

tiaiiqwM
aiNMHer
SCOTCH
WHISKY
Born 1820 -
Stillgoing Strong
M.
m
?//,.
Y,
y
U\
y
N
£0
a
, m
y/i
Vs.
T^Jt
a>
*> J
V- I
w
ss
«o
>.. ?*JSK9
A
/C
r£>.
m f .
i :St
•s?s;/:
S8&&i
IY.
ft
..
£
\Va
/
yyyyi
Li
,;i
•»
'..Vfe
>£f\.>.; \V* •r'V.'/VrW
.»•» ✓ i-t-’* ;A*k*
v*
?$: YYO’.*?®
i>.‘. •/,i?ri'2s
j>/\
r.l_ -,H^'
m'-.
fe;
X'J Y‘||- V
iv-Yo ;<
MS: r
Sfi
t*»S
‘iwZ-V
m
HIGHEST EXHIBITION AWARDS
’Dn£Y I860. MUPO- lWN ' .. MA1C » *"
■W
n.fl.S lM>
SY0N1Y I860. Mtie ■*»■
• OtlAlOt IBS' ”“’
*'M8t»tcr .»« •«'»•*"'" 0UAl ,TV
«o«u> _.
THE LARGEST SALES IN THE WORLD
:
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock.
The Bulletin
lYkdi wirtL'tfci Urtfr&c P fis.
Vol. 52.—No. 2689.
Wednesday, August 26, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/"'SUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON _
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 , Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address . .
S.B. 231
LTYSAGHT7
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
KEEP YOUR THROAT HEALTHY
BY REGULARLY USING
6
T L
Universally recognised as a pleasant, safe,
and efficient remedy for all affections of
the throat, chest and lungs, and carrying
the endorsement of the medical profession
for over 40 years.
Large Tilts, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bav Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual ‘ results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of. men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 119,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Jdpnter Street.
Londpn Office: 47 Fleet Street.
There’s a Market for Your
Goods in Australia’s
Great Granary.
Primary production is forging ahead
in Western Australia, and
34%
of the wheat exported is grown in
the Golden West.
Export wheat for the season to date, com-
pared . with the corresponding period of the
previous two is
1928-29.
Bushels.
Vic. .. 22.730,905
N.S.W.. . 17,072,210
S.A. .. 10,799,004
W.A. .. 21,477,623
as follows:
1929-30. 1930-31.
Bushels. Bushels.
912,593 24,946,469
417,010 28,302,203
.8,871,715 17,342,181
22,269,613 36,342,477
Totals . . 72,079,748 32,470,931 106,933,330
National advertisers reach this
prosperous market by using the
PERTH
THE WEEKLY WITH THE CIRCULATION
OF A DAILY PAPER.
Sydney Representative —
Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Angel Place. ’Phone: 82323.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
22 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.'
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Movies
Ahab Muldoon’s comment on a current
bad talkie was short and explosive. H don’t
know why there should be so much fuss
about the Yanks having all the movies,” he
said. “They ought to have ’em!” That
they have their share is made clear enough
by some figures in the latest volume of
Dent’s capital Everyman’s Encyclopaedia
(ss. 6d. net, but Heaven knows how much
here when the duties have all been clapped
on). It is stated that studio property at
Hollywood has the value of 58,000.000
dollars; that the total movie investment
in the United States is said to be 2000
million dollars, of which 500 millions was
spent in equipping cinemas with sound
apparatus; that, the motion-picture houses
in Dollarland number 22,731, with a seating
capacity of 11,000.000; and that last year
the average weekly attendance in American
cinemas was 115,000,000, while the whole
p>opulatiop of U.S.A. was 122,775,046. Now
the statistically-minded can sharpen half a
dozen pencils and have a night’s amuse-
ment.
The Movie People
The hub of the hurdy-gurdy outlined
above has attracted many observers, but,
apart from Rice’s Voyage to Purilla, few
have pricked it with so sharp a pen as that
wielded in Jan and Cora Gordon’s Star-
dusjb in Hollywood (Harrap; Roy croft;
205.). The industrious travellers give a
complete and particular view of the Holly-
woodens at home, from the vast encamp-
ment of the 20,000 breadline supers
to the shooting of close-ups, with intima-
cies about the lives of the stars and other
engaging aspects of the hectic scenery.
The gem, for me, of this diverting book is
Tom Mix’s speech to the ladies of the
Friday Morning Club, and its sequel. Here
is Tom as the she-man:—•
“Ladies,” said Mr. Mix. “I am sure proud of
what my manager has been able to tell you about
me. but it is no more than the'truth. I never did
smoke a cigarette in my life, and I’m never going
to. And I tell you here that if for the purposes
of my work I have to seem to smoke a cigarette
in my films I alius uses a medicated kind that don’t
contain one speck of tobacco....
“Now, ladies, I got to approach a subject which
I’m questioned about quite a lot: My attitude to-
wards prohibition. Well, ladies, all I have to say
is that I’m a good American citizen. I think that
says a whole lot, for it means that in my opinion
a good American citizen keeps laws. If they make
laws for my country, I feel as it’s up to me to
obey them laws. So I don’t drink nothing ’tall.
....So, ladies, you can take it straight from me
that even if I goes to Yurrup I don’t never let a
drop of fermented licker pass my lips....
“Several years ago m’wife and I figured to quit
the pictures, and with what we’d got we’d buy a
ranch somewheres and settle down good. But one
day, ladies, as I was going along the street, I came
to a cinema palace where they was giving one of
my films. And, ladies, there was a line of young
boys standing outside of that movie house waiting to
get in so’s to see me. And as I came along the
road them boys sees who I am....and they sav to
each other: ‘See who that is? Why, that’s Tom
Mix, our hero.’
“Then I realises, ladies, that God has given me
a task to do in this life. I realised, ladies, asf
l never realised before, that I was the ideal of
young American boyhood. I realised that young
America had, so to speak, grown up under my
shadder. And I goes home to the wife, and I says: :
*We can’t quit like we was planning to do. I got
my dooty to do to young America, and as long
as God gives me health and strength to carry on
I’m going to do it.”
And here is the reverse of the noble
medallion:—
a few weeks later,.. .Mr. Mix was hauled
before the Courts for “plugging” a girl dancer in
the eye at a booze-partv. Before the Court Mr.
Mix did not present so heroic a figure. He no longer
seemed to be the ideal of young American bovhood.
In the box he protested that he was not a' rough
character at all, but an actor, and' that, in spite
of his film heroics, he had never exchanged an angry
blow in his life. The damages claimed* Were large,
and Mr. Mix was ready to swear that he was a
person of very little natural courage, psychologically
incapable of “plugging” a woman in the eve. . .’.
There is a saying in America: “You can’t condemn
a. million dollars.” Mr. Mix was acquitted.
Those who resent this picturing of Tom
may be pleased to find Jan and Cora as
discredited as they are in this sublime foot-
note :
Oddly enough the Australian bushmen take the
movies as dead reality, and follow with passionate
sympathy from one film to another the extraordinary
ups and downs of well-known movie-actors. “Poor
fellow!” they say. “He’s lost all his money again.
What bad luck these people do have.”
Comment upon which would possibly be a
little superfluous.
Wolfe’s Poetry
To move' from that, delectable coun-
try, Humbert Wolfe has issued a new
volume of poems, Snoiv (Gollancz; Roy-
croft; 10s. 6d.). Those who know Wolfe
for the dazzling poet lie is will need no
better news than that (his new volume is
available. But among others—book people,
too. of my own personal experience—there is
a tendency to
bracket Wolfe with
the Sitwell chorus
and other fancies of
the bogie-builders,
as not understand-
able, or at/ any
rate difficult. I find things here and there
among some of these bogifes that I do not
understand, but then I don’t believe the
bogies understand them either. In any
case, Wolfe is not of that order. If his
poetic statement is not clear and coherent
such qualities do not exist in poetry. Here
one example must suffice. It calls for neither
title nor the initial" capitals wbich Wolfe,
almost alone among the dispensers, makes
to appear better dropped:—
We have no tears, who are the source of weeping,
■and what is laughter to us, whose laughter first
of laughter woke in the man the sweet Unsleeping
hunger and thirst ?
We are the words the poets hear and fail of,
we are the note beyond the fiddle’s cry,
we for all lovers of beauty are a tale of
beauty that passes by.
We walk with the wind’s feet, and do not rest,
we walk between the leaves in the high meadows,
our hair with their green wings of light, our breast
stained with the soft green shadows.
Fleeter than the heart’s desire, one by one
we leave delights that are well spoken of,
and far behind us echo, as we run,
the tired feet of love.
That, to me at least, is magical use of
words, and what else is poetry? Amazing
that its author also writes most stumbling
prose.
The New Williamson
The very opposite of Wolfe’s stumbles
in prose is the prose of Henry Williamson’s
The Dream of Fair Women (Faber and
Faber; 7s. 6d. net). This novel, inserted,
as a kind of afterthought, before The
Pathway, completes the tetralogy which
Williamson has called The Flax of Dream.
Maddison, who etherealises love with Mary
Ogilvie in The Pathway, here worries
through an adulterous love with Mrs. Fair-
fax. The novel is in three parts,; the first
and third so finely done as to excuse the
dulness of the middle part. It does not add
much. to the character of Maddison, and
what it does is not to the advantage of that
picturesque but unsatisfactory figure. For an
idealist—one, as Williamson says, wdiose
thought and utterance are “peculiarly
directed against those ideas which he be-
lieved to despoil human life”—Maddison
is oddly hypocritical in this adulterous
loving; and hypocrisy in a prophet is not
the most convincing touch imaginable. A
result is that he does not live here as he
does in the closing volume, and, what is
worse, the lifelessness spreads to a number
of his contacts. The complete Flax of
Dream is a notable addition to contempo-
rary fiction; but whether Maddison has the
vitality to keep that large, and in many
places supremely lovely, work alive _seems
a little doubtful.
RED PAGE.
Is Gilbert and Sullivan Funny?
“Theatrical Iconoclast.” in the Sundry
Shows page, said “No!” He added emphati-
cally: “In fact, it is rather dull. If the
leading comedian has to work so hard to
get his laughs, surely he must have very
poor material to work on'.” That rather
postulates infallibility in leading comedians,;
but let it go. Then: “Personally, the humor
did not strike me as being a comment on
any life we know at all, and in that sense
wasn’t a patch on Stiffy and Mo.,
though no doubt when it was written it was
quite as good as, if not'better than, Stiffy
and Mo.” He was speaking of “The Pirates
of Penzance” in particular, though at G. and
S. in general. “The Pirates” is not the best
of the operas by a long way, but it mav
serve.
For a start, what ground does it offer
for the accusation that it is topical of its
day (1880)? That Queen Victoria is
the monarch and that 1940 is a distant date;
nothing else, except a minor art reference.
About all “Theatrical Iconoclast” has to
do is read “our gracious King” into the
script, as they do in the Anthem, and call
1940 1980, which won’t interfere with the
rhyme. The truth is that the whole of
Gilbert, operas, Bab Ballads and all, can. be
read through without need of a note, though
no doubt if ever they become as old as Aris-
tophanes, w r hich is perhaps unlikely, they
will call for as many signposts as he does.
So far they are as current as shillings, and
don’t seem to have deteriorated quite so
much. Almost everything thrust at abides
in human nature—pomps and false senti-
ment, hero-worship heroics, snobbery
and hobnobbery.
But that they must be disappointed who
go to a G. and S. show expecting to crack
their ribs is not outside the nature of things.
Gilbert’s humor, which in the woof is a
( Red, Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—
Always at Anthony Horderns’.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony Horderns’
PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY
better jtncti
n
'SCMJTCH
i«nt m t. • i * j .
\ 1
1
I
<ilSs
\ "iowa*
•U**. i
r x ■
'M -
**vr'
Patent “Scrutch
Galvanised
Barbed Wire - -
CWT.
Saves at least 20 p.c. on wire, and about 40 p.c. on freight and team
charges.
It is made of high-quality steel, has short, sharp and strong barbs,
and takes an equal strain on both wires.
1 cwt. of 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch,” measuring about 810 yards.
1 cwt. of “Patent Scrutch,” measuring about 610 yards.
1 cwt. of 12-gauge “Ordinary” Barb, measuring about 450 yards.
1 mile 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch,” weighing approximately 2cwt.
Oqr. 191 b.
1 mile 125-gauge “Patent Scrutch,” . weighing approximately 2cwt.
3qr. 1 51b.
1 mile 12-gauge "Ordinary,” weighing approximately 3cwt. 3qr. 181 b.
1 ton 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch,” measuring about 9 miles 360 yards.
1 ton 125-gauge “Patent Scrutch,” measuring about 6 miles 1640
yards.
1 ton 12-gauge “Ordinary,” only measuring about 5 miles 200 yards.
“Patent Scrutch" £26 per ton; 27/- cwt.
14-gauge “Patent Scrutch” £27/5/- per ton; 28/- cwt.
“Iowa” Galvanised Barbed Wire
GALVANISED BARBED WIRE “IOWA” pat-
14
tern, close set.
Gauges 12
Approximate lengths per cwt. —
460
Prices £ 23/6/6 £24/8/3 ton
Prices 24/-' 25/- cwt.
1 Special . . £24/7/9 ton 25/- cwt.
1 4-g. Special . . £25/9/6 ton 26/- cwt.
12-g. Barbed, j-cwt. coils 12/9
CWT.
Super Steel Fencing Wire
STEEL FENCING WIRE- —prepared from best-
•10
quality steel.
Gauges 6 8
CWT.
Lasco Galvanised
Fencing Wire - - -
CWT.
“LASCO” Galvanised High Strain OVAL STEEL Fencing Wire.
This wire is prepared from chosen steel; and by special tempering
processes guarantees the greatest possible strength allied with light-
ness, suppleness and absolute reliability.
"Lasco” Wire will not sag, always remains tight, minimising cost of
maintenance, and is the last word in fencing wire.
The figures in the following table demonstrate clearly the enormous
saving as compared with ordinary wire.
Breaking strain. Length, cwt.
“Lasco” Galvanised Wire, 10x12 gauge . . 21401 b. 1060yds.
Ordinary Galvanised Wire, 8-gauge I 1261 b. 546yds.
1 mile “Lasco” Galvanised Wire, 10 x 12 g., weighs 1 cwt. 2qr. 181 b.
1 mile Ordinary Galvanised Wire, 8-gauge, weighs 3cwt. Oqr. 251 b.
1 ton “Lasco” Galvanised Wire, 10 x 12 g., measures 1 2 miles 80yds.
1 ton Ordinary Galvanised Wire, 8-g., measures only 6 miles 360yds.
“Lasco” 10x12 gauge £36/10/- per ton; 37/6 cwt.
Dept., Ground Floor. Delivered to Rail or Wharf Free.
Best Patent Galvanised
WIRE NETTING
This Price List can be relied on as giving correct particulars of gauge
of wire, size of mesh, and width of netting.
Other sizes can be made to order, if required.
EACH ROLL CONTAINS 50 YARDS.
SOLD BY THE ROLL ONLY—Each roll contains 50 yards.
Quality
Mesh
Width, 24 inches
Width, 36 inches
Width, 48 inches
Width, 60 inches
Width, 72 inches
I f in.x I 7
55/-
66/3
Strong
2in.x 1 7
15/3
20/6
27/6
34/3
41/-
Medium
3in.x 1 6
13/9
19/-
25/-
Strong
3in.x 1 4
19/9
27/-
36/-
Medium
4in.x 1 6
11/3
15/-
20/-
Strong
4in.xl 4
16/6
22/-
29/6
Lengths of a dozen yards, or longer lengths, less than a roll, at lower
prices than quoted for a single yard.
Special Quotations will be furnished for other sizes not shown.
Steel Fencing Staples
GALVANISED STEEL FENCING STAPLES.
Inches fxl 4tx 14-Ixl2 Ixlo 4x9 4xB 2xB
Per cwt. 38/6 38/6 31/3 29/- 27/9 26/3 26/3
Per lb. sd. sd. sd. 4d. 4d. 4d. 4d.
sd
Reliable Wire Strainers
fd
2 in 1 12/6 each “Suregrip’
Walker’s 7d. ea., 5/9 doz. Pointer . .
DONALD’S ...
Extra Segments
Extra Jaws . . .
Extra Hammers
’ 17/6 ea.
5/6 ea.
24/6 each
2/9 each
5/3 each
3/9 each
Quality Wire Nails
Gauges
Per cwt.
71b. pkt.
Per lb.
Gauges
Per cwt.
71b. pkt.
Per lb.
sfd
ALL PRICES SUBJECT TO MARKET FLUCTUATIONS
sf
ANTHONY HORDERN 8c SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


Does your mirror say:
%
n«
UYVI
?
#
Read how others succeeded in building up
their health again by taking Sanatogen.
. I was beginning to get mentally
flabby, to hate the very thought of
work, when I struck Sanatogen.
For the first week I perceived no
difference, but from the end of the
second week I began to pick up.
Since then I have gained strength
rapidly.”
MR. EDGAR N. DUFFIELD, of “Golfing.”
. . . . My husband used to come
home from work utterly tired out —
sometimes too tired to eat. Now,
after taking Sanatogen, he is ever so
much brighter in himself. Even after
the first dose of Sanatogen he noticed
the difference. He is not nearly so
tired—and his appetite has certainly
increased.”
MRS. M. O. EASTERBROOK, BECKENHAM.
■fa
\
'///
//A
i
Revitalize your nerves
with
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
Take Sanatogen to build up a
reserve of bodily and nervous
strength ! Take Sanatogen, and
you will forget what nerve weak-
ness means for it will restore
you to sound, lasting health.
Sanatogen provides the muscles,
nerves and blood with exactly
the right proportion of glycero-
phosphate and albumin that the
run-down system needs. Sanatogen
gives you new strength and vitality
to conquer all forms of nerve
weakness: loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and general debility.
More than 24,000 physicians all
over the world have written
recommending Sanatogen as an
ideal nerve - strengthening food.
Why then should you not give
Sanatogen a trial ?
Go to your
Chemist to-day.
fi
He sells
Sanatogen
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do good to the whole of your family.
Sanatogen builds healthy, happy home life by conquering nervousness.


m.
• 7//^
%
%
•'>
s
%
XV
■
g&iS
K
09
Gt\
U
09? u
>N
v
/
#
i
\
Spend, a Wonderful
Holiday in the
New Zealand Alps
SEE Franz Josef, the Fox, the
Tasman and other Glacier
Giants in their setting of magnifi-
cent Native bush. Go South to the
peaceful loveliness and grandeur of
the Lake District. . . Queenstown
on Lake Wakatipu . . . and on to
Paradise. Travel North ... to the
weird fascination of Rotorua's
Thermal Region ... to Waitomo the
Wonderful ... and down the lovely
Wanganui River. Come and revel
in the luxurious hospitality of the
Chateau Tongariro. Leave your
worries behind . . . and enjoy this
great holiday.
A 2
TheN.Z- Government Tourist
Bureau will arrange every
detail for you. Ask at their
nearest office for booklets,
fares, etc.
GOVERNMENT
OURBST BUREAU
( AND AIX TRAVEL ACENCIES)
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.) Sydney.
59 William' Street, Melbourne
delicate matter of exquisite rhyme and fan-
tastic nuances of metre, and m the weave
is nonsense, a standing-on-the-head view o
things, has not the wide appeal or red-nose
and fallabout.
Here’s good luck to Frederic’s ventures!
Frederic’s out of his indentures,
may not be half so funny as a judiciously
exploded “Cripes!” At any rate, the gen-
eral run of people can see nothing very
funny in the idea of being indentured
to piracy. Indeed, the whole idea ot
“The Pirates,” which in turn is the whole
word Gilbertian, does not conform to any
very popular acceptance of what is funny.
As far as funniness goes the best thing
on the Sydney boards at the time of writing
is a woebegone spectacle at the Royal.
There is nothing subtle about him; it is
all broad lines. He just stands, a victim
of circumstance, and a synod would laugh
at him. The difference is ,the very wide,
one between wit and broad humor. Gilbert
uses both, in this opera and elsewhere, and
it is, as ever, the broad humor which gets
the laughs:—
' King of the Vi rates: “No, Frederic, it cannot be.
I don’t think much of our profession, but, contrasted
with respectability, it is comparatively honest.”
Or:—
Fred: “Compared with other women, are you
beautiful?”
Ruth ( bashfully ): “I have been told so, dear
master.”
Fred: “Ah, but lately?”
Or Frederic’s reference to the General sit-
ting about in the draughty ruins—these are
the laughgetters. And even they are in-
comparably more subtle than the innuen-
does of Mo, the fallabout of Syd Beck or
the goat-acting of Gus Bluett. But because
of the general unpopularity of both satire
and nonsense, more than not would agree,
despite such laugh-lines, that there is noth-
jngwery funny in G. and S.
important aspect--emerges. It
/has been indicated in Sundry Shows already
"that in G. and S. opera you hear a great
deal of 5.,, who was a cheerful sentimental-
ist, and very little off G., who only wrote
the words. You hear- G. clearly enough
in'those prose passages, but Gilbert, like
many another poet, wrote prose indiffer-
ently. In it he got as near as he could get
to swinging the slapstick, and it is usually
a tortuous and most!)' an unreal language.
But to say that this shows hetisn’t funny is,
like judging Humbert Wolfe% poetry on the
strength of his even’'more lamentable prose.
This is the trap for “Theatrical Icono-
clasts”—that the human voice seems incap-
able of lifting itself in song without drown-
ing the sense of words in a flood of Wow-el
liquids, sibilants and the like, not to men-
tion the moisture of musical interjection.
Gilbert solos come off comparatively well,
though more often than not it takes a good
memory rather than-an acute- car to follow
even them. Choruses are hopeless. .They
sound all right, but they don’t sense.
So “Theatrical Iconoclast’’ is 1 proven-right
in answering with his emphatic “No!” the
question “Is Gilbert and Sullivan funny?”
Gilbert and Sullivan, as presented, is not
funny. It is charming, blithe, lilting and all
that; not funny. No Gilbert and Sullivan
addict expects it” to be. He goes to it t’o
smile, perhaps, but not to burst his braces.
If* you laughed at “In short, when I’ve
a of elemental strategy, you’ll
say a better majoiygenerdi has never sat a
gee,” or “and indulge in the felicity of un-
bounded domesticity”—if you laughed at any
such things, or the rhymes, or.the astonishing
twists of metre, yorrtwould run much more
risk of being kicked out than if,-as “Theatri-
cal Iconoclast” suggested, you stood up and
cried, “This isn’t very‘funny. In fact, it is
rather dull.” Rightly-so. No-one accepts
Gilbert and Sullivan as very funny, and I
don’t think anyone ever did. This is not a
new version we are given, but a traditional
rendering. And it is a serious entertainment,
notwithstanding its light and lilt. Even if
actors had the intelligence to appreciate
Gilbertianisms, and played, metaphorically
speaking, as he wrote, on their heads, Sulli-
van’s airy sentimentalism, plus that inability
of any chorus of 30 voices to be articulate,
would always defeat Gilbert. Nobody goes >
to a Gilbert' and Sullivan opera’to hear
Gilbert ; everyone goes to hear Gilbert and
Sullivan, which is vastly different.
And in every way it is an admirable
institution. Better in music, color and
( paradoxically) life and plot than all the
light musical melodrama which it would
satirise. It has a virtue above all these.
It takes Gilbei-t alone down from the shelf,
and I* should think there, have been divorces
less happy. > Alone, Gilbert is not so much
funny as a stead)' riot. I should hate to read
“Rose Marie” twice. But I should hate more
to think I was never to read Gilbert again.
CECIL MANN.
Commercialising Literature
Recent comment in The Bulletin on the
faking of Melville’s Moby Dick into a
movie with sex appeal comes as something
long overdue. The relation between such
a film drama and the original literary
masterpiece is of the slightest, but the result
is to disguise the real qualities of Moby
Dick for ever. Such, though, is the usual
method of conversion. Books like Schnitz-
•er’s Anatol, Hardy’s Tess, even Moby Dick
itself, have for years been used as the basis
for films. “How much of the original work
is kept?” someone asks. “They keep the
name; that’s what they paid for.” comes the
answer.
Perhaps it will soon be the general custom
t.o-write plays specially for the films, since
a definite technique is needed. In that case,
the depredation of well-known masterpieces
will cease. Already, as has been pointed out,
too much harm has been done. Still, the
protest that it stirs might do the service
of sending some of us back to Moby Dick.
N.P.
A Satchel of Books
Strange Bedfellows, by Andrew Soutar
(Hutchinson; 7s. 6d. net). Light and happy
adventuring in Southern England with im-
poverished aristocrats who are seeking for-
tune in a caravan under the guidance of
son Reginald and his pushful American bride.
It is cheery going, warranted to remove
a couple of hours from anyone’s existence
without undue pain.
Portrait of an Airman, by Philip Arnall
(Bodley Head; 7s. 6d. net). One of those
allegedly realistic war books in which
writers of no talent seek to emulate
Remarque and succeed in contriving only a
stew of nastiness. The experiences of Stephen
Sloan would have tried even the talent of a
genius to lift them above the commonplace.
Here they are merely dull.
The Magic Billabong, by T. E. Grattan-
Smith (Sands). A charming tiny-tots’ story-
book, with Platypus, Lyrebird and other good
Australians taking part in the adventures.
The book is remarkable in having a purpose
—to encourage the young people in being
friendly towards bush creatures and flowers.
There are fetching illustrations by Edgar
Holloway, and the production altogether in-
dicates that this side of the book trade, at
least, might well be attended to in Australia.
From In Old Toledo i, by G. M. Mason
(Hutchinsdn; 7s. 6d. net):—
The boy shuddered. He lifted dazed eyes to the
other’s face.
Luis shivered. “It is horrible—it is horrible”
he whispered under his breath.
Brother Qipriano laughed softly. “I—l have been
a soldier. Jesu Maria—l have seen such horrors in
the Low Countries as would make your blood run
cold.”
That kind of thing for 300-and-odd pages.
The period is the sixteenth century.
Effective; After-dinner Speaking, by J. F.
Finn - (Chapman and H’all; ss. net). After
going into the* origins of his topic and pin-
ning down the more obvious faults of the
average after-dinner speaker,, the writer gives
advice, illustrations and examples calculated
to teach the doubtful art to anyone capable
of learning it. Finn dedicates the book to
Michael Joseph, and in it and others he
does for prospective, speakers what Joseph
has done for would-be writers.
The Classic Races of the Turf, by Guy B.
Logan (Stanley Paul; 21s. net). An em-
bracing history of the five English, “classics”
from their beginnings, when they were mostly
matches in which any gentleman riders who
happened to be about would join in and come
home with the contestants.’ (Abe writer has
aimed more at accuracy than general enter-
tainment, but permits a little apocrypha and
brief mention of the more notorious instances
of pulling, accidental wins and the like.
Horsey readers will find it first-class stuff.
In The Murder at the Sixth Hole
(Methuen; 3s. 6d. net) David Frome makes
effective use of-Wilkie Collins’s old device of
letting - the chief characters describe the
events as they saw them. The problem is:
How>. did the body of Martin Green come
to.be in the worst water-hazard of the South
Forest Golf Course, He was the kind of man
anyone might have murdered, and it is not
till Major Lewis —a remarkably brainy and
agreeable Englishman, considering this is an
American book —takes a hand that the
mystery is solved. In addition to being an
ingenious crime yarn, this novel has some
charming pictures of American country life.
And a Little Verse
THE BIRDS.
The red bird came at even fall
With yellow wings and eyes of flame;
It climbed the fig-tree guarded wall;
It vanished.... and the grey birds came,
The birds of dusk on noiseless wing
That song of stars and twilight sing.
When they were gone the black birds came,
Great vultures these with pinions dark;
They swooped upon the garden walks
And blotted out each fiery spark
From Night’s bright forge. And so the
storm
Came down like bees in thundery swarm.
When midnight trysted with the town,
A velvet-footed, breathless ghost,
The silver bird hung on the sky,
The magic bird I love the most:
Bird of the moon whose feathers shone,
Whose coming is a benison.
QUEENSLAND,
M. FORREST.
THE ACADEMICS.
The Academics have their .standards pat.
The thing reputed beautiful’s their
measure,
And up against it they bring this or that,
And does it well conform it is a treasure.
But is it not shaped so or fashioned thus,
“Away,” they cry, “this thing is not for us.”
And when the new-come master shows his
‘ ware.
They bring not to the judging joy or pain:
Singer, painter, writer, they compare
Him with the long-accepted; and explain
How his note, color, wording should be; and
forget
That master never was as bygone master yet.
And shameful for them is a live desire;
And swift to be slain is every natural
yearning;
Each life-impulse become enfeebled fire
Beneath the weighted majesty of learning.
They live, ape-mimicked beauty weighing,
buying,
And ever the new-come beautiful denying.
Oh. mighty sun, pouring forth living gold
On all the little subject-planets flighting!
If you had eyes, and yet could not behold
Their gold was given to them by your
lighting,
You would be like those book-wise people
who
With life-forgetting eyes would beauty woo.
N.S.W.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.M.L.: Present limit is about 4000 words.
. ...0.A.M.: You must' get it into one-fifth that
space... .Tarwoona: Undistinguished ramblings over
a lot of good foolscap... .E.M.: He tells a dismal
tale H.H.: Capital spirit in “The Flying Ace,”
but the rhymes are a bit wild... . J.S.D.: Leave the
visual glimpses to the water-colorists. Poetry needs
to say something out of itself... .M.C.: Youngish;
but not bad practice... .A.W.: Good feeling, though
you’re right about the verse W.F.: The address
to the landlady is not without anguish. .. .A Sailor:
Subjects rather poor, but treatment quite good in
a rough and ready way. Nothing at all to be
ashamed 0f... -W.J.S.: Not impelled to accept
“Fate”.... Ground F.: “If this is not to your
peculiar liking, you know what to do with it.”
Is that altogether polite?... .J.M.0.: Has the modest
virtues you claim for it, and more. You ought
to do better... .R. 8.: “The magic ring of mush-
rooms at the closing of the day” is an entirely
new touch in bush verse. .. .W.G.: An idea in every
one of them, but would need better handling....
R.8.L.: Admire its sincerity, but you’re scarcely
a poet... .C.A.E.: Not interested in the size of
Nellie’s feet.... G.M.: You describe directly. The
poet’s business is to convey emotionally... .M.P.:
A ticklish question:—
Why
not have all Mr. Lawson
Poems and verse
on talking-record recitals
plant
all colonial wild bush flowers
around
his statute and have them
trimmed and cut
by the domain gardeners
now
we want a statute of Miss
Nellie Stewart
in the gardens is the
place for her statute
is this poem of mine suitable
to be paid for?
. ...B-A-A: Not much there... .0.T.G.: “Rum
and Romance” reads more like milk and molasses.
. ...E.J.D.: No plums here for your fruit-pickers.
. ... J.H.: Not as interesting as you are capable of
making it. .. .T. 5.8.: Found the Chinatown larrikin
a washout.... J.W.: Dreary... .E.J.L.: Crude melo-
drama. .. . J.L.: Calls for better treatment... .5.11. C.:
Shows thought but fails in the handling... .J.W.8.:
An English paper would possibly eat it up. and yell
for more... .D.R.L.: Soon gave up trying to get
interested in the man who gave up drinking....
A. : The book had all the space available some
weeks ago 0.F.: Y r es; but not worth all that....
C.G.R.H.: Some of the rhymes are too obviously
dragged ,in.. . .M,A.: Not much like Jackie talks.
... .M. 1.: Thirinish. ...Nan de Warre: One of those
just-description verses— . A.R.Q.: Some pretty
alliteration; it -doesn’t convey sincere feeling....
B. : You don’t get far in .either... .M.T.: No-
thing there. . .R.LL: Moderately good. It‘would
need to be extraordinarily g. to eat up that space.
. ..VH.A.L. : , Topie turned out for a 5pe11.... Pen-
warden: But anyone who wanted to know' it knew
all : that Caruso lore long ago. ...S.J.: Philosophy
doesn’t manage to emerge as poetry.... Coop: You
have a knack of making words look remarkably like
w00d... .C.L.A.: The second stanza nearly got it
in. Go over the first....?: “The Farmer’s Wife
Pawns Her Dearest Treasure’’ doesn’t live up to
its promising title... .D. 8.: The train verse is the
better, but it doesn’t quite capture the market....
R.W.P.: No; but it is decidedly promising stuff.
Try some more, and make it shorter... .J.E.F.:
Not a very virile “Youth”.... ILL.: No, we suppose
Tiib Bulletin' doesn’t really care much “what the
weather is like in a Westralian orchard on a winter’s
day”; but it would turn handsprings on finding-
somebody who could convey the picture.. . .1.J.:
Trouble with villantiles and the like is that they're
more often nice exercises than poems. . . . E.A.S.: Polish
and submit again... . J.D.: What’s Tom —Cousin Jack
or Geordie?... .B.II.: Fair idea, execution clumsy.
.... E.U.W.: The climax left us still waiting....
A. 8.: On the artificial side... .P.W.: The revolt of
the henpecked husband has been staged too often.
.. . .E.H.S.: A dialect yarn must be funny in itself
to pass... .A.G.: Schoolboyish... .A.N.M.: Mere
scratching of old ground... .A.8.G.: Our crowded
clothes-line can’t hold the lady... .R. J.D.: Tame
parable... .E.W.F.: The ghost is now securely
chained to the w.p.b N.M.: Gory hunk of bathos.
.. . .E.K.P.: Highly improbable. .. .11.5. D.: The pug-
nacious storekeeper threw the towel in after a feeble
scrap... .M. 8.8.: Sincerely written, but hackneyed
and slight.... C.W.: A mild puff... ■ J.W.D.: A wet
finish... .C.E.G.C.: Not a chuckle. .. .G.M.D.: It had
its day around about 1920.. ..J.W.8.: No shelter
for “The Man in the Street”... .C.M.E.: Under-
weight... .S.T.W.: Just slung together... .G.Y.:
Has pretty well every fault a story could have.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.D.: Interested to hear it is a collaboration. One
supplied the wood and the other the cross-cut saw ?
. ...J.V.: Your supply of drawing paper ran out.
Thus is the wind tempered, etc M.A.M.: Joke too
weak to carry the drawing... .R.J.: None up, all
show promise.. . .E.P.: Why give all your characters
a list to starboard ?.... D.P.: Less lines and a
smoother finish... .T.S.: Can’t decide whether it’s a
tiger-snake or a garden hose... .N.C.: Searely worth
while to squeeze all those females in.... A. 11.:
Indian ink, Bristol board and any pen that will
make clean, firm lines... .L.J.A.: Don’t think it
matters what you use C.S.: Too trifling....
F.W.: You handle the pen more expertly than the
brush J.M.: There are grey hairs beneath the
dye on your joke. .. .H.F.H.: Untidy lines, and
wheezy old gag... .N.S.N.: Fancy that drunk joke
was first circulated among the members of the
N.S.W. Rum Corps... .5.W.8.: Don’t send a dozen
poor ones in the hope that the least poor will be
taken. Set out to do a couple of good ones. .. .
T.K.: “I spend all my time fishing or drawing.”
We wish you good luck with the fishing H.T.L.:
Scorfield beat you to it by three months... .E.D.:
Calamitous... .J.E.T.: No imitations, thanks....
W. 8.: Foggy... .M.S.: Du 11... .C.R.: Very splintery.
. ...D.M.C.: Not bad poses, but harsh penwork....
W.M.P.: So we said that a year ago ? Well, we
stick to what we said.


i
Ml
19
*
V
V
it
. ..
msn^\
m k
/
HI
1
-
BM
as ■"
m.
mBMBm
m
:: '~r \
dM
H
icsa
:
:•■••■■■
m
S 3
a
. . j
■
mm
■ 1 : - ■,'
*\%n>vv*> >5nS
.*/. .* j
- -V’’ I
L2.-418
mmm
E
trjagagsrsss:
■
, H ■■
I ■
>■ '
:
,;T
■
-
.
H
HSPPMIii
mm^zmrn
, t - ■?ss£• ;
” . ' ‘I,, • ‘: ■ - 1 v*« ;■•
. ,«■
SSE"" 'TtSSS » ‘*- 5 -
'• “ .1? W«P
i/l


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2689.
August 26, 1931.
TROUBLE ALL ROUND.
AUSTRALIA: “Buck up, Dad....and don’t worry about me! I didn’t fail you when you were in a tight place before; and you shan’t be ashamed of me now!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2V t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2S!) Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 5d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE
WORLD?
Two years ago, when the clouds began to
close in, Australia had an uneasy feeling
that it alone had struck great trouble. Since
then it has been made plain that, although
we have to face’ the particular difficulties
which afflict debtor countries depending
upon primary products to pay their foreign
charges, every nation, debtor and creditor
alike, is in the trough of a depression. r i here
must be a general cause. What is it?
When prices are rising business is brisk.
Manufacturers and merchants, believing
that they can make things and sell things
at a profit, get busy. To do this they must
have money or the credit which is based on
money; and of the two the credit is the
more important. During the war it was
employed as it never had been before. Aus-
tralia, for example, provided its Government
with loans of a size which previously would
nave been regarded as impossible. Public men
who had thought and talked in thousands
got into the habit of thinking and talking
in millions. The money was spent almost as
freely as it was borrowed. After the war
the habit persisted. Mr. Hughes threw
millions around in a Diggers’ cash bonus.
More millions were spent on “repatriation.”
Land was bought at prices winch didn’t
matter and cut up in farms for soldier-
settlers. What happened in Australia hap-
pened more or less in every country.
Under the influence of this prodxgious bor-
rowing and the flinging around of hundreds
of millions, the world went through such a
period of inflation as it had never experi-
enced before. Inevitably there came a time
when men began to doubt whether the
bubble could be sustained. Were the bor-
rowers putting the money into things which
could earn interest upon the debt? Finan-
ciers turned to national budgets; for these
showed whether interest was being merely
added to the debt. Wherever it was found
that this was happening—as in Australia—
loans were soon hard to get. The period of
inflation for that country was over.
The immediate effect was a tendency on
the part of prices to fall. Manufacturers
and merchants with large stocks realised
that the old rate of profit could not be made
on a falling market. They proceeded,
therefore, to unload as quickly as they
could; and the harder they pressed business,
the further prices fell. Credit began to
dry up: banks were not willing to risk
their funds—mostly other people’s money
for which they were responsible—in financ-
ing transactions which threatened to show
a loss. As credit dried up, so did industry
and commerce. That meant unemployment.
Meantime other factors were at work. The
war had emphasised the importance of the
man; and “the worker” found it easier to
win political power than ever he had done
before. In Britain the first Labor Ministry
arrived. On the assumption that the war
was responsible for unemployment and dis-
tress, the dole was established as a national
institution. In past times an attempt would
have been made to meet the fall in prices by
cuts in wages. Now this was resisted;
instead, taxation was increased. In any case,
so far as Britain and other great exporter
of manufactured goods were concerned, the
foreign market had wilted: Australia alone,
a mere atom, last year took 100 millions less
of other countries’ wares than it had done
a few years earlier. The purchasing capacity
of the war-impoverished Eurooean nations
fell enormously. On the other hand, during
the years of high prices and easy credits for
development and the purchase of machinery
there had been a huge increase in primary
production. Caught between the two —
shrunken markets and bloated outputs—
the price of every primary product crashed;
not only our own, but those of every
country.
The history of the trade and industiy of
the world for the last 150 years at least has
been a history of waves of boom and depres-
sion. In general the world has shown great
resiliency: depressions have been met by
rigid economy, low prices have been fol-
lowed by low wages and heavier purchases
on the part of those still left with means,
confidence has been restored, credit re-
established and prosperity quickly regained.
This time, however, three obstacles block
what had hitherto seemed this natural road
to recovery: (1) The new political power
of labor, standing in the way of wage-
reductions, and throwing the burden of sup-
porting the unemployed largely on the tax-
payer; (2) the consequent inability of those
who might otherwise be purchasers or
investors to assist in trade-recovery; and
(3) the dislocation of the money and credit
system of the world. In the organised indus-
tries—mostly secondary— costs and prices
have not been appreciably lowered, so that
almost the whole burden of the decline in
prices has fallen upon the world’s primary
industries—and the taxpayers. No doubt
there are in the world millions of men who
were engaged in the secondary industries-and
are now unemployed and in distress; but that
is only because it is no longer possible for the
primary producers to support them. Wheat,
rubber, coffee, cotton and many other staples
are at the lowest prices in history; yet the
prices of most manufactured goods and of
most services are far from the lowest in his-
tory. How can that anomaly be corrected?
How can the prices of primary products be
lifted without lifting equally the costs of
production—in other words, without lifting
the wages, etc., of all outside those industries?
Or is it possible to bring all prices into cor-
respondence by reducing wages in the organ-
ised trades?
If it is not practicable to make great cuts
in organised labor throughout the world,
the only alternative, if we are not to
strangle the primary industries, is in some
wav to increase prices. The rule still holds
that the abundance or scarcity of gold
governs prices. There seems no escane from
that proposition: if gold or the credit that
is based on gold is plentiful, prices must
r’se. But the go'd must be doing its work.
If credit is not being built upon it, because
it is where it is not wanted, then it might
a s well not have been dug. America holds
half the world’s monetarv gold. -md France
far too much of the balance. How to get
it back to use is the world’s great problem
to-dav. If it cannot be done, or something
that will have the same effect, then the earn-
mgs of the secondary producer must be
brought down until they corresnond more
nearly to those of the primary producer.
And that looks an almost hopeless proposi-
tion.
LABOR PLAYS WITH A BOMB.
For 40 years the Labor party has. in appear-
ance at least, preserved its solidarity. That
is to say, no Wesley has broken from the
old church to found a new one, to be itself
presently the parent of three or four more.
But there have been many defections: we
scarcely realise how many until we see how
few of those former Labor stalwarts who
have been sent to' the nominee Leg. Council
of N. S. Wales, for example, continue their
adherence. Of all the living members of
the Labor parties in the six State Assemblies
of the earlier ’nineties, only three or four
are still identified with the old cause. Nor
is Labor’s impotence to hold its members
shown by this fact alone; there is further
proof of it in the tremendous reverses it
has suffered during its extremely chequered
career. The call to class consciousness has
no doubt served well; but the story that
Labor holds its people in the hollow of
its hand is a proved fiction.
It has its thick and thin supporters, of
course; but a dozen elections show that it
has no tighter grip upon the vast number of
casual worshippers, the people who really
control elections, than the National or any
other party. There were those who thought
that Conscription merely robbed it of a hand-
ful of leaders. The facts laugh at that easy
assumption. From 1904 onward to 1917 Labor
had held office for a longer period in the
aggregate than its opponents; with one very
brief spell it was in power continuously from
early in 1910 to the beginning of 1917. After
the crash no Labor Government had a look-
in until Scullin’s arrival at the end of 1929;
and Scullin has never had even the beginning
of a majority in the Senate. The recovery
in the States has been equally tardy. Those
Trades Hall “bosses,” then, who think that
they have only to hold up their finger and
the cohorts of Labor will come trooping
in unbroken columns to their call are merely
suffering from swelled head.
And there never was a subject over which
they w r ere so likely to cause trouble as
over Communism. Communism in itself
is a quite arguable proposition. Thousands
of honest andsincere and unselfish men believe
that it would be the best thing for the world.
Certainly nine-tenths of those who profess
to be Communists don’t know what it
means, and connect it in some way with
spoliation and robbery and a good time
on the proceeds; but that doe c n’t affect the
cardinal facts about Communism, any more
than the old pagan ideas about Christianity
and its human sacrifices affect the cardinal
facts about Christianity. Communism does,
however, imply such a radical change that
long ago its leaders came to two conclusions:
first, it would be resisted by force, wherefore
it must realise that it must impose itself by
force; second, that, since in practice it
must tread on many toes, it must be pre-
pared to maintain itself by force. In
modern times it has gone a step further.
Since it must be prepared to impose itself
by force—in other words, since it must be
revolutionary—why wait for a majority to
approve of it?
It is at this point that the Labor party
must either throw the Communists out or
throw up the last pretence of being a demo-
cratic body. Labor in politics is the lineal
descendant of those who have fought for
the right of the people to govern them-
selves. Communism is frankly contemptu-
ous of the people as a governing body. It
says they are ignorant, stupid and lethargic.
Hence when it set out to capture Russia
for Communism it did not make the
smallest pretence of consulting the people;
the mere handful of Bolsheviks, having first
assured themselves of the support of the
army, imposed their theories upon a hundred
millions. The question for the Labor man
is whether as the standard-bearer of de-
mocracy he can admit to the same roof
any who propose to pull the edifice
down; who deny the right of men or a
majority of men to govern themselves;
who say “We think this is best for you,
therefore this thing you shall have whether
you like it or not.” That they must be pre-
pared to shoot a few people or a few thou-
sand people and be shot themselves is
important, no doubt, but not so important
as this other fact—that Labor cannot com-
bine- with Communists without contem-
plating the surrender of all those prin-
ciples for which not only the Labor party
but all the trade-union forerunners of the
Labor party fought. It is the profanation of
a temple; it is spitting upon our fathers’
graves.
And there is something beyond even
that. This is not Russia; and in Australia
the capture of the State is not going to be
the simple matter that Trotsky and Lenin
found it. What then? By no means does
it follow that, if it should ever come to a
clash between the forces of Communism and
the present social order, the present order
will be restored if Communism should be
defeated. Democratic institutions are con-
fessedly on their trial. There is a very
large body of opinion most doubtful of the
wisdom of universal suffrage, for example.
It is not at all certain that one man one
vote, let alone one adult one vote, has
justified itself. If the whole system shpu'd
be thrown into the melting-pot as a result
of Communist activities, the votes of tens
of thousands of people will be in grave
jeopardy. A few years ago the apostle of
soc ; ajisation told his followers, “You have
nothing to lose but your chains.” They
have a good deal more to lose in Australia
to-day: the franchise for one thing.
THE SAVINGS BANK AND THE
BURGLARS’ UNION.
The N.S.W. Government Savings Bank Bill
is a gross violation of the rights of deposi-
tors. The bank is to have two divisions—
Old Business and New Business. The old
deposits are to be capitalised; in plain Eng-
lish, they are not to be deposits, but are
to be capital, and as capital may presumably
be written down to meet losses that may be
made on the sale of assets, notwithstanding
the State guarantee under which such
deposits were secured. No provision is
made for the early repayment of any portion
of the deposits; on the contrary, they are
to be repaid only at the option of the
Commissioners. There is no obligation on
the Commissioners to repay them at all.
The Commissioners when and if they do
repay any of these capitalised deposits may
first pay out to school children, friendly
societies and certain others, including “any
Government department.” As assets are
realised the Commissioners are under no
obligation to distribute the proceeds among
the depositors to whom the money belongs:
they may lend it to the New Business divi-
sion. There is apparently nothing to pre-
vent the New Division from paying its
depositors with this money if there is not
enough of their own in hand for the pur-
pose. And the Commissioners may do more
than take the old depositors’ money: they
are “empowered to hypothecate any securi-
ties belonging to the Old Division.”
When a business can no longer pay its
debts the creditors take charge of it. That
is the proper and natural thing; for the
former owners’ interest in it has disappeared,
and what is left belongs to those whose
money alone is now at stake. In other
words, ownership has changed, and with
ownership, of course, goes control. Further-
more, it is necessary that the former
owners should be relieved because they may
have got credit dishonestly or misapplied
the money of their creditors; and if they
remained in charge their crime might reason-
ably be expected to be covered up.
Owned by the Government and carried
on by it through Commissioners, the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank is no longer able to
pay its debts chiefly by reason of the de-
fault of the owner in his capacity of bor-
rower. This relation itself is a very doubtful
one, and throws an enormous responsibility
upon the owner. What should we say of
the general manager of a bank which had
to susnend through his failure to repay a
loan which he had made to h'mself and to
pay interest on other loans made to him?
Unquestionably there would be a demand for
this man’s trial. That simple and undoubted
fact shows what the real position of this
Government in relation to this bank is.
Had it possessed even the mo't elementary
sense of decency, in view of its position as
chief debtor and defaulter it would have
seen that the depositors—its creditors—
were immediately called together, and that
the future was left entirely to them to
decide. Instead, this defaulting Govern-
ment. with the most amazing effrontery,
took charge of the proceedings, turned down
an offer made by the Commonwealth Bank
without referring it in any way to the men
and women whose whole fortune in many
cases was at stake, and then set to work
to build these monstrous plans for the dis-
posal of these unfortunate people’s money.
Whether there should be a new bank is
quite beside this question. If the Govern-
ment believes that it can get hold of the
people’s money more easily by having
a State bank, notwithstanding the exist-
ence of the Commonwealth Bank, it will
no doubt go ahead; and the depositors
will have no right to protest except as
citizens. But the disposal of the old bank
is quite a different matter. There the
dej ors are entitled to make the best
bargam they can for themselves with their
debtors, of whom the Government is the
chief; they are entitled to assure themselves
that there has been no fraud in the dis-
posal of their funds; they are entitled to
assure themselves in particular that the
Government believed that the bank had a
chance of pulling through when the Trea-
surer made the full-page appeal over his
own name for deposits.
For the Government—this defaulting
debtor whose default was the immediate
cause of the suspension—to attempt in such
circumstances to decide what the depositors
shall do suggests that Mr. Lang does not
realise the position he is in—or realises it
too well. Certainly if it is held to be a
proper thing that the people whose default
has wrecked an institution should decide
what shall be done with it, then it can be
only a matter of time when the Burglars’
Union must be given the right to lay down
a policy for the Police Department.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Loafer’s Paradise.
Although unemployment and the closing
of the Government Savings Bank have
brought wretchedness into thousands of
N. S. Wales homes, the habitual loafer—
always numerous in Sydney, which is about
the pleasantest city in the world to loaf in
—is having the time of his life. He is being
paid for being a loafer, and can laugh at
the vagrancy law, which in other days was
a threat to him, though the threat was
more or less remote. A so-called Labor
Government is taxing workers a shilling in
the pound of their gross earnings to main-
tain him in idleness, in effect reducing wages
by taxation, while leaving him free to
augment his income by earbiting and
other means.
The nominal ration allowance is ss. lOd.
a week for single men, 9s. sd. for married
couples, 14s. Bd. if there is a child, 19s.
7fd. if there are two children, and 235. 4kl.
if there are four children; but this can be
greatly increased. A mother is allowed ss.
a week from the child-endowment fund
(nourished by a tax on employers of £1
in the £IOO of wages paid, which tax is to
be doubled) for every child after the first,
and a father has opportunities of wangling
an invalid pension, now 17s. 6d. a week;
judging by cases recently exposed in
Sydney courts, the wangling of invalid
pensions is by no means difficult if the
applicant is a fluent liar. The ration allow-
ance is apt to be reduced a trifle if the
family is drawing invalid pension and child
endowment, and if the three departments
handling these matters —one Federal and
two State —work in with one another, as
they may or may not. Probably not.
The no-labor Government has so ordered
things that persons in receipt of dole, in-
valid pension and child endowment may
live rent free. When, through the instru-
mentality of the Commonwealth Bank
Board, necessitous depositors in the Gang-
smashed Savings Bank were allowed up to
£3 a week, they were warned that no por-
tion of it must be paid to the landlord,
landlords being as obnoxious to the Gang-
planners as “hungry bondholders.” Since
then, largely as a result of Communist
pressure, the law has been amended to per-
mit of any tenant who hasn’t paid rent for
months, and who pleads poverty, remaining
in possession for another three months on
the same terms, and the period may be
extended at a magistrate’s discretion.
Indeed, it is virtually impossible for a
houseowner—who perhaps is buying his
house through the late Savings Bank, and
whose cash is locked up in that busted in-
stitution—to compel a tenant to pay rent,
or to turn him out if he doesn’t pay.
Nominally, the right to evict a bad tenant
is preserved, but if a man tried to enforce
it he would, in all probability, find his
house seized, fortified and damaged by
Communist ruffians, and the possibility that
the police would be ordered to drive them
out by Gosling, of tin-hare and dole-bread
contract celebrity, would be small.
Moreover, a loafer on the dole need not
stick to the prescribed amount if he chooses
to go after more. It seems as easy as
falling off a log for one person to collect
six or eight doles by giving a different name
and address each time. A swarm of in-
spectors is employed, and there is a peri-
odical review of dole tickets, but it
is acknowledged that this unspeakable
form of fraud is still rife. In an unwonted
burst of frankness, Ely, now Minister for
Health, admitted that 25 per cent., perhaps
30 per cent., of the money extorted by the
special ta.x was going to impostors—perhaps
the most blistering admission of govern-
mental ineptitude ever made by a Minister
of the Crown. There would be no fraud
to speak of if applicants for the dole were
required to give the equivalent in work—
were, in fact, told that they must hold
themselves in readiness, men and women, to


go straight from the dole office to a tem-
porary job of some kind or other, even it
it were only chopping wood or washing
shirts; but this no-labor Government will
not allow even the willing to work. Muni-
cipal council after municipal council, with
the support of the local unemployed, has
offered to give them work to the extent
of the dole, and supplement it from its
own resources, but the Government has
rejected all these plans.
The Commonwealth Statistician reports
that N. S. Wales is losing population, and
this is only natural. Following the flight
of capital, workers are going to Victoria
and Queensland in search of jobs, and
loafers are coming from Queensland and
Victoria to enjoy the good things which
the Gang-planners have provided for gentle-
men of their class. The emigration is
greater than the immigration, for the
average Australian still wants to toil for
his bread, albeit socialist politicians have
done their best to persuade him that by
means of repudiation, seizure of bank funds
and issuing of bad money he could live
without work. It is certainly a great time
for loafers in N. S. Wales, but it can’t last.
♦
Mungana and Mr. Theodore’s Promises.
The issue, as the Chief Justice put it to
the jury, was whether McCormack and
Theodore had conspired with Goddard, the
former manager of the State smelters at
Chillagoe, and Reid, the Mungana lease-
holder, “to take the Government down by
selling it a mine for £40,000 which was not
worth more than £10,000.” The Crown
failed to convince the special jury of four
that there had been this conspiracy, and
the verdict was for the defendants, with
costs against the Crown. “In law,” said the
Chief Justice, “there is, nothing to prevent
a member of Parliament having shares in
certain concerns if he has them legiti-
mately.” But after these proceedings Aus-
tralian politicians will be chary of having
business relations with the Government of
the State or the Commonwealth; and that
is something gained, at any rate.
The result is very satisfactory to Mr.
Theodore and his friends; but considering
him as a politician it is most unfortunate
that he did not go into the box. In the
House of Reps, on July 4, 1930, when an-
nouncing his (temporary) resignation from
the Ministry, he said:—
A grave injustice lias been done to me, and an
opportunity must be afforded to me to clear my
character I am not going to answer these charges
here; I am looking for a better opportunity.... 1.
have, so far as I can see, only one hope; and that
is that the Queensland Government, by formulating
against me an indictment covering without abate-
ment every one of the charges that have been made
against me by the Royal Commissioner, may give me
an opportunity to face my accuser, or accusers and
In answer those charges.... I shall not mind the
humiliation if I am given a fair opportunity to face
my accusers, and to present evidence in rebuttal
of that which they may bring in support of their
charges.
As a citizen Mr. Theodore had a perfect
right, to conduct the case as he did. But
Mr. Theodore is more than a private citi-
zen : he is the Treasurer of the Common-
wealth, and the Commonwealth has a right
to expect that its Treasurer should submit
himself to the most searching cross-exami-
nation. And nobody knows better than
Mr. Theodore what was expected of him:
this was, in his own words, to “face his
accuser or accusers and answer those
charges”; to “present evidence in rebuttal
of that which they may bring in support
of their charges.” Mr. Theodore has gained
a legal victory; there would be less doubt
whether he had gained a moral one had he
done what he clearly knew was expected
of him, and which he declared it was his
desire to do.
So the position as it stands is that the
Crown has been entirely unsuccessful in
connecting Mr. Theodore with a conspiracy;
but by keeping out of the box Mr. Theo-
dore has shown far less regard for his office
than the public has a right to require.
The Lottery and the Basic Wage.
The first State lottery was drawn in Sydney
last week, and £16.000 was paid away in
prizes out of £25,000 subscribed. The bal-
ance goes in expenses and to consolidated
revenue. A remarkable thing is that nobody
suggested that £30,000 should be paid out
in prizes. Yet why not? It would be no
more absurd to make such a demand than it
is to maintain a basic wage which is fixed
not by the amount paid in—that is to say.
earned—but by the needs or supposed needs
of the participants. No doubt thousands
of those who bought tickets in this lottery
need prizes very badly. Yet nobody was
silly enough to suggest that it is possible
to pay out more than has been paid in.
When, however, it comes to industry no
such consideration is allowed to have
weight.
The inevitable result, of course, is that,
since their employment on the only terms
on which they may be employed is un-
profitable, some hundreds of thousands of
people in Australia are unemployed. No-
body wants to see wages reduced; as every-
body knows, the higher the wages that can
be paid the more prosperous we shall be.
But if high wages cannot be paid because
under present conditions they cannot be
earned, then it is a cruel thing to keep wages
lugh by legislation.
There is need for a minimum wage to
prevent sweating. But that is not economic;
it is humanitarian. It is the contribution
which those fit and well make towards
the maintenance of the unfit and the un-
well. This has nothing to do with a basic
wage at all: it does not concede the so-
called principle of the basic wage. We
shall have to get back to it and throw over-
board the stupid idea that we can draw
out more than we put in, whether it be m
industry, beer-jugs, lotteries or anything else.
Unemployed Youth.
An even more difficult problem than dis-
posing of adult unemployment is that of
unearthing means of- keeping unemployed
youths out of mischief. The difficulty here
is not in finding employment under certain
conditions, but in finding youths who will
take it on. Toowoomba recently made an
effort to do something for the many unem-
ployed Darling Downs youngsters. Farmers
and graziers were asked if they could lodge
and feed lads in return for light duties.
Answers came by the dozen, nearly all
offering wages in addition to accommoda-
tion and food, and offering also to push the
lads on as they got experience. Though
Toowoomba is the centre of a rich farming
district, and though the Toowoomba youth
must be fairly familiar with the decent con-
ditions of life on Darling Downs farms,
only two boys out of over 100 accepted.
Much the same thing is reported from other
places.
The most likely remedy is the forma-
tion of the lads into labor battalions —even
if the labor only took the form of com-
pulsory attendance daily at some centre
for the purpose of learning a trade. At
any rate, the training would prove an
asset no matter what the youth’s future
walk in life, and the daily routine would
keep him from the demoralising influence
of. idleness, bad enough for grown men,
but worse for unformed youth. But our
whole plan of education must take a new
direction. Hitherto we have been content ,to
let the city make an overwhelming appeal
to the young person. We must set out now
to show and stress the allurements of the
country. And a strong case can be made
out for the country; indeed, it is a fair thing
to say that the average city youth turns to
pleasures for no better reason than that his
job is able to interest him so little, whereas
the country can offer work that in itself is
as fascinating as any in the world. Nor is
that truth in the least affected-by the cir-
cumstance that so many country youths
drift to the city. That is a matter of edu-
cation, too; where there is a serious drift
of young people from a fertile district which
has .not been lately afflicted by drought,
it is almost certain that those in local charge
of education have failed to open the eyes
of youth to the wonders around them. Given
the right education, a youth of the right
temperament will presently find himself
pitying the poor creatures who are tied to
the wheel in the city, and who seek relief
from the boredom of their repetitive work
by doing things that have been invented
for the mere purpose of consuming time.
So we should not reproach the boys be-
cause only two out of over 100 accepted
the Darling Downs offer. Rather must we
reproach ourselves for having brought them
up in such unhealthy conditions. What have
we taught the youth of the city to know of
the. real facts of life? His ideas of it are
got from the picture-show; and they are
ridiculously artificial. The country boy,
looking out upon his father’s paddocks,
grows up knowing that the family can have
only what it can dig out of that soil; and
this is the beginning of wisdom.
♦
The N.S.W. Bench.
“Inner Temple”: There is a good case for
the statutory exemption of the Judges from
the provisions of the N.S.W. Reduction of
Salaries Act. Half a century ago. when
their salaries were fixed, £2600 p.a. was
enough to attract the cream of the Bar. As
time went on, and the cost of living, taxes,
etc., rose, while the Judges’ salaries re-
mained the same, leaders of the Bar grew
more and more chary about going on the
Bench. Recent Governments have found it
increasingly difficult to get good men, and
absolutely impossible to get the best.
The present Judges accepted their jobs
on the implied understanding—a matter
of usage—that their salaries would never be
reduced while they gave good service, and
in that belief some appear to have entered
into heavy commitments. One revealed in
the “S. M. Herald” last- week that when
he has paid all he owes for the year, he
will only have a shilling or two more than
the basic wage to keep himself and family.
Of course, there is no provision in the
N.S.W. as there is in the Commonwealth
Constitution making it illegal for a Govern-
ment to reduce Judges’ salaries. However,
a sensible Government doesn’t stand blindly
on its rights; it is influenced by individual
circumstances. If the Lang Government
sticks to its present idea of bringing down
the puisnes bv just on £7OO, and the C.J.
by just on £IOOO p.a., an effect will be that
no 'first-class man will ever look at a N.S.W.
Judgeship again—and weak Judges mean
weak law, and sometimes, as in the U.S.A.,
corrupt law. Assuming the Judges’ contri-
butions were fixed by Parliament at, say, a
third of the present sums, they would still be
paying more than if they had been in a
position to join in the rush for the wages
and salaries spoils of the past quarter of a
century. Such a concession would be not
charity but business; and no class would
benefit more by it in the long run than
the workers, who are always the first to
suffer, from second-rate Benches. And it
wouldn’t be all loss. Some of the Judges
would almost certainly follow the example
of their Federal brethren, and give back
what they could afford of their own accord.
Figures Can Be Great Liars.
There surely never was a politician who
had a more cynical contempt for the mob
than John Ihomas Lang. Say a thing
loudly and boldly enough, and Lang knows
that generally you can “get away with it”
—for a time. .
There were several fine examples of this
attitude in the speech which John Thomas
addressed to the mob on the second reading
of the Savings Bank Bill. For instance :
A special report furnished to me by the Auditor-
General shows that the assets exceeded the liabilities
at April 30, 1930, by £3,955,134, and that for
the 10 months from July 1, 1930, to April 30, 1931,
the Savings Bank Department showed a net profit of
£243,344, the Rural Bank a net profit of £55,958,
and the Advances for Homes a net profit of £34,014,
or a total net profit in all departments of £333,316
for a period of 10 months.
Now, Lang must know that those are all
merely book values. The biggest smash in
1893 was that of the Commercial Bank of
Australia—a smash so disastrous that every
penny of the shareholders’ capital at the
time was lost. Yet the balance-sheet then
showed a reserve fund of £750,000, along
with ' undivided profits of £lOB,OOO, while
the capital itself was £1,200,000. The net
profit for the last half-year had been
£69,859, and a dividend at the rate of 12 V
per cent, had been paid. It is the same
with every bank that smashes. The values
in the books are all right; it is when they
have to realise the assets that the horrible
truth comes out. The Commercial Bank
of Australia no doubt honestly thought it
had made a profit of £69,859. What it
didn’t know until it proceeded to sell its
assets was that they had receded in value
many millions of pounds and that, instead
of a profit, there had been a colossal loss.
There is not the shadow of a doubt that
this is the position with regard to this
savings bank also.
The object of Lang’s remarks was appa-
rently to suggest that the Commonwealth
Bank’s offer was so illiberal that it had to
be turned down. But’ not the smallest atten-
tion should be paid to the figures, which
can only delude and deceive credulous
depositors.
♦-
This Federation of Ours.
This Federation of ours is unfederal enough
to be humorous at times. Queensland some
years ago decided upon a hospital lottery.
Instantly certain other States proclaimed
that lotteries were a sinful gamble and no
mention of the abomination must be made
in public print within their borders. To-day
one of the States which was thus shocked
runs a lottery of its own; but still a N.S.W.
newspaper dare not mention Queensland’s
Golden Casket. Another State, which houses
the greatest gamble of the Australian year,
lately informed newspapers that if they
advertised the N. S. Wales lottery they
could not be permitted to bring a blush to
the fair cheek of Victorians. Even an innocu-
ous charity art union, authorised by the
Government of N. S. Wales, is liable to get
a S. Australian newsagent in trouble if
he so much as sells a paper which announces
the forthcoming infamy! One could have
some sympathy with strivings after purity
if it was not so obvious that the saints are
hypocrites whose one object is to keep their
own people’s gambling money within their
own reach.
The perfection of our Federal system for
harassing enterprising citizens is illustrated
also by our Departments of Taxation. A
N. S. Wales manufacturer pushes his busi-
ness ' into, say, Queensland, whereupon
Queensland claps on an income tax based
not on the profits—of which there may not
be any—but on a percentage of the turn-
over. And N. S. Wales will claim income
tax on the sale of the identical goods on the
ground that they were made within its
jurisdiction. So is the glorious principle
of freedom of trade b'etween the States
vindicated!
But alongside the variations in the basic
wage due to the unequal eccentricities of
State Governments, all those things are
of little account. In Sydney, under this
perfect Federal system of ours, the basic
wage is £4 2s. 6d. a week: to the north
is Brisbane, where the basic wage is
£3 7s. 6d.: to the south, Melbourne, £3 16s.
On the Victorian side of the Murray a
lorry-driver’s pay, as laid down by law,
is £3 11s. 6d. per week of 48 hours; in the
N. S. Wales town across the bridge the
lorry-driver must get £4 15s. 6d. per week
of 44 hours. The explanation, of course, is
that in N. S. Wales kind Mr. Lang says
that if the working man can’t have turkey
he shall not have anything. And he is get-
ting nothing in increasing quantities as one
industry after another rolls up its bundle
and moves across the border into either
Queensland or Victoria.
♦
How to Become a Farmer.
“Two young men, each 21, one a city clerk and
accountancy student, the other an engineering student
(S.A.), want to go on the land. They have no
experience and no capital. How can they gain
experience, and what are their prospects of obtaining
a farm of their own?” — Service Department inquirer.
If two young men (21), one a drapery sales-
man and the other a student of physics,
asked how it was likely they would get on
as seamen, and what were their chances of
obtaining a ship of their own. the reply
would be quite obvious: it would depend
upon the young men themselves. But, some-
how, “the land” came to be regarded as
something which (mybody could tackle.
Young men have been dumped on to it who
have never seen a real farm in their lives,
and the State has even backed the enter-
prise. It could scarcely have got into worse
trouble if it had backed syndicates of
untrained men —say, a couple of hundred per
syndicate—to run inter-State steamer ser-
vices. At any rate, it would take quite
as long to learn all there is to know about
farming as about navigation.
It is true that a man who has never seen
a farm may get some sort of a crop from
one, and in course of time, if he doesn’t
starve or if he doesn’t ruin the farm and
all there is on it, he may make a success
of it. In most cases, however, he will
go off the place leaving debts unpaid and
with a perpetual grouch against the industry.
In many cases he will do worse than that.
The chances are that he will have decided
to “go farming” while there was a craze
for it, and he will have been one of those
to join in putting the price of farming land
up to a ridiculous figure. Unfortunately
what the fools promise to pay—but never
can pay—forms the basis on which farming
land is valued; and in the absence of any
accepted formula for appraising it, the
price is pushed higher and higher. This is
one of the greatest curses of the industry;
and how to check it is a problem.
And then, everybody who goes into this
business must have a farm of his own and
make a fortune out of it. There is no
better reason why every farmer should have
a farm than why every engineer should have
a shop. We have, however, developed the
stupid idea that the farm-laborer is a,
person who ought to be rather ashamed of
himself. This is largely the fault of the
boss-farmer: he has provided accommoda-
tion for his farm-worker which no person
with a fair opinion of himself could put up
with. In themselves, however, there is no
reason at all why the farm-worker and his
calling should not be held in as high esteem
as the journeyman carpenter or the master-
journalist and their callings. This is the
very weak link in our agriculturaUemploy-
ment chain. Hundreds of farms have been
a failure because the farmer (1) didn’t
have the training which he might and
should have got as a farm-worker; (2)
didn’t have the money which he might have
saved had he put in five or seven years—
or more —getting ready for that little place
of his own.
It is not forgotten that every State has
its system of agricultural education, with
such admirable institutions as Hawkesbury.
Dookie, Gatton and Roseworthy. But only
a very small proportion of young men can
accept the benefits of these colleges; and
even those who have had a .couple of years'
training are infinitely the better for some
years’ practical work under an experienced
master-farmer.
*
Deporting the Communists.
Canada, like Australia and the United
States, has for long been a happy hunting-
ground for the Moscow-endowed Com-
munist, sometimes an alien but far too
often a native son or at least a fellow-
Briton. The U.S.A. some time ago intro-
duced legislation enabling the deportation
not only of undesirable aliens but, under
certain circumstances, of native-born.
Canada recently followed suit, and the
first round-up was prompt and very vigorous.
Among those who were sent away—
probably to Australia—were several British
subjects, one of them a Scotsman who had
been making a living in Canada for some
years as a professional agitator and poli-
tician.
In Australia we have always jealously
guarded the right of free speech; and
deportation is a most effective interference
with free speech. But regard must be
had to what the speech is about. If, for
instance, Brown calls upon his friends to
prevent the free speech of others, then we
uphold freedom of speech by silencing
Brown. In a democratic country we insist
that a. man shall have the right to advocate
republicanism or monarchism, freetrade or
protection, socialism or individualism, so
long as he concedes that the majority shall
decide those issues. But the moment he
advocates violence for the purpose of rob-
bing the majority of their right to govern
themselves, then the position is completely
changed. Democracy knows that the right
of the majority to govern can be taken
from it by the sudden rising of an organised
and armed minority; hence it is its plain
dutyr to silence those who advocate revo-
lutionary action. So far from the deporta-
tion of such men being an attack upon the
rights of the people, it is the most obvious
course to protect and preserve those rights.
That no steps have been taken in this
direction in Australia merely shows how
urgent those steps are, since the inaction
is due to the power which the revolutionary
Communist party has already acquired.
*
Edward Dyson.
Australian literature and Australian senti-
ment owe a good deal to Edward Dyson,
who died in Melbourne on Saturday. For
1 he last 10 years ill-health had silenced him:
but for 35 years before that he was one of
the brightest of our writers and the most
industrious. His output as a freelance
journalist of extraordinary versatility was
enormous: yet he found time to write for
The Bulletin from the middle ’eighties
onwards some of its best short stories—
" The Golden Shanty” gave its name to a
volume —particularly rich and faithful in
local color, characteristically Australian in
humor and unimpeachable in tone. And he
did more than set a pattern by his writing:
he was a big-hearted Australian who had an
encouraging and helpful word for every trier
in literary and pictorial art.


SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
Cbmmoitmlli) Savinas Bank of Australia
C Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Diamond Engagement Mings
The uiamo.ids used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection cm approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.! 16
BRISBANE:
QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lang has offered an explanation as to
why he didn’t let the Commonwealth Bank
take over his wrecked Savings Bank; the
taking over, he says, would have meant, the
closing of the Rural Bank, because it wasn’t
included in the scheme. But there is no
earthly reason why John Thomas shouldn’t
run the Rural Bank separately if he feels
inclined, and make a brilliant success of it
if he knows how, instead of getting sour and
throwing it and the Savings Bank into the
common heap of liquidation under five com-
missioners, or trustees, or something. There
is this to be said for Lang as a financier:
he can always spend a pound and get more
out of it tliah a sane Treasurer would get
for eigliteenpence.
Uniform Customs duties don’t do much
good if State laws lay themselves out to beat
them. Vic. these days has the 48-liour week;
in N.S.W. Lang made it 44 hours. And
as the basic wage in Vic. is 6s. 6d. a week
less than it is in N.S.W., Sydney is spotted
with the remains of what once were fac-
MISS LANG: “I picked these out for you!”
MISS N.S.W.: “Yes, you fool —and see what
you’ve spoiled to do it!”
lories whose owners have fled south. Queens-
land is attracting others —the basic wage in
Brisbane is 15s. a week less than in Sydney,
and the Sydney job-printing trade is almost
bankrupt in consequence. As a tidicr-up.
Lang, who promised to go out after the tall
poppies, is a dreary failure. His wreckage
among the shrinking violets is shocking.
While everyone was wondering what the
Mungana verdict would be Queensland Pre-
mier Moore had something to say about the
Chillagoe operations. The loss for the year
1930-31 was £18,322 3s. 10d., though more bul-
lion was turned out in that twelvemonth than
had ever been produced in a Labor Gov-
ernment year. In 1925 26, when McCor-
mack was in power, the loss on the opera-
tions was £155,893 Bs. 5d., while £156,126
2s. Ud. was lost in the first seven months of
1926-27. And the Labor Governments had the
benefit of comparatively high prices. Silver,
2s. 7d. per ounce in 1924-25, is now Is. Id.;
copper, then quoted at £6B a ton, has been
as low as £36.
Had things been allowed to drift Victoria
would have had a shortage of £3,060,000 for
the current year—at least, that is: Hogan’s
estimate. Retrenchment has brohght the pro-
bable deficit down to about a million, and
Hogan proposes to give a few more turns
to the income-tax screw to get as much out
of the people as in 1929-30. (There was then
no unemployment tax, which is designed to
bring in £1,792,000 this year.) Of 1,037,344
electors on the Assembly rolls, only 158.963
pay income tax. A flat rate of £1 on 250,000
and of 10s. on another 150,000 would bring
in £325,000 without hurting the contributors
much.
John Allan, leader of the Vic. Cockies,
nearly beat the Hogans on an amendment to
moderate the increased super-income tax for
unemployment purposes; had two Nats, and
an Independent been in their nlaces Farmer
John would have won. Argyle had got little
support for an attempt to knock £600,000
off the amount to be raised. Allan’s proposal
appealed as a fair compromise, and it will
not be surprising if the Uppish House resur-
rects it. Cain bad charge of the Unemploy-
ment Bill while Premier Hogan was con-
valescing and Budget-constructing on his
little farm at Ballan.
Dr. Arthur, the mildest and most ami-
able of N.S.W. Assemblymen, was turned out
of the House the other day at the instance
of a bitter Gang-planner named Peter Con-
nolly, who was temporarily in the. chair.
Breaking an unwritten law, Connolly called
upon the ex-Minister to act as teller when
the bill to reward railwaymen for striking
in 1917 was being bludgeoned through.
“Remove the hon. member!” barked the ill-
conditioned mob-orator to the Sergeant-at-
Arms on the doctor politely refusing to
depart from custom. Connolly comes from
Newcastle, where his pack is in yelping pur-
suit of Ben Watkins, who has given a life-
time of service to the coalminers and is the
only 1901 Labor M.11.1t. left.
When the Westralian secessionists deli-
berated recently their president referred to
Federation as a devouring monster, an in-
satiable demon and a strangling octopus;
and the other gentlemen signified in the
usual manner that they considered his de-
scription exact. Still, with an accumulated
deficit of 174 millions and a massive addi-
tion in prospect, the Commonwealth is allow-
ing Westralia a special grant of £300,000
this year, besides keeping Westralian Air-
ways going when the subsidy to Kingsford
Smith’s concern has been withdrawn and
continuing to bear the losses on the Kalgoor-
lie-Port Augusta railway—two millions in
12 years. It’s a queer way of being mon-
strous, demoniac and octopus-like.
The latest population figures show that
Queensland is entitled to another member
in the House of Reps.—ll instead of 10
But it will be deprived of the additional
member until a census has been taken, un-
less Giblin’s estimate (of course it is nothing
more) is accepted as a substitute, and for
that special legislation will be required. A
decennial census is due in all civilised C9UII-
- this year, but the Scullidores decided
to “save” £lOO,OOO or so by dispensing with
it Then they gave the State Governments
an extra million for motor speedways along-
side their insolvent railways.
The South Aus. Legislature is in the
throes of an effort to pass a fraud-tight
Companies Act. If enacted, it will be too
late to save the foolish folk of this genera-
tion who in the plentiful years qualified for
enrolment on the suckers’ list. The share-
hound does not look them up any more. But
the next generation, or the next, may have
enough funds to give the bulky bill a prac-
tical value. Attorney-General Denny intro-
duced it in heroic terms: he recited many
stories of shameful acts done by share sales-
men —stories that, alas! were middle-aged
when Mr. Denny took office as Attorney-
General in the' Labor Government of 1924.
A conviction that party politics ought to
be suspended until the financial clouds
brighten is gaining ground in M.L. Forbes
offered months ago to step down in favor of
an all-party coalition, and has since been
carrying out a programme of economy and
retrenchment helped by his former enemies
the Reformers, and opposed by his former
allies the Laborites. Not relishing the posi-
tion, he arranged for a general election
several weeks earlier than it was due, but
now Reform-leader Coates has held out the
olive branch and suggested an economy com-
mittee representative of the whole Parlia-
ment. All three parties have joined in, the
Budget will almost certainly be revised, and
there is talk of postponing the elections.
“Although subscriptions to the conversion loan are
in the neighborhood of 300 millions, there is a
tendency among some bondholders to decide to con-
vert their holdings and then delay taking action.”
“Don’t hesitate, Dig. We didn’t.”
Chandler, sometime Vic. Minister of
Works, kept the Leg. Council debate on the
Financial Emergency Bill going while a
statutory majority was being beaten up, and
suggested that the reduction of members’ pay
should be much more substantial than the
64 per cent, proposed. “We don’t all grow
daffodils,” interjected McNamara, the Assist-
ant Minister. “If you had to grow daffodils,
you’d starve,” retorted Chandler, whose
flower-farm at Boronia is famous; “anyhow.
we can’t all have cushy jobs at the
Trades Hall.” Mac. is Victorian secre-
tary of the A.L.P. The Acting-President,
seeing that the majority had arrived, inter-
vened gently with the comment that the little
matters mentioned had nothing to do with
the bill. The second reading was carried,
but in committee the House excluded Judges
from the operation of the measure, in effect
approving of their Honors’ contention that
their sacrifice of pay should be voluntary.
Snowden’s financial estimates for 1930-
31 and ’3l-32 have gone to pieces so
badly that it will be necessary, as a
special committee reports, to raise or
save another £320,000,000, and the Gov-
ernment is on the rocks. In 1929 the
British people made about 839 millions
by exporting goods and 504 millions by carry-
“Labor Governments are mixed blessings,
aren’t they, Dad?”
ing, banking, and collecting interest in
foreign lands and the Dominions. There is
a struggle to maintain the idea that all
these outside earnings were due to a little
group of islands in the North Sea sticking
like glue to Freetrade, but even the general
council of the Trades Union Congress is
abandoning it, and is disposed to accept a
tariff.
The latest decree of Czar Stalin is that
the rationing of bread is to cease next year,
and that the people aren’t to starve any
longer that the Government may have lots
of wheat to sell abroad. When the Musco-
vite Lang sees that he has been an arrogant
ass he simply reverses the engine. He doesn’t
allow Parliament or the press to worry him.
He is never defeated at an election nor is
his party ever defeated, and he doesn’t go
up for re-election when his term expires,
because he doesn’t allow it to expire. If
he has been an impossible ass and doesn’t
find it out no one else is allowed to find it
out at the risk of trial for being a counter-
revolutionist.
Party divisions in Queensland politics were
thrown to the winds when a member of the
Assembly (an Independent, needless to say)
moved that the Parliamentary liquor bar be
abolished. There was a numbed silence;
then big-ganie-shooter Arnold Weinholt, pre-
sumably willing to have a crack at anything,
seconded the motion. It was thrown out
by 36 to 9.
The Washington Treaty limited new
cruisers to 10,006 tonners carrying eight Sin.
guns. The Australia and Canberra are samples.
The Germans, by substituting welding for
rivets, which add hundreds of tons to a man-
o’-war’s displacement, arid by other ingenious
devices of the sort, were able, while keeping
within the terms of the Treaty, to turn out a
small floating fort mounting six llin. guns (as
well as eight 6in. guns), with Diesel engines,
which were supposed to develop 26 knots, but
can develop 30. In short, the Fatherland
has a _ ship which is capable of treating
France’s most modern craft as the Sydney
did the Emden. This is what has been stand-
ing in the way of a long-term loan by
France to the hereditary enemy. French
financiers feel about Germany as the Aus-
tralian banks do about Premier Lang—that
the necessitous Should disarm and drop
threatening language when they come after
loans.
There were hard-up Treasurers in Aus-
tralia before Lang, but their financial embar-
rassments fade into insignificance beside
his. However little they possessed in
cash they generally had some credit and,
better still, few creditors. Queensland
started its existence as a separate colony
with something under a shilling in tfie locker,
and S. Aus. had some very lean times when
in its swaddling clothes. Westralia’s plight
15 years after its foundation was even more
distressful. “Money seems to have almost
vanished,” wrote George Fletcher Moore, who
held the job of Civil Commissioner and other
offices, in 1844, “and there is no payment of
interest or rents. Our Treasury has only
£7 6s. sd. in it after paying the salaries and
disbursements of last month.” Still, they
were paid.
Union bosses are as much to blame as
the pictures for the collapse of the legitimate
drama in Australia. It was booming a few
years ago. Then the Actors’ Federation
came along with a demand for a minimum
wage of £6 per week for chorus and ballet
girls, and _£B per week for actors; and the
Musicians’ Union asked and got £8 Bs. per
week of six performances (not nights) in
opera, with 10s. per day travelling expenses
in certain circumstances. These and other
demands of the sort didn’t get the rank and
file more money; their only effect was to
lose workers of all descriptions their jobs
by putting managements out of business.
N.S.W. Ministers talk about the benefits
of socialisation, declaring that it would get
rid of the waste of competition; but when
they have a chance to cut out the waste* of
competition in savings banks, they turn their
own pet theory down, and bring in a bill
to set up what must he for all practical pur-
poses a new bank alongside tin; Common-
wealth institution. Pushing them on, of
course, is the old staff, which naturally
believes that if you’ve got a dentist in the
family you should turn up now and then
to have a tooth out so as to keep the brass-
plate up and shining.
More and more it becomes evident that
the depositors of the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank are likely to be sacrificed for
the good of the staff. One employee, who
once wrote a history of the bank, cheerfully
sent to the “S. M. Herald” :
A “scaling-down” of the value of deposits may be
necessary, but so great has been the reduction in
prices of securities generally that depositors, I feel
sure, will accept a- scaling-down with cheerful sacri-
fice, glad that the bank is on its feet again.
That was too much like giving the show
away; wherefore the Chief Commissioner
wrote saying that the’ author had been told
to hold his tongue till the thing was settled.
One never knows whether one will have
enough left to pay his fare home these days.
Following the cut in public-service salaries
(public service for the purposes of this
measure including Judges), one learned
brother wrote to the “S. M. Herald” that,
after providing for commitments, he wouldn’t
have the basic wage left to live upon. And
Judges are not the only ones. If you could
judge all the little groups of men in Aim-
“Better take ’em, lady, while yer luck’s in!”
tralia none would show more shocking
reverses than the squatters of 8. Australia,
who had just finished a five-year drought
when the wool market crashed and made
recovery impossible. More than half of Them
are living on the bank-dole.
“Bildad”: Federal Minister Blakeley has
let it be known that there is to be a
referendum along with next year's election,
provided the Scullins are in office then and
the Senate doesn’t refuse; the proposition
is abolition of State Legislatures. My
idea is that three separate questions should
be submitted on three separate bits of paper:
Do you want to abolish State Legislatures? Yet
or no.
Do you want more State Legislatures? Yes or no.
Do you want to abolish the Commonwealth Legis-
lature? Yes or no.
A bare majority to suffice in each case. Two
of the votes would be useless in a legal sense,
for the Constitution doesn’t provide for the
abolition of States or of the Commonwealth,
and the third would be of little use except
in an academic fashion, for though the Con-
stitution provides for the creation of more
States and State Legislatures by the sub-
division of the bigger of the existing mon-
strosities the method is absurdly complicated.
But in the struggle something might leak out
about the sinister motive which leads Com-
munists and repudiationists and their kind
to howl that this continent must be man-
aged by one Legislature of one House. The
tendency all the civilised world over is
towards small or moderate-sized governmental
areas, and the proposition that Australia is
the one wise freak in the habitable globe
is too thin.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“S.T.S.”: A nice point has been heard in
the Traffic Court in Adelaide. The police
said that a 35-m.p.h. motorist, on being
stopped, had tried to bribe them: “What
SPORT.
THE NEW CURATE: “No, I really don't play tennis. The fact is, I play a shocking
yanie.”
THE FLAP: “Oah! What is it?”
about taking half a note each and .saying no
more about it?” But his version was that
lie had merely offered to pay any fine on the
spot, rather than waste valuable time in
going to a court. The S.M., imposing a small
penalty for the speeding, said that the alleged
bribery was not a matter for him, though the
police, might “take any action they think fit.”
“Roga” : There are two public tattoo
experts in Melbourne, and, strange as it may
seem, girls are far their best customers. The
designs most favored are butterflies, hearts-
and-arrows, flowers, flags and snakes.
These are conveyed to shaven arms, legs
or shoulders by means of transfer papers,
and the colored inks are then forced under
the skin with an electric needle.
One girl with four different deco-
rations (she is a sailor’s sweet-
heart) told the writer that the
treatment “doesn’t hurt a bit.”
What does hurt, I learned from
another source, was when the
charmer regrets her embellish-
ments and returns to the parlor
to have them removed. I have
heard of a damsel whose back
bears a finely-executed sailing-
ship, which she is not above
exhibiting to curious friends. Mel-
bourne has another woman whose
body is adorned with a large
dragon, with the grim talons clasp-
ing her tightly round the waist.
“Henry Horsecollar”: Kind-
hearted people of Sydney are said
to be turning their dogs and cats
loose in the National Park to save
their keep and to avoid the
messy job of slaying them,
also to avoid the yowls of
hungry and abandoned animals that have
avoided death. In that leafy sanctuary lie-
large dogs arc reported to be organising
themselves into packs after eating the small
dogs, while a second generation of cats,
born on the premises, grow to enormous size
and pass themselves off for apprentice tigers.
Fears are entertained lest the ferocious ani-
mals may take to eating visitors along with
their vehicles and horses, or may combine
some day in an attack on the suburbs of
the metropolis. It is one of the many results
of the depression, and more strange beasts
may happen at any moment.
* * * *
“Blackall Range” : A new note was struck
at the Queensland Show in connection with
one of those “one-man farm”
exhibits which have come to
he so popular at functions
of the kind. Added to the
vegetables, grains, hay, fruit
and other farm produce was
a nine-months-old baby,
stowed in an open portman-
teau. This particular farm
product was a hefty and
amiable exhibit, and so much of a draw that,
when prizes were being distributed, Alex-
ander, as he is named, was handed a special
silver mug.
* * * *
“Wentworth Court”: That was a queer
point raised by Justice Long _ Innes the
other day when, in a letter pointing out how
greatly N.S.W, Judges must suffer from the
public-service salary cut, he declared that
Judges burned their boats when they stepped
on to the Bench —they could not return to
the Bar. There certainly have been Judges
in Australia who did not believe they were
under any such restraint. I don’t recall any
who appeared in court after leaving the
Bench, but I remember one whom we ail
loved who took chambers when the axe fell
upon him. He had talked for months about
the pleasure lie was going to get out of
resuming his old profession and mixing it dis-
creetly with golf. But alas! just when he
reached his retiring age the weather was
perfect, and he used to go off to the country
for week-ends. At first the card said “Back
Tuesday,” Then it was altered to Wednes-
day. Then to Thursday—and “Back Thurs-
day” became a permanent institution. But
to do him justice he never left before Friday.
To get back for a moment to learned Brother
Long Innes’s statement that the Bar is out
of bounds to the ex-Judge. There was an
Irish case, which went to the Privy Council,
whose learned lords expressed the opinion
THE SOCIAL PROBLEM.
“I hear Phyllis is not going
hack to her husband?”
“No, they figured it out, and
found that alimony would
be cheaper.”
which Judge Long Innes now quotes. But
while that might stop a Judge from stepping-
down from the Bench to the Bar before lie
reached a statutory retiring age, it doesn’t
follow that it would be a bar against a
superannuated Judge going back to his pro-
fession.
“Tuppence” : In Egypt the Digger learnt
to “gibbit baksheesh." but it took him a
long time to get the hang of the art of tipping
as practised in England. On my first Blighty
leave I saw a taxi-driver hurl two coppers to
the roadway and shake an angry fist at the
canny backs of his departing fares. “I arsk
yer,” I heard him mutter as I entered his
chariot, “tuppence fer a four-bob trip!” And
yet the very next afternoon a noble lord,
before entering the railway carriage where I
sat, presented tuppence to the porter who
carried his bag, and the recipient merely
touched his cap respectfully. When I gave the
artist who shaved me a shilling he thanked
me and added, “Please pay at the desk.”
“His proper tip,” said Brownson, “is tup-
pence.” Brownson knew his London, so
I asked him to read me the riddle. “The
golden rule, my son,” he replied, “is tup-
pence—tuppence in the shilling. A tenpenny
taxi fare—give him a bob; a five-bob lunch
—make it six bob. Porters, tuppence a
bag.” When I tried it, it worked like a
charm.
* * * *
_ “Friar Tuck”: It is stated that the Trap-
nist monks on the edge of the Roman Cam-
pagna have utilised Austra-
lian eucalypts among other
curative agencies for the
conversion of a fever-
stricken swamp into a model
farm; also that they distil
a liqueur from the imported
trees which comma *ds a
ready sale among their
crowds of visitors. Which
inspires me to a renewed
admiration for the beneficent
activities of these holy men.
Monks are about the only
people I ever heard of who
managed to make wine in
England. There the summer
possesses few fattening
qualities for the grape, but
there is evidence that they
turned out quite a creditable
article in the Middle Ages—
in fact, until Henry VIII.
shut down on the monas-
teries. The industry then
petered out and nobody has
ever had the enterprise to
revive it. Now the Italian
monk is to the fore again,
producing a stimulant “re-
sembling green chartreuse”
from gum-trees which Aus-
tralia nas never exploited for anything except
a vegetable oil.
“Sociologist”: No man or woman in the
world’s history has had so much advertise-
ment for so little achievement as Lindbergh,
who has done nothing of note but that stunt
flight across the Atlantic. One rarely visits
a cinema without seeing his sad, dogged,
stupid young face looking over the edge of
a ’plane. The rotogravure sections of the
U.S.A. papers are full of pictures of him
and his wife; “Judge” and “Life” have
Lindbergh jokes of a respectful nature _in
nearly every issue. And now he is flying
slowly, safely, round the world in what is
described as “the best machine money can
buy,” and the papers are reporting progress
as if he was doing pioneer work. Out-of-the-
way Australia, with a smaller population
than N. York State and very little money,
has produced a dozen airmen who are Lind-
: bergh’s masters in every department of the
game. The public interest in him is a myth,
: then —a bluff staged by America for its own
glorification? By no means. He is that
phenomenon, a naturally interesting person.
Norman Lindsay is Australia’s outstanding
example. There have been better painters
in oil and water-colors (Lambert), better
cartoonists (“Hop,” Low), better black-and-
white artists (May), but no member of the
local art world has so caught the imagina-
tion of the public. The I’rinee of Wales has
occupied an analogous position amongst royal-
ties for a generation. So has Greta Garbo,
in the movie world, though there are many
better-looking actresses and none with such a
frightful voice. You find them in every walk
of life, and the only thing that can be said
with absolute certainty about their mysteri-
ous quality is that it doesn’t run in families.
“10-2-4”: If you want to realise what the
movies can do in the bagman line, look in
any city shop window where men’s garments
are displayed. Until about 10 years ago
male Australia was English or nothing, sar-
torially speaking. The Aussie might be
drab, dowdy, shabby, but at least he wasn’t
flash. The nineteenth-century larrikin,
whose bell-bottomed pants and umbrella-like
bowlers derived from the Ikey fops of Lon-
don’s East End. was the last thing in his
line the country had known till the pictures
caught on. Now thousands of modern Aus-
tralians play golf in voluminous plus-fours
(sometimes garishly checked, sometimes of
white drill or flannel), polychromatic sweat-
ers or imitations of a film lumber-jack’s
coatee, and dinky little Yankee linen caps.
I have seen white buckskin shoes, festooned
insanely with black or brown leather, worn
with this blinding outfit, which, incidentally,
is often affected by pot-bellied old gents who
don’t play golf or any other game. Our
surfing costumes, male and female, are
straight from Hollywood ; so are a good many
male and female haircuts, and practically
all the suits, shirts and socks worn by our
lads of the village. Clerks tend to get them-
selves up in imjtation of “Buddy” Rogers,
and kerbstone loungers, urgers, nippers, tip-
sters, etc., after the Chi. gangster style. It
irritates many. I attribute the seven years
handed to a Sydney thug as much to his
weird Yankee clothes as to the fact that he
capped his counsel’s appeal for mercy with
“Yeah, giwus a bryke, Jedge.”
* * * *
“Chance th’ Ducks” : Thq latest addition
to the list of queer accidents occurred in
Westralia a few days ago when a railway
porter was shot by a mailbag; as he was
handling it a bullet suddenly emerged and
bored through his shoulder. A parcel in the
bag contained a “take-down” pea-rifle, with
an empty cartridge-case in the breech. It
hardly seems possible that anyone but an
idiot would send a loaded firearm through
the post, but your Australian is probably
the most casual devil in the world in such
matters. One reason is that he rarely gels
the training in safety-first methods and
the etiquette of shooting which ev<ry British
youngster has to imbibe from his elders before
he is allowed the run of gun or rifle.
“Lex”: Social reformers have persuaded
several councils in Sydney and Melbourne
to ban Sunday sport, and Manly, of all
places, has decided to stop surfing competi-
tions and the like on Sundays. The well-
meaning folk behind such movements never
consider their implications. Mediaeval Eng-
land was at least as sober as the U.S.A.
used to be in pre-prohibition days. Pro-
bably it was soberer. There were many
country districts in the midlands in the
fifteenth century where the inhabitants
hadn’t even sampled the thin ale of the
period, much less gin. Sabbath Day Observ-
ance legislation and the prohibition of Sunday
sports helped to change all that. At the
beginning of the nineteenth century the evan-
gelical Shaftesbury complained that “few
English workers were sober on Sundays who
could afford to be otherwise,” and it is the
same in parts of Scotland to this day. The
arrival of Sunday, cinemas gave millions of
English workers an alternative to pub-loaf-
ing. Recently in Southend, the East Enders'
Brighton, the movies were closed on Sun-
days. London “Daily Express” had this to
say on the “reform”: —
Clubs and public-houses are full of men and women,
many of whom, in the ordinary way, would have
been in the cinemas with their families.
Instead the children are left standing outside the
public-house doorways wondering when father and
mother are coming home.
Every one is asking: “Where shall, we go and
what shall we do?” No one can supply the answer,
and Southend is a town of dejection.
Many clerics think that if people are pre-
vented from amusing themselves on Sundays
they will go to church. It doesn’t, work out
that. way. In Australia, where there are
checks on hotel-drinking on the Day of Rest,
there would be a revival of home : drinking,
which has become unfashionable since city-
dwellers took to spending their Sundays in
the open.
THE ELEMENTALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Men, as well as nations, must cut out luxuries
and get back to the frugal elementals of living, such
as bread and beef and things like that.”
—English archbishop.
Beef, bread and beer should do for chaps
like us
In times like these, you surely will allow.
The impecunious and necessitous---
And, from the Judges down, who isn’t now?
Bread is enough. It irks me that Ive fun
A long account with certain trustful souls
For articles like the Vienna bun
And non-essentials, such as breakfast rolls
And various other farinaceous stuff.
Bread is enough.
Beef is enough. Herewith I cease to crave
Those palatable chops of pork and lamb
That gastronomical diversions gave
From the interminable eggs and ham.
The mutton saddle, smoking on the board,
Appeals to me no longer, as it .should,
Albeit, with onion sauce upon it poured,
I used to reckon it exceeding good.
Beef, if it’s not too leathery and tough,
Beef is enough.
Beer is enough. Strange gods I have pursued
(And goddesses) too long, like rum and
gin,
Whisky and brandy, things distilled' and
brewed
Within the pub I take my snakejuice in.
Cocktails with olives or with cherries spiced
Grip me no more. I’m positively through
With porter (heated) and with lager (iced),
Those hectic drinks I was addicted to.
Who calls for ale will suffer no rebuff.
Beer is enough.
Beer, bread and beef! When ev'rything is
said,
Our greatness as a nation rests thereon.
A continent, on beef and beer and bread,
We’ve lifted, from the Murray to the
Swan.
Give me a juicy chunk of porterhouse,
A bit of kissing crust, a foaming pot
Of ale, and whosoe’er may growl or grouse,
I say emphatically I shall not.
Bread, beer and beef —to each his quantum
■stiff.
That is enough.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mantrap” : “Trespass in pursuit of game,”
a common offence in Britain, is little
heard of here, but Sydney had a case
recently. One is reminded of a Queens-
land happening of years ago. A Bris-
bane citizen was staying with a Darling-
Downs grazier, whose neighbor was an eccen-
tric Engasnman, at duality teud with him.
After quail one day, the Brisbaueite unknow-
ingly entered the neighboring property and
while there shot a crow. As he did so tne
wrathful owner of the land turned up,
grabbed the intruder’s gun, and after
denouncing him for a thieving, trespassing
scoundrel insisted that he eat a mouthful of
the crow there and then. As the landowner
pointed the fowling-piece threateningly, the
visitor felt it diplomatic to comply. This
done, he was given back his gun and
ordered to get out. With the weapon
again in his hands, and the tables turned
thereby, he refused to do so until his
vis-a-vis had taken a mouthful of crow in
his turn ; after which the pair parted with
mutual execrations. A few days later in
Warwick someone introduced, them to one
another at the club. There was a glare of
mutual recognition. _ “What, you know each
other?” asked the introducer. “We-ell, we
have dined together,” said the Brisbaueite.
* * * *
“D.” : To be convinced of the relative harm-
lessness of Alsatians you need only to read
the press details of their attacks. In last
week’s Ryde (N.S.W.) case “the winner of
a first prize for the biggest Alsatian”
(“standing on its hind legs, the head was
level with the hat of a six-feet-tall man”)
“flew at its mistress’s throat,” then “secured
a grip on the back of her neck,” then went
for her son, “who had his coat torn and his
arm scratched.” Then the son shot it. In
other words, it was fighting half-heartedly,
as all Alsatians do; otherwise there would
have been at least two deaths in that family.
Look at the Alsatian jaw if you are in
doubt on the subject. The S.M. at Redfern
Court, who on the same day discharged a
pug accused of injuring a policeman, had
the right idea. “If this man,” he said, “had
THE STRAIGHT TIP.
“Now, young man, you’ve been coming here quite a lot; what do you want with my
daughter?”
“Well, sir, you know what you can afford.”
set out to give the constable a beating, he
could have done it.” I once saw a
retriever, half the size of the average Alsa-
tian, kill six .sheep in half as many minutes.
He then came at me, and if I hadn’t had
the luck to be carrying a gun I would have
joined the sheep. When retrievers attack
they mean business. Alsatians, the nerviest
of animals, nearly always run amok through
fright.
* * ♦ *
“T.P.”: Did you ever hear how the sys-
tem of teaching by correspondence began
in our State schools? Back in 1914 a wor-
ried settler, down from his lonely block in
the. remote Otway Ranges, bearded the
Director of Education in his Melbourne office
with “What about the schooling of my kid-
dies?” The director then was Frank Tate,
educationist of vision and very soft of heart
to those who were blazing the track. But
little even he thought that the scheme, set
at once into operation, would rapidly spr ad
through Australia and overseas. To-day 109
spec'ally selected teachers toil in the Corres-
pondence “school” of Vic. alone; and coun-
tries as far apart as Soviet Russia and Pata-
gonia have sought the advice of the branch.
And yet it would be criminal to put the
scheme on a pinnacle never intended ; noth-
ing can adequately replace the personal
influence of the trained teacher, whose power
for good extends far beyond the school walls.
«
“Hanover. J.” : An expert coiner, a young
man of 27. died the other day in Sydney from
too deep a whiff of
the cyanide fumes
released in the exer-
cise of his calling. He
loft behind such ind’s-
put-able proofs of his
skill as a counterfeiter
that it is conjectured
he was taught the
business in gaol by
some master of the
craft; evidently reput-
able trades are not
the only ones to be
acquired in modern
penitentiaries. The
ill - fated operator’s
florins were such that
policemen couldn’t tell
them from real ones,
and even bank clerks
might easily have been
deceived, but a sharp-
witted newsboy who
was experimented on
with one of them
jibbed at it. Probably
the newspaper-seller
is the most alert of
all traders in detect-
ing, by its mere feel,
a coin that isn’t what
it purports to be. It
needn’t be bad money,
either. Years ago
somebody rang in on
me a Canadian, five-
cent piece for the
thrippence of com-
merce. It was at
night-time, but when
in perfect inadvertence
I sought to buy a
newspaper with the tiny bit of silver it was
promptly and coldly rejected.
“Farleigh”: An estimable gentleman
named Baeyertz who has returned to Wel-
lington (M.L.) after an absence of 12 years
has been saying some hard things of Aus-
tralian speech and culture. The aver-
age Australian, according to Baeyertz,
is quite tone-blind. Even doctors, law-
yers and scientists often speak abomin-
able English, knowing no better. Also,
“the better-educated Australians admit
that the New Zealander is in a class by
himself compared with the Australian as far
as the appreciation of good art, literature
and music is concerned.” This is saddeu-
ing, but there is worse to come. Baeyertz
was so aggrieved at the “abominable broad-
cning of the vowels” indulged in by some
Sydney children during a garden game that
lie wrote a satire thereon and took it to a
local editor, a friend of his. Thar authority,
after getting the hang of the Baeyertzmn
strictures, haughtily remarked : “It’s a mis-
tyke to suppowse that way spake loike that
—we down’t!” The thing that puzzles me
(who am neither an Australian nor a Maori-
lander and therefore unqualified to pro-
nounce an opinion on the broader issues)
is why Baeyertz should have submitted his
satire to a man who, he must surely have
noticed before arriving at such a degree of
intimacy, was accustomed to “spake loike
that.”
“Iverg”: The French Government, accord-
ing to a cable, is thinking of breaking up
the notorious penal settlement at Devil's
Island, Cayenne, not so much because of the
pestiferous climate as because the numerous
escapes of convicts make trouble with
foreign Powers owning adjacent pieces of
the mainland. Kerguelen and New Amster-
dam, in the southern Indian Ocean, are being
discussed as more suitable island prisons,
They are certainly a long way from any-
where, but if either is selected it will be
hard on convicts acclimat'scd to equatorial
heat, the Devil’s Islanders being mostly l’fcrs
or long-sentence men. New Amsteixlam,
though in about the same latitude as Alel-
bourne, is a mere speck in a waste of waters,
and desolate, tempest-battered Kerguelen is
CONFIDENCES.
“What do you take to make you deep?—I take hot milk.”
“Oh, I take mum and dad and auntie.”
ten degrees nearer the Antarctic. The latter
is seldom visited/ except by an occasional
whaling boat, or when a ship is driven out
of her course and wrecked there. New
Amsterdam and the neighboring St. Paul are
almost as isolated since sail gave way to
steam- In the old days they lay quite
near the track of windjammers coming from
South Africa or Mauritius to Australia; but
even then they had few visitors except the
fishermOn who’arrived from Reunion at cer-
tain 1 seasons. Still, if half that has been
written about the horrors of Devil’s Island
is true, any change of venue will be for
the better.
• s * * *
'., , , ,
Effluvium : As one whose lot lias been
cast in the tropics, off and on, for years, I
note with apprehension that a radio expert
has devised a means of broadcasting what
he is euphemistically pleased to call “tropic
scents.” The olfactory impression that the
tropics have left with me is one of putrescent
mud in sago and mangrove swamps, coupled
with a strong smell of cocoauut oil and
wood smoke, the reek of opium and bhang,
and a general flavor of unwashed humanity,
The average Australian household into which
this tang was introduced would promptly
bold its nose.
* ... „
“Menadue”: I have often thrown a lighted
bumper into petrol, which only quenched
the glowing tobacco. And I had to
li&’lit four benzine burners every morn ins
with an asbestos torch soaked in the juice,
As the burners first required heating, like
a primus stove, the asbestos was red-hot
by the time the job was done, and I never
did more than blow out the flame and toss
the smouldering torch into half a gallon
of benzine. Sir Thomas iCrozier is quite
right when he says that “fires have been
caused by the vapor from a petrol-tank
reaching a distant acetylene light,” for the
simple reason that the vapor comes in con-
tact with a naked flame. “F.T.” (B.
19/8./’3l) needn’t worry about the garage
attendant who smokes near petrol; the
danger is from the man who stands near it
when he lights up.
... ° ’ ... ...
' ' "
Mica ’: That blouse of silk or voile, with
only brassieres underneath, is rightly termed
pneumonic. Look at these figures from
Broken Hill’s annual hospital report: Un-
derground employees, subject to rapid varia-
tions of temperature, but cased, in summer or
winter, at work or in the street, in flannels,
six cases and no deaths: other mine em-
ployees, not so particular with underneaths,
six cases and two deaths: other men, 14
cases and tw T o deaths: women and children,
72 cases and seven deaths
~ ... ‘
* *
‘ Merris”: Gas wasn’t the only auxiliary
suggested at Anzac for driving the Turks
out of their trenches (B. 5/8/’3l) ; a senior
officer with mining experience once rccom-
mended plain sea water. At Silt Spur, on
the right of our line, we overlooked Jacko
across a narrow valley, and the scheme in-
volved the employment of hydraulic mining
methods and apparatus. There was plenty
of water, argued the expert, in the Aegean
Sea, and water under pressure, if forced
tlirough suitable nozzles, would wash the
lurks into the valley and pave the way for
a victorious advance. Machine-gunners grew
quite enthusiastic over the prospect, but the
brass-hats laughed the idea to scorn.
* * ' * • •
Chessboard : Gallipoli saw another
medupval device-—the bow and arrow devised
by Major Midgeley, of the Queensland Light
Horse, for throwing flares into No Man’s
Land. The bows were strung with wire, and
the arrows had tufts of tow soaked in oil
attached to the heads. These were lit before
the arrow was fired and, after the missile
struck ground near the enemy trenches, flared
for some time. The flares burnt off low scrub
which might have concealed enemy scouts,
and at the same time kept intending investi-
gators chary of venturing out of then-
trenches.
*** . *
“Mells” : Looks as if the Italian can turn
to gold-mining as readily as to cane-growing.
In a couple of recent mining pars, dealing
with promising developments on Westralian
fields as widely separated as Coolgardie,
Mount Magnet and Meekatharra, only three
leaseholders are mentioned by name—Simon-
etti, Ruggeri and Rinaldi. There have been
thousands of Italians on the fields since the
early days, but mostly they were thickest on the
wood-lines, where they hewed fuel valiantly
and maintained their hereditary feud as far
as possible with any Austrians or near-Aus-
trians there might be in the neighborhood.
Also they worked small shows, and there
were plenty of them underground on the
Golden Mile in its heyday, but as a rule
they left prospecting to others. I can only
recall one mining camp out of scores that
was indebted for its name to an Italian pros-
pector, and that was Feysville. Incidentally,
Fey, a sociable and extravagantly-whiskered
venturer, always maintained that he wasn’t
an Italian but a Switzer, but he sometimes
acted as interpreter for the Latins in court
cases, and in a community that set no great
store on fine distinctions this was sufficient.
Outside of him the Italian whose name re-
eeived most publicity on the goldfields was
Varischetti, who was sensationally impri-
soned by flood waters in a mine at Bonnie-
vale and as sensationally rescued by diver
Hughes in 1907.
( '' * * . *
‘ Nikko : The catapult has its uses in
rove.as well as in war. A Maoriland youth,
forbidden by a stern father to approach the
domicile of his soul-mate, hit upon the in-
genious idea of conducting a correspondence
by this means. The lass used to leave her
upstairs window wide open while she went
down to dinner with her family, and with his
handy weapon the lad would shoot a note
attached to a stone into the room. This went
°u for weeks until father, who w 7 as contem-
PWing 'iterations to the house, wandered
i* dciug'ntei s loom when lie should
au 111 tle back ‘ bat ended the
* ~. ... ...
,
18 since Macaulaj
• ~s ^l oo 0y kn °ws
and who strangled
A ’.!i? F’ an j three generations of leader-
j' 1 s , P ? ay £ ul it un . at rpl ie ? mul '
«*.;f/ 1 M aca u 1 ay s sc h o °lhoy. The phrase
t m -! lf s^5 veS rpu? 1 t 2, ru ««2 scutcnee or hang a
®, n ' bus th e S. M. Herald only the
ot M er day . -
th has , l t !v, co ' llfortab,e certainty oi
M £ caulay sch ° ol and , the , Macaa,ay . schoolboy ;
-the humorous part of it is that in another
part of the very same issue the paper’s
book reviewer lays it down as an unassail-
able proposition :
Every school child is aware that Joseph Priestley,
* be sub -> ect ? f a “Life,” by Miss Ann Holt, was the
oxyB ' en- .
J ie °r she should be, but isnt there
®Y eiy aa raacb comfortable certainty
a h°ut tne exceedingly uncertain here t
t<v . ’ ~ (lAr ‘ ■ u-
“ s is hardly correct in his
/fo-. Po bcin S of Norfolk Ysland
(B. IJ/8/31). From 1.806 to 1913 the
work was carried out by local residents. This
proved unsatisfactory in a community where
all the inhabitants are so closely related; a
change was made 20 years ago, when an
officer of the N.S.W. force was appointed,
He remained there till 1924, when lie was
succeeded by a resident, not a Pitcairner,
* * * *
“M.D.”: What quaint ornaments women
sometimes wear! I have had three patients
lately whose decorations puzzled me. One
wore for a brooch a large flat black
stone, or what looked like one, set in gold;
a casual inquiry elicited that it was a lump
of Collie (W.A.) coal, sported apparently
for patriotic reasons. The second lady
had a belt with a silver buckle in which
were set two dark-looking curved claws,
about two inches long. I couldn’t have
guessed what they were in a month of Sun-
days; they turned out to be the big toenails
from the forefeet of a camel. The third one
had a posy of what appeared to be artificial
flowers of the most gorgeous hues. Actually
it was composed of the feathers of parrots
from Palm Island (Q.). which some of the
old abos. make up into these bouquets
THE TAVERN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a road a tavern stands
Where folk bide a little while,
Meet and mingle for a space,
Laugh and sot row, frown and smile.
Though for perfect peace they crave,
Peace stands off beyond th.ir reach :
And though ’neath one roof they dwell,
Each a stranger is to each.
Yearning for some star afar,
Burtlieued by some secret care,
Peering each into himself,
Lonesome are the dwellers there.
Song has said, and story said,
Just because of care or star, '
Underneath that tavern’s roof
Even lovers strangers are.
In that tavern each ..bides
For a lntie space, a..u then,
With a smile or with a sigh,
Takes the long, long road again.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


18ct. Gold and Platinum.
£lO/10/-
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
1m
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£3O
—it's quality that counts
In “Fx & R* Diamond Rings only the finest-quality blue-white
diamonds are used, set in platinum or gold and platinum.
As prices are all at pre-tariff levels, “Fx & R” Diamond Rings
are particularly good buying at the present time, because unless
the tariff is amended they must increase in value and price.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD., ‘^StSSSSSmSIr-
rvi
%_ ;
w
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Acting-Governor Irvine (Vic.) has set a
new precedent by coming to his office at the
old Treasury, Spring-street, with the regu-
larity expected from all other civil servants.
So the venerable building, which is just now
being titivated by expert stoneworkers, has
become the seat of government in a more pro*
nounced sense than it has been in all the io
years of Victoria’s existence.
There are 16 returned soldiers in N.S.W,
Leg. Assembly. Butler, Connell, Dunn, Kin-
sella, Lamaro, McDicken and Stanley are
the Labor Diggers; Ardill, Chaffey, Jarvie
and Shand are the Nationalist bunch ; Brux-
ner, Budd, Main, John Reid and Vincent
belong to the Country party.
Lord Stanley, of Alderley, who died in
England last week, was Governor of Vic-
toria from 1914 to 1920. tie was Sir Arthur
Stanley then, the eldest son of Baron Sheffield,
and a young man as State figureheads go,
being under 40 when he took up duty at
Melbourne. His term was an arduous one,
too, for it covered all the war years, and
he and his wife more than made good, no
vice-regal pair throwing themselves more
keenly into the recruiting movement and
work for the Red Cross.
Alan James Mansfield, counsel for God-
dard and Reid in the Mungana case, is the
youngest son of a one-time Queensland Dis-
trict Court Judge. Born 28 years ago in
Brisbane, he studied law at Sydney Uni.,
took his LL.B. at 21, and has practised in
Brisbane for six years. Two brothers are in
the medical profession: one of them is a
leading Brisbane eye specialist.
Professor Shann, who most times teaches
Economics at Perth ttni., has been lent to
the Bank of N. S. Wales, and now sits
within call of his old friend and fellow-
student general-manager Davidson, formerly
g.-m. of the Bank of Western Australia.
Shann is a great worker, and during the
last few months, in collaboration with Cop-
land, of the corresponding chair in Mel-
bourne, has produced two very handy volumes
Professor SHANN.
—-the later of them, “The Battle of the
Plans,” an account of the processes which
led up to the Premiers’ Plan, now being put
through. Shaun is a Tasmanian, 47, who
learned his economics at Melbourne and the
London School (he went there on a research
scholarship), and has mixed history with
economics in his teaching at Brisbane Uni.
(1911-13) and for the past 18 years at
Perth.
The sole recipient of the scarlet hood with
the amber silk lining which goes with the
Sydney Uni. degree of Doctor of Veterinary
Science is 32-year-old lan Clunies Ross, the
institution’s chief veterinary parasitologist.
He won it with a brilliant thesis on
“Hydatids,” written in 1928. The tall young
doctor has inherited much of his flair for
science from his dad, who was at one time
Sydney Technical College’s lecturer in
chemistry and metallurgy. lan is a Bathurst
and Newington boy; his Uni. honors list
included a Walter and Eliza Hall scholarship;
he studied at the School of Tropical Medicine,
London, and at Cambridge.
Everything was grist to the literary hull
of Edward Dyson, who passed over' in. Mel-
bourne last week after being terribly ill f Ol
years. Born at Ballarat, where his father
was a mining engineer, Edward spent a lot
of his early youth fossicking around the mul-
lock heaps, and the three nuggets that came
out of that were “The Gold Stealers,
“Below and on Top” and a book of verse
called “Rhymes from the Mines, most of
which had first seen the light in The Bul-
letin. When the family moved to Melbourne
Ted gravitated to his uncle’s paper-bag fac-
tory, and out of that experience of trade
and commerce came “Fact’ry ’Ands.” Later
he tramped Victoria with a hawker s boy,
and out of that came a batch of Lone
Hand” stories, reprinted in book form as
“Tommy the Hawker.” Dyson’s wartime
activities included a play, performed with
some success in Melbourne, a _ book of
verse and a patriotic song which enjoyed wide
popularity. He gave brothers Ambrose and
EDWARD DYSON.
Will and nephew Dick Ovenden their first
art training, being a draughtsman of some
talent himself. The most prolific freelance
in Australia, lie cherished his journalistic
liberty, though for a time he was on the
staff of the “Sun” in Melbourne. And he
once ran a page of comment in “Punch.”
called “Under the Verandah,” which brought
him into conflict with W. M. Hughes. The
Prime Minister was touring the States,
accompanied by a Parliamentary official
who was supposed to function as his
interpreter but found himself filling the
post of valet, Tired of being carted about
the continent the interpreter was moved to
sarcasm when standing behind Hughes’s chair
in a hotel in Adelaide. Billy happened to turn
round, and, being through his deafness an
expert lip-reader, .saw the remark and chased
the commentator into King William-street,
hurling chicken bones at him. Dyson’s re-
telling of this incident brought a letter from
Billy, in which hatchets were mentioned.
Dyson offered to fight with any weapons,
from rakes to lawnmowers. The incident
closed amicably. Dyson’s active literary life
led to a nervous breakdown eight years ago
from which he never recovered. He leaves
a wife and a daughter, who, at 14, already
shows the artistie talent that seems to be
endemic in the family.
J. B. Cramsie, who has been pushed o-ff
the N.S.W. Meat Board by Lang, has spent
a lifetime among stock, alive and on the
hooks. He went from Queen’s College, Mel-
bourne, to Central Queensland to begin his
pastoral experiences, and for 20 years con-
trolled pastoral properties in N. S. Wales.
Just before the war he toured Europe and
America to familiarise himself with the con-
ditions of the overseas meat trade, and seven
years ago he put the case for the Australian
meat producers before an Imperial commis-
sion in London. “The Management and Dis-
eases of Sheep in Australia,” which he
edited, is a textbook among Australian
stockmen.
August 20 was the birthday of Alfred
Stephen, N.S.W.’s distinguished Chief Jus-
tice, Lieut.-Gov. and P.C., who died in 1894
in his 93rd year. He had a family of nine
sons and nine daughters. Nearly all the
sons were lawyers, thus keeping up the
traditions of a remarkable family in British
legal annals. His father. John Stephen, and
his son Henry were both Supreme Court
Judges; his grandson, the present Justice
Milner Stephen, represents the fourth suc-
cessive generation on the Ma State’s highest
judiciary Three of Alfred’s family are
living—the youngest and only surviving son
Ernest, of Ashfield in his 84th year, and
two daughters. Miss S. Consett Stephen
and Mrs. A. Montgomerie Severn.
John Hepher and Nicholas Buzacott are
the two survivors of the four Laborites
appointed to the N.S.W. Leg. Council by
Reid in 1899 as a return for Labor support
in the Assembly. The other two were John
Estell, spokesman of the Newcastle coal-
miners, who afterwards resigned and secured
an Assembly seat, and James Wilson, then
president of the P.L.L. Both died within
recent years. Hepher was a representative
of the Trades and Labor Council, and Buza-
cott of the A.W.U. and the Barrier miners.
The former, who took his seat first, can now
claim to be the “father” of the Council.
Major-General Ms-ckay is the only other
Leg. Councillor whose appointment dates
back to last century.
11l health has obliged J. J. Woods,
county clerk for Tuap,ka (M.L.), to resign
his position after 54£ years’ service.
It was John J. who set to music the
Dominion’s National Anthem, “God Defend
New Zealand,” written by Tom Bracken. A
competition in IS <5 drew a big field of com-
positions, which were forwarded for adjudi-
cation to three leading Australian musicians
—Zelman, Zeplin and Siede. Each of the
judges awarded John. J. Woods’s settting
first place.
Robert Gray, dead in England recently at
a ripe bid age, was one of Queensland’s out-
standing pioneer squatters. As a young man
lie served in India with the old 97th regiment
and was at the relief of Lucknow. His stories
of the taking of the Kaisarbagh, and the days
of/Slaughter as court after court of the huge
palace was taken by bloody hand-to-hand
fighting were calculated to curdle the blood of
his hearers. A visit on leave to Australia
resulted in marriage to an Australian girl
and a resolve to leave the army and settle in
Queensland. 1 After a period of cattle raising
on the Burdekin, he pushed out to the upper
Flinders and there took up Huglienden
station, still one of the finest sheep properties
in the State.
Richard Palmer, dead at 94, was a
Hawkesbury native whose first-hand memo-
ries went far back into the mist. He was
in Sydney when the Dunbar was wrecked,
and was one of the rescuers of Johnston, the
lone survivor of that catastrophe. H’e was
the oldest of all Cobb and Co.’s erstwhile
drivers, and his experiences included encoun-
ters with bushrangers. His coach was
bailed up by Stapleton, Rose and McGrath
between Wallerawang and Cunningham
Creek; the passengers were robbed and
the mails looted, but the gold escort,
which the robbers hoped to get, had gone
through a day previously. Later, while driv-
ing the Armidale coach, Palmer was present
at’ the shooting of Crowley, who had stuck
up a hotel, by Constable Bowen. Richard
left the box to keep a hotel on the Hawkes-
bury; two sisters survive him, both over 80.
A. G. Carne got a special word of wel-
come from Chief Justice Murray on admis-
sion to the Bar of S.A. Born in the Islands,
where his father was a Methodist mission-
ary, Carne went to school at Prince Alfred’s
in Adelaide, and is a B.A. of Adelaide Uni.
He was at the Gallipoli landing, and returned
from the war a captain and an M.O.
W. J. Affleck is “head of the Show” in
Brisbane—-in formal language, president of
the Royal National Agricultural and Indus-
trial Association ; and when a man reaches
that honor Queensland hasn’t much greater to
offer him. Among his comparatively recent
predecessors were Lieut.-Gov. Arthur Morgan
and Chief Justice Pope Cooper. The Show
W. J. AFFLECK, president of the Brisbane
Show.
just over is the 50th which the society has
held; and though there have been years when
more money was spent during Brisbane’s
great fortnight, there has never been a time
when the arrangements were better. And old
hands say there was never a Show crowd
either which was surer of the great future of
Queensland.
Hamilton Knight, M.L.A., member for
Hartley (N.S.W.), chairman of the Shale
Committee and chief dispenser of the
£lOO,OOO which the Commonwealth has put
at its disposal, will earn a statue or mem-
orial bowser or something if he can make
a “do” of Newnes, where work was re-started
last week. But maybe it is his way of
repentance: for in the old days it was said
that it was largely Knight’s influence among
HAMILTON KNIGHT, of Lithgow.
the men which made it impossible to work
the narrow Wolgau seam at a profit. Knight
was in those times a big force among the
Lithgow miners (Newnes is in that area),
who later on sent him to the Assembly as
successor of, among others, .Toe Cook and
Jim Dooley, one later a Prime Minister, the
other a Premier. He is still only in his
early forties, and did his first mining work
on the Sofala diggings.
Michael Mornane, over whom the grave
closed at Ivew (Vic.) last week, was one of
the best-known solicitors in Melbourne. Tie
had practised since 1882, so successfully that
he had considerable suburban property, and
he was honorary legal adviser to St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. Of his four sons
to law and one to medicine. He was 75 at
the end.
Ex-Prime Minister Lloyd George, who has
been suffering from his first serious illness,
was 68 last January. Not only has he filled
a place in public life achieved by no other
man in this generation, but he has been in
the House of Commons longer than any other
member. It is an unusual combination, the
so-called “Father of the House” being more
often than not a person who has been con-
tent to take Parliamentary life easily—such
as the late T. P. O’Connor, who antedated
the present Liberal leader by five years—not
one who has been a determined fighter, in
office or out of it, all his days. Lloyd George
has been M.P. for Carnarvon since he cap-
tured it at a by-election in 1890.
Ken Dufficld, the S.A. pastoralist and
librettist, has had an offer from Dion
Titherudge to collaborate in the production
of some more musical plays for the London
stage. He will leave for Europe at the end
of the year to start work.
“Yalgoo”: Mention of our present Post-
master-General’s capacity as a bricklayer (B.
5/8/’3l) should include the fact that the
two cottages which he built at Kalgoorlie
in his sp re time contained very few whole
bricks. They were “bats” bought at a brick-
yard on the old Bu’ong-road, and a capital
bargain “Texas” made over them. The first
time I ever saw the present Labor Minister
still remains fresh in my memory. It was
in 1895, when Hannan-street was a dusty
waggon track bounded on each side by a few
corrugated-iron shops. The post-office mail-
room was a small humpy built of bush timber
and hessian, and “Texas” was engaged at
the delivery window, dressed to suit the gold-
fields summer in a shirt, dungaree trousers
and a pair of mortar-splashed boots. The
eastern mail was just in, and I happened
to hear a disappointed applicant for letters
remark to his mate: “Looks as if any blanky
navvy could get a job in this adjectival
Groper post office.”
R. Iv. Peck, the American aviator, whose
death in a crash has been reported from his
native land, was well known in North Queens-
land and Papua, where he was flying-man
for the Americans searching for new sugar-
cane stocks to replenish the fields of Florida
and Cuba, Before that he had considerable
experience of tropical flying in TVeli N w
Guinea with an ethnological expedition sent
out by the Smithsonian Institute. Peck's
Papuan flights were responsible for the nota-
tion of many new features in the topography
of the country, among them being the dis-
covery of Lake Herbert Hoover, which lies
elo e to the junction of Dutch New Guinea,
Papua and Mandated New Guinea. He was
killed trying out a new' design of ’plane.


CONVEYOR
FOR SALE
Length 225 feet, width 3ft.
6in., with 12-h.p. 480 motor.
At present installed in tlie premises
formerly owned by Keep, Macpherson.
Ltd. (in liq.), and recently purchased
by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Tlie conveyor as now placed diagonally
through the building lifts 96cwt. from
the basement to the 7th floor every
four minutes.
AN ABSOLUTE BARGAIN
Apply THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 87971.
The WILD CAL COLUMN
The Conversion Loan
In less than a fortnight £260,000,000,
nearly half Australia’s internal national debt,
has been voluntarily converted, or promised
to be converted, into new securities on the
basis of a 22-1 P.c. cut in interest rates.
It is an encouraging and unequivocal answer
by bondholders in respect of their part of the
plan which is designed to reduce the aggre-
gate deficits of the Governments by about
£26,000,000 during the current financial year,
leaving, it is hoped, a gap of only £14,000,000
to be bridged at June 30 next. The various
Governments have all brought down legisla-
tion dealing with other parts of the plan,
though much yet remains to be done. Alto-
gether it is the most definite step so far taken
to arrest the drift and avert a crash. The
conversion appeal closes on Monday next, and
those who do not signify their dissent will be
deemed to have converted their holdings.
Success, which seems assured, will help to
re-establish our national credit. No penal-
ties for non-conversion have been announced,
but it would be too much to expect that
those who voluntarily make the sacrifice
asked for will suffer more than those who
do not. Every holder of Government secu-
rities of any description, Commonwealth or
State, who has not converted, should got
into immediate touch with a bank —any bank
—which will direct him what to do.
Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 155,843 8 p.c. = 153.892 1,951 15,187
1921.. 183,978 8 „ „ 170,574 13,404 28,591
1922.. 182,973 8 „ „ 173.621 9,352 37.943
1923.. 168,721 8 „ „ 195,660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ „ 216,921 22,883 33.887
1925.. 232,918 8 „ „ 237,752 29,053
1926.. 259,169 8 „ „ 261.109 27,113
1927.. 291,913 8 „ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928.. 348,362 8 „ „ 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 8 „ „ 324,204 35,294
1930. . 310,573 8 „ „ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
Owing to steadily mounting costs —mainly
coal and labox* —this co. advanced the price
charged for gas from 4s. 4d. per 1000 c.f. in
1918 to ss. 9d. in 1928; the charge has
remained steady since. Nevertheless, for the
two years to the close of accounts in 1930,
the standard 8 p.c. div. took £64.249 more
than the declared profits. That was because
the stoppage at Maitland involved the co. in
extra costs aggregating over £260,000, of
which £203,550 was charged against the
special purposes and depreciation fund, re-
ducing it to £77,985 —it is the only back-
stop the co. has against contingencies beyond
the management’s control. So the gas con-
sumer continues to pay for the coalminers’
folly and the earlier coalowners’ gi’eed.
Last year a shrinkage of 9.2 p.c. in con-
sumption (0609 million cubic feet) resulted
in a drop of £193,941 in gas sales, and returns
from residuals, meters, etc., were £41,712
lighter, making the contraction in revenue
£235,653, as the following table shows:—
Revenue:— 1928. 1930. 1931.
Gas sales .. £1,962,392 £2,092,987 £1,899,046
By-produets .. 239,779 229,380 190,028
Meters, etc. .. 58,463 57,317 54,957
Expenditure:—
Manufacture and
distribution.. 1,410,256 1,535,145 1,269,831
Other charges.. 190.940 156,473 195,239
Interest, etc. .. 130,887 160,493 164,957
The lower price and better carbonising quali-
ties of Maitland coal and improved methods
show up in savings of £265,314 in the cost of
manufacture and distribution. But other
charges and intei’est made off with an extra
£43,240; so, after transferring £216,066 to
the special purposes fund, there was a slip
of £12,635 in the net result, which was 7.2
p.c. on capital. There was only £17,067 in
the cupboard, so a point was knocked off
the div., reducing it to 7 p.c.
But that rate is in doubt; the Govern-
ment is contemplating legislation to control
the price of gas. N. S. Wales gas cos.
were first harnessed by statute in jAI2, when
Carmichael’s Act sought to regulate quality,
price and divs. The experiment broke down,
having failed, amongst other things, to pro-
vide for increased costs. Instead of 10 p.c.
on old and 7 p.c. on new capital, the
amended Act of 1918 aimed at standardising
the div. at 8 p.c., and made the question of
allowances for depreciation, etc., more
explicit. At the moment a reduction in the
price charged by the co. for gas can only be
effected by further limiting of the div., or by
reducing the allowance for special purposes
and depreciation. On capital as it now
stands (£4,110,000) a cut of 1 p.c. in
the div. would be equal to l|d. per 1000 c.f.
on the basis of last year’s sales. For special
purposes revenue can be charged with 31 p.c.
of the capital outlay on buildings and plant
(in at £6,452,911 at June 30). The amount so
charged by the eo. since 1918 is £1,783,225,
about 86 p.c. of the statutory allowance; it
has been spent £1,342,268 on replacements,
and £254,763 mainly to meet the exti-a cost
of coal, etc., due to strikes. The fund stood
at £222.513 at the close of last accounts, or
about half the maximum allowed under the
Act. There is nothing to suggest that these
appropriations have been in excess of require-
ments, and to starve the fund will certainly
mean trouble for shareholders in the future.
The £6 shares fetch £5 3s. in the market;
at which figure the return is 8.1 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. Moreover, premiums on
shares auctioned since 1918 make 7 p.c.,
worth on the avei’age only 6.4 p.c. on more
than half the capital. Further reduction of the
div. cap only result in capital loss to share-
holders, and render new shares unsaleable at
auction, thus checking necessary development
to the detriment of the community. One way
in which the Government could help to bring
down the price of gas is to buy more of the
co.’s tar and other by-products, thus follow-
ing the example set by Victoria.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1921.. 12,174 7 p.e. = 14,578 46,275
1922.. 32,978 S „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923.. 33,740 S ~ „ 16,860 16,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,226 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO .. .. • • 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.o. = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Reserves cap talised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.c. = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
Last season opened with wool averaging
£l3 12s. a bale in Australia; the price
dropped to £9 7s. 9d. in January, the lowest
reached since the hard times at the beginning
of this century, and the interim div. was
passed. Then the spring in exchange and
stronger competition at the sales, especi-
ally from Japan, lifted the price to £l4 3s.
2d. for March. But the average for the 12
months to the close of accounts was only
£ll 2s. 10d.. or £2 2s. lid. less than the
previous year’s figure. Still, the co. put an
extra 4550 bales under the hammer, due pro-
bably to the previous year’s carry-over. The
co.’s handlings were:—
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 , 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 . . 117,550 232,501 32,676
1926 .. 179,002 366,643 26,671
1927 .. 188,075 441,919 30,168
1928 .. 175,682 352,199 19,869
1929 . . 189,190 341,399 30,714
1930 . . 182,221 485,958 37,243
1931 . . 186,801 518,125 26,099
Sheep sales were a record, the hide-and-skin
department was busy, and the Queensland
business, including the machinery section,
was well maintained; but there was an all-
round drop in prices,, and fewer fat cattle
were sold. So, after providing for contin-
gencies and taxation, there was a drop of
£5923 in the year’s profit, which was 7.3
p.c. on capital as against 8.7, 11.9, 14, 15.8,
15.8, 14.7 and 19.3 p.c. back to 1924. and
a point was snipped off the div., reducing it
to 6 p.c.. The £7730 that remained visibly
lifted the tangible support and protection for
capital to £143,445 —goodwill, not treated
as an asset herein, figures at £41,983.
Chief danger lies in the possibility of
clients being unable to stand up to their
commiMnents. To make advances with a
book value £88,682 in excess of shareholders’
net tangible funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), and carry other assets totalling
£257,133, the co. is necessarily a heavy bor-
rower :
1090 IQ9S 1030 1031
Capital .. £205,755 £414.018 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 461,352 553,490 369,015 315,815
Freeholds .. 160,856 199,965 200,949 200.949
Plant, etc. .. 35,687 31.656 29,668 30,216
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 769,684 732,127
Investments and
cash . . 21,396 21,865 21,929 22,999
Consignments 1,916 2,969
The year’s surplus earnings, £28,818 added
to the overdraft (£46,822), and a reduction
of £37,547 in advances enabled £81,518 to be
knocked off the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£268.993). The spring in the
more or less liquid surplus (£442.280, includ-
ing advances) was £19.682. Much depends
upon the size of the contingency fund. So,
although the seasonal outlook is bright
enough, the market prices the pound shares
at 14s. 9d. as against 28s. 6d. a couple of
years ago. At the lower figure the return is
8.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 255. 9d. in net tangibles.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £L £/ SL
1919 . . 20,644 7,500 13,144 149,003
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 134,003
Provident fund, £5OOO .. .. 129.003
1920 .. 20,564 8,753 615 11,196 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 130,199
12 1 p.c.
1921 .. 24,495 12,250 2530 9,716 139.914
1922 .. 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148.280
1923 .. 27,468 14,375 3000 10,093 158,373
1924 . . 28.259 15,625 3995 8,639 167,012
1925 .. 30,500 17,600 2600 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 .. 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194.350
1929 . . 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
There was a net growth of £2,128,976 in the
volume of trusts on the books, yet gross
profits slipped £4228. That was because
frozen markets, especially for real estate, and
the reduction and passing of dividends and
inability of many mortgagors and tenants
to meet their obligations affected corpus
and other commission earnings:—
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 . . £8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1916 . . 12,604,680 37,818 28,328 74.9
1921 . . 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1924 .. 23,683,701 95,781 71,078 74.2
1925 . . 25,637,073 101,220 74,774 73.8
1926 . . 26,969,507 107,362 79,846 74.3
1927 . . 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1928 . . 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 . . 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 . . 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 . . 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
The extra cost of handling the bigger busi-
ness was £4580, due mainly to taxation. The
premises renewals account (£1443) was
tapped for £3557, but £5460 net as against
£5573 in the previous year was added to the
commission reserve (£91,576, which is the
unearned portion of corpus commissions).
So there was a shrinkage of £12.484 in the
net result, which was 12.7 p.c. on capital
as against 18.9, 19.8, 19.2. 19.8 and 19.7 p.c.
back to 1926; the 2-1 p.c. bonus sent out
with the 10 p.c. div. for the preceding decade
was dropped, and the final div. was reduced
to 8 p.c. p.a., making 9 p.c. for the year.
This surprised the market, which had
already lost some of its enthusiasm for the
scrip, owing to the uncalled liability—paid
capital is £200.000 in 100,000 shares of £lO
each paid to £2; the remaining £S includes
£5 callable only in the event of liquidation.
Hence 535. 6d. is offered, but sellers stand
off at 625. after previous sales at 655. as
against 84s. a year ago. At 60s. the return
is 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Since
capital has the support and assistance of
£234,314 of reserves, including the fidelity
fund (£10,000), the two combined would
have to earn only 3.6 p.c. net to cover an
S p.c. div. At the moment this does not
appear to be beyond the co.’s capacity, not-
withstanding the downward trend of rents,
lighter returns from Government securities
and fixed deposits, and probably mortgages,
too.
Of course the liability on the scrip cannot
be ignored, though apart from the chance
the co, takes when investing its own funds it
really does not have to risk much. It may,
of course, make mistakes, but when the
management is in doubt about the meaning
of a will there is always the Court to go to
for instructions.
At the close of last accounts there was
only £4071 coming to creditors. Cash hold-
ings totalled £44,971; public securities
figured at £95.487; book debts. £5916; pre-
mises appeared at £115,000, a conservative
figure.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
Dividends and Written
Jane, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1921 .. 12,198 7 p.c. as 9,291 2750 12,541
T 1922 . . 30.478 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 27,850
1923 .. 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 52,672
1924 .. 18,014 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.e.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2V60 45,114
1926 .. 19,983 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 49,988
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73,048
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 .. 42,000
1927 .. 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 43,954
1928 .. 17,801 10 ~ „ 12,419 2500 46,836
1929 .. 20,690 10 „ „ 12,419 7500 47,607
1930 . . 11,747 8 „ „ 9,935 2500 46,919
1931 .. 812 5 „ „ 6,210 41,521
No large orders were secured, and competi-
tion for small ones was so keen that there
was little profit in the work. Gross earnings
(£9090) were less than half the previous
year’s, while the cut in exes. (£8278) was
£1485, leaving only £Bl2 net. Nothing was
visibly set aside for depreciation; previous
contributions are included with profits in the
table, and then written off. But finances are
snug and times are needy, so the board
showed no reluctance in raiding reserves for
£5398 to pay a 5 p.c. div.
Including two special bonuses, shareholders
have had an average of 12.8 p.c. over the
last decade, and free reserves (£41,521 at
June 30) have been strengthened by £28,980
net. Also, approximately £40,000 was spent
on remodelling the plant, and the improve-
ments were written off out of reserves created
for the purpose. The new machinery is
specially designed for the construction of
Diesel oil-engines (two were built during the
last - term) and pulverised coal plant, the
idea being to bridge the gap caused by the
restricted demand for locomotives and sugar-
mill equipment, which had been the backbone
of the business for the last 20 years. Still,
we have entered upon a period of reconstruc-
tion in which the outlook is obscured by the
state of the public accounts, frozen credits,
the downward trend ,6f prices and the stub-
bornness of overhead. Hence the pound
shares, which fetched 275. a couple of years
ago, are on offer at 17s. 6d. The backing
amounts to 265. Bd. in net tangibles, of which
21s. 4d. is represented by surplus liquids,
including stocks and Government securities,
etc., at cost.
Here is the position as balance-sheet figures
disclose it:—
1918. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities .. 33,890 86.361 74,756 75,584
Fixed assets.. 47.350 33,158 24,425 33,042
Stock-in-trade 25,873 35,231 42,968 42,502
Investments .. 52,050 101,102 86,730 101,730
Completed work,
cash, debtors,
etc. .. 58,316 143,471 101,681 70,235
Debtors’ balances (£62,855). a troublesome
item these days, were £20.368 lighter than
at the close of accounts in 1930. and cash
(now £29) was drawn upon for £15,142. The
book value of investments, mainly Govern-
ment securities, increased by £15,000, and
work in hand (£7350) by £4062. and there
was a net addition of £8617 to fixed assets.
Altogether the more or less liquid surplus
(£138,883) slipped £17,740.
The co. is obviously well equipped for a
period of difficult trading.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. , To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Old. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 16,332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25,948
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 „ ~ 12,382 2148 28,096
1929. . 16,595 2635 10 „ ~ 12,479 1481 29,577
1930.. 13,064 3712 74,, ~'.9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced,
£1965 V. ... 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 71 p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
A couple of years ago the co. was supply-
ing over half the corset requirements of the
Australian market; since then the tariff has
been bumped up, exchange has jumped to
over 30 p.c. premium, and more of the trade
has come the co.’s way. So, after meeting
all outgoings and handing the staff £2681
as against £5703 for the previous term in
profit-sharing divs., the board exhibited an
extra £4565 of profit for the 12 months to
June 30. Allowing for the pref. div., there
Avas enough to show 10.9 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 7.4, 11.2, 11.7 and 11.1 p.c. back
.to 1927. The div., reduced from 10 p.c. to
7| p.c. in the previous term, was kept at
the lower rate, and. until the co, becomes
more solidly entrenched, better should not
be expected.
It is an enterprising concern, built up
mainly through the energy and foresight of
its managing director, Fred Burley, and its
prospects are as encouraging as can be ex-
pected, in these troubled times. The Maoriland
subsidiary, which reports increased sales. pa.id
the usual 10 p.c. div. (this was sweetened
with a one-for-five gift issue in 1929), and
the Victorian offshoot declared a “satisfac-
tory” rate on “slightly-reduced profits.”
Early in 1930 operations were extended to
England, where Berlei (U.K.). Ltd., in
which an English corset-manufacturing con-
cern is also interested, was soon in full
swing at Slough. Good progress is reported,
but trading figures have not yet been made
up; preliminary exes, are likely to swallow
the first term’s profits. Also the rights in
the co.’s type indicator and trade-mark for
tlie U.S.A. were sold during the year for
‘a satisfactory figure,” and inquiries have
been received from other countries. Tim
book value of patents, etc. (£2935) shrank
£1995. Laddaloc, a little knitting con-
cern in which the co. was interested, has
gone into liquidation and made a first pay-
ment of 4s. a share on the prefs.
To carry an extra £31.755 of book debts,
add £4915 to the investments item and £l4Bl
to the stocks figure, the board leant upon
sundry creditors fo c a further £15,652 and
increased the overdraft by £13,657: —
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital,. £157,436 £108,436 £176,867 £176,958
Mortgage ~ 26,000 26,000 26.000 26,000
Overdraft .. 34,266 40,009 50 13,707
Sundry creditors 15,200 12,838 21,927 37,609
Freehold . . 58,660 58,660 58,660 58,660
Plant . . 18,314 10,530 15,680 13,210
Investments . . 33,458 36,710 51,549 56,464
Stocks .. 121,634 131,366 115,364 116,845
Book debts . . 33,83 S 29,242 16,206 47,961
Cash, etc. .. 2,002 1,908 2,074 2,055
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£59,545, including stocks but not invest-
ments) was £3878 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance. The position is governed by
the soundness of debtors’ balances and the
figure at which stocks appear.
The prefs.—so,ooo of them carrying a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c., with priority as to
capital—fetch 18s. in the market. The
return at that figure is 8.8 p.c., and the
backing £4 ss. Id. in net tangibles. The
ords. are held mainly by those in the busi-
ness.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
Pref.
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 7,525 2000 4 p.c. = 11,526 121,749
. Loss.
1922.. 20,746 2000 Nil 144,495
Profit.
1923.. 36.857 8000* Nil 115,638
1924.. 27,725 4000 5 p.c, = 16,368 108,281
1925.. 21,410 4000 5 „ „ 16,368 107,239
1926.. 5.892 4000 Nil 105,347
1927.. 30,115 4000 6i p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 71 „ „ 24,552 98,218
1929.. 31,385 4000 71., ~ 24,552 95,385
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ ~ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 l|„ „ 6,138 99,784
'lncludes arrears.
Depreciation of the £ Australian added
£31,691 to the year’s exchange purchases—
the co. buys its raw linseed chiefly from India
and S. America—thus gobbling up the sav-
ing which the management made in other
directions and all but a few hundred pounds
of the year’s profit besides. Of course, lighter
sales and falling markets,-especially for the
oil and the demands of the taxgatlierer had
their effect, too.
Gross earnings (£81.161) were £12,172
lighter; while exes. (£80,544, including ex-
change charges and something for bad debts )
made off with an extra £18,839, leaving only
£617 net. Still, provided proper allowance
has been made for contingencies and finances
permit, these are days when shareholders are
entitled to a little of what was put in the
cupboard when circumstances were more
benign. So, after pref. requirements had been
attended to, a div. of If p.c. was handed to
the ords., though visibly reserves had to be
tapped for £9521 to do it, reducing them to
£15,964. But goodwill figures at £115,748.
so £99,784 of the capital is unrepresented by
tangibles.
The year’s quieter trading is reflected in
a drop of £35 998 in debtors’ balances and a
growth of £23,547 in the book value of
stocks: —
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 44,419 124,004 72,452 61,113
Premises and
plant .. 158,733 158,866 162,282 162,717
Stocks . . 86,257 133,040 89,519 113,066
Book debts . . 58,314 77,016 79,176 43,178
Cash, etc. .. 24,543 41,342 30,811 _17,875
Drafts for linseed shipments (£12,316) were
£36,147 lighter, and £5688 was knocked off
the amount coming to sundry creditors. But
the board went to its bankers for £30,496.
and drew upon cash, etc., for £12,976 ; so
the slip in the more or less liquid surplus
(£95,196, including stocks) was £14,088.
Much depends upon the figure at Which stocks
appear.
For many years the demand for linseed
meal as stock food greatly exceeded the
demand for the oil, and the co. did not get
much benefit from its expanding output.
Relief in this respect promised to follow the
recent development of the lino, industry here
—for which this co. is largely responsible—
and .the arrangement made with Blundell.
Spence and Co., of London and Hull, to use
their trade-marks. But the position in the
exchange market, and the unsettled state
of things generally, have clouded the outlook.
On the market the fully-paid pound ords.
fetch 7s. 6d. as against 14s. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure would be 6.7 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. The backing is 13s. 3d.
in net tangibles, mainly plant, etc., worth
what it can earn. The 10 p.c. cum. prefs.—
20.000 firsts and a like number of seconds —
seldom come on to the market.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


1o h
its
a
■ m
m
.
£
Some
things
still
remain
sterling
in value *..
in
cigarettes,
this means
Capstans.
10-6
20-1/-
Also in Boxes of 50 and 100: in Tins
of 50 and Oval H eavywei ghts.
Made in. Your Own Country at the Garden Factory—-
Raleigh Park—by W. D.Sc H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
CAPSTAX
MEDIUM AND FULL STRENGTH
HELP THE NATION CONVERT YOUR BONDS
I


Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney.',
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
❖
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent'
obtained. Coin,isos & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writ,
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Pioneer Wood Pipe , and Storage Tanks are ideal
equipment for the conveying and storing of any
class of liquid. Comparison with metal pipes or
tanks show they cost, considerably less, an<J in every
other way save expense and ensure thoroughly effici-
ent service. Non-corrosive, light, strong, durable and
unaffected by heat, frost and electrolysis. Send for
particulars to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Koad (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove.
Y.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sore.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used al!
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
<amjD
i
B
v 3
5/
88
itn
They would be guaranteed
a regular monthly income
JV/lOST insurance policies provide for the payment of a
lump sum on the death of the person insured, or when
he reaches a certain age. For the widow and family to
draw a regular income they have to invest that sum —and
invest it wisely.
Herein lies a pitfall for many. Tempted by a promise of
large profits, they put the money into a bad venture, and lose!
The A.M.P. has a new kind of policy that eliminates that
risk—a policy that guarantees a definite and regular income
to the beneficiaries (or to the person insured, at a certain age,
if that is his wish).
Under this policy the insured may secure to his widow and
family (or to himself) a yearly income of £75 or £l5O, or
any multiple of £75, for 10, 15 or 20 years as he elects.
This is income from the sum assured at the rate of 1 5 per
cent, annually.
But that is not all! In addition to this regular income, all
accumulated bonuses are paid at death (or maturity) and,
at the end of the stipulated period of income, the amount of
the policy (£5OO or £lOOO or whatever it is) is paid to the
beneficiaries.
If you want to ensure to your wife and family (or yourself)
a continuity of income, you should investigate this policy.
Large Reserves-
-Best Results
Telephone or write, for a Booklet that gives full particulars.
If you wish, an experienced officer will be sent to explain
the plan.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Assets: £83,200,000. A. C. HOLJLINGWORTH, General Manager.
Zinc Corporation
This co.'s property at Broken Hill made
" l . .P 1 of £137,156 in 1929 and a loss of
£41,874 last year. But the co. lias large
investments, and these and a cut of £12,403
in administrative exes, enabled the co. to
show a profit of £68,380 as against £246,050
the previous year. On account of the crash
m metals the co. had to write down the
excessive stocks in hand. This called for
£146,000, of which £44,850 was provided out
ot a contingency account and the balance
charged up against the year’s revenue. At
the end of 1929 the co. had £195,823 of cash
in hand and liquid balances (loans to other
cos.) ; at the end of 1930 it had a debit of
£137,955 —a swing of £333,778. In the
same time it has had to sell £143,470 of its
investments. The £477,248 which these
amounts total has gone into the Kembla
works (£165.320), the Central Tower Plant
(just about ready—£l29.47l) and in financ-
ing the excessive stocks of metal: at the
end of the year the co. had on hand no less
than 30,000 tons of lead alone.
In all at Broken Hill. owned by the several
cos., there are 100,000 tons of lead awaiting
sale. _lf the cos. threw any large quantity
of this on the market there would be a
further crash, and the price might easily fall
pounds. On what it sells neither this nor
any other co. at _ Broken Hill can make a
profit worth mentioning, if any profit at all:
this co., as shown, made a loss last year.
In the circumstances it would pay the co.
best to shut down the mine altogether and
wait for a recovery in metals. It decided,
however, to keep going as long as it could,
but, in order to prevent the further building
up of stocks of metal, to knock off one week
in four. (Metal stocks represent money
actually spent in wages, coal, timber, haul-
age, etc.; and the co. simply hasn’t got the
money to go any further in that direction.)
It is at this mine that Broken Hill’s latest
strike has occurred —as usual, over a trifle
to start with: a cut in the contract price
for breaking ore in one stope. There was
the usual pull-out; and when the men were
ready to go back, the co.—apparently fed up
—announced that it. regretted that for the
future it could work only half-time instead
of three-quarter time. Then the 800 em-
ployees sat down and did some thinking: and
finding out that they could get the dole,
decided that this would pay them better —
and” apparently it does.
So the: State is now keeping these 800 men
and their dependants, and probably their de-
pendants. And nobody minds —least of all
the co., whichJiasn’t now to see its ore used .
up at no profit to itself, or the other cos.,
which hope to see their own stocks of lead
a little more quickly absorbed. Only the
unfortunate taxpayer gets it in the neck.
Further scout-boring for oil in Vic., when
funds are available, is recommended by
Whitehead, Sec. for Mines, Baragwanath,
Director of Geological Survey, and Prowse,
Chief Mining Inspector, in a joint report
which the Cabinet is going to consider.
Referring to the boring done near Lukes
Entrance, East Gippsland, the report says
that pumping has yielded up to 1000 gallons
a week. A large area to the west and south
of the country tested by the Mines Depart-
ment and companies remains unexplored. At
first sceptical, and then cautious, the depart-
mental officers seem to be now impressed, if
not sanguine.
* * * #
For the 12 months to March 31 South Kal-
gurli Consolidated’s 40-head of stamps and
four ball mills put through 97.576 tons of
stone for a net profit of £32,995. including
£18.954 exchange premium. The previous
year’s profit was £31,716. Divs. (2s. 6d. per
share) took £31.250. There was £16.341
coming to creditors; cash, bullion, etc.,
totalled £56 081; investments, £67.212;
stores, £Bll6. The property has been written
down to £3B 000, and plant to £l, The
blocked ore reserves are figured at 214,000
tons averaging Sidwt., and there is 142 *W)
tons of probable ore expected to go 6|dwt.
per ton. which ar n on the up grade,
are the doubtful item. The fully-paid 10s.
shares fetch 14s. lid. on the market.
Monthly expenditure at the Lake View and
Star now approaches £50,000. An army of
surveyors are at work below ; it is considered
that large quantities of pay ore exist in sec-
tions hitherto regarded as blanks, and Chaffers
shaft is being sunk with all haste in order to
be ready to pass up the good things expected
in 18 months or so.
Advice has been received privately in Syd-
ney that the F.M.S. last week decided to
increase its tin restriction quota from 25 p.c.
to 60 p.c. This because for the first six
months of the restriction scheme there had
been over-production in Malaya to the
extent of some 4000 tons. The new quota will
apply for the remaining months of the year;
it is not expected to have any immediate
effect on world’s prices for the metal, but
many of the cos., which have mst been inly-
ing working costs on the original quota, are
beginning to count up how much they have in
the till.
Rawang Tin Fields, which amalgamated
three of Alluvial Tin’s properties in the
Rawang and Serendah Valleys in 1929, netted
£24,117 for the 12 months to March 31. There
is £20,945 brought forward, making £45,062
available. The cost of two months’ stoppage
under the restriction scheme was £2804.
After reserving £20,000 for removal and re-
erection of No. 1 dredge and the sluicing
plant, the credit at p. and 1. was £25 062.
The plant recovered 784 tons of t.o. at an
average cost of 3 13-16 d. per yard. There is
£876,000 of capital to feed in fully-paid 10s.
shares. These are offered at 4s. 9id. on the
market.
Kuala Ivampar Tin Fields, another Allu-
vial Tin amalgamation, recovered 797 tons
of t.o. from 3.619.000 cubic yards, at an
average cost of 2 15-16 d. a yard for the year
ended March 31. The accounts put trie profit
at £20.354. and, with the balance brought:
forward. £45,874 was available. Deductions
from this total £26 535; two months’ stop-
page £2427; written off. £4lOB ; reserved for
electrification of No. 1 dredge, £20,000; leav-
ing £19.339 to go forward. Paid capital is
£585.000 in 1,170,000 f.p. shares of 10s.
each. They are priced at 6s. 2d. on the
market.
Kramat, one of Alluvial’s latest ventures,
is paying 6d. sterling per share on its
£165,000 of capital on August 31.
QUEENSLAND PROBATE TAXES AND
POLICIES.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
On June 3 an inquirer was told that bene-
fits receivable under a life policy are tax-
able for probate, and it was very doubt-
ful if a man transferred Ms policies to his
wife that they would escape taxation, especi-
ally if she could not prove that she had paid
all the premiums. Would this apply to a
policy taken out in Queensland under Sec-
tion 19 of the Life Assurance Companies
Act 1901 of Queensland? —5154.
Yes. The provisions of Section 19 of the
Queensland Assurance Companies Act of
1901, so far as they are relevant, are as
follows:
19—(1) A married woman may effect a policy
upon her own life or the life of her husband or any
life wherein she has an insurable interest, for her
separate use, and the same and all benefits thereof
shall enure accordingly....
(2) A policy effected by any man upon his own
life, and expressed to be for the benefit of his wife,
or his children, or any of them, or by any woman
upon her own life, and expressed to be for the
benefit of her husband, or of tier children, or of her
husband and children, or any of them, shall create
a trust in favor of the objects therein named, and
the moneys payable under any such policy shall not,
so long as any object, of the trust remains unper-
formed, form part of the estate of the assured, or
be subject to his or her debts.
By the Succession and Probate Duties Acts
(Q.), two duties are levied, viz., probate duty,
at the rate of 1 p.c. on all property coming into
the hands of or recoverable by the executor
by virtue of such grant; and succession duty,
which is levied at rates varying from 1 p.c.
to 25 p.c. according to the value of the
estate, the relationship of the successor to the
predecessor, and the domicile of the suc-
cessor. Both duties are frequently referred
to as probate duties, and insurance companies
have for many years past issued what are
termed Probate Policies which it is claimed
are exempt from both probate and succession
duty.
In regard to probate duty a claim that poli-
cies issued under the section above quoted are
exempt is probably well-founded. Tlie pro-
ceeds are, it is said, invariably paid to the
person it is intended to benefit by the policy,
and are not recoverable by the executor. The
Stamp Duties Office is assured that the in-
variable practice of the insurance cos. is to
pay the proceeds to the beneficiary and not
to the executor on production of the grant
of probate.
In regard to succession duty, however,
assessments have always been made by the
Stamp Duties Office in respect of such poli-
cies, and this practice is supported by the
opinion of leading counsel in the State.
In fact, it has never been challengedbut
latterly insurance companies have been issu-
ing these policies and at the same time get-
ting an intimation from the assured, if he is
the husband, that all notices in regard to the
payment of premiums should be directed to
the wife (who is usually the beneficiary in
such a policy) , and it is contended that
when these formalities have been complied
with no succession duty is payable in respect
of the proceeds on the husband's death. In
such circumstances the Stamp Duties Office
has always advised inquirers that the pro-
ceeds are liable to succession duty; but that
possibly payment of this duty might be
avoided if it can be shown on the death of
the husband that the wife has made-payment
of the premiums from her own separate
estate. And by payment they mean a genuine
payment, and one that, is made bona fide, and
not a payment which, although purporting
to be made by the wife, is in effect made from
a fund provided by the husband with a view
to evading the payment of the duties imposed
by the Succession and Probate Duties Acts.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
I have £3OO in Commonwealth Bonds,
1935, which I am converting. I am to suffer
a reduction of 22-?.- p.c., and on inquiring at
the bank they told me that I would be issued
ivith £3OO of the 4 p.c. and get £6 6s. 2d.
premium in cash. How is the amount of
premium arrived at? What is it f0r?— 5299.
Yours is 6 p.c. stock. A 22} p.c. cut of 6
p.c. would be £1 7s. p.c.; so you would be
entitled to a stock bearing interest at £4 13s.
p.c. But as no stock is to carry more than
4 p.c., you have to get the 13s. p.c. in some
other way. The sum which the actuaries
worked out in such cases was, therefore:
What is the present value of 13s. paid in
two half-yearly instalments for four years
(or whatever the unexpired period of the
loan was) ?
I hold a few Commonwealth Bonds matur-
ing December, 1931. If I do not convert unll
the money be paid when due? I am not young
and do not want to convert for long periods.
—5247.
Nobody knows what will happen to uncon-
verted bonds. The Government’s powers of
taxation with regard to them are unlimited.
It is certainly not to be expected that those
who do. not convert -will be permitted to have
any advantage over those who do convert;
but you can give notice of dissent, stating
your reasons, and chance it. Converted bonds
■will be. saleable, so that it will be possible
to get their market value at Dec. 31 next.
(1) Arc policy-holders in the People's Pru-
dential Co. entitled to any cash returns? (2)
If not, are they .entitled, to any concessions-,
on new policies issued to them by any absorb-
ing co. ? —5155.
(1) Any cask return to policy-holders of-
the People’s Prudential Co. is dependent upon
the liquidator realising on the assets, and
as these consist largely of mortgages, which
cannot be negotiated under present con-
ditions, there is little likelihood of any such
return to the old policy-holders until con-
ditions return to normal. (2) The arrange-
ments suggested to the liquidator for speci-
ally favorable terms to be . offered to the
policy-holders for the continuance of their
policies under the guarantee of the Assur-
ance and Thrift Association have not been
finalised, as the liquidator was unwilling to
effect any arrangement pending the settle-
ment of various legal questions. If any
policy-holder will communicate with the
Association, however, it will, we are assured,
endeavor to grant him the most favorable
forms possible on a new policy, though it is
impossible to state what such terms would he
until the nature of the original transaction
with the People’s Prudential and the table
under which he was insured are known.
(1) What is the chemical composition,
specific gravity and hardness of hypersthene?
(2) Value or use of same? (3) Ditto par-
ticulars of natrolite? (4) Have dear quarts
crystals any monetary value? What is the
minimum size of value?- —41)80,
(1) Hypersthene is a silicate of iron and
magnesium.- It lias a hardness of from
5 to 6 and specific gravity of 3.5. (2) Ii
is not used industrially, and is of little dr
no value, except when of a quality capable
of being used as a semi-precious stone. (3)
Natrolite, a member of the zeolite group of
minerals, is a hydrous silicate of sodium and
aluminium. It has a hardness of 5 to 5.5.
specific gravity of 2 to 2.5, and is of little
or no value. (4) Clear and certain smoky
quartz crystals arc of commercial value.
Crystals weighing from lib. to 251 b. each
and free from cracks, bubbles, grains or
clouds are worth from £2O to £2OO per ton
in America, the price being dependent upon
the particular purpose for which the crystal
is suited.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J. 8.5.; It is quite true, as The Bulletin
said, that there is no provision in law to meet
necessitous eases. What will be done with non-
converted holdings nobody knows M.H.: A.J.S.
Bank suspended April 21, 1893 G. 8.: (1) A
“Wild Cat” analysis now in type. (2) No
M.A.H. : .Risks everywhere ; but that at least is
sound.... F.W.S.: Until things are more settled,
better leave it where it is L.8.G.: If safety of
principal is important, definitely no E.IJ.S.:
\\ hen file forests are realised. All costs, including a
commission to the co. of 5 p.c. of gross proceed',
are chargeable against bondholders' account.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Happiness in a Crown Colony
Dear Bulletin,— “lnner Temple” and
"Geoloin'’ (B. 19/8/’3l) draw attention to
the mess in which our electoral system has
landed us. but neither suggests a remedy.
Obviously we have the wrong types of men in
Parliament, and we wall continue to get the
wrong types until we scrap our pre-selection
and party system of government.
I spent ten years of my life in the Malay
States, where nobody has a vote. I saw
contented workers on rubber estates with
their free schools, free hospitals and free
maternitv wards, and I managed mines where
I had a happy labor force working an eight-
hour day and receiving a wage that was
double the amount required for food, cloth-
ing and shelter. I travelled over excellent,
well cared-for roads, and in railway trains
which were not only paid for, but worked
at a profit. When I received my salary, it
was mine, and the harder I worked the more
I earned and nobody penalised my industry
by collecting income tax from me.
Of course it was “only a Crown Colony” ;
but the Governor with his Council, made up
of officials and nominees, looked after the
interests of some 35, various nationalities dif-
fering in color, creed and physique, and did
it in such a way that in ten years I never
heard the word strike mentioned, nor ever
knew of a man going hungry or homeless.
A similar system is possible in Australia.
The official members of the Council would
be the heads of such departments as Railways,
Customs, Defence, etc., and would so give us
the services of such men as Gibson and
Monash. The unofficial members would be
nominees of the unions, Chambers of Com-
merce, etc. No man would be robbed of a
vote, but a Council, so constituted would
automatically contain an expert on any sub-
ject which came up for discussion.—Yours
faithfully, Bohong.
After 60 Years
Dear B., —Which is the greater menace
to Australia- —Capitalists or Communists,
banks or Bolsheviks, Latham or Lang? Of
course, that’s easily answered. Is it? Just
hold your horses a minute.
I am asking the question from the view-
point of the men who are carrying Australia
on their shoulders, the primary producers.
They are the only creators of wealth; every
manufactured commodity is merely a meta-
morphosis of some earth-product. The men
who produce the raw material are subject to
the vagaries of weather and climate, the
vicissitudes of world’s markets and the
chicanery of politicians, and they get the
least return for their labor, oftentimes no-
thing at all, and' for the last two years have
been eating into their capital.
It cannot be otherwise when every pro-
ducer has to keep ten non-producers Who
gobble up the damper the moment it is out
of the ashes. The most voracious of this
hungry mob are the banks and the Commu-
nists. The former exact interest rates so
high as to make production at present prices
quite hopeless; the others encourage sabotage
and ca’canny methods, adding costs to imple-
ments, transport, etc., that the indispensable
man must use. The two working in co-
operation are just Hell. If they do not put
their hobnails into these parties the primary
producers must inevitably crash, and with
them crashes Australia.
I am an old man ; took up a selection in
1870 and am still living on it; have gone
through droughts, fires, floods, good times
and bad; periods of high and low prices;
fought anthrax, rabbits, burrs, labor agita-
tors and other pests and won through. Now
I’m afraid. Only a miracle can save us
from serious trouble. But I’ve got a gun,
and if the worst comes to the worst I
honestly don’t care whether it’s a banker
or a Bolshevik that gets my final bullet. —
Yours etc., Valerin.
The N.S.W. Ration Ticket
Dear Bulletin, —I met an old friend who,
like many other good men, had been forced
to go on the dole. He showed me his ration
ticket, which purported to provide the neces-
sities of existence for himself and wife and
two children (2 and 4 years respectively).
In recent years great discoveries have been
made concerning the relations of diet to
health and growth. Apparently, although
many people in N. S. Wales have heard of
these discoveries, the Government has not.
A diet to maintain health and promote nor-
mal growth must contain certain substances
(vitamines, amongst others) found abun-
dantly in natural foods. If these substances
are lacking even in part in a diet fed to
growing children, they will suffer inevitably
in growth and health and in direct propor-
tion to the deficiencies in the diet. A first-
year student in dietetics could and did p ek
out these deficiencies in the list I saw; nor
were they minor deficiencies. The cost of
a diet more nearly approaching the optimum
requirements is not greater than the cost of
the diet now provided. I know not who
compiled this one, but I do know that he
was guilty of gross negligence in not obtain-
ing advice from someone who knew more
about dietetic requirements, particularly
those of children.- —Yours, Quack.
Taxing the Wrong People
Dear Bulletin, —It is time the basic
principle of taxation was examined. How
absurd it is that the good citizen is taxed,
not only to enable the bad citizen to go free,
but to keep him in idleness as well. The
more a man produces to feed his fellow-
men, the more he produces to clothe them,
the more work he gives so that the goods
of his fellow producers may be purchased,
the heavier he is taxed. Why not make
income tax payable by all who cannot show
they earn over a certain amount? I know
they will not have the money; therefore
they will have to pay in labor. Nothing
could be better for either them or the coun-
try.—Yours etc., Emell.
The Human Tick
Dear B., —I enlisted the aid of several
friends who, like myself, have been impressed
by Bulletin teaching, and very carefully
we took an occupational census of the pas-
toral township in which we live, and which
is fairly representative of all pastoral dis-
tricts. The figures show that 16.47 p.c.
support almost all of the remaining 53.53
p.c., and those so supported, excepting the
producers’ own families, live in greater com-
fort, Avith more freedom from anxiety than
those on whose bowed shoulders they ride.
At least 20 p.c. are utterly superfluous, and
about 7 p.c., comprising excess publicans,
bookmakers, gamblers and unemployables, aie
actively harmful to the community.
Currency reform and so on offer no imme-
diate remedy to a small community, but a
well-thought-out scheme of co-operative trad-
ing is possible and eminently practicable,
and would do much to lower the appalling
cost of living in the country districts, as
well as forcing some of the human ticks
into usefully productive callings. But the
pastoralist must actively help ; and the bigger
the pastoralist the more help is it his duty
to give.
During a fairly long career I have come
across only one case of absolute unanimity,
and that is the unanimity with which the
pastoral workers condemn pastor Mists as
bad, selfish and unfaithful employers. _ No
one need care a sprat whether that opinion
is justified or not, but all should care that
that opinion is held to such an extent as
to seriously endanger the welfare of the
pastoral industry. It would do much to re-
move that bad feeling, and to unite both
classes in friendship, if the pastoralist would
openly give financial and moral support to
the scheme of co-operative trading.
I know, and respect, a great many graziers
both large and small; every one of them pro-
fesses to have a horror of Communism, and
yet they remain obstinately blind to the fact
that we have reached a stage when Com-
munism is being seriously discussed at shed
and hut, on the pub verandah and round
the camp-fire, as within the scope of prac-
tical Australian politics. This can be checked
by the scheme how advocated. It is not
a cure for all our economic ills, but it is
a good beginning, not unduly costly to ini-
tiate and certain to bring good results. In
any event, when the menace of Bolshevism
is threatening our rural communities, some-
thing will have to be done, and done quickly.
—Yours, Babcoo Bill.
The Servant Who Is Master
Dear B., —It is doubtful whether this planet
has been plunged before in such a general
state of gloom as it is to-day. Conditions
everywhere are strikingly similar, and there
is the inevitable inference in all cases that
the change has been caused by modern
humanity’s itch for raising masses of people
to higher planes, so called, for which they
are quite unfitted. The world to-day is full
of people who WOlild have been contented
a ii d useful members of the community if
they had not been
jambed in masses
through the cramming
houses of State educa-
tion, so called, much
as fowls are fattened
in France for market.
It is those folk,
blatant, self-sufficient
and supremely unheed-
ing of all that matters
outside their own
dreadfully narrow
horizon, who have
been elbowing their
way into the counsels
of our own Empire,
and by their ignorant
handling of Imperial
affairs threaten to
smash it. No greater
curse has ever been
inflicted on humanity
than the hoisting of
the professional prole-
tarian to political
place and power. In
every country where
this has happened the
intruder is proving a
destroying influence,
and. like all his kind,
his last thought is to
build up again. The
cause he champions
has been the happv
hunting-ground, not of
the real workers, but
of the countless scav-
engers who cling to
his coar-tails for their
own ultimate benefit.
—Yours. Centurion.
What the Farmer
Might Do
Dear B., —It is
obvious that increased
agricultural production
is essential and also
that work must be
found quickly for the
young men of the day.
Why not make an
appeal to the farmer
to save the country?
He has done it before
and can be depended
upon to do it again.
If every farmer who
holds unfilled arable
land were to give it
over to share-farmers
of the right type, not
only would exportable
production be boosted
but an immense num-
ber of men could be
engaged. It would be
easy to muster the
necessary share-farm-
ers—during the past
decade an immense
number of young Brit-
ishers and Australians
have passed through
the agricultural _ col-
leges and training
farms, and have sine
gained practical ex-
perience as rural
workers. Every prin-
cipal of a training
farm who is interested
in his job could put
liis finger upon scores
of ex-students who are
eminently fitted to take up share-farming,
who would know jusi wuue to turn tor
information upon any doubtful point, aud who
could be relied upon to produce maximum
crops. The move has to come from the man
oil the land. Will he make it? —Yours,
Fikestick.
A Bonus on Wheat
Dear 8.,—-From our grief-stricken sister
in the West comes another demand for com-
pensation on account of injuries of which
the lady is alleged to be in constant receipt.
The Westralian annual conference of the
Primary Producers’ Association decided
unanimously in favor of an inter-State or
all-round bonus (in fact, a Commonwealth
bonus) of Is. per bushel on wheat. I am
frankly of opinion that any State which
wants a bonus on its own wheat for the
benefit of its own farmer should have any
bonus it wants, and pay for it, thus paying
and receiving the money itself. This has
always been provided for in the Constitution.
The bonus would do no harm to any other
State, or to the farmers of any other State,
and would give nobody any undue advantage
or disadvantage over anybody else in the
foreign or any other market. But the idea
that the bonus should be a Federal affair
means that everybody would pay equally,
and the State with least population would
be taxed least, and the one with most wheat
would receive most. Taking the crop of
1930-31 as a basis, the Federal Treasurer
would have to raise about £10,780,034 per
annum, and it would be subdivided about
as follows—
Payments. Receipts. Profit.
Westralia . . £699,000 £2,650,000 £1,951.000
S. Australia • • 965,450 1,770,000 804,550
Lo“s.
Queensland .. 1,584,530 237,764 1,346,766
N. S. Wales . . 4,165,000 3,409,050 755.950
Tasmania . . 366.054 22,500 343,554
Victoria -. 3,000,000 2,690,720 309,280
£10,780,034 £10,780,034
As for the monotonous threat of secession,
I don’t suppose anybody outside of West-
ralia would fee) any special emotion if that
State were to secede and set up a hostile
tariff against its eastern neighbors, so long
as it gave some reasonable security regard-
ing its debt, which the Commonwealth has
unfortunately guaranteed. But so far I
don’t know that one secessionist has
made a single mention of the public debt,
and if all the nursing and petting of alleged
grievances is intended to lead up to some-
thing in the way of absconding, ill-feeling
seems almost inevitable. —Yours faithfully,
Solomon M.
Bank Charges
Dear Bulletin, —There are quite a number
of ways in which the Premiers’ “plan” is
not being carried out. One of these is in
connection with the annual charge for keep-
ing accounts in the Commonwealth and other
banks. As officer in charge of the salary
section of a Government department, I
have seen a large number of current
accounts closed recently—solely because the
charge for keeping them has not been reduced.
I submitted the matter to the Governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, who replied that
“while feeling sympathetic towards your sug-
gestion, I regret that at the moment it is
not considered opportune to take steps in
the matter.” If the present time is not
“opportune.” surely no time will be? —Yours
faithfully, Tas.
Parents, Children and State
Dear Bulletin, —Recently several anxious
and embarrassed parents have approached
me and asked me to see John or Matilda.
They explain, with a certain air of self-
accusation or perhaps self-excusation, that
their child has reached the age when “certain
things” should be explained, and that they
themselves do not feel equal to the task.
They shrink from it so much that even iu
these hard times they are prepared to pay
the doctor a fee to do it for them.
This, of course, is an old story, but is an
ever-recurring story, and a very important
one, the facts of which should be, but are
not, faced squarely by many parents. I
know; I have every reason to know; I am
a family physician.
At the age of puberty the sexual glands
of every healthy boy and girl commence to
pour certain substances into the blood
stream. These substances stimulate the till
then dormant sexual instincts. The child
then for the first time becomes aware of
sexual sensations and desires, and becomes
interested in the phenomena of sex. The
atmosphere in which this knowledge is pre-
sented and 'acquired can and does play a
big part in the child’s future health and
happiness.
In my opinion it is the parents’ job to
present this knowledge. But unfortunately
very many parents do not recognise the im-
portance of the matter, and have no idea
how to approach the child.
The Department of Public Health prints
and distributes gratis many excellent pam-
phlets on scarlet fever, influenza, venereal
diseases, etc. The addition to this list of
a pamphlet setting forth in plain language
and correct terminology the facts
of sex, with some suggestions to parents con-
cerning methods of presenting them to their
children, may help. It is to be hoped, how-
ever, that the department would be a little
more active in distributing this pamphlet
than they are with the other excellent docu-
ments they compile.—-Yours, Family Phy-
sician.
A DIFFICULT CLIMB.
THE LITTLE CHAP: “Good Lord! There goes Dad!”


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: TRIAL BY JURY
AND
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
Commencing Saturday.
CRITERION: CAPE FORLORN
, Commencing' Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC
yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lt slices : Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) j !^ ia l by , Jur /’’
v “The Pirates of Penzance
Criterion (com. Sat.) “Cape Forlorn”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Duchess of Dantzie”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
St atb Movies and Talkies
♦
Extraordinary Experience of an Occa-
sional Theatregoer:—
For years I have waited for the birth
of an indigeneous Australian theatre.
Imagine my delight, therefore, when I
opened my favorite morning paper and read
an announcement of the forthcoming opening
at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, of an Aus-
tralian Grand Opera Season!
Imagine me finally ensconced in a position
of vantage. I glance around me. The
theatre is packed with fellow-Australians,
all similarly infected with a sense of the
importance of the function. The musical
director raises his baton.
The overture is a revelation. In a lan-
guage we can understand it speaks to us of
our own toils and tribulations. Into it the
composer lias poured all his passionate affec-
tion for and knowledge of his native coun-
try. The opening bars ring with the defiance
hurled by the early pioneers at the sinister
unknown natural forces arrayed against
them; chord by chord the battle rises in in-
tensity ; further and further the flocks and
herds spread like an irresistible flood into
the mysterious interior; the dark forest
begins to fall before the wheatgrower; armed
with drought-resisting wheat, the Mallee
settlers penetrate into the ten-inch rainbelt;
at first, merely as a whisper from the horns,
the scientific protective tariff begins to rise,
until behind it can be heard the exultant
clanging of gigantic hammers and the hiss of
molten metal pouring out of the B.H.P. roll-
ing- mills.
The theme changes. The composer is
speaking to us of the never-ending struggle
“ The flapper is not really a
flapper.”
for human
liberty, renew-
ed, as it had
to be renewed,
in this new
continent. As
the last con-
vict ship turns
her bows back
towards the
Heads, the
shout of tri-
ll mp h which
arises from
the brasses
turns into the
groans and
cries of the
patriots
wounded at the
Eureka Stock-
ade, mingled
with demands
from the
whole orches-
tra for repre-
sentative gov-
ernment and
destruction of the iniquitous Colonial Gover-
nor dictatorship; for votes for women, pre-
ference to unionists, free and compulsory
primary education, repeal of the War Pre-
cautions Act and destruction of the iniquitous
W. M. Hughes dictatorship; for voluntary
reduction of interest, with compulsion if
necessary.
The tempest of sound subsides, as if
exhausted, but it rises again to a grand
finale in which eternal hatred and defiance
of all tyrants. Labor, Communist or Capi-
talist, is mingled with hopes of the eventual
success of the internal conversion loan.
Silence. Frantic applause. It was a long
overture, but not a note too long for its
heroic subject. The curtain rises.
The play is set in 1932. The Communist
revolution has been successful in Sydney.
The Fascist revolution has been .equally suc-
cessful in Melbourne. The unemployment
problem has been solved in both places. The
unemployed of Sydney are all in uniform and
marching to confer the blessings of Com-
munism on Melbourne, and the Melbourne
unemployed are all in uniform and marching
to confer the blessings of Fascism on Sydney.
Both are drawing the highest wages ever
paid to any army. The industrial problem
has also been solved. The factories are
working day and night turning out muni-
tions.
But that is only the historical background
to a drama of human passion. Bridget
Maloney—how one’s heart thrills at the
honost-to-goodness Australian names of the
characters!—Bridget Maloney, a beautiful
-and celebrated dancer on the Tivoli circuit,
is swinging her legs, insured for £lOO,OOO,
from the office desk of William Smith, secre-
tary of the Plasterers’ Laborers’ Union,
Incorp., at the Trades Hall, Melbourne.
William is secretly a Communist, and in
between his counter-revolutionary activities
is engaged in a love affair with Bridget, who
is also sought after by General Tardy, the
“Accuses William of infidelity.”
Fascists dictator, a notorious libertine.
In an impassioned aria Bridget accuses Wi-
liam of infidelity. She has seen him taking
a flapper into a Bourke-street bughouse—
again, how the heart of every picture theatre.
goer thrills at hearing grand opera sung in
his native tongue!
William denies it. She affirms it. At last
he confesses. The flapper is not really a
flapper. She is the noted Communist agent
provocateur, Josef Wintergarten, sent from
Sydney to spread ten-or and dismay amongst
the Melbourne Fascists. Reunited, the pair
break into a passionate duet, ingeniously
harmonised to “Tipperary,” sung by a bat-
talion of soldiers off to the river Murray
front, who are passing in the street below
them.
The duet is interrupted by the entrance of
General Tardy with his myrmidons. They
seize William, accuse him of being in collu-
sion with Wintergarten. and demand to
“The pair break into an impassioned duet.”
know the whereabouts of his accomplice.
II? proudly refuses to tell them. They take
him offstage and torture him by compelling
him to survey an Australian-made talkie.
Bridget, herself tortured by the sufferings
of her lover, reveals the secret, and William
is released from his agony and imprisoned
to await execution. Bridget implores the
General to spare William’s life, and to this
the cunning and unscrupulous Tardy con-
sents only on one condition —that Bridget
shall yield to his advances. She is horrified
at his infamous proposal and refuses. In
vain she appeals to Tardy’s mercy, and at
last, realising that he will carry out his
threat and that her refusal will mean her
lover’s death, she weepingly 1 consents, but
demands a safe conduct for herself and Wil-
liam to South Australia.
The scene changes to General Tardy’s
luxurious suite in the old Federal Govern-
ment House, whence Bridget
has been transported. The
table is laid for supper. Tardy
gives instruction in Bridget’s
presence for a. mock execution
of William at sunrise on the
following day at the Russell-
street police station, and
arranges that Bridget shall be
admitted beforehand to warn
him. He then writes out the
passport and turns to claim
the entertainment tax.
“At last, Bridget, you are
mine!” he exclaims exultantly
as he advances to embrace
her; and at that moment she
snatches up the carving-knife
from the table and plunges it
in his heart, and he falls,
dying, to the ground. Plac-
ing an empty champagne
bottle on each side of his
head, she creeps away, locking
the door and putting the key in her pocket.
Afar off can be heard shrieks and explosions,
followed by a mournful chorus of weeding
women. A Communist air raid is developing.
The curtain rises in the last scene upon a
quadrangle at the Russell-street police sta-
tion. William is preparing for death. To
him comes Bridget, who shows him the pass-
port which is to give them freedom, and tells
him of the murder of General Tardy. She
tells him that the execution is to be only
a mock one with blank cartridges, and warns
him to be sure to fall to the ground imme-
diately the soldiers fire, and remain motion-
less until she tells him it is safe to rise. She
laughingly bids him farewell.
Bridget watches the “execution” from the
■walls of the old Melbourne Gaol adjacent.
The soldiers fire, William falls and Bridget
cannot repress an exclamation of admiration
at her lover’s realistic acting. She waits
until the soldiers withdraw and then
approaches and calls to William to rise. He
remains motionless. In sudden alarm she
draws nearer, and is horrified to discover
that the execution was, after all, genuine.
She flings herself on the body in a passion
of sorrow and lies there, sobbing, until she is
aroused by shouting in the street. The
General’s body has been discovered ; the name
of Bridget Maloney, his slayer, is on the
lips of the crowd. Steps are heard in the
passage leading to the quadrangle, and. the
soldiers rush upon the scene just as Bridget
leaps to her death into the excavation being
made for the extension to the Working Men’s
College.
The last salvoes of applause had long
died away. The audience had filed out of
the theatre. I still sat enthralled with the
thought that I had been privileged to see an
all-Australian cast perform an all-Australian
play on an all-Australian theme to which
an Australian composer had written music;
the true language of the soul. That the
great work had been produced by such an
all-Australian firm as J. C. Williamson filled
me with the intensest pleasure. The lights
were beginning to go out, one by one. An
usherette touched me on the arm. I awoke
to find myself in the Theatre Royal survey-
ing for tbe umpteenth time the second act
of “La Tosca.” bv the late Signor Giacomo
Puccini (1858-1924).
n*
The highly-respectable “Gondoliers” con-
tinues to command the deferential attention
of large audiences at Her Majesty’s, Sydney
—a theatre, by the way, which first dazzled
Sydney with its now very passe Edwardian
magnificence when the piece was 14 years old.
Looking at the opera again for the umptieth
time in 40 years this Showman was struck
anew by the workmanlike neatness of the
job, which is its intrinsic merit. Neither the
librettist nor the composer regarded it as
anything more than a job. to be carried out
by methods long standardised in their work-
shop. Gilbert.knew that quite a lot of his
choruses would never show through the
blanket of the orchestra and the swathings
of bad enunciation, and that Sullivan would
have to set the snappiest of his verses for
the principals to so rapid a tempo that sense
would be smothered. But as a self-respecting
journeyman he acted on the assumption that
there was no knowing what might show, so he
made it all eminently presentable, indulging
at the same time an impish contempt for the
conventions of all stages which fortunately
chimed exactly with the London of his day
—cynical, knowing, well-to-do London, just
beginning to pride itself on a cosmopolitan
broad-mindedness. Sullivan, who, unlike Gil-
bert, had a wreath of golden laurels iu view,
left his ambitions in abeyance when lie
tackled the job of expressing Gilbert in terms
of melody. He too, knew his Loudon, and
knew that it would relish —though it was so
cosmopolitan and broadminded—a discreet
disclosure of his private view that Italian
opera was after all very ridiculous. It
would like catchy tunes —things a fellow
could whistle in his bath —and Sullivan, who
modelled most of his stuff on the formula
of the old English dances, saved it from
banality almost against his will, coerced by
instinctive good taste and severe musical
training. That this rather pathetic compro-
mise between what he liked and what he
knew his public would like has been showing-
remarkable powers of endurance while his
one grand opera, “Ivanhoe,” was doomed to
the fate of the dodo is one of the little ironies
that the tutelary deity of artists likes to
inflict on its worshippers.
Sullivan builded a lot better than he knew.
Monckton and half a dozen others appropri-
ated his recipe with success. They added to
the array of English musical burlesques that
levelled the score with the graceful opera
bouffe productions of the Continent, and then
died under the landslide of jazz beneath
which the world is still struggling helplessly.
As to the way G. and S. are being resurrected
at Her Majesty’s, two good marks have to
be chalked up. There has been-no attempt
to improve on . the original, and the scenery
and dressing; are done with the Firm’s usual
competence. Also, since pretty girls with
nice voices are as' plentiful in Australia as
tabby-cats, that end of the show is all right..
The orchestra might be better, but it might
be nine degrees worse without causing a
riot, and the gaiety of the gondolieri and
contadini is not more mechanical than is
inescapable.
* X *
Fellowship of Australian Writers gave two
nights of five Australian-made one-acters
“Proudly refuses to tell them.”
at Sydney St. James’s Hall as a testimonial
to Steele Rudd.
The bill was Vance Palmer’s “The Black
Horse,” Nora McAuliffe’s “The Rose,”
Basil Garstang’s “So-long Mick,” Carrie
Tennant’s “Reprieve,” and Louis Esson’s
“The Drovers.” “The BJaek H'orse” is com-
pact of domestic bickering, except as comedy,
always a painful thing to listen to from the
stage. A boy takes a long time to die behind
the footlights in order to drive home to the
audience that a bush father is a domineering,
brute, and that his wife is even more guilty
of the boy’s death through her endeavors to
train him not to be a cattleman. Through
this influence he is in a funk when liis
father insists on his riding the black horse,
which comes down and fatally injures him.
Played with just twice as much snap as
amateurs have ever yet been capable of it
might have effect. It was played by five
human snails, all talking unnaturally.
“The Rose” was the night’s brightest
spot. _ It is only lightweight, but has that
essential of dramatic success a touch of the
picturesque. A girl whose ideal had gone
to South America is within an hour of marry-
ing another chap when the first man returns,
with present for bride. He had not communi-
cated for years because he had been a failure;
“Snatches up the carving knife.”
then he struck oil. H'is present is a rose in a
small box. He explains that a distant Spanish
ancestor used to give his flames a similar
present on their wedding eve, the real extent
of their past intimacy being revealed in
whether the rose was red or white. Having
deposited this petalled goad, the Australian
hidalgo departs, and a suspicious bridegroom
suggests and eventually insists on the bride’s
opening the box. She does, flaringly. The
rose is of the safe color (ironically, red), but
the imputation lias been too much for the
young lady’s virtuous patience, and the
groom is shown the door. Whereupon the
other fellow, having waited for the goad to
work, returns. This piece had sufficient
acting by Adele Quinn and Frank Hidden.
“So-long Mick” took the audience once
more to the bush. It is plotless. A girl of
all work on a station is going to marry a
lumbering station-hand, when the wandering
shearer on whom she had set her eyes unex-
pectedly returns, and wins her with talk
about stars, dewdrops and. birds. The thing
had acting of rare simplicity by Lali le Gay
Brereton, but it was criminal to, put such a
poetic trifle on the stage at all. It should
have been slipped into a pocket and taken
to be read in the Gardens.
‘'Reprieve” is not a one-acter, unless this
kind of play can be allowed prologue and
epilogue. In the prologue a young man,
disheartened at the general indifference
to his efforts to produce an unspeci-
fied serum, is about to shoot himself
when an angel appears with a great waking
light and cajoles him into postponing the
event while she lets him see its effects. In
the main act, the young man’s nagging wife,
his landlord and a couple of scientists indulge
in conventionally hypocritical remarks about
the great man who has gone, what time they
float a company to exploit his serum, and
just before curtain-fall the dead man dashes
unaccountably on stage and announces that
he intends to go on living. In the epilogue
he is still at the serum, indifferent to ids
wife’s nagging. It had sufficient, if somewhat
unconvincing, acting by Adele Quinn, Edward
Cavill and Wilfred Blacket, and Marie
Boyers made a delightful angel. Though both
idea and execution were bad, this piece was
yet more like a play than all the others put
together. Its author runs the Community
Theatre, which may be an indication to bud-
ding playwrights that the. place to learn
theatre is in the heart of it.
“The Drovers” once more plunged the house
into gloom. It leaves till the others standing
in dramatic content, and is miles ahead of
Louis Esson’s much more vaunted play.
“Dead Timber.” It has a raw primitiveness
that cuts a deep impression. A jackeroo tires
a revolver at a dingo and stampedes the
cattle, and a drover is mortally injured and
brought on to the stage to do his dying. The
time is just before dawn ; the scene a camp-
fire. The conflict turns on the fact that
the drover cannot be taken on and the cattle
must be. So he is left, with a blackboy
chanting abo. mysticism over him. James
Hatton, Alfred Race and Frank Hidden gave
it the night’s best acting.
* * *
A packed house of old friends accepted
“The Duchess of Dantzic” with every symp
tom of keen enjoyment at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday night. Seldom has the Firm
provided a more lavish display of sartorial
inaccuracies or hung them, on a more com-
petent company. With Dorothy Brunton as
Madame S. G., Herbert Browne as the
Vicomte de Bethune, Frank Bradley as
Bonaparte, Sydney Burchall as Sergeant
Lefebvre, Maidie Hope as Josephine, Romola
Hansen as Renee de Saint Mezard and
Stigaut as Papillon, the performance was
bound to go with a swing.
¥ * *
The longest item on the programme at
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday was the
“Appassionata,” played by Mark Hambourg
with more individualism than objectivity.
The most delicate was the Chopin nocturne
in B major. The most purely artistic was
the Bach recitative. “Ah, Shall Not This
Great Day of Wrath,” sung by Peter Daw-
son. All enthusiastically received by the
largest audience that has flocked into the
civic hall since the first of the cheap orches-
tral concerts inaugurated by Fritz Hart.
Adelaide Repertory has staged a brilliant
trifle by a local author, Marie Simons.
“Shakspearean Afterthoughts” brings to-
gether on Ariel’s isle an assortment of
“second fiddles” —Nerissa, Celia, Charmian,
etc. —delighted at getting away from the
heroines who out-talked them on the stage.
The other main feature of a varied evening
was fine work by Ethelwyn Robin and Phyl-
lis Simpson in a tragi-comedy of the London
slums.
# * *
J.C.W. ought to be pleased with Brisbane
results. At His Majesty’s “Kissing Time"
had ouite good houses for a week, and for
“Maid of the Mountains.” bookings are very
heavy. Lilian Crisp, Miriam Lester and
Don Nicol are making the entertainment
worth inspecting.
* * h-
Vaudeville continues to hold the fort com-
fortably at Sydney Royal. Lily Moore tells
a new batch of funny stories, sings a new
child song and otherwise provides an almost
completely new turn that is even better than
her first one. The admirable Scot McKay.
Rene Rinno and Clem Dawe have better
laugh stuff than hitherto. Altogether a tip-
top vaudeville bill.
# * ¥
At the Opera House big business and loud
laughs hailed the return of Nat Phillips and
Syd Beck. This show, too. has new stuff in
it and new talent, possibly sufficient to dig
it in for another long run.


Fancy the Overflow!
?t£r !
N
r>
ft
/?
s'
* zb :
0
1
MT***
k
k. >'..>
y
And sure I love to taste it,
But it breaks my heart to was'e it,
As the careless barman spills it,
And the bubbles rise like snow.
For 1 somehow rather fancy,
The barman thinks I’m Clancy,
And the waste upon the counter
is Clancy’s Overflow.
Apologies to A. B. Paterson
foilt the glass ... and pour
loooheys Pilsener slowly ...
TOOHEYS
\M
crjfiG
NEW LIGHT L AMmEM
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE
YELLOW LABEL
HEYS
WPORi
lACEB


MANGROVITE
LEATHER
COATS
Best quality
Guaranteed
A well cut, carefully,
made coat of best quality
Calfskin, lined and fin-
ished io very best style.
A coat you can abso-
lutely rely on to give
wonderful service. Easily
cleaned. Wind proof—
water proof and wear
proof.
Mangrovite quality mean*
genuine satisfaction.
MEASUREMENTS
REQUIRED
'/0 1/87
Chest. Chest with coat buttoned. Centre
seam, back of coat to shoulder seam.
Bhoulder seam to elbow. Elbow to just
past wristbone. Length of coat under
collar seam to length required.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD
Tanners & Manuiacturer*
YORK STREET fWynyard Square), SYDNEY
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ilyan, Esa s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
blanches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking* business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency-—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TO MEET THE TIMES
Melbourne 4* Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 80% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious' suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER,' Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
THE WAY AV IT.
“Theest ought to see some o’ they big shops down town, Nicholas. Why, [?] a man
went, in one of they and did’n’ know what ’e wanted—well, e’ would[?] knaw
what 'e wanted when he went for t’ come out.”
“E.S.S.”: Mrs. Corncob was alone in
the house, and chancing to look up while
having her dinner she was horrified to dis-
cover a big snake stretched along between
rhe ridge-pole and the capping. She got the
gun—an old double-barrelled muzzle-loader,
and loaded it in the way she had seen her
husband do. She had never fired a shot
in her life, but this was a desperate case.
She aimed at: the roof, then shut her eyes,
and as she pulled the trigger her head invol-
untarily followed the screw of her mouth.
There followed a thunderous report, a fran-
tic scream and a heavy fall. She had held
the gun loosely, and the kick of the old
weapon had knocked her backwards. “My
Cod, I’m shot!” she gasped, and fainted.
When she recovered the snake had dis-
appeared, and there-wasn’t a shot-mark any-
vvhere. That puzzled? her. She was posi-
tive she couldn’t have missed the house, for
the door was shut, and she had stood with
her back to the window. It was only after
Mr. Corncob came home and found a charge
of shot in the gun that the mystery was
explained. She had put the powder in one
barrel and the shot in the other.
* *
“T.W.”: A Papuan plantation manager—
almost the sole l survivor—-was suffering a
visitation from the Department of Native
Affairs. The inspector was very old, very
exacting and very deaf. Returning from an
unsuccessful (.softie on the labor lines lie
pulled up at a-ramshackle edifice on stilts.
.“How many in here?” he inquired. “Forty,"
the manager promptly answered. Out. came
notebook, pencil and tape-measure. “Fowls.
not boys!” the manager bellowed hastily.
“Clerk”: The bar-tender’ in the North
Queensland pub gave me some hoarse advice
before I went ,to explore the dark mysteries
of my bedroom. “Watch out fer ther cock-
roaches,” he warned me. “Ther place is
alive, with ther cows.” “I’ll tell yer how
ter fix ’em,” put in a stout, red-faced cattle-
man helpfully. “.Test arsk Bung fer a good
fat frog. You can turn him loose-’ in the
room when you’re gittin’ undressed, and be
the time you’re in bed he’ll ’ave ate most
of the ’roaches. Then yer gives another
shout fer Bung, and he’ll slip a snake infer
the room.” “A snake?” “Yus, a snake ter
eat the flamin’ frog. Then all you ’ave ter
do is ter ’op outer bed and kill the snake,
and you’re set fer the night. ’Nother double
Scotch.”
* * * *
“Squareface”: If King Solomon had been
a bush publican, he would have been able to
add one to the riddles which he confessed
he could not fathom. The way of a ship on
the sea, a serpent on a rock and a man with
a maid are simple compared with some of
the tricks that the out-back boniface has
to encounter. I am moved to this conclu-
sion by the tearful tale of the keeper of
the Swagman’s Arms at First and Last, an
old friend met recently in Sydney, where he
had come to recuperate. A customer asked
for gin, and, opening a new bottle, my friend
planked it down. Curses from the drinker
led to investigation. The contents of the
bottle were pure -water. After the stricken
client had been revived from the, syncope
induced by the unaccustomed beverage, a
post-mortem was held. The publican then
remembered that a few days before a
stranger had called asking for a bottle of
gin. which he placed in a bag he was carry-
ing. Then he found that he had not enough
THESE
COMMUNIST
DOGS I HAVE KNOWN-TWO COMMUNISTS.
cash to pay for it, and returned the bottle
with apologies. This, of course, was otic
all readied up, even to the replacement of
the capsule, and that is how my friend came
to serve plain water as gin.
“Dr. Duck”: The patient was a puny boy
of seven, and when I inquired the little fol-
low’s name the mother said. “Irk.” As I
looked puzzled she explained it was short
for “Irkyools.” When a few days later my
diagnosis of tapeworm was amply confirmer).
I recalled the infant Hercules’s struggles
with the serpents, and reflected that his
parents had nanied him better than they
knew.
* * * *
“Avon”: In Maoriland, as in Australia,
every time new tax-revenue is required the
excise duty on beer is one of tlm first items
to -be increased. The, practical limit to that
sorts of exploitationtseems to have been over-
stepped by the Hast increase, for the result
has 'been r alt intensive - itufly of the art of
home-brewing, which'''by some oversight on
the part of a tax-hungry legislature has not
been made a criminal or even an illegal
enterprise, * Yo*u\can igo' to the corner grocery
store and*fori 10s.* purchase alb the^ materials,
complete with recipe and for.
making 60 bottles of ale'or stout. All you.
have to do then is'to provide; a'-pot'toj boil
up the concoction, odoz. bottles or "a |keg,
and something under 6d. for the coal and
firewood' merchant or the' gas co The pro-
duct, while it mightn’t’ win medals at, a
brewers’ exhibition, .seems to;suit, the needs
of the frugal-minded islanders, whose, beer
ideal is a matter >of • strength rather than
flavor. A strong feeling; is .growing in the
minds of licensed victuallers apd professional
brewers that Australia’s example should be
followed without delay; in other words, that
the art of brewing should be restricted to
those places where the product can be taxed
up to four times its proper price. Trouble
is that there are probably not enough pro-
hibitionists and liquor traders to make .such
a move politically expedient.
"Freeman Sandon”; Twenty yards from
high-water mark is a small sand and mudbank
dotted with oyster-covered rocks. At low
tide you may see the surface pitted with
holes half an inch to one inch in diameter.
They seem deserted, but remain absolutely
still for a minute or so, and life begins to
manifest itself. A red claw, nippers open,
slides noiselessly out of a burrow, hesitates,
slides a little further; a pair of black eyes
on long sticks follow, and presently one of
the most curious crabs in existence stands
before you. Ilis body is about an inch long;
he has a brown-bluish colored back like an
ordinary self-respecting crab and his left
claw is also normal in size, though red in
color. But the right claw: it is as large
as the rest of his body, and the color of a
glowing, red-hot iron bar, with wicked-look-
ing, jagged jaws. A regular broadsword it is.
and the little soldier carries it ready for
attack or defence, horizontally and in front
■ of his vital organs {like a boxer’s left glove,
as lie moves with •.short runs to either side.
While I observe the pioneer, more holes
erupt their contents. and before long the
•small bank , is/ teaming with hundreds of
.crabs. They vary fin size'from half an inch
to an inch and. a half, and the huge claw
shows nuances) of 1 color , from flame to
polishbd -'mame dotted with splashes of pink.
1 move : myc arm' sldivly ; nothing happens.
Quickly'; finf the twinkling bf an eye every
crab has- ensconced f hnhself. in -his burrow —
except. one>clbse' to'me, --apparently surprised
too far frpm* a hole, "so ho does his level
best to ?;im'it'ate, a stone. But in a minute
they arc:c out . again,, haying apparently
decided .the alarm 'was false, arid continue
their antics -around line, squatting in the
mud like a big. stone. ' The minutes slip by.
my legs go to.fsldep under me, but 1 am
determined to see.'what'the crabs are up to.
So far it-has .been-play only. Don’t they
ever do something? worth, while, like feeding
or fighting ? But " no—every crab is busily
lifting himself up . on ) the tips of his toes,
claw aloft, .and sinking, down again quickly.
It, reminds mo of j, the deep-breathing exer-
cises of Swedishdrill. Again and again the
motions..are \repgatedv varied by short runs
and occasional whisperings in the ear of a
fellow eitlfurist. At last a fight
starts. Two claws 'grapple for holds, a sharp
click sounds asdiippeVs close on shell, but
in a minute one has i-un away. Now he is
back' again, snuggling close to his erstwhile
enemy, possibly whispering an apology, and
again there i.s .pfia,ee> and goodwill on the
mudbank. As I rise,and massage my dead
legs I decide that this is the crabs’ playtime,
for I am sure that not the lightest, of
lunches has been taken. No doubt, when
the tide comes creeping in over the flat
their simple dinners come with it. and also
the enemies against which the formidable
flame-colored claws are used.
* * * *
. “T. Warra”: In the roaring days of the
Yodda (Papua) the warden, who was also
magistrate, had an assault ease to deal with.
The courtroom was attached to the local
store; the bench was a tier of becr-cases—
mostly full. The magistrate-entered. The
diggers stood up in respectful silence. The
magistrate rapped importantly on the bench.
‘‘Order!” lie called. “I will now open the
case.” “Good on yer, mister!” applauded the
defendant, beaming. “Boy! Bring us a
tommy-’awk ’n’ a coupler corkscrews.”
THE BUSH PHILOSOPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These here depressions,” Joe declared, and
shredded Derby in his hands,
“Take it from me, the cause of them is
something no-one understands.
They’re just what lawyers call an act of
God, which man may not prevent.
Queer that we never realised how good times
were—until they went,
f rom days when Noah built the Ark, or
poor old Job hung out at Uz,
They’ve come in cycles regular—the same
as Halley’s comet does..
“The why and wherefore of it all highbrows
can argue till they’re blind.
They mostly blame- the war,” said Joe, “that
and the debts it left behind.
Some say the money standard’s crook, and
locked-up gold has helped to wreck
f manco and trade and give the world a
wattlesnoozer in the neck.
Can’t say I understand it half, the learned
. footle and the fuzz.
Fact is, these ’ slumps have goiter come—
the same as Halley’s comet does.
“I mind my dad would tell us kids about the
hungry ’forties’ once,
A\ hen every sort of job was scarce, and
scarcest thing of all was bunce.
I he wheel has turned full circle since. We’re
in the ‘thirsty ’thirties’ now,
Or that,” said Joe, “is what some day we’ll
see them labelled anyhow.
Let Parliament and lecture-rooms with
wordy explanations buzz,
These snaps just come on schedule time—the
same as Halley’s comet does.”
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con»
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sotind judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard o i Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fsd
£7,500,000 ‘
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. “
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Break a wishbone with me,
Think •of something nice ;
Diamonds ? Ah no, dear !
Simpler things suffice.
Ha! I’ve won. You ask me
What I wish. Be sure.
Health. No coughs, no cold, no ’flu,
, With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.—Abvt.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
/
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C ?td.
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridie Street. Sydney.
f
“Lau Na Sibona Dibalmu”: “Oi Diba
Lasi’s” information regarding lvukukukus
and their connection' with the death of Herr
Baum (B. 17/6/’3l) doesn’t tally with what
I know. The people-on the Papuan water-
shed and west of Mt. ; Lawson (there are no
people inhabiting the foothills of that much-
maligned mount) are related to the people
of the Upper Watut-—those .people who it
is .alleged killed Herr, Baum." Their language
and cultural life are .the same. They are
not. a “Sturdy, thickset” lot, but little men
with all the attributes of the negrito, and
do not ’ “ornament their' capes with cus-cus
tails.” And “gaol, that wonderful civilising
agent,” has not as yet had a. chance to affect
them, because only two have ever been in
captivity, In the last 12 months a lot of
patrolling has been done by the Papuan Gov-
ernment in that region of the Tauri and
Tivori headwaters, and the real homes of
those bushmen that attacked Pryke and
many others were found. Formerly they
were thought to be nomads (no villages ever
being found), but these negritoes only came
down, from their mountain fastnesses when
attracted by signs of habitation. From
recent exploration it is known that the Tauri
River runs north until nearly reaching the
line of demarcation, then turns east and
NO HOPE THAT WAY.
WARDER: “Your wife asked me to tell you that she is leaving no stone unturned to get
you out.”
PRISONER: “ She’s only wastin’ her time. Th’ blokes that built this gaol made a job
of it.”
forms a deep, wide valley that runs for
nearly 50 miles in that direction, the river
having its source in high, mountainous coun-
try within a day’s march of the Watut head-
waters. All along this valley are the vil-
lages of the Kukukuku, or people of the
Kiapou, who have their connections of trade
with the people of the Upper Watut. The
Papuan word Kukukuku means bushman,
and does not signify the name of a tribe, as
some people think. The word “Cooka-Cooka”
possibly originated through the visit of a
Papuan patrol to the Watut watershed some
months ago. The Kiapou are the most dan-
gerous people in Papua to-day, and if white
men continue to make the mistake of think-
ing they are getting friendlier the error will
prove as costly a one as poor Baum’s.
; j: ❖
“C. Allan Park”: Though everyone is
talking of the necessity for increasing the
national output in order to produce more
material than this country is able
to sell to its equally hard-up neigh-
bors, very little seems to be done in
a concrete way to make two s.-p.
bookmakers, for instance, flourish
where, but one stood before. As
one who has earned the gratitude
of the nation by an attempt to get
rich quick by poultry-farming, and
as -a person in the past familiar
with tropic seas, I venture to put
forward a suggestion. The turtle,
as ; is generally known, lays some
500 eggs at a sitting. The hen,
even in top gear, can produce only
one, with a total output of about
300 eggs per annum at the best.
The obvious solution is to cross
the hen with the turtle. You will
say, of course, that the egg market
will be soon congested. Very well.
Feed the surplus eggs to the pigs,
whose bacon will obviously acquire
an egg flavor. Then by simply fry-
ing a slice of pig the morning egg-
and-bacon addict will be able to
enjoy his breakfast with an econ-
omy of labor in preparing the food
for consumption. Thei’e are many
other advantages to be gained from
the scheme, but I must be content
with calling the attention of Mr.
Mark Gosling to those enumerated.
“Light Horse”: The par. about the
brumby horse’s capacity for digging in the
dry river beds for water (B. 12/8/’3l) re-
minds me that many folk well used to horses
have no idea what a burrower Neddy can
be when he sets his mind to it. During the
big war writer had as a mouixt a little thor-
oughbred of very temperamental type. He
was the cui'se of the men in charge of the
horselines when we were in Westenx Egypt
during the evacuation, for every morning he
would be found with nothing but his hind-
quarters showing from a burrow he had
made with his front feet during the night,
and nothing could stop him. He took a
pull in Sinai, however. A few experiments
in the loose sand at Romani convinced him
that it was a mug’s game, and tliei-eafter he
confined the expression of his ego to bucking
his rider off at utterly unexpected moments.
“Desmond”: The oldest Digger who served
in the Great War may be expected to arrive
about every five years. “Jesmond” (B.
5/8/’ol) submits the claim to recognition of
Harry Brown, wounded in the last days of
the war when he was 69. It is easier to place
the youngest Australian decorated. Jackson,
an overgrown boy of 15, attending Neutral
Bay (Sydney) Public School, enlisted in
CUTTING HIS WAY TO WEALTH.
DAD: “’Struth, Choom, wot d’ yer think yer doin’ to th’ rabbit?’
NEW HAND: “I’ve, been told there’s good money in shearing, sir, so I thought I’d get
my hand in without spoiling any of your sheep.”
1916 under an assumed name and got away
to Egypt, where he was located by his father.
The. old; man. went in pursuit of his offspring
with .the.,intention of bringing him home, but
the boy persuaded his dad to join up, and they
saw service - together. Young Jackson won
the D.C.M. The. youngest Australian to
volunteer for the big brawl was a Perth
boy, who on his .return was arrested on , a
charge of being a" truant from school.
“Old Q.”: That yarn about
Johnnie Burgess driving a mail
coach across a flooded river four
miles wide (B. 12/8/’3l) will leave
any .Queenslander cold. Out of a
host of greater feats I' recall that
of Jim Currant, who was carrying
for a; grandfather of mine on Jura
station, oh the. watershed of the
Condamine and Burnett rivers, in
the. long ago. During .the terrible
' floods of the middle ’seventies,
Bundaberg,' then a small settlement,
was cut; off .and ran short of food
supplies. Wires came through via
Brisbane, and-Grandad considered
ways and meaiis of -getting tucker
to some of our relatives in the little
town sitxxated.a few miles from the
east coast on the Burnett River.
The country was practically im-
passable by land, but Jim Currant
solved the"'problem. With his
famous bullock team he managed to
make the headwaters of the Bur-
nett, and then, standing on top
of a - huge " load • of flour and other
supplies, swam the team down the
200 miles of rushing river to Bun-
daberg. Old - inhabitants of the
sugar town have told me that-the
l’eception giveix to Jim has never
been excelled. They had ali’eady commenced
to make rum there, by the way.
’ •* * * *
“Avon”: Like the Australian coekie, whose
“stone' the crows” has become ; part of the
language,- the M.L. fai'mer curses the im-
ported birds — : all save' the very old stagers.
The old chaps, who: helped pioneering dads
in the ’sixties, remember the terrible lesson
then impressed upon them concerning the
place of birds in agi-iculture. The bush
lands that were cleared and cultivated were
magnificently fertile, and prospects were
bright for the first crops; but, alas! there
came a plague of caterpillai’s that ate the
grain and the turnips and the spuds, and
increased and multiplied to such an extent
that they blocked railway lines and filled
to overflowing large trenches cut to trap
them. It was then that an SOS went to
England for sparrows, finches and starlings
—particularly sparrows. The birdies reck-
oned they had been transported to Heaven,
tucker was so plentiful, and they claim to
this day their tithe of farm stuff for their
great feats in saving the country in that
far-distant day. The indigenous birds, never
having had to scratch very hard for a living,
weren’t much use, to the first settlers, and
all that they have learned in the intervening
70 or SO years is how to annoy sheep, a job
at which they have developed great /ingenuity.
* * .. '* *
• “Larrapinta” : The abos. of the Tatiain
tribe, which used- to roam the. south-east of
S.;A., had) a booze, recipe. . When a shower of
rain followed a spell of line weather in winter
they-took, bark coolahxons and-made a round
of that variety of -banksia * known as the
“bull honeysuckle.” From , the big flower
cobs the rain-diluted honey was'shaken into
the bark’dishes, and thesei were:stood until
fermentation had < ceased. Then the bucks
would enjoy a mild.sort of alcoholiday. 1
recently had an example of how potent liquor
brewed from honey can be. I put some low-
grade honey into a cask at one of my out-
apiaries, diluted it with .water, and left it
to turn into vinegar. A week later I returned,
and when I walked up to the shed-to see
how the vinegar was getting on I was
greeted by the sound of singing. Inside were
: half ta. dozen swaggies, gloriously tight, and
my cask was nearly empty.. They had
chanced along when the first fermentation
was nearly done, and the liquor had become
a cross between pinky and new beer. The
smell had led them to investigate the con-
tents of the cask, and they were full of
praise for the bliss which a skinful of it
induced.
* * *
“J.G.S.”: In support of “MullarulaV’
theory l’egarding. the, water seasoning of some
Australian Timbers, let me-cite tlie case of
the houses built of pine l in Maryborough
(Q.) over 50 years ago. This,timber, there
being lio railway then, was rafted from
Tincan and the head-of the.river, and is still
sound. Air- or kiln-seasoned pine of the.
same variety, if used as weatherboards, rots
1 in, a year or two. As far as xhy-experience
goes, almost all the eucalypts: and acacias
and the Flindersia • (Q. maple) are' vastly
more durable if dumped in water-and mud for
a few months.
*** ’ ' *
“Hamer”: It seems to be generally foi-
gotten that “wattle-barkers” -were the
pioneers of Australia’s pioneers. The north
coasts of Van Diemen’s Land were well
worked by the “barkers” before there. was
any settlement on the ai-cas they denuded.
Then they turned their eyes on the mainland,
A party of bark-gathei'crs crossed from Laun-
ceston to Westernport in November, 1834.
before John Batman visited Port Phillip:
and a full cargo was shipped to England m
1835. All over the country the barkers were
busy in advance of settlement, and the bark
continued to be one of the great national
resources until Australia woke to the fact
that S. Africa had stolen its wattle and a
good part of its trade.
THE STATION MAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twice forty miles I had to ride
O’er stony hill and dale,
With jogging packhorse by my side,
To get the station mail.
No camp or hut. stood by the way,
The track was rough and hard:
But once we heal’d a bullock-dray,
And passed a broken yard.
We boiled the quartpot to beguile
A half-hour where we found
A bound’ry man had stopped a while
Upon his lonely round.
By tank and dam, where no one might
Our faring see or hear,
We jogged from early morn till night.,
With ever creaking gear.
We met the coach, and stai’tcd back
’Neath morning’s greying dome.
With packer staunch and sturdy hack
To bear the burden home.
And in the bag. well sealed and all
Secure fi-om travel ills.
Was nothing but a pamphlet small
That told of someone’s pills.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


“EOT HEN”
sdf
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
M
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
k GARAGE
inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
"» Central 528
Mr*. PARKER
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia H'ouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney ;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directortt:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.-—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
sd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Street*.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
SMOKE-OH!
SONG OF YOUTH.
“Theatrical managers and film-producers retain
the notion that drunkenness is mirth-provoking.
Youth to-day merely regards it as disgusting.”
— Thos. S. McKay, in “8. M. Herald .”
hubabub water!
hubabub milk!
there urns a silence like a wall of iron,
and the youth-of-the-day wore a scowl
as funereal as the Cimmerian weepers
dangling from Ms virtuous hat.
for someone (hubabub lemonade!) had
cracked a drunk, joke.
sanctimonious, wordy, not averse to publi-
city,
swivel-eyed (hubabub raspberry sundaes!)
the youth-of-the-day intoned: “oh, no. we
never laugh at drink; its name is never
heard.
let degraded fathers and mothers snigger ui
the hik-kuk-kuppings
of the chaplings, the lorels and hordys, tin•
lyns and the whorls.
(hubabub frutol and flatulence!)
the youth-of-the-day prefers stiggins—
i don’t think.”
(with acknowledgments to Sydney’s only
modernistic poet, frauds jackson. author of
“walpurgis.”)
¥ ¥
►Say what you like of Lang, he has done
our very best.
¥ ¥
“Audacity seems the chief quality required by a
movie actress.” — Sydney feminist.
Yes. Most girls would be Garbos if they
only had the face.
¥ ¥
“Debates by the American team recently in Sydney
were carried out on the Oregon plan, with rights to
cross-questioning. ”
Personally, we prefer the O’Regan plan
as adopted in the N.S.W. Assembly, with
rights to the jaw and an occasional left:
swing.
¥ ¥
THE M.L.A. INTRODUCES PARLIA-
MENTARY TECHNIQUE TO HIS
TRIAL.
Prosecutor (cross-examining) : “Where
were you when the robbery was committed?”
Accused: “I want notice of that question.
Yeronner.”
Prosecutor: “I suggest that you were pre-
sent, and shared in the proceeds.”
Accused: “The learned counsel is pro-
bably confusing this case with the one in
which he and his father conspired to rob
a defenceless widow of her savings, aud only
escaped their dues, viz., a prison cell, by
gross bribery and corruption.”
Accused's Solicitor: “Mongrels!”
- His Honor: “01-der ! Order!”
Prosecutor: “Is it or it is not a fact that
you served a term for fraud before coming
to this country?”
Accused: “The answer is contained, Yer-
onner, and, gentlemen of this great and glori-
ous jury, in my long and honorable record
THE PARTY.
SMITH: “Yes, it really was a wonderful
party. Last thing I remember clearly
was old Darling Point getting into
Jones’s grandfather clock and trying to
telephone to his wife!”
of public service on behalf of the mighty
democracy under which we have the plea-
sure, the privilege and the profit to live
( Accused’s Counsel: “Hear! Hear!”); a
form of government which I make bold to
.say—aud I stand open to correction if I
cau be shown to be wrong—the purest ot
political motives, the most sacred of domestic
ties, the most elevated of ethical sentiments
are allowed the fullest possible play com-
patible with national honor, and the eternal
principles of British justice.” I Loud
cheers.)
The jury, which was composed of typical
electors, shortly afterwards stopped the case
and returned a verdict in favor of accused
without leaving the box.
¥ ¥
“Despite steel-lined walls, thieves robbed a boot-
shop at Northcote.”— “Argus.”
At dead of night when no-one stirred,
They stole abroad to steal;
And so by steel they weren’t deterred:
They stole to steel to steal!
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FITTING.
“Dad, there’s a man in the shop says you promised him some
self-fitting instructions if his suit was too tight.”
“Vell, my poy, tell him to eat less mit his meals!”
“‘I looked for Mr. Hoss, expecting to find an
Englishman ; but he proved to be an Afghan.’ ”
—“Sun.”
A Hoss of another color, so to speak.
•¥*
“The fact that a man is able to walk a chalk
line is no proof of sobriety.”’— Police-court evidence.
“It matters not how straight the gait,’
as the poet Henley sang.
¥ ¥
“Visitors to Sydney often inquire at the Tourist
Bureau where to go to see Mr. Lang.”— “Herald.”
What an awful thing if one of them
developed the souvenir complex and pinched
him!
¥ ¥
From Jos. Ilenpeck’s “Musings on Mar-
riage” :
“ 'Tis hard to part from those we love,”
So sang an old-time English bard;
I find, however, that to part
From one you've ceased to’s just as hard.
BLIGH-ST. AND MOVIE THEATRES,
LTD., SWAP PUBLICITY EXPERTS.
To the Editor, — \
Sir, —There is, all too clearly, a deliberate
campaign in certain quarters, which, in the
interests of harmony, shall for the present
(I say for the present) , be nameless, against
our splendid star Chas. (Buddy) Rogers.
Critics write disparagingly of his matchless
art; audiences—bribed so to do by his oppo-
nents, no doubt —w 7 alk out on him. This
must and will be stopped. Let all true
Rogersites, who have the interests of the
cause at heart, rally to the standard as one
man and woman, and confound the disloyal-
ists and traitors in our midst.—Yours, for
Peace and Unity, Mother of Eight.
From special article by “Patriot” :—-
“... .and the question therefore arises (and
it is a burning one that all honest citizens
must ask themselves), what do these carpers
who are decrying Mr. Rogers really want?
Are they honest? Are they sincere? Or
are they playing cunningly for their own
hands? They saw his work in “Bleeding
Souls.” Was there anyone in the cast, is
there anyone anywhere, who could play that
arduous part better, or as well? Echo
answers resonantly. Certainly not. Let us
then, I implore, give over undignified bicker-
ing and sneering, by which the wow 7 sers are
greatly encouraged, and settle down as a
solid, united party bent on but one glorious
aim—that of putting our idol definitely to
the front, and keeping him there, regardless
of the machinations of self-seeking rivals.”
[God Save the King.]
SELLING ’EM TO THE FANS.
Tom Bavin, New South's Honesty Bay.
Here’s a political star, buddies, who has
definitely scaled the dizzy heights that only
supreme genius can hope to attain. Born
of grand old party stock on both sides, lie
has been in the great game since as an
Infant Phenomenon of 7 he won three Argu-
ing Club cups running in his home town. He
developed a big fan following in “Once An
Independent,” and clinched his position
shortly afterwards in “Always a National-
ist.” Now starring in “Tom ’n’ Jack. A
Back-talk Tragi-comedy.”
Ilcygic Weaver
Is conceded to be the greatest portrayer
of he-man roles the Queen Burg of Rothburv
has produced. Handsome as a sungod, with
a voice like a bassoon heard through an
amplifier, and the suave manner of a suc-
eessful realtor, Reg
delivers a verbal
punch from either
side of the mouth
like the kick of a
mule. Millions
gripped their seats
when he staged those
two-fisted attacks of
his on his own Gov-
ernment before they
rewarded him with a
portfolio. Hence his
sobriquet, “Th' 7
Loyalist.”
TIE-UPS.
Dodger for house-to-
house distribution :—
“HORROR stalked
’neath peaceful skies,
and Party Organ
isers BLANCHED
CORPSE - WHITE
as they checked up
their passbooks. No
folks, there hadn’t
been n o robbery.
They was PEEVED
because so-called
members of the
Party hadn’t come
across with their
annual subs. BOY
(also GIRLIE), this
means YOU. Where’s
that bob?”
There’s a smart vote-
promoter in this one:
Get a still of
Danny Levy. Paste
on blow-out and cover with gauze. Instal
in Darlinghurst shop-window in front of
flasher, and when same works Danny will
be seen to be smiling the same as he did
when they threw a water-bottle at him in
the Assembly. It’s a wow.
¥ ¥
Manufacturers of Victorian footwear are
putting the boot into N.S.W.
¥ ¥
“Respondent said be was stunned when his wife
threw the fish at him.”
She must have had a very hard roe to
throw.
¥ ¥
“Wanted 100 yards broken brick.”— “Aryus” advt.
So the Melbourne football finals are upon
us once more!
¥ ¥
SPRING.
Spring had come again. Housewives
smiled benignly on benevolent bottle-olis as
they sold the winter’s supply of rum bottles.
Kindly brewers sang as they worked out the
formulae for new beverages. In Darling-
hurst a poet lightly rattled
off his “Spring Ode to an
IOU.”
Yes, spring had come
again. But it touched no
responsive chord in the
heart of Premier Lang. Last
spring had been a time of
promise, all promise, but
something more substantial
was wanted now.
Disgustedly he watched
the birds outside the Trea-
sury preening their new spring plumage.
He hadn’t a feather to fly with himself.
Desperately he tried to think of someone who
might spring a million quid.
¥
“Mr. Lyons protested that the Opposition merely
wanted to see the progress of the plan from week
to week.”
The trouble with these political plans is
their habit of progressing from weak to
weaker.
“Not for a generation have so many titled
Londoners failed in business.”
True. We live in days of “good nights'’
to a good few knights who aren’t good
knights.
OUR SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
My tenant has not paid any rent for six
months. How can I remove him? —55 B.c.
A likely scheme is to persuade a team of
Young Nat. Speakers to orate now and then
outside the front gate.
My lawnmower is cutting badly. What can
I do?— 0001.
Borrow 7 your neighbor’s.
A man to ivhom I owe money has threat-
ened to take out a garnishee order against
me. Hole can I prevent him doing this? —
9999.
Remove all money from your bank, and
resign your job.
What is the best position in which to grow
Iceland poppies?— l234.
As far aw T ay from your neighbor’s fowl
yard as possible.
I have tried to get rid, of my cat, but
every time / take him away he returns honu
after a few days' absence. What can be done?
—1066.
Take him as far away as possible and
administer a sleeping draught. Then dash
home and remove all your furniture to
another house. If he calls affect not to
know him.
W. E. F.
¥ ¥
“The wife of Andrew Onions, meat magnate, of
Chicago, has obtained a divorce.”— Cable.
And she’s not the first who has gone off
her Onions !
¥ ¥
“A lot of work has still to be done in collect-
ing last year’s income tax.”
And ft lot of workers have still to be
dunned.
1 ¥ ¥
IN DETAIL.
“Primo Camera retorted: ‘I shall immediately
prosecute the Federation for slander, claiming £5550
damages.’ ” — “Sun.”
Other celebrities have been more specific.
Tottie Litetoes said: “Yes; it is true that I
am suing Mr. Numseull for £10,005 15s. The
£lO,OOO is put in as I always claim that
amount in my breach actions. The five
guineas is what I spent on champagne when
I heard I hadn’t got to marry him, and the
ten bob is for my solicitor.”
“What I intend to claim from the ‘Weekly
Scandalmonger,’ ” said Ananias Roy Stirr.
“is £20,000 2s. Old. The £20,000 sounds a
nice round figure; the two bob represents
just about the damage that can be done by
a remark the ‘Scandalmonger’, chooses to
make; and, seeing my own pretty well-known
reputation, the farthing is all I really expect
to get.”
“With £24,000,000 os. 2d. to play with,”
said Mr. Lang, “it is absurd to talk about
IN HIS SALAD DAYS.
“You worm—you dirty, miserable, suffocating little
worm! No wonder I met you at a garden fete!”
N.S.W. being bankrupt. The 20 million is
the amount I said 1 could get from America
for the asking. The four million is the
amount the Loan Council seems unwilling
to let me have. The tuppence is what 1
actually hold in hard cash, in the Treasury.”
¥ ¥
PIP PA’S SONG,
(Revised Version.)
The year's at the turn.
The day's at the mourn;
Depression’s drab shade is
Right over us hurled.
Tlue rent's gone astern;
The cow's in the corn;
The Devil’s in Hades —
All's ivrong with the world.


BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 507-
merchants AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 732 of 1931.
Between VERA LILLIAN O’NEILL Petitioner
And VINCENT DENIS O’NEILL Respondent.
To VINCENT DENIS O’NEILL late of Young in
the State of New South Wales Horsetrainer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VERA LILLIAN
O’NEILL has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixth day
of November next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated the 7th day of August, 1931.
For tbc Registrar [L.s.],
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRED A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Bull’s Chambers,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Public Notices.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOL
REALISATION ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
FINAL CLOSING OF BOOKS.
jSJOTICE is hereby given, that in connection with
the FINAL Distribution of Funds the TRANSFER
BOOKS and Share Registers of the abovenarned
association WILL CLOSE DEFINITELY at 5 pan.
on MONDAY, the THIRTY-FIRST day of AUGUST,!
1931.
N.B. —The special attention of shareholders (con-
tributories) is directed to the fact that
THE BOOKS WILL NOT BE REOPENED AND
THAT NO TRANSFERS WILL BE REGIS-
TERED AFTER THE ABOVEMENTION ED'
DATE. .
J. M. HIGGINS (
CHAS. R. MURPHY j
640-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne Cl.
Liquidators.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOL
REALISATION ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
GENERAL MEETING.
JSJOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that in pursuance of;
the Companies Act 1928 of the State of Vic-
toria a GENERAL MEETING OF THE CONTRI-
BUTORIES of the abovenarned ASSOCIATION will
be held at the Registered Office, 540-542 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, on FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,
1931, at 3 p.m.
BUSINESS.
(a) To receive the Liquidators’ Balance Sheet and;
Realisation Account for the twelve months'
ended June 10, 1931; and
(b) To receive a progress Statement by the
Liquidators particularising the main items
in the winding-up 1 proceedings of the
Association; and
(c) To report generally regarding the FINAL
DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS; and
(d) To authorise the Liquidators to dispose of the
balance (if any) remaining out of the
moneys to be set aside by the Liquidators
to meet the costs, charges and expenses in
connection with the final winding-up after
all such costs, charges and expenses have
been paid.
J. M. HIGGINS I r iouidators
CHAS. R. MURPHY J Liquidators.
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
August 18, 1931.
Legal Notice.
MARY ANN SARAH JONES, Deceased.
PURSUANT to Orders of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division dated 15th December 1930
and Bth June 1931 in an Action re Mary Ann Sarah
Jones deceased- —Stevens v. Jones 1930 J. No. 2818
an inquiry has been directed for the purpose of
ascertaining whether William Nicholds Jones one of
the three stepsons of the Testatrix named in her
will survived her and if so who if he is since dead
is his personal representative.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the said
William Nicholds Jones or those claiming through
him are on or before the 31st December 1931 to
send by post prepaid to Mr. Thomas Waghorne
Stevens' of 32 Great St. Helens London England a
partner in Messrs. Savery Stevens and Nutt Solici-
tors their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or Judge
on application otherwise orders. Claimants are to
attend personally or by their Solicitor before Master
Ridsdale at the Chambers of the Judge Room No. 231
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London England on
Friday the 15th day of January 1932 at 12 o’clock
noon being the time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in England or Wales to
whom notices to the Claimant can be sent.
Dated this 16th day of July, 1931.
ARTHUR F. RIDSDALE,
Master.
SAVERY 7 , STEVENS & NUTT,
32 Great St. Helens, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Note:—-The Testatrix died 13th January, 1930.
William Nicholds Jones’ father was John Jones.
William Nicholds Jones was born at Springfield,
Illinois, and was last seen in London, England,
about 1890 or 1891 by his brothers.
New
Australian Portable
Stamper Batteries
“Golden Gusher”
Ore Crushers
The Power Crusher, illustrated, has an output
of 1-1 £ tons per day of eight hours.
It has a 1001 b. Hammer which gives 250
blows per minute.
Water is circulated through the Cast-Iron
Mortar Box by means of the Pump shown.
A Steel Hopper is supplied capable of holding
a barrow-load of 2in. to ore, which is
automatically fed into the opening.
When crushed, the ore is washed through a
screen into the mercury trough, from which it
flows over tables.
We have also a portable Hand-operated
Crusher with an output of 2cwt. per day.
Full particulars ana prices will be sent on request.
'
2:.;c
JL ■ ■-.' !
m
m
m
mm*
■ .. Vf " nV’ V.- ■..
s
-
11
S',.--
imam
M
*■;
Pumps, Tools, Rope, Piping and Mining Equipment also stocked
.
Proprietary Limited
554 Collins St., Melbourne.
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
51 Bathurst St., Sydney
532 Murray St., Perth
LISTEN-IN TO MICK SIMMONS’ “SNAPSHOTS OF
SPORT” SESSION, STATION 2UW, EVERY
THURSDAY, 7.15 TO 7.30 P.M.
Mick Simmons
RIFLE
AND
1
SPECIALISTS
An Unrivalled Range!
SPORTING
RIFLES
FOR
Australian
Sportsmen!
No. I—T HE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, fitted
with plain V back-sight; for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel, 18in.
long, bored and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight about 31b 22/0
Postage, 1/9 ; Other States, 3/~
No. 2—T H E MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal,
take-down, with safety bolt. For short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; 21 in. round
barrel; weight about 3|lb 30/-
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3j-
No. 10-S T E V E N S’
“FAVORITE” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech-
block, takedown action; open front- and
sporting rear-sights; weight ..52/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 11 —STEVEN S’ BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal., magazine holds 14
short, 12 long, or 10 long-rifle cartridges
mixed or separate; 22in. round barrel,
slide action, ivory bead front- and ladder
rear-sights; weight 65/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 15 —WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
1906 MODEL, 22-cal., 16-shot,
20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear-sights, slide action;
magazine handles 15 short, 12 long or
1 1 long-rifle cartridges; weight about
5 fib *5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 28— REMINGTON
HAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 12A, 22-cal., solid
breech, side ejector, straight grip, 22-in.
round barrel; handles 15 short, 12 long
or 1 1 long-rifle cartridges; adjustable
rear and open front-sights; weight
4ilb *5/15 -
Carriage Paid.
No. 31 —B ROW N I N G
AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
MODEL 24, 22 short or long
rifle; each rifle takes one size cartridge
only; walnut stock, pistol-grip, 1 9£in.
barrel; length 36in.; bead front- and screw
rear-sight; safety bolt; barrel may be
dismounted by unscrewing f turn; weight
4*lb. 70/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 32-BROWNING
“TROMBONE** H*LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; screw rear-
and open front-sights; length overall
39in.; weight 77/6
Carriage Paid.
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Mick Simmons’ Firearms and Ammunitions
Expert, is at the service of Sportsmen on
any matter pertaining to Shooting.
New Shooting Price List post free on
request.
All Letters to Box ISB , P. 0.. Ilayviarket.
Sydney.
MickSimmonsEtd.
7,2 0 II AYMAR K E T. SYDN E Y.
“Australia's Largest. Distributors of
i Firearms!’
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Mother’s Millions,” already commended
by The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic, arrived
at Sydney Plaza on Saturday. The inspira-
tion is the late Hetty Green, an indomitable
old miser who tackled some of the best brains
and worst characters of America’s financial
empire and won in her turn. May Robson,
a 15-year-old Sydneyite, provides a senti-
mentalised version of this celebrity. The
advt.-writers, infelicitous as usual, call her
. "the womau-Arliss of the screen.” Arliss is
a great old mummer, but he is self-conscious
about his art, and that makes him actorish
at times. Most of his contemporaries, from
Irving downwards, were the same. Miss
Robson, miraculously, has no stage tricks ;
she is naturalism, personified, and the grati-
fying result is that you can watch her for
minutes at a time and forget that the woman
she portrays—-a Holly wooden blend of Crom-
wellian implacability and Corellian sloppiness
—never could have existed. The play has
been transferred from stage to screen almost
intact, yet it is more effective than recent
adaptations in which directors have worked
overtime. A great show, which no one inter-
ested in the onward march of the talkies
should miss.
* * *
“The Spy” (Fox), at Sydney Regent, is a
concession to the popular dream of Russia
as a land where the political game, dulled
in most civilised communities to slanging-
matches between craven nonenties, is color-
ful with gore and gallantry. It has the
crazy interest of all really bad bellowdramas.
A grand duke arrives in Paris and informs
the emigres that nothing can be done till
“Citizen X” is disposed of. Neil Hamilton,
whose wife, Kay Johnson, and' child, Freddie
Frederick, are in Moscow, undertakes the
job. Owing to the carelessness of the
emigres, their enemies are able to instal a
dictaphone, and particulars of the Hamilton
expedition are wirelessed to Russia. The
Cheka decides to let Hamilton in and keep
an eye on him. The eye peers through
chinks, round corners, through jalousies, even
out of a heap of rubbish in a railway truck,
but he goes his loony way undeterred. He
expresses fears that his family have been
slain. However, they are alive; they have
to be in order to get in his way and mess up
things generally, and prevent the delicate job
in hand being brought to a successful con-
clusion. Hamilton and Miss Johnson insist,
on pleading guilty to a murder with which
they had nothing to do, and as to the motives
of which they are, ignorant. They aren’t
convicted, because they say they shot the
victim, whereas he was knifed. It appears
next that their innocent child was the un-
witting instigator of the deed. The family
are now thoroughly unpopular, and matters
are further complicated by Hamilton’s admis-
sion that he has come to kill “Citizen X.”
At this stage the Citizen, who orders execu-
tions as lightly as Mr. Lang issues Plans,
suddenly weakens for no stated reason, and
spares the sorely-tried three, who do a fade-
out in one another’s arms. A splendid cast
has been picked to interpret this bilge. Henry
Kolker, as the Citizen, couldn’t be bettered;
neither could John Holliday as a suave,
sinister traitor to the aristas; and Freddie
Frederick is a very real child. There are
some interesting glimpses of the “wild child-
rep” of Russia, and the horrible conditions
under which they live.
“Blind Wives” (formerly “Free Love”)
is the other one at the Regent. The big
moment comes when Conrad Nagel hits his
lovely,, frivolous spouse, Genevieve Tobin, on
the jaw, and thereby reforms her. Also in
the show are Zasu Pitts, with most of the
best lines, Slim Summerville, and Monroe
Ow r sley, who is very good indeed as a comic
villain. The play is amusing in spots, and
plenty of money has been spent on it. It
probably conveys a message of sorts to
modern America, but its social satire is
meaningless here, and the tenuous story is
told in jerky episodes. Still, like its non-
sensical predecessor, it holds the attention.
The bill at Sydney State affords an object-
lesson in the difference between British and
American theories of movie-direction. “To
Oblige a Lady” is a farcical comedy star-
ring Maisie Gay. Elstree talkies of this class
cling to the old Toole formula, which
assumed that the public couldn’t see or hear
too much of the star. They were lavish in
the comicalities of illiteracy, and niggardly
as regards scenic changes. In this play
Miss Gay is a boozy old cook. The servants
of a young couple who are giving an impor-
tant dinner-party walk out on them, and she
comes to the rescue. There is no reason why
she should wait at table, in addition to
being funny in the kitchen, except that the
producer wants her to get laughs all the
time. It is improbable that a degraded old
slum-dweller, such as she portrays, would
sing artistically, but Miss Gay was a bril-
liant vocalist in musical comedy, so she
bursts into song as Mrs. Harris. One way
and another she displays all her gifts, which
are considerable, though derivative —she is
a composite of Marie Dressier, George Robey,
and a pantomime dame —and she doesn’t stop
talking for more than a second or two at a
time from the moment of her first appear-
ance. The support is mediocre.
Whereas this farce moves slowly, “Resur-
rection,” which follows, is brisk almost to
the end. Beautiful scenes succeed one
another quickly, and the dresses, manners,
furniture and so on of the period are repro-
duced with scrupulous care. Lupe Velez,
awful in previous productions, provides a
study of Katusha which has touches that
approach genius. She is the star, but she is
out of the picture almost as much as she is
in it, and her lines have been cut to the bone.
It is the same all through; the director tells
you what is happening, wherever possible,
by elaborate tableaux —orgiastic scenes at a
cafe chantant. scenes on a troop train,
scenes in gaols, and the like. This is all to
the good, since the dialogue is feeble, as in
nearly all American movies. The minor parts
are played by stars —another Hollywood
characteristic.


WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER iHIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
Qg PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. 5=
Qo2
c Hf
YO
°Ok
Save, earn interest
IP AY ©Y
cheou:
Start saving now with the
P.P.B.—it pays you interest
on current accounts.
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE FkIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth ahd at London.
%
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MIGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CREAM TAINT AND TOP-DRESSING.
“J.W.W.”: So much has been heard in
Victoria on the above subject that prompt
attention to it by dairymen is called for.
Whatever depresses the market price of our
butter abroad is serious. Local demand also
ebbs and butter substitutes get their chance.
At the last annual conference of butter-
factory managers held in Melbourne, Mr.
Adamson (Moe factory) said he had found a
difference between the morning’s cream and
the afternoon’s cream. The cream in the
evenings went bad, but the morning’s cream
seemed all right. He had a theory that it
was largely duo to top-dressing, though he
admitted tliere was a lot that was not right
on the farms.
This, from such a quarter, is arresting,
especially to northern irrigators who have
to battle with the lucerne taint.
It seems evident to me that the great in-
crease in subterranean clover in parts of
Gippsland, coupled with heavy top-dressing
and a bountiful season, has caused such rank
growth that clover taint is present. By
adopting the same means as we do to deal
with lucerne taint, this can be overcome; but
the measures taken must be thorough and not
intermittent. This applies to all legumen
taints. I offer these suggestions :—•
(1) Don’t milk cows brought straight off
clover or lucerne paddocks, but leave them
for an hour or more on dry grass or dry hay
scattered where no clover exists.
(2) As soon as drawn from the cow, cool
the milk down to the temperature of the
coldest salt-and-water solution (brine)
obtainable on the farm if the milk is for a
milk round. A cooler, reducing it to 40deg.
Fall., is used in the city areas. If for the
factory, get it separated at once after milk-
ing and cool the cream similarly, the colder
the better.
(3) See that the cows have access to
plenty of clean water—a thirsty cow’s milk
will be more tainted than a good drinker’s.
(4) Take every possible precaution against
bad smells of every kind, dust, dirt about the
udders and flanks; also rigorously scrutinise
separator utensils and methods of handling
milk.
This all means care and time, but it pays
the best of any part of the business of dairy-
farming. »
Now for top-dressing. I have never found
it injure the flavor of milk or cream, rather
the reverse, But it is possible to so overdo
it in a bountiful season as to cause a too-rank
growth of grass; and I am led to' infer
that our butter taint is caused in that way.
Morning’s milk is of good flavor chiefly be-
cause the cows, through camping overnight,
have not been recently feeding off rank pas-
ture.
When the plantbreeder gives us a flavor-
less lucerne and a taintless clover, as he gave
us the odorless onion, he will confer a great
benefit on Australian dairying.
BURNING OFF.
“A.L.P.”: There is an art in burning off
grasslands—to remove rankness, replenish the
soil, give the grass a fresh start, for sowing
artificial grasses, or for any other purpose.
Often after a series of good wet seasons
even sound grasses go rank. If a man has
not enough stock to cat it out—and no man
has that number to cope with the growth
after a big wet —then the only thing to restore
sweetness is the red broom. But a man can
ruin his country more easily than he can
restore it. During the heat of a dry summer,
with the surface parched and cracking, is no
time to burn. Loose country offers a problem.
If the grass is burned, then the flames get
down the cracks and scorch the roots; the
seed is burned ; the lighter top growths are
wiped out. A desert results. Such country
may only be burned with good results when
the ground is good and tight.
And there is only a limited period with
the ground good and tight: that is after
rain and before the ground dries. The
growth is so quick that, unless a man drops
on to it almost immediately, the grass greens
to the extent of retarding fire. But that is
the safest and best time of all to burn.
The nightly dews following rain will extin-
guish the fire. It can be kept within bounds.
The following growth will come with a rush.
But the only way to get a really good burn
after rain, and when a man may take his
time and use his judgment, is with a carry-
over of last year’s grass—usually dead, dry,
rotten, a harbor for pests. It is better
burned. That means, of course, one may only
burn every second year. In any case, every
second year is quite enough, if not too
much, for the sound country of the west —
I am speaking particularly of Queensland.
The best time of all to burn would be just
before rain. That washes the ash into the soil
immediately, revitalising the burnt grasses
and replenishing the earth. But man has
not yet learned to judge what is “just before
rain.”
On the wetter area—on the coastal fall,
for instance—many “artificial” grasses have
a very higher nutritious value than the
native stuff. That cannot be said of the
interior. No introduced grass may stand
up to the hardships which the Mitchell
endures. Almost without exception those
coastal grasses come with one big run after
the annual wet. No introduced stuff has a
chance to cope with them then. Almost they
smother themselves. The best way with
them is the bi-annual burn. As soon as the
wet season has passed, and normality is
approached, the red broom should take
charge. The native grasses will not come
big and strong again until the following wet.
That gives the introduced stuff eight to nine
months to find its footing. Those introduced
grasses will have to battle with the native
stuff for the next two years, till another
year’s carry-over of dead stuff allows another
clean burn and the sowing of more seed.
Most of that introduced grass has the
native stuff at a disadvantage, and thus it
gains possession if conditions are anywhere
near suitable. The native grass has its soil
worked out and has been draining it of the
same old constituents for years and years.
The introduced stuff strikes a virgin field,
with plant food to its own liking. It thrives
and takes possession. Apart from that, the
native son of the soil only goes to seed once
a year—that is after the big wet. It has
been trained to do that for countless genera-
tions. The introduced stuff has not learned
that trick. Every time there is an inch of
i-ain it thinks another effort is due from it,
and another spawning is expected. It has
plant food in abundance, and it must run to
seed every rain or burst. It prefers not to
burst. Particularly is this noticeable with
couch and Rhodes—both good grasses and
worth many times the wasty coastal stuff
they displace.
THE YEAR’S WOOL MARKET.
Dalgetys have been making their monu-
mental yearly survey of the wool market.
They find that Australia in the past season
sold 2.481,255 bales as against 2.553,321 the
year before, and got £27,645,745 for it as
against £33,024,062. The average value was
£ll 2s. lOd. as against £l3 ss. 9d. for 1929-
30. The tremendous strain which has been
put upon woolsrrowers by the fall in the
market can be guessed at from these aver-
age-per-bale figures for all Australasia for
10 years past:—
i 1921-22.. £l5 8 1 1926-27.. £2113 0
' L 922-23.. 22 9 8 1927-28.. 24 19 11
1923- 29 9 9 1928-29.. 21 10 6
1924- 331310 1929-30.. 13 2 2
1925- 20 19 4 1930-31.. 10 13 3
The totals for Commonwealth and Austral-
asia respectively have been -
Season. Commonwealth. Australasia.
1921- . . £27,296,723 £41,504,090
1922- .. 46,238,801 54,169,743
1923- . . 53/305,374 64,929,298
1924- . . 55,545,838 69,083.182
1925- . . 57,718,015 65,980,862
1926- .. 55.610,468 64,818,586
1927- . . 60,873,662 73,877,862
1928- .. 57,122,056 69,339,438
1929- . . 33,924,062 39,054,959
1930- . . 27,645,745 31,204,332
Among selling centres Sydney (with New-
castle) handled 43 p.c. of the entire Aus-
tralian clip; the totals for the various
centres were as follows: —
Sydney* 1,063,679
Melbourne and Geelongt.. .. 577,209
Adelaide . . . . .. . . 173,880
Perth 167,646
Bris ane . . . . . . .. 456,987
Tasmania . . .. . . 41,854
Total 2,481,255'
Decrease . , . . . . 72,066
*lncluding Newcastle,
tlncluding Ballarat and Albury.
Of the larger selling centres only Brisbane
increased its sales last season compared with
the previous year.
Among buyers France came first in the
Sydney market, Japan second, Germany
third* U.K. fourth; but on Australasian
figures the U.K. comes first (27 p.c.), then
France and Japan (each 18 p.c.), Germany
(15 p.c..). RGgium with Holland (7 p.c.),
Italy with Switzerland (5 p.c.), U.S.A. (3
p.c.), Russia, etc. (1 p.c.), local users (6
p.c.). Five years ago Japan took only 8 p.c.
LUCERNE AND FAT LAMBS.
“Golightly” : Lucerne is great stuff to help
lambs Oa in fattening. I make a practice of
establishing an area to produce my own seed.
When this crop is suitably ripe, I cut with a
mower and straight away chaff with a chaff-
cutter, and broadcast over large areas of pas-
ture land, whenever dry,, bare and dusty, using
a mob of sheep to cover the seed, driving them
to and fro. From this method I am getting
a large area sown .with grazing lucerne at
little or no cost. I also broadcast the seed
under and amongst newly-ringbarked timber,
the falling leaves, bark, twigs and timber
protecting young plants from the stock, and
valuable stands establish themselves. On
self-mulching soil I used to wait until it
rained, then go out and broadcast. This never
succeeded; but when it is dry and dusty,
with the surface hot and blowing about, it
will pay to broadcast cheaply-produced
lucerne seed.
CROSS-BREEDING FOR FAT LAMBS.
“Golightly”: The following average live
weights of full-conditioned rams are a guide
when crossing these breeds, also some com-
parison of their outstanding characters in
relation to fat-lamb production :
Merino (strong-wool), 1601 b. (live weight)—late
maturity; poor mutton value.
Lincoln, 3251b! : —late maturity ; poor mutton value.
Border Leicester, 2701 b.—medium maturity ; medium
mutton \alue.
Romney Marsh, 2401 b.—medium maturity ; medium
mutton value.
South flown, 1701 b.—early maturity; excellent
mutton value.
Dorset Horn, 2401 b.—early maturity; excellent
mutton value.
When two pure breeds are crossed and their
get blend well, they are of more robust
growth and earlier maturing than either of
their parents. Thus of the above breeds
Dorset Horn crossed with Border Leicester
or Romney Marsh would give the maximum
average drop of early-maturing fat sucker
lambs.
TOP-DRESSING.
“Tallama”: In common with other dairy-
men, the farmers of the Comboyhe Plateau,
on the N.S.W. Central North Coast, have
been conducting top-dressing experiments for
several years. Super, has been mainly used,
with unsatisfactory results on the whole.
Clovers come away well, but the paspalum,
unless the mat has been broken by the
plough or rotary hoe, 1 gives practically no
response. Even when the mat is broken we do
not get results we are entitled to expect. This
is due, as far as I can see, to the fact that
the plateau is naturally deficient in lime.
Super., broken down by sulphuric acid, may
be a great forcing agent for two or three
years, but soon makes the land sour. I
believe this can be counteracted by using a
third of lime for all super, used. Sulphate
of ammonia algo has a tendency to make the
land sour, as it contains a percentage of acid.
This is the reason why many farmers around
here have lost faith in super, alone.
The ideal top-dressing in my mind is the
S. African varieties, used with success in
Maoriland. Two of them are Gafsa and
Phosfull. They are 90 per cent, soluble,
do not require sulphuric acid to break them
down and hold intact their sweet lime.
My opinion of their value has increased
after observing the recent experiments of
Mr. George Allan, a farmer on this plateau.
Last year he broke up some acres of heavily-
matted paspalum with the rotary hoe and
sowed rye corn without much success. This
year this area was ploughed, harrowed and
sown with soft grasses, viz., cocksfoot, Wim-
mera and Italian rye and a mixture of
phalarus, prairie, red and white clovers.
These were sown during the latter part of
February and top-dressed with Phosfull on
March 28. The growth has been exception-
ally good and will provide excellent feed for
winter and spring—a period when feed is
badly needed on this plateau. This is the first
central-coast experiment that I know of made
with Phosfull.
BULLOCK-YOKES.
“Mulgo”: The timber commonly used in
N.S.W. and Queensland for making bullock-
yokes is creek or river oak. This tree is the
largest and most plentiful of the casuarinas,
and grows to 100 ft. high, with a clear barrel
of 30ft. or 40ft. to the first branches.
It is easily split, is strong and durable, and
has a pretty grain; but it is a heavy timber,
which not only adds to the burden of the
bullocks, but makes harder work for the
bullock puncher who has to yoke and unyoke
them. The common substitutes, as forest
oak and brush box, are also on the heavy
side. When the plates, bows and chains are
on them, they are a neck-aching load to
carry. A yoke should be light and easy
to handle; a heavy yoke is particularly
awkward when dealing with young bullocks.
I have made good yokes with beech (cud-
geree or bolly beech is the best) and wild
apple (angopliora). The latter wood is
usually despised, but has rarely been put
to a practical test. When a boy I was inter-
ested in the building (at Irvington, N.S.W,)
of the river-coastal steamer Erpma Pyers.
still running on the Tweed River, and was
surprised to notice that a good deal of the
timber used in the framework was wild
apple. That gave me a different idea from
the generally-expressed opinion of that timber.
Other woods that make good yokes when
properly seasoned are grey sassafras, sally
wattle and white ash. No doubt plenty of
scrub woods are just as good—or better.
Most, of them require seasoning in the shade,
or under cover. That is no bar, for many
makers bury river oak for some time before
working it.
Most handy bulloekies make their own
yokes—and in a string of teams, in timber-
hauling districts, one sees a queer collection
of makes. The chief defects are in the size,
ends and boring; some are deep and narrow,
a hard yoke on the neck; some have thick,
abruptly-sloping ends, which are difficult to
hold; others are bored at the edge of the dip
that fits over the neck, which results in the
skin of the neck being caught between the
bow and the edge of the hole; others again
have too much hollow in the back. Many a
driver inflicts untold misery on his beasts
by the yokes he chops out for them to work
in. I like a flat yoke, about 4in. wide and
about half that thickness, thin at the ends,
and with a slope that makes it easy to hold.
The bowholes on each side should be bored
on a flat surface underneath, well clear from
the edge of the neck curve; and the centre
hole, for the ring, exactly in the middle of
the yoke. Straight boring is important for
the man who has to use the yoke and the bul-
lock that has to work in it. I have seen
yokes whose bowholes were bored with a
slight slant forward at one end and a slant
rearward at the other. A bullock with a
yoke like this couldn’t be expected to work as
well as one that had a properly-balanced yoke.
DETERIORATION OF MERINO WOOL.
“Valerin”: The complaints of deteriora-
tion in our merino wool which come to hand
from manufacturing centres are justifiable.
Of late years there has been a marked
want of evenness in fleece wool, and large
dealers say it is now almost impossible to
get a big line of wethers carrying uniform
fleeces. This is largely due to the rams.
In days of boom wool-prices studbreeders
could not supply the demand for flock rams.
This brought out “breeders” who purchased
east-for-age or stud reject ewes from recog-
nised studbreeders, joined them up with
rams from another famous stud and sold the
progeny as high-class rams of ancient
lineage. No care was exercised in selecting,
mating or classing, so that a mongrel type of
ram was released on unsuspecting buyers.
I have seen several well-bred flocks spoilt
by the introduction of this blood.
Another feature is the careless preparation
of many clips, for which contract shearing
is mainly responsible; the contractor is out
to get the job done as quickly as possible, and
shearers are chosen for speed. Skirting and
piece-picking are done in a slipshod manner,
and the lower grades, bellies, stains and
locks, are often completely neglected. Many
modern classers, too, have an idea that
their work is not done properly unless an
abnormal number of fleece classes are made,
though buyers prefer long lines to star lots.
The Graziers’ Associations and brokers
could assist growers by clearly outlining the
requirements of the trade.
MAIZE CULTURE.
“Mealies” : Maize, for some years neglected
by farmers who used to grow large quanti-
ties, is coming into favor again, thanks largely
to higher duties on imported grain. Growers
were apt to sneer at the scientific cultural
methods advocated by the experts of the agri-
cultural departments. In N. S. Wales at least
there has been a strong move in the other
direction, so convincing have been the results
of departmental field competitions. In the
Kangaroo Valley district a few years ago a
crop of from 60 to 70 bushels an acre was
considered satisfactory. To-day, under im-
proved methods, Some farmers*are getting as
high as 125 bushels to the acre, while the
general increase averages about 25 per cent.
Early ploughing and the use of fertilisers
has been responsible for the improvement.
The land must be thoroughly well tilled be-
fore planting, with the application of from
IJcwt. to 2cwt. of blood and bone per acre
worked in at the first discing. This gives
the slow-acting animal manure usually em-
ployed a chance to mature in time to give
the best results to the crop. A super, dress-
ing at the rate of from to 2ewt.
should follow the bone-and-manure dressing.
Some interesting figures in this connection
have recently been made available from
actual experience. Land at £5O per acre,
interest or rent at 7 per cent*, £3 10s.;
ploughing and initial harrowing, £1 55.:
dicing and harrowing twice, and rolling,
155.; planting, scuffling and spring toothing,
£i; harvesting and cartage, £2; husking and
shelling, £2 ; manures, £1; seed, 25.; in all
£ll 12s. per acre. With a 00-bushel yield
the cost would be about 2s. 7d. per bushel,
with a reduction in the case of a heavier
return. With the average Sydney price at
3s. 6d. a bushel, there should be a profit on
those figures.
(Continued on Page 26.)


From
Cask
to
Bottle
. . Under
Commonwealth
Government . .
Supervision . .
sn
1
w
£§£l
isi
sss**»
MM
H
s*^
£$
H
>V
r.m
i
o
AT' '" ‘ 15
*w£ssmm:hi*sp
i : WZM
a
W
if/-’? ■.-’ r^
lass
.
BOTTLED IN BOND
WHEN a product survives for years the ever-
changing whims and fancies of public taste ...
and when that product not only survives but
GROWS in public approval and demand it must
have outstanding merit.
That Old Court has never ceased to grow in public
favor is a fact that scarcely needs repeating.
The reason is found in its purity, maturity, and
uniform fine quality, AND—in its matchless value.
From cask to bottle these qualities are safeguarded
bv the never ceasing supervision of Common-
wealth Excise Officers. Insist on the Genuine
Old Court Whisky .
a
ttJottourt
e
World's
ANd th £
r * v °un'&'


Cuts the boot bill down
Here s a money-saving Abbey
Cossack. Its sole is doubled. Its
upper, also, is double thickness,
being snugly lined throughout
with soft leather.
The Abbey Cossack is not a
stiff, uncomfortable boot. It is
flexible and easy-fitting. Made
for the roughest conditions, it
outwears any ordinary working
boot. Longer service is guaran-
teed.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- and 40/-
Black Box Calf 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY".
FBI.. 243
After Active Sports
Cuticura
TALCUM
Soothes and Cools'
the Skin
Bathe with Cuticura
Soap, then dust on
Cuticura Talcum
and note how re-
freshed you feel.
Antiseptic and fragrant,
Cuticura Talcum ab-
sorbs perspi-
ration and adds the
finishing touch
to the toilet.
f
mjfl Liuii
utlCurj
Talcum Is. 3d. Soap Is. Ointment
Is. and 2s. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving
SUck le. 6d.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability ol Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
% '
iiiiuii
ONARCH
Ciqai's
> Craig*Aitken
Wholesale Distributors
Sydney N SW.
5
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SPINE BROKEN
TO-DAY—WORLD’S
STRONGEST MAN!
To spend 18 months
in a plaster-of-Paris
jacket his spine
broken after six
weeks of agony in
Lewisham Hospital,
and then to astound
the world by lifting
a horse weighing
a ton, is the amazing
story behind Don
Athaldo.
Crashing from a high
ceiling and falling
across the back of a
chair, only the steel-
like muscles of the
man staved off death.
This despite the fact
that he was dis-
charged from six
armies throughout
the world as medi-
cally unfit!
Those who intimately
know Don can scarce-
ly believe that it is
the same man who
confronts them to-
day. His powerful
body a glorious
triumph of super-
development has
ushered in the dawn
of a new health and happiness to
thousands of Australia’s manhood.
Give him the “weakling”—the man
with a bony frame and lean jaws—
and within a month he will convert
the shapeless mass into a model of
muscular beauty. Is there another
person in the whole of Australasia
who can repeat this amazing man’s
feats of strength?
If there is—no matter how big
or how strong—Don will give
him his cheque for £250. Don
would be happv to meet the
man who can really extend him.
Imagine having your body literally
torn between four powerful horses—
two on each side! Or lifting a motor-
car and platform weighing 1 ton
1 scwt., or, just for fun, slinging a
DON ATHALDO,
Re-creator of Men.
The following papers—“ Smith's,”
“Telegraph,” “Truth,” “Arrow.”
“Sportsman.” “Physical Culture,”
“Referee, ’ “Sun,” “Free Lance,”
and other leading- papers—say :
■‘Don Athaldo, strongest man in
the world.”
plank around your
waist with 15001 b. of
humanity on board!
They are a few of
A t h a 1 d o’s trump
cards—and, what’s
more, they have all
been played under
official supervision,
com p r i sing both
press and police.
When you meet
Athaldo you come
into contact with a
personality as mag-
netic as it is force-
ful. His sincerity—
that anxious desire
of his to get the best
out of you has
earned him the
nation’s respect and
the title of the
world’s super-man of
strength.
In an amazing 84-
page book, which
Athaldo has person-
ally edited, dealing
with the dynamics of
super - development,
he will convince the
most sceptical reader
of his astonishing
prowess, which reads like a Greek
fable. This will be sent to any reader
of “The Bulletin” who writes to the
ATHALDO INSTITUTE OF
PHYSICAL CULTURE,
64-66 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
For your convenience we have placed
this coupon. Fill it in, and let
Athaldo do the rest.
ATHALDO,
fi'i Oxford Street, Sydney.
Send me your book. I’ve enclosed
Gd. m Stamps for Postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
QUESTIONS ANSAVERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How to clear water in an excavated
tank of 1000 cub. yd. capacity? (2) Cost’?
—4892.
(1) Dissolve 561 b. of alumino-ferric,
obtainable from Elliott Bros., O'Connell-
street, Sydney, in a convenient quantity of
water and sprinkle or spray on the surface
of the tank water. A day or so must be
allowed for the material to do its work. (2)
195., plus freight.
(1) What are the habits of the Ambrosia
beetle? (2) How to prevent it infesting the
limbs and the trunk of an apple-tree? —sol7.
(1) The females bore a tunnel beneath
the bark of a tree right round the branch,
in which they deposit their eggs. The branch
usually dies and the grubs which hatch in-
fest. the tree also. After several months'
feeding the grubs pass into a. resting stage
during which they transform into the adult
insects, which after mating lay their eggs
and cause fresh infestation. There is pro-
bably one generation each year. (2) Infested
limbs should be cut away and burnt. If the
trees are kept healthy by cultivating the
ground and manuring it occasionally there
will be little infestation from this type of
borer.
(1) Is the growing of Australian tobacco
profitable? (2) How much tobacco do toe
import, and how much local leaf do wc use?
(3) When is it expected that Australia will
be able to supply all the tobacco it needs?
(4) Do W. D.' and H. 0. Wills operate
freely on Australian leaf ? (5) Are growers
sure of a payable market if they produce
sufficient for home consumption? —4B49.
(1) Yes, provided nothing but high-quality
leaf is produced and efficiently marketed.
(2) For the year glided June 30, 1930,
20,283,8131 b. of raw leaf valued at £1,768,686,
and 2,198,4571 b. of manufactured tobacco,
cigars and cigarettes, valued at £788,064, were
imported. During the same year the Austra-
lian production of raw leaf amounted to
1,384.5321 b., all of which was consumed in
the Commonwealth. (3) Can’t say. Develop-
ment will depend largely upon improvements
in culture. (4) The firm bought the major
portion of last season’s Texas (Q.) crop.
(5) Can’t say how much local leaf the Aus-
tralian market could absorb, but the tariff
of ss. 2d. per pound gives the local grower a
strong advantage.
(1) What age should Muscovy ducks be
to fatten for Christmas? (2) Feed required?
(3) What diseases afflict ducks, and how
to guard against them? (4) Ilow to care
for the ducklings? —soo4.
(1) They are at the best age to kill at
from 16 to IS weeks. (2) Finely-ground
wheat, oats, barley and maize mixed with
milk, and plenty of succulent green stuff
(approx. 30 p.c.). AA r atcr should be before
them day and night in vessels deep enough
for them to immerse their heads over the
eyes (swimming water is not necessary).
(3) and (4) If propei'ly fed and kept under
clean conditions ducks are not likely to
contract diseases. Consult “Ducks,” obtain-
able from Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne.
(1) Could water be economically pumped
' for irrigation purposes by means of electric
power if same were available at a reasonable
cost? (2) Would it be practicable to pump
water at the rate of 10,000 gallons an hour
to a height of 300 feet? (3) What power
in kw. would be requiredf (4) Wcmld the
maintenance costs be high?— so29.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) A 24-h.p. or
18-kw. machine would be suitable. (4)
Not unduly high if the cost of power is
reasonable.
Gan you suggest an equitable basis for
share farming N.B.W. tobacco land? —510 S.
The matter is dependent on so many
factors that there is a wide variation in the
basis on which share-farming agreements are
arranged. Communicate with the Secretary
of the Northern Tobacco Growers’ Associa-
tion. Tamworth, or the Southern District
Tobacco Growers’ Association, Tumut, who
may be able to place you in touch
with growers who are prepared to oper-
ate on the shares system. If particulars
of any proposals obtained in this way are
submitted to the N.S.AV. Agriculture Depart-
ment, an endeavor will be made to assist
with advice as to whether the arrangement is
a reasonable one.
What Sydney manufacturer buys white
maize, as mentioned on Land Page (B.
S/7/’3l), and is the grain being extensively
grown? —s2l2.
Kellogg Pty., Ltd., Botany, Sydney. For
four years past this co. has been giving £l5O
a year in prizes, distributed over the Upper
North Coast, LoAver North and Central
.Coast, South Coast, Tumut-Gundagai and
New England. This season’s prizes were
awarded in July, and it was announced that
they would be the last, as the purpose of
the competitions—to induce farmers to grow
white maize—had been aehiev T ed. The com-
peting varieties Avere: Hickory King (27
entries), Silvermine (13), Murrumbidgee
AVhite (12), Giant AATiite (8), Boone
County AA'hite (4), Grace’s AVhite and lowa
Silvermine (1 each). Prize-winners:
Hickory King (8), Giant AVhite, Murrum-
bidgee AATiite and Silvermine (3 each) and
Grace’s White (1). Murrumbidgee White is
favored by growers in your district (Tumut).
Yorkshire fog grass is taking possession
of my rye-grass pastures on black-soil river
flats. (1) [s ploughing and re-sowing neces-
sary to destroy it? (2) Would top-dressing
eradicate it in time? (3) Is Poa fluitans
niore suitable than Poa aquatiea for sowing
in narrow, shallow lagoons that are dry in
summer? (4) Will either encroach on good
pastures? (5) Are these poa grasses pre-
ferable to strawberry clovers? —so3B.
(1) The Yorkshire fog would quickly re-
establish itself unless the conditions are
made more favorable for the rye grass.
Better management of the grazing, coupled
with drainage, should serve to maintain the
rye grass. (2) Not unless it was combined
Avith different management conditions. (3)
Neither is suitable. (4) No, providing the
good pasture is not subject to excessive
moisture. (5) Poa grasses will grow under
very much wetter conditions. Where straw-
berry clover will thrive it i.s preferable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Minthall”: Not a few recruits to the
land spoil their hopes, and their cheques,
by not learning how to market. The farm
next door grew some thousands of cases of
fruit last year, but kept it till it was ripe;
result, disaster. New tomato-growers must
learn that fruit needs casing when mature,
with just a touch of color here and there.
This travels, keeps and sells well. Pack it
when it is colored too much, and it's not even
a sauce-maker's lot.
"lvurrajong”; Every sheepman has cursed
right-angled corners of sheepyards. Save the
crushing and smothering of sheep in such
yards by running a short panel of fencing
—rails and netting will do —across each
corner; the spaces thus enclosed can be
utilised by planting good dual-purpose trees
(the kurrajong. for example) there. The
shade is valuable when it is necessary to
yard sheep in hot weather, and in drought
time every fodder tree is precious.
“Tallama”: To counteract scouring in
calves I add a pint of limewater to every
ten gallons of milk; but if they do scour
give them a tablespoon of castor oil on the
first sign, and no milk at that feeding. At
dinner-time give them a dessertspoon of fine
salt, placing it on the back of the tongue. At
next meal feed a quart of fresh, warm milk.
Repeat this quart of milk for the next day
or two until all scour has disappeared ; then
gradually bring them back to their usual
ration.
“C.4H.”: A good gate hinge can be easily
made on the farm; all that is needed is some
discarded tyre-iron from the sulky. Round
off ends of upright on end of gate where hinge
is needed; then shape iron round each end of
upright and nail to gate-post; and you will
have a hinge that will not allow gate to sag.
Bore holes where needed with brace and
drill.
“Jack Point” : Complete darkening of the
glass portion of the door is advisable during
an incubqtor hatch. If the batch is a good
one, darken the door and then keep right
away for 24 hours. Having a peep at pro-
gress will cause a stampede of chicks towards
the light.
“Floodmark”: To make a gallows for use
when slaughtering a fat. bullock, cut two
straight poles, 20ft. long and Bin. in diameter
at small ends, with good wide forks there.
Put these poles sft. in the ground, fork ends
upright. Cut a straight pole lift, and Bin.
in diameter at small end, with a good wide
fork there. Place this pole horizontally be-
tween the two upright forks. Get a 15ft.
light but strong sapling. Bolt the centre
length of this sapling securely in the fork
of the horizontal pole. Tie to each end of
sapling a piece of half-inch rope, greenhide
or fencing-wire 25ft. long. Tie firmly to the
centre of the horizontal pole a 20ft. length
of inch wire rope or chain. Cut a substan-
tial gambrel 4ft. long by Sin. in diameter,
and fasten to the end of wire rope or chain.
You’ll have a windlass gallows that will
lift any fat bullock.
“Beef-O”: Caustic soda may be better than
washing soda for dissolving arsenic (B.
22/7/’3l), but in preparing a mixture for
cattle-dipping it is a washout. The caustic
soda-arsenic fluid takes the hair off and is
too severe, and if the mixture is made weak
enough to counteract this, it won’t kill the
ticks. I still find washing-soda and arsenic
mixed in the correct ratios and well boiled
the best.
“Anon”: What lure do you use for the
fruit-fly ? Try human urine. I know no-
thing better or half so cheap.
“Dimon”: When building sheds, make hip-
roofs—unless al loft is required. The whole
top can then be covered with iron, or what-
ever the material used, to the wall-plates
on all four sides, and heavy winds can’t get
under it as they can under the ends of a
gable roof. Build the big shed under one
roof, avoiding skillions. A skillion can
always be added afterwards if required.
Steep-pitched .roofs are not necessary. A
low roof ryns the water off just as well, and
it is easy to get about on when repairs are
needed.
“Jayenne”: The shape of tree favored in
Australian orchards has innumerable advant-
ages and one disadvantage—it is open
to the heat of the sun, and a dried-out, in-
elastic outer bark is the result. The ten-
dency thence is towards dead wood, unless
the bound bark is released. It is a simple
business to draw a sharp knife from the
ground to last year’s wood in each arm, going
just deep enough to cut the sap-wood. It
is a job that should be done before the sap
rises.
“0.K.”: When covering a shed with
stringybark, I first drive one nail in the
middle of each sheet. This bolds the sheets
in correct position with the required overlap
until the roof is ready to have the poles
put on. I use very light pole-riders—not
more than 2im in diameter —and fasten these
down by bending a piece of fencing-wire,
driving one fork on either side of the pole,
through the sheet of bark in the middle, and
twist inside. You then have a perfectly
water-tight roof, and if you give sufficient
overlap to allow for shrinkage it will last
a lifetime.
“Go Do”: It is advisable to buy seed
potatoes from growers with a reputation for
selling good stuff. If you are forced to buy
from an unknown source, see that the seed
is well graded and does not contain any
foreign varieties. Select large rather than
small tubers; the large ones are less liable
to carry virus. They are more expensive
but are worth the difference.
“Dimon”: Sheep are sometimes useful
allies on the farm. A Victorian grower,
noticing a horde of caterpillars approaching
his crops, mustered his sheep, and with the
help of his dog drove them up and down
until the pattering feet had stamped out
the pest.
South Queensland cotton-growers who were
pinched by the collapse of the first boom are
coming at the crop again, and with the benb-
fit of past experience, have been getting some
very good results. In America the average
acre yield is 5401 b., much of it, of course,
from land that has been cropped with cotton
for long periods. In AVest Moreton 10001 b.
to the acre is common, and one man near
Gatton has averaged 24721 b. per acre from
3j: acres, w y orth at current prices £129 per
acre. The season certainly has been excep-
tional.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Laxly (28), Vic., English teacher, honors degree and
diploma in Education, Liverpool Uni., wants position
as companion or governess in sunny, dry climate,
beginning next year.—sl6l.
Lady, Sydney, educated, compelled to give up own
home, cook, manager, nursing exp., would keep house
for one or two gentlemen.—sl64.
Advertising lay-out man, late Sydney “Evening-
News’’ staff, wants position.—sl6s.
Young man (18), Q’land, wants job as drover or
other work on station anywhere.—so 77.
Young lady, Sydney, shorthand and typing exp. in
editorial dept. Sydney weekly, wants position with
newspaper, advertising agent or bookseller.-—5078.
Original Anzac, married, 25 .years exp. with .stock,
wants '.management' or head stockman’s job cm. cattle
station; fair mechanic, can keep books. Last job
nine years. Prefer Q’land, but will go anywhere.
5098. .
Qualified accountant (22), Sydney, wants position
in country. Can do manual work. —5114.
Nurse, N.S.W'., 4 years’ exp., is available lo take
charge of invalid, male or female. Refs. 5099.
By middle-aged man, Sydney, position of trust;
24 years last position. Refs.-—5136.
Ex.-A.I.F. man,- Sydney, seeks employment any
capacity clerical or otherwise. Refs. —5137.
Young man (20), 2-years’ sheep and 1 year cattle
experience, wants job as jackeroo on large Q’la rid
property.-—5141.
Irishman (34), exrlmp. officer, wants work on
tobacco farm to learn. Tainworth (N.S.W.) pre-
ferred. —5146.
Blacksmith and tool-sharpener wants work in New
Guinea or Islands. —5147.
Artist,- Sydney,' wants free use small, detached
room, country preferred. Will improve property.
Refs.—s 224.
Mapping and survey draftsman (37), exp. litho,
hydro-electric and municipal work, wants position,
M. preferred—s22s.
. To buy back numbers “Reveille” (R.S.A. journal).
—5145. ’
To buy illustrated editions of Mark .Twain’s “Tom
Sawyer” and “Huckleberry Finn,” published about
1884.—5128.
To buy “Bodger and the Boarders,” by E. O Ferrall
(“Kodak”).—soB2.
To buy “Historical Records of N.5.W.," complete;
Teuch’s, Collins’s, Hunter’s, and other early records,
arid R. A. Historical Society’s records.—sl74.
To buy second-hand copy of ‘fSeventh Heaven,” by
Nina Murdoch.—-5209.
To buy Perfection oil-stove, two- or three-burner,
and electric jug.—s2lo.
Exchange, fortnight- Sept., cosy cottage, Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.), for similar home at seaside,
Manly preferred.—s2ll.
To exchange full course of physical culture for
“Instantaneous Personal Magnetism” or books of
poems by Will Ogilvie.—slBB.
To exchange a course in short-story writing for
useful b00k5.—5167.
To borrow or buy copy of “T. Leaves.”—s2ls.
W ords of old Scotch song- “The Road to the Isles,”
of poem “I Have a White Man Working for Me”
and war . poem “The Gasometer,” .by Mc-(?ay.--5189.
Wanted ex-members of 22nd Bat., A.1.F., to send
address to F. C. Russell, 11 Raleigli-street, Windsor
(Vic.).—5144.
Information Sought.
lam a N.S.W. orehardist. For income-
tax purposes can I claim depreciation on
plants, sheds, horses, fences and. irrigation
ditches used in connection with the orchard?
Ij so, what percentage is allowed? —4865.
Depreciation may be claimed as follows :
For Federal income-tax purposes, structural
improvements (sheds, fences, etc.), 3 p.c.;
horses used as plant, 10 p.c.; general plant.
10 p.c. For State income-tax purposes,
general plant, 10 p.c. No depreciation is
allowed on structural improvements, build-
ings, etc. Depreciation on trees and vines
is not deductible for either Federal or State
purposes, replacements only being allowable
in this respect.
(1) Is a promissory note recognised by
the Court? (2) Can I sue for a p.n. that
has been dishonored? (3) Can 1 sue if it
has been due over six years? —sols.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes; notice of the dis-
honor should be given to the maker. (3)
The limit is .six years unless the debt has
been kept alive by partial payments.
(1) What residential qualifications must
a person wishing to secure a. divorce in
N. possess? (2) Cost? —5040.
(1) The person must have been domiciled
in the State for three years or upwards.
(2) Would depend on whether the suit was
contested or not, and various other circum-
stances.
(1) Is a resident of N.S.W. liable for
N.S. W. unemployment relief tax on income
derived from other States? (2) How is
"income” defined in the N.S.W. Unemploy-
ment Relief Act? (3) Is he liable for
N.S.W. income tax on income derived from
outside the State? (4) Where should a
N.S.W. resident in receipt of income from
all over Australia submit returns? —4Bo9.
(1) Yes. (2) Section 14 states that “in-
come” includes income within the meaning
of the principal Act, and also all income
dei’ived by a resident of the State, or by a
N.SAV. co., to which Section 31 of the prin-
cipal Act is applied by Clause 1 of the schedule
to that Act, from any source outside the State
and otherwise than from the carrying on
of any trade or business, not being an in-
vestment business. (3) No. (4) At Taxa-
tion Office, Melbourne, for Federal purposes.
For N.S.W. purposes a return should be
furnished to the Taxation Dept., Sydney,
showing income earned in N.S.W. only, and
deductions claimable therefrom.
Most suitable plant for low garden hedge ?
—5045.
_ Take your pick from this list of shrubs.
Camellias, various colors; oleanders, parti-
c ’ u lffrly white and pink; hibiscus, single and
double pabutilon. (Chinese lantern ) ; acacias:
Imddleias; globosa (orange) and veitchiana
( purple) ; callistemon (bottle-brush) ; Christ-
mas bush; ceanothus; eratsegus (excellent
for poor soil) ; viburnum and leptospermum
(crimson-flowering tea-tree). All these can
be pruned to make the height required, will
need little attention and will stand up against
wind.
How to tan skins by the sulphuric acid
and bran process?. —so93.
Pour five quarts boiling water over two
quarts bran, let stand a short time, then
strain. Make about an equal quantity of
salt water by putting into blood-warm water
as much salt as will dissolve in it. Then
mix the bran water with the salt water, and
when the mixture is lukewarm but not
warmer, add to every gallon one ounce of
sulphuric acid. Then immerse the skins,
stirring them about occasionally until they
are tanned, which should be in about 20
minutes. Rinse in clean water, and hang in a
shady place to dry. If the skins are very
dry before beginning the tanning, soak them
in' cold water until they are soft.
I have an alternating current generator
which delivers 240 volts at 5 amperes. (1)
What power is being given into the circuit?
(2) How could it be measured? (8) What
is the difference between the true power and
apparent power in an A.C. circuit? —slls.
(1) it is impossible to ascertain the true
power in an A.C. circuit by voltmeter and
ammeter readings. The apparent power
would be in this case 1200 watts. (2) By
a wattmeter. (3) The true power as indi-
cated by the wattmeter is equal to the appa-
rent power multiplied by the power factor,
which may vary between almost zero and one,
according to the proportion of resistance,
capacity and inductance contained in the
circuit.
(1) Where can I obtain training for the
position of marincicireless operator in Sydney?
(2) Cost of course? (3) Is the student
given assistance in obtaining a position after
he has qualified? (4) What are the pros-
pects of employment? (5) Educational
qua li fixations ? —5084.
(1) Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clar-
ence-street. (2) £5O. (3) Yes. (4) Not
very bright at present. (5) Primary school
standard.
(1) Is skittles a legal game, and can it
be played on hotel premises'? (2) How is
the game played? (3) What are the dimen-
sions of the pins and balls? (4) Cost of
outfit, and where procurable? —44B3.
(1) It is not unlawful in itself, but if
played for stakes the licensee is liable to
prosecution for permitting gaming on his
premises. (2) Two players, standing 21ft.
from the pins, each endeavor to knock down
as many as possible of the nine pins in as
few throws as possible. If the nine pins
are knocked down in one throw three points
are scored; two throws, two; in three
throws, one. If pins are still standing after
three throws, nothing. (3) The nine wooden
pins are cigar-shaped, about 12in. high, each
weighing from 71b to 91b. The flattish cir-
cular wooden balls weigh from 101 b. to 141 b.
(4) From Anthony Horderns, Sydney. Price,
6s. 6d., plus freight.
(1) If I divide my property amongst my
family how long have they to hold it before
it is free from probate duties? (2) What
amount of probate duty is payable {Federal
and N.S.W.) on £16,000?—5060.
(1) If the gift or settlement is made
within three years prior to the death of the
person making the will,, the property will
be subject to duty. (2) If that is the net
value, Federal tax, 3 4-5 p.c., with rebate
of one-third to widow, children or grand-
children: N.S.W. (new’ duties), approxi-
mately 6 p.c.
What are the First, Second and Third
Internationals, and are they all operating
at present? —sls6.
The First International was the Inter-
national Working Men’s Association, formed
in London in 1864, which fell into the hands
of anarchists and collapsed. The Second
was formed at a congress in Paris in 1900.
It was definitely anti-war, and collapsed in
1914. It was reconstructed 'in 1918, its
main strength being the adherence of the
British Labor party and the German majo-
rity socialists. In the meantime the Third
International had been formed in Stockholm
in 1907. and held its fii’st congress in Mos-
cow in 1919. It is essentially communist
in character. The Second and Third Inter-
nationals exist separately, and there is yet
anothei*, the Vienna International, member-
ship of which is open to socialists not affili-
ated with either of the other two.
(1) Arc aviation pilots carrying passen-
gers allowed to perform aerobatic stunts
whilst so engaged? If not, what happens to
them if they do? Any exemptions? (2)
Are pilots allowed to fly under the Sydney
Harbor Bridge? —sl9o.
(1) No. The non-observance of the regu-
lation prohibiting aerobatic stunts whilst
carrying passengers is punishable with the
suspension of the offending pilot’s license.
The only occasion when this regulation may
be varied is when the pilot has the written
consent of the Minister for Defence to
engage in flying displays whilst carrying
passengers, which must be with the full con-
sent of the passengers. (2) No, a pilot who
did so would have his license suspended.
It has been stated that, plum puddings in
which rum is an ingredient must be mixed
under the supervision of a customs officer
Is this correct? What are the facts? 5185
The regulation, issued last May applies
only in cases where a drawback of the full
amount of excise duty paid on Australian
rum used in the manufacture of plum pud-
dings for exportation is claimed.
(1) What salaries did the Commonwealth
Constitution allot to members of the Senate
and House of Reps. ? How often and by
what amounts have their salaries been
increased since? (2) When was payment of
member's of Parliament introduced in
N.S.W.? (3) When have salary increases
occurred since in that State and what arc
members paid now? —5170.
(1) £4OO p.a. In 1907 this was increased
to £6OO p.a. and in 1920 to £lOOO p.a. (2)
In 1889, when £3OO p.a. was paid to M’s.L.A.;
increased to £5OO p.a. in 1912, to £875 p.a. in
1920, reduced to £6OO p.a. in 1922, restored
to £875 p.a. in 1925 and reduced to £743
15s. p.a. in 1930. Leg. Councillors are not
paid.
How is the seed of the staghorn fern col-
lected, when is it ready for collection and
how should it be propagated? —49B9.
When the brown patch under the frond
is ready it will discharge a brown dust. This
should be caught by shaking or tapping the
frond on to a sheet of paper. This powder
is the spores, which take the place of seed
in ferns. Sow this on a finely-sifted light
soil surface, kept moist but not wet. A good
plan is to sow in a pan and place this in a
larger pan or saucer with water always at
the bottom. The soil in the seed pan will
draw sufficient of this water up to keep the
surface moist. The pan should be kept warm,
but not in the direct sun. When young-
plants are large enough to handle, transfer
them from the seed pan to pots or boxes until
they gradually make flattened growth, when
they may be fastened to pieces of wood.
Can amphibious motor-cars cross deep
rivers? How are they worked? Do they
cross rivers under their own power or must
they be towed? —5193.
Various devices have been applied to make
automobiles amphibious. The latest instance
is the experiments being made in England
with air-bag floats to fit a car for explora-
tion purposes. In this case the car is
towed, but a means of converting the driv-
ing-wheels into paddle-wheels has been tried
in Europe with some success.
(1) I have a crystal wireless set. Do dif-
ferent crystals require different types of
cat’s-whiskers, and which is the best com-
bination? (2) In addition to the ordinary
combination of crystals are there any others
which give good results? (3) Should ordi-
nary solder be used for mounting crystals?
If not, what is the best way to mount them?
---5181.
(1) Yes. With galena, silver, copper or
brass may be used ; with molybdenite, a silver
strip oniy; for silicon, gold or steel; and
for carborundum, a steel contact pressing
heavily on the crystal is necessary. Maxi-
mum constancy in action is attained by
carborundum and steel with a potentiometer
and local battery. (2) Good results have
been obtained from the zincite-bornite com-
bination. Other combinations equally as
good are galena-tellurium, tellurium-zincite,
carborundum-silicon, copper pyrites-tellu-
rium. (3) No, owing to the fact that the
application of the necessary heat to melt
the solder is liable to destroy the sensitivity
of a crystal. The crystal may be held in
position by packing tinfoil around the inside
of the cup. but the most efficient way is to
use a cup in which the crystal is gripped by
set-screws.
(1) Would it be possible to light an
average-sized house with a 12-volt dynamo?
(2) Comprehensive book on house-wiring? —
5025.
(1) Depends upon the power output of
the dynamo and the number of lamps operat-
ing simultaneously, but in any case 32 volts
would be far more economical, less power
being lost in conveying the current over the
wires to the lamps. (2) “Electric Wiring,
Fittings, Switches and Lamps,” by W. P.
Maycock, 16s. 3d., Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
An ehginedrivei' of a train travelling 60
m.p.h. has a rifle with muzzle velocity of 60
m.p.h., and fires at the guard. (1) Will
the guard be hit by the bullet? Why? At
what speed? (2) Will the bullet rest in
the air until the guard bumps into it at the
speed of the train? —s223.
(1) The result will be exactly the same as
if driver and guard were in a stationary
train. (2) It won’t “rest in the air,” because
the air in the train is moving at 60 m.p.h.
Relative to the earth the bullet has no
motion; relative to the train, which delimits
the commencement and finish of its flight,
it has an unimpaired velocity. If the bullet
missed the guard it would drop flat over the
end of the train, bnt its trajectory, charted
in reference to the train, would be perfectly
normal.
I bought a black of land in N. S. Wales
in 1925 and paid £6OOO for it. I sold it in
1928 for £9OOO under contract, £3OOO deposit
and the remainder payable at the end of four
years, bearing interest at 6 per cent. Am
I liable for N.S.W. State tax on the profit
on the date of sale, or at the end of the four
years ? —5060.
In such a case so much of the considera-
tion as would be profit if the sale were for
cash is treated as apnortioned among the
income years over which the payments of
the purchase prica extend, and the amount of
profit assessable in each income year is the
amount which bears the same proportion to
the profit to be apportioned as the amount of
the payments received in the income year
back to the purchase price.
(1) What is a, “Tiolosteric ” barometer?
(2) Correct method of reading the bar-
ometric scale? —sos2.
(1) The word “holosteric” indicates that
the instrument is constructed on the prin-
ciple of the pressure gauge. (2) The scale
on various instruments differs. Sydney
Weather Bureau will advise if you give full
particulars.
Information Supplied.
4594. —Before carving emu eggs soften
them by soaking in warm vinegar or a-solu-
tion of acetic acid in water. Etching rather
than carving is. the modern method. The
shell is coated with beeswax applied warm
with a brush ; the design is scratched through
the wax right down to the shell with an
etcher’s needle. Nitric acid is poured into
the scratches, and in a little while bites
the lines sufficiently into the shell. After
a good washing with water to remove the
acid, the wax can be cleaned off and colors
run into the lines to complete the design.—
“Frig.”
Brief Answers.
C. 8.: Paul Wenz’s publishers are Editions
de la Vraie France, 92 Rue Bonaparte, Paris....
J.M.C.: Cost of filing a petition in bankruptcy in
case cited would be about £7. Can’t advise you
how to raise tbe money... .J.K.W.: You ai’e legally
bound to repay the passage money, and a clearance
could be withheld if you do not pay... . N.E.S.:
Write to the publisher. No particulars regarding
the author are known here.... J.P.: (1) She cannot
set the agreement aside. (2) You are liable only to
the extent of any property you acquired from her
by marriage. (3) You cannot break the contract. It
isn’t your affair. .. .E.C.K.: Registrar-General’s Dept..
Sydney, has records of practically all marriages iii
N. S. Wales between 1800 and 1805; search fee 6>.
. ...R.8.: It is possible for an aeroplane or similar
body above the earth lo be struck by lightning....
W.J.K.: (1) and (2) With the exception of tools of
trade and necessary wearing apparel of himself and
family all his goods are divisible among creditors :
also debts due to him. (3) and (4) The property
comprised in a registered bill of sale is not included
in the insolvent’s goods... .J.N.: If the nurse can
show' that she set aside another engagement and
thereby suffered loss she could sue... .0.T.C.: M ntc
sec., H. V. McKay Charitable Trust Committee.
Sunshine (Vic.) ... .H.D.: Write N.S.W. Govt. Ento-
mologist, Agriculture Dept., Sydney....J.R.H.: Sorry,
but all the Steamship owners we approached declined
to furnish the information... ,N.C.: The first zoo-
logical gardens in Australia were opened at. Botany,
near Sydney, by William Beaumont, licensee of the
Sir Joseph Banks Hotel... .W.H.: The wood of China
box is light-yellow and close grained, but apt to
crack; it has been tried for wood-engraving, and w
used for the handles of implements. Suggestions
have been made for the extraction of a perfume .from
the fragrant white flowers... .N. 8.: See Mopash’s
“Australian Victories in France in 1918.” Most
public libraries have a copy... .A.D.C.: “The Hand
of the Pepper-bird,” by S. de la Rue; “The Black
Republic,” by H. F. Reeve; “The Republic of
Liberia,” by R. C. F. Maugham.. . .W.L.S.: “Re-
straint of Trade in English Law,” by W. A. Sandeiv
son. Price 155..... W.M.: Representatives of the
press outside Australia, visiting Australia for the' pur-
pose of reporting sporting events are exempt from
the payment of N.S.W. State income tax. . . .E.G.K. :
Primage duty is a special ad mlorem duty imposed
on goods imported, in addition to the ordinary tariff
rates applicable to such goods... .G.H.S.: (1) The
arbitration committee presided over by Justice Pike
determined the unimproved value of land in Sydney
which was the subject of appeal before the Land
Valuation Court. The proceedings were held in
camera, and no method or formula of arriving at the
unimproved value was postulated. (2) The usual
method is to deduct the depreciated value of the
improvements from the selling value of the property
. ...D.W.: Write Technological Museum, Sydney, for
“Tung Oil,” Is W.G.R.: (1) No. (2) Apply
Commonwealth Copyright Office, Martin-place, Sydney.
(3) £2 p.a. Apply Secretary, A.J.A., 5 ILamilton-
street, Sydney ILF.: (1) Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Sydney, no longer stock that plough, bnt can
supply shares for it. (2) Cannot trace any agent . . . .
F.C.: Write Agriculture Dept., Brisbane, for pam-
phlet “Banana Weevil Borer”.. .J.V.: From Swain’s,
Pitt-street, Sydney, 3s. 6d..'.. .F.T.: His wife
(second) takes one-third of the estate and the re-
maining two-thirds is divisible among the children.
P.K.: (1) Yes. (2) Returns should be furnished
as for income year 1929-30. (3) Q’land income tax
will not he charged on fixed deposits in N.5.W.....
F. : A simple method of distinguishing between
fibre and bristles is to apply a lighted match.
Bristles will' be singed and shrivel up like human
hair; fibre will burn with a flame, just as wood or
any other vegetable matter.... L.M.C.: You are pro-
tected by the N.S.W. Moratorium Act, but you must
pay interest... .E.M.0.: You could threaten to put
the collection in the hands of a solicitor or agent,
but you would have to pay for the accommodation
if you followed up the threat... .F.K.: A. G. Prit
chard, motor engineer, Wakefield-street, Adelaide. . . .
J.H.J.0.R.: Very few politicians outside Ministers
employ private secretaries. Such jobs are generally
given to a friend or a person belonging to the same
political party whom the politician has had recom-
mended to him W.G.A.E.: Arthur Cocks and Co.,
63 York-street; H. H. Halls and Co., 50 York-street:
Salenger Bros., 6 Wvnyard-street; Willis and Sons,
50 York-street —all Sydney.. . .F.M.G.: If the wife
can show that the furniture was purchased out of her
own separate estate she can sue for damage sus-
tained by its illegal seizure. This applies to both
cases... .V.F.: The wife, if the stock has been pur-
chased out of her own separate estate, should obtain
a receipt in her full name. The property is her
own and needs no further protection against husband
or others A.H.Y.: The storm was, in law, an
“act of God” and your chance of success in an
action for damages against the council would depend
on the evidence of negligence you could produce;
you disclose none... . J.R.D.: Wellington Horticul-
tural Society, Town Hall, Wellington; Canterbury
Horticultural Society, 166 Manchester-street, Christ-
church ; Auckland Horticultural Society, Box 124
G. Auckland—all M.L G.C.T. and D.A.M.K.:
Write to Newton Russell Pattern Arithmetic, 52
Goodhope-street, Paddington, Sydney.... .R.L. : “Nemo
me impune lacessit” is Latin and means “No one
provokes me with impunity”... .R.C.D.: (1) Better
present the full facts to a solicitor. (2) No. .. .
E.M.M.: (1) All politicians, Federal and State, are
liable to the same income taxes to which other per-
sons are subjected. (2) No depreciation is allowable
in respect of property for income-tax purposes.. . .
W.P.H.: A return will be required in respect of the
income derived, which will be taxable for' Federal
purposes. N.S.W. unemployment relief tax is still
Is. in the £ D.J.H.: None whatever, but you might
dispose of a few bunches or roots by advertising in
the “Woman’s Mirror”....J.G.: Write Under-Sec.,
Dept, of Labor, Pretoria... .G. 8.: M. E. Goldstein
is chess champion of N.S.W N.Y T .Z.: (1) Family
endowment tax is not payable in respect of wages
paid by a resident of N.S.W. to a person resident
outside the State in respect of duties performed out-
side the State. (2) A business loss is deductible
from income.... .H.W.W.: (1) The amount of income
from personal exertion which is exempt from N.S.W .
State Income Tax is £249, and Federal Income Tax,
£299. (2) Copies of the Rates Acts may be obtained
from the Taxation Dept., Sydney. (3) Unemployment
relief tax is assessed separately from Federal and
State income tax. (4) A taxpayer may arrange to
pay tax by instalments over a limited period if not
in a position to meet the full amount by the due
date... A. B.: Write Dept, of Home Affairs, Canberra.
. ...R.C.F.: A. E. Smith and Co., 68 Hunter-street,
Sydney, issue a pamphlet on the care and filling up
of violins... .M.J.: Seymour Hicks was born at St.
Helier’s, Jersey, and is 60. He toured Australia in
1924.. .'.E.V.R.; Call on the tutor in German at Adel-
aide Uni., who may be-able to suggest a course of
study... .N.E.W.: (1) Every member of a family
may use its crest. (2) Apply to the College of
Heralds, London C.L.: (1) It is binding on both
parties. (2) In the absence of definite provision
the law requires reasonable notice. (3) A yearly-
tenant on an annual rental cannot terminate his
tenancy, unless by consent, without giving six
months’ notice ending at the time of year when
the tenancy began. This, however, is rarely enforced if
reasonable notice be given.... (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE - CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Visiting Corolla station in
A orth Queensland at the invitation of
Tom Donaldson, father of her school
friend Peggy, Margaret Kennedy falls
under the spell of Ken Craig's roman-
lie personality. She nurses him when
he is- badly injured, and rejects a
somewhat offhand proposal. Station
life is suddenly interrupted by the
arrival of Mr. Borthwick, sent up by
the city managers on a visit of inspec-
tion. Borthwick, who has a sinister
understanding with the station book-
keeper, Heath, offers Ken a big sum
for hit) black horse Eaglehawk, which
had been given to him by a mysteri-
ous bush character, Larry Nolan. Ken
refuses to part with the horse, and
shortly after is doped in a hotel, and
is as «, drunk by Margaret.
The horses are stolen, but Larry
tracks and recovers them. Ken re-
ceives a letter of apology from Mar-
garet, the illness of whose father has
caused her to leave the station. Borth-
wick sacks Donaldson, and puts Heath
in charge, changes which soon lead to
Ken and others leaving. Ken returna
Eaglehawk to Larry's care, and after
some droving goes to Sydney, to learn
that a war has been raging in Europe
for a month. He also meets Margaret
again, and learns that, she had made
an unfortunate marriage. He goes
then to England and enlists in the
King's Colonials, a cavalry regiment
which is soon after sent to France as
infantry.
CHAPTER XX ( Continued ).
SUMMER of 1915 found the King’s Col-
onials in front of Messines—a “cushy”
part, ol the line. The German trenches
were four hundred yards away, across a
swampy stream. They found that if they
didn’t, worry Fritz, Fritz left them alone
except for an occasional strafe, so life re-
solved itself chiefly into working parties—
deepening and draining trenches, building-
dug-outs and erecting barbed wire.
Neuve Eglise, where were their rest
billets, still stood, hardly touched by shell-
fire. Further back, the town of Bailleul
stood for all the delights—food, wine and
women. Everyone decided it wasn’t such a
bad war, after all.
C aptain King tilted back his chair and
gazed shrewdly at the sergeant standing
stiffly in front of him. “Sit down, Sergeant !
I sent for 3*oll about those eight names you
sent in.”
“Any objection to them, sir?”
“I made it quite clear that for this
bombing course I wanted you to pick men
you could absoluteh* rely on?”
“Yes, sir!”
“And you’re quite satisfied with these?”
Captain King picked up a sheet of paper.
As he scanned the list of names his eyes
twinkled.
I just wanted to make sure you under-
stood that I had not asked you to recruit
for a pirate crew.”
Sgt. Jackson’s close-cropped moustache
twitched slightly.
I’ll admit they’re a tough crowd, sir.
Most, of them gave us a bit of trouble in
England. However, things are different
over here, and I’ll take a chance with that
bunch.”
Captain King nodded quietly, his eyes
bent on the paper to hide the gleam they
held.
“Fairly cosmopolitan crew! Umm. Cow'-
ley that’s the big, hulking giant in No. 1
J roop.”
Yes, sir! He looks slow—lumberman.
But I would just hate to mix it with him!”
“Russell—why bring America into the
war?”
“He’s an artist with a rifle, sir!”
"Yes, yes! So he is! Alvarez—no beauty-
chorus this, Sergeant! That’s the chap that
did the dirty work at Givenchy with his
knife.”
“Yes, sir. He wears it in a sheath at
the back of his neck now—veiy handy
place when you’re lying on your belly in
the mud.”:
“Umm—Craig. The Heavenly Twins!
Ever notice that chap’s index finger, Ser-
geant?”
“If I could hope to use a gun like him
they could chop any one of m3' fingers off
to-day, sir.”
“That so? Walker. Another Austra-
lian! Well, in the light of your past selec-
tion I understand him. But keep him
sober while he’s pottering about with bombs
or we’ll have to collect your pirate crew
in ration bags. Who’s this? Hungerford?
That inoffensive little chap in 2 Troop!
What has he done to deserve this?”
“He’s sudden death with his hands, sir.
When that counter-attack got into our
trench at Festubert, at least two Germans
died without a mark to show how. I’m
very civil to these quiet chaps from Singa-
pore way.”
“Have you broken the news to them
yet?”
“Yes, sir.”
“All quite willing?”
“Quite, sir. I told them that as bombers
they would probably be excused all fatigues,
and they jumped at it.”
“The devil you did!” Captain King
exploded, then burst into a hearty laugh.
“Well, go ahead. If any of you survive
this course—we’ll see. And, Sergeant, if
your buccaneers ever start a free fight
among themselves let me know at once—l
wouldn’t miss it for worlds.”
The night of September 25 was a busy
one. For days the continuous rumble of
a heavy bombardment had rolled up from
the south. Some speculated on an offensive
below Ploegstreet Wood. The latrine
rumors reported the beginning of the Big
Push—“and we’ll all be home for Christ-
mas!”
Under cover of the dark the troops dug
a narrow shelter trench out beyond the
front line, nearer the Germans. The Sui-
cide Club did no digging. They were to
earn their sobriquet that da"y. Stumbling
down communication trenches over slip-
pery duckboards, carrying heavy boxes of
anew sort of bomb, they found support
and reserve trenches devoid of troops, and
formed their own conclusions.
By morning stand-to, when the east paled
with the herald of dawn, they knew the
meaning of the double rum ration. The
front line was to be held by the bombers
till the supply of smoke bombs had been
exhausted; then they were to make for the
new line out in front—if possible.
No one knew exactly what was happen-
ing—they would find out when they got
the newspapers in a couple of days. Their
immediate job was to simulate a general
attack to prevent enemy divisions being
withdrawn to the real point of battle.
The familiar trench seemed unreal, de-
serted. Ken divided his bombs between
the number of bays for which he was re-
sponsible. Alvarez was far along on the
right. Somewhere on his left was Van der
Walt. It seemed an eternity waiting on
that whistle. A gentle breeze blew straight
across to the German line. Fritz would
be rushing for his gas mask in a minute.
The whistle shrilled, and with it Ken
ignited his first bomb and pushed it over
the parapet—a dense cloud of white smoke
rolled forth as the second followed it. At
the same instant pandemonium broke loose.
It seemed as if every gun on the front had
opened fire at the same second. The air
overhead was alive with the whistling, hum-
ming passage of shells of every calibre. As
he rushed to another bay he could see the
German trenches spouting with explosions.
Colored rockets flared their SOS high into
the air.
Then came retribution!
The enemy artillery opened up—not as
our guns, in one simultaneous burst, but
battery by battery. As he left one bay
to dash to another a 5.9 burst on the para-
pet. Half-buried and deafened, he strug-
gled free and dived at his bombs. The air
was livid with the flash of bursting shells;
the earth trembled and vibrated ceaselessly
with the explosions. Shrapnel burst over-
head in a coal-black cloud with a shatter-
ing crash, spraying wholesale death.
Two more bombs to go! Feverishly he
plucked at the nearest. The world rocked
beneath him. In a flash it seemed as if
Hell had opened before his eyes. A giant
hand plucked him and slammed him against
the sandbags. Then everything went black.
chaptfrTxxi.
The train slowed into the dim railway
station with a hiss of brakes. An ancient
porter intoned “Kilmar-r-rnock,” and the
solitary occupant of the third-class com-
partment gathered his haversack and mili-
tary overcoat, and swung stiffly to the plat-
form. Only a few people left the train,
and all seemed to be interested in their own
affairs. He followed to the only visible
exit and wandered down a short, quiet street.
On the corner stood a stolid policeman, to
all appearances sunk in deep repose, but at
the second request he came to life and
stolidly surveyed the tall, khaki figure.
“Mister Cameron—the soleecitor? Aye,
man, weel Ah ken him. Ye’ll no be his son
frae the war, will ye? Naw? Ah, weel, ye
maun follow the tramline doon by the
pa.r-rk.” Then followed a string of direc-
tions which the recipient hoped he would
remember.
He found the street, a quiet thoroughfare
with large brown-stone houses, some with
neat gardens showing behind the iron rail-
ings, others secluded from the public gaze
by privet hedges and tall trees dressed in
the warm tints of late autumn. At the gate
of such a house he paused and verified the
number with the address in the well-worn
pocket-book. Still he hesitated, as if chary
of entering.
He had decided to spend his leave in Scot-
land, but a few days in Glasgow sickened
him of the city with its smoke-laden atmo-
sphere and its continuous noise. The s : ght
of the name “Kilmarnock” had brought
sudden remembrance. A search through the
pocket-book. Yes, that was the place. He
had promised Scotty to look up his people,
so he might as well do it now.
He pushed open the iron gate and fol-
lowed the red, gravelled path to the door
of the house. Silence followed his ring, and
he was about to turn away when he heard
a sound of someone descending a staircase
several steps at* a time. The door swung
open and the flushed face of a girl appeared
under a head of dark auburn hair.
“Is Mr. Cameron at home?”
“He’s not in just now, but he’ll be back
in an hour. Did you want to see him per-
sonally?”
The man in khaki surveyed the girl as
she was speaking. She was of medium
height—quite a decent figure, he thought.
Wonderful complexion, just a few freckles
across the nose. And her hair—he wasn’t
keen on red hair, but this was different.
Who could it be? Not a maid ! Some rela-
tion of the Camerons perhaps.
“Well, I did. But it isn’t very important.”
He turned slowly from the door, his gaze
still on the girl. “I’ll look in later.”
The girl’s eyes followed him with a
puzzled, intent look. “I say!”
The man halted.
“Excuse me, but are you English?”
A corner of the firm mouth tilted to the
shadow of a grin. “Well, not exactly. Aus-
tralian!”
The girl reached his side in one bound,
the v.olet eyes wide, gleaming with sup-
pressed excitement.
“Are you—Ken?”
“That’s my name,” he replied slowly, then
stepped back in alarm at the look that sud-
denly illuminated the girl’s beautiful face.
“O-oh! And I nearly let you go!”
She thrust out both hands impulsively,
and the warm color flooded her face.
“I—we—thought you were never coming
to see us. I’m Ailsa—lan’s sister. Do come
in and I'll get mother. She’ll be awfully
pleased to see you.”
The man found his hands seized in a
firm, soft grasp that drew him irresistibly
into the hall, relieved him of the haversack
and overcoat, then propelled him, dumbly
bewildered, into a dim, high-ceiled room.
The girl was tingling with excitement, and
the unexpected warmth of his welcome ren-
dered the man speechless. He had expected
to find Scotty’s parents a quiet old couple.
But a sister!—why on earth had he not
remembered?
He sank into a deep Chesterfield, feeling
out of place in his rough uniform and
army boots, while the girl talked in excited
snatches.
“We’ve been hoping you would come—•
ever since lan wrote and told us you had
come to England. Then when nothing hap-
pened, and we never heard from you, and
lan didn’t know where you were, I—we
thought anything might have happened.
Have 3*oll been in France long?”
“Five months!”
“And—are you just on leave? When do
you have to go back?”
“I’m not sure, I have a board in three
weeks and I hope to get back then.”
“A board! Have you been wounded?”
The girl’s voice trembled.
“I got a bit of a knock the time of the
Loos affair, but I’m all right again.”
“Oh, lam sorry! And to think we knew
nothing about it! Why didn’t you write
us?”
The man moved uncomfortably. “Well—
er—as a matter of fact I only came across
your address yesterday—in Glasgow—so I
thought, seeing I had promised Scotty, I
would look in and see you.”
The girl looked blankly at him. “But
surely Are some of your relations ex-
pecting you?”
“No—l have no relations over here at
all!”
“Then where are you going?”
“Don’t quite know yet. I just go to any
place I like the sound of!”
“Do you mean you’re just roaming round
—with no fixed programme?”
The man nodded. The girl had risen
and stood defiantly in front of him.
“And you’ve been staying in uncomfort-
able hotels, with no friends!”
“Any hotel looks good after—the other
side!”
“Look here! We’ve been dying to see
you for ages, and now you look in as if
you were a complete stranger and talk of
going on before you have properly arrived.”
“But I am a stranger!”
“You’re nothing of the kind! If you only
realised what lan thinks of you—why, I
feel as if I ha.d known you for years!” A
pleading note crept into her voice. “Ken,
don’t go! Unless you really want to. If
you’ll only look on this as your home—as
your headquarters—for as long as you like
—to come and go as you like—you have no
idea how happy it will make us!”
The man felt dreadfully uneasy. He had
come to pay a short call on an old couple
he had never seen, and here was a beauti-
ful girl begging him to stay. What excuses
could he make? The soft, earnest voice
was speaking again.
“I don’t want you to think that we’re
trying to tie you down. But we’ve heard
so much about you—and we owe you so
much—that—that—oh, do stay! If you
feel you want to go at any time, just tell
me—as a pal. I’ll understand. Is it a
bargain?” She held a hand towards him.
He hesitated a moment, then took it awk-
wardly.
“I didn’t expect this, Miss Cameron. And
I hate the idea of thrusting myself on you.
But if you’ll put up with me for a day or
two, I’ll be very grateful. But I warn you
I’m pretty rotten company.”
The firm grip tightened, and a glad, warm
look swept over him.
“Good I Now don’t let me hear any
more of that. And if you call me ‘Miss
Cameron’ again—l’ll brain you! I haven’t
called you ‘Mr. Craig,’ and I’m not going
to! Remember you’re one of the family,
and my name’s Ailsa!”
“Right-oh—Ailsa!”
She threw a beaming smile- “It sounds
different—the way .you say it!” She
flushed suddenly conscious that she still
gripped his hand, and turned abruptly with
a short, nervous laugh. “I’ll call mother!
She’Jl feel about 20 when she knows who’s
here!”
Through the doorway he saw her in pro-
file as the light from some high window
streamed down on the burnished gold of
her hair, lighting the delicate lines of tilted
chin and perfect throat-
“ Mother! Gentleman to see you!”
A distant voice replied. “Just a minute.
Who is it, Ailsa?”
“Stranger! He’s in a hurry, so don’t be
long!”
The girl threw* herself in the opposite
corner of the Chesterfield. “Now,” she
laughed mischievously, “watch my aged
parent register surprise!”
Ken rose as a plump, rosy-cheeked woman
paused in the doorway. She saw a tall,
well-built figure in khaki and her heart
contracted for a second. Was it news about
lan? Her glance shifted for a moment to
the mischievous, unabashed grin of her
daughter.
“Ailsa! Have you no manners?”
“Sorry!” The girl rose in mock con-
trition. “My mother, Mr. —er —Craig!”
“How do you do, Mrs. Cameron?”
“Mr. Craig? Surely not Mr. Ken Craig
—from Australia?”
“It’s him, Mother! Look out, Ken!”
He felt awkward looking down at the
pleasant face that struggled to conquer
amazement and emotion, as both hands
gripped his, outstretched in welcome.
“My dear! I’m proud to meet you!
You’ll excuse an old woman, but”
Words failed her and the astonished man
felt a lump rise in his throat as she drew
his head down and kissed him fervently on
the cheek-
“ Mother! I am surprised! Wait till I
tell dad you kissed a strange man!”
“Don’t mind her, Mr. Craig!”
“Oh, what a chance I missed I Ken,
couldn’t you arrive again?”
“Ailsa!” Mrs. Cameron strove hard to
make her voice sound severe, but failed
smilingly.
“Is Mr. Craig’s room ready for him?”
“Heavens—no! But are you two going
to talk, because I’m not going to miss
anything!”
“Mrs. Cameron, your daughter has refused
to call me Mr. Craig, and I wish you would,
too!”
“Of course, Ken! Come and we’ll show
you round.”
Presently he found himself in a high, com-
fortable room. A snowy bed occupied the
centre of the floor, and a light, flower-
scented breeze stirred the curtains at the
open window. The man gripped the back
of a chair till his knuckles showed white,
and gazed unseeingly over the well-kept
garden below; as he fought the emotion
awakened within him. He swung angrily
away from the window. “Damn it, I’m
getting soft!”
Mr. Cameron arrived before dinner—a
genial, courteous Scotchman, whose quiet
manner belied the almost aggressive thatch
of reddish hair. The warmth of his wel-
come left no doubts as to its sincerity, and
Ken liked this older counterpart of Scotty
from the start.
He was kept busy answering questions,
and in time got all the news of the wander-
ing son of the family. lan was in the
Light Horse. He had been slightly wounded
in the Landing, but was back again on
Gallipoli. Scotty’s letters were produced
and read, and a passage from one letter
awoke memories of a past, rendered in-
credibly remote by the mad months of
war, where a day holds the experiences and
emotions of a lifetime:
“I wonder if Ken has ever been to see
you f / can’t write to him as I don’t know
his address, but if you see him tell him a
lot of the old mob are here. Dusty Rhodes
is in this brigade—the same old dry stick
-—and he almost looked pleased when I ran
into him the other day. I haven’t seen
Tom Sanderson, but his fame as a sniper
is all over the Peninsula. Jim Armstrong
is a lieutenant now. Last time I saw him
he was just as keen as me to find Ken’s
whereabouts. He said his wife (she was
Miss Donaldson ) had sent him some im-
portant news for Ken, but he didn’t say
what it was.”
Ailsa’s eyes seldom left the stolid, tanned
features, and she felt a twinge of some-
thing like jealousy as she noticed the
change of expression. His eyes had a far-
away look. The ghosts of the past had
taken hold of him. Then, with a quick,


EMBASSY FOOTWEAR FOR TOWN AND COUNTRY
&f>e
Famous
GUINEA
SHOE
n
n
■
Si
Here’s an Embassy Shoe built to give you more for your money
—more than usual service and satisfaction. Buying this shoe
is a pleasant way to economise. There's longer hte in every pair!
Made on the latest last, with a smart square toe in
Tan Calf. Easily the best value in Queensland to-day.
All sizes. Black Calf also. Price, per pair
211-
U/je
“STOCKYARD
A Riding Emperor in best-
quality Black Calf. Made on
a comfortable last that has
never been successfully copied.
Reinforced elastic sides, welted
soles. Now substantially re-
duced in price. Order to-
day.
Was 35/- NOW 27/6
In sizes 5, s£, 6, 6£, 8, 9 and II
only.
Uf>e
HOMESTEAD"
A Tan Calf Emperor Riding
Boot that will give perfect
comfort and long wear. Em-
bassy last, light standard
screwed soles, flat or Cuban
heels, narrow waist to fit
snugly over instep. Medium
and round toes. Full sizes;
half sizes in medium toes only.
Was 26,6 NOW 24,9
/V(
M.y
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH AND TOWNSVILLE
impatient snap of the jaw he looked up
and met the girl’s gaze with a quiet smile.
“Sorry! I had sort of forgotten the boys!
The world—life—is all so different now
that it’s hard to realise these old days
existed.”
The car sped through the beautiful Ayr-
shire countryside draped in sere, autumn-
tinted glory, all too quickly for the long
Australian sharing the back seat with Ailsa.
From the restless figure crouched over
the wheel emanated an unbroken disserta-
tion, in a broad, Scotch accent, on the
country they were traversing. The land-
scape was rich in landmarks of historical
interest, and Adam McCrae, steeped in the
lore of his native district, was in his favorite
role. Just too old for the army, he devoted
his restless energy with his car and his own
services to the furtherance of affairs on the
Home Front.
A special constable, a pillar of the Bed
Cross, the shrewd, bushy eyebrows were to
be found in practically everjy war-time
organisation in his native town.
Mrs. McCrae, sitting stiffly erect beside
him, interjected an occasional dry remark.
She was an angular, sharp-faced woman,
who vainly tried to hide a warm heart
under a cloak of grim sarcasm. The result-
ant fusion gained her a well-merited repu-
tation for dry, pointed humor, of the brand
the Scotch term “pawky.”
Ailsa was effervescent with sheer happi-
ness. She chattered gaily on, sometimes to
the driver—when an opportune lull pre-
sented itself—sometimes to the straight
back of Mrs. McCrae, and always to the
man at her side.
Ken felt slightly bewildered with it all.
The crisp air of late autumn, laden with
the intoxicating scents of harvest, mingled
with the clean, resinous smell of giant firs.
A spirit of contentment lay over the rich,
undulating fields,* and a fleeting thought of
the shambles a few hundred miles away left
the impression that he was a sojourner in
two different worlds—of sharp contrasts.
He recalled the sensations stirred in him at
an orchestral concert in London some weeks
earlier. His awakened love of good music
had taken him there and held him spell-
bound throughout a lengthy symphony. It
was too big to comprehend. There was too
much beauty for his full appreciation. He
Ranted it repeated over and over again till
its full beauty and delicacy could be stored
up for future retrospect.
So it was with this countryside. A car
had its advantages—comfort and speed were
all right in a way—but Ken felt he wanted
to do this country on a horse and in his
own time. At thirty miles an hour the
result was an unsatisfying jumble of be-
ginnings. Before he could grasp one thing
properly another had succeeded it, with
still another in its wake,
He spoke little; his eyes roamed the
ever-changing kaleidoscope to right and left.
Encountering their quiet, genuine pleasure
Me girl smiled happily—not merely with the
e y®f> the features, but a warm, thrilling
e Mat seemed to well up from every
U „ T ~ j , . , n » ht
.. *° «»'er the Dundonald hills Mr
£L°P Z, T SSL worth h TVe
best, but the scenery s worth it. Man, 1 ve
bee n G wer this road for the last 50 year, an’
e time i like it better. I often wish I
j be in the shoes of a man like voufse lf,
Mr Crai to bR seei it for the firgt t ; me .
It makeg
me feel like Walter Scott when
be ga - d .
' ~ ~T , . .
Breathes there a man with soul so dead
never to himself f hath , sm fr »
m V '
That s no what I heard you say that
ram y m S ht y° u S ot a puncture hereabouts!
Footed the cynical voice ot Mrs.
*V. lae ‘ ... , , , . , , ; ,
, Al,sa > choking back her laughter took up
Me swinging rhythm in a voice that held
a °* enthusiasm:
“ ‘Whose heart! has ne’er within him
burned,
As home his footsteps he hath turned
From wandering on a foreign strand.’
Don’t you love it?”
Ken nodded quietly. “Funny how we
apply it differently! I learnt that at school;
but when it came back to me years later,
it was always in connection with some bit
of Me Bush, as unlike this”—his hand
swept the lush, green fields dotted with
white-walled, thatched farmhouses and
cottages—“as anything you could imagine.”
The car drew to a standstill after a steep
climb, and Ailsa bent forward excitedly,
“Look, Ken, the sea!” Even Cortez,
glimpsing the Pacific, put no more feeling
in his tones.
Beneath them stretched a wooded hill-
side decked in rich tones of gold shading
through buff to dignified bronze, and ming-
ling with the deep, mystic green of the
firs. Between the tree-tops came distant
glimpses of hilly pastures dotted with sheep,
and far down below, where the country
flattened out between the foothills and the
sea, was a chessboard of absurd-looking
little fields and farms. A long curving sweep
of coastline lay before them,
“That smoke doon there is Irvine, and
the toon at yer feet, runnin’ oot to a point,
is Troon, where we’re bound. Further doon
in the bay is Ayr—ye’re in the Burns coun-
try, my lad! A fine wee place is Ayr,
famous for its honest men and bonjue
lassies! ”
“And as Johnny Guthrie says, the honest
men are a’ deid, and the bonnie lassies a’
mairrit!” It was Mrs. McCrae again.
“Aye, maybe!” continued her better half
resignedly, waving an eloquent hand to the
south. “Doon below Ayr are the Carrick
Hills—as full o’ history as an egg is full
o’ meat. There’s something aboot that
countryside that makes ye feel prood ye’re
a Scotchman!”
“Mr. Craig can just imagine it!” The
lady’s tone was pungent with sarcasm.
Across the grey, sunlit waters of the Firth
of Clyde ran a long, hazy promontory.
“The Mull o’ Kintyre,” pointed Mr. Mc-
Crae. “Ye’re gettin’ near the Hielan’s
there. That peak ye can just see is Goat-
fell—that’s in Arran.”
“What’s the cone-shaped island straight
out in front?” asked Ken.
“Ailsa Craig!”
“Who?”
“Ailsa Craig!” Mr. McCrae broke into
an amused chuckle. Twisting i-ound, his
keen eyes brought a flush to the girl’s
cheeks. “Ony relation?”
“Not that I know of!” smiled Ken. “But
I like the sound of it!”
The car moved off slowly down the hill.
The girl seemed unusually silent. Ken’s
face was enigmatic, but in his subconscious
mind a voice was repeating “Ailsa Craig!
Ailsa Craig! I like the sound of it!”
They had tea in Troon with friends of the
McCraes —a pair of old maids whose house
was so spotlessly clean that Ken felt un-
comfortable. The flustered ladies fussed
around and got in one another’s way, some-
how managing to cany on a disjointed con-
versation the while. They had a nephew
in Australia, they informed Ken—he lived
in Sydney—and they seemed quite dis-
appointed that Ken had never met him.
In the evening Ailsa and Ken wandered
along the wide esplanade. Troon was full
of men in khaki—and the female popula-
tion appeared only too anxious to amelio-
rate their existence.
“How about walking along the sand?”
Ken proposed.
“Come on then!” the girl laughed back.
“Don’t you ever salute an officer?”
“Ye-es, sometimes! Our own are a decent
crowd, but I came out to enjoy myself, not
to wag my arm at every boy in a Sam
Browne! Great beach, this!”
“Yes. isn’t it! Let’s get out of this deep
sand, though.”
The ebbing tide had left a wide stretch
of firm, ribbed, yellow sand in its wake.
They halted side by side, gazing seawards
where the setting sun threw a wide line of
golden light across the grey waters. Out-
lined against the horizon, in the direct
path of the sun, stood a low, cone-shaped
island—like some long-extinct volcano
shouldering out of the sea. It appeared to
the man like a golden highway leading-
straight and wide to its objective—Ailsa
Craig!
The same thought was forming with a
delicious thrill in the mind of the girl.
The man looked down at her with a new
expression on his face. The level shafts of
sunlight burnished the dull gold of her un-
covered hair, lighting the shining eyes, and
delicate parted lips. The girl, turning sud-
denly, met his gaze; her flushed cheeks were
qirckly averted, and they slowly wan-
dered on.
The long twilight was fading into night
before they started on the return journey.
Beyond the patch of roadway illumined by
the headlights the country appeared a vague
rising and falling of hazy, outlined hills.
Mr. and Mrs. McCrae conversed in low-
tones. Ailsa drew a rug over her knees
and threw half over Ken’s long legs.
“Hasn’t it been a glorious day?” Her
voice was low and vibrant. She glanced
up at the dim profile of the man, puffing
quietly at his pipe. “I feel awfully tired.
Mind if I have a little sleep?” she queried.
“Go ahead!” he smiled back. “Pipe
worrying vou?”
“No—I love it!”
She snuggled under the rug with a little
sigh of content. Ken smoked on, his eyes
on the white roadway. The car swung
round a corner and slumped the occupants
of the back seat into a corner. Ken sud-
denly became conscious of a head leaning
against his shoulder. They turned sharply
to the right and involuntarily he threw out
an arm to grasp the side of the car. The
girl, half awake, balanced unsteadily. As
she lay back, her head thrilled to the touch
of the tense arm under the rough khaki.
Contentedly she nestled against the rigid
body of the man, and little by little the
arm slipped protectingly round her.
A grim, set face, with jaws clamped
tightly on a pipe long since dead, stared
into the darkness over the girl’s head, fight-
ing hard to quell the riot within him, while
the wind, laughing at the futility of it,
whipped enchanting strands of hair across
his face and neck. The soft, warm, yield-
ing form pressing against him sent a stream
of liquid fire surging through his veins
that made him tingle to the finger-tips.
(To be continued next week.)


[ stockr.o im rive v
IB m 160 H *■
•mi Hi &1I1 rvilNOtRH
*u hoKt.yStKOKf
t01«9 IH.HCTION 6*
505CM fUtl I'UWJ’N I
at fUtiMPi uiwici™*
i phikmim oowmom i
tot:, nivinir ow» —
I rMMOili* vai WOW
lay
a
0
cost Of RUNNING ON
FULL uOAD
ONE FARTHING
PeR MORSE POWER
PER HOUR
ALL SPARE PARTS”
ALWAYS AVAIIABIC
hGnoreos
IN USE
ALL OVER
THE WORLD
• AND
'NOUSTRIAI
MAOE 8'
_ _ HIAVfX DUTY. FOUR CYCLE
DIESEL ENGINES
nvincible motors limited Sydney Australia .
> CHICAGO lU-0-S.A.
ESTABLISHED
Invincible Marine and Industrial Engines are stocked
in 20 sizes, from 21 h.p. to 160 h.p. Benzine —
Kerosene and Crude Oil. All Spare Parts always
locally Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,- LIMITED,
53 North George Street, Sydney, Australia.
And at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
V*
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “ Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons
73-75 Paterson
•Launceston
Pty., Ltd.,
Street,'
Mr. M. S. A llan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
A
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
JA>r
COUCHS
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT
MFPIUM Tg WOMEN.
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIifiE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
August racing has already made it evident
that the three-year-olds are a good lot and
are going to win heaps of handicaps tnis
year, especially at distances of a mile aud
upwards. The older generation of sprinters
will prove no mean opponents, but tne form
which obliges the handicappers to impose
welterweights on old stagers like First Acre
and Don .noon in ten- to twelve-furlong races
is so palpably poor as to give three-year-
olds great opportunities. Cook, the Rand-
wick trainer (whose namesake, the leading
jockey, has been disqualified for 12 months
over his riding in a wretched Jumpers’ Flat
at Gosford), saddled up two useful
ones at Rosehill on Saturday and landed
the Granville Stakes with Le Legion (10 to
1), a chestnut gelding by Legionnaire—La
Bends,.who came away from a big and better-
than-average Granville Stakes field over the
last bit of nine furlongs, run in lmin. 56scc.
Le Legion is among the six-stoners in the
four most important spring handicaps.
Cook's other three-year-old is Dilemma,
by Legionnaire—Bewilder. He was spiritedly
backed (to fours) for the first division of
the Dundas Handicap. So was Movie Star,
one of A. D. Webster’s three-year-olds from
Maoriland, and Movie Star wound up joint
favorite, at threes, with Sir Chrystopher,
winner of the last Doncaster and conqueror
of the late Mollison at w.f.a., Sir Duninald
being at fours and Love Song at eights.
Dilemma and Movie Star ran capital races,
but they were rather unfavorably handi-
Gert! "Just a minute while i lock
THE CAR UP."
Bert : "Why lock it up?*
GERT'/SOMEOME MIGHT PINCH \t"
OERT You RE AvN
Vou AR6 ''
cupped compared with some of the older
horses, notably Cathmar, who won after a
rousing—and bumping—finish with Love
.Song (whose party protested unavailingly)
and Sir Duninald, Dilemma being fourth.
As a three-year-old Cathmar was a sue-
cess in the spring and a failure in the
autumn; and it was the same last year.
After his brilliant success in the Epsom
and his excellent showings in other races at
that meeting he was naturally expected to
do well in the Doncaster, with only 121 b.
more than his Epsom weight, but in all his
autumn races he ran wretchedly. He looked
like a show-ring horse and sweated like a pig.
Very different was his appearance on Satur-
day. It. was thought that lie hadn’t done
nearly enough work, and his price drifted
to twenties; but he came home like the good
horse he is when there is nothing the matter
with him, and at Bst. 71b., only 91b. more
than he had last year, he will unquestionably
have to be reckoned with in the Epsom.
So will Love Song, whose Rosehill perform-
auees were most impressive, and who, com-
i ng down from Bst. 91b. to Sst, lib., will meet
t’athmar on 111 b. better terms. He might
have beaten Jack King’s horse if the latter
and Sir Duninald had left him a bit more
room for his last run; all the same, he looks
nearly at the top of his condition, whereas
Cathmar can be improved.
..••••
Chide is as puzzling in his way as Cath-
mar. Last in the w.f.a. race that Waterline
won at Rosehill in the autumn, he came out
at Warwick Farm on the following Saturday
and vanquished Waterline, Veilmond and
Tregilla on much the same terms, except that
1 life journey was a furlong furtner. Backed
for the Carlingford Mile at Rosehill on
Saturday week as if he were a certainty, he
galloped like *a third-rater. Again seven days
made a vast difference, for in the second
division of the Dundas Handicap, after a
rather slow start, he produced a dashing run
which carried him past Havaspot and King
Prow after Havaspot had seemed certain to
carry off the honors. Perhaps the change of
jockeys made a difference—certainly Jimmy
Munro rode him with great vigor; anyway,
llie rapid improvement was obviously antici-
pated in some quarters, for Trautwein’s
horse shared favoritism, at 7 to 2, with ttoyal
Tune and King Crow, Ilavaspot being at
fives. Each division was run in lmin. 27sec.
Veilmond is a great pet in Sydney, and
there was a prolonged burst of handclapping
when McCarten rode him back to weigh in
after his victory in the first division of the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap with
lOst. up. It was certainly a taking perform-
ance, for the Metropolitan favorite was last
when the field of 14 singled out, and third-
last with four furlongs to go. From that
point he galloped strongly on the outside,
where he likes to be, aud, improving his posi-
tion rapidly from the home turn, he passed
Gold Digger (12 to 1), who held him for a
few strides, and went on to win by a length,
Omagh, the second favorite (Veilmond was,
of course, first choice, at evens), being three
lengths behind Gold Digger. The truth is
that Moss’s horse had nothing much to beat
—Trenette, the only four-year-old in the
field with any form to speak of, was un-
backed—but he did a not very difficult job
well.
Chatham had stronger opposition in the
second division. All eyes were on this son
of Windbag and Myosotis as he came out
to do his preliminary, and the verdict was
that he was a real Windbag, only better-
looking. Sturdy Windbag was not a hand-
some bay; Chatham is. Though it was only
his second race, and his first as a three-
year-old, the bookmakers refused to lay more
than 3 to 1. and shortened the price to 5 to
2, though big money came for Calendo (a
close second to Veilmond, at a difference of
121 b., in a race at Rosehill before Easter),
Salvador and Cypress. Reynolds got Chatham
away well, and was content to let him lie
in behind the leaders until they turned for
home. As soon as the jockey urged him for-
ward the colt hounded to the front, and,
giving nothing else a chance over the last
furlong, he ended up three lengths ahead of
the second horse. Weotara, who was third
in Phar Lap’s Chelmsford Stakes, Calendo
being another half-length away and Salvador
—fancied for the Metropolitan—fourth. The
time was lmin. 28sec., the same as Veilmond
put: up, but Veilmond was fully extended,
whereas Chatham won on the bit; the farther
they went the better he liked it. This Page
formed a high opinion of Windbag’s son the
first time it saw him, and tipped him for
the Melbourne Cup when the weights came
out. A. E. Blair, the owner, and veteran
Ike Foulsham, the trainer, are fortunate in
having so worthy a Derby-and-Cup candidate,
......
The other races were not important,
Warneton (6 to 1), who was left out of the
Metrop. and the Cups, accounted for a
mediocre lot in the August Handicap, m
which Don Moon was third once more; and
Talkie (7 to 2) placed the Parramatta Mile
to the credit of the Kelso stable Talkie is
m the Metrop. with 7st. lib. but as Black
Douglas, a second-rater, gave. him 161 b. and
ran him to half a neck, it was not much of
a Metrop. trial,
" . "
, The Warwick Farm meeting next Satur-
day will be a dress rehearsal for the spring
shows at Rand wick. With Ammon Ra,
Chatham and Flying Dave m the Hobart-
yille Stakes, Veilmond. Chide and Cathmar
m the w.f.a. race, Sir Chrystopher, TregiUa
and other Epsom and Metrop. horses in
the handicaps (Tregillm like Cathmar, is
expected to show this spring that his autumn
form was all wrong), the racing should
be uncommonly interesting. Fancies:—
Hobartville Stakes : Chatham ; next, Ammon
Ra.
Campbelltown Handicap: Holdfast; next,
Tom Pinch.
"Warwick Farm Stakes: Chide ; next, Veil-
mond.
Spring Handicap: John Buchan; next,
Tregilla.
Cabramatta Handicap: Spearman ; next,
Magnetic.
* * * *
Owing to rain, Saturday was a blank day
in Melbourne so far as racing is concerned.
The Williamstown club postponed its meet-
ing, at which Phar Lap was to have tried
conclusions with Waterline, Wise Force,
Parkwood and Glare at weight-for-age. From
the climatic standpoint far worse week-end
weather has been experienced in the Vic.
metropolis, and it is a pity that the fixture
was not gone on with, as at intervals during
the afternoon the sky was almost clear of
clouds. Jim Pike arrived from Sydney to ride
fhar Lap, and had his journey for nothing,
while at the same time missing mounts at
Rosehill.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday :
Compensation Handicap: King Mart:
next. Pure Blend.
August Handicap : Graewin ; next, Amanthus.
* w * *
“Hotlmm” : Victoria had its first experience
of modern tote betting at Moonee Valley,
where the Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt
Club held one of the most successful meet-
ings it has had for years. The s.o. machine
kicked off well, paying £l3 14s. for ss. on
the winner of the first race, or £53 16s. to
£l, while there were two other dividends at
the rate of 50 to 1 and over during the day.
Among the “place’’ divs. were £7 7s.
and £4 7s. 6d. —also for ss. There
are five Julius machines on this course,
all synchronised, while the new odds indi-
cators showed continuously the state of the
betting on each horse. There is no doubt
about the tote having caught on. in spite
of one or two minor hitches. Women in
particular rushed the new betting device,
for at long last it has made it legal for the
Vic. female of the species to have- an open
flutter, instead of having to punt through
agents as heretofore.
“Thormanby”: One of the greatest thor-
oughbreds that ever carried silk died full
of years and honor in Ireland the other day.
Pretty Polly, owned by Eustace Loder, was
by Gallinule out of Admiration, and was
thus in direct descent from the great St.
Simon. She won 22 races, worth £37,000,
in 24 starts, nine of them as a two-
year-old, at which age she was never beaten.
Her three-year-old victories included the
1000 Guineas, Oaks and Leger, and the
special Coronation Cup, all in 1904. It will
always be a matter for argument whether she
was better than or as good as Bob Sievier’s
Sceptre, two years her senior. Australians
will note that Pretty Polly’s sire, Gallinule,
was one of Phar Lap’s forebears.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Displaying plenty of pluck and pug-
nacity in his first fight at Leichhardt,
colored American Eddie Daniels (10.131)
might have outfought Fred Hannaberry
(10.131) if he had been as versatile as the
youth from South Aus. Daniels was dangerous
at all times, and his wild swings often shook
Hannaberry from head to heels. The young
Australian was too accomplished for the
visitor, however, and won well.
* * * *
Maorilander Billy Sullivan (12.2) worried
Merv Williams (11.8) at the Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night until Williams, who was
making a comeback, landed two weighty
rights on his opponent’s left eye in the ninth.
Further attention in the 10th closed the eye
for the night, and the referee then declared
for Williams.
Footbrawl
Steady rain on water-logged grounds
caused the postponement of Vie. Associa-
tion football on Saturday: the League,
having every Saturday mortgaged, had to
carry on. Games were merely scrambles in
mud, the Melbourne ground being mostly a
sheet of water, while that at St. Kilda,
having been top-dressed, consisted of six
inches of black slime over a subsoil of mud.
Geelong came up to Carlton and returned
disgusted after compiling 2S points to the
Blues’ 39. Collingwood encountered the
Richmond Tigers at Victoria Park and found
those redoubtable animals too swift, especi-
ally in the last quarter, ’Wood losing with
46 to Richmond’s 70. Footscray, on its own
ground, put it all over Fitzroy, winning by
72 to 42. Melbourne, finding its own mud
to its liking, took revenge on Hawthorn for
pushing it out of the finals last year, and
accumulated 93 points to 18. Essendon beat
North Melbourne by 83 to 61, and South
Melbourne outed St. Kilda by 62 to 54. With
but three games to play before the finals
Richmond and Geelong are certainties for
the four: Carltou, Collingwood and Foots*
cray follow, with but one game between
each. As Carlton meets ’Wood next Satur-
day and ’Scray the week following, this
writer wouldn’t risk more than a dole ticket
on any one of them getting in or goiiig out.
The N.S.W. Rugby League staged only
one semi-final on Saturday, reserving the
other for next week. South Sydney met St.
George at the Sports Ground, and after a
dull and uneventful game emerged victors
by 16-5. The high wind had something to
do with the ineffective showing by each side.
“Tricolor’: Young Lynch, the Sydney
Rugby League three-quarter, lias put up a
great points score in the season’s premier-
ship matches, hoisting 120, the best since
Dally Messenger amassed the huge total ol'
270 in 1911. With games against Maoriland
as well as Queensland, and with a Metrop.-
Newcastle match added, Dally had more
chances, but his club games alone brought
him 148 of his total. After Lynch, the best
scores have been contributed by Arthur
Oxford and Frank Burge, who each tallied
115 in 1920. Like Lynch, Burge was a try-
getter as well as a goal-kicker. Oxford, on the
other hand, relied almost entirely on his boot.
* * * *
A westerly gale marred what otherwise
would have been a great game between St.
Joseph’s and St. Ignatius’ Colleges for the
final of the N.S.W. Great Public Schools
premiership. St. Joseph’s never left the
issue in doubt, winning by 22-0. The winners
have a rare lot of forwards, and in Kelaher,
one of the best wing three-quarters seen in
G.P.S. football for years. Beaton at centre
is easily to up to intor-State form, and both
these players should go far. Hickey and
Alegna, the St. Igs.’ half-backs, were the
stars of their side and deserved better sup-
port than they got from the men behind
them. This is the ninth time Joeys have lifted
the premiership, while they have, halved it
twice. They are still headed by The King’s
(12) and Grammar (10).
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union knock-out semi-
finals on Saturday provided two dull games.
At Sydney Cricket Ground North Sydney
prevailed over Ilandwick by 22-14, thus
qualifying for the final. The opposition will
be Manly, which won 22-0 on its own ground
from Western Suburbs.
The opening match of the Australian
Rugby Union side in Maoriland against
Otago at Dunedin ended in a draw, each
side scoring an unconverted try. The ground
was heavy and muddy, conditions suiting the
home forwards admirably, and they made tin-
most of them. In, spite of the wet ball the
Australians succeeded in opening up the
game well as they found their feet, the backs
especially impressing the spectators. Towers,
who scored the Australian try, with Malcolm
and Ross, led the visiting backs, while Blair
was the pick of the forwards. Bush, the
Otago full-back, in Sydney recently with the
M.L. Universities, did great service for Otago.
* Si! * *
“Old Q.” : In spite of criticism the Aus-
tralian Rugby Union authorities are perse-
vering with the green jersey, as the national
color. It was first adopted against the
British team last year, the idea being t"
fall into line with the cricketers. There
seems no good reason for substituting the
green for the N.S.W. light blue in which
so many Australian teams have figured—with
one or two exceptions. In the second match
against Mullineux’s side in Brisbane the
Australians wore Queensland’s maroon with
a large silver “A” and the date, 1899. Later
a blue jersey striped with maroon was tried
and dropped. The Wallabies and Waratale
made their reputations in the light blue. The
color is worn by no other Rugby-playing
nation, whereas both South Africa and
Ireland are wearers of the green.
(Continued on next page.)
The Queensland tennis championship
ended with Jack Crawford taking the singles
from Harry Hopman, while with Moon the
Australian champion came out first in the
doubles. Mrs. Molesworth beat Mrs. West-
macott in the women’s singles, and the
Crawfords added to their laurels by capturing
the mixed doubles from Hopman and Mrs.
Molesworth.


n
111
Ht
I!
m
n
M 0
' : mmm //
V
n ere
comes
the
i-fl m
Man
HE is your
guarantee
of long and
unfailing
service . . .
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. Box7l,Melbourne
You will see him on every
■ Dagenite Battery. Fit a
Dagenite to your own car
and see how it does its
work, thoroughly, unfalter-
ingly, day and night, year
in year out .. . How it
turns darkness into day-
light . . . makes night
driving safe.
DAGENITE
BATTERIES
iliDjl 1 1 1 ! I liili 1 1 1 f 111 r 11.
D 1
Footbrawl
“Yarra”: The war over the disqualifica-
tion of the Carlton footballer Downs on a
charge of foul play (B. 12/8/’3l) is on
the ascending curve. A meeting of protest
by Carlton club members was held at Bruns-
wick Town Hall; though some 1800 shoved
into the meeting-place, there was a big over-
flow outside. According to the speakers,
counsel’s opinion had been obtained and
Carlton was determined that the persecuted
one should have justice. One enthusiast
urged that in future Carlton footballers called
, before the tribunal should be defended by
counsel, they being unused to the forensic
atmosphere. Nobody laughed, and the motion
was carried Avith enthusiasm.
* * :i: *
“Fitzcray”: If play in the first-class
League matches in Melbourne is rough enough
on occasion to satisfy a Coliseum audience in
old Rome, it isn’t a circumstance to the
all-in stuff served out by Wednesday Leaguers.
During a recent game between teams repre-
senting the Press and the AVaterside Workers,
one of the Press team was so brutally
assaulted by an opponent that he had to be
carted unconscious to hospital. The Wednes-
day people have resolved that two police-
men will be retained to attend all matches
in the future.
❖ * •!» *
“Maroon”: One heaves a reminiscent sigh
to read that the Australian Rugby side has
been welcomed in Wellington by the Mayor.
All the same, one wonders what the recep-
tion was like—they have other ideas in
M. Writer was a member of an Australian
team to whom a welcome was extended, not
by the Council of Wellington, but by the
Government of Maoriland itself, for whom
“Timi” Carroll deputised. It was an excep-
tional honor —unique, one fancies —and we
all felt it so. But cold water was thrown
on our transports—literally, for that was
all that, was offered in the why of refresh-
ment. To the visitors, accustomed to the rather
too bounteous hospitality usual on such occa-
sions in their own country, something seemed
lacking.
“Stoush”; The country is supposed to he
dull, but the eucalyptic cloisterdom, as Brun-
ton Stephens called it, has its stirring hours.
One of these struck the other day at Young,
a N.S.W. dorp which wages football war
with a sister burg named Temora. The
issue at stake is the Maher Cup, and as
this frequently changes hands, much good
betting money going with it on each occa-
sion, excitement runs high. It ran a banker
at Young during the latest meeting of the
rivals this season, fights between the
players being augmented by storm troops
from the spectators. Several players were
ordered off upon the police establishing
an appearance of order, and when the tumult
and the shouting had died it was alleged that
Temora had won by 25-10.
“Centre Half”: In spite of the rival
League, the Australian Soccer team for Java
got away without any bombs being thrown.
The League has taken what revenge it can.
Four players under its banner who were
unable to withstand the temptation of the
amateur tour have been disqualified for life.
E. A. Lukeman, manager of the tour and
secretary of the Australian Association, has
been warned off all League grounds for the
term of his natural, and the same dreadful
fate has overtaken George Storey.
Racquet and Bawl
“Toowong”: A sensation of the recent
Queensland tennis championships was the
defeat of Mrs. Crawford by Mrs. Westma-
eott, whom Sydney followers of the game will
remember as the mercurial Miss Hood. Mrs.
Westmacott has usually had the upper hand
of the Australian champion when the pair
have met. The Queenslander beat the
N. player in the Australian and N.S.W.
championships last year and on this latest
occasion. Mrs. Crawford’s solitary victory
was in an inter-State match in Brisbane last
season.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tennis addicts the
world over have been stirred by a happening
at one of the American tournaments. Two
English girls contested the final of the
women’s singles, and when each had won a
set they walked off the court, refusing to play
the deciding set, in spite of expostulations
from the officials. It was a typical example
of the pot-hunting spirit so characteristic of
the game, the offenders openly asserting that
they were desirous of seeing both their names
engraved on the championship cup. Their
troubles about the courtesy due by guests
to their hosts !
“Cash Amateur”: J. O. Anderson has
administered a rude rebuff to the N.S.W.
tennis heads. Invited to play an exhibition
match in Sydney with Jack Crawford, he
refused peremptorily, though he was willing
enough to show in company with Les Baker,
now, like himself, a professional. Anderson
has been shabbily treated by tennis autho-
rities, especially in connection with his
application for reinstatement as an amateur.
No doubt he felt the opportunity for reprisal
too good to let slip.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The star turns of this
year’s Australian golf championships in
Sydney are undoubtedly the two youngsters
in their teens, Jim Ferrier, of N.S.W.. and
the Queensland-Victorian H. I. Williams.
Williams, who beat Ferrier in a friendly
18 holes match at Rose Bay, 1 up, before
the championships opened, is a freak golfer
in more ways than one. When he first
turned his attention to the game some three
years ago he was a right-hander. The only
available clubs were those of his father, who
is a molly-hander. Young Williams made
the best of the situation, and developed so
speedily as a left-handed golfer that he has
wisely kept on as one. Australia has pro-
duced one class left-hander in Len Nettleton,
of Tasmania. He is in the championships,
and if he and the Victorian lad come to-
gether in the course of t lie play their tussle
should command special interest.
* * * 1 *
“R. Bay”; As showing the absurd easiness
of Woollahra’s new municipal course, Barnes,
the local pro., recently went round it in 17
under fours. In addition to being short, it
has fairways as lawn-like as those of Royal
Sydney, and practically no hazards, natural,
made or mental. Mosman is an example of
how difficult a nine-hole course —and not a
very long one at that—can be. It has every
kind of trap along its narrow bush-, rock-
and harbor-bound fairways, and you need to
be in good condition to walk, or rather climb,
it. Woollahra, like the short course at
Royal Sydney, is an easy stroll for an old
lady. If this course isn’t artfully bunkered
in quick order someone will make a fool of it
by breaking 50 for the two rounds.
* * $ *
“No. 1”: Mrs. Sutcliffe, of Elwood (Vic.),
who at 81 still does 9 holes fairly regularly
at Royal Park, must be the oldest woman-
golfer in Australia, and she is probably in
the running for the world-title. She has
been at it since the early ’nineties, when she
had her first lesson at Warracknabeal. Theo-
dore Fink (75) is one of the oldest male
golfers in the Cabbage State, but then he is
only a septuagenarian in years. Such are
the burly little man’s physical strength and
energy that he can out-walk many a man of
50. But neither of these Victorian marvels
can hold a candle to America’s John D.
Rockefeller, who, at 92, can still play 18
holes, involving a walk of five miles, on a
links where the going is easy.
* * * - *
“ Jeames”: It’s a big tribute to the charm
of golf that the Prince of Wales, who lias had
a go at every game on earth in his time,
should prefer it to all others. It isn’t as if he
had the makings of a low-handicap man in
him, either. In spite of tuition from instruc-
tors of the calibre of Walter Hagen and lots
of practice he remains on the 16-mark —
and that is said to flatter him. He drives a
fairly long ball, and plays well through the
fairway, but his short game is bad and he
has an excitable temperament. The Duke of
York, who hovers on the edge of the cham-
pionship class at tennis and cross-country
riding, can give his elder brother half a stroke
and a licking any day, or so one of the pros,
at Sunningdale assured me.
“Old Q.”: So keen are the unattached
golfers of Brisbane to get going on the new
municipal links at Victoria Park that:,
though these are not yet opened for play,
some of the freelances have been making sur-
reptitious use of them. The result is that
several of the greens have been damaged,
apparently by females in high-heeled shoes,
and special action has been taken to sool
interlopers off until all is ready for a flying-
start. The clubhouse has been completed,
but the course will not be opened to the
public until the man in charge considers
it is fit for play.
“Glehelg”: Legit Winser again annexed
the South Aus. amateur championship, beat-
ing W. S. Rymill on the latter’s home links
at Kooyouga, 2 up and 1 to play. Winser,
who is unexcelled in match play, won the
State title as far back as 1923, and has
dropped it in his bag on several occasions
since then. Like Ivo Whitton, of Victoria,
he is in the perennial class.
“Hoylake”; Many folk who have been
prophesying that the British Chancellor of
the Exchequer, Philip Snowden, has been
riding for a fall tip the spill to come
along when the the Minister carries out
his promise of slapping a land tax on golf
courses. Other land held by sporting bodies
will also be affected, but that is nothing as
compared with the areas occupied by the
Royal and Antient obsession. Philip’s
error lies in the too common assumption
that golf is a game confined to the compara-
tively well-to-do. It was a correct one once,
but the huge growth of public links and
“artisan golf” lias fixed the game in the
affections of the common people. If muni-
cipalities which maintain public courses in
Britain have to close them down—as they
must do in many instances if the proposed tax
is imposed—and if the private clubs near the
great manufacturing towns which throw
their courses open at fixed periods to worker
golfers have also to put up the shutters, the
party which Snowden stands for is going to
lose a lot of votes.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: Brisbane has been thrilled
by the Enterprise, as the car designed
and built by Smith and Harkness to tackle
the world’s speed record on Kaitaia Beach,
in Maoriland, has been christened, the big
machine having been exhibited there at the
annual show. The great problem before
Smith and his mate, is the question of wheel-
replacement. The car is fitted with special
jacks to permit rapid changing, but the
wheels are fastened to the hub with so many
bolts and are so heavy—it takes two men
to lift one—as to make replacement almost
impossible in the limited time allowed be-
tween the two runs. Malcolm Campbell
stuck to the same set when he put up his
world’s figures of 245.73 m.p.h. and risked
the possibility of a burst. Smith will pro-
bably do the same, and pin his faith to one
lot of the Australian-built Dunlops with
which the car is fitted.
* ❖ * *
“Whizz”: Leo Cushman, driving at Brook-
lands, cut out the kilometre at 102.28 m.p.h.
and the mile at 100.67 m.p.h., his car being an
Austin Seven. Two days later Viscount
Ridley, in a machine of his own designing,
did the mile at the rate of 100.56 m.p.h.
and the kilometre at 105.42. No details as
to the new car were cabled except that the
engine was of 750-c.c. capacity.
* * £
“Cam Shaft”: “Kick Starter” is on the
optimistic side when he says (B. 19/8/’3l)
that dirt-track motor-cycling in Britain
shows no signs of losing popular favor. Only-
two of the English tracks, Wembley and
Westham, are now paying well, and the
great attractions at these are the international
teams races. Riders, too, with one or two
outstanding exceptions are getting nothing
like the lucre of the boom days of three
years ago. Appearance money then ran from
£4O to £6O; now the usual figure is nearer
£5.
❖ ❖ *
“Sprocket”: The road-racing season for
push-bikers has opened auspiciously. Tim
first of the “classics” will be the Goulburn
to Sydney run in amateur and professional
divisions on September 19. The race was
instituted as far back as 1902; the record for
the professionals stands to the credit of
Hubert Oppennan, who has hoisted the time
of shr. 22min. 30sec., an average speed of 24
m.p.h. The N.S.W. rider Johns has the best
time among the amateurs, cutting out the dis-
tance in 51ir. 46min. 10 l-ssec. in last year’s
run. October 3 will see the famous “Warr-
nambool,” and the Dunlop amateur event
from Colac to Melbourne. Last year these
events drew 621 entrants, 479 of whom
started.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: South Africa’s cricket team
is scheduled to leave Capetown on October 2,
so that’s that. The terms will be those origin-
ally offered, half the gate money and a
guarantee against loss up to £3OOO, provided
the expenditure of the Afrikanders does
not exceed £12,000. The team is the best
South Africa can produce, with the exception
of Siedle. He has been replaced by another
all-rounder, J. Steyn, who bats left-handed
and is a brilliant field. It is close on 20
years since the Springboks were last seen
in Australia.
“Gate”: Driven by losses last year and
the prevailing stress, the N.S.W. cricket
authorities have cut expenses for the coming-
season as ,far as possible, players’ allowances
in particular getting it in the neck. For
Sheffield and international matches £1 per
day while away on tour and 16s. per day
when at home will be paid, instead of 255.,
and £1 as of yore. Second Xl’s and Colts
will have their smaller fees proportionately
reduced. Umpires have been dropped to £1
per day, leaving out Sundays, and scorers to
16s. a (lay as far as the big games are con-
cerned, with corresponding cuts for minor
events.
❖ # £
“Swivel” : That visit from world’s cham-
pion professional sculler Ted Phelps (B.
19/8/’3l) can be counted on for a certainty
if finance can be arranged. George Towns,
once world’s champion, has the matter in
hand and can command a £5OO stake, with
£2OO for Phelps’s expenses. The Englishman
is willing provided the money for exes, is
raised to £5OO. Jt is probable that he will
take less. Even if he decides to agree to
£3OO, it will cost the supporters of Burns
£lOOO, lumping Phelps’s expenses, the Aus-
tralian stake and Burns’s training expenses
together.
“Mat” : A lurid light on the danger always
lurking in the underworld of bowls is seen
in an appeal made to the N.S.W. Bowling
Association by the official tester of “woods,”
who prayed to. be protected from certain
rough fellows who were threatening to deal
with him in the matter of alleged overcharg-
ing for liis services. The man who tests
bowls is like a Melbourne football umpire—
nobody loves him and he goes in peril all
his days. Your bowler is popularly supposed
to be a benign and harmless individual. Far
from it. Question the accuracy of his bowls
and you will find you have roused the
TTyrcanian tiger.
“Bamboo”: One of the few big polo
matches to be staged in Australia this season
will be the meeting in Sydney of the famous
Ashton team from Goulburn (N.S.W.) and
the Assamauders, a composite club formed
last year. This includes Curtis Skene, of the
Goulburn team which won the Dudley Cup
in 1929; Maple Brown, one of the Harden
four which took the Australasian Gold Cup
the same year; and Frank Crane, who played
with Muswellbrook when they lifted the
Dudley trophy last season. Fourth man is
17-year-old Bob Skene. He promises to turn
out as fine a player as Dad Skene, who has
broken him to the game.
* * * *
“Splash”; The fame of Australian surf
life-saving methods has spread to many lands.
California has adopted them for some time
past, and the latest to move in the same
direction is Cape Colony, where there are
many fine beaches, especially in the vicinity
of Capetown. The establishment of a South
African Life Saving Association on the same
lines as the Australian body is now under
way, and arrangements have been made for
equipping the South African beaches with
up-to-date Australian gear instead of the
somewhat primitive devices at present in use.
“Bully”: The Indian Hockey Federation
lias accepted the invitation to the Indian
team for the Los Angeles Olympiad to play
in the Shivery Isles and Australia. The
tourists express their willingness to tour
both countries for 10 weeks from May on
their way to California, and for five weeks
from August on their way back to India.
The Indians hold the Olympic hockey chain
pionship, and their presence in Australia
and M.L. for the periods suggested should
go a long way to improve the standard of a
game fast finding general favor throughout
Australia.
“Topping Lift”: The vogue of the Ber-
muda sail increases. This season in British
waters King George’s famous old Britannia
has turned out with the new rig on a mast
176 ft. high. The pole is hollow and built
in two sections, the upper fitting into the
lower with a fishing-rod joint. It is diffi-
cult to understand why the advantages of
the Bermuda rig failed to attract attention
for so long. It really amounts to nothing
more than the old leg-o’-mutton sail, which
has been in use among European seamen for
centuries and was once in constant employ-
ment in the ship’s boats of the old wind
jamming British Navy.
* * * *
“San Moritz”: What is claimed to be the
greatest speed ever attained by a human
being unaided by mechanical means of pro-
pulsion was recently put up on a ski-ing
course in Switzerland by one Chiogna. He
was electrically timed to have done 81.8
m.p.h over a measured distance. Though
they cannot actually be said to be means of
propulsion, a good many people will refuse
to accept the record, on the ground that the
skis were certainly an assistance to the
athlete.


Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
sd
ißTOanffs
Maca§§arOil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
3. H. & CO.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4.. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6;' room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 05/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling i
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced r-ates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
m
m
MONEY-SAVING FAMILY
COUGH MIXTURE RECIPE.
Here's a wonderful money-saving recipe
for a family cough mixture that is equally
good for children and adults, and is far
better than any made-up cough mixture you
could buy. Order from your chemist or
store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. Add the Heenzo to sweetened water,
according to the easy directions on the
bottle, and you will have a supply equal to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual
ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost
up to £l. Heenzo does NOT contain any
poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it caii
be given with perfect safety to the youngest
baby. You will be delighted with the speedy
way H'EENZO soothes sore throats, eases the
chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
influenza, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Always have Heenzo ready in the home for
the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember
an ounce of • prevention is better than a ton
of cure.*
“Get Australia Out of the Bog”
and
“How It Must Be Done.”
This is told in last Saturday's “Barrier Miner/’
that famous Australian newspaper published
daily at famous Broken Hill, the Great Central
City of Australia. This newspaper is the onlv
daily (positively the only one) to be found
both in the Workers’ Homes and in all the
homesteads in the Far West! Get on to it!
t> HOUSEHOLD PACES
V SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
lady's LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
„ Etc. Etc. Etc. i.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES C»-
Missing Friends.
’"TO ERNEST OWEN, otherwise known as
1 ERNEST GLENDOWER OWEN,
sometime of Sydney, New South Wales,
formerly of Auckland, New Zealand.
IF ERNEST OWEN, otherwise known as
ERNEST GLENDOWER OWEN, late of
Auckland, New Zealand, and who was last
heard of as residing at 64 Garden Street.
Alexandria, Sydney, or any children of the
said ERNEST OWEN, otherwise known as
ERNEST GLENDOWER OWEN, will com-
municate with L. F. RUDD, Esq., Barrister
and Solicitor, Wyndham Street, Auckland.
New Zealand, he or they will hear of some-
thing to his or their advantage. Any person
in possession of information regarding the
said ERNEST OWEN, otherwise known as
ERNEST GLENDOWER OWEN, or any
children of his, are requested to communicate
with MR. RUDD at the above address.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon’s Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life.
A stranger walking along our streets would
think we were in the throes of a revivalist
campaign. The words “conversion” and
“converting” are on everybody’s lips, and
the name Robert Gibson is spoken with
the reverence due to a high priest. The Girl
in the Flat Opposite has converted her £2OO
worth of bonds. She says she’ll make a will
and bequeath them to her godchild; she
thinks that converted bonds have a really
Christian sound. She also took her little
bankbook and went across to the G.S.B. de-
positors’ meeting in the Town Hall, standing
at the bottom of the Druitt.-street steps,
where positively thousands and thousands of
citizens were draped. It made her feel as
though she were in some Gargantuan poultry-
shop—everybody had such a plucked look.
Loud speakers kept those outside informed as
to what was going on within, but at nine-
thirty, finding it just as impossible to get
herself into the Town Hall as to get her
money out of the G. 5.8., she left for home,
first making sure that her hair wasn’t singed
by the blaze of indignation that had crackled
and snapped for hours around her.
AVillie Kelly is on his way back, which
should make AA T alter Marks feel insecure in
AVentworth. Air. Kelly is the youngest mem-
ber of a remarkable family whose members
combine solidity (Bertie, the eldest, is a
commercial magnate of great tonnage) with
brilliant artistic qualities. AVillie made his
mark in Federal politics when Liberalism
was in its heyday, and then resigned the
seat he had held ever since AVilliam McMillan
left polities and went abroad in search of
better health.
Reginald Purbrick, Conservative ALP. for
Walton, who, according to Texas Guinan,
New York’s night club empress, offered to
accommodate her and her lady friends on his
yacht when they were refused admission to
France, is an Australian. He made a for-
tune —largely out of Nestles —and left for
England some years ago. He looks 40 or less,
though he is approaching his middle fifties,
dresses with monocled smartness, and is
highly esteemed by the Tories for his hard,
cool business head.
Rex Faithfull, son of the grazing doctor
of Aloss Vale, and for years consid-
ered one of the State’s most eligible and
most confirmed bachelors, slipped into double
harness recently at. St. Peter’s, the Rich-
mond church whose century-old register
records the marriage of Faithfull forebears.
The nice bride was Alaisie Ilodgkinson, of
Edgecliff. Betty Andrews was the one ’maid
and Alec Johnston best-manned. AVaudoo,
AVagga, is the ’groom’s station property and
the site of the happy couple’s liome._ Rex’s
mother still lives at Bibury, Aloss Vale.
Rex is of the opinion that the picnic races
at Tirranna (a Faithfull institution) will
never be run again. There was no meeting
this year. Alotoring has made riding one of
the lost arts, and the only gleam of hope in
the depression, to your real country man, is
that, hard tinges having deprived him of his
car, the youth of the Backblocks will take
to mokes once more.
Good-looking males aren’t generally served
with their soup to Lyceum members, but last
Friday night men of many lands were pre-
sent (with their wives, of course) at the
annual dinner. Consuls-General were among
them, and the name-cards on the official
table blazed with the flags of Japan, the
United States, Norway, Holland and Italy.
What an interesting representative of Italy
is Commendatore Grossardi! His fine head
is thickly thatched with smooth greying hair;
his eyes flash and his teeth and hands laugh
throughout a conversation. Of the group,
Netherlands Consul Teppema seemed the
greatest novel-reader, while America’s Mr.
Tredwell and Norway’s Air. Fay were debat-
ing the advantages of snowballs versus high-
balls among a country’s manufactures. The
Japanese Consul told the fable of the frogs
from Kobe and Kioto to show the fallacy
of too narrow a point of view; and his blush-
ing little wife explained the Japanese print
of the card game. This has nothing to do
with bridge; it is a New Year indoor game,
in which a hundred poems printed on slips
of paper play an important part. Mrs. A.
G Thomas, graceful in ivory laces, and Miss
Chisholm, in black and silver, were the
night’s hostesses, and Airs. Aluscio was an
inspired mistress of ceremonies.
If the 2000 or so girls assembled at the
Stadium the other night represent the church
militant, it’s no wonder this conversion idea
has caught Sydney’s imagination. The
bright-faced ones were taking part in the
Gills’ Gala, which Avas the opening
manoeuvre in the Y.W.C.A. jubilee celebra-
tions. All the sports clubs sent emissaries
to this display of healthy young womanhood.
Girl Guides, hockey girls, fencing girls and
Swedish-culture girls stepped erect and alert
in the march past the Governor and his lady
and civic dignitaries such as the Ludmayor
and Mrs. Jackson. Miss Fowler, president
of the Y.W.C.A.; Mrs. M. Peatfield, sports
secretary of the vast association, and Mrs.
F. J. Davy, queen of the hockey girls, were
important people in the movement who looked
gratified over the success of the display.
This is Girl Citizens’ AVeck, and the
Y.W.C.A. hall iri Liverpool-street is simply
bursting with bud and blossom. The jubila-
tions of the young of the species are to mark
the 50th anniversary of the association. A
sports day at the Showground next Saturday
and a special display of girls’ work at the
Y.AV.C.A. hall on September 2 are among
the listed gaieties. 1
Justice Long I lines (“Reggie” to his
friends), whose plaint in the “S. M. Herald”
about his financial plight caused general
interest last week, is the only member of the
Supreme Court. Bench whose father was a
puisne before him. His family is.one of the
oldest in Australia on both sides: his father
was descended from an officer of Bligh’s day,
or thereabouts, and his mother was a Jago
Smith, of Bathurst. It. lias suffered the fate
of many another well-known Sydney clan.
George, the eldest, married one of the Potts
Point MacQuades, and died childless, and
Percy, the other brother, and an only sister
live in England.
Mosman is still chuckling over “Sky’s
the Limit,” played by the local Comedy and
Dramatic Society at the civic hall. The
society keeps a cot going at the Royal North
Shore Hospital, and helps the Mosman
Parents and Citizens’ Association, both of
which will benefit. Versatile Les Hale drama-
tised and produced and had a leading part
in the play, which sparkled along the gay
old track of deceiving husbands and watchful
wives, the wayside blooms of mirth being
supplied by balloons ’ and parachutes,
mediums, private detectives and gullible old
gentlemen.
Alan Mickle, whose book on the plays of
Eugene O’Neill and the drama in general
was published recently in London, is back in
Sydney. Among his possessions are two long
letters from O’Neill in appreciation of the
careful study of his works by the Australian
writer; the epistles suggest that Eugene is
a pet lamb, and not a hairy ape at all. The
handwriting is exquisite, and every line
reveals the keen student of human nature
that the American is. One of the letters was
written from the Loire country, where
Eugene was holidaying prior to his latest
venture into matrimony. At the time, much
to his amusement, the papers were putting
him into a sanatorium in Switzerland for
lung trouble. He declines to waste away in
the Keats and R. L. Stevenson tradition, and
confesses that nerves, not lungs, are his par-
ticular torment. Since his return, Mr. Mickle,
who is a Melbourne man, has got a book of
verse ready for his publisher, Jervis Manton.
It is called “The Poor Poet and the Beautiful
Lady,” after the opening sonnet sequence.
In this picture Ursula McConnel doesn’t
look like a lady who has spent many months
among the northern abos., but in 1927, ’2B
and ’3O she went on expeditions to Cape
York, and un-
der the aus-
pices of the
A u s t r alian
National Re-
search Coun-
cil her studies
in anthropo-
logy have cov-
ered a very
wide field. She
brought down
shields and
other lethal
weapons for
the proposed
E thnological
Museum at
Canberra; she
is also the
possessor of a
varied and in-
timate collec-
tion of photo
graphs of abo.
life, and phonograph records of songs and
corroborees. This unusual Australian left
Sydney by the Ventura last week for a
year’s* study in U.S.A. as holder of a social-
service research scholarship. Queensland
claims her as a daughter; her home, Cres-
brook, is in the Brisbane River valley.
The Countess of Lindsey, who died last
week, married her husband when he was Cap-
tain Bertie, A.D.C. to the festive Lord Car-
rington. She was Millie Cox, daughter of
a handsome old doctor whose offspring had
a tendency to resemble Athenians of Greece's
golden age. Arthur, her brother, practised
in Sydney as a dentist till a few years ago,
when rising taxation drove him to Jersey,
where he died. The Lindseys had no son,
and the title, which dates from the begin-
ning of the seventeenth century, will pass to
a collateral, Lord Abingdon, in the ordinary
course of events.
Sydney artists are already smiling over
the news of Howard Hinton’s return to his
native land. Howard, who arrives by the
Nestor early next month, is one of the most
persistent buye/s of canvases in Australia.
His gift of Hilders and Norman Lindsays
before his departure and his present of “The
Nightingale” from England are among the
Gallery’s great treasures.
The Steele Rudd testimonial filled St.
James’s Hall even to overflowing on Fri-
day, the opening night, and filled it com-
fortably on Saturday. The bill consisted of
five one-acters, Australian-made and played
by Australians. Adele Quinn. Kathleen
Trefle, Molly Carlson and Marie Boyers
recurred in three of the playlets, but Lali Le
Gay Brereton stuck to the one part
in father’s bush idyll. Of these Adele
had most opportunities for frocking and
appeared variously in black velvet, a colorful
sports outfit and a yellow organdie frock,
slim as to waist, long and billowy as to
skirt and with the berthe collar —all in the
manner of our most up-to-date old-world
styles. It. was marvellous how the little
stage of St. James’s could hold so much
drama of the bush, and producer John Gould
must bo congratulated on wringing such a
perspective out of so small an area.
Steele Rudd was in the audience each
night, and on Saturday Bert Bailey, Dad
Rudd whiskers and all. dropped in with a
cheque in his pocket for his old friend. Repre-
sentatives of the many amateur theatrical
clubs in Sydney came along to pay respects
to him who still remains the genius of Aus-
tralian drama. Doris Fitton, of the Indepen-
dents, in Lady Macbethian velvets, and Clar-
ence Murphy were with a party, and Moyna
Martin, of the Playbox, was another inter-
ested listener. Poetess Dora Wilcox came
with husband Bill Moore. Sculptor Theo
Cowan, the Morgan O’Neills, Zora Cross.
Mary Gilmore and Le Gay Brereton himself
were other well-knowns in a house which
rocked with laughter when the professor’s
hero, a sun-bronzed young stalwart, says to
his best girl, “And I’ve got a bit of money
in the bank in Sydney!”
Here's a great friend of the Far West Chil-
dren’s Health scheme, of which founder Padre
S. Drummond
drew so grip-
ping a picture
to a crowded
meeting last
week. Tli e
subject of this
May Moore
picture is Mrs.
Moncrieff Bar-
ron, wife of
the well-known
Manly doctor,
so it is no
wonder that
the travelling
clinic has her
particular
support. She
is treasurer of
t h e district
hospital’s
women’s auxi-
liary ; a n d
apart from
good works her enthusiasm is for Rugby foot-
ball. since • son Moncrieff is skipper of The
King’s School fifteen.
In the good old-fashioned way dancers at
the Wentworth the other night, had to be
requested to take turns in sitting out. First
the couples on the right side of the room
were allowed to get up and step and waggle
blithely in the dance. When they sat down
the men and girls on the left side had their
innings. The crowd was enormous, over 1000
trying to get foothold; and Florrie Howard,
who helped to organise the dance, confided
that such a : pre-depression response even to
the United Charities fund was more than
she had dared -to hope for. One of the
night’s star turns was the parade of entrants
in the “Miss Sydney” competition. Each
girl sported a crimson sash emblazoned with
the name of the suburb she represented, arid
as she passed her particular chums there
were loud bursts of applause. Mayoress
Jackson, who with her husband was presi-
dent of the committee, was also invested with
a red sash. It didn’t blend in well with the
wine-red of her velvet frock, but her smile
harmonised the whole. A posy of debs, was
presented to her by Mrs. P. A. Cameron,
who wore old-world blue taffetas entwined
with creamy lace. Blue chiffon and lace
were also wedded in Mrs. Kingsford Smith’s
frocking. Alderman Marks and United
Charities organiser A. Upjohn were others
officially present.
OVERHEARD.
Daughter : “You’re too heavy. Dad; you should
reduce.”
Father, (a Judge ): “Nonsense. Haven’t I lost
pounds this last month?”
Bananaland chimes in :
The Bachelovs’ Ball was in the South Brisbane City
Hall. Bunches of golden wistaria interspersed with
gay lanterns outlined the gallery, a huge yellow
lantern was suspended in .the entrance hall, and
fluted streamers of orange and gold veiled the lights
in the ballroom. Among the dancers were Mrs. X.
A. 11. Campbell, in black georgette with a trail of
white azaleas; Mrs. Ross Philp, in lemon and bronze;
Judith Herring, of Sydney, in calyx-green; Marjoiie
Mant, in Nile-green ; Betty Hungerford, of Sydney, in
ivory and cherry; and Peggy Bell, in white satin
with a wreath of rosebuds.
At the Flying Corps Ball, in the Trocadero, light
blue, dark blue and red made up the color scheme,
with > model monoplanes hanging overhead. Guests
included the Premier and Mrs. Moore, the Lud
Mayor and Mayoress, the Attorney-General and his
wife, the Cumbrae Stewarts, and Commander Sharpe,
from the Albatross. Mr. and Mrs. T. Humble
received the guests, she wearing crimson ring velvet.
Mrs.' Moore was in black lace, Mrs. Maegroarty
chose lavender lace, and Mrs. Lorenzo was in blue.
Margaret Gordon’s lemon mariette was worn with a
wine-toned hip-length coat.
For the District Nursing Association and the
Mothers’ Union there was a ball in the City Hall,
to which the G.-G. and his wife and Sir John and
Lady Goodwin went. The Isaacs lady, who wore
cornflower-blue, received a bouquet of crimson roses
in gold leaves. Ombre georgette in bronze and gold
was worn by Lady Goodwin, and violets and wall-
flowers comprised her posy. Mrs. Moore was in
petal pink taffetas and the Mayoress danced in
•snowdrift georgette, with a petal pink soutache on
the full skirt.
In St. Stephen's Cathedral, Fred Hall took to
wife Lucy Rose, of. Burleigh Heads. The bride was
in ivory satin with cut tulle veil and orange
blossoms, and her bouquet was sweet-pea and roses.
Violet Hall, in biscuit ninon, and Miss A. Weiland.
in white crepe de Chine, were ’maids. Both wore
rose-colored tulle turbans and carried white sweet-
peas and roses. Little Doris Smith was trainbearer
in blue.
Commodore Holbrook and officers of the squadron
gave a dance on the Canberra. Captain Smith, of
the Canberra. Captain Chalmers, of the Australia,
Captain Pope, of the Albatross, and Lieut. J. R.
Miller, commander of the Tattoo, were the other
hosts. Beneath a bower of sweet-peas and peach
bloom, a .figure in inflated diver’s dress stood at
attention at the companion way. Gay flags, flowers
and lights extended to the starboard waist, and
Iceland poppies and marigolds adorned the orchestral
platform under the big guns of a turret. The
Mayoress was in white mariette, Mrs. Neal Mae-
groarty in black lace, and Mrs. McFarlanc in ivory
georgette. Mrs., George Addison wore a jade choker
with her black lace gown.
A spasm front the Speck:—
The Lieut.-Gov. opened- the dog and poultry show
at the City Hall in the fewest possible words. It
was a good show, though some dog-lovers regret the
preponderance of 'Alsa Cans, whose bad reputation is
going to take a lot of living down.
Many sixpences went bang in preparation for the
Scotch College Ball, held in the Albert Hall,
Launceston. Mr. and Mrs. W. IV. V. Briggs received
the guests, the lady in a printed chiffon frock in
rose arid mauve coloring. The stage was arranged
as a comfy lounge, with decorations in the college
colors, maroon and dark blue. Over the orchestral
dais a huge Scotch thistle defied the world to
touch it.
Among visitors from the. mainland are Mrs. lan
Hodgson and her two youngsters, who are staying
with Mrs. Hodgson’s - parents;, the David Merediths,
while Lieut.-Commander Hodgson is with the fleet
on its Pacific Islands cruise. Another one is Mrs.
Warburton, who is staying with her father and
mother, > the T. A. Tabarts, Mount Stuart-road.
Collegiate “Old Girls’’ of Huonville ran a very
successful dance at. the . Huonville Town Hall, where
over MOO footed it to the, music of the local orchestra.
The proceeds want to the funds of St. John’s
Hospital, and the unemployed.
The Midland Hunt Club . bad its last meet at
Campbell Town. . Acting Master Ewan Cameron led
on Kindred Lad, and among - those out were the
Arthur Bennetts, with . sori Percy, Madge Finlay,
Kathleen Mercer (\vho took the drag), Cynthia Cam-
eron, Barbara arid -Mollis Bennett, N. Littleehild,
Miss Dobson, Messrs. Rupert Agnew, E. Stanley, J.
Clark, P. Clark, F. Clark -and R. Murphy. The
motorists included Mrs. Eustace Cameron, Mrs. Lex
Finlay, Edith Foster. Mary Taylor, G. L. Finlay
and Stanley Martin. ‘
Mrs. B. G. Musehamp is back in the Speck after
a long , sojourn with her son in the Cold Country.
As a J.P. she- was given a seat on the bench in
London, Bournemouth ,and Bristol. Child welfare was
her chief preoccupation while away, and the Bourne-
mouth baby clinic furnished her with a field for it.
Grace Smith, a Laiuicesjton musician and teacher,
has returned after three' years of globe-trotting and
musical study. In Switzerland and in California she
did a lot of mountain climbing, and she had a look
at South Africa on her homeward way.


•N°9ol
A FULL FITTING
Full Fashioned
DESIGNED TO REALLY FIT
THE FULL SHAPED LEG
Fully Fashioned stockings have hitherto been creat-
ed to the standard of the medium and slender leg
and it has been left to the Research Department of
Prestige Limited to create, after considerable ex-
periment, a perfect Full Fitting stocking. So impor-
tant do Hosiery experts regard the improvements in
this stocking, that Prestige Limited has patented them
in the principal countries of the world. As a
result, Prestige Limited are the only manufacturers
of Full Fashioned Hosiery who can offer a
satisfactory Full-Fitting style. . . Per pair
12/11
■
I
m
%m
m <
i m
■
m
The ordinary full-fashioned stocking (see illus. A) is
not really suitable for wear on a full-shaped leg. In
such cases, there is always a tendency for the hose
to tighten around the lower calf and to show an ugly
distortion of the fashion marks. The stocking is also
difficult to hold in position, the tendency being to
work down and wrinkle at the ankle.
In the New Prestige patented Fashioned Leg (see illus.
B) these disadvantages have been overcome by com-
mencing the fashioning process immediately above
the heel splicing. The fashionings are not visible,
however, until the normal position for fashion marks is
reached. Thus the Prestige patent Leg allows more
room in the lower part of the leg. This new stock-
ing has a perfectly normal appearance, giving a
distinct impression of slimness to the ankle and as-
suring CORRECT fit and comfort without any distor-
tion to the fabric.
m
■
I I
The illustrations below show at a glance the
marked superiority of the new Prestige Patent
Heel (illus. B) over the heel of the ordinary
Full-Fashioned Hosiery (illus. A).
■
m
&
Every woman has experienced the discomfort
of that little pointed tab of loose material on
ordinary heels—-which remains ill-fitting no
matter how the stocking is pulled or coaxed.
Even the most expensive stockings have this
disadvantage. Now, in the new patent heel,
Prestige has designed a stocking which fits
instantly and snugly to the curve of the heel
without a trace of pucker or wrinkle. Here,
for the first time, is perfect comfort and perfect
heel-fitting in fully-fashioned Hosiery. The
Prestige patent Heel is another Prestige inno-
vation which fastidious women will be quick to
appreciate
MAKERS OF
FINE HOSIERY


CJ&0?
o
RING UP England,
Scotland, Ireland,
Wales or 20 Euro-
pe a n countries,
Canada, New Zea-
land, U.S.A., Mexico,
Cuba and Java from
your own home or
office Vi*
\°fH°ME
9>
TELEGRAPH Eng-
land, Scotland, Ire-
land, Wales, North
and South America
and all European
countries Via
fsd
TELEGRAPH youf
friends at sea and in
the Pacific Islands.
Via
rkdio
(§>
For full information tele-
phone A.W.A. offices,
Sydney 8W2211, or Mel-
bourne F 4161, and ask
for "Traffic," or apply at
any Post Office or at
Amalgamated Wireless
(A'sia.) Ltd,, 47 York St„
Sydney; 167-9 Queen
St., Melbourne; Collins
House, Collins St., Mel-
bourne.
Maoris cook
food in hot
streams!
New
sm
if * :
Zealand
now on your way to
England . ♦' . via the
Matson Line!
NOW, fast Matson Liners
serve you between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. And
you visit picturesque Auck-
land on your way to America
or England via this route. You
reach London in just 32 days!
Every third Tuesday at 2 p.m.
a Matson Liner leaves Sydney.
MAIL THIS COUPON
Please send me free information
on a trip to Auckland Cl Suva 0
Pago Pago 0 Honolulu 0 United j
States 0 England □
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
Phone B 7981-3
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?]
The horn of the huntsman winding the
lilt of “It’s a Fine Hunting Day” to jazz
measure was the signal to take partners for
the first dance at the ball in the Dandenong
Scouts’ Hall, engineered hy the Melbourne
Hunt Club on behalf of the Dandenong
Hospital and the Pakenham Bush-nursing
Hospital. Mrs. Harry F. Creswick, Norman
Wood and Denis Moore were chief organ-
isers. Decorations, in red and white, were
carried out by L. D. Bonette, Mr. and Mrs.
F. L. Verey, Mr. and Mrs. A. Fleming, Mr.
and Mrs. G. Keys, Mrs. C. C. Moore and
others. Artificial cherry blossoms and huge
baskets of arum-lilies and red-hot poker
blossoms which hung from the ceiling were
used, while fox-masks and -brushes dotted
the walls. The orchestra, in hunting cos-
tume, appeared above a bank of lilies. On
the supper tables, spread in a marquee,
mounds of camellias of the two colors made
brightness. A set of lancers, danced by
1.6 representatives from the Melbourne Oak-
lands and Findon clubs, figured on the pro-
gramme. Mrs. Harry Creswick, whose white
chiffon frock was worn with a coat embroid-
ered in silver sequins, danced in this with
C. C. Moore, the deputy master of the
M.H.C. Mrs. Moore, in black cire lace, was
partnered by the master of the M.H.C., A. T.
Creswick. There were four ticket secre-
taries : Hylda McCardel, whose powder-blue
gown was garnished with a huge white
flower in the centre of the back of her
bodice; Doris Foster, who was wrapped
about in platinum-colored tissue; Kath-
leen Ahern, of Pakenham, and Gwen Abbott,
of Berwick, both in pale green There were
two debutantes —Joan White, whose petal-
pink chiffon frock was flounced; and Joan
Keys, who wore white satin. Each carried
a. pink posy. Jess Robertson, of Melton,
danced in black velvet, with fine lace at
ihe yoke and top of the sleeves. Molly
Finlay, of Seymour, chose powder-blue with
polka spot of white, and Elsie Chrisp looked
attractive in biscuit-colored georgette traced
with gold. Mrs. M. Tv. Baillieu’s parchment-
colored satin gown was furnished with a,
detachable cape of the material, finished at
tin 1 neck with small white flowers. Among
the onlookers was Mrs. M. H. Beswick, just
'turned 80, whose black-and-gold coat covered
a black gown that had a sparkle of moon-
light-blue beads. She was one of the pioneer
followers of the hounds in Australia. Mrs.
Pennefather, who wore black, was with Miss
Geraldine Pennefather, of Berwick: and the
S. A. Greaves, of Narre Warren, were among
the folk of the district who took part. The
Robert. Knoxes. Mrs. R. M. Cutlibertson (in
royal blue chiffon) and Mr. and Mrs. A. V.
H-iskens were in the city contingent.
For the Commercials’ dance St. Kilda Town
Hall was decked with reseda-green and orange
festoons, with lights of blending shades and
flower-filled window-boxes about the gallery.
The president of the C.T.A., W. Williams,
and his wife and J. B. Wallace were guests
of honor. Mrs. Williams wore black lace,
and Mrs. Julian, whose husband was chair-
man of the organising committee, danced in
deep pink satin topped by a black velvet
coat. An emerald-green coatee was worn by
Mrs. E. J. Binney with her black lace gown.
Betty Proud wore a dainty frock of
white organdie with touches of pink about
the corsage. Mrs. Ivan Van Assche sported
a shoulder spray of pink carnations upon
black lace. Just back from a lengthy tour
of South Africa were Mr. and Mrs. W'. 11.
Russell and the E. Chapman couple were also
there, she wearing black chiffon patterned
in autumn tones. Val de Gruchy wore
cherry satin shoes with her pale green ninon-
flouuced frock. The Bert Scotts, Mr. and
Mrs. W. Kitch, Mrs. Clark-Doyle, whose
figured-chiffon frock was in Paisley design ;
the J. D. Pikes and Councillor E. L. Jones
and Mrs. Jones were among the dancers.
St. Aloysius’ Old Collegians danced at the
Rex. The lion, sec., Ivy Pridham, who wore
white satin, had Miss K. Murray, whose
blue frock was topped by a pink velvet
coatee, as her assistant. Miss C. Duggan,
the president of the 0.C.A., accepted a
presentation posy that blended effectively
with her delphinium-blue lace and satin
gown.
Wearing their white coming-out frocks
the 30 buds of this year’s Newman Society
Ball were hostesses at a return dance at
No. 9. Mrs. F. Coffey and Mrs. Barry, who
shepherded them in march and dance for
their debut, were the chief guests of honor,
and each received a crystal lamp as a sou-
venir. The president of. the Newman Society,
D. J. McGrath, accompanied Mrs. McGrath,
who wore black satin with a gold-and-rose-
patterned lame coat, and was handed a posy
by the president of the debs.’ committee,
Elvie Prahl. Amy Lucini and Nancy Mitty
were the hon. secs., Pat Breheny and M.
Hedrick being the treasurers. Mrs. Prowse.
was there with her daughter Phil, whose tur-
quoise-blue frock was trimmed with pink
roses, which also wreathed her hair. Mena
McGrath and Nancy Prahl were in blue
with long bodices of silk allied to tulle
skirts of many flounces. Margaret Davidson
wore a well-cut gown of black velvet. Floral
chiffon patterned in pink on black was
chosen by Rosa Lucini. Dolly deal's gown
was of lace of mushroom-pink tint. An
effective touch was achieved by a maiden
who contrasted green satin shoes with a
frock of amber-colored tulle.
Prime Minister Scullin and his wife, the
lady in a gold lace frock with matching coat
trimmed with white fur, attended a charity
ball at the Richmond Town Hall. Mayor
Mitchell, head of the organising committee,
was there with Mrs. Mitchell, whose gown
was of sapphire-blue satin. The same even-
ing the younger folk of the suburb staged
a dance at the Rex for the same cause,
Mollie Murphy being prime mover. ,
Luck was with the Yarra Glen and Lily-
dale Hunt Club, whose race meeting at
Moonee Valley marked the opening of the
totalisator at that course. The roll-up con-
stituted the year’s record for a mid-week
meeting. The tote was taxed to the utmost,
and there was growling from people who
could not battle their way to the window in
time to place a bet. Women patrons in the
members’ enclosure discovered they had been
provided with a tote for themselves tucked
in a corner behind the new stand. Tjie Cup
Steeplechase was won by R. M. Cuthbert-
son’s Scotland Star. George Armstrong, as
a vice-president of the club, handed over
the big silver cup to the winner, and the
rider, F. Beckingsdale, collected a gold-
inounted whip. Among those who watched
the racing were Dr. and Mrs. A. E. Syine,
Dr. Hilda Rennie. Mrs. R. M. Cutlibertson,
Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Slieahan, Mrs. James
Purves and Valerie, the Lauchie Mackin-
nons, Mrs. J. H. Moss and Mrs. A. V.
Kewney.
Myers the other day staged a mannequin
show with musical trimmings. A small girl
in a Kate Greenaway gown and poke bonnet
of white silk, carrying a great bough of
peach-blossom, was the herald of the proces-
sion. Followed an array of knitted sports’
wear, mostly in stripes and very gay, with
berets and felt hats to match every suit. The
evening gowns and day frocks of diaphanous
materials —lace, chiffon, broderie anglaise
and such—-were of the voluminous type that
eats up yards and yards of stuff. Every one
of these drosses had a matching little coat
of the same material or of velvet, or else
was topped with a shoulder cape of taffeta.
Some very beautiful rainbow effects and
pastel shades were shown in organdie and
eyelet-embroidered muslins. Costumes and
ensembles ran mostly to shortish coats, the
latest idea being a plain coat allied to check
or plaid skirt. An imported version of this
style had a black coat combined with light
grey and black French tweed. r iae latest,
top-coats are built on the old-fashioned
coachman plan, with plenty of curves. Some
are smartly trimmed with plain or plaid
silk about the collar.
Of course there was a show of pyjamas,
which take the place of the tea-gown of 30
years or so ago. One of these models had
stone-colored accordeon-pleated satin trousers
of great width and a small black velvet
jacket. Beach-pyjamas have reached the level
of “confections.” Most of the exhibits were:
made of jersey silk. One' striking example,
worn by a Titian-haired mannequin, was of
wood-brown and primrose hues. The trou-
sers, so full as to suggest twin flowing
skirts, hang from a very deep yoke-shaped
belt. As to hats, the dinky little things
with wreaths of flowers^beneath their brims
or * a brush mount hanging down to the
shoulder now hold the stage. A black straw
sailor hat that suggested little Orphant Annie
or a Charlotte Bronte heroine was much
admired.
Bro othorn
pictures here
llylda McCar-
del, who was
one of the four
ticket secre-
taries of the
II unt Club
Ball at Dan-
denong. Miss
McCardel, who
is a daughter
of Mrs. Lys-
ter Jackson,
is a keen fol-
lower of the
hounds. About
a year ago she
had a trip to
the Cold Coun-
try and the
Continent, and
did some hunt-
ing in Ire-
land.
Bettine, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. Holman James, of Ivew, was attended
by five ’maids when she wedded Thomas
Meek Ramsay. The entourage sported volu-
minous flounced frocks of pale green silk net
and Juliet caps wreathed with white blos-
soms. Dangling on their arms were green
baskets filled with white lilac. The' bride
wore a lace gown sprinkled jvith crystal
beads, a froth of silk net and a tulle veil.
She carried a sheaf of artificial arum-lilies.
The after-rejoicings took place at No. 9, the
bride’s parents being joined by the bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. W. Ramsay, in greet-
ing the guests.
Mollie, daughter of the George L. Lukins,
of Middle Brighton, was linked at St. Cutli-
bert’s to John, only son of the E. A. Evas,
of Sydney. The bride’s veil, of lovely lace,
was mounted on tulle and cascaded over a
gown of vellum-toned satin, and she carried
a bouquet of primroses mingled with orchidsi
Isabel Lukin, her sister, and Mary Raws
attended in lace frocks of deep parch-
ment hue, fashioned with coatees; they wore
wreaths of pink blossoms, a motif repeated
in their bouquets, and green satin shoes.
At the Wattle afterwards the guests included
Judge and Mrs. Lukin, Mrs. Duncan
Mac Lean, of Sydney, Captain and Mrs. G.
Thompson, and Mr. and Mrs. W. 11. Merry.
Mrs. Fred Collier (Elsy Treweek), wear-
ing a japonica-red suit and hat, was wel-
comed and given a posy by members of the
Austral Salon at afternoon tea. Secretary
Iris Shaw, in cedar-brown, did the honors.
Mrs. Collier was also a guest of honor at
the New Con., where a programme of cham-
ber music included a Beethoven sonata
played hy pianist Henri Penn, and violinist
Rene Bregozzo, Brahm’s quintet in F minor,
and songs by Grace Evans. Mrs. Ann
Macky, director of the Con., was also a per-
former.
In the “Duchess of Dantzic,” revived at
the Royal on Saturday, the women wear
Directoire gowns with redingotes and tall
plumed hats, or trail satin draperies and
ermine-bordered trains of velvet. Elaborate
and gay are the uniforms of the military—
scarlet faced with green, bottle-sreen, white
satin slashed with gold, and yet others all
crimson. Dorothy Brunton sheds the striped
skirt, white blouse and black velvet corselet
o p the laundry-girl of the first act for a buff-
colored gown embroidered in gold, with u
front panel of jade-greeq. A matching- high
hat with shaded feathers becomes her well. In
the final act she sports a white satin robe
with a sparkling tiara of laurel-leaf design.
Romola Hansen makes an attractive picture
in a blue satin gown and bonnet. At the
end of the piece Dorothy Brunton, laden with
flowers, was pushed forward to say her
thanks, while husband Ben Dawson looked
out from a box.
Bridge was played at Menzies’ to help
provide new vehicles for the Civil Ambulance
service. Mrs. H. H. Burton, who sported
orchids on her black gown, and Miss Stirling,
in berry-red lace, were the organisers. Miss
Appleton and Helen MacMillan supervised
sales of sweets and smokes.
The Uni. Con. boiled the billy in honor
of pianist Mark Hambourg and his wife.
Mrs. Hambourg, who wore an ensemble of
black cloth with Persian lamb collar and
cuffs, and black millinery, was handed a
bunch of daffodils and boronia. Prof. Bern-
ard Heinze and Thomas Brentnall offered
welcoming speeches, and Mr. Hambourg made
chatty reply.
This is Joan Richmond, who knows all
about speed. She has driven her sports car
in every lady's
race and every
relay team
race at Aspen-
dale, and at
the Exhibition
speedway she
ha s clocked
just l-ssec.
short of record
time. She and
her friend
Molly Shaw
were the only
women to take
part in the
road race to
Cowes. She
has an eye for
a good horse,
too, and has
trained h e r
own gee-gees,
which she has
ri dd e n a t
picnic race meetings. Miss Richmond
is a member of the party of six leaving
here this month to compete in the Monte
Carlo motor rally.
South Aus. canters in:—
The first of the Adelaide Racing Club meetings
at Victoria Park opened with a £6l dividend, and
closed with a £5B return on the double tote, so
there were delighted punters. James Hall and his
good-looking daughters entertained at afternoon tea.
The Mayor and Mayoress were present, Mrs. Glover
wearing a tweed ensemble, stone marten fur and
black satin hat. The Allan McFarlanes came to town
for the racing week, and the lady looked well in a
coat of black Persian lamb and wide-brimmed hat.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant wore a navy tailored suit and
hat to match, with a red jumper to add a touch
of color.
The public came in hundreds to ■ the bridge party
organised to raise funds for the Royal Institute for
the Blind; players overflowed from the hall into the
institution itself and there were tables wherever
it was possible to squeeze one. Best of all, every-
thing was lent or donated, and the afternoon-tea
committee handled the feeding of the flock with a
deal of skill.
John Martin’s Big Store Ball in the Palais Royal
in aid of the Mayor’s Relief Fund proved a' great
success; a feature of the evening was the polonaise
waltz under the direction of Mr. Tingey. The
Mayoral pair were present; Miss E. Lovett (organ-
iser), looking very chic in black satin, received.
Lady Hore-Ruthven is in the throes of a welcome
home from every society of which she is patroness.
The Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Home entertained
her at Whitmore-square.
The W. Langdon Parsons gave a party at their
home at Kensington Gardens to celebrate the host’s
birthday. Judges, Senators and the legal profes-
sion figured largely among the guests.
The Victoria League of South Australia is com-
bining an annual meeting with a welcome to Lady
Hore-Ruthven at the Liberal Union Hall this week.
The Robert Hendersons’ pretty daughter Betty
celebrated her coming of age with a dinner party to
her young friends at the Oriental Hotel. Later
the party went on to the Plaza to dance.
Westralia’s letter: —
Pumps and French heels emerged in tatters from
the melee of the Advertising Arts Ball. The most
frisky picked their way among- the bottles on the
tables to reach the dance floor through the phalanx
of humanity. Many new gowns just home from the
dressmakers are doomed to finish their days as
polishing rags. The most attractive novelty trans-
formed the darkened room into a glow-worm cave
wherein each dancer gyrated with a twinkling
Chinese lantern. Margai’et Mulcahy wore an elegant
garment of royal blue georgettes; little green
flowers grew upon Claire Noonan’s black taffetas;
Mrs.. Nelson Mills chose shell-pink ; Mrs. Kiernan’s
black gown had a panel of pink ninon inserted into
the back; Jessie Meares and Maisie Campbell were
black-garbed; blue predominated in Sylvia George’s
ninon; in between dances Becea Davies slipped a
little lace coat over her backless shell-pink con-
fection.
The youngest fry had a gorgeous time at the
children’s party in G.-H. ballroom; part of the
annual appeal week of the kindergarten union.
Fierce pirates with gory blades and blacked-out
teeth sold threepenny shivers in a smugglers’ cave.
A jumbo sneezed forth bags of peanuts in exchange
for a silver coin, balloons bobbed among hollyhocks
and tulips, and midget golf held sway over a few
square yards. Ten little strawberries, polar bears,
almond-eyed Japs, ,Indian's, drummer-boys, a walk-
ing doll in her beribboned box, hobgoblins, fairies
and dozens of tots in old-world gowns, with their
curls hidden under white wigs, capered happily and
tried to remember their party manners when con-
fronted with long tables heavy with jellies and
creamy cakes. A railway trolley, disguised as a
mossy bank with a fairy queen poised upon it, made
a grand entry just before going-home time. The
O’Neill twins, two little Mclntyres, Ronnie Saw,
some offspring of the G. S. Scotts, the Percy Whites’
youngster, a brace of little O’Haras and the Ron
Oldhams’ son and heir were some of the lucky
young things.
Molly Hancock and her brother Val timed their
engagements to within a few days. Sherbournc
Newman and Joan Butler (from Duntroon) are their
respective fiances.
P. R. Le Couteur, distinguished scholar and
record-breaker at Oxford in the cricket field, is oil'
this week, with his musical-wife and family, for
Sydney, where he takes over the headmaster’s sceptre
at Newington College. His successor as Hale
School’s head, Dr. Buntine, of Victoria, arrives
during the vacation.
Joan and Betty Rayner were a success Here;
followers of the Muses and a goodly sprinkling of
society filled their houses for several entertainment'.
With the exception of the hidden hand which mani-
pulated a rabbit, a cat, some chickens, a grinning
Satan, a coy-looking bullock, etc., the pair had no
assistance on the stage. Getting a laugh from
“French Without Tears’’ were noticed Mrs. R. T.
Robinson, Mrs. Alec McNeil, Mrs. Le Tessier, Flora
Banning, some members of the Stoddart family,
medico and Mrs. Frank Gill, Bernie O’Dea, Mr\.
Rose Atkinson and Norman Wingrove.


F I J 1
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN, £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON N ECK OF EVE l»Y BOTTIt
ETAT MEANS
"STATE viz
OWNED BY THE
BOTTLED acuaitanteed
PURE BV THE PRENCH
GOVERNMENT
r-
m
i/s
lo
w
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen.
tietty and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME Of THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
~bhe following statement defies contradiction:
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism. uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
. VICTORIA:
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide*
1C Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.AV.
" WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
Plum Razor Guard
mrnm
r
3 ’
m
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits any ordinary blade razor, -§, f inch.
With this Guard you can shave with perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
&he
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-aay Sets—7 Razors in oak case—Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
“PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in two
widths—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
National Debt
Conversion Loan
Restoration of Financial Stability
Sacrifices Shared by All Sections
Copies of Prospectus containing full information
may be obtained at all Banks, Savings Banks,
and Money Order Post Offices.
AN APPEAL TO ALL
Who hold Commonwealth or State Securities
to
CONVERT THEIR
HOLDINGS NOW.
Applications should be accompanied by the
Securities unless held by a Bank or Savings
Bank. Where the above rates do not exactly
represent a reduction of 22\ per cent., the
difference will be adjusted by increasing or
decreasing the amount of new securities so as
to give the holder the equivalent of a reduction
of 22\ per cent, up to the date of maturity of
his existing security, and according to the class
of the new security issued, 4 per cent., 3f per
cent, or 3 per cent, thereafter up to the date of
maturity of the new security. The new Securi-
ties will be issued in the form of Australian
Consolidated Inscribed Stock or Australian Con-
solidated Treasury Bonds, as desired.
Those wishing to dissent must do so in writing,
identifying the securities, within 2 1 days from
the opening of the Loan.
Apply any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stock Exchange.
The National Appeal Executive Urges
All to Convert at Once
J. H. SCULLIN,
Prime Minister.
J. A. LYONS,
Leader of the
Opposition.
ROBERT GIBSON,
Chairman of Directors of
the Commonwealth Bank-


iiiiniimimiii
iiiiiiiiimimiii
I f'MI
1
iiiiiiiimmiiiiimiiYiimiiiiimmmmi
IIIIIIIIIIMI!lllillMII!llllllllllllllllllli!lll
LONDON
zans™
fsd
L*ll|
mBU WIN
W
•1:1
•1
i
CONSISTENT COMFORT
GENEROUS CATERING
ATTENTIVE SERVICE
EXTENSIVE DECKS
F ROM
f
PLUS EXCHANGE
ORMONDE AND ORSOVA
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY
ORSOVA October lOth.
ORMONDE— January 2nd.
ORSOVA
March 16th.
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Wellington (M.L.) zephyr joyfully
played the deuce the other day in a job-
printing office. The printer’s devil was carry-
ing an armful of pawnbroker’s tickets from
the cutting-room, when the breeze lifted a
score of them and deposited them in the
gutter a couple of blocks away. One Peggs.
a funny man, saw them, took them home, and.
HARRY RICKARDS, of
the Tivoli, 9/6/’88.
in a fit of in-
spiration. filled
them all in
with prominent
name s, and
then carefully
dropped them
one by one in
likely places
—one s in the
bar of a swell
barmaid, an-
o. th e r in a ,
tramcar, -; one -
or two in. a
trig' club,' some
iii church, and
others . at - a
jam - tart
“small and
early.” And
now the upper-
crust has any
amount of
small • scandal
to amuse after-
noon - tea - ers
with, and the
Dc Joneses
firmly believe
that the De Browns are so-low down as
to have to pawn their silver spoons.
There was a crowd round the polling-booth
at Cobar (N.S.W.) on. election day, and
the accustomed Freetrade.. stump-orator was
in their midst. His mission hg said, was to.
'“pint out” to the people the -evils, which fol-
lowed in the footprints of Protection, and he
was doing it. “Look hat Lleurope!” he said,
waving his two arms and his one old hat in
the air. “Look hat Heurope! There Hing-
land follows the glorious policy hof Free-
trade, while France is ground down to the
dust hunder the hidjus load hof Purtection,
hand the consekenses to that country is haw-
ful. Look hat”' but just here a sinful per-
son stood up to offer a short remark. “Look
here, you blessed old dog-show;” he yelped
excitedly, “you were never in England or
France either. You never read anything
about them. You don’t know where they are.
You don’t know anything, you don’t. You
were never out of Sydney in all your blessed
life till you came here.” There was a shriek
of derisive laughter from the crowd, but the
orator was calm and collected. “No, sir,” he
said sternly, “I never was much of a reader,
and I never ’ad time to go to Hingland, or
France, either. But my father was a Hinglish-
man, and I got my facks from the best
authority. Gentlemen, for more than three
months I lived next door to a French-polisher
in Sydney, and he told me. [lB/4/’B9.]
The Hon. Fergus, Minister for Defence
and Warlike Ammunition in the New Zealand
Cabinet, has hitherto been celebrated as
a massive citizen whose proportions would
have made a rhinoceros sing soft and very
low, and whose beard was the biggest ever
seen outside a goat farm, and the other
thing he was celebrated for was a deafen-
ing bass roar acquired in the days
when he used to flog the Scriptures in
the pulpit and holler at the worst of sinners.
He was celebrated for these things, but they'
have all faded away. There, was a Cabinet.
meeting the other day, and all the Ministers
were present . 'except ; Fergus,', when the door
opened, and there crept in a long, drawn-
out. smooth-faced, tallow-visaged male with
the smile of a sick sheep and the depreca-
tory air of a freshly-kicked book-agent, who
made an ordinary remark about the weather
in two puffs and an almost inaudible wheeze.
The Government sat up suddenly at this
interruption and took its feet off the table,
and Sir Harry Atkinson glared and Sniffed
violently. “Who the Slieol are you, sir?”
hollered the Premier, in that thunderous
voice which he acquired while “shooing” the
bullock among the rocky hills. “This is a
.Cabinet meeting! Gerrout! Fisher, put
that loose-jointed canvasser into the street!”
Fisher rose to obey, when the vision
wheezed faintly like a pair of bellows in an
undertone: “Don’t you know me, Sir Harry?
I’m Fergus.” “Why the what’s the
where holy Moses! What’s happened
to your beard and voice?” “I’ve shaved.
Sir Harry, and I’ve caught a cold.”
“Shaved' Sh-a-ve-d-d! By jingo you have.
I ook at him' Just look at him!” And then
the old statesman dashed his head down
on the table and groaned. “Shaved!
Thunder and lightning! I took you into
the Ministry solely for your appearance
•md voice Now both have gone. You’ve
ruined your political career. Richardson
and me are such ugly beggars, so are they
all B u t. you sir, by gad, you were a
beauty and now! It’s cruel.” And
while the old politician mingled tears with
awful profanity, little Richardson, Minister
for Lands—whose innate cvnicism has been
enhanced by wrestling with 2(1 different
Land Acts, each of which contradicts all
tlie others—got up in a buff and said
oruffly • “I may be ugly and I haven’t got
much hair to speak of, lint looking at Fergus
satisfies me that old Fuller was about, right
when he wrote- ‘Beard was never the true
standard of brains.’” [23/2/’B9.]
Sydney sassiety has a .strange habit
[writes 'Sappho Smith] of periodically in-
attiring, with suppressed ferocity, into the
absurdity of following foggy London
“styles”' in a land where the mercury is
nearly always hanging outside the thermo-
meter with a fan. ” Of course it is foolish
to se’e our “protectors” going round in
Scotch tweed and “nail kegs” when a
veil and palm-leaf seem to be:the only things
a melting community could stagger under;
a nd the idea of our being encompassed about
by whalebone from morn till morn again,
not to mention the deadly hag filled with
lead and wool (apparently) which our
unhygienic frock-builder calls an “improver,”
and places in the small of our back all
seasons alike, where it rests like a dab of
fire upon our very spinal cord—instead of
our adopting loose, night-dressy sort of
robes without corsets or fiery pad or any
thing uncomfortable or English—simply
points the moral that we don’t know enough
to come in out of the wet when our eyes
are fixed on tin- fashion plates of the “Big
Smoke.” And, moreover, I feel convinced
that no undress reformation will ever event-
uate while the temporary tenants of Gov
eminent House walk abroad in tweed and
whalebone respectively. Sassiety follows
them like sheep. Therefore, if Lord Car
nngton stepped gladly out some warm day
simply and thrillingly attired in his—ahem:
pyjamas, and if “Her Excellency” received
Sydney publicanesses and their companions
in a sort of glorified robe de unit, the bond
of Fall Mall would fall off from our .spindle-
shanked dudes and hourglass-waisted dam
sels, and everybody would come- flopping out
in whatever seemed to them most adapted
to a region where occasionally there seemetli
only to be a layer, of tissue-paper between
it and a place which would make Darling
Point swoon if I only mentioned it.
[4/8/’B9.]
AFTER THE SCIENCE LECTURE.
Enjoyed it ? Indeed to the fullest immensity !
Waves of dread wonder surged over my
soul.
I'd never met joy’s overwhelming intensity
Till hearing of what’s-this surrounding
the Pole;
And what -ye - may - call - ’ems —the things
astronomical,
The gigantic lizard, the wliat-was-his-
name,
And Pliocene mummies that squinted so
comical—
’Twas utterly splendid. I’m so glad I
came.
I’m so fond of science and dote on geology,
Epochs and glaciers ever so big:
I’ve bought a new book, “Dr. Gray on
Oonchology,”
Which tells of the wonderful thing-a-me-pg.
L'd like to be wise and discover a dactyl,
Or go out and hunt for those fishes with
wings:
I’d search and I wouldn’t give up or come
back till
I’d found a nice fragment of whatnire-
those-'tliings.
Those Mega—you know —what he called
Palaeozoic.
How horrid they are, what a size they
must grow!
The man who could capture one must be
heroic,
Because "twould be awfully daug’rous, you
know.
These lectures arouse transcendental thought-
blisses
And make one feel learned and wondrously
sage;
Do call to-morrow —we'll talk of the wliat’s-
thises
Floating through space in the what’s-’er-
name age.
W. A. S.


HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
The Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp” (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable from all hotels and, licensed
stores specialising in the distribution
of the higher grades of wines.
xm
ir
m
xlh
■
tel 41
ft
Kffi
-
IWMM
HI
ife
'■
m
h
m
mm
m
I
BH
F£
Sv
f-.i :i .->• ■•".
T\tara
’ -m ■».* ■£- «i
. ■ •-
■ .;■:
PL A *PI0N RESERVE
4 POKT
OmM bOUtMIO
- ! -7 i
-3^
na
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA
PROVIDE FOR
YOUR FUTURE
m
bks
? ¥
mm
GOLD
and
TIMBER
are now
VALUABLE
ID
GOLD is where
you FIND IT
BUT
TIMBER
CAN BE
GROWN
ID
You can share
in the wealth
from Timber .
Plantations grown and maintained by South
Australian Perpetual Forests Limited.
years old. Circumference 21 inches.
NEW ISSUE OF FORESTRY BONDS
SHOWING EARLY RETURNS TO BONDHOLDERS
Secw ity Handsome Profits
Write and obtain particulars of how you can
obtain a share in a Forest already partly grown.
South Australian Perpetual Forests Limited
BOWMAN BUILDINGS. KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Victorian Office: Eastern Telegraph House, 341 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Last Round.
OSMAR E. WHITE'S STRANGE STORY SHOWING HOW THE THRILL
Of ADVENTURE GETS INTO SOME PEOPLE'S BONES.
FIRST and last, many remarkable stories,
some of them even verging upon the
fantastic, have been related as incidents
in the career of the prospector John
Buchanan. I have been informed on com-
paratively reliable authority that, in the
fifteen years preceding his purchase of a
beach store at Sumai Point from Ilughie Sa,
a Chinese, he had been in turn a grocer's
assistant, a stevedore, a stoker, a miner, a
barman, a farm-hand and Heaven only knows
what else beside; that he knew Valparaiso
and Saigon as well as he knew Melbourne.
But, however deep the wanderlust was
grained in him, the fact remains that from
the day he resigned from the management of
a plantation at Samarai he never left New
Guinea, even for the briefest of leave. Nor,
for that matter, have I ever struck anyone
who remembers him having expressed a wish
to do so.
Just how much fiction has been told con-
cerning the man I have no means of telling;
hut I do know this most certainly—no one
has yet given me a version of the Koromiki
affair which agrees with the facts in my
possession. Yet, rather than construct a
conventional narrative of the available
material (and consequently distort its true
perspective with imaginative reconstruc-
tions), I have decided to present, in
sequence, certain letters received from my
nephew, Eric Raleigh, who wrote them when
he was attached to the Government station
at Boaimai, on the Sepik River. These,
which form what is really the body of a very
strange and tragic story, I have supple-
mented by the texts of a memorandum to
Arthur Carslake, district officer, and of a
note received by my nephew from Amos
Philpots, a research student in ethnology at
Rabaul.
The. only deletions I have made from this
material are references and information of
a purely personal nature, of no interest to
the public and having nothing whatever to
do with Buchanan’s history.
* * * *
Memo, from the Acting Administrator of
the Territory to Arthur Carslake, district
officer, Boaimai.
In reference to the application No. 46/7,
James C. Buchanan, for permit to enter un-
controlled territory in Division B, Mapopo
River district.
Mr. .T. C. Buchanan is favorably known
to many Government officers on the south
coast and in New Britain. For some years
he has made periodical prospecting expedi-
tions into the interior. Full inquiry shows
him to be a man of wide experience with
all classes of natives. From time to time he
has been able to give us most valuable infor-
mation regarding the topography and in-
habitants of hitherto unexplored country. I
should be glad, therefore, if you will issue
him the required permit and assist his
expedition in any way possible.
Letters received from Mr. Eric Rdleigli,
cadet, Administration Service, M.T.N.G., by
myself.
Boaimai, June 12, 19 —
Dear Uncle Tom, —Maybe, in the dim and
distant past, you were stationed at this
ghastly hole. But I doubt it. Magistrate-
wallahs never have pasts.
There is only one thing which delays my
sending in a resignation as a result of the
transfer and that is Arthur Carslake, the
D. 0., is the stoutest fellow I have yet struck
in the service. It; is true that he has been
on the river for ten years now ; so why he
should be decent God only knows. They used
to tell me over Talasea w T ay that after five
years on the Sepik a man was either dead
or ratty. The idea seems to have some sort
of basis in truth. Not that the station
itself is too bad, being built on high ground ;
and my quarters are quite moderately com-
fortable. It's the atmosphere of the place
which has, somehow, got on my spine. For
one thing, it is so utterly lonely and drab
that Talasea seems in comparison a roaring
beehive of social diversions.
To understand just what I mean, you
should be here at mid-day, when the morn-
ing clouds have gone over. Yesterday I
borrowed A.C.’s umbrella and climbed to
the top of Pilot House Hill, which over-
looks about thirty miles of the district. All
there was to be seen was nipa and grey
gum and sago, with the muddy river snaking
through it. I could have cursed out loud
and addressed it personally,. I don’t think
I ever quite realised just what you meant
by “the great, dark land” before I came
here.
The root of the matter lies, I suppose, in
the fact that I haven’t quite recovered after
the trip up-river from Marienberg. Four
hundred miles of sac-sac and sac-sac coons
would seep through the hide of even an
old-timer.
Although the niggers in our immediate
vicinity are fair enough specimens, the bush-
men are about the most miserable and un- v
pleasant blighters I have ever set eyes on.
Up-river they are even worse. Carslake.
however, has a theory that there are several
very advanced tribes living up in the foot-
hills of the Bismarcks. ‘So far it is merely
a theory based on rumors and stuff which
comes downstream in flood-time. Carslake
is a terribly scientific johnny, you know. I
guess it is all the anthropology he has soaked
up from textbooks which has poisoned the
bats in the belfry. H'e and Amos Philpots
would get on well together. I saw Amos
not long before I came up, and he swore
he’d give ten years of his life for a chance
to look at the Upper Sepik. Every man has
his tastes.
Speaking of the Bismarcks. When it's
a fine day, we can see the snow 7 on the
higher peaks quite plainly. Lord, but it
must be wonderful country out there! Mt.
Nils Pheister is in clear sight—reputed to
be over the IS,OOO-foot mark. It’s almost
fascinating to contemplate it when you
remember that no one has ever been able to
check up on the first estimate. I often go
out on to the verandah and look at it. when,
the air in the office is too hot to breathe.
One day Carslake caught me gazing and
asked what I was thinking about. I said:
Tee cream . And he laughed like blazes,
He knows, better than I can imagine, what
lies between Boaimai and ice-cream in the
Bismarcks. I m rather looking forward to
my first patrol in the Dobura territory.
However, if this note is to go out by the
► trickland, Id better knock off. By the
L.Aw r'rT" r n™-; s 'z.T'Vlr
devil. I don’t know yot whither* I like l,i,n
or whether I don't.—Affectionately, Bin.
Boaimai Aug 12
Dear Uncle Tom,— Sure, that’s Jimmy
Buchanan! Your adjective “famous,” I
take it, is applied in the local sense. I'd not.
previou'sly heard of him; or. if I had, didn’t
remember. In any case J.B. isn’t much to
look at, whatever may have been his record,
So completely insignificant is lie in the
physical sense that one finds it rather hard
to describe him offhand. Moreover, vour
tip—“ Get. him to talk”—is a darn sight
easier to give than to take.
I first met him directly after lie had come
off the Strickland. He’d brought half a
dozen Atabe boys with him who were strug-
gling with an elephant-load of pickaxes,
packing-cases and what not, and whom he
was cursing feebly and monotonously. To
my mind he was rather like a voluble topee
stuck on a length of nobby kunda. When I
got closer I saw that, he was a mere brown
bag of bones and that the skin of his face
was very badly pitted by smallpox. He stag-
gored a little when he tried to carry a couple
of moderate-sized suitcases; and his eyes
are just about the color of a newly-born
kitten’s.
The boss and he had a devil of a row
about that U.T. permit. It appears that
Carslake didn’t think he looked good for a
journey into the back country, and refused to
sign on the dotted line on the ground that
his equipment was insufficient. Carslake
is like that. Nine out of ten D.O.’s would
let a man commit suicide in that way if he
wanted to and be damned to him. Any fool
can see that J.B. is so rotten with recurring
fever that he wouldn’t last a month out in
the swamps.
Buchanan, however, said in his slow,
apologetic way that he reckoned he knew his
own business best; and wrote out to some
Administration wallah. The-Power-that-Is
replied by the Marienberg patrol to the
effect that the boss was to min'd his own
blanky business and issue Buchanan a per-
mit and anything else that ho wanted. Since
then things have been a bit strained between
them—Carslakc and J. 8., I mean,
Though I’m all with the boss, I can’t
help admiring the other fellow. Still, to
plan a trip right up to the Bismarcks in
the state of health Buchanan is in shows
that the man has more guts than common-
sense. Nevertheless, I like him. I liked
him even before I learned something of his
history—both directly and from Carslakc.
Carslake knew him at Samarai in the
da ys before the Edie Creek rush. He’d been
managing a big plantation for Burns, Philp
an( j saved enough out of his salary to buy a
beach store. Instead of running it himself
a nd making the thing pay properly, lie
hired a heathen Kong Kong man for manager
and has been using every penny of the profits
evor since in outfitting expeditions.
"*“• *
mere ha 1 „ < Ipe .
Carslake swears Buchanan knew Edie and
the Wan country long before any of the
other fellows and that it was only by the
w ! )rst Possible luck he wasn t on the spot
vdicp,the big strike was made. lied been
fossicking in the hinterland behind the
Tellow Liver. All he got out of it was a
frightful dose ot blackwater fever and a
septic foot.
Then, for the best part of a year, he was
in the mission hospital, suffering the agonies
of the damned because he had threatened,
very calmly and seriously, to blow the head
°ff an y doctor who amputated his foot,
Of course, when he could hobble round
a S a i n < everything worth while on the fields
hud been snapped up.
“Greed is a terrible thing, young feller,”
the boss said to me—whether seriously or
not, I’ve never discovered. “I’ve known that
cove Buchanan to be rotten witn
yaws, smallpox, dengue and bush-ulcers. I’ve
known him to live like a dog, work like a
coolie, sweat, grovel to niggers, stew in filth,
What for? For the love of money and what
it can buy. Nothing more—nothing else,
Now he's going out into Koromiki after the
yellow muck lie’s dedicated his life to —
and God knows what will happen to him.”
To tell you the truth I was a bit hazy
about Koromiki, so I borrowed an ordnance
niap from the M.O. and found it was the
blank spot, between the Mapopo River and
the main stream. I asked Pills what he
knew about, it and he said, “Just about as
muc i, a s you’re likelv to know of Heaven
young feller. But I wouldn’t like to have
the job of patching up that damned fool
(Continued on next page.)


A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* # *
Fou can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
Che Brisbane Courier.
Xhe Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
BOBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents - H. C. CJRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
alemite
sdf
Excessive Friction
Ruins Machinery
Many thousands of pounds can be
saved yearly by eliminating excessive
friction—by keeping bearings of all
kinds free from abrasive matter.
Eliminate this cause of friction from
bearings by using the ALEMITE
Systems of Lubrication, which force
into the bearings, under pressure of
3000 lbs., fresh, clean lubricant—forcing out at the same
time, the worn-out lubricant.
Proper lubrication has become one of the greatest means
of reducing maintenance expense.
ALEMITE CORPORATION « Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR- KENNETH 1* G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Lt'd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd,, 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED . . . . . 122 Pirie Street,, Adelaide'
sdf
K-AUST-2
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Buchanan three months from to-day. It’ll
be a job for a sewing-machine and a sculp-
tor!”
Buchanan himself was sitting on the
verandah when I went out, watching the
snows. His kitten-blue eyes were all dreamy
and he haj'dly heard me when I spoke to
him.
(( ‘‘Oh, hullo, Raleigh,” he said, starting.
"Didn’t notice you. What were you saying?”
I had said it was a blasted hot afternoon
and repeated it. Somehow or other, we got
to talking. He told me what fun he’d had
beach-combing down Apa Levu way, before
he came north. Chasing the rainbow, he
called it.
I remembered what the boss had said and
asked, “What if Koromiki turns out to be
another Edie, Mr. Buchanan? What will
you do?”
He seemed almost startled and commenced
running his fingers through his faded, car-
roty hair. “What’ll I do?” he asked. “How
do you mean?”
“Well,” I said, “I mean—er —what will
you do?”
He grinned, showing his broken, crumbly
teeth. “Oh, I hadn’t thought much about
it, to tell you the truth. I’ll go south, I
suppose, like other fellows and have a bit of
a bender. I wouldn’t mind settling down
Rabaul way at a plhce I know. And I’ve
always wanted to have a look at the Fly.”
That startled me. In my experience there
are few of you old-timers who do not curse
the day you first saw a sago palm and pray
every night that some miracle’ll happen and
let you retire in comfort at the North Pole.
Maybe, in time, I’ll come round to that
point of view myself.
Anyway, I asked Buchanan why he didn’t
want to leave the islands. He just shook
his head, looked at me for a minute, and
grinned wistfully.
“Between you and me and the doorpost,
young Raleigh,” he said, leaning nearer, “I’m
not certain that I could leave, even if I
wanted to. Had you ever thought”—his
bony hand shot out towards the mysterious
mountains —“that one day they might get
you, eh?”
A minute or so later he rose pretty
abruptly and went off inside.
Do you know, I’ve come to the conclusion
that if a bucketful of gold-dust could be
swapped for a pound of taro to-morrow,
J.B. would still go off into the sac-sac look-
ing for quartz-pebbles! He may be the son
of a Camden Town barber, but he’s the kind
of pukka sahib who—well, gets things done.
Don’t let Aunt Am'y....—As ever, Bin.
Extract from a letter headed Boaimai,
August 30.
j.B. left for Dobura yesterday with
twenty carriers. H'e and the boss had a
long chinwag in the office, while Li-er, the
new boss-boy, was lading the whalers which
will take them up as far as the first broken
water.
The send-off was a morbid sort of func-
tion. The M.O. and Carslake were just
hanging around looking disgusted and help-
less, and Buchanan was doing his damnedest
to crack hardy. He’s been terribly afraid
this last week that he wouldn’t be able to
get away when he had planned. He’s just
got over a most frightful dose of fever, and
has as much strength as an underfed magpie.
Oh, I don’t know.. . .
You remember me telling you the queer
way J.B. shot out his hand and said, “Have
you ever thought they might get you?’ ’
Well, what I heard him say to the chief
when I went into the office to wish him luck
is relevant.
“Definitely,” he was saying, “this is the
last round, Carslake. You’ve been here long
enough to realise what I mean. For more
than ten years now the Territory has been
saying to us mining fellows. ‘Come in and
win—if you can !’ We came in. Some won.
Some didn’t. Until now I’ve managed to
keep my pins in the face of a hard knock
or two, mainly because I started from no-
where and success has been more important
to me than to many of the others. When
I say it is the last round. I mean it., for
I’m going with the full knowledge that this
time the little gods who manage such things
are going either to pat me on the back or
to hand over the knock-out drops. Funny
how an idea like that gets into your head,
isn’t it?”
Carslake was looking a bit uncomfortable.
It was clear that he thought Buchanan a
bit ratty and that he was being patient about
it —not being able to step in officially on
account of what the Administration had
said.
After J.B. had gone I went to the top of
the hill and watched the sun setting over
the Maporpo spurs. Here and there the
clouds were breaking, and I could see little
patches of light shining pinkly on the high
ranges. It was very beautiful. And very
remote.
Boaimai, April 27.
Dear Uncle Tom, —Tell Joan that I was
mighty sorry I couldn’t keep my promise
about writing her by the Montrose I*. The
fact is, things have been stirring lately and
I had to go up to Dobura with a patrol after
Jimmy Buchanan and his carriers. You’ll
remember I wrote you last year about his
expedition into Koromiki.
I don’t think Carslake was very much
surprised when the news came through that
the up-country niggers had attacked the
party. Its coming was, by the way, my first
actual experience of bush telegraph. The
M.O.’s cookboy came in one morning with
a rum yarn about a dim-dim (white man)
who was plenty-sick-feller in a village off
the Apawau branch. That’s nearly a hun-
dred and fifty miles away from here. Since
no canoes had come down-stream for over
a fortnight; I was inclined to think the cook-
boy was a liar; but the boss told me that
when information of the sort comes through
a man can usually gamble on it being accu-
rate and.-save himself the trouble of making
inquiries as to the source.
There were fifteen of us in the party all
told —Carslake, the M.O. and myself, and
the rest police-boys under Sergeant Jilly.
The trip took the best part of fifteen days,
because every couple of hours or so we were
dead certain' to run into a mudbank and
warp off, man-power, while the sergeant took
pot shots at too-inquisitive crocodiles with
an old .44. I guess one patrol of the sort
is enough to cure any man of a wild hanker-
ing to go into uncontrolled territory. Why,
I’d always thought that the river was pretty
bad from Marienberg up !
Anyway, you probably know all about it.
At Dobura the luluai (village interpreter
and chief) told us that the dim-dim in ques-
tion was supposed to be hiding in a Samasu
village. We left the cutter and made off
across country to save time. It was about
one degree worse than standing up to your
neck iu stinking water, hauling on a hawse-
line. If we hadn't roped in the Dobura
luluai as guide I very much doubt that we
would ever have got through, or for that
matter got back. The entire terrain between
the tributary and the main stream is no-
thing but swamp and wild-pig run, and
nicely prepared with mantraps lined with
fire-hardened bamboo. Och aye!—as the
Scotch missionary said —what can ye expect
of a mere heathen?
It. turned out that Buchanan had taken
shelter in a Kangaroo clan village on the
left bank of the Apawau. Fortunately—or
perhaps unfortunately—for him the villagers
were at violent loggerheads with the Cocka-
too and Flying Fox clans on the right bank.
We had a bit of fun with the Flying Fox
people ourselves. Apparently they had never
heard of Big Feller Guv’ment, and didn’t
want to. Also, they were in need of archery
practice, as the Kangaroos had become very
circumspect. But Sergeant Jilly sneaked up
one night with a stick of dynamite—lighted
fuse and detonator attached. He chucked it
over the village gate and ran hell-for-leather.
After that they left us strictly alone. When
we went into the village to make inquiries
they had all gone bush.
To return to the point. The Kangaroo
people themselves weren’t too friendly, and
I doubt that they would have sheltered
Buchanan at all if it hadn’t been for the
fact that the Cockatoo elders had come over
and demanded his head for their manhouse.
We found the poor devil lying in an other-
wise unoccupied tree-hut, on a grass mat,
and with a tappa blanket pegged over him.
He was raving with fever, and there was
a shocking wound in his thigh which had
been made apparently by an arrow. God
only knows how there had been enough
strength in him to enable him to last until
we got there. Surely a pretty frightful
business all round!
The boys got him back to the cutter on
a stretcher made of two poles and the tappa
blanket. The M.O. did his best, but it was
a hopeless job from the outset.
The boss was raving mad about the arrows
wound, and threatened to chuck in his job
there and then just for the pleasure of blow-
ing hell out of the Cockatoo people with
dynamite. However, the old Samasu war-
chief swore blind that it was the Kirikori
people who had made finish of the dim-dim;
he took us down to the canoe bay, where
he produced the dugout in which Buchanan
had come down-stream. The remains of
some personal gear were in it, and one
thwart was stuck so full of arrow-shafts
that it looked like a pincushion. There
were empty Snider shells in the bottom which
the Samasus had been afraid to touch. The
remarkable and significant part of the busi-
ness is that I never remember having seen
a dugout of similar design before, and the
shafts are of redwood tipped with stone.
Buchanan was unconscious most of the
time, but he regained his senses for a little
while, just before he died. Carslake and
I were with him. He knew he was done
for, poor beggar, but he didn’t seem much
upset about it- —just grimly amused. He
smiled up with those kitten-blue eyes of his
and'motioned the boss to lean nearer. His
voice was so weak that we barely caught
the Words.
“Koromiki-•. .wash-out. All volcanic. Did
....you get my notebook?”
We hadn’t, but Carslake said “Yes.”
He grinned a bit at that and said, “Most
important, really. Interesting country, eh?
But.,. .for me... .a wash-out. I guess it’s
the K. 0., after all, Carslake. Do you
remember? Koromiki.... just interesting.”
Nothing more. An hour or so later he
died. I've a sort of idea he died satisfied.
When it was over Carslake looked up at
me, steady as a rock, and said, “The last
round, young Raleigh.”
I’d often thought of that when I’d seen
the river all swollen and yellow with flood
water. When I went out and saw the hills
above Dobura, rising almighty into the sky,
I realised that the game was greater than
the player, and I knew why Buchanan wasn’t
worried.
By the way, I’m sending those arrows
from Koromiki down to old Philpots. The
workmanship is particularly fine, and the
stone barbs are beauties.
If you see Jack Thomas before he goes
out on leave.. . . —Your affectionate nephew,
Bin.
Text of a letter received by Eric Raleigh
from Amos Philpots, research student in
ethnology.
Rabaul, June 2.
Dear Bin, —Many thanks for those arrows
I m forwarding them out by the Montoro for
report. If my own theory is considered rea-
sonable, it’s likely that I’ll be up your wav
with a bumboat and a tin-hat before long.
For the love of Mike don’t lose sight of
that canoe you brought back from Dobura!
If the sketch you made isn’t pure imagina-
tion I’ll warrant we’re on to something quit,-
new.
Now for the titbit. Something about
those arrowheads struck me as rummy I
took a couple of them down to old Ah Soon,
the Kong jeweller. He looked at them long
and carefully, and then started hopping
about like a dog with two tails. He swears
that they are chipped from pure white jade,
and that the quality of the stuff is as fine
as he’s ever clapped eyes on.
Maybe, young fellow, there’s going to be
more in our Koromiki trip than the mere
honor and glory of finding and classifying
another set of useless niggers.
But I’m in the very devil of a hurry Will
write you more by next schooner.—-Sincerely
Amos Philpots.
PS. —Very rough luck about Jimmy
Buchanan. Have you heard anything of bis
boys yet?
Blue Roses.
Such lovely things are in the air,
To-day, to-day.
Lying among the fragrant grass,
Far overhead I hear them pass
And turn again in delicate play.
No cloud, no mist,
But blue sunkist,
Bine of clear terraces from earth
Piled to the zenith’s peaks of mirth;
And all their slopes and sapphire vistas
Are thronged with choirs of ecstasy
Unseen by me,
And yet I dare
Be glad enough to listen and say,
Such lovely things are in the air
To-day, to-day.
Star-notes of poets’ nightingales,
Dream violins,
Patter of pearly water-spray,
Sighs of a joy too fine to stay,
Tinkle of ivory clavecins —
No wind, no breeze
I hear; yet these
Faint-hinted sounds of happiness
In harmonies I cannot guess
Blend w\th dear, strange, remembered
voices,
Sown flowers of song, at last unfurled
In another world.
So blest, even I.
From human clamor far apart,
Take music of the throbbing sky
Into my heart.
Along my sides, in both my hands,
Silkily soft
Midsummer grasses curl and rest
Rich-colored as a ringdove’s breast;
But holier beauties float aloft
In silent sweeps
Of azure deeps,
High calmness, so intense it brings
The stilly power of mighty wings
And the wide reaching clasp and shelter
Of arms imperishably strong
To hold off wrong.
Dry grasses wreathe
The sweetest scent old earth encloses;
But from Heaven’s glorious blue I breathe
Breath of blue roses.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE


The Veil of Ignorance is Li
WHICH ROAD WILL
YOU TAKE?
SAFE COUNSEL?
or Ignorance—
the Greatest Sin
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in
bitter tears and years of regret? Must millions of homes be
ruined—marriages totter to the brink of divorce? YES—just
as long as men and women remain ignorant of the simple
facts of life.
The Greatest Sin of all is total IGNORANCE of the most
important subjects in the life of every man and woman.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of life fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically.
Let us tear the veil of shame and mystery from life and build the future of
the race on a new knowledge of all the facts of life as they are laid bare
in plain, wholesome words and frank pictures in the huge new book—
“SAFE COUNSEL”
512 Pages—Over 100 Illustrations,
Thie'volume abounds in truthful illustrations and pictures of scientific interest
that one seldom, if ever, finds outside of the highly-technical medical books
which laymen fail to understand. Every picture is true to life.
IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED,
CAN YOU ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS?
ARE YOU FIT TO MARRY?
DO YOU KNOW HOW TO CHOOSE A MATE?
DO YOU WISH YOUR MARRIAGE TO BE HAPPY?
DO YOU KNOW THE PERILS OF BEING UNPREPARED?
“SAFE COUNSEL” answers all these questions—and more!
Many a marriage has been wrecked on the shoals of ignorance. Many a
beautiful love has been killed by carelessness and a lack of frankness.
Are you going to take the chance that your marriage will be one of the
unhappy ones?
This book contains good, sound advice to those contemplating matrimony
and those already married. It tells you how to prepare for marriage, and
how to insure your future happiness. Intimate details of a successful
wedded life are fully explained.
"SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.;
Dr. Emma F. A. Drake, M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
Contains 512 Pages of Secrets—FOß MEN AND WOMEN.
i
fcy
£
“Safe Counsel”
only
Costs £l,
but
is
.
worth
a fortune.
MEN!
“SAFE COUNSEL” enters the sanctuary of, the most sacred
phases of your inner life. It grips you with suggestions that are
personal and confidential. It furnishes definite arid practical
information on Vital subjects, pure in themselves, that are frequently
surrounded with vulgar mystery.
The problems of men frequently assume tremendous importance.
They often become the source of worries that ultimately assume
a tragical nature. And the need for the answer to the query*
“What shall I do?” often grips the victim with terrifying intensity.
It is well, therefore, that conditions and problems of this sort
should be clearly and emphatically presented, for the outcome may
mean success or failure, health or disease, or even life or death.
This book solves practically and definitely some' Of the most
tremendously vital problems that confront the manhood of to-ejay.
It talks plainly. It conveys invaluable body-developing, mind and
moral-building, life-saving truth. It will enlighten you as no other'
book has ever done on these important vital topics. It goes right
at the “heart” of the needs of men of to-day. Whether married
or single, you will find this book a proverbial goldmine in informa-
tion that is needed every day of your life.
WOMEN!
Upon marriage is based the home, and the home is the
foundation of the nations. But, like all other great institutions
devised by Nature for the good and protection of the human race,
it is subject to a well-defined set of natural laws that must be
obeyed. Therein lies the whole secret of happy or unhappy marriage.
Until recently there was some excuse for women marrying with
no knowledge of the responsibilities of wifehood, because a vulgar
prudery has thrown a dense black wall of ignorance around every-
thing having to do with marriages—a wall that kept girls and
young women from learning before marriage the things that every
woman must know in order to intelligently become the wife of the
man she loves and the mother of beautiful healthy children.
Ignorance is no longer excusable. Four famous doctors have
written a wonderful book for the everlasting good of womanhood,
entitled “Safe Counsel,” which is now available to every girl and
woman, married or single, who sincerely wishes to make her
marriage, her home and her children so ideally perfect that
there is nothing left to be desired.
DON’T DEL A TO-DAY.
Save time by filling in this form and posting it together with
money order, cheque, bank note or postal note for £l.
NEW ZEALAND READERS and those in British Possessions and
Colonies, send your own bank note by registered mail, if possible.
EVERYTHING A WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
How to hold a husband; how to preserve youth;
warding off other women; keeping yourself
attractive; why husbands tire of wives; dreadful
diseases due to ignorance; diseases of children:
family health guide; change of life—hygiene;
why children die young; inherited traits and dis-
eases; what will you tell your growing girl?;
hundreds of valuable remedies.
SECRETS FOR MEN
Mistakes of early marriages; secrets of fascina-
tion; bringing up healthy children; fevers and
contagious diseases; accidents and emergencies;
hygiene in the home; how to care for invalids;
warning to young men; dangerous diseases;
anatomy and phrysiology; the reproductive
organs; education of the family.
GIRLS, DO NOT MARRY BEFORE
YOU READ “SAFE COUNSEL”
It will save you from Life’s pitfalls and disasters.
ONLY OBTAINABLE FROM THE SOLE DISTRIBUTORS,
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.,
SEND FOR CATALOG OF UNUSUAL BOOKS. 22s put st„ Sydney.
Mail Address: Bos 38, G.P.0.,
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD,,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS.
v \
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
sdfsdfsd
r»
o
4*
0°
€
s 6
/S®
a-
' .• ’ * •* * V|o'° ! V*
-••■'' •••*■ <s*P
*>” v* *


I
B
i
1
I
I
I
5s
I
nrr.
I
i
i
I
i
The
Quality
Tyre-
within
the reach
of all
WHEN you first see a Pathfinder Tyre you will be
impressed by the fact that its other name is
Goodyear a guarantee of quality.
Strength, toughness and traction are written all over' the
sturdy Pathfinder tread and sidewalls.
In addition there is built into every Pathfinder carcass
the extra life-giving qualities of that famous Goodyear
cord material Supertwist.
And Pathfinder prices are so low that Goodyear dealers
everywhere ar£ featuring them.
THE
sf
by
GOOD
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
The New Pathfinder was introduced by Goodyear to meet the
existing need tor more economical motoring, and since its quality
is guaranteed by Goodyear, you can be sure there is no other tyre
which will give you such real value for the same low initial cost
P.C.M 5
