

THE
NEW FAMILY INCOME
Policy
The latest and most important development of Life Assurance Protection
for the family. It provides a regular Monthly Income for dependents during
the years it is most needed.
WHAT £lOOO LOOKS LIKE
TO THE AVERAGE WIDOW
3/3 a day
What it
actually
amounts
to
IF
safely
invested
at 6°)o
In the event of death of the assured within a selected period, a Monthly Income at the rate
of I 5 per cent, per annum of the Sum Assured will be paid until the expiration of that period,
and the Sum Assured will then be handed over in full to the Assured s Representatives.
Enquire for Leaflets giving full explanation of Benefits,
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Ltd.
(THE “M.L.C.”)
CASTLEREAGH STREET AND MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000.
The Bulletin
(ftB
Vol. 52.—N0. 2698.
Wednesday, October 28, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
Storti Writing
VJ , at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ...........................
S.B. 231
Free
from
Pim-
ples !
%
a
What a relief it is to know that
your skin can be free of blemishes.
Anoint gently with Cuticura
Ointment, then wash off in a
few minutes with t lltieiira
Swap and warm water. A very
simple but satisfying treatment
of pimples!
The Cuticura Treatment has
been used for years in thousands
of homes throughout the world.
CUTICSJRA
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Ib. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, IN.S.W.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and ‘‘up-to-the-minute"
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the ‘‘N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Ansl ra lia n Representa five:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep -moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
lias been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rat.es on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
.Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLiWE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One* third of Queensland 9 s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
die (Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
$
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
die Brisbane (Courier.
She Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
h. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper Containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at. home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA!
AS REGARDS TASMANIA, ADVER-
TISERS SHOULD UNHESITATINGLY
CHOOSE AS A MEDIUM
Clk mercury
Tasmania's Leading Newspaper
The only daily published in the South.
In Tasmania it is the National News-
paper and stands out on a unique
position of commanding power and
popularity.
Published at Hobart, the Capital, it
serves over half of Tasmania's popu-
lation exclusively and circulates in
every corner of the State. The circu-
lation of "The Mercury" exceeds the
combined figures of the Dailies in
Tasmania.
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD-,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
household paces
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES'
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD
„ Etc. Etc. etc.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES GB
&
V
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street*
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourr
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Grock
Life’s a Lark (Hoinemann; Bs. 6d.) is
the autobiography of Grock, the most cele-
brated clown since Grimaldi. The English
have never been eircusgoers in the sense
that Continentals are, and with the passing
of pantomime harlequinades they were be-
ginning to class clowns with Lions Gomiques.
Then Grock came to London and made a
hit at the Coliseum, and he has been popu-
lar there ever since. His only failure
seems to have been in New York. He was
bom in the Bernese Oberland, decided to
become a clown as a small boy, and never
wavered in his ambition. Ho has great
powers of concentration. Grock began with
Antonet. in- Marseilles:—
We worked for three solid months, putting in
15 hours per day, and frequently working through
the night as well.
He is a natural musician and acrobat.
However, the asset that has probably stood
to him as well as any is his enormous self-
esteem. No movie star has revealed such
complacence :
Berlin simply doesn’t know how to crack me up
sufficiently. The terrific Grock. ... Grock the
priceless, the inimitable, the incomparable, the devas-
tating. ... Grock the man of genius,
I have gone to the head of the whole of London.
....All London is thinking of me and nothing but
me....
In Saragossa an audience of 20,000. Success?
Aha —it needs a stronger word than that to
describe it.
The book may be funny in the original,
but the translator hasn’t been able to
Anglicise the German slang, and the results
are often painful. Still it is intensely inter-
esting, not for what- the author lias to say
about his business, but for the light he
casts unconsciously on his bizarre character.
Topical Fiction
The novel-reading world takes the some-
what, morbid interest in China that it does
in Russia; so writers who can speak from
personal knowledge of the mysterious
people on whom the destiny of our civili-
sation may depend have a ready-made
public. Bowyer Campbell is one of them.
His Far Trouble (Collins; 7s. 6d.) has a
weak beginning and a weaker end, but in
between are pictures of contemporary
peasant life in southern China which, though
they don’t explain the natives, do help
the reader to understand something of
their lives. Alec Wagram and Margaret
Barbour are kidnapped by bandits in Shang-
hai. The bandit captain is superstitious,
and takes them with him for luck. The
gang does well till some regulars materi-
alise, torture the captain till he confesses
where his loot is hidden (upon which he
is beheaded), and take over the foreigners.
The major:—
He had a little wisp of moustache, thin and
lascivious as an asp. His eyelids wei'e fat and his
cheekbones high. But his broad face was not
unkind if you rendered due homage to his personal
importance as an officer in one of China’s armies.
A burly fellow, sensual perhaps but not maliciously
brutal.
He has a field gun, which he doesn’t undei’-
stand, and Wagram, who is a soldier, saves
lace for him by firing it. The major’s men
are retreating and looting, and the whites
accompany them till they get a chance to
escape. They disguise themselves as
monks in a temple, and spend the rest of
their wanderings in that, capacity. Mr.
Campbell can’t describe places, but he has
a marvellous eye for types. Bonzes, peas-
ants, fishermen, soldiers, children, women
young and old—all are etched swiftly, un-
forgettably. as they come into the story.
Their cruelties are recorded as unemotion-
ally as their superstitions and charming
courtesies, and in the sum they become like-
able as well as pitiable. This novel con-
firms an impression conveyed in “The Good
Earth,” reviewed by the Red Page some
weeks _ ago, that the cultural level of the
poor in the troubled regions of China
approximates to that of the peasants in
the cockpits of eighteenth-century Europe.
A “Sound Family”
Archibald Marshall’s The Appletons of
Herne (Collins; 7s. 6d.) is the kind of
novel the English do best. “In France,”
said Taine, “people do not look for types
among merchants.” The French ean’t
understand that a merchant should “love
his house as if he were a nobleman.” The
English can, and, though the founder may
not be deferred to, his descendants are cer-
tain to be, unless they revert to obscurity
by way of poverty. The Appletons kept
the money which had enabled the son of
an eighteenth-century innkeeper to fore-
close on Herne Hail; and added to it.
“Ours,” said a twentieth-century Appleton,
“is a sound family, my dear.” There you
have their secret. Old Joseph was resented,
as such men always
are. “Whom do
you think we have
as our new Neigh-
bors at Herne Hall,
in place of our
Friends, now re-
duced to Beggary?” inquired a Gault of
Langlade in a letter, and went on to sneer
at “this tradesman from London.” But
the sons went to universities and the
daughters were pretty. The county pre-
pared for the inevitable:—
Young- Mr. Appleton came of age last week and
there were high doings at Herne. They say his
father is monstrous rich and that Mr. John' will' come ;
into a fine property and may be considered a parti. \
John married the daughter of a local peer. |
and died richer than his father. The family
was now established and driving in new
roots by suitable marriages all over the
Empire. An Australian Appleton appears:
I like Violet. She is not rny idea of a Colonial,
but; she was at school in England, and has often been
home since. She brought some -photographs of
Walleroo, her father’s station in Queensland.
The story ends with the marriage of an
Appleton to a Gault, and the- comment,
“Herne still goes on.” It is in the tradition
of the pre-war masters—there are many
marriages but little love-making; religion
and morality are taken seriously; the
characters know what they waqt from life,
and usually get it—yet it is as exciting as
most modern novels of intrigue. The
family develops along lines that have been
followed wherever the British have settled.
Readers of all types will recognise in the
Appletons traits that, have caused some
family of their acquaintance to become suc-
cessful, as men of all types recognise some-
-1 hing of themselves in “The Egoist”; and 1
the tone of the narrative, .which is simple
and free from malice, like a Judge’s sum-
ming-up, suits the theme.
A Writer in the Making
The Shadow on the Lake, by Joan Phil-
lipps (Collins; 7s, 6d.), has some of the
crudities of a first novel. The heroine is
sweet but smug, and her husband sneers like
a melodrama villain. It is hard to believe
that an Englishman could get away with
manslaughter on the Continent by means
of a speech from his advocate and medical
evidence that deceased was slain in the best
interests of science. However, the weak-
nesses are counterbalanced by the originality
of the form and plot, and by the unstudied
beauty of much of the writing. The scene ,
of the story proper is laid in one of the
French cantons of Switzerland, and is told
in Beatrice's irregularly-kept, diary; but
the centra] figure is her wise old father-in-
law, who sways the destinies of the princi-
pals lrom England. Beatrice’s surgeon-
husband Rex is a vivisectionist. While
they are at Mie with their small son he
exneriments on a half-wit,- accidentally
poisons him, and smashes his head on a
stone to make it appear that death was
caused by a fall. The revolted Beatrice
gets a collusive divorce, which leaves the
way open for her marriage to Jacques
Bartz—probably the only likeable Swiss liar
and trickster in fiction. Jacques came of
peasant stock, and, deciding early in
life that he had no bent for agriculture,
attached himself to an old Englishman
and inherited his fortune. He is drawn with
the confidence of knowledge, and his trans-
formation into a man of sensitive honor
isn’t as hard to swallow as it may sound.
Miss Phillipps will produce a first-class novel
if she has the luck to meet more people as
individual as Jacques. She can write
observe and tell a story.
RED PAGE.
“Fuddling Education”
“Double Graduate” (R.P. 7/10 ’3l)
would have our educational system made |
more utilitarian by substituting Asiatic
languages for Latin, French and the
higher mathematics in the curriculum. I
doubt his statement that “English people
learn French because it is possible to go
to Paris to lunch and be back in London
for tea.”—discussing business propositions
in glib French presumably in the interval. !
Our English forebears were proverbially bad
linguists, yet they achieved trade pre-
dominance when education (as we know
it) was in a very elementary stage.
The point is thus raised, whether the
acquisition of divers tongues is an essen-
tial or even a factor in the establishment
of advantageous trade relationships. It
takes more than a plethora of painfully
acquired idioms “to persuade a foreigner
that the price is right, and that he is getting
a fair deal. Polyglot platitudes fail to
convince even a Chinese coolie of the
perennial succulence of a wooden ham. It
was not b}r declaiming like a Castilian
hidalgo that Britain laid the foundations
of her vast trade with the Argentine.
Little recked the merchant of the past, or
the gaucho of the plain, whether the con-
signor said the goods were dispatched to
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTIf IN ADVERTISING,” and in every act. “THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
Situated in BLOCK 14, “The People’s Shopping Centre
■
/ - A
/
I
1
'
' ■
V;
:
mu
M
,
V:
££2
Hill
Here is a wonderful
protection from the sun
HAR VESTER
SUNSHADE
“When it’s 100 in the shade and
you’re not in the shade.” How well
the Man on the Land knows it—
knows the terrific heat he has to bear
hour after hour day after day. Here is a very simple
device to alleviate a great deal of the discomfort. No
matter what the temperature, with one of the fine. Harvester
Sunshades we illustrate at left, the driver works in the
shade. It is made with a stout pole and fittings, and the
cover is of hard-wearing Khaki Duck on solid iron ribs. We
have only a limited quantity of these left, and the new
Customs duties make it impossible for further supplies to
be imported. Send down for one now—they are remark-
able value at the special Price of 32/6
32/6
{Dept., Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery, City and Suburbs only.)
COMPARE QUALITY FOR QUALITY AND PRICE FOR
PRICE
Here are real savings on
MEN’S
J UMBUK
QUALITY UNDERWEAR
“Jumbuk” Underwear
is all Australian
throughout. Every gar-
ment is unconditionally
guaranteed. “Jumbuk”
Wool Underwear is
made from selected
long staple pure wool
yarn, which is guaran-
te e d non-shrinkable.
The fabric is faultless—
it will not irritate the
tenderest skin. It has
all the stored-up virtues
of Australia’s glorious
sunshine. Obtainable
only from Anthony
Horderns’.
11/3 “Jumbuk
Underwear
10/3
Men s “Jumbuk” Under-
wear. Natu
Medium we
J-sleeves—
-34in., 11/3
36in., 1 |/6
38in., 12/-
40in„ 12/9
42in., 13/6
44in., 14/6
Pants—
-34in., 12/3
36in., 12/6
38in., 13/-
40in., 13/9
42in., 14/6
44in., 15/6
al All-wool
:ght. Shirts,
Sale, 10/3
Sale, 10/6
Sale, 11/-
Sale, 11/9
Sale, 12/6
Sale, 13/6
Sale, 11/3
Sale, 11/6
Sale, 12/-
Sale, 12/9
Sale, 13/6
Sale, 14/6
6/9 “Jumbuk” Underwear
Men’s "Jumbuk” Underwear. Natural Wool
and Cotton summer weight/ Shirts,
Sizes, in. ... 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price—
Sizes, in 34 36 38 40 42 44
6/3 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3
Icints—
Sizes, in 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prlces 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price—
-7/3 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3
63
7/6 Underwear at 6/9 • •
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear. Natural Wool and Cotton,
medium weight. Shirts, —*
Sizes, in 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 7/6 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/3 10/-
Anthony Horderns' Alteration Sale Price—
„ 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/3 8/6 9/3
rants —■
Sizes, in 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 8/3 8/9 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/9
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price—
Prices 7/6 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/3 10/-
5/- Athletic Singlets at
“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets. Cream, all Pure
Wool. Light weight. No sleeves. Art silk
bound neck and armholes.
Sizes 34 36 38 40
Prices 5/- 5/3 5/6 6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price
4/6 4/9 5/
42
6/6
44
7/3
5/6 6/- 6/9
{Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street—We Pay Carriage.)
/ 6
I i
Look for this trade-murk
on your underwear.
4
7/6 Underwear at 7/-
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear. Natural All Wool.
Light weight. Shirts,
Sizes 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 7/6 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price, each—
7/- 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3 10/-
Pants—•
Sizes 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 8/6 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/6
Anthony Horderns’ Alteration Sale Price, each—
8/- 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/-
f
ANTHONY HORDERN 8c SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712c, GJP.O.


GUARDED
bij Hie Customs Officer
$4
Mm
0
G
FROM CASK
TO BOTTLE
ecause it is bottled in bond
under Government supervision,
there can never be any doubt
regarding the uniform fine qual-
ity, maturity and purity of your
Old Court Whisky.
Order it for health and pocket’s
sake, and be sure you get genuine
Old Court—the world’s purest
and the nation’s favourite.
&
and Hie
Na,ion ¥avourife


'i, *
2. "* *
(Duality!
HARDY’S
WINES
of
TINTARA
If
m
:
iiSIS
4
£
.
■:
H
ft
,f
?- 'i
Campion reserve?!
own bottling
***S MARDV t SONS
H»* MELSOURNttSVDNtr ;
5 <-’th Australian wi>
(■ .. <*- .. Zi'^lSsaSß
4 <? » u « a * «_
“Bwynos Airs,” if the manifest were cor-
rect and the cargo up to sample.
The written (though illiterate) and the
spoken (though mispronounced) bond were
sacred in the days when Britain’s commerce
ruled the waves, and wouldn’t waive the
rules. Such phrases as “fiduciary,” “abro-
gation of personal covenant,” “repudia-
tion,” “the iniquity of the written covenant”
stink to high Heaven in every language
native or acquired. Even though dressed
in a kimono, his skin stained with walnut
juice, and talking in the language of the
Samurai, “Double Graduate’s” improved
graduate would find it difficult to persuade
a Japanese of ordinary intelligence that
our calling upon him to write from dicta-
tion an excerpt in Greek as a prelude to
his entry into the Commonwealth was
prompted by a love for the classics he
claimed to be effete.
If our educational system needs amending,
its would-be-improvers should be reminded
that the raison d’etre of education is not to
make stokers prone to distract themselves
with sextants, or matrons capable of either
barneying with butcher-boys or holding
their own in, physiological drawing-room
dialectics, but rather to lead the citizens
from out the morass of mediocrity, the
slough of self-satisfaction, to be on speaking
terms with the humanities, and to at least
a bowing acquaintance with the eternal
verities.
Then, even maybe in an “atmosphere of
mediaeval moulting” (whatever that may
mean), they might be spared the ignominy
of being unable to differentiate between the
proper objectives of a University, a high
school and a business college.
S.N.R.
Grandeur and Australian Literature
As an Australian author who lias been
spoken of in terms almost of adulation by
his publisher, I rise to a point of order.
Cecil Mann (R.P. 30/9/’3l) accuses Aus-
tralian writers as a class of lack of grand-
eur. Mr. Mann should first define what
lie means by “grandeur.” It seems to me
as suspiciously vague as the phrase “sound
finance,” now frequently heard dropping
from the lips of John Citizen. All John
Citizen means by it is that if he puts money
in the bank he can draw it out again if the
bank does not go broke in the meantime.
There is grandeur in Shakspeare and in Joseph
Conrad, but they must be different sorts
oi grandeur, because Shakspeare still stands
while Conrad’s grandeur is steadily slip-
ping him into oblivion. We authors will
need to know more about the grandeur pre-
scribed by Mr. Mann before we can apply
the recipe.
The other day I was watching a painter
trying to paint a cow, part of whose body
was relieved against- a dark tree and part
against infinity. As he rubbed his paints
about he murmured, “Art is merely a
matter of relationships correctly stated.”
It seemed a bald definition, but when ana-
lysed it may help to provide the key to
what Mr. Mann means by grandeur. It
can’t lie in the nature of the subject Here
is a small sketch by Turner. A bit of
sand, a boat, a strip of sky. The sand, the
boat and the sky are correctly related to
one Another. The sketch looks infinitely
grander even than the great Venetian pic-
tures.: Here is one of Rembrandt’s later
self-portraits. A dim old man with an untidy
rag on his head looking at himself in a
mirror. Everything is in beautiful rela-
tionship. There is no doubt about the
picture’s grandeur. Put alongside it George
Lambert’s portrait of Mrs. Ernest Watt.
A othing in that portrait is related to any-
thing else in it. The painter’s vanity has
intruded. The picture is absolutely lacking
m grandeur.
Maybe it is the same with literature.
Here is a human being who has to be
depicted. A Steele Rudd will relate his
actions to an amusing accident, such as
lalling in a milk pail. An Edgar Wallace
will relate them to the problem of who
killed the old miser whose corpse was dis-
covered in the ice-chest. The job is well
done, but there is nothing grand about it.
A JJe Maupassant will relate the man’s
actions to causes rooted in his sexual
nature. He is approaching grandeur. A
Uostoieffsky will relate them not only to
nature but somehow or other—
nobody quite knows how it is done—to
the problem of life itself, to the riddle of
existence, to infinity. We feel that to all
these things Dostoieff.sky’s man is perfectly
related. It is the sand, the boat and the
sky of the Turner sketch again. It is grand-
eur.
Conrad tried to make man look grand
but only succeeded in making him melo-
dramatic. De Maupassant did not attempt
to make him look anything but what he
is and yet got near to grandeur. Dos-
toiefisky s man remains the man next door,
exactly as he is, and yet he achieved
grandeur. It is merely a matter of rela-
tionships correctly stated. Those relation-
ships have first to be discovered by obser-
' a^lon - I do not know what gives one man
immensely greater powers of observation
and relationship than another, but it is
certainly not through a conscious seeking
after grandeur. Probably it is partly
through direct exercise of the observing
faculty. With few exceptions our Austra-
lian writers would be totally ignorant of
sexual psychology if it weren’t for the
discoveries of De Maupassant. They went to
somebody who went to somebody who went
o De Maupassant. He did the unromantic
Rung and went to men and woiMaj so every
South Seas island romance in
this country had for godfather the splendid
frenchman who died a raving lunatic in
his thirties.
F.S.
A Morpeth By-product
Morpeth slumbers, or seems to slumber
beside its idle wharves and the crumbling
stones of its empty warehouses. The casual
visitor would not suspect it of being the home
of a publishing house and printery that is in
its way one of the liveliest in Australia. On
one of the hills above the river—the Hunter
—is the theological college (St. John’s)
which supplies parsons for most of the
Anglican churches of New South Wales.
Printing (done by the staff and students)
and publishing are by-products of a manu-
factory of priests and deacons.
About four years ago E. H. Burgmann,
the warden, . began printing a quarterly
review with an old machine which survived
only a few issues. Money was found for
modern equipment, and to-day, as a printing
job, the “Morpeth Review” can look any
of the handful of quarterlies that Australia
produces squarely in the eye. Its contri-
butors include ecclesiastical and secular
scholars from all parts of Australia and
most of the other continents—scientists,
economists, history men, doctors and plain
journalists. Two copies that I have by me
include articles on Government finance,
Communism, Christian Science, art, geology,
St. Francis and philosophy.
In the last two years the press has begun
producing substantial booklets on an equally
wide range of subjects. The most recent ven-
ture is a sixpenny series in the same style as
Bonn’s Sixpenny Books (which cost us 9d.).
Ihe two latest in the series are Understand-
ing the Australian Aborigine, by Dr. A. P.
Elkin, who has lived among the abos. doing
anthropological work; and The Challenge
of Communism, by G. V. Port us, of Sydney
University. It, is good to see Australia mak-
ing efforts to write and print her own books
for herself; it is strange to see it being
done in the bush. There isn’t a university
in Australia (and two of them are among
the big universities of the world) which
is doing as much publishing as this college
with its staff of two and its platoon oi
students. Why?
JOHN FORST.
A Satchel of Books
An original feature of Bruce Hamilton’s
latest crime story. Hue and Cry (Collins;
7s. Gd.j, is that there is no mystery as to
the identity of the murderer. Tom Payton,
professional footballer, kills Gordon Crowe,
for good and sufficient reasons on p. 53, and
spends the rest of the book evading the
police. The suspense is maintained almost
to the last paragraph, and then :
All’s well.
The words recurred to Tom two days later, as he
stood with Harry Jupp watching the sun set behind
the cliffs of Cornwall. Next morning they would
be in the Bay, and this was his last glimpse of
England.
Another unusual feature of the novel is that
Tom periodically gets drunk and runs after
strange females. He is one of the earthiest
heroes on record.
The World Against Alary (Methuen; 7s.
Gd.) is the somewhat unfortunate title Dr.
Otto Frommer has given to his translation
of ,T. M. Frank’s best-seller, “Das Leben
der Marie Szameitat.” Mary is a good and
lovable creature who marries Fritz, a Berlin
waiter. lie takes t& drink, becomes an epi-
leptic, gambles, steals and goes to gaol. She
divorces him to give her five children a chance,
and by working 15 hours a day and half-
starving herself manages to keep them from
starvation. But Fate, Destiny, Luck, or
whatever it may be called, has marked her
for destruction, as so often happens with
deserving cases, and she is seen being pushed
slowly, inexorably, over the abyss. It is a
grim indictment of the social system, which
applies to other countries besides modern
Germany, but few novel-readers outside Ger-
many, which is suffering badly from self-
pity just now, are likely to enjoy it. There
isn’t a note of joy or hope in the book from
beginning to end.
THE PAGAN.
Away from tlic soil of everlasting toil,
God guide my feet.
Let this worn body rest, with fine linens
caressed,
Perfumed with flowers sweet.
Deliver me clean from man’s foul machine
To a short breath of life—
Music and pictures rare, fine wines and
dainty fare,
For me—a poor wife.
Into my sight let there come colors bright.
Bundles of bloom.
Show me this world a bit, not just a speck of it,
Shadowed in gloom.
From a mighty hill give me the thrill
To see the sun, rise,
Showing huge peaks of snow glitter, flash
and glow
To my dazzled eyes.
This poor clod asks for it now. God,
Not after she dies!
I’ve earned my right to it, I) ask my share of it.
Not side-stepping lies.
MAOIULAND. P. J. g.
And a Little Verse
THE BRONZE FAUN.
With Satanic face, and lying
In a sprawl of wild abandon,
With his nose a little bent and
Lips quite twisted in lascivious leer,
The Bronze Faun is kicking his heels
At the haughty Red-Bound Shakspeare.
Now, he seems* to throw a longing
Look at coy Miss Wilcox, who sits
In her coffee-brown cover at
The end of the shelf. But here you
Stay, young satyr; for in this room
Is there some sense of propriety.
N.S.W.
A. DE REYA.
Answers to Correspondents.
A ° "°L Ce L exCept °K a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
onJ mV nf ? ppea ’~ on l he -] IS - A’o liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
ana no Mb. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ruslea: But why let a third party into
the ring?. .. .R.M.P.: Cultivate a lighter touch
if you want to pass as a humorist... .5.8.: Indiffer-
ently told. .. . G.T.: Insipid — .H.E.F. :As many bad
points in the yarn as there are revolver shots
A.L.R.: Honest, do you believe a word of it? It’s
insincerity that makes so much verse sound so
hollow E. Els: Schoolboy? A.L.S.: “Alone
with Bacchus” holds one priceless line: “And breath
comes in passion-filled pants.” But we’ve seen it
in pinnies, too. ...Illis: Ten stanzas of shallow pro-
fundity. .. . H.W.: Improve the start of “Youth”;
the sestet deserves something better. .. .L.M.B. :
Clear verdict of w.p.b Joyce: Pleasant rhyming.
Robert C.: “Beauty” has merit; but rather a
posed beauty. . . .E.V.8.: Your “pagan with the satyr
brow” turns into a “wayward elf.” Now, that’s
letting us down. .. . J.R.R.: Death falling upon the
soul like coal-damp in a mine is a new one, any-
how.... Una B.: Keep on. One day instead of
being a frenzied moth you promise to be at least
a glow-worm on Parnassus. .. .A.F.D.: Has atmo-
sphere; weak otherwise.... Francis J. B.: Why
challenge Shakspearc? Good work in it, t 00....
P.P.: We still don’t know whether Tony married
the dishwasher or the waitress. .. .E.H.T.: Guessed
the ending with ease N.Q.: More like anti-
vivisectionist propaganda than a story.. . .F.D.8.:
Do you want to make us all swear never to touch
water again ?... ..J.M.: So many have sung the same
desire in stronger, sweeter if not neater verse. ... .
Tiffin: You can’t make poetry out of prose by cutting
it up into stove lengths C.C.: F.a.q. ; nice feel-
ing; no new ideas... .Hercules S. B.: Poor work,
echoing another M.J.G.: A few good lines. But
it’s an ancient theme with a world-old conclusion.
... . Pcggy-o: Good enough idea ; but needs a lighter
hand.. . .L.M.D.0.: Sterile... .W.V.: “Whence came
we, for what and why ?” Old Omar asked it a
lot more fruitily... .The Buster: No quality
Thesan: See no promise... .Cooinoo: Well done, but
rather futile Vic L.: Not quite. Has a go’odish
ending; but one expects it. .. .G.J.L.: Sorry, that
was full long ag0.... Horton: Too long-drawn-out.
....John C.: The irony is entertaining at first, but
gets tiresome... .M.E.McK.: You’ve managed to
make a very sentimental thing sound likely. Just
misses. ... Digit: Won’t be a Christmas extra, but
there will be a special Christmas number, same as last
year—ordinary issue and Christmas number in one...
Alison M.: Coincidence’s limb is torn out of the
socket, and the people are conventional. . . .Dido Jun.:
Our “usual terms” for poetry like that are un-
mentionable.... Leuroo: No, but it has dramatic
sense, and the good quality of directness... .G.E.1.:
One verse, anyhow, even if Lang has to go short
this week:—
When you try to strop your razor on your little
sister’s plat,
And you whistle “Oh My Darling” while you lather
up the cat,
And you try to squeeze your foot into your mother's
brand-new glove,
And use a napkin for a hankie —oh blymie, you’re
in love!
. ...M.M.C.: Not yet. And try a change of theme.
Custom can stale even the everlastings... .Neil S.:
Nearly. But why liken any nice girl’s breast to a
tomb?. .. .F.L.S.: Says nothing new J.T.W.:
Ineffective. And the third stanza jars J.R.R.;
Keep going. And read... .M.W.M.C.: Nothing new
in tiie symbolism; and the manner alone wouldn’t
make it worth while... .C. A.R.: Any young man who
can get all that out of a jazz band and a saxo-
phone ought to pay double for his ticket L.J.H.:
Neither bricks nor bouquets for the simple rhymed
story.... .G.F.K.: Alas, neither has the power....
Kag: Glib rhymings; but not enough in them....
LAV . W.: “Cheque” strikes no responsive note....
Gadfly
To-day I’ve reached the age of twenty-one,
Instanter I an elector have become.
'the other hundred lines make us add “God help you
—and the electorate.R.C.D.: Your trust that
your verses may prove of “some little use” is mis-
placed Coral Jack: “The Death Grip of Peter
Clark” grips us as tenaciously as a hunk of cold
boiled cabbage... .D.L.J.: “If of sufficient merit you
might print.” So we might if it were. .. . Mulga
Mack: We would pass “Gouger Bill’s” profane ex-
pressions if he could only rhyme decently.... Covot:
Stick to prose... .J.H.: Some highbrow magazine
might read it twice Scriptor : Rubbish H.C.:
You could do better if you tried Lignum:
A good pen-name anyhow. We’ve seldom encountered
harder and heavier stuff. . . .P.A.S.: Awful Pat:
The w.p.b. provided a prompt answer to your “Quo
Vadis ?”.... K.S.: Times are hard enough without
having to read sonnets with “sport”—“brought”
rhymes.., .C.T.M.: Execrable. .. . Sclerosis : Scan-
dalous. .. .Philin: True enough, but you don’t make
tolerable verse of it....J.M.: “Shearing” sheer in-
anity... .Salt Lake: It made us feel thirsty, t 00....
A..LE.: Atmosphere in it, but little else.. . IJ/E.: A
hash of technical jargon and novelette sentiment.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.R.H.: Try some other paper 8.W.H.: Has
been done before... .li.F.: An old smoking-room story.
....P.D.: From what waxworks did you lift them?
M.B.D.: No room for the ogre J.M.: Look
up an art teacher and think out some original
wheezes W.N.: Hopeless A.J.L.: A cartoon is
not made by throwing figures on paper and giving
them labels. .. .W.R. : Mauve drawing-board adds a
gay touch to w.p.b H. 8.: It’s less like a car
than a goat-cart.... R.C.: That goose will lay no
golden eggs for you U.C.: Now, isn’t it a Laurel
and Hardy joke? .LA.: The tiled floor is the
only thing well done L.J.: Dreadful H.B.L. :
A bit late in the day to get worked up over that
incident... .K.A.: Too much letterpress and too small
a drawing T.T.: Improved - 400 p.c. it might pass.
. ...5.8.: All low-grade. ... 8.C.: Good lettering,
crude figure-work.... F.W.: You might struggle into
print some day R.M.N.: The stalest of all drunk
jokes... .D.T.: Burn no more midnight oil if that
is the result... ~J.F.: Always pleased to consider
original jokes without drawings... .M.J.S.: Will it
do? .It will n0t....11.D.: No sign of talent 1 in that
scratchy lot.. . . M.F.H.: Figure in foreground might
pass as a Zulu chief but never as an ab0....V.T.:
Some good detail work, but stiff on the whole
T.8.A.: Cross hatching too heavy.... N.G.: Missed
the mark badly W.A.V.: Good poses, but that
ia all.


sd
sdf
!
I
f
jL\'
JISS’
rTaOR®sL M
'
k
■
■
<CV
*%<: . ✓
.
I
■ '■ ■■:
iaanß
3®
r ~'*•■ ; . ■
PH * '
mm
m .
\itr
■
MNK
. - &
■\ j
2W
V* *W"'^
& -
M
■
W"* i
S: *"■ :
m %
*
is
.
1
pf «r
■
.'v : :V-’- : ' ::
jf '
-
I
fl
■
i *•
# J
* ii
«•• •
wM
WOl
me


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2698.
October 28, 1931.
THE NARK
PH 0 strike threatens Australia with fresh losses at a time when the country seemed to be emerging a little from its difficulties.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 25211!B; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, H .C. 2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for tioz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz,
A BOUQUET FOR MR, LANG.
A few weeks ago a man aboard the inter-
state steamer Canberra fell ill and another
was put on in his place. Later the sick man
recovered, and, when the vessel got back
to Sydney, the decent thing was done and
he was given his old job. Then a row
started. The substitute, a “militant” who
had contrived to get well into the limelight
on the voyage, declared he had been “vic-
timised”; so the vessel was prevented from
leaving. She was loaded with cargo, and
the owners, assuming that the quarrel was
with themselves and not with the shippers
of the goods, transferred the latter to
another vessel, the Wear. Promptly she,
too, was held up. Meantime the Westralia
was loading in Sydney for the regular Satur-
day departure for Melbourne, Adelaide and
the West. A few hours before her sailing
time five hands deserted; and that held
her up likewise, with all her passengers and
cargo aboard. In Melbourne the same thing
happened: on the pretext that they might
in some way be concerned in the trouble in
Sydney, three vessels were held up there.
All the time this was going on there was a
steady trickle of news paragraphs to the
effect that union officials were entirely
opposed to the action taken, and that it had
the support only of a very small number of
the rank and file.
At any time during the progress of the
row the chances were that in the end what
had happened in a hundred other cases
would happen in this; a compromise would
be made by the owners in order to get the
ships running, and the hold-up would end
on an agreement that there would be no
victimisation. Then the wheels would start
afresh, until the same or some other mis-
chief-maker spragged them again. It is
time the public’s voice was heard in this
matter.
Three parties are interested in industrial
disputes and their settlement —employer,
employee and public. It was chiefly on
account of the public’s interest that arbitra-
tion was agreed upon and courts and other
tribunals set up. Generally it is possible
for the other two parties to patch up their
differences at the expense of the public; and
it has been almost the practice of the
Courts to adopt that easy but most vicious
plan of settlemexrt. The results have been
a steady encroachment upon the rights
of the public, a steady increase of spolia-
tion, and, worst of all, a steady corruption
of the morals of industrial unions—results
which have had much to do with Australia
being in the distressful condition it is.
In effect the public made a contract with
its servants, who are both employees and
employers. “In consideration,” it said, “of
your agreeing to carry on the public’s busi-
ness, we will undertake to settle your dis-
putes and enforce our decisions. You need
no longer build up out of your earnings
great fighting funds: we will see that you
get justice through the Courts.” That was
the contract implied in the creation of all
this machinery for the settlement of indus-
trial disputes. Only so long as the contract
is honored is this machinery and the vast
expense it entails justified. But it is not
for the public to say, “Very well, since you
will not prevent dislocations of industry, we
will withdraw our machinery.” The public
is not going to retreat in that fashion. Its
business is to see that the contract is car-
ried into effect. In such a case as this, that
means that its job is to see that the one or
two men who were responsible for the
entire catastrophe are suitably punished; and
suitable punishment for a campaign to
defeat the law is, in most cases, deporta-
tion. Either the unions are in favor of the
peaceful settlement of disputes or they are
not. If they are, then they must cease to
regard these “militants” as the salt of the
movement. They must regard them, instead,
as diseases of their system. There was a
time before the industrial law was set up, a
time when the strike and the lockout were
the only weapons, when the enemy of the
unionist, who broke the union policy, was
a “scab.” The “scabs” are still the men who
break the union policy.
We have been letting too many things
slide, letting too many things go by default.
We have been sacrificing great principles,
making mushy compromises, all along the
line. Our recent “voluntary” conversion
loan is a case in point; now we have the
leaders of the Federal Government telling
us that, while the Government was insisting
upon the “voluntary” nature of the con-
version, it was well understood that com-
pulsion would be practised in the end —
that, in effect, the “voluntary” campaign
was a sham, only intended to make a good
impression upon our overseas creditors. Or
consider another illuminating case. All his
adult life Mr. Lyons belonged to the Labor
party; and he was its Deputy-Leader in
the Federal Parliament. Then he disagreed
with other members of the Government on
certain matters of policy. Instantly he was
embraced by the Opposition and made its
leader —the president of the Orange Lodge,
having quarrelled with his brethren on one
or two matters of policy, being not only
instantly welcomed into the Church but
made a cardinal if not a Pope! That Mr.
Lyons is a most highly respected politician
has nothing to do with the case. This is
not a matter of character; it is a matter
of creed.
Why has Lang such a hold upon so large
a number of the people not only of N. S.
Wales but of Australia? He is an ignorant,
boorish person, with less knowledge of
economics than the average modern school-
boy; a proven liar, and clumsy at that; a
bully; a man whose precious Plan, the
stupidest thing ever thrown together in a
hurry, has had 'to be abandoned, by its builder
whenever an attempt has been made to put it
into effect; with no platform graces what-
ever, and a tremendous capacity for making
personal enemies. Yet, in the face of
disasters which would have overwhelmed
almost any other man in Australian public
life, he has held his Government together,
he has held his majority, lie has carried
the war into Federal territory, and the Plan,
a thing which on its merits would win the
contempt of even a professional Domain
dossers’ debating club, has been made the
issue at elections in other States. The
whole explanation lies in the fact that Lang
does things. They may not be always the
things he promised. He may be driven to
compromise; but it is with a curse for the
compromise.
Lang may yet do a great service to Aus-
tralia. The success of such a man with
such rotten principles may encourage other
men to consider what they might accomplish
if only they would stick as hard to their
sound ones'—if only they would do good
deeds with as much contempt for con-
sequences as he does evil ones.
GENTLEMEN, THE PRESS!
Eighteen years ago, through the efforts of
the A.W.U., the money was subscribed to
produce a Labor journal in Sydney. The
home was built, plant set up, a staff engaged
and the first reels of paper bought; then the
Kaiser tore up his scrap of paper and the
issue of the “World” was postponed. One
by one the early enthusiasts for it within
the A.W.U. dropped out, the home was
well let, the union’s own needs were met by
the consistently well-handled “Worker,” and
the “Labor Daily” slowly got on to its
feet, mainly through the efforts of the
Miners’ Federation. Thus, through one in-
fluence and another, the A.W.U. paper con-
tinued to keep company with Marie Slopes
throughout all those nearly 20 years, and
probably would have gone on doing so
indefinitely but for the rift between the
Lang repudiationists and the Federal party.
With Mr. Lang the idol of the “Labor
Daily” and the A.W.U. behind the Federal
party, the old plan for a new “World” had
to be revived.
Very great changes have occurred m
newspaper control and production during
the past quarter-century, in Australia as
elsewhere. For many years after the birth
of the newspaper press, ownership was almost
always in private hands. Generally a man
with a knowledge of the printing trade and
with more enterprise than most set up a
press and ground out a sheet with the pur-
pose of making a living for himself. _ If the
job was well done, and the public interest
was watched, and public ends were served,
and circumstances otherwise favored it, the
infant thrived; or sometimes the founders
dropped out, giving place to men with more
energy or vision. So we had that great
string of “family” papers from Perth,
through Adelaide and Hobart and Mel-
bourne and Sydney, to Brisbane, which were
among the possessions Australia did well
to be proud of at the beginning of this
century.
But a great change had to come. In a
very few cases a family can carry on the
traditions of a newspaper office oyer many
generations; but in general there is no suc-
cession capable of doing it, nor any interest
very deeply concerned about maintaining
those traditions. So, although here and
there boards of trustees have been success-
fully appointed for the purpose of carrying
on upon the old lines, inevitably the joint-
stock company comes on the scene.
The arrival of the joint-stock co. in this
field was wholly justified. Its first large
venture in Australia was the issue of
the “Daily Telegraph” in Sydney. Down
to that time, while Protection had the ser-
vices of the “Age” in Victoria, there was
none to say a word for it in Sydney. Later,
after the “Telegraph” had gone over
enemy and was outdoing the “Herald” in
zeal for Freetrade, the “Star” was pro-
jected to take its place as a propagandist
of Protection. It is not easy to see how
a cause which most certainly needed a voice
could have got it in any other way than
through the sale of shares. And what was
true then is true to-day. Only one other
plan has been found workable; and that is
through unions, members being compelled
to subscribe. Because of that compulsion,
greater objection can, however, be taken to
that plan than to the other.
No doubt the straight-out propagandist
sheet can be injurious and a public danger.
It is an advocate, not a judge or jury; and
those who read it and only it will cer-
tainly become one-eyed. But a worse
danger may lie in the purely commercial
sheets—the papers owned by joint-stock
cos. without traditions and without a
purpose beyond making dividends. The
instant rush for some of these sheets
has been gravely disturbing; and the
more pornographic or otherwise objection-
able they were, the greater their success
seemed to be. But, though the mob is a
poor thing, its units in the quiet of their
homes can be depended upon to mostly do
right, if not to-day, then to-morrow. So
wrongs do right themselves; so the porno-
graphic paper is dropped; so the journal
which sets false values before its readers,
though rushed to-day, is made to feel in the
long run that the old qualities in newspaper
conduct are still demanded. Two or
three years ago there was a strong body
of opinion that journalism was not a proper
field for any and every joint-stock company
that chose to exploit it. We have seen how
necessary it is to license the liquor-seller
and severely regulate his business; and it
looked as though the provider of the other
kind of “dope” for profit might have to be
similarly licensed and restrained. But the
danger is passing. In journalism, as in most
other things, the good may die young; but
it is more certain that the bad do not live
long.
MR. SCHELLEY GIVES ARBITRATION
ANOTHER CRACK.
The present Industrial law of Australia had
its birth in the ’eighties. With the steady
growth of trade-unionism and the increas-
ing co-operation of employers, strikes and
lockouts had got more and more like civil
war; there were indeed all the elements of
such a war in the last great shearers’ strike.
And more and more it was felt that steps
must be taken to stop this drift. It was
not only the growing likeness to civil war
which appalled thoughtful people: they
saw, too, that the merits of a claim had
hardly anything to do with the decision
reached by strike or lockout. The London
dockers’ struggle suggested further that
those suffering the worst conditions might
be the least able to take steps to improve
them. Matters were felt to be so bad that
almost any change must be for the better.
Behind almost all statute law there is
the common law; and there are established
customs as a further guide. But here there
was nothing to help the Parliaments; every-
thing attempted was in the nature of pure
experiment. After 40 years everything is
still in the nature of pure experiment. In
N. S. Wales alone there have been no less
than eight complete changes in the law,
besides innumerable minor changes. We
have tried conciliation alone and concilia-
tion with voluntary arbitration. We have
abandoned conciliation and tried compul-
sory arbitration. W r e have put the busi-
ness in the hands of laymen, and we have
left it wholly to Judges. We have tried
a Board of Trade, we have invited lawyers
in and shut lawyers out. The one thing
which the constant changes show is that
we ha.ve never found anything to give satis-
faction ; and in the end we have a state of
things in which a fool or a fanatic at the
best and the paid tool of a foreign power
at the worst can dislocate not only the
machinery of commerce, but the machinery
for the settlement of industrial disputes.
So to begin with we had a .system of
government without means for the peaceful
settlement of disputes, and producing such
shocking results as those which disturbed
thoughtful people in the ’eighties and
’nineties; to end with we have prodigious
machinery, from the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court down to wages boards, cost-
ing us hundreds of thousands a year, and
still incapable of preventing an unknown
Communist seaman, late of Germany, our
friend Mr. Schelley, from working up a
strike that affects half the ships of the
Commonwealth.
There must be something better than
either of these sets of conditions. We cannot
go back to the old ways; we certainly
cannot put up with the new.
Where did we get off the track? To
answer that we must see what it was we
set out to avoid. As we have seen, strikes
and lockouts were getting too much like
civil war, great bodies of men being organ-
ised on either side, with large funds at
their disposal. We felt bound to provide
means of avoiding these clashes. Generally,
of course, they were on questions of pay
or hours; and it was felt that it should
not be a difficult matter to adjust disputes
over such questions. There was the whole
range of other occupations, with their
wages and hours, to serve as a guide. Here
were the hodcarriers in dispute with their
employers. W ell, it was a fairly easy
matter to compare the hodcarriers’ work
and pay with the work and pay of a dozen-
other classes of toilers, and make adjust-
ments which the case called for. That plan
was based on the assumption that these
dozen other classes had fixed their pay with
their employers. But at that point trouble
started which completely changed the work
of all industrial tribunals. The button-
makers’ union, observing that the hod-
carriers had got a rise, engineered a dis-
pute with their employers; and soon every
union in the country found that it had a
grievance. Almost in a moment mdustria
tribunals had completely changed then
character. Their primary job was no longei
to prevent or settle disputes; it was to nx
wages. . .. ,
This would have been all right it there
had been any yardstick by which wages am
conditions could be measured. Original y ,
as we have seen, there was such a yard-
stick. By what was supposed to some
natural law the various trades had adopted
certain pay, hours, etc.; and by that stan-
dard the claim of the hodcarners was judged.
But when practically every trade and call-
ing ha.d had its pay fixed by the tribunals
themselves, there was no such yardstick:.
The emplover might be right or the
might be right; and three times out o.
four the tribunal, after the manner of a
bodies unsure of themselves, gave each
party a little. This was a standing invita-
tion to employees, through their paid wire-
pullers, to make extravagant demands.
To-day nobody knows whether wages and
conditions in this trade or that calling aie
fair or ridiculous. They have been fixed
by tribunals without standards.
The question is how to reach such a
standard as we had to begin with. Tnere
seems to be only one way—to get back o
where we were when the system was hrst.
introduced. To do that we should have to
wipe out all awards for, say, three years.
At the end of that time the trades and call-
ings should have sorted themselves out,
and wages be fixed according to something
like natural law. On that foundation we
might build. The wages, etc., at the end
of the period would be the basic wage foi
that calling; every subsequent variation m
the cost of living would be allowed tor
as it arrived; and in case of dispute all
that would have to be gone into would be
whether circumstances had arisen warrant-
ing a change in the status of a particular
calling. . , , . , i
It may not be practicable to put such a
plan into effect as a whole. But at least,
our aim to be in that direction, tno
object of our system should be not to hx
wages, and especially the wages of indi-
viduals, but to redress grievances which
long negotiation has been unable to right.
Once the conditions in an industry have
been fixed it should be impossible to alter
them for either better or worse except by
.showing that the work has changed in rela
tion to all other work—-has become easier
or more difficult, demands less skill or more,
is more dangerous or less. For the rest
the cost of living figures should govern all
changes. '
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sparing the Rod.
From the days of Solomon there has been
scarcely an age in which some wise man
has not left it on record that to spare the
rod is to spoil the child; and it may be
that that is what is wrong with the world
to-day—or one of the things. Certainly our
system of government has been turned moie
and more in the direction of sparing people
from the consequences of their own folly.
Four or five years ago wise men who saw
whither Australia was speeding said the
people would come to their senses presently;
a whole community could not get_ more
than it earned, and if it demanded impos-
sible wages and hours, then sooner or latei
it must be without work and go hungry.
But, as we now know, nobody is allowed
to go hungry. A man may be responsible
for such a stupid strike as that which
latelv occurred at Broken Hill, and the
public Treasury is at once thrown open to
save him from distress. He may be an
inveterate loafer; he may cheat Ins employer
and his fellow-employees impartially. But
so long as he can keep his job the lav
will see that he gets the same pay as the
industrious man alongside him; and if he
plays his cards reasonably well, the employer
dare not dismiss him either. He may be a
dissolute and thriftless wastrel; but we take
him by the hand in his old age and give him
as good a pension as the best. Indeed, 1
is almost certain that of the two the wastrel
will now fare the better. The thrifty will
make provision for sickness through his
friendly society; but the doors of the public
hospital will swing open as freely for the
penniless man whose evil habits have
brought him ill-health as for the Odd-
fellow or Forester who has been stricken
down after a lifetime of sober and honest
endeavor. . .
It is true that in our complex civilisation
the honest and industrious may be smitten
with misfortune; he may be unemployed
and in distress; he may be penniless in
sickness and in old age. There are few
now who will question his right to all those
social services which our civilisation has
established. But the time has come when
we ought to make it quite clear that idle-
ness and improvidence and other bad habits
are still things to be discouraged. Nobody
is so much harmed by the present lack ot
discrimination as the honest and indus-
trious worker and the unfortunate work-
less. The former’s pay is less than it ought
to be because he has to carry the dishonest
and idle; the unfortunate workless have to
put up with less than they should get
because they must share with those who
have no moral claim to any help at all.
More than anything else the Communistic
appeal to “class consciousness” is respon-
sible for the refusal to discriminate, the
“worker” is the friend because, though he
may be a loafer on his fellows, his vote is
“right”; the employer is the enemy because.


though by his capacity for organisation and
by his knowledge he may provide thousands
with employment, his vote is wrong. There
never yet was a garden in which weeds did
not grow, never a good movement upon
which evil forces did not seek to thrive.
The trade-union movement is in this matter
one with the rest. Established to save the
worker from spoliation and injustice, it has
been gradually used to fasten on to the
worker a greater army of parasites and a
worse tyranny. It was bad enough when
Labor had to carry an army of officials
inside and outside the Trades Hall; it is
worse now that it is called upon
to carry the idle and careless and incom-
petent worker, the loafer, the improvident
and the dissolute, for no better reason than
that the votes of these people are supposed
to be right. It seems a terrific price for
the good working-class citizen to pay for a
vote which has no doubt helped largely to
give him the sort of Government he has
got.
—♦
Works in Good and Bad Times.
We can draw some consolation from the
fact that the net profits of industry in the
United States have fallen away almost
as much as our own. Comparing the first
half of the year with the corresponding
half of 1930, 555 U.S. companies show a
reduction of 52 per cent, in profits; the
average profit was 8.8 per cent, on capital
funds in the earlier period and 4.2 per cent,
in the later.
A feature of these and earlier statistics
is that cos. engaged directly or indirectly in
construction work are the heaviest suf-
ferers. In the latest figures, iron and steel
cos. show a fall of 98 per cent, in one group
and 79 per cent, in another; machinery cos.’
profits shrank 81 per cent., railway equip-
ment and mining (non-ferrous), 86 per cent,
each. In another and different series there
are drugs and chemists’ sundries 3 per cent.,
restaurants 12 per cent., shoes 31 per cent.,
textiles 29 per cent., tobacco (cigars) 30
per cent., food products 27 per cent. Cer-
tainly profit is not an infallible guide to
turnover; but it is a fair indication of how
turnover will be presently.
Looked at from this point the statistics
stress the importance of giving out work
according to the necessities of the time.
There is no one cause of unemployment;
there are a dozen. And among them is the
large and stupid capacity the world has for
going in furiously for construction jobs at
the very time when trade generally is brisk
and the world could very well do without
this extra fillip. It is, in fact, a double-
barrelled fillip; it takes men from their
ordinary avocations and thus reduces pro-
ductive work and it mops up material
and thus adds further to prices and costs.
And when the reaction comes the crash is
double-barrelled also; men who were en-
gaged upon construction work itself are
thrown idle, and industries making supplies
for this work, losing their markets, must
shorten hands likewise. Australia, being a
great borrower for public and private
■works, lias suffered more than most from
these violent fluctuations—withdrawing tens
of thousands of men from productive in-
dustries in good times in order to join in
a works boom, and flooding the markets
with them in bad times when industry
has too many of its own victims.
It may be that whatever policy the Devil
lays down when he is sick he will depart
from when he is well. But at least let
us give ourselves the satisfaction of marking
out a programme of perfection: to resist
capital expenditure in good times so that
the booming influences may be kept as
mild as possible, and to prepare in such
times for a vigorous policy of capital
expenditure in bad times, so that the de-
pression may be lifted as far as possible.
How many tens of millions less would
the public works of Australia constructed
in the ten years 1920-30 have cost had
they been deferred until a year ago and put
in hand then! How well we could have
done without them in those years of plenty
that are gone! And how infinitely valuable
they would be to-day!
The N.S.W. Lottery.
The N.S.W. Government lottery is such a
'‘success” that two drawings have now to
be crowded into a week; and, while half
the factories in Sydney are either closed
down or working less than half-time, long
queues stand outside the Government
Savings Bank, where the Gambling Dept,
has its headquarters, from early morning
until late afternoon.
The Bulletin has never been able to
agree that either a lottery or a raffle is
in itself morally wrong. In most cases it
is economically foolish; it merely fastens
another mob of parasites upon the com-
munity. But it can be turned into a moral
as well as an economic wrong; and that
is what is happening in N. S. Wales to-day.
Man must have something to look for-
ward to, and Tatt.’s occasional sweep served
its purpose in the scheme of things. People
threw in their few shillings two or three
times a year, and neither felt the loss of
them nor allowed the mild gamble to color
their thoughts or affect their manner of
living. They still regarded industry and
thrift as the real roads to comfort if not
affluence. 1 o-day we are bringing up a
whole community to regard a public gamble
as the one and only way to those things.
There never was a greater reflection upon
Government of a country. It means
that here industry and thrift are now so
little rewarded that they have ceased to be
attractive, and that the chance of getting
work and wages is regarded as less than
the chance of drawing a prize of some sort.
Time after time it has been announced in
the papers which make the lottery results
by far the most important news of the
day that this or that lucky “investor” had
been out of work for months and didn’t
know where next week’s food was to come
from; he had put his last few shillings
into a ticket—and now the future was all
bright and rosy! Surely it is appalling that
in a young country like this people verging
on starvation should see in a gamble their
best hope of getting next week’s food. In
ordinaiy circumstances the rush of betting
money would be regarded as a sign of
affluence in the community. But here we
see that it can be a sign of desperation
and despair-—of the same feelings which
impel the bank clerk to dip into the till
and stake his future on a wild plunge at
the races. The present Government appa-
rently looks upon it all complacently, if not
with ,joy, as a great success, instead of re-
garding it all as one of the most awful
proofs of Ministerial failure.
4
A World of Change.
Even the “S. M. Herald” now admits that
Freetrade isn’t a commandment or a car-
dinal virtue or anything like that, but just
a business expedient which may be very
good in some circumstances yet rotten in
others. This is the new “Herald” speaking
of the new Ramsay MacDonald:—
Will he cling to the Cobdenite faith, or will he
persuade himself to give Protection in some shape
or form a trial ? Consistency is not always a virtue,
In exceptional times the strict adherence to prin-
ciples held when circumstances were dissimiliar
may be misguided. Mr. MacDonald.... sees in many
quarters hitherto favorable to Freetrade signs of
conversion, unwilling, but prompted by the logic
of events. .. . Sir John Simon, perhaps the out-
standing figure now in the Liberal party and a life-
long Freetrader, has recanted, acknowledging that
Protection might help to cure Britain’s woes....
Will Mr. MacDonald, conquering his prepossessions,
grasp the nettle? Should he do so the Dominions
will be encouraged to hope that this will be a
preliminary to preference for their products, and
prevent the dumping of goods produced in Russia
under conditions akin to slavery. •
The Bulletin as a consistently Protection-
ist paper has said times without number
that Britain should go in for Protection,
not only for its own sake, but because, to
quote a sordid reason, it can give us pre-
ference only by charging us less duty than
it charges against foreigners; and while the
Simons and their kin taught with some suc-
cess that it was a deadly sin to charge
duty against foreigners, there was no room
worth mentioning for preference. Now
Protection has become respectable through
the Simons and their kin seeing the light,
and the “Herald” says what The Bulletin
has long been saying. Freetrade is no longer
a. first-class policy in England for English-
men, but a good policy in England for
with their vast command of en-
slaved labor.
4
Nothing Like a Flying Start.
It may be, as the Russian agent of the
Soviet in Australia has asserted, that the
Soviet’s ability to market its various oil pro-
ducts at a much lower price than its com-
petitors can reach is not due to the slave-
labor conditions alleged to be general in
Russian industries. There is, says M. Rady-
gin, no foundation whatever for the anti-
Soviet propaganda in this respect.
Possibly M. Radygin is correct. For there
is this other great factor working in the
same direction: the industry started off free
from the heaviest handicap that every
industry in other countries has to carry—
subscribed capital, to wit. The Soviet seized
without compensation or any other satis-
faction the oil-production areas developed
by foreign capital, and the elaborate plants
attaching thereto. Small wonder if Russian
prices are on the low side!
The situation recalls the story of the
rival Lancashire “broom-squires”—a broom-
squire is, or was, an English institution who
made a living by cutting heather from the
moors, ash “plants” from the hedgerows,
and “binds” from the osier copses, and then
fashioning them into the “besom” which is
still universally used to sweep North of
England floors. Said one of these to another
when they met one day: “Sitha, laad, Ah
canna mak oot how tha oondersells me. Ah
steals t’ heths, Ah steals t’ plaants, an’ Ah
steals t’ binds.” Said the other: “Happen
it’s this waay, laad. Ah steals ma brooms
a’ ready maade.”
♦
North Queensland Development.
Queensland possesses in the tropical and
sub-tropical districts of the north-east coast
probably the largest area of rich and un-
touched agricultural land in Australia; the
comparatively small Atherton tableland,
bitten out of it, is ranked to-day among
the most prosperous of Australian farming
communities. The chief difficulty facing
the individual settler, apart from the general
financial situation, is that most of the un-
settled part of the tableland and coastal
belt is practically roadless, and to all intents
and purposes inaccessible. Government
backing, which helped to open up the
Atherton country in earlier days, is not
available in these times of stress.
Some time ago the State Government
appointed a Commission to report on the
development of North Queensland, especi-
ally in connection with land settlement and
forestry. One of the most important
features of the report submitted was the
recommendation that the opening up of the
rich jungle lands of the North, which neither
individuals nor the State can at present
finance, should be handed over to private
enterprise. The Commission particularly
dwelt on the possibilities afforded by Cook-
town, a once considerable port which came
into existence as the result of the discovery
of the Palmer goldfield. Some 70 miles
of railwaj' constructed in those days is still
in working order from Cooktown inland.
Cooktown itself is an excellent port, and
the country behind it, much of it heavily
mineralised, is rich tropical forest, splen-
didly watered and enjoying a good, regular
rainfall. Timber resources are extensive and
valuable, while there are possibilities in
marine fisheries and marine products. The
port is within easy reach of the markets of
eastern Asia, and lies on the direct route of
several lines of steamers.
The report recommended that an area in
the Cooktown district of 6400 square miles
(80 miles square) should be made available
to an approved British company with a
capital of at least £1,000,000, the area to
include the harbor and the railway to the
Laura River. To attract capital, special
privileges, under due safeguards, and includ-
ing perhaps a charter, are suggested, the
company in its turn to undertake specific
obligations, such as a fixed ratio of settle-
ment by Europeans, road-building, etc., the
mining of payable gold discovered, and
other undertakings, including a guarantee
of an early start upon the development of
the concession on indicated lines. Thirty
years is suggested as the life of the fran-
chise. At the expiration of the period the
company would be left to work out its
destiny on its own feet and under normal
conditions.
The scheme is ambitious, but appears to
be entirely practicable. W. L. Payne, chair-
man of the Commission, who is the chief
sponsor of it, is a very capable adminis-
trator, and, as chairman of the Land
Administration Board and the Prickly-pear
Commission, has had exceptional ex-
perience to back his opinions. The chief
obstacle to success is the political atmo-
sphere of Australia to-day; there is the
danger that with a chartered company estab-
lished by one faction, the next to assume
office would set about cancelling the policy
of its predecessors. This danger particu-
larly threatens from Labor, always intolerant
of vested interests, irrespective of their
value to the community. If, however, by the
mercy of Providence, a company founded
on the lines indicated waS fortunate enough
to succeed before an antagonistic partv
assumed political control of the State, that
danger might be lessened. The voting power
of a community prosperously settled under
the auspices of such a scheme would be a
contingency with which the most rabid over-
tblower of other people’s idols would have
to reckon.
Production and Credit.
Correspondents continue to discuss (gener-
ally at great length) whether the world can
afford to buy all it produces. In all but a
few cases the Douglas plan is rejected; on
the other hand there is a pretty general
belief that the world’s monetary arrange-
ments are not adequate.
“Reg R. Newlands” puts the case as well
as any:—
I cannot agree with the A plus B theorem of
Major Douglas ; yet I do think that in general there
is a discrepancy between total prices of goods for
final consumption and total purchasing power.
Total money incomes are made up of the" four
items—wages, profits, interests and rents. During
the same period the total prices of goods for sale,
i.e., costs to the final consumer, are made up of
the same wages, profits, interests and rents (deprecia-
tion charges will appear either as wages or profits),
livery contribution to price is a part of somebody’s
income, and vice versa. Thus, if all incomes are
spent in buying the production that earned them
(or equivalent goods and services exchanged with
other communities), the total incomes will cancel
total prices and there will be no surplus production.
Suppose, fuither, that some part of incomes is
saved for capital expansion (and for convenience in
calculation let us assume that over some period
total incomes and total prices are £1000). If
£lOO of this is not spent by those people who
earn it for buying goods for final consumption, but
is invested in building a factory, the purchasing
power will be passed on to the people who supply
tile factory and will eventually be spent in buying
the pioduction in which the incomes originated.
Thus during this period of capital expansion there
will be no discrepancy between prices and purchasing
power.
But in some later cycle another sum of, say,
£lOO will be saved out of incomes and used to
produce more goods in the new factory or factories.
Suppose a profit of £2O is required for the in-
vestors, the extra prices created will amount to
£l2O, making a total of prices of £ll2O, against
which there will be a purchasing power of £lOOO
only. If the goods from the new factories are sold
those of the old factories cannot be all disposed of
at the price required for continuation of production.
Profits will diminish or vanish altogether, and the
result will be a slump, unless £l2O worth of goods
can be exported to some foreign market without
receiving an equivalent of imports. Thus it would
seem that a depression must occur unless the com-
munity concerned can (a) export continually a
greater total money’s worth of goods than it imports
or (6) have a continual expansion of its internal
currency to compensate for the reinvestment of
savings in industry, so that its ever-increasing volume
of production can be exchanged at a practically
constant price level. The former is obviously im-
possible when attempted by practically every country
in the world. This brings us to the question whether
our monetary system will allow the alternative
(&), i.e., the creation and issue of new currency as
production increases, in such a manner as not to
further disturb the balance between total prices and
purchasing power.
On this question another Reginald, the
ex-Chancellor McKenna, Chairman of the
Midland Bank, has written something worth
repeating:—
If the price level be unchanged an increase in'the
volume of trade will require an increase in the
volume of bank credit and currency, that is to
say, of money. It follows then that when. 1 trade is
improving and the unemployed are being absorbed
into industry, if the price level is to remain stable
monetary policy should be directed to an increase
in the supply of money The essential condition
to justify an addition to the supply of money is
that a greater volume of goods should be in course
of production. We have deliberately to make up
our minds as to what we want. If we mean to get
rid of unemployment we must have more money in
existence to take up the increased production; if
we mean to reduce our present amount of money we
shall not escape unemployment.
But McKenna again and again warns
against inflation. Thus:—
When a Government shrinks from raising sufficient
revenue by taxation to cover its current expenditure
and makes good the deficiency by borrowing from
banks, it is inflation of a kind that deserves un-
qualified condemnation.
And he insists that economy may be more
important than taxation:—
Our present scale of taxation I , believe to be so
high as to undermine our national business energy
and enterprise and to deprive us of indispensable
capital. There is only one remedy, which we must
face with all the determination and resolution at
our command. We must reduce expenditure.
The conclusion of the whole matter is
that the troubles of the world are not due
wholly to the failure of our monetary ■
system, inadequate as that is. They are
largely political. Nor will they be righted
wholly by changes in either the monetary
or the banking system. We must look for
more political wisdom; and political wisdom
in this matter consists chiefly of inspiring
confidence that contracts will be honored.
4
The Lamed Lion.
Babu Sen Gupta, a Bengali from Calcutta,
recently announced that, if Britain does
not promptly comply with India’s demand
for independence, Bengal will lead an appeal
to arms, with the result that Swaraj (Home
Rule) will be a question of only a few
hours.
That such a challenge should come from
a Bengali, one of a race despised and 'ridi-
culed as curs by every other in India, is
interesting and significant. It shows more
clearly perhaps than anything else could
do the progress which the Communist
movement against Britain has made in
Asia. Had a representative Rajput or Sikh
thrown out such a challenge, you could
have been sure that Britain was not sick;
these people, worthy friends and formid-
able foes, would scorn to challenge a lamed
lion. The Bengali would never challenge
anything else—and the deeper the wound '
the braver the challenge.
Seventeen years ago Britain was in great
danger, and the world knows the answer
of its own people to the call, and the answer
of its sons and daughters abroad. The
British Empire, no longer an Empire but
a Commonwealth of Nations, is in at least
as great peril to-day as ever it was in 1914-
18. Democracy was in danger then; more
than democracy—our very civilisation—is in
danger now. The menace of the German
has been succeeded by the infinitely worse
one of the Muscovite.
Britain has given its answer to the chal-
lenge at a general election. Australia,
denied anything in the way of a general
election till next May, is giving its answer
in a long series of concessions to the enemy.
And the people are accepting these con-
cessions with such apathy that the enemies
of this Empire, this Commonwealth of
Nations, are already able to take the con-
trol of trade and commerce out of the
hands not only of the Government, but
even of the trades unions.
It is time we realised how far the drift
has gone. A Bengali throwing a challenge
into the face of British sovereignty in
India, and a German backed by a Dutch-
man throwing a challenge into the face of
British sovereignty in Australia, are signs
that ought to guide us.
4
Free Education.
From a high-school teacher:—
One of the most flagrant extravagances indulged
in by our bankrupt Governments is free secondary
education. Why education should be free at all is
hard to understand, but once a child is beyond the
age of 14 its education becomes a luxury and- should
be treated accordingly. Many argue that because
it is compulsory up to 14 it should be free. It. is
compulsory to wear clothes, but the Government does
not hold itself responsible for providing them.
Again, nothing undermines our power of apprecia-
tion of a thing so much as ease in attaining it.
Free secondary education is rapidly fostering an
undesirable trait in the minds of the parent and
the child, particularly in the country, where there
is little or no barrier to admittance, due to lack
of competition.
This was made very evident recently when fees
were asked from all intermediate candidates. To
quote one parent: “Free cdjercashun! My ’Uda's
’ad ter buy all ’er own exercise-books, and me and ■
’er father’s ’ad ter find a pound a week ter board
’er this last three years, and now yer want ten
and sixpence ter let her be examined, and yer call
it free edjercashun! We’ll take ’er away alto-
gether’’ ; and with a glorious feeling of having won
the day she retreated. These sentiments were
expressed with a slightly better regard for grammar
by the girl herself, and next day she left with
her smattering of French and her introduction to
trigonometry (which she “always knew was mad,
anyhow”), and she will soon be a useful person
on the farm, where she should have been for the
past three years.
There are hundreds of ’lldas, and ’Arolds, too, in
our country high schools who are born laborers,
farmers and domestics; yet we almost beg them to
come and be taught Latin and physics and algebra
lest our fine buildings should be wasted. The
parents are not to blame so much as our educational
system itself. The parents in nine cases out of ten
know nothing of the aims or methods of secondary
education, and are to a large extent disinterested. .


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED. 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
Until Tom Gluyas died the Central No. 1
division of the South Aus. Leg. Council had
four Labor members. It corresponds
roughly to the Federal Labor electorates of
Adelaide and Hindmarsh (Port Adelaide),
and a Liberal rarely contests it. But Joseph
Anderson, a Port Adelaide alderman, with
the backing of the new Citizens’ League, has
won the by-election hands down. He
wound up with 9827 votes, whereas Bar-
dolpli, tin 1 Gang-plan man, got 3589 and
Stephens, the Trades Hall candidate, 3424.
Many of Anderson’s supporters had dis-
gustedly refused to exercise the franchise at
the Adelaide Assembly by-election, at which
a Gang-planner got in. They were thoroughly
aroused on Saturday, and, along with thou-
sands of other gsod. South Australians, they
have delivered \coir State from the menace
of Sydney push politics and pronounced
the doom of the unspeakable “plan.”
Makin, Speaker of the House of Reps.;
Yates, M.H.R., and Senator Knecbone cam-
paigned for the Trades Hall nominee in
“When in Adelaide speaking for the Lang-plan
candidate, Mr. Gosling, known in N.S.W. as the
Minister for Tin Hares, attended a seaman’s mission
meeting. The chairman, who understood that lie
was going to make a spiritual address, was astonished
to find that Mr. Gosling started on a political address,
and hastily closed the meeting.”
MRS. GOSLING: “Is it the Bible or the Tin
Hare you’ll be wanting this trip, Mark?”
Saturday’s by-election, but not Senators
Daly and O’Halloran or Premier Hill and
his Ministers. The Trades Hall has expelled
them. For the Gang-planner .N.S.W. Min-
isters Davidson, Tully, Gosling, Lamaro,
McGirr and Federal Representatives Eld-
ridge, Ward and Lazzarini “did . splendid
work.” At least, the “Labor Daily" says
so, and it is Lang's paper; it declares also
that “the party organisation was perfect.”
This helps to explain the Hawkesbury report
that Lang spent most of Sunday gazing
moodily at his prize bull.
It is grateful and comforting and all that
sort of thing, of course, to find that exports
have got such a lead on imports; but it
isn’t all grateful and comforting. Compar-
ing N.S.W. imports for the first quarter of
the last three fiscal years we get this remark-
able shrinkage: 1929, £17,267,503; 1930,
£8.837,119; 1931. £4,456,029. It looks
splendid—until we realise that the only
reason why we haven’t imported a great
deal more •of some lines is that we haven’t
had the money. The next worst thing to
importing things you don’t want and could
make is not being able to import things you
do want and can’t make.
The Hogans (Vic.) had another narrow
squeak when challenged about the stoppage
of promotions in the Education Department
and the withholding of allowances to teach-
ers in remote country districts. Moncur,
the Cocky member for Walhall-a, moved the
adjournment- of the House this time, and
was supported by all the non-Laborites pre-
sent except Gray and GJowrey. Had one of
Allan’s followers not been absent Speacock
would have had to save the Ministry with
his casting vote.
Declaring that the Irish Free State is
threatened with another civil war, the Cos-
grave Government has suspended trial by
jury, set up a military tribunal with power
to have conspirators shot, and proclaimed 32
organisations illegal. Among these are the
Labor Defence League, the Workers’ Defence
Corps, the Workers’ Revolutionary Party,
the Workers’ Research Bureau —all Moscow-
blessed concerns with Australian analo-
gues—and the Friends of. Soviet Russia.
The Friends of Soviet Russia have a branch
in Australia, and just before the decree .of
outlawry was issued in Ireland they applied
for the use of Sydney Town Hall on the anni-
versary of their beautiful Revolution. Aider-
man Shannon, M.L.A., and Alderman O’Dea
were for letting them have it, and were
highly indignant when their motion was
defeated. A few remarks from these
worthies on Cosgrave’s measures would now
be interesting.
The Lang Government goes blundering on.
Its Rent Reduction Act has bewildered the
whole N.S.W. real-estate world. Its Mora-
torium Act has moved a Supreme Court
Judge to declare that he never saw a more
slipshod measure. Now its Transport Act
threatens to bring Sydney’s excellent ’bus
services to a standstill. The proprietors
have been commanded to pay the Govern-
ment a penny a section per adult passenger,
and a halfpenny a section per child, with-
out increasing fares; and the fares are, in
most cases, a penny a section, after the
first, for adults and a penny the whole
journey for children. The proprietors have
thrown up their hands in despair, and given
their 4000-odd employees a week’s notice.
Well, at least we can be thankful for this:
Governments in our great-grandfather’s day
didn’t start a national bullock-waggon ser-
vice. Had they done so, we should probably
now have to pay a tax of a shilling a mile if
we wanted to ride in a privately-owned
horse-cart.
The British general election, and the
events that led up to it, strikingly recall
the Australian political situation in 1917.
In each case a Labor Prime Minister broke,
with his party in an emergency, and remained
in office with the help of the anti-socialists
-—to be repudiated by the Labor machine and
reviled by the mob. And MacDonald and
his followers call themselves “National”
Labor and the other faction “Official” Labor,
just as Hughes and his remnant did. One
difference is that the Conservatives are not
repeating the folly of the “Liberals” who
fatuously surrendered their organisation to
Hughes. Another is that MacDonald tried
to hold his Labor seat, whereas Hughes ran
away from his.
How the bitterest political enemies can
cling together in the face of a common danger
was seen in Queensland the other day when
Arnold Wienliolt moved that the railway
passes of members be abolished. The House
sat in stunned silence; only when another
Independent, T. A. Dunlop, seconded the
motion, did it take action. Arnold and
“Tad” were the solitary Ayes.
Having completed the transfer of his
Savings Bank to the Commonwealth, which
went to the rescue when there was a run
on the institution and only £300,000 in the
safe, Jimmy Mitchell, the Westralian Pre-
mier, has brought in a Secession Referen-
dum Bill. Jimmy has a Sydney counterpart
in Gibson, of tins A.F.A.L., which began as
non-party, then formed a party of its own,
then declared for alliances with (1) the
Riverina movement. (2) the Country party
and (3) the Nationalists, and has now in-
vited Federal Labor to “subscribe to . a
policy for the rehabilitation of Australia” —
"Perhaps we’re not too old yet, Gibby. Now
you step on my hand and do a flip-
flap"
all in six or seven months. What a pair of
acrobats Jimmy and Gibby would have made!
If Mitchell’s bill passes, and if the refer-
endum succeeds, there will arise the ques-
tion what to do next. The Constitution, like
constitutions in general, doesn’t provide for
secessions, hut any place can secede from
any other place on earth if it is sufficiently
numerous and sufficiently ferocious. In tliis
case the Commonwealth owns the principal
bank, nearly all the savings banks, the post
offices, telegraphs and telephones, the trans-
continental railway, the customs and excise
offices, the military and naval arrangements,
the Federal Treasury and the High Court.
They will all go on as usual after a formal
secession unless the usurping Government
does something which will force the Com-
monwealth to take it seriously. The lynch-
ing of a Federal postman in Hay-street,
Perth, might suffice as a formal defiance.
The “seaman” who is alleged to have been
victimised because he wasn’t permanently
appointed to a sick Australian’s job on s.s.
Canberra turns out to be the notorious Joe
JAKE JOHNSON (with, chorus of hardy Aus-
tralian mariners) :—
Now pay der union fee, und neffer go ter
sea
Und you’ll boss de Aussie schipping drade,
yoost like me.
Sclielley, alias Sliellcy (imp.)- Joseph
bobbed up in Perth about 10 years ago in
company with bis sister. _ The lady organ-
ised an unsuccessful strike of restaurant
waitresses which cost scores of girls their
jobs—one result was that the tearoom in
Perth’s biggest department store went out
of action. Since then Joseph’s gin-case ful-
minations against Briddish Imberialism and
der gabitalistic seestem have been heard in
most parts of Australia where there was
work-stopping to be done—he figured in the
skiting, though not conspicuously in _ the
fighting, on the Newcastle-Maitland coalfields
in 1930 —and Scullin fervently wishes that
the Bruce-Pages had deported the fellow,
though he would have denounced them for
doing it.
The House of Reps, looked surprised when
Scullin railed at Sclielley and his asso-
ciates of the Seamen’s Union who so rarely
go to sea; for the Priminister had never been
known to acknowledge that a “worker,” in
liis relations with the loathsome capitalist,
could do anything wrong. Still, an ounce
of action is worth an ocean of Priminis-
terial oratory in these matters, and poor
old Australia never gets action. Canada
does. A Scotch agitator who was con-
cerned in a recent Communist riot at Van-
couver has been sent back to his own coun-
try. Says the Calgary “Herald,” evidently
expressing the sentiments of all good Cana-
dians :
Canada, cannot afford to harbor within her borders
chose who by word or act encourage disrespect for
or the overthrow of constituted authority in a revo-
lutionary manner. Those who attempt that sort of
thing, whether they be English, Irish, Scotch or of
foreign birth, should be speedily returned to their
native shores.
Compare the consideration extended to
N.S.W.’s most notorious Scotch agitator,
who boasted in Russia that “revolution has
stepped on the stage in Australia,” and who
is to be Thud Mayor of Sydney if the machine
can manage it. Canada deports its foreign
nuisances; Australia rewards them.
In Britain, as in Australia, political Labor
does things that aren’t done by the older
parties. Snowden, in order to overwhelm
Henderson, has been disclosing not only the
discussions but even the voting lists of the
Cabinet to which both belonged. Beasley
infringed the same unwritten rule in con-
nection with the Jake Johnson case. It is
unspeakably unfair fighting. If a Minister
cannot speak freely and conscientiously in
Cabinet without fear of betrayal, his only
safe course is to stick to party shibboleths.
Four of the five N.S.W. Ministers who
have been neglecting their duties to take
part in a trifling Adelaide by-election get
£1463 p.a. each; the fifth (Lamaro) gets
£1564 p.a. Their railway passes are good for
all the State and Commonwealth railways.
Nothing more ridiculous can be imagined
than the spectacle of this collection of duds
going from the State of the burst bank, the
125,000 unemployed and the nine-million
deficit —the State which erected swindling
into a system and couldn’t pay its own
employees—to give unsolicited advice to
another State, but then a thick head ami an
impenetrable hide are the principal qualitica-
tions of a Lang Minister.
In view of Japan’s action in Manchuria
and its obvious lack of enthusiasm tor tne
League of Nations and the Kellogg I act, it
is comforting to reflect (at least, sor P e
people might find it comforting) that the
Scullidores are preparing to send a Labor
gentleman to a disarmament conference in
Europe. When the vote, £2OOO, was ob-
jected to the Prime Minister struck an
attitude and said: “If this Government
stands for anything it stands for general
disarmament; we should show the world
what we are doing and induce others to
follow our example.” If the Labor gentle-
man must have his trip it would be cheaper
to send him to Tokio or Mukden, and just
as effective. The Japs would treat him
politely.
The question is whether Nationalists
warnings in September and October or
Lang’s development of his “plan ’ in L ebruary
and March caused the run on and the suspen-
sion of the Savings Bank on April 20. Ihe
State’s official banking returns don't leave it
in much doubt. Lang’s talk of repudiation
in February and March reduced the average
of fixed deposits in N. S. Wales banks from
G 7 millions in the Jan.-March quarter to 04
millions in the April-June quarter; and
they were down to 01 millions in July-feept.
Meantime quarter by quarter the averages
in Victoria have climbed without a break
from 02 millions as at Sept., Dot), to bo
millions in Sept., 1931. Since started
talking about his precious “plan ’ N.S. W . has
lost over six millions of fixed deposits and
Vic. has gained five millions. As for money
that could be shifted without notice, it lias
been shifted with such enthusiasm that in
the 12 months of Lang misgovern men t N. S.
Wales has lost a total of £11.781,000 ol
deposits of all sorts,
Britain wants a tariff which will reduce
its imports with a rush and set its own
people to manufacturing all sorts of things
that they have been buying abroad. It
declared the Freetrade dogma infallible for
a good while, but the test came, and it is
better to be a live success than a dead
failure.
“Wonderful the hold Communism has got
on the people!”
“My oath! Look at that queue—all trying
to be capitalists!”
The N.S.W. Congregationalists have a
committee which keeps an eye on politics.
This body reported to the Congregational
Union on matters of laud and finance ("8.
M. Herald'’ 23/10/’3l) in a free, boyish
fashion:— /
The most important man-made law which makes
for unemployment is that which regulates the
private possession of land. We should abolish all
commodity taxation —tariff, sales tax, etc.—and
secure the necessary revenue by the appropriation
of ground rent, i.e., by taxing unimproved land
values. The abolition of commodity taxation would
bring N.S.W. back to the days of 1896-1901, when
this was the cheapest country in which to live
A by-product would be the cutting down of the
cost of government by probably 80 per cent.
Yet as early as Deuteronomy there was a
divinely-made law’ to regulate the private
possession of land, and off and on through
Scripture appear curses on the man who
interferes with the rights of the private
landlord. One of the rare land-nationalisers
of early days was Aliab, who wanted
Naboth’s private property for the State,
Ahab being the State. One curious result
was that his widow was eaten by dogs.
Nowadays the Russians are the only people
of any importance who have repudiated the
private possession of land. The results
haven’t been so splendidly beneficial as the
Congregationalist committee promises that
they would be in Australia.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S" INKS"
‘C.Q.’ : Springvale (Yic.) had the excite-
ment of its life the other evening. The cir-
cus had come to town, and the populace was
watching the lion-tamer enter the den of
the king of beasts. The showman slammed
the door behind him, but, owing to the cage
being on uneven ground, it failed to catch;
the animal perceived its opportunity, and
quick as a flash shot through the opening.
Pandemonium promptly broke loose. Men,
women and children fought for the exits.
One citizen took refuge in the ticket-box.
Twenty boys shinned up the poles and clung
to the toil of the tent, which swayed under
the weight of more refugees outside. Mean-
Grae the lion, having emptied the house more
effectively than the last turn on a vaudeville
programme, crawled under the tent flap,
knocking two circus-goers over in the pro-
cess, and took up a position in a paddock,
where attendants surrounded it all night
with pocket torches. The only living things
that slept that night in Springvale were the
lion and the babies. Even the township’s
horses spent an uneasy vigil. There being
no such thing as economic freedom in this
world, the runaway quietly re-entered its
cage in the morning in pursuit of a piece of
meat. It had been born in captivity, though
that, isn’t to say that its feral instincts
might not have been aroused if it had got
properly away and known hunger.
* : i : :J:
“Quo Vadis”: The death of any famous
man whose religious beliefs are known to
have been unorthodox or suspected of having
been non-existent is always sufficient to
start a mild controversy as to what he did
believe in ; Edison’s was the latest instance.
But as one of the remarks attributed to
him on his deathbed touching a future state
was a simple “No one knows,” there wasn’t
much to be said. Years ago when some well-
meaning busybody asked him if he thought a
man could go to Heaven Edison replied that
it would be as logical to talk of “the State
of. New York going to Heaven,” the idea
being, I suppose, that every human being
is just a collection or community of innu-
merable. cells, good, bad and indifferent. As
a strikingly original view from the most
alert brain of his generation, it seems to
have the makings of a new creed in it. but
I have never heard of anyone, even in
America, attempting to formulate one.
* * *
“X.S.” : If an Australian novelist wants
a subject for a study of human psychology
he could do worse than consider the career
of Melbourne’s champion litigant, Rupert
Millane. About six years ago Millane com-
menced building a house of kerosene-tins on
an allotment at Ivanhoe. He was eventually
stopped by the shire council on the ground
that the proposed edifice did not comply
with the local building regulations. He may
be a village Hampden or the victim of a
persecution complex, but since then he has
put up a record for legal processes, both
for writs issued for and against himself.
He issued hundreds of writs out of the
Heidelberg court and scores elsewhere.
Finally a special Act was passed preventing
him from bringing an action without the con-
sent of a Judge of the Supreme Court. Then
he took to operating illegal ’bus services,
and the mist of legal proceedings became
thicker than ever. His knowledge of the
law became so extensive that I have seen
him argue a magistrate into a state of com-
plete mental confusion. His litigation has
reduced him to bankruptcy, and he owes
the State £957 for fine’s imposed for offences
against the ’Bus Acts. He has since van-
ished. The Court recently sentenced him in
his absence to imprisonment for three years
and three w r ecks on 19 charges. One of the
most spectacular feats of a career which
now appears to have ended w r as Millane’s
pegging out of a claim in the middle of
Queen-street, Melbourne, under an Act which
he believed made public thoroughfares open
to mining enterprise.
* * * *
“R.H.”: In justice to George Dean I
should like to give “D.M.’s” par. (B.
14/10/’3l) an emphatic contradiction. As
to his whereabouts it is sufficient to say
that he has been in the employ of my father
and myself for some years past, and previ-
ous to that was on a well-known station in
N.S.W. He was never near Kalgoorlie in
his life, and has never changed his name or
sought to deny his identity. There are
plenty of people in our district who can sup-
port my statement that he rehabilitated him-
self and became a useful and respected mem-
ber of the community after he had paid
the price demanded by the law for his lapse.
MIGHT LEAD TO SOMETHING BETTER.
“Thanks for the birthday present you sent me, Auntie.”
“That’s all rigid, Billie. It wasn’t much to thank me for.”
“No, but Mum told me to thank you all the same.”
“Chevroford”: Doorstep fathers are now
out of fashion. A Melbourne citizen stepped
briskly out of a house where lie had been
spending the evening playing bridge, opened
the door of his car and found a baby in it.
He was an adopted parent for as long as it
took him to drive to the Berry-street found-
ling home.
“Uramao”: There is one
M.L. shopkeeper whose opinion
of the Great Unpaid is un-
printable. It arose from his
being haled before, the local
J.P. for selling short-weight
bread. The scales were tested
and were discovered to be
weighing-in light. The shop-
keeper was fined £5 and re-
ceived a severe lecture on his
flagrant treatment of customers.
The sting of the business was
that the J.P., also a shopkeeper,
had sold accused the scales
after they had done duty in his
own shop for years!
“S.T.S.”: The luck of the game! An
Adelaide charity raked in shillings galore for
a guess at the weight of a bale of wool;
prizes from a motor-car downwards. Many
thousands of more or less experts viewed
and calculated; and then the winning guesses
—a tie—were by a lady milliner and a
country grocer who had never even seen
the thing.
“Jungor”: Westralian goldfields journal-
ism had some quaint pioneers. The first
man who got a
printing outfit over
the scorching track
between Geraldton
and the Murchison
—and that was be-
fore Coolgardie was
discovered —was au
acquisitive and not
particularly literate
Queenslander. The
Government pressed
on him the job. of
postmaster as a side-
line to his inky acti-
vities. Letters con-
taining money began
to go astray, and
the end of it was
that he retired to
Fremantle gaol for
18 mont h s. He
emerged full of
heart and new re-
solves, only to find
that his newspaper
claim had naturally
been jumped, where-
upon he essayed to
start a new organ
of public opinion in
a neighboring settle-
ment. But even in
a community that
was ever ready to
throw a veil .of
charity over a citi-
zen’s past the handi-
cap was heavy and
the going hard, and
when a particularly
aggrieved creditor
caused one of the
editor’s un-negoti-
ablc cheques to be
offered for sale at
usual Saturday auc-
tion, and ostenta-
tiously bought it in
for a penny, another
newspaper closed
down and its controller vanished into obli-
vion. It was a depressing ending to a
spirited adventure.
* * *
“Highbury”: Birmingham furnished the
setting for the first outbreak of hooliganism
at the British elections, the ex-Labor baronet
Oswald Mosley having to defend himself with
his fists, and doing the job to such purpose,
and apparently with so little discrimination,
that summonses for assault were subsequently
served on him. Rowdyism at election-time has
generally been a characteristic of the Mid-
lands city, or it may be that party feeling
runs higher there than in less strenuous
communities. It never ran higher than in
the middle ’eighties, when Joe Chamberlain
was at the zenith of his fame as a Radical
reformer and Tory stalwarts like Randolph
Churchill and Colonel Fred Burnaby hurled
themselves into the fray on the opposite
side. It took a strong force of police to
preserve anything approaching order when
Joe and his antagonists were fighting an
election. I fancy it was at Birmingham,
too, during the Boer War that Lloyd George,
after speaking on the unpopular side, had
to be spirited away through a side-door to
save him from the fury of the mob. In its
likes and dislikes, as in its mode of ex-
pressing either, “Brum” w T as always down-
right. '
* * * *
“Scentral”: A 1 Capone put up the thinnest
yet most popular defence known to the
criminal classes w’hen charged with income-
tax evasion :
Counsel for the defence rested their case exclu-
sively upon showing Capone’s immense losses in
betting on the races.
Nine morons out of ten, on being asked to
explain the unauthorised disappearance of
cash, say they lost it. to bookies, whose
names they can’t remember and whom they
don't know by sight. Years later they
come out of gaol, and find it has been dug
up and spent by friends. If required to
explain the possession of stolen money they
say it was won from unspecified pencillers,
as a result of bets on horses whose names
they have forgotten, in events which have
THINGS MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
THE GUSHER: “I’m so disappointed in George. You know, I’m
almost sure he married me for my money.”
THE CONSOLER: “Oh, well, he might have been more disappointed
if he had married you for anything else.”
slipped their memories. Or else total
strangers rushed up in the Paddock, forced
the money on them, and disappeared for
ever. A 1 Capone was able to do what male-
factors in a smaller way rarely can; he
put the men who were supposed to have
won his money in the box. One srrfd: —
The gangster wagered as high as 10,000 dollars
on a race, and almost consistently picked the wrong
horse.
But the Court didn’t believe a word of it;
Courts neyer do.
THE TONIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Justice McCardle, while strongly condemning
modern women’s extravagance in dress, admitted that
new clothes had a miraculously tonic effect. Nothing
brightened up a woman’s life more than a new dress
or hat, and the brighter the lives of the women
the brighter the lives of the men.” —London cable.
There are some who assert with conviction
profound
That it’s love which ensures that the world
shall go round:
And the axiom doubtless holds truth of a
sort,
For if folk didn’t pair the whole race would
stop short.
But the love you expect from a sweetheart
or wife
Isn’t wholly sufficient to liven up life.
You should never forget, for it’s equally true.
That the love of glad rags must be reckoned
with, too.
And the brighter that any
New things on her back
Makes Jessie or Jennie
The better for Jack.
What lyres have been twanged to the love
that’s displayed
By a maid for a man, or a man for a maid!
But I’ve noticed that poets infrequently
stress
The passion evoked by a hat or a dress.
’Tis a subject on which, it might well be
inferred.
Old Solomon might have found time for a
word
From a source to which none would autho-
rity grudge;
But ’twould seem he knew less than a
bachelor Judge
GENEALOGY.
FIRST VISITOR: “He’s got his father's head.”
SECOND VISITOR: “Yes, and his mother’s disposition .”
THE BOY (very rebellious ): “Yes, and he’s got his brother’s pants.”
Of the joy when she’s newly
Appareled and trim,
Not only for Julie
But also for Jim.
You doctors, who stick to the dreary routine
Of bucking-up potions like iron and quinine,
May I gently suggest that it’s time to invoke
The tonic that lurks in a blouse or a toque?
The virtue that’s hidden in stockings and
caps
Is not in the pharmacopoeia, perhaps;
But the keynote, I’ll swear, to felicity’s
there
In what cinctures her waist or is perched on
her hair.
And the finer Bess goes it
In flounce or in frill
Will life (if he knows it)
Be fuller for Bill.
I picture a world, t’otherside of the Bar,
Where butterflies frivol and humming-birds
are.
And every woman’s attire is so nice
That none could suppose she’d been wrapped
in it twice.
It strikes me a Heaven of this sort of things
Might have more attraction than haloes or
wings,
For there won’t be new fashions in these to
display,
And they’ll tend to get shopworn, whatever
you say.
Meanwhile don’t indict her
For vainness, your Ann;
The newer and brighter
Her bravery, the lighter
Existence for man.
N.S.W'.
T. THE R.


“Bloggs”: I got fresh evidence of the
onward march of the depresh the other
day; a Sydney tailor offered to turn my
suit.’ Hitherto, Australians have been too
loan-proud to wear turned clothes. In
England, the home of the shabby-genteel,
tailors have been turning coats for cen-
turies, and entire suits ever since trousers
became as important as coats. There are
West End of London tailors who are suit-
turners first and suit-makers as a side-
line, and garments dealt with by them enjoy
a double life. But the suits have to be
good to begin with. I am still wearing
WHEN IN DOUBT.
“D’you know, I’ve never been what I’d call really and truly
kissed,”
“Gee, tell us—are you boasting or begging?"
one that I bought for eight guineas in
the Bond-street area in 1916 (it would be
15 guineas now), and had turned by a Jer-
myn-street artist 10 years later.
“Lex”: I have no use for New Guards-
men on general principles, but Colonel
Campbell’s warriors may serve a useful pur-
pose before they demob themselves. Sydney’s
Schellcys, Johansons, Grants, Gardens,
etc., are aiming at an upheaval on the lines
of London’s abortive ’26 strike, unless their
weird overseas accents, have caused them
to be misunderstood. The British authori-
ties were, desperately afraid that the London
bobbies might have to go into action against
the- citizens, and so injure their reputation
for fatherly benevolence. Nine-tenths of
the London policeman’s prestige, and conse-
quent power over crowds, derive from his
readiness to help the weak and afflicted.
The same with the John Hops of Sydney.
Their manners may be curt at times; but
they are a thoroughly decent lot, and the
public’s friends on the whole. In the Eng-
lish strike the soldiers did all the dirty
work that was needed to_ save the situation
and preserve order, leaving the bobbies to
parade the city with their popularity intact.
The result was the force hadn’t to be in-
creased by "a single'man when the strike
ended. It would be a calamity 1 if the Syd-
nev police were asked to deal with local
strikers as l the British Guards did with
some Londoners at the Docks five years ago.
Australia has no regulars, but Colonel
Campbell’s followers should make _ fairly
efficient substitutes. They will be tried for
murder if they kill anyone; but then genuine
Guardsmen who fire on their fellow-country-
men undergo the same risk. During a riot a
soldier is liable, in Dicey’s phrase, “to be
shot by a court-martial if he disobeys an
order, and to be hanged by a Judge and
jury if he obeys it.”
* * sS *
“Southern C.”: Monash received scant
recognition of his services from Australian
Governments, Which even withheld from him
the rank of Field Marshal. Had he been
an English. French or German general the
highest military rank
would have been con-
ferred on him years
ago. Even when
the Scullin Govern-
ment asked him to
represent Australia
at the inauguration
of Delhi as the new
capital of India, it
cheapened the com-
pliment by refusing
to allow him to
select his own
A.D.C. In the
matter of military
distinctions Austra-
lians appear to suffer
from an inferi-
ority complex. Gen-
eral Chauvel showed
himself the greatest
of all cavalry lead-
ers in the war; but
the most gracious
gesture the Govern-
ment could make,
when it retired him,
was to offer to fur-
nish him with a
barracks horse whenever he should want a
ride. For many years no Australian in Aus-
tralia was considered a sufficiently distin-
guished soldier to be ranked above Colonel,
and this pitiful snobbery dies hard.
* * * *
“R.V.”: The Sky Pilot, which Arch-
bishop Head dedicated to mission work in
Melbourne and which has already flown
12,000 miles in the N.T. and Arnhem Land,
met with a reception recently that recalls
the early pioneering days. When Keith
Langford Smith was exploring a route
between mission stations in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria, he was in the act of descending to
ask the direction from an abo. camp. A
flight of spears went past him. one holing
the lower wing. He decided to inquire else-
where.
“H.S.”: London “Morning Post”
suggests the grim possibility of the
£ going to 6s. The British will
suffer in more than their pockets if
it does. I was in France in ’26
when the franc went to Id. You
could buy a perfectly good new suit
for 16s. Sd. (English), and have a
two-mile taxi ride
for 4d. The natives
wanted the money,
but they used to
wince miserably as
the foreigner paid in
the piles of paper
rubbish he had
bought with his own
good currency. And
French notes never
have held their heads
really high outside
France. , English
notes have been as
good as gold for
generations. Trad-
ers’ eyes have lighted
up in, the remotest
parts of the globe at
the sight of them.
It accounted for the
Briton’s confident,
not to say arrogant,
demeanor abroad be-
fore the war, and the
only reason he has
been humbler since
the Armistice is that
it found the £ shaky
for the first time in
living memory. A
private citizen who
has been rich feels
the same when shop-
keepers get reluctant
to take his cheques.
Picture the purse-
proud West End of
London full of Euro-
pean tourists tossing
devaluated fivers on
counters in exchange
for luxury goods. It
would be as humiliating as a lost war. The
honor of the currency means quite as much
as the honor of the flag to many Britons.
* * * *
“Bildad” : The N.S.W. policeman who wrns
found dead in the shallow river at Bende-
mcer (B. 21/10/’3l) still waits explana-
tion. He left home because an osten-
sible traveller wanted protection against an
ostensible lunatic who had molested him
on or underneath the bridge, which was real
and not ostensible. After the officer had
been found dead, with no definite signs of
violence on him, it was theorised that he had
taken poison first and then gone into the
water to make his snicide certain, but when
it transpired that what had been diagnosed
as strychnine was only an ordinary dose of
medicine, the Law was back at its starting-
point. A constable, who had apparently no-
thing to make him tired of life and nothing
to gain by death, had been called out, or said
he had been called, after dark, and was
found defunct in a river. Just now there
are a lot of people about who hold that a
policeman should be killed at sight as a
means towards the reconstruction of society.
To them one policeman is the same as an-
other, and the country policeman is in the
more danger because his bush contem-
poraries are scarce, and probably less sus-
picions as to the cause of his death than the
city cop. Also, the professional killer is
apt to be more frequent than usual in the
country, because he wants to collect the dole
in new surroundings, and because the city
knows him too well. When the question lies
between homicide and suicide it must be
kept in mind that homicide for no reason
except cussedness, “class-consciousness” or
suspicion, that the victim represents capital-
ism in some shape or form is perhaps 75
times as numerous as self-destruction from
the same causes. At a big political meeting
there may be a dozen policemen required to
prevent skull-fracture, and not one to pre-
vent the audience cutting its own throat or
drowning itself in its excitement.
ABSENT FRIENDS.
“Her husband was a judge, wasn’t he?”
“Everybody thought so till he married her.”
“R.A.W.”: Touching the vnrying mean-
ings of the word sterling (B. T/10/’.T) it
is rather hard to say what its exact signifi-
cance is to-day. It appears on three of every
five cheques passing through my hands, and
my duty requires me to examine hundreds
daily. Whether a man who makes out a
cheque for one hundred pounds sterling
thereby lets himself in for a liability of
one hundred and thirty “Australian pounds'
has yet to be tested. One bank in Melbourne
is taking no risks, anyhow. It instructs its
customers not to use the term on their
cheques, and the word “sterling” printed on
the bank’s own drafts is neatly ruled out
before issue.
* * * *
“Stiltstalking”; The Tape and Sealing-
wax Office did not perish with Dickens. A
few days ago a black-and-white artist of some
note was summoned to Sydney Customs
House and charged with the offence of having
a bundle of Continental illustrated papers
addressed to him. He explained that the
papers, which are found on every bookstall
throughout Europe, were instructive and
useful to him in his business. Later he
received a message stating that the inde-
cent and obscene publications” would be
destroyed. __ #
“Momokeni”: This sort of thing still hap-
pens in Papua. His Excellency and his staff
were interviewed by
some natives who
claimed they could
bring the dead to
life. Was not that
a good thing? Yet,
if so, why should
they be punished for
sorcery? “Well,”
lI.E. said, “yes, you
can kill a dog and
bring him to life
again, and then I
will believe you.”
So a d'og was
brought, and high
officials formed up
to see the miracle
performed. First of
all the natives tied
the dog’s mouth up,
then thumped it to
death. When dead
they started to bring
it to life; but the
dog was peeved, and
would not come to
life again. Now,
that would seem
like the dead-finish
for the native and
his sorcery. But
you don’t beat this
unsophisticated child
of nature as easily
as that. The white
man, he said, had
used pourri-pourri
(sorcery), too, and
his sorcery had this
day been stronger
than the black
man’s; wherefore
the dog remained
dead, and what was
his Excellency going
to do about that—a
perfectly good dog
dead, and killed by . _ „
the white man’s sorcery? His Excellency or
somebody said “Yes, that’s very interesting ’;
so the natives were given flour and rice to
make up for it, and they let his Excellency
have the dog.
* * # *
“Spokeshave”: A change is gradually com-
ing over the attitude of officialdom towards
Australian movie producers. When Tal
Ordell asked for permission to stage a simple
bit of farce in Centennial Park some years
ago, 20 letters passed between him and the
appropriate authorities. Now Melbourne
citizens are getting quite hardened to the
spectacle of Thring’s myrmidons descending
with their weird paraphernalia on the
streets and public places, l-fie ' > E b
Bloke, the Stror-’at Coot, Lore and
perform their evolutions ni tno
Gardens, with Max Factor make-up
faces, and draw no more than an thf ,
crowd; the police turn up to . J . j
populace back, not to move tllc ’ „
obstructionists on. American enHep
met with official opposition .until - pnt
of the screen as a national - t
was realised. Now they can co ™™ ai !” |nt
Army, Navy and anything else t y
“Gad,” on the track in Queensland: —
The other day, at Gordonvale, near Cairns, I
watched a bagman tearing up planks from the
bridge over the river there. He wanted to boil
his billy!
The condition of the travelling unemployed is
bad enough, but is being made infinitely worse by
irreconcilables who know no sense of gratitude and
are dead to all ordinary feelings of decency. I heard
of a mob the other day who were not content to
jump the train and pilfer freight, but broke open
the driver’s lunch-box and looted that at their free
journey’s end. In Cairns, on account of the unem-
ployed camp being really insufferable, the wharfles
allowed some of the bagmen to use their own shed.
One of the wharfles explained to me afterwards why
they had to close it subsequently against all bagmen.
He said: “The place was like a latrine within a
week. There’d be fellows lying in bed there till
eleven or twelve o’clock in the day. Things were
pinched wholesale. We’d had enough.”
At most of the sugar mills in Queensland the
bagman was always certain of a generous hand-out
of sugar. Now most of the mills have closed down
on that. They used to invade mills in broad day-
light and carry away sackfuls. One foreman at a
mill said to me lately: “I can’t give you even half
a pound. You’ve got to suffer for the others. They
were not content with sufficient for their needs. They
would take away eight or nine pounds at a time
and sell it in the town.”
The picture-show proprietors have been generous
in giving free seats to the travelling unemployed.
AFTER A HEALTH-WEEK LECTURE.
S.-S. TEACHER: “Now, which of you knows why the lions did not
attack Daniel when he was thrown into their den?”
DILIGENT INQUIRER: “Please, miss, they were vegetarians.”
But here again the travelling basher gang has
blighted our prospects. In Cairns the other day
they turned on one proprietor with abuse because
he would not provide free seats for them when the
place was full. At another theatre they broke some
of the fanlights for the same reason.
Most schools of arts, in country towns, allowed
the bagmen in to read — free. But now they are
tightening up. Papers were torn. Papers were
pinched. The fellows spat on the floor ; and in no
way did they show themselves in the least grateful
for the hospitality that was offered them.
Many of the travelling unemployed are now making
south for the summer. One hopes that- the basher
gang will go with them. It mostly professes to
believe in .Jack Lang.
THRIPS —A THRENODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We reckoned that our cup was full.
That scarce could be more stabs ana
stings
With all that’s happed to wheat and wool
And half a hundred other things.
Now there’s another pest that comes
’Mid curses deep from myriad lips;
Worse than the scarcity of thrums,
The sudden prevalence of tlirips.
A microscopic insect fell
That makes of fruit and flower its prey
And —so the dictionaries tell—
Of order Thysanoptcra.
It leaves one cold, the leanihd word
Devised for professorial lips.
My benison upon the bird
Who first contracted it to tlirips.
Old Egypt’s plagues were half a score
When Pharaoh wore the royal robe,
And there were miseries sharp and sore
That came to try the patriarch Job.
They had their share, that ancient pair.
Of scorpions and their whack of whips;
I wonder if this, too, was there,
And what the Hebrew was for thnps.
We fancied, optimistic souls,
We’d plumbed misfortune’s pool of pangs,
With debts and deficits and doles,
Disastrous Scullins, blatant Langs,
Gardens and Grants and ranting Beds
Who lure the sailors from the ships.
And now they’re in the garden beds,
These other more elusive tlirips.
Well, here’s another of the woes
With which the gods may scourge, to
curse.
To draw anathemas in prose
And maledictions shrill in verse.
Now entomologists discuss
Informatively, over nips,
And never train or tram or ’bus
But someone grows vociferous
Upon the bitter theme of tlirips.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


*7S
' '"'xsr.'t, ;
«• T ■ jW>
s>*
V
REDUCED COSTS are reflected by a Reduced Tariff
—but Quality and Service are maintained at the
same world-famous “Australia” standard.
Single Room . . 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- „ „
Single Room, with private bath and toilet, 1 7/6
per day; Double Room, with private bath and
toilet, from 30/- per day.
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum, 4/-
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
The
Australia
Hotel
fsd
NEW
Room
Only
RATES
Reduced Tariff
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some November birthdays :
Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst), 73; Prof. Skeats
(Melb.), 56, and sculptor Paul Montford, 63, on
Ist; J. P. Camm (W.A. Surveyor-Gen.), : 58, on
2nd; T. A. White (“Diggers Abroad”), 45, on
4th; Lancelot Stirling (Pres. S. Aus. Leg. Council),
82, and J. Maitland Paxton (Syd.), 78, on sth;
N.S.W. Senator W, Massy Greene, 57, on 6th;
Prof. Woodhouse (Syd), 65, and Atlee Hunt (formerly
of Federal Public Service), 67, on 7th; knight
Janies Elder (Melb".), 62, Rev. J. W. Grove (Prin-
cipal Methodist Ladies’ Coll., Melb.), 63, and
Janies Cowan (Boys’ Grammar School, BrisV), 76,
on 10th; knight Hugh Denison, 66, Prof. Cotton
(Syd.), 48j and Vic, Govt. Statist A. M. Laughton,
63, on 11th; Arthur, Lovckin, M.L.C. (W.A.), 72,
and Samuel Mauger - (formerly Federal Postmaster*
Gen.), 74, on 12th; Dr. Heavy (Vicar-Apostolic of
Cooktowii), 63, on 13th; Rabbi F. L. Cohen, 69,
and Dr. Battye (Perth Public Library), 60, on 14th;
Justice Long Innes (N.S.W.), 62, and knight Arthur
Rickard (Syd.), 63, on 17th ; War-historian Charlie
Bean, 52, and knight Norman Kater (N.S.W.), 57,
on 18th; ex-Vic. Gov. Earl Stradbroke, 69, Maurice
Blackburn, M.L.A, (Vic.), 51, and Col. Donald
Cameron, M.H.R. for Brisbane, 52, on 19th; Major-
Gen. G. W. Barber (Director-Gen. of Mledical
Sendees), 63, on 20th; Principal Griffith (Congre-
gational Coll. of Vic.), 56, oil 21st; Willie Watt
(formerly Federal Treasurer), 60, and Rev, E. R.
Gribble (“F.orty Years with the Aborigines”), 63,
on 23rd; Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 65, on 24th;
C J. Cerutty (Federal Auditor-Gen.), 61, and Col.
H. E. Cohen, M.L.C. (Vic.), 50, on 25th; Bishop
Cranswick (Gippsland), 49, and poet Rod Quinn,
62, on 26th; Kenneth Binns (Federal Parliamentary
Librarian), 49, on 28th; ex-Fed. Chief Justice
Adrian Knox, 68, Vic.’s Acting Chief Justice Cussen,
72, and Col. G. J. Bell, M.H.R. for Darwin (Speck),
59, on 29th; N.S.W. ex-Speaker Daniel Levy, 59,
and poet Sydney Jepheott, 67, on 30th.
The Earl of Jersey, grandfather of the
peer whose engagement to a Sydney girl is
announced, received a special mark of honor
from the Vic. Parliament some years after
he had been Gov. of N.S.W. in the ’nineties.
Jersey had spoken up for Australia when
early this century a dead set was being
made by certain London critics on Austra-
lian finances, and Bent, who was Premier
and Treasurer, felt grateful. After enter-
taining the Earl to lunch, he brought him
into the House and had a chair placed for
him beside the Speaker. After other repre-
sentative members had joined in the wel-
come, Madden called on his Lordship to
speak. Except Governors and Royal Com-
missioners, Jersey is the only “stranger” who
has spoken “within the bar” of the House.
This year for the first time Melbourne
Cup punters will have the option of losing
their money on the tote instead of to the
books. The man who, with inventor George
Julius, is most responsible is L. L. Ray-
L'. L. RAYMOND.
mond, general manager of Automatic Total-
isators. Brisbane-born, he is the great-grand-
son of the first man to think of putting
postage stamps on letters and gum on the
stamp’s back. Ilis grandfather was the first
sheriff of Melbourne: one of grandpa’s first
acts was to resign his job when he could
not find a substitute to hang a man and was
faced with the prospect of having to do’ the
job himself. L. L. Raymond was educated
at King’s College, Goulburn; he began his
business career in a brewery, served the
A.M.P. for 20 years, and has been in his pre-
sent company for 14 years. He has set up
totes in the “Far East,” India, Europe and
tt°o a -^ mei 'i ea » and in November goes to
U.SA. to see to the installation at Miami of
a machine which has been adapted to
America s peculiar fancies in odds, but is
entirely Australian-made.
Frank Clarke has returned, after a long
illness, to the Presidential chair in the Vic.
Upper House, which he has held for slightly
more than eight years. Of his seven prede-
cessors, Palmer and Mitchell had a tenure
of 14 years each, Wrixon and Davies nine
years each, Macßain eight years, and Mani-
fold four years. All are dead.
For close on 27 years V. B. Madden has
been pushing Vacuum Oil products in Aus-
tralia. At first a subsidiary, Colonial Oil,
operated in these parts, and Mr. Madden
introduced its goods to Melbourne. Since
“Vacuum Oil” MADDEN.
then lie has been up and down the eastern
half of the Commonwealth, from Cooktown
to Hobart, and for six years he has been, the
big eo.’s general manager in South Aus. From
the early days of aviation he has been greatly
interested in it; he was a foundation
member of the Aero Club of N. S. Wales
and a member of the first committee of the
S.A. Aero Club.
The party leaders in the British elec-
tions are all much of one age. Ramsay
MacDonald was born in ’66 and Baldwin
in ’67. Henderson dates from ’63 and so
does Lloyd George. Snowden, whose broad-
cast speeches have perhaps been the most
arresting feature of the elections, arrived in
’64. Simon and Thomas are of a slightly
later vintage, ’73 and ’75 respectively.
Arnold Wall, who is retiring from the
Chair of English at Canterbury (M.L.)
University College, was born in Ceylon, where
his father lived for nearly 50 years, in 1869.
Mostly self-taught in his boyhood, he began
teaching 45 years ago and acquiring academic
distinctions at the same time, among them the
degree of M.A. (London) by “private study,”
and that of B.A. (Cambridge) by “Research
Upon the Scandinavian Elements' in the Eng-
lish Dialects.” He taught in the University
College of Aberystwith (Wales) before com-
ing to Maoriland to occupy the post which he
has held for 33 years. The professor, who
has published several volumes of verse, has
been a contributor to The Bulletin for the
past 20 years.
Newton James Moore, sometime Premier
of Westralia, whom the British general elec-
tions have caught on this side of the world,
has had little reason to worry over the
results of a candidature carried on in
absentia. Fortune has been kind to Moore,
who holds in Richmond (Surrey) one of
the safest Conservative boroughs in the U.K.
At the last elections he polled 23,148 votes,
a Laborite coming second with 9520 and a
Liberal third with 6802. This time he has
a Labor opponent only.
The ashes of that notable portrait painter
Tom Roberts, who died last month at
Kallista (Vic.), were interred, by his own
wish, in the little churchyard at Illawarra
(Tas.), 12 miles, from Launceston. It was
in the adjoining church that the artist was
married.
Arthur Robins, who has just passed out
at 75, was dispenser to the Manchester
Unity O. of 0., in the old Castlereagh-
stree't (Sydney) building, for half a century.
In the old days the dispensary was a busy
place, with a doctor in attendance, and
casualties and minor operations a daily
occurrence. “Robbie” endeared himself to
everyone by his unfailing cheeriness, and
many a Maequarie-street practitioner of
to-day will retain pleasant memories of him.
He learnt his business at the Sydhey Hos-
pital.
Real advances in science are made very
slowly. It is eight years since Dr. Duffield
and W. B. Rimmer started, with crude
apparatus associated with a water-tap at
the Hotel Canberra, to investigate the
phenomena of solar radiation. Duffield has
since died, but Rimmer still continues the
work at Stromlo, ’Berra. As a result of
these studies and others being made in
foreign countries it may eventually be pos-
sible to forecast weather conditions very
much further ahead than is feasible at
present. The Finns insipnis , which has been
planted so plentifully at Canberra, is help-
ing in the investigations, variations in its
rate of growth having been brought into
relationship with variations in the energy
sent out by the sun.
“Centurion” : Tom McCrystal, who aroused
a little flutter in bourgeois circles last week
with a Sydney Domain speech, in which he
averred that the toilers had supplies of
machine-guns, rifles and bombs to enable
them to shake off their chains, is as mild
a Bolshie as never cut a throat. He was a
non-com. in the Ist A.L.H., and after being
wounded on Gallipoli acted for some time as
mess sergeant at the officers’ mess at Helio-
polis. Even then he was always ready to
hold forth on politics to those willing to
listen.
“.Tacky Boo” (Bond.) : Another Lindsay
prodigy, Phil, is on the threshold of literary
success. After vainly trying to place some
Australian novels in London, he turned to
the traditional Lindsay theme, swashbuckling
and the Spanish Main. Harrap’s reader
expects the novel to be in the best-seller
class; it’s called “Captain Henry Morgan.”
Death has been taking a heavy toll of
leading educational workers in Tic. as well
as Tas. Senior-inspector Russell’s sudden
passing was followed by that of Dr. Leach.
T. 11. Stuart was the next to go, to be fol-
lowed by R. IT. Greenwood, who introduced,
under Frank Tait, the agricultural high-
school system. There are few public ser-
vants who have more work and worry than
school inspectors, and the strain often snaps
them before their time.
Queensland Agent-General E. 11. Macart-
ney/back in Australia on leave from London,
to which he may • or may not return,
was born in County Down, Ireland, 68 years
ago, his dad being Commissioner of Police
in Ceylon. Educated at Irish schools, he
came to Queensland in 1883 and joined the
Q. N. Bank in Brisbane ; later he turned to
the law. being admitted as a solicitor in
1891. Macartney began a notable career
in the State Assembly when he was elected
for Toowong in 1900. He became Min-
ister for Lands, and after Labor arrived in
L. K. S. MACKINNON,
Chairman of the V.R.C.,
whose Cup meeting
begins on Saturday.
office in 1915
he led the
O p p o sition
for several
years. He
has always
been popu-
lar with all
classes, and
devoted to
every form
of spo r t;
though never
a distinguish-
ed performer,
he can claim
to be the
father of
golf in
Queensland.
R. I). Boys
retires from
the job of
chief libra-
rian of Mel-
bourne Pub-
lic Library
at the statu-
tory 65. He
bas done
fine work
there witli-
ou t any
craving for
publi city.
He an d
O p position-
-lea d e r
Argyle were
chu m s in
boyhood, and
six years
ago, when
the latter
was .Chief
sec., he. had the pleasant duty of sign-
ing the order-in-council promoting Boys to
the top job on the recommendation of the
Public Service Commissioner.
Just dropped out of the Inky Way in
M.L., Arthur Marshall, for 13 years sub-
editor of the Otago “Daily Times” (Dune-
din). Ilis strong suit was accuracy, and
during his sub-editorship the “Times”
acquired a reputation for immunity from
the errors that nowadays bespatter most
dailies. About 10 years ago for health rea-
sons he took up dairy-farming, but ink was
in his blood and he returned to the “Times,”
where he was senior reporter till a break-
down in health early this year laid him
aside.
F. H. TOUT, of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association, chairman of the conference
which, lately brought together all the
political parties opposed to Labor.
General “Reggie” Hart, the oldest V.C.,
just dead at 83, was born in Ireland of
distinguished military stock. He began his
army life with the Sappers and was Colonel
Commandant of the Royal Engineers at the
time of his death. In between he saw
service in pretty well every quarter of the
globe. His first whiff of powder was in
the Afghan War of 1879, when he earned the
most coveted of all decorations for valor.
Hart held many important commands in
India and South Africa, wrote books on pro-
fessional subjects, and in his more active
days was a noted big-game shooter.
“Q. 1.8.”: That par. re the Quintal family
of Norfolk Island (B. 14/10/"31) reminds
that I was once a cobber of the member
mentioned as doing his bit of war service.
I encountered him at Pretoria in 1902 when
he was a captain in the N.S.W. Mounted
Rifles —he went away to the last show as
an infantry corporal. 1 have heard, lie had
a fine sense of humor and was one of the
best poker-players I ever stacked up against.
Also he was a fine raconteur, and, seeing
that he had lived most of his life on Nor-
folk Island, I often wondered where lie
had heard yarns quite so interesting as
those he reeled off by the dozen.
W. J. Wearn, who had the degree of
Doctor of Dental Science conferred on
him by Sydney Uni. —only two others
have received the label —is N.S.W. born, but
was at the Brisbane Grammar School before
he went to the Sydney foundation in 1919.
Graduating in dental surgery there he took
post-graduate courses in Britain. America
and Japan before returning to Australia to
practice. He is a recognised authority on
cleft-palate treatment, and his work in this
respect was chiefly responsible for the latest
honor bestowed on him by his university.
Sholto Douglas has just retired from the
Commonwealth Bank staff at tin; statutory
age ; he was manager at Brisbane for the past
13 years. Born in Hobart, where his dad was
Deputy P.M.G., he began his banking career
49 years ago with the old Commercial of
Tasmania, now merged into the English,
Scottish and Australian. He joined the Com-
monwealth Bank in 1913, and was its first
Hobart manager. His successor at Bris-
bane is T. C. Irving, an old Union Bank
man who has managed for the Common-
wealth Bank in Perth and Adelaide.
John W. Allan, a member of the pioneer
family which gave its name to Allansford.
in the s.-w. district of Vic., passed out a
few days ago at Warburton. A retired
banker who had served at Bendigo and
other places, he was a brother of ITarry,
who used to be Under-See. for Lands, and of
Frank, the famous cricketer, who was after-
wards head of the Rabbit Destruction
Branch; they both preceded him to Shadow-
land. John Allan’s widow is a sister of the
late Allan McLean, who was Premier of Vic.
in 1899-1900 and the offsider of George Reid
in the Federal Coalition Ministry of five
years later.


SSSfll* ,v*-\
PRESENTS fo r
Friends Overseas
Send them a typically Aus-
tralian Gift for Xmas—
one that is novel, charm-
ing and useful —a Mulga
Wood Ornament, turned
from the solid wood and
beautifully polished to
show the rich graining in
contrasting colors of deep
brown and light yellow.
Real bark bases add to
the effect.
VASES:
7in. Bin. 9in. 12in.
11/C 14/6 17/6 30/-
In Queensland Timbers from 13/C
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Toowoomba, Longreaeh and Townsville.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All
Kinds Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCR
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective
High Explosive Known.
Largely used by Quarries, Road
Contractors, etc.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at
ordinary rates of freight.
Also Suppliers of all classes of Mining
Machinery, Blasting Machines, Steel, Rock
Drills, Tools and Accessories.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
*
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
South British Insurance Co.
Net. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 225,115 13 p.c. = 79,107 145,94 S 950,072
Written off investments, £20,984 . . 929,088
1922.. 160,343 11 1-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Premiums on shares .. .. 34,013 1,040,1 11
1923.. 176.688 11H p.c.= 90,268 86,420 1,126.531
1924 . 185,644 12} „ „ 98,866 80,779 1,213,310
1995.. 206,597 13.9 „ ~107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111,761 120,269 1,432,713
1927.. 237.035 15 ~..116.060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 . . 1,353,688
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.e.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. .. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
Apart from £104,926 specially set aside
against outstanding losses, reserves were
visibly £041,126 in excess of the £1,031,040
of paid capital at Aug. 31. So to pay a
13.3 p.c. div. the two combined need earn
only a wink over 5 p.c.; actually they turned
in £137,654 last year (£3216 less than in
the previous term), equal to 5.1 p.c. on
average funds. Further, there was an un-
explained addition of £66,503 to the invest-
ment fluctuation reserve, raising it to
£250,000; part of this increase, however,
may have been a transfer from the reserve
against outstanding losses, which was reduced
by £43,226. So, despite an underwriting
loss of £6ll compared with surpluses of
£70,221 and £92,287 for the two preceding
terms, the extra penny added to the div. in
1930 was sent out again last year. More-
over, 13.3 p.c. now calls for nearly twice
the amount that 14 p.c. did in 1920, though
shareholders have not put a penny of new
capital into the business meantime. But
a repetition of the events of the past decade
need not be looked for during the next 10
years.
The underwriting loss was the outcome of
an abrupt contraction in net premiums, with-
out a corresponding decrease in claims and
expenses:—•
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. peases. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4 „ 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,352 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1926.. 939.533 521,003 318,358 55.4 „ 33.9 „
1927.. 1,046,753 617.5*62 311,806 59.0 „ 29.8 „
1928.. 1,038,048 628,5*59 322,513 60.5 „ 31.1 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641.433 318,072 61.0 ~ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 017,069' 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1931.. 847,718 566,942 281,387 66.8 „ 33.2 „
Thus tlio year's shrinkage in net premiums
was £143,925), leaving them at the lowest
figure since 11)20. The slip was due mainly
to the heavy fall in values, shrunken pay-
rolls and lighter stocks carried by merchants.
The unsatisfactory nature of accident busi-
ness. due largely to motor-car risks, and the
disturbed condition of India and China as
well as fluctuations in the exchange value
of the rupee. Shanghai tael and Hongkong
dollar, affected the figures, too. Compared
with the previous year, claims and exes,
made off with an extra £4 Bs. and £2 12s.
respectively of each £lOO of net premiums.
Policy-holders are well protected, as they
always have been. When the books last
closed net tangibles (£2,704,406, excluding
the amount set aside against outstanding
losses) were 319 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, or more than twice the amount
usually considered adequate. The funds are
invested in this way:—
1930. p.c. 1931. p.c.
Premises .. .. £533,920 17.0 £549,965 17.5
Mortgages . . .. 49.879 1.6 36,053 1.1
Deposits and cash .. 322,023 10.2 296,792 9.4
Stocks, debentures, etc. 494,202 15.7 586,081 18.6
Municipal debentures, etc. 439,522 14.0 446,809 14.2
Government securities. 1,219,724 38.8 1,149,134 36.6
Book debts . . .. 83,846 2.7 81,018 2.6
More attention was given to trading invest-
ments last year. To add £99,166 net to the
book value of stocks, shares and municipal
debentures, and £16,045 to the premises item,
mainly on account of the co.’s new building
at Capetown, Government securities were
reduced by £70,590, mortgages by £13,826
and cash and debtors’ balances were drawn
upon for £28,059.
Headquarters are in Auckland, and the
Australian market expresses its faith in the
management and the quality of the invest-
ments by paying 58s. 6d. (M.D., 505.) for
the fully-paid fl shares. At 5Ss. Gd. the
return is 4.5 p.r. on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 525. sd. in net tangibles.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
r- Dividends Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Loss. 9 p.c. Ord. flcit. Deficit.
£ .c £ £ £
1924*. 63,961 11,346 Nil 175,307
Profit.
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35.199 13,497 7* „ ~11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747113,499 12$ „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
1929.. 37,332 13,500 121 „ ~18,750 5,082 101,284
“Guardian” sold; “Referee” and
“Arrow” bought.
Net reduction in goodwill, £41,500. . 59,784
Added reserves, £39,807 .. .. 19,977
1930.. 14,874 13,500 1 1,374 18,603
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£14,100 32,703
Loss.
1931.. 11,476 13,500 Nil 57,679
*l4 months, tlncludes £9406 unexplained additions
to reserves. JUndisclosed special distribution made
to ords. out of profit on sale of “Daily Guardian.”
In 1923 the public put up £150,000 in 9 p.c.
cum. prefs. to help the co. launch the “Daily
Guardian.” Six years later the “Sunday
Guardian” appeared. Then, in January,
1930, the goodwill and publishing rights of
the pair were sold to Associated Newspapers
for £575,000 —£400,000 in fully-paid 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and the balance (£175,000)
cash; there was £140,000 of the cash to
come when Associated made up its accounts
at Sept. 30, 1930. Pai’t of the considera-
tion was used to wipe out the £lOO,OOO at
which goodwill, etc., of the “Guardian” had
been capitalised; most of the balance, in-
cluding all the pref. shares, was whacked up
amongst the ords. in two interim divs., the
amounts of which were not mentioned in
the published accounts. The net unex-
plained addition to sundry reserves was only
£39,807.
By this division of the .bulk of the pur-
chase consideration among ordinary share-
holders, the co- lost the right to £28,000
p.a. in dividends, or more than twice the
annual requirements of its own pref. capi-
tal. Meanwhile, the “Referee” and “Arrow,”
two sporting journals, were bought at a
“satisfactory price.” Assuming that £40,000
—the figure mentioned in the by-ways of
the market —-was paid for the goodwill of this
pair, then £18,500 of exes, was capitalised
in connection with their publication for the
couple of months to the close of accounts
in 1930. After all these things had been
done, and provision made for taxation, doubt-
ful debts and depreciation, the accounts
claimed a net profit of £14,874 (£1374 more
than the pref. div.) for the 12 months to
June 30, 1930. Six years earlier the
“Weekly” alone was netting only a trifle
under £31,000 p.a.
During the last term advertising revenue
slumped heavily, circulation was difficult
to hold, primage and exchange bumped up
costs, and some of the properties bought
when the City Council decided to extend
Martin-place didn’t bring in enough to pay
rates and taxes. The result was an admitted
loss of £11,476; but there was an unex-
plained reduction of £14,100 in reserves,
including which the total loss was £25,576.
The board says it is well satisfied with the
“Referee” and “Arrow,” so apparently tne
“Weekly” has slipped further. After pay-
ing the pref. div.. a p. and 1. debit of £21,186
remained to be wiped out from future profits.
Goodwill, not treated as an asset herein,
was unchanged at £118,500, and £57,679 of
the £150,000 of ord. capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles when the books closed.
During the year the book value of invest-
ments, debtors’ balances, cash and sundry
assets, now all lumped in one untidy entry,
was reduced by £48.595. But only £16,072
was wiped off the outside debt: —
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £299,966 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 55,277 190,693 271,528 255,456
Freeholds .. 43,155 161,857 161,857 161,857
Plant, etc. .. 67,427 71,469 68,986 62,433
Stock .. 17,735 32,482 23,409 ]
Book debts . . 51,072 83,189 236,948 I
Cash, etc. . . 464 792 644 j- 273,488
Shares in other
cos. . . 84 50,870 61,081 J
Thus the shrinkage in the more or less liquid
surplus (£18,031, including stock and shares
in other cos.) was £32,523. Shareholdings
include 100,000 fully-paid ords. in the Vic-
torian subsidiary; they were issued for
goodwill. Subject to the rights of its own
prefs. the parent has guaranteed both capi-
tal and div. on £150,000 of 8 p.c. prefs. in
the pup, which had managed to earn a trifle
more than its own pref. requirements up
till a year ago.
On the market, buyers pass by the 9 p.c.
cum. prefs. at 10s. They are covered by net
assets with a book value of 325. 3d., exclud-
ing goodwill.
Amalgamated Wireless " '
W nt- To Re- De-
June, Profits. ten Off. senes, felt.
1923.. 6,834 ’ Nil 6691 143 17,050
Establishment expenses capitalised, £4al li.out
1924.. 14,505 Nil 7352 39,358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £102,009 141,36;
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. ■ •
1925.. 14,005 Nii 8969 5036 136.193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £ 54,592 190,78»
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 U, 196
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
ixonunal
Reserves.
1997* 39 036 Nil 13,886 25,150 21,294
Deficit.
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 38,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,961 23,297 3404 20,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 2 A320
1929.. 108,326 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,731 20,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4,257
Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 6 „ „ 44,657 14,539 35,0-2
♦Reserves subject to undisclosed establishment exes.
There was a sharp decline in the earnings
of the Beam service, due to the trade slump
and an abrupt contraction in international
telegraphic traffic. The coastal and marine
business was affected, too, and the wireless
telephone section, which has put Australia
within speaking distance of Europe, Nort.i
and South America, Java and Maoriland, is
not yet profitable. But the placing of radio
equipment on the list of prohibited imports
quickened the output of the co.’s factories,
and sales were a record. Nevertheless, there
was a slip of £35,801 in gross profits:—
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Gross profits. . £158,032 £-443,331 £457,722 £421,921
Exes.* .. 1.34,415 335,005 373,439 362,725
Net profit .. £23,617 £108,326 £84,283 £59,196
*lncludes losses on subsidiary.
Thus a saving of £10,714 in exes., despite
heavier taxation, left the net result at 7.0
p.c. on capital compared with 11.3, 10.6 and
6.4 p.c. for the three preceding terms ; and
a couple of points were knocked off the div.,
reducing it to 6 p.c. The £14,539 that was
left lifted the lay-by to £35,022 in excess
of the £40,067 of research and other exes,
capitalised in connection with the Beam
activities. There is £173,301 (up £25,860
during the year) set aside against patent
rights (£93,000), depreciations, insurance,
etc., which is not included in the table.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
, 1923. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £261,812 £662,634 £744,283 £744,283
Overdraft . . 4,573 67,020
Sundry creditors 30,842 130,150. 113,652 157,405
Freeholds ‘ J 224,051 267,376 274,993
Plant, etc. j ( 267,917 295,011 347,448
Beam service. 17,489* 214,601* 160,412 158,984
Shares other cos. 30,007 4,710
Book debts . . 54,330 150,438 125,268 130,844
Cash, etc. . . 12,529 1,127 114,565 127,070
♦lncludes unspecified amount spent on research and
development.
The activity on the manufacturing side is
reflected in the year’s growth of £52,437 in
plant, etc., which includes Radiola stocks,
and of £5576 in debtors’ balances, _ The
board went outside for an extra £43,753, and
strengthened the cash holding by £12,505.
The more or less liquid surplus (£100,509,
excluding shares and an unspecified amount
of trading stocks) was £25,072 lighter than
at the previous balance,
It was the agreement with the Federal
Government in December, 1927, that put the
business on a new footing. Amongst other
things it provided for a subsidy which wiped
out the loss on the Coastal Radio section,
and made the co.’s patents free to the public
for five years. In return for the concession
the co. gets 3s. p.a. of each listener’s license
fee. On the basis of official statistics this
moiety was worth over £45.000 for the 12
months to the close of accounts in 1930;
obviously much depends upon the terms on
which this section of the agreement, which
expires at the end of next year, can be
renewed. The co., in which the Common-
wealth Government holds a controlling in-
terest, has done a lot for Australia, and
has had to fight hard to keep the business
under local control.
The market prices the pound shares at
20s. 7d.; the return at that figure is 5.8
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Farmer and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36,292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 .. 140,428
1924.. 55,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98.413 12,000 28.000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,500 .. 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927. . 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
Freehold, plant, etc., grew from £573,762
in 1020 to £1,436,822 at the close of last
accounts. To help finance the outlay
£500,000 of (5 p.c. first-mortgage debentures
was issued in 1027. But before earnings
could benefit, economic developments had
lightened the public's purse, increased the
cost of importing and restricted turnovers
generally. During the 12 months covered
by the last accounts, competition became
more acute, falling prices narrowed margins,
and exchange, tariff adjustments, import
prohibitions, the sales tax and stinging
increases in other levies made it impossible
to earn a satisfactory profit on the balance
of transactions. Also, the weight of the
debenture debt pressed heavily on the
attenuated earnings—besides paying interest,
the co. had to pass the first £lO,OOO to the
trustees of the sinking fund.
The net result' was £53.166 lighter at
£11,001; so reserves were raided for £28,999
to pay the two lots of pref. divs. Still,
visible accumulations were only £3724 short
of the previous .year’s, due to the transfer
of £25,275 from the contingency fund, which
is lumped with sundry creditors in the sheet.
The ords., which had had a steady 10 p.c.
for the nine years to the close of accounts
of ’29, went hungry for the first time since
1897, when the present co. took over the
business. At the moment it is difficult
to say when and to what extent they are
likely to get back into the picture.
The earnings of these big department
stores are governed largely by the stsite of
affairs in the primary and secondary indus-
tries ; until costs. generally are _ further
reduced, the burden of taxation lightened,
and. spending power widened by the spread
of employment, profits .are likely to be
slender and difficult to win. Nevertheless,
the statutory reduction of interest, including
pref. divs., will lighten the co.’s fixed charges
by over £15,700 p.a., and stocks should be
less troublesome as conditions become more
settled.
Il’ere is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 994,415 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures.. 500,000 500,000' 500,000
Other
creditors .. 129,792 159,958 20G.608 181,902
Freeholds
and plant... 627,950. .1,343,155 1,411,100 1.436,822
Leaseholds .. 1,700
Stock .. 467,002 366,847 365,571 313,077
Book debts.. 101,718 102,939 84,549 77,606
Cash and in-
vestments. . 91,708 " 94,368 84,906 82,240
Final payments on the new building and
the opening of two cafeterias were respon-
sible for the year’s growth of £25,722 net
in freeholds,' plant, etc. The outlay was
met mainly by reductions of £52,494 in the
book value of stocks and of £6943 in debtors’
balances. The contraction of £24,656 in
the amount coming.to sundry creditors was
apparently due to the disclosure of inner
reserves, already referred to. Leaving share-
holdings (£15,692) and the debenture sink-
ing fund (£10,615) out of the reckoning,
more or less liquids (£446,616, including
stocks) exceeded the floating debt, etc., by
£264,664 at July 31. At the same date
fixed assets represented 75.2 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total as against 51.2 p.c. five
years earlier; the need for shrewd buying,
brisk turnover and a tight hold upon out-
goings is obvious.
There are 200,000 first 6 p.c. and 400,000
second 71 p.c. prefs., ranking in the order
stated for divs. and capital. On the market
the firsts are priced at 13s. 6d. and the
seconds at Bs. 3d.: allowing for the statu-
tory 221 p.c, cut the return at those prices
is 6.8, p.c. and 13 p.c. respectively. For
the ords.. which fetched 275. 3d. two years
ago, 6s. 3d. is offered. The net tangible
backing is £6 2s. 9d., firsts; £2 11s. 4d.,
seconds; 31s. 2d. ords.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
Pref. Ord. Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.e. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 25,466 7428* 11,111* 6927 35,143
Flotation exes., £569 . . . . 35,712
1929.. 33,179 8179 18,216 6784 28,928
1930.. 31,981 9378 20,850 1753 27.17 E
Loss.
1931.. 12,025 Nil Nil 39,200
* Includes distributions on vendor cos.’ shares.
To attract fresh capital, which the public
put. up in 9 p.c. cum. prefs., the Cox Bros.’
drapery and home-furnishing business in
Vic., S. Aus. and Tas. was split into three
separate concerns about six years ago. The
ords. were all taken-over by a central hold-
ing and finance co.. Cox Investments, Ltd.
The various floats having served their pur-
pose, 1 the present co. was formed early in
1928 to amalgamate the tliree_ trading con-
cerns. It kicked oft with £160,06S of paid
capital—£42,o7o of it represented by good-
will, not treated as an asset herein —which
has since grown to £208,500, one-half prefs.
and the other half ords. All the ords. are
owned by the Investment Co. About three
years ago activities spread to Perth, where
the furnishing business of Sayers and
McEvoy was bought. .
The co. developed a lively turnover, mainly
on a t.p. basis, and, after attending to the


■
m
i
a
m
v/%z
S 2
Esf
O
H-X*
Bs£i
(un
Blen
■
SM
-I Vli ite Hone Cellar
i
;:;:s
v
ft
fEI
FffOMTH*
° ri S in^6
3MI
HI
Au. t........... ..I. «...•••• mw" 1 " a 'Z**«Z
■'«•/» NllllllflHl ••*»**
* ,a *(iiiiiaiat ailasa i ( |B .isis*!
«... -
""•••H. a,i„ ailia aini tun ■» ,84 ■ ,
M, « .... . ........ ..... . - 1.*„■«««•
.....■■if.
'll'" ■"»* (mmiimmui
» ..LIIIBIIII....."'„| Ilf"' .
“"I j l ' , * , .'.l».»'l* •'»» I—l ,| I.*"
... '"'•■••••inni,■iii.i l ,»»>" 1 *
>liiiitt.n..H.»» )ia,>l " .
horse oismiEß^s
nitMia.iiai
AMI" 1
*»U
!
'M
r £
I
Va
1
m
&
| IHR ißi
I g E s.IIU.HIB
ii —iug!!i:a
iiiiiMunms
■Smiisfi
■
Mi!
5
akvSlttli
a kindly spirit
ppnnrn
fl. HERE’S no kinder whisky
than White Horse. Sip it!
Savour it! It has all the mel-
lowness and bouquet that
time alone can give. It is a
whisky to sip appreciatively
—and re-order approvingly.
THE SENIOR WHISKY OF SCOTLAND
White Horse
’’ SCOTCH WHISKY


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Long experience with Pioneer Wood Pipe, under the
most severe conditions of service, proves its capa-
bility of living up to every claim made for it. Light,
strong and extremely durable, it never corrodes and
is unaffected by frost, heat and electrolysis. Its
initial cost is considerably less than metal pipe, and
it is much cheaper and easier to handle, instal.
freight and transport. Write for full particulars to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard! of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuas
Detonators
Cartridges
If Making
a new WILL
owing to your altered financial position, consider
appointing as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited). Its qualifications
include Security, Experience and Expert Manage-
ment. Call or write for free explanatory booklet.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; 11. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES. SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
prefs., handed the ords. 20 p.c. for each of
the three years to the close of accounts in
1930. But that was under boom conditions.
The slump has brought home- and other buiul-
ing and the furnishing that goes with it
almost to a standstill, caused a sharp fall in
prices, lightened pay-bags generally and spread
unemployment. Thus, after taking debtors
balances and stocks into the sheet at
£32 28S and £12,414 respectively below
the 1930 figures, a loss of £12,025 showed
up for the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. And that is disregarding £lO.BOl ot
interest due on advances from the Invest-
ment Co.; it appears as a contingent
liability, together with £9383 of accrued pref.
divs.
At the close of accounts the debt, apart
from contingent liabilities, was £56,036 in
excess of paid capital:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £164,767 £207,542 £208,500 £208,500
Overdraft . . 14,666 32,118 34,657 33,861
Mortgages, etc. 4,000 26,477 26,423 26,365
Deposits .. 91,896 149,693 163,956 160,107
Creditors .. 23,789 17,564 50,756 44,803
Freeholds, etc. 24,846 56,399 59,387 57,065
Plant etc. .. 16,562 21,349 23,805 21,925
Stocks .. 45,893 68,789 70,761 58,347
Debtors . . 195,122 279,531 331,875 299,587
Cash, etc. ■. 253 415 255 2,039
However, all but a trifle of the deposits at
July 31 represented advances from Cox In-
vestments, which is free of debt itself. Alto-
gether the more or less liquid surplus
(£94,837, including stocks) slipped £32,262
during the year. The position hinges on the
soundness of book debts, against which
£42.008 has been reserved for contingencies.
Results will depend largely upon whether
the provision proves to be adequate, and
the extent to which overhead can be curbed.
Meanwhile, the weight of the debt will press
heavily on reduced turnover.
The market prices the prefs. at 75.; they
are covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 325. 6d.
Cox Investments, Ltd.
At Sept. 30 paid capital was £232,568, in
123.750 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and a like number
of ords. —there was £14.932 to come on the
latter. The 104,250 fully-paid ords. in the
trading co. figured at £76,250 (cost) ;
deposits, £158,222; cash, £504; preliminary
exes, £l5OO. No divs. or interest were
received; a loss of £2421 was recorded com-
pared with a profit of £23,006 in the pre-
vious year, and both lots of shareholders
went hungry. The market offers 2s. 7d.
for the prefs., which are covered by 275. sd.
(book value) in net tangibles.
Evans, Deakin & Co., Ltd.
( Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
4278
1929.. 7761 3600 5 p.c. = 3207 954 5232
1930.. 6788 3600 5 „ „ 3207 5213
1931.. 5247 3600 „ „ 1603 44 5257
Business was slacker, of course, hut Evans
Deakin are assisting with the job. of
.spanning the Brisbane with a new bridge
at Grey-street. A contract of that size,
though it may carry only a small margin of
profit, reduces the burden of overhead in
relation to the bread-and-butter jobs. The
co. got its usual share of the latter, includ-
ing the fabricating work in connection with
McWhirter’s and the Public Curator’s now
buildings. After taking stock at £SBSO
less than in the previous year, gross
profits (£18.349) were £596.3 lighter.
Exes. (£13,103, including £l4OO for taxation
and doubtful debts) were cut back £4422;
thus the net result was £1541 lighter at
£5247. The subsidiary, W. S. Binnie and
Sons, showed a loss of £941 for the term,
and for the third successive year was unable
to pay a div.
Evans Deakin, after paying 9 p.c. on its
40,000 prefs., handed the ords. 21 p.c. as
against 5 p.c. in each of the two preceding
years. Actual earnings so far have not
reached prospectus estimates. The business,
established in 1911,' was floated into a co. in
1924; three years later the public subscribed
£40,000 in 9 p.c. prefs., which carry the right to
an extra 1 p.c. after the ords. get over 10 p.c.
Ranking after outsiders, the prefs. also have
first call on the assets of W. S. Binnie and
Sons for repayment of capital or arrears of
divs. Combined profits of the two cos. were
£14,151 and £18,720 in 1925 and 1926: the
average for -five years to 1926 was
£10,752. Evans Deakin specialise in struc-
tural steel fabrication work, besides tank
and boiler building; Binnies, manufac-
turers of railway waggons, etc., have
suffered 'severely from the almost complete
stoppage of Government orders. The parent
also acts as agent for many proprietary
engineering and hardware lines.
Besides allowing an unspecified amount
for depreciation, Evans Deakin have estab-
lished a £43so,reserve for plant replacement,
which is not included with reserves in the
table. Shareholders’ funds are . represented
mainly by fixed assets. The holding in W. S.
Binnie and Sons is all represented by land
and plant. Here is the position as the pub-
lished figures show it: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital ..' . . £104,135 £104,135 £104,135
Sundry creditors . . 26,446 27,262 22,897
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 32,678 33,975 34,267
Fittings .. . . . . 2,526 2,609 2,255
Investments . . .. 37,846 37,908 37,704
Stocks .. . . .. 39,413 41,448 32,598
Debtors 26,961 26,671 28,524
Cash, etc 2,896 2,481_ _ 4,507
Including Binnies’ figures there was £7S,7l9in
freeholds, etc.; £38,487 in stocks and uncom-
pleted work; £29,098, debtors; £4552, cash,
etc. Outsiders are altogether owed £25,461
(down £11,332). The combined liquid sur-
pluses (including stocks) were £1829 lighter
at £41,676. . ,
The prefs. in Evans Deakin are backed
by £2 15s. 2d. in net tangibles. Allowing
for Binnies’ loss, their div. requirements
were little more than covered by last year's
net earnings. Prospects are still far from
bright, but the co. is fortunate enough to
have a quantity of work in hand. Sellers ask
18s. for the prefs.; at which figure the return
would be 10 p.c. on a minimum div. basis.
How Profits Have Shrunk
In the past three weeks 18 representative
Australian companies have been reviewed on
these pages; and the following table shows
how profits of the past year compare with
those of the preceding 12 months and with
1927: —-
1927. 1930. 1931.
South British .. £237,035 £211,037 £137,042
Smiths . . . . 48,747 14,874 —11,476
Anialg. Wireless. . 89,036 84,283 59,196
Farmers . . . . 102,506 64,167 11,001
Cox Bros. (Aus.)* 25,466 31,981 —12,025
Yarra Falls . . 104,607 77,003 51,272
Henry Berry .. 67,824 56,375 36,193
Automobile and
General Finance Nil 5,738 —2,831
Trufood . . . . 18,014 16,850 7,650
“Truth” & “Sportsman” 40,216 26,298 27,421
Strachan & C 0... 12,255 9,045 2,478
David Jones . . 106,885 73,742 49,973
Colonial Gas .. 52,871 77,264 67,588
Murdoch’s! . . 67,518 43,121 10,618
Brisbane Permanent 44,950 49,737 35,383
Allan and Stark. . 24,510 14,054 —4,531
Cash Orders (Amalg.) 699 —38,980 —8,901
B. H. South .. 355,207 316,936 80,421
£1,398,346 £1,073,525 £536,472
*1928 (1929. In these cases figures for 1927
are not available.
The average fall in profits since 1927 has
been 614 p.c.; in the past year alone it was
just a shade over 50 p.c.
The Victorian Gold Association, N.L., a
Melbourne float with a nominal capital of
£60,000 in 10s. shares, of which 80,(KX) are
offered, is the outcome of the report by H. W.
Gepp and W. Baragwanatli on the Bendigo
field. They recommended the Vic. Govern-
ment to spend up to £50,000 in subsidising
the equipment and exploration at depth of
the Central Nell Gwynne, Deborah and
Monument Hill mines. The Central Nell
Gywnne is close to Lansell’s big 180 mine,
on the New Chum line, which was a rich
producer. The shaft is down 493 ft.; the
gold-bearing horizon is expected to be met
with between this point and 1000 ft. The
Monument Hill property was drilled by Ben-
digo Amalgamated, whose cash gave out years
ago. Here hopes are that the deepening of
the shaft from 770 ft. to 1150 ft. will disclose
something worth whole. The Deborah is ex-
pected to show satisfactory results between
the present bottom level (435 ft.) and 1000 ft.
It is to carry out this exploration work that
the present co. is being formed. Until the
size and value of the reefs are disclosed no
reliable estimate of profits can be formed.
It is considered that sdwt. stone will pay.
The only consideration payable is in connec-
tion with the Deborah —£400 cash (for
plant) and £lOOO in paids.
On the board are H. YV. Gepp, T. \\.
Haynes, S. McKay, L. S. Benjamin and G.
W. Lansell.
=l= * * *
The Bulolo Co.’s first dredge, estimated
annual capacity 1.700,000 c.v.. is expected
to set in during March, 1932, 12 months
from the commencement of aeroplane trans-
port of the material. Work on the dredge
superstructure is well forward. Two 600-
k.w. hydro-electric generators, with provi-
sion for a third, will provide the power.
Water is brought to the station by 2900 ft.
of open ditch, 3170 ft. of timber fluming and
1630 ft. of tunnel. The net head is 105 ft.
Power is estimated to cost only £2500 per
annum. At present 70 whites and 500
natives are employed. The estimate cost of
equipment is equal to 9d. per cubic yard,
which has a bore value of 2s. Id.
* * * *
Oriomo Explorations, which recently
granted Flacer Development an option over
5000 acres of gold-bearing river flats in
the Goldsbrough district (Q.), is asking
shareholders for £2500 in £lO debentures.
The money is wanted to test two areas in
which the co. is interested —the old Orient
mine, on the Mulgrave field (N.Q.), and
McDonald’s Reward Area, near Mt. Gibson
(W.A.). Debenture-holders are entitled to
25 p.c. of gross proceeds from either or both
properties, or paper is redeemable at 100
p.c. premium.
“Old Warden”: Biggenden mine, .Central
Queensland, once a flourishing gold and bis-
muth show, has taken on a new lease of
life The lode outcrops on the side of a
steep hill, and much of it has been washed
down as alluvial. The original prospectors
missed this, and as the mine was developed
the wash became covered with the mine
buildings. Recently E. Kummerfeld, one of
the old hands, discovered that the surface
soil contained payable free gold and bis-
muth. He has devised special machinery
to deal with the wash, and under favorable
conditions a ton of dirt can be put through
in an hour. Trial lots have panned out
as high as 18dwt. gold to the ton, and the
bismuth content is said to be high.
* * * *
Wiluna, which has bumped up against
trouble everywhere, made a better showing
last month :• —
July. Aug. Sept.
Ore treated, tons.. .. 25,952 23,379 25,292
Value* £36,700 £34,000 £41,988
Working costs . . .. 26,240 24,278 25,037
Development . . • • 5,452 5,980 6,497
Working' surplus . . . . 5,007 3,742 10,454
♦lncludes premium.
Thus September recoveries jumped 4s. Id.,
reaching 335. 2d. per ton of crudes treated,
including the premium. The spring is pro-
bably due to the rise in the sterling price
of gold. The metal is now worth £5 4s. 6d.
per fine ounce in London, or £6 14s. 7d.
delivered at Australian mints, after adding
exchange and deducting charges at the rate
of 255. per cent. Working costs were Is.
lighter at 19s. 9d. per ton of crudes. Carl
Lindberg has not yet completed his investi-
gations, which include both surface and
underground positions.
•j: -c •!* '!*
At Lake View and Star (W.A.) one of
the Fahrenwold flotation machines is treat-
ing 400 tons of ore per day, or more than
the entire output of the old plant, which
is to be dispensed with. Two more of the
new machines are being put in. Other in-
stallations include a weiglitomcter, auto-
matic samplers and a second Symons cone
crusher. The foundations are in for the
power plant, which will include a 3000-volt
alternator. In the treatment section, three
thickening tanks have been completed, and
the agitating and surge tanks, mechanical
driers and Oliver filters arc under construc-
tion. One tube mill and one wet ball mill
are handling 250 tons of ore per 24 hours ;
two others are ready, and the 150-h.p.
Synchronus motor to supply the driving
power is in position. The new head-frame
has been erected on the Chaffers shaft, which
is being stripped and re-timbered ; also, the
eight boilers and all accessories to operate
the winders are completed. By the begin-
ning of next year it is expected that feed
at the rate of 30,000 tons p.a. will be put
through at a cost of about 20.5. per ton as
against 30s. at present. The saving in power
costs alone is figured at £23,000 p.a. It. is
too early yet to say whether estimates will
be realised.
* * * *
“Peter” : Efforts are being made to revive
Hopes Hill, Southern Cross (W.A.), which
was old when the Golden Mile was young.
On erection of the original 30-head mill it
was found that there was not enough water
for treatment; so the co. went in for con-
densing water and selling it for domestic
requirements. The only div. it ever paid
came from this side-line. The mine was sold
to Scottish interests in 1896 for £25,000. A
Griffen mill was built, then condemned by
a man who had never seen one at work, and
40 head of stamps was put up. Mining and
treatment costs amounted to only 17s. per
ton, but the gold won was worth less. I
was at the co.’s funeral, where the moans of
the representatives of Scotland were dreadful.
All told, £200,000 was sunk in the show.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can I avoid probate duties and still
maintain complete control of estate by hav-
ing my solicitor hold transfer of estate from
myself to son (son is seven years of age
next birthday)? (2) Should son predecease
me, would probate have to be paid? (3)
Advantages and disadvantages of this com-
pared with a probate policy? —6s7l.
(1) If it is a bona-fide transfer you can-
not maintain the control of ownership. If
it is not, you do not escape probate. (2)
If it were a bona-fide transfer, yes. (3)
We do not know any way to escape probate
or/and succession duties. A probate policy
will help your executors find the money to
pay duty, not to evade duty. Certainly there
are policies which, it is said, are not liable
to pay these duties; but that is because the
premiums have been bona fide paid by some-
body else. The law varies a little in dif-
ferent States; for instance, whereas in N. S.
Wales duty may be escaped in proportion
to the amount of premiums contributed by
outsiders, in Queensland it seems that the
whole policy may pass to the benefit of an
outsider (the estate being thus freed from
duty) if the outsider saves the policy from
forfeiture by paying a premium and then
pays succeeding premiums. Apart from
these small divergences the law is. in essen-
tials the same throughout Australia.
Owing to the possibilities of inflation I am
thinking of buying some of the better class
mining serin. (1) Would my capital be
secure? (2) Name three or four cos. I
might look into? —(l42s.
(1) Capital is never absolutely secure.
When you buy mining scrip you purchase the
right to the metal content of the ore in the
mine; the plant is not worth much, if any-
thing, once the ore reserves are exhausted.
Generally speaking, security of capital there-
fore depends upon the margin between prices
in the world’s metal markets and the cost
of mining, extraction and marketing. Last
year lead averaged £l4 16s. Id. per ton Lon-
don, and all the cos. along the line of
lode at the Barrier made a loss on mining
account, notwithstanding that exchange made
£lOO in London worth on the average
£ll7 11s. 7d. here. (2) Silver-lead: North,
South and Zinc and Sulphide Corp. Malayan
Tin : Kramat, Changkat, Kuala Kampar,
Larut.
(1) What is the position of the prefs. in
Bon Marche, Ltd,? (2) Is the co. making
any recovery? (3) Is it likely to go into
liquidation ? —6182.
(1) There are 100,000 in a paid capital
of £2OO,<XX). They are 74 p.c. cumulative,
have priority as to capital and were covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 425. 9d.
at January 31 last. More or less liquids
(£141,628, mainly t.-p. debtors’ balances)
then exceeded amount coming to sundry
creditors (£10,985) by £130,643, equal to
265. Id. per pref. share. Freehold and plant
(written up £25,000 in 1927) figured at
£141,398, subject to a mortgage of £58,000,
leaving co.’s equity at £83,398, or 16s. Bd.
per pref. share. (2) Unlikely. The fall in
prices, moratorium, spread of unemployment
and need to restrict credit stand in the way.
(3) There is nothing in the figures to sug-
gest it.
(1) Is there much English silver coin
now in use in Australia; what are the possi-
bilities of collecting it? (2) If I collected
English pennies and halfpennies, could I
get equivalent in English silver at bank?
(3) If I collected £5O in English pennies
would there be any difficulty in taking them
to England? (4) Any difficulties in taking
or sending English coin up to £lOO to Eng-
land ? —6364.
(1) No. The banks and private dealers
buy it at a premium. The banks pay 225.
for £1 of English silver coin ; private dealers
offered 235. 6d. last week-end. You can
collect by becoming a competitor in the
market. (2), (3) and (4) No.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H'.F.B. : A fair gamble— nothing more.
.. . .Burwood: All the big life-insurance offices will
sell annuities; the office that issued it is the most
likely to make a cash offer... .D. 8.: (1) and (2)
No. (3) and (4) Can’t see why it should be....
X Ray: The N.S.W. law requires the co. to pay
unemployment tax out of dividends payable to any
registered shareholder resident outside the State.
From residents within the State the dept, collects
the tax from the shareholder direct... .K.S.A.: Old
interminable threes were converted into new inter-
minable threes. But new stock was issued on the
basis of a 22) per cent, cut in the interest on old
stock. That is to say, there was a capital reduction
of £l6 17s. Gd. per cent. ; and interest received
would be equal to £2 11s. 9d. per eent. on the
amount of the old stock. .. .A.M.C.: (1) Shares are
not listed. On basis of average earnings over last
five years, capitalised at 8 per cent., value of fully-
paids is 10s. 6d. (2) No. Fertiliser industry is
overcrowded ; no div. paid last year. (3) A 3 per
cent. div. would yield 7) per cent, to a buyer at
8s E.G.E.: Hopeless R.N.: According to
latest advice the liquidator of the P. P. Bank would
accept a deposit as a set-off against- calls, if any
were made. . . .F.W.V-H.: (1) For criticism of
Sangara Sugar prospectus, see “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
August, 1931. (2) Part of the land has been
secured and plantings have commenced on a small
scale. Crushing was planned to start about 1933.
(3) No connection with Imperial Sugar Industries
(formerly Papuan Rural Products). Sangara issues
shares only, and unless £300,000 is subscribed
shareholders get their money back.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Will More Money Bring Prosperity?
As I understand it, the bimetallists say
there is not enough com in the world, and
hence we have trade depressions. It is, how-
ever, admitted that half the monetary gold
of the world is in America, yet there is great
unemployment and, distress there. Doesn’t
this throw doubt on any scheme for restor-
ing prosperity by increasing the money of
the world? —R.S.D.
If the vege’able Johns of Sydney had pots
of gold and the rest of Sydney had none,
the veg’able Johns’ affluence wouldn’t do
them much good. Uncle Sam’s troubles
spring partly out of the inability of the rest
of the world to go on buying from him,
partly out of his own distrust of the nations.
“There is an abundance of capital available
to finance a revival of business over the
world,” the National City Bank of New York
reported in July. “But,” it proceeded, “there
must be confidence in the maintenance of
peace and normal financial relations between
countries, in order that it may flow freely
from the centres where it tends to accumu-
late in idleness to the places and employ-
ments in which it. is needed.” Uncle Sam
remembers what happened to the foreign
creditors of Russia, Germany and Austria,
and to a lesser but still substantial extent
of France and Italy, and is taking no risks
with his principal. Which explains why he
stipulates so emphatically for a reduction
of armaments, and would stop armament-
building altogether if he could. Meantime,
while Uncle Sam’s gold “tends to accumu-
late in idleness,” his export trade in some
lines —automobiles, for example—has shrunk
(k! per cent., and his factories arc idle in
consequence.
“The Exchange Tangle”
You say that, as a result of the exchange
tangle, the French buyer of our goods has
a 20 p.e. advantage over the English buyer;
and you put, that down to the Australian
banks. The ability of the French buyers to
overbid the Englishmen and not pay -more in
French money than before the exchange
slipped has nothing to do with the Australian
banks. In this matter the London-Paris
rate helps the Frenchmen by making an
English £ cost less. What possible control
have the Australian banks over the London-
Earis rate ? — Quaere.
In “The Exchange Tangle” the Australian
banks were not mentioned, nor w r as it sug-
gested that they had anything to do with
this matter. Not having been accused there
seems no reason for excusing them. The.
facts, however, cannot be escaped. Our £
is discounted in London and then (for
practical purposes) is re-discounted in Paris,
with the result that the Frenchman has an
advantage over the Englishman in his pur-
chases from us. Certainly it. doesn’t hurt
us much. The Frenchman can buy for £BO
(in his money) what the Englishman has
to pay £lOO for (iri his money). In either
case we get £l3O (in our money). But it
must hurt the Englishman. The point is
that the £l3O Australian ought still to be
worth £lOO in French money, and, because
of the fall in the value of the English £,
the £l3O Australian should now be worth
more than £ioo English.
Protection and Exchange
I am, a Protectionist, greatly perturbed by
the difficulties of the primary producers.
They are indispensables, in the special cir-
cumstances of Australia; and Protectionist
duties are bearing heavily upon them. The
exchange premium they have, been receiving
has, I believe, made all the difference between
an absolute loss and a small profit to many,
and it seems to me has turned aside what
would otherwise have been a very dangerous
attack on Protection. May not a high ex-
change rate be thus a proper—if not, in fact,
necessary--—accompaniment of a Protectionist
tariff in a country largely dependent on an
export trade in primary products? —R. J.
Francis.
Admittedly the high exchange rate has
put money into the pockets of primary pro-
ducers who wanted it very badly. So for
a while would inflation in any form. But
the benefit is soon lost. The exchange is
paid not by people outside Australia but by
people in Australia. Every £ the exporter
gets, the importer must pay; and in the
long run the producer must inevitably do
the paying. There is a lag between cause
and effect; it takes some time for the effect
to reach the primary producer. On the
other hand, he will be paying long after he
has ceased to receive any benefit. From
the Protectionist point of view it is a bad
tax because it falls equally upon goods which
can and those which cannot be produced in
Australia, and equally upon the raw material
of Australian factories and the finished
article which competes with them. It also
increases taxation to meet the charges on the
foreign debt; and that means adding to the
costs of primary production at a time when
we ought to be struggling our hardest to
reduce those costs.
State Rights and Export Bonuses
It is time we protested vigorously against
this pyramid of bonuses that are being
heaped on us. First we had the sugar bounty
to help Queensland, now the wheat bonus
to help Westralia very largely. A small
State like -Tasmania, with no overseas ex-
ports to speak of, may be tremendously valu-
able as an intcr-State supplier; yet it, gets
no advantage from these bonuses, but only
has to put its hand in its pocket to pay them.
Let each State support its own industries, I
say. — Huonite.
Thp Commonwealth has made itself respon-
sible for the States’ debts, and when in pur-
suance of the Lang plan N. S. Wales lately
failed to provide the interest on a N.S.W.
loan, the Commonwealth had to produce it.
Thus the Commonwealth is deeply con-
cerned in encouraging exports so that they
shall be sufficient to pay for imports plus
interest and other charges on the overseas
debt. At the same time it is admitted-that
the growth of bonuses should be watched
very carefully ; there is an obvious inclina-
tion to use them as a means of dodging the
reduction of costs by reasonable Government
and other economy.'
The Value of Gold
It is difficult to sec how the conclusion is
reached ( B. 30/9/’3l) that cost of gold pro-
duction is £5 10s. to £6 per ounce; or that
the market value has a- connection with cost
of producing it except in a very general way,
with much time lag between cause and
effect. — Friar’s Balsam.
Generally, that is so; yet the production
cost of gold has an important effect on the
purchasing power of a sovereign. “The per-
sistence of gold as the measure of values—
in other words, its pre-eminent qualification
to discharge the primary function of money
—rests on a simple fact,” E. C. Fairchild
says in “Labor and the Industrial Revolu-
tion” : “It is itself a commodity, the product
of human labor applied to land. Since the
essential characteristic of money is that it
shall be accepted in exchange for any of the
innumerable articles of value that appear on
the market, it must itself contain value. A
trader would not part with his goods for
money without value embodied therein.” And
again, referring to proposed “goods stand-
ards” of the past: “A currency based on
production affords no guarantees for the
wide or equitable distribution of purchasing
power. The paper money based on unsale-
able goods would be deficient in purchasing
power or worthless. Gold, on the other hand,
in a period of crucial distress still commands
goods of a value approximately equal to the
value contained in the cash or bullion.”
Is Unemployment a New Disease?
The Bulletin, describing the industrial
progress of modern times, refers to the ter-
rible straits of our unemployed grandfathers.
But WERE there any unemployed, before the
age of mechanisation? We may have to go
back beyond our grandfathers’ day; but 1
think you will find that before, say, the
Napoleonic wars England at least was prac-
tically free of unemployed. — Rt. T. Travers.
Though unemployed were not gathered in
towns, there is no question of their preva-
lence in the sixteenth-eighteenth centuries. A
Settlement Act was passed in 1662 to make
each parish responsible for maintaining its
own unemployed. Later, parishes had the,
right to farm out their unemployed; the
wages received were pooled, and at one time
divided and at another time made up to a
fixed amount. The most famous of these
wage-fixings, which formed the basis of wage-
fixings in general for many years, said that
71 gallon loaves of
bread or its equivalent,
were the just wage
for a man with a wife
and two children. A
gallon loaf was Sib.
lloz.
Australia and Uncle
Sam
When you say we
have to put up £167
here to pay £lOO of
interest in New York,
J assume you mean
$486 of interest in
New York. Then you
say nobody can ex-
plain why Australia is
penalised because the
English pound is off
the gold standard.
The reason is simple.
If you had something
to sell, would you not
always want the high-
est price obtainable?
Australia could not,
now, because of the
enhanced value of dol-
lars in English money
caused by the decreas-
ed rate, possibly ex-
pect to secure dollars
at the old price
J. J.
The question was
not why Australia
“is” penalised, but
why it “should be”
penalised. Two
months ago £l3O Aus-
tralian paid a bill for
approximately $486 in
New York. To-day
it will pay a bill for
approximately only
$3BB. Yet it would
be impossible to show
that the £ Australian
is really worth a cent
less than it was two
months ago. On the
contrary, if the move-
me n t towards the
balancing of budgets
means anything at all
—and we were assured
that it was of the ut-
most importance—our
£ should rather have
improved in value;
and the righting of
our trade balance
should have helped
f u rthe r. Britain’s
misfortune did not
adversely affect us at
all; indeed, the fall in
sterling should have
helped us in certain
respects. Yet we find
our £ lia.s suffered a
great depreciation in
New York. Smith is
in business, and
Smith’s son is in , an-
other business thou-
sands of miles away.
The old man gets into
difficulties; but that
is no reason why,the
son’s cheques should
be refused.
Is the Monetary System All to Blame?
I am neither a supporter nor an opponent
of the Douglas plan; I am merely an inves-
tigator of the truth. Whether or not the
plan, has any merits it is painfully apparent
that a, reform in the monetary system is
inevitable. The power of production has far
exceeded the power of consumption, i.e., the
purchasing power of consumers based on
monetary earnings. If it were possible to
exchange the product; of each individual's
work or service, everyone in the community
could enjoy a■ higher standard of living and
have more leisure to enjoy the available
commodities. The only reason why this ideal
state of affairs cannot, be brought about is
that there is no effective “medium of
exchange.” What is the solution to the
problem of balancing consumption with, pro-
duction? We shall probably hare to resort
to a system of barter or the payment of
“goods tickets ” as remuneration for services
in production. —R. A DAMSON.
Professor Pigou has something interesting
to say on this point: “It may be —and indeed
it certainly is—-the fact that the monetary
and banking arrangements current at the
present time cause errors of optimism and
errors of pessimism.... because, when gen-
eral prices are rising, the ordinary man,
while seeing clearly the benefit to himself
that will result from the rise in his own
things, does not attend so closely to the
harm to himself that will result from the
rise in other things; and similarly when
general prices are falling. But to grant
this is not to grant that errors of optimism
and of pessimism are merely monetary
phenomena. In a world of pure barter they
would still exist: A and B each making now
an exaggerated, now an inadequate estimate
of the other’s prospective real demand for
his stuff.” He admits, however, that, “though
monetary and banking arrangements do not
play that over-ruling part in the causation
of trade cycles which is sometimes assigned
to them, they do play a very important
part.” And about that there seems no
doubt at all.
Finance and Production
Each nation has a fixed, amount of cur-
rency, but a movable, amount of wealth—
i.e., wool, buildings, bridges, roads, furni-
ture, etc. Note, though the value of this
wealth, increases, the actual currency docs
not increase in the same ratio. What is the
result? Everybody has plenty of assets and
the right to assets, but no cash. The banks
which have been financing this increase of
assets find their cash resources are, so low
that, they refuse to make any further ad-
vances—and once they do this business
stops, the white, ants of depression get to
work and everybody sujfei's. Because, you
cannot produce assets without producing
liabilities, and as our note issue is our basic
liability, how can we have continuous good
times unless we have a continuous increase
in the note issue?■ —Ui/laduixa.
This is right half of the way. To finance
increasing production there must be
increasing currency. If increased production
isn't accompanied by increased currency,
prices fall; as soon as prices begin to fall,
production eases off (manufacturers, natur-
ally. will not produce in a falling market)
and unemployment sets in. So far so good.
But increased currency doesn’t necessarily
mean increased notes; and there is not “a
fixed amount of currency.” Money means,
besides coin and notes, bank balances with-
drawable on demand; and bank balances
withdrawable on demand may be and very
often are the proceeds of advances. Now,
whether banks will make advances depends
upon many things. One of those things is
confidence that there will not be inflation:
if there is inflation, bank advances will be
repayable in depreciated currency; in other
words, the banks may lend f’s worth 20s.
and be repaid in an equal number of f’s
worth perhaps ss. Hence note issues must
be made with great caution; for any sign
of inflation will cut off the supplies of
credit, which are the most important thing
in sustaining industry and commerce.
A New Plan of Inflation
In a pamphlet by I. Rubins it is pro-
posed that exchange be lifted to 200 p.c. so
that “we will receive for our wheat, about
ss. per bushel in our currency .” He argues
that locally prices will not go up more than,
say, 20 p.c.; so that imported material would
be cost plus 200 p.c., which would, enable, say,
our woollen, mills to work three shifts.
Copper (£33 per ton London) would fetch
£lOO per ton in Australian money, which
would, enable, us to undersell competitors,
and make large dividends. Where is the
catch in it?- —E. C. A.
First, it would make our annual debt
charge abroad about £100,000,000; so that
our taxes would have to be more than
doubled. Second, it would multiply the costs
of imported raw T materials used in Austra-
lian industries. Thus the morning paper
would cost, say, 4d. instead of lid. Third,
the competitor in the U.S.A., Canada and
elsewhere would soon make a fuss, declar-
ing that we were dumping our goods, paying
for their production in depreciated currency
(our £ would be worth 6s. Bd.) ; and we
should be hit everywhere, by hostile tariffs.
In short, it is like all systems of inflation :
quite profitable until the other fellow finds
out what you are up to. Then he is liable
to eall you a dirty cheat, and refuse to have
any more truck with you.
NOT IN STOCK.
“Nearly 25,000 N. S. Wales boys and girls leave school at the end of the year. A large proportion
will join a junior unemployed army.”
THE SHOPKEEPER: “Work for your son? Why ask for work? Let me show you a very attractive
line in doles instead.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Florodora”
State Movies and Talkies
* :
The principal defect of “As Husbands
Go” at Sydney Cri. is that it is not quite
long enough to span the evening, and has
to be preceded by some entirely irrelevant
extra turn. On Saturday night, for instance,
Laurence Godfrey Smith played, on the most
cotton-woolly-toned piano in captivity, soul-
throbs by Chopin and Schumann —to the
puzzlement of patrons who arrived before
the fashionable hour of 8.30, and had an
uncomfortable feeling that they had strayed
into the wrong hall. The comedy, however,
was worth waiting for. The theme is not a
bit original, but as a compensation is not
a bit improbable. The half-score of char-
acters behave like human beings, and the
parts could not have been more .suitably cast
had the piece been written for the co. that
plays it. Most of the folk are supposed to
be Americans, but the audience is spared the
accent, and though they are also supposed
to be wealthy they never even mention
dahlers.
Harvey Adams, in his .smooth, easy com-
petent way, is a thriving citizen of Dubuque,
lowa. He has a heart of gold, prefers fish-
ing to golf, and doesn’t jazz. His 35-year-
old wife (Iris Darbysliire) goes to Paris
without him, chaperoned by his widowed
sister Emmie (Ethel Morrison). The ladies
philander, more or less circumspectly, and
their beaux follow them across the Atlantic.
The wife’s inamorato, an English minor
poet (Campbell Copelin), goes fishing with
the husband, and then gets drunk with him,
and finds he likes the husband too well to
rob him of his wife. Poor Emmie, wflio is
46, and very fond of her fantastic-looking
foreign follower (Leslie Victor), is com-
pelled to shield her sister-in-law, to accept
the implication that she is pursued by both
the arrivals from abroad. Her flapper
daughter, (Agnes Doyle), the daughter’s
young man (Rene Jope) and a 10-year-old
boy (Jackie Clarke) come very naturally
into the picture.
Miss Morrison’s portrayal of the widow 7 ,
an engaging mixture of geniality and w7ist-
fulness; the pertness of her daughter—-Miss
Doyle in addition to her other gifts can
dislocate her elbows and put them back again
—and the quaintly-expressed worldly wis-
dom of the cosmopolitan gentleman, w’hose
accent is very nicely managed by Mr. Victor,
keep the audience chuckling to such an extent
that the action is impeded. (That’s one
of the breaches of the stage illusion that
the talkies are making it hard for us to
tolerate. There are frequent pauses for the
laugh in the flicker plays, but they are dove-
tailed in w 7 ith split-second accuracy and
deftness.) Miss Derbyshire has to carry the
brunt of the serious business, and as her
role fits her as nicely as her ChauveL.gowns
she makes light work of it. A well-acted
comedy w 7 ith no bedroom scenes or smut,
but spiced instead w 7 itli an excellent
understanding of that rummy thing called
human nature.
¥ ¥
“Niue till Six,” by Aimee and Philip
Stuart, presented by the New Sydney Rep.
Soc., at St. James’s ITall, is played entirely
by women. The location is a swagger hat
and frock shop in London’s Regent-street.
The business has been built up by Mrs.
Pembroke, handsome, middle-aged and kindly.
She has a soldier son dying in hospital, a
daughter at college and another assisting
her —Glare, a tempestuous, hardened modern
miss, but deeply attached to her mother.
Among the senior members of the staff arc
Miss Roberts, a self-righteous prig; Freda,
burdened by family responsibilities and
hating her superiors, and a temperamental
French designer. Then there are the appren-
tices and the mannequins. Envy and open
dislike divide the establishment into half a
dozen warring factions. Mrs. Pembroke is
for ever settling petty disputes. Freda gets
a job for Gracie Abbot, a flapper; Glare per-
suades her mother to add to the pay-sheet
Bridgit Penarth, daughter of a. peer. Freda
resents the presence of the aristocrat,
declaring that Bridgit has no need to
work, and that her habits and her social
status w 7 ill only disturb the other girls.
Soon after the appointment of Gracie and
Bridgit a frock is stolen from stock. Clare
suspects Gracie, but Freda vehemently
defends her friend. Time passes and the
thief remains undiscovered. Bridgit and
Gracie strangely become firm friends.
Bridgit introduces Gracie to her set, and
Bridgit’s brother .Timmy is smitten w 7 ith the
charms of tlia little working girl. Gracie is
handicapped in. her new sphere by her lack
of smart clothes. Prompted by Bridgit she
borrows a frock from the shop for a Satur-
day afternoon’s outing, intending to replace
it after the week-end. She is caught in
the act by the pious Miss Roberts, who tri-
umphantly carries her off to Mrs. Pembroke.
Freda accompanies the pair to see that her
friend gets a fair hearing. Clax-e also attends
the inquiry. The discussion drifts away
front the subject of Gracie to a debate
on the economics of running a retail busi-
ness. Freda assails the Pembrokes heatedly.
She accuses them of waxing fat on the
labor of poorly-paid employees. Mrs. Pem-
broke replies h.v revealing her true finan-
cial position, which is near to bankruptcy,
and tells of her effort to keep the place
going while giving more than a fair deal to
the girls. Freda, greatly moved, confesses
to having stolen frocks herself. Clare says
that if she had been in Freda’s place she
vvoiild have also helped herself to a frock
or two. Mrs. Pembroke is magnanimity
itself, and as the forgiven girls troop out,
Mrs. Abbot arrives. “My son died this morn-
ing.” says Mrs. Pembroke. “It’s a strange
world we live in.”
Against a well-mounted background a
stylishly dressed cast extracted a good mea-
sure of tragedy and comedy from a play
which of its kind is as good as any seen
in Sydney for a long time. Mrs. J. W.
Maund captured the endearing qualities of
Mrs. Pembroke; Alice Bolger made Glare
a vital, capable character; Dorothea Vautier
interpreted faithfully the smouldering rage
of Freda; and Muriel Hodgson, as Miss
Roberts, gave a truthful rendering of an
unpleasant part. Barbara Smith w T as at
home as the care-free Bridgit and Muriel
Cobcroft depicted Gracie, a very common-
place flapper. Dorothy Whiteley also
deserves mention. Scott Alexander pro-
duced the show.
* * *
The best thing in the, current Sydney
Opera House revue is “The Melbourne
Express,” by the lively ballet. Rene Riano
is quieter; low-comedian Clem Dawe is
nicely balanced by Frith, and Vladimer Elin,
possessor of a non-fruity baritone, is the
week’s newcomer.
*. * *
The finest programme yet attacked by the
augmented forces of the Vic. Prof. Orchestra
at the Town Hall unfortunately clashed
with a Balokovic concert on the other side
of Collins-street. The Croat’s hall was
packed, the Town Hall was miserably under-
populated ; but one hesitates to say who
got the better bargain. The white-haired
Edward Goll was soloist in the Beethoven
piano concerto in C minor, and the lovely
chuckling story was. told with the restraint
and ease this pianist always brings to his
playing. Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony
preceded the concerto, and the professionals,
under Fritz Hart’s baton and with Stairiis-
law de Tarczynski as leader, had nothing
to reproach themselves with in the way
they handled a work of which a former
SOME AIRY FAIRIES OF “LOLANTHE,” AT SYDNEY HER MAJESTY'S.
Reading from left to right and top to bottom: Bernard Manning, Ivan Menzies,
The Page, Evelyn Gardiner, John Ralston, Conductor Andrew MacCunn and Mary
Hotham.
critic said with more truth than he intended
that the composer must have been drunk
when he wrote it. The magical allegretto,
with its thudding accompaniment of plucked
strings, w r as sensitively rendered; the presto
seemed a trifle furry. Delius’s “On Hearing
the First Cuckoo,” Fritz Hart’s “Seeds of
Love,” Sibelius’s “Karalia” suite and Beet-
hoven’s “Ah Perfido,” sung by Muriel
Cheek, completed a gargantuan banquet.
Miss Cheek is delightful when she gets
into the upper register. Writer under-
stands that for six rehearsals of three hours
apiece and the final performance the pro-
fessional orchestrions get ten shillings, and
they have to find their own dress-suits and
instruments. It is to be hoped this revela-
tion will not further embarrass the musicians
by bringing their gains to the notice of the
-taxation officials.
* * *
A new or revised version of “The Love
Step” closes a run of six nights at Melb.
King’s this evening. The failure of Mrs.
Railway Commissioner Clapp to make a
really interesting musical comedy along con-
ventional lines suggests that it might have
proved easier to write one along uncon-
ventional lines. Frankly, most of the time
“The Love Step” marks time. The lyrics
and music of Alaric Howitt are the best
features of the entertainment. Carrie Cairn-
duff, as Nichette, the street singer, who is
torn between love of Gordon Paert, the
seller of spaghetti, and Keith Chalmers, the
romantic tenor, sings nicely, and Miss Noel
Clapp, as a ticket-office attendant who has
swallowed a dictionary of the American
language, is a tip-top tap-dancer and a
comedienne who suffers from a shortage ot
the raw material of fun-making. Mrs. Clapp,
as Mathilda Shuffleby, also proves herself a
better character actress than a playwright
by draining the humors of feminine intoxi-
cation from a single glass of Burgundy.
The ballets are good and the dressing and
staging are plum pud., but the piece as a
whole gives the impression that its author
never bothered to observe anything except
when in a theatre.
William McKie, Melbourne’s new city
organist, was starred in a new role as
conductor of the Liedertafelists at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. He handled bis big
team of choristers with the same casual
ease as he handles his huge musical-box,
though, owing t 0 causes beyond Ins control,
the choral items were not the neatest things
on the programme. Grieg’s ballad “Lander-
kennung,” however, was splendidly sung, lihd
English baritone Clive Carey •. pleased ‘ the
general ear immensely in tlie' solo part. ‘‘St.
John’s Eve” (Rheinbergefr) .'was ■ also- ele-
gantly managed. In lighter vein Carey dealt
humor and vigor out to 'a v panel of English
folk-songs. A paddock of ’cello' solos - was
equally well rendered by Gwen Prockter,
and May Craven’s robust'-soprano did full
justice to the operatic aria “Ave Maria”
(Max Bruch). _ ”
* * * ■ ‘
The Greatest Show on. Earth (outside
Canberra) is back in its. ancient haunt,
Olympia, Melbourne. The . elephants don’t
appear to be suffering from the de-
pression. In fact,’ they look bigger than
ever: The polarfficars wear furs and, unlike
the ladies who shop from limousines in
Collins-street, they appear v to do it with a
perfectly good conscience. Ivazbeg’s -Cos-
sacks, who arc - reputed to have been born
in the saddle while - their mothers were rid-
ing to a bridge party, - are as sensational as
ever. The four Miss Wirths do surprising
feats in the air, and there are lions which
jump through flaming hoops for a living;
and, in short, all the old features.
# # *
Announced that the irrepressible Ernest
0. Rolls has placed himself at the head of
a phalanx of Melbourne financiers and under
the title of International Attractions, Ltd.,
will launch a series of educational, instruc-
tional and inspirational entertanments.
“Bright Side Up” will be the title of the
first boon to the public. Mr. Rolls says
that what the people want is somethihg that
will not force them to think. If somebody
could find a way of forcing them to think
that a bad show is a good one it would be
a boon to entrepreneurs.
¥ * *
The most important communique yet
issued from the legitimate front since Holly-
wood offended the conscience of the world
by its ruthless invasion of the field of speech
three years ago emanates from ' Field-
Marshal John H. Tait, commanding.in the
Australian sector held by the troops of J. C.
Williamson. The communique states that
an offensive on the grand-opera front will be
launched in Melbourne in February, 1932.
The attack will be continued in Sydney and
Maoriland, and the fighting is expected to
last six months. Italy has promised her
heartiest co-operation, picked troops con-
sisting of tenors, baritones, bassos and
sopranos to the number of 15 having declared
their readiness to serve, regardless -of per-
sonal convenience. Local troops, armed with
violins, oboes, flutes and other lethal wea-
pons, will be used unsparingly, and Aus-
tralian light infantry will be exclusively
employed. It is expected that the offensive
will rival that of 1924 in intensity. If there
is any fault to find with the plan of cam-
paign it is in the choice of artillery. “Aida,”
“Trovatore,” “Rigoletto,” “Un Ballo in
Maschera,” “La BohCmc,” “Butterfly,”
“Tosca,” “C. Rusticana,” “Pagliacci,” “Car-
men,” “Faust,” “Andrea Chenier” and
“Manon” may justify their resurrection on
the score of art, although they have been
heard often enough before; but why provide
transport for an obsolete nine-pounder like
Bellini’s “Norma” when there are so many
other more modern pieces of ordnance avail-
able? What about “Otello,” in which Verdi
attained to hitherto unsealed heights of
grandeur and loveliness; the same master s
rich and rollicking “Falstaff.” though that
has the demerit in a grand-opera audience’s
eyes of being more or less English in a way;
also some of the Russians? “Tu rondo t”
and’ the staggering “L’Amore de Tre Re”
were.-entirely new to Australians in 1928,
just as the tanks were in 1917, and they
both' gained their objective amid unanimous
applause;
* * *
A- plucky variety venture has for some
time been paying its way at Adelaide Tivoli,
with .prices from 6d. to two bob. Nat
Phillips, Syd Beck and Joe Lawman arc
the chief laughmakers.
* ¥ *
It is a sign of the times that the pro-
, minent corner in the Adelaide papers sacred
to the Royal from time immemorial has now
. been, usurped by the talkies. The Royal’s
own offering for the week is a Jack Fewster
miscellany, well selected : his own orchestra
with opera numbers by Marcelle Rerardi
| and others; short plays by Ray Walsh.
.Sando. and other Repertory experts; and
notably good dancing by the Lesley Bowman
. ballet.
The Palette.
Something unique and original may
always be expected from an exhibition by
Clarice Beckett. Last year she. made the
-telegraph-pole artistically respectable. This
.year in her show at the Melbourne Athenaeum
she does‘the same thing for the tarred road.
After l she has dealt with the tarred road, en-
tirely by realistic methods, it acquires a new
‘beauty, as did Battersea Bridge after Whistler
had looked at it. Miss Beckett never, seeks
the conventionally picturesque —she goes for
something infinitely harder. Few artists
would ..have the courage to try to paint a
subject like “The Concrete Mirror,” in
!which the lights from lamps and motor-
cars are reflected in a strip of concrete
'roadway; and few would be able to retain
a impression in such purity. It would
be difficult to find anywhere in contemporary
Australian art—certainly not amongst the
modernists— -anything so arresting in design
and '.so. remarkable in color as No. 34, show-
ing some trees, a motor-car, some dun sky
and a ; string of pearls, which are actually
th'e lamps of Collins-street. No. 30 will
please.. lovers of light, if it doesn’t satisfy
connoisseurs of horseflesh. No. 62 is another
amazing' first impression of wild sea and
flying' spindrift. To be given a fair chance
stich pictures require to be looked at from
-ay'reasonable distance, but how can the
public learn to appreciate them when even
critics poke their noses inside the frames
as if the olfactory and not the optic nerve
were the best judge of painting?
At the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
.Harry Dangar has a' show of water-color
pictures that purport to represent the
N.S.W. metropolis of 90 years ago. It was
a big town even then—Darwin, who saw it
in 1836, refers to it in his “Journal” as
“a great and populous city”—and sufficient
of the old still peeps through the new out-
line to make Mr. Dangar’s drawings feas-
ible. How he got them is his own affair.
Old photographs probably supplied the
drafting details, and the artist has had to
rely on imagination for his color and the
play of light and shade. This he has done,
so neatly that if these undated sketches are
brought forward 50 years hence, when age
has mellowed their pristine cleanliness, it
will be hard to convince anyone that they
were not the products of the period to which
they relate. About the best thing in the
show is a glimpse of the old Pyrmont Bridge,
with Darling Harbor in the middle distance
and the whole city spread as panorama in
the background. A strikingly good piece
of architectural perspective is the Bridge-
street Wool Exchange, as the. building looked
when it dominated the northern end of the
town.
■ “M.G.S.”; The present, outbreak of mod-
ernism in Australian painting is amusing
: fo anybody who has observed the same
phenomenon in Europe. The European mod-
ernists take enormous spreads of canvas and
in one picture will use up more paint than
Corot consumed in 20 landscapes. They will
perpetrate the portrait of a woman more than
life size, with elongated extremities, goitrous
neck and eyes on stalks like crabs, and pose
her against a table that offends against the
laws of gravity by remaining upright on
impossible supports. On her finger they place
a ring with rays of light emanating from it
like the Wilson’s Promontory lighthouse.
They may even show the lady’s internal
economy. Our Australian modernists can
hardly call themselves so, since they are
fully 40 years behind this movement as it
has progressed in the Old World centres of
enlightenment. They want to remain in
polite society and just be a wee bit uncon-
ventional, in order to attract attention with-
out running the risk of being thrown out
of the drawing-room. The works of the Euro-
pean modernists are interesting just as a
madhouse is interesting. Our Australian
modernists want to be only moderately non
compos mentis. The European modernists
at least have the courage of their folly and
'ignorance.
' Adelaide Art Gallery has bought, out of
the Society of Arts spring show, a large
Eldershaw picture of the old bridge at Rich-
mond (Tas.), and a glorious flower-study
by Nora Heysen, showing a big advance on
her work of last year.
Ola Cohn’s amusing caricature in stone
of a leering “Comedy,” more in the mode
of Mo than Gilbert and Sullivan, is one of
the most arresting exhibits in the Arts and
Crafts display at Melb. Town Hall. There
are some vigorous woodcuts by Bernard Rice
and a series by Myrtle Fasken, depicting a
shearer battling with a sheep, in which the
transition from black to white is too sudden.
There is the usual staggering array of tapes-
tries, drawn-thread work and other evidences
of woman’s love of the quaint and barbaric.
To a male critic, Eugenie La Gerche s needle-
work looks as lovely as anything. At one
end ladies were engaged in hand-weaving,
presumably as their contribution to the Bach
to the Horse movement.


\J
mmm
/&■
•y- j
-
• •. . V
J
•
r
g s
IliililMgils
:
1
JAL
11
CO
|
1
w
V
MMM
ilwsligc cJ^reJenU. . «
THE NEW DM HOSIERY
Grenadine Stockings are
made of fi'ne tightly
twisted silk.
Ordinary stockings are
made of this loose
fuzzy silk.
THE NEW PRESTIGE
PATENT HEEL
fits instantly and snugly
to the curve of the heel
wit bout a trace of pucker
or wrinkle.
Umuili£, GRENADINE SHEERS
ULL SHEER smoothness with an elusive bloom, moulding
jL-S with just a cloud of silk every movement of the limb,
giving the subtle touch of quality and beauty which brings to
your mind that oftTramed remark, “ How lovely are her
stockings!” That subtlety and beauty is now available to you
in Grenadine by Prestige.
No. 505 GRENADINE. —This new stocking is of extraordinary fine
gauge. Finer than anything previously knit in Australia and of
exquisitely dull and sheer True Grenadine Pure Silk from top
to toe. Though sheer, the special yarn from which it is knit gives
such service that, when .combined with its moderate price, women
can wear the latest in hosiery creations without being unduly
extravagant. Much hosiery sold as Grenadine is not Genuine Grena-
dine. When purchasing Grenadine Hosiery insist on Genuine
Grenadine by Prestige. It comes to you in all the new season’s ton-
ings with a dainty green and black French Picot Edge. Price per pair
/
No. 404
POWDERBLOOM-
A beautiful Dull Silk Stock-
ing built with all the qualities
of Prestige No. 505, butslightly
heavier, a service sheer weight
with a charming
green Picot Edge and
super mercerised
lisle heel and toe.
Price per pair. . .
9ii
j3res%
QUALITY
HOSIERY FULLY FASHIONED


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
' current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
[,MW
CHOIC
CIGAR
r/st
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITHEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
w
K cac "J
TO MEET THE TIMES
r>
■y z
ti
Tiental
Melbourne* Premier Rote!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from . 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for exteuded
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER. Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
FORCE OF HABIT.
TALKATIVE BARBER: “What cut do you take, sir?”
ABSENT-MINDED VICTIM : "Cut? Oh, the usual per cent., I suppose.”
‘ Dr. Mivart”: H. G. Wells’s fantastic
notion of a race of ants which successfully
challenged human supremacy may have some
foundation in fact. I have evidence to offer.
It is my wont to retire after my scientific
labors to a small workshop, there to busy
myself with structures of wood and metal.
For a fortnight past my bench has been
patrolled, whenever I am working, by a
small black-and-tan ant of the species
Myrmecia forficata. It may not he generally
know that in Australia is situated the
G.H.Q. of the world's ant army, and that
attached to the general staff are intelligence
officers of various species whose duty it is
to gain knowledge of various kinds. This
fellow who visits me belongs to the civil
engineering branch. lie takes no part in
food-getting or the daily humdrum tasks of
the common herd. li'is interest is centred
in construction, and he minutely inspects
all that 1 do. I discovered that he was
no ordinary ant in a peculiar manner. He
was absent for a day, possibly preparing a
report, and on his return I had completed
some joints of the kind known to cabinet-
makers as blind wedged mortises. These
exercised on the ant an unusual fascination.
He could not see how they were made, and
after a painstaking examination lasting an
hour he gave it up and decided to throw him-
self on my mercy. Advancing till he stood
directly in front of me he reared himself on
his hind legs and lifted his arms in suppli-
cation, his antennae indicating the joint that
puzzled him. I could not resist this mute
appeal, so, while he stood attentively by, liis
head cocked on one side, I fitted together
one of these joints. He understood imme-
diately. danced a little pas de sent of joy
at having solved the problem, and went off
instanter, doubtless to communicate his dis-
covery to his superiors. Possibly I have
done wrong, but I have a comfortable feeling
that I have a friend in the enemy camp and
that if “der Tag” comes in my time I shall
be spared while less observant humans are
being torn limb from limb by the ferocious
gulosa.
* * :|: *
“Gad” : A pioneer who visited Dunk Island
(N.Q.) 63 years ago estimated the then
population at about 400 (natives). This
population floated from island to island as
•far south as Hinchinbrook, but doe's not
appear to have voyaged north, or to have had
much communication with the mainland. In
1008 K. J. Banfield recorded that five or
six of the original inhabitants of Dunk and
four of the Hinchinbrook abos. remained
alive. In 1023, on Banfield’s death, they
were all gone. A few stone axes, a few
fish-hooks of pearl-shell, and some fast-
fading rock pictures are all they have left by
way of record. To-day Dunk' Island gives
a bare living to two whites and one (Burke-
town) black, who grow bananas there for
a Townsville employer.
“W.P.T.” : Why do people
persist in stating that the
musk plant has lost its scent?
“Glove Pink” repeats the
fallacy (B. 30/9/’3l). 1
can take anyone to several
places where the musk smells
just as delightfully as ever,
one place in particular being
the Big Jack mountain in
the far south-eastern corner of N.S.W. Musk
perfume, by the way, is not made from the
musk plant, but from that evil-smelling
animal the musk-rat.
* * * *
“Narara”: Hawkesbury people have a
queer legend about the stinging-tree, called
by old-timers in those parts the “tree of ven-
geance.” The story runs that when the
Great Northern-road was being made by con-
vict gangs near Wiseman’s Ferry one gang
PREPAREDNESS.
THE OPTIMIST: " By the way, Mary, did you put my cooking outfit in the bag? I’ll
want to fry some of the fish for lunch.”
HIS WIFE : “Yes, dear, and you'll find a tin of sardines there, too.”
was under the control of a particularly
brutal overseer, a ticket-of-leave man. Sting-
ing-trees were numerous about the ferry, and
this gang, goaded to desperation, tied the
overseer up. They stripped him and thrashed
him with leaves of the stinging-tree. Then
they marched back to the stockade, leaving
him on the. road. The man was dead when
found a few hours later, and two of the
gang were hanged.
“Herpes”: The treatment of
general paralysis by inoculat-
ing the patient with malaria is
now a proved success. The
latest advance on these lines
has been made by the curator
of the famous snake park at
Port Elizabeth, in South Africa,
who has for .some years past
been experimenting with snake
venom as a cure for epilepsy/
In a paper recently read before
the South African Society ho
stated that he had treated' 250
epileptics. Eighteen per cent,
of his patients showed complete
cessation of attacks, and only
six per cent, failed to respond.
All the others improved in gen-
eral health and physique, while
the frequency of seizures was
greatly lessened. The serum
used is composed of a mixture
of the venom of some of the
world’s deadliest snakes.
“Budgeree” : Just as the last schooner of
beer ordered by the quartette of motorists
was set on the counter, a weird specimen
of the human race materalised, from nowhere
apparently. “ ’lire’s me cobber, gents.—’arf
a snake,” he announced, at the same time
diving his hand into a bag and pulling out
a snake. It was a repulsive-looking thing
with a piece chopped off it. The barmaid
fled shrieking, and the four travellers with-
drew to a safe distance. In the confusion
the weird one dexterously picked up a beer
and drank it. “’E was as long as a bnllick
whip w’en I got ’im.” he continued, “but
you don’t want more’n ’arf a snake if you
go for makin’ pets of ’em. Wiv ’arf a snake
there’s only ’arf the pizen, an' if he gets
away or gets shook you can identify ’im.
You couldn't do that wiv a whole snake.
’Arf a snake’s enough” The publican
rushed in threatening manslaughter.
“Oil, well, if you’re not interested,”
said the intruder huffily as he deftly
finished the fourth schooner, “I’ll
take me mate an’ go. S’long.”
“M.L.C.” : Scientists are discovering that
many of our modern marvels were antici-
pated and brought to greater perfection in
the insect world. A member of the Cam-
bridge Research station states that a mos-
quito’s antennae are attuned to receive wire-
less messages at a greater distance, in com-
parison with its size, than our most up-to-
date radio-set. No two ’skeeters tune in on
the same wave-length and a male or female
can receive a call from a mate miles away.
The insects know something about building
construction, too. Analysis of the composi-
tion of the cement used by mason wasps was
undertaken at the request of the Portland
Cement Co., and many new buildings in
London have been erected with cement made
on the same formula. Ants also make a
kind of plaster of Paris, with which they
set broken limbs. They have been observed,
under a microscope, to carry an injured
insect to the operating theatre, where its
wounded abromen was cemented together.
Glow-worms throw off rays similar to X-
rays, and scientists are now engaged in
attempts to wrest from these little creatures
the .secret of cold light. When that is
gained the householder may get brilliant
illumination at a cost of a halfpenny a week.
* * ijj
“8.A.W.”: “Iford’s” “Ragged Thirteen”
(B. 7/10/’331 brings back memories of one
of them, probably the last—Jimmy Wood-
ford. It happened in ’l9. I had been goug-
ing wolfram at Hatch’s Creek, and had come
down to the Macdonnell in order to have a
fly at the mica deposits beyond Ruby Creek
toward the Plenty Plain. “Woody” was
keeping the store at Arltunga, waiting for
the rush, as De Garis had secured an option
over the claims there. We got on well
enough together, and I made his store my
base, impressing on him my hatred of plum
jam. I had had a gruelling of it in the
army. I threatened him with sudden death
if he forwarded one tin of the stuff in my
stores. The air turned blue when I opened
up his first consignment. Every variety of
plum, ancient and modern, was included in
it. Two weeks later I called to retaliate.
The Jester had the laugh on me. Sergeant
Stott was even then performing the last
rites, “Woody” having died in his sleep three
days previously.
THE TOET’S DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stands in bronze, above the chair
Whereon Macquarie’s consort sat;
And while I lingered idly there
I heard a far from captious pair
Applaud the pose, approve the hat.
’Twas Henry Lawson out-and-out,
They testified in dialogue.
The only element of doubt
Was whether it was Henry’s dog.
The mo. might be a trifle thick,
The fingers over-tapering.
But only carping souls would pick
Material for their pens to prick
In such a negligible thing.
The group was admirably done,
The execution subtly fine,
“But,” diffidently hinted one,
“It can’t be ‘That There Dog o’ Mine.’ ”
They praised, as vividly portrayed,
The swaggie and his attributes;
Found merit in the clobber frayed,
And both approvingly surveyed
Two pairs of realistic boots.
The artist wasn’t one to miss
A point, they held, or slip a cog,
nothing puzzled them but this ;
Who was it sat for Henry’s dog?
They found the statuary like
As life itself in its appeals,
Save that the canine didn’t strike
The eye as quite the allsorts fyke
Who’d trail along at Henry’s heels.
Still, with the nag King Edward sits
He’s obviously quite in line;
He fills artistic requisites,
However faultily he fits
The part of “That There Dog o’ Mine.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


BRITAIN —Make Your Tour Complete
fhe Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT. '
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to —
BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Qualcast (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOR ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. Win.
Each. Each.
P.ronze bearings 50/- 52/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/0
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
TO-DAY — TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done—it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
iCbmmoiiwcaltb Savfnaa Bankof Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
“Machete”: Nothing strikes the old bush-
hand so vividly nowadays .as the change
aviation has made. A man at Ilughenden
in n.-w. Queensland was gravely ill, and
blood transfusion was necessary. His brother
in Brisbane, 950 miles away, flew to the spot,
and the doctor who was to operate came
nearly 500 miles by air from Townsville.
Twenty years ago it would have taken the
Brisbaneite over a week by boat and train to
reach his objective. The doctor’s journey
would have occupied 24 hours. The Bris-
bane-Hughenden flight took 12 hours; the
doctor’s flip from Townsville less than half
that.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
FOREMAN: “Look here, Coolan—I saw you go into that pub two hours ago.”
COOLAN: “Did yer (hie) see me come out?”
FOREMAN: “No, I didn’t.”
COOLAN: “Then, if you shaw me (hic) go in and yer (hie) dian’ slice me come out-
well, I mush be in there yet.”
“Homfrey Beale”: The first letter-carrier
in N.S.W. was a convict. P.M.G. Panton of
the day was much exercised in his mind over
the matter, and on June 13, IS2B, wrote:
“I highly disapprove of such person being
employed in such a responsible and tempting
situation,” demanding that “a
proper and responsible person be
appointed with as little delay as
possible.” The effusion was
directed to the Hon. Alexander
McLeay. From it grew to-day's
army of bill-distributors.
❖ :j!
“Karaway”: The cluster of
monuments of historical interest
in the old Camperdown cemetery
(Sydney) was augmented re-
cently by the erection of tomb-
stones over the graves of Mongo
and Billy Perry, two abos. who
figured in the early history of
Manly, Warringah and Pitt-
water. and belonged to the tribe
of which Narrabeen and King
Bungaree were notable charac-
ters. The girl Narrabeen is im-
mortalised in the seaside village
which bears her name, but so far
King Bungaree, who was the first'
Australian abo. to wear a mon-
archical brass plate, has not been
honored. The plate was given to
him by Governor Macquarie, who
settled him and some of his fol-
lowers on a grant of land on
what is now Mosman —the blacks
called it Warringah. Bungaree
died at Garden Island, just 10()
years ago, and was buried beside
his queen at Rose Bay. Inland
there are two abo. monuments.
One of them, which was erected
near Kameruka squattage by
Robert Lucas-Tooth, marks the
resting-place of Doolin, one-time
King of the Kameruka and Bem-
boka blacks, who died in 1875.
The other stands in the bush
some miles away from Butter-
bone homestead, where it was
placed by local squatters—“To
the memory of Natty Brown,
Aborigine. A fellow of infinite jest.” Natty
died at Regenbah about 20 years ago.
* * * *
“Mulyan” : A man who prided himself on
his shooting was W. 11. Watson, manager of
Currawilla, on Farrar’s Creek (W.Q.), the
station that the late John Costello presented
to his stockman, Jack Farrar, after whom he
named the creek. Among Watson’s achieve-
ments was putting a rifle bullet through a
matchbox placed on a blackfellow’s head —
which goes one better than Bill Toll’s arch-
cry feat. But this was eclipsed when, for a
fig of tobacco each, he got two blackfellows
to stand face to face and hold a matchbox
between their noses. He cut it away
with a rifle ball without touching either
nose. But next morning when the marks-
DIDN’T WANT MORE TROUBLE.
THE PULLER : “Bail that water out, Jacky, quick-feller!”
JACKY: “Better leave it where it is, mine tinkit. Too much prurry water out there
already.”
man appeared with the rifle one of the
darkies edged away. “By cripes,” he said,
“this pfeller goin’ bush. Too much shootin’
about this place.”
$ s'fi :|s ❖
“Mac Ti”: The juice of the milk-tree,
which grows in the Torres Strait islands, has
strong purgative properties, a fact well
known to the natives. One way in which
they put it to use is when a lugger is out
at work and some of the crew decide that
a few days in town would be an acceptable
break. A little of the milky fluid dropped
into the captain’s cup of tea produces symp-
toms that seem like a severe touch of dysen-
tery, and this usually has the effect of caus-
ing sail to be hoisted and a quick course set
for Thursday Island.
# & 3ft *
“Tauwarra”: We were toiling along one
of those black-sand beaches in the Papuan
Gulf in an atmosphere reminiscent of a
hothouse. “How far to Orokolo now?” I
inquired of .a friendly village policeman.
“ ’Bout two-t’rec hundred yards, Taubada,”
he answered. “What do you know about
‘yards’?” I asked suspiciously. “Taubada,”
he declared with great dignity, “I savee
yard, feet, innis [inch], link, rod, pole or
perch, an’ acre. Before, I pull’m chain
’long surveyor.” We made camp three hours
later.
* . • * * *
“FY7”: There is not much need for con-
troversy over the nesting habits of the emu
(B. 14/10/’SI), for they have long ago been
docketed. Like his relatives the ostrich and
the rhea, old-man emu not only keeps watch
and watch with the missus during the incu-
bation period, but after that takes entire
charge of the family. This is largely due
to the scandalous fact that the lady emu
is not by any means monogamous, though
her partner for the time being is. As soon
as one clutch of eggs is hatched the lady
goes philandering elsewhere. Poor puppa
has to mind the kids, and very faithfully
and well he does it until they are able to
fend for themselves.
* * * *
“Landi Khana”: Troops watching the
n.-w, frontier of India are, I read, to deal
with the ever-turbulent hillmen just over the
way in a fashion of which Geneva must
highly approve. When insurgent lasii-
kars are observed to be forming, aero-
planes will fly over them, and, instead of
expostulating with bombs or machine-gun
fire, will adjure the intending sinners to re-
pent. The loud-speaker used is so powerful
that even from a height of thousands of
feet it sounds like the voice of the Last
Judgment. It is doubtful whether the
scheme will work. The Pathan, like other
primitives, understands an appeal to his finer
feelings when backed by lethal weapons, but
is apt to dismiss manifestations of this sort
with a shrug and the reflection that it is
only another of the Sahib's damphool antics.
When Commander Erskine hoisted the
British flag in Tort Moresby years ago he
was struck with this tendency among the
Papuans. By way of impressing them lie
ordered an elaborate firework display. Far
from being scared or impressed, brown
brother mostly turned his back on it and
£ ri °d to cadge another half-stick ot tobacco
,rom bis new acquaintances,
f „ , ’ . . „
„ Mako : Another instance of the vitality
°£, wi \ d tilings. In Goal burn (N.S.W.) the
electnc-light poles have a curved iron
arm holding the lamps, and m one of these
crooks a kookaburra managed to get caught
by the head. ihe bird was noticed on a
F^ lday morning by several passers-by all of
w b° m concluded it was dead- Ab intervals
ot l ier kookaburras visited the victim and
sat concernedly on the pole, but it. was not
until Saturday afternoon that a feeble flut-
tering of its wings signified to a sympathetic
g roU p 0 f onlookers that the bird was still
alive. After a search for long ladders had
been unsuccessful two ladders Were tied
together . up this frail and dangerous
contrivance a bird-lover climbed cautiously.
an< j w jth great difficulty and some risk of
electrocution released the jack. It had hung
there by the neck, swaying in the cold winds,
f or t W o days, and was still very much alive
w hen rescued
*‘* * *
“Viau”: The N.G. police-boy, quoted by
“Mauri” (B. 23/9/’3l), who scrubbed the
gaol inmates with phenyl and sand may
] m ve known more than his taubada. The
treatment lie gave is almost exactly that
which was once the standard cure for hos-
jais (scabies). The disease was supposedly
due solely to dirt, and the sufferers, with
smelly, loathsome-looking pustules all over
them, were given scant sympathy. When
told to make them bleed, a doctor-boy—dis-
gusted with the job—applied cocoanut-shell
0 r husk and sand with vim. They were
then liberally washed down with strong
phenyl or a mixture of lime and sulphur,
and sent to their regular work. Such treat-
mont was as effective as later more humane
methods of giving a scrofulous native a skin
as smooth as well-worn saddle leather.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : It isn’t often that one goes
wallaby-hunting at sea, but passengers on
a north-bound steamer the other day saw
a good-sized specimen captured in the middle
of Albany Pass, not. far from Cape York
It was about seven o’clock in the morning,"
and the wallaby, out for a. swim before
breakfast, was making good going from the
mainland across to Albany Island with
his head only above water. A native’fishing
lugger beating through the Pass spotted
him. and putting about sent a lad over
the ‘jib-boom to collect Joey
THE VETERAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a hard white road where my roots
spread out,
A road that is leading west.
It winds by a mound and a fallen cross
Where a pioneer lies at rest.
I have stood the storms of a hundred years;
I have sheltered the black and white
When the summer suns had a furnace heat
Or the chill winds blew in the night.
I am twisted and bent like a cripple’s back,
And my bole is agape with cracks;
There are knobs and nipples on either side
That have baffled the splitter’s axe.
I have felt the water lap round my roots
When the river swirled in a flood ;
But I stood while the weaklings crashed
around,
To be buried deep in the mud.
I have stood through seasons lean and hard
When the sky for a year was blue,
While the earth was dry as a sunbleached
bone
And my leaves were a russet hue.
But I blossomed anew, when the first rains
came,
In the honey-scented air.
And the things of the bush brought forth
their broods
From burrow and nest and lair.
Now a lone crow sits on my topmost bough,
Coal-black, with a snow-white eye
That can see afar as he croaks a dirge
To the winds and the steely sky.
He can see the fields where the corn’s awake,
Full ripe with a golden ear ;
And I think as he caws with head aslant
He knows that my end is near.
N.S.W.
J. GRAHAME.


4|
KEEN BUYERS
who, for economy's sake, demand the
utmost value, and who, by experience,
know good windmill value when they
see it, will find the Sky meet, every
requirement of high-grade windmill
construction and capacity to deliver
water in copious quantity, consistently
and with that absolute dependability,
possible only in machines of the
highest quality.
Catalog free —write for your copy now.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ,2 n
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman); . , laM
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L-C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND,
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3. fnnherra
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, s ° Australia, and a*
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and a 1
the world. . ,
ill Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars ot
Safe Rentals on application.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(a 1s o at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations ,
for con- /
ferences,
teams,” sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FQWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
fs
SMOKE-OH!
HE’D CAVE IT A FLY.
TAILOR: “And what about a deposit?”
DAVE: “Well, I ain’t up to these ’ere noofangled fashions, but
you can put one in. I’ll give it a go, anyhow.”
It is a Government Savings Blank to the
old depositors.
* *
“Regarding the enormous sums owed by Australia
overseas, a way out must be found.” —“Labor Daily.”
Meaning, of course, any way out but a
weigh-out.
*
CATASTROPHE.
“I gave her a necklace, but when she found, the
stones were imitations she threw them at me.
■—Melbourne plaintiff.
11c bought the lady paste. His zeal
To win her was no passing whim.
And then she found they were not real,
And mercilessly pasted him!
* *
This is a time when N.S.W. landlords
have more rents in their pants than in their
pockets.
“Speaking against the Gas Regulations Bill in
the Vic. Assembly, Mr. Macfarlan said only a group
of fanatics wanted a gas bill.” — “Herald. ’
True. Yet the gas cos. keep on sending
them.
* *
SYDNEY, 1941.
Bluggins awoke. Noticing it was 7 a.m.,
lie tossed to decide whether he would get
up or not (see by-law 11562, N.S.W. Gaming
and Betting Act). The verdict was against
him, but he couldn’t shave, as he had lost
his razor at the Gosling Poker School the
previous night. However, he managed to
win a chop in the Garden Breakfast Ballot,
and he was runner-up for the “Lang Daily”
in the Government newspaper machine.
Having seen the kids off to school (they had
won three months’ education in the “Sun’s”
Marbles Competition), he strolled into the
city. He had already won a prize in the
State Transport Lottery, but had traded it
in for a wager on the Schoolgirls Under 12
100 yards championship. His first move
was to buy a ticket in the Trades Hall
Three-hour Day Consultation. Great was
his glee to find that he had won that most
treasured of prizes—a day off from his work
in the State Gaming House, Snakes and
Ladders Department.
“Now,” he mused exultantly as he placed
a bet on McHuffy for the C Grade Metro-
politan Chess Championship, “I have only
to win my lunch and I’m set till the wife
gets home to-night with the dole money.”
*
“Blood-letting was once a part of the duties of
a barber.”— “Argus.”
It still is.
* *
STUNT REPORTER’S GLOSSARY.
Male divorce petitioner who can afford a-
K.O.: —Captain of commerce: Leading
figure in business
world : Millionaire:
Influential clubman.
Residence of party
to divorce proceed-
ings that last more
than a week:—Pala-
tial home where
wealth and fashion
erst foregathered:
Dream palace built
for the radiant bride-
to-be : Monument to
a happiness now
dead: Mansion set
in the swooning
beauty of an old-
world garden.
Co-re. (Solicitor’s
clerk) : —Eminent in
legal circles.
Co-re. (IF. and 8:
Board employee) :■ —-
Player of star role
in one of our city’s
most vital services.
Co-re. (Inspector
of Nuisances) :—Dis-
tinguished public ser-
vant.
Co-rc. (on the
dole) : —O n e on
whom fickle Fate has
frowned.
Female divorce
litigant who can
afford a K.C.: —Daz-
zling society beauty:
City’s smartest
dresser: Government
House belle: (If
under 60) Leader of
our city's Bright
Young Things: (If
over 60) prominent
charity worker.
Male accused
(murder) : —T a 1 1,
athletic figure fault-
lessly tailored: A
stern yet kindly face.
not unmarked by trouble’s searing lines: ‘'l
love flowers and little children,” said the
notorious gunman simply.
Female accused (sly grog) : —Dignified
and ladylike appearance: Dressed in the
height of fashion : “Euchred yer that time,
yer cow,” Smiled the Underworld Queen, and
swept past the Inspector to her limousine.
V- *
BA RL ING H TJRS.T EPITA PH.
His sins were red as that rearm place
To which 1 he knew he’d one day go:
So in the intervening space,
He never ceased consuming “snow.”
* *
Bookmakers are sympathetic towards the
unemployed, and hope that, by Melbourne
Cup day every workless person will have
found something to “do.”
“The Federal Treasurer considers Mr. Lang an
illiterate lowbrow.”
In N. S. Wales they regard him as very
well red.
* *
FINIS.
\ deep-throated roar went up from the
crowd. The police cordon strained under
the terrific pressure. A battery of news-
paper cameras clicked, bands blared and
guns in the Outer Domain roared, as with
head up and jaw set the last man with the
last shilling in N.S.W. took the salute from
DAMAGED GOODS.
“Waiter, this steak’s so tough. I can’t even
cut it. You’ll have to take it back.
“Sorry, sir, we can’t take it back. Youve
dented it.”
a picked guard of unemployed, representing
the State’s million and a half dole-drawers,
and strode into the Sydney Taxation Depart-
ment.
THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN.
The brown men scoff and the blade men
laugh
At the great white lord who trouble
m arries ;
They scorn to support a better half —
A burden the white man humbly earnest
“The Bishop of Goulburn complained that politics
had become a trade.”
And the Nats, and C.P. want to form it
into a union !
* #
HIGH FINANCE.
“It’s a cert., or you may be sure I
wouldn’t be in it. I don’t say so because
I’ve put. a few thousand in. and accepted
a directorship. All I want is
to do a friend a good turn.”
“What about the depres-
sion ?”
“It’s over—been over for
months. We in the inside
running Z enow. x\nyhow, you
can see for yourself—wheat
up, metals up. wool up.”
“But will they stay up?”
“Ha ! Ha ! How nervous
you small men are! Try and
take a world view old man.
Here’s the French Premier
conferring with H'oover in
Washington. What’s the
upshot going to be? A re-
lease of credits as sure as
you’re standing in this bar.
Billions made available for
industry. Increased employ-
ment, smashing profits, for-
tunes for coves like us with
vision and courage. Come
now, let, me put you down
for a thou.”
“I don’t like it.”
“Well. say. £100.”
“T’ tell the truth, I
haven’t got the money.”
“Meantcrsay Funny
thing, but I’m short of ready
cash myself. Could you let
me have five bob till to-
morrow’? Short yourself?
Too bad. How about a
bob?. . . . Much obliged.
You’ll get it back, never fear
and if you change your mind
about that £500,000 proposi-
tion, be sure and let me
known”
C-ESAR.
Our Treasurers appear to he
Like aped motor-cars that wheeze.
If one runs short, of “oil,” then he
Without delay begins to seize.
TRADE REVIVAL.
As predicted in the “Daily Blah.” there
are definite indications that at long last
the murky clouds of depression are lifting.
Following the “Blah’s” policy of service to
its great public, a special investigator was
detailed to collect first-hand information
from authoritative sources. Below we print
a condensed account of his first week's
activities: —
Bottles More Plentiful.
Mr Joseph Crowneork. of Surry Hills,
reports that during the past three weeks
he has noticed a steady increase in the num-
ber of empty containers, particularly on
Mondays. Mr. Crowneork attributes this
welcome increase to the fact that his cus-
tomers are now drinking more beer.
Rent Arrears Being Made Up.
A leading suburban estate-agent bas three
tenants who ate more than 50 weeks behind
with their rent, 40 between
50 and BO weeks, and 118
between 30 and 20 weeks.
Four have paid the current
week’s rent., totalling £2 2s. Od.,
and contributed ss. 3d. and a
dozen empty bottles towards
arrears. “Things,” said _ the
estate-agent, “are definitely
looking up.”
Shire Council Rates.
The Sandy Flat Shire
Clerk wore a beaming smile
when interviewed. Until the
tide began to turn 117 rate-
payers had been working off
their indebtedness; now the
number is but 114. One rate-
payer won a lottery prize; an-
other died ; a third has gone
to' a job in Queensland.
Money More Plentiful.
Mr. Horace Welsher-Layem, .T.P., inter-
viewed in his ,s.-p. shop, stEted that although
Saturday was a bad day for him he was
convinced there was more money about. No
fewer than three ten-shilling bets were booked,
whilst there was an all-round increase in the
size of amounts staked by punters, sixpenny
bets giving way to shilling ones, and dole
coupons being scarcer.
* *
“If sufficient, funds were forthcoming for social
work sin could be almost entirely banished.”
—Melbourne clergyman.
Money being the rout of all evil.
* *
THE PHILOSOPHICAL BANKRUPT.
Despite my lack of £ s. d.,
Though fast my many debts grow,
1 am quite well financially —
In fact, I’m feeling “good-owe.”
* *
“Members of the Australian Health Club are to
be summoned if caught sunbaking.”
The N.S.W. authorities don’t like these
nude ideas.
* #
“Australians seem to have lost, their nerve.”
—“Financial Times.”
And tvo could name some politicians who
have got it.
AND THEN
MRS. B.: “Bertie, how quiet they are in the next room!”
BERTIE: “Yes, m’dear. It reminds me of my army days .
There was always a lull before an engagement."
“We can expect an improvement within the next
three months at yeast.”— “S. M, Herald.”
As against which there’s the possibility of
a rise in bread.
AT THE NINETEENTH.
I would sing of the drive of glorious strength
That comes from a hit that is clean,
As the hall screams over the fairway's length
To rest on the edge of the green •
Of the joy that follows a perfect shot—
'Was there ever a pleasure as good?
1 would sing of it nobly—if l were not
Such a hopeless dud with the wood!
1 would fain descant on the perfect “lay"
As the caddie removes the pin;
On the delicate tap twelve feet away,
On the thrill as it trickles in;
In the pride of achievement I'd indite
A pet of a pome on it —but
Of what earthly use would it he to write
When my hest is a ten-inch putt?
/ would break into verse on the added zest,
When you're caught in an awkward spot,
As the hall in a hunker comes to rest
And awaits the explosive shot.
To describe the delight of recovery
Would from me he conceit at its worst.
For whenever the damned thing’s happened
to me
I’ve hut buried it deeper and cursed.
I would gladly wield me a painter's pen
To portray the exuberance found
In defeating the “Colonel" again and again
And the cheer of a perfect round.
But such ecstasy would, I am hound to
state,
Be amiss, as no doubt you'll agree,
Coming from one whose best effort to date
Is a hundred and twenty-three!
S. W. K.


the max wiio has revitalised
THOUSANDS OF NEURASTHENIC
CASES.
I’ll Give You
Bulldog Courage!
'J’HERE is no greater obstacle to your health,
happiness and success than a nervous dis-
position created by morbid fears, self-conscious-
ness, blushing and other nervous ailments.
Nervous fears rob you of the joy of living;
deprive you of the ability to reveal your real
self —to develop your talents and make a head-
way in the battle of life!
Are you a victim of some form of fear?
Are you tortured by the fear of darkness,
disease or insanity ? Are you a failure because
you lack the ability to get out of the rut and
become a leader instead of one of the led?.
Do you feel awkward and self-conscious in
company, and blush stupidly when spoken to?
Are you “a bundle of nerves,” subject to fits
of depression, morbid thoughts, and a habit
of worrying over trifles?
If you are suffering from any of the following
nervous symptoms, send at once for this book,
and learn how to conquer your weakness instead
of letting it conquer you!
Lassitude
GROUNDLESS
FEARS
WORRY
DEPRESSION
LACK OE WILL-
POWER
INSOMNIA
WEAK NERVES
SHYNESS
BLUSHING
LACK OE CON-
FIDENCE
MORBID THOUGHT
SELF-CONSCIOUS-
NESS
A Startling NEW BOOK
Offered FREE to every
Nervous Reader!
YOU cannot read this remarkable book with-
out a quickening of your pulse—without a
surge of red-blooded courage. It is one of
the most startling books ever written. It has
shown .hundreds, the way to health, prosperity
and self-confidence. You can cure yourself
at home as I did. Send only 4d. in stamps
for postage and get this amazing book by
return post.
- MAIL NOW
FREDERICK GRAY,
DEPT. 6, LOMBARD CHAMBERS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me a copy of your book,
if‘Nerve Strength, Self-Consciousness and Per-
sonality.” . I am enclosing 4d. in stamps to
cover cost of postage. This places me under
no obligation whatsoever.
NAME ,
ADDRESS
S.B. 28/10/'3l.
She always runs
on C.O.R.
She’s very very
speedy
HL
And her engine’s
always healthy—
that’s the best of
C.O.R.
I have a little motor
car that travels round
with me,
(°
ts
so climbs the hills
with glee.
is my little baby
(After Robert Louis Stevenson),
Your Australian citizenship carries the privilege of partnership
in the splendid C.O.R organisation—half-owned by your
own Commonwealth Government. So, vision the future
and do your part. Every gallon of C.O.R you buy not only
benefits you car but helps Australia through.
MOTO
• O
PIRIT
*
A fine Spirit . . and your own
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Victoria: Pooiman Street. Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. Phone M 3261 Refinery: Laverton, Vic.
Sydney: 117 Pitt St. Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales, DALGETY & CO. LTD.
C.M.1.12'36/31 ' '
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Fifty Fathoms Deep” (Columbia), at
Sydney Capitol, is another marvel of spec-
tacular illusion. Jack Holt —flash, com-
bative, a disillusioned ladykiller—and his
long-haired, bone-headed young friend,
Richard Cromwell, are divers. Richard is
trapped into marriage by Loretta Sayers,
whose profession is a much older one than
his. How is the infatuated lad to be con-
vinced of his mistake? The producer solves
the problem, and works in his sensation, by
sending the lady to her death in a million-
aire’s yacht. A gale is raging, but Jack
Holt goes down, finds the guilty pair, and, in
order to spare the feelings of young Richard,
who is at the telephone, says there is only
one bahdy. “Only one bahdy,” reports the
boy. Then Holt gets caught between two
girders, Richard goes down with an oxy-
welder to free him, sees Loretta and realises
her perfidy. The whole story leads up to
the diving scenes, which are beautiful as
well as exciting; but it is interesting in
itself. Chiefly because the producer hasn’t
allowed the action to hang for an unneces-
sary second.
The other Capitol show (Universal’s “Bad
Sister,” an adaptation of Tarkington’s “Girl
Who Wanted Everything”) has an all-star
cast of comedy stars. Zasu Pitts and Slim
Summerville are amongst those present.
Sidney Fox is the bad sister. She takes
Conrad Nagel from Bette Davis, turns him
down for Humphrey Bogart, a crook, and
when Bogart turns her down tries to get
Nagel back, only to find he has consoled him-
self with virtuous Miss Davis. Her lightning
change of character and happy marriage to
Bert Roach, a fat, futile young fellow who
was previously abhorrent to her and all the
other members of the family, supplies the
unconvincing finish. A feeble show consider-
ing the money that has obviously been spent
on it. Miss Pitts, as a comic servant, and
one of those precocious small boys whom
Hollywood turns out by the dozen, get nearly
all the laughs.
Jeanette MacDonald and Victor McLaglen
■*re starred in Fox’s “Annabelle’s Affairs.”
at Sydney Regent. It is an unusual screen
farce; it sticks to its story. This concerns
Ihe efforts of an extravagant young wife,
masquerading as a cook, to recover some
valuable mining shares from a drunken
millionaire; also the efforts of a Manly
Stranger to gain the scrip and her luv. The
M.S. turns out to be her minor-hubby. She
didn’t know him because he had had a
shave; anyway, she had spent a mere
II hours with him. Only now and
then glimpses' of the Jeanette MacDonald
of “The Vagabond King” are caught. She
sings once, and oven the song helps the story
along. McLaglen is her husband, and, of
ccurse, he has a fight—with four servants this
time—accompanied by the usual damage to
everything but himself. As the millionaire,
Roland young continues the drunk begun in
“Madame Satan” and maintained through-
out “New Moon.” Leon Gordon wrote the
dialogue, which is unremarkable.
* *
Leon Janney, natural and clean-looking,
is yet another screen juvenile worth watch-
ing. He is cursed with a laugh which
grates in spite of its spontaneity, but in
“Father’s Son” (Sydney Roxy), First
National’s version of a Booth Tarkington
yarn, he is not called on to laugh much —a
fellow whose father thinks lie can do no-
thing right has little to laugh about. Leon
runs away, and his screen parents (Lewis
Stone and Irene Rich) part company, mother
declaring that, as he cannot be happy in
his father’s house, it is her duty to take
him where he can be. This crisis found
both adult stars wanting: Irene Rich,
so motherly in repose, is too theatrical in
this outburst, and Stone fails to convey that
he feels her departure—or anything else.
John Halliday is the nice doctor who be-
friends the lad and his mother. Somehow
the director refrained from even hinting that
he is in love with the mother, so she .stui
loves her husband when a circus and lone-
liness bring about a happy reunion. Mickey
Bennett is the cowardly kid next door. Once
an infant phenomenon of the 4 silents, he
lias not trained on.
The plot of lan Hay’s “Tilly of Blooms-
bury” (Sterling), at Sydney Lyceum, deals
with the infatuation of a rich young man
for a working girl. Tilly Welwyn is a
dressmaker, and her mother conducts a
shabby boarding-house in Bloomsbury. Dick
Mainwaring is the son of a baronet ruled
by a haughty wife. _ The couple meet at
an ice-rink and within a month Dick has
popped the question. He escorts the girl
to his parents’ stately home in the country,
but the little dressmaker becomes quickly
aware of the fact that she is unwelcome; the
Mainwarings, however, agree to visit the
Welwyn abode. In the midst of feverish
preparations on the part of the Welwyns
to make their home more presentable a
bailiff, played by Sydney Howard, appears
on the scene. He, of course, consents to
act as butler; but a fight between lodgers
brings the visit of the baronet and his lady
to an abrupt finish. Following further
clashes the young man nobly casts off his
family, pays off the bailiff and is joined to
Tilly at the fade-out. Phyllis Ivonstam is
not an ideal Tilly—she is better suited by
something quieter than this knock-abcut stuff.
Richard Bird looks the part of Dick.
“I j. de R.”: It takes at least 6000 feet of
celluloid to make a bare 1000 feet of talkie
nowadays, and the whole thing may have to
be shot again. The positive, negative and
final print of the sound run off with 3000 feet
and the visual part gets away with nearly
as much. Then all the prescience in the
world won’t prevent some unforeseen detail
rendering the whole thing waste. When
Thring was .shooting “The Sentimental
Bloke,” Keith Desmond, as uncle, had to
grow a natural beard, the artificial variety
being no good to the keen eye of the camera.
Desmond appeared in one shot which ran
into another taken three weeks later. If
liis face foliage had not been kept carefully
trimmed audiences would have been presented
with the spectacle of a beard growing three
weeks older in a second, like the mushrooms
in the educational films. Monty Grover's
“The Co-Respondent’s Course,” which was
Thring’s first attempt, probably consumed
150,000 feet of gelatine, although the com-
pleted masterpiece measures less than 10,000
feet. This helps to explain why previous
attempts to make pictures cheaply failed so
disastrously.


RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL
If you are troubled with this complaint,
write us and we will send you our cata-
logue, fully describing- our
PATENT AIR CUSHION
This appliance does away with all springs,
giving a feeling of ease and comfort from
the first day’s use.
It is the only scientific apparatus yet invented
for this complaint. No matter what strain
you place on it, it will hold a rupture
firmly in place, exerting a uniform pressure
all the time. To prove what we say
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL
If it is not satisfactory, we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women
and children, and the price is within the
reach of everyone.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere,
WINSLOW CO.,
100 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. MeLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—-Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD.. Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open t 0 you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first, choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that lias
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Kate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON-: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street. Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
TOO MUCH FERTILISER.
“Noah Fraid” : On a recent market-day at
Warragul (Vic.) I heard an animated dis-
cussion on the possibility of harm being done,
to the crop by excessive use of arti-
ficial fertiliser. As one who lias had a deal
of experience with all classes of crops on
various types of soil, I say you can destroy
a crop or yield by administering too much
manure. A little strychnine or arsenic is
often given as a tonic with useful results
to man or beast, whereas three or four times
the quantity would kill. It is much the
same with fertiliser. Over-supply it and
correct plant-food fatios are dispersed, the
elaborated sap becomes sluggish and immov-
able, crystals of salts have time to form,
concentrate and deposit. In fact, everything
which is unnatural happens, so the plant
becomes hidebound and dies, or exists in an
unhealthy state, to become an easy prey to
disease.
To grow a crop of any kind to perfection
certain definite amounts of the three plant
foods, nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash,
must be available in the soil. Further, in
every perfect plant of the perfect crop a defi-
nite ratio exists between the content of plant
food; that is, every plant will contain a
fixed proportion of nitrogen, phosphoric acid
and potash. Assuming phosphoric acid to
be deficient in the soil, it follows that the
ratio or proportion of this food to nitrogen
and potash within the plant is going to
suffer; instead of its containing, say,
lib. of phosphoric acid to 21b. of nitrogen
and four pounds of potash, we find the pro-
portion of phosphoric acid to be 41b. only.
Should we, by a slapdash system of inten-
sive manuring, endeavor to overcome the
deficiency, once and for all, by applying large
quantities of super.—say, lOcwt. per acre,
where lcwt. would be sufficient—the crop
fails through the forced feeding producing
an abnormal ratio.
You can pick up a lot of points in the
saleyards on market-day if you are not too
proud to learn from the experience of Others.
. IN DEFENCE OF THE DRAFT.
“Trepex”: The draft on wool (B.
30/9/’3l) is neither the imposition nor the
anomaly it may appear to be. Buyers regard
it as a .sort of discount of weight; paying
cash, as they do, they do not think this con-
cession of less than 1 per cent, is much to
ask of the vendor. Wool-lore is very far
from an exact science. The behavior of the
raw material under various and changing
conditions, particularly in regard to weight,
is not governed by any .set or unchanging
principles. In the case of two bales of wool,
shorn at the same shed on the same dify,
sent down to Sydney on the same truck and
stacked together in the broker’s warehouse,
one may gain in weight and the other lose ;
the thing has occurred in my own experi-
ence. The gainer may go on gaining or the
loser go on losing, or the processes may
be reversed; no one can tell for certain what
is going to happen. It has always been like
that, ever since wool was shorn from the
sheep’s back; hence the old age of the draft
custom. Nor can the very exact scales of
to-day overcome the difficulty. Scales are
recorders, not adjusters, of basic properties
in raw materials.
The buyer has to take over big weights of
this uncertainly-behaving commodity, paying
cash for it without discount, often guaran-
teeing his clean-scoured yield to within three
or four per cent. His assessment of price has
to depend on purely human judgment of a
material so notoriously evasive, of set judg-
ments. If the wool falls below a small
margin of yield, and he is a commission
buyer, he has to pay out of his pocket for
the difference; if he is a salaried man, he
risks losing his job. Is it a wonder that
lie fights tenaciously for the draft? It may not
be easy to admit that the draft covers pos-
sible mistakes in buying, but the more a
man knows about the job the more he knows
that something of the sort is needed. And
why not let that something be what the
buyer is content to have? If he takes it
out in another way, as he is sure to do if
he is deprived of the draft, the new way
might easily be more costly to the grower.
LAMB-MARKING AND THE BLOWFLY.
“Liss” : In isolated cases last spring blow-
flies attacked newly-dropped lambs, and on
many N.S.W. properties up to 80 per cent,
of lambs were struck after marking. This
necessitated their being put over the rail
many times for treatment, and caused severe
losses. It is occurring again this spring,
and no phase of tlie increasing struggle with
the fly is more of a worry.
By carefully employing such methods as
we have evolved, commencing some time be-
forelambing begins, the trouble play be mini-
mised. Trapping and poisoning should be
carried out at all times, but' should be inten-
sified in and -around the, lambing paddocks
for two or three weeks before the ewes are
due to start. Whether ewes .should be
crutched or not prior to lambing is a matter
of opinion, but there is no doubt that they
should be jetted with a 10 per cent, solution
of arsenic, applied hot and as near the due
date as one considers safe. All lambs that
die during lambing should be collected into
heaps (a split bag across the saddle is handy
for this) and poisoned with a 5 per cent,
arsenic mixture —these baits work wonders
in keeping the flies in check.
When approaching the time for lamb-
marking, launch a campaign of poisoning
and trapping in and around the yards to be
used. For the poisoning a tip-top bait can
be made by throwing the offal from the kill-
ing-pen into the pelt which has been pressed
into a scooped-out hole in the ground, thus
forming a basin ; if the blood is saved when
the ration sheep is killed, and added to the
poison, so much the better.
Two days before marking each mob should
be mustered and the ewes jetted as before;
this has the effect of checking the flie.s that
are working in the mob —indeed, most of
them will be found poisoned in the yards,
and the ewes will be comparatively clean
from trouble when the lambs are marked.
And this is more than half the battle.
“Beady”; Spring lambs suffer from flies
in the marking; many farmers avoid late
lambs for this reason. I have overcome the
trouble by marking in the late evening, yard-
ing next morning and tying linen bags to
tail stumps. It was 90 per cent, effective;
the balance were pulled off by the lambs
and had to be replaced. To make these bags,
tear linen into strips five inches wide, double
the width and machine the length, cross-
sew every three inches, cut off and stitch
on tying tapes. When attaching bags to
tails, tie fairly firm. If too tight, the lamb
will pull it off; he will do so anyway if it
is left on for two weeks.
OTJR WOOL AND JAPANESE BUYERS.
“R. E. Combing” : Australian woolgrowers
should not be alarmed nor yet too complacent
over the threat of Japanese to send their
buyers to S’Africa. In 1916-20, when we
sold en bloc to the British Government, the
Japs went over to our rivals for the supplies
they could not get here. But they quickly
re-appeared when our markets were open
again. In fact, they returned with shouts
of joy. Notwithstanding our folly in the
matter of providing stud sheep, the S’African
clip has not attained to the all-round useful-
ness of Australian wools. It is more
suited to Continental machinery, whereas
most of the Japanese mill plant has been
bought in England. But, of course, the
S’African clip may further improve, or re-
placements in Japanese machinery may bo
made from other sources. The S’Africans
have also improved their marketing. When
the Japs came back to us in 1920 it was
with delight that they were again able to buy
under a regular auction system. Their buying
experiences in S’Africa had not been alto-
gether fortunate. And though our com-
petitor's selling methods have improved, they
are still far behind ours.
But watchfulness is necessary. And one
of the greatest irritants would be to tamper
with the open selling of our wool clip. Those
who advocate price fixing and pool selling
do not realise the dangers. Such methods were
all right as an emergency war measure, when
we had one big, safe customer for the whole
of our immediate wool production, but
under peace-time conditions it would be a
folly unthinkable to try to divert the flow
of trade from the natural channel it has
grooved out for itself. Our wool-selling system
may have faults, big faults even; but to
substitute pooling, iirice fixation, or control
by outside administration would be to offer
an irritant far more dangerous than any
tariff proposals.
CATTLE FOR W.A. WHEAT FARMS.
“Wcscocky”: Wheatgrowers in Westralia
have been forced to realise that grain alone
won’t keep the creditor away. Experience
of wheat-belt conditions suggests that the
Red Poll and the Jersey are the most suit-
able breeds of cattle. Make your choice—
if the bank will let you—and concentrate on
building a perfect herd. Never use a sire of
uncertain pedigree. Herd deterioration will
result; no matter how good his appearance,
your heifer calves are bound to be less pro-
lific than their dams.
When erecting the milking-shed be sure
your cowyard is roomy and has no square
corners; this will save milder cows from
the pugnacious. The milking-shed is best
erected of iron and should open towards the
south to keep out the worst weather. Raise
your floor well above ground level, using
packed stone; see that it slopes towards
the rear and give it a concrete surface. A
mixture of cement, clean sand and gravel
makes an excellent concrete. Have a cement
drain at the rear of the bails to carry
away all liquid waste. A strong yard-
broom and a shovel are necessary adjuncts
to the milking-sheds ; walls should be white-
washed, and bails sluiced out at least every
two days.
The dairy-shed should be built of stone,
though iron will do. A sloping concrete floor
is a necessity, and it is a good plan to build
a trellis over the dairy and grow some
creeper that will make it cool in summer.
TASMANIAN BARLEY.
“Specker”: The enterprise of Tas. barley-
growers is applauded in the English “Jour-
nal of Agriculture.” Dissatisfied with local
prices, an organisation was formed only two
years ago to develop a marketing policy ; six
growers and two business men were
appointed directors, and staff expenses were
cut to a minimum. Seed of the approved
malting varieties, Plumage Archer and
Spratt Archer, was imported from Britain
and distributed among the members on con-
dition that they soM only through the co.
Grading presented difficulties, but these were
successfully overcome. There are six grades
of malting barley and one for feed barley;
it was found necessary to test every sack
of every consignment in the stores of the
co. first, and it was finally graded by an
officer appointed by the Tas. Government.
The “Journal” remarks that “the results
of the past season’s operations have been a
revelation as to what can be done in a very
short time to raise the quality of this pro-
duct. In spite of the fall in world’s prices
Tas. growers have received as high a price
this season as last, mainly on account of
the improved quality.”
A thousand tons of malting barley were
exported last season, and brewers report that
the Tas. product is very similar to the
renowned British-grown. Although much
credit is due to sound organisation and care-
ful grading, these satisfactory results were
only possible through the importation of
approved varieties of seed.
NICOTINE FROM WASTE TOBACCO.
“Nick O’Teen”: Tobacco culture may be
divided into three main parts or operations:
raising the seed in the nursery beds, growing
the seedlings to maturity and flue-curing the
harvested leaves. Expert market-gardeners
appeal as the most likely growers, but many
tyros have gone into the business this last
year or so. One highly probable result of
the boom will be the production of too
much black or unsaleable leaf. This can
be converted into nicotine for use in the
preparation of insecticidal sprays and
powders; of course, the growers will get no
3s. a pound, or anything like it.
There is a steady and constant demand for
nicotine as an insecticide, and the time is
ripe for organising this side of the industry.
The heavier and darker the leaf the greater
the nicotine content, which can be
increased by manuring with water-soluble
nitrogen, particularly if the hours of sun-
light hold consistently. The nicotine is
got by repeatedly extracting the waste,
which has previously been roughly ground,
with soft water and either distilling the
extract with lime and condensing the
nicotine liberated or acidifying and evaporat-
ing to small bulk. In some of our tobacco
settlements-it might be advisable to prepare
to extract low-grade and damaged leaf, top-
pings and other waste on the field rather
than concentrate on the growth and curing
of more and still more leaf. The system
would be to collect damaged plants, leaves
and tops daily, and after air-drying to
cast them into the extracting tank. A
series of tanks would permit the partially
extracted material to meet the fresh water
coming into the system, whilst th'e extract
would be run into the tank containing fresh
waste from the field. Finally, after acidify-
ing and, evaporation, the extract might be
sold to the wholesale distributor on the nico-
tine percentage. Assuming; stem and top lito
contain one per cent, nicotine when dry, and
leaf to contain six per cent., the crude
extract could be made to show twenty per
cent, without much difficulty.
THRIPS AND OTHER PESTS.
“Disc Harrow” : Although it is six years
since the last serious invasion, little pro-
gress has been made in direct methods of
combating thrips (B. 14/10/’3l). Against
this pest, as well as others, the grower's
chief protection lies in his indirect methods
adopted throughout the year.
An always-clean orchard is the ideal state.
The lurking-places of pests must be rigor-
ously hunted out and destroyed, aud traps
and lures should be employed far more than
they are at present. In the case of thrips.
it helps if the ploughing is done before weeds
come to maturity. In Vic. orchards especi-
ally, capeweed is a favorite harbor. It
should be turned in before flowering. '
iCodlin-moth, which appears to be becom-
ing more or less immune to arsenical sprays,
may be attacked by the use of lures of fruit-
juice placed in tins about the orchard
or. suspended from branches. The fruit-
juice with arsenic spray for fruit-fly, already
recommended in The Bulletin, is also effi-
cacious.
It goes without saying that all infected
fruit must be collected and destroyed, and
all cases, tree supports and other possible,
means of carrying over the pest thoroughly
searched. When preparing old cases for
picking into, have a thin knife handy and
you’ll be able to finish any grubs hidden in
joints and corners. Finally, it is false
economy to plough in primings, as several
men I know are doing this spring. It is false
economy saving a man’s wages for a few
days when it means a mass of wood rotting
under every tree and ready to be brought to
the surface at the next ploughing.
THE LEOPARD-TREE.
“Wandi”: An attractive tree that might
be usefully propagated wherever it will
grow is the leopard-tree, so called from its
strikingly spotted appearance, caused by the
shedding of the bark in patches. It was
once plentiful on the western (N.S.W.)
plains, but was ruthlessly cut down by
drovers and pastoralists, and no effort was
made to ensure a future supply of the valu-
able fodder. The same applies to many other
trees and shrubs that carried stock through
past droughts. Besides their value as feed
and shade, they are a necessary protection
where friable soils are swept by strong winds,
and by rushing waters in flood-time.
The leopard-tree is easily grown from
seed. It carries a profusion of long leaves
which are relished by sheep and cattle, and
are eagerly eaten wherever they can be
reached, even when there is plenty of grass
about. The animals eat the tender twigs
as well as the leaves, and thrive on them.
The timber, which is tough and flexible, is
used for shafts of light vehicles, staves and
tool handles. A young leopard stick was a
favorite whip-handle of bullockies, and they
would ride miles to 1 get one.
The leopard-tree, in its early growth, is
protected by a natural hedge, but for which
protection it would be eaten down when
young by cattle, sheep and kangaroos. It
starts as a straggly bush, from the centre
of which the beautifully-marked stem, with
its willowy branches and long narrow leaves,
shoots up. The leaves and terminals of the
peripheral branches arc eaten off, and stiff,
spiky stems develop, standing out and form-
ing an effective guard. When the main stem
is a few feet high the entanglement at the
base dies away. This natural provision
makes the tree all the easier to grow in
stocked paddocks, provided it is allowed a
little time at the start lo .surround itself
sufficiently with the protection shoots; and
for a period the shoots or suckers supply a
considerable quantity of good fattening
fodder.
FARM GATES.
“Mulyan” : The best farm gates arc made
with Gin. by lin. boards, fitted into mortise-
holes in square headpieces; but these are
generally beyond the capacity of the aver-
age amateur, and if not neatly and firmly
fitted together will soon be wrecks. There
are, however, gates which anybody can con-
struct, and which look well enough and last.
The handiest is made wholly with 3in. by lin.
battens. Take two for the headpiece and two
for the backpiecc, and bolt the ends of the
half-dozen crosspieces between each pair.
Then bolt on a stay from the bottom of the
backpiece to the. top of the headpiece. Never
use nails in. a gate except, to fasten vertical
battens or palisading; where bolts are not
necessary, use wooden dowels.
The stay is often put on upside down, in
which case it is no stay at all. Its purpose
is to keep the head from dropping down and
dragging on the ground. If it is put on from
the bottom of the headpiece to the top of the
backpiece, it can’t prop it up. and the gate
must sag. On a batten gate the stay is par-
ticularly important, but there is no difficulty
that calls for skilled hands in fitting it in
position. The gate is light, strong and neat.
Another simple structure is made with
round timber. Take a piece about Sin. in
diameter for the head, cut a leyel face down
the inside with adze or tomahawk, and bore
half a dozen holes with a loin, auger. Treat
the backpiece in the same way; this should
be 41in. or Sin. in diameter, and the holes
are all the better if bored with a 2in. auger.
For rails or crosspieces take straight sap-
lings, about 2in. thick at the small end, and
pare down the ends with tomahawk and rasp
(Continued on Page 26.)


Here s a hard-working
DIESEL
The Bore is 830 feet deep and lined with Bin. casing.
A strong supply of water is available, and bore-hole
pump gear and bore pump are installed, driven by a
5-h.p. LISTER Diesel Crude Oil Engine.
This installation delivers approximately 6000 gallons an
hour, or 60,000 gallons for a ten-hour run, at a fuel cost
of 1 /9, whereas the cost of pumping this quantity by an
electric motor under similar conditions was stated by Mr.
Collins as 13/4.
The pumping by LISTER Diesel Crude Oil Engine
shows a saving of 1/- an hour, or viewed in another way,
the electric motor pumps 60,000 gallons for 13/4; but
for the same cost the LISTER Diesel Crude Oil Engine
would pump nearly half a million gallons, costing 1 d. for
every 3000 gallons pumped.
[isTeß
IB
m
f: ■
■>
9b3
11
' ■ ■
'.'cLdl
~, US
I
Bore on the property of E. J. Collins and Sons, Lockleys, S.A.
Similar matchless economy, combined with the world-famous
reliability that stands behind* the LISTER name will be yours
when you instal a LISTER Diesel Crude Oil Engine.
COLD-STARTING
ON
CRUDE OIL
HSlliijg
affisi
DIESEL
Full Particulars will be supplied on request by State Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Malloch House, Young Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD
West Footscray.
Showroom: 596 Bourke Street.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Mile End.
WEST AUSTRALIA
MALLOCH BROS.,
50-54 William Street,
Perth.
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAY BEST OS
“Silver Edge”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
d
I
- - A
•
l
l.v ,v
/ HI I w ,1;'-'
wr 1
sdkffe IU
da
W^'m
v
mt|H>
11, iii
Jctf*
ft# 1
BY I X.L
ACETYLENE
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY!
Complete Lighting Installations through-
out the Home. Economical to Install
and Maintain. The hottest gas-flame
known for Cooking and Heating.
To Messrs. H. Jones & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 639 “D.” HOBART.
Please send me free booklet “ Modern
Acetylene Lighting and Heating.”
Name
Address-..
I
I
H
mm
ÜBLE
»
Of all
dealers
BLADES
For Gillette Razors .
DOUBLE EDGED
British Made
FIVE
for
Yb
WONDERING WHAT BLADES
TO BUY ? if you use a two-edge
safety razor —Seven O’clock is the
blade for it. Seven O’clock the
blade with an edge as keen as steel;
can be made to be. Gives more
shaves and better shaves than many
blades that cost more.


h*
Ui r-
AB
a
CO
The only shoe built on
this last
Designed by Abbey in a special shape
that allows fullest freedom to every
muscle of the foot. It curves over
the instep arch so that there’s not the
least strain when laced. And each
full or half-size is made in four fit-
tings. The upper is of glossy black
velour calf. . . .the sole, of the
toughest, most flexible leather obtain-
able
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 252
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
WHEAT
MEAT
BUTTER
WOOL
TIMBER.
GOLD
AND NOW
EGG EXPORT
Recently the biggest single shipment of eggs to
leave Western Australia was exported to Eng-
land and totalled over 3000 cases worth approxi-
mately £6OOO. The egg export industry of
this State has been steadily growing, and now
amounts to approximately 11,000 cases of 30
dozen each, in the season, worth in the vicinity
of £45,000.
The egg industry, which has attained to
enormous proportions in America and else-
where, promises to develop greatly in W.A..
more particularly as this State’s early flush
period strikes the London market at the most
profitable season of the year.
WE ARE KEPT BUSY EXPORTING OUR
PRODUCTS.
W.A. IS A VALUABLE MARKET FOR EVERY
WISE ADVERTISER—REACH IT THROUGH
THE PERTH
ntttag, ©ttu#
ANOTHER GREAT WESTRALIAN PRODUCT.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
\s\v
y
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ~
Reserve Liability
f
.. •• .. .. £7,500,000
•• •• •• .. 6,150,000
.. .. .. .. 7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35,
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI”. ~ . 12th November and 7th January
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 10th December and 4th February
EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu, Rarotonga and Tahiti.
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
to fit firmly in the holes. Dowel each end
of the top and bottom bars —the others will
not require fastening—and bolt a stay on
in the usual way. If this gate is made of
irenbark or box, it will last for years.
To hang it, bore and chisel out a hole-
about 3in. in diameter in one end of a block
of wood for the bottom hinge, and shoulder
the bottom end of the gate to fit loosely in it.
For the top hinge, cut a hole for the gate
piece in a bit of hardwood board and nail it
to the top of the post.
Another round-timber gate is made with
only two or three bars, fencing wire being
strained in the spaces between. The back-
piece is three or four feet longer than tne
head, the top half of it having a good bend
forward. A double wire from the top of it
to the top of the gate head, twisted tightly,
takes the place of a stay. This gate has to
be hung with a hook and eye hinge.
TO PREVENT SWARMING.
“Larrapinta” : If you allow a big apiary
to get a swarming fit you soon find your-
self in an awful mess. Perhaps a dozen
swarms emerge at the same time, mix up in
the air and settle in one huge plaster of
bees, in which valuable queens are killed; you
end up with fewer colonies than you started
with, with your bees all demoralised and
a big loss of honey. So at the first signs
of a fit of swarming sort over the spare
combs. Pick out the oldest and worst of
them, melt them down, and send the wax
away to be rolled into foundation. Have
an eye on the stronger colonies; as soon
as they start to raise queen cells you must
keep the hive clear of honey by frequently
running the combs in it through the ex-
tractor. Take away any combs which they
fill with pollen, and put them into the
super of a colony too weak to swarm. At
the same time keep putting the sheets of
foundation into the brood nest of the strong
colony as fast as the bees will draw 7 it out
into comb; the queen will lay in it.
If this does not check the tendency to
swarm, raise the hive cover by means of
a chip of wood at each corner. It gives
the colony a big space to guard, and they
are usually loath to throw off a swarm then.
If even this fails, it can be taken for granted
that the queen is an old one. If you con-
sider her too good to kill, the only thing
to do is to put her into a nucleus hive with
a frame of hatching brood and some workers.
Cart this little colony to a spot several
miles away, leave it there for a few days,
and then bring it back to the apiary again
and let the queen w 7 ork it up to a strong
one. At the same time give the big colony
either a virgin queen or a ripe queen cell ;
by the time the new 7 queen has mated and
is laying they will have lost all desire to
throw off a swarm.
Of course, you can quickly stop all ten-
dency to swarm by weakening dow 7 n the
strong colonies, and giving the sealed brood
taken from them to w r eak ones in order
to help the latter along. This is a poor
w T ay of doing the job, as it entails loss of
honey. The methods I suggest mean extra
work, but enable you to take honey; and
in increased returns per hive lies the only
remedy for poor prices and costs which
cannot be reduced.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Recipe for a cattle lick containing
phosphonis and lime? (2) How to cure
coirs of the habit of manuring when in the
bails to be milked? —G24G.
(1) Take equal parts of sterilised bone-
meal and common salt and mix w 7 ith a little
molasses. The bone-meal contains both cal-
cium and phosphorus. (2) Rough handling
usually causes this habit. The eow 7 s should
be handled as gently as possible.
Is Western rosewood' (Hcterodendron
ol ear folium) harmful to stock feeding on it?
—6lll.
It is sometimes eaten by stock with im-
punity, but is at other times strongly
poisonous. The young shoots are most
harmful.
Now to grow willows? —624B.
Willow’s strike easily from cuttings placed
in ground that never becomes dry. Cuttings
sjiould be taken after all leaves have fallen
from the tree.
(1) Is Japanese millet good fodder? (2)
Is it at any time poisonous to cither sheep
or big stock? (3) Gould the seed be broad-
cast in loose loamy black soil without plough-
ing or harrowing, trusting to sheep to kick
dust over it? (4) Is it suitable for my dis-
trict ( s.-w. Q. ), hot and dry in summer
with frosts in winter, or is thei'e any suit-
able crop to replace grasses that have been
eaten 0ut? —6243.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) To obtain satis-
factory results it has to be raised in good
land and to receive thorough cultivation.
Satisfactory results are not likely to accrue
by sowing the seed amongst the natural
grasses. It invariably gives indifferent re-
sults when sown as a first crop on new land.
(4) Don’t know of any introduced crop or
grass that could be economically grown under
the conditions outlined. It seems to be a
matter of resowing the grasses that have
been eaten out.
(1) What value is tincture of iodine as
a medicine for a dog? (2) What is the
correct dose? (3) How often should it
be given? (4) How long should the treat-
ment be continued? —632B.
(1) It is used in certain cases of skin
disease, such as eczema, in enlargement of
glands and in the nervous form of dis-
temper. For internal use iodide of potas-
sium is preferable. (2) and (3) The dose
of iodide of potassium varies from 5 to
20 grains, according to the size of the dog.
It may be given in tabloid form twice daily.
(4) The drug should only be given for a few
days, as symptoms of iodism may appear.
These consist of loss of appetite, scurfy
skin, watery discharge from eyes and nos-
trils. As soon as these symptoms appear
cease giving the drug for about a week.
How to tan marsupial skins with fur on?
—6017.
Use 31b. wattle bark and make four suc-
cessive solutions, each in lgal. of water. The
strongest tan liquor will be obtained from
the lirst lot of water put on the bark.
Weaker liquors will be successively obtained ;
start tanning in weakest and finish in strong-
est. Test the tannin penetration by cutting
into the skin. Tanning is complete when the
tannin has penetrated right through. After
the skins are tanned they are washed in
water and covered on the flesh side with a
coat of fish or neatsfoot oil. Scrape off all
flesh before tanning.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kripple”: Don't paint the shearing
machine or other shafting to prevent rust.
When a wheel or other part has to be
removed for adjustment or repairs hours
may be lost in scraping. Mix a preparation
of white lead and unsalted fat to thick-
treacle consistency and apply that or some
form of crude petroleum jelly. Either can
be wiped off in a few minutes with a kero-
sene-soaked rag.
“C.R.”: Sore backs in horses may be cured
by the use of the oil in which sardines are
preserved, using it as a dressing in the ordi-
nary way. Some think that it keeps flies
away too. It is useful for any other ulcers
or abrasions and fistulas, though results
there are not so well authenticated.
“Dimon”: Never throw away broken
boring bits. Small ones make good punches,
bradalls and shoemaker’s awls; the auger-
bits, from Jin. to fin., first-rate screwdrivers,
particularly with a brace. Cut them off
just above the twist and grind the point
down to the required blade.
“Karaway”: Young pigweed, fathen and
redweed, which are among the commonest
weeds on N. S. Wales farms, make good
spinach when vegetables are scarce. Some
people prefer “Warrigal spinach” to any
cultivated greens, and all are good feed for
Grunter. An armful should be thrown in
the sty every day when the common ration
is grain or pumpkin.
“Cockyson”: When lopping trees for
stock (B. 7/10/’3l), beware of the recoil;
the larger the branch the more dangerous it
may be. Only the small leaf-bearing branches
should be “dropped.” Apropos, the broad-
leaf wattle is an excellent fodder tree.
Sheep and cattle eat the leaves readily, but
cattle appear to enjoy the leaves better
“toasted” —scorched by a brisk fire.
“Bilbo” : Wooden drains, recommended by
“Mulgo” (B. 23/9/’3l), are wholly unsuit-
able for soapy or slop water, even when sieves
are used in the sink. They smell. The
healthiest drain is the one exposed to a
maximum of sunlight—water will not lie
in a drain of this type, it is easily swept
out and particles of food are picked up by
birds. If the land at the end of the drain
is ploughed there will be no odor and no
unsightly mess.
“.Tolinno”; Shallow planting of bananas,
besides the harmful results mentioned by
“Azac” (B. 7/10/’3l), shortens the profit-
able life of a plantation. However, care
should be taken not to plant too deeply,
especially in the case of heavy soils, as over-
deep planting causes the trees to form a
false bulb, bringing the roots perilously close
to the surface.
“Disc Harrow”: Ploughing out the strips
close to the trees left by the multiple-furrow
plough every spring is one of the hardest
jobs in the orchard. It helps if every morn-
ing you take the first easy round off several
rows first; it quietens the nag and gets
Jiim into the way of things. To plough
right up to the trees with a lively horse first
thing in the morning is inviting trouble.
“Garrick. A. B.”: To prolong the useful
life of tool and implements is one w 7 ay of
cutting down costs of production. I have
seen sets of harness which are in splendid
order after 20 years because they have been
w 7 ell oiled with melted mutton-fat, applied
lukewuarm, twice a year. The same treat-
ment will make hayforks, shovels, axes and
slashers almost everlasting, except for
breakages. As for the old dray and waggon
and the woodwork of binder, harvester and
drill, crude coal tar, costing a bob a gallon
f.0.r., will stop the ravages of w 7 eather and
white ants. Apply fairly warm with a
paint-brush.
“Bushman”; You can’t beat the guinea-
fowl for letting you know- when anything
strange is about and for keeping insect pests
down. Given free range they feed them-
selves. Set the eggs under a fowl and let
her rear them. The birds fetch ss. to 15s. a
pair on the market.
“Yarri”: Instead of making sop for the
fowls with the stale bread, give it to the
plough horses. It is strengthening, fatten-
ing and improves the coat. If the crusts
are hard, put them through the corn-cracker
and mix with chaff or other food.
Something new in fruit transport was
seen in London recently when a consignment
of mangoes grown in Egypt reached Covent
Garden market by air within GO hours of
leaving Alexandria. The experiment is to
be followed up, not only with mangoes, but
with other tropical fruit. There are possi-
bilities here for Australian growers of un-
usual fruits in the near future. As far as
mangoes are concerned, Queensland probably
leads the world for attractive varieties. For
years at Townsville and other North Queens-
land centres the science of mango-culture has
been closely studied, and many new varieties
unknown elsewhere have been evolved.
“Go Do”: Wheat and oats are not related,
and are not attacked by the same diseases,
a point which makes both suitable in a
rotation. Turnips and cauliflowers belong
to the same family and are attacked by the
same diseases and pests. These two crops
running in any rotation will only tend to
carry over and increase the troubles. “Alf
Alpha” (B. 14/10/’3l) considers old cauli-
flower leaves very good fodder. No respect-
able dairyman or poultry-farmer over our
way will look at them. And let me tell
“A.A.” there have been several cases in the
Sydney markets this year where cauliflowers
and cabbages were condemned owing to spray
on the leaves. For the rest, aphis is readily
killed and is no great matter, whereas the
cabbage and cauliflower moth is next in im-
portance to the sheep blowfly. I have seen
thousands of aci-es of swedes and no crop
absolutely free of the cabbage grub.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject, ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mining chemist and engineer, exp. in running and
construction of pilot plants, wants position on gold-
mine or cyanide plant anywhere. —6316.
Young married man, Sydney, knowledge advertising
layout, wants work on country daily or weekly.
—6321.
Young man, Sydney, wants light laboring work,
full or part time. —6391.
Motor mechanic (36), N.S.W., English exp. and
used to Ford cars and tractors, seeks position with
progressive firm. —6329.
Journalist, Sydney, would like to hear from an-
other journalist willing to collaborate in writing
literary textbook. —6392.
Typist, Sydney, wants work at home. —6363.
Australian, ex-A.1.F., leaving shortly for China,
wants to get into touch with manufacturers and
exporters.—6s2s.
Youth (21), three years’ pupil-teacher in Vic.,
wants position as book-keeper or storekeeper, N.S.W.
or Q’land station. —6406.
Engineer, second-class 8.0. T. cert., ex A.1.F.,
wants position ship or shore. Refs. —6408.
To buy “Sex and Character,” by Weininger.—64l3.
To buy books by Havelock Ellis. —6399.
To buy “The Rise and Fall of Susan Lennox.”
-6393.
To buy back numbers of “Dramatic Arts Monthly.”
—6343.
To buy Magner’s “Standard Horse and Stock Book.”
—6313.
To buy correspondence course or books on short-
story writing or journalism.—63oB.
To buy books on showcard- and ticket-writing.—
6307.
To buy correspondence courses on pattern drafting
and designing for dressmaking and tailoring.—63o6.
To buy back numbers “Close Up,” cheap.—6322.
To exchange Australian wild-birds’ eggs with
other collectors.—63s3.
To exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism”
for height-increasing or physical-culture course.—
6347.
Words of John Oxenham’s “A Te Deum of the
Commonplace,” also his book “Bees in Amber”;
and words of Mcßae’s “In Flanders Fields.” —6336.
AVords of sea chanty “The Maid of Amsterdam.”
—6371.
To hear from persons who have printed references
to the works of Price Warung or any biographical
notes concerning him. —6395.
AVhereabouts of Thomas Edwin Willey, last heard
of in Tasmania. Brother in London inquires.—63BB.
Information Sought.
(1) When were the first Commonwealth
stamps issued? (2) Particulars of design
and valuest (3) Designer’s name? (4)
Were the recent Kingsford Umith stamps
punctured OS for official use? (5) Name of
hook on Australian stamps? —(s42o.
(1) January 2, 1913. (2) Design similar
to the present 6d., 9d. and Is. values. All
values from Id. to £2 inclusive. (3)
Blamire Young. (4) So far as we know
these stamps were not punctured, but a
small number of the 2d. and 3d. were over-
printed OS in black with double-lined capi-
tals. (5) “Stamps of the Commonwealth
of Australia,” by A. A. Rosenblum, Box
1657 N, Melbourne, Cl.
Best time to put in and how to handle
rose cuttings? Best wood to use and when
to plant from the nursery to open beds?
6389
April to July. Heavy soil, well drained,
is best, adding a little sand about the base
of the cuttings. Use ripened wood, about
six inches in length, and set at an angle of
45 degrees. Keep the cuttings moist, and
those which have struck can be set out in
June of the following year.
What paints are suitable for painting in
body color? —6394.
Ordinary water-colors mixed with Chinese
white. Where only a little body color is
required in water-color painting, it is best
to paint out the part required with the
Chinese white, allow it to dry and then
wash the required color lightly over this.
An excellent body color can be made from
pastels ground and mixed with size, and
powdered colors similarly mixed are useful
for poster work.
I propose to take up clay modelling at
home. What materials will I need? —6s3s.
A turntable, about 3ft. 6in. high,
4cwt. of clay and two wmoden boards about
18in. square, clamped at the back with two
battens screwed on crosswise. Small wood
and wire tools used in modelling are obtain-
able at any color store. You also require
large iron callipers, a small sponge to keep
the hands clean while modelling, and some
old linen or rag to cover the work with and
keep it moist. A quantity of plaster of
Paris is needed for casting and making
moulds.
Name of a botanical encyclopwdia contain-
ing a comprehensive classification of plants?
—6317.
The nearest to what you require is John-
son’s “Gardeners’ Dictionary,” revised by
Fraser and Ilemsley, 1917, published by
Routledge.
How can one qualify for a position on a
ship as a wireless operator and what is the
salary? Is this calling overcrowded, and,
if so, are the other branches of this pro-
fession in the same state? —6309.
A certificate of proficiency can be obtained
at the Marconi School of Wireless* 97
Clarence-street, Sydney. The duration of
the marine operators’ course is approxi-
mately 18 months, the first 12 or 14 being
by correspondence. The student then sits
for his Government certificate, after which,
if he is sucessful, lie is entitled to go to
sea as a junior operator. At present there
are few vacancies at sea or ashore in any
branch of wifeless. The salary of junior
operators under 21 ranges from £7 6s. 3d.
to £lO 18s. 3d. per month. Senior marine
operators receive up to £22 3s. 3d. a month.
(1) Number of persons engaged in ship-
building in Australia for year ending June
30, 1931? (2) Value of ships built in Aus-
tralia during the same period? —6lol.
Details for 1930-31 are not yet avail-
able ; for 1929-30, 4990 persons, value of
output being £2,175,128, and of production
£1,468,271.
Could a living be made by gathering sea
shells on Sydney beaches, and, after crush-
ing them, selling them to poultry-keepers for
shell-grit? (2) Must any permission or
license be obtained before taking the shells?
-6104.
(1) Very unlikely. Shell-grit is plentiful
on many of our sea beaches, and the trade
is supplied in bulk for retail distribution.
(2) It would be necessary to have a mining
title, by which tenure many of the most suit-
able accumulations of grit are already held.
Which has the right of way in Australia,
a vehicle coming from the right or one com-
ing on the left of a motorist? —6280.
A N.S.W. traffic regulation expresses the
universal Australian rule thus: “When two
motor vehicles are approaching each other at
an intersection, so that if both continued
the vehicles would arrive at the same point
together and collide, the driver of the vehicle
which has the other vehicle on his right-
hand side shall slow up and allow such other
vehicle to pass in front of his vehicle.”
(1) Are there many flowers with black
petals? (2) Had any completely black
flower ever been discovered? —6144.
(1) There are no flowers with petals that
are definitely black. Most of the so-called
black flowers are really dark violet. Examples
are black-flowered gonolobus and cyanchum,
Black Prince rose and some pansies. (2)
No.
(1) What causes meningitis? (2) What
are its chief symptoms? (3) What is the
course of treatment usually adopted? —6lo2.
(1) Very many causes. It may be a dis-
ease in itself or a complication of another.
(2) Generally speaking the onset is rather
gradual. There is first apathy, with head-
aches, restlessness and occasional vomiting.
Next the condition may go on to stupor or
•delirium. Vomiting occurs frequently. In a
typical case the child lies on its side in a
cramped position, resisting any interference.
Expression becomes vacant with wide-open
eyes. Stiffness of the neck occurs. Abdo-
men is retracted. A short, sharp cry is
heard from time to time. Convulsions are
common. (3j Depends on the variety.
Generally lumbar puncture, soothing drugs,
vaccines.
In a game of cribbage, B leads with a
fowp, T follows with an eight, and B’s
second card is a five. T then plays a six,
and claims a run of three, which B disputes.
B then plays a seven, and claims a run of
five, and insists on pegging them. Was B
right in disputing T’s claim for a run, and
in taking five holes for a run after playing
the seven? —6368.
Yes. The run of three claimed by T
was broken by his own eight.
I have a battery-operated dynamic speaker
(6 -volt type) which I wish to convert into
a mains-operated model. (1) What parts
will I require? (2) Where obtainable? (3)
Cost? (4) What alternations will be neces-
sary to the speaker? (5) Are there any
other means of exciting the field coil of a
dynamic speaker? —64o3.
(1) and (2) A 240/6 volt transformer and
a metal rectifier, both of which are pro-
curable from any of the big wireless firms.
When ordering state make and type of
your speaker. (3) About £2 ss. (4) No
alternations are necessary. Ask for a
diagram of connections when ordering the
rectifier. (5) Certain types are excited by
passing the receiver plate current through
their field coils, which then serve the dual
purpose of creating the speaker field and of
assisting to smooth the rectified A.C.
I have a number of cartridge-type resistors,
varying between 10,000 and 50,000 ohms,
whose values have worn off. How can I
ascertain their approximate resistances? —
6415.
Connect a 40-volt H’.T. battery (in series
with a 0-5 milliammeter) across each resist-
ance and take a reading of the current. To
obtain the value divide the battery voltage
by the current in milliamperesi and multiply
by 1000. In cases where the milliammeter
shows a reading of under one milliampere,
use a 60-volt battery. As an example, the
current indicated by the meter is 2 milli-
amperes with a battery voltage of 40. The
value of the. resistance will therefore be 40
divided by 2 and multiplied by 1000 or
20,000 ohms. Before making any measure-
ments check the battery voltage with a
voltmeter and start off with a low value of
battery voltage, increasing gradually in
order to avoid damaging the meter.
(11 What paper is suitable for pastel
drawing? (2) Any method of fixing? (3)
Are they ever mixed with water-colors? —
6411.
(1) There is a special pastel paper, with
a fine sandpaper-like surface, but any un-
glazed paper or heavy brown paper or
sugar paper may be used. (2) There is no
entirely satisfactory way of fixing. The
best available method is to mount the draw-
ing on heavy strawboard before working.
Prepare the paper by dissolving gelatine
into a mixture of about half the consistency
necessary to make ordinary jelly. Heat
the paper and wash over with the hot gela-
tine preparation, using an ordinary large
wash-brush to apply. Allow this to dry for
48 hours, preferably in the sun. Apply the
pastels to this board and when the picture
is finished steam the paper over a kettle.
The result will stand anything except severe
rubbing, but all pastels should be placed
under glass immediately. A good way is to
fix the glass to them with passe-partout
binding immediately they are finished before
sending to the framer. (3) It is against al.
art canons to mix the two mediums.
How can I make a wall composed of dry-
pressed concrete bricks damp-prooft 00-o.
Best method is the Sylvester process,
which consists of painting the surface with
a solution of lib. soap to sgals. water,
allowing this coat to dry, and then painting
again with a solution composed of lib. of
alum per gallon of water. This procedure
should be repeated three times, allowing each
coat to dry thoroughly before the next one is
applied.
The use of sea-sand in mixing concrete
is said to cause the finished job to sweat in
humid weather. Is this so? —6230.
This takes place only when the sand is
used for plastering the interior of a wall
of a not very well ventilated apartment. It
can be avoided by washing the sand before
mixing to remove salt.
How to rid a house of fleas? —6261.
If electricity is available, a vacuum-
cleaner will collect a great number. If not,
walking about the rooms with sticky _ fly-
papers wrapped round the legs, gaiter-
fasliion, soon disposes of large numbers of
adu]ts. While wearing these move the fur-
niture and spray along and under the edges
of the floor covering, along the skirting-
boards and all cracks in the floors, with
petrol. Do the spraying in the forenoon
with the doors and windows shut. Open
doors and windows after two hours. Re-
move floor-coverings and beat carpets and
rugs thoroughly, after which they should
be sunned. The only certain way to get rid
of fleas quickly is by fumigating with for-
malin vapor, carbon bisulphide or HCN gas.
Spraying under the house with a 10-20 p.c.
solution of lysol or a strong carbolic disin-
fectant also does a lot of good. Wash the
building out with this also. Note that petrol,
carbon bisulphide and lICN gas are highly
inflammable.
(1) Gan cyclamen be reared outside a hot-
house? (2) When to sow seed, and after-
treatment? (3) What is the life of the
plants? —64o7.
(1) To get best results a hot-house is
needed, but the plants can be raised in a
conservatory or protected green-house. (2)
Sow seed in March and put the seedlings in
Sin. pots in the following January. (3)
Regularly watered the plants should last for
three flowering seasons.
If a wire l-16m. in diameter carries a cer-
tain current in safety, will a wire fin. in
diameter carry twice the current? —6278.
The current-carrying capacity of a con-
ductor varies with its cross-section area and
not with the diameter. A conductor having
twice the diameter of another conductor will
have four times < the cross-section area and
will carry four times the current.
Was the Rousseau who wrote the “Con-
trat Modal” also a painter? —64oo.
No. There were three notable Rousseaus,
not related. Henri Rousseau was a deco-
rative modernist; Theodore Rousseau, an
idealistic landscape painter. Jean Jacques
Rousseau, writer and philosopher, had no
gifts as a painter.
How should gladioli plants be treated
after they have flowered? —6330.
Lift tlie bulbs about four weeks after the
flowering spikes have withered, and hang
them to dry in an airy room. When the
moisture has evaporated, store them in a
box in a dry atmosphere. Do not stack
them on top of each other.
What is the story of Will Long staff’s
picture '‘Alenin Gate at Midnight ,” and what
did the artist intend to convey? —6l23.
It is based on an incident at the unveil-
ing of the memorial by Field-Marshal Plumer.
As the relatives of the fallen filed past him,
Plumer said to each, “He is not missing.
He is here!”
How are lantern-slides as used for adver-
tising prepared? —62S3.
The design is photographed on a quarter-
plate and printed on a glass lantern slide,
the face of which is protected with a cover
glass. Bind the two edges together with
lantern strips. If colored effects are wanted,
the slides are tinted with water-color before
the cover glasses are bound on. Any photo-
graphic dealer can supply materials.
How to cut stencils for brandings bags? —
6350.
Commercially they are made with dies.
An alternative method is to lay a galvanised
sheet over a hardwood" block, the letters being
traced or drawn, and cut out with cold
chisels and a hammer. Very small chisels
are required for getting round curves. The
job can be made neater by filing.
In laying an ant-bed tennis court, what
should be the thickness of ant-bed when set:
best way of laying it, and quantity of ant-bed
required ? —6291.
Mark out the court, and allow an outer
margin as a guard against crumbling at the
edges, wear and tear. Cut straight lines
round the edges, and excavate the court to
a depth dependent on the amount of ant-
bed obtainable; Sin. will do; 6in. is best.
Break up the ant-bed fairly finely, and fill
it in, tamping it down firmly and watering
it occasionally to assist consolidation. Apply
the water with a fine spray, and carry on
until the surface appears smooth and im-
pervious ; then let it set.
Formula for office paste, and cost? —6357.
Boil together half-teaspoon powdered alum
and half-pint water. Mix one tablespoon
plain flour to a paste with a little cold water,
smooth out all lumps with a spoon, and stir
it into the boiling water and alum. Cook
until clear like starch, then remove from
the fire, and stir in half-teaspoon essence of
cloves. Bottle in wide-mouthed jars, and
keep covered from dust. Use thinly and
sparingly, as it is a good sticker. Costs a
few pence.
Brief Answers.
G.McC.: Tail-docking of horses is forbidden
in Q’land. .. .F.D.H.: Usually pruned during July
or August, but the operation can be deferred until
just before the trees burst into growth. .. .E.M.8.:
Shale-oil production has recently been commenced at
Baerami, near Muswellbrook, and at Newnes. Get in
touch with the Shale Oil Development Committee,
Commonwealth Bank Building, Martin-place, Sydney.
. ...H.A.R.: Communicate with the Legal Aid
Department, ()ueen’s-square, Sydney... .M.C.: Tf
the will was lodged for probate in N. S. Wales, a
copy may be got from the Registrar, Supreme Court.
Inspection fee is 2s. ; cost of copy depends on length.
... .R.T.: Death duty is the same whether there is a
will or not. Up to £lOOO the duty (N.S.W.) is
2 per cent. ; on £2OOO, 2i per cent., increasing' by
i per cent, up to £5OOO at 3 per cent., and there- ;
after by steps of i per cent, up to £lO,OOO. Federal
duty is also imposed: from £lOOO to £5OOO, 2 per
cent. ; thereafter an increase of 1 per cent, for each 1
£lOOO up to £10,000... .Lex: (1) It is not neces-
sary to take the university degree. The exams, to
be passed are a preliminary or law' matric., the sub-
jects in which are Latin, geometry, algebra, history
and either Greek or French, or logic and psychology
(a leaving certificate covering these subjects is
equivalent) ; an intermediate or law history exam. ;
and a final, divided into two sections and covering
generally the body of common law, statute law
and equity. (2) Depends on ability: say two to
three years. (3) Passing without re-examination
in any subject, approx. £5O. Lectures in morning
and late afternoon... .W.G.A.E.: (1) Trade experi-
ence is not absolutely essential. (2) Jolly and
Bachelor, Roche and Dahl and Johnson and Sons—
all Brisbane. (3) Boot-finishing inks can be sup-
plied in any c010r.... D.F.S.: Enlistments in the
French Foreign Legion are not made outside French
territory... .W.G.T.: (1) Signwriters’ calico can be
obtainable from Horderns, Sydney. (2) Color is
mixed to a thick paste with varnish and thinned
with benzine. ... 8.M.: Usually sold at about 2s. 6d.
a thousand, but the market is limited... .H.M.C.:
(1) State tax, 12s. 4d. ; Federal tax, £ll os. 9d.
If the personal exertion income is derived from
sources other than salary or wages, £l3 10s. in addi-
tion will be payable. (2) Yes, where the net income
does not exceed £9OO. .. . R.J.N.: The play as stated
is correct, but the opener splitting his original quali-
fication must put his discard under the stakes in
the pool for reference later... .E.K.P.: (1) Best to
deal direct. (2) By international reply coupons,
obtainable from all post offices... .J.W.C.: Write
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney for “Bodger and the
Boarders” M.L.: (1) and (2) It affords protec-
tion throughout the British Empire and in practically
every other country except U.S.A. (3) Get the
Copyright Act from Federal Printer, Canberra....
J.F.G.: New Adelaide railway station cost £722,830;
expenditure on yards was £128,400... .G.A.M.:
Chances are pretty remote, even if you have had
experience. Inexperienced men stand no chance
unless they have influence. .. .W.8.F.: The artist is
not known. Can't assess value of picture without
inspection. .. .A.L.L.: Particulars too vague to trace
artist H.J.8.: Income tax is not payable on
lottery winnings. .. .E.N.D.: (1) “Such Is Life” was
issued by the Speciality Press, Melbourne; “The
Anzac Muster” by the author (Win. Bloc-ksidge)
privately; “The Montforts’’ by Constable, London.
(2) Myra Morris published “White Magic” (1929).
(3) Louis Esson has published “Bells and Bees”
(1910), and “Red Gum and Other Verses” (1912).,
W.B.: Grease the niekelled surface well
with any fat which contains no salt, and
leave for a few days. Then rub with a
rag charged with ammonia. If rust spots
persist, add a few drops of hydrochloric acid to
ammonia, rub and wipe off at once. Next rinse in
water, rub dry, and polish with rottenstone....
W.H.D.: Stop up all holes and chinks with unslaked
lime, or paint with a mixture of borax and heated
turpentine. At night set traps by spreading treacle
on pieces of flat wood, and setting them afloat in
shallow basins of water H.F.: No special demand
or use; it is rather an oddity than a commercial
product. You might be able to use the liquor as
sweet vinegar for pickles, or you might sell some of
the fungus by advertising it in the “Woman’s
Mirror”. . . .A.M. : A stocking-mending machine would
cost from £6O to £lOO landed in M.L. from the United
States, and it would take about six months to land
it. Local mending is done with small hooks, which
cost 3s. per dozen. Foster Knitting Co., 26 Jamieson-
street, Sydney, can supply hooks or import a machine.
G.R.A.: Try Elliott Bros., 20 O’Connell-street;
Australian Drug Co., 46 Carrington-street; and
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co., 158 Piti-
sti-eet —all Sydney. Australian Chemical Institute,
Gloucester-street, Sydney, can give information. The
chemistry diploma course at Sydney Tech, takes five
years ; cost about three guineas per annum. There is a
specialised course covering a shorter period A.M.:
Yes, she should have registered it in her own name.
D.G.R.: (1) The payment partly by cash and
partly by promissory note does not bring it within
the definition of a hire-purchase agreement under the
Moratorium Act. Apparently it is an ordinary con-
tract of sale and purchase. (2) This also is simply
a case of indebtedness, and as such not covered by
the Act A.W.M.S.: (1) Presumably interest would
run up to realisation of the estate. (2) Depends
on the intention of the testator. If the interest was
paid periodically during his lifetime, probably he
intended payments to be continued and to be part
of the income enjoyed by his widow. If no payment
of interest was made he intended it, no doubt, to be
calculated at his death and added to the sums
advanced F.J.: The white crepe rubber used for
soleing shoes is imported in the form in which it
is used. Crepe as used in soleing sandshoes is made
up locally. A very expensive plant is necessary for
milling the rubber. Crepe rubber can be purchased
in sheets at a very reasonable price... .F.R.: The
total duty collected in N.S.W. on writing ink, ink
powders, and liquid drawing ink during the financial
year 1930-31 was £2335. All the leading stationers
and paper-merchants import writing ink J.A.M.:
Service Department bars political controversies....
A.P.8.D.: Cannot recommend the treatment....
Expectant: There is no medicine that cures it. Take
plenty of outdoor exercise, avoid alcohol, suppers
and things that burn the tongue W.G.: The
reference is to sec. 26 of the Moratorium (Amend-
ment) Act 1931, price 6d. plus postage, 2d. Apply
to Sales Department, Govt. Printing Office, Bent-
street, Sydney, giving name and address.... M.M.:
Can’t say. Write Commissioner of Police, Sydney.
.G.A.R.: La Bruyere, 79 Fulham Place-road;
Oppenheimers Pipes, Finsbury-square; Comoy and
Co., Roseberry-avenue; Dunhills, Duke-street all
London; Reiss Premier Pipe Co., Inc., New Jersey,
U_g_.A G.R.S.: Reliable information not obtain-
able liere. Communicate with the Director of Agri-
culture, Rabaul. ... J.E.B. :(1) Not necessarily. (2)and
(3) No .T.J.D.: Write Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
York-street, Sydney... .J.S.N.: Corrodgery, meaning
sandy country ; Yarroom, river shingle; or Booyong,
ironwood-trees. .. .W.M.8.: “Eucalypts in New Zea-
land ” by J. H. Simmonds, Brett Printing Co.,
Auckland. Price 51s. 8d J.R.P.: There is no
Moratorium Act in S.A., but an Assembly committee
has reported in favor of a Mortgagors’ Relief Bill.
(Many othefs mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Jim Huntley, Resident
Magistrate at Ailcoroa, Papua, return-
ing to his post after sick leave,
has for a fellow-passenger Marian
Durrant, ivhom he had known as a
small child. She had keen brought up
“down south,” and is now paying a
surprise vidit to her father. Another
voyager is Freddie Chisholm, going to
Huntley's division as assistant. Hunt-
ley, who has fallen in love with the
girl, is alarmed. Always Charlie
Durrant had put his daughter off
coming to Aikoroa, where lie, too, lived
and had his plantation (Nataroa).
The R.M. is secretly relieved when,
arriving at Baramata, he finds that the
Maipua is laid up, and that Marian
cannot go on to Nataroa for ten days
at least. He arranges for her to stay
with Marchmont, another R.M., and his
wife. While Huntley is at the port a
man named Calvert, whom he dislikes,
tries to get an interview with Marian;
but Huntley repulses him. In Aikoroa,
meantime, the natives arc getting out
of hand. Huntley, with Chisholm,
arrives and takes over. Accompanied
by Sergeant Gibara, Huntley warns
the natives of Aikoroa of his return
in “twelve sleeps” to collect their tux-
money. Going on to Nataroa with a
letter for her father from Marian, he
finds Calvert has Charlie Durrant
stupidly drunk. Huntley clears the
dilapidated house of Calvert and his
woman, Saroni; her father, the sor-
cerer Maragi; and Durrant's woman.
The news of Marian’s imminent arri-
val plunges Durrant into despairing
remorse. Huntley persuades him to
live at the Residency. There Huntley
seems to Chisholm to be neglecting
his official duties. Suddenly lie real-
ises Huntley is grimly fighting to save
the dipsomuniacal Durrant from him-
self.
CHAPTER X ( Continued ).
A SHIVER shook Chisholm; a feeling
of nausea grew in his stomach. Hunt-
ley bent down and, by the exertion
of all his strength, lifted Durrant in his arms.
He laid him upon the bed. The old man
(seemed to be sleeping peacefully, breathing
full and deep, but drops of moisture hung
clammy on his forehead and his. face was
ashen. Very gently Huntley straightened
his limbs, thumped the pillow and laid it
under the old man’s head. Then, noise-
lessly, he drew the mosquito curtain and
stepped aside.
“Have you a cigarette handy, Chisholm?
No matter. There’s a tin on the verandah.”
. He looked quizzically at Chisholm, but his
eyes were troubled. “You’ve known many
an unstable man in your short life; many
an irresponsible man, I dare swear. Observe
this old turkey! In Charlie Durrant you
have the complete soak; the case-in-three-
days-laddie; the man whose mind and body
are obsessed with an overwhelming, insati-
able craving for booze.”
Huntley’s blunt, unhurried elucidation of
the Durrant mystery startled Chisholm.
His mouth was agape, his face screwed up
in wonder.
“I’ve been trying to straighten the old
fellow up,” Huntley continued, “but I’m
afraid I’ve bungled the job. Wrong
methods, I fancy—easing him off, you know,
with gradually diminishing doses. It’s no
dam’ good in Charlie’s case.” His face
was set in hard, calculating lines. “I’ll
start on anew line to-morrow. Charlie, is
going to find it excruciatingly painful and
damnably humiliating; but it’ll cure him
or kill him. Let’s get into the air, Chis-
holm. The whole business is pitiful,
really.”
Chisholm was still bewildered, still stag-
gered by Huntley’s matter-of-fact explana-
tion of all that had puzzled him at Aiko-
roa. He followed Huntley to the verandah.
Huntley threw himself into a chair and lit
a cigarette. Slowly he drew the smoke deep
down into his lungs and expelled it with
satisfaction.
“The sergeant and I collared his booze
supply the other day and locked it up in
the bulk store. That is the reason why
Charlie has been going off the handle at
me of late. To-night he bided his time
until he was sure I had dozed off. Then he
must have sneaked away and burgled the
pantry and dam’ near went off his rocker.
Methylated spirits! God Almighty!”
Chisholm was collecting his scattered
wits.
“I couldn’t be frank with you, old chap,”
Huntley concluded, “not altogether. Charlie
had to be given his chance. You savee that,
don’t you? I. know you’ve been fed up
to the back teeth; but I simply had to
keep mum about it all.”
“It’s a two-handed job, R.M.,” Chisholm
said impulsively. “May not I lend a hand?”
“Thanks, Chisholm.” Chisholm wahned
to the comradely smile Huntley flung at
him. “We’re not obliged, of course, to act
as moral shepherds of deadbeats. It is a
duty that is not included in the sphere of
our official activities, but Charlie Durrant
is—different.”
Chisholm nodded soberly. “Yes, R.M.,”
he agreed. “Miss Durrant’s daddy is
different.”
And they gripped each other’s hands with
unconscious intensity, and turned in.
They were at breakfast, Huntley and
Chisholm, when, from Durrant’s room came
the sound of yawning and stretching and a
long-drawn-out groan. Presently Durrant
appeared at the door, running his fingers
through his thin hair, frowning, puzzled.
Suddenly he comprehended and made a
wry face.
“Good morning, Huntley. Good morning,
my dear young friend,” he called out amic-
ably.
There was no response from - the two at
the table. Huntley, engrossed and dark,
was occupied wholly with his knife and
fork. Chisholm was making a mere pre-
tence of touching the food set before him.
He was pink to the ears.
There was a hectic flush on Durrant’s
seamed face. His eyes were hollow caverns
in his head, but in them was clear reason.
He cleared his throat, essayed a smile—
and failed.
“I have a most poisonous hea.d,” he re-
marked, “and I’m consumed, my dear fel-
lows, with a great and insistent thirst.”
Again there was no response. Chisholm
bent over his plate and achieved a look of
scowling intentness. Durrant’s uneasiness
became more apparent. His nostrils quivered
and he made a gesture of w'earied help-
lessness.
“I fancy that I owe you an explanation
and an apology, Huntley,” Durrant began
again. “I am extremely sorry that I should
have so far forgotten what was due to you
as”
“That’ll do.” Huntley cut him short. He
put down his knife and fork, touched his
lips with his napkin and pushed back his
chair. He faced Durrant with cold eyes
and a lip curled in faint scorn.
“The Maipua will be here the day after
to-morrow. There’s not much time left to
make a colorable imitation of a white man
out of you, is there?”
Durrant choked. His face began to
wrinkle venomously, and a nasty light
glinted in his eyes.
“Now, hold your tongue, Durrant!” Hunt-
ley snapped. “I’ve had quite enough of
your filthy temper. That’s hetter,” lie
added, as Durrant’s anger began slowly to
wane. “I shall require you at the office
when you’ve had breakfast.”
“Require me, Huntley? Do I understand
you to”
“You understand—just that,” Huntley
flung back at him. “You’re going to meet
your daughter with your chin up and your
shoulders squared; or else with a damned
loincloth round your waist and old Katuna
and her relations hanging on your arm. It
rests entirely with you.”
He turned to Chisholm. “It’s high time
I settled down to work. We’ 11 get along,”
he ended.
Half an hour later there came the sound
of footsteps on the office verandah, fol-
lowed by a knock on Huntley’s door.
“Come in,” he called out. And Charlie
Durrant edged into the room.
“Oh, it’s you. is it?” Huntley’s voice
was a growl. “Thought better of it, eh?
Sit down.”
Durrant slumped heavily into a chair.
“I’ve been going a little stale on you
lately, Charlie,” Huntley continued. “You’ve
noticed it, perhaps. Last night you sur-
passed yourself.”
Durrant’s face set in a scowl and his eyes
were sullen. “Your attitude this morning
when I tried to explain was insufferable,
Huntley,” he said. “You are”
“There’s nothing to explain, Charlie.
You’ve had your own sweet, way in every-
thing since—since —no matter when. Have
you any idea, I wonder, of what a precious
blackguard you are?”
The devil that was in Chatlie Durrant
looked out of his eyes for a second. Then
his face became stony. “Thank you, Hunt-
ley. You are, at least frank. May I say,
though, that you can’t quite use. me as a—
ah—doormat!”
Huntley raised his eyebrows. “Good God,
man,” he exclaimed, “d’you imagine that
I’m concerned about anything ‘you think?
D’you suppose that I’ve submitted to the
indignity of your appalling company out of
any regard for you P You leave, me,” he
added, “utterly unmoved.”
Durrant started to rise. “Then you shall
no longer be afflicted with my appalling
company, my charming host.”
“Sit down, you fool!” com-
manded. “I haven’t finished yet. Not by
a long shot. To me—and get this straight
—you’re Nataroa Charlie, and all that the
name implies. You are a standing reproach
to your white skin. It is blighters such as
you, with your filthy nigger habits and your
drunken debauches and your native harems,
that”
“You—you” Durrant grated. He
squirmed in helpless rage. “You go very
far, Huntley—very far indeed. You express
yourself with a freedom, a frankness—damn
you, Huntley, let me get out of this.”
He stumbled to his feet and lurched to
the door.
“You’re a perfectly free agent,” Huntley
declared; “you can depart at any moment
for the freshness and—er —sweetness of your
kennel at Nataroa.”
Durrant’s hand was on the door-knob. He
was shaking with fury.
“Have you any message for Maid Marian,
Charlie?” Huntley concluded brutally.
He saw Durrant’s tall figure stiffen and
then go limp; heard something like a sob
strangle in his throat. He turned round
and seemed to grope for his chair. For a
while he sat silent, his head in his hands.
“God!” he muttered, and there was no
mistaking the agony in his voice. “You’ve
got to stand by me, Jim. You shall—you
must! You’re self-sure, hard—you lads;
you don’t know the agony, the hell, the
unbearable” He held his head in his
hands again and lapsed into silence.
“Charlie!” Huntley said softly at length.
Durrant lifted liis head stiffly.
“From now on you place yourself un-
reservedly in my hands?”
Durrant nodded.
“On the level?”
“On the level, Jim.”
With a quick movement Huntley leaned
forward and laid a hand on Durrant’s shoul-
der-.
“You’ll find a bottle in the locker in my
room. Charlie,” he said briskly. “There
are two good nips in it.” His voice took
on an ominous finality. “Treat ’em gently,
Charlie, because to-morrow, you’re going on
the waggon—for good.”
Durrant drew a long shuddering breath.
“As you say, Jim.” There was an odd
dull flatness in his voice. His face cracked
in a bleak, wintry smile. “I’ll leave you
now, Jim. Those two nips, you know.”
“And there,” muttered Jim Huntley, as
the sound of Durrant’s retreating footsteps
died away, “save for the \grace of God and
the Public Service regulations, goes
Hell, what a sweet country this is!”
CHAPTER XI.
The shabby little Maipua fussed im-
portantly along the fringe of the reef, a
spearhead of fleecy spray at her bows, a
widening fan of snowy foam in her wake.
In honor of his lady passenger Captain
Fuller had resurrected a mildewed uniform
cap with a tarnished gold badge—a relic of
the days when he had sailed the seven
seas under a famous house-flag.
Fuller was a stout, genial man whose
sixty-odd years sat lightly upon him.
Though his hair was snow-white it grew
thickly upon his head and by contrast
heightened the pinkness of his smooth round
face. He had blue eyes of remarkable clear-
ness, and something about the line of his
mouth reminded Marian of a portrait of
Captain Cook of gallant memory that had
decorated her school-reader. Marian loved
him.
She occupied an inconspicuous corner of
the bridge lest she should distract the
skipper’s attention from the all-absorbing
task of conning his vessel in. Trim and
boyish she looked in a brief khaki skirt and
white blouse. Her red, curving lips were
eager, wistful; her eyes shone with a small
child’s excited happiness.
Captain Fuller sighed as he polished the
lenses of his binoculars on his jacket sleeve.
In his eyes was a grave seriousness. For
two days Marian had been the only pas-
senger aboard his grubby little packet. He
had watched her going gaily, laughingly
about the cluttered deck. He had seen the
glow in her eyes growing deeper, happier as
Aikoroa drew near. And the faint interest
which at first she had aroused in him deep-
ened to a tender pity. Fear began to gnaw
at him. For Fuller was a family man, and
he knew all that was to be known concern-
ing Nataroa Charlie, of Aikoroa Bay.
A naked bronze god with a flame-colored
clout girded about his loins was heaving the
leadline with a slow rhythmic swing. His
own twin straddled the cross-trees, peering
into the blue haze.
“Q-u-a-r-t-e-r —less sikkis!” (six) sang out
the man in the chains.
Fuller cocked an eye aloft, squinted at
the compass and tossed a word to the
savage at the wheel. He was nursing his
craft cautiously through seas that would
make the hair of a blue-water sailorman
stand on end.
“F-i-v-e f-a-d-o-m!” droned the leads-
man.
Fuller was suddenly alert. His hand
closed on the telegraph.
“She’s shoaling,” he answered Marian’s
questioning eyes. “It’s a matter of inches
between keel and coral at this stage of the
tide.”
“Q-u-a-r-t-e-r —less—f-o-u-r! ”
The engineroom telegraph clanged as
Fuller rang to half-speed.
“Marka [beacon], Taubada!” yelled the
look-out. “Right ahead. Taubada!”
“Nor’-east by north!” Fuller crisply
ordered. The spokes spun in the steers-
man’s muscular hands and came to rest.
“Nor’-east by north it is, sah.”
The vessel swung over on her new course.
A red-painted steel rail surmounted by a
triangular grill loomed up in the shoal
waters ahead. The skipper’s job absorbed
him completely. He was now on the port
side of the bridge, now on the starboard
side. His eyes were glued to his marks and
his voice rambled commands to take or give
a spoke or two as the exigencies of his posi-
tion demanded.
Slowly the beacon drew to the starboard
side.
"Steady!” Fuller called. "Hold her, my
boy!”
For five minutes the Maipua held her
course. Then Fuller took the wheel. A
narrow gap of blue water showed in the
line of surf ahead. The wheel spun, and
then, seeming to gather speed, the vessel
shot through two walls of boiling spume and
rode into the lagoon.
The steersman grinned his compliments as
Fuller handed over. Fuller pushed back
the cap on his white-thatched head and bit
the end off a long black cigar.
“May I release my breath now. Captain?”
Marian politely inquired. “May I break my
vow of silence?”
The skipper laughed. “Sure, my dear,” he
rejoined. “All clear ahead, now, and the
pick’ll be down in half an hour.”
The lagoon was a sapphire mirror in the
golden light of the afternoon sun. Aikoroa
Bay, with its fringe of feathery palms nod-
ding lazily in the breeze, its picturesque
village huts crowding the water’s edge, its
background of primeval forest and its
jungle-clad hills—mysterious, impressive—
standing clear against the cloudless sky, was
to Marian a vision of a home in Fairyland.
Her eyes were wide, her lips were slightly
parted, and to the loveliness she saw around
her she made obeisance with a sigh. Strange,
intoxicating thrills seized her. She was
lifted up on a wave of emotion. Impul-
sively she turned to the skipper.
“Aikoroa!” she breathed. “At last! Isn’t
it beautiful?”
Fuller’s blue eyes narrowed for a second.
Deliberately he flicked the ash from the
tip of his cigar.
“It is that,” he agreed heartily. “One of
the prettiest spots on the Papuan coast, my
dear.”
The skipper was not happy. He turned
away and bent his gaze on the convoy of
white gulls that escorted his vessel in.
His uneasiness grew upon him; he began
to fidget with anxiety. He tried to close his
ears to the girl’s prattle of Daddy and his
plantation at Nataroa; he tried not to think
of the ghastly disillusionment he felt was
imminent.
He spat in quick distaste. “If you had
the guts of a louse, my lad,” he muttered,
“you’d tell the kid the truth. Why don’t
you, you swab? Damn it, this smoke tastes
like wet straw.”
Marian reached for his glasses. The
skipper put them in her hand and squeezed
it tightly. She was vibrant with excite-
ment, tremulous with expectation. Eagerly
she swept the crescent of the blazing white
beach. She focussed the glasses on a bun-
galow on a little hill, half hidden behind a
curtain of nodding palm tops.
“Sail ho!” she shrilled, and the natives—
crew and passengers —took up her cry.
“There’s Daddy’s house—our house!”
She turned a flushed and laughing face
towards the skipper. His back was against
the bridge-rail, his hands thrust deep into
his pockets. An uneasy, uncertain smile
flitted over his face as he shook his head.
“Wrong, my dear.” Thpugh his voice
held compunction, he tried to speak
lightly, “That big place is the Government
residency. At the back are native quarters
—police barracks and so forth.”
Again he choked back an impulse to tell
her the truth; again he reviled himself for
a coward.
His eye searched for and found a spot
beyond' Aikoroa village where Nataroa
Charlie’s tin shanty mercifully hid its
hideousness behind a rampart of jungle
growth. He gave a quick start, smothered
an exclamation and darted a glance at the
girl. He had discerned a tenuous wisp of
smoke arising from the undergrowth where
no smoke should be. He rubbed his eyes,
swearing softly under his breath. There
came a blinding flash of light and the next
moment a sheet of flame, amethyst and
saffron fringed with black, poured upward
to the sky. Faintly the crackling of burn-
ing timbers was borne over the w r aters; the
roar of the flames, mingled with frenzied
cries, hoarse shouts and the strident out-
cries of frightened birds.
Marian’s face went white, her eyes held
an expression of fear and the fingers that
touched the skipper’s arm were taut.
“Your Dad’s having a bit of bad luck,”
he lied evenly; “that’s his copra-shed going
up in smoke. Let us hope it is empty.”
He pulled furiously upon his cigar. There
was no sense in lying to the kid. Why
wasn’t he man enough to put her wise?
Why not tell her that her father’s shack
was even now a smouldering heap of ruins?
The Maipua waddled in towards the
beach. The lagoon waters were as smooth
as a piece of azure glass. The telegraph
clanged and the gulls astern raised a squawk-
ing protest as the anchor chain rattled
through the hawsepipe. The wailing blast
of the siren cut through the air; a tousled
head appeared at the engine-room scuttle
and the oil-streaked countenance of the
engineer eyed the rattletrap steam-winch
with an expression of almost tearful melan-
choly.
Marian Durrant had come home.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling fact
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3 ; AVise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4 ; Sex at
Choice, by Airs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/- ; The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-;
Hygiene of Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4 ;
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr.
G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect Wife,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; AYomen and Love, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; The Complete
Husband, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Marriage Before and After, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale,
1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J.
Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by AY. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4 ; Physical Culture Simplified'-—A
Complete Course of Physical Culture, 6/3 ; Better Sight AYithout Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4 ;
The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10 ; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn
Brown, 5/5 ; Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Philip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should
Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; Knowledge a Young
Woman Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; The Book of Nature, 3/9 ; Contract Bridge, by Ely Cuthbertson,
8/6 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11 ; How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2 ;
SPECIAL OFFER!
PAINTING AND DECORATING.
WORKING METHODS
AH the secrets of the trade are explained. The most difficult jobs are
made easy. We make a special offer to supply this 15/- book for
10/-, post free.
Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nubs
and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Ten Best Card
Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6 ; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official
Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How to Play and
Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short
Prose Recitations, 3/4 ; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4 ; Table Rapping, 2/6; Practical
Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; 12 Best Indoor Games for
Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The
Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; How to Read the Hand, by Karma,
4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs,
1/11 ; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do
at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Ironwork, Steel arid
Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-; What to Draw and How
to Draw It, 4/10; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches
and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
21/-- Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3 • Bulletin Book of Humorous Terse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idrioss, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine,
by Jones—Special Price —15/- ; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; 1001 Riddles, New and
Old 2/2; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons
for * Beginners, 2/G; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis
Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. First.
WRITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS O.V SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
UNRIVALLED IN
QUALITY AND
EXCELLENCE—!
m:
r T'HE housewife is
■** saved a World of
work and worry by
Goldo Puff, Sao and
Thin Captain Bis-
cuits, because they
are each adaptable
to so many forms of
variation.
The addition of savoury
or sweet items, or fresh
i or stewed fruit to either
of these three biscuits
makes it a different
delicacy, whilst retaining
to the full its delicious
quality; they are always
so crisp and oven warm,
made of such carefully
selected ingredients that
they never fail to please.
Try also SPICY FRUIT ROLL,
Chocolate Nutty Crisp,
Raspberry Fruit Cream,
Shredded Wheatmeal
and don’t forget MIL K
Arrowroot, childhood’s
Perfect Biscuit.
cnm
FAMOUS
■scull
Important to Housewives — always ASK for Arnott s
There was a bustle of life ashore. A
white-painted whaleboat, her polished brass-
work gleaming, put off. A dozen uniformed
police were at the oars, and two white-
clad helmeted figures occupied the cushioned
benches aft. Captain Fuller watched them
gloomily. One was Huntley, the Resident
Magistrate, looking a bit tucked up on it,
he mused; the other would be the new
Patrol-officer—Charlton, or Chalmers or
Captain Fuller stiffened and riveted an
unbelieving stare on Huntley’s companion.
“Well, I’m damned!” he muttered. “Nata-
roa Charlie, clothed, sober and in his right
mind, by the living jingo!”
Marian could scarce restrain her eager-
ness as the whaler cut through the water
in sailorly fashion.
“Cheerio, Jim darling!” she cried.
Huntley waved a casual hand.
“Jim?” muttered the skipper. “Darling?
I’m certainly damned!”
Marian’s hand went swiftly to his arm.
She gave a little strangled laugh.
“I’m so thrilled that I’m giddy,” she ex-
claimed. “I’m glad I came—glad—glad—
glad! Here is where I belong. Where I
have always belonged.”
Captain Fuller cleared his throat noisily,
as if to answer; thought better of it and
enveloped his startled face in a cloud of
cigar smoke.
Marian was radiant, aglow with life and
laughter. She was perched on the bridge
rail, peering into a ridiculous little mirror,
dabbing at her impudent nose, quirking her
scarlet lips. The skipper’s eye wandered
from the girl to the whaleboat now come
abreast. It took in the smart, uniformed
native who stood on the forward thwart,
a boathook in his hand; it rested for a
moment on the two manifestly uneasy
white men aft. He spat reflectively over
the side. The skipper’s large, pink face
wore an expression approaching awe.
Keeping no more than steerage way the
whaleboat slid alongside. A deckhand
slung down a rope and made fast. Marian
was down the bridge companion in a whirl
of skirts and slim, silk-clad legs.
Jim Huntley was first aboard. Durrant
hung back, nervous, diffident. Marian’s eyes
laughed gaily into Huqtley’s. He took both
her hands, wondering at the emotion—
tense unnerving—that permeated every
fibre of his being as he felt her fingers
stiffen within his. She offered a demure
cheek. Huntley achieved what he hoped
was an expression of unconcern as he bent
his head and touched the proffered cheek
with lips gone suddenly dry. The skipper
choked.
Marian hesitated a second, almost drew
back, and then flung herself tempestuously
into her father’s arms. Her eyes—tender
now, wistful—searched his seamed face, hex-
lips murmured incoherent words. Gaunt,
haggai’d but scrapulously attired, he stood
facing her.
“You are really here? I am not dream-
ing, my dear?”
“Then you are not angry with me,
Daddy? Not the teeniest bit angry,
darling?”
A laugh, a little unsteady, reassured her.
Dun-ant’s facial muscles twitched, and the
tone in his voice was strained.
“My dear,” he answered shakily. “I
haven’t any words for you. To think of
your coming all these thousands of
miles”
Impulsively she held him tight and kissed
him.
“You poor, silly old darling!” she mur-
mured. “You look so tired and sick and—
and” Her eyes roved over him, seemed
to look into him. Durrant winced. “But
you’re my dear, wonderful old daddy, and
I’m vei-y happy.”
Huntley sighed. He felt suddenly out of
breath.
“Ghastly luck, the house catching fire
just as you,arrived,” he interposed. On the
bridge Captain Fuller’s head jerked in
a nod of comprehension. “We had been
having a rare old clean-up,” Huntley went
on, “in honor of your arrival. All hands
hard at it for a week past. Some wretched
native dropped a match, I fancy, and z-i-i-p!
the house went up like a tinder-box.
Beastly luck! Chisholm will tell us all
about it when he gets back.”
There was a cloud on Marian’s face.
“It’s nothing to worry about, really,”
Huntley assured her. “We’ll have a fine
new place ready for you in a few weeks’
time. A real New Guinea house with a
split-palm floor and a nipa-thatched roof-
cool, you know, and sweet and clean. And,
of course, I shall be delighted to have you
both a.t the residency until the new place
is ready.”
He patted her arm, nodded, and gave her
a quick smile. In Mai*ian’s eyes he saw
no doubt, no suspicion, no misgiving, but
contentment and an exceeding tenderness.
He turned abruptly and climbed to the
bridge, leaving Marian and her father to-
gether.
His manner changed when he greeted
Captain Fuller. “I say, skipper,” he opened,
"have you said anything or hinted at any-
thing that would—er—you understand?”
“Not a word, R.M.,” Fuller assured him.
“She knows nothing. I hadn’t the heart
to tell her, if you must know.” There was
warm approval in the skippei-’s voice.
Huntley gave an exclamation of lieai’tfelt
relief. “Good man!” he applauded. He
stepped to the rail and, glancing down, eyed
Marian. Her arm was round her father.
She was chattering vivaciously, smiling at
the old man, her eires wide and unafraid.
“We put a firestick into his old shack,”
Huntley explained low-voiced, “pabked that
woman of his back to the village, snaffled
his booze and put it under lock and key.
I’ve bathed him, shaved him and given him
the run of my wardrobe. And I’m keeping
him under my wing at the residency until
the new place is built.”
Fuller reflectively stroked his chin.
“I wish you luck, Huntley, from my
heart; but you’ve taken on a pretty
tall contract. I don’t know when
Nataroa Charlie kissed his last scrap of
decency good-bye, but it was a hell of a long
time ago. Still,” he went on thoughtfully,
“Charlie has his lucid moments.” He pursed
his lips and shook his head. “He’s a total
loss, if you ask me. Too far gone, my
lad; but more power to your elbow, Hunt-
ley.”
A cold smile touched Huntley’s lips.
“Take a peep at the girl,” he returned,
“and tell me if Charlie hasn’t done his duty
by her, a.nd done it well. There’s a lot of
the dinkum stuff hidden away in Charlie
Durrant. Between us we’ll find it and bring
it to the surface.”
“Brave words, Huntley. I’m with you—
all the way. All hands on the coast’ll be
with you. But they never come back, my
son.”
Huntley’s mouth hardened. “By God,
Fuller!” he rasped, “I’ll keep him up to it.
I’ll keep him clean with a lawyer-cane
before I’ll see that little lady let down.”
Durrant’s pleasant voice drifted up to
them. It had an odd, unexpected tremor.
“My dear, how can I express my feelings?
God knows my heart has been with you all
these weary years! Oh damn! May I
smoke?”
The two men on the bridge looked hard
at each other. Fuller coughed.
“I expected to meet, as usual, a disreput-
able old deadbeat this morning. And I’ve
been cudgelling my brains for something
plausible to tell the kid. You’ve done a
damned fine thing, Huntley, and I’m here
to tell you so.” He coughed again. “I’ve
girls of my own in Brisbane, Jim, and I’d
like to —to shake hands with you.”
Huntley’s face reddened. “Don’t be an
ass, skipper,” he said. There was a short
silence. “I wonder if I might tap you for
a little information?” Huntley inquired.
To Huntley it seemed that the skipper
was suddenly on guard, wary, considering
him.
“Go ahead, R.M.”
“Nataroa—Charlie’s plantation—is a
pretty valuable little property, isn’t it?”
“Go on,” Fuller countered, “you know
it is.”
“Four hundred acres or thereabouts, in
full bearing and cropping about twelve
hundredweight to the acre. Right, skipper?”
“Quite correct.”
“Even with copra down to twenty-three
fifteen there’s a dashed handsome income
skipper?”
Fuller nodded. “Handsome’s the word,”
he agreed.
“More than you or I will ever earn.”
“Naturally”—-drily.
“H’m!” mused Huntley. “Even when
one has made every allowance for his
daughter’s upbringing, for his staggering
liquor bills, and the cost of keeping his
'wife’s’ relations and their hangers-on in
luxury and idleness, old Charlie Durrant
should still be a fairly rich man.”
“Quite so.”
“Then why the hell isn’t he?” Huntley
snapped back.
Captain Fuller stared out to sea. Then
he turned and his cold blue eyes met Hunt-
ley’s levelly. “Ask Calvert,” he answered
briefly.
The donkey-engine turned over with a
tortured gasp. There was a hiss of steam
and a single, explosive monosyllable from
the engineer whose martyrdom had begun.
“Thanks, skipper,” Huntley said, “I shall ”
Unhurriedly, Huntley moved to the
ladder. “I don’t like Calvert,” he said
quietly, “I never did and I never shall.
And I don’t like his pal—or his father-in-
law, Maragi the Sorcerer. And most of all
I don’t like the way the bucks of Aikoroa
and all the villages of the bay are blewing
their tax money over the counter of Cal-
vert’s trade store.”
(To be continued next week.)
Next Door.
As the dark hours slowly
On ami onward wore,
There was merry music
In the house next door.
Sounds of harp and violin
Voicing joy I heard,
And a woman singing
Like a lark, dawn-stirred.
Somehow came the thought to me,
Came I know not why,
Of gay thrushes warbling
’Neath a hawk, poised high.
Wherefore came that thought to me
Rudely to destroy,
As alone I brooded.
Music’s hour of joy?
Notes of harp and violin
Rose all sounds above,
And a woman voicing
Ecstasies of love.
Yesternight has vanished.
And ’tis night once more....
Hark, a woman’s sobbing
In the house next door!
n.b.'W.
RODERIC QUINN.


fsd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitieia,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
TO THE TOBACCO TRADE.
M ATIONAL TOBACCO COMPANY
LIMITED, BRISBANE, require a
Wholesale Distributor for their renowned
Queensland’s Own “Mareeba” Tobacco,
“Sunny Girl” and “Sunny Boy” Tobacco for
the State of New South Wales.
APPLICATIONS only considered from
well-known tobacco Distributors. Applica-
tions received by the above Company in Bris-
bane.
Telegraphic Address: “Natobac.”
Letters: Box 1021 N, G.P.0.,,
Brisbane.
BANFF
Magnificent
6. 4
TOfg
\
0
Most Beautiful of all
Canadian Rockies Resorts
See this wonderland of the Rockies on the
Canadian Pacific route to Europe. You can
golf, ride, swim, climb and dance. Never a
dull moment. Bracing climate, magnificent
scenery. Palatial Hotel with C.P.R. Service.
Arrange to stop-over at Banff for a new
kind of holiday. Write for booklets to
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTEIS
D,he World’s Greatest 2’rave I System
Meeting.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COM-
-1 PANY OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
The FORTY-FOURTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING of Members will be
held at the Company’s Offices on TUESDAY,
3rd NOVEMBER, 1931, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1931.
To elect one Director in place of 0. E. Friend,
Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the Articles
of Association and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect one Director in place of C. H. Doyle,
Esq. (appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Janies Moir, Esq.), who offers himself for
re-election.
To elect one Director in place of J. H.. S. Angus,
Esq. (appointed to fib the vacancy occasioned by
the retirement of Lt.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge), who
offers himself for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. W. R. Chap-
lin and Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.). who
retire under Clause 181 of the Articles of Associa-
tion and are eligible for re-election ; and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from
20th October, 1931, to 3rd November, 1931,
inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
20th October, 1031.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Moonee Valley running last Saturday was
not very enlightening in a Melbourne Cup
connection. Homedale, the Gold Cup winner,
is not engaged in the big two-miler. She
was nominated, and, as J. H. Davis allotted
her only 6.13, Pat Nailon must regret hav-
ing scratched the Rossendale mare; she
revealed great finishing ability by her Valley
victory. Pat trains Homedale for E. Steele,
of Stainburn Downs station, central-west
Queensland. Nailon won good stakes for
Steele, including the Newcastle Cup, with
imported Honan, who now is doing stud
duty on his owner’s station. He pinned his
faith to Banner Boy in the Mia Mia Hurdle
at Moonee Valley. After making the run-
ning for over a mile, Banner Boy blundered
badly and dropped out of the picture.
Though unplaced in the Moonee Valley
Gup, both Second Wind and Prince Dayton
acquitted themselves creditably. Last year
Second Wind ran second in the Melbourne
Cup and won the V.R.C. Handicap and
Williamstown Cup. He was out of action for
the remainder of the season, but is coming
along rapidly with recent racing, and Jack
. Holt feels rather sweet on the chance of
i this Westralian-owned candidate. Second
Wind, who carries the Eurythmic colors, is
essentially a stayer. He has a substantial
burden (9.5), but may have better luck in
the Melbourne Cup than the Eudorus stal-
lion had. If either Sartaress or Miss Arrow
had landed the Gold Cup there would have
been loud rejoicing in the ring, as these
horses were rank outsiders. Sartaress won
the Werribee Cup, at 20 to 1, on the pre-
vious Wednesday. His rare victories have
Gert ; " Look at the bathers ,
Bert?
Bert:"! think thev look,
hideous?
don't vou like
BATHINGi QIRL.S ? "
Bert !" Ive never batweo A,Ny?
been achieved at long odds. Flemington will
suit Prince Dayton much better than Moonee
Valley, where there are sharp turns.
Veilmond’s disjday in the W. S. Cox Plate
at Moonee Valley did not commend him to
local turf followers as a Melbourne Cup
candidate. Coupled with Phar Lap on a
one-two basis, he carried more money than
any rival. George Price put on £lOO for
the owner, Ned Moss, but was undismayed
at the Limond stallion being unable to gain
a place.. “Veilmond,” remarked Price,
“takes a tremendous stride and is out of his
element at Moonee Valley.” Jim Munro,
who will ride Veilmond in the Cup, was
on him last Saturday, and expressed satis-
faction with the way in which he travelled.
Onlookers took a different view.
The W. S. Cox Plate is contested over a
special track, horses racing across the
centre of the course for nearly three furlongs
before reaching the course proper. Phar Lap
dwelt when the barrier rose, but Pike
allowed the champion to move along at his
own sweet will, and Phar Lap overhauled
Chatham at the first turn, taking charge
immediately afterwards. Pike was standing
up in his stirrups half a mile from home,
where Chatham, Johnnie Jason and Le
Legion began to close on him. Phar Lap
reached the judge, 24 lengths in advance of
Chatham, with Johnnie Jason two lengths
farther off. It was not a spectacular win,
because Pike took care not to over-exert his
mount. He did not wait for the conclusion
of the racing, but returned to Sydney by
the express. The crack horseman will
indulge in golf for several days before visit-
ing Melbourne again.
The only races on which punters showed
a profit were the Gold Cup (Homedale was
a 4-to-l favorite) and Dundonald Handicap
(Umbertana, second faVorite at threes).
Three winners started at 25 to 1. 33 to 1 and
50 to 1 respectively. Black Tartar (Bold
and Bad —Ivargyn), who created a surprise
in the event for juvenile colts and geldings,
is owned by J. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C.
committee. His colleague J. M. Niall carried
off the Dundonald Handicap with Umber-
tana, trained by Holt, who considered him-
self unlucky not to win Black Tartar’s race
with Gold and Green. The Heroic colt was
seriously hampered when Glorify hung out.
Now that the owners have announced
their intention of starting Phar Lap in the
Melbourne Cup “unless unforeseen circum-
stances occur,” speculation on that event
has livened up. The terms on which Pliar
Lap may be supported are almost prohibi-
tive, but ringmen are now disposed to field
against the other aspirants on a _ more
liberal basis than when they were in the
dark concerning whether the great chestnut
would be sent to the post. D. C. Davis has
reserved for himself and partner the right
to withdraw Phar Lap if the course is heavy
(Melbourne weather is proverbially vari-
able) or if Derby running reveals an in-
superable snag among the three-year-olds.
As to that, Chatham is coming on nicely.
He ran a capital race on Saturday, and is
going to turn out a first-class horse. Per-
haps his condition will hardly be good
enough to admit of his downing Ammon Ra
in the Derby, but he should trouble the
Maorilander in the Legers.
Apart from Phar Lap, Ammon Ra and
Chatham, it is a poor season for gallopers
in Australia, and, even with lOst. 101 b.,
Phar Lap ought to register his second vic-
tory in the Melbourne Cup. Carry On. a
stable-companion of Veilmond, is in splen-
did condition, and stamina will help her
materially. Other good stayers are Second
Wind and Prince Dayton. The best of the
three-year-old candidates may he Chatham
(if his Derby effort is satisfactory and it
doesn’t knock him out) and Johnnie Jason.
Fancies:—
Maribyrnong Plate: Sanballat, 1; Car-
amba, 2; Vauntry, 3.
Melbourne Stakes: Phar Lap.
Victoria Derby: Ammon Ra, 1; Chatham,
2; Johnnie Jason, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Pentheus, 1; Baccha
Sakao, 2; Winooka, 3.
Melbourne Cup: Phar Lap, 1; (Carry On,
2; Second Wind, 3.
* * He
The Canterbury Park meeting was
expected to furnish a couple of consolation
prizes for H. B. Lorigan, the Maoriland
trainer, who had no luck at Randwick; but
it didn’t. Lorigan’s pair, Lavington and
Gesture, were warm favorites for their
respective races, the Maiden and Flying
Handicaps; Lavington came with a late
run and was unfortunate to be beaten by
Tin tern (5 to 1) ; but Gesture, who had
every chance, could not get a place. This
little mare on two visits to Sydney has
quite failed to live up to her reputation
beyond the Tasman, and the owner, R. J.
Murpby, must regret she was not retired
to the stud, along with her sister, Miss
Nottava. The Flying Handicap fell to
Movie Star (3 to 1), one of A. D. Webster’s
string; Webster’s trips to Australia have
been very profitable to him and his son, who
does most of his riding.
A close second to Movie Star was Ranier
(7 to 1), and Frontier (7 to 1) was almost
as close a third. Ranier belongs to a dis-
tinguished family, but, though smart, is
never likely to rival the deeds of her
brother Rampion. Neither is Rosendo,
another brother, who, a 5-t9-4 favorite for
a division of the Highweight Handicap,
finished out of a place, Loch Garry (5 to 1)
winning from Promptitude, the second
favorite, and an outsider, Coinash. Still
Rosendo looks well enough to compensate his
stable presently on a course that may be
more suitable to him.
Offspring of Rossendale were very costly
to backers at the Park. Vertigern, a brother
to Panola, who has done nearly all his
racing in M.L., was backed to twos for the
Canterbury Handicap. H’e looked short of
work and ran accordingly, victory resting
with Flinders (7 to 2), who has won most
of his races on this track. Flinders is
owned and trained by William Kelso, whose
son Jack owns and trains the second horse,
Sunlover (8 to 1). Sunlover cut out the
pace, but faded at the finish, as he did in
other races, including the Newcastle Cup;
still, his conqueror on that occasion was
Strength.
Calendo is a good welter horse, and his
win in the other division of the Highweight
Handicap was the easiest of the day. His
party must have been surprised to get fives,
especially as it has been backing him this
year against horses like Veilmond and
Chatham. Nash (10 to 1) closed a fine day
for McShortodds by downing the fancied
horses, Warneton, Tea Rose and Ring Boy,
who was favorite, in the Campsie Handicap.
:J: sic * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
ICogarali Stakes: Snow Sun; next, Top
Gallant.
Flying Handicap: Promptitude; next,
Labor Girl.
Moorefield Handicap: Trenette; next,
Ring Boy.
Hurstville Mile: Chemosh; next, Just
Gold.
* * * =!■
“Bumpk”: The tote made its first bloomer
in Melbourne over Prince Dayton, the
backers of that horse in the Herbert Power
Handicap getting ten instead of eleven shil-
lings for their five bob. How the mistake
was made is not divulged. After _ the
machines have done their work the dividend
is calculated by the company’s expert mathe-
maticians and the answer to the sum checked
by inspectors of the Government. In a case
like this there is no redress, and the only
satisfaction punters get is the knowledge
that the money doesn’t go to the racing
club or the company to he squandered in
offensive luxury. It is paid into a fund
established under the Act, and at the end of
six months may be expended for the good
of the nation by a beneficent Government.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: How good is the money
available for class jockeys in Britain is
seen in the announcement that 16-year-old
Fred Rickaby will receive a retainer of
£2500 in addition to riding fees to take
Gordon Richards’s place as Lord Glanelly’s
first horseman. He is the third of his family
to win fame as a jockey. His grandfather
won the Oaks twice, while among dad’s
triumphs were the Ascot Gold Gup on Santoi
in 1901, and many other big races. A
female relative —it must have been his aunt
—has been twice victorious in the New-
market Town Plate, instituted by Charles
II. —the only race in England in which
women are permitted to ride.
* * # #
“Eagle Farm”: The retirement of W. J.
Tucker removes one of the most successful
horsemen and trainers Bananaland has known.
“Old Bill,” as he is called to distinguish him
from son “Young Bill,” who takes up his
discarded mantle, came to Australia with his
people at a very early age and rode his first
race at 3st. 121 b. In his day he rode the
winners of practically all the big Queens-
land events, and he was even more successful
as a trainer. Since the 1914-15 season alone
he has won 274 races, five Brisbane and
four Queensland Cups being included in the
bag.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fighting like another Jerry Jerome, Alby
Roberts (10.7 i) was too tempestuous for
Russ Critcher (10.54) at Leichhardt last
Friday night, and won decisively. Roberts
did all the leading for four rounds, during
which Critcher caught plenty of punishment.
Russ became more aggressive, and almost
held his own until the tenth, hut from then
onwards it was all Roberts. The abo. could
not k.o. his man. though, and had to be
satisfied with a points win. Critcher’s 10.7
title was not at stake.
jfc
Brisbane Roy Baker (7.10) worried Vic
White (8.0) for a few rounds at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, and his lusty
left swings seemed too solid for Australia’s
flyweight champion. But the more punish-
ment White received the harder he fought.
He had Baker in a bad way in the sixth,
and the referee decided that the Queenslander
had taken enough for one night.
The Ins and Outs
South Africa’s kick-off against Westralia
at Perth was not particularly impressive,
allowing for the fact that the ’Boks were
not long off the boat. Their fielding and
batting were generally up to expectations,
but the bowling was not. Batting first, they
ran to 362 for seven wickets before declar-
ing, J. A. Christy, a hard-driving batsman
with a long reach, top-scoring with 102.
Bryant, who took 4 for 48. was the most
successful Westralian trundler. The
“Gropers’ ” first knock yielded 205, includ-
ing a slashing innings by left-hander Brom-
ley for 48. Bell’s fast-medium stuff brought
him 3 wickets for 48 and Christy showed
he was a useful all-rounder with 3 for 35.
The ’Boks closed their second innings with
3 down for 151, Christy (36) and E.
Dalton (53 n. 0.) leading the scoring. West-
ralia had a narrow squeak for the draw, but
managed it with the loss of seven wickets
for 159, Bromley again shining with
another fast score —78 this time. Bromley
may prove the left-hand batsman the Aus-
tralian selectors are looking for. Bell (3
for 29) and McMillan, a slow leg-break mer-
chant (4 for 58), did the damage.
* * #
“Tenth Slip”: Looking over the list of
N.S.W. cricketers selected to open the Shef-
field Shield season against Queensland at
Brisbane one notes the omission of the
country batsman Allsopp. A couple of sea-
sons ago this youngster was looked on as
a possible rival of Bradman. After a great
knock for 155 n.o. against Queensland, he
hopped into the Ma State team and ended
the season with an average of 64.57 in Shef-
field cricket. In 1930-31 he played 12
innings for an average of 46.25 and a “high-
est” of 136. As far as the selectors for
N.S.W. are concerned, however, he lias
ceased to exist. Whaffor? Apart from his
batting ability, the lad is a stumper out of
the ordinary.


EXHILARATING ADVENTURE
IN MODERN AMERICA!
m
m
m
m
Wm
m
m
m
m
m
m
i
Right—Boarding one
of America's great
trains.
V
■I
mm
m
1
m
Above New York's 86-story Em-
pire State Building...tallest in the
world today.
Above Fifth Avenue, New York
...fashion's boulevard, teeming with
the life of the giant metropolis I
M ASSES IN
people... masses in architec-
tural triumphs... America’s
cities offer absorbing specta-
cles of new world life. Rival-
ing them in allurement are
scenic marvels that hold you
spellbound.
Bringing every point of inter-
est within easy reach, Amer-
ica’s railways make travel
simple to arrange, delight-
fully comfortable, most inex-
pensive. They provide a serv-
ice that is unsurpassed in all
the world.
Plan your visit to England to
include America... reached
on swift Matson Liners via
New Zealand...Fiji...Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco.
A free illustrated booklet
will be gladly sent upon re-
quest. May we help you plan
your itinerary?
AMERICAN BAIIWAYi
TRAVEL and
INFORMATION BEREA*
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone 87981 *3
The Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: South Australian cricket fol-
lowers are looking forward to the first stiff
Test the Springboks are faced with —the
„ame against the Wheatfielders on the
famous Adelaide Oval, on which so many
travelling cricket sides have come to disaster.
With Victor Richardson in charge, and
Nitschke and George Harris in great bat-
ting form, the Croweaters will take some
beating, especially as the Afrikanders will
be meeting Clarrie Grimmett for the first
time. However, the googly king is rarely
as dangerous on Australian pitches as he
is elsewhere, and there is more than a pos-
sibility that the fast-footed South Africans
may flay his deliveries. Of all bowlers in
sight in Australia to-day, the lad likeliest to
give the ’Bolts trouble is Ron Oxenham, of
Queensland; the harder and faster the
wickets are the better he is suited.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: For years the Australian
cricketer, with a few exceptions, has shied
at the locally-made bat —he used to do the
same thing where the locally-made ball
is concerned, but he now knows better.
South Australia is nowadays putting
first-class bats on the market which are
being used by first-class players. Years
ago a resident of Tweedvale started a bat-
factory, the wood being from willows planted
by himself. The war intervened, and after
that the manufacturer had all his seasoned
stocks taken over for artificial limbs. The
chance has come again to accumulate stocks
of seasoned willow “billets,” and the factory,
now a limited-liability concern, is finding
the demand for its product hard to keep
up with.
i|i :Jc $
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland is still hoping to
entertain an Australian cricket side this
season, though the authorities on this shore
of the Tasman don’t quite see how it can be
done. The Shivery Islanders say they would
be content with a second eleven, but even
that is hard for anyone on this side to select.
There are at least 30 men with claims
for Test-match selection in the series to
be played against the Afrikanders. There
are as many in each State who Jiave a hope
of getting into Sheffield Shield cricket. Under
the circumstances, and with the best will in
tlie world, it looks as if the All Blacks will
have to wait until next season.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The cricket team to represent
N.S.W. against Queensland in Brisbane in
the first Sheffield Shield match of the season,
beginning on November 0, is interesting in
that the selection is an eloquent manifes-
tation of the State’s shocking lack of bowl-
ing talent. The batsmen are there in force,
of course, but that N.S.W. should have to
fall back on that oft-tried slow-stuff mer-
chant Campbell is significant. Another
man obviously picked for his bowling is
Amos. Queensland didn’t play him last
year, and tlie young N.S.W. man, returned
to his native heath, boasts a Sheffield
Shield bowling average of over 40. He is,
however, a magnificent slip fieldsman. The
bowling hopes of the N.S.W. side are the
youngsters Hunt and Hird. The first-named
is a left-hander, who may go far in cricket
if he keeps his block and uses his brains.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The news that the French
Tennis Federation has approved a scheme
permitting “open” tennis tourneys will come
as good tidings to the Australian followers of
the game who have for years been advocat-
ing the intermingling of professional and
amateur players, as is the case in cricket
and golf. France, with America, has always
in the past been opposed to the idea, which
even conservative Britain has endorsed. The
Australian tennis authorities will probably
fall into line, though they have showed them-
selves in the past more hidebound in respect
of amateurism than their overseas con-
temporaries. The change, permitting, as it
will, men of the calibre of Tilden, Hunter,
Kozeluli and Australia’s J. O. Anderson
to mix with the cream of the latter-day
amateurs, should do both sections of the game
a lot of good.
“Hotham”: Efforts are being made to get a
Maoriland team over to Australia for the
national championships. Australia and Maori-
land, which were one in a tennis sense in the
days of Tony Wilding and Norman Brookes,
have parted brassrags of late years. The
last time we saw an official representative
team from M.L. on this side was in 1926,
when E. D. Andrews, who promised to be
another Wilding, won the N.S.W. junior
singles, beating Jack Crawford and Harry
Hopman in the process, and was runner-up in
the senior singles to that great N.S.W. coun-
try player F. E. Kalms.
X ■(. * *
“Top Spin” : N.S.W. keeps up its sport-
ing tradition of being the same old nark.
The tennis variety of it refused to accept the
scheme put forward by Norman Brookes
w 7 hereby two new “zones” for the Davis Cup
would be created, the idea meaning much
saving of expense and giving Australian
players in particular more frequent oppor-
tunities of figuring in the world-wide tour-
ney—the mere fact that the scheme had
been thought out by a Victorian was enough.
However, the A.D.T.A., the deciding factor,
favored Brookes’s scheme, all State delegates
save N.S.W. voting in accord. The matter
will now go forward to the International
Federation for approval or otherwise.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : The N.S.W. open cham-
pionship, the first battle ever held under
this label in the Ma State, will begin on
November 20, and the result will hinge on
72 holes of stroke play on Manly links.
For snobbish reasons N. S. Wales has long
lingered behind some of her sister golfing
States in staging such an annual event.
However, that is all over, and the man who
is paid for playing golf and the man who
pays for playing it will meet on equal terms
at Manly.
* :!: X- X
“Hamilton”: The Queensland professional
golf championship played last week on the
Eagle Farm course provided some excite-
ment, the final going as far as the 36th
green. C. Brown won, as he did last year.
His opponent was the 22-year old Sydneyite
Cohen, who, when a caddy at Moore Park,
attracted a lot of attention. Brown, who is
now a pro. at Goodna, won the open cham-
pionship of the State as an amateur in 1923.
.** * #
“Baffy”: A recent reference to the pro-
posed electric lighting of the Woollahra
municipal course recalls that Bolger, the
Parramatta professional, who was runner-up
in the Australian professional champion-
ship, made an attempt to popularise
night golf on his own not long ago. He chose
a moonlight night for a stroke round of his
home course and went round in 84 —the course
is bogeyed at 74. All the help he got in the
way of illumination outside the moon was
from a couple of hurricane-lamps. One of
these was placed alongside the ball when
making a stroke and the other at the hole
played for.
* * * *
“Miramar”: A. J. Shaw retained the open
golf championship of Maori land last week
when he downed the Wellington amateur
E. M. Macfarlane by a stroke, with a total
card of 287. The match was played on the
Shirley course at Christchurch, so both men
were on neutral ground. Shaw was cham-
pion in 1926, and the only man who has
relieved him of the title since is Sloan Mor-
peth, the Auckland amateur, who is now
secretary of Royal Melbourne —he won in
1927.
t'fi ❖ *
“Carnoustie”: According to “Golf Illus-
trated” there are now some 750,000 practi-
tioners of the Royal and thirsty game in
Britain. These people are estimated to
spend some 50 million pounds yearly, or
about £66 per head. It seems a lot of money
for the England we are told is so hard up,
but as it includes subscriptions, competition
fees, caddy fees, clubs, balls, clothing, travel-
ling expenses and nineteenth-hole costs, it
is not hard to see liow it is made up. One
extortion, general in Australia, does not as
a rule afflict the British golfer. That is
the green fee, to which so many club mem-
bers in this country are .strongly antago-
nistic.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: There has been a revival of
protest against the decision of St. Andrews
regarding steel-headed golf clubs which prac-
tically bans the ridging or marking of the
club face. Yet 99 per cent, of players get no
benefit from the curiously faked clubs,
mostly Yankee in origin, for which they pay
fantastic prices. The only way to use an
iron properly—and the same applies to a
wooden club —is to do so in the obvious
fashion. Consider the instrument and the
use to which you desire to put it and then
attack the problem confidently. Cut out of
your mind all this nonsense about grip and
swing, to say nothing of a thousand other
absurdities. Golf is not the problem
Which many of its devotees regard with
apprehension. It is just good fun, and it is
not until he has realised this that the aver-
age man going in for the game may be
considered to have graduated in the uni-
versity of life.
Car and Cycle
“Wliawakerera”: The beach on which
Norman Smith and Don Harkness are to
make their attempt on the world speed
record early next month lies some 200 miles
n.-n.-w. of Auckland on the west coast of the
North Island of M.E. When the tide is down
there is a three-quarter-mile wide stretch
of sand so hard that a pneumatic-tyred lorry
driven over it does not even make an inden-
tation. When Segrave drove the Golden
Arrow at Daytona the car tracks showed
that, as the result of striking a bump in
the sand, the Arrow jumped 50 feet before
touching the beach again. Smith had two
runs on the Ninety-mile over a 10-mile
course early this year, hitting as high as
160 m.p.h. His tracks showed that the
car had never lifted from the sand during
the long run, while he found the steering
ease itself.
:]: * *
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell has been un-
burdening himself of some reflections on the
benefits that motor-racing has bestowed on
the public. He mentions particularly four-
wheel brakes, small engines developing great
power, streamlining of bodies, and tyres that
last for 20,000 miles. As the owner of a car
—when my offspring are not using it—l would
like the address of Malcolm’s tyre-purveyor.
I fancy the average Australian motorist is
well satisfied if his tyres can stand up to
5000 miles, no matter how good the brand.
Our road conditions see to that.
* *
“Crank” : Hubert Opperman has evidently
abandoned his intention of settling in
Europe, for the cables state that he is coming
back to his native land to race on the roads
and tracks and also show a film depicting
the Tour de France run. The Victorian cham-
pion has come on a long way from the days
when lie first learned to push a bike as a
telegraph boy. Besides an entourage of
Australian and European cyclists (Bobby
Spears and Fatty Lamb, among others), he
will be attended by his French valet, one
Gaston Degy.
$ * * *
“Rat-Trap”: “Do I sleep, do I dream?
Are there visions about?” I am quoting
Bret Ilarte as a consequence of a statement
in the Sydney “Herald” to the effect that
“Danish” riders have swept the cycling pool
in Europe this year, the chief of a trium-
phant trio being one 11. Horder. Unless
the writer is very much mistaken, this Vik-
ing is the H. Horder of Australia who won
the cycling championship of America some
years ago. Horder was rather astounded
after that victory to hear the multitude sing-
ing what he thought was “God Save the
King” as he rode round the track after the
race. Later 'he learned that it was the
American “My Country, ’Tis of Thee,” which
is sung to the same -tune.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: In these regimented days
nothing that is done is believed unless it is
duly checked and documented by those set in
authority for the purpose. That is the ex-
perience of one Gordon Lansdown, who left
Melbourne on a push-bike at four o’clock
one recent morning and arrived in Sydney
at 6.45 p.m. the following day. The trip thus
took him about an hour less than Qpper-
man’s record. The fact that the rider is
only 16 years old, complicated, probably,
by a certain reticence which prevented him
telling cycling officials of his intention, has
caused these last to cast the cold eye of
suspicion on the lad. His record, it is
officiallv announced, will not be recognised,
*
«». n
Miscellaneous
“Bias”: I note with regret the remarks
of a Bulletin correspondent who recom-
mends the use of broken glass for rectifying
the alterations made to woods by the
official tester. That sort of thing is bad
form. I admit, as one who likes a straight
wood myself, that the laws laid down by
the panjandrums of the Australian Bowls
Council—to a man folk who prefer a wood
with a lot of draw in it—are irritating
to people of more catholic ideals. But the
use of sandpaper or glass as a corrective to
their mistaken activities is not to be coun-
tenanced. It is far better to remove the
ivory disc on the side of the bowl and with
a fine gimlet bore a hole against the bias.
Hammer or pour tea-chest lead into this
and carefully replace the disc.
* * * *
“Tamboon”: “Toowong Reach” (B.
7/10/’3l) is astray in stating that the Break-
fast Creek Rowing Club crew that won the
Champion Fours in Sydney in 1890 had three
Cambridge Blues in the boat. Joey Bell was
not in the crew, which consisted of Willie
Bell, Colin Bell, Tom Bell and Billy Molle.
Tom Bell was no relation of the others. As
Dr. 11. T. Bell he practised medicine at
Murwillumbah, but has been dead for
some years. He was also a fine Rugby
tlireequarter and played for Queensland
against N.S.W. in 1889. Joey Bell, however,
gave the Queensland eight that won in Mel-
bourne in 1891 a lot of useful coaching
prior to their leaving Queensland. On
arrival in Melbourne, Stanley Gollan car-
ried on the coaching on similar lines, lie,
too had rowed at Cambridge. Gollan was
a Maorilander who was racing Tirailleur,
Tiraillerie, Sterncliaser and other Musket
horses in Melbourne at the time.
* * * *
“Bowline”: The Northcote Cup race for
six-metre yachts is to be sailed for in Syd-
ney this season over a week, beginning
January 12. The Victorian yacht Toogoo-
loowoo 11., which had darned bad luck m
losing last year, is the challenger, and lolaire,
the cup holder, will again stand up tor
N.S.W. On last season’s form, the Vic-
torian yacht, given a far share of the luck,
should this time lose her opponent.
* * * *
“Swan” : Westralian yachtsmen are tuning
U p for the Forster Cup race for the
“restricted” 21’s, which is posted for Feb-
ruary 6. Royal Perth will run the show,
and there will be other races that week,
Queensland, which has taken the cup more
than once, is definitely out of it this tune.
South Australia, 'Victoria and Tassie look
like being the only opponents of the Gropers,
* * *
“Skysail”: The trans-Tasman yacht race
i s to be repeated. The winner last year—
though his title has been fiercely disputed—
was one Tambs, a carefree Norwegian who
] ias been wandering about Polynesian waters
ever since. He has challenged all and
sundry, hut stipulates _ that there shall be
no engines on board his competitors.
* * *
“Red Spinner”: Fly-fishing has so many
votaries in Australia nowadays that it is
strange no one has thought of starting
a school of instruction. London has one
where a retired officer coaches aspirants on
a quiet pool in a London garden. In Lng-
land in the days of my youth the neophyte
was first instructed on a lawn, with a small
shirt button taking the place of the fly.
When he had grasped the idea of casting he
was promoted to the real thing on the water,
* * , *
Gate : One of the stars of the JNoith
of England Rugby League team in Australia
next season will be Douglas Clark, who
plays for the Huddersfield club and is eham-
pion heavyweight wrestler of inis
is something new, for though many English
exponents of the professional code who' have
come to Australia have proved very nancy
with their fists, no mat artist has yet shown
up. Clark will wrestle m Australia, and
his manager, who bears the fine old Anglo-
Saxon name of Relwyskow, is looking for
matches for his man.


CASH’S RIBBONS WASH WITH THE
GARMENT.
Cash’s Washing Ribbons once threaded
need never be removed. The dainty
pastel Shades come out of the wash like
new. Cash’s Wash Ribbons meet every
requirement of modern Lingerie, and
are universally popular for Shoulder
Straps. Ask your Draper.
p^Ks)Namesj
TO MARK£ ITuNEN/ |
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
‘ 'Write for Name Style Circular to
J & J. CASH,,
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
V* T <*-S
12 d
7/6
6d
S/
3 dot
3/6
REDUCTION IN CHRISTMAS TARIFF
AT MT. BUFFALO
The tariff at The Chalet, Mt. Buffalo National Park
(Vic.)» f°r the coming Christmas-New Year vacation
fortnight has been reduced from 17s. 6d. to 15s. a
day.
Combination tickets are on issue at the Sydney
and Melbourne Tourist Bureaux, for the Christmas
fortnight, covering first-class return rail and road
travel to Mt. Buffalo, and one week’s accommodation
at The Chalet.
From Sydney, £ll
From Melbourne, £6/15/-
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Anchises . . 10,000 tons, Dec. 1
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Dec. 9
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ Jan. 18, ’32
I'Themistocles 12,500 ~ Feb. 16, ’32
*Nestor . . 14,500 ~ Mch. 8, ’32
.. 18,500 ~ Mch. 15, '32
•First class only. fFirst and third class,
t Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety # Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life
It was something like a party when the
committee of the Garden Club entertained
Lady Isaacs, wife of the Governor-General,
to dinner followed by a reception. The
affair was quite the tony flutter of last
week; and, as the club has all the amenities
of a private house (it is one of the old
Elizabeth Bay homes), the keynote of the
evening was a friendly intimacy. The rooms
were set about with tall blue delphiniums
and liippeastrums in red lacquer bowls, and
pink roses which had miraculously escaped
the thrip, and carnations and watsonias.
On the dinner table the blaze of tulips
must have reminded Lady Isaacs of her
home at Canberra. There were no men
guests at, the dinner, as the G.-G. could not
attend; but the perfect little meal was
served by white-coated stewards.
Afterwards, while the guest of honor was
being greeted by the nine-o’clock arrivals in
the lounge, the frocks got a chance to spread
themselves. The silvery-grey satins of the
G.-G.’s lady were of rich texture, and she
carried herself as though she had a spine,
instead of a jellyfish, in her back. Her
jewels were discreet but right, and she was
accompanied by her two daughters, Mrs.
Sefton Cullen and Mrs. David Cohen, the
latter’s pale pink-lace frock made with a
caped effect, the former in trailing violet
georgettes. Mrs. Piekburn, president of the
club, wore one of the best frocks, a shimmer
of black and gold contrived of black lace
meshed in finest gold. Two handsome frockers
were Mrs. Herbert Kendall, in black satin
served with pearls, and Mrs. Torn Bolin,
who wore petunia georgettes and waved a
feather fan in two shades of amethyst.
Kelso King’s lady flashed in gold lame, and
before everybody got settled down to bridge
there was just time to notice actress Iris
Darbyshire in apple-green chiffons, the
coatee thereof edged with black fox; the
Louis Nelkins. from Melbourne: Mrs. Sep
Levy, in black; Mrs. Ernest Brookes, in
sculped white satin; Aides Gifford, Boyce
Shannon and Forrest, the last willow-slim;
artist John Longstaff, the Henry Braddons,
and the gallant Captain Feakes with his
wife.
The 40 new tropical fish which are to
add their color to the aquarium at Taronga
Park through the generosity of Mr. G.
Buchignani, electrician on the Ventura,
started this Letter ruminating on the way
of a male fish with a maid. It had been
watching the antics of two who looked as
though they thought they were parked in
the car during a long interval between
dances. And then a knowledgeable atten-
dant confided that a study was being made
of the courtship and marriage customs and
nursery habits of the gudgeons, well-known
residents of Taronga Park.
The gentleman was most devoted to the
lady, it seems, for several days, playing
around her, playfully nibbling at her and
putting on his brightest colors; and the
lady did the best a fish can do to keep in
step. Then one morning they found the
lady had chosen a quiet place to deposit her
eggs. After that it was the gentleman who
got busy—very busy if the lady came within
sight. They thought he was the worst-tem-
pered gudgeon they had ever met until they
discovered that the lady’s favorite dish was
ova; wherefore the gentleman guarded it
and dandled it and, finally, if he had man-
aged to save it from the lady, succeeds in
hatching out numerous baby gudgeons^ —this
takes five or six days. And then the
whole business begins over again—courtship,
wedding (with the two parties not neces-
sarily present at the same time) and the
bad nursery manners.
Apparently the gentleman gudgeon can be
quite annoyed when the lady g. becomes too
persistent. On a recent morning, when they
looked into see if there were any more inci-
dents, they found that the most conspicuous
one was a dead lady; and any reasonably
intelligent fish-policeman could have seen
that her husband had . given her the father
of a beating.
However, there is no doubt now about
the love-making of fishes, and that they are
capable of something that passes for affec-
tion;.
The city was strident with the cries of
newsboys yelling the Field divorce case when
this Letter, reflecting grumpily that there
weren’t many buttercups and daisies in that
killing-yard, plunged into the basement of
the Town Hall. Here tlie Royal Horticul-
tural Society had put up its petalled ram-
part of beauty, and walking between the
hippeastrums, the cool iris, the vivid tulip,
the golden and red carnations and the velvet
roses were men and women with such eyes
as those with which Eve and Adam regarded
their world. Shrubs from the bush wilds,
having been taught the beautifying value
of restraint in garden ways, bloomed happily
and lavishly. The Governor, Sir Philip
Game, who opened the show, admitted that
Lady Game was the gardener of their home,
and the Vice-reine smiled above her posy
of lilies of the valley, which had been
grown in the Bowral garden of the society’s
president, Dr. Poate. The doctor, by the
w y ay, showed among his tulips and irises
some real bluebells. A stately rose, by name
Mrs. Charles Lamplough, won a prize for
Mr. J. G. McKern, while a hymn of praise
should have been sung to Mrs. C. R. Stevens’s
carnations and Mrs. Kershler’s roses and
gerberas.
The ladylike parson going out, the lady
parson comes in. This State, following the
example of S. Australia, has just acquired
one. She is the Reverend Joan Ilore, and
she is properly ondained, and can now
christen, wed and bury you with as much
benefit of clergy as the Archbishop of Can-
terbury could bestow. The Reverend Joan
is a minister of the Congregational Church,
and her cure of souls embraces Speer's
Point, on Lake Macquarie; Islington, a
suburb of Newcastle; and Bercsfield, in
the Maitland district. Her congregation at
Speer’s Point is mostly composed of women,
but at Islington there are as many men
as women in the pews.
Miss ITore is a Tasmanian, her cheeks
rosy, her blue eyes clear. Her father, who
for years was captain of the mission ship
John Williams, was before that an explorer
in Central Africa. Miss Hore started life
as a teacher —she’s a graduate of the Tas-
manian Uni.—first in the schools in Hobart,
later at Redlands in Neutral Bay. Then
she did mission work in India till once, when
she was home on furlough, the church heads
urged on her the idea of concentrating on
the Home Mission.
In spite of Ruskin, this Letter believes
that the Reverend Joan will make a very
successful minister. She speaks with an
appeal to the intelligence as well as to the
emotions, her diction is very nearly fault-
less, and she has original lines of thought.
At least one listener had not realised before
her address last Friday, in Church House,
what a fine figure of a man Esau was: a
traveller, an adventurer, a good mixer, a
man full of stories. Spiritually, compared
with Jacob, Joan showed he was a washout ;
but even she admitted he was a he-man.
South Australia’s lady parson is Mrs. Kick,
whose husband is principal of Parkin Col-
lege ; but it is probable that no more eloquent
preacher will be found in this generation
than Mrs. Octavius Lake, who preached to
an earlier generation of South Australian
and Victorian Methodists.
This is Sadie Irwin, whose first recital
since her return from Europe was given in
the Arts Club
recently. Sadie
won a three-
years’ scholar-
ship for piano-
playing to the
Trinity Col-
lege, London.
The clever
girl, who had
for teacher
Charlton
Keith, for
many years
K r e isler’s
a c companist,
won a further
si x months’
tuition, and
the Grosvenor-
Gooch prize.
Sadie is a
Q u eenslander.
Assoc iated
with her in
the recital was Heather Bell, a singer with
a voice as sweet as her name.
Two hours of fascination lie ahead of all
who visit the Arts and Crafts show in the
Education Gallery. First of all, there are
the posters, which fill the entrance room.
These are vivid pictures of Mauritians grow-
ing sugar: the green of the cane, the black-
ness of the growers and the blues and reds
of their raiment are only equalled by the
colors of the plump ladies of Ceylon, grow-
ing our early-morning tea, by the wiry
gentleman in a hat riding out of jungle green
on a magenta buffalo to supply us with sago-,
pudding, or by energetic Malayans plucking
pines for our delight. These posters, many
of them brought back by Myra Cocks, are
strong and colorful and carry forward the
imagination. Near by a set of London-
Scottish railways posters show travellers of
the past —men in heavily curled wigs,
Quakers in their hats and bands, bustling
along to their coaches. Then there is the
amusing one of the London Zoo, where the
animals are outside the cages and the
humans within—oh, it’s a knowing old vul-
ture that, just outside the cage ! Another
packed with human interest is the country-
side at Whitsuntide. Here are masses of
humans engaging in every kind of sport, till
it would seem that every blade of English
grass must be an Englishman’s home. The
Australian posters lack that sense of move-
ment of (what shall we call it?) carrying
forward. The beauty is spread out as an
accomplished fact, not as a lure to better,
things around the corner.
In the long inner room, hand-beaten
brasses and silver flash the light from
antique form and intricate design. Mildred
Creed’s spoons send a message to A. P.
Bowen's brass bowls. Mrs. Ashley Cooper
and Mrs. E. Spencer show Russian linen
gay with peasant embroideries. The frog
who would a-wooing go and all his progeny
have been moulded by Mrs. V. Eyre on bird
baths and fountain pieces, and even embel-
lish her beer-mugs—a happy hint. An
amethyst on a silver chain sends out a dozen
facets, and that is the sign of Rhoda Wager.
A collection of samplers, one done by Martha
Cash in 1802 and one by Mary Rose in
1829, are painstaking bits of cross-stitchery.
Near by is a big piece on which roses and
crosses and reindeer and other domestic
animals vegetate under the shadow of three
impressive imperial crowns.
Last Saturday the New Sydney Reper-
tory Society presented “Nine till Six,’’ a play
in which there are no men. The Adamlcss
Eden is a fashionable dressmaking shop in
the West End
of Londo 11,
and the play-
ers are the
proprietor
thereof and
her staff of
m a n n e quins
and workroom
girls. Th e
play was pro-
duced in Lon-
don by Autiol
Lee, a bril-
liant young
woman whom
returned Aus-
tralians have
met in the
home of the
Doughty lady,
once Eugenia
Stone. The
girl in the
picture. Bar-
bara Smith, played tlie part of Bridgit
Penarth, one of the new poor, a grand-daugh-
ter of an Earl, earning her living as a manne-
quin. Her introduction to the establishment
was the stone in the pool, and how far the
ripples spread makes three good acts. Bar-
bara, who started with the T.0.Y., has done
some notable work in Grand Guignol plays,
and is cast for Titania and Rosalind in future
productions. She is a daughter of Dr.
Harvey Smith, of Bellevue Hill, and an old
C. of E. Grammar girl.
Saturday was a full day. There was the
aerial pageant, which drew thousands to
Hargrave Park; there was the opening of
the yachting season at the R.S.Y.S. club-
house at Kirribilli; there was the opening
of the Peace Memorial Hospital at Manly.
And over everything a cold wind blew, so
that woman, in spite of the late October, dug
into her furs. In the evening, among other
flutters, there was a dance at Federal Trea-
surer Theodore’s house for Lewisham Hos-
pital. The grounds of the Kirribilli home
blazed with electrics; there was a supper
marquee on the lawn that looks towards
the harbor; the dining-room was cleared for
dancing, and in a corner of his own den
the host poured out hospitality—most of this
book-lined room was occupied with bridge-
players of the intensive order. The dancers
were butterflies with newly-fledged wings
and tailcoats, and there were a fortune-teller
and a host of young airmen, among them
the intrepid Moir, as added attractions. The
dance was run by a committee of pretty
young things who work for Lewisham, among
them the daughter of the house, Monica, in
poppy-spattered lime georgettes. Mrs. Theo-
dore supervised in black lace with Medici-
like collar and cuffs.
When its members entertained in honor
of the Games, the United Service Institu-
tion might have been a spit—and that
means the implement of cookery and has no
reference to the wind instruments within
the door. About the walls bunting lay limp
and wan, and there seemed a tendency on the
part of the ladies to specialise in tiered
frocks like double lamp-shades. The Games
were very friendly, she dancing with all,
clad in a frock of black lace of modest pre-
tensions. _ Aide Gifford, very sparkling, came
in his Air Force uniform, which is so lack-
ing in the pictorial that the trousers might
have been worn by Mr. Snodgrass. Miss
Crowdy swished in black satin, and his Ex.
played cards in the little room that houses
the Admiral’s chair from the old H.M.A.S.
Australia. The old-world berthe of Maltese
lace swinging on Miss Florence Steer’s
black frock caught the eye and the envy of
every woman. Enviable, too, were Mrs.
Hyman’s platinum laces and ostrich-feather
fan. She danced with her colonel, and Mrs-
Spain supported her colonel, who is deputy-
president of the institution, during the recep-
tion. The rooms were bursting with jollity
and uniforms of land, sea and air services;
there was a great proportion of tall girls,
and blondes in pink and blue were very
fashionable.
Women in every variety of hat and mixed-
season dressing turned up to hear Lady
Isaacs open the Exhibition of Arts and
Crafts on the one hot afternoon of last
week. The G.-G.'s lady showed neat ankles
under a black tailor-made, collared and cuffed
in white shorn lamb. Her small black hat
dangled an eye veil, and when Florence
Sulman handed her a bunch of nasturtiums,
and stood up beside her in a peacock-green
frock of graceful line, the color composition
was very satisfying. Captain Forrest and
the century-old samplers supplied a back-
ground. The Galleries were crowded, and
this Letter crashed into Thco Wunderlich,
just up for a holiday from his Island plan-
tation, the G.-G.’s two daughters in spring-
like raiment, and Mrs. Paxton, whose hus-
band comes from the U.S.A. to make some
official inquiries into our vegetables and
the plagues that afflict them.
The roll-up to the Nankin ball was a
tribute not only to the committee’s hard
work but to the publicity of Miss E. M.
Tildesley. The tickets had gone off: so well
that a week or two before the ball the sellers
put on the brakes, and the result was a ship
comfortably filled, but not bursting. There
were Japanese lanterns to give the decks a
touch of the exotic, and in the supper-room
Japanese tapestries and vases, lent by
the Teachers’ College and Professor Sadler.
Thea Proctor’s hand was felt in the lounge,
where she had charge of the flower decora-
tions. The Nankin is one of the new white
ships of the E. and A. line, and the dance
in aid of the unemployed boys of the Uni-
versity Settlement attracted the academic
bigwigs, from the Mungo MacCallums down.
One tall fair girl turned up in the divided
skirt, more dashingly called evening pyjamas.
Brisbane’s banner: —
Gay blossoms of red salvia and a glory of stocks
under a blue sky smiled on the Q.T.C. race meeting
ut Ascot. Mrs. Moore wore green and amber on a
black ground, with a black hat; Mrs. Arthur Clark
was in brown and beige, and Mrs. Aroo Hell in
black and turquoise. Amongst the throng were the
Cadell Garricks, the Cecil Palmers, the Isaac Moores,
Brigadier Ralph, Mrs. E. K. Tully, and the Gordon
Gaffs.
Dr. Phyllis Cilento presided at a meeting called
to promote the formation of a Mothercraft society.
Dr. A. J. Turner, another friend to the babies,
seconded her remarks. A building lias been offered
by the Brisbane and South Coast hospitals, but at
least £3OOO a year will be needed for maintenance.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart and Irene Longman were
amongst the speakers.
Lennon’s staged a benefit for the debt on the Father
Canali Memorial Church at Bulimba. None who
knew him will forget the saintly old Italian priest
who would make his round of the General hospital
wards every evening to ask if any sick person wanted
any little thing done, a letter posted or a message
given. He took no heed of creed or quality; his
mission was to serve and give. On one occasion,
when he was deep in argument on a ’bus, a woman
passenger said to him, “Father, your hat blew off
the ’bus at the last street.” He put his hand to his
white hair. “And so, indeed, it did,” he admitted
smilingly, and went on with his argument. Doubt-
less he reasoned some poor man would pick it up
and be glad of it.
The Authors and Artists’ Society had a members’
evening in the Women’s Club rooms, when Henry
Handel Richardson’s books were discussed by Mrs.
Champion, Mrs. E. Bulcock, Dr. Fry, Jack Matthieu
and others, and Marjorie Bulcock recited some of
Jim Devanney’s verses.
Roses and lilies decked St. Thomas’s, Toowong, for
the marriage of Alan Spence Hurwood and Gladys
Ethel Clothier. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory satin, with a liand-
’broidered Brussels-net veil. Mrs. S. W. Cramb was
matron of honor in shell-pink marocain. Two little
girls, M. Hammond and F. Cramb, ’maided in blue
Kate Greenaway frocks with blue poke bonnets. The
reception was at the bride’s home and the ’moon
is a motor tour.
Dr. Howard Morgan died this week, at 70. He
practised in Gympie in the roaring days, where he
married Eleanor Kennedy. Afterwards he held various
appointments in English and Scottish hospitals. In
1905 he returned to Brisbane; and commenced
practice at Wickham-terrace. His widow, a married
daughter and two sons survive him.
Dan O’Connor and Margaret Blair were joined in
matrimony in St. Ambrose’s, Kelvin Grove. The
Blair lady gave the bride away; she was in sky-
blue chiffon fleurette with a pink rose pattern, and
hat of ivory racello with blue flowers. Marie Fitz-
gerald ’maided in black and rose. The Blair lady
was in cinnamon satin beaute, with black and ivory
hat. The wedding tea was at Lennon’s.
The Mayoress had a bridge benefit for the Y.W.C.A.
and the crowd overflowed into the Mayor’s reception-
room. Delphiniums and coreopsis decorated. Mrs,
Greene was in burgundy with a shell-pink hat;
Mrs. W. H. Barnes, who assisted her, wore blue
crepe de Chine with a pattern in pastel poppies
and black hat.


Patents.
“APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR
DISTILLING SHALE.”
THE Proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15538/28 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TV TILL JACK COLWILL, of Devon, Eng-
** land, communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie. Home address.
AROLD DAGLEY GIBBS or D. SNOW-
DEN, of W.A.. lately in Sydney, write
W. M. Nairn, M.H.R., Canberra, for money
held.
EMMA GUEST (nee ALSTRUM),
DECEASED.
-piIE NEXT-OF-KIN of the aboveuamed,
who left London for Australia in 1885.
was married at Brewarrina, New South
Wales, to Charles Henry Guest (now
deceased) in 1888 and later came to Queens-
land, where she resided for about 30 years
prior to her death on 12tli March, 1931, are
requested to communicate, with Mayne and
Timbury, Solicitors, Roma, Queensland.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: AS HUSBANDS GO.
| C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: FLORODORA,
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Ca3t.
There have been sixty public functions
in forty days at Broken Hill, all
winners! What a town and what news-
papers it has! You should read that
leader, “Sacking the Boss,’’ in last
Saturday’s “Barrier Miner,” with the
warning to tail-twisting militants at the
end. This bright daily is the life of
the Far-west city and district.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] contral 500 for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] M[?]
Roses made a fine display at Moonee A al-
ley on Saturday. From chairman Alister
Clark’s garden at Bulla came hundreds that
scattered petals over the damask of the tables
for the official luncheon party, and red and
deep yellow blooms flourished in various
parts of the grounds. The luck of the Valley
was in, and no fault could be found with the
weather. Sunlight gleamed upon the two
gold cups that were placed on top of the
judge’s box.
There was a very large attendance. Hie
dressing was more end-of-winter than bcgin-
ning-of-spring in style, very few really light
frocks being on view. Ensemble, coats and
skirts and silken materials were generally
favored. Black-and-white effects retained
their popularity. There were black suits
cheered with a button-hole of artificial gar-
denia or a spray of fresh lily-of-the-valley,
and black georgette gowns with vests, collars
and cuffs of white. With spotted silken
frocks were worn black bowler hats bearing
jaunty white feathers. Black associated
with green was next in favor, after which
came brown of the cafe-au-lait and caramel
hues. Combinations of reds and greens were
also numerous. Small hats, black or white,
and flower-wreathed, made a first appear-
ance, the wearers usually sporting shoulder
sprays of real blooms to match. Premier
Hogan was there with his wife, whose crepe-
de-Cliiue frock was of scarlet ground-pat-
terned in biscuit and black and topped by a
black hat. The Chauvel lady allied a panama
hat with a pale green silk frock patterned in
yellow. Her sister Mrs. Buudock was in
red and white with a shady straw hat. The
McCormack lady, of Sydney, chose a black
tailored suit, and there were white wings on
her shiny straw hat. With her was her
daughter Mrs. J. Martin, whose dress was
brown. Mrs. Maxwell and her daughter
Esther were also in the Sydney contingent.
Other visitors were the Nurses Sleeman, of.
Portland, and Dr. King and Mrs. King, of
Mt. Gambier (S.A.). Mrs. W. Rogers Thom-
son wore, with her brown and white pat-
terned crepe-de-Chine gown a lacquered
straw hat, to which clung 'a harmonising
brown plume. Valerie Purves featured one
of the new knitted white berets with her
hydrangea-blue suit. Mrs. E. Poolman was
smartly turned out in light grey summer
tweed with a blending hat, and her daughter
Audrey was all in garnet-red. Marie Goll
contrasted a jade-tinted coat with a black
skirt, and there was a matching feather in
her straw hat. White coats with black
skirts were much in evidence. Mary Winter
Irving, recently returned from foreign parts,
.sported a choker of large steel-colored beads.
Among those who selected magpie hues were
Mrs. Ben Chaffey, Mrs. N. Robertson, Mrs.
Len Buxton, Mrs. Percy Blackbourn and
Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie.
Glorious weather favored the Battle of
Flowers, organised to swell the Mayor’s Fund.
Bands and decorated cars gave the town an
air of gaiety, and youth entered heartily into
the business of throwing rose-petals and con-
fetti. An accommodating young couple made
their wedding a show for the Town Hall
stage to help the cause. The bride wore
white georgette, tulle and orange buds, and
had a retinue of ’maids and trainbearers.
The bridal finery was a gift to the newly-
weds, who also got a fortnight’s honeymoon
trip out of their enterprise.
A prelude to the floral carnival for the
Lud Mayor’s fund was a ball at the Town
Hall. The crowning of the Queen of Flowers
for the procession and revels of the next
afternoon was an event of the evening.
Mervyn Pitt, a tall, good-looking blonde, was
chosen. Preceded by some flower maidens,
half a dozen girls, selected from 17 who
competed, trod the crimson carpet on their
way to the throne on the stage that was
banked with greenery, and had an outcrop
of feathery pink and white schizanthus in
the foreground. The Mayoress, who was in
black georgette, carried a posy of crimson
carnations. The lion. secs, were Nancy
Hewlett, over whose black satin frock was
a net coat, sprinkled with jet sequins, and
Betty Barrett, whose filmy black lace gown
was topped with a wee coat of ecru lace.
Among the dancers were Airs. W. H. Lewis,
Airs. T. Luxton, Airs. 11. J. Alanson and
her daughter Alyrtle, Airs. J. B. Carnegie,
Airs. Sidney Alyer, in white satin with a
touch of lime color on the corsage; Airs.
Ramsay, in silk chiffon patterned in a
Japanese maple design of green and autumn
tints; Beverley Jackson, with a red velvet
coat over her white satin gown; Audrey
Clapperton, and Nancy Syme, in powder
blue. Pupils of Minnie Everett performed
classic dances.
Seven other just-grown-up maidens made
their debut at Dorota Flatau’s coming-out
dance, which was mostly attended by young
people. Airs. Rex Flatau staged the party
at her home at South Yarra, and wore black
satin with white gardenias climbing over
one shoulder. White satin that melted into
a deep flounce of tulle was worn by her
daughter, who added a touch of color with
a spray of mauve orchids. The other buds
were Elizabeth and Tempo, daughters of
Airs. Norman Falkiner, the one in white-
satin and tin l other in white chiffon with
a bolero of clierry-hued ninon; Betty Alel-
ville, in soft pink satin; Beth Saul,'Eliza-
beth Dutton Green, Alay Aliddows and Alar-
garot Neil Smith.
Tulips and other blossoms gave a spring-
time air to a dance at the Embassy,
engineered by the Southern Districts’ Auxili-
ary of St. Vincent’s Hospital. Heading the
organising committee were the president. Aliss
Iv. Esmonde, in white satin ; Aliss AI. Fitz-
patrick, hon. sec., who wore black taffeta
and lace: Aliss AI. Parker, assistant sec.,
who favored white georgette, and the hon.
treas., Miss M. Delahay, whose draperies
were of flame color.
The marriage of George, son of the E. W.
Hawkers, of Clare, South Australia, and
Stella, elder daughter of Mrs. F. P. Fether-
stonhaugh, of Kew, was an evening affair.
Chiffon of tourmaline pink tint was worn
by the bride, topped by a lovely veil of old
lace. Jean Wetherby, of Mortlake, and Car-
line Reid, of Bothwell, of the Apple Isle,
provided effective contrast in their frocks of
forget-me-not blue organdie and wreaths of
roses. The after-reception was held at the
Victoria League Club.
Another wedding on the same evening was
that of Constance, third daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. E. Sweetman, of the Uni., to Dr. Ken-
neth Hardy, elder son of Brigadier-General
and Mrs. C. H. W. Hardy, of Ballarat. Two
bridesmaids arrayed in leaf-green chiffon
attended the bride, who wore white satin, to
which were allied a veil of Limerick lace
and bouquet of water-lilies.
News reaches the family of another inter-
esting wedding overseas —Rex Hylton, for
some time super, of the Children’s Hospital
here, has been married in Stockholm to Norah
Alquist, grand-daughter of the great Swede
who, having built up a vast business in
explosives, devoted part of his fortune to
Peace and other prizes. Ilex, now practis-
ing in Londou, is a son of Cyril Hylton,
formerly of Broken Hill and before that of
Ballarat; Brig.-General Williams, of the
“Herald” board, is his uncle.
A change of name was made at the St.
Ivilda Synagogue by Iris, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. Rothstadt; her lord is
Dr. Clifford Rosenfield, son of Dr. and Mrs.
It. L. Rosenfield, Satin of deep parchment
hue was worn by the bride, and her tulle
veil was attached to a cap embroidered in
pink crystal. The one ’maid wore a dainty
frock of mushroom-pink lace, and her halo
wreath was of lace of the same shade. The
after-reception took place at No. 9.
A dinner at the Oriental followed the wed-
ding of Doreen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. S. Busse, and Francis Henry Martin.
White satin, beautifully cut, surmounted by
a tulle veil, was worn by the bride, who car-
ried a sheaf of arum-lilies. Two ’maids
attended in frilled chiffon frocks of nattier
shade and matching felt hats, their posies
being of pink roses.
White chiffon and tulle graced Laura,
daughter of Mrs. A. 0. Watson, of South
Yarra, when she was linked to Dr. Robert
Cooper, younger son of Mrs. C. Cooper, of
Benalla, at St. John’s, Toorak. Three
’maids attended her in pale green eyelet-
embroidered frocks and drooping straw hats.
The Headmistresses’ Association, led by
Miss Gilman Jones, organised a new sort of
fair at the Homecraft Hostel Jit Malvern.
Each booth sold wares used in living-room,
kitchen, bathroom and other apartments of
a cottage. Miss Jones and some girls from
Merton Hall purveyed refreshments, served
in tin' dining-room. Beautiful linen of all
kinds was available for bedrooms; and there
were plants and flowers in a fernery. Mrs.
,T. G. Latham launched the bazaar.
Pictured here by Dickinson-Monteath is
Carrie Cairnduff, who is the street singer
Niehette in “The Love Stop" at the
King’s Theatre. Miss Cairnduff hails from
Kalgoorlie, and came to Melbourne to con-
tin u e her
p ia.no forte
studies at the
Uni. Con. un-
de r Edward
G o 11. After
acquiring the
L.A.B. degree
and diploma
she became a
pupil of Les-
lie Middleton,
and qualified
for a diploma
in singing.
Lately with
violinist
Edouard Lam-
h e r t, a n d
John Simons
at. the piano,
she helped to
provide an in-
teresting reci-
tal. Listeners-in have heard her voice often
on the air, and she has made appearances
in oratorio and opera.
The Music Teachers’ Association offered
a greeting hand to Balokovic and his wife
at Kelvin Hall. President Harold Elvins,
lion. sec. C. M. Wallis and Madame Ashton
did the honors, the lady passing over an
armful of tulips to Madame Balokovic, who
was in black with a crimson brocade wrap.
The evening was spent in chat, with intervals
of song provided by Muriel Cheek, with Miss
Davis at the piano.
Violinist Zlatko Balokovic and his wife
were the guests of the Old Students’ Asso-
ciation of the Uni. Con. Mr. and Mrs.
Sutton Crow and Winifred Mitchell gave
greeting to the visitors, who were accom-
panied by Ivjell Fleetwood, Mr. and Mrs.
Claude Kingston and Miss S. Kingston.
Harold Elvins played pieces by Debussy and
Cyril Scott. Amongst those there were Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Miss Deakiu, Mr.
and Mrs. 11. Spry, Mr. Bainbridge, Mrs. W.
Mortill. several of the staff of the Con. and
many students.
Mrs. William Macleod, of Mcsman, is the
guest of Dr. and Mrs. F. Apperly. Her
hostess staged an afternoon gathering to
enable Mrs. Macleod to meet old friends
and make some new ones.
Mrs. C. V. Janes (Dr. Irene Sebire), who
with her husband is taking up residence in
Sydney, and who has been attached to the
clinical section of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital for some years, was farewelled by
the executive committee at Dr. Georgina-
Sweet’s flat at Cliveden Mansions. There
were tea, a gift for the departing guest and
a flood of good wishes.
A Toorak hostess entertained a Sydney
visitor. As the guest didn’t bridge she had
arranged a little theatre party. After dinner
she produced the tickets, and when the
visitor saw them he swallowed hard and
then smiled bravely. They were for one of
the leading picture palaces. The Sydney
man is a film censor who annually inspects
over a million feet of celluloid.
Associates of the Royal Golf Club boiled
the kettle for a farewell cup with Dorothy,
daughter of Dr. C. H'. Mollison, of South
Yarra, who is off to Fiji to marry Basil
Field, of Lautoka. Mrs. Percy Jennings,
president, hostessed the gathering and pre-
sented the bride-elect with a travelling clock.
Mrs. Alex. Russell, Mona MacLeod and
Shirley Tolliurst were there.
There was a bridge party at St. Cath-
erine’s Girls’ School, Toorak, in aid of the
sports fund, and there were sales of flowers
as a side-line. The pupils served tea and
performed folk dances on the lawn.
Mrs. Clive Baillieu and her daughter June
packed their travelling trunks and set off to
England during the week. They will join
Mary Baillieu, who has been abroad for a
year and is now in London.
So much success attended the first pre-
sentation of “The Love Step,” the musical
comedy of which Mrs. Harold Clapp wrote
the words and Alaric Howitt furnished
the mnsi o,
that M r s.
,Clapp is re-
peating tli e
show for
seven nights
(con eluding
to-nigh t)
in the inter-
ests of vari-
ous charities.
The Lud May-
or’s fund bene-
fited by the
first night’s
p e rformance,
and each even-
ing is ear-
marked for
some different
cause. In its
original form
the piece was
a little more
than half the
programme; now it. is a full-time enter-
tainment. A market-square scene has
been added to the first act, and there
are several new songs and dances. The
dressing is the very last whisper of
fashion; the pyjamaed gown and back-
less styles are features. The ballet-girls
wear georgette dresses long and full, draped
to one side to camouflage the very wide
divided skirts beneath. Four are in lettuce
green and four in the shade of the not-
quite-ripe persimmon. Lynette Dickenson
sports a flounced gown of vivid-green
chiffon that has eci'u lace about the
corsage, and her bowler hat and waving
ostrich feather are of the same tint. Roma
Smith’s filmy attire is lime-color traced
with a fern pattern in brown, the outfit
being topped by a bolero jacket and straw
bat, also brown. Carrie Cairnduff sheds the
humble apparel of the street singer for a
wedding gown of silver lame with an im-
mense train. Zoo (toff, as a temperamental
actress, has green and silver attire, begin-
ning with trouserettes of silver lame veiled
in emerald chiffon. Brocade of the two
colors is used in the upper portion of tin'
backless evening gown, and there! is a long
coat of georgette with a great collar of
amber and brown fur. Harold Clapp’s
daughter Noel wears a suit of black satin
pyjamas and a white chiffon frock, about
which white feather trimming wanders in
snake-like fashion. The picture of Alaric
Ilowitt is by Dickinson-Monteatli.
In the first-night audience of “The Love
Step’’ at the King’s, were Mrs. George Chirn-
side, in a rose-patterned gold lame coat, who
occupied a box with Mrs. Harry Whiting
and some other folk: the Robert Bests and
their daughter Roberta; Rear-Admiral Hyde
and his wife; Mrs. R. G. Casey; Mrs. Henry
Allport, of Tasmania; and Mrs. Ainslie and
Beryl. Mrs. Colin Fraser, Mrs. Dermot
Casey. Mrs. J. W. Chadwick and Miss L.
Armytage were amongst those who directed
sales.
A shot from Adelaide
The Navy has arrived, and we have entered upon
a week full of social functions. The Mayoress
(Mrs. C. R. .T. Glover) arranged an at-home for
Commander Holbrook and officers, and to the
Children’s Hospital ball in the Freemason’s Hall
naval men and the South African cricketers have
been invited.
On behalf of the Royal Institute for the Blind,
a golf gymkhana was held at Seaton. His Ex. and
Lady Hore-Ruthven attended, and took part in all
the stunts.
Mr. Fred Jones, of Rose Park, has endowed a
cot in the Children’s Hospital in memory of his
wife.
Some 700 people were present at the ball at
the Palais Royal arranged by the combined com-
mittees of the numerous dance clubs in aid of
funds for Kuitpo Colony. The Mayoress and Mrs.
Lionel Hill were among those present. Mdlle.
Marcell e Berardi and Mr. Mostyn Skinner, who are
appearing in Jack Fewster’s revue “Better Times”
at the Theatre Royal, contributed to the programme,
and R. Shorthose and pupils gave an acrobatic act.
The Society of Arts has been en fete. First there
was a conversazione to celebrate the society’s 75th
birthday, for which Mrs. Howie, wife of the presi-
dent, made a three-tier cake; 75 candles were
lighted by all the old members present, while Mr.
H. E. Fuller (secretary) cut the cake. On a later
evening the members held a fancy dress ball in
the society’s gallery. About 70 were present, but
only a few ventured in fancy costume.
Mrs. H. B. Wynyard. has arrived with her son
from England, and is the guest of her sister, Mrs.
Walter Duncan, at Park-terrace, Parkside.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson arranged for Miss
Lisette Kehlhagen to hold a private exhibition of
her pictures—oil and water-color landscapes and
still-lifes—at Urrbrae; hung in the small gallery
the work was seen to advantage. The hostess and
the artist received the guests in ihe lounge; after-
noon-tea was served in the dining-room, where
there were lovely roses in profusion.
Tassie’s flight:—
The Aero Club ran a most successful dance in the
Masonic Hall, Launceston, with a big model ’plane
hanging from the middle of the ceiling. Smaller
’planes dangled from other parts of the roof, and
models of Moths on pedestals ornamented the corners
of the hall. Mrs. John Ramsay, Mrs. Gordon Fysh
and Mrs. Sinclair Thyne were responsible for the
supper decorations and W. McGowan for the origin-
alities of the ballroom. The committee talk of
making it an annual affair.
There was a biting wind on the opening day of
the Hobart Turf Club’s races at Elwick, so the
attendance was thin, and wintry garments were all
the wear. But the fields were good, by way of
some solid compensation for the weather. In the
small crowd one saw the Fred Grants, Mrs. Angus
Butler, the James Sprents, Mrs. Geoff Chapman, Dr.
and Mrs. Crowther, Mrs. W. Wolfhagen, Dr. and
Mrs. Gaha, the Norman Fergusons and the H. C.
Ikinses.
Mollie, eldest of the M. C. Symmons's trio of
pretty daughters, took the plunge at St. John’s,
Launceston, with A. H. Mayhead, Rev. D. Ross-
Hewton doing the splicing. The bride’s frock was
of dead-white satin, tightly moulded to the knees,
then flaring into a very long train. Richelieu work
made a decoration at neck and wrists. The embroi-
dered tulle veil fell from beneath a little cap of
satin with clusters of orange blossom at each side.
Sisters Peggy and Audrey ’maided in shell-pink satin
frocks with' little bolero coats and shell-pink felt
hats.
One of the cheeriest festivities held in Launceston
during Show week was the Old Launcestonians’ ball
at the Albert Hall. The decorations were carried
out in two shades of yellow—always a safe color
scheme under electric light. Supper tables sported
pink apple blossom, flowering currant, and low
bowls of polyanthus.
Violet Mace, who with Miss Poynter has been
working at beautiful pottery in their studio in Both-
well, left by the Orsova for a trip to the Cold
Country in search of new ideas.
Mrs. Alan Miller has been invited to broadcast her
short talks on law which she has been giving here
from stations in Melbourne and Sydney. She leaves
the Speck early next month.
Westralia’s wad: —
Guida, the auburn-headed second daughter of the
J. L. B. Weir couple, was married to Ray Cockburn
in the Ross Memorial Church. The bridal garment,
of ivory georgettes, was ornamented with gold and
silver traceries in a leaf design. The veil, worn off
the face, was of Brussels lace, and the bride carried
all white flowers. Zoe Weir, Audrey Thiel and
Dorothy Solomon, wearing pale gold frocks and
big lacy-brimmed gold hats, carried bouquets of
deep cream roses up the aisle. Rejoicings were at
the Claremont home of the bride’s parents.
Mary Henn, who is paying a visit to the land
of her childhood, was guest of honor at a bridge
party hostessed by Edith Sanderson. Marvellous
roses, for which Guildford gardens are famous,
radiated their beauty and perfume in the drawing-
room. Edith’s frock was a medley of red lace and
georgettes; Mary’s peach-pink had silver veining
upon the chenille corsage.
The Ivylie Music Club, having outgrown Mrs.
Vincent’s music-room, now holds its at-homes in the
Karrakatta Club. For the October afternoon a
great bowl of clarkias melted into a blue mist
upon the stage, and lupins bloomed upon the small
tables. Mrs. Archie Burt and Miss Hamilton were
kept busy as bees superintending afternoon-tea.
Revel’s Trio in A minor, performed by Doreen Bray,
David Powell and Valdemar Robertson, received a
tremendous ovation. Ariel Seeligson played piano
solos, Eileen Johns sang, Nora Coalstad and violinist
Leo Chase rendered the first two movements of
the Cesar Franck Sonata in A major, and Debussy
pianoforte duets were contributed by Doreen Bray
and Keith Marshall.
A toll gate demanding Is. per ear operated on
the opening day of National Park. Beyond the Log
Cabin the new drive deviates from the York-road
curling through four miles of bush scenery. A
rock pool seduced many swimmers into its cool
depths.
Prof. Hcinze, Henri Penn and Harold Wylde were
entertained by the Uni. music society. The Physics
lecture-room at the Irwin-street shop was frisky
with Chinese lanterns and palms. President Zipali
Feldman, in carnation-pink taffetas, did the wel-
coming. Prof. Heinze reserved part of his speech
for praise of the versatile talents of Miss Feldman.
He and Mr. Penn generously displayed their mastery
of piano and violin during the second part of the
programme.


K e , e p
a clear
MINDandBODY
m
yr
A
Y‘
’OU cannot be
perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and mental
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential to health.
Keep , your intestinal tract cle^n ; and i
healthy, with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
no unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold oply by
Chemists'
I
I
WHEN ITS AN...
fc
EARLY morning or late night —in fair weather or foul —
the antics of the thermometer notwithstanding— yog
want action from your starter ©And that’s what you get
when you have an Exide in your car — action! Tremendous
reserve power is built into every Exide the result of
nearly half a century of battery manufacturing experience.
©Exide users have a feeling of satisfaction and assurance
because they know that "When it’s an Exide you start."
Exide Batteries o r e made in Australia.
♦
The Long Life Battery
fOR CARS. RADIO .ml HOMF IK.HTING
OBTAINABLE FROM: Brisbane —Exide Battery Service (Q.),
T,td • Svdnev— Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and
Co ' ’ Ltd ) ; Melbourne—A. .P. - Sutherland ; -Adelaide—,
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.; Perth—M' J. ’Bateman, Ltd.;
' Hobart-—-Medlir.rst and' Sons Pty. r , Ltd. ■ .
025
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Snake-bite.
J. ,J. HARDIE TELLS OF A QUEER MYSTERY OF THE HAWKESBURY
HIGH up on the crest of the rocky,
scrub-clad hill that dominated the
dark length of the narrow inlet, the
fringe of bushes parted cautiously. A face
appeared in the gap; tense, sharpened fea-
tures under a straggling thatch of sandy
hair peered carefully forth, pale eyes flicker-
ing with an intent that precluded apprecia-
tion of the glorious panorama of rugged
hills and peaceful water.
Away in the blue hazy distance the
liawkesbury glinted in the sunlight whence
it thrust a long, sinuous arm westward be-
tween the dark Kuringai hills. Grey-green
bouldered slopes hung menacingly on either
hand, grudging its passage, and the water of
the narrow fiord caught and reflected their
grim, relentless spirit in its leaden surface.
Then, where the big hill raised its forbidding
bulk to bar the adventuring arm, Nature had
relented and drawn back the encircling lulls
a little, permitting the arrested fist to
stretch its battered knuckles and thrust
exploring fingers to form the coves that in-
dent the sheltered reach of Refuge Bay.
A lone speck broke the face of the dark
water like a solitary fly on a long strip of
plate glass, and the eyes of the watcher nar-
rowed on the tiny boat and its occupants.
Were they merely fishing, or were they
A shadow passed over the nondescript fea-
tures, and a faint shiver caught at his
narrow frame.
Half an hour passed in a silence broken
only by vague little rustlings in the grass
arid dead leaves, and the steady soporific
tinkle of the hidden waterfall in its final
leap to the silver sand of the little beach below.
The man relaxed with cautious reluctance
and slowly surrendered liis lean limbs to
the languorous warmth of the sun. His
half-closed eyes wandered lazily over the
misty blue outlines of dark-wooded hill and
sombre peaceful water stretching in hazy
mystery toward the distant rim of the.
Pacific. Then’ lie wriggled idly back on his
stomach and stretched out, elbows digging
into the fragrant smelling earth, cupped
hands .supporting the chin with its bristle
of light sandy beard.
A lizard scuttered across a rock and came
to a sudden halt on a fallen branch within
a foot of the immobile figure, undecided
whether to flick to safety or continue along
Ihe branch. The man’s lazy eyes—neither
grey nor green, but of that indeterminate
hue, that may be either on occasions—lin-
gered on the smooth shining body of the
lizard, and the faint terminals of liis sandy
eyebrows crinkled in a smile.
“It’s all right, son ! 1 won’t eat yon.”
TAider the slow smile the face lost a
touch of the absolute common place that in-
vested it. The nondescript features were
thrown together in a composite whole that
may be seen in any crowded city street at
any time —colorless, insignificant.
“Great institution, the sun,” he addressed
the basking lizard in a lazy whimsical voice.
“Can you believe that there are fools who
spend their lives in dark, smelly offices, breath-
ing mouldy, dead air—always bustling—living
to the tick of a dictator with a silly round face
arid two hands eternally egging them on?”
The lizard did not appear a bit impressed.
“Every morning they get up with a rush,
bolt their breakfast and rush for a train,
wear out the eyes God gave them to see
Life with, poring over figures or books until
the autocrat they call a clock releases them.
Then home again, when the sun is down or
all the goodness has gone out of him—and
perhaps another rush to some dark, stuffy
theatre crammed with uncomfortable.humans
breathing foul, second-hand air— : and they
call that Amusement. Amusement!. I ask
you! Then another rush for tram or train
and bed—in a close box of a room. A spell
of unconsciousness till the tyrant buzzes
them back to the treadmill!” He laughed
—a thin, incredulous laugh—and the lizard
stiffened for flight.
“And I was one of the poor slaves, son!
Nearly thirty years of it. Thought I was
leading a hell of a fine life —at times. Igno-
rant as a bat! Never knew I was alive till
accident —or my own damn foolishness-
forced this on me. Resurrection! That's
what it is! I’m twenty years younger after
a mouth of it!” He laughed exultantly,
rocking on his elbows. The lizard, thor-
oughly alarmed, whipped round like a flash
and a scuffling in the dry leaves advertised
his rapid retreat.
The sun climbed higher and higher, sten-
cilling the thin tracery of the scraggy leaves
across the sallow features, moving the pat-
tern imperceptibly but ceaselessly till the
eyes—mere slits —blinked unprotected in the
glare. The man sat up and stretched his
arms luxuriously ; then, brushing the clinging
twigs and dust from the torn khaki shirt
with a perfunctory hand, he rose slowly to
his feet, and with a glance at the sun
threaded his leisurely way inland.
Down a steep slope, timbered with gum
and ironbark, through a breast-high tangle
of undergrowth and out into a clearing;
round the sheer, bulging shoulder of a bill
and across a gully littered with huge lime-
stone boulders. There was no path, no
indication that the foot of man had ever
before trodden these primeval hills; yet the
man forged steadily along absorbed in‘the
contemplation of his latest problem, his
thoughts revolving round its amorphous
mass, assailing it with rapier-like ideas that
flashed out and returned as quickly, bent
or blunted, leaving the choosing of his path
to some latent homing instinct.
Suddenly he halted and froze immobile,
listening intently with head to one side
and a narrowing of fear in the eyes..
“Help! He-clp /”
The man turned cautiously, scanning-the
rough hillside in the direction off the sound.
The scrub grew thickly there, and a 1 surge
of conflicting emotions stayed 'him. The
voice belonged to a man—not ’ merely the
random call of. someone lost, but a despe-
rate appeal for immediate succor.
Again- the call wailed out. and L liis irre-
solution departed. He turned in the direc-
tion of the voice and plunged into the dense
tangle of undergrowth. A dry -gully lay
before him; he laid a- course up * the oppo-
site side and worked steadily across, reso-
lutely fighting the voice within that'* clamored
at him to turn back. The cry sounded again
further away, and the man hurried, a Then
he sighted a dark form ahead, and caution
halted him behind the trunk of an ironbark.
The man sat rocking pitifully to and fro
in a little clearing. He was in his shirt-
sleeves, and one hand grasped the left fore-
arm. Even at the distance the watcher
could sec the blood streaking the white arm;
but suspicion held him behind the tree. That
pallid arm'could only belong to an inveter-
ate city-dweller—no lover of the sun—and
the inward voice rose high in warning. He
scrutinised the figure on the rock bending
over his bloody arm; then with a sigh of
resignation he stepped boldly into the open.
The man started up, then subsided weakly
as the other approached. He was big and
heavily built, with black hair and full mous-
tache and a pasty white skin. He was still
whimpering brokenly as the little man halted
in front of him.
. “What’s up?”
“Snake bit me.” A short, stumpy finger
mutely indicated a point half-way up the
forearm, where the blood oozed slowly from
shallow knife-slashes.
The sandy features still retained a shade
of doubt. “What sort of snake?” he demanded.
“Black snake—with a red belly.”
The little man was closely examining the
arm A rough tourniquet had been fixed
above the elbow, but the arm was crusted
with coagulated blood and matted black nair.
“Got any snake-bite cure —any perman-
ganate?” The dark man’s voice was sup-
plicating—almost snivelling. .
The little man hesitated, eyeing the other
distrustfully. Then he turned abruptly on
his heel. “Wait here aud 111 get some..
The big man rose eagerly- and followed
the departing figure. ( “No, I’ll come. We
can’t get it too soon.’
The sandy one turned with a snarl. Wait
here, I tell you!”
“But”
“Wait here!”
The big man sank weakly back. lhe
other glared menacingly at him, then swung
round and strode swiftly upliill, through the
leafy canopy of box and . ironbark. He
skirted the sheer cliff guarding the fiat top
of the hill, aud where it turned sharply to
the left threw a quick glance backwards
before slipping round the corner. A chimp
of thick, dark bushes grew up to the face
of the cliff, and into these lie plunged un-
hesitatingly. , , ,
A crashing of bushes heralded his re-
appearance, a small bottle, in one hand, as,
he swiftly threaded his ,way back along the
tortuous track to the stricken man.
.■ “Barden!” > > ' . . „ „ .
In the act of slipping . round - the - sharp
angle of the cliff, the little mail spun quickly,
then stopped dead at the harsh challenge..
The pale.eyes.goggled, the mouth sagged— ,
hot .at the black In fizzle of, the automatic but
at the triumphant, leering Smile on the full red
lips that,.the. black moustache could not hide.
“Who—who arc you?” . * ’ '
The big dark man, laughed grimly. Dev-
lin’s - my name. ' Detcctiye-sergcaut Dovlin.
He rolled the name lovingly; then-the voice
hardened. “Put ’em up, 1 Barden !
“B-but your arm —the snake-bite .
The detective broke into a taunting laugh.
“Snake-bite me foot! I could have taken
you .yesterday, Barden,' but I wanted to hud
your camp. - Where’s the cash you cleared from
, Melbourne f with ?*- Come on—out with it!
The ,slight..-form -sagged i despondently and
offered'no resistance as* the burly figure ran
a * searching* hand over him with negligible
result.. A 1 pair "of handcuffs snapped on The
thin.^wrists■’arid'the-muzzle of . in
liis ribs urged him to a faltering pace. '
.• “Come' on. • We’ll have a look through
yonrvho-tel—and,,no.* funny, business !”
They before the screen of bushes,
and after-a'moment’s hesitation the detec-
tive'.removed cone .handcuff,passed the pri-
soner’s arms* round the trunk of a tree and
{ clipped Hhe:'bracelet back in, position.
- “You wait.here till I .have a look round.
< Tlie clumsy body-crashed .noisily through
the thicket, gazed- suspiciously at the nar-
row entrance under the overhanging rock,
then with automatic questing ahead he
crawled cautiously into the spacious cave
opening beyond.
sS t :!:
The lowering black features scowled down
at the silent, dejected figure, clasping the
ironbark between manacled arms. “Where s
the dough? Come on—l’m going to get it
one way or another, and the sooner you
loosen up the better for yourself. Where’d
you plant it?” A beefy hand gripped the
thin bowed shoulder.
The sandy head shook sadly. “You re too
late —the money’s gone.”
The heavy features advanced menacingly
to within a foot of the prisoner’s face, now-
lined and old. “Gone where?”
“Spent. Hong before I cleared out.’
Devlin swallowed hard, and the black eyes
narrowed vindictively. “Oh. is that the way
of it? Well, we’ll see about that later.
Gome on down to the boat.”
The little procession wound its way along
the rock-clad hillside in a profound silence.
The detective had pocketed his weapon ; his
big feet were more at home on asphalt than
on a broken slope, and both hands were
needed to aid his progress.
The bowed little figure in front oozed
utter dejection. The sun shone just as
luxuriantly as when he had eulogised it to
his lizard audience a few hours before, but
now it filtered on him through an opaque veil
of deep despondency. The sun-bathed land'
scape was dull and grey and unreal. His
sun was in eclipse. He trudged uncarmgly.
hopeless grey eyes on the ground filled witn
a dull resentful pain at the black treachery
of his capture.
What was the penalty for embezzlement .'
He hadn’t taken so much. And just when
he had discovered Life —the Sun they
would shut him up in a cold bare cell where
the warm rays would never reach him. It
was good night! , .
Suddenly on the edge of the scrub the
little man paused in his lagging stride, then
leapt wildly forward as the brown miake
in liis path raised a menacing head, lhe
lumbering detective plunged forward at las
impulsive start, fumbling for liis automatic.
“Hi”
The rasping command tailed oft and rose
in a wild shriek, while the little man ran
stooping through the screen of bushes with
new life in . his steps. .
He paused, panting as the sharp, vindic-
tive reports of the automatic floated to him
above the fear-laden shrieks of the detective,
then grinned comfortably—the bullets were
not coming liis way.
lie; reached the edge of the patch of scrub.
On one side lay the steep descent to the
waters of the bay. To retreat under cover lie
finish.retrace bis steps and pass within fifty
yards of the detective. He would risk it.
There* were' no nidre shots, but the pitiful,
beseeching wailsj interspersed with bursts ot
horrible blasphemy, still rent the air. He
halted his cautious advance, clinging to
the deeply corrugated bark as lie peered
round the tree. , . ,
In a little clearing the detective rocked
pitifully to and fro, plucking with one hand
at the bare white leg protruding from the
torn trousers.' Gone was the heavy bravado;
the overbearing voice was a fear-stricken wail.
The big balloon of self-esteem had collapsed,
i The little man glared on his late captor
with a malicious joy in liis pale eyes. His
tongue flickered restlessly over, the thin lips
as the quavering wail came to his ears.
“Barden!, Barden! . Come back! lin
dying!”. . .
The sandy head turned contemptuously
away, and the .'.stooping figure crawled cau-
tiously up the slope. A grim satisfaction
wreathed the' sallow face. Fate had been
kind to ,him.’ In a few hours Devlin would
be dead—liis - evidence with him. freedom
was in sight. The sun shone again.
A handcuffed wrist brushed the bulging
outline off a pocket —the permanganate bottle !
He came to a .sudden halt, his brows fur-
rowed, the thin face clouding. He lowered
himself slowly, mechanically, to a rock and
sat staring at the manacled hands thrust
out in front of him, while his tortured
features registered the relentless passage of
liis thoughts. _ ..
Was he free, after all? It was not Devlm
who wanted him—it was the Haw ! He had
got rid of the detective; but the steel bands
still shackled his wrists —reminding him—
fettering his thoughts—his mental, as well
as his physical freedom. There was no
escape this way. He would get a year a
century in the dark. But if Devlin died !
As in a trance the forlorn little figure rose
slowly erect, the nondescript features grey
and set. The pale eyes that were neither grey
nor green lifted falteringly to the westering
sun in a long look of dumb farewell. Then
he turned abruptly. Gradually the dead
hopeless steps firmed, echoing the spirit ot
bis decision as he tramped back to the clear-
ing where the pitiful wreck of a man rocked
to and fro, dying a coward’s* many deaths
as the poison’s deadly fingers reached higher
and higher.


mr
“Not a bite
in a bottle
...McCallunis
for me every
timef P
(TTCaltums
(fytfediwi
Scots (Ohiskv
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright and Co., Adelaide.
Lionel Samson and Son, Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros, and Co., Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd., Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries, Ltd., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s 9 feulleiCa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin**
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME ...
address
RATESs Australia —l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/»
Overseas —l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
»
6
,s®
<*•
k-’
. * * .•* , • *
~*•
•* •••'
••’ *yV§*
c*'


w,
HY BE SATISFIED WITH
SECOND CHOICE ?
SOULJ
I will buy only $ leading
make of tyre!
The leading tyre in the world—in quality, value and sales —is the Goodyear Tyre*
This is not a boast; simply a statement of fact.
As for the quality, we ask you to examine that for yourself, at any Goodyear
dealer’s, through the tests briefly indicated on this page.
As for the value, Goodyear Tyres, despite their superiorities,* cost no more than
others.
As for the sales, “more people ride on Goodyear Tyres than on any other make,
and in both total and annual production Goodyear has made and is making more
tyres —MILLIONS MORE! —than any other manufacturer in the world!
Why be satisfied with second-choice?
Why not resolve now to reap the benefits of
make of tyre!”
saying, U I will buy only leading
*■ TW O REASONS
WHY GOODYEAR IS THE
LEADING TYRE.
The famous Goodyear All-
Weather Tread is superior in
traction. Note how the deep-cut
tight-gripping blocks are placed
in the centre of the tread, where
they belong. Press the palm of
your hand upon this tread and
feel how the blocks grip and
pinch the flesh. This illustrates
the All-Weather Tread’s
hold-fast action on city
streets or country roads.
1
m
IluX'tiJi
w,
W
0*
m
i
m
i
m
fi
I
I
m
r t
i
i
/
i»
Vi !f‘l
IllUl
f
L
2
The Goodyear Super twist
Cord Carcass is superior
in vitality and long life.
Under continued flexing or
sudden road-shock, where ordin-
ary cords fatigue or snap, the
extra-elastic Supertwist Cords
stretch and recover, like rubber
bands. Ask your Goodyear
Dealer to show you on his cord-
testing machine the extra stretch
—up to 61% greater — of Super-
twist Cord over the cord used
in other tyres.
