

POINT
,
«P rZml
■m.
■ ■
a
i
■■lltl
—i
■ . I*%®* Jfl
:: : : : :i;:
•S*> - " . , • '
HUH
. . •-“Sjjttj
, H -
y
I
* SUP* 11 '' 11 """ -r *
■ gSaMi :
btMmmWWi
itiiMHl
J«
■
> i jteKJCm*.
: : .--■ ■'
f •; *
IviT >
■MEI
I* gM
* <xr
■airiEgg--.
v.
c Zl^Sr^v
■ ■ ■ '"'
S ~ •' •
■Mr
...
wmmmm
m
A
J
-iW f ,iv<f
l te !^aa r : ‘ ' ••• J
; "■ ■ if"
;
' ■: :::•;.
VtvpA:
::
MM
" ■ £-I*,
ffil
'■’ £:P :> ; "
■H I
/ J
M
m
fSitllt
*o*
r
1
BETTER TOBACCO —-
A special blend of the choicest Virginia
tobacco leaf is used for "COUNTRY LIFE"
cigarettes. This blend is definitely not available to
any other maker. Here’s one good reason why
"COUNTRY LIFE" is the second best selling cigarette
in Australia.
2
BETTER MADE
Take a "COUNTRY LIFE" cigarette in your
hands. Feel how firmly it is rolled —how
unusually well-packed. Now light it —inhale —note
easily it draws—how cool the smoke.
Comparison will prove to you that "COUNTRY LIFE'
is a better-made cigarette.
3
BETTER PACKED
Tissue, tin-foil, a colourful handy tin, and an
outer air-tight wrapper, form the finest pack-
ing combination yet devised for cigarettes. This four-
fold protection for "COUNTRY LIFE" ensures your
getting fresh, well-conditioned cigarettes that keep
their freshness and firmness to the last.
1/- tins : 1/6 tins
X
m
-
-
M
CORK TIPPED VIRGI "
The Bulletin
Oft, lets fcyetA&i f— 0S
VoL 52.—N0. 2663.
Wednesday, February 25, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YV7RJ.TE for Dymoek’s Library Catalogue,
W and lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your Neu' Free
Ulpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
JJYSAGHT7
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
SAI) CE
WORCESTERSHIRE
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“ A few drops
V of my Worcest-
'!&l ershire Sauce
k served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
m
|i
r
f
f y HAIR.
<o NEED
here's
<&yfuj -
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Alien’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes ajl trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or. storekeeper for-
t&OJlMis CMEXICAN)
tikdtud Stiadn
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
Tm
\
Shampoo Regularly
with
Cutfcura Soap
Precede by applications of
Cutieura Ointment
This treatment will keep the
scalp in a healthy condition and
the hair thick and lustrous.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum 1». 3d.
Sample each free. Address: It. Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
lo
do
m
>ss
I
SEAL &f GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTU
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vix
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANK
DOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE PRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen.
cicity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Watars.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS it the
MftWE Of THE SPRING
SEAR THIS
IN MIND
c <Sht following statement defies contradiction}
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but. when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
trench Republic and bottled under its super*
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumai*
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by ail leading hotels, clubs- restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER,
i Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, ff.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Wnvmouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street. Brisbane.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Inimitable!
Kenneth Scott has some diverting paro-
dies in Without Prejudice (Hassell Press,
Adelaide; price not stated). His Zora
Cx-oss,
My heart is yours; my liver, soul, wliate’er... .
his Myra Morris,
I came, along by Cooma,
But the birds began to wail....
his Jack Lindsay; Kenneth Slessor, Leon
Gellert, Hugh McCrae and especially his
Dr. C. H. Souter,
Old Ma Millikin were sitting on the floor,
The floor were on foundations which the termites
loved to gnaw;
And the ironbark foundations were planted in the
ground,
And the green grass grew all round, my boys; the
green grass grew all round....
all have something of true parody quality;
tend to capture the spirit of the poet, rather
than the mere physical aspect of him, or,
as in Scott’s “Banjo” Paterson effort, the
physical aspect of a particular verse, which
is as far as most parodists get. Naturally,
he fails to get within the nimbus of the
one poet in Australia who can safely be
said to be inimitable, for this, surely, is
no more than a distant resemblance: —
The madman groundeth he’s teeth.
The corpse-, iayeth beneath,
He slidest back into it’s sheath
He’s blood-stained chopper;
“No more abouteth bananas,”
He’ll singest to the goannas,
At Sunday-school gymkhanas,
I’ve fixeth him proper.
Perhaps that may be acceptable as a parody
of “Bellerive’s” early bad manner, but the
reader who turns now to “Answei*s to Cor-
l’espondents” must realise how far short
it falls of the poet of to-day.
Shaw’s “Apple Cart”
One might have suggested that Boanerges,
of Bernard Shaw’s political extravaganza
The Apple Cart (Constable; Angus and
Robertson; 7s. 6d.), had his Australian
counterpart in Jock Garden, were it not
that Boanerges is such a crude, domineering,
futile trades-union parasite, all of which,
of course, Mr. Garden is not. Joseph Pro-
teus, too, might pass for Mr. Scullin, only
there is a seeming-peevishness about him,
which, of course, our Prime Minister is
without. The king, Magnus, whom Boan-
erges and Proteus seek to overthrow, has
not the shadow of an Australian counter-
part, unless we can dig up a counterpart
for Shaw himself. The time is beyond
1962. Magnus upsets the ' apple cart by
agreeing not to take a direct or indirect
pax-t in politics as a king any longer, adding
the rider that, instead, he will dissolve
Parliament, sti'ip himself of all titles and
dignities, and stand as a political candidate.
Shaw contends, in a characteristic intro-
duction, that such a change would rally
the anti-democratic vote against Proteus,
who, realising this well enough, goes off
stage before the final curtain, thoughtfully
gnashing his teeth. In Dresden the play
was prohibited as t a blasphemy against
democracy. Shaw asserts that it is no-
thing of the kind; that it exposes the
unreality of both democracy and royalty
as our idealists conceive them. He seems
to overlook that this is the extent of
such idealists’ powers of perception, and
that the people who parrot them have no
powers of perception at all. They take at
face value; and, at face value, The Apple-
Cart could have only one meaning for the
majority; they would see the acknowledged
leadei-s of democracy attempting to nullify
a king, and the king beating them at their
own game. The play, in fact, could be
successfully put over the footlights as
anti-democratic propaganda in any part of
the world, in spite of all Shaw’s contend-
ing that the conflict is not between royalty
and democracy, but between both and
plutocracy,
which, having destroyed the royal power by frank
force under democratic pretexts, has bought and
swallowed democracy. Money talks; money prints:
money broadcasts; money reigns; and kings and
labor leaders alikg have to register its decrees, and
even, by a staggering paradox, to finance its enter-
prise and guarantee its profits. Democracy is no
longer bought; it is bilked.
At least Shaw comes up to one of the
requirements that some critics ask of the
playright—he has something to say.
Bertood!
Another gentleman who has a good deal
to say, though perhaps in a slightly differ-
ent sense, is Danny Aheam in The Con-
fessions of a Gunman (Routledge; 7s. 6d.
net). Danny talks throughout the book, his
words having been
taken down, so it
is stated, by short-
hand writei’s. It is
all in the vile jar-
gon of the Ameri-
c a n underworld,
and, as there is no glossary, whole a,cres
of it are pretty near incomprehensiblte.
Personally, I failed to discover why poet
Richard Church, in his introduction, should
have warned the reader “that it will prob-
ably be one of the most horrible books
he has ever experienced.” That seems to
indicate that Church has not read the book
to which he likens its more chaotic pas-
sages, “Ulysses,” or even “All Quiet.” Both
those books bring their horribleness to the
reader as a personal experience; but this
jury-squaring, gang-shooting, judge-bribing,
police-hiring world is too fantastic to come
to the reader as an experience through such
an undramatic, matter-of-fact account as
gunman Danny gives. It takes someone as
seemingly fantastic as the organ-playing
Tony Perelli of the current Edgar Wallace
play to make it real, just as, perhaps, it
takes Danny, talking here, to make that
play a little more credible than some critics,
maybe prejudiced slightly by religious or
moral feelings, would have us believe it is.
A Tottering Goddess
That jazz, radio, wireless and other influ-
ences have brought Music down from her
splendid aloofness is the main contention
of Adolf Weissmann in Music Come to
Earth (Dent; 6s. net.), a little book that
no one at all interested in music can well
afford to miss. Weissmann believes that
machinery has brought the artist from
romantic remoteness into the public gaze;
once it has penetrated into every corner
of the globe, romanticism is bound to die
out, and that will be fatal to pure music
and artist alike. He sees the world as a
place in which
The craze for amusement has grown immeasur-
ably, brains are at a discount, the masses have
been reshuffled, and the young generation of to-day
has no greater ambition than to live thoroughly....
The fact that sport is becoming almighty throws
its light on th<> turning point of art, or anti-art,
at which we And ourselves.... The dethronement of
mind and sensibility is- to be completed through
the agency of sport.... Superficiality and intellectual
laziness have won their victory and robbed music,
like the rest, of its divinity.
It is a vigorous bit of work, and the trans-
lation by Eric Blom is excellent.
Unionist Ghosts
At any rate, that is how they strike me
the ghosts of Walter de la Mare’s eight
admirably-written short stories in On the
Edge (Faber and Faber; Roycroft; 145.).
They seem to have been employed by theii
creator at strictly award rates. There is
something unenterprising about them; none
of the initiative of, say, the same writer’s
“Mocking Fairy”:—
“What have they done with you, you poor Mrs.
GiH?’’
Quoth the Fairy brightly glancing in the garden ;
“Where have they hidden, you, you poor old Mrs.
Gill?”
Quoth the Fairy dancing lightly in the garden;
But night’s faint veil now wrapped the hill,
Stark ’neath the stars stood the dead-still mill,
And out of her cold cottage never answered Mrs.
Gill
The Fairy mimbling mambling in the garden.
Which is, of course, a little more than a
poetic method of mentioning that Mrs.
Gill is dead. It has ghostliness and reality
together; and it is the reality of all De
la Mare’s ghostly poetry that seems to me
to be missing from these stories. What
happens is that a writer tries to use a
technique that he has proved to be success-
ful in poetry for getting like results in
prose, and only succeeds in proving that it
can’t be done. He will not, like Music
come down to earth; and, depressions and
all thrown in, the earth is not a bad place
to have your feet on if it’s prose you’re
about.
Simple Stories, etc.
If it happened to be my job to doctor
the jaded, I’d advise Simple Stories from
Punch, by Archibald Marshall (Dent; 6s.
net), to be taken in small doses until the
supply was exhausted. The stories, in some-
thing of the “Sundry Shows” Flapper’s
manner, are snappy, breezy and diverting.
For anyone in search of a quick and lively
knowledge of the main points of the Big
War, the order would be Events of the
Great War, by W. Beach Thomas, in the
Routledge booklets (Introductions to
Modern Knowledge) which sell in Australia
at 9d. Aylmer Maude’s Leo Tolstoy and
His Works, is a recent potted-biography
addition to the same series, and could be
commended to those who have a fancy for
hero worshipping. In fact, any title in the
series is no waste of time to read.
RED PAGE.
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Anthony Horderns’ say it and mean itl
Th ose Better
which only Anthony
“Smokes”
Horderns' sell!
Much as the poets have written (and how truly!) of the profound delights of the “soothing
weed,” every man knows that the ultimate in smoking enjoyment comes only from his own
particular tobacco, smoked in a tried and trusted pipe, or from a cigarette whose subtle
differences he has long appreciated.
In short, every man has his favorite “smoke”—and in a tremendous number of cases his
favorite is one of those unquestionably superior blends obtainable only from Anthony
Horderns’. If you do not already know them, try these exclusive tobaccos, pipes, cigarettes,
now. THEN will you understand their widespread popularity!
“Waverley” Mixture
“Triumph” Dark “Triumph” Blend Tobacco
6B
“Waverley” Smoking
Mixture is a very old
brand of tobacco, by
the well-known firm of
Lambert and Butler. It
smokes cool and sweet,
leaving a minimum of
ash. 2oz. tins, 2/2
Price, per lb. . . 17/-
“Triumph” Dark Tobacco is of
full flavor, for the smoker who
likes a strong tobacco. It is
one of the exclusive offerings
of Anthony Horderns’.
1 lb. boxes 11/9
4oz. packets 3/-
2oz. plugs 1/5-2
4oz. plugs 2/11
‘ 'Triumph” Blend
Tobacco will not bite
the most sensitive
tongue; entirely free
of scented flavoring,
lib. boxes . . 12/9
4oz. packets, 3/3
2oz. plugs . . 1/6|
4oz. plugs. . 3/1
m
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
; PROVIDERS fi
BEST AROMATIC LONG CUT
TOBACCO 'v.v's
40Sket WEIGHT WHDf packed
iearns.
“Triumph” Cigarettes
“Triumph” Cigarettes—obtainable only from
Anthony Horderns’.
Virginian Plain—
HAND HADE FROM SELECTED
.. VIRGINIA ..
m* *
“ Hordernian” Cigarettes
“Hordernian” Rice Paper Cigarettes. Finest
Virginian Leaf.
Quality 25 50 100
Prices 2/- 4/- 7/9
“John Ruskin” Cigarettes
“John Ruskin” Cigarettes, of finest Virginian
Leaf Tobacco. No. 14, Heavyweight. Ex-
clusive to Anthony Horderns’.
Boxes of 20
Prices 1/6
50
3/9
100
7/6
Pipes that will be real friends!
Three
Qualities;
Six
Shapes
d
3 4
to 5
y,'
Sold
only by
Anthony
Horderns
Each of the six distinctive shapes illustrated above is available in the three brands of
pipes offered exclusively by Anthony Horderns’. All these pipes are finished with a
sterling silver band.
“Primrose” Briar. A well-made pipe with vulcanite mouthpiece. Price, each . . 4/-
“Palace” Briar. A superior pipe with vulcanite mouthpiece. Price, each 5/6
“Triumph” Briar. A distinguished pipe, featuring specially-graded and well-seasoned
bowl, with best-quality vulcanite mouthpiece. Price, each 9/-
Our Tobacco Department is conveniently situated on the Ground
Floor, George Street. We pay carriage on Pipes and Pouches, but
not on Tobacco or Cigarettes unless ordered with other goods on
which we do pay carriage.
Anthony '
Horderns’
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
POUCHES!
Folding Pouches from 14/6
Folding Rubber Tobacco Pouches,
Antelope Leather covered, with
best quality Moseley Rubber
Lining and 9ct. Gold Mount.
Round shape 14/6
Square shape 15/-
“Lightning Fastener” Pouches
from 7/6
The “Lightning Fastener” Pouch.
Opens and closes in a jiffy and
keeps your tobacco beautifully
fresh.
In Leatherette . . 3/9 and 4/-
Morocco Leather 7/6
Suede Leather . . : 12/-
Pin Seal Leather, 10/6 and 15/-
Beaver Calf 19/6
Real Crocodile with top fastener,
47/6
Wallet Pouches from 9/6
Morocco Leather 9/6
Beaver Calf 12/-
Real Crocodile 36/-


PROBAK THE BETTER BLADE
FITS EVERY RAZOR OF THIS TYPE
NEW AND OLD
If you use a two-edged razor, a PROBAK Blade
will fit it. No matter old design or new —the
better blade will fit it. And what then ? Simply
this; that you can get a shave such as you have
never enjoyed before! You feel your razor
slipping so smoothly, so easily, over your face
that you wonder if the blade is doing its job
—until you put up your hand and feel your cheek.
This PROBAK edge I It seems unbelievable that
steel can be honed and ground to such a
marvellous degree of sharpness.
Buy a packet to-day. Sold everywhere at fixed
prices: 1/9 the small packet; 3/6 the large.
Made and guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co. Ltd.,
197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
nr
»Vi A
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Hie Quality Plus
llioh sells lor less
jy[ADE by Bosch machinery
and production methods,
PYROX offers you the highest
quality of any plug on the
market to-day. And because
it is made in Australia it can
be sold at the lowest price ever
asked for a quality plug.
Fit a set to your car —notice
the difference they’ll make!
Sold by all progressive garages and accessory houses.
Manufactured by PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.), Melbourne.
Read This!
A MURDOCH-TAILORED
SUIT to YOUR MEASURE
for 78/9
CHEAP Suits are common enough,
but to get PURE WOOL
Suitings—to get the Suit MURDOCH-
TAILORED—to get it with a GUARAN-
TEE of fitting and service qualities, and
finally—to get it all for 78/9, that is the
marvellous part of this special offer. You
may select from Worsteds, Tweeds or
Serges—all splendid quality. Send for free
patterns without delay.
Usual Price £4/19/6
FOR A
LIMITED PERIOD
78/9
\
m
Other Two Murdoch Specials
A select stock of Pure Wool Wor-
steds, Tweeds and Serges to Measure.
Usually £5/15/-
£4/15/-
NOW
An extra-choice variety of superior
quality Suitings, all weaves in at-
tractive patterns and colorings.
Now y £7 . /7 . / :...£,5/15/-
ALL POST FREE TO YOUR DOOR.
Send Coupon here for free patterns —a full range
of all three will come to you by return mail
without cost or obligation.
Q
M
STReItT"
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND
BOYS' WEAR STORE.”
Address your letter to
Desk “R.”
Ltd
Desk “R./
Murdoch’s,
Box SB7STT,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly send me, without
cost or obligation, actual
patterns of the three Tailoring
Specials.
Name
Address


(f^
<ap
>i
A
Here’s an Intimate Subject!
Treated with startling frankness
Improper functioning of certain organs of the
body lead to ailments such as Constipation,
Bladder Weakness, Rheumatism, Headaches,
Backache, Neuritis, Piles, Indigestion, Blood
Pressure, Stomach Trouble.
Through faulty or partial evacu-
ation of the bowels, fragments
of food waste become encrusted
in the walls of the intestines or
colon. Germs breed in this waste
and enter the blood stream, re-
sulting in dreaded self-poisoning
( autoxima) caused through hid-
den constipation. These poisons
directly affect your physical
powers—sap your strength and
weaken your vitality.
DISSOLVE BODY POISONS!
Before youthful health can be
regained, this waste matter
must be flushed right out of the
system. The safe, easy way to
do this is to drink COLOSEPTIC.
It thoroughly dissolves and
washes out the decaying waste.
It rids the body of all poisons
through Nature’s four great out-
lets—the colon or large intes-
tine—the kidneys—the pores
of the skin and the respiratory
organs.
FULL OF VIM AND VIGOUR!
With the decaying crust re-
moved and the colon scrupu-
lously clean, pure blood once
again pulsates through your
veins, your energy is multiplied.
You are full of vim and vigour
—eyes become brighter—you
step more sprightly—body and
mind are keen—eager for work
or play. .You’re rejuvenised.
COLOSEPTIC is the answer to
the fears of middle-age!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
For your own benefit start tak-
ing COLOSEPTIC to-day. Send
now for the Special Demonstra-
tion Jar. Fill in and post the
coupon to-day.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY!
53
tH**
coiuirrk
Regular Full-size Jars, 5/7 1
All Chemists and Stores
(29)
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd.,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
31/C
Feuchtwanger’s Latest
Success (Martin Seeker, translated from
the German by Willa and Edwin Muir,
10s.) is Lion Feuchtwanger’s latest, and is
in every respect a greater work than “Jew
Suss.” It is more sincere and artistically
competent. Some of the effects in “Jew
Suss” were cheaply romantic; Success is
realistic in the best sense of that misunder-
stood word.
Somebody has remarked that Russia is
not a country but a world, and this novel
comes under the same category. It is an
immense work, though that is not unusual
these days. It contains 142 chapters and
743 pages. There are as many characters in
it as in the average Chinese novel. The
same care has been lavished on all of them.
All but a few command sympathy. The
major cast commands intense sympathy.
The various parts fall into place to make
a complete whole, and the whole forms an
extraordinarily vital picture of Munich,
Bavaria, during the three years of the in-
flation orgy following after a short interval
on the Armistice.
Merely from that aspect the novel is of
absorbing interest, but that is only one ele-
ment in Feuchtwanger’s gigantic composi-
tion. What it sets out to picture is the
breakdown of the sense of justice during a
period of political uncertainty. The oppor-
tunities for legalised violence provided by a
war are missed when the war ceases, and,
for lack of other means, the judiciary is
expected to supply them. In Bavaria, the
judiciary, conventionally supposed to be im-
partial, faithfully reflects the public temper,
as in other countries. The particular occa-
sion is trifling. Martin Kruger, director of
the Munich Art Gallery, buys for the nation
a nude self-portrait of a rising young female
painter who has committed suicide. The
Minister for Fine Arts is a lowbrow peasant,
and his libido is inflamed at this offence
against decency. He succeeds in arranging
the prosecution of the director for perjury,
Kruger having affirmed at earlier proceed-
ings that he did not spend the night with
the dead artist. The case reeks of corrup-
tion, but Kruger is found guilty and sen-
tenced to three years. His retention in
prison is made a political issue. The fate
of the Government becomes involved in it.
Those who want Kruger out are pro-Jews,
Bolshevists, destroyers of the home and all
the rest of it. Those who want him in are
patriots, defenders of family purity and
saviours of the Empire.
Johanna Krain, who has voluntarily be-
smirched her reputation by giving Kruger
the benefit of an alibi, devotes herself to
the cause of releasing the art director. In
a very poignant chapter she marries him in
prison. While he is in there his books on
art become world-famous. In the end he
dies of angina pectoris just when his release
is imminent owing to political changes and
international indignation. Remorse impels
Johanna to justify his memory, and she
makes a moving-picture of the story which
causes a sensation. To an Australian reader
this is an unconvincing item. The chances
of a picture of the sort causing a sensation
or even getting a hearing is alien to the
mind of the picture-going public.
There is nothing very new or startling
about the story. Great art is always based
on the simplest foundations. Rembrandt
made great art out of sides of beef hanging
in butchers’ shops. Feuchtwanger’s achieve-
ment is the re-creation of a people and an
epoch. The beer-drinking, sausage-eating
Munich bourgeoisie and their gross, hearty,
cunning peasant leaders come to life unfor-
getably. A book that is not a mere enter-
tainment, but an experience.
F.S.
Yarn of a Yeoman
Good books dealing with the Sinai and
Palestine campaign, which finally turned
the flank of the Central European and
Turkish alliance, are as scarce as honesty
in a politician. One of the rare speci-
mens is The Yarn of a Yeoman, by S.
F. Hatton (Hutchinson; 10s. 6d.). The writer
served in England, Suvla, Salonica, Western
Egypt, Sinai and Palestine with the Middle-
sex Imperial Yeomanry, and had four years
of assorted brands of plain and fancy
fighting in trench or open, in snow or
fire, afoot or mounted. His story is told
with quiet humor and appreciation, and
though he does not gloss over the nastiness
of war on occasion, he does not make a
howling obsession of it, as do so many of
his contemporaries. His book is peculiar—
I had nearly written unique—among the
books of British war writers in that he has
a generous appreciation of those Australian
brothers in arms of the Light Horse regi-
ments who fought with him from Gallipoli
to Damascus, and his description of the un-
paralleled cavalry ride which encircled and
destroyed the Turkish army is vivid and
crammed with keen observation. Very
properly he stresses the importance of the
capture of the Beersheba trenches by the
Fourth Light Horse Brigade, which first
gave the lie to the theory that the day of
fast-moving cavalry in attack was over.
Later we have the epic story of the charge
across an open plain by the Warwick
and Worcester Yeomanry which resulted
m the capture of three batteries of Aus-
trian fieldguns with their machine-gun
supports, and the sabreing of the sweat-
ing gunners desperately striving to stay
the galloping onslaught with shrapnel set
at zero, and bursting at the gun muzzles
—all also very disconcerting to the ex-
perts of the new school of warfare.
J. B. H.
A Satchel of Books
Dream Days, by Kenneth Grahame (Bod-
ley Head; 7s. 6d. net). A perfect book for
transporting back to childhood anyone
capable of being transported. Ernest
Shepard’s illustrations help the good work.
A charming sheaf of sketches by both artists.
Messalina, by. H. Stadelmann (Routledge;
155.). The author’s staccato style and his
rather patronising efforts to be impressive
detract from a well-designed piece of impres-
sionistic writing. The sub-title, “A Picture
of Life in Imperial Rome,” should have been
the main one; the work is not greatly con-
cerned with the lady. .
“.... And Such Small Deer,” by E. Y.
Lucas (Methuen; 3s. 6d. net). Approaching
the two-hundredth (or it may be three-
hundredth) green, E. V. Lucas appears to be
several up on Edgar Wallace. His latest
contribution to the Great Endurance Write
is a collection of brief sketches on all manner
of animals. A pretty little book.
Letters of Queen Victoria, edited by
George Earle Buckle (Murray; 255. net).
The latest issue in this expansive, freely-
illustrated collection is the first volume of
the third and final series, which will not
run to the eight vols. of the other two, but
will be restricted to five. This vol. brings
the story down to the close of 1890.
A Child’s Charles Dickens, arranged by
Patrick Braybrooke (Cecil Palmer; 7s. 6d.
net). Every Dickensian will give this col-
lection of extracts to his or somebody else’s
children as a matter of course. Others may
be content to let the child reach for his
Dickens in mature time —and then take him
whole. Braybrooke seems a trifle patronis-
ing, but he has done his job well.
Storm Against the Wall, by Laurence W.
Meynell (Hutchinson; 6s. 6d.), is anti-Com-
munist propaganda very thinly disguised as
fiction. It visualises an England under pro-
letarian rule. For six years the people suffer
abject slavery; then their secret society
rescues them and returns the exiled Queen
and the old order of things. As propaganda
it fails through loading the dice too openly
in favor of the downtrodden Royalists. As
an, entertainer it is quite a passable effort.
The Expansion of Italy, by Luigi Villari
(Faber and Faber; 15s. net). An outline
history forms a background for an account
of _the_ recent efforts at expansion, chiefly in
Tripoli and South Tyrol, and an attempt to
reply to critics of Italian methods of admin-
istration in those countries. It is most
interesting—especially coming on top of the
outburst'of a South Tyrol patriot recently
reviewed by Red Page—for revealing how
easy it would be, and might be, to get 'a
war going at any moment in Southern
Europe. No student of the ticklish job of
keeping world peace can afford to miss it.
Company I Have Kept, by Henry S. Salt
(Allen and Unwin; 10s. net). A book not
as easy to classify as it is to read. Indirectly,
it is autobiography; it is of those he has
known rather than of himself that the author
writes. He has not known them all person-
ally, nor are they all humans. Early he
presented himself with the “freedom of the
hills,” and they and their inhabitants figure
in the “company.” So do the writers whose
work he has enjoyed. There is a fine chapter
on W. H. Hudson, whom he did know. Swin-
burne and Shaw are other personal “com-
pany.” Of Swinburne:—
No one who saw him, in his later years at Putney,
as I once did in the company of Mr. Bernard Shaw,
could have failed to be struck by his appearance
of irresolution. At Shaw he seemed to look quite
apprehensively; and when, at the conclusion of
lunch, he took me off-to his study, to show me his
books and to talk about Eton, I had a suspicion
that he was prompted to do so by his fear of
“G. 8.5.”
The Silence of Sarrail, by Paul Coblenz
(Hutchinson; 18s. net), is an attempt to
explain the chequered career of a man who
was a conspicuous figure in the French
Higher Command during the war and after.
Sarrail had three great chances, but some-
how spilled them all. He commanded the
3rd Army at Verdun in 1914, was later C.
in C. of the Allied Forces in Salonica, and,
finally, was High Commissioner of Syria
when the unfortunate bombardment of
Damascus, which roused the indignation of
East and West alike, took place. Though in
all positions he did some good work, he was
Stellenhosched from all three, retirement
from the army following on the last affair.
Sarrail took his wrongs with him in silence
to the grave. His friend’s book shows at
least that he had many political and military
enemies.
And a Little Verse
UNITY.
Though they so many seem,
All things are one;
Men, beasts, gentle and fierce, birds, trees
and earth,
Stars and sun.
Wholly extern
Must be that eye
Which sees the wholeness and harmony,
pattern and web....
That is Poetry.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
GLORIANA.
Wide-eyed, through the moving green,
Gloriana, from a wave,
Sees the morning chariot-wheel,
Fiery-lighted, spokes and nave,
Take the road across the sky—
“ Ave!” all the sea-gods cry.
“Ave! Ave!" Not the sun :
Gloriana, ’tis for thee,
Boys of Neptune clap their hands
Carolling thy sovereignty;
While, in native grace, you’ ride
Brown and beautiful, the tide/
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.C.W.: Much obliged. Bulletin leaders
may be reprinted, so long as we are given the blame.
.... Calare: Put it in one-fifth the space.... Wully:
But Smith and Co., who have struggled to keep
their staff going, would be at a disadvantage com-
pared with Brown and Co., who jumped at the
chance to sack hands. No; don’t think much of
that scheme....A. Cocky: Yes, but this paper con-
ceded that, because the country couldn’t do without
the producer for export, even the Mrs. Perkinses
would have to suffer a reduction of interest on
deposits so that the producer might get a much
greater reduction of interest on advances... .J.W.8.:
‘‘The Heritage” has an ingenious plot, but the telling
is unadulterated melodrama. “The Mystery of
Wanda Court”, has six murders in it; five is our
limit... .D.J.R.: Idea sound; verses rough-dressed.
. —L.M.C.: Might have done in the days of the
suffragettes... .N.Y.: Unhealthy subject, and crudely
handled.... S.J.W.: It’s genial, but unreal....
VV.A.D.: Seeing you’re a fatalist, its rejection will
not disturb you. .. .H.S.C.: Not clamoring for
modernised versions of Hans Christian Andersen....
S.K.Y Try ■ “Blackberry Time” on one of the
Saturday supplements.... .J.W.8.: Yours is the
eleventh Dad to break in a new car this week....
Sapere Aude: No snap in them... .Creeper: In-
decipherable. Can’t you write on something better
than tissue paper? H.1.M.: Graphic in its way,
but the sorry business is best forgotten....
A.S.L.: Very well done, but it lacks life.... Animus:
Yours is the other way round—feeling is there, but
the treatment doesn’t come up to it... .W.M.F.:
Thought it capital, save for the jerky refrain line.
. ...M.J.G.: Sorry; the truth doesn’t excuse the
length P.G.W.: Don’t fancy either... .R.M.: Try
another, please... .J.E.S.: It has merit for the age.
.... R. 1.: Don’t care for your specimen of the wild,
wild bush country... .W.Y.S.: Next time that Muse
comes round, give her the cold shoulder... .Ger:
Description of concert reads like an extract from
“Hansard”... .D.T.: Neither suits Kismet:
Thought in “Moon Song,” but a bit too slight....
Wog: Poets speculating on “When I Am Dead”
tempt the hope that they’ll get the shock of their
lives... .H.C.: “The Old, Old Story.” Afraid so.
. ...T.J.H.: In the arty-tarty class J.A.: You
mightn’t believe it, but ten times worse stuff has
been written about that bridge... .J.V.L.: Earlier
effort, like the present one, unsuitable A.E.S.:
Nice idea, but that’s the total... .A.R.8.: Space is
very tight on that page.... J.V.W.: Drop the jerky,
artificial style, say your say plainly, space your
lines, and let us hear from you again... .R.H.F.:
As verse, it isn’t.... O.McM.: Seems to be a cock-
tail of Henry Lawson and Yeats... .A.W.T.: Either
the tune or the harp is 01d....R.E.: Don’t fancy
its American twang. .. .J.A.A.: You might place it
elsewhere... .R.W. (New Guinea) : Glad to hear from
you; sorry you can’t hear from the cashier
Toorite: Paid it the compliment of burning it in
the best stove Bellerive: Yet another gem:—
HYPNOTIZED.
Hypnotized by a professor,
A man short and fat,
Under the mystic’s influence,
Chewed the rim of he’s hat.
To and fro wriggled like
A cat on hot bricks
And other’s did follow
With eccentric tricks.
The audience laughed
When a youth in a rage
Stayed by the professor
Did rush off the stage.
While from a piano
Sweet music did sound
A hypnotized dude did
Waltz softly around.
(Next week: “Up to the Silvery Moon.”)
. ...M.L.8.: Who told you we printed fairy stories?
.... R.D.; Childish.... 8.P.: Stale and not Aus-
tralian... .A.M.D.: Very near... .K. 8.: Pointless....
T.E.C.: A long way after Rossetti’s “A Last Con-
fession”... .F.P.; Racecourse yarn too melodramatic
and tangled... .D.G.C.: Left the elbow-benders to
their beer.... J.R.F.: Little more than an inventory
of a flapper’s wardrobe.... S.B. and E.J.: Come up
for sentence when called upon... .W.W.S.: Punctu-
ation is only one of your faults... .E.S.: Balder-
dash... .J.G.H.: One of the oldest of the mistaken-
identity plots... .R.A.: No anchorage here for grief-
stricken skipper of tramp... .L.S.W.: Loves of shop-
lifter and house detective too syrupy Flores:
Make it very brief and direct... .P.V. : That point
has been made.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.P.: You might as well have sent a picture of
a couple of flagpoles.... S.D.: Do they live in rabbit
hutches?... .L.M.: Crooked lines and muddy wash.
. ...J.N.T.: Bathing girls too bumpy... .W.J.M.8.;
Improving, but still a bit crude. ...D.D.T.: Stiff and
scratchy as before... .F.S.: Bold and bad... .K.S.C.:
“I hope you will be able to place this.” We were
—in the basket... .8.H.: Something in the idea
but the drawing is dreadful... .A.E.R.: No excuse
for those atrocities... .K.A.8.: Changing his name
from McTavish to McKenzie doesn’t make it a new
joke... .C.8.J.: The week’s worst drawing and gag.
... .P.W.: Fair... .H.C.: Idea has been used in other
quarters... .A.N.: Home, John !....V.R.: Has been
done many times... .V.R.: You made a fearful botch
of it... .L.W.8.: Keep trying... .J.8.N,: Not a bad
joke, but is it original? L.R.: Better tear up the
195 you didn’t send A.M.J.: Unskilful trifles.


sdf
sdf
«
. V
■'Mm
■ 9
i ■
m
ii m
a*
Jl !
■I
«T\
■ '.
IV
*si
tr
\
ill
:
$ >«
iwu»pv
■
: ' ;:■ ;a
111
: 1 :
mm
■
: Mt
m
il:
m
m
■m | . | m wssmsm ... m ~f mm
* . ■ ijllKf MB
"• • :; ■ : "i i : ■ ' '
I
Itea
Wh"'r
£
% I
>*lr
lli
isl||llipfe
■to*. ‘
H
n !
dfgdfg
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2663.
February 25, 1931.
VIEW OF AUSTRALIAN LABOR POLITICS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street-, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone BTJII.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westuai.ia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, fV.C.2.
Temple Bar n? 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Austrai.asia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s ■; 6 months, 12s. 6 d.;
S months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, los. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .* .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEA SON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 18
SHADOW SHOWS 18
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? ~ ..19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) . . .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole . . 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER . . . . . . 32
SAID BEFORE (drawing by Phil May) .. ..33
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 32,34
COMPLETE STORY—
“DOG DAYS,” by William Hatfield .. 37, 38
VERSE—By Arnold Wall, Hugh McCrae,
Dulcie Deamer . . . . .. 5, 38
COME ON, GET TOGETHER!
“Damn the politician!” “Damn the civil
servant!” And when we have damned one
and damned the other, we go on leaving
things to them as before. In the past 18
months we have had dozens of conferences to
save Australia; nine-tenths of them have been
political and the rest sectional. The mistake
we have made is in assuming that because
the politicians landed us in the trouble, there-
fore the politicians must be left alone to
get us out of it. There is neither rhyme nor
reason in that.
Our troubles, though caused by the poli-
ticians, are not indeed wholly or even
mainly political. They are industrial and
financial. Now, no political conference can
represent our industrial life. Political
Labor may claim to represent the man-
power of industry; but it is very doubtful
whether it does. It certainly does not repre-
sent the whole of labor. On the other side,
it is equally certain that Nationalism
does not represent the employer. How
could it, since it welcomes the employee
quite as enthusiastically as it does the em-
ployer, and angles for him rather more
assiduously? On questions of private
finance any political conference is equally
non-representative: as far as The Bulletin
knows, the Nationalists have no more war-
rant to speak for the great financial insti-
tutions of Australia than Labor has. So the
political conference as an instrument for
settling our difficulties is foredoomed to
failure. Yet from his very nature the poli-
tician will push himself to the front and
make a pretence of doing the job. His very
existence depends upon the capture of votes,
and his whole life is a struggle to get into
the limelight and keep there.
Moreover, so long as we let the politician
have control, so long will the public have
a wrong conception of the matter. With a
few exceptions he is not used to dealing with
the practical things of business: there are
probably not more than half a dozen men
in the N. S. Wales Assembly, for instance,
whom a competent board would choose as
managers to dig a business out of serious
trouble or carry it through a difficult period.
No doubt the average politician is able to
see dangers that surround and threaten us.
What he does not realise is that dangers
surround and threaten every business at
some time or other. The competent busi-
ness man does not talk about these dangers;
he proceeds to meet them. Because the
average politician does not know how to
meet them, he envelops them in a cloud of
words, magnifying them, distorting them,
and, above all, playing the politicians’ old
trick of making a party quarrel out of them.
And we fools who are not in the political
game stand by and let them do it! We
fools stand by and let them do it though
we know that these are the very people
whose incompetence or worse produced the
mess! We fools stand by and let them do
it though we know that for 18 months they
have made no progress whatever, and have
indeed only piled obstacle on obstacle! We
fools stand by and let them do it though we
are throwm out of work and are for months
idle, though our businesses are ruined,
though our savings are dissipated and our
families in want, and though we confess
we cannot see a break in the clouds ahead
of us or above us!
No doubt there are signs of rebellion in
every part of Australia; in N. S. Wales in
particular there is a very vigorous move-
ment of protest, and an energetic “All for
Australia” society. But here again it is
political action that is chiefly in view; and
surely it is time we attempted to do some-
thing apart from these hopeless failures.
Nothing, however, will be done until we get
together; we shall have to do it in the
end, and delay is merely added agony. Had
representatives of the two main industrial
sections and of finance and commerce got
together 15 months ago there would have
been far fewer difficulties to overcome than
there are to-day ; the longer we hold off
now the more the herrings that will be
drawn across the track and the harder the
work to keep to it. Yet the difficulties will
probably be found to have been enormously
exaggerated. We have got to remember
that all the talking has been done at either
political or sectional conferences. The first
can be disregarded; the others have been
chiefly window-dressing competitions. The
Labor-union head in particular has got so
into the habit of making extravagant de-
mands, knowing that he will have to yield
something, that to-day there is little sin-
cerity in any of his published resolutions
and manifestos. That is part of the price
we are paying for our so-called arbitration
system.
But, hard or easy, the job has to be done.
There are too many with too much to suffer
to permit this to remain the shuttlecock of
politicians much longer. We must get to it
ourselves; and the most obvious course is
to return to the Niemeyer report and the
Melbourne agreement as a starting point.
And then, of course, there must be a main-
spring. Someone must give this movement
a start and perhaps keep it going for
a few weeks. If Monash had not been sent
away he should have done it. There are
other men, however, who would put Aus-
tralia further into their debt by tackling
this problem—men like John Higgins, who
made so great a success of Bawra; and Gepp,
who threw up one of our most important
industrial jobs to help the Commonwealth
forward. It may be that nothing would
come of a first or a second or even a third
meeting. But with the Niemeyer report and
the Premiers’ agreement as a basis, a plan
of salvation would gradually be worked out;
concessions and undertakings would be sug-
gested ; direction would be given to the work
of the politicians; hope would flow back,
and with hope confidence (for all such crises
as this are largely psychological); and once
we get confidence we shall get also that
help from London which seems to us indis-
pensable in our present circumstances.
THE PEOPLE NOT POWERLESS.
“Of this the people can be assured. The Aus-
tralian Labor movement would not permit for one
moment any of its leaders to be associated with a
policy of repudiation. The Labor party sets its
face against all repudiation.”— J. T. Lang, in his
policy speech at Auburn, September 22.
At the Premiers’ conference (Canberra, February
9), the same J. T. Lang proposed: (1) “That the
Governments of Australia decide to pay no further
interest to British bondholders until Britain has
dealt with the Australian overseas debts in the same
manner as she has settled her own foreign debt
with America. (2) That in Australia, interest on
all Government borrowings be reduced to 3 per
cent.” He added: “The Government of N. S. Wales
has decided to adopt this policy where it applies,
regardless of what the decision at this table
might be.”
In the N. S. Wales Parliament on Tuesday
this loan drunkard of other days—as
Treasurer in 1920-21 and 1925-27 he
borrowed 40 millions —repeated that the
“policy” outlined at Canberra was the
“policy” of his Government. In the same
Parliament on Wednesday the dominant
mob, which lied its way to the Treasury
benches, refused to allow the “policy” to be
discussed. Must New South Wales then
suffer the shame and disaster of being posted
as a defaulter? Happily the crime can be
prevented. It will not even be attempted
(though, of course, the mere threat that
it will be has done untold harm) if the
Scullidores rise to the occasion.
The debts on which it is proposed to de-
fault amounted on June 30 to £270,908,000.
They are not now controlled by the State;
with the enthusiastic approbation of the
people of N. S. Wales (the voting was
754,446 for and 415,846 against) they have
been transferred to the Commonwealth
by virtue of an agreement which has been
validated by both parties, and is now Com-
monwealth law and State law. It is provided
in section 105 of the Commonwealth Consti-
tution Act that “the State shall indemnify
the Commonwealth in respect of the debts
taken over”; in section 5 that “all laws
made by the Parliament of the Common-
wealth under the Constitution shall be bind-
ing on the Courts, Judges and people of
every State and of every part of the Com-
monwealth, notwithstanding anything in the
laws of any State”; in section 109 that
“when the law of a State is inconsistent
with the law of the Commonwealth the
latter shall prevail.” If the Scullidores per-
mit Lang to carry out his threat, the Con-
stitution Act becomes waste paper, and the
Commonwealth will break up; and, weak as
they have shown themselves in other
matters, Federal Ministers are surely not as
craven as all that.
But whatever the Scullidores may do or
suffer there is still the Governor of N. S.
Wales to be reckoned with. This gentle-
man has “great powers” (the words are those
of the “Year Book” “published by authority
of the Government of N. S. Wales”), and
so has the Imperial Parliament. Indeed,
“the Imperial Parliament is legally omni-
potent in local as well as Imperial affairs,
and it may exercise effective control over
the affairs of the State by direct legislation,
and some indirect control through the Sec-
retary of State for the Colonies, by whom
the Governor is directed Where Im-
perial interests are involved the prerogative
powers of the Crown are exercised through
the Privy Council, the Secretary of State
for the Colonies and the Governor”; and
those interests are certainly involved when
the Government of N. S. Wales threatens to
refuse payment of interest to its British
creditors. For the rest, the Governor may, if
he sees fit, “act in opposition to the opinion of
his Ministers, reporting the matter to the
Secretary of State for the Dominions”; 'he
may reserve or refuse to assent to bills
passed by the Legislature; he is “guardian
of the Constitution, and bound to see that
the great powers with which he is entrusted
are not used otherwise than in the public
interest”: “in extreme cases his discretion
constitutes a safeguard against malprac-
tices.” An extreme case has clearly arisen.
The rights and interests of the people of
N. S. Wales and the fair fame of their
Federal State are in jeopardy, and their
will, as expressed at the State Debts referen-
dum, is to be flouted. They will rejoice
if the Governor dismisses his present
advisers and entrusts the leader of the
late Government with the duty of securing
the people’s considered opinion on default—
as the “Year Book” puts it, “he still pos-
sesses important spheres of independent
action such as granting dissolution of Par-
liament.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trade Cycles.
The fact of the existence of trade cycles
is important. Nothing is surer than that
the present world slump will be followed by
revival. The individual may not survive
the storm and stress; he may be cast up a
wreck along with a million others. But
the world will roll on in spite of that, with
its alternating booms and depressions.
The fact of the existence of these cycles
is in no way affected by the irregularity of
their occurrence of uncertainty about their,
cause. Professor Jevons long ago recognised
the cycle and thought it had something to
do with sun spots. That theory has been
abandoned; but nobody can offer a com-
pletely satisfactory explanation. No doubt
the waves are chiefly psychological, but
what causes mob optimism to-day and mob
pessimism to-morrow is still largely con-
jecture.
In Australia the cycle is not so clear-cut
as in most parts of the world, because here
we are deeply affected by “accidental” cir-
cumstances, such as a drought or red rust
in wheat, which produce such large local
results that we may be in the trough of a
depression while the rest of the world may
be enjoying prosperous days. Nevertheless,
we are as deeply concerned with the trade
cycle as any other country, since it governs
world prices. And it has done more than
that for us. High price-levels are due very
largely to those same psychological causes
which not only lately made it so ridicu-
lously easy for us to borrow, but also made
us so ridiculously prone to borrow. In that
great drunk the world reeked of optimism.
Optimism bred over-confidence; over-con-
fidence bred extravagance; extravagance
bred waste. During this period credit was
easily got and investment prices rocketed.
Then the inevitable reaction began. The
more cautious began to realise their secu-
rities. Soon there was more or less general
talk that “things had gone too far.” In-
vestors began to find flaws where none
existed before. Australia, for example, “had
been borrowing far beyond its capacity.”
As the pendulum swung back it carried
prices with it. The failure of London to
continue lending to us and the slump in
the world markets for our staples are not
two things, but two manifestations of the
same thing.
The process leading on to over-produc-
tion, under-consumption and a smash in
prices is reasonably clear. In the trough
of a depression stocks of wrought material
are worked down; there is a struggle to
realise at almost any price. Manufacture,
incapable of rapidly readjusting its costs, falls
away. Capital is written down; many of
the poorly equipped in plant or business
capacity fall out. Overhead is greatly re-
duced and labor is much more effective.
Raw material is very cheap. There is still
some purchasing power, and manufacturers
are surprised at their profits under their
new conditions. Capital becomes available
for extensions, and the upward movement
begins. Gradually confidence returns, stocks
are increased, wages rise, larger profits are
sought, confidence grows more vigorously,
new companies are formed, the construction
trades get busy once more, the markets for
raw materials respond to the brisker
demand, and soon the wave is reaching
boom levels. The cycle may be long or
short —there seems to be a tendency for
it to shorten, probably due to better com-
munications and a more complex civili-
sation —but movement is ceaseless.
Whether we have reached the bottom of
this depression nobody knows. We may
still be wallowing in it when others are well
out of it. But even so, there is comfort
in the fact that others cannot get out of
it without dragging us upward, because their
recoveiy means a rise in price-levels. No
doubt it would be all to the good if these
violent ups and downs could be eliminated,
and in time perhaps they will be. Mean-
time and so long as world-cycles persist,
our only course seems to be to accommo-
date ourselves to them. Nature has its
own way of restoring the balance of things.
♦ '
Gold and Uncle Sam’s Share of It.
“Frozen gold” and “sterilised gold” are
among the popular platform phrases of the
day. In recent years there never was too
much gold to support the world’s currency,
we are told, and now since so many million
pounds’ worth of gold has been impounded
in the U.S.A. and latterly in France, the
position is worse than ever.
Of course, the disposition of the gold of
the world has enormously changed since
1912; but it is doubtful whether the facts
regarding the changes are quite clear in the
public mind.
In 1912 the principal banks and the
public treasury of the U.S.A. held 1495
million dollars in gold reserves; at June
30, 1930, they held 4178 million dollars, the
increase being 179 per cent, of the total
at the earlier date. That looks rather
startling; but it loses some of its startling
character when it is realised that the gold
reserves of the banks and treasuries of
Europe outside Russia and the Central-
European group of small States increased
149 per cent, in the same period. On this
subject the National City Bank of New
York wrote in its circular for October: —
The United States and France have gained largely,
and almost at the same rate. In the case of
France, as with Germany, Great Britain and other
countries, much of the increase has been in the
form of coin that before the war had been in
circulation, tills and private banks. But during
and following the war the French people accumulated
important credits abroad, which since the stabilisa-
tion of their currency they have been gradually
bringing home. In the case of the United States,
the country’s trade position during the war and
since has been one factor, but perhaps an even
more important factor has been the voluntary action
of foreign banks, corporations and individuals in
choosing New York as a place for the employment
of reserve funds. An annual inquiry, conducted for
several years by the Department of Commerce, has
shown that the total of foreign funds temporarily
employed in the New York money market has been
approximately equal to the sum of this country’s
net gold acquisitions since 1914.
Bad money always drives out good money:
the owners of good money will send it
away to some place where it can be changed
for bad money (if bad money is wanted)
at something above par. Thus, if a sov-
ereign is tendered at an Australian bank it
is good for only 20s. of our paper money;
if it is abroad, it is worth about 265. of
our paper money. Between December, 1912.
and June, 1930, while France and the U.S.A
were each adding 179 p.c. to their gold
reserves and Britain 94 p.c., Australia lost
40 p.c.
For many years Switzerland was a pool
for the gold of Europe; there was hardly
a crowned head or a millionaire who did
not have a few thousands in the great in-
dependent buffer State for safe keeping. The
U.S.A. and France—the former especially
—have now largely taken Switzerland’s
place in that respect. If gold is there,
“frozen” or “sterilised,” it is because its
owners mistrust the rulers elsewhere. So
the latest phases of democracy come into
the question. Uncle Sam has 46 per cent,
of the world’s gold reserves as against
28 per cent, before the war, not so much
because he has grabbed it as because
people who have made savings in other
parts of the world—Australia included—
have sent their money to him for safe
keeping, believing that he is not at all
disposed to play any tricks with his
currency.
Boom Prices of Farms.
Five years ago there was a small land boom
in the Hillston district of far-western N. S.
Wales. The country had been recently
recommended for wheat-growing, mainly on
the strength of a railway which a few in-
terested people had engineered, and farms
on which improvements to the extent of a
few shillings per acre had been made were
sold for as much as £7 per acre. On some
of these holdings there has been no harvest
for the past three years: the rains missed
this district even in the past bountiful
season, and there are few people there who
are not living chiefly on rabbits and crushed
wheat. Elsewhere in the Riverina as much as
£l2 per acre was paid three or four years
ago for wheat land from which a full crop
cannot be expected in more than one season
in three. Over the border, in the Wimmera,
£3O has been paid for land which at the
moment good judges estimate to be worth
from £l2 to £ls.
Australian wheat-farming would no doubt
be in great difficulties if these ridiculous
prices had not been paid; but it is they
which have made the position hopeless for
thousands of farmers.
The trouble has been done this time, and
the most we can do is to relieve the dis-
tress. But is it possible to prevent future
disaster? Our conditions, we have to
recognise, favor gambling in farm lands.
While an inexperienced buyer is consider-
ing whether £lO an acre is too much to
pay, word reaches him of a 30-bushel crop
taken off adjoining land in a year when
wheat was worth 4s. 9d. per bushel
£7 2s. 6d. from one year’s crop, showing a


THE SHEPHERD’S DILEMMA.
THE SHEPHERD (Jim Scullin): “A nice mob this is for a man to put through THAT gate!”
clear return of three-fifths of the purchase
money in the buyer’s first year. It takes
a stubborn man to resist an argument like
“ a L
No doubt if a man were able to carry
on he would be able to show a very fair
return over a long range of years even with
a farm bought at what at this moment looks
like an absurd price. The trouble is he
rarely is able to carry on; for if he gets
“a bit ahead of it,” nine times out of ten
there is a neighbor’s farm crying out for
purchase. Then comes the run of bad years,
with almost the entire wheat-farming com-
munity flat out to it in the end.
What can be done about it—if anything?
No doubt experience ought to teach; but
it doesn’t: there is always a new crop of
blessed optimists, and the old ones can
clearly see that “this time” is quite dif-
ferent from “last time.” In ordinary circum-
stances one would say that the disease had
better be left to cure itself. But these
are not ordinary circumstances. As The
Bulletin has been often saying lately, we
can’t do without these export producers: we
owe so much money abroad that we must
have their staples to send away to pay the
interest. Therefore, when they crash we
must come to their relief and put them on
their feet again. And that being so, we are
more or less called upon to see that they
do not crash. And that being so, it looks
as though we might be entitled to require
every contract for the purchase of a farm
to be O.K. d by some authority. Maybe
that authority should not have the power
of absolute veto; but it should be entitled
nuttl u be + l eqUlred t 0
put all tne salient facts before the prospec-
tive buyer in every case of doubtful values,
Hitherto it has been a disgraceful fact that
officialdom has been more concerned to
put up prices than to moderate them, be-
cause the higher the price the more in gen-
era! the revenue from stamp and other
duties.
♦
“A National Emergency.”
A point we shall have to consider very soon
is whether a state exists which justifies
departure from the ordinary paths. Such
a state was declared to exist soon after
the Great War started, and in Britain under
the Defence of the Realm Act, and in Aus-
tralia under corresponding laws and regu-
lations, established principles were put by
and emergency measures adopted. The
question in effect is, Can we pull through
without doing things which would not be
tolerated under normal conditions?
rp, j- , , ...
1 J? d >sP ute here will probably boil down
to this: Why should holders of Government
stock and other securities carrying a fixed
rate of interest be the only people who not
only do not suffer from, but actually gain
by, a wholesale fall in price levels? There
is one tremendous reason why they should
not suffer from a wholesale fall: because they
do not gain by a wholesale rise. Through-
out the recent period of high prices there
were large Australian loans outstanding
which carried only 3 and 3i per cent.; and
those rates stood notwithstanding that £3
would not purchase one-half of what it
would when the loan was floated. A most
important thing follows from this: if we
throw any doubt about our willingness to
stand by our contracts when they go against
us, we shall have to pay a great deal more
for every loan. The fair rent of all money
is approximately the same at the same
time; the large variations in interest
charged are due entirely to the variations
in the risks involved. The question there-
fore is whether we shall not penalise our-
selves heavily by touching interest rates
at all, so far as public bonds are concerned,
Yet The Bulletin has gone this far; a
national emergency has arisen to the extent
that the primary producer, whose staples
we must export in order to pay interest on
our debts, must have relief. Before we
go further than that we ought to be satis-
fled that nothing we can do in the regular
way will avoid or avert disaster. It is
not honest to say “A national emergency
has arisen and it is necessary to rob so-
and-so” if we have not made every possible
effort to get through without breaking con-
tracts and storing up trouble for ourselves
in the future. In this case what have we
done? What economies, for instance, have
we made?
The Limelight Lovers.
j N what has become known as the Elwood
murder cage a artist, whose only
connection with the matter was that he was
. ,
to the victim was cross-examined
detectives at Melbourne police head-
Quarters for several hours*. He gave «n 10
minutes an account of his movements on
the night of the murder which could have
been verified, one would think, inside half
an hour; but it was three days before the
newspapers were told that the statements of
the gentleman who had been “grilled”
according to the finest traditions of the
Yankee talkies had been proved up to the
hilt.
On November 19 last the N. S. Wales
police, acting on a request from Melbourne,
arrested at a country town a man who was
charged with the murder of a girl in Mel-
bourne a fortnight earlier. This man de-
cJared that he was in N. S. Wales at the
time the crime was committed, but his
statements were not tested. Instead, he was
nt t( ? M o e Q bou |? e ’ kept in custody till
wWp JhL a* mq T + ’
where three women, one man and an eight-
year-old girl “identified” him. Part of the
evidence given by the police at this inquest
was that the accused said he was at an
auction sale at Griffith (N.S.W.) on the
day of the murder. A Melbourne detective
declared that such a sale never took place,
Three months after the arrest of the sus-
pected man he was taken back to N. S.
Wales and his alibi was established by 13
reputable witnesses. Furthermore it was
made clear that the auction sale the man
said he attended did take place.
There is no scintilla of excuse for such
stupid blundering. It has become obvious
that the crime-detection methods of the
Melbourne police stand in need of thorough-
going revision. The day of the old-style
cop who strutted about importantly, told
the reporters he had a clue —that and noth-
ing more—and then waited for some snitch
to give the criminal away, has gone. With
it should go the modern practice of con-
fiding to the newspapers every suspicion a
not-notably intelligent detective force en-
tertains and the habit of regarding every
suspected person as a liar whose story isn’t
worth investigating. In the place of these
undesirable features there should be an in-
fusion, if not of brilliant brains, at least
of commonsense and a spirit of fair play.
*
N.S.W. Labor Objects to Bilking.
Sydney’s “Labor Daily” complains that
bookmakers are bilking the Government
which wants to bilk its creditors. Bookies
are responsible for the collection and pay-
ment into the Treasury of the 10 per cent,
tax on winning bets, and the paper bitterly
asserts that some of them are “bringing
disgrace on a profession which is founded
entirely on trust” (so is lending money to
a State Government, for that matter) by
falsifying their sheets or “working a sort
of code” with big punters who book their
bets. In the result they weigh in light, as
the Government proposes to do on quarter-
day; indeed, the more brazen “make no
secret of the fact that they look on the
Lang tax solely as a money-spinner on their
behalf.”
It is all very sad; still, a little trotting
club at Richmond has shown how the tax-
payers can be protected from these bookies,
though so far it has not shown how the
bondholders can be protected from this
Government. Finding business bad, the
Richmond club tried dispensing with
bookies and relying on a primitive tote,
worked by hand. The experiment was a
striking success, for revenue from betting
privileges, previously £6O to £7O a meet-
ing, went up to £166; and, with prize-money
increased from £175 to £4OO, there was “a
record nomination of 148,” at £2 a nag.
Moreover, the “S. M. Herald” is a witness
that “there was a great proportion of triers,”
an unusual thing at “The Red Hots”; while
prices were good though three dividends
were paid on each race—backers of a horse
that won a double received £lO 10s. 6d. for
10s. on the second event. It is safe to
say that the returns to the successful
punters, and to the club and the Treasury,
would have been greater still had “straight-
out,” “place” and “doubles” machines been
in operation. But even without that im-
provement there will be no more book-
makers at Richmond, nor is there likely to
be any shop betting on the races there.
Shop bookmakers dislike betting “tote
odds.”
The problem of the McShortodds who
bilks could be solved by providing “straight-
out,” “place” and “doubles” machines on
all metropolitan courses and reducing the
deductions, now outrageous, from 12 \ per
cent, plus fractions and unclaimed divi-
dends, to 84 per cent. Then there would be
an exodus of confirmed punters from the
starting-price shops to the racecourse, with
a corresponding increase in the revenue
from the racecourse-admission tax. Perth
and Kalgoorlie have “straightout” and
“place” machines, and they work so satis-
factorily that the Government’s tote revenue
has steadily risen to £61,100 last year. In
N. S. Wales, with six times the population
and a dozen times the amount of racing,
there has been a persistent decline from
£281,800 in 1921-22 to £193,100 in 1929-30
the result of having only one unattractive
variety of tote and taking too much from it.
• ♦
Inflation as a Novelist Sees It.
Feuchtwanger’s “Success,” probably the
greatest novel of the year, offers Australia
useful social, political and economic les-
sons. The action takes place in Bavaria
before, during and after the inflation; and
Bavaria, in its wealth and remoteness, and
in the easy-going, pleasure-loving nature
of its inhabitants, bears much the same
relation to northern Germany that Aus-
tralia does to Britain.
Gradually the reader grasps what the
author is telling him. A few tricky poli-
ticians and gambling capitalists (mostly
Americans) do well out of the inflation in
the beginning, and are able to gorge them-
selves with food, drink themselves sick, buy
hungry girls.
But the workers begin to suffer almost at
once:—
The general misery was great. The bread handed
out to grumbling customers at exorbitant prices
was hardly cold before the price soared up again.
A roll cost three marks, a kilogramme of margarine
440 marks; one paid 80 marks for a haircut.
And now the revolution approaches:—
The dollar was already worth 24,613 marks, a
pound of meat cost 3500 marks, a mug of beer
1020 marks. Tuberculosis and child mortality in-
creased. Crowds swarmed round the beer-halls on
the lookout for crusts of bread, cheese-rinds and
dregs of beer.
The agitators redouble their efforts, claim-
ing that “at every lamp-post there must
swing a corpse,” and “the souls in those
starved and frozen bodies caught the spark
and glowed and seethed.” The rising fol-
lows—street battles, private shootings and
stranglings. Finally, the reconstruction is
reached with its own particular horrors; and
peace of a sort.
The picture might have been drawn in any
one of a score of communities which went
in for inflation after the war. The writer
seems to have had a purpose in choosing
Bavaria. Southern Germans are naturally
the kindliest of people. But apparently a
ruined currency is capable of turning saints
into devils; or, rather, of giving the devils
which every society possesses a chance to
impose their wills on the saints.


THIS YEAR.
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to conserve carefully and to spend wisely,
it is now. In most cases incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and consequently
reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money —it is just as much a matter of careful, useful
spending, but obviously the saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully. It costs nothing, but will help
you to help yourself.
wcaltb Savings JIM of Australia
(.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is rather difficult, as far away as
London is, to estimate the exact import-
ance of Lang, and it isn’t easy to do so even
here. But he is local boss of the most popu-
lous State, and his State supplies the biggest
part of the Red element in the Federal Gov-
ernment party. He is the loudest aind most
cantankerous noise in Australian politics,
and is the only head of a Government in
the empire who has declared for* default,
which involves secession and breakage of the
Commonwealth. He hasn’t been deposed,
and not one member of his big majority has
quitted him. so there is a natural suspicion
in London that the Loud Roar from Auburn
may really speak for Australia in this
matter.
The playboys have had another exciting
week. Obeying Mr. Graves, of the State
A.L.P. executive, Mr. Beasley quitted his
Ministerial post at Canberra to open the
Labor campaign for East Sydney, and to
declare, as did the candidate, Mr. Ward, that
Labor was committed to the Lang plan of
refusing to meet the public interest bill. The
Federal Labor Caucus thereupon rejected the
If the candidate for East Sydney could only
be a Siamese twin.
Lang plan and affirmed its devotion to the
Theodore plan of inflating the currency. Mr.
Kenneally, of the Federal A.L.P. executive,
announced that if Mr. Ward championed the
Lang plan, and not the Theodore plan, Mr.
Ward would be declared “black.” Friends
of Mr. Ward suggested that he might con-
vert himself, in a political sense, into a sort
of Siamese twin for the period of the elec-
tion and advocate both plans. Mr. Graves
next dashed into the hullabaloo with both
fists flying and shouting at the top of his
voice; the burden of his remarks was that
if the 20 Federal Labor members from N. S.
Wales (four of them are Ministers) didn't
muster in East Sydney and whoop for the
Lang plan he would excommunicate them
all. Meanwhile, ex-Minister Lyons has inti-
mated that he is sick and tired of hullabaloos,
and papers like the “S. M. Herald,” them-
selves a little agitated, have urged him to
leave the playboys and make himself Prime
Minister, if he can.
During the N.S.W. election campaign
Lang “repudiated repudiation.” Now that
he finds he can’t borrow he is ready to repudi-
ate repudiating repudiation.
N.S.W. Labor boss Graves won his last
wrangle with Federal Labor boss Kenneally
(it was when Seale and Conroy headed rival
State Labor executives), and so far he has
had distinctly the better of the present
bauney. The scared Kenneally has fallen
back on the idiotic device of an inter-State
conference. It will cost thousands, like the
A.C.T.U. conference which has been raging-
in Sydney, and, like that absurd gathering,
will be productive of silly cackle and noth-
ing else. If our Labor-unionists had half
the money which has been thrown away by
their brainless and spineless leaders on con-
ferences, or if half the money wasted on
mere windbaggery had been put into solid
industrial enterprises, they would be in a
far better position than they are to-day.
This year’s Vic. railway deficit is now-
expected to reach £2,027,000, or seven times
more than Hogan reckoned on in his Budget.
Railway unionists who posed as experts sug-
gested that it would be under £1,000,000.
“Flapdoodle!” was Hogan’s comment, but
neither he nor the men who primed him in
September are entitled to boast. What has
been demonstrated beyond cavil is the urgency
of the economies the Commissioners have
been trying to get from Arbitration Court and
Classification Board.
One of the minor tragedies of the time is
that, in order to vote down repudiationists
and inflationists, it is necessary to support
Nationalists of the fatuous
“good-as-Labor” type. Cour-
tenay, the Nat. candidate for
East Sydney, proudly declares
himself “as good a Labor man
as I ever was.” Marr, M.P.,
says: “If you want to vote
for Mr. Lang you will vote for
Mr. Ward; if you want to
vote for Mr. Scullin you must
vote for Mr. Courtenay.” Now,
is there anyone in East Syd-
ney or N. S. Wales, out of
Callan Park, who wants to
vote for Mr. Scullin? These
N.S.W. Nats, don’t know how
to run an election, and would
never win one if their oppo-
nents didn’t beat themselves.
On their way back to Mel-
bourne from Canberra three
State Premiers were shocked
to read in a paper that the
London “Times” regretted it
could see “no sign of a firm
resolution by the Australian
Governments to cut their
throats according to their
cloth.” Somebody suggested
that it was not too late to
gratify the “Times” and said
he had a razor in his trunk.
Then metropolitan dailies
were secured, and they showed
that Printing House-square
had used “coats” instead of
“throats.”
At the last redistribution four Federal
electorates were named after Barton, Martin,
Reid and Forrest, and it was arranged that
if any naming had to be done in Victoria
(the census disclosed thait it wasn’t neces-
sary) Deakin would be first choice. A new
Vic. seat is to emerge from the reshuffle now
in progress, but if officialdom has its way it will
be called Gardiner. However worthy Gar-
diner may have been, Deakin was a greater
figure. The A.N.A., which was thought to
be asleep, is demanding that this tribute
should be paid to the memory of its most
illustrious member.
Slang’s tax on wages works out idiotically in
some cases. Men on a Sydney building job
earned £4 19s. 2d. for a week’s work, and
4s. was deducted from each envelope for tax
—ls. for each complete £l. Some of their
mates put in a bit of overtime, for which
they were entitled to 10d., making their
wages £5. The tax on £5 is 55., so for
toiling 15 minutes longer than the men
alongside them they got tuppence less!
Queensland’s Moore, like Westralia’s
Mitchell, says his State will cut adrift from
N. S. Wales if Slang is allowed to default,
and, Tasmania’s McPhee may ask his people
to express their views at a referendum. And
Slang, without intending it, has revived the
New State movements in northern N. S.
Wales and the Riverina. Earle Page likens
the position of his part of the country to
that of West Virginia, which was dragged
into the Civil War against its will. It is
not a very happy parallel, nor will there be
When they all secede from Jack.
any default if the Scullidores have a spark
of the courage shown by Andrew Jackson
when Calhoun, of South Carolina, tried to
“nullify” (as he called it) the U.S. tariff.
By regulation issued under Bruce’s Trans-
port Workers’ Act, which was introduced for a
different purpose, Attorney-General Brennan
has contrived to restore the preference which
the Waterside Workers’ Federation lost after
its 1928 strike, though returned soldiers
licensed prior to November, 1928, are to
share it. Three High Court Judges have
decided, two dissenting, that the regulation
is valid. “And now,” say the A.C.T.U. stal-
warts, “let’s have another strike.”
“Mr. Beasley, who is merely an assistant Minister, set the
Labor campaign in motion in East Sydney, the Prime Minister
being ignored.”
COOK'S OFFSIDER : “There’s dirty weather cornin’ up,
skipper, so you go an’ wash the dishes — I’ll look
after the ship.”
The Victorian police have had no luck
of late in crime detection. That James
McMahon should have been arrested, dis-
charged, rearrested and held for weeks when
he was in a position to prove—and did prove
when he was given a chance —that he wasn’t
within 500 miles of the scene of the Ormond
murder on the date of the murder is a sting-
ing indictment of their methods. McMahon
has no legal claim for redress and
compensation, but ho has the strongest moral
one. The very hideousness of the crime
charged against him ought not to be over-
looked when the injustice inflicted on him is
taken into account.
Premiers’ conferences may serve some
purpose as disclosing what individual
heads of Governments think about cer-
tain problems, but as a means of devis-
ing concerted action they are obviously
futile unless every Premier can guaran-
tee that he is the accepted spokesman of his
colleagues and his party. And this, unfor-
tunately, is what no Labor Premier can
claim to be and some dare not try to be.
The Premiers came to an agreement in Mel-
bourne last August, and Scullin undertook
that the Commonwealth Government wo-uld
carry it out; but when his party objected he
caved in. They came to another agreement,
or the majority of them did, the other day,
and Scullin bound himself once more to do
liis part in putting it into effect. And now
he is not to be even suffered to fight a by-
election on the question of whether what he
says shall go or not. The Labor candidate
for East Sydney directly disclaims all that
Scullin undertook. Premiers’ conferences
are due for a rest.
In his policy speech at Auburn Slang said
“For many years to come N. S. Wales must
continue to borrow money for its develop-
ment” ; and when he had the opportunity he
borrowed every pound he could lay his hands
on. In the one full year (1920-21) for
which he was Treasurer to Storey-Dooley
he squandered £14,701,000 of loan funds.
When his own Government was in office his
loan expenditure amounted to £11,277,000 in
1925-26 and £14,069,000 in 1926-27. On
June 30 last N. S. Wales owed £270,908,000,
involving an annual interest bill of
£13,484,100, of which £7,462,800 was pay-
able in London, £5,343,000 in Australia and
£677,600 in New York. So a 50 per cent,
default in payment of interest would amount
to less than half of the Slang loan expendi-
ture in 1920-21 and 1926-27, and it would
mean a long farewell to loan issues, and the
sale of stock and bonds over the counter, and
the discounting of Treasury bills, if it didn’t
also mean a boycott of N. S. Wales goods.
Victoria has got at last to the point of
holding an inquiry, before a Judge and two
others into the grievances of British settlers
who were invited, after the war, to come
and receive a hearty and commodious wel-
come in the smallest and most crowded main-
land State. The settlers say they were
strangers and were badly taken in. There
are 311 separate grievances. Victoria had
little decent public estate available, so its
rulers spent more than all the other States
combined in buying out old settlers at boom
prices to put new people on. They laid out
£35,947,700 in this way, and the Hughes
and Bruce Governments egged them on,
though any amount of good Crown land was
available in their own Federal Territory and
in Queensland and Westralia.
Margaret Sanger, at whose instigation
a measure making the teaching of birth
control legal is being introduced in the
United States Senate, is the lady who
tried to carry the doctrine to Japan, as
the country which seemed to be most in need
of it, a few years ago. The authorities
promptly took alarm and refused her admis-
sion, but the controversy she started has
lasted. In fact, it is growing louder as
Japan’s annual human surplus approaches
the million.
Senator Moran, of the Irish Free State,
now seeing Australia in the course of a
world tour, is very different from the dis-
tressful stranger from Erin that we used to
know. This is his brief published summary
of his little Dominion :
It is in a better condition economically than any
other part of the British Empire. Four years ago
the number of unemployed was 40,000, and it was
down to 20,000 when I left. The last budget, with
no increase of expenditure or of taxation, showed
a surplus of nearly £200,000. At the same time
taxation was about £7 per head, with a national
debt of less than £6 per head. A recent loan of
£6,000,000 at 41 per cent, was over-subscribed.
Senators and the like are often loose in
their figures. In 1928, which is as far as-
the statistics go, births exceeded deaths in
the Free State by 17,384; but as depar-
tures exceeded arrivals by 22,537 there was
the frequent loss. Ireland exports its un-
employed, which is handy, but for a thinly-
peopled land is not very helpful. The last
budget produced a deficit, though there was
sanguine expectation of a surplus. With
two Houses of Parliament (214 paid mem-
bers) and a Supreme Court and a High
Court, and a Governor-General (£lO,OOO per
annum) for an area about equal to Tas-
mania, th’c Free State is evidently feeling
cheerful, but it is no very safe example to
follow. It seems, according to Mr. Moran,
to be on the top of a little artificial boom
at the moment.
A question repeatedly asked by visitors
to the Macquarie-street talking-shop is
“When is this crowd going to do any real
work?” It was alleged during the election
campaign that thousands of people were up
in arms against the Bavinshaws’ western-
lands measures; but few of the 54 Labor
Assemblymen have shown any interest in
The N.B.W. Leg. Assembly deliberates on
the Western Lands Bill.
the Western Lands Amendment Bill, with
which the House has been -occupied for weeks
—no other job of any importance has even
been attempted. The “Hansard” reports of
the dreary debates are sprinkled with the
words “House counted,” “Committee
counted.” Yet day sittings were restored
for the convenience of these legislative loaf-
ers, and they receive their handsome salaries
and privileges for a full-time job.
From the wife of a civil servant in a Vic.
country town: —
I wish Mr. Scullin would reduce the wages of the
Civil Service. One way and another nearly everyone
is on half-pay here, so we are like pariahs. When
our friends meet to chat socially of hard times, what
can we say ? They aren’t our hard times. Our income
has really appreciated with the decreased cost of
living. I feel like a highwayman when I buy fruit
at its present low price, knowing what the grower
is up against. Voluntary giving will not rehabilitate
our self-respect. If we subscribe royally to some
deserving project, the local verdict is that ‘lt s
easy for them that’s sheltered to be generous.”
Or “The way they can throw money about with just
as good folk nearly broke!” At every turn, so to
speak, ,we are presented with figurative whifie
feathers. No, Mr. Scullin isn’t so much our friend
as perhaps he thinks he is.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Ballyhooley”: Pat Whelan, a Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) publican whose joviality hid . a deal
of shrewdness, was a fervid Irish patriot who
would talk for hours on how happily he
would die if he could only see a Parliament
on College Green once more, which by bad
luck he never did. Pat went for a trip
to the land of his fathers early in the cen-
tury, and returned with, among other impedi-
menta, a box which he opened with due cere-
mony in his crowded bar one Saturday night.
ALL FOR THE LITTLE DARLING.
“What did you give baby for his first birthday?”
“We opened his money-box and bought the little darling a lovely
electric iron.”
“Phwat is ut, bhoys?” he told the curious
crowd. “Just a bit of moss from the grave
of Parnell, that I brought away meself.” It
was brown, unimpressive-looking stuff, but
after Pat had intimated that drinks were
on the house, and the toast was that of
Ireland’s greatest leader, the moss seemed
to take on a rarer quality. Every customer
there begged a scrap and got it, as a special
favor, not only on that night but for long
afterwards. The quantity didn’t seem to get
appreciably less either. Presently several
of the Mulgaland publicans, who were mostly
Irish and friends of Pat’s, had a bit of
the Parnell moss on shovr. One patriot kept
it mounted in a glass-case, and doubtless
found it a capital stimulus to trade. It was
years before the cargo disappeared; in fact,
it lasted nearly as long as its importer, who
died in the war years. If other Home Rulers
from overseas who visited the shrine helped
themselves as generously, the churchyard
must have presented rather a bare appear-
ance.
i'fi % * *
“Ex-Matlow” : The “way they have in the
Navy” in the matter of courts-martial,
though it seems a bit of red-tapery in such
cases as the trial of Commander Blake
because the floor of Napier Harbor rose and
bumped the bottom of his sloop, has its good
points. One of these is that it isn’t possible
at a later date to rake the matter up again
and give a distorted view of it. Also the
Navy in these days tempers its justice with
a good deal of mercy. Here’s a case in
point. An Invercargill (M.L.) lad enlisted
in 1926, and was subsequently drafted to
the cruiser Dunedin as a telegraphist. When
the ship was at Suva in 1928 he disappeared
one dark night, and it was believed that he
was drowned. A few weeks ago he was
arrested at a village near his home town
and taken to Auckland. There he was court-
martialled, the president of the court being
that same Commander Blake who had to
hand over his sword to a similar tribunal a
few days ago. The youngster wasn’t sen-
tenced to be shot at dawn or imprisoned.
The Court mildly remarked that up to the
time he deserted he had a very good record,
so an acquittal was entered and he was
granted a discharge. He now has a job on a
newspaper at Otautau, where he was
arrested.
“C.Q.”: Two small boys
in St. Kil d a have
evolved a clever swindle,
their unemployed parents’
necessities having sharp-
ened their wits. One
hoy calls at houses with
promising gardens, and
asks for flowers to make a
wreath to lay on the grave
of Uncle Joe, who has un-
happily passed away. Some-
times he gets a shilling,
sometimes a nice bouquet.
He goes to his cobber, wait-
ing in a neighboring street
with a handcart, and hands
him the flowers, together
with a plan showing the
houses that have been
operated on. Cobber sells
the flowers to other house-
holders, who buy readily
enough, seeing how fresh
the blooms look, many of
them still glistening with
dew.
Gilbert Mant (London) : Some of Bondi s
giants may yet be immortalised in bronze.
The other week the “Manchester Guardian”
published an article of mine on Aus-
tralian surfing with some photographs
of surf carnivals and surf-board riders. Now
the head of a big firm of Manchester sculp-
tors has written to me for the photographs
so that they may study “the magnificent
physique and beauty of the Australian men.”
“Mells”: England has produced another
spendthrift on the lines of “Jubilee” Benzon,
who wrote a book,
or got someone _to
write one for him,
with the alluring
title of “How I
Spent a Quarter of
a Million in Two
Years.” The re-
cently deceased pro-
digal, one Godfrey
Mundy, dissipated
the same sum in
much the same
time, but refrained
from writing a book
about it. He pro-
bably found it
easier to get
through his pile
than Benzon, who
lived too soon to be
able to spend
money on motor-
cars, much less
aeroplanes, though
he did hit on the
idea of handing
diamond pins to
London cabmen.
Mundy contented
himself with giving
jewellery to act-
resses, and equally
hackneyed methods
of extravagance.
There were other
differences, too;
Benzon, after the
smash, was left
with a few pounds
a week to live on
and make half-
crown bets on race-
courses, where he
at least served to
point a moral.
Mundy spent every
stiver, and, but for
his father, would
have been buried
as a pauper. Neither
was really in the
same class as a
pictm’esque spend-
thrift with John
Mytton, the sport-
ing Shropshire
squire of a cen-
tury ago. but they did their best with such
opportunities as they had.
* * * *
“Pursuivant”: These are hard times for
deposed royalties and near-royalties, as is
shown by the recent experiences in England
of Rupprecht Wittlebach, once Crown Prince
of Bavaria. Cables say he came over to put
the hard word on King George, of whom he is
a distant relative through his ancestress Mary
of Modena, one of the last of the Stuart
blood. However, he doesn’t seem to have
been able to get past the pickets, and has
been forced to return to a humble flat which
the country he once practically ruled as
regent allows him in a corner of his old
palace at Munich. Rupprecht has always been
accursed among the Allied troops as the
commander of the section in which the Ger-
A RESPECTABLY ENGAGED COUPLE.
VISITOR: “Oh, look, dear, at those two naughty dogs tearing up the garden."
PEGGY: “Those ain’t two naughty dogs. They's Fido and his fiancee.”
mans first launched, a poison-gas attack —
that was at Ypres, when the Canadians and
the Guards found themselves up against
something new in warfare. The High Com-
mand started it, of course, but the ex-Crown
Prince has carried the baby ever since.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: In the midst of the worst
depression in her history, all Japan is anxi-
ously waiting for an item Of palace news due
at the end of this month or the beginning of
the next. Although the reigning family is
regarded as of divine origin, Japanese talk
about its domestic affairs with far less
prudery than the Briton does about the
English royal house. The burning topic is
whether the Empress Nagako will give birth
to a girl or a boy. She has already had two
girls; an Imperial edict of 1889 fixed the
throne in the male line. The present incum-
bent is the 125th sovereign in direct succes-
sion from the first Emperor Jimmu Tenno,
660 b.c. Any professor of history who says
differently in Japan is liable to lose his job.
* * * *
“Munchausen”: To do poor old Louis de
Rougemont—or Grien —justice (B. 18/2/’3l),
the tales that brought him such a reputa-
tion as a liar were merely embellishments of
facts. Everyone familiar with tropical Aus-
tralia knows the huge evening flights of the
giant fruit-eating bats which the ordinary
citizen calls flying-foxes without correction,
though De Rougemont earned contumely by
referring to them as wombats. Turtle rid-
ing, another of his feats which was held up
to ridicule, is a commonplace among picnic
parties on the Barrier Reef to-day. Louis
may have been a romancer, but he never
worked on the imaginative lines of Baxter,
a master mariner who professed to have
explored New Guinea, and wrote a book
describing how, when he had shot a buffalo,
an immense eagle swooped down and carried
it off in its claws. This happened at the
foot of a 30,000 ft.-high mountain, the lati-
tude and longitude of which Baxter was
fool enough to supply. It occurred to some-
one to check his figures, when the position
was found to be in one of the deepest parts
of the Western Pacific. That ended it, and
the explorer and his book —now very rare—
went out of fashion.
:!=***
“ Jungor”: The Dutch' treasure ship that
foundered at the mouth of the Moore
River (W.A.) 280 years ago was supposed
to have had a big load of guilders among her
treasure, but the handful of coins recovered
near the crumbling skeleton that came to
light a. few weeks ago (B. 11/2/’3l) turned
out to have been mostly Spanish dollars and
half-dollars. In addition, a coin of 1618,
bearing the images and superscription of
Albert and Isabella, was easily identified as
Austrian. Of course, this is no reason why
a Dutch ship shouldn’t have carried them ;
the seventeenth century was catholic enough
in the matter of currencies, and the
Spaniards probably minted more than any
contemporary nation. One of the coins has
the head of a Spanish Philip, possibly the
successor of the monarch who sent the
Armada against Britain.
“Chevroford”: .One of the most interest-
ing towns in Vic. is Buchan. It lies in
a lovely basin, watered by the willow-sliaciea
Buchan River; its climate, both winter anu
summer, entitles it to be called the Riviera
of Victoria. Its caves are as. remarkable
as any in Australia; the principal one, dis-
covered and explored with the aid of one
candle by Frank Moon in 1907, is half a
mile long, and descends 300 feet into strata
estimated by geologists to be 40 million years
old. Despite the Tourist Bureau’s crude
lighting system, here are spectacles of extra-
ordinary loveliness; and the genius for nom-
enclature that distinguished the people who
named our flowers was displayed in the
labelling of these beauties. “Cabbages,”
“Carrots” and “Rashers of Bacon” hang
cheek-by-jowl with “Inverted Tennis-courts”
and statues of eminent politicians. Some
idea of the age of the formations can be
gauged from the fact that the “Statue
of Queen Victoria,” which is quite as much
like the lady as the one in the Botanical
Gardens, Melbourne, took 400,000 years
to form, allowing 32,000 years for the for-
mation of one inch of stalactite. An oddity
of the place is the roots of a gum-tree
which have found their way to permanent
water through 150 feet of marble. All of
the marble for the Shrine of Remembrance
came from Buchan, and hundreds of tons
of it were shipped to London to build Aus-
tralia’s famous white elephant in the Strand.
* :!= * *
“Fourpenny”: English silver is preferred
to the Australian article just now, for
obvious if superficial reasons, and is carefully
set apart by banks and imprisoned by indi-
viduals, although its intrinsic value is really
smaller than that of our own ’rpo-and-emu
coinage. Silver fell to Is. 2Jd. an ounce at
the end of last year, and has gone lower since.
Eleven years ago, when it was fetching over
7s. an ounce, the British half-crown was
computed to be worth 3s. 4d. for what was
in it. Hence the reduction of the silver con-
tent of British coins by 50 per cent. What
with this, and the subsequent steady fall ‘in
the value of the metal, the silver in the
half-crown is worth less than fourpence to-
day. I don’t know how many penn’orth of
silver there is in the Australian florin, but
there must be more than that, for no great
reduction in the quality of the metal used
for coinage was made here.
* * * *
“Wellow”: The New York State legisla-
ture, it is announced, is considering a mea-
sure requiring motorists with convictions
against them to have the letters R.D. (Reck-
less Driver) affixed to the other informa-
tion on their number-plates. It seems a good
idea, and sets memory running back to the
days when David Copperfield began his edu-
cation at Oreakle’s with “Take Care —He.
Bites” placarded on his back. Similarly in
the hunting-field in England, 50 years ago, it
was no unusual thing to see a black-coated
horseman with the word “Kicker” ticketed
somewhere on his broad back as a warning
to those behind of his steed’s unpleasant pro-
clivities. But the information that a motorist
is a reckless driver wouldn’t be particularly
valuable to anyone approaching him from
behind. And how the R.D. is to be made
discernible otherwise isn’t stated.
ON THE AIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winds of the world, acclaimed in lyrics
rippling
Or ringing rhyme by countless sons of song,
From gentle Vergil to robustious Kipling,
From towered Camelot to Humpybong, .
Zephyrs and gales alike, you’re all in
harness;
Whither you blow is immaterial quite,
You scoff at space and make a mock at
farness.
What’s on the air to-night?
Sport, speeches, shipping, market prices,
weather,
Musical comedies and stocks and shares;
Songs that are redolent of Scottish heather,
And strains that breathe of Russian
steppes and bears;
Lectures by scholars of imposing tonnage,
Glib, feather-headed politicians’ skite,
Highbrow addresses, literary dunnage—
What's on the air to-night?
Winds of the world, loosed from JEolian
cavern
Across the waves and wealds at will you
blew,
Or so they reckoned at the Mermaid tavern —
How could they dream what you were
destined to?
A thousand pens have hymned your tameless
glories.
Now you must tote around, as fades the
light,
Your pack of household hints and bedtime
stories.
What’s on the air to-night?
Winds, once you only brought me, elfin-
faintly,
The Australasian seas’ protracted wash
(I wish communities would chant more
quaintly,
And politicians wouldn’t yell such tosh).
The old colloquial interrogation
“What’s in the wind?” no longer sounds
aright.
Turn on the tap! No matter what the
station,
We’ll soon be having aural demonstration
What’s on the air to-night.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Penfield”: There are lamentations in S.
Australia over the passing of the “Register,”
which seemed to be part of the State. In
fact, it was born as part of the State; for
the first number was printed in London as
an item of the official programme, and its
printer and plant were given a place in
the Buffalo, which brought the first settlers
to South Aus. That first printer was one
Thomas; Evan Kyffin Thomas w.as the last
managing partner under the old family rule,
which lasted until the Baillieu-Fink group in
Melbourne “absorbed” the “Register” three
or four years ago, following that by
“absorbing” also the “Advertiser,” and
so paving the way for an amalgama-
tion. Another of those first settlers
in South Aus. was an adventurous youth
named Skipper, a very young lawyer. He by-
and-bye married one of the printer Thomas’s
daughters, and their grandson is that Mervyn
THE REALIST.
HER SENTIMENTAL BOY: “Yes. But, dear,
imagination can carry you on its
wings anywhere.”
HIS (more or less his ) Practical Girl:
“Well, it’s no good to me. I’ve
tried it, and it’s dreadfully unsatis-
factory.”
G. Skipper who sits in The Bulletin’s
tallest chair in Melbourne. Among Austra-
lian papers only the “S. M. Herald” can
count more years than the “Register.” The
“S. M. Herald” was first issued (as a
weekly) on April 18, 1831, and at this
moment is making preparations for an im-
pressive centenary; followed the “Register”
(in London, June 18, 1836—in Adelaide,
June 4, 1837) ; Melbourne “Herald,” 1840;
and “N. Z. Herald,” 1841; Melbourne “Age”
did not arrive till 1854, and the Adelaide
“Advertiser” till 1858. Sydney’s “Govern-
ment Gazette” alone can remember playing
marbles with the “S. M. Herald” ; they are
the only two Australian publications left
that were born in. the ’thirties.
* * * *
“Fernie”: Here’s a little incident that will
help to explain why the Maorilander likes
the Maori. The day after the ’quake
that skittled Napier a big car piled with
provisions drew up on the marine parade
with a great screeching of brakes. On the
front seat sat two enormous natives, and a
third was perched precariously on the pyra-
mid of provender that towered from the back
department. “We want te heads,” said the
leader of this mission. Inhabitants tried
to find out whether they wanted the superin-
tendent of police or Commodore Blake. “No,
no,” shouted the Maori. “We want te ferra
tat run te earthquake.” So the doctor out-
side whose surgery the car had come to halt
was pressed into service as the general man-
ager of the cataclysm and so introduced.
With a beaming smile the leader of the relief
expedition strode back to the car and took
from underneath the seat a card about 12
inches square, on which was a large dab of
red sealing-wax and the legend “The . Com-
mon Seal of the Maori Welfare Association.
We come to help the pakeha brother.” The
natives swiftly unloaded their cargo and
were gone back to whence they came —and
where that was nobody knew, nor did any-
body know how the Maoris had learned of
the destruction of Napier and the urgent
need for food.
* * * *
“Nakh.”: The sartorial conventionality of
Sydney poets and painters (B. 4/2/’3l) is
matched by that of Melbourne artists. John
Longstaff dresses and looks like a Rotanan;
Streeton resembles a cavalry officer in
mufti; Mclnnes might be a hard-working
pendriver at the Treasury; and Harold
Herbert looks like a good fellow who
never got closer to Nature than the
nearest midget-golf course. The only
touch of the unusual in the art 'com-
munity of Melbourne is provided by the
Meldrum disciples, some of whom still carry
carefully-trimmed beards and moustaches.
This custom earns them even more abhor-
rence than their painting. A woman
artist spoke to me on the subject, mention-
ing one bearded member as making her shud-
der. “It’s so effeminate,” she declared. The
idea of hair on the face suggesting effemin-
acy struck me as humorous, but she was
quite serious.
sjt Jfc Hs HJ
“Feng-Shui” : The Chinese revolution has
apparently settled down at last, and it turns
out to be a family affair, like the Mongol
and Manchu invasions. The late Sun Yat-
Sen started it, and the present president,
Chiang, is his son-in-law. A sister-in-law of
Dr. Sun is the wife of Dr. Kung, the Min-
ister of Commerce, and a brother-in-law is
the Minister of Finance who made the revo-
lution possible. The only son of Sun Yat-Sen
is Minister of Railways. There is a Chinese
proverb, “The rich man, if he live on a
mountain-top, shall have relatives from a
distance,” and Sun’s relatives and connec-
tions have flocked to Nanking by every train
in quest of minor jobs about the family altar.
❖ ❖ * :J:
“Lord Luvus”: The Cormorant Club’s
periodical assassination of the shags on the
Murray may have the approval of the Games
and Fisheries Department (B. 18/2/’3l),
but doesn’t get the endorsement of an anato-
mist who was present at the latest butchery.
Out of scientific curiosity lie dissected a
couple of dozen of the victims. Less than
20 p.c. of the stomaches examined contained
remains of fish, but all contained traces of
yabbies. So the activities of the Cormorant
Club are, apparently, not assisting the fisher-
men so much as endangering the stability of
dams and irrigation works, of which the
crayfish is a notorious enemy.
“Pop Off”: As to unusual suicides (B.
4/2/’3l), how about this? The operator
was a Californian subject waiting for the
gallows in St. Quentin Prison, Sacramento.
He pulled off the hollow iron leg of his cot
and filled it with a mixture of water and
torn-up playing-cards from a pack given him
to pass the time. He jambed down the ends
pf the pipe until they were air- and steam-
tight, and then put his bomb over the oil-
heater in his cell, lying with his head close
by until the explosion took place. This, in
addition to blowing the inventor’s head to
pieces, wrecked half a dozen cells in the
same row, injuring some of the occupants.
The steam from the confined water in the
tube would have done the job by itself, hut
experts consider that the nitro-glycerine
freed from the cellulose of the torn-up cards
added to the force of the explosion.
* * * *
“Clerk”: The superstitious fear of 13
(B. 11/2/’3l) hardly seems to extend to
the railways. Yic. experience has been that
local passengers seldom worry about travel-
ling in a seat or berth numbered 13. Sleep-
ing berth No. 13 on the Melbourne-Sydney
limited is, in fact, one of the most popular
couches on that train, as regular inter-
Staters know it to be a lower berth in the
centre of the car.
* t- * ■ - *
“Hotham”; Melbourne was intrigued last
week with the story of an unusual, robbery.
The thieves drove up in the evening to a
closed store in a busy Richmond thorough-
fare, and entered by forcing the door. Walk-
ing in, they made a careful selection of goods,
loaded these on to their car before a number
of mildly interested spectators and departed.
No one made the slightest attempt to inter-
fere with the operations, save one youth
on a bicycle, who followed the car long
enough to get what was certainly a false
number. London had a parallel case a
couple of years ago. The thieves entered
a jeweller’s shop in Regent-street, and,
working in their shirt-sleeves and in leisurely
fashion, emptied the brilliantly-lit windows
of trays of valuable jewellery in full view of
people outside. AH these took it for granted
that the smart-looking party inside the plate-
glass were proprietors and their employees
engaged in re-dressing the windows, and the
marauders got away with their haul.
:jc * * *
“Oxmead”: De Rougemont found an
occasional defender even after he was ex-
posed (B. 18/2/’3l). I remember the long-
haired and fluent
Vosper, who was
running the “Cool-
gardie Miner” when
the London cables
were full of the Swit-
zer’s travellers’ tales,
arguing that they
mightn’t be all lies.
A man resembling
De Rougemont, he
pointed out, had
appeared in one of
the out-back gold-
fields settlements
some years before
and represented him-
self as having lived
with the blacks, only
to disappear mysteri-
ously again. Louis
was always cautious-
ly vague about dates
and localities. He
probably had seen
something of the in-
side of Westralia,
but it was hard to
fix the part. Tales
almost as wild as his
used to drift in occa-
sionally. An old
prospector returned
from somewhere near
the S. Aus. border
with a yarn of hav-
ing come across a
six-fingered and six-
toed tribe of natives.
He stuck to it, too,
and his statement
was widely circu-
lated, although I
don’t know that any-
body believed him.
If he could have got
home to London he
might have made as.
big a hit as the ex-butler before the Iloyal
Society.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : A plebiscite is being planned
for Garden Week in Victoria whereby, it
is hoped, Australia’s national flower will be
settled once and for all. The list to be
placed before the people will include the
blossom of the Queensland wheel-tree, the
N.S.W. flame-tree, various flowering gums
and the Westralian
Christmas-tree. Some
of the candidates have
never been heard of
much less seen by the
majority of Victorians.
Even the waratah is
a rarity in Melbourne,
although there is a
flame-tree that grows
but does not flame in
the Botanic Gardens.
The suggestion that
the wattle should .be
nominated, as being
common to all States,
seems reasonable, but
the anti-wattle leagues
are as . ferociously
opposed to that blossom
as are their fellow right-
thinkers in Sydney.
They say it is unthinkable, because it
grows, in other countries. The retort that
the lion is the British national animal
though it doesn’t grow in England outside
zoological gardens is met with stony silence.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : A Court has given an Adel-
aide lawyer £lOO damages against a woman
for libel. She pleaded that it was true and
was written from a sense of duty. The
S.M. found that it certainly was a “privi-
leged occasion,” but that the statement was
untrue, and was so vitriolic as to become
“express malice,” which overrides the privi-
lege.
$ $ $ $
“Rechabite”: I don’t think that “Bill
O’C.” would describe Californian vineyards
as “about the most profitable on earth” if
he could see them to-day. I was in Fresno,
California, eight months ago, and found the
grapegrowers unanimous in their tale of woe.
Raisins were hardly worth producing, so
low had the price fallen; grape juice, formerly
WHEN NATURE GIVES IT BEST.
“I met a girl to-day who makes up jokes.”
“What, for the Paterson girls?”
“No, silly! For a swell beauty parlor.”
a lucrative side-line, had fallen right out of
popular favor. Asking the cause I was told
that the thirsty American citizen, who for-
merly turned grape juice into what he mis-
called “wine,” has discovered it is much
cheaper and easier to manufacture syn-
thetic gin from grain alcohol and certain
essences. This dreadful spirit can be swal-
lowed within 24 hours after it is concocted,
and is often consumed at once.
“Coif”: In these days of moratoriums it
is gratifying to hear that some folk are
right on time with the rent. The City of
London has just made its annual payment
of 10 horseshoes and G 1 horsenails to the
Crown, the same having been due and col-
lected every year since the Middle Ages.
When the- Knights Hospitallers were ex-
HOW SHE FELT.
“Don't talk to me about lawyers, my dear. I’ve had so much
trouble over the property that I sometimes wish my
husband hadn’t died!”
pelled from England, as the Templars had
been, the land on which the Temple stands
was bought for the Crown by professors of
the Common Law in 1311. One section of
the Temple lands, used as a tilting yard, was
not included in this purchase, and was taken
over by the City of London. It is ages since
its boundaries have been identified, and the
city has no earthly idea where the area is
to-day. Nevertheless the actual rent for the
mythical holding is demanded annually by
the King’s Remembrancer, a glorified debt-
collector, and the City parts up like a sports-
man.
*** . *
“Pipards”: I suspect that a good deal of
gold is hoarded in other countries beside
India. An affluent city business man once
admitted to me that he drew £5OO in sov-
ereigns from his bank at the outset of the
war and stowed it away in safe deposit
against possible contingencies. Sovereigns
can’t be obtained by that simple process nowa-
days, but there are far more persons than
there were in war-time who would cheerfully
put up with loss of interest if they could only
lock a few hundred away. Not all the fur-
tively preserved gold went back to the banks,
either. Food-hoarding was common enough
in England at the outset of the war, but
it lost vogue when offenders were prosecuted
without fear or favor. One of the first con-
victions recorded was against an admiral and
baronet well known in Australia.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: Among the things that have
been steadily shrinking in value with the
development of motors and aeroplanes is the
gold railway pass of the politician. In the
days when almost all long journeys by land
and a good many short ones had to be made
by train, the Parliamentarian got far more
out of his pass than lie can expect to-day,
when there are more comfortable and speedy
means of transit. Even the steamship com-
panies are probably asked for fewer conces-
sions from travelling law-makers than they
were 20 years ago. In the early days of Federa-
tion there was a Westralian Senator who
spent so much time on the water between
Melbourne and Fremantle—he was a K.C.,
and a fat brief would always drag him
away from his legislative duties—that he
came to be known as “the member for the
Great Australian Bight.” Had he lived in
our time he would doubtless have become
“the member for the Nullarbor Plain,” for
the Trans, line still carries more deadheads
than any other.
THE MILLIONS CLUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When idle in the market-place,
And someone has desired you
To tell him why, you don’t reply
That nobody has hired you.
That Scripture phrase no doubt conveys
Exactly where’s the rub ;
But nowadays a fellow says
He’s joined the Millions Club,
Worse luck!
The blinking Millions Club!
Time was when severed from your job,
Its wages and enslavements,
Its sweets and sours, protracted hours
You spent surveying pavements.
That subtle statement’s out of date
Forced idleness to dub.
The dinkum oil for vanished toil
Is "Joined the Millions Club,
Old man,
I’m in the Millions Club.”
And still the politicians rant,
And back and fill and swither,
"With never cure for all we endure
Excepting blazing blither.
A broken reed is Lang, indeed,
Cowed Scullin but a scrub,
And day by day more take their way
Towards the Millions Club.
That’s that!
The teeming Millions Club !
N.s.w.
IFORD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
If .... GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
„ , .. London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
plri.rni eS T hr °l lghoUt ? ueen . sland > New f South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
Oa rn General Banking “I nd Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
r
JwSW-V
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays:—
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. “Argus”), 57, on Ist; Q.
Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 68, J. B. Cramsie (N.S.W.
Meat Industry Board), 60, and N.S.W. Collector of
Customs Barkley, 62, on 2nd; ex-High Court Justice
Powers, 78, author Rev. Dr. Frank Boreham, 60,
G. C. Klug (Bewick, Moreing and Co.), 56, and
S. Aus. former Minister of Education Mclntosh, 43,
on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 67, and novelist Edward
Dyson, 66, on 4th; Tic. Senator Lawson, 56, on
sth; Major-Gen. J. H. Bruche, 58, J. Newman
Barker (Melb.), 80, French Consul-Gen. Nettement,
56, and D. G. Stead, F.L.S. (Syd.), 54, on 6th;
Dr. A2neas McDonnell (Toowoomba), 67, on 7th;
Professor-knight Colin MacKenzie (Director of Aust’n
Institute of Anatomy, Canberra), 54, and artist
Tom Roberts, 75, on 9th; artist John Longstaff, 69,
on 10th; Walter Bennett, M.L.A., 67, and H. P.
Beaver (Adelaide’s Town Clerk), 63, on 11th;
Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 52, medico-
knight Richard Stawell (Melb.), 67, J. R. Collins
(High Commissioner’s Office), 62, and Geo. S.
Knowles (Federal Attorney-Gen.’s Dept.), 49, cn
14th; Archbishop Hayden (Hobart), 63, Walter
Lucas, pioneer Island trader, 62, on 15th; S. Aus.
ex-Attorney-Gen. Homburg, 57, on 17th ; Prof. Holme
(Syd.), 60, novelist Bernard Cronin, 47, and Clem
Hill (S. Aus.), 54, on 18th; Vic. Governor Somers,
44, poet Arthur Bayldon, 66, J. Wallace Sandford
(Adel,), 52, and A. S. Rodgers (formerly M.H.R.
for Wannon), 56, on 20th; Major Marr, M.H.R., 51,
Vic. ex-Agent-Gen. Geo. Fairbairn, 76, E. W. Parkes
(Clerk of House of Reps.), 58, and novelist Roy
Bridges, 46, on 23rd; Lieut.-Col. H. G. Carter
(Syd.), 46, and John Livingston (formerly M.H.R.
for Barker), 75, on 24th; Vice-Admiral Ernest
Gaunt, 66, and Col. M. F. Bruxner, M.L.A., 49, on
25th; Vice-Admiral Wm. Clarkson, 72, Federal
Deputy-Opposition-leader Gullett, 53, and ex-Senator
de Largie, 72, on 26th; Professor-knight Wm.
Mitchell (Adel.), 70, and former Vic. Premier John
Allan, 65, on 27th; knight Walter James (a former
W.A. Premier), 68, S. J. Jacobs (Adel.), 78,
J. S. MacDonald (director N.S.W. Nat. Gallery),
53, and Sydney Pratt (gen. sec. Aust’n Journalists’
Ass’n), 44, on 28th; Prof. T. G. Tucker (Melb.),
72, W.A. Senator Colebatch, 59, and G. V. Brooks
(Speck’s Director of Education), 54, on 29th;
Speck’s Senator Sampson, 49, on 30th; Bishop-
Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst), 51, Adelaide-born Prof.
W. Lawrence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel Prize winner),
41, and Federal Speaker Makin, 42, on 31st.
Edward Ward, tlie selected Labor-candi-
date for East Sydney, doesn’t show any signs
of the row that is raging around him.
Though the Federal Government is supposed
to have a financial policy, Ward’s instruc-
tions from his immediate masters, the State
executive of the A.L.P., are to support Lang’s
financial policy, which both Scullin and his
Treasurer repudiate. Ward, who used to
Labor’s nominee in East Sydney.
be a tramway-man, came into public notice
first as a Labor candidate for Flinders, one
of the Sydney City Council wards, which he
won.. He sits at the feet of Jock Garden,
and is, as old Henry Parkes said of another
man well known in East Sydney, “as fluent
as a waterspout.” Incidentally, among the
mob he defeated for the nomination were
Packwood, who had the “trammies’ ” back-
ing, and C. E. Trefle, a brother of
Labor’s best-known Minister for Lands of
the McGowen-Holman days.
Between them, Henry J. Hedger and his
son, S. W. Hedger, have just completed 75
years of service to the blind. The father
has been manager of the Sydney Industrial
Blind Institution for half a century, while
his son is secretary of the Victorian Insti-
tute. Tens of thousands of blind people
have been taught useful trades by the
two, the younger man’s specialty being
aesthetics. His orchestras, dancers, pianists
and actors are well known at Melbourne
concerts. It is an interesting sight to see
the prompter prompting from Braille script
and performers off-stage taking a last feci
at their parts before making an entrance.
The man who
is doing more
than anybody
else to keep the
C o m m u nists
from taking
charge of the
unemployed in
Melbourne
is Albfert Monk,
assistant sec to
the Trades Hall
Council, and for
his activities in
that direction
he has been
twice attacked
and has receiv-
ed numerous
threats against
his life. He is
the youngest
man in a big
official position
in the trades-
union move-
ment ; but, then,
he began early
—at the age of
19 he was sec-
retary of a con-
ference of Fed-
eral unions, and
later presented
the workers’
case to the
Royal Commis-
sion on the basic
A. E. MONK, part of
the brains of Melbourne
Trades Hall.
wage. Monk’s big job at present is represent-
ing the Trades Hall on the Government’s
unemployment relief committee.
Lang has been 17 years in Parliament;
he was one of the 18 new members when
the Assembly met on Dec. 23, 1913. His
first election was a closely-contested one;
by 5641 vffies to 5238 he managed to wrest
the Granville seat from the sitting member,
Nobbs.
Lazarus was raised from the dead after
four days, but Campbell Jones has brought
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” out from its tomb
after four years. In the preliminary dis-
cussion it was recalled that Angus Mackay
and Randal Carey were the founders.
Mackay was the man who knew about news-
papers : he had been finding the Bendigo
“Advertiser” a little goldmine for many
years, and he wanted to show N. S. Wales
the blessings of Protection. Later on there
was to be many a hard fight on the board
over this subject, and Mackay retired and
went back to Bendigo, where he died and was
buried, and where his old friend Dr. Nish
orated over him for the guid space of one
hour. A great man for his town was Angus
Mackay, sometime its M.P. and awhile the
colony’s Minister for Mines.
Charles Holdsworth, whose connection with
the Union S. S. Co. goes back to 1885, and
who has been managing director since 1914,
has retired. He was manager of the Black
Diamond line, which consisted of coastal
steamers whose home was Westport, when it
was taken over by the Union Co., and at
Westport he remained till 1891, when he was
appointed manager in the Speck. From 1898
to 1914 he was general manager. A knight-
hood came his way four years ago. David
Alexander Aiken, who succeeds to the manag-
ing directorship, became general manager
when Holdsworth went higher. He joined the
co. in 1883, starting on the bottom rung of
the ladder. By 1908 he had become assistant
general manager, and he was given a seat on
the directorate in 1915. A diplomatic, rea-
sonable man is Aiken, and he is remembered
with gratitude by countless sea-travellers
for whom he smoothed away difficulties.
Donald Norman Cameron, landowner,
who passed over in the Speck recently,
sat in two Tas. and two Commonwealth Par-
liaments. As a member of the House of
Reps, he kept Australia waiting for three
weeks while he made up his mind whether
to vote in favor of Canberra as the site of
the capital or otherwise. There is irony
in the thought that Australia got her white
elephant as the result of a single vote, and
that belonging to a. Scotchman.
“Ben”: In and out of Parliament Norman
Cameron was a fighter, and if he could not
find foes he would fight friends rather than
be debarred the joy of battle. But pugnacity
is a characteristic of the Cameron clan. His
younger brother, Colonel Cyril Cameron (a
Senator for a term), took the first Tas-
manian contingent to the Boer War. Wheu
ambushed and taken prisoner and disarmed,
it is on record that he rolled into his cap-
tors with his bare fists. Not only in public
but in private life Norman maintained his
role. There was the famous “dripping” case,
arising from a servant using butter when
the boss had given orders that only dripping
was to be issued ; there was another lawsuit
over the short payment by a Devonport pro-
duce merchant of 3d. in exchange on a three-
figure cheque. A lean, lanky figure, con-
spicuous for wearing a battered panama hat
in all weathers, Norman was a likeable
fellow in spite of his kink.
Tom Glassey, of New Farm, Brisbane, the
oldest surviving member of the first Com-
monwealth Senate, was born in Co. Armagh
(Ireland) 87 years ago. At six he was
working among the weaving looms for a
penny a day; manhood found him a coal-
miner, one of those who helped to secure
the return of Thomas Burt to the House of
Commons in 1874. Glassey himself was the
first Labor member to be elected to the
Queensland Parliament 14 years later. Josiah
Symon, K.C., who is in his 85th year and
the next oldest survivor of the first lot of
Federal Senators, is a close friend of Glassey.
The two veterans exchange frequent letters.
Death has taken quick toll of the Mani-
fold brothers, of Camperdown (Vic.). W.T.
went out suddenly a few years ago. Tom was
killed in the hunting-field. Chester, the
M.H.R. for Corangamite, died at sea. Edward
has just passed over in a private hospital in
Melbourne. He was the last survivor of the
five sons of John Manifold, who settled the
Camperdown district in 1838. The Purrum-
bete estate was famous for shorthorns, and
when the fattest part of it was alienated to
dairy-farmers Edward made as big a repu-
tation for Wiridgil. He was a leading polo-
player in 'his day and a racing owner of
note.
It is nearly eight years since Leonard
Matters, the Labor M.P. who started
a discussion in the Commons about
the terms on which Australia’s war
debts are being paid to Britain, was last
in this country. He returned after
a long sojourn in the Argentine and else-
where, and was provisionally selected as
editor of a daily paper which the C.P. folk
aimed at establishing in Perth. The pro-
ject came to nothing, and Matters, who is
a native of Adelaide, departed on his travels
again, this time taking a path that led to
Westminster. His wife, a fairly well-known
woman journalist, was running a social
paper in Perth for a few years before rejoin-
ing her husband. Matters is a graphic
writer himself, and one of a clever family.
Major-General R. E. Williams, of Mel-
bourne “Herald and Weekly Times” board of
directors, reached Ballarat four years after
gold was first picked up there ; his father was
school-teaching among the nuggets at the
General
R. E. WILLIAMS, of
Melbourne “Herald.”
time. In his life
of nearly four-
score year’s Wil-
liams has turned
his hand to jour-
nalism, local gov-
ernment, soldier-
ing and library
work, and has
done them all
better than fairly
well. For 13
years he edited
the “Courier” at
Ballarat, and for
another 17 years
he was the chief
executive officer
at his native
city’s Town Hall.
The war had been
running but a
short time before
he was made com-
mandant of the
military forces in
Victoria, which
post he occupied
for four years.
When the knock-
off sounded he
was appointed
one of three com-
missioners who
probed the H.C.L.
question in Vic-
toria. Then Theo-
dore Fink, who
has always looked
after his friends,
provided him
with the job of
looking after the
“H e r a 1 d ' s”
library, at which
work he occupied
himself for sev-
eral years at a
salary beyond the
dreams of the ordinary librarian. Later a
place was found for him on the board.
Rev. Enoch Gratton, of Walkerville
(S.A.), has had a 93rd birthday. He is
reckoned to be the oldest Methodist minister
in Australia.
Norman Lindsay was 52 on Monday.
These days he lives a hermit life in a home
full of art treasures within a gum forest
outside Springwood, in the Blue Mountains,
40 miles from Sydney. He makes a descent
upon the city only once or twice a year—
and generally a quick departure. The noise
and the rush distract him. He rarely leaves
NORMAN LINDSAY (52).
his fastness even to explore the country
around him, and yet he lives a fairly busy
life —painting, etching, reading, writing:
occasionally varying the menu by making
with meticulous care one of those models of
old ships on which he has become one of
the world’s authorities. His reading is spas-
modic : for days on end he will not want
to see a printed thing except wild detective
yarns and wilder “Deadwood Dicks.” Visi-
tors are not many: they are welcomed with
the artist’s old explosive enthusiasm and pro-
bably farewelled with the fervent prayer that
they won’t come again for seven years. He
is not rich ; but he has been able to command
such fine prices for his work that the depres-
sion doesn’t handle him roughly; America is
a keen buyer of everything he offers —and
these days he doesn’t offer much anywhere
else.
iCaptain A. Liston-Blyth, a former R.M.
in the Papuan service, has been reading his
own obituary. With two Papuans Blyth spt
out from Thursday Island on January 14 in
an open launch intending to cross over to
Daru at the western end of Papua. Terrific
gales drove him to the leeward of Nagi,
where the anchor chain parted and the
launch’s engine broke down. Before the dis-
abled craft drifted away, one of the natives
hopped overboard, thinking he might get help,
and reached the beach. He was picked up
by a passing lugger and taken into T. 1.,
whence the Melbidir was sent out on a vain
search for the derelict. All hope was given
up, and the “Papuan Courier,” the Port
Moresby weekly, carried the bad news in
its issue of Feb. 6. The very same day a
launch arrived with the derelict in tow, after
three weeks’ buffeting in the Coral Sea.
Blyth was weary and worn and half-starved,
but he grinned when they gave him the news
of his death to read.
Harry Gregory, M.H.R., has been telling a
Westralian paper how he spent a few days
in dryblowing with no luck 37 years ago
within a few miles of where the 11350 z.
nugget was unearthed at Darkinville. The
future Parliamentarian was one of the numer-
ous Victorians whom the gold discoveries of
40 years ago sent westward; he and four
mates landed at Albany and arrived in
Coolgardie at the tail of a dray in Decem-
ber, 1893. Townships were springing up
everywhere in those days, and Gregory
battled on to Menzies, to become its first
Mayor and the first M.L.A. for North Cool-
gardie. That was the beginning of a Par-
liamentary life that has already lasted 34
years with only one break.
A parson who should know more of the
ways of men than most is George McLaren
Scott, just placed in charge of the Presby-
terian Institutional Church in the Ultimo-
Redfern district of Sydney. Born in Annan-
dale, he went to sea at 14, and after knock-
ing about the world for four years became
a Salvationist in Canada. He took off the
red jersey to go gold-hunting in Alaska, and
it was not until he had entered his thirties
that he returned to Australia and qualified
for the ministry. Since then he has done
a lot of work for the Australian Inland
Mission.


Extraordinary Value in
GREY FLANNEL
SPORTS TROUSERS.
A special purchase enables us
to offer this exceptional value
in all-wool Colonial Flannel
Sports Trousers. Exception-
ally well-tailored. In a ser-
viceable shade of medium
grey, with side and hip
pockets, belt loops, hip straps
and cuff bottoms. All sizes.
Special Price,
PER PAIR .
17/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
TRAVELLERS TO EUROPE!
VISIT THE
PARIS
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
MAY 9 to 25, 1931.
Thirty foreign countries combine in providing a comprehensive
exhibition of all branches of manufacture and production.
Special travel facilities by rail and air offered to buyers.
Full particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
sdf
WIN. FOWL.ES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
hands you a garage
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/0; bed and breakfast, from
6/6 single, or 11/6 double.
All meals optional in tea-
rooms or cafe at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 10/6
daily; or 65/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station —no taxi fares for
train travellers. Please write far detailed tariff card.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’21.. 63.495 65,000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65.000 21,276 Nil 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income-tax . . £23,545 727,621
June, ’23.. 58,679 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23. . 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 1
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 ( oyb, ' s ° 3
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100.772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 . . 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
Dec., ’30.. 135,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
*old plant written off.
The resumption of supplies from Maitland
and a reduction in the price of coal bright-
ened the latest figures. Still, it was not until
Sept, last that consumers got any relief.
They had been paying 7s. 6d. per 1000 c.f.,
including an extra 5d., to help meet the addi-
tional cost of importing English coal. Under
the new scale charges range from 7s. 3d.
to ss. lOd. per 1000 c.f. according to monthly
consumption. Incidentally, the overseas coal
bill amounted to over three-quarters of a
million —a sinful waste !
The following analysis of revenue account
shows what has happened during the year:
, Year ended Dec. 31 >
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales •_ 1929. s - d - 193 °- s. d.
Gas .. ..£1,512,781 7 2 £1,479,295 7 41
Residuals .. 262,832 1 3 223,904 1 11
Total . . £1,775,613 8 5 £1,703,199 8 51
Manufacturing, etc.—
Exes. . . 1,296,432 6 11 1,168,116 5 94
Other charges 289,052 1 4* 305,375 1 6i
Total outgo £1,585,484 7 6i £1,473,491 7 31
Gas consumption (4032 million cubic feet)
was p.c. lighter; and smaller sales and
a cut in the price of coke reduced the re-
turns from residuals. The most encourag-
ing feature is the drop of 4Jd. per 1000 c.f.
in manufacturing and distributing costs; the
bill for coal, oils, etc. (£677,987) was £127,398
lighter than the previous year’s. An increase
of £17,200 in rents, rates and taxes was
mainly responsible for the growth in the
unit cost of other charges. There was
a decrease of 671,541 gallons in tar stocks
(752,187 gallons), and the capacity of the
bitural plant has been increased to 500,000
gallons per annum. Provided the product is
standardised to Government road-making re-
quirements, ready sales are assured. Since
returns from residuals affect the price of
gas to the consumer, the importance of
encouraging their recovery and sale is
obvious.
No specific provision is made for depre-
ciation ; much, therefore, depends upon
whether expenditure on repairs and re-
newals (£268,991 last year, or £25,423 more
than for the previous 12 months) proves to
be sufficient to cover actual wear and tear.
The plant is said to be in splendid order.
The div., which was lifted a couple of
points to 15 p.c. in 1924, dropped to 13 p.c.
again for the last two years, owing to the
coal trouble. But, in view of impending legis-
lation in respect of the div. and other mat-
ters, nothing better thqn the present rate of
distribution need be looked for. But since
all shares have been sold at auction for over
half a century, and the average price real-
ised was £lO 10s. 3d., the 13 p.c. div. is worth
no more than 6.1 p.c. to the majority of share-
holders. At £8 3s. the market looks for an
8 p.c. return on the scrip at the present rate
of distribution.
There was no change of importance in
balance-sheet figures. Paid capital is
£1,300,000, to assist which there is £819,201
of share premiums, and £2,119,200 of deben-
tures bearing interest at from 4 p.c. to 8 p.c.
At the close of accounts there was £274,718
coming to creditors. Book debts, investments,
cash, etc., figured at £433.565; fixed assets,
£4,038,388; stocks, £191,108.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. Old. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.e. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 128,814 7,000 70,000 49,314 354,588
10 p.c.
1920.. 135,302 7,000 100,000 25,802 380,390
74 p.c.
1921.. 149,884 7,500 100,000 • 39,884 420,274
10 p.c.
1922.. 257,992 10,000 100,000 145,492 565,766
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1923.. 253,811 15,000 150,000 86,311 652,077
1924.. 274,115 15,000 150,000 106,615 758,692
Share premiums, £25,000 .. 783,692
1925.. 298,405 30,000 168,750 97,155 880,847
16£ p.c. 16£ p.c.
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284,375 93,385 974,232
171 p.c. 171 p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.- 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
The drop in earnings and the cut in the
div. fitted in with market anticipations, bids
for the scrip of the holding cos. having eased
between 40 p.c. and 50 p.c. below the peak
prices of 1929. Reduced spending, which has be-
come more pronounced since the books closed,
and keen competition from the Richmond
Brewery, affected turnover, while stinging
increases in company taxation and excise
made it difficult to restrain outgoings. Gross
profits (£441,041), in which the visible slip
was £86,106, were the lowest since the co.
tightened its grip upon the trade by the
purchase of the Melbourne Co-operative,
Fitzgerald’s (Castlcmaine) and Cohn’s (Ben-
digo) about five years ago. Exes. (£108,646)
were £4172 heavier. Thus the net result
was 17 p.c. on the £1,950,000 of paid capital
compared with 21.6, 22.8, 22.5, 21 and 22.5
p.c. back to 1925, and 2| points were chipped
off the div., reducing it to 15 p.c. Since
visible accumulations at June 80 last were
only £498,492 in excess of the £BOO,OOO origi-
nally paid for goodwill, such robust earnings
suggest the existence of substantial inner
reserves.
What the future will bring it is impossible
to say. The general experience has been
that the trade holds fairly well in dull
times. But when the major problems of
public finance have been adjusted, and con-
ditions become more settled, the national
income and cost of living seem certain to be
on a lower scale than of recent years. So
the co.’s p. and 1. figures may yet lose more
of their recent glitter. Still, a 10 p.c. div.
might then be worth as much as 17£ p.c.
used to be. Meanwhile it can be expected
that rentals and property values, including
hotels, will ease, and that the taxgatherer
will make off with a larger slice of the earn-
ings. Actual results will depend largely upon
the course of competition and whether the
provision for contingencies proves to be
adequate.
The co. is well ribbed financially, and with
prohibition under the table the board is
planning for a larger output, amongst other
things, as the next comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:—
1924. 1929. 1930.
Sundry creditors . . £168,078 £234,425
Deposits. . .. . . 112,523 410 410
Mortgages .. .. 115,356 191,834
Brewery freeholds . . 103,393 255,846 266,822
Hotel freeholds . . 126,486 389,096 587,317
Book debts, etc. . . 602,832 854,071 971,599
Stocks and iexc»se stamps 201,027 324,326 299,350
Plant, etc 271,043 427,703 440,744
Leaseholds .. . . 9,000 8,621
Cash, investments, etc. 119,510 721,460 425,082
Important features of the latest accounts are
the growth of £198,221 in the book value
of hotel freeholds and of £117,528 in debtors’
balances. This and the steady additions to
brewery freeholds is pretty certain to ensure
a substantial turnover. To add £221,859
to the book value of fixed assets, the board
last year drew upon more or less liquids for
£20 1 3,826 and tacked £26,887 net on to the
outside debt. Thus the more or less liquid
surplus was £230,714 lighter than at the
previous balance; it was, however, no less
than £1,269,362 when the books last closed.
The public is interested in the C.U.B.
through five holding cos., whose shares are
listed. The position in this respect is as
follows: —
Holding Market Re-
Paid in Div. Price turn
Capital. C.U.B. p.e. Scrip, p.c.
Carlton ..£816,992 £631,704 10 27/2 7.3
Castlemaine 175,000 117,414 12.8 25/-* 9.0
Foster .. 57,600 83,049 22 41/-* 10.6
Shamrock . . 78,525 83,049 17 32/6* 10.4
McCracken’s 41,625 41,625 14.5
*Sellers.
On the basis of their share interests the un-
distributed portion of C.U.B.’s profit for
1930 was equal to 1.5 p.c. on Carlton’s capi-
tal ; R 3 p.c., Castlemaine; 2.9 p.c. Foster;
2.1 p.c., Shamrock; 2 p.c. McCracken’s.' The
C.U.B. reserves, including the goodwill already
referred to. figured out at lBs. 4d. per £ of
its own paid capital.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 19,785 9 p.c. = 17,250 2535 35,355
1921.. 6.206 6) „ ~ 14.625 - 26,936
1922.. 16,418 7 „ „ 15,750 668 27,604
1923.. 12,478 7„ „ 15,750 24,332
1924.. 21,726 Ti „ „ 16,876 4860 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7„ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 ~ ~ 11,250 15.038
1929.. 3,082 2i „ „ 5,625 12,495
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 ( gg
' Provision for contingencies, £69,070 j ’
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
The collapse of the figures reflects the pre-
carious condition of the small storekeeper,
especially in the country districts, where this
old-established drygoods wholesaler has
strong connections. Many primary pro-
ducers, and others, too, find that the cost of
production, governed largely by legislative
enactments, now exceeds the attenuated re-
turns from their products. Their savings,
if any, have been mostly consumed, and they
are unable to pay their bills. Also demand
for drygoods has been largely restricted to
the cheaper lines, which carry margins too
narrow to support costs on their present
Thus the co.’s gross profit (£78,981)
slipped £22,402 last year. Exes. (£87,180)
were got back £11,121, and the trading loss
was £8199. That was before setting aside
£10,226 for doubtful debts —the amount has
been deducted in the books from the asset
concerned. Further losses are anticipated,
so £69,070 has been reserved for contingen-
cies. All this increased the deficit on share-
holders’ account to £75,000, or one-third of
the paid capital. When conditions settle
sufficiently to enable the co. to re-establish
itself on a profit-earning basis, capital is to
be reduced by the amount mentioned or
whatever sum is considered necessary at the
time.
The business was founded in the. sixties of
last century by David Mitchell with money
he had made storekeeping at Ipswich (Q.).
An extensive importing trade was developed,
but the first Commonwealth tariff. gave the
company new opportunities, and it put in
plant to manufacture and pack foodstuffs.
The public became interested in 1913. For
the decade to the close of last accounts divs.
averaged 5.6 p.c., to pay which reserves were
tapped for £22,860.
The layout of the balance-sheet obstructs
a clear view of the finances: —
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225,000 £226,000 £225,000
Liabilities .. 145,136 202,093 171,109 136,826
Properties and
plant . . 24,435 53,854 53,026 52,785
Stock. . . . 128,350 121,251 109,094 78,175
Book debts, etc. 255,186 266,826 236,959 214,757
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 15,312 9,525 10,178
After deducting the allowance for doubtful
accounts, book debts were £22,202 lighter
than at the previous balance; the item in-
cludes the co.’s holding in Mitchell’s Fac-
tories, Ltd. Stocks, which were reduced
£30,919 during the year, are lighter than at
any time in the last 14 years. Thus the
board was able to clip £34,283 off the amount
coming to creditors, including the bank. The
co.’s Kent- and Clarence-street properties are
to be sold when opportunity offers; mean-
while most of the activities are being con-
centrated in the Forbes-street premises.
The scrip hag not come on to the market
of recent months.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £>£>£>
1925.. 15,590 10 p.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 \ <,,,,
1926.. 17,241 121 p.c. = 12,100 5141 )
1927.. 15,722 12) „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 121 „ „ 16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 121 „ ~27,083 7153 23,190
Loss.
1930.. 2,981 2 „ „ 5,208 15,001
The board has never told shareholders much
about their investment. The co., which set
up in 1912, has extensive bread- and biscuit-
making interests; until about six years ago
it was modestly capitalised at £60,000. The
scrip was listed in 1926, and a small gift
issue, followed by a lift in the div. from
10 p.c. to 121 p.c. and a flood of new share
issues at par kept the price above 295. on
the market until February of last year.
Meanwhile £170,000 of fresh cash-paid capi-
tal was gathered, making the total on the
register £250,000, most of which has been
used to finance the activities of subsidiaries,
over whose figures the board has kept the
curtain drawn. The pups appeared to be
an energetic and a profitable lot; the parent
showed net profits averaging 17.8 p.c, on its
average capital for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1929.
Last year, however, ushered in a special
crop of troubles, besides the general
slump. After setting aside £3427 for
taxation, a loss of £2981 showed up
for the 12 months to Dec. 31. Though
it operates a small plant on its own account,
the backbone of the biscuit-making section
is the eo.’s interest in Hardman Bros., Ltd.,
which has strong connections in the South
Sea Islands. Here turnover was affected
by competition from English concerns whose
products were recently placed on the pro-
hibited list of Australian imports. But it
was in the bread-making section, which now
comprises the major part of the invest-
ments, that the worst trouble occurred.
Owing to a price war the co. is selling the
21b. loaf at 3Jd.; according to the Master
Bakers’ Association it costs a shade over
to produce.
Such a state of affairs can, of course, only
continue while the financial resources of the
competitors hold out. Still, . there is a
proportion of small proprietary concerns,
with lighter overhead than the larger cos.,
and they fight desperately for existence
before they go under. That "and other things
may stand in the way of an early recovery
in the co.’s earnings from bread. Much will
depend upon the financial position of the
subsidiaries, which is not disclosed.
Here is as much as the parent’s own
balance-sheet figures tell: —
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £BB,OOO £lOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 1,032 1,166 9,089 23,708
Land, buildings,
i n v estments,
etc 84,095 90,868 232,571 255,625
Plant, etc. . . 1,534 1,530 18,170 10,273
Stocks.. .. 2,217 2,381 10,915 8,614
Book debts . . 7,210 3,571 13,894 11,410
Cash, etc. . . 7,311 11,834 11,936 6,214
During the year £23,054 was added to the
book )mlue of the main asset, which includes
an unspecified amount of goodwill. To
meet the outlay the board drew upon liquids
for £10,507, and went to its bankers for an
extra £14,869, raising the overdraft to
£16,393. Thus the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£2530) slipped £25,117. The book
value of the co.’s own plant was reduced
by more than one-third of the figure at
which it stood a year ago.
On the market the scrip now fetches Bs.
6d. Subject to goodwill, it is covered by net
assets with a book value of 21s. 2d.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
Net To Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 22,920 7 p.c. = 13,300 9,620 7,000
Reserves.
1927.. 23,643 7 „ „ 13,881 9,763 2,762
1928.. 15,434 7 ~ „ 14,164 1,270 4,032
1929.. 26,093 7 „ ~15,475 10,618 14,650
Added goodwill, £15,350 1 ■, woo
1930.. 2,432 Nil 2,432 ) 1,10
During the first decades of this century two
co-operative selling organisations competed
with each other and with proprietary con-
cerns for, the N. S. Wales coastal trade in
dairy produce. This partly defeated the co-
operative aim of marketing at the minimum
cost to the producer. So, in 1925, the
Berrima and Coastal Farmers’ cos. merged
their interests in the present society ; but
Norco, another big co-operative undertaking,
which had broken away from the. Coastal
Farmers, has continued to do its own
marketing.
Since the amalgamation the charge for hand-
ling butter (now 2i p.c.) has been twice
reduced, and a bit has been knocked off the
commission on bacon and other lines. Turn-
over has fluctuated with seasons and prices,
and earnings have behaved accordingly, as
this next table shows: —
t —Exes. p.c. of-— N
Commis- Corn-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. 206,991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
The collapse of prices gave last year’s figures
a nasty jolt, and until conditions become
more settled it is doubtful to what extent,
if any, improvement may be looked for. In
January, 1930, the proprietary business of
J. Mackey and Co. was bought; the sum
involved was not mentioned, but apparently
£15,350 was paid for goodwill. The larger
quantities of produce handled added £8125 to
exes., while price recessions caused a drop
of £171,012 in turnover, and of £15,536 in
earnings from commission, etc. Thus it cost an
extra 6s. to market each £lOO worth of pro-
duce. After reserving £2OOO for bad debts,
the slip in net earnings was £23,661, and
no div. was paid.
There was nothing uneasy about the
finances; though the liquid surplus (£87,535,
including stocks) was £26,161 lighter than
at the previous balance, as may be seen from
the next comparison :
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £198,311 £202,349 £208,440 £207,218
Overdraft .. 75,733 78,687 47,980 74,780
Other liabilities 258,261 235,104 229,829 180,137
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 68,366 67,756 66,966 62,108
Plant .. 33,180 30,627 31,275 35,003
Shares other cos. 26,970 26,270 26,270 26,270
Stocks .. 68,506 63,636 63,110 63,475
Book debts .. 134,682 327,173 307,271 265,174
Cash .. 19,304 18,897 21,124 13,803
At the end of Sept, last the amount coming
(Continued on page 16.)


EN
'4
%
k
k
k
L
m
&
h
\i
i
k
a
IPs
l #c
/ r'
if
/ * A
ff-
m
m
■
»c
m
mm
:■»
.Mi;
«■
w
I
s:\
jjmwira
isiiwj
F& ■■:. . . - 3&. ; 2&
MS*
iiS
_
‘
isii
:: ; •'
*»•*!;:
$i!S
ii»
S«SH
SiSHiHiffl
iililWilll^
wass*
M
SsSissi
’*.. ‘..'■■.S:ni'
■■SSiiffl
mo&*
4MH I
i&Mi
iWUlii
si
jljiij?
li;iii!!i!iii:!ii!!
5 -
iiiiil
'-■. - liii ~
■tf:
vm s;
lii'Ki
iSS
'
8.G.7M.29
WPK
mt


DIFFICULT
DAYS
If you’ve got to sacrifice some-
thing, what’s it to be? Which
cos. are standing up best to the
strain? Which show signs of
being likely to disappear alto-
gether?
We shall not be always like
this. There will be a recovery
some day, and those who get in
at the bottom will make for-
tunes.
It is the “Wild Cat Monthly’s”
job to help you pick them.
FEBRUARY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEK ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice.. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Definite proof of the excellence of Pioneer Wood
Pipe exists in the many installations carried out
throughout Australia. In every instance Pioneer
Wood Pipe is proving its capability to give
thoroughly efficient service on the most economical
basis. Non-corrosive, light, strong and extremely
durable, no conduit can surpass Pioneer Wood Pipe
for economical and excellent service, whilst its cost
is far below any other type of pipe. Full particulars
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire <
Mortobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £40,540,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ToThose Interested in Dredging for Tin or Gold
A unique opportunity of purchasing a complete, modern, nearly new HYDRAULIC
DREDGING PLANT. High-speed engines direct coupled to pumps. Steam boilers
1501 b. w.p. llin. piping, etc.
Also H.M.C. Boiler 10 x 4ft. 6in. of 1201 b. w.p. Double-acting Duplex Steam Pump 14
x 8 x 10 and 2500 ft. 6in. spiral riveted piping (nearly new). Particulars, price,
etc., from
DARCY G. HUGHES, Engineer, Belgrave Street, Morningside, Brisbane.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
to consignors (£91,109) was little more than
one-third of the month’s turnover; and that
is as it should be. Purchasing customers
had been kept so well up to the mark that
they owed for less than three weeks’ sup-
plies The drop of £1222 in paid capital
was due to the forfeiture of 5451 shares
during the year.
The dairy-farmer, in the mass, has fared
better than most other primary producers. Be-
sides getting almost the full benefit of the
exchange on his overseas’ shipments of butter,
he has also benefited by a rise of over 20s.
per cwt. on the local market during the last
couple of months. This is due to the growth
in the premium on export and the bonus
paid under the Paterson scheme. Thus butter,
selling for 112 s. in London recently, fetched
158 s. in Sydney, so the producer is receiving
more than London parity based on the rate
of exchange.
The Holdens-General Motors Merger
Assured of tariff protection and assistance
from the Bank of Adelaide, the Holdens,
who had long been in the saddlery business,
bought Hack’s little body-building works,
Adelaide, formed the present co. with a capi-
tal of £130,000 and laid the foundations of
the new industry in December, 1917. Aided
by boom conditions and imaginative and
enterprising management, the business
bounded along. Paid capital is now
£1,174,000 in 550,000 8 p.c. A and B prefs.
and 624,000 ords.; reserves totalled £677,936
at June 30 last. After a run of 15 p.c. divs.
the ords. got 10 p.c. in 1929 and 5 p.c. last
year, when the profit claimed (£167,141, after
paying pref. divs.) was 26.7 p.c. on their
capital—the board, seeing trouble ahead,
decided to further strengthen the finances.
But when the money is invested mainly
in fixed assets and everything planned on a
mass-production basis, plant has to be kept
busy if satisfactory results are to be shown.
Prospects are that the business offering will
not be enough to employ the machines at
capacity for a long while yet.
Of recent years close business connections
developed between Holdens and General
Motors (Aus.) Pty., a pup of the big Ameri-
can manufacturing concern with inter-
national ramifications. It handles the assem-
bly and distribution of some quick sellers on
the Australian market, absorbs about 70 p.c.
of Holdens’ output and has been on the
lookout for an opportunity to add body-
making to its activities. Thus has come
about the proposed merger of the two busi-
nesses.
A new co., General Motors and Holdens,
Ltd., is to take over the assets of the pair
on a valuation basis. The figure placed upon
Holdens’ assets is £1,111,600; that is
£740,336 less than their net book value at
June 30 last, but nearly £500,000 more than
the figure at which the market priced the
undertaking before the announcement. The
£550,000 of pref. capital is to be returned
in cash; a week or so ago the A shares sold
at 13s. and the B’s at 11s. The ords. are
asked to convert into 6 p.c. prefs. in the
new co. —nine prefs. for 10 ords. On the
market the ords. are priced at 12s. or there-
abouts ; the return at that figure is 9 p.c.,
after allowing for conversion. The net asset
cover for the new prefs. is £3 6s. lOd.
The American subsidiary does not publish
its accounts; presumably it will hold most
of the ord. capital in the new co. It is
intended to develop the manufacture of other
lines apart from the motor trade.
On the board of the new concern are E. W.
Holden (chairman), Wallace Bruce and A.
G. Rymill—all of Holdens —and John But-
ters and A. N. Lawrence managing, from
the American subsidiary.
The Maitland Coal Merger
The East Greta Co. is to link up with the
newly-formed J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries, Ltd., which has a paid
capital of £1,600,000. The idea is to seek
a way out of the difficulties which beset the
over-produced and over-manned industry.
The move was expected, since Adelaide
Steam, the largest shareholder in the old
Abermain-Seaham Co., holds a substantial
interest in East Greta, which owns Stanford
Merthyr No. 1 and No. 2 at Kurri and Pax-
ton respectively, and has approximately a
half interest in the South Maitland Rail-
ways, Ltd.
Details of the absorption have yet to be
announced. East Greta’s paid capital is
£600,000 in £1 shares, the price of which
jumped from 3s. 6d. to ss. 6d. on the market
last week-end. The co. has not paid a div.
since May, 1927; the average return over
the last 20 years is a little more than 6 p.c.
The co. closed down the old East Greta mine
in Oct., 1928, owing to seepage of water from
the adjoining South Maitland pit.
When the merger is complete, collieries
under the control of the J. and A. Brown and
Abermain-Seaham Co. will include Pelaw
Main, Richmond Main, Abermain, Ducken-
field, Seaham, Stockrington and the two Stan-
ford Merthyrs.
The Exchange Position
There was an interesting development of
the exchange position last week. On cabled
advices from London that buyers of money
on Australian account were slackening, and
that a fall in the rate was probable, there
was a brisk movement to resist the tendency
by attempting to show that Australia was
really gaining through its £ being worth
only between 15s. and 16s s
Of course somebody can always make
money out of inflation; and strings were
pulled vigorously. It was all done, of course,
in the interests of the. producer: he was gain-
ing so much by the exchange premium and
wanted it all so badly that it would be a
shame to interfere with the present rate.
The fact that the community has to pay
the premium was not mentioned. Neither was
the fact that in many instances there is a
leakage, the community being then bled for
the benefit of middlemen of one kind and
another.
The position is complicated at the moment
by the circumstance that some woolbuyers
have been able to sell forward exchange at
present rate ; therefore if there should be a fall
in the rate these woolbuyers would be in
a better position than competitors without
that advantage. The banks have always
been against forward dealings, and —unless
they declare that inflation is a good thing,
which is of course unthinkable —they are
not likely to change that attitude at this
of all moments.
Broken Hill
Less than two months ago a new agreement
was made at Broken Hill in the hope of
carrying on the industry there. The basic
wage was fixed at the N.S.W. State basic
wage plus 7s. 6d. a week. The “big three”
cos. which signed the contract had the right
to give two months’ notice of suspension if
the London price of lead should remain below
£l5 for 24 consecutive days. In December,
when this agreement was reached, the price
of lead averaged £l5 ss. Bd. Zinc at the
time was £l3 19s. 9d. and silver 16.26 d. In
January there was a further persistent slide;
and on Feb. 17, when the parties met again
to consider the position, lead was £l3 3s. 9d.,
zinc £l2 3s. 9d. and silver 12.62 d. The fall
has, however, been to some extent mitigated
by a rise in the exchange rate, which has
given the cos. a benefit at the expense of
the Commonwealth and State Governments
and all importers of foreign goods, including
raw materials for Australian manufactures.
On the other hand, the position is made
infinitely worse by the fact that the cos.
have not been able to sell large quantities of
their output even at the reduced rates. In
the last six months nearly 16,000 tons of
lead has been added to the cos.’ unsold stocks,
which now amount to nearly 100,000 tons.
C. J. Emery, who presided at the conference
of owners’ and union representatives at the
Hill on Feb. 17, said that if a cut of 25 p.c.
were made in Broken Hill production and the
lead sales continued at no greater rate than
in the past three months, it would take over
three years to work down the stocks to
what was formerly regarded as a reasonable
size.
In the circumstances the Zinc Corp. saw
no way of escape but by giving notice of
suspension of agreement; and the North and
South cos. are considering what action they
will take. They have told the unions that
they want to keep going, but so much money
is locked up in lead and other stocks that
there is a limit to the distance they can go.
For three months past they have been sell-
ing less than 70 p.c. of their production.
The cos. have made no proposal to the
unions; they have merely “warned them of
the state of the industry.” Formerly, how-
ever, they offered to co-operate with the
unions in trying to reduce the cost of living;
and schemes in that direction are being now
considered.
Among the new gold-mining ventures
which have been budding in N.S.W. of late
is Great Turnastone Gold Reefs, with a
nominal capital of £lO,OOO in 200,000 Is.
shares. The reef, at Turnastone in the New
England country, runs east and west for
over a mile, and averages from three to four
feet in width. Shafts have been put down
to 45ft„ and Mines Department sample
assays give results ranging from 4dwt. to
3oz. lldwt. of gold per ton. Aid for further
development has been promised by the de-
partment. The vendors take 30,000 paids, a
further 10,000 paids go to the promoters,
and 100,000 contribs. are offered. The other
60.000 shares are in pickle.
* * * *
The offer of B. H. Prop, to interest itself
in the new Queensland silver-lead field at
Lawn Hills, not far from Mt. Isa. has been
taken up with enthusiasm by leaseholders on
the spot. They decided to hold the option
open for six months from February 16 to
give the co. a chance to prove the field.
Leaseholders reserve the right to claim three
inches of each foot of core from the bores
for check sampling.
Tin-mining has never been at such a low
ebb in North Queensland, where 70 per cent,
concentrates are worth only about £6O.
Irvinebank and Herberton have lost many
of the old hands, who have gone prospecting
in the Palmer River district for gold. From
there up the Peninsula towards Coen there
are a number of old fields now being combed
by itinerant parties. The Batavia miners
will split up about £l2OO worth of gold for
January, which is considerably ahead of their
monthly average lately.
* * * *
The Palmer River Dredging Co. secured
41oz. gold for 10 days’ work in January,
despite freshes in the river. These make it
difficult to reach the bottom gravels. Con-
ditions there are usually best from April on.
That the start of productive operations has
synchronised with the payment of a bonus
on gold and the exchange premium should
mean much to the co. It seems certain that
some of the Palmer reefs on the English co.’s
concessions will be tackled this year. The
old field is likely to have its best tryout
since it was abandoned by the Celestials.
* * * *
A syndicate has been formed to develop
a property at Mt. Horror, near Scotts
(Tas.). The reef, from which it is intended
to mine a 10-ton parcel, has been traced for
a chain and a half, and at 14ft. down had
widened to 9in., the stone showing gold
freely. A Mines Department assay gave
9|oz. gold and l|oz. silver to the ton. If
the rest of the reef is as good as the
samples the syndicate will have reason to
shake hands with itself.
* * * *
Mararoa mine, near Cue (W.A.), is under
option to strong financial interests in Lon-
don. The lode is satisfactory in width and
value to a depth of 160 ft.; unsuitable treat-
ment plant and ore transport methods ren-
dered its 455. per ton values not good enough
to pay working exes., developmental charges
and divs. Encouraged by the results achieved
in depressing circumstances, the W.A. Mines
Department put down four bores on the pro-
perty to an average depth of 500 ft. These
proved the lode at various depths below the
160 ft. level to have an average width of
10ft. and a gold content of 435. per ton.
Ore below water level is claimed to be amen-
able to simple gold-extraction processes,
which should mean much so far as the cost
of the plant is concerned. Arsenic and anti-
mony are not expected to cause any trouble.
A nine-months’ working option has been
taken, and, should it be exercised, a £300,000
co. will be formed, the vendors taking
£75,000 in paids, plus £3OOO to repay Gov-
ernment cost of boring. The present Mararoa
co. has 145,000 issued shares.
* * * *
A few Perth and Kalgoorlie fortune-hunt-
ers have got hold of the old Youanmi mine,
and hope, with the aid of London and Syd-
ney capital, to turn it to profitable account.
Years ago a London co., bossed by H. C.
Hoover and others, extracted nearly three-
quarters of a million worth of bullion from
the show; but costs outdistanced receipts
and promises were never fulfilled. The
advent of the gold bounty and the exchange
premium are now billed as the inducements
for the public to come in.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Any information on process of recovery
of bismuth from soft friable earth m the
carbonate form? (2) Any book on metal-
lurgy of bismuth? —l4l9.
(1) The finely-crushed ore is treated with
hydrochloric acid in a stoneware vessel, and
stirred for six hours. Water is added to
precipitate bismuth as oxychloride; allow
to settle and siphon off the clear liquid.
Wash the precipitate with hot water.
Reduce to metallic bismuth by smelting with
lime and charcoal. (2) “Elements of
Metallurgy,” by J. A. Phillips and H. Bauer-
man.
If exporters are not allowing our producers
the rate of exchange, how do they manipulate
their documents? —1624 a.
They don’t have to manipulate any docu-
ments. Four-fifths of the wool and practi-
cally all the wheat exported from Australia
is sold in Australia; and, though the buyer
is supposed to allow for exchange in his
quotation, he has in very many cases liber-
ally discounted it, believing, or professedly
believing, that the current rate was fictitious
and temporary.
Is a trade balance the same as a budget
balance, or is there any connection between
them ? —1468.
When a country’s trade balances its ex-
ports pay for its imports. It is, however,
necessary for a debtor country to export in
addition sufficient to,pay its foreign interest,
less anything which it may be receiving
abroad from its own investments. When a
country balances its budget, its revenue from
taxation and services (such as railway earn-
ings) equals its expenditure apart from ex-
penditure on capital account —like railway
construction, etc.
What harm would result if a responsible
board, free from political control, regulated
inflation to the extent of 50 millions? Would
not the Government save enormously in
interest ? —1492a,
If 50 million interest-free notes were
added to the notes already in circulation it
would have just the same effect as if 50 mil-
lion apples in addition to the regular supply
were thrown on the market. They would
have precious little market value of their
own and would destroy the market value of
all the other apples.
If there was inflation could the N.S.W.
Government pay Dorman, Long the
£6,000,000 or whatever might he due for the
ar^°r bridge in inflated currency?
As at June 30 last the total net expendi-
ture on the bridge was £6,463,943, includ-
ing £688,315 interest on moneys expended
since construction started, and property re-
sumptions. Dorman, Long’s accepted tender
was for £4,217,721 11s. lOd.; but there have
been extras. As these figures suggest, liberal
progress payments have been made to the
firm, and there will be nothing at all resem-
bling six millions to be paid .at the end.
Payments are made in Sydney.
I borrowed £6OO from a building society
and have paid off £4OO. If inflation came —
(1) How would I stand in regard to the
balance? (2) Would it be better to pay off
in a lump sum? —ll24.
(1) You would still have to pay off £2OO.
(2) Makes no difference. Your money in
hand would depreciate; but £1 of it would
still pay £1 of your fixed debt.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.L.: If it is registered as a limited
liability co., shareholders are liable for the face
value of their scrip. They can only escape by
having their names removed from the register by
order of the Court ; they may get that done by
reason of misrepresentation—if, of course, misrepre-
sentation can be proved... .8.G.A.: One of the
soundest of the younger offices. Older offices pay
larger bonuses now; but nobody knows how the
figures will look 20 years hence T.A.C.: (1)
Yes. (2) Risky... .Bulletin R.: If safety of
principal is very important, no.... Timon: Of stock
exchange groups industrials came best through Ger-
man inflation and stabilisation. Of course there
were exceptions. .. .W.F.: Read “National Emer-
gency,” Plain English J.R.A.: Industrials fared
best, on the whole C.8.T.: Call at Dept, of
Mines, Brisbane; they will furnish you with all
available information.


mm
■m
I tllllll®
. 1
■
ft !.!i|.ll,i ; ,yi»'"‘
II s . -ftr MmmmmM
/ 1
-4
::
if «
PMC
fir m
m
Savins Time Day and Night— Saving Money
All the Time
The REO is an able truck. . . .on the job
24 hours a day when needed.... doing every
hauling job in good weather and bad. . . .
carrying strenuous loads across heavy fields,
or into town.... delivering feed, milk, crops,
livestocksaving time and costs in the
harvesting seasons. flln a few words that’s
the story of REO on the farm! tJREO SPEED
WAGONS and TRUCKS are strong, durable,
more powerful than other trucks of equal engine
size. . . .faster, easier to start, steer and stop.
CJThe REO outlasts ordinary trucks.
Hundreds of Australian farmers will attest
that their REOS are speeding up farm pro-
duction, lowering labor and hauling costs,
increasing the percentage of profits, tj Your
bank manager will tell you to save with
a REO!
REO STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne, Vic.
REO MOTOR (SALES), LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
DENNY BROS., LTD.,
439-447 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY
REO
lAN SING, MICHIGAN
SPEED WAGONS and TRUCKS


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Lilac Time”
C«™ ON . “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
RoyaXi “Sons o’ Guns”
Comedy “Mary Rose”
State Movies ana Talkies
_♦
However things may be on the cash side,
Williamsons appear to be doing much better
in Sydney now than in the six months Before
the Depression. The Edgar Wallace gunman
show has. been a success at the Cri., and
even the revival of a featherweight piece like
“Lilac Time” has been prosperous enough to
demand an extended session at Her Majesty’s.
Report- from Melbourne shows the same
position there; tw T o theatres and crowds to
fill ’em. In Sydney talkies took one J.C.W.
theatre and immature golf another, and no
doubt the Firm is blessing both, even though
the. talkies and the tonky game, in both of
which it has money, have flopped a bit. At
least they wipe out the two theatres too
many.
But there seems to be more in the revival
of public support for legit, than merely the
providential cutting of supply to suit demand.
The whipping down of prices must have
helped a bit. The offerings, too, are possibly
a shade better than they were immediately
8.D., though they’re still on the very light-
weight side. Present observer submits that
the D. itself is most responsible. The theatre,
more than any other institution, exists by
transporting people out of the life they're
living into one that they have no prospect
of ever living, and at the moment there are
more people than usual with stronger reasons
than usual for wanting to escape. The
theatre doesn’t give them escape, of course,
but it gives an even more acceptable equiva-
lent —the illusion thereof. Before the D. the
lightweight fare the Firm offers was not
such a deuce of a lot different from the
lightheart life of its prospective consumers.
Stronger fare might have done the trick then
that the light fare is doing now. Now the
crowd is discovering that life as presented by
the Popgun Hussars, entrenched on pretty
well every stage in Australia at the moment,
is so different from the life created by poli-
tical dalliance and ineptness that it is worth
while paying, even in such hard times, for
the illusion of living it.
It is no great compliment to the Firm that
it is thus providing w’hat the public wants.
That js purely accidental. If present cir-
cumstances hadn’t arisen, J.C.W. would have
been offering just the same sort of stuff
that it is offering, and the crowd would
have .been turning a blase nose up at it.
* * ¥
Those in quest of an excellent evening’s
entertainment need go no further than the
Tivoli, Melbourne, where Allan Wilkie and
Miss Hunter-Watts are presenting “H'ay
Fever,” the first Noel Coward comedy to reach
the Australian stage per medium of a pro-
fessional company. To produce this play the
redoubtable Allan had to take a double somer-
sault and handspring out of the sixteenth
century into the twentieth and land on his
feet, smiling; and, to' be frank, present
critic did not think he could do it without
hitting the sawdust.
As a matter of fact, it would be hard to
imagine the thing better done. Miss Hunter-
TISCHA GUILLE, “On the Spot” at Sydney Criterion.
Watts has to make a prolonged appeal as
a retired actress who, in her home in the
country, surrounds herself with an atmo-
sphere of theatrical artificiality. Over-act-
ing is essential, and the leading lady pro-
vides it in good measure while still making
it appear native to her. Mr. Wilkie is her
novelist husband, and their son (Keith
Johns) and daughter (Elma Gibbs) complete
a Bohemian family of “The Constant
Nymph” genus, but, of course, lacking the
psychological interest and deen beauty of
the Sanger menage. Coward’s aim is witty
tomfoolery. Each member of the family
invites an acquaintance down for the week-
end for frankly philandering purposes, and
John D’Arcy, Mona Barlee, Reginald Dane
and Ray Fisher turn up, with con-
fused consequences. The fun emerges from
the retired actress’s ingrained habit of turn-
ing every flirtation, her family’s included,
into a stage romance requiring finalisation in
the poison-cup or the divorce court. Wilkie
and co. deserve all the support available for
their latest outbreak.
* * *
Barrie’s lugubrious “Mary Rose,” revived
by the Ethel Morrisons at Melbourne
Comedy on Saturday, does not require the
attention of a dramatic critic. What it calls
for is the services of a pathologist. An
expert in mental diseases would probably
find much to interest him in the eminent
playwright’s extraordinary story of the wife
who vanished for 30 years into Fairyland and
returned, still of the same age as when she
departed, to find her husband an old man and
her son grown to her own age, but missing.
A realist might have made a great play out
of such an explosive situation, but the elderly
Scotch sentimentalist takes one horrified
peep at the mess he has created and hastily
bolts back to the nursery. He allows his
heroine to die of a broken heart and to haunt
the paternal rooftree looking—“poor ghostie”
—for something she has lost, she knows not
what. The something turns out to be her
son, who has fled to Australia, joined the
A.1.F., and returned as a Digger. Of all
the situations Barrie has invented he never
created anything so flabbily sentimental as
the last, in which poor ghostie confronts
her son, who, having dreamed of the events
he had not previously been aware of, recog-
nises his mother and takes the wraith upon
his knee and comforts her, before she makes
her final departure to Spookland. It says
something for Barrie’s stagecraft that this
scene passed without more than a few titters.
If there is anything more unpleasant to a
spectator with a moderate sense of reality
than this scene, it is the love-making on the
island, when Mary Rose, a wife of three
years’ standing and a matron, reveals that
her relations to her husband are those of a
baby towards its mother. By this scene alone
Barrie earns the title to being England’s
A 1 Jlolson.
A local newspaper says, regarding the piece,
that “Barrie’s mind must for ever be a sealed
book to the matter-of-fact person.” But one
doesn’t need to be matter-of-fact to see that
“Mary Rose” is merely another assertion by
Barrie that men and women are horrible,
hateful creatures, inconveniently inclined to
be hearty and robust in their habits, dis-
concertingly apt to make even carnal pas-
sion seem beautiful —so let’s pretend that
they don’t exist and get back to the purity
and prattling innocence of the nursery;. and,
this being a supposedly adult play, let’s call
the nursery Fairyland.
The actual performance raised doubts as
to whether entrepreneurs are gifted with in-
fallible judgment. The present co. had just
made a fine reputation in modern sophisti-
cated drawing-room comedy. Switched into
Barrie’s world it seemed as ill at ease as an
elephant on a bicycle. Nevertheless Rowe
performed a remarkable feat in turning him-
self from a young lieutenant into a middle-
aged post-captain, and Miss MacGregor’s
Mary Rose was correctly babyish, though she
lacked the roguishness Angela Baddeley gave
Mary in the original 1926 Boucicault produc-
tion. Ethel Morrison and Harvey Adams
served as her parents, the latter providing
the most dramatic moment of the play in
alliance with Frank Bradley as the Scotch
fisherman with a taste for Euripides. In
the supernatural passages Gertrude Boswell,
as a most impressive housekeeper, succeeded
in infusing terror even into the ushers.
¥ * *
Fritz Hart’s Sunday symphony con-
cert in the Botanic
Gardens, Mel-
bourne, attracted
15,000 people, a
couple of hundred
ducks, black swan
and other wild-fowl.
The progr amme
was of the light
variety and in-
cluded the conduc-
tor’s own “Seeds of
Love” and the first
movement of
Dvorak’s “New
World” symphony.
If anything, the
surroundings were
more beautifully
harmonious than
the music, which
suffered from the
assistance of several
radio amplifiers.
These seemed to be
rather out of step
with the conductor’s
baton, giving a
slightly muffled
effect. Listeners out
of the influence of
these mechanical
adjuncts, however,
got the benefit of
some sensitive play-
ing. A feature of
the concerts pro-
vided by the muni-
ficence of Sidney
Myer is the good
behavior of the vast
audiences. It is in
sharp contrast to
the nose-blowing,
coughing and chair-
scraping which ac-
companies indoor
concerts. Possibly
this is because of the great variety of
interests provided. When a long piece ceases
to grip a listener he can give his attention
to the fugue being executed by the flappers
passing and repassing on a green bridge span-
ning a lake in the distance, or the slow move-
ment in F of two whitei swans in a pool of
enamelled reflections, or the appassionata
sonata of two sparrows on a neighboring
acacia.
* # *
This Showman will not pretend any admi-
ration for Sidney Howard’s “The Silver
Cord,” but worse entertainment has been
made out of better stuff than is being
made out of this same play by the Independ-
ents at Sydney Savoy. Their presentation
on Saturday night was much superior to
the “Cord” as rendered by the late and un-
lamented Turret a year •or so ago. Doris
Fitton, making a first appearance since she
set out to fill the rather large Little Theatre
with amateur productions, acted capitally
as Christina. Alathea Siddons overacted as
the mother who wants to keep her sons
fastened for ever to the apron-strings. Still,
she put some ginger into the piece. There
was sound support by Richard Parry, Philip
Lewis and Marguerite Cullen-Ward.
The Independents, who are “Under the
Patronage of Miss Nellie Stewart,” have
more warrant for paying themselves and a
fine lady that compliment than the chap who
brags a vice-regal patronage on the strength
of mending the Governor’s cook’s gunmetal.
£Pel” a
!,!!H„a eX n . PI T T> Ctl Tj\,’ o An - <1 S ?, °* d ’
comedy by J. B. Tagan, m which Pepys is
anaffair with Mrs. Knight, one of
Cliai les 11. s ladies. It will be put on about
tlnee Aveeks hence, and, provided it is not
taken too seriously by its players, it should
be ,i*. firsUrate laughmaker There, are some
rattling, almost actor-proof, situations m it.
¥ *
Calling itself the Burdekin Players (be-
cause it meets at old Burdekin House), a
new amateur
dramatic group has
been formed in
Sydney. It is a
bud from the Com-
munity Playhouse,
largely inspired by
the same ideals, in-
cluding the encour-
agement of Austra-
lian drama, though
not of bad plays
merely because they
are Australian, or
because Mrs.
Whatsit wrote them
or Mrs. Whosit
wants to produce
them. The Burde-
kins will produce
the next play by
Leslie Haylen, the
young Wagga re-
porter whose “Two
Minutes’ Silence”
was among the
best things the
Community offered
last year. The play
is a four-actcr
called “A Change
of Policy.”
* *
Nat Phillips con-
tinues to hit Syd-
ney Opera House
crowd cleverly and
nightly on the
funnybone. The
present bill in-
cludes Sid Beck
doing Shakspeare
as Wilkie wouldn’t
have done it, and
an all-round jolly
crowd doing revue
as Wilkie pro-
bably couldn't have
done it.
DOROTHY BRUNTON, to lead in “Dearest Enemy”-at Sydney
Majesty’s.
“On the Spot” is still good business at
Sydney Cri., but its successor is being con-
sidered. The favorite is “My Lady’s Dress,”
in which Harvey played on his last visit
opposite Emelie Polini. Second favorite is
another Wallace masterpiece, “The Calen-
dar.” Romola Hansen, the personable little
lady now, in “Lilac Time” at Her Majesty’s,
will probably step into Polini’s .shoes if the
favorite wins. “Lilac Time” ends on March
6, and Marie Bremner goes to Melbourne
to do half a dozen Gilbert and Sullivan roles.
The next Majesty’s offering will be “Dearest
Enemy” on March 7, with Dot Brunton as
an Irish girl clad in an empty barrel.
* ¥ *
Shakspeare will have an airing at Sydney
Savoy on March 19 and 20, with matinees
on the same dates and another the following
afternoon. The piece is “Midsummer
Night’s,” presented by Roland McCarty, with
Augustus Neville (ex-Wilkie co.) probably
as Bottom, Alathea Siddons as Helena and
Phyllis Maxwell as Titania.
* * *
On the screen Australians like to see their
own country last. Since the Vic. Quota Act,
compelling exhibitors to show 1000 feet of local
film per programme, suburban theatres send in
as a matter of routine a return stating that
the quota has been duly observed, and in
many cases that is all they do about it.
In the States which have no quota Australian
film is seldom seen. Yet Independent Films,
which distribute the Commonwealth product,
have 2000 English theatres booked every
week.
SHADOW SHOWS.
British picture-producers seem to be mas-
tering the technique of the game at last.
Their films run more and more smoothly, and
their characters are ceasing to be mere cari-
catures. In addition, a real improvement
is noticeable on the photographic side and
in sound reproduction. “The Middle Watch,”
by lan Hay and Stephen King-Hall, .seen at
the State Theatre, is the best film on display
in Sydney. It is a smartly-spoken, easy-
running and clean comedy, played by a well-
chosen cast. A naval man would doubtless
find some technical faults, but to the layman
it is excellent fooling. The officers of a
British cruiser on the China coast give a
dance, and, accidents happening, two girls
and a chaperon are compelled to sleep on the
ship. The chaperon . disappears into the
gyro-compass-room; the dears are hauled
before the captain, who provides them with
pyjamas and bunks. Although reputedly a
misogynist, the captain is soon dancing
attendance on one of his fair guests. Then
comes a message from the flagship announc-
ing that the admiral also proposes to sleep
aboard. He arrives, the captain and the com-
mander behave like nervous schoolboys, and
there are some hurried swappings of cabins
before the big man is got safely beneath
the blankets. One of the girls, who finds that
she can’t sleep, prowls about, and wanders
by accident into the admiral’s cabin. A tremen-
dous uproar follows, but the ladies manage
to straighten things out in the morning. Owen
Nares, as the captain, gave a polished per-
formance ; Jack Raines made a pleasant and
convincing commander; and Frederick Volpe
was excellent as the blustering admiral,
Some clever comedy work was supplied by
Henry Wenman and Reginald Purdell as the
marines whose job it was to guard the ladies’
sleeping quarters. Jacqueline Logan and
Dodo Watts were the pick of the feminine
side of the cast, and Muriel Aked shone as
the chaperon. A picture that should not
be missed,
* * *
TTruversal’s “The Lnriv Surrenders”—
b on ] ohn Erskine’g novel “Sincerity”
” at Sydney Plaza is noteworthy for the
screen debut of Genevieve Tobin. This
ta j en t ed ac tress lifts the picture above the
usual rUn of fflms dealing with the matrimo-
njai m i x . U p S 0 f the insufficiently occupied rich,
j sa fj e i Beauvel, a successful novelist, is mar-
r j ed t 0 Winthrop BeauA r el, a wealthy young
manu f ac furer. In an article published
under a nom dc plume she derides the wedded
state. Winthrop, impressed by the article
and unaware of the writer’s identity, writes
requesting a meeting, to which Isabel
dispatches her friend Mary. Owing to bad
weather Mary and the young husband spend
a night under the same roof. Isabel hastens
to Europe to get a divorce, picking up a
French rou4 on the voyage. On the day
when the divorce is to be granted the French-
man throws over Isabel, and she decides to
stick to Winthrop, but that young gentle-
man has meanwhile compromised Mary.
Mary, goaded by the other woman, un-
successfully attempts to kill herself, which
so softens Isabel’s heart that she con-
sents to divorce Winthrop. The play
is less mawkish in the sentimental passages
than might be supposed. Rose Hobart as
Isabel was almost as good as Genevieve Tobin,
who played Mary. Conrad Nagel was a trifle
heavy as the husband, and Basil Rathbone
not altogether at his best as the rakish
Frenchman.
* * *
“Renegade,” a Fox production shown at
Sydney Regent, is rich in all the ingredients
expected in novels and plays dealing with
the French Foreign Legion. Four wronged
heroes, learning that their company is
about to attack a Riff stronghold, escape
from the guardhouse and rejoin the
ranks, there to cover themselves with
glory. While they are being decorated
their leader, Deucalion, a former officer,
sights Eleanore, a spy, who had betrayed
him during the Great War. He attempts to
kill her, but native police interfere, whereat,
with two of his comrades, he deserts to the
enemy. The renegades kidnap Eleanore,. in-
tending that she should have a rough time
in the Riff encampment, but that astute lady
vamps the chief. Riffs under Deucalion’s
command pen up the Legionaries in a fort,
and the boss deserter, attempting to parley
with his former brothers-in-arms, gets a
knock-back. The Riff chief, egged on by
Eleanore, arrives and decides to attack inde-
pendently of the ex-Legion officers, who sup-
port their old comrades at the last moment.
A gripping story for blood-and-thunder
addicts. A virile cast included Warner Bax-
ter as Deucalion and Myrna Loy as Eleanore.
* # ¥
In “Feet First,” the Paramount comedy
at Sydney Capitol, Harold Lloyd returns to
his skyscraper-climbing antics, and is fun-
niest when he doesn’t utter a word. The
opening scenes are set in Honolulu, where
Lloyd is a muddle-headed apprentice whose
one desire is to be a glib-tongued footwear
salesman. He rescues Mary, secretary to
his employer’s wife, from an ugly scene
with a tough-looking lorry-driver into whose
vehicle her car has crashed. They become
friends, and he is presently found neglecting
his salesman’s job to day-dream about her.
While delivering shoes aboard a U.S.A.-
bound liner he overstays his time on the
boat and finds himself an unwilling pas-
senger. He runs across his employer and
his wife and Mary, all of whom take him
for one of the idle rich, and his efforts to live
up to the part and avoid the ship’s officers
provide a lot of comedy. He hides himself
in a mailbag; it is thrown to a waiting
’plane, which speeds shorewards; and he is
seen clinging precariously to a window-sill
200. feet above the ground. There follows a
typical Lloydish piece of stunting up and
down the face of the skyscraper. Barbara
Kent as Mary lends fine support.


ALICE IN WONDERLAND.
"The Lang plan provides for the immediate printing of £20,000,000 worth of notes, with more as the need arises.
ALICE: "All banknotes—and all for me! But will they buy anything?”
THE MAD FINANCIER: "Of course they won’t. But look at the fun you’ll get but of imagining what they might have bought if they’d been real.”
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Arbitrary Reduction of Interest
Dear Bulletin, —Are we in a state of
national emergency? If we are, all the oppo-
sition to arbitrary reduction of interest on
internal loans (both Governmental and pri-
vate) is so much humbug.
Those who say that interest must not be
lowered arbitrarily still agree that it will be
a good thing to have interest down, but
contend that it must come about by a natural
process of expiry and renewal. So it
becomes a matter of degree. How lucky we
should be if all contracts expired next week,
so that without risk of any charge of re-
pudiation we could secure all the advantages
of new, low rates!
Of course we must first assure the new,
low rates; but by (1) balancing of budgets,
(2) a policy of restrained Government bor-
rowing, and (3) vigorous mutual action by the
State and private banks, they can be assured.
With all these conditions effective, would
it not be better to look this bogey of “arbi-
trary reduction” squarely in the face than
to delay the realisation of improved con-
ditions while tens of thousands of loan
contracts are running out? The ideal would
be a general sacrifice in wages and a general
sacrifice in interest to operate simul-
taneously. The contention that wages con-
stitute a weekly contract while interest is a
long-term proposition is technically accurate
but is somewhat specious.
The truth of the matter is that we are
afraid of the charge of repudiation, and it is
commendable that we should be so; but, in
a case of national emergency, this should not
bar us from rendering a great service to the
nation, including those very people whose
rights are said to be repudiated. In proof:
wages are down, contributing further to-
wards the buying power enjoyed by the bond-
holder’s interest. Let that pass—he is
entitled to the gain. If interest fell, say,
one per cent., there would be such a load
lifted from the producing community that
prices w T ould drop further by reason of
lower costs, and this drop would be capped
by another arising out of the fillip to pro-
duction, absorbing workers, conferring
spending power, increasing production
volume and reducing unit cost. The measure
of these last two drops is conjecture, but it
might well be such as to enable £6 to have
the former buying power of £7. If it did
the bondholder would have made no sacrifice
if his interest were reduced arbitrarily from
7 p.c. to 6 p.c. He would have gained by
reason of his problematical 7 p.c. from an
industry field hampered by heavy unemploy-
ment having been replaced by 6 p.c. (with
equal buying power) from a field of indus-
trial activity. Unquestionably thousands of
bondholders view the matter in this light
and would welcome a universal move.
Arbitrary reduction of interests without
the safeguard of the three conditions out-
lined above would, of course, be sheer lunacy,
but with them it would be of inestimable
value, particularly to those bondholders who,
while nominally protected for their con-
tracted interest rate, have diminished secur-
ity at the present time.
While the reduction of interest might, in
the case of Government loans, be by a
system of taxation, this proposal should not
be tolerated in the case of private trans-
actions. The relief must be given to the
borrower or the mortgagor, and the more
widely distributed this relief the more cer-
tain the encouragement of private enterprise.
Oversea indebtedness would be unaffected ;
but the improved conditions which would
result in Australia would improve our risk
status, and similar benefits would accrue, but
by a different route.
A lead by the banks and other big finan-
cial institutions in co-operation with the Gov-
ernment would take the sting from any
charge of repudiation, and would ensure
cheerful public acceptance of the measure.
Remembering always the three conditions
set out —which are practical—and accepting
the fact that we are facing a crisis, would it
not be reasonable to secure for producers
every saving that can be made at the earliest
moment possible ? —Your.s, N. B. Bonis. .
Why the Politicians Have Failed
Dear Bulletin, —There is no doubt that
the politician has failed lamentably in his
duty to Australia. Party has something to
do with it as tending to bring into public
life mere pawns in the party game, lacking
in independence and force of character. But,
speaking as one with a long experience in
Parliament, I say without hesitation that
the daily press is largely responsible for the
failure of our politicians.
Of late, since our troubles have thrust
themselves upon notice, our newspapers have
given considerable prominence to public
affairs. But until forced to do this in their
own interests the part taken by the daily
press in politics was almost negligible, when
not positively mischievous. The ponderous
and flatulent leading articles were carefully
ignored by the average reader. The short
summaries of Parliamentary debate only ex-
panded into detail when some sensational
and generally discreditable episode occurred.
And, speaking again from my own experi-
ence, it was really remarkable how the
reporters failed to give the public any know-
ledge of the best Parliamentary work. I
have listened to a fine speech by one of the
few solid Parliamentarians, only to find it
dealt with the next morning in the. news-
papers in one or two sentences, while the
silly and extravagant bunkum spouted by
some third-rater was given at length. That
doesn’t make for a high standard of public
life, and the result .is seen in a steadily
declining quality of Parliamentary debate.
The good men ’ are discouraged; sooner or
later they are shunted as failures, while the
mere ranter comes to the fore.
A little while ago the heroic self-sacrifice
of two medical men in Perth, victims of
X-ray work for the benefit of suffering
humanity, was casually referred to in a brief
paragraph. But let someone acquire a cer-
tain degree of facility in slapping at a ball
with a flattened piece of wood, or another
perform sleight-of-hand tricks on a table
with a stick and little ivory spheres, and the
newspapers make supermen of them and call
on Australians to inflate their chests with
pride over such national heroes.
Wliat wonder then that our people pay
little attention to the things that really
matter, that the best men are pushed out
of politics or abandon public life in despair,
leaving the field to the mountebank and
adventurer? Until our daily press realises
its responsibilities, I see little hope for the
future of Australia. —Yours, Old ’Un.
What Is Our £l3O Really Worth?
Dear Bulletin, —As you cannot get gold
for the £ Australian, what determines its
value abroad? If it costs us, say, £l3O in
our money to produce and export goods
which we must sell for £lOO gold value, does
not that decide the gold value of our £130?
When we borrow abroad sufficient money
to keep exchange at par, is there not a
great flow of wealth from Australia? The
exchange rate is put out of step with the
price levels here and abroad. Money earned
here at our price levels is transferred, with-
out cost, to countries where its producing
power is greater, and vice versa. Money
borrowed in Britain by the Government is
transferred at par to Australia, where the
price level is higher, and so the Govern-
ment does not get value for its borrowings,
Does not the present exchange rate only
make that loss apparent when we cease bor-
rowing and have to convert our higher price-
level money to gold in order to pay interest?
All produce having suffered the same rela-
tive fall (or, it may be said, the price of
gold having risen), will not the gold value
of our currency fall in keeping with that of
our exports? That, of course, unless we
can greatly increase the volume of out
exports without a corresponding issue of
currency; and in that case would not our
cost of production fall, and so even things up ?
The Bulletin has frequently drawn
attention to the drift from the land to the
cities in Australia. The same movement is
apparent in America, especially since the
war. Are not the causes somewhat similar
in both countries? The price levels in both
countries are above those in Europe,
America receives large payments from
Europe as interest on war debts. Australia
received large payments as the proceeds of
borrowing These payments prevent the true
cost of production being reflected by the
exchange rates, and so primary producers
in both countries have been ‘penalised.—
Yours, G. H. Griffiths.
.
The Meanness of Inflation
Dear BULLETlN—lnflation is a mean
policy. Take my friend A’s case. Fourteen
years ago A had 320 acres of indifferent land
and owed £l5OO on it. Another farmer, B,
owned 040 acres with no mortgage Now
°\ ,i■ j .a ■ Viio f nrm
A did everything possible to make his faim
pay, Whereas B was a loafer and when he
wasn t in the pub wa*: often on the race-
course. A a\ ag . , , ,
debt and having £3OOO to spare lent it last
March to B, at Ins urgent request, taking the
640 acres as security. u o a inflation A
matuie till 193. J ,so f < , .
would again be a poor man for drunken
gambling waster would be aMe to defraud A
out of his money.—Yours, Bloko.
... _ , * ... «
Why Not Kevive the Jubilee. _
Dear BULLETIN, — One of the causes of the
economic troubles of this old world of ours,
and a very much more influential one than
any defects in our monetary, systems, is the
ingenuity and persistence with which man-
kind has sought out means of getting itself
into debt, and the extreme inadequacy of its
efforts to repay its obligations. This little
trait of human nature was well understood
by the lawgivers of the nation that knows
most about money—the Jews. They foresaw
that unless some check were put upon the
proclivity there would be a dickens of a lot
of tribulation coming to Israel. Hence we
find in Exodus and Deuteronomy enactments
providing that in every seventh year all debts
as between Jews should be remitted, all
landed property mortgaged as security for
debt .should be restored to its owners, and
all Jews who had sold themselves into slavery
should be released. Eater in the history of
the nation this arrangement was found im-
practicable, and the wiping off of old scores
was accomplished every fiftieth year—the
year of jubilee. That seems to have worked
all right for some hundreds of years. No
hardship was occasioned to lenders—they
knew the law’ and acted accordingly. One of
the principal aims of the priesthood was to
preserve to the original holders and their
descendants the ownership of land, and at
one stage, even though an absolute sale had
been made, it was allowable for the vendor
or a kinsman to buy back the land at the
jubilee. But as centuries went on all sorts
of means of evading the jubilee principle
were invented, and at last, as the Talmud
gives evidence, the jubilee years were “reck-
oned” but not observed.
It seems to me that if the world is not
to grow so topheavy with debt that it can’t
carry on, it would be wise to take a leaf out
of the Priestly Code of Judah. Politicians
should be limited in their endeavors to
shackle posterity. Individuals should be
deterred from undertaking obligations _in
excess of their resources. I’m not arguing
for a literal adoption of the Jewish legisla-
tion, but for an intelligent adaptation of the
principle. If something in the nature of a
world-wide jubilee were due this year or
next year, or in ten years’ time, Australia
wouldn’t be in its present pickle, because the
lid would have been shut down on her credit
years ago; there wouldn’t be any necessity
for moratoriums to save citizens from bank-
ruptcy, and the rest of the world would be able
to offer better prices than it is offering for Aus-
tralian produce.—Yours, A. D. McSolomon.
Points from Letters
Thousands of letters pour into The Bul-
letin office these days. It is impossible to
find space for more than a few; but there
are occasional sentences which cry for print.
For example:—
“Farmer”: If the producer continues to receive
less for his produce than it costs to produce, he
will finally produce only his bare personal needs.
You will have to persuade many of us that that
stage has not been reached.
“E.G.T.”: Governments and banks have appro-
priated, indirectly and directly, our savings, and
forced us to adopt, temporarily we pray, a standard
of life approaching in comfort that of the Hottentot.
“E. Carlton”: Instead of wasting money on relief
works, instal bulk handling and save the farmer
the millions he now wastes on wheat bags. Do you
realise that this year bags are costing some of us
one-fifth or one-sixth of our wheat cheque?
From an Australian in the Solomons: If we want
a pair of boots mended we go to the trained boot-
repairer. If we want a house built we employ
those who know the job. But what of our poli-
ticians? There is but one way out of this tangle,
if we are ever to have anything but insane govern-
ment, and that is through “credentialled” states-
men and voters. Let our slogan be “The Tradesman
for the Job!” Would this be against the principles
of unionism ? If so, where’s the me of unionism ?
“J.S.P.”: The Bulletin doubts whether the pro-
ducer gets the full benefit of exchange premiums.
As far as wool is concerned, could we not insist
on bids in sterling?
“Leo”: Land values are so intricately mingled
with wealth values that it is difficult to separate
cause from effect; but one fact does stand out, and
that is the world panics of 1837, 1857, 1873, 1884,
1893, 1907 and 1929 were all preceded by great real-
estate booms. No period of prosperity can be
continuous if a condition exists that makes it more
profitable to invest wealth in the mere purchase of
the opportunities for the employment of labor which
land affords than to invest it in the employment of
labor itself. There will have to be tremendous
deflation in land values before labor and capital com-
bine to make jobs. There never could be any scarcity
of employment if labor could obtain access to land.
“Finn”: In the Gaelic League’s palmy days the
wearing of Irish material was compulsory for all
competitors at the national competitions. One Lord
Lieutenant and his wife are held in kindly remem-
brance who wore Irish cloth in public and private.
If those in high places set a good example we
should soon cease to see Fair Island cardigans on
the golf-links or Hollywood bathing-costumes on
the beach. The matter is in the hands of the women.


PLAIN AS A
v PIKESTAFF
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a'Mephisto*
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc •
U * C. HARDTMUTH. of "KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fam*
London Office— 29. Kingsway, W.C.2
Austra ian Representative-
JOHN MACDOUGALL. P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
£lO/10/-
£2O
DIAMONDS
at pre-tariff prices sire
definitely good buying.
Fairfax & Roberts offer the finest-
quality blue-white diamonds, set
in every form of the world’s
latest jewellery creations. These
diamonds were imported before
the tariff increases—and have
not been raised one penny in
price—consequently they offer
exceptional value and are ex-
cellent buying.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
£l5/15/-
£3O
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat”: Inventors interested in gliding are
advised to make a study of the seedpods
of the New Guinea maple. These have been
tested by Australian aviation experts, who
pronounce them 100 per cent, efficient, which
is more than can be said for man-made
inventions. About six inches wide, these
winged seeds are capable of soaring on an
even keel for hundreds of miles. They
loop the loop when dropped off upside down.
Nature knows all about flyinar
“Bill O’C.”: Indigenous swim-
ming and wading birds are quick
to discover new supplies of food,
however far off in the interior,
and to make their matrimonial
arrangements accordingly. A
station-hand, looking about the
shores of Lake Callabonna, at the
northern end of the Flinders
Range (S.A.), for swans’ eggs
to vary his menu, was attracted to
an islet in the lake and discovered
ah amazing flock of the banded
stilt busy nesting on that pro-
tected spot. Bird-enthusiast Dr.
Mat Morgan visited the spot, and
his photographs show the nests,
or rather separate groups of eggs
—the nests are mere makeshifts—
about a yard apart all over the
selected area, and the birds in
tens of thousands. So close are
the nests that the owners evi-
dently mistake their pitches from
time to time, hence ornithological
brawls and irregular numbers of
eggs, due to errors of the deposi-
tors —they varied from two to five
per nest, and the total number of
nests was estimated, on a meas-
urement basis, at 27,000. The
rain that filled Callabonna fell in
December last, after the lake had
been dry for ten years or more,
and the waters bred swarms of
small crustaceans, upon which the
stilts fed. Local observers noted a
similar nesting orgie when the
lake was previously filled, and it
seems very probable that the an-
cestors of the present stilts be-
haved in precisely the same way.
* * *
“Frigid” : Queer denizens of the
mangrove swamps of N.Q. are the
beckoning crabs, remarkable for
having either the right or left
claw of the male developed out
of all proportion to the rest of ttie
body. The females of the species
don’t share this peculiarity. The
armor of these crabs of both sexes
is bright blue, but the male’s huge
nipper is a most brilliant scarlet
and orange. The abos. reckon
that the male is a desperate flirt,
and that his lop-sided development
has been caused by using his claw
as a mating signat
“Hayband”: Near Holbrook (N.S.W.)
recently I met a footslogger who left Vic.
for a brand-new reason —he objected stoutly
to straight roads! “You don’t seem to be
SETTLING PRELIMINARIES.
INSURANCE CLERK: “Now, in the event of a fire”
EPHRAIM: “Yeth, let’th get down to pizness.”
IN THE CREAM COUNTRY.
DAD (speaking at Dave’s wedding ): “Dave ’ere ’as always been mad on the women,
but. now ’e’s married we ’ope ’e’ll knuckle down to the cows.”
moving on them,” he explained. “Away' in
front is an arch in the trees through which
the road passes, but you never reach that
arch. The flaming thing is always on ahead.
Now here (he brandished an arm at a strip
of gravel that rushed out of' sight around
some trees about 100 yards away) you can
see that you’re getting somewhere. I’d
sooner go around one crimson corner all
blanky day than chase a sanguiiiary arch
that sneaks up the road ahead of you like
an incarnadine dingo!”
* # * *
“F. A. Kier”: Daniel Cloddum for years
took all the prizes at our annual show for
the biggest pumpkins, parsnips, carrots and
apples. He produced them so- large that if I
were to give exact dimensions I wouldn’t be
believed. Daniel was born in Sussex, and
was a bachelor, and when in his 'B6th year
he fell sick I was one of those who did a
little to make his last hours comfortable.
I w T as with him a little before the end.
He had been lying silent for hours, but sud-
denly he grabbed my hand. “You bin kind
to me,” he said huskily, “an’ I’ll tell you my
secrets.” I tried to dissuade him—he was
exciting himself —but he would talk. “You
take crowbar,” he said gaspily, “an’ dig hole
four foot down. Fill hole with loam as rich
as you can make it. Sow parsnips or carrot
seed —three or four seeds. When they come
on let only the biggest grow. ’Twill fill hole.
If you want a big pumpkin keep only one on
the vine and pinch back the shoot. As pump-
kin grows sit you beside him bucket of
clean water. Cut. little slit in rind of
pumpkin. Put one end of a yard of lampwick
into this and t’other end in bucket. Keep
water fresh. As to apples” But I never
heard about the apples. Poor old Daniel
had gone where they don’t grow.
* * * *
“Elderly Infant” : I’ve always had a sneak-
ing sympathy for those coves who break out
of gaol, especially if, as so many of them fool-
ishly do, they rush straight home to the
bosom of their family. I was once in the
same fix myself. It was my eighth birthday
and I had a party. Towards the middle of
the afternoon, the joys of unlimited cake and
ginger-beer having begun to pall, one of the
lads suggested that we should make a foray
and raid Mr. Bulger’s cherry orchard. So
out we stalked, and as there was no sign of
Bulger about the premises we were soon
inside his fence and outside of some of his
cherries. I was high up in a tree when
there came a warning screech from my com-
panions, who scrambled over the fence just
in time to miss a charge of birdshot from old
Bulger’s gun. I emulated the ’possum, and
prayed that Bulger would return to his law-
ful occasions, but the old blighter sat down
on a garden seat where he had an excellent
view of my tree with his gun across his
knees. Time went on. I began to think of
the good things that had been promised me
for tea , that night—jellies,. sponge jam-roll,
three-cornered tarts and peaches figured m
the menu. But Bulger stayed put. In des-
peration I started to wriggle down the tree
luckily-Bulger hadn’t very good eyesight
and' at last found myself penned in a corner
of the section, surrounded by 6ft. paling
fences. I knew that if I tried to get over the
fence Bulger would spot me and either shoot
me fatally dead or have me sent to a felon s
cell. Time went on going on, and there sat
Bulger as unmovable as the rock of Gibraltar.
Suddenly I had an inspiration. Among my
birthday gifts was a very stout pocket-knife,
and with this, carefully keeping a tree
between me and the grim watcher, I loosened
a paling and crept out. I’ve never experi-
enced anything like the feeling of-relief that
filled me when I saw the outer world once
more. I galloped madly home to tea, and
crowning joy—was just in time, for it. But
I was cured of criminal tendencies.
* * * *
“D. A. Mem” : Mother Nature must have
been in a particularly bounteous mood when
she designed the flea. She endowed the crea-
ture with strong armor, exceptionally keen
eyesight, a blood-sucking apparatus that beats
the octopodes hollow, and the ability to leap
1500 times its own length in any direction
—backwards, frontwards, sideways or ver-
tically—together with a capacity for learning
by experience that is not shared by the ants
and the bees and other insects beloved by
moralists. Fleas have been taught to sit
in tiny chairs, to draw little carts and to
fire off wee cannons. Nature’s greatest gift
to them, however, is their ability to drive
creatures millions and billions of times
greater than their own bulk to the verge of
insanity. I take off my hat —indeed I often
take off my pyjamas—to the flea. AH the
same I wish someone would invent a poison
that would settle the hash of Pulex irritans.
I’ve tried about nine widely-advertised pre-
parations, and they all seem to act more as
a tonic than a sedative to my active and
brainy little bed-mates.
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The girl?” said Dave. *'l ’aven’t got a girl.
I ’ad one, yes; but that’s past history.
I thought of giving married life a burl,
But love affairs don’t finish right with me.
Last Saturday, with dancin’ on in town,
I took Maud in, an’ then she turned me
down.
“She reckoned I got shot an’ made a scene;
Shot! Cripes; an’ me as sober as a judge.
I tells ’er,. but she ses she ain’t that green ;
She ’ad ’er own ideers, an’ wouldn’t budge.
An’ when a woman thinks she’s in the
right
To shift ’er means a job for dynamite.
“I will admit I met a bloke I noo,
A mate I ’adn’t seen for donkeys’ years;
We went across an’ skittled one or two,
A brace o’ gins an’ then a few long beers.
No more than that. We didn’t get a show,
For someone said the Johns were on the go.
“An’ afterwards —well, if a cobber asks
A bloke out for a spot, he can’t decline.
I sampled maybe ’alf a dozen flasks,
A nip of rum, an’ jest a glass o’ wine.
It’s not as though I like the stuff, but still
I got me social duties to fulfil.
“I wouldn’t ’ave a jane that gets so sore.
Wot was it finished her, do you suppose?
Jest that I missed me footin’ in the door
An’ skids across the ballroom on me nose!
Jest that. Why, any girl that’s not a nark
Could see I only did it for a lark!”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


sd
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director; H Fell
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
_ N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
fe. Agency Co., Ltd.
WILL
E
ip
NW;in;l4 \i
Such is the efficiency of the British “RENRUT” Quadruple!
Owing to patented principles this pump, although smaller in
diameter than many other pumps, gives far more air per
stroke, and with much less effort than usual. Every detail
is engineer-designed and flawlessly finished in the finest
British style to give endless service under any conditions.
RENRUT"OUADRUPLE
Pateinees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Representa-
tive: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
PRICE,
60/-
With gauge,
6/- extra.
“Sol: M.”: The importance of an earth-
quake is estimated by (1) the number of
people it kills, (2) the value of property
it destroys, and (3) the extent to which
it bangsj.'about and shifts and; alters,the land-
lf' the-earthquake does its perform-
ance: in an-uninhabited region it leaves no
record save. that< in recent times the seismo-
graph lias learned to make a' note of the
event—quite, a- barren note unless,• it- is -fol-
lowed.; by news; of the .damage done. An
earthquake differs from Ithe twin calamities
of war and pestilence■; insomuch as the two
last don’t’ happen 'in uninhabited -localities.
If statisticians could devise a, method of
adding, up the three elements, destruction of
life, destruction ?of property and destruction
THESE MODERN FIXIN’S.
“Patent log, is it? Well, patent or not, I’ll bet you I caught
more fish in our billybung with worms and a coupler
’ooks in one night than they’ll catch with that there in
a year.”
of the landscape, it would he more possible
than at present to value and classify earth-
quakes. The recent disturbance in Maori-
land, judged by the alterations it made in
the coastline, may have been a bigger affair
than the one which struck Portugal in
1755 and killed 35,000 people, according to
report, but it happened to hit a less thickly-
inhabited spot. I have an idea that the
worst ’quake in many centuries was the one
which landed on Sydney in 1492, but Syd-
ney wasn’t there then, and the inhabitants
escaped because they hadn’t arrived.
MIGHTN’T LOOK IT, BUT ’E BE.
“New parson do be thin, wisht little chap, William?”
“Iss, John; but ’e be good stout churchman.”
“C.Q.” : Donald Thomson, the keen young
anthropologist who spent so many months
with his wife in the wilds of Arnhem Land
on behalf of the Rockefeller Foundation,
lias lately been catch-
ing snakes for the
Eliza Hall Institute
in Melbourne, where
the reptiles are used
in antivenene invest i-
gati o n. Thomson
was recently bitten
by a tiger-snake and
was given a stiff dose
of the serum. The
effect was salutary,
but it. had the result
of making him pecu-
liarly liable if bitten
again. Nothing
daunted, he went to-
Mount Gambier and
returned with 40
copperheads. They
were temporarily
housed at the Zoo,
and one of them pro-
ceeded to assuage his
hunger by swallow-
ing a confrere. The
orthodox method is
head first, but for
some unexplained
reason the cannibal
started on his
brother’s tail. His
proposed breakfast
promptly turned and
proceeded to enter
his assailant’s
stomach by both ex-
tremites simultane-
ously. When the
cannibal reached the
final bight there was
no going further, and
both creatures died
ingloriously. The
Zoo has been the
scene of some queer
reptilian repasts. On
one occasion two
snakes seized a frog
simultaneously, and
as neither would let
go the bigger one swallowed both the frog
and the other snake.
* * ■* *
“Prof. Watt-Shores”: A rare and curious
fish is the fiddle-faced trout (Stradivarii
slippericus) . This weird denizen of the
sea is found only at the head of Proper Bay,
Port Lincoln (S.A.). Every morning schools
of these trout swim over to Tulka Beach.
Each picks up a small round pebble in its
mouth and then the fish set off for the oyster
beds. Here they scatter. Each selects an oyster
for a victim, swims up to it very quietly,
places the pebble between the open shells
to prevent them from closing, sticks in its
garfish-like snout, brings the oyster out
impaled on the point, tosses it up and gulps
it down. Then it removes the pebble and
goes in search of a fresh' victim. Angling
for these fish is useless. They are too cun-
ning to be caught in nets. The only way
in which a specimen can be secured is by
painting yourself black, draping yourself in
seaweed, and crouching alongside the Tulka
pebble beds in the early morning camou-
flaged as a rock. Then, when the trout
come up J;o secure pebbles, you select a big
one, lay him out with a whack from a stick
—and there you are.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Along the banks of the Wollon-
dilly (N.S.W.) and many other rivers grow
willows enough to
provide wood for all
the polo balls and
cricket bats required
in Australia. In
Queensland, canes
grow that would be
suitable for the bat-
liandles. For base-
ball clubs white
handlewood, lillipilii
or manic could be
substituted for the
American hickory, of
which the clubs are
at present made.
Australian white asn
behaves well under
steam, and could be
bent for making the
frames of tennis
racquets, and there
are numerous indi-
genous timbers suit-
able for wedges and
handles. Water-gum,
myrtle or myall would
make excellent hockey
sticks. There are
numerous Australian
timbers that would
do for croquet mal-
lets. Western gidya
or Queensland box
could be turned into
first-rate lawn bowls.
All these timbers grow
in abundance, while
we import sports
materials and pay
the other fellow for
manufacturing them.
“Wirewhisker”: Back in the ’sixties the
Australian backblocks were inhabited by
men that were men and snakes that were
snakes. My grandfather used to tell a
story about a ride from Ballarat to Mel-
bourne in those days. The road was a rough
one, and under many a stone and boulder
scattered on its surface lurked a tiger-snake,
a copperhead or some other deadly serpent.
Grand-dad was jogging along one of the
most desolate and snake-infested parts of
this highway when his noble steed got a
stone in its frog. While rendering first aid
he heard an angry hiss, and something stung
him in the region to the far south of the
back. When 'he straightened up there was
no sign of a snake,' but inspected in
a pocket-mirror the skin showed two
little punctures about a quarter of an
inch apart. “Gosh,” said grand-pop to
himself, “the sooner I get to a doctor
the better!” So he stirred his nag to a
canter and went on his way. Ten miles
further on the horse got another stone in its
frog, and grandpa, ever humane, got wearily
down to attend to it again. This time he
looked carefully all around for serpents and
saw none. But as soon as he knelt he was
stung in the same place. He felt' around,
and climbed to his saddle with a happy
smile. “Why?” we kids were expected to
ask when he got to this stage. “I’ll show
you the snake,” was the old chap’s invari-
able reply; and he would fetch out a vener-
able-looking cavalry spur.
* * * $
“Tiki”; People have been writing to the
M.L. papers urging the scientists to hurry
up and find a means of prognosticating earth-
quakes. It shouldn’t be impossible. As
a matter of fact the Murchison and Napier
catastrophes were prophesied. In the issue
of the Wellington “Dominion” of June 11,
1928, was published the warning of a Maori
tohunga (priest), who said there were “pent-
up forces trying to get free” and that a
period of violent seismological disturbance
was imminent. The Maoris have lived in
the Rickety Islands for 500 years or more,
and the ability of their w r ise men and women
to read the signs of nature has been proved
on so many occasions that scepticism as to
their powers isn’t possible. Animals, also,
have premonitions before an earthquake.
Cows and horses gallop about in an alarmed
manner; dogs, if usually quiet, commence to
snap and snarl. Bad-tempered dogs become
suddenly quiet and docile. Cats howl dis-
mally, and those with kittens bring them
into the house, as if seeking human
protection for their young. Bees leave
their hives till the shock is over. Though
no instrument sensitive enough to record it
has been devised by human ingenuity there
is something tangible that presages an earth-
quake.
“Runa”; For many years it was thought
that the shells found on the crests of hills and
mountains in Maoriland were the remains of
Maori feasts held in the misty past. Some
of the collections coincided with the sites of
Maori pas, but others were found where
no fortifications had ever been. Investi-
gators have announced that not Henare but
the superseded Moriori people were respons-
ible for the relics. When the Maori came to
Aotearoa he speedily chased the peaceful
Moriori into the hinterland, built pas on
most of the suitable hills and bluffs, and
A RED-LETTER DAY.
FIRST NANNY : “How’s your kid doing since she went to the
baby clinic?”
SECOND NANNY : “Wonderful! She polished off her first jam-tin
this morning — easy.”
settled down to war as a national occupa-
tion. The Morioris, a quiet and easily-cowed
people, retired as far as the Chatham
Islands, where the last of their race died
recently, leaving it a matter of speculation
why they held their feasts on mountain
tops.
EARTH-BOUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you’re born to sandy ridge, wattle scrub
and bracken,
Though you rove ’neath tropic skies limned
in scarlet scroll,
Balm and frangipanni flower may fill your
eye with beauty,
But , the twisted roots of ti-trees bind
your soul.
If you love the..scrub-soil and the moist-green
places,
Dim blue-shadowed gullies where the
bronzewing pigeons coo,
Your heart will never thrill to the rolling
open spaces,
And seas of wheat and corn lands will hold
■no spell for you.
Tawny sloping paddocks where the sheep
are grazing,
Green low hills and apple flats ’neath a
dappled sky,
You’ll, live among and loathe them for their
placid, ordered sweetness,
And the cloying scent of hoya flowers will
haunt you till you die.
Mother Earth, the 1 sorceress, fast and firm
she binds us
To the. soil we’re made of, struggle as we
please,
And the' land you’re born for will hold your
soul for ever,
Yea, even to the pear flats and ringbarked
bloodwood-trees.
QUEENSLAND.
ALICE GUERIN CRIST.


fsd
fsd
f
&f>e
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
every razor.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and fin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
a
YJ
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor f, f, ? inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable ■ shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
m
YOUREYES
The penalty of neglect may mean that cruel affliction —
partial or total blindness. When the eyes become tender,
the lids swollen or redness develops, apply ROSE’S EYE
LOl lON instantly. This will check the trouble and pre-
vent much pain and suffering. ROSE’S EYE LOTION is
outstanding in the treatment of all affections of the Eyes so
common in the hot arid parts of Australia, and nothing could
be more safe for the Eyes of young children. Be on your
guard when purchasing. The so-called “just as good - ’ is not as
good. bay you must have ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION—the original and genuine.
Sold at all High-class Pharmacies and Stores.
OBR
&
&
SMOKE-OH!
ALTERNATIVE.
“The world would be a happier place if people
ate more sparingly.”— Dr, Arthur, M.L.A.
’Tis good advice, we may suppose,
But few of us essay to try it.
The only ones who do are those
Who either have to die or diet.
* ¥
■‘A knitting competition is being inaugurated in
the Bathurst diocese in aid of church funds.”
The see hath its purls, as the poet re-
marked.
* *
“Most criminals are milk-and-water sentimental-
ists.” — “Sun,”
Which is why they’re put in the jug.
¥ *
BOBS IN.
“They may be flappers; they are energetic flappers,
keen in the cause of charity.”— “Guardian.”
They knew that many have rough weather,
And, feeling that the poor are brothers.
They put their dear bobbed heads together
To raise a bob or so for others.
* V
“Saturday revellers crowd lock-ups.”— “Sun.”
In most cases their trouble is all over
bar shouting.
* ¥
“It’s usually the childless marriage that is a
failure.”— Melb. clergyman.
The couple ivhose union with children un-
blessed
Heads straight for a marital mess;
But marriage that’s fruitful, as statists
attest.
Is always a howling success.
* *
“Allan Wilkie says that whilst abroad he visited
the tombs of Macready, Kean and other great
Shakspeareans.”
The spots, in fact, where the rude fore-
fathers of his Hamlet sleep.
* *
“Prince of Wales as Business ‘Go-getter.’”
— “Guardian.”
For our part we’d rather see him in the
go-get-her business.
NUTS AND BOLTS.
MRS. A.: “My daughter was in the same motor accident as your boy, you know. It
was due, she told me, to a cracked bolt in the brake.”
MR. Z.: “Well, yes. Though another theory is that it was caused by a screwed knut
at the wheel.”
“And what a noise the feasters made! To them
this was a real dinner!”— “News.”
A quieter repast would merely have been
a din, presumably.
*
“When the wind blows from the direction of some
of these factories, life is almost unsupportable.”
— “News.”
The police should be put on the scent.
Although the road-hog’s life is packed
With stirring incidents and bold,
Pedestrians don’t cheer; in fact,
His exploits often leave them cold.
, # *
“Toti dal Monte and her husband will get
£120,000 for their concert season.”— Cable.
It’s refreshing to know that some people
can still get gold for notes.
* *
THE MAN FOR THE HOUR.
“Australia’s foot overhangs the precipice of
disaster; the skill of an exceptional steersman is
required to save it from being engulfed in the seas
of ruin.”—“ Pessimist” in “Sun.”
In a case like this even an exceptional
steersman is liable to nose-dive and founder
on the rocks of adversity, unless he happens
to be one of those gifted horsemen whose
sensitive hands can tell at a glance how his
gears are working. A leader of that calibre
will be able to seize the silver lining of the
cloud and weld it into a deadly weapon
against the enemies of Australia, which will
reap a rich crop from hitherto unexplored
mines of wealth.
If such a man can be found, the worst
earthquake that can shake the seas of our
economic security, causing them to avalanche
down the mountain-side of prosperity, need
cause us no terrors ; for he will seize their
broken strands firmly in his hands, and, by-
playing the hose of commonsense upon the
restless seas of depression, raise up, Phcenix-
like, the broken monuments of our financial
security so that every tree will be once more
fruitful with the golden eggs of plenty.
11. M.
¥ *
I stayed at a hash-house by the sea,
But I found the place a fraud;
I wasn’t able, ’twixt you and me,
To tell the bed from the board!
TOO RIGHT.
“You are my soul,” Maud used to say.
Her accuracy I bemoan.
Certainly since our wedding-day
I haven’t called my soul my own.
FAMILY GIFTS.
Jones brushed his hair with the bristly
brushes that had replaced his comfortable
old ones; donned the socks that tickled his
SACRED SOBJECT: "WILL THE DEAR
BROTHER OR SISTER WHO PUT
THREEPENCE IN THE PLATE-
GOD BLESS HIM OR HER-
ACCEPT MY HEARTFELT
THANKS!"
AFTER THE INFLATION.
feet, and the tie that offended his aesthetic
scul. He tried to light a vile cigar with a
patent lighter that wouldn’t work, before
he reluctantly discarded his old fountain-
pen for the new one with a hated broad nib.
Then he walked three miles to town, and
did without lunch for a month to balance
the deficit he had incurred on his own
Christmas gifts.
* H-
“The shipping industry is being shamefully
milked. ’ ’ — “Sun.”
And it’s threatening to give whey.
MIXED NURSERY RHYME.
Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross ,
Where hundreds of newly-weds spend
honeymoons ;
But we keep wide awake when their farewells
they make,
For sometimes the cows run away with the
spoons.
11. M.
RAISING THE WIND.
“Still further means of securing revenue may be
found.”— Mr. Lang.
This thought is not an idle dream ; on all
four sides the chances teem. The North Shore
Bridge brings into view untested means of
revenue. A switchback o’er the archway set,
with advertising spaces let; bridge galas on
the summer nights, and in the day the fish-
ing rights, might make the deck pay; up
on high some laundries might their washing
dry. By use of all means, high and low, the
bridge could earn a pound or so.
Then there’s the Gap. When that provides
a sliding scale for suicides, and it is fenced
off properly to baulk avoiders of the fee,
dress-circle seats we might provide for
friends to watch a suicide.
And why should we exhibit free the pic-
tures in the Gallery, when spaces on each
canvas lent might carry trade advertisement?
A nude could very fitly bear the slogan “Raggs’
for Underwear” ; The Sea Hath Pearls” could
be embossed with “Gems at Stonehaven’s
at Cost”; whilst “Blacksoil Plains” might
be a factor to advertise some modern tractor.
A score of methods may be found, if
Lang will only look around, by which,
though in a humble way, the still-free things
might earn some pay.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
ALL OUT.
“Women who attend gambling bridge parties are
not stopped by the claims of their families. They
now take the children with them, accustoming them
to the gaming atmosphere.” —Melbourne clergyman.
The minister addressed the child, who sat
there bidding high.
“Ah! Does your mother know you’re
out?” he said.
The child looked at the minister, derision
in his eye. “Of course she does,” he
answered. “Use your head! She got the
oil that I was winning piles and piles of
pelf, and stung me for a tenner, saying she
was ‘out’ herself.”
PIECRUST.
THE ORDER.
“I desire,” said the diner sternly, “a
porterhouse steak. It must be tender and
have a plentiful supply of that fillet stuff
on it.”
“Yessir,” said the waiter.
“I don’t want it overdone; on the other
hand it must not be too underdone. Be
particular on that score, waiter.”
“Yessir,” said the waiter with added defer-
ence.
“Have you any new-laid eggs?”
“Yessir.”
“I’ll have two. With the porterhouse.
You’re perfectly sure, I hope, that your
eggs are new-laid?”
“Absolutely, sir.”
“I’m very particular about my eggs. I
like the yolks nicely set—but no more. The
happy medium is what your chef must strive
after. Now are you .sure you have my direc-
tions clearly in your head?”
“Sure, sir.”
“Good. You may go.”
Ten seconds later the waiter was yelling
down the .service lift outside the dining-room
door. “Hi, ’Erbie! Steak-an’-eggs one.”
PERCY P.
THE THINKIES.
Having an hour or so to while away, I
entered the Splendiferous,, whose purple
minarets and pink icing-sugar dome loom
over the city. I had decided to sample the
latest from the U.S.A. I saw around me the
old familiar things—the Floor-captains, the
Wurlitzer, the ice-cream sellers. But there
appeared to be no lovers. Each spectator
was like myself, alone.
I read on the screen : Universal Thought
Films Inc., Minn., U.S.A. The Lure of
Lola. Passed by National Board of Censors.
Produced by Cyrus P. Fordfeller, jun. Pro-
jected by Ima D. Liah. Story by Watt A.
Bluff. Copyright by Jason K. Fleece.
CAST.
Ivan Stoushski, a Bolshevik. .Wright Hooke
Bigge D. Noyes, Ellis Island Official, R. Atts
Deadshot Ike, Luke I. Fyer
Cornelius Hornblower, a Cattle King
Justin Plaice
“Mom,” his wife Ada Guy
Hon. Jasper Derwent.... Yourself
Lola Hornblower Yourself
Suddenly a sponge seemed to pass over
my brain, and I felt an overmastering desire
to go to the U.S.A. I went —steerage. There
was a Bolshevik on
board with black
whiskers and a
•cheese - cutter. He
took a dislike to me,
and we had a scrap,
during which, to my
surprise, I outed him
with a terrific left-
hoo k. I learned
later that Stoush-
ski. the Bolshevik,
disliked me because
I was the son of a
lord. My birth
proved to be an
acute disability in
America, and I real-
ised that the only
course was to pur-
chase a cowboy’s outfit and get
a job on a ranch.
Here I took a shine to Lola
Hornblower, the lovely daugh-
ter of the Cattle King who
owned the joint. Unfortunately,
Deadshot Ike was also sweet on
her. He picked a row with me:
but before he could reach his
gate I plugged him. He waited
till his shoulder was better,
then yanked me off my horse
with, his lariat. If Lola had not come along
while he was bumping me over the ground, I
would have been out to it.
Lola was some baby, believe me. She
brought me to the ranch house, and what
with jellies and egg-flips and holding my
hand by the hour I was in no hurry to
move. But I could not bring myself to
speak the words that were in my heart. I
was poor; she was rich. Not that my poverty
made any difference. She had heard me call-
ing her name when I was delirious, and I
had heard her confessing her love for me to
the cook. Then my governor died, my
brother broke his neck, and I came in for
the title. So I proposed to Lola, and we
were married. Our children
The lights went up. I was back in the
Splendiferous.
Vaguely the memory of some tremendous
obligation kept coming back. And then....
darkness once more. The immigrant ship.
The Bolshie. Ika. Lola. The children.
“The afternoon session is over,” said a
voice in my ear. With a yelp of remorse
I leapt to my feet. The psychophoric insula-
SHE SAW IT COMING.
“Say, in some of those islands I visited
a man’s wealth is reckoned by the
number of wives he has.”
“Now, now, don’t go telling me about the
high rate of exchange.”
tion having been withdrawn, I realised it
was 5.15 p.m. I had arranged to wed the
only girl in the w-orld at 3.30 that afternoon,
and since lunch had been twice unfaithful to
her with another.
WAWHERESH.


This is your SHORTEST,
FASTEST, COOLEST route
to ENGLAND . .
Only 29 days to London
... Book now to arrive in
America in the Spring ...
England in early Summer
ESS than one month to go half-way
■l—' around the world . . . via the
glamorous South Sea Islands and thrilling,
interesting America. That is what the
Matson Line offers you.
No interminable stretches of sea. if our
trip is broken at Suva, Pago Pago, Hono-
lulu.
San Francisco—and a world of wonder
unfolds before you. Modern America —
Hollywood, Chicago, New York —sky-
scrapers, fast luxurious trains, amazing
hotels. . . . Age - old America deep,
coloured canyons, majestic snow-capped
mountains, gigantic silvery waterfalls,
vast, widespread lakes. ...
New York —-a few thrilling days. Then,
across the Atlantic on famous liners.
This can be the most wonderful month
of your life. Now is the time for the best
weather all the way. Matson service,
cuisine, and accommodation are un-
equalled. Orchestra, swimming pool—
large deck space, all deck sports. A Mat-
son Liner sails from Sydney every third
Saturday at 11 a.m. Go "home” now
by this shortest, fastest, coolest route .
MAIL THIS COUPON to the address
below.
Please send me free information oh a
trip to Suva □ Pago Pago □ Honolulu H]
United States Q and England □„
Ml
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Telephone B 7981-3
LON
FRISCO
CHIC
N YORK
SYD SUVA PACO
H LULU
SAN FRANCISCO
19 DAYS i
HONOLULU t
13 DAVS
PACO PACO
6 DAVS
SUVA
DAYS
SYDNEY
mmnw
LONDON
29 DAYS
1A
NEW YORK
23 DAYS
Average yearly temperatures encountered via
Matson—the coolest, popular route to England,
The shortest, fastest, coolest route to England! A most interesting route —every type of
scenery. Exotic tropical islands, gigantic skyscrapers, amazing cities, natural, vivid, world-
famous scenes—and only 29 days to London!
m
You can cross the Atlantic on the world’s
largest and fastest liners —in six days or less!
S 3
m
Sy^y
■
Colourful San Francisco —the terminus of
the Matson Line and of important railways.
mi;.*
New York’s gigantic
skyscrapers are right on
this route to England.
This is the amazing
Hotel New Yorker.
Beauties from
sunny Hawaii smile
with gleaming
teeth, dance with
bewitching rhythm
and bid you
“Aloha!”
Highest of all cataracts
—-Yosemite Falls—Yose-
mite National Park.
Total drop is almost 3
half mile!
44
FARM ACCOUNTS"
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a .proper basis
and keep it there.- In no other calling is it more necessary to'follow every
branch of the business and see-where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


\
a
Now YOU Can
Pay by CHEQUE
Everyone realises the advantages of
paying by cheque—-many have not had
the opportunity of using such a banking
account. You can do so now with a
deposit this week. Earn interest —save
money.
HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
—KEEP IT GROWING.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
ASSURED POSITIONS—BETTER MONEY.
sdf
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL.
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Fig'ht Against Insect Pests
The Fruit Industry is important, and because its importance is recognised
it is absolutely necessary to take adequate precaution to control and eradicate
the presence of harmful insects. Proper control can only be obtained from
the use of standard insecticides, of which Albarol, Harbas and Harola are
pre-eminent
Clean, marketable fruit is assured when the trees are sprayed with Albarol
the new White Oil Emulsion. Such pests as White Louse and the various scale
diseases are effectively destroyed with this spray.
Further information and descriptive booklets concerning the above-mentioned
sprays may be obtained on application to the manufacturers,
LANE’S, LIMITED, Box 17, Post Office, Chippendale, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
SPLENDID N.S.W. WHEAT CROPS.
“Jamwood”: Very high praise is given,by
Mr. H*. C. Stening, the N.S.W. Chief In-
structor of Agriculture, to the prize-winning
wheat crops in the championship competition
conducted in the Southern Slopes area, cover-
ing the Albury, Burrowa, Coolamon, Coota-
mundra, Culcairn, Henty, Wagga, Murrurn-
burrah, Temora, The Rock, Yerong Creek
and Young districts. First prize was awarded
to Mr. J. Mathews, of Bulgandra, for a crop
of Yandilla King estimated to go 44 bushels
to the acre, “the best crop that has ever
competed in championship competitions in
this State,” says Mr. Stening. The crop
placed second, grown by Mr. W. J. Scott,
of Munyahla, was also reckoned at 44
bushels, but it was not so perfect as the Bul-
gandra one, the chief defect being the pres-
ence of saffron thistles. In this case also
Yandilla King was the variety. A crop of
Waratah, grown by Mr. H. J. Jennings, of
Culcairn, on land cultivated for about 30
years,* and estimated to return 41 bushels,
gained third prize. “The estimated yields
of four crops,” the judge reports, “exceeded
40 bushels per acre, and the average yield
of the whole of the crops (13 in all) was
36.69 bushels per acre, which surpasses all
previous results.”
In Air. Stening’s opinion the cultivation
methods practised by the Southern Slopes
farmers are “better than in any other part
of the (N.S.W.) wheat belt.” The competi-
tion emphasised the value of early fallowing
—the three farmers singled out had fallowed
in July—and also of cultivating oats in
rotation with wheat—in the cases of four
of the six leading crops this had been done.
“The practice of growing oats in rotation
with wheat is of value in maintaining the
fertility of the soil,” Mr. Stening observes,
“and in controlling such diseases as flag
smut, take-all and foot-rot, the spores of
which are in the soil. When the oat crop is
utilised for grazing and the crop residues and
sheep droppings ploughed in, added advan-
tages are' derived by restoring humus to the
soil and thus improving its physical con-
dition, as well as in controlling weed growth.
There is no better means of ridding a pad-
doek of black oats than by growing oats as
a fodder crop.”
Rates of sowing varied from 601 b. to 851 b.
per acre; the two great crops of Yandilla
King were the results of seedings of 701 b.
and 751 b. per acre in the last week in April.
An average of 811 b. per acre of super, was
applied. Some of the crops were fed off to
sheep, the Munyabla one very “judiciously.’
Wheat had not been grown on this land
since 1925. In 1926 it furnished a crop of
oaten hay; it wms fallowed in 1927 and
sown with sorghum, which was fed off;
after a disc cultivation in October, 1925, a
self-grown crop of sorghum resulted, which
was also grazed, the land being spring-
toothed in July and then ploughed for
fallow in August.
AN EMERGENCY BIN.
“8.W.”: It is a wise farmer who builds
an emergency bin in which to tip his wheat
in case of a holdup in the railway yards.
In N. S Wales this season many a man
carted wheat 15 or 20 miles to country silos
to find them full. He had to take the load
home, at his wits’ end to know what to do
with it, having no bags and no money to
buy them. And it isn’t as if bins cost such
a great deal. A progressive farmer of my
acquaintance estimates that a ton of corru-
gated iron would do the job, and any handy
man could construct one.
My friend’s bin is 21ft. in diameter by 12ft.
high—6ft. or Bft. under ground level. No
soldering is required except in the case of
the roof; and a coating of concrete outside
underground saves the iron. The thing holds
1000 bags of wheat, and one man can cart
from harvesters over 200 bags a day and tip
into the bin for wdiat it costs to sew and
stack.
With a small oil-engine and elevators a
man or boy can daily fill an overhead bin
of sufficient capacity for a waggon load. The
waggon drawls alongside the overhead bin
and shoots therefrom convey wheat by gravi-
tation into bags. With patent fasteners the
load is put on with less labor than. by the
bag-loading system. When the bins are
emptied in January or February they can
be filled with chaff for winter use, with a
further saving for stack thatching. The bin
in question holds 17 tons of chaff. One like
it would be a boon to the remote farmer
who has to stack his wheat in the paddock
in bags until he has finished harvesting.
A REMARKABLE MOUNTAIN FARM.
“Old Toolong”: The old English saying
that the farmer is three-fourths of the farm
was exemplified in the Commonwealth Fertil-
isers competition. One of the champion
cups was won by a 130-acre farm which
hangs upon the sides and top of a 2000 ft.
mountain 20 miles from anywhere. And
this in competition with farms located on
the richest strawberry-clover flats in Gipps-
land—flats whose fertility perhaps equals
anything in the known world.
When the present owner went into occu-
pation of this block it was hardly possible
to see 10 yards in any direction for timber —
Gippsland tall timber, under-grown with a
hundred kinds of scrub. This having been
destroyed was succeeded by a growth of
bracken, still more troublesome to get rid of.
Only about 30 acres in all was it possible
to plough ; and for several years no return
at all came in. Afterwards, by taking out
cream per packliorse and then by sledge, the
farmer raked in a little money.
Last year (one of moderate prices), the
return from the 130 acres was about £l2OO
in cash, and you might add £3OO for the
produce of all kinds consumed by the farmer
and his household; or well over £ll per
acre in all. And only 12 acres was ploughed
for summer feed, the winter standby con-
sisting of red clover hay obtained from a
slightly larger area, which is ploughed
over about once in five years. An expendi-
ture of £3O per year for super. lia,s in five
years lifted the carrying capacity from 30
to 40 head of milkers; and, combined with
herd-testing, has increased the butter-fat
yield per cow 40 per cent.
These results are so good and- so encourag-
ing to all people faced with the problem of
making a living off the land that they cannot
be too widely known.
ESTABLISHING WINTER PASTURES.
“Agronom”; The vigorous summer-grow-
ing grasses of the coastal pastures of N. S.
Wales and Queensland fail in the winter.
Then cattle lose condition and production
declines. While pastures are composed en-
tirely of paspalum, which is essentially a
warm-weather grass, this winter decline will
always be in evidence. The position can be
remedied by intelligent pasture management.
Dairy-farmers who have laid down winter
pastures of suitable grasses have been well
repaid. No great expenditure of labor or
cash is involved. Excellent winter pasture
has even been provided by broadcasting Wim-
mera rye grass over a closely-grazed pas-
palum paddock during March or early April.
Rain carries the seed in, and in normal sea-
sons rapid germination and growth occur.
About 41b. to 61b. of seed per acre is ample.
Annual top-dressing of such pastures with
lcwt. of super, per acre applied in the
autumn is recommended. This not only
stimulates the rye grass, but it also greatly
increases the growth of the winter-growing
white Dutch clover, which is present in most
of the pastures.
If old cultivation land is available it is
a good plan to lay down a definite winter
pasture of one of these mixtures: (1) Per-
ennial red and white Dutch clovers and tall
oat grasses; or (2) perennial rye grass,
Phalaris bulbo.sa and cocksfoot. These should
be sown in the autumn. If old cultivation
land is not available, paspalum sod can be
broken up, and after growing sorghum or
maize for green feed in the spring and
summer, can then be sown down to winter
grasses in the autumn.
It is also advisable to establish a paddock
of kikuyu grass. Although not a winter grass
it has a longer growing season than pas-
palum, and provides grazing longer into the
winter and also earlier in the spring. It is
not so susceptible to cold and frost as pas-
palum.
DANGERS OF SODIUM CHLORATE.
“Ivillem”: Sodium chlorate is a wonder-
fully efficient weed-killer, as the Maoriland-
ers have discovered. They have also dis-
covered that it has its little drawbacks.
While not poisonous to stock, it has the
property of making poisonous plants, such
as hemlock and foxglove, which farm animals
usually won’t look at, extremely palatable.
So if there’s anything of that sort in a
paddock that’s been sprayed, stock should
be kept out of it for a few days.
Another thing is that sod. ch. is highly
inflammable. A man in Taranaki soaked
his spray-drenched trousers in a bucket of
water overnight—they were only wet around
the ankles —and next morning scrubbed them
with a brush and hung them out to dry. A
few days later when he was wearing those
breeches he started to boil the billy for
lunch, and in a second he was ablaze from
braces’ buttons to insteps. The soaking had
distributed the chemical all over the garment.
Four weeks in hospital taught that chap
not to take liberties with sodium chlorate.
The correct thing to do is to wear oilskin
leggings or gum boots when weed-killing with
the chemical.
IS LIME WORTH WHILE?
“Bar Iv.” : There is a general impression
among farmers, and perhaps more particu-
larly among small gardeners, that the addi-
tion of lime to the soil will perform all
sorts of miracles. It is thought by many
that lime will kill sorrel, that it will reduce
clay beds to a fine agricultural condition,
that it will make sour ground sweet, bind
loose sandy soils, and also act as a fertiliser
to almost any crop. For a start, lime stimu-
lates the growth of sorrel, just as it benefits
the growth of clovers and lucerne. If applied
to a citrus orchard it will definitely retard
the fruit crop for some years. To break up
stiff soils, gypsum or calcium sulphate will
be found very much more effective than
lime. It will often be noticed that super-
phosphate will not give results in ironstone
country. The reason of this is that the phos-
phoric acid contained in the super, readily
combines with the iron, and also with
alumina when it is present in the soil,
forming an insoluble compound. In such
country lime can be mixed with the super,
before applying it to the soil, and this mix-
ture, tricalcic phosphate, commonly known
as basic super., will readily act on the
plant life. If the lime is added to the soil
before the super., however, its effect will be
lost.
Most of the early theories with regard to
the benefits of using lime emanated from
England, where the soil and weather con-
ditions are totally different from those in
Australia. Tests in N. S. Wales have not
shown advantages from the use of lime com-
mensurate with those obtained in Britain.
PREPARING FOR THE FRUIT
HARVEST.
“Notwen”: By making systematic pre-
parations now r , fruitgrowers on irrigation
areas can save themselves much labor and
worry when picking-time arrives. Racks
should be overhauled and wires tightened,
and particular attention should be paid to
woodwork near the ground; this is often
attacked by wdiite ants. If racks are roofed
it pays to fix hessian curtains along each side,
rolling them up to the level of the roof and
tying at intervals so that they will bo ready
to let down when needed.
Burning-off weeds under and round racks
is usually better than hoeing, which causes
unnecessary dust. If the main drying green
is very weedy it can be quickly cleaned up
with the vine-hoe; if it is exposed to much
dust from fallowed fields, erect a temporary
fence, over which can be thrown hessian
when fruit is on the ground. Hessians should
be sorted, the oldest being kept for ground-
sheets under racks.
Buckets usually need mending. If strength-
ening wire has broken round corners, they
can be easily repaired with a strip of gal-
vanised-iron fastened on by tank rivets. For
fastening hessians under racks, make a gen-
erous supply of staples from No. 8 fencing-
wire. Save all old newspapers and dripping.
They are useful for kindling a dip-fire
quicldy. A rough shelter made of four posts
and a strip of hessian does not take long to
erect, and greatly lessens discopafort caused
by working in tbe heat of the day.
After the last irrigation, fill in all furrows
on headlands: otherwise when buckets are
being distributed and collected some will be
thrown out each time the cart bumps over a
rut. Dip-solution can be used much
longer if a strainer is attached to draining-
iron at the end adjoining dip. The strainer
can be made by fixing fly-wire to a frame
of thin wood.
Black spot has been rather bad this year.
It will pay growers to sort out affected
bunches before spreading on racks, so that
a more even sample may be obtained.
GRAPE-FRUIT.
“Bendee”: I could not understand why
American grape-fruit brought 28s. a case in
Sydney while I could get only Bs.
to 12s. for the fruit I grew. One trip
to the market cleared up the mystery. The
agent split a bit of my fruit—it was larger
than the American sample—and then asked
me to try a bit of the American. My stuff
was thick in the skin, not very juicy, and
decidedly bitter; the imported sample was
nearly all juice, having just enough rind to
keep the juice in, and was far more palatable
in every way. “Every case of that American
brand will open up just like that one,” the
agent said, “and the buyer knows it. So
he knows exactly what his profit will be on
each case. Your lot’s all sizes, and no two
cases are alike.”
There is a growing demand for grape-
fruit in Australia (it is a great pick-me-up
after a heavy lodge night), but the public
wants something a lot better than most of
our growers are offering. It is a fruit which
requires the best attention, both as regards
cultivation and fertilisation. Systematic top-
dressing with super., bone-dust and organic
manure makes a decided imDrovement.
Marsh Seedless is about the only variety
grown in Australia. Some of the seeded
varieties might give better results, especi-
ally for table use. “Marsh” is undoubtedly
excellent for jam-making. For this purpose
the local fruit has it all over the imported
product. •
EARLY WHITE ONIONS.
“Super.”: The good prices obtained for
the early white onion crop have induced
many growers to go in for extra-early plant-
ings of white varieties. It has been proved
that red- and brown-skinned varieties planted
before April will run to seed and form faulty
bulbs ; white onions selected from brown types
will also run to seed. Of the white onions
proper, Early Barletta, Silver King and Vic-
torian White are the best types for the early
market. Early Hunter River White, an
excellent main-season variety, has been con-
demned because it has been planted too
early and has consequently seeded.
When preparing the seed-bed, choose a
piece of ground that has not previously
grown onions so as to avoid onion mildew.
White onions can safely be planted in most
onion-growing districts in Australia in the
latter,end of February and throughout March.
The seedlings should be ready to plant out in
the field about eight weeks after seeding, and
should be planted in rows eight inches apart,
with four inches between the plants. This
applies to all varieties. While the seedlings
are in the seed-bed the farmer should
methodically destroy all weeds in the field.
A dusting of super, in the seed-bed and lcwt.
of super, to the acre in the field will greatly
stimulate the root growth, and help towards
a sturdier crop.
Onions must be mature before pulling, and
should be allowed to dry in the sun before
bagging. It is pitiful to see the condition
of some of the trucks of onions arriving at
the Alexandria (Sydney) yards, through
picking the crop in an immature state and
through not drying sufficiently bqfore truck-
ing. All the labor of growing a good crop
can be lost through inattention to the essen-
tials of harvesting and marketing. Yet
another most important point is grading.
Cull out all extra-big onions and bag them
by themselves. The demand for big stuff is
poor, and its presence in a truck of other-
wise good samples will reduce the value of
the whole. Also big onions tend to bruise
the smaller bulbs, and bruising causes rot
and consequent heating. If each bag con-
tains an even size of onion it may mean
pounds a ton more to the grower.
GRADE YOUR PUMPKINS.
“Wilt”: There is room for lots of improve-
ment in the way the pumpkin crop in N. S.
Wales is put on the market. For a start,
there are far too many big sorts, sent in.
The demand is for medium .weight, not
exceeding 121 b., and for small sizes, say 81b.
The type demanded varies according to the
locality. In northern N. S. Wales the Tri-
angle (or Triamble as it is more commonly
called) is very popular, while near Sydney
tbe demand seems to be for the Queensland
Blue. Both types are medium-sized and ot
high quality if true to their strain. A hard
skin and deep yellow flesh is required.
Pumpkins that are immature may command
high prices in the early market when there
are very small supplies to hand, but it is
futile to send immature stuff to the Alexan-
dria (Sydney) market once the main crop
is moving in. An indication of immaturity
is the formation of sap drops on the flesh of
a freshly-cut pumpkin. One immature fruit
if it gets broken and goes bad may affect
the consignment. Grading should be for both
size and type, and if this is adhered to n
will probably mean a pound a ton more for
the crop. Varieties such as Crown, Button
and the degenerated Ironbark are unsuited
for the big markets, owing to their large size
and the lack of uniformity in the seed. Extra-
large sorts appearing in the crop indicate
impure seed and a throw-back to the old
cattle pumpkins. Another point worth noting
is that the large cattle pumpkins do not
yield a heavier crop of marketable fruit than
the Triamble or Queensland Blue, and there
is no . comparison in the price that will be
obtained.
BEES ON THE FARM.
“E.S.S.”: On farms where mixed crops
are grown a few hives of bees should be
kept. Besides the necessary service of bees
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


&
Bit,
SP£
c>
&
/>
&?T
<o G9v
%
»^s
£%?
<? ®N. "
V c °- <,2* *
Vv
J
C
Behind that smart
gold label is a
light- beer of-
throat-quenching
creaminess- • • •
Resch's Pilsener
in the LONG bottle/
Puf one on the
Ice to-night.


&
A
The finest patent
leather
Supple and light, this Abbey
evening shoe is amazingly
serviceable as well. It has a
welted 501 e.... an upper of
the glossiest and most durable
patent leather. It is shaped to
adapt itself without strain to
the height of your instep. That
assures the utmost ease in
wear. Full and half sizes avail-
able in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
50/-
Dancing Pumps
Low-heeled, with soles of
utmost pliancy. Upper made
entirely of patent leather. Full
and half sizes.
257-
order BY POST: State both width
and size. Ask, also, for the correct
Abbey Patent Leather Polish (6d.
per tin), or a handy new cleaning
outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 217.
CHANDLER
TARPAULINS
\
\
WA
n
m
CHANDLER’S TARPAULINS
AND RICK COVERS are
made in our own factory and
are guaranteed to give long
life and service.
Every Cover is sent out com-
plete with tie ropes spliced into
eyelets. They are double and
treble sewn where required.
We have specially priced two
sizes of our heavy brown
canvas line, viz:—
10 x 12 feet. 12 x 14 feet.
30/- 37/6
Our line of HEAVY ENGLISH
WHITE DUCK is also
extremely low in price: 10 x
12 ft., 44/-; 12x16 ft, 68/6;
14x18 ft, 90/6; 18 x 22 ft,
136/-; 20 x 24 ft, 163/6 each.
Samples of material are sent free
on request.
Particulars of the whole range of our
tarpaulins supplied on request.
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at BALLARAT, BENDIGO,
WARRNAMBOOL, HORSHAM and
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
MicK Simmons
for all
SHOOTING
Equipment
World-famous
SHOT
GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE’
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, i pistol
grip, walnut stock, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges, guaranteed for all smokeless
powder; weight about 7-£lb.,
Carriage Paid.
No. 4—HOLLIS' D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 3, but lighter build; weight
about 71b £ll/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 19—CERT D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G., steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, bar
locks, pistol grip, crossbolt, plain finish,
weight about 71b. . . £4/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 20 —CERT D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12 or 20G., 32in. steel barrels,
choke, Greener crossbolt (Anson and
Deeley action) £6/15/“
Carriage Paid.
Famous
Winchester
sdf
Rifles
Reduced
No. 15—WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1904
MODEL, for 22 short, long or
long-rifle rimfire cartridges;
2 1 in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action,
ladder rear-sight; length of
rifle overall, 372 in.; plain
front-sight; weight about 41b.
Usually 32/6
Mick Simmons’
Price
27/6
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 3/8.
No. i7_W INC HESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1902
MODEL, 22-cal., rimfire, 18m.
round steel barrel, bolt action,
peep or V sights, scroll trig-
ger-guard; rubber heelplate;
weight about 31b.
Usually 42/-
Mick Simmons’
Price.
3 51-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/2.
The World's Lowest-priced
Dependable Sporting Rifle!
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal., fitted
with plain V back-sight; for 22 short, long
or long-rifle cartridges 17/0
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/2.
At Your Service!
Mr. LIONEL L. BIBBY
sd
Firearms Expert and Aus-
tralia's finest Revolver and
Rifleshot (late of Win-
chester Repeating Arms Co.),
is now attached to Mich
Simmons' Shooting Depart-
ment. Mr. Bibby’s valued
advice on Guns, Rifles or any
matter pertaining to Shoot-
ing will be appreciated by
Sportsmen in general.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED
720 HAY MARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
in fertilising plants, an apiary furnishes
good food, and in suitable places is a paying
side-line. But some thought has to be given
to the business. I have known selectors who
tried to keep bees after ringbarking nearly
every tree in their paddocks, and without
growing anything beyond a few vegetables.
They wondered why their bees didn’t do
well, or wouldn’t stop, or died, when other
settlers always had honey.
On selections and farms there should never
be any need to shift bees, nor lack of food
for them. Lucerne and maize are rich sources
in the field, as clover, wild apple-trees, tea-
trees and most of the eucalypts are in the
paddocks. Some flowers, whether bush or
garden, produce more or better honey than
others, and various shades of amber are
produced by different kinds of flora. The
worst environment is where there are big
patches of prickly-pear. Much “prickly-pcar
honey” comes from the cactus areas of
Queensland, and is inferior to the common
garden and bush honey.
Choose trees that bear heavy crops of
honey-flowers, and that will be useful for
fuel and building material. These may be
interspersed with flowering fodder, plants
and shrubs. Tree-lined boundaries, too,
improve the holdings, at the same time pro-
viding future fencing material; and all these
would simplify the keeping of income-bring-
ing apiaries for tlie farmer.
In the old days on farms nearly any kind
of small packing-case was used for a hive,
but proper hives and frames can now be
got at a moderate price, and these make the
taking of the honey a comparatively easy
matter.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to eradicate Johnson grass? —l329.
It can be eradicated from small areas by
grubbing out and removing all roots. On
large areas spraying with sodium chlorate
should be effective. The crystals are dis-
solved in water, lib. to 1 gallon. When the
grass is in flower spray with this, making
sure that all foliage is thoroughly wet. The
above-ground growth will soon die, and if
so thick as to prove likely to interfere with
subsequent sprayings, it should be burned.
Upon sufficient second growth appearing to
carry the poison, a further application should
be given, and probably a third and even a
fourth treatment will be necessary for com-
plete eradication.
(1) Is barley grass regarded by Australian
farmers as a serious pest? (2) Does it take
control of pastures, ousting other grasses?
(3) Has the seed strong germination after
being buried for a considerable period? (4)
When land becomes badly infested does it
continue so year after year or does it become
“barley-grass sick”? (5) What is the best
method of dealing with it where the land is
ploughakle? (6) Would the same conditions
apply to Maoriland? (7) Would drastic
harrowing encourage the plant by opening
up the seed bed? —ls4o.
(1) In wheat and grazing districts it is
regarded as a useful pasturage before it
forms seed. When the seed heads are drying
off and also when mature the seeds cause
trouble to the eyes and mouths of stock. (2)
Yes, during the period of its maximum growth,
June to November. (3) It will germinate
after being buried for two to three years.
(4) It will persist for many years, and
there is no evidence that it makes the land
sick. (5) As the grass is an annual it
can gradually be worked out by the use of
ploughs or disc cultivators ; bury by plough-
ing under by shallow cultivation, or destroy
the young plants before they form seed.
(6) Yes. (7) Yes.
(1) Possibilities of making a living at pig-
farming in N. S. Wales? (2) Amount of capi-
tal required? (3) Could suitable land be
found near the sea? (4) Where can I get
detailed information? —1591.
(1) If a farm is selected on which
ample food can be produced, pig-farming
should pay even with the low prices now
prevailing. (2) If land is rented, £4OO to
£500; if purchased, about £2OOO. (3) Either
North or South Coast would be suitable.
(4) Make an appointment to interview the
senior piggery instructor (A. F. Gray),
Agriculture Department, Sydney.
(1) Can rice be grown in Australia (using
machinery ) cheaply enough to export to
China and Dutch East Indies, where it would
compete with native-grown rice? (2) Is
suitable land available in Australia? (3)
Present cost of production and average
yield? (4) Varieties suitable for export? —
1348.
(1) No, save when there is a local short-
age. (2) Any amount, but irrigation is
necessary. (3) Cost of production varies
from £lO to £l2 an acre. Average yield on
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area is
approximately 90 bushels per acre. (4)
Calora and Colusa.
(1) Cotton-growing prospects inN.S.W. or
Q’land? (2) What is the pnee of cotton in
Australia? (3) Docs the market fluctuate?
(4) At the present price what would be the
average net profit per acre? (5) What dis-
trict is most suitable? (6) Can cotton be
grown profitably On low-lying block soil
which has given good yields of maize at
Ballina (Richmond River, N.S.W.)? —1349.
(1) Good in ‘ Q’land ; very uncertain in
N. S. Wales. (2) Australian prices are
based on Liverpool quotations with adjust-
ments according to grade and length of
staple. (3) It lias fluctuated only slightly
during the last few years. (4) Can’t say.
There are so many influencing factors, such
as soil type, standard of farming, etc., that
it is impossible to generalise. (5) Cotton
is grown successfully in a large section of
s.-e. Q’land, where dairying, pig-raising
maize- and wheat-growing may be combined
with it. Q’land Agriculture Department
will supply information. (6) Very doubt-
ful, on account of the high degree of
humidity during the period of ripening of
crop.
(1) What chances arc there of making a
living at passion-fruit and berry-growing on
the Mornington Peninsula, Victoria? (2) Is
previous experience essential? (3) What
capital is required? (4) Where may detailed
information be obtained? —lso9.
(1) Very good, provided a suitable site and
locality are selected. Of course the personal
element plays a large part. (2) Desirable,
but not absolutely essential to success. (3)
Depends on size, price and condition of land,
whether this is cleared, fenced, or fit for
planting. (4) On the spot is best. A
talk with the district supervisor (Mr. R. T.
Wadeson) would also be of great assistance.
Bulletins 6 and 30 on the subject of passion-
fruit and berry culture can be obtained from
the Director of Agriculture, Melbourne; sd.
each, including postage.
Is the Granny Smith apple self-pollinat-
ing? If not, what varieties of apple bloom
at the same time?—— ls69.
In some districts it is self-sterile, and in
others self-fertile. It is always advisable,
however, when planting this variety to plant
also Jonathan or Delicious to act as cross-
pollinators.
(1) Is there a market for Angora rabbit
wool in Queensland? If so, price? (2) What
arc the possibilities of the industry? —l373.
(1) No; but A. G. Sainsbury, of Auckland
(ML.), has made arrangements with an Eng-
lish co. for the purchase of Angora wool
produced in Australia and M.L. Prices
fluctuate considerably, and no quotation is
available. (2) Success depends on the pro-
duction of sufficient high-grade wool to
warrant the establishment of markets in
Australia. Any but first-class stock will not
be profitable.
I have a horse with a growth at the side
of his mouth like swamp cancer. Is there
any preparation that would burn it out and
not injure the sound flesh or bone? —1192.
Place a piece of twine saturated in car-
bolic oil around the neck of the growth
and tighten it up so as to cut off the circula-
tion and the growth will fall off in a few
days. Do not use the bit until the resulting
wound is properly healed. After the growth
has fallen off, wash the wound with a satu-
rated solution of alum daily for a few days.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.D.McC.”: Tell “Orel” (B. 4/2/’3l) I
only suggested dipping twice as a preventive
in a very bad fly district. I prefer crutching
and jetting. Crutching is a necessary opera-
tion, fly or no fly, but jetting will only
protect the parts jetted, and in a bad season
the fly is not fussy where he strikes. The
second dipping will render the whole of
the sheep immune for a considerable period,
and I would sooner have a lower price for the
wool and a live sheep than have carcases all
over the run. As to dressings, the best I
know is spirits of tar and fish oil, a remedy
used in Scotland (where the fly is bad every
year) for upwards of a century.
“Notwen”: Don’t forget that Dobbin’s
hooves are more liable to break off in summer
than in winter. I keep handy a sharp hoof-
cutter and hammer, and every morning be-
fore harnessing up look at the horses’ feet,
cutting off any broken edges. If a horse has
very brittle hooves, apply oil occasionally
“Yarri”: If you want a quickly-made
feed-trough sink two forks, with wide prongs,
in the ground, put a piece of wood across
to fill the narrow part of the forks, nail
a bit of casing to that, and then nail pieces
at the sides and ends. The slant of the
prongs gives the right shape, and the trough
will last. Forks also make excellent racks,
with light round timber at the sides instead
of boards or battens.
“Dimon” : The inexperienced find it diffi-
cult to bend a piece of lead piping without
flattening or buckling it at the curve. Fill
the piping with sand, and you will bend
it easily and without making a dint in it.
“Wilt”: A metallic flavor developing in
cream is usually caused by a chemical action
of cream too low in butter-fat. The lactic
acid acts on the metal parts of the separator,
or cream cans, especially if the tinning is
wearing off. All metal parts of cream uten-
sils, separator parts as well, should be kept
properly tinrfed, and the butter-fat test
should be maintained.
“H.N.G.”: I agree with “Wandi” (B.
21/1/’3l) that grass is superior to paper
as a mulch. Besides keeping down wTeed-
growth and becoming a fertiliser as it rots, it
allows better aeration of the soil, which
paper is apt to sour. Sawdust should
never be applied fresh from the mill,
as most of our timbers contain a
high percentage of tannic acid, injuri-
ous to young plant life. It should be either
stacked or pitted and top-dressed with a
liberal application of air-slacked lime —say,
2ewt. to every ton of sawdust. This should
be allowed to stand for six months, or until
the lime bas worked through the heap; you
will then have a good mulch and a good
fertiliser. Using this mulch with pineapples
I have obtained excellent results.
“E.11.M.” : Too often have I seen banana-
growers rushing about in a gale in quest of
pieces of timber to support trees heavily
laden with fruit. Deposit a cartload or two
of strong props about the plantation. Hav-
ing them ready to hand will save a lot of
bunches from being destroyed.
“J. Point”: The ration of laying hens
should be varied somewhat through the
moult. First, the grain should be increased,
as this builds up the body weight after the
strain of heavy laying and fits them for
the coming season. Do not take away foods
containing protein altogether, as a certain
amount is required for the new feather
growth. Towards the end of the moult,
gradually get back to normal feed by reduc-
ing the grain and increasing the laying
mash.
Fiji is fairly convinced now that the im-
ported parasite from the Malay State has
well and truly dealt with the Leviiana-motb,
a tiny creature that five years ago had the
Fijian cocoanut plantations close on the edge
of extinction. The story of the beast is
interesting. It was not a destructive wasp
or fly like some creatures used for similar
purposes, but itself a parasite on a moth
closely related to Levimna. Only 315 of
the tiny creatures survived the voyage to
Fiji, and first of all they had to be rid of
tinier parasites which preyed on them and
rendered them useless. Three generations of
the imported parasite had to be bred before
a genuine lot of cleanskins were produced.
These were released in batches all over the
islands, and their story has already become
a classic in economic entomology.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-steward (Melbourne) wants work as cook-
houseman (all duties), anywhere, station preferred.
Refs.—l 774.
Young man, Sydney, wants work on dairy farm.
Can obtain capital later.—l77s.
Young man, Sydney, commercial and organising
exp., wants office work.—l77o.
Returned soldier, Sydney, G.P.S. education, jour-
nalistic and advertising exp., wants job on news-
paper, city or country.—l 769.
Girl (17), Sydney, just completed course book-
keeping and typing at business college, wants
clerical position.—l76s.
Wanted by lady with own machine, typing of
any description. MS. Is. 6d. per 1000 words.—l7ss.
Young man (27), Sydney, wants rural work or
job as gardener. Refs. —1756.
Handy man (56), Sydney, good at house repairs,
painting, laboring jobs, wants constant work in
city or suburbs.—l 764.
Shorthand writer and typist, Sydney, well edu-
cated, 10 years’ exp., wants position city or country
or work to do at home. —1668.
Housepainter and decorator, Sydney, wants job,
town, country or New Guinea, seven years as foreman
with last employer.—l6s9.
Qualified accountant (37), S.A., late secretary
gentlemen’s club, wants position as manager of first,
class hotel. Refs. —1652.
Master mariner, 45, foreign-going certificate,
exempt pilot Sydney and Newcastle, two years’
Australian army, , two years lieut. R.N.R., wants
job of any sort at sea. Refs. —1647.
Ex-Victorian public school boy (19) wishes to
gain experience on large station, preferably cattle,
in Q’land. —1691.
Prospector, Sydney, with about £lOO capital,
wants to join gold-hunting syndicate N.S.W. fields.
Can drive car.—l 679.
Linotype operator, Vic., mechanic, young, wants
job in city or country. Go anywhere.—l7o4.
To buy Dr. Chase’s Family Medical Book. —1713.
To exchange a year’s issue of the “Bookman” and
“John o’ London,” also a number of paper-covered
thrillers, bound volumes of novels and some classics,
for periodicals dealing with art or volumes of
modem verse.—l 646.
Words of verse “The Reticent Dead,” published
about three years ag0. —1751.
Information Sought.
(1) How much would it cost the holder of
an A pilot’s certificate to get a B certifi-
cate? (2) Any possibility of doing the
necessary hours of flying in the employ of a
commercial firm? (3) How many makes of
’plane does a pilot have to fly to get a B
certificate ?■ —1519.
(1) .Cost depends principally on the num-
ber of flying hours the pilot has to his credit.
In addition to other departmental require-
ments an applicant for a B license must have
done at least 80 hours’ solo flying and made
a cross-country flight of 200 miles. (2)
Unlikely if holding an A license only. As you
live at Longreach (Q.), see the management
of Q.A.N.T.A.S. about it. (3) One will
suffice.
I have a first and a second mortgage on my
home. I have paid the interest on the first
and have been paying interest and principal
on the second. lam now able to pay only
interest on both. Does the N.S.W. Mora-
torium Act imply that the instalments of
capital I agreed to pay on the second mort-
gage will be suspended until 1932? If that
is so, can the amount of instalments that
I should have paid be demanded from me in
a lump sum in 1932 or do I then resume
paying the same instalments as I had agreed
to pay? —ls93.
The Act continues in force until April 30,
1933. During its continuance a mortgagee
must not, without leave of the Court, call
np or demand payment from any mortgagor
of the whole “or any part” of the principal.
With regard to interest it is provided that
where it is in arrears for not less than 12
months the mortgagee may enter into posses-
sion, and within three months of his doing
so it is open to the mortgagor to apply to
the Court for an order requiring him, pre-
sumably on showing good cause, to vacate
the property. The Act does not free you
from the agreement to pay by instalments
but postpones the payment.
Is there a provision in the N.S.W. Mora-
torium Act to the effect that when a mort-
gagor is in arrears with rates on property
mortgaged the mortgagee can foreclose on
the property although interest is paid up?
—1656.
The Act provides that the mortgagee shall
not, without leave of the Court, commence
any action or proceeding, or continue one
commenced after Nov. 26, 1930, for breach
of any covenant, agreement or condition
other than, among others, one for the pay-
ment of “rates, taxes and other charges.”
(1) During what months of the year is
cotton-picking carried on in Q’land? (2)
In what districts in O'land is cotton grown?
(3) What chance is there of getting a job as
a cotton-picker there this year? —-1446.
(1) Commences in March and extends on
through to the end of July. (2) Along the
Gayndah-Upper Burnett line, Callide
Valley, Theodore Irrigation Project and the
Wowan district in Central Q’land. (3)
Very remote. A large number of people in
the State are looking for work and out-
siders won’t stand much of a chance.
How should tank water and tap water be
treated with iodine to obviate risk of goitre?
—1537.
The N.S.W. Health Department does not
advocate the administration of iodine per
medium of water. If iodine is employed as a
preventive of goitre its use should be super-
vised by a medical practitioner.
(1) How are saltwater fish such as mullet,
bream and salmon smoked? (2) Is there, a
market in Sydney for smoked fish? (3)
Name of a likely buyer? (4) Is there a
liquid preparation on the market for treating
fish without smoking them, and, if so, where
can I get it? —1438.
(1) Get pamphlet “Smoking and Salting
of N. S. Wales Fish,” obtainable from State
Fisheries, Sydney. (21 Yes. (3) W. King
and Son, Municipal Fish Market, Fresh
Food and Ice Co., Mcllraths, and Anthony
Hordern and Sons —all Sydney. (4) Liquid
pyroligneous acid is used instead of smoke
on some of the imported fish, but this method
is not recommended. The acid can be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Sydney.
(1) What is the probate duty on a Vic.
estate valued at betiocen £6OOO and £7000?
The property will pass solely to the ividow
and children. (Children are over 21 years
of age.) (2) Amount of Federal probate
duty? (3) Is there any difference if the
estate comes from personal exertion or from
rents and, dividends? —ls3s.
(1) 4|- per cent, plus supertaxes that
bring the tax up to 5.445 per cent. (2)
2 per cent., less one-third rebate. (3) No.
If I employ my 17 -year-old son in my shop
as an assistant, must I pay him the award
rate of wages? —l73l.
No; a son employed by his parent is not
an employee within the meaning of N.S.W.
Industrial Arbitration Act.
(1) Is lime used in the manufacture of
fibro-plasler sheets? (2) How are they
made? (3) A good book on the subject? —
462.
(1) No. (2) Principal materials are pure
plaster of Paris, a little size, and scrim or
other light bagging. Moulds are required
to the exact size of each sheet; if they are
to be ornamented, they may be cast or other-
wise made in sections and fixed together after-
wards to make complete wholes. The moulds
are first coated with three coats of shellac
dissolved in spirit, and when dry are oiled
or greased. The first application of plaster
is then made; it has the consistency of
cream, and is laid on with a brush. To
prevent it drying too quickly, a little size is
added to the mixture before brushing on.
When the first coat .is partially dry, the
second coat is poured on. Then the canvas
or scrim is laid over the sheet, pressed and
smoothed into position with the hands, and
brushed into good form. Plaster is then
again poured over. Several layers may be
made to produce high-class sheets, but the
average commercial article consists merely
of one layer of plaster, one of scrim and one
of plaster. (3) “The ABC of Plastering,”
by Telling (11s. 6d.).
How are lithographic inks made? Ingre-
dients and proportions in which they are
mixed ? —1336.
Roughly, they are made on the same prin-
ciple as printing inks, and consist of a pig-
ment and a varnish. The varnish is pre-
pared from old linseed oil, black or amber
resin, and yellow or white curd soap, the
paler ingredients naturally being used for
the making of the lighter colors. The oil
is carefully, heated until it strings or forms
a thread, the resin is stirred in, and then
the soap. This resulting varnish is then
ready for the color pigment, which is well
ground in until the mass is smooth and fine.
For black ink, Paris black is used; for the
more expensive red inks, carmine or cochineal;
cheap red inks, red lead; blue inks, indigo
or Prussian blue; yellow inks, lead chromate
or yellow ochre; and all other colors can
be made from mixtures of these primary
shades. For further information, consult
“Inks, Their Composition and Manufac-
ture,” by Mitchell and Hepworth, and “Ink
Manufacture,” by Lehner.
Differences between hard- and soft-paste
porcelain as regards ingredients and general
characteristics after manufacture? —1322.
The hard paste contains more alumina and
less silica than the soft. When baked, it is
sonorous on being struck; it has a milky
color and can sustain, without injury, sudden
alterations of high and low temperature. Its
essential constituent is pure white kaolin.
The soft variety has an unctuous, cream-
like enamel, and is soapy to the toudh; it
is lighter than the other kind, not so hard
(a knife will scratch it), and doesn’t re-
quire so great a heat for solidification.
(1) Cost of Parliamentary government
per head of population for each State and
Federal Parliament? (2) National income
of Australia. —l62l.
(1) Commonwealth, Is. lid.; N.S.W.. 2s.
4d.; Vic., Is. 6d.; Q’land, 2s. lid.; S.A.,
2s. lid.; W.A., ss. 6d.; Tas., 4s. 3d.; total,
1928-29, 4s. sd. (2) The national income of
Australia for 1929-30 was estimated at
£598,500,000.
(1) Out of Australia’s 6J million people,
how many have the right to vote? (2) How
many politicians make up the various gov-
erning bodies? (3) Total number of people
in Government services, including overseas
departments? (4) Estimated number of
adult population directly employed in pri-
mary production? (5) Estimated number of
adult population directly employed in
secondary industries ? —1447.
(1) At the October, 1929, Federal election
3,118,030 electors were enrolled. (2) 660 at
May 30,-1930. . - (3) The strength of the per-
manent Civil Service at a definite point of
time is not available, as the dates to which
annual records are made up vary in different
State departments. At June 30. 1929, there
were 226,548, which total excluded temporary
(except railways and Government tram-
ways) and part-time officers (registrars of
births and deaths, postal contractors, etc.) ;
naval, air and military employees, and cer-
tain others, such as those employed in State
trading undertakings. (4) At the 1921
census (latest figures available) 599,750. (5)
At the 1921 census 725,816 persons were
grouped under the “industrial” heading.
How to make string hammocks, and the
necessary tools? —1263.
Only way to learn is to take a lesson
from a fisherman or netmaker. Only tools
necessary are a wooden needle for carrying
the wound twine and a small piece of wood
which acts as a gauge for the size of the
mesh. The knack is very quickly picked up.
(1) Who invented the submarine, and
who were some of the pioneers in that
sphere? (2) When were submarines first
effectively used in warfare? —1323.
(1) Dates back at least 300 years. The
first practical submarines were made by
Robert Fulton, pioneer of steamboat con-
struction ; he built three in the early years
of the nineteenth century. Fulton, however,
based his designs on those of Bushnall, an
American, who in 1775 constructed a wooden
submarine which embodied many of the prin-
ciples that govern the building of modern
under-water craft. (2) Earliest record we
can trace is the sinking of the British cruiser
Pathfinder by the German submarine U2l
on September 5, 1914.
(1) Are Gustave Kerker and G. M. 8.
McLellan (Hugh Morton), composer and
author of “The Belle of New York,” still
alive? (2) Did they compose or write any-
thing else? (3) Are the characters in “The
Belle” caricatures of Americans famous in
their day? (4) Date of the opera’s first
production in Sydney? —l3l2.
(1) Both dead. (2) Kerker. composed
about 20 operas, but “The Belle” is the only
one known outside U.S.A. McLellan was
librettist to many composers, including Ivan
Caryll. He also wrote the play “Leah
Kleschna.” (3) Yes. CoraAngeliquewas Lilian
Russell, Sniff kins was De Wolf Hopper, Fifi
Fricot was Anna Held. The Bronsons were
supposed to be the Rockefellers, father and
son, Blinky Bill was Kid McCoy, the then
pugilistic idol, and Violet Gray was General
Booth’s daughter. (4) May 6, 1899.
A club has more than one section, each
of which has its own chairman and secretary.
In the absence of anything in the consti-
tution or rules on the subject, what voting
power has the chairman at an, ordinary or ex-
traordinary meeting of members? TJnelected,
can the chair-man or secretary sit on any
committee of the section, and, if so what
voting power has lie? —1529.
The chairman does not vote, except on
divisions when the numbers happen to be
equal, when he gives the casting vote. He
cannot sit on a committee without being
elected to do so; the same rule applies to
the secretary.
What is the best way to put down a brick
track for a motor-car entrance? —1594.
Mark out the size of the track, then dig
out the soil to a depth of a brick and a
half (about 4|in.). Ram the earth hard
with a piece of 3 x 3 hardwood or a post-
hole iron, then put in enough sand to bring
the bricks to the correct height. Spread A
evenly and wafer heavily. When the sand
has settled and dried, smooth it over with
a board and put down the bricks, going over
each carefully with a small hammer. Should
any of the bricks sink with the weight of
the car, lift them and pack in a little sand
to the correct height. Use no mortar.
(1) My aster plants are showing green
flowers this season. What is the cause and
the remedy? (2) Others, when ready to
flower, wilt away and die. How can I save
the healthy plants?— l6o3.
(1) Cause of green flowers is over-feeding
and nitrogenous manure. When the soil is
being prepared for asters it should be en-
riched lightly with old rotted manure, and
then allowed to settle. Pull up the plants
and burn them so that the seed of the better
flowers is not spoiled by pollinisation. (2)
The plants which die are affected with plant-
lice, which cause rot at the contact of the
soil and the plant. Give the healthy plants
a good mulch of lime and wood ashes, and
water lightly for a while. Weak potions of
nitrate of soda (one tablespoon to one gallon
of water) will help the flowers at this stage.
(1) Population of Canada? (2) Form of
government, number of Senators and Repre-
sentatives and salaries? (3) Provincial Par-
liaments, number of members and salaries?
(4) Salary of Governor-General? (5) Total
cost of government?- —1527.
(1) Estimated 1929, 9,786,800. (2) A
self-governing Dominion. The Governor-
General, who may nominate up to 104, has
appointed 96 Senators (life). The people
elect 245 members to the House of Commons.
Salaries: Senators and members, 4000dol.
per session, with deductions for non-attend-
ance ; the P.M., an extra 15,000d01. p.a.;
Ministers and Opposition-leader, 10,000dol.
p.a.; Speaker of each House. 6000dol. p.a.
(3) Quebec (two Houses), 24 M’s.L.C. (life),
85 M’s.L.A. Salaries, 2500d01. per session.
Each of the other provinces has one House:
Alberta, 60 M’s.L.A.; B. Columbia, 48;
Manitoba, 55; New Brunswick, 4S; Nova
Scotia, 38; Ontario, 112; P. E. Is.. 30;
Saskatchewan, 63. Salaries not available.
A Lieutenant-Governor presides, and assem-
blies are elected for five years, excepting
those of Ontario and P. E. Is., which are
elected for four years. (4) £lO,OOO p.a.
(5) Not available.
(1) Can judgments of the High Court and
Supreme Court be obtained and at what cost?
(2) Can separate copies of English judg-
ments be purchased in Australia? (3) Where
can I purchase copies of Federal or Stale
4cts and at what cost? —1395.
(1) Yes. High Court judgments are pub-
lished in the Commonwealth law reports and
of the Supreme Court in the reports of the
particular State to which they refer. These
reports are published in separate parts and
bound periodically into volumes. In N.S.W.
the cost of a part would be Is. at the Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Bent-street, Sydney.
The Commonwealth reports are embodied in
larger parts, and the most convenient way
of procuring a part would be through the
Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney, the
cost being 15s. (2) No. English reports are
supplied only to subscribers, the subscription
fee being seven guineas p.a. Surplus parts
are not kept in stock in' Australia. (3) From
the Government Printers of the Common-
wealth and the various States. Price depends
on length.
Brief Answers.
XYZ: “For sales” are barred from
“Wants”... .W.M.M.: (1) No. The business is
overcrowded and trade is slack. (2) Yes, but
prices are low, competition being very keen. (3)
No. (4) £lOO would be sufficient, but you’d be
likely to lose it G. 8.: Just critics’ jargon.
“Appreciation” may be used in many senses. “Atmo-
sphere” generally relates to the creation of an
appropriate setting for what the poet has to say;
thus in Grey’s “Elegy” the poet preludes his philo-
sophical observations on rustic life with a graphic
picture of the quietude of eventide in an English
village... .G.T.C.: (1) George Wills and Co., 156
St. George’s-terrace, Perth, are the W.A. agents
for the Parker producer-gas plant. (2) Consult
the agents. (3) Charcoal for use in a producer-gas
plant should be prepared by carbonising wood in
a closed brick or metal container. Retorts for
quantity production are procurable in Australia, but
it is not known that any small retorts suitable
for farm use have yet been placed upon this market.
. ... J.J.0.5.: (1) Know of no chemical which would
answer the purpose. (2) Can’t be learned from
textbooks. Yau’H have to get an experienced man
to teach you F.R.8.: Lon Chaney died in Lbs
Angeles, U.S.A., on August 26, 1930, soon after
he had completed the talkie version of “The Unholy
Three” J.A.F.: Write N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture
for pamphlet on “Tobacco Growing”... .D.S.: H. S.
Harrison has published the following novels:
“Queed,” “V. Y.’s Eyes” and “Andrew Bride, of
Paris” ; Jack Kahane has written “Laugh and Grow
Rich,” “Love’s Wild Geese,” “The Gay Intrigue,”
“The Vain Serenade” and “The Pure in Heart”
A.A.H.: (1) Any art-dealer would handle the draw-
ings on a commission basis. (2) There is a fair
demand for the book and a sale might be arranged
through a second-hand bookseller... .N. 8.: Write
N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet
“White Ants” D.C.C.H.: Write Secretary, Air
Board, Defence Dept., Melbourne... .A.R.: Yes. You
can lead at any time, and name any suit you
elect it to represent V. (Broken Hill): (1) It
was published in The Bulletin of November 21,
1928. (2) Suggest you write to the editor of the
paper in which the verse appeared; M.U.1.0.0.F.
Building, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will find him.
.... F.J.W.: Write Director, Civil Aviation, Dept,
of Defence, Melbourne.. . .J.E.H.: At 2 to 1 he
would have to discontinue after the 12th bet; at
3 to 1 after the 19th... .T.L.C.: Cannot enter
into theological controversies.—L.C.F.C.: A living
cannot be made at private veterinary practice in
Fiji. There are at present no vacancies for veter-
inarians in the Fiji Agriculture Department....
L.C.8.: Examination papers are sold at the N.S.W.
Govt. Printing Office, Sydney, at about 6d. each.
. ...R.F.: Your best course is to lodge a proposal
for assurance with a life office and await its decision.
. ...N.E.D.: (1) Write Dept, of Local Government,
Bligh-street, Sydney. (2) Answer advertisements
inserted when vacancies occur... .C.S.: Method too
long to describe in the Service page. You should
be able to get an inexpensive book on the subject
from Sir Robert Bear’s Bookshop, 17 Royal Arcade,
Sydney H.H.: The club has no power to pro-
hibit, but permission should be sought from the
trustees. .. .H.C.H.: It would be unwise to risk it.
. ...D.A.P.: A person in receipt of an old-age
pension cannot also receive an invalid pension, and
vice versa. ... T.M.: Free board and lodgings with-
out wages or other income will not affect pension
rate C.J.R.: (1) In England, test, county, M.G.O.
and University fixtures. • In Australia, test, Sheffield
Shield, inter-State first-eleven matches, games
against visiting teams, trial matches and benefit
games between inter-State teams. (2) (a) 7830 ;
(b) 14 ; (c) 9; (d) I—and one score of 452 n.o.
. ...H.W.8.: (1) Leach’s “Birds of Australia” and
Campbell’s “Nests and Eggs of Australian Birds.”
(2) Lucas and Le Souef’s “Animals of Australia”
and Kinghorn’s “Snakes of Australia.” (3) Stead’s
“Fishes of Australia” and Roughley’s “Fishes of
Australia.” (4) Swain’s “Timbers and Forest Pro-
ducts of Queensland” and Francis’s “Australian
Rain Forest Trees.” (5) Larsons’ “Single Finger-
print System”.... R.E.C.: (1) “Aust. and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.), Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. (2) Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, and Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne....
E.H.: (1) No. (2) Not yet determined. (3)
Watch the daily press for report of proposed com-
mencement, then immediately communicate with
Commonwealth Railways, Melbourne... .F.E.F.: The
balance of the proceeds of the sale of the wool
being, apparently, subject to the lien, cannot be
disposed of by you without the consent of the
lienee J.W.8.: Sir Hugo Cunliffe Owen’s address
is 56 Upper Brook-street, London, W. 1... .W.P.M.:
From Registrar-General, Melbourne. Fee for cer-
tified copy, 55.; for search, 2s. 6d.... .R.C.A.: There
are 615 members of the House of Commons; 15
are women J. J.M.M.: Records not available in
Sydney. Write to “The Norseman,” Indianapolis,
Ind., U.S.A 8.5.: (1) The field is crowded. It
is doubtful whether you would get a footing even
after such a course, (2) Provided it is a reputable
institution such an interview might be helpful....
J.H.: Rail fares from Sydney to Kalgoorlie (W.A.) :
First, £l2 145.; second, £8 9s. 6d. Steamer fares,
Sydney to Perth: First, £l3 to £l6 10s.; second,
£11; third, £8 R.11.D.: No direct case on
the point, but probably the immunity given by
the Moratorium Act to the husband would be ex-
tended to the wife F.L.: The heating value of
1000 cubic feet of gas supplied by the Australian
Gas Light Co., Sydney, is 555,000 British thermal
units, equivalent to 139,869 calories... .E.F.: C. C.
Boyd’s “Grammar for Grown-Ups” (3s. 6d.), H.
Bett’s “How to Write Good English” (3s. 6d.), and
J. C. Nesfield’s “Junior Course of English Com-
position” (secondhand, 2s. 6d.) —Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .J.W.M.K.: Philip Snowden is not an
Australian J.W.W.: Apply to the various shipping
offices A.M.E.: No. The property remains her
separate estate W.R.: Apply to the Secretary,
Royal Agricultural Society, Macquarie-place, Sydney.
S.S.B.: “Padre” is a title used in Italy, Spain
and Spanish America in addressing or speaking of
priests, and in India for all clergymen... .D.L.S.:
From a stamp-dealer or by advertising N.C.: It
is manufactured by M. S. Regal, Leichhardt, Sydney,
and is obtainable from Queensland Pastoral Supplies,
Brisbane, or Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney;
price 75s M.H.W.: (1) About the same. (2)
About 600. (3) 14 days direct route. (4) No;
a High Court. (5) Not particularly ; always pre-
valent. (6) No available statistics L.C.: See
“Soap,” by Simmons; “Art of Soap-making,” by
Watt; “Manual of Toilet Soap-making,” by Deite
and “Perfumes, Cosmetics and Soap,” by Croucher
—all available at N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney.
M.W.Q.: “Year Book,” 3 Martin-place, Sydney.
Price, ss. 9d. posted; the other from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney. Price, 9s T.R.A.: (1) Can’t
say without seeing the device whether it is a proper
subject for patent or design registration or either.
(2) and (3) Write to Patent Office, Melbourne, for
forms, or submit model or sketch and full descrip-
tion to a patent attorney, who will advise you
regarding procedure and cost. (4) Whiteloid Pro-
ducts, Primrose-avenue, Rosebery, N.S.W
W.T.11.: From the Invalid and Old Age Pc^si~n»
Department, Clialmers-street, Sydney (Many
others mailed.)


AUTUMN AT ITS BEST...
MARCH, April and May are three of the most delightful months of the
year for holiday-making in Victoria. For autumn, south of the
Murray, is autumn at its best.
The tourist can choose from:
MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK: The most magnificent mountain
scenery in Australia, with a standard of comfort at The Chalet
unsurpassed by any other holiday-house anywhere.
THE VICTORIAN RIVIERA: Combined seaside-and-bush scenery at
Lome, Barwon Heads, Apollo Bay or Ocean Grove.
THE GIPPSLAND LAKES: Motor-boating and fishing in the lovely lake
country; or
THE MARYSVILLE DISTRICT: Invigorating walks through sweet-
scented fern gullies which experienced travellers have described as
"unexcelled by anything of the kind in the world.”
Travel experts at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU (Martin Place,
Sydney, or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne) will help the tourist to choose.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis: The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a practice.
As yet he does not understand the
people very tvell, and his difficulties
are increased by the local matron, a
good woman, but incompetent, and by
the fretfulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. She bitterly resents his
having lost, in gold-mine speculation,
the money that might have taken them
back to Italy, but when he offers to
send her back and support her there
she will not hear of it. Dr. Gherardi
takes consolation from the thought
that he will not stay in Banton very
long, and his wife tries to accustom
herself to the situation by meeting the
local social leaders. She creates a
sensation, among them on her first visit
—a tennis-and-tea meeting—by admit-
ting that she doesn’t keep any ser-
vants. Dr. Gherardi calls upon the
Mayor, John Cartwright, and announces
his intention of requesting the hos-
pital committee and the town coun-
cil to make sweeping alterations at
the hospital, where conditions have
become intolerable. lie is also in-
censed at a gushingly complimentary
paragraph that has appeared in the
Banton “Weekly Champion” and calls
to have it out with the editor, llar-
body.
Chapter IV ( Continued ).
LEO went a few doors up the street to
the office of the Banton “Weekly
Champion.” The low, wooden room
was quiet. The machines were idle. A dog
curled in a heap of old proofs was restlessly
asleep. Leo, peering about, could see no-
body. But at length a muttered ejaculation
came from the office, which was a parti-
tioned-off corner, and following the ejacula-
tion William Harbody, editor, reporter and
printer, emerged. At sight of Leo his yawn
changed to a sheepish smile.
“Morning, Doctor.” He was glad to ex-
change his drowsy conning of the Gun-
dibbie “Herald” for the more lively attrac-
tion of conversation. His firm expectation
of thanks for the laudatory paragraph made
him rather embarrassed. Well, it had cost
him nothing, and he liked to be able to do
a chap a good turn.
“This reference to the hospital and my-
self,” began Leo, waving the paper which
he had brought with him from Cartwright’s
office.
Harbody coughed deprecatingly. Prob-
ably the doctor wanted a few extra copies.
Mrs. Rales had ordered six.
“I do not like that you print these things
of me,” said Leo decidedly. “That opera-
tion was very simple. Your statement will
mislead people. I wish it if you will be so
good that you publish in next issue that I
have said this. The operation was neither
remarkable nor very clever, as you have so
kindly said. But I must thank you for your
good intention. You are very kind.”
He felt relieved as he made his way out
of the office. He had got rid temporarily
of Muri’s scornful eyes.
But William Harbody stared after him
for quite a minute. Then yawned and re-
tired to his desk. For a time his pen
scratched.
He scanned the finished production.
“In reference to a statement appearing in
the last issue of this paper re the recent
operation performed on Mrs. Ned Rales,
Doctor Gherardi wishes us to state, on his
behalf, that we were laboring under a mis-
apprehension. The operation, the doctor
says, was not ‘remarkable or very clever.’ ”
He drew another sheet of paper towards
him and with faintly malicious swiftness
covered it with his sprawling writing.
“We regret to hear of the death of the
infant child of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Meekins.
For some weeks the happy home of Meekin
was overcast by the gloom of the little
one’s illness, which deepened when she
passed away last Friday. Rev. Wilton offici-
ated at the graveside. Deceased was treated
by Doctor Gherardi. We understand that
Doctor Jones, of Gundibbie, was called in
consultation shortly before the infant passed
away. But the course of the illness was
then far advanced and could not be checked
by the skill and experience of this respected
medico. Our heartiest sympathy is extended
to the bereaved family.”
“If he likes that better, he can have it,”
said William Harbody to no one in particu-
lar.
(5)
The hospital committee was sitting in the
boardroom, which was also the operating
theatre and the casualty department.
The secretary was reading monotonously,
disapprovingly, “ an up-to-date-steriliser
and a copper for sterilising water, twelve
new bedsteads, twelve hair mattresses,
twenty-four pairs of linen sheets, twenty-
four pairs of blankets and all bed requis-
ites. Also an efficient heating apparatus
for the operating-room and an ether-inhaler.
It is essential that the two private rooms
be provided with new furniture. I would
suggest that the odds and ends now used
for furniture in these rooms be burned.
Failing this the committee might dispose as
it thinks fit. Clean, substantial ceilings must
replace in the wards the present faulty
structures. The need for an operating
theatre is growing pressing, the existing
room where operations are performed having
the nature of a passage-way and unfit
generally for the purpose to which it is put.
I would suggest”
“You don’t say!” said Reb Mullins.
“Order, order!” said the chairman.
“Order! Order; I don’t see.... frankly I
don’t see. Of course I understand how
necessary these things are, but I don’t see
our way to supplying them just now. Not
all at once. Yes, Mr. Maloney?”
Mr. Maloney, of the finance committee,
rose truculently. “I suggest that the doctor
be written to and thanked for his valuable
suggestions.”
“I second that.” Lester Pratt jumped to
his feet, then sank into the obscurity from
which he emerged to second all motions.
The president was rather grateful. The
thing seemed to have been whirled away
from him.
“With a credit balance of ten pounds ten
and fourpence, I don’t see that we can do
very much at present.”
And within a week Leo had his reply.
Thankful, tactful. The committee did not
see .their way just now. En.it in time ■
(6)
From the report of the monthly meeting
of the Banton Municipal Council, as pub-
lished in the “Weekly Champion”:
“A discussion arose as to the lack of
facilities for the removal of garbage, fol-
lowing on the reading of a letter on the
subject from Doctor Gherardi. The Mayor
said that he had been trying to induce the
sanitary contractor to start a rubbish cart.
But he was doubtful if the public would
consent to a small levy as proposed by the
doctor. The hiring of a man with a cart
for the purpose of removing garbage woidd
mean expense. Proposed that the matter
should be left for the new Council to deal
with.”
(7)
The mild frost was sufficient to blight
the young shoot of Leo’s public spirit. He
believed that the roots, too, had perished,
and he tried to tell himself that he didn’t
care. Let the town rot and die if it so
wished. He would be gone in two years.
If his successor liked to fight for clean-
liness and efficiency, he could. A whole
lifetime devoted to the struggle would
perhaps achieve some results. Perhaps.
The newly-formed Parents and Citizens’
Association had asked him to give a lecture
on First Aid to the school children. He
would have cancelled the arrangement now
if he could. In the fine glow of altruism
he had accepted the proposal. It fitted
in with his plans for the town. He might,
he had thought, be able to organise some
classes among the children which would be
of practical value; teach them a little ele-
mentary physiology and anatomy, reveal
to them the stupendous romance of the
body machine and fire them with an enthu-
siasm for keeping that mechanism in order.
He had made a few potes for a series of
lectures. He would make a fairy tale of
it, with similes easily grasped by the young
mind, and build for them, God-like, the
human body, declaim the epic of the circu-
lation of the blood, reveal the beautiful
intention of flesh. If it made them wash
and eat properly, regard their bowels im-
portantly, something would have been
achieved. The standard lectures on First
Aid, with their methods of affixing im-
promptu splints, bandaging, life saving and
artificial respiration, he dismissed with
ridicule.
Having given his word to the association
he could not now cancel the lecture, and
as he set off about three o’clock to climb
the hill to the school he was animated by
a slight hope that he might succeed with
the children with an ease denied his efforts
on behalf of their parents. After all, it was
the children who were important.
It was a day of unseasonable heat. The
children, glad to be released from lessons,
assembled for the lecture as for an unusual
game. Some of them had already an
acquaintance with the strange ritual called
First Aid, and possessed lively memories.
They had prepared at the teacher’s bidding
a bundle of deal boards to be used as
splints and rolls of home-made bandages.
Round-eyed, expectant, the class waited for
the performance to begin.
And the performance never began. Anti-
cipation kept them quiet during the first
few minutes of the sculpturing of the bone
structure. They were still as mice, con-
cerned with the imminence of being saved
from drowning and being sat upon, or
sitting upon, of having an arm encased in
boards, cynosure of the class, of actually
experiencing the thrills detailed by Micky
Crow, who had once boasted legitimate
splints. In ten minutes the children were
bored. Twenty minutes passed. The splints
were untouched, the bandages untouched.
And then, by accidental brushing of his
hand, Leo knocked the instruments of First
Aid, the props of the performance, from
the table.
“Don’t trouble,” he said quickly to the
lad who started from his seat; “we will not
need these. Stay where you are, boy.”
That was the end.
The headmaster’s thanks w r ere temperate;
“....all been very interested.... the kind-
ness of the doctor, who is such a busy man
....sure we all thank him very much....
stand!” And the children with the first
heartiness they had shown, dutifully
chorused “Thank you, Doctor Gherardi,”
in accordance with rehearsal. Repressed
laughter bubbled gleefully.
(8)
Mullins was an intimate of Abel Gregory,
the schoolmaster. Waiting that night for
the two laggard members of their card
quartette, they touched without elaboration
a dozen topics.
“First-aid lecture any good? Interest
the kids at all?”
“So-so. The lecture was all right, I
suppose. But I don’t think it was suitable.
In fact, I’m sure it wasn’t.”
“I know. You needn’t tell me. The
trouble with that chap is that he doesn’t
come down to earth enough. I suppose he
wanted a lot of paraphernalia to do any-
thing, eh?”
“No-o. To tell you the truth, it wasn’t
a lecture on First Aid at all. He didn’t
seem to realise he was dealing with children.
I’d let them prepare the splints and the
bandages and so on. But he turns up
with an intricate lecture on anatomy, I
suppose it was—utterly incomprehensible
to the class.”
“Isn’t that like him!” Mullins tapped
his pipe on the fender. “That’s him to a
T. If you knew what we had to put up
with, the committee! He gives us hell
about once a week because we haven’t got
the place fitted up like the London Hospi-
tal. What we want here is a little less
medical science and a heap more common-
sense. He can’t get the idea into his nut
that he’s in a small bush town. The receipts
from the hospital wouldn’t keep it in
chicken feed, and he expects us to lash out
and get him all the equipment ever heard
of. Mind you, I’m not saying he isn’t a
good doctor. He is. He’s probably the
best we’ve ever had in Banton. But that
doesn’t say he’s the best we’ve had for
Banton. He doesn’t know the word make-
shift. Now, if you gave Doc. McGinnis
a hacksaw and a kitchen table he’d make
some sort of a job of an operation.”
“He would. That was the trouble with
him. I think we had the other extreme in
McGinnis.”
“May be. But he faced facts. He took
what he could get and didn’t do so bad
with it. That’s the sort of chap we want
here. This is a raw country still. And
anyone whose going to work here must
learn to make-shift. I’ll bet you he’d
scrap this school building to-morrow and
everything in it if he could.”
The vision of decayed weatherboard walls,
broken verandah planks, rickety desks and
forms, the remembered absence of a shel-
tered playground for wet weather called
forth a sigh from the schoolmaster.
“That policy of making things do can be
carried too far, all the same. If every-
one were content to make the best of the
tools he’s got, he wouldn’t get any new
tools. And there wouldn’t be any progress.”
“You bet there would. When the town
could stand it.”
t 9)
Leo paid another visit to John Cart-
wright and unloosed his wrath. John
heard him out in smiling silence.
“What did I tell you? I said not to
rush us. If you’d asked for one thing at
a time, you might have got it. A list
like that was as good as telling the com-
mittee that what they thought was a hospi-
tal was a stinking barn of a place! You’ve
lowered their opinion of themselves. And
if you do that you generally incite antag-
onism.”
“They can go to the devil!” Leo’s face
was suffused with angry blood. “Have I
then to deal with the weak stomachs of
children that I must coat with sugar the
pills?”
“Another thing,” John said. “You went
straight from here and pitched into Har-
body about that' paragraph the other day,
didn’t you? What did you do that for?”
Leo shrugged his shoulders. What use
to tell him? He probably wouldn’t under-
stand.
“Harbody’s peeved as a snake.” John
chuckled. “You know, Harbody believes in
the ‘Champion’ just as much as the editor
of the London ‘Times’ believes in the
‘Times.’ More, probably. He thinks that
everything that goes in his sheet is a
weighty pronouncement and should be
treated as such. Now you’ve made him
feel a fool.”
But Leo had had enough and stormed
out of the office.
“Hey,” Cartwright called, as the foot-
steps were receding. “The wife’s expect-
ing you and Mrs. Gherardi down to cards
to-night.”
Leo returned to the doorway, still glower-
ing. “Yes, I remember, thank you very
much. But my wife, she does not play
cards.”
“That doesn’t matter. There’ll be several
other ladies there who won’t be playing.
Mona said to tell you to be sure to bring
her.” He was rooting among his papers
for a box of matches. As a matter of fact,
Mona, kind-hearted woman though she was,
had sighed as she said, that morning
“And, of course, Mrs. Gherardi. That
makes eleven. Though goodness knows
what we’re to. do with the poor soul.”


Entertainment and Information
will be found in good measure
IN NEXT WEEK’S ISSUE OF
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
TWO SERIALS:
Romance and Adventure, by Rosemary Rees.
Intrigue and Mystery, by Mildred Barbour.
SHORT STORY:
Love in New Guinea, by G. M. Turnbull.
FREE SERVICE:
Pattern of a Useful Blouse with Jabpt Front.
SPECIAL ARTICLES:
The Love Story of Two Novelists.
Homecraft: Leatherwork.
A Wife s Right to Her Savings.
The Treatment of Ulcers.
Mrs. Pepys on the Stage.
Winter in the Garden.
The Hen as a “Factory.”
SURE TO BUY A MARCH 3 “MIRROR”!
_ ON SALE ON SATURDAY NEXT.
NEEDLECRAFT:
A Picot Doyley for the Beginner.
Knitting a Girl’s Cardigan.
Woven Border in Embroidery.
A Jolly Cushion in Cross-stitch.
HEALTH AND MOTHER-LORE:
Dangers of the Dummy.
Abuse and Use of Make-up.
IN THE KITCHEN:
Fish Dishes for Lent.
Figs Used in Chutneys.
Mulberry and Grape Jam.
‘‘What’s the matter with her? Nice little
thing, I think.”
“Oh you! It’s all well and good for
you! You just bark, ‘Well, Mrs. Gherardi,
how’s the world treating you?’ and pass
on. But it’s we women who have to sit
and try and make conversation. Not that
I dislike the poor little thing.”
“No, you seem quite in love with her,”
John said drily.
“Oh there you go! It isn’t a case of being
in love with her or not being in love with
her. It’s simply that one can’t get to know
the woman—any more than you could a
wooden post. Anyhow,” she added, “I
needn’t get myself all worried, because she
probably won’t come. And I think she’s
very sensible, until she learns the language
a bit better and is prepared to take an
interest in the social life of the town.”
“Well, you can just make up your mind
that she is coming!” said John with sud-
den determination. Mona stared at him
in injured surprise. “And it’s up to you
women to try to make things a bit easy
for that poor girl. I like Leo Gherardi and
I’m not going to have his wife left out of
things simply because you’re too darned
parochial to take an interest in anything
but your fooling little afternoon teas, and
whether Julia Simpson’s cook is any good
and what pattern Elsie uses for her knickers.
It’s the stuff you women talk that she
doesn’t understand. Now put yourself out
a bit to-night and try to interest her.”
“John, what on earth’s the matter with
you!”
Mona was a kind woman. She had almost
made a profession of being kind—and that
was unfair. There wasn’t a woman more
suited to be the wife of a man in his
position.
“John, to hear you,” she continued,
“you’d think we’d organised a sort of official
ostracism. I’m sure everyone does her best
to be nice to poor Mrs. Gherardi. It’s
0n1y....0h, you couldn’t understand! Men
never do. The truth is she doesn’t fit, she
doesn’t fit anywhere. And she’s got to
make herself fit. We can’t do it for her.”
And it would be Mona, if anyone, who
would help this Gherardi woman to find
her way through the tricky little jungle
of Banton society, John thought, as he sat,
solitary and reflective, in his office after
Leo’s departure. Poor beggars! Life must
be difficult for them. Though the man was
all right. He’d shake down in time. He
was too vital to decay because the soil
didn’t suit him. But with the woman it
was different.
He drew some papers towards him and
forgot the problem of Teresa in the absorp-
tion of considering forty-one chains! of
netting fence and twelve chains of wire
fence which one Joseph Henry Smedly
wished to present for appraisement as
Crown improvements to the Land Board.
Chapter V.
. . (D
Teresa was singing. Lovely lilting notes
showered the room, blended with the fleck-
ing sunbeams, until the place seemed light
as air and filled with melody.
She was happy these days. Smarting
under a sense of failure, Leo had run from
the enemy to the haven of her admiration,
and the anaesthesia of recreating old dreams.
He spent hours writing letters to his remem-
bered friends and associates, new-invested
with preciousness. He talked so often of
the return that it seemed a thing within
momentary accomplishment. And, most
comforting, he inveighed constantly against
the stodginess and stupidity of the people
of Banton.
She did not know the cause of this
volte face, and took it gratefully as a
natural and inevitable revolt. Her waning
belief in his splendor, in his greatness was
resuscitated. This was her man Leo, im-
patient of the midget things of life, the
low horizons, resentful of this narrow rut
which had seemed to content him. She
had been a fool. With the certainty of
release to comfort her, she could wait with
serenity.
He was called to Amos Sherry’s wife. A
neighbor, hatless and aproned, had run
breathlessly to the house and Leo had gone
with her immediately.
“I just called in to borrow a bit of
butter, Doctor, and she was there lying in
a pool of blood! It frightened the wits
out of me! I didn’t bother to get her
husband; just ran straight up here for you.
Amos is a hard man. I reckon he didn’t
notice how sick Fanny’s been. We all
helped her as much as we could, and once
I spoke up and told him he ought to be
ashamed of himself. But he told me to
mind my own business.”
Leo said nothing. The woman had almost
to run to keep up with his long stride.
“But when you see a woman lying in a
pool of blood, it’s up to you to do some-
thing,” she panted. “Women have got to
stick to one another, I always sa!y. I don’t
care about Amos Sherry. He can say what
he likes. I don’t mind telling him it was
me went and got y0u”....
But Fanny’s pale spirit was borne out of
existence on the river of her own red blood
soon after Leo’s arrival.
Amos, demented, frightened and wracked
by a love which the living form of his wife
had never been able to inspire, arrived as
they were drawing the white sheet over
the whiter face.
For a time he was stricken dumb. Then
Leo, while he sought for some condolence
which might assuage in a measure the
horror of the husband, was pelted with a
violent hail of vituperation. Great knotted
veins clustered on Amos’s forehead; his
lips were drawn back from his yellow teeth.
His fists were clenched. He was an animal
raging to destroy.
“You! You did this! Who brought you
here? Who asked you to come here! Get
out! Get out before I kill you. Quick!
What have you done to her? She was all
right when I left this morning! You wait
till a chap turns his back, then you crawl
in like the murderer you are! Get out!”
The Sherrys spread the story. Fanny, by
her unlikeness to themselves, her delicate
physique and her queer smile, had early
incurred their dislike; and now she had met
her proper end.
Well, this doctor accosted Amos on the
street one morning. Was quite familiar.
Probably thought the husband knew all
about it. As if poor Amos—why, the
thought of children was everything to
Amos! No, it was poor Fanny’s doing!
And this doctor had taken advantage of
the poor girl’s overwrought state. If you
asked them, he had been responsible for
the whole dreadful thing. It had been
done one morning while Amos was out of
the house. And so on.
The town was divided. It seethed. The
neighbor, Mrs. Mahoney, had a following,
and she had an able tongue. But the
Sherrys, triumphant, waved the corpse of
poor Fanny and blinded reason with their
terrible exhibit.
For two days no one came near Leo’s
surgery. The sick stayed sick and waited
fearfully the decision of the issue. Then
John Cartwright paid a visit to William
Harbody and the “Champion” clinched the
matter.
“Our deepest sympathies go out to Mr.
Amos Sherry in his recent sad bereavement.
His wife, who had been ailing for some
time, took bad on Thursday morning while
alone in the house. Mrs. Mahoney, who
lives next door, learning of the poor lady’s
state, went at once for Doctor Gherardi,
who saw deceased for the first time, when
it was too late. Mrs. Sherry passed away
a few minutes after the doctor’s arrival,
despite his every effort on her behalf. We
must congratulate the doctor on his prompt-
ness in answering the call, and feel assured
that, had Providence so decreed, the
doctor’s efforts would have preserved to us
this well-liked lady.”
This and Amos’s reputation, emerging
from the sentimental fog which had tem-
porarily obscured it, routed the rumors,
which fled to breed in dark comers which
the sun of reason could not reach.
It was a farmer, offensive and ribald, who
had first disclosed the public view to Leo,
till then bewildered by Amos’s attack.
“They’re sayin’ you fixed it so’s this wife
of Amos Sherry’s wouldn’t have her kid.
Well, you fixed it all right, Doc! But if
that’s the best you kin do, I reckon I’ll
leave my old woman be.”
For a long time after he had gone, Leo
sat immovable, crouched over his desk.
His thoughts were a whirling wheel of fire.
He was shuddering with rage. At last, from
the dizzily spinning circle one thing
emerged clearly. He must get away. He
must get away swiftly from this back-
water, which seemed a sluggish pool, but
had dark and treacherous little currents,
terrible little vortexes, the more terrible
because they were here where one expected
to find tranquillity, peace. In the main
stream one anticipated and was prepared
for swift, savage undercurrents, waiting
malevolently to drag and drown one in
darkness. But not here. Mean and terrible
in its' littleness! He must get away.
And even while he considered it, that
thought Was merged into another and was
lost in a new presentation no less vivid and
compelling.
He must stay here! By all the gods, he
would fight these mean and terrible pea-
sants. He, Leo Gherardi, to be caught in
their miserable little vortex! How dared
they! Did they think their insignificant
malice could hurt him?
John Cartwright’s calm sanity opposed
his furious calculations. "You won’t get
anything by making a noise,” John said
trenchantly. “I didn’t tell you what was
being said. I knew you’d fly off the handle.
Where’s your dignity, man? Treat this
gossip with the contempt it deserves.”
“I will break for him his neck and stop
his lies!” Leo’s face was inflamed with rage.
“Don’t be a fool. If you sit tight, every-
body will forget about it in a week. The
town knows Amos well enough. Once this
artificial wave of sympathy goes he’ll be
high and dry and in his right place. A
row would only make people think there
was something in the business. Let well
alone. Have you seen the ‘Champion’?
Here!” He thrust across the paper.
Leo read it and could find nothing to say.
“That will do more good than any thun-
dering of yours. Leave this business to me.
I can fix it. In fact, it’s fixed now. The
people here have a great respect for the
printed word.”
(2).
He went home slowly, bowed beneath
the weight of his own worthlessness. How
little fitted he was to cope with this life
which he found himself living! He was
unable even to redress his own wrongs, he,
the important Leo Gherardi, so impressive
to his own people that they had nominated
him for member of Parliament after he
had been absent from them for three years.
And this small town, to which he had given
such honesty and work, had been instantly
ready to arraign him for vileness! Be-
cause they had appeared to accept him he
thought they had accepted him. And now
the slow beast had wakened from its bovine
slumber and rejected him!
In the bitterness of his abasement he im-
agined himself pilloried, outcast by the
whole town. He tasted the dregs of his
humiliation and crept to Teresa for solace.
Their positions had in these last weeks been
curiously reversed. She was now the com-
forter, he the despairing. She found her-
self heartening him, upbraiding him, preach-
ing patience and forbearance, as previously
he had upbraided and preached, and doing
it joyously. A bubbling spring of optimism
had gushed from a. hidden source in her
heart. The vigor of his hate and disgust
enchanted her. This was her man!
She spent long hours with Dino, patiently
teaching him, substituting the foundations
of an education in Italian for that which
he was acquiring at the nuns’ school. The
result was complete befuddlement of the
child, and he learned little. But Teresa
laughed at his school report, which said
that the child seemed bright but quite un-
able to concentrate.
When Dino requested that he be called
Dinny, because all the boys at school called
him Dinny, why didn’t she? Teresa laughed
mockingly. A few months ago such a re-
quest would have precipitated tears and
hysteria. She would have taken it as a
visible sign of the enemy’s encroachment.
Even the name of her loved ones they
would take from her! But now it
mattered little. Let them call him
what they liked. In a little while she
would have him back; he would be home
with her, where he belonged, and this
strange interlude would be but a memory.
Leo had grown morose, over-sensitive,
and blind to significances. He had hope-
lessly over-estimated the town’s animosity,
exaggerating the section into the whole. In
as far as this concerned his social relations,
Teresa was glad. But when she saw that his
business was being affected she abused
him roundly. Extreme withdrawal was to
be feared no less than submersion.
“There is a man in the surgery,” Teresa
would say.
Leo would not take his eyes from his
book. “Well, I do not care. I will not
see him. Why should I bother about these
people?”
“Are you sick?”
“Yes, tell him I am too sick to see
patients.”
She would storm at him for a few
minutes. He would be wearily adamant,
and at length lose his temper, and, putting
her in the passage, shut the door.
His homesickness had become acute, his
memory a scourge. He entered on a new
phase of his depression. A hundred times
he wished, always guiltily, that he was free
to go; and Teresa and Dino appeared now,
to his overwrought mind, as chains about
his feet. It was these two who compelled
him to remain in the treadmill. “Were I
alone I would be free now, this moment,”
he told himself. And the same instant he
found himself replying: “Well, desert them.
Either that, or work for them. You are
being a fool.”
His illogicality was to him apparent, but
he was incapable of lifting himself out of
the slough. He wanted to hui’t the two who
chained him, and, even if he hurt himself
as well, that did not matter.
Then the weakness passed and he grew
resolute, though not happy. He decided,
hating, that he would drag from the town
all the money he could. He was back into
harness, pulling with fervor before any,
except John Cartwright, realised that he
had slackened. John was relieved and
abandoned the idea of “speaking to him”
as he had intended.
Re-absorption in his work provided a
loophole in the wall of reserve which he
imagined he had built, and friendliness
began to filter through. Those in the town
who had been interested in the scandal con-
cerning Amos Sherry’s wife soon forgot it,
as Cartwright had prophesied. Most of
Leo’s social acquaintances, including the
members of the hospital committee, had
never noticed the affair, except &s another
example of the meanness of Amos. Slowly
he recovered his self-esteem.
He went quail-shooting one Wednesday
afternoon with Macpherson and John Cart-
wright, the three of them crammed into a
sulky. Driving home, with the sky an
orange flame, the subject of Amos arose.
Leo was pleasantly tired.
“Amos Sherry tried to make a bit of
trouble for you, didn’t he Doctor?” Mac-
pherson said. “He’s a rat, that chap. I
bad dealings with him once.”
“It was nothing. The man was very
ignorant. By now he his mistake.”
The words had been a direct expression
of the thought.
As they drove along he fell silent, leaving
the conversation to the other two. He
was taking stock of himself, a.nd was sur-
prised to find how imperceptibly he had
travelled to the point where he could dis-
miss Amos’s accusation so lightly. He
wondered why he had ever regarded it im-
portantly. He was well enough liked. He
was accepted as a comrade. Here he was
driving along on this serene afternoon,
blood brother to these two. ]pe had hunted
with them, shot with them, was tired with
them, was experiencing with them the per-
fect amity of that desultory, happy ex-
change of conversation which is the essence
of complete fraternity.
The sun had set, the orange fire was out.
Banton, clustering beneath them as they
breasted a rise, was bathed in the vivid
afterglow. To Leo’s eyes it appeared to
have shrunken and seemed in its smallness,
its slightness, pathetically brave. And he
saw a beauty, which he had never seen
before in this very fact of its pathos, its
slender, indomitable opposition to the en-
croaching Nature around it.
“Why don’t you come down to the
School of Arts meeting to-night? You
ought to be on the committee. We have
too many business men and not enough
interested in books. If you like I could
nominate you. Simpson was asking about
you.” Macpherson drew rein. They were
home. Leo got down from the sulky and
collected his bag of game.
“I’m too busy for that sort of thing, old
man!” he said cheerfully. The bag with
its soft lumps pleased him. It was the
badge of admission to the brotherhood.
Occasionally a cry, “Well done. Doctor!”
had rung out for him, a cry tinged with
envy. Probably he was a fool to estimate
these trivialities so preciously.
(To bo continued next week.)


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY
30th MARCH TO Bth APRIL, 1931 Nine Days, Five Nights
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
EXTENSION OF DATES FOR CLOSING OF ENTRIES.
HORSES (except Trotting Events) Wednesday, 25th Feb.
TROTTING EVENTS Monday, 2nd March
CATTLE and PIGS Saturday, 28th Feb.
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS Wednesday, 4th March
DOGS and CATS Saturday, 7th March
AGRICULTURE (except Maize) Saturday, 7th March
MAIZE Wednesday, 11th March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) Saturday, 7th March
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS Thursday, 12th March
BUCKJUMPING and STEER-RIDING COMPETI- o
TIONS Wednesday, 25th March
HORTICULTURE Saturday, 28th March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Endeavour House, «• 0. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. accreuiry.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. I
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tnis
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Public Notice.
The Australian Sugar Producers’
Association, Limited.
MOTICE. —Owing to postponement of the Council
Meeting of this Association, consideration of
applications received for the Secretaryship has been
postponed for a month.
v>
32
7BT1
Cigars
Craio*Aitken
Who] Distributor
Sidney N.S.W.
For Sale.
VIEW season’s Government-tested RHODES
1N GRASS SEED, lOd. pound, from
L. O’BRIEN,
Mulgeldie,
Gayndah Line, Queensland.
s®S*
Sfc.l
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc-
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
By capturing the Caulfield Futurity Stakes
Phar Lap brought his total earnings to over
£50,000, and became the record stake-winner.
Carbine (£29,626) stood at the head of the
list for many years. Gloaming credited G.
D. Greenwood with £43,100 before ending
his racing days. Quite recently old Amounis
took up the running with £47,462. Now
Phar Lap, when only half-way through his
four-year-old season, has ousted him. If
prize-money were not being reduced in all
directions, goodness knows what level the
son of Night Raid would reach. The value
of the Futurity Stakes was determined two
years ago, and the winner’s share was £2500.
It was the hardest race in Phar Lap’s
whole career; in fact, with any other man
than Jim Pike in the saddle the champion
would have suffered defeat. Missing the
jump-out, from No. 2 berth, Phar Lap soon
was surrounded by rivals and pinned to the
rails, where he could not stretch out pro-
perly. Pike adopted the only sound policy
in the circumstances. He deliberately pulled
the chestnut back, until, after travelling
about two furlongs, he was last. Meanwhile
Taurus, an Adelaide five-year-old, unpenal-
ised, had been scampering along at the head
of affairs. Pike took Phar Lap to the
extreme outside, called on him in grim ear-
nest as they rounded the home turn, and
gradually drew on Taurus, while Mystic
Peak, advantaged by a run on the rails,
joined issue. Had Taurus kept a straight
course he might have registered a 100-to-l
victory. Pike cleverly avoided being ham-
pered by Taurus, and, with infinite skill,
managed to keep Phar Lap going long enough
to score ‘by a neck from Mystic Peak. To
judge from the immobility of his jockey, it
might have been imagined that Phar Lap
was toying with the, opposition, but actually
he was flat out.
Seeing that he carried only lib. less than
the champion, the form of Mystic Peak was
a revelation. He conceded 81b. to Green-
line, who did not gain a place. It is beyond
belief that Greenline can turn the tables
on Pat Quinlan’s gelding in the Newmarket
Handicap on 161 b. worse terms. Mollison
(fourth) shaped creditably; but Waterline,
who was second favorite, failed to reproduce
his Williamstown running. On the strength
of his victory in a division of the Oakleigh
Plate, First Arrow looks to be the pick of
Newmarket Handicap aspirants; but he will
have to reckon very seriously with Taurus.
Among the heavyweights, Mystic Peak is
most entitled to support. Walvin failed sig-
nally in the Hawksburn Handicap, and must
be discarded. On the other hand, Holdfast
ought to be improved by his outing in the
second division of the Hawksburn Handicap.
He was in front at the home turn, and
finished just behind the four place-getters.
There was a dead heat for third position, be-
tween Double It (Adelaide) and Anchor
(Sydney). Spanish Galleon defeated Myarin
by half a neck, with the other pair less than
a head farther off.
Temoin won the first division of the Hawks-
burn Handicap by the narrowest of margins
from .Crouse. He is in the same stable as
Waterline, and does not compare with that
gelding on home trials. Merab was unlucky
enough to be pocketed when finishing strongly
in Temoin’s race, after being a long way
from the leaders at three furlongs. He is
not thoroughly sound.
Induna performed very poorly in the
Woodcliff Handicap. Possibly a mile and
three furlongs is too short a distance for
the South Australian colt; yet he came home
well behind Phar Lap in the St. George
Stakes, of nine furlongs, a week before. His
splendid victory (at 6 to 4) in the “Wood-
cliff” points to Veilmond having a mortgage
on the V.R.C. St. Leger. Ned Moss’s colt
would have finished many lengths in advance
of Cevantes (second) if he had not hung in.
Cevantes has advanced in favor for the Aus-
tralian Cup, in which N. S. Wales ought
to be worthily represented by Dalston.
Gay Salute gave Victorian studmaster
A. G. Hunter a winning turn in the V.A.T.C.
St. Clair Trial. His dam was imported from
England by Sol Green, in foal to Gay
Crusader, and Gay Salute was the result of
that union. James Scobie went nap on Illus-
trious for the first division of the Alma
Stakes. He trains this Heroic colt for Agar
Wynne, who, owing to ill health, has resigned
from the V.Ii.G. committee. Scobie secured
the services of Duncan for Illustrious, but
the favorite struck his colors to Sally’s Robe,
a filly that claims close relationship with
Mollison. The second division went to
Gynottar, whose sire, Dunnottar, a son of
Tracery, is coming strongly into the limelight
as a stallion.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:-
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Bold Bid; next,
Gynottar.
Essendon Stakes : Phar Lap; next, Glare.
Newmarket Handicap: First Arrow 1,
Taurus 2, Holdfast 3.
St. Leger Stakes: Veilmond.
* * * *
William Booth, previously rather unlucky
with his two-year-olds, especially Irish
Eyes, captured a double with youngsters
from his Rosehill stable at Warwick Farm.
One was a filly named Plilare (Legionnaire
—Cymbala), who put in a surprising finish
in the first division of the Ingleburn Nur-
sery Handicap to win by lengths from
Heroic’s daughter Herolage and Wanderlust.
Plilare was one of five bracketed at 6 to 1,
it being that price the field. In the second
division a hot favorite in Ptolemy, ridden
by Cook, was beaten out of a place; Miss
Una Clift’s filly Ardeen (3 to 1), by Moabite
—Meenah, was a good winner from two out-
IN THE AIR.
ABSENT-MINDED PROFESSOR: " Don’t stand, there gaping, hoy! What the devil did I
do with that brassey?"
siders, Rory O’More and Bold Boy. Booth
gave two of his own boys the mounts —
Britt on Phlare and Williams on Ardeen.
Backers mostly wanted Sidney George and
Theban for the Glenfield Handicap, but
neither looked dangerous at any time. In
the straight this Page’s selection, Sunlit
Reef (16 to 1), singled out, but just when
her victory seemed assured Lady O’Clare
(5 to 1) swooped down on her and got the
judge’s verdict by half a neck. Another out-
sider, Veneer, was third. Sunlit Reef may
be worth following, as she looks very well.
She was interfered with during the race, the
stewards report.
B. R. Payten cannot now regret having
omitted to nominate Attar for the Sydney
Cup. That hitherto successful three-year-old
failed to stay 11 furlongs in the February
Handicap, being done with a furlong from
home. There Inducement (6 to 1), who
had been last early, forged to the front, but
Cook took things easily when he thought he
had everything settled, and Gemlight (6 to
1), coming fast, made a dead-heat of it;
Sunflare was third. Inducement’s sup-
porters were justly aggrieved. Attar looked
fine, and was very excitable before the race;
possibly he needs a spell. The time was very
creditable —2min; 19|sec.
The Minto Handicap brought out a field
of 15 —fields were numerous during the
day—and provided some animated betting,
though there were apparently passengers.
Most of the inquiries as the bookmakers
were shutting their bags were for Ivavalli,
but he struck trouble. Greenbird (6 to 1),
sometime a champion at the pony courses,
had things all his own way at the finish,
Bonawe (6 to 1) and Tray mobile (10 to 1)
filling the places. Greenbird is a six-year-
old black gelding by Green|stead —Dorrie
Merton.
* sf * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: Lord Borneo: next,
Tregilla.
February Handicap: Amanullah; next,
Hustler.
Granville Stakes: Prince Carday; next,
Nash.
Flying Welter: Beckwith ; next, Cronulla.
* * * *
Edward Manifold, who died in Melbourne
the other day at 62, was a noted polo-
player, and was prominent in racing circles
also, being a member of the V.R.C. com-
mittee at the time of his death. His par-
ticular hobby was a jumping horse, and,
with his brother, he was part-owner of
Dungan, who won the G. N. Steeple in 1596.
Other good ones owned by the pair were
Mysore (G. N. Steeple, 1899), and Airly
(Australian Steeple, 1904). Under his
own colors he took the G. N. Steeple in 1916
with CoradjiJ, and the Australian Hurdle in
1913 with Ballista. In flat events Manifold
scored well in handicaps some years ago with
Harbinger, while Rigadoon, a Victorian
Derby fancy of last year who died sud-
denly just before the race, was also his
property.
“Swan”: Perth’s proprietary racing clubs
recently reduced the price of tote tickets
from 10s. to 55., and this has been followed
up by Belmont Park installing a double-
tote on the lines which have proved so popular
in Britain and South Africa. Punters at the
opening meeting were a bit shy of the new
scheme, but it is expected that it will
catch on. One objection is that their
money is “locked up” until the second leg
of the double is decided. Belmont is mini-
mising this objection by providing that
the public can put their double bets on
horses in two successive races.
# * * *
William Thompson, one of the kings of the
Australian blood-stock industry, will put up
the shutters this month and sell off the
Yarraman Park stud, near Scone (N.S.W.).
It is 59 years since he bred his first thorough-
bred, Master Linne. Among his many good
winners were Posinatus (Melbourne Cup,
1913), Eurythmic (Caulfield Cup, 1920,
Sydney Cup, 1921), Alawa (V.R.C. Derby,
1908), Eusebius (V.R.C. Derby and Leger,
1918), and numerous others. Among the
many famous sires who passed through his
hands were Malster, Lochiel and Grafton.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
That a good big boxer will usually beat
a good little one was demonstrated at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night, when ban-
tam-weight champion Billy McAlister (Bst.
3|lb.) stopped Teddy Green (Bst. o£lb.). It
was their ninth meeting, and McAlister had
w-on most of the previous encounters. Green's
supporters, however, thought he would win
this time, and provided £5O to back their
judgment. McAlister was always master of
the situation, and after dropping Green
twice in round 12 collected the decision and
the side-bet on a technical knockout.
* * * *
American Tommy Fielding (lOst. 111 b.)
outfought Rus Critcher (lOst. 311 b.) in
the last round of their fight at Leichhardt
and might have knocked his man out if he
had fought his hardest from the first bell.
Fielding often threatened to take the initia-
tive but left it until too late. Critcher, who
connected with innumerable left and right
leads in the earlier rounds, won by a wide
margin.
The Ins and Outs
South Australia finished the second day of
its match at Adelaide against Victoria in a
good position for a first-innings win. The
Wheatfielders ran to the solid score of 439,
this including a masterly 159 by Lonergan,
who, with Waite (74), added 152 for the
fifth wicket in 115 minutes. Grimmett (32),
Walker (44 n. 0.) and Carlton (34) set the
tail wagging to some purpose. Ironmonger
(7-135) practically monopolised the wickets.
At lunch on Monday Victoria had lost 6 for
223, Woodfull being unbeaten with 125.
* * * *
West Indies gave an attractive display in
their second match against N.S.W. at
Sydney Cricket Ground, 339 being reached
in 250 minutes. The N.S.W. bowling was
certainly off color, as was the fielding, bat
the visitors took full advantage of the situa-
tion and did not. enjoy the best of luck.
Roach opened well with 55, when he was
wonderfully caught by Hunt at close mid-
on. Headley again batted like a tradesman,
and was run out at 70, in attempting a short
run, by Kippax. Grant (36) and Sealy (58)
kept the rate of scoring going, the latter,
making his first appearance in Sydney, prov-
ing an attractive and stylish batsman Con-
stantine played some lovely shots behind
point in his innings of 41, and Barrow (29),
with Scott' (17), made a useful stand in the
closing stages. Chilvers had the best bowl-
ing figures with 3 for 56. The visitors did
well to dismiss five N.S.W. batsmen for 105,
Constantine bowling Bradman for 10.
* * * *
“Couch”: The N.S.W. cricket authorities
have at last cancelled the tacit recognition
of the ground-man as a third party in the
consultation between the rival captains as
to whether a pitch is fit for play or not. Of
late years the ground-man has been allowed
to air his opinions, and since he is naturally
averse to seeing his wickets cut about, his
verdict is too often on the side of post-
ponement. Indeed, so accepted has the
ground-man convention become that many
of the bodies leasing their grounds to
cricket clubs have inserted a clause in
the contract enforcing the presence of
the official, and making his decision final.
This has now been definitely forbidden, and
the captains, with the aid of the umpires if
necessary, are the arbiters.
(Continued on next page.)
“Toowong” : One of the nightmares of the
Queensland rowing clubs is flood. The State’s
clubs all have their sheds on the big rivers
debouching on the east coast of Bananaland,
and most of these are subject to sudden
and heavy floods. Brisbane was a particular
sufferer in the big wetness just receded, all
the four men’s clubs having sustained serious
damage and loss. It would be hard to say
on liow many occasions clubhouses and boats
have gone sailing to the sea. The oldest
Brisbane club, 'Commercial, has had this
experience a dozen times. This time flood
damage was aggravated by the subsidence of
a retaining-wall on the river bank high above
the Commercial clubhouse. This fell on the
building and smashed the shed as well as
several of the boats.
* * * *
Jim Carlton surprised his warmest
admirers by defeating the world-famous
American sprinter, Simpson, at Wellingtou
(M.L.) in both the 100 and 220 yards
events. Carlton, only a couple of days off
the boat, won the 100 with 2\ yards to
spare and the 220 by six yards from the
M.L. runner Jenkins, Simpson unfortunately
breaking down in the final tussle. The
winner’s times, 10 2-ssec. and 22 1-osec.,
would be nothing wonderful in ordinary cir-
cumstances, but they were made against a
Wellington north wind, which is the equiva-
lent of a howling gale anywhere else.


«
Gert; somebodv told r*ie vouve
Been doing* some shooting,"
Bert; V/ell,ve£>- i potted a pew
Last Saturday *
Gert •. Rabbits ?
Bert; " No siu.^-Giera.niums"
The Ins and Outs
Though well behind on the first innings in
the fourth Test against England at Johannes-
burg, the Afrikanders made a fine recovery,
and all but won on time with only 37 runs
to get and three wickets to fall. With two
down for 166 against England’s first-innings
score of 442, the Home side had 243 up for
5; then the Middlesex-Oxford googly bowler,
Peebles, took a hand, and the remaining bats-
men collapsed. The innings ended at 295,
Peebles having taken 6 for 63. England
closed their second innings with 9 down for
169, Nupen (6 for 46) playing havoc. With
317 to win, the Afrikanders lost their chance
by a slow start. Mitchell (74) and ’keeper
Cameron (69 n. 0.) did their best to remedy
matters, but the run was left too late.
S’Africa has a leg in for the series, having
scored the only win to date.
❖ H: H* #
“ ’Badian”: Though they have had a bad
spin in a cricket sense, the homing West
Indians are loud in their praises of the
hospitality extended to them. It seems
likely that the trip will not be a financial
success, and that is a pity, for the W.I.
cricket coffers are never very full, and this
tour is the costliest ever undertaken. Gener-
ally speaking, the side has given creditable
displays against fast and medium bowling of
the type with which it is familiar at home.
The slow bowlers, especially Grimmett, have
been a nightmare to the* visitors, and some
of them have also shown a marked dislike
to left-hand stuff.
“Tenth Slip”: The West Indians are un-
commonly willing to learn, which is more
than can be said of some other teams which
have visited Australia. It is interesting to
note the manner in which they set out to
try to master the slow bowling which
has been their undoing. After the open-
ing matches they never missed a chance
to enlist the services of a trundler
or two of this type in the various centres
visited. The result of this practice is evident
in the improved batting of several of the
team, notably Headley, now quite at home
even to Grimmett, as he showed more than
once on the southern tour.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: A happening rare in cricket
nowadays, but once fairly common, was the
discovery by an umpire in one of the Tests
against the West Indies that Ponsford’s bat
was broader than the regulations allowed. Law
4 lays down that the bat must not exceed
4jin. in width and 38in. length overall. Even
in these days of standardisation it occa-
sionally happens that a well-used bat,
especially one of the soft, white willow type,
will spread under the hammering, and this
is possibly what happened in Ponsford’s
case. In bygone days, W. G. Grace was a
holy terror for challenging bats, especially
if an opposing batsman was getting well set
and would be, in the doctor’s opinion, the
better for a little diversion from the mono-
tony of run-getting. Indeed he has been
accused of always carrying his own gauge
with him to make sure.
* * $ #
G. L. Garnsey, coach to the N.S.W.
Cricket Association and editor of that admir-
able publication the “Coaching Magazine,”
which is published by the association, notched
his fiftieth birthday a week or so ago. His
specialty i.s the supervision of the colts, a
job which occupies him four days a week,
and of which he can never have enough.
There could be few better men for the job,
for to an all-round knowledge of cricket he
adds the experience of many Sheffield Shield
matches for N.S.W. A left-hand bowler of
unusual ability, G.L. has taken 41 wickets
in Sheffield cricket alone for N.S.W. at an
average of 23.75, and was for years a regular
member of the N.S.W. attack in other first-
class matches.
sjs * H* ❖
“Third Man”: Alan Kippax is ending up
the cricket season by taking a strong side
from Sydney on a comprehensive tour of
North' Queensland. The team will include
six of the Australian Eleven, including Grim-
mett and Jackson, while Rigg and Bill will be
other components of a very strong lot. The
side starts at Cairns, working down the
coast to Rockhampton, where a journey west-
ward to Longreach will be made. The final
match of the tour will be at Grafton
(N.S.W.) on the way home. The Australian
Eleven section of the touring side will be
up against an unusual experience. Expenses
will be paid, but all the cash available will
be 10s. a day for out-of-pocket expenses.
* * * *
“Newlands”: The South African bowler
A. E. Hall (B. 18/2/’3l) is not from Lan-
cashire, though he had an engagement there
for a couple of seasons with Nelson in Lan-
cashire League cricket. He has been in the
forefront of South African bowlers for some
years, his first appearance being against
Mann’s side in 1923, when he took 30
wickets at an average of 24.43 in first-class
games against the visitors. He did not go to
England next season, but played against
Joel’s team in 1925. his bag being 33
wickets averaging 19.66.
Racquet and Bawl
“Fitzcray”: The proposed visit of the
American tennis team headed by Tilden has
received additional advertisement. It is
alleged that J. Wren has asked Tilden to
take part in a series of contests arranged
independently of the Australian tennis
authorities. These last . are suffering
mental agony, since, if the intrusion is
a fact, they are certain to be outbid when it
comps to terms. It is possible thfit the asso-
ciation might counter by forbidding all mem-
bers and affiliated players to appear under
the Wren banner under pain of disqualifica-
tion, but it would be necessary to have the
co-operation of all the States for, this, and
that would be difficult to manage.
* H: He H*
“Top Spin”: With Tilden and Hunter out,
since they are now professionals, the Ameri-
can tennis ranking list has an unfamiliar
aspect. The men are headed by Doeg, and
the women by Mrs. Moody—our old friend
Helen Wills. England’s lot has “Bunny”
Austin and Mrs. Watson as headliners, while
it is significant that France still depends on
the old brigade, Cochet, Borotra, Boussus
and Brugnon figuring in that order, though
1340 players were classified. The most
promising of the younger set is M. Bernard,
aged 16, while Paul Feret, who turned
pro. in Suzanne Lenglen’s train and was
later whitewashed, is also prominent on the
list.
* H* ❖ H:
“Ho Ki”: Nothing is more eloquent, of the
changes in China than the news that the
former boy emperor of the Flowery Land,
Pu Yi, last of the Ching dynasty, is a
tennis addict. Time; was when he >vas a god
more secluded than any inmate of the Vati-
can, or the Dalai Lama himself. He was
first infected with the tennis germ by a
meeting with Dwight Davis, Governor of
the Philippines and donor of the Davis
Cup. So well has he developed that he is to
be coached by Gordon Lum, a Chinese born
in Victoria, who figured on several occasions
in Victorian teams. Lum, now resident in
China, is a Chinese Davis Cup representative,
and one of the leading players of Eastern
Asia.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Jack Crawford has recently
caused something of a sensation on Sydney
tennis courts by turning out with an old-
fashioned, squareheaded racquet of the type
popular 30 years ago and once much affected
by Norman Brookes, it would be interesting
to trace the evolution of the modern oval
racquet. When the lawn game was new the
racquets used were the lopsided ovoids
peculiar to real tennis. All sorts of variations
in shape and method of stringing followed
until the present practically universal type
was evolved. One freak I particularly recall.
It had a big, square frame, but the stringing
was interlaced hexagonals instead of the
right-angled fashion of to-day.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Australian golf-club
officials are gloomy these days. Many club
members of long standing are throwing in
the towel through inability to find the mem-
bership fees. Some of the clubs have
only themselves to blame, since their
desire to remain “exclusive” has caused them
to force up entrance money and annual sub-
scriptions to a ridiculous height. Others
are suggesting a moratorium, but this is
hardly practicable. Another plan finding
favor' is the payment of subscriptions in
instalments, weekly or monthly, instead of
cash down in advance as has hitherto been
the practice.
* * # *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne golfers last
week welcomed back a returned traveller in
the person of Gladys Hay, one of the lead-
ing girleen golfers of the'Cabbage Garden.
The young lady played a lot of golf during
her stay in Britain, and is emphatic in her
opinion" that the women players of this
country are not in the same class as their
opposite numbers overseas. Her explanation
is that in Britain the female of the species
has to play over much longer courses than
those usually allotted to associate members
in Australia, and this gives them a great
advantage in championship play, tending as
it does to compel them to go for a longer
game from the tee and through the green.
There is a good deal in the theory. Not
only are the British courses longer than the
Australian, but they are much more
difficult, whether for men or women players.
Too many of our Australian links are dead
easy from an expert golfer’s point of view,
and this largely accounts for the inferiority
of Australian golfers when stacked up
against the best overseas.
$ $ $ $
“Centurion”: Though N. S. Wales
golfers are pleased that the annual con-
test for the A.I.F. Cup has at last
been thrown open to professionals who
served in the disturbance with Fritz
and Jacko, there is some heartburning over
the division of the tourney into three sec-
tions, each on a different course, the best net
score of the total field being returned the
winner. Handicapping is expected to level
inequalities up as much as possible, but there
is still an impression that those fortunate
enough to be set down on the fast Killara
course will be better suited by conditions
than the performers on Manly or Kensington.
The former method of playing the whole
tourney in one day on one course had dis-
advantages. Start had to be made at day-
break, and the last on the list didn’t see the
nineteenth until after statutory closing
hours. Still the bringing together of every-
one on one course had its social side, and
that aspect vanishes under the new condi-
tions.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Kenya Colony has lost its
repute for harboring the highest course
in the world—it is somewhere on the slopes
of Mt. Kilimanjaro, which rises thousands of
feet from a plateau far above sea-level. The
cake is now taken by Bolivia, where at the
capital, La Paz, golf is played on a course
12,000 ft. above the beach, or rather more
than twice the height of Australia’s most
elevated links at Kosciusko. Attention has
been called to the Bolivian course by the
fact that the Prince of Wales and his brother
Prince George are scheduled to play on it
some time this week, the pair being at pre-
sent engaged in visiting the various South
American States by ’plane. One doubts,
however, if the Bolivians get the full enjoy-
ment that regular golf affords when playing
on the top of the world. At that height, the
least excitement leaves a man breathless, and
a golfer in that plight has no hope of doing
himself justice.
* * *
“Carnoustie”: America, ever optimistic, is
convinced it has found the legitimate suc-
cessor to Bobby Jones. Like the Georgian,
the new find, Maurice McCarthy, is a law
student, and he is already being tipped as
one of the members of the next Walker Cup
team which is to do battle for America
against Britain for what is practically the
world’s amateur match championship. He
was offered a place in the team last year
when Jesse Sweetser dropped out, but as he
had an exam, on hand he refused the honor. A
strong player, he is champion of New York,
and in addition to his golf is one of the best
all-round athletes in that city of dreadful
skite.
Car and Cycle
“Whiz”: Three new records in one week
for the same class of car is something out
of the common. Malcolm Campbell’s baby-
car record of 93.96 m.p.h. was wiped out
two days after by another English driver in
a Morris Midget, on the Montlhery track, he
hoisting 97.07 m.p.h. That was hardly on
the wires before G. E. T. Eyston, also in a
Morris Midget, wheeled off 102.76 m.p.h. for
5 miles and 101.87 for 10. All the cars con-
cerned were fitted with superchargers.
* $ :|s *
“R.D.”: A new type of motor-car has been
shown in France by an Italian named
Genetosa. It consists mostly of a spokeless
wheel five feet in diameter, with a seat for
the driver hung below the centre of gravity.
It is equipped with a steering device and con-
trols and is driven by a light internal-com-
bustion engine. Motion is conveyed to the
wheel from the motor by a revolving metal
rail attached concentrically to the wheel,
which, in its turn, is acted upon by cogs.
There is, of course, a fuel tank and provision
for luggage.
* He ❖ ❖
“Spark Gap”: The Australian-invented
ignition device for motor-cars which super-
sedes the ordinary electric spark by an ampli-
fied ray has come through further tests. The
original trial was a journey from Melbourne
to Darwin and back in a six-cylinder-car fitted
with the device, now known as Raysola. The
latest test was 9000 miles of flying round
Australia in a Mark I Gypsy ’plane witho.ut
any of the spark plugs having to be re-
moved for cleaning. Examination at the
end of the flight showed a very slight de-
posit of carbon on plugs and cylinder linings,
though second-grade petrol, instead of the
usual aviation quality, was purposely used.
sfc ❖ $
“Kick Starter”: When English motor-
cyclist J. S. Wright put up a new speed
for motor-cycles lately he did so in one of
the weirdest get-ups ever seen outside a
fancy-dress ball in a mental hospital. Photo-
graphs show him with an extraordinary
streamlined crash helmet, and close-fitting
tights which were fastened on by many yards
of adhesive tape wound round arms aaid legs.
His feet were hidden in streamlined cases,
and there was a cowling on the steering head,
while the wheels were fitted with discs. His
two recorded runs were 152.48 m.p.h. and
149.02 in the opposite direction, a mean of
150.736 m.p.h., or more than 13 miles better
than the earlier record of his German rival
Henne.
* * $ *
“Roller”: If Duncan Gray, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), can keep his present form on the
bike he should figure well in the cycle events
at the Los Angeles Olympiad next year. His
latest feat of winning the mile and five-
mile titles of Australia brings his list of
championships up to seven.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: It is now definite that an
Australian team will ride in the Tour de
France race, which takes 27 days over a
2976-mile ' circuit, Nicholson and Thomas
having left Melbourne for Europe to join
Lamb and Opperman. The trade teams
system lias been eliminated; contestants
will ride as national teams. This should
give the tourists a far better chance than
on the last occasion, when the trade
combinations nursed the Continental riders
at the expense of the Australians. The
Australian team is a really brilliant one, and
should pick up good money in the many
Continental events in which it will take part
in addition to the Tour.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: After all, the American athletes
will be seen in action in Sydney, but for one
appearance only, on March 25. As they
arrive only tli% day before they will be show-
ing at a disadvantage as far as the runners,
Simpson and Kiser, are concerned, though the
field-games expert, Rothert, will not be so
handicapped. The trio leave for Japan on
March 26 on their way home. Kiser had his
first important success in Maoriland last
week, beating the mighty Randolph Rose in
a mile race at New Plymouth. At the same
meeting Rothert put the 161 b. shot 50ft.
4Jin., or over 4ft. better than the Austral-
asian record by P. Munro, of Maoriland, in
1927.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian amateur ath-
letic championships produced some good
performances, chief of them being the estab-
lishment of a new Australasian discus record
by J. P. Wallace, of Geelong, who reached
135 ft. B£in., or 3ft. ahead of the
standing figures credited to Maorilander P.
Munro. Wallace, who threw against the
wind, was a Cambridge University champion.
Only one event went outside the State, But-
ton,’ of N.S.W., winning the broad jump with
22ft. Sin.
Hi H* ❖ *
“The Gaffer” : Tom Miles, the Queensland
professional sprinter, who was looked upon
some time ago as another Arthur Postle, has
fallen foul of the Victorian Athletic League,
which put him on the peg for ai month for a
breach of the rules. This was followed by
another month for loitering in a sprint at
Greenborough, the sentence preventing the
Bundabergian from making an attack on
the Victorian 130-yard record at Wangaratta
sports. Miles won the Stawell Gift in 1927,
and the so-called world’s sprint champion-
ship in Melbourne the following year. A
leg injury set him back, but he has recently
been showing a revival of his earlier form.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide was roused from its
wonted calm the other day by the annual
swimming race through the city, this being
an important item on the list of local dis-
sipations. The distance is a mile and 200
yards, and the winner turned up in 13-year-
otd Bob Stanway, who is a member of Gil-
berton club. Robert had 13 minutes’ start,
and reached the post in 34min. 22sec. The
State champion over all distances from the
furlong to the half-mile, J. W. Lawrence, put
up a record for the event with 25min. 43sec.
* # * *
“Splash”: The Queensland swimming
authorities may invite a team of Japanese
to visit the Sfate in 1932. Two suggested
are Toguwa Iriye, a backstroke expert and
holder of the world’s record for the 200 and
400 metres, and Syoso Makino, whose times
from 200 to 1500 metres have bettered Arne
Borg’s figures. The Queensland representa-
tives would be strengthened by such south-
ern cracks as Noel Ryan.
* * * *
“Pluon”: Tasmania has just wound up
its annual bowling orgy, and is now facing
the morning after. This year’s championships
were held at Hobart, and proved a good
thing for Launceston. The singles champion-
ship was won by J. V. Donnelly, and the
doubles by S. French and S. Bennell, all of
Launceston clubs. The rinks title also went
to the North, mostly Launceston players.
H* Hi ❖ ❖
“Gate”: Both the N.'S.W. Rugby codes
are getting ready for the football season,
which promises to be a depressed one. The
Union and League alike are cutting out the
country week on account of expense, and
the Union is even talking of dropping the
Queensland matches. It will be a pity in many
ways if this is done, for the Queensland
Union lias at last been successful in acquir-
ing a good ground, and the Brisbane gates
will be all the better for it. It is close on
50 years since these matches were inaugu-
rated, and the series should be kept alive.
An alternative to dropping the fixture would
lie to have only one trip per season, playing
alternately in Brisbane and Sydney, as was
done prior to 1900.
* * * ■ *
“Don Crew”: Frank Smith, junior, jolted
the world’s snooker record badly when he
made a break of 127 at the Australia, Syd-
ney, on Feb. 19. His opponent broke the
balls but took no further part in the game,
Smith potting all the cherries and every
colored ball with the exception of the black.
Fourteen reds, 10 blacks, 3 pinks, 1 blue and
the colors in rotation made up the total.
Joe Davis, with a break of 104, was the
previous record-holder.


.Undei*
/Royal
5r>H
tohm:
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
IQS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
C HAM PACK®
'^3rlpslleidsicuv
HEIMS
***.» fe.l s*■***
“ MERCURY ” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
r
%
\ f/
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BBNGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Breast fed.
The healthiest, strongest
children are reared this way.
But as soon as feeding begins
to overtire, mothers should
partially feed with Benger’s
Food. Nursing mothers should
also take Benger’s.
Tl»vm savm ■p* a 'S
pooj
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
A
**»
' •nUiiii 1
! Ujjj
/n'. .„ • • ..••■• ■ l
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast
Double Room and Breakfast
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
When Norman Macleod was smitten with
pneumonic ’flu in the epidemic of 1919. and
The Bulletin lost an amiable business
manager, he left two daughters and a son.
Esner, the elder of these girls, had a twenty-
first birthday party on Friday, the 13th, and
there was a big gathering at Quambi. Mother
(a daughter of that vigorous old-time
Minister for Works, E. W. O’Sullivan) .gave
her a necklet of topaz 200 years old with a
ring to match.
, The new matron of St. Luke’s hospital
will need no introduction to its wards and
theatres. She has been a sister on its nurs-
ing staff for the past eight years, and for
three of them sub-matron. Since last Novem-
ber, when Matron Taylor resigned to marry
Mr. Archie Gibson, of Newcastle, she. has
been acting-matron. Miss Sheerman is. a
trainee of the Sydney Hospital, and dimng
the war was attached to the Garrison Hos-
pital at Victoria Barracks.
The small visitor last Christmas informed
the household that when the Bridge was ready
for use Dr. Bradfield would send a dog
running across it to see if it was safe for
traffic. She added a hope that, if no other
dog had been nominated for the honor, the
doctor would let Pat, her Pekinese, do the
job. However, Dr. Bradfield made the journey
himself the other morning in company with
Minister for Works Davidson, and con-
struction-engineer Lawrence Ennis. So far,
of course, only the steelwork of the deck
binds the opposite shores of the harbor, but
probably before the trams, trains and buses
start surging across the bridge the trial by
dog will be gone through. The first woman
pedestrian over the bridge was Mrs. Law-
rence Ennis. She went up by the lilt, at
Dawes Point and crossed to the north side,
where a bouquet of diva size was thrust upon
her by members of the staff.
Before Belgium’s Consul Segaert takes wife
and daughter Sophie back to their native
land for nearly a year’s visit he will pro-
duce Molifere’s “Femmes Savantes in aid of
the Belgian Benevolent Society. Sophie will
play the leading part, and the Playbox on
February 26 and 27 will harbor the per-
formance.
A bridge party in aid of the Lord Mayor 3
fund for Maoriland relief is being organ-
ised by the Macquarie Book Club, and is to
be held at the club rooms, 201 Macquane-
street, on Tuesday, March 3. Tables may be
booked by ringing 8W6791.
Looking down the harbor ways from a
balcony above Neutral Boy, this Letter was
struck once again with the thought of the
pictorial result that could be achieved by
yachts furnished with colored sails. Picture
the effect, between a burning sapphire sky
and a burning sapphire wave, of spreading
sails of Tyrian purple, of amethystine red,
of daffodil yellow! The yachtsmen round
about Wellington (M.L.) Harbor have learned
this lesson of color, and the little bays on
the way to Muratai are gay with many-
hued wings.
Nero fiddled while Rome burned, so, un-
deterred by the burning questions of the day,
the Conservatorium String Quartette have
listed six chamber-music recitals for 1931.
The opening programme, on the 18th of March,
will include works by Beethoven, Frank
Bridge and Brahms, interpreted by Gerald
Walenn, Lloyd Davies, Alfred Hill and Glad-
stone Bell. Laurence Godfrey Smith will
be at the piano.
The women writers of this city are sure
of at least one party every year. It is a
time-honored custom for every incoming
mayoress to brew tea in their honor, serving
the same with music and sandwiches of the
first order. Duly, therefore, Mrs. Jackson
bade the ladies of the press to her civic
drawing-room, and therein they gathered in
full strength; but, alas! in only outward-
seeming gaiety. With all the changes going
on in the newspaper world, .no woman
knoweth when she may be sacrificed in the
cause of “overhead.” Even the lucky she
who has a contract in the pocket of her
jeans is apprehensive, not only for her own
sex, but for the men who this week or next
week may find dismissal slips in their pay
envelopes. However, the girls could still heed
the note of romance, and listened when their
hostess told of the friendship between her
and her husband which started in childhood
days. And if that’s not a good foundation
for matrimony, what is?
Women painters crowded into the Double
Bay trams the other afternoon when their
president, Mrs. Mary Irvine, declared the
Brush and Palette season open by a party
at her house in Manning-road. The house,
it will be remembered, was bequeathed to
Mrs. Irvine, together with its collection of
rare china and pictures. These the guests —
there were over 60, and actually four men
among them —viewed and murmured over,
but nobody asked to view the old-fashioned
stone cellar. Jimmy Macdonald, of the
National Gallery, disported among the gentle
artists, and Theo Cowan and Mrs. McNally
were among the smartly-hatted, while Mrs.
Bowring, from Maoriland, was sympatheti-
cally questioned as to earthquake zones.
In spite of the burning heat of last
Friday autumn is with us. Nature makes
no mistakes, and she has set amaranthus
and .tawny wine-steeped dahlias in Cen-
tennial Park for a sign. In company with
half the city (or so it seemed) this Letter
last Sunday visited the yellow and pink
and white phlox, the petunias, the satiny
waxen begonias, the flaunting cannas, the
sleepy-headed dahlias. Set about a sun-
splashed lawn the flower-beds were like a
gay design on a grass-green carpet. A
breeze with a splinter of ice in it rustled
along the palmy drives. On the inner track
girls cantered past on roan or chestnut
mounts.
If the sunny-natured David McKee Wright
had a grievance it was that so little had
been done by medicine to clear the human
system of rheumatism. But if David will
take the next cloud travelling to Pimlico,
in London, and get off at Humanity Clinic,
he will find prisoned sunlight blinking and
streaming from benevolent lamps, from
machines that look at first glance rather
like gramophones, and he will see sufferers
relieved almost as though by a miracle. It
was here that the just-back-in-Sydney Dr.
Herrick Knowles spent most of his time in
London. The clinic is an old factory re-
modelled. Here specialists in every branch
of medicine work (as all the world over) a
good deal for the love of God, for the clinic
is divided into public and private departments.
Any doubts of the popularity of the Inde-
pendent Players are dispelled by a visit to
the Savoy on one of their first nights. Last
Saturday, Doris Fitton’s group put on “The
Silver Cord” very creditably, with good-
looking Alathea Siddons as the selfish mother
who wants to keep her sons tied to her
apron-strings. Doris Fitton, as the brainful,
forceful daughter-in-law, showed she knew a
bit about lounge-suits as well as biology, and
in her big scene flashed a vision in shell-
pink and gold lace topped by a green satin
coat of luscious hue. Other notable happen-
ings were a green organdie dress that flitted
up and down the aisles like a bushland
moth, guiding newcomers to their places.
The Savoy was crowded. Everybody was
well dressed. The only fault was a slight
monotony in the players’ voices.
The musicianly Dr. Keith Barry has been
seriously ill; he has only just left hospital
after many weeks in bed. So he has sold his
practice at Dee Why and gone to loaf in the
country air for some months. Old war
strain is part of the trouble; he had a year
in hospital during Armageddon. Gerald
Peachell, the Philharmonic conductor, who
came out from England three years ago and is
a nephew of the late Sir Frederick Bridge, of
Westminster Abbey, is Keith’s locum tenens
at the organ at Mosman Presbyterian
Church. It is the first job of that descrip-
tion he has held in Australia, he having
refused many offers since his arrival.
Sophie Segaert, younger daughter of the
Belgian Consul, will take one of the leading
parts in “Les Femmes Savantes,” a Moliere
comedy which her clever father is producing
for the Belgian benevolent fund. The play
is a sparkling
satire on ped-
ants and- blue
stockings, but
one wonders
how Moliere
would deal
with a bright
young person
of to-day who
had her M.A.
degree in her
pocket and
could herself
write a toler-
able comedy
of manners, if
put to it. How-
ever, the
women in the
household of
the good citi-
zen Chrysale
are not mod-
er n, and
Philaminte, his wife, is more of a poetaster
than a poetess; so it is but natural that
the old man should set himself against
acquiring a soulful and learned son-in-law.
How his native wit solves the problem makes
a good deal of the fun. The Playbox to-
morrow (Thursday) and Friday at eight
o’clock.
The Mosman home of Dr. and Mrs. Earle
Page was the centre of congratulations the
other night after Mavis Pollack, of Cremorne,
had become Mrs. Ronald Denovan. Ronald
is the only son of the Alex. Denovans, of
Rushcutter Bay, and Mavis’s father was
the late A. J. Pollack, M.L.A. Alexis Albert,
as best man, and Basil Hallam, as grooms-
man, supplied the male escort for ’maids
Viola Pollack and Catherine Ainsworth who
looked cool as water-lilies in pale green laces
sashed with velvet. Bride’s sister Phyllis, m
sea-blue chiffons and a cherry hat, and
’groom’s mother, Mrs. Alex. Denovan, did
the honors.
Another bride of last week was Helen
Vaughan, one of Neutral Bay’s well-known
good-lookers. Her vows were made in St.
Thomas’s Church, North Sydney, and later,
as Mrs. Gilbert E. Cory, she stood up against
a bombardment of good wishes at Menvalc,
the T. W. Bremner home at Neutral Bay.
Mrs. Maclurcan, all credit to her, is giving
the Wentworth Cafe for the ball being organ-
ised to swell the Lud Mayor’s fund for the
relief of the Maoriland disaster. The organ-
isers have his State Ex.’s promise to be
present. Frances Scully’s ballet is arranging
charming numbers, and Jim Donleavy’s band
will decant the jazz. The date is March 7.
Everybody concerned is sorry that one of
the results of Sydney Hospital Auxiliary's
forced economy is the dispensing with secre-
tary Miss Rowsell’s labors. The work will
be done by an honorary secretary; Mrs. R. T.
Ball, who for three years has been treasurer,
will take on the arduous duties. The auxiliary
had Chief Justice Street’s lady to preside
at its annual meeting, which filled the
boardroom with summery-patterned chiffons
and crepe de Chines. During the after-
noon it was revealed that the auxiliary
had not only supplied the hospital
with 1000 garments, but had a credit bal-
ance of £l5l. Philip Street’s lady was
laudatory, as was Mayoress Jackson. Lady
Game was re-elected patroness, and _ Mrs.
Alfred Winn is once more the president.
Daughter Heather, an ag£ive member of the
auxiliary’s younger set, who is about to be
married, was handed a rose-bowl of great
dimensions and many good wishes.
The wife of
Brigadier-
General Wis-
dom, Adminis-
trator of New
Guinea, is the
subject of this
Falk picture.
The couple are
in Sydney on
a holiday and
52 Macleay-
street is their
address. Mrs.
Wisdom is
popular, at-
tr a c tive, a
good dresseer
and a better
hostess.
Sydney is to
lose her Rad-
cliffe Brown,
the tall, slender professor of anthropology who
has graced her ballrooms and, in the De
Chair reign, so many Government House
parties. In spite of 'his violent prejudices
in favor of modern art, Radcliffe is a gentle
soul, very popular with the undergrads.
He goes to an appointment in America.
Roland Foster is very active these days in
the formation of his “Rainbow Choir” of
ladies’ voices. He explains it is so styled
because the colors of the spectrum in the
realm of light correspond with the notes of
the musical scale in the realm of sound. By
the use of a specially-designed costume and
appropriate stage setting it is intended to
please the eye as well as the ear. Madame
Emily Marks, who is president of the execu-
tive committee, will co-operate with Roland
in the artistic direction. Mr. Foster is con-
ducting the new enterprise, and Stella Pin-
combe, of 23 Hunter-street, is the secretary.
A letter from Queensland :
Sir John Goodwin attended the February meeting
of the Q.T.C., and Lady Goodwin (in rose cendree)
came out during the afternoon. The v.-r.’s had tea
on the committee-room verandah, and the dazzlingly
green lawns backgrounded many pretty summer
frocks. Mrs. W, G. Crothers had a party of guests
to tea, among them Mrs. D’Arcy Winten, Mrs.
Meynick (in mastic), Mrs. T. P. Crothers (wearing
cyclamen pink), and Eleanor Peachey. Mrs. J. H.
S. Barnes, of Canning Downs, chose navy pin-spot;
Mrs. E. D. White, of Bluff Downs, matrix green ; Mrs.
Nagel, of Charleville, bottle green; and Mrs. Guy
Atherton, of Warwick, pin-spot old rose —Mrs. Lance
Giddings, of Sydney, wearing lettuce-green, came
with her.
St. Paul’s, at Vulture-street, South Brisbane, saw
the wedding of Robert F. Lee-Bryce, only son of
the late W. M. Lee-Bryce, of Thursday Island, and
Kathleen Alder. The bride, who was given away by
her father, was in parchment satin and a veil of
hand-made lace. Beryl Lee-Bryce, in blue and silver,
’maided. The reception was at Ilayes-Barton.
Mrs. de Witt Batty, wife of the new Bishop of
Newcastle, was farewelled by the wives of the Bris-
bane clergy, amidst a riot of roses and zinnias, at
Westminster private hotel. The guest of honor, in
autumn tints, with a coat of cinnamon, received a
bunch of roses and a silver-mounted crocodile-skin
handbag, Mrs. H. H. Dixon making the presentation.
Lady Goodwin attended the annual meeting of the
metropolitan branch of the C.W.A. in the Mayoress’s
reception-room at the City Hall, and heard Mayor
Jolly congratulate the members on a splendid year’s
work. Archbishop Duhig said that there had never
been a finer effort in service. Archbishop Sharp
moved the adoption of the treasurer’s statement,
and Mr. Charles Taylor advised all women to wear
cashmere stockings, to help the wool industry. Mrs.
Peterson continues in the presidency, Mrs. W. C.
Carmody is hon. treasurer and Adeline Power
hon. sec.
Lilian Cannan, of Chelmer, has announced her
engagement to G. E. Bain, of Rangoon. The bride-
to-be is just returning from a year’s visit to friends
in Burma and India.
Kitty Miller was married to Hugh J. Gilroy at
St. Joseph’s, Corinda. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in ivory mariette with
Chantilly lace; her Brussels net veil was mounted
on pink tulle; tuberoses and stephanotis made the
bouquet. Cecile Hives ’maided in floral autumn-
tinted georgette and Verona-brown hat. Glen Alva,
Oxley, saw the feasting.
J. P. B. Webster gave a dinner at Lennon’s before
leaving for the Cold Country. The Premier and
Mrs. Moore were amongst the guests, also Attorney-
General and Mrs. Macgroarty, the E. A. Athertons,
H. E. Sizers, Colonel and Mrs. Evans and daughter
Barbara and the E. T. Reals.
A travelling trunk, rug and cushion were
presented to Mr. and Mrs. D. Harvey at a farewell
function held in Ascot school, and a tribute was paid
to them by headmaster Henderson. On a barren ridge,
in 1920, the school was opened. A swamp lay
below the ridge and the committee and helpers used
to meet on moonlit nights and at week-ends to
transform the grounds to their present beauty. Mr.
and Mrs. Harvey were members of the original com-
mittee. They are off on a holiday trip to England.
Douglas Underwood took to wife Beryl Macdonald
in St. John’s Cathedral. Mackay Sim gave away the
bride, who was in white satin with Honiton-lace veil.
Madge Macdonald ’maided in orchid mauve, her
sister Joan wearing daffodil. The Moreton Club,
adorned with zinnias and roses, saw the reception.
The ’moon is a motor tour in the South.
A few pars, from Westralia: —
Among noticeable feminine figures at the February
meeting at headquarters were Helen and Lesley
Vincent, who wear their fair hair in long bobs
curling above their hat brims. Lesley’s frock was of
printed foulard and Helen’s cleverly-cut black had a
spoke-stitched V of flesh-pink inserted into the back.
Margaret Paton, in cowslip-yellow, accompanied Betty
Ambrose, in beige linen, and pretty Cecelia Brennan,
who wore a beret with her pin-spotted black frock.
Mollie Taylor’s sand-dune ensemble had an un-
expected contrast of a royal-blue blouse. Daffodil
flutterings went with Mrs. Eustace Cohen’s black
romaine; Mrs. Bill Broadhurst wore green; and Mrs.
Langlois Lefroy’s beige lace over shell-pink matched
a Iringed sunshade. Topsy Hyem’s tobacco-brown
coat protected her dappled chiffons. Violet Vincent
chose green for frock and hat; Mrs. Doy Forrest s
black raiment included a swathed three-quarter coat
of lace and georgette. Mrs. Fred Hammond, in
white embroidered with colored wools, accompanied
Mrs. John Barrett, who wore shell-pink and a
pleased smile over her husband’s lucky ticket on
Peithara ( £23 13s. for a 10s. place). Mrs. Mon-
teath wore cornflower-blue chiffons; Mrs. Am-
brose Cummings chose a two-piece suit of flecked
white and yellow; and Mollie Mahood topped her
foulard with cherry-red millinery.
Mrs. R. C. Jordan, better known as Pat Evans,
got a joyful surprise recently when she picked up
a newspaper and found her husband’s name placed
fourth among 300 competitors in the R.A.F. exam,
in London. The first 10 names on the list entitle
their owners to a two years’ special engineering
course. Mrs. Jordan returns to the Cold Country
in June.
Gladys Pendred and Athole Clifton baked a cake
and boiled a kettle and broadcast invitations for
everyone interested in the Free Kindergartens to
come and hear the aims of the Union. An associa-
tion was formed of 30 voluntary helpers, many of
whom are trained kindergarteners. There is a satis-
factory batch of new students and seven residents
at the college, so 1931 opens hopefully for the wee
ones and their sponsors.
Noreen, only daughter of the W. W, Rileys, of
Mount Lawley, has become affianced to Phil, eldest
son of ex-Premier Phil and Mrs. Collier. Noreen is
a clever pianist.
The Loreto Sisters have opened a third branch
in this State. The new convent at Nedlands will
eventually provide accommodation for boarders and
University students. Old Girls joined forces and
held a pantry tea, so the grocer’s bill to start
with will be one of the least fearsome.
The Automobile Club made a success of still
another bridge party. Mrs. Louis Joubert, wearing
black satin, welcomed members and their friends
among palms and dahlias. Mesdames Schultz and
Spencer, Miss King and Mr. F. Carter all managed
to take home prizes.
Mrs. Keith Johnson, after installing her pair of
young hopefuls at school in Kalamunda, went back
to her home in Singapore after over a year in Perth.
And a line or two from Darwin:
Evelyn Hardy, only daughter of H. Hardy, of
Annaburroo, Burrundi, announces her engagement to
Dr. David Brown, of Katherine, second son of Mr.
and Mrs. D. J. Brown, of Berrima (N.S.W.).
Pat Keeghan, who has been transferred from the
E., S. and A. Bank, Darwin, to Townsville, has had
a round of farewells from various social and sporting
bodies, in view of his impending departure and
early marriage to Eileen Noonan. The wedding tako
place at Townsville. ,
The Rev. S. Jarvis, who has been stationed m
Darwin for seven years, has been transferred at
his own request to Adelaide. He was farewelled
by his Methodist parishioners and presented with a
cheque and an illuminated address. The Rev. H.
Shelton takes his place in March next.


VALUE SUPREME
at 8/11
ill!
1
sn
Smartest loveliness...
hard-wearing service . . . economy . . . all the
essentials keenly-discriminating women desire
are found in No. 860 Lustre Full Fashioned
Hosiery.
Shaped perfectly . . . knitted so evenly ... fit as
smoothly as a glove with never a hint of a wrinkle.
These stockings have pure silk legs . . . ‘Vee-point’*
Heel and the finest lisle reinforcing at toes, heels and
tops .. . only 8/11 at your favourite smart store.
ILUSYICE
FULL FASHIONED
HOSIERY
No. 860.
Registered.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
„„„ ■, .. w i x.
We read that the Prince of Wales, when
morning draughts at the Hom-
burg Springs, dazzled beholders with an
amazing costume. It was made apparently
out of snuff-colored blanket, delicately set off
by a red silk handkerchief tied round his
neck so as to show above the collar a thin
red hne. The striking costume was based
° n tan leather shoes and crowned by a light
Tyrolean hat. A white Pomeranian dog fol-
l°we(l at fils heels.” [l7/12/’B7.]
,
A good many years ago a man named
Thomson was on his wedding trip when the
train concussed into some cattle trucks, and
when he revived he found that his bride was
only an unpleasant smash and of no further
use to anybody. He got £5OOO for this, and
in a state of exuberance he went and told his
friend Jobling, who was almost in his second
childhood, that he had made a pile out of
the Gov’ment. Jobling hardly got the hang
of the circumstances, but he acquired a vague
idea that if you took a woman on a railway
she was sure to be killed. He took her on
a wedding trip of 500 miles, but at the end
of the excursion she was still alive and toler-
ably fresh. Then he hauled the bleating
fossil into a return train, and they did
another 500 miles back again, which nearly
killed the bride with fatigue, but did her
no further injury. After this Jobling skimmed
round until he found
a driver who was
starting on a
long journey in a
hideous state of in-
toxication, and by
dint of towing his
distracted wife
through the streets
at a gallop he got
her on board in time
to take her chance,
but except for the
untimely death of a
cow nothing hap-
pened. For nine
long years after this
the old man spent
his assets in railway
fares, and grew more
and more like a mad-
dened hysena every
time, and at last in
despair he abandon-
ed his immortal wife
and fled to a foreign
land. At least he
started to fly, but be-
fore he had travelled
many miles the train
fell through a bridge,
and all that was left
of Jobling was a
mess at the bottom
of a gently-flowing
stream. Mrs. Job-
ling got a verdict for
£6OOO damages, and
one of the jurymen,
who gave her this
award a muddled
old patriarch named
Cowman proposed
to her next day and
got married the same
week. But the Gov-
ernment moved for a
new trial and got the
verdict quashed, and
then Cowman was so
mad at finding him-
self tied to a bag of
bones old enough to
be his uncle’s grand-
mother that lie went and blew out his
brains. Mrs. (Cowman got his farm and the
£2OOO for which he was assured and a lot
of other accumulations, and has lived happily
ever since. Which all goes to show that there
is money to be made out of railway accidents
if you only know how to go about it.
When a new Czar of Russia is proclaimed
the masses are promptly summoned to the
nearest police station for the purpose of
taking the oath of allegiance. As soon as
swearing-time has elapsed the police start
on a house-to-house inquiry, and any person
found trying to dodge his duty is served with
a blue notice-papex-, commanding payment
of oath arrears within 24 hours. The
penalty of disobedience is a prosecution for
treason. Invalids, who can’t take up their
beds and walk to the station, are made loyal
on the premises by a vigilant inspector; and
in cases where the subject happens to be
dying and unable to articulate, the inspector
seizes the cold, limp arm of the defaulting
party and swears him or her in by proxy.
Arrangements for obtaining an all-round
allegiance are thoroughly Russian in their
completeness. People are vaccinated, so to
speak, with loyalty to the new Czar, and
get no chance to plead hereafter that they
didn’t “take.” [2/l/’92.]
A Jubilee yarn. One of the first things
Queen Victoria did on hearing that William
IV. was dead and that she had succeeded to
the throne was to call one of her mother's
ladies-in-waiting. “Am I really Queen?”
asked the excited princess. “You are, indeed,
Madam,” replied the lady-in-waiting. “And
I can do what I choose, by right?” con-
tinued Victoria. “Certainly, your Majesty.”
“Then get me a cup of green tea. Mamma
never would let me have it; now I mean to
know what harm it can do me.” And the
young Queen drank thi-ee cups, had a violent.,
fit of shivers,-and has never liked tea since.
There was a “dook” on board one of the
Pacific mail steamers on a recent voyage—
at least his fellow-passengers took him for
one, which was all the same; he had lots
of money, and, -judging from the airs he
gave himself, he might have been enough
dukes to fill a cattle-truck. The weather was
burning hot, the ice supply gave out, and
the passengers all wailed, but the Duke
wailed the loudest of them all, and went
about with his tongue hanging out like a
dog in the mosquito season. Presently, how-
ever, a thin fellow-passenger sidled up to
him and said through his nose: “Look here
I know where there’s some ice. Now if I keep
you in ice will you keep me in brandy?
That’s a fair deal, ain’t it?” The aristocrat
jumped at the offer at once, and for three
days he and his friend revelled in cold drinks
to the exclusion of their parched fellow-
passengers, and then the supply of the cool-
ing medium again failed. “Can’t you raise
a little more?” said the Duke plaintively on
the fourth day. “Well,” said his friend, “I
might, but I don’t like to. You see, if I take
away any more my cousin won’t keep.”
A LITTLE DEARER THAN HIS HORSE—By Phil May.
“I see on your sign outside, ‘Accommodation for man and beast.’
Let me have a room for myself and wife.” [23/6/’88.]
ME AND BILL.
I sit beside the crackling fire and watch its
cheery blaze,
And catch within its glowing depths a
glimpse of other days ;
1 hear the crack of teamsters’ whips resound-
ing up the hill,
And see again the ugly face of my old
pardner Bill.
1 see his long, ungainly form, his brown neck
hard and bare,
His kindly eyes, his gaping mouth, his coarse
and matted hair;
I hear again his ghostly laugh and watch
his genial grin,
And feel his hard and knotted paw a-grasp-
mg of my fin.
And visions of the long ago come surging
through my brain;
I feel the horse between my knees and see
the stretching plain;
I hear the thundering crash of hoofs, and
feel once more the thrill
That ran like fire throughout my veins when
drovin’ ’long with Bill.
I feel the fresh breeze playing round my thin
and withered cheek,
And Bill’s long stockwhip cracking (he could
almost make it speak) ;
And I hear the cattle lowing, and I feel
the headlong rush
As I felt it in the old days with the fellers
in the bush.
And I see the camp-fire blazing ’neath the
overhanging trees,
And the boys a-spinning differs to the sigh-
ing of the breeze;
Whilst high above the others, like a curlew’s,
clear and shrill,
I can hear the piercing accents of my brave
old pardner Bill.
But my hands have grown unsteady and my
sight is getting dim,
And I think I have rheumatics near in every
blessed limb,
And I know that in the saddle now I’d cut
a pretty shine;
But as every dog his day has, so has every
man his 'time,
And I think the only horses that I’ll ride
on any more
AVill be those I find in glory when I reach
the other shore ;
And I don’t know much about it—no, I
don’t know much, but still
I bet there ain’t a horse there that can
throw my pardner Bill.
, , . ~ ... . . ,
« an o dhulk W £ t the?e mbleS ’
”%s’ d ay sr«UiatK; m, ' Mte he ’ d
And I never knew him beaten, though for
~, twenty years and three
We have rode and droved together like two
brothers, him and me.
But now he’s mustered horses and is on the
other side
A-teaching of the angels how a stockman
ought to ride •
And w here he has gone I'm goin’, for I'll
Vm Araftin/ heavenly cattle in the plains
' '
QUEENSLAND.
W. CROMPTON.
THE TWO MACKS.
McCarthy was sitting in the sun on the
big log by their bark hut; he had a large
iron bucket between his knees and was
moodily peeling potatoes with a jack-knife.
The two Macks always “barked the spuds”
on Sundays. The plum-duff was boiling
leisurely in a nail-keg on the open-air fire.
Inside, Mackenzie superintended the roasting
of the leg of mutton, and the chant of the
camp-oven mingled with the drone of the
locusts in the still, tall trees, and made the
old hut seem wonderfuly home-like.
The two Macks were the best “batchers”
in the district; they were as neat and as
cai-eful of things as two old women, and
their hut was always trim and tidy. No
salmon-tins littered the ground about their
stringybark home. Tinned fish is the lazy,
shiftless man’s grub. The two Macks cooked
regularly and fared well.
They had been true mates for 20-odd
years, in luck and out, in sickness and in
health, and had been better friends than
brothers. Their mateship had, after two
years, become a synonym at Keep-it-Dark
for straight-going, square-dealing and real
grit.
McCarthy was about 50, short, grizzled,
burnt and silent; Mackenzie was three or
four years his junior—tall, spare, hard,
healthy, and also silent. These two men,
each of whom had more than once during
their long friendship proved his readiness to
lay down life for the other, scarcely ex-
changed a dozen words in a week.
But of late a coolness had been noticed
between Jack Mack and Harry Mack.
McCarthy had deliberately turned his back
when Mackenzie came on Saturday night
into Grafton’s bar, he had scornfully' refused
Harry’s assistance when going home “with
his load,” and had walked off the tramline
into the creek in consequence thereof; more-
over, he had neglected to take Mackenzie hot
crib when the latter was on afternoon shift
and he day shift at the Morning Star.
Iveep-it-I)ark remarked this and wondered.
Dick Howard had it in his mind as he
perched on the other end of the log, chipping
at his plug and eyeing Jacky Mack bent
sulkily over his spuds.
“Don’t seem very gay this mornin’, Jack,”
he said.
McCai-thy viciously gouged the eye out of a
potato, and replied with a grunt.
“M’be you’n Harry Mack don’t hit it off
as sweet as yeh might, eh?”
“He ain’t what I took him fer,” said
Jack mournfully.
“Es how?” queried Dick.
Mackenzie now appeared outside the hut,
and began gathering chips into his hat.
“I bin a good mate t’ that feller,” said
Jack, impressively, pointing his knife at
him, “more’n 24 year, an’ now he’s goin’ back
on me after all I done fer him.”
Harry Mack looked painfully guilty, and
clutching his hat fled under cover again.
“Bin robbin’ yeh?” suggested curious Dick,
shifting nearer and sinking his voice to a
whisper.
Jack thought it over a few minutes in his
slow way, and he replied in the negative,
with a heavy contempt for the insinuation.
“He ain’t actin’ the clean pertater by me,
that’s all,” he added. “He can’t say I
ain’t bin a true mate,” he continued with
sudden energy. “At Eaglehawk there I
nursed him through the fever an’ shakes,
an’ he had a bad hand at Frying-pan. I
did all the cookin’ an’ washin’-up fer a
month. He’s bin comfortable 'all the time,
an’ ain’t wanted fer nothin’, an’ now he
goes an’ turns dog.” Jack looked down like
a martyr, and the hand holding the potato
trembled visibly.
“Yeh ain’t tellin’ how, I s’pose,” in-
sinuated Howard.
“Know that widder up the hill what sells
the milk?” continued McCarthy. “Great,
ain’t she?”
“Well, medium,” answered Howard dubi-
ously.
“7 think she’s great,” said Jack decisively.
“Anyhow, I s’pose you’ve noticed Harry
liangin’ round there. I don’t blame him fer
that —I ain’t unreasonable. I’ve bin shook
on ’em meself in my time, an’, above all, I
ain’t unreasonable. But Ido think it dirty
mean to go back on a mate what’s stood by
yeh fer over 20 year. An’ what sorter trick
d’ye think that Harry Mack’s playin’ me?
He’s goin’ ter git married— goin’ ter git mar
ried!”
Dick whistled for sheer amazement; Jack,
the wronged mate, groaned and cursed over
his potatoes; and Harry, standing in the
doorway, shamefaced, plucked at his shirt
buttons, the very picture of conscious guilt.
“GOIN’ TER GIT MARRIED !” repeated
Jack. “There’s a discontented beggar fer
yeh!”
EDWARD DYSON.


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHI E F THEATRES.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: LILAC TIME.
CRITERION : ON THE SPOT.
|. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SONS O’ GUNS.
COMEDY THEATRE: MARY ROSE
Missing Friends.
TO CYRIL ALEXANDER HARLAN also known as
ALAN GLASS formerly of Kerang in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown Carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE EMMA
HARLAN has commenced proceedings in the Supreme
Court of Victoria for divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court in Melbourne within
thirty days from the insertion of this advertisement
the case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to'pay costs. ' ir
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. > t>.
POWER, of the Titles Office, Melbourne, Public
Solicitor for Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
RETTKE. —Would ERNST FREIDRICH
(FRED) RETTKE, or. anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
his sister, Mrs. A. HEINZEE, or the Trus-
tees of the late H. Iv. HEYM, Parrakie,
South Australia.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required of the present
1 address of DAVID HEPBURN, who
belonged to Dunning, Perthshire. Will any-
one who knows of his address please com-
municate with KIPPEN, CAMPBELL AND
BURT. Solicitors, Perth, Scotland; or T. W.
GARRETT, CHRISTIE & BERNE, Solici-
tors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney..
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
Bacon and Bread Slicing Machines.
MODELS FROM 50/-
MEBCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
VOUR Advertisement in the “Barrier
1 Miner” is read by the people who
receive over £lB,OOO a week in hard
cash as wages.
What about that these times?
And your advertisement is read by all
the settlers west of the Darling River
in the Only Newspaper that most ot
them ever see, over there in the Wealthy
West.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
prick
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to hnov>■
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
“Lakes Entrance: 201 miles east of Melbourne.
Surf and still-water bathing. Launch excursions.
Fishing: snapper, bream, luderick and whiting fre-
quently obtainable. There is an up-to-date private
camping park with a caretaker in personal attend-
ance.”
So saith the guide-book. It might have
added: “Local industries: Two midget-golf
courses and more projected.” Hoesn’t sound
very dramatic, but drama is met with in un-
expected places. This Page got its first
hint of it when it drove into the town past
a notice cordially inviting all and sundry to
“Inspect Australia's First Oilfield.”
Except for that notice, however, Lakes
Entrance doesn’t talk about its oil, although,
if approached upon the subject, it will
scratch diagrams in the sand with its big
toe and offer some remarks, mainly deroga-
tory. Still, the inhabitants will take you to
a water tap and turn it on and apply a
match to show you how the town is built
on gas and oil deposits. For, instead of
water coming out, gas emerges. What is
more, it burns with a clear bright flame, like
a Bunsen burner, for fully half a minute.
At least, it doesn’t this time, though it
did the last time your acquaintance tried
the experiment.
If you are not depressed by this convinc-
ing proof that there is no oil in Australia
and never will be, you go up a beautiful
bush track past turpentines and boxes and
banksias and notices informing you that
here lies the Lease of the Plaza Toro Oil
Co., No Liability, Inspection Invited. Hands
point the way and you come to a deserted
rig, a towering derrick and long trays on
which are laid labelled cylinders of clay,
like casts of a gigantic earthworm. The plot
thickens. There has been boring, but they’ve
struck water or rock or something and are
off to another locality, or looking for more
shareholders to supply more capital.
Following more pointing hands, hammered
on gum-trees, you carry on up the bush
track to a magnificent view of the North
Arm and a string of lakes studded with
islands and separated from the dimly-heard
Southern Ocean by a narrow dyke of sand.
Here you come to another abandoned oil-
well. You go on and come on another clear-
ing in the forest.
Here there is something doing. A couple
of men, one of them an abo. and both
looking as interested in their job as “Han-
sard” reporters, are directing a steel cable
that an asthmatic engine is lowering into a
hole about six inches in diameter. The wire
goes down an incredible distance —1250 feet,
to be precise—and then starts to come up
again. A long steel barrel appears upon the
end of it. The barrel is guided to a gutter—
suppressed excitement amongst the spec-
tators. A thin stream of whitish Mother
Earth pours out of it down into the bracken,
whence it spreads down the hill to the annoy-
ance of the young wattles. The manager
or boremaster stands by. He turns out to
be Mr. Sanders, whose brother was one time
on the Bulletin staff in Sydney—how
small the world is! He has sunk artesian
bores all over Australia. He brought his
plant per motor-lorry 1000 miles from the
backblocks of N. S. Wales —in itself an
engineering feat of no small order. Has he
struck oil? He
has. There it
is, looking like
the stuff that
comes out of
your crank-
case after
3000 miles of
running; but
the dinkum
oil, neverthe-
less. Mr. San-
ders has a
kero.-tin full
of it and in-
vites you to
feel it. Whe-
ther it is down
below in com-
mercial quan-
tities will be
Revealed in the
next 18 feet of
boring. After
“Local industries: two
midget-golf courses.”
that the bore may strike granite —the ceiling
of the underworld —and when he reaches that
it is no use going further —not in that spot,
at any rate.
The oilseekers in that clearing are look-
ing less like “Hansard” reporters than pre-
viously. News has just arrived that the S.
Australian Co. has struck the stuff in real
paying quantities a mile or so further west-
ward. But alas! . Such rumors arrive almost
daily. , , .. .
Another hundred yards> or so and there is
another rig of another company, the sheds
and offices abandoned and the rusting mach-
inery looking as forlorn as only machinery
can look when it has lost the reason for its
existence. Still further up there is another
rig where two men are working with the air
of expecting anything or nothing. You need
whips of patience when seeking for some-
thing, you are not sure what, 1000 feet, 8000
feet, perhaps two miles beneath the uncom-
municative landscape. Imagination also! If
anything goes wrong down there you have
got to go down the shaft mentally, so to
speak, and diagnose the complaint from past
experience, if you have had it. It is as if
you were crawling down a burrow uncer-
tain whether there was a rabbit' or a tiger-
snake at the bottom. If a tool is broken you
have to fish round in the dark for it with
steel fingers perhaps as long as Smith-street,
Collingwood. The bottom of the bore may
have to be cemented. If necessary, it can
actually be photographed. A plug may have
to be put down to stop a flow of water. At
the next bore they have had to put down
such a plug, and gas blew it up until it
jambed 400 feet blow the surface. They
are drilling the plug out now with a Gar-
gantuan brace and bit and some profanity.
It takes hours merely to screw the long
steel stems of the instrument together until
the tool reaches the obstruction.
_ In these circumstances Australian inven-
tiveness has not been found wanting. Twenty,
years ago they had one tool for boring and
another for enlarging the orifice. It was a
long and tiresome job fishing out the brace
and changing the bit on the end of it, especi-
ally if the bore went down a mile or so.
A tired Australian said they were a lot of
silly cows not to combine the two tools in
one, and now the invention is in use every-
where. The tired Australian got nothing for it.
A hundred yards down the other side of
the hill the chase gets keener. We are
joined by another city visitor, his wife and
children. He has a nice new suit on, his wife
has a new silk blouse and the children are
also in their best. The man from Mel-
bourne says oil will never be found in Aus-
tralia. The geological formation is too old,
or too young, or too simple, or too compli-
cated, or too anything that chimes in with
the national passion for looking on the worst
side of things.
We gather round the bore into which the
cable is descending. It goes down to its
full length and commences to come up again.
On the end of it is another long steel tube
with a valve
at the bottom
of it. It is
called a bailer.
The bailer
comes soaring
up out of the
bore. The
city visitor
says “Hell!”
Hi s wife
screams, and
both get out
their handker-
chiefs and
start wiping
some of the oil
which will
“never be found
in Australia”
off themselves
and their
children. The
city visitor is
“A gusher that may blow
out your casing.”
full of indignation at this lack of considera-
tion on the part of the South Australian
Oil Co. - .
The oil is here all right. The bailer is
drained into a barrel, the contents of the
barrel are pumped into a tank, and you are
invited to feel it, smell it and take away
a bottleful. It comes up as yellow as ochre
and settles to a rich mysterious green, like
turtle soup. It has a film of gas which
flares up when you put a match to it. it
is not a petrol oil but is rich in
lubricant, plus 29 per cent, of bitumen. In
its crude state it has been used to drive
a launch in the neighborhood.
There are 3000 square miles of country of
similar formation round about, and most of
it has been pegged out by absentee com-
panies. Nevertheless, if oil is struck m
sufficient quantities the Mines Department
has promised to take away leases from
absentees and give them to the success-
ful co. The formation stretches from bale
to Orbost on the Prince’s Highway, so that
motorists are driving with American petrol
over oil that some day may be in their tanks,
for the Australian product can be cracked to
form petrol, though its lubricating proper-
ties are more valuable at present, Mr. H.
S. Lyne explains. He is manager for the
S A and several subsidiary cos. which have
sunk upwards of 13 bores and are prepar-
ing to sink more. Mr. Lyne was born in
Portland (Vic.). He looks like poet Arthur
Adams. He has mined for gold in Alaska
and prospected for oil in parts of Dutch
Borneo unfrequented by white men. But
Dutch officials don’t encourage foreign enter-
prise. Most of the leading retired _ civil
servants of the Dutch Indies automatically
become directors of an oil concern, and they
see to it that the foreign prospector doesn’t
interfere with their monopoly. They are
almost as discouraging to private enterprise
as the pessimists of Collins-street.
Mr. Lyne takes us across to another well
which' is so much a going concern that bor-
ing has ceased and a pumping plant is being
installed. About 3000 gallons are stored here.
iMr. Lyne scrapes a bit of soil clear of
leaves and proceeds to demonstrate the
mystery and practice of oil-getting. Oil, it
appears, is inflicted with a sluggish spirit.
Like a politician, it moves only under com-
pulsion. It is the product of millions of
years of organic decay. Fish lived*: loved
and died, sea-gardens budded, flowered and
perished through millions of years while-their’
spirituous residue gathered t on the sandy
carpet that covers the granite floor of the
ocean which once covered Victoria. .Then
earth convulsions disturbed the terrace for-
mation and formed cups and hills. The oil
remained, inert, but gas and water collected
and forced it to'move up towards the.tops of
the corrugations buried 1000 feet or more
under the soil of the present land surface.
That surface gives no indication of how the
granite lies beneath it. If your bore goes
down into the
hollows it will
stub its nose
against the
rock and be
known as an
adjectival dus-
ter, and direc-
tors will issue
optimi Stic
statements and
make fresh
calls on the
s h areholders,
and the share-
holders will
ge,t restive. If
it strikes
higher up the
slope of the
hidden hill
there will' be
traces of oil,
sand dark and
smelling with
“A landscape more exhilar-
ating to an economist than
to an artist."
it; and shares will go up—and down
again when the well runs dry after
a day or so. But if it hits the
top of the corrugation there will be a
gusher that may blow out your casing,
scatter your machinery over the surround-
ing ; landscape, overwhelm villages, catch
alight and burn like Vesuvius; or there will
be a well that produces a steady flow and wall
go on filling itself up for 25 years or so.
The former are the sort most favored by
newspaper correspondents; the latter are
preferred by boremasters. America has some
remarkable'gushers, but the average produc-
tion of all her wells, including gushers, is only
five or six barrels daily, and three barrels
is not despised. Three wells at Lakes
Entrance are producing between 15 and lb
barrels between them. It takes years to
properly develop an oilfield, and the finished
article is not in the least like the popular
conception. It is more like a rubber plan-
tation. Between 200 and 250 wells may be
sunk in a square mile, the legs of the der-
ricks overlapping each other. The resultant
landscape is more exhilarating to an econo-
mist than to an artist.
Anybody who is impervious to the drama
of oil-seeking might consider these things;
In Borneo several companies went broke and
gave it up just before another, company
tapped a supply which made Miri one of
the world’s great oilfields. From being of
no account Venezuela has suddenly leapt to
the position of one of the leading producers.
At Santa Fe Springs, in U.S.A., they struck
a rich oil sand and ran it dry. The field was
abandoned. Then a new co. came along and
deepened a dry well. At 6000 feet another
sand' was struck, and there was a gusher.
After the rush had dried this sand out the
co. said no more oil would be found there,
but another co. came along and found a
fresh sand at 7000 feet. After that another
was hit at 8000 feet, and though that is dry-
ing out now oil-men are beginning to talk
of even deeper exploration. _
You come away wiping the oil that will
never be discovered in. Australia” off your
garments and meet a visiting geologist from
another State, unconnected with any local
co. He says what they have struck up there
to date is terraces, not anti-clines. You
don’t know what anti-clines are, but the
news sounds ominous. However, he bright-
ens up and remarks that that isn’t to say
that there aren’t anti-clines. In fact, he
would be surprised if there were anticlines.
This is what explains why oil-seeking is such
an exciting enterprise, and why the charming
hills above Lakes Entrance are studded witn
abandoned bores, while more are being sunk.
If Lakes Entrance becomes Australia’s
first great oilfield there will be numerous
claimants for the honor of having been the
discoverer. Mr. Lyne says the credit is due
to a lady, Mrs. M. P. Cobden She is slightly
deaf and owns flats at St. Kilda. Whether
her deafness has helped her to develop a
sixth or oil sense, the fact remains that she
always felt oil would be found at Lakes
Entrance. She said she could smell it. Any-
how she sank a bore on her own property
there at her own expense some seven years
ago, and though she didn’t strike oil she
struck gas, its near relation.
The official story is that the pioneer drill-
ing enterprise was the No. 1 bore at Lake
Bunga, put down in 1924 by G. 11. Slnrrefs
and Dr. Duncan, of Hawthorn. It was after
their discovery of oil indications that the
rush started and residents began to dream
of Lakes Entrance as a second Oklahoma.
A councillor even suggested that it would
encourage prospective shareholders if the
name of the town were changed to Oilopolis.
Mr. and Mrs. I. H. Moss have come back
from another of their overseas jaunts. This
time they spent 14 months on the Continent ;
and for more than half of that period they
resided in Paris. Mrs. Moss, who is presi-
dent of the National Council of Women,
attended a quinquennial congress at Vienna,
attended by 1000 women representing 40
countries, being leader of a Victorian delega-
tion. She was also a delegate to a confer-
ence at the Hague, which discussed the
problem of the nationality of married women.
The newspapers recently published cables
announcing the manufacture in France of
a new winter fabric plumelaine, composed
of Australian wool and African ostrich
feathers. This isn’t a very startling dis-
covery. The material was imported to Mel-
bourne last winter in dress-lengths of varied
colors by a Collins-street draper. It was
then known as “ostrich feather and kasha,”
and had a good sale. In appearance it
looks like a tweed lightly flecked with white
and is most beautifully soft and warm.
The stuff sold at 255. a yard last year, and
what it would cost to land it in Australia
now can be only guessed—with a shudder.
It isn’t likely we shall see very much more
of it until the clouds roll by.
A reminder from South Australia: —
There was a big crowd on the banks of the Torrens
for the annual “swim through Adelaide” (a mile
and 200 yards). The race was won by a lad of
13, who led all the way, a one-legged man coming
third. An additional attraction was the afternoon
tea given by the Railway Institute Ladies’ Rowing
Club to celebrate the christening of its two new
boats. Tea was served in the Railway Institute
room, where Mrs. H. L. Goldbeck unveiled a tablet
recording the club’s triumphs. Invited guests, in-
cluding the club president, Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon, smartly gowned in fawn marocain, returned
to the river bank, where the ceremony took place,
the boats being named Mrs. C. B. Anderson and Mrs.
B. H. Gillman. To both ladies were presented
lovely sheaves of gladioli adorned with miniature
engines carried out in gilt, which the recipients
afterwards handed over to the boats as mascots, the
engines being attached to the bows. In the evening
the club held a dance in the Institute room.
The Mayoress, Mrs. O. R. J. Glover, gave a fare-
well tea, in her official position as State president
of the Girl Guides’ Association, to Mrs. Arthur
Lewis, who is retiring from the Commissionership
of the northern metropolitan division in view of her
approaching marriage to Mr. Rutter Jewell-Thomas.
The pair leave by the Narkunda on March 12 for
London, whither Mr. Jewell-Thomas has been trans-
ferred. The party was held in the Mayoress’s
reception-room, most of the guests wearing Guide
uniforms. These uniforms seem- to be made one
standard size, and the smaller the Guide the worse
the fit, but economy must be studied these times.
Mrs. Glover received in a smart navy georgette
toilette, with a wide band of gold tissue ribbon
from shoulder to hip as her badge of office. Regrets
were voiced at Mrs. Lewis’s departure and “Auld
Lang Syne” concluded the party.
Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Hole, who have returned
from England after many years abroad, have taken
the Cedric Haywards’ house at North Adelaide,
during the owners’ absence in England.
Mrs. Lloyd Tolley, who recently returned from
England, was given a cheery welcome home when
her mother, Mrs. Arthur Nicholls, entertained a
number of her friends to tea at her residence,
Martin-avenue, Plympton. The hostess was gowned
in green floral chiffon; Mrs. Lloyd Tolley wore a
pretty pale grey chiffon frock, and the floral decora-
tions were pink belladonna lilies.
Mrs. and Mrs. T. W. Heath, of Sydney, have
motored from the city o’ the bridge via Mount
Gambier; they are the guests of Mr. and Mrs. F.
W. Jolly at Glenelg.
The Speck keeps in touch, too:
The Lieut.-Gov. presided at the lecture given by
the Rear-Admiral on “The Dover Patrol,” and the
new Library Hall of the Royal Society was packed
for the occasion. Supper was served in the Art
Gallery upstairs.
The Forster Cup remains in the Speck for 1931.
The final heat was won by Tassie 111., with H. C.
Batt as helmsman. With N.S.W. not competing,
much of the interest in this year’s cup racing was
lost. His Ex. Lord Somers attended the smoke
social given by the Royal Yacht Club on the. night
of the presentation of the prize. The Yic. Governor
has been enjoying an unofficial holiday in the Speck.
He spent a few days as the guest of the Eustace
Camerons, Mona Yale, Ross.
The Launceston Cup drew a somewhat smaller
attendance than last year, but the racing was excel-
lent. Chairman Geo. Clemons and Mrs. Clemons
dispensed smiles and refreshments in the
committee room. Tweeds and tailored suits
gave way to printed chiffons, georgettes and
light silks, with picturesque wide-brimmed hats
and fancy sunshades. Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Evans
were there, also the J. G. Lathams (the Federal
Opposition leader was taking a brief rest from his
platform labors), the Andrew Raeburns, the R. C.
Fields, Mr. and Mrs. Allan Mackinnon, and Miss E.
Mackinnon, the Guy Merediths, the Frank Browns,
the Alan Camerons (Mona Vale), Mayor and Mayoress
Boatwright, Mr. and Mrs. St. Hill, the Tulloch
Scotts and a big contingent of punters from the
Western district.
Broadland House School, Launceston, had its day
out at the opening of its new Assembly Hall and
School of Domestic Science. Bishop Snowdon Hay
went up from Hobart and officially opened the door
with a golden key. Mayor and Mayoress Boatwright
and many church and school dignitaries attended
the ceremony.
Kitty, daughter of the Ernest Blyths, of Armit-
stead, Kimberley, is following her twin sister Mrs.
James into the realms of matrimony. The man of
her choice is Dick Dobbie, younger son of the late
Mr. Justice Dobbie, Hobart.


\
100,
000
90,000
80,000
«■«»
70,000
MM
The fiffhi
for Chm Ufe
U partly won
to
/'i
«
MoM*i
7\
ZX
m
n
..■■■-
>•
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
Wears 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
-At forty
thp fitfhi
f is hardest
life
'‘Ears: l
20 30
s..
\
S.
60 *7o
40 50
w average Life
ends at
fifty-five
m
Steeper
and Steeper '
slants the JAne
m.
nap fZ, - fir-
55 &0 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended )5, 1 0— or more —years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
Start at 20 to guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40”
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women ..
A CCORDING to averages, you and I will
ZA die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occur.s, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten- —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated. Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISONS
k:d..cv* bladoeb '*■
o PILLS
UA—Uri=.
HARR:! SON’S
SI
p.. */NfcY and DL^iiDbß
PI LLS
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches &. Pains to
Make You QUICKLY Young * Well Again I


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One=third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
3£he Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Übe dominion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
AO Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOW-in E WORLD
ft
its:
N
AVS
&
HON
m
p^sii
OVJJ
NOW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
Visit the Beautiful Solomons
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday
land! For rest, for play, for thrilling new
experiences. . . .colorful native life and customs,
quaint tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons. . . .outrigger canoeing,
morning dips in cool jade-green waters. And
always you return from exotic delights to the
palatial modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Next Sailing, February 18, March 81, 1931.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,
1/- per copy.
mSßSmssm
ms
■ ■
% > .y/ f r ■’ - J *
.
». -v.v«
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE YORK HARROGATE EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Oities. These are on the
LONDON AND NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
f
sdf
df
tb
to
Ot
©
©
o
©
op
© ©
o o
£7,500,000
.. £89,228,378
AGGREGATE
ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 ..
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES
DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
sd
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 585 of 1930.
Between JOHN BAXTER Petitioner
And ELIZABETH FRANCES BAXTER Respondent
To ELIZABETH FRANCES BAXTER late of Tam-
worth in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a Decree for restitution of
conjugal rights dated the twenty-sixth day of Sep-
tember one thousand nine hundred and thirty has
been made against you in a suit wherein John
Baxter was the Petitioner and you the said Elizabeth
Frances Baxter were Respondent requiring you within
twenty-one days from service of the said Decree
to return home to the Petitioner and render him
conjugal rights and further requiring you within
four days after the expiration of the said twenty-one
days to file in the registry of this Honorable Court
a certificate of compliance with the Decree AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an order made on
the Seventeenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one it was ordered that substi-
tuted service of the said Decree be made by adver-
tisement in a newspaper circulating in Tamworth
within seven days from the said Seventeenth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
and in a weekly newspaper circulating in the State
of New South Wales within fourteen days from the
Seventeenth of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-one AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the home of the Petitioner to which you are
to return is at Galong in the said State AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the consequence
of your non-compliance with the Decree is that the
Petitioner may at once present a Petition asking for
a Decree against you for judicial separation or for
dissolution of your marriage AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that on application to the under-
signed Solicitor for the Petitioner you will be sup-
plied with the reasonable expenses for your return
to the Petitioner AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to comply with the said
Decree on or before the Twenty-fourth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one.
Dated this seventeenth day of February one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] E. L. DICKSON,
Acting Chief Clerk.
RALPH P. GRAHAM, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Neill Street, Harden; by his agents, Tress and
Cocks, Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Communication
Services
Ring up England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales or twenty-two
European countries, Canada,
New Zealand, U.S.A., Mex-
ico, Cuba and Java from your
own home or office via
A. W. A.
Radiophone
Telegraph England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, North and
South America and all Euro-
pean countries via
Beam W ireless
Telegraph your friends at sea
and in the Pacific Islands via
COASTAL
Radio Service
For full information telephone A.W.A.
offices, Sydney 8W2211, or Mel-
bourne F 4161, and ask for Traffic,
or apply at any Post Office or at
Amalgamated Wireless (A'sia) Ltd.,
47 York St., Sydney; 167-9 Queen St.,
Melbourne; Collins House, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
rfTßJmawniaawiaiaial
lOldlVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Sub j ects W eekly •
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who
quote you price for the original.


Langham
Hotel
London
11l
n.
London Town
in the season is
fashionable,
festive, fascinating
and full.
The Langham Hotel
at all times is
comfortable and charming,
central and quiet,
modern and moderate.
Reservations:
Langham Hotel,
Portland Place, London,W.l.
Cable: “ Langham, London.’
/CHS
TQ
S 5
*9
/vC
*
***
C.O**
»pw:5 f v 1
A pictorial
guide to
America
FasciNatiNC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. M4O,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
h
ft
* \s
m
to
w
V
L#'
OPRING or Summer, Autumn or Winter, come when you may,
Hawaii is Summer sport land. Swimming, golfing, board and out-
rigger canoe surfing, fishing, or horseback riding . . . play as you will,
in Hawaii’s perpetual Summertime. Nowhere on earth do the seasons
offer such an array of recreation.
The fragrance of the land of living blossoms is matched by a perfect
climate. The cool delights of the mid-Pacific breezes extend the length
of the calendar.
Go now! Go any time! No need to time your visit. The heat that
comes with Summer in other lands is absent in Hawaii. Cool trade
winds maintain the perfect temperature that has given Hawaii the name,
"Paradise of the Pacific.”
Famous American Hotels that sparkle with Continental smartness,
await you in this rainbow land, with every diversion the heart can
crave. Or if you prefer, there’s a modest cottage on a coral shore.
Call on your nearest Booking Agents,
or write us jor literature.
0—1931
Dept.
li.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
C.P.0., Sydney,
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the originah* ——
Dog Days.
WILLIAM HATFIELD'S GRAPHIC TALE OF THE DRY HEART OF
AUSTRALIA.
C* TVE you an idea what a crook summer
j it was, we’d come to shift starving
stock from around Innamincka on to
country where it had rained, about a hun-
dred miles up-river; but it was too hot and
too dry to put them together, and they just
had to stay there and die like flies. Tons
of water in the big holes along the Cooper
there always are, no matter how long since the
last flood, but there was not a bite of feed with-
in a day’s ride. One hole there, Ivullyamurra,
six miles long. Sail the Mauretania along
it three years after the creek last ran. Some
of the camp got a job on the station, but
I put my horses through the border fence
on a bit of feed up past Oontoo and went
back to do a bit of scalping along the big
holes. Only water there was, and all the
dogs from everywhere attracted by the car-
cases rotting along the banks.
And. it was hot. For a month after Christ-
mas you couldn’t touch the metal parts of a
rifle after nine in the morning.
I was working the creek in sections —tie
a pluck on to a strip of greenhide and hitch
that to my belt and drag a trail* after sun-
down right round one of the smaller holes,
laying my baits as I went, some exposed,
some buried by scoring my heel in the ground
and kicking the dirt back over them. Then
out around the line in the morning before
sunrise to collect my scalps. See the idea?
A dog coming in to that particular hole
got the scent of the trail I dragged and
turned off along it till he came across a bait.
At five bob a nob I was making as much
in a day as I would have been in a week
working on the station, so I couldn't growl.
Lonely, though. Coming home in the dark
along the channel under the trees I often
felt like turning round and putting a bullet
into the dogs pattering along just out of
sight behind. But you know what it would
be if once you gave way to that sort of
thing. Every shadow would be a bunyip
ready to pounce on you, and you’d be looking
into the muzzle of your rifle for escape.
Even in daylight they were terribly
cheeky; no trouble at all to drop one or
two on the morning or evening round. Of
course nobody likes a dingo, and that year,
living close to them, studying them all the
time, I got the nearest I believe I could
to hating them. The boss had told me I
could shoot any beast that was down to it
and use the carcase for bait, and that’s what
I was doing, though, believe me, you had
to be a detective to find any meat on their
frames. Tongue, heart, liver and kidneys
and the lungs were all there was to carry
away for bait, and I used to put a nick here
and there in what was left and bury a little
poison. Not too much, though. Mostly I
got only crows and hawks that way. Apart
from the tasty bits of bait I spread around
the dogs used to prefer to catch them before
they died.
Put you off keeping dogs for pets.
I caught them at it once. Four of them.
I had finished the round of my trail for
the morning, and was pushing on up the
creek towards a hole where I often got a
duck. Good tangle of fallen tea-tree choking
the channel there, and I could sneak up and
get a line on the end of the hole where the
ducks used- to* stand about on a sandbar
and preen their feathers. A neat hundred
yards I had stepped it, and if there was a
duck there I was on roast duck that night.
(I was off beef, you might imagine, and no
game meant a vegetarian diet.)
I was keeping to the left bank for most
of the way up so as to get the shade from
tree to tree and what bit of air stirred. Time
enough to get down into the dry channel
that was like nothing on earth so much as
the half of a brick-kiln, when I got within a
quarter of a mile of the tea-tree. I was
coming to where a low stony ridge, a feeler
from the range following the river away out
to the south, came right in to the bank, keep-
ing my eyes peeled, as always, for a chance
of a shot at a dingo, when I saw a tail
waving upright over the shoulder of the rise
on ahead. There was plenty of timber along
the top of the bank, but only big bare trunks,
and I didn’t reckon there was enough cover,
so I flattened and made over to the right,
well up the side of the ridge to where a
fallen tree seemed to command the hollow
where the dog was.
All the way over to the log I kept my
head down, not chancing a look, the rise
was so slight, and even then I wouldn’t have
been surprised, to find nothing there when
I poked the 25/20 round the rooty end.
You’ll understand it takes a lot to make a
cove sick that’s used to knocking cattle about
on an open branding camp, but I couldn’t
have hit a bale of wool a barrel’s length
away for a full minute. Shaky as a new-
chuni getting his first sight of a live target.
Four of them around one old scarecrow of
a cow! A dismal bit of a moan came from
her when she feebly moved a horn back to-
wards where they were at work on her.
That bit of movement w 7 as all she had left,
and the four of them were not game to go
at her throat and put her out.
Only fifty yards. If I could shoot fast
enough they were all as good as corpses
before I fired at that range; but they had
the bank for a getaway straight behind, and,
left or right out from the creek there was
the shoulder of the ridge, with scattered
bush and little desert trees to give them
cover. So I waited stupidly for a while to get
two of them in line, but that was useless, sol
picked one and let him have it as he hung back
on a mouthful of warm meat, and while the
report was smacking back from the river
timber I put a ball into number two. They
never kicked. I was using smokeless, and
the breeze was off them, so the echoes clat-
tering between the river and the ridge behind
me had the other two clean bluffed as to where
I was. I blew the third one off the muzzle, you
could say, as he raced tail-down straight for
my end of the log, and the last one streaked
off wide around to my right. I kicked dust
up in his face and turned him, then scat-
tered gravel between his legs, and a stone
or a bit of lead must have bounced up and
smashed his front paw, for he disappeared
around the shoulder of the ridge on three
logs.
The old cow tried to get up and go for me
when I w’ent over to give her a bit of peace.
One more creature coming over to torture
her. She never heard the crack of the rifle.
Those three scalps didn’t take long to lift.
I felt myself wishing they could feel the
knife. Those three made my best day so
far since Christmas, with the five I’d got
at the carcase I poisoned the night before,
and four more along the trail; but I badly
wanted the joker that got away carrying
that front paw. So I went over and picked
up His track. Now, when I say that, don't
think I’m trying to make out I'm one of
these coves you read about—follow a track
like a blackfellow, and all the rest of it.
There just isn’t any such white man. Not
unless he was reared by a tribe of wandering
abos. No. My limit in tracking anything
with soft feet like a dog is to push on
past where I last saw his track in reason-
ably soft ground till I strike another patch.
Cast about a bit when I’m at fault till I
do strike a bit of easy going, at the same
time keeping my eyes skinned for any move-
ment on ahead or either side (which is
easier still) to save myself the need for
further tracking.
So that was the way I set out down the
plain reaching back into the ranges on the
tracks of that wounded dingo. I knew I
was a fool to come at it—leave the shade of
the creek without a waterbag when I should
have been sprawled in my net away from
the flies, or at least sat resting in that patch
of tea-tree, on the lookout for a nice fat duck.
There was only one thing to be said for it
out there in the blazing sun on that plain.
You did get away for a bit from the stink
of rotting carrion—and ants. Yes, ants.
The creek fairly stank wuth them. You can
guess how well they’d be doing with- all that
meat about. They must have bred up in
billions, because, no matter how many car-
cases there were, they soon flattened down,
with the stiff hide just draped over bones
picked clean as sticks of chalk.
And it’s only another way of saying the
going was soft and easy all the way when
I tell you I followed that track for about
five miles—till the mirage swallowed up the
tall river gums behind me, and the bare gran-
ite of the range pushed up red and sulky
over the blue, false water on ahead. Com-
monsense was beginning to tell me it was a
fair go for the miserable dog, and to get
back to where there was a drink, when I
sighted a bit of yellow moving between a few
.scattered whitewoods some way in front
and a little to the left. Tired, by the look
of him. Never mind, he had a long rest com-
ing to him. I reckoned, as I put up the sights.
Two-fifty, and practically a sitting shot.
Perhaps I can blame the heat-haze (though
I never could see why people should always
put in an excuse for every shot), but, any-
way, I only winged him again, and I tell
you I had my fill of torturing a beast battl-
ing hard to get away from me on two pi’ops.
It was the iast shot in the magazine that
jerked him sideways like a stray mongrel
being kicked off a verandah, after I'd put
up little spurts of sand and gravel all around
him. His hide was full of bits of grit,' all
blood-specked as if I'd shot him with a
handful of tacks. But I was proud of that
scalp. You’ll know what I mean if you
ever tracked a wounded animal five miles
and then got him at the finish.
That bag of scalps on my back was begin-
ning to sing in the sun as I headed back for
the creek, but the tune was three-pound-ten
—fourteen of them —and I wasn’t growling.
But I wanted a drink. I’d have paid two
scalps there and then for a quart of clear
cold water. I said it was hot, but that's
only a part of it. Not long after I started
out a breeze had sprung up, one of those
that just lean against you like the hot
flannel they do up for you when you’re sick,
varied now and then with a hotter puff that
makes you think the lid’s blown off Hell.
Big columns of dust wandered about the
plain, and, no matter how you side-tracked,
managed to come straight at you. Arid
inside them. .. .but I’ve used.up all I can saj
about heat.
I hadn’t gone a mile when I came across a
set of hobnailed boot tracks. An Afghan
out after his camels, I thought, without
much interest. Only an Afghan would
wear boots like that—or a newchum,
and there wouldn’t be any newchum wander-
ing about here. Hard to explain just how
a track fascinates you, though, unless you’ve
put in a few years where tracks mean such
a lot—finding your own horses every morn-
ing, and all that. (I was glad to be having a
spell off tailing mine continually.) Uncon-
sciously I found myself running those tracks
back, and then, at the same time as I noticed
they were wavering far too much for any-
body who was happy about where he. was
making for, I remembered that from the first
time I had seen them there hadn’t been any
track of camels for them to be following.
Something wrong. Afghans are damned
good bushmen, and don’t go mooning about
so far from water, expecting to see their
camels stepping on the mirage without leav-
a track. No camel tracks, no Afghan. I
stopped and looked intently at the tracks
now. Skifling the feet on the ground between
strides. Watch an Afghan walking; they
don’t skiff their feet. No horseman wouid
wear those boots, so it was some swaggie,
an axe-and-bar man, pick and shovel expert!
on the track for work. A newchum very
likely, but bushed, whoever or whatever he
was. I debated whether to go back and get
a waterbag, but it was all of four miles yet
to the river, and two more down to my
camp for the bag. Twelve miles before I
got back to tins spot to start to run him
(Continued on next ptge.)


m
IN CANADAS ROCKIES
■JVTATURE’S masterpiece set
' like a rare jewel—show place
of Canada’s Rockies. Here the
world’s smart and great come
for rest and a hundred pleasures.
On your way to Europe stay at
the famous C.P.R. Chateau Lake
Louise—swim—ride —climb to
the sky dance to wonderful
music. C. P. R. service too.
Literature on request.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
Sr 7/
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
'Jkc Worlds Greatest Uravel System
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
447 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
RAVOVAC
Flashlights “ Batteries “Radio Tubes
fsd
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
Ray-o-vac Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. Ray-o-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the Roto-
matic Switch
Your nearesr distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer’* Repreteatatire
W. C. SCHWAB
bov 1821. G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A. ...
A A
down. Curse? Well wouldn't you? A long
while back I said I wanted a drink.
Heading out again into the desert I cursed
all neweliums, forgetting how few years it
was since I was one myself. I ran the tracks
mechanically, for, though I mentioned I
don't class myself as a tracker, you could
say that following hobnailed bootmarks isn't
tracking either. Two miles or more he led
me back, not far past where I collected my
last scalp. Must have heard my shooting.
Why the hell hadn't he waved, or put up a
bit of a smoke—if he could have found any-
thing. to burn? Just over a low stony rise
not four hundred yards away from where
the dog dropped. An old chap he turned out
to be, well over sixty I’d have said. Dressed
in dungarees and an old blue-serge coat, no
hat, and a faraway look in his tired eyes.
“You’re the police, eh?” he said. “Well,
I’ll go quiet. I thought I’d given you the
slip after you’d shot at me over there.”
So the old fellow had heard me and
thought I was shooting at him. Pretty far
gone, though his speech was clear enough, so
far. “Don’t talk,” I said. “And don’t worry
about the police. I’m no policeman—only a
dingo trapper. Look !” —pointing to the hairy
ears and tails sticking out of my bag.
“No, don’t try to make it easy for me,
young fellow. You’re the police all right.”
Perhaps it did his powers of observation
credit, after all. I'm of a height for the
police, and the flap-pocketed shirt, khaki
drill pants and tan elastic sides might have
been the undress of a trooper on the long
stages they have to make out there. His
eyes had come to rest on my boots, and I
admit I can’t get into an eight. Anyway,
I wasn’t going to argue with him, the state
he was in, to say nothing of saving my own
breath till I got a drink. “I’ll go quiet,”
he repeated, and started groping for his hat.
But there wasn’t any hat, so I stuck mine
on him, and nearly laughed when it went
around his ears. Perhaps I looked as big
a joke in the colored handkerchief I knotted
on my head.
Anyhow, I couldn’t have laughed at a
hatful of sovereigns by the time we got in.
I hadn’t noticed it so badly while I could
keep my mind on a single objective and
bowl along at a steady bat. With the oid
chap to consider, though, that walk was a
different proposition. He kept wanting to
turn back, and making me assure him I
wouldn’t shoot him. He couldn’t remember
anything but that his name was Ted, or
Fred, he wasn’t quite sure. Where he was
going or where - he had come from was
beyond him. There was something he thought
he’d done that would bring the police after
him. I was a trooper, he was arrested, and
that was the end of everything for him, it
seemed.
He was a little clearer after we got in and
he had a drink. (I never thought I’d get
him over the last mile or so.) His fear
seemed to be closer to him. I was looking
around under the big bean-tree on the bank
where he’d camped, but there was nothing
there but his hat. I’d given it to him and
taken back my own, and suggested moving
down to my camp, when he let out a scream,
pointing wildly at something across tlie
creek. “Look! Them objecks again !” he
yelled. “I told you they was there. Why
did you bring me back here? O God, it all
comes back to me now. I wish I’d just
cleared out and left him alone!”
“Oh, you’ll be all right,” I tried to calm
him. “It’s nothing.” He had babbled a lot
about “objecks” on the way back, and I
looked to see what was worrying him. Lie
was pointing at a crooked forked limb of a
fallen dead tree over in the outer channel.
“Look!” he said, grabbing my arm and
making sure I followed his wavering finger.
“The devil’s horns! I knew it was all up
with me when them objecks appeared to
mock at me. I’ll tell you everything—it’s
all coming back to me, though I’d never ha
done it if I was feeling quite all right. I
done him in—cut his throat! See? Cook
at the blood all over me! I might lia stood
his tliievm habits if he’d let me Sleep. Bur
a bloke can’t live without sleep, can he? Ana
every time I’d doze off he'd blow his nose-
like that!” putting his fingers to las own
and showing me how. “So I pounces on lum
and shoves me knee in his chest, grabs him
be his stupid-lookin’ w’iskers and cuts his
throat from ear to car. Gord, but didn t lie
scream! And I’d thought to stop Ins lioi-
levin’ he hackin’ his windpipe, through first
slash. They musta heard him up at the
house, though, so I grabs me hat and oft.
“Where was this?” I said, my voice all
cracked, as if I still needed a drink. And
I felt I did after listening to all this while
hfe followed it with actions like a lad recil-
mg- *Wlio was it you done in?
“Obi -Toe,” he said, and added with all the
poison he could get into his wavery old
voice the dam stinker.”
“Not over at Oontoo?” I said, my voice
getting still more cracked. It was in oid
Joe Sparks’s paddock I had left my horses,
Decent sort, old Joe. Anybody would be
stone-mad to want to hurt a hair of old
Joe’s. I found that stupid nigger song
repeating itself in my head—“ Poor Old
Joe!”
“Yes, over at Oontoo, on the rabbit fence,”
s a i d Ted, or Fred, whoever he was. And he
looked more done in now than when I found
him. No wonder. He’d been too clouded
about things then to realise the mess he was
in, beyond some vague idea I was the police
out to shoot him down. “Hell!—but my
head aches,” he went on, “when I try to
think out how it all happened.”
Ever since I had learned to know my own
way a j JOU t where there aren’t any roads or
f ences it had been my ambition to find some-
body an( ] sa ve him from perishing of thirst
j n kush. Well, I had realised it now,
and it was nothing like the yarns I’d read
or ’ near( j. You could hardly say he was lost
j n the true sense—simply hiding blindly
awa y somewhere. Of course, he would have
perished if someone hadn’t found him; but
wouldn’t it have been better so? Only a few
j lours a g o j h a d p U t a dumb animal out of
j tg m i sery aiu ] the same day I must drag
a f e n o w-creature back to life to put him
« trough a ll the agony of suspense till they
s t r ung him up and left him to kick his life
ou {. j n m id-air. jy[ e a nd m y wonderful track-
j llg j Damn that dog! Damn the conceit
t j iat j ed me a fter him! I could see fellows
gating their cheques when they found out
w j lo wag working in anv camp with them,
What could r do v If j pac k e d hi m o ff into
the bush again the police would only be a
f ew hours behind him. Believe me, I had
more than half a mind to put a bullet in him
and g 0 on into the township and say he came
at me with a knife—stark mad. Pc-rhaps I
would have done, only I saw myself again,
f e n o ws saying “What? A big hefty lout like
yoll had to take a rifle to stop that poor old
do dderer?”
j tell ' rd have so i d out cheap just
’. , „ T „,„>u
£* lve me y° ur kmre, I said ai d w
to m y cam P and S et a blt of
tuckei.
He handed over one of those big Swedish
knives sailors use folded up and parked in
its handle, but all bloodstained. My own
knife was in pretty much the same state,
but 1 shuddered.
Down past where Id shot the dogs (look-
ing pretty, the way I’d left them, and start-
ing to swell out with the heat), and on to
where I was camped just above the Kully-
amurra Gorge. That was a rotten meal,
I needed a feed, all day without a bite,
but everything I ate tasted like —scalps! 1
was wondering what to do. The old fellow
had lost all interest. Couldn’t keep lus
mind on anything for two minutes, Must
I sit up and watch him all night, or try
to walk in with him in the moonlight? I
decided on walking in. Only the old chap s
rafters were shaky. From the ears down he
was in as good shape as 1 was myself, since
he got the drink. I was committed to hand-
ing him over to the police, for I d found
him and taken charge of him. Better to
trudge steadily along the road in the cool
than sit up all night to see he didn’t meander
off again, or—do anything foolish.
So when I’d arseniced my scalps I slung
the water-bag and we set off. The road
leaves the river bank there and takes a sweep
out to the right to get over the shoulder of
the range that pinches in at the gorge. It
was still an hour of sundown, and warm
walking, though more pleasant than down
by the creek. Clean air up there with a
dry tang of the scattered minnaritchie and
an odd mimosa and thin mountain mulga.
We were back on the level by sundown,
mooching along without a word in the dead
quiet under the trees. To the left through the
trees was the wide, cool sweep of Kully-
amurra, stretching away out of sight ahead
and back behind, and to the right the thinly-
scrubbed slope of the tablelands came down
to within a few yards of the road. Like a
drive in one of these parks you see the
pictures of. Red and gold on the water in
the reaches further down, and the sky on
ahead above the green stuff giving the lie
in all shades of colors like the inside of a
shell to the sheet of steel it had been all
day. I remember thinking at the time that,
if it'd only stop like that, the way these
fellows that write poems about the bush must
always seem to sqp it, it wouldn't be such a
bad place to be in, when all of a sudden
round a bend trots a little knot of horses
and stops and stares at its, stupid like, and
two fellows rides up behind them.
Well, thank God I was finished! It was
the trooper and his tracker from Innamincka.
“So you picked him up for me, eh?” War-
burton says to me. “Saw young Alfie
Sparks on his way in, did you? And how’re
you feeling now, Ted” —to the old chap.
Ted muttered something and just gaped
at him as if he couldn’t try to understand
any more.
“We’ll boil the quarts here, eh? —and ride
on into town in the cool,” he goes on, swing-
ing to the ground and hooking his bridle-
rein to a twig.
“Look!” I said. “You’re taking this ter-
rible off-handed. Did he really kill old Joe?”
And at that he laughed fit to burst.
Instead of answering me (I don’t think
he could speak) he pulled out a letter and
handed it to me to read. It took me some
time to make it out. but when I did I tell
you I laughed, too. It was about the worst-
spelt thing I ever saw —2 for “to,” 4 for
“for,” and all that, but I won’t try to give
it you exact in case my own is bad enough to
maker'some folks laugh that had more school-
ing than me.
To the police at Innamincka old ted has gone oil
his head like he does you know he done before its
the sun. He took a snout on alfie’s goat what he
uses for the water you know to drag it up from
the creek in the tank on the little cart I built him
because it ate his damper when he put it out to
cool on a bush and swore he’d kill him if he done
it again. Well the missis gives him another loaf and
ted growls then because Joe the billygoat keeps him
awake at night snorting you know the way old
stinkers do so he killed the goat last night and
thought we might roar him up so he off. So please
send tracker because I think he might perish in the
bush this hot spell you never know where he’ll go
when he’s like this I’m on his tracks myself but you
know my eyesight aint too good I’m sending this in
with young alfie on his bike.
Which it leaves me the same yours truly Jsparks,
The Wild Huntress.
Go like dream’s silver stag, O wind-grey
horse,
Like the slipped hound on undetermined
course,
Down the long mountain flank, whose red-
gold gorse
Burns molten ’neath wild sunset, and scarps
glow
Amber, dark gold and garnet 1 Tresses blow
Back like wild flags; breasts glittering like
snow,
Moulded ice-firm on mountains free of life.
Not a gorse flower beneath the hoofs’ swift
strife
Loses a petal. Sunset takes to wife
The streaming wind —and I go down its
tide.
The free-maned and unbridled horse I ride
Was once man’s serf, as I was once man s
bride.
Oh, he went footsore, tireless, curbed and
whipped;
And I went curbed and ordered, careful-
lipped,
The while without, life, like a Viking
stripped,
Hammered upon its breast with glad,
clenched hands,
And launched long, sword-fanged ships
towards unknown lands,
And piled blood-dripping spoil on wave-
struck strands.
I cooked the food and listened with tame
eyes,
Though every great-limbed morning cried
“Arise-!
Be masterless ! The servant daily dies !”
Then came the yoke of birth; like o’er-
spurred steed
That stumbles, fails and falls in the home-
mead,
My heart sank dumb, beast-patient.... I
was freed!
Go like dream’s silver stag, O wind-grey
horse,
Like the slipped hound on undetermined
course!
Your weightless hoof-strokes stir no flower of
gorse.
Night hurries to us, and the hunters come!
The sea, or thunder, rolls a distant drum;
The wind’s a horn; only live men are dumb.
Within their log-built shelters they lie still;
They mutter, “Now the storm breaks down
the hill.”
Or, lower, “Hear the death-hunt! Guard
from ill
Hearth-gods! Man-gods!” They shudder
next their wives;
Like flickering hearth-embers are their lives—
They, with their Viking clamor, unsheathed
knives.
With the horn-sounding wind the free ones
go—
Thralls, women-thralls, on stallions that
knew woe
And screamed where the turf altar saw
blood flow.
What of the quarry? See the pale thing fly
Half a wind’s length ahead. Hear the
thin cry—
Thin as a bat’s voice. How came you to die?
Are you a man who flees like wild-eyed deer?
Ah ! I outstrip you, lifting a wind-spear!
Nay, man’s war-captive, you have done with
fear!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


fsd
fsdf
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake C’o.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOX.MES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 483 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. EBB Jilt, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1861,.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Kates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W, Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. IT. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
o
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register, the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. 8. MELBOURNE.—
Thompson, “Lie- J. N. Bednall,
Bar House,” 30 The Herald Office,
Carrington street. Flinders street.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro*
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
iniles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Do You Know ?
U
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features a
woman ought to know. Once° you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern i*
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
To keep
smiling &
vigorous-
KEEP
HEALTHY
o£te4t^
PILLS
PRICE Is. Qd
S o l d by Ibe Proprtefoi
ST. AeiLens
tm
Health is the key to happiness. Radiant
smiles and high spirits speak of a system
vital, active and clean. Health depends
on that, you know 1 Once you become
constipated, wastes and poisons vitiate
the blood, and the system slowly becomes
sluggish, inactive. Eyes get discoloured —
tongue becomes furred—the complexion
shows sallow; headaches and biliousness follow.
If you suspect auto-toxication is tuining your
health, take
BEECHAMS
PILLS
'WORTH A GUINEA
A BOX'
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
Weekly Courier’
Published
Every
Wednesday
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin**
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME «
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia— l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas— l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/.
fee,#**
■■
w
0°
>'° e V
&
lt £\* (S®
\\*t& c
6
o"f
#•
# B>
tf® 6
c*'


QE&
OPENED
O
M
i •* *
c
Fine Old i
ScotchWhisky ;
BLACK
l A WO
I WHITE
HES BUCHANAN!.
IASCOW & LONC
y AppO>rs\r- r»0 \
6s/,//ers ro H ■M• Vh *
stfßHthe PRINCE
PRODUCE Of SCOTLAND
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE“
KIdtUMC •»*OI »»»<•
SPECJAL blend Of
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
]cu*s~up / /2lc£4jzjuaj^
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
GLASGOW & LONDON
CUKTAUCHERS-GLENLIVET DISTILLERY. MUIBEN SCCV»
NET CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID CZS
OOTTIEO UNDER The SUPERVISION O'Y-l
Commonwealth Customs
A
BLACK
AND
WHITE
WHISKY
EASY TO
OPEN
EASILY
RE-SEALED
Bottled in Bond
under the super-
vision of the
Commonwealth
Customs
