

WARATAfi FENCE
HINGED JOINT
ŗ
ire Proof
Rust Proof
Stock Proof £.
We atn cr Proof
lension Curve*
The Fence
with the
£ ,
f
/// ,«
£ ' #
74 iff
7 V
i
MS
X/ s*
4.\ x
Pi
A\^
In the event of the wires being
distorted from pressure by a beast
or other cause, immediately the
strain is removed the fence reverts
to its original erect position.
ECONOMY is the watchword that is being sounded
everywhere in these times of financial stress.
Fencing costs are a big item to the man on the land
—-how foolish, how economically unsound to go on
erecting the old-fashioned, obsolete type of post and
wire fence! In a few years the whole cost of labor
and materials will have to be met again. THE
WARATAH FENCE, “HINGED JOINT,” LASTS A
LIFETIME.
Summer is on the way —bringing with it bush fires.
If fires sweep your paddocks, will they lay low miles
of fencing because you are still using wooden posts?
Erect a WARATAH “Hinged Joint” Fence with
B.H.P. Star Steel Posts, and damage or destruction
by fire is an impossibility.
The post-and-wire fence does not offer absolute
security. Stock can spread the wires of an ordinary
fence, as the droppers are many feet apart. This
cannot happen with the “Hinged Joint” Waratah
Fence, which has pickets or droppers every 12
inches (6 inches on Pig Fences).
Again what about resistance to weather and
extremes of climate? All wire in the Waratah Fence
is made from B.H.P. steel and is heavily and evenly
galvanised with pure electrolytic zinc by the hot
process. Thus long life is assured with no danger of.
rust. The Waratah “tension curve” gives the fence
greater resilience and prevents the possibility of the
line wires fracturing during frost.
Made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence-—Tyeasy High Tensile Fence —
Standard Fence. Special fences are avail-
able for: Cattle, Sheep (2 styles), Lambs
and Pigs. Write for illustrated booklet.
e
4*SS
sm
SSS
•B
vi
is
Tj[DjlJL
The Only "HINGED -JQII Ustrali
The Bulletin
ifcfLAJL Ct (b-OAjjj Chvf f !— PojML &'
Vol. 52.—N0. 2678.
Wednesday, June 10, 1931.
ŕ
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


p\UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
iiU*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
THE BEST OF ALL REMEDIES FOR
COUGHS. COLDS SORETHROATS.ETC
‘W&C
M 9»
£
HS
Your best safeguard against colds,
and all affections of the throat, chest
and lungs, is Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes. This wonderful remedy
carries the endorsement of the medi-
cal profession and has been univer-
sally known for over 40 years.
Large Ties, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by ■
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.)
Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
m
weary men
listless women
dull chilaren
take this road
to healthy energy
DO you realise that your trouble
comes largely from imperfect
elimination? Take Figsen, the
natural laxative which does not purge
or gripe and see what a difference will
be made to your health. That is the
sensible way to follow Nature’s own
road to health. Figsen is as close to
Nature in its action as human skill can
make it. No unpleasant after effects,
perfectly safe and utterly dependable.
FIGSEN
There is a Nya.l
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
r 7
e
Cuticura
TALCUM
People of 60 Countries
Realize the Pure Soothing
Qualities to be Found in
Cuticura Talcum
è
Delicately medicated, it absorbs
perspiration and is cooling and
refreshing. Ideal for Baby after
the bath, as a finishing touch to
Mother’s toilet and for Father
after shaving.
Talcum Is. 3d. Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick le. 6d.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One---third of Queensland*s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
®h t (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
(Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT-. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an -illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W C 2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Bit of Belloc
Ahab Muldoon, coming in to perform
the* weekly rite of filling his pipe in the
best cane chair at 214 George-street, deliber-
ated upon the possibility of averting public
disaster by converting the Savings Bank
into a pub. Then he recalled the particu-
lar purpose of his visit, and presented me
with a framed print of a photo, of Belloc,
a characteristic enthusiasm inspired by my
having mentioned that I thought Hills and
the Sea one of the most glorious books I
had ever read. It happened that I already
had a print of Belloc, which permitted a
poetic adjustment: I now have Ahab’s
Belloc and he has mine. He will also have,
on loan, next time he calls, Belloc’s latest
fine collection of essays, A Conversation
with a Cat, and Others (Cassell; Angus
and Robertson; 10s. 6d.). It is, unlike Hills
and the Sea, of uneven topic— not uneven
quality, a dazzling critical laziness that can
be applied to anything from the 'Authorised
Version down, and often is. The topics are
as unfixed, and engaging, as the arguments
of Belloc’s sparring partner, Chesterton.
I prefer him in the more solid hills-and-
the-seaish mood of, say, The Sources of
the Seine and Old Brisach to the lighter
mood of the title-piece and the other
whimsical things of the kind, though, God
knows, In Honor of the Unicorn almost
tempts me to write my preference the other
way round. It begins:—
They have found the Unicorn at last. Very
glad I am that they have found him: glad for
a number of reasons. They have found him in
China, and high time, too. They hav e found him
not alive, but dead, and turned to a skeleton.
They were too late, as usual. Had they taken
a little trouble while he was still alive, they
would have spotted him along ago and spared us
a lot of nonsensical scepticism about fabulous
monsters. Anyhow, he’s safe home at last, and I
welcome him.
But then you turn to him in the other
mood:—
The little shallow Rhine goes rapidly by, crossed
by a crazy bridge of boats; and in the air all
about is silence. So much for Old Brisach. I
should like to put it under glass.
Or the opening of the Seine essay:—
I have during my life practised upon occasion
the ritual of drinking from the sacred springs of
rivers. The lesser rivers I so despise that unless
thev have some special sanctity about them, like
the' River Arun. or the River Ribble, I would not
trouble to drink of their sources; for I do not
think' that these small fry can communicate any
great virtue, even to their worshippers. I have
therefore, of the smaller rivers, drunk only of the
head 1 springs of the River Arun, just above the
lake where it rises; and though it was but a
quarter of a mile off a road when I first traced
it on a map, and though I go by that road often
enough, 1 never deigned to drink from the sources
of the Medway. I have drunk of the source of
the Ribble also, but of no other small streams, for
I pay them no honor. I drink of the greater
rivers.
I don’t, think it too much to call that sort
of writing superb.
A Touch of Gosse
Astonishingly, Belloc is not once referred to
in the sweeping and almost wholly literary
letters that make up the bulk of The Life and
Letters of Sir Edmund Gosse, by Evan
Charteris (Heinemann; 255. net). Practically
every other name of importance in a gener-
ation of writers is there. Gosse sought and
maintained a voluminous —on his side, at
least —correspondence with the leading
literary figures of his long day, and the
many letters of this volume are addressed
to such great names as Dobson, Swinburne,
Browning, Stevenson, George Moore, J. C.
Squire, Sassoon, Guedalla, Drinkwater.
They are written, as most of Gosse’s work
was not, so much with the brake off that
they might possibly rescue his name from
the pit of forgettable literary critics, into
which it tumbled, even before his death
in 1928, to keep mutually abhorrent com-
pany with Churton Collins, whom he called
Shirten Collars and would probably have
called worse if he had not been writing to
a lady, or if the gods had graced him with
a more inventive imagination, or if he had
ever been able to forget his religiously
fanatic and rather tiresome father. Collins
dealt him the one unforgivable blow of his
life; nailed him down on inaccuracies of
his From Shakspeare to Pope. Gosse saw
the hand of malice in the criticism, as he
did in all criticism of himself, and as all
thin-skinned persons do, even though they
be critics who write, as Gosse did, one
opinion for the personal gratifying of the
author and an enragingly different one for
the diversion of the public. Tennyson, soon
after the attack, restored much of Gosses
ego bv bellowing at a large garden party
that in his opinion Collins was “a Louse on
the Locks of Literature,” which seems to
me to somewhat neglectfully overlook the
insectivorous fact that lice are not, as a
rule, associated
with spotless clean-
liness, Collins, for
all the present
biographer’s efforts
to discredit him,
won hands down;
but, happily, he did not obliterate, for
these letters are a godsend, both as literary
bagatelles and as autobiography. Gosse
literally chased after great names, and had
a wonderfully easy life. Apart from the
Collins affair, about the only other shock
he received was when, late in life, he was
elected to the Marlborough Club and his
son Philip had published The Pirates’ Who’s
Who. A distinguished naval officer meet-
ing Gosse in the club said, “Hullo, Gosse.
I’ve just read a capital book of yours about
pirates. I’d no idea you were a writer.”
Which should have made him forget even
Shirten Collars, and no doubt did, at the
moment.
New. York
Among G'osse’s ordinarily human activi-
ties was the practice of keeping a record
of every penny he spent—even to a sum
of 2d. contributed to an offertory in a |
Continental church! If those vicarious high- j
spenders the readers of travel books were
to do likewise, they’d have a pretty account
to tally up at the end of the extraordinary
rush tour that Paul Morand conducts in
New York (Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net). For
such a short book it is an amazingly com-
plete survey of the City of Dreadful Skite.
There is sensation in reading it—sensation
of speeding in a car against a brisk wind,
and yet missing nothing of the street or the j
buildings, outside and in, or the people or J.
their typical ways. Morand has a sickly:
sexual manner at times, but the mood is
not on him often enough to matter. He
sees things not ordinarily noted—flowers
can be sent by telegraph in New York;
inside the head of Liberty, which is empty,
philanthropic societies give banquets; or
this:—
Not far from here, at Tweh tv e ighth -street, I
noticed a. crowd collected in front of a shop win-
dow. Approaching, I found exhibited on a black
velvet cushion a pair of old tramp’s boots, under
which was written in letters of gold:—
these; historic shoes belonged
TO CHARLIE CHAPLIN. THEY ARE
INSURED FOR TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS.
It is a capital book for anyone who wants
to have a look at New York cheaply,
brightly and in a hurry.
Dr. Barnardo
Belloc, as mentioned, has no place in the
Book of Gosse; Gosse, though he worked
under the great friend of the ragged, has
no place in Dr. Barnardo, by J. Wesley
Bready (George Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d.
net). It was a very short term that Gosse
spent with Barnardo. Brought up in a
severely Christian home, he shrank from the
people Barnardo was helping; whereas
Barnardo, though he had a Quaker mother, |
had little to do with Christianity until he
came to it of his own accord when he was)
17, about which age Gosse was being thun-
dered at by his father for having been
with “that infidel Swinburne.” The
Barnardo is not nearly the biography the
Gosse work is. It has no reserves and it,
gushes. Its more interesting biographical
titbits include the facts that “the blood of
at least seven nationalities pulsed” in
Barnardo’s veins, and that, as a child, he
was pronounced dead by two physicians
and was lyeing embalmed when it was dis-
covered that he was alive.
Donn Byrnes Stones
Donn Byrne unfortunately isn’t alive. I
can’t imagine him, if he had been, sanction-
ing publication of Stories Without Women
(Sampson Low; 7s. 6d.). The war stories
seem particularly weak, both in probability
and purpose, but in none can I trace the
Byrne of such literary genls as Blind Rajtery
and An Untitled Story. No acknowledg-
ment of previous publication is made, but
I hazard the guess that the stories were
written with both eyes on an American
market.
RED PAGE.
Talkie Slang
Two years ago, when the talkies began to
invade Maoriland, there was some concern
at their possible influence upon our accent.
That fear has passed, but there remains an
uneasiness about the influence which the
speaking film may have upon our idiom.
Yet those who show concern encounter
many Americanisms in everyday life, and,
no doubt, imagine that they are using noth-
ing but the purest English—whatever that
may be in our hybrid tongue.
The mind pauses before such racy Ameri-
canisms as “hijacker,” “Bohunk” and “racket-
eer,” but it accepts unquestioningly such
words as swamp, creek, lot (in the sense of
a piece of ground), canoe, corn (maize),
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING. .Wins Anthony Horderns’ Many Friends.
Anthony Horderns'
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
World-Renowned Arms
AT FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Positive action... firing, extracting and cocking with unfailing regularity.
These are trustworthy models,
the time under all conditions,
cision and carefully fitted,
prices should tempt you.
They will make good all
The parts are built to pre-
Order yours now. These
H
Winchester S.S. Rifle, Model 1902, to
take .22 Short, Long or Long Rifle
Cartridges; Round Barrel 18in. long,
weight about 31b. (1 15/141). Anthony
Horderns’ Price 27/6
As above, with Elevating Sight . . . 30/-
é
Winchester Rifle, 1892 Model, Full or
Half Magazine, 24in. Octagon Barrel,
.25/20, .32, .38 or .44 calibre, weight
about 6|lb. (I 15/148). Anthony Hor-
derns' Price . £B/17/6
wgM
Winchester Carbine, 25/20, .32, .38 or
.44 calibre. Full or Half Magazine, 20in.
Round Barrel, Military Sight, weight
about s*lb., Model 1892 (115/147).
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . . £7/12/6
ê
Winchester .22 Calibre Automatic
Rifle, 1903, ‘‘Take Down" to take
Special Cartridge (.22 Calibre Auto-
matic), 20in. Barrel, Plain Trigger,
Straight Grip, Walnut Stock, weight
about sflb. (1 15/145). Anthony Hor-
derns’ Price £8
Winchester Rifle, 1890 Model, made for .22 Short, .22 Long or .22
W.R.F., 24in. Octagon Barrel, "Take Down” Plain Trigger, Straight
Grip Stock of plain wood, weight about (i 15/144). Anthony
Horderns’ Price £6/12/6
Model 53 —Extra Light Weight. Calibre .44
Winchester. The famous model ’92 action.
Solid frame. 22in. Round, tapered Nickel Steel
barrel. Half Magazine. Shotgun butt, metal
plate. Weight about 541 b. An extremely light-
weight, strong, handsome rifle, dependable and
accurate (115/150). Anthony Horderns’ Price, £9
ë
Savage “Sporter,” Model 238.—.25/20
or .32 Calibre Repeating Bolt Action
Rifle. 25in. Round barrel. General specifica-
tions same as model 23A, except rifles of this
calibre have an additional rear locking-lug on
bolt into receiver. Five-shot detachable box-
type magazine. Weight 61b. (115/173A).
Anthony Horderns’ Price £g /7/g
12.16 x 20G. Belgian D.8.8.L. Gun, Engraved Top
Lever Action, Blue Steel Barrels, Cross Bolt, Engine-
turned Rib, Left Full, Right Modified Choke, Cham-
bered 2fin., Rebounding Locks, Deeley Fore-end,
Walnut Stock, Half Pistol Grip, Nitro Proved
(I 15/7 IP.). Anthony Horderns’ Price £5
Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-hammerless Ejector
Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel, Choke Bored, Top
Lever Action, Nitro Proved, Walnut Stock, Half Pistol
Grip, splendidly balanced, English made throughout.
Price £6/5/-
Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, Bar Action,
Top Lever, Cross Bolt and Side Clips, Rebounding Locks, Hammers
below line of sight, Steel Barrels, Choke Bored Chambers for
2|in. Cartridges, Flat File-cut Rib, Dark Walnut Pistol Hand
Stock, Deeley and Kdge Fore-end, well finished. Specially proved
for Nitro Powders (115/97). Anthony Horderns’ Price, £l5/10/-
Br o wning Automatic
Pistol, New Model, .25
calibre, fitted with three
safeties; two automatic
safeties and one ordinary
(115/289). Anthony
Horderns’ Price . . 65/-
1
Webley & Scott Auto-
matic Pistol, British make,
.25 calibre. The lightest, the
simplest, the most perfect
pocket weapon. High velo-
city and penetration. Easily
dismantled for cleaning, and
as easily assembled. Magazine
carries 6 cartridges; length
overall 4|in. Weight llijoz.
(115/258). Anthony Horderns’
Price 67/6
e
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Columbia
Finest Portable
a^n
m
SJL
>ss, 3g
OS',
z&.
JM!
p
S 3?
m
*M
as
m
s,
V
Here it is! The Portable
that challenges the world
at any price possessing
marvellous tone, range
and volume
MODEL 112 a SPECIFICATION:
CABINET.—Shaped like an Attache Case, with handle, and two oxidised locks. Constructed
in selected hardwood, covered Black Morocco-grain Leather Cloth. Length 1654-Ins.,
width 1154-ins., height 6‘2-ins. Fitted with spring-cover needle cup. Nickelled carrier in
lid for eight 10-in. Records.
MOTOR. —Specially powerful British-made Single-Spring Motor, to play 10-inch and 12-inch
Records. 10-in. Turntable. Velvet-covered nickelled flange. Patent hinged winding crank
that folds into the cabinet.
TONE-ARM. New type Columbia "Plano-reflex” Tone-Arm. improved "goose-neck” type,
mounted on ball-bearings, connected with scientific tone conduit and amplifier.
SOUND-BOX. —New Columbia detachable "No. 15a” Sound-Box, providing increased musical
range of equal response.
-.j WITH CARRIER IN LID FOR EIGHT RECORDS
Portable
s k your dealer for a demonstration
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.': Columbia Graphophone (Aust.), Ltd.
(Wholesale Department),
Parramatta Road, Homebush.
VIC.: Columbia Graphophone (Aust.), Ltd.
(Wholesale Department),
300 Littlfe Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l
Q’LTJ.: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S A. : South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Clavidge House, Gander Place, Adelaide.
TAS • Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Ptv., Ltd.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


'n > i
M 4
ru
imi
i A
m
f j, (
sm
’■m
Checks Win!
MEN’S
Tweed Coats
£ 66-
These are really splendid coats. Quality
and style are faultless. They’ve the same
'‘look” about them as the superior Eng
lish models from which they’re copied
In Raglan style with vertical pockets,
Tweeds of beautiful texture, in checks
designed specially for David Jones’,
£6/6/- for such coats is. a revelation of
true value. Others from 45/- to 180 A.
DAVID JONES
FOR SERVICE AND QUALITY.
cabin and meeting-house. When we speak
of a bluff, in the sense of a steep bank or
hill, we are using an Americanism, and when
we use “balance” to mean our balance at
the bank we are deserting “pure” English.
“Lengthy” and “reliable” are both Ameri-
canisms; and so are “law-abiding,” “gov-
ernmental” and “whole-souled.” The
earlier words came from the vivid language
of a pioneer people in contact with elemen-
tal forces. An lowa newspaper editor used
the word “blizzard” to describe a storm 60
years ago, and gained a place in the diction-
ary.
The early words included such creations
as “boom,” “zone,” “bedrock,” “bunk” and
“boarding-house”; the later ones have been
strangely flavored: “wop,” “wobbly,” “cutie,”
“butter-and-egg man.” Jefferson contributed
“belittle,” and the negro tradition has
given the colloquial address of “sister” to
any woman of the age of the speaker.
Phrases, naturally, have been adopted also.
“To feel in one’s bones” is an Americanism,
so is “To take a back seat,” and so are
“To bite off more than one can chew” and
“To blow in.” “Boss,” which has come with
them, is Dutch in origin. “Bunk” in the
sense of a berth or bed dates back
almost to the seventeenth century, while
“banjo” comes from the negroes of the
south, having been traced back to 1774.
In light of all this it seems a little late to
protest at the influence of American slang
as disseminated by the talking film. “Be-
lieve it or not” and “whoopee” and “atta-
boy” may have a barbaric sound to unac-
customed ears, but at least they also have a
barbaric vigor, and are not as drearily effete
as the phrases which are employed in
“Punch”—“too, too charming” and “utterly”
and the rest of a debased currency which
has been so worn with use. The vigorous
part of a language should be its slang; no
matter how statically beautiful the tongue
there should always be an argot, racy and
rich, as a field of recruitment. Perhaps
one of the most depressing signs in England
to-day is that the nation’s slang has lost
its vigor.
QUENTIN POPE.
Labels and Libels
Why does “Jeames” (B. 20/5/’3l) hate
Bertrand Russell so? The answer is of
importance because it helps to explain why
the world is in such a devil of a mess to-
day. “Jeames” dislikes Russell because
Russell’s mind is perpetually defining, dis-
covering, analysing, opening the tin to see
what is inside. “Jeames’s” mind is entirely
concerned with brands and stereotypes; he
is completely satisfied, intellectually and
aesthetically, with the label on the tin. He
thinks it is a valid criticism of Russell’s
philosophy that bits of it should have been
repeated on the Domain by a woman "from
Nijni-Novgorod. What is the label here?
Nijni—city of Russia: Russia —country of
the Bolsheviks: Bolsheviks—well, you know
what they are—or do you? “Jeames” does
—or thinks he does. I have been to Nijni-
Novgorod, and I found it a charming city
where intelligent people were quite, as in-
telligent and probably quite as rare as they
are in Sydney. A woman from Nijni-Nov-
gorod might quite conceivably say things
as wise as are said at a meeting of the
A.F.A.—also as silly.
Another of “Jeames’s” interesting‘Stereo-
types is his picture of me imparting the
principles of Russell to my family’by show-
ing them postcards from Port Said. Let
me correct the picture a bit. My children
have always had access when they wanted
it to any book I happen to have, and among
them is a folio of drawings by Heinrich
Kley. (Here is another label for “Jeames”:
Kley is a German). When my children first
saw the book by Kley they sniggered, not
having overcome the normal inhibitions
with regard to the nude in art which they
shared with their mates. But they soon got
used to Kley, and, as a result, I am sure
that nobody could excite them much with
postcards from Port Said.
A person can sincerely approve of many
of Russell’s ideas and yet not go as far
as doing his gardening in the nude. Per-
sonally I think it would be a most sensible
and hygienic thing to do, especially on a
warm day, but I wouldn’t dream of doing
it—for one thing, Judge Jeames, with the
approval of citizen Jeames, would promptly
put me in gaol. What “Jeames” cannot
realise is that his reaction to Russell’s
philosophy is entirely emotional, like that
of the flapper Russellites who arouse his
scorn so much. For instance, he has
raised none but emotional objections to
Russell’s ideas to date. Why hasn’t he
produced some rational confutation of Rus-
sell’s dictum that victory by arms is econo-
mically and spiritually impossible in the
present condition of society? Presumably
because he can’t.
F. S.
A Satchel of Books
Sunlight - by Phyllis Wilson
(John. Long). Flapper fodder.
London and Its Government, by Percy A.
Harris (Dent; 7s. 6d. net). London govern-
ment, as the author admits, sounds an alarm-
ing subject; but as he handles it, it isn’t.
He writes more for the benefit of outsiders
than Londoners, and deals readably with the
thousand and one things, from the old guilds
to the present problems of poverty and un-
employment, that come under the heading
of his topic. One minor item of his infor-
mation might occasion mixed thoughts in
some of those whom Frith has caricatured
m The Bulletin. It is that the Frith
Guild of Anglo-Saxon times was “more in
the nature of a friendly society organised for
the protection of life and limb.”
The Mongol in Our Midst, by F. G. Crook-
shank (Kegan Paul; 215.). This study of
the seemingly inexplicable occurrence of
mongoloids in Western Europe is an elabora-
tion of the author’s contribution to the “To-
day and To-morrow” .series of critical and
speculative booklets. He goes into his sub-
ject more deeply here and gives other and
more sweeping examples. Illustrations
further make his book a complete treatise
for its special public.
Bruce Norman’s Late of London Wall
(Arrowsmith; 7s. 6d.) is an examination by
a sharp-eyed but kindly humorist of the
reactions of a retired London business man,
aged 46, to a life of leisure. In brief, Mr.
Arthur Harrow makes an ass of himself. H'e
unjustly suspects his still-pretty wife of an
affair with a young Russian and is fatuous
enough to believe that handsome Mrs. Stein,
who has licked him at golf and dined with
him from time to time, is anxious to clear
out with him. His dismissal by that admir-
able woman gives an idea of the author’s
light, easy style:—
As she said good night to him at the door of her
hotel she murmured in an intimate undertone: “Now
you’re to forget every single word you’ve said.
You’re to remember that your little wife’s a very
dear, dear person.... I’ll be the happiest woman in
the world when you write and tell me you’ve got
rid of all your crazy nations and settled down.”
And she smiled at him, virtuously, kindly, altogether
damnably.
But he made no attempt to brain her.
So Mr. Harrow goes back to the city, which
he should never have left, and everybody is
satisfied.
All the Sinners , by Herbert Arthur (John
Long; 18s. net). Prison life, trials of crimi-
nals, brisk outlines of the stories of notori-
ous crimes, and many other aspects of crimi-
nology make up the substance of this not
over-well-written but thoroughly engaging
volume. The author has himself had a long
prison experience, which would have been
evident, _ even if he had not said so, from the
authentic * ring oL his words. He remarks
on the way that never in the whole history
of prisons have’they been so bright and sani-
tary, and, he adds, “I have no hesitation in
saying that ‘brutal methods’ are as extinct
as the dodo.” That one of the charming
people in his gallery invented the sausage-
machine might, _as the gossip-writers say,
come as a surprise to many. Or perhaps it
mightn’t.
The Captive of the Sahara, by E. M. Hull
(Methuen; 7s. 6d. net). Isma Crichton is
the idiot who _ falls into the hands of an
amorous Arab in this one. With the excep-
tion of the name she is a replica of the nice
girls who have trod the weepful desert Cal-
vary before her:—
For hours afterwards she had lain, still seeming
to feel the pressure of his encircling arms, the
scorching flame of his kisses on her lips.
Would kisses alone content him next time?
Blinding tears welled in her eyes ,again, and im-
patiently she brushed them away. Tears couldn’t
help or undo what she had done.... But, oh, dear
God, if the suffering could only be hers alone, if
only David had not to suffer too. And he would
never know now that she loved him.
Of c°urs e be does. It comes on p. 272, after
Said, of the flaming kisses, has been suitably
disposed of:— ;
But do you want me—oh, David, do you really
want me still?”
In one stride he was beside her, his tired eyes
blazing with the passionate love she had
thought she would never see again.
T “Want you? My God!” he breathed.
It may be tripe,-but it is tripe dished up by
an expert.
Guy Pocock/ author; of Somebody Must
(Dent; 7s. 6d. net), appears to*-have set out
with the best artistic intentions. He no
doubt meant to tell the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth about the
Lamburns,, wlio lost * their money and had
to .exchange a middle-class home
for a*terrace-house in Kentish-Town, which
contains 'some 'of north-east. LondopV most
’'sordid'shuns. For more . than half the story
lie is ruthless, sparing dear old Mr. Lam-
burn, his angelic wife and their chil-
dren, relations and friends none of the
miseries and indignities which accompany
abject poverty. Then he lets a desire for a
happy ending, or his innate sentimentality,
get the better of him, and causes things to go
incredibly well for his sympathetic charac-
ters. What a pity! Here is a writer with
rare gifts—humor, insight, observation, a
Dickensian ear for dialect, a notable power
of expression. H’e could have made a fine
book of “Somebody Must” if he had shown
the altruistic Edward struggling on with his
family on his back to the end. Yet, for all
its sloppiness andiinsincerities, this is a book
to get and keep. . *
And a Little Verse
Listen ! The butcher-bird—the conjuror!...'
Peer through . the' blinding noon and see
him' there, ' - . w.
Perched on that scraggy. whitewood, rising
_ "bare .* ■ >r■» * ,■. . *
Against'the white-hot t plain. His pure notes
soar • -
Unlinkdd and lovely as-first‘drops of rain—•
Cool, cool as,rivulets of longed-for rain.
Out of this burning ,agpny of light.
Out of the parched and sun-tormented.day,
He conjures up the benison 'of night .
In green hushed valleys half a world away ;
Of twilit cloisters where grave monks are
pacing, -. =. . **.: >
Of vaulted aisles where i pilgrims kneel at
prayer, ,‘ ;
Bell-towers grey, circled with swallows
tracing
Arabesques on the primrose evening air.
All things remote and cool this song of his
Brings to the aching eyelids of the mind.
But best of all his conjuring is this •
A black-birch wood with lonely paths that
wmd
Up and still up; murmur of waters falling*
Smell of wet mould ; a sudden tui calling ’
And Heaven and earth adrip with summer
rain....
Open your eyes: only the glaring plain
But clear as mountain streams the sweet
notes pour.
Listen ! The butcher-bird —the conjuror !
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN MCKAY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.K.: Thank you; glad to know they’re
appreciated. .. .Loe: All depression verse now being
interred in Lang’s Savings Bank... . G.N.: Not quite
to the point, which is that many have not only seen
those things as you see them but written about them
as you write about them ... .M.R.W.L.: The moral
of the “Cyclist’s Warning” suffers from acute punc-
ture.... Jix: If you could hit on brighter ideas
you’d find print... .M.S. (W.A.) : Sounds like
preaching... .E.M.: No rush here for the wine that
leaves the cup with blackened sides.... W.M.:
“Springtime.” Y-y-yes, it’s a 1-1-lovely w-w-warm
d-d-day, isn’t it ?.... N.P.: Fair, but smacks a bit
too much of Keats-and-lamp-oil, and lines like “Thou
art more sweet than any angel heard” suggest a
telescopic ear R.T.: A little faint 1/4 a
Bushel: Trouble with things that may be economi-
cally very sound is that poetically they are only
sound... .Kat: Arresting lines from “The Runt”:—
The tout who tipped Australia for a mighty race
Will, I think, be wide of the mark ;
He saw not her eye or defaulting face
When he tried her out in the dark.
At best she’s only a fair-weather horse
With a thick inflated coat,
And with her burden she’ll never get round the
course,
But run like a hairy goat.
. ...0.F.: Chief trouble is that you’re running a bit
off our track... .T.H.V.: Just what do you mean
by “I must list to their doom”? R.E.: It’s
no use writing about not being able to write....
Humos: Watery... .G.E.F.: Overawed by the picture
of man struggling in a “strangling, fiendish gripe.”
. —R.J.G.: Admire your sincerity, but get down to
the job of overcoming your deficiencies instead of
talking about them. Reading good verse will mend
most of them... .F.W-C.: Don’t be misled by notion
that “no inspiration is needed to make my subject
clear”... .Nauticus: No use for that brand of verse.
. ...Elstrew: Failed to live up to the exciting pro-
mise contained in the bursting of the skipper’s sus-
penders.... W.G.N. (Maoriland): Imitation of Kip-
lings “If” brings you under Official Curse A 111,175.
. ...P.P.: Pale, pale !... .G.R.V.: Sounds like a
true story, but not much like a poem.... Slogger:
Fight it out in the w.p.b Bellerive: Ferocious
item:—
BOA-CONSTRICTOR OF THE TROPICS.
Of gigantic length ’twill
Rise on its tail
And elevate its head
When about to assail.
’Twill emerge from its lair
On the alert for prey
Which ’twill grimly incoil
In a ferocious way.
Make a meal of its victim
And till the repast digest
In its sheltered lair
Will drowsily rest.
(Next: “The Cow Fish.”)
. ...A.T.D.: Stale... .W.P.: Smartly written, but
plot is incredible... .F.S.: Lurid adjectives and little
else... .0.G.: Saunters along to an unconvincing
finish T.M.: Put more snap into it C.H.K.:
Rather crude in style; not bad otherwise. .. .11. N.:
Ten thousand words is far too long for u5....R.L.:
A bit too technical for average consumption....
H.P.H.: Where it is not\ oozing platitudes it is in-
volved and obscure A.M.: That type of fallen
angel has been wept over too often F.L.T.: In-
different prose and the plot has whiskers N.C.8.:
Too slight... .E.M.: An inconclusive fragment....
A.K. : Still wondering who killed Old Joe —that is
if Joe was killed... .G.W.: Told to you by a com-
mercial traveller? Then you may wager it isn’t
new. .. .W.J.P.: Slushy imitation of Charles Garvice
at his slushiest E. J. J.: Spiritless L.S.C.: Needs
a lot of cutting, especially in the earlier parts.
. ...W.J.: Newchums who master the worst nags on
the station went out of fashion years ago F.D.:
Old Bulletin yarn (“The Parson’s Blackboy”) in
a modern dress A.MeB.: Of some human interest
but hardly printable G.S.: Australians may 50
years hence talk like present-day Americans, but
they certainly didn’t do so 20 years ago Y.P.:
“Echo Point” started out with an original idea but
got stuck in the bog of melodrama E.H.S.: A
willing scrap but no story W.W.: Reads like an
extract from a book offering advice to the newly-
married H.M.K.: For a start, cut the preten-
tious introduction G.L.: Dull description of dull
boarding-house 8.A.G.: Don’t care for allegories.
P.M.H.: Mount Wingen has smoked in print
often... .W.E.G.: Public is asking for a rest from
war horrors.... J.8.T.: Love affair pretty cheap ; and
we miss your usual neat touch in the other
Manna: If this lot fell from Heaven it must have
been during a drought Simon L.: Doesn’t draw
the weight, though it is well done... .Helena J. H.:
Ditto; in fact, very well done... .G.0.C.: Found the
end nearly as hard to reach as the South Pole.
Maybe harder; we haven’t tried the South Pole yet.
....Robert C.: Better for a daily paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.E.: Faint pencil scratches never score.... J.8.G.:
If you ever walk up George-street, have a look at
the originals in the front window. It will give you
an idea of what we want... .A.D.M.: Only fair....
T.M.: Jest is 01d....J.G.: Not above reproach as
yet... .E.E.W.: Definitely among the discards....
G. : Well, you won’t be troubled with imita-
tions L.W.: Draw them with blinkers on?
L.N.: You have some distance to go. ...G.8.: Your
libel on the mean Jew cost us 2d. for short postage.
... .H.C. : Admittedly it is hard to get an octopus as a
model, but you could have done better... .C.W.C.:
Sending them back by the next Island steamer....
H. : It landed on the rocks... .E.M.G.: Wasn’t
worth the trouble of pulling the cork out of the
inkpot... .J. 8.: No use for wooden jests and human
beings made of the same material.


*?’.U . tk l rig
: Tr^lr’lMr
*&’xA4Lt ... »j
t II
, JCJ
-
1
■
I 1
■ .
H
INI
■MI
M
: : v
■ S
m
■
? i
Mil
' ww
HSHi
iii
mam
«11l
11
«c *
1 *
..; ; I
H
mm
«
.•
mm
M
s:
«a
1 ,
0
fc'-
' K
v v
;
■
'
.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52 —No. 2678.
June 10, 1931.
STRANGE BEDFELLOWS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2S21BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : ll!,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
London : 36 Sotithampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 5d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
IS THERE A WAY OUT?—YES!
In some respects the Melbourne conference
has confused the issues. We have two debt
problems and not one; for the problem of
our external debt is entirely distinct from
that of our internal debt. Yet, though the
external-debt problem is more complicated,
that of the internal debt has had almost ex-
clusive attention.
At the end of June, 1930, we owed in
Australia 527 millions and overseas 573
millions. Both principal and interest of
the Australian debt are payable in paper;
both principal and interest of the other are
payable in gold. Now, payment in paper
is a very simple matter; and the tremendous
mouthful that has been made of it in Mel-
bourne is wholly due to the fact that the
men composing the conference are poli-
ticians, many of them in deadly fear of
losing their jobs. It is very simple because
taxation will pay the interest bill, which is
all that is worrying us at present; and in
the last resort the interest itself can be
made to provide the necessary taxation. In
other words, there is no statutory limit to
the amount which public securities that are
not tax-free can be taxed.
There are, of course, other considerations.
Excessive taxation would make the renewal
of old loans and the floating of new ones
almost, if not quite, impossible; and that is
a danger which has to be guarded against.
It can be guarded against easily enough.
The two great demands made upon our
public revenues are for (1) interest, and
(2) services. Thus of the total State ex-
penditure of 121 millions for the last year
for which complete details are available
(1928-29), 35 millions went in interest and
sinking fund; the other 86 millions paid for
departmental services. The total amount
of taxation required will thus obviously
depend upon the degree of economy (if
any) exercised in the spending of the 86
millions.
The best test of whether we are being
reasonably economical is a comparison of
expenditure now and in former years. Far
more striking comparisons could be pro-
duced by going back to the beginnings of
Federation; but starting from the war years
we get these results:—•
State Expenditure per Head.
1916 .. £lO 3 1 1927 .. £lB 14 1
1920 . . 13 14 7 1928 . . 18 17 3
1925 .. 17 1 0 1929 .. 19 2 5
Commonwealth Expenditure per Head.
1916 .. £4 19 0 1927 .. £l2 7 7
1920 . . 8 15 7 1928 . . 13 3 6
1925 .. 11 12 9 1929 .. 12 16 9
Combined Expenditure per Head.
1916 .. £l5 2 1 I 1927 .. £3l 1 8
1920 .. 22 10 2 1928 .. 32 0 9
1925 .. 28 14 3 | 1929 .. 31 19 2
The increase in departmental expenditure is
appalling; and among the worst offenders
have been the Parliaments themselves. The
total cost of the Commonwealth Parliament
in 1916 was £263,397; in 1929 it was
£557,245.
We reach this point then: since interest
on internal debt is payable with paper, and
since there is no limit to the tax which may
be collected in paper on the people’s in-
come, default internally can result from only
one of two things: (1) Neglect to impose
high enough taxes; (2) the diversion of too
much of the tax-money to other purposes
than the payment of interest. The figures
just presented show conclusively which of
the two has happened in Australia. There
is no clear call here for the compulsory
conversion of loans or for any breach of
contract whatever. There is a clear call for
the practice of economy combined with
such taxation of interest as may be neces-
sary to balance the budget after the econo-
mies in public expenditure have been made.
The payment of the gold debt required
by our external obligations is more compli-
cated and more difficult. This is not a
simple matter of collecting paper taxes and
cutting down public-service expenditure.
This is a matter also of landing overseas
enough goods to pay for our imports and
liquidate our interest and other debt charges
as well; and here a multitude of outside
influences get to work, because those goods
have to be sold in competition with the
world. We have made a certain amount of
progress; we have cut down our imports
very severely; but the world prices of our
export staples, especially our wool and our
wheat, have fallen so badly that we are still
millions a year short of the required
amount.
The immediate reduction of imports has
probably gone far enough and in a few
respects too far, inasmuch as the introduc-
tion of necessary raw material is now being
affected; the total of merchandise of all
kinds brought in during April was £2,827,482
compared with £8,892,409 in April, 1930.
The exports, though they have been affected
by low prices, have fairly held their own,
so far as aggregate value is concerned. The
excess of exports for the first 10 months of
this financial year is estimated at £19,900,000
sterling, and that is at the rate of £23,880,000
for the year. From that, however, has to
be deducted at least millions of gold ex-
ported in excess of current production,
leaving approximately 16 millions sterling
as our probable real excess of exports for
the year. Our overseas interest debt is
approximately 28 millions sterling. We shall
thus be about 12 millions short on the year.
But the position is really a little better
than that. We have, as we have seen, been
reducing our imports all the year; and if
our total for the year were the average of
the past three months, it would amount to
42 millions instead of the 59 millions it
actually will be. If we can keep our im-
ports down to 48 millions (which is well
over our average for three months past),
and maintain the aggregate sterling value
of our exports at 80 millions, which is within
this year’s figure, we shall have a surplus
of 32 millions sterling, which is more than
ample to pay our gold debts.
But we cannot go on as we have been
doing for the past 12 months. We have
only reached these export figures by half-
starving our primary producers, and plung-
ing thousands of them into debt. We
cannot keep them on the land under the
conditions they have had to put up with
during the past two years. To maintain
our figures, then, we must give them some
relief; and the only relief that is worth
while is a wholesale reduction in their costs
of production. And that brings us back to
where Niemeyer left us in July, 1930:
Costs must come down. Australian standards have
been pushed too high relatively to Australian pro-
ductivity and to general world conditions and ten-
dencies. If Australia does not face that issue she
will not be able to keep even those standards which
she might hope to carry by taking timely action
and she will see an inevitable increase in unem-
ployment.
We have seen the standard of living reduced
to the gutter for tens of thousands of our
most estimable citizens; and we still see
the vast army of unemployed grow. On
the other hand, all the figures which the
past 12 months have been writing for us
support Niemeyer’s encouraging postscript:
The situation is difficult, and calls for a considered
programme and united action. But I wish to make
it quite clear that, given determined action, it is in
no way beyond control. The difficulties of Aus-
tralia are not comparable with those from which
many other countries have successfully emerged, and
have only to be squarely faced to be capable of
solution.
THE NATIONAL HONOR.
The time has surely come when Australians
should ask themselves whether they are
not losing their old standards of honesty and
uprightness. There have been signs of a
gradual weakening of the moral fibre for
some years past; but during recent months
we seem to have rushed down the steep
place and to a large extent taken our Gov-
ernments with us. We have seen Ministers
calmly and deliberately steering for default
and repudiation, and justifying those things
on the ground that, if they did not default
and repudiate, their political friends and
supporters would have to give up some of
the good things they had bought with other
people’s money. Many an honest man, it
is admitted, has been unable to pay his
debts: he has been the victim of less honest
men, or his money has been taken from a
savings bank and dissipated by the politi-
cians who guaranteed its safety, or he has
been the victim of plagues or bad seasons. It
is not whether a man pays that matters
morally: it is whether he honestly tries to
pay, whether he makes reasonable sacrifices
in his struggle to pay. How do we answer
to such a test to-day?
When it was realised that we were in
great difficulties the Scullin Government
accepted what is known as the Melbourne
agreement. It had just heard what its
financial advisers had to say, and it adopted
a programme which, in its own words, “will
require substantial sacrifices on the part of
all sections of the community.” But, it
added, it was “the only way” to avoid
“national disgrace and dishonor.” Then,
having reached this most proper conclusion,
the members of the conference went out
among the people of Australia. That was
in August, 1930. Mr. Scullin and two of his
colleagues hurried off to London, from
which centre, remote from Australia, they
made observations in complete accord with
the Melbourne agreement.
Meantime in Australia very different
things were happening. Pressure was
brought to bear upon several of Scullin’s
colleagues and supporters. So-called Labor
executives began to pass resolutions de-
nouncing the Melbourne resolutions. Then
the Federal Labor caucus got busy and
passed other resolutions, which Scullin, still
outside Australian influences, declared to be
“absolute repudiation,” and therefore “dis-
honest and disastrous.” Still later he cabled
his colleagues in Australia that “the Gov-
ernment proposal is to ask bondholders
voluntarily to renew their bonds. To en-
force renewal by refusing to pay the debts
for a year is repudiation. The law would
not permit that in private transactions, and
no one mindful of his personal honor would
do it in private life.” In a postscript he
said that “Brennan and Moloney concur”
—they too were outside Australian influ-
ences at the moment.
A general election in N. S. Wales came
soon after this. Lang, though maintaining
a violent offensive against the Melbourne
agreement, also declared that his party
would have nothing to do with repudiation.
He was triumphant'; and Scullin, faced with
this significant result and back now among
Australian influences, sagged at the knees.
The Melbourne agreement was thrust aside
and forgotten; in its place a new scheme of
“fiduciary notes” was brought forward,
although Scullin (away from Australia) had
declared inflation to be an abomination.
Within three months the anti-repudiationist
Lang, elected now for three years and with
a powerful majority behind him, had un-
folded his plan also: that no further interest
be paid to British bondholders “until Britain
has dealt with Australian overseas debts in
the same manner as she settled her own
foreign debt with America,” and that “in
Australia interest on all Government bor-
rowings be reduced to 3 per cent.” As for
the proposal to cut down expenses and
thus attempt to pay the interest agreed
upon, Lang’s reply was to promise to remove
even the small reduction which had been
made m public-service salaries and to
restore the 44-hour week. It was in such
an atmosphere the Premiers met again in
Melbourne at the end of May. “Equality
of sacrifice 1” was now the specious cry;
and with the smallest possible regard for
contracts the conference proceeded to accept
a scheme of loan conversion at a low rate
of interest, while the Prime Minister, his
Treasurer and two State Premiers approved
the taxation of tax-free issues. There was
even at one time a question whether all
this would be accompanied by any attempt
at real economies within the public service.
It has been admitted already that it is
not necessarily dishonest to default. But
what can we say of a people who proceed
to consider schemes for evading their debts
without first using every effort to pay those
debts; who indeed cry out for “equality of
sacrifice,” meaning that those who have
already purchased, for example, freedom
from taxation shall be penalised with the
rest? And what can we say of a Prime
Minister who less than a year ago said that
“no man mindful of his personal honor”
would “enforce renewal [of a loan] by re-
fusing to pay the debts for a year,” and now
puts through a scheme for compelling re-
newal of a loan at greatly reduced interest
by threats of punitive taxation in case of
refusal? And what shall we say of a people
whose only comment, so far as many of
them are concerned, is that Scullin and Lang
are traitors for agreeing to Labor making
any contribution at all?
Has class-consciousness reached a point
at which it can call upon people to sacri-
fice to it their personal as well as the
national honor?
RESULTS OF THE “LANG PLAN.”
When John Thomas Lang pledged him-
self to “find the money to complete all those
uncompleted public works in which many
millions of borrowed money are lying idle,”
no section rejoiced more than the Railway
Workers’ branch of the AW.U. Since the
Lang plan was changed from borrowing to
bilking, no section has been harder hit.
In brighter days the members of this
A.W.U. branch were nearly all Government
employees, the capitalistic oppressor being
barred from the field in which they toiled.
Now, as the organisation bitterly reports,
“the cutting-doiwn of public works has
thrown thousands of them out of employ-
ment,” and grave fears are entertained
regarding 1300 more. The 1300 are engaged
on Sydney’s city railway, the approaches to
the Harbor Bridge, the Moss Vale-Port
Kembla and Tempe-East Hills construction
works. “These big national undertakings,”
it is gloomily stated, “are being constructed
out of loan money; the last appropriation
for them was made when the Nationalist
Government was in office; the fact that no
budget has yet been delivered is lending
color to the statement that the money for
these works is practically exhausted.”
The Moss Vale-Port Kembla and Tempe-
East Hills lines are mentioned by the
Railway Commissioners in their report for
1929-30. The first was expected to cost
£1,385,200 and the second £709,900; and
annual losses are estimated at £76,100 on
the costlier length and £62,400 on the other;
Long practice has made the Commisioners
expert at estimating annual losses; in the
same report they give a list of 10 lines,
recommended by the Public Works Com-
mittee (all politicians, who get special fees
for their ruinous recommendations) and
authorised by Parliament, on which antici-
pated revenue is nearly half a million short
of anticipated expenditure. On “develop-
mental” lines, they declare, 1929-30 losses
amounted to £1,950,000; on all lines,
£3,556,300.
The Lang Plan (that is, the February one)
is having consequences undreamed of by
its author. It smashed the Government
Savings Bank, when the intention was to
smite “hungry” bondholders, and it is stop-
ping railway construction, because the bond-
holders, “hungry” and otherwise, have cut
off supplies. So there will be no Eastern
Suburbs railway, no Western Suburbs rail-
way, no line from Inverell to Ashford, nor
any from Canowindra to Gregia; and buying
votes with promises of railways will cease
to be one of the tricks of the politician’s
trade—for the next five years at least. Also,
the plan is shortening the planner’s Parlia-
mentary life by enabling his dupes to find
him out much sooner than would otherwise
have been the case. Before long bands of
deluded workers, satisfied that there is
nothing more to hope from him and that he
is a mere political bully and windbag who
has made a bad situation immeasurably
worse, will be calling on Caucus to depose
him. The Railway Workers’ branch of the
A.W.U. will be at the head of the procession.
A PEACE-TIME CENSORSHIP.
Last week the N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges,
having been invited to report on the law-reform
parts of the Attorney-General’s Administration of
Justice Bill, unanimously declared that “it would
prove unworkable in practice and aggravate immea-
surably the evils that it is designed to cure.” In
this article a barrister who has given special atten-
tion to the law relating to slander and libel dis-
cusses the parts of the same bill which seek to alter
the law as to sedition and defamation.
It will be a queer turn of fate if N. _S.
Wales is the first part of the British Empire
for over a century to declare in peace-time
for the Tudor attitude towards critics of
the Government. It was to N. S. Wales
that Muir and Palmer were sent for criticis-
ing the rotten boroughs and limited fran-
chise on which the Government of their
time depended for power, and the feeling
here, even amongst many officials, was in
their favor, though both were long-sentence
men. The feeling was so strong in America,
which had recently passed the First Amend-
ment to its Constitution (“Congress shall
make no law abridging the freedom of
speech, or of the press”), that an expedition
was organised in New York to free them.
The Lvsaght bill aims at making criticism
outside Parliament of Ministers a criminal
offence. Uncertainty is the essence of it.
If you commit forgeiy, burglary or what
not you know where you are, but it is
impossible to define all defamation in terms
of criminality. It is a border-line offence.
Words that are harmless to-day may be
deadly to-morrow, and opinions that seem
sound to one juror are often poison to
another. Juries have never been much use
as guardians of political liberties, anyhow,
partly for the reasons given above, and
partly because, before the end of the eight-
eenth century, they functioned under a
handicap. The worst injustices of Stuart
times were perpetrated by Judges sitting
with juries. The same in the eighteenth
century. There was trial by jury during the
French Terror.
What the N. S. Wales Government is, of
course, after is a censorship, similar, in effect,
to the war-time one of the Hughes Govern-
ment. There were no censorships, as we
understand them, before the nineteenth cen-
tury, but Governments got there just the
same. Blackstone defined the law as it
stood before Fox’s Libel Act (1792): “The
liberty of the press.... consists in laying no
previous restraints upon publications, and
not in freedom from censure for criminal
matter when published.” All the doctrine
of “previous restraints” meant was that no
one could be prohibited from speaking or
writing against a Government. Once the
criticism was made, though, anything was
liable to happen. The Government said to
the citizens in so many words: “No one is
going to stop you saying what you like
about the crimes committed by Ministers.
This is a free country, thank God! But
if you do say anything you will almost
certainly go to gaol.” A Parliament, how-
ever loudly it talks of its reverence for
freedom of the press and so on, but which
holds a criminal prosecution over anyone
who speaks freely about it, is no different
in practice from the one Milton pilloried in
“Areopagitica.” That is the kind of Par-
liament Mr. Lang will have at his disposal
if the Council lets the Justice Bill through
without radical amendments.
Mr. Lang’s ambition in the matter is
logical and consistent. All the controver-
sies over liberties of speech and writing
have arisen out of conflicts of opinion as to
whether Governments should be the masters
of the people, or vice versa. In Tudor and
Stuart times the Governments, which were
the sovereigns, had no doubts on the sub-
ject. Then came an interlude when political
liberty began to assert itself, and the prin-
ciple was gradually established that Govern-
ments were the servants of the people.
After the war came the Soviet and Fascist
dictatorships, and the slogan “Political
liberty is a festering corpse, and ripe for
burial.” Our Labor leaders, and the union
bosses who control them from the Trades
Hall, don’t talk quite so frankly, not being
in a strategic position to do so yet, but
all their recent actions —their passion for
administering by boards and regulations
without reference to Parliament, and their
threats against those who criticise their
doings—show where their thoughts are.
Fox’s Libel Act was hailed by freedom-
lovers as a charter of liberty just on 140
years ago, because for the first time m his-
tory it gave British jurors the right to say
that all defamation was not necessarily
criminal. But prosecutions still went on,
until a line was drawn between civil and
criminal libel and slander. The Lang Gov -
eminent wants to blot out that line b>
making it an indictable offence for the people
to object openly to the doings of their over-
lords, the party politicians in power One
doesn’t need much knowledge of history to
realise what a hell N. S. Wales would soon
become as a place of residence under such
an arrangement.
INNER TEMPLE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
We Are Paying Our Way!
In their raw state our trade figures are
nowadays quite misleading, mainly because
the £ Australian is worth a good deal less
than the. £', English. Professor Giblin, the
acting Commonwealth Statistician, has done
us the good service this month of trying to
express the figures in sterling; at the same
time, realising that the recorded value of
some exports—butter, for example—is fre-
quently above sterling value, he has sug-
gested amended estimates on that account.
For the 10 months to the end of April the
Customs figures show £29,903,971 surplus of*
exports over imports, as against £8,282,082
excess of imports for the corresponding
months of last year—a swing of £38,186,053
towards sanity and solvency. Professor
Giblin, however, estimates the total sterling
value of the merchandise exports to be
£66,366,000 as against £81,613,371 for the 10
months of last year. The curse of low prices
thus brought our merchandise exports down
£15,247,371 below those for 10 months of
last year. But imports have been cut down
from £116,029,724 to £54,277,018, a reduction
of £61,752,706.
We may therefore put the general result
of 10 months’ operations this way:—
Ten Months’ Trade Expressed in £ English.
Exports— 1929-30. 1930-31.
Merchandise .. ..'£81,613,371 £66,365,731
Gold 1,500,000 1,500,000
Total .. ..£83,113,371 £67,865,731
Imports 115,833,023 53,972,193
. Excess imports.. .. £32,719,652
Excess exports .. .. £13,893,538
The swing to sanity and solvency is the
total of these two amounts, £46,613,190.
That is for 10 months; on the same basis
the improvement for the year will be
£55,935,828, and the surplus of exports will
be £16,672,245. Throughout these figures the
export of gold in excess of the estimated
production of £150,000 per month has been
disregarded.
For some months past it has been the
common practice to reckon from 35 to 36
millions as the amount of Australia’s annual
overseas debt. This, however, includes ex-
change; the figure in £ English is about 28
millions. There is still a wide gap between
our 16 millions available and the 28 millions
required; but the gap narrows appreciably
when it is remembered that the imports for
the past three months averaged £3,511,873,
whereas the average for the first three
months of the year was £6,740,411.
There is distinct encouragement in the
figures. But there would be more if the
improvement was not wholly due to
decrease of imports. Decrease of imports
would be an excellent thing, of course, if it
was accompanied by increase of home pro-
duction; but there is no evidence whatever
of that. All that we can say definitely is
that at the present moment we are not going
further into debt. On the averages of the
past quarter our monthly exports are well
over three millions ahead of imports; and
that, being well in excess of the amount
required to pay our interest, should soon
have its effect on the exchange position.
The return to par will ease the present tax
burden of Australia by little short of
£10,000,000 a year.
• ♦
Employees of Protected Industries.
Dear Bulletin, —That is a wonderful sug-
gestion of Mr. Gullett’s, to pension off the
employees in protected Australian industries
—about two millions of them, by the way,
But it doesn’t take into account the need
for also .pensioning off some of the unpro-
tected, who are dependent on these indus-
tries. Bryant and May peel up about
1,000,000 super, feet per annum of Queens-
land logs. What about the timber-getters
and the . timber-workers, the deckhands, the
wharfies and the carters who handle this
vast bulk? And what about the glue-
makers (we are the second largest users
of glue in the Commonwealth) and the
makers of stearine—we use nine tons every
week. And the Australian paper- and
board-makers—our account with the local
paper co. averages £3OOO per month,
the bulk of which must be paid out again
by them in wages, and so on, and so forth.
We fancy that it will take more than Mr.
Gullett to persuade the public that ours is
not a very valuable industry. Now that
we make here, as well as repair, most of
our new machinery, we have 30 engineers
working in our machine-shop, and have,
over years, trained many young men for
the purpose. But for our enterprise and
scores of others like it there would be very
little work in Australia for skilled artisans.
Probably Mr. Gullett hasn’t thought of
that.—Sincerely, Bryant & May Pty., Ltd.
• $
Conversion v. Taxation.
Conversion should not have been con-
sidered by the Premiers’ conference except
as a last resort. It seems, however, to have
been submitted to because of the urgent
plea for “equality of sacrifice.” But for
a man on a salary to accept a reduction of
20 per cent, is by no means the same as for
a man with a 5 per cent. Government bond
to convert it to one carrying 4 per cent.
It is true that at the outset each sacrifices
20 per cent, of his income; but whereas the
salary may be restored at the first sign of
better times, the 1 per cent, of interest is
gone for ever.
There was no need of conversion, anyway.
Conversion will not affect the interest out-
goings; only the rate of interest will do
that. And, except so far as tax-free securi-
ties are concerned, the rate of interest
can be governed from year to year by the
tax imposed upon them. Further, the tax
would be from year to year only: on the
restoration of prosperity the tax could be
withdrawn. That would be equality of sacri-
fice as between the wage- and salary-earner
on the one hand and the bondholder on the
other.
As for tax-free securities, , nothing but
absolute failure to balance budgets in any
other way will or ever can justify their
taxation. Something no doubt could be
done voluntarily with them. An appeal to
the patriotism and even the justice of their
holders might well be made: it might be
put to them that they would suffer no loss
through accepting a lower rate of interest
in view of the rise in the purchasing power
of money—interest included. But to tell
the holder who does not voluntarily con-
vert that he will be penalised if he doesn’t
is to speak words on behalf of Australia
which every honorable citizen should feel
shamed to hear.
• ♦
Can Australia Afford a Navy?
Dear Bulletin. —“X.N.O.’s” par. should
have been headed (B. 27/5/’31): “Can Aus-
tralia afford to be without a navy?”
Remarks as to the Australian Navy being
brought up under different conditions and
with different ideas from those prevailing
in the Mother Service are always liable to
be misleading. With the comprehensive
system of interchange of officers and men,
and despite the temporarily suspended inter-
change of ships, there is complete similarity
of training between R.N. and R.A.N. units.
That complete harmony existed between
R.N. and R.A.N. ships during the Great
War was evident to those who served in
Australian destroyers in the Adriatic, the
Australia in the North Sea, or any other
Australian unit in any theatre of operations.
One has only to recall the fine perform-
ance of Australian units, such as the
Adelaide with the Special Service Squadron
and the Brisbane in the Mediterranean, to
appreciate why very senior R.N. officers
openly avow that our ships and men know
their jobs and will fulfil all obligations.
Australia has lived up to the Imperial agree-
ment of 1909 by word and by deed. To
disband our navy would be to scrap the
glorious traditions created by an infant
service during tremendous times.
Beyond the matter of ships and dock-
yards, there is something which “X.N.0.”
has overlooked. It is the development of
the sea-sense of our people. Our ships
may not be a decisive factor in war, but
without our navy the sea-sense which is
vital to. any far-flung empire, and especially
to our island-continent, will be almost lost.
Our Mercantile Marine looks to our navy;
and, given time, one will be a healthy
recruiting-ground for the other.
As foi a cash contribution towards Empire
defence, reference to present exchange
rates should dispel this idea. Money voted
to the R.A.N. is largely spent in Australia
and mostly remains in the country.
Let the last word in reply be an excerpt
from a considered speech delivered in 1923
by the First Lord of the Admiralty. He said:
“The defence of an empire.... cannot be
sustained indefinitely by one small island
in the North Sea. It is to the younger
navies of the Empire, based upon the strong
and vigorous national life of great and
growing communities linked with ours in
the most intimate unity of tradition and
thought and training, that we must look
in the future, as well as to that old parent
navy of imperishable past renown, but also
of unquenchable youth and vigor.”—Yours
truly, Dolphin.
4
The Danger of a Little Learning.
An increasing number of unprejudiced
people are beginning to wonder whether
mass education is worth while. Britain was
badly bitten in the middle of last century,
and the infection spread gradually east,
passed through Europe, and in our own day
has been producing results in farthest Asia.
Schools, with universities to follow, sprang
up like mushrooms, and at these founda-
tions the poorest could drink his fill of the
fountain of knowledge if clever and indus-
trious enough—a heady draught it has
proved for many.
The most notable outcome of this welter
of opportunity has been the machine pro-
duction of thousands of people who, scorn-
ing the arts and crafts of their fathers, have
set their faces towards white-collar jobs,
In all countries on which mass education
has settled, the trend of its talkative pro-
ducts has been towards professional politics
and State employment, the result being a
horde of incompetents intent on extracting
their bread from the State by fair means
or foul. Naturally it has not taken long
before all the coveted burrows have been
filled. Nothing has been left in that case
for the hungry and disappointed place-
seekers but to devise new burrows or means
of digging out their more fortunate breth-
ren from the old ones,
To this situation must be ascribed the
political and industrial unrest now preva-
lent the world over. The first recent in-
stance was that of Russia, where more than
anywhere else numbers of semi-educated
unemployables were raised to become later
the main factor in the destruction of the
empire. It is this sour leaven in the body
politic which is responsible for the periodical
Egyptian outbreaks. Agitation of the same
sort and with the same objective in' India
is entirely directed and controlled by the
half-baked intelligentsia, so called and the
same is true of modem China Spain has
chiefly the insubordinate “stndpnt” P nlomon+ 0 n+
* iSrr
n f nt ’ crammed at home or abroad with
is - inca P able of P utting
£ to fectlv . e Practice, is a very real danger
m ° St to 0 “ee eS in tO Ru S a |a, the
ST =
kind, and, through sheer indifference or un-
willingness to face unpleasant problems, has
allowed the blatant minority to assume a
position of far greater importance than it
deserves.
Australia, unhappily, is not excepted from
the invasion. During the past generation
there has grown up in this country, or been
imported into it, nurfibers of machine-
crammed cranks vociferous with plans for
bringing about the millennium and filling
their own pockets in the process. Their
‘'education” is akin to that of Kipling’s
Tomlinson: "This I have read and this I-
have heard.” The education that incul-
cates probity, industry, a sense of propor-
tion, self-restraint and tolerance is a sealed
book to people like this, and will always be
so while the nations fatuously engage on
the mass production of silk purses from
sows’ ears and the extraction of sunbeams
from cucumbers.
*
Railways and xheii* Future.
Theories as to why railways, pretty nearly
everywhere in the world, have ceased to be
profit-earning services are plentiful. Motor
competition, inefficient management, ex-
travagant building of new lines, overstaffing
and the Government stroke, where that last
can be made applicable, are favorite reasons.
But underlying all have been the startling
variations in the purchasing power of money.
Take the case of N. S. Wales. During
the period 1906-12, when motor competition
was just dawning, there was frantic expan-
sion of expenditure. Though the population
of the State in those six years increased
by only 7.56 per cent., the railway mileage
was increased by 13.03 per cent., and the
tramway mileage by 55.06 per cent., involv-
ing increases of capital liability of 22.66
and 54.37 per cent, respectively. The
number of railway employees was increased
by 114.87 per cent., and of tramway employ-
ees 109.14 per cent.; but as wages fell about
16 per cent, in the period, the increase in l
the pay-rolls was only 76.99 per cent, and
74.47 per cent, respectively. Money cheap-
ened, too, during the six years, and the
rate of interest payable on all the capital
employed was slightly reduced owing to the
advantageous terms on which the new
money was borrowed. Both railways and
tramways, at the end of the period, were
showing a modest surplus after paying
working expenses and interest.
In the period June 1912 to 1930. which
brings us well into the era when deficits
were an annual habit, railway mileage went
ahead 55.89 per cent., tramways 7.51 per
cent. The increase in the number of rail-
way employees was 53.18 per 'cent., and of
tramway employees 28.65 per cent.—prob-
ably more than they should be, but statisti-
cally not far out of keeping with the
expansion of population. But this was a
period, in the main, of rising prices and
higher interest. With 56 per cent, added to
the railroad mileage there was an increase
of capital of 152 per cent. With 74- per cent,
added to the length of tramway tracks there
was an increase in capital liability of 107.7
per cent. The interest rate on the whole of the
capital involved rose one-third in the case
of the railways and nearly one-half in the
case of the tramways. The average railway
wage rose 160 per cent., and tramway wage
127 per cent in the period, so that the pay-
rolls increased by 272 per cent, and 1921-
per cent, respectively. Possibly had these
Government services been able to main-
tain their monopoly they could have met
their vastly increased expenditure by in-
creasing freights and fares, but attempts in
that direction have merely resulted in the
creation of privately-owned motor transport
services, which, while they could not possibly
cope with even a third of the traffic were
the Government services abolished to-
morrow, have imposed hard limits on Gov-
ernment transport charges.
There is not any easy solution of the
problem thus thrust upon the people of
N. S. Wales, and (since the condition of.
N. S. Wales is typical) of all other States.
Railway and tramway working expenses no
doubt can be considerably reduced without
impairing 'the efficiency of the services, but
even so it will take a very long time before
half the errors of the past can be atoned for,
and the probability that these services will
ever again be self-supporting is remote.
Directly or indirectly they must lean upon
the taxpayer.
The more obvious that dependence is
made the better. When good times come
again it will be highly desirable that undue
optimism in railway management shall
provoke prompt and powerful resentment
Experiments in Finance.
The cable messages reporting a crisis in
Germany, accompanied by prodigious efforts
to balance the budget, ought to interest
Australian Treasurers. One early message
was especially significant: it reported that
American investments in Germany, nearly
all new, are estimated at £500,000,000. The
explanation is that note-inflation wiped out
the local investor in Germany. Now, a
great part of the investor’s income goes
back into investments; and when the in-
vestor ceased to exist, this source of capital
for national development ceased to be avail-
able, and Germany had to turn to the
foreign capitalist. It is the price the modern
nation has to pay for inflation: it has the
alternative of stagnation and unemploy-
ment or money-servitude to a foreigner.
And the same thing would happen in a
lesser way if Lang cut down all salaries
to £5OO in order to make the available
money go round better.
HER STARS WILL RISE AGAIN.
“The veil of Faith is cloven;
Our idol’s feet are clay;
Her shrine a folly proven,
Her glory passed away!”
Coarse voices, loud contending
With voices cold, severe,
In argument unending,
Afar I seemed to hear.
This early morn, unrested,
I rose with troubled mind,
By haunting doubt infested,
To olden promise blind;
And lo the sun, imprinting
“Resurgam!” clear and bold
Upon the world, was minting
The eastern clouds to gold.
The wayward bush was showing
The tender tints of spring;
And green the grass for growing,
And many birds did sing;
I heard the coachmen mating,
Their vocal whips in time;
In cadence unabating
I heard the bellbirds chime.
In reawakened fancy
I joined a tuneful band
To ride again like Clancy
Across the sunny land;
With Lawson, Quinn and Daley
I took the track away
That turns from Grenfell gaily
To find the Castlereagh.
And Kendall, sweetly mournful,
And Gordon rode ahead;
A critic tamed, but scornful,
Each poet’s pack-horse led.
My darkened soul was litten
As, falling into line,
I saw “Resurgam!” written
Upon our banners fine.
The Singing Squadron lengthened;
The pinion and the crest
Of each recruit re-strengthened
The ardor of its quest:
For, each and all, they treasured,
Whatever else might fail,
A vow to give unmeasured
Life service to the Grail.
Victoria.
Anon some novice, laden
With ballads newly made,
Or else a singing maiden
Would join the cavalcade
That, but a vanguard camping
On foothills yet of rhyme,
May lead a people, tramping
The mountain tops in time.
For, as we rode, insistent,
We heard the Anzac cheers;
And clearly, too, but distant,
The songs of pioneers.
We answered with a chorus
That, like to thunder, went
Behind us and before us
And round the Continent:
Of rivers seaward winding
From hills of purple haze,
Of millwheels smoothly grinding
The spoil of harvest days;
Of woolsheds wide, resounding
The praises of the fold;
Of stampers loudly pounding
The desert reefs to gold;
Of winds with laughter driving
The tearful clouds away;
Of honey-bees a-hiving—
All songs of night and day,
With ne’er a discord alien
Of either land or shore;
Each note sublime, Australian—
Australian evermore!
So from mine eyes of fancy
The scales of doubting fell:
I saw again like Clancy
The vision that befell.
Fierce suns like hawks may hover
O’er plains unwept by dew
That coming rains will cover
Again with herbage new.
Their fatklts or failures human
Can all amended be,
If freeborn men and women
Keep faith in destiny.
No land is ours unkindly;
Her stars will rise again;
And we who love her blindly,
We do not love in vain.
E. J. BRADY.


ss
m
ill
m
jfkiw-
"-< ¥*W« '
Patrons are benefiting by our re-
duced costs. “Room Only” rates
are lower—and so is the tariff in
the Dining-room and Grill-room.
But there is no reduction in the
quality or the service—that is main-
tained and always will be maintained
at the world-famed standards of the
Hotel.
Single Room only, from 12/- per day
Double Room only, from 22/6 per day
Breakfast: 2/- and 3/6; and a la carte
The
Australia
Hotel
[Sydney
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Ask for Illustrated folder.
Reduced Tariff
POLITICAL
POINTS
Conversion to 4 p.c., with the term fixed
for many years, is going to make it easier
for Governments to be otherwise extrava-
gant. If Australia’s present needs were met
by taxation of interest, the tax could be re-
mitted as soon as conditions improve; and
conditions improve with extraordinary speed
in Australia. But with conversion, no
matter how much conditions improve the
interest will still be 4 p.c. instead of the
old 5-1 to 6; which will give Governments
the chance of a great splash—to the dis-
advantage, of course, of private enterprise,
which will have to i>ay the current rate of
interest. The Laborites —Lang their leader
—who demanded a conversion at a low rate
did the smartest thing they have been guilty
of for years. Whether it is honest is quite
another matter.
At the Melbourne conference, Lang, who
was fighting to get the tax-free stocks taxed
if their owners wouldn’t convert at a low
rate, read out a list of wealthy owners of
these securities. It shows the Robin Hood
mentality of the man. Robbery is only rob-
bery when the poor are robbed ; when the
rich are robbed, it damn well serves them
right.
The “S. M. Herald,” which can be more
foolish on its financial page than anywhere
else, has been explaining why conversion is
better than taxation. There are two rea-
sons, it seems: (1) Taxation would force
up the rate of interest on future loans, and
POLITICIAN : “Let’s drive this depression
brute off!”
ANOTHER POLITICIAN: “No, that’s too risky.
Let’s feed him on a few fat men, and
then he might let Australia go."
(2) Parliament might increase the tax, and
this knowledge would make future flotations
difficult. But the remembrance of the com-
pulsory conversion will also force up the
rate on’ future loans; and when some future
Government finds that it is possible to reduce
the tax, the reduction can be made, whereas
there is no hope in the wide world of the
4 p.c. conversion ever being re-converted to
5J p.c. Even if it could be, the right people
wouldn’t benefit.
There is a £2OOO-p.a. job to be filled in
Queensland. The Government, which bought
the Swift meatworks on the Brisbane River
for public abattoirs, wants someone to boss
the show aud act as chairman of the
Metropolitan Meat Board. Nine applications
are in, and if the Government wants to do
Premier Slang a favor it will appoint A. D.
Kay, of the Sydney Domain. Consumers
and producers will each have one represen-
tative, to be paid at so much per sitting.
Australia’s super-Parliament, comprising
seven Premiers, the Federal Treasurer and
three State Ministers, with a retinue of
economists and officers, again put \ ic.
State Assembly in the shade last week.
Publication of officially sub-edited extracts
from the speeches, taken by Vic. “Hansard”
men, helped to rivet attention on the con-
ference. It was not surprising, therefore,
that the defeat of the Hogan Ministry by'
two votes on a vital clause of the Mora-
torium Bill should have aroused only lan-
guid notice. While the super-Parliament
was engaged on issues involving the finan-
cial salvation of Australia it was some-
what incongruous for the State Parliament
to be discussing minor matters in the same
building.
Hogan’s Profiteering Prevention Bill is
modelled on the Queensland Act. Appoint-
ment of a commissioner with power to in-
vestigate cases, publish the facts and fix
prices is contemplated. Uppish House mem-
bers don’t greatly object to the investigatory
and publicity powers, but they baulk at
price-fixing, which, as they declare, proved a
ghastly failure when applied in Victoria for
two years after the war. They sug-
gest that the public could do its own penal-
ising if the commissioner indicted the
profiteer.
Leg. Council voting suggests that Labor
stocks in Victoria have fallen very low. In
Melbourne North, hither-
to a party stronghold,
Beckett, the Minister of
Health, was ousted by
H. H. Olney, whose
majority was just on
4000 ; in Melbourne West,
where Disneiy was thought
to be unassailable, H.
E. Hall reduced his
majority to 824. Neither
Beckett nor Disney was
opposed last time. And
Frank Clarke, president
of the Chamber, scored
7416 to the Labor man’s
2338 in Melbourne South.
Olney and H'all were the
first candidates in the
field for the U.A.P., the
Victorian section of which
is naturally elated.
The Commonwealth
Statistician, whose trans-
port statistics for 1929-
30 are just out, reckons
the losses on Government
railways at £8,216,400 —
£3,669,000 more than the
interest on the war debt
to the British Govern-
ment, which has been
alleged to be the whole
cause of our troubles.
Cost of construction and
equipment is set down at
£329.500,000, so even if
p.c. had been allowed
for depreciation instead
of nothing at all the
losses would have been doubled. In the
case of company railways the Commonwealth
Income-tax Commissioner fixes depreciation
at 5 p.c. on locomotives and 10 p.c. on
trucks, the permanent-way deduction being
settled after discussion. In one way and
another Government ownership, as con-
trolled by politicians, has been a greater
financial burden to Australia than the war.
When Communists stir up trouble for a
ruling Labor party, it is generally suggested
that such demonstrations have been engin-
eered by Nationalists. For once no hint of
this was heard when a basher gang took
possession of a Sydney Trades and Labor
Council meeting, “fell on unarmed and un-
suspecting fellow-members of the working
class” (as the “Labor Daily” puts it), broke
some heads and many chairs, forced Garden
and other notables to bolt, and generally put
up a fair-sized riot, which only ceased when
the police arrived. “The worst elements
of Gangland, organised by thugs,” the suffer-
ing Garden pronounced next day—there
were said to be 300 of them —while the
Labor organ attributed the shindy to the
“The disgraceful scenes of organised violence and
thuggery enacted at the Labor Council have again
shown to the trade-union movement the danger of
the thug element.” —Jock Garden, once the idol of
the mob .
FRANKENSTEIN : “Murder! Police! Ma pet
has escaped!”
“Labor Defence Corps” and spoke in pained
tones of “a gang of larrikins, having its head-
quarters at Glebe, which has systematically
been drilling in methods of attack for weeks
past.” The basher gang of timber-strike
days also had its headquarters at Glebe, and
Garden —but why revive bitter memories?
Since June, 1929, the Victorian railway
staff has been reduced by 5200, 2300 in the
last twelvemonth. But the tally is still
22 400, and the deficit keeps on growing;
according to Gain, the Minister, it will be
a million and three-quarters at the end of
this month.
During 1930 the Commonwealth lost
11,408 of population by excess of departures
over arrivals. Of this 7992 was the loss of
N. S. Wales. In the 12 months to the end of
September the wages lost by industrial dis-
putes in the Commonwealth amounted to
“After attending one ‘unity’ conference with the Nationalists and
the Country party, the All for Australia League (N.S.W. section)
refused to be represented at another. ‘The State council of the league is
convinced,’ its leader, Mr. Gibson, said, ‘that the other organisations
are not sincere in their desire for unity in which sectional interests may
be forced to give way to common interest. '"
G IBBY : “I don’t want to play in your yard. I don’t love
you any more.”
ONLOOKER: “If they don’t agree, what’ll happen to me?”
£2,303,706. Of this a little over £2,000,000
was lost in Lang’s State, where the desire
to strike a blow for freedom and to biff
the head off the bloated capitalist has become
an obsession.
A special class of creditor has arisen of
late. Absentees who had made money in
Australia wanted to send it to London or
New York, but decided to invest it here in
Government securities for a short time in
hopes that the cost of exporting money
might diminish. Prime Minister Seullin
has an advertisement in the papers asking
for details of these “Overseas Trade Moneys,”
as he calls them. Apparently it is intended
to do something extra for the owners. In
the case of mere Australians who have in-
vested in Government securities it is pro-
posed to tax interest 25 per cent., even if
their bonds are nominally free of income tax,
though Australians may be allowed to choose
a certain amount of repudiation instead, if
they prefer it, one drink being much the
same as the other.
Ex-Governor O’Grady is credited (by
cable) with the statement that “if he had
a hundred millions he would invest half of
it in Tasmania.” Such confidence is grati-
fying, but the acquisition of a hundred
millions by an elderly gentleman who is just
off to a poorly-paid billet in the Falkland
Islands, which offer scant opportunity for
mammoth speculations, seems a somewhat
remote contingency.
The Hogans (Vic.) propose to raise an
additional £150,000 for unemployment relief
this year. Portion of the extra amount
(perhaps nearly all of it) will be required
for rebates to taxpayers, as assessments were
made for 1930-31 on 1929-30 returns of in-
come, and there were few cases in which
income did not fall in 1930-31. Out or
£603,000 authorised to be raised by super-
income tax and wages stamp duty, £530,000
was allotted for sustenance, which includes
weekly doles to families of married unem-
ployed, upkeep of the Broadmeadows camp
and of country camps where clearing is done,
and grants to municipalities which find work
in lieu of the dole. Apparently the Hogans
regard sustenance as having come to stay.
A new. branch with the customary depart-
mental paraphernalia has been set up; there
are six clerks and eight investigators, apart
from a bunch of officers employed by the
Treasury to examine accounts;
In its first spasm of economy the Federal
Labor Government decided that Australia
should do without the decennial census in
1931, the same, as Abyssinia and Tibet. Then,
its pick-and-shovel complex asserting itself,
it gave the States an extra million for unem-
ployed-relief work on their roads, being
already, obliged to find two millions under
the crazy Bruce-Page roads agreement; the
State Works Ministers, having been sum-
moned to Canberra, assured the Prime
Minister that “they could expend the money
efficiently, economically and expeditiously.
One of them was a Labor gentleman
from Westralia, whose party was to go to
the country in four months. He got
£192,000; and Lindsay, his Country-party
successor, has been revealing how portion ot
it was spent:—
The Labor Government set out to find new roads
to construct. Surveyors were kept on during the
Christmas holidays preparing work for certain elec-
torates. During December there were 1880 men
employed on main-road jobs; at the end of January
the number was 3000 ; by the end of April it had
fallen to 2100. The elections were over then.
Taking the narrowest view of it, the census
would have given work to droves of unem-
ployed professional men and clerks.
Slang evidently regards thrift as a vice.
Explaining his latest crazy notion, is
to cut all Government salaries above £5OO
down to that level, he is reported to have said
that “further reductions should not be made
at the expense of the lower-paid people, who
spend the whole of their income the moment
they receive it, but should come from those
who, having a large surplus above their
immediate wants, withhold that surplus from
circulation either by banking or some other
form of saving.” Apart from the fact that
banking money or investing it puts it into
circulation just as much as if it were paid
to the grocer or the landlord, how is indus-
try going to find room for young people
if Slang has his silly way? New avenues
of employment are created only out of sav-
ings ; if the rising generation has to depend
for opportunities on those who “spend the
whole of their income the moment they
receive it,” the bulk of it will have to
resign itself to joining thousands of such
people on the dole. Slang’s small suburban
mind can’t rise above the consideration of
votes and shops and the vacant corner block
on which gin-case orators spout.
One of Lang’s 90 dole inspectors, who get
£5 a week and expenses—some of them
have been the subject of hair-raising remarks
by Dunningham, M.L.A. —was knocked out
in the Trades and Labor Council hullabaloo.
The gentleman is a doorkeeper. H'e has
since challenged “Mick Ryan, the Commu-
nist leader,” to a fight, “any time or place
and any style—Rafferty rules, bare knuckles
or whatever he prefers—for £5 to £50.”
Perhaps the Government will put up a side
wager, and make it a free show on the
Domain or the Cricket Ground, the 89 other
inspectors to be on hand with suitable
weapons to see fair play. People ought to be
given some return for the shilling-in-the-
pound tax extorted from them.
There was a lot of talk from righteously
indignant Labor members not long back
about illegal drilling by youthful members
of some of the new organisations which the
ineptitude of politicians has brought into
being. Such activities are expressly penal-
"The Judges of the Supreme Court state that in
their unanimous opinion the Lysaght Administration
of Justice Bill would prove unworkable in practice
and aggravate immeasurably the evils that it was
designed to cure."
“I sentence the lot of you to 25 years’ hard
labor for writing a report calculated to
excite disaffection against his Majesty’s
Attorney-General.”
, t. t-
ised in Lysaght s law-reform bill. P ur
apparently, if restraint is required in such
directions, the Left Wing. or the Daboi
party will be the first to invite attention,
If the Communists and the Labor Defence
Corps aren’t that, what are they i
j n 1928-29 N. S. Wales paid (on paper,
anyhow) the highest factm-y wages in the
Commonwealth and the highest in its liis-
tory. Ihe number of persons employe
the State m 19-9-30 declined by l<,lo .
Four other States (Queensland figures a .
ready yet) showed an aggregate decline o
11,138; Tasmania, where wages are o >
reported a slight increase in the number
hands employed in secondary in dust 1 .
is easy for cranks like Good Hid Fid
to put up wages on paper; the dim ?
to make employers pay them whe y
say they can t.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Oxmead”: When Walter Kingsmill, the
amiable and debonair President of the Senate,
travelled out to the Governor-General’s resi-
dence the other day to present a petition
from the Chamber over which he presides,
he was arrayed, one learns, in the full-
bottomed wig of his office and the knee-
breeches that high occasions of State demand.
It seems a waste of the picturesque material
that evokes admiring “Ahs” and “Ohs” at
levees and such-like functions, for the road
is a lonely one and Kingsmill probably
covered the distance in a taxi—it is hardly
likely that he would be supplied with a Gov-
ernment motor-car to present a protest against
THE DIGGER SPIRIT.
“Working, Jim?"
“No, Bill. Are you?”
“No—but I know a bloke that is!”
the Government’s methods. One can’t help
feeling that to live up to those sartorial trap-
pings he might more fittingly have gone in a
coach with postilions—or even ridden a
white horse, “an ambling pad” like the Abbot
bestrode in the “Lady of Shalott.” It would
at least have given the roadmenders and the
fortuitous drover something to brighten /.up
the day. If Makin had to make/the same
trip on official business one wonders what
he would wear.
“Flapjack”: Writing on the ever-fresh sub-
ject of flappers, a Sydney scribe assures
her readers that “both the name and the
species had their origin during the war.”
Which is, of course, nonsense. The
species probably originated with Eve; the
word that apparently came to fill a long-
felt want is certainly ten years
older than the war, if not more.
I can remember hearing it in
1905. It has long been in the
dictionaries; Funk and Wagnall
schedule it as an English usage,
not an American one. Of course
it isn’t in Webster, but a pre-
monition of it is. Webster’s flap-
per is “a young game bird, especi-
ally a duck, not yet able to fly
well.” That settles the origin,
whoever it was that adapted it
to its secondary use.
* * *
“Murchadha”: Some Irish eth-
nologist has made the discovery
—and boldly announced it in the,
Dail Eireann, of all places!—
that Erse is not the original
language of his country at all,
and not even of the oldest of
which traces remain. The first
Celts, he points out, landed in
Ireland between 600 and 500 B.c.
and spoke a language akin to
Latin; Erse came later, along
with undesirable invaders from
the Baltic—“a Teutonic rabble,”
the ethnologist unkindly terms
them. If such a statement had
been made in the House of Com-
mons in the pre-Home Rule days
by anyone named Brown or
Smith, it would have been stamp-
ed as a malignant Sassenach
calumny. But the maker’s name
is Hennessy, and it isn’t sug-
gested he is likely to lose his
seat for suggesting that something very
like what patriots used to call “the
language of the garrison” was spoken in
Ireland centuries before there was any/
garrison to speak it.
* * * *
“Shep.”: The hard times which have
dragged Canberra florins back into circula-
tion from brooches, etc., are possibly also
responsible for the “brums.” Some of these
are excellent counterfeits, similar in weight
and design to the real thing; the safest test
is to rub the milling of the suspected coin
with that of a well-used florin. If it is a
wrong ’un the serrations will rub clean off.
Where I dine, tied to the cash-register is a
pair of scissors, and the damsel in charge
dives on to all new-looking florins to give
their edges the scraping test. The girl in a
tobacco kiosk outside had four bad florins
pushed back to her by the bank the other
morning. Offer her a new two-bob now, and
she’ll scratch dents in her cash-register test-
ing it.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: “Centurion” (B. 27/5/’3l) falls
into a common error when he says of the
press gang that “it was the senior service
which made the Nile and Trafalgar possible
by clubbing citizens on the head and drag-
ging them off to serve King George afloat.”
Practically complete records exist of the
method of enlistment of the seamen of the
time, there being only a few hundred records
missing out of tens of thousands. These
show that less than 2 per cent, of the
lower-deck personnel of the Navy of 1803
were obtained by impressment. The myths
about, the press gang arise largely because
the subject lent itself to picturesque treat-
ment and partly through, misinterpretation
of prestman,” actually one who had received
the “prest-money” of twelve pence on enlist-
ing. “Prest” was the French for “ready,”
and prest-money bound those receiving it to
hold themselves in readiness. The confusion
between the words has led to many inaccu-
rate impressions. “Shanghai-ing” was a dis-
reputable imitation.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE
MRS. JINKS (being shown round by the house-letting agent): “Henry, the wonderful
view from this window leaves me without another word to say.”
JINKS (bored stiff): “Gawd, if I could only believe it I’d take the blinkin’ place for
21 years.”
“Whitehall”: “There, but for the grace
of luck, went ‘Whitehall’!” I often think
that when Black Maria passes. I had been
dining in a London grill-room—the Troca-
dero, to be explicit. You get a ticket there,
and pay at a desk on the way out. As I
stood waiting for a ’bus. in Shaftesbury-
avenue after dinner I noticed something in
the cuff of my overcoat. The ticket. I
had wandered out in the crowd without pay-
ing, an absent-minded bilker. My explana-
tions and money were received with coldness,
and the manager made it clear that he sus-
pected there was some catch in it.. I would
certainly have been in for it if, instead of
being intercepted by myself, so to speak, the
job had been done by one of the restaurant
detectives. There must be quite a few people
in gaol who are as innocent a® I was yet
will never in this world be able to get anyone
to believe it.
“Centurion”: I went recently to
see a talkie, having first ascer-
tained that it had been passed by
Mr. O’Reilly. It was a Holly-
wood production treating of the
joys and sorrows of a Royal Air
Force subaltern. The thrilling
moment came when the hero was
wheeled up for orderly-room.
Charged by his C.O. with supply-
ing information to the enemy, the
wronged one replied “Listen here!
Either you’ve got your dope all
wrong, or I’m cuckoo.” As an
example of the manly candor of
the cultured officers of the R.A.F.
—-to say nothing of their confreres
of the horse, foot and guns—l re-
call nothing in a fairly wide ex-
perience to match that. All the
same, I remember a lot of C.O.’s
who, unlike the old bird in the
film, would have taken the remark in the
worst possible spirit.
* $ * $
“Miro”: Recently I met a woman who
was trying to sell white aigrettes, all of
which had come from India secreted in a
newspaper. Yet when a Maoriland friend
wrote an innocent inquiry about my health
on the margin of a weekly she had posted our
local postmaster requested me to pay 3s. 6d.
for breach of regulations. Il'e also told
me that they had at headquarters a “big and
highly-paid staff” whose sole duty it was
to open and examine overseas papers and
assess fines where necessary. Aigrettes and
such trifles seem to be invisible to that staff.
* * * *
“Kerys”: If “Clifford Snook” thinks all
Nevada is bare and bleak (B. 3/6/T3) he
is tremendously mistaken. Reno is as
famous for its scenery as for its solid
comfort. The affluent divorce-seekers usually
put in their time in fine homes along its
river, frequently arriving with squads of
servants and fleets of motor-cars. Reno,
being a mountain city, has a long and cold
winter, relieved by alpine sports, and' it also
has a large and entirely respectable popula-
tion apart from the floating one. When I
was there the star attraction in divorce
circles was Maxine Elliott, sister of Ger-
trude, who had paused at Reno to dissociate
herself from the much-married Nat Goodwin.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: The asininity of most of the
publicity stuff paid for by America’s talkie
barons is a perpetual source of wonder to
me. In the first place it is aimed at the
wrong people. The films hold our modern
morons in as firm a. grip as melodrama held
the morons of 20 years ago. They would
go to the talkies with very much less induce-
ment than they are getting in the way of press
blither. The vital section comprises people
of education and taiste, and their imitators,
Many of the former, and practically all the
latter, are still holding aloof from the
talkies; and till the talkies cease making in-
decent exposures of the vulgar minds behind
them, in the press and elsewhere, the posi-
tion isn’t likely to alter. It is the right
thing in suburban society to adopt the same
attitude towards the best of the talkies--
J^Vumm^fer^as 6 4/rtaJ folk”
ad opted towards motor-cars 30 years ago; to
speak of them as deplorable innovations, and
prophesy their speedy end and a return of
the good old stage regime. The only cure is
to raise the publicity stuff to the level of
the best of the films. At present much of
it is not only idiotic but almost unintel-
ligible to people outside the U.S.A.’s “flan-
nel nightgown belt.” A First National
masterpiece was advertised in Sydney the
other day as “A Nifty that will Notre Dame
your Blues!”
* * * *
«d» • “v - tvt ri ” tackles me CB 3/6/’3l)
wriUn^Wenice wasat The height 6t her
p ower XOOO years ago”; but I never said it.
j sai{l s j ie wag mos t important port”
then; and so, as the entrepQt of Europe’s
Eastern trade, she was. She had reached
“the meridian of her fame when, as I re-
marked, the Venetian Ambassador wrote >
Ms masters that Vasco da Gama had rounded
the Cape, and, to quote Keade, the Ven-
etians saw that they were ruined. As to
the port of London, . XJVO. evidently
doesn’t know .where it is. The London that
Alfred re-fortified. Mter the Peace of Wed-
more was a little inland place that stretched
no further east than Aldgate. Its port
extends as far into the marsh country as
Havengore Creek m Essex and Warden
Point m Kent. Not only did marshmen hold
these parts after Wedmore, when Alfred
didn’t even have a fleet, but they were in
effective possession m Shakspeare s day.
Marshes, by the way, still form a sort of
limitaneus in the minds of London s East
Enders. Vide the refrain of Gus Elen’s
famous song, “The ’Ouses in Between
Wiv a ladder and some glarses
Yer could see to ’Ackney Marshes—
If Jt wasnt for the ’ouses m between,
“Blanc”: The fiery and eloquent Welsh
p adl . e had hundreds of soldiers listening
f 0 him in Picquigny-square. “God has the
Devil on a chain, but the Devil is still ter-
ribly powerful!” he shouted. “He can get
any one 0 f you .» Then his eyes fell on a
SO zzled trio wobbling towards him, and his
warnings became distinctly personal. “You
f rom Manchester” —he pointed towards the
Tommy; “the Devil has you now!” The
Tommy saluted as respectfully as he could,
« And you from Scotland! The Devil has
you> too.” j oc k ma d e an effort to stand to
attention. “And he has you as well, you
from Australia!” went on the preacher indi-
eating the third member of the party. , “He
can g C t y ou here just as well as in your
own country.” The Digger appeared to be
thinking deeply, as the thunderous denuncia-
tion turned all eyes on him. “Seems as if the
cow might as well be loose,” he grumbled
au( jibl y
’
“Barangkali”: This year the cable scored
over the Beam wireless in respect of the
Epsom Derby. The result was telephoned
to all the principal dailies from the Eastern
Extension office just 19 seconds after the
first horse had passed the winning post;
the ’phone message from the Beam arrived
1 minute 30 seconds later. Confirmatory
copies from the cables were delivered
by messenger to the “S. M. Herald” and
“Telegraph” offices within two and three
minutes respectively after the race had. been
won. As the 19 seconds includes time
taken in verifying the placed horses, trans-
cribing the names into punched creed tape
and telephoning,. the actual time of transit
between London and Sydney would be in
the region of two seconds.
THE DINKUM OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. W. Gt. Woolnoug-h predicts that the search
for oil in commercial quantities will soon be success-
ful if it is conducted on sound lines, and that such
success will mean wealth to those who achieve it
and relief to the nation.”
Now corn and wine and wool are not enough
To lift us out of this accursed slough,
Send us the oil, O Lord! But not the stuff
Pressed from the fruitage on the olive
- bough—-
A boon to any country, we’ll allow,
Since first it flourished upon Canaan’s soil,
Yet not the article that’s wanted now.
Give us, O Lord, the oil —the dinkum oil!
A land of milk and honey, ours. No rough
Words for the tireless bee or homely cow;
But grim depression has us by the scruff,
As seen in many a corrugated brow.
How can we stage a quick recov’ry V How
Best shuffle off this devastating coil?
Come, brother mine, together let us bow
Our heads and pray for gushing wells of oil.
This ledger-squaring task looks parlous tough,
While factious politicians scheme and row,
Wrangle and whine, procrastinate and bluff.
With grace and wisdom, Lord, these birds
endow!
And let our flocks increase and speed the
plough,
Give ev’ry man remunerative toil.
Nathless of all Thy blessings we avow
A most decided preference for oil.
How Capital its ears would prick, and snuff
The air, and join the scramble for the
spoil!
All our embarrassments away to puff,
Give us, O Lord, the oil—the dinkum oil!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sol Malaprop”: Cranks of one sort and
another have long been on the hunt for many
Biblical things, including the site of the
Garden of Eden, the True Cross, the dish
used at the Last Supper, and (what affords
the widest scope of all) the present location
of the Missing Tribes. Those tribes may
be anywhere on earth, while the Garden of
Eden is fixed. More likely they are nowhere
at all, having been swallowed up long ago
by marriage with other races. One theory
of the cranks is that the kidnapped wrecks
of Israel changed their names to Scythians
(no one saw them making the change) and
proceeded to make big history. Later they
are said to have moved westward (no one
saw them moving) and called themselves
Saxons. (The similarity of the initials
suggests that Scythians, Saxons' and sea-ser-
pents are closely related.) The Lost Tribes
can’t be identified by their language, their
clothes, their noses, their traditions, or
their Lost and Tribal expression, for no one
knows how they ought to look after about
2600 years. They are to correspond in some
way with some indefinite prophecies, and,
following this clue to the bitter end, they
have been located in Afghanistan, in Lapland,
among the red men of North America, and in
England. (There is an Anglo-Israelitc
Theory, and there is, or was, a British
Israel Identification Association, but I don’t
know if it still lives.) Among earnest
searchers after the Lost Tribes are, I believe,
the Christian Israelites, the Catholic Apos-
tolios, the Seventh Day Adventists, the
Mormons and sundries. The principal finger-
post to guide the searchers is probably a
statement in the second Book of Kings that
the Lost Ten were taken into Assyria and
are there “unto this day.” In the absence
of a date it is impossible to say what day
“this day” may be; still it is something to
go on with.
:j: * *
“Uramao”: Henare was undergoing a
gruelling from one of the Costs Brigade in
an assault case involving a hefty fellow--
native and his rotund wahine. “You say,
rasped counsel, “that you were present at
the beginning of the trouble between this
man and his wife. A minute ago you
admitted that when you arrived at the
house the woman’s nose was bleeding and
the husband had a lump on his forehead.
How could you he at the commencement of
the trouble when damage was already done?”
And counsel looked at his Worship with the
MEMORIES
“And is he nice?”
“Oh, shockingly!”
air of one who has put a poser. An expan-
sive smile suffused Henare’s face as he
replied: “Too rite, I was at te peginning of
te trouble. I was te pest man at te wedding.
» * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Even the most backward
nations are not above harnessing modern
science to age-old observances; the latest,
reform proposed in Turkey is the abolition of
the Muezzin, that storied figure who morning
and evening calls the faithful to prayers
from the minarets of the mosques. These
men, like the Jewish Cantors, have remark-
able voices, being specially trained for the
job, and no one who has heard them inton-
ing their chant is ever likely to forget
DAD TAKES THE COUNT.
“I’ve told you before not to hang around the verandah with that
chap of yours."
“But, dad, he was only there for a second.”
“Rubbish! I heard a fourth and a fifth."
it. Even Turkey dares not substitute the
Christian hell for the official, so the summons
will now issue from each mosque by means
of loud-speakers, the message being broadcast
from a central studio. The time may yet
be when golden-voiced Israfel, whose job it
will be to summon all to the Last Judgment,
will also have recourse to radio.
“Morita”: The belching of 18-pounders on
King’s Birthday recalled to me memories of the
day in 1918. We had just come out of Strazeele,
and back near Hazebrouk we drowsed under
apple-trees behind our billets when the after-
noon calm was suddenly shattered by an anti-
aircraft gun, hidden behind the. roadside
hedge, pelting shrapnel at a Fritz ’plane
far out of range. Obviously the shells were
only getting about three-fourths of the way
up, and an old-timer with us grunted at the
waste. He’d counted 19 shots when they eased
off. “Give ’er another two,” he roared. A ser-
geant-major yelled back that Fritz had gone.
“Course the cow’s gorn,” went back the
reply, “but what’s the good er wastin’ shots?
Sling up another coupler shells, and book the
flamin’ issue up to the King fer ’ees birth-
day.”
* * * *
“Mells”: There can’t be many cases on
record where a man has been prosecuted for
trying to blackmail
a bishop, but one
occurred at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) the
other day. The
ecclesiastic forgiv-
ingly said a word
for the man in the
dock —he was con-
vinced that the
transgressor had
repented and was
least guilty of
those concerned in
the plot. Then the
prosecuting ser-
geant came along
with his little tes-
timonial to the
effe c t that the
accused (who had
pleaded guilty) was
a decent chap who
“had been drugged
by two she-devils
with gin” before
being dispatched on
his nefarious mis-
sion. Softened by
these pleas ’Sonah,
after remarking
that blackmail was
a more despicable
crime even than
murder, contented
himself with bind-
ing over the pri-
soner to be of good
behavior for three
years. The pic-
ture of a couple of
fiendish females fill-
ing up a man of
excellent character
with squareface to
hearten him up for
the job of taxing a
blameless bishop
with immorality and demanding hushmoney
is one to linger in the memory.
m * * *
“Verneuker”: That yarn about Barney
Barnato and his Park-lane mansion re-
calls that he built on the customary
long lease, London’s wealthy ground land-
lords not being in the habit of parting with
their freeholds. The landlord in this case was
the Duke of Westminster, whose agent drew
Barnato’s attention to the provision in the
lease which required him to spend at least
£2O 000 on the new building. “Tvendy thou-
sand,” said Barney in supreme contempt,
“vy, I’m goin’ to spend more than that on
the stables!” It was characteristic of
Barney, who nevertheless in some ways was
one of the meanest of men. He took an
impish delight in inviting a friend to share
a bottle of wine or to have lunch, then mak-
ing the other pay for it, explaining that lie
never carried money with him if he could
help it.
“X.S”: The pri-
soners at Geelong
Gaol are now the
proud possessors of
a wireless listening
set, bought with
their own money.
Most of the cells
have been connected
up and a loud
speaker stands in
the exercise yard;
they did their own
wiring. The next
step will be a broad-
casting station. This
is apparently a com-
monplace in America,
judging by the num-
ber of films in which
criminals with an A 1
Jolson talent are
depicted singing to
their dear old
mothers via the. gaol
wireless.
“Chevroford”: The
grisly record of the
Wellington - parade
beacon in Melbourne
is seconded by that
of an elm-tree in St.
Kilda - road. Two
young men were
killed the oth e r
morning when their
car hit this obstruc-
tion as they were
returning from a
party. The tree is
one of a row, and
seems in no way
cast for the r6le of
murderer, but when
the press photo-
graphers came to
take a picture of the
trunk their atten-
tion was arrested by
the presence of a
deep indentation on the opposite side of it.
Inquiry elicited that the gash was a mem-
orial of knight George Steward, who was
killed here in the same way some years ago.
* * * *
“Justinian”: Syd-
ney’s longest piece
of Supreme Court
litigation on record
dragged itself to an
end last week when
the jury gave
Charles Paddison a
verdict for £4OOO
against the E., S.
and A. Bank. The
claim was for
£15,000, which, it
was alleged, the
bank had paid on
unauthorised
or forged cheques.
The hearing lasted
58 days and cost, it
is computed about
£15,000. The oner-
ousness of the jury’s
job and the tax upon
their time were so
fully recognised by
both sides that, dur-
ing the last month,
the four good men
and true were draw-
ing pay at the rate
of £4 ss. 6d. a day
—probably another
record. Their con-
scientiousness wa s
maintained to the
bitter end. when
they took 12 hours
to consider their
verdict. In these
tedious and compli-
cated cases counsel
on one side or the
other are generally
charged at some
stage with wasting
time. But it doesn’t
seem to have hap-
pened in this case;
when hundreds of
documents have to
be examined through
magnifying - glasses
by dozens of eyes, the most exacting Judge
finds it hard to speed up things.
* * * . *
“Exon”: If there is “a high level of in-
toxication at Oxford nowadays” I question
if the wine clubs are to blame (B. 3/6/’3l).
Many of these were pushed out of existence
by authority years ago. In my own college the
dons suddenly decided that one of these
hilarious institutions was as much as dis-
cipline could stand, and peremptorily ordered
the more uproarious of the two existing ones
to disband. It had to, of course; the only
trouble was how to dispose of the banquet-
ing plate, the miniature silver railway that
carried the bottles round the festive board,
the huge silver snuff-box and all the rest of
the bric-h-brac, of which it had accumu-
lated in half a century or more nearly as
much as a regiment might have. I never
heard how that was settled. I fancy the
wine clubs that are left are but pale shadows
of the old, bad, glad, mad ones. I was
never more surprised in my life than when
an ex-Rhodes Scholar, a noted philanthro-
pist, told me with modest pride that he had
been a member of what had been in my time
merely a costly and Bacchanalian institu-
tion. He went on to explain that things
had altered so much that even a teetotaller
like himself might belong to a wine club
nowadays and get nothing but good out of
it Which, of course, is a state of things
that should be gratifying to everyone, except
the Oxford wine merchants.
* * * *
“Hominy”: When Westralia was nego-
tiating with the Imperial Government to
send it convicts in the ’forties, after the
other colonies had decided they didn t want
any more of them, two curious suggestions
were made to disarm objectors. One was that
the convicts should be confined in hulks ana
returned to England when they had worked
out their sentences at road-making or simi-
lar jobs. (Sixty years later the goldmining
companies of the Transvaal were allowed
to import Chinese labor, although not from
the gaols, on somewhat similar condi-
tions.) The second was that PentonviUe
—a prison for persons convicted of trivial
offences —should supply the wants of the
labor market in the struggling colony the
compulsory emigrants to be pardoned betor.
disembarking so that they could land at n re-
mantle as free men. This project, at
least, seems to have had something to
recommend it, but the Colonial Office
intimated that if Westralia wanted con-
victs it would have to take them on the old
terms, and there must be no bargaining
about the quality. And, the need being
pressing, that settled it.
“Morimoto”: Says the “Argus” touching
the Melbourne revival of “The Mikado :
The fact that this opera, in which sarcasm is
poured so vehemently on English institutions, was
banned in London for fear of offending Japanese
susceptibilities must have appealed to Gilbert s
ironic sense of humor.
But did not the people who banned the play
show a finer feeling than the author who
w T rote it? If the critic who finds Gilberts
irony so exquisite lived in Nippon and saw
a similar travesty of English institutions
written by a Japanese he would probably
not be so beautifully tolerant. _ In fact,
whenever Japanese playwrights, in all seri-
ousness, try to depict aspects of European
life which Westerners hold sacred, such as
the Christian story, there is inevitably a
protest from resident foreigners. One even
objected to a performance of “King Lear
because the diminutive stature of the Nip-
ponese actors outraged his aesthetic feelings.
“The Mikado” is particularly shocking to
Japanese susceptibilities because it presents
their ruler —not only a monarch but' a
god—as a comic character subject to
the slapstick attentions of the low comedian.
❖ *
“L. 1.8.” : “Shep.’s” stinging reproof to the
contributor who stigmatised as “shoddy sen-
timent” the proposal to include some tribute
to the horses of the Great War in the Mel-
bourne Shrine of Remembrance is a well-
deserved one (B. 8/6/’3l). There _is no
doubt whatever of the deep affection in
which the soldier associated with horses held
NOT IN THE BOND.
“Oh, it’s a lovely ring, Billy. If I ever break off the engage-
ment, can I keep it?”
“Ur-r, I dunno. You’ll have to see the cash-order people about
that."
his four-footed mates. I still remember the
consternation of the Light Horse units in
Sinai and Palestine when they found that
their mounts were to be left behind and sold
to the natives as beasts of burden. The
prospect of their cherished friends being
given over to the tender mercies of the Arab
and the Gyppo, two of the most fiendishly
cruel races on earth where animals are con-
cerned, drove many a trooper to shoot his
brother-in-arms rather than leave him to
such a fate.
* * * *
“Tadeaster”: The American millionaire
has broken out in a new place. Not content
with the ownership of so many of the stately
Domes of England, he is buying up a
string of the famous old public-houses. The
move has been started by a syndicate called
the New York Trust Incorporated. It is
their intention to transform these historic
hostelries into modern American road houses,
the latter being caravanserais whereto the
gilded youth of America’s great cities resort
to poison themselves and their partners with
“hootch” while capering to the discords of a
jazz band. It is enough to make the long
line of folk who have written so lovingly
of these ancient places of refreshment, from
Chancer and Shakspeare to Dickens, rise
from the tomb in protest.
THE LADIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whether our songs be of walnuts or whales,
Or gold or goloshes or guinea-pigs’ tails,
Ko sooner we settle to scribble them out
Than—enter Miladi!
The bard-beloved lady,
The lyrical lady
We can’t do without.
You may rhyme of mollusca, behind a locked
door,
Yet on the third stanza, or haply before,
It’s a pound to a penny there’ll smile through
a hole
In the meter Miladi!
The sex-appeal lady,
The serpentine lady,
All stockings and soul.
I weary of women, of wine and of song
At times (though I own that it’s seldom
for long).
Yet I can but cry “Kismet!” as into my lay
Trips modish Miladi,
The hip-swaying lady,
The creme-de-menthe lady,
A trifle risque.
Ah! powder-princesses that reign in our
dreams,
And rose-petal rulers of thinkers and themes,
Perversely you mock our poor music—and yet
Here’s luck to Miladi!
One far-away lady,
The other chap’s lady—
I’d like to forget!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


è
Leipzig'
Trade Fair
(Twice Yearly).
A
Visitors will not ex-
perience the slightest
difficulty with the
Language, Matters of
Freight, Duties or Bank-
ing. The Organisers of
the Leipzig Trade Fair
are always on hand to
help, courteously and
efficiently, on all ques-
tions pertaining to pur-
chasing and business
negotiation.
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of
all Trade Fairs.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING
AND BUILDING FAIRS
COMMENCE AUGUST 30.
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with names,
addresses and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Post Office Place
Melbourne, Victoria.
“Summer in
Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.”
%
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED .... £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital. Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private Hospitals,
varying m amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
11. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dick Teece was general manager and
actuary of the A.M.P. long enough' to take
root in the chair; but these days a man is
scarcely settled in it before the axe of the
age-limit falls. F. T. Bridges, who suc-
ceeded Apperly only a couple of years back,
made place last week for A. O. Holling-
worth; and the new man is no apprentice
—he has had 48 years’ service. Holling-
worth is Sydney-born, like his predecessors;
Bridges' was the son of the first pupil
teacher in the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment. Vincent Wheatley, who follows llol-
lingworth as secretary, is a Shoalhaven
(N.S.W.) product. He is almost a new
hand in the office —he first looked in only
43 years ago. Present chairman Alfred
Meeks, by the way, became a director the
year after that (1889), and has been
chairman 25 years. He is 82 (there is no
retiring age for directors), but still attends
the office four or five days a week.
The late Bill Massey’s eldest son, William,
has turned into his father’s footsteps, win-
ning the Hauraki seat at a recent by-election.
His brother John holds the old man’s seat,
Franklin. The newcomer to M.L. Parlia-
ment has a bald head exactly the same shape
as his parent’s, and cherishes as a mascot
the old black leather bag in which William
senior carted round his papers. The oiily
other ex-Premier’s son in the House is Vin-
cent Ward, who inherited Invercargill from
the baronet. Tom Seddon represented West-
land for 16 years after the death of his dad,
King Dick; and blind Clutha Mackenzie,
whoso papa, the late Tammas, ran a Ministry
for six weeks in 1912, held the East Auck-
land seat for a couple of years. In the Leg.
Council are two short-distance ex-Premiers —
Dillon Bell, 16 days in 1925, and Bill Hall-
Jones, 15 days in 1906. The only other ex-
Premier in Parliament is Gordon Coates, who
leads the Opposition in the House.
J. C. Eldridge, Labor M.H.R. for Martin
(N.S.W.), who earned notoriety in the
House of Reps, the other day by an out-
burst against the clergy belongs to the Lang
faction —his idol in other days was Greg
McGirr. Eldridge, who is nearing the three-
score mark, was born overseas, his
parents, Australians, and educated in
the Ma State, finishing up at Sydney
and London Universities, where he studied
economics. For many years he was
a civil servant in Sydney—for one brief
ELDRIDGE, M.H.R.
period he was Director of Labor and
for another, secretary of the commission
which attended to N.S.W. interests at the
Wembley Exhibition. He won his Federal
seat by defeating the youthful Graham Prat-
ten for Martin in the swing-over to Labor
in 1929. The redistribution will make Mar-
tin a Nationalist stronghold, and Eldridge
has an eye on Dailey, held at present by
Theodore. He is a returned soldier.
Jake Garrard, the only survivor of the
Labor men who sat in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment before there was a Labor party, was
85 years old last week. In 1880 he was
elected for Balmain through the efforts of
the employees of Mort’s Dock, where lie
worked ; whilst the gold-diggers _of Young
and the miners of Maitland subscribed money
to pay their spokesmen in Parliament, Gar-
rard, being a city-dweller, was regarded as
able to do without such help. As a direct
representative of the workers he was given
quick recognition, and was Secretary for
Works in 1885 and Minister for Public
Instruction from 1894 to 1898. The arrival
of the pledged Labor party, which he
viewed with suspicion, finished him at Bah
main, but he got a safe seat at Central Cum-
berland and afterwards Sherbrooke, and in
1894 became president of the Water and
Sewerage Board. A pioneer of the “vigorous
public works policy” slogan, his name stands
on more public buildings in N.S.W. than
that of any other individual.
Professor D. B. Copland, head of the com-
mittee of experts who acted in an
advisory capacity
at the Premiers’
conference, is Pro-
fessor of Com-
merce at Mel-
bourne Uni. He
was born at
Timaru (M.L.)
37 years ago, and
was a fully-fledged
M.A. with first-
class honors in
economics at 21.
He became Pro-
fessor of Econo-
mics at the Uni-
versify of Tas-
mania, crossing
Bass Strait in
1924 to take up
liis present posi-
tion. He has
turned out quite a
bookshelf of works
on currency, prices
and finance. The
last few weeks be-
fore the confer-
ence, Copland ana
h i s professorial
friend Shann were
busy preparing
“T h e Crisis i n
A u s t r alian
Finance,” and see-
ing the book
through the press.
(Angus and
Robertson p u fl-
ushed it.) It is a
most useful collec-
tion of official
documents, e t c.,
showing the vari-
Professor DOUGLAS
B. COPLAND.
ous stages of the crisis—reports of the con-
ferences and all the rest of it; with a fine
summary of the whole sad business by way
of introduction.
Australians have a way of bobbing up in
various parts of the world, Charles Belcher,
Chief Justice of Trinidad, one of the reci-
pients of a Birthday knighthood, was born
ac Geelong 54 years ago; his dad was a one-
time Vic. M.L.C. The future C.J. practised
in Melbourne in the early years of this cen-
tury, but went to London and was
admitted to the English Bar in 1909. Since
then he has filled magisterial or judicial
posts in Uganda, Zanzibar, Nyasaland and
the West Indies. He has a book to his
credit; no law treatise, but “Birds of the
District of Geelong, Australia.”
Teddy Kavanagh, relieved of his office of
Industrial Commissioner, was one of the
best of the light brigade of boxers in N.S.W.
30 years ago. McKell, Minister for Justice,
still carries a good pair of hands, of which
he makes no use except when punching the
heavy bag. Probably the daddy of them all
was Jimmy Garvan, Treasurer in the first
John See Government, who once thrashed a
brutal horse-beater in Elizabeth-street, Syd-
ney, to the satisfaction of a ring of spec-
tators. John Verran, formerly Premier of
South Australia, was another man whose
fists were useful in emergency.
Judge Backhouse, the oldest member of
the Sydney ’Varsity Senate, who has just
had his 80th birthday, was the handy man
of the N.S.W. bench 35 to 40 years ago.
Two big jobs he still remembers, though
he would much rather talk about past
Sydney regattas; he was appointed an
acting Supreme Court Judge specially to
try Sleath, Ferguson and the other Broken
Hill Labor leaders charged with conspiracy
at Deniliquin in the early ’nineties; and
he was the Royal Commissioner Who in-
quired into the success or otherwise of
industrial arbitration in Maoriland in the
same period. Mainly on his report a Con-
ciliation Court was set up in N. S. Wales,
with Dr. Garran, ex-editor of the “S. M.
Herald,” as first president.
Roy Hendy, who succeeds Sydney Town
Clerk Layton, has climbed to the top of his
particular ladder in 25 years; he is but 41
now. Starting as a junior penpusher' he
rose through various grades to become Lay-
ton’s deputy seven years ago. The council’s
insurance-fund scheme was largely his work ;
as also were the reorganisation of the muni-
cipal fish markets, and an improved system
of handling records and accounts at the
George-street Guildhall. Hendy served in
the war, and when the inter-Allied Games
were held in Paris he was on the com-
mittee. He has been an alderman himself,
too —at Randwick, where the ratepayers
elected him when he was 23. Sydney Gram-
mar was his school.
J. W. Castine, of S.A., who still retains
his title of Colonel, was 85 the other day.
For i 8 years he represented Wooroora in
the Assembly. In those days he was
known as “Castiron” Castine, a tribute to
his prowess in speaking for eight hours in
the House and thereby killing a bill for the
erection of a “Trades and Conciliation Hall.”
The Colonel was one of the founders of the
rifle-club movement in the central State.
Jimmy Parr, back from London, has been
asked to contest the Auckland Suburbs seat
at the next election. Parr was an energetic
Education Minister under Massey and
Coates before he became the Dominion’s
loud-speaker at Westminster. There are
two other ex-High Commissioners in M.L.,
Hall-Jones and James Allen.
H. A. Kauper, Australian Sound Films’
new engineer in Melbourne, is an Adelaide
man who produced sound-recording machinery
in the Holy City over three years ago. He
has since been abroad inspecting, the latest
developments. Many of his own gadgets are
included in the Visatone system, Marconi’s
latest method for making the screen vocal.
The aim of Kauper’s concern is to produce
Australian news-reels with the eventual object
of having theatres exclusively . devoted to
records of daily happenings on the London
and Paris models, where the screen news-
paper dates from the pre-war era.
John Murray, the English publisher,
announces that he is shortly to issue the
story of Mary Ambree, the Englishwoman
who to get an extra thrill out of life joined
the famous French Foreign Legion in Africa:
P. C. Wren, who wrote “Beau Geste” and
the other stories of the Legion, has put it
all on paper for her. But Mary Ambree
isn’t the only woman who has served with
these adventurers. Sydney has another —
Alys Brown, well known to Bulletin
readers for her stories of Papua. Alys
Brown is a doctor, a specialist in tropical
diseases, and years ago she wanted to get
professional experience in Africa. So she
wrote to the French authorities, setting out
her qualifications; and presently along came
an acceptance of her services and an order
to report at some station in northern Africa.
When she arrived, it was to discover that
she had been sent to the Foreign Legion:
the Frenchmen who had dealt with her
application didn’t know that “Alys” was
a woman’s name. But there was no time to
make other arrangements; her section of the
Legion was leaving at once for the interior,
and Dr. Alys insisted on going too. And
she declares she never regretted it.
Keast, M.L.A. for Ashburnham (N.S.W.),
owns that he is called Theophilus,
but in no other way is he like the early
Byzantine emperor who was noted for
cruelty and deep learning. He is a rough-
and-ready outbacker. who toiled on the roads
and farmed for 40 years. He is best known
in Parkes, of which he has several times
been Mayor, and was the first secretary of
the local Labor league. He tried to wrest
KEAST of Ashburnham.
Ashburnham from E. C. Best in 1927, but
was beaten by over 2000 votes. Aided, how-
ever, by extensive campaigning and the
expressed solicitude of Labor for the small
farmer, he turned the tables last October,
but his majority was so small that the
thought of an early election sends shivers
down his back.
W. J. Young, general manager of the Aus-
tralian Pastoral Co., a concern with many
stations in Queensland and N.S.W., died last
week in Sydney at 80. Born in Belfast, he
had some South Seas experience before going
to Queensland, where he began his pastoral
experience as a jackeroo on Lansdowne
station on the Barcoo, one of the Victorian
Fairbairn properties. He worked up to an
overseer’s job and was then transferred to
Evesham as manager. He came back to take
charge of Lansdowne, and in 1890 was
appointed to the command of the A. P. Co.
on the death of the late J. C. Higginson. For
some years he had been living in Sydney.
A. E. Atherton, Bananaland’s Minister for
Mines, whose father was the fine old pioneer
after whom the Atherton Tableland was
named, was the first white child born at
E. A. ATHERTON, Queensland’s Minister
for Mines.
Mareeba, and that happened 52 years ago.
In his early days he followed farming; then
he ran stores at Cloncurry and Almaden and
butchering businesses at Mareeba and Cairns.
The eanegrowers have a firm friend in
Atherton, and the position he has filled on
boards, councils and associations are
almost beyond counting. He wrested Chil-
lagoe from Labor (it was Theodore’s old
seat), and will have to fight hard to hold
it, but he is prepared for that.
Colonel Shillington, Resident Magistrate
and Acting Judge at Rabaul, who died in
Sydney last week, was a schoolteacher in
his young days and later a Treasury clerk.
He was also an officer in the Light Horse
when the Great War came, and was one of
the first to enlist. He served on Gallipoli
and in France, where he rose to be second
in command of the 27th Infantry Battalion
before he was invalided home. In 1919 he
became Nationalist M.L.A. for Petersham,
holding the seat until 1922. Shillington was
admitted as a barrister in 1923 —long before
that he had qualified by examination for a
police magistracy—and the Rabaul appoint-
ment came to himi five years ago. 111-health
broke him down and compelled his return
to Sydney several months ago. A brother is
superintendent of tramways in Perth.
Westralian Premier James Mitchell, who
has been anything but a silent figure at the
Premiers’ conference, took to politics com-
paratively late in life —he was nearly 40
when Northam sent him to the Assembly—
but he was a Cabinet Minister within a few
months. That was in the Moore Govern-
ment of 25 years ago, and several others of
that combination besides Mitchell are still
going strong. Newton Moore, the head, is
in the House of Commons; J. D. Connolly
(who succeeded his leader as Agent-General)
has kept himself well to the fore in Eng-
land ; Harry Gregory has been nearly 18
years in the House of Reps., and Norbert
Keenan recently returned to the Assembly
after an absence of 19 years, to become
Chief Secretary under his old colleague.
Meanwhile for a quarter of a century
Northam has reaffirmed its confidence in
Mitchell at every succeeding election, though
Labor has made some desperate attempts to
capture the seat. Mitchell’s strength lies
largely in his goqd humor and easy toler-
ance ; he never said a harsh word about
anybody if he could help it.
Colonel Carroll passed over at 68 last
week at Heidelberg (Vic.). He was a con-
spicuous figure in Anzac Day marches, being
generally the tallest soldier present.
He saw the Boer War through with
the Bananaland soldiers, and was after-
wards transferred to the Defence Depart-
ment in Victoria. Although above the
appropriate age he had eight months of
trench warfare in France, and after being
invalided home studied veterinary surgery
and qualified. During his military training
at Aldershot he had Baden-Powell for a
commanding officer. He was an ardent Scout,
and was in the middle of an article for the
local Boy Scout paper when he died.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The “ Explosives” House
ê
ë
ē
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919 .. 38,598 8 p.c. = 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 .. 42,987 8 „ .. 20,488 8,454 20,610
1921 .. 37,403 10i ~ „ 27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 .. 45,597 10 ~ „ 32,473 12,500 21,378
1923 .. 58,655 10 ~ 39,207 13,000 27,826
1924 . . 55,303 10 „ ~ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23,537
1925 . . 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18,000 24,437
1926 .. 89,526 10 „ ~57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 . . 90,515 10 ~ „ 61,375 27,700 31.316
1928 . - 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Old.
(7 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
1929 .. 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
(8 p.c.)
1931 . . 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 1
Provident fund, £lOOO . . S ’
It was a steady 10 p.c. proposition for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1929. But
conditions have changed completely since then.
The slackness in industry and growth in
unemployment brought a drop of £10,696 in
last year’s revenue, notwithstanding an
increase of 641 in the number of consumers:
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,564 £9,463
1916 . . 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 . . 7,596 80,496 31,456
1926 . . 19,310 187,719 83,693
1927 . . 21,267 207,509 97,994
1928 .. 23,125 226,183 104,237
1929 . . 24,928 243,373 117,553
1930 . . 26,239 270,005 126,420
1931 . . 26,880 259,309 110,821
There was a saving of £15,599 in working
exes., mainly on account of the new plant.
Still, after striking off £lOOO for bad debts,
setting aside an extra £5500 for taxation
(£27,500), allowing an additional £B2OO for
depreciation, shown as. written off in the
table, and attending to the pref. requirements,
the £66,157 that remained was 8.4 p.c. on
average capital as against a bit over 10 p.c.
for several years previously. Hence a couple
of points were snipped off the div., reducing
it to 8 p.c.
Visibly there never has been a lot to spare.
Much depends upon whether allowances for
depreciation (£310,242 at April 30) prove to
be more or less than is necessary. They are
considered when fixing the price of cur-
rent, which is controlled, the aim being to
ensure a “reasonable return” on capital. The
probabilities are, therefore, that the allow-
ances are no more than a fair thing. As con-
ditions become more settled industrial activi-
ties can be expected to liven, and the co.’s
earnings should benefit. But it is diffi-
cult to say what might be considered a
“reasonable return” from a public utility in
the future. For many years the gas cos.’
divs. have been practically fixed at a maxi-
mum 8 p.c. by the N. S. Wales legislature;
and now that the public effort is directed
towards lowering the cost of living there has
been talk of interference with that rate.
The co.’s franchises cover five suburban
areas, all hemmed in by the big Sydney elec-
trical-supply undertaking. Except the
original franchise (Balmain), which is per-
petual, the co.’s rights have up to 36 years
to run, subject in all cases to purchase
options, mostly at 10-year intervals, by the
councils concerned.
A couple of years ago a quarter-million of
scrip was issued to finance plant extensions
and the purchase of city office premises. The
position as balance-sheet figures show it is
as follows:
1921. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £262,426 £601,250 £875,000 £916,667
Debentures .. 50,000
Other liabilities 59,873 50,390 126,096 99,326
Fixed assets.. 413,875 818,196 1,312,605 1,358,004
Stocks, etc. .. 24,952 19,129 21,072 16,586
Book debts .. 15,403 13,088 11,289 11,718
Cash. etc. .. 15,868 ■, 3,563 6,182 19,988
Another ss. (£41,667) was got in on the
prefs. last year, making paid capital £916,607
in 833,333 ords. and 166,667 prefs.—the
prefs. are paid to 15s. and 83,333 of the ords.
to 10s. This and the year's surplus earnings
enabled £26.770 to be lopped off the debt,
£45,399 to be added to the book value of
the main undertaking, and cash, etc., to be
strengthened by £13,806. The financial posi-
tion improved £36,519: the debt exceeded
more or less liquids by £51,034 at April 30.
The fully-paid ords. fetch 21s. in the
market as against 28s. 6d. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 7.6 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. For the 7 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which enjoy priority as to capital, 14s. is
paid. At that price the return is 7.6 p.c.;
the backing, including uncalled capital, is
£6 4s. lid. in net tangibles, all plant, etc.,
worth what it can earn.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to lie- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 223 35,987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 .. .. 26,777
Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 \ ~,
Provident Fund, £914 .. S 1 7 ’
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 t RfISR „o
Provident Fund, £3047 .. j bUB6
1924.. 21,275 3004 3756 10,149 )
Provident Fund, £2140 . . J
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 1 qo QR „
Provident Fund, £1262 .. \ 4446 39 ’ 966
1926.. 26,986 3425 7665 6,798 1 _,. ar . . 7
Provident Fund, £1513 .. ) ,585 4 '- 551
All Shares.
1927. . 28,186 8 p.c. = 141 000 7874 l 46?1 22
Provident Fund, £1641 .. )
1928.. 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 1 4q4s K 7 17n
Provident Fund, £1791 .. $ ’
1929. . 29 207 8 p.c = 14,389 7179 J 3994 61
Written off, £3645 ) ’
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil 1 15407 66 571
Provident Fund, £612 .. j 04U7
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil \ 001 a no «90
Provident Fund, £5OB .. j ’
After a few 10 p.c. divs. early in the cen-
tury the rate dropped to 7 p.c; it was
lifted to 8 p.c. during the post-war run of
high prices. Also rebates of 20 p.c. on wool
and 10 p.c. on livestock and produce charges
were made to clients, many of whom are
shareholders. Then came the break in the
market; wool fell to pre-war levels, costs
were stubborn, and profits for the 12 months
to March 31, 1930, were a little more than
one-fifth of the previous year’s. So, for the
second time since the beginning of the cen-
tury, no div. was paid, and the rebates were
dropped.
The co. started the last term with 20,340
bales in hand. Receipts (76,387 bales)
were 15,312 lighter than the previous year’s,
but sales were a record, only 3601 bales
being left in the store when the books closed.
So, although the Sydney average per bale
for the 10 months to April 30 (£ll Bs. 3d.)
was £2 4s. Bd. lighter than for the corres-
ponding period of the previous season, and
there was a steep fall in livestock and pro-
duce prices, ; the slip in gross profits
(£80,299) was no more than £7792. Exes.
(£69,503) were pulled back £12,569. Thus
the final figure was 4.6 p.c. on capital as
against 2i4, 12.2, 11.8, 11.6 and 14 p.c. back
to 1926. Shareholders were handed 3 p.c.,
but no rebates were made to consignors.
Though the seasonal outlook is bright
and the wool market has lost much of its
recent drabness, earnings on the same scale
as of former years cannot be expected.
Results will depend largely on exes., and
whether the allowance for contingencies
proves to be adequate.
During the last seven years the co. has
gone deeper into the pastoral finance busi-
ness, has bought stock-resting depots at
Dubbo and Wallangarra, a one-third interest
in a western stock-and-station business, and
built itself a fine new wool-store. To do
all this an extra £138,443 of capital has
been got in since 1924, and the co. has leant
heavily on outsiders:—
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £93,871 £175,000 £232,314 £232,314
Liabilities .. 169,790 207,241 206,222 157,575
Buildings, etc. 211,635 261,954 257,308 255,753
Stocks.. .. 2,170 5,204 1,340 987
Book debts .. 90,553 ]
Cash and public 1 209,056 271,885 237,124
securities .. 15,753 J
During theyear the bookvalue of advances was
reduced by £34,761, and £48,647 was lopped
off the debt —how much, if any, of the latter
is fixed is not visible in the sheet. Alto-
gether there was an improvement of £13,533
in the financial position ; more or less liquids
exceeded liabilities by £80,536 at March 31.
On the market the pound shares fetch Bs.
as against 255. lOd. two years ago._ At Bs.
the return is 7.5 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
They are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 265.
Prestige, Ltd.
r Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 12,941 544 10 p.c. = 3,761 8636 14,660
Written off buildings, £2OOO .. 12,660
Share premiums, £3425 .. .. 16,085
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. . . 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 . . . . 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,227 2,542 90,066
This is one of the most promising of Aus-
tralian hosiery manufacturers. The post-
war slump caused trouble at the start. But
the hoard tackled its problems in the right
way; half the capital was jettisoned, early
technical difficulties were overcome, and
attention was turned to marketing. The idea
was to improve quality and push sales by
vigorous advertising, and some remarkable
results have been achieved. The div. and
bonuses reached 20 p.c. in 1929, and 15 p.c.
was paid in the following term, despite
general failure of spring and summer sales.
Last year the market became flooded with
cut lines in a scramble for ready cash, thus
accelerating price recessions, and making it
difficult to pass on primage, sales and
other taxes. Still,, the business held, though
retailers adopted a hand-to-mouth policy,
leaving manufacturers to carry the risk of
stocks. After taking these into account at
£16,553 more than at the previous balance,
there was a slip of £9711 in gross profits
(£108,187). Exes. (£90,418, including
£3531 put aside for the taxgatherer as
against £6250 in the previous term) were
£3120 heavier, so there was a sharp drop
of £12,831 in the net result.
Still, allowing for the pref. requirements
(£4580 p.a.), there was enough to show
12.3 p.c. on average ordinary capital com-
pared with 37.7, 44.1, 30.3 and 34.7 p.c.,
back to 1927. The final div., which was
at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., was double the
interim distribution, but the 5 p.c. bonus,
which was sent out in each of the four
preceding years, was cut in halves, thus
making 10 p.c. in all for the year. But
share premiums make 10 p.c. worth no' more
than 6.6 p.c. op capital got in since 1925,
and the writing off above referred to reduces
the return to half the declared rate on old
holdings.
The financial structure and the quick
development of the business are seen in the
next comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £130,786 £155,242 £165,014
Debentures .. 9,563
Overdraft .. 7,460 84 9,906 17,814
Sundry creditors 3,948 21,753 32,506 46,226
Freehold . . 15,126 44,192 58,596 59,355
Plant, etc. .. 15,059 52,681 91,203 114,516
Stocks . . 16,646 91,681 127,661 144,214
Book debts, etc. 9,669 34,312 18,108 15,391
Cash.. .. 6,679 24 10 24
To carry last year’s extra stocks and spend
£23,313 more than was written off on plant,
the board went to its bankers for an extra
£7908, leant upon trade' creditors for a
further £13,720, and gathered £9772 of fresh
capital. Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£96,589, including stocks) was
£6778 lighter than at the close of accounts
in 1930.
As for the outlook, an effort is to be made
to stop the drift in public finance, thus help-
ing to bring about more stable trading con-
ditions. But all that seems certain at the
moment is a deep and irrecoverable cut in
the return from Government bonds,' and
stinging increases in sales, primage and
other taxes, thus further narrowing profit
margins. Results will largely depend upon
the extent to which exes, can be curbed.
Meanwhile the co. continues to get its full
share of business available.
On the market the fully-paid 10s. ords.
fetch 14s. 9d. as against 17s. 6d. a year
ago. Allowing for the final div. and bonus,
the return at the lower price is 7.2 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. distribution. The net tangible
backing amounts to 18s. 4d. per. share, all
in plant, etc., worth what it can earn. The
£1 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which are covered by
£4 9s. in net tangibles, return 8.8 p.c. at 18s.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7£ p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £> £> £>
1929 25,211 9375 8 i p.c. = 10,625 5211 61,874
1930 14,436 9375 Nil 5061 56,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 44,936
1931 13,106 9375 Nil 3731 41,205
Very little information concerning the old
business has been given out; and the report
and accounts tell no more than they have to
about the present co.’s affairs. It took over
in March, 1928, from the trustees of the
late R. J. Alcock the tea business of James
Service and Co., including the Robur Tea
Co. The price was £275,689, of which £75,000
(in scrip) was for goodwill, not treated as
an asset herein. Paid capital is £250,000,
half ords. and the other half prefs. The ords.
are held privately, public interest being con-
fined to the 7| p.c. cum. prefs. They enjoy
priority as to capital, and are not to exceed
half the total scrip issued.
A promising start was made, and the ords.
got 8i p.c. in the first year. Then it was
decided to go into the tea-room business, the
manufacture of table pottery, etc., was
undertaken, and activities were extended to
N. S. Wales, where ,the business of the
Oriental Tea Co. was bought. The initial
expense in connection; with these new activi-
ties, including interest on borrowed funds,
made itself felt; thus there was a contrac-
tion of £10,775 in 1930 profits, and the ords.
were passed by.
Last year the co. shared the general experi-
ence, and, after handing the prefs. their
£9375, enough remained to show but 4.9 P-
on ord. capital as against 6.7 p.c. and 12.6
p.c. in the two preceding terms. So the
ords. went hungry again. It is possible that
the result was better than claimed. There
was an unexplained addition of £11,877 to
reserves, but this may have been due, wholly
or partly, to a revaluation of fixed assets,
to the book value of which £18,884 was added
during the term.
Consider these figures :
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. .. 57,551 84,464 94,286
Property, shares etc... 53,491 129,117 148,001
Stocks 156,076 114,826 125,784
Book debts .. . . 41,800 39,395 34,983
Cash 9,623
During the year £37,429 was added to the
overdraft (£44,673), and £27,607 was wiped
off the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£49,613, including something for taxation),
leaving the net increase in the debt at £9822.
This, the reduction in debtors’ balances ami
the surplus of profit claimed total £17,965.
That figure exceeded the growth in the stock
item by £7007, which together with the un-
explained addition to reserves represents the
increase in the book value of property, etc.
The more or less liquid surplus (£66,481.
including stocks) was £3276 lighter than at
the previous balance.
The shrinkage in profits, the growth in the
debt and the sharpening of competition have
made the position of the prefs. less attrac-
tive. Last year’s declared net earnings were
over lj times their annual requirements, and
the book value of the cover amounted to
335. 4d. in net tangibles. For the scrip 17s.
is asked; at that figure the return is
8.8 p.c.
Toowoomba Permanent Building
This Queensland provincial building
society is conducted on purely mutual lines
for the benefit of its depositors and bor-
rowers. There are no profits, or even
bonuses, for anyone. Thus little or no in-
come tax is payable, and depositors receive
7 p.c. interest, while borrowers pay 7i p.c.;
the i p.c. margin covers all expenses, and
a reserve fund of £15,907 has been built up.
This table shows how the society’s mem-
bership has bounded ahead since the bonus
system was dropped in 1923, and deposi-
tors compensated by an increased interest
rate: —
Interest Other
Feb., Deposits. Advances. Income. Paid. ■ Outgo.
1923 . . £206,537 £212,744 £16,795 £12,929 £1927
1924 . . 257,012 278,163 20,456 15,905 4207
1925 . . 312,320 323,860 23,022 19,620 3308
1926 .. 375,281 393,970 27,944 23,493 2749
1927 . . 445,083 460,638 34,057 27,805 3139
1928 . . 519,918 533,000 37,330 32,953 3240
1929 . . 594,806 610,114 43,212 38,101 4526
1930 . . 683,018 697,011 48,693 43,694 4171
1931 . . 721,911 716,148 53,547 48,314 4399
Last term money was tighter, and deposits
(£721,911) made a net increase of £38,892
a s against £88,212 in the previous year.
Advances mounted to £716,148, the net jump
being £19,136 for the year. Loans are made
on mortgage for 20-year periods or longer
to purchasers or builders of homes, who have
the right to pay back in a lump if they
wish. Gross earnings (including interest
on advances, £51,354) were £53,547, up
£4854. Salaries, bank charges, general
exes., taxation and depreciation got off with
only £4399 (still a low figure, though up
£228 during the year), and, after paying
£48,314 to depositing members, £834 re-
mained for reserves (£15,907). These show
an unexplained drop of £1412, presumably
due to provision for bad debts.
Here is the position from another angle:
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Deposits .. £257,012 £594,806 £683,018 £721,911
Other liabilities 9,449 1,039 215 131
Suspense account 9,040 16,702 15,609 4,550
Reserves .. 10,321 15,359 16,485 15,907
Advances .. 278,163 610,114 697,011 716,148
Premises and
fittings .. 2,309 2,224 2,198 2,148
Investments, etc. 7,090 16,318 16,868 24,953
The board became more cautious last year.
Advances dropped to 99.2 p.c. of deposits
as against 102 p.c. and 102.6 p.c. in the two
preceding years, and 108.2 p.c. in 1924. The
effect shows up in an increase of £BOB5 in
Government securities and cash (£24,953).
Suspense account (£4550, down £11,059 dur-
ing the year) presumably represents loans
authorised but not actually made. Borrow-
ers, after being granted a loan, have the
right to leave it with the society free of
interest for three months before taking
it up.
The declared policy of the board has been
to make no advances for speculative pur-
poses. Provided ample margin is allowed
for security of loans, the absence of share
capital as additional backing for depositors
doesn’t matter a great deal. They and bor-
rowers respectively receive and pay more
favorable rates of interest than if share-
holders had to be considered. Apart from
its depositors’ balances, the society owes only
£l3l.
(Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


m
m
x:
V' • %
%
It is quite true
- ■ 1- •" &
that
De Reszke Virginias
cost
• v ;• . I '
Only Sixpence
for nine.
‘CorK* and ‘lvory’-tipped
''i ■ '
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS
(AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY, LTD.


Conversion
What does it mean?
What will the new rates
bring in?
How will it affect banks?
How will it affect insurance
policies?
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
for June discusses these and
many other problems of practi-
cal importance to investors
large and small.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEU ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent - Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * • *
Pioneer Wood Tanks are ideal equipment for the
storage of any type of liquid. They ensure absolute
purity of the water supply, and for acids, alkalies,
wine and such like fluids they are unequalled. Abso-
lutely non-corrosive, easy to erect, strong, durable,
and inexpensive. Write for free particulars to the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
He ❖ *** *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888)
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
e
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced ,
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, room With breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout tho Emplro.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary; R. V. BOOTH.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Science in vain still seeks the source of life,
To all appeals no deities respond.
Conflicting dogmas stir the world to strife —
Behold, we know not anything beyond.
Our commonsense inspired by what we know
Still strives to soothe the anguish all endure —
For coughs and colds a prompt response we owe
To Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
OUR RECKLESS BANKS.
HOW THEY HELP RECKLESS POLITICIANS
TO PILE UP DEFICITS AND ENCOURAGE
REPUDIATION.
SEE “THE BARRIER MINER”
OF LAST SATURDAY'.
The Great Daily Paper of Broken Hill
and. the Far West.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
N.S.W. Savings Bank and Rural Bank
The Commonwealth Bank has made cer-
tain proposals with regard to taking over
the Government Savings Bank, and they
await the consideration of the Premier when
he settles down in Sydney again. The direc-
tors have hitherto made it quite clear that
they are not eager to absorb the concern,
and would be very glad to see it otherwise
provided for; but no alternative scheme has
been put forward.
The Commonwealth Bank has been
obliged, of course, to consider its own posi-
tion, which, so far as ready money is con-
cerned, has been very greatly affected by
the Government’s heavy demands during the
past 18 months. It may therefore suggest
that, if it takes over the G. 5.8., withdrawals
of old G.S.B. deposits shall be rationed.
The board declines for the present to
touch the Rural Bank or Homes Depart-
ment. The services and operations of these
departments are, it is claimed, not pure
banking; and it is recalled that when at
the start of the Commonwealth Bank the
Queensland Savings Bank was taken over,
its Home-building Department was left with
the State Government. Subsequently the
then _ governor of the bank resisted strong
political pressure put upon him 1 to make the
ordinary operations of the bank include a
home-building programme. There is there-
fore ample precedent for the bank’s refusal
to take over th.e Rural Bank and the Homes
Department. The State Government will
have to hafidle them itself.
A question has been raised by a corres-
pondent regarding Rural Bank inscribed
stock. Apparently the position of the Sav-
ings Bank in relation to the finance of the
Rural Bank is a good deal misunderstood.
The Savings Bank never guaranteed any
Rural Bank debenture issue. According to
section 49 of the G.S.B. Act .1906, “the
due payment of such debentures or inscribed
stock and the interest thereon shall be a
charge on all moneys and securities held
by the Commissioners on behalf of the
Rural Bank Department, and is hereby
guaranteed by the Government. Any lia-
bility arising from such guarantee shall be
payable out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund.”
Thus the Commonwealth Bank can take
over the Savings Bank Department without
becoming in any way involved with the
Rural Bank and Homes departments, whose
debenture and other bills are backed not by
the G.S.B. but by the Government.
National Reliance Investment Trust
This little investment trust has been able
to steer clear of harm in a market full of
pitfalls. It was launched in Melbourne in
April, 1930, and offered 250.000 shares of
10s. each. Of these 100165 were taken;
paid capital is thus £50,082.
When the books closed at March 31 last
this was supplemented by £22.058 of bor-
rowed funds and £1644 of surplus earnings.
To represent the lot there were investments
with a book value of £70,905 (cost), includ-
ing £2721 of securities sold but not delivered,
and £635 of cash and book debts. Prelim-
inary exes, were a moderate £2253.
To protect capital investment changes were
made at the expense of income. Nevertheless,
the deals showed a capital profit of £3Ol,
which has been earmarked as an investment
fluctuation reserve. Moreover, the market
value of the securities was £l6BB in excess
of their book value at the close of accounts.
Government and public-body stocks (includ-
ing £40.000 of 3J and 3f per cents.) in
Australia, Maoriland and London accounted
for about 93 p.c. of the investments. The
lot turned in £1957, and another £778 was
earned from underwriting, making total
income £2735. Management charges took
£534; interest, £658 ; taxes, £2OO. That left
£1343 net (=3.2 p.c. on average capital), out
of which a 2i p.c. div. took £1043, leaving
£6Ol, including capital profits, to offset pre-
liminary exes.
The board, headed by Stan Ricketson, con-
siders that it can profitably employ double
the present capital. So those on the register
are offered 100,160 new 10s. shares at par,
one for one. Though the future is doubtful
and the market ei-ratic, with prospects of
a statutory reduction of interest on Gov-
ernment paper, and by the banks, and pos-
sibly in mortgage rates also, the natural
rate should fall as conditions become more
settled ; and that ought to be accompanied by
a hardening of prices for sound securities.
Everything, of course, depends on the way in
which the Governments carry out their part
of the programme.
A well-managed trust offers many advan-
tages to the common or garden variety of
investor. It provides him with expert ser-
vice, ensures a spread of risks and relieves
him of the anxiety of managing to the best
advantage a small portfolio. On the other
hand he can expect but modest returns until
such time as substantial reserves have been
accumulated.
“Compensation” at Broken Hill
Under the N.S.W. law administered at
Broken Hill by the Compensation Scheme
Joint Committee, mining cos. are liable, not
merely for weekly or monthly payments to
sick workers, but for the actuarial value of
their assessed liability. Thus it came about
that some time ago the B. H. Junction North
was asked to produce £49,500, that being the
total sum plus interest which it was esti-
mated the co. would be liable to pay to its
workers “on compensation.” The co. having
scarcely a bean left, having spent everything
in a struggle to keep its mines going in
bad times, had to submit to judgment given
against it; and all its assets were lately
offered by a sheriff’s officer to satisfy the
judgment.
The principal assets were the Pinnacles
mine and plant and the B. H. Junction
North. The Pinnacles, one of the oldest pro-
perties on the Barrier, has been worked for
some years, on and off, by the co.; a Broken
Hill dealer bought it and the buildings on it
for, £3O. The plant was almost given away—
except a Vickers-Petters Diesel engine, which
brought £7OO. Installed it had cost the co.
£BOOO. A tube-mill brought £5 and a rock-
breaker £5 10s. Each cost over a thousand.
Next day the parent lease and plant were
sold. The neighboring B. H. North was the
only bidder and got the lot for £2750.
The total sales were about £3750; and
costs incurred in getting judgment, etc.,
amount to £2OOO.
The case should start a vigorous and
searching inquiry into the whole business of
compensation at Broken Hill, especially as
to whether it is not needlessly expensive. It
was adopted when the cos. were ready to
yield almost anything and do almost any-
thing for the sake of peace. Now, when
more than half the population has lost its
job and the balance is in great danger,
there is urgent need to inquire whether the
scheme is not a ridiculous burden upon the
industry.
Life Offices and Inflation
(1) How did life offices fare in Germany
after inflation? (2) In the event of Aus-
tralia inflating, how would Australian life
cos. be affected? — Service Dept. Inquiry.
(1) The policies were contracts to pay
certain sums in the old currency. That was
easily enough done, the old mark eventu-
ally becoming valueless. But the Govern-
ment did not consider that equitable, as all
property was not equally affected, and upon
the introduction of the new currency caused
an actuarial valuation to be made of all
life cos.’ policies and assets, policy-holders
benefiting in the ratio of the gold-value of
their premiums when paid in, and according
to the nature of the assets. One policy-
holder who took out cover valued at 15,000
old marks in 1920, and who had paid in
premiums worth £lO in gold at date of
payments, finally received 10s. (2) Depends
on the extent of the inflation and nature of
the offices’ investments; The latter being
mostly in Government and private loans,
assets would deteriorate in the same ratio as
our pound note depreciated, and the buy-
ing-power of policy-holders’ cover would be
reduced in approximately the same propor-
tions. Policy-holders would be thus legally
robbed. In the event of a considerable
part of an office’s assets not being affected
by inflation (such as real property), it
seems likely that an actuarial valuation
would be made as in Germany, and a further
distribution made, having due regard to the
interests of shareholders (if any).
“Itski”; Australia’s metal industries have
much more to fear from the Soviet Five
Year Plan than from Mussolini (B.
27/5/’3l). The United Non-ferrous and
Precious Metals Industries of the Soviet
Union, headed by Gulin, has recently con-
cluded a series of agreements with Ameri-
can cos. providing for technical assistance
in the designing, constructing and operating
of a number of lead, zinc and copper plants
throughout Russia. Already 65 American
mining and metallurgical engineers have
gone over. An agreement has also been
made for an extensive electrical prospecting
campaign in selected areas in the Union.
A lead-zinc smelter at Wladikawhas is being
erected by the Soviet at an estimated cost of
46 million roubles. This smelter, to be in
operation at the end of this year, will have
an output of 20,000 tons zinc and 12,000
tons lead annually, the zinc capacity of
this one plant being more than Italy’s whole
production, and the lead more than half.
In the Ural mountains, at Bogomol, a large
copper plant and smelter is expected to
commence during this month. The flota-
tion plant will treat 5000 tons daily,
the ore assaying 2 per cent, copper and 39
per cent, sulphur. The annual production
is expected to be 35,000 tons red metal per
annum, or almost three times Mt. Lyell’s
expected production when present exten-
sions are complete. The Bogomol plant cost
the Soviet £7,000,000 and is the first large
copper plant under the Soviet plan.
Summarised, in 1932, the last year of the
Five Year Plan, and provided everything
works out to schedule, there will be in
operation in Russia four electrolytic zinc
and one zinc distillation plant, with a total
annual output of 135,000 long tons; five
lead plants with an annual production _of
143,000 tons; nine copper plants producing
205,000 tons annually ; a nickel smelter (2500
tons annual capacity) ; mercury distillation
works (500 tons output) ; and two
electrolytic aluminium plants (20,000 tons
output). Annual production of tin at the
end of 1932 is expected to total 1000 tons,
antimony 1000 tons and magnesium 1000
tons.
* * * *
Sydney’s latest mining float is Pioneer
Gold Development (N.L.), formed in the
first place for acquiring a hundred acres
at Forest Reefs, in the Orange district.
The co. is also willing to investigate other
gold propositions and invites owners and
prospectors to get in touch with it. _ The
property is in country which has yielded
a lot of gold in the past, and is adjacent
to the old Victory ifiine, one of the best
deep alluvial shows of its day, the owners
of which worked only on one level, to
abandon it when the wash dipped out of
sight. Capital of Pioneer is £7,500 in
150,000 Is. shares. Years ago the ground
was worked with excellent results. Pre-
liminary reports on the property are en-
couraging and it is proposed to commence
prospecting and development in earnest in
the near future.
* * * *
As gold is being eagerly hunted for all
over Australia, there are some grounds for
the claims made by Adam Spies, well known
old N.S.W. mining hand, for investigating by
modern methods some of the old N.S.W.
alluvial fields at one time yielding big
quantities of gold. Among these are the
Mudgee and Gulgong districts, where even
the richest shows were worked mostly in
haphazard fashion, often by amateurs, and
abandoned when the underground alluvial
leads were lost, or the -water came in too
strongly for the appliances of the time to
cope with it.
* * * *
“Spare Towkay”: In spite of the re-
striction scheme, the price of tin has flopped
to the £lOO mark—the lowest recorded for
many years. Visible supplies at the end
of April, after the restriction scheme came
into operation, were 150 p.c. higher than
normal (over 48,000 tons). Where they
came from no one seems to know. The
-situation is not improved by the fact that
consumption has not increased as expected.
Probably the severe business depression in
America (the world’s leading consumer of
tin) is responsible for this. Under the
circumstances, it is not surprising that the
International Tin Committee has decided to‘
recommend to the Governments concerned
that production should be reduced further
by 20,000 tons. The quotas of the pro-
ducing . countries, parties to the scheme, as
from June 1 will be: Bolivia, 25,818
long tons as against 34,260 formerly;
Malaya, 45,355 tons as against 53,925;
Netherlands East Indies. 21,159 tons
(29,910) ; and Nigeria, 6153 tons (7750).
$ * :!: *
Malayan tin production by Australian
companies for May kept up to the average
permitted under the restriction scheme, but
with metal prices at last week’s level it.
looks as though some of the poorer shows
will hang up, costly as that is in itself.
Austral-Malay’s three working mines, Asam,
Puchong and Pungah, recovered 177 tons
of tin oxide, averaging £63.33 per ton at
the smelters. Puchong stopped indefinitely
in the middle of the month; costs are not
given for the 30 tons recovered. Asam and
Pungah show an average of 3.4 d. per yard.
Asam has declared a div. of 6d. per share
(its 35th) payable on June 23. Alluvial
Tin had eight mines producing, though one
of the Kuala Kampar dredges has shut down
during conversion to electric drive. The
total recovery was 460 tons of oxide, realis-
ing £28,912. Costs came to £19,394. Among
other cos., Takuapa reported 120 tons, with
a net value of £7700. Ratrut Basin, working
one dredge, won 14 tons, net value £BBO.
* * * 4c
Because the Wiluna plant is not per-
forming up to expectations, it will be some
months before the anticipated duty of 40,000
tons monthly is obtained. The weak spots
are in the fine-grinding and electric-power
sections, but as they are purely mechanical
they can be remedied. . It is simply a matter
of cost. The equipment has already run into
about half a million, and there seems noth-
ing else to do but add about £50,000 more to
plant account.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
If the Commonwealth is responsible for
all the debts of all the States, how is it that
N.S.W. stocks are lower than the rest? Is
the “taking over” the real thing ? —3861.
The Financial Agreement Act 1928 pro-
vided for the taking over on July 1, 1929,
of (a) the balance then unpaid of the gross
public debt of each State existing on June
30, 1927; and (5) all other debts of each
State existing on July 1, 1929, for moneys
borrowed by that State, “which by this agree-
ment are deemed to be moneys borrowed by
the Commonwealth for and on behalf of the
State”; it is provided also that the Corn-
momvcalth “will in respect of other debts so
taken over assume the liabilities of the
States to bondholders.” But the States have
to supply the interest. This _ the N.S.'' •
Government has refused to do since April 1,
and it is defending a High Court action
designed to compel it. Hence the’ lower
quotations for N.S.W. stocks.
If Australia defaulted, what would he the
value of its silver and bronze coins? 3814.
Brown has been living beyond his means
and presently defaults on an interest bill.
He has been giving p.n.'s, whose value obvi-
ously now depends on (1) their volume and
(2) Brown’s assets. So with a country, llie
value of its silver coins depends mainly on
the extent of its inflationfor living beyond
a country’s means is inflation, though it may
be disguised for a while by borrowing.
(1) Can shareholders ash auditors for an
explanation of items? (2) Is there any
check on their work? If so, by whom? (•>)
Is an auditor a Government official, respon-
sible to the Government? (4) Mush share-
holders take his report as final? —387-.
(1) There is nothing to. stop them. But we
doubt whether there is any power in law
to compel auditors to answer. (2) No. (4)
No; he must be appointed by -the share-
holders, who fix his remuneration, and he
is responsible to them. (4) No; they_can
elect somebody else, and have the whole thing
re-opened.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.P.: (1) Can't say definitely, but 645. 6d,.
in July, 1929, was probably the highest price ever
quoted for Tooth’s shares. (2) Scrip sold as low as
19s. 3d. in July, 1921; in October, 1930, there was
a sale at 20s. In between £1,262,597 of reserves
had been capitalised. (3) A hundred shares is the
usual “parcel”; that number would cost about
£ll7 at present. Purchase through a member of
the Stock Exchange. (4) The brewery has most
attractions N.D.: Industrials would probably be
as good as any—stocks like General Industries....
E.Y.S.: Yes. But don’t worry—scrip isn’t title....
E. 8.; (1) They are following the custom. (2) As
they are making their divs., not out of sales of
MX. timber, but out of sales of bonds in Australia,
payment in Australian currency seems right....
J.T.W.: No, it is all a gamble.... D.W.: (1) Yes.
(2) No; see answer to 3814. . . .R.S. and J.R.:
Applicants for unemployment relief for prospecting
in Q’land must be residents of the State and have had
experience in mining and prospecting. Apply through
nearest warden... .R.M.F.: Mines Dept., Sydney, will
furnish typewritten memorandum on construction and
use of gold-washing cradle.


è


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's i... “The Love Race”
Royal (com. Saturday) ..... “The Calendar”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal .. .. . “The Mikado”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Evening at the Blaxland
Watching Lindrum and Newman at the
Blaxland Galleries, Sydney, is a thing to
do your eyes, good. There is spacious music
in the * faint; 'click-click-click-click-click of
these mesmerised spheres. “Spheres” is not
a crib from the sporting editions. To call
one of them a ball would be a descent into
immature golf. They are spheres, and this
is a planetary place, with a dress-vested
magician for its god and the godly practice
of controlling it in shifts. Old Time has
enjoyed the joke of the turning of it green.
He has swapped his glass for a jigger, his
scythe for a pair of white gloves and his
name for Marker.
Click-click-click-click-click.
Faintly .... deliberately .... soothing ....
smoothing down the nerves... .better, than a
tonic. Just to look at Mr. Lindrum—Wally,
as we call him in our respectful privacy—
is as restful as watching sheep in a paddock.
He hak the poise of Pavlova, the suavity of
Chaplifa, the grace of Miss Bremuer, the
hands of Jimmy Pike, the speed of Phar Lap,
the delicacy of Cinquevailli, the confidence of
Bradman....
Hullo! Great heavens, he’s missed it!
No; thank heavens, he’s missed it. Enable
us to see our gods at from half a crown to
ten bqb a pop, but please let them be fallible
gods. Perhaps even George Rex, after that
two hours and ten minutes he insisted upon
Lindrum’s being with him, thought some-
thing like that. Perhaps when Lindrum
went down the marble stairs and got into
the Lord Mayor’s billycart, or whatever
favored vehicle bore him thence, our Sov-
ereign thought wistfully of the spectacle he
would have then been presenting to the
shuddering chandeliers if he had played Lin-
drum for the royal headgear and robes.
Maybe he threw up his crown and did a
hearty hornpipe out of sheer simple plea-
sure in the one Wally missed. Or perhaps
he took down the royal cue, addressed the
royal ball and did the shot! And then went
to bed satisfied that he was still a king.
“Pity Lindrum did not induce the King to
come on tour with him.”
And sprang out of the royal bed in the
morning and kidded the Duke of York into
the billiard-room and gave him the father
of a lining.
It is a pity Lindrum did not induce the
King to come on this tour with him. It
would have braced up the box-office. No
disrespect to Newman is intended. He has
fine points as a spectacle. He has a very
large jaw, but appears to be intel-
ligent. Still, the King might have been a
better draw; for it has to be admitted that
the opening night was, in respect of audi-
ence, something of a frost. A painful loss,
that —to those who stayed away. Lindrum
gazed on the empty seats, and they inspired
him to wizardry. He tapped up hundred
after hundred. His touch was so infinitely
light and clean that once, when a tiny par-
ticle of chalk detached from his cue, Marker
remold it from the cloth with the tip of
a white-gloved finger and an air of pained
surprise.
Since then the box office has brightened a
lot, and perhaps when the news of Lin-
drum’s magic and Newman’s stylishness gets
abroad the seats may be even better filled. If
that does not do it, Lindrum and Newman
might work the oracle by abandoning leger-
dermain and adopting the plain, common or
garden variety of billiards that we play
when we go into the little room adjoining
the Star and Anchor for a friendly hundred
up. Not that we have ever noticed any
urgent rush of spectators wanting to get in.
Rather the other way about. But billiards
as we play it is wonderfully strong in those
two great essentials of entertainment, sur-
prise and spectacle. We may not be quite
in Lindrum’s class, but the six of us are
prepared to take him on any time he likes
for the catch-as-catch-can championship of
the world.
His difficulty would not be so much a
matter of matching us as watching us. For
example, the other day our best player, Boss,
put his head out of the window to look at
an aeroplane. His score at once went back
20, whilst Heatley’s went on twenty. That
is an instance of what we mean by the “sur-
prise” element in our game. At any rate, it
greatly surprised Boss when Heatley went
out next stick with a magnificently-compiled
break of two. Perhaps our most regular
break is to pot the white and then miscue,
though the fine shot which misses everything
except the cushions is a fairly steady per-
formance. Now and then we establish breaks
of as many as 30, but perhaps, strictly
speaking, these do not come under the cate-
gory of billiards, since they are invariably
made on the scoring-board when the other
fellow is trying to make up his mind whether
he will sink the red or miss it.
As for those trick shots with which Lin-
drum and Newman close their sessions—
well, we regularly perform trick shots, such,
for instance, as going for a cannon direct
and getting it off three cushions, or going
to pot the white in the top pocket and get-
ting it off the table. Or when there are
two things on, such as pot the red and can-
non in the one shot, it is nothing whatever
for us to get neither. That is one section
of the game where we have it all over Lin-
drum—we can miss shots a thousand times
to his once. We can miss shots that he
couldn’t miss even if he stood on his head
and played them with a clothes-prop.
“Did a hornpipe out of simple pleasure in
the one Wally missed!"
Another thing that strikes us about these
Blaxland Galleries billiards is the compara-
tive infrequency with which either Lin-
drum or Newman lies on the table. We pride
ourselves on sometimes playing our best
strokes in this attitude, and since we always
play a faster game than either Lindrum or
Newman—that is to say, we make the balls
travel faster —we are accustomed to perform
feats of alacrity in getting back to the floor
that are at once interesting to witness and
good for the health. In case Lindrum and
Newman decline this graceful stance because
they fear it might tend to damage the cloth,
we would point out that, except in special
circumstances, we do not have our boots
on the table.
As for vocal accompaniment, there can
be no comparison. But try, if you will, to
compare the incoherent mumblings that
break from Lindrum and Newman now and
then with what we have to offer. The red
and plain are in perfect position for a can-
non, and Wick is using spot. Does he just
go up to the table and start a run that
will total 100 in two and a half minutes?
He does not. Having assured himself with
the immemorial question, “Who hits ’em?”
he cries triumphantly “Billiards for boys!”
and lashes ’em for two. And Gully, when
his ball has leapt round the table a couple
of times, only to stop within a mere foot
or so of scoring—what comfort he can get
from saying outright, “Stiffness ! No legs!”
Or take Queezer’s triumphant yell of “Cor-
responding angles!” when, having attempted
to pot the red in the top right-hand pocket,
he sees it double vigorously back and vanish
into the bottom left! And what is a com-
plete miss in the Lindrum-Newman brand of
billiards? It is merely “One away!” With
us it is a “dole ticket.”
One other thing—there is none of your
click-click-click about our game. It is either
a good honest bang-bang, like apples falling
on the roof, or else the dull thud that indi-
cates that a cushion, at least, has been hit.
The great difference between our game and
their’s is that they use only hands and
head, but we put body into it. To say that
Boss is oUr best player is to say, ipso facto,
he is our heaviest. In our game cannons
do not sound like a flapper putting “x’s”
on her typed love-letter in the firm’s time.
They sound like cannons. Big ones.
ft ft ft-
To express it in terms of color, Dawson
and Hambourg put on a rich magenta show
at Sydney Town Hall on their opening night.
To explain that it is necessary to mention
that Levitzki specialises in turquoise blue,
Clara Butt in dark brown, Backhaus in
purple, and Hizzy and Izzy in pale-lemon
yellow. To make it still more explicit, Mark
and Peter provide roast beef and beer,
whereas —but it is unnecessary to go further.
It is a toss-up, so the Government Statis-
tician says, whether Peter Dawson’s name
has been pasted more frequently on gramo-
phone records or on bottles. Hambourg,
from a very early age, though he has always
been a profoundly erudite musician, has
been associated with the largest and fiercest
"His score at once went back 20.”
fortissimo in captivity. Both gentlemen are
famous, and Dawson is also an Australian, so
the audience on Saturday night was large
and came prepared to be generous in the
matter of applause. It didn’t need to
exercise any generosity and used up so much
applause that it went home warm, though
the night was cold. Dawson opened the pro-
ceedings with Bach’s impression of Judgment
Day, and graduated, through Brahms, to
Bax’s Irish keening, “Rann of Exile,” and
Loewe’s setting of the Scottish ballad
“Edward.” Brahms also put “Edward” to
music, but Loewe’s version sings better.
Dawson’s tongue grapples with the Doric
almost as featly as Harry Lauder’s, but he
is equally at home in German, French and
English. A quartette of songs from Shaks-
peare helped to emphasise this last accom-
plishment, which isn’t as prevalent as it
might be among great singers. The Dawson
voice needs no description. It wears won-
derfully well and is as resonant and
incisive as ever. Behind it is a robust,
intensely-alive personality, a complete .mas-
tery of vocalism, and the instincts of a cos-
mopolitanly-trained musician. Among the
notable encore pieces on Saturday were
Moussorgsky’s “Flea,” Figaro’s song from
“The Barber” and “The Floral Dance.”
Hambourg opened with the “Appas-
sionata.” He plays it not at all like
Levitzki and not at all like Backhaus, but
he gets a magnificently impressive effect out
of the melody in the middle and winds up
in a great blaze of glory. In a group of
Chopin pieces the C sharp minor Scherzo
positively crackled with brilliancy. Debussy’s
submerged cathedral was very definitely
pictured—perhaps too definitely—and there
was a feast of pure Hambourgianism
in Lizst’s “Tenth Rhapsody,”' in which the
pianist let himself go. The, Steinway’s sigh
of relief after this was a beautiful touch of
pathos.
Alan Richardson, who plays Peter Daw-
son’s accompaniments, deserves a little para-
graph to himself. He knows his job.
ft- ft-
“ The Calendar” of Edgar Wallace, intro-
duced by Frank Harvey at Melbourne
Comedy, is in a different class from the
Julian Calendar, attributed ,to the emperor
of that name, which is still j going strong in
certain countries of the world ;..from the Gre-
gorian calendar, which is still vigorously
extant; the Mohammedan calendar, which
continues to enjoy an active old age; and
even the Republican calendar initiated by
the French revolutionists. The Wallacian
calendar lasted only two weeks and is un-
likely to find a place even in a theatrical
dictionary, of dates. The house where it
held brief sway will remain closed pending
the resurgence of Gregan McMahon in a
series of repertory plays.
ft- ft- ft-
In “Mariners,” produced by the Pros-
cenium Club in their new headquarters at
the Playhouse, Melbourne, the somewhat
innocuous Clemence Dane pursues with un-
praiseworthy persistence the not-very-inspir-
ing fortunes of a collection of middle-class
English people. The museum includes a
girl who is trying to retrieve a war-shocked
youth from the vice of drunkenness, a par-
son who gets shut out in the snow by an
“Newman declines this graceful stance.”
absurdly jealous wife, and a number of
stock subsidiary characters who indulge in
social persiflage which is meant to be airy
but succeeds in being as heavy as a library
of “Hansards.” The mariners get under
weigh with irritating slowness in the first
act, in the second they are perceived to be
becalmed, and they remain in that uninter-
esting condition until the final curtain. The
parson dies of ’flu, his wife of grief, the
young things get married, and that is all
there is to it. Collins Hilton gave a rea-
sonable rendering of the ecclesiastical
martyr, Madge Rowan’s Anne Shepperley
was of amateurism all compact, Margaret
Reid made a nice young creature of her
sister, Dorothy Wise presented a portrait
of an English matron after Lady Asquith,
David C. Reid was quite convincing
as the military washout, and Kathleen
Howell’s jealous parsoness merits an approv-
ing adjective. Godfrey Cass’s production is
worthy of cautious encouragement, and it
is a pity that it was wasted on such second-
rate material.
* * ft
Joan and Betty Rayner, of the peripatetic
Theatre of Youth, have brought another week
of intelligent entertainment to Scots Hall,
Melbourne, after which the co. will disband,
the principals going to Maoriland and after-
wards to America.
ft ft ft
There is more than artistic interest in the
announcement that Gregan McMahon will
open his new repertory season at Melbourne
t Comedy with Molnar’s “The Play’s the
Thing.” When the play was staged in Lon-
don the Lord Chancellor disagreed with the
point of view implied in the title and closed
the show.
ft * ft
Frank Neil surprised Adelaide by opening
at the Royal in a kind of sermon. Large
audiences, mostly feminine, have laughed
happily over the castigation of their Ameri-
can sisters for spending half the year in
Europe. (Their own home-desertion extends
no further than the bridge table and the
golf club.) Neil’s new and necessarily sub-
dued manner is suggestive of another and
more famous Frank; and Louise Lovely is
really pathetic when the fool-wife gets sense.
Dorothy Stanward is a valuable girl recruit,
and Marion Marcus Clarke an ideally wise
grandmother, never overacting. The rest of
the play is broadly funny, with Field Fisher
leading in the big laughs.
ft- ft *
“The Love Race,” billed as the Phar Lap
of musical plays, is doing its best to live up
to the compliment at Sydney Majesty’s. It
is a frothy item internally, but when The
Bulletin last looked in on it Bluett. Elsie
Prince, Franklyn, Leighton, Frith and
Alatliea Siddons were gagging it into quite a
passable light entertainment. The Siddons
has gone back to the legit, after a term
with the amateurs. She should be a useful
lady for filling maturish parts, especially
as she has a charming voice, which most of
the players of such parts rather lack. Elsie
Prince is due to return to Fogland at any
moment. Her part, which doesn’t give Miss
“Stood on his head and played them with
a clothes-prop.”
Prince a cliance of being the bright little
person she can be, will be filled by Bertha
Riccardo. The Firm’s other house, the Cri.,
is to remain closed for the present, but on
Saturday the Royal will be rescued once
more from the talkie sway and static. Frank
Harvey is to give the Wallacian “Calendar”
a run there.
For the rest, Sydney continues to sup-
port a greater number of light legit, shows
than it had done for many moons. “Funny
Face,” a show of capital patches of fun,
is still going strong at the St. James, where
producer Rolls has had a long run of good
entertainers since the talkies were ousted at
that address. Nat Phillips and Syd Beck
call their current offering at the Opera
House “High Kicks,” and their clients con-
tinue to pack back regularly once a week
for more of their easy-going brand of
foolery. “A Royal Routine” (“from French
farce to grand opera”) is still doing two
shows a day at the also recently-rescued
Palace. At the Savoy Doris Fitton con-
tinues her revival of “By Candle Light.”
and the Community has “Murder Next
Door,” a local job, and other items on
its current week’s bill.
The Palette,
Dora Wilson, in a “one-man” show at
the Society of Arts, surprised Adelaide,
which had known her mainly in hurnari-
vertebrse studies as a sort of second ('um-
brae Stewart. Deserting pastel, Miss Wilson
showed a variety of European scenes with
notably solid architecture and a steady high
level of w r ork. Passing over some strong
suggestions of Will Ashton influence, Adel-
aide Art Gallery bought two characteristic
and Wilsonian English countryside scenes.
Mrs. Alice Newell, whose designs and
studies from the bush have been showing at
Melb. Athenaeum, reverses the historic ordbr
in creating her decorations. The creators
of the decorative motives of the past, such
as funny little devils blowing horns on
Gothic cathedrals, did not know they were
making decorations. They thought they were
realistic artists. That was all they knew
about the human body, so their simplicity
had the merit of sincerity. Mrs. Newell has
made careful and correct studies of the native
flora, and then evolved her decorations from
them. This involves forgetting a lot of
knowledge she has acquired about it. Con-
sequently her decorations haven’t the arrest-
ing quality and the unconscious charm of
the crude drawings of the abo., who was not
a decorative artist but a very incipient
realist.
Messrs. Battarbee and Gardner, the two
virile young Australians who a few years
ago painted the face of northern
land, have been dolling up the visage of
other parts of the vast unknown hinterland,
and the results hung at the Athenaeum re-
cently moved the critics of sundry Mel-
bourne papers to discourse, in a way that
could only have been justified if the two
gentlemen were reincarnations of Constable
and Corot. But as painters Messrs. B. and
G. have all their job before them. Their
work is very much more amateur than that
of 20 Melbourne artists who have never
strayed 100 miles from the other suburbs;
and their work is amateurish largely because
they are under a complete misapprehension
as to what constitutes the problem of the
painter. The problem of the painter is an
msthetic problem, not a question of finding
new places to paint. The last is the func-
tion of the tourist-bureau artists, and they
do it better because they put bathing-girls
in their pictures.
After looking at the pictures of James E.
Flett at the Grosvenor Gallery, Sydney, and
reading some remarks with which the painter
has enlivened his catalogue the conclusions
are inescapable that Mr. Flett is very young
and that objections to his work on the score
of its being incomprehensible are welcomed
by him as the highest of compliments. Sorry
not to be able to oblige. These are very
understandable designs—the sort of thing
Norman Lindsay would have done in his
youth if'he had been Blamire Young. Flett’s
range of subjects is great; he handles color
effectively, and some of his lighting effects
smack of genius. He has tons of courage,
and apparently hasn’t yet discovered that he
has any limitations. The best work in the
show is a series of lino cuts. A self-portrait
is masterly; a decorative design featuring
jerboas is a gem. Water-colors depicting
buccaneers and haunted heaths and phan-
tasies from Poe and Shakspeare are essays
that with just a little more suavity and
sophistication and just a little better draw-
in" would be spankingly successful. The sea
pieces full of soft, glowing light, indicate,
perhaps, the path the painter ought to follow.
If he goes on developing and stays young
he’ll climb very high.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
JUST BEFORE NEXT ELECTION.
"My opponents say I an. inconsistent. They say I did no, stand up to my own plan. What is the essence of the Lang Plan? Repudiation! Now, I ask yon, what else
could I do but repudiate it?”
Labor Costs, N.S.W. and Vic.
Dear Bulletin, —The following is a com-
parison from the industrial-cost point of
view of labor in N.S.W. with labor m
Victoria. .
N.S.W. basic wage is £4 2s. 9d. for 44
hours. The cost of four hours’ labor at
Is. 10|d. is 7s. 6d. Therefore, on a4B hours’
basis the N.S.W. workmen get £4 10s. 3d.
The employer pays child endowment on the
basis of 2 per cent., which adds Is. Bd. per
week to the industrial cost of each unit
employed, making a total of £4 11s. lid.
The Victorian basic wage is £3 12s. for
48 hours.
The manufacturer in Victoria thus, pays
£1 per week less in wages for each unit em-
ployed than the manufacturer in N. S.
W ales
This, I suggest, is the. reason why there
is less unemployment in Victoria; why
N.S.W. manufacturers cannot compete with
the Victorian manufacturers, and why large
supplies of Victorian manufactured goods are
sold in N. S. Wales, whilst N. S. Wales
employees are walking the streets, —Yours,
A.C.
Lenin Curses Inflation
Dear Bulletin, —In his “Preparing for
Revolt” Lenin says a few words about in-
flation and fiduciary note issues. H'e writes:
Everyone knows that inflation is the worst form
of forced loan, that it especially aggravates the con-
dition of the workers, of the poorer classes of the
population and that it is the principal obstacle in
the way of financial recovery.
The disastrous inflation of Russian cur-
rency commenced just before the. Kerensky
regime, and by the time Lenin seized power
had gained such headway that it took him
two years to get it under control. We can
easily picture what would happen to
“moderate” inflation in Australia controlled
by Scullin, Theodore and Lazzarini —they
aren’t Lenins by any means.
The great Russian revolutionary s evi-
dence is good enough for me. —Yours truly,
Baomata.
Can We Attract Money?
Dear Bulletin, —Our position cannot be
improved by non-productive work; but our
recovery can be made more difficult by it-
Non-productive work is like the grave: .it
takes, but it does not return. If we persist
in “work for charity’s sake” we simply
drain the nation’s resources into the earth.
If we are to get out of. tlie morass, we must
concentrate on production. .
Year after year we produce raw material
the essential food of workshops and year
after year we permit it to be floated into the
tides of trade and sucked into foreign shops.
NeVer was the need of an increase m our
own products so great as it is to-day, and
never was the absence of workshops so force-
fully felt. But why should we be offended at
the'lesson? It is merely time driving home
the fact that prosperity is a thing of con-
tinuous and expanding industry.
We have, at the moment, two vital pro-
blems: (1) To create remunerative industry
to absorb our unemployed, so that they will
cease to be a burden on the State. (2) To
create something to powerfully attract
foreign money into the country. We cannot
hope for its venturing this way without an
attraction. Perhaps, if we granted, out of
relief funds, free of interest for fiye years,
half the cost of starting any industry within
12 months, we might attract both internal
and external capital. And if such a method
were adopted, and through it our unem-
ployed figures dropped to normal or approach-
ing it, within three years we would receive
such benefits that we could afford from a
national viewpoint to expunge the grant. —
Yours etc., Sand Plain.
Our Voting System
Dear Bulletin, —It is not “one man one
vote” that is to blame so much as the way
the votes are apportioned. Surely the old
method of marking out certain sections on
the map into electorates, irrespective of the
dwellers therein, their vested interests and
their relative usefulness to the country, is
very crude. One hears the complaint, “The
civil servants swing the vote; they should
not be allowed to vote at all.” Granted that
the civil service is overmanned and extra-
vagantly run; yet it would be most unfair to
deprive these citizens of a vote. But let them
have their own representatives. This would
be far better and more satisfactory for them
and fairer to the community. The same with
other occupations and industries. Enrol
the voters, not according to the section of
land they happen to live upon, but accord-
ing to their work, the industry to which
they belong, the trade or profession they are
engaged in.
Personally, I think the primary industries
should have first consideration and strongest
representation. The producers of the virgin
wealth of Australia are much the fewest in
numbers, but in common fairness, seeing
that all the rest of the people live upon
that virgin wealth, their voice should be
stronger than any other. —Yours, Yanna.
Lawyers or Accountants?
Dear B., —Australia’s present woeful con-*
dition is purely a business disease. Too
much law and too little sense! It is com-
mon knowledge that at least during the past
20 years hardly any financial plan of im-
portance in the United Kingdom has been
allowed to go far without the active assist-
ance of some prominent accountant. Why
is it that Australia cannot give a few of
these men a trial in the sphere in which
they are supposed to make their reputation?
One often hears the cry that a first-class
business man could run the country success-
fully. But so-called successful business men
generally reach the top only in one parti-
cular branch of commercial activity. On
the other hand the function of a public
accountant is to be a guide and construc-
tive adviser in any class of business.
In; my view, an ideal committee to advise
the Commonwealth Cabinet would consist
of a professor of economics, a leading lawyer,
a successful business man, a prominent
trade-union leader (not given to wearing a
red tie} and a couple of first-class practising
accountants (one of whom should be chair-
man) with achievements to their credit, such
as large reorganisation of businesses on the
rationalisation plan—tvhicli became the
vogue after the Brunner Mond interests
showed the way. There is far too great a
tendency to include public servants on advis-
ory committees. In the nature of things
such people are not out to give advice which
will detrimentally affect their own service.
If their advice is required, the committee
should have authority to call for it. —Yours,
LtTCEO NON ÜBO.
Decentralising Wool Sales
Dear B., —During the last two seasons
representation has been made on behalf of
Newcastle to the National Council of Wool-
selling Brokers for Newcastle to be recog'-
nised as a wool-selling centre and allocated
sale dates, but on each occasion it has been
refused. This suggests a spirit which should
not be tolerated by the Graziers’ Association.
In all probability another application on
behalf of Newcastle will be made at the
annual conference of the National Council
of Wool-selling Brokers shortly, and it
is to be hoped that the same consideration
which has been shown to the Buyers’ Asso-
ciation, in having the zone system intro-
duced for the convenience of its members, will
be meted out by the brokers to Newcastle. —
Yours, T. H.
Country Movements
Dear Bulletin, —You say (B. 3/6/’3l)
that “it is very necessary that we should
set up small colonies where people may at
least do a little towards feeding themselves,
while society reconstructs itself.” One of
the objects of the country movement in N. S.
Wales is to get ready for the day when, with
confidence restored, the wheels of secondary
industry are once more moving, and factories
throughout the capitals of our Common-
wealth are being re-manned. On that great
day the manufacturer will have to decide
how few, and not how many, hands he can
re-employ, in order to make up the losses
which have piled up during the many months
of factory inaction. What can our capital
cities do with the overflow of man-power?
The country will have to be organised into
prepared provinces, to receive each one’s
quota of the overflow, to provide finance to
place that quota suitably on areas to be
thrown open for the purpose, and help to
make same a reasonably primary producing
unit in our great Commonwealth.
This is the underlying principle of Country
Movements, and The Bulletin’s candid
criticism will greatly assist the universal
acceptance of their aims.—Yours etc., W. H.
Balmain.
Another Bloodsucker
Dear Bulletin, —This country will soon
have to face a struggle to save its cattle
herds. Some five years ago the buffalo-fly,
imported from Java with the water-buffalo
to the Northern Territory, was reported to
be rapidly making its way to the Queens-
land border with the mobs coming down to
that State’s railheads. The pest came
nearer each year, until at last the Queens-
land Government closed, two of the routes.
This proved ineffectual. The fly advanced
steadily into North Queensland, and is now
in at least 600 miles from the N.T. border.
Authority, both State and Federal, has
displayed the same apathy as marked the
Queensland Government in the disastrous
days when the cattle-tick commenced its
southward march over 30 years ago.
Attempts have been made by the Federal
Government to find a parasite to destroy
the fly, so far without success. The State
Government, which might have done some-
thing if it had established an area cleared
of cattle south of the advance, was afraid
to undertake a scheme which would have
met with much opposition from the cattle-
owners in the belt to be cleared, and would
have cost a lot of money in compensation.
The result has been that the fly has defi-
nitely arrived. .
Happily, the fly is not, like the tick, a
conveyor of infection. It is a bloodsucker.
But, unlike the tick, which has to depend
on its host for transport, the fly can do its
own travelling, though naturally it depends
on some blooded host for sustenance. It
may even resort to marsupials where,, cattle
are not immediately available. Dipping and
similar preventive measures are useless; only
the establishment of a wide “neutral zone
will serve. No effective destructive parasitic
agency has yet been discovered..
We have been sleeping on this job a long
time. It is a generation ago that Dr. T. L.
Bancroft, one of the pioneers in identifying
the association of malaria and filaria with
the mosquito, commented on the presence
of this fly in the N.T.; and later Henry
Tryon, one of Australia’s greatest ento-
mologists, warned the Queensland Govern-
ment and the cattlemen of the dangers
attending on the pest if it invaded - Queens-
land. No attention was paid to the warn-
ing—another illustration of Australia’s fatal
capacity for letting the damn thing slide.- —
Yours, Genturion.
The Dud Correspondence Schools
Dear B., —May we make an appeal to the
people through your widely-circulated
columns?
In pursuance of its policy of keeping
abreast of the times, Dud Correspondence
Schools, Ltd., announces an innovation in
Correspondence Courses and Coaching
CI&SS6S
Are you thick in the hide? Have you any
political relations? These are the quali-
fications necessary to become a successful
dole inspector! As unemployment grows,
so will the need for dole inspectors. Join
our special class now and take your Dole
Inspectorial Degree. It may lead to better
things. You may thence attain civic or
Parliamentary honors.
For the benefit of politicians and trades
union secretaries, for whom there is an
ever increasing demand, a course in Domain
Oratory and Mob Psychology has been
arranged under the expert tuition of Mr. S.
Crouger, ex-M.L.A. The curriculum includes
special coaching in Wire Pulling, Subter-
ranean Engineering, and the Uses of the Slid-
ing Panel. Know how to become a Safe-
seat Wangler! Others- have been successful
why not you? Get into Parliament and you
need never work again! Get the gold-pas
habit and join this class right away.
Enrol now for our new Aldermanic
Course. Learn how to get your electioneer-
ing expenses back. Do you know anything
about Contracts? We will initiate, you
into their mysteries. Competent tutors will
lecture on Obstructional Tactics, safe
places for Keeping Marked Notes, and
liow to Walk Out and Kill a Quorum. Make
sure of good roads and your
own property! Get your friends jobs. We
will Show you How! —Yours etc., on behalf
of D. C. S., Ltd., S. W. K.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
IIRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
m
CHOIC
CIGAR
e
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and .flavorsome... .and delightfully mild.
- Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW
THIS.
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should know
how to save money by making their own
family cough remedy that will prove safe
and effective for every member of the family,
from the youngest baby up to the oldest
adult. Here is the recipe, given by a leading
chemist: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls
of sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large: breakfast-cupful
of warm water; stir until dissolved, and,
when cold, pour into a large bottle. Then
add a bottle of concentrated TIEENZO (it
costs 2/- at all leading chemists and storesj,
and you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual remedies
for chest and throat ailments, which if
purchased in .single bottles would cost up to £l.
You will be astounded at the speedy way
HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest
and banishes coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough. Make it a prac-
tice to always have HEENZOin your home.*
ABORIGINALITIES
THE STERN FACE OF THE LAW.
LARI: “There’s the new R.M., dear; and he’s even more grim-looking than the last
one."
KARI: “Ah, well, such things are sent to try us, I suppose."
“Jack Point”: Johnstone came back to
the store from lunch in high glee. “I’m
just a certainty to win the Casket,” he
announced. “I was standing talking to a
bloke down at the Valley corner when all of
a sudden something settled on me hand, and
I saw it was a bee. The bloke I’m with
bustles me straight into the nearest shop and
I. bought a Gasket ticket—the ‘Busy Bee’ syn-
dicate. They reckon it’s the luckiest thing
that can happen to you.” Some of the
chaps seemed impi-essed, but not so little
Skinny Lloyd. ‘‘l’ve heard it’s lucky,” he
said, “but you’ve spoilt it all ' with
the name.” “How do you mean with the
name?” asked Johnston. “Well,” responded
Skinny, ‘you called it the ‘Busy Bee,’ didn’t
you? A bee that’d settle on you had dam’
little to do.”
“Exon”: George w’as a peppery old man at
any time, and the approach of death didn’t
sweeten his temper, lie woke from a nap
to find the parson, the doctor, the nurse and
nearly all his relations standing tear-
fully round his bed. George glared irritably
at the mournful faces. “What’s all th’ blasted
fuss about?” lie snapped. “Anyone’d think
a man was leaving th’ dam’ district !”
* * at *
“Paul C.”: MacMannimy wanted maize-
pullers, and just as he had his foot on the
step of the cream van starting for the
butter-factory two sailors, who had run
away from their ship at Newcastle, hove in
sight and asked for a job. “Ever do any
pullin’?” asked MacMannimy, who didn’t know
they were. seafarers and was thinking of
his maize. They truthfully assured him
they had .done an awful lot of it. He gave
them a job. “Now,” he .commanded, “start
in at the gate 'in that corn paddock and go
on pullin’. Put four rows in a line of heaps
about ten yards apart. I’ll be home this
afternoon, and we’ll draw in what you’ve
pulled.”. As Mac approached the paddock
on his return he was' amazed to see an
absolutely cleared space in the corner of
the field, and complimented himself on hav-
ing secured the services of two capital
workers, who not only pulled the maize but
cut and heaped up the stalks as well, though
he neither asked nor required them to do so.
As he got closer a sight met his gaze such
as he had never seen in all his farming
experience. The two nautical gentlemen
had hold of a stalk down near the ground
and were hauling on it as if its roots went
right through the earth and were riveted
on the other side. All of a sudden the
stalk came away, and the mariners rolled
over and over like disabled hedgehogs, to
the accompaniment of salt-flavored remarks
such as seamen use when angered. Mac left
the van with a yell, brandishing a new hoe
he had bought in town, and loudly and pro-
fanely uttering his opinion about their
parentage and qualifications. The mariners
adjudged this to be an unfriendly gesture,
and discreetly and swiftly merged them-
selves into the landscape.
£ $ $ *
“Eura”: One of the most unusual Maori
names perpetuated in the Dominion is that
of a small settlement near Auckland.
It is called Ihumata, one of the
few words in which anything approach-
ing _ a sibilant is heard in Maori.
While the pakeha has an irritating ten-
dency to cut the invariable final vowel in
“DOWN—AND OUT.”
Maori names, and generally mispronounces
a beautiful language, so far Ihumata (pro-
nounced Ishumata) has come through un-
scathed. The name of the “Maori Nap-
oleon,” Hongi, actually Ihongi, has fared
worse. It is now generally pronounced
minus the “I,” though Darwin in his
Beagle reminiscences always writes the
name of the great chief phonetically as
“Shongi,” as he heard it pronounced by the
Maoris of his day.
“Canal” : A happy-go-lucky chap
was Bill. He trusted to Provi-
dence far more than he should
have done, but Providence had
been kind, and he still owned a
farm (nominally), and a wife, six
kids and two mortgages (actu-
ally) ; and he had the' heartiest
laugh of anyone I know. On a
still day I have sat in my humpy
half a mile away listening to
Bill’s “Ha ! ha ! ha ! ho ! ho.! ho !”
accompanied by the children’s
shrill laughter. Bill’s laugh was
a tonic, and I often used to go
across for a yarn. One evening I
rode over and had approached to
within a couple of hundred yards
of Bill’s humpy, when Tsaw two
kookaburras alight on a tree and
prepare to deliver a dose of the
best anti-depression mixture. They
had hardly begun to tune up when
Bill’s “Ha ! ha ! ha ! ho ! ho ! ho !”
rang out, and a couple of the kids
joined in. The kookaburras turned
their heads this way and that.
Then father kookaburra looked at
mother kookaburra. Their eyes
fell. As if by mutual consent, they
flopped from the branch,. nearly
crashing in the take-off, clumsily
righted themselves and flew sadly
away. I spent a pleasant half-
hour with Bill, and passing the
tree on the way back some in-
stinct prompted me to look up.
Perched on the dead branch wei’e
father and mother kookaburra and
four baby kookaburras. They had
brought the youngsters back to
take a lesson.
“Cygnis”: “Irawunni’s” reference to an
amenable abo. leper (B. 29/4/’3l) will recall
to old Westralians the case of a vegetable
John, of South Perth, who in the late
’eighties caused a sensation and the issue of
a libel writ for £5OOO against the now de-
funct “Morning Herald.” The newspaper
printed a letter which stated that a Chinese
vegetable hawker was badly afflicted with
leprosy. This annoyed the Chinese com-
munity; hence the issue of the writ. The
writer of the letter could not be found, nor
could the leper, though it was established
that the latter existed. For fully 12 months
the newspaper wag unable to discover his
hiding-place. Five days before the day of the
trial it was reported that the leper had been
seen in the bush near Spencer’s Brook, and
there he was discovered by Lovekin, M.L.C.,
then a member of the “Herald” staff, hiding
in a hole. The poor devil was in the most ad-
vanced stage, nearly dropping to bits. He
wag deported to Singapore at a cost of
£4OO. The “Herald” won the libel case,
but wasn’t able to collect costs.
*** ' *
“Koolonga”: The committee of the Onka-
parooka Angling Club has asked Hans Breit-
mann for his resignation. This happened
immediately after Hans had told of his most
reeent exploit.- “When I vos fishing off
der endt of der. dock last Sunday I vent to
sleep,” he told us. “I -dunno how lqng I
sleeped, but when I avoke up der line it
vos tvitching about- like anydings’.' So 1
grabs me der line and hauls it in,, and vot
do you tink dere vos? ’A teeny-veeny fish
like dot !”• - And he measured half an inch
on his thumb. .’ ‘
**ri> • , * ■
“Mulga Mick”: Talking of baronets who
have not flaunted their titles -in ' Australia,
when I was coming in from the Marranboy
tinfiehl (N.T.) in 1917 I met a long-legged
specimen of Territory stockman in charge
of a mob of fats from one of Vestey’s
stations, en' route for the railhead at
the Katherine. Judging by his. seat in the
saddle and the way he used the . stockwhip
he’d spent his life at the game, but I heard
afterwards' that, though he was known as
“Alec 1 the Drover,” his rightful "title was Sir
Alexander Thomas Cockburn-Campbell, Bart.
His dad, from whom he inherited the title,
was once upon a time President of the WTest-
ralian Leg. Council. <
% , sji sjs *
“Mindic”: Salting goldmines, a fine old art
which may be revived in Australia if gold
grows much dearer, calls for a lot more skill
than is necessary in pickling a pig’s foot.
Crudely done the show is given away imme-
diately the man who knows is shown the
specimen stuff. Salted mines have been sold
to the good profit of the vendors, but in these
cases the insertion of the metal has been
deftly carried out. An attempt to hypothe-
cate a small N. S. Wales strike failed
rather dismally recently when an alleged
prospector submitted a small phial full of
specks said to have come from reef sheddings.
Under the magnifying glass some of these
showed traces of trade-marks and jewellers’
symbols.
THE LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Now this ’ere courtin’ game,” said Clem,
“is fine in many ways.
For long, slow walks on moonlit nights I’ve
nothin’ else but praise.
An’ when the family’s gone to bed—beside
the kitchen fire,
Just ’er art’ me alone, what more could any
man desire ?
That part’s all right, but now, you see, the
girl ’as gone away,
An’ ’ore’s a note she wrote to me; it just
arrived to-day.
She’s pretty good at writin’, too, but, tell
me, where’s the sense
In filling ’alf a dozen lines with bits of
dogleg fence?
"I never ’ad a girl before, an’ so you’ll
understand
Love-letters never worried 'me till this one
came to ’and,
An’ there’s a thing or two, of course, that
I’m not used to yet.
For instance, bn the second page, she reckons
I’m a pet.
If any bloke ’ad called me that I’d tear
’im into ’alves:
It makes me think of orphan lambs, or sickly
poddy calves. •
Still, seein’ who it is that writes, oh, well,
she can’t offend.
But what’s them rows of cross affairs she’s
scribbled at the end? * •
“I’m ’anged if I can make it out. I've racked
me brains in vain.
It’s zackly like an old-time dogleg fence, but
then again
It might be shorthand that I’ve ’card reporter
fellers use;
I’m ’alf inclined to chat the bloke who prints
the ‘Woopville News.’ .
But ’e might laugh or spread it round, an’
anyway ifs wrong
To show a private thing like that to all who
blow along.
I’m good at readin’ cattle-brands, but dashed
if I can gauge
The meanin’ of that flamin’ fence across the
final page.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


More
Gallons
per mile
of wind
EE
One hundred to 150 miles of wind may operate
on the wheel of a windmill in a day. That
windmill which lifts most water in each mile
of wind is most efficient.
MEN. WHO HAVE REPLACED
OTHER MAKES OF MILLS BY THE
MODERN SKY HAVE DEFINITELY
PROVED IN EVERY CASE THAT
THE SKY GIVES MORE WATER.
And after all that is the logical result of the
•Sky Windmill Co.’s steady determination. to
build machines which for fineness of mechanical
construction and pumping power cannot be
bettered, no matter what you pay —yet Sky
machines cost. you no more.
Catalogue free on■ request.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE ORDERS FREIGHT FREE.
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people’s own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £1
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
<£bminoitwealtl) Savinas lank of Australia
C Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
TO MEET THE TIMES
•ft
U
Tiental
Melbourne Jr Premier ttotet
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per dav,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
TttEUi IE UAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
“C. Coral”: Mary, the
colored lady who assists in the
house, picked up ■ a fashion
catalogue, and wanted a new
hat. The model, she chose ran
to ten guineas, but she was
persuaded to fix her on
something less expensive: “1 11
give you two shillings every
week,” said the.boss, “and you
: put him along tobacco-tin;
then when you catch ten bob
we send some letter along,
Brisbane and’ catch that num-
ber-one hat.” Mary was satis-.
fled, and duly collected three
: instalments." Then ofie day a
friend whoVl bought a three-
guinea torch and didn’t want
it asked the boss to take a
two-bob ticket in a raffle.
“Haven’t got any cash in the
place,” said the boss. “Never
mind. I’ll borrow . two bob
from Mary’s box and ; put it
back later.” When Mary came
in next morning the boss
thought a tornado had struck
the place. .She flourished two
bright florins, -i. “Where that
’nother tcliilling belong me?
You been take him—you
stealem that one, and all time
I think you proper good man!
Where that one he stop ? You
give ’im quick !” The harassed
boss produced a coin and
handed it over: “There you
are, Mary. I only been borrow
that one, now I pay him back.”
Mary : looked indignantly at
the money, smelt it and turned
it over, then flung it down.
“This one not same tcliilling I
got first , time. You give me '
same, one.” All the boss’s ex-
planations were unavailing.
Mary-flounced off and went, the rounds of
the place until she tracked down the coin in
the hands of the raffle-conductor. Then she
triumphantly replaced it in the tin, while a.
dazed boss vowed he’d never again interfere
with Mary’s safe deposit.
* -!! * *
“Nakli.”: Many parts of Victoria had gos-
samer showers the other Sunday. Farmers
woke up to find their fields, hedgerows, fences
and granaries covered as if by hoar-frost with
the delicate streamers of the small brown
spider which is responsible for the pheno-
menon. When the sun came up the country
was netted in a web of gold which covered
even the telegraph-poles. The fecundity of
Nature can be imagined from the fact that
reports came from places 20 miles apart.
*!* ij« Sjt
“Nakhoda”: According to a cable, the
Serbian State executioner, clad in a top-
hat and white gloves, executed a criminal
and flung his gloves at the feet of the corpse,
saying “George Zhivaljevitch, I am not
responsible for thy
death.” There is a
curious analogy here
between European
and Asiatic thought.
When a Dutchman
sets traps for tigers
in Sumatra, the vil-
lagers go to the trap
and explain to the
victim that the snare
was not set by them
nor with their con-
sent. When a native
hunter brings down
a wild deer he points
out to the body that
it was not he but the
bullet which did the
fell deed. I had a
shikari in Java who
kept this statement
written on little
pieces of paner in his
pocket, and he always
took one out and
solemnly burnt it
after a kill. The
motive was to avert
the vengeance of the
spirit of the dead
beast. The Serbian
executioner is pro-
bably sleeping
soundly now under
the comfortable, con-
viction that the
spirit of George Z,
will blame the 5 gloves
instead of the owner’s
hand s. Primitive
people always assume
that the spirits are
fools.
“Uramoa”: The belief that the best means
of keeping her memory green among her
compatriots was to connect it w r ith the joy of
eating prompted a Maori chicftainess to com-
mission them to erect a wharckai (large
dining-hall) at Whakatane to her memory.
At a hui in connection with the opening of
the memorial the other day some 1400 Maoris
gathered to let out their belts. There were
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
DAD (to new hand who is trying to yard the bull): “What the ’ell are yer doin’?"
NEW HAND: “Doing? Why. didn’t yer tell me to bring in a mash for the cows?”
also 150 pakeha guests. When all
was over and stock was taken of the
vanished provender, it was found that
there had been consumed four bullocks, 42
pigs, five tons of potatoes, five tons of
kumeras, 10 lorry-loads of water-melons, two
lorry-loads of mussels, two lorry-loads of
pipis, 500 large loaves of bread and an
agglomeration of butter, jam, cakes, biscuits
and fruit too numerous to mention. The
chieftaincss’s memory will live for evermore.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: ’Che Usop, the witch-doctor,
sat up on his sleeping-mat and surveyed his
companions. His eye glided over the forms
of his married son and his daughter-in-law
occupying the sleeping-mat adjacent. Then
it rested for a moment on a tangle of bare
arms, legs and fat stomachs representing his
three grandchildren. Finally it came to rest
on his wife’s face lying in a mop of grey
hair alongside him. ’Che _ TJsop’s _ nose
wrinkled with disgust. Rising cautiously
to his feet he lifted up a small box and put
it . under his arm. He listened for a while
to the snoring around him, and then softly
crept on to the verandah. The sea lay like
■ lead under the moon, between the houses.
Occasionally the lead heaved or shot up : a
shower of drops like molten metal. A long
line of mangrove pods slowly glided along
the middle of the, main street like the floats
of fishing-lines. At the end of the street
across the flat waters of the strait the main-
land of Borneo drew a hard line along the
horizon. ’Che Usop loosened the sarong he
was wearing and let it drop over his ankles.
For a moment he stood like a statue carved
in some hard dark wood by an artist with
a passion for anatomical detail, his skin,
dry, salted and incredibly wrinkled, stretched
tight over a frame that was all bone, muscle
and sinew. , He opened the box and drew
out of it a sarong of a curious pattern.
Deftly securing it. at the waist by turning
the hem over, he crept down the house-ladder
and, placing the' box carefully in the stern
sheets, stepped into his dug-out. Unfasten-
ing the' painter, he let the boat drift with
the:tide until it cleared the villaee. Then
he-started paddling swiftly and silently , to-
wards the south headland. Half an hour
later he drew into a tiny bay fringed with
great trees and screwpines. He dragged
the dug-out into the shadow of a giant
casuarina, and, taking out the box, started
laying out'its contents. .First he spread out
on the sand a'small white cloth. In the
centre of it he placed a bowl, into wdiich he
emptied a few grains, of saffron-stained rice.
At each corner of the cloth he placed an-
other little pile of rice, a sweet potato, a
banana and some scraps of betel-nut. Be-
side the bowl he placed half a cocoanut of
fresh water obtained from a spring which
emerged from the roots of the tree. Then he
completed the repast by laying on the cloth
a native cigarette and a box of matches.
After checking over this arrangement he
remained in' silent meditation for several
minutes. Then he squatted on the ground
and began rocking his body to and fro to
the accompaniment of a thin chanting.
After ten minutes of this he suddenly bent
forward, knotted the four corners of the
cloth together, and, leaping up, swung the
bundle round his head and flung it as far
as he could into the ocean. After the echoes
of the splash had died away he stood watch-
ing the ripples spreading under the moon-
light until all was still again. Then lie
crept to the water’s edge and lay down with
his head seaward. Grasping the lower hem
of his sarong with liis toes, he proceeded
slowly to draw the upper hem upwards until
it covered him completely. For a long time
the sarong remained inert. Then it began
to undulate slowly. The movement became
more rapid and energetic, a tail suddenly
shot out from the landward end. a head
appeared at the other, and a full-grown
crocodile emerged from the garment and
rushed into the water. ’Che Usop returned
the following evening to learn that his wife
had been taken, presumably by a crocodile,
while bathing. ’Che Usop was overcome
with grief, but. recovered sufficiently three
weeks later to espouse the young and pretty
Inn, daughter of Amit, the bullock-driver.
* * * *
“Old Timer” : The reported new strike of
gold, near Laverton (W.A.) recalls the tragic
history of the pioneers of the camp named
after Dr. Laver. The little cemetery set
aside for prospectors was opened by the
burial of a man killed in a shanty brawl.
This sort of set the main. The first 20 graves
dug in the selection were tenanted by men
who had died violent deaths. Some were
killed in accidents at the mines, some in
drunken fights, one was shot in a brush with
the police, three were killed in conflict with
marauding abos., and a few took the short
route to' the undiscovered country by means
of a plug of dynamite exploded in the mouth.
* * * *
“Petrel”: How far into the mists of anti-
quity do the roots of the abo. race run? In
the N.T. remain traces of ancient culture in
geometrically - exact .pyramids and mounds.
iPresent-day Binghi can tell nothing about
these. He asserts they “grew there.” but
as in these erections are rocks quite foreign
to the locality, it is evident the material has
been carried many miles, perhaps in connec-
tion with some religious or ritualistic cere-
monial of a Malayan or other Oriental race
which may have inhabited the North thou-
sands of. years ago.
“L. Dorado”: . Dr.\ Basedow, who lias
trapesed over a good deal of Centralia in the
hunt for silver-lead, has emerged from the
saltbush with a story of an Aladdin’s Cave
in that- section. According to legend, the
doctor says, there is a tunnel that has been
used by generations of blacks as a store-
house for enormous quantities of gold picked
up on the surface. As the Centralian abo.
knows as little about metals and their values
as he does of mensuration the yarn doesn’t
sound very convincing, but Australia is the
oldest of all continents and we don’t know
all its secrets yet. Possibly prehistoric
Binghi used the cache as an ammunition
dump.
BULLSBROOK BILL'S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Too right,” said Bullsbrook Bill, “I’ve known
some queer old hatters’ spare me days, ’
Who’d spend what, leisure time they had.from
chasin’ gold ■ in stranger ways.
Take Paynesville Pete for, one—there were
no crossword puzzles then, like now,
An’ if there’d been he. never saw a blinkin’
paper anyhow.
“Those old-time birds who hunted for the
Grail until, their eyes grew, dim,
Or sought for the philosopher’s stone, must
have been a bit like him.
The puzzle that he wrestled with for half a
lifetime had him beat,
But, luckier than them, he solved his riddle
in the end, did Pete.
“You know those roundish matchboxes —
perhaps; they’re not so often found
As once—the dinguses that have a sort of
tartan pattern round?
To find a bottom and a top on which the
lines and colors 'click
’S a game of patl.ence many a man has
played, until he’s tired and sick. '
“I’ve known’ some try for weeks and months,
with loans from every comrade’s store,
But Paynesville Pete/ , snapped •- matchbox
halves-\tbgether thirty'years an’ more.
In summer eves and ,winter nights alike with
•knitted brows he’d sit
Within his tent or by /the” fire and struggle
for the Perfect Fit.
“His camps w ere littered, with his ‘ ‘cards’;
he’d played his solo near and far.
Whenever daily toil was done, from Parker’s
Range to Marble Bar.
In his gnarled hands a hundred - times the
lines and colors almost met. *
But never quite. ‘Ah, well.’ he’d mutter
undeterred, ‘l’ll do it yet.’
“I’ll s,ay none ever wrought so long to get
those matchbox halves to match.
There came a day at last, we missed the
oldest battler on the Patch.
ITis battered shaker stood unused, and so
at knock-off time we went,
Half-fearin’ there was something wrong, to
/see if Pete was in his tent.
“Upon his rough bag-bunk he lay, serene
and passive, where he’d died,
With halves of empty matchboxes, whole
grosses of them, by his side.
A smile of radiant content was on his face.
Ilis hands held fast
The product of his weary quest—he’d struck
the Perfect Fit at last.
“Some reckoned that he died of joy—but,
then, that never kills, they say—
An’ others said old Pete had nothing left to
live for, anyway.
That night we buried him beneath the kurra-
jong upon the hill,
The secret that he’d sought so long safe in
his hand,” said Bullsbrook Bill.
TAINTED EVIDENCE.
CONSTABLE O'BROWN : “Phwat for did ye wanter steal the malm’s
lobster? Ye might have known the long arrum of the
'law wid get ye—though sure it’s me nose is Lellin’ me
the arrum could at this momint be ha’f a mile longer wid
great advantage.”
“An’ when they ask him what he did on
earth to win to Heaven’s bliss
I’ll back old Pete to open up his fist and
tell St. Peter ‘This.’
Though there were fossickers I’ve met who
filled their shammies to the brim
I never knew a bloke to turn that matchbox
trick exceptin’ him.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Patents.
IMPROVED PROCESS OF HEAT-
TREATING HYDROCARBON OILS.
'T'HE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 13623/28 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
PNEUMATIC-TREADED VEHICLE
WHEELS.
’T'HE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 23778/25 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Patents.
WEIGHT INDICATOR FOR SCALES.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11035/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights‘in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the .. invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN REFRIGERATING
DEVICES.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 13621/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
fort the granting of a license to make,
use- and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth' of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Patents.
DEVICE FOR USE IN THE MANUFAC-
TURE OF FELT, BATTING AND THE
LIKE.
'T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13079/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
CONTAINERS, AND SEALING MEANS
THEREFOR.
’T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7940/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of‘Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Legal Notice,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 172 of 1931.
Between CAROLINA MAUD McGLASHAN Petitioner
And GEORGE SCOTT McGLASHAN Respondent.
To GEORGE SCOTT McGLASHAN late of Tas-
mania.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Carolina Maud
McGlashan has commenced a suit against you in
this honorable Court and has applied for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
seventh day of August one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit he heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may he had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitor or his Sydney
agents free of charge.
Dated this First day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
‘ f l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. J. CUNEO,
Solicitor , for the Petitioner,
Dean Street, Albury.
Whose Town Agents are Taylor & Kearney,
Solicitors, 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
Brief summary:—
He sits for Auburn and stands for anything.
¥ ¥
THE SOU PER.
“When an armed man ‘held up’ a grocer’s shop
in South Melbourne, the woman in charge threw a
tin of soup at him.”— “Herald.”
Small icondei' that she should prevail,
And her opponent swiftly stonker;
When ordinary methods fail,
This Melbourne woman soups to conquer!
P.
¥ ¥
“There is a wonderful fraternity amongst street-
sweepers. ’ ’ — “Sun”
Besom pals, so to speak.
¥ ¥
“There was a disgraceful niggardliness in regard
to tools on the job, which caused waste of the work-
men’s time.”— “Sun.”
A man had to idle after he had passed
the allotted spanner, so to speak.
¥ ¥
PROSPECTORS’ HANDBOOK.
A\few notes for the benefit of those desirous
of exploiting our vast natural resources.
Gold.—A legendary mineral, at one time
found in bank-formations throughout the
country, and in smaller pocket-deposits
PROOF STILL WANTING.
“I beg your pardon, Madam — -I simply mistook you for
someone else. I hope I know how to treat a lady.”
“Ho, do yah? Well, I haven’t tasted it.”
amongst the citizens. Now found only in
the back teeth of movie magnates. Yellow
streaks discovered in several politicians have
failed to yield any of the metal. *
Tin.—Almost as scarce. Found thinly dis-
tributed over city areas round about 5.30
p.m. on Fridays, but it swiftly vanishes into
pubs and the coffers of t.-p. firms, any re-
maining on the following afternoon becoming
merged with bookmakers’ bank accounts,
which have a strong attraction for it.
Lead. —The most likely place to search for
this metal is in the pockets of people who
are about to jump into harbors. Small
deposits are also to be found in the shot-
guns into whose barrels prominent insolvents
peer prior to pulling the trigger.
Marble. —Large quarries may be found at
Canberra, or in fact anywhere in the vicinity
of a legislature. Select the nearest politician’s
collar and run a line due north for six
inches, and you’ll be in the thick of it.
B.
¥
Advocates of super-taxation are mostly
men without principle.
GRAINS OF COMFORT.
No more struggling into that ill-fitting
dinner-suit. It’s in pawn.
None of the boredom of sitting out those
vulgar talkies. Can’t afford ’em.
No more instalments to pay on the pianola.
They took it away last month.
No worrying about whether the alarm-
clock will fail to go off. I’ve lost my job.
No income-tax to pay next year. No
income.
H. P.
“Sometimes the buns sold in these shops are
more than a week old.”— Shop-inspector’s report.
Personally, we prefer currant buns.
MOSCOW WANDERERS V. SURRY
HILLS HORNETS.
“A special meeting will consider the proposed visit
of a Russian Soccer team.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Prior to the match the visitors were pre-
sented to Citizen Garden, after which they
moaned their war-cry, “The
Red Flag,” to the strains of
a blood-red harmonium.
Play had not long been in
progress when the referee
disqualified the centre-for-
ward. The backs struck, and
demanded more lemons at
half-time and shorter hours
of play. When the Court’s
decision —twice as many
lemons and half as much play
—was announced the players
filed on to the field once more,
and the Hornets scored a goal.
The overseas skipper claimed
that under the Nitcliki-Lenin
agreement it was only half a
goal; and on the referee dis-
senting declared him black. A
procession was at once organ-
ised, and a stop-play meeting
followed, at Which all goal-
posts, footballs, playing-
fields, grandstands, spectators,
admittance-gates, turnstiles,
touchlines and players were
declared black. At the Trades
Hall, later, the right-wingers
of the Surry Hills side were
expelled from the Inter-
national Soccer Union for not
being left-wingers, and an
ultimatum was issued that no
side, is to play a right wing
against the Wanderers for the
rest of the tour.
S. Esq.
¥ ¥
THE CONVERT.
The young man who had
braced himself for the fatal
leap over the Gap turned with
a gesture of impatience at
the sound of a hoarse warn-
ing behind him.
“Don’t do it youngster,”
was the earnest advice of a
stout stranger.
“I’m ruined.”
“Now, now,” said the other
persuasively. “Come over
here and let’s talk it over.
Life isn’t so bad.”
And so for a quarter of an hour the pair
quietly, rationally, discussed the Lang Gov-
eminent and the trials and tribulations of
N-S.W. generally. Then they walked arm-
in-arm to the cliffside and went over together,
\y
# *
* rom a local paper:
Liiidfield Preparatory School, run on the principals
of the Kindergarten Training College.
It looks like a case for the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Principals.
“Capital punishment is to be officially abolished
in N.S.W.” — Attorney-General Lysaght.
Unemployment is another matter about
which his Government doesn’t seem to give a
hang.
¥ ¥
“The proposal that A 1 Capone should appear on
the screen has fallen through.”— “Sun.”
Afraid of being shot, evidently.
“We are sick of Mr. Lang’s promises.”—Unem-
ployed Union spokesman.
They’re fed up because they are not fed up.
¥ ¥
THE O’COHEN PLAN.
Briefly, the O’Cohen Plan aims at credit
for all. Why shouldn’t your lOU be as good
as Jack Lang’s? Under the O’Cohen Plan
it will be better, for by this epoch-making
economic device every A.L.P. member’s pin.
will be legal tender provided it is endorsed
by two bona-fide bankrupts. So much for
the Fiduciary side of the Plan.
As for ready .money, it will be eqvu .
divided among the members of the O L
party, but will be legal tender only on .*;
courses and in licensed two-up sen o. •
Except for a trifling entrance tee ot •
(English florins preferred) money is elimi-
nated by the O’Cohen Plan. A few.?™
overseas payments, such as Albie .4 JIS ‘
return fare, per cargo-ship, will be paid o
the basis of the Russian rouble.
There are no complications m the Y ian.
Join to-day. Subscriptions may be left with
any licensed barmaid, who will be authorised
to give you a receipt and a handsome signed
photograph of your favorite brewer as a
memento. „■
Angus O Cohen.
¥ ¥
testimonials.
Dear Mr. Lang,—Allow me to congratulate
you on your splendid doles. Since using
same I have doubled my income. I have
tried many ways of
making easy money,
including standing for
Parliament, but your
famous doles beat the
lot. Since first trying
your doles I have
used no other, —Yours
etc. “Six-Dole” Sam
To the leaders ot
the A.F.A., A.L.A.,
etc.
Dear Sirs,—A year
ago we were threat-
ened with bankruptcy.
To-day, thanks to
y o u r magnificent
organisations, we are
preparing to pay a 20
per cent, divvy. We
have just introduced
a new line in badges
for display on boot-
laces, and will be
glad to quote prices for same on application.
Awaiting your further favors. —Yours faith-
fully, Rook and Grabbem, Badge-makers.
P.S. —Long Live the Depresh !
Dear Andy,—Thanks a thousand times
for your Law Reform Bill. It’s a winner
all the way, old boy. In the last few weeks
I've placed 21 articles praising the bill and
49 condemning it, thus roping in more pub-
licity than I could get in a similar period
from all the press girls and gossip-writers
put together.—Yours gratefully, Horace
Limelight-Chaser, K.C.
S.E.
¥ ¥
The red hen cackled loud and long;
Her music was elated.
No egg caused her triumphant song:
She had repudiated.
¥ ■ '¥
“Mr. Gitz Rice, who wrote ‘Mademoiselle from
Armentieres',’ says that he didn’t make a cent out of
the song.”— Cable.
As a matter of fact, many a composer
never even gitz rice.
SURELY THE RIGHT SHOP.
“I want a dog-chain!”
“I think you’d do better at a hardware
store.”
“Ah, but thish is for a liV watchdog!”
“Recently Mr. Scullin has shown many flashes of
bad temper.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Yet it seems to be impossible to put him
out.
TRI-VO-LET.
A writer of tripe
On the typewriter, I
Try to type
My tripe right,
According to rite
Without blemish or lie..
A lighter of type,
Or a triper—too right,
A type-writing tripe-writer I.
P. M. H'.
COROLLARY.
“Petitioner said he met his wife through a matri-
monial agency.... She was very dictatorial. ‘She
made life a hell,’ he said.” — Divorce-court report.
He did not prise the blessina that
Is single bliss till he’d undone it;
He met her with a “view to mat.,”
And then he found himself upon it.
PERCY P.
THE THINGS I DO NOT WANT.
There are a lot of things I want that
Fate, unkind, denies to me; I cast a balance
in my mind, and I can still contented be,
reviewing all the odds and ends I do not
THE RISKS OF THE BUSINESS.
“But a pound’s a bit stiff for a night’s
garaging—I shall come for it in the
morning!”
“Ah, that’s just it —will yer cornel”
want, and would just hate, if they were
piled pell-mell on me by some malignant
stroke of Fate.
I do not want a herd of cows —they
wouldn’t fit into my flat; a purple Pom to
dog my steps, or half a million things like
that—an elephant (black, grey or white)
to carry me to work each day, or ribboned
lambkins on my bed to give, me pleasure in
their play. I do not crave for tiger-snakes
to be companions by my fire; a lion is
another pet I certainly do not desire.
I do not want a yellow suit with green
and purple stripes ablaze, to do the Block in
crimson socks, reflecting the sun’s setting
rajrs, my trousers tucked up to my knees to
show jazz-garters richly frilled —all wanton
visions such as these my sober soul have
never thrilled. In fact, for the one suit I
want (and for the present have to wait)
there are a thousand about which I loathe
to even speculate.
The Fattest Girl on Earth I do not want
by any means to wed; the Queen of Carribee
can put no thoughts of passion
in my head. The Bearded
Lady I eschew; I do not want
the divorcee whose Garbish
smile gleams from the screen —
the missus is enough for me.
Of all the girls that throng this
globe (with those who will and
those who won’t) there may be
scores I want to kiss, but there
are millions that I don’t.
I don’t want hominy for
lunch or ice-cream as a break-
fast food, and even caviare
itself has got to get me in my
mood. Though. what I eat is
not much chop I do not crave
for pickled frogs, and were I
offered curried ants I’d cast the
dainty to the dogs.
Black eyes, green centipedes
and gout, to pay five thousand
income tax, pin-cushion chairs,
and books by Dell, and glowing
flowers done in wax—a million
trifles I can name (when
thoughts of things I’m wanting
haunt) to make a credit-balance
of the articles I do not want!
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


m
it as a
C.O.R British keeps your engine always in tune —makes it as fit as a fiddle.
For the added power, and speed, and smoothness, which the C.O.R user knows,
come from an entirely new process of refining—a triumph of British skill.
Fill up with C.O.R and learn real engine fitness.
EM P/ftp
AN
O*
in
{Hdu
Ilk Y
C.1./4 'B6/81
BRI T I S H
' V
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.) , . • . . 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Walt'si DALGETY & CO. LTD.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Africa’s first air mail-liner cast up at
Croydon with its mails and passengers, after
a flight of 5114 miles covered in nine days.
The starting-point is Mwanza, on Lake
Victoria Nyanza, whence a flying-boat covers
the stage to Khartoum. There a change is
made into a land ’plane, and another amphi-
bian is utilised to cover the stretch across
the Mediterranean from Cairo to Athens,
where a land ’plane is taken for the final
lap to England. The time taken by the mails
is 23 days faster than is possible by
surface transport, and the linking up of
Capetown with Mwanza, which is to be the
next stage, will bring the Afrikander within
a fortnight of London.
“Warepa”: Australia may have better-
tearooms than England (B. 13/5/’3l), but
M.L.’s best are ahead of either’s. Ask bag-
men or actors. As far away as India I have
heard superlatives used about M.L.’s tearooms
on the score of quality, variety of fare, cost,
service and restful color-schemes —every-
thing, in fact, but size. Christchurch and
Auckland can both show tea-dispensaries
where the thick gurgling cream is in itself a
thing to be remembered.
“Solomon Smith” (Dunedin) : I think The
B. (6/5/’3l) is wrong in saying (“The
Maoriland Way”) that we are facing our
troubles without squealing. There is so
much talk about depression that even those
who can afford to spend have buttoned up
their pockets tightly. Too much talk about
the need for economy is as bad as too little,
especially in a country like ours, which is
as sensitive as a gold scale. The wages and
salaries cuts here should be speedily supple-
mented by a reduction in interest and rents,
the wages paid to the unemployed spent
on reproductive works, the unemployment
levy increased and enough paid to enable the
relief workers to pay their way. This slump
has made it painfully evident that, unless
the crowd is comfortably situated and earn-
ing good money, those above them cannot
have the prosperity to which they have
become accustomed.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: It is bad enough,
these thin times, to know that the farmers
of Maoriland buy our sugar at 12s. Gd. a
bag while ours have to pqy 28s. 3d. for the
same quality ; that the almond-eyed grocers
of Hong Kong are selling our first-grade
butter for ninepence a pound while we have
to pay Is. 9d. for second-grade; and that a
pound of Australian rice which costs five-
pence here is given away for three half-
pence in Canada. I can stand all that and
even accept the assurance of our politicians
that it all helps to keep up our standard
of living; I can settle my boot (already re-
soled three times) on the footrail and grasp
my pot and turn my mind to other things.
But it maddens me to learn, as J learnt
from my favorite barman the other day, that
our sausage and frankfurt envelopes are of
such a superior quality that they are con-
sidered too good for us and are all exported
to U.S.A., while we have to drive our teeth
through inferior sheep and pig intestines
imported from China and Japan. As a
counter-lunch connoisseur of considerable
standing, I ask, whaffor’?
“Gelt”: The slump has struck Buka (New
Guinea). Black Brother knows little of world
depression ; he believes the traders have con-
spired against him, and are endeavoring to
get his produce at a lower rate for their own
benefit. As a result he is not making copra,
but is allowing his eocoanuts to mature on
the ground as they fall, thus creating excellent
breeding-grounds for pests. He has planted
new areas of native tobacco, so the shortage
of the trade article is not felt. In 1928-
29 there was a decrease of 4850 tons of copra
shipped from the. Mandated Territory as
compared with the previous year, and the fol-
lowing period will show considerably less.
A decrease in the Administration’s revenue
and the financial embarrassment of many
a trader are among the results.
“Isharagi”: The practice of stocking the
wardroom mess of a British warship with
liquor, tobacco, etc., free of excise duty (B.
27/5/’3l) would be impossible in the Aus-
tralian Navy. All stores consumed in port
or in home waters are dutiable. Before
and after a cruise a declared “stores list,”
supplied by a responsible officer of the ship,
is. checked against the goods by a Customs
officer, and duty (Customs or excise) must
be paid on all unconsumed stores on the
ship’s return. I always had an idea that the
Australian Customs Act is based on the Eng-
lish one. but if the method of obtaining
stores described by “X.N.0.” is legal, the
British naval officer is lucky.
“Gelt”: I can bear out “Feng-Shui’s”
remarks (B. 22/4/’3l) about the morals of
the South Sea Islanders so far as New
Guinea is concerned. Twenty years ago
there were no domestic triangles, for the
simple reason that anyone trying to form
one was immediately done away with, accord-
ing to the native code. Latterly, since the
natives have been taught that their sins
may be forgiven, this high standard of
morality is no more; in Rabaul the number
of sex crimes is appalling. White women
are far safer on isolated plantations than
they are in the heart of Rabaul, despite the
vigilance of the police. Probably moving-
picture manufacturers have the erroneous
idea that because Island women wear little
clothing their morals are in the same ratio.
Not at all. The woman, attired in nothing
but a few dried leaves lives a far more moral
life than her more civilised sister wearing a
lava-lava and a blouse.
Camilla Wedgwood, the clever English girl
who was well known in Sydney Uni. and
Women’s Club circles, drops a line.to say that
she lately went on a flying visit up to Becliu-
analand to spend a week in a native town and
do a little elementary field-work. It was ab-
sorbingly interesting, and, although she spoke
only about three words of the language, she
managed to pick up quite a fair amount
about the life of the people. The town
contained about 12,000 natives and 25
whites (including children), the whites being
traders and missionaries, along with a school-
master, a doctor and a stationmaster. The
undisputed head was the chief —or rather
ex-regent—a man of considerable personality,
in character somewhat of a combination of
a prosperous French merchant and Musso-
lini. He spoke perfect English, and his book-
shelves contained translations of the Odyssey
and the Iliad, the essays of Bacon and
Emerson, and volumes on law and ele-
mentary mathematics. The most übiquitous
object in the village was the petrol-tin, which
was used for almost every conceivable pur-
pose, from water-vessel to musical instru-
ment (a kind of banjo), and side by side
with it you found such primitive things as
a musical bow made from a piece of bamboo
or a rounded bit of stone used for polish-
ing pottery.
“Bully”: Evei’yone who saw the Indian
Army hockey-players in Australia some
years ago will be glad to hear that the world’s
champions will probably play through Aus-
tralia and Maoriland on their way to the
Los Angeles Olympiad next year. The team
will consist of 19 players and officials, the
former including that marvellous stick
artist Dhian Chand, whose ability to goal
from the most difficult positions flabber-
gasted Australian and M.L.-sides during his
last visit.
“Gelt”: Tahan was possessed of a big pig.
It was the biggest pig on the island and
the envy of all his fellow Bukas, Several
feasts had come and gone, yet Tahan refused
to kill the mountain of pork. A bush spirit
ceremony was arranged by the envious, and
the huge stick, used for carrying trussed
pigs, was thrust through the doorway of
Tahan’s house one night as a sign from the
spirit that Tahan must provide a pig for the
feast. Tahan refused. He was already an
old man, he declared ; what mattered it then
if the spirit did kill him for disobeying the
edict? The feast was held. The pig was
killed and eaten, and the owner was not
present to enjoy the greasy morsels. When
he discovered his loss he died, and so the
spirit proved his omnipotence.
“Samurai” : A few months ago C. H. Alison,
the Oxford golf blue, went out to Japan on
a special mission to lay out a new course
for the Tokio Golf Club. This is a very
swank show, and the local enthusiasts have
raised 100,000 quids—not yen—for the re-
construction. The entrance fee for members
is a mere £2OO. The annual subscription is
£5O, and members are charged a green fee
of three bob for each game. I wonder how
“Bloggs” would fancy this last item.
“Amateur Pro.”: Reference has been fre-
quently made to the amateurism of the aver-
age top-notch tennis-player. An American
journal has just been commenting on the
activities of one of the best of the American
younger players. He is not a wealthy man,
yet since January, 1930, he was playing tour-
nament tennis, on covered courts and in the
open, throughout the States and in the Argen-
tine and Chile up to the end of the follow-
ing December. He received free board . and
lodging, travelling expenses, and the deuce
knows what else under the lap. Yet under
American rules he ranks as an amateur,
though there can be no possible doubt he
is nothing of the sort. •
“Drayton”: Alexander Cuffe, whose death
in England by drowning was reported re-
cently, was a Darling Downs lad hailing
from Toowoomba. He early displayed ability
as a left-hand bowler, and came to Brisbane,
where he played for the Valley district club,
and later found a place in the Queensland
side. After the South African war he went
to England, and qualified as a professional
for Worcestershire, his bowling meeting with
considerable success for some seasons until
he dropped out of the county side.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Pleasing Fare to suit all
h
1/1 vf
€>
purses
Live and dine here
just as you wish, at
the rates you wish to
pay. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors. Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
Price 10/6
Correct
tyre
pressure
always.
c/his uniaue flat reading surrace gives
greater accuracy
Tyres inflated to thp / correct standard pressure
wear evenly, give more non-skid miles, and
save you time, trouble and money. Use an all-
British KISMET Tyre Tester regularly— its
unique FLAT reading surface gives dead accu-
rate pressure at a glance. Balloon, Standard
or Giant. Balloon, calibrated in lib. units up to
431 b. Standard up to 771 b., and Giant up to
1351 b. respectively. Patentees and Sole Manu -
foe tuters: WILLIAM TURNER AND BRO.,
LTD., EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Repre-
sentative: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71.
Melbourne.
w THE IMPROVED
KismeT
Universal
TYRE TESTER
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY HAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGTT'S LINSEED
MEAL
WOOD-GAS FOR FARM TRACTORS.
A couple of months ago a returned French-
Australian reported to The Bulletin that
he had been greatly impressed by the suc-
cessful use of wood-gas in farm-tractor work
in France. The matter was taken up by
the very energetic Department of Agricul-
ture in S. Australia, which appointed a com-
mittee to make practical tests. Mr. Secre-
tary W. L. Summers now sends us the
result. The main object, he says, was to
determine relative fuel-consumption costs of
wood-gas and petrol.
The tests were made near Enfield —on a
two-ton Cletrac using petrol and a two-ton
Cletrac to which a wood-gas producer,
patented and manufactured by A. G. Prit-
chard, of Wakefield-street, Adelaide, had
been fitted. They used two Shearer ploughs,
changing over after every second round.
References to Mr. Pritchard’s invention
appeared in an article written by “H.A.L.”
(B. 29/4/’3l).
The wood-gas engine is started on petrol,
and the furnace fuel is at once lighted by
means of a kerosene torch, and a small in-
duced-draught fan is manually operated to
bring the fuel to a state of incandescence.
The engine fuel inlet is then switched over
from petrol to wood-jgas. The whole of the
preparatory arrangements are completed and
the engine working on wood-gas within five
minutes. Previous tests having proved that
most of our more common varieties of timber
produced a satisfactory gas if well dried
containing not more than 10 per cent,
of moisture), the committee did not con-
sider it necessary to use more than the one
kind of wood —i.e., dry-cut mallee.
R. S. Longstaff, inspector of factories and
boilers, who did the checking, reported that
in 5 hours 47 minutes’ engine-running time
(which includes the journey from and to
the homestead, time occupied in changing
ploughs, and 41 hours’ actual ploughing),
the petrol-driven tractor consumed 8 gallons
and If pints of petrol (equal to approxi-
mately 1 gallon 3 pints per hour), and the
wood-gas tractor 1801 b. of wood and J gal-
lon of petrol. With petrol at 2s. per gallon
and wood cut small at £2 per ton, the respec-
tive costs work out at 16s. sd. for the petrol
tractor and 3s. Bd. for the wood-gas tractor,
which includes 6d. for petrol. On a full
81 hours’ working the wood-gas tractor
would use no more petrol, as this is only
used when lighting up the fire In the genera-
tor or after the engine has been standing
idle for more than, say, 30 minutes.
Calculated on 81 hours as an average
day’s actual working time the daily fuel
cost would be: For petrol-driven tractor,
£1 4s. lid.; wood-gas-driven tractor, ss. 2d. —-
showing a saving in favor of the latter of
18s. Hid. per day.
The committee concludes its report as
follows: “In view of the immense possibili-
ties for economy in tractor farming, and
the very great advantage which would re-
sult to the State if many thousands of
pounds now sent away for petrol and kero-
sene could be retained in the State, the com-
mittee recommend: (1) That one of these
wood-gas producers be fitted to the tractor
used by the Forest Department at Kuitpo,
and that the committee be authorised to
exercise some supervision over its opera-
tions; and (2), to encourage the use
of wood fuel for mechanical transport, the
Government reduce the registration fees on
tractors and lorries propelled by charcoal
or wood-gas to a nominal sum, as has been
done in France.”
The report is of very first importance to
the wheat industry of Australia.
SUBSIDISED HORSE-BREEDING.
“Centurion”: Advocating a return to the
old-time standard of utility horse-breeding
in. Australia (B. 27/5/’3l) “Bendee” men-
tions a Canadian scheme whereby private
syndicates, each member of which must own
a pedigreed mare, may be assisted by the
Government to acquire a stallion. The Gov-
ernment—presumably the horse is first vetted
and approved—advances 60 per cent, on its
cost up to £lOOO, the amount to be fepaid in
instalments. Further, there is a grant of
£4O annually for upkeep.
There are difficulties in the idea. First, a
syndicate of at least 10, owning as many
presumably valuable mares, has to be respon-
sible for the cost of a stallion of whose
worth it is, apparently, to be the sole judge.
Syndicates of this kind are not to be easily
got together at the best of times, and the
door seems open to dissension among mem-
bers. There is also the question of the dis-
posal of young stock. Most men familiar
with horse-breeding are aware that one mare
of exceptional breeding may not “nick” with
a certain sire, while another will. The syn-
dicate owner of a mare which has thrown
an exceptionally high-priced youngster would
be only human if he objected to cutting
50-50 with another member whose property
had produced an obvious dud to the same
sire.
A much better system, and one which has
stood the test of time, is the English “King’s
Premium.” Intended, primarily, to improve
the breed of horses of the hunter and trooper
types, it has in some measure been extended
to the draught sorts. A show of thorough-
bred stallions is held in London annually. At
this, 60 proved foalgetters between the ages
of 4 and 20, and free from hereditary disease,
are selected for one year. Owners of selected
stallions are given premiums from War
Office funds as follows: On selection, £75;
at the end of the covering season, £75; and
£1 for each mare the stallion serves, plus
£2 for each foal born of the union, this last
amount, of course, not being payable until
the conclusion of the following year’s foaling
season. In addition, owners of mares pay
the stallion owner £1 for each mare covered.
The War Office allows fees up to 90 mares
per stallion each year, any number in excess
being a matter for the owners to settle
between themselves. A premium stallion
must serve up to 70 half-bred mares in his
own district if called upon to do so. Fees
for thoroughbred mares, or for half-breds
outside his district, are again matters for
settlement by owners.
England is divided into 15 districts, and
the premium stallions allotted to these vary
in number ,from 2 to 15, though no stallion
can win a premium in the one district for
more than four years. Each stallion has a
fixed route to travel in his own district, and
his route must not be varied and must
adhere strictly to a time schedule, so that
owners of mares know where he will be on
a certain day. At week-ends he is to be
found at his fixed headquarters. It is esti-
mated that the average stallion on his round
earns about £450 annually, including the
two £75 premiums, but not counting any
fee by private arrangement where thorough-
bred mares are served. This fee is, by
general custom, usually £9 19s. 6d. at time
of service. Out of these receipts the owner
pays all expenses, including the wages of
the man in charge.
In the last return available, it is shown
that in 1928 the premium stallions served
7500 brood mares, a big increase on pre-
vious figures. Ther§ is plenty of evidence
that the number of’ brood mares kept by
farmers and small breeders generally is
annually increasing as a result of the pre-
mium scheme, which enables the small man
to breed good sorts at a very moderate cost.
A stallion which has fulfilled the limit of
his obligations as laid down by the War
Office earns from that body £l5O in pre-
miums, £9O in service fees, and £lBO for
foaling fees —£420 in all. Multiply that
extreme sum by 60 —the number of the pre-
mium stallions —and it will be seen that
the premium system costs the British Gov-
ernment, at the most, the trifling sum of
£25,200 a year, while putting money in
the pockets of breeders and providing the
hunting-field and the mounted-forces with
increased supplies of good horses.
GRASS SILAGE.
.“P.G.H.”: In south Westralia last year
a progressive dairy-farmer reserved about
20 acres for grass silage and hay-making,
top-dressing it in April with lcwt. of super,
per acre. The paddock was fed right up
to September 1 to a herd of cows; then it
was shut up and reserved for cutting for
silage and hay.
On November 1 cutting for silage com-
menced. Two men were employed at 10s.
per day for 12 days. Twelve acres were
cut; the excellent growth consisted princi-
pally of sub. clover, with some spear grass,
silver grass and giblets grass.
A circular stack 21ft. in diameter was
built in one corner of the paddock and
raised to a height of 18ft. The sides were
trimmed with a knife and thrown into the
centre; the top was surrounded with a ring
of "sleepers, placed on edge and joined to-
gether with strong fencing wire; earth exca-
vated from the sides of the stack was thrown
inside this ring of sleepers, forming a depth
on top of the stack of 15in. in the centre and
9in. on the edge. Though a platform 12ft.
from the ground was used, most of the grass
was thrown direct from waggon to stack.
On December 15 the owner decided to feed
the silage, as the pasture was drying off.
Sleepers taken away and earth thrown off,
there was 3in or 4in. of waste material on
the top. From then onwards the silage was
perfect, and the cows ate it readily. Up-
wards of a ton was distributed daily to a
herd of 54 cows —say, 401 b. per cow per
day—till March 30, being forked off the sur-
face for the most part. In effect the cows
were getting October pasture in February
in the shade of the trees and away from the
flies.
As a rule yield of milk falls away greatly
in Westralia in the hot summer months.
In this case the average daily return from
the 54 cows was: lo9gal. milk, 45.781 b.
butter-fat in December; 97gal. milk, 40.641 b.
butter-fat in January; 83gal. milk, 35.591 b.
butter-fat in February; 71gal. milk, 30.531 b.
butter-fat in March.
In previous seasons bran and chaff had
been bought for this herd. By substituting
grass-stack silage the owner saved £156 and
got an increased yield. During the last
three weeks of March the ration was supple-
mented by green maize grown on the farm.
This silage cost about 3s. 6d. per ton —
less than Id. per feed of 401 b. per day—
and it is practically a full ration. There is
no great skill required to make it—it is an
easier job than building a stack of hay. One
man and a boy can make a small stack; the
only requisites are a mower and a slide
or a low cart. The grass must be stacked
within half an hour of being cut; it does
not matter if it rains during cutting and
stacking. South Westralia is gaining in
importance as a dairying district. With
general use of grass-stack silage the
yields of herds will be materially increased
during the dry summer months and feed
bills will be practically eliminated.
WHERE TOP-DRESSING PAYS.
“Trifolium” : Generally the more fertile the
soil the greater the response from top-dress-
ing. This is explained by the operation of
limiting factors. ' In a poor soil texture and
hydrogen ion concentration may be unfavor-
able, whilst there may be also deficiencies in
lime, phosphates and nitrogen. Top-dressing
such a soil with superphosphates could not
encourage much extra growth, as plant
development would be held back bv the other
deficiencies. A characteristic fertile Aus-
tralian soil usually has a favorable texture, a
balance between acidity and alkalinity, a
satisfactory hydrogen ion concentration, and
a surplus of mineral plant foods, with the
exception of phosphates. The addition of
superphosphates to such a soil is most bene-
ficial.
Unfortunately, a- soil analysis is not a
direct indication of a soil’s manurial require-
ments. Thus an analysis might show an
abundance of phosphoric acid in a soil,, yet
this- would be of no use unless it was. in a
form in which it could be readily assimilated
by plants. The final court of appeal in all
cases must be field tests.
SCRUB-CUTTING.
“Booraby”: The term “scrub-cutting” is
used indiscriminately; in the majority of
cases where it is resorted to there may be
no scrub at all —only scattered clumps ot
fodder trees. To cut these down, as is often
done, is a very wasteful method of feeding.
The provident grazier never destroys a
useful tree, whether big or little or a mere
shrub He lops the small branches that
carry the foliage, carefully trimming the
tree so that it will carry a good head the
following season. In this way the same
trees serve year after year, and most of them
after lopping carry better tops than the
original. The tendency of many cutters is
to chop down small stuff, which should be
left or lightly topped, and to rough-treat
low trees that present difficulties in climb-
ing, such as mulga and myall. A light ladder
makes it quite easy to deal with these and
leave a neat top that will make vigorous new
growth. A light axe and a short-handled
brusli-hook or a cane-knife complete the
equipment. Treat every fodder tree as an
asset, and instead of lopping roughly and
in a haphazard fashion, set about it with
the object of pruning it to the best possible
advantage. In that way the standby will be
perpetuated and improved instead of wiped
out. A straggly, ugly tree can also be made
a decided ornament by careful lopping.
• Too little attention has hitherto been
given to this part of the grazing area. Trees
and shrubs should be looked upon as just
as important as grass and herbage, for in
drought-time there is nothing else left to
keep cattle and sheep alive. On hundreds
of small holdings one sees everything of the
kind has been cut out, and the bare paddocks
are bleak and cheerless to both humans and
animals. The owners of these places, by
their suicidal policy, are the first to suffer
when the grass goes.
THOSE UNSALEABLE SHEEPSKINS.
As a result of the unspeakable tomfoolery
of Federal politicians, many farmers and
graziers have unsold sheepskins on hand. An
export duty was clapped on in a hurry ; in a
week or two it was announced, following
on a High Court judgment, that duty paid
might be returned ; months later the impost
was withdrawn—in the meantime, of course,
the market collapsed. Writing in the \ ic.
“Journal of Agriculture,” Stock-inspector
Marshall points out that there are many
ways in which unsaleable skins might be
used with advantage on the farm, and gives
some very valuable hints, premising that n
skins are to be kept for any length of time
they should be sprayed for protection against
weevils and other vermin—lib. of arsenic and
31b. of soda to 5 gallons of water is sug-
gested as a suitable spray.
If skins are to be used for lining cow- or
horse-rugs and the like, wool from Mn. to
fin. should, Mr. Marshall says, be left on
them ; for mats or special purposes the full
length of wool may remain. To remove sur-
plus wool lay a skin out flat and use a sharp
pair of shears or good big scissors. Place
three gallons of water in a clean petrol- or
kerosene-tin, and add about 21b. of bran;
boil for five minutes, and strain off the bran.
To the liquid add II pints of “spent” sul-
phuric acid (you can generally get it free
from the butter factory) and two cups of
common salt; then fill tin; tin with cold water
so as to make in all about four gallons of
mixture, which should be stirred well and
allowed to cool. Completely immerse the
skin in this solution, and allow it to remain
from two to six days, according to thick-
ness, turning daily. Age and sex of the
animal will be a guide to length of time
required.
The immersion process completed, remove
skins, rinse them in cold water and allow
them to drain in a shady place. Squeeze any
surplus water from the wool, and to a gallon
of warm soapsuds add one cup of neatsfoot
oil or engine—or even sump oil from a car.
Mix suds and oil well, and when the skirt is
still soft and about half dry swab mixture
on the flesh side of the skin ; then fold up,
flesh side to flesh side, and leave for 24 hours.
Repeat swabbing two or three times at inter-
vals of 24 hours, and then allow skin to dry
off in a cool shady place. Work or knead it
several times during the drying-off process.
After drying, skins or pelts can be used for
rug lining. If it is intended to use the
skins for household mats or rugs, plenty of
kneading and working during the drying
process is necessary.
On the dairy farm, where bag or woolpack
rugs are used, two or more skins or pelts
fastened together and sewn on the under
side of the rug with the wool side outward
are, as Mr. Marshall says, very warm and
cosy.
PEAS AS A ROTATION CROP.
“Blackswan” : For various theoretical rea-
sons, chief of which is their ability to extract
nitrogen from the air and fix it in the soil,
legumes are suitable for rotation with cereals,
a matter well understood in South Australia.
An interlarding with peas has been found to
have especial advantages in south-west West-
ralia, where the rainfall is heavy and dairy-
ing and the raising of pigs and sheep can be
mixed with wheat- and oat-growing. One of
the most successful pioneers of the three-
crops-a-year system, J. H. Brett, of Dar-
danup, is a firm believer in peas. His recipe
is: October to March, maize and sorghum;
April to June, Burt’s early oats or barley ;
July to November, Brunswick White Field
peas. Alternatively, a peas-oats-subter-
ranean pasture rotation is advocated.
Last year Mr. Brett planted 30 acres of
pea, seeding 2 bushels per acre, with lscwt.
super, per acre. The marketable yield was
220 bags, which realised 275. per bag, in addi-
tion to which there was enough seed left on
the ground after harvesting to fatten 120 sheep
the total value of the crop being estimated
at £327. Cost of cultivating, planting and har-
vesting was set down as £9O, but Mr. Brett
uses a harvester with a pea-harvesting attach-
ment, and with less efficient equipment the
cost would be greater. As a food for cows Mr.
Brett’s experience is that ground peas cannot
be bettered. His cows “never milked better
or gave more cream” than when these were
added to their ration. Pigs thrive on peas,
whole, ground or mixed with swill. As peas
are not attacked by mice or weevils they are
especially suitable for storage.
As to the effect on the succeeding crop,
Mr. Brett’s experience was that his oats
grown for hay stood feeding off two or three
times, and then, after shutting up for har-
vest, cut 30cwt. to 40cwt. per acre —in some
cases twice as much as was yielded with
non-leguminous rotations. The peas made the
soil (a light loam) very friable, and there
was no need to wait for rains before disc-
ploughing and planting the following crop.
Though Mr. Brett hasn’t recorded experi-
ences with wheat, there seems no reason why
peas shouldn’t prove equally profitable on
a mixed farm where wheat is grown, provided
the rainfall is sufficient.
(Continued on page 26.)


Everything that the
heart of man has ever
wanted in a drink can be
found in a bottle of Tooth’s
K B Lager.
Tang of hops. Cool to throat.
Refreshing. Satisfying. A
rare lager with a place in
every home.
Open a bottle for dinner.
TOOTH’S
a z l /uajl
LAB Ell
vSWUfi
mm
&
m
jSr %
mk
s. bb v
%Sg»
s
V
s
COO L
SiACp
fss
S§3?>»
1
M
4
*SS
ss
Wi
egg
m
Wr
JK/o


This boot is made to
wear longer!
And it will wear longer than any
ordinary boot. It is built by
Abbey on a double sole of the
toughest procurable leather. The
upper, of strong, supple calf, is
shaped to eliminate all dragging
strain. It follows the instep
curve, fitting with perfect ease in
any position. Naturally, it lasts
better because of that.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium, and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL232
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed— .think of
è
é
FOOT-ROT & PRUNING
SECATEURS.
PlO—S P EC I A LLY
STRONG AND GOOD
FOOT-ROT SECA-
TEURS OR PRUNING
SHEARS. Made in
France. 9in. overall,
10/6 each, post free.
The above is the best
for station use.
Pl»—W. .TNO. BAKER
FOOT-
R O T SECATEURS.
Made in France; lOin.
overall, 10/6 each,
post free.
Write for New Illustrated Catalogue.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ “Snapshots of
‘Sport” Session, Station 2UW, every Thurs-
day, 7.15 to 7.80 p.m. t ,
The Song'
of the Bath
“Canaries sometimes sing” when the tap is
turned on; and it is a strange fact that the
morning cold shower is conducive to vocal
expression in the healthy man. If YOU
don’t sing in your bath, see what a few
minutes’ exhilarating exercise beforehand
with a “Sandow Developer” will do.
THE NEWEST
IDEAS IN
SANDOW
ATHLETIC
EQUIPMENT
AT
MickSimmoms
SANDOW DEVELOPER
1 mm
K
t *
'IISI
ê
Popular combi-
nation Model.
Set, 25/-
Improved Com-
bination Model.
Set, 37/6
SANDOW’S NEW
MODEL. DUMB-BELLS
Self-adjusting and grip-testing. Adjusts
to your strength, registers your grip
pressure, bell rings when closed and
released 25/-
The New
“TERRY 5-IN-l”
Combination Exerciser
—As-an extra strong,
chest expander.
—As an ordinary
chest expander
ë
o|o
Showing its adaptabil*
ity and compactness.
Heady to be fitted up
for use in either of the
five methods shown
0-—O
8 4 —As an auxiliary
chest expander
5-—As nu ordinary developer
No. 3, Strong 37/6
No. 3a, Extra Strong 42/6
Complete with Exercise Chart.
(Carriage extra on Athletic Equipment.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., JI ay market.
Sydney.
MkkSimmons
LIMITED,
7 2 0 HAYMARKE'T, S Y D N E V.
‘‘The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment
THE VALUE OF POTASH.
“Wilt”: “K. Alyum” (B. 27/5/’3l) and
“Wilt Resistant” (B. 22/4/’3l) are getting
a bit mixed. It is super., not potash, that
combines with ironstone to form an insoluble
compound, as stated by “Bar Iv.” (B.
25/2/’3l). “K. Alyum” still offers no evi-
dence to support his contention that pot tests
are more practically useful than field tests,
and I claim that they are less convincing.
The soil, moved, and placed in a box, is
released to a depth of two feet, and the con-
ditions cannot then be the same as in the
field. It is in the field, not in pots, that we
have to grow our crops, so why not test our
fertilisers under normal working field condi-
tions?
It would be difficult to apply potash or
other fertiliser accurately to pots at the field
rate of, say, Jcwt. to lewt. per acre, and
that quantity of potash properly applied
should not damage the seed or seedlings. If
potash will not show commercially profitable
results in field plots, as described by “6QJ”
(B. 8/4/’3l), its effect in pot trials is of
little use to us.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is the placing of drugs in drinking water
or in licks to he recommended for the treat-
ment of parasites in sheep? —36s7.
Not recommended. Write for N.S.W.
Agriculture Department’s free pamphlet.
What advantages are claimed for “country
killing"?— 362s.
Avoidance of market-rigging, clearing of
canning sorts which cannot profitably be sent
to the city at present rail freights, better
return to growers and better condition of
meat.
How to destroy rats by mixing plaster of
Paris and flour? —3134.
Mix one-third plaster of Paris with two-
thirds flour, add a little dripping and water
to make a dough, and set the baits about.
Much better results will be obtained by
mixing Boz. barium carbonate, 16oz. oatmeal,
Boz. beef dripping or tallow, ioz. salt. Make
into a dough, roll out and cut into half-inch
cubes. Put fresh bait every day.
What arc the advantages in Westralia of
the falloiv-ioheat-peas-wheat rotation, which,
I believe, has been followed in parts of S.A.?
Docs it deplete the land? —33l2,
In some districts where there is an abun-
dance of winter rain, and fallowing is, there-
fore, unnecessary to conserve moisture, the
growing of a crop of peas to precede the
wheat crop is advisable. The advantage
of including a legume in a rotation was
brought out very emphatically at the Wongan
Hills farm last year. Wheat after oats gave
13 bushels per acre; wheat after lupins, and
after a good crop, gave 18 bushels per acre;
wheat after fallow gave 181 bushels per
acre; and wheat after legumes with fallow
intervening gave 201 bushels per acre. The
growth of a good crop of peas, when fed off
in the rotation fallow-wheat-peas-wlieat
would restore a considerable proportion, if
not all. of the nitrogen which was removed
from the soil as the result of fallowing and
the removal of the two wheat crops, and in
this way would lessen the depletion of both
nitrogen and organic matter. It would not.
however, replace the phosphoric acid and
potash which were removed by the wheat
crops. The quantities of these removed can
only be replaced by the addition of artificial
fertilisers such as super, and muriate
of potash. An advocate of peas before
cereals, Mr. Brett, of Dardanup (W.A.),
reports his results for last year in the W.A.
“Journal of Agriculture” for September.
Arc farm-laborers in N.S.W. covered by a
State award, or has such an award been
rescinded? If so, when? What wages must a
farm-laborer be paid? —3s29.
Employees in rural industi'ies were
removed from the scope of the Arbitration
Act in December, 1929, and all awards cover-
ing such employees were rescinded. A
N.S.W. farm-laborer’s wage is not now fixed
by law in any way.
How to rid cabbages of slugs? —364l.
Dusting with lead arsenate is the best
treatment, but as the crop is probably fairly
well advanced and as it is not advisable to
dust with lead arsenate within a month of
cutting, you had better use the bait recom-
mended in leaflet “Snails, Slugs and Slaters,”
issued by the N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment.
How to ripen tomatoes in large quantities?
Js acetylene gas successful? —3595.
Artificial ripening is not practicable.
Ethylene gas brings up some color, but this
does not affect maturity, and a maturity
standard is provided under the Queensland
Fruit and Vegetables Act. Anyway, the fruit
ripens naturally and ai'tificial coloring of any
sort is decidedly detrimental.
(1) Name of book on poultry-breeding for
beginners? (2) Space per bird in fowlhouse?
(3) Sho\uld roosters be allowed in with hens
and about how many hens per rooster? (4)
Quantity of mash per bird per day? (5)
Ages of commencing laying? —34o3.
(1) Poultry Bulletin 54 and pamphlets
obtainable from Director of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne. (2) Four square feet per bird. (3)
Only during the time eggs are required for
hatching purposes, which in Vic. is July,
August and September. Males of light breeds
can be mated to 12 or 15 hens; heavy breeds,
6to 10 hens. (4) Birds for egg production
should be given as much as they will eat.
It is usual to allow 2oz. per bird. (5) Utility
breeds start laying at about five months;
some heavy breeds six to seven months.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Paul C.”: Rusted ploughshares and
mouldboards require additional power to pull
them and do inferior work. To a pint of
water add (very slowly) 4oz. of sulphuric
acid, handling the latter carefully, as it
will burn clothing or flesh. Wet the rusted
share or mouldboard with the mixture; five
minutes afterwards scour it well with dry
sand ahd then grease it. It will very soon
brighten when set to work again.
“Sylvester”: Rats and mice were over-
running my farm buildings. I built a shed
with galvanised-iron walls and a sawn hard-
wood floor; the mice came up between the
edges of the floor-boards and the eorruga-
tions. I cut three-inch strips of plain iron,
scribed them to fit the iron and tacked them
to the floor. Result: I can store my chaff,
etc., without having each bag made into a
maternity hospital.
“Bushman” : The waste of corn-husks in
Australia is appalling. In U.S.A. they are
used extensively for polishing rubber, whilst
local cockies have kept stock alive on them
in many a drought. They furnish good bed-
ding for stock, and when ploughed in very
deeply make humus. Left lying about in
heaps they are only harbors for pests and
insects.
“Paul C.”: To soften dry, hard harness,
take it apart and give it a thorough wash
in warm water, with a little soda added.
Scrub well with a brush, working the parts
with the hands till soft; hang up in the
shade till it is about three parts dry, apply
pure sweet oil plentifully on both sides,
and hang up again to dry. After it is
dry go over it again with the oil, wipe the
parts with a coarse dry cloth, and put j
together again.
“Hornby”: Poxskins will soon bring in
a bit of money—in N. S. Wales, at all
events. This is a simple and sure way of
getting Reynard. In a condensed milk-tin of
dripping thoroughly mix a matclibox-lid of
powdered strychnine. In another tin carry
unpoisoned dripping. To the end of five
yards of wire attach half a dozen skinned
rabbits and partly roast them —don’t touch
them after roasting, as human scent will
scare any fox. Drag a trail across paddocks
and round water sources. About 200 yards
apart select logs, bore a hole with inch auger,
partly fill with plain fat, and top with the
poisoned article. Having licked the poison
the fox will stay trying to get to the bottom,
and will be found dead at the log or within
ten yards.
“Cockyson”: The cunningest hawk is
easily trapped once he takes to killing fowls.
A kill should be tied to a stake, driven
firmly in the ground, at a height easily
accessible from the top of it, but out of the
hawk’s reach from the ground. Across the
top of the stake —it should be about the
height of a fence-post—a flat piece of board
to act as a platform should be nailed, and a
set rabbit-trap affixed to it. The hawk, not
being able to reach his kill, to which he will
return again and again from the ground, will
try to get at it from the top of the stake,
with disastrous results to himself. Gos-
hawks (there are three species) usually work
in pairs. The bait and trap should not be
removed until the second bird has been
caught.
“Floodmark” :i When ringbarking a freely-
suckering tree, such as a woollydratt, ring
the tree as high as possible. This induces
the suckers to grow well up on the tree;
they are thus easily knocked off, and the
tree is more readily killed. If the tree is
rung low the suckers grow close to or under
the ground, and are difficult to deal with.
“J.A.S.”: With a good strong light the
first test of eggs in the incubator can be made
on the fourth or fifth day. Infertile eggs
showing clear then are fit for use, even at
the breakfast table. Addled eggs tested out
at, say, ten days, and eggs with derms that
have only lived for a few days, should be
used as feed for chickens or calves, mixed
with the mash or skim milk. And if you keep
a pig or two it will relish the eggs that are
rejected even at later periods—you can mix
them with its food, shell and all.
“Hop Scrub”: The amemic condition of
the Jonathans mentioned by “Disc Harrow”
(B. 20/5/’3l) might have been due to
causes other than a let-up on the secateurs.
Before bearing age, trees, in their shoots,
where 75 per cent, of plant food is stored,
exhibit nitrogen in excess. Any reduction
of shoot growth is followed by a pause in
growth due to the tree having too elaborate
plant food again—90 per cent, of its
tucker comes from the air. Consequently
up to bearing age heavy pruning reduces the
total size and weight of the tree. Sufficient
pruning must be done to shape the tree and
keep it within limits for easy working; be-
yond that, reduction of leaf area means
reduced size, whether tree or limb be con-
sidered as unit.
“Gordo Blanco”: Cheap wheat is not all
loss to the country. Last year’s egg export
ran to 70,000,000, and thousands of pork
carcases were sent abroad. The pork business
could not have been such a failure as stated;
a buyer is already operating in Melbourne
markets. At current prices for both eggs and
pork, they could not be profitable except on
cheap wheat. Last season a Melbourne
exporter was approached about buying pigs
from our northern Vic. district; he offered
to buy straightout or export on our
behalf and render account sales. When tin'
district was canvassed by the sec. of the local
Pigbreeders’ Association it was found that
not even one truckload of suitable pork could
be got together—this in a dairying district!
The unfortunate position of the pig industry
is caused by the nondescript typo of pig
fattened. In any district you can get a long
line of export lambs of one type; with pigs,
all breeds, shapes and sizes are jumbled into
the market.
“Golightly”: A neighbor of mine in N. S.
Wales decided to change from wool to fat
lambs. He ordered Southdown rams from
M. searched the countryside for 1500 first
crossbred ewes without success, and had to
get merino ewes. I inspected the resultant
drop of lambs recently and feel sure this
farmer will be disappointed with his ven-
ture. The Southdown is one of the smallest-
framed of all the English breeds (though
well formed), and when mated with a merino
ewe, also of small frame, the offspring has
little chance of reaching the required export
weight (about 361 b.) before its mother’s milk
flow reduces. The Southdown crossed with
a Longwool or merino crossbred ewe produces
the small neat carcase which is everywhere
in demand, being pi'ime quality lamb of deli-
cate flavor with almost perfect conformation.
Their clip is light with some grey hair.
“Eumungerie”: In 1924 I grew on my
N. farm about the same quantity of
wheat as in 1930. Certainly 1924 wheat
was all f.a.q., while in 1930 less than one-
fourth was r.a.q. My 1924 returns from
wheat amounted to £2786 145.; and from
wool, £647. For 1930 up to date I’ve
had from wheat £312, and from wool £175.
If our Parliaments had onlv nut half the
effort into stabilising rural industry that
they put into secondary industry, prospects
would be now much better all round.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. 4% >,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gardener, Sydney, exp., wants work, 10s. day or
Is. 6d. per hour. Refs.—37l7.
Accountant, degrees (28), wants work of any sort.
Competent cardriver. Refs. —3172.
Young man (23) offers services for passage to
England, China or India. Clerical exp., and could
act as valet. Would pay part passage.—3696.
Married couple (N.S.W.), with boy of seven, man
laborer, wife assist house, plain sewing, wants position
on farm or station. —3662.
Young lady (23), N.S.W., book-keeper, wants posi-
tion on station. Can ride.—3642.
Young lady (19), Sydney, typist and shorthand-
writer, passed Intermediate exam., can operate tele-
phone switchboard, wants position in , city office. —
3640. .
To get in touch with Vic. suppliers of clover,
grass and Hunter River lucerne seed. —3691.
To buy elementary knitting and crochet books. —
3669.
To buy “Cartoons by Claude Marquet’’ and “Car-
toons by Bradley.”—3677.
Copy of verses beginning, “ ‘What is it makes a
man stick to the sea? Ask me another,’ said Wil-
liam Magee.”—37os.
To buy “Bandsman’s Happy Hours at Home” and
“Bandsman’s Leisure Hours.” —3755.
Words and music of the best old sea chanties
(unabridged).—376l.
Information Sought.
(1) If I let a tenant into one of my houses
rent free, can-1 put him out when I want
tof (2) Can I charge rent to him later on?
—3588.
(1) Yes. (2) Not without agreement to
that effect.
(1) What is the legal method in N. S.
Wales of appointing trustees for a reserve
for a public hall? (2) Should appointments
come up periodically for review or are they
permanent? (3) What are the legal require-
ments in convening a public meeting to
select public-hall sites or recreation reserves?
—3547.
(1) By deed or other instrument, but
an implied trust may arise where it is clear
that property is held by one or more persons
for the benefit of others. (2) Usually pro-
vision is made for the appointment of new
trustees in the event of death or resignation.
(3) Consult the authority by whom the
grant was made. This wiil be disclosed in
the deed.
Has the vaccine treatment for rheuma-
toid arthritis proved successful? What docs
the vaccine consist of, and who discovered
it?— 36lB.
There is no specific vaccine. Some doc-
tors have isolated micro-organisms from the
blood of acute cases, and have made vaccines
from them, injections of which, it is claimed,
have afforded considerable relief from pain
and a great improvement in the affected
joints. These cases have been comparatively
few in number. Dr. Painter, of Boston, has
used what is called a “stock vaccine,” but
has been disappointed with his results in the
main. Dr. Warren Crowe has reported im-
provement in patients by the use of vaccine
made from a micrococcus isolated in the
urine of the sufferers. Other investigators
have reported considerable improvement
arising from the use of a vaccine from the
strepto-bacillus found in pyorrhoea. The
general vaccine used is prepared from the
Streptococcus rheumaticus and “a basic
mixed infection.” The results vary in value,
and are often It may be
worth while, however, to try vaccine treat-
ment.
Referring to the death of George 111.,
Thackeray says, “All the world knows the
story of his malady.” What is the story?
—3706.
He was subject to fits of insanity, the
first of which assailed him at the age of 27.
He was quite mad for a year at the age of
50, and had relapses at intervals of a few
years. At 73 he became both permanently
mad and blind, and died nine years later.
(1) How much wheat does Britain im-
port annually, and what are the principal
sources of supply? (2) Is it a fact that
when Australia spends money on public
works, the British Government makes Aus-
tralia a proportionate grant?— 34B7.
(1) Total value in 1929 was £57,784,498,
chief suppliers being Argentina, £22.906,500;
Canada, £14,162,371; U.S.A., £11,742,051;
Australia, £6,840,517. There were no im-
ports from Soviet Russia. (2) No.
(1) Did Maoriland at any period have a
system of provincial councils? (2) Why
was that system abandoned? —3688.
(1) Yes, from 1853 to 1876. (2) Osten-
sibly because of the mismanagement of
“waste land” sales by provincial Administra-
tions. The provincial Governments existed
coincidentally with, a central Government of
the whole colony. Their abolition was engi-
neered by Premier Vogel as a necessary pre-
lude to his great borrowing and .spending
policy.
(1) Are N.B.W. public-school teachers de-
barred from buying N.B.W. Grown land? (2)
How much does it cost to get Crown land
surveyed? —3s46.
(1) No, provided they are in a position to
carry out conditions attached to the hold-
ing, such as residence. ■ (2) About £7 per
100 acres.
An Aboriginality recently mentioned that a
serum for tiger-snake bite had been perfected.
Where can / obtain a supply?— 3ls2.
So far this antivenin has been issued only
to hospitals and medical men. Get in touch
with the Director, Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories.
What opportunities are there in Australia
for a person with a knowledge of several
modern languages, in commercial posts, for
example? —BlB7. . .
Few. The necessity for communicating
with foreign business men in their own
language is not. great. As it is, a number
of foreign correspondence clerks have lost
their positions.
(1) What standard of education is neces-
sary to become an optometrist? (2). Can
an optometrist advertise himself as an “eye
specialist” ? (3) From whom can particu-
lars regarding optical education l>e obtained?
—3589. „ .
(1) Can’t say. Under the N.S.W. Opti-
cians Act of 1980, optometrical education is
to be conducted at the Technical College,
Ultimo, Sydney, but the Optical Board has
done nothing regarding a syllabus, and the
conditions of the course are not prescribed.
(2) No. (3) The Registrar, Optical Board,
Board of Health, Macqunrie-street, Sydney.
(1) What conditions must a person comply
with when going to ,Tahiti? (2) Where can
a passport be obtained? (3) can I
get particulars regarding sailings? —3s97.
(1) A British subject must possess a
valid national passport vised at e French
Consulate, a document giving proof of
respectability, a medical certificate and a
sum of money sufficient for his repatriation
in case the authorities should consider it
necessary. (2) Customs Department. Sydney.
(3) Messageries Maritimes, Grosvenor-street,
Sydney.
I have a Chevrolet car. (1) Could I
register it in Sydney as a\ taxi-cab? (2)
What fares could I charge? (3) What con-
stitutes private-hire work? (4) Must private-
hire cars be fitted with a fare-recording
meter? (5) Usual rales charged by private-
hire car owners? —3666.
(1) Yes, if the car complies with the
regulations of the Metropolitan Transport
Trust. (2) Flag fall of Is. and not more
than Is. 6d. per mile. (3) Hiring by direct
telephone to the depot at which the cars
are kept. (4) No. (5) Varies from Is. 6d.
to 2s. per mile, mileage in this case being
paid from garage to garage. Waiting time
is charged at the rate' of 6s. to 10s. per hour.
(1) When was the Military Cross insti-
tuted ? (2) To what ranks was it given?
(8) Under what conditions? (41 What
appears on the medal? (5) What are the
colors of the ribbon? —3681.
(1) December, 1914. (2) To officers below
the rank of major and to warrant officers.
(3) Since 1916, for gallantry in action. (4)
It is a silver cross, on each arm of which
is an imperial crown with the imperial cipher
“G.R.1.” in the centre. Bars are awarded
for further services. (5) White watered
silk with a purple centre.
What is the “ragged thirteen ” in .crib-
bage?—3729.
Never heard of it. May refer, to thirteen
scored with two jacks and a pair of fives.
These count 12, and with “one for his nob”
13.
We intend to start a public lending library
in a N.S.W. country town. Could we secure
assistance from the Carnegie Trust, and how
would we go about it? —3311.1 :
Write sec. Carnegie Corporation, 522 sth-
avenue, New York. No harm in trying.
(1) What are skystones? (2) Have any
fallen in Australia, and where? (3) Is
there record of precious metals being found
in them?— 362B.
(1) Meteorites —cosmic matter probably
belonging to the solar system. While tra-
velling through space they come within the
earth’s gravitational influence. As they pass
through our atmosphere friction causes the
matter to become incandescent, and eventu-
ally the skystone explodes, and some of the
larger fragments may reach the earth. (2)
Several meteorites have been found in
N.S.W, the principal one being the Gilgoin
meteorite in the Museum. (3) They consist
of the same matter as that composing the
earth’s crust, the principal metals being
iron and nickel. Traces of most, if not all,
of our known metals are also found.
(1) Were the Tasmanian abos. related to
the mainland blacks? (2) How many ivere
there estimated to be in Tas. when the Eng-
lish arrived? (3) Who was the last of the
tribe and date of death? (4) Circumstances
leading up to the unsuccessful rounding-up
of them by an early Governor?— 369o.
(1) No. Besides differing in physical
characteristics the Tasmanians were more
primitive. (2) About 2000. (3) Trucanini, a
female, the last proven pure-blood, died on
May 8, 1876. (4) Driven to retaliation by
the shocking brutality of sealers and con-
vict stockmen, rapers of their women, the
natives murdered some settlers in 1820.
Their leader, a N.S.W. abo., was eventually
hanged. But as murders by blacks of whites
became more frequent, Governor Arthur sent
3000 mjen in Sept., 1830, to capture the Oyster
Bay and Big River natives. For seven
weeks this army marched down the east
coast of Tas. aiming at driving the tribes
on to East Bay Neck. This drive cost
£35,000,. and one woman and one boy were
captured. These had been caught asleep
under a log.
(1) Approximate cost of aerial survey?
(2) Cost in comparison with ground survey
(accuracy within one acre) ? 13) Have aerial
surx>eys been made in Australia? (4) Could
an ordinary photographer do the job? (5)
How does it compare with ground survey in
regard to accuracy? (6) As there are no
visible fixed compass points hereabouts,
would a measured _ square-acre suitably
marked’ so as to be visible in photographs do
for purposes of scale, or is there a better
method ?— 3402.
(1) Depends on scale, type of map re-
quired and distance from the nearest, land-
ing-ground and aircraft co. Probably about
£2 per square mile. (2) For ai*eas of mod-
erate and large size, and for work at medium
scale, air survey is usually more economical,
especially in inaccessible areas. For small
areas in good country ground survey is per-
haps cheaper. If only a reasonable degree
of accuracy is required air photographic
survey is undoubtedly quicker and cheaper.
(3) The Air Force has photographed large
areas, including over 1000 square miles in
Queensland, for mapping purposes. (4)
No. Special equipment and experience are
necessary. (5) With suitable equipment and
control it is in most cases as accurate as
ground survey. For the purpose you indi-
cate it would afford the required degree of
accuracy at less cost than ground survey.
(6) Not necessary.
In the event of a person obtaining a posi-
tion on a goldfield near Bulolo, New Guinea.
(1) How much money must he land withf
(2) Cost of setting up camp? (3) Weekly
cost of provisions, etc.? (4) What clothing
is worn? Would leggings and breeches be
too hot? (5) Are there any indispensable
things that must be taken? —3753.
(i) £5O must be deposited with the
Administration at Itabaul as a guarantee;
the officials must be satisfied that the new-
comer has sufficient financial backing or re-
sources to prevent him being stranded. (2)
A tent camp should not cost more than one
of the same kind in Australia. (3) Food
per man costs about £4 per week. There
are boarding-houses, etc., available. (4) On
the field, ordinary rough clothing. Leggings
and breeches would be suitable. It is cold
in the mountains. (5) Nothing that you
cannot get on the spot; it would do no
harm to take a fair supply of quinine and
iodine.
(1) How did the office of poet laureate
originate? (2) Who was the first holder of
the post? (3) What were his duties? (4)
Did he receive any emoluments? (5) Who
have been the more recent poet laureates and
who occupies the office at present? —3762.
(1) and (2) The job was created by
Charles I. for Ben Jonson in 1617, but the
first official holder of the title was Dryden,
1670. (3) He used to be expected to write
verses appropriate to the birthdays of Royalty
and other State occasions, but Wordsworth
ended that by refusing to produce formal
effusions. (4) Jonson got at first a pension
of 100 marks (£66 13s. 4d.) and later a
tierce of wine (42 gallons) annually. Some
later holders of the laureateship took £27
instead of the wine, among them Tennyson,
who also received £72 p.a. (51 Southey,
Wordsworth, Tennyson, Alfred Austin,
Bridges and John Masefield (present holder).
(1) What is the botanical name of the
Queensland nut? (2) What are its other
common names? (3) Is it a small or large
tree? (4) Are the nuts edible? (51 What
is its timber like? (6) In what States is
it to be found,? —3466.
(1 ) Macadamia ternifolia. (21 Nut oak
or Bopple nut. (3) It is a tree 20ft. to 30ft.
high with a basal diameter of six to nine
inches. (4) The nuts are edible and suitable
for use in confectionery. (5) The timber is
pale mauve in color and finely marbled like
silky oak. The wood is very hard to cut,
but straight-grained and easily split. It is
too hard and heavy for cabinet-making. (6)
Queensland and N.S.W.
Why is the nine of. diamonds called the
“curse of Scotland” ? —3654.
There are many explanations of the term,
none very convincing. John Dalrymple,
Earl of Stair, who signed the order for the
massacre of Glencoe, came of a family which
has nine lozenge-like diamonds on its shield;
the Duke of Cumberland at Culloden wrote
his orders on the back of a nine of diamonds;
nine diamonds were stolen from the crown in
the reign of Mary, and the Scottish people
were taxed to make good the loss; the nine
of diamonds was the winning card in the
game of comete, which ruined many Holyrood
courtiers. Yet another theory is that “curse”
is a corruption of “cross,” the card being
printed like a St. Andrew’s cross in olden
times.
(1) Is it true , as stated in a book, that
“France supplies all the rabbit-skins im-
ported into U.S.A.”? (2) That in 1929
M.L. supplied the V.S.A. with 21,576.9441 b.
of fresh beef? (3) That in 1929 the U.S.A.
imported 781,623,000,000,000 needles? —3653.
(1) No. Australia supplied £1,268,453
worth in 1928-29 and £660.076 worth in
1929-30. M.L. supplied £127,764 worth in
1929. (2) No. M.L. can’t exDort fresh
beef anywhere save on the hoof. Frozen
beef exports to U.S.A. in 1929 were
16,291,7441 b. No live cattle were exported
there. (3) 6| million needles a year for
every man. woman and child in the nation
seems a bit too liberal an allowance.
I have a small plaster statuette which I
wish to copper-plate heavily. How could the
work be done, using dry cells for current? —
3760.
A heavy deposit is out of the question, as
the continual building up of the deposit leaves
a rough granulated finish. The correct method
is to make a plaster mould of the figure in
two halves; paint face of mould with metal-
lic composition, and suspend in bath of sul-
phate of copper, with copper anodes oppo-
site each half of mould. When deposit is of
sufficient thickness to handle (about 100
hours) remove from mould and join to make
complete figure, which is then copper-plated.
Dry cells would be useless; the usual battery
or cell used is a Smee, consisting of two zinc
plates and one silver immersed in diluted sul-
phuric acid. You could have the figure
sprayed with copper.
I am one of two trustees for an estate.
The senior trustee practically runs the
estate. I countersign cheques. In the event
of anv irregularity or deficiency, am I liable?
Should there be an annual audit f—3684.
You are equally responsible with your co-
trustee. Trustees are bound to present
accounts of their administration when
ordered to do so by the Court.
Information Supplied.
3489. —To remove lichen from a slate roof
put a bucketful of lime, either quick or
slaked, into a barrel of water, stirring occa-
sionally for a week. Let settle, and use
the clear water for spraying or syringing
roof. A dusting with sifted slaked lime will
also kill tha lichen.
Brief Answers.
W. 8.: Not advisable to use chemicals on
the face to stop the growth of hair. Electrolysis,
under skilled hands, often gives satisfactory results.
. ...A.L.F.: It is generally understood that
Melba developed a variety of paratyphoid infection
whilst staying in Egypt. She was over 70 years
of age, undoubtedly a decisive factor in resistance
to disease.... A.H.D.; Nothing known officially about
the use of bran as a laxative. Why not use
fruits ?... .H.S.C.; Write Assistant-Paymaster-General,
Supreme Court Pay Office, London J.C.G.: Obtain
pamphlet on rabbit destruction from Agriculture
Department, Sydney T.E.A.: It is a term formerly
applied to a native-born girl of N.S.W. to distinguish
her from an immigrant J.J.W.: See the “Money,
Stocks and Shares” advertising column of the “S. M.
Herald”... .J.H.: J. J. Graves, secretary of the
A.L.P. in N. S. Wales.... F.H.H.: Get in touch
with Thos. Cook and Son, Mar tin-place, Sydney.
. ...D.H.: Hopeless. Never heard of any crushings.
. ...G.1.T.: Nowadays “Mr.” and “Esq.” are optional
alternatives, “Esq.” being the more deferential
E.M.8.: Australian Authors’ Publishing Co., 62 New
South Head-road, Vaucluse, Sydney... .P.D.: There
have been various political “arrangements” between
those factions in the U.S.A. Which particu-
lar one do you want to know about ?... .C.J.C.:
Bennett’s “Clayhanger” in the limited edition
of 200 copies, signed by the author and published
in 1925 by Methuen, should be worth £3 35.....
L. J. 8.; The water is suitable for horses, cattle and
sheep.. . .G.H.H.: He flew over the Panama Canal
on February 9, visited Peru, then proceeded down
the western coast of South America, then up the
eastern coast, visiting all the principal towns en
route. For details see newspaper files.... A. J.: (1)
Crocodile skins are marketable. (2) K. Pribil,
Box 368GSS, G.P.0., Sydney. Price varies up to
15s. per skin according to size and condition. (3)
and (4) They are sold at auction in Sydney. . Get
in touch with Sehute, Bell and C 0.... .A.P.8.:
Ernest Raymond, the novelist, was born in 1888.
He was ordained an Anglican priest in 1914, but
resigned in 1923. He served on various fronts
during the war... .A.M.D.: There is no vet. course
at Brisbane Uni. You would have to matriculate
and attend Sydney Uni. for four of five years. You
cannot take a degree in Australia without attending
a uni G.C.8.: Get in touch with the publisher
of her books... .T.T.R.: Try Mitchell Library,
Sydney... .K.S.W.: (1) Write to the Society of
Genealogists, 5 Bloomsbury-square, London, W.G'l.
(2) Yes, from the Naval Board, Dept, of Defence.
Melbourne... .F.J.D.: Consult dictionaries at Public
Library, Sydney... .M.H.: (1) Communicate with
the secretary, Academie des Inscriptions et Belles-
Lettres, Paris. (2) Couldn’t republish actual writ-
ings without permission. To mention the discovery
would not constitute plagiarism. (3) Public
Library, Brisbane, would help you... .T.F.M.: (1)
The Panama Canal was opened to commercial
traffic on August 15, 1914. Figures regarding its
operations will be found in “The World Almanac”
and “Whitaker’s Almanack”.. . .G.R.S.; Get in
touch with the Deputy-Industrial Registrar, Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court, Darlinghurst....
J.C.W.S.: F. W. Thring, Efftee Film Production' Co.,
Melbourne... .M.C.: You cannot claim a • share of
your wife’s money, and since, apparently, you left
her, cannot obtain a divorce. The O.A.T. Department
acted in accordance with law... .E.D.C.: Details of
Chapman and Hall’s novel competition can be obtained
from A. M. Heath and Co., literary agents, 188 Picca-
dilly, London, W.1...-P.L.E.: Get in touch with Miss
Doris Fitton, the Independent Theatre, 60 King-street;
Miss Carrie Tennant, the Community Playhouse, Forbes-
street; or Duncan Maedougall, the Playbox Theatre,
256 Crown-street —all Sydney ... .W.E.E. ; The popu-
lation of N.S.W. at Dec. 31, 1930, was estimated at
2,500,486 ; of Australia at 6,476,032. For the year
ending June 30. 1930, N.S.W. imports totalled
£56,517,208 and exports £35,761,807; Common-
wealth imports, £129,549,935and exports £125,127,148.
...D.R.P.: Write care of J. C. Williamson, Sydney...
F.A.T.: From the Dept, of Lands at Sydney and
Brisbane... .C.H.8.: See '“Woman’s Mirror,” March
24, 1931 A.0.D.: Hadlington’s “Poultry Farm-
ing in N.5.W.”... .J.S.; Try a mixture of turpen-
tine and ammonia, equal quantities; soak it on
and scrub with a wire or other hard brush. If
this is not successful, buy a commercial paint-
remover... .E.W.W. • If he is a tenant at will, as
appears to be the case, you can make him quit
at any time you please., . .A.W.: You would have
to show uninterrupted usage over 20 years to estab-
lish a right-of-way.. . .R.A.E.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Education, Melbourne. .. .N.L.F.; A bill-of-
sale in N.S.W’. comprising household furniture actu-
ally in use by husband and wife living together is
ineffective unless the consent of the wife or the
husband is endorsed thereon.... E.D.; Country lend-
ing branch of the N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney,
will furnish books on the subject... .G.G.8.; Get
in touch with a patent attorney.... J;C.O.: Under
the N.S.W. Moratorium Act the reduced rate of
interest only can be sued for. The mortgagee cannot
foreclose till April 30, 1933. Thereafter, should
he sell the property, he could sue the mortgagor
for any shortage. .. .D.K.R. ;■ (1) You can enlist only
in Britain. (2) Yes. (3) Secretary, War Office,
Whitehall, London, S.W.I S.M.G.; The line “I’m
trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain” is from
Norman Campbell’s “The Long Road,” included in
“The Dinky-Di Soldier and Other Jingles,” published
in 1918 and now out of print. .. .J.S.P.: Too many
variations in conditions to make a table of practical
value. Best plan is to use a photometer... .V.F.P.:
Endowment is not payable... .J.P.: Worth about 30s.
Don’t send it to London... .G.M.: It would be foolish
to go there without first getting a job. Write
Burns, Philp C.P.R.: “Australian Meteorology,”
by Dr. Griffith Taylor, any bookseller, and “Climate
and Weather in Australia,” by Hunt, Taylor and
Quaile, Meteorological Bureau, Melbourne, ss.
. ...G.A.S.; Write to Papuan Rural Products, 185
Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .8..T.M.: Get in touch
with some firm manufacturing articles in the same
material as your deviefe, .or advertise • it, if your
patent has been granted... .W.E.D.; In the case of
a person employed at 30s. per week and keep, 7s.
should be deducted on the total earnings for three
weeks. H.N.P.: (1) Turpentine, benzine or raw
linseed oil. (2) The makers suggest turpentine or
benzine. .. .E. 8.: It is unnecessary for an artist to
draw in all fine lines in designs for stamps. In these
matters the engraver uses his judgment.... J.A.:
Trinity is one of the “Associated Schools of N.5.W.,”
which include St. Aloysius College, Barker College,
Cranbrook School and Knox Grammar School, and was
formed in 1929 J.H.; Wash well, and when
dry rub with fine glasspaper till smooth. Then rub
neatsfoot oil in with a flannel till a good polish
is obtained, and finish off with neatsfoot oil contain-
ing a little lamp-black... .J.R.: Make inquiries at
Ford agencies, or from dealers in second-hand motor
accessories. .. .A.W.: (1) Yes. (2) Approximately
10s. 6d. per half-hour’s treatment. (3) There
are specialists in Brisbane. (4) Yes. It is
a tedious and mildly painful operation. . (5)
Not to our knowledge.. . .H.G.': N.S.W. Agriculture
Department has no knowledge of an Italian chestnut.
Spanish and Japanese are listed by nurserymen at
about 2s. 6d. per tree.... (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £100 IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J.HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, has the wild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry the mailman. Suddenly the
horses take fright and bolt ; Hairy is
thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable crash into the
creek-bed below by the decisive action
of Craig, who, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a boy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
tries, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like, and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever when he
discovers his mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig’s roman-
tic personality. He is going away for
a while to help a queer character,
Larry Nolan, with his horses. Next
day the girls go out to watch some
li orse-handling ; near the homestead.
CHAPTER V ( Continued ).
THE girls gained the shelter of the black-
smith’s shop—a big, high-roofed shed of
galvanisfed-iron, filled with an ordered
miscellany of dusty tools and implements.
They threaded their way past the forge
to a dim corner, where, perched on some
cases, they had the choice of two windows,
one looking directly into the round yard—•
a high, railed, circular enclosure entered by
a tall gate of round bush timber from one
of the other yards. It was empty at
present. From the other window they
looked on the present, scene of activity.
The horses had been run into a big
receiving-yard on the farther side from
their coign of vantage. Occasionally,
through the whirling dust, they caught
sight of an assorted row of tousle-headed
.black figures, of all shapes and sizes. Their
shrill yells and cries drifted in above the
rifle-like crack of stockwhips, the drumming
of hoofs, shouted commands, or the chal-
lenging snort of a horse.
Peggy pointed out a stocky figure manip-
ulating a gate —that was Scotty Cameron.
Opposite him, a long, lean, moustached
fellow wearing a sun-bleached waistcoat
over his blue shirt—reminding Margaret of
her old friend Harry the mailman—was
Tom Sanderson—“once a great rider, but
getting a bit old now.” She picked out the
slim, graceful figure of the young black-
fellow Jerry at the end of the lane nearest
them, and, as she looked, at a yell from
Ken he pulled his gate wide open and a
beautiful bay mare galloped through, lash-
ing sideways at the vague figure, then
careered round the yard once, coming to
a dead stop in the centre with a piercing
snort, head high, mane and tail flying,
defiance in eveiy beautiful line.
“Listen to her! That’s Whistler, one of
Tom Sanderson’s,” Peggy interposed, her
eyes on distant proceedings. “Wait till she’s
saddled—she snorts and whistles and be-
haves as if she’d buck like the mischief;
then she’ll give a couple of pig-roots and
sail away like a lamb! But she’ll bluff
anyone that doesn’t know her.”
Again the gate opened to admit a slim,
grey mare—no bluster this time. As she
trotted with disdainful action into the yard,
then sloped across to the bay, she gave the
impression that she had been at the game
often enough to cut out the fuss.
An old mare hustled by a pair of nervous
yearlings, joined the pair.
“That’s old Belle—she used to be a
great broncho-mare.”
, “What’s that?” inquired Margaret.
. “They don’t brand all the calves in yards
—sometimes it’s too far to drive them —
so they hold the mob on a level piece of
ground, and a couple of the boys on steady
horses ride through them, lasso the un-
branded calves, and drag them to the fire,
where they’re thrown and branded. They
call that ‘bronchoing.’ ”
Two more old-stagers joined the little
mob in the yard before them, and Peggy
was clearly disgusted.
“This is their bush yard—all the rejects,
and anything that’s going back to the pad-
dock for another spell.” She turned her
back on the window and flopped down on
the case.
“Hullo! What do you want, Charlie?”
She had caught sight of a dark form passing
the door.
The big blackfellow retraced his steps
and looked in.
“I go lookem out saddle.”
“When will they finish drafting?”
“Not long—close-up finish!”
“Right-oh! Don’t tell anyone we’re in
here.”
The broad features grinned widely. “Yoh
eye. Baal yabber.” And he slouched off
towards the station buildings.
In the meantime things were happening
in the main yard. Three or four gins
appeared, some in torn, faded, shapeless
frocks, fat and uninviting, and one in shirt
and greasy moleskins that had originally
been too long, so she had roughly altered
their length, with the result that one side
reached the ankle while the other stopped
half-way below the knee, bare brown feet
sticking out oddly.
The bush horses were driven to another
yard, gates secured; then from the lane a
dozen splendid horses ramped in—bays and
browns mostly, with one chestnut, raw-
boned, fiddle-headed, nonchalant, oblivious
to the curveting and snorting around him.
Peggy pointed him out. “That’s Gold-
top—we’ll have some fun when they get
on him.”
Margaret gazed at him. “Why, he looks
the quietest of the lot!”
“Yes, I know—it’s the quiet ones that
surprise most. Same with the men!” she
added sententiously. “Meanin’ no names.”
But Margaret affected not to hear the
last part. The bright, clear morning, the
strange noises and bustle, with the under-
current of coming excitement, had put a
sparkle in her eyes and made her very
good to look upon.
Peggy was still naming the horses, Mar-
garet engrossedly following, so neither
noticed a form enter the building till the
crunch of charcoal under an approaching
boot brought their startled heads around
together.
“Good morning! You’re up bright and
early!”
“Uncle Alan! You scared the life out of
me!”
“Thought I would find you here. I’m going
to start the boys off, then we’ll turn them
out of the yard. Ken’s going to ride Arrow
after that—he’s going down to Cattle Camp
to-day!” His tone was speculative, wonder-
ing how much they knew.
“Can’t you persuade him to take the
job, Uncle Alan?”
“Persuade him? He woke me up last
night and talked for an hour as if I knew
nothing of the matter. Sort of apologising,
he was. Thinking he was spoiling my
status!” The old man chuckled reminis-
cently. “So I sat up and gave him half
an hour straight off the bat, but even then
I could see he wasn’t convinced. But
wait a while,” he added quietly—“he’ll
come round to it! Now,” he went on
briskly, “if any of the blacks get climbing
over the rails and blocking your view, poke
them in the ribs with a stick, but don’t
make a noise. I’ve got to go and see to
things. See you later.”
“'Who’s riding Goldtop?” Peggy shouted
after him.
“Mad Harry!” he shouted back.
Peggy danced joyfully. Mad Harry was
a little man, middle-aged as the blacks
counted years, but his body and mind
seemed to have stopped growing when he
was a boy. He was not only simple, but
possessed of a queer obstinacy at times.
The superstitious blacks never interfered
with him, and in his moods he was often a
source of trouble to the white men of the
camp. He was a wonderful rider—would
mount any horse and stay there unmoved,
but withal he was hard on horses, insen-
sately cruel even, and he had to be watched
constantly. A rider, but never a horse-
man!
A young gin pulled her battered felt hat
down on her head as she slipped through
the rails and sidled up to a nervous brown
horse, bridle concealed behind her. After a
few escapes she got her caressing right hand
on his trembling shoulder, slid it gradually
up the neck—and the bridle was fixed
before the trembling horse realised it.
A blowsy old gin pushed a dirty, sweat-
stiffened saddle-cloth -through the rails, fol-
lowed by a big stock-saddle, and without
any more fuss the brown horse was saddled
and the crupper adjusted.
The young gin’s face seemed devoid of
expression; calmly she passed the reins over
the stiff ears and slipped quickly into the
saddle as the horse leaped wildly in the
air.
Margaret’s hand went to her breast, but
Peggy was crowing joyously. The horse had
bucked the instant the gin left the ground,
but she was there still—the big horse snort-
ing, grunting, bucking stiff-legged; the rider,
almost diminutive on his bulk, cheerily
banging him on the shoulder with a shrill
“Yuck-ai!” as he plunged fruitlessly around
the yard.
Presently he desisted and the gin slipped
nimbly to - the ground and led him out of
the yard to a high-pitched chorus of con-
gratulations from her own people, and
“Good-feller, Teeny!” from the whites.
A change in the programme was heralded
by the approach of Ken leading a big
upstanding brown . horse with a diamond-
shaped star on his forehead. The horse
moved closely at his heels, the beautiful
animal’s eyes wide with apprehension, roll-
ing to left and right. Peggy ducked back
quickly into her corner, drawing her com-
panion with her. “Look out,” she whis-
pered, “that’s Arrow. My, doesn’t he lead
well! Ken broke him himself—must have
caught him in the lane. Dash it, I did want
to see him do it!”
Iven walked across to where his saddle
straddled the rail, where he emptied the dead
ashes of his pipe on the head of a chubby
brown piccaninny adventuring underneath,
to the great amusement of the blacks. Pick-
ing up his saddle-cloth, he turned quietly on
the colt, who sat back on his legs a trifle.
The man affected not to notice, passed the
checked cloth over the back a few times
before settling it in place, then, picking up
the heavy saddle in his right hand, he
slipped it quietly on the flinching back,
caught the girth as it swung towards him,
and tightened it gradually. The horse
was leaning stiffly back on his legs like a
dog preparing to spring. His head was high
on the rigid neck, eyes showing white as
they stared back at the quiet, purposeful
movements. A slip, a hurried movement, a
wrench at the girth on the part of the man.
would have been excuse enough for the
horse to rid himself of the half-fastened
saddle. But no excuse was forthcoming. He
stood quivering, holding his wind, the tense
muscles on his ribs standing out in relief
as breastplate and surcingle were adjusted
—as the tail, rigid as a bar of steel, was
eased and the crupper fixed. Then the man
walked away, and the horse followed in-
stinctively, stiff-legged.
In the middle of the yard they saw Ken
tighten the reins on the arched neck and
slip a toe into the stirrup; so quick was
his next action that he was in the saddle
before they realised it.
The colt stood motionless for a second—
two, three. Margaret felt her heart thump-
ing feverishly. Everyone was silent. Then
he whirled like a flash, shot high into the
air, twisted, and came down stiff-legged,
grunting savagely. No sooner had he hit
ground than he shot up—nose and tail
meeting under the arched back. Round and
round, twisting, whirling one way and
another, trying to dislodge the man who sat
straight and immovable in the saddle, with
a quiet smile on his face.
Pouring with sweat, the colt paused in his
mad efforts, and at a signal .from Ken,
Jerry and Scotty, who had been watching
the performance closely, threw open the
gate of the round yard and the colt plunged
for the gap. Round and round the big
yard he bucked, but straight ahead this
time.
His rider shouted “Right-oh!” and the
outer erate was dragged open by an eager
blackfellow.
Straight as an arrow the horse dived for
the open, galloping madly, unable to move
this incubus on his back. At last the
watchers perched high on the top rail sig-
nalled his return, and they saw the horse
cantering quietly towards the station build-
ings, where the rider dismounted at the
little yard, and disappeared into the store.
Both girls were thrilled to the core; but
they had little time to discuss the per-
formance before Goldtop was driven into
the round yard, where he stood, ugly, bony,
lop-eared, thoroughly bored.
Only the eyes betrayed him. They
seemed to contract, to glow redly with
gathering passion, as he allowed the silent
blackfellow to bridle and saddle him. He
was still standing loose-jointed, head hang-
ing low, when Mad Harry placed a bare
foot in the stirrup. Things happened so
quickly after that that the girls could not
see whether he had gained the saddle or
was being pounded to death on the ground
by the lashing, plunging, mad horse. At
last they saw him, rocking back and for-
ward as the horse plunged and dipped. He
lacked the grace of Ken, who had sat
quietly, immovable almost, making the
feat appear easy. Still, Mad Harry stuck
grimly to the saddle while the horse alter-
nately bucked savagely or threw himself
at the rails in an attempt to crush the
rider’s leg.
Shouting something in his own language,
he deftly caught a stockwhip thrown from
the rails; then, doubling it under the horse’s
belly, he drove him into the big yard.
Quickly the girls switched to the other
window, to see the red devil give three tre-
mendous bucks, the doubled whip goading
him all the time. Suddenly he reared high
in the air, the excited chatter of the crowd
hushing to the “A-a-h” of indrawn breaths,
as. he balanced a moment, then fell back-
wards on his rider.
Margaret felt Peggy’s fingers bite into her
slim arms, but she was incapable of speech
or action. Two men had dropped into the
yard as the horse toppled back. He landed
sideways in the thick, soft dust of the yard,
scrambled quickly to his feet, and as he did
so he felt the sting of the whip under him
again.
Tom Sanderson, waiting tensely, vowed
he never saw daylight between rider and
saddle at any time. He turned away, spit-
ting in the dust, shaking his head. “They’re
well matched. Mad as snakes—both of
’em!”
Alan Gordon, wisely judging the girls
had seen enough for a time, appeared and
took them through the horses in the back
yards. Margaret was quiet with suppressed
emotion, but her eyes sparkled. Peggy was
affected differently, and laughed and chat-
tered so that the old head stockman could
hardly get a word in.
Margaret had never seen a finer lot oi
horses. She loved their big, workmanlike
build, the intelligence that looked from
their eyes, and the glorious sheen of then
coats. It was hard to believe that these
horses had never been groomed, had never
had a feed of oats or corn; their coats
had a bloom that her father’s corn-fed, well-
groomed horses never possessed in her old
southern Riverina home.
They passed into a smaller yard, and
Peggy bustled forward to the two horses
standing head to tail diligently swishing the
flies from each other’s eyes.
“Sunbeam! You cheeky little devil.
She stopped with her arm round the neck
of a fat chestnut pony. “Uncle Alan! How
on earth am I going to keep a saddle on
this barrel of fat?”
The old man chuckled. “Give her to
Mad Harry for a couple of days,” he sug-
gested. _ •
Peggy rose to the bait with a rush. Mad
Harry!” Her blue eyes flashed fire, and at
her tone the grey horse slipped away from
the chestnut. “Mad Harry! If he touches
a horse of mine, I—l’ll skin him!”
Then she realised that Margaret had
joined the old man in the laugh at her
expense, and, the fire gone in an instant,
she turned, grinning: “You old wretch!
I’ll make you pay for this!”
Margaret followed the grey horse till it
stopped and looked inquiringly back at her.
“Hullo, old man!” She smiled at him,
and he allowed her to run her hand caress-
ingly over his neck and head. He was not
a big horse, but beautifully proportioned,
an uncommon dappled grey that was neither
brown nor blue, yet had a trace of each in
its composition.
Alan Gordon watched her from the middle
of the yard, running his fingers through his
beard
“Is this one for me, Mr. Gordon?” she
called at a venture, hoping vaguely, yet not
daring too far.
Her eyes sought his over the neck of the
grey, and the beard wagged confirmation.
“Oh, you darling!” she cried.
“Are you talking to Uncle Alan or to
the horse?” queried Peggy.
“Both of them!” she flung back gaily.
“When, are we going for a ride?”
“I’ll have them shod to-day,” put in the
old man, and added after a pause: “Take
them out for a pipe-opener this evening
when it cools off a bit. You could go out
the Bluebush track a bit—■sun won’t be
in your eyes coming back.”
No one noticed the twinkle in the old
eyes as he made the suggestion, though
Peggy wondered why he didn’t give it its
usual name—the “Cattle Camp Track.”
CHAPTER VI.
Arrow, crusted with dried sweat —the
result of a long, hard day—threw up his
head, and his ears pricked forward in
interrogation as he reached the crest of a
long billow of the downs. The firm hand
on the bit cut short the challenging hail,
and Ken sat erect in the saddle, staring
at the two distant figures ahead.
“Sunbeam and my grey pony,” he mut-
tered, and decided to keep well behind the
party.
But he bargained without Sunbeam.
“That fat pig of a thing,” as Peggy
affectionately dubbed her mount, sniffing
the wind, wheeled sharply round and
neighed shrilly at the approaching horse-
man. The girls halted, and Ken, recognising
the futility of his move, let Arrow have
his head.
Peggy and her mount were a good pair.
In her divided skirt and white blouse she
looked rounder and plumper than ever.
But Margaret! Ken’s eyes opened wide
in frank admiration of the slim, lithe figure
sitting so easily in the saddle, straight-
backed and supremely confident, the per-
sonification of grace. When he remem-
bered the tinge of regret that had seized
him on surrendering Dawn, he decided that
the sacrifice was well worth it.
A horseman does not give up his favorite
hack to any Tom, Dick or Harry. Alan
Gordon said nothing when Ken diffidently
offered Dawn as a lady’s hack, but, like
the sailor’s parrot, he thought a lot. When
Peggy heard of it, she opened her eyes
and wondered, but decided to say nothing
—at present.
Margaret was in raptures over her mount.
She had never sat on a horse that moved
with such freedom as this one. She felt
she was travelling on air, with a sense of
unlimited power under her control —she only
had to wish, to make this wonderful horse
obey. And, above all, she knew that
heavenly sensation that comes to most
men—and to all women —when they realise
they are being seen to advantage.
She greeted Ken with an airy wave of her
hand and a welcoming smile that made
Arrow wonder at the sudden tension •ot
his rider.
Peggy’s mount was endeavoring to show
off before the colt, but only succeeded
in augmenting the lather on her bulging
flanks. _ .
“Did you ever see the like of this thing:
she began in an exasperated tone.


MUBfiSS*
Another Mig'hty J
Release of Bargains*
Pullovers
$ Sweaters
SALE I/i/
PRICE,
Here’s a Bargain! Heavy
quality fancy checked “V”-
neck Pullovers for men. A
seasonable snap!
SALE PRICE . . 14/-
(FORMERLY 19/6)
Men’s plain Grey, Navy,
or Fawn “V’-neck Coat
Sweaters. All wool. 34in. to
40in - SALE PRICE ..14/6
(FORMERLY 17/6)
é
ê
THE KIND OF HAT YOU WANT!
17 In < FOR « LV )
Australian Pure Fur Felt Hats for Men.
Favorite “Snap Brim” style in Light,
Mid or Dark Greys and new Fawns. A
Genuine Shapely Murdoch Model for
17/11
Silk-lined, of course!
5/11 GOLF SHIRTS
—and wonderful value even at usual price!
Woven stripe Zephyr Golf Shirts for Men,
neat colored stripes. Soft collar to match.
Sizes Min. to 1 7in. Sale Price
NOW
Bargains Galore/
12/6
13/6
11/6
63/-
Men’s Heavy-
weight Flannelette
Pyjamas.
SALE PRICE ..
Men’s Cream All-
wool Singlets.
SALE PRICE ..
Striped Cotton
Tweed Trousers
for Men.
SALE PRICE . .
M e n’s Covert
Gabardine Over-
coats. Fawn
“Raglans.”
SALE PRICE . .
til
7/6
ft/ll
54 1-
16/3
25/-
55/-
25/-
Men’s Tan Military
Cossacks. All
leather.
SALE PRICE ..
Cosy All - wool
Travel Rugs,
checked; 60in. x
80in. SALE PRICE
14/1
18/11
Youths’ Three-
piece Dark Grey
Tweed Sac Suits.
SALE PRICE . .
Boys’ Grey Tweed
Cotswold Suits,
with plain knee
knickers.
SALE PRICE . .
49/6
19/11
We Pay Freight.
If writing, address your letter to
Desk “R,” Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Bargain Book—FREE. Write for a copy.
m
\
park & GEORGE SI SYDNEY
The World’s Largest Men’s and Bogs’ Wear Store,’
Ken quizzically eyed the little mare.
“You could get a lot for her from the
boiling-down works,” he hazarded.
“Brute! You’re neither clever nor
original! Anyhow, how’s old Karl Muller?”
“Oh, he’s pretty right! Sent his love
to you.”
“His what?”
“Well, my German is not too good, so
I may be wrong.” , . .
Margaret swung in laughing from the
other side. “You certainly are popular,
Peg. But what have you been doing to
Arrow, Mr. Craig? He doesn’t look the
same horse that he was this morning.
As he glanced sharply at her, she realised
that she had given the show away, so with
a rueful glance at Peggy she continued:
“Peggy and I were at the yards this
morning—l hope you don’t mind. It has
been a wonderful day to me —and this
darling horse!” She bent and fondled the
arched neck. “He’s the most wonderful
thing I’ve ever been on.”
“I’m glad you like him.” Ken was not
quite sure whether Margaret had been told
of the grey’s ownership, and his questing
glance of appeal to Peggy was calmly
ignored by that young lady, who saw the
possibility of future sport.
Within a few weeks of her coming to
Corella Margaret and Dawn had explored
the network of tracks that radiated from the
station, and as she got the lie of the
country the programme was varied by short
trips across bush.
She loved the grey pony with the perfect
paces and the mouth like silk, and with the
delicate hands of the bom horsewoman she
and her mount were rapidly gaining that
knowledge of one another that goes to make
effortless pleasure of a long, hard ride.
At Tom Donaldson’s advice she had
never ridden Dawn after cattle, but in her
heart remained a longing—a determination
—to go out with the stockmen some day
and find for herself the lightning-like turns
that her horse was famed for.
Every evening they would come on long
lines of cattle stringing along the well-
beaten pads to water. The girl thrilled
as Dawn, ears alert, on his toes with expect-
ancy, would glance back at her, then at
the halted, suspicious cattle, sawing im-
patiently at the gently-restraining rein.
With difficulty she steadied him and inci-
dentally herself, from the joy of wild pur-
suit, as the mob wheeled with head and
tail high and galloped off at a pace utterly
at variance with her conception of “bovine.”
Almost shamefacedly she would meet
the horse’s backward glance of frank dis-
gust, but, bending forward, the slim hand
would caress the powerful, sloping shoulder.
“Hold on, Boy! We’ll show them, some
day!” . . , ,
Peggy was her mam companion, but
Scotty came a good second. That ingenuous,
red-haired youth, the butt of the stockman’s
eternal leg-pulling, was one of the few who
would talk freely on any subject, and from
him the girl gained glimpses of the men
as they really were behind the screen of
casual unconcern they showed to the out-
side world. .
She listened to his descriptions of his
home in distant Ayrshire—“where it only
stops raining to get ready for the next
shower.” She solemnly inspected photo-
graphs of his parents, and of a sister, an
attractive-looking girl a year or so older
than himself. “Her hair’s red, too—but
not carrotty like mine,” he added naively.
But Scotty’s conversation, no matter on
what subject it started, invariably veered
to the man who in his eyes stood as the
ultimate standard of all a man should be,
and Margaret glimpsed the Ken of their
first meeting—the keen, purposeful man
of action, hiding behind the mask of self-
effacing reserve.
“Did ye ever notice that stumpy finger
o’ Ken’s—first finger of his right hand?”
Scotty queried one day.
Margaret nodded assent; her eyes had
-been drawn to the disfigurement on their
drive to Carinda.
Scotty plunged into the story—a yarn
so fantastic that, in spite of the candid,
earnest eyes in the freckled face, she went
to Peggy for corroboration before she really
believed it.
They had camped that afternoon, he said,
at the Five Mile—“where Lignum Creek
runs into Happy Creek”—a big, wide water-
hole with old coolabahs along the. banks,
the loose soil washed away from their roots
till they looked like mangroves at low tide.
Ken was busy fixing anew fall to his stock-
whip, and old Larry Nolan (“he’s a mad
old chap, dirty and ragged; has a big mob
of horses running wild up north”) was poking
about under a coolabah, preparing to spend
the night with them. Alan Gordon and
Nolan didn’t hit it off too well—some old
quarrel, maybe; anyhow, Larry wasn’t too
popular round the camp.
Suddenly Larry let out a yell—“l’m bit!
I’m bit!”—and danced up and down the
Jerry stopped cutting wood, and raced
over with the axe, hit at something on the
ground, and yelled to Ken in his own lan-
guage (“Ken savvy’s the blacks’ yabber,
you know!”).
Scotty joined Ken, who was already on
his way to the old man.
“Let’s have a look!” says Ken.
“I’m done! I’m done!” yells bid Larry.
“It’s a flamin’ death-adder!”
è
To a Light-hearted Lady.
Only be not too sure, gay sorceress!
I know not, nor can you, what irony
Broods past love’s brief song’s broken ecstasy
That dies webbed thick with ancient silences.
Yet, love me now, love’s spendthrift
joyousness,
Where these your lips are but a memory
And you have long forgot, shall read for me
Riddles of sorrow that no song may guess.
My lips are yours; leave yet my heart its
dreams.
They have no part in you, nor you in these.
Fret not for fairy ways my feet must
press;
’Tis written thus—for me a grail that gleams
Moon-dim, star-haggard, lost mid sieging
seas;
For you love’s laughter and life’s loveli-
ness.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


ē
Pyrox Plugs are guaranteed
gas-tight and electrically
efficient —the fact that they
are made by Bosch precision
methods is your assurance of
the highest quality.
SSfiox
Sold by all
Garages and
Accessory Houses.
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE « p tv i )
Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. L
ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN.
CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL No. 3 ART UNION
DRAWN JULY 29, 1931.
EVERY TICKET TAKEN HELPS THE SICK LITTLE ONES.
ĕ
ė
Bring some sun-
shine into the lives
of the sick kiddies.
They need your
help.
Winter is here, and
finance is urgently
needed to fight
pneumonia and
bronchitis.
ę
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
His excellent form at Flemington last
Saturday enhanced the Grand National pro-
spects of Kendler, who firmed in favoritism
after winning the York Hurdle. Heavy going
did not prevent punters from accepting
cramped odds (9 to 4) about Eccles’s geld-
ing. Kendler conceded 301 b. to the Albury
mare Fernos, who was quietly supported
by some of the shrewd heads. After several
runners had fallen by the wayside and others
had knocked up, Kendler joined Fernos at
the last flight and beat her by a neck. Tre-
solaus was third; this son of Chrysolaus suf-
fered injury in last year’s contest. Catkin
did not accept for Saturday’s event, and
Mosstrooper was scratched on the course, as
12.4 would have been too crushing a burden
in the mud.
Tetcott, one of the jumping “finds” of the
season, may be dismissed from calculations
as a Grand National Steeplechase aspirant.
This grandson of Traquair is a brilliant
jumper and speedy, but at present lacks
the stamina for a journey of three miles and
one furlong. Sent out favorite for the Hope-
toun Steeplechase, he set a cracking pace,
but bungled two fences and dropped out half
a mile from home. It is to the credit of
Tetcott that he outjumped and outpaced the
spectacular Nightlark. Doubtless the mud
hampered R. M. Cutbbertson’s prad, but
obviously he does not stay. Giff, the winner,
is not engaged in the big cross-country race.
His trainer and part-owner, C. Quinn, was
the champion lightweight jockey of South
Australia 40 years ago. Giff stopped almost
Bert’ "What do you think of him,
gert ?”
qert: " He's a. beauty \»*
Bert:“Obstacles don't count,
l SWPV-Y SWL OVieR THm?
G|ERtWnD Does THE HORSE
\NITH YOU ? M
to a walk in the last 50 yards, and reached
the judge only half a neck in advance of
Ancient Mariner—a tough old battler who
may have to be reckoned with, in the
“National.” Yauntrim, who had ruled
favorite for the marathon tussle, did not
recede much through finishing out of a
place; the jockey reported that Vauntrim
had “slid all over the place.” The Cracks-
man, a stable companion of Bay of Biscay,
gained third honors rather impressively. He
has won hunt-club races in South Aus.
For the second successive occasion C. B.
Kellow made a disastrous plunge on the
Heroic gelding Pacific Flight. No fewer than
25 competed in the Princess Handicap; yet
3 to 1 was all that could be obtained about
Pacific Flight at barrier-rise. He finished
outside of the money. J. C. Roberts did his
follow bookmakers a favor by scoring with
a 33-to-l chance, Prohibition, who- squeezed
home in advance of Pelion (16 to 1). Te
Huon probably would have won if she. had
not hung out badly. The Tea Tray filly was
disqualified for third place in consequence
of Ray Wilson weighing-in 6oz. light. How
this occurred remains a mystery.
Princess Betty, a Maoriland-bred filly,
trained by Lou Robertson for wool-baron
A. T. Creswick, was backed off the card for
the Royal Handicap sprint. From 12 to 1
the daughter of Chief Ruler was supported
down to little more than a fourth of those
odds. The good thing came unglued. In a
punishing finish Princess Betty lost to
Blematic (8 to 1) by a long neck, with
Kaftan third and Spanish Galleon a very
close fourth. Mufti, the dam of Kaftan, ran
third in King Ingoda’s Melbourne Cup and
was essentially a stayer; yet her daughter is
noted for mere speed so fair. When Lou
Robertson pins the label of confidence to one
of his charges it usually gets there. He was
not far astray with Princess Betty, whose
merits as a galloper have now been exposed.
Another pleasing result from the view-
point of McShortodds was the Sandringham
Handicap victory of Glaive, a 16-to-l pop.
Favoritism rested between Lineage and Cecil
Godby’s candidate, Sir Roy, who has won at
Randwick. Whereas Lineage, like most of
Duncan’s mounts during the afternoon, was
unsighted, Sir Roy came home with charac-
teristic gameness, but entirely too late to
overhaul Glaive, who gave J. Stocker, an
apprentice, his first winning mount. Stocker
owes much to the tuition received in Adelaide
at the riding school established by S. W.
Ferry, one of the S.A.J.C. stipendiary
stewards. The concluding event went to
Larrabee. Second last to enter the straight,
Larrabee smothered the opposition. Frank
Dempsey was atop, and it reminded one of
his victories on Eurythmic.
* * * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Port Phillip Hurdle: Tresolaus; next,
Cockcrow.
Williamstown Steeple: Patriotic; next,
Cellist.
* * * *
There is generally a good sprinter in Wil-
liam Booth’s stables at Rosehill, and another
one came to light at Canterbury Park on
Saturday in Valmena, a bay filly, rising
four, by Valais —Encre. She was saddled
up for a division of the Trial Stakes, a
six-furlong race with special allowances, and
her win (at 5 to 2) was the easiest of the
day; also, easing up at the finish as she
was, she got over the distance in lmin.
15sec., the time recorded by Bavarde in
the first division of the Flying Handicap
after a desperate finish with the favorite
Trenette. Encre, a half-sister to the great
David, was useful in her day, and Valmena
is evidently going to take after her.
Auda (4 to 1) captured the second divi-
sion of the Flying Handicap, downing a
warm favorite in King Crow. A languid
race for third place resulted in Sir Duni-
nald deprivihg Cleave of the apparently
unwanted distinction. It was Auda’s third
success at Canterbury Park. H'e is (or
was) owned by Davis, of Phar Lap cele-
brity, but now races in the colors of Chris.
O’Rourke, his trainer.
Philippic (2 to 1) proved the best of a
poor lot in the 11-furlong handicap. Flinders
looked dangerous at one stage, but he got
on to the heels of another horse and dropped
back. In one way and another there was
a lot of interference during the day, and the
stewards were kept busy. Chrysotta (4 to
1) was taken out of this handicap and
reserved for the last race, two furlongs
shorter; his comfortable victory suggested
that he could have won either—perhaps both.
Every winner was well backed, so the notice-
able number of bookmakers who stood down
for the day had cause for self-congratulation.
* * * *
The A.J;C. had beautiful weather for the
first day of its June meeting. Greensea
(5 to 1), who has been racing very consist-
ently, showed the way home in the June
Stakes; Eulclare and Promptitude came late,
but not too late to make the finish interest-
ing. Promptitude, who was here selected,
with Greensea as second choice, returned a
fine div. on the place tote —£5 4s. for 10s.
Dark Isle (5 to 1) gave a good exhibition
of hurdling in the big event over the battens,
in which he led practically all the way.
Drake, the favorite, was second, but he
never looked like catching the English geld-
ing. Third was Gadray, a horse from the
country, who, a long last early, made up a
tremendous lot of ground from the mile post
or thereabouts.
For the second day at Randwick: —
Flying Handicap: Promptitude; next,
Eulclare.
A.J.C. Steeplechase: Indicate; next,
Gadray.
Winter Stakes: Inducement; next,
Troilus. •
Exeter Handicap: Magnetic; next, Vigne.
# * ❖
Royal Smile’s showings in Melbourne and
Sydney convinced many racegoers that the
daughter of Sir Dighton was a light of other
days. Her owner, L. V. Nicol. was, never-
theless, confident that she would come good
again. The mare justified his faith in the
Brisbane Cup, in which, backed (mostly by
Nicol) from twenties to half those odds, she
was a good winner from Rowladdee, a 50-to-l
shot, with Sydney’s hope Inducement a fail-
third. Royal Smile ran the 2 miles in 3min.
26isec. Fourth was Great Idea, Rivoli’s
best son, who won a couple of good races
at the meeting for Mrs. J. H. Barnes, wife
of the breeder.
* * * *
The much-travelled Kidaides has been a
long time returning to the form he showed
when he won the Warwick Farm Autumn
Cup and was placed in the Australian
and Sydney Cups; but O’Dea’s patience
with him -was rewarded at Victoria Park
(the Adelaide course of that name)_ on
Saturday. Favorite for the A.R.C. Birth-
day Cup, Kidaides carried Bst. 71b. to a
meritorious victory (his second in that
particular race), being followed home by
St. Frederick and Suzumi, who found 9st.
a bit too much for her over the journey.
Pcrcival was back in the saddle on Kidaides;
he has ridden the old stager in most of his
races in three States.
* * * *
“Knavesmire”: This year’s Derby was won
by a warm favorite in. Cameronian, owned by
J. A. Dewar, who is well known in Australia.
Cameronian, who started at 7 to 2, won by
three-quarters of a length from Sir John
Rutherford’s Orpen, and Sandwich, belong-
ing to Lord Rosebery, and is the first
favorite to catch the judge’s eye since 1927.
The winner, by Pharos from Una Cameron,
was ridden by the veteran Fred Fox, who
last year headed the list of winning jockeys.
Though he has been riding for over 25 years,
this is his first Derby. As Cameronian
already has the Two Thousand to his credit,
he should go very near to the coveted “triple
crown” by taking the St. Leger at Don-
caster in September.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ambrose Palmer (11.7) and American
Herman Bundren (11.6 i) fought a return
15-round battle at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday, Palmer winning easily on points.
Palmer belabored his opponent with both
hands, and such was his stamina that he kept
these tactics up for 15 rounds. Bundren showed
himself a master of ringcraft, but Palmer
never let him take the initiative. The Ameri-
can tried to mix it during the two conclud-
ing rounds, but made little impression on his
opponent.
The fight at Leichhardt last Friday came
to an unsatisfactory end, for .Tack Carroll
(10.61) was disqualified for fouling Wally
Hancock (10.5|). Carroll could or would
not get going early, and Hancock fought
much more energetically until the odds-on
favorite loosened up in the sixth and dropped
his man with a left that landed on the
trunk line. The bell rescued Hancock, but
he was again floored by another left down-
stairs in the seventh. This punch was
apparently inches above the previous one,
but the referee ruled it was low and Carroll
lost on a foul. Hancock showed no signs of
suffering on being carried .to his corner.
Adelaide veteran “Pud” Segar (11.2) gave
young Bob Thornton (11.2) some anxious
moments in the first round of their fight
at Sydney Stadium. A nicely-timed right
put Segar down for nine in the next round,
however, and when he was dropped again
immediately the referee decided on Thornton.
Footbrawl
Chiefly through the strenuous efforts of
Harry Van Assche, who himself went into
the darkness through a motor accident only
two years ago, Melbourne dropped all senior
football on Saturday to stage a game between
League and Association, funds to go to
the blind. It was a whole-hearted effort:
players, gatekeepers, officials,! all worked
gratis, and even the free list was suspended.
The only expense was a trifle of £2O for
insuring the players. Steady rain all Fri-
day night and most of Saturday made the
ground a quagmire and reduced the attend-
ance to 16,500 and the gate to £7BO. But those
in charge had had the forethought to insure
against 10 points of rain between 11 a.m.
and 3 p.m., and as 28 points fell they collect
£l5OO in addition. The game was lit up occa-
sionally by a few bright flashes. The Assoc,
boys adapted themselves quicker to the con-
ditions, and at half-time owned 23 points to
the League’s 17. On resuming the latter set a
swifter pace, overwhelmed the opposition,
and at lemon-time had collected 63 points,
while the others stood still. The bell found
the League with 89 points to the Ass’n’s 28.
The best player, on the day, was Dan
Nicholls, an abo. from Tangala, who has
played with Northcote (Ass.) since 1927.
After him Rumney, of Collingwood, and
McCormack, of the Richmond Tigers, were
most reliable.
$ * if. *
The young N.S.W. Rugby League team
put it all over the dreaded Queenslanders
in the first half of their opening match at
Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday, the
Blues leading 24-2 at lemon-time. The
tourists pulled themselves togethp.r in the
second spell and soon had added 15 to their
score. The Welshmen came again, how-
ever, and a sustained Blue attack in the
closing stages saw the winners’ points
hoisted to 31, a lead of 14. Ten tries were
scored in all, 7 for N. S. Wales and 3 for
Queensland, the latter also kicking four
goals. They were outpointed in this depart-
ment by the opposition, Brown (5) and
skipper Owen (4) taking advantage of
almost every opportunity,
jjj $ $
The Rugby codes held high carnival in
Brisbane and Sydney on Saturday. The
N.S.W. Rugby Union side, after beating
Queensland easily in the first game last
week, was all out to draw, 18-18, at Bris-
bane, the rebuilt Bananaland team staging
a strong finish ini the last 20 minutes, _ after
the Welshmen were 18-11. Sydney Uni. gave
the M.L. Universities side the go of its life
at Sydney Uni. Oval, the two teams pegging
level with 11 all. Indeed Sydney had hard
luck not to win, for a couple of good oppor-
tunities in the closing stages were missed.
Manly scored a convincing win over the pre-
miers, Randwick, at Manly Oval. It was
a fast and brilliant game, the Manly for-
wards having the better end of the stick,
though the back division, the best the club
has had for years, also did great things.
Closing scores were 23 (5 tries, one con-
verted, and 2 penalties) to 9 (1 try and 2 p.
goals). Manly, at the end of the first half-
of the season, heads the premiership and
looks like staying there. Other results were:
Eastern Suburbs 22, Northern 14; and
Western Suburbs 24, Drummoyne 6.
The British open golf championship has
gone to another American, in Tommy
Armour. Certainly this one had the grace
to be born in Scotland, and learned his golf
there. , His card for the 72 holes stroke was
296. Jurado, the Argentino pro., was second,
a stroke worse than the winner, though
he started the fourth round 7 strokes up .on
the Seottish-Yank, and needed only to sink
a 9ft. putt to tie at the last hole.


At the word<GO
A touch of the Start-
er and the engine
leaps into life.
j*rr\
c.
J!
'2Z
a>
SB
■Nil
n/.. .*
s
That’s the way a Dag-
enite works .. pouring
out generous power
. . . stirring the most
stubborn engine. Two
famous British battery
firms have joined all
their resources, put to-
gether all their know-
ledge to produce
DAGENITE Batteries;
now produced in
Australia.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, Box 71, G.P.0., Melbourne
DACE HITE
BATTERIES
0.2-
Footbrawl
The Maori land Universities team won its
second match with Sydney Uni. with even
greater ease than the first, final scores being
35-21 The visitors rarely made mistakes,
while the home side seemed to specialise m
them at times. The home backs were tie-
quently out of position and the clever tactics
of the tourists frequently left their opponents
standing still. Once or twice Sydney showed
some good combination, but the Blacks 8a\ e
them few opportunities to develop then-
game. Hemingway played Ins usual deter-
mined game among the Sydney backs, and
scored one sterling try. Back and forward
the visitors, certainly the best M.L. Cm.
side we have seen here, could hardly oe
faulted.
.1: * * *
“Bowen Bridge” : The Bananalandors were
sadly disappointed at the convincing defeat
of their Rugby Union side in the opening
match with N.S.W., but cheered up con-
siderably when the visitors only scraped home
from Toowoomba by a whisker. The Darling
Downs town has always furnished a strong
football contingent to any code. Its lads
were 11-10 at half-time, having had much
the better of the play. Maintaining
their lead up to the last minute, they looked
home and dried, and even a penalty at an
awkward angle did not disturb the home bar-
rackers. However, Alec Ross landed a mira-
culous goal, and as the whistle went the
stunned spectators realised they were in the
cart, the scores standing 13-11.
s|; * * *
“Five Ways”: Queenslanders watching
the recent performances of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union team in Bananaland were especially
interested in Neville Wentworth, who jumped
from the East Sydney club into the inter-
state side the first season after his return
from England practically unheralded. He
got his Rugby Blue at Oxford and played
regularly for some seasons for the famous
Blacklieath club. A fine rucking forward,
excelling in all departments of the game,
Wentworth, a descendant of the. famous states-
man, will be unlucky if he misses the Aus-
tralian tour of Maoriland at the end of the
season.
% * * *
“Tyke”: After much consideration and
viewing of the financial position from every
angle, the English Rugby League has
accepted the Australian invitation to visit
this country next season. The hard-headed
Yorkshire and Lancashire men who run the
English professional code have evidently
made up their minds that there is still some
money to be got out of Australia. As an
indication of confidence in this country’s
financial future the decision is of consider-
ably greater value to the understanding than
the widely-advertised opinions of all the
experts, self-appointed or otherwise.
“Boot”: There must be something in the
Rugby League atmosphere tending to acri-
mony. The Sydney League especially is
always trailing its coat and inviting the
Cricket Ground trustees or some country
league or another to tread on the tail of it.
The latest turn-up is with the trustees of
Wentworth' Park. The trustees insist on
putting their own employees on the turn-
stiles. The league is just as determined to
have its men on the job. As neither side
will give way, the league has withdrawn all
matches from the ground.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Bill Tilden is no
blushing violet when it comes to putting a
value on his services. If he comes to
this country alone he wants 60 per cent, of
gates less tax, with a guarantee of £2400.
If he brings two other players he asks a
guarantee of £3500, which gives a good idea
of William’s estimate of his own worth as
compared with that of his two mates.
* ❖ ❖ • ❖
“Top Spin”: As anticipated, the United
States wiped the floor with the Argentine
in the Davis Cup argument between the
North and South American zones, winning
all five matches, with only Shields and Wood
representing the Yanks for both singles and
doubles. Nothing daunted, the ’Tinos are
going on to Europe, where they will play
before going back to Buenos Ayres, the tour,
of course, including Wimbledon, which kicks
off on the 22nd of this month.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis authori-
ties are still pondering over the question of
sending away a Davis Cup team next year.
Already Honolulu and the West Coast of
America have written asking the team, if it
goes abroad, to drop in on the road to
Europe. Norman Brookes, at present in
Japan, will be in Honolulu later, and he has
been asked to make tentative arrangements.
* * ❖ *
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sturt”: Golf in Adelaide is brightened
by the opposition Ivooyonga can now find
for “Royal” Adelaide. In a recent thorough
test the younger club won 11 matches to 7,
YV. S. Rymill beating Legh Winsor 4 and 2,
and Ross Sawers taking Dr. Nott to the
19th.
ijs jji v sjc
“Hotham”: Victoria’s annual champion-
ship events for boys and girls provided some
interesting golf. The girls’ event, played on
the Kew course, found G. Rowe, of St.
Catherine’s School, the winner after a tie
with H. M. Strutt, of Clyde. Both returned
a card of 99 for the 18 holes of stroke play.
In the play-off over 6 holes, the St.
Catherine’s girl got home with a score of 30
to 32. Australia is full of he-golfers who
would give their plus-fours to equal the girls’
first-round average of 5.5 per hole. In the
boys’ competition, R. G. Wallace,’ of Gee-
long Grammar, won the undet-10 class title
with 81 —an average of 4.5. The under-16
winner, W. Gruth, of Melbourne Grammar,
was home with 85. Good golf this.
* *
“Brassey”: The entries for the N.S.W.
amateur golf championships, , which open with
the foursomes on the Royal Sydney links at
Rose Bay this week-end, show that Ma State
men will make up the bulk of the personnel.
Ivo Whitton, of Victoria, will not turn out,
which is to be regretted after the brilliant
form he showed recently in Queensland.
Another star missing is H. Hattersley, win-
ner of the Australian amateur title last year.
A. Black, the Maoriland Kirk-Windeyer Cup
rep., will, however, add a spice of variety
to the proceedings. For the singles, the
authorities have made a serious mistake by
omitting to ‘‘seed’’ the draw. One re-
sult is that Fawcett and Black will be set
to knock each other out on the opening day,
June 20. S. A. Keane and W. R. Dobson,
both N.S.W. K.-W. Cup reps., will also
clash on that date. The opening will be
match play over 18 holes, with 36 holes for
the final and semi-final. Eric Apperly, the
evergreen, is the holder of the title.
* 4' S'
“Carry”: Recent Bulletin references to
the long-distance golf craze remind me that
one ingenious bird started from Brisbane the
other day to play his way to Adelaide By
way of adding interest to his feat the player
wears a mask, and is supposed to be under a
vow not to remove it until he hits the Holy
City. How he is going to shave or wash his
face has not been explained. He started in
Brisbane’s main street with a putter at
9 a.m. and, though traffic is at its peak at
that hour, vanished into the suburbs without
any injury to anyone being reported. When
he takes the open road, of course, he will
have recourse to drivers and irons. The
Tweed River promises to be his first serious
bunker.
* * 4= 4'
“Fluffier”: Sydney will see the Australian
golf championships this year, the meeting
beginning on August 22 on the Australian
chib’s course at Kensington. The open cham-
pionship begins on the 27th, and will be 72
holes of stroke play, though only the first
60 players will carry on after 36 holes have
been played. The amateur and professional
events will be run in conjunction with the
open, the leading 16 in each section qualify-
ing to meet in match play. Only amateurs
with a stroke handicap of one or less are
eligible for the open, but there is no restric-
tion on professionals.
4s 4= 4' 4=
“Canny Lad”: Willoughby (N.S.W.)
Council has decided to lay out a golf
course in Northbridge Park. The move is
a wise one. The increasing army of golfers
in and about Sydney continually do cry
for fresh areas where they may indulge in
divot-digging. What a public course means
to a centre which commands a large popu-
lation is seen at Moore Park. Last _ year
over 100,000 players figured on the municipal
links, the cash takings topping £BOOO. Moore
Park, because of the congestion and other
drawbacks, is avoided by many players who
would jump at the chance of getting a game
in a more secluded area.
5-J sj: #
“Manakau”: Auckland recently rejoiced
over the opening of its new golf course on
North Shore. The thing is over 6000 yards
long, and the playing tees are so placed as
to permit their withdrawal further back if
increased distance is found to be necessary.
The course follows the usual trend of modern
golf architecture in that it is specially
designed to avoid the possibility of playing
out of bounds. Not every golfer will
agree with this idea. Nothing promotes accu-
racy, the very keystone of golf, so much as
the fear of the penalties attaching to driving
out.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: America’s biggest motor race,
the Indianapolis 500, was run off last week,
the winner being Louis Schneider, a local
driver, with Fred Frame, of Los Angeles,
second. Schneider took 5 hours 10 minutes
and 28 seconds for the run. Arnold, who won
last year, had hard luck, for he was well iu
the lead 100 miles from the finish when a col-
lision cracked up his car. There was an
attendance of 150,000, so the gate must have
been gratifying.
4: 4= 4t 4:
“Differential”: Malcolm Campbell has
changed his mind again. A few weeks ago he
was talking of going for a new speed record
in Maoriland, but has now announced he will
try to turn the trick at Daytona Beach
next November, in spite of the trouble he
had with that tricky speedway on his last
visit. He has also been talking of a wonder-
ful new speedway he has discovered in the
Sahara desert, but considers it would be
Impossible to race on it owing to the mirage.
It is hard to see how this would affect
matters. Mirages always keep a jump
ahead of the observer, and even Campbell’s
Bluebird has no hope of ever running into
one.
4= 4' 4= 4'
“Bunk”: Something new in motor tours
cropped up when two Sydney women departed
on a round-Australia jaunt. One journal must
have sent its social reporter, for there was
a gushing description of the attire worn by
the pair, consisting of “grey shirts and
breeches with green ties and berets,” all
matching the coloring of the car. By the
time the trip is over the matching will pro-
bably be even more perfect. The party is
armed with a rifle, shotgun, revolver and
automatic, so out-back pedestrians would do
well to give it a wide berth ; the trip will
take the adventurers through Queensland,
across the N.T., and so down to Perth and
thence home. The damsels scoff at possible
danger. All the same, it exists. Their way
is strewn with the broken bottles and empty
tins of the hundreds who have followed this
route before them, and they will need to
look after their tyres.
5jC 'i* '•* V
“Corniche”: An unusual road race is the
Monaco Grand Prix. It is a 200-mile go,
and the route is through the streets of
Monaco, which are cleared of all traffic for
the annual event. The circuit is only about
three and a half miles long, but about 1000
hairpin-bends have to be negotiated during
the 200 miles. There was a big entry for
this year’s Prix, including a strong team
from Britain. The French champion, Louis
Chiron, won, the best British performance
being eighth place, which was filled by Penn
Hughes in another Bugatti.
“Kick Starter”: Next week will see the
Isle of Man Tourist Trophy races run
off, with at least three Australian riders
taking part. In addition to Stewart Wil-
liams and Dave Brewster, the official repre-
sentatives, A. Simcock, the Victorian, who
recently tried to break Henne’s speed record
near Budapest, will appear as a lone hand.
Like Williams, he has had previous experi-
ence of the course ; he rode with the Sun-
beam team in the English T. T. event in
1929.
“Sprocket”: Though he finished last in
the Paris-Bordeaux cycling race, for which
lie was a strong favorite, Opperman was
only three minutes behind the winner, the
Belgian Van Rysselberghe. And only six
finished, the Belgian getting over the 360
miles in 18 hours 1 minute. The Victorian was
riding on his own, none of his mates turn-
ing out, so it is probable that the others,
all Continentals, worked together in making
the pace for one of their own number.
* * *
“C. 8.”: Colin Kerby, a nine-year-oldster
who acquired fame recently by cycling on
his own from Albert Park to Ballarat and
back (146 miles), comes of a precocious
family. His father enlisted for Armageddon
at 18. One of his uncles was killed at the
Gallipoli landing and another in France; a
third was severely wounded. The last-named,
E. J. Kerby, was for a few months M.H.R.
for Ballarat.
Miscellaneous
“Hamilton”: The heavy Sydney crew
walked off with the inter-university eight-oar
race for the Oxford and Cambridge Cup on
the Brisbane River, heading Melbourne by
nine lengths, with Queensland a close third.
There were no other starters, and the good
time for the three miles of 17min. 40 4-ssec.
was posted. This is the 40th race for the
pot. Sydney and Melbourne having taken 15
each. Adelaide lias won 4, Westralia 3 in
4 starts, Queensland 2 and Tassy a single.
*** . . *
“Spike”: The inter-university sports at
Hobart ended in a handsome win for Mel-
bourne, the Yarrasiders scoring 55 points to
21 by the runner-up, Sydney. Adelaide and
Hobart pegged level with 6 points each. West-
ralia and Queensland being absentees. The
outstanding event of the meeting was a mile
spin bv the Tasmanian Barwick. He reeled
the distance off in 4min. 23 4-ssoc. putting
up a new Tassy and inter-uni. record.
Dr. Colin Stewart, who died in Sydney
last week, was one of the finest athletes
Sydney Grammar School has turned out. He
was particularly smart over the hurdles and
won the 120-yard Australasian championship
at Sydney in 1905. He took part in a curious
happening at the 1908 meeting at Hobart,
when he and the Victorian J. L. Davis tied
for the hurdle event, and could not be
separated in the run-off. His time of 16sec.
for his favorite 120 yards over the sticks,
made in 1908, stood as a N.S.W. record for
20 years.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk” : The amateur billiard cham-
pionship at Adelaide ended in a win for a
local player, H. L. Goldsmith, who beat the
Queenslander, L. Sakzewski, by 210 points.
The runner-up acquired merit by knocking
out L. Hayes, the Empire champion, in the
second round of the tournament. Hayes will
be defending his title in Sydney shortly,
among his opponents being the two English-
men, Steeples and Lee. The Arthur Walker
Trophy, which goes with the Empire title, is
worth winning. The donor is a well known
South African who has billiards for his
hobby.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: W. H'orrocks, the Westraliau
cricketer who was given a trial for Australia
in Sydney prior to the Chapman invasion,
has been asked to hop over to Lancashire,
with a view to a try-out for the county
eleven. As he was born under the Red Rose,
he will need no period of probation, if his
form is good enough. Lancashire is paying
all exes., both ways if necessary. Ll'orrocks
made 75 n. 0., 31 and 76 in three hits against
Chapman’s men in Perth, and is an undeni-
ably fine batsman. If he makes good he will
have two other Aussies in McDonald and
Bennett, of N.S.W., to keep him company.
# * * #
“Shrewsbury”: Merritt and Cromb, who
have bowled so well for the All Blacks in
England, were in the Christchurch High
School eleven and now play with the same
club in Christchurch, where they are partners
in business. Merritt is a googly bowler, and
up to the Middlesex match —M.L.’s first loss,
by the way—had taken 46 wickets. Cromb,
who was selected as a batsman, bowls right-
hand medium, and had bagged 20 wickets.
# * * *
“Ride Off”: Back in his native N.S.IV. —
he was born at Singleton—after 28 years’
absence, is Captain R. R. Smart, a prominent
English polo-player. He figured against the
Ashton brothers during their English tour, and
is eloquent on the subject of Australian ponies,
being of the opinion that even the handicap
of distance should not hamper a flourishing-
trade in them with the old country. The
game in England is very exclusive, the only
spectators permitted by the principal clubs
being their members, an attitude which has
prevented the game being generally popular.
* * *
“Booroodabin”: Queensland bowlers are
already working up form for the Australian
tourney at Brisbane in August. The people in
charge of the show are eager for a record
attendance, and special appeals are being
issued to all the States, it being stressed that
the cilmate, even in winter, makes it possible to'
work up a thirst without over-exertion. Event-
ualities of this and other descriptions are
being liberally provided for, and visitors will
be given the time of their lives. Entries close
on July 11.
* * * *
“Splash”: The depresh has not killed off
all the optimists. Leading the van is the
N.S.W. Swimming Association, which has
announced its intention of asking the Lang
Government for a money grant to tide it over
its financial troubles. The plea is made that
the Surf Life-saving Association and the
Royal Life-saving Society are doing humani-
tarian work for the community and are there-
fore deserving of a “dash” from the Treasury.
The request is novel, but even if there was
any cash available it is doubtful if the Gov-
ernment would create what might prove a
dangerous precedent. Suppose the amateur
cricketers, the Rugby League and others who
indulge in sport for the cash of it hopped in !


Under 5
' Royal
vintasre 1920
ToH.M.
Kind
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
c MampachC
Q»ariesiieidsicc^
“MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
A MUSICAL INNOVATION FOR SYDNEY
EVERY SUNDAY AT 8.30 P.M.
PROMENADE ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS
AT
Bhe WENTWORTH
Starring Engagement:
LEON HALE AND HIS HUNGARIAN BAND
(20 Artists in one Brilliant Ensemble)
Hear the stirring Hungarian Dances, Gipsy Airs, Rhapsodies, etc., played in their
incomparable style by these artists. Hear the Classics interpreted, by this famous
combination.
Supper at 2/- is the only charge for these delightful evenings.
For reservations, ’phone 8W1361.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON TEA, 2/6, 3.30 to 5.30.
Dance to the strains of Lionel Hart’s Syncopators.
BRITISH WASH RIBBONS MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
The world-famed Washing Ribbons
made by Cash’s, of Coventry, England,
are exactly the same as produced by
Cash’s in Australia. For all kinds of
Lingerie and Shoulder Straps, in many
dainty shades, guaranteed fadeless. Ask.
your Draper.
Names]
1 TO MARK ALLTjNEN/ f
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
j e vMW/ii,»i
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
for Name Style Circular to
J &J.CASH, W£AV *ro T coX I T B
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
' _ .
J 2Z TCES
?-'6
S/'
3/6
H
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
“And now, if you will pardon my back, I
will sing to my friends on the—er —dresser,”
said Peter Dawson to the audience in the
body of the Town Hall on Saturday.. Turn-
ing, he sang beautifully to the tightly-packed
tiers of humans on the steps of the, organ
gallery. But who, after, that, I ask you, will
ever think of it i; as anything but a dresser?
The Hambourg-Dawson concert left all
recent concerts two' laps behind in the
matter of crowds. The discomfort of the
listeners was even more acute than usual
through the rows of chairs being pushed
closer than ever. Many glances were directed
at Nan Garvan, who suggested a Russian
countess (out or Oppenheim) with her fine
eyes, her furs and her rose-spattered black
frock. Slim Mrs. Hambourg, in her sables
and black and white chiffons, and Mrs. Peter
Dawson, in platinum laces and ermine, were
worth a second look. And Mrs. E. J. Davy
framed her pink and whiteness in a snow-
white fur collar, and was otherwise a glitter
of rose and green lame. With the Governor
were Mrs. Lane-Poole, Miss Crowdy and
official secretary Harry Budge with his small
wife.
A link with the gay Sydney days when
Lord Hampden was Governor, and society
consisted of a little clique whose members
all knew one another, was snapped when
Mrs. Reginald Vaughan died last week. She
was Mrs. Bob Prendergast, inseparable
friend of Mrs. Willie Mitchell and Mrs. Bur-
dekin in the old days; the trio ruled
N.S.W.’s fin de sieclc little world of bicycles
and bustles between them. After the death
of her first husband Mrs. Prendergast. mar-
ried a son of Colonel Vaughan, of the famous
family which for generations has given most
of its sons and daughters to the Church. She
was a beautiful and witty woman in her
heyday, and as beloved in England as she
had been in Australia, to Which she returned
to die.
Ruth Bedford’s whimsical thriller “Mur-
der Next Door” is attracting the attention
of some theatrical personages as well as
of friends, pressmen and countrymen.
The show has among its characters the de-
lightful Mrs. Cazabon and her young daugh-
ter, both Norahs —the former before her
marriage trod the boards professionally as
Norah Delaney. Other nice girls in the
cast are Jane Connolly and Ruth’s sister.
Ruth has a gifted pen in all three media of
poetry, play and novel. With Dorothea
Mackellar she wrote “The Little Blue Devil,”
and when she was in England last year her
“Fairies and Fancies” had quite a success.
But perhaps her proudest memory is that,
arriving in London on a Tuesday, she posted
two articles to “Punch” on Wednesday, and
was correcting the proofs on Friday.
The Corpus Christi procession drew
thousands to Manly last Sunday, Flappers
in jaunty berets; grandmothers in sober,
decent blacks and browns, with their
daughters and grandchildren; old men,
young men made that long, hot ascent from
the boat to the Stone Palace on the hill;
and along the way the streets were lined
with waiting cars. In the rather unkempt
grassy grounds that surround if, at first
glance it seemed that the angels had let
down some of the blue cloths of Heaven, for
the eye caught the gleam of ethereal blue
wherever it turned. But this blue presently
resolved itself into the cloaks of the Children
of Mary—hundreds and hundreds of them,
each society led by its particular blue and
silver banner. Blue cloaks, blue sky, blue
Pacific, the solemn chant of prayers, the
swinging censers and scattering of flowers
made a memorable accompaniment as the
procession of the Host circled the grounds.
In the great doorway of the Palace rose an
altar glittering with snowy linen, with silver
and with high brass candlesticks, and from
these steps presently the Benediction was
given. High above bunting fluttered about
the grey stone face of the building. And at
one end flew the immemorial yellow and
white flag of the Vatican.
Lucille Bruntnell has probably more letters
from A. A. Milne, Christopher Robin's
creator, than any other person in Australia.
Lucille fell under the magic of Christopher
and Winnie the Pooh when she was studying
dramatic art in London, and on her return
determined to interpret it to the young of
heart in her own country. She is now about
to give her fifth and most comprehensive
Milne programme in, the Savoy Theatre at
the end of this month. Lucille, who has
the aid of a huge Teddy * (Winnie) in these
recitals, will have.the stage set on this occa-
sion as Christopher Robin’s nursery, with
large stencils of his pet animals around the
walls. Perhaps one of the nicest backgrounds
the Milne poems have ever known was in
Katoomba, when the little house at' Pooh
Corner stood among leafy saplings, and logs
and leaves about the stage cave a woodland
air.
A much-travelled woman, just back from
Europe, whispered the other day that as a
nation we might take a lesson in selling from
the Parisian shopkeeper. Hardly is a Avoman of
fashion settled in her hotel when her tele-
phone is busy with offers of service from the
best frock-builders. The question is: “Will
Madam allow us to send some frocks for her
to look at ?” Madam perhaps’ replies that
her wardrobe is complete. “That does not
matter, Madam. It would give us such
pleasure to display our models to Madam’s
discernment. At what hour could we send
a mannequin to Madam’s hotel?” Madam
names an hour, perhaps in the evening, and
to the tick the mannequin with her little
case arrives, and tries on its contents with
perfect amiability, which remains uncracked
if Madam decides not to buy anything. “Oh,
Avell, Madam will be in Paris again, and then
we will have something fresh to display”,...
and with a smile the'mannequin departs.
Ten years ago, whenever this city decided
it needed amateur theatricals, a pageant,
or a ball for some pet charity or society,
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was invariably approached
to organise an army of workers, sketch out
a plan of campaign and lead onward to the
cheque of swollen proportions. But now that
Mrs. Bertie spends her years in Italy, ex-
Justice Gordon’s lady finds herself pushed
into the position of leader of the show stunts.
And in spite of hard times, with practically
no irrigation of liquid assets, the small
bright-eyed lady comes home laden with
booty. A short time ago the Industrial Blind
Institution in William-street was the richer
by over £lOOO through the effort's of a com-
mittee over which she presided; - and last
Aveek a cheque for nearly £7OO was handed
into the Rawson Institute by means of the
two old-clo’ shops run recently under her
management. Not bad business for a fort-
night.
Burdckin House, that nice old home of
past gentility, suitably enough shelters
the Women Pioneers’ Club. The name calls
up memories
of men and
women who,
whatever poli-
tical blunders
they fell into,
faced the dan-
gers and pri-
vations of
the early days
of our colonis-
ation with in-
irepid hearts
and a fervent
faith in the
coun t. r y of
their adoption.
Such memories
of their fore-
bears prompted
the formation
of this club;
the president,
M rs. W. A.
Lingham (the
subject of this Dayne picture), is a great-
great-granddaughter of that Colonel John-
ston who arrived in Australia with the First
Fleet as A.D.C. to Governor Phillip. The
lady, who is a cousin of Hope Johnston,
founder of the Men’s Pioneer Society, is a
decorative as well as an amiable president,
and the club is one of the city’s happy
meeting-places.
Never again will George Collingridge of
the clear blue eye and the mop of white hair
climb The Bulletin stairs to talk to this
Avriter about his new books or woodcuts, his
classes at Miss McCabe’s school at Lind-
field, the future for Esperanto, the days
when he studied under Corot (he was the
great artist’s only pupil) or those when he
fought with the Papal Zouaves against Gari-
baldi. For last week George Collingridge,
aged 84, died at the Coast Hospital. He was
a vivid talker and his word pictures of
other - days always gripped the attention.
Sharp and clear you saw iiim and the brother,
Alfred, who marched beside him, blue-coated
and red : sasbed, through those glittering
white towns of the Papal States. In one of
these little towns, with its gleaming white
walls, Alfred was buried- But George, whose
woodcuts and paintings had already won
him some success, came to Australia and was
one of the founders of the Royal Art Society.
He was one of the artists who worked on the
old “Picturesque Atlas,” and was among the
first engravers for The Bulletin. Then it
Avas that he struck up a friendship with Wil-
liam Macleod. George Collingridge spoke
French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, and
did much research work among the literature
of the early navigators of the Pacific and
the Indies. He was a Fellow of the Royal
Historical Society and of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, and among his other
honors he was a Knight of the Portuguese
Order of Santiago.
The Mrs. Gwyn Griffiths whom a recent
cable credited with picking up a genuine
Gainsborough for £l2 10s. is the Gwynneth
Griffiths who many years ago did a little
newspaper work in Sydney. Gwynneth, the
small and fair, married a Mr. George Baker
on the American consular staff in the days
when the still-liappily-remembered John Bray
was, U.S.A. Consul-General. She is related
to Guy Griffiths and Mrs. Herbert Green.
The Gainsborough was picked up at Nice.
Those of you who haven’t seen the Inde-
pendent Players in “Caudle Light” should
take the earliest chance of doing so.
Clarence Murphy, in a grass-green brocade
coat frogged with gold, as his own valet
is at once slyly humorous and such a hand-
some blade that one, wonders the husbands
of Vienna didn’t stick him as full of holes
as a colander. Doris Fitton, in her very
small part, carries an air that goes with her
ermine coat and expensive perfume, and
Freda McGhee is charming in water-green
moire as the masquerading maid. As for
man-servant Bastian, one feels that with his
manner Fate should have made him a Duke,
or at least a Hollywood producer.
This Sydney girl, Betty Stockfield, is
female lead in the well-praised talkie “City
of Song.” Betty, trained in Sydney by the
late Mrs. Green
in d a n c i n g,
and by her
mother in
dramatic art,
left for Lon-
don (Avith her
family) in
1914; she and
her two sisters
finished their
education
there . and in
Paris. Betty
then went on
the stage,
appearing in
the Chariot
Revues. One
night star Ger-
trude L a av-
rence fell ill,
and understudy
Betty went on
for her. Her
performance recommended lier for further
success, and she appeared on the West End
stage with such celebrities as Sir Gerald du
Maurier and Irene Vanbrugh. Since then
she has been featured in the British talkies
“Captivation” and “77 Park Lane.” She
is the eldest daughter of a former Sydney
business man.
The one place in Sydney last Friday where
this scribe found ready laughter was at 267
George-street, the Business Girls’ Club. A
fortnight ago this blossomed into a cafe and
a clubroom where out-of-work girls can drop
in for a meal, an hour’s practice on the type-
writer or the opportunity to run up a seam
on the alert-looking sewing-machines. If
times are very bad indeed, and a girl does
not know where she will find a roof at night,
she will even get here a chit to the Salva-
tion Army Hostel at Moore Park. The cafe
and hostel accommodation are part of the
Housing Committee’s scheme, and unem-
ployed or liard-up girls are cordially invited
to be guests. From 12 to 2 a good three-
course hot dinner is served for nothing to
the girl without a pay envelope, for a
few pence to her whose envelope is growing
leaner. Mrs. R. A. Moore, Miss Ethel
Ranken and Mrs. Boesen are the three
cheery women who can be consulted at any
time from nine till five o’clock. Mrs. Boesen
presides over a glittering array of gas stoves,
refrigerator, shining cups and plates and
an avenue of pink-topped tables, at which
112 girls dined last Friday. Mrs. Moore
keeps an advisory eye on the typewriting
and shorthand students. Miss Ranken is
an ideal secretary. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, Mrs. Michaelis, Miss
.Tean Brenan and Miss Kate Egan are other
keen workers for thu club and cafe.
There was no depression about the Town
Hall the other afternoon when the Lud-
Mayor’s lady handed out two £lO5 cheques as
the result of the Remembrance Ball on the
Nieuw Holland. New Town Clerk Roy
Hendy took possession of one for the Mayor’s
Enzed Earthquake Fund, and the other went
to W. M. Hopkins, president of the Sailors
and Soldiers’ Fathers’ Association. Then a
silver boomerang apiece was handed to the
general manager and the assistant manager
of the H'olland-Australia line, which lent the
ship. No doubt this was a gentle hint that
the committee would come back for the loan
of another ship some day.
Manly evidently believes that charity
begins at home; last week about 1200 of its
citizens turned up at the ball for the new
district hospital. This was easily the biggest
ball the Village has ever launched, and the
moving cars on the roads leading to the
hospital looked in the distance like a mon-
ster pyrotechnic display. The top wards of
the hospital were blazing with lights, ampli-
fiers, poinsettia and the yellow flame of
Iceland poppies. Two lower wards were the
supper-containers till the dancers refreshed
themselves. The N.S.W. Fire Brigade
orchestra injected shots of jazz, as inspiring
to quick action as a fire-alarm, into the knees
and ankles of youth and midare' ageV 'The
Governor and apple-cheeked aide j
supplied a thrill for the 1 < debs., P * s
crieff Barron’s lady did the official honors.
Bananaland’s budget:—
Dorothy Brunton was the guest of honor t
music-and-tea afternoon arranged by the
the Mayoress’s room at the City Hall. She
three-quarter silver grey astrachan coat an
and a shepherd’s plaid skirt. Mrs. Peterson *
assisted by Adeline Power in receiving the gue ,
was in navy-blue patterned satin beaute navy
hat. The Mayoress, Mrs. J. W. Greene wore nut
brown, with an ivory blouse and long coat
with fur collar and cuffs. Mrs. Burry ganged the.
music, which was given by Bessie Dougall, badie
Hardwicke and little Peggy Woods, while Beiyl
Telford elocuted. Essie Field played the accompam-
m,The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the fourth
annual meeting of the Queensland Victoria
branch. Her Ex, who is president of the -League,
wore mastic lace and georgette. Mrs. J. ll iairta
president of the C.W.A., was a guest of honor -n
dahlia red; Mrs. M. S. Herring and W. A. Jolly
were with the vice-regal party. Mrs H. Spanjer
Nancy Muiihead, Malcolm Finlayson and Bobbie Kaye
gave the music. . , ' , ~
On the. same night the B.M.A. had a dance a
bridge party at Lennon’s. Dr. F. A - H °P e
president of the Queensland branch, and Mrs Michod,
in a charming black cobweb lace frock with touches
of blue, welcomed the good roll-up. Mrs. E. f>.
Myers wore shell-pink ninon and Mrs. Ralph Weaver
cornflower-blue; Dr. Phyllis Cilento chose Venice
blue • Mrs J. M. Thompson was in black mai lette ,
Mrs. ’A. Clowes and Dr. Beatrice Warner donned
black lace. • . __
llcv. Samuel Watkin tied the knot betwixt Norman
P.avles, son of the late Rev. R. Bayles, Camberwell,
Victoria, and Mary, only daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. A. C. Haig, Brisbane. The bride, who was
given away by Mr. A., T. Noyes, was in ivory
silk muslin, her tulle veil falling from a Venetian
point lace cap. Evelyn Green and Jean and Nacy
Milne ’maided in foxglove pink georgette. Atcherlev
House saw the feasting, Mrs. A. T. Noyes hostessing
in black marocain. A motor tour to Sydney and
Melbourne is the ’moon.
The City Hall was packed for the lecture on the
Dover Patrol, given by Admiral Evans to aid the
funds of Girl Guides and Boy Scouts, who were
present in goodly numbers. Scout-Commissioner Snow
and Dorothy Hawthorn, Deputy-Commissioner for
Girl Guides (looking handsome in floral silk), were
in charge, and. the Deputy-Governor and his lady were
there, as well as the Mayor, Archbishop Sharp and
many other notables. .
At the Q.T.C. races the Blair lady wore black silk
velvet and ivory. She was accompanied by Mrs.
R. W. Dowling, in date-brown repp. Admiral and
Mrs; E. R. G. Evans were guests of the committee.
A dry~six months (“no morning tea” has resulted
in the saving of some £5OO, say the heads) is the
cause of bitter complaint by the nurses at the Geneial
Hospital. George Rees, chairman of the Brisbane
and South Coast Hospitals board, announces that for
the future 11 o’clock tea will be provided, but with-
out cakes. ...
The new Lord Mayor, Alderman Greene, is going
to wear knee-breeches, silk stockings and slippers
under his mayoral robes, and his chauffeur is to be
resplendent in livery. The first wearing was at
the' King’s birthday levee at Parliament House.
The Speck speaks :
To raise the wind for the supply of garments to
poor children, Mrs. Dick threw open her pretty
house, Fowey, Sandy Bay, for a musical afternoon.
Colin Graham was in charge of the gramophones,
Joan Scott-Power gave two items on the piano, and
Berenice O’Brien recited. The C.J.’s lady spoke
on the excellence of the cause.
Molly, daughter of the Douglas Fitzgeralds, and
A. B. Taylor, Professor of English at the Tas. Uni.,
were made one by the Rev. W. Hughes at St. John’s,
Newtown. The bride’s frock was of white erfipe
satin and georgette, the train lined with faint pink.
The embroidered net veil fell from a chaplet of
orange blossoms. There were no bridesmaids, and
only intimate friends and relatives at the wedding
The Exhibition of Antiques held in Launceston in
aid of the poor excelled anything previously seen
in the Speck. Collectors from the mainland were
amazed at the richness of the treasures displayed.
The whole of the floor space of the Albert Hall was
taken up, and exhibits overflowed to the banquet-
room upstairs. People from all over the island
flocked to the show, of which the Lieut.-Gov. was
patron and the Mayor hon. sec. Some of
the exhibits were 5000 years old; the furniture,
jewellery, silver, miniatures, costumes, ivories, etc.,
couldn’t be done justice to in one visit.
Mrs. Leslie Hore and her daughter Mrs. Grose, the
latter with her two children, have been getting away
from the Rabaul heat on Mount Wellington. They
returned to New Guinea via Sydney by the Nellore,
which was crowded with passengers from the Speck.
Musical Mary Corran, who is having a well-earned
holiday in London, writes that she has encountered
many friends from the Speck, among others Mr. and
Mrs. Alan Roberts. The Robertses are now home-
ward bound, after two years spent in various parts
of England.
The Empire Eve Dance, run by the committee
working for Kathleen Symonds in the Popular Girl
competition, was a bright affair, the Naval Drill
Hall being gay with flags and strings of lights and
masses of chrysanthemums. Mrs. Symonds wore brown
lace; daughter Kathleen, emerald green chiffon with
ruffled skirt.
Maisie, second daughter of th<j W. A. Brains, and
Alan Cane, of Newtown, announce their engagement.


v; : •', -k
A§SW; xv.- ; •••;
P :JS
-'Psr ifps^v
f; v
§r?
s*•:> r\ p :•
&
W
SSKS2 vf - , W-r-»<*\ : r>.'
;-X : 17^
\4/X
Ip- II in ipjl
/•av ha?
?..V'l,:: VS'A
V'<v
m
%y.
n * • \\
* i :■
>jsk
\vs
&• v ' 2*
3m :'i>
X £
/.*v
A
*ivs%,-\ 'A 4
V 7 X s V
A-A
,» ,V; ti
! > s ■
'/ V
\- V
I p
5>5
v.ay
111 pm
! A ■
i '. v XV X? x£3B&B®3®s
&
m
S : ’:<
<*. •: *'>' *
v • W
f£
IS
:
<*
" < *>
*? i
v.».\
‘XV:-.., \
A
" v A
V y
VV.; 'v ; i:\.p-..
mm
m
'/
IS
X* \ «<•'
s\ \
N \
4\ i\'
z
Sf
A
Hi
%v\\.
x
m
-"A
a
W
HI
Aft
il
*3s
V* * r
i \
«y«
i v.v®
\ §
m
m)
A
♦
11
UYXx
Qlft-UUIO - , t r- *uj
0!^“-
I
... *«: u»>!tMV’> ’ ' ;..,
&
m
Drink to
prosperity
i i i i t i * I—jet
the finest whisky
Australia produces
be your choice . . .
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE the
purity— the mellowness—the maturity of
Old Court Whisky, the Nation’s favourite.
FOR YOUR POCKET’S SAKE - the
benefits of this finest Australian spirit at
a price which makes your nip of whisky
an economic necessity.
WtfomT
iWtislui
'Qhc Worlds Purest '
-AND THE NATION'S FAVOURITE


Missing Friends.
v\NY person knowing the present where-
abouts or any particulars- concerning
the death of WILLIAM DAWSON, son of
William Matthew Dawson, and who lived at
and left Tallangatta prior to 1908, please
communicate with COURTNEY & DUNN,
Solicitors, 127 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice. '
{-JELENA (otherwise Ellen) FINUCANE formerly
of Ballymaconda or Baliymacouta House Parish
of Kilmaley County Clare Ireland deceased.
EMILY FOLEY v. PATRICK FINUCANE.
To MICHAEL ANDREW FINUCANE a brother of
the abovenained Helena Finucane and
To his children Ellen Finucane Amelia Rogers
(otherwise Finucane) and Gertrude Finucane.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenained Helena (other-
wise Ellen) Finucane died a spinster and intestate
on 10th June 1927 in Dublin and that by an Order
of the Hig;h Court of Justice Irish Free State made
in this suit an inquiry was directed who were the
next of kin of the said Helena Finucane living at her
death and whether any of them have since died and
if so who are their legal personal representatives.
Any persons claiming to be next of kin of the said
intestate must send full particulars of their claim
to the undersigned Solicitors on or before the 12th
day of October 1931 failing which they will be per-
emptorily excluded from all benefit under the said
intestacy.
Dated this 16th day of April, 1931.
JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
MAXWELL WELDON & CO., Solicitors,
15 Eden Quay, Dublin.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY'S: THE LOVE RACE.
ROYAL: THE CALENDAR.
(Commencing next Saturday).
T C. WILLIAMSON, L T D.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE MIKADO
rriVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre 0928.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
The Governor and Lady Somers had their
last glimpse of Australia’s favorite sport
at Flemington on Saturday. The weather
was vile and the going very heavy. It is
not often we get fog and rain at the same
time, but we had a liberal dose of both,
with soaked lawns and lagoons diversifying
the flagged pavement about the stand and
betting ring. The visibility was so bad at
times that even through glasses colors
couldn’t be distinguished at the back of the
course. As a measure of mercy there was
no cold wind, so the discomfort wasn’t as
acute as it might have been, but for most of
us* what with the favorites losing with
heart-breaking regularity, home and the fire-
side were things to be sighed for wistfully.
Cautious persons wore goloshes or the over-
boots technically known as “rubbers,” and
there was a mild outcrop of quasi-Russian
leather boots and gaiters.
His Ex. and party arrived for luncheon
and left before the last race. After the
final “God Save,” Lord Somers thanked the
bandmaster and shook hands with him. Lady
Somers wore a tweed coat and skirt in grey
and black, with furs and a black felt hat;
Miss Speir was also tweed-clad, in heather
tones, topped by a green velvet hat; and
Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald wore an ensemble
suit and felt millinery in fawn shades. The
dressing of the feminine part of the crowd
was the usual rainy-day medley. There
were some gay leather raincoats and heaps
of warm cloth or tweed topcoats, almost
all cheered by bright scarves, and a scattering
of furs and tailor-mades. The attendance
was better than was expected, but there was no
promenading about the lawns and the most
cheerful of souls could not have pronounced
it anything but dull. Amongst those who
braved the weather were Mayoress Luxton,
Mrs. Alan Currie, in brown suit and felt
hat; Mrs. S. Hammond and her daughter
Pat, Mrs. A. Chirnside, jun., and Mrs.
Goring O’Connell, from India, tailored in
bright blue cloth and leather coat. Vera de
Bavay’s rose-red ensemble suit and hat made
a bright splash of color, and Gwen Blogg
achieved a distinctive note with a polo coat
and hat of pale amber hue and a scarf that
combined the shades of the orchid she wore.
Kathleen Thomson sported a becoming red
leather coat and beret. Mrs. R. Linton,
Mrs. Murray Heffernan, Mrs. Middows and
Thelma Halbert formed a party. Dr. and
Mrs. B. O’Sullivan, Mrs. J. J. Daly, Com-
mander and Mrs. Geoffrey Haggard, Mrs.
C. J. Ahern and the Richard Turnbulls
were others who took the risk of a coad id de
dose.
Flemington is undergoing some changes of
lay-out due to the installation of the totali-
sator. The former members’ stand, known
as “Bagot’s cowshed,” has now a companion
building on the other side of the stairs lead-
ing from the railway. This will house the
section of the tote where place and win
tickets are purchased—a flat picturesque
building that fits into the slope of the hill as
it were. A long row of standard roses and
a stretch of lawn, now bricked over, have
disappeared in the remodelling process.
Further along, near the bird-cage, beneath
the results and riders’ board, are the pay
windows—at least that’s what they look
like. The machine won’t be ready before the
spring meeting.
The first mayoral ball of the season was
that at the new Caulfield Town Hall. Mayor
and Mayoress Ritchie received the guests.
Twenty debutantes, in creamy-tinted taffeta,
with blue satin shoes, carried pink-and-blue
posies. The Mayoress blended in her gown
lace and georgette of delphinium blue, and
Miss Ritchie sported almond-green chiffon.
Among the dancers were Mrs. Luxton, in
black velvet; Frank Clarke’s lady, whose
beige frock was embellished with gold-and-
sequin embroidery; and the Best lady, in
black velvet and lace.
To help the Children’s Hospital Mrs. J. L.
Menzies and her daughter, Mrs. Loxton
Dougharty, were hostesses at a bridge party
in Mrs. Howard Clark’s flat at Fairlie House,
South Yarra. Among the players were the
Lockyer lady, Mrs. O. Morrice Williams,
Mrs. Warren Clark and Mrs. F. Brett. Mrs.
Menzies wore black and white and Mrs.
Dougharty was in scarlet and white sago
spotted crepe de Chine with matching felt
hat. Marnie Clark, Barbara Dougharty and
Sheila Robinson helped.
The associations that help the blind bene-
fited to the'extent of £11,106 by the queen
competition which concluded on Saturday
night. The winner was the Fire Brigades’
nominee, Bonnie Bell, whose votes brought
in £3491. The other candidates were Miss
E. Davidson (Police), £2331; Myra Marsh
(Tramways), £1946; Mollie Sullivan (Rail-
ways), £1708; and Marian Atlee Hunt
(Public Services), £1630. With h fanfare
of trumpets the five queens, in coronation
robes, with retinues of maids-in-waiting, peers
of the realm and flower-girls, faced a crowded
house at the Town Hall, when General
Monash, who had a bodyguard consisting of
one representative from each of the services
concerned, crowned the top-scorer. ,T. V.
O’Connor, with assistance from Jennie
Brenan and the Firm, stage-managed the
pageant.
At Ormond Hall a bridge party was held,
organised by the president of the National
Council of Women, Mrs. I. H. Moss, aided
by Mrs. A. F. C. Larcher and Mrs. H.
Fossett. Macedon gardens contributed holly,
flowers and foliage for sale, and the coun-
cil’s funds benefited substantially.
Lady Somers said her good-byes to the
Lyceum Club at a dinner attended by about
100 members. Sunny South roses were re-
flected in the polished wood of the official
table. Her Ex., who wore bottle-green georg-
ette, and was accompanied by Mrs. R. T.
A. McDonald, received as a memento of her
association with the club a copy of “We of
the Never Never,” by Mrs. xEnea's Gunn,
who autographed the volume, which hail
been bound in brown leather, touched up
with gold, by Margaret Alston. The presi-
dent, Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan, handed over
the gift.
La.dy Somers put in an appearance at a
meeting of the Friendly Union of Soldiers’
Wives and Mothers, of which she is patron-
ess, and the president, the Chauvel lady,
expressed regrets at her Ex.’s departure,
handing her a farewell posy. At a bridge
party at Myer’s in aid of the Central Catho-
lic Library the v.-r. lady was handed a
boomerang, trailed with holly, by Mrs. J. H.
Moore, and Father Hackett voiced appre-
ciation of Lady Somers’s patronage. Prime
Minister Scullin’s wife was present, and
was given a volume of Australian verse.
There was music, too.
In celebration of the visit of Nina Brent-
nail, secretary of the Y.W.C.A. in Trivan-
drum, India, an Oriental festival was staged
at headquarters in Russell-street. Shoe-
less maidens wrapped in many-colored saris,
seated amid fruit, flowers, brass, silken goods
and brocades beneath big umbrellas, repre-
sented a market in Hyderabad, and the Taj
Mahal appeared on the backcloth of the
palm-decked stage. A loan collection of
Indian curios spread out in the lounge
was explained by a real sheikh, Abdul Kada,
and. Mr. Shah. Mrs. Ernest Sage sang
Indian love lyrics, and poems by Sarojini
Naidu were recited by Miss M. Cardwell.
In the evening the play “Chitra,” by Tagore,
dramatised poems by Sarojini Naidu and a
tableau of the Indian Round-table Confer-
ence of 1931 were features.
At an afternoon-tea gathering of Victoria
League members Vice-Admiral Creswell’s
lady traced the growth of the league’s bush
libraries. The supplying of books for back-
blocks settlers commenced in war-time,
when, also, a library was established at
Anzac House. The league now sponsors 300
bush libraries. A plea was made for con-
tributionsj of books and material for bindery
repairs; the Allen lady spoke on the same
subject. Shirley Tweddle sang, and Helen
Speeding played pianoforte solos.
The knot-tying of Rita Showers, daughter
of the A. F. Showers couple of Essendon, to
Mr. K. Smalley, will be a social fixture of
the 18th of this month at St. John’s Church,
Essendon, with after-reception at the Orien-
tal Hotel.
Carrying a sheaf of early pink peach blos-
som against her gown of ivory satin and
veil of old lace, Kathleen Frances Ralph
was linked with Dr. Alick lan Chapman,
of Minyip, at St. George’s, Malvern. The
bridegroom had a bodyguard of brother-
medicoes, and two ’maids with russet-hued
leaves about their hair and frocks of pale
gold lace attended the bride.
Jean Eggleston, daughter of the F. W.
Eggleston couple, is off shortly for Banana-
land to bridesmaid at the wedding of Jessie
Groom and Cecil Garton Pearce, on the
24th at Toowoomba. The bride-elect is the
daughter of the handled Lyttleton Groom
couple, of the Darling Downs city.
Thelma Scott, pictured here by Lafayette,
will play the only feminine r6le in Molnar’s
“The Play’s
the Thing,”
to be put on
by the Gregan
McMahon
Players at the
Comedy. The
young lady
has had some
training in
elocution, but
has had no
stage experi-
ence. She is
an ex-student
of the P.L.C.,
and her theat-
rical debut
will happen
about the same
time as her
18th birthday.
She is the
daughter of
Mrs E. B.
Scott, secretary of the Thornbury branch of
the Red Cross Auxiliary of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital.
At the Athenaeum, in conjunction with the
usual programme, a talkie of Lord Somers
giving an address on British trade, made at
the Efftee studio, was shown. Another side-
line was a demonstration of the newest ball-
room dances by Margaret Nicholson and
John Warren. Miss Nicholson’s frock, which
blended all the shades of Iceland poppies,
was long and tight of bodice, with a full
skirt. Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. Scullin, Gen-
eral Cliaiuvel and his lady and E. G. Theo-
dore were in the first-night audience.
The Cesar Franck Sonata in A for violin
and piano, performed by Phyllis Parlett and
Stanley Adams, was the chief item of the
Musical Society’s concert. Shirley Tweddle
in rose-pink lace sang lyrics by Brahms and
a quaintly attractive song, “Silver,” by
Armstrong Gibbs. C. E. Monteath gave a
talk about an English choral festival,
Mr. and Mrs. Gregor Wood sang duets, and
Esther Rofe played piano solos.
A tea party at the Melbourne Golf Club’s
links, attended by past and present associ-
ates, was given by way of a good-bye to
Lady Somers, who has played with the club
in senior pennant matches. Mrs. Percy
Jennings, associates’ president, gave her Ex.
a member’s badge of blue enamel as a
memento.
A cheque and a volume of Masefield’s
poems were handed to Miss Purnell as a
remembrance of her stewardship as acting-
secretary of the Girl Guides’ Association
during Sybil Irving’s absence in England.
“Follow a Star,” the new revue at the
Princess, contains many ballets in striking
settings. The dressing runs from brassibres
and trunks to the most voluminous of skirts.
“Orange Land” provides one of the pret-
tiest stage pictures seen here for many
moons. Maidens in Spanish attire with
small hats of amber-toned satin and shawls
of the same color, fringed in brown, dance
in a landscape setting ablaze with autumn
foliage. Solo dancers appear in dresses of
gold or shaded orange, and even Athol Tier,
who trips on in a feminine make-up, wears
an evening gown that harmonises. Another
outstanding number is the black and white
finale, in which girls in close-fitting black
velvet with frothy white frills and immense
hats swirl round upon a revolving stage
along with four pianos and their players.
In an outer ring on terra firma are lots of
girls in white muslin gowns of crinoline
mode, topped by shady hats with a dash of
black. Another charming ensemble is in
black, silver and rose, the dancers sporting
large silvery Medici collars and semi-mili-
tary head-dresses with rosy hussar plumes.
The Fallow twins, the soloists, achieve a
Directoire touch with black satin coats lined
with buttercup. May Craven glides into a
Venetian scene in a gondola, her white lace
gown and mantilla twinkling with crystal
dewdrops.
An auxiliary of the home for mentally
defective childreh at Flemington, which is
to be opened in July, was formed at a meet-
ing at the Town Hall, organised by Mrs. N.
Longland, when the Lud Mayor, Dr. J.
G-eig, knight Richard Stawell and others
spoke.
At last, and too late to prevent a lot of
damage, this State has swung into line, with
Mamma N. S. Wales and given legislative
protection to native flora. About the only
things that grow wild not mentioned in the
list of prohibitions are bracken and gum-
tips. Pink and white heath, boronias,
wattle, orchids, berries and other graceful
ornaments of the countryside may now bloom
in peace—when the Law is in the offing,
anyhow.
A Broothorn camera caught this glimpse
of Nancy, daughter of the Apple Isle’s
Premier, j. 0.
McPhee. She
is the second
of seven child-
ren, is just
19, and is
studying Law
at Hobart
Uni., of which
her mother is
a graduate.
Miss McPhee
spent part of
her vacation
in Melbourne,
having come
across with
her father
when he was
summoned to
the Premiers’
con f e r e n c e.
Mrs. McPhee
devotes her
spare time to
charitable work, in which she has the sup-
port of her eldest daughter.
Sculptor Ola Cohn has started work on
a red-gum stump in the Fitzroy Gardens
which she has had her eye upon for many a
day, her aim being to convert it into an
“Elfin tree” after the lines of the one in
Kensington Gardens, London. A native-
bear is the first of the figures to take shape.
This work is a labor of love on the part of
Miss Cohn, her gift to the children of the
present and future.
Tenor Joseph Hislop on his return from
Maoriland will join his wife and daughter
May at Clarendon House, East Melbourne,
where they have had a flat for some weeks.
Miss Hislop, who is in her early teens, is a
pupil at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
and is taking dancing lessons from Jennie
Brenan.
Doris, daughter of Commander and Mrs.
Bloomfield, of Swan Island, Queenseliff, has
given her promise to N. R. Ellis, of Kew,
managing director of the Deep Sea Diving
and Salvage Co., Miss Bloomfield is a trainee
at Geelong Hospital.
Dorothy, daughter of the J. T. Packers,
of Caulfield, had a coming-out dance at the
pavilion of the Caulfield Park Bowling club.
The deb. wore white georgette and tulle with
a twinkle of silver and crystal. Mrs. Packer
was in black taffeta.
It was only when Prof. A. J. Ewart was
leaving to attend the Universities’ Conference
in London that the public discovered he had
taken his second plunge into matrimony.
The lady, who is accompanying him on
the trip, is Elizabeth, daughter of the
R. R. Biltons, of Crayne. She was on the
teaching staff of the Coburg High School.
Ex-Mayoress Morell, who has been on a
trip to Colombo with her daughter Sheila,
returned last week much benefited in health.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Wright and their
infant son motored to Melbourne from their
station home in the Snowy River district for
a short visit, staying at Clarendon House.
Mrs. Wright, as Hilda Rix Nicholas, made
a name in art circles as a painter.
Lud Mayor Luxton’s son Lewis, who is
in his secqnd year at Cambridge, won the
quarter-mile final of the swimming trials.
Like his father, Lewis is a good oarsman,
and has rowed in head-of-the-river races for
Melbourne Grammar.
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe is back in Mel-
bourne after travels in Austria and Switzer-
land.
Marjorie Lawrence, of Geelong, a drama-
tic mezzo-soprano, who has had three years’
study in Paris under Madame Dinh Gilly, is
to make her debut in opera in October. She
has already won laurels in song recitals in
the gay city. Like John Brownlee, she was
a pupil of Ivor Boustead, of Melbourne.
Westralia’s letter :
It takes pluck to produce a play in our
huge His Majesty’s these times; Anita Fitz-
gerald deserves a pat on the back for her bright
little comedy “The Press, the Pulpit and the Petti-
coat.” Muriel Bird was the vivacious young press-
woman who runs her quarry to earth, via the fire-
escape; Norrie John made the most of her part of a
sweet soul wedded to a puffing parson, the latter
played convincingly by John Le Tessier; and Noble
Norwood, as hero Richard, was particularly good in
his telephone conversation with heavy-witted Geral-
dine, impersonated by Mrs. Noel Sullivan. His Ex., who
came along on the second evening, was escorted back-
stage after the show, and a farewell address tucked
into a leather wallet was presented to him on behalf
of Miss Fitzgerald, the' concert artists and the
amateur dramatic societies of Perth. He has always
had a word of appreciation for amateur players.
Perth is now provided with excellent weekly
orchestral concerts. The Symphony Orchestra has
opened its winter season and will dovetail on alternate
Sunday nights with the C.T.A. musicians. For the
opening concert a “Gondoliers” selection, a Tschai-
kowsky group and “Dance of the Hours” from “La
Giaconda” were particularly choice offerings. Vic
Newton wields the baton and Theatre Royal shelters
the harmony.
Two fine-weather meetings wound up racing at
Ascot until next season. Frocking on the semi-final
day ran to tweeds and perky berets. Mrs. Leo
O’Connor, looking as pretty as ever, wore a tailored
fur-collared coat; Mrs. Forrest, in cedar-brown, had
a blue-clad daughter under her wing; Mrs. Tymms
warmed herself in a fur coat; Mrs. Bill Murdoch
topped her nutmeg suit with a citron-shaded hat;
Mrs. Archie Burt wore stone-marten peltry with
her tailor-made; Mrs. Victor Harwood chose flecked
beige and brown, and a dash of green brightened
Miss Sweeting’s navy rig.
For the Foundation Day meeting all black and
magpie turnouts were hot favorites. Nora Parker
was in fashionably-cut black; Mrs. Reg Summerhayes
wore satin of the midnight shade relieved with
white; Mavis Holmes chose shagbark-brown; medico
Webster’s wife was noticeable in brown and cream ;
accessories of powder-blue were mingled with Mrs.
Langlois Lefroy’s black; bag, scarf and hat made
scarlet splashes against Betty Goff’s black slimness;
Mrs. Dave Walsh’s royal blue coat had sumptuous
collar and cuffs.
Dorothy Beart, of the merry , brown eyes and
ravishing ankles, has become engaged to Maurice
Quin, third son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Quin, of
Malvern, Victoria. Dorothy has kept her father
company for the past year at his station, Bamboo
Springs, near Marble Bar.
Joyce, second daughter of the Joe Parsons couple
of West Perth, has promised to take a matrimonial
plunge with Dr. Hamieh McMillan, of Perth Hospital.
Miss D’Arcy’s orchestra put pep into twinkling
feet at the Loreto old girls’ annual hop in the
Y.A.L. Supper tables were aglow with blue and
gold flowers, and matching streamers cascaded from
above. Mrs. Rogers wore black georgettes and lace,
as did Mrs. Henderson and Mrs. Connaughton, who
chaperoned daughter Kathleen, in patterned chiffons.
Tiny frills ran races round about] the ivory taffetas
worn by Muriel Jacobs; Marion Freedman was in
dawn-pink; Pauline Groom chose red, and Pat Sulli-
van ceil-blue corded moire; Audrie Rockett’s taffetas
were shaded to match the delphinium; Mollie Dunpliy
was a swirl of primrose taffetas.
S. Aus. sends a few lines
The weather was favorable to fur coats at
the A.R.G. races. Mr. James Hall (chair-
man) and several handsome daughters enter-
tained at afternoon tea; dry ■> tan had been
thoughtfully laid under the big fir-trees, where many
clustered the whole afternoon. Miss Hall wore a
black face-cloth tailored suit, a black velour hat and
stone marten fur. The Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J.
Glover) wore a black cloth coat with a collar of
grey fox fur and a black velvet toque.
A bridge afternoon was held at the Adelaide
Women’s Club to raise money for buying clothing
for sending over to the West Coast. It is a pity
that some people with generous impulses don’t
always stop to think what sort of garments are
acceptable. A lady who recently asked some friends
for clothes for babies in the'poorest part of the
town was slightly staggered when there arrived a
parcel of pale blue and pink miniature matinee
jackets trimmed with marabout. Hard cash is often
a better proposition.
The Commercial Travellers’ Club will hold its
annual ball, always a popular function, on Friday
night at the Adelaide railway station. Invited
guests will include the Mayor and Mayoress and
the Premier and Mrs. L. L. Hill.
The Adelaide Hunt Club Ball is to be held at the
Palais Royal on July 2. The Hunt Club set is
invariably a feature, and this year there will not be
any objection to the length of the white satin skirt
necessary for the poudre maidens in the hunting
fancy-dress costume. In the bobbed-skirt period they
proclaimed the long skirt dowdy.
Mrs. George Brookman has returned to Barton-
terrace, North Adelaide, after a visit to Westralia.


South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tEuripides . . 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor . . 15,000 ~ Sept. 29
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 24
: ' ; Anchises •• • 10,000 „ Nov. 23
tThemistocles 12,500 ~ Dec. 2
♦First class only. tFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
, One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £2
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo From £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Bank of Now Zealand
Established JB6l.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Strafford
By LADY BURGHCLERE. Illus-
trated. 2 vols. 30s. net.
An important historical study based
on hitherto unpublished MSS. pre-
served by Lord Fitzwilliam at Went-
worth Woodhouse.
Reminiscences
By LORD KILBRACKEN, G.C.B.
1 Os. 6d. net.
The outstanding feature of these
reminiscences is the vivid and intimate
account of Mr. Gladstone, whom the
writer served as private secretary for
many years.
The Endless Adventure
By F. S. OLIVER. Vol. II now
ready. The first Parliament of
George 11., 1727-35. With por-
traits. 15s. net. Vol 1, from
1710 to 1727. 15s. net.
The “Times”: “Mr. Oliver’s second volume is
altogether worthy of his first.... An outline
of the whole reign enables facet after facet of
character to be displayed, and the pen portraits
of these early pages are among the most
brilliant passages of the book.”
Above the Dark Circus
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
Nottingham “Guardian”: “A wild fantasy of
almost incredible happenings.”
“Elizabeth’s” New Novel:
Father
Recommended by the Book Society.
[Empire Library.
The “Times”: “ ‘Father’ is one of those
novels in the author’s comic vein which all her
readers enjoy ....a highly amusing story.”
Feb. Choice of the Book Society.
Tobit Transplanted
By STELLA BENSON.
[Empire Library.
The “Tatler”: “Her - latest novel is very
remarkable indeed.... The humor and the
charm of the style in which the story is written
make, it a delight to read.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN &T CIO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
LOVELY
RAROTONGA
PEARL OF THE PACIFIC
To meet present conditions a
short, inexpensive holiday ex-
cursion to Rarotonga has been
arranged by the Union S.S. Co.
Leaving Sydney on June 11 by
the “Makura,” those availing
themselves of this opportunity
will make the return voyage
by the “Maunganui,” reaching
Sydney July 4.
First Class return, £45
Second Class return, £34
(No exchange.)
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
HliillK
: ■■■
¥
f
/ m
«
fi
/y|
''•vr ;-
-•v i\
iS
» -
A WINTER TOUR
TO
Smooth Water. Native Bazaars. Tropic Isles.
Leaving Sydney
6th JULY, 1931, by S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Swimming Bath.
Deck Cabins. Gymnasium.
AN ALL-EXPENSE ROUND TOUR £l2B.
Includes First-class return steamship accommodation,
hotels, two weeks’ motor trip through Java, guides, tips
to hotel servants, etc.
Portion only of fare subject to exchange.
Ask for Folder No. 11.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge St., Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Cairns, Townsville, etc.
“8.-P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
e
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—-from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Windjammer,” at Sydney State, is billed
as “the first British-Australian talkie pro-
duction.” It is based on the best-seller
written by the. Australian journalists Alan
Villiers and Ronald Walker, who went to
England aboard one of the few deep-sea
sailers that remain. Shipping at Wallaroo
(S.A.), they round the Horn and warp at
London Docks. Whatever the box-office
value of this picture may be—and it deserves
to make ; a lot of money—it will be priceless
to posterity. Almost as valuable as a talkie
recording the doings aboard Cook’s Endea-
vor would be to us. In the intervals be-
[ tween making notes for their book (which
Walker was fated never to read) the press-
men made movies of all the things that con-
cern a windjammer—putting on and taking
in sail, doldrums and tempests, the ship’s
dog and so on. They also registered the end-
less decorative patterns made by sails, spars
and cordage; waves, clouds, the wake, the
forefoot, the decks awash —an infinitude of
lace-like designs in which air, water, clouds
and the ship play balanced parts. Beautiful
work, most of it. Among the dramatic epi-
sodes are a crash to the deck from the royals
and a funeral at sea impressively conducted
by a convincing skipper. The story by A. P.
Herbert, militant Tory-democrat and pas-
sionate lover of ships and sailormen, is
slender but full of racy lines and shrewd
characterisation. Its development takes place
for the most part in the fo’c’s’le, and it is
devoted chiefly to an elucidation of the psy-
chology of the vanishing deep-sea sailor. As
the men ai’e paid off one of them remarks to
a Port of London bobby: “We’ve come
through it all with a cargo of wheat to keep
you chaps on the fourpenny loaf.”
“Uneasy Virtue,” a talkificd version of a
play by The Bulletin's old contributor
Harrison Owen, is also at the State. It was
discussed last week after a pre-view, and
there is nothing to add except that the
dramatist is probably not altogether to blame.
Ilergesheimer said lie felt: like destroying
himself after seeing what a prodoocer had
done to one of his brain-children. The
sound and photography prove that Elstree
is definitely abreast of Hollywood on the
technical side, and the cast couldn’t be
bettered.
* * y
“Men On Call” (Fox), at Sydney Regent,
is an unusually horrible example of Holly-
wood’s habit of wedding brilliant casts to
moron plays. In this one Edmund Lowe,
a lofty-minded enginedriver, loves virginal
Mae Clarke, of the chorus. An uninvited
reporter crashes the pre-nuptial banquet,
asperses Miss Clarke’s virtue, and is thrown
out. Mr. Lowe refuses to listen to her
defence, departs in agony, smashes up his
train as a result of brooding on the busi-
ness, gets the sack, and is picked up in the
usual down-and-out condition on the cus-
tomary park seat, and enlisted in the Coast-
guard Service by Cap. William Harrigan.
Three years later Mae tries to suicide near
Edmund’s picket-boat. Ever since the fatal
party she has been exasperating him, and
the audience, by a series of postal explana-
tions, which are torn up unread. She gets
a chance to justify herself verbally while
convalescing. Mr. Harrigan, who has fallen
in love with her, hears her sad though
muddled story, and immediately fells Mr.
Lowe, leading with the right in accordance
with the perilous Hollywood convention. At
that moment the siren blows. A ship is
afire; the coastguards, “ever ready,” dash
to the rescue and perform heroic deeds which
land Messrs. Lowe and Harrigan in hospi-
tal. Miss Clarke enters in a costume bor-
rowed from a nurse as Mr. Lowe is reveal-
ing the true state of his heart: “If ever 1
lay my lunch-hooks on that little bit of
cream-puff again it will have as much chance
of getting away as you have of being Presi-
dent.” The lady leans over him; there is
an eruption of sentimental music; the kiss
endures till the music faints away, and the
light in the ward swoons with it. Warren
Hymer, Sharon Lynn and Joe Brown are
amongst the picturesque and accomplished
mimes who help to interpret this slush. The
photography is up to the high Fox standard,
but the sound isn’t.
* * *
“Dishonored,” at Melbourne Capitol, is
Paramount’s latest vehicle for the talents
of its new star, Marlene Dietrich. Marlene
appears to have carefully modelled those
parts of herself which are within her con-
trol on Greta Garbo; the others have been
modelled by Nature on the same exemplar.
Everything Marlene does is done leisurely.
She lights a cigarette with sinister delibera-
tion. She talks —when she does talk, which
is seldom —with the portentous slowness of
a gramophone somebody has forgotten to
wind up. Her heavy, sensual eyelids drop
slowly over her feline eyes every time she
passes anybody, and she never passes any-
body, even an Austrian sentry, without giv-
ing him a look which suggests that she in-
tends to return and seduce him at the
earliest opportunity. Like Miss Garbo, she
seems incapable of a natural action. Even
in going to her death she walks like a man-
nequin showing off the latest one from Paris.
The accepted type of the Magdalen born to
incredible sufferings in the cause of luv, she
is the apotheosis of exalted melodrama. On
this technique Hollywood has grafted all its
special brand of vulgarity. The lady shows
her knees at the slightest provocation. It is a
queer mixture, but apparently fulfils a popu-
lar recipe. In “Dishonored” she is a woman
of the Vienna streets who turns spy to
serve her country, falls in love with a Rus-
sian spy and allows him to escape, being
shot for her failure in patriotism. The last
scene is artistic, and is evidently founded
on the story of Nurse Cavell. The young-
officer in charge of the firing squad refuses
to do his duty, and an older officer, who
has not fallen for Miss Dietrich, completes
the ceremony.
The foregoing is preceded by a war film
in which dogs, dressed up in uniform, indulge
in trench warfare. They throw bombs and
fire machine-guns at each other. It is done
with five times the effectiveness of similar
canine acts on the legitimate stage, and is
therefore five times as painful. The picture
is as melancholy a spectacle for the humani-
tarian as for the dog-lover.


TOOHEYS
STANDARD ITOUT
e
jHp,
,cjr.y
sj/ \r^ksci
r* sL x\W V - tJs _j
co p*te£,.\y< h
v’Oou
Makes
Imported
Unimportant.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The Balmain Bicycle Club championship
races were executed in the presence of a
hu - ge crowd at Sydney Association Ground.
One charming young damsel on the G.S.
was so fearfully handicapped by her under-
standings that I [Sappho Smith] found
myself evolving the following doggerel every
time I saw her:—
I pity the girl who is “mashed” on a “dude”
With tight pants and ten shillings a week,
For the dress-circle maid who walks forth semi-nude
A tear of regret wets my cheek.
But the thing that I pity the most under Heaven—
The most under Heaven’s glad sun—
Is the girl with a foot that’s in size number seven,
And a boot that’s in size number one.
“Banjo”: He was a bald-headed officer
with a keen instinct for whisky and an un-
limited capacity for takingi things easy. He
used to mooch about the village at night,
and if he saw any lights burning late in the
houses, he would casually look in to see that
nothing was amiss, and pretend to be very
vigilant and on the alert, and he very often
was rewarded with a stiff drink of whisky.
If he had no excuse to go in he used to rattle
at the gates to see that the fastenings were
all right, and when the proprietor came out
he would say, “All right, sir! I was just
seein’ that the gate was fast! Very dry
night, sir!” And this generally ended in
a spirituous manner. But the system one
night resulted in serious damage to the
constable himself. I was reading for an
examination and burning the midnight oil;
in front of the house was a small garden,
into which an old grey horse that belongs to
an Irishman up the village was constantly
straying. He could lift the gate-catch with
his nose, and many a time in the stilly night
I used to hear him rattling at it trying to get
the gate open. Then I would leave my books,
and sally out and drive him away with
language and blue metal. Tired of this kind
of thing I one night prepared a little sur-
prise for him. I got a two-pound dumb-bell,
laid it ready in the balcony overlooking the
gate, so that I could rus'h out and get it
the moment I heard him; and I calculated to
give him the hardest knock he ever had. Then
I went back to the books. Midnight
approached: it was dark as the inside of
a cow. Suddenly I heard a faint rattle
down at the gate. I drew a long breath,
slipped noiselessly into the balcony, grasped
the dumb-bell and let it go with terrible force
right at a dim object just looming through
the pitchy darkness. The astute reader will,
of course, have divined that it was the police-
man. The two-pound iron dumb-bell had
struck him on the temple. He threw up his
hands and fell like a dead man. 1 lushed
to his assistance. In my mind’s eye I saw
inyse'lf before the coroner’s jury ; I saw myself
at the Criminal Court with Judge Windeyer
trying me; I heard the jury bring in a ver-
dict of guilty with a strong recommendation
to mercy, and I knew that
meant hanging for certain
—as people recommended
to mercy always perish on
the scaffold in Australia.
I saw a blotched diagram
of the locality published in
the daily papers with a
cross to mark the spot
where the policeman fell,
and an asterisk to show the
position of the murderer
when he hurled the blood-
thirsty dumb-bell. I saw
my portrait—that of a
dreadful-looking ruffian —
in the “Town and Country
Journal” —and then, hav-
ing reached the prostrate
form of the blue-bottle, I
lifted him in my arms and
ascertained that he still
lived. With tender care I
bathed his alabaster brow;
I watched with eagerness
as he slowly came round:
as soon as he was cons-
cious I began to apologise,
to explain, to grovel. He
listened for a while and
then he said, “Oh, it’s all
right, Banjo. It was aD
unfortunit haccident. Do
you happen to have a little
whisky in the house?” I
loaded him up with whisky,
and I believe you' could
shoot him with dumb-bells
every night in the week on
the same terms.
Judging from the latest
available reports the bush-
ranging industry is not by
any means what it used to
be. Twenty or twenty-five
years ago a bushranger in
anything like a large way
of business had to hire a
trained accountant to audit
his plunder, and it was
not at all an uncom-
mo n circumstance for
him to declare two divi-
dends in the course of a week; but now all
that is changed, and the small retail assassin
of the present day is merely a broken-down
object of scorn with a bad cold, caught
through sitting for 18 consecutive hours
under a hedge while waiting for a man who
was supposed to have eighteenpence about
him and who never turned up. What appears
to be the last of the tribe has lately retired
from business in Western Australia, and
has taken to agriculture on a small scale
in the hope that he may ultimately make
up his past losses. H'e was an active and
vigorous freebooter, but on the first day of
his nefarious career he rode 22 miles and
met only one man, whom he robbed of two
sixpences, an old knife and a plug of loath-
some tobacco. He spent that night in a
paddock, and did not dare to light a fire
lest justice might be on his track; also it
rained incessantly, and he got an attack of
rheumatism, and his horse trod on him
AN ILLUSTRATED PARAGRAPH.
STERN JUDGE (to prisoner accused of horse-thieving ): “Got
a solicitor, prisoner?”
PRISONER (briefly): “No.”
JUDGE: “Got any money to pay one?”
PRISONER ( carelessly ): “No.”
JIDGE: “What are you going to do?”
PRISONER (yawning this time): “Well, so far as I’m con-
cerned, I’m quite content to let the darned thing
drop.” [By “Hop.”— 8/11/’90.]
during the night. Next morning he managed
to raise a breakfast at the cost of eighteen-
pence, and late in the afternoon he was com-
pelled to almost kill a belated canvasser
before he could wrest from him a picture
representing a plain, red-headed girl washing
her feet in a river. He turned the canvasser
upside down and shook him, but nothing fell
out, so he departed with his unsaleable work
of art, and for want of a market ultimately
threw it into a waterhole. About ten o’clock
the same night he forced another lone travel-
ler under pain of death to surrender another
plug of tobacco, a green apple and a foreign
nickel coin. His horse went astray before
morning, and the third day he.wore his legs
off right up to his stomach trudging along
a fearful road, and met nobody at all, and
found nothing that he could beg or borrow
or confiscate; and lie spent that night repent-
ing under a sodden tree, while the rain
dropped with a maddening persistency on the
back of his neck and trickled down his spine.
Towards morning, however, he heard foot-
steps coming along the road, and his spirits
rose; but when he told the traveller to stand
and deliver, that person paid no attention,
but walked right on, and then- the freebooter
told him that his gore would be upon his
own cranium and fired —at least, he attempted
to fire, but his gun was so badly soaked
that it wouldn’t go off. It took him six
hours to get the weapon in working order
again, and while it was still under repair
a swagman took advantage of his defenceless
condition and borrowed all his tobacco. Long
after dark he discovered a selector’s shanty
in the distance, but by this time he was too
hopelessly broken down to attempt violence,
so he simply crawled into a sort of barn and
went to sleep. Just as he was asking him-
self if this could be real he became aware
that a good-sized animal was trotting rest-
lessly round the barn and treading on him
every time it passed. He sat up to expostu-
late, and the animal became scared and gal-
loped harder, and every time it rushed over
its claws seemed to get hitched in his hair,
and it took a portion of that covering along
with it. Then he clutched at it, but it gave
a scream, and hit out with about 180 weighty
extremities at once, and there were claws
in everyone of them; so the unhappy pirate
concluded that he had tried to grasp a whole
ostrich farm, and lay still lest he should be
eaten alive. Sometimes a bird stopped and
stood on him, but generally it only kicked
him with both feet, and then started off on
a fresh gallop. And so the miserable night
passed away, and at length daylight came
and revealed to the man of blood that he
had been insulted for eight long hours by
one solitary Cochin-China rooster without a
tail, and he felt so badly broken up by this
discovery that when the selector found him
and offered him a job to work seven days
in the week in exchange for board and lodg-
ing, he accepted the situation unanimously.
He now trusts by industry arid strict atten-
tion to business that .he, may succeed in
retaining this, lucrative appointment all
through the winter, and possibly in the spring
he may find an opportunity to sell his gun
for a sum that will keep him in food while
he walks to the nearest town, 150 miles
away, and looks for a situation at a low
salary in a limekiln. [2l/6/’9o.]


TECHNICAL BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Roof Carpentry, by G. Colling.?, 4/1; Instructions in Wood Carving for Amateurs, 4/-; The
Slide Rule, by 0. Hoar, 6/4; The Steel Square Applied to Roof Construction, by J. T. Draper,
4/-; Stair-building and the Steel Square, by Hodgson and Williams, 6/10 ; Saws —Their Care
and Treatment, by 11. W. Durham, 9/6; Woodworking Machinery for Small Shops, by A. M.
Ball, 4/-; The Art of Modern Fretcutting, by J. T. Makinson, 4/1: Practical Upholsterer and
Cutter Out, by R, Bitmead, 4/1; Practical Upholstery, by E. Borehain, 5/4; Saw Mill Work
and Practice, by H. J. Blackmur, 7/11; Woodwork Joints (Woodworker Series), 5/6; Carpentry
for Beginners (Woodworker Series), 5/6; Furniture Repairing and Re-Upholstery (Woodworker
Series), 5/6; Woodwork Tools —How to Use Them (Woodworker Series), 5/4; Household Repairs
and Renovations (Woodworker Series), 5/4; Home Carpentry and Cabinetmaking, by T. M.
Lewis, 5/6; Cabinet Designs (with scale drawings and directions), 4/-; Outdoor Woodwork
Designs (with scale drawings and directions), 4/-; Modern Bedroom Suite Designs (with scale
drawings and directions), 4/-; Bedroom Furniture Designs (with scale drawings and directions),
4/-; Table Designs (with scale drawings and directions), 4/-; Living-room Furniture Designs
(with scale drawings and directions), 4/-; Door-making (with scale drawings and directions),
4/-; Bureau and Bookcase Designs (with scale drawings and directions), 4/-; Carpentry and
Joinery, by F. C. Webber, 9/6 ; Carpentry ’and Joinery, by Tredgold and Tarn, 7/3 ; Carpentry
and Benchworlc (with diagrams and illustrations), 2/6; Handrailing and Stair Building, by
G. Collings, 5/4 ; The Slide Rule—Step by Step Instruction, by Cl. A. Gunn, 3/3 ; Commonsense
Handrailing, by T. T. Hodgson, 10/6; Carpentry and Cabinetmaking for Amateurs, 6/4 ; Home
Repairs, by K. Gray, 2/9; Slide Rules and How to Use Them, by T. Jackson, 2/5; Brickwork,
by F. Walker, 4/1; Concretes, Cements, Mortars, Plasters and Stucco —How to Use and How to
Prepare Them, 10/8; Bricks and Tiles, by E. Dobson and A. B. Searle, 8/-; Practical Brick-
laying Self-taught, by Hodgson, 8/4 ; Bricklaying, by A. Hammond, 4/-; Steel Square Pocket Book,
by D. L. Stoddard, 6/9; Roofing Tables, 1250 Rafter Lengths and Bevels, by Harris, 4/-;
A few copies available
of the Sydney Undergraduates’ Song Book, 1931.
QUACK, QUACK.
We apologise for inserting this notice in the midst of our technical advt.,
but we realise that even serious-minded readers are the better for a hearty
laugh occasionally.
PRICE, POST FREE, 1/2.
Concrete for House, Farm and Estate, by F. Bollard, 11/6; Reinforced Concrete Simply Explained,
by O. Faber, 8/-; Reinforced Concrete Calculations in a Nutshell, 5/3; Concrete on the Farm
and in the Shop, by Campbell, 6/10; Preparatory Mathematics for Building Trades, 7/10;
Practical Plastering (Fibrous Work Cast Slabs), 1/5; Concrete and Reinforced Concrete, by
W. N. Twelvetrees, 4/1; Practical Plasterer —Plain and Ornamental, by W. Kemp, 4/10 ; Elementary
Principles of Reinforced Concrete Construction, by E. S. Andrews, 11/6; Popular Mechanics’
Concrete Handbook—Containing Practical Plans, 7/-; Modern Furniture Veneering, by E. W.
Hobbs, 8/-; Upholstery, by John Davies, 1/5; Handy Electrical Dictionary (Weber) —Complete
concise, convenient, 2/6; Electric Bells, by M. B. Sleeper, 4/9; Arithmetic of Alternating
Currents, by E. H. Cropper, 5/9; Magneto Manual, by H. R. Longman, 11/8; Motors, Secdrdary
Batteries Measuring Instruments and Switchgear, by S. K. Broadfoot, 3/-; More Electrical
Apparatus Making, by A. V. Ballhatchet, 4/9 ; Diseases of Electrical Machinery, by E. Schulz, 4/-;
Management of Accumulators, by D. Salamons, 4/1; Induction Coils —Practical Manual, 6/4;
Electric Bells —Illustrated, by W. J. Saunders, 1/5 ; Mill and Factory Wiring, by R. G. Devey,
t/-; Polyphase Induction Motors, by R. D. Archibald, 7/11; Electricity for Marine Engineers,
by Ibbetson, 8/4; Electric Wiring for Wiremen and Students, by Clinton, 7/4; Electric Lighting
for Cycles and Motor-cycles, by Cross, 3/-; Domestic Electric Heating, by H. G. Solomon, 5/4 ;
Wiring Calculations for Light and Power Installations, by G. W. Lummis Patterson, 7/10;
ABO of Dynamo Design, by A. H. Avery, 4/9; Storage Batteries Simplified, by Page (Reduced),
8/-; Storage Batteries —'Stationary and Portable, by Niblett (Reduced), 2/8; Practical Refriger-
ation for Marine Engineers, by Roberts, 7/3; Cold Storage and Ice Making—Elementary Hand-
book, 4/-; Painting Ironwork, Steel and Metal, Cement, Plaster, Brickwork, Coloring and
Limewashing, by Savage, 1/5; Roofing, Slating and Tiling—Most Modem Methods, 1/5.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOUSEHOLD PACES
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.'
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
it Etc. Etc. Etc. ti
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6!
THE PATRIOT
|DIREa^EDiyM^WOMEN|
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
m
Mini
The service which a battery gives
is limited by its internal con-
struction. Instances can be given
where Exide Batteries have given
10 years’ continuous service with-
out being recharged from outside
sources.
The Lonji life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO .»i HOME LIGHTING
Obtainable from your Local Garage, Car Dealer or Exide Service Station.
fT.S.W. —Exide Battery Service (Gib-
son, Battle & Co., Ltd.), Hunt
and Commonwealth Sts., Sydney.
Vic. and Riverina.—A. P. Sutherland,
Queen’s Bridge, South Melbourne.
Queensland.—Exide Battery Service
(Q-), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Bris-
H 5 bane; Sturt Street, Townsville.
South Australia and Broken Hill. —
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Westralia.—M. J. Bateman, Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street,
Perth.
Tasmania.—Medhurst & Sons, Collins
Street, Hobart.
You’ll DBe
STEELE RUDD TELLS
HOW THE FAMILY FOUND OUT WHAT CITY
LIFE WAS LIKE.
TT will be a bright moonlight night, almost
| as bright as day—brighter than many
days—but there’ll be no inducement for
you to move out and walk about in it with
your concertina, “making sweet melody and
singing many songs.”
You’ve just returned from the city—from
Sydney, this time —where you’ve spent a
full month’s holiday, the first real holiday
you have had for six years. So you’ll be
sitting with your elbow on the table gazing
down at Rover scratching himself on the
floor at your feet, and enjoying the holiday
over again in your mind, smiling over some
of the incidents —even chuckling and rousing
Rover’s interest. He’ll suddenly cease pur-
suing the fleas and look up at you curi-
ously.
Dave and Joe Rudd, who have been look-
ing forward to your return, will enter upon
you with boisterous greeting, guffawing and
chuckling and passing a friendly word or
tw.o to Rover as one of the family.
“Gripes! Back again, eh, Dick?” Date
dropping into a chair without bothering to
shake hands will drawl, while Joe, squatting
near the ashes of the fireplace, will stutter:
“An’ n-not lookin’ too bad a-a-after it,
neither.”
“And blow me,” you’ll grin, looking hap-
pily from one to the other, “if I wasn’t
thinking about it, going all over it again just
when y’ came in.”
“W-w-what was y’ th-thinkin’ of it, D-
Dick,” Joe will ask—“th’ shop winders or
th’ coves s-s-sellin’ apples, or th’ g-girls?”
You’ll grin at Joe and answer: “There
was no end of shop windows, as many of
them as trees an’ logs between here and
Heaven knows where. And as for girls,
Joe, the flocks of them dressed up like rain-
bows and with skirts on them about as long
as emus’ tails that pour out of shops and
dens and lanes and holes and corners be-
tween five an’ six in the evening, after knock-
ing off work, as they call it, and rush for
trams an’ boats an’ trains an’ motor-cars—
it’d make you wonder whatever in th’
name of the milkcan in the corner there could
half o’ them find to do, or why tliey were
ever kept after being born!” ,
“When I was down,” Dave will put in
grievously, “none of th’ blokes ever did any-
thin’ either. There they was in mobs stuck
in offices and behind counters doin’ nothin’
that anypne could see ’cept pinchin’ th’ girls
an’ chasin’ ’em round tables pullin’ at ’em
an’ askin’ who they were out with on
Satu'dee, an’ did they want anyone with
’em on Sundee? Bee-hivin’ an’ sweet-
heartin’ is about what all of ’em do in them
places, I reckon.”
“I saw plenty of that, too. Dave,” you’ll
agree; “but what I was smiling to myself
most for was what I saw of the sort of life
they live in flats, as they call them.”
“What do y’ m-m-mean be f-f-flats, D-
Dick—f-f-flat heads?” Joe will ask.
“No —lucen flats, y’ goat!” Dave will
guffaw at Joe.
“They’re the places that thousands of
them live in,” you'll explain—“instead of
houses. Houses some of them were once, but
now made into kennels. And you never saw
the likes of some of them. What were man-
sions and halls and swell residences once
they’ve stuck three and four more storeys
on top and turned them into these flats—
‘self-contained homes,’ they call some of
them.”
“W-w-what does that m-m-mean?” Joe
will ask —“th-tliat they t-t-tucker them-
selves?”
“That I’m not certain about myself; but
those that I saw contained a couple of coves
or a couple of women, or perhaps a small
family. But all divided off into sort of
pens.”
“Same as we divide th’ cowstalls and pig-
sties?” from Dave.
“You’ve about struck it, Dave.”
“An’ quicker than he s-s-struck th’ g-g-
-gold he’s b-b-been lookin’ for up th’ g-g-gully
for th’ last y-year,” Joe will interrupt.
“Alwez puttin’ your spoke in where it
ain’t wanted!” Dave snaps, looking down
cynically upon his brother.
“It was McGreen who showed me some
of the flats,” you’ll resume. ‘ r He lives in
one himself. You chaps will remember him,
I suppose. He worked about here years
ago doing council jobs.”
Dave will have a recollection of him, but
Joe wall shake Ms head and thoughtfully
drop a fistful .of ashes into Rover’s ear.
The latter, will suddenly and vigorously
shake his head and throw some of the ashes
into Dave’s eye. Dave, rubbing the optic,
will reach for Joe and demand : “ ’Ere, what
th’ ’ell are y’ doin’?”
After chuckling at Dave, you’ll proceed
again :
“He left and went to Sydney when his
old man died, and became a land-agent and
a flat expert.”
“What’s a flat expert, Dick?” from Dave,
who’ll still be rubbing his eye. “Anything
to do with machinery?”
“A expert in f-f-flat-irons or s-s-some-
thin\ I s-s-pose.” Joe’ll venture.
“Goat!”—from Dave.
Explaining that you scarcely know what
it means yourself, you’ll go ahead: “Well,
Mac took me to this flat of his right at the
top of a pile of buildings as high as a
mountain; and to get up to his little ‘home’
we climbed the Lord knows how many steps
and stairs winding and zigzagging like that
old cattle-track over the range at Hirst Yale,
excepting that you saw no scenery or any-
thing to remind you there was a God or
Nature, but all walls, walls with doors in
them, shut tight like the doors of the cells
of a gaol.”
“Oh, ’ell!”—feelingly from Dave.
“And not the habitations of free white
people with nothing on their minds. And
so, when we reached the top, McGreen, stop-
ping before one of these doors and puffing
like a horse, took out his key of. it, flung
it open and pointed the way in lordly
sort of style for me to enter and sez, ‘There
you are, Dick —this is our headquarters.
Then he ivalks round pointing out the furni-
ture to me, and the different apartments,
and all the comforts of th’ darn caboose.”
“Pup-pup-partments?” Joe will query.
“That’s what Mac called them,” you’ll
answer. “Two rooms they amounted to —
and half of one was the kitchen!”
“And where th’ diggings did they have
their beds?” Dave will interrupt again.
“One bed was in th ‘front room’,” you’ll
grin, “along with the dining-table and the
mantelpiece and the chairs and packets of
cigarettes and beer bottles aiid photos of
girls high-kicking without a stitch ou.”
“It m-must have b-b-been as good as goin’
to th’ pup-pup-picture-sliow” —mirthfully
from Joe.
“ ’Cept that you didn’t pay anythin’, eh,
Dick?” Dave will add.
“The other bed, a sort of stretcher, was
in the kitchen, where there was more packets
of cigarettes and more empty bottles, and
a little gas stove with a dirty frying-pan
on it, and a toasting-fork and a billycan of
milk (about as big as a tin matchbox, the
billy was), and a sink full of cups and
saucers and plates waiting to be washed
up.”
“D-D-Dick, D-Dick,” Joe’ll object, “you
can’t s-s-stuff us that McGr-Green is livin’
in a place, 1-1-like that!”
“And thousands of others, Joe, as I’ve
told you.”
“Worse’n bloomin’ pigs!” Dave will grunt.
“Pigs!” you’ll exclaim. “Lots of them
think they’re princes and fairies. And to
see some o’ them coming out in the morn-
ings—laws ! Flash as racehorses.”
“And w-wimmen?” from Joe.
“Women and girls—‘flappers,’ ‘tarts,’
‘skirts,’ ‘flames,’ they call them —and smell-
ing like scented wheat and smut and covered
with powder and paint, half an inch thick on
some of them. ‘The secret of youthfulness,’
they call it —especially those who are about
fifty.”
“They ought to be hanged!”—from Dave.
“And the partitions between their flats
would make you fellow r s grin. Between
Mac’s kitchen and the one in the next
‘home,’ where a couple of tarts lived, was
only a light frame of board. A cat or a
dog could have knocked it over, and the
height of it was about five-foot-six. Hear-
ing some plates rattling and a pan sizzling,
Mac looked over the top of it and passed the
time of evening to his next-door neighbor.
Of course I had a look over too” —you’ll
pause to chuckle, while your listeners stare
in wonderment —“and, ghost! there were
women’s fancy things that had been washed
hanging across to dry on a string clothes-
line !”
“A clothes-l-l-line in the kuk-kitchen?”
Joe’ll repeat; and Dave will guffaw:
“Gripes, they’re worse than th’ blacks!”
“And, ‘Hellow, Miss Powdery,’ said Mac,
and of course, I pulled my head back, seeing
a woman there —‘getting ready for tea?’
“ ‘Trying to, Mr. McGreen,’ she answered,
‘and I’m all on my own. Mabel’s stopping
in town to have dinner at th’ Australia with
a friend ; then off for a motor-car spin.’
“ ‘She's, got all the luck,’ says Mac, and
winked.
“ ‘lt’s with a friend of hers whose up
from Adelaide for the Show.’
“ ‘Oh, yes, I see,’ says Mac, and winked
back over his shoulder at me.”
“S’pose he reckoned she was tryin’ to
pull his leg?” Dave will suggest innocently.
“Mac knew all right,” you’ll smile. “He
told me all about it afterwards. But to go
round the big places, in the city where the
eating-shops and lounges, as they call them,
are!” You’ll break out in a new vein, and
shift the venue. “At about eleven o’clock in
the day, and from five to six when a lot
of them have knocked off work —holy! You’ll
see how the woman with the new ideas can
put away cocktails, as they call ’em, and
gin and cigarettes; and plenty that haven't
got any ideas at all. And their lips—big
ugly lips a lot of them have too —red as
if they had been brought up eating
prickly-pear fruit! There you’ll see them
in scores puffing at cigarettes after sampling
th’ gin, showing their legs with silk stock-
ings on, crossing them and re-crossing them
to attract the attention of the men, and with
shoes costing two or three quid with silver
buckles and diamonds on them.”
“Gripes!” from Dave. “And who pays
for ’em?”
“Don’t ask me,” you’ll smile. “I asked
Mac. that question myself. But to see them
sipping th’ gin, then lifting their heads and
puffing out smoke like hens on a hot day
drinking water, was something to think
about.”
Here you will rise to welcome Ted Wil-
liams, telling him to come in—“there’s only
Dave and Joe here.”
“And w-w-wasn’t there any men among
them, D-Dick?” Joe will ask.
“Men?” you’ll echo, .sitting down again
at the table. “There were dudes and toffs
an’ bald-headed old blokes full of money.”
“And what would the men be doing,
Dick?” Dave will ask.
“Offsiding for tli’ women,” you'll answer
—“lighting the cigarettes for them as if it
was a favor worth a lot more than you’d
think, and beckoning to the white-coated
flunkies to keep the glasses full.”
“Cripes, eh!” from Dave.
“They w-w-would be the r-r-rams of th’
m-m-mob,” Joe will reckon; then Dave and
Ted Williams will join him in mirth.
“And to see them all squatting round bits
of tables, you 11 conclude—“nothing like
this one here o’ mine—with their legs coiled
round the legs o’ them, and around their
own legs, and around some of the old blokes’
kp’. and all of them looking like families
of silkworms groping blindly for each other
a tm—well it was all I wanted to see of
th city 1”


RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SCIATICA
If yon are a victim of Rheumatism,
dreadful Backache, if you are feeling
worn-out, hating work and with no
zest for pleasure, your strength just
giving out,” if you are having bad
nights, it is practically certain that
Kidney Trouble is the cause of your
serious condition.
o
x
This illustration shows the excess of
uric acid crystals formed in the blood.
These lodge in joints and muscles and
set up the inflammation that causes
the dreadful pain you refer to as
rheumatism , lumbago, backache, joint
pains, etc.
RATIONAL TREATMENT
As explained above, DeWitt’s Pills
constitute the ideal treatment for
uric acid ailments because they go to
the root of the trouole—the kidneys.
De Witt’s Pills have no effect on any
organs of the body except on the
kidneys. The ingredients have been
specially compounded for this purpose.
Try De Witt’s Pills now.
The kidneys, in health, act as the
great cleansing and purifying centre
for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and
pass out from the system any excess
of uric acid and other pain-giving
poisons. When they fail in their
duty, your health fails and pain
and suffering result.
As long as those harmful bacteria,
uric acid or poison (toxins) are in
the blood you will suffer. Oint-
ments used from outside will not
help you. There is only one thing
to do and that is to prompt the
kidneys to clear out from the body
the pain-giving impurities, and this
we tell you clearly De Witt’s Pills
will do.
It is no use doping the system
with heart-exciting drugs, pick-me-
ups or purgatives, when the trouble
lies in your kidneys. Get a bottle
of De Witt’s Pills to-day and start
to end your suffering and build
strength, vigour and vitality. De
Witt’s Pills, because of their pop-
ularity, have been imitated. Other
kidney pills there may be, but
for your own health’s sake, and
your pocket’s sake, refuse all im-
itations. Ask for and see you get
“ De Witt’s.”
Remember, every bottle of De
Witt’s Pills sold bears a guarantee,
and is backed by recommendations
of tens of thousands of cured suffer-
ers, many who have come through
years of untold agony to per-
fect health. The price of the
usual size box is 3/6 only.
Surely the expenditure of so
small a sum is well repaid by
the end of chronic suffering
and the return of splendid
vigour and vitality.
The following are just two of the letters constantly received:
WEEKS OF PAIN—QUICK RELIEF
Writing from 117 Warren Ed.. Marrick-
ville, New South Wales, Miss Beryl
Wallace says : —“ I suffered so badly with
pains in my joints that I was compelled
to g ive up my work and for nine weeks I
remained at home, in terrible pain all the
time. Finally, I g-ot a box of De Witt’s
Pills from the chemist, and by the time I
had taken six of the pills my pain had
B'one. I, can k° ne stly recommend De
Witts Puls to anyone.”
NEVER IN BETTER HEALTH \
Mrs. Dorothy M. Ren tel, “Riverlea,”
(Men Forbes, Gippsland, Victoria, says :
For six years I suffered very badly
from headaches, dizziness, and kidney
trouble. I tried many prescriptions but
could get no relief. I saw an advertise-
ment about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and decided to try them. I have
been taking - them for some little while,
and I have never been in better health in
all my married life.”
\V\\ A \ \ 11 11
\illll/Z////s
DeWITTS
\w
Mu
Jk
Invaluable in cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
LUMBAGO, BACKACHE
PAINS IN JOINTS, and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles
The Monument.
"R.I.G.'8"
LITTLE STORY OF A GIRL WHO FOUND HERSELF.
“Lord God of Hosts , be with us yet,
Lest we for yet, lest ice forget!”
VIBRANT witli emotion, voices trembl-
ing with the depth of their individual
feelings, the congregation ended the
song in a quavering cadence, and knelt
whilst a voice was raised in prayer. Then,
all eyes uplifted—some wet, some shining
with an inner fire, but all hearts stirred
to their deepest depths—they watched while
the flag was furled, revealing that marble
figure standing with reversed arms, facing
east, and guarding for ever the names of the
brave dead engraved on the tablets below.
There where the four streets met he stood,
gazing with his marble, sightless eyes to
where the sun each morn would rise for
the living breathing throng, and flood his
upright figure in its soldier’s uniform with
a rosy glow.
Back of him the long line of weeping fig-
trees spread and spread to the golden sunset,
where through the long nights they would
now keep vigil with him.
The benediction uttered, the throng dis-
persed ; but of the many who were there
at the monument’s unveiling, none was more
sadly stricken in heart than Valerie Deeping.
Ambition! When all men's sins are
totalled up and the reckoning comes, how
many lips will proclaim this as the way
of their downfall! Power, fame and wealth ;
social caste and love—all fought for, sacri-
ficed for, sinned for. No woman wills to
live in the same rut all her days, unloved,
unwanted, with the spectre of old age
beckoning in the background. Of this the
girl was very sure as she sat in her little
office, weighing carefully the pros and cons
of the matter, facing calmly the advantages
to be gained by such a step, and the dis-
advantages resulting.
For two thousand pounds is a goodly
sum for a woman to receive for a year of
her companionship, to say nothing of a
Continental trip and the sincere devotion
of a man whose affection she could not
doubt. But—and it was a big but —there
was also the dishonor of the thing to be
faced; even if her own little world should
never know or guess, she would feel debased
by deceit and greedy ambition, a thing un-
clean with secret shame. This thought she
resolutely pushed aside. Poverty she hated
with a bitter, rankling hate; from earliest
childhood it had been her one constant com-
panion, bringing in its train the class of
people whom she loathed with all her
fierce young soul—the uneducated, ignorant,
heedless, good enough for her parents, sup-
posed to be good enough for her.
By her own efforts, unaided except for
the terror ever urging her on lest she be
left to become one of the hated mob, she
had raised herself from the position of
domestic drudge to whoever cared to pay for
her services to that of confidential secretary
to this man, whose esteem had ripened into
affection and desire.
lor that Valerie was desirable there is
no denying. Always her eyes held a fright-
ened, childish look that gripped at a man's
heartstrings ; her little rounded form seemed
to be made for the crook of a man’s arm
cuddling and snuggling her to him; her
queer twisted red lips made men ache to
press them. But—and Valerie had learnt
this by experience—all men who spoke of
love did not speak of marriage!
Years and years ago there had been one
who loved with a clean man’s love. That
was in the days before one ever dreamt of
white monuments facing east, resting on
reversed arms and gazing with sightless eyes
upon the restless moving tide of humanity
surging for ever past. But the call had been
answered by one who had looked even as this
marble man ; uniformed, upright, eager and
clean. That last farewell had been both a
Heaven and a Gethsemane, when they had
clung together in a frenzy of passionate
love and foreboding. Now all that remained
ot that sweet chapter of life was the diamond
hoop aglitter on the wrong finger and a
photograph of a wooden cross on a grave in
France. Something very beautiful and sure
had gone out of Valerie’s life.
To Godfrey Winter she had clung in her
hour of crisis, sobbing out her heart in his
arms, feeling comfort in his warm sympathy
and desire to help her bear war’s cruel blow.
Since then his friendship had been a near
and dear thing; his insistent pleas for
more than friendship a nightmare, and his
moods of blind jealousy a Very H’ell. But
all this was known only to Valerie. To
outsiders he was a kindly, considerate em-
ployer ; the girl a competent, courteous
secretary.
Yet she stuck to her job—stuck to it
because some of the fight seemed to have
gone out of her; because her position carried
with it certain social standing, very dear
to her; because her lavish salary supplied
her every fastidious need; and perhaps be-
cause, having found a haven, she did not
wish to put out on Life’s sea again.
Now after years of striving for possession
of her—passionate, tender, brutal, pleading—
Godfrey Winter, florid, middle-aged, brilliant
yet gross had issued his ultimatum. That
lie would “play the game” by Valerie and
treat her fairly she knew full well, but he’d
be damned if he’d have this holding-out and
drawing-back business any longer. Sac must
decide now, one way or the other. And he
gave her details of his proposed plan. Twelve
months trip abroad at his expense (as
' niece” and devoted companion) and two
thousand pounds to be settled on her legally
sailed. On their return her
old 30b back again or not, as she wished. A fail-
offer. and laid down in no uncertain terms.
After a w-eek of conflicting emotions, tor-
mented by fear of the fatal step, dreading
the loss of this man’s affection and care (he
could ever draw her to him, intellectually
worshipping, in a way his amorous pleadings
could not do) she finally gave her answer.
Ihe man opened his arms and she went into
them, shuddering and shrinking under his
hungry passionate kisses.
“You little witch!” he whispered. “To
keep me dangling all these years!”
His hot breath seared her neck and she
broke away from him, terrified, repelled by
every decent instinct.
“All right, little white flower,” he said
gently. “Plenty of time for that, isn’t there?”
and released her at once.
She fled from his office, after giving her
promise to board the mail train that night.
Outside the chill of autumn was in the
air. Dusk had fallen and street lights
twinkled cheerfully. Valerie hurried down
the deserted street, her footsteps echoing
loudly. Where four streets meet she turned
her face to the western sky. A few last
sunset colors lingered faintly pink in the
twilight. Green weeping fig-trees nodded
gently in the evening breeze, seeming to
murmur to the passing girl “We know, we
know.”
From long l habit she turned to gaze at
the tall monument in its railed-in green grass
plot, with the silent motionless figure out-
lined against the sunset sky, capping the
tall column of white marble. Far and away
he seemed to gaze, into all eternity, seeing
perhaps those souls whose names were
graven at the base.
“Good-bye!” Valerie whispered. “Good-
bye to all that is clean and good and beauti-
ful. Good-bye to you, monument of Sacri-
fice and Honor. Good-bye to all illusions !”
Not a sound, only that silent figure watch-
ing. Towering above the trees, he seemed
to look down on her with a pitying gaze.
She seemed to hear him whispering:
“Was it for this, poor cowardly heart, that
these fiien gave their lives, striving to uphold
honor that bears no value? Was it for this,
poor, paltry soul, that a clean man went to
his death with your name on his lips? Was
their sacrifice not grea'ter than the loss of
your comfort? The months spent in filthy
trenches, the discomfort, the horror, the
agony—was it all in vain? Can you give
away with both hands what these men died
to keep? Traitor, deserter!”
And the green leaves of the trees whispered
m chorus, "Traitor, deserter !”
Tho years rolled back and unfolded sights
and sounds of other days. The bands, the
noise, the clamor. Each night fresh trainloads
of troops passing through on their way to
camp. The careless laughter of the boys;
the bitterness of farewell. The watching,
waiting months and years; the anxiety. The
poignant bitter-sweetness, of the patriotic airs
as some returned man was met at the train
and escorted home with pomp and honor.
The muffled drums as some poor mother’s son
was borne to his last rest after coming home
only to succumb to wounds or sickness. The
appalling casualty lists—the sad, stricken
faces of those whose loved ones would never
return. Was all this forgotten, of so little
value?
Her mind turned back to a long-ago day
when with exultant heart she had joined
the crowds thronging to the churches, had
sung, while eyes were a-swim, the hymns
of thanksgiving for Peace. She heard once
again a voice from the pulpit, shaking with
emotion, bidding them “remember always
your noble dead. As they gave their lives
for you, so give your lives to fit and proper
living for their sakes. Let neither thought
nor deed of yours besmirch their glorious
memory l”
And now there was no pity in those sight-
less eyes, only a stern, hard look, seeming
to say “Bestir yourself! Take the higher,
harder road, and reclaim your shameful
soul!”
Darkness descended in a sudden pall; only
the blurred outline of that silent, watchful
figure remained ; and, like some naked soul,
Valerie huddled her coat around her and
hastened home.
She went straight, to her room, after giving
the boardinghouse-keeper instructions not to
call her under any circumstances if the
telephone should ring. For that he would not
give her up without a struggle she knew well,
and shuddered as she thought of his rage.
For the first time she saw herself—in-
dolent, slothful, socially ambitious, willing
to sell her ease-loving body rather than exert
herself.
“Lest we forget, lest we forget!”
With a cry of sudden shame Valerie hid
her face, sobbing for the memory of that
Flanders grave and the nobler self she had
almost lost.
Long afterwards a shrill whistle brought
her trembling to her feet. Rush and rattle of
cars past the house told of departing pas-
sengers. lie would be there by now, walking
impatiently up and down the platform look-
ing furtively for her, while his wife’s good-
bye kisses and probable tears at their long
parting were still with him.
Two minutes to go ! Her heart was pound-
ing. What would he say and do?
Fascinated, she watched the clock. One
minute !
Shrilly, fiercely, the telephone rang.
Valerie opened her door and stood listening
to the voice downstairs.
“Miss Deeping? No, she’s not well—gone
to bed.”
Then a shocked exclamation, and she softly
closed the door as the woman rang off.
A moment later the news was delivered
gently.
“Such a dreadful thing! Poor Mr. Winter!
Killed outright in a car smash at the railway
gates. Oh, Miss Deeping—what will you do
for a job now!”
But Valerie said nothing. For now she
was seeing a calm, sightless face, turned
ever to the rising sun, which seemed to bid
her “Rise, gird on your armor and prepare
for the fight!”
One Fairy to Another.
( Mushka, the chrysanthemum-dweller,
seizes a butterfly.)
“Signor;—excuse me—by this light
Your cloak and feather show so white,
I mix you with the moon completely;
But, now I’ve found you, you must fight!’*
The rascal stabbed: the husband flew
Unto his spouse, who cried, “'Tis true!
You’ve pinked, alas ....the baker neatly!
We have no bread! What shall we do?”
N.B.W.
HUGH MCCKRAE.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
455 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE’’
Established 1854•
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care,
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,’’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Cbe new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and ‘‘up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the ‘‘N.Z. Referee
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Che mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). "THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
comipleteness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without "THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
tlx Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained, at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane ‘"Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking;
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SAVE YOUR ESTATE
from the heavy toll of
DEATH DUTIES
by effecting a Life policy for an ♦
amount to cover the duties.
A policy with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
provides the readiest, cheapest
and most effective protection.
ASSETS £83,000,000
INQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Agents everywhere in
#
s>
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
w.
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kerrtbla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, C.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The BULLETIN for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
è
( s e
#*• .-***
**- ••• ..'
e
-** <#
•'■'
4^


'mfiriji
/
I
J|
H
//£
V/
'07W77/;///' a
PSi
m
l
*96s
74 2
Au
* H<r t *o*s| J>«VTUI»*VSI- «*
WHITE HORSE
STILL BETTER AND OLDER
THAN EVER
WHITE HORSE has for years held the position of being
the leading whisky in Scotland. Its excellence of quality is
recognised everywhere.
During IQ3I it will be even better and older than before.
This is made possible by the vast stocks of the finest whiskies
laid down many years ago and now fully matured. If, there-
fore, you appreciate Real Old Scotch, always ask for, and
insist on having, the senior whisky of Scotland.
white horse
” Whisky
Sold, in various sizes of bottles—all bearing our
guarantee of perfect quality
