

Ws, '?s%'■ <?> - '
.
gsggMs v /; vf> s# M
■ ?^W:
I
; ; :" - ■
mmy
.
iWmMimmMit. I,
\ .-;■> y,* *
:
y
Xw? r
.... ~ _. .;■
as
mm.
m
lifpt S
f&f
feif'-r 11;
HKgi iliH
**• • #
§* Igr - ;
R&spi -•■■' * I- ,
■ I .-h ‘ ’ m" ,' -
; |hhß a
' If *&, X s
- « <y < 4 x /
x~»yv c- v ”l||r* x
. m- --, >
r mi
• ' Ilf * ,-’
I m 1 '» > i
r 7
&+~Zt
■
Hsn jiff;
•*•' ; f * s |?
■Jit JN
■MIMp
: ■ . -.'&«»**•
J
m
, F: te
I?'\\ '
■■fail
Jgy i *\ |,
lit !
■ wr
i
■ v*
rXXXi
fee * '
The Pride of Scotland
DEWAR
SCOTCH WHISKY
i ■ ■
I
»",-■>
l\r‘ Jj
v -y%§ ■
f
in
SS
T$ X , „ „,™,
■> X '
- yX ;;* .fi '
§& Sm
mSB. Si
lIS
HR
.jftKSBl
1
■
The Bulletin
to fi X
VoL 52.—N0. 2692.
Wednesday, September 16, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/'"NUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu Writing
yjUUM at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
- SEND THIS COUPON .
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 231
FOR ALL AFFECTIONS OF THE
THROAT,CHEST AND LUNGS
HUDSONS
EUMENIHOt
JUJU EES
Recommended by the medical pro-
fession for over 40 years, and uni-
versally regarded as the safest and
most effective safeguard against all
affections of the throat, chest and
lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
Established 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Butter Industry
RAPID INCREASE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
OVERSEAS TRADE OPENED
The first shipment of W.A. butter
was exported three weeks ago.
Nearly 1000 cases of butter were
despatched and further large con-
signments have been booked. Dur-
ing the last 10 years this industry
has made rapid strides, butter pro-
duction having increased from
2,000,0001 b. to
8,250 OOOlb.
THIS MEANS GREATER PROS-
PERITY FOR W.A. AND TRADERS
OPERATING IN THIS SPLENDID
MARKET.
REACH IT THROUGH THE
PERTH
®tueo
the Leading Weekly with a
State-wide Circulation.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and ‘ ‘up -to - the - minute
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Che mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY’ ’ is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average
Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Few Rhymsters
It is a curious fact, in a world which has
many wonders, that publishing firms which
seem to insist on some literary quality in
the prose they issue will yet shamelessly give
out volumes of verse of no quality what-
ever. Several publishing firms are very reli-
able in prose. You can, for instance, fairly
safely bank on the average T. Werner
Laurie issue being poor, and with equal
safety on the average Heinemann issue
being fair to good. The house of Dent has
the solidity of our house of Fairfax;
Cape and Gollancz are more exciting;
Methuen is comfortable; Hutchinson often
indifferent; and;so on. In verse I know of
no house whose stuff I’d care to risk on the
strength of the publisher’s name-. Any one
of them is likely to turn out good or
wretched work indifferently. So we have
such an otherwise reliable firm as Heine-
mann giving us the trashy, ineffectual star-
gazings of Augustus John’s young son
Romilly— Poems, by Romilly John (ss. net).
There is a charming frontispiece drawing of
the boj" by the father, the lad being caught
in a nice Keats-like pose, though nothing
could be less Keats-like than the so-called
“poems'.” I quote in support “The Sceptic,”
not because it is the worst, but because it
is the shortest: —
There came to me one who whispered, Lo and behold,
This earth, if an hour, is an iron of *ons old;
And all the matter which is contained in a rose
Before the oak, was, and after the dead immortelle,
After all sweet thoughts of .Heaven and dfeadful of
Hell,
Will be blown on an ignorant short- where no life
grows.
However famous a father, that is no excuse
for patronising him by publishing his son.
My savage objection is that this sort of
thing might possibly keep a better poet out
of covers, and certainly injures the repute
of poetry, which is unpopular not so much
because it is “difficult,” or because ' the
grind of the world and the spread of fatty
tissues rob people of their sense of rhythm
and beauty, but because to get at poetry
everybody who would has to wade through
whole swamps of Romilly Johns.
I take it, too, as another expression of
patronage that such a good firm as Duck-
worth should now issue the collected
“poems” of R. M. Mot tram— Poems Old
and New (Australian price, Ils. 6d., which
means anything from 4kl. upwards in Eng-
land). Mottram, who seems to have no
doubts- about the demerit of his verse trifles,
leans on that shaky reed, “by request.” By
request, be hanged! Or -at any rate, go
and shoot the publisher for insisting
on having “poems” on the jacket.
Softly I speed through the stillness,
Down into infinite dimness,
Utterly beaten and helpless,
Waiting the turn of the Wheel.
Covered and cloaked by the greyness,
I an impotent witness
How, by some merciful weakness,
We lose the desire to feel.
That from the author of The Spanish Farm!
“Oblivion” it is called, and a jolly good
place for it.
Instancing the utter unreliability of pub-
lishers where verse is Concerned, it is Duck-
worth also that has issued Collected Satires
and Poems, by Osbert Sitwell (14s. 6d. here;'
subtract 75 per cent, taxes on books, ex-
change, etc., and you have London price).
Osbert is not nearly the . poet his sister or
brother is, but at least he is not a pawky
mooner of 10-and-behold or we-lose-the-
desire-to-feel. His ruthlessness is a marvel-
lous antidote for that sort of thing. He
has, too, a virility to sustain it. Whether
his work is satire is questionable. I should
say it is much too direct to be rated so.
One does not call a midday barrage a satire
on the opposition’s trenches. Invective it
might be, or abuse. For a couple of hun-
dred pages Sitwell growls away magnifi-
cently. His war growls are not so good as
Sassoon’s, nor nearly so penetrating as
Housman’s; but they serve. Here is one of
them, “Judas and the Profiteer”: —
Judas descended to this lower Hell
To meet his only friend —the profiteer—
Who, looking- fat and rubicund and well,
Regarded him, and then said with a sneer,
“Iscariot, they did you ! Fool! to sell
For silver pence the body of God’s Son,
Whereas from maiming men with tank and shell
I gain at least a golden million,”
But Judas answered: “You deserve your gold;
It's not His body but His soul you’ve sold!”
Of the general satires, or attacks, the most
interesting to me is the literary one, flay-
ing a nest of London backscratchers, a
breed that flourishes remarkably, but not
peculiarly, well in England.
Another collection of the moment, and
much the best that I have to speak of, is
Martin Armstrong’s chuckling volume —
Collected Poems
(Seeker; 12s. 6d„
here; you in the
country, add a shil-
ling or more post-
age, and it’s yours).
I have admired
Armstrong’s delightful humor ever since,in
Georgian Poetry, 1920-22". I read the quaint
tale of Miss Thompson’s shopping. I have
lost none of that admiration through having
read this present collection, trifles and all.
Coming after remembered reading, of “Miss
Thompson” and others, the opening piece,
“The Cage,” held a mild shock: —
Man, afraid to be alive,
Shut his soul in senses five,
From fields of uncreated light
Into the crystal tower of sight,
And from the roaring winds’ of space
Into the small flesh-carven place
Of the ear whose cave impounds
Only small and broken sounds;
And to this narrow sense of touch
From strength that held the stars in clutch ;
And from the warm ambrosial spice
Of flowers and fruits of Paradise
To the frail and fitful power
Of tongues and nostrils sweet and sour.
And toiling for a sordid wage
There in his self-created cage,
Ah, how safely barred is he
From menace of eternity!
Quite good, of course; but what would one
expect to get from a poet who really felt
that way about the senses? Maybe another
round of Sitwellian roars, but scarcely
poetry. Fortunately, Miss Thompson is
memorably at hand to turn the page, and
lo and behold, as Romilly John would say,
one soon finds that Armstrong was only
fooling. Better still, that fooling is an in-
grained characteristic of his. Page after page
his muse smiles and sings> until near the
end she is shaking with laughter at the
harvest of Miss Thompson’s afternoon’s
shopping:—
But loudly, sweetly sang the slippers
In the basket with the kippers;
And loud and sweet the answering thrills
From her lone heart on the hills.
Not only a poet, but a cheerfuh poet! May
his tribe increase!
RED PAGE.
Frank Harris
The cables announcing Frank Harris’s
death give his age as 75. A little over the
Psalmist’s threescore and ten, yet it must
be said that he died a- young man, probably
planning new enterprises to the last and
buying up the pictures of obscure artists
that, he would have been able to sell at a
large profit in 20 years or so. He had an
unusual vitality, a physical frame that,
though small, looked like a trained ath-
lete’s. In advanced middle-age his eye was
as clear and his step as springy as a bird-
hunting cat’s. One could not imagine him
in slippers, podding off to sleep in a chair.
Perhaps it was his look of a man oi
action, his association with affairs, that kept
his literary achievement from being taken
with proper seriousness during his lifetime.
His early books of short stories, The Elder
Conklin and Montez the Matador, went
out of print almost as soon as they were
published. His Shakspearean criticism was
received with shrugs by the professorial
mandarins. He was regarded as an interest-
ing amateur. Yet over a period of 50 years
he wrote regularly—.-short stories, memoirs,
criticism, at least one novel—and not a
line of it put down perfunctorily, all of it
touched with his individual style.
I first met Harris in connection with a
short story I had written. He did, not like
the -ending, and asked me to come and talk
it over. It was only a matter of a few
words, yet so scrupulous was his regard for
a writer’s control over his own work that
lie would not alter it himself. At that time
he was engaged in several editorial ven-
tures—helping Austin Harrison with the
“English Review,” supervising “Vanity
Fair,” running a society paper he hoped
to sell at a profit as soon as he had brought
i r into prominence by the quality of the
stuff he was pouring into it. He was even
considering the idea of taking over the
editorship of the “Daily Herald,” the new
Labor paper that was struggling into life,
but the directors, sober trade unionists. Were
afraid of him and wanted to tie him up
with all sorts of restrictions,
A dark, intensely vital little* man, walk-
ing up. and down the carpet as if he were
caged, and pouring out his hates and en-
thusiasms in a flood of outrageous words!
They were mainly the hates and enthusi-
asms of a simple, clear-sighted man who
detested cant, loved bold and generous liv-
ing; but, there was always that touch of
rhetoric about him. He enjoyed the lift,
and roll of his words, enjoyed being carried
along on their tide. It is one of the defects
of his style, which, though muscular and
bare of adjectives, has always an under-
lying suggestion of oratory. Montez the
Matador feels as if it ought to be told aloud,
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
V
*
Anthony Horderns'
SITUATED IN BLOCK 14.
2/3 Sheeting
A Special Pur-
chase of Plain
or Twill Single-
fa e d White
Sheeting. 5 4
116
inches wide. Will wear and
wash well.
Price, per yard 2/3
Anthony Horderns’ Con-
version Price ......... 1/6
35/11 Blankets
White Blankets at half
price! Full standard size
and weight. Superior
quality. Size 63in x 8 1 in.
17111
Secure a pair now at this exceptional
price. Price, pair 35/11
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 17/11
4/9 Damask at
An amazing bargain in
superior quality White
Mercerised Damask. In
several attractive designs.
2/9
Save 2/- on every yard you buy. f Width
67in. Price, yard .. . . .i. . 4/9
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price . 2/9
2/11 Sheeting
4500 yards White Sheet-
ing. Plain. In a depend-
able wearing quality.
Width 80 inches.
ďfď
d f
Price, yard 2/11
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 1/11 2,
Special
Ticking Purchase
-f ■v : \’ i, - ' "I'- ■ ' , '
Special purchase of 13,120 yards of
Ticking from Omega Patent Mattress Co.,
Ltd., now offered at less than to-day’s
landed cost." < j ; '
... \ Conver-
sion
1 « -Price. Price.
1406yds. Damask Ticking
USE OUR D. P. S.
Deposit-Purchase System.
(Manchester, First Floor. We Pay Carriage .)
%
r
n
■7=*
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MARK FOYS SNOWS R. H. GORDON
THE HUB STONEWALL JACKSON FAYS EDWARD ARNOLD
t
Commencing to-day, the greatest money-saving event that
Sydney has ever known —“Price Conversion Period” at
Anthony Horderns’. Prices were never lower! Values
never greater! Be economical! Shop at Block 14—
“The People’s Shopping Centre.”
10/6 Men’s Coat Shirts
716
In English
Broadcloth.
m
mr ' f >
*
214
These shirts have smart shaped collar attached, and two
pockets with button cuffs. The colors are Blue or Fawn
shade. Size 14-§ to Ineck. Price 10/6
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price 7/6
Men’s Athletic Singlets
re
Men’s Athletic
Singlets! Unbeatable
value in these popu-
lar summer garments
of White Cotton,
Elastic knit, stout
weave. Art. silk
bound neck and arm-
holes. Sizes 34 to 44
chest.
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price,
1/6
( Men’s Mercery, Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carnage.)
“ACME” Briar Pipes
d
A special purchase of “Acme” Briar
Pip es. Silver-mounted, vulcanite
mouthpiece. London made. A good
range of popular shapes.' Price, 3/-’
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 2/6
(Pipes, Ground Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
5/3 Cups and
Saucers
Cups and
Saucers! Black
decorated edge.
In two popular
shapes. Made
4(75
from a reliable quality china.
Price, half dozen 5/3
Anthony Hordern’s Con-
version Price 4/7-a-
( China, Third Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.)
Peek Frean’s Biscuits
ď
'*sr
*O.
<«
Btm
The variety comprises Butter Puffs, Cup
Cracknell, Biskwheat, Buttery, Polo,
Cheese Assorted, Nice, Afternoon Tea,
Chatsworth, Shortcake, Barbary and
Assorted Shortcake. Price, lb. .... 2/4
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price, lb 1/.
( Grocery, Ground ■_ Floor, *: Goulburn Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Reliable Alarm Clocks
112
m
2
Horn
4
clox
Atlas Radiant
1
1
“Homeclox’’ reliable Alarm Clocks.
Atlas high. Bell at back. 4in.
radium dial. Price 13/6
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 8/6
Travel Goods Special
f
d
ďf
Merino Wool Rugs. In a wide range of
choice designs and color effects. Fringed
ends. Pattern is woven right through
rug. Size 60in. x 80in. Price . . 42/-
Anthony Horderns'
Conversion Price 32/6
Solid Leather Attache Cases. Made from
smooth surface genuine cowhide. Frame
round body of case. Two secure locks.
Size 16in. Price 25/-
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 13/6
• (Travelling Goods, Ground Floor.
Carriage Paid on Rugs only.)
d
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ď


Your trip to
ENGLAND via AMERICA
shorter 9 enjoyable . economical
wmm
mm
m*.
I
4 -**
■jj, (ifft yj'? 3 '
am
'Ammmrnmm
\ 2L 4 -
m
S\ ■!
■;:■>':■iVS?*
•mm
Li 4
/• <C
4 1.&
X \ M
<< \ %'. 1
:W
-■... \ \\% • X
THOUGH the route is most
direct... and speedy... your
voyage home by Matson Liner,
via America brings you to
countless places you have
longed to visit.
Leaving Sydney, you enjoy day-
light stops at Auckland, Suva
and Pago Pago...a glorious in-
terlude of Hawaiian thrills with
time for bathing at Waikiki and
for an island tour ... then ro-
mantic San
Francisco
w ith all of
America be-
yond.
Making Drama in Holly-
wood-Clever directors
and famous dogs making
an "AlLBarkie."
Scenic highways be-rib*
bon the tops of many Am-
er can mountain ranges.
f
MATSON SHIPS provide *>
happy AMERICAN PRELUDE
You may speed across the con-
tiuent and reach your Atlantic,
liner in four days, or your tick-
et allows more leisurely travel
to points of great interest. \
Only one ticket is needed. You
make all arrangements before
you leave Australia. Expenses
in America are truly modest
... your entire trip may be fi-
nanced most reasonably. Let
us give you full information
and an illustrated booklet.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
12 Bridge St., Sydney Telephone 87981-3
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
’ With which is amalgamated,
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
.
o of
© ©
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: ?9 Threadneedje St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and. Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
BRITAIN —Maße Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by,- the
L. N.E.R.
Up 'to. Scotland by, the “Flying; Scotsman” —8-J hours’ non-stop rVm: . - - " . :
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurants Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THU LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply /or full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling facts.
POST FREE
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr.
G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6 ; The Perfect Wife,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Women and Love, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Complete
Husband, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Marriage Before and After, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale.
1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G.. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J.
Rutgers, M.D., 15/6 ; Methods of Birth Control Explained, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Pitfalls
of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical
Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical Culture,
6/3 ; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
3/3j Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine,
11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes,
7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichael
Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young, by Marie
Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex Factor in
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-; Hygiene of
Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Exercises for
Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; The Doctor
at Home, by Geo. Black, M.D., 8/-; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails and How
to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4 ; Foulsham’s Letter
Writer, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card
Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, 1/5;
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
CONTRACT BRIDGE.
BLUE BOOK for Beginners and Advanced Players, by
Ely Cuthbertson, the recognised authority on contract.
New supply just arrived.
Chapters on Card Valuation, Partnership, Language, etc. Breaks new
ground for experts in the higher strategy. Distribution and Bridge Psy-
chology. Portland Club laws are included. PRICE, 8/6, post free.
Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table
Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand
Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquiri, 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The New Foi'd, by E. T. Brown,
4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; How to Read the Hand,
by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for
Amateurs, 1/11 ; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Upholstery for Amateurs, l/ll;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Calssell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2 ; Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage,
1/6; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-; What to Draw and How to Draw It,
4/10; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Handbook, by
Edward T. Brown, 5/5; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 3/- ; How to Drive a Car, 4/1; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock
and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A.
Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for
Australia, 2/3; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/6; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3; Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6;
A to Z of Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2 ; Fortune Telling by Tea.-leaves, 2/-; Diesel
Engine, by Jones —Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance. 5/3; 1001 Riddles,
New and Old, 2/2; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3 ; Hypnotism Made Practical, by J. Louis Orton.
3/11; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LIST&'.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
u I wouldn t miss
this night-cap for
worlds... McCallums
certainly puts me right
till the nwrninq! ”
OTCallums
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney- Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide, LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.


m YTysnrj/hKA Hikes
*r ' > t S T 4<^«
* „ V ;
3T ’ '
* V
,*♦
idte
tWy sell
i y'>
• 1
r>\
\
:•■ \
>"5
* '
CTN
#:■ >
I i
SI
■
n
jf* y
m
m
m,
L*m K
m
k /m
tM
- A -'-.• , .-';
with accompanying gestures and mimetics.
The Bomb, for all its apparent restraint,,
plays upon the nerves of political and social
Perhaps this was partly due to his method
of work. The Bomb, for instance, is a
novel of average length, and yet he wrote
it (dictated it, rather) in a little over a
fortnight. The young German who tells
the tale is obviously Harris himself, and
in reading it one always has the feeling ot
a man walking up and down, soliloquising,
pouring out his experiences to an actual
audience. He was a great talker. It is the
voice of a talker that comes through, not
the still, small voice of a writer who sits
alone, qualifying his nouns, modifying his
verbs, trying to get at his own exact truth
for some private and secret satisfaction.
Like Wilde, Cunninghame Graham and
others of his generation, Harris was the
man of action turned into the paths of
literary adventure. But there were deeper
conflicts in him. His dark eyes, shooting
out half-furtive, half-bold glances from be-
neath their level brows, showed this plainly.
I remember seeing a letter from Shaw to
him once-.
“What an extraordinary mixture you are,
Frank,” wrote Shaw, “with your hooligan-
ism, your silk hats, your financial jobbery
and your great literary gift!”
He was essentially virile, and yet he
had strong erotic obsessions. He was demo-
cratic and revolutionary by instinct, but one
would never guess it to see him curled and
oiled, with a strip of lilac edging his white
tie and white waistcoat, bowing low over
the hand of some duchess at the entrance
of the Ritz salon on Sunday evenings.
There was no doubt about his generosity.
He befriended countless young writers and
artists, even Labor leaders like Ben Tillett,
whom he used to whirl off periodically for
a rest-cure to his luxurious summer home
in the Riviera. But he could be close in
small matters. Richard Middleton, the
poet, who committed suicide in Brussels,
was one of the men for whom he did most.
He took him into his home, introduced him
everywhere, made a reputation for him in-
side a year; yet Middleton sometimes hung
about the offices of “Vanity Fair” for weeks
waiting for the few shillings Harris owed
him for his verses.
Doubt is often thrown on the authenti-
city of his literary portraits. It is unlikely
that Carlyle ever unlocked his heart to him
in the way Harris represented; dubious
whether he even met some of the people
he described. He was careless in matters
of pure fact. I once heard him say he had
been in Sydney, even attended the Univer-
sity for a while; there seems to be nothing
to corroborate it. He wanted to persuade
himself he had been eA*erywhere, experi-
enced eveiything. But in a literary way
he had a remarkable sense of where the
truth lay and never sheered away from it.
Once in reviewing Arnold Bennett’s Old
Wives’ Tale he quarrelled with a descrip-
tion of a guillotine execution, and showed
how it should be done from the point of
view of an eye-witness. Bennett was struck
by the vividness and truth of the descrip-
tion, and wrote thanking Harris, and admit-
ting that his own account was inadequate,
as he had never seen the guillotine at work.
Harris’s answer was short:
“My dear Bennett, neither have I.”
Altogether he was one of the most re-
markable personalities of his time, though
if, is doubtful if much of his work will
remain. Some of his short stories, cer-
tainly, are worth preserving, and The Bomb
is more than a human document.
VANCE PALMER.
A Pioneer Poet
Queensland’s two pioneer poets were
Charles Frederick Chubb (a solicitor, and
father of the.late Mr. Justice Chubb) find
Alexander Forbes (brother of Archibald
horbes, the war correspondent). Chubb was
a copyist of the eighteenth-century clas-
sical school; Forbes sought to become a
bush Burns. He had been at Aberdeen
University, but was sent down for ragging
a professor, and drifted to Queensland,
working as goldminer and fossicker. In
1869 he published Voices from the Bush,
fluent, careless doggerel, poor stuff when
considered as literature, but full of vigor,
vivacity and genuine poetic heartbeats.
Alter that he had a rough passage and died
at Toowoomba some years later. Now
comes the news that his right name was
Patrick Steuart Forbes.
Last January Youngson and Bain, soli-
ot' Aberdeen, advertised in the
’ Brisbane Courier” asking for information
about Patrick Steuart Forbes, born 86 years
ago, a brother of Archibald Forbes, the
war correspondent." A Brisbane man sent
a ream of particulars about Alexander, with
some of his verses; lie mentioned, among
other things, that the brothers met in Bris-
bane in May, 1883, and that Archibald’s
poem ‘A Poet Waif” was written in com-
memoration of that meeting. A reply has
been received from Youngson and Bain
intimating that the correspondence need
not be continued. They had asked for
information about Patrick Steuart Forbes,
Archibald Forbes was named Alexander
there must be some mistake.”
a sta^e was niade, and it looks as if
Alick disapproved of the names given to
him by his parents. Perhaps his Scottish
soul objected to Patrick, which would have
been shortened in those days to Paddy, and
perhaps Steuart was too aristocratic for his
radical temperament. At all events, he
called himself Alexander, or Alick for short,
in that poem in which he says “the hour
has come when Alick has to hump his
drum.”
This phase of Alick’s radicalism may be
interesting to those who know something
of the gold-digger’s slangy but very human
doggerel.
FIRMIN MCKINNON.
A Satcnel of Books
The Blanket of the Dark, by John Buchan
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymocks; 7s. 6d.
net). Greenwood plotting to set up on Eng-
land's throne Peter Pentecost, or Bucking-
ham, chivalrous Jove and godly scruples
interfering. A wandering but otherwise
charming historical tale, bright with the
color of its day.
Blood Money, by John Goodwin (Putnam;
7s. 6d.). Ken Rolfe, handsome, manly, straight
as a gun-barrel, the son of a peer, tells the
yarn in the staccato, self-depreciatory manner
of an English gentleman. It concerns the
phenomenally brainless efforts of a band of
crooks to murder an American heiress for her
millions. You’ll be pleased, if not surprised
to know that Ken marries the heiress, having
fallen in love with her before ho knew she
had any money.
Give All to Love, by Austin Phillips
(Methuen: 7s. 6d.), is misrepresented by a
‘‘Family Herald” title and an awful dust-
jacket. It’s a perfectly good thriller, with
many interesting and knowledgeable pictures
of rock-bound Uslxant and rural England.
Henry Foster is more like a real-life black-
mailer than anyone the writer has met in
fiction for a long time, and the Breton hero-
ine is a first-class portrait of a Nice Girl.
Conversations with George Moore, by
Geraint Goodwin (Benn; Roycroft; 13s.
6d.), is something added to Moore; worth
reading, both on account of and apart from
its subject, blended qualities illustrated well
enough in this mere footnote: —
Without a breach of confidence, I may add that
Mr. Galsworthy has been unable to impress him, it
is “so obviously written down”; Mr. Lawrence is
“a man of talent but unbalanced”; while for Con-
rad he has no appreciation at all, remarking that
“anyone might write this stuff about ships dis-
appearing in a blue mist.” Of Mr. Chesterton he
will not commit himself beyond the fact that he
finds him amusing, and likes him, on the whole,
better than his friend Mr. Belloc. On the other
hand, Mr. Bennett’s work, his earlier books in par-
ticular, he holds in esteem, particularly The Old
Wives’ Tale.
It would be wrong to assume ou that, how-
ever, that Moore is not a critic. He is
equally unsparing of his own work, apart
from The Brook Kcrith, as of anybody else s.
Goodwin has caught him in a clear and
steady light.
Humbert Wolfe has fired the opening gun
in a new “Modern Writers” offensive with
George Moore (Harold Shaylor; Roycroft;
6s. 6d.). Promised numbers arc Alfred
Noyes, by Walter Jerrold; Andre Mwurois,
by David G. Larg; William 11. Davies, by
Thomas Moult; W. B. Yeats, by Y T iola Gar-
vin; and James Joyce, by Louis Golding. If
Wolfe’s contribution could be taken as a
criterion, each of the series will contain more
words than are usual in the newspaper
article, but little more substance. But
AYolfe, in this mood, is not a criterion for
anything. He is just a stumbling and awk-
ward groper.
And a Little Verse
RAKE’S HOLIDAY.
’Twere better in a field to lie
And hear the bob-o’-link
Than, waking, in this city sty,
To start when watchmen clink
Their ] anthorned staves across the stones;
Or else when, through the fog,
The dead-cart trails poor flesh and bones
Before a bastard dog.
But though I’m going now from hence,
Gadzooks, I shall not stay
If I find only innocents
Play sweethearts in the hay!
N.s.w.
HUGH MCCRAE.
EARTH-SHACKLED.
I must be still till peace and beauty knock
Upon the storm-swept portals of my heart,
While swift to rusty bolt, and bar, and lock,
My eager shaken hands will wildly start;
For then my dear dead lover must return.
That he shall come I know, if my tired
brain
Will cease to madly throb and ache and burn
With tortured thoughts of sorrow and
stark pain.
So I must yearn to little purling streams
Bottomed with golden sand, and dimpled
stones
That glow like opals where the shallow
dreams;
Hearken to how the wild wind cries and
moans,
Beating the pane like some lost frightened
child!
O Mother Mary, let my heart grow still 1
And I must dream a cottage, crimson -tiled,
Set like a-rose upon an emerald hill,
Where in a garden spires of blue larkspur
Reach up in splendor to a woman’s hips,
And brown bees cling and hum close—close—
to her,
While butterflies blow past her laughing
lips.
Oh, I must steep my being and my mind
In all the beauty I have ever known!
I must forget life’s sadnesses and bind
My soul to love and peace and joy alone !
But may I blind my eyes until no more
I see the new-shorn sheep, sad one by one,
Half-frozen, fall and lie, while bleak and
raw
The wind-blown sleet blots out the sorrow-
ing sun?
And shall my ears be muffled till at last
I fail to hear the pain-racked thrilling cry
Of some trapped furry thing, held cruelly fast
To beat its life out ’neath a chill night
sky?
How may 1 keep my heart from straining free
To sodden meads, where lambs an hour oid
Cry with child voices thinly terribly—
Until like them my naked soul lies cold?
TASMANIA.
NORMA L DAVIS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.P.: Nice lines in “Worshippers.” But
such a lightweight.... T.P.R.: Same to you; you
make a good picture, but it is too much upholstered.
W.R.C.: You take much too long getting down
to it... .Menura: Not keen on the question-and-no-
answer sort of verse.... R. 0.: “The Spanish Dance”
is the better, but both a trifle stagey.. . .J.E.F.: Not
quite... .A.A.: Overcome by the first stanza: —
Should I be in bad odor
If I dwelt in a pagoda
With a trousered and a blousered
And a whiskered mandarin?
. ...R.R.: The triolet has the advantage over most
of its breed in that it at least is one. But the
thought is slight... .H.S.E.S.: Reads like a wireless
advt Bannerman: That’s too obvious to be
parodied here... .Spindrift: Doesn’t convey whatever
it is you seek to convey... .A. S.: Not enough in
either... .A. T.E.: Gone the sad way of spring poems.
. ...A.G.M.: Slight.... Gemma: That sort of thing
can be done only once... .M.E.M.G. (or thereabout):
Even the marching song refuses to move... .M.J.C.:
Some swung in it, but it’s in an old groove....
D.E.T.: Can’t believe that is verse. .. .F.L.M.: “Fate
Stings” the deaf ear of the cashier.... Coral Jack:
Try your hand at writing a few. They’re not being
printed because they’re not being written.... E.E.W.:
“Oh, I am the spirit of winsome spring.” Accept your
word for it....Redlyn K.: Too much of a struggle
to get it out... .C.E.S.: Can’t find a new observa-
tion in it... .R.W.P.: Still too diffuse. It isn’t only
a matter of length; it’s what you say in it....
W.A.C.: Not to this fancy, though others might
like it... .lI.W. :" “Rejected” was the closest for a
long time. .. .5.8. C.: Yes; but you’ll need to find
newer stuff for them than your verse is made of. ...
N.P.: Boomerang verse... .William P.: You haven’t
“Bellerive’s” fine consistency.... J.C.G.: Nice, but
slight... .W.H.T.: Series of questions, to which the
answer is “N 0”... .P.W.8.: Lacks a reason... .F.K.:
Too much of the sing-song... .G.T.: Overcome by
the proiundity of “All loveliness would be of little
worth if it were hid, by darkness, from our sight.”
... .Ismay: Not quite there, but liked it better the
further it went, and that is seldom the case.
. ...S.W.: Thin little story... .R.W.A.: “Hope”
abandoned... .li.C.: “The Toy Seller” doesn’t tempt
a bid....H.F.: Fancied the writing better than the
written.... Bellerive: Yes, certainly:—
JAMES HEBBLEWAITE.
English born and educated,
Memories in he’s manhood prime
Awakened cherished recollections
Of he’s far-off native clime.
A man of pure and gentle nature,
A poet and a guiding friend.
With love for verse and reverent teaching
lie voyaged to he’s journey end.
... .H.C.: London (7,480,201), New York (6,981,927),
Berlin (4,000,000), Chicago (3,375,329), Paris
(3,000,000), Osaka (2,115,000), Tokio (2,000,000),
Philadelphia (1,964,430), Buenos Ayres (1,860,000),
Vienna (1,842,000), Moscow (1,700,000), Detroit
(1,573,985), Canton (1,370,000 W.G.8.: Yes ; but
even then male negro slaves wei'e greatly. in excess
of females. Bryan Edwards estimated the ■ imports
of negroes into the British colonies of North America
and the West Indies from 1680 to 1786 at 2,130,000.
In 1790 Virginia contained 200,000 negroes... .L.S.:
Maggie Moore died at San Francisco, March 15, 1926.
.... W.R.A.: Found the matrimonial troubles of the
old prospector -wearisome... .H.E.A.S.: Conventional.
.... J.M.: Rewriting didn’t improve it much... .D.F. -
A senile p10t... .J.A.: Going buck... .C.L.A.: A color
or two, so try again... .E.J.R.: Daily-paper stuff for
the silly season... .M.L.: Thought you knew your
Bulletin better... .F.D.: The pool doesn’t sparkle.
G.L.M.: Crowded 0ut.... R.L.P.: Might have
passed if the plot had been stronger... .K.P.: Stick
to your own opinion .next time... .A.G.: Crude....
J. J.M.M.: It set all the other inmates of w.p.b.
weeping... .S.T.: Not putting our brand on it. ...
S.F.: Another dull encounter with bushrangers. They
come in at the rate of a score a month. . . .J.U.C.:
Dreary, and you had the makings of a good plot,
too E.D,': Needs to be more forcibly t01d....
H.E.R.8.: Spent a few unhappy minutes with “Happy
Days” T.C.: Slipped.... P.A.: Absurd.... C.L.A.:
Not enough punch....R.C.H.: Ah, this will pull
their heartstrings:—
. “Buy me ah beer,” he asks ; ’tis liis “pass’"
As he drifts to your side at the bar.
You start out to scoff, but hand him a glass
A fine scholar that’s fallen afar.
Years pass away, a body is found,
Just a derelict old and forlorn;
You fancy you hear, though he utters no sound,
“Buy me ah bier”—and you mourn.
... .E.C.H.: Lindsay’s drawing was based on a report
which divided the Communists of Russia into two
' sections—one the mob, the other “the little men
with the black bags,” the bureaucrats... .Twilight:
A grin in it; but not quite wide enough. .. .Widow’s
Mite: Worn to rags.... Jean C.: You never felt, a
bit of it, and that makes it merely a. literary exer-
cise... .H.G.: Only jingle. And get that name right
—“pittoeporum”.... Toi-toi: The Office Cannibal says
lie has tasted better. Also he prefers ’em cooked.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.D.: Decorative, but there’s no sparkle in the
jest.... R. 8.: Drawings all seem to be copies. Tell
the lad to send something original.... F.K.: Tha t
sort of stuff won’t endear you to art editors... .F. P.:
Too many artistic accidents... .C.C.L.: Practice might
pull you through... .G.G.8.: The pram looks as big
as a ’bus... .H. 8.: Better learn to draw one figure
well before you start to handle crowds... . M.R.:
Linework too faint... .8.F.P.: Not a cheerful lot.
. ...V.R.: A first attempt? No need to stress the
obvious.... J.W.: Neat, but without humor....
H.M.A.: You will have to acquire other assets ; self-
confidence is not enough.. . .S.R.J.: No American
college humor, thanks!... .A.K.: The answer is in
the negative... .N.H.H.: By no means hopeless, but
you need heaps of practice... .T.D.: The lettering is
the best part of it. .. .A.S.: Can’t judge from copies.
. ...C.R.: You’re on the lowest rung and likely to
stay there... .1.G.M.D.: You crash when you try to
be funny... .C.A.: That wheeze was exhausted 30
years ago. .. .C.J.: A political cartoon needs to be
simple and striking. Yours is neither... .J.8.L.:
Jacky looks like a Chinese and talks like a negro.
..W.A.S.: What the toothless grumbler said to his
beery mate is uninteresting... .F.D.: Don’t know
whether you can draw a girl out of a hammock, but
you can’t draw a girl in one... .C.W.: He’s no states-
man, but lie’s not cross-eyed, pot-bellied and bandy.


ď
FAMOUS
WINES
s
■ ■
r ’
I ' s?
m §
vm
w%
-
V. •>:
0
■
I m
■■p
V
HI
m
: : ;;
■ 4
v:.,- •••"
W f
1 lIP ; -' ;
m
fflpQ&aw'-t' mm
l&r . m
'
WM 8» igfcil
itll llii
I
■
;
m
mm
...
; AV-
■
'
*m
'■•'l
■: j;-;:
:
w/ .
**•* >A
»-•/
*?'
m
M
s
P If:
■ Wsgr
K jPwiP.
<s
000mm/€ n&vesi'


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2692.
September 16, 1931.
FIDO-IN-THE-BOX.
"It was suggested last week that the only alternative to the granting of further large bank loans for the relief of unemployment was. a policy of inflation. "
"You’d better do the right thing, Sir Robert, or we won’t be able to keep something dreadful from hopping out of this.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2t' t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ■Phone 87971.
Victoria : lVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, 1 V.C.2.
Temple Bar 3793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 -).5.; 6 months, 12s. bd.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. sd.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
■ld. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
THE FIRST STEP TO
RE-EMPLOYMENT.
The committee appointed by the Premiers’
Conference to suggest ways of employing
the unemployed dwells far too much on
public works. They are the last things that
should be thought of. Australia’s urgent
need is increased production; public works
represent hardly anything but consumption
so far as the immediate present is con-
cerned. Australia wants a quick harvest;
it has already sunk hundreds of millions in
works which may pay their way a half-
century hence, but to-day provide nothing
towards their own keep. Credit cannot be
got by honest methods for such enterprises.
Credit is available; but it is ordinary com-
mercial credit—the credit which wants to
know when and how it will be repaid.
This matter of credit is ttie most import-
ant with which we have to deal. Its collapse
is at the bottom of most of our troubles,
and upon its recovery depends our return
to prosperity. It may be that the present
system of banking and credit is all wrong.
Whole libraries have been written on the
subject, and many more will be written.
If we wait till the question is settled, we
shall starve meantime. There is no hope
of the present credit system being materially
altered within the next two years; and do
we propose to drift on for two years, the
position getting worse with each month?
As practical people we must accept things as
they are so far as this crisis is concerned,
and fight our way through.
Mr. Lang told the Premiers the other
day that Australia was carrying on its busi-
ness under a bank inspectorship. But if this
is disgraceful, the disgrace lies wholly with
the politicians and not at all with the
bankers. The bankers made no terms when
they first lent their money to the politicians;
but since then the politicians have defaulted
—Mr. Lang most conspicuously—and have
lately demanded and extorted concessions
in interest and terms of repayment. Now
the same politicians are applying for more
and still more money; and nobody knows
better than Mr. Lang that the bankers
would be great fools if they did not look
into their prospective clients’ position, watch
carefully their expenditures, and lay down
terms for any further loans. It is the only
possible attitude of the lender towards the
borrower, no matter who the lender may be,
no matter whether it is banker or anybody
else who, in the popular jargon of the day,
“extends the credit.”
Three things, then, seem clear: (1) that
credit must be forthcoming before any
employment on a large scale can be given;
(2) whatever the future may hold in the
way of new credit systems, the bankers
are the only people who can give credit in
time to be of any service in this present
crisis; and (3) it is the duty of the banker
to satisfy himself that the interest on his
money can be earned and that the principal
will come back to him. Some of us have
an idea that he loves to shut himself up
with vast stores of wealth and refuse all
applications for loans. Nothing could be
more foolish. The banker’s business is to
lend money. No banker ever made a penny
by borrowing; that, indeed, is only a way of
going into debt. It is by lending that he
may not only wipe out the debt but make
a bit for himself. He knows, too, that until
credit is forthcoming prosperity will not
return. He knows, in short, that either he
or somebody else must lend before the
unemployed can get back to work. Yet
he hesitates to do what he knows must be
done because he cannot satisfy himself that
under present circumstances either the inter-
est would be earned or the principal would
come back to him. He is, of course,
assailed as a bowelless person who closes
his purse in the face of distress. But what
would happen to the new Savings Bank of
N. S. Wales if as fast as the depositors paid
in their money, the Commissioners poured it
out to those who told tales of distress?
What happened to the old bank after Mr.
Lang had listened to tales of distress and
had left himself unable to pay the interest
he had undertaken to pay? Though it is the
business of the banker to lend, the case of
the G.S.B. shows that it is the bounden
duty of the lender to satisfy himself about
the borrower’s capacity and willingness to
pay. Had the G.S.B. done that there would
not now be a hundred thousand sorrowing
depositors in N. S. Wales—many of them
more than sorrowing; many of them dis-
tracted.
Further, the banks have the credit, That
is not to say they have the money in their
safes; they haven’t. But they can “create
credit”: this means that they can guarantee
Smith’s payments to Brown, if they are
sure that Smith will presently be able to
produce the cash. That is the indispen-
sable thing: evidence that the credit —the
money advanced—will be paid off in due
time.
And that is the whole reason why money
is not being advanced to-day, even to start
or extend the most necessary industries.
The bankers lack assurance that, if they
advanced money to the wheatgrower, he
would be able to repay it out of what will
be left of his wheat cheque after he has
paid for labor, stores, freight, etc.; they
lack assurance that, if they advanced money
to a manufacturer to enable him to put up
a stock of mousetraps, he would be able to
sell them at a price which would allow him
to repay the bank after he had paid for
labor and raw material. The only people
who can give the assurance are the em-
ployees and employers in association.
But there is one thing more the bankers
must have. Primary producers are abso-
lutely essential to Australia, because they
and only they enable us to pay our huge
foreign interest bill and meet also the bills
for such goods as we must import—raw
material some of it. Now, those primary
producers cannot enjoy the direct benefits
of a protective tariff: they have to go into
the world’s markets and sell there against
all-comers. If their costs of production are
made high, they cannot pass on a farthing
of it to their buyers; they have to bear it
all themselves. And the costs may easily be
made so high that there is not left for them-
selves—the farmers—enough to live on. Yet
we dare not allow them to be driven off
the land: for that would mean inevitable
default abroad. Hence the bankers must be
satisfied that the secondary producers can
send out their goods at a price which will
allow the primary producer also to live.
That is the position. The country, as
Mr. Lang says, is living under a bank
inspectorship. This simply means that for
the first time for a long while it is now
necessary for the manufacturer to show that
he can make a profit while selling at a
price that will enable the farmer to live.
The moment the manufacturer and the
unions within that industry can give the
banker this assurance credit will be forth-
coming. The unions thus have it within
their power to secure re-employment for
tens of thousands of people within a few
weeks. All they have to do is to get
together with the employers in their re-
spective industries, and convince the bankers
—the nominal creators of credit—that such
economies have been made that they can
now “extend credit” with a reasonable
prospect of repayment.
SYDNEY AS FEDERAL CAPITAL.
Within the last few weeks people have
quite forgotten that Canberra exists as the
capital of Australia. There have been
many hurried meetings of financiers, Fed-
eral and State politicians, and experts of
one sort and another, and hardly one has
been at the alleged metropolis, because the
place is only a sentiment and a tired one
at that. Canberra lies at the end of a
cockspur railway, off a money-losing dead-
end branch railway. It has no visible pros-
pects, commercial, shipping, manufacturing,
agricultural or mining, and it is nothing
special even in a pastoral way. If the Bris-
bane - Sydney - Melbourne-Adelaide-Pertn
railway were diverted so that Canberra be-
came a wayside station on the road to some-
where, the place w T ould still be wanting in
most respects.
Sydney would make a good Federal city,
vice Canberra deposed, if only its people
would reach out for the chance which they
missed 33 years ago. Then Australia would
have the second-largest (presently, perhaps
even the largest) metropolis in the Southern
Hemisphere instead of one of the most
minute. The capital would rank as a State
for Federal purposes, with the proper num-
ber of members in the House of Represen-
tatives and the Senate, for the idea that
the inhabitants of the Federal Capital should
be disfranchised is only a silly American
freak which our Constitution-makers fool-
ishly imitated.
The suggestion that Sydney should be
promoted to be the capital of Australia
might arouse or resurrect the old State
Frights party, who might ciy with great
bitterness that N. S. Wales was going to
be “robbed.” But if the H million inside
the proposed Federal capital area were will-
ing, it would be of little importance if the
H million outside that area had doubts,
though there is no visible reason why they
should. That the li million would be
willing, when once they had time to con-
sider the matter and to realise the absurdity
of the “robbery” yarn, there is little doubt.
It is better to be the metropolis of Aus-
tralia than to be the capital of the most
bankrupt State of Australia.
What view the other States would take is
unknown; but it would be overwhelmingly
favorable as soon as the dust of pig-headed
misrepresentation had time to clear away.
They wouldn’t in the least mind losing Can-
berra, which has been a rotten disappoint-
ment. They have no special longing to
bloat N. S. Wales or its capital; but, then,
Sydney would cease to be either N. S.
Wales or its capital. It is impossible for
Australia to have a capital which would be
central in the same sense as Madrid
or Moscow or Rome, for the middle of
Australia is more or less a desert; but Syd-
ney has a fairly central position on the
habitable rim of the continent, and it will
be more so when Central Queensland and
North Queensland have set up as separate
States, with capitals of their own.
There is no immediate necessity to dis-
cuss what should be done with Canberra
or if anything specific should be done with
it. Possibly it might simply become one
of the deserted towns of Australia, which
are already fairly numerous. Nor is it
needful to discuss what would be the poli-
tical hub of N. S. Wales after Sydney left
it, and whether the old State would take
the opportunity to subdivide further into
two parts and have two State capitals, one
north and one south. The interesting point
is that the Federal State of Sydney would
be the second, if not the first, in the matter
of population, and the fact that it belonged
to Australia instead of to N. S. Wales would
do its people no harm. Sydney was meant
to be something better than the embar-
rassed Parliamentary home of a bankrupt
State with a wrecked Savings Bank, and
Australia was meant to have a better poli-
tical centre than the village of ’Berra-
some place more akin to Buenos Ayres or
Rio db Janeiro, in the other two great Fed-
erations of the Southern Hemisphere. A
Federal capital in the right place should
be a source of wealth and prosperity to its
own inhabitants and to those of the Com-
monwealth generally, whereas Canberra is
rather a bad debt all round.
MEDICINE’S NEW FIELD.
“What are vitamines —are they such things as
starch, iron, etc., and green vegetables?”
—“Service Department” question.
It is difficult to pick up a daily paper with-
out seeing “vitamine” mentioned. Yet.
beyond knowing that they are contained in
vegetables, few have the remotest idea what
vitamines really are. They have yet, in
fact, to be isolated satisfactorily. In other
words, it is as yet impossible to look at
anything under the microscope and say,
“That is a vitamine.” All we know is that
they are “accessory” substances found in
certain foodstuffs, and that without them it
is impossible to have good health.
Vitamines A, B, C, D, E, G were known
at the end of last year, and there were also
subdivisions of those varieties, such as B 1
and 82. They are contained in different
foodstuffs, though it is quite possible to
have two or more in the same article. Some
are essential to prevent scurvy, others pre-
vent beri-beri, and others have a marked
influence on bone and teeth development.
Recent research work done by Mellanby,
of England, and McCarrison, of India, seems
to indicate that disease is often due to
incorrect feeding. This applies to diseases
as far removed as rheumatism and pneu-
monia. We are on the edge of a new era in
medicine: the medicine of the future will
concentrate on the prevention of disease in
a manner hitherto quite unknown. Indeed,
the day is already at hand when the house-
wife must stand side by side with the doctor
in prevention of disease.
Here is a short resume which the house-
wife therefore ought to know:—
Vitamine A. —Occurs in milk, eggs, butter and
edible green leaves, liver and kidney. It is destroyed
by cooking or boiling. It is important in develop-
ment and the protection of children from certain
diseases.
Vitamine B. —Found in root vegetables (potatoes,
etc.), fruits, yeast, liver, kidney, grains in natural
state. Cooking destroys this vitamine. (Absence
results in beri-beri and other diseases.)
Vitamine C. —Found in whole milk, fruits, especi-
ally oranges and lemons, tomatoes, lettuce. Is a
delicate vitamine and thought to be injured by
exposure to air. (Absence results in scurvy and some
skin affections.)
Vitamine D. —ln butter, egg-yolk, fish oil (notably
cod-liver oil). A vitamine of tremendous importance
in the growth of bone and teeth in children as well
as the prevention of certain infectious diseases.
Mellanby asserts that vitamines D and A will pre-
vent dental caries in children.
Vitamine E. —Not so well known as the others.
Found in wheat oil, corn and palm oil, peanut oil
and olive oil. Has an effect on the sexual functions.
Medical students have a lively poem that helps them
remember the vitamine theory. It ends up this wise:
We’ll blast the hopes of Marie Stopes
With good old Vitamine E, me lads,
With good old Vitamine E.
Vitamine G. —Found in yeast, lean meats, milk,
eggs and fresh vegetables. In the absence of this
vitamine, certain food-deficiency diseases like pel-
lagra are likely to develop. (Cases of pellagra have
been reported in the present depression in Sydney.)
There are still a few prominent medical
men who pray to be saved from “food
cranks.” But the amazing results of the
work of people like Mellanby and McCar-
rison cannot be ignored. McCarrison kept
a colony of 2000 rats on what he considered
a perfect diet for two years. Not a single
rat died of a disease. Alongside this colony
was another of 4000-odd who were fed on all
sorts of diets deficient in the various vita-
mines. They died, and on post-mortems
being performed were found to have all the
diseases from which mankind suffer, from
goitre to gastric ulcers.
One of these days we may get a Minister
for Education who, realising that house-
keeping is the ultimate profession of the
vast majority of women, will see to it
that the study of physiology and dietetics is
compulsory and the study of Latin optional
for matriculation students.
The Office Doctor.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Deficits, Forced Loans and Morals.
The cardinal fact about a Government
deficit is that somebody must provide the
money which is spent in excess of the
revenue. This means that the Government
must either borrow or, what amounts to
the same thing, leave its bills unpaid. When
therefore a Government deliberately bud-
gets for a deficit, it must have in mind
forced loans, if they cannot be got volun-
tarily. Most of the loans which have enabled
the Governments of Australia to have
their recent deficits have been to all in-
tents and purposes forced loans —loans
which the banks have been compelled to
take up in order to save the Governments
from default and the country from a finan-
cial crash in which the banks knew they
would themselves be involved. The whole
proceeding has thus been as near blackmail
as it is possible to get it. And it has been
done without the smallest regard for the
ordinary requirements of the banks. That
they might need, and in fact have needed,
the money for the benefit of their own
customers and of industry has had no weight
at all. The Governments have wanted the
money for their own purposes, good, bad ov
indifferent, and the needs of industry have
not troubled them at all.
Now these Governments go further. It
is not sufficient that they force loans in
order to meet their deficits on revenue
account; they now proceed to lay down a
policy of forced loans on straight-out loan
account. If the banks cannot, as they
declare, finance loan works after the end
of October, each Government has been
authorised to “make its own arrangements”
for carrying on its loan programme. If
this means anything it means that Govern-
ments are authorised to practise the same
species of blackmail on the private indi-
vidual as they have hitherto done on the
banks.
Governments may have a legal right to
do this; but have they a moral right greater
than that of the individual? Thousands of
people would be much better pleased if
they could spend far in excess of their
incomes and compel somebody else to make
good the deficit; but if they set out to do
it and make a policy of it, the Bankruptcy
Court presently calls them rogues and either
sends them to gaol or at the best brands
them as men who are no longer entitled
to ask for credit. Yet what is the differ-
ence morally between them and Govern-
ments which budget for deficits, w r ell know-
ing that they must force somebody to make
up the shortage? There are thousands, too,
who want' loans. If they cannot get them,
yet proceed with their loan programmes
without reasonable expectation of being able
to pay the bills, the Bankruptcy Court pre-
sently deals with them, too, in precisely the
same way. What is the difference morally
between them and a Government which
proceeds with its loan policy without a
penny to its credit, trusting to forced loans
to meet its obligations?
*
What to Do with Dissentients.
“Oh what a tangled web we weave
When first we practise to deceive.”
Conversion was the wrong way of doing
the business, anyhow. The cry of “equality
of sacrifice” was imperative; and it could
best have been answered by taxation, which
might have come off as soon as times im-
proved and wage and salary cuts were
restored. But, no—the politician must have
conversion. At the back of his mind was
a desire to impress the London money
market—in hopes, of course, of favors to
come. Now, a tax is not at all impressive;
but if a conversion masquerading as volun-
tary could be brought off, it might be a
great encouragement to John Bull to do
likewise by us. There was, however, not a
man at the Premiers’ Conference who dared
make it an honest voluntary conversion;
not one who dared suggest a public an-
nouncement that non-conversion would not
be followed by any pains or penalties; not
one, indeed, who did not know that with
such an announcement not 50 per cent, of
our domestic loans would be converted.
Later the Loan Council naturally found
itself in difficulties. Having declared that
this was a voluntary loan, what could it do
with those few who in spite of cajolery and
threats still refused to convert? Mr. Scullin
was more honest than the “S. M. Herald”
about it, “We cannot,” he said in effect,
“let these people off on better terms than
those who have converted.” In plain words,
he must keep faith with his friends. They
converted on the distinct understanding that
all must make sacrifices; and if some were
now permitted to escape, the Government
would be guilty of obtaining concessions by
false representations.
We should never have had a loan con-
version. And when we did have one we
should not have called it voluntary. It
never was voluntary, and to allow any to
escape now, without any sacrifices at all, is
merely an attempt to give color and support
to an imposture.
Anyhow, why should the patriot “get it
in the neck” every time? The rottenest,
feature of this rotten plan was that public-
spirited men and women who had put their
few pounds into loans, even taking them out
of the Commonwealth Bank for the pur-
pose, lost, not merely interest, which vvas
not important, but the chance of handling
their scanty capital within their lifetime,


which was tremendously important. If any
scheme is devised for giving necessitous
dissentients the benefit of earlier payment,
it will be a shame and a scandal if the same
benefits are not available to necessitous
people who responded a second time to the
call of public duty and converted.
♦
Why High Wages Are No Longer
Possible.
“ ‘Lower wages,’ said the Acting Premier of N. S.
Wales, Mr. Baddeley, ‘would only tend still further
to depress the low-ebb purchasing power. Even
assuming—as the low-wage champions would have us
believe —that a reduced price of goods would be pro-
portionate to the reduced wages, and that, therefore,
the demand would not be adversely affected, the fact
would remain that employment would not be found
for one additional person.’ ”
It would not matter how high wages were
if this were a completely self-contained
country. But unfortunately it isn’t. For
one thing, against the most earnest protests
of this paper and of every financial authority
of any consequence, the Labor party and
every other political party has piled up an
enormous overseas debt, which, with ex-
change, is now costing Australia 40 mil-
lions a year. That money, in addition to the
money required to pay for all those things
which cannot be or are not produced in
Australia, has to be paid in goods produced
in Australia and sold in foreign markets in
competition with the world. There is no
other way in which that money can be paid.
High wages mean, generally, high cost of
production; and the producers of goods
sold in competition with Russia and other
low-wage countries cannot pay that high
cost and live. Already two-thirds of the
farmers who produce for export are on the
bread-line; unless costs are reduced, thou-
sands of these men must be driven off their
holdings and added to the unemployed. If
that happens Australia will not be able to
pay its overseas debts, and the nation must
become a defaulter. And if that happens
it is the end of further borrowing for many
years; and no party is so much interested
in borrowing as the Labor party, with its
objective of State-owned public utilities.
Had we not borrowed abroad and had we,
instead of borrowing and thus promoting
imports, established local industries, we
might not have been in our present mess.
We could then have had wages as high as
the high-wage advocate could possibly
desire. It would not have mattered how
high they were. But we borrowed and bor-
rowed, and we imported and neglected local
industries, and now we must pay for it.
There is no escape for us. We can only
insist on high wages for part of our com-
munity by condemning the other part to
starvation—and what hundreds of farmers
are enduring is not far from that. There is
a limit to what that other part can endure.
If that limit is passed—and it is reached
already in countless cases—then primary
production must diminish, there will be a
crash, and in that crash not all the
Baddeleys on earth will be able to find
employment for the men in the secondary
industries at any wages at all.
__4
The Savings Bank’s Wrong Start.
There was too much of the circus and the
picture-show about the re-opening of the
X. S. Wales Government Savings Bank—
too much screeching; too much posturing;
too much loose talk and tall adjectives.
It may be that the right way to start a
savings bank these days is with a brass
band; or it may be that such outbreaks are
merely symptoms of the mental ill-health
of the community. One thing, however, is
certain: the brass band cannot take the
place of a right start in the business itself.
And the start is not right. For a year
or two this bank must hold itself ready to
repay great quantities of its deposits within
48 hours. It must, therefore, hold a good
part of its deposits out of use, and another
good part at short call, earning very little.
In such circumstances to attempt to pay
3 and 3i per cent, on the entire mass of the
deposits is both foolish and dangerous.
Whether the Commonwealth Bank can
afford to pay rates equal to these or better
has no bearing on the case. The safety of
the bank demands that it shall pay what it
can afford, not what somebody else in a
better position can afford.
In fixing rates so high the Commissioners
are unfortunately only following a bad
Australian practice—a practice which was
almost bound to end in disaster at some
time or other. The only thing which ever
could justify it was the guarantee of the
Government; to-day, when that guarantee
is no longer worth anything so far as the
immediate supply of cash is concerned, the
payment of 3} per cent, or even 3 per cent,
on money withdrawable on demand is not
possible without endangering the new bank
or throwing a quite unfair burden of costs
upon the old one.
4
Paper-making and Millions.
Australia uses over two million pounds’
worth of newsprint a year—in more pro-
sperous times it used 2i millions—and not
a penn’orth of it is made in this country.
Yet it has been conclusively shown that
there is raw material in Tasmania to satisfy
for very many years, if not indefinitely, all
of the Commonwealth’s newsprint and a
great deal of its other paper requirements,
the imports of the latter amounting to
another two millions a year. Thus far the
newsprint supply has come from American
(largely Canadian) and Scandinavian
forests, some of it manufactured in Britain
from imported wood-pulp, the balance
manufactured near the source of supply.
Two Australian cos. have large concessions
of timber lands in Tasmania, one in the
south and the other in the north of the
island ; but, though considerable capital has
been forthcoming, some of it supplied by
the larger users of newsprint, difficulties
have thus far prevented the establishment
of the necessary mills.
The business is one, nevertheless, which
ought to be closely inquired into at the
present juncture. Here is a certain market
for at least two millions’ worth of goods
per annum; and the retention of those two
millions in Australia would be equal to an
increase of 20 million bushels of wheat, so
far as the maintenance of our balance of
trade is concerned. It is a misfortune, of
course, that so much of the plant must come
from overseas; yet it might be found not
impossible to furnish a great part of it also
in Australia. It is largely a matter of cost;
and there is good evidence that, in spite
of awards, costs of construction works are
declining rapidly in Australia.
At any rate, the problem ought to be
tackled; and there is no sense in delaying
it. Here is the assured market; here,
according to long and searching scientific
and practical tests, is a satisfactory raw
material; here is the labor waiting for the
employment which we now supply to people
overseas. As a former Premier of Tasmania,
Mr. Lyons, the ex-Commonwealth Trea-
surer, knows more about the subject than
any member of the Government can be
expected to do; and the Federal Govern-
ment could do much worse than charge him
with the job of bringing all parties together,
finding out what the difficulties are which
are standing in the way of establishing an
industry with an assured market, and dis-
covering a way of promptly overcoming
them.
_4
Transport in Australia.
For years before the slump the Common-
wealth had been importing motor chassis to
the tune of nearly £6,000,000 p.a. from the
U.S.A. To help boost this trade, mil-
lions were spent by Main Roads Boards,
chiefly on speedways in and near cities.
Now the bottom has fallen out of the car
business to a great extent, and companies
which used to provide or assemble bonnets,
mudguards, running-boards, etc., are .going
into liquidation. The expensive roads re-
main, but a lot of them are going into
liquidation, too. In Britain, which spent
£60,000,000 p.a. over a long period in perfect-
ing every class of road, there has been no
deterioration. In Australia, 100 yards from
any concrete luxury-road, motorists can
usually strike potholes half a foot deep.
Britain started to make a job of all its roads
with the intention of filling them eventu-
ally with cars made entirely in the U.K. It
has succeeded, though at the time America
was building 87 per cent, of all the cars pro-
duced in the world, and Britain less than
-1 per cent. Australia is still pretty much
where it was when Capt. Cook arrived as
regards prospects of producing a car.
Railways have become as out of date in
recent years as city trams. In all the pro-
gressive parts of the world, and in some
Asiatic countries that Australians think of
as unprogressive, transport is! being in-
creasingly handled by cars, ’buses and
lorries. Air mails and passenger ’planes are
also cutting into the iron-horse business.
And it is at this turn of the transport tide
that Premier Lang orders the processes of
Nature to stop, while he makes a monopoly
of the rail and tramway services in the
interests of a few thousand supporters on
the basic wage!
There are already signs of what the re-
actions of the primary producers are likely
to be to this policy, which is being followed
to some extent in other rail- and tramway-
burdened States. Melbourne is staging a
“Return to the Horse” movement, which
is said by the “Age” to “have received
promises of support from many of Mel-
bourne’s prominent business films.” As one
supporter put it, “a wholesale reversion to
the use of horse-drawn transport would give
much encouragement to the cultivation of
primary produce, and would also to a con-
siderable extent solve the unemployment
question.” It is significant that at the
Melbourne Show, which opens to-morrow
(Thursday), entries for Clydesdales number
195 as against 138 last year, lorry horses
41 as against 28, saddle horses 240 against
217, and so on. And at the Kapunda sale
(S.A.) there was keen demand for good
draughts at over £3o—with total sales of
more than 200 head. Horse transport may
be out of date, but it is economically prac-
ticable, which motor transport with petrol
at 2s. sd. in the country districts, and rail
transport handicapped by crippling arbitra-
tion awards and strikes, are ceasing to be.
4
Company Law in Queensland.
Under a bill to amend and consolidate the
Queensland law relating to public cos., pro-
moters and directors are to cany more direct
financial responsibility for statements made
in prospectuses. That is good; but a pro-
vision to curb the lying tongues of go-
getters and share- and bond-sellers would
be better. In perhaps nine cases out of 10
where the subscription is made through a
salesman, the clinching arguments are drawn
not from the prospectus but, from the sales-
man’s imagination. It may be the travelling
share- and bond-salesman ought to be
barred altogether; if he is not, then it ought
to be set out, expressly for his discourage-
ment, that no contract for the sale of shares
or bonds shall be binding where it can be
proved that false representations, or
promises beyond those contained in the
prospectus, have been made by any sales-
man.
A further provision ought to be made to
ensure that the purchaser understands what
he is doing when he signs an application
for, say, 100 £1 shares, ss. payable on
application. It is not too much to say that
an average of 20 letters a week reach The
Bulletin’s Service Department asking
whether it would recommend the writers to
forfeit shares in some limited co. on which
they have paid five or ten shillings and on
which a call has now been made. The law
should require that every application for
shares in a limited co. should carry words
in plain type setting out that the applicant
is liable for the full face value of the
shares and that liability is not avoided by
surrender.
The Queensland bill does something in
the way of trying to protect the investor
whose money is wasted by a co. starting on
hopelessly insufficient capital, through only
a few- of the offered shares having been
bought and paid for. Two clear provisions
are required here: one that the prospectus
shall state the minimum public subscrip-
tion, after meeting all charges of flotation
and registration, on which operations may
be commenced; the other that, where a
consideration is to be given for goodwill or
promotion, the amount actually given shall
be reduced in the same proportion as the
shares sold bear to the shares offered.
The bill seeks to introduce one quaint
provision into the law—that except in . a
certain few circumstances and in private cos.
a director shall automatically retire from
a. board on reaching 70 ; if he is retained it
may only be on the order of a Court.
One could understand a provision that every
person of 70 or over accepting a nomina-
tion to a board should be bound to disclose
to shareholders his age, throwing upon them
then the responsibility of accepting him;
but what should a Court know of a man ? s
qualifications? A man may be quite un-
fitted for an executive post by reason of
old age and physical debility; but the years
and experiences which have made him unfit
may make his counsel very valuable.
4
Importing Crime.
Australia will not welcome the cabled
report that “the American conscience” is
awaking to the fact that organised gang-
crime is a menace to the nation. For many
years the American, whether in southern
feuds or western gun-play, has worked on
individualistic lines, just as he has done in
other phases of national activity. There is,
therefore, no ground for surprise in the
announcement that there is a strong move-
ment in American politics in favor of sweep-
ing the organised crime-gangs out of the
country.
Where will the sweepings be dumped?
American films have taught Australians of
a certain type that the carrying of lethal
weapons is as much the right thing as the
carrying of an umbrella on a wet day. The
same influence is largely responsible for
the growing spirit of mob lawlessness w’hich
was once foreign to the Australian charac-
ter. Thirty years ago the spectacle of hun-
dreds of police massed to protect the law
courts against a riotous mob whose
friends were being charged with a grave
offence against public order would have been
unbelievable. It was seen in Sydney last
week when a party of so-called Communists
were on trial. A few 7 years ago coin or bul-
lion was transferred from bank to bank or
for shipment overseas in an ordinary
vehicle with a couple of clerks in charge.
Last week at the Commonwealth Bank in
Sydney could be seen a transfer of the kind
being made in a steel-covered van loop-
holed for pistol fire, with a considerable
escort of officials supervising. Just as evi-
dently the spirit of reckless crime which
marked the bushranging days is reviving
in Australia, and it is plain that outside
agencies have been mainly responsible.
Until quite recently, too, the shooting
feuds among criminal gangs which are now
a commonplace in our great cities were un-
known: so was the razor-slashing which for
a time was so fashionable among what the
daily press (which is so largely responsible
for our corruption) delights to call the
underworld. Both are based on an American
foundation; the one copied from the white
gangsters, the other from the negro popu-
lation.
There is good reason to believe that minor
practitioners in the industry of gang crime
have for some time been finding harborage
in Australia. An American drive to clear
out the criminal organisations such as has
been suggested may therefore be an addi-
tional calamity to this country. Britain,
of whose open doors so much is heard, now
rigidly guards them against the foreign un-
desirable. and the same is true of Canada
and South Africa. Only in Australia, where
the national tendency to let things slide'is
accentuated by the more or less unwilling
sympathy of Governments with an eye on the
vote of that organised ruffianism which is the
chief backing of the Communist and kindred
movements, can we see the rapid conver-
sion of what was once a sound and law-
abiding community into a rubbish-tip for
the world’s undesirables.
4
A Country that Calls for Labor.
The details of R. V. Dulhunty’s scheme for
absorbing some of the Ma State’s unem-
ployed have been outlined before, but they
will bear repetition. The starting-point is
the fact, that a very large proportion of the
admittedly fertile coastal lands north of
Sydney are undeveloped and practically
idle. This,, it has been proved, is good
dairying country. There is enough of it
to enable N. S. Wales to rival Maoriland
as an exporter of butter and cheese—and
Australia stands in desperate need of in-
creased production for export. The men
and women farming such of this land as is
occupied are money-poor. They could, if
they could afford to pay for ringing, falling,
clearing, grassing, fencing, draining, erec-
tion of fodder conservation plant and road
construction, increase very'substantially the
areas of their holdings and the efficiency of
their production. Almost all their needs are
summed up in the one word labor. That
is where Dulhunty comes in. He proposes
that as much as can be used of the unem-
ployment relief fund be lent, not given, to
North Coast settlers at just sufficient in-
terest to pay administration costs, repay-
able in annual instalments of interest and
principal.
A more direct- and practical contribution
to the discussion of the unemployment pro-
blem could not well be imagined. At its
prospective best the scheme would take
hundreds of men off the dole; be instru-
mental in eventually placing many of the
men on the land (that was the M.L. experi-
ence with Jock McKenzie’s very similar first
settlement scheme); pave the way to a
more flourishing export industry, and return
to the State the money advanced. At the
very worst the proposal is better in every
respect than the subsidisation and encour-
agement of idleness which is the principal
feature of the present dole system.
f
Unemployables,
From “Gad,” on the track in N.Q.: —
I have just come upon a back number of The
Bulletin (8/7/’3l) in which one L. Chevalley pens
his experiences in regard to The Bulletin’s re-
employment suggestion. It does not seem to have
occurred to Mr. Chevalley that his observations are
entirely one-sided. Did anything ever suggest to
him to put the question to himself “I wonder what
they thought about me”?
Now, the point is all important, all the more so
as we read that No. 5 (“who seemed a good worker”)
“walked right off the job without even waiting for
his pay.” I think, in perfect fairness to the worker
who still is workable, it ought to be borne in mind
that there is something more in any job than either
pay or tucker. Indeed, I will go so far as to say
that I would personally prefer to be on the dole
than to work for some employers I have known.
Let me cite a personal experience. I walked on to
the road from a job in which I received 30 bob a
week and tucker for being tutor and general help
on a station homestead. For the privilege of draw-
ing that wage I paid my own way from Sydney (at
least the squatter paid and deducted it afterwards),
some £B-odd. My work there included (1) teaching
four boys; (2) scrubbing, sweeping, washing up,
tending a garden, wood chopping, tending fowls and
anything else I had time for. As against this: (a)
The children hud never learnt to do as they were
told, consequently one couldn’t teach them any-
thing they were disinclined to learn; (b) the
squatter was the most mannerless man I have ever
met in life, his wife little better; (e) the wife
was always interfering in the schoolroom, everything
was most uncomfortable, and we never got enough
to eat.
I do not like to suggest that Mr. Che valley’s
experience is largely the result of his own short-
comings, but I would like him to understand that
it’s damned easy to be a hard worker when you’re
working for yourself, but it’s not quite so damned
easy to be a hard worker if (1) you are largely
ignorant of the sort of work you are expected to
do; (2) you have just come on to the job from a
life of subsidised idleness. Let Mr. Chevalley imagine
for a moment that he was down and out and he was
transferred from his own environment (the country)
to the city. Let him suppose himself to be walking
about, dispirited, more or less hungry, and feeling
quite anti-social. He goes to a city bloke and begs
for a job. The city bloke says: “All right—-just
tear in to those ledgers. To-morrow you can take
out a balance-sheet and then type a few letters”....
etc. I’d give Mr. Chevalley a run for about two
days on that job and then I can see the boss
writing: “No. 1 (L. Chevalley)—A poor worker. Did
not seem to understand anything. He did nothing
during the time he was here except to hold up
everyone else.”
No man is really unemployable; but some bosses
are harder to work for than others. That is all.
♦
The National Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Poor old mad King George 111. wondered
how the apple got in the dumpling; but
his puzzlement is nothing alongside that'of
the public over the mystery of some of the
trustees of the N.S.W. National Gallery.
Still, the explanation is ample: when ‘ a
vacancy occurs it is filled by the Education
Minister of the moment; which generally
means that the appointment is a matter of
wire-pulling. The effect would not be so
bad, nevertheless, if the term of the appoint-
ment were fixed. But once a trustee always
a trustee; and so we get the same point
of view year after year—the same artists
and the same art-methods in favor, and
purchases made on the same guiding prin-
ciples. We see much the same thing also
in connection with the Archibald Prize, the
same judges year after year looking at the
pictures with the same eyes, swayed by the
same emotions, and naturally finding the
artist who pleased them most to-day cap-
able of giving the greatest pleasure to-
morrow.
Three changes ought to be made. First,
the nominations ought to be divided be-
tween the Minister (as the representative
of those who provide the fairly liberal
grant) and the artists and art societies (of
these latter there are now six in Sydney);
the appointments ought to be limited to
four years; and, in order that public interest
might be provoked, the nomination and
election of half the full board should take
place every second year. »


“ Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
ďf
POLITICAL
POINTS
Melbourne Tramway Board has been called
on by the Federal department to pay sales
tax on the tramcars which it makes for
itself. Of course it should. Also, if you
grow a cabbage in your back yard you
should pay sales tax on it; likewise on the
egg the old speckled hen laid yesterday
morning. The girls who knitted berets for
themselves and didn’t pay toll have defrauded
the revenue; and young Jim, who got a
soap-box from the grocer’s and four discarded
pram-wheels and made a go-cart to coast
down the hill, should be liable to fine and
imprisonment if he doesn’t square up with
Mr. Ewing. In fact, the decision in the
Tram ease opens up endless possibilities.
The most immediate possibility, however, is
a general impression that the department has
gone completely off its head.
N. S. Wales wages being as much as 45
per cent, more than those for similar jobs
under Vic. awards, employment has been
drifting over to Vic., of course. The only
way to stop it is to bring the N.S.W. pay
down to correspond; but the mischievous
Langs and the stupid Baddeleys would sooner
“Yes, sir, I’m proud to say they’re £5 a pair,
sir; and next week, sir, we hope to be
able to make ’em for £6.”
wages were high and nobody earning them
than fair and everybody iu a job. So, to
keep back the flood of goods coming into
N.S.W. from across the borders, the Badly-
Bangeds proposed to compel certain intro-
duced goods to be stamped with the State
of origin. They think that their followers
would rather pay 50s. than 30s. for a pair
of boots if somebody tells them that the
extra 20s. goes in higher wages. Some people
are silly enough to think anything.
The capital cost of Queensland’s State
railways is about £59,000,000 of borrowed
money. It is proposed to write off £30,000,000
of this as lost or gone in depreciation, or at
all events as unable to earn interest. The
borrowed capital was about £32.000,1 HX)
when Labor took office, but in 14 years
of Ryan, Theodore, Gillies and McCormack
it rose like a balloon, and the working ex-
penses did the same or more so, and the
profits dropped like an anchor. As Queens-
land will owe the money just the same until
it is paid off it makes no real difference
whether it is written down or up or sideways.
The Hogans (Vic.) have had a rocky
time lately, and after the Financial Emer-
gency, Unemployment Belief and Mora-
torium Bills are disposed of it will be
rockier still. Unless the budget is modified
and the proposed 25 p.c. income-tax increase
is abandoned or considerably reduced,
Acting-Gov. Irvine may have to look for
other advisers. The Government has been
in office for 21 months. Half of the 30
Laborites would feel happier in Opposition,
but a Government with Argyle as Premier,
and Allan and Dunstan as lieutenants, wou’d
not be very comfortable in office, seeing that
the 34 non-Laborites are not consolidated.
A Ministry of all the talents would be pre-
ferable to either.
Defending the imposition of fees for high-
school tuition, Baker, Tasmania’s youthful
Attorney-General and Minister for Educa-
tion, declared against free education alto-
gether. “The provision of education for a
man’s children,” he said, “is just as properly
a parental responsibility as the provision of
food and clothing”; also, “those who can
afford to pay fees should not be supplied with
free schooling.” As it is at least 50 years
since any Tas. Minister dared to voice such
sentiments, it is plain that Baker is no slave
to fashion.
Postmaster-General Green told an aston-
ishing yarn about bananas to a recent depu-
tation. He said that free admission of
bananas from Java would be of ‘-inestimable
value” to Westralia, and became almost a
raving tragedy over the banana tax, which
yields about £13,400 a year. Westralia has
364,000 square miles of tropical country as
against Queensland’s 359,000 square miles,
but it grows only 19 acres of bananas com-
pared to Queensland’s 19,750 acres; in fact,
it raises hardly any tropical produce at all.
Tropical Westralia is losing population, but
even if it is so much neglected that it doesn’t
grow its own bananas, that is no reason why
Green should want to damage the banana-
growers of Queensland and N.S.W. by im-
porting fruit from Java.
Maoriland, which insists that the unem-
ployed must toil for their bread, has become
dissatisfied with.the character of many of
the undertakings initiated by local bodies,
and lias decided to fall back on Jock McKen-
zie’s plan. Single men are to be drafted into
labor camps, and set to road-making and
land development in the backblocks. McKen-
zie’s theory was that even townies, once they
were broken in, would acquire a taste for
country life. He allowed men to take up
sections of the land they had helped to clear
and make accessible —one of the reasons why
more than half Maoriland's population lives
outside urban areas to-day.
It isn’t true that Australia, being a
natural-born wood- and water-joey, can’t
ever hope to establish an export business in
manufactured goods. Before the war the
McKay Sunshine harvester people had built
up a fine export trade with S. America;
between 11X12 and 1914 nearly a million had
come to Australia from that source. In the
years when this country was a little mad
its high costs just about killed the business;
but lately costs have improved again in Vic-
toria, and the other day the McKavs loaded
400 tons of “headers” for S’Africa. The
Union has barred Australian wheat, expect-
ing a big harvest of its own, but it doesn't
know enough about rhe business to bar the
big red Australian machine.
Blackburn, the Vic. Labor M.L.A., who
is regarded as one of the intellectuals of
“the movement,” holds that if his party is
to maintain its strength it will have to “shed
its national outlook and work on inter-
national lines towards a definitely socialistic
end which will abolish the institution of
private production.” In the process the
White Australia policy may be abolished first,
but that seems to be immaterial to these
intellectuals.
It was reported at the beginning of the
week that about 19,000 people had put about
£200,000 into the re-opened Savings Bank,
which is a trifle over £lO per head. At
recent returns there was an average of BIS
per depositor in the old bank. Some employ-
ers took so much interest in Lang’s desire
to start a fierce opposition to the Common-
wealth Savings Bank across the road, appa-
rently regarding it as a foreign institution,
that they urged all their employees to open
accounts and gave them a few bob to put
iu. Manager McTavish said that results
exceeded his wildest expectations. How wild
his expectations were is another question.
“Get out of this house! You ain’t
respectable.”
Lang declares that the bank is as sound as
any similar institution in Australia, but is
there any exactly similar institution in Aus-
tralia? Perhaps things will improve when
Whiddon, manager of the State lottery, has
been banished from the bank premises—
driven from home, as it were, with his
bouncing baby in his arms.
It is anticipated that the Vic. Education
Inquiry Board will recommend some sub-
stantial economies to supplement the saving
of £450,060 p.a. (compared with 1929-30)
already being made by docking teachers’
salaries. University high-school pupils who
now get off without fees will have to pay,
other liigh-school fees will be increased,
teachers who go through the training college
will be expected to reimburse the department
in after years, small schools will be closed,
and frills of various varieties will be snipped
off —that’s if the board’s advice is accepted
by the Hogans or their successors.
“Federal Ministers still talk about a fiduciary
issue. ‘Australia will have to come to it,’ said
one the other day.”
“Paddle out into deep water, Jim, and
gammon you’re going under; and we’ll
get Miss Fiduciary to effect a rescue.”
The N.S.W. Taxation Department rubbed
salt into the wounds of those who had
accounts in the Government Savings Bank
by demanding that the unpaid interest for
1930-31 should be returned as income. To
tax that “income” would have been as out-
rageous as it is to tax amounts from other
States which have already been taxed in
those States and by the Commonwealth—
the department's other contribution to the
never-ending audacities of bureaucratic
persons—but depositors bad to take their
passbooks to the burst bank and have their
interest reckoned up by the otherwise unem-
ployed clerks and make out their taxation
papers accordingly. Now the new directors
announce that 1930-31 interest will not be
paid till June 30. 1932—the end of another
taxation year—at the earliest; so it was all
labor in vain. And the chances are that
another swarm of taxation hands will be
needed to erase Savings Bank interest from
the returns as rendered and add up the
totals afresh.
Industrial arbitration awards continue to
be suspended in Queensland; hospitals, fire
and ambulance brigades are the latest to be
exempted. Their revenues have fallen
heavily, especially since Lang started his
lottery in Sydney, and smaller Government
subsidies are now being paid under the Pre-
miers’ plan. There are 114 hospital boards,
6G ambulance boards and 29 fire-brigade
employing about 3000 persons. In
1929 the Home Secretary received £265 600
from the Government’s Golden Casket lottery
for distribution among the hospitals, but
Lang’s sweeps will reduce this amount by
at least 50 p.c.
The Lang Government’s habit of playing
the nark where the poor are concerned is
exemplifi-d in its proposal to abolish Friday-
night shopping. This has become an insti-
tution in Sydney—a weekly fiesta. Dad,
mum and the kids pour into the city after
tea, browse round the department stores,
look at the windows of the White Way, visit
the markets and enjoy themselves in a surg-
ing hob’day-minded crowd. The shophands
don’t object: they earn good and (in most
cases) badly-needed money. The only effect
of the change will be to make thousands of
wage-earners poorer and deprive tens of
thousands of an outing.
Copley and Baker, the Queensland civil
servants who were carpeted by the Moore
Government over their criticisms of it as
officials of the State Service Union, have
resigned rather than leave Brisbane. One
of the young gentlemen was to have been
transferred to Cloneurry and the other to
Mackay. At least half a million Austra-
lians would be glad of their jobs, and would
dispense with the luxury of having a whang
at the Government every now and then, but the
well-advertised pair prefer to quit and stand
for Parliament. Baker is to be the Labor
candidate for Oxley, a Fed-ral seat he has
twice contested against Bayley. M.H.R.;
Copley is after the State seat of Bulimba,
at present represented by Mrs. Longman.
The Lord Mayor of Brisbane says that
the time is opportune to ask its overseas credi-
tors to do with less interest, and it is to be
hoped they will agree with him. Brisbane
has raised £9,000,000 in Australia, £5,000,000
in London and £4,000,000 in New York, so
the inhabitants owe about £5B per head as
incorporated citizens, in addition to £l2O
per head as Queenslanders and £5B per head
(war debt, etc.) as Federated Australians.
The present Greater Brisbane was created by
Theodore in 1924, and is alleged to be a model
of what Greater Sydney should be. It covers
385. square miles, and is by far the biggest
city in the Commonwealth when measured
by ground-floor space. The Commonwealth
Bank holds millions of Brisbane securi-
ties, and in its capacity as the institution
which is expected to find money for every-
body it has knocked 1 per cent. (£35,000 per
annum) off the interest bill. No one else
has knocked, except violently, at the front
door.
Though Broken Hill is becoming an air
port of some importance, it has a fight on
hand for tho retention of its hangar. Built,
by Larkins when their service was subsidised,
the hangar is now no good to them; but the
co. is prepared to leave it there for general
use if met in a reasonable .spirit as to secu-
rity of tenure and rent. The Defence De-
partment, however, demands full rent for
the twelvemonth during which the co. has
been out of action, and will grant no
security of tenure. Local explanation of
this extraordinary attitude is that the de-
partment wants to pull the hangar down and
build another at double the cost.
After five years’ experience of radio
broadcasting under private control the M.L.
Government has decided that it could do
better itself. It proposes to set up a board
on the 8.8. C. model, with five members, all
Government appointees. In recent years the
business of entertaining listeners in the
Shivery Isles has been in the hands of a co.
formed by William Goodfellow, managing
director of the N.Z. Co-operative Dairy Co.
His only object was to provide for the needs
of dairy-farmers in the Auckland district,
but the Government disapproved of the issue
of sectional licenses, and he found he must
either cater for the whole Dominion or leave
the cow-cockies without the joys of radio.
The service he organised has been a fairly
good one, and it paid no dividends till the
last year of its five-year contract. Good-
fellow proposed a new co., with a capital of
£150,000, double that of the old one, the
shares to be mostly held by listeners: but the
Government thinks that what profit there
may be in the enterprise had best go to the
Consolidated Fund.
Scullin used to try the patience of the Bruce-
Pages by demanding to know why Major Casey
had been appointed liaison officer in London.
He declared the job a sinecure until he
went to London himself and found Casey as
anxious to help as Moloney (“Moloney con-
curs”). and even more useful. The interest-
ing pair may be associated, as political ene-
mies, in the next House of Reps.; Casey is
after the U.A.P. nomination for the Corio
seat, which the loquacious Lewis fluked in
the Scullidore interest two years ago, and
will not fluke again.
“Since Mr. Hughes turned him out of office, Mr.
Bruce has done a great deal of travelling. He is
off to England again, but expects to be back before
the general election.”
“ Hey, Billy, you mustn’t go on like that.
You’re not Labor, Independent Nation-
alist or Australian party now. You and
Stan belong to my party.”
South African has forthright ideas on
the question of the liberty of the subject
when the subject refuses to behave himself.
Its bankruptcy laws provide for deportation
of fraudulent bankrupts, whether British
citizens or not. But, according to the Min-
ister for Justice, there is need for farther
discouragement of insolvency “as a profes-
sion and means of livelihood”; so from
January next deportation for the fraud-
ulent variety is to be the general rule and
not, as at present, a matter for special con-
sideration by the authorities.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Purser”: A cable the other day told
how Brazil and the U.S.A. were swapping
coffee and wheat; and the papers got their
leader-mills at work on “the revival of
barter.” But, bless you, it’s been going on
for 18 months. We took across a young
pair who were to honeymoon on a dozen bates
of skins the girl’s father had bought. An-
other girl was sent with six tons of dried
fruits: pa has a farm on the river. The
most energetic young person of the lot was
taking some very fine S’Australian wine. A
friend had done quite well in India; she her-
self was going to try Egypt. In her case
it was an uncle —dad’s brother —who had
come to the rescue after the bank said it
was sorry but it really hadn’t the money
to spare for foreign travel and study.
* * * *
“FY7”: To bush parents the tragedy of a
lost child is always a possibility. Sometimes
there is a happy ending, as in the recent
Mossgiel (N.tt.vV.) case, in which a four-
year-old turned up safe and sound after hav-
ing been lost in the bush for six days ; at
others the affair ends on a comic note. One
such I remember was on a Barcoo station
long ago. There was a big party from Blackall
for Christmas, and tennis, then a new game
in western Queensland, was the star attrac-
tion. Close by the court under a shady tree
was a table with a large bowl of claret cup.
The grown-ups were so engrossed in the game
that, when a counting of heads came to be
taken, it was found that a four-year-old
brother of mine was missing. The station was
DOGS I HAVE KNOWN—THE SHOPWALKER.
on a small plain surrounded by miles of heavy
scrub, and there had been several cases of
lost children about that time. Exploring
parties set out on foot and horseback to
comb the scrub, but nothing hapuened for
hours. Then the cook, having occasion to
go into the nuathouse, heard a sound of
snoring. Investigating, he found the missing
heir sleeping it off. The imp had done him-
self splendidly on the claret cup when no
one was looking.
* * * *
“Hamer”: This discussion about spanking
(B. 2/9/’3l) recalls a Paddington identity
who was the most wholesale spanker Sydney
has known. When he judged there was
warrant for it he spanked his parents, his
wife, his sister-in-law and his family, even
when it was adult. A daughter who had
revolted and left home returned to visit her
mother, and found the old-fashioned punish-
ment waiting for her. She took proceedings
for assault, and the whole of the facts came
out. Her pa, so far from being penitent, was
indignant that the law should have inter-
fered with what he claimed, quoting the
Bible, was his duty as head of the family.
His parents had been mentioned, but the
fact was they were ignorant people who
occasionally needed correction. As for his
daughter, he told the Court defiantly when
it was suggested that he should be “bound
over,’’ he would continue to do his duty by
her until she married —then the task would
devolve on her husband.
* * * *
“O’Higgins”: Sailors of all nations are
supposed to be bluff, forthright persons, im-
mersed in their own calling and
giving scant regard to politics, and
the mariners on the Chilean train-
ing-ship which recently visited Syd-
ney certainly ran true to form.
Things might be anyhow in less
favored countries, according to
newspaper interviews with some of
the officers, but Chile was sound
and stably governed, Chile was rea-
sonably prosperous, Chile’s present
Administration was the last word
in quiet efficiency. Since then a
short-lived President has been
thrown out, four Governments have
been formed, part of the army and
all the navy have revolted, the air
force has bombed and machine-
gunned the navy, “the attack bang
directed chiefly at four sub-
marines,” and lots of other unplea-
sant things have happened. It
makes one think that perhaps the
most far-seeing person of all the trans-Pacxfic
visitors that Sydney entertained was the
seaman who dived into the harbor in an
unsuccessful effort to be excused from return-
ing to his own country.
* * * *
“Shep”: Shipboard operations? I wit-
nessed one where the doc. and his staff, clad
solely in shorts, stewed in the heat of the
tropics in a tiny dressing-room on the boat
deck, with a steriliser clouding the room with
steam most of the time. One orderly’s sole
job was mopping the surgeon’s brow and
catching the rivulets of perspiration trick-
ling off his nose, to ensure that nothing
dripped into the open wound. The ship
was stopped for the operation, leaving them
without a breath of wind to cool the fur-
nace they toiled in. As a contrast I saw
Gordon Craig, just dead, in the elaborate
operating theatre of the Karoola, then a float-
ing Hospital, .preparing for a del.cate op. ra ion
in response to a night SOS from an A.I.F.
troopship speeding to Suez. __ Before the
transport had anchored the Karoola’s pin-
nace was on the way back with the patient,
his false teeth stuck in his throat. With
a white-gowned staff in readiness Craig
hauled him under the light, peered down his
throat, dived with forceps, and handed over
to the astonished sufferer, inside of two
minutes, teeth that had speeded up the
arrival of the shipload of troops and disorgan-
ised the arrangements of the port officials.
* *■ * $
“Fifteen Bobber” : There w-as a period in
the life of the late Westralian “TereWth”
when it became “respectable.” The paper
had been doing faitly well, but not well
enough for John Noi*on, so that fiery poten-
tate went over to Perth to. tell the staff
what he thought of it. In vain it was urged
that the staff was doing its best with the
material available, there being a regrettable
famine in crimes of violence, while the
divorce industry had slumped lamentably;
John xvould listen to no excuses. He was
ill this mood when he met Gordon Stronach,
under whom he had worked as a cub re-
porter, and for whose abilities as sub-editor
he had a respect. Unburdening his heart
to Stronach, he was told he was on the
wrong track. “You ate treating Perth as
if it were a smaller Sydney,” Stronach said.
“Well, it’s not. It’s a different public alto-
gether, and it won’t stand the stuff that
suits Pyrmont and Surry Hills. The editors
you have had don’t know what to give it. I
do. Put me in the chair—l’m out of a job,
as I told you—and I’ll see that Perth
gets what it wants.” “It’s a bargain!”
said John; and the transformation of
“Terewth” was begun. Stronach filled
it with reprint of a blameless descrip-
tion. Hardy axemen who had been
regaled with juicy reports of the affair of
Bung and the Barmaid were now entertained
with loyal, if fatuous, accounts of the home
life of the Royal family. Character-sketches
of bishops took the place of dissertations
(with villainous pen-and-ink drawings) on
the Seamy Side of Life. Even the pony-
racing section (there was pony-racing in
Perth then, the river steamer which conveyed
the-sports to one of the courses being known
as “the gunboat’’) was scrapped for a Self-
help column in Samuel Smiles’s vein. Non-
conformist ministers warmly congratulated
the new editor, but the effect on sales was
devastating. In six weeks they dropped from
HER FINANCIER.
“I think Elsie’s boy is a credit to her.”
“Well, if I know Elsie, she’ll need every penny of it.”
6000-odd to 250. Norton, who had gone back
to Sydney, stood it that long; then lie
sacked the moral reformer by telegram in
terms as sultry as the department would
permit. Bung and the Barmaid forthwith
regained their prominence, a contributor
brought in a luscious story about the Loves
of a Lawyer and Tottie the Typist, and the
circulation bounded up to the old figure.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The lower Murray floods have
inspired an Adelaide man to suggest “making
two of it.” The astonishing river, after run-
ning rather north of west for most of its
course, takes a sudden turn at the nor’-west
bend (Morgan), and runs due south to the
sea. The Adelaidean’s suggestion is that it
-—or some of it —should be helped on in the
westerly direction to Spencer’s Gulf. He
asserts that “the engineering difficulties
would not be great.”
* * # #
“Ngaio” : One result of the Buapehu affair,
in which the first Alpine commandment,
“Thou shalt not separate,” was disobeyed,
is that casual mountain-climbing is to be
prohibited in M.L. Some of the casuals have
had astounding luck. Some years ago a
visitor to Mt. Cook, annoyed because some-
one suggested that he could not climb the
giant peak, announced he would ascend it in
belltopper and frock-coat. He did, too,
though he was “all in” at the finish, as was
likewise his attire, it not being precisely
the kit for glissading and swinging at the
end of a rope against walls of ice. Another
visitor got to the summit of Cook alone:
an accident or a blizzard would have doomed
him to certain death. A remarkable ascent of
this mountain was made by Mrs. Thompson,
then over 70. In her case the hazard was
not so great, as she was in company with
her son, one of the finest guides of the
locality, who had wbh him an eoually famous
fellow guide. According to Forbes, the aspir-
ing alpinist of the future will have to be
sound m wind and limb, and to nass muster
in equipment and leadership, before getting
a permit to ascend.
* * * *
“Ping Pong” : Jack of Auburn will throw
out his chin a yard further when he reads
this. It is about a Chinese gentleman who
lias shown again that forgery is the sincerest
flattery. Shek he calls himself—Chiang-
Shck, obviously a corruption of Giant Jack.
Shek. who runs the Government at Nanking,
lately failed to pay his civil service. They,
inconsiderate fellows no matter where they
live, began to make a fuss; whereupon Shek
tried to persuade the local Gibsons to make
further advances. They, however, remem-
bered that Shek had repudiated interest on
earlier advances; so they sat tight on their
treasure chests. To add to the shameless-
ness of Shek’s imitation of Jack, he has just
ordered a cut of 20 per cent, in the salary
that his public servants haven’t been getting,
and on the strength of this phantom economy
it is understood he will budget for a surplus.
* * * *
“ Jeames”: The King’s sacrifice of £50,000
p.a. to help the British Exchequer is more
like a 50 p.c. than a 10 p.c. cut in income. Of
his total revenue of £5OO 000 p.a., nearly four-
fifths is never seen by him. It goes to keep
up vast museums and picture galleries like
Windsor Castle and Hampton Court. The
Royalties occasionally inhabit a wing of
Windsor Castle, and they allow necessitous
friends to live rent free at Wolsey’s old
palace, but beyond that the places are no
more use to them than Westminster Abbey.
King George has been well off compared wflth
his father, who had expensive tastes, but
with £lOOO a week docked off the sum avail-
able for personal expenditure he mil be
definitely hard up. It is practically impos-
sible for anything to be saved on items like
salaries of household (£125.800 p.a.) and
expenses of household (£193,000). As show-
ing how poor an ostensibly-rich man can be,
an Australian G.-G. who was a millionaire
once told me that he had never known what
it was to have £lOOO p.a. of his own to spend.
Nearly the whole of his £40,000 p.a. was
allocated (for dowers, the upkeep of houses
and staffs that he rarely saw, annuities to
ex-servants, taxes and so on), with the
result that he had to think twice before buy-
ing a cheapish car. One of the reasons why
.Tews stand up to slumps so well is that they
rarely become great landed proprietors. They
live in a modest way relatively to their in-
comes, and don’t maintain hordes of retainers.
“McSnaggs”: A humorless Scot may be a
very rare bird, but when you do get one
he is liable to make you think of Samuel
Johnson’s unjustly sweeping generalisation.
I happened on mine in a newspaper office.
Blinker, a freelance, slightly sober, was
arguing heatedly w T ith the accountant over
an amount he regarded as being unjustly
withheld on his last contribution when the
boss, a Caledonian stern and -wild, strode
p..st. The controversy evidently jarred on
him, possibly because he knew it wasn’t
the first on the subject; and he stopped
abruptly. “Pay him what he claims,’’ he
directed the treasurer icily, “and tell the
editor to take no more of his contributions.”
The freelance, full of bitter beer and equally
bitter sarcasm, pulled himself together.
“Thank you, Mr, ,” he riposted with
affected humility; “do you mind my contri-
buting to other newspapers?” The boss
stared at him hard, but finally decided that
the question was put in good faith and entire
seriousness. “No,” he said shortly, “I
don’t,” and passed ponderously on, the shaft
having entirely failed to penetrate his armor.
* * * *
“Wellington”: A Sydney “Sun” corres-
pondent considers it “appalling to see the
crowds of youngsters speculating the few
shillings they have” in the Whiddon lottery.
Many, including Bishop D’Arcy-Irvine, who
found himself in a lottery queue 3000 strong
on his way to make a G.S.B. deposit, have
lodged the same objection. There is nothing
in it. Most of the tickets which the lottery
staff has been getting rid of at the rate of
40,000 a day are bought over the counter for
tobacconists, publicans and the like whose
customers have ordered them. The purchasers
are not gamblers but agents. You can see
the same thing in London where crowds
queue up tor popular entertainments. About
half of those in the queues are dummies
whose principals only come in at the finish.
The difference is that in London the deputies
are usually identifiable, being uniformed mes-
senger boys, whereas the youngsters in the
lottery queues wear mufti.
* * * *
“Tom”: It is perfectly true that the Tas-
manian Government sold a quantity of its
convict records for waste paper (B.
L9/8/’3l). It happened in the ’sixties, and
a well-known firm of jam-makers were among
the purchasers. They had sent out their
first jams in fine white china jars; later, to
cut down costs, tins were substituted, and
these records were used as packing. My
father was a storekeeper, and I saved from
a case sent to him the petition of a convict
whose record was attached.
* * * Sit
“Winkle”: Touching attempts to accli-
matise British game birds in Australia (B.
9/9/’3l), the pheasant, which isn’t, strictly
speaking, a British game bird at all but an
importation from Asia, needs a lot of pam-
pering—or “preserving,” if you prefer it—
and would be unlikely to last long anywhere
without it. The partridge is in an entirely
different case; there doesn’t seem any valid
reason why it shouldn’t be introduced
here with success. It thrives in South
Africa. There are two species, redwing
and greywing, indigenous of course, but
showing no material difference from the
English bird and affording every bit
as good sport. And they are to be found
in surroundings as unlike the English coun-
tryside as possible; the best partridge-shoot-
ing I ever had was on some of the lower
slopes of the Drakensberg. If the English
partridge doesn’t take kindly to Australian
conditions, somebody might experiment with
the Cape bird.
I WONDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder if, when fifty years from now
Men sin and suffer in undreamed-of ways,
And to strange fates their fretted foreheads
bow,
We shall be calling these “the good old
days.”
I wonder if the setting sun serene
A term to Hebe’s liquid task will fix
In courtlier caravanserais—l mean,
If nineteen-eiglity pubs will close at six.
I wonder if the girls will still their knees
Expose, and how their frocks will hang,
And what dictators of what destinies
Will prose in place of Seullin and of Lang.
1 wonder if in fifty years to come
The ripe old farce called “Party” they’ll
rehearse,
Wherein the players in one sense are dumb
And in another sadly the reverse.
I wonder if the Government will try
To introduce a Tax on Taxes Bill,
And say the want of such a tax is why
The blessed budget is unbalanced still.
I wonder if the skirts will rule the men
And ours become a voteless sex, and
meek....
I wonder (how I wonder!) if by then
This darned depression will have passed
its peak.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


THE ROUGH GULLY.
[For The Bulletin. 1
God made the hill yellow and grey,
But it is all green now,
Save where the deep and rugged rift runs in,
Too steep for the plough.
There the tussocks grow;
There couches the hare;
While up in the sun sheep crop the shaven
turf
Level and bare.
You parsons and schools,
Leave us a rift, please—
Some place for the lone old Mousterian man
to lurk
And sin at. his ease!
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
*
“Toowmomba” : About the last job Statis-
tician Wickens saw through the office before
ill-health laid him aside w 7 as the summary of
population and vital statistics for 1930. In
one of the tables he indicates that Australian
fathers were most potent at. 30 years of age;
mothers most fruitful at 25. One precocious
hussy became a mother at 13, and at the
other end of the scale a matron of 53 decided
that another little Aussie wouldn’t do the
family any harm. A gentleman of 82 with a
36-year-old wife imprinted his image on a
little girl.' Of the total of 128.399 new
arrivals, 5935 came ex-nuptially. The
Northern Territory was at the top of this
table of impropriety with a record of 19.72
per cent, of total births (50 per cent, of its
June babies were born out of wedlock) ; the
F.C.T. w r as at the bottom, its degree of
naughtiness amounting to only 1.22 ner cent.
But you’d expect that of Canberra, wouldn’t
you ?
ij: «
' “Vic.” : I can sympathise, though a drinker,
with the opposition to that proposal to
give the chalet at Mt. Buffalo a liquor
license. The axiom that “prohibition doesn't
prohibit” has to be qualified. Compare the
streets by night now, wdien the only drinks
procurable are non-alcoholic, with what they
were before six-o’clock closing. You never
see a drunk at a talkie; there were plenty
at theatres and music-halls years avn. And
yon don’t see drunks at resorts like Mt.
Buffalo, though visitors can bring drink there
if they like; public sentiment is hostile, as it
is at the talkies. The average Australian
when confronted by a drunk in a normally
sober environment argues like this: “There
are plenty of places for him to get drunk in
legitimately—hotels, clubs and wineshops.
Why make a nuisance of himself here?” In
other words, prohibition is approved of by
all as long as there isn’t too much of it.
Boozing is only fashionable in the U.S.A.
because the law. by banning it everywhere,
has raised drunks to the moral status of
protestants on behalf of a principle.
■** * *
“Runa” : The Maori, in common with the
Australian abo., has a weakness for giving
his offspring names with a suggestion of
pakeha culture. I have met a youthful
Whisky, a Biscuit and a Duke —the Duke
answered in Maori to Tuki. In the days of
Queen Victoria it w 7 as fashionable to name
girl babies Wikitoria, and for boys the name
Waipiro (firewater) was deplorably popular.
But the Maori has ever a poetic touch about
FLAMES.
"Dora, do be careful —your husband tells me you are playing with fire.”
“Yes, dear; the man you saw me talking to is — well, I suppose he’s one of the sticks.”
him. The family to which Whisky and Bis-
cuit belonged had a tiny girl, born when the
wild pigeons were feeding on the Ivonini
berries, who bore the name of Whira-whira,
which, as her father said, was “the sound
of pigeons’ wings.” i
}Jj 'Jfi. V
“Gaggle”: I note that the annual cere-'
mony of marking the swans on. the Thames
has revealed a great increase in the birds,
which are owned by the Crown and two of
the London Livery companies. One of these,
the Vintners, has established a flock of Aus-
tralian black swans, and the exiles are doing
as w T ell as their white relatives. These birds
are free to fly as they will, but for some
reason never migrate as do their wild breth-
ren in Europe. The “upping,” as the mark-
ing is called, is a stately ceremonial with
festive accompaniments; the birds are
marked by nicking the beaks, each pro-
prietary having its own number. The up-
keep of the birds with their attendant swan-
herds seems to be largely a matter of tradi-
tion, apart from their ornamental value, for
the swan has long ceased to be a table bird.
* * * a:
“P.X.” : One of the most horrible results
of depression is that it can turn something
that looked like a nice, kind, useful family
cow 7 into a roaring, raging lion with an
enormous hunger. Ask my friend Flip.
Plip, seeing the quick grow 7 tli of Katoombu
and Ls ura, now combined to make the hub
of Sydney’s Blue Mountains, bougnt a sub-
division block handy to both. He hadn’t
quite finished cutting it up and making
streets and so on when he was
called away to England, and
left his affairs in the hands of
an agent. At that moment the
borrowing boom collapsed sud-
denly ; and wdien my friend
Flip, after being absent IS
months, returned, it was to be
handed, not a cheque for the
proceeds of the sale, but a. bill
for nearly £2OOO and an inti-
mation that rates and taxes
were costing hundreds a year.
“Sell for what you can get,” the
owner barked back. ‘‘Can’t
get anything,” the agent replied.
“Well, give the darned thing
aw r ay !” howled the owner. Then
began a search for somebody
who would accept the thing as
a gift; but there were no takers.
In despair the owner decided
to ask the council to take the
land over for the purposes of a
public park; and it is under
stood to be walling—provided
rates are paid up to date. But
even the rate lion isn’t so hun-
gry as the call lion. One con-
cern which closed its doors the
other day has sold a hundred
thousand shares of £5, each paid
to £l, and holders are lying
awake at nights waiting for somebody to |
knock on the door with a demand for the
unpaid £4. True, that liability ought to
have been obvious ; but as long as the gentle
go-getter lives the lion will bn dressed up
to look like a benevolent Strawberry.
:J: * * *
“Contact”: Hollywood, by means of its
talkies showing American aviators perform-
ing miracles of skill and daring in war and
peace, and its news-gazettes in which U.S.A.
’planes blacken the skies, has created a world-
wide impression that Uncle Sam rules the
air. The bluff is called every time the
Schneider Cup contest comes round. The
truth is that, apart from the plodding busi-
ness of commercial flying, America is a long
way behind Europe in the air and always
has been. It is a matter of pilots as much
as ’planes. The French and Italians with-
drew 7 from this year’s Schneider Cup contest
largely because they weren’t sure of their
aces. Unique qualifications are needed to
guide a machine through the air at close on
400 m.p.li.: in addition to superb health and
physique the pilot must have featherweight
hands and a reckless valor that rarely goes
with delicacy of touch or anything else. .The
Frenchman Guynemer, a T.B. subject, was
the most remarkable example of the combina-
tion the world of flying has known. Britain
has half a dozen freaks of the type at the
present time; France and Italy have perhaps
one apiece ; America has none. Lindbergh, the
U.S.A.’s best-advertised airman, could no
more fly an S6B Vickers Supermarine than
he could do justice to a G.N. favorite at
Aintree.
“Black George”: The mantrap exhibited
at the Hobart, show 7 (B. 9/9/’3l) was
doubtless brought out in the early days
by some English squire and sturdy upholder
of eighteentb-eentury and early-nineteenth-
century traditions. I have seen one or two
of them, grim and rusty relics of the
bad old days, as obsolete as the rack or the
thumbscrew. They were originally designed,
of course, as springes for poachers. I
can recall as a boy seeing more than once
outside well-stocked coverts in the west of
REBECCA ANNOUNCES HER ENGAGEMENT.
England frayed and hardly legible but still
menacing notices, “Mantraps Set Here.”
Such legends might have survived the genuine
article for 50 years, but there was still a
shudder in them and a warning against tres-
pass—for imaginative youth, anyhow.
‘ * * . ’ "
•Spokesman’: Devices for the entrapping
of marauders (B. 9/9/31) were common
on the pioneer goldfields. I remember one, an
mgemous combination of a small cannon, and
a large box frame, calculated to get the un-
wary one way or the other, lhe cannon,
loaded with a heavy charge of powder and a
couple of handfuls of rock salt and pebbles,
was fired by the falling of a spring hammer
on a percussion cap. The spring was a set
of four points. A hole at the end of each
permittod the attachment of a long string or
wire usually connected with the sluice-boxes.
The thief moving about the boxes touched one
of these and the charge was fired, lie would
then leave in a hurry—if he could. lhe
trap was designed to catch anyone approach-
ing the boxes by the path used by the claim-
holders. It worked on the principle of the
ordinary rat-trap, and what it took in it held,
“Horse Marine”: While setting out the
piebald ratings of the world’s navies, “Mate-
lot” (B 9/9/’3l) forgot the lower-deck per-
sonnel 'of the Indian Marine, which is
exclusively native; indeed, the gun- and
ward-rooms are now being invaded by local
gentlemen of color. The Imperial Navy also
employs West Africans on that station,
mostly Kroo boatmen for the surf landings,
Even the R.A.N occasionally impresses
the seagoing Torres Strait abo. when
in northern waters. I am wondering, too,
at “M.’s” statement that “Pathans” are
employed as stokers in parts of the tropics,
The Pathan is no tropical bird ; he lives in
one of the coldest climates in the world, far
from the sea. From what the writer knows
of him, stoking is about the last thing he
would ever turn his hands to. He is first
and last an agriculturist of sorts, a horse-
and a fighter with a strong leaning to
robbery and murder.
“X.N.0.” : “Matelot” should not have
referred to the Maltese in support of his
statement that the personnel of the Royal
Navy is “remarkably mixed in hue,” lumping
them in with “islanders, North Africans
and Malays.” Malta has been a stronghold
of Christianity as well as a renowned cul-
tural centre since St. Paul was wrecked there
in a.d. 58. Whatever may have been the
beginnings of the race, the Maltese, with
officers supplied by the Knights of St. John,
dealt a death-blow to the Crescent when
the Turkish hordes laid siege to the island
in 1;,65. Moreover, Malta has been British
since 1-98, and the Navy has a very high
regard for the services rendered to it by the
islanders. # ...
~T " „ " . /t>
TfW The free counter-lunch (B.
2/9/’3l) lingers in all its old-time glory m
Launceston. Throughout the winter curried
scollops are dished out, hot. and steaming,
while cold boiled fowl, hot rissoles, sausages,
sandwiches, salads and pickles adorn the
counter. About 18 months ago the Tas.
L.Y.A. tried to stop this hospitable custom,
but Launceston publicans, after dismally sur-
veying their empty bars for two days, defied
the association, and added roast turkey to the
menu a s a symbol of revolt. The L.V.A. then
barred scollops, but the sportive little crea-
tures (for which, by the way, Sydney is
acquiring a taste) were served as usual,
After all. a pub’s a brighter place when a
counter-lunch is on.
* * * *
“Perker” : In a recent Sydney murder trial
there happened to be a retired police
offieer on the jury. a”d counsel for the defence
later entered a mild protest on the ground
that such a juryman would be “likely to draw
and expound inferences «o as to nullify the
protection given by law 7 to accused persons.”
The Judge very properly told him that it was
a matter for the Legislature; as it hadn’t
chosen to exempt ex-policemen from jury ser-
vice ’Sonah Wouldn’t think of recommending
such a course. There doesn’t seem to be any
valid reason for such an exemption anyhow.
A jury is supposed to be taken from ail
classes, and wivile it is probable tnat many
impassioned appeals from defending counsel
for accused persons would be wasted on ex-
police officers, on the other hand much of the
cold logic of Crown prosecutors goes the same
way when addressed to benevolent persons
with, no inside knowledge of the life of Ibe
criminal classes. A man who has left the force
is pretty certain to know a great deal more
about the value of evidence than the average
juryman, and why should it be assumed
that he must be prejudiced against the
accused? In any case, he can be challenged.
“Equis” : If “Garbiue” only keeps his eye
cocked (B. 9/9/’3l) he will find plenty of
riders about Sydney, though most of them
are women. On occasions Centennial Park
is positively dangerous to the pedestrian, in-
fested as it is by female saddle-flappers with
very elementary ideas of whither their steeds
are taking them. There are, too, one or
two suburban associations which organise
gymkhanas and paper chases occasionally,
and at these the male rider may be glimpsed.
One equestrian whom I sometimes see on
Sunday mornings riding a huge and hairy-
heeled nag about the deserted streets presents
a truly amazing sight. He has a cavalry-
pattern saddle and wears the most extra-
ordinary boots in captivity. Imagine the
Life Guardsman’s thigh-high boots, but made
of chrome leather instead of polished black,
add a pair of the old-time polo spurs with
necks five inches long, and you have the
picture.
“D.”: Recent Sydney Court decisions
endanger the lives of most N.S.W. dogs. The
first made public what every lawyer knew
before —that any collarless N.S.W. canine
wandering at large may be legally slain, and
that it is the duty of the police to slay it.
Being what is known as a “‘distasteful law
it had remained in abeyance till a dog-assas-
sin based, liis defence on it with effect. The
other decision took an unusual view of the
status of watchdogs, a District Court Judge
holding that the owner of one that attacked
a trespasser was liable in heavy damages ;
and the more so if he had “Beware of the
Dog” notices up. The Judge argrued that
this meant the owner knew his animal was
dangerous. He quoted Sir John Salmond
(“Torts”) in support:—
A man does not forfeit liis legal rights by becom-
ing a trespasser, and is not to be treated as the
occupier pleases.
It seems to conflict with a much later pro-
nouncement in the King’s Bench Division: —
If I see a man breaking into my house by night
I am justified in taking my gun and shooting him
dead.
Anyhow the law needs rectification, so far
as N. S. Wales is concerned. The family
dog is practically the only defender of law
and order in many out-of-the-way parts,
and if he is effectively immobilised crimes
against the person and property are bound
to increase.
“S.McI”: Further to the policing of Nor-
folk Island (B. 19/8/’3l), I was domiciled
there in 1915, and the police force, far from
being non-existent, was quite an imposing
one for a population of 900 or so. There
were an acting-head of police (£lB2 10s.), :>
superintendent (£7O), a corporal-c«»i-gaoler
(£45 and quarters) and a constable (£25).
8,: :*c :Js
“Quot”: A cable mentions that “the official
population of Rome for the first time has
passed the million mark.” This suggests
quick going for the Eternal City under the
Mussolini regime; ten years ago the tally
was under 700,000. But the assumption
that Rome never had a million inhabitants
before is surely a risky one.. There are his-
torians who have assigned it a bigger popu-
lation in the days of the early Csesars than
any city, except perhaps London and New
York, can show to-day. True, tnev had no
census to go on, but there were certain
records about the number and capacity or
buildings and dwelling-houses that enabled
rough estimates to be drawn. Fon popula-
tion as well as wealth it w 7 as Rome first and
the rest nowhere w'hen the Christian era
began.


EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast*
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
(flbmmoiiwcaltl) Savings Bank of Hustralia
C Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Commonwealth public service will lose
its tallest member when Solicitor-General
Garran retires at the end of the month.
Garran is 6ft. sin., and still physically vigor-
ous, as well as being in his intellectual
prime. He is devoted to Melbourne and
billiards. Garran drafted the War Pre-
cautions Act for Hughes—a masterpiece of
efficiency—and still remains one of the ex-
dictator’s friends and admirers.
George Macarthur-Onslow, who died of
pneumonia with tragic suddenness at Camden
(N.S.W.) on Saturday, was the most dis-
tinguished soldier his big family has produced,
lie enlisted as a lad of 18 in the Sydney
Lancers 35 years ago, and left for Egypt
as second in command of the 7tli Light Horse
in 1914. When J. M. Arnott, his C. 0., was
invalided he took over, made no mistakes,
and was presently given the sth (L.H.)
Brigade. His most spectacular feat was the
capture of 5000 prisoners from the 12th
Turkish Army during the race for Damascus.
Sound judgment, indifference to danger and
care of his men were his outstanding quali-
ties as an officer. After the war Macarthur-
Onslow “went back to the milk trade,” as he
used to say, and. made a success of that, too.
Every milk co. and dairy farmers’ association
of note in the State were represented at his
military funeral on Sunday. He was a fresh-
faced, smiling six-footer, with a democratic
manner and a vast circle of friends of all
classes and creeds, by whom he was beloved
and trusted. His memory for faces was
uncanny, and he kept in touch with most of
those who had served with him. He never
entered politics, though he was a hard-work-
ing alderman of his shire and had been Mayor
of Camden four times. ITe married Miss
Violet Gordon, of Manar, who with a daugh-
ter survives him.
Charles Joachim Goode, Chief Commis-
sioner under Lang’s new State Transport
Act, joined the railways nearly 40 years ago
as a probationer. He then got £6 10s. per
annum. His present screw, despite Lang’s
threat to bring everyone down to £5OO, is
£1750 p.a. Goode, a native of Goulburn,
toiled as a youngster in the Chief Traffic
Manager’s office in Sydney, and was
later chief clerk to the District Superinten-
dent in his native tow r n. Twelve years ago
he was a kind of offsider to the Chief Traffic
Manager; two years later he w r as appointed
Goods Superintendent, and in January of
last year he became Chief Traffic Manager.
When Lang announced his intention of plac-
Chief N.S.W. Transport Commissioner
GOODE.
ing railways, tramways and road administra-
' ion under a commission, he asked for the
release of Goode from railway duties so that
he might help in preparing the necessary
legislation. Cleary at first refused, but pre-
sently agreed. A little later the Railway Com-
missioners fired Goode, alleging misconduct
and maladministration. In reply Lang called
upon the Acting Crown Solicitor to inquire;
his report was that there was “a fatal flaw
in the procedure followed.”
AY. H. (“Bishop”) Barnes, Treasurer of
Queensland, celebrated his 73rd birthday last
week. Probably he did it with lemonade or
tea, for he has been a teetotaller all his life,
though it hasn’t affected his natural genial-
ity. Afictorian-born, Barnes arrived in
Queensland 66 years ago with his coach-
driving dad, and after his schooldays went
into commercial life. When he entered the
Leg. Assembly 30 years ago he was a pros-
perous produce merchant. His association
with Digby Denham earned the Denham
Ministry the nickname of the Butterbox
Government. Sane, industrious and as
straight as they make ’em, the “Bishop” is
well liked in the House, and when a Sydney
Labor politician professed to detect a fish-
like smell in the action he took when there
was a run on the little Brisbane banks
Forgan Smith, leader of the Labor Opposi-
tion, sprang to his defence.
The imperturbable Wilkins is back at Spits-
bergen in his submarine, the Nautilus, after
having—not for the first time—been given
up for lost. Wilkins has now footed it on
polar ice, flown above it and cruised under
GEORGE HERBERT WILKINS, who has
returned safe and sound from another
daring adventure.
it; but it is not in his nature to brag about
the unique achievement. He has also, since
his Adelaide School of Mines days, taken
battle photographs in two wars, navigated a
’plane from England to Australia, been to
the Antarctic, prospected the Gulf country
as a naturalist, collected decorations (the
M.C. and bar among them) and a title and
written books. And he is still young—he
won’t be 43 till the end of next month.
At a reputed 74, though there are lots of
people who won’t believe it, Sid Kidman’s
chief regret at the big annual horse sale
which, he holds at Kapunda is that he can’t
any longer jump on an unbroken horse’s back
and drive it round the yard. Sid was born
at Kapunda, one of a handful of boys,
and he has stuck to his home-town wonder-
fully : the horse sale is one of the profitable
treats he gives it. Horses are combed in
from Kidman’s own stations and from the
north of S. Australia and the West Darling;
this year he sold 221 head for prices running
from £4 to £3l—the latter for heavy
draughts. He still has plenty of spring;
but details nowadays are mostly left to son
Walter and a son-in-law, one of the timber-
and-ironmongery Reids, of Adelaide.
John Coughlan, a man who had much to
do with the founding of the timber industry
in Westralia, has died at East Malvern
(Vic.) in his 80th year. Crossing to the
West in the early ’nineties with the late C. G.
and E. F. Millar, the Melbourne railway
contractors, who built the Great Southern
line (Albany-Beverley), Coughlan buried
himself for weeks in the karri and jari'ah
forests, and reported so favorably on their
extent that the Millars launched out into
sawmilling on a big scale. For several years
he managed their karri mills at Denmark;
then he became managing director of the
Kurrawang Firewood Supply Co. on the
’fields, subsequently establishing the Kal-
goorlie-Boulder Firewood Co., and another
at Gwalia.
R. C. Packer, lately of Smith’s News-
papers, went over to Associated News this
week as managing editor. Some time ago
Joynton Smith sold the “Guardian” and
“Sunday Guardian” to Associated News;
and Packer’s transfer probably means that
payments have been slow. Delamore McCay
will continue to be editor of the “Sun,” and
Tom Dunbabin of the “Telegraph.” Packer,
a Tasmanian, was sub-editor of the “Sun”
in its early years, and has had a long experi-
ence in sensational journalism. But he will
find it hard to beat the “Sun” poster of a
day or two before he crossed over: “Man
Blows Woman’s Face to Bits.”
Up to date about 500 people have held
original fourteenth shares in the Broken Hill
mines. It is interesting therefore to read
the names mentioned in the syndicate s
minute-book: first recorded meeting was
held at Mt. Gipps, March 18, 1885; last
at De Baun’s Hotel, Silverton, July 16,
1885. At the first meeting McCulloch, Brod-
ribb, Jamieson, Charley, Rasp Hawkins
were present. Next meeting: Keats and
Kelly also present; and Low represented
Rasp, from whom he had bought a half-
share. Next W. R. Wilson was “elected a
director.” At the final meeting at which
it was decided to form the syndicate into
the B. H. Prop, the 14 on the record were:
Wilson, Thomson, Brodribb, McCulloch,
Hawkins, Charley, Wiseman, Kelly, Rasp,
Cox, Jamieson, Dalglish, James; and Poole
(absent). But some of the l-14th holders
had no doubt sold halves or more.
J. ,C. Brunnich, who is retiring from the
Queensland Department of Agriculture, has
been an outstanding figure in agricultural
chemistry. Born at Gorizia (then in Austria
but now part of Italy) in 1861, he was edu-
cated in Switzerland, and after experience
in Russia arrived in Queensland in 1885.
For some years he was chief chemist and
milling expert for the C.S.R. a>t Mackay.
His work there brought him an offer from
the Government in 1896, since when the
State has profited greatly by his labors as an
agricultural chemist, and his knack of com-
municating his enthusiasm to younger men.
Frank Mauger, who has been made chair-
man of Vic. Parliamentary press gallery
committee, has led the “Age” staff in the
perch above the Speaker for several years.
He writes the informative and often piquant
summary which the Syme journal publishes
after each sitting of the Assembly. He is a
son of Samuel Mauger, who was Deakin's
Postmaster-General for 15-| months (1907-
.08), and who is even better remembered in
Victoria as an apostle of Protection and sec-
retary of the Anti-Sweating League.
Geoff King, who won the 50-mile Aerial
Derby on Saturday with a sensational dive
—one of the most remarkable bits of piloting
ever seen in these parts—is an “amateur
rider,” an electrician in his working hours,
and a son of the Laurie King who has long
been known in the wholesale stationery trade.
H'e is married, with two children, and gives
up flying every few months. An earlier gen-
eration of the King family owned the Adel-
aide “Advertiser.”
Frank Ben.net, who died on Sunday, aged
75, was the doyen of Sydney’s skin special-
ists when he retired in 1925. He made his
name in College-street, and only moved to
Macquarie-street when his career was end-
ing. A small, stout Scot, he was noted for
his kindliness and generosity, and his pride
in his native land. He had been a member
of the Australian Club for 30 years.
A. G. Ralston, K.C., of Sydney, has a
trouble that the doctors can’t do anything
for. He went to England with his brother-
in-law. Tom Raine, and other members of
the family on a health trip in 1926, had a
stroke shortly after his return, and has been
unconscious ever since. Ralston had a bril-
liant career as a member of the outer Baa-,
but, as often happens, didn't fare so well
after taking silk. He was an Acting-Judge
for a time, but he did his best work for the
State as a keen yet most judicial Crown
Prosecutor.
South Aus. has had nothing but kind
things to say of “old Tom” Gluyas, whom it
buried a week ago. Tom, born at Moonta,
went into the railways’ loco department
young, and stayed there till at 54 he was
The late TOM GLUYUS, S. Aus. M.L.C.
sent to the Leg. Council as member for the
Central district. For years he was presi-
dent of the Engineers’ Society and one of
the soundest men on the Trades and Labor
Council. v '
The biggest funeral Adelaide has seen
since Ross Smith’s was that of Peter Gillen,
dead at 39. Son of an old-time politician,
Gillen did sterling war service. H‘e became
president of the Diggers at Glonelg. and lat-
terly had made an outstanding success as
manager of the R.S. club in the city.
For 40 years past it hasn’t been possible
to reside for more than five minutes in
Napier (M.L.) without hearing the name of
Vigor Brown, who has served on every local
body in the place and is on the directorate
of most of its important cos. He’s a dry-
goods merchant who served his apprentice-
ship with Sargoods in Melbourne, his parents
having brought him from Scotland at a very
early age. He reached M.L. in 1875, and
J. VIGOR BROWN, Mayor of Napier.
■ settled down in Napier two yeai's later.
Vigor Brown has been living up to his
Christian name ever since, and when the
earthquake wrecked his town he took a lead-
ing part in putting things shipshape. He is
interested in gee-gees, and is a vice-presideni
of the Napier Park R. C.
The Last Post has sounded at Dunedin
over Daniel Dutton, who saw the Boer
War through as Presbyterian padre to a
Maoriland contingent, and as senior chaplain
conducted the thanksgiving service at Veree-
niging on the Sunday after the signing of
peace. Though close on 70 in 1014. the Itey.
Dutton went overseas on the hospital ship
Maheno. which spent much time nosing about
Gallipoli and the Mediterranean.
John Iloworth, who has called it a day
in Brisbane, at 70, was never quite sure
whether he was a York or Lancaster man.
for he was born at Haslingden, which
straddles the border between the two coun-
ties. He reached Queensland in the early
’eighties, and soon made a success in the
sharebroking and mining line, being con-
nected with many companies at Gyrnpie and
Charters Towers, as well as with Mt. Mor-
gan. In the roaring days of the Westralian
fields he transferred to the other side of
Australia and became a member of Perth
Stock Exchange: hut he returned to Queens-
land and the old life, retiring a few years
ago.
“Bertie” Moore, of the Westralian School
of Mines, has been awarded the degree
of Doctor of Science by Adelaide Uni.
for “published and unpublished original
scientific work.” Moore went to the
university from Prince Alfred’s College.
In 1900 he secured his B.Sc.; in 1902
a diploma in mining engineering and metal-
lurgy, as well as a fellowship of the South
Aus. School of Mines; in 1913 he became a
8.E.; in 1927 an M.E. Born in Maoriland,
he is a foundation member of the Aus.
Chemical Institute, and for recreation he
plays golf.
Archibald McDougall is not the first
Tas. Rhodes Scholar to receive an appoint-
ment at Manchester University. John
Orr, who landed the Rhodes bounty in 1906,
has been Professor of French -at Manchester
Uni. for many years. He paid a visit to
his home town, Launceston, two years ago
for the first time since he left.
John Galsworthy knows this part of the
world. When Mr. Milner, rector of Waitaki
(M.L.) High School, visited him at his home
in Hampstead, the author showed himself
fully conversant with Percy Smith’s theories
on the Maori’s origin and migrations. Some
40 .years ago Galsworthy visited Australia
and Maoriland, his purpose being to familiar-
ise himself with navigation in preparation
for the Admiralty Bar. From Adelaide he
was a passenger in the sailing-vessel Tor-
rens for. the Cape, the mate being Joseph
Conrad ; also aboard was Jonques, who dis-
covered Conrad’s literary ability.
The new Engineer for Surveys in S. Aus.
is F. M. Stuart, who has been in the Land
Office all through a long and busy life. He
is a brother of W. L. Stuart Master of the
Supreme Court, who during the war was also
commandant of the Mitcham camp.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described ns “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
' tlie establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sunt assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, " WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing . Director. General Secretary.
r)
m
For a trouble-free enjoyable and
romantic journey to England, travel
Canadian Pacific.
Canadian Pacific Brains
Zhavel LwaVuj urntfuaUed
What trains . . . what speed and com-
fort, and, above all, what service. C.P.R.
trains are veritable hotels on wheels.
Delightful appointments, observation
cars, dining cars, showers, white waiters.
No wonder Canadian Pacific travellers
enjoy that glorious 600-mile journey
through the Canadian Pacific Rockies.
Just another link in the Canadian Pacific
Australia to England travel system.
Details and literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 4/312
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
ZJhe World's Gteofesf-Z/i'ayel System
PIONEER Belting
"THE many long-service records
established by Pioneer Leather
Belting, justify its specification for
the hardest and most difficult
drives. There is no guesswork
when you buy Pioneer Belting,
because there is, a special grade
to suit, each type of drive and
every working condition. lor
many years of dependable service,
•specify
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne;
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1917. . 260,004 10 p.c. = 77,504 ) -no one nnn
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 j uaj > uulJ
1918.. 207,504 10 p.c. = 77,504 130,000 525,000
1919.. 152,452 15 „ „ 116,257 36,195 561,195
wi. reeonsirucieu. Assets written up.
£1,550,090 transferred to capital.
1920.. 88,713* 3f p.c. = 87,192 1,521 47,521
1921 . 231,725 74 „ „ 174,385 57,340 104,861
1922.. 199,485 7\ „ ~ 174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 74 „ ~ 174,385 36,904 166,865
1924.. 215,257 74 „ ~174,385 40,872 207,737
1925. . 228,118 7\ „ „ 174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 7J „ ~ 180,198 44,402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ „ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182,836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370,839
1929.. 149,755 54 „ ~ 127,882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 o" „ ~139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
of year only.
The hold-up at Maitland, which had inter-
fered with the co.’s coal-carrying trade, bun-
kering supplies and returns from its coal
investments (it was largely interested in the
old Abermain and East Greta cos.j. was called
off just before the last term began. But the
growing slackness in industry caused such
a heavy falling away of cargoes that a
large portion of the fleet had to be laid up.
Because of this, and a v cut in freight rates,
dwindling passenger traffic, lighter returns
from investments and heavier taxation there
was a slip of £4!),!)70 in the year’s disclosed
net. earnings. These, which include unex-
plained additions of £lO,OOO each to the insur-
ance account (£240,000) and repairs, re-
newals and replacements reserve, were 4.8
p.c. on capital as against 7, 6.4, 7.8, 9.9 and
9.6 p.c. back .to 1926; so a couple of points
were knocked off the div., reducing it to 4 p.c.
Still, the thfee-for-one gift-serin issue in
1919 makes 4 p.c. worth 12 p.c. to old
holders. But that gift was only made possible
by wmr-time conditions; increasing competi-
tion from rail and motor transport and the
recent general change in the trading outlook
have checked the call for inter-State vessels,
leaving the co. with cargo space in excess of
the demand for it. To relieve the strain the
Milluna (5681 tons) was sold last year;
no hint is given as to how the transaction
panned out.
During the year the co. bought seven tugs
from the estate of John Brown; these and
its towage business at Sydney and Newcastle
were passed over to a subsidiary, the Waratah
Tug and'Salvage Co., Ltd. Further, J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham Collieries, Ltd.
(paid capital £1,900,000), was formed to
amalgamate the. Browns’ coal interests with
those of Abermain (old capital, £1,200,000)
and East Greta (old capital, £600,000). The
last two of the vendors received fully-paids
in the proportion of two for three and one
for two respectively. The collieries under
the control of the new co. include Pelaw
Main, Richmond Main, Abermain, Ducken-
field. Seaham, Stockrington and the two
Stanford Merthyrs ; what dividend has been
paid, if any, is not mentioned. However,
threatened legislative control of outputs,
divs. and a host, of other things has made
the outlook for the industry very obscure.
To what extent all this may have affected
the Adelaide Co.’s figures is not ascertainable
from the published accounts; nothing has
been openly struck off. Here is the mixture,
well compounded, as the board puts it, up:—-
1929. 1930. 1931.,
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Liabilities . . 245,562 193,159 108,877
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,531,147 ) „ „„„ „„„
Commonwealth Loans 483,650 ) 2 >937,627 2,953,769
Stocks and stores 58,014 57,450 46,230
Book debts & cash 142,575 222,971 128,452
A new motor vessel for the Spencer Gulf
trade was launched shortly before the close
of accounts. Altogether, £16,142 net was
added to the book value of the omnibus item
during the year; it includes a large wad of
Government securities, the return from which
will be affected by the conversion. Cash, etc.
was drawn upon for £94.519, and £B4 282
was knocked off the debt. The position is
obviously comfortable.
For the last 12 months the pound shares
have been fairly steady in the market around
15s. The return at 15s. is 5.6 p.c. on a 4p c.
div. basis; the book value of the backing is
235. 9d. in net tangibles.
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
36,076
1926.. 31,251 Bp.c.= 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ „ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928. . 48,741 10 „ ~ 37,396 ) 10 345 6 9,328
Provident fund, £lOOO ) ’
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000.. .. .. 89,328
1929. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 1 lg _ 859 los 187
Provident fund, £l5OO )
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 / qqq 114 180
Provident fund, £l5OO j
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 ) g 049 122,229
Provident fund, £lOOO j ’
This energetic Brisbane concern bought
Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery, part of
its Brisbane plant, and the trade of some
70 hotels for £lOO,OOO in scrip about three
years ago. The scrip (12s. 6d. face value)
was issued at a premium of 2s. 6d., and
reserves benefited by £20.000. Also the
present title was substituted for the clumsy
old one of Castlemaine Brewery and
Quinlan, Gray and Co. Later some of
the hotel freeholds were bought for £90,000
(cash) ; 140,000 new shares were put out
at par for the purpose. All this added
£250,000 to the share register, raising paid
capital to £625,000 in a million fully-paid
12s. 6d. shares at July 31.
Earnings responded immediately, the net
result reaching 13.4 p.c. on average capital
in 1929 compared with Castlemaine-Quin-
lan’s 13, 11.6 and 11.4 p.c. back to 1926.
But the sharp drop in national income
and the growth of unemployment have spoiled
turnover; also there has been a quick
fall in the .value of hotel properties, in-
cluding rentals, while excise and other taxes
have mounted rapidly. So, after setting aside
something for contingencies, the profit for
1930 slipped back to 11.1. p.c. on capital
and to' 9.4 p.c. for the last term, when the
2 p.c. bonus, sent out in each of the three
preceding years, was dropped, leaving the
div. at 8 p.c.
What the future holds it is, of course,
impossible to say. There are reserves with
a book value of £122,229 as a visible
buttress for capital, and this co. and
the Queensland Brewery share about four-
fifths of the trade in their home State,
where the position is not quite so acute as
elsewhere in the Commonwealth. But until
conditions become more settled trading re-
sults will remain shrouded in uncertainty.
However, the co. is well equipped, and is
digging in, as this next comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures shows; —
1927. 1929. 1980. 1931.
Paid capital. , £372,694 £622,425 £623,993 £625,000
Liabilities . . 69,361 116,386 119,186 103,261
Brewery, plant,
ete 159,029 310,370 308,406 313,312
Warehouse . . 23,580 32,188 32,248 33,508
Hotels . . 151,095 268,474 311,087 326,419
Stock . . 66,516 108,257 102,310 79,341
Debtors . . 107,269 148,903 129,105 114,648
Cash, etc. .. 5«,429 1-1,363 6,889 9,248
At July 31 the more or less liquid surplus
(£99,976, including stocks) was £19,142
lighter than at the previous balance, due
mainly to the expenditure of £15,332 more
than was written off on hotel properties.
It is claimed that these properties are con-
servatively valued, and that the plant is
thoroughly efficient; much depends upon that.
The market prices the scrip at par or
thereabouts; it is covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 14s. lid.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong)
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 11,518 7 p.c. = 10,500 1018 24,955
1922.. 15,838 7 „ „ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 „ „ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1925.. 21,676 7 „ „ 12.030 9646 2,183
1926.. IS,BOI 7 „ „ 14,000 4801 6,981
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 )
Superannuation Fund, £2OOO )
1928.. 25,186 84 p.c. = 16,500 8686 20,060
Net premiums on new shares, £4450.. 24,510
Added goodwill, £lO.-000 . . .. 14,510
1929.. 32,137 7 p.c. = 18,926 ) 9 o 79 i
Taxation Reserve, £4OOO j
1930.. 10,450 5 p.c. = 15,000 19,i71
Loss.
1931.. 4,099 Nil 15,072
Hard to say whore shareholders are. At
the tail of the boom the co. plunged into
the pastoral-finance business, borrowing
heavily for the purpose ; and visibly its re-
serves are shallow —£15,072 in excess of
goodwill (£60,000) at June 30. The col-
lapse of prices has bitten ‘ deeply into com-
mission earnings, upon which the debt now
presses heavily, and has frozen some of the
advances hard, making necessary a revision
of the book value of securities; Also, the
livestock section of the business, to which
a lot of attention had been given lately, lias
proved unprofitable.
Last year wool averaged £lO 7s. 3d. a
bale in Vic. as against £l2 19s. lid., £22
Os. 9d. and £25 6s. 7d. for the three preced-
ing seasons. The co. sold 4971 fewer bales
(51,417), and the turnover in sheep was
£56,289 lighter, notwithstanding that an
extra 118,593 jumbucks passed under the
hammer. So, after writing off . something
for bad debts, and providing for further
contingencies, there was a slip of £27,846
in gross profits :
Gross Profits. Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1929.. £55,356 £20,245 £14,836
1924.. 58,174 23,709 19,151
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31,879
1927.. 92,223 34,685 37,147
1928.. 91,373 36,040 30,147
1929.. 114,195 43,364 38,694
1930.. 92,777 44,359 37,968
1931.. 64,931 37,859 31,171
Exes, were got back only £13,297, so a loss
of £4099 showed up, and no div. was paid.
For the previous year the profit was 3.4 p.c.
on average capital as against 11.8, 12.6, 10.2,
9.4 and 15.6 p.c. back to 1925, when wool
averaged over £35 per bale. Until re-
cently, it had been a steady 7 p.c. 1 proposi-
tion since the public became interested in
1913.
Chief danger now lies in the possibility of
clients being unable to meet their com-
mitments. To make advances with a book
value £153,679 in excess of shareholders’ net
tangible funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), and carry £171,124 of other assets
besides, the co. has, of course, leant heavily
on outsiders;—
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital . . 150,000 200,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Liabilities 88,618 161,401 320,740 362,088 324,803
Property and
plant . . 87,002 105,295 158,350 159,472 151,917
Stock .. 3,309 10,620 10,568 8,755 16,431
Book debts 137,357 260,375 488,584 521,486 468,751
Cash, etc. 3,923 5,485 3,409 2,045 2,776
Last year advances were reduced by £52,735,
but only £37,285 net was knocked off the
debt, of which £238,566 was coming to the
bank and £80,237 to sundry creditors at
June 30. The more or less liquid surplus
(£1.63,155, including stocks) was £7043
lighter than at the close of accounts in 1930.
As for the current term, the seasonal out-
look was never better, but the unsettled state
of Europe leaves wool prices in the lap of the
gods. Thus far the average (6-|d. per lb.) is
about 2d. below last year’s figure. The
market notes this, the slender prop for* capi-
tal and the size of the debt, which may stand
in the way of divs. for a while, and pays
only 10s. for the 20s. shares.
Port Jackson Investment and Insurance
t —Dividends—rt To-'
Pref. Ordinary wards
June, Surplus. 6 p.c. - 6 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
£ ,£ £ £ £
1922.. 11,572 8,448 360 2764 8,965
1923.. 15,405 8,448 360 6597 2,368
• ' Reserves.
1924.. 14,560 8,448 • 360 5752 3,384
1925.. 14,881 8,448 360 6078 9,457
1926.. 15,977 8,448 360 7169 16,626
1927.. 15,940 8,448 360 7132 23,758
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1928.. 17,724 11,265 480 5979 29,737
1929.. 16,198 11,265 480 4453 34,190
1930.. 18,010 11,265 480 6265 40,455
10 p.c. 10 p.c. '
1931. . 16,449 14,081 600 1768 42,223
Pref. shareholders are asked to. surrender
their scrip in exchange for Government secu-
rities at face value, fractional holdings to be
adjusted in cash. The proposal, however,
is not to be put into effect unless holders
of a majority of the shares agree thereto
by Dec. 31.
The co. is an offshoot of the Port Jackson
and Manly Steamship Co.; it was thrown
off as a separate concern in the reconstruc-
tion of 1.920 to carry the parent’s insurance
risks. Paid capital is £146,808 in 140.808
6 p.c. cum. particip. prefs. and 6000 ords. The
ords. are held by the parent; the prefs.
were scattered, one for two, as gift scrip
amongst those on the old co.’s register, and
are entitled to priority as to capital in a
wind-up, but do not share in surplus assets.
The business was profitable, as the table
shows; an assured income and moderate
claims enabled reserves to be gradually accu-
mulated, and last year an all-round 10, p.c.
div. (£14,681) was paid from profits of
£16,449, of which £6OOl came from under-
writing and £10,448 from investments.
But the parent, in order to reduce its
overhead, has now placed its insurance busi-
ness elsewhere, at rates which it would be
unwise for the pup to accept, owing to its
inability to spread the risk-—it is not one
of the associated offices. So the infant is
left with its investments as its only source
of income. At June 30 the assets comprised
Government securities and a trifle of loans.
£191,365 (apparently at cost) ; cash and
accrued interest, £2973; freeholds. £3501.
Allowing for reduction of interest under
the National Debt Conversion, taxation, etc.,
net earnings would be insufficient to give
the prefs. 4 pic., the chairman says. Con-
ditions are unfavorable for the development
of new business; so, in the circumstances,
the obvious thing to do is to sell the assets
and wind up the Undertaking. Discounting
Government securities and loans by 20 p.c.,
and leaving the freehold out of the reckoning
altogether, there would be sufficient to return
the pref. capital in cash, and then leave
£15,257 (= £2 10s. lOd. per share) to be
divided up amongst the ords. —they could see
a further 11s. Sd. per share in the book value
of the freehold.
Under the board’s proposal as it now
stands, and on the basis of present market
prices for Government paper, the prefs.
would suffer an immediate loss of about £2O
per cent, of their capital. Hence 16s. is
offered for the scrip on the market, but
sellers stand off at 21s.
George Farmer, Ltd.
<• Dividends. ~
-Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ . c e v
June, ~ 33,93 S
1921.. 17,228 4800 10 p.c. = 6,000 6,428 24,525
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 „ „ 9,000 7,344 17,181
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 „ ~15,000 9,875 7,306
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 ~ ~12,000 3,346 3,960
Reseives.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 „ ~12,000 11.049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 .. .. 27,089
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised. £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25.414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 ~,,14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 ~,,12,600 543 14,564
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 ~ „ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,961 4SOO 10 „ „ 9,000 1,161 17,381
There was a sharp drop in turnover, but
the price of heavy backfatters (now around
£7 10s.) eased about 66 p.c., so the board
was able to show £3022 more gross profit
(£36,565) than it did in the previous term.
But exes. (£21,604, including a heavier load
of taxes) took all the increase and £495
besides. Still, after attending to the pref.
requirements, there was enough to show 11.3
oh the ord. capital as against 11.8, 14.6.
18.3 and 22.9 p.c. back to 1927; and since
finances are comfortable the 10 p.c. div. was
repeated, making an average of 13.6 p.c. over
the last five years. But conditions have
changed vastly in that time. Competition
and price-cutting have narrowed the margin
of profit and helped to keep overhead up:
hence the steepness of the decline in the
profit figures and the recession in the div.
rate. Now that turnover, too, is contracting,
much will depend upon the extent to which
overhead can be curbed, upon the price of
pigs and the demand for the co.’s product.
For some years .after the co. took over
George Farmer’s ham-and-bacon business in
1919 the ords. were on the pig’s back. Two
10 p.c. divs. were followed by one of 15 p.c..
another of 25 p.c. and three of 20 p.c. to the
close of accounts in 1926. Then the fatness
was larded with £30,000 of bonus scrip,
which makes a 10 p.c. div. now worth 15
p.c. to old holders.
Last year’s lighter trading and the healthy
condition of the co.’s finances show up in
this fiext comparison of balance-sheet figures :
1922. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £120,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 1,838 6,829 2,591 .1,717
Premises .. 16,105 50,248 49,195 47,965
Plant; etc. . . 15,386 30,875 29,753 32,061
Stocks .. 23,928 40,767 31,181 16,557
Book debts .. 29,416 86,609 36,739 27,521
Cash, invest- ',
ments, etc. 31,470 22,694 31,593 55,494
There was a reduction of £14,624 in the
stocks item, and of £9218 in debtors
balances. The money thus made available
was placed on fixed deposit (£30,000), which
increased by £24,000: investments comprise
£ll,OOO of Government securities, in at cost.
Including stocks, the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£97,855) was
£933.
On the market the ords. fetch 235. 6d. as
against 255. a year ago. At the lower figure
the return is 8.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis:
the backing is 235. lOd. in net tangibles,
mainly plant, worth what it can earn. The
prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.
and have priority as to capital, return 6.9
p.c. at 235. They are covered by 555. 9d.
in net tangibles, and last year’s profit was
over three times their annual requirements.
William Adams and Co.
, Dividends Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Apl., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 28,919 1750 10 p.c. = 22,194 2203 9,370
1922.. 2,598 1750 24 „ „ 5,598 3350 1,270
Loss. 3-1 p.c. Deficit.
1923.. 47,406 875 Nil Nil 47,011
Capital written off, £45,000.. .. 2,011
Profits. 7 p.c. Reserves.
1924.. 6,287 1750 Nil ) , r -.
Arrears of pref.'divs., £875.. .. j ’
1925.. 6,181 1750 21 p.c. = 4,500 1,582
1926.. 14.411 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 5,248
1927.. 17,562 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 12,055
1928.-. 6,962 1750 24 „ „ 4,500 12,767
Surplus on property sale, £1022 . . 13,789
1929.. 14,767 1750 5 p.c. = 9,000 17,806
1930.. 15,940 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 22,996
Loss. 31 p.c.
1931.. 15,772 875 Nil ■— - 6,349
The management of this Sydney _ engi-
neering and agency business, which is
spread all over the Commonwealth, put
the axe into exes, last year, reducing
them by 26 p.c. But turnover contracted s 0
sharply that a loss of £15,772 showed up;
hence the prefs.—there are 25,000 of them
in a capital of £205,000— got only half a
meal. Further savings of 15 p.c. have been
planned, and sales have been fair the las:
(Continued on page 16.)


111,
/, rtfifm
%((!/
xfs Hi,
u
ffl
m
r m
m
: fj.
m
czrr* a
-=*=:;s*? 9
m
w
m
m
■
1
If*
H%B
Mi
m
m.k
ills
\w
m
Ji
iin
mini*
m
m
Si a
in
[UB
h i inn
■
h\
111
iliiii
iliiiiliil
iilllUIi!
V
iiiiisll
Bn
§ all S =555: 55
I m
m
m
r',vy
ivSSK
'
ws
.
1
y// /'/////;
8.G.7M.2*.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc,.
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR SEPTEMBER NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/C.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adv't.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent-
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The great saving effected in pipe-line construction
by the specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe is not
solely due to the fact that its first cost is so much
less. Handling costs, laying and maintenance arc
all on a similar low level —so that all-round econo-
mies are gained. The service rendered by this
modern conduit is of the highest standard of effi-
ciency. Write for interesting literature, post free,
to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Rav
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
Ihe Stanuarct c ) Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-uaa
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital ar.d Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients' interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass't Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
few months; _ yet profits are not likely to
reappear during the current term. That
is mainly because the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment insists on 48 hours'’ pay for 44 hours’
work, and on maintaining a higher basic
wage than in the other States, thus handi-
capping manufacturers in competition with
rivals outside.
Chief danger to this and other cos. lies in
the possibility of their working capital being
gradually consumed. Here is the co.'s posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures show it:—
1924. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £205,000 £205,000 £205,000 £205,000
Liabilities .. 232,338 265,599 225,589 147,444
Freeholds .. 90.252 106,357 102,655 103,476
Plant, etc. .. 24,337 25,744 25,325 22,455
Stocks 150,214 173,669 170,557 139,674
Book debts .. 152,340 172,420 151.645 85,479
Cash, shares, etc. 24,471 9,839 8,779 7,710
Last year debtors’ balances and stocks, both
very troublesome items these days, were Avorked
down £66,166 and £30,883 respectively, and
£20,267 Avas clipped off the overdraft
(£95,525) and £57,878 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£51,919). The more
or less liquid surplus (£85,419, including
stocks) slipped £19,973. Much denends upon
the figure at Avhich stocks have been taken
into account, the efficiency of the plant and
Avhether the alloAvance for depreciation, etc.,
proves to be adequate.
For nearly a decade the co. has been
struggling against high costs and competi-
tion from cheap-labor countries, and has been
increasingly obliged to turn to overseas
agencies to help it out. The ords. have aver-
aged only 2.7 p.c. since 1921. They are
offered at ss. on the market. The prefs.
have not come out of their shell for some
months.
The Mystery of the Britannia Bank
The most surprising thing that happened
in Sydney last week was the registration of
the Britannia Bank, Ltd., with a nominal
capital of £100,000,000. The Britannia
insurance Corp. (nominal, £12,000,000),
Britannia Trust, Ltd. (£10,000), Imperial
Investment Trust Ltd. (£5000) and Im-
perial Sugar Industries, Ltd. (nominal,
£500,000) were also recently hatched out of
the same incubator. All these cos., the
"Wild Cat” is informed, are to work in co-
operation, the directorates being interlocked
-—except as to the Sugar Co. the directors’
names have not yet been disclosed It is claimed
that the whole scheme is backed by a British
financial group (identity undisclosed) ; the
declared aim being to cement inter-Empire
trade relations and to develop Empire indus-
tries. The representative of the group noAV
in Sydney is Mr. P. J. Mond.
Subscribed capital of the bank is shown at
£17,029,420 in £lO shares, issued at a pre-
mium of £5. Paid capital is £7,529,420;
reserves, £5,492,945 (share premiums) ; fixed
deposits, £7,562.521. Assets comprise
Government securities (British), etc.,
£10,811,040; advances, £623.846; invest-
ments, £9,150,000. The investments are
mainly shares in the insurance co. Opera-
tions are to be conducted throughout the
Empire, and interest is to be paid on current
accounts. Portion of the bank's scrip is to
be offered locally, at the premium already
mentioned. But since shares in all the old-
and solidly-established associated banks here
can be had on the market at less than
net book value the promoters may have
difficulty in coaxing capital. An earlv pro-
blem will be to develop a sufficient volume
of sound business to support the capital
already paid. E. 11. Waddy, who looked
after the Orange branch of the Common-
wealth Bank, is to be general manager.
The insurance co.’s subscribed canital is
£8,114,050 in £lO shares, put out at £5 pre-
mium. Paid capital, £7,114,050; reserve,
£3.448,471. Fixed deposits figure at
£7,562,521; investments (mainly the bank's
shares), £3,000,000. The co. is to write all
classes of business, including life; it will
largely depend upon other members of the
group for its premiums. The trust co. has
been given the job of looking after the
interests of those to Avhom the Sugar Co. sells
its bonds. Other cos. in the groun are to be
geared into the machine when it gets going.
All share capital thus far subscribed is said
to have been put up in London. The Sydney
auditor to the bank (J. M. Wilcox, F.A.A.,
Stanton House) says he has inspected the
securities, which are held in trust by the
chairman-elect.
Imperial Sugar Co.
This is a bond-selling co., which has de-
vised a scheme “for the production of sugar
on a basis never before attempted by any one
organisation.” It is a new and much enlarged
edition of Papuan Rural Products, formed
earlier this year to raise £1,200,000 in £3O
bonds for the purpose of producing sugar in
Papua. The co. now offers 130,000 £3O
bonds; British investors, the prospectus says,
have taken half the issue, and the Australian
public is offered the other half. The lot has
been underwritten at 21 p.c. by the Britannia
Bank. Brokerage is fixed at 5 p.c.
Britain now imports about 1| million tons
of sugar annually from foreign countries;
this the co. aims to ultimately displace.
Papua grows sugar prolifically: there is
a British preference of £4 ss. lOd. a ton,
native labor is cheap, and the land is acquired
on 99 years’ lease at 3d. an acre a year for
the first 20 years. Provided the co.’s scheme
is fully carried out, 250,000 acres will ulti-
mately be planted, estimated to produce a
million tons of sugar annually, and involving
a capital outlay of £15,000,000.
To start with 65,000 acres are to be
planted, 20,000 acres of which have already
been secured at Wanigela, near Colling-
wood Bay. Estimated capital outlay includes
mills, £2,702,500; tramways, etc., £507,000:
clearing, planting, etc., £250,000; wharf and
loading plant, £110,000: brokerage and under-
writing, £292.500; sundries, £3B 000. Revenue
(£2,600 000) is based on the raw sugar bring-
ging £lO a ton and an annual yield of
260,000 tons. Costs, including wages, milling,
depreciation, etc., are taken in at x 4 a ton, or
£1.040,000. Thus the prospectus figures a
profit of £1.560,000, equal to 40 p.c. on
£3,900,000 of bond capital.
The bonds bear interest at 6 p.c. until
the first harvest, such interest to be re-
covered by the co. out of subsequent revenue.
Payment of the interest is guaranteed by the
Britannia Insurance Corp., which also guar-
antees bondholders against loss of capital
for seven years. The cost of this insurance
is borne by the underwriters.
After two years bondholders will be given
the right to dismiss their agent (the co.)
and take over the management. Mean-
time they are entitled to first call on the
profits up to 12J p.c., then shareholders
receive 12J p.c. and the balance is shared
rateably. Share capital of the co. is not to
exceed £500,000 in respect of this series of
bonds, and the co. undertakes to fulfil the
terms of the prospectus. The success of
the proposition will largely depend on the
suitability of the native labor and the selec-
tion of the right land and the right manage-
ment.
All expenditure made by the co. as agent
for the bondholders will be a charge against
earnings, of course. The terms of the bond
provide that the co. shall be entitled to make
the following deductions: “From gross profits
in any accounting period a sufficient sum, to
be agreed to by the trustee and the co., to
cover the costs of the succeeding year’s
administration and management.”
On the board are P. J. Mond (chairman) ;
W. Cunningham and Dr. G. Hunter, both of
Sydney; Dr. L. J. Thompson, Auckland; P.
Warford-Mein, Melbourne; Seymour H.
Warner, chairman of Mulgrave mill, Cairns.
Disney G. McGown will be field manager.
The Murdoch process of leaching copper
ores is to be given a trial shortly. The
Queensland Government has advanced Clon-
eurry Copper, Ltd., £3OOO towards the £7OOO
plant which the co. is putting up. The ore,
estimated to average 5 p.c. copper, will be
taken from the old Vulcan mine, dry crushed
to Jin. or Jin. mesh, and then leached with a
lime, sulphur and salt solution, the copper
being precipitated by the addition of milk
of lime. Only oxidised ores and carbonates
will be treated. The prospectus put all-in
costs at £39 per ton; standard spot price
of the metal is now around £3O 15s.
* * * *
Victoria’s gold yield for July was 3018 oz.
fine, valued at £12,822 sterling, and would
have been better but for heavy rains. The
total return for the seven months ended
July 31 was 22,5990 z. fine, valued at £96.000
sterling. This was £39.507 better than for
the corresponding period of 1930. . It is
estimated that from 8000 to 10,000 men are
now prospecting and fossicking in Vic., apart
from syndicates and registered companies.
* * * *
One difficulty is being heaped upon another
at Wiluna (W.A.). Though the trouble
with the power plant (it is unable to carry
the load at peak periods) is becoming less,
it is now found that the grinding section is
unable to cope with a monthly output of
40,000 tons. To deal Avith a parcel of this
size additional tube mills and power equip-
ment are required ; hence treatment is to be
limited to 30.000 tons per month. The
irregular running: of the engines has
affected the flotation section, too; but satis-
factory results are claimed for periods of
continuous operation here. Further, recent
stoping operations suggest that the grade of
ore to be treated in the future may be lower
than was expected. Carl Lindberg, a member
of the American advisory committee of New
Consolidated Goldfields, who confirmed official
estimates in March last, is to make further
and exhaustive reports on the whole position.
Ratrut Basin, which recently raised a bit
extra on a debenture reconstruction to
finance the use of explosives for breaking
the hard ground that held up dredging since
the plant set in at Siehon, has fired 24
bores, loosening 11,000 c.y. Easier digging
followed, but the dredge bottomed in only
a few places, the slack of the buckets stlil
dragging on undisturbed boulders. Four
hand-bores are in operation, and more ground
is being loosened than the No. 2 dredge, the
only one in use, can deal with, working 12
hours daily. The result of the blasting ex-
periment is expected to be definitely settled
by the end of this month.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
, (1) I have £4OO in the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Bank. Chance of getting it back?
(2) How long before matters are finalised ?
—5751.
(1) If it is a deposit you should get 20s.
in the £. If in shares you will probably
be called upon to pay more. (2) Liquida-
tion, if proceeded with, will be slow; but
two-thirds of the liabilities should be paid
off within, say, two years. The balance of
the assets may then be sold in a lump and
the proceeds divided.
From the viewpoint of the pref. share-
holders, of whom l am one, what is the posi-
tion of Australian Iron and Steel? —s6o6.
Of course the immediate future is not
bright; but it would have to be very gloomy
to justify sale at about Bs. 9d. Shares are
71- p.c. cum. pref., with pref. rights also as
to capital. Co. earned its pref. div. in 1930,
and (showing what its possibilities are in
good times) nearly three times that much
in 1929. Its liabilities are pretty solid (share
capital, £3,253,007; creditors, £678,768) ; but
the share interests are very well held, so
the concern is not likely to be allowed, to
pass to the creditors for want of a few thou-
sands more capital at any time.
I am at my wits’ ends to know where and
how to invest the little I have saved. Why
are pref. shares and debentures in so little
favor just now? —5854.
So long as there is fear of further inflation
prefs. will be in disfavor, because nearly all
of them have a fixed rate of div., and infla-
tion might make them practically valueless.
On the other hand the rate of div. payable
by ords. could move up to more or less keep
pace with the inflation. Also pref. capital
is in many instances repayable; which means
that under inflation it could be paid off in
inflated currency—the way in which Germany
got rid of its internal debt. Debentures are
generally in disfavor for the same reason.
In certain cases, of course, there are special
reasons for weakness, chiefly the existence
of a large debenture or other debt, which is
liable to cause reconstruction or liquidation.
(1) When buying shares cum dividend,
who is responsible to the buyer for payment
of same? (2) What are the rules of the
Stock Exchange relative to dividends due on
shares purchased? (3) Would a buyer be
justified in deducting the dividends due on
shares purchased previous to due date from
paymenis made to the buying broker? —s292.
(1) The seller, if he fails to give delivery
prior to the closing of the co.’s books for
the purposes of transfer. Broadly the buyer
is entitled to all rights (and liabilities),
including dividends accrued or declared but
not paid, at date of purchase. In practice
buying and selling brokers usually make the
necessary adjustment between themselves on
behalf of their clients, but neither broker is
legally responsible for collection of the div.
(2) Shares are dealt in cum div. up to and
including the day before the div. is paid;
thereafter ex div. (3) No.
(1) Any crystal gypsum suitable for mak-
ing plaster of Paris in or near Forbes
( N.S.W .)? (2) Is there a N.S.W. map
showing gypsum deposits? —s433.
(1) No deposits of gypsum are known
nearer than between Trida and Beilpargerie,
on the Condobolin-Broken Hill railway.
These deposits consist chiefly of gypsite or
earthy gypsum; the best grades are suitable
for use in the manufacture of plaster of
Paris (except possibly dental plaster). (2)
Report on “Gypsum Deposits of N. S. Wales”
containing maps, descriptions of deposits,
analyses, uses, etc., may be obtained from
Mines Department, Sydney; 2s. 6d.. plus 2d.
postage. , , .
(1) How many banks arc there doing
business in Australia? (2) Their combined
assets? (3) Volume of their cash transac-
tions? (4) Combined profits? (5) Average
dividends ? —5652.
(1) At the end of the June quarter, 11
associated Australian (including Common-
wealth), one New Zealand, seven Australian
banks outside the association (Ballarat, three
Brisbane building banks, Primary Producers.
Rural of N.S.W., State Bank of S.A.), one
French, one Japanese. (2) Combined assets
of the 12 associated banks in Australia,
£386,828 236. (3) Unknown. (4) and (5)
Last reported year’s profit of 10 banks,
excluding Commonwealth and 8.N.Z,, with
divs.: —:
Av. for
Last Last Three
Profits. Divs. Years.
Australasia .. .. £615,084 13 p.c. 13§ p.c.
A.B.C 84,904 4 ~ 6? f
Adelaide . . .. .. 91,813 7 „ 8§ ~
Commercial of Auk. . . 308,450 111 „ 14 ~
Commercial of Svdney .. 441,816 81 ~ 91 ..
E., S. and A 532,736 121 „ 121
National . . . . . . 561,206 81- „ 91 ..
N. S. Wales . . .. 734,699 9-J „ 10* ..
Queensland National .. 142,291 61 „ 81 ~
Union of Australia .. 283,01 S 7 „ 111 ..
£3,796,017
Incidentally, a statement of'aggregate assets
may not be of any value without a statement
also of aggregate liabilities; they were
£322,480,198.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Not so Wild: The point made was that
a bank may keep an unusually large stock of coin
and legal tender and yet be fundamentally unsound
—in fact, insolvent. It is conceded, of course, that
the sound bank with the large holding of coin, etc ,
is stronger than the equally sound bank with a
small holding of coin, etc E.M.: No market in
Australia, and no opinion about them M.R.8.:
The vendor of the farm in Australia might be very
glad to take payment in M.L. money... .Bond:
Depends on what your tax-rate is. The man with a
large income gains more from holding tax-free
securities than the man with a small income....
Worried: No hope of any large G-. 5.8. payment on
date mentioned; but you might possibly get some
relief as a distressed case. Deposits may now be
transferred to creditors in payment of debts —if they
will accept them, of course... .8.E.H.: (1) It is
just as speculative and the market equally unsure.
(2) Shares not quoted on any market... .Miner: (1)
Mining Trust, Ltd., 22 Bridge-street, Sydney. (2;
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., Collins House, Little
Collins-street, Melbourne.


“MAW! MAW! MAW!”
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Inflationist Banks
Dear Bulletin, — The banks first agreed
to finance Government deficits of £12,000.000
for the coming year, and then permitted
themselves to be “touched” for a further
£3,000,000. If financing deficits is inflation,
what is the difference between the straight-
out inflationist and the banks? The former
advocates it openly and gives you a chance
to oppose it; the banks concur in it by actu-
ally providing the means and nobody gets
a say. Hitherto as a depositor I have
watched the Communists, but it seems to me
I should watch the banks, as thev are not
playing the game fairly with their depositors.
If a borrower gets “over the odds” and his
securities depreciate, the bank soon lets him
know about it and makes him reduce. I
think we ought to let the banks know in
the same way when they are so obviously
destroying the value of our deposits in their
hands.—Yours etc., Masbbo.
Penalise the Thrifty!
Dear Bulletin, —I am the wife of the
part-owner of a small station in North
Queensland. For years my husband and I
have lived quietly, saving every penny we
could. I have dressed in cottons when my
cooks have been clothed in silk. One cook
told me she never paid less than a guinea
for her stockings. The cowboys bought
working clothes of a quality that my hus-
band considered good enough for best. This
standard applied to all classes of workers—
on stations and in the small towns. Now,
to keep these same people, all our poor sav-
ings are being taxed out of existence, just
when we are faced with the education of
our children on a much reduced income. Mine
is not a singular case by any means, and we
poor simpletons are feeling very bitter. I
have learnt one lesson. I shall teach my
children to spend their earnings, and at least
have that pleasure. I cannot think this is
good for any nation; but why should one be
thrifty for the sake of the thriftless? —Yours,
Seething Sue.
Suspension of Awards
Dear Bulletin, —The most persistent
panacea for our national ills is “We must
do away with arbitration and awards.” Sus-
P™ all awards and you hand to the so-
called representatives of the employer the
power to say, “We’ll pay you so much—take
it or leave it.” And justice won’t be served
that way. I offer a case in proof. When
the wool slump threatened 18 months ago the
Rural Industries Amendment Act (1929)
wiped several unions off the Statute Book.
But only N.S.W. State awards were affected ;
a I ederal award still operated. In the shear-
ing industry the staffs (classers, overseers
and experts) offered to take a 12$ per cent,
reduction. The Employers’ Council—the men
to whom matters would be left if awards
were lifted—ignored the offer, and notified
their members to pay on a scale ranging
from 10 per cent, to 60 per cent. less. This
season there was a further all-round dedue-
tmn of 10 per cent., bringing the maximum
cut to 10 per cent.! The men thus affected
have to work wholly in the interests of the
employer, while the men they control—the
shearers .and..shedliands, working under a
r ederar award—have suffered' one cut of 10
per cent, during the same period. In the
case quoted, to give the Devil his due, the
legislation responsible was not Lang’s.—
Yours, W. Bogeye.
A Farm Experiment
Dear Bulletin, —Let politicians study the
income-tax returns of primary producers and
they will soon be able to put their finger
on the spot. As an illustration let me draw
attention to the Tasmanian Scottsdale, Dis-
trict School Farm, whose history of two
years has revealed the hopelessness of the
position of the man on the land and the
dire necessity for a drastic cut in costs. The
history of the above school reads something
like this. Two years ago a number of enter-
prising citizens decided to approach the
Government and request it to make available
a closdr-settlement farm, which was granted
for the nominal sum of £5O per year rent,
the farm being valued at £lOOO. A board of
management set out with the object of mak-
ing the farm self-supporting and educational,
Certainly it has proved educational, for after
the Government had made available £l3OO and
the board had received roughly £2OO from
well-wishers, etc., with a turnover of £1059,
and paying an overseer £lBO per annum,
they had a credit balance of £1 16s. Bd. after
two years of solid graft. The board paid
no interest on money advanced. While the
man on the land has to sell his product on
the open markets of the world and buy on a
protected market, it is impossible for pri-
mary producers to make ends meet, with the
result that unemployment is prevalent. The
sooner politicians and others commence to
“let up” .on the man on the land the more
rapidly will Australia return to prosperity.
—Yours, Zillonah.
Retrenched Clerks
Dear B.,—This depression has exposed
another defect in our so-called arbitration
system, and many of those out of work can
thank it for their disaster. As a bank employee
I know hundreds who have sheltered behind
the awards; and naturally they are as a
rule the men who have been retrenched.
Those who have not loafed on the awards,
but have studied and tried hard to improve
their position, have ‘ just as naturally been
retained. Unfortunately it hasn’t always
been the trier who has been kept: sometimes
the trier is quite unfitted for the job. Between
these two —the triers who are unfit and the
non-triers who might fit—every large service
has had, I should judge, at least 33. per cent,
of officers who have been passengers and are
far better out of the service. That is not the
least Valuable of the things the depression
is going to do for us—it will take many
square pegs out of round holes. It is ridi-
culous for most of these men to hang about
expecting to get their old jobs back. Their
old jobs don’t want them. This makes more
urgent some scheme by which men may pro-
duce at least enough to keep themselves; and
a patch of land somewhere is their best hope.
-r-Yours, Accountant.
The Tyranny of Union Bosses, Etc.
Dear B,,—“Quack” (8.12/8/’3l) saw
only one side of the two incidents cited, when
union bosses overruled Government officials.
In case No. 2 a carpenter, is. given a job,
hut because lie .is not a member of the union
he is prevented from starting. If “Quack”
had gone farther he would have seen a
financial member started. Apart from the
fact that we have preference to unionists, the
principle] is correct. Why should John Wil-
liams be given a job, and a man who has
paid his union dues, and no doubt has been
just as long out of work, passed over? The
present union bosses may be “crook,” but the
union has given us decent working condi-
tions,. which should be enjoyed only by
members. No doubt “Quack” belongs to the
B.M.A. and may be horrified to be called
a unionist, bossed by narrow-minded officials.
Yet cases are common where members of
his union have refused to confer with non-
members on serious cases of illness, which
owing to “high principles” have resulted in
death. Undoubtedly “Quack” will applaud,
too. the High Court Judges who refused t.;
sacrifice some of their pay because of “high
principles”; which are, when it is all said
and done, only the labor idea of wage reduc-
tion. “Quack” may love his B.M.A. and
Judges their constitution; but let the union-
ist try similar methods to improve himself,
and he immediately becomes a “red ragger.”
—Yours, John McD.
Union Leeches
Dear Bulletin, —To those interesting
examples in “Quack’s” contribution (B.
!2/8/’3l) concerning the crushing power of
“union parasites,” add these examples of
"union leeches,” which illustrate the high
cost of working, and the reason why so many
workers prefer the dole. Example I: A
timber-worker, idle for two months at the
beginning of the year and rationed from
then, has so far this year paid £2 in union
fees, and since has been summoned for £4 due
this year. Therefore, through working, he owed
his union £6. and his worry is that the year
is not through yet. Example II: An engine-
driver, who has this year paid £3 in union
dues, is now alleged to be £ll behind in
payments on his license to work. And there
is no moratorium to prevent the union from
securing payment—it’s “pay or lose your
job.” In all other walks of life it would
be punishable blackmail. Meantime wives
and children must go short. —Yours etc.,
Sand Plain (N.S.W.).
Forced Labor Looming
Dear Bulletin, — Armies of workless
people can be supported by Governments
only for a limited period, and both Britain
and Australia are very near that limit. The
next step, logically, must be to devise some
means of making the workless support them-
selves, and the only machinery which offers
itself for that purpose while credit for
private enterprises lies dormant is that of
the State, so that State labor camps must
occupy fields and people factories, precisely
after the pattern of Stalin’s Russia. Pro-
bably the British and other turbulent races
won’t stand the new arrangement very long,
and will slide back to the competitive life.
But it seems to me clear that most nations
will have to pass through the State-enforced
labor segment of the political circle if the
world cannot solve certain elemental but
very knotty problems associated with credit
and currency.—Yours etc., Blum.
Sales and the Sales Tax
Dear Bulletin, —The sales tax, as well
as aiding the Government, can put a little
in the pocket of the big fellow. My mer-
chant charged me 2d. tax on an article eost-
ing 2s. If nine other buyers are treated
similarly, he nets Is. Bd. tax. He pays the
Government Is. tax. Where does the
extra go? The limit came when on a
purely labor job I was charged 2s. and 2d.
sales tax. I protested; but the resulting
unpleasantness made me aware that it would
be wiser in future to “lie low and say nuffin.’ -
How many readers are in similar case?—
Yours etc., Brer Rabbit (Tas.).
The Wage-earner’s Share
Dear Bulletin, — I happen to know a
doctor, and was working for his father while
the son was studying to take his degree.
A doctor’s training absorbs six years of his
life before he is able to make a penny; not
only that, but he must have money for
clothes, equipment and university fees, etc.
Well, this man’s father, a timber miller and
merchant, was able to provide all this for
him and two brothers and a car apiece in
addition. He employed at the bush end of
the business between 50 and 70 men, and
the highest wage paid was £7 per week, the
average £5. Could the highest-paid man have
put an only son through a similar course?
I worked on the original bush plant; the
business continued to expand until it trebled
its output. I, working along with the others,
had a definite hand in its expansion. But,
as I realise now, we worked solely for what-
ever was considered to be a living wage.
Immediately the mill ceased to be profitable
it was closed down and my interest in it
ceased, and my means of livelihood too. The
owner might realise on the plant and machin-
ery, but the worker under whose hand it
grew, and who learned to handle each new
gadget that expansion provided, became an
interloper immediately the wheels ceased to
revolve. I have been entirely on the dole
this last 18 months, during which time I
have travelled far and thought much. The
logic of enforced destitution teaches me that
the average boss is not in business for the
sake of the business, but for what can be
got out of it; he is out of it as soon as
there is nothing to be got, and that too
with no disposition to trouble himself as
to the fate of his erstwhile wage-partners.
If no part of a concern’s profit can be
diverted for the insurance of a dead-end
wage-earner against total loss of employ-
ment, then he is completely at the mercy of
the law of supply and demand, and the law
of supply and demand is the law of the
jungle.—Yours sincerely, Elby.
Living Areas
Dear Bulletin, —If there is such a thing
as a living area in a farm or pastoral hold-
ing there must also be a living area in a
butcher’s shop and a grocer’s store. We
may advertise that our business has 5, 10 or
50 departments under one roof without fear
of compulsory resumption and subdivision;
but industries in which the land is used must
be subdivided into living areas. Why?
Again, should a magnate arrive with the
avowed intention of investing a couple of
millions in the doll's-eye industry, the band
will play and the red carpet be laid. But
let him change his mind, let him start a
cattle or sheep station or an agricultural
development scheme, and how will he fare?
The exploiter of the country, the land-
grabber, the menace to our liberty, the beef
baron—why, he ought to be shot on sight!
In all honesty, what difference is there be-
tween developing rural and city industry?—
Yours sincerely, I Wonder.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Yeomen of'the Guard”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Hay Fever”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNf, WEEK.
Royal .. “Dearest Enemy”
Comedy “My Lady’s Dress”
State Movies and Talkies
• ~
The Melbourne Office, Flapper records a
Great Discovery;—
Well, the Musical Critic took me to a
Dawson-Hambourg t concert at the Town
Hall. Well, I thought they were both splen-
did. The place was packed and the. audi-
ence was most enthusiastic./ But the more
enthusiastic the audience got the more the
Musical Critic got gloomier and gloomier.
Finally I said, what’s biting you? He said,
this is my sixth concert and i four more
scheduled concerts stretch before me, not
to mention an indefinite number of positively
last concerts. Just glance around you, lie
said, at my yawning colleagues of the dailies.
Yawning colleagues of the dailies."
Observe their haggard faces, betokening their
intense inward anguish. Like me they are
all wondering where their next adjective is
to come from. We all wore out our. voca-
bularies long ago.
Well, I understood then. I mean, all a
girl has to' do after a concert is to dream
about Mr. Dawson and Mr. Hambourg; but
a critic has to write about tlietn. Well, after
the show I introduced the M.C. to Mr.
Smmith, quite by accident, and that’s where
the Great Discovery comes in. Mr. Smmith
is a young physicist, if you know what I
mean and care to pronounce it, up at the
University. Well, the M.C. unburdened him-
self to Mr. Smmith, and for a man with
his poker face Mr. Smmith got quite excited,
lie looked at the M.C. for a long time and
then he said, what do you regard as the most
important part of Mr. Ilambourg’s anatomy?
The hands, of course, said the Musical C.
promptly. Every critic talks about his
hands. Wonderful hands, like Rodin’s.
Well, said Mr. Smmith, next time look at
his nostrils. Observe how sensitive they are!
They are the outward and visible signs of
what Footseray would call a good smeller.
Seek there for the key to Mr. Hambourg’s
genius. Well, the M.C. looked completely
blithered.
Well, then we went across the road for
a cupper, and suddenly Mr. Smmith pulled
out: a piece of paper and slammed it down.
This is what was on it: — ■ -
O .. . . Boronia
0 sharp .. Little boy smell
D .. .-. Mothballs
D sharp .. Sun on a fresh manure heap
E .. .. Fresh gooseberries
F .. .. Bread baking
F sharp .. Gunpowder
G .. .. The mildew of old suitcases
G sharp .. Vittosporums’ by moonlight
A .. .. .loss sticks in a Chinese■ temple■
A sharp .. Boiling- soapsuds permeating the interior
of a:savings-bank cottagei :
B .. .. Burning pine logs.
Well? said the M.C., looking puzzled. Well,
said Mr. Smmith triumphantly, don't you
see? You critics are hopelessly old-fashioned
and unscientific. You base your criticism
on the relationship between sound and color,
and as it doesn’t really exist, because the
eye grasps changes of color much more slowly
than the ear grasps changes of pitch, you
all come to contrary decisions, thus exposing
yourselves to the ridicule of readers. Now,
my smell-scale, beirig based on thei scientific
fact that the membrane of the ear is con-
nected with the membrane of the nose, is
infallible. Any sensation in the one is
equally a sensation in the other. For
example, _ what images did that Mozart
“Rondo in A minor” conjure up in your
brain? Well, to tell you the truth, said the
Musical C., the only image that kept floating
into my mind was an entirely new idea for
a Williamsonian ballet; and he sketched it
on the table. There you are, said Mr.
Smmith, exultantly, not having my key to
guide you, the most significant music merely
fills your mind with irrelevant, not to say
crazy, fancies. Now,. to me that rondo, like
ail of Mozart’s music, suggested the word
“clean!” In < other words, hygienic,eanti-
septic. What common association occurs to
the mind at those words? An operation for
appendicitis in a well-run public hospital!
What smell instantly assails the nostrils?
lodoform ! Moreover, the sense of .smell is
not only intimately associated with the sense
of hearing but writb the sense of taste. What
common associations occur to the mind at
that . same word “hygienic”? Matutinal
ablutions in the bathroom! What taste
appears instantly on the tongue? Tooth-
paste ! Thus a Mozart rondo may scienti-
fically be related to the odors of an operat-
ing theatre and the flavor of: a popular
dentifrice.
I have not worked out my taste scale
sufficiently to give it to the world yet, Mr.
Smmith proceeded. The tastes of grass ends,
gum leaves, Gregory powder, crushed grapes,
the Javanese durian, rich red port-wine,
sugar in excess, the morning after and
a thousand others assailed my palate while
I listened to the programme just concluded;
but they await exact classification. ,
Well, the Musical Critic was so excited
that he upset the J.B.W. Juice of the Bull’s
Wife all over the tablecloth. Why. Mr.
Smmith, he said, you are a public benefac-
tor ! Your discovery will transform musical
criticism ! Think of the infinite possibilities,of
extension your scales offer to us'! The same
smell may have an endless number of asso-
ciations, according to the critic’s experience.
Thus I myself, being brought up within
smelling distance of the Patawalonga, South
Australia, have to this day been unable to
distinguish between the odor of it and that
of a small boy in a state of perspiration.
C sharp could thus conjure up either image.
The smell of resinous pine logs burning and
the pleasing aromatic ; emanation from boil-
ing tar being in the smell category, the
appropriate note might legitimately summon
to the critic’s-mind visions as far apart as
a Siberian forest and a road repair in Collins-
, street. Then the sickly-sweet, all-pervading
v odor qf magnolia bloom, the warm, envelop-
ing smell of Italian cooking, the breath of
damp earth, the peculiar smell of empty, dis-
used rooms, of new, linoleum, of ships, of
rubber, and. in the abstract, the smell that
sometimes arises out of Australian Govern-
ment transactions —are these' not 'legitimate
variations of the scale, and may not a musi-
cal critic conscientiously use them? J He
paused for breath.
Whether they are or not, you’ll use them,
said Mr. Smmith grimly, as he handed in
his check at the cash desk.
* * *
Musical comedy as at present constituted
has strong claims to being the silliest form
of theatrical entertainment yet devised by
the restless mind of man. The music is
usually not worth listening to. It is. gener-
ally pinched from Mozart or Beethoven and
spoiled in the pinching. If there is too
much farce in it the romantic story becomes
a vague and incoherent irritation. If there
is too little farce the romantic story has a
tedious monopoly of the available limelight.
“Dearest Enemy,” at present in occupation
of Melbourne Royal, belongs to the latter
category. The cast includes Frith, Holland,
Kellaway and Bradley, four of the finest
exponents of farce or character comedy on
the Australian boards. When three of these
notable gentlemen debouched together on the
stage on Saturday they received an ovation,
but it was shortly discovered that the play-
wright had put them on iron rations in the
matter of fun-making. The brilliant Brad-
ley appeared in the last act as George Wash-
ington, threw off some solemn aphorisms on
the theme of patriotism, and departed. The
usually irrepressible Alfred gloomed like an
exiled Napoleon in the uniform of General
Clinton. Cecil Kellaway did his best to make
General Tryon a character study of a bibu-
lous English. Guardsman, For the rest John
Citizen got rill the nudity he will allow him-
self in the spectacle of Dot Brunton osten-
sibly clad in nothing but a barrel, though
it must be said that that vivacious actress
gave form and substance to the part of an
Irish spitfire subject to the traditional
national sentimentalism. The dressing be-
longed to the loveliest period in British sar-
torial history, and the male and female
chorus made a succession of Raeburn por-
traits, spoiled, as usual, by the bad con-
ventions of Williamsonian lighting. Romola
Hansen (acting better than ever), Herbert
Browne (singing as sweetly as ever), Sidney
Burchall (vocally ever growing more im-
pressive) and Dot Brunton provided a large
number of duets concerning the everlasting
nature of love. In these days of change
and shifting values it is gratifying to note
that musical comedy remains true to the
institution of monogamy, which in all other
forms of theatrical entertainment is being
held up to scorn ,and derision.
: *
After being “A Warm Corner” for a
fortnight, Melbourne Comedy donned “My
Lady’s Dress” on Saturday. It was possible
to enjoy the ingenious construction of the
play, even though Iris Darbyshire forced com-
parisons with Emelie Polirii which were not
derogatory to Miss Darbyshire’s predecessor.
The new lady is amateurish in-her trick .of
anxiously waiting for the other person to
discharge his vocal revolver before she fires
her pistol shots. As an exponent of old but
sound traditions of acting nobody is better
than Frank Harvey. He has nine different
stage portraits to paint and he makes a neat
job of every one of them.
Melbourne broadcasters having broken
into the play-producing business in unpre-
cedented quantities, this Showman felt
“Mr. Smmith, a
young physicist.”
it incumbent on him
- to take cognisance of
the fact. At eight
o’clock the other even-
ing he put the ’phones
on his ears arid i his
■feet on the mantel-
piece, tuned in to
• 3LO, and - proceeded
to hearken to ' “Will
Shakspeare, an’ Inven-
tion in Four Acts; by
Clemojice Dane.’”. 1 Af
10.50 he. removed the
’phones,‘forgot ffo turn
off ' the ■ battery,” - and;
yawning heavily, went
to bed in a bad temper.
His recollection- of
the evening’s enter-
tainment is that it
wasn’t. If there was
anything more boring
than the - declamation
of the lines of Queen
Elizabeth by some un-
known lady, it was
the declamation of
Shakspeare’s lines
by a gentleman
whose voice was suspiciously like Frank
Clewlow’s. The Shakspeare theme seems
to have a miraculous capacity, for turn-
ing English playwrights info sloppy moral-
ists _ and shoddy sentimentalists, with a
passion for making, Elizabethans talk like
Archibald Carlyle in' “East Lynne.” Miss
Dane uses a .bucket: of'whitewash to bring her
hero into line with contemporary morality,
and even dips the Bard’s pre-nuptially-con-
eeived baby into it. The greatest realist in
history talks about his career, blighted by
marriage to Ann Hathaway, like a Holly-
wood artist. .When Ann tells him that she
trapped him into marriage by saying
she was enciente when she wasn’t, the
platitudinous arid' self-righteous blatherskite
invented by Clemence Dane gets a good con-
science about skipping off to London; and,
having met a strolling player. Henslowe
(beautifully elocuted by that admirable actor
Robert Guthrie), off he does skin. There he
has an affair with Mary» Fitfon which
inspires ;him;-t.o ( .write “Romeo and). Julieti”
In the middle of the first performance he
gets news of the approaching birth of his
infant, and infringes A 1 Jolson’s copyright by
departing just when Queen Elizabeth is ask-
ing for him. Talking all the time like one
infected with a Hollywood sub-title virus, he
murders his best friend, Marlowe, on Mary’s
account, but good Queen Bess, who rants like
a lunatic suffering from delusions of
grandeur, forgives him. The passage in which
she crowns Will King of England is a fine
example pf reach-me-down romanticism. A
strong effort of the imagination would be
required to imagine’ a worse play about
Shakspeare. Clemence Dane can never have
met a real artist in her life. Her notion of
Shakspearean language is j comic. “Queen
Elizabeth,” she says, “is old, ojd as an oak
or a cathedral is old.”' Why not “as a lawn-
mower is old”? “You Iwho ! haye had my
lips, and more, and m0re....” is another
piece of blither. Why docs • 3LO w r aste its
time over this rubbish, which isn’t even
intelligent, much less historical, when it
hasn’t yet broadcast a tithe of v Shakspeare’s
own w’orks? ”
When Tite Bulletin last looked in on
Melb. Tiv. Mo was sitting up in the wrung
bed clad in a lady’s nightdress, and a packed
house was expressing approval of the spec-
tacle. This disposes of the <gloomy prognos-
tications of the dailies that the advent of
’the eminent comedian would empty this
respectable playhouse.
* * *
In “The Yeomen of the Guard,” Gilbert’s
principal task was to exercise his wit at the
expense of his own occupation, and his cus-
tomary light cynicism developed a flavor of
wistfulness, ‘not present in the other operas,
which spread from Jack Point to other
characters. Sullivan, it may be imagined,
welcomed siimrnrmp of sentiment;
“A good smeller.”
anyhow he built upon it lyrics of a quality
unsurpassed in the whole range of light
opera. The plot, constructed on a skeleton
of fustian melodrama, perversely refuses to
be farcical, and theme and setting conspire
to bring the piece perilously near to Sulli-
van’s official butt-—grand opera.
The presentation of “The Yeomen” by the
Firm at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Satur-
day shares the virtues and the defects of
the earlier revivals. Ivan Menzies as the
merryman and John Ralston as the assistant
tormentor carry the piece on their shoulders
so far as acting is concerned —a case of old
dogs for hard roads —and Leo Darnton’s con-
fidential method of vocalism isn’t as much
out of place when grafted on the philoso-
phical and soliloquial Colonel Fairfax as it
was in some of the other productions. Scenery
and dressifig are A 1 at Lloyd’s. The chorus
and most of the lady principals, as usual,
sing their lines in Chinese or Choctaw; what-
ever it is it isn’t English. The orchestra,
which has been getting better and better all
along, does its conductor proud.
* *
Marlowe’s “When Knights Were Bold,”
now occupying the boards at Sydney Palace,
was a successful 1 source of chuckles in pre-
war years, but it is drily mildly' amusing now.
The characters are! drawn oil bladder-and-
slapstick lines, arid’.the plot, which plunges
a twentieth-century l house-party • into the
days of-'chivalry, neglects the gorgeous possi-
bilities perceived in such an incongruity by
Mark Twain. Considering the material they
had to work, on the cast, a mixture of ex-
perienced pros.' and 'wbll-seasoned amateurs,
did well. Leonard ' Stephens,y as De Yore,
was as convincing as 1 his lines would let
him be; and he had excellent 1 support from
'George Cross (Isaacson), Reginald l Dane,
Arthur Clarke and Arundel Nixon. As Lady
Rowena, Anne- Gordon 1 was rather stiff, but
she has a good voice and presence. ‘ Other
well-known actresses 1 iri 'the show were Dulcie
Cherry. Tischa Guille . arid ’ Eva Moss.
*
“A Hundred Years Old,” by Serafin and
..Tog,quip Quintero,,, staged by that competent
group of Sydney''a’rnateurs the Players’ Club
at St. James’s .IJall, proved to be a. pleasing
trifle packed w(th smart, dialogue and shrewd
philosophy. .An ‘ accomplished cast was
mobilised by producer James Hatton. As
Papa .Rian .Edward, Gavill gave one of the
most capable, performances seen in the
amateur .show, world for a very long while.
Kenneth Fowles captured the assurance and
geniality of ITfino. Good-looking Myrna
Dickey was,inclined to play Currita a little
too lightly, but was otherwise satisfactory,
and Trixie Gore put a lot of solid -work into
the exacting rOle of J. Appleton
made a brief and aihusing- appearance as a
tipsy socialist. - -
# %
i A meritorious little show that kept its
audiences • chuckling, was Wodehouse’s
comedy ■ “Good Morning, Bill.” put on at
the Sydney Savoy (Adyar Hall that used to
be) by a little group of Repertory players
headed by Harold Watch. The cast got as
near realism as a presentation of the Wode-
house world of .Tohnnydom -would permit
them, and the settings and dressings were
adequate.
Y Y ¥
Adelaide Repertory Theatre was almost
apologetic about giving Wodehouse and lan
Hay’s “Damsel in Distress”; but as a tonic
for these troubled times the frivolous clash
of aristocracy and stage went well. It made
three- big houses .laugh. > Robert Matthews,
:wlvo is coming along- rapidly, was hero to
the highly ornamental heroine of Muriel
Marks. The heaviest score was made by
Hugh Crawford, as the sporting butler; and
by young Betty Dawson, as his niece and
rival sweep-promoter.
* * *
The last revival of the J.C.W. season at
His Majesty’s, Brisbane, was “A Cousin
from Nowhere.” The best was kept till
last. Miriam Lester as Julia Van Osten,
Don Nicol as Adrian, Charles Zoli as Joseph
Edams, Vera Spaull as Freda, and David
Graham and John Dunne as the two strang-
ers helped to make the show a success.
The Palette,
The Society of Artists, w T hich includes in
its membership most of the Australian not-
ables, stages an uneven show at the Education
Department’s Gallery, Sydney. Technical
tours dc force hang chcek-by-.jowl with
mauve-arid-blue nightmares, and flights of
genius blaze out here and there in archi-
pelagos of shameless potboilers. Among the
most solidly satisfying things are pre-
sident Sydney Ure Smith’s water-color
drawings. The style calls for faultless
draughtmanship and impeccable taste in
color, and these are supplied. The late
George Lambert is represented in various
moods. There is a pericil portrait that
positively sparkles; a “reclining nude”
with legs of flesh and arms of dough; and a
“portrait of an airman” of strong pit-
Raphaelite tendencies. Among the Longstafl
portraits that of Norman Lindsay comes
nearest to speaking. Hans Ileysen shows
several square yards of pale-pink defunct
gum-trees and tan-colored arid landscapes,
the principal merit of which is that nobody
needs to look at the signature to determine
the authorship. Elioth Gruner has been to
Maoriland and captured neatly, delicately
and beautifully the somewhat depressing
spirit of the native landscape. He is at his
superb best in a glimpse of Bondi’s sea-
swept shore, seen over the houses on a misty
winter’s morn. Even a prim suburban villa
sits in the picture like the facet of a jewel.
Blamire Young exercises the sophisticated
tricks of his repertoire on trees, cows arid un-
clad ladies, and is decorative and provocative
in equal parts. An uncontrollable love of archi-
tecture makes “Monk’s Gate” rise superior to
Blamireyourigism in spite of itself. Arthur
Streeton aims at the sun in “Classicßomance.”
a rather wooden nude with a Gainsboroughish
background. Composition is masterly. The
best-painted nude in the show is Bernard
Hall’s “Glass Bottle,” a perfectly-balanced
piece of work done with great minuteness and
fidelity and marred only by the utter impro-
bability and artificiality of the scene. M. J.
Macnally deserves a cheer for a courageous
and successful attempt to put one of the vastly
picturesque Sydney streets on paper, B. E.
Minns another for a spirited painting of the
bush enjoying springtime, and Kenneth Mac-
queen an orphan’s curse for drawing a plate of
cucumbers surmounted by blobs of icing and
calling it “Surf.”
John Rowell, who nail-polishes Nature
until the lady would hardly know herself,
was succeeded at Melbourne Fine Arts by
water-colorist Harold Herbert. Some of Her-
bert’s small studies look like single impres-
sions, but the big works would hit the eye
more pleasantly if they were divided into
three or four pictures. There are in them
many charming bits of observation, but the
subject selected usually being too large and
complex for the water-color medium the bits
are not always satisfactorily related to one
another. On the other hand, in Granville
Dunstan’s show at Newman’s Gallery there
are no charmirig bits of observation and
nothing is related to anything. However,
the way the pictures are hung removes them
from the domain of serious criticism. The
nudes look uncomfortably aware that the
spectator has to stand so close to them that
he appears to be smelling them.
“An endless number of associations."
The exhibition of international camera pic-
tures, sponsored by the Vic. Salon and housed
at the Athenaeum, is most interesting where
it least tries to be artistic. As a recorder
of visual truth the camera is a great pre-
varicator. Many of the photographers realise
this and strive to correct the libs their instru-
ments arc constantly telling. They usually
lack the knowledge of Nature which it
takes a painter a lifetime to acquire, how-
ever, and the last state of the camera-picture
is worse than the beginning. The one great
advantage the camera has over the painter
is that it can catch rapid action or fleeting
effects of atmosphere, though even here an
artist with as good a memory as Reason or
Clarice Beckett can usually beat it. Where
the photographers have understood this they
have produced some effective pictures, such as
“Receding Wave,” by R. Itana. H. Caz-
neaux’s “Sydney Harbor Bridge by Moon-
light” gives a good impression of that mas-
todon’s bulk, arrogance and expensiveness.
“Hamfat”: Edmund Duggan, who has had
a dispute with a Melbourne choirmaster, his
associate in the writing of a musical play
(“The choirmaster’s music was too dashed
mournful,” Edmund declared), is no tyro at
play-writing. Years ago he wrote “Under the
Southern Cross,” w’hich dragged in the
Eureka Stockade and the wreck of the Dun-
bar, and with Bert Bailey he put together
“The Man from Outback” and some others:
moreover he wrote many scenarios for movies
when the film-making business was brisk.
Whatever the plays may have lacked in
literary merit, they had other qualities. Ned
knew his stagecraft, and he also had a good
grip on that strange thing “the great heart
of the public.”


0
fe
ws.
/■}
&
' .
I MM
\
<L(
a
jour I/at, /
Sh'/
-> a*
TOP OF THE TREE
I Not always in the manner con-
\ veyed by this picture, but always
as far as the Hat industry is
concerned.
When you are admiring your
new FAYREFIELD, admiring
its comfort, quality and style,
just remember that it is “All
Australian,” both in material
./ v and manufacture.
Remember, too, that by purchas-
ing Australian-made goods you
are helping your country out of
its difficulties. Apart from that,
you cannot get a better hat at
such a moderate price.
NU-FELT 25/-, SUPER-FELT 30/-, PREMIER-FELT 35/-
Sole manufacturers of the “MANSARD”
Hat, the new registered design.
The Trade-mark and Quality are stamped in every
genuine FAYREFIELD.
vJ'
S’.
mi
ri ML
m
*
r
\
J&-
w
4
i
* “Always Ahead ”
SYDNEY:
United Felt Hats Pty.
Nichols Street, Surry
, Ltd:,
Hills.
MELBOURNE:
United Felt Hats Pty./ Ltd.
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford
BRISBANE:
Jolm Bell & Co,,
133 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE:
CL G. Wark,
Bower B’ldings; Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. Mills.
Central Hay Street.
Mick Simmons
'an d
A^iSlfflON
S«ALiSTS
An Unrivalled Range!
SPORTING
RIFLES
from the World's foremost
manufacturers!
No. 1-the: MAINE:
I rifle:, 22-cal., bolt action, fitted
. with’plain V: back-sight; for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel, 18in.
long, bored and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and guaranteed
| accurate; weight about 31b 22/6
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 2—T HE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT
| ACT lON RIFLE, 22-cal..
take-down, with safety bolt. For short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; 2 I in. round
barrel; weight about 3Jlb 30 *
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/~
No. 7-ST EVEN S’ Jr.
S.S. RIFLE, 22-cal., take down
system, 20in. steel barrel; open
sight; weight 2Jib 2^/0
Postage, 1/6: Other States, 2/6
No. 10— STEVENS*
“FAVORITE” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech-
block, takedown action, open front- and
sporting rear-sights; weight 4Jlb.. .52 -
Carriage Paid.
No. 11 —STEVENS* BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal., magazine holds 14
short, 12 long, or 10 long-rifle cartridges
-—mixed or separate; 22in. round barrel,
slide action, ivory bead front- and ladder
rear-sights; weight 4 -Jib 65/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 12 —WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip
stock, bolt action, ladder rear- and gold
bead front-sight; weight about
4 Jib 35/-
Fostage, 2/-1 Other States, 3/6
So. 28 - REMINGTON
aAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 12A, 22-c a 1., sol id
reech, side ejector, straight grip, 22-in.
ound barrel; handles 15 short, 12 long
r 1 1 long-rifle cartridges; adjustable
ear and open front-sights; weight
Jib *5/15 -
, Carriage Paid,
VALUE!
No. IAMERICAN
SINGLE BARREL
BREECH-LOADING
GUN, 4IOG, top lever, Sie-
men’s steel barrel, 28in. solid, case-
hardened, rebounding lock
weight about
Carriage Paid.
55/-
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Mick Simmons' Firearms and Ammunition
Expert, is at the service of Sportsmen on
any matter pertaining to Shooting.'
New Shooting Price List post free on
request.
All Letters to Box ISB, P. 0., H upmarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd
72 0 HAYMAEKBT, SYDNEY..
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.” ,
SHADOW SHOWS.
The most obvious fault about British
International's "Tell England” at Mel-
bourne Auditorium is the faulty reproduc-
tion by the new Milhaly process. Intelli-
gible' phrases float up on to the surface
of the ocean of sound like bits of handsome
wreckage from a sunken liner. The story
is conventional. It opens at an English j
public school, where the usual psycho- 1
logical ■ problem is prepared of the struggle
of the human organism, to . preserve its
identity against the demands of patriot- !
ism which require the sacrifice of the
individual in order to preserve the. commu-
nity. In the subsequent developments on
Gallipoli none of the characters become j
living human beings. They remain symbols
of the characters in Ernest Raymond’s novel.
Fay Compton is a hard and self-conscious
.symbol for tender-hearted motherhood. Carl
Harbord and Tony Bruce arc symbols for the
various patriotic virtues. The nautical
scenes had the assistance of the Royal Navy
in all its efficiency, and the landing at Gal-
lipoli is an impressive spectacle.
* * *
Warner Baxter has to do painful things
in Fox’s “Daddy Long Legs,” the new Syd-
ney Plaza show. The director hasn't spared
him one of the sickly-sentimental, bone-
headed glucosities of Jean Webster’s “Family
Herald” hero. It mightn’t be so bad if he
resembled the unsophisticated philanthropist
of the novel in appearance. However, make-
up isn’t a success on the screen, so he looks
and over-dresses like the Baxter of previous
films —a raffish man-of-the-world, who has
known about women for years. Janet Gaynor
plays Judy, the waif. She registers the
flapper’s emotions—pouting winsomeness,
innocent skipping gaiety, tempestuous grief,
virginal love—with practised skill, and they
blend with the part. So does her accent
(“Belly” for “Billy,” “kahlidge” for “col-
lege,” etc.), though she would be more allur-
ing without it. Proceedings open in the
orphanage which the elderly bachelor, with
the heart of gold supports. The children are
delightful, and Miss Gaynor works hard, with
mouth and eyes as well as hands, as a Little
Mother who changes the intimate garments
of the babies and amuses and teaches the
others. The resplendent Mr. Baxter meets
her after a rough and tumble football game;
with some boys, which shows that he doesn’t ;
worry so much about his new clothes as I
you might think. And next she is grown
up, and a graduate of the establishment to
which he • has sent her: and he loves her.,
though they haven’t communicated except by
letter since that day at the orphanage ; and
she worships the memory of the glittering
being with the Charlie Chaplin moustache
and.ravaged eyes whom she only saw for a
moment, and doesn’t know is her benefactor.
They meet, and her adoration is obvious
to the co-eds. However, Mr. Baxter, far
from suspecting the glorious trutn, decides
on no evidence whatsoever that she' is
infatuated with loutish young John Arledge,
and he with her. So he arranges to make
them happy, and remove his breaking heart
to Europe and forget. Just as the misery
in the audience is getting intolerable, and
nose-blowing is assuming the dimensions of a
nuisance, young John tells the distracted
magnate the truth—“ She loves you, sir,”
So all ends deliriously. Nonsense, of course,
but the settings are lavish and .at times j
beautiful, in accordance with Moviedom’s
policy of publishing cheap romances in de
luxe bindings, and the acting isn’t bad in its
overdone way. Sloppiness is the trouble;
it shows up on the screen like a false nose.
The other Plaza, feature, “At the Bottom
of the World,” exemplifies a conspicuous
weakness of the brains behind the talkies.
They are terrified of change. The early polar
films did well, so photographers have been
shooting ice-flows and blizzard-swept seas
and _ their inhabitants ever since. The
whaling scenes are realistic, but then realis-
iic whaling scenes are horrible. Think of
the new information the movies might be
distributing. What is hidden Timhuctoo
like, for instance? Who are its politicians?
What are its social habits and amusements?
We shall only learn from the screen when
a photographer gets there by chance, and
then the whole Hollywood-Elstree pack will
start spreading the stale news in unison. '
V ¥ *
Joan Crawford’s admirers like to see her
with that desolate look in her fine eyes
which is accompanied, as a rule, by a cynical
twist of her beautiful mouth, and followed
when the breaking-point is reached by
womanly tears. Hence “Laughing Sinners”
at Sydney Regent. When first seen .Joan is
a cabaret girl with high spirits and low
morals. She is crossed in love, meets Clark
Gable and joins the Salvation Army. De-
jected piety and slow, sweet smiles take the
place of drunken gaiety. ' Unfortunately
villains still pursue her, and notably Neil
Hamilton, the faithless lover of her old life.
He induces her to spend a night of shame
with him in a sordid hotel frequented by
hard-drinking bagmen. The realisation of
what she lias done drives her to drink next
morning, and she executes a dance of de-
fiance on a table with a muzzy crowd of
commercials looking on. All appears to be.
*ost; then Clark Gable' materialises, punches
Hamilton on the jaw, and assures her that
the fallen can rise again. The fade-out shows
them walking together in the livery of tbc
saved. Clark' Gable, whom Nature intended
for gangster and convict roles, is mis-cast
as the proselytising Salv’army officer, and
Hamilton is self-conscious as the seducer.
The bagmen are great—especially a bald-
headed drunk with an ingratiating manner
who has specialised in gunman roles in the
past- and they have the only amusing lines
m t( . e higubrious work.
“Tiger Hunting in India” (Fox) has the
sadistic appeal of “At the Bottom of
(he World,” and it has been done as
often. An elephant—said to be a rogue
. first. to fall. A rhino.’ goes 1
n< l • i. . Tbnig is alleged . against, the rhino.,’
wnich looks like an armor-plated cow as it
ambles nervously off with its satellite calf,
the tigers try to bolt, too, but have no more
chance against man’s weapons of precision
than the Antarctic whales. The tigers kill
cattle’ it ( appears, and so deserve their fate.
All the same, this qritic has seen liis
last jungle film. An hour at the abattoirs
would provide similar sensations and more
novelty.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
aueensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The ‘‘Daily Mail" is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
/_ I'
Vy/
mz
V
Reduced Costs are re-
flected by a Reduced
Tariff—but Quality and
Service are maintained
at the same world-famous
"Australia" standard.
NEW
Room
Only
RATES
Single Room ....; 10/6 per day
Double Room .. ... 20/- „ „
Single Room with private bath and toilet, 17/6 perday;
Double Room with private bath and toilet, from 30/-
per day.. Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Mmimum, 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
Telegraphic Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney".
■The
■WustraliaTEß
SYDNEY
TO MEET THE TIMES
L>
U
-*s£-
Oriental -
Melbourne* Premier Rate!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast. ,
Luxux-ious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Juru Mudi”: The
pet of the Westralian
Government steamer
Kangaroo is a pigeon.
Several months ago,
while this vessel was
at Fremantle, the bird
landed on the deck
with a broken . wing.
One of the crew doc-
tored the injury, and
when the ship went
to sea the pigeon was
still in splints. On
recovery it showed no
inclination to leave its
new-found .he me!
Since then the bird has
made several - trips be-
tween Fremantle, Java
ports and .Singapore. While the ship is at
sea it sometimes circles, around, not ventur-
ing far away; in port it is often missing
for hours, but so far has always managed to
return before sailing-time.
**- * *
“FY7”: Why blame the Mandated Terri-
tory for the “pull-up” shower bath? In out-
back Australia, .save in. favored places where
a windmill or a bore permits the piping of
water, the grateful
and comforting im-
plement o? utensil
still flourishes, a
boon and a blessing
to men, as it did a
century ago. In
times of drought
some careful people
object to it as wast-
ing water, and pre-
fer to take a com-
munity bath in a
tub, the principle of
women and children
first being usually
observed. Then
come father and the
sons and the jack-
eroos, and if these
are all just fresh
home from a long
day in the drafting
yar d s, the final
liquid is an excellent
fertiliser for the
garden. I prefer the
shower, all the same.
If the user stands in
a tub, the precious
water is conserved
and can be poured
back into the shower
for the next comer.
This is advisable,
indeed, if he is
finicky, for he can’t
see the liquid—die
can in the case of a
plunge bath.
❖ i-i
“Lapin”: Those of
us who have been
acquainted with the
politician before and
after election will
have noted how com-
pletely envirorinf§iit4
alters characteristics
in man or brute.
The rabbit is i the
latest to show sighs
of adaptation to un-
familiar circum-
stances. One pre-
conceived idea about
him lias been that
he will only burrow
in soft country, pre-
ferring to lie out if
the ground is too
hard, and this theory
has been fairly correct as far as south-
ern Australia is concerned. But the
bunny vanguard is now marching through
far-north Queensland, where sandy tracts
are few. with the result that he has been
driven to deep-sinking in stony ground, lie
is even setting up communities underground
round Cloncurry, which is one of the
stoniest bits of creation.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Hamer”: This is the yarn I heard the
rabbit-oh tell the cat-loving lady who runs
our flats: “Wooden ’ave a dawg on me mind,
lady, when I’m rabbitin’; they only scare
the bunnies. Cats is the thing; they’ve
got the intelligense. I’ve got me cats trained.
Cunning they is—my oath! A coupler my
cats go right inter the burners’- after ther
rabbits. They git an ’old ; an’ the rabbit sits
back an’ lets outer kick wiv ’is ’ind leg.
Rabbits’ ’ind legs c’n kick terrible powerful.
It sends puss outer the ’ole liker shot from
er gun; but as puss won’t let go ’is ’old the
rabbit comes out, too, right ter where I’m
waitin’ with me little bag. My oath, them
cats is cunning!” The landlady, much im-
pressed. has been retailing this story of feline
TROUBLESOME FUEL.
MICHAEL (to Patrick ): "I 'ad a funny dream las’ night, Patrick. I dreamt I wint
to Hell, an was walking down a big aisle wit’ of’ Nick. I says to him, says
I, ‘Whoy's the fires burnin’ bright on one side and dim on t’other, Nick?’ ‘Aw,’
he says, on this sides the bookies, an’ they’re burrning all right ; but the
other's the poonters — they’re too damn green to burn.'”
intelligence ever since. But T happen to
know that the rabbit-oh buys his wares at
the markets.
* * * *
“J.M.”: The Straits Chinese have strong
superstitions concerning the keng hwa plant,
a species of flower cactus which blooms at
rare intervals. They believe that the flower-
ing of the plant presages great good luck to
its owner. Recently one of these plants,
growing in the garden of an Ipoh resident,
burst into bloom, and the factl’urnished a par.
for the local newspaper. A few days later
facetious comment .was majle in an editorial
note about .the failure of the owner to in-
herit, a fortune, v But tlie very next day the
,journal had to record that the individual
in question had won' first .prize in a Kuala
Lumpur lottery—a matter of 10,000 dollars.
* * $ *
“Gelt”: Harry Darby, the Barnardo lad
who struck it lucky on the New Guinea gold-
fields, figured in the cables over the shooting
of a coolie, and then destroyed himself at
Bombay, was in charge of the Government
labor, department in Rabaul before goipg to
the,fields. It became difficulLfqr.other depart-
ments, to, obtain “boys';” 'so • the ruse was
adopted 'of impersonating the Adminis-
trator over the ’plume when, making the
requisitions, “That: you. Darby?” a clerk
,in„„the, Treasury, would snap but. “Yes,
sir.” “Administrator speaking. Send up
ten- strong .‘boys’ to the Treasury.. at, once,”
Darby tumbled to it after a white, but still
the trick was attempted until it was only
sufficient to say “Administrator speaking.”
to firing a reply hot enough to fuse the whole
telephone system. One morning Darby
answered the ’phone and heard: “Adminis-
trator speaking, Darby”—— Darby told
the voice to go to blithering blazes, and just
a little later had a chance of explaining his
difficulties on the mat. For once it was the
Administrator.
* * * *
“Mauri”: The last “tanda” from Rabaul
for China took Ah Tam, reputed to be the
wealthiest individual in the Territory. He
came to New Guinea 48 years ago at the age
of 27, a ship’s carpenter and boatbuilder,
earning the equivalent of about £4 a month.
But a shrewd trading instinct coupled with
luck and self-denial soon changed his for-
tunes, and before many years had passed
he owned town property, plantations and
ships. It is doubtful if even Ah Tam knows
the full extent of his wealth, most of it being
invested in property ans advances to his
fellow-countrymen. The sale price of his
assets (£40,000) does not represent their true
value; a few years ago Mala Plantation alone
would have brought that. On the same snip
went the remains of his wife, who died 18
years ago. Two unmarried daughters accom-
panied him, and a host of friends, European
and Chinese, will miss his kindly old face.
“K.W.” : On the Bogong high plains, the
most elevated area in Vic., is an old auriferous
river bed, covered up to the level of the
surrounding country by basalt. Here exposed
gravels were worked in the ’seventies, and
two miners driving under the basalt un-
earthed a petrified dug-out canoe. It was
1 soon covered up by sluicing debris and was
never seen.by a competent scientific observer,
but Prof. Gregory, of Melbourne Uni., said
that if it was what it was believed to be its
age must be not less than three million
years. In the Warrnambool museum are two
stone slabs, taken from a local sandstone
quarry, bearing human imprints. A German
authority, who came out to view them after
their discovery, set the age since the sand-
stone was sand on the beach at 30,000 years.
Australia is reckoned by geologists the oldest
land surface in the world. Mby it not have
been the cradle of the human race?:
❖ ❖ * Hs
“Gelt” : Wresting gold from the mountains
of New Guinea has been beset with more
fatalities and mishaps than usual during the
past six months. The Commonwealth inves-
tigator, C- S. King, died while making a
report on the fields; several other deaths
from disease are reported, and a new arrival,
J. Woods, was drowned in the waters of
the Upper Watut. Hellmuth Baum’s murder
followed shortly after a Papuan patrol
officer s narrow escape from Kuka-rvukas.
which was in turn succeeded by almost-fatal
attacks on . Mick and Paddy Leahy,' the
former being knocked unconscious with a
pineapple stick” and the latter speared
through the shoulder. Recently two old
miners, Bill Money (one of the Big Six)
and Bruno Schwartz, had a touch-and-go
with natives on the Ramu, being attacked
four times and losing all their camp gear.
Several ’plane crashes have occurred with a
varying amount of damage, and one aviator
Trist—has lost his life. The trouble
with natives is on the increase, and it is diffi-
cult to say whether this is caused by mis-
placed confidence on the part of the whites
or by the familiarity which has bred con-
tempt on the part of the blacks.
THE PRENTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alter reading numerous pars, about the latest
addition to Central Australian fauna.
There’s lots of perils wait the man who goes
a-pioneering,
Destroying thirst, grim hunger, too, and
blacks adept at spearing.
Unpleasant ways to end your days were
always dire and plenty
Out in Australia’s trackless wastes—the
latest is the Prenty.
The bunyip’s reckoned half a myth, and
nightmare-like inflictions
Such as the snark. and bandersnateh are:
Lewis Carroll fictions.
And when in boyhood’s days.we browsed in
Ballantyne and Henty
We never heard or read a word pertaining to
the Prenty.
Explorers hadn’t happened on him then or ;
classified him. j
But griffins and hobgoblins, too, are gentle
things beside him.
The bravest man may well remind himself
Festina lente • ■•-<■
When he intrudes On latitudes where lurks
the fearsome Prenty.
He used to be a saurian onee, maybe an
ichthyosaurus
Who made his lair beside Lake Eyre until
the bed got porous.
IDENTIFICATION.
JOHN HOP: "Can you give me a description of the man that
stole your harness?”
DAD: “Well, he was one o’ these here fellers with a heye like
a goanner, ’air on ’im color of a kookaburra, an ’a mous-
tache like a stumpy santipede.”
His habits and his habitat he had to change
< some twenty
Millions (or so) of years ago, and grow into
a Prenty.
Now evolution’s turned him to a swift and
ravening dragon,
Whose mere description makes you glad
you’re on the water-waggon,
A reptile just as shuddersome, declare the
cognoscenti.
As that which stout St. George wiped out
is the accursed Prenty.
He lurks in boulder-strewn ravines, or on
dry claypans’ marges,
And on unwary travellers like Hell let loose
he charges.
A fellow needs to watch his step and streak
for camp repente
When he looks back and on his track
observes the deadly Prenty. ,
The belly of a whale supplied the stage for
Jonah’s drama,
And Hiawatha had a spell inside the stur-
geon Nahma.
But either flit was just a bit of dolce far
niente.
There’s no comeback for him who makes a
dinner for a Prenty.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
Nestor .. 15,000 tons, Oct. 6
SCeramic .. 18,500 „ Oct. 26
Anchises .. 10,000 „ Nov. 24
Euripides .. 15,000 „ Dec. 9
Ascanius . . 10,000 „ Jan. 18
'First class only. tFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,C00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL
4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
r, A CJ ORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon, JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
n , . London Dffi ce —lB Birchin Lane. Lombard Street. E.C.3.
Federid* Territory* a Nev t Sauth Wales ’ Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
r eaerat lerritory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
„ „ the world.
. —f. « G , e v e l banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals: on application.
AYli
COMPOUND ESSENCE
| OF LINSEED
COUCH S
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Oppos/te Union Club and Two Minutes
Irom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments'
may be secured separately by the day,
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“Porzana”: There is every reason for sup-
posing that the kiwi is indigenous to Maori-
Jand, as “Tiki” (B. 2/9/’3l) coirtends. Noth-
ing remotely resembling the fowl is found
elsewhere, though some enthusiastic natural-
ists claim for him a distant relationship to
the ostriches. The fact that he is incap-
able of flight has really nothing to do with
the question, and the same may be said of
the flightless rails of Willis Island,, quoted by
“Kwinana” (B. 2/9/’3l). The rail family in
one shape or another is found all over the
world. All are winged—the kiwi cannot be said
to be, by the way—and all of them are very
chary of using their wings unless forced to
do so. The result has been that certain
isolated species like those of Willis Island
have forgotten how to fly, though they still
have the apparatus. The ancestors of the
Willis Island and other flightless rails un-
doubtedly first arrived in their present quar-
ters by air, but finding that conditions did
not call for flying got out of the habit. No
evidence has yet been produced to show* that
the kiwi has any flying history behind him,
except that he is a descendant of the
primeval archmopteryx and other bird-
lizards.
SWEET GOLDEN NOTES.
JOHN HENRY PENBERTHY ( chairman): “Fr’en’s ali! The next item on the programme
be Billy Penaluna be goin' to play a toon on his mandarin!”
“Kimberley”: The report that, Schellie
and Hansen have struck a rich reef at Hall's
Creek (North W.A.) reminds me that
the late E. T. Hardman, Government
Geologist of W.A., who had the late
Phil Saunders in his party, discovered
gold in that locality, 32 miles south of the
180-mile peg from Wyndham, in 1882,
In 1884 he furnished plans of part of the
area indicating where gold should be. Pros-
pectors following his lines found the metal,
but never in highly payable quantities. Much
of the 47,000 square miles of the Kimberley
field, of which Hall’s "Creek is the centre,
remains unprospected, and the only finds
reported in recent years have been acciden-
tal. Schellie and Hansen were sinking a
well, and tapped the reef at 200 ft. A man
putting down a hole of any sort in gold-
bearing country never knows his luck.
* * * #
“Gobi” : The writer of that par. concerning
the fearful outbreak of pneumonic plague after
the Russo-Japanese war (B. 2/9/’3l) mixed
his animals a little. The beasts who carried
the plague into Manchuria from the west
were not marmosets but marmots. The mar-
moset is a tiny monkey hailing from South
America; the marmot is a nuggetty little
burrower, who lives in huge colonies —the
Americans call him the woodchuck. The
European and Asiatic variety, which is
largely confined to northern latitudes, has
the curious habit of occasionally migrating
in vast hordes for no appreciable reason.
Once started, these migrations never stop
until disease wipes out the : herd or it reaches
the sea; into which it plunges like the
Gadarene swine. The plague may have been
brought to Harbin, as the writer says, by
skin-trappers. It came into Manchuria with
a marmot migration, arid not until the beasts
had perished from it was the danger stayed
&i* - $
“H.W.F.”: , Good Queen Bess’s pet cour
tier, if he could revisit the glimpses of the
moon, would find something to interest him
at Texas (Q.). The first experiment in
tobacco-growing there was the Raleightown
plantation worked by the Wills firm some
20 years ago. Nature brought her most
malignant forces into operation against
W. D. and H. 0., and after failures in three
successive years they gave it up. The first:
year a flood wiped out the crops, the second
year a gale blew the young plants right out
of the ground, and the third year typhoid
broke out among the field-workers, who were
mostly Chinese, and the crop was lost for
want-, of attention. Ken Robertson, who
refuses to be dismayed by precedent;' has
built a house on the site of the old Raleigh-
town school, and has named his farm
Raleigh. The folks next door, not to be
outdone, are calling their place Sirwalter.
“Homfrey Beale”: “Doc” (B. 19/8/’31)~Is
quite right about the possibilities of ferrets,
“Foumart” (B. 2/9/’3l) notwithstanding.
I’ve used them in big-warren country and got
over 100 rabbits a day. having three ferrets
and fifteen nets. On old Mowabla station
(Condobolin, N.S.W.) I got 57 out of one
warren. But ferrets are of no use where
burrows are small and far apart. “Foumart”
says they spoil the skins. Ridiculous. As soon
as bunny senses the ferret he bolts through the
nearest exit into the net, the ferret never
having a chance to get within coo-ee. Occa-
SAE OWERCOME.
“Heigh, mon, the pair wumman told me a terrible tale o’ dastitution.”
“Aye, aye, Ahlec—Ah noticed ye were sae owercome ye couldna see to open yair
pairrse.”
sionally one smothers up in a dead end, as
“Doc” says, and then, if unmuzzled, the
ferret will graze and sleep. I spent a bob
with Mick Simmons and j got for it two
ferret-muzzles, with the result that .if a
rabbit w r ent into a “smother” the ferret gave
the business up after a while and reported to
me on top, with its well furred. For
another thrippence Mick S. supplied me w’itli
ferret-bells, which enabled me to hear what
my myrmidon was doing below . There’s quite
a lot “Foumart” doesn’t know about ferrets.
“Mai Coolali”: Some little
time back the Queensland Gov-
ernment issued a proclamation
forbidding, the ' removal of
orchids from Crown lands, and
the islanders of Torres Strait
were enjoined not to transgress
the new law under dire penal-
ties. When a Ministerial party
arrived there the other day,
some of the visitors were
anxious to acquire specimens
of orchids and made their wants
knowm to Jimmy Susu. . “What
way that law?” he asked,
scratching his head. “First
time that Gubment sing out
and tell we no take them flower
—rs’pose we take them flower we
get tine or gaol. Now this time
when Gubment he come himself,
lie speak, ‘All right you take
them flower for give me, be-
cause I Gubment, only you
can’t take them for some
’nother man.’ But s’pose we
been break them flower for give
him, might he tak’ them and
then put we ’long gaol-house?
We think more better we don’t
give him; then some man say,
s’pose we no give him that
flower, might he. get wild and
make some other kind trouble
along we? Which way that
law? You tink Gubment can
change him for himself what
way he please?” Jimmy’s ori-
ginally sound views on the immutability of
laws are now all tangled.
.** £ *
. “Gelt”: I recently struck a link with the
Scott (“Wee Bobbie”) murder, which took
place in Bougainville (Mandated Solomons)
some six years ago. In the chief’s house of
a Buka village my curiosity was aroused by
the photograph of two hefty natives, taken,
apparently, in the Chinese atelier in Rabaul.
An ornamental pedestal, holding a vase of
flowers, stood between the two colored geiltle-
men, who were decked out in their best
lava-lavas. The arrogant [expression and
truculent attitude of one caused me to in-
quire of the chief who the poser might be.
“He,” my informant said proudly,” is Siken.
a relation of mine. He it was who murdered
the white man at Enus.” “Where is he?”
I asked. “Here,” and the chief inclined his
head towards the village communal house.
Later I discovered that when Siken was
sentenced to five years’ imprisonment the
natives! of the surrounding district were in-
formed by the Government that never would
he be allowed to return to his village; which,
in the circumstances, was a very wise edict.
But either official memory is short or banish-
ment is looked upon by the League of
Nations as-too harsh a treatment for mur-
dering a white. Anyway lie was repatriated,
arid now tells the story of his great exploit
around the family fire.
“Wandi” : For cunning the white cockatoo
perches unchallenged at the top of the class.
A flock will arrive about dusk and settle
for the night in a couple of trees handy to
a patch of ripe maize, perhaps on the oppo-
site side of the river. They come silently,
like sheeted ghosts, not a cackle to be heard
from one on the wing or on the roost. At
daylight-they volplane as stealthily on to
the crop, leaving one bird perched aloft to
keep watch. Usually he occupies a dead tree
as directly as‘possible above the raiders. ITow
the mob decides who is to be sentinel is a
mystery; he is singled out automatically, it
would seem, and always has fhe full confi-
dence of the community. At tfie approach
of the farmer or his boy the sentinel utters
a single note, and the flock rises at once
like a white cloud. Though I have spent
many shivering early hours “minding cocka-
toos,”. I admire the patience, unselfishness
and faithfulness of that sentinel.
“Bunny” : Clearing up a paddock of hol-
low logs and rabbits recently I expected to
destroy hundreds of bunnies by filling
either end of the hollow logs with sticks and
firing them. Cottontail, however, sat. tight
and sneezed beside the grub holes until the
sticks at one end or the other burnt down
a. little, then charged through the fire with
a shrill squeak. I caught several later in
traps and found that they were singed
brown, but none, the worse—no skin blistered
anywhere. Their fur and hair protect them
from tip to toe. And yet bunny cannot stand
the sun’s rays. Place an uninjured rabbit in
a cage trap in the glare of the sun when the
shade reading is 90deg. or over and he gives
up the ghost in five minutes.
*
THE SAPS OF GALLIPOLI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We dug them in the scorching heat, we dug
them in the .snow,
With blistered hands and aching backs and
with our lieatls held low.
We swung our picks and fashioned them with
many a cunning bend,
Thinking that every sap would get us some-
where in the end.
Deep furrows in a barren land, along the
hills they ran;
Each one a part, or so we dreamed, of an
accepted plan.
And though we cursed, as soldiers must,
while breaking out the clay,
These saps, we said, will help us all to get
somewhere, some day.
The saps upon Gallipoli with scrub are
overgrown.
Along their crumbling banks to-day the fall-
ing leaves are blown.
And we. who dug and fashioned them with
cunning and with care,
Have toiled in many a sap since then that
led not anywhere.
The saps upon Gallipoli have fallen to decay;
And maybe the same fate awaits the saps we
dig to-day.
But still belief persists, despite the empty
years and miles,
That we will dig a sap some dav to some-
where worth our whiles.
WESTBALIA.
OSOAR WALTERS.


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVEk
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
f
Representative: J. ARNOLD,
G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18/2.
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H.'Haft, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.O.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bapk offers the fullest facilities'for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.. LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
SMOKE-OH!
‘ ‘Gandhi leaves. ’ * — “Argus.”
They would be fig-leaves, presumablv.
* *
“Premier Lang’s speech was short.”
—“Labor Daily.”
The consistency of the man !
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
“California’s Supreme Court has granted Ruth
Wheeler the right to sue the Shell Oil Co. for
£50,000 for making a drunkard out of her husband,
Joseph.”— “Sun.”
Ruth Wheeler in anger declares
That her Joe by his calling was spoiled.
But in selling the Shell people’s wares
How on earth could he help getting oiled!
D—M.
UNOFFICIAL HISTORY.
And it came to pass in the year of the
Great Depression that an elderly man
entered a mansion on which Dole Office was
AT THE SUNDOWN SPORTS.
DEAR OLD LADY: “Wouldn’t it be simpler for them to
cut it?”
writ in letters of Gold. And to the far from
civil servant behind the counter he did say,
“Give me, I pray thee, my Dole Coupons.”
But he was answered, “What Scale?”
At this the Traveller tvas plunged in
Doubt, and knew not what to say.
So the Uncivil Servant spake again, say-
ing, “What be the name of thy Wife?” And
the other said, “Cripes! Which one?”
“And the number of thy Sous and thy
Daughters?”
To which the Traveller merely answered
dazedly, “Strewth!”
Then spake the Servant in a loud voice
saying, “Thou Big Mug! If thou hast a
Wife and One Kid thou art entitled to Scale
C: if thou hast Two Kids, it' be increased
to Scale D : if Three Kids, to Scale E. Any-
way, what is thy Name?”
To which he replied, “Solomon.”
“Solomon what?”
“King Solomon.”
Then did the Servant turn unto his Cobber
saying. “What manner of man is This? In
very Truth he cannot enter into the Scale
Class. Verily, verily, I say unto you, write
him down for a Weighbridge Issue.”
M. B.
tjxcuse: v -
“A Chicago prohibition enforcement officer named
Doyle, who boarded a launch to search for liquor,
was thrown overboard by the smugglers.”-— {‘Sun.”
The crook explained “/ have a wife
And likewise sons and daughters”:
And threw to save his precious life
Doyle on the troubled waters.
H'• %•
“Papeete looks delightful from the ship, but the
odors ashore are abominable.” —Returned traveller.
One of those spots where distance lends
enohantment to the “phew.”
GETHSEMANE.
“It’s the end, then?” The woman raised
anguished eyes to her husband.
He nodded, stony-faced.
“When?” The hissed monosyllable cut
the chill air like a knife.
“Soon,” he replied. “Perhaps—perhaps—
this verv month.”
The appalled hush was broken by her
wails.
“What shall we do?” she cried distract-
edly. “How shall we stand it?”
“Others have stood it,” said the man
grimly. “Aye, and lived through it for
years.”
“For years! God in Heaven! Surely
death were preferable.”
“It’s no good whining.” snapped the hus-
band, an absentee Australian who, owing to
super-taxation and the 30 p.e. exchange rate,
was leaving London for Sydney. “I’m off
to book the berths now. Instead of blub-
bering there you’d better see about sub-
letting this flat.”
* *
“Surplus railway men aged less than 30 years are
to augment the Vic. police force.” — “Argus.”
The force won’t have any old railway
buffers.
* *
“Dr. Cyril Jenkins, the band adjudicator, com-
plains that many Australian bands lack fulness of
tone.”
Surely he knows our shortness of brass.
At At
“After 18 months’ retirement he is returning to
‘the game’ and will operate on the Flat.”
—“Sunday Guardian.”
Poor old flat! They all pick on him.
* ¥
“Her grandmother, old Mrs. Lett, had a dairy farm
on The Rocks.” —“Sunday Guardian.”
And that’s where most of the farms are
these days.
* *
SECRET SPORT.
“At Tottenham (Vic.) pigeon matches ‘Tungala'
was leading winner with a break of eight birds.
The first four-bird event also went to ‘Tungala,’
but in the second ‘Paquito’ scored the possible. The
concluding sweepstakes was divided by ‘Tungala’
and ‘Fred.’ ” — “Age.”
From' our golfing representative: “Ano-
nymo” put in a sterling card of 16 at Ken-
sington yesterday under adverse conditions,
great difficulty being experienced by the
sportsman in remaining undiscovered. “In
Smoke;” his opponent, was also effective, but
lost two;up and one to play. “Anonymo” is
rumored to be a 16-year-old lad from a sea-
side suburb, which shall be nameless—but
we are making no charges. The identity of
the offenders- —that is, sportsmen—was art-
fully preserved by the club officials, who
smuggled them out of the building by a secret
passage after nightfall.
Society Note: What’s this I hear of the
breaking-off of the engagement between the
golf addicts “Sheiko” and “Flapperette”?
On dit that her father found out he was
“Sheiko” and simultaneously his people
pierced the shameful veil of her nom de links.
After that, of course, the fat was in the
fire, both families having their reputations to
consider.
Law Report: Brown-Jones r. “Sunday
Tabloid.” In this suit, in which Mr. Brown-
Jones is claiming £lO,OOO damages, it is
alleged that defendant newspaper falsely and
maliciously accused plaintiff of being “Plus
Four,” a notoi’ious champion. Mr. Brown-
• Tones says the charge has seriously injured
his business, and has caused him to be
socially ostracised.
Advt.: If parties who have been setting it
about that I am in the habit of sly-golfing
don’t stop slandering my name they will
be made to prove their words.—Signed,
Jos. Smith.
lIIS FAULT.
“He denied that he had compelled his wife to
attend bridge parties. He was a bad player and
only played at all because his wife insisted.”
■ — Divorce-court report.
He hated bridge, and never would
Have played but for his native meekness r
And anyhow he was no good—
l mean, he always placed from weakness.
* *
LEGEND.
“In fancy one sees Henry Lawson’s tall, spare
figure tramp, tramping over mulga spaces at the
back o’ beyond with his faithful, inseparable dog.
His bush people! The people with whom he moved,
lived, loved, and had his being.”— “Age.”
These musings on a poet who never had
a dog and spent most of his working life
in Sydney have a bearing on
Professor Blobb's “Historical
Myths Exposed.’’ According
to the Prof., Nelson never said
“Kiss me, Hardy,” but “He
missed me, Hardy.” Nelson,
like Kitchener, lived in dis-
guise to a good old age. He
rose to be Sheik of the Valen-
tino tribe of Arabs and begot
a descendant as illustrious as
himself.
Bill Adams’s claim to have
won the Battle of Waterloo,
which has been denied by most
historians, is shown by
Blobb to be perfectly bona
fide. Wellington, the reputed
winner, was in bed suffering
a recovery from a certain
notorious ball, to which Bill
had not been invited, when
the boys hopped the bags. The
duke’s only connection with
Blucher lay in the fact that
they were rivals in the boot
trade —the German dealing in
workers’ footwear and the
Briton in a form of top-boot.
It was Wellington’s associa-
tion with the boot trade and
the fact of Adams owning a
famous Sydney bar that
caused Napoleon to sneer at
his foes as “a nation of shopkeepers.”
Professor Blobb has also proved to the
satisfaction of all intelligent Lang Planners
that the N.S.W. Premier never promised to
banish unemployment, borrow millions in
the U.S.A., bring prosperity to primary pro-
ducers, or impose a ss. in the £ wages tax.
His book occupies a place of honor at Sydney
Trades Hall beside “Das Kapital.” and the
study of it is to be made obligatory on all
N.S.W. citizens as soon as the Government’s
projected compulsory Blobbs Board is con-
stituted.
H. S.
* ¥
“William Hardy, when he assaulted a harmless-
looking Chinaman, did not expect to wake up in
hospital.”
William bit off more than he could Ah
Chew.
THE STICKY BEAK
HUBBY: “Who was the letter from this
morning?”
WIFEY: “What do you want to know for?
HUBBY: “There you go! ‘What do I want
to know for?’ You’re the most inquisi-
tive woman I ever met.”
“There is no shame now attached to the fact that
you are poor. In fact, it adds a certain amount of
interest to you.” —“Sunday Guardian.”
Unfortunately for Australia, it is the
adding of the interest that keeps us poor.
Premier Lang is Oliver Twisting on the
Loan Council.
“One section of British economists say M’s.P.
must be reduced in numbers.” — Cable.
They evidently believe that the country
should’ be put on short Commons.
x x
“Waltevs, a master mariner, had bad practically
no experience of the ring when he decided to enter
for his first tournament.” — “Sun.”
Still he had often boxed the compass.
* *
“Three times I called at the Department, and was
told I would have to wait.”
Civil servants mostly like to throw their
wait about.
* H-
“When arrested, accused was standing drunk in
front of a greengrocer’s shop abusing a bag of
potatoes.”-—“j Daily Telegraph.”
His w T ay of producing chipped potatoes.
“She was convicted of stealing a fur costume to
wear to a fancy-dress ball.”— “Age.”
“The law’s an ass,” ’tis said, which seems
quite true;
For now it has decreed ’tis not her suit.
While it is plain to folk like me or you
That it quite definitely is hirsute.
2JL
ULTIMATUM.
/1 was the steamer Hesperus,
And she didn’t plough the sea,
For the crew had struck , and given the cap.
An emphatic raspberree.
“Not another inch do we budge from ’ere,”
Said their spokesman tried and true,
“Till new fur coats as per oyr award
Are supplied to this union crew!”
Mc.
ANTICIPATIONS.
As the queue waiting for tickets in the
N.S.W. State Lottery now extends from
Castlereagh-street to Parra-
matta, it lias been decided to
speed up at headquarters.
Mr. Eadsadollar, Controller
of Government S.P. Book-
makers, notifies the public that
no odds other than those pub-
lished in the “Government
Gazette” will be recognised
when paying out.
Mr. Lang was in great form
in the Assembly last night—
a reaction to the magnificent
earnings of the State Racing-
Stables at the recent spring
carnival. If the present
sequence of long-priced wins
can be maintained, Mr. Lang’s
Budget is likely to confound
his critics and everybody else.
Charlie Wun Lung has been
appointed in an advisory capa-
city to the Controller of Gov-
ernmental Fan-tan and Pak-a-
pu Schools.
In answer to Mr. Bavin,
Mr. Lang hotly denied any
political favoritism in connec-
tion with the recent appoint-
mept of chairman of the
Crown and Anchor Board.
Owing to the increased price
of whisky, the State Bob-in
has been abandoned.
McM.
THE QUESTION.
It had to be faced. Brownson considered
himself as good an Australian as the next
man, so it was a question which affected him
as much as the'greatest or. the. lowliest ,in the
land. There were carpers who said it couldn t
be done —on no better grounds really than
that it was unprecedented. But Brownson
had learnt that the old order was changing.
Had he not seen within the-past few months
unbelievable changes in the habits, politics
IT COULDN’T DO EVERYTHING.
PATIENT: “So I’ve got to have an anaesthetic! How
long will it be before I know anything?”
DOCTOR : “Now don’t expect too much of an ancesthetic."
and financial ideas of his fellow-countrymen.
Yes, history Was being made daily,_ almost
hourly, and so he must decide this big ques-
tion before he went to bed to-night. For
it was the night of the first Monday in
November. Could Phar Lap or could he
not break all records and win the Cup with
10.12?
J. P.
HOPE.
Hope springs infernal in the human beast,
prompting expense of toil and cash in vain.
Beyond his bread and scrape man sees the
feast; beyond the loss on Alsoran the gain
to come when Slovenhoof romps briskly in :
beyond;the emptied bottle the refill —in fact,
though crushed with loss, defeat and sin.
man sees in all things Hope upspringing
still.
Hope is our second in this roped-in ring
we know as. life: it stirs us to our feet
urging forgetfulness of all the sting of
Fate’s last blow with “Victory is sweet!”
Then in again to meet our gruel we dash.
We get it on the boko, on the ear, the jaw.
the mark—a hurricane of bash, until,
stunned, bruised and beaten down, we hear
“You’ve got F'ate rocking—stick it and you’ll
win ! Get in and hit him—force him to the
rope!” He eggs you on to raise your bat-
tered chin for the attention Fate soon gives.
That’s Hope!
And yet it’s best to fight, when all i*
reckoned. Happy the fellow who has Hope
for second.
H. M.


WRITE FOR FULL SET OF SAMPLES
THE '
FINEST
JLSIQIM
IHX
SELECTION
IN THE COMMONWEALTH
Summer will soon be here. Time to lay aside heavy winter
weights and don Lightweight Tropical Suitings. Pike Brothers have
the latest range—ideal for hot weather—cool, comfortable and
tailored to look well, wear well and fit well on all occasions.
Send for patterns.
AUSTRALIAN DONEGAL TWEEDS
Splendid for Sports Coats. Smart, colorful, obtainable in a very
pleasing range of checks. Patterns gladly sent.
SPORTS COATS, To-Measure, 67/6; Ready-Made, 47/6
THE “HUNTER” TROUSERS
Made rrom the very best Australian-made Twist and all Pure
Australian Wool. The 'Hunter” Trousers are the finest value in
their class and carry Pike Brothers’ unconditional guarantee.
TO-MEASURE, 45/-; 2 PAIRS for 79/6
READY-MADE, 35/-; 2 PAIRS for 59/6
is made in Australia in answer to the universal demand for
economy. For SPORTS or LEISURE, CRICKET, TENNIS, BOWLS,
BOATING, DECK WEAR or LOUNGE “GABARTWILL”
CREAM TROUSERS are the most serviceable.
TROUSERS, to Measure, 42/-; 2 PAIRS for 79/6
READY-MADE, 32/6; 2 PAIRS for 59/6
PRICE INCLUDES BELT of the same material, or in TAN SUEDE.
Write for Patterns and Self-Measurement Form to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET , BRISBANE.
AND AT TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH AND TOWNSVILLE.
Lime improves your Land
APPLIM
BRAND
Agricultural Lime
Goes further, Acts quicker, Costs less
“Applim” Agricultural Lime is 95 p.c. Calcium
Carbonate. It is finely pulverised and can thus be
spread economically. It is readily soluble and
reacts quickly.
WHAT “APPLIM** DOES
Liberates potash and phosphates
Decomposes organic matter
Promotes nitrification
Corrects soil acidity
Makes clay soil friable
Tends to bind sandy soil
Stimulates bacterial activity
Promotes soil fertility
Thus plant food is made available, the soil is
sweetened and crops and pasture are vastly im-
proved.
NOTE. —An application of “ Applim ” before
sowing lucerne or clover practically ensures a good
stand.
Write for technical booklet.
Price (in 10-ton lots), F.O.R. Footscray,
25/- per ton
AMMONIA PRODUCTS Pty., ltd..
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Power to suit the times!
5-H.P. “LISTER DIESEL.”
Here is the cheapest engine-power in Australia.
Reckoning the price of crude oil at 6d. per
gallon, a “Lister Diesel’’ will develop 5 h.-p.
for you on full load for less than 2d. an hour,
or 9 h.-p. on full load for well under 4d. an
hour.
The “Lister Diesel’’ starts from cold—instan-
taneously—without the aid of heating or
igniting devices of any kind. It works on low
compression, and is therefore able to give years
of satisfactory service at a lower cost than any
other type of engine.
The thousands of Lister engines in use in
Australia are your guarantee that this new
Diesel, bearing the same proud name, will stay
on the job as long as you care to run it. No
Lister engine has ever worn out.
9-H.P. “LISTER DIESEL.”
COLD-STARTING
ON
CRUDE OIL
OS
IS
British Buiv-'
DIESEL
Full Particulars will be supplied on request by State Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Malloch House, Young Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
West Footscray.
Showroom: 596 Bourke Street.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Mile End.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
MALLOCH BROS.,
50-54 William Street,
Perth.


What matter if you’re poor, if strong,
No wealth but thews and sinew,
Digestion like a working horse,
Pure blood that flows within you?
Oh, health’s a pearl, a string of them
To wear in life assure.
For coughs and colds the pearl of all
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
fo succeed*
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
farsonol tttentlM.
Office*: 44 Irilfe Street. Sjlney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance. >
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. Pone-si Wrotarv P. V
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
1
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
ď
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge'Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Bus
conducted.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
LIME AND TOP-DRESSING.
“B. Ware” : Since top-dressing with super,
has come into general practice many farmers
in southern Vic. have been conducting a
little experimentation on their own account,
and as a result there is quite a boom in lime.
It has long been known that grazing areas
in certain districts responded well to heavy
dressings of mild lime— i.e., ground limestone
or chalk —but cost has always been a bar-
rier against general adoption of this plan.
Lime-deficient grazing soils are always of
poor quality and low value. You can’t go in
for spreading tons of the stuff per acre
when it costs a couple of pounds per
ton and the value of the land is about
a tenner an acre. To all appearances small
dressings of 4cwt. to scwt. per acre give no
return. However, practical farmers have found
this to be a case of Irish stew without the
onion, and grazing areas are showing encour-
aging results when limed a few hundred-
weight per acre after super.
No doubt this development accounts for the
preparation of what the salesman who brought
a sample to my farm called “lime manure.”
Having done a little chemistry in my time I
tested the lime (and some of his statements)
by placing a little of the sample in a glass
tumbler a quarter full of water and adding-
spirits of salts (muriatic acid) from the
plumbing outfit in the smithy. The stuff
fizzed like sodawater, but when the fizzing
stopped (despite the addition of more acid)
the residue in the bottom of the glass was
almost as great as the amount of sample
taken for the test, proving the material to
be a marl of poor quality. A good limestone
or chalk (mild lime) will leave very little
residue when the test is applied. A marl is
a calcareous clay or sand in which the
lime content varies greatly, and when the
test is applied the acid dissolves the lime and
leaves the insoluble clay and sand. It follows
that a marl will not be worth as much per
ton as a good chalk or ground limestone,
because the value will depend on the lime
content.
Marls contain anything from 10 to 50 per
cent, carbonate of lime. Good-quality lime-
stone or chalk contains at least 85 per cent.
Naturally if material containing 85 per cent,
can be purchased for 355. per ton, a 50 per
cent, article would not be worth any more
than a pound—not allowing for freight and
transport charges. For the benefit of the
uninitiated let me say the application of
the simple acid test is of value in detecting
the lime-liar, and that mild lime top-dressing
of pastures after super, is worthy of trial.
TOP-DRESSING WITH SUPER.
“Greenacres”: Tell “Tallama,” who wrote
(B. 26/8/’3l) about top-dressing and treat-
ment of dairy grasslands, that it is not
the common experience of North Coast
(N.S.W.) dairy-farmers to get “unsatisfac-
tory results” with super., as the rapidly-grow-
ing demand for this fertiliser proves. Failures
have resulted (and will continue) when the
job is not tackled properly. Super, will not
give of its best unless two prime factors are
first attended to : (a) renovation of the grass
sward by suitable implements, (b) liming on
a proper scale where necessary—-and it gen-
erally is necessary.
Super, is not “broken down by sulphuric
acid,” but is the product resulting from the
scientific mixing of finely-ground rock phos-
phate and sulphuric acid. The finished
article, if properly made, is practically free
of acid and does not make the soil sour,
as Sir John Russell and other world-
renowned authorities have proved. .What
does “Tallama” mean by “using a third of
lime for all super, used”? Government and
other experts recommend an application of
at least lOcwt. of lime per acre every three
years, in conjunction with annual dressings
of from lcwt. to 2cwt. of super, per acre;
this advice is based on sound knowledge of
the subject, supported by practical results.
As to different kinds of phosphates, the
African articles are much lower in phos-
phate content than Ocean and Nauru rock,
which when finely ground is just as “soluble
(a much misused word) as the African phos-
phates. And what does “Tallama” mean
when he states that Gafsa and Phosfull “are
90 per cent, soluble”? What is Phosfull? I
should like to know the source of supply,
its complete analysis and its price per ton
oh rail Sydney?
“Tallama’s” reference to Mr. George
Allan’s results with soft grasses is quite an-
other story, easily understandable because of
the cultivation given before sowing.
take-all grub in the pasture.
“S. Quire”: In certain parts of Victoria
the take-all grub lias played havoc in many
a good grass paddock. Pasture which a few
years ago assisted in grazing 40 or 50 cows
and in addition gave a knee-deep cut of
burr clover for grass hay annually appears
to-day as an unsightly and useless waste of
capeweed. What has converted the cow-to-
two-acre country into a condition insufficient
to sustain a rabbit to the acre to-day V
The answer is pea-mite plus grub. But,
strictly speaking, neglect is the real cause
of the trouble. The pea-mite (which is in-
correctly termed red spider by many), a
spidery-looking mite with a round black body
and many brilliant red legs, oiten escapes
detection ’ through its nervous habit of fall-
ing to earth at the slightest alarm, there to
curl itself up into a tiny black ball almost
unnoticeable on the soil and remain motion-
less until everything is perfectly still once
more. The insect is particularly fond of
leguminous plants, but it does not believe
in duck or no dinner, and in particular
seasons will attack anything in the shape
of greenstuff.
The pest made its appearance in the
western district of Victoria many years ago,
and in recent years has spread to such an
extent that the cloyers and trefoil have been
eradicated from many of the pastures. It is
a peculiar fact that a pea-mite visitation,
which always occurs during autumn and
winter, is almost invariably accompanied
or followed by a grub or caterpillar attack.
As surely as the mite cleans up the legu-
minous part of the pasture so does the grub
denude the paddock of its grasses, and as the
better plants disappear the useless capeweed
grows rank and finally takes possession of
every inch of ground. Capeweed appears
to act as a host for pea-mite and should
therefore be controlled.
If taken in time, top-dressing in the early
autumn with iewt. of super, containing 5
per cent, of soluble cresilic (carbolic) acid,
followed by a dressing of 2cwt. of sulphate
of ammonia (a recognised destroyer of cape-
weed), broadcast in the early spring, will
check the pest. The only catch in the sug-
gested treatment is the fact that earbolie acid
is a most deadly poison; extraordinary
precautions, must be observed when prepar-
ing the solution and mixing it with the super.
In cases where mite and grub have been
allowed to run rampant and capeweed has
obtained a firm hold, take time by the fore-
lock and plough, cultivate and sow rape,
millet or the like with or without carbolised
super., leaving the fringing headland in bare
fallow, regularly stirred. After feeding off,
sow down in grass for permanent pasture.
It will be found that subsequent top-dressing
with super, will bring along the burr clover
“as good as ever was,”
LABOR COSTS IN WOOL PRODUC-
TION.
“A.H.S,” : In reply to “Barcoo Bill” (B.
19/8/’3l), I fail to see what the weight cut
per sheep has to do with my original argu-
ment, which was that labor costs in wool
production could not be called “negligible.”
However, the figures submitted by me
included sheep , and lambs, and the proceeds
were net, whereas “Bill” is quoting return
per grown sheep per pound, and gross price
paid at wool-selling centres. The actual cut
per grown sheep in my case was lllb.. Boz. in
1926 and 81b. 4oz. in 1930, in the latter year
the wool being grown on a rainfall of about
half the average. As regards price paid
per pound, that is a circumstance over which
I have no control, being neither a woolbuyer
nor having charge of the weather.
As “Bill” suggests, the shearing was car-
ried out by contract, as also was the crutch-
ing. Figures were respectively Is. and IOJd.
per sheep for shearing and 21s. and 14s. per
100 for crutching. “B.B.” can indulge in a
little further mental arithmetic to arrive at
the numbers. The figures I submitted are
for two separate properties 70 miles apart
and capable of carrying up to 10,000 sheep
between them in a fair average season. If
“B.B.” can “efficiently” run them for £312
per annum he is assured of a job from
me —provided that out of this amount
he is prepared to pay for all labor costs for
dipping, marking, burr-cutting, etc., and
“allowing costs of repairs and maintenance
of improvements.” Admittedly the wages
paid in 1926-27 were high, but in that year
over £4OO was spent in rabbit eradication,
which I maintain is actually a labor cost
in wool production, as you cannot run rabbits
and sheep together profitably.
Finally, allowing “B.B.” his own figures
for 1930-31 as 2d. per pound, I .wonder
whether he would consider it negligible
if his wages were docked 25 per cent.
DETERIORATION OF FROCKS.
“Liss”: There is some truth in what
“Valerin” says (B. 26/8/’3T), but ram-
breeders are not so much to, blame tor the
lack of uniformity in our flocks as he seems
to think, nor do' I imagine that ram-buyers
are so “unsuspecting.” If they buy
poor sheep it is because they get em
cheap. Few sheepmen are really good judges
of rams, but most men can recognise a
mongrel-bred one when they see it. As for
the stud’s credentials and history, there is
such a thing as the Merino Register; studs
not registered should not.be patronised if
one is fearful of being taken down. Most
studmasters are only too pleased to show
prospective buyers not only their sale rams,
but also the ewes from which they were bred.
The secret of the even, well-bred flock lies
in having it properly classed each year by one
competent in this work and one who, for
preference, is not associated with the manage-
ment of the flock. A great deal can be done
in the matter of keeping the clip typical,
within limits, by employing such a man,
provided all culls are disposed of. There is
neither reason nor excuse for running bad
sheep nowadays, and money paid to an efficient
sheep-classer is money well spent; the repu-
tations gained by Queensland flocks which
have been classed for years by men outside
the station management, and the demand for
their sale sheep, is evidence of this. Graziers
do not hesitate to employ a woolclasser each
shearing, but most of them would be aghast
at the idea of having the flock classed by a
professional sheep-classer; yet the one is just
as important, in his own sphere, as the
other. How much simpler it is for a wool-
classer to make a decent job of a clip from a
well-classed flock than of one from a flock
in which the culls are still running! In
the first case it is much easier for him to
set his standards, as the average quality of
the clip quickly becomes apparent and the
wool generally shows plenty of character. In
the latter case the wool comes to -the table
higgledy-piggledy, ' short arid long, strong,
medium and fine all together, with straight
wools, abhorred by the trade, predominant in
every quality.
No, responsibility for all this cannot be
shoved off on the ram-breeder. The. grazier
has no one but himself to blame if his sheep
are mongrel-bred. < ■
POINTS IN MAIZE-GROWING.
“H'ortus”: Whether planting three grains
in a heap is preferable to one grain every
loin, or so is largely a question of which
suits the grower. In theory, the- plants under
the first system gain support irom each otuer,
but if seed and conditions are right they
should need no support. In single planting
it is popularly supposed that removing the
suckers results in more grain; it does not.
The suckers should only be removed if
required for green feed. The roots use the
same area of ground either way, and it is just
a matter of choice. “Planting threes” is
becoming the most popular.
It is often argued that the yellow maize
has a higher feeding value than the white,
but analysis proves them equal.
■Jf fungus is noticeable, burn all stalks,
for if you plough the latter in you
are ploughing in trouble. Such diseases,
according to the experience of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, would not remain
in the ground long if a sensible rotation of
crops were carried out by growers. At
present, owing to expense, the inclusion of
leguminous crops in a rotation scheme cannot
really be considered. A maize-oats rotation
is as good as any.
Although a few years ago machine-sowing
of manure was advocated everywhere, it
seems nowadays that the best \ results are
gained from broadcasting. This should be
done a couple of weeks before-ploughing, and
harrowed in.
Expert tests have proved that plough-
hilling reduces the yield. .The old idea was
that hilling gave support to the stalks: it
really gives very little and none should be
needed. H'illing is used largely for weed
control, but should be done with caution. A
plough will cut too many roots, unless used
very carefully to throw the centres out.
Don’t sow too deeply. The old idea that
sowing deeply gave the plants extra root-
hold or growth does not hold much sway
nowadays. Some growers cut the top off
late-maturing grain, thinking that it will
hasten maturity. It will not do so, but it
gives stock feed. Once pollination is over, the
top has done its work.
The tassels contain one cord of silk for
every grain on the cob, and missed grains in
a cob indicate that their particular cords
have either failed to pollinate or have been
eaten off by a grub. It is a case of “no
tassel, no maize.”
WATER SEASONING OF TIMBERS.
"R.T.B. ’: “J.G.5.,” writing (B. 26/8/’3l)
in support of “Mullarula’s” “theory” regard-
ing the water seasoning of some Australian
timbers, quotes as an instance of the dura-
bility of pine so treated houses built of this
timber over 50 years ago at Maryborough
(Q.). Actually this process of seasoning
has long since passed the “theory” stage; it
was indeed used in the days of the building
of the “wooden walls of old England.” When
the ships arrived at H. M. dockyards with
their cargoes of timber it was not discharged
on to the wharves, but thrown info the
water and left for a certain period. After-
wards it was stacked in sheds with a deep
gable roof and overhanging eaves to keep off
the snow and rain. At the front of each
shed was a board giving the names of each
stack of timber, such as “Honduras mahog-
any,” “Burma teak,” “African oak” (which
isn’t an “oak” any more than the Tasmanian
“oak” is an “oak”). The timbers were never
used till perfectly dry. Similar seasoning,
I believe, was carried out in the early
’eighties in old Darling Harbor (Sydney).
As one who has given years of study to
Australian timber, my explanation is that the
water removes or washes out the sap with
the whole of its contents, whilst in the
various drying processes water only is eva-
porated, and so its organic and inorganic
contents are deposited on the walls of the
traclieids or vessels. From such deposits
sports of fungus germinate, with the result
that a fungoid growth is set up; dry rot
sets in, arid the wood perishes. It is a great
mistake to paint the ends of timber when
seasoning. Running water is preferable,
being quicker in its action.
BANANA-PLANTING DISTANCES.
“Azac”: At last the banana-growing
experts of N. S. Wales have revised their
ideas as to the best planting distances.
Authorities in other parts of the world have
all along advocated planting at least 12ft.
apart on the square. Up till this season offi-
cial advisers in N. S. Wales recommended 10ft.
by 10ft., and they hold even now that such
close planting was warranted by the ravages
of bunchy-top, which eventually thinned out
plants to much more than 10ft. by 10ft. on
the average. However, owners of planta-
tions established during the past two years
and with no chance of being affected by
bunchy-top are finding their stools (with
three stems and three following suckers)
rather crowding one another.
With the wider spacing now recommended
each stool is given more room. This means
a greater feeding area for its root system,
more sunlight and better circulation of air
among the plants—essential factors for the
elaboration of the substances that go to
make up the fruit in such a prolific bearer
as the banana. Then the grower is not so
hampered in the never-ending and arduous
tasks of weeding and de-suckering. Har-
vesting of the bunches is facilitated, and the
discovery and treatment of diseases and
pests are made very much easier.
Above all, the wider the planting the longer
will be the life of the plantation. Although
fewer bunches per acre will be harvested, the
fruit will be larger and of better quality,
and should therefore go'close to filling the
same number of cases. In any event the
extra returns for the bigger fruit should
more than compensate for any slight diminu-
tion in quantity.
GRAFTING FRUIT TREES.
“Hop Scrub”: Before the trees start
spring growth is the time to consider graft-
ing the “deadheads.” Get in early and
secure scion wood of profitable commercial
varieties from disease-free and heavy-pro-
ducing trees. Out the scions any time after
leaf-fail and before the buds swell, and store
in damp sawdust. Remember in all grafting
the scion must be dormant; one-year wood
as thick as a lead pencil is the best. The
cleft and strap graft give best results; the
former is mechanically stronger, but the
splitting of the stock leaves it susceptible
to fungus diseases. In the latter graft the
strap widens as the scion grows and covers
up the wound.
The stock should be hardy and healthy;
with that qualification any variety of apple
or pear can be top-worked. After the scions
have taken, nip , back, but don’t entirely
remove, any growth from the stock during
the growing season, and let all the scions
grow until the cut surface is covered; later
suppress the undesirable ones. In winter
prune for low branching.
In districts where the poly.stictus fungus
is a menace, remove all wrappings and wax
early, and paint with Bordeaux paste (blue-
stone lib., lime 111 b., water llgal.). A good
“brush” wax consists of 51b. resin, lib. bees-
wax, -ipt. linseed oil. Melt resin and bees-
wax together, then add oil. Stir and let it
simmer for a few minutes. Pour out into
shallow tins (a kerosene-tin cut lengthways
does). Break into lumps and hold for use.
(Continued on Page 26.) .


V
“The result of feedings Meggitfs
Linseed Meal has been a splendid mills
flow compared to last season .”
BROWN BROS.,
Hobwager, Tweed Heads. N.S.W.
f
“I have been feeding Meggitfs
Linseed Meal twice per diay to my
cows since April, with wonderful re-
sults. ”
H. C. BLANCH,
Lismore, N.S.W.
t
"For food value in proportion to
milk and price, I consider Meggitt’s
Linseed Meal is unrivalled
J. A. 11. TULK,
Wyrallah, N.S.W.
d
“Average number of cows, June to October,
was forty. Total cost of feed, June to October,
was £2/17/4 per cow, or £ll4/13/4- Factory
cheque for this period, £377/9/3, leaving a
credit of £262/15/11 over feeding costs. 46
bags of ‘Meggitfs’ were used, the balance of cost
made up of bran, pollard and molasses. Note
the splendid gain each month, June to October
J. H. JULIUS, Cudgen, N.S.W.
t
“J can assure yon I am more than pleased
with results of feeding Meggitt’s Linseed Meal.
My cows are wonderfully healthy and have all
finished up in great condition after producing
some heavy yields, including four cows over
6001 b. butter fat”
W. MASTERS,
Alurraydale, Victoria.
ď
“As a breeder of Stud Stock, 1
would like, to see every dairy-farmer
using Meggitfs Linseed Meal."
E. HAINES.
Wyanga, Malanda, N.Q.
«
“We have been using Heggitt's Lin-
seed Meal in the herd for the last
few months with most gratifying
results.”
J. H. WYLDE-BROWNE,
Burnside, Glenreagh, N.S.W.
1
“I have used a good deal of Meggitfs
Linseed Meal over the, past feu • years
and have had excellent results
ARTHUR W. GREY,
The Pines, Kiama, N.S.W.
f
“J might state that I knocked off feeding on
Meggitfs Meal for a week and the cows dropped'
forty pounds in butter. I did this just to see
what benefit was in the Meal, and this might to
prove that, the Meal increases production con-
siderably,'’
ED. JOHNSTON,
Pearce’s Creek, Booyong, N.S.W.
t
“Having fed concentrates to my cows for the
last three years, I was inclined to be sceptical
as to the value of any additional meal. I find
that the cows . respond readily to Meggitt's
Linseed Meal and at the present time am having
about 25% increase over peak period, which
I think speaks for itself
MILTON COOKE,
1 McLaren Vale, S.A.
d
“Not only as a milk-producing
food is Meggitt's Linseed Meal of
high value, hut also it maintains the
cows in healthy condition and
enables them to consume more
roughage without danger of indi-
gestion.''
A. C, ROENFELDT,
Glendale, Greenock, S.A.
ď
“My cow produced 2.351 b. commercial
butter in 21, hours. Daily ration: com-
pressed lucerne chaff, green lucerne, bran,
crushed maize and 3lb. Mcggittfs Linseed
Meal. I am thoroughly convinced . that
MeggitVs Linseed Meal contains wonderful
milk-producing values. Can also thoroughly
recommend it for pigs and calves.”
WALTER MURRAY,
Leewood,
Kolodong, Manning River, N.S.W.
f
“I am now milking and feeding
JfS cows and getting more cream
than I was a few weeks hack when
milking 68 on natural grasses only.
The ration given is 101 b. chop-chop
and lib. Meggitt’s Linseed Meal
morning and night.'’
,tas. p. McCracken,
Mount View, Kolan River South,
via Bundaberg, Queensland.
H =5
GITTs
y
>GGITt yM
T>ROVE it yourself. Make this experi-
* ment. Get a few bags of Meggitt’s
from your factory or produce store.
Feed a good handful morning and night,
together with a good handful of bran.
You’ll see results in the milk pail
within a few 7 days.
MBGGITT§
UNSEED OIL MEAL
Supplies obtainable through —
New South Wales: Meggitt, Limited, Asbestos
House, corner York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
and all Pastoral Houses, Produce Merchants
and Butter Factories.
Victoria: New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Branches.
South Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Currie Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
Tasmania: F. W. Heritage and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
Western Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, and Branches. Sub*
distributors: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
Queensland: All Produce and General Mer-
chants, Pastoral Houses, and most Butter
Factories.
S end for
booklet
To MEGGITT, LTD.,
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Advisory Department.
If you would like advice on a balanced
ration, send* particulars of pasture and
present ration.
Name
Address


■tt
Ife.
\\
ilb
V
31
There are four widths
It’s impossible for everyone to be
correctly fitted when there’s only one
width available in shoes of each full
and half-size. So this exclusive Abbey
Shoe is made in the different widths
found to accord most closely with
natural measurements —four fittings
for every full or half-size It fits just
as if made to order—no breaking-in
is necessary.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS.
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY'.
PPL 246
IOIUIVd 3Hi,
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCJLiFFB,
2 HUNTER STREET.
(onstipation
means the end
of Health
pi'
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless ills, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
ing worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
FIGSEN
ffi
There is a J\ya
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNET.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances*^ c tcd on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
1 Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The "United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
d
£xtce
S E RV I C E
Here is the Sign
that backs
Australia’s Greatest
Car Battery Value-
Sponsored by EXUDE
6 Volt —11 Plate Battery
Suitable for light and medium can
39/
12 Volt —7 Plate Battery
Suitable for all 12 volt systems
65/
Send for your free copy of the Exide Booklet
“Taking Care of Your Battery**
DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery Service (Q-) *
Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and
Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide —•
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.; Perth —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.;
Hobart —Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
Sold by S.vt?< dealers
Backed byltxice service
Covered by£xt£k guarantees
M .
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is subterranean clover a suitable pasture
for the second-class hill country of the Daw-
son Valley ( Q.) ? —5157.
Not recommended. This plant requires
cooler weather and a better distributed rain-
fall than that experienced in Central Q’land.
What districts in N.S.W. are best adapted
to fat-lamb raising, and what is the carrying
capacity of the land? —s3ss.
Prom Cowra to the Vic. border and as far
west as Temora, Coolamon and Oaklands.
The carrying capacity depends largely on the
farming practice. The best fat lambs are
produced in conjunction with wheat-growing.
Are settlers in a district subject to the
ravages of animal pests entitled to a Federal
income-tax deduction on wire-netting bought?
—5435.
Yes.
What is the cause of a cow not chewing
cud? Treatment? —5393.
Cessation of rumination is a symptom of
most illnesses of the cow. The following
drench is suggested: Epsom salts. 11b.; table
salt, loz.; treacle, lib.; ground ginger, 1
teaspoon in one quart of warm water.
(1) What is mammitis in dairy cows? (2)
If a cow has once had it, is her milk fit to
use for domestic purposes after next calf?
(3) If a cow goes blind in one teat, is it
caused by mammitis? (4) If, after separat-
ing the milk, the separator-cups are covered
with a whitish slime, is this a sign of some-
thing wrong with the cows? (5) I have a
cow about 15 years old which _ has had a.
cough for eight years. Gould this be T. 8.?
She is a good milker and always in fair con-
dition^—s36o.
(1) It is an inflammation of the mammary
gland and may be due to a variety of causes,
such as tuberculosis, actinomycosis, strep-
toccic and staphylococcic infection, or, in
the case of sporadic mammitis, an injury or
chill of the udder. (2) A cow that has tuber-
cular or actinomycotic mammitis should be
destroyed. In some of the other types men-
tioned. such an improvement takes place at
a subsequent calving that the milk can be
used for human consumption. (3) A cow fre-
quently loses a quarter or goes blind in a
teat as the result of mammitis. (41 It
may indicate mammitis. (51 May be tuber-
culosis. Communicate with the stock
inspector and ask to have the cow examined.
In the meantime keep it isolated.
How to poison kangaroos and wallabies?
—5202.
You might try phospliorised pollard, but
there would be no certainty that the ’roos or
wallabies would touch the baits, because
their objective is the green feed; once they
reach that their attention is concentrated
on it.
Where can I get seed for mangostcens and
sweet-sops? What are the plants like, and
how long do they take to grow? —s36B.
Only variety of mangosteen worui growing
for market is Garcinia mangostana, which
would have to be imported from tue Depart-
ment of Agriculture in Java or Ceylon. The
seed being very perishable requires special
packing for transport. Trees vrow 16 to 20
years before producing fruit. Sweet-sops are
not worth growing as a commercial fruit,
having been supplanted by the cherimoyer.
Seeds of the latter are sparse and the trees
raised therefrom unreliable, consequently
grafted plants are recommended. These are
obtainable from the principal Brisbane nur-
series.
Can water-cress be cultivated in a tub? —
5426.
Not very likely. It does best on the banks
of a running stream, and also grows in fairly
rich, peaty" soil, well drained and with an
abundance of moisture. The seed is rather
difficult to grow, but once established goes
ahead rapidly.
(1) Education qualifications necessary to
enter St. John's Agricultural College, Lis-
more (N.S.W.) ? (2) At what age are pupils
accepted? (3) Length of course? (4) Fees?
—5566.
(1) Pupils should have passed the quali-
fying certificate exam, or have done sixth-
form work for some time. (2) Over 12. (3)
Two to three years. (4) £23 2s. for each of
three terms.
We are a hard-working couple, accustomed
to country life but earning a good living in
the city. Still in the thirties; limited capital.
(1) What prospects of a reasonable living
are there for us in bee-keeping? (2) Flow
many hives could we handle? (3) What
annual income could we expect? (4) Capi-
tal needed? (5) Could a start be made in
a Sydney suburban garden? (6) Alterna-
tively, what district is considered most suit-
able?— 5378.
(1) Good prospect of a reasonable living
if modern methods of management are em-
ployed. There is also ample scope for exten-
sion of the industry. (2) About 200 colonies.
(3) Under good management, in a favorable
locality, the return per colony should average
not less than 355. (4) About £4OO. (5)
Very little could be accomplished beyond keep-
ing a few colonies to gain experience. (6)
Suitable localities are scattered through all
parts of N. S. Wales.
(1) I am erecting a tank\stand, using
old din. bore-casing for legs. If I fill
Ike casing with concrete, is it liable to
retain moisture and corrode the pipes? (2)
Where can I get a book on concrete work?
—5326.
(1) No risk at all, assuming that the
water used is suitable for mixing with con-
crete. (2) The Aust. Cement Manufacturers’
Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney, issues book-
lets on every phase of cement work.
I have a large quantity of oranges and
lemons which are unsaleable. llow can I
preserve the juice in jars until the summer?
—5389.
Squeeze the juice from the fruit and strain
it into a clean saucepan. Place over a
moderate fire, and bring nearly to the boil,
but do not allow it to boil. Keep it at steam-
ing point for half an hour, then pour quickly
into very hot preserving jars which have
been standing in the oven. While still hot
pour into the tops of the jars a little melted
white paraffin wax, procurable from grocers
in 11b. packets. Screw down the jar tops,
and store all in a cool, dark place. If care-
fully done, the juice will last 12 months or
more. Complete sterilisation by heat is
necessary for success.
HINTS FOR TIIE FARM.
“Beady”: When my sheep are not looking
right and are apparently not suliering from
fluke or worms, I dose each grown sheep with
2oz. Epsom salts, dissolved in water, and
24 hours later with a second dose of -Joz.
turps mixed with 2oz. raw linseed oil.
This acts as a splendid tonic and is per-
fectly harmless. For a lamb or hogget three-
quarters of the quantities mentioned is suffi-
cient.
“Dimon”: Always save the hair when a
horse’s tail is pulled; it is handy when a
little extra stuffing is needed in saddles,
horse-collars and cushions. It is also valu-
able as a binder in cement and concrete.
When filling cracks in brick walls or the
dairy floor, chopped horsehair mixed with
the cement will make a good job of it.
“Mulgo”: When securing the ends of net-
ting, fold the wire over a small batten, lAxn.
by Jin.; it can then be pulled straight and
evenly, and fastened to the post with three
nails. This is always secure and easily
removed, and when necessary the wire can
be rolled up and kept in proper shape on
the batten.
“0.W.W.” : If you have no other use for
it, add the buttermilk, after churning, to the
poddy-calf’s ration. Sickly, backward calves
do well on this addition to their fare.
“Tanta-Tyga” : The life of leather traces
can be considerably extended by clamping a
piece of copper (sheet) or galvanised iron
over trace where it works on the hames and
fastening with good copper rivets. Even if
the trace is broken, as long as there is enough
leather left to take the wear it will still
last for years if thus treated. The iron strap
will take the pull.
“Hornby”: Before connecting pipes with
your windmill or other water source you
will save a lot of future trouble from rust
and slime if you give them an inside coat
of asphalt. Any local council will let you
have broken stuff. Melt it in an oil-drum;
place a box under each end of the pipe to be
treated, having one end a little higher than
the other. While you pour the stuff in have
an assistant slowly turn the pipe with a
pair of pincers. A coating of asphalt will
adhere to the iron, and when dry will be
as though it were a part of the pipe itself.
Foreign matter will not cling to it as to
iron, but will wash along with the water.
“E.H.M.”: When prices are low, French
beans can be kept fresh for a couple of weeks if
placed in a shallow pit, sprinkled with water
and covered with a layer of straw and soil.
“W.D.8.”: When about to drench a cow
and you have no drenching bit, give this
method a trial. Place the animal in the
strongest bail you have and leg-rope her;
next, pass another leg-rope through her
mouth, loop over the nose, and so tie the
end to the top of the bail as to have her
head pointing upward. The drench can then
be easily administered through the side of
the mouth from a bottle: S f rawberry will
get every atom of it and will not injure
herself in her attempts to resist.
“C. 411.” : A blowlamp is handy on the farm,
especially to shift nuts that have rusted on
to bolts. A simple one can be made with a
carbide generator, a couple of feet of rubber
tubing and a single carbide-burner. Insert
the burner in one end of the tubing and
attach the other end to the generator. Turn
the water on full and you will have a blow-
lamp that will do the job. If you have no
generator, one can be made with two cocoa-
tins (a -Jib. and a 11b.) and a 21b. treacle-
tin. Fit the smaller cocoa-tin inside the
larger one, and you have your carbide' con-
tainer. Fit the cocoa-tins inside the treacle-
tin, and fill the treacle-tin with water. Then
solder a thin piece of copper-piping through
the lid of the treacle-tin and into the top-
most cocoa-tin. Punch an air-hole in the lid of
the treacle-tin —and you have your generator.
“Bullswool” : Knowing that grain and offal
prices won’t keep at their- present low level
many commercial poultry-farmers are stor-
ing tons of feed in tanks; the trade is turn-
ing out containers very cheaply. Instead
of a tap there is a screwed-in bung, from
which supplies can be drawn. The tops arc
sealed when filled and erected on ordinary
stands.
“Go Do”: “Alf Alpha” (B. 19/8/’3l)
suggests swedes in a rotation with cauli-
flowers or cabbages—a great mistake. Swedes
exhaust the soil; then they belong to the
Crucifer family, like cauliflowers, etc. The
most serious diseases of this group are soil-
borne and can be transmitted to all members
of the family. I would suggest as the best
rotation over four years: cauliflowers, melons,
broad b a ans or peas, potatoes, celery, beans
and cauliflowers. The two legume crops can be
ploughed in to increase the humus content of
the soil. And I have yet to see a dairyman
that would be interested in the residue of a
cauli. crop. Apart from the fact that only
the oldest and hardest leaves are left on the
plant, there is always a danger of the cows
being poisoned by spray or dust at the base
of the bottom leaves.
One of the ticklish problems in connection
with preparing tobacco for market is the
curing. Patent kiln-drying is favored, but
even that has its drawbacks, including the
risks of fire, the tainting of leaves w r ifh flue
gases, and the trouble necessary to maintain
the right temperature. Vic.’s State EleeFri-
city Commission recently installed an elec-
tric kiln at Wangaratta. and trials are
most encouraging. Very little attention is
needed in maintaining a level temperature,
the aroma of the dried leaf is notably deli-
cate. co’or is attractive and grade uniform.
“Benhow”: For driving a tree against its
Jean only I said “bury tbe saw at the back
and enter a w r edge before cutting the front
scarf” : the front scarf in this case is in the
straining back of a leaning tree. Bet “Bad
Australian” chop into that first and he will
not be able to get the saw in for the back
scarf, but will get all the “tear-up” and “kick”
that will warn him never to try it again. In
B. 22/7/’3l “R.A.” says: “As the cut nears
completion a little intelligent manipulation
of wedges will enable the wmrkman to throw’
the tree exactly where he pleases.” It won’t.
Tim front and back scarfs guide the tree.
The vigilant Queensland Department of
Agriculture points out a slip in a par. (B.
2R/8/’3l) stating that a cotton-grower near
Gattorr has “averaged 24721 b. per acre from
3J acres, worth at current prices, £129 per
acre.” It should have been £129 altogether.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth (19), Sydney, wants job on farm or orchard.
—5594.
Plantation manager, life exp. with copra, kapok,
etc., recruiter and trader, desires engagement. Wild-
est and remotest locality in ex-German territory
preferred. Can undertake repairs to boats, sails,
engines, etc. —5622.
Young compositor and linotype operator, Brisbane,
wants position in printing office, Q’land or N.S.W.
country town, or Islands. —5610.
Young Norwegian baker, milker, ploughman, wants
work. Refs. —5565.
Pensioner wants employment, clerical or caretaker.
Refs. —5544.
Man (25), Vic., wants work on wheat farm. Seven
years’ exp. in Mallee. Refs. —5552.
Engineer (21), apprenticed N.S.W., wants position
on station. Refs.—s4B2.
Sydney typist wants MS. to c0py. —5487.
To buy book on plaiting and fancy knots. —5511.
To buy novels by Margaret Irwin. —5549.
To buy classical orchestral music, symphonies,
rhapsodies, symphonic poems, concertos or standard
overtures, also Grave’s Musical Dictionary.—ss46.
Information Sought.
(1) Can sugar be produced from wood?
(2) What is ilie process? (3) Any parti-
cular sort of timber used? (4) Uses of the
product? —s4Bo.
(1) Yes. A process was evolved in Germany
during the Great War when it became neces-
sary to produce “ersatz” sugar. (.2) The wood
is thoroughly dried and then treated with
concentrated hydrochloric acid—a very tech-
nical process known as hydrolisation. (3)
As far as experiments have shown any sort
of timber will do, the sugar produced being
about 65 p.c. of the weight of the dried wood
used. (4) Mostly used for cattle food.
Briquettes are made from the refuse, _ and
there is also a 4 p.c. residue of acetic acid.
(1) When should the masse shot in bil-
liards be attempted? (2) How is it done?
—5473.
(1) It is very useful when one has to
make a cannon in which the two object
balls are in a line with the striker’s ball,
all being close together and no cushion being
conveniently available. (2) The cue is held
with the tip coming down on the ball, the
butt pointed towards the ceiling at an angle
of about 70 degrees, the direction being to-
wards the extreme edge, left or right, as the
case requires, of the first object ball. The
cue ball is struck with a “pinching” stroke
at a point about a quarter from the top. If
properly struck, the ball will come round
in a curve towards the first object ball, con-
tact with which will rob it of all but the
forward motion, and will roil Or make the
cannon. Don’t hit hard.
What are the meanings of the following
names in the Rubaiyat of Omar; (1) Jam-
shyd, (2) Pehlevi, (3) Kaikobad, (4) Kaik-
hosru, (5) Rustit/m, (6) Haitim Tai, (7)
Parwin , (8) Mushtara? (9) What is the
meaning of the line, “Jesus on the ground
suspires ” ? —5237.
(1) An early Persian king, said to have
reigned 700 years. His seven-ringed cup was
typical of the seven heavens, .seven seas,
seven planets, etc. (2) The old vernacular
language of Persia. (3) and (4) More or
less mythical Persian monarchs. (5) The
Hercules of Persia. (6) A well-known type
of Oriental generosity; a sort of Lucullus.
(7) The Pleiades. (8) Jupiter. (9) The
spring in Persia, with flowers bursting into
bloom everywhere. According to the Per-
sians the healing power of Jesus resided in
his breath.
Who named Mollelsland ( Q. ), and after
whom? —49o7.
It was so named by Captain Jeffreys, of
ff.M. brig Kangaroo, when on his way to
Ceylon from Sydney with a detachment of
the 73rd Regiment in April. 1815. The
46th Regiment, under command of Lieutenant-
Colonel Molle, had relieved the 73rd Regi-
ment and its commander was also Lieut.-Gov.
I have been approached by the inventors
to market a shackle for motor-cars, a tractor
plough and power lift and a carburetter. (1)
Is there a demand for any of them? (2)
Does the price paid for a patent depend on
the economy in manufacture of the article,
value to the public or just sheer haggling?
(3) Could I get an estimation of the value
from, an Australian or English consulting
engineer? (4) Would it be better to
approach the local factories or to go direct
to the headquarters? (5) Any precautions?
(6) Do you consider I have a sporting
chance ?,—5358.
(1) Cannot .say. Demand for any article
depends on public appreciation, which is
always problematical. (2) All three. (3)
Not reliable estimation. Value from manu-
facturer's viewpoint may depend on circum-
stances with which a consulting engineer
may not be conversant. (4) Approach local
factories first to obtain opinion as to pos-
sible commercial value. (5) Be sure that
• . ve been obtained in countries in
* s P r °P° s ed to submit the inventions
and. that other prior patents will not be
infringed. (6) For you to decide; we do
not advise regarding speculations,
n -I Brief biographical details of the late
David Graham Phillips? (2) How did he
meet his death? (3) Is it true that he was
'V. because he depicted a friend’s sister in
ms novel “Susan Lenox”? —s427.
, jHe was an American journalist who
wrved on Cincinnati and New York news-
laE an< ? w rote extensively for the “Satur-
f'a,y,Evening Post.” At the time of his
'tenth he had published 17 novels, a plav and
n lion-fictional book. He left in manuscript
six novels. (2) In the latter months of
1910 lie received a series of threatening let-
ters, charging that he had maligned certain
persons in “The Fashionable Adventures of
Joshua Craig” and other books. On Jan.
23, 1911, a young man suddenly rushed up,
tired six shots at him and then took his own
life. Phillips, died the next day. The assas-
sin was a musician, a maniac, whose papers
showed that he had been planning the murder
for seyeral months. His sole motive seems
to have been the fancied grievance that the
novelist had insulted his family. (3) No.
“Susan Lenox” was not published until after
Phillips’s death.
(1) When was water-hyacinth declared a
noxious weed in JSI.S.W.t. (2) Reason? —
5132.
(1) It was included in a list of prohibited
plants under the Federal Quarantine Act of
1909. Under a Local Government Act
(N.S.W.) in 1919 it was declared noxious
in 18 shires and 8 municipalities. Previous
to this it had been declared a noxious plant
by the Kyogle shire. (2) It has proved a
most troublesome pest on the northern rivers,
its profuse and rapid growth blocking many
of the waterways and rendering navigation
difficult or impossible. In addiuon. it has
affected the farm supply of water in many
cases, making water in lagoons, small creeks,
etc., unfit for drinking purposes.
(11 Some particulars of “Rolf Boldre-
wood’s” life? (2) Is it true that parts of
“Robbery Under Arms ” are founded on
fact? (3) What other hooks did the author
verity? (1) Wacre obtainable? —5492.
(1) “Rolf Boldrewood” (T. A. Brown)
was born in London Aug. 6, 1826, and
brought to Sydney four years later. He
was educated at the Sydney College. At 18
he became a squatter in Vic. Beaten by
droughts in middle-age, he entered the civil
service as a goldfields commissioner and
P.M., and then began writing. He died in
Melbourne on March 11, 1915. (2) He in-
corporated many generally-true tales. (3)
“The Miner’s Right,” “Ups and Downs”
and “Old Melbourne Memories” are the best
known, but he published a novel each year
from 1890 to 1906. (4) Try Angus and
Robertson.
I have been experimenting with etching on
zinc plates with a quarter-strength solution
of nitric acid, and the plate has become pock-
marked with acid through the wax ground,
the design being spoiled. What should I
do about it? —ssBB.
You might try scraping it down with a
bayonet scraper, and finishing it off .with
charcoal dipped in water, or snakestone. In
future put a thicker ground on the plate, be
sure to paint out with stopping-out varnish
or Japan black all of the plate that is not
to be bitten by the acid, and for zinc try a
solution of one in seyen or eight and bite it
very slowly. You w'ould find copper much
easier to handle.
How to prepare canvas so as to render
it suitable for oil painting? —ss93.
Get a good heavy-grained unbleached linen
and mount it with glue to a piece of three-
or four-ply. When dry give it a coat of
sizing, and later another coat composed of
palette scrapings. Make sure that these are
not lumpy, and they will give it a pleasant
grey tone comfortable to work on. Three-ply
can be prepared for painting without canvas
in exactly the same way.
(1) What effect has resistance, inductance
and capacity on an alternating current? (2)
What effect has frequency on inductance and
capacity? (3) Comprehensive book on alter-
nating current? —ss92.
(1) Inductance causes the current to lag
behind the applied voitage, whereas capacity
produces a leading current. When the effects
of capacity completely balance those of in-
ductance, the current and voltage are both
in phase or in step. In an alternating cur-
rent circuit containing resistance only, the
current is in phase with the voltage, the
resistance tending only to limit the flow of cur-
rent. (2) Current flowing through an induc-
tance decreases as the frequency is increased,
but it increases with the frequency in a cir-
cuit containing capacity. (3) “Alternating
Current,” by Kemp, 255.
(1) What was the real name of (a) Marie
Corelli, (b) Sarah Grand, (c) John Oliver
Hobbes, (d) Pierre Loti, (e) Max ORell,
(i) Max Nordau, (g) George Sand, (ii)
John Strange Winter. (2 ) Is there any case
on record of a male writer talcing a female
pseudonym?— ss7s.
(1) (a) Eva Mackay, (5) Mrs. McFall,
(c) Mrs. Craigie, ( d ) Julien Viand, (e)
Paul Blouet, (/) Simon Sudfield, ( g ) Mme.
Dudevant, (h) Mrs. Stannard. (2) “Fiona
Macleod” (William Sharp).
(1) How many paper marks had been
issued by Germany at the height of the infla-
tion period? (2) How was it possible to
re-establish a gold-based currency? (3) Does
Germany balance her budgets? —ss77.
(1) In December, 1923, the issue
amounted to 496,507,424,771,973,774.000
paper marks. (2) By various measures,
including stringent governmental economy,
vigorous collection of taxes and suspension of
interest on loans. All national. State and muni-
cipal loan bonds, war and pre-war, were
“re-valued,” being cut down to 5 p. c . of their
face value in the case of old holders and
to 24 p.c. in the case of new holders. Mort-
gage debts and debts on railway and shipping
undertakings were cut down to 25 p.c. and
industrial bonds to 15 p.c. (3) Not since
1914, deficits being met by foreign borrow-
ings.
My De Soto coupe has done 17.000 miles
and the radiator is very rusty inside. How
can I clean it?— s4sB.
Remove the radiator from the car and
suspend it upside down, M a convenient
height .from the ground. Insert a water
hose in what is normally the bottom outlet
pipe in the radiator. Remove the radiator
cap and allow as much water to flow through
the radiator as it will pass without overflow-
ing at the hose connection. At the same
time tap the radiator core smartly with a
wooden mallet over the face of which has
been stretched two or three thicknesses of
rubber. The hammering should be gradually
be spread over the whole face of the core,
and a badly rusted radiator may require
from half to one hour’s treatment. This will
■ remove rust, but not scale and mineral
deposits caused by using certain kinds of
water.
In 1929 a co. made a profit sufficient to
declare a div. on ordinary shares of 8 p.c.
in addition to the div. maturing on cum. pref.
shares. Neither of these dividends was
paid. In 1930 the usual cum. pref. share
div. automatically fell due. The co. has
liquid assets (they were tied up hut are
shortly maturing) which ivill partly allow
payment of the deferred dividends. Should
the 1930 cum. pref. div. be given priority
over the 1929 ord. share div.? —5556.
Holders of cum. pref. shares have priority
over holders of ordinary shares. The defer-
ring of payment does not affect that right.
(1) ,Total debts of the Commonwealth, of
the States and N. S. Wales to internal and
external creditors? (2) Population of the
Commonwealth and N.5.W.? —5423.
(1) At June 31 last —Commonwealth:
maturing in Australia, £214,124,021; in
London, £157,438,806; in New York,
£17,155,718; total. £3BB 718 545. All States :
in Australia, £342,744 883; in London,
£394,105,816; in New York, £30,435,673;
total, £767 336,372. N. S. Wales: in Aus-
tralia, £109.644 68S : in London, £164 361,244 ;
in New York. £13,825,624 ; total, ±2:87,831.556.
(2) At March 31 last—Commonwealth,
6,488,707; N.S.W., 2,504,536.
How to make yeast for medicinal pur-
poses?—s39s.
Take eight pinches of loose hops, place in
saucepan, add one quart of water, bring to
the boil, and boil for 10 minutes. Strain
white-hot on to 10 tablespoons brown sugar,
then add enough cold water to three-parts;
fill eight ordinary beer bottles. Cork and
tie down tightly, and it will be ready for
use in three days.
Can a minor make a will or provide in any
other way for the disposition of property or
cash ?- —5462.
He cannot make a valid will, and save in
a few instances, such as a settlement in con-
templation of marriage, cannot convey his
property to another person.
How to make fly-paper? —ss29.
Take half-pint boiled lins-'ed-oil, lib. resin.
Melt together, and add cup honey. Soak the
papers in a strong solution of alum, and dry
before applying the mixture.
Particulars regarding the next big-game
hunting party to Arnhem Land to be arranged,
by the Commonwealth Railways?— s4oo.
It will probably be between July and Sep-
tember, 1932. It will consist of a party of
not more than six, and cost £l3O a head;
duration, five weeks.
Has any estimate been made as to the
amount of British and foreign capital in-
vested in Australia? If so, what is the
amount ? —5307.
Dr. Roland Wilson, in a contribution to
the “Economic Record,” May, 1931, esti-
mated the cumulated capital imports to
1929-30 as £755,686,000.
My concrete house, standing on low-lying
ground, is very damp. Walls were built with
damp courses, but since sewerage and street
construction have been carried out, the damp
seems worse. Amy cure? —5347.
Give the outer walls a coating of a very
strong solution of common yellow soap and
hot water, applied hot. When dry, paint on
a very strong solution of alum and water.
Apply this smoothly in one direction, taking
orre tbyt it does not form bubbles on the
soap coating.
now Co prepare lye from wood ashes and
how to make soap with it? —5374.
Mix together half a kerosene tin of clean
wood ashes, which should have been sifted,
21b. lime and 61b. washing soda. Boil all
in a kerosene tin of rainwater for one hour.
Allow to stand all night, covered with bags
to keep the heat in, and strain it next morn-
ing. Add to the strained liquid 71b. clarified
fat, free from salt, 5 tablespoons borax, 3
tablespoons kerosene and lib. resin. Boil
these together for three hours, stirring con-
stantly, as it easily boils over. Pour into
a wetted mould, and when cold cut into bars
and store for a month before using.
I have made a tennis net of twine. What
dressing is required before using? —s42B.
It may be dyed with any ordinary dye.
When coloring is completed, allow it to dry,
then plunge the net into a warm bath made
of lib. shredded soap to lgal. water. Dip it
well, and hang up to drain. When the water
has run off, plunge it into an alum bath
made from lib. alum to lgal. water. Allow
it to soak for 3 hours, then hang up to dry.
If coloring is not required alum-bath treat-
ment alone will make it weather-proof.
Values of the principal imports and exports
of Norfolk Island?— s3oo.
For 1929-30, imports: Motor vehicles,
£5676; apparel and drapery, £4257; hard-
ware, £3877; groceries, £3735; building
material, £2409; benzine £2170; furniture,
£2155; butter, £1623. Other smaller items
to a total of £46,776. Exports amounted to
£32,255, principal item being 25,707 cases of
bananas.
Method of treating phlox, Michaelmas
daisies and delphiniums to get the best
flowers next year? —s6oo.
Divide the phlox and Michaelmas daisy
clumps and plant the strong young shoots
in soil containing a quantity of sand, leaf-
mould and rotted cow manure. Place strong
stakes in position when planting out. The
delphinium crowns should be nourished by
mixing super, and rotted manure round
them ; don’t cover with soil. Attend to all
three perennials as soon as possible before
the warm weather sets in.
What is the best method of raising dahlia
green plants? I have a glasshouse and have
the clumps stored there in sand at present.
A few are starting to shoot. —5406.
Sprout, the tubers, cut off the new wood
to a joint and place them in sand in a
conservatory or glass frame. Keep the
plants well watered and the slips will root
very quickly. If the plants are hardened off
they should be ready to plant out early in
October.
Brief Answers.
H.T.: This Department has no politics....
K. : “Who’s Who in Filmland, 1931,” Dymocks,
424 George-street, Sydney, 6s C. 8.: Where the
applicant for copyright is the assignee from the author
he must forward assignment and attested copy
W.T.: From Permanent Secretary, Treasury, Whitehall,
London, 5.W.1.... M.F.: See the Canadian Govern-
ment Trade Commissioner, 90 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne C.S.L.: “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon
L. Idriess, Angus and Robertson, 5s A.W.: A
consolidated new certificate of title can be issued in
lieu of two or more old titles, if the land can be
conveniently shown in one certificate. Fee is 2s. 6d.
for each title consolidated... .F.R.: It does not free
you from payment'of interest... .J.G.: Electrolytic
Refining Co., 25 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .P.M.D.:
“List of N.S.W. Aboriginal Place Names and their
Meanings,” by W. W. Thorpe, 6d., obtainable most
booksellers G.P.: 100 to 1 8.W.G.: Christie,
Manson and Woods (“Christies”), 8 King-street, St.
James’s-square, London, S.W.I. Their commission
is I 2 J p.c J.E.W.: Write to General Motors,
Carrington-road, Marrickville; Simplex Baltic
Machinery Co., 608 Harris-street; Alfa Laval Separa-
tor Co., 120 Sussex-street; W. H. Paling and Co.,
338 George-street; Vacuum Oil Co., Margaret-street;
all Sydney... .V.J.: (1) Tunney was never defeated
for the championship; have no record of occasions
when he shed tears. (2) Both about equal....
R. :It was said by Rousseau, and in English reads,
“It is the path of the passions which has led me
to philosophy” —.C.S.H.: The New Settlers’ League
is subsidised jointly by the Commonwealth and State
Governments, £l5OO p.a A.D.: Yes, they publish
a quarterly, the “Sociological Review,” price 55.,
obtainable from the society, 65 Belgrave-road, London,
S. .. .E.W.: The composition subjects for Higher
Standard English at the February, 1932, Sydney Uni.
matric. exam, are Shakspeare’s “Richard II.” and
“Selected Modern English Essays,” pages 77-240
(Oxford Uni. Press, “World’s Classics” edition)....
G. : Can’t say. The theory that blood reactions
of man and ape are identical was given forth by
Professor Hill Tout.... J.H.P.: Barnard Elder -
shaw’s “A House Is Built” or “Green Memory,”
Dailey’s “Only the Morning,” Palmer’s “The Pass
age,” and Richardson’s “The Getting of Wisdom.”
. ...E.C.: Debt is not barred by Statute of Limita
tions, but after such a lapse of time you should not
pay it without further information and inquiry. Get a
full statement from the solicitor, then submit it with
your own account of the transaction to the Pro-
thonotary, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
with a request for advice as to payment.... Kedron:
Under normal conditions and in the case of a first
mortgage a reduction from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. would
be fair. It is suggested that the rate fixed by legis-
lation should be 5 p.c L.D.: The Eastern Trading
Co., Melbourne, deals in fancy goods with China
and Japan. It has no British North Borneo con-
nections... .W.R.: Try “The Guider,” 25 Bucking-
ham Palace-road, London, S.W.I. Payment is 15s.
per 1000 words... .M.R.: Write to the Assistant
Paymaster-General, Supreme Court Pay Office, London.
E.L.: (1) Yes. (2) Land tax, £2,755,626;
income tax, £13,600,276. (3) and (4) Information
not available... .W.M.: (1) R. J. White and Co.,
32 Jamieson-street, Sydney. (2) Ironbark, grey
gum, grey box, biackbutt, woollybutt, tallow-wood,
turpentine, stringybark, spotted gum, brush box,
white or red mahogany. (3) One lot Bft. x Bin. x
6in.; one lot Bft. x 9in. x Sin. (4) This is a
matter with the contractor. (5) Varies, depending
on species and location, but minima fixed under
Forestry Regulations are ironbark, 2s. 3d.; tallow-
wood, 25.; other hardwoods, Is. 3d. per 100 super,
feet. .. .L.J.B;: (1) You might call a meeting of
your creditors and test them with a view of carry-
ing on. (2) By presenting a petition to the Court
accompanied by a declaration as to inability to pay
and an affidavit. Official of the Court would assist.
(3) Fees are small. (4) An assignment of your estate
to trustees for the benefit of creditors is ah act of in-
solvency. The consent of your creditors is not required.
. ...D.D.: Dymocks... .T.D.: Consult the Instructor
in Agriculture, Agriculture Department, Townsville...
F.H.: Baikaloff’s “Land of Communist Dictatorship,”
Brasol’s “Balance-sheet of Sovietism,” Chessin’s
“Darkness from the East,” Laski’s “Communism,”
Mond’s “Why Socialism Must Fail,” Shadwell’s
“Breakdown of Socialism” and “Communist Move-
ment,” Spargo’s “Greatest Failure in All History.”
... .Enquirer: We don’t know... .V.M.: Designs for
church lace appear only occasionally in women’s
magazines, and are difficult to procure. Try Monica
Moors, 164 Pitt-street, or the Australian Board of
Missions, 242 Pitt-street —both Sydney... .J.J.T.:
Write B.H. Prop., 28 O’Connell-street... .E.J.8.: No
vacant farms on the Doonside Settlement, but there
are two at the Bankstown Settlement; particulars
Under-Sec., Department of Lands, Sydney. Area,
5 acres to 7 acres, and they are equipped with build-
ings, etc., to accommodate approximately 600 birds,
also a four-roomed cottage. The capital stated
should do. It would take two years to
work up a full stock... .E.A.A.: Write Com-
missioner for Forests, Perth... .G.S.C.: Con-
tagious abortion in cattle is not identical with
gonorrhoea in humans... .J.J.A.: She cannot be pre-
vented from making a will, but if at her death the
Commonwealth should put in a claim as a preferen-
tial creditor the claim, if good, would be met out
of the assets... .A.J.M.: Your common-law rights to
the air are set aside by the Wireless Telegraphy
Act, which gives the Postmaster-General full power
to charge a license fee... .A.R.: The price of tin
at Herberton (Q.) on August 10 was £7l per
ton on an average assay of 70 p.c. Can’t advise as
to charges without knowing all circumstances....
A.McP.: Not available... .H.D.C.: Nothing known
about it in Australia... .D.C.M.: Etchers —(1)
Fairly well known; (2) big reputation. Painters —
(1) Not important. (2) and (3) Unknown
E.S.D.: In N.S.W. land may be sold by the Public
Trustee if rates are seven years overdue. A claim
for rates takes precedence of a mortgage... .M.E.K.:
Can’t diagnose on information supplied. Consult a
vet W.F.8.: Get in touch with Chief Vet. Officer,
Melbourne. ..-M.C.: Apply for certificate of title and
an account. If he refuses you could place the matter
in the hands of a solicitor, though as between parent
and child an amicable settlement would be prefer-
able Jass: If a landowner interferes with the
natural features of his land in such a way as to
divert his swamp water to the end of a formed road-
way he is open to an action for damage. You could
erect an embankment against the inflow of water
other than normal surface water, and the council
could be asked to take action... .11.L.J.: A will
speaks from the death of the testator, and the widow
is entitled to any property left. The children, if
inadequately maintained, could make application to
the Court under the Testators’ Family Maintenance
Act to have provision made for them out of the
estate R.M.K.: Difference in English and Aus-
tralian price is accounted for by customs duty of
30 per cent. ; exchange, over 30 per cent.'; primage
duty, 10 per cent.; freight, landing and other charges,
which raise the price practically 100 per cent
H. : So far. as trustees know, there is no stone in
Cantei-bury Cathedral to the memory of Walter
and Eliza Ha 11... . (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
By J.J. HARDIE
CHAPTER XXIII ( Continued).
MONTHS of iron discipline in the Cadet
Battalion were a nightmare to Craig
and Walker. They were the only King’s
Colonials assigned to this particular school,
and the pair became inseparable. They had
fought together, they were two Australians
among hundreds of Englishmen, and they'
had much in common besides. But the
partnership was broken when Ken was com-
missioned to an English battalion in the
south of England, while Walker found him-
self down on the East Coast. The two men
separated at a smoky, dust-grimed railway
junction, with the excessive casualness of
their kind that betrayed the regret they felt.
“Listen, Craigie!” Walker’s long form
bent through the carriage window as the
whistle shrilled. “We’re sure to be bunged
back to France right away. Don’t know how
you feel, but I’m still hankering for the feel
of a horse between my knees, so I’m going
to the Big Smoke right away. I might find
someone useful there. Cheerio!”
A few weeks later Ken received a bulky
envelope, with a short note pinned to a
bundle of army forms:
“ Craigie, my lad, — I’ve got the dinkum
oil. Fitl in the enclosed forms and see that
your adjutant puts them through. He
'won’t like it, but quote the enclosed copy of
orders, and, he’ll have no option. Then, sit
back on your hind legs and grease your
saddle. If all goes well we’re going to the
Indian Cavalry, where neither Fritz nor
Jocko do corrupt, nor pip-squeaks break
through and squeal.—Au reservoir, Walker.”
Ken lit his pipe and did some hard think-
ing. Supposing he did get into the Indian
Army—lndia was a long way from Kilmar-
nock. But again, if he did not go to India,
he would most certainly go to France, and
France just then was a decidedly unhealthy
place for “the p.b. infantry.” He decided to
put in his. application, then go north and
get married. Ailsa still puzzled him by her
strange reluctance, but now he made up his
mind there would be no more argument—
and no more secrecy.
Before the veteran porter had commenced
to intone “Kilmar-r-nock,” Ken sighted the
slim, graceful figure of Ailsa on the plat-
form. And before the train had come to a
standstill, she was in his arms. After nearly
four years of war, people had become hard-
ened to these scenes, and. in any case neither
the man nor the girl cared a tuppeny damn
if they were observed by half the popula-
tion of Scotland with all the pipers thrown in.
“Ken, you look splendid!”
He certainly was changed. The intensive
training of the Cadet Battalion had straight-
ened, to a certain extent, the old, easy-
going slouch, while the well-cut uniform
showed to advantage the lines of the tall,
athletic figure that the rough old khaki had
merely camouflaged. ) ■
He grinned happily at the radiant girl
“I’ve noticed that girls would rather be
squeezed by a Sam Browne than a bandolier.”
“Oh, so you’ve been experimenting?”
“No! Only looking on!”
“I don’t believe you!” Then, anxiously:
“How long have you got, Ken?”
“Don’t know, Ailsa! It’s embarkation
leave. Might be a week—might get a
month.”
“Oh, how lovely! I feel like turning
cartwheels from here to the subway.”
She glanced quickly at her wrist-watch.
“Come on, Lazybones! Our train goes in
five minutes.”
“What train? Aren’t we there?”
“Heavens, Ken, didn’t I tell you? * We’re
living in Arran for the summer months. I
came across yesterday to pilot you back. It’s
a beautiful place—mountains and heather-
just a bit of the Highlands with the sea. all
round. But it’ll be terribly quiet—would
you rather stay here, or in Glasgow?”
He grinned down at the wistful expression
on her face. “Lead on, Macduff! I have
wanted to see your mountains and heather
since I came to Scotland, only.you wouldn’t
let me!”
CHAPTER XXV.
From the sheltered bay overhung by
mighty hills they climbed steadily > for
nearly an hour up a rough, country road,
lined with fragrant hedges and “dry stane
dykes.” Ailsa strode easily along, turning
occasionally to laugh teasingly at Ken, bur-
dened with British Warm and haversack.
Where the road turned sharply round the
crest of a hill she 'scrambled to the top of
a loose stone dyke.
“Come here, Ken! Isn’t the view won-
derful?”
The man dropped his impedimenta in the
roadway, and grinned critically. “Bonzer!
Best pair of legs I’ve seen! Great idea, these
short skirts! No more buying a pig in a
poke!”
Ailsa laughed roguishly, and threatened
him with a lump of rock. “You idiot! Come
up here and see a bit of the real Scotland!”
She seated herself on top of the wall. An
arm slipped round her waist, and a head
leaned gently against her shoulder. Far
below them, the steamer had left the tiny
pier in the sweeping bay, its white wake
spreading fanwise behind. The sea was
calm as a millpond, reflecting the sombre
majesty of the towering peak across the bay.
He followed Ailsa’s slim finger. “That
big mountain with the clouds round its
head is Goatfell—remember we saw it fi’om
Troon?” The arm tightened round her in
remembrance. “That’s Glen Rosa running
between Goatfell and that other chain of
mountains. They look near, but that’s the
mountain air, and within the next week or
two I’m going to drag you all oyer them.
Come on; mother will be thinking we’ve
eloped!”
“She has good cause,” he grinned, as he
lifted her easily from the wall and held her
in his arms a brief moment before setting
her on her feet. ;
Ken rose early, and slipped quietly out
of the quaint thatched cottage, up the hill
that rose steeply behind. The grass gave
way to heather, and the clean morning air
stimulated till he felt he wanted to run—
to stretch all his muscles to their fullest
extent. Panting, he reached the summit and
threw himself full length on the little clear-
ing among the heal her.
There was a stillness over the place, such
as the man had never before experienced.
It placed a spell on him—a feeling of
deep reverence. Mechanically, he fumbled
in his pocket for his pipe; then, as if the
act were sacrilege, he returned it shame-
facedly. Miles away on the hillside spread
a flock of sheep, mere white dots, yet in the
still, pure air he heard their faint “Ba-aa”
carrying over the crystal ether. He felt like
some ancient mythological deity resting a.
moment on this lofty pinnacle to gaze,
chuckling philosophically, on the atom called
Man—on the sense of importance with which
this molecule invested himself, his strutting
and parading.
Power, wealth. What were they? What
did they avail? There was a something
about this place—something big and un-
nameable—that stripped off the tinsel, the
artificialities, and left.the man conscious of
This is a picture of the man wno wrote
“Paradise Plumes,” one of the most gripping
serials The Bulletin ever printed, and the
author of “Alien Corn,” another Papuan tale
which will begin to tell itself in this paper
on September 23. Nobody knows Papua
better than Mr. Turnbull: for many years
past he has been its Government Architect.
Compared with “Paradise Plumes,” the new
yarn, though set in Papua, has less to do
with the native and more to do with the
white man’s reactions to “colored” environ-
ment. It is an unashamed love story, with
difficulties presenting themselves which could
hardly have been met anywhere else in the
world.
the nearness of a. Power hitherto vaguely
realised, and half-ashamedly effaced. Reluc-
tantly he rose arid with a final look stepped
down through, the knee-deep heather with
long, swinging strides towards the thin
pencil of smoke far below that heralded
breakfast—and Ailsa.
He was singularly quiet throughout the
meal, and Mrs. Cameron glanced kindly at
him. ■-; ’ ’ ■ . .
“You were out early, Ken. I didn’t hear
you leave.”
He nodded quietly. “I climbed the hill
to have a look round
“What do you think of our Highlands?”
He hesitated, as if at a loss for words,-;
but when he spoke, the sincerity of the grey
eyes carried the conviction he struggled to
express.
“It’s wonderful, Mrs. Cameron! It makes
you feel—well—a man who could do a rotten
thing in this country would rob an orphan.
It explains a lot of things—about Scotchmen.
I used to feel that bagpipes sounded best on
the pictures; but now I think I understand.”
The rosy-cheeked woman nodded quiet
comprehension. She rose from the table,
and returned with a bulky letter which she
handed quietly to Ken.
“I think this is for you, Ken. A
friend of lan’s sent us a lot of his things.
We only got them last week, and this was
among them.”
She turned quietly away, and a silence
fell on the little group.
Ailsa, her face almost drained of color,
stared furtively—anxiously—at the man,
rigid in his chair, staring at the letter.
That handwriting! He had seen it only
once before. What bad news could it bring
now? Mechanically he read the super-
scription slowly again.
He glanced at Ailsa. Her eyes turned
quickly away, a flush mounting high on her
cheeks as if she had been caught eaves-
dropping. With a . sudden air of decision
the strong brown fingers tightened over the
unopened letter as if to tear it to ribbons,
when Ailsa thrust out a protesting hand.
“Ken. don’t do that! You .must read it!
Please!”
In amazement he stared at her agitation.
“Why?”
The girl faced him bravely, forcing a
smile. “No, I don’t know what’s in it! I’ve
got some work to do now. No, you can’t
help. I’ll meet you up on Dun Dhu in
about an hour.”
For a moment he hesitated, then: “Right-
oh, Ailsa,” he nodded quietly, and passed
slowly through the open doorway.
A cool fragrant breeze from the sea,
blended with the tang of the heather, played
gently on the motionless figure of the man
seated in the stillness that was not of earth
—high up on Dun Dhu, the Black Hill. A
clenched fist grasped half a dozen crumpled
sheets as he stared with unseeing eyes over
the wild panorama of hill and glen.
The whole thing was incredible! These
things didn’t happen nowadays!
He smoothed the crumpled pages, and
read the letter again. Margaret’s firm hand-
writing told a story that read like sensa-
tional fiction.
In the first place, it was written from
Cattle Camp.
Margaret at Cattle Camp of all places—
living there in a big, roomy homestead built
above the old huts!
Borthwick had gone broke on Corella. He
had bought cows on a rising market, had
heavily overstocked the place, and two sea-
sons of drought had settled him. He had
used up his relief country, and had waited
too long for the rain that never came and
till it was impossible to move his impover-
ished cattle. And so they died—like flies.
Corella was dotted with their bare, dried
carcases—in thousands. A monument to
the cupidity—and stupidity—of one man.
Tom Donaldson was managing Ardwell, and
Peggy was with him, while Jim Armstrong
was at the front. Alan Gordon had con-
ceived the big idea, but had found it too big
for him to execute. Margaret, hearing the
plan, eagerly threw in all her resources, and
the partnership approached Borthwick with
their offer. But they found Borthwick less
amenable than expected—someone else was
in the market.
Ken pictured them—the old, bearded men,
and the straight, slim girl—despondently
leaving the city office, to stare at the
grizzled, bent old scarecrow coming up the
stairs. He could imagine Larry Nolan’s
cynical, belligerent stare at the pair. So he
was the other buyer. Where on earth did
he raise the money? Alan Gordon had
sensed the position immediately, and wisely
laid his cards on the table.
He could see Nolan nervously passing his
tongue over the thin lips, glaring accusingly
at the girl.
“Heard anythin’ of Ken Craig since ye
druv him to th’ war?”
The result of the meeting was the forma-
tion of a strange partnership—the unkempt
old horse-fanatic, the snowy-bearded cattle-
man and the girl.
It was Larry who tackled Borthwick
singly, exacting terms from that hard man of
business that the others had not dreamed
of. The partnership had bought up the
western half of Corella., That included
Cattle Camp and the whole of Ken’s old
territory.
Then Larry Nolan died—as he had lived
—alone, among his beloved horses. He was
buried there, in the shade of a giant coola-
bah, where his restless spirit could watch the
horses trooping to water in the moonlight.
Nolan left a will—and this was the hard-
est part to believe. He had left everything
—his share in Cattle Camp, his own pro-
perty, all his horses, including Eaglehawk
and several thousand pounds in cash—“to
the only man that went out of his way to
do me a good turn, Ken Craig.”
The man stirred restlessly. He was rich!
Yet the fact brought no. thrill. What good
would it do him now? Margaret wrote of
good seasons. The war had boomed cattle
prices beyond their wildest dreams, and
prospects were rosy.
But what he could not get over was that
Margaret was living there—at Cattle Camp!
She had old Alan Gordon as adviser, and
Dusty Rhodes, minus half an arm, and as
blasphemous as ever. Jerry had returned
from the desert to join them. Eaglehawk
had never been ridden since Ken left, and
the magnificent horse lorded it over a
harem in his own free, untrammelled spaces.
The letter was more or less formal,
acquainting him of his changed fortunes,
yet neither presuming on the past nor
hinting at the future. Only at the end the
personal touch crept in. Margaret wrote:
“Ken, —It would be impossible for me to
tell you just how much I regret what I
said on our last meeting. I do not know
whether this may reach you. Scotty wrote
that you had visited his people, so I am
asking him to forward it. When we read
the newspapers we can’t imagine how men
can survive these terrible happenings, but
I pray with all my heart that you may
come safely through. You will find every-
thing ready for you here, and, Ken, I don’t
want you to feel tied down in any way—
as far as Margaret Kennedy is concerned.”
Then the few lines underneath:
“P.S.—From the enclosed cutting you will
learn that my husband has done me the
kindest act of his life.”
He stared at the newspaper paragraph—
at the name of the man who had been
Margaret’s husband. “Mr. R. C. Allen
found dead in bed.... overdose of veronal.
Dick Allen! His own cousin! The rotten,
drunken swine!
The fog of years was scattered. ISo
wonder Margaret
A light step sounded behind him. He
stuffed the letter into his pocket and rose
to face Ailsa. The girl appeared cheerful
as ever, but a closer look showed the red-
rimmed eyes and a hint of nervous strain in
her manner. The man’s face was grim and
set. He took both her hands in his, and
looked searchingly into the upturned face.
When he spoke there was a note in his voice
that Ailsa had never heard before. It offered
no loophole for argument. It was final.
“Ailsa! Is there a parson at that little
stone church we passed yesterday?”
“Ummh.”
“We’re going down now to see how soon
he’ll marry us.”
“Ken, do you mean it?” The sweet face
flooded with happiness; then the color
drained slowly away, leaving an expression
of pale, dogged resolution in its place.
In silence they descended, the hill, skirt-
ing across the glen to join the road far
below the cottage.
Ken rapped at the heavy door of the little
stone manse. As they waited nervously, a
slim hand crept into his, and he turned to
see Ailsa’s pleading face. “Let me ask him.
Ken!” Before he could reply, the door
opened slightly, and a tall, thin woman of
dour aspect gazed inquiringly at the pair.
“Is Mr.—-the minister in?” It was Ailsa
who spoke.
“No, he is at Come to-day. He, will be
back to-morrow. Is it important?”
“Oh—er—no! To-morrow will do, thanks!
Good-bye!”
And Ken found himself back on the road
looking down at Ailsa—the old Ailsa ot
the gay, laughing eyes.
Slowly the hard lines round mouth and
eyes softened. “I’m sorry, Ailsa! I didn’t
mean to be so sudden, but”
She slipped an arm through his and they
moved off down the road. “Just fancy—
only one more day of freedom!” she mocked
gaily. “And the blushing bride has no
trousseau!”
She turned her face, and closed her eyes.
“For what we are about to receive, may—
Oh, Ken!”
He released her, flushed and happy, as a
man with a mixed pack of dogs swung up
the road.
“Hullo, Neil!” she hailed. The dogs
circled round, greeting her as an old friend.
A grizzled, lean staghound sniffed at Ken’s
legs and hand; then, as if satisfied, stood
quietly beside him.
“Ken, this is Mr. Forbes.”
“Neil, when you get home will you tell
mother we’re going across to Goatfell and
may not be home till late?”
“I will, Miss Ailsa!” The bent, spare
form turned his head towards the cloud-
capped summit. “I would not be for . going
right to the top whateffer. I am thinking
the mist will be coming down.”
“Right-oh, Neil! We’ll be careful.”
They swung off down the steep road, hand
in hand, through the little village, and on
to where a brown burn tumbled noisily over
its bouldered bed, up the wide wind-swept
glen towards the mountain towering above.
Moonlight was triumphing over the long
twilight when they arrived back at the cot-
tage, tired and hungry.
A voice called from upstairs: “Is that you,
Ailsa?”
“Yes, Mother! We started to climb Goat-
fell. but we were too late and the mist
beat us.”
“All right, dear. You’ll find supper on
the table. And there’s a telegram for Ken
—I hope it isn’t bad news!”
“For me?”
Ailsa turned up the lamp and pounced on
the orange envelope, “2nd-Lieut. Craig.'
she read slowly, and handed it across.
Ken ripped it open with a puzzled look
on his face While the girl watched him.
suddenly pale. His head rose slowly, and
Ailsa came towards him.
“Ken! What is it?”
He held out the flimsy sheet. “Report
immediately for embarkation.”
The girl choked back the involuntary cry
that rose in her throat.
“Ken! Already!”
He rushed forward and seized the swaying
girl ..
“No!—l’m all right! Let’s go outside.
In silence, they moved round the shoulder
of the hill, the man’s supporting arm tense
round her waist. Then the golden head
dropped wearily on his chest and she burst
into a flood of tears. The strong arms folded
her convulsively sobbing body close to him.
while the man choked back the lump in hi#
own throat.
“Don’t. Ailsa!” he pleaded.
“Oh, Ken! Ken! And I did want to have
you all to myself for a little longer!”
“Ailsa! We’ll go down and find that
parson in the morning. And I’ll be coming
back to you soon.”
The sobbing ceased and slowly the girl
drew herself back. The golden head moved
slowly, sadly from side to side.
“I —don’t—think—so, Ken!”
Ken stared at her
“Ailsa! What’s the matter? Don’t you—
Don’t you love me?”
Slowly the lovely tear-stained face rose
and looked long into his eyes—with a look
that could not be misunderstood. „
“Then why won’t you marry me, Ailsa?
She spoke slowly, as if each word were an
effort.
“Ken—was your letter from—Margaret .
He controlled himself with an effort.


CONVERSION LOAN!
A HUGE SUCCESS/
f
done
l
Motorists now convert
t 0...
r-O
MOTO
atS-
wo
•'SrSs*.
The Spirit that moves the Empire!
C 1.7.33.31
THE C,O MiM ON WIAITH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and-Anglo-Perstsn Oil Co. 1/1.1
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales: DALGETY * CO, LTD.
‘■'Yes!' It was! But what has that got
Ken!—I know! If I mar-
ried you—we would be happy—for a while
_no' Wait till I finish! Ken, ciear! It
would spoil my happiness to know that you
were not happy. So—you are going back
to the girl you really love!”
“Ailsa, what are you talking about r
Listen! Wed! go down now, and get that
parson out of bed!”
A wan smile lit her face, but the head-
shake persisted.
CHAPTER XXVI.
The occupant of the lower bunk rubbed
the sleep from his eyes to stare lazily at
his cabin mate.
“Say! What’s the big idea—getting-
dressed in the middle of the night?”
The man shaving with laborious care
paused between rasping strokes.
“Middle of the night me eye! If you stick
your head out the porthole you’ll bump
Magnetic Island!”
“Holy wars! I had forgotten!” He was
fully awake now, and a note of interest
crept into the lazy voice.
“It’s the big day, Kenneth, me lad! Zero
hour approacheth, and the fair lady sits on
the end of the wharf awaiting the homecom-
ing hero—brandishing a marriage license and
a sheaf of bills.”
“Shut up, you four-flushing poodle-faker!”
“Hullo, been reading my letters again?
You cabled her from Singapore, didn’t you?”
The other paused in his labors. “Ye-es.
Said I was coming by this boat, and sug-
gested a meeting of directors at Townsville
—for to-day.”
“Meeting—of—directors?” The lean,
tanned face on the pillow broke into an
amused laugh, exhibiting an even row of
perfect teeth. “I’ve tried on a few stunts,
but I never went after a girl that way!”
The laughing eyes lingered on the broad
back of the man in front of the mirror.
“Would you care for the loan of a real
razor for this suspicious occasion? I can
guarantee a shave closer than any brother!
Gosh, what have we hit? Is that Towns-
ville that I smell? Phew! The tide is out!”
He heaved his elongated form to the floor,
carelessly invested it in a mauve silk dress-
ing-gown embroidered with huge multi-hued
birds of a species more familiar to mytho-
logy than to ornithology, and disappeared
whistling along the alleyway.
Ken fumbled nervously with the shoulder
strap of his Sam Browne. Having fixed it
to his satisfaction, he picked un, a wide
topee, and hesitated.
“Well, so long, Lanky! See you later!”
“Wait a minute till I inspect you, my lad!
Ummh! And very nice, too! We ,would
appear to be wearing our posh tunic, with all
the nice little ribbons and gadgets. Now,
remember what I told you about shoulder-
chains! She’s certain to get her hair caught
in them! I’ll never forget the day I went
on parade with a pearl earring mixed up in
mine! Come on, I’ll see you off! Got a
clean hanky?”
The two men walked up on deck together,
Walker still sketchily attired in silk pyjamas
and dressing-gown.
When he held out his hand at the top of
the gangway the flippancy had departed
from his voice. Two pairs of eyes met in
the steady gaze of men who had been
through the mill together.
“Cheerio, old son, and the best of luck!”
“Thanks, Lanky! I feel a bit shaky. But
if—if things turn out all right, I want you
to be best man!”
Walker shoved his friend down the gang-
way. _ “I’ll be the best man Townsville ever
saw!” he proclaimed with a return of the
light manner. “You’ll know where to find
me—what’s the name of the pub’, the
Widow’s Arms?”
“Queen’s Hotel! I’ll look in the bar.
And Lanky”—this from half-way down the
gangway.
“Yes?” _
“Keep it quiet, will you? I don’t want
a fuss!”
“Right, my lad. Achcha Kismet!”
Lanky strolled slowly across the deck,
apparently deep in thought, till a startled
exclamation brought him face to face with
a pretty blonde.
“Hullo, Molly! Aren’t we the early bird,
and what a beautiful morning!”
“Heavens, Capt. Walker!” The girl
covered her eyes with one protecting hand
and held him off with the other. “Who on
earth worked out the color scheme? O-oh!
Can such things be!” She crossed to the
rail, and the fair head shook weakly.
The man’s face wore an injured expres-
sion. “I’ll admit the pyjamas are a little
noisy, Molly, but don’t blame me. You see,
we couldn’t go shopping, and they wouldn’t
let the durzi into hospital, so I had to give
my bearer a free hand, and this”—he
gestured towards his lower limbs—“is the
result. He enjoyed himself thoi’oughly.”
Molly Harkncss’s plump shoulders shook
with laughter. Suddenly she demanded:
“Isn’t that Capt. Craig down there? Where’s
he off to at this early hour?”
Walker bent over the rail in mock surprise.
“So it is! Look at him with old Father
Christmas! That must be the father-in-law! ”
A pair of quizzical blue eyes fastened on
the ingenuous countenance.
“But I didn’t know Capt. Craig was mar-
ried?”
“Molly, I want you to come up town and
help me choose a wedding present”’
The blue eyes opened wide. “Do you
mean—for Capt. Craig? To-day-? Heavens,
I must tell Jean!”
The man got a glimpse of a neat pair of
silk-clad legs disappearing through a door-
way. He scratched hfs head thoughtfully;
then a rueful grin overspread the lean face,
and he wandered downstairs to his cabin,
humming lightheartedly.
Ken immediately recognised the old,
bearded figure under the wide hat coming
down the wharf, and the surge of happy
excitement that welled up in him forced
the usually immobile features into a bo josh
grin. The oid man’s eyes searched the still
empty rail of the ship, ignoring the lone
khaki figure. When he was within a few
paces, Ken, struggling hard to keep a solemn
face, drawled the old greeting of the Bush,
“G’day!”
The white beard turned sharply, as if
noting the soldier for the first time.
“Good-day! Can you tell me”—— He
paused, staring fixedly. “Ken!”
The young man and the old met in a
fierce, gripping handshake. Both Were
laughing excitedly, and it was a few minutes
before they con’d speak coherently. Ken's
first question was:
“How is Margaret?”
“Fine, boy. Fine!” He still chuckled
uncontrollably. “Man alive, I hardly knew
you in that rig-out—you look as poor as a
blaekfellow’s dog!”
“That’s nothing—blame the malaria!
Where is Margaret now? Is she with you?”
The beard wagged negatively. “No, she’s
at the hotel. Said she would wait there.
So go ahead, boy—and God bless you both! ”
Ken’s grip tightened on the old man’s
arm, and his voice was tense. “Alan, do
you think she still”
The bright old eyes peered benignly at
the younger man. “I don’t think—l know.
And I would give my soul-case and all my
prospects of the hereafter to be in your
place this minute. You’ll find the buggy
further along. Take it and go for your
life! Our yarn will keep.”
He stood motionless, watching the quickly
disappearing figure, still chuckling into the
big beard with happy excitement.
Ken sat motionless in the jolting cab, his
body bent forward from the waist as if
trying to keep up with the expectant spirit
soaring far ahead. It seemed incredible
that he was going to meet Margaret. Five
years ago he had left the country asking for
oblivion, forgetfulness. For years he had
deliberately repressed all thoughts of her.
Long, interminable years filled with death
and havoc. Years that had seared inefface-
able things on the innermost slab of con-
sciousness. The man who had laughed at
Death had passed through Death’s own
domain while millions had remained. To
his weary soul hope had returned. It was
Ailsa who had re-awakened in him the
Definite Object without which life is a
shallow existence. And with the prize
within her grasp she had sacrificed her love
for the happiness of her lover! The man’s
eyes dimmed with heartfelt gratitude. Even
at that moment the Spirit of Ailsa seemed to
hover oyer him, the lovely eyes suffused
with a tender, ethereal light.
As in a dream he ascended the stairway,
and paused at a door, his heart thumping
wildly—uncontrollably. Feverishly he tore
off the light tropical helmet and mopped his
brow, then hesitantly knocked on the panels.
A pause that seemed age-long; then that
calm, warm voice that had sounded through
his dreams: “Come in!”
He pushed open the door, and, entering
the large, dim room, hesitated a moment.
A tail, slim form rose slowly from a chair.
A beam of sunlight illumined the sweet,
lovely face framed by the rippling waves of
the rich brown hair.
The helmet dropped from his hand un-
noticed to the floor as the man moved for-
ward, silently, both hands outstretched,
towards the wonderful light streaming from
the brown eyes.
As their hands met, a thrill like an, elec-
tric current flashed through their veins:
“Margaret!”
“Ken!”
The simultaneous voices broke the spell
that held them motionless. The brown head
fell forwai’d with a little sigh of happiness on
the man’s shoulder as a pair of strong arms
gathered the girl to him and held her there,
while a wild, triumphant ocean of music
whirled them to its crest and carried them
deliriously onward towards thp shore of
their dreams.
[The End.1


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
People who go racing without making a
business of it welcomed tlie return to Rand-
wick, with its superior class of horses and
its attractive straiglitout and place totes,
which only need the reinforcement of a ss.
doubles machine, as in Perth and Adelaide,
to be completely satisfactory. They had the
additional pleasure on Saturday of seeing
Phar Lap paraded with the colors up. The
chestnut has got over the ailment which
troubled him in the winter and looks in his
prime, as at five years ho should. There is
a natural disposition to over-rate the best
horse of his day, and we should perhaps
not be reading so much about Phar Lap
being “a champion of champions” and “a
greater than Carbine” had lie been foaled
in the same year as Windbag, Heroic and
Spearfelt. or figured in the A.J.C. Derby in
which Manfred gave his opponents (Amounts
among them) half a furlong’s start and a
beating, and, timed from the moment he set
after the field, traversed the mile and a half
in 2min. 29sec. Amounis, who has twice
beaten Phar Lap at w.f.a., was not within
141 b. of Manfred at any distance. Wind-
bag’s Melbourne Cup time was ssec. faster
than Phar Lap’s, and with 101 b. more than
lie had when he conquered Manfred he would
certainly have accounted for the poor lot
that Telford’s horse beat last year. Phar
Lap will find some of this season’s three-
year-olds—Chatham and Ammon Ra especi-
ally—much more formidable opponents than
last year’s lot. Be this as it may, he is a
magnificent specimen of the thoroughbred,
and it is a thousand pities he was gelded.
Reported to have done a swallow-catching
gallop at Warwick Farm, Burracootboo was
nil the rage for the first division of the Tram-
way Handicap, going out at twos. This boom
was welcome to the Pentheus party, who
backed their horse from sixes and fives to
7 to 2, it being 12 to 1 (Gesture and Sir
Chrystoplier) bar two. Old Ming, showing
plenty of pace, led for five furlongs, the two
favorites being in handy positions. Burra-
cootboo ran up second at the entrance to
(lie straight, but fell back just when ho was
OEPT: SAvFETy FIRST IS MV MOTTO,
Gert''
Giert \ U Dont APOLOQISE ; 'M IN no
HuRRy,"
Bert: "She's dose ov/ei? portv,
y'kwow '
■ « , s'*
Ge-rt , wmatt - miles or. vears -
expected to come on, and finished ninth (of
14). Pen the us, on the other hand, dashed
to the front, Pike shooting him up on the
inside, and though Pavilion and Ticino came
with good runs neither troubled Walder’s
brown, who beat the mare by nearly three
lengths, the watch showing lmin. 26jsec.
It was a striking Epsom trial, especially as
Pentheus carried his Epsom weight (9st.),
and the son of Rossendale —Cereica is now
;i solid favorite for that race. Burracootboo
should not be ruled out because of one bad
performance. He is rather awkward in a
field, and like his brother Goshawk will pro-
bably do better in welter races.
The second division of the Tramway Han-
dicap provided much keener betting, it being
4 to 1 Legislator, 5 Waugoola, 6 Cathmar,
7 Holdfast, 8 Lucre and Sunlit Reef, and
10 Sun Eagle. As at Warwick Farm, Hold-
fast and Torn Pinch settled one another by
fighting for the lead; each will be more
worthy of consideration when the. other is
not an opponent. Sun Eagle trailed them
most of the way, and the effort to keep him
near the flying pair did not improve his
chance; however, he came home well, and
was just deprived of third place by Legis-
lator. Both were, however, lengths behind
the second horse, Promptitude (20 to 1),
and he proved no match for Waugoola, who
finished with rare dash for the reinstated
Cook, and cut -4 sec. off Pentheus’s time.
Waugoola carried lib. less than his Epsom
weight, Bst. 61b. He was fourth in last
Epsom, and looks a bit more robust now.
The withdrawal of Chatham and Johnnie
■Tason lightened Ammon Ra’s task in the
Chelmsford Stakes. Chatham has got rid
of his cold, but his preparation was inter-
rupted for a week. Johnnie is giving
liis trainer so much trouble that he may be
an absentee from the spring meetings. This
race also furnished a betting, surprise.
Cypress being backed so enthusiastically that
he threatened Ammon Tin's position as favo-
rite ; in the end it was 6 to 4 Ammon Ra.
5 to 2 Cypress, 7 to 1 Veilmond, 20 to 1
bar three. Like Burracootboo. Cypress had
done a great gallop during the week, and
he had a stone less than Ammon Ra; more-
over, Percival was in the saddle. The West-
ralian made the most of the advantage in
weight, but Cypress could not get far away
from Ammon Ra, and when Johnstone called
on the favorite a few strides sufficed to prove
that Cypress is not in bis class. . Ptolemy,
a stoutly-built bay colt by Moabite —Shep-
herd Princess, came resolutely from the ruck
to finish second, and - though he was two
lengths behind Ammon Ra this Page thought
he was travelling the faster of the pair; he
was certainly going away from Veilmond
(third) and Cypress (fourth). Decidedly
another fellow with a Derby chance. Ammon
Ra ran “nine” in lmin. 52fsec.
Vigne (7 to 1), who promises to be Syd-
ney’s best candidate—among the older horses
at least —for the Caulfield Cup, carried off
the Spring Handicap in fine style. He had
the run of the race, however, being never
further back than third; Spearman (7 to 1)
might have reversed positions with him but
for having been badly placed most of the way
and unable to stretch out freely, so packed
was the field. First Acre (8 to 1) was third,
and was also doing well at the finish; so
were Loquacious and Concentrate. The
Welter Handicap saw Pike on Nut Cup (6
to 1), hitherto an unruly beggar, get a break
on a big field and go on to an easy win.
Phar Lap and Ammon Ra are both in the
] [ill Stakes, to be run at Roselnll on Satur-
day. Perhaps they will not meet, but if they
do the three-year-old may be expected to make
n race of it with the champion, even at a
difference of 121 b.; this Page is by no
means sure that he will turn out a stayer,
but up to a mile and a quarter lie is an
exceptionally good colt. It is not certain
whether Chatham will start in the Rosehill
Guineas; if his experienced trainer decides
that ho is fit to race he should win. Fancies :
Camellia Stakes: Ticino; next, Sir
Duninald.
Hill Stakes: Phar Lap ; next, Ammon Ra.
Rosehill Guineas : Chatham ; next, Ptolemy.
Rosehill Cup: Spearman; next, Soulton.
I-lighweight Handicap: Weotara; next,
Panola.
Moonee Valley races had little bearing on
spring prospects. Waterline did not fulfil
his engagement in the Budgeree Handicap.
Adam Skirving, his trainer, is laid up with
a chill, and the horse is also somewhat amiss.
In his absence, punters declared strongly for
the Launceston Cup hero Darpuna, who, like
Waterline, is a Caulfield Cup fancy. Dar-
puna cut down the pacemaker, Bay of
Islands, three furlongs from home, and
McShortodds had started to indulge in the
usual dolorous patter, “What’s become of the
other horses?” and so forth, when Farlure
and King Mart launched challenges which
put a different complexion on the race. In a
tremendously exciting finish, King’ Mart won
by half a head from the favorite, who was a
similar distance in advance of Farlure.
#•••••
This form does not say much for the
Caulfield Cup prospects of Darpuna, who will
have to meet Farlure on 41b. worse terms.
Farlure is owned and trained by his breeder,
E. J. O’Dwyer, who landed the Toorak Han-
dicap and Caulfield Cup four years ago with
Textile. With only 7.2 to carry, Farlure
must be reckoned with in the big mile and a
half handicap. He defeated Bay of Islands
pointless at Moonee Valley on August 19,
and ten days later Bay of Islands ran away
from a pretty smart field on the same course.
King Mart has been taken out of the Caul-
field Cup. His withdrawal may have been
premature, for nothing could have been finer
than the way in which the Maoriland-bred
gelding finished on Saturday.
Golden Arrow, solidly backed, was among
the also-rans in King Mart’s race. Owned
by Ben Chaffey and Merson Cooper, mem-
bers of the V.A.T.C. committee, he has been
regarded as a rod in pickle for the Caulfield
Cup. Galloping conditions at Moonee Valley
may not have suited the son of Whittier.
The course contains many turns, and Golden
Arrow seemed unable to get properly
balanced. In the autumn he finished a close
fourth in the Newmarket Handicap and
vanquished Brazenface in the Elms Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. The Orleigh Park
stable, which shelters Golden Arrow, landed
the £lOOO steeplechase with little West
Wing, who had to be ridden right out. to
stall off a late challenge from a 33-to-l
chance, Nenad. The rider of Nenad alleged
that his mount had been struck by the whip
of West Wing’s jockey, and lodged a pro-
test, but it was dismissed. Affirm, the favor-
ite, will not race again for many months, if
ever he carries silk again. The old fellow
ibowcd the tendon of his near foreleg, and a
long spell is necessary. In 1927 Affirm ran
third in Textile’s Caulfield Cup.
Spear King, formerly trained by Frank
Musgrave for John Wren, is proving a
money-spinner in the colors of his new
owner and trainer, Steve Murphy. Il'is
win in the Boomerang Hurdle at Moonee
Valley was the Spearhead gelding’s fourth
successive victory. He started a pronounced
favorite, and after being far back in the
field came with an overpowering run to
score by lengths. Spear King is one of the
best hurdlers in training in Melbourne.
Cecil Godby saddled up two supposed good
things, and each came undone. Glideaway
(9 to 4) was third in the Coo-ee Handicap,
for three-year-olds, the winner being Viol
d’A.monr. who scored by a substantial margin
from the fast finishing Herolage, a son of
Heroic. Godby’s Knight’s Favor, by Valais
out of Chivalry, missed in the Nulla Nulla
Welter solely through losing ground at the
start. He gave the field 50 yards’ start in
six furlongs, and even then finished a close
fifth. Running shoes will he needed by
punters who wish to back Knight’s Favor
when he next carries silk.
* * * *
For Mentone on Saturday :-
Mentone Handicap: Dark Man; next,
Farlure.
Welter Handicap: Knight’s Favor; next,
Lord Essex.
* * *
“Town Moor”: The St. Leger. oldest of
the English classics and the closing one of
the season, was run off at Doncaster last
week and was won by a 9-to-l chance,
Sandwich, third to Cameronian and Open
in the Derbv. Sandwich is by Sansovino,
winner of the Derby in 1924. His dam,
Waffles, is by Buckwheat, who was imported
to Australia. Australian horses sharing her
pedigree are Heroic, Carradale and Rampion.
1 *
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The best contest in New South Wales at
the week-end was in Newcastle, where former
lightweight champion of Australia Billy
Jones (10.1) won a narrow decision over
Wally Maher (11.0). The next scrap in
order of importance was between Jimmy
Kelso (9.105) and Bobby Stone (9.12), over
12 rounds, at Leichhardt. Stone’s weighty
wallops were expected to bring him victory,
but Kelso, boxing cleverly, captured every
round.
pArtthraw!
..
Thougli they had done badly m tlie earhei
games against the Provinces, Australian
Rugby Union followers had high hopes for
the success of their team in. the single lest
against the All Blacks at Auckland on Satur-
day. The hopes were dashed, the home side
winning a fast and good game by 20-13, or
2 tries (one converted) and 4 penalty goals
to 3 tries (two converted). The Australian
rearguard showed delightful form in the first
half, the Queensland full-back, Steggall, play-
ing an outstanding game at five-eighth,
The forwards won the hall in the .scrums
and line-outs, but must have been mastered
in the ruck work in the second spell, for all
the Australians’ score was put up in the
first, which they completed in the lead. The
four penalty kicks totalling 12 points by
Bush, the full-back who was here with the
M.L. ’Varsitv side, were a heavy handicap,
The M.L. forwards were a typical All Black
pack, but the inside backs were unsatisfac-
tory. Ball, making his debut under the
Silver Fern, played grandly on the wing.
In their matches to date the tourists have
had 7 penalty goals recorded against them
and have scored one.
* * *
By beating Eastern Suburbs, the minor-
premiership holders, in the challenge final
at Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday, South
Sydney won the Rugby League first-grade
premiership for the tenth time. There was
a big attendance, and the game, though apt
to be a trifle fierce on occasion, justified it,
the winners coming out on top by 12-7 (2
tries and 3 goals to a try and 2 goals). The
finish was full of incident, both sides stand-
ing 7 each with only a few minutes left
to go. It looked like a draw, when Eyers,
the Southerners’ extra back, slipped through
an unguarded opening and scored under the
posts, Williams adding the goal. South Syd-
ney combined excellently back and forward,
but East suffered from uncertain handling
in the back division, though the tricolor van-
guard gave splendid support. As metropoli-
tan premiers, South Sydney will meet Group
Nine, the country combination, at the Agri-
cultural Ground on Saturday for the State
premiership. That will close the official
League season, though Eastern Suburbs will
undertake a short tour of Maoriland.
The Queensland Rugby Union and League
ended their season together in Brisbane on
Saturday. In the Union challenge final be-
tween G.P.S. (Old Boys) and University,
the latter won on time 16-15. The League
premiership was a close thing also, Past
Grammars winning 16-13 from Carlton.
* & #
Melbourne’s weather on Saturday varied
the usual procedure with bright sunshine
until the crowds had swarmed into the foot-
ball grounds; then, about 3.45, it poured
solidly for an hour, and most people wished
they had stayed at home and taken things
for’granted. They might as well, for the
games were merely mud scrambles and re-
sulted as anticipated. Carlton heat St. Kilda
by 66 to 48; Collingwood was too strong
for Melbourne, with 127 to 57, while
Footscray scored 43 to North Melbourne’s
34. As ’Scray had to kick 25 more goals'-
against North to reach ’Wood’s then per-
centage. if soon perceived the impossibility
and gave it best. So the same four as last
vear, Geelong. Richmond, Carlton and Col-
lingwood, go into the finals. Fitzroy unex-
pectedly walloped South Melbourne, 74
points to 44; Hawthorn, as usual, failed
by 3 points against Essendon-—63 to ’Don’s
66; and Geelong proved too fast and sys-
tematic for the Richmond Tigers, scoring
83 to Richmond’s 56. The Seasiders have
been most consistent this season, and if they
can reproduce their form on the Melbourne
ground should win the pennant. But they
don’t always do that.
“Fitzcray”: Once more the suggestion
has been made that the Victorian Football
Association and League—naming them in
the order of seniority—should amalgamate.
Ever since the league broke away from the
association years ago there has been enmity
between the two bodies. Though a more
amiable spirit prevails to-day, the prospects
of a combination are not hopeful. The main
difficulty lies in the fact that each body con-
trols its own grounds—some of the clubs
own theirs —and the financial considerations
attaching would supply many nasty knots to
untangle. Otherwise there is nothing much
but personal feeling to block the way to
amalgamation. The difference in the rules
played by each body is so infinitesimal as
to be undiscoveralile except by experts. Both
are professional bodies paying their players,
so that particular question, which maintains
the rift between the two Rugby codes in
Australia, does not exist.
(Continued on next i>it<je.)
“Stousliette” : The savagery of the young
female of the species was strikingly illus-
trated in Sydney lately, in spite of strenuous
efforts to hush the matter up. The occasion
was tlio meeting of the Victorian and South
Australian basketball teams at the inter-
state carnival held in Sydney. What started
the rough stuff Heaven only knows, but
things got so hot that, several hardened
Rugby League spectators begged shudder-
ingly to bo led from the ground. South Aus-
tralia eventually won by 26 to 22, and after
the game four Victorian casualties were pre-
sented at the Royal Prince Alfred hospital
for repairs.
"Shell”: Australian sculling followers are
taking exception to some criticism of Aus-
tralian Bobby Pearce which recently
appeared in the “Field” over the signature
of Guy Nickalls. Guy was one of the finest
oarsmen and scullers that the ranks of Eng-
lish amateurism have known, and he is a
renowned coach and an acknowledged
authority. Yet when he says that Pearce
is a greatly over-rated sculler, and would
have been "beaten by Brocklebank in the
Diamonds if the wind had been blowing the
other way, it is hard to avoid the impression
that he is talking through his lid. The two
men met in a beat of tne Diamonds, and
Pearce, with nothing to gain by a runaway,
let his opponent finish well up. Bobby’s
performances in Europe, America and.Am-
tralra, in all sorts of weather and m l
sorts of- wat-ei, pi o^ e • beyond all _1 >0 -
doubt that he is the greatest amateur scul e
of liis time—indeed, it is doubtful if there is
any professional in sight who could down
him. ... :S
w ,, . . .. ,7
Bramah[ Lane : A faionte dneisio
with English cricket addicts is selecting
imaginary teams—the Uorld against Mars,
and so on. Someone has recently been try-
ing his hand at a team of Austialias be>
since 1882,. and lie has done ms job well,
His side is: Murdoch (captain), Bards-
ley. Clem Hill, Trumper, Bradman, Gillen,
Noble, Turner, Trumble, Blackham and
Spofforth. The only serious omission is u
left-hand bowler, and I would have picked
Ferris. in place of one of the batsmen,
Either Bardsley or Clem Hill would »■
dropped for the sake ot keeping in the al -
rounders, the batting being formidable enough
without one of them. Hill would be my pick
to stay in on account of las exceptional
fielding,
*
“New Farm”: There w ere alarums and
excursions at Brisbane when the bowls ot
a prominent player w 7 ere challenged by an
opponent and found wanting in the necessary
amount of draw by official tester. This
resulted in the rink led by the player, om
of the oldest and best known of Australian
front-rank bowlers, being disqualified. The
owner is not satisfied with the decision, on
the ground that the Brisbane testing table
is not up to specifications, and is sending his
woods to Melbourne to he tested by the Vic-
torian authorities. They passed the N.S.V •
tester in January, IJoO, being stamped to
that effect, and they also passed on the same
Brisbane table two years ago.
*. ’ ,
. ‘Topping Lift Sydney s open-boat sail-
mg season will begin on September ID when
the Governor will start the first race tor In-
footers off Clark Island. For the first time
for years there will be no new additions to
the fleet, and more than one of the craft will
carry the now fashionable Bermuda rig. Last
.year Arawatta was the only one of the little
chaps to sport the tall mainsail,
* * ~ * , , *
“Third Base”: Australian baseballors are
very bucked at the prospect of an Australian
side leaving for America shortly. A A.S.\\ •
patron of the game is arranging matters and
is willing to pay half the team’s travelling
and housing expenses, relying on an advance
of the balance from a group of prominent
San Francisco men.


FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWA!” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN. £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
/ o’clock
PATENT NOS.
27ZQZ 9 -27271**
*3
»#
I*s
2
mm
M
British Made
FIVE
for
I'd
Of all
dealers
HERE’S THE BLADE YOU
WANT. Seven O’clock —five for
one shilling-and-sixpence ! Better,
sharper, longer lasting than many
that cost more ! If you use a two-
edge safety razor —treat yourself to
a packet of Seven O’clock blades.
Learn what comfort in shaving really
means !
BLADES
For Gillette Razors .
DOUBLE EDGED
Footbrawl
Jack Holmes, the inter-State and inter-
national Rugby League five-eighth, who died
suddenly in Sydney last week in-his 2<th
year, had a steady run of bad luck after his
return from England, injuries having kept
him out of the game for the greater part ol
this season. Then followed an attack ot
appendicitis and an operation too late to
save his life. A sterling personality, he was
very popular in Rugby League circles, and his
untimely end carries an added poignancy
from the fact that he leaves a young wife,
whom he met and married in Yorkshire
during the tour of the Kangaroos.
-f * #
“Glenelg”: The Magarey medal, which is
given each year to the most consistently
able and fair player in the South Austra-
lian Football League, has been awarded this
season to J. Sexton, of West Adelaide Club,
who is also an inter-State rep. Sexton came
home on the bit with 44 votes, the second
man, L. Salis, of Glenelg, scoring 27, one
ahead of S. Ween, of Port Adelaide. The
voting, done by the umpires at the end of
each match, is secret, the closed envelopes in
which each man records his opinion every
Saturday remaining unopened until the final
count in the closing stages of the season.
* * *
“Rover”: Australian football in Sydney is
always a red-blooded game, but this season
it has been ruddier than usual, and the
Bridge City public, used to the scented refine-
ments of the Rugby Union and League, is
inclined to quail at the spectacle. This has
brought protests, one adherent explaining
that it is “the most peaceful code of foot-
ball.” It is a sort of Donnybrook peace, all
the same. The whole trouble lies in the fact
that the umpires are not empowered to send
a foul player off the ground, as is the case
in the Rugby codes. All he can do is to
report him later, and when the case comes up
for hearing an elaborate defence with wit-
nesses duly provided is always ready. Mean-
while the offender remains on the field,
with the result that his opponents too often
seize the opportunity of dealing out justice
themselves, and that leads to further trouble.
* * * *
“Mayblossom”: Some of the Victorian
League football clubs are wishing they hadn’t.
Some time ago. the so-called “Coulter Laws”
were adopted with the idea of regulating
the shameless traffic by the Melbourne clubs
in promising country players and desirable
members of other clubs. One of the regula-
tions laid it down that “travelling expenses”
could be paid to country players figuring in
metropolitan teams only with the permission
of the League finance committee. The other
day some nark put it that Richmond was
bringing down players, paying them all ex-
penses, and boarding and lodging them over
the week-end as well. Then more revela-
tions were made, with the result that several
others of the big clubs will be carpeted and
asked to explain.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Japanese racqueteers to
tour Australia are Harada, acclaimed by
Tilden as the world’s fourth best player a
couple of years ago, but possibly a little
past his bestJiroh Sato, another front-
ranker, who has beaten Henri Cochet; and
Inouye, a youngster who is being hailed as
a certainty for the next Nipponese Davis
Cup side and is already rated No. 2 in his
own country. Harada is a hard-hitting, dash-
ing volleyer, with a good deal of the Borotra
temperament in his make-up, and has wins
over Tilden, Cochet and Lacoste to his credit.
All three are forcing players on both fore-
and backhand, and can be counted on to
shake up the best we have in Australia, in
spite of Norman Brookes’s recent pronounce-
ment that Australian tennis is now nearly
back to the standard which he and Anthony
Wilding set.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Japanese will nlay their
first match in Brisbane asrainst Queensland
and will then come on to Sydney. There they
are to tackle an Australian side and so to
Melbourne, where another “Test” is to be
played. Following on that the Nipponese will
take part in the Australian championships
at Adelaide in January ami will nlav a third
match with Australia at Pevth. From PerCi,
the team will go to India, and possibly
South Africa, finishing up with an entrv for
the next Davis Cup tourney. Maoriland
asked for a visit from the tourists but it
has been found impossible to fit it in.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Coulsdon”: Scots have a theory that no
good golfer can be produced on an easy
links. Spence, Australia’s new professional
champion, rather upsets it. He comes from
Leura, which is almost as easy as it is sceni-
cally beautiful. The first nine holes wind
through wide avenues of trees, and have
lush, smooth fairways and never a bunker
that a 24-handicap man couldn’t be sure of
escaping from in one. The second nine,
which were only opened a few years ago,
skirt gorgeous valleys, and are trickier on
the whole, but they also are easy relatively
to any second nine of a leading Sydney links.
Yet Spence made Kensington, which presents
as many formidable obstacles as any course
in Australia, look simple when he warmed
up on Thursday afternoon. D. G. Soutar,
of Moore Park, is another great exponent
who plays most of his games on a links
which the Rose Bay handicapper once de-
s< ribed cryptically to a “Sun” interviewer as
“quite all right for practice purposes.”
* * * *
“Hickory’’: Of the designing of new golf
clubs there is no end. The very latest, from
America, of course, is a driver with a spirit-
level set in the head. This is alleged to
assist the player, when addressing the ball,
to prove that the sole of the club is flat on
the ground, thus ensuring a proper swing.
The thing should be popular with golfers
after lunch, when true accuracy is not always
attainable, but it will have its drawbacks in
prohibition America, where the maintenance
of the spirit in the level presents a problem.
“Cosmos”: Moore Park has so many
Japanese golfers that they were able to
stage a match against local players recently.
But the Nipponese, despite fine physique
and bull-dog gameness, ’ don’t shine at golf,
or at any other world sport, tennis excepted.
The Caucasian is still ahead in the sport-
ing field. Millions of Chinese play Soccer,
at home, in Malaya and elsewhere, but
a Chinese Test XI wouldn’t have a show
against, say, Czechoslovakia. I never
heard of an Indian who was a champ,
at anything but cricket and hockey, iior of
a Pacific Islander who could do anything but
swim. The negro confines himself largely
to boxing and running. Australia’s humble
Binghi is the world’s greatest all-rounder.
Abos. have the same genius for cricket as
West Indians and Indians. They are natural
horsemen, though Australia never saw a
horse till the white men arrived. There have
been many abo. boxers of class, and they
shine where they are given half a chance at
tennis, golf (one little lady who must be
almost a pure-blooded native plays regularly
and well at Moore Park), swimming and
football. There is nothing finicking about
most of them, which is where they score as
sportsmen. I saw an abo. golfer operating
on a country links once with no heavier bat-
tery than an iron and a putter, and he
did creditable rounds.
An important country tourney is the annual
meeting of the Orange (N.S.W.) club, which
takes place this year on October 3 and 4.
being the ninth of the series. Events will
include the Patron’s Cup, 36 holes Bogey
from scratch, the holder being C. H. Fawcett,
of Royal Sydney; the Neville Howse Cup
for continuous competition, 36 holes from
scratch, held by S. A. Keane, of Cammeray,
and over half a dozen others. All members of
recognised golf clubs are eligible, and entries
close with the hon. sec. at Orange on Sep-
tember 30.
% :J: * *
The Australian Golf Union has taken the
vexed question of uniform handicapping in
hand, and has appointed a sub-committee to
consider the matter, with the recommenda-
tion that the State associations adont the par
system. The committee consists of Messrs.
Padfield, Whitton, Russell, Jones and Nettle-
fold, and as a basis of uniform handicap-
ping has fixed the following: Ivo Whitton,
2 from par; J. Ferrier, 3; H. L. Williams,
3: L. Nettlefold, 3: Legh Winser, 4; J.
Radcliffe, 5, the half-dozen representing all
the States save Wcstralia.
Car and Cycle
“Blah”: The cables made a great fuss the
other day about a wonderful “secret” dis-
covery by a Russian scientist who has in-
vented a car to run on charcoal gas. Char-
coal or other producer gas has been used
for years by British and Continental makers,
though chiefly for driving heavy motor-
trucks, and specimens of these have often
been seen in Australia. In N.S.W. W. Hart,
of Tamworth, has invented a charcoal gas-
generator which he has fitted to an old Ford
in which he has been able to hit up a speed
of 50 m.p.h. at a cost of 4d. per 100 miles.
The gas is generated by playing steam from
a boiler on red-hot charcoal, the amount of
water required being about a gallon for each
100 miles covered.
% # 3 #
“Emu Park”: As to Australian beaches
suitable for speed motoring (B. 9/9/’3l),
let me advance the claims of Yeppoon, a
seaside resort near Rockhampton, in Central
Queensland. The beach has often been used
for motor-cycle events, and Benv.Goodson, the
champion cyclist of other days, called the
attention of Wizard Smith and Don Hark-
ness to it when they were in Brisbane show-
ing the car with which they are to make an
attempt on the world’s record in Maoriland.
At last advices the pair were to inspect the
beach, for both are desirous of locating one
in Australia on which really high speeds
are possible.
* * * *
“T.T.”: Stuart M. Williams and Dave
Brewster, the Australian motor-cyclists who
went to England to compete in the Inter-
national Tourist Trophy races, are back in
Sydney. Although they did not secure a win,
Williams scored a fourth in the Belgian
Grand Prix. He led for a considerable dis-
tance, and then lost a lot of ground with
engine trouble.
:}: :Jc :Jc
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman’s victory
in the punishing Paris-to-Brest-and-back
cycle race was no fluke, for the Victorian
went out a hot favorite. The race is a
straight-out go. in which everything is left
to the individual; trainers and masseurs
are not provided. Oppy has done some excep-
tional long-distance rides of this kind, one
being the 24-hour race in France for the
80l d’Or, which he Avon in 1928. His Aus-
tralian performances include 416 miles on
the road unpaced in 24 hours, the Svdney-
Melbourne run (571 miles) in 39hr. 42min.,
and the Dunlop Grand Prlx in 1927, when he
covered 6901 miles in 40hr. 41min. 34sec.
riding time, and won over £4OO. It is worth
noting that the last Paris-Brest race —it is
held only once in 10 years—was won by
Louis Mottiat, a Frenchman, who took nearly
six hours longer than the Australian to do
the trip.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: The meeting of the Aus-
tralian Board of Control in Sydney dealt
largely with the financial aspects of the
coming season. Admission prices for State
matches will be Is. for the ground with
another Is. for the reserve, both plus tax; and
for the Tests against South Africa, Is. 6d.
for the ground with lid. extra for the stands,
also plus tax. This is a big drop on last
season’s price of 2s. 6d. plus Is. 6d. Test
players will get £25 a match instead of £3O,
and the daily allowance for players away
from their own States will be 255. instead
of 30s. Train fares and sleepers will be pro-
vided, but players will have to house them-
selves. Umpires’ and scorers’ fees have been
proportionately cut.
* * * £
“Aigburth”: Somewhat obscured by the
threatened Bradman tragedy is the cabled
announcement that E. A. McDonald has
signed up to play with Bacup, the Lan-
cashire League Club which lured Arthur
Richardson from South Australia. He may
figure occasionally in the Lancashire side, but
is not likely to play regularly for the county
again. During eight years of county cricket
the Tasmanian took 998 wickets for an
average of 20.43 runs, and his figures would
have been much better but for the fact that
last season lie was handicapped by a very bad
strain. League cricket will not be new to
Mac, for he first left Australia under con-
tract to play with one of the Lancashire
Lg92U6 clubs.
* * * *
There is a type of U.S. “sportsman” who
has always been notorious for sharp prac-
tices. The lid has gone on his record in this
respect in connection with the speed-boat
race for the Harmsworth Cup, competed
for at Detroit. Kaye Don, the Eng-
lish entrant, competed with a boat which
holds the world’s record, and won the first
heat in hollow fashion. Americans had
two boats entered and, realising that neither
had any hope, one Wood arranged to cross
the starting line before the fixed time. Seeing
him do this, Don followed, and, of course, was
disqualified. So was Wood, but he had
gained his objective in eliminating Don and
allowing the second American craft a walk-
over. The authorities at first declared it “no
race” but yielded to pressure and awarded
the race to the second American after
another walkover, the craft hitting up only
60.1872 m.p.h., compared with Don’s 89.918
m.p.h. in the first heat. It is one of the most
discreditable incidents known in international
sport, and the only redeeming feature of it
is the whole-souled condemnation of Wood
by the press.
“Splash”: An attempt is being made by
some misguided enthusiasts to lure Andrew
Charlton to Sydney again in an endeavor
to qualify for the Olympic team for Los
Angeles next year. Apart from the fact that
he has been living in the country, far from
competitive swimming, for some time, and
that he has also passed through a very
severe bout of rheumatic fever, there is no
reason to suppose that the lad is anything
like the swimmer of some years ago. Indeed
in his last public appearances in Sydney
Charlton showed that he was far from the
form which placed him for a brief period
among the world’s best.


n
“A Few Stitches
<2? They ’re On. '
ď
s
/
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat Distinctive and Fadeless.
fd
Actual Size
Style No, 6
«The Price* are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz.s/-,; 3 doz. 3/6
Soldi by Leading Draper*.
Write for Name Style Circular to
* rt i /> a <-*ur Australian
J. Ct J. CAoH Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if . stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(a Iso at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. -Full board
10/6 per day, 6£>./-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
' teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write tor
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
» H
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
CRITERION: HAY FEVER
(Commencing’ Saturday).
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
DEAREST ENEMY.
COMEDY THEATRE:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a teaman needs to know,
"^Tnc
V^TOAfe
\&myl
uticiiri
Aucui^
fSOAP-i
MEDICINAL
futicura
V»O»MtMtNT
Cutieura
Preparations
Cutieura Soap T fragrant and pure,
to cleanse and purify, Cutieura
Ointment —antiseptic and healing,
to remove pimples, rashes and irrita-
tions which mar the beauty of the skin,
and finally Cutieura Talcum— so
smooth and pure, to impart a pleasing
fragrance to the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3<L
Sample each free.
Address : R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
The only rivals to the State lottery and
the tax-collector are Gilbert and Sullivan.
These old-established showmen are turning
money away, and from dewy morn on matinee
days the early-door queue stretches outside
Her Majesty’s away down Pitt-street. But
the other Pirates can show greater hauls.
Outside the Savings Bank (where old
depositors’ money is still frozen stiff) crowds
gather every day and all day. Even children
are in the groups. Sydney has gone quite
mad. .
Every day one hears harrowing tales of
hardship among old depositors. People who
had put the savings of a lifetime in the insti-
tution that had the whole State’s backing
are flow seeking the dole, only to be rebuffed
in some cases with the cruel tale that, having
means’ they cannot claim the indulgence of
the State which has so cruelly betrayed
them. This probably accounts for the fren-
zied cries for relief that have been adver-
tised during the week. Here is one who
will take £4lO cash for a £5BO book —about
16s. 4d. iu the £. A few want more; but
most of these desperate liard-ups will grab
at 15s. or less.
George Macartliur-Onslow, who died in
his prime on Saturday, was a collateral of
the immense English family which was founded
by the son-in-law of a Lord Mayor of London
at the end of the seventeenth century. Cap-
tain Onslow, R.N., the dead soldier’s father,
founded the Australian branch by marrying
Elizabeth Macarthur, heiress to the Camden
Park estates. He was descended from Arthur
Poo ley Onslow, whose forebears were, mostly
soldiers, sailors and parsons. Brigadier-
General Macarthur-Onslow ran true to type,
though he was essentially a large, friendly Aus-
tralian who had more of the farmer than the
brass-hat in his make-up. ITe was intensely
proud of his family’s military traditions, and,
though home-service jobs were offered to him
in all directions when the World War began,
he rejected them with scorn. He meant to
fight, and he was on his way to me front
before the end of ’l4. Though he was Eng-
lish on his father’s side, and though he had
been educated in England, he rarely went
there; in fact, he seldom left Camden, where
he lived, worked and served on truly feudal
lines. His last trip was made.in 1926 with
his wife, who was one of the Manar Gordons,
and a school-girl daughter. One of the few
disappointments of his full and happy life
was that he had no son.
A friend of the Norman Lindsays had a
letter last week from Mrs. Norman. It
gives an intimate picture of the wonderfully
capable woman that may astonish people
who don’t know the Lindsays very well. She
wrote between Honolulu and Vancouver:—•
I feel that I. liave been at sea for years. I’m so
homesick that I’ve had a mad desire to hide at every
port until I’d missed the ship, so that I might have
ah excuse to catch the first boat home. It was a
great mistake—we should .have brought the kids.
Norman has got (for him) quite fat. He was
interviewed at Honolulu on the state of affairs in
N. S. Wales. He nearly fainted the next day on
seeing the result. Just now he is reeling at the
prospect of having to meet the wireless men who
are trying to trap him for a talk over the air.
Boor Norman—he so hates to be disobliging 1 And
then his wife has to rush to the rescue with her
heaviest V foot. How I wish I were through with it
all, and booked for a non-stop run home to Spring-
wood !
The golfing girls of N. S. Wales followed
the Australian championship matches in
crowds last week. They represent a type of
their own —sturdier than most of the surfing
sirens, and with none of the fiuffiness of the
jazzing, cocktail-drinking maiden. They don’t
run to slim ankles or waists, as a rule, but
most of them were there or thereabouts when
the bright eyes and complexions were being
dealt out. Odette Lefebvre, who won the
State championship last month from her
pal Joan Hammond (and who beat Joan
again on Friday), seems to be the most gener-
ally admired of the lasses in the forefront of
the game. She is a superb physical specimen,
as well as a very pretty girl, who smacks
the ball incredible distances, and gives an
odd impression of eager tirelessness. Her
father is a French woolman on the North
Shore. Miss Hammond is graceful and
attractive on smaller lines. Another out-
standing personality is Dr. Bettington’s
cheery wife. She looks the personification of
sophisticated efficiency. Young though she is
she has the hard-bitten poise of a veteran,
and her lightest words are listeneu to with
reverence by her sister-gowfers. But then
she was a Lowry, of M.L., and she has mar-
ried into a family whose members play
games well from the time thev learn to
walk.
A clever woman who has had more than
her share of trouble and yet faces the world
with shining eyes once said to this Letter:
“Of course, I’m always gay. Only happy
people can afford to be sad.” And now that
Sydney is hedged with problems over which
the face of dull Care grins starkly, its
amateur actors have as though bv secret
signal decided to banish the introspective
Central-Europeati play and rive their audi-
ences comedy. Last week the Playbox put
on the inspiringly-named “Ready Milhous” ;
Harold Watch, at the Savoy, directed NX ode-
house's “Good . Morning, Bill” : and at St.
James’s Jimmy Hatton launched the Players
Club in. “A Hundred Years Old.” And every-
body looked happy going home. But, dt
course, as soon as we, are all prosperous
again some highbrow will discover that. to
be merry is to be Philistine; and gloom will
settle over the intellectual theatre.
Harry Osborne has just had the most
daunting motor accident of his career —and
he served in the M.T. Corps during the war.
He was driving some friends near his station,
Currandooley, when the car skidded in the
snow. It turned .over a couple of times, but
no one was seriously hurt except Jim Gordon,
a near neighbor. His head had to undergo
extensive repairs.
The United Service Institution blossomed
out last week into festivities in honor of
Captaiu H. J. Feahes, who has been
appointed captain in charge of naval estab-
lishments in Sydney. Mrs. Feakes, who sup-
ported her sea lord, wore a graceful frock
of mushroom-pink lace complete with its own
little coat. Major-General Bruche, as pre-
sident, bade the guests welcome in the
beflagged assembly room, with its book-
upholstered walls. In this act Mrs. Bruche
supported her husband, and was frocked in
flounced blue moire. Lieut. Frederick
Daniell, who for ten years has been secretary,
was among the joy-spreaders. Mrs. Daniell,
too, was notable among the well dressed; her
choice, pastel-toned moire. Among the good-
lookers were Mrs. David Lindsay, in black
lace, and Mrs. A. E. Fowler, in a smart frock
of white and black satin. There were about
a hundred dancers, Army, Navy and Air
Force being all represented.
Margaret Fairfax, pretty and slim and
fair, is one of the best advertisements for
the Girl Guide uniform this Letter has seem
Margaret is a Guider, and takes her job
very earnestly,
and, although
just past the
school - girl
stage, isn’t
afraid of the
serious things
of life. Last
week, backing
up the efforts
of her mother
for the Hous-
ing Fund,
Margaret ap-
peared in the
prologue to
Hector Mac-
Quarrie’s lec-
ture, and be-
fore that she
was on a com-
mittee work-
ing for the
Blind Institu-
tion. She is
an amateur actress of talent, and has
figured in the big charity productions
organised by ex-Justice Alexander Gordon’s
lady. Margaret is the daughter of the Wil-
fred Fairfaxes, of Point Piper, and Falk
made this picture of her.
Attendances at the wild-flower show in the
Blaxland Galleries last week were a record.
But that was no more than the quality of
the exhibits required. There was never a
year within the memory of the oldest ranger
when wild flowers were so fine; waratab and
wild rose, boronia and rock-lily, bottle brush
and spider-flower join in alleluias for the
protection given them these last three years.
Even the wild things grown in chains are
extra-glorious. Nobody ever saw such rock
lilies. There’s a tenuis court at Arcadia,
perching above Berowra Creek, completely
surrounded at this moment by these great
creamy orchids.
The Aero Club Ball topped off last week
with the jazz cap of merriment. Over 600
dancers were unleashed at the Wentworth,
and the place might have been an aero-
drome, tlie atmosphere echoed so with the
names of aviators. That Puck of Australia
11. F. Broadbent hung out the sign of the
crocodile at his table. The beast lay sun-
ning itself across a map of the Continent.
Slim Mrs. Hughes and her Geoffrey, who is
the club’s president, were important people
and entertained the official party. Chiffons
as fresh as field flowers clothed Mrs. Hughes.
Mrs. John Terry aired roseate laces, and
Mrs. Les Holden’s frock wedded black and
primrose lace. Follett, Hammond, Chateau,
King and Arnott were a few of the well-
known flying names among the hosts. Mid-
way through the rejoicings, Captain Hughes
presented to Mr. Broadbent a miniature map.
of Australia on a silver base, the route of
the record flight marked in saver.
Wonderful what the wiry littlest Aus-
tralian born and brought up out in the mulga
can go through. On a Monday morning this
month an infant of four, Tommy Shields,
wandered off from tlie home out beyond I van-
hoe, and the last mother saw of him lie was
chasing an emu. But, Tommy being born
a bush man, a little thing like that did not
worry mother ; it wasn’t till well on into
the morning that she grew anxious. Then
the alarm was raised, and soon the thick
scrub of Karwon station was being searched.
But it was a terrible job; and, though 20
blacks from Carowra mission station joined
in, it wasn’t till Saturday that Tommy was
found. The body of Tommy, you say? Not
a bit of it —four-year-old Tommy himself,
very weak, but still toddling, and begging
the searchers to “Take me to mummy—l’ve
been through the mallee!” He was then 45
miles from home ! .
No fewer than seven women within this
Letter’s knowledge are preparing to stand
for Parliament as Independents. One of
them is Mrs. Ruby Duncan, seen in this
Rene Pardon
picture, who
for more than
a decade has
busied herself
with women’s
move ments.
She will con-
test Lane
Cove, and her
speeches
should, be
worth listen-
ing to. Being
a woman, she
has an instinc-
tive craving to
balance the
budget, and in
addition to her
sex urge in
this direction
her long years
of work in
c o n n e ction
with the Housewives’ ' Association have
shown her how imperative a part this is of
every household, State or private. Mrs.
Duncan is a member of the United Associa-
tions and the Feminist Club, and she founded
the live little Girls’ Progressive Club.
“Shore” Hospital, by the way, has just
gained a research laboratory, mainly: through
the £5OOO gift of Mrs. Rolling, the woman-
half of that quaint old American Quaker
couple who made a tidy fortune out of deal-
ing in machinery. As ; they .hadn’t the small-
est idea of how to spend it on themselves,
numerous philanthropies are now the gain-
ers. The nurses have also at last, gone into
possession of their long-promised new
quarters.
The recital given by Ruth Ladd and
Eleanor Ross, an irresistible combination,
drew a charmed audience to the small hall
of the Conservatorium. Miss Ladd is a
soprano with a fine voice and a nice taste.
The result was that songs like “My Lovely
Celia,” “Mary of Allendale” and “The Linden
Tree” were in a bill that also included
Schubert, Strauss and Kactunaninoff. Eleanor
Ross, of the flexible voice, fluid tone and
impeccable diction, opened with George Cal-
deron’s play “The Lamp,” and went on from
one success to another.,
Last week the aristocratic candelabra in
the Town Ilall vestibule trembled with indig-
nation when it heard the uproar that assailed
the efforts of Miss Preston Stanley, Mrs.
Edith Glanville and Mrs. Eleanor Glencross to
tell the world about the evils of Communism.
Interjections from the Red sisterhood were
sharp and fierce, and one fiery lady had her
sentiments extinguished by a man’s overcoat
deftly flung over her head. She struggled
like a suppressed geyser. Other ladies were
swept into the argument and gave their for
or against Communism with finger-nails and
handbags. Then the police took a hand, and
escorted three of the gentler sex to the door
and then to the Central police station, all
with a frenzied chorus of boo-hoos and
cheers. After which the meeting beefed
out the National Anthem with all the vigor
and enthusiasm of the Buff Orpington
rooster who has seen his enemy, the Rhode
Island Red. crawl away through a hole in
the back fence.
Norman Brookes and his wife, much
photographed and paragraphed, passed south-
ward on their way home last week. The
Sierra, which brought them from Honolulu,
met rough weather between Maoriland and
Sydney; still the tennis-player, his wife and
daughter Cynthia seemed at top form, and
reported the best of holidays.
A cold shiver played castanets along the
committee-woman’s spine when a personage
said that workers for the cause must be care-
ful to sell tickets only to those of good repute,
as a repetition of a certain Artists’ Ball
was not desired. The occasion was a meet-
ing of the Gilbert and Sullivan ball organ-
isers, and —well, liow can you divide the
sheep from the goats? Would one ask for
a reference from an archbishop in exchange
for the ticket? Anyway the ball threatens
to be October’s big success. Dalwood Horn*'
for Babies will benefit.
Sydney Inky Wayfarers of the earliest
years of the century will remember clever
Constance Clyde, ' who “did” “Sundry
Shows” for The Bulletin, besides break-
ing into verse and short stories. From
Sydney Constance went to London, where
she made her living by her pen; for the past
few years she has been on the staff of the
Auckland “Star,” to which she is still
attached. Constance .Clyde (real name,
McAdam) is back in Sydney (literally frozen
out of Maoriland—she’s in search of sun-
shine), and one of the first visits she made
was to the Henry Lawson memorial. She
had known Henry as a young man, “hand-
some and effeminate-looking, but not mag-
netic.” In those days a great meeting-place
of the artistic was the home of the Nelson
Illingworths; their rooms had just the right
atmosphere—no suggestion of the salon
about them. “To me,” said Miss Clyde, “a
salon always suggests a woman sitting on
a chaise longue with her legs gracefully
crossed while six men hover around. [Pause.]
Six men to one woman is, I think, five too
many.” The children of Victor Daley stand
out in her memory as delightful youngsters,
and she remembers once being gathered up
by the poet to go down to the wharves in a
hurry—his son had decided to go to sea,
and Victor was giving him a kitten to take
on his first voyage. Of child welfare and all
feminist movements Miss Clyde has for years
made an intimate study, and Australia’s
laws on the first she believes to be better
than Maoriland’s, in spite of much ballyhoo
to the contrary.
“Their mother >vas greatly surprised to hear
....that they had been staying at Govern-
ment House, Canberra, as the guests of the
Governor-General and Lady Isaacs, for she
fancied them .safe at school.” Thus an
evening paper. Now, what strange savagery
is practised in the Governor-General’s, house-
hold? Or is it just one of those things that
might have been put better?
OVERHEARD.
He: “Was Tim’s father one of the leisured class?’’
She : “Oh, no, the dole wasn’t invented in his
time.’’
Brisbane has a chirp:—
There was a party at the YAV.C.A. rooms for
Mayoress Greene, Dr. Georgina Sweet, Mrs. G'umbrae
Stewart and Freda Bagc, of the Women’s College.
Mrs. W. H. Barnes welcomed the guests and gave
the Mayoress a bunch of crimson roses. African
daisies were handed to Dr. Sweet.
There was also a dance for the benefit of the
Y.W.C.A. holiday homes. Mrs. George Barter, in
black lace, and Mrs. 11. Lahey, in ebony mariette,
were hostesses.
St. John’s Girl Guides had a dance in All Saints’
Hall under pastel green streamers, with the Guide
trefoil on the platform to -background bridge tables.
At St. Paul’s, Ipswich, William F. Hunt married
E}sie Rankin. The bride was in, ivory mariette and
her veil was worn with an orange-blossom cap.
Tambourine Mountain, C.W.A. had a reception for
Mrs. Fairfax. Mrs. A. Bayne presented a bouquet,
and all the members brought. posies. There was
also a presentation and Mrs. 1 Fairfax gave an address.
The wild-flower show held in the Albert Ilall was
well attended. A very fine exhibit came from Spring-
brook, and Tambourine Mountain sent some beautiful
specimens.
The Uni. had its dance in the Main Hall, which
was decked with palms and jade and orange streamers.
Dr. and Mrs. A. J. Boyd, Canon and Mrs. Barret,
Noel Chandler and Margaret Julius were there.
The Bowlers’ Ball in the City Hall had palms
and red, green and blue-shaded lights for its back-
ground. Mayor and Mayoress Greene were there,
accompanied by Mrs. A. E. Moore, in cyclamen lace.
Mrs. E. J. Shaw presented her with red roses. Mrs.
Greene, who was in black mariette, was handed
daffodils and roses by Mrs. George Rees, who wore
black silk lace. Other dancers were Mrs. E. J.
Shaw, in black cobweb lace; Mrs. H. S. Hill (M.L.),
in black mariette; Mrs. Wm. Bull (Sydney), in
capuchin mariette; Mrs. Scott (Sydney), in black
satin; Mrs. J. Wall (Sydney), in delphinium-blue;
Dorothy Chapman, in spring green; Nancy Wall, in
peach blossom; Zillah Larcombe, in moonlight-blue;
and Waveny Brown, in rose pink.
Toowoomba had beautiful weather for the meeting
at Clifford Park, where the Turf Club’s races were
well patronised; tea was served by St. Vincent’s
Hospital committee. Mrs. Spencer Roberts was in
rose tweed with black hat, and Mrs. D’Arcey Winten
sported navy. Mrs. Gordon Evans’s floral shantung
was covered by a green leather coat, and Mrs. F.
King wore dove-grey.
In tlie Brisbane Botanic Gardens there is now a
tree dedicated to the Indian god Siva. The Indians
eat the fruit of this native quince, and the British
use it in drinks. Synchronously with its arrival thi-
Indian deer mothered a little fawn.


Missing Prirnds.
YY7OODMASON.—If any person knows of
** the whereabouts of JAMES MATTHEW
WOODMASON, late of Malvern, and
brother of the late Walter Woodmason, will
they please communicate with The Equity
Trustees Company, 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne. It will be to Mr. Woodmason’s
advantage. Mr. Woodmason was last
heard of in the Camperdown district, and
suffered from deafness.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO
SHOCK ABSORBERS.
"""THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13,522/28 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
_JIC.S f° rC^
vOw HOUSEHOLD PACES V)
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LAOY9 LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
m Etc. Etc. Etc. „
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6!
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THERMAL WONDERS
■
m
m
wm
ft
MOUNTAINS-
SOUTHERN LAKES
£ NORTHERN RIVERS
All within the small
compass of New Zealand
.... only 4 days away! See
the wonders of-the'-imm-
ature continent/ Rotorua
... the Alps... Southern
Lakes.. shooting.. salmon,
trout and swordfish... the
lovely Wanganui River...
Send for booklets and
details to the
A 4
in »JT
TOURIST BUREAU
( AND ALL TRAVEL AGENCIES)
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.) Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
Youth was not only at the helm but all
over the ship on Friday night, when there
was a dance on the decks of the liner Man-
unda for the Mission to Seamen. There
was a lot of crushing and scrouging, but
chiffons and tulle flounces stood the strain
well. Besides lending the steamer the Adel-
aide Steamship Co. provided supper, and put
up decorations of blue and white streamers,
bunting and festoons of fairy lights. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, who topped her black
lace draperies with an ermine coat, and Mrs.
F. W. Eggleston, whose black velvet gown
was worn with a similar fur wrap, headed
the committee of girls who ran the hop. The
Irvine lady showed her interest by coming
along, and Captain Sunter at supper pre-
sented her with a miniature ship’s bell in
silver, decorated with a kookaburra. Prim-
roses and polyanthuses were passed over to
her by Mrs. Emmerton, and cheered up her
black lace gown and black velvet wrap with
its embroidery of sequins. Mr. and Mrs. F.
Bridgman and Mr. and Mrs. Mills repre-
sented the shipping co. Padre F. L. Oliver,
chaplain of the mission, and Mr. and Mrs.
.T. W. Begg and Marjorie and Muriel Drury,
of the Harbor Lights Guild, were there.
Besides dancing there was bridge, partici-
pated in by Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Robins, the
11. 11. Smiths, just back from travel; Mrs.
C. R. Cowper, whose sister, Miss Laura
Nyulasy, ran sales of scorers and sweets;
Dr. and Mrs. Newman Morris, Dr. Nyulasy
end Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Thomas.
Greeting was extended on all sides to Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Brookes and their eldest
daughter, Cynthia, just returned from the
Orient. The
tennis cham-
pion of other
days is now
quite recov-
ered from his
accident of
some months
ago. M r s.
Brookes wore
whi t e satin
draperies. Her
two younger
tlaugh ters,
Elaine, in
ivory satin
with mink-
trim m e d
coatee, and
Hers e y, in
plaid taffeta,
took part in
running the
show, Elaine,
pictured here
by Broothorn, being the treasurer. Other
committee workers were Jean Eggleston, who
wore black velvet in bustle mode; Pat Ham-
mond. Betty Baynes Dickson, Ivy Ball and
Marjory Stephens. Biddy Tallis blended
black chiffon and lace in her gown, and Pru-
dence Staughton looked attractive in black
velvet.
Most roads led to Moohec Valley on Satur-
day. There was a terrific deluge of rain in
the' mid-afternoon just as the horses were
going out for a race, and geegees and jockeys
seemed to need wringing out after the sprint.
Luckily the leak in the heavens was repaired
before the close of the meeting. Again
women members thoroughly enjoyed the
luxury of hot-water pipes as footrests in the
stand. The dressing was mostly of the better-
be-ready-for-rain order —all tailored suits,
cloth coats and fur wraps. Premier Hogan
was there with his wife, who wore black.
Mrs. F. X. de Bavay, of Tassy, who was
with her mother, Mrs. Merson Cooper, looked
smart in a black suit faced with white georg-
ette, her straw millinery being of the bowler
shape. Mrs. Stewart Ferguson wore bottle
green topped by a brown felt hat. Mr. and
Mrs. Westhoven, Mrs. Esmonde Downey,
Vera de Bavay, in all wine-red turn-out, and
Mrs. Norman Falkiner were among those on
the lawns. Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Cuthbert-
son were there to see their horse Nenad run
second in the Moonee Valley Steeplechase.
The W. Pulteney Meins celebrated the
coming of age of their second daughter, Ali-
son, with a dance at their home on St.
Kilda-road. Parchment satin beautifully cut
was worn by the newly-qualified voter, and
her elder sister Phyllis was in lame that
blended tints of gold and bronze.
The description “golden daffodil” no longer
holds good for the graceful spring bloom if
one is a stickler for accuracy, for the horti-
culturists have produced several almost white
varieties, rejoicing in such picturesque names
as Kantara, Venus, Beersheba and White
Ivory. The-10,000 or so of narcissi in last
week’s show ranged in hue from a warmish
white through all the shades of yellow to
orange, with a strong suggestion of red at
that end of the spectrum. The champion,
bloom, a Jean Hood, had perfectly formed
white petals as background for its short cup
of yellow tipped with, crimson. A new species
actually had a pink-tinted trumpet. Non-
competitive collections came from the Scott
Morrison nurseries of Wandin and Alister
Clark’s garden. _ Violets of. ecclesiastical
purple were novelties that hailed from Bulla.
Freesias, too, are undergoing transmogrifi-
cation, and some of those on view had. turned
their coats of cream and yellow into pink,
red, petunia and blends of fawn and orange.
The Malvern City Council gardens sent a
colorful display of cinerarias and cyclamens
that banked the whole of one -wall of the
lower chamber of the Town Hall; and from
the. Fitzroy Gardens came a mass of rare
foliage plants. Wild-flowers, tamed and
cultivated in gardens, attracted special atten-
tion, because in connection with these there
was a competition regarding the choice of
q national flower for our State. According
to Samuel Manger, who launched the show,
Melbourne’s Royal Horticultural Society
held the first daffodil show in the Empire
in the Athenseum Hall, Collins-street, in
1891. Birmingham followed suit in 1893, so
Alister Clark and other narcissus enthusi-
asts. including the late actor Titheradge,
established a very clear lead on the Cold
Country.
Profits of the 'Oakland's Hunt Club’s dance
at Rumpelmayers’ went to the civil ambulance
service. The flavor of the chase was pro-
vided by the pink coats of the men, dance melo-
dies with the lilt of hunting songs and
some rousing choruses at supper-time.
E. C. Robertson, the M.F.H., and deputy-
master W. H. Magennis were there;
also Mrs. Magennis, who wore black ninon.
Others present were Colonel E. Waters,
deputy-master of the Pindon Harriers; A.
V. Hiskens, Norman Wood, Dennis Moore,
Mrs. Alec McCracken, Phyllis Woodmason
and Doris Foster. Dr. Alfred Watkins and
Molly McCauley, the last-named in moire of
rosy hue, were the secretaries.
The Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club’s
point-to-point race meeting at Yering wasn’t
very exciting, the weather beinsr damp and
dreary, but returning homewards along the
H'ealesville-road seven cars and a motor-
cycle got mixed up, and Henry Patterson
went to hospital with a broken arm. Nancy
Holt, who had won the steeplechase for lady
riders, was extricated from beneath an over-
turned car little the worse* for her misadven-
ture.
The Wattle League had an afternoon of
folk-dancing on the Efenley iawns. Pupils of
Eunice; Weston .and, of the Weber and Rice
school disported ,themselves ; in Grecian garb,
and the, band of St. Vincent de Paul’s
Orphanage made music that included a song-
in praise of the wattle, composed by their
director. Laurie Stein and Valerie Reynolds
Lewis were the secretaries, both in yellow
organdie and shady hats.; The finances of
the Crippled Children’s Hospital benefited.
Masses of wattle decorated the afternoon-
tea tables.
George Maxwell, the blind K.C. and Fed-
eral Rep., handed over his youngest daughter,
Ina, to Alan, only son of the F. R. Turners,
of Sydney, at Melbourne Grammar School
chapel. The bride’s gown of ivory velvet
was trained, and her veil was of parchment-
tinted tulle. She carried a sheaf of arum-
lilies. Her sister Ailie, Rina Turner and
Ruth Peele attended her in fluffy cream silk
net frocks with coatees and hats of leaf-
green velvet; they carried posies of prim-
roses.
The Windsor unrolled its best red carpet
for the wedding reception of Dorothy, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Stokes, of
Echuca, and Eric, only son of the E. 11.
Carrs, of Brighton, who were linked at St.
Pat’s. White chiffon velvet and a Limerick-
lace veil decked the bride, and three brides-
maids and a small girl trainbearer wore pale
green organdie muslin embroidered with
primroses, which figured also on their green
millinery and in posies. In a pale yellow
satin suit a little boy also assisted in pro-
tecting the draperies of the leading lady.
Many flowers and a nearly-full house
greeted pianist Joyce Denniston and singer
Winifred Gardner, students of the Uni. Con.,
at their recital. The Beethoven “Thirty-two
Variations” and a Brahms rhapsody were
Miss Denniston’s principal offerings. Miss
Gardner, with John Simons at the piano,
sang German lieder, “Le Nil,” of Leroux,
and Tully’s “Bois Epais.”
The music of Frederick Delius, which was
the subject of an address by Fritz Hart,
filled the programme of the Music Club’s
concert. Elise Steele and Violet Ewart
played the No. 3 Sonata for violin and
piano—said to be the first public per-
formance of the work in Australia.
In “Dearest Enemy,” which opened at the
Royal on Saturday, Dorothy Brunton, as the
Irish heroine, makes her first entrance in
a pair of slippers and a barrel, her garments
having been stolen while she was bathing,
but she manages to look very pretty all the
same. Afterwards she wears gorgeous gowns
of the panniered and hooped modes. One
is of vivid forget-me-not blue satin, melting
into tulle frills and sparkling with rhine-
stones, and the other is of white satin scat-
tered with posies, with loose panels lined
with striped silk to match the blossoms.
Maidie Hope, as Mrs. Robert Murray, a
millionairess, wears mauve and pink bro-
cades. Romola Hansen, in the role of June
Murray, shows off several becoming gowns.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, who was accom-
panied by Mrs. Hewlett, Mrs. Fred Thiel,
Mrs. W. H. Merry, Mrs. Spencer Millear, of
the Western District, the Charlie Taits, the
John Taits and Mr. and Mrs. Thring were
first-nighters.
Iris Darbyshire, who partners Frank
Harvey in “My Lady’s Dress” at the
Comedy, cut her hand on the opening night
in the scene in which, as the mannequin
Anita, she stabs her employer Jacquelin with
a pair of cutting-out shears. She came on
in the final scene with her hand bandaged.
Miss Darbyshire looked attractive in her
blue and silver frock in the scene in Hol-
land. Elaine, daughter of the E. M. Pearces,
made her debut as Leonie, the maid.
For this season’s frocks there is a return
to materials which have been laid aside for
some while. Among these is Shantung silk,
of which there are two qualities on the
market. These are done in many colors, and
also in figured and eyelet-embroidered designs.
The stuff is good wearing and cool, though
rather expensive. Tartan silks and voiles
are also to the fore again, and will be seen
everywhere when the weather gets a bit
warmer.
Ex-Priminister Bruce finds it necessary
to make another trip to England on busi-
ness, and Mrs. Bruce will go with him. They
set off this week for Westralia, where there
will be a halt for a few days, when they will
board the Comorin for London.
Pauline, daughter of E. x\llen Bindley, who
waves bis baton over St. Pat’s Cathedral
choir, will be welcomed home this week.
During the latter part, of her five years in
Europe the soprano was a member of the
Carl Rosa Co., and sang for the British
Broadcasting Co. Before her departure from
these shores she was associated with Paul
Dufault in a tour of Australia and the
Orient, and played a leading part in the
Firm’s production of “The Beggar’s Opera.’’
Helene, one of the twin daughters of the
handled Robert Bests, is the latest recruit
to the local talkies, having been cast for a
leading role in “The Isle of Intrigue,” which
will be screened by A. It. Harwood at his
studio in West Melbourne. Miss Best and
her sister Roberta were debs, of last year.
Helene is the second member of the family
to go on the stage. Her eldest sister, Phyllis,
made several appearances here under the
Firm’s banner before going to England to
seek advancement.
Pianist Violet Parkinson, pictured here
by Sarony, is a B.A. as well as a Mus. Bac.,
and her versatility proved valuable during
the a m a-
teur perform-
ances of grand
opera. She
was accom-
panist for all
the rehearsals
of “Carmen,”
and when the
p e rformances
of “Carmen”
and “Faust”
were ou she
acted as
prompter,
standing by to
help Joseph
Hislop, Eileen
Castles and
the others
with the intri-
cacies of the
French libret-
tos. Apart
from her musi-
cal and linguistic attainments she has
a literary flair, and writes stories for
kiddies. While Lorna Stirling was in
Europe she wrote regularly for the
children’s page of the “Musical News,” of
which Miss Stirling has now resumed con-
trol.
Westralia has a say:—
Dorothy Beart became Mrs. Maurice Quinn at St.
Patrick’s. The dark-eyed bride was a golden souffle
of georgettes and tulle. Her moulded garment, with
its tight-fitting sleeves, was pintucked upon the cor-
sage and low hip-line whence it fell in widening
flares to the floor. Her veil, worn off her face, was
of golden tulle and her fingers nestled in a little
tulle muff. Attendant Jean Lang was a medley in
the tender green of early spring. Velvet ribbon
trimmed her wide-brimmed straw hat and green
tulle fashioned her little muff.
Red coats had a night out at the Hunt C'lub
ball in Temple Court. Despite the arctic cold, red
and green kangaroo paws on the supper tables
blatantly declared that spring had come. President’s
wife, Mrs. Jack Durack, wore black inlet with
crystal-broided ivory georgettes. Her sister, Mrs.
Victor Harwood, chose cream sprinkled with silver,
and the second ticket sec., Sheila Hayes, held her
fair head above sea-foam laces. Mrs. Sundercombe,
in black, chaperoned a daughter clad in sprigged
blue taffetas; platinum frosting shone upon Mi-s.
Joyner’s black gown; tall Mrs. Pelloe wore misty-
grey laces; corn-shaded Chiffons, fanciful with gold
veining and colored flower - ’broideries, clad Mrs.
Blackall, and daughter Joan accompanied her in
beige laces. Joan Stowe and Lillah Malloch favored
black ; Connie Smily sported silver lamS, and Mrs.
D. D. Harris was in black pricked with jet beads.
Undergrads played high jinks in the first week of
third term. Fancy-dress processions, a revue in
His Majesty’s, a crazy sports afternoon of sack
races and sprints for draught horses, and a cabaret at
Temple Court, were, items of their “Sruss-Sruss,”
profits of which go to the Lud Mayor’s unemploy-
ment fund. A sprinklirig ljf fancy costumes came to
the cabaret, and though-there were masks for every-
one their popularity waned early in the evening.
Ray McClintock and Eleanor Holland high-stepped
in “The Blue Stocking’.’ chorus and ballet. The
Gordon Wilsmores, Peggy Nunn, Anne Glick, Joan
McKenna, Mollie Noble, Bob Nunn, John Virtue
and Taffy Miller were among the dancers.
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Hughes, with their brace of
daughters, have returned from the Cold Land.
Students of Muresk Agri. College gave a dance in
their honor.
South Australia steps forward
The Toe H Ball at the Palais Royal drew a record
crowd. For the uncommonly artistic floral decora-
tions Evelyn Scarfe, Ida Turner and the butler from
Government House are to be thanked. Their Exes,
and suite, the Premier’s wife and daughter and the
Lud Mayor and Mayoress were there. Lady Hore-
Ruthven wore beige crepe de Chine brocaded in green
and silver, with an ermine wrap. Mrs. Hill chose Alice
blue and her daughter lemon-toned satin. Mrs. Glover
wore black chiffon embossed in gold. Adelaide’s only
coster, Sammy, and his donkey Rosie were
engaged to help with the sale of posies. Rosie
contributed an unrehearsed effect when she had
almost completed the round of the dance floor by-
sitting down and refusing to rise. She had to be
unharnessed and carried off.
Katherine Rymill seems fated not to have a
coming-out dance. After her return with her mother
from England some months ago, Mrs. Herbert Rymill
sent out invitations for a dance at the Kooyonga
golf clubhouse, but owing to her sudden illness the
affair had to be indefinitely postponed. A fortnight
ago fresh arrangements were made for a dance at
the Plaza, and on Monday Mr. Herbert Rymill’s
brother Ernest passed away.
The first of the Port Adelaide R. C. meetings at
Cheltenham was well attended. The A. V. Bensons
entertained at afternoon tea, she in a - black cloth
coat trimmed with Persian lamb and a small black
felt hat.
The Anglican Synod was responsible for two garden
parties at Bishop’s Court. Later there was tea and
music in the spacious drawing-rooms, where lovely
flowers were in profusion. About 300 clergy and
their wives were entertained.
The Uni. Dance Club held its final shlivoo for the
season in the Refectory. The joint presidents, Dr.
Rex Matters and his wife, she in ivory moire,
received the guests. Several of the professors and
their wives were present.
There was a good response on the same night to the
effort of the Junior Red Cross, which organised, a
dance at the Town Hall in aid of charity. Mrs.
Lavington Bonython took a keen interest, and be-
sides supervising the decorations helped to bring
many of the 300 dancers along. The Mayoress was
also present, and the stage was massed with blossom.
The Speck pipes up:—
The Child Welfare Association had a dance for
ungrownups at the Continental, with bridge upstairs.
The supper-tables were gay with peach bloom and
daffodils.
Broadland School, Launceston, spread itself over
its poster ball, which was Mrs. F. G. Dougharty’s
idea, and the Albert Hall was packed with dancers
and lookers-on. About 400 kiddies mustered for the
parade at the beginning of the show.
About 150 students, past and present, and all the
brass-hats of the Teachers’ Conference gathered for
the annual dinner of the “Philipians,” who chose
the occasion to bid farewell to J. A. Johnson, who
has been head at Philip Smith College for many
years.
The Hobart Repertory Society staged Phillpott’s
“Yellow Sands” at the Royal. The Devonshire atmo-
sphere was cleverly caught, stage settings were
delightful, and Mrs. Booth’s characterisation of Mary
Varwell was excellent.
Vaudrey Robinson’s show of bromoils was an
interesting affair. Subdued and delicate effects sug-
gesting water-color are obtained in same instances,
while the monochromes are like softened etchings.
Subject matter has been drawn from Australia and
abroad.


ď
Tired-out with constant pain, limbs like pieces
of lead, back aching, swollen joints, sharp, shooting
pains—thousands know these symptoms too well.
The remedy, we confidently assert, is De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
There is no need to describe to sufferers the
pain and, crippling agony caused by rheumatism.
Those with swollen joints, twitching muscles, con-
stant aching back, know these symptoms only too
well. What they do not know is that to neglect
rheumatism may quickly lead to serious heart-
weakness. Do you know that the majority of
cases of heart-failure, especially in elderly people,
is due to rheumatic trouble?
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR
PAIN. , „
You will never end/ rheumatism until you
prompt the kidneys to cleanse from the system the
pain-giving, heart-affecting' poisons—and this, on
the evidence of thousands, yes, many thousands, of
one-time sufferers restored to 1 health, we say De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will do for you.
To every intelligent man or woman we say:
“Do you think that for 40 years De Witt s Pills
could have been sold the world over for the one
purpose of ending kidney trouble unless this
remedy was successful?"
THIS REMEDY BEARS A
DEFINITE GUARANTEE.
Do you know that every bottle
of De Witt’s ‘Pills soldi carries a
definite money-back guarantee?
If, within 24 hours from starting
to take these pills regularly, you
do not see that they are acting
directly through the kidneys, re-
turn partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full, by return.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not
a “cure-all.” They are made from a prescription
(clearly printed on each box) solely for the pur-
pose of remedying kidney trouble—the cause of
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, bladder weakness,
chronic backache and the weakness and loss of
vitality caused by impoverished blood.
De Witt’s Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed. Men and women
in dreadful pain for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them health, strength and
vigor in a marvellously short time. They have
proved an “untold blessing” to thousands. Start
to-day, secure a 3/6 box and let it end your weak-
ness, your fear of hidden health dangers.
x \\\\W \\ A A
DeWITTS
and bladder
‘ \\
i , .: l
•: 9S gp
* mm
m
mm
m
S 4
r
acute rheumatism ended.
Mi-. ALBERT HAY SOM,
of Heath Hill, South Gipps-
land, Vie., says: “Whilst. 1
was on active service I
suffered great pain from
Rheumatism. I was treated
in many hospitals, but it was
not till I tried De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills
that I had any relief. I have
had; no sign of the Rheu-
matism since and am indeed
grateful that my friend
advised me to try De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills;”'.-
Visitors for Tea.
HORTON BROOKS TELLS HOW OLD DAN SAVED THE SITUATION
AT MENIN GATE.
WE were not expecting visitors that
aftefnoon at “Bon V T Ue.” Just the two
of us were at home —myself and Dan.
“Bon Vue”: a pleasing prospect—the
crumbling walls of the ruined city just
across the gloomy moat; the jagged, form-
less outlines of all those shell-shattered
buildings with their gaping roofs; the
shambles which once had been Ypres.
And yet, except for those occasional “coal-
boxes” roaring by, it was not at all a bad
sort of place, that dug-out we were occupy-
ing close by the Menin Gate.
Those “coal-boxes.” I can laugh now
when I think of them. And yet there were
times when we laughed at them even then —
but that was after the last of the shower
of brick-dust had come to earth.
But principally we laughed at Dan.
"They’ve got a special label on them for
cooks: so. look out, Dan!” we would say to
him. And Dan’s shaggy red eyebrows would
start up until they almost met the even
shaggier, grey-tinged cow’s-lick which seemed
so much a part of him.
Dan; Old Dan. Not old, really; but old
as Diggers went. He had been with us
right from the early days in Armentieres;
but I had never worried myself much about
him. How little I knew of him I had
not realised —until that afternoon.
“Used t’ do a bit of carryin’.” This much
I knew of his civvie days. From some part
of Western Queensland he came; A Godfor-
saken name it had. I remember ; it seemed to fit
Dan somehow—rough as bags ; just like him !
No 1 ; we had not been expecting visitors
that afternoon. More than usually miser-
able it had been, with the rain pouring s.o
heavily down. Flanders for rain ! Still, I
had nothing to growl about; it hadn’t been my
turn to take the ration party up to the line.
Just the two of us left in the dug-out—
Old Dan and I. He had been poking about
for some time in the improvised cookhouse
attached to the dug-out, but had at last satis-
lied himself that the fire was sufficiently
"set.” And now he had settled down, in
his usual sprawling attitude, on a couple of
sandbags set out on the floor, there to satiate
himself with the contents (or discontents?)
of'his soot-begrimed copy of “John Bull.”
“Must say this paper sticks up 'f’r th'
Tommies, Corp.,” he. grunted. “Not that tH’
cows are worth stickin’ up for!” he added.
“Never had any time .for ’em —or for any! of
th’ haw-haw mob- what rides it over ’em!”
A favorite topic of; his ; >and, taken up
with my own mood, I declined to be drawn.
“Bon Vue!” Half propped-up on my bunk,
I was still staring at the picture framed by
the dug-out entrance. The pride of Flanders
once—Ypres. Arid look at it now! The
soul gone out of it; dead. Dead!
“What’s up, Corp ? Those pork-an’-beans
sittin’ heavy on yer?”
I had murmured my thoughts aloud, it
seemed. Yes; perhaps I should be a bit
more sociable.
'■ “Oh no, Dan! Not enough po.rk in them
for”- —— ’ Suddenly., my heart stopped still.
“Not —not too far away,’ that, one Dan !’’ I
was the first to break the silence.
“A Jimmy Woodser, eh, Corp.?”
Then all of a sudden we both looked up.
Voices! The squelching of feet in the mud
out there? Not the ration party; they were
not due for quite a long while yet.
.And now. what light there had been in
the dug-out was. being largely blotted out.
Two figures, it seemed —and wasn’t that a
walking-stick:
“Yes?” I called out,'raising myself into an
upright position.
That tunic —the badge on the sleeve? A
Tommy colonel! What, in God’s name, did
he want here?
I was standing upright on my feet now.
From the series of noise behind me I gathered
that Dan, too, was alive to the situation. 1
And that second figure? Just an ordinary
Tommy; his batman, no doubt.
“Ah, Australiansj I see—Australians!
Sorry for intruding in on you like this! But
the fact is—er, the fact is”
The light still being behind him, I could not
yet see his face clearly. But. that voice! 1
“What can I do for you, sir?” I stammered.
Why was he hesitating?
“Ah, yes, yes! Of course! The fact is,
we were looking for a little shelter,' Corporal
—that is, myself and my servant here'. You
heard the burst of that shell, Corporal? It
was just—just a little too close! I am
afraid that Simpson here —yes, yes!”
I was beginning to understand. This poor
devil here; the fear in his eyes, the way his
whole body was quivering. . Not a case of
shell-shock exactly. Just more than ordinary
wind-up—rather more than ordinary.
Dan behind me here —why the devil
couldn’t he stop shuffling his feet?
“Come right:in, sir,” mt .last I said.
The moments which followed were curi-
ously embarrassing; : To this day I don’t
quite know how I managed: to .induce the
Colonel to seat himself on that ammunition-
box of ours. It irked me a little at first
to see him manoeuvre his batman into the
best possie in the dug-out; but when I looked
at the Tommy’s face!
“Good weather for ducks, eh, Colonel?”
At last Dan broke into speech. During
,all this time I had not looked at him. But
I was feeling thankful that the rum ration
had petered out.
We both remained standing. Dan and I,
in spite of the motioning wave of. the
Colonel’s hand. Dan and I—it peeved me a
little: I realised now that in the Colonel’s
attention Dan was occupying first place. A
specimen entirely foreign to him, Dan would
be—l consoled myself with the thought of
this.
It is coming back to me now; but I feel
that it would sound rather absurd if I were
to set it. down, the conversation which then
took place,
No idle conversation —not on the Colonel s
side, at least. Very soon I tumbled to his
idea. Old Dan offered the better material;
and he was. deliberately making use of him
to help restore the batman’s confidence m
himself.
I never saw a thing more perfectly done.
It was quite a time before Dan himself real-
ised the Colonel’s lay, so taken .up was he
with : his r answers to all the questions on
Australian out-back life. , , ; .
City-bred, I too was learning something.
That little settlement which had been Dan’s
home —liow he was unfolding it before our
eyes! The little cluster of houses with their
galvanised-iron roofs, shimmering in the heat
of the gidya plain; the “characters” who
peopled the place ; the goats straying around ;
the stack of empty beer bottles behind the
pub; the tinkle of bullock bells; the string
of camels passing over the horizon.
As he listened the Colonel gave scarcely
a look towards his servant. Yet all the
while he might just as well have had his
finger on the poor devil’s pulse.
The further he went the more enthusias-
tic did Dan become. I had never believed
him capable of so unfolding himself. It
was at that moment I began to think I
had never known Dan.
' And. all the while I was half-hypnotised
by 1 the Colonel’s voice. The beauty of it, the
dignity of, it!. .. .. It was laughing now at
.Dan’s description of a kangaroo-hunt. But
it was of England I was thinking, of . that
cathedral town where I had spent my last
leave ; of the strange sense of uplift I had
felt. England—and here were we entertain-
ing one of England’s best!
“You’re going up into the line, sir?”
thinking it was time I said something again,
I was on-the point of asking. But, stealing
a glance ' at the - Tommy, I checked myself.
It would be the very worst thing I could
say—yet. Of course they were going up
into the line.! .Tim Colonel hadn’t called in
here merely to skelter from the rain—and
■ he ; wouldn’t be taking all this- trouble if
they were going out.
Dan had just said something. >
“Ha, ha! Yes, rather! What do you
think of that, Simpson? What do you think
of that ?”
It was the first time, the very first time
since the conversation had begun, that the
Colonel had given his batman any indica-
tion that he was aware of his. presence.
Hadn’t he been a little premature? I-won-
dered. But, no; from the change in the
Tommy’s expression he had judged the
moment to a nicety.
• The Tommy had murmured something in
reply. I could not catch what he had said—
if he had said anything intelligible at all.
But I knew that for the moment at least
he was no longer mindful of himself. This,
too. the Colonel knew. Yet he had scarcely
turned his head.
What had agitated Dan all of a sudden?
He had remembered his copy of “John Bull”
lying there near his feet, was endeavoring
now- —the while he.-held the Colonel’s eye—
to conceal the title-sheet!
And now —— The roar of it! The scream
of it!
If ever there was a shell more inoppor-
tune! That whimper coming from the direc-
t.ion of my bunk —had the Colonel s uOl k
been all undone? - .. . , ... „
As he watched that debris hurtling
through the air, am I likely to forget "ha
the Colonel said? „ „
Just: •'Oh, quite!” Then after a paus
he said it again. , I
__At last 1 had stolen -a 1 glance-at the
Tommy. I could scarcely conceal-my sui-
prise, my relief.> He* was more copscious
of himself now than at -any v stage beloie.
but he was >putting'.the'.grip on. I. could see.
From a sound coming from the cookhouse
I realised that the dixie • had ’ now come to
the b0i1.... But no —having regard to 1m
rank. I could not very well do that....
But Dan had thought otherwise, itseemed.
“How about tryin’ a drop of me tea, Colonel.
.But I can’t promise yer it s as good as
the tea I was fellin’ yer about.”
How could the Colonel resist that.
Yes, and a biscuit—just the one dog-
biscuit, he took. ~
I was watching Simpson. As he held his
mug his hand was reasonably steady; the
color was coming back into his cheeks Ana
still, guided by the Colonel, Dan rattled on
—perfect team-work.... , , ~ ,
“Well, Simpson, I think we had better bo
moving along,” .said the Colonel at last. And
soon, almost before I had realised it. the?
had taken their farewell. . . T -
We had resumed our former positions, Dan
and I. The dug-out seemed strangely empty.
At last, with a sudden movement, Dan
broke the silence: “What d’yer know 7 about
that !” ~ .
The question called for no answer. Div-
ing my hand into my tunic pocket I drew
out my cigarette-case. Then, putting away,
I stared out through the. dug-out- entrance—
at The ruin of Ypres lying in all its naked-
ness. , .
I realised presently that Dan had risen
to liis feet He had entirely forgotten me.
I felt.
Slowly he had walked to the doorway.
Now, a pace or two outside the dug-out, h* 1
had stopped and was standing perfectly still.
“My God!” I heard him mutter— my
God, if only a man Had had a—a mother
like him!” , , .
His back was still turned to me; from
where I lay in my bunk I could not see tlm
upper part of his body. But how much more
of Dan I was seeing than ever I had seen
before!
Mateless.
Now that the swamps are blue with water,
Hyacinth pools on the seaboard plain.
Now that the wind shakes wet and chill
Green wild-fuchsia bells over the' hill,
The lonely heron is back again.
Every morning lie passes, mateless.
Across our rooftree, crying aloud.
Five years past he has flung his prayer
Into the blowing, rain-bright air:
Harsh yet musical, sad yet proud.
He may be trumpeting praise of freedom,
He may be puzzled with dreary pain.
How can we guess why strong wings quiver.
We, earth-bound? We can only shiver:
“Hark to the lonely old blue crane!”
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


For banishing
INFLUENZA
COUGHS AND COLDS
money cannot buy a
better remedy than
f
an
■■
Mg|§§^?
mm
m
m
zM
Sy, 1
■
m
•:c : -
COSTS 21; SAVES £’s
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people
to make the best family cough remedy, and at the same time save much
money. Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy
consists of two main sections:—
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients; and the
second is, of course, the necessary water and sweetening. The
preparation of the medicinal ingredients requires trained knowledge, but
the water and sweetening can be added in the home just as easily as in
the pharmacy. And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now, prove
these facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till dissolved, and when
the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle, and then add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your
chemist or store. By doing this you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would
cost up to £l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO is the fact that
it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and over 12,000 people
have written letters proclaiming it the best remedy they have ever used
for quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
Dear Heenzo, —
Sir Harry Lauder’s famous words
were: “I tried Heenzo and found it
good”—them’s my sentiments —for I
appreciate the fact that, by just adding
sweetened water to a two-shilling
bottle of concentrated Heenzo, 1 am
able to make about £ 1 ’s worth of easily
the best remedy I have ever used for
chest and throat ailments.
Yours for Health and Laughter,
JIM GERALD.
Regain
Your
HEALTH
and
STRENGTH
by taking
a few bottles
of
HEAN’S
TONIC
NERVE
NUTS
the famous health-
restoring
TONIC
for eradicating
NERVES
NEURITIS
INSOMNIA
ANAEMIA
and
Brain Fag
Bottles containing 12 days*
supply cost 3/- at all Chemists
and Stores.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GR.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME ....
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 inonths, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
d
n
0°
e
i>
¥<*•
..****
" A.
A lll
••’ iVV V <y»


1
1
▲
k
PRICES being equal, sales opportunity being equal, isn’t
it logical to suppose that the company which builds
the most tyres does so because it builds the best tyres?
Goodyear, the world over, builds the most tyres —by
millions! It has built the most tyres every year for 16
years! No need then to say that it builds the best tyres;
the public has decided that.
Wouldn’t this be a good time for you to do a little
deciding too? In the future it will pay you to say:
”1 will buy only leading make of tyre!”
1
The famous All-Weather Tread
is superior in traction. Press
your hand upon this tread. Feel
the grip of the deep-cut, sharp-
edged blocks placed in the centre
of the tread where they belong.
This illustrates its hold-fast
action on city streets and coun-
try roads.
MMh
.'•'lb
ill
¥
/ The Supertwist Cord Car-
f <'
cass is superior in vitality,
and long life. Under continued
flexing or sudden road shock,
where ordinary cords fatigue
or snap, the extra-elastic Super-
twist cords stretch and recover
like rubber bands.
