

KODAK
Picture Competition
You snapshot
mioht win
Snapshots made at home! Snap-
shots made x>n your travels! Snap-
shots at work and play! Snapshots
of places, peoples and things. . . .
they all stand a chance in the big Kodak
International £20,000 Competition.
Picture-makers in Australia, New Zealand
and the Pacific Islands alone are eligible
for £756 in cash prizes, while one simple
snapshot may win over £2OOO, a Silver
Trophy, a Bronze Medal and a Gold Medal.
Amateurs only are eligible. Pictures must
be made in February, March, April and
May, 1931. No technical skill is required.
Pictures will be judged solely on general
appeal—-on the interest they arouse.
You have as good a chance as anyone. Get
busy with your camera. Send in as many
entries as you wish—remember there are
20 prizes to be won in each class, apart from
the big awards.
Ask for entry form and descriptive folder
from any photographic dealer, and
Of all Kodak dealers
and
ODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
250-52 Queer Street, Brisbane.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth. Street, Hobart.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
:V;
I m
£
s
m
i
V
m
)
HI
W
n
f
sm
:£■■■
B
&
■
-
mi
m
i
■■n
//
?
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princess Street, Dunedin.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
U<e cut Cut Jhte/iat,fyitlf-&£.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2660.
Wednesday, February 4, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


]T\YMOCK’S Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
terms and particulars, post free, on appli-
cation to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
*iMl
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON .
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. \
Please send, without obligation, your Mew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..••••••••*
tty Address .. •
S.B. SIS
HOLBROOKS
è
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
Your supper awaits
you.
W ith the lobster,
salad and cheese 1 have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
*
OttDQB
CANADXS famous
MOUNTAIN RESORT
TN the heart of Canada’s
A Rockies, midst mile - high
peaks, j&de forests and singing
waterfalls, is famous Banff
buoyant air—every outdoor plea-
sure golf warm swimming
pool—riding—lovely roads—pal-
atial C.P.R. Hotel—smart people,
many social affairs. You’ll gain
new life at Banff. Stay at this
glorious alpine resort on your
€
way to Europe.
Write for illustrated
booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Jhjc Worlds Greatest Gravel System
(onstipation
means the end
of Health
é
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless His, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
ing worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
ê
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
m
The longer you
use a ‘Swan* Pen
the more you will
appreciate the
perfect writing-
qualities and its
constant relia-
bility which have
made ‘Swan’
craftsmanship
world-famous.
5.F.230C
Black or
Mottled
(with Clip)
27/6
Jade
(with Clip)
30/-
Coloured ‘ Swans * from 22/6
(Other Self-Filling ‘Swans’ from 17.6
Black or Mottled)
“ F ne-Poynt” Pencils f om 716
Self-Filling 4 Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W,X.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managin ' Agents and Repair Service■ Depot l
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
SWAN”
PEN
ë
ASIC TO SEE THE NEW COLOURED “SWANS”!
The Red Page
Soldier Songs
I have not the slightest hesitation in ad-
vising every fighting Digger and every
Digger association, from the Federal one
to the one that meets in the Mechanics’
Institute at Sheoak, to beg, borrow, sou-
venir, snaffle, scrounge or send for Songs
and Slang oj the British Soldier: 191.^-1918,
• edited, with introduction, glossary, notes,
appendices, chants, sayings and bugle calls,
by John Brophy and Eric Partridge, and
published at Partridge’s Scholartis Press,
30 Museum-street, London (price 7s. 6d.
net). I’d go further and urgently commend
it to the fathers and younger brothers
(especially the fathers) of Diggers, only I
doubt whether they could get the full flavor
of romance that those who sang these songs
on the spot might extract from such a book.
It must become the textbook for Digger
reunions; but it has a more lasting purpose.
The songs, of course, are low songs. They
have no intrinsic beauty; little originality
of either thought or melody. But they are
songs that millions of men sang at a war,
and, as the editors say, they
aie genuine “folk-songs,” and as such they itand
alone in the modern world. Nothing like them is
found in civilian life.... They are the songs of
homeless men, evoked by exceptional and distressing
circumstances ; the songs of an itinerant community,
continually altering within itself under the incidence
of death and mutilation.
Anyone short of a prude or ignoramus
must, I think, be struck by the large pro-
portion of almost drawing-room ditties to
the obscene. A fair number, in the classic
expression, are rough as bags; but they are
open and unashamed about it. As were
their singers.
Drinkwater’s Pepys
It is perhaps not hard to imagine what
would have been Pepys’s reaction to an
evening of those “folk-songs.” His passion
for any kind of music and certain other
pleasing traits in his character would have
led him to enjoy it thoroughly. Then he
would have gone home, perhaps a bit
foxed, and kicked himself in the diary.
The latest book about him, Pepys: His Life
and Character (Heinemann; 21s. net),
leaves me, at least, with a higher opinion
of its author, John Drinkwater, whom I
had shamefully ticketed “singularly dull.”
On top of that prejudice camte a lifeless
beginning, and, even worse, an impression
that the book would be wowseristic. Perse-
verance had its reward by page 24, whereon
Drinkwater begins a long paragraph which
capitally analyses the complex character,
of whose name even there are more versions
than those noted by Ashby Sterry:—
There are people, I’m told, some say there are
heaps,
Who speak of the talkative Samuel as Peeps,
And some, so precise and pedantic their step is,
Who call that delightful old diarist Pep-ys;
But those I think right, and I follow their steps,
Ever mention the garrulous gossip as Peps.
Drinkwater, on the fairly excusable ground
that it was its Owner’s pronunciation,
numbers himself with the “heaps.” He soon
abandons his mission to warn his readers
against Pepys’s raciness, and long Before the
end has firmly established as a hero the
man who, one morifing in bed, could pull
his wife’s nose, “and the poor wretch took
it mightly ill,” who could “so far forget
himself” as to kick a maid for some piffling
misdemeanor,. but who was yet heroic in
such things as the way he stuck to his post
when all others deserted during the plague,
and in the care with which he fitted himself
for his job and the efficiency—notwithstand-
ing the bribes he accepted—with which he
did it. I can’t imagine anyone writing a
bad Life of Pepys; but I must say that
Drinkwater has written an uncommonly
good one.
The Eighteen-Eighties
There is another interesting example of
Drinkwater in a biographic mood—it must
have been his verse that prejudiced me—
in his Martin Tupper contribution to The
Eighteen-Eighties (Cambridge University
Press; Roycroft; 12s. 6d. net), a collection
of papers by Fellows of the Royal Society
of Literature, with Walter de la Mare as
editor and writer of an admirable intro-
duction and closing paper on Lewis Carroll.
The papers, by 10 different hands, present
a satisfying picture of the literary activity
of an active decade. The first three papers,
typical of the sort of thing literary societies
listen to the world over, are happily not
representative of the book. Father Martin-
dale has been in better form than I find
him in “Newman and Manning,” but he is
a definite step up, and then come six worth-
while efforts —“The
Place of Pater,”
by T. S. Eliot;
“Minor Fiction of
the ’Eighties,” by
Forrest Reicl'
(extra choice);;
“Gilbert and Sullivan,” by G. K. Chester-
ton (also extra); “The Coming of Ibsen,”
by Harley Granville-Barker; Drinkwater’s
“Tupper” and De la Mare’s “Carroll.” Reid
makes the interesting assertion that all the
seed for the Woman’s Rights novel, the
Religious Doubts novel and the Sex novel
was wafted from Olive Schreiner’s farm in
Africa; that is to say, inspired by her one
great book.
G. K. “Essays”
Chesterton, who sums up shortly on that
decade when he says it was typified in the
product of Gilbert and Sullivan, is .also
responsible for one of the best of the
annual batches of what must, for want of 'a
better word, be called essays —Come to
Think of It (Methuen; 6s. net). The con-
tents are as far removed from one of the
finest of modern essays, Chesterton’s own
“Piece of Chalk,” as, say, that, prince of
“society-verse” writers Praed is removed
from the latest effusion of the free-verse
school. I -mean the comparison only in
respect of distance; for these controversial
articles are doubtless as good in their way
as the “Piece of Chadk” is in its way; and
because in them the noblest beerdrinker
of the age goes hard at shams, crooked
thinking, wowserism and the like, they are
possibly, temporarily, even better. On
literary censorship
Nobody can be expected to stand the inquisitor
who says: “I am burning- mu alive for what you
said to-day, and what I shall probably think 'to-
morrow.” And that is the tone of nearly all the
tentative repressions and remonstrances of our time.
He passes over modern poetry with the
comment that it should be seen and not
heard. Speaking of the detective story,
“Trent’s Last Case,” he says:—
Mr. Hilaire Belloc, who never reads detective
stories, admires this one; and Mr. Maurice Baring,
who reads all the detective stories that can be had
for love or money, admires this one most of all.
Come to Think of It has also the import-
ant, virtue that it fits the’ hip-pocket, fairly
cosily.
Revelation
Not even the present delicate treatment
of the Oscar Wilde-ish theme of Revelation,
by Andre Birabeau, translated by Una Lady
Troubridge (Gollancz; Dymocks; 65.), can
overpower the taint. It is brilliant crafts-
manship even in translation, but from the
moment Madame Casseneuil finds the com-
promising letters in her dead son’s belong-
ings till she meets the man (“A corn
chandler!”), the reader lives in an atmo-
sphere the disgustfulness of which is not
lessened by the writer’s apparent abhor-
rence. It is a theme that decidedly does
not appeal to my taste, but I have no
doubts about the brief novel’s sincerity or
its writer’s powers as a re'alist. •
Bradman’s Book
Don Bradman’s Book (Hutchinson;
Robertson and Mullens; 155.) surprises
chiefly by the lucid style of its writer, who,
as P. F. Warner says in a contagiously
enthusiastic introduction, differs from WiG.
in that Grace did not always write his own
books. Occasionally Bradman lapses into
journalese and carelessly meets people
like Sir Stanley and Lady Bruce, but
for the most part he writes so unaffectedly,
so plainly, that a nine-year-old boy
—it’s a wonderful book for a boy—
could not possibly mistake a single word
of it. When his father had cut three
inches off the bottom of the bat a senior
cricketer had given him, he went into the
paddock with his prized possession. Then:
“I played shots at imaginary balls till the
light failed. I was happy.” Before that he
had played with “the limb of a gum-tree.”
No doubt there are bowlers who’d suggest
that he still does, and a hefty limb at that.
Later: “In the first innings Freeman bowled
me with a prodigious leg break.” I don’t
think that “prodigious” could have been
improved on just there even by a cricket-
writing genius like Neville Cardus—never,
by the way, mentioned in the cables, practi-
cally unheard of in Australia, and yet per-
haps the greatest in his line on earth (or
under or above it). Bradman is to be con-
gratulated on having done something almost
as good as his cricket. It is a refreshing
fragment of boyish autobiography.
RED PAGE.
A Poor Job
ŵ
ẁ


ĕ
e
è
é
ê
ë
ē
Smokers’
Needs
at Reduced
Prices
1/3 BRIAR PIPES, V-
Service Briar Pipes with vulcanite
mouthpiece. E.P. bands—in
assorted shapes. Price, each, 1/3
Sale Price 1/"
3 6 BRIAR PIPES, 2/6
London-made Briar Pipes with
vulcanite mouthpiece. All popular
shapes, with silver bands.
Price, each 3/6
Sale Price • • • 2/6
5/6 BRIAR PIPES, 5/-
Palace Briar Pipes, made in Lon-
don. With vulcanite mouthpiece
and silver bands. All leading
shapes. Price, each 5/6
Sale Price 5/-
9/- BRIAR PIPES, 8 -
“Triumph” First-grade Briar
Pipes, with vulcanite mouthpiece
«—silver bands. Made by the
best London makers from well-
matured Briar root. Price, 9/~
Sale Price 8/-
I66ORLIK PIPES, 10/-
Orlik Bruyere Antique Briar Pipes
with vulcanite mouthpiece. Dark
stain, in assorted shapes.
Price, each 16/6
Sale Price 10/-
CIGARETTES AT
SALE PRICES.
State Express, No. 333
7hd. 1/3 3/H
Anthony Horderns’ “Triumph”
Virginia Cigarettes. Price, per
box of 100 6/6
Sale Price . . . 6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Egyptian
Cigarettes, price per 100.. 8/-
Sale Price 7/6
QUALITY CIGARS
REDUCED.
Calixto Lopez Cigars, in boxes
of 25. Price. Sale.
Creme de la Creme, 27/6 25/-
Exceptionales Superfino—
-35- 29/6
Half Calixto . v . 24/- 21/-
Calixto Lopez Ciclos—
in box of 10 . . 12/- 11/-
Punch Cigars in boxes of 25
Bouquets 25/- 20/-
Macanudos 30/- 25/-
Cabanas Cigars in boxes of 25
Conchas De Regalo, 18/- 16/6
Spencers’ Sumatra Indian Whiffs,
in box of 100. Price, box, 16/6
Sale Price 15/6
( Tobacco —Ground Floor , George St.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)


Are you supporting this totally Australian industry? It employs
hundreds of Australians directly in the REX factories and
offices in each State, hundreds of Australians indirectly
on the land, in glass and can-making, printing, labels,
machinery, etc., and only Australian capital. It
will employ more if you buy REX products
instead of the imported, the very best
of which are not better than, if as
good as, the REX pure foods
made in your own country.
Every REX Delicacy is
the highest quality
it is possible to
produce.
CSoice Bex Delicacies
REX-PYE is the famous
meat in jelly delicious for
lunch and for sandwiches
and I Ib.cans
ĕ
Packed b 4 FOCCITT JONES PTY. LTD.
The La best
Product*
in-*ria cartons and 51b. blocks
loch <mi Id-the best - pasteurised cheese on Hie market
d Ur e
FOOPS
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausaqes
\ib cans and I lb. cans ’
Rex Pork Sausage*
lb. cans and I lb. cans
Rex Beef Sausaqe9
I ib cans
vs?
ė
ę
Rex Lunch Tongues
l lb. cans
D
uuiii i]
imm
Rex luncheon Cheese
-delicious for sandwiches
and savouries
2ozcans - 4otcan& & Jars
ě
REX HAMS and BACON
Mild Sugar-cured'-Delicious
Support a totally Australian Industry
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited.
Curers of the choice REX Hams & Bacon & Packers of REX-PYE & other delicious Canned Delicacies


DAGENITE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Fit a “Dagenite”—Save Sales Tax.
e
jf .s
V
. '
' • i
y \
■ ! '
.
Hr
/
è
Weekly,” H. L. Morrow. Mr. Morrow
opens: “It has been described as an ironi-
cal commentary on Australian literature
that the first writer on the subject should
have borne the name of Barron Field.”
All but a few lines of the first half of the
article are given over to the work of “Orion”
Horne, Gordon and Ivendall. Poetry since
Gordon is allotted 33 lines and even the
bare names of Chris Brennan, David Mc-
Kee Wright, Arthur Adams, Furnley Maur-
ice and Dorothea Mackellar are absent. A
certain “Mary Gilmour” is mentioned, how-
ever. The paragraph on fiction is shorter
than that on Gordon. The names of only
three living writers are mentioned therein,
and of those two have ceased writing long
ago, and the third (“C. A. Bean,” meaning
C. E. W. Bean) can scarcely be called a
writer of fiction. The only names that
appear are Marcus Clarke, Henry Kingsley
(whose “Geoffry Hamlyn” is spelled
“Geoffrey Hamlyn”), Rolf Boldrewood,
Louis Becke, Henry Lawson, Barbara Bayn-
ton, Mrs. /Eneas Gunn and the aforesaid
C. A. Bean. The remainder of the article
is devoted to “history and topography,” and
of this section a quarter is used to discuss
Edward Gibbon Wakefield, who was never
in Australia, I fancy.
Still, all things considered, the article on
the same subject in the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia” (1926) is not much better. It
omits any reference to Joseph Furphy, who
died in 1913, to Henry Handel Richardson
and William Hay, who had been writing for
20 years before the article was written, and
to Katharine Susannah Prichard.
JOHN FROST.
Maoriland, Her Poets!
The writer of this article is given an
author’s right to reply on the ground
that he wrote a number of verses in-
cluded in “Kowhai Gold,” reviewed by
Arthur D. Wylie ( R.P. 7/1 /’SI).
Mr. Wylie’s survey of the book follows
the line he took in his criticism some
months ago of “New Zealand Short Stories.”
His main tenet is that there is no national
spirit in verse or yarn unless the stuff is
threaded with local allusion. This idea is
borrowed from the London reviewers of the
work of any new country. The story is not
South African unless a sjambok toys with
a Zulu on the veldt; (the story is not
Canadian unless the hero wrestles with a
moose on trackless snow; it is not New
Zealand unless Maoris, Phormium tenax and
mountain fern are littered about. I re-
member in Mr. Wylie’s remarks on /‘New
Zealand Short Stories” that “they missed out
the tang of the flax in the valleys.” I have
never seen or heard flax tang, and it does
not grow in valleys. Surely a good Aus-
tralian story can be written which does not
mention Lang, the platypus or any other
of your unique fauna. The truth is that
the Maoriland writer is as closely con-
ditioned by his environment as the Aus-
tralian or any other national. Katherine
Mansfield is as inescapably the product
of the Maoriland soil as Henry Lawson
is of Australian. There are far more Jersey
cows in Maoriland than wekas, and millions
more English violets than kowhai blooms,
and more motor-cars than war-canoes. Our
lakes, mountains and geysers are very like
everybody’s lakes, mountains and geysers.
It would be sheer falsehood, let alone bad
art, to pretend that Maoriland literature
should speak to the world only of the tiny
portion of the content of the country which
is distinctive. If therp is any lack of dis-
tinctiveness in the spirituality of the Maori-
lander it must be charged to the lack of
formative quality of the terrain itself and
not to the strangling of “incipient Lawsons
and Daleys at birth.” I like the ingenuity
of “Sitwell and soda and Rossetti and rub-
bish,” but surely the two phrases apply
with extraordinary aptness to the bulk of
output of Australian verse. I am afraid
I cannot either admit that the charge of
incurable artificiality is a fair one—it is too
easy to make. It savors too much of the
Cockney reviewers’ obsession that verse
in these countries should be written by
bronzed vagabonds under the spreading
boughs of she-oaks or rimus. Probably
far more good Australian bush rhymes
have been written in dinner-jackets than
in dungarees, and the brain-children of
writers in these countries are born just
where they are everywhere else—in sub-
urban bungalows or city flats. They may
be sincerely conceived and record genuine
emotion nevertheless.
Finally, verse and stories are not written
by deaf, dumb and blind folk, and these
would be the only Maorilanders who do not
realise every day that their beloved country
is not “primrose-bordered and slum-slimed
England.” Still, they prefer London to
Chicago or Hollywood as their literary
capital.
O. N. GILLESPIE.
“L.L.”: Jack McLaren’s well-known auto-
biographical book, “My Crowded Solitude,”
the kernel of which appeared for many
years in Bulletin pars, signed “McNorth,”
has lately been put into the Essex Library.
This means an almost permanent circula-
tion at a low price, and adds to the book’s
reputation. It had already had four Eng-
lish editions, as well as others in U.S.A. and
in several continental languages.
A Satchel of Books
The Moratorium Act, by R. E. Tebbutt
(Law Book Co.; 55.), explains the benefits
conceded to mortgagors, land purchasers, hire
purchasers, borrowers, judgment debtors,
etc., under the recent N.S.W. Act.
Some Letters from Abroad of James Elroy
Flecker (Heinemann; Ss. 6d. net) are more
scrappy than most collections of letters, but
none_ the less convincing on that account.
Reminiscences by the widow, who -was Helie
Skiadaressi when he married her in Athens,
and an introduction by Squire help the letters
to tell the poet’s life story fairly completely.
Baslian and /, by Thomas Mann (Collins;
Roycroft, Sydney; 55.). Even the slightly
heavy hand of the translator does not press
the beauty out of this idyllic essay of a dog-
lever. It was written during the war, as a
writer’s relief from the spectacle of man
hating man. The dog and the man come
alive together on the page.
Traveller's Luck (Methuen; 65.) is E.
Y. Lucas in his best veiiP —objective and
descriptive articles in appreciation of line
things, from statues to bird sanctuaries,
peaches to Abdullah Bulbul Ameer. Many
of his appreciations are of sufficiently
neglected things to amount to discoveries,
and he has a way of making his enthusiasms
contagious.
Mrs. Dose, the Doctor's Wife, by Joyce
Dennys (Bodley Head; ss. net). Breezy
glimpses at the medico game from the woman
point of view, and particularly at the right
and wrong sorts of doctors’ yives. One of
the author’s illustrations depicts the doctor
handing his wife a laurel wreath, but most
of the medicoes concerned have reason for
thinking hopefully of another wreath, per-
haps less distantly related to the profession.
The Boys’ Life of Sir Henry Segrave, by
Captain Malcolm Campbell and J; Went-
worth Day (Hutchinson; 7s. 6d. net). Camp-
bell knew Segrave in his own line; Day knew
him as a friend; what is more important,
they apparently have a fair knowledge of
the genus boy as a reader. Thirty-odd page
illustrations depict the main events of
Segrave’s career, and there’s a curious
glimpse of the miniature railway which was
his great hobby.
The keynote of The Balance, by Ada Har-
rison (J. M. Dent; 65.), is that life’s slings
and arrows can’t be dodged, but are never
so dreadful as they seem. When Helen
Fearse is left a legacy which enables her
to buy the country house of her dreams her
troubles seem to be over. Then her idolised
son throws up his profession in London, buys
a garage in the neighborhood, gets the post-
master’s girl into trouble and has to marry
her. This causes Mr. Paunceforde, the
parson, to drop the sinner’s sister, and the
younger girl has an irregular infant by an
artist. It is stark tragedy from the stand-
point of an upper middle-class English
widow. Still she has her children, and their
children. “When the accounts of any life-
work are made up,” says her wise old
friend Hugh, “this is the normal balance” ;
and the reader agrees. A brilliant, and in 1
places beautiful, book.
The Open Secret (Heinemann; 65.) is
a disappointing specimen of the work of
Oliver Onions. He never writes badly, hut
he can be tedious, and he is very tedious
in this romance of the machinations of post-
war plotters. The conspirators are madden-
ingly vague. Terror stalks, humble lives are
ruined, bodies fall like leaves on Vallombrosa,
but right to the end it is impossible to
identify the criminals responsible, or to say
whether they are Bolshies or Fascists. It is
the same with the principal characters. Hal,
the Old Etonian turned bagman; Clarry,
the Cockney lad who worships him; Bettine,
whom Hal loves, and others, are splendidly
drawn, and the reader gets interested in
them. And then the yarn suddenly fades
out with no hint of what their futures are
to be. If this is an experiment in a new
story-telling technique it can be rated with-
out hesitation as a failure.
And a Little Verse
WINE CIRCUS.
’Tis Rhenish makes the world go round....
Then Rhenish give to me;
Though' graver heads, and more profound,
Uphold sobriety.
They only see the stars, where I,
Between my cups, admire
Bright-spangled children leap the sky
Through hoops of golden fire.
N.S.W
HUGH McCRAE.
FALLEN BLOSSOMS.
To-morrow you will still feel sad, and walk
Among our roses, and your eyes will shine,
Then cloud with tears. You will recall our
talk,
And all my ways and everything of mine.
And you will hear to-day’s bird sing again
To-morrow; and to-day’s joy will be pain.
But when the season of the rose is gone,
The blossoms fallen, like forgotten words
We spoke to-day, and you have seen upon
This bough a hundred other singing birds,
You will but smile and nod and half-
remember....
Rose dies, song ends; June comes not to
December.
LONDON.
D. P. McGUIRE.
MAMMOTH.
My fate is hard;
I wandered far and wide;
The whole North knew my bulk and my
sweep of tusk
And my shaggy hide.
My race has gone;
Our sun has set;
But the peat-moss held my hones and my
skin, and the world
Could not forget.
Now I am made
A child of shame;
Picture palace and Sunday editions and
sales of hose
Have stolen my name.
MAORI LAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Denman L.: Last page is the best, and not
because it’s the last, either... .C.C.S.: Feeble on
its feet, and mostly unreal.... Michael P.: Not very
well worked out; but it commanded a second read-
ing.... Charles England: Bit off our beat—especially
just new when space is too precious to allow of
wandering... .A.E.Y.: Your ideas are always worth
more careful handling. And this is too discursive.
... . T.P.8.: f ‘Course” has ' a flat finish... .Morris
H.: Well told, but slender.... Simon L.: Returned
with regret; printed many worse... .N.S.M.: Same
to you. Not so good a yarn, but subject more cheer-
ful. ' And that’s a fair start for a story, these times.
....James E. B.: Too artificial to give a thrill....
Leon B.: Much improved ; but still not ' quite....
R.8.F.: All muddled in the telling. Put it by for
six months, then come back to it; this will prob-
ably be the best lesson in story-writing you could
have.... J.W.S.: As illuminating as a stock-exchange
circular to a South Sea islander ... .C.A.W.: “I am
sorry my last article was returned; if you return
this one, for goodness’ sake tell me why.” Because
there’s nothing in it but trite reflections and a bit
of execrable rhyme... .E.A.S.: Quite hopeless....
Habet: A most appropriate pen-name in this instance.
. ...T.M.E.; But it doesn’t take a fortnight to
form an opinion on a verse like that!... .E.0.T.:
The muse of depression is now leading the field by
a lap and a half... .D.C.J.W.: Not without lyric
merit, but do not raise wild enthusiasm. Publish-
ing in book form would almost surely be at your
own expense, and chance of profitable sale seems
slender... .R.E.: Plead guilty to missing the joke.
. ...S.L.: Suggest that you might do something if
you set your mind to it.... Cactus: Something good
in them all, but none is good enough... .E.M.: No
thanks for “The Buggy Ride”.... T. 5.0.; “855
words” describes it nicely... .T.W.: Best on its
topic so far, but it’s a depressing topic A.L.C.:
No worse than the average anthem; better than
most in places. .. .G.L.H.: Happy to take your word
for it that with the ghosts of drovers “the West
dost sumptuously teem”.... C.N.0.: Becomes mono-
tonous after the first dozen stanzas... .L.H.P.: Sin-
cere; pity the verse won’t carry it... .R.H.C.: The
touch at the end saves it from triteness, but it’s
still thin... .T.N.: Tragic rhyme scheme. .. .H.C.:
Unrhymed sonnets sadly declined... .S.W.: “And
stormed G. Britain’s pride” is its best effect....
Bellerive: Another stirring instalment: : —
DAVE McNAMARA, CELEBRATED VICTORIAN
FOOTBALLER.
A brilliant distant kicker,
Shifty, fast and tall,
Forceful in a scrimmage,
And wonder with the ball.
He reigned a clever master
Of the fascinating game.
He’s tactics as a player
Were a credit to he’s name.
(Next week: “Phelps v. Bert Barry. Positively
final instalment of this great sporting serial.)
. ...G.M.M.: Falls short because of length and lack
of point.... G.F.R.: But surely you recognise ’ that
dropping of initial capitals is practised by would-be
moderns in the belief that this alone makes their
work modern. Most of those who drop them , write
rubbish G.A.8.: No room for it.. ..M.T.: Afraid
so 0.F.: Might be a market for the nature
notes elsewhere... .P.F.: It takes a Tennyson to
drop rhyme in that kind of verse and get away
with it.... Back Block: Has the stamp of truth on
it, but treatment brings the other stamp into use.
. ...J.H.F.: Weren’t gripped by your octopus....
M.M.: Moody motor-wrecker is the tenth dumped
this week. .. . J.S.: A poor finish... .J.R.R.: Others
have covered that ground better... .W.M.F.: Neither
will 'do... .E.A.P.: Footling.. .'.K.8.: Burdened with
impossibilities. .. .A. 8.: Not keen on mere descrip-
tions of butcheries... .G.8.L.: Just ordinary....
G. : Put your thinking beret on again... .W.S.:
Dreadful... .N.J.: Plenty of room for improvement.
. ...D.M.D.: That’s one camp-fire we don’t want to
warm our feet at. .. .A.8.M.: Knowledge is market-
able, but not in the way you present it. . . .A.J.:
Effort to cultivate an “expressionistic style” fails.
Now try being simple and natural. .. .K.H.: Nude
bathing party well covered in the w.p.b
H. : There should be a lot more in a story than
what you’ve put in... .W.M.: How did that mariner
get his master’s ticket?... .C.N.S. : Shall you lock
it up in a drawer ? Yes, and throw away the key.
. ...H.P.M.: Only worth a par W.E.B: Improved
little by the rewriting... .J.G.8.: Doesn’t hold the
interest.. . .J.R.: Too wordy....A.S.R.: Chance
meetings like that are too common in fiction....
A.C.H.: Unconvincing... .G.E.8.: Can’t svvallow the
ending, and the rest is tame... .R.W.8.: You nearly
brought it off. . . .L.E.: Promising, but neither good
enough... .R.T.L.: Try it on a Melbourne daily....
C.A.: Thin plot and guide-book descriptions....
G:D.: A half-told tale J.W.8.: If he was that
sort he wouldn’t have remained so long a police-
man. .. .J.T.P.: Office-cleaner empties out three or
four long-lost brothers every week.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.R.J.: Want the class of drawing we publish—
and better if we can get ’em... .F.M.G.: Don’t like
the early-morning row on the draughts-board
E. 8.: Too stiff... .W. 8.: Muddy wash work and
uneven line drawings. .. .G.M.E.: Evidence of labor,
but lifeless... .D.H.: Idea fair; drajving hopeless.
. ...C.M.C.: Join up your lines... .R.M.: Just a
lot of haphazard strokes.... T.C.: All artistic wall-
flowers.... J.M.: You!ve. drawn a few stiff outlines
and poured the details in... .M.K.P.: You need a
few more years’ practice.... N.F.R.: You would
never get a model to pose like that.... J.M.C.: Of
no consequence... .A.K.: Its reception was frosty.
. ...J.W.: All we got out of it was eyestrain....
P.A.8.: Don’t care to think how it would look
reproduced. .. .S.F.R.: Below the mark... .H.A.:
Ragged lines and inferior jokes... .G.1.W.: More
polish needed... .Brad: There’s no assurance about
any of them. ..-8.A.J.: You have a queer notion
of what constitutes a cartoon. . . .A.H.R. : They won’t
face the process-engraver’s camera.... G.V.: Had the
couple on the wharf toppled into the water the
picture would have been improved... .M.E.J.: Joke
unintelligible.


. .
diamond joii
msß
i 1
m
m
■
wmM
v ■ 'JH|
llilllllllM«iiMM^»SSMSllMWW@
•:>J
m
mm
m
f 4
■ m
TTj liilß
an
;
SHI
‘ /
mam
I
a
H
■
■ '4
f
in
1
■
•* >" *•»
i
n ■
LA
H
BC
i . ■
■
m
ZM A I I
VJ^C&fc# w.._ • i . ’1
Iff II
■
,
v
11
anHnnMgi
MHMI
wiiHHnll
. ’ v s' *'
/ jr./ , *
I *: ■' 1= 0I ■ 1
IMJKf f
fa,. •-=-
£
'■ : '' ra
(r
m :■/■'■■
HBt SSI??
"Mr ' •


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2660.
February 4, 1931.
“NOW, YOU JUST WATCH ME!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.O.t.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: Sd. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
MAORILAND POETS, by O. N. Gillespie .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
THE MAITLAND COAL MERGER .. ..14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
“IN ACTION WITH THE POPGUN HUSSARS”
(drawings by Frith) .. .. ..18
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 19
INFLATION AND THE TRADER . . . . 19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. . . 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
New Serial—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
SHADOW SHOWS 33
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . 32, 34
COMPLETE STORY—
“ ’POSSUMS AND A BEREAVEMENT”—
By Steele Rudd 37, 38
VERSE—By Hugh McCrae, D. P. McGuire,
Arnold Wall, Roderie Quinn, Llywelyn
Lucas .. .. .. .. .. 5, 38
OUR LOAD OF INTEREST.
It is quite true that rates of interest,
instead of falling, as, say, wages have done,
have generally tended upwards. Overdraft
rates, for instance, were lifted a few months
ago. But that by no means settles the
argument whether the moneylender has
been sharing in the general sacrifice. Inter-
est has been defined as the rent of capital.
But it is more than that. Part of it is a
contribution to a reserve for bad debts. In
many cases the greater part of the so-called
interest is required by this insurance fund.
At a given time all money in a country is
worth approximately the same amount.
That is to say, there is only one true rate
of interest: the variations are governed
by the risks that repayment will not be
made or interest payments maintained.
Such losses reduce the actual rate of interest
very seriously. Suppose a man pays an-
other 8 per cent, on £lOOO, continues to pay
it for 20 years, and then fails. If out of
the 8 per cent, the lender put by 3 per cent,
p.a., and invested it at compound interest
at 5 per cent., it would take 20 years to
amount to £lOOO. Thus a man who lends
another £lOOO on second mortgage at 8 per
cent, and makes a complete loss at the end
of 20 years has not received more than
5 per cent, interest, the other 3 per cent,
being required to provide an insurance fund
to cover the final loss. And because risks
have increased tremendously of late, it fol-
lows that, although nominal rates of interest
have increased, actual rates have fallen seri-
ously. Many a mortgagee who thought
he was in fairly comfortable circumstances
is in difficulties in spite of the rise in
nominal rates of interest: and many a
banker, if he dared to realise all his securi-
ties, would be absolutely and irretrievably
broke.
We can therefore rule out the story that
the moneylender is the only person in the
community who has not shared in the
general sacrifice. Those who make the
statement do not know that interest has to
provide an insurance fund as well as rent
of capital.
From this it is obvious that if there
were no risks of loss of capital there would
be no justification for high rates of
interest. A plentiful supply of money will
reduce the rent of capital—that is, the
interest proper —but nothing but a reduction
of risks will reduce the insurance premium
which is part of the money paid as inter-
est. Hence if a Government wishes to
automatically lower interest rates it will aim
at two things: (1) increase in capital avail-
able; (2) reduction of the risk of loss. There
are certain losses which are more or less
inevitable, just as there are in a fire insur-
ance office. It is not these known risks
that are dreaded: it is the unknown. That
is why people are buttoning up their pockets
to-day in Australia, and in N. S. Wales par-
ticularly; that is why they are paying 30
per cent, premium on exchange to get their
capital to a place where they know, or think
they know, what will happen. Until the
Governments of Australia settle down and
work to a plan there will be uncertainty;
and while there is uncertainty there will
be high interest rates automatically, among
other things.
But it does not follow from this that there
should be no special effort to deal with
this interest problem. The question is,
Can we justify any legislative interference,
and, if so, to what extent? Jones, a gam-
bler, bought and sold some subdivision
allotments and made £lOOO. He at once
proceeded to build flats worth £lO,OOO. He
took a first and a second mortgage for
£9OOO. A 10 per cent, rise would have
enabled him to clear 100 per cent, on his
capital; and 10 per cent, rises were common.
Unfortunately he misjudged: the financial
crisis arrived just as the job was finished.
To-day Jones cannot sell and he cannot pay
interest out of his rentals. He is in great
danger of losing his £lOOO. And why
shouldn’t he be? There is no ground for
legislative intervention in a case of that sort
any more than there is in the case of Smith,
who is in trouble through backing the wrong
horse for the Anniversary Handicap. On
the other side, take the case of this old
lady, Mrs. Perkins. Perkins was a carpenter.
For 40 years he lived in his little suburban
home, a model citizen, putting by a few
shillings whenever he could to buy some
small comforts for himself in his own old
age and more for his helpmate should he be
taken first. When he died there were a few
hundred pounds in the Savings Bank and
elsewhere, and they were put partly on fixed
deposit and partly lent on mortgage. To-
gether they don’t bring the old lady more
than 30s. a week, and on that she lives.
There are thousands of Perkinses up and
down Australia, and The Bulletin insists
that the State should think very seriously
before it takes a penny from them. The
thing may have to be done; but the people
who can do it without any misgivings are
surely lacking in imagination.
The final question, however, must be:
What does the safety of the State demand
—demand even of the Perkinses? Our over-
whelming need is production. Those 36
millions per annum that we owe abroad
for interest, to which are now added over
10 millions for exchange, cannot be forgot-
ten for a moment. We imported anything
up to 150 millions a year; but we can cut
that down by two-thirds. The other one-
third we shall probably find it impossible
to do without for a few more years to come,
unless we slip far down the scale. We must
produce to pay our interest and for the in-
dispensable imports. These producers, there-
fore, stand apart from all other citizens.
Outside them there may be cases of great
hardship. But there is not the national call
to assist them. To help the borrower we
must inevitably tread upon the toes of the
lender; and the more unoffending toes we
can avoid treading upon the better.
If we decide that the interest burden on
these people must be lightened, we shall find
ways of doing it. There will be complica-
tions, of course. The banks will have to make
the largest concessions, because they are the
largest creditors ; and in turn they will have
to get concessions from their creditors,
chiefly their depositors. So long as it is
made quite clear that the remission is
exclusively in the interests of the produc-
tion which is essential to our solvency, there
will be very few cries of protest from those
who find their interest cut down by 1 p.c.
or so. For the cut will not have to be
severe, seeing that, so far as banks are
concerned, it will necessarily have to apply
to a great deal of deposit money not
employed in pastoral or agricultural
advances. Anything in the shape of a large
cut in deposit rates would indeed not be
practicable in view of the keen competition
of the Governments for the public’s invest-
ment money.
UP TO SCULLIN NOW.
It is up to Scullin now. Soon after his
return from Europe he confided to inter-
viewers that he was the most humble man
in Australia, and no doubt he felt and
meant it. The time has come when he
must think less of his humility and more
of the fact that' he is Prime Minister-
less of his limitations and more of his
obligations. He knows himself for a plain,
simple man. He is none the worse for
being all that. The most successful Trea-
surers Australia has ever had were plain,
simple men —George Turner for example.
The worst have been doctrinaires with a
good conceit of themselves, full of fleeting
fads and momentary fancies—Theodore for
example.
For 15 months we have been playing with
fantastic schemes and have got nowhere
except into greater difficulties. Yet the
case was plain and simple from the very
beginning. We got into trouble through
living beyond our means and then fell fur-
ther into trouble through a market slump
in all our principal products. The answer
to that the simplest, plainest man knows.
The same thing has happened to most of
us, and if we have been wise we have cut
down our expenditure at once. There is no
other way. Millions of men in different
ages have rebelled against doing it, and
have made all sorts of weird plans to avoid
the inevitable. None have ever succeeded,
and none ever will succeed so long as two
and two make four and neither more nor
less.
Before he went to the Imperial Confer-
ence Scullin saw this clearly, and there is
no reason to believe that he sees it less
clearly now. All that got in the way was
this humility of his. In the presence of
these fantastic schemes which he did not
understand, it is quite obvious he felt that
his own ideas were too simple to be the real
thing. The best service Australia can do
itself and him at the moment is to help
him get rid of that idea. And perhaps
nobody can do more in that connection than
Fenton and Lyons. It will be a service that
will make Australia still further their
debtor.
As for Theodore, it is fairly certain that
he has no plans for the rehabilitation of
Australia, and it is doubtful whether he ever
had any. There are few men in the public
life of Australia, however, who are more
adept at carrying out plans that are sup-
plied to them. If the Prime Minister, taking
his cue from Saturday’s by-election, will
lay down his plain, simple policy, there is
no reason to expect that Theodore will not
embrace it; more than that, there is every
reason to believe that he will show very
conclusively that it is the only possible
policy, and that he never believed in any
other—and probably he didn’t. Of course,
there will be opposition; but the Prime
Minister and those with him will be able
to show that in Brisbane, where the basic
wage is £3 os. 9d., less than half as many
trade unionists per 100 are unemployed as
in Sydney, where the basic wage _is
£3 16s. 6d, the unemployment figures being
respectively 12.5 and 26.3 per cent. Further,
the cost of living is so much lower in Bris-
bane, by reason mainly of the lower basic
wage, that the purchasing power of £3 os. 9d.
in Brisbane is a shade more than the pur-
chasing power of £3 16s. 6d. in Sydney. If
this is not a complete reason for taking the
plain and simple way, it is at least a mighty
fine encouragement.
THE REAL POSITION OF THE BANKS.
What exactly is the position of Australian
banks? Are they, as was alleged in the
N.S.W. Assembly last week, bulging with
money which they might but won’t make
available to those who want it; or are
they so nearly cleaned out that further
advances would be highly dangerous? Are
the charges against the banks true; or are
those charges merely red herrings trailed by
politicians who want to distract attention
from the fact that they once more made
lying promises to the people and cannot
fulfil them?
The last complete figures are for the
quarter ended Sept. 30 last. There are 11
“ordinary” banks in Australia and various
savings banks and the Commonwealth
Bank; but it is the ordinary banks which
are being put in the dock. The figures that
follow are therefore confined to them.
These banks have put up a certain
amount of money of their own; at the date
taken (Sept. 30) their paid capital was
£46,315,886. In addition they have laid by
£38,715,841 of profits. The total, £85,031,727,
is the capital owned by the banks them-
selves. Their principal business is done with
money lodged on deposit: the shareholders’
capital guarantees that these deposits will
be paid back when it is called for. In the
’nineties not only was the paid capital wiped
out in many cases, but shareholders had to
pay up uncalled capital in order to make
the deposits good.
Deposits are of two kinds, current (or
free) and fixed. The former are mostly
money lodged for safe-keeping and conveni-
ence, and a bank must hold itself ready to
pay them out on demand—that is to say,
when a cheque is presented. If a man’s
cheque is not paid when it should be paid,
the bank is liable to be struck for heavy
damages. Fixed deposits are made for
various periods—up to three years. In a
big bank many fall due every day.
The deposits of the two classes in Aus-
tralia are as follows: —
Sept.,’29. Sept.,’3o.
Current account .. .. £99,827,866 £82,772,263
Fixed 179,665,924 179,757,446
Total .. ..’ .. £279,493,790 £262,529,709
But, notwithstanding that over 80 millions
of this can be called for any day, there is
a total of £257,642,430 out in advances
alone; that is to say, within £4,887,279 of
the total of the deposits, including deposits
at call.
There are, of course, the share capital and
reserve fund, provided for the safety of the
depositors. These, as we have seen, amount
to £85,031,727. But not the whole of this
amount is available for the protection of
deposits in Australia; this capital and re-
serve fund has to protect also depositors in
Maoriland and elsewhere. In Australia
alone, however, the “ordinary” banks have
assets of all kinds totalling £324,720,553.
That is to say, £56,396,437 in excess of all
liabilities.
What are those assets? Are they available
for advances? The list is as follows:
Coin and bullion .. .. .. £2,743,067
Australian notes and cash with Com-
monwealth Bank . . . . .. 33,021,725
Public securities .. .. .. 19,190,592
Office and other property .. . . 7,869,619
Due other banks . . . . .. . . 4,253,120
Advances .. . . . . . . . . 257,642,430
Thus all the coin and notes which these
11 banks have, spread over something like
2500 branches, is £35,764,792; and they have
deposits at call amounting to £82,772,263.
After the appalling smashes of the ’nine-
ties the banks were denounced up and down
the country for lending so much and holding
so little that they were unable to meet a
run upon their cash; and in the resulting
chaos tens of thousands of depositors were
ruined. To-day the banks are being de-
nounced up and down the country for not
advancing more and for holding on to so
much. Yet in Sept., 1892, the quarter before
the smash, the deposits at call were only
£27,286.741, the notes in circulation
£4,658,495—a total of £31,945,236—and the
coin and bullion amounted to £20,586,960.
That is, coin and bullion were then 64
per cent, of deposits at call and circulation,
while to-day coin and bullion and Aus-
tralian notes are equal altogether to only
43 per cent, of deposits at call. The dispro-
portion is serious enough to cause grave
concern.
Yet, in the face of these figures, we have
politicians trying to delude the public into
the belief that the banks might do more in
the way of advances; and the banks are
being threatened, in the hope that they
will be prevailed upon to do more. Only
a week ago one N. S. Wales member de-
clared that they had 40 million in notes
lying idle and doing nothing. Those notes
alone stand between depositors and ruin.
They, and only they, enable the banks to
honor cheques drawn upon them by deposi-
tors. To flog them on, to imperil the de-
posits and thus precipitate a banking crisis,
as some of these politicians would do, is a
wicked outrage—or would be if it were not
done in that stupendous ignorance which
characterises most of their actions.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Joint Reconstruction Cabinet.
What should a sincerely democratic Govern-
ment do after such a clear vote as that of
Saturday in Parkes? It was not an ordinary
by-election in which local influences count.
It was frankly a party test, in which both
sides used every ounce of strength behind
them. And it was a fairly representative
electorate, which Labor had taken at the last
general election from one of the Bruce Gov-
ernment’s junior Ministers. On that occa-
sion the Labor candidate won with 8769 to
spare; on Saturday it was beaten by 9437.
The swing-over of one vote in every three
is too great for any honest Government to
disregard.
There is, of course, no Constitutional
obligation on the Government to do any-
thing: it can just go ahead as if nothing
had happened. But no sincerely democratic
Government will remain in office against the
will of the people or attempt to carry
measures of which there is good reason to
believe the people do not approve. In the
circumstances a sensitive Government might
resign with a view to getting from the
people as definite instructions as a general
election can give. But that may be too
much to ask of any Government; and, at
any rate, the expense of a general election
is to be avoided, if possible.
These things being so, the most honest
way out seems to be a Reconstruction
Ministry, with party lines obliterated in a
great national crisis. On the one side it is
quite obvious that there has been a great
swing from Labor; on the other, it is desir-
able to avoid the expense of a general
election. A joint Reconstruction Cabinet
would be a compromise, which would avoid
the expense and at the same time give the
Opposition a chance to exercise some of
that Governmental power to which Satur-
day’s election clearly suggested that it is
entitled.
But if the Labor party should decide that,
in spite of Saturday’s vote, it is its right
to carry on so long as it can command a
majority in the House of Reps., one thing
at least may be asked of it: that it will
show some respect for the obvious wishes
of the people. It is true that it is not
clear what those wishes are in detail; The
Bulletin will not even say that the vote
clearly declared that Mr. Theodore should
resign from the Ministry. But there can
be no question at all that these representa-
tive electors of Parkes are utterly opposed
to any form of inflation whatever; and a
Government which would proceed with any
scheme even tending in that direction would
be so obviously flying in the face of the
people that it would be guilty of an outrage
on the very fundamentals of democratic
government.
The Tragedy of the Wheat Areas.
From a man who has been growing wheat
in N. S. Wales for 40 years, and for whose
conclusions on these matters The Bulletin
has the highest regard:—
A trip through the wheat areas of the sout
and south-west of N. S. Wales and attendance a
farmers’ meetings make one realise the serious
plight of' the wheat industry. It is indeed m a
desperate state. I have been farming for 40 yean,
and this is the first occasion when I failed to get
an offer for my wheat when it came into the
station yard. After hunting up an agent, the best
offer available for f.a.q. bagged wheat was Is. 6d.
per bushel. The bag cost me Is. (terms) or 4d.
per bushel, cartage 3d., leaving me lid. per bushel.
My average was 18 bushels, which gives me 16s. bd.
per acre. Super, cost 6s. and seed 4s. 6d. per acre,
leaving 6s. per acre to meet interest on mortgage
(which it did not), store account, rates, machinery
repairs and maintenance, etc., to say nothing °
labor. ,
A bank manager in the centre of one of
“safest” areas told me that he holds £4OOO wor
of p.n’s due February 2, and only £133 will e


met —and this is a typical instance. I have
attended farmers’ meetings and it has been necessary
to have a “tarpaulin muster’’ to collect enough to
pay for wires and ads. ; out of a hundred, 10s.
was a good haul. The farmers have no ready cash.
Workers, carters and others in scores of cases are
awaiting payment; the farmers cannot pay them,
and their wheat is tied up with liens. The store-
keepers are at an end of their resources and right
up against it.
The outlook is dangerous. Ninety per cent, of
the farmers are broke and cannot get a bob’s
worth of credit. An ugly mood is developing
which may lead to tragedy. I have gone through
many vicissitudes in the business, but this is the
worst by far, and what Cocky says about the poli-
ticians is blasphemous and unprintable.
♦
Exchange May Be Robbery.
Last week the premium on the transfer of
money from Australia was again advanced,
and it now costs £l3O 10s. to pay £IOO in
London. There is not the smallest justifica-
tion for the figure. If the community were
getting anything out of it there might be
some excuse for it and the process which
is being adopted to arrive at it. But so far
from benefiting, the general body of the
public is being penalised. Australia has to
pay interest on the other side amounting
to over 30 millions a year. Thirty per cent,
on that is nine millions, and that extra
amount has to be got out of the taxpayers’
pockets. This is no way to reduce costs;
yet the reduction of costs is of the utmost
importance. Indeed, we cannot hope to
retrieve our position without it.
All that is pleaded in justification is that
our producers are getting the benefit of the
premium. It is doubtful whether they are
getting anything like the full amount, and
if they were they would be getting it at the
expense of the rest of the community. They
certainly are not getting a penny of it from
the overseas people to whom they are
selling their products. But while the bene-
fit to the producers is thus highly problem-
atical, the additional burden on the gen-
eral body of taxpayers who have to pay
the extra millions in order to transfer the
interest on the overseas debt to London is
beyond all doubt.
The banks are simply engaged in a race
to keep ahead of the panic-stricken few who
are prepared to pay anything to anybody
who can shift their money out of Australia,
and the higher they put the premium the
more there are who become panic-stricken,
and the harder the blows administered to
our credit abroad. It is not only a futile
policy; it is a dangerous policy, threatening
the very existence of the private banks and
private banking institutions, and until it
is altered there is no hope for the restora-
tion of that confidence which is our great-
est need.
Where Is the Money?
“I am still a bit mixed as to where all the
money has gone. Millions have been spent on
buildings in my city alone. Labor got 90 p.c.
of the cost. Where are those millions?”— Bulletin
“Service Department” inquirer.
Let us trace £IOOO borrowed in England by
the Commonwealth Government. Smiths,
Ltd., paid the Government the money in
Australia, through a bank, and accepted the
Government’s money in London, where the
firm wanted to buy £IOOO worth of silk
stockings. The silk stockings arrived—noth-
ing else: not a penny was added to the
money in this country. In due time Smiths,
Ltd., sold the stockings to various people,
who paid cash for them. Smiths, Ltd., had
borrowed the money from the bank to pay
for the purchase; now the sales money is
paid in to wipe out the advance. If they
didn’t borrow, the money goes to their
credit. Brown looks in at the bank just then
and wants to build. He gets an advance,
and is handed the money Smiths have just
paid in. He builds and pays out most of
the thousand for labor. Robinson and
Jones and the others who draw the wages
pay the money into the stores for goods,
and the stores pay it into the banks, who
pay for probably another consignment of
goods in the same way as before. So the
same money goes round and round: the
fresh loans are represented not by money
but (to begin with) by buildings, railways,
roads, motor-cars, piano-players, etc. At a
later stage the new loans are represented by
nothing visible at all, because they are
required to pay interest in the country
where the loans were got.
The idea that because we have borrowed
millions we must have millions of money is
all wrong. At most times this wrong idea—
the idea that banks are bulging with money
—does no harm. Often, in fact, it does
good, because it inspires confidence, and
therefore attracts deposits and so helps to
make advances cheap—and for a young
country cheap advances are generally a good
thing. But when the idea is used—especially
by politicians—to squeeze more advances
out of banks than they can safely allow,
it becomes a great national danger.
The total figures in a bank’s balance-sheet
give no inkling whatever of its capacity
to “issue further credits,” as the politicians
call it—to lend more money, in plain Eng-
lish. As shown above, the borrowed mil-
lions are mostly in railways, buildings and
other such things. The same with earn-
ings. A carpenter averages £6 10s. a week.
He saves j3os. of it. At the end of a year he
must have £7B. But £SO of it is in that new
back room and the other £2B has been paid
as a deposit on the vacant allotment next
door. If he had taken the £7B to a bank
the position would be just the same; no
doubt he could get £7B back, but it wouldn’t
be his money—his money was probably lent
the day after it was lodged to help pay
for a new line of fencing outside Boggabri.
4
Community Singing—and a Suggestion.
Community singing is having a great vogue
these days, and its influence is wholly good.
It is bringing a bit of brightness into the
lives of thousands of worthy folk who—
in most cases through no fault of their
own—suffer all too many vacant hours; and
it is keeping a sense of human comrade-
ship alive in the breasts of others in better
circumstances who sit beside them. Com-
munity singing brings all sorts of people
together and makes them forget for the
while their petty party politics and class-
consciousness, as well as the worries that
oppress them, great or small. And after
joining in the old airs and laughing with
some kindly humorist like Charles Law-
rence, the Sydney leader, they go away
spiritually refreshed.
It is a movement which should be sup-
ported and supplemented. Our popular
songs are good, but our popular literature
is a great deal better; and a revival of the
old “penny readings” (without the penny)
would be appreciated by most of those who
go to the community sing-songs, and by the
multitude which has no ear for music.
The Rev. Charles Clark in other days and
Alexander Watson more recently have
shown what a public there is for readings
from such authors as Dickens, Thackeray
and Kipling, not forgetting our own Gordon,
Paterson, Lawson and Marcus Clarke. There
are not many Clarks or Watsons, but there
are plenty of men and women with culti-
vated voices and a feeling for literature
whose readings would give pleasure. And,
without doubt, if such entertainments were
organised, there are municipal councils that
would let their halls for nominal sums and
public-spirited residents who would find the
money.
4
How’s John Bull Getting On?
Britain’s MacDonald Cabinet, now ap-
proaching the end of its second year of
office, is wearing an aged expression. Things
are not going well with it, largely because
of the fanaticism of Finance Minister Snow-
den, who holds that it is better that Eng-
land should perish under Freetrade than
do well under Protection, or “safeguarding”
as it is called for preference. Snowden was
much the same during his previous term as
national cashier, but the first MacDonald
Cabinet didn’t last a complete financial
year, so he hadn’t a proper chance. This
time things are different. His first Budget
showed a deficit of 144 millions; his Con-
servative predecessor had a surplus of 184
millions the year before. Then Snowden
put 6d. in the £ on the income tax, which
his predecessor had reduced, and with this
and other exactions he hoped to squeeze an
extra 484 millions out of the community.
But he proposed to do such a joyous riot in
the way of additional expenditure that he
foretold a surplus of only 2\ millions after
all this effort; and" even that now looks
doubtful. Nor has happiness been bought
with these mil-
lions. The num-
ber of unem-
ployed in Sep-
tember, 1929 (the
MacDonald
Cabinet took
office in June of
that year), was
1,162,940. The
figures for Sep-
tember, 1930, are
2,199,658.
It is an awk-
ward circum-
stance that a few
of the Protective
(or “safeguard-
ing”) duties re-
main, so that it
is possible to
draw compari-
sons. Snowden
would gladly
have abolished
them for the
good of the
country in
theory, ’ but felt
that abolition
would have been
so bad for the
country in prac-
tice that he did
a compromise. In
this respect he
recalled George
Reid when he
was Premier of
N. S. Wales 35
years ago. Then
George swore by
all his dry dogs
that Freetrade
was the one road
to Heaven —and
compromised on
the sugar duties
lest Heaven
might be too
much of a shock.
Comparing the
first half of 1930
with the first half
of 1928, Britain
was about 26 mil-
lions better off
as regards its
handful of Pro-
tected (or “safeguarded”) industries, import-
ing less and exporting more. In the same
period the country was about 103 millions
worse off in its purely Freetrade industries,
having imported more and exported less. This
meant that the country had £103,000,000 less
of work and wages for its own people in its
unprotected lines of business; and, naturally,
they “go on the dole” to make up. It was
the first half-year on record when Britain
fell behind Germany as an exporting country.
Compared with the first half of 1928,
Britain’s exports decreased by about
£50,000,000 while those of Germany grew by
about £24,000,000.
+
“Pay Day in Russia.”
“P.M.”: “Pay Day in Russia,” a recent
Bulletin contribution translated from the
German by the late Mr. Beale, has been
criticised by Mr. Southern (B. 14/1/’3l),
who asks us to compare not Russia to-da,y
with what Australia is to-day, but Russia
to-day with what it was in the Czars’ time.
If Australia is so far ahead of Russia, I
do not see any sense in introducing Rus-
sian methods to Australia. It seems sense
for Russia to send pupils to Australia, not
the other way about.
I lived for 20 years in Russia before the
war, and have been there since the revolu-
tion, and I can assert positively that the
condition of the worker is much worse now
than it was before.
In the “Workers’ Paradise” of to-day a
man is harnessed up whether he be willing
or not; he is paid as little as he can live
on and less than he formerly got—to-day
you cannot buy as cheaply in Russia as
you could formerly. In the Czars’ day the
peasants and workers enjoyed their recrea-
tions; the peasants especially spent their
leisure in folk-dancing, etc., a happy
frivolity never to be seen these days. With
regard to diet, it is much the same, though
now it is very deficient in fats (especially
butter) and even flour, these being very
difficult to obtain in Russia now. In old
days there was an abundance of these neces-
sities.
To-day in Russia the worker, instead of
serving his nation, is the slave of a hand-
fu 1 of scoundrels
and opportunists, who
have gained and hold
the power on the
strength of subtle lies
and false promises.
4
Small Hope from
Politics.
Dear Bulletin, —It
is difficult to forecast
what the culmination
of the present crisis
will be, but it requires
no super-intelligence
to definitely say what
will stop the rot —
orga n i s ation, and
organisation only; we
must force the poli-
ticians to think constructively instead of
thinking mainly about the ballot-boxes.
It is useless to expect the 'initiative? to
come from the paid politician, as he iiiiust
be conscious that the first move will be a
process of elimination; and it is hardly to
be expected that such an individual will
voluntarily relegate himself to the political
scrapheap. Therefore, obstruction can be
expected from almost every human cog in
the political machine, as he may be one
to be jettisoned.
Stanley Baldwin, former Prime Minister
of England, on his inauguration as Lord
Rector of the University of Edinburgh,
quoted Dr. Figgis, the brilliant Cambridge
scholar:—
In regard to truth, the more one reads of man’s
notions about the meaning of civil society, the
more often is one inclined, in despair, to say that
truth has as little to do with politics as it has to
do with most politicians.
And this is the verdict of a learned foreign
observer at the end of an immense treatise
on the pathology of party government:—-
To the low types which the human race has
produced, from Cain down to Tartuife, the age of
democracy has added a new one-—the Party Poli-
tician.
Is it unreasonable to ask why those public
men in all parties whose motto is “Truth
and Honesty” do not openly revolt against
a system to which is attached a stigma that
is discrediting and humiliating?—-Yours
faithfully, P. J. Symes.
■ ♦
The draft redistribution of Federal elec-
torates in Queensland is voted unsatisfac-
tory by the party machines, so the boundary
commissioners must have done their work
well. The position in December was that
Herbert had 13,499 electors and Lilley
10,906 above the quota, while Kennedy had
15,210 and Maranoa 13,794 below it. The
transfer of the Wynnum and Sherwood divi-
sions will make Bayley terribly insecure in
Oxley; on the other hand, the new Brisbane
boundaries should improve Nationalist-pros-
pects there, especially if Donald Cameron
can be induced to have another go. Darling
Downs, Moreton, Lilley, Maranoa and Wide
Bay, all held by Oppositionists, look like
continuing in that way. Kennedy, Herbert
and Capricornia have been altered in Labor’s
favor.
THE SURE THING.
MRS. AUSTRALIA: “Why, you’re the quack that made people so sick and depressed up north!”
THE HAWKER (Ted Theodore): “Yes, lady. That’s why I know what’ll make people so well and
prosperous down south.”


è
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
adll »noi
é
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, ttc.
From all Stationers, etc.
Ik *C. HARDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil faraa
London Office—29. Kingswav. W.C.2
A Australian Representative-
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P. O. Box 165, SYDNEY,
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK”
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin at Ashfield on Jan. 16, as reported
by the “Labor Daily”:—
He asked his great audience to pay little heed
to the rumors which were abroad with a view to
splitting the Labor party. There would be no split.
(Applause.)
The applause was premature. Within ten
days Caucus had decided to re-admit Theo-
dore to the Ministerial fold; within a fort-
night Fenton and Lyons had left the Minis-
try and Gabb the party. And the honest poli-
tician from Angas (S.A.) says he will vote
against the Government when the Theodore
business is challenged by the Opposition.
On Saturday the electors of Parkes
(N.S.W.) set down in figures what they
thought of the Federal Government’s “inde-
cision, vacillation, procrastination, timidity,
evasion, quibbling, side-stepping and somer-
saulting” (the Labor paper’s expressions),
and, in a lesser degree, of Lang’s promises.
When counting ceased on Sunday ex-Minis-
ter Marr, who had been beaten 15 months
ago by 8769 votes, his conqueror being
A job well done in Parkes.
E. A. M'cTiernan, since elevated to the High
Court, was 8833 votes ahead of the Minis-
terialist, Martin, and 9437 if the “Economic
Reform” candidate’s total is credited to the
Nationalist and the Communist’s to the
Labor man. No Commonwealth Government
had ever lost a by-election by anything like
that majority, and the judgment of Parkes
will have resounding results.
New spelling recommended for the use of
Ministers and others: Astraylia.
Parker Moloney, back from the longest
paid holiday that any Commonwealth Min-
ister has had, and referring to the with-
drawal of Lyons, Fenton and Gabb, says
“I will stick to the ship.” Of course he will,
so long as it hangs together ; but shouldn’t
he have called it a twin-screw steamer?
Parkes wasn’t important, Scullin says: it
was never regarded as a Labor seat. Well,
suppose Scullin uses his influence with all
those of his supporters who are sitting for
wha.t never were Labor seats and induces them
t 0 resign. On the Parkes showing it would
be good-bye to Holloway, who fluked Bruce’s
seat; and Gibbons, who won Neville Howse’s
old Calare seat; and Cusack, who ousted
Perkins in Eden-Monaro ; and Eldridge, who
took Martin from young Pratten; and Rowe,
who ousted Bowden from Parramatta, and
half a dozen more. The Parkes turn back
from Labor may not be important, but
Scullin would be dead mutton if other elec-
torates in exactly the same position as
Parkes were given the same unimportant
opportunity.
About the nastiest smack in the eye this
country has ever suffered came to it the other
morning when the associated banks decided
that it takes £ll7 10s. in Australia to be
worth' £lOO in Fiji. The money of the
South Sea Islander thus holds up its head
inches higher than ours does in these early
days of hack-stair inflation.
John T. Lang has caught another herring,
and is excusing himself to the unemployed
by talking platitudes about the inadequacy
of the gold standard. Yes, and there are a
few other things wrong. Rainfall is inade-
quate in many parts of this continent and
rivers and lakes might be quadrupled with
great advantage. Our mountains are also
inadequate: a good central range 20,000 ft.
high would work wonders. And the inade-
quacy of long and deep gulfs is outrageous.
If John T. Lang will gradually discover these
drawbacks and discrepancies, and break the
news to the public by instalments, the un-
employed might be unemployed for seven
years and Dang still be excused.
Prodded by 14 of his followers, Vic. Pre-
mier Hogan is to call a Caucus for Feb. 11
or thereabouts to enable them to blow off
steam regarding provision for the workless,
the rationing of railwaymen and the fixing
of the price of wheat for local consumption.
Retrenchment in the overmanned
Railway Department has been
already discussed threadbare at Cau-
cuses and a wheat-price regulation
bill was side-tracked on Christmas
Eve, but a few more speeches may
relieve political blood-pressure or
deflate humbug. As to money for
unemployment, the tax assessments
are being distributed , along with in-
creased Federal and ordinary State
income demands, and the Hogans
will hardly dare to ask for more this
financial year.
Theodore is a clumsy fellow in
some respects, clever as he is in
others. He was in such a hurry to
become Treasurer again that he flew
to Melbourne to be sworn in.
Straightway the “Labor Daily”
sourly asked why he couldn’t have
flown to Brisbane to clear his char-
acter in the Mungana case —which,
incidentally, lasted for seven weeks.
Query ; Did Mr. Theodore, known to be
a student, ever come across these two lines
of Alexander Pope’s, about two centuries
old?
Blest paper-credit, last and best supply,
That lends corruption lighter wings to fly!
II Mr. Theodore hasn’t come across them,
then some of his supporters certainly have.
One day last week Communists flew their
red rag from the verandah of the Govern-
ment offices at Darwin, and announced that
they would camp on the verandah until their
“demands” were granted. A few policemen
drove them off and ran ten of them in; and
the familiar denunciations of “police brutal-
ity” are now heard in every capital where
the gin-case orator can get a crowd. Darwin
is saying bitterly that the usual weak Labor
Minister —in this case Blakeley—is largely
to blame, since he hastily released the ring-
leaders of a Red hullabaloo last year. Com-
munists in Queensland have also worked up
a strike against the shearing rate, though
it is still the highest in Australia, and there
have been some ugly incidents; but the
police, resolutely supported by the Moore
Government, seem to have the situation in
hand. Unlike the playboys at Canberra,
Moore and co. hold that a Government should
really govern.
State Governments are not allowed to
issue currency ; but they can produce a
pretty good imitation. At any rate, they can
“release credits”; and one of them has been
doing it for months past. The N.S.W.
Government rarely has more than a few odd
coppers in the Treasury; nevertheless it
issues “orders” to unemployed authorising
them to collect meat and groceries to the
value of tens of thousands. • At Broken Hill,
half of which has been out of work for
months, the tradespeople—-small men with-
out exception—have had as much’ as four
months’ orders in their tills, and haven’t
been able to get cash from the Government
for a bean of it. The same thing has fcap-
“N.S.W. Minister for Works, Mr. Davidson, sug-
gested to a deputation of stonemasons the construc-
tion of new and monumental Houses of Parliament
in Government House grounds.”— S. M. Herald.
MARK ANTHONY D AVIDSON: “The idea is to
buy him with your money to keep up
our dignity.”
pened in Sydney, where carcase butchers
took “Lang’s notes” from retail men till they
got tired. Then, of course, the inevitable cut
began, and the ss. “note” was sold down
to 3s. It is the best practical example of
inflation Australia has yet had.
The grammar school at Canberra, the
only high school for males in the Federal
Territory, was opened in 1929, and seems
liable to close with a bang in 1931. The
premises cost £22,000, and the contractor is
still unpaid to the extent of £3OOO. in addi-
tion to which there is a mortgage of £12,500.
The habit of being in debt is chronic, all
over the place, and this enterprise arrived
just about in time for the breakdown. A
school for which there is no narticular
“And I said to myself, when I came back
from England, there was no skeleton in
that blessed cupboard.”
demand is about as poor a security as a
chapel or a graveyard in a small way of
business. Any one of the three is no great
investment for a widow’s entire fortune.
From the annual report of the N.S.W,
Under-Secretary of Agriculture :
The average prices realised at Sydney auctions for
the greasy wool produced in the last five seasons
were: 16id. in 1925-26, 17£d. in 1926-27, 194 d.
in 1927-28, 16|d. in 1928-29, and in 1929-30;
the average values in Sydney on this basis
being £28,216,000, £35,629,000. £36,064,00),
£33,206,000 and £19,687,000 respectively.
There has been a further fall to Bd.,
and 1930-31 sales are not expected to realise
more than £15,000,000. Woolgrowers are
now receiving demands for Federal, State
and State unemployment tax on their income,
such as it was, for 1929-30 (the Federal tax
on that income has been increased twice,
and the unemployment tax is 7|d. in the £),
and the Lang Government proposes to use
part of their money, and part of what can
be wrung from the wickedly deceived far-
mers who were promised 4s. a bushel for
their wheat and from hard-hit business and
professional men, to restore pre-slump
salaries in the sheltered trade of the Civil
Service. If it perpetrates this political
crime it will have a taxpayers’ strike on its
hands. Perhaps the strike has begun already.
It was announced that the Westralian
Government had arranged to buy the Golden
Eagle nugget for exhibition at home and
abroad. Then it was reported that the
owners had declined to sell at the Govern-
ment’s price. Asked about this, Premier
Jimmy Mitchell said he couldn’t understand
it, and suggested that the Larcombes would
be fools “to hold the nugget long against
exchange at 25 per cent., which might break
any day.” Jimmy was right about the break
—but it was upwards to 30 per cent. If
the Federal Caucus has to get another Trea-
surer, perhaps it had better send to Larkiu-
ville for Dad Larcombe.
Nothing can shake Melbourne “Age’s” faith
in the Prime Minister. Even the Theodore
affair only impelled the paper that was David
Syme’s to a fresh output of butter: —
Mr. Scullin has proved his earnestness and efficiency
in the efforts he has already made to restore the
nation’s financial stability. The Melbourne Agree-
ment, with its prime objective of a balanced budget,
is being honorably regarded.
“Honorably regarded” is delightful, consid-
ering the idol’s own words at Ashfield:
“When I entered into the Melbourne Agree-
ment I saw the possibility of carrying it out
lt was not possible to carry it out in
full.” A New York politician, returning in
a disgusted frame of mind from the Demo-
cratic Convention at which the whirling
Bryan was named Presidential candidate on
a programme of free silver, was asked to
state his position. “I am a Democrat still,”
he said —“very still.” So is Scullin a party to
the Melbourne Agreement still—very still.
Lang is really a humorous cuss, even if
he does always look as though he were just
getting ready to bite you. It was calcu-
lated that up to a late point in his last
election campaign he had roared, barked,
snarled and made other noises over a period
of 395 hours ; and in that time he touched on
most things in Heaven and on earth and in the
waters under the earth. Now, whenever he
proposes to grow figs on his friends’ thistles or
turn his supporters’ swine into pearls, he digs
up the report of a speech he made in the pub
parlor at Countaquid, quotes a sentence in
which he mentioned figs and swine and
pearls and thistles and says that he has been
given a mandate to do these things. Nobody
knows for certain how many mandates he
has produced up to now, and as there is
obvious need of keeping a count The Bulle-
tin expects that a Registrar of Mandates
(salary £BOO a. year) will be appointed next
week.
A United States Commission, reporting
to Congress, mentions that “people of wealth,
business and professional men and their
families and the more higlily-paid working-
men and their families are drinking in large
quantities in frank disregard of Prohibi-
tion.” That means that everybody who
wants drink and can afford to pay for it
is drinking as before, unless lie is of such
a languid disposition that he would rather
do without than be troubled to find the
address of a bootlegger. Ten out of eleven
Commissioners signed a report which i.s said
to be Dry, though many people say it is
really Wet or Moist, or so undecided as to
be Damp. Seven out of the eleven threw
in a separate report apiece, and some of
these suggested that every State should go
its own way within certain limits. With a
view to the election, which for a Congress-
man is never more than two years off, this is
a wise precaution. President Hoover is said
to be violently both ways.
One of the N.S.W. Labor Parliamen-
tarians of the 1930 vintage is a confident
young man named Martin, who wants Aus-
tralia “to experiment and adopt reasonable
views”; for example, a managed cur-
rency. “In Soviet Russia,” the gentle-
man said in the House, “they have
had courage enough to adopt the principle
of a managed currency; and that is par-
tially responsible for the immense success
of their five-year plan.” “They” have also
wiped out their middle class and repudiated
their debts and stolen all foreigners’ fac-
tories and the like (for which reasons they
are still refused recognition by the U.S.A.
and loans by every country in which “they”
have tried to borrow), but these triumphs
were not mentioned. A London “Daily
Express” man has been studying the re-
sults of the managed currency, the five-year-
plan and all the rest of it at first hand. He
reports that it costs Olga Rcdsky the equi-
B OLSHIE (to personally-conducted Trades
Hall tourist) : “Now, isn’t that a beauti-
ful sight? And they all have a bit of
managed currency in their pockets.”
valent of flB or £2O for an ordinary pair of
shoes, and that the Moscow workers wait
“in the icy streets in unending queues” for
milk, butter, cheese and eggs from the State
rationing shops, returning with tiny helpings
to insanitary dens which, after 13 years of
the Communist Revolution, are still over-
crowded —“it is a common thing to find 1600
men and women in an apartment house of
60 rooms.”
“Midford”: The new Governor-General
could have vetoed the Theodore appointment.
If he had done so, his action would have
been in conformity with that of Fenton and
Lyons, who refused to sit in the same Cabi-
net with Theodore, with that of 19 Minis-
terialists who ■ opposed his return to
that Cabinet, and with that of the entire
Parliamentary Opposition. The Crown
(which is the G.-G. in Australia) has as
much right to say whom, or whom not, it will
have as an adviser as Ministers have to say
whom, or whom not, they are prepared to
sit with as a colleague. Such a right has
been repeatedly exercised in England, though
not since Queen Victoria’s time, possibly
because no occasion or excuse has arisen for
it this century. It might be an extreme
step for an imported Governor to take, but
Isaac Isaacs is not an imported Governor,
and no man is more familiar with recent
Australian history.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hotham”: The swearing-in of the new
Governor-General in Melbourne was marked
by all the pomp characteristic of aristo-
cratic class-consciousness, and must have
given the proletarian section of the on-
SPICING THE JOB.
MISTRESS: “My husband writes his engagements on his
shirt cuffs. I hope you do not mind?"
NEW WASHERLANDY: “Lor’ no, mum, I loves a bit of scandal.”
lookers what the French call mal du ventre,
Particularly striking were the postilions who
steered the nags drawing the vice-regal
chariot; they were arrayed in old-world
style, the same as their predecessors of long
ago who tittupped in front of the Great
Louis and his lady loves. Their white wigs
were perhaps the popular hit of the show.
It is alleged that the comments of the
postilions when these were being adjusted
and fitted on during the preliminary re-
hearsals at Melbourne remount depot struck
the only really Australian note of the whole
proceedings.
* * * *
“In Vino” : Some recent pars on the ex-
eellent qualities of Australian ports remind
me of an experience, of mine some years
ago in a seaport wineshop. I had asked
for a glass of burgundy, and the proprietor,
who wasn’t an Italian, by the way, frankly
owned that he hadn’t any. “But some cus-
tomers,” he added encouragingly, “reckon
port and claret mixed is just as good, and
hard to tell from the real article. Try a
glass of that.” I excused myself from
sampling his synthetic burgundy. Somehow,
I doubt if Australia will ever become a
wine-drinking nation.
* * * *
“Can”: Those ingenious Australians who
have been stimulating the public thirst
by introducing something rich and strange
into the beer market might do worse than
note a departure by an Edinburgh brewing
firm which is turning out ale of a quite
new color, a bright green decoction of hops
and malt. The stuff is said _ to be
highly popular, being consumed with equal
avidity in both Shoreditch and Mayfair.
It is the last word at fashionable
luncheon parties, and to be quite right
the items on the menu must all attune
to the color scheme of the shypoo.
What the poets who have for generations
enthused over brown October and amber fluid
are going to do about it, no one seems to
know.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Guy Menzies, in landing at
the somnolent village of Okarito on the West
Coast of Maoriland, struck the
nearest place on the Quaky
Isles to Melbourne. Okaritos
are much heartened thereby,
and vision the locality as des-
tined to be the natural land-
ing place for Tasman Hoppers.
A commanding landmark indi-
cating the proximity of Okari-
to is Mount Cook, with its
diadem of snow, which can be
picked up far out at sea.
There is an abandoned race-
course at Okarito, around
which cluster memories of
hectic days in the golden age; this may yet
become a resurrected scene of animation
with the development of air transit.
* * * *
“Oran”: The only church service I ever
attended on the water (B. 28/l/’3O) was
not an edifying performance. The scene was
a small vessel that had been delayed by bad
weather and was hovering outside a Maori-
land bar waiting for a chance to slip across.
The captain, a dour and elderly Scot, an-
nounced he would hold a service on deck at
11 a.m., and the dozen or so of passengers
duly Tolled up. For the crew it was a com-
mand performance, and when the Old Man
began to grind out hymn tunes on his wheezy
small-size harmonium three dissatisfied mari-
ners joined in with great energy and a
lamentable disregard of tune. The instru-
mentalist stopped and remonstrated with
them, until the language became unfit for
ladies, and compelled the feminine portion
of the congregation to retire. Nothing dis-
heartened, the Old Man began the service
again, singing himself in a stentorian bass.
But the determined trio sang louder, and the
argument began once more and continued
with unabated vigor until the captain, shout-
ing that it was the last , —-; church
service he would take on any ship, picked
up the ancient harmonium, and, staggering
with it to the rail, neatly dropped it in the
ocean. Omitting the benediction, he mopped
his brow and stamped downstairs.
Ss sis * *
“P.X.”: Mclnnes having won the Archi-
bald Prize for the sixth time, another fillip
has been given to the grouch that J. F.
Archibald never intended anything like this.
“If ‘Archie’ were alive,” it is said, mostly by
men who either didn’t know him at all or
knew only the surface of him—“if ‘Archie’
were alive, icouldn’t he curse!” He might;
but even that wouldn’t show that the wiil
under which one man can win the prize 50
times didn’t express his intention. Quite
true, J.F.A. was always on the look-out
for new writers, new artists; but it is just
as true that he stuck to the old ones and
rewarded them. H'e and Macleod owned the
wdiole Bxjxletin property at one time: for
one brief period Macleod, in fact, owned
the lot, but he shared it with Archibald,
who had lost his interest. To tie men to
them they began selling interests on easy
terms—first to Hopkins and Edmond, then
to a third, then to Frank Fox and Norman
Lindsay, subsequently to Alf Vincent and
one or two others. “Tie him up, tie him up
to the paper!” was always Archibald's
advice; and it may be that his prize was
intended not so much as an encouragement
to new portrait-painters as an inducement
to good home-grown portrait-painters to
remain in Australia. Anyhow, that’s the
other point of view,
* * * *
“Mells”: The practice of giving city elec-
torates names like Parkes, when there is
such a place nowhere near the city, doesn’t
seem to have much to recommend it. It
certainly confuses people in other parts of
Australia; for that matter, there are many
in N. S. Wales who wouldn’t have known
that the constituency was an urban one
unless the fact had been hammered into
them at a fiercely cpntested by-election. No
doubt it is well we should remember our
none-too-plentiful statesmen, but there are
better ways of doing it than tacking irre-
levant and often misleading names on to
Parliamentary divisions. When the Federal
seats for Westralia were first apportioned,
the late John Forrest, who didn’t run much to
poetry, suggested that “Occident” would be an
excellent label for the entire portion of the
State outside the metropolitan area and the
goldfields. Somebody asked if “Sundown”
wouldn’t be more simple and less classical;
finally. “Swan” was decided on. Presently
Dampier, the seventeenth-century buccaneer,
AT THE TOOT.
“The curate dashed off very suddenly in that shower yesterday.”
“Yes. Somebody suggested that the rain would clean a lot of the dirt off those
Greek nudes.”
was dragged into the electoral map for no
reason except to air someone’s knowledge of
history; and what was “Swan” has been re-
christened “Forrest” nowadays, which is pro-
bably as good a name as any other. But
why a large hunk of suburban Sydney
should be ticketed “Parkes” for Parliamen-
tary purposes is a puzzle.
4c * * *
“Adelaide”: An unusual Sydney-to-Adel-
aide journey has been made by Captain
Wriglit, marine superintendent of Canadian
National Steamships. He _ left Mascot
aerodrome at 11.30 a.m., missed the 4.30
Adelaide express train at Melbourne, but
overtook it by motor-car at Ballarat, and
was in Adelaide at nine next morning. Time,
21-| hours.
4! * * *
“Morita”: The average Australian views
the wearing of war medals differently from
the British or French ex-service man (B.
14/1/’3l). To many the
spectacle of a beribboned
commissionaire suggests
that he expects special
consideration for his de-
corations. Of such was
the seasoned oldtimer who
piloted us through the
relics in Edinburgh Castle.
Slapping the colors on
his chest, with one
breath he detailed what
wars they represented,
and with the next told us
he had no legal fees but
would leave it to us to
reward his services as
they merited. Much of the
value in Australian war
medals was lost with the
decision not to incur the
cost of battle bars, the
job of verifying qualifica-
tions being such a tre-
mendous one. A man who
saw fighting service in the
Boer War and previous
campaigns can be picked
out from his bars, but
with us battle service is
on the same footing as
the years of hanging on
to a base job. Possibly
this accounts for the
stack of medals at Military Headquarters
which nobody has taken the trouble to collect.
;j; ijj H* H*
“Massingberd” : The discovery of a brand-
new nobleman in humble surroundings gener-
ally furnishes some good newspaper copy.
The sixth Baron Langford, an octogenarian
colonel who took part in the famous Kabul
to Kandahar march, died the other day, and
London, reporters were sent out to garner
some information about his heir, a nephew,
about whom, apparently, there was little
known except that he was named Clotworthy
Wellington Thomas Edward Rowley. They
didn’t find Clotworthy, but they found his
wife, a waitress in a Strand cafe, and broke
the glad news to her that she was a baroness.
The lady couldn’t give them the baron’s
address ; she merely had an idea that he
was somewhere overseas, and after ex-
pressing a hope that the title would re-unite
them, she indicated her intention of sticking
to her job for the present. Then cables were
sent to overseas newspapers about the miss-
ing heir. One version had it that he was
diamond-hunting in South Africa and an-
other that he was working for a cocky in
the Westralian wheat belt; but lie was event-
ually run to earth in a Melbourne flat,
where he mentioned that he had served with
the M.L. forces in the Great War, and hinted
darkly of tribulations he had undergone while
languishing in obscurity. Whether there is
any money to support the title is uncertain;
there is no mention of any landed estate in
the reference books. A fairly recent baron
was an Irish representative peer.
* * * *
“Basque” : A sweepstake syndicate consist-
ing mostly of Australians, including “a former
member of the N.S.W. Cabinet and some rich
graziers from Tasmania and Queensland,'”
is said to have been formed in London
and to % have selected Andoora, the pocket-hand-
kerchief republic in the Pyrenees which has
for overlords the French Government and a
neighboring Spanish bishop, as an ideal place
from which to conduat operations. The
scheme has presumably been prompted by the
immense patronage secured by the Irish Free
State sweeps on English races until autho-
rity intervened. The Andorrans —there are
only five or six thousand of them—
are represented as being only too pleased
at being put on the map in this way in
return for a subsidy of £3OOO a year, but
what action the Governments indirectly con-
cerned may take about it is another matter.
If the British G.P.O. should take a dis-
approving view of tlpj enterprise, “We Com-
municate with Andorra Every Mail” may yet
become a sub-heading in the list of activities
of London tobacconists as a method of dodg-
ing the law. But it mightn’t work; what
else would there be to communicate with
Andorra about?
* * * *
“Sirsamuel”: The recent case of a Sydney
policeman who, when a man he had arrested
impugned his sobriety, insisted on being
formally charged with drunkenness, reminds
me of a happening on the East Murchison
(W.A.) over 30 years ago. The Warden
(and R.M.), riding his bicycle on the foot-
path, knocked down a constable. Noticing
that there were quite a number of grinning
witnesses, his Worship promptly and judi-
ciously instructed the officer to take out a
summons against the offender. Next morn-
ing in court, after the usual crop of drunks
had been disposed of, the Warden read the
charge against himself, and asked the police-
man if he had witnessed the incident. “Felt
it, too, y’r Worship,” was the feeling reply,
and the beak promptly fined himself five shil-
lings.
* * * *
“H'.A.L.”: Re ridiculous attempts at
suicide (B. 21/1/’3l). The most absurd that
ever came under my notice was that of an
old pensioner who filled his mouth with
gunpowder and applied a match, in the ex-
pectation that his head would be blown off.
The only result, of course, was a horribly
burnt mouth and an agonising time t in hos-
pital. Almost as stupid was a man Who
stepped off the Morphett-street bridge,
Adelaide, without troubling to look at what
was below him, and gave a canoodling couple
a bath in the Torrens, by dropping smack
into the skiff in which they were, drifting.
He escaped with no worse damage than a
pair of skinned legs; fortunately the water
was only four feet deep—none of the three
could swim.
* * * *
“Karalee”: Some £lO worth of gold was
“specked,” mostly by women and children, in
the main street of Menzies (W.A.) the other
day, a telegram mentions. Such has been no
infrequent happening in this and other mining
settlements after heavy rain ; at Day Dawn,
on the Murchison, particularly, a downpour
would set half the population scanning the
surface of the highway with desperate intent-
ncss. But poor old Menzies deserves all the
luck it can get in its declining years, for no
Westralian goldfields town ever aimed so
high and fell so low. I forget how many
pubs it supported in the peak days of the
’nineties, when it was the terminus of the
railway line, but, incredible as it may seem
nowadays, it once had two daily newspapers.
A couple of politicians, who were to rise to
positions of some distinction, began their
public careers there, one as Mayor, the other
as Roads Board chairman. They were Harry
Gregory, M.H.R., and Hugh Mahon, several
times a Federal Minister.
THE GOOD OLD LIPSTICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The excavation of a Roman villa at Frankfort,
in Prussia, revealed a metal chest filled with toilet
requisites. These included two lipsticks, chemical
analysis of which showed exactly the same ingredi-
ents as are used to-day.”
Your hair is dressed to show to best
Account your shapely head;
The subtly fragrant powder-puff
Your nose has dusted, just enough;
Your lips are cherry-red.
In short, my Kate, you’re up to date—
As least you fancy so—
Yet there were Bright Young Things who
knew,
’Tis obvious, as much as you
Of lures that win a man to woo,
Two thousand years ago.
They’ve found such things where Egypt’s
kings
Of age-old dynasties
Slept rolling centuries away;
They’ve dug cosmetics up, they say,
At Ur of the Chaldees.
Of course ’tis true there’s nothing new,
Yet, in some Caesar’s reign,
How quaint to think the lipstick played
The same old part in beauty’s aid
When woman’s charms were on parade
At Frankfort-on-the-Main!
Abroad she tripped as ruby-lipped
And deftly manicured,
This Roman bint, her chattels hint,
Her baits for beaus, long-hid, disclose,
As you, be well assured.
Centurions strove to gain her love,
Or I imagine so ;
Patrician knuts would crave a date,
And bards in verse would celebrate
Her spells (as some have yours, my Kate),
Two thousand years ago.
I’ll say she shone when they were on,
These adventitious aids,
The grace that grips in rosebud lips.
For men were men as surely then
As witching maids were maids,
And many a guy, I’ll bet, would try
That mouth to his to strain;
And some of course she would rebuff,
And others, yield to, sure enough.
I wonder teas it kiss-proof stuff
At Fraukfort-on-tlie-Main!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Clifford Snook” : The light literature of
Yankeeland is certainly the worse for Pro-
hibition. All the United States fiction which
I have read lately is strewn with the dead
bodies of bootleggers, police, informers, per-
jurers and others slain amid mutual drink-
recrimination, and the bribery, blackmail and
corruption involved in the suppression of the
traffic haven’t left a single honest “cop”
named Gallagher (they are all named Gallag-
her, barring his mate Ryan) available for
daily consumption. Even the pure and
beautiful heroine has become a steady cock-
tail consumer. Owing to Prohibition she
has assumed the aspect of a maiden who
wants booze so badly that she will become
a mild sort of criminal rather than keep
sober.
* * * #
“Coif”: “Findin’s keepin’s” is still a popu-
lar delusion, especially among the women-
folk. I recently met an old friend who had
been mixed up in a case of the kind years
ago. One day she found a small silver
brooch in the street. It was of little value
but of unusual design, and my friend, after
examining the “lost and found” columns of
the local rag without success, decided to
keep it. Some years after she was suddenly
accosted in a tram by another woman who
snapped, “You’re wearing my lost brooch.”
Explanations established the other’s previous
ownership and the bauble was returned. "I
wouldn’t have bothered,” said the lady who
had recovered her property, pinning it into
DRY MEASURE.
“My boy is so undemonstrative. He never
gives me more than about a bushel of
kisses.”
“A bushel—whatever d’you mean by that?”
“Four pecks, of course, silly.”
her frock, “only for its associations;, you
see I picked it up in the street myself.”
* * * *
“Lex”: The administration of the law
is influenced enormously by the personal
whims of judges. Innes (J.), of Sydney, for
example, objects to imprisonment for debt,
and, generally, to vindictiveness. When asked
recently to commit a philanderer who had
struck disaster in the Divorce Court, and
hadn’t paid damages or costs, he refused.
“What’s the good?” he asked, in effect. “He
has no money, and he can’t earn any in gaol.
The only effect of putting him there will be
to gratify somebody’s desire for revenge.”
Judge Parsons, of England, was faced re-
cently by a similar problem, except that the
penniless debtor was a motorist. He ad-
dressed defendant as follows :
“You dash about the streets and the country
running down innocent people. Then you say,
‘What does it matter to me? I have no money and
cannot pay.’ For the remainder of your life you
will be brought here from time to time and every
pressure will be used to see that any surplus you
have shall be paid over to liquidate this debt.”
There is a lot to be said for both points of
view, though one Judge denies the right of
an aggrieved party to use the legal system
for the purpose of taking it out of his
enemy’s hide, and the other not only recog-
nises the right but devises an ingenious
method of effectuating it.
“Farleigh”: In the present condition of
banking exchange I can’t help feeling sorry
for the old-time remittance man, who filled
so much space in Australian song and story
last century. Sorry, for his own sake, that
he didn’t live later, although I suppose there
are a few of the species left. Anyone who
gets money from Britain, regularly or other-
wise, is on a good wicket just now. i
LITERARY CONFIDENCES.
LITERARY FLAPPER ( whom he has taken to lunch ): “Another thing I’d like to know.
Why do you editors use blue Pencils?”
EDITOR: “Well, my dear girl, to make a long story short, we have to.”
know a young Australian for whom a legacy
has been accumulating in England during
his minority. It arrived a few weeks ago,
or the bulk of it did ; £l5OO-odd. A week
later it was followed by the exchange (£124)
plus the exchange on the exchange (£11).
This was satisfactory enough, of course, as
far as it went, but the fly in the ointment was
the reflection that, if the family lawyers
had only delayed sending out the draft for
another few weeks, £lOO in England would
have meant £125 in Australia instead of a
mere £lOB, with extras to match. Yes, the
poor old remittance man —Robert Louis
Stevenson has given perhaps the best picture
of him —faded out too soon ; how he would
have revelled in the present state of affairs!
* * * *
“Adelaide” : A woman motorist was the first
to be fined in the Traffic Court of _ Adelaide
tor driving over a tramway crossing when
warned not to do it. The point is that this
so-called tram is a heavy double affair which
has replaced trains on the Glenelg line, and
is safeguarded at level crossings in the old
way. The lady defied the official and his red
lamp, and ran things so close that in- all
probability only the emergency brakes on
the tram saved her life. Fined £4.
* * * *
“Garrick, A. 8.” : Four barques are loading
wheat at Port Adelaide —a. spectacle which
no other port in the world can
show. Said the officer of a
liner, viewing the masts and
yards from the Outer Harbor,
“It jolts one’s memory back
to the days when we used to
think that there was always
some kind of cargo which would
keep the windjammer going—
timber, coal or wheat. But these
lone survivors among square-
riggers are on their last hope,
and if wheat freights slump
their day is done.” This is the
bare truth; knowing what I do
of the cost of upkeep of a wind-
jammer, and the hole that har-
bor dues and a score of other
charges and expenses make in a
vessel’s earnings, I am puzzled
as to how Gustave Erikson,
owner of these barques, man-
ages to make them pay at all.
British shipowners cannot do it; only senti-
ment kept the last British square-rigger, the
four-masted Garthpool, going until she piled
up on the African coast recently.
* * * *
“Wongajong” : The “Tailor and Cutter’s”
expert views upon the sort of clothes that
poets should wear (B. 21/1/’3l) are evi-
dently far from being shared by the Aus-
tralian variety. I know most of our fore-
most living lyre-smiters, Quinn, Brady,
McCrae and a dozen more, and none of
them could by their dress be distinguished
from a school-teacher or a tramwayman
out of uniform. One or two, I admit, look
a bit poetical, but they don’t dress the
part from the “T. and C.” viewpoint. Among
the departed, David McKee Wright, with his
long white curls straying from beneath a
wide-brimmed, floppy felt hat, got the nearest
to looking like the traditional son of song.
An exception might perhaps be made in
favor of one living bard who is occasionally
seen in a red beret, navy blue jersey and
sandals, but the effect isn’t altogether
Byronic; he looks more like a new arrival
strayed from the Marseilles waterfront. Our
artists, taken in the bulk, show the same
tendency towards drab conventionality in
dress, though there is one who affects a
monocle, and another who disdains socks as
well as a hat.
* * * *
“Jungor” : Cue, on the Murchison, has the
distinction of being the first place on the
Westralian goldfields to produce a news-
paper. It was early in ’92 —two years before
Coolgardic and the southern fields broke out
in a regular eruption of journalism—that
an enterprising Queenslander dragged a
creaky liandpress and a job lot of second-
hand type over the scorching roads and
began to publish weekly articles on the dis-
trict’s vast mineral resources. The pioneer
editor was a blue-eyed, black haired little
man, with a pungent vocabulary of abuse
for his enemies and a limited acquaintance
with grammar and spelling. The first char-
acteristic enabled him to turn out a readable
paper for a couple of years or so, but his
end was unedifying. He got himself appointed
postmaster as a side-line to his literary acti-
vities, and presently letters containing money
began to go astray. In due course thefts
were sheeted home to him, and he retired
to Fremantle Gaol to expiate his lapses.
When he emerged somebody had jumped his
newspaper claim, and though he pluckily (or
brazenly) made a new start in another part
of the field, his handicap was too heavy. So
he shook the red dust of the West off his
feet, migrated to England, married a wealthy
widow (so report declared) and lived in
quiet luxury ever afterwards.
❖ ❖ ❖ Hi
“I. Temple” :
“The General Council of the Bar,” says a
London cable, “has ruled that practising barristers
may broadcast lectures on law, but it will not allow
the publication of their names or photographs.”
“Allow” is the wrong word. The Bar .Coun-
cil has no executive authority; it can only
advise on what is
seemly. It is quite
a modern institu-
tion, dating in its
present form from
1894, and most of
its directions ex-
cept the one that
a barrister may
not take less than
a minimum fee of
a guinea for him-
self and half a
crown for his clerk
are regularly
broken. For ex-
ample, “Prosecuting
counsel must not
press for cionvic-
tions.” Senior Trea-
sury counsel nearly
always press for
convictions in big
cases at the Old
Bailey; that is
what they are there
for, and former
prosecutors like
Justice Avory, who
presided over the
Gutteridge trial —
would be scandal-
ised if they didn’t.
Photographs
of fashionable Lon-
don “silks” appear
regularly in the
popular papers,
and you often see
prominent juniors
starred in the same
way. Thus the
handsome face of
Ernest Bowen-
Rowlands, whose
father was a Judge
and Treasurer of
Guay’s Inn, usu-
ally appears in the
“Daily Mail” or
“Express” with the
legal articles for
which he is fam-
ous. The truth is,
one finds exactly
the same phenome-
non in England as
here. “One man
may steal a horse
while another can’t
look over the
hedge.” A very
junior barrister’,
doctor or what
not who goes after press publicity is
regarded with abhorrence; the veterans grab
it from all angles, and no one says a word.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Someone has been slinging
off at the Austrian army because its per-
sonnel is composed of 10,000 officers and non-
commissioned officers and only 12,000 rank
and file. Actually, that is the ideal system
for a State which desires to maintain the
nucleus of an efficient force at the least
possible expense. With a cadre of highly-
trained officers and non-coms., a useful ranker
can be put in the field within a few months ; for
really efficient officers and non-coms., years
of rigid training are called for. The 12,000
rankers in the Austrian forces suggest that
the system laid down by the Prussians when
Napoleon limited their standing army is
being followed. They kept to the prescribed
numbers, but passed them into the reserve
after a short and rigorous training, their
places being filled with new recruits. As a
result they were able to muster a quarter of
a million of trained troops when the time
came.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The sweet-scented musk plant of
our youth has utterly disappeared from
gardens, as was recently noted. Probably
only those well up in years remember the
elusive and delightful perfume. A Vic.
nurseryman, hearing that a country amateur-
gardener had produced hundreds of plants,
ancient scent and all, visited the distant dis-
trict incog, and joined a local party who were
inspecting the garden by invitation “to smell
the musk.” They were delighted. He wasn’t.
It was just ordinary mint. Such is the
power of suggestion.
* * * *
“Pipards”: Cabled that a full-blooded
negro is included in France’s latest Cabinet.
The new Minister is a deputy from Senegal,
whence came the lamented “Battling Siki.”
The color line never amounted to much in
Taris. Things are different in England,
where some 40 years ago Lord Salisbury
could speak disparagingly of a candidate for
some London constituency in the House of
Commons on the ground that he was “a
black man.” He wasn’t very colored either,
being merely a Hindu.
* * *
“C. Sandig” : Some of those who have been
discussing the blowfly question would pro-
bably be surprised to learn that a valuable
use was found for maggots by doctors dur-
ing the Gallipoli campaign. They were
sometimes implanted into badly infected
wounds, such as compound fractures which
had become septic, and by eating away the
dead tissue soon transformed a sloughing
mass into a red granulating area covered with
a foul slime. On gently scraping the maggots
away the area would be ready for such
treatment as suturing, etc. The more the
maggots the quicker the result.
* * #
“Doric” : These days the suburban minnie
golf course is mostly deserted except for a
few children and a forlorn-looking attendant.
A limited few might have done well enough,
but when one beach suburb has 22 courses
almost jostling each other the business was
bound to become unpayable. Even a5O per
cent, cut in prices came too late. The one
bright spot is that many unsightly blocks of
land have been now converted into green
lawns and bright gardens, but the indica-
tions are that they will soon relapse into
wildernesses again.
Hi * # *
“Simon”: The legless prisoner (B.
21/1/’3l) who inconvenienced Sydney prison
warders was at least less of an infliction
than the freak man born without arms who
was awarded three months for stealing
a miner’s outfit. At school he was bright
HER CATCH SO FAR.
BREEZY MARINER ( second day out ): “Well, found a mate yet?”
SQUEAMISH PASSENGER: “No, only the third engineer and a wire-
less operator."
and could do many surprising things—handle
a cricket-bat, ride, swim and even fight.
His method in the last branch of sport had :
been borrowed from a belligerent billygoat,
and when once he dived his bullet-head into
a lad’s commissariat his opponent generally
gave in. But in gaol he became so helpless,
owing to his constitutional infirmities, that
the officials prayed to the last brass button
that, once outside, he would keep straight.
He did and despite his terrible handicap
died a few years ago at 60 worth £lO,OOO.
A HUNDRED AND TEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Shade temperatures of 110° were recorded in
Gympie (Q.) district during January.”
It's a hundred and ten in the shade to-day
and my soul is a cindered star,
Hung high in a heaven of blue-white flame
like a blinding scimitar.
Far down, in caverns of crystal ice, my
heart’s Nirvana gleams
Like illusion’s armor of thistledown in the
cobweb fort of dreams.
It’s a hundred and ten in the sizzling shade,
and the weather’s a trifle warm,
And oh, for a blizzard to cool the beer or
the bite of a boreal storm!
The way of all flesh is a grievous one and
it’s liard on a truthful bard
When the beef comes baked from the freez-
ing-room, and even the ice looks charred.
Cynthia reckons the weather’s great, as she
motors to Redland Bay,
Sharing the breeze wfith her Pekinese, at the
wheel of a Rolls coupe.
But for nine long hours in the molten glare
I’ve sweated and scratched for bread,
And, for me, somehow, from the scheme of
things the glamor and grace have fled.
Silent and sullen the lightning flares —-
Aurora in tropic guise—
As the thick dark oozes and clots like blood
from the burst and burnt-out skies.
Cynthia dreams in her silken sheets —and
here in my hell I write.
’Twas a hundred and ten in the shade to-day
(it’s a hundred and twelve to-night).
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


THIS YEAR.
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to conserve carefully and to spend wisely,
it is now. In most cases incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and consequently
reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money —it is just as much a matter of careful, useful
spending, but obviously the saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully. It costs nothing, but will help
you to help yourself.
faioiiwealtb Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Frank Gavan Duffy, Australia’s new C.J.,
has always held fast to the law and left
politics severely alone, differing thereby from
his father and his brother John. The former
was Premier of Victoria just 60 years ago,
as well as being a one-time member of the
House of Commons. The latter rose to
Cabinet rank as Vic. Minister for Lands and
P.-M.G. Another brother, Charles, three
years the C.J.’s junior, left the Bar to become
an officer of Parliament. He began as Clerk
Assistant in the Vic. Assembly and finished
up 30 years later as Clerk of the Common-
wealth Senate, retiring in 1920.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Whatever else
S’Otto Niemeyer thought of Australia he
didn’t mind friendly newspaper jokes at his
expense. He had a Bulletin caricature
run off, and used it as a Christmas card to
send to English friends.
Alfred J. Pollack, M.L.A. for Clarence
(N.S.W.), who has died with tragical
suddenness —he had been speaking in
the House barely 36 hours sooner —
was born at Grafton 53 years ago.
He was a contemporary of Earle Page
there, and the two were lifelong friends as
well as consistent advocates of the same
public movements. Pollack practised as a
solicitor in liis home town until Clarence
sent him to Parliament at the 1927 elections.
He soon showed himself a useful member
as well as a keen debater, becoming secre-
tary and Whip of the Country party. Office
might have come his way had he lived; but
he worked too hard.
George Albert Gibbons, the man whose
name is attached to the Left Wing’s scheme
of inflation, is an unassuming, slow-
speaking son of the soil in his early forties.
Thirty years ago he was the hope of Tich-
borne, the little village near Parkes
(N.S.Wf where he was born. At 11 he
gained the certificate which permitted
scholars to leave school —three years before
the average—and downed his copybook to
work on Adavale station. While still a
youngster he took up a farming and grazing-
property and set to learn all about the pro-
blems of the man on the land. He suc-
ceeded so well that soon he began to be
invited to appraise values and assess fire, hail,
flood and other losses. A keen Laborite from
early years, Gibbons was the first secretary
GIBBONS, of “the Plan.”
of the Rural Workers’ Union, a body later
absorbed by the A.W.U., and was for many
years chairman of the country section of
the A.L.P. annual conference. In the swing-
over to Labor at the 1929 Federal elections
he wrested Calare from the late Neville
Howse.
Joseph Lyons, who severed relations with
the Scullin Cabinet last week, has sat in
Parliaments for nearly 22 years, with no
break except when he left State politics to
win a Federal seat. Wilmot sent him to
the Speck’s Assembly in 1909; five years
later he was Treasurer under Earle; from
1916 lie was Opposition leader until the
turn of the wheel in 1923, when lie became
Tas. Premier, having established the same
grip on the Labor leadership as Collier has
done in Westralia. When he found his way
to Canberra, after Labor’s sweeping victory
in 1929, his State record secured him a port-
folio right away in a team wherein nobody
had had previous Federal Ministerial experi-
ence, and only one man beside himself (Theo-
dore) had been a State Premier. Lyons is
the first Tasmanian to make his mark in
Commonwealth politics since the early days
of Federation; it was emphasised both by
his entry into the Cabinet and his exit there-
from.
Albert J. Gould, who is to have a birth-
day party next week —he will bo 84 —is one
of the two or three men left who were in
a Ministry led by Henry Parkes, the man
after whom the electorate was named where-
in history was made last week. The old
warrior picked tough ’uns: of the 10 Bruce
Parkes’s colleague over 40 years ago.
Smith, McMillan, Gould, Carruthers and
Syd Smith were all known to this genera-
tion, though it is over 40 years since they
first sat together in Cabinet. Gould, a coun-
try solicitor, was one of the little syndicate
which worked the Great Cobar mine for
years and made a bucketful of money out
of it. Incidentally also, though he was an
inveterate Freetrader, he helped to found
the coke industry in Australia—in associa-
tion with the Longworths.
Gov.-General Isaacs is the fourth Vic. Law
Minister to become an Excellency. The other
three were .Stawell, Madden and Irvine, who
became Lieut.-Govs. while the full-timed
Cocked Hat was on leave or in process of
being appointed. Isaacs, Stawell and Irvine
each held the Attorney-Generalship, and
Madden was Minister for Justice. Each
rose to be Chief Justice. One distinction
escaped Isaacs which he would have liked.
He might have been Vic. Premier for four
months (January to May, 1901) before he
went into the Reps., but Turner handed the
job to Peacock.
Apropos the McDougalls, of Melbourne (B.
21/l/’3l). There are two of them, and both
have taken an active part in improving our
secondary industries and especially their labor
conditions. One is D. McDougall, of Sands
and McDougall; the other James, and it is
the latter, not the former, who is president
of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures
of Australia and has been appointed on the
Royal Commission on the Basic Wage.
Crawford Vaughan, a very young Labor
Premier of S.A. in the early days of the
war, when Labor views were more moderate
than they are to-day, has been out of his
own State since he went out of politics. He
is now returning to both, having made his
home again in Adelaide and announced that
whenever the next Senate election comes on
he will be a candidate on the Liberal side.
His brother, J. Howard Vaughan, and
brother-in-law Clarence Goode, both promi-
nent members of his long-ago Cabinet, have
yet to be heard from.
Colonel Penfield Brown, Methodist chap-
lain of the forces in Queensland, has
gone west at 75. Born in Kent, he came to
Brisbane after doing mission work in Por-
tugal. He served during the Boxer rising
in China as an ambulance man, and volun-
teered for service in the Great War, but
poor health prevented him from going to the
front. He was a popular padre with the
troops, and many Diggers who passed through
Enoggera will remember his kindliness.
Baden-Powell, whom Australian Boy
Scouts will soon be greeting, founded the
organisation “to, promote good citizenship in
the rising generation” only 23 years ago. But
the General was in the public eye long
before that; the defence of Mafeking did
more to put him there than anything else.
He is 74 this month. The son of an Oxford
professor, he began his military career with
the 13th Hussars in 1876, and retired in
1910. Active service commenced for him in
India and Afghanistan, continued in Ashanti
and Matabeleland and finished with the
Boer War. He has written many books
on scouting and one on pig-sticking.
Should Maoriland demand a home-made
Governor-General in the near future, the odds
are that the billet will go, as in the Com-
monwealth, to one of the Chosen People
Michael Myers, Chief Justice.
Westralia’s half-dozen Senators are a cos-
mopolitan lot. Pearce and Kingsmill were
born in S. Aus., Lynch in Ireland, iColebatcli
in England and Carroll in the Western Dis-
trict of Victoria. Johnson is the only native
of the State he represents.
Scientist Madigan, who looks after geology
students at Adelaide ’Varsity during Maw-
son’s frequent absences —he went to the
Antarctic himself with Mawson’s first expedi-
tion-promises to continue his flying surveys
of Centralia if leave of absence and funds
can both be obtained. His next ground will
be the country east from the Macdonnell
Ranges. The Geological Society of London
is financing the publication of his resultant
reports.
Edgar C. R. Spooner, Tas. Rhodes Scholar
for 1931, was a State schoolboy, who passed
on to Hutchins and thence to the University.
At Hutchins he took the Sailors and Sol-
diers’ Memorial Scholarship, the Philip Fysh,
and half a dozen other prizes; his Uni.
B.Sc. came to him in 1929. He will con-
tinue his science studies at Oxford.
Sydney’s oldest fireman, Chris Digby, is
retiring. Fifty-one years ago, when the city
was still satisfied with volunteer brigades,
Digby joined up as a permanent employee—
callboy to the city brigade. He has been
seeing to hoses and ladders ever since.
John Mills, of Powerscourt, near Maffra
(Vic.), left a big gap in the pastoral and
sporting life of Victoria when he died the
other day. Born in Ulster, he came as a
young man to East Gippsland, where he
settled down as a farmer-grazier. He was
one of those who heard the Westralian gold-
fields calling in the early ’nineties, and with
five partners he located the Londonderry
mine, of glittering but short-lived celebrity,
in 1894. The prospectors took 5000 ounces
of gold from it before selling out to Lord
Fingall for £180,000; that sanguine noble-
man floated it in London for £700,000, and
it proved merely a surface show. Mills
returned to Victoria and purchased Powers-
court. Racing was the chief interest of his
later days, and though he never achieved pro-
minence as an owner he was a well-known
figure on Melbourne courses.
Chief Judge DETHRIDGE, of the Federal
Arbitration Court, whose 10 per cent,
cut has led to foolish talk of a general
strike.
Edward J. Thornton died the other day at
Waimate, South Canterbury (M.L.), aged
105. He was 45 when he left Cornwall, his
birthplace. After chasing the elusive metal
at Kawarau goldfield he settled down on the
land, where he raised nine children, seven of
whom survive him.
Joel Moses Gabb, who sits for “Paddy”
Glynn’s old S. Australian seat in the House
JOEL MOSES
GABB.
of Reps., was the
first man to tell
Scullin what he
thought about
Theodore’s re-ad-
mission and re-
appointment as
deputy-leader and
Tr e a surer; he
promptly resigned
his membership.
Gabb has never
been able to
realise that poli-
tics are a sort of
game; he has
always insisted
on taking them
dead-seriously and
applying the rules
of ordinary busi-
ness to them.
That is why he is
always calling
attention to the
empty benches in
the House and
asking members to
attend, and do
their job. Back
home he stands
very solid with
the large German
element in his
constituency an
element that, was
never quite sure
what the melli-
fluous “Paddy”
1 Glynn, with the
most beautiful
brogue in the
world, was saying.
Gabb gave por-
tion of his salary
to relieve dis-
tressed Germans
in S. Aus. after
the war ; and they
knew all right what that meant.
D. Berriman, just retired from Vic. police-
magistracy, was chairman of the Commission
which inquired into the Williamstown muni-
cipal hubbub at the end of last year. It
was he who called upon the editor
of a Melbourne daily to attend and
be lectured for having published a fore-
cast of the Commission’s report. The editor
took no notice beyond sending, a reporter
to get some copy out of the magisterial stric-
tures, which were duly delivered, while the
other two members of the Commission tried
hard to look serious. It has been the cus-
tom for 70 years for newspapers to forecast
commissions’ reports, and the preliminary
flourish about which Berriman complained
was correct.
E. L. Kiernan, M.L.C., honorary Minister
in the Vic. Cabinet, is taking a trip to Eng-
land at his own expense. In his spare time
Kiernan looks after his furniture-shop in
Smith-street, Collingwood. Most of the
members of the first Hogan Government were
in favor of giving him the Agent-General’s
job in 1927, but Premier Ned demurred,
thinking that Wright, sec. at the agency,
was filling the bill well enough. A couple
of years later the McPhersons appointed
Leitcli, whose term is barely half completed.
“Avon”: William John Anderson, M.A.,
D.L., who died in the Shivery Isles the other
day, was Maoriland’s most popular school
inspector. After his inspectorial career
finished he was Director of Education for
six years. It was his due, but the kids of
Maoriland .sorely missed him. When Ander-
son strode into a classroom joy flew in at
the window. He judged us all very justly,
but he had his own genial methods of find-
ing out what we knew. What he delighted
in was a viva voce interrogation, which
always taught us something. I have one
unforgettable memory. The sixth standard,
of which I was an undistinguished member,
was being raked concerning its knowledge
of history. I disgraced myself by mention-
ing 1066 as the date of the Battle of Cressy,
but the dear old chap gave me another
chance. “Can you,” he said, “draw a Union
Jack?” As it happened that was one of
the few things I could do. He provided me
with colored chalks, and I stood out in front
of all the class and put the ensign on the
blackboard. Then he gave us a wonderful
talk about the composition of that flag—
stories of battles in which the various indivi-
vidual standards had been flaunted; tales
of deeds done under the combination banner,
and finally a little lecture on loyalty. I
think I learned more history and absorbed
more patriotism from him in half an hour
than I had assimilated from less-gifted in-
structors in six years. He was a graduate
of Queen’s Uni., Belfast, and had reached
his 77th milestone.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
«fePIONEER(W®
EATHE
Nothing Takes the Place of
Leather
For Power Transmission Belting.
Tests made under actual working conditions on all
types of drives have demonstrated the superiority
of leather belting. Pioneer, best of all Leather
Belting, ensures longer service, eliminates costly
breakdowns, and, because it is stretchless, full power
transmission is assured throughout its long life.
Every Pioneer Belt carries our guarantee of free
replacement should any defect in quality of material
or workmanship develop.
PIONEER Leather Belting
Manufactured by:
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Benson Bros., Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
West Australia:
Mr. Horace Summers,
9-11 Howard Street, Perth.
AGENTS:
Queensland:
Hoey Fry, Ltd.,
170 Edward Street,
Brisbane.
Tasmania:
Chas. Davis, Ltd.,
60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
South Australia:
J. McKell & Sons,
129 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
New Zealand:
G. W. Arnold, Ltd.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Wellington.
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maitland Coal Merger
On January 15 shareholders in Abermain-
Seaham Collieries approved of a scheme
whereby their interests are to be merged
with the coal and railway business of J.
and A. Brown, in which John Brown, “the
coal baron,” was the guiding hand until his
death last year. Abermain-Seaham itself is
a merger not 10 years old. And since the
Adelaide Steamship Co., a large shareholder
in Abermain-Seaham, also has big interests
in the East Greta, rumors are current that
this too will be brought into the fold, thus
placing ten or more collieries under one
control.
A new co., J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main-Seaham Collieries, Ltd., was registered
in Sydney last month with a nominal capi-
tal of £4,000,000, out of which Abermain-
Seaham and the Brown firm are to be
allotted 800,000 fully-paids each. In addi-
tion J. and A. Brown are to receive £200,000
in 7 p.c. first-mortgage debentures. The
Brown firm dates back to 1845; that year
James Brown opened a pit near East Mait-
land, and, incidentally, broke the Australian
Agricultural Co.’s monopoly of the coal
trade. The most important collieries now
being handed over by the firm are the Pelaw
and Richmond Mains.
Abermain-Seaham merged the interests of
the Abermain and Seaham oos. in 1922. Paid
capital is £1,200,000. This co.’s most im-
portant collieries are at Abermain, on the
Maitland field, about three miles from Pelaw
Main. Owing to the general stoppage, the
co.’s mines were shut down from March,
1929, to June, 1930. When conditions were
closer to normal the co. was a good profit-
earner, as these figures show:—
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 94,283 7} p.c. = 90,000 4283 4,283
1924.. 150,416 12f „ „ 150, 000 416 4,699
1925.. 120,256 10 „ „ 120,000 256 4,955
1926.. 121,677 10 „ „ 120,000 1677 6,632
1927.. 152,593 12J „ „ 150,000 2593 9,225
1928.. 90,465 74 „ „ 90,000 465 9,690
1929.. 26,747 24 „ „ 30,000 6,437
Loss. Deficit.
1930.. 36,124 Nil 29,687
But at present the whole industry is finding
it hard to recover lost markets. Overseas
business is practically confined to bunker-
ing, and even the local demand has fallen
away.
The co.’s balance-sheet figures do not tell
very much :—•
1923. 1929. 1930.
Liabilities.. .. £122,189 £56,796 £114,204
Book debts .. 101,153 1,586 48,128
Cash .. .. 467 12,500 644
Stocks and stores.. 30,1761
Investments .. 79,746 {-1,249,148 1,235,745
Mine, property, etc. 1,144,930 j
The increase in debtors indicates the extent
to which sales picked up during the two
months to the close of accounts. The col-
lieries and plant are in good working order.
The East Greta Co., which had made no
official announcement when the “Wild Cat”
went to press, has a paid capital of £600,000.
It owns Stanford Merthyr No. 1 mine at
Kurri, and Stanford Merthyr No. 2 at Pax-
ton. Even in comparatively normal times
there hasn’t been much in this business for
shareholders; over the last 20 years the
average return has been little more than
6 p.c. No div. has been paid since May,
1927.
Abermain-Seaham scrip recently changed
hands at 13s. 6d. Last sales of East Greta
shares were at 3s. 6d., but buyers now offer
4s. 6d., with sellers holding off at 7s.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 42,241 10 p.c. =■ 54,750 70,009
1925.. 81,065 10 „ „ 69,000 12,065 82,074
1926.. 89,090 10 „ „ 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 114 „ „ 79,350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ „ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 96,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
*Half-year.
Yarra Falls is one of a group of cos. com-
prising Australia’s biggest textile enterprise.
Formed in 1918, mainly through the energy
and foresight of Australian Knitting Mills
(chief member of the group), P. 11. Pearce
and Son (woolbuyers) and some British tex-
tile interests, the co. first, produced only wool
tops and yarns. Four years later plant for
making worsteds and serges was installed.
The A.Iv.M.-Yarra Falls enterprises made
great strides after the war; the energetic
Baillieu-Robinson people were mainly in
control, and, by flotation of subsidiary cos.,
ramifications soon extended into practically
every line of the textile business. Paid capi-
ta] of the two chief cos. has now grown to
£1,450,000, though £365,500 of that repre-
sents inter-company holdings. In 1918, just
before Yarra Falls was formed, A.K.M.’s
capital was only £BO,OOO.
Over the last two years £210,000 has been
added to Yarra Falls’ capital. That was
because of the purchase of all the 150,000
shares in the Globe Worsted Mills, Marrick-
ville (Sydney), in 1929, on a share-for-share
basis, and tho getting in of £60,000 uncalled
on the old ords. No div. was paid by the
Globe Co. during the 1929 term, and what
the investment turned in during the year to
June 30 last has not been disclosed.
During tho first seven months of the last
term trade was normal, but since then busi-
ness has been extremely difficult, and output
curtailed. In addition, there was a heavy
fall in the price of raw materials. Gross
profit (£112,053, including interest, divs.,
etc.) showed a. drop of £32,876. Exes.
(£35,050) were cut £13,762; thus the year's
net profit (£77,003) was £19,114 lighter than
for 1929, being 8.8 p.c. on average capital
compared with 12.6, 12.6, 15.2 and 12.9 p.c.
back to 1926. The final distribution was
3 p.c., making 8 p.c. for the year, and £6503
was left for reserves, now £171,650.
Gross profits are arrived at after makiug
provision for depreciation. At June 30,
1929, after transferring £38,858 from that
year’s profit, depreciation reserve figured at
£353,525. During the last term the reserve
was taken from amongst liabilities and
written off freeholds, plant, etc. The assets
concerned show an increase of £13,686 after
allowing for the writing down, which sug-
gests that last year’s additions to plant
were substantial, or that the year’s depre-
ciation allowance was much smaller than
usual.
The altered method of book-keeping shows
up in balance-sheet figures:—
1924 1928 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £690,000 £690,000 £837,183 £900,000
Sundry creditors
and deposits 91,786 226,109 99,455 236,464
Freeholds ( Q j 198,239 200,194 156,327
Plant, etc.) ( 546,947 559,117 263,145
Stocks .. 277,537 344,528 289,446 216,773
Sundry debtors 92,373 126,386 147,143 101,431
Advances .. 149,301
Cash, etc. .. 55,256 204,485 164,150 307,197
Shares in other
cos. .. 10,500 158,539 162,219
Plant, freeholds, etc., which cost over
£760,000, are in at £419,472. During the
1929 term the co. substantially reduced its
debt, the policy being to lean as little on
outsiders as possible. During the last term
liabilities (£236,464) increased £137,009,
mainly because of assistance given to asso-
ciated cos. Globe Worsted Mills received an
advance of £149,301 to finance additions to
plant and general expansion. Cash, deposits,
etc., increased £143,047 to £307,197; part of
this apparently was in the form of advances
to other cos. of the group. Since the
close of accounts, £BO,OOO of it has been
applied in taking 50,000 shares in A.K.M.
and 30,000 shares in Julius Kayser (Aus.),
Ltd. Stocks (£216,773) were reduced
£72,673, and are the lowest figure for many
years. Trade debtors are down £45,712.
The more or less liquid surplus (£538,238,
including stocks) was £36,954 stronger at the
close of accounts.
The co. is in a sound position to take
advantage of any improvement in trade. The
increased tariff and high exchange rate are
making the cost of imported worsteds and
serges prohibitive, and the Australian manu-
facturer should now have the local market
practically to himself. Already Yarra Falls
is spreading itself to manufacture lines which
only recently have been open for competition.
Q» the other hand, there is the reduced
spending of the public, increased taxation
and an uncertainty about everything political
and financial.
The shares are backed by £1 3s. lOd. in
net tangibles, and the market prices them at
18s. The return at that figure is 6.7 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney).
Written To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 14,883 12i p.c. = 7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 271 „ ~ 19,071 3735 18,247
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „ 6,955 4110 15,329
1922.. 14,394 17 „ „ 11,840 2962 14,921
Capital returned (ss. per share), £17,412
1923.. 18,607 21$ p.c.=12,554 2096 3957 18,878
1924.. 16,296 20 „ „ 10,474 5834 18,866
1925.. 14,307 265,, ~ 13,985 3070 16,118
1926.. 19,195 285,, „ 14,859 2994 1342 17,460
1927.. 18,141 26f„ „ 13,995 6750 14,856
1928.. 16,362 26j}„ ~ 14,000 4080 13,138
1929.. 12,569 20 „ „ 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 „ „ 5,250 3055 9,856
The bursting of the property boom shows up
clearly in this co.’s figures. Real-estate
activities, both of a speculative and invest-
ment character, have been dormant for the
greater part of the term, a large proportion
of property auctions for some months being
mortgagees’ sales. Since the close of the year
the position has been made more difficult by
the new N. S. Wales Moratorium Act. a he
slide from the boom years of 1926 and I*RO
when, owing to speculators’ activities, many
properties changed hands several times in
one year, is seen in the following table:
Property Sales.
City. Suburbs.
1920 .. .. £3.000,000 £4,375,000
1922 .. .. 3,000.000 3,500,000
1994 .. 2 100,000 3,500,000
1926 .. .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1927 .. .. 5,133,800 4,397,000
1928 .. .. 2,750,000 4,816,024
1929 .. .. 2,654,431 3,765,116
1930 . . . . 698,575 1,339,977
The two principal city sales were Rickard
House (practically a forced sale),
£120,000, and Stanton House, for £150,000.
The latter, incidentally, was bought by the
new Australian and N.Z. Banking Corpora-
tion. Richardson and Wrench got its usual
share of the business offering, but the volume
shrank by £845,184 to a mere £380,538, and
gross profit fell away £8636: —
1920 .. £36,690 | 1926 .. £42,795
1922 .. 31,425 1927 .. 41,225
1923 .. 36,250 1928 .. 40,488
1924 .. 33,567 1929 .. 36,854
1925 . . 38,565 1930 .. 28,218
Exes. (£22,961) were cut only £1324; thus
net profit (£5257) was £7312 lower, and
equal to only 10 p.c. on paid capital, com-
pared with 23.9, 31.2, 34.6 and 36.6 p.c.
back to 1926. That was before taking into
account reductions in the contingency fund,
shown as written off in the table, so reserves
were drawn on for £3048 in order to pay the
10 p.c. div!
Balance-sheet figures, as usual, show a
strong financial position :
1921. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. .. £69,650 £52,444 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities.. .. 20,424 39,311 20,064 7,316
Advances .. .. 71,810 43,410 41,880 43,986
Book debts .. 1,972 6,992 7,013 7,163
Cash, etc 31,881 63,964 38,531 18,872
Odds and ends .. 3,222 4,799 4,019 2,277
The co. reduced its liabilities (£7316) by
£12,748 last year, and an extra £2106 was put
out on advances on properties. Altogether
the co. drew on cash, etc., for £19,659. Good-
will was long ago written out of the accounts.
In 1922 ss. per share was returned in
cash; the scrip is therefore paid to 15s. The
quick rise in property values for nearly a
dozen years largely explains the juicy returns
to shareholders in the past, and that phase
of the business has gone for the present.
But the co. is held in high esteem in the
property market, and when normal times
come again shareholders may expect to bene-
fit. A year ago sellers asked 425. 6d. for the
scrip; last sales were at 18s. 6d. The
return at that figure is 8.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, and the backing amounts to
17s. lOd. per share in net tangibles.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£> & £ £
1917.. 9,948 9 p.c. = 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 ~,. 10,000 4,630 131,511
1919.. 10,012 10 p.c. = 10,000 12 l 11A
Written off, £17,495 j ul,w “
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64.028
1920 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 j,
Written off contingencies, £248 j ’
192!.. 2^ t 7 ten 1 o ° ft P- C £ 7 2 15 ’ 00 °J 8,895 86,885
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19,281 10 „ „ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ „ 15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29,420 10 „ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 „ ~ 15,000 14,744 139,513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ „ 15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~ 15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ ~15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 7$ „ „ 11,250 167,729
After paying a steady 10 p.c. for a dozen
years, the last ten of those distributions being
worth 15 p.c. to old holders, this pioneer
coastal steamship co. has reduced its div.
by 2i p.c. And to hand out the 7i p.c.
reserves had to be tapped for £1722.
The stoppage on the Maitland coalfields
continued to affect freight earnings during
the first five months of the term; then in
June, 1930, the whole district which the
co. serves suffered from a disastrous flood,
followed by a drought. The opening of the
Newcastle highway also diverted revenue, and
it was not until after the close of accounts
that the new Federal awards made way for
a reduction in costs. Hitherto the decisions
of the Arbitration Courts have usually added
to the co.’s burden. The profit claimed was
£5638 lower at £9410, but the unexplained
addition to general reserve (£110,291) was
only £llB, as against £5838 in 1929; thus,
profit as per table (£9528) shows a preci-
pitous drop of £11,358. No visible allow-
ance was made for depreciation last year.
The net result was equal to only 6.3 p.c.
on capital compared with 14.2, 21.7 and 19.8
p.c. back to 1926.
If the co. had wanted to it could have
maintained the usual div. by further drawing
upon savings; reserves, including insurance
fund (£57,266), were £17,729 in excess of
paid capital at December 31, and surplus
liquids amounted to £103,544, mostly iu
Government securities. But on only two
other occasions during the last quarter of a
century have reserves been bitten into to
pay a div., and then the nibbles were small.
For many years after the present co. amal-
gamated two rival concerns in 1891, large
Amounts were regularly written off the book
value of the fleet; when the bonus issue was
made in 1920 it was admitted for taxation
purposes that during the years prior to 1914
£BO,OOO more profit was earned than had
been disclosed. But it is doubtful whether
inner reserves have been built up on the
same scale in recent years; disclosed earn-
ings subsequent to the bonus issue showed a
greater ratio to capital, which might mean
that a bigger proportion of profit had been
put on view. Nevertheless, it is unlikely
that the old cautious habits have been en-
tirely abandoned.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1919. '1929. 1930.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. .. 23,557 15,789 12,487
Ship property .. .. 89,759 191,686 191,686
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,444 15,444
Plant, stores, etc. . . 6,040 12,151 10,505
Book debts . . . . 17,350 14,986 12,981
Cash, etc 108,332 108,473 103,350
Though no depreciation allowance is men-
tioned in p. and 1. account, the fleet is said
to have been maintained in good working
order. . Any repairs, etc., were charged
against revenue; thus the book value remains
unchanged at £191,686. Freeholds, etc., have
figured at £15,444 since 1926. Plant, stores,
etc. (£10,505) are £1646 lower. The liquid
surplus (£103,844) was £3826 lighter, but
still showed a very snug financial position.
Impressed by the co.’s steady progress
and strong finances, the market increased its
bid from 31s. in 1921 to 425. 6d. in Sep-
tember, 1929, obviously expecting a bonus
issue. Following the collapse of the share
market the scrip fell to 365. in January,
1930, to 265. during August and September,
and 225. 6d. recently. The backing amounts
to 425. 4d. in net tangibles at book value,
and the return on a 5 p.c. div. basis is
4.4 p.c.
Hackett Bros., Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
, Dividends Re-
June, Profit. Pref. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
46,456
[ Vendors’ share 21,425 |
1920. . 30,500 ( Pref. (8 p.c.) and ) 6,340 40,116
( Ord. (10 p.c.) 2,735 J
Loss. £
1921.. 27,180 4800 72,096
Written off capital, £25,640 ( g-Q
Incidental costs 355 j
Profit.
1922.. 20,978 4800 7 p.c. = 8006 8,172 38,639
1923.. 12,433 4800 6 „ „ 6861 772 37,867
1924.. 7,856 4800 4 „ „ 4575 39,386
Loss. (4 p.c.)
1925.. 10,295 2400 Nil 52,081
Profit.
1926.. 9,235 Nil Nil 9,235 42,846
Loss.
1927.. 1,721 Nil Nil 44,567
Profit.
1928.. 2,575 Nil Nil 2,575 41,992
Loss.
1929.. 12,444 Nil Nil 54,436
1930.. 690 Nil Nil 55,126
Floated in 1920 to take over Hacketts'
Burnley Leather Works, at Richmond (Vic.),
at the height of an unprecedented boom in
the tanning industry, this co. soon crashed,
and has been trying to establish itself on
rock-bottom ever since. It started off with
a paid capital of £200,000 —60.000 S p.c.
cum. prefs., and the balance ordinaries, of
which 40,000 were issued for goodwill. The
first year appeared to be successful, but in
1921 the hides market went to pieces, and a
loss of £27,180 was made. To help set
things right the old owners had £25,640 of
their scrip cancelled. This voluntary sur-
render allowed pref. divs. to be paid without
waiting for the business to recoup its losses.
In 1922 a good profit was claimed, but earn-
ings gradually faded out, and in 1925 a loss
of £10,295 was made. A half-year’s _ div.
was paid on the prefs. that term; no distri-
butions have since been made.
Over the last ten years trading losses
(£52,330) have practically equalled disclosed
profits (£53,077). In addition, the business
has been drained of £41,042 in payment of
divs., while arrears on the prefs. amounted to
£26,400 at June 30 last. Including these
arrears and goodwill, the deficit on ord.
shareholders’ accounts then amounted to
£81,526.
Business during the last term was stag-
nant; the boot trade has been in a bad way
for some time, and many manufacturers have
had to compromise with their creditors, the
tanners among them. The hide market, as
usual, was tricky. A loss of £690 was shown,
allowing £2347 for depreciation; that was
after taking stock into account at a figure
£7254 higher than in the previous term. At
the meeting, in answer to shareholders’ criti-
cism, it was said that the increase was
chiefly due to the buying of pelts early in the
year, which subsequently appreciated in
value. It is doubtful, however, whether any
(Wild Gat continued on page 16.)


FOR
3 MORE
STILL
AND BEST
SOUNDS amazing, eighteen
De Reszke, Army Club, or
“Greys*’ Cigarettes for one
shilling—it IS amazing. Only
Australian manufacture
makes such value possible;
and each is guaranteed iden-
tical in quality to the original
imported brands. Now you
can smoke the best of Cigar-
ettes at a lower price.
Original imported quality Guaranteed by
GODFREY PHILLIPS (AUSTRALIA)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
DE RESZKE
THE GREYS"
j/lrmy Club
Ss
0r SP/W
e
vr
35ft
%
e
Si
4><
<p*
f-fr;
?<2
</-
JJ
%
%
sT
<=63*
i£
<ji
S 3
ri
s:
*
5?
Rg
lok
S
4'
(K
%
*
sN
s'-
O FOR ffl*
\B™V-
TOR MILDER AND BETTER TASTEI


DIFFICULT
DAYS
If you’ve got to sacrifice some-
thing, what’s it to be? Which
cos. are standing up best to the
strain? Which show signs of
being likely to disappear alto-
gether?
We shall not be always like
this. There will be a recovery
some day, and those who get in
at the bottom will make for-
tunes.
It is the “Wild Cat Monthly’s”
job to help you pick them.
FEBRUARY NUMBER NEXT
SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Kassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe not only ensures a pipe line
of the highest efficiency, but definitely reduces cost
to the absolute minimum. Many important instal-
lations have proved this, and experienced engineers
specify this excellent conduit for practically every
liquid-conveying purpose. Investigate the merits o'f
Pioneer Wood Pipe, which is non-corrosive, light,
durable and possesses remarkable strength—compare
its capabilities and the saving it effects. Full par-
ticulars from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane’ Cove’
N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. —Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard o 1 Quality throughout tho Empire,
IV! onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass't Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
1 1 las been sustained; it was
admitted that stocks were hard to sell.
finaicial I 'posftion f- “ * dmb ° Utl ° ok is the
p ro . , 1921. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Owl „ n 1 *? 1 ' ' £60 > 000 £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Orel, capital . . 140,000 114,365 114,365 114,365
Liabilities .. 4,369 4,663 5,180 2,477
Freeholds, etc. .. 24,146 29,771 29,771 29,771
etc ' *• 24,020 25,847 23,474 20,964
brocks .. .. 63;636 57 059 43)450 5 4
n f. tors . '• •• 19.214 19,174 27,894 15,665
Ca.sh, etc. .. 7,338 5,184 519 4,612
-liabilities are small, and are more than
covered by cash, e tc. Which means that, pro-
vided resources are not drained by further
losses, the co. can mark time until better
things come along. Prospects of improve-
ment, however, are nor yet in sight, and
there will very likely need to be an adjust-
ment of capital before the ords. can expect
to ? et “to the picture. Plant, etc., which
rnoii ’ bas keen written down to
-r-, 1 reeholds remain unchanged at
£29, 11 1. Debtors (£15,665) fell away £12,229
timing the term. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£6Sj5<M, including stocks) has
£17,015 over the last nine years.
lhe ords. are backed by net tangibles
with a book value of ss. 10d., and the prefs.
are covered by £1 19s. 9d. on the same basis,
hast sales of the latter were made at 11s.;
tor the ords. sellers were asking 2s. in March
last year.
Broken Hill Power Co.’s Debentures
The Western N. S. Wales Electric Power
v ty., Ltd., in which the North, the South and
Zinc Corp. own all the half-million shares
issued, is on the market with £700,000 of 8
p.c. first mortgage debentures, with a cur-
rency of 15 years. The co. was formed in
August last to establish a central power
station at Broken Hill for the use of the
mines, more particularly those of the three
shareholding cos.
The outlay on the undertaking is expected
to run into £750,000. The three mining
cos. have paid up 4s. a share on their hold-
ings, making £lOO.OOO altogether. In addi-
tion, each of the cos. has temporarily
advanced money to the Power Co. to finance
progress payments on the works. The
object of this debenture issue is to provide
for the repayment of these loans, and to
give the co. a sufficient balance of cash to
see the establishment programme to com-
pletion.
The whole of the debenture issue has been
underwritten free of commission by the
three Broken Hill cos., which between them
are subscribing for £250,000 of the issue,
leaving £450,000 for the public. In order
to compensate for the small margin of
tangible security in the Power Co. itself,
the North, South and Zinc Corp. are jointly
and severally guaranteeing the principal and
interest. At their last respective balance-
days these cos. between them had over
£2,000,000 in surplus liquids, exclusive of
shares in associated cos. Thus, investors
taking up these debentures can see cover
in liquids alone equal to three times their
capital. It looks as safe a mortgage invest-
ment as one is likely to get in these uncer-
tain times.
Tasmanian Shales
“Shale”: In the matter of Tasmanian
shales, far be it that my pessimism should
damp the optimism of Mr. Crozier (B.
14/1/’3l), of Latrobe. But—
(1) My figure of 5 per cent, sulphur in
the crude oil (B. 31/12/’3O) was taken from
a paper prepared by the Tas. Director of
Mines and published June, 1926. The actual
figure was 4.93. Percentages may vary* but
the sulphur content of the Mersey shale, as
well as of the Mersey coal, is very high.
Mr. Crozier may eliminate it, but that costs
money.
(2) My views on the mining difficulties
were arrived at after consultation with a
mine manager who was mining it some years
ago. Mersey shale is unpleasant stuff to
mine; it looks easier than it is.
(3) Wlrat does Mr. Crozier mean by claim-
ing 40 p.c. more efficiency for his petrol?
The thermal value of normal petrol is about
15,500 British Thermal Units per pound.
Does he claim 25,900 for it—far more than
either kerosene or crude oil will yield?
Press reports lately have stated that Mr.
Crozier’s retorts are yielding 30 gallons
crude oil per ton of shale. Crude oil is
worth about 6d. per gallon. Mr. Crozier
deserves credit for his pluck and enterprise,
but it looks like another bonus business, and
even bonus business is somewhat depressed
to-day.
A Bulletin man lately measured up
some Westralian mines. At Kalgoorlie
Great Boulder’s ore reserves show little
depletion over the past four years, though the
average grade may be a bit lower. The
treatment plant is being enlarged- and results
from diamond drilling on the east side of
the property are expected to add substan-
tially to the known ore reserves. Carl Lind-
berg is making a careful scrutiny of the
position of the Lake View group on behalf
of the Consolidated Goldfields, Ltd., of South
Africa, and another big financial corporation,
which has its headquarters in New York.
Much depends on his report. If favorable,
Lake View is certain to get all the backing
it wants; if unfavorable it will have to try
elsewhere. Big ore resexwes have been and
are still being opened up in this property,
mostly as a result of development in the
Golden Horseshoe and Chaffers leases. The
flotation process on the hake View block
continues to satisfy the management, and a
big in costs is tipped when the
enlarged plant is brought into operation.
Boulder Perseverance and Associated show
little change. The former is not short of
what should be payable ore, but is still witli-
cut the wherewithal to instal a new treat-
ment plant. The latter’s future is doubtful,
though hopeful. The property was believed to
be on the brink of the grave when Duncan
McAulay took charge 18 years ago, but it
has produced a great quantity of gold since
then. South Kalgurli seems to have bot-
tomed. With the ore remaining in the
property, plus supplies from the leased
Croesus Proprietary and other outside
sources, the treatment plant might be kept
running and good profits earned. North
Kalgurli has possibilities. Recent develop-
ment has exposed substantial blocks of ore,
and trial crushings have given good returns.
* * * *
At Leonora the Sons of Gwalia is fast
improving. The shoot in the bottom work-
ings is of good length and grade, and in-
creased profits are being earned. The co.’s
share of the premium now amounts to £2200
a month. Should the management secure
a revision of a section of the award, it will
bo able to considerably increase the ore
reserves by opening up ore bodies which
can’t be worked now owing to a slightly
excessive temperature.
* * * * *
Australian and General Asbestos Co.
(W.A.) is starving for capital. A recent
attempt to raise £3O 000 failed, and so did an
issue of 8 per cent, three-year notes. Further
efforts are being made, but the odds are
overwhelmingly against them being suc-
cessful.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. is again busy. This time,
as a result of a report by technologist L.
McKillop, it is sending a director to Sydney
to negotiate for financial backing with a co.
interested in the search for oil, in order to
resume boring after the present wet season.
McKillop reckons that with sufficient casing
the present plant is capable of drilling to a
vertical depth of 4000 ft., and perhaps
5000 ft. with an uncased hole.
* * * *
“Winze”: The Queensland Mines Depart-
ment has issued some information concern-
ing that London-formed co. which is to
diamond-drill an area on the Palmer and
adjacent goldfields (B. 28/l/’3l). A con-
cession of 70,000 acres has been granted,
15,000 on the Palmer and the balance spread
over the Woolgar and Percyville sites on
the Croydon-Etheridge field. The co. has
to spend £lO,OOO a year for the first three
years, and if at the end of five the amount
of £50,000 has been expended in prospecting
and development, the concession will be
further extended. The co. is bound to set
in within nine months from December 30
last. It is sending its own plant from Eng-
land, but has asked the State for the loan
of a couple of drills until the arrival of
its own.
* * * *
A new gold find has been made at Bim-
murra, some 40 miles by road from Mt.
Coolon (Q.), and the lode is reported to
bo at least sft. thick and to carry values
above an ounce. A trial crushing of 50 tons
is on its way to the Empire Mill at Mt.
Coolon. The prospectors’ statement that
it looks to be a better thing than the Mt.
Coolon lode has yet to be checked.
* * * *
The Tasmanian syndicate that purchased
the Briseis tinmines at Derby for £1550 from
the London liquidator got a rare bargain.
The 29 miles of races and pipe lines alone
cost £170,000 to construct, and a good deal
of the machinery escaped damage by the
1929 flood which caused the old company
to go into liquidation. The New Briseis
Tin Mining Co. has now been formed with
a nominal capital of £30,000 and a direc-
torate of leading Launceston men. The new
company does not intend to interfere with
the tributing arrangements —at least, not
until a definite policy for working the mines
is adopted. Tassy shareholders are very
caustic in their remarks regarding the dis-
posal of the property, as they reckon it was
simply given away.
* * * *
Kampar Malaya Tin Dredging, Ltd. (Lon-
don), which paid the late T. H. Martyn’s
Kampar River Co. £86,000 for its property,
suction-cutter plant, etc., has issued its first
report since starting operations with an
American dredge. From 2,121,371 cubic
yards recoveries were 726 tons, averaging
.771 b. per cubic yard, and costs were
3.78 d. Working expenses averaged £2BOO
per month, and mine overhead charges, to-
gether with London office exes., etc., amounted
to £10,686. Profits of £37,932 were dis-
closed subject to English income tax. Capi-
tal of the co. is now £240,000 in 480,000
shares of 10s. each, 80,000 extra shares
which were under option having been sub-
scribed, and the cash used to liquidate lia-
bilities.
* * * *
Some, at least, of the Australian tin-
dredging ventures in Malaya continue to
show a working profit. Seven of the Allu-
vial Tin group came out ahead of expenses
for January; the biggest profit-earner was
Kramat, with £3092, and the smallest Malim
Nawar, with £233. Total surplus over work-
ing costs was £10,731.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Uses of rutile? (2) Market in Aus-
tralia? (3) How is it prepared for market?
(4) Is it found in nature in large quanti-
ties or is it prepared from titanium. —loB7.
(1) Used in the manufacture of non-
poisonous paint in place of white lead, for
making light strong alloys with aluminium,
as a mordant in dyeing and in the manu-
facture- of certain titanium salts which
destroy dyes. (2) Yes, but only for paint
purposes. (3) Sent to the paint manufac-
turers in the crude state, but should con-
tain _ not less than 93 per cent, titanium
dioxide. (4j Occurs in beach sands, in
stanniferous washes, in river sands and
gravels. Often associated with tin in lodes
but rarely in large quantities. Chief source
is river gravels, and in beach sands, as at
Florida (U.S.A.). Never prepared from the
metal titanium.
For an English £ note I can get 245. in
Australia, hut for a sovereign I am quoted
only 20s. at the Commonwealth and another
hank. Why? —l379.
. The export of gold is prohibited; and it
is only when delivered abroad that a
sovereign is worth more than the £ Aus-
tralian. But the gold-producer may get
authority to export, and thus secure the
advantage of the premium.
How does inflation help the pastoralist to
get out of his trouble? If the £ deteriorates
to Is., how will that affect the primary pro-
ducer? —1384.
The primary producer does not get a single
farthing more from the foreign buyer than
he would if there was no inflation. Whether
the £ Australian is worth 20s. or Is. does
not matter two straws to the foreign wool-
user. . that happens is that, if he can get
£l3O in Australia for £lOO of English money,
he can afford to offer £l3O in Australia for
what he knows is worth only £lOO in Lon-
don. But the buyer doesn’t pay a farth-
ing towards the extra £3O. He pays £l3O
instead of £lOO because the £l3O will buy in
Australia only what £lOO ought to buy. And
if it will buy only that much for the wool-
buyer, it will buy only that much for the
woolgrower, also. That, at least, is the
theory of it. Actually at present £lOO in
London is worth £l3O in Australia simply
because many Australians are panic-stricken
and will pay almost anything to get their
money out of the country.
What is the best district in N. S. Wales
for _ an experienced gold fossiclcer to seek a
living? What chance in the Drake and
Upper Clarence River districts? —1474.
There are well over 5000 prospectors out
at present, but a man, if lucky, may win a
little gold on any of the well-known gold-
fields, such as Bingara, Walcha, Nundle,
Mudgee, Sofala. Trunkey, etc. Drake dis-
trict has possibilities; Upper Clarence is not
recommended.
Is a bonus of £1 per ounce of gold provided
for irrespective of exchange? —l263.
The Act provides for the payment of a
bounty of £1 Australian per fine ounce pro-
duced in excess of average gold produced p.a.
during 1928-29-30; bounty payable for 10
years from Jan. 1, 1931.
What is the position of Australian invest-
ors in relation to Victoria Nyanza Sugar,
8.-P. South Seas and Morris Hedstrom?
—1405.
Victoria Nyanza is registered in Mel-
bourne ; the other two in Fiji; £lOO in Fiji
is worth about £l2O in Australia.
(1) Chances of a pair of newchum pros-
pectors picking up a few hundreds on an
Australian goldfield? (2) Most likely dis-
tricts adjacent to Tweed River (N.S.W.)?
(3) Necessary equipment? (4) Suitable
books? (5) A few other likely spots in
N.S.W. ? —1233.
(1) Mining is very speculative, and a man
might be lucky, but the prospects of “picking
up a few hundred” are not encouraging.
(2) After favorable weather conditions, that
is south-east gales, an experienced man might
make small wages on the sea beaches south
from Byron Bay. (3) Prospecting dish and
shovel, and with advantage a miner’s cradle.
(4) N.S.W. Mines Dept, furnishes helpful
free literature of use to prospectors. (5)
Timbarra River, near Drake, or Murrum-
bidgee River, Adaminaby district, offer pos-
sibilities. Write to the Department of
Mines, Sydney, for a mineral map.
Would our silver coinage retain its value
if inflation were carried out largely? —l49o.
Twenty silver shillings would ordinarily
buy no more than a depreciated fl Austra-
lian note —up to a certain point. That point
might be reached when the shilling became
worth about twopence. Silver is now worth
shade under Is. 3d.—say 15s. per lb. troy.
Now 66 shillings are coined out of lib. troy.
The silver in a shilling (at Is. 3d. per ounce)
is thus worth a shade under 3d.; so when
the shilling became worth 2d., it might pay
to export the coins for their silver contents.
The Bulletin says there has been a cer-
tain amount of inflation and the Australian
£1 note is worth under 16s. Yet I find I
cannot purchase more commodities ivith a
sovereign than with a£l note. Why is this?
—1147.
We have for the time abandoned the gold
standard, and no longer pretend to pay a
sovereign for a£l note. Our sovereign
would pay a debt of 20s. in London ; there-
fore as soon as we failed to export enough
commodities to pay our current debts abroad,
there was a rush to change notes into gold
and export them. So the conversion of
paper into gold had to be stopped and the
export of gold prohibited. If you could buy
and export sovereigns you could afford to
pay about 255. each. But because you can’t
export them, they are nominally worth only
the old 20s.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
11.N.8.; It’s a gamble; but that can be
said of nine new ventures out of 10. Almost every-
thing depends on management, which is unproved.
... .A.8.C.: In the order you’ve written them....
E.P.0.: Commercial of Sydney, probably; it has
been handled very shrewdly... .F.W.S.: Put it in
some place where you can get it quickly. Savings
Bank is as good as any. .. .Student: Quite possible
to get exchange with Japan direct; but in the
absence of special arrangements your bank will
deal with foreign countries through London....
E.M.: Yes; but they must be empowered to do it
by their articles. Various pastoral finance cos. have
done such work—which was the beginning of the
Elder and Bagot trustee cos. in S. Aus H.C.8.:
Money is very poor property in a country suffering
from inflation and liable to suffer more P.A.:
All the firms that buy are middlemen; but if you
write Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
you can arrange for him to act for y0u....K.H.:
Send a sample to the Mines Dept., Brisbane....
C.M.L.: Submit samples of the red oxide either to
Mines Dept., Brisbane, which would give advice as
to value and market possibilities; or direct to paint
manufacturers.


\\\\\\UU" uinUinnUnin,n l ' mm ll'l n, lIJJI J l, ,/,,,w//,/ «
\\\\\\\""'
V\WNW
v\\'* X
\\Vfc
by actual
figures
è
m
é
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RURBER CO. LIMITED ALL STATES
Certified data giving details of the above Census may be inspected at any of the Company’s Warehouses
ê


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Lilac Time „
Criterion “On the Spot »
. iate Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
£ OYAL “Sons o’ Guns’’
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser’’
* IVOLI “The Film Girl”
state Movies and Talkies
«.
ALLIED VICTORIES.
POPGUNS IN ACTION
NEW WAR TACTICS
ALL HEAVY ORDNANCE RETIRED.
C From our Special Representative with the Troops
on the Sydney Front.)
George-street, February 3.
It can be semi-officially stated that with
the advent of our new allies, the brave and
gallant Popgun Hussars, all is now riot on
the Sydney front. Troops who had borne
the brunt of attack in the past have been
retired into the quiet surroundings of
Archives for a well-earned rest.
Even in the Playbox sector, where Briga-
dier-General Macdougall had stormed, and
even barnstormed, the bastions—if that is
the right word to describe audiences that
stay away—with the heavy ordnance of
Strindberg and O’Neill, our brave and gal-
lant allies the Popgun Hussars have been
attacking with the comparatively lighter field
pieces nicknamed by these gay-hearted troops
“Saturday’s Children,” a clever example of
wit among the common soldiers, because they
go off on Saturdays, and also on Wednesdays.
Along the Criterion salient, where the
heaviest of artillery had thundered in the
past, Colonel Bradley lately earned his pro-
motion to the Popgun ITussars by the accu-
rate timing—B p.m. nightly, with matinees on
Wednesdays and Saturdays—of salvos from
the dated and featherweight field-piece faceti-
ously called by the troops “Eliza Comes to
Stay,” another example of spontaneous wit,
because the weapon, one of the oldest Pop-
gun Hussar pieces extant, was taken out of
the line at the week-end and scrapped. This
is to be deplored, because the piece is in-
geniously composed of wheels within wheels,
all of which could be seen going round as
the thing worked.
However, Colonel Frank Harvey, brought
to the Sydney front regardless of expense,
or _ anything else, at once took over this
salient, with a new make of pip-squeak,
invented, designed and completed, whilst
Wing-Commander Hugh D. Mclntosh put
to flight by General De Presh.
shaving and cutting his finger-nails on his
way to his factory in a cab, by Signor Edgar
Wallace, regarded by our brave and gallant
allies the Popgun Hussars as their greatest
genius of all time. Synchronising with this
offensive, Field-Marshal the late J. C. Wil-
liamson, surnamed the Firm, instructed his
council of trusted mediums to move into the
Majesty’s sector the three-quarter-ounce field-
piece called “Lilac Time,” an affectionate pet-
name, the meaning of which is a trifle
obscure, but which is said to date from the Con-
quest of Wales, when the Popgun Hussars
armed themselves with bunches of lilac and
even then succumbed to the .smell of leeks.
It is semi-officially rumored that the late
J. C. Williamson, surnamed the Firm, has
now applied to Mr. Boucicault for leave of
absence from Heaven, and will spend the
next few years excavating in Ur of the
Chaldees for something less blatantly modern
than this field-piece, “The Belle of New
York,” “The Country Girl” and the sundry
other bits of brand-new ordnance that have
lately filled the Majesty’s salient with the
odious aroma of factory varnish.
Our brave and gallant allies the Popgun
Hussars have also again assumed control in
the sacred St. James sector, scene of seme
of the saddest and most disgraceful events
in an otherwise exalted and indeed honor-
able conflict. From this sector, it will be
recalled, the ever-to-be-reviled Field-Marshal
Sir Benjamin Fuller, after a life-time of
unswerving service at the head of the Popgun
Hussars—indeed it may be semi-officially
stated that the Popgun Hussars were almost
invented by him —ratted to the side of
Generalissimo Stuart Doyle and filled the
entire sector with the vile and deadly tear-
gas contemptuously referred to as A 1
Jolson. It may also be remembered that
it was from this sector that Wing-
Commander Hugh D. Mclntosh was put
to flight by a particularly heavy bar-
rage personally directed by General de
Presh. It is to the credit of our brave and
gallant allies the Popgun Hussars that in
spite of such reverses they again moved into
the line on this treacherous front.
They moved in under the personal com-
mand of Double-Brigadier-General Ernest
C. Rolls, whose name appears not less than
five times on a page of his Army Orders,
whose photo appears not less than twice
therein, who is the proud possessor of two
cable addresses in Sydney alone, and who,
it can be semi-officially stated, once walked
out of one of his billiard-rooms, and, observ-
ing a fire on the flagship of his fleet of
yachts, called up eight of his head gardeners
and peremptorily ordered them to instruct
seven of his fire brigades to get on the job
at once and report to him afterwards in his
third library. It is, of course, unnecessary
to state that his “Topsy Turvy” brigade
contains some, of the best Popgun Hussars
ever seen stripped for action. The word
“stripped” is not used with any flippant
intent. This brigade of'Popgun Hussars in-
cludes. as in fact does every brigade of this
ancient force, a fine battalion of Amazons
Effect of an Amazon attack upon the
baldheads in the stalls.
whose dress in the closing stages of the
initial hopover was carefully estimated to
weigh about one-eighth of an ounce to the
square inch, or, say, two-sixteenths of an
ounce to each Amazon. These may be de-
scribed as the shock troops, and certainly
their effect on the baldheads who sat and
watched them charge, with their beautiful
waists and legs and shoulders and arms and
necks and whatnot bare as the inspiration
of Mr. Norman Lindsay, was at once instan-
taneous and Voronofic. Just how effective is
this branch of the Popgun Hussars may be
gathered from enemy newspapers picked up
by their gallant commander in some captured
trenches. These hint a wavering on the part
of even General de Presh himself, who was
present in person at the attack, and who
afterwards waited upon Dr. Hughes and
17 other specialists in Macquarie-street to
sec if he couldn’t have his eyesight at least
trebled.
It can also be semi-officially stated that
Lieutenant Stan Foley, a mere boy, will be
strongly recommended for whatever decora-
tions are left after the Amazon battalion
gets its issue. He is always in the thick
of the fray throughout, using his own
private supply of laughing-gas to drive
General de Presh still further into the back
seats. Young Lieutenant Foley is a graduate
of the University of West Queensland, and
may be said to have automatically enlisted
in the Popgun Hussars before he was born.
It can be semi-officially stated of him that
he could make a prohibitionist laugh, and it
is also in his favor that a prohibitionist
would probably make him laugh. It need
not be overlooked, however, that he has an
able batman in Lance-private Leonard
Stephens, who, disguised as a commercial
traveller, attacked a redoubt wherein a coun-
try storekeeper was stro|ngly entrenched,
and, after pleading vainly to be allowed to
show him a fine line of sardines, completely
routed the enemy into the ensuing blackout
by plaintively asking, “Well, do you mind if
I have a look at them myself? I haven’t
seen them for such a long time.” The
same brigade owns to two of the very latest
recruits to the Popgun Hussars, Lieuts.
John Priora and May Craven, who served in
the Foreign Legion of Operatic Singers and
still bear some of the marks of that service,
though they are assiduously endeavoring to
obliterate the taint by singing “Rigoletto” in
ragtime. Of them it can be safely said that
they can fire a barrage of more mellifluous
tone than any other single or combined
battery at present in action on the whole
of the Sydney front.
Yet another brigade of the Popgun Hus-
sars attacked on yet another part of the
line on Saturday, when Brigadier-General
Nat Phillips led his “Ace High” Battalions
into action in the Opera House salient, and
easily held General de Presh at bay despite
such counter-attractions as the aroma of
chop suey and grilled birds’ nests issuing
from the adjoining Campbell-street dugouts.
Otherwise all is quiet on the Sydney Front
except in the Palace salient, where a strong
troop of Dismounted Postilions are en-
trenched among hollow logs, sawn-off motor
tyres, mountainous ravines and the like,
solemnly bombing the enemy with immature
golf balls.
¥ * *
At least this much can be said for the
Popgun Hussars, that a skirmish of theirs
can make good entertainment at times. An
example is “On the Spot,” at the Cri. It
returns Frank Harvey to the Australian
boards, and just now his virility is wel-
come. Judged on this offering only, he is
a cross between Leon Gordon and Leo
“He could make a Prohibitionist laugh.”
Carrillo, but a more versatile actor than
Leon and a more vigorous one than Leo.
The play is one that a wrong sort of acting
could easily ruin. Gordon would have ruined
it by lingering on its sex notes and over-
emphasising the importance of the houses of
ill-fame, out of which the leading figure,
Tony Perelli, Chicago racketeer and gun-
man, draws some of his income, and to which
he sends all but one of his mistresses when
he’s done with them. Harvey has these
things as Wallace probably wanted them.
Whatever other qualities he may not have
as a playwright, Edgar Wallace can at least
handle sex without being pawky, maudlin
or suggestive. His weakness artistically—
that lie doesn’t suggest —here becomes a
kind of strength; and Harvey helps him to
hold it.
The play, despite its probably being very
little false to its life, is plain melodrama. A
Moscovitch would have considered it just
the vehicle for his talent. H'e wouldn’t have
Gordonised the fragments of sex any more
than Harvey does, but he certainly would
have Moscovitched the melodramatic side.
Harvey manages a balance between, and
yet gives about enough of both, with a little
of his own brand of over-acting, to pretty
well ensure the play being a box-office suc-
cess. He has the additional virtue, from the
box-office point of view, of being a type of
man that women apparently get some kick
out of watching. He has a payable cock-
tail effect upon the girls of the gods and
the wearers of synthetic tiaras in the stalls.
There is fairly good support from the other
males. Tal Ordell has a shop as Tony
Perelli’s opposition, Mike Feeney, and though
he makes few appearances he manages to
suggest that Feeney could be a possible oppo-
sition to such a tough nut as Tony. (Campbell
Copelin, who has improved out of recogni-
tion since present writer first saw him
stumbling about in a dull Nellie Bramley
show, does thoroughly good work as the
detective, whose irregular but frequent visits
to the garishly ostentatious flat of Tony
Perelli form the staple of the play. There
is little else to the piece. It is a study of
Tony, who as Kelly (Copelin) knows is
behind a number of shootings and guilty of a
few on his own account. Eventually woman
cuts short Tony’s illustrious career. Having
tired of his Chinese woman, Minn Lee, he ■
proposes sending her to take charge of one
of his ill-famous houses. Minn Lee lies on
a sofa and quietly runs a knife into her
heart; ,and Kelly, investigating the gang
shootings that have been going on, happens
in, handcuffs Tony and burns the confession
the girl had written, salving his conscience
with the reflection that Tony had killed so
many that it is only fair that he should
swing for the one he hadn’t killed. Neither
of the ladies—Tischa Guille, as Minn Lee,
and Rowena Ronald, as Con. O’Hara’s
woman—is satisfactory; the first is too stiff
(though perhaps acting under misguided
orders), and the other sometimes poses and
forgets about acting. Tischa Guille, recently
an amateur, has a striking appearance. She
will possibly do better. A young fellow
Double-Brigadier- General
Rolls discovers the flagship
of his fleet of yachts on fire.
named E.
Pirie Bush is
in the Harvey-
Copelin class
as Tony’s sec-
retary, and
John Fernside
brings a bull
nec/i and other
such notable
talents to the
Part of a
hired gunman.
The whole
piece may
seem utterly
incredible, but
anyone who
feels tempted
to swear that
it is might
pause long
enough to ask
himself what
he knows
about it, any-
how. Present
writer lately
read an appa-
rently authen-
tic autobiography of a U.S.A. gunman. It
seemed to suggest that Edgar Wallace has
here let the breed down light.
A couple of things struck this observer
about the show. One was the number of
recognisable persons, from politicians up
to woolbuyers, whom he had never seen at
a first night before. Another was the ex-
pectancy of the audience before curtains.
The crowd gassed and chipped and tittered in
its old grand manner; and for some time
now it has tended to sit waiting glum and
bored, like a man who is about to take
something for better or for worse and has
some doubts about the better.
* # #
If there happens to be a novelist about
in search of a really sweet and charming
heroine for his forthcoming masterpiece he
could do worse than put himself into hard
training at minnie golf, go to the ex-Palace
Theatre, hand in the best card for the day,
collect the free seat attaching to that accom-
plishment, proceed thence to Her Majesty’s
and carefully inspect Marie Bremner. She
is the leading lady of the just-revived “Lilac
Time,” and she is an altogether dainty little
lady.
For the rest, “Lilac Time” is presented,
produced and performed at least well enough
to pardon the revival. It has music in it,
and though the job it makes of Franz Schu-
bert himself is probably an inexcusable
crime, there is considerably more inevitable-
ness, reality, about it than one notices in
most charges of the Popgun Hussars. John
Ralston does the first couple of acts with
a lamentable sob in his voice. Let a
Schubert be shy by all means, but why
in Heaven’s name have a full-grown
man with all these silly quavers in his
voice? In normal life a man might have
quite a decent blubber after an overdose of
nervous strain or gin, but it doesn’t come
over the footlights successfully. It is one
of the blots of “On the Spot” that a young
chap should flop on to his knees and shed
two or three gills into a girl’s lap just be-
cause he merely killed a cove the night
before. In fact, it’s when he himself is
potted off soon after that you first begin
to feel a glow of admiration for Chicago’s
gunmen. Nobody shoots John Ralston,
which is fortunate, because he makes amends
in the last act, and, barring the sobstuff, his
characterisation throughout is good. Arthur
Stigant, Sidney Burchall and Romola Hansen
are the other brighter lights of a nice per-
formance.
* * *
The aspersion that Australians are indif-
ferent to music was refuted in a dramatic
fashion at the close of the band contests at
Sydney Sports Ground. Six A-grade bands
had done their darnedest in an “own choice”
selection, and Cyril Jenkins, Mus. Doc., im-
ported from England to referee the tourney,
awarded the prize to a band that played a
composition of his own, “Life Divine.” The
Study of Edgar Wallace renting the play
“On the Spot.”
audience, however, preferred the music of
Franz Liszt, as rendered by another band,
but, guarded by six policemen, Dr. Jenkins
escaped intact. Townsville Railway had, the
adjudicator declared, played his great work
better than he had ever heard it played be-
fore. He gave it 188 points, 200 being the
maximum. Hamilton (the band that played
Liszt Rhapsodies) got 187 points. Dr. Jen-
kins says that in future he will only judge set
“test piece” competitions. That seems to be
a wise decision.
* * H-
“Sons o’ Guns,” magnificently dressed and
well staged, had a first airing in Melbourne
at the Royal on Saturday night. Gus
Bluett, Leo Franklyn and (Cecil Kellaway
in their own brands of burlesque, Bertha
Riecardo in the hysterical-pathetic role of
the French girl Yvonne, and Elsie Prince as
a bright modern maid do the chief work in
helping the breezy entertainment along. It
is a very good show of the spectacular kind.
* * *
Adelaide Royal is reopening, after a long
sleep, with a Williamsonian “House that
Jack Built” pantomime. At West’s Gladys
Moncrieff in person appears before the screen
twice daily.
* * *
This year’s Archibald prize competition
shows a lamentable falling-off of entrants for
the comic section. One chap has painted
himself with the mumps, and there is a
really amazing girl standing in a garden
wanting nothing but a bee to sting her into
animation; but most of the artists show a
callous indifference to w T hat the ribald public
wants. The winner, a Scots drum-major, by
Mclnnes, is an effective piece of work, and
Longstaff’s self-portrait is excellent. Norman
Carter has set the design for the next genera-
tion’s chocolate-boxes with his portrait of
Nancy Hazleton, an uncommonly good-look-
ing young lady. It seems to be a surface
job, without the careful characterisation of
the Mclnnes and the Longstaff. Most of
the entrants have apparently woken up to
the fact that the prize goes to a big picture.
One who hasn’t is Percy Leason. Why, his
head isn’t as big as the drum-major’s gloved
fist! That’s no way to go about winning an
Archibald prize.
“Hops and Scotch”: Pavlova had a gem
of a business manager in her husband M.
Dandre, who not only shouldered financial
responsibilities but steered her clear of
social traps. Naturally every day in Aus-
tralia brought its crop of invitations to the
star. Dandre, in consultation with the pub-
licity manager, carefully considered them
all. One arrived from a ladies’ club,
which stated that it had entertained Galli-
Curci during her visit. A programme was
enclosed. Dandre pointed to it. “I notice,
Monsieur,” he said, “that at this after-
noon tea someone sang to Galli-Curci. My
God! Surely Pavlova will not have to
watch anyone dance!”
# # *
“Ike Pagliacci”: The characteristic I
admired most in the Pavlova I knew was
sincerity. She never pretended to like or
"Routed the enemy into the ensuing
blackout.”
dislike. I do not remember her writing any-
thing on a photo, other than “To So and So,”
and her signature, “Anna Pavlova.” She
did not greet suggestions with false enthu-
siasm and then forget them. When artist
D. H. Souter suggested an alteration in the
dress for her Californian Poppy dance she
did not comment; but a week later Souter
received a charming personal letter of
thanks stating that she had experimented
with his suggestion, found it admirable, and
had adopted the idea.


THANK GOD FOR THE HERRING!
“The Lang Government, being hard pressed by the unemployed for failing to keep its election promises, has begun a vigorous attack upon the banks....
Mr. Lang yesterday denounced the gold standard Mr. Lang yesterday made a bitter attack on country storekeepers Mr. Lang yesterday
ATTORNEY-GENERAL LYSAGHT: “Phew, this hunt is getting too hot, Jack.”
THE PREMIER: “Thank God for the herring, Andy!”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Banks and Their Customers
' Dear Bulletin, —May a grazier’s wife
groan a bit, too, in your columns?
We have been keeping hard at it for years
now. With so many droughts and the de-
pression, we have slipped back, I know, but
we still keep pegging on, hoping things will
change. Both my man and myself work hard
day after day from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. We
never have a holiday, never spend a penny
on pictures or talkies (which we have
never even seen), or on any entertainment of
any kind. Sometimes it is necessary to go
into town on business —about once a month
—but it takes us both a week to recover
afterwards from the depressing effect a visit
to the bank manager has on my husband, and
this, of course, reacts on me. We are cer-
tainly down now, but can we do more than
our utmost —nobody could work harder or
live more economically than we do? Surely
it is not necessary to make sensitive folk
feel they had better commit suicide and be
done with it!
After all, the banks are getting their
interest —and a high one—so why give us
hell like this? —Yours, Grazier’s Wife.
Should the Lender Lose, too?
The other day I had to pay my usual
after-harvest visit to the sweat pen. After
the usual business the manager proceeded to
sum up my assets. He began by writing
down the value of my stock, plant and land
37 per cent, on last year’s valuation, and
finished up by asking me for further security,
which I didn’t have. He called the process
“deflation,” yet any suggestion to write off
any of the bank’s share in it is “repudiation.”
Why? I am perfectly well aware that land
values, as a result of the 50 to 60 per cent,
drop in values of our staple products, have
fallen. But tvhy should the bank maintain
that its depositors’ money is any better than
mine? Why should they draw an unreduced
income at my expense? —A Farm Corres-
pondent.
The question is in part discussed on Page
8 this week, and the opinion expressed that,
because the farmer must be kept on the land,
his interest-burden must be reduced. But
that does not answer the question; “Why
should the bank depositor not suffer along
with me?” And there is an answer.
Investments are of very many grades.
Some people want as near absolute safety
of principal as they can get: old people, for
instance, who cannot make any loss good.
In return for that .safety they take a low
rate of interest and renounce all rights to
share in the profits no matter how much
their money may earn for the user. From
that the investment changes gradually, each
grade accepting a shade more risk in return
for a shade more interest, until at the other
end 50 per cent. p.a. may be demanded for a
very hazardous risk. The bank deposit is one
of the low grades; its owner accepts 3 or 4
per cent., and expects no more, though the
money may earn 25 per cent, for the bor-
rower. One N.S.W. farmer in a recent year
showed a 60 per cent, return on his borrow-
ings.
It is of tremendous importance to industry
that there should be a supply of cheap money.
Therefore it is of great importance that its
security should not be attacked. Once it
is understood that the lender is expected to
share the borrower’s losses, inevitably the
rate of interest will go up.
Price of Agricultural Implements
In the House of Reps, lately Dr. Earle
Page quoted from the statement of “an
experienced farmer in the Riverina district”
who said, “compared with 16 to 20 years
ag0.... all farm implements and machinery
have gone up fully 100 per cent., even allow-
ing for the extra width they may cover.”
Now, in view of the fall in the price of wheat,
that would be very serious if it were true.
But, happily, inquiry shows that it is not
true. Farm implements were not selling 16
to 20 years ago at half the price they now
fetch. Certainly they were cheaper than
they are to-day, but only about 20 per cent,
cheaper; and in this respect they compare
most favorably with almost all other manu-
factured goods on the market.
The principal Australian manufacturers
of farm implements print a price-list annu-
ally, issuing it usually in January of each
year. A copy of this list goes to hundreds
of agents throughout Australia, and many
have copies dating back 25 years. The
farm-implement trade specialises in the “fac-
tory-to-farm” idea, and any farmer can obtain
a printed price-list on application. One of
these printed lists is dated 1913 —17 years
ago: this tallies nicely with the period Dr.
Earle Page mentions. The same manufac-
turer’s price book for 1929 is still current.
From these two the net cash prices of 11
items have been taken. These items carry
the same names and descriptions at the two
periods: the only difference in them appears
to be in the weights. In almost every case
they are heavier in 1929 than they were
in 1913, and presumably they are stronger
and more durable on that account. Here
are the figures :
Prices of Australian Farm Implements in 1913 and 1930.
Net Weight Net Weight
Cash Price in 1913, Cash Price in 1930, Advance
Implement. in 1913. Cwt. Qr. Lb. in 1930. Cwt. Qr. Lb. Per Cent.
Sft. Steel Frame Harvester £llO 0 0 38 0 0 £l5O 19 7 45 0 21 37
Grain and Fertiliser Hoe Drill, 16 x 7 .. 39 8 6 15 0 0 55 1 1 16 3 0 39
Grain and Fertiliser Disc Drill, 16 x 7 . . 41 6 6 15 3 0 60 18 5 17 '2 0 47£
Chaffcutter, No. 2, 9jin. mouth, with F. & L.
pulleys and belt shifter .. .. ■ • 19 0 0 5 2 0 24 14 0 6 0 0 30
Adjustable Mouldboard Plough, 4-furrow,
swivel wheel 29 9 0 9 3 14 41 6 6 11 2 21 40
Stump Jump Mouldboard Plough, 5-furrow,
short boards . . . . 37 9 6 15 2 0 54 3 0 15 3 14 44 J
Light Set Disc Plough, 2-furrow .. .. 18 1 0 7 2 0 20 8 6 8 2 14 13
Stump Jump Disc Plough, 5-furrow .. .. 38 19 0 19 0 0 46 9 7 20 2 14 19
Stump Jump Harrows, 5 sections, 100 teeth,
with bar and two wheels, 20in. .. .. 9 10 0 520 12 60 537 29J
Field Roller, Bft 12 16 6 9 2 0 16 12 6 8 3 7 29i
Chain and Pulley Yokes with Swingletrees,
8-horse set 9 10 2 2 3 14 9 14 6 2 3 14 2i
Average
Total £365 10 2 16,1281 b. £492 13 8 17,8921 b. 34.79
Thus it is seen that a range of implements
which in 1913 cost £365 have advanced to
£492 in 1930, being an increase of under 35
per cent. If, however, the comparative
weights of the implements (16,1281 b. in 1913
and 17,8921 b. in 1930) are considered, it
is found that the selling price in 1913 worked
out at 5.43 d. per pound, while in 1930 it
was 6.61 d. per pound. The increase is thus
under 22 per cent, when the figures are
analysed.
No doubt the leader of the Country party
can be relied upon to correct the mis-state-
ment of his Riverina friend at an early
opportunity. The assertion that implement
prices had advanced by over 100 per cent,
in 17 years is so preposterous in the light
of the exact figures quoted that even the
most hardened Freetrader should hasten to
withdraw it.
The Backing for a Loan
“Chartered Accountant” : My suggestion is
that real estate ( i.e ., houses, land and build-
ings), except land actually cultivated, should
carry a prior mortgage to the Commonwealth
Government of 5 per cent, of the capital
value as assessed. These mortgages, to be
paid in prompt cash or discharged any time
within 10 years, to bear interest, and to be
used as the backing for an overseas loan to
pay off existing London debt and local defi-
cits, the surplus to be used in reduction of
the national debt.
In return I suggest that every property-
owner have additional voting power at elec-
tions.
The above plan would, I claim, forestall
any further trend to inflation, would stabilise
everything, and, in effect, would be only put-
ting into practice before it is too late some
of the very methods by which Germany sub-
sequently found the security for her credits
after her experience of inflation.
This method should also suit the section
who are demanding “release of credits,” as
that is what it is, but with conditions
attached.
Inflation and the Trader
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I trade as a general merchant, and want
investment for capital recently realised and
not required in the business. You are ashed
for advice and comment on the following,
assuming that the Commonwealth will defi-
nitely follow, sooner or later, a policy of
inflation: (a) Commonwealth bonds, 1939 or
1940. (b) Stocks of industrial cos. with
strong reserves. (c) House properties of
the class suited to the wage-earner. (d)
Non-depreciating goods at present unaffected
by exchange rate which could be held two
or three years, and such as are handled in
the business. How would inflation affect
the business as far as ready money is con-
cerned? —1439.
(a) Whatever form inflation might take
it is difficult to see how the Government
stockholder could escape heavy loss. His
interest is fixed: he will get his 5 or 6 per
cent, whether £5 will buy a field of turnips
or only a single turnip. And he can be paid
off in £’s Australian no matter though the
£ Australian will buy only one-tenth of
what it would when the money was lent.
(b) Reserves matter less than how they
are invested. If they and the capital are
in stock, plant or premises used in the busi-
ness, they may not be seriously affected. If,
however, the funds of the co. are in loans at
interest, in fixed deposits, in investments at
a fixed rate of interest, or in book debts,
losses are liable to be great. Cos. in debt,
on the other hand, are likely to benefit if
they can keep their creditors from foreclos-
ing in some way. This may be difficult.
(c) House and land property, unless let
on long lease, may be unaffected directly. In
the event of rapid inflation, the tenant will of
course benefit at. the expense of the landlord.
But the landlord will benefit at the expense
of the rating authorities. There is the pos-
sibility of a Government mortgage at the
end of the orgy, as in Germany.
(d) Non-depreciating stock should he
good property. The trader’s constant fear
in Germany was that he would “sell him-
self poor”—that is, sell to-day for less than
it would cost him to restock to-morrow.
Which means that ready money is just about
the worst thing you can have during or just
before inflation.
Maoriland banking figures for the last
quarter of 1930 show that the Dominion
is feeling the strain of greatly reduced prices
for primary products. Compared with the
December quarter of 1929 deposits decreased
by £1,782,300 and advances have increased
by £602,000. Advances exceeded deposits by
£3,000,000, but that is not exceptional for the
December quarter, when both farmers and
importers lean heavily on the banks. Notes
on issue decreased by £400,000 compared
with the last quarter in 1929, and coin and
bullion reserves declined to the extent of
£262,400. They still exceeded the note issue
by a substantial margin.
* * * *
“Philm”: There is one market barometer,
very seldom wrong, and that is the silk
trade. Silk piece-goods are the most sensi-
tive line on the market, and price fluctua-
tions which have heralded troublous periods
and returns to normal have occurred too
frequently to be purely coincidental. The
bottom fell out of the market just before
the gloom settled in earnest over Australia,
and a few months ago a good heavyweight
kobe silk could be purchased as cheaply as
a decent artificial silk fabric. During the
last month the price has been firming
steadily, and the latest quotation represents
a 75 per cent, increase on last November's
price.
L sje * * *
Donald Gunn, a Queensland farmer-
grazier of long experience, has delivered him-
self on South African wool-growing, follow-
ing on his return from a tour of the Union.
He was not greatly impressed with the pre-
sentation and marketing of the clips, there
being only one centre, Durban, where wool
was regularly sold by auction as in Aus-
tralia. Bales were badly packed and press-
ing methods were primitive. But he did not
account for the awkward fact that, in spite
of all these difficulties, South African super-
merinos have been bringing better prices
from the French buyers, who specialise in
these types, than the Australian clips, which
once dominated the world’s fine wool market.
* * * *
Innisfail, where the much-discussed Italian
caneworker has dug in, is gradually becoming
the sugar metropolis of Australia. The four
big mills in the area, the greatest sugar-
producing units in Australia, put up record
crushings for 1930, the value of the tonnage
handled, £2,000,000, being also a record. This
is the outcome of the steady shifting of the
industry from the southern and central north-
ern districts to the far north of Queens-
land. Low sugar prices on the world’s mar-
kets will bring the average price below that
obtaining in 1929; but the prevailing
exchange rates will help where overseas ship-
ments are concerned.
* * * *
“Nitric”: The smallest monoplane built in
Australia was designed by G. N. Wikner, of
Brisbane, and a recent test flight by K.
Foxcroft-Jones was entirely successful. The
new machine, manufactured by Aircrafts of
Australia, is a cabin sports monoplane of
smart appearance with an 80-li.p. six-cylinder
Anzani radial engine. The machine lias a
span of 28 feet, and is capable of well over
60 miles per hour. Wikner is a young aero-
nautical and electrical engineer. The
“Wicko” will be marketed at £550.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
mil
m
ft
!•? till !*»»
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
w
PL
S'"
THEMt^
s S 3
centre
Two Exclusive Features.
First: the perfect site, the convenience of which
contributes so much to the comfort of our
guests. Second:
Reduced Tariff —"Room Only” Rates.
Single Room .. .. from 12/ per day
Double Room .. from 22/6 per day
Breakfast,
21- and 3/6; and o la carte.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
The
t
usm
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
' Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney. .
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
Frigid”: A - seedy-looking individual
bailed me up with a novel tale. “Once,” he
said, “I was a doctor with a large practice,
but owing to the merest slip my patients
left me.” “IIow was that?” I inquired.
“Well,” replied the one-time doctor, “while
filling in a death certificate I absent-mindedly
signed my name in the space headed ‘cause
of death.’ ”
* * * *
"Herbert Dawson”: Some of your Abo.
writers scare me. “J.T.’s” par. (B.
31/12/’30) took my mind back some 20-
odd years to a nigger-black night im Queens-
land in heavy forest country, all mucked up
with logs, broken gullies and “melon holes” ;
a mob of rushing bullocks travelling a shade
slower than radio, and my undistinguished
self in front of them on a fast stock horse
that I imagined could see in the dark. Any-
how lie wasn’t “picking liis way carefully
with his sensitive nose to the ground.” If
I had thought he was just feeling his way
with his whiskers I would have fallen off
dead with fright. All the same he must have
been something, because he got away from
those . bullocks.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Many men have perished of
thirst in the bush within a short distance
of water, and one - more tragedy was very
nearly added to the • list on the Wilson
River, generally a well-watered part, in the
most remarkable case, I have, known. A
horse-trainer and -breaker, who was return-
ing from Birdsville ' (Q.) to Tibooburra
(N.S.W.), struck a dry stretch on a very
hot day. He rode to the bank of a deep
hole, having then only a few yards to walk.
He must have left his horses where he dis-
mounted, or fell off, but they helped them-
selves, and were shortly afterwards picked
up on the track, making for home. That
led to a search for the owner, who was found
on the brink of the pool, face downwards
and clawing Jielplessly with his hands. Had
assistance been delayed another half-hour he
must have perished with his fingers almost
touching the water.
* * * *
“Viau”: The New Guinea planter cannot
always submit breaches of the law for official
action. Tomel came to tlie verandah rail, and
“Me like court long Bato,” lie said. It appeared
that he was peaceably in bed with his wife;
when he woke during the small hours, some-
thing moved hurriedly out of the hut. “Me
savvy he no dog,” he said as explanation of
his rush to the door; and there he had seen
Bato hurrying homeward. He demanded ven-
geance and something had to be done. Court
“IT’S TOO NICE A DAY TO WASTE, ’ERB—I’M GOIN’ TER SLEEP.”
WILLING TO BE ADVISED.
BLOKE WITH THE BEER: “Feelin’ crook, are you? . When I gets like that I goes ’ome
to me wife an' she kisses me an’ smoodges to me till I forget all erbout it.
You do that, Bill.”
THE SICK MAN: “All right, I’ll give it a fly, Peter. Is yer wife ’ome now?”
—most unofficial —was opened. Several
cobbers swore that Bato had stayed home
all night, while Tomel and his wife were
emphatic that Bato had been the trespasser.
Bato provided a solution. Obviously, he said,
this wife of Tomel’s was a hussy, inviting
boy friends to call, and naming anybody at
all when caught. He advised Tomel to watch
her. Why, she might invite me—the master
—to drop in; could Tomel blame me if I
fell for the siren? Certainly she only was
blaniable. Ten minutes later I heard her
weeping down on the beach, and that night
she was sent home to her village to be
guarded by watchful relatives. But the D.O.
dealt with Bato. He got six months when
caught inside the house of the' boss-boy
three nights later.
* * * *
“L.J.F.”: In “The Bush Rain” (B.
T/l/’81).. E. J. Brady uses the phrase
“thrqugh dark she-oaks gliding.” Botanicaliy
that is a bit out of date. “Sheoke” and
“buloke” are the names that have been
adopted for two kinds of casuarinas. It was
considered that “she,-oak” and “bull-oak,” the
previous names/would suggest a relationship
with the oak of Europe which the casuarinas
cannot claim.
*.* * ♦
“Elderly Infant” : Not to be compared, of
course, to the Solent or the Levant as a cruis-
ing ground, I’ll yet back the estuary at
Sumner (M.L.) as one of the most interest-
ing spots of water anyone could navigate.
Here two small streams, the Avon and thg
Heathcote, emerge in grandeur as they enter
the sea. But there isn’t much water in
either of them,- and though the estuary covers
a big expanse it flows over a bed of ancient,
fine and continually shifting sand. Whether
you are sailing an 18ft. cutter or plugging
along with a 2-h.p. launch you’re almost dead
sure to run into an uncharted shoal. My
partner in both branches of sea-travel used
to insist on such occasions that I should get
out and push while he did the navigating.
He was a large, coarse brute, and because
of him many crabs ate portions of my toes.
But I got my own back one day when the
pipe that led petrol to the engine of our
launch broke and we drifted over the bar to
the open sea. I knew, but he didn’t, that
the current (if we got through the breakers)
would cast us up on New Brighton beach,
just around the headland. We got our little
half-decked boat through the surf all right,
and then I sat hack and smoked my pipe,
gloating over the spectacle of a fellow-being
in stark fear of death. We grounded on the
beach ten minutes later, and when I said
“Hop out and help me push her up,” he
obeyed like a lamb. Such memories are
sweet.
* * *
“Mulyan” : Kenny was an old bush war-
rior, and one evening, when want of water
kept us feeling our way along after dark
in strange, hilly country, he wanted to find
a house. There were selectors’ places about,
but all away back from the track. Dropping
his. swag at a gully, being uncertain which
way to follow it, he uttered a dismal howl
that' was intended to be imitative of a dingo.
A-, bird, startled by the awful noise, darted
out of a near tree, after which a temporary
intense silence followed. “No dogs about,”
he commented. Then, after a pause, he
assailed the welkin with a loud “Cock-a-
-doodle-doo!” In a little while there came
faintly across the hill the answering crow
of a rooster. “Ah,” he said, moving off in
the direction of the sound, “there’s a house
over here.”
* * * *
“Hairpin”: Let “Pick” (B. 24/12/’3O),
likewise “Tiewire” (B. 22/10/’3O), please
pronounce the following duplicated place-
names as Binghi does, and see how they sound :
Mogil Mo-gil, Goonoo Goo-noo, Mitta Mit-ta,
Wagga Wag-ga, Jellat Jell-at, Tilba Til-ba,
Weeta Wee-ta, etc., always sounding the last
“a” as “ah.” “Pick” will admit, I am sure,
that this pronunciation has a still better trip
off the tongue than his version. Gutturally
pronounced, Wagga Wag-ga is the exact cry
of the crow.
* * t- *
“Mac Ropus”: Fern ticks are not the only
bush parasites that batten on the kan-
garoo. The button-grass plains of the sou’-
west Speck carry a fairly large ’roo popula-
tion and myriads of leeches, and to the leech
all blood is beer. For some reason or other the
blood-sucking wrigglers lie very low in hot
weather, waking into full activity only after
a shower. Sudden wet weather stimulates
great liveliness in ’roo land. Every ’roo
deserts his hills and gullies and comes down
to the seashore. No leech can live in sand.
BACK TO JUGIONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I m weary of the shepherding in silent open
spaces,
So I’m loading up my packhorse and am
going down below.
I’ve a craving for the mountains and the
cosy farming places,
Those little farming places by the moun-
tains capped with snow.
My heart’s been aching lately with a home-
sick kind of yearning,
And the urge, to see the old folks has been
pulling hard and strong.
The bush has been my schoolhouse, and tough
lessons I’ve been learning
Since I left the little farmhouse in the
hills by Jugiong.
I’ve tried my hand at . everything, from
station-hand to miner.
Was more than ten years fossicking with-
out a lucky find ;
Struck showings here and colors there —no
dust was ever finer—
But ’twas others got the profit from the
stuff we left behind.'
Now I hope to greet the 1 old folk when a
bright spring day is breaking,
When the farmyard cocks are crowing and
the magpies sing tljeir song,
When the air’s a-blend with odors of new
hay that’s .in the making,
And the dairy cows are lowing on the hills
of Jugiong.
There is one who has remembered since we
parted at the river,
When I rode away and left her nearly
fifteen years ago.
Aye, my heart was sore and heavy as I saw
her red lips quiver,
And I left the words unspoken that I
guessed she well might know.
As she waved a farewell, smiling, I was
tempted sore to dally—
How could I have known the separation
would be half as long?
And I saw her head was bowing as the track
dipped to the valley
That is sleeping in the shadows of the
hills of Jugiong.
The bush is kind and friendly, but it’s lost
its old romances,
Yet I love its lazy rivers with old gums
on either hand;
And the plain’s a thing of beauty while the
whirlwind lady dances,
With her trailing flounces flowing on the
hills of shifting sand.
Yet I know I’ll find some changes when I
reach my destination:
Asphalt roads there’ll be and bridges over
creek and billabong, • ’
And here and there a farmhouse where there
used to be a station.
But they’ll never change the river or the
hills of Jugiong.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Proper Feeding Is Essential
Feed a dog too often and he’s slug-
gish. Under-feed him and he’s weak.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of vitamins.lt is put up in tins, consisting
of red meat, fresh vegetables, cereals, ground
bone and cod liver oil Dogs seldom tire
of it..... Try a tin today ....All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
rsnrfflsa
!/ FOOD
fof the Ag e<J
i !*>»"• bencers food ii 4
M »»(HCSTtB INGLamO
e
Food
Rec*L Tradic Mark.
for the Aged.
Benger’s Food is an abundant
source of nutrition for aged per-
sons. Those whose digestive
powers are impaired will find it
very soothing and comforting.
Taken at night Benger’s induces restful
sleep.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER'S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
Hi
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/G.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
“Dimon”: Met an old-timer the other day
in a Sydney suburban street—a two-wheeled
bullock-dray drawn by six bullocks. It was
that sort of conveyance long ago that marked
out George-street. Though many a similar
vehicle is still found on “inside” selections,
its utility is mostly confined to the home-
stead, the team being usually a mixture of
bulls and cows. It suits well enough for
rattling up and down gullies and bumping
through trackless forests, picking up timber
and laying fencing material across all sorts
of country. It is the one vehicle on the place
that is never painted, and the only teamster’s
turnout that has no name.
* . * * *
“Cygnis Insignis”: The itinerant fresh-
water lakes of the Lake Grace district (W.A.)
knock “Mako’s” lone example near Auck-
land (M.L.), recently mentioned on this
page, into a cocked hat. Passing over what
is now good wheat country between Corri-
gin and Lake Grace, explorer-surveyor Roe
in 1847 was most emphatic that the country
was a waterless desert except for a chain
of salt lakes. Subsequent surveyors showed
fresl*»water lakes on their plans which later
surveyors could not locate. About 47 miles
n.-e. from Lake Grace, where Roe was with-
out water for four days, there appeared last
VALEDICTORY.
“Bejoore I bring my remarks to a collision, I would like to tell our departin’ guests
that this is the most pop’lar send-off we ever give anybody.”
winter a fresh-water lake some 200 acres in
extent and up to 15 feet deep. A few miles
to the south-west is a much larger lake, only
two years old. Last winter between Lake
Grace and the town that bears the same
name, a new lake with a depth of from
8 feet to 18 feet appeared and wrought havoc
with a roadway.
“Untong” : We were awakened, first thing
in the morning, by a wild tintinnabulation
amongst the biscuit- and jam-tins under one
of the bunks, due to a marauding goanna.
Infuriated by the loss of his last half-inch
of soap, the owner
hurriedly left the
haven of his blan-
kets. and chased the
monitor up the near-
est sapling. No-
thing daunted, the
goanna poked out
what looked like
about a foot of bifur-
cated blue ribbon at
him and the hunter
retaliated by return-
ing with his rifle.
The goanna now pro-
ceeded to exhibit one
of his favorite
a c c omplishments—
the art of alwmys
keeping the trunk of
the sapling between
the person on the
ground and himself.
After having walked
about a mile and a
half round the tree
in a vain endeavor
to catch a sight of
the quarry, the man,
now thoroughly
roused, walked over
some distance to the
cook’s galley, and
returned with an
axe, with which he
put in a strenuous
quarter of an hour
chopping the tree
down “in order,” as
he said, “to learn
him to leave my soap
alone.” The goanna,
however, had partici-
pated in this sport
before and was able
to enjoy the sight of
his human enemy
vainly searching for
his mangled remains, himself secure in the
topmost hollow of the highest blackbntt-tree
in the vicinity, whither lie had transported
AT*™ 1 wlle " the •*»
" as De “ g requisitioned. *
‘Dr. Nil”: I was a youngster when I
was in Bingara (N.S.W.) in 1887, and the
All Nations Reef was being worked by the
Wearnes. . It was the only paying gold show
on that diggings at the time. The sound of
the .stampers, going all night, took a bit of
getting used to at first. Later on it was
only when they stopped that we woke up.
Bingara—by the way, we spelt it “Bingera”
—was a small two-pub town then with a
coach-mail daily from Tamworth railhead,
and a cross-country ditto about once or twice
a week to Invci’ell. The latter was taken
in a “shanghai” tandem, which I once had
the pleasure of driving most of the way,
while the mailman read The Bulletin.
Wiskens and Veness ran a newspaper in
Bingara, and the Veness family drove the
Tamworth coach (a night stage), and had
done so, father and sons, for many years—
breaking new tracks through the ironbark
and box mountain country, many of which
they had never seen in the daylight. They
were fine drivers. If you got off the regu-
AFTER THE CRASH.
VOICE (from within ): “Have you broken anything, Mary?”
MARY: “No, missus—only bruise ’em.”
lar tracks in some parts, even in the day,
you were very apt to put one of your wheels
into an abandoned shaft —anything up to
50 feet deep. I was offered a half-share in
the diamond-mine near Bingara in payment
of a medical bill; but preferred to write
off the debt—being Scotch.
■** * *
“Monsoon Mike”: Begging “Tee Esbie’s”
pardon (B. 14/1/’3l), the whale doesn’t live
500 years, and probably not a tenth of it.
At the South Georgia whaling research
station the observers have for a good while
been marking calf whales of known age with
metal discs bearing the date and place of
birth. The discs are shot into their hides
from a special gun. Enough have been re-
turned by whalers to prove definitely that the
ordinary commercial species of whale reach
maturity within four years, attaining a
length of 40 or more. feet. The general rule
amongst, plaeentate mammals, of which the
whale is one, is for the duration of life to
average from five to six times the period
between birth and sexual maturity.
* * >!-• *
“Cooramin”; Abos. of old days seem to
have gathered. at certain; spots for years for
oyster feasts, at times carrying loads of
the shellfish considerable distances to the
banqueting ground. On the banks of the
Pambula River there were piles of shells
10ft. deep, and the immense store was con-
verted by locaß farmers into lime for enrich-
ing their cultivation paddocks. These spots
may have been old camping grounds; but at
Ballina, on the Richmond River (N.S.W.),
there were similar large heaps where an abo.
village. would . not be located. The place
was called Boolina by the blacks, which
means-“place of oysters.” Hundreds of shells
in those beds were as large as saucers. It
is said that neighbors were sometimes in-
vited to the feast from far inland.
. * .* * *
“John Drayman”: The reefs which have
been fished for generations by Southern Tas.
fishermen' are generally fairly alive with
gurnet, and sometimes it is necessary to
thin out these hungry shoals before the
trumpeter will take the bait. This means
hauling in perhaps scores of the inferior fish
before anything marketable finds its way
into the boat’s well. Occasionally these
hauls of gurnet are kept aboard and later
boiled soft for “burley” on the netting
grounds,'but generally they are flung direct
from the hook to the mollyhawks, gannets
and Pacific gulls that hover round any fish-
ing-boat. On the perch banks the perch,
gurnet and other habitants bite more or less
indiscriminately, and the seabirds have fewer
big feasts and more exercise. Though a
hungry mollyliawk will occasionally grab a
perch off the hook before the fisherman can
land it in the boat, the birds mostly have
the manners to wait until they are served.
Thus if a perch is being hauled in the birds
continue to loaf around in the offing with
a keen eye glued to the depths, but when a
gurnet or similar victim is hooked they
eagerly follow up the line and clamor at the
boatside for their rights. If two mollyhawks
happen to get their beaks into the fish simul-
taneously an “all-in” fight ensues. The sea
is filled with the splashings and the turmoil
of mighty wings, and the welkin is assailed
with the frightfully discordant screams of
innumerable delighted barrackers. This con-
tinues until something breaks—usually the
bone of contention.
* * * *
“Murrawong”: “Pick” made that blind
wool-classer yarn (B. 24/12/’3O) a bit too
hot. I contend that keen eyesight is a very
necessary factor in the game, and you cau
ask any classer his opinion of some of the
badly-lighted woolrooms he has had to work
in for further confirmation. A blind man
with a lifetime of wool experience behind
him might be able to make lines on the “long,
short and shoddy” principle, but in most
cases he would be tricked on spinning quality
—one of the chief factors in classing nowa-
days. I have an instance in mind of a man
who had classed the same clip for several
decades and was kept on by the owners out
of sentiment, though his failing sight was
only too evident. He finally had to be passed
out at the insistent requests of the brokers.
* * $ *
“Tee Essbie” : The other day a couple of
schoolboys at Bellingen (N.S.W.) caught
a crab which measured 36in. from tip to
tip. Each claw was 12in. long and 3in thick.
But that’s only a midget alongside the
Japanese “giant spider-crab,” which has a
body 3 Sin. long and 12in. wide, and measures
3.oft. from tip to tip of its claws.
* sjc ❖ *
“Kooragai”: A marine curiosity that occa-
sionally gets netted on the N. S. Wales
coast is the angler-fish, which is provided
with a fleshy rod and bait for catching its
prey. The rod is an appendage growing
from the head, and has a fisli-like filament
on the end which dangles before the angler’s
open mouth. When the prey makes a dart
for the bait it is jerked out of the. way,
and the yawning maw engulfs the innocent.
The angler, which generally lurks among
weeds, where it is hard to see, is as ugly
as anything that swims, and has small side
limbs for climbing among strong marine
growths. On account of this weedy environ-
ment it is one of the rarest of the finny
tribe that comes into the hands of fishermen.
One or two that I have seen resembled en-
crusted oyster-shells in shape and color. In
some places the creature is called the walk-
ing-fish and in others the fishing-frog,
though it bears no resemblance to a frog.
It lives chiefly on shrimps.
THE LOG PILOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adown the long river,
Deep-browning with mud,
The trees bend and quiver
’Fore the rush of the flood;
Now standing, now stooping
Where snags lie in scores,
The pilot goes swooping
’Tween scrub-covered shores.
A wild merry course is
The swift-running stream,
Where creeks add their forces
Abaft and abeam,
And rapids and narrows
Are thick with the spoil
Of the watey that harrows
The rich river soil.
Huge logs of red cedar
Roll, tumble and turn
With miles ’tween the leader
And the giants astern.
Through green boughs asliiver,
Through flotsam and spray,
’Tis a joy on the river
When the logs dash away.
Ever watching behind them,
Releasing the strays
From lianas that bind them
In scrub-tangled ways,
Day-long lie’s careering
Around the long bends,
For the tidal head steering
Where the lumber race ends.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Britain's best pump gives
double pressure with
half the effort
Recognised to be the “Master”
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action, a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the
best tyre-pump in the world.
KISMET
DUPLEX "MASTER"
FOOT PUMP
Two
è
in One
Patentees and Sole Manujavturers:
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
é
PRICE, WITH
GAUGE, 84/-
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD. G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Alanager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World's largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
SMOKE-OH!
Bobs was a popular game till Lang took
it on.
SUCH A COMFORT!
MEDICO: “Urn! I’m afraid you’re pretty bad and had better get
into bed—this might be serious. I’ll send a prescription
along presently. But you mustn’t expect too much from
drugs; you’re getting on in years now, you know.”
PATIENT: “Thanks, Doctor — you’re such a help! Perhaps you
wouldn’t mind calling at the undertaker’s as you’re going
back. Five feet eight is my length. Elm, with nickel
mountings, please ; and perhaps Sunday would be the most
convenient day for my friends.”
From the “S. M. Herald” —and believe us
or not, it isn’t one of Mr. Scullin’s financial
pronouncements:—
“It may be well in certain eumstance” and in so
doing to “rise to higher cumstances” and in so
doing to “rise to higher things.”
* #
The answer to the American fruit machines
was a melon.
•Y -Y
Charity won't begin at Home till our credit
improves.
DOWN AT THE DE-PRESS CLUB.
The Sinister Influence collapsed on the
lounge. “Hell! What a job mine is on the
‘S. M. Herald.’ They make me rear my
ugly head night and day!”
“You over-worked!” sneered The Oldest
Gag in Existence. “Pah ! You wouldn’t last
a week in my ‘Man About Town’ job on
the “News!”
“You chaps make me laugh,” said the
Capitalistic Octopus. “Up at the ‘Labor
Daily’ they drive me right round the clock —
and this, mark you, is a crowd that’s always
harping on shorter hours.”
A Little Mother from “Smith’s Weekly,”
accompanied by That Most Beautiful of
God’s Created Beings, an Innocent Child,
and a brace of Loathsome Scandals, was
about to add her quota when a commotion
in the doorway startled them all.
The Exclamation Mark from the “Daily
Guardian” staggered in and collapsed on
the floor. Club members hastened to its
assistance, but quickly realised the end was
near. Reverently they covered up the worn-
out form and repaired to the bar, where
they swore never to complain about work
again.
* Y
We spell it “Democrazy” now.
V Y
“Australia may need a strong political farce to
preserve its national life.”— “News.”
Well, isn’t Australia getting it?
“The notorious American brigand was known as
'Texas Jack.’ —Movie news.
An odd coincidence: N.S.W.’s is known as
“Taxes Jack.”
Y #
“Motorist Derides Pedestrians.” — “Sun.”
To modernise Shakspeare: “He jests at
wounds that never felt a car.”
%. *
“The famous Sisley area is to be -used for aero-
nautic displays.”— Cable.
Where once the target showed out plain
The ’plane will now go scooting;
Some shooting we may see again,
But ’twill be parachuting.
“What is Capital ?” — J. T. Lang.
Well N.S.W.’s creditors think it would be
capital if he had enough to pay them.
* ¥
“The scales on defendant’s cart were l?oz. short
in the pound. A plausible rogue, he had defrauded
many of his customers.’’ — Police-court report.
He had a weigh with him, so to speak.
ANOTHER AMBITION
REALISED.
LADY WHO DOTES ON ART: “And have any other of your childish
hopes been realised?”
THE ARTIST WHO KNOWS SHE ISN'T A BUYER: “Only one! When
mother used to cut my hair I wished I hadn’t any.”
BLAME THE BOSS.
“Reginald, we can’t be so hard up. Before
we were married you told me you were
worth at least £15 a week.”
“So I am, my dear. But the damn firm
only pays me six.”
There’s no horse sense in Lang’s betting
tax.
As regards tlie
solution of the un-
employment problem,
Lang is certainly
making his wait felt.
INACTION JUSTIFIED.
Fair broke the dawn—well, anyhow, at
eight
The sun teas shining, and the world looked,
gay.
Every known portent seemed to predicate
An absolutely perfect summer day.
Came lunch-time. Pouring rain began to
hide
The landscape, making mud pools near
and far —
And pleasurably I recalled that I’d
As near as dammit gone and cleaned the
car.
10-2-4.
RELEASING UNCLE BERT’S CREDIT.
“I will not be responsible for any debts contracted
in my name without my written authority. 11. E.
Beaver (Uncle Bert of 2KY).” — “S. M. Herald.”
Good evening, nephews and nieces. This
is Uncle Bert, of 2KY, Trades Hall,
speaking. Now, my chickabiddies, your
Uncle Bert has some-
thing rather unpleas-
ant to say to his
little nephews and
nieces this evening,
because a member of
the family has been,
to employ the ver-
na c u lar, releasing
credits in his name
without his written
authority. Just
imagine it! A teeny
little bird whispered
last night to your
Uncle Bert, who is
now broadcasting
from 2KY, that
Johnny Smith, of
Boundar y-s treet,
Hootville, was sick
all over his father's
petunias on Satur-
day afternoon, and
had to be given a
large dose of castor
oil that night by his
mother. Are you
better, Johnny
Smith, of Hootvilie,
and listening to your
Cncle Bert broad-
casting from 2IvY.
Trades Hall? I
hope so, as in that
case you will now
learn that your
Uncle Bert, of 2KY,
has been sent the
bill for the 51b. of
bulls’-eyes that you
released on his credit
from Mr. Mugge's
shop on Saturday
morning, and is re-
addressing same to
your father. Your
Uncle Bert has noth-
ing more to add to
this message, broad-
casted from 2IvY, ex-
cept that he was
sometimes tempted
himself, in early
youth, to release
things on other
people’s credits, and
that he then found an
atlas in the seat of the pants useful. Unfor-
tunately, however, it doesn’t always come
off. Good evening, nephews and nieces, and
particularly Johnny Smith. Good evening.
J. D.
SOCIETY NOTES
(By Our Special Representative in the
Depression Sector).
The “Stony” Brokes (she was, of course,
an intime of the De Chairs, while lie is
one of Sydney’s chicc st travellers in hides)
gave a bring-your-own-food party on Tuesday
which the Bright Young Things declare was
Simply Won-der-ful. Each guest put an
open cheque for £1 into a pool, the idea being
that the drawer of the
one which wasn’t dis-
honored should lift the
prize—two complimen-
tary Sunday tickets
for “Passion’s Howls”
at the Prince Horri-
bul. Nobody won, as
all the cheques came
positively rushing back
as soon as presented,
but the excitement
was terrific. Right to
the last Reggie Moron,
of Moron Downs,
thought he had a
chance. He has 12s.
6d. in his current
account (or so he
says) against an over-
draft of £27,000, and
his bank manager has
owed him a shilling
for ages.
The “Ikey” Mos, of
the historic firm which
recently put up the
shutters and took
down the balls, had a
harassing experience
on Saturday. They
arrived at their pala-
tial home after a day
in the surf (that being
the only public resort
which is still free) to
find one of Mr. Lang s
minions in possession.
Non -p a yment by
“Ikey” of the new 15s. in the £ tax on out-
size noses was responsible. Cave 8, the
Domain, will be their address till the end of
the month, unless they’re evicted beforehand.
Sir Augustus Empire-Boost, K.8.E., is in
residence again at Rev. Gloome’s Hostel
for Men, Botany, after an enjoyable sojourn
with his son, who has a bijou appartement,
or bed, at the Methodist Mission, Surry
Hills.
We’re all wildly excited at the news that
lovely Mrs. Winnie Sexagenarian has got
her first instalment of alimony—a bullock
and three sheep. She’s droving them (I do
hope that’s the right word) from the family
squattage in person, and should arrive in
town by the week-end. Her friends are
arranging a brilliant reception outside the
new Free Abattoirs in Hyde Park, and are
looking forward later to that almost-forgotten
experience—a solid feed.
H'. SINGEMOINE.
THE REPORTER LETS HIS HEAD GO.
James (“Potbag”) Dolittle (23), who is
in hospital with six bullets in his diaphragm
as a result of yester-
day’s shooting affray,
has no white-haired
Little Mother to
mourn his loss. No,
no. Peroxide set-
tled the color ques-
tion as regards Mrs.
Milly Dol ittle’s
thatch years ago.
“I hope he’s there
fer munce?” she
told a “Daily Blah”
representative last
night. “He’s bin tak-
ing every penny I’ve
had for booze. Now
I may have a bit of
sugar for the talkies.”
Asked for a photo-
graph for publication
Airs. Dolittle said:
“Go ter the Devil.”
Mr. Dolittle was
not interviewed, it
wouldn’t have been
worth it. H'e has
been suffering from
chronic alcoholism
since the year of
Queen Victoria’s
Diamond Jubilee,
neighbors stated, and
is only dimly aware
that he has a son.
The shooting is
never likely to be
cleared up, accord-
ing to Detective
Bumble, who is in
charge of the
He ought to know, as
he boasts the biggest
list of unsolved
crimes in the force.
A. O’C.


m
i
m
m
rnk
m
Is
sS»
981
p
1
AA
m:
;s
*J
*8
HAR-DT'S
SJPARfZLIJVG
fsai


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
k.
w
m
CHOIC
CIGAR
V EACH
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome... . and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITHEN,
(iol GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Courteous Service
from a staff of sixty
1
$
Prompt, efficient,
courteous attention is
assured at the Gros-
venor from the time
you enter until you
leave. A staff of
sixty people offers
service with a smile.
300 rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
k A<S
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
RAILWAY STATION
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
RUST AFTER DROUGHT.
“Tumbe Munda” : Red rust always seems
to be worst when a drought breaks —in S.
Aus., at all events. Nineteen-fifteen was a
rusty year; so was 1922 and so was 1930;
and all three were preceded by drought years.
It follows that when drought comes farmers
should prepare for the break-up by planting
rust-resisting varieties.
A problem this year is what to do with
the shrivelled grain. In our S. Aus. district
all crops arc smitten, but the effect is not
so noticeable on Major, Gluyas, Currawa or
Nabawa. Federation and Huff’s Imperial,
on the other hand, are pratically put out
of the market. The grain is useless for
flour-milling purposes, but it still can serve
a great variety of purposes. The rust has
not affected the bran or pollard portion of
the grain, but the gluten content is missing.
A grinder on the farm will give any
amount of capital bran and pollard. Several
kerosene-bucketsful steamed each day will
provide a supplementary ration for lambing
ewes. Further, under certain conditions this
grain is quite good seed. Tests have shown
that the germination of rusted grain is as
satisfactory as that of plump grain. The
resulting yield under dry conditions is, as
a rule, slightly less than that from good
grain. Under wet conditions even better
results have been achieved.
In one district where the ground is often
partly water-logged some of the farmers
prefer a pinched grain for seed. Their
experience (and my own) is that ordinary
wheat sown when the ground is full of water
or just before a rain will burst and perish.
On one occasion I started drilling and was
caught by a shower. Result, very poor ger-
mination of the wheat I had sown that
afternoon. The farmers mentioned have
demonstrated that a pinched grain sown
under such conditions can absorb a much
greater quantity of water without bursting
than can a sound grain, germination being
therefore superior.
SELLING WHEAT.
“Lowan”: Why not follow Oueensland’s
method of selling wheat? In the northern
State the grain is sold according to quality ;
there is no such farce as f.a.q. The Vic.
Wheat Board proclaims a sample of grain
f.a.q., and the price is fixed on that. A
little barley, oats or other foreign seed
will not condemn it, though that little
will amount to many thousands of bags
over the whole State. Queensland’s method
is to pay best for best, worst for
worst. Wimmera and Mallee farmers when
choosing seed say, “Oh, that is good enough.”
Men in Queensland would not look at the
grain a second time. Dairy produce is
graded, lambs are graded and both are paid
accordingly. The wlieatgrower who grows
the best of milling wheat and the best of
seed should be entitled to extra money;
under the Vic. system, he cannot get it.
WORKING THE FALLOW.
“Bendee” : “Valerin” (B. 14/1/’3l) raises
a complicated question. With wheat at
present prices the working of fallow may have
to be curtailed, but if a farmer has gone to
the trouble and expense of fallowing his land,
that land cannot be neglected. In N. S. Wales
a lot of fallow is growing luxuriant crops of
weeds, such as goosefoot, wild melons and
grass, since the heavy rain of a few weeks
ago. If these weeds are allowed to seed they
will mean a dirty crop this year, and if they
are not destroyed when young they use up
a lot of the moisture which the fallow was
designed to conserve, and draw on the plant
food which fallowing has released for the
use of the subsequent wheat crop. Crops of
weeds which are allowed to mature are also
going to cause a lot of fouling when wheat
is being sown, as they will not be sufficiently
decomposed to be absorbed by the ground.
While it is not advisable to use the disc
cultivator on a fallow just near seeding
time, owing to the fact that it breaks up the
compact seed bed, in a season such as the
present in N. S. Wales it is good enough
to take a risk on future rains, packing the
soil down again before sowing commences.
The disc cultivator is undoubtedly the best
means of destroying young weeds. When a
rigid-tined cultivator is used for this pur-
pose, there is a likelihood that a great pro-
portion of the weeds would grow again,
especially in a wet season.
BURNING OFF.
“Kilcoy” : Top-dressing and scientific farm-
ing of grass lands are almost unknown in my
part of Queensland. The possibilities are
vast. One reason wliy we are so backward
up here is that we have so much land we don’t
know its value. Every year in the coastal
belt we burn millions of tons of grain. Every-
one does it, cow-cockies and all, and it must
be waste. The earth produces grass in abund-
ance : we use half of it, and every spring
burn the other half. Unavoidable at present?
Yes, because the natiye grasses are valueless
after the frost has bitten them. We mostly
have no clovers, and the dry grass just clogs
the old cow’s inside and must be burnt to
make room for a fresh crop.
A S. Australian whom I was showing round
remarked on the wonderful body of feed (it
was just after the winter). 1 said, “Yes,
we’ll get a wonderful burn.” “Heavens!” he
said. “You won’t burn that, will you? If we
had that in S.A. we’d buy a few thousand
head of sheep to eat it.” If I hadn’t been to
S.A. I wouldn’t have believed him. (S.A. is
wonderfully developed : more so than Victoria,
I’d say.) If the South Australians with
money and the Victorians would only take a
look round this country in Queensland they
wouldn’t waste their time down there.
Then, again, this burning off every year
what effect will it have on our soils ulti-
mately? Will it ruin them? Surely this burn-
ing off year after year is robbing the soil of
all humus. It’s a big question; but the old-
timers particularly can’t keep their hands
off the matchbox if they see a patch of dry
grass—they think it will burn. There’s one
good thing; we never get bush fires.
CULTIVATION OF SALTBUSH.
“Wandi”: California has shown what can
be done with saltbush, which now covers a
lot less of its native country than it used to
do. Large areas in the arid parts of Cali-
fornia were planted years ago with seed
obtained principally from Queensland and
the western districts of N.S.W., and this
feed was green and succulent during droughts
when there was not a vestige of other herb-
age to be seen.
An American report that “three cuttings
were practicable during the driest season
known” is intriguing. I have spent years
in saltbush country, but never knew the
plants to be cultivated and cut—like lucerne,
though experiments in cultivating and con-
serving at Dimboola showed that several
kinds were excellent for the purpose in the
Vic. Mallee country. The creeping saltbush
(Airiplex scmibaccata) , which has been ex-
perimented with, spreads enormously under
cultivation. Like all the species, it is self-
propagated, and generally severely eaten
down, on sheep-runs. It will cut five or six
tons to the acre, or 15 tons in a fair season
with three cuttings.
It is claimed that the freedom of stock
from disease on interior runs is due to sali-
bush, and that it is a preventive against
fluke in sheep. In fact, ailing stock from the
tablelands and coastal areas have been
cured when shifted on to saltbush country.
Horses, cattle and sheep are ravenously fond
of saltbush, all kinds of which are valuable
for their nutritious and saline properties
and their drought-resisting qualities. The
plants will grow nearly anywhere, barring
swampy country, and can be propagated from
seed and cuttings. A few plants will rapidly
spread in a paddock, if allowed to seed, and
there is no need for rock salt where they
grow.
THOSE UDDER TROUBLES.
“Bar. Iv.”: Most of them can be put
down to mastitis, or, as it is more com-
monly called, mammitis —really inflamma-
tion of the udder. In its most troublesome
form mammitis is carried through the herd
by a germ, either on the hands of the milker
or through the milking-machines. It may
also be present in the pastures where cows
have lain down, and can be picked up in
any way by which the germ comes in contact
with teats.
Mammitis is often very slow in manifest-
ing itself, the udder gradually becoming
harder and with a tendency to lumpiness.
As the disease advances the milk yield is
reduced until the milk itself becomes obvi-
ously affected, and perhaps comes out like
pus. In such cases the farmer may not
detect the trouble until it is well advanced
and other cows in the herd have been in-
fected. Occasionally the attack is much
quicker, acute inflammation causing the
udder to become hot and swollen.
Affected cows .should be isolated and
should be hand-milked after the rest of the
cows have been turned out, the receptacle
being a tin containing some strong disin-
fectant. There are various vaccines on the
market; and a good deal of success has been
obtained in preventing infection by inocula-
tion. Before deciding upon this submit a
sample of milk to the local stock inspector
for bacterial examination, so as to be sure
that inoculation will cope with the type of
mammitis present. Cows with tubercular
mammitis should at once be slaughtered.
Occasionally a cow that lias just calved
will suddenly develop an enlarged udder and
become feverish, and her milk-producing
organs will cease to function. She must be
at once drenched with 2oz. of ground ginger
and lib of Epsom salts in a quart of warm
water. The udder should be bathed with
warm water, and then massaged gently for
10 to 15 minutes. A little watery milk or
pus can then probably be milked out, and
the massaging and milking should be repeated
several times a day. This will tend to pro-
mote a healthy circulation of the udder, and
will often effect a cure provided action is
taken immediately. If abscesses appear on
the udder they should be opened when ready,
and not allowed to burst.
UNDERGROUND DRAINAGE.
“Noah F'raid”: In the colder parts of
Australia, shallow surface drainage often
assists the grazier by accelerating the dis-
charge of surplus water during prolonged
or heavy rain. Flooding is thereby avoided,
and with the increase of soil temperature
over the greater part of the paddock, parti-
cularly along the crowns, early growth is
given to the pasture. Surface drainage on
arable land is likewise practised by wheat-
growers and the like, also with an eye to
soil temperature and prevention of flooding.
Ditch drainage is requisite when farming
or grazing on certain classes of country
where the soil is of a poor type and the
rainfall sufficiently heavy to cause it to
“spew.” The costly underground drainage
which is often so essential to success in
intense culture presents entirely different
features, and carries with it many factors
which may be overlooked.
You cannot say for certain that a soil is
well drained because it has a good fall. I
recall a Yic. orchard with a light soil rest-
ing on a subsoil of yellow clay. The sur-
face showed a fall to the south with a lesser
fall to the west. Trees in the southerly por-
tion were not doing well, and the cause
was placed at the door of bad drainage. A
system of underground drains was installed
along the southerly fall from end to end of
the orchard. The results were not what the
orchardist expected; as a matter of fact the
“sick” trees began to die. Investigation
proved the clay subsoil to be high at the
high end of the paddock. It dipped with
the fall for a distance, and then rose again
at the lower end of the orchard. The soil,
which was at first Bin. deep, deepened to 4ft.,
and then became shallow again at the low
end, where it was 16in. deep. The owner,
in running tile drains along the fall at a
depth of 2ft. 6in., perforce had to cleave the
clay half-way down the orchard, thereby
placing the pipes on a sandy soil bottom.
Such little drainage as there was accelerated
the flow from the high part of the
orchard and. concentrated it elsewhere when
the drain, having left the impervious clay,
discharged water at the joints like a sieve.
To make matters worse, the sand moving
with the seepage destroyed the drain levels.
By draining across the fall to the west into
a main outlet drain on the southerly fall the
result would have been entirely different.
The correct thing to do in all cases is to
collect data as to levels and soil depth, using
a suitable auger or shallow shafts, and then
drain on the impervious or semi-impervious
strata across the fall into a main drain along
the fall, which is graded to take all cross
drains. Special attention must be paid to
draining the lowest part of the subsoil —
i.e., the basin, if any.
TACKLING THE FRUIT-FLY.
“Balkem” : In N. S. Wales, as in West-
ralia (B. 14/1/’3l), the fruit-fly is making
its presence felt earlier in the season than
usual. W. B. Gurney, the departmental
entomologist, recommends foliage baits, but
is evidently of opinion that they should be
a bit stronger than those used in Westralia.
His plan is to boil 41b. to 61b. of waste
fruit in a gallon of water, .strain off the
syrup and make up to four gallons by
adding three gallons of water in which 41b.
of molasses have been mixed and soz. of
lead arsenate powder stirred. Four to six
ounces of this is to be sprayed on a patch
of foliage on one side of the tree, and an equal
quantity on the other side when the operator
passes down between the next row. Apply
to the same patches once a week; repeat
should there be a heavy shower immediately
after application. Keep this up till the
fruit ripens.
Five applications of the spray cost only a
penny a tree. In N.S.W. peach orchards
infestation has by this means been reduced
as much as 80 p.c.
Needless to say, infested fruit must also
be gathered up and destroyed. The digging
of a pit in which fruit may be dumped is
departmentally recommended. It should be
4ft. or sft. wide and sft. or 6ft. deep, and
the top should be capped by a galvanised-
iron cover on a wooden frame.
BANANAS AND SUNBURN.
“Johnno”: Cavendish bananas, the variety
most commonly grown in Queensland and
northern N. S. Wales, are liable to damage
from sunburn, especially when the planta-
tion is sheltered by surrounding scrub or
tucked away in a pocket between hills. The
bunches, particularly when nearing maturity,
should be protected from the direct rays of
the midsummer sun, which is best done by
drawing together and tying down to the
bunch the two leaves immediately above it,
being careful not to break the leaf-stem in
the process. When a plantation is exposed
to the free action of the winds, as upon a
hillside, there is usually no need to protect
the bunches, as the constant action of the
wind tends to cause them to oscillate,
preventing the sun’s rays from focussing on
a particular spot. That is why the taller
growing varieties of bananas, sueli as sugar
and plantains, are seldom damaged by the
sun. Also, it is always advisable to protect
a freshly-cut bunch of bananas (any variety)
from the direct rays of the midday sun in
summer, as exposure to the sun on a hot day
will result in the fruit being burnt black.
NEWSPAPERS AS MULCH.
“S. Quire” : I have been challenged by two
of your contributors for advocating the use
of paper mulch. Full details of my trial
would take too much space, but here’s a
brief account.
My Vic. district has a rainfall of
about 25in. and the soil is light. I used
newspapers as mulching material. One side
of the vegetable garden is under paper whilst
the other is regularly cultivated —a soil
mulch. Lettuces from the paper-mulch area
are regularly twice the size as those from
the soil-mulch patch, and so far none have
gone to seed, whereas with the soil mulch
(and the same amount of water) fully 20
per cent, have been lost in this way. In
the hot sun the plants lose their crispness,
to recover in the evening, but the recovery
is quicker and better in the case of the
paper mulch—due to its action in reducing
soil temperature and conserving moisture.
Other vegetables show the advantage of the
paper mulch in an unmistakable manner.
The papers are folded and laid, not too
carefully, on tilled ground (soil mulch). Wet
weather has had no deleterious effect on the
mulch and no weeds have appeared. There
is a limit in all things ! The paper mulch
does not cover the whole of the surface, nor
is it airtight—there is ample room for aera-
tion. As to labor, all the vegetable garden
is going under paper next summer because
it will save me a lot of time and toil.
In my experience the mulch does not
encourage injurious moulds nor encourage
insect pests. I went to the trouble of lift-
ing my mulch to search for insects and found
nothing but worms.
WHY USE WINKERS?
“Paul C.”: “Booraby” (B. 7/l/’3l) is
quite correct in saying that ill-fitting winkers
cause discomfort and often defective eye-
sight in harness horses. But why use winkers
at all? The idea that a horse worked in
harness with a bridle is likely to bolt when
he is able to see what is behind and about
him is illogical. Why doesn’t the saddle horse
bolt. when he sees all that is to be seen?
It is because he has been accustomed to
see all about him from the start. It would
be just the same with the harness horse if
he were broken with a bridle. I have
broken and driven light harness horses with
a bridle, and have found they take no more
notice of the vehicle behind them than they
would of a saddle on their backs. As these
are more highly strung than thel heavy
horse, I consider it a relic of barbarism to
make the plodding draught-horse wear eye-
ruining winkers. It would be just as logical
to plug his ears lest he might hear disturb-
ing noises.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) Is sheep-farming likely to again
become a profitable undertaking? (2) Do
you advise holding wool for a later market?
—1042.
(1) Can’t prophesy, but if the history of
the market can be taken as an indication,
prices should soon show an upward ten-
dency. In 1921 prime export lambs realised
6s. per head; three years later the
(Continued on page 26.)


FOR
SUMMER
WEAR
m
“AERIAL” TWO-PIECE
SUMMER SUITS
A tropical, lightweight
2 - piece Suit; cool,
porous and smartly
cut. In shades of
Grey and Fawn, with
fine pencil - striped
effects. Sizes to fit
every figure. Send
your height, chest,
waist and
inside leg
measurements
and state
the color
preferred.
2-PIECE SUIT
READY-TO-WEAR.
89/6
PRICE from
r !
J,
Y
f '
SEND YOUR ORDER TO DESK S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH AND TOWNSVILLE.
.
WILD WEST
COMMANDING THE APPROVAL OF MEN
WHO LIVE OUT BACK.
An exceedingly popular wide-leaf Hat that is worn through-
out the Commonwealth. The cut edge of 3i-inch width,
gives a generous shade. Ideal for summer wear. In Steel
and Fawn shades. Made in Australia.
State size when ordering.
Price
30/-
Uhe
“PERFECTOE”
An “Embassy” Shoe that is
exceedingly stylish yet reason-
ably priced. Built on comfort-
able lines in Tan Calf with
broad heels, blind eyelets and
the latest stitching effects. Calf-
lined backs. Full and half
sizes. Also in Black Calf.
Medium toes. Won-
derful value.
Price ......
246
( .
SEND YOUR ORDER TO DESK S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH AND TOWNSVILLE.
S>6e
“HUSH” Silent Flusher
(Improved Pattern)
ê
Approved by the various
Water and Sewerage
Boards.
Constructed for Fitting
on Either Hand.
ë
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Amusing Stories for Speakers, by Austin, 3/5;
Pears’ Cyclopaedia, 4/10; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/3; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune
Teller, 3/4 ; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/3 ; Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/5 ; Nervous Breakdowns
and How to Avoid Them, 4/6; The Skin, Its Care and Treatment, by Strickler, 7/8; The Teeth
and the Mouth, by Hartman, 7/7; Colds—Cause, Cure and Treatment, by Cecil, 7/7; Dress
Making Made Easy, 3/-; The Specialist (the man who could write a book like The Specialist, and
get away with it, is a genius), 2/9; Expectant Fathers, Their Care and Treatment, 2/9;
Woman Be Beautiful, 3/1; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/2; Cocktails and How to Mix Them,
4/1; Safe Marriage, by Ettie A. Rout, 5/5; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/5; Wise
Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4 ; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4 ;
Lawn Tennis, by Suzanne Lenglen, 4/3; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/3; The Letter Writer’s
Handbook, 5/10; Cocktails, 3/-; Recitations for Boys and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6; More
Recitations for Boys and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6; Elocution and Gesture, by Alice Has-
luck, 4/2; Recitations for Ladies, by Alice Hasluck,' 5/6 ; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for
Boys and Girls, 3/4 ; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6 ; Cards for Three, by
Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games: “Hoyle Up to Date,” 2/3; Popular
Card Games and How to Play and Win, F. Ings, 1/5 ; 50 Best Conjuring Tricks, by Charles Crayford,
1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4:
Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; The Handyman, Home Jobs and Repairs, 1/-; Minor
Ills and Ailments and How to Treat Them, 1/-; Draughts and Dominoes, 1/-; Chess, 1/-; Poultry
Keeping for Profit and Pleasure, 1/-; Billiards, 1/-; Life After Death, 2/6; Practical Palmistry
(Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading Made Easy, by Noel
Jaquin, 4/3; Chess and Draughts and How to Play, by A. Belasco, 1/6; 12 Best Indoor Games
for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Best 100 Puzzles Solved and Answered, by Tom King, 1/6; Good
Stories and Jokes, by Charles Roberts, 1/6; Sex and Disease, by Storer, 8/1; Ward Lock’s
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/4; How Shall I W r ord It? 2/8; The New Ford, by
E. T. Brown, 4/7; All About Photography, by P. R. Salmon, F.R.P.S., 4/4 ; The Bulletin Reciter,
2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9; How to Read
the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; The Correct Guide to Letter Writing, 5/8; Practical Carpentry for
Amateurs, 1/9; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for
Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9; Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-;
Doctor At Home and Nurse’s Guide, by Geo. Black, 8/9 ; Contraception, by Marie C. Stopes, 22/7 ;
Mayes’ Aust. Builders and Contractors’ Price Book (Illustrated), 15/10; Bookstall Gem Dictionary,
2/5; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/5; Sex at Choice, by
Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/8; Pruning, 3/10; Boot Mending for the Amateur, by S. H. Lane,
1/6; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Oxford School Atlas for Aust.
and New Zealand, 4/-; The Candy Cook Book, by Alice Bradley, 9/3; More About How to Draw
in Pen and Ink, by H. Furniss, 7/5; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Woman’s Enquire Within, 1/7;
Zancig’s New Complete Palmistry, 2/4; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/8; Enquire Within, 4/8;
What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/8; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington,
4/10; Owner Driver’s Handbook, by Edward T. Brown, 5/11; Home Carpentry, by John
Barnard, 4/5; Polishes and Stains for Woods, 2/7; The Science of a New Life, 8/2; Labor
Saving Hints and Ideas for the Home, 3/2; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;
How to Drive a Car, 4/4; Aust. Enquire Within, 3/2; Novelty Evenings, 2/5; Manners and
Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Boys’ Book of Carpentry and Electricity, 3/5; Modern Lacquer
Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/11; Enduring Passion, by Marie
Stopes, 8/1; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 8/1; Sex and the Young, Stopes, 4/8.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPT.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.


n
1
1
Sturdy smartness
From toe to Keel the broadly
welted, rugged sole of this smart
Abbey Shoe runs with undimin-
ished thickness. There’s no thin-
ning under instep. Extra wear
is guaranteed.
Its upper of the finest calf is
cut in a special way to accommo-
date the instep arch. You will
remark its easy fit. . . .enhanced
by the low-cut sides.
Postal Orders: Narrow, medium
and wide fittings are available in
all full and half sizes. Specify
width and order, also, a supply
of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy clean-
ing outfit (2/6).
Dark Tan Calf . . 48/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 214.
ē
:
L
■
■
W
fmf&tfi 2 s SSjN
si.
r O
THE
PALACE HOTEL
WITH
mmrtmm
:FIRST-CLASS
'TELEPHONES
5 200 BATHROOMS
ißAM6f'«O»«Woytn
aOHKHSS
7RuedelEchelle
(AVENUE DE L'GPtRA)
THE PASTOBAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A, P. McLEAN, General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
same type of lamb was sold for 38s. Wool
sold as low as 2d. in 1921 and up to 53d. in
1.1-4. (2) Not advisable. Wool loses its
rresh appearance and will not handle well
it kept for 12 months, and there’s always
the risk of damage from moths.
I have been told that soya beans cannot be
grown in Vic. (1) Is that correct? (2)
IToio would Igo about planting and cultivat-
ing the crop, as I'm determined to give it
a trial? (3) Does it need much manuring
and how is it to be, harvested? —992.
(1) Numerous attempts have been unsuc-
cessful. The plants require a warm, humid
climate and a fairly heavy summer rainfall.
They are sensitive to frosts at all stages of
growth, and seeding must be delayed until
danger of injury from this cause is past.
(2) Tlie seed-bed should be prepared by
ploughing early and subsequently cultivat-
ing thoroughly to reduce to a fine tilth and
to kill weed growth. Seed should be planted
not more than 2in. or 3in. deep in rows 30in.
to 36in. apart, with 3in. to Gin. between plants.
The seed required varies from 51b. to 121 b.
Per acre; the surface must be kept loose
by light harrowing before the plants come
through. If weed growth is at all bad, it
will be necessary to cultivate between the
rows. (3) Since beans are easily burnt by
direct contact with mineral fertilisers, only
a small quantity of this manure should be
sown in the row. As a fodder crop the
greatest palatability and feeding value are
obtained when the pods are just forming.
For seed, the crop should be cut when about
three-fourths of the pods are ripe. Cutting-
can be done with an ordinary mower, and
the grain can be threshed with an ordinary
thresher after adjusting the drum to pre-
vent cracking of the grain.
Where is Cystine O.S. obtainable? Price
and method of using? —l2l6.
It is a preparation marketed by the Metro-
politan Meat Board of N. S. Wales in 101 b.,
251 b., 501 b. and 1501 b. bags, at the rate of
£ll per ton wholesale, and £l3 per ton
retail. It is in powder form, and is fed in
troughs mixed with lick. The board can
supply a free booklet concerning its use.
Will the use of sawdust as mulch have a
harmful effect on soil? If so, in what
manner ? —1152.
Harmless as a summer mulch, but
wouldn’t recommend its use in autumn.
I have a farm on which there is some pine,
which I cut and haul on to skids, whence it
is picked up by a motor-carrier, who hauls
it to the mill. This work is only casual.
Must I insure the driver under the Q’land
Workmen’s Compensation Act? —76l.
Yes. The Act provides that where any
person enters into a contract with another
person to haul or load timber the latter shall
be deemed to be a worker employed by the
principal and should, therefore, be insured.
What are the chief uses of the burrawong-
tree, found in Eastern Australian coastal dis-
tricts?, —1251.
Stuffing for couches, mattresses and other
upholstery is provided by the fine brownish
wool which cbvers the upper part of the
stem, and a large percentage of power-
alcoliol has been obtained from the trunk.
The palm-like leaves, when dried and treated
with a preparation which preserves their
color, are used for decorative purposes.
Several by-products have been discovered
since the war, including a dye said to have
the qualities of cochineal, and fibre from
which a paper-pulp useful for belting or
packing can be manufactured; the bulbs con-
tain 15 per cent, of starch and 30 per cent,
of pollard, the last-named having been found
useful as cattle-fodder in time of drought.
Why do poultry-farmers rear most of their
chicks in pointer? —930.
It is possible to bring stock hatched dur-
ing July and August to lay in four and one
half months. Those hatched during Decem-
ber and January take six months or more,
and commence to lay when eggs are cheap.
The market price of eggs is highest during
May, rapidly declines in June and July, and
is very low in August. Best prices are
realised during January, February, March
and April, and early-hatched birds —-late
winter and spring—are laying during the
period when prices are at their peak.
llow to (1) prevent and (2) cure chicken-
pox among turkeys? —96s.
(1) Flocks should be given regular doses
of Epsom salts and sulphur in their mash
from January to April. Dissolve salts in the
liquor in which the mash is to be mixed,
thereby getting an even distribution. The
usual amount is lib. per 300 birds, adminis-
tered every Monday morning. Sulphur
is mixed with bran before wetting at
the rate of l|lb. to every 300 birds,
and is given every Tuesday morning. The
houses should be frequently cleaned and
sprayed with a good disinfectant. It is sug-
gested that the roosts be painted with kero-
sene or tar-oil and the houses sprayed with
chloride of lime—4oz. to 6oz. to the gallon of
water. (2) All birds showing signs of the
disease should be isolated. Salts and sulphur
should be given in the manner prescribed,
but at the rate of lib. of each to every
100 birds. The sores should be washed iu
water made claret color with permanganate
of potash, and when they are thoroughly
dry, painted with iodine.
Treatment to be given a dog which has a
tick?— lll6.
Saturate the part with turpentine or dilute
ammonia and remove the tick intact with
forceps—or tweezers, if located imme-
diately. An enema of soap and water should
be administered. Give whisky or brandy in
half- to teaspoon doses in water, and
repeat every four hours if necessary. From
five to fifteen drops of aromatic spirits of
ammonia in water is also a goo’d stimulant.
(1) My dog has a film growing over one
eye; the other seems slightly affected. Some
time ago the eyes were sore and discharged
a considerable amount of matter. (1) Cause?
(2) Treatment? —1181.
(1) Probably some form of ophthalmia
caused by germs. (2) The dog should be
examined by a vet. If that’s impossible
procure a tube of yellow oxide of mercury
ointment and squeeze a little into each eye
once daily.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dingo Flat” : Severing the bands of hoop-
iron on that bale of cornsacks is a bother
to many, but it shouldn’t be. Get a shift-
ing spanner—the small one from “Lizzie’s”
kit will do—fasten it firmly on the hoop,
move it smartly from side to side a few
times, and the job is done.
“Silentio”: Wimmera rye grass is in-
creasing in popularity, so don’t be late with
your orders for the autumn planting. In
N. S. Wales seed costs about 9d. a lb.; you
need from 21b. to 41b. per acre. It gives
green feed for • six to eight months of the
year, and all stock like it. It can be fed
alone or chaffed with other lines for balance.
Along the richer coastal areas, or for the
dairy farmer, the addition of a pound or
two of sub. clover will give the best pos-
sible ration.
“Gwalior” : To the farmer I say, “Select
your seed from the field.” This applies to
maize, wheat, oats, barley, saccaline and
what not. From a small patch each season
select seed and keep working that seed
up by re-selection each year. In that
way you will build up a strain that
under normal conditions will materially
improve your yield per acre. What is more,
there is a ready market for pedigreed seed
at a price 50 per cent, in advance of the
market value of the ordinary crop.
“Mulyan”: Never grind a tool on a dry
stone; it heats the blade and impairs the
edge. To keep the stone wet while in use,
let water trickle on it from a holed jamtin
suspended on a piece of fencing wire.
“Orn”: Further to “Bert the Carpenter”
(B. 14/1/’3l) on soldering, I gave up the
firepot long ago. For a small iron I use
an ordinary painter’s blowlamp, balancing
the iron over the mouth of the blast; for
the larger lib. iron, try a primus. The heat
is far more regular, and there is far less
danger of burning the iron, with waste of
time and patience in re-tinning. Get two
irons while you are about it.
“M.W.8.”: When a few head of cattle
have to be driven away from the homestead
they often cause a lot of bother. A good
plan is to attach light trace-chains with
strap horns or neck, letting the chain
drag. They keep tripping on the chain if
they try to bolt, and presently become docile.
“Peg”: On many farms calf- and pig-runs
are destitute of shade, except for low-built
corrugated-iron sheds, which in summer-time
become furnaces. Yet bough sheds can be
easily and cheaply erected. Drive or let four
corner-posts into the ground, add crosspieces
—saplings for preference—and secure firmly.
If netting is available, use to cover the
roof; then add your branches, rushes or
whatever material is used, with a few riders
to make the job complete. If timber is scarce
the support for the boughs can be made with
either plain- or barbed-wire.
“Mug Bushman”: When a tyre on the
utility is worn threadbare it is a common
thing these days to collect all the other
threadbare tyres and make one, with the
aid of a few sleeves, run a few more miles.
Better than that is to cut the wired edges
off an old cover and put it on over another
ancient tyre. It’s a bit of a job, but by
deflating the tyre, breaking the rim, and
pressing the cook and a crowbar (not to
mention a tyre iron or so) into service, the
outside cover can soon be manoeuvred into
its place. Then inflate the tyre to its normal
pressure, and you’ll get another 2000 or 3000
miles from the two duds —trouble-free, too,
for it’s a hardy mulga spike that will poke
through the two covers.
“Dimon”: When flies are bad a little
castor oil smeared round Dobbin’s eyes will
keep him free of the pest.
“Mulyan”: Don’t waste crows and walla-
bies that are shot on the farm. Boiled down,
they make good food for fowls and pigs.
“Orel”: A word of warning to anyone
who might be trying “W.D.Mc.’s” (B.
</l/’3l) suggestion to dip sheep late or more
than once as a preventive measure against
blowflies. If sheep carrying three months’
wool are dipped with a powder dip the wool
will be .stained, and the stain will probably
remain until shearing, giving the wool the
appearance of a wasty-tip. Instead of
knocking the sheep about with a second
dipping, dip them as usual a month or six
weeks off shears for ticks, and later on jet
them for flies. The strength for jetting is
one packet to 50gals. of water, which is far
too strong for dipping, but should keep flies
off the crutch. Keeping the sheep healthy,
careful crutching with machines, and trap-
ping and poisoning flies are the best methods
of keeping the fly trouble under control.
“0.W.W.”: Don’t waste the oil when
sharpening dagging shears. Sprinkle with
oil a square piece of sheepskin pelt, having
about six weeks’ wool on it, and use a pad
to moisten your stone.
“Sunflower”: Farmers should give sun-
flowers more space, if only to make a break-
wind for smaller crops. When they are
ripe pull the whole plants up and chop the
heads off with a sickle. The stalks make
bedding for the grunters, and a few taps
will thresh the seed-head. Pigs, fowls and
stock like the seed, which is full of oil and
fattening.
“B. Sting” : Always use a spirit-level when
setting down a framed beehive. If the hive
is placed the slightest degree off the hori-
zontal, the bees will hang their combs cross-
wise from one frame to the next; then there
will be much vexatious cutting and Waste
of honey before the frames can be lifted.
Where the hives are set perfectly on the
level the bees will work perpendicularly, and
much trouble will be avoided.
“Paul C.”: Try this method of growing
celery. Transplant seedlings into well-
manured ground in rows 18in. apart, leaving
loin, between the plants. When about lOin.
high gather them together and wrap and tie
old newspapers, at least two sheets thick,
round them, taking care to leave the longest
stems a couple of inches above the top of
the paper. As they grow above the wrapper,
successive sheets of paper should be placed
round and tied top and bottom. When about
18in. high tie each to a light stake. Where
the rainfall is not sufficient they need fre-
quent and plentiful watering. In this way
I have growm celery white and crisp and
over three feet long.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man wanted as tutor to boy, aged 10,
South Q’land home. Anglican preferred.—l3o3.
Party six experienced prospectors ready to spend
18 months exploring Northern Territory, new country,
for 18 shares in syndicate of 30 of £5O each. No
wages wanted. All discoveries to belong to syndi-
cate. Fullest inquiries invited as to knowledge and
integrity of members. Funds to be controlled by
some person selected by contributors. —1373.
Young man (24), Sydney, knowledge book-keeping
and surveying, wants job on station anywhere, any
capacity. Refs.-—1346.
Single man (31), N.S.W., wants position as
station manager, overseer or book-keeper, anywhere.
Twelve years exp. Refs.—l3s7.
Vic. journalist will type MSS., Is. 6d. per thou-
sand words, on good quality paper.—l3s4.
Journalist-compositor (50), Sydney, good all-round
man, wants employment suburban or country news-
paper or job-printing office. Refs.—l37o.
Q’land girl (15) wants position as nursemaid.
—1321.
Young man, N.S.W., wants job on farm or station.
Used to machinery.—l3B6.
Young man, Sydney, wants work as houseman, any-
where. Refs.—l29s.
Invalid, Sydney, wants typing work at home;
used to manuscripts.—l 297.
Educated young man, Sydney, knowledge law,
newspaper work and business, wants clerical job.
—1296.
Young returned soldier, Sydney, handy with boats,
bush carpenter, wants job anywhere along N.S.W.
coast. —1275.
Seaman, Sydney, ex-prisoner of war, captured by
raider Wolf, seeks any kind of work, land or
sea, holds R.A.C. Good discharge.—l 294.
Grocer, Vic., with knowledge of other general
store lines, handy with tools, wants change to
warmer climate—Q’land, W.A. or Islands preferred.
—1283.
Young man, N.S.W., book-keeper and secretary,
exp. with horses and motors, wants job on western
station.—l29l.
Ex-Digger (35), married, Vic., who has cleared,
planted and worked to full-bearing a Mallee fruit
block, wants team or tractor work, or management
of a mixed farm. —1260.
Book-keeper, Sydney, married (45), years of
country exp., wants job on station or anywhere in
any capacity.—l2s4.
Bachelor of Commerce, Melb., desires position
any capacity.—l2l7.
House-painter, paperhanger, etc., Sydney, wants
job town or country, own t 0015.—1202.
By Uni. graduate, N.S.W., exp. primary and
secondary teaching, position as tutor. Refs.—l23s.
Kindergarten and primary teacher, Sydney, wants
group of four or more child pupils in city, northern
suburbs preferred, or position in the country.—l24B.
To buy Crockett’s “Joan of the Sword Hand”;
also copy of verse containing lines: “‘I have a
smiling face,’ she said.” —1224.
To buy, Bairnsfather’s “Fragments from France,”
other than first four numbers. Also souvenir pro-
gramme of Ellen Terry’s Jubilee performance in
April, 1906, at Drury-lane Theatre.—l3B7.
To exchange with Sydney reader modern novels
for books dealing with biography, history, politics,
etc.—l 274.
Lady reader, out-back S.A., would like to receive
copies of unwanted magazines and books. —1330.
Copy of publication containing story by Henry
Lawson relating how his mate Cowan charmed a
snake by his violin playing. —200.
Reader wishes to exchange Bulletin weekly for
English magazine.—1366.
Words of verse “After Blenheim.” —1218.
Words of poem “The Evolution of Beauty and
Wisdom.”—l262.
Words of “The Great Australian Adjective.”
—1256.
Words of song “Wee Doch and Doris.” —1318.
Whereabouts of William Percy Rushton, who left
Adelaide four years ago for North Queensland.
—1240.
Whereabouts of descendants of George (or John)
Crick, who left Comberton (Cambridgeshire) about
60 or 70 years ago. Relation inquires.—1282.
Information Sought.
Has the Austin Motor Go. at any time
made 100 per cent, profit? —lo99.
No. No dividends were paid to ordinary
shareholders between 1918 and 1929. In 1928
there was a writing-off of capital that
reduced the value of ords. from 20s. to ss.
Since then the tide has turned; arrears
of 6 and 7 per cent. pref. share dividends
have been paid, and last year 60 per cent,
(really 15 per cent.) was paid on ords.
I wish to decorate a small dance hall with
about 80 small colored lamps, 14 -volt type.
There are six lighting points available and
the supply is 100 volts d.c. (1) How should
the lamps be connected up? (2) Would
power points be necessary? —ll7B.
(1) Connect up 28 lamps in four groups
of seven. Join up each group in series, using
twin rubber-covered flexible wirs. The four
groups should be plugged into four of the
lighting points, the other two being reserved
for ordinary lighting purposes. It is advis-
able to attach the flexible wire at intervals
to a thin cord stretched across the room,
which will take the strain off the wire. (2)
No. The total capacity of each group is
only 21 watts.
Are “double ,, stocks freaks, or can they be
produced from the seeds or cuttings of single
flowers? If so, how? —1204.
Stocks carrying double flowers never have
seed. Pollinisation by bees of the single
blooms in close proximity to the double
flowers is the factor in obtaining double seed.
If all the single-flowering plants are removed
except one the proportion of double seed will
be higher. A reliable method to secure
double-flowering plants is to select low-grow-
ing seedlings. Tall seedlings invariably carry
single blooms. Stocks are difficult to grow
from cuttings.
(1) Procedure necessary to establish a
“B”-class broadcasting .station? (2) Approxi-
mate cost of installation? (3) Cost of fur-
nishing studio? (4) Number of staff re-
quired? (5) Do “B”-class stations collect
a portion of listener's’ license fees? (6)
Approximate cost of weekly upkeep? (7)
How do “B”-class stations derwe their
revenue? (8) Can they advertise? —ll76.
(1) Apply to the P.-M.G.’s Dept. (Wire-
less Branch), Treasury Gardens, Melbourne,
stating proposed power and location and
object of station. The annual license fee
is £25 per annum. (2) 50- to 100-watt
transmitter about £5OO ; 200-watt trans-
mitter about £650, cost varying with height
and number of masts, etc. (3) Roughly
£2OO, cost including a pianola and gramo-
phone. (4) Announcer and engineer. (5)
No. (6) Can’t say without full particulars.
(7) By advertising. (8) Yes.
(1) Most suitable ivood, for woodcuts and
how are they printed? (2) Where can suit-
able linoleum for lino.-cuts be obtained and
how are lino.-cuts printed? —loss.
(1) Pear or box, and if you get either at
less than 7d. a sq. in. you’re lucky. They
can be printed on any flat press, and with-
out a press, applying to the block printer’s
ink with a small rubber roller. The paper
is then laid on the block and a folded piece
of newspaper laid over it and the whole well
rubbed either with the hand or the handle of
a tablespoon. (2) Best quality plain brown
lino, is used instead of wood. This costs
about 10s. per yard, 6ft. wide. Most of the
big furnishing houses in Australia are pre-
pared to sell remnants very cheaply. Print-
ing methods, exactly the same as for wood-
cuts. ,
(1) Is there a reciprocal tariff between
New Zealand and Australia? If so, what is
its nature and what goods are principally
affected? (2) What is the trade balance
between the two countries? —lo43.
(1) There is a reciprocal tariff agreement.
M.L. fish, cheese, bacon, ham and tallow
enter Australia at rates lower than British
preferential, and Australian hardwoods enter
the Dominion free of duty. Various other
items are affected, but they are not of much
commercial importance. (2) Considerably
in favor of Australia. Latest figures available
(10 months ended October. 1930) : M.L.
exports to Australia. £1,392,960 ; Australian
exports to M.L., £3,234,065.
What 12 writers of English would you
recommend for study as masters of the nar-
rative style? —lo9l.
The field is so wide that it is difficult to
make a choice. A plebiscite to which 17
members of The Bulletin’s literary staff
contributed (each gave 12 names), and which
w-as conducted on preferential voting prin-
ciples, resulted in the election of the follow-
ing, given in the order of the support
accorded them: Dickens, R. L. Stevenson,
Scott, Thackeray, Poe, Galsworthy, H. G.
Wells, O. Henry, Conrad, Kipling, Hardy
and Jane Austen.
(1) What is meant by the word “caucus”?
(2) Is there a Federal caucus, and also one
for each State? —1117.
(1) Its original and broadest meaning is
a meeting for the selection of candidates
for political offices or for promoting party
interests. Membership, of course, is confined
to the adherents of the party concerned. In
Australia a caucus is a gathering of the Par-
liamentarians of a party, who discuss matters
of policy. (2) Each party in the Federal
and State Parliaments occasionally holds a
caucus meeting.
Was “The Times” ( London ) suspended
during the war for publishing unauthorised
war neivs? —llll.
No. No London daily newspaper was
suspended. Lord Northcliffe came into con-
flict with the censor over reports that
appeared in the “Daily Mail,” and the weekly
journal “The Nation” was punished for evad-
ing the censorship by being barred from
France. “The Times’’ was at no time in
trouble.
What is a supercargo? —lo44.
A term in maritime law (adapted from
the Spanish “sobrecargo,” meaning “one over
or in charge of cargo”) for a person em-
ployed on board a vessel by the owners of
the cai'go to manage their trade, sell the
merchandise at the ports to which the vessel
is sailing, and buy and receive goods for
shipment homewards. He has control of
the cargo unless expressly or impliedly
limited by his contract or agreement.
Is there any record of the Maoris finding
an aboriginal race when they landed? —723.
Yes. The Morioris, whom the Maoris
exterminated or drove out. A last remnant
took refuge in the Chatham Islands. There
are many interesting relics in the Canter-
bury and Dominion Museums.
Who described Whistler as “flinging a pot
of paint in the public’s face”? Circumstances,
and full passage in which the phrase
occurred ? —1045.
In 1878, Iluskin in “Fors Clavigera”
denounced one of Whistler’s nocturnes at the
Grosvenor Gallery in the following passage:
“For Mr. Whistler’s own sake no less than
for the protection of the purchaser, Sir
Coutts Lindsay ought not to have admitted
works into the gallery in which the ill-edu-
cated conceit of the artist so nearly
approached the aspect of wilful imposture.
I have seen and heard much of Cockney impu-
dence before now, but never expected to hear
a coxcomb ask 200 guineas for flinging a pot
of paint in the public’s face.” These remarks
were the subject of a libel action; damages,
one farthing to Whistler.
Wfiat is the story of Androclus and the
lion P—1046.
Androclus was a Roman slave who lived
about the time of Tiberius. The story, told
by Aulus Gellius, relates that Androclus had
taken refuge from the cruelties of his master
in a cave in Africa. A lion entered the cave
and showed him a swollen paw, from which
Androclus extracted a large thorn. The
grateful animal subsequently recognised
Androclus when the latter had been cap-
tured and thrown to wild beasts in the
circus, and, instead of attacking him, began
to caress him.
Can you tell me anything about the sun-
bird, s<iid to inhabit North Queensland? Is
it related to the sunbirds found in' other
tropical countries? —1015.
Sunbirds are found throughout Africa
and tropical Asia, and in habits and the bril-
liancy of their plumage vie with the hum-
ming birds of America, to which they have
a resemblance. The single species found in
Australia occurs only in North Queens-
land, extending thence through the Papuan
islands and Moluccas to Celebes. The male
is yellowish-green above, with a metallic-blue
patch on the throat, and a bright yellow
breast; in the female both throat and breast
are yellow. Like other members of the
family, this species feeds on insects and honey,
extracting the latter from flowers with its
long curved bill. The nest is hung from the
under-surface of a branch, or from the edge
of a verandah or window-frame. It is com-
posed of vegetable hairs from the stems of
palms, lined with vegetable down and soft
bark fibre, with an entrance at tlie side.
The eggs are greenish-grey, mottled with
brown.
Do the Americans hold the record for the
fastest long-distance train service (sched-
uled) in the world? —ll33.
No. The London-Bristol time-table allows
lhr. 24min. for 118 miles, an average of
844 m.p.h. Probably the fastest long-distance
service in the TJ.S.A. is the New York-
Chicago—96o miles in 15hr. 56min. —an
average of a little over 60 m.p.h.
Exact wording of the questions submitted
to the people of Australia in the two con-
scription referenda? —1135.
First referendum (October 28, 1916) :
“Are you in favor of the Government having,
in this grave emergency, the same compul-
sory powers over citizens in regard to requir-
ing their military service, for the term of
this war, outside the Commonwealth, as it
now has in regard to military service within
the Commonwealth?” Second referendum
(December 20, 1917) : “Are you in favor of
the proposal of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for reinforcing the Australian Imperial
Force oversea?” - The proposal was that,
while voluntary enlistment was to continue,
compulsory reinforcements should be called
up by ballot to make the total reinforcements
up to 7000 per month.
What is “jactitation” ? —llBB.
It is a term in English law, derived from
the Latin jactitare (to throw out publicly).
A suit for jactitation of marriage is the
remedy for a false allegation by a party that
he or she is married to the other. Such suits
are very rare.
A recent Australian poem mentions
“gaily-colored demoiselles darting to and
fro in coral gardens.” What are these
demoiselles — fish, insects, or French mer-
maids?—ll67.
They are common tropic reef fish, tiny and
vividly colored—blue and orange, black and
white or opalescent green.
(1) To what height must an aeroplane
ascend over Melbourne to enable an observer
to see Tasmania? (2) lam standing on
the main-royal yard of a ship, 150 feet above
seas. I make out the hull of a large vessel
just on the horizon. How far off is it? —
1265.
(1) 75,000 feet at least. That’s nearly
four times as high as any ’plane has flown.
(21 Approximately 12 miles.
I am building a four-valve battery-operated
receiver. (1) Is a switch necessary in the
HT lead as well as in the filament circuit?
(2) I am using six-volt valves throughout ex-
cepting in the first stage, which employs a
PMI4. What resistance will I require in
the filament circuit of this valve? (3) What
voltage should I apply to the screen grid?
(4) Would a power valve be suitable for
the last stage? —llB3.
(1) No; with the filament switch off no
lIT current can flow through the valves.
(2) 25 to 26 ohms. (3) A positive poten-
tial of 75 volts. (4) A semi-power valve tak-
ing about 8 m/amps plate current would be
more suitable for a battery-operated set,
such as the P6lO with 7 volts bias and 120
volts H.T. This will result in a substan-
tial increase in the life of the battery.
(1) For what crimes were the Dorsetshire
laborers transported to Australia? Where can
I find references by (2) British and (3)
Australian historians to their case? —l2l3.
(1) They were accused of forming trade-
unions with the purpose of preventing far-
mers from lowering wages from 10s. to 7s. a
week, and sent to Botany Bay in 1834 as
seditious persons. (2) Webb’s “Trade
Unionism,,” Walpole’s “History of England,”
E'awcett’s “Molesworth,” Hammond’s “Town
Laborer” and “Village Laborer.” (3) See
article by Professor G. A. Wood in “Jour-
nal and Proceedings” of the Royal Austra-
lian Historical Society, Vol. VIII, Part 4, and
brief reference in the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia.” The Mitchell Library, Sydney,
could supply further references.
For the last two years the flowers, when
white, have fallen off my Christmas bush and
the foliage also withered. The shrub is
grown in a Sydney suburban garden. What
should I do? —1207.
Too liberal treatment of this bush shrub
is probably the cause of the trouble. It
requires open space and objects to rich
garden mixtures. Chemical fertilisers and
fresh manures must be avoided, and watering
should be sparse. Rotted bush-leaves are the
natural food for this plant. A drastic
method when the shrub is in a bad state is
to burn off the foliage with lighted folded
paper. Fresh wood should show in about
four to six weeks.
Brief Answers.
W.G.S.: You will have to pay duty before
proceeding; submit agreement to a solicitor. Salary
over £2 a week can be garnisheed... .G.N.J.: (1)
Price of tung oil fluctuates according to demand;
approximately £5O per ton c.i.f. and e. Sydney.
(2) Establishment of plantations in Australia is
worth considering. (3) Impossible to prophesy.
Communicate with Curator Technological Museum,
Sydney... .S.W.S.: (1) Cast-iron pistons would be
satisfactory, but would reduce the maximum speed.
(2) Not advisable to increase compression ratio by
increasing height of pistons. Only sound way in
your case is by using a dome-type piston. (3)
Balloon tyres would give more comfort, and in sandy
country there should be improved performance, due
to the greater width of tyre. If a normal section,
say, 31in. x 5.5 in., were used, there should be no
difficulty with steering... .R.W.P.: (1) and (2)
Trustee can retain out of proceeds of policy an
amount equal to premiums paid during two years
prior to sequestration order. (3) Absolutely pro-
tected, except that if the assured dies
within three years from date of commence-
ment of policy, creditors are entitled to amount
of premiums paid during the three years before
death... .H.G.M.: (1) Persons can, in certain cir-
cumstances, contract themselves out of Acts of
Parliament. This right is given under the N.S.W.
Moratorium Act with regard to mortgages, etc.,
executed after December 19, 1930. (2) Mortgages
and similar agreements executed before that date
are not exempt from the Act even though they con-
tain a clause purporting to contract out of the
moratorium.... W.C.: Send us a photograph of the
statue or the sculptor’s name... .T.H.L.: (1) “A
Journalist and Two Bears’’ (short stories) and a
few political pamphlets. (2) Yen.' In “The
Bulletin Story Book”. .. . J.E.R.: (1) Write to
Patents Office, Perth. (2) A firm manufacturing a
similar article might take it up... .A.W.S.: Yes,
at £1 per week.... W.A.W.: As the minimum size
of wood pipe obtainable is 3in. in diameter and
the cost about 2s. 3d. per foot at Melbourne, it
would be cheaper to use galvanised wrought-iron
piping. .. .F.S.H.: No vacancies. Apply Secretary,
Board of Health, 93 Macquarie-street, Sydney....
A.F.: (1) Yes. The notice must be signed by both
parties and an independent witness. (2) They are
not acknowledged. They are either promptly used
or rejected. (3) Cannot understand the question.
. ...K.S.: According to State Agriculture Depart-
ments, supply of Angora rabbit wool greatly exceeds
the demand. .. .D.L.It.: Lord Kitchener, at the invita-
tion of the Commonwealth Government, visited Aus-
tralia in 1909 to report on the military forces, forts
and other defence works. .. .G.L.D.: Write to Matron
G. M. Davis, Morland Nursing College, 68 Charlotte-
street, Ashfleld, Sydney.... S.R.: The best history
of French explorations and projects in Australia is
Ernest Scott’s “Terre Napoleon”... .R.L.H.: The
“Sydney Gazette” of May 4, 1806, uses the word
“bushrangers,” but it was not until some years
later that the name was applied to bandits. For
years it was used as a generic term for all men
who lived in and roved in the bush... .D. 1.:
Wollongong is a N.S.W. South Coast seaport about
51 miles from Sydney. It is the centre of a
large coalmining and dairying district. Population,
8000. . . .S.T.: You could insert an advt. in the
“Border Morning Mail,” published at Albury, or ask
the police at that town to make inquiries for y0u....
L. : Boys under 15 should use only an 81b. shot;
those between the ages of 15 and 18 a 121 b. shot;
and older lads the full-weight implement after they
have acquired style and developed their strength.
It is impossible for a boy to master the technique
if he attempts to manipulate a weight beyond his
powers... .P.M.: (1) Write to E. C. Griffith, Royal
Motor Yacht Club, 77 Liverpool-street, Sydney. (2)
Write to Dymocks or Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
for catalogue.... M. A. A.: The discoverer of vaccina-
tion was Edward Jenner, an English physician. His
investigation of the subject dated from about 1775,
and five years elapsed before he succeeded in clearing
away the difficulties by which the problem was sur-
rounded .... C.A.D.: Repatriation Commission advises
that British pensioners in Australia are not entitled
to exchange advantages on pensions paid in Australia.
. ...H.H.: The weight of a new w’heel on a Yic.
railway 16-ton truck is 8181 b.; when it wears
down to 5981 b. it is not discarded, but is placed
on an 11-ton truck. A new wheel on an 11-ton truck
weighs 5981 b., and it is condemned when it is
reduced to 5441 b G. J.L.: The Rev. K. D. Smythe
was one of four ministers who arrived in Sydney
with Dr. John Dunmore Lang, in 1831. He was
inducted to Bathurst in 1835, and remained there
until 1854, when he returned to Scotland; he died
there in 1863. Further particulars might possibly
be secured from the Mitchell Library, Sydney....
M. : Sixty-six shillings are' coined out of one
pound troy of standard silver. The silver required
to produce £3 6s. worth of coin cost, at the
average 1929 London market price of 2s. id. per
ounce, approximately £1 4s. 6d A.F.C.: In
addition to requirements as to sound health, good
character and possession of valid passports, each
alien immigrant must possess at least £4O, unless
he holds a landing permit issued by the Depart-
ment of Home Affairs as a result of application
having been made on his behalf by a relative or
friend in Australia who has guaranteed maintenance.
. ...C.8.: See Robinson’s “Elements of Practical
Distillation” (165.), and Wright’s “Practical Hand-
book on Distillation” (165.), Dymocks. . .. J.E.D.: If it
really is a first edition, it is worth about £2 10s.,
but you’ll find it hard to find a buyer in Australia.
. ...A.W.L.: We are forbidden by law to give par-
ticulars of sw’eeps outside the State... .F.T.G.: Get
free pamphlet, “Poisoning Green Timber with
Sodium Arsenite,” from N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment. .. .M.P.: You are not bound by the option
if it was inserted after you executed the lease, and
without your knowledge.... G.C.: Yes, an action
must have been commenced before Novefnber 26,
1930... .A.J.W.: Yes, and be made bankrupt a
second time. .. .W.H.P.: (1) N.S.W. Moratorium
Act does not affect you. You can be sued for the
amount of the p.n. and made bankrupt. (2) and
(3) N0....M.T.: Full particulars can be obtained
from the Secretary, Solicitors Admission Board,
Supreme Court, Sydney. It is necessary to matri-
culate. Prospects are not bright at present....
E.G.D.: Klipspringer is the Boer name of a small
African mountain antelope, ranging from the Cape
through East Africa to Somaliland and Abyssinia,
and characterised by its blunt, rounded hoofs and
gold-spangled coloring N.J.: Get in touch with
W. W. Thorpe, Australian Museum, Sydney, Sec.
Anthropological Society of N.S.W F.R.: (1) It
was an attempt to balance two economic factors —
(a) wages paid to the workers in protected indus-
tries, ( b ) the price charged for the product. (2)
The vital sections were declared ultra vires by the
High Court. .. .C.V.R.: Walther died in 1230, and
Hans Sachs was born in 1494. Both were celebrated
poets. Wagner in “Der Meistersinger” makes them
contemporaries, but composers of opera seldom worry
much about historical facts. ..-A.A.F.: Cull and
Sons, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, can supply an
adhesive M.M.1.: He draws only one salary, that
of Premier.... (Many others mailed.)


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mt. Buffalo National
Park—Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes—these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a practice.
As yet he docs not understand the
people very 'well, and his difficulties
are increased by the local matron, a
good woman but incompetent, and by
the fretfulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. He takes consolation
from the thought that he will not stay
there very long.
Chapter II ( Continued ).
THE sight of the child and the dog once
more quiescent on the floor restored
finally Dr. Gherardi’s equanimity. Soft
with love and fortified, he made his way to
the bedroom in search of his wife. The
room was dark and still. The faint light
coming from the hall through the opened
door showed him her huddled figure, a
black blot on the white bed. She made no
sound.
He crossed the room softly and sat down
on the bed; then after a moment, as she
gave no recognition of his presence, he
gathered her into his arms. A convulsive
shudder shook her, then she grew rigid
against his breast.
“Don’t cry,” he said soothingly, “don’t
be so unhappy. Try to have courage for
a little while. We will be able to go home
soon.” He stroked the hair back from her
forehead, disturbed the tears which trembled
on her lashes. He realised wearily the hope-
lessness of trying to comfort her. She had
lost faith, and no words of his could win
her. But he persisted.
“Do you know,” he said with forced
brightness, “I have saved 5000 lira? You
know that, don’t you? Soon we will have
enough to return, and I will get the pardon.
If I have money, everything will be splen-
did. We will return triumphant! I can
pay those sharks of lawyers and they will
arrange a pardon for me. But what can
we do without money? You understand?
We might have to wait a long while.”
She spoke then, her voice sullen, muffled
against his breast.
“You had it a year ago! You had enough
money to take us home. You are a fool!”
Her sullenness changed to anger. She moved
away from him. “What have we got for
our five years in Sydney? Nothing! All
our effort a.nd saving and waiting.... gone!
I helped you. I did not complain. Tell
me, did I complain?”
In answer he tried to take her hand but
she pushed him away resentfully.
“No! I did not complain. And then,
the money that you got from our tor-
ments, what did you do with it? Flung it
away, took it from your pocket and threw
it away. Fool! Goldmines! My God!” she
laughed bitterly, with tears behind her
laugh. “You didn’t tell me. Oh no! You
wouldn’t tell me. I had given nothing to
the making of that money! Nothing! Only
my life, my hopes as a singer. Five years
while the music died in me! Can it live
here? Tell me, can it live? Did I
not insist that we always keep the money
iii the bank? No. You must give it away!
For the goldmine! Pouf!”
Weariness seemed to press upon his whole
body like a rod of iron. Go on! Say it
again! Say it a million times, Teresa, over
and over!
“We have talked so much about this. I
made a mistake. A big mistake. But I
thought I was doing a good thing. It
appeared that our money would be trebled
in a few months. I was so sure, Teresa,
that I was acting wisely.” He fell silent.
Her grieved voice broke into his thoughts.
“Even if you had stayed in Sydney, things
would not have been so bad. That, at least,
is the pretence of a city. I had a few
friends. But no. You must rush away
into this bush. You must crawl into this
hole in the ground, across the mountains,
here where they play music on the tin-
can”. ...
“Don’t be silly,” Leo said without ran-
cor. “We have discussed this so many
times. You know that it takes twice as
long to make money in the city. After five
years I was doing very little. I had no
hospital. I could not get one. You under-
stood this. You agreed that it was better
to come to a small town and make money
quickly.” He hardly cared now whether
he quieted her or not.
He struggled with his indifference and
achieved sufficient to provoke a further
effort to comfort her.
“We will not have to wait much longer
now. This little town that you so despise
has been good to us. I am making money
fast. Did you know I wrote to Enrico
yesterday? No? Well I did. And I told
him, what do you think? That we would
be coming home in another year or two
perhaps. It seemed such a little time that
I was able to tell him all our plans. How
we proposed to remain in Switzerland while
he and my good friends made it safe for
me to go home. Home, little Teresa.!
TVdogna! Milan! You will go to La Scala
again. You will hear such music. And you
will laugh with your friends at the Conser-
vatorium about the music of the tin-can,
eh?”
But underneath the surface enthusiasm
ran the heavy, dark stream of his depression.
“Why do you talk like this?” Teresa said
heavily after a time. “Don’t you know
that it is too late? I am too old. I will
never be a singer. It is too late. Last
year, perhaps, with a lot of work I might
have still done something. But in another
two years”....
Suddenly she began to sob again, racking
tearing sobs.
It was too much.
“Enough, Teresa! I cannot bear any
more! Every day, every night, this lament!
I will cut my throat if you continue. Are
you a fiend that you wish to torture me
incessantly! ”
Violently he thrust her away from him
and, rising, commenced to thump up and
down, up and down the narrow space be-
tween the bed and the wardrobe which was
against one side of the wall.
He halted suddenly. “Teresa,” he said,
and now his voice was harsh, unintimate—
“Teresa, you have borne enough. I have
borne enough. We will put an end to all
this. There are two hundred pounds in
the bank. Very well then. You will take
that money and you and Dino will return
to Italy. There is no reason why you should
not return. That money will keep you for
a time and I will send you more regularly,
as much as I am able. It will not be a
lot, but it will be enough. You will con-
tinue your studies at the Conservatorium.
You will be among your friends and you wili
have Dino. I will remain here. It will
take me perhaps a year or two longer to
get, the money necessary, but then I, too,
will return. And now enough for to-night.
Let your mind be at rest. To-morrow we
will make plans.”
Her sobs had ceased abruptly when he
had. begun to speak. Even when he finished
speaking she made no sound. One could
not have told from her still, silent figure if
she had heard him.
“Well,” Leo said impatiently, approaching
the bed and looking down at her, “what do
you say, Teresa?”
Then at last she moved. She twisted and
jerked herself into a position half kneeling,
half sitting, and dragging at him. arms,
shoulders, then head, cradled his face in
her hands, peering at him intensely with her
sorrowful dark eyes, brilliant with tears
beneath the swollen lids. Her olive face
was streaked and puffed from crying. Her
black hair had come uncoiled and straggled
across her shoulder.
“Leo,” she said huskily, “you love me
still? Has this accursed country taken your
love from me as it has taken everything?
You want me to go? Tell me!” The last
words were a gasp.
“Don’t let us talk like this, Teresa,” he
said, his voice flat and toneless. He was
fatigued, in body a.nd mind. The thought
of a further scene was unendurable. “It
is foolish and cannot help in any way. If
you choose to take my sacrifice as an eva-
sion of responsibility, a proof that I do not
want you with me well, I cannot help
that.”
That desperate, tear-streaked face so near
to his own was beginning to unnerve him.
He withdrew from the tight embrace and
began to walk towards the door.
In a sudden access of frenzy she hurled
herself after him, caught him with arms
made strong by desperation. “Leo! Leo!
It is you who are stupid! You cannot
understand. For myself I loathe this exile.
But I loathe it for you, too. I know you
are unhappy, but not unhappy enough to
make you go away. And it must be through
me you will go. If I were to become con-
tented, we would be here all our lives.
Don’t you understand? I will not let you
be a traitor! I will not let you! Do you
hear? Your brilliant gifts devoted to a
case of the measles, to midwifery. Ah, you
smile! But I know your smile very well
and I can see a little fear in the corners of
it. Your eyes do not smile. Well, I will
take you away from here-, I your wife,
Teresa! You understand. I will not let
you be a traitor. Italy needs you! Your
people need you. Have you forgotten it?”
Hastily she ran across to the bureau and
from a drawer dragged an armful of papers
which she tumbled at his feet. “Here!
These came to-da.y, a letter for you and
for me. Read! Read them! See if they
can make you remember what you seemed
pleased to forget!”
Aflame at last, he grasped her roughly
by the arms.
“Enough! I have not forgotten! I have
been thinking all day. Do you think I am
happy, content? You don’t know. But
what can I do? I must work. I can’t sit
and let memories feed upon me. For the
present I must pretend to myself that I’m
content or nothing would be done. Wait!
Wait! Have patience. I am doing what
I can.”
Her voice when she spoke again had lost
its frenzy. The fire in passing from her
to him seemed to have taken with it all
her vitality. Her pale face showed tired,
exhausted.
“Well, that is good. We will talk no more
of my going away. I will never go without
you. And I will try to rid myself of this
terrible depression. But I do not submit.
I will never submit. I will never let you
become content.”
For a while silence hung heavy, shrouding
the room. A faint wind found its way
through the open window and the candle
flame flickered, almost died, then grew strong
and steady again.
Teresa., going across to the washstand,
poured water into the basin and bathed her
face. Then she coiled and fastened her hair.
“See, I am better now,” she said, coming
across to Leo, who sat, a hand pressing
into the bed on either side of him, staring
unseeing at the shadow-streaked wall. “For-
give me, my dear.” With compelling arms
she urged him to his feet. “Now we will
forget for to-night. It is supper time.”
“Yes, let us eat, drink and be merry....
for to-morrow we die!” said Leo in English,
springing up with forced heartiness and
achieving a laugh.
“Ah, no, no!” said Teresa with affected
shuddering. “We do not die; we live to-
morrow, my dear!” Her eyes regarding him
were dark with love and pride; but even
while she smiled, reciprocating ’his gaiety,
a faint tinge of fear shadowed her face.
“Promise me, my dear Leo, that you will
guard that money. You will keep it safe
in the bank? Promise! No more gold-
mines. You will ask me this time if you
should want to throw it away. Your pro-
mise!”
In mock terror, brushing aside her threat-
ening finger, he promised and they went
together into the lamplit dining-room.
Chapter 111.
(1)
For a few days Teresa tried to live up
to the spirit of her bargain. Contact with
the townspeople wa's necessarily more diffi-
cult for her than for Leo. Through his
work he was compelled to make an acquaint-
ance with, contrive an understanding of,
the people amongst whom he lived. In the
morning there were the hospital and his
round of visits; in the afternoon, and too
often during the night as well, patients.
In his work, more than in any other work,
superficialities of tongue and custom were
swept away and the fundamentals of human
feeling were exposed. The language of
pain, of fear, of defeat, of discouragement
and of hope was one that all men could
speak and understand.
But for Teresa the contact point was in
superficialities. In social activities alone lay
her chance of developing knowledge, and in
such a sphere a whole life could be spent
without the lesson being learned.
The five years in Sydney had been
possible to her as a gaol sentence would
be possible to a prisoner content to dis-
regard the present, who lived only for the
day of his release. She had made little
effort to understand her fellow creatures or
join in their life, but had searched out
the Italians and confined her acquaintance
to them. The English tongue she had
learned haphazardly. Any organised study
seemed to her a concession to permanency,
and Leo’s suggestion that when alone they
should speak English she obstinately re-
fused. If he spoke English she answered
him in Italian. If he persisted, she became
angered, then sullen, then silent, meeting
his protests with tight lips and scornful eyes.
Dino, born a few months after his
parents’ arrival in Australia, was bilingual,
despite his mother’s harsh correction when
he prattled expertly in the tongue of his
birth country. Puzzled, he would regard
her with wide eyes, bewildered by her
voluble denunciation when he had tumbled
out an eager tale of some doing of the day.
She had not wanted him to go to school.
But Leo, after their arrival in Banton, had
insisted, not because of the literal educa-
tion, but because he wanted companionship
for the boy, companionship other than that
of Teresa. With a sinking heart he had
realised the change in his wife. He remem-
bered with a pang of regret those few
weeks before the financial disaster which
had swept away most of his savings. She
had been again the vital, glowing creature
he had married. On the night when he had
told her that he had lost their money in
foolish speculation, she had seemed to die
in his arms. The resurrected woman was
a strange and sometimes frightening crea-
ture. The old resignation had disappeared
and in its place was active hate and revolt.
A bad atmosphere, Leo thought, for the
boy, who seemed to sense this turbulence
in the adored being, his mother. He was
oversensitive, highly nervous and impres-
sionable. Responsive to the atmosphere,
he had begun during these last months to
exhibit uncontrollable rages, inexplicable
abandonment to inexplicable griefs.
His baby nature, striving for balanced
growth, reacted immediately to the influence
of school discipline and companionship.
(2)
He came running home from school,
thumping round the verandah, his boots
making a great noise on the boards.
“Mother, mother!” Teresa was in the
kitchen.
“Eh, my darling! Are you hungry?”
She broke off her song, kissed the eager,
glowing face. She never spoke English with
the child.
“I know it all now. A, B, C, D”....
“Here is your milk. You have torn the
button from your coat”....
“Listen, mother!” And he recited + o
the triumphant Z.


A Perfect gloss
m.
Rimu
and’s
Macassar Oil
A GLOSSY, healthy-
** looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
0} all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
PIRST
SOLD
1792
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the "Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The "Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane's two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—•
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W, Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
a
4^
WIN, FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
hands you a garage
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day ; double from
7/6. All meals optional in tea-
rooms or cafe at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 11/6
daily; or 70/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station
—no taxi fares for train travel-
lers. Please write for detailed
tariff card.
Teresa was not looking at him, but
through the open doorway to the blue range
of hills which melted into bluer afternoon
sky. Then remembering her resolutions
she turned again to the child and with
swift and tumbling laughter reassured him.
“That is excellent! You must teach it to
your mother, eh? Now I will say it! Ah,
bay”
“No, no!” He screamed with laughter.
“You are a silly. “A, not ah.”
She caught him to her breast hungrily,
and when she let him go tears were stream-
ing from her eyes.
“Dino, baby, recite the verse which I have
taught you, the pretty song about the
butterfly.”
He repeated, his solemn, round eyes fixed
on her:
“La vispa Teresa,
Aveva tra Verbetta
A volo sorpresa
Gentil jarfalletta”....
“Very good! You like that, eh? That is
better than ah, bay.”
Suddenly he pulled away from her re-
straining arms. Soon she could hear his
high-pitched young voice yelling for Tinker,
and saw the two, boy and dog, disappearing
round the comer of the stable.
Left alone she stood staring at the hills,
her breast rising and falling violently. Then
emotion subsided, and, after a few minutes,
as if recollecting something distasteful, she
turned back to the business which had
occupied her when Dino made his eager
appearance. In a little basket she had
already laid some cakes and pastries. These
she now covered with a white cloth. She
went into the bedroom, washed the traces
of tears from her eyes, and when she was
dressed, her hat tied on with a voluminous
veil, she stood for a long time looking at
herself in the full-length mirror. She was
only twenty-eight on that July day, but
she looked more than her age and knew
she looked it as she drooped in front of
the mirror.
On the wall above the dressing-table she
had hung a photograph of herself and her
fellow-students taken in her first year at the
Bologna Conservatorium of Music. With
pain and love which threatened to shatter
her heart she scanned those laughing,
familiar faces, finding none more gay than
her own, none more instinct with hope and
youth and love of life.
“Oh, Blessed Mother of God, help me,”
she muttered through stiff, pale lips. “Help
me to find myself and my life again.” Her
little prayer made a murmur in the room,
was lost as if it had never been and would
never evoke an answer. She found that
she could no longer image those girls com-
pletely, as if they in the next room were
waiting to talk with her, to laugh with
her. She heard the sound of a horse gallop-
ing down the road, a boy’s cry, the indis-
tinct twitter of birds. The present rushed
in on her and she knew the full extent of
her loneliness.
Hastily she went out to the kitchen and
gathered up her basket of pastries, then
hesitantly replaced it on the table. She
was going to do what Leo wished her to
do—try to be happy in the lives of these
people around her. But it was very hard.
He could not know how hard it was. They
would welcome her and be kind, Leo had
said. Well, that was right. Had they
not come, many of them, to visit her, and
drink tea and eat cakes? Yes, they were
very kind. But you could not understand
them. You had nothing to talk to them
about. Nothing! When they spoke to one
another they spoke in such a way. And
when they spoke to you, it was different.
Well, you were the interloper. They didn’t
want you, didn’t need you. You wanted
them.
Well, go then down to the tennis court.
Don’t stand twisting your hands together
and looking about, like a criminal, search-
ing for some place in which to hide. Pick
up your basket and bring down the cakes
like every other good lady and have tea
on the tennis court. They had asked you to
come. Most certainly they had asked you.
Mrs. Simpson particularly had asked you
several times. You could sit and talk with
her. Don’t mind if she speaks to you as
if she were talking to a deaf person. That
is only her way, the way they all speak to
you. Well, go on then.... Mother of
God!
The court was on a corner of the street,
and she had to traverse three of its sides
before she came to the gate. There was
a crowd on the court that, day. It was
Wednesday afternoon, and the stores and
offices were closed.
Teresa, passing round the, wire-netting
was like some dark, ruffled little
bird seeking admittance to this cage of gay,
brightly-plumed creatures. A grim little
smile twisted her pale lips. “I can find
my way in here,” she thought bitterly.
“But even when I pass through I will be
still outside. I can never find my way
into their minds.”
One of the brightly-chatting group of
women, glancing up, saw r her as she turned
the corner to pass down the second side
of the court. The chatter stopped, and
eyes were focussed on the dark little figure
who plodded on with down-bent head.
Julia Simpson, the wife of the manager
of the Commercial Bank, completed the
business of fastening her tennis shoes with
due regard for modesty. “I asked her, my
dears,” she said, her round, blue eyes plead-
ing in their childish way for sympathy. “I
feel so sorry for the poor thing. She seems
quite nice. You’ve called on her, haven’t
you, Elsie?”
Elsie made a slight move of distaste.
“Yes, I called on her. But I can’t say I
like her very much. She’s got an unfor-
tunate manner, don’t you think? She’d pro-
bably be quite nice if you got to know
her.”
Julia glanced with raised eyebrows at
Elsie. “Now do behave,” she said quickly.
“Here she is.”
Eyes, eyes, a hundred, a thousand eyes,
it seemed, all strange. Eyes that were like
windows with the blinds drawn. Her hand
was clutched round the handle of the
basket so tightly that the reed pressed
painfully into her palm.
Julia, with smiling mouth and out-
stretched hands, came to meet her. “I’m
so glad you were able to come, Mrs.
Gherardi. Why didn’t you bring the
doctor along? I suppose he was too busy,
poor man!”
The tinkle of laughter with which she
ended most of her remarks, grave and gay,
provoked a mechanical smile from Teresa.
“Yes. ’E was very busy.”
“Come along and I’ll introduce you.
You know most of us, but there are some
country people in to-day that I think you’d
like to meet. A Mrs. Robinson—have you
met her? Her sister is travelling in Italy.
She might be able to give you some news
of your native land.”
“I brought de passtry for tea,” said
Teresa at this point, offering her basket.
Julia, thus interrupted, was confused for
a moment. She had been rather pleased
with herself, anticipating the excitement of
the other at mention of her country. These
foreigners were so quaint, Julia considered.
Just like children. Old Mr. Pitorelli used
to grow quite hysterical if he even heard
the word “Italy.” But this Mrs. Gherardi
seemed different. Probably foreigners were
different from each other, had different
natures, though they did all seem the same,
so quaint and just like children.
Julia was not unaware of her position in
the little society of the town. In a vague,
wholly delightful way she was conscious
of the town’s regard. She knew that her
husband was glad of her, that she helped
him immeasurably. It was the consensus
of opinion that Julia was so understanding,
could put at their ease imme-
diately. And so tactful. Sometimes one or
another of her friends would say to her,
“Julia, you’re w r onderful! How you can
bother being nice to the most awful people
I don’t know. You’re lucky to have such
a disposition. Even Mrs. Brelling leaves
you alone, and she simply tears the rest of
us to pieces.” Whereupon Julia would open,
her blue ejms in surprise.
“But I like old Mrs. Brelling, don’t you?
I know her tongue runs away with her,
but, my dear, if anyone’s in trouble they
can always count on her. She has the
kindest heart.”
But she was a trifle ruffled by this abrupt
thrusting of a basket into her hand and
the utter lack of response in Mrs. Gherardi.
Her pleasant sense of her own charm and
sweetness had been enhanced by the sight
of the little woman plodding round the wire
enclosure. In an instant she had visualised
herself as going forward, holding out both
hands in her impulsive, friendly way, and
presenting the guest (who would feel a
little strange, poor thing!) to Mrs. Robin-
son. Ideal Mrs. Robinson, who had a sister
travelling on the Continent and could talk
of Italy to Mrs. Gherardi, and by her con-
venient presence add to the legend of
Julia’s unfailing tact, her ability to handle
any situation and make people feel at home
immediately.
She stood holding the basket a little help-
lessly. She could hardly know that Teresa
had not heard her friendly words, but,
shut in the darkness and the deafness of
her sad soul, was calling “Caterina! Laura!
Where are you? Why are you not with
me to help me laugh as these people are
laughing! Do you remember our excur-
sions into the forest of San Michele al
Bosco? Perhaps you are there now, you
two, laughing, talking, and I, your friend,
am here, chained, chained!”
Came an echo of a laugh so faint it
was hardly distinguishable. It was Julia’s
tinkle.
“That’s too good of you. You shouldn’t
have bothered. I didn’t mean you to bring
anything, Mrs. Gherardi.”
“I fought you said d’ ladies brought cake
and tea,” said Teresa, her brown eyes fixed
unwinking on the blue ones.
“Oh, well, we do, of course. But your
very first time! We aren’t so hard on our
visitors as all that!” Tinkle, tinkle. “Why
didn’t you let me know you were coming?
I’d have called for you. You should have
brought down these lovely cakes earlier.
We’ve just finished tea.” She was peering
with affected delight at the rich, heavy
pastry. “The men would have eaten this
up, I know.”
IS o ’reply from Teresa, who was listening
with straining ears for the sound of summer
laughter in a distant forest.
Really it was rather hard, Julia thought.
Elsie was right. Mrs. Gherardi hadn’t got
a very nice manner. Very reserved and
the doctor was such a nice man it must
be rather hard on him. A doctor’s wife
should try to cultivate a nice manner she
could do so much for her husband’s prac-
tice. Any wife could do a lot for her hus-
band, no matter what his business, she
reflected further, with the slightest con-
sciousness of pride.
Well, she would mention Mrs. Robinson
again. Perhaps the poor thing hadn’t un-
derstood. She may have spoken rather
quickly.
She repeated the magic phrase, her voice
very loud, slow and distinct, and this time
there certainly was a sparkle in the brown
eyes. But a strange sparkle. You couldn’t
tell whether she was pleased or not.
Unprotesting, Teresa was led to the little
group, replied with a formal “How do you
do?” to the introductions. Someone made
room for her on a seat. For a few minutes
the atmosphere was heavy, restrained.
“Well, how are you liking Banton, Mrs.
Gherardi? Settling down?” someone asked
cheerfully. His enterprise was gratefully
considered by others less quick-minded.
“Yes, please,” said Teresa, with her prac-
tised smile. She made no effort to pursue
the subject and her interrogator retired
after venturing the remarks that they
weren’t such a bad lot, taken all round,
that it was not the town but the people in
it who mattered, and that in a place like
this you must make your own amusement
—all of which was received in complete
silence by Teresa.
A game was just ending. With much
masculine banter and more feminine laugh-
ter the four players walked off the court.
Their arrival seemed a signal. Untouched
by the presence of the new arrival, they
were able to give fresh impetus to the
machine, which recommenced its smooth
running. Soon the voices rose again, high
and laughter-filled. Teresa, sitting straight
and silent, was temporarily forgotten.
Only the indefatigable Julia remembered
the alien’s presence, and after some man-
oeuvring achieved her desire, the isolation of
Teresa and the providential Mrs. Robinson.
With the graciousness which the sense
of wealth and social importance can so
easily achieve, Stella Robinson embarked on
the seas of conversation with the wife of
Leo Gherardi. A serene, complacent woman,
she was occupied more with her own effects
than Teresa’s defects.
“I am so interested in your country, Mrs.
Gherardi!” she began in her smooth, affect-
edly weary voice. “My husband and I in-
tend to visit Italy next year if we can to
see Naples and die.” Her laugh was low,
cultivated. “Though well see Naples last,
I think. I wouldn’t like to die before I
had seen Rome and Venice. Venice must
be wonderful. My sister is simply in love
with it.”
Teresa was polite. Her eyes were almost
startlingly fixed on Mrs. Robinson’s face,
but this mention of the affections of Mrs.
Robinson’s sister provoked none of the in-
tense interest which Julia, eagerly watching,
was waiting for. There were no rhap-
sodies. as would infallibly have been evoked
from old Mr. Pitorelli. Julia, watching that
polite, strained attention, felt a sense of
defeat.
“I’ve just had some photographs sent to
me by my sister, taken in a gondola in
Venice. It must be marvellous on a moon-
light night to glide up and down the canals
in a gondola. And those men—the gondo-
liers, you call them, don’t you? It must
be too romantic. With their earrings and
their wonderful voices. I do envy you,
Mrs. Gherardi, coming from a country like
that. My friends tell me that I should
have been a foreigner. They all tell me
I look Spanish. Ridiculous, isn’t it?” Her
low laugh was answered by a short bark
from Teresa.
“I’ve been once to Venice,” she said.
“Dhose canals dhey are very dirty. D’
people t’row out d’ rubbish. I do not like
Venice very much. I come from Bologna.
All my frien’s are dere.”
Stella regarded her with slight distaste.
“You didn’t like Venice? Why, you’re the
first person I’ve ever heal’d say that! I
always think it must be the most romantic
city in the world. I think to glide up and
down the canals, with those picturesque
men”
“Romantic? Dhis word romantic?”
queried Teresa doubtfully.
Stella laughed. “Bizarre, strange, like a
fairy tale,” she said, punctuating her laugh-
ter. “The Venetians must be a most poetic
people, gliding up and down the canals in
their bright colored clothes and all the de-
lightful singing.”
“I’ve been think to tell you what it is
like, dhese gondolas,” broke in Teresa earn-
estly. “In George-stre’t you tak’ d’ tram
and go some place you want to go and get
out. You do not ride up and down. Venice
dhere is water. You ’ave a gondola in-
stead of d’ tram. D’ gondolier ’e is like—
what you call who drive d’ tram?”
“Tram-conductor? Oh, no! Surely you
can’t mean that, Mrs. Gherardi! I just
can’t believe you. Why, you should hear
the way my sister writes about Venice!
You can’t compare those romantic-looking
men with our tram-conductors. You never
hear a tram-conductor singing. Just
imagine!”
Teresa made a grimace and flung out her
hands. “Yes, dhat singing. Some, one now
an’ again, ’ave the voice nice, pretty. But
most it is very bad. Dhey do not know
music. Always I told the gondolier not to
sing. If you tell, dhey stop.”
For a while Stella struggled on, but in the
end surrendered. Gracefully she rose,
graciously she asked Teresa to come and
visit her soon, and bring the doctor, and in
her laughing, weary voice she insisted that
Teresa could not mean that she did not
like Venice.
To Julia she expressed her slight disgust.
“Absolutely no sense of beauty, my dear.
Probably of peasant origin. You know, we
can’t expect all Italians to be the same,
so cultured and poetic. It would be just
as if you went round some of the poorer
farmers here, the uneducated people, look-
ing for appreciation of things which they
couldn’t possibly understand and had prob-
ably never heard of.”
One or two further attempts were made
to draw Teresa into the conversation. A
kindly-disposed little woman, the wife of
the Church of England minister, commenced
quite animatedly what was to be a discus-
sion on the difficulty of obtaining good
servants.
“I do not bother for one,” said Teresa
bluntly, when she had grasped from the
lady’s moans and headshakings what it
was all about. “I cook nice and d’ work it
is nothing. Servant ’ere cost too much
money. In Italy you get for few francs a
mont’.”
(To be continued next weelc.)


Positions Vacant.
A WELL-ESTABLISHED AFFORESTATION COMPANY (the largest in Australia)
INVITES APPLICATIONS FROM SALESMEN who are prepared to sell on whole-
some methods. Staff positions available for experienced men with good selling
record. General Manager will shortly be touring from Adelaide
to Sydney, and is prepared to interview applicants en route.)
Address letters, giving full details of past experience (which
will be treated confidentially), to
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL FORESTS LIMITED, BOWMAN BUILDINGS,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
1
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Amanullali surprised William Kelso, who
owns and trains him, by going to the front
in the Kogarah Stakes at Moorefield on
Saturday and fairly outstaying his nine
opponents. The bookmakers thought he
would come back to the field, and even when
he was clear of it three furlongs from home,
and galloping nicely, they offered 5 to 1
against him. They could well afford to do so,
for the winner was a “skinner” for most of
them in the paddock, though one gentleman
gloomily announced that he had laid 40 to 2.
Amanullali is a three-year-old bay gelding
by the ill-fated Cragford’s sire, Eastern
Monarch, out of Citrona. He is hardly
likely to turn out another Cragford, but
will probably furnish into a useful middle-
distance horse, if not a decent stayer.
There was talk of T. C. Trautwein’s
capturing a treble with East Maitland in
the first division of the Juvenile Handicap,
Sidney George in the Flying Handicap and
old Aorangi in the Moorefield Handicap, but
Trautwein’s luck was out again—in fact, he
has found Fortune very fickle since Quino-
lc.gist’s day. East Maitland did best, but
was beaten by Ptolemy (6 to 4), a rather
taking-looking customer by Moabite —Shep-
herd Princess in Dan LeAvis’s stable; Sidney
George and Aorangi finished among the
unplaced lot. Another promising colt in
Chieftain (Caravel —Andesine) was served
up warm for the second division of the
Juvenile Handicap. McShortodds knew all
about him, and kept the price at 6 to 4.
Bartle never had occasion to move on Chief-
tain, though the runner-up, Shilina, can go
a bit —she has run half a mile in a tick over
“48” on a country course.
A serviceable filly is Sunlit Reef (Great
Barrier —Sunny Brae), who romped home
from Sweet Valais and Lucky Dane in the
first division of the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, going out at 9 to 2. The second division
was easy for another nice cut of a horse,
Calendo (2 to 1), by Crescendo —Calbrook,
who beat Frontier (also twos) pointless
when it came to real action. Calendo looks
and gallops as if a longer distance than six
furlongs would suit him. The Flying Handi-
cap was an excellent betting race—it was
2 to 1 Ticino, 5 to 1 Sidney George, 7 to 1
Promptitude, Erbie and Workman, 10’s
Style. Promptitude, capitally ridden by
Knox, prevailed in an interesting finish,
Style, Workman and Ticino following him in
that order. Ticino once defeated Phar Lap—
it was in a handicap for three- and four-
year-olds at Rosehill in the early spring of
1929 He is never likely to do it again,
but he should pick up a race presently in
his class. ....
Ridden much better by Cook than in a
corresponding race at the previous meeting
on the course, Black Douglas, backed from
sixes (in places) to fours, captured the
Moorefield Handicap in capital style. Puff
(10 to 1), the winner on the occasion men-
tioned, was a meritorious second and Philip-
pic (second to her then) third. Atrente
showed a bold front for a mile or so,
but was cut out of fourth place by Balatis,
from the pony courses. _ Leisure Hour,
who gets heaps of racing but thrives
on it and is shrewdly “placed,” wound up
the day by downing two better-backed horses,
Nolens Volens and Green Bird, in the Ilurst-
ville Mile, his closing price being eights,
although tens were bet.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Veilmond or
Tippo ; next, Calendo.
Rosehill Stakes: Killarney; next, Val-
paraiso.
Flying Handicap : Ticino ; next, Panola.
Rosehill Handicap: Gemlight or Zeeland;
next, Hustler.
Carlingford Handicap: Gemlight or Black
Douglas; next, Attar.
* * * *
Melbourne punters’ faith in Duncan was
shown when they made Pelion favorite for
the Juvenile Handicap at Epsom. The Moa-
bite colt, with “Tich” Wilson up, had run
unplaced when La Joconde, by Heroic,
scored at Williamstown on the previous
Monday, and is an unruly customer; but
Duncan’s presence in the saddle, sent him
to the head of the quotes. Alight, half-
brother to that good three-year-old Lightstead,
shared second favoritism with the Paper
Money filly Scotch Note, who had exhibited
great speed on the Caulfield tracks. Scotch
Note belongs to the Western District sports-
man W. Thompson, for whom Battleplane
and the galloway'- Cornflower won races
under big weights. She set a cracking pace
for half a mile, but Pelion hit the front at
the distance, and dead-heated with Alight,
who came home brilliantly.
Duncan captured the Epsom Plate on
Binna, the topweight. This very consistent
gelding was in a point longer demand than
Hathalie, who carries the colors of Norman
Mendes, a former bookmaker. Encounter-
ing interference in the jump-off, Hathalie
was second-last when the field strung out,
and thereafter her jockey saw the race in
full perspective. Yalgoglin (successful at
Moonee Valley a week before) and Khanoug
led until Binna gathered them in after turn-
ing for home. The unplaced division was
headed by Shady Nook, who is due for an
early success. Shady Nook was bred by
E. A. Connolly, and is a sister to Dark
Man, who visited Sydney last autumn. Her
half-brother, Polytheist, ran third to Claro
and Quintus in the 1923 Epsom.
Racing partnerships are rather common
in Melbourne. J. A. MacLeod, of the V.R.C.
committee, and C. F. Taylor pulled off the
1929 G. N. Steeplechase with Sandhurst, and
they own another timber-topper in Cellist,
by Violoncello. Epsom punters made Scuda-
long a pronounced favorite for the Brush
Steeplechase; Cellist was their second choice,
and he delighted the trainer, Harry Gabell,
by winning handily from Honorium and
Gudyoon. Keep Cellist in memory for the
next “National”! The 1930 hero, Moss-
trooper, is in training again, and figured in
the Epsom Purse. He looked healthy, but
was unmarketable.
This Epsom Purse was memorable for the
dashing victory of Ray of Hope, on whom
Lou Robertson and his friends plunged.
Neville Percival made every post a winning
one, and reached the judge seven lengths in
advance of Suogla, covering 14 miles in
time verging on the course record. Obviously
Robertson knew that he had something to
go nap on. Ray of Hope (by Treclare) was
bred in N. S. Wales by Percy Miller, and
is from Ray of Sunshine, whom Hugh Deni-
AS FAR AS HE’D GO.
ENRAGER SECOND: “W’y don’t yer wade inter ’im?”
TOWELLED-UP PUG: “Blime, ain’t ’e got me outer me depth already?”
son imported from England. The finish
would have been less one-sided if Buffline
had not been left standing when the barrier
rose.
That lovely mare Black Duchess is back
again in the hands of J. E. Smedley, who
has—temporarily, at all events —transferred
his quarters from Sydney to Melbourne.
She shortened from substantial odds to 9 to
2 for the Epsom Handicap, despite Jack
Holt having attached the “unbeatable” label
to' Elarby.. With the recently reinstated
jockey, J. O’Brien, as pilot, Black Duchess
stretched out in her old, free style, making
the pace so warm that Duncan had to bustle
Elarby to hold a decent position. When
Black Duchess shot her bolt, an outsider,
Borrodale, took charge. Elarby knocked up,
and Joe Hayward’s gelding was untroubled
to win by a length and a half from the fast-
finishing Dark Dawn, while El Rey (33 to
1) cut his stable-mate Elarby out of third
place. Originally Borrodale belonged to
Harry Masterton, nephew and heir of the
late James Paterson, who won two Caul-
field Cups with Hymettus.
His victory in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap at Epsom suggests that Knight’s Favor
(Valais —Chivalry) will be a force to reckon
with in the spring handicaps, if not before.
Backed almost off the card, he won in great
style from Mural Crown and Ermine after
many difficulties in running. Knight’s Favor
realised 1400gns. as a yearling. He has
been leased to C. T. Godby by E. A. Connolly.
* * * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Electric Handicap: St. Valor; next, Auto
Pay.
C. F. Orr Stakes: Greenline ; next, V ise
F orce.
Weights for the big Melbourne and Sydney
autumn handicaps were issued on the same
day this year, and the liandicappers have
made history of a sort by awarding Phar Lap
list. lib. in the Newmarket Handicap and
lOst. 131 b. in the Sydney Cup. Still, the
champion has only Sib. more in the Newmarket
than Greenline, and Pike considers him a
much better horse at the distance; all the
same, he is not likely to start in either race.
For the six-furlongs handicap Holdfast (9st.
41b.), Parkwood (Bst. 131 b) and Taurus
(Bst.' 121 b) are rather, attractively handi-
capped, and Brazenface is not out of it with
Bst. 41b., nor is Umbertana with Bst. 21b.
Second Wind (9st. 81b.) heads the Australian
Cup list. Carradale (Bst. 101 b.), The Dim-
mer (Bst. lib.), Royal Smile (7st. 51b.) and
In Petto (7st.) may be the best of an indif-
ferent lot. Taurus and The Dimmer look
a fair double.
For the Doncaster Cathmar may be
accounted well treated with Bst. 101 b. He
won the Epsom with 7st. 121 b. and was
placed in two subsequent races. Holdfast
(9st. 31b.), Pentheus (9st.) and Brazenface
(Bst. 51b. ) are a highly-regarded trio, and
Compodonico (7st. 101 b.) will improve. For
the Sydney Cup Jeypore (Bst. 81b.), Carra-
dale (Bst. 71b.), Crucis (Bst. 61b.) and Dal-
ston (Bst.) are sure to be specked in doubles,
and so are at least two of the three most
prominent three-year-olds, Veilmond (Bst.
31b.), Tregilla (Bst. 21b.) and Balloon King
(Bst. 21b.). This Page’s present fancy is
for Cathmar and Tregilla.
“Aintree”: The Liverpool Grand National
entries have closed with 85 nominations,
despite new regulations demanding that
runners must have been placed in a three-
mile steeplechase or have won one worth £5OO.
The Irish sweeps are blamed for the big
muster, it having been announced that there
is over £200,000 in the pool already. Entries
include Kilburk, winner of the Indian G.N.
in 1929, and Gyilovam from Czechoslovakia,
a name that should trouble the bag mer-
chants. This nag has been financed by a
national subscription, the President of the re-
public being among those to throw into the hat.
* si* * *
“Bouragi”: America, for long indifferent
to the leppin’ game, is gradually being broken
into .steeplechasing. The end of the last
American season saw the country’s first
Grand National run at Gallatin, in Texas,
over a course built as closely as possible to
resemble the famous convincing ground at
Liverpool. The race is the outcome of a
movement by a coterie of American sports-
men to revive fox-hunting in the States, a
sport once much affected by George Wash-
ington but nowadays only pursued in the
vicinity of New York. Harking back to
the Texas race, this was won by Mrs. Steven-
son, of N’Yark, with a nag named Alligator.
Three English horses started, the best of
the trio being Kilbairn, which has won a
lot of good races in England, and was ninth
in last year’s Liverpool G.N.
❖ * s{:
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Woonoona welterweight Rus Crit-
cher (10.14), revealing remarkable improve-
ment, outpointed Tommy Fielding (10.0) at
Leichhardt. Fielding, like most Americans,
fights with apparent disdain for punishment,
and his reckless aggression seemed likely
to stop Critcher. Rus’s speedier punching
proved troublesome, though ; the Yankee was
hit so hard and often that he did not know
his whereabouts as the eleventh ended, but
he came back to outfight the other fellow m
the closing rounds. The decision was disputed,
but Critclier’s cleverer work won. It was
Fielding’s first defeat in Australia.
Now and again Newcastle Jimmy Pearce
has displayed such form that admirers have
pronounced him Australia’s best middle-
weight. His showing on other occasions has
been tenth-rate. The Novocastrian had an
off night on Saturday, when he met
Belgian Walter Libert at the Sydney
Stadium; plenty of opportunities to put
over a sleep-producer were allowed to pass
by Pearce, and Libert lasted longer than
even staunch friends anticipated. The im-
portation has evidently left at home what-
ever boxing ability he possessed. Pearce
stopped him in 12 rounds.
# % * *
Jack H'aines is out of hospital and talking
fight again. The ex-champion plans to meet
Bundren, Carroll and Palmer. He wouid
be well advised to take a long spell.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: Having deprived him of his
so-called world’s title, the American boxing
authorities have graciously decided to give
German Max Schmeling a chance to win it
back again. Schmeling has been signed up
with Stribling, on the understanding that
the winner will meet Camera. Unless
Stribling is a wreck, he should get the better
of the German. That being so his meeting
with Camera should be interesting, for on
two previous occasions he laced the huge
Italian soundly.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indies got their chance in Mel-
bourne when Victoria was compelled to put
a second eleven into the field against the
tourists. The Victorians tried six, bowlers,
but none of them showed any quality. The
result was that the Buccaneer batsmen at
last got among the runs, and ran up the
very respectable score of 347 for the loss of
four wickets. That reliable all-rounder left-
hander Martin was again consistent with
44, run out. Roach, who opened with him,
showed form reminiscent of liis Sydney debut
and finished with an attractively-made 104
before he was stumped off Cordner, a slow
right-hander. Headley followed with 77, and
De Caires, the Dcmarara batsman, also had
a good trot wtih 71 n. 0., while Birkett ran
to 20, and skipper Grant finished the day
23 n.o. Cordner got the three wickets
credited to the bowlers, each costing him
41 runs.
« $ * *
“W. G. Snort”: There was some press
sculduddery in Sydney when one of those foes
of all cricketers, the umpires, reproved the
Victorian Blackie for raising the seam of the
ball with his thumbnail. This is illegal—see
General Notes on the laws of the game—and
the umpire is supposed to report the practice
and to call for a new ball. Th% reason for
the raising process is that the lifted edge
eats into the wind more effectually, and
increases that swerve to which so many
promising bowlers have sacrificed their
cricketing careers. The practice is all too
common in all classes of cricket nowadays,
as is the keeping of resin in the trouser
pocket to enable the spin bowler to get a
tighter grip. This is not specifically for-
bidden by cricket law, but is foreign to the
spirit of the game.
* * *
“Lancaster Park”: The selection of the
14 All Black cricketers to tour Britain
this season has provided some surprises,
chief of which is the omission of Blundell,
ex-captain of Cambridge and one of the
best of the amateur all-rounders in England
a season or so ago. T. C. Lowry is again
included, and will skipper the team. Many
of the previous side have been given a
trip, including Blunt, Mills, Dempster, bowler
Merritt and ’keeper James. A newie is
Allcott, a medium left-hand spin bowler from
Auckland. Cromb, of Canterbury, will be the
fast bowler, wdiile H. G. Vivian, an Auck-
lander, is a good free batsman. Weir is
another capable batsman, though on the slow
side, as is J. L. Kerr. Matheson is another
young batsman of quality. The team on the
whole is young, and with the experience
gained by some of the players on the last
tour should do well.
(Continued on next page.)
The Crawford stable had a good spin in
the N.S.W. tennis championships at Sydney.
At the start of the singles it looked as
if John was going to put up one of his
“what’s the use?” performances against Hop-
man, but livening up as things went against
him he won a good four-set go by 3 to 1.
With Hopman, the champion also took the
doubles from Willard and D. Thompson,
again by 3 sets to 1. Mrs. Crawford beat Miss
Valkenburg in the women’s singles in two
straight sets, which, however, were fiercely
contested. Then, with Mrs. Cozens, the
lady, who has improved out of sight under
her husband’s coaching, won the women s
doubles from Misses Valkenburg and Dingle.
* * * *
The blue ribbon of Australian open-boat
sailing, the 18-footer championship, held
this year on Sydney Harbor, was won by
Arawatta. sailed by C. Hayes, from a field
of 12. The solitary Queensland defender,
Marjorie, turned out with a borrowed suit
of sails, and could do no better than sixth.
The winner, a snub-nosed craft, came home
on the bit by 3min. 6sec. from the second
boat, H. C. Press 11., in a brisk nor’-easter.


Bank Something Every Week
S'JCCESS in saving is not sudden, it is a
matter of persistent effort . . . regular deposits
week by week. . . . The habit of saving soon
becomes easy . . . small amounts steadily
accumulate. . . .
Gradually you become financially secure . . .
able to make purchases without running into
debt . . to buy useful comforts for the home . .
to-clothe yourself and family better . . to meet
emergencies and to grasp opportunities.
The effort is worth while. Start to save NOW!
Interest on Savings Accounts
4% up to £l,OOO.
Fixed Deposits of any amount
received at interest up to 5-4%.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
192 Branches; 644 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices .
Gert;"\ hnd no idea Brown plated
CRICKET
Bert: "He doesn't!'
diERT:' 1 But I HEARD you &5K Mi«y\ It
WHAT TIME HE DREW STUIV|PS.
Bert:”I w&s making, an appointment.
He!s a dentist "
The Ins and Outs
The N.S.W.-Victoria Sheffield match in
Sydney ended rather ingloriously for the
home side, which made a good recovery in
the second innings and reached a position
which should have secured victory. The
chance was let slip, and poor bowling,
backed by most casual fielding in the clos-
ing stages allowed the visitors to win by 122
runs on the first innings. Victoria’s first
knock was 31S in reply to 196 by N.S.W.,
the young lefthander O’Brien playing a
sound innings for 119. A solid but hard-
hitting type, he had scored 65 and 75 in his
tw T o previous Sheffield matches this season.
McCabe was the best of the home bowlers
with 4 for 46. Another great innings by Don
Bradman (220), added to an even century
from Wendel Bill, helped N.S.W. to 411,
none of the other batsmen doing much.
Blackie was on the spot again for Victoria
and ended with 5 for 101. With 296 to win
outright, Victoria never looked like getting
them, except for a brief space while Ryder
and Rigg were together. Ryder w’ent for a
free 36 and Rigg then settled down to play
for a draw. H'e was out just on time for
98, six wickets falling for 202; Hunt’s 3-38
was the best bowling average. The winners
suffered a severe loss through an injury to
a’Beckett, who dislocated the elbow of his
bowling arm while fielding, an accident that
may affect his future cricket career.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Jack Ryder’s score of 36
against N.S.W. was his fiftieth against the
Ma State. Like W. Armstrong, he has now
reached the 2000 mark against tw T o States,
N.S.W. and South Australia. Ryder has
always had a weakness for South Australian
bowling. Against N.S.W. his 50 innings have
averaged 43.8 with a highest score of 295,
but he has averaged 59.8 against the Wheat-
fielders for 40 knocks, 242 being his best
effort.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : In spite of public opinion
the. Austi'alian selectors have persisted 'in
their policy of selecting the old brigade
for the fourth Test against the West Indies
in Melbourne. There is some excuse for the
inclusion of the veteran Oxenham, who
should have been sent to* England, but why
Ironmonger, Jackson and Fairfax are being
persevered with the deuce only knows.
*■* 'l* H 5 H*
“Hotham”: Ponsford is so successful on
the Melbourne Cricket Ground that one
wonders what he is going to do to the West
Indies in the fourth Test commencing there
next week. So far he has had a rumbustious
time against the Buccaneers, heading the
averages for the three Tests played -with
136 for four innings. Don Bradman and
Kippax follow with 84 and 80 respec-
tively, while fourth place is filled by the
W.I. skipper, Grant, who has the good
figures of 54.33 for six innings (three not
outs). R. K. Oxenham heads the bowling
wfith six wickets, averaging 12.66 apiece.
Grimmett, of course, is the biggest wicket-
taker, having bagged 25 at 15 each. Francis
leads the W.I. list, having taken seven for
31.28 each.
H* Hi jj: *j:
“W. G. Snort” : When the Board of Con-
trol carpeted Bradman and fined him
£5O it was generally felt that the revered
body had made a stupid blunder. Now the
board is following up its somewhat gradual
heresy hunt by demanding from Grimmett
an explanation of his action in contributing
some articles on cricket to a South Aus-
tralian newspaper. Grimmett had been
allowed by the board to write a book on
cricket, but it is alleged that he exceeded
his privileges. The 8.0. C. was once held
in some esteem in Australia and in those
days did much to elevate the standards of
the. game. To-day it has become something
to jest about, which is all the more reason
why it. should live the cloistered life for a
while instead of coming out in- public to
make a pathetic ass of itself, as has been
its custom of late.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The opening of the N.S.W.
tennis championships saw an unusual hap-
pening. Cummings, who won the State title
last year and is rated number one on the
Queensland ranking list, was knocked out in
the first round. His conqueror was that cap-
able youth W. B. Walker, of Windsor, who
fairly played the champion off his feet. Tennis
m a curious game for in-and-out running.
Whether it is the so-called temperament, or
some peculiarity in the game itself, no one
seems to know, but the form shown is often
contrary enough to make a pony-racing
steward swoon in consternation.
* * :|: *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : It looks as if some of
the tennis stars on the other side of the
world knew something. The latest “amateur”
to ,ioin the rush for the professional ranks
is Frank Hunter, Tilden’s doubles partner in
many a hard-fought match and one of the
players rated in the world’s best half-dozen,
up to last year. When the first contingent
broke away some years ago, headed by Leng-
len, it was not long before all of them, in-
cluding the volcanic Frenchwoman, w T ere
looking for a dug-out wherein to shelter.
Even Vincent Richards, who recently cursed
professional tennis and all its works, is now
returning to his muttons. There must be
some catch in it.
*■* * #
“Hotham”: The Victorian tennis heads
have lately been much troubled with internal
dissension revolving about the everlasting
amateur-status complex. They have been
asked to give decisions on about 17 varia-
tions of the perennial question as to where
the boundary-line between amateurism and
professionalism lies. One twister, decided
the other day, asked if an amateur player
could maintain a public tennis court and take
fees for its use. Since about everyone con-
nected with tennis in Melbourne who has
been able to find a block of land big enough
for a tennis court has been busily engaged
in exploiting it, the reply took some careful
drafting.’ Judgment finally was to the
effect that it was possible to “manage” public
courts so long as the manager did not coach
and instruct and receive fees for doing so.
The case of the actual proprietor of such
a court is still giving the heads a headache.
* * *
“Maidan”: British tennis-players in India
scored a notable victory the other day in
Calcutta, when G. P. Hughes, the British
Davis Cup player, and A. M. D. Pitt, who
has also figured for India for the same event,
won the Bengal doubles championship from
Euda and Kitagawa, tlie Japanese cracks. For
some years past the Japanese have specialised
on this tournament and have won consistently
up to the present. The women’s singles
went to the Indian-born Jenny Sandison, who
justified her claim to be the best woman
player in India by winning the doubles as
well with Mrs. Simon.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino” : Australia had its first glimpse
of the mucli-discussed “new” golf ball when
Rufus Stewart gave the thing a spin
on the Kooyong links, near Adelaide, the
other day. The ex-open champion played a
round of 77, and found that under ordinary
conditions the drive was from 10 to 20 yards
shorter, but with a following wind would
probably carry as far as or farther than the
ball now in use owing to its being larger
and lighter. Approaching and putting
Stewart found harder, and generally he con-
sidered the ball put four strokes on to his
round. The American innovation is not
likely to be seen in Australia until St.
Andrews approves of it. It is still illegal
in Britain, but players likely to be visiting
America this year with international teams
are busy practising with it.
$ $ * $
“Hotham”: Harry Williams, who is
not yet 16, put the wind up his golfing elders
in the Sorrento (Vic.) annual open contest
for the Club Cup. The lad downed a hot
field, as may be seen from the fact that
Ryan, Schwarz, Edgar, Sloan Morpeth and
Ivo Whitton, all of whom have won State or
Australian titles, finished behind him in that
order. Williams’s score for the 36 holes was
148 (72-76), three better than M. J. Ryan
in second place.
* * * *
‘‘Carnoustie”: One of those problems
which are always cropping up in golf has
been puzzling some of the Queensland ex-
perts. A player following his drive found
a large brown snake coiled up alongside it.
Losing his head, he swiped at the
serpent with his iron and eliminated it from
the game. The question then arose as to
whether the stroke which' ended the snake’s
earthly career should be debited to the player,
and the argument Still rages. Personally, I
think it should. The snake was quite
obviously a loose impediment, and as such,
under Rule 12 (1), could be moved without
penalty, so there was obviously no reason for
using the club. If the player was too per-
nicketty to do the moving with his own hands
he should have employed his caddie to do so.
* .* * *
“Divot Digger” : Championship golf begins
to show up on the horizon. Queensland will
open the ball with the State open, amateur
and professional tourneys beginning on May
20. The open will be 72 holes stroke-play
open to amateurs and professionals. For the
amateur event the first eight amateurs in
the open will play off 36 holes stroke-play,
which will also be the case in the semi-finals
and finals. The Australian meeting will begin
in Sydney at Kensington on August 24, and
will include the open, amateur and profes-
sional events, with the women’s champion-
ship to follow.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: A very large section of the
golfing community will acclaim a mutineer
against convention who has been maintaining
in the English press that putting is not
golf, but rather akin to billiards, bowls or
croquet. It lias little in common with the
real golf, which consists in hitting a ball
as hard as one can with wood or iron, or
half as hard with a mashie, say. It is absurd
that a man carrying eight or nine clubs for
a round of 72 strokes should have to make
half those strokes with one club, the putter
within the physical capacity of a paralytic’
Putting is a despicable business, says the
writer, and a thing he-men should be ashamed
of. His remedy resembles one suggested in
The Bulletin some months ago—to enlarge
the hole to a diameter of six feet, and give
the real golfer his chance.
=!: * sji *
“Midiron”: American golf carries good
money. Last week saw the finish of the
Agua Caliente tournament, which, though it
is played on the Mexican side of the border,
is chiefly attended by American cracks.
Scottish professionals, attracted by the
first prize of £2OOO, have also been known
to come all the way from the Land o’ Cakes.
If any did so this time, they didn’t get
among the money, two Americans, Golden
and Von Elm, finishing first and second in
the play-off following on a tie in the final.
Each had scored 293, but in the play-off
Golden returned a card of 75 to his oppo-
nent’s 79. Walter Hagen had 29S oppo-
site his name, and Joe Kirkwood 306 —
placings not given.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: When Malcolm Campbell re-
cently stated that it was possible lie might
come on to the Maoriland beach at Ivaitaia
after all for his attempt on the world’s speed
record, some misguided enthusiast suggested
that he and “Wizard” Smith, who is to make
a similar attempt at the same place, should
add the excitement of a race against each other
to that of a spin against time. Campbell was
too far away to comment, but Smith was
emphatic that anything of the sort would
ensure disaster, since there was not room
enough on the beach for two cars of the
size and calibre of his and Malcolm’s. As
matters stand, there will be plenty of time
for Campbell to come across from America
and make the attempt before the Smith-
Harkness flier, now being put together in
Sydney, can be completed.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : One of the best of the Italian
motor-pace followers, Leopold Torrecelli, is
dead after an illness of nearly two years, his
last big race being the championship of
Italy in 1929. He began as an amateur and
professional road-rider before the war, but
gradually worked himself to the front on the
tracks, running third to Linart and Seres in
the world’s championship at Paris, his first
international race, in 1924. He had many
other successes in Europe and America, and
at one time thought of coming to Australia.
* * * *
“Sniff”: The cyclist who travels round the
world for a wager is familiar. An Ameri-
can gentleman who has announced his inten-
tion of landing on these shores has struck
a new note. He has a side-car outfit with
all mod. con., etc., and desires to find a wife
to suit him—just that and nothing more.
But he is particular. Over 6ft. 7in. high, he
seeks a partner of approximate altitude.
None being forthcoming on the other side of
the Line, his eye has turned to Australia.
The writer recommends that he be referred
by the Customs to the agents for the swiftest
tourist route to Patagonia, where everyone
is said to be tall enough to satisfy his re-
quirements. Australia is fed to the neck
with the world-touring motorist or cyclist,
no matter how ingeniously either presents
himself.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Fitzcray” : The Tourist Trophy races for
motor-cycles held on the Phillip Island course
in Victoria were a rousing success, the large
number of visitors being rewarded with some
splendid racing. This was especially the
case in the 200-mile solo race, in which
Pringle, of Victoria, the ultimate winner,
and Stuart Williams, of N.S.W., fought out
a hitter battle until the latter’s machine
failed him. Pringle rode a 499-c.c. Rudge,
and his time was 3hr. 4min. 5 l-ssec., an
average of 64 m.p.h. The side-car event
was taken by J. Wassail, on a 588-c.c. Nor-
ton, his time for the 100 miles being llir.
46min. 12 3-ssec.
Miscellaneous
“Hotliam”: Frantic enthusiasm which at
times threatened to terminate in a “regret-
table incident” or two marked the final
struggle for the single bowls championship
of Victoria in Melbourne. Though the
mounted police were not as much in evidence
as they are at local football matches,
they were no doubt posted in a strategic posi-
tion in case of need. The winner, S. W. Phil-
lips, of Caulfield Park, reached his 21
points in 19 heads, his opponent, W. Payne,
of Moonee Ponds, scoring only 6. Phillips
was a Westralian player of note until re-
cently.
* * * *
“Topping Lift”: Vanessa’s win in the
Sayonara Cup at Sydney was the fourth in
succession for a N.S.W. craft, and the
eleventh in heats for her skipper Charles Tre-
beck. The race was first sailed in 1904, when
V ictoria took the pot, the N.S.W. entry being
Bona, still doing good service and winning
races. Vanessa has been sold to Vic., the pur-
chaser being J. A. Linacre, of the Royal
Brighton Yacht Club. Designed by the famous
British firm of Fife, and built by Hayes and
Sons, of Sydney, she is a wonderfully
weatherly boat for her size (30ft. 7sin. in
waterline), her work to windward in a stiff
breeze and sea being a notable characteristic.
“Semaphore”: Not to be outdone by its
sister States, South Australia staged its
first ocean yacht race the other day, the
Royal Yacht Squadron supervising it. The
run was worth while, too, being over a tri-
angle one of the points of which was at
Ivingscote, Kangaroo Island. The distance
was 150 miles —different from the “ocean”
races occupying an afternoon held in some
other yachting centres. The winner was
Norman Ford’s Anyndali, a 28-footer, with
Nautilus and Stormy Petrel, each 56ft. over
all, second and third. Ford’s yacht came in
third, but her hours’ time allowance
brought her home and dried. The weather
was dirty, two other competitors retiring.
iji
“Booroodabin”: In the second series of
Australian swimming championships held in
Brisbane, N.S.W. succeeded in taking the
inter-State Kieran Shield from the Queens-
land holders. As in the first series in Syd-
ney, many times went by the board, both men
and women lowering records. The outstand-
ing event of the meeting was Frank
McCure’s attempt to break Queenslander
Joe Soussari’s nine-year-old Australian record
of 6min. 27 2-ssec. for the 440-yard breast-
stroke. The N.S.W. swimmer was successful,
cutting 4 l-ssec. off.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The American athletes were
not long in giving the Maorilanders a taste
of their quality. In their opening fixture
at Masterton Rothert, the field-games star,
smashed the Australasian record for the
161 b. shot putt, heaving the lead 48ft. 6-]in.
This is far ahead of Maorilander P. Munro’s
43ft. lOlin. at Wellington in 1927, though
the same athlete recorded 45ft. Sin. at Hobart
in the Australian champion ships three years
earlier. World’s best is 52ft. 7Jin. by
the German Emil Herschfeldt.


/UndeS
/Royal
JMarrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'^larleslleidsiG^
Reims
“MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast ... from 12/6 per person
Inclusive Tariff f f rom 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath ......... from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or ala carte. Dinner 5/-
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM
Open from 1 1 a.m. till midnight-
COURT LINKS
w a.m. tin miamgni —18 Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea ... 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
&/><> WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL
SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
Qte Ribbons
wash with
the Garment
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
e
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash
J.& J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
WOMAN'S
LETTER.
Enid Falkiner didn’t have a quiet wedding,
after all. And that’s a mercy for the cater-
ing, floral and dressmaking trades. It
wasn’t a depression knot-tying at all, but
a sumptuous, ivory romain, pearl-hung,
family-lace affair that filled All Saints’
Church, Woollalira, with light and cheerful-
ness and grace. The wedding frock had been
designed as a background for the family
pearls, about ten thousand pounds’ worth
(so a family friend approximates) that swung
lustrous against the dull surface of the frock.
This, of course, had the new cowl effect, and
billowed out to a train. A panel of old lace,
lent by Mrs. Esmond Friend, graced the front
of the frock, and was one in mellowness with
th'o Falkiner lace which formed the veil. A
sheaf of white gladioli and begonias of ex-
ceptional beauty gave the finishing touch.
Cousin Emily Falkiner, of Widgiewa, ’maided
in rhythmic jacaranda chiffons and a wreath
of mauve and blue flowers, and little Adrian
Poole, grandson of ex-Chief Justice Adrian
Knox, a cherub in a blue linen suit, scat-
tered rose petals in the bride’s path. Brother
George gave his sister to the ’groom, who is
Eric Nelson, of Hawke’s Bay, Maoriland,
and who brought Ewan Campbell, a brother
Maorilander, to be his best man. Enid is a
daughter of the squattocracy; her father
was the late F. B. S. Falkiner, of Warren.
Tokay, the Falkiners’ Bellevue Hill home,
was massed with gladioli, tiger-lilies and
delphiniums for the reception; here over 80
guests were bidden welcome by Mrs. Falkiner,
who wore an admirable white and black
outfit.
It’s a queer thing that while Australian
women have taken to photography with an
artistic ardor that has placed them in the
forefront of the business —in Sydney, at any
rate, where much of the best indoor photo-
graphy comes from their studios—portrait-
painting has still to find its great exponent
among the women painters. This is notice-
able among the Archibald prise exhibits.
Only about a dozen women competed, and
in not one instance was their work in the
running. Their people never seem to have
muscle and flesh in their anatomy, only
wood. For the other exhibits, this Letter
■would have given the prize to the nice girl in
the primrose dress, next door to John Long-
staff’s picture of himself. The coloring in
this, background and all, is like a green
and gold spring morning. Barbara Lane
Mullins, exerting marvellous self-restraint
and never pointing a finger of her sky-off-
Cremome-blue suede gloves, was with her
father, the popular John Lane Mullins.
These gloves, in spite of their heavenly color,
are strong and have the elbow-length gaunt-
lets necessary to the successful driving of a
car. Their cerulean hue, it is stated, has
completely captured the aesthetic taste of
all the city’s traffic policemen, and their
wearer is practically as uninterrupted in
her city drives as a fire engine or Queen
Mary. There was a great gathering of the
intelligentsia and others viewing the ex-
hibits on Saturday afternoon, when the mil-
linery of the Mclnnes piper came in for
the prolonged ah! of admiration. Mary
Edwards, by the way, pictures herself in a
chalk-white frock, and hair dressed high
against a blue background. Norman Carter
has a nice vibrant girl, slung about with
sport implements. Percy Lcason, so dash-
ing and fearless in his black-and-white
work, has painted a picture of himself so
modest that he is as nebulous as a Conan
Doyle visitation. Before the entries for
the Wynne prize, John Banks and his wife
were exclaiming over Will Ashton’s Kos-
ciusko scene, which had won first place. The
light on the snow in this canvas would turn
a South Sea Islander into a -winter sports
addict. John himself entered a shadowful,
imaginative bit of Cobbitty country for this
competition.
Clifton Gardens had a wedding of its own
when Edith Sands, only daughter of the
Colonel R. S. Sands couple, married Gordon
Ousby, of Mosman. The wedding garments
were direct from Paris, and were fashioned
in parchment satin for the bride, lace for
’maid Marjorie Archbold, and black satin
for Mrs. Sands, who hostessed the inevitable
reception at the Clifton Gardens Hotel.
Dorothy Moates that was, now Mrs.
Alexander Sinclair Nicol, of Llandudno,
Wales, has cabled news of the arrival of a
daughter, which makes the athletic Frank
Moates (of Noyes Brothers) a grand-dad for
the first time. Dorothy married the surgeon-
commander of H.M.S. Hood over two years
ago, but the bride was lonely so far from
her own country, and the surgeon-com-
mander gave up the sea and bought a shore
practice. Mrs. Moates, who has been visiting
her daughter, intends to return before the
autumn leaves are falling from the apple-
trees at her Penrose orchard home.
A fellow scribe tells the story. The other
clay, sleuthing for gossip, she dawdled into
the lounge of one of our best hotels. There
she saw a leader of fashion of one of the
eastern suburbs refreshing herself and two
cronies with a dish of tea. Presently she
who was hostessing saw the press girl, and,
rising in agitation, came to her. “Oh, please
don’t put my party in your page!” gurgled
the young matron. “It looks so bad to be
entertaining these days!”
Heaven alone knows what was to be
proved by it when five women —two Sydney
girls, two Maorilanders and Mei’cecles
Gleitze —plunged into the Manly Baths on
an endurance swim. Perhaps they just
thought the prize money sounded good. Any-
way last Saturday morning, under a burn-
ing blue sky, four .of them were moving about
in the water like slightly sluggish goldfish,
Mercedes Gleitze in her cheesecloth veil
bringing a touch of the Levant into the pic-
ture. One supposed the cheesecloth was one of
the influences of her Hellespont sprint, but
her husband told the man at the cool-drink
shop, who passed the information on to this
Letter, tljat this head covering was worn be-
cause, unlike rubber caps, it did not hold
and compress the heat of the head. Enzedder
Lily Copplestone, while she trod water, her
arms and legs moving with a somnolent
rhythm, swung her tongue volubly; to a
group of her admirers sitting at the
edge of the top end; of the bath, she
heaped eulogies on her homeland. “And
don’t forget,” she said, “one of our
pounds is worthy twenty-four and six-
pence of your Australian money.” Arms
and legs at this waved like fins in a crescendo
of triumph, and then she shot a disarming
grin to the group above. Arms and legs and
throats of four of the swimmers glinted
guinea-gold under the water from the coat-
ing of amber grease they had over them, but
Mercedes Gleitze, who wore only olive oil
apart from her bathers and the cheesecloth,
looked plumply pallid, particularly when with
her slow, almost wavering breast stroke she
approached the slimmer gold legs of the
Bondi girl. Mrs. Ashcroft, from Manly, and
Mrs. Nehua, the Maori contestant, took
things placidly, and though they may not
exactly have looked like the seagull on _ his
rocking wave, they seemed just as oblivious
of a human audience. Overhead a radio
churned out music. Mercedes’s husband de-
scended some steps to hand her a morning
paper, which she read lying on her back. The
English girl won ; she stayed in the water for
48 hours 15 minutes, Mrs. Nehua being a
close second with 47 hours 52-1 minutes. This
Letter suspects that none of the five will ever
again look at a goldfish in a bowl without
bursting into tears.
Stella Murray is a songbird over whom
Maoriland is already beginning to feel in-
flated. (Strange how the mere thought of
notes produces that word.) Stella, who
was the guest of the Women Writers last
week, has a
merry eye, a
whimsical
mouth and a
’cello-like note
in her speak-
ing voice that
backs up the
rumor that as
a singer she
has almost the
power and the
glory of Clara
Butt. Ten
years or so ago
she left Christ-
church (her
home is on the
Avon) and
journeyed to
London. There
she met Melba,
who encour-
aged her to
take up the
study of singing seriously. Now she is as
front-ranker in oratorio, and on occasion
makes the rafters of the Albert and
the Queen’s halls ring. This was her first
visit to Sydney, with which she fell in love,
the only cloud on her horizon being the
illness of her friend Nellie Melba.
Nora Cordeaux, of Bowral, and Dr. Laurie
Rutherford, of Point Piper, chose Padre
A. H. Gallop for the job when they de-
cided it was double harness for them. All
Saints’, Woollahra, last Saturday was
crowded with town and country friends for
their wedding. The bride, in her ivory satin
sheath and cascade of ivory tulle, was fol-
lowed by four ’maids in apple-green organdie,
against which they carried armlets of glow-
ing nasturtiums. Arthur Wilson best-
manned, and Dr. John Fagan, of Cowra, was
groomsman. The party started at the
Queen’s Club, and was concluded in the
Rutherfords’ hospitable home.
Mrs. Norman Lowe goes off to Europe
soon exchange or no exchange. With her
she takes her novel in its Siamese setting,
which is a triumph of local color, as the
author and her husband spent eight years in
that fascinating country. Her house on
Bradley’s Head is being taken over by Mar-
jorie Hudson as a kindergarten and infants’
school.
A Sydney girl is telling this story against
herself. Lately when she was abroad she
was invited to stay with some titled rela-
tions in Ireland. The ancestral halls were
beautiful and impressive, and the dining-
room at dinner-time was cluttered round
with pampered menials; but one thing
to which .she is accustomed was miss-
ing. There was no napkin beside her
place. Waterford goblets blinked at
her, and an immemorial silver soup-spoon
waited for her to lift it. “Do commence,”
said the son of the house. “Don’t wait for
all the family to be'served.” “Oh,” she
said,'„“l would start, but I’ve no table
napkin.” “Oh, that’s all right,” replied
the heir: “we don’t have them. Mother cut
them out during the war.” Then, she avers,
came the most embarrassing moment of
her travels, for slowly and with great dignity
the butler approached her, silver salver
extended, and a single snowy-white square
upon it.
That active group the United Association,
which is trying to bring about the millen-
nium for women, has for its president the
lady in this Bernice Agar photograph. She
is the wife of
Justice Ken-
neth Street,
and she has
been high
chieftainess of
the Uniteds
. since their for-
mation. The
members are
women who
have made a
study of poli-
tics from the
viewpoint of
the sex. They
do hot agree
that the male
should be
privileged in-
dustrialiy
above the
female, and
one of the
nuts they are cracking just now is that of
restrictive legislation as applied to women
in industries. It seems a proposition that
might call for the wisdom of a Solomon, but
the leader isn’t daunted as she sets about the
task in the Uniteds’ headquarters in Gowing’s
Buildings.
The Reggie Morphew couple (she was
Essie Ackland, of Mosman) drop a line
from London wishing Sydney a happy new
year. Essie is marching steadily to the
front as a popular singer, especially of
oratorio and Scots songs. Husband has a
job in a bank, and a great friend of the
Australian couple is Dr. Muecke, the late
Ada Crossley’s husband. Week-ends they
spend touring rural England in their new
car or else in filling singing engagements in
country houses.
Last Monday the wife of Lud Mayor Jack-
son made her first plunge into sociabilities
by dispensing goodwill to the wives of all
the Town Hall brass-hats. To-morrow
(Thursday) the wives of aldermen and her
own circle of friends will fill her rooms with
summer frocking and chatter. The next
party listed is a special how-do-you-do to
the presswomen.
The thin scythe of new moon that peered
through the uncurtained chinks of window
all over Sydney last week might have gaily
beckoned Governor Phillip to leave his
pedestal opposite and come and have a peep,
too, into the ballroom of Burdekin House.
And when Governor Phillip looked he saw,
or so it seemed, the belles of his own day
gathered in his honor. In reality they were
the members of the Women’s Pioneer
Society, each wearing an heirloom frock, or
at least the mode adopted by her first Aus-
tralian ancestress. Over 200 came to the
party, and the great moment was the toast
of our first Governor. This was given by
Archdeacon Oakes, and though, of course, the
goblets were not shattered after they were
drained, the subject of the toast, in
his flag-swathed frame, seemed quite con-
tented. The Sir Roger de Coverley, a set of
lancers and programmes were introduced to
create atmosphere for the spreading satins, the
Empire frocks and the swaying fans of the
ladies. But powdered hair and old-time
gambols cannot give back the placidity of
face and the careless jnerriment of manner
enjoyed when hard work and privation were
man’s only foe, and tigers had not come to
live in Macquarie-street. The Pioneers’
president, Mrs. W. A. Lingham, was stun-
ning in voluminous parchment satin and
Mechlin lace. Her ringleted hair was bound
by a blue riband, and her slippers were blue.
The ivory fan handed down to Carlotta Doyle
from a great grandmother awakened the baser
instincts in many a female bosom. Corbetta
King, in a rose-satin Empire frock, made a
warm bit of color against the suave panelling
of the room. Francis Connell’s chignon
emerged with a Burne-Jones effect above an
Irish lace berthe of countless years. Nor
must mention be forgotten of Mrs. W. Epps,
in lilac and silver, fashioned in the mode of
Versailles when Louis XV. was its tenant.
OVERHEARD.
He : “Jim’s fiancee looks a determined girl.”
She: “H’m, yes —hard and fast!”
A note from Brisbane: — ,
On the whole Brisbane has not taken kindly
to the long skirt, but at the Australia Day race
meeting at Ascot there . were quite a number of
ankle-length and trailing frocks, with wide-brimmed
hats, illustrative of the drooping feminine effect now
coming back to us from the bygone years. Brilliant
crotons and zinnias framed the emerald of the
grassy lawns, and many bright sunshades were car-
ried. Mrs. E. M. Ralph wore black and mastic with
a mastic hat; Mrs. T. A. Spence, white china silk
with a green hat; Mrs. J. P. 0. Cowlishaw, red
chiffon with cream and brown hat; Mrs. J. Cadell-
Garrick, black and white; Iris Buchanan, wine-red;
Jean Graham’s powder blue, rose and gold crgpe de
Chine was worn with a variegated powder-blue hat;
Eileen Moore was in white crepe de Chine; Mrs. G.
D. Logan, in black and rose; and Cecily Cadell-
Garrick chose pink, broidered in white. Mrs. Cadell-
Garrick had tea on the verandah for Mrs. Isaac
Moore and daughter Eileen. The Cecil Palmers were
amongst the throng, also the J. H. S. Barneses, of
Canning Downs, Colonel and Mrs. Craven, Cooee
Blume, Premier A. E. Moore, Pat O’Shea and W.
Dearden.
The second day’s racing was held with the
thermometer at 94, and no breath of wind. Mrs.
Isaac Moore gave a tea on the committee-room
verandah, wearing honey color and a brown hat.
Mrs. Larnond (Sydney) wore pastel-patterned silk,
with touches of blue on her flecked straw hat. Mrs.
J. H. Baring Gould, over here from Penang, wore
saxe and cherry and a rose beige hat. Mrs. Wallis
Hoare was in saxe blue and mastic., Zoe Earl
chose white.
Families who have lived 30 years in Longreach
v\ere allied by the marriage at St. Andrew’s of
Philip George Whelan and Ethel Agnes Richardson.
The bride, who was given away by her brother-
in-law, W. Jackson, was in white mariette, with a
circular veil arranged mob-cap fashion and lilies o’
the valley for her flowers. Olga Shepherd and Nettie
Howard ' ’maided in pink and blue respectively.
Pendants of pearls and sapphires were worn, the
gifts of the bridegroom. The feasting was at the
Shepherd home in Crane-street; Brisbane and Syd-
ney see the ’moon.
Betty Hugall and Dorothy Hooper arranged a
kitchen-tea at Atcherley roof garden in honor of
bride-elect Thelma Robertson, who wore salmon pink
with a cream hat. There were many gifts. On
the same afternoon Flora Luck was fSted at Lennons
by Mrs. S. C. Luck, prior to her marriage to N. E.
Moore-Raymond. Roses and a miniature bride
were the decorations at the tea table. Flora Luck
wore a brown French model frock.
Mrs. E. B. Moore, the Premier’s mother, arrived
by the Naldera to stay for a few months with her
son. She was born in Maoriland, but was brought up
in England, returning to the Shivery Isles later.
Her husband, a banker, died eight years ago in
London, where Mrs. Moore now lives with her
daughters.
From our Adelaide Little Sister: —
His Ex. looked in at the Adelaide Racing Club s
holiday meeting at Victoria Park. Mr. James Hill
(chairman) and his two pretty daughters Muriel
and Gwen entertained at afternoon tea. Miss Hall
wore a frock of almond-green patterned crepe de
Chine with hat to match, and her sister chose a
fawn and brown silk, with a small brown hat. The
Victor Wilson knight and his wife were among the
visitors, the lady looking smart in a black geoigette
spotted with beige, and a black straw hat. They
left on Wednesday, after spending the Christmas
vacation at Mount Crawford.
The frocking at the races was an absolute riot of
color, with floral chiffons, ensembles of vivid jade
and emerald, and geranium red much in favor.
Violet de Mole left by thq Moldavia on
Thursday for France, where she will spend some
months. Nancy Bowman, a daughter of the Keith
Bowmans, of Poltalloch station, Tailem Bend, is
travelling under her wing.
Beatrice Ternan, who has lived for the last
15 years in Melbourne, has been on a visit to
Adelaide, her home town. She was induced to give
an evening at the Adelaide Women’s Club, when she
read extracts from the poems of John Masefield.
At Glenelg the police have been trying to enforce
the prehistoric by-law that insists upon neck-to-
knee bathing suits. As shops left off stocking such
absurd costumes years ago, bathers are faced with
a hot spell and a dilemma as to what to wear. The
gay-colored pyjama suits that have made the seaside
resorts so. colorful this summer have also come
under the disfavor of authority.
Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Pullman (he is a former
secretary of the Port Adelaide Racing Club) have
returned after a motor trip through the Grampian
Hills. This is becoming a popular tour for Adelaide
folk; Mr. and Mrs. S. Talbot Smith are upon the
same excursion at present.
The widow of George Brookman, who made a pile
at Kalgoorlie and was knighted for his benefactions—
for one thing, her-gave £15,000 to found the Adel-
aide School of Mines—is dead in London, where
she had gone on a visit with a niece. She was
a St. Kilda (Vic.) girl before her marriage to the
Golden Mile man, and was a helpful wife to him
for just on 50 years. Their one son, Norman, served
in the Great War.


im
m
m
m
m
WP
M
! ■
m
m
mm
Columbia
«
m
3*TO
Magic
Notes
The Symbol of
Perfect Recording r
Faithful Reproduction
longer Wear
Selections
from the February List
“FAUST”
The Complete Opera sung in English
by World-famous Artists. 16 Records
in Art Album, £4/16/-
LOX 62-3
(8/6 each)
Romeo and Juliet—Overture Fantasie
(Tschaikowsky) In Four Parts
Willem Mengelberg & His
Concertgebouw Orchestra
DOX 83
(6/-)
Volga Boat Song (Arr. Sir H. J. Wood)
Prelude in C Sharp Minor
(Rachmaninoff, arr. Sir H. J. Wood)
.Sir H. J. Wood & His Symphony Orchestra
DOX 84
(6/-)
Raymond-Overtare (Thomas) InTwoPts.
Percy Pitt & Symphony Orchestra
DOX 85
(6/-)
A Musical Jig-Saw In Two Parts
Regal Cinema Orchestra
DOX 106
(6/-)
fWar Marching Songs In Two Parts
1 Debroy Somevs Band, with Male Quaytet
DOX 81
(6/-)
f Rhapsody in Blue In Two Parts
1 Quentin M. Maclean, Organ
DOX 87
(6/-)
[Daft Sandy (Will Fyffe) In Two Parts
\ Will Fyffe, Comedian
DO 255
(V-)
Clapham and Dwyer on Photography
In Two Parts
Clapham & Dwyer, Descriptive Sketch
Ask your dealer for the
complete February list
and a copy of the
Columbia Catalogue.
Obtainable at All Music Stores.
9
R
1
LL3I4
For Every Car
there is an
Battery
More than 75 per cent, of the world’s
cars are equipped with Exide Batteries—
cars of every class, from every country.
For every car made since the introduction
of the self-starter, there is a suitable
Exide Battery ; no matter what car you
drive British, American or European
—you can enjoy the sterling service that
Exide, the Long Life Battery, can give you.
Here is a PARTIAL list of cars for which
Exide Batteries are available from stock s
BRITISH
Alvis, Armstrong Siddeley, Arrol Johnson,
Austin, Bean, Clyno, Crossley, Daimler,
Hillman, Morris Cowley, Morris Oxford,
Rolls Royce, Rover, Singer, Standard,
Star, Sunbeam, Vauxhall, Wolseley.
AMERICAN
Ajax, Auburn, Buick, Chandler, Chrysler,
Cleveland, Dodge, Durant, Erskine, Essex,
Falcon Knight, Flint, Hudson, Hupmobile,
Marmon, Nash, Oakland, Oldsmobile,
Overland, Packard, Paige, Pontiac, Rugby,
Studebaker, Whippet, Willys Knight.
CONTINENTAL
Aurea, Benz, Citroen, Delage, Fiat,
Lancia, Minerva, Renault, Stoewer.
Exide Service, as well as Exide Batteries,
is universal. Whatever make of Battery
your car is equipped with at present,
Exide Service Stations will extend to you
the same service privileges as to owners
of Exide Batteries.
Buy from your Local Garage
txibe
The LonjS Life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO <m<! HOME LIGHTING
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.), Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge,
2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ; Stanley
Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & John-
stone Ltd., 07 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons, Collins Street,
Hobart.
C 6
SHADOW SHOWS
In “Enter, Sir John,” a British thriller,
which was recently pre-shown in Melbourne,
the innovation, is tried of treating a criminal
jury as 12 distinct entities. When these
nine men and three women are discussing
the murder out of court the effect of each
juror’s words can be seen on the faces of
the other 11, and the effect is absorbing. The
famous actor Sir John Menier, is one of the
jury. He agrees that circumstantial evidence
points to the guilt of the girl—and writes
guilty; yet suspects that the verdict is
wrong. So he turns detective, runs the real
murderer to earth and gains a charming lead-
ing lady for life. Herbert Marshall is splen-
did as Sir John. For interest, originality
and acting this British film surpasses any-
thing Alfred Hitchcock, who is Elstree’s
leading director, has done to date.
* *
“Liliom,” Fox Movietone’s version of Mol-
nar’s play, at Sydney Regent, is so good that
it will probably go the way of “Holiday,”
“Up the River” and “Laughter.” The eon-
ventions of Hollywood are all ignored. The
hero is a hound, and the heroine never gets
above the bread-line. Their child, though
a tragic figure, inspires no sobs, and the
plot is based on fantasy.
The action opens at Budapesth, during
Carnival time. Charles Farrell is Liliom, a
gigolo, and the property, for the time being,
° f e sf el | e Baylor who runs a merry-go-round,
SJS 8 to Rose Harbord, an angelic
J'ctory-girl, and they go to live with her
( brutal character soon asserts
and he ends by getting involved m a
robbery, which leads to his arrest, suicide
and d^ th in Rose / arms - The judgment
tram dra Y! up > aad hif Phantom is ushered
aboard ' At a sort of Orderly Room pre-
®ldud . H ;. B ' Wa " lcr (miraculously
£ 0 " e . ct <and kindly as Deputy” for “The
Great Executne ), the waster pleads to be
flowed to return to earth and see lus baby,
!(° IS gl Y ea a spell in I nrgatory, and then
Warner takes him back. The little girl is
P* \ n er garden. Her idol is her
tether, whom she has never seen. Farrell
suddenly loses his temper and hits her, as
he lised to hlt ber mother, whereupon he
dissolves and re-appears on the train, where
Warner points out how much better it is to
leave mother and clllld to their illusions,
Perfectly balanced works of this kind
make one realise the new hierarchs that
have arisen in the entertainment world. Once
the play was the thing; then the players;
and for a brief space one player—an actor—or
actress-manager. Now success depends on a
College of Cardinals, and it is impossible to
say who is primus inter pares. Taking this
play, in which an actor as tine as Warner
appears at his best, it is clear that the photo-
grapher, the sound man and the editor are
equally vital in relation to the completed
whole. One of the most touching effects
is achieved not by anything said but by a
violin, most mysterious of instruments, play-
ing in a restaurant.
f * *
The film version of '‘On Approval ’ at
Sydney State Theatre _ suggests that the
actor-director may be going to do the screen
as bad a turn as the actor-manager did the
stage. Tom Walls is the producer, and he
lias cast himself as the Duke of Bristol,
The originator of Peter Doody is a skilled
fun-maker but there is nothing ducal about
him. English dukes are sometimes cads as
the Duke of Bustol is a Londo J &
recently told, one whose ancestors have worn
the. strawberry leaves for a couple of cen-
tunes that he lmd noi e of t 3 *
to ‘ drunks' 7 adulterers and
&Jb£ > kZfeS<USS2US
organisation of society in the U.K., they
always remain recognisable members of their
class. Tom Walls is not the Duke of Bristol
in voice, ways, clothes or anything else; he
is waggish Mr. Bristol, a sporting city man,
well known about the bodegas, who was edu-
cated at a Grammar School and buys his
ikey suits in the Strand. The scenic effects
are equally unconvincing. Mrs. Wislak’s
Scottish castle, as seen from the outside, is
a palpable cardboard fake, and the furniture
and interior decorations both in London and
Scotland reek of Tottenham Court-road,
Tom Walls’s comic stuff seems all the more
Cockneyfied by contrast with the restrained
acting of his colleagues. Winifred Shotter
plays the profiteer’s daughter, who is told by
n ie du k e that she should be proud to marry
on charming if slightly colorless lines;
and Yvonne Arnaud as the domineering pos-
sessor of £25,000 a year, and Edmund Greon
as j iei . spineless admirer, are in the best tra-
cations of light comedy.
Though Tom Walls is an unsophisticated
duce * in this ficld and a suf £ rer , so to
£ peak> from the down ’’ s traditional yearning
to play Hamlet, he certainly gets the laughs,
w £ e / he clas ’ ped his stomach the other
night> doilbled his legs> and roared « 0 w !
Cw!” in bogus agony, the house roared with
)jim > and most of Lonsdale’s witty lines went
r“: W.t* 1 obvious ones,
ie s cr^111& because you said she
41. '
Duke ; fehe s not crying because I said she
she s crying because she is 41.
That one caused as much hilarity as any
of the farcical bits, and the mildly improper
jokclets also got enthusiastic receptions.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: LILAC TIME.
CRITERION: ON THE SPOT.
1. cT WILLIAMSON, LTD?,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SON’S O’ GUNS
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
OICK. ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE FILM GIRL,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Legal Notice.
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT
1929.
And in the Matter of the ASSURANCE COMPANIES
ACT 1909 and In the Matter of the AUSTRAL
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS, POLICY-HOLDERS AND
OTHERS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Creditors
of the abovenamed Company which is being wound
up voluntarily in England are required on or before
the 23rd day of May 1931 to send their names and
addresses and the particulars of their debts or
claims and the names and addresses of their Solicitors
(if any) to the undersigned the Solicitors for Arthur
Pelham Ford the Liquidator of the said Austral Insur-
ance Company Limited and if so required by notice
in writing from the said Liquidator are by their
Solicitors or personally to come •in and prove the
said debts or claims at such time and place as shall
be specified in such notice or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of any distri-
bution made before such debts are proved.
AND NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons holding or being assured under any policy
of assurance issued by the said abovenamed Company
or claiming to be entitled to any policy moneys or
bonus payable under any such policy are required
on or before the said 23rd day of May 1931 to send
particulars of their policies or claims and the names
and addresses of their Solicitors (if any) to the
undersigned or in default thereof application will he
made to the High Court of Justice in England for
the payment out of the deposit standing in the said
Court to the credit of “ex parte the Austral Insurance
Company in respect of Life Assurance business’
pursuant to the abovementioned Companies
Act 1909 without regard to any policies or any
claims to policy moneys or bonuses of which the
abovenamed Liquidator shall not then have had
notice. ,
Dated the 22nd day of December 1930.
CHARLES RUSSELL & CO., 37 Norfolk Street,
Strand, London, W.C.2, England, Solicitors for
the abovenamed Liquidator.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley e- Numn [?]ted
[?]o[?] [?] M[?]
Bidden to tea at Menzies’ by the Isaacs
lady, women journalists found —though there
was nothing about the invitations to suggest
it —that they were the guests. It was a
happy get-to-know-you thought of the G.-G.’s
wife. The scene was the eastern room, and
to the near-Oriental hangings and wall deco-
ration, beautiful flowers were added —rambler
roses, hydrangeas and gladioli, with sweet-
peas and carnations from the Isaacs garden
at Macedon. The hostess wore a black
chenille-embossed gown with a pink vest and
black hat; her daughter, Mrs. David Cohen,
aired a black cloth-tailored suit with a flow-
ered silk shirt waist and shiny black straw
hat. Mrs. L. S. Bracegirdle was also there,
in a frock that mingled orange red and
brown in its spotted pattern, topped by a
brown baku hat. Captain Bracegirdle
hovered on the outskirts of the feminine tea
party. Cigarettes being passed around, the
wife of the King’s representative related a
cheerful anecdote about her most expensive
smoke. Driving her car on a N.S.W. coun-
try road, and wishing to light a cigarette,
she permitted someone who professed to be
a driver to take the wheel. The understudy
ran into a mob of sheep and made dead meat
of one. The drover naturally asked for
compensation. “Thirty shillings,” he said,
adding grimly that the party could have the
deceased. There was nothing to do but to
hand over the one pound ten, though it did
seem rather much to pay for a puff or two.
There was no sign of depression about
the well-turned-out audience that welcomed
“Sons o’ Guns” to the Royal. Every prin-
cipal received a cheery welcome, and that
to Gus Bluett bubbled over. In the
dressing of the piece the Firm has done
well, though there are occasions when legs
would look better cased in hose. One would
like to see Bertha Riccardo, who makes the
hit of her stage career as Yvonne, wearing
silk stockings, specially when her frocks are
abbreviated; the cult of bare legs didn’t come
from France. The peasants’ frocks in the
courtyard of the French inn are really beauti-
ful, and the many changes of glad rags at
the Victory Ball are really arresting. The
semi-military attire of ITrench-blue mingled
with scarlet, aired by Elsie Prince and a
bevy of the ballet, is another bit of color
to halt the eye.
Noticed among the first-nighters were
knight George Tallis and an almost complete
muster of the Tait families. Dorothy
Brunton, who was accompanied by her
mother, was hailed by the gallery; a posy
rested on the balustrade of her box. Knight
William McPherson, the Merson Coopers,
Mr. and Mrs. Felix Lloyd and the W. M.
Robins couple were there. Mrs. Thring,
whose white fur wrap with its cut jet and
rhinestone trimming halted the eye; Mrs.
Dale, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Bishop, Mrs. W.
Merry and Mr. and Mrs. P. Glass were
others present. Cartloads of flowers with a
huge teddy-bear for Bluett were passed over
the footlights.
Kurneh, South Yarra, scene of many de-
lightful social happenings when it was the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes, is to
become a guest-house. With its lovely garden
and grounds it has been taken on lease by
Mons. and Madame Cockerton, noted for their
connection with a favorite Collinsrstreet
restaurant. The lady is prominent in the
Alliance Frangaise, and has made a name
for herself in the Proscenium Club as a
bright amateur actresis. Mr. and Mrs.
Brookes and three daughters are at present
at their picturesque bungalow at Frankston,
overlooking Davey’s Bay. It is very probable
that they will go travelling later in the year.
Before long Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Stuart
will transfer their domicile to their seaside
place at Sorrento. They have sold their
Toorak home, Logan House, to Stanley
Allen, of the Flinders-lane firm.
Pretty Patricia Lempriere, daughter of the
A. R. Lempriere couple, who is to wed Robin
C. Todhunter to-day (Feb. 4), was the guest
of honor at a dinner at Menzies’, given by Mr.
and Mrs. C. J. Henderson. The hostess wore
garnet-red lace ; her daughter Leslie was in a
draped frock of white chiffon taffeta sprigged
in red ; and the bride-elect set off her fair-
ness with a billowy gown of delicate pink
tulle.
Another pre-nuptial party for Pat Lem-
priere was staged at the home of the Russell
Clarke couple by their son John and daughter
Marjorie. A dinner followed by a visit to
“The Film Girl” at the Tivoli formed the
evening’s programme. Miss Clarke wore
white georgette and filmy lace.
Sylvia Knox-Knight, a daughter of the
late Colonel Knox-Knight and of Mrs. Ivnox-
Knight, of Malvern, is to change her name
at the Church of England Grammar School
chapel on the 26th. The happy man is
Spencer Fellows Millear, member of a
Western District family. The after-recep-
tion will be staged at the Lyceum Club.
The Victorian branch' of the Wattle
League celebrated Australia Day with a
gathering at the E.-S.U. rooms. Pianist
Edward Cahill was singled out for a special
welcome by the president, Mrs. Britomarte
James. Among the contributors of music
were Hilda Meadows, Betty Paterson, Wini-
fred Moverley and the Rev. R. M. Fergus;
Dr. Ethel Osborne gave an address on the
beauty of Australia’s countryside.
Brocade of the tint of old ivory, over
which flowed lovely Honiton lace as veil,
was worn by Maisie Thomson when she
became the ’ life-partner of Dr. Raymond
W. S. Fox. The bride is the eldest daughter
of the Rev. and Mrs. E. C. Thomson, of
Murrumbeena, and her father, assisted by
the Rev. L. Arnold, did the knot-tying in
the C. of E. Grammar School chapel.
Eileen Thomson and Pamela Brown, clothed
in chiffon of apple-green tint with clinging
millinery of the same shade, ’maided. The
happy couple are setting up housekeeping
in Emerald, Queensland.
The just-unpacked velvets for autumn
wear are fabrics of beauty. Brown and
wine are the shades which are to be favored,
and there are embossed and brocaded pat-
terns which in their folds suggest curtains
and the like. They look almost too gorgeous
to cut up into flounces and flares.
One of the February weddings will be that
of Lavender, daughter of the Leslie Stuarts,
of Logan House, Toorak. She is to marry
Geoffrey Holt Grimwade, son of the Norton
Grimwades, of Macedon, on the 17th.
Gladys Moncrieff hostessed a supper party
at the Oriental Hotel to say an revoir to
friends. She is to lift her liquid notes, under
contract to Union Theatres, in South Aus.
and H Westralia.
A canoe race on the Maribyrnong, a stream
which wanders along at the back of Fleming-
ton racecourse and meanders for miles about
Iveilor, was a bright enisode of the week.
The course was about five miles, and 17 or
more crafts were entered. Strung in a
single line of varied color the canoes with
their two occupants, mostly in bathing-suits,
were drawn to the starting-point by a motor-
launch ; the trail, curling round the horseshoe
bends of the picturesque narrow river, made
a pretty sight. For some distance on each
side of the river there are avenues of trees,
notably pines; a mile or so from the
bridge the water becomes fresh and clumps
of rushes appear. It was nleasant to
see the canoes, blue, pink, green and
yellow, skimming along, especially as the
afternoon was grey and cool. Melbourne,
by the way, has many canoe clubs; there
were six represented in the race on the
Maribyrnong.
The Williamstown Racing Club had a fine
day for its meeting, and rain had freshened
up the lawns and flower-beds. Dressing
favored the useful and comfortable —tailored
warm suits and fur-collared coats, with small
hats. Mrs. W. P. Mein was in a navy-blue
costume and straw hat. Mrs. Nagle wore
all brown, with a bright scarf. The
Ben Chaffeys, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Gabb,
Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Vincent (from Geelong)
and their daughter Sammie, the Rogers
Thomsons and Mrs. N. G. Musther were
present.
J. O. Smith, whose play “Sunnyside” is
about to be produced for three nights to
clear the debt off Lord Somers’s boys’ camp
at Balnarring, is no novice at such work. In
the days when melodrama was in brisk de-
mand he 'wrote three Australian pieces,
“The Miner’s Trust,” “The Girl of the Never-
Never” and “The Bushwoman.” Meynell and
Gunn staged the first, and William Anderson
the other two. “Sunnyside” is a comedy with
a local setting, the scene being a sheep
station owned by two elderly maiden ladies.
Claude Thomas, besides playing a small role,
is producing the piece at the Bijou Theatre,
and several other ex-Repertorians are in the
cast. As an additional attraction scenes from
the holiday camp just concluded will be
screened.
The Isaacs lady pronounced the opening
words at a fete held in Macedon to aid the
funds of the Gisborne Cottage Hospital. The
happening was originally arranged for the
grounds of Dreamthorpe, home of the Hodges
dame, but rain made a transfer to the local
hall necessary. The G.-G.’s wife was accom-
panied by Mrs. David Cohen and by Cap-
tain and Mrs. Bracegirdle, and received the
usual tribute of flowers.
This picture of Miss Gilman Jones, head
of the Church
of England
Girls’ Gram-
mar School,
South Yarra,
is a reproduc-
tion of the
portrait of this
able education-
ist by young
Ailcen Dent,
of Melbourne.
Recently the
Parents’ Asso-
ciation pur-
chased the pic-
ture and pre-
sented it to
the school to
be hung in
a place of
honor in the
lately acquired
Grim wade
House.
Everyone who goes to Cowes does the
wherV'seafs “
Now and then fisher “ en complain that the
toS^a^N^Tcl'
permit has been granted recently, yet many
d(1&d sea i g have been washed ashore; and
there is indignation at the butchery. It is
a poor sort of sport , especially as the skins
are not convertible into fur coats or even
d rugs . Also threatened by the Cockney
tom -i s t and his kind are the penguin rook-
eries at Phelan’s Bluff, a little over seven
miles from Cowes. These silly trippers per-
gist in being noisy, and the penguins are
afraid of the human voice. In the result
there is a real danger that the im-
mensely funny “babies” will be wafted
elsewhere from the haunts of man.
Silence is asked also of those visiting the
mutton-bird rookeries, for while there are
voices and movement these queer birds will
hover around for hours at night until all
appears safe. Luckily the native-bear popu-
lation of the island is protected. Were it
not so the last Billy Bluegum would have
been stoned from his tree-top perch by some
yahoo from Melbourne.
Pupils at the Melbourne Girls’ High
School are now housed in luxurious sur-
roundings at what was Government House on
St. Kilda-road About 40 rooms of the close-
on-200 available have been utilised for the
training of the 700 students The ballroom,
stripped of its blue and gold draperies, is
the assembly and lecture hall, and the big
dining-room, drawing-room, billiard-room,
etc., have all been converted into hives of
culture. The coach-house and residential
quarters around comprise the junior school.
The private suites of the vice-regal domicile
are not being encroached upon to any extent.
On one of the few warm evenings of the
week the Chatterer sought St. Kilda beach,
where a charity carnival has been in progress
in aid of the local unemployment fund and
the Memorial Hall. The waterfront and
parade twinkled with countless colored
lights. The crowds seethed around Luna
Park and the avenue of stalls outside the
enclosure. The air was thick with invita-
tions to “Try your luck,” an offer so readily
availed of that it was often difficult to get
near enough to see what inducement was
being offered for a coin. One of the best
values in the raffle line was the chance of
acquiring a smart motor-boat for a shilling.
There was no suggestion of a slump in the
harvest of silver that was being reaped,
or in the lines of cars. In Luna
Park itself one hung on to one’s bag,
pushed through the mass of humanity,
and hoped for the best. Every build-
ing therein and the scenic railway were
picked out in lights; with a rush and roar
full carriages of shrieking young people
dashed up and down and round the curves.
“Dodge-’ems” and other noisy contrivances, in
which folk propelled themselves or were
propelled, made horrible din with some
canned music; and there was the occasional
pleasant relief of a brass-band. Collins-street,
with its electric trams, was positively rest-
ful, almost peaceful, by way of contrast. To
a mere onlooker it seemed an extraordinary
thing for women to bring their wee babies
into such a bedlam. Some of these mites
lay in their prams, eyes wide with wonder
at the glitter and the roar.
Fellow-members of the Victorian Pro-
fessional Musicians’ orchestra assembled at
St. Mary’s, Caulfield, when Nellie Elizabeth
White and Arthur Paul Stender were made
one on the 29th. Besides playing under the
baton of Gustave Slapoffski they furnished a
guard of honor, with instruments upraised as
arch, when the newly-weds left the church.
Two ’maids in flowered chiffon and lace
straw hats attended the bride, whose ivory
satin gown had a top-dressing of real Spanish
lace. •
Minnie Love is attracting to the Tivoli
many of those who enjoyed her work as a
J. C. Williamson star ten years ago, and
making hosts of new friends. During her
absence abroad
she acquired
an impressive-
looking hus-
band 6| feet
in height and
built in pro-
portion ; he is
Herbert Cyril,
who has theat-
rical and other
interests < — he
was an actor
for a time and
has made a
comedy talkie.
They cele-
brated the
seventh anni-
versary of
their wedding
day on the
day they
landed in Mel-
bourne. Miss
Love lias played leading rdles in many musi-
cal shows in Britain. About four years ago
in a revue at the Lyceum she did a few
impersonations, and made such a hit that
she went into vaudeville. The Spanish dance
burlesque, in which the lady here portrayed
is supported by Athol Tier in “The Film
Girl,” was first done by them at a fancy-
dress ball aboard the steamer which brought
them to Australia, and it is the most popular
number in the show.
A recruit to professional ballet rank is
Patricia Wenman, daughter of the Charles
Wenman couple, who will make her debut in
the G. and S. comic opera season at Eastei.
Both her mother and her aunt (Maggie Dick-
enson) were charming dancers of the Meynell
and Gunn co. and later the Firm’s shows
and pantomimes. Patricia showed promise at
a charity performance last year in a ballet
put on by pupils of Jennie Brenan.
Details of the wedding of Sadie Bell Long-
land, a bright Melbourne girl, and John
Edgar Lewis, of Staffordshire, came by the
English mail. The bride’s gown was of
deep ivory velvet embroidered in gold, the
veil being of old Brussels lace. The one
’maid wore peach-pink chiffon with velvet
millinery of the same shade.
Back from Tanganyika is Mrs. R. B. Flinn,
who as Kathleen White was well known in
kindergarten circles in Melbourne; she is
to visit relatives at Cobar. When Dr. and
Mrs. Murray Buntine went to East Africa,
she accompanied them, and there met Mr.
Flinn—he is a clergyman.
Greatly mourned is the late Dr. T. O'L.
Reynolds, son of T. O’L. Reynolds, deputy-
chairman of the Tramways Board. Dr. Rey-
nolds was resident medical officer at the
General Hospital, Toowoomba; ill for some
time, he came to Melbourne for special treat-
ment, which unhappily proved of no avail.
Pie was born here and was a brilliant
graduate of our University.
From the Little Sister in Perth: —
Mary Lonergan, of Swanbourne, and Dr. J. 0.
Bennett, of Jarrahdale, exchanged promises in the
shelter of an archway of fern and pink carnations
and in front of an altar beautiful with blue
hydrangeas, pink gladioli and carnations. The bride’s
long-sleeved gown fell in folds of white moire to
her satin toes and an all-white shower bouquet
peeped among the mists of tulle veil. Two ’maids
in shell-pink moire and featherweight pink millinery
carried bunches of blue hydrangeas. The wedding
cake, a present from the Loretto nuns, was cut at
the Esplanade, where the bride’s mother held a
small reception.
Ella Cresswell and Tom Dowling hoisted the
sails of their matrimonial skiff on a recent evening.
Ivory georgettes, swathed about the bride, fell in
full flares from the knee-line to the ankles. A
simple girdle, a touch of lace upon the bodice and
flowing sleeve trimmings were other features. The
veil was of Limerick lace. The one attendant, Mrs.
Brooke, of S. Aus., wore chiffons patterned to
match her bouquet of red roses.
Charles Iffla, who has grown an apostle-like chest-
nut beard during his four years of study in Italy,
gave . two concerts in Perth, and will repeat the
process in Fremantle. In addition to his golden
voice, the singer possesses a remarkably fine
physique. “Credo,” from “Otello,” and “Prologo,
from “II Pagliacci,” were his only plunges into
opera. Groups of old Italian songs, folk songs of
many lands and sea chanties brought out the light
and shade of his rich baritone, and the “Song of the
Volga Boatmen,” in Russian, received an ovation.
Keith Cummings assisted with his exquisite fiddling
and an English pianist, Malcolm Dick, proved himself
a sympathetic accompanist.
Dark-haired, willowy Billie Poynton, of South
Perth, has become engaged to Frank, eldest son of
the late Jock Morrison and Mrs. Morrison of Mount-
street. Edith Frances Riches, of Cottesloe, has
promised to marry William Keith Carroll, of Alice
Springs, son of Senator Carroll.
Dr. Vera Summers returned by the Mongolia.
Obtaining her Arts degree in Perth, she was
appointed to the staff of the P.L.C., a post which
she relinquished to study modern languages in
South Africa, where she gained more exam, honors.
After her return to this State she won a Hackett
Scholarship. Research work occupied her in Europe.
A civic reception was tendered in the Perth Town
Hall to Claude de Bernales, whose long and arduous
fight for the gold bonus has ended in success.
Prospector Larcombe and his son were among those
present, and received the congratulations of speakers
and spectators on their successful treasure hunt, the
spoil of which was the Golden Eagle.
Tasmania joins in :
The Australia, Canberra and Albatross, heralded
by three seaplanes, made their appearance on
the Derwent on schedule time. Owing to the Court
mourning for the late Duchess of Fife, festive
doings were postponed for another week. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Evans, immensely popular in the
Speck, are renewing acquaintance with many old
friends.
President Mrs. Henry Dobson engineered a recep-
tion for the National Council of Women at the
Lyceum Club. Premier McPhee was one of the few
mere males whose black coats showed up against
the pink hydrangea decorations. Mrs. Muscio (visit-
ing president) sported pink georgette with a black
bridge coat; the Lieut.-Gov.’s lady was in black
and gold. Music, talk and a good supper kept
everyone in cheery mood till a late hour.
The visiting delegates to the National Council of
Women hadn’t the best of weather for their stay,
but they were full of appreciation for the good
organisation of the meetings and the entertainment
provided for them. Mrs. Banks-Smith, the hard-
working secretary, deserves full credit for the last.
On the day after Mrs. Dobson’s reception, Mayor
and Mayoress Soundy tea-ed a crowd at the Town
Hall. The Victoria League took 12 motor-loads
of delegates and friends to Huonville, via Ranelagh
and Franklin —a splendid outing, with a spread at
the Huonville Town Hall, where Mrs. F. Spenser-
Parsons, the Warden and others entertained the
visitors. The Rotary Club gave a luncheon, where
Mrs. Muscio spoke on Vienna; the Lyceum Club
farewelled the delegates with music and feasting,
and they returned hospitality with a big show
at the Imperial, which wound up a week filled
with good work and social amenities.
Barbara, daughter of the J. J. Gatenbys, formerly
of Pisa, Cressy, was married to Ted Ormond, of
Hawkes Bay (M.L.), at St. Luke’s Church, Havelock
North. The bride wore a frock of pearl-white heavy
satin, severely cut, with long train, and her mother's
wedding veil. Three ’maids and two wee train-
bearers followed. The guests numbered about 300.
The Gatenbys left many friends in the Speck when
they departed.
Mrs. Walter Marks and daughter Joan (Sydney),
are spending some weeks in the Speck. The Tom
Browns are at Ferntree. Misses Hort-Brown (Darling
Point, Sydney), Elinor Wren (Melb.), and Hattie
Alexander (Melb.) are among other visiting main-
landers.


è
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Broken Hill is in High Spirits.
No Labor disputes there.
New agreement fixed for this year.
Exchange position all in our favor.
Minimum wage £4/10/- a week, and to stay
7/6 above the State basic wage right on.
Please address all the people through “The
Barrier Miner’’ if you have anything to sell.
Mine workers, business men, settlers,
All read “THE BARRIER MINER” every day.
Always Use the
Best!
Cutlcnra Soap
for regular daily toilet use
in the home and for sham-
pooing the hair.
Cnticnra Ointment
for rashes and all skin irrita-
tions of young and old.
Cut icura Talcum
as an ideal finishing touch
to your toilet.
Soap la. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE sd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
60,000 SOLD IN SIX WEEKS.
Thy Servant a Dog
By RUDYARD KIPLING. Illus-
trated by G. L. STAMPA. Cloth,
ss. net. Leather, 10s. 6d. net.
The Story of Fergie Bey
The Life of Vere Fergusson. With
Foreword by SIR REGINALD
WINGATE, G.C.B. Illustrated.
18s. net.
“John o’ London’s Weekly”: “This is a
book of stirring adventure which is also a part
of recent and vital history. Captain Fergus-
son’s letters are full of charm and candor.”
Christina Rossetti
By DOROTHY MARGARET
STUART, author of “Horace
Walpole" in the same series.
ss. net.
[English Men of Letters.
C. Rossetti’s Poetical Works, 4s.
6d. net. Selected Poems, 3s. 6d.
net.
A Treatise on Money
By J. M. KEYNES—2 vols. Vol.
1, The Pure Theory of Money.
15s. net. Vol 11, The Applied
Theory of Money. 1 ss. net.
DEC. CHOICE OF THE BOOK
SOCIETY.
Diary of a Provincial Lady
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
What Is Love?” “Turn Back
the Leaves,” etc. Illustrated.
[Empire Library.
The “Daily Mail”: “Miss Delafield’s humor
is crisp and unforced. .. .every page has an
unexpected twist.”
Portrait of a Dog
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna,” “Whiteoaks,”
etc. With Illustrations by
MORGAN DENNIS. 7s. 6d. net.
<( Mr. S. P. B. Mais in the “Daily Telegraph”:
“I have read no more sympathetic, under-
standing, or delightful dog story than this....
I expected something good from the author of
‘Whiteoaks,’ but I was genuinely surprised at
the quality of this.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
456 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
WESTERN NEW SOUTH WALES ELECTRIC POWER
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1928 of the State of Victoria and
registered as a Foreign Company in the State of New South Wales.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
AN ISSUE OF £700,000 8 PER CENT. FIRST-MORTGAGE
DEBENTURES
Guaranteed by
NORTH BROKEN HILL, LIMITED
BROKEN HILL SOUTH, LIMITED
and
THE ZINC CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Nominal Capital: £750,000 divided into 750,000 shares of £1 each,
of which
500,000 have now been allotted and are paid up to 4/- per share in cash.
DIRECTORS:
The Honorable William Lawrence Baillieu, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor.
Alexander George Campbell, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor.
Lachlan Kenneth Scobie Mackinnon, 120 William Street, Melbourne, Solicitor.
Sir Frank Beaumont Moulden, 16 Currie Street, Adelaide, Solicitor.
Colin Fraser, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Mining Engineer.
Marshal Lawrence Baillieu, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Company Director.
LONDON ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The Right Honorable Sir Robert Stevenson Horne, M.P.
Clive Latham Baillieu.
Godfrey William Wentworth Mackinnon.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
Sir Arthur Robinson, K.C.M.G., 377 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor.
John Turnbull, 120 William Street, Melbourne, Solicitor.
BANKERS:
English, Scottish & Australian Bank, Limited.
SOLICITORS:
Blake & Riggall, 120 William Street, Melbourne.
AUDITORS:
Cook, Tomlins & Mirams, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
E. L j & C. Baillieu, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
360 Collins Street, Melbourne (6th Floor).
The above Debentures are now being offered for subscription at par., payable 50 per cent, on
application and 50 per cent, on allotment.
The Debentures will be issued in denominations of £5O or multiples of £5O as desired.
The Debentures will have a currency of 15 years from the 15th March, 1931, and will carry
interest at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum, payable half yearly.
The Debentures will be registered at the option of the holders either in Melbourne or in London,
and, subject to due notice, may be transferred from one register to the other.
All moneys payable in respect of the debentures, while registered on the Melbourne register, will
be paid free of exchange in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Fremantle. All moneys
payable in respect of the debentures, while registered on the Londoi\ register, will be paid, subject to
exchange, in London, but the Company reserves the right, upon giving due notice, to make payment
of any such moneys in Melbourne.
THE COMPANY:
Promoted by the three associated mining companies, North Broken Hill, Limited, Broken Hill
South, Limited, and the Zinc Corporation, Limited, who are its sole shareholders, the Company was
incorporated on the 25th August, 1930, with the main object of establishing at Broken Hill, in the
State of New South Wales, a central power station for the supply of power to the mines at Broken
Hill, but primarily to the mines of the three shareholding companies.
The power station and its subsidiary works are now in course of erection, the total outlay
involved being estimated at approximately £750,000. The object of the present issue of debentures
is to provide funds for the completion of these works and for the repayment of the advances made
by the three shareholding companies to meet progress payments thereon.
THE SECURITY:
The debentures will be secured by a Trust Deed, which will provide inter alia —
(a) For a specific mortgage in favor of the Trustees for the Debenture holders over certain freehold
lands of the Company upon which the power station is now being erected.
(b) For a floating charge over the general undertaking and property of the Company.
(c) Fop the payment by the Company to a sinking fund for redemption of the debentures of at least
£32,440 per annum until such time as the redemption of the debentures has been provided for.
(d) For a joint and several guarantee by North Broken Hill, Limited, Broken Hill South, Limited,
and the Zinc Corporation, Limited, of the payment by the Company of the principal moneys and
interest secured by the debentures.
UNDERWRITING:
Th«, whole of the debentures have been underwritten free of commission by North Broken Hill,
Limited, Broken Hill South, Limited, and the Zinc Corporation, Limited, and, pursuant to a right
reserved by the Underwriting Agreement, these Companies have intimated their intention of taking
firm £250,000 debentures of the issue. This means that £450,000 debentures only are available for
public subscription.
The subscription list will be opened on the 2nd February, 1931, and will close at 6 p.m. on the
11th February, 1931, but applications sent by post to the registered office of the Company and post-
marked not later than 11th February, 1931, will receive consideration.
This prospectus is an abridged prospectus only and is not in accordance with the provisions of
the Companies Act 1928, but
Copies of the full prospectus, with application forms annexed, may be obtained at the
Head Offices of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd., in Adelaide and Sydney;
or through any member of any recognised Stock Exchange in Australia. Applications
must be made m the form referred to in the Prospectus and annexed thereto.
Applications may be made through members of any recognised Stock Exchange.
A brokerage of One per cent, will be paid on the face value of all Debentures allotted to the
public pursuant to Applications bearing the stamp of any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Renowned Quality
Sports Goods Marked
Down to Absurd Price
Levels!
/ALE /EAJON
Opportunities too
good to pass by!
(4^
A Genuine
30/- Value
“ RENOWN”
Racßet for
16/9
Matchless Tennis Racket value. The
“Renown” is a worthy racket regu-
larly priced at 80/-. Perfectly serves
in every way the beginner, the school-
girl or schoolboy. As a limited
number only are available at this
phenomenal price reduction early
buying is absolutely imperative.
Other Famous Rackets Reduced .
Bancrofts’ “WINNER” Racket,
Blue Throat Model. Usually
80/-. SPECIAL SNAP, 5 7/0
Spaldings’ “TARGET” Racket.
Usually 19/9
SPECIAL SNAP 13/6
English “TEDDINGTON”
Racket. Usually 45/-
SPECIAL SNAP 27/6
Ca/rriage Paid on Tennis Snaps.
SHOOTING
SNAPS
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED, '
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY


Established, 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capita] £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,158
£11,031,260
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
é
ê
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffectcd on all classes of
• Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
1 - Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
,y HAIR,
N £E °
here's
-
• -£
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Reingmber next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCdLvris cm£xican)
UkUrud S-iavn
*REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
ë
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
1840.
Che Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country- residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
Che Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
ē
BRIDGING
&
LINKING CONTINENTS
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti —
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ĕ
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL UNfS
b
r
%
OR
BURNS PHILP TOURS
,THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels. S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PHiLP
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDN ELY, AUSTRALIA
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE YORK HARROGATE EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Cities. These are on the
LONDON AND NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
> BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
sSs
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1980 iv •• £89,228,378
General Manager s ALFRED CHARLES DAA'IDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALT, CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ė
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 41 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians i§ Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
I Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. } joint
.Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. j Afirents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from . £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
m,
ch
TQ
c\9
a
5
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. M 37,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to — _____
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Of to any of the World’s D ending
Advertising Agenoles.


“EOTHEN”
ę
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
nclusive Tariff, £4-4*o
Centra! 528
Mr*. PARKER
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
J)TonS®rsT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ris’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Speeial” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
°n sale at
“The Australasian”
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACII WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too 1
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM tQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
2
m
■
ssssg-
Ml
5®
Hit
lit
mss
(V •
"Cenlralftailway Stn
SrDNFY~ NSW
tfi i
ffife
EXCLUSIVE
'anions
On time
“ CYMA ” watches can be
relied upon to g,et you there
on time. No fear of bein& a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that in case
of accident, any spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing him to &ive you
prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance
“CYMA” watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious.
'The World’s Wonder Watch
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
CYMA
WATCHES
THE
LATEST
CREATION
'Possums and a Bereavement.
IN THIS AMUSING STORY
STEELE RUDD
IS HACK “ON OUR SELECTION
AFTER ’possums out of number had for
years been slaughtered to protect strug-
gling corn-crops, when it wasn’t for the
sheer joy of spilling blood, the skins of the
foolish little animals became valuable. That
is, they became valuable to “industry”; they
had always been valuable to the animals
themselves. “Worth twenty-five shillings a
dozen,” was the news that came to our
district. And exciting news it was, too!
Dave was the first of our family to hear it.
He heard it from Heber, the first telegraph
operator sent to the township. A youngish
sort of fellow Heber was, who operated about
six telegrams a year; and when he wasn’t
operating he was lying on a couch in his
office listening to other operators at work
along the line, or just waiting for his
monthly cheque to come along. And wasn’t
Dave flurried when he was tolling Dad about
it! It wasn’t often Dave got in early with
first-hand news.
“Twenty-five shillings a dozen fer ’possum
skins, fellow?” Dad snorted, looking down on
Dave as if he were reading his head.
“Cripes, it’s right, Dad,” Dave repeated.
“Heber told me, an’ he got it on th’ tele-
graph.”
“Don’t believe all the things Heber tells
you he hears on the telegraph, my son.”
Mother, lifting a batch of bread from the
oven, put in, to help Dave.
“He tells awful lies sometimes,” Sarah,
setting the table for the midday meal,
chirped maliciously, then laughed to herself.
Sarah often heard things from Heber that
ice didn’t hear. Fellows tell lots of things
to girls that they don’t tell to other fellows.
“Pshaw! he’s a blower!” Dad scoffed.
“So were all his family. Twenty-five sliil-
lin’s fer ’possums!”
“A dozen, I said,” Dave corrected.
“Well, a dozen. It don’t make much dif-
ference ; that would be more’n two bob a
head fer th’ dern things. Near as much
as a calf’d be worth these times!”
But Dave was sure of his facts for once.
“All right,” he grinned, “you’s can laugh;
but Heber told it to old Anderson, too, as
well as to me.”
“What?” Dad interrupted. Dad had faith
in old Anderson, whose name carried weight
in the neighborhood.
“An’ he’s goin’ to let his ploughin’ rip,”
Dave went on, “an’ start gettin’ ready to
go snarin’ ’possums an’ skinnin’ them soon
as he got home.”
“Anderson said, did he?”
The cold, pessimistic glare faded from
Dad’s eye, and the frown flitted from his
hairy face like a sunbeam dancing over
the head of a grass-tree.
“Cripes, didn’t he!” Dave warmed up.
“An’ they got to be snared, too; y’ haven’t
got to shoot them or you’ll put holes in th’
skins, an’ th’ blokes in town won’t buy
them. An’ it won’t do to catch ’em with
dorgs, neither, or burn ’em out o’ lorgs!”
“Why, what’ll burnin’ do to ’em?” Dad
mumbled thoughtlessly.
Dave laughed—so did Sarah.
“Wliat’ll burnin’ do?” Dave cheerfully
echoed.
But Dad tactically smothered him. In
debate Dad knew more points than Dave.
He was more experienced. “I knows! I
knows!” he said, “but it must be true enough
if Anderson believed it,” and he looked
thoughtfully at Mother, who was dusting the
batch with a cloth.
“The boy is quite right, Father,” she said,
changing her attitude, and bestowing a
glance of maternal pride upon Dave. “I
knew he would hardly misunderstand what
Heber told him.”
Dave was encouraged.
“An’, by cripes,” he added, “Heber said
a lot more, too, a whole lot about where th’
skins had to be sent, and what they was
made into; but I didn’t wait to hear it all.”
“Of course you didn’t, my sou; you hur-
ried home to tell Father before anyone else
knew. And quite right, too.” This approv-
ingly from Mother.
“A pity y’ didn’t wait,” Dad mused, shak-
ing his head and looking wise as a doctor ;
“but there's a fortune to be made out o’ th’
dern things at that rate.” Then, falling into
meditation, he paced the room with his
hands locked behind his back.
“An’ Heber’s coming here this evenin’,
after he knocks off work,” Dave gushed fur-
ther. -“An’ he’s going to show us how to
make th’ right kind o’ snares.”
“After he knocks off lying down in his
funny little office.” Sarah sniggered.
For some reason Sarah didn’t always
think kindly of Heber.
“W-w-what Avas that I h-h-heard some-
one s-s-say about ’pup-pup-possums an’
11-H-Heber?” Joe, coming late, and running
hot and wet with perspiration after pur-
suing butterflies, asked. “An’ a f-f-fortune
to be m-m-made?”
As no one answered, Joe questioned Dad
direct.
“He can’t be goin’ all over it again just
for you,” Dave answered and contemptuously-
pushed his little brother aside as an intruder.
Joe appealed for information to Mother.
“ ’Possums, my boy, ’possums,” she
answered. “You’ll know more about it
soon.”
“ ’ Pup-pup-possums /” Joe burst into hilar-
ity. “A f-f-fortune in them!”
“Yairs —a fuf-fuf-fuf-fortune,” Dave,
mimicking him, sneered.
“Dave!” Mother rebuked mildly.
“You m-m-might s-s-stutter yourself,
s-s-some day, me n-n-noble!” Joe added.
Then, awakened from his meditation, Dad
bounced round at Dave.
“None o’ thet mimicking!” he bellowed.
“If he have a compediment it ain’t his fault,
ain’t it?”
u “It’s all right, Father,” Mother intervened.
‘Don t get so angry. Dave meant nothing.
And let you all sit down to your dinner —
Sarah has everything ready, and we’re wait-
ing. I don’t know if the carving-knife is
sharp enough for you; but the corned-beef
seemed a little hard when we put it in the
pot to boil.”
I’ll soon put a edge on it,’’ Dad said
proudly, forgetting his anger, “if y’ bring
th’ steel, Ellen,” and took his place at the
table.
Then Mother smiled meaningly at Dave.
* * * *
Later.
The sight of Heber trotting up to the
sliprails astride a borrowed horse brought a
glow of triumph to Dave.
“Here he are!” he shouted. “Didn’t I
tell. y’ he said he’d come ! Cripes, wasn’t
I right ?” Deserting Dad, whom he was
assisting to square a sleeper, he rushed off
to let the rails down.
“It’s him right enough,” Dad, looking up
from the sleeper, admitted to himself. Then,
leaning on the adze-handle, he stood wait-
ing to receive the operator.
The latter rode into the yard like a field-
marshal, while Dave remained behind to
put the rails up again.
“Well, me young man,” Dad began, clear-
ing his throat, as Heber with an arm through
a coil of copper wire scrambled from the
saddle —'“is this noos what Dave’s got about
’possum skins goin’ to be worth 255. a
dozen all right?”
“Oh, right as rain, Mr. Rudd. Smith and
Smith”——•
“If it ain’t any righter than tli’ rain,”
Dad broke in, looking all round at the sky,
“it ain’t too right.”
“Yes, but Smith and Smith and Jones and
1 homas—and you know they’re big firms in
town, Mr. Rudd—are advertising for as
many as they can get at that price; and I
know privately that they’ll be giving a lot
™ ol ’e than that for them in a few months.
1 hey’re exporting them, you know, to make
turs and things for women out of them.”
“Exportin’, are they?” and Dad dropped
the adze and took his waist-strap up a
hole.
“There y’are! Didn’t I tell y’?” Dave,
coming up at a trot, broke in and grinned in
triumph.
“Dern me, then, if I’m goin’ to waste
more o’ my time ploughin’ ground to grow
C u in ,/ or ,em their hides be worth ail
that.” And off Dad went inside to discuss
the project with Mother.
‘‘And I’m going to do a bit at it myself,
Mr. Rudd, after office hours,” Heber called
to him proudly. Though Heber had won a
scholarship, and was fixed in a promising
position, he found the office dull.
“It’s more’n two bob a head,” Dad
mumbled as he walked on. “They’d clear
th’ dern mor’gage off in no time.”
“Now I’ll show you fellows,” Heber said,
starting on the coil of fine wire with a pair
of pliers he took from his pocket, and
nipping it into lengths to convert to snares.
“W-w-where did y’ g-g-get that sort o’
w-w-wire from, Heber?” Joe asked, pouncing
on the length's.
“That’s copper wire, Joe—plenty of it
lying in the office.”
“That’d bn th’ s-s-stuff to put on th’ end
of th’ b-b-bullick-whips for th’ b-b-bullickies
to bring th’ b-b-blood out with,” Joe chuckled
in admiration.
“End o’ bullock-whips?” Dave repeated.
It s going to bring th’ blood out o’ th’ end
of ’possums.” i
Heber looked at Joe, and laughed. Dave
laughed with him.
“I unny, yous are!” Joe said philosophi-
cally.
Presently, when several trial snares were
completed, Heber gave a demonstration.
While he displayed the noose and explained
results, Dave and Joe gaped as though they
were listening to a fortune-teller.
“These we fasten to sticks,” Heber went
on, “then lean the sticks against trees that
the. ’possum track leads past—you know how
their tracks run from one tree to another?”
Dave and Joe nodded.
“And we leave the loop resting edge-
ways on the top side of the stick, so that
when the little beggars scoot up it they’ll
run their heads into it, and take it with
them, till it tightens round their neck and
then”—Heber drew his finger across his
throat, clicked his tongue, and made Joe
laugh—“then in the morning he’ll be hang-
ing under the stick.”
“Sh-sh-shoic us one!” And snatching up
a snare Joe rushed off into the house
with it.
“Cripes !” Dave approved joyously. “We’ll
catch thousands with ’em.”
“There’ll be a ’possum hanging under
every tree every morning you go round,
Dave,” Heber chuckled. “For they always
hop on to anything that’s leaning against a
tree they’re going to run up—that’s ’possum
psychology, if yon know what that means,
Dave? What you call taking the line of
least resistance.”
“Not exactly,” Dave admitted; “but I
know what ’possums themselves is.”
Joe rushed back again.
“I’m g-g-goin’ to m-make one m-m-meself,”
he said, “an’ hang it on th’ cuc-cuc-clothes-
line.”
“Here,” Dave objected, “don’t you go
wastin’ th’ wire that Heber brought—that
ain’t good enough, me shaver!”
“It don’t matter, Dave,” Heber put in;
“there’s plenty more. Besides, Joe might
catch himself in it.”
“At that rate, go on, make one,” Dave
agreed vindictively.
Joe went on. But instead of one he made
two snares and attached both to the clothes-
line near by, with the noose dangling a few
feet above ground. Then, standing off a
pace or two, he mirthfully contemplated his
handiwork. Joe had a cheerful imagination.
And in visualising the execution of ’possums
he sensed nought but comedy.
Suddenly he was seized with an inspira-
tion. Rushing off and stealthily entering
the house again, he returned in a moment
or two carrying Maurice, the old tom-cat.
Maurice w r as one of the family, the pride of
the home and a trained liigh-jumper. Dad
and Sarah had trained him. And as he carried
(Continued on next page.).


SWOLLEN JOINTS
That’s kidney
trouble
c
w
Invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
BACKACHE, LUMBAGO
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of Kidney
and Bladder Trouble
Start taking
De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills NOW.
Your day’s work will
be a pleasure and your
spare time pleasures
will be doubled. No
more sallow, spotted
complexions, no more
sleepless nights, no more
chronic pains in the
joints and muscles, no
more agonising stabs
in the back. Try just
one bottle of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder
Pills and prove this in
your own case. You
will never regret it.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of dreadful rheumatic pains,
chronic pain at night-time when trying to rest, if you find limbs and joints
swollen, knuckles becoming perhaps too hard to move that is, if your blood
is being poisoned with excess of uric acid, this doctor-recommended remedy
will end your pain and suffering and bring back youthful vigour and vitality.
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved infallible
in the relief of rheumatic conditions. They give instant relief, and their
effect can be seen in 24 hours. This we guarantee.
RHEUMATISM
with its terribly agonising day and night pain will be a thing of the past.
Backache, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble will be quickly
banished, never to return, if you will give this remedy a trial. A short
course with De Witt’s Pills, thousands of one-time sufferers will tell you,
will quickly rid your system of pain-giving poisons and make you splendidly
fit and well.
Remember, you purchase your supply of De Witt’s Pills on satisfaction
or money-back conditions. Every chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills at 3/6. Take two of the pills when you go to bed in the
morning you will see and feel their wonderful effect. Persevere, and you
will end crippling pains for good. Do not let rheumatism make your life a
misery, get your supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills now. There
is no need to waste money on unknown preparations, dangerous and heart-
exciting drugs. Go to your chemist and ask his personal opinion of DeWitt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills —the remedy with the prescription printed on the
box. He knows all the ingredients and can tell you they have been combined
specially for the purpose of driving from the body pain-giving poisons, and
to build up vigour, health and vitality.
De WITTS
the aged feline Joe hugged him, pressed
his cheek to his, and affectionately murmured
bribes to him like a politician.
Setting him gently down within measur-
able distance of the clothes-line and opposite
to a dangling snare, Joe stood Maurice
between his knees. Then, crouching over
him and making a high-jump of his two
hands, began intriguing him to take the
leap and loop the loop. The snare hanging
there made the atmosphere seem new and
strange to the old cat, and he rolled his
eyes slowly and moved his tail suspiciously.
“Gug-gug-go on!” Joe urged. “What are
y’ fr-fr-fritent for?”
“Cripes,” Dave chuckled, drawing Heber’s
attention, “look what this bloke’s up to.”
H'eber looked, and stood smiling.
“Gug-gug-go on! over!” And Joe
became impatient. But the old cat thought-
fully licked his lips and turned his head
slowly aside.
I-leber looked slyly at Dave and meaningly
indicated the clothes-prop. Dave, standing
by it, grinned and kicked the foot of it out
of position. Then the prop and the line and
the snares all fell down on top of Joe and
Maurice without giving any warning. But
it gave them both a fright. Maurice must
have thought the end of the cat-world Had
arrived, for with his back up and fur on
end he flew for the shelter of the home.
Entering it without slackening speed, he
scampered excitedly under and over the
furniture. All inside jumped to their feet —
all except Dad. He remained seated on a
low stool, his head down, his back bent,
thinking out the ’possum project. Maurice,
in his undecidedness, took Dad. for part ot
the furniture. He flew on to liis back with
claws in action. Then Dad, too, jumped to
his feet, and while the women made pande-
monium he hit out blindly all round his
head. But he didn’t hit Maurice. Maurice,
as much surprised as he, made a spring-
board of him and landed in the centre of. the
table, then on to the floor again and off into
the bedroom, followed by loud violent lan-
guage from Dad. Then, with Mother and
Sarah and Mrs. Jenkins, who had come to
borrow r some sugar to carry on with till the
morning, and all with mysterious looks on
their faces, he hastened to the back door and
stood staring in the direction of the snare-
makers.
“Th’ bloomin’ cat’s did some damage
inside, me shaver!” Dave, glancing can-
tiously from under his slouch hat, mumbled
in warning to Joe.
Joe started singing as he dragged the
clothes-prop into position again.
Heber, deeming it wise not to take his
eyes off his job, mumbled words to Dave.
Then in a roar Dad’s voice rang across the
yard: “What wer’ th’ matter with th’ dam’
cat?”
Dave waited for Joe to answer, and Joe
waited for Dave.
“Ejh? What wer’ it?” Dad roared further.
“One of you better tell him!” Heber
advised.
“Th’ cat?” Dave, feigning innocence,
shouted back.
“I didn't say th’ dory, did I?” from Dad.
Heber smothered a chuckle. Joe kept on
singing, but a feeling of nervousness took
all the melody out of his voice.
“Oh, they don’t know what it was,
Father!” Mother decided.
“It might ha’ seen a snake, Mr. Rudd —
there’s plenty o’ them brown ones about
now!” Mrs. Jenkins suggested. “An’ I hope
1 don’t see it going home!”
“Whatever it wer’ it sent him mad!’ Dad
concluded, and, rubbing his shoulders, turned
inside again.
“W-w-wonder what h-h-happened?” Joe,
grinning, questioned bravely when the coast
was clear.
“By cripes, young fellow,” Dave broke
out, “you’ll get your head broke one o’ these
fine days if ye ain’t careful! An’ serve yer
darn well right!”
“That’s all we’ll do to-night,” Heber
decided, “and if you have the sticks ready
to-morrow, Dave, we’ll go off and set this
lot of snares when I come along again after
four o’clock.”
“Right,” Dave agreed, “and I’ll put them
away careful till then.”
“An’ I’ll r-r-rig up a b-b-box here near th’
cl-clothes .prop an’ p-put some flour on it,”
Joe chuckled. “An’ you’ll s-s-see if I don t
have th’ f-f-first ’p-p-possum caught before
y’.”
The others ignored him.
Then Heber mounted his borrowed hack
again and rode away.
Daybreak next morning. And wasn’t the
air frosty! Dave, curled up in bed, poked
his head from beneath the blankets and called
to Joe: “Heigh, you, out y’ get —y’ ought to
had enough sleep!”
H'alf-awake, Joe sat up and rubbed his
by cripes,” Dave added, “it’s a
snorter outside this mornin’!” then quickly
covered his head again.
Fully awakened, Joe peered through a
crack in the slabs.
“D-d-dad’s up,” he discovered.
“Oh, I ’eard him.” And Dave drew the
blankets further over his head.
“Th’ gr-gr-ground an’ everythin’ outside's
w-w-white as a sh-sh-slieet,” Joe further dis-
covered. “You cuc-cuc-can’t see th’ wood-
heap fer fr-fr-frost!”
“Don’t want t’,” from Dave.
“Nor m-m-me, neither!”
Joe disappeared beneath the blankets hur-
riedly.
Suddenly the voice of Dad, pitched in
anger, broke on the cold, still air and rever-
berated round the farmstead.
“Cripes! What’s up already?” Tossing
the blankets off, Dave sat up and put his eyes
to a crack. So did Joe again.
Hair-raising language now fairly belched
from Dad.
“He’s r-r-runnin’ this way for s-s-some-
thin’, D-Dave!” Joe said excitedly.
Dave could see Dad was, but was too
concerned and puzzled to speak. To be
attacked in bed by any one Dave had learned
was a disadvantage, and impeded the first
law of nature.
“Cripes,” he gasped, bounding out on to
the cold floor, “where’s me boots and pants (
Joe, of the same mind, hit the floor simul-
taneously with Dave. Grabbing blindly for
his pants he clutched one of the legs ot
Dave’s. Dave clutched the other leg. rsotn
jerked, surprised at the resistance of the
garment.
The voice of Dad thundered nearer.
They both tugged desperately; but Dave s
tug brought Joe across the floor to him like
a fish on a line. , ,
“It’s you!” he choked. Let go! They re
mine y’ got!”
“N-n-no, they’re mine , Dave! Joe, retain-
ing his grip, whined. Then there was a
tug-o’-war. , , ,
“Yer fool!” Dave hissed. “Let go—he s
JICTC
So Dad was. Shoving in the door, he
stood for <x second in the dim light, his head
bared, frost and chaff in his whiskers, glar-
ing at them as they quailed from him in
their shirt-tails and still gripping the dis-
puted pants.
“What th’ devil kind o’ goin’s on is this
y’ been up t’?” he hollered. “Do y’ think
devil’s work is fun to amoose yerselves with?
By th’ Lord” , .
“What’s th’ matter?” Dave, finding his
tongue as he backed against the bed, ven-
tured nervously.
“Father! Father!” came from Mother
and Sarah, who suddenly appeared in their
nightgowns.
“My kangaroo that I wer’ offered five
pound for to be hanged t’ death on th'
clothes-line with, your dam’ ’possum snare!”
Dad hollered on, ignoring the women. “Thai’s
what’s th’ matter, y’ whelps!”
“No! No! Oh, never!” moaned Mother.
“Dead?” from Sarah.
Dave gave a start, and cast a look of
indictment upon his shivering brother.
Then a mighty bellow came from Joe.
“N-n-no, Dad! No!” he blubbered
“J-J-Joko ain’t d-d-dead? He ain’t”
And his voice rose higher than Dad’s. “Dad,
he ain’t!”
Dad never could stand outbursts of family
grief. .
“My God!” he said, and, turning, pushed
Mother and Sarah aside, ran out and back
to the tragedy.
Mother and Sarah followed him to the
back door, and, standing there with clasped
hands and sorrow and bereavement in their
faces, gazed across the yard. Dave and Joe,
unmindful of their naked legs, crept beside
them and gazed too. There stood Dad view-
ing Joko, the old kangaroo. Joko was hang-
ing from the clothes-line by the neck. His
head was in the snare, his tongue out, his
rump on the ground, his toes turned up; the
line dipped with the weight of him, the
prop steadfast.
Another loud, prolonged, mournful wail
from Joe.
“Never mind! Never mind, my poor boy!”
Mother soothed, covering him with her arms
and straining to keep back her own tears.
“It wasn’t you did it —it wasn’t you!”
“N-n-110,” Joe lied between sobs; “it was
th-th -them!”
Twilight.
While a last wind of day
Sets them a-quiver,
Glassing tall river oaks,
Pale gleams a river.
Faint on far timbered heights
Birds are calling,
As o’er the drowsy land
Twilight is falling.
Through ferns and bracken brown,
Homeward going,
Softly upon the wind
Cattle are lowing.
Hawking and questing done,
To some hollow
Where peace and gloom abide
Home flies the swallow.
Gone is all song and shine
From aisle and alley;
Grey grow the sapling tops,
Gloom veils the valley.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Ancestor (1770).
Lass, were your cheek-bones high?
Your eyes
Hazel and dark with a fleck of green?
Skin so fair,
And the auburn hair
Piled like the coronet of a queen?
Lass with the name of an old, old flower,
Burnet-plant of the pasture land,
What did you do when the days were long?
Walk in the fields? Or set the curd?
Sit at the spinnet and sing a song
Or work with a long embroidery strand?
Were you a prim and a proper girl?
Did you look sidew’ays and tease the boys?
Little you guessed that your name would
pass,
Like an immortelle that is shed in the grass,
To the generations that followed you
And scattered to pastures far and new!
Gideon Burnet! Your very name
Lay like a dream on other heads,
Your creamy skin,
And your‘sheeny hair,
And one or two other things I swear—
Such as a love of simple things:
Love of the lambs that lie in the grass,
And the whir of the tiny insects’ wings;
Tenderness for the hurts of earth;
Piety for the hopes of Heaven;
■Oh, grandmother’s grandmother’s grand-
mother !
Such is the lift of a little leaven.
You were a darling, I am sure,
With your hazel eyes and a glint of green
The hasty temper—
The auburn hair,
Piled like the coronet of a queen!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


f>«wi>wywt
i
.
SH
;
■ &' I
1
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Soulli Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, S.MITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
"THE AGE”
Established 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers,
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in thp house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
National Advertisers
Wish to Cover South Austral
e
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register ; the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S.
Thompson, “Lit-
Bar House,” 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 6179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbc Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph’'
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
It 9 up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
il
i?
Health matters! On Health depends youC
physical well being that bright, cheerful,
optimistic outlook on life. But health, happi-
ness, beauty, depend on a clean system. If
poisons linger in your system, trouble starts.
Irritability, languidness, sickness, headaches
soon spoil the wish to enjoy and denote auto-
toxication. Beecham’s Pills do much to keep
your system free from waste and poison.
Purely vegetable they do their work promptly
and thoroughly. To keep smiling and healthy
keep Beecham’s by you.
✓PATENT /
LUS
P!
21
PR
CE
'SELINS
ST
BEECHAMS
PILLS
Worth ct Guinea
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonvi.lie, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek," Mcorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
W G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 3 months from *
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS .....
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
b
(v.
m
&
0°
,1>
•t V*' (S 6
c
A
e
#" # ,s
iv-
• * t . - ' .•’
•''' (V^f c6 °^®'
■ • ■ ot
iiVi


S3SS
-
sssss
I
i
■":
Wm
it*
u« f
l#»
k
'■ .. .
tv'®.
-o-
V*^oe\
&
I !■ 5
iff
■■
85
K
-V,
svgsj
r*f
m
sc**%
&
M3**:
:fes?s
,;
VV
$
5^
&
.*® %-V3f:
«E?
?4
id?
as
>v?s*'
ZZ-g-Es-arVZ
HpfeiS
3fl§fes£a^
28FS
tjjp'T
<a*£
ifes
T.&
S"C
VV
%es
sT’x
mm
J X
«fc.
Ti
2**&
Si. 4 ? 1 '
€■
i>~
rs&L
: -
,«rX{
■ L -\;
Aft
risr
**. * **
highest
SYDNEY 1880 l9 o.
ADELAIDE 1887 **..»£*
KIMBERLEY 189 e 0 SAME °^ lo . ,
Johnnie Walker has by
far the largest sales of
any whisky in the world.
The reason for this is to be
found inside every bottle.
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
Bom
1820-
Still
going
Strong
JOHN WALKER 8f SONS LTD..
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. LONDON and KILMARNOCK
r
w
ft
f
