

BLACK & WHITE
m
•-2&^ va -
Hr 1 * 4
;
'
»- cw .., i •-•>>"- ?- s n /■■ >^>|, '■s ~i
: ■ ■ ; ■ ' "
warn
■
■ d : > ddd
§i:iSiiZ,: : : ', -mm:*
:' 1 ill
>
*■
:■■
wm
: m
i i
iMaH
‘ ;V>r.
■"■ -Xr •> s
. ■
J
Wm lilt Hill
vh#
:'• - ~:...V-.
.
id::
m
- i&i
i*
•- •; •
d
®Ssi®!S !
H
m
m
: .
■d/‘:
v
■is
Kd
■
I
Xo>
d I
d ■.
mm
M
:Mi: d : X?
■1
■d;?d
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
The Bulletin
— IP.S>
Vol. 52.—N0. 2676.
Wednesday, May 27, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


("NUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, <
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ErariTm
ILUm!
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS coupoin
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street y Melbourne .
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
31” Address ****’"
S.B. 131 .7.7.7
ill
n
/
I
mm
/
v*
w
ere
comes
the
Dag e kite
Man
HE is your
guarantee
of long and
unfailing
service . . .
Factory Representative :
JOHN ARNOLD
\O. Box 71, Melbourne
You will see him on every
Oagenite Battery, fit a
Dagenite to your own car
and see how it does its
work, thoroughly, unfalter-
ingly, day and night, year
in year out .. . How it
turns darkness into day-
light . . . makes night
driving safe.
DACENI
BATTERIES
D 1
o u
r't'* 1
♦
♦***
*
t t>*
fs**’
to**
Ro® V»*7
&£»**
A pictorial
guide to
America
FasciNatinc tliis new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. M5O,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
tt DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS It
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
means the end
of Health
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless ills, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to i ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
ing worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
.. ,
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment . ■ • • •
Sold only by
Chemists
or
i
a
m
Jv Tla&vtc 3>''s&L&rLC&,
SiHUJ, s£a#e.
s-S&te&n 7urCc4, /*a&eS fv%
&le 2#rU‘ftj? r
TheAUSTRALASIAN
on salel all states 62
V. » 1 1 Ht— ■ tv
The Red Page
Out Among the He-men
William Hatfield, author of Sheepmates
(Angus and Robertson; 6s), has had
short stories- published in The Bulletin,
and very good things some of them have
been. I am not so sure that he is a novelist,
though I suppose Sheepmates must be called
a novel. It has a theme, implicit in the
title—mateship in the Central Australian
station country. That theme is directly
and convincingly pursued; but those who
insist upon the physical plot which is the
general, and perhaps the right, framework
for a novel may find tiie book disappoint-
ing. My experience was to read up to page
88 wondering when the devil the story was
going to start. About that point I began
to fear that it would start, but by the
time I had reached page 140 I was hoping,
with growing confidence, that it never
would. For the rest of the way I read on
with increasing gratitude to the author ; and
he did not let me down. The first third
of the book is neither good nor necessary.
It depicts a young Englishman; Atherton,
trying to get away from England, managing,
after an abortive attempt, to find a boat,
deserting ship at Adelaide, and getting a
job on Borella station. To me, the first
authentic touch came when, offered tick by
the storekeeper down a bit from Borella,
Atherton did not care to “presume on his
confidence.”
“Presume, bunkum! I run accounts with all
the men out there. If your name’s not good for
a quid or two you’ll be the first, in mv time.
What’s your name?” —opening a book- —“Atherton R.
eh? Now then, whadayawant?”
From that point on there is no question of
authenticity. The writer knows what he is
talking about; knows the men he is writing
about, their soil, and the way they talk a,nd
think. He speaks of men and mateship; of
life that only men lead, of feelings that
only men have, of silences that only men
keep. His book has no sex, but its men are
not mutton. They are, in the expressive
Yankeeism, he. As bush novels, go, it is not
to be compared with, say Tybal Men; but
it is an acreage of the bush, observed by
one who always seems to be an outsider, but
an outsider with eyes of his own:
D. H. Lawrence
It was a different and much more
cally described, but no more authentic,
bush that D. H. Lawrence saw when he was
here. The books in which he framed it are
duly considered in John Middleton Murry’s
Son of Woman (Cape; Roycroft; 14s. 6d.).
Only a mind as sensitive, acute, under-
standing, and full and aware of the work of
Lawrence as Murry’s could have written
Son of Woman. The basis of the life is
Lawrence’s writing, a great part of which
was scarcely disguised autobiography.
“Lawrence had always the need to univer-
salise his own experience.” He' was not a
great artist.
He was a prophet, a psychologist, a philosopher,
what you will-—but, more than any other single
thing, the great life-adventurer of modern times.
He died, “because he .in imagination
endured the deaths of many men,” Murry
concludes his long and beautiful study:—
The evil that you did, is done; and it is evil.
You muddied the spring of living water that flowed
in you more richly than in any man of your time.
In the world of good and evil, wherein men must
struggle for ever while they live, you quenched
the light more often than you kindled it. You
bewildered men who might have learned from you,
betrayed men who would have followed you. We
needed a leader and a. prophet; you were marked
by destiny to be the man ; and you failed us. It
was your destiny to fail us, as it was your destiny
to fsfil yourself. In the measure in which you
failed yourself, you failed your fellow-men.
It was because Murry told Lawrence sub-
stantially that while he was alive that their
friendship, suspended about the middle of
1916, finally broke altogether. But, Murry
adds here:—
Truly you were wonderful among the sons of
men, and you gave the world a gift beyond price:
not a gift of prophecy or wisdom, for truth and
falsehood are mingled to utter confusion in your
work —but the gift of yourself.
Of those books that Lawrence wrote in
Australia, Murry considers The Boy in the
Bush a strangely beautiful one, “largely
because LaEwrence did not have to invent
it.” He would, he says, give much to have
a sight of the manuscript of that collabo-
rated work before Lawrence began to re-
write it. The other, Kangaroo, “has many
passages of great descriptive beauty, but
internally it is chaos.” Son of Woman is
a .penetrating study of an extraordinary
man and his work, so free with excerpts
that it amounts also to an anthology.
A Woman Dresser
One might say that if ever a woman
dresser-down walked the earth it was Law-
rence. Paul Poiret,]
who gives his story I
in My First Fifty 1
Years (Gollancz;
Rovcroft; 145.), is
the great woman
dresser-up. Barely
launched on his tonky career, he had the
satisfaction of seeing the agents tearing his
creations from one another. But those
were agents; and not, “as they are to-day,
an organised association of pirates and
copyists,” forcing on the Parisian ragshops
“the lines of the American mode, which is
always sterile and muttonish.” Apparently
we need another Poiret, of whom people had
“been good enough to say that I have exer-
cised a powerful influence over my age, and
that I have inspired the whole of my genera-
tion.” An egotist? Surely not!
Let me recall to you the positive Revolution in
the art of stage presentation and design that was
effected by the first presentation of “Minaret.” I
don’t know how many performances the play had,
but without any doubt it owed a hundred of them
to me.
Or take his conclusion:—
I will, perhaps, some day write a second volume
of memoirs. But I must beg the reader to excuse
me if, because of a circumstance independent of my
will, it should be less thick than this one.
Than which 1 have never encountered a
more modest ending to any book. Poiret,
when he went to the Quat’ Z’Arts Ball,
wore a costume the train of which was held
up by a hundred half-naked women; and
he would still be going had he not
been grossly received by a clumsy fool who marked
me on the face with a brush full of green paint,
to inform me, in the language of art students, that
1 had passed the age of these rejoicings.
And yet there was a good deal of the he in
Paul. He dressed duchesses, he insulted
millionairesses, he gave parties at which
women found pearl necklaces in their
oyster-shells, he is broke....and Isadora
Duncan danced for him.
New Everyman’s
Another egotist, Rousseau, has just taken
a long overdue place in Everyman’s The
Confessions (unabridged) are in two
volumes, and with excellent print and the
new attractive binding they are gifts at
the Australian price of about 2s. 6d. each.
Other good ones just added to this capital
library of Dent’s are the Constance Garnett
rendering of Dostoevsky’s The Possessed
(two Vols.), with an introduction by Middle-
ton Murry; Donne’s Poems (one. vol.j,
commemorating the tercentenary of his
death (March 31); Mrs. Arm Radcliffe’s
The Mysteries of Vdolpho (two vols.);
George du Maurier’s Trilby; The Autobi-
ography of Richard Baxter, the early Non-
conformist; and Q’s Hetty Wesley. Only a
very pernicketty taste would accuse that
lot of not keeping up the standard.
The Novels
One of the most impressive of the current j
batch of novels is Sheila Kaye-Smith’s The
History of Susan Spray, the Female
Preacher (Cassell; 7s. 6d. net). It is the
wittily-told story of a woman who, as a
child, had seen visions of the Lord, but]
who subsequently allowed the flesh to have
sufficient control to lead her into sexual
experiments with three different men. The
time is the latter three-quarters of the;
nineteenth century, a period that Miss;
Kay e-Smith knows thoroughly well. Susan’s
emergence at the end of her Spiritual ]
bigamy is a spectacle worth having seen
Something even brighter—it is a
devilishlv-clever piece of fiction—is Father,
by the author of Elizabeth and Her German
Garden (Macmillan; 7s. 6d. net). The
writer is the Maoriland woman who became
the later Earl Russell’s third wife in 1916.
She always writes well, and has the rare
gift of weaving laughs into her work.
Father is delicious comedy.
RED PAGE.
Naming the Book
It is, as' most people concede, no light
matter to label a baby to the satisfaction
of all immediately concerned. For my own
part, I would cheerfully undertake to name
a dozen muling and puking .young persons
(belonging to somebody else) rather than
attempt to find a satisfactory label for one
book.
This decision is none the less definite
because newly reached. Infants aside, I had
long nourished the idea that book-naming
was a simple process: simple, that is, in
the case of “objective” books. Fiction was
no personal concern of mine. I marvelled,
it is true, at some of the half-baked titles
under which certain novels appeared, and I
grinned compassionately at a friend who
published an Australian yarn under the
“Family Herald” title of She Loved Much ,
only to discover too late that the name
the gods desired was Sister Woman. I
knew that Dickens had struggled for
months before he arrived at a Tale of Two
(Sties, and that Treasure Island narrowly
escaped appearing as The Sea-Cook. After
all, though, it seemed to me that the
(Red Page continued on -page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING Business integrity.
Anthony
Horderns'
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
The Best
Overcoat Value
We Have Ever Offered
BSi&wS-
*■;:>'• v
SSlssf
SS@ffifi:?V
WfS&' : ■■"
ftT
gs*ss*»ssr>
ssSSjsS*^
Is&Wl
3i£»«*s
isf
?*«
SSwyay
67/6 to 105/- Now
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
Newest Styles and Materials, Faultless Cut
This special purchase enables us to offer these Coats at less than their original
cost. Correct in every detail, the four styles here shown—Single-breasted,
Swing Back Raglans; Double-breasted Raglans; Double-breasted Form Fitting,
with half-belt and inverted pleat at back; Double-breasted semi-fitting seam
and vent will be accepted by the most discriminating. There are 24 different
patterns in English and Australian Tweeds. , .
Prices 67 / 6 to 105 /'
Anthony Horderns’ Special Purchase Sale Price 45/*
Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage on Men’s Coats.
'Phoiie: M 2401
Day and Night.
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Mr. JIM
GERALD
before he
cured his
cold with
Heenzo.
HEENZO costs 2f-
Makes a family supply
of the best Cough and
’Flu remedy , and
SAVES £’s,


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Contra-
ception, by Marie C. Stopes, 22/4; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science
of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 : Radiant Motherhood,
by Marie Stopes 7/10; Sex and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—
The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; Parenthood—A Manual of Birth Control, 3/2; The
Sex Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by
Howard, 7/-; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/3; Cocktails and How to Mix Thiem,
3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; .Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4;
The Letter Writers’ Handbook, 5/10; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4;
Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.,
3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How
to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, 1/5 ; Foulsham’s Best
Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table Rapping, 2/6;
Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading
Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward
Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How Shall I Word It? 2/8; The New
Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/5; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/9; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing
for Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2; Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L.
Savage, 1/6; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/2; What to Draw and How to
Draw It, 4/10; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Hand-
book, by Edward T. Brown, 5/5; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Polishes and Stains
for Woods, 2/6; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/1;
EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC
A Complete Guide for the Amateur to all Constructive and Decorative Work,
including—
CARPENTRY
JOINERY
TURNING
PAINTING
GLAZING
METAL WORKING
UPHOLSTERY
FRENCH POLISHING
PICTURE FRAMING
FRETWORK
VENEERING
PLUMBING
WOOD CARVING
PAPER HANGING
PLASTERING
GRAINING
STAINING
MASONRY
PRICE 8/2 Post Free.
Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Double-bed Dialogues (very special), 1/2; Modern
Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley's 20th Century Recipes, 21/-; Napoleon’s Book
of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1;
Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Bell’s Acrostic
Dictionary for crossword puzzles, 5/5; Nuttall’s Standard Dictionary, 12/6; Dictionary of Quota-
tions (Wood), 15/-; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/6; Profit and Discount Tables (Ody
Rooks), 9/8; Fruitgrowing Under Irrigation—Australian practice—Arndt), 11/-; Universal Trade
Reckoner, 4/3 ; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2 ; Sex and Disease
(Storer) —every young man should have this book, 7/9; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Housepainting, Decorating and Paperhanging, the best book on color mixing
and painting methods published, 13/9; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; All About
Photography, 4/1; Enquire Within Upon Everything, 4/4; The Wrinkle Book, How to Keep
Looking Young, by Elinor Glyn, 2/6; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6; Marks’ Timber Ready
Reckoner, 2/2; Long’s Book of the Pig—Special Price —7/6; Storage Batteries Simplified, Page
—Special Price —6/-; Motor Cycling, by Wyatt-—Special Price —2/-; Automobile and Radio
Batteries, by Cross, 5/3; Evening News Book of Gardening, 2/8; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy
Lake, 5/4; Pruning, by Dept, of Agriculture, 3/3 ; Proverbs and Maxims, 1/8; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2 ; Wisdcn’s Cricketers’ Almanac for 1931, 9/2 ; Fortune
Telling by Tea-leaves, 1/9; Diesel Engine, by Jones —Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and
Clairvoyance, 5/3; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/8; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2;
Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; The Art of Boxing, by Jimmy Wilde, 1/8; Everybody’s Pocket
Encyclopaedia, 1/8. Hypnotism Made Practical, by J. Louis Orton, 3/11.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
naming of novels was more or less a par-
ticular problem, and one not necessarily
associated with (let us say) books of veise
or nature essays. I wondered, therefore,
v'hv so many poets and near-poets were
content with bald titles instead of striving
to follow the brilliant example of Hugh
McCrae, whose Satyrs and Sunlight has
always impressed me as the most aptly-
agreeable title ever achieved for an Aus-
tralian book of verse. I wondered also,
turning to literary excursions in natural
history, why W. H. Hudson, in a preface to
one of his later books, mourned so loudly
because Ray Lankester beat him to
Diversions of a Naturalist , thus forcing him,
“in sheer desperation,” as he said, to adopt
The Book of a Naturalist, a title which
admittedly “would fit any work on natural
history ever published.”
Pish! said I. Do not the earth, the sea,
the sky and the trees and birds offer
phrases a-plenty? And are there not many
lines in any broad-based book of verse that
may be adapted by a man who writes of
the good green earth? I had suffered no
travail on this score myself. Mateship with
Birds evolved itself from Lawson’s “Bard
of Furthest Out,” which appeared in The
Bulletin 20 years ago and has not, I think,
been reprinted.
And mateship is a thing that you
Must take for granted there.
I still consider that title suited well
enough a book dealing with birds of the
Australian inland, even though sundry Eng-
lish reviewers frowned lightly on that word
“mateship.” As to Birds and Green Places,
that title also came of its own accord, and
quite readily. A fragment of memory sug-
gested it (after publication) to be associated
with the death of Hudson. I had a vague
idea that it was contained in Prime Minister
Baldwin’s panegyric over the Rima
memorial, and put the point to my English
publisher, who was also Hudson’s chief pub-
lisher. Mr. Dent was uncertain. Then,
just a few weeks ago, I came upon an
English nature essay which began with the
legend on Hudson’s gravestone: “He loved
birds and green places and the wind on the
heath, and saw the brightness of the skirts
of God!” Last Leaves from Dunk Island
occasioned me a little brow-furrowing,
partly (perhaps) because the book was not
my own and partly because it was one of
a series from a restricted area. Banfield
himself had left no suggestion of a title
for his half-formed volume, but his capable
little widow made no doubt of the aptness
of the name when it was submitted.
Frankly, I got the idea through chancing
to glance again at Walter Murdoch’s 20-
year-old booklet of essays, Loose Leaves.
Possibly I should have taken warning
from the slight difficulty in the Dunk
Island case—should have realised that it
is one thing to name a rambling nature
book and quite another thing to find a title
for one dealing with a single area. Anyway,
the fact is that, noting that sundry English
critics had commented on the wide sweep
of Birds and Green Places, I conceived a
desire to prove it possible to produce a
bookful of fascinating birds and plants from
one restricted region of Australia, and that
containing a city. As the desire grew, I
wanted to show that Sydney is in its way
the most novel city in the world, not only
in the distribution of its population but by
reason of the fact that the Bush persists
against the competition of a million people,
and that remarkable birds and plants, in wide
variety, virtually hold their own after 140
years of settlement. I wanted to indicate
that this genially-odd state of affairs is
directly due to the chaos of two hundred
million years ago, when the picturesque
Hawkesbury sandstone was laid down and
the Wianamatta lagoon that is now the
pastoral plains of Parramatta was created.
All this has been done. The book, lit by
80 or so illustrations, is now being printed
in England. But even at this late hour it
lacks a title.
In point of fact, the search for that
unborn baby is the chief distraction of
several bookmen in Sydney at the moment.
The MS. went away under the provisional
title of The Region of the Cave-bird, the
rock-warbler, or cave-bird, being a denizen
of the Hawkesbury sandstone and nowhere
else. A solicitous bookseller objected to
that phrase as unattractive, and, being
invited to furnish something better, fell
upon the project with confident gusto. It
seemed so easy. That night the book-selling
mountain labored and—brought forth a
mouse. And so it has been with half a
dozen other bookish people. Each has
approached the task with the jauntiness of
a crossword-puzzle addict, and, his or her
effort being scouted, has stolen away to
try out the catch on some inoffensive
acquaintance, quite in the manner of “That
man’s father was my father’s son.” Each
has displayed remarkable capacity for find-
ing weaknesses in the other fellow’s sugges-
tions, but rather less for admitting his own
failure. A Macquarie-street doctor seemed
wounded to the soul when his Look Around
You was promptly discarded. A resolute
journalist stipulated after the sixth attempt
that if his efforts were to be rejected with
contumely it should at least be “respectful
contumely”! A literary lecturer protested
that he would have readily discovered a
sound title if he had not previously been
encumbered with earlier suggestions. “Put
’em out of your mind,” said I. “Ah,” he
chimed, “the whisky would cost too much.”
So there it is. My literary friends, who
all imagined a book-title to be easy ot
acquisition, have let me down. So have
Shakspeare and Keats. So have Kendall and
Daley. I have let myself down. Obviously
.enough, I shall have to follow the method
of old Sam Johnson, who, when asked by
Reynolds whence came the title of “The
Rambler,” made this forthright pronounce-
ment: “What must be done, sir, will be
done. When I was to begin publishing that
paper I was at a loss how to name it. I
sat down at night upon my bedside and
resolved that I would not go to sleep till
I had fixed its title. 'The Rambler’ seemed
the best that occurred, and I took it.”
A. H. CHISHOLM.
A Satchel of Books
W. Graeme Holder’s The Decker (Bodley
Head; 7s. 6d. net) is an attempt to inter-
pret Maoriland in terms of Edgar Wallace.
“Who is this Decker?” a man asks in the
Ingarihi Club, Auckland, and the answer
is, a mysterious criminal who always sends
playing-cards through the post to his pros-
pective victims. Sir Peter Brace is the
chief character, and all who have foregath-
ered with newly-created Iv.B.E.’s will recog-
nise the type. The exciting situations are
almost as numerous as the words in italics.
The Three Brothers, by Edwin Muir
(Heinemann). This is a starkly realistic
tale of religious conflict in Fife when John
Knox was terrifying his congregations, and
Catholics and Calvinists were killing one
another for the glory of God. Religion ruins
the happiness of two of the Blackadder
brothers. Archie, the third, rejects it, takes
what life has to offer, and is relatively
happy. However, Mr. Muir is no cynic: the
father’s words to Davie, the most likeable
of the brothers, probably express his philo-
sophy :
“You canna prove that God exists, or that your
soul is immortal. But there’s faith, Davie, and
that’s no trifle; it’s all there is. You, can believe
and hope; and be advised by me, it’s the best thing
you can do. So have some faith in life and some
hope for the next life. And dinna expect to get
past that—to get any certainty about it; you’ll
never get it, and you’ll just batter yourself to pieces
trying.”
A fine book of its gloomy kind, written with-
out bigotry and with a historian’s knowledge
of the period.
King’s Treasures.-^' The latest additions to
this handy junior library of Dent’s include
Beaumont and Fletcher’s Knight of the
Burning Pestle; Classroom, Plays from
Great Ncfvcls, [adapted iby Dora JMlom
from Dickens, Lord Lytton, Mrs. Gaskell
and Charles Kingsley; An Intermediate
Poetry Book; Sheridan’s The Critic; Poems
Selected from Drayton, Campion and Jon-
son; More Modern Prose (anthology) ; and
Q’s Harry Revel. Net Is. 4d. each.
The Diplomatist, by Jules Cambon (Philip
Allan; 7s. 6d. net). A simple handbook on
the diplomacy art by one who was French
Ambassador at Berlin in 1914. Apparently
lie is still the perfect diplomat; at any rate,
he doesn’t give any important secrets away.
Victoriana: A Symposium of Victorian
Wisdom, edited by Margaret Barton and
Osbert Sitwell (Duckworth; Roycroft;
9s. 6d.) The intent of this selection of ex-
cerpts from Ruskin, sundry newspapers and
other commentators on the Victorian scene
is claimed not to be to hold the period up
to ridicule. If they are honest about that,
the editors have done a poor job. The book
does hold the period, up to ridicule more
often than not, and it can be enjoyed for
the way it does so. It is another sort of
joke that easily the best thing between its
covers is the work of a surviving Victorian
—a frontispiece, by Max Beerbohm, of Sit-
well watching the victim generation step by.
And a Little Verse
WINTER FIRES.
When I knew that the swallow had turned,
That the light of the year was broken,
That the stranger trees were burned
In the thought that the wind had spoken,;
I said “It is resting time,
The snake in the ground is hidden;
And love will not be bidden
To the feast of a summer rhyme.”
I heard in the bleakness of night
A river of air flowing,
Leaves that were ready for flight
In a great whisper blowing:
When it came for the seventh time
I said to the candle burning:
“Dear love will not be returning;
It has grown too cold for a rhyme.”
Morning came with a flight
Of shivering and hungry sparrows,
Shot after by silver light
In a shower of ice-barbed arrows.
I said “I am wise in time,
I will neither laugh nor sorrow;
For love comes not to-morrow
Through the haunted ivy of rhyme.”
Chatter of idle rain,
Gurgling from roof and spouting—
Did one tap on the pane
With a hand timid and doubting?
When I heard it the seventh time
I said “The vine is fretting
For the sun of a crimson setting
And love in a golden rhyme.
“I will look forth and be wise,
Open the door to the sorrow
Of the grey cloud that lies
Over the thought of to-morrow
In the front of the winter-time.
There will be none waiting;
For the faded day has no mating
With love in the sweets of rhyme.”
One came wet with. the rain.
Lips laughing red at the weather.
Brown swallow, fly sunward again
With a wind-shaken feather!
I said “It is blossoming-time, *
The summer is here, for the taking,
The warm airs will’blow at the making
Of love into garlands of rhyme.”
I heard in the sweetness of night
Great rivers of air flowing,
Leaves in the madness of flight
Dancing and blowing;
And I knew the green beakers of time
In the darkness were silently filling
With ravishments meant for the spilling
O’er love that is mistress of rhyme.
DACID MCKEE-WRIGHT
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (exoept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittedj
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W. Breach: All right, Edmond was wrong
—the Israelites have not gone. Frankly, we don’t
care which way it is W. 11.: Good work; but
moves stiffly in some of its joints Groper: Doesn’t
follow that things are unsuitable because we don’t
buy them. The supply can be larger than the
demand... .G.M.: Don’t care for “the madcap wan-
derings of thine ifianly mind, confised”... .D.A.B. :
On that sample, the initials don’t stand for dabster.
J.R.H.: Concentrate on one idea and make a
job of it. Every one of the latest batch has a
gleam in it, but gleams treated like that turn to
fire M.M.: An idea in the sisters, but the thought
of ladies built of bricks and mortar is too much, even
for the office misanthropist... .F.McC.: Would have
to say something startlingly new L.H.S.: “The
Dole’’ is certainly doleful S.W.M.: What we want
to know is, who had the hide to shift Bourke to
Central Australia? T.S.L.: Has moments; but
that’s a wrecking rhyme scheme N.A.H.: Any
particular reason why the Digger should die in the
Oswald Pryor language? F.E.Y.: Well off this
track.... A.H.1.: “The Fighter” knocked himself
out shadow-sparring M.N.A.: Musical as a cart-
load of turnips W.J.S.: Another rebuff for “The
Hawker”.—H.H.: Doesn’t get there, but thank
you for the thought... .Naim: Wonderful trans-
parency in—
The banks are safe the money is round
The notes are square, and printed.
If you were square as I am round
The redeemer, and the gold ring
Your tails are down, and heads I win.
....A.V.: The intent is, unfortunately, the best part
of it....5.M.: Chief trouble with the song in praise
of bowls is that that chap didn’t play it. He
played skittles.... Oan: One phrase describes it—
“an absolute frost” G.S.C.: Judging by the
quality of “Over the Hills,” that is probably where
the earlier verse is C.H.S.: A review of Middle-
ton Murry’s book on the same chap beat your effort
to the printer... .S.A.E.: True enough, brother; but
that doesn’t make it a poem Mem: A very sad
effort... .M.Z.: Needs a great deal more humor to
carry that sort of stuff Mac: An idea, but you’d
have to put a lot more work into it.... Raff: Neither
sound enough for this market, though you might
find a buyer 8.T.: “The Greatest Lover” has
some very good moments, but he has ’em in a
difficult metre that would be hard to correct where
it gets shaky... .D.W.: “Autumn Moonrfse” doesn’t
illuminate the modestly shrinking idea R.G.P.:
You have some talent, but on those specimens not
much to use it on G.M. (Lond.) : Sorry; this
address got sick and tired of the castigating of
Australian literature long ago. Next time you see
Milne and Priestley, ask them if they have read
Collins, M. Barnard Eldershaw, “Haxby’s Circus,”
“Working Bullocks,” the stories in a Christmas num-
ber of The Bulletin, etc., etc. If you don’t find
them blank you can have a free bun at Lyons’ at
The Bulletin’s expense W.F.: About as. convinc-
ing as the word of Mr. Lang... .C.E.8.L.: Only
certain sorts of stories are best told in verse; anec-
dotes are not among ’em... .B.B.: What is your
idea in having some stanzas rhymed and some un-
rhymed? Poets have done it, but rarely without an
artistic reason Cynics: “When night lies dark on
dark eyes dumb with sorrow,” it’s good-bye to any
chance of turning ’em into a talkie Max: Good
as an auction-yard retort; that’s a 11... .N.M.0.:
Case of “Dust” to ashes.... Brutus: Returning unto
Brutus those things that are his.... Exeter: So much
promise in the early line, “And in the silence, love
you spat,” that the end was quite disappointing.
... .R.C.: Buried the dawg with fitting solemnity....
R.A.D.: Tomfoolery... .G. 8.: Stopped at the start-
ing-gate... .H. A.G.: “Old Sam” is an unexciting
veteran.... J.S.: Unacceptable... .Bellerive: It is
good:—
A FAMOUS SCOTCH WRESTLER.
Though of powerful build,
As quick as a cat
Was Donald Dinnie—
Of the wrestling mat.
He’s rival was Miller,
And they’d evoketh cheers
From the excited fans
Of bygone years.
{Next: An episode of the hunt, entitled,
“The Notorious Flea.”)
... .G.G.A.C.: The pudding you offer is a great deal
too solid for present tastes.. .Nameless: “The Golden
Nevermore” holds nothing but buck quartz....
F.W.M.: Not' much use your trying to follow in
W. H. Olgilvie’s footsteps Crispie: Sorry, but
with some hundreds of Australian journalists out
of work and struggling for a crust, the fight to get
into The Bulletin is now very tough. And even
The Bulletin isn’t able to buy what it could in
the flush days. M.C.K.: Proposal declined....
T. 8.: If you had ever been in a police court you’d
have never written that yarn.... J.W.8.: Syd-
ney was responsible for Lang, but don’t blame it
for your story....F.U.; Didn’t care for it.... J.S.J.:
Still churning ’em 0ut!.... J.E.8.; Not bad; try
again.... E.P.M.; Forced humor..R.K.G.: “The
Worm Returns” —so does the MS W. 8.: Nothing
much wrong with it, but it’s not in our line....
F.1.M.: Want something with more body in it-
F.L.E.: Thank you. Apart from the incidental com-
pliments, your vivid pen-picture makes us regret
that we weren’t there with a camera... .N.E.N.:
Spoilt by the p10t... . W.M.: Why? We wondered,
t 00... .R.S.R.; You’ve taken an acre to raise one
grain.... M.C.: Get scores of screeds like yours....
T. 0.5.: The darkest corner of the dungeon is
reserved for the dream story.... D.H.: Don’t try to
squeeze four tales into one... .0.K.5.: Pretty well
handled, but there’s not enough punch in it
T.E.D.: It’s not a story.... G.W.: Rambles too much.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.: They’re not kookaburras, whatever else they
may be... .W.A.E.: Drew it unassisted? Well, no
one would want to share the guilt... .D.M.F.:
Wobbly outlines... .J.D.8.: An old ’un....F.H.:
Art is not one of your assets... .T. 5.8.: You’re a
better prophet than artist.... W.C.M.: Crashed
at the first fence C. J.C.: Lots of caddies have
whistled that tune F.C.: By no means hopeless.
. ...G.E.1.: Heavy-handed... .T.M.P.: Neither would
fetch a cigarette-card in the open market... .F.M.C.:
Poorly presented. .. .T.H.: Did you carve it out of
dough?. . . .F.V.: Much better than most first attempts
... .D.M.: Not quite.... J.H.: Didn’t want the cave-
man .... T. M.: Improving.


9
FAMOUS
PORT
mm
m.
. -
1 p *■ p
Hi
L.
is
ifi(il
n
PI
i
HU
HI
■
sm
y ■>
1 :
ii
H
■
Si
Wj&
w 6
H
m
R
V
illEK
.
;
■
I
mmM
:
■
- ■ J?
' IBHH
HI
•IIP®
sm
i i


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2676.
May 27, 1931.
"WHAT DID YOU DO 114 THE GREAT DEPRESSION DADDY t
tf yf
DO? WHATDEUBO? x cabrieb my boor mutt superior officer!
“EXCELSIOR!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 252111 B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
MR. LANG AND SIR PHILIP
GAME.
John Thomas Lang is no longer merely a
sore upon the body of his State; he is a
disease afflicting the whole Commonwealth.
Australia’s greatest present need is confi-
dence. Unless we can get others to trust
us we shall inevitably crash. During the
past two years we have not had that confi-
dence, and have therefore not dared to go
upon the overseas market for money. Yet
we have not had the courage to reduce our
expenditure and live within our means, so
our floating debt has piled up from
£5,500,000 at June 30, 1929, to £53,000,000
at Dec. 31, 1930, and will be £57,000,000 by
the end of June. This additional millions
is money which has been picked up whei'-
ever Governments could grab it. At the
end of February, when the total was
millions, 302 millions of it had been squeezed
out of the Commonwealth Bank and all or
nearly all of the rest out of other banks.
Practically the entire 55|- millions was money
belonging to depositors; and the suspension
of the State Savings Bank the other day was
the direct consequence of the failure of the
Lang Government in N. S. Wales to pay
principal and interest overdue on some of
this money.
It seems incredible that we should go
on piling up this kind of debt beyond 57
millions —debt which is not represented by
one penn’orth of interest-earning assets.
But if we pursue our present course, what
else can happen? For the current year our
expenditure, Commonwealth and States, and
apart from loan undertakings, will be
24 millions more than our revenue. That
money must be got from somewhere.
Deficits don’t just happen: you can’t have
a deficit without either leaving debts unpaid
or borrowing to pay them. Where is the
money to come from to pay the balance of
this year’s 24 millions? And for next year
the outlook is far worse. Taxation receipts
will fall to pieces; income-tax returns will
shrink at least one-third, and that alone
will mean eight millions less to spend.
Unless a complete change occurs in Aus-
tralian policy we may look forward there-
fore to further large deficits next year —
further large demands, that is, for tempo-
rary accommodation. Where are we to
get it?
And our troubles do not end there. Apart
from the 55i millions of depositors’ money
and other funds which Governments have
squeezed out of the banks, we have 156
millions of loan money falling due in the
next two years: fortunately only 13 millions
of it falls due overseas, and all of that is
N. S. Wales debt. We have not the faintest
hope of paying off any of it; as we have
seen, wd are 24 millions short of even paying
ordinary expenses this year. A tiny frag-
ment of the debt—five millions out of a
total of 213 millions—will be due in London
on June 30, and we have been at our wits’
end searching for a way to pay it. In utter
desperation the Government proposed
to Parliament that the law which provides
for a 25 per cent, holding of gold against
our currency should be amended so that we
might send away five millions of our poor
little gold reserves to London. What is to
happen to the other 208 millions of debt
falling due within the next two years
nobody knows, and for the moment appa-
rently nobody cares. If, however, we sent
away every ounce of gold we have we
should still owe 36 millions of principal in
London during the next two years, in addi-
tion to 70 millions of interest (52 millions,
plus exchange). We may be able to pro-
vide the interest; as for paying off any of
the principal it is obviously out of the ques-
tion. .
These are the circumstances, calling most
urgently for the cultivation of confidence
and trust in Australia, under which John
Thomas Lang sets out wrecking confidence
and smashing credit. On Feb. 3 he pro-
posed to his colleagues on the Loan Council
that no further interest be paid to British
bondholders “until Britain has dealt with
Australian overseas debt in the same
manner as she settled her own foreign debt
with America”; that “in Australia interest
on all Government borrowings be reduced
to 3 per cent.”; and that the gold standard
be abolished. Failing to get even one of
his colleagues of the other States to support
him in his flagrant dishonesty, he declared
that his own State, so far as it could, would
put these things into practice. And it
did: on its behalf Lang not only defaulted
in interest payments to London, but con-
temptuously told the Commonwealth Trea-
surer, who offered assistance, that if he
had money to spare he, Lang, could find
far better uses for it than in paying the
British creditor. Meantime, however, he
did pay the American creditor. Already he
had shaken faith in the State Savings Bank:
his threat to reduce interest on all Govern-
ment borrowings in Australia to 3 per
cent., combined with his actual failure to
pay even 3 per cent., destroyed what little
was left of it, and the bank had to close
its doors. Unable to get any more money
in that quarter he turns now to the in-
surance offices, and under a cloak of trans-
parent hypocrisy seeks to grab enough of
their funds to carry him on for another six
months perhaps. More than one-half of the
offices affected are British.
But while he proceeds on this career of
wreckage and spoliation he is well-nigh
impotent in Parliament, outside purely
taxation bills. He can smash the State
Savings Bank and impose incredible hard-
ships upon the depositors; he can threaten
the stability of other banks; he can by
his proposals to the Loan Council and his
own defaults and dishonesties destroy all
confidence in Australia, and yet he is not in
a position to pass a scrap of ordinaiy legis-
lation. Why? If it is a right thing that
John Thomas Lang should have the power
to wreck Australia, surely he ought to have
the power to pass a few ordinary bills. To
deny him the dozen or 20 or even 50
members necessary for him to carry his
measures through the Leg. Council while
not challenging his right to ruin Australia
is not only illogical, it is absurd. There are
two courses open to the Governor and only
two. Either Mr. Lang has a mandate from
the people to do whatever pleases him—
to default in his payments to Britain, to
“stale down” interest payments to local
bondholders and, incidentally, to smash
the Savings Bank and pauperise depositors—
or he has not. If he has that mandate,
the Governor is wrong in denying him as
many new Councillors as he needs to carry
out his ideas. If he has not that mandate,
then the Governor is taking an awful re-
sponsibility in permitting him to proceed
upon his course of destruction. For the
responsibility is.wholly his. No matter what
damage Lang is doing to Australia, no
matter though he threatens to destroy the
last vestige of overseas trust in Australia,
there is no authority in any other State
to exercise the least control over him.
Further, apart from the Governor, there is
no authority within the State to compel
him to go to the people for the purpose of
testing his claim to a mandate.
It is said that the powers of the Governor
are ill-defined. The way to get them de-
fined is to test them. Whatever else is
obscure it is quite clear that part of his
job is to watch over British interests; and
whether he is watching over British inter-
ests when he permits British investments
in Australian Government stocks to be
imperilled is a matter for himself to answer.
Those stocks have been made trustee securi-
ties under British law; and that fact alone
seems to be a sufficient reason why they
should be preserved from attack. Instead,
however, of so preserving them, his Excel-
lency maintains in office the man who leads
the attack. To what extent his Excellency
is therefore responsible for the attack upon
British interests, his Excellency must also
answer for himself.
Admittedly some chances must be taken in
sending Ministers to the people against their
own advice. But the question is whether
it is not worth while. At the worst Sir
Philip Game can be recalled. But is it not
better even to be recalled than to retain
office by refusing to send to the people, for
their approval or disapproval, a chief Minis-
ter and Treasurer who has deliberately
defaulted on his payments to British credit-
ors while finding the money for those of
another nation?
RE-OPEN THAT BANK!
It is a monstrous thing that the State
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales should be
closed week after week, and that it should
be calmly proposed to keep it closed until
the end of the year. It is true that, mean-
time, depositors may draw up to £3 per
week of their own money; but even that
much is not possible until the depositor has
signed a declaration that he is in a state
of dire necessity. Nearly 40 years ago
private banks came to grief all over Aus-
tralia; but not a single case can be dis-
covered in which the noses of small de-
positors were so violently rubbed in the dirt.
Yet the blame does not lie with the Com-
monwealth Bank, which is making these
compassionate payments. Obviously that
bank dare not make payments in the ordi-
nary way until it has protected its own
depositors against direct losses and against
further raids by the Treasury. The position
is not quite so simple as it looks. It is
not merely a question of saying, “Here are
£70,000,000 of deposits. We will undertake
to pay them out.” The Commonwealth
institution cannot undertake to pay one
penny more of deposits than are represented
by assets. The money the depositors lodged
is money no longer. So far as the Savings
Department is concerned it was represented
on June 30, 1930, by investments of many
kinds: the N.S.W. Government had 29
millions, and had issued funded stock and
debentures as security; there were over 10
millions at the Treasury on deposit; the
Rural Bank had over four millions and the
Advances for Homes Department over 10
millions, much of it very doubtfully
secured; and there were another 10 millions
in loans on mortgage, in Commonwealth
stocks, in loans to municipal councils and
sundries—all this in addition to cash and
bank deposits. Every one of these thou-
sands of assets must be valued before the
Commonwealth Bank can know what it can
afford to pay the depositors of the State
bank. Either that, or it must be satisfac-
torily guaranteed by the Government
against losses on realisation.
And those guarantees must be very sub-
stantial. The N. S. Wales Government
owes the suspended bank in one way and
another over 40 millions—much more than
one-half of the total of deposits. What is
that debt worth? In New York, notwith-
standing Mr. Lang’s partiality for the
American investor, it has been possible to
buy £lOO face value of N. S. Wales 5 per
cents, for £47. If that is a fair price at.
which to appraise the N.S.W. Government’s
indebtedness to the bank—and it is the
appraisement of the largest investment
market in the world—then the 40 millions
must be written down to 19 millions, a loss
of 21 millions. On that basis, if the
depositors are to get 20s. in the £, the State
must come forward with a guarantee of at
least 21 millions. And no prudent banker
would be satisfied with even that; for he
would know that there are risks of heavy
losses in the 15 millions and more which
have been advanced to Rural Bank and
Homes Department borrowers.
If, then, the Commonwealth Bank is to
take over this State bank and pay its
depositors 20s. in the £, it must get from
the N.S.W. Government a guarantee good
for many millions. It was on an unlimited
guarantee that deposits were canvassed for
and accepted; the guarantee was conspicu-
ously repeated and emphasised within a
few days of the closing of the doors. There
can surely be no question about the trans-
fer of this guarantee to paper in such a
form as will satisfy the Commonwealth
Bank. That done, there should be no delay
at all in re-opening the bank. So far as the
Commonwealth Bank is concerned it can
only be a question of being satisfied about
the guarantor; and, even allowing that Mr.
Lang has destroyed every wisp of confi-
dence in the financial undertakings of N. S.
Wales, it ought not to be impossible to
invent a thief-proof bond. With that there
need be no immediate agreed valuation of
the assets. The loss to be made good by
the guarantor would be the loss on the
book value, less the provision for such con-
tingencies made by the bank itself. Such
difficulties as are in the way are not being
reduced by delay. The longer the matter
is hung up the more locked-up deposits
will be hypothecated in some way or other
and the larger the drain upon the bank
when the doors are opened.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Inflation and the Farmer.
This is the best exposition of the farmers’
case for inflation The Bulletin has re-
ceived for months:—
A word from one of the 10,600-odd farmers of
Westralia on the important subject of inflation.
Our production costs in this State are not high
compared with the rest of Australia. Our crush-
ing burden, however, is interest on borrowed money.
Nearly all of us owe large sums on our farms (esti-
mated to be on an average about £2OOO per farm),
and with wheat prices at the present level we can’t
pay the interest:. When we undertook our obliga-
tions, every hundred pounds represented 150 bags of
wheat; to-day it represents 350, with the result
that nearly a thousand of us are working our farms
under trustees and the like, while more are coming
“under control” every day.
As thinking men, we fully realise the evils of
inflation; yet our organisation, the Wheatgrowers’
Union, officially supported the Fiduciary Issue and
the Wheat Bounty Bill. Some degree of inflation
seems to us to be the best method of distributing
the burden, too large a share of which is being
borne by the farmer, though such inflation should
be controlled and temporary.
Suppose the Australian note fell to, say, half its
present value, it would have, from our point of
view, some very decided advantages, viz.:—•
(а) Owing to the high exchange rates, our
interest payments would once again approximate
to the 150 bags of wheat to the £lOO.
(б) Our creditors (whom we regard, in the main,
as co-investors with ourselves in these farming
propositions) would find their equity in our pro-
perties to be again bearing a reasonable proportion
to the value of the farm as a producing business,
and our equity would also have some value, instead
of being at the vanishing point as at present. Thus
we would both suffer equally, instead of the farmer
bearing the whole of the depreciation in land value.
Of course, our working costs would rise, but with
the interest bogey at rest, we would be prepared
to accept, like the rest of the community, a little
less for our labor.
The country would reap the benefits of increased
production and- export. Imported necessities would
become dear; but as all imports have to be paid for
with exported goods or gold, which are not affected
by the value of the pound note, the high prices
would be apparent only, not real, and similarly with
interest payments abroad. —Yours etc., Quandong.
In reply (though necessarily this leaves
much unsaid): —
Admitted at once that the farmer deserves sym-
pathy. He undertook to pay far too much for his
land; and now that he has been caught by the fall
in prices, he can’t continue his payments. He
doesn’t deserve all the sympathy he often expects,
but he deserves a good deal.
The question, though, is whether it is good policy
to burn down a house* to roast a pig. You can no
doubt relieve the farmer of his mortgage by inflation;
the question is whether it is a fair thing for the
farmer to ask for general chaos in order that he
may escape what, after all and to put it quite
plainly, are largely the consequences of his own mis-
judgment.
Inflation robs the creditor for the benefit or appa-
rent benefit of the debtor. Inflation in order to rid
the farmer of half his mortgage debt must also
rob every investor great and small in the country
of half his provision against infirmity and old age.
It would wipe out half the value of every life
assurance policy, of every savings bank deposit, of
every friendly society membership, of every pension.
This seems like burning down a very large house
to bake a very small pig.
Meantime it would throw very many people idle.
No merchant will carry more than a skeleton
stock. Ho cannot afford to do anything else seeing
that under inflation he may have to replace to-day
for ten shillings what he yesterday sold for eight
shillings. For months past in Australia mer-
chants have been buying from hand to mouth, and
manufacturers have been working down their stocks.
This meant skeleton staffs and tens of thousands of
unemployed. The mere danger of inflation was
enough to do this.
The farmer, however, says he will escape disaster.
He will sell for gold and buy for paper. For a
while it is quite possible that he may gain at the
expense of the rest of the community. In other
words, when wheat should be worth 3s. here he
may get 65., the £ Australian being worth only
10s. But he is not going to get that 35., the dif-
ference between 3s. and 6s. With the £ worth
only 10s. the price of everything the farmer buys
will be advanced, until his 6s. is worth no more than
3s. would be with the exchange at par. The
farmer will thus gain only until the workers and
others have caught up to him. And under our
conditions that will not take long.
But, at any rate, it will be argued, the farmer
will be rid of, say, half his mortgage. Something
has already been said of what it will cost the general
community. But there is another point. Does the
farmer think for a moment that he will be made
a present of this money? We shall have to get
back to sound conditions some day: we shall have
either to say that for the future our £ is worth
10s. or to build up our £ again. We shall want a
fund on which to draw for real money, real wealth.
That is when the farmer would hear from the
State. In Germany every farm - was automatically
loaded with a new State mortgage, as a backing for
the new currency, interest to be paid to the State
and put into gold.
The farmer is so indispensable that he must be
kept on the land. He can be sure of that; but
it will depend upon himself whether he will be
regarded as a singularly unfortunate man, entitled
to sympathy and help, or as an extremely selfish
one, prepared to sacrifice the whole Commonwealth
and plunge it into chaos if only he can get a bit
out of the wreck for himself. The Bulletin does
not believe he means to be this kind of man ; but
it is the kind he will be if he gives support to
Theodore’s Fiduciary plan or any other scheme of
inflation.
♦
Threats to Freedom.
During the war Lord Harcourt, a Liberal,
said: “When peace comes we English will
have to begin the fight for freedom all over
again.” The prophecy turned out to be as
correct for Australia as it was for England.
It took us years to get rid of the War Pre-
cautions Act, and after the W. P. Act
Repeal Act went through it was found that
Prime Minister Hughes had managed to pre-
serve most of his old powers. All rulers
go on like that if they get a chance,
whether they call themselves dictators or
democrats—it is the justification of Rous-
seau’s phrase, “Man is born free, and is
everywhere in chains.” They usually
manage it by repeating over and over again
that some high ideal is at stake and will
go west if they aren’t allowed to do prac-
tically what they like. The argument
during the war was that the Empire would
be destroyed if politicians of the Hughes
type were criticised. In Russia the peasants
are producing wheat under slave conditions
in the interests of the Soviet bosses’ Five-
year Plan. Here the yarn is that the
unions are threatened, and can only be
saved by a Trades Hall dictatorship.
At the rate the occupants of some of
Australia’s Labor thrones are going it will
be no time before we are back in war-time
fetters. In some respects we are there
already. The Scullidores are admittedly
doing a good, deal of their effective gov-
erning by regulation, and mean to do
more as opportunity offers. Last week the
Lang Administration issued a regulation
allowing the unlimited slaughter of beautiful
and harmless animals which were near-
ing extinction before the laws protecting
them were passed, and which every
decent Australian wants preserved. Parlia-
ment wasn’t consulted. No notice was
taken of the protests of public bodies, some
of whose spokesmen were Laborites. The
Ministerial czars just went ahead like any
other czars. Now comes the Transport
Bill. It provides for the most fantastic
interferences with liberty in an industry on
which the whole rhythm of a modem com-
munity depends. According to an expert :
There will be complete control by the Govern-
ment, through the Transport Board, of all motor
vehicles used in any trade or business whatsoever,
even to the extent that the vehicles can be seized
without notice. The motor-owner may also be re-
quired to pay mileage or weight charges as pre-
scribed by the board, submit the books of his
business to official inspection, and, if he contravenes
the Act in any way, his vehicle may not only be
seized, but also he may be subjected to very heavy
penalties for any one or more of numerous offences
which the bill defines.
This system of government by officials
without reference to Parliament or the
people isn’t British, and it certainly isn’t
Australian. It is an import from Europe—
and backward Europe at that—where
officials have special rights as against ordi-
nary citizens. Such a system is no more
suited to Australians than life under the
War Precautions Act was, and unionists
are only putting up with it because the wool
has been so effectively pulled over their
eyes by the czars of the Trades Hall.


Party Spirit Wins.
The two wings of the Federal Opposition
took a week to think over the Prime Min-
ister’s offer to turn Parliament into a
non-party conference to consider the bad con-
dition of the country, which is daily growing
worse, and then rejected it. Dr. Page, it is
true, agreed to come in provided the Gov-
ernment undertook “to carry out without
the decisions arrived at by the con-
ference.” To this Mr. Scullin replied that
the Opposition might as well ask the Gov-
ernment to carry out the decisions reached
by the Opposition parties at their meeting
that day. With Mr. Mathews, of Mel-
bourne Ports, a permanent absentee, there
are only 39 Scullinites in both Houses—39
out of 111, excluding the voteless member
for the Northern Territory. Were Dr. Page
leader of a Government in the same posi-
tion he would never go to a conference
bound to accept the decisions of his oppo-
nents; nor would any other man. Besides,
as the Prime Minister pertinently pointed
out, “not one of the great world conferences
would be possible if conditions were laid
down beforehand.”
Mr. Lyons’s reply was a flat refusal to
confer. “We do not think,” he said, “that
a conference of members of Parliament
would assist the financial and economic
position of the country.” And he went on
to demand that preparations should be
made for a general election “at the earliest
possible moment.” Yet this gentleman in
his very first speech as leader of his new
party “urged honorable members not to
attempt to make political capital out of
the situation, but to undertake the task
of national reconstruction as though party
politics were non-existent.” No harm could
have been done at the conference and much
good might have resulted from it; con-
ceivably it might have led to the formation
of an emergency Ministry under Robert
Gibson, chairman of the Commonwealth
Bank. But Mr. Lyons was against it, and
Senator Pearce was against it, and they
prevailed. The Scullidores have done weak
and foolish things, but in this matter the
Labor Prime Minister has established a
moral ascendancy oyer both of them.
4
The Burden of Interest.
General-manager Davidson, of the Bank
of N. S. Wales, has been telling Melbourne
that a reduction of interest would come
with returning confidence. Of course it
would. As The Bulletin has many times
tried to show, all money is worth approxi-
mately the same price at the same moment.
The variations in interest rates are due to
differences in risks taken and the availa-
bility of the money. At this moment,
when some Australian stocks are quoted in
New York at a price to show 11 per cent.,
scores of millions of dollars are available
there at 2 per cent. The difference between
the 2 per cent, and the 11 per cent, is
merely that the 2 per cent, money can be
recovered almost at a moment’s notice—
at the slightest alarm—whereas doubts have
been raised about even the interest on the
11 per cent, money, let alone the principal.
In effect, therefore, the extra charge is a
contribution to an insurance fund for the
protection of the principal.
And private must follow public finance.
A country whose legislators and adminis-
trators have wrecked the trust of the
world in them is bound to be afflicted
with doubts and suspicions regarding almost
every form of private investment. Here
is an inquiry that reaches The Bulletin’s
Service Department at the moment of this
writing, and’is typical of hundreds:—
Fearing financial chaos, and already owning some
depreciated industrial shares and Government bonds,
I am now anxious to put a little money where it
will be in something tangible and not so liable to
be taxed out of existence as other forms of pro-
perty. Is it possible for me to buy metals and
store them away ?
There are thousands who, though they have
not the means to buy ingots of copper and
tin, are doing the same thing in principle.
In disgust at their funds being locked up
in the Savings Bank of N. S. Wales, or
in dread of a like thing happening, they are
“just spending their money.” Private
lenders who have been in business in Aus-
tralia for over 25 years have closed their
books to new loans. Who could expect
cheap .loans in such circumstances?
But the man on the land is afflicted with
something besides high rates of interest.
His burden of principal debt now seems
to him to be overwhelming. No doubt
in thousands of cases and in the light of
present markets, the price he contracted to
pay looks like a lifetime of hopeless toil.
But on all past experience only rare cases
are hopeless. Though we may have talked
a hundred times about the recuperative
powers of our country, we do not easily
realise what those powers actually are. A
30-bushel wheat crop is within the region
of possibility in most districts; and even
at 3s. 6d. a bushel, an average price in
under-average years, you have a £5 ss. crop
in a single year—from land which probably
cost £6. The woolgrower cannot make
quite such a quick recovery; but in five
years many a grazier has been lifted from
apparently hopeless debt to comparative
affluence. The capacity of the sheep for
reproducing her species, and the capacity of
her infant for growing an overcoat for
himself, are truly amazing.
Many a man on the land is flirting with
inflation because he feels that the outlook is
hopeless for him without something of the
sort. It is not hopeless. Confidence is
capable of instantly lifting from him some
of the burden of his interest, and those
quick recoveries for which Australia is so
remarkable can lift from him his burden
of capital debt.
♦
The A.F.A. League’s Future.
The All for Australia League was the
indignant outburst of men—mostly young
men—who love their countiy and realise
that politicians have made a bad mess
of it and threaten to make a worse. They
rushed together moved by a common
impulse; but what to do when they got
together was quite another matter. Appa-
rently a few of them felt that that was
something rather to be ashamed of: here
was a league without a policy! They need
not have been in the least ashamed of that.
What they had done was a perfectly natu-
ral and sincere thing: they had expressed
their feelings, and if they did nothing more
than that it would still be worth while—
they had roused themselves and got the
encouragement of seeing that tens of thou-
sands more had roused themselves in the
same way.
Then the question arose what they should
do with themselves. They had said they
were non-political in the sense that they
invited the companionship of members of
all political parties. And, though it cut
right across modern tendencies, there really
was plenty to do along those lines—just
as Y. Emma has found plenty to do in its
religious sphere without setting up a new
sect. It is not only the Nationalist by
inclination who is in need of regeneration;
the Laborite is equally in need of it.
Both have fallen from grace, the Laborite
more even than the other. And for a
very good reason: the Labor movement has
been far more assailed by a degenerating
movement. The Communists have worked
in upon it, white-anting it, eventually cap-
turing the control of parts of it, and leaving
the majority of adherents helpless—all, of
course, through their own indifference. There
was, then, and still is, a great need for
a virile body of revivalists to stir up the
members of all parties and of no party;
to strive to put politics and especially party
politics on a higher plane; in short, to
spiritualise the whole business of gov-
ernment.
Admittedly it would be very difficult to
keep a large body together to do such work
as, that. But size is not half so important
as zeal. The Communist body of propa-
gandists is a mere handful; even the body
which seized power in Russia under the
direction of those propagandists, and which
imposed Sovietism upon that country of
150 million people, comprised only 300,000
members. Whatever happens to the All
for Australia League, therefore, it will be a
great misfortune if some body is not main-
tained to do the very things which the pro-
jectors of the league aimed at. Whether
the A.F.A. League can now ever do it,
having allied itself with the Nationalists,
is doubtful. One thing and only one can
save it for future non-party work of great
national usefulness: the alliance must be
avowedly temporary, and for a single set
purpose—the overthrow of those who are
willing to repudiate Australian debts, and
the return to power of those who insist
that at whatever sacrifice Australia must
pay its way. But it might be still better
if the league divided itself into two
leagues—one a “revivalist” body, devoted
to non-party propaganda; the other, joining
up with the Nationalists in the salvation of
Australia. The majority of members of
the one could be members of both; but not
all.
+
Things E'ldridge, M.P., Doesn’t Know
About Jesus Christ.
“Sol Malaprop” : Eldridge, one of the Labor
members from N.S.W., made a speech to
the tramwaymen at Adelaide in which he
compared himself with Jesus Christ with-
out claiming any marked superiority:—•
You did not find Christ mixing with the glite.
He was fighting the moneyed interests of His day.
He drove the money-changers from the Temple with
a whip of knotted cords. I say that we are carry-
ing on Christ’s work. We are using a whip of
knotted cords against the financial interests. I am
using it to-day.
There is something grotesque in the situa-
tion when a man with a free first-class rail-
way pass, and a salary of £lOOO a year, and
a proud readiness to clutch a Ministerial
salary of more than twice that amount,
vaunts himself as one who is fighting the
financial interests. He looks more as if he
was a financial interest himself—an unpro-
ductive and useless variety.
As regards the episode at the Temple, it
is worth noting that when the Lord drove
the house-and-land agents and mining sharks
from the premises He didn’t seize any of
their money for personal or political pur-
poses, and the action was quite disinter-
ested. It always was in His case. Even
the widow with the two mites wasn’t
invited to put her money into a dry-rotted
savings bank, nor was she disqualified as
a worker for non-payment of a union levy.
Then concerning the statement that the
Lord was not found “mixing with the elite,”
it may be mentioned that He was himself
the elite in a worldly sense, being the
eldest male descendant of the royal House
of David, and the legitimate King of the
Jews, as fully set out in the first 16 verses of
Matthew, and further specified in writing
by Pilate at the crucifixion. The charge
frequently laid against Him was that He was
on speaking tertns with publicans (an
affluent race of tax-collectors) and. sinners.
No special sin was charged against these
sinners, but evidently they weren’t ortho-
dox according to the rules of the Pharisees’
Union. The theory that the Lord made a
virtue of associating only with the squalidly
poor during His sojourn on earth is a Peck-
sniffism or Uriah-Heepism. People might
be wealthy capitalists like Lang or Theo-
dore or Joseph of Arimathaea, but if that
was the only matter against them, it didn’t
count. Lazarus, who was given a new lease
of life, was affluent according to the stand-
ards of the time, when it was impossible
to be a millionaire with bank or insurance
shares, railways or tramways or telegraphs,
or Government bonds or steamships, because
they weren’t invented. Lazarus had a private
burial vault, a comfortable and hospitable
home, and two desirable sisters, one of
whom is mentioned as having anointed
the feet of the honored guest with oint-
ment valued at 300 pence, an enormous sum
in the days when the Good Samaritan paid
only 2d. for the hotel bill of his wounded
protege.
*
Paying with Paper.
When the duty on matches came up during
the tariff debate in the Reps., and the old
importing gang had mustered in full strength,
Gullett, who had a short run as Minister
for Trade and Customs in the Bruce-Page
Cabinet, said “it is abundantly clear that
it would have paid Australia to have made
available out of the Treasury the wages of
all employees in match factories, and to
have allowed matches to come in duty free.”
There would, however, be a few difficul-
ties in the way. One is that Australia
would find it hard to “make available out
of the Treasury” enough paper currency to
pay the wages of the people who make
matches even if the sum is only £650,000 a
year. Another is that if Australia imported
cheap-labor matches duty free instead of
manufacturing them, it would have to
export the money to pay for them (paper
currency, inflated or otherwise, is worthless
when it comes to paying for imports), and
neither Gullett nor Archdale Parkhill nor
any other of their kind offers to dig up the
necessary gold, or grow the things that
might be sold abroad for gold. And, finally,
the 900 sacked employees would probably
degenerate into drink and dry rot while
hanging round collecting their wages (while
they could get any) as a dole of depreciated
currency.
The incurable Foreign-trader is prepared
to swear that it would be cheaper to close
up any manufacturing industry, including
the making of butter and flour, and import
the goods from cheaper-labor countries even
if we can’t pay for them, and pension off
the local workers with paper money or any
old thing, our reward being the blessings
of Freetrade. But they are a skimpy diet
and purely theoretical on the stomach.
*
Harnessing Silver to Gold.
J. F. Darling’s Empire bank proposal is
not so delightfully simple as the Lang
plan, but is more worthy of attention, being
the work of a banker of many years’ experi-
ence who has made a life-study of currency
questions. ' Darling, like his colleague on
the Midland Bank board, Reginald Mc-
Kenna, holds the view, shared also by Lord
d’Abernon and other eminent financiers,
that the gold standard, which worked fairly
well in pre-war times, needs revision to
suit it to the needs of a world which mort-
gaged so great a proportion of its future
resources during the years 1914-18. Therefore
he advocates bimetallism, but does not fight
the battle of that oft-vanquished cause on
the old battleground. The main argument
of the bimetallists of the last century was
based on fear of a gold famine; but so many
new sources of gold production were
developed in their generation that the- plea
wasn’t a bit convincing. To-day, however,
with the need for currency enormously
increased by reason of the creation of war-
time credits, and with gold production
waning, it has been found necessary to
economise the use of gold in every possible
way, despite which, and despite the legis-
lative fiction that its price is fixed, its
value soars and' the value of other com-
modities depreciates in like ratio. Silver
has shared in the fall, thereby seriously
reducing the purchasing power of countries
such as India and Mexico.
Mr. Darling proposes to set up a com-
bined gold-and-silver standard for the
Empire, implying the free coinage of both
metals. He would make the ratio between
silver and gold 20 to 1. In the past the
ratio has been fixed by countries experi-
menting in bimetallic currencies at 15| or
16 to 1, but in those days standard silver
was 37-40ths fine, whereas since 1920 it has
been only half fine, so that in comparison
with the old standards Darling’s ratio is really
10.8 to 1. The immediate effect of the
adoption of his proposals would be to quad-
ruple the present price of standard silver,
a development which would be received
with loud cheers at Broken Hill and other
silver-and-lead producing centres in this
continent.
It looks like making money out of noth-
ing, but Darling argues that it is merely
a restoration of silver to its proper value.
Since silver prices have always been greatly
influenced by the use of the metal for
currency—a use drastically curtailed of
recent years to help the gold standard—it
becomes, perhaps, merely a matter of finan-
cial relativity. As to the ability of the pro-
posed Empire bank to maintain the new
price of silver there cannot be much doubt.
Conceded the right to pay in silver, or in
currency based as much on silver as on gold,
it can buy silver at any rate it likes to fix,
subject only to the consideration that the
world outside the Empire has a say in the
market. In a way, however, important
though it is, the monetisation of silver is
only a side-line and a recent addition to
Darling’s plan. Its essence is to make a
lot more use of the economic power
inherent in the Empire as the producer of
seven-tenths of the world’s annual gold
production. Instead of a fixed price, as
hitherto, he would give the Empire bank
power to raise its price for both buying
and selling gold.
Darling’s plan, to-day as in the past,
will meet strenuous opposition from the
preponderating section of the financial world
that is wedded to the gold standard. But if
he can get it before the Economic Confer-
ence at Ottawa it should be assured of a
fair examination.
♦
The League and Shanghai.
“Feng-Shui”: The Chinese Government
abolished extra-territoriality as from Jan. 1,
but the corpse still remains on the premises.
British and Celestial plenipotentiaries have
been discussing how to buiy it without an
unduly costly funeral.
In a nationalistic age, of course, extra-
territoriality is an anachronism. It was
bound to go in China, as it has gone in
Japan, Turkey, Siam and other countries.
But a student of international relations
cannot but regret it. In its halcyon days
of complete independence foreign Shanghai
presented the only spectacle on earth of
internationalism in good working order. A
million people, of pretty well every race,
creed, political development and skin color,
lived in amity under the beneficent control
of nothing more imperial than a municipal
council.
In the last 20 years international Shang-
hai’ has seen China proper pass from abso-
lute monarchy or theocracy into alleged
republicanism, slip into civil war, then turn
Communist and now become Fascist—for
that is the real nature of the present dic-
tatorship of Chiang Kai-Shek and others.
The foreign settlement was, of course, not
immune amidst these changes. Members
of Parliament chased each other into the
settlement with knives and pistols, rebel
armies retreated into it and were placed
under arrest by ex-London bobbies, and
mobs demonstrated on behalf of the World
Revolution. Nevertheless, except for the
war years, when it slipped badly on inter-
national ideals by compelling the Chinese
Government to repatriate all Germans, the
huge modem caravanserai, with its fine
streets, skyscraping hotels and antlike
industry, remained such an orderly oasis of
commonsense and decency amidst the sur-
rounding chaos that an epidemic of city-wall
removing broke out all over China, citizens
arguing that Shanghai’s prosperity must be
due to the absence of this feudal incon-
venience. The recent Communist upheaval
taught them their mistake, and they are
now hastily rebuilding the walls.
If the British and Chinese representatives
have a real rush of brains to the head they
will recommend that Shanghai be handed
over to thd League of Nations. Running
the great cosmopolitan mart would give
that body much-needed experience in
administration. China is a member of the
League, and constantly preaches Confucian
ethics to the other members, so she should
not object; and the white residents ought
to welcome the chance of being rescued
from the tender mercies of Chinese Judges,
taxgatherers, sanitation experts and adminis-
trators.
«
Can Australia Afford a Navy?
Dear Bulletin, —Lots of rich men use the
State’s trams and trains, but no one there-
fore doubts their wealth, just as no one
would question that Australia was a nation
even if she had no navy.
Navies and armies are very different
things. Regiments, brigades, divisions and
armies can act in perfect concert with
each other provided their liaison is good;
they may even talk different languages, as
they frequently did during the Great War,
without any necessary loss of efficiency.
But a ship, to be an effective unit of a
fleet, must be an integral and almost in-
separable part of that fleet. She must be
more or less born in it, taught with it,
drilled with it, and absorbed into it so that
she can be counted upon to act when neces-
sary as a real part of the fleet and not
just as a single ship. And what is more,
every ship must be fully confident that,
every other ship knows her job and will
act according to practised plan in any situ-
ation that may arise.
The whole idea of a separate Australian
Navy, manned by men receiving' different
rates of pay from those ruling in the Royal
Navy, and brought up under different con-
ditions and with different ideas, is wrong.
Australia could do nothing better at this
juncture than disband her navy, hand the
ships over to England, and for the future
make a cash contribution towards Empire
defence, unless there are any naval works
that could be usefully undertaken in Aus-
tralia and which will keep the money in
this country. A properly equipped naval
dockyard able to dock and repair a battle-
ship may be badly wanted here some day.—
Yours, X.N.O.


Patents.
PITTING AND CORING MACHINES.
'"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 14880/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
SHOCK ABSORBERS FOR VEHICLES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 1908/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
A
Leipzig'
Trade Fair
(Twice Yearly).
d
Visitors will not ex-
perience the slightest
difficulty with the
Language, Matters of
Freight, Duties or Bank-
ing. The Organisers of
the Leipzig Trade Fair
are always on hand to
help, courteously and
efficiently, on all ques-
tions pertaining to pur-
chasing and business
negotiation.
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of
all Trade Fairs.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING
AND BUILDING FAIRS
COMMENCE AUGUST 30.
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with names,
addresses and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Mareard Lund & Co., Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
“Summer in Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.”
d
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6 bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for veviscd tariff card.
POLITLCAL
POINTS
One interesting circumstance about the
Lang faction’s attack on Australia’s overseas
war debt is that the money was spent in
paying the Digger the highest soldier-wage
in the world. This is liable to hurt somebody
on the rebound. Next time N. S. Wales asks
for a foreign loan for public works, it may
be required to specify the maximum wages
to be paid out of the money, lest it should
once more pay more than it can afford to.
The Lenin Government in N. S. Wales
has brought in a bill to put the coal busi-
ness of the State under a Commission —
which is a good start towards Sovietisation.
Among other things a standard rate of div.
is to be fixed, as is done already, it is ex-
plained, with gas cos. Yes; and it’s a howl-
ing error. When a co., gas-supplier or other,
can’t pay more than, say, 8 per cent., it has
no incentive to make more than B.per cent.;
therefore it loafs on the job, neglects techni-
cal experiments, doesn’t put up plant to
handle by-products—in fact, employs just
enough labor to make 8 per cent, and no
more, though to make 9 per cent, it would
probably have to employ twice as many
people.
One of the basic ideas of the new Coal
Bill in N. S. Wales is the closing down of
the less-favored mines and the “repatriation”
of surplus miners. Well, the wheat-farmer
has had a leaner time than even the coal-
miner ; yet if the starved-out wheat-farmer
asked to be “repatriated” on to a coalmine,
even Baddeley might see the joke.
Queensland has for some time been in the
happy position of being able to lend money
to others instead of borrowing it. When the
last Labor Government ’went out, the incom-
ing Treasurer found there was some four
millions of loan money in the coffers, care-
fully conserved by ex-Premier McCormack.
About half the nest-egg has been lent out to
the other States, and the loans have been
promptly repaid, though one State has had to
ask for time. The balance is to be devoted
to carrying out a moderate works programme.
Thus far the Commonwealth has paid up
£2.238,916 on behalf of N. S. Wales, the
deliberate defaulter, and has garnisheed
£584,154, so there is £1,754,762 to recover.
But Lang is quite cheerful. He knows he
can’t last much longer, and, like the lady
“ Ho! So he’s thinkin’ of gettin’ another
lady to keep ouse for im, is e!”
who has been “given notice,” he isn’t
troubling to wash up, and last week’s laun-
dry is still lying in the corner, and there’s
scarcely an uncracked plate or an unchipped
cup on the premises. Amelia Lang will go;
but she’ll see that her successor has a devil
of a time.
According to report, Snowden will resign
as Chancellor of the Exchequer and become
Secretary for the Colonies. He is expected
to go to the House of Peers as Lord Snow-
ball or something. The dole fund is
£83.000,000 in debt and fast getting worse,
and the deficit, apart from that, shrieks for
more revenue. Snowden’s attitude is that
the heavens may fall but he won’t raise any
more by the easy road of the tariff. His
colleagues possibly think it isn’t worth while
being burned at the stake for a formula
which has fewer and fewer friends.
Maorilaiul has decided on voluntary mili-
tary training instead of ithe compulsory
variety. Enlistments are for three years—
between 18 and 25, with the option of exten-
sion to 30, and training will include one six-
days’ camp a year; and the scheme provides
for rapid mobilisation for home defence or
service overseas. Which recalls that if the
Scullidore reversion to voluntary service in
Australia included any revised plan of mobili-
sation to meet the changed conditions, it has
kept the silence of the never born,
The Hogans suffered an irritating bump in
Vic. Assembly on a motion to introduce a
bill permitting people behind with their
rates to be enrolled on city, town, borough
or shire voters’ lists. Not dreaming that
there would be any challenge on a stage
that is usually considered formal 10 Labor-
ites were absent (some were with deputa-
tions to Ministers), and, the Opposition
calling for a division, the Ministry was
beaten by one vote. It soon reassembled its
majority, but it had been very properly
reminded that the session should be devoted
to finance, unemployment and other big
things, and not to propagandist measures.
Cheap imported field-labor has been again
recommended to Australia, this time by an
American banker; and recent happenings in
Fiji supply all the comment necessary. At
the last Circuit Court sittings, there were
numerous cases of criminal
assault on women. Another
man got seven years for trying
to poison his neighbor’s wife
and the neighbor as well; still
another slew his wife and the
suspected tertium quid. All
the offenders were Hindus,
save the last, who was a. Sikh.
N.S.W. Premier Lang has
lately been qualifying for the
role of Antarctic explorer. His
freezing experiences in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, where
official Labor forbore even to
extend the frosty mitt, were
outdone when he arrived in
Brisbane. Not a member of
the official Labor party met
him at the railway stalioh,
while even Trades Hall emis-
saries were absent in large
numbers. He certainly got a big audience at
the Stadium when explaining his “plan,” but
it was mostly composed of people who wished
to be able to record the fact that they had
seen with their own eyes a world’s champion
in his own particular line.
Most of the figures quoted about motor
competition with the railways are right off
the target. Of the thousands who are on
the roads at the week-ends only scores would
take train if nothing else was available. As a
matter of hard fact, gross railway revenue
in N.S.W. per average mile run increased by
60 p.c. in the 10 years to 1929; the whole
cause of the trouble is that working exes,
sprang 74 p.c.
Lang let a Brisbane audience into the
inwardness of his Legal Reform Bill, which
he described as an innocuous measure
designed to simplify and cheapen litigation
and “to place a check on irresponsible
persons who, owning a printing-press and
having no money, could libel public leaders
without serious loss resulting from libel
actions.” The champion added that pre-
viously public men had no redress. Which
is quite true —with one small reservation.
Public men had no redress if the things said
about them were true. That was. roughly,
the inconvenient lion in the path of the in-
corruptible politician which Andy Lang-
saht’s Chloroform Bill wanted to get rid of.
Attacking the Hogans’ Moratorium Bill
in Vic. Assembly, Bob Menzies predicted
that it would really impose a special tax on
landlords for the relief of unemployed
tenants and would be death to all private
credit for struggling farmers. Bailey, Minis-
ter for Lands, while denying that the bill
was designed to impose a special tax on
landlords, admitted that it might work
out that way. Menzies’ speech was
very able, but its effect was somewhat dis-
counted by the drawling comment of Cleary,
one of the Cockies, that he could have made
an equally convincing speech on the other
side. The young man from Nunawading
will have to train the House to differentiate
between the M.P. and the K.C., as Higgins,
Isaacs and Irvine did before him.
At Guildford (N.S.W.) the other day a
one-armed woman, dependent on rents
of a couple of cottages, was attacked by
practically the whole population because
she had tried to get people out of one of
the places, for which they hadn’t paid rent
for months. Naturally. If Lang can refuse
to pay interest because he can find better
use for the money, why shouldn’t somebody
else 'refuse to pay rent for the same reason?
A farmer knows he has to dig something
out of the earth or he won’t get it; so lie
goes on ploughing and seeding and producing.
A house-agent doesn’t dig; he doesn’t know
anything about production; he only knows
that when money is plentiful business is
brisk. So in the natural course Lang thinks
he has done all that is necessary when he
spends money. It explains why he says he is
willing to scatter £55,000 on some sort of exhi-
bition at the opening of the Harbor Bridge,
because it would give hundreds work for
three months. Lang’s one idea about dogs
no doubt is that they are born with tails
so that other dogs may get at least one meal.
The llome-Rule-for-India movement is
progressing all right save for one outstand-
ing discrepancy. The Gandhi mob demands
an All-India Parliament. Britain is willing
provided the rights of minorities are safe-
guarded, but they can’t be safeguarded unless
the white man stays. There are 10 provin-
cial Parliaments already, partly elective and
part nominee, but Gandhi wants a central
affair with the untrammelled authority of
the British House of Commons. He assumes
that it will behave like the British Commons
out of respect for his British education,
which it probably won’t.
BUTTONS: "Big train robbery, sir! Rubbish
substituted for banknotes
INDIGNANT TREASUEER: “Dammit, how dare
they? Why, that’s my trick!”
Jones, Vic. Minister for Mines, complains
that there is too strong a tendency to treat
appeals to him against wardens’ decisions
in respect to lease-forfeiture applications
as if they were mere deputations. Fie in-
sists that he deals with these cases in a
judicial capacity, and expects to be treated
accordingly, even by lawyers who appear
for parties, Jones takes his Ministerial job
seriously all round, particularly the part
dealing with finance. He has a horror of
waste, overlapping and bad or unnecessary
buying. 'He runs Works as well as Mines.
Queensland’s basic wage is down again,
following on a further drop in the cost of
living. For adult males it is to be £3 14s.
a week; for women, £1 19s. —3s. less in
one case and 6d. in the other. The three
members of the Industrial Court differed as
to what the cuts should be; they were unani-
mous on the anomaly of single men being-
paid at the same rate as married men with
families, and on the necessity for instituting
a child-endowment scheme in Bananaland.
The new rate for men, relative to the cost'
of living, is reckoned to be 4s. higher than the
1921 basic wage of £4 ss.
Agent-General Willis, arriving from Syd-
ney, found it a wet day in London and a
casual dog waiting to welcome him on the
platform. His first oflicial act was to move
his traps to a cheaper hotel than the one
at which a room had been booked for him.
It _ was a wise precaution, especially if his
private funds had been transferred to the
London office of the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank. A good many Australians
with balances in that luckless institution
are looking for a doss in London and finding-
one hard to arrive at. It is Willis’s special
job to explain that the Lang Government
hasn’t stopped payment of anything or repu-
diated anything, and he will be kept busy
explaining to large and importunate audi-
ences for some time to come.
Brisbane has just started on a new line:
of its 20 aldermen four have been appointed
as an executive, each in Ministerial charge
of a department—tramways, power and
lighting and water and sewerage are all
under Brisbane civic control. These four
and the Mayor form a Cabinet; and the old
committee system is thrown overboard. The
Bulletin isn’t particularly hopeful; it;
looks as though the scheme might offer too
much encouragement to incompetent busy-
bodies to butt it on technical matters.
Heaven knows Associated News, Ltd., of
Sydney, has got on badly enough; but it
might have got on a lot worse if the share-
holders elected 20 directors, who chose four
of their number as an Executive to take
charge of Policy and Newsgetting, Advt.-
Getting, Mechanical Production and Distri-
bution respectively.
One of the sections of Andy Langsaht’s
Law Reform Bill —Chloroform Bill for short
—abolishes capital punishment. There lias
long been need of a measure radically amend-
ing the law which relates to judicial scrag-
ging : scores of juries have found prisoners
not guilty of murder because, though .satis-
fied they did murder, said jurors did not
believe the accused ought to be hanged or
even run the risk of being hanged. So, not
being able to limit the punishment, they
have declined to send the man to any pun-
ishment at all. But while that and a few
other things want changing, it is most unfair
to prison warders and prisoners to altogether
abolish the death penalty. If a man has
“life,” nothing but the dread of capital punish-
ment can stop him from being a perfect
fiend among the gaol population.
Vic.’s disputes-settlcment machinery isn’t
quite as extravagant as the Ma State’s ■ but
there is shameful waste about the Wages ■
Boards, too. The eight members of the board
-—four from each side —have a chairman
from outside who lives largely on his fees,
and as the board is allowed four sittings in
which to settle the simplest dispute, pi*acti-
cally nothing ever is settled in less than four.
The other day a new employees’ representa-
tive wanted to come to a vote the first night
—which almost always means handing the
decision over to the chairman. Presently,
as he persisted, a colleague got his ear and
led him away. “Don’t you see, you silly
ass,” the old hand said, “that what you
propose to do is to fine the chairman a
fiver? And then you expect him to give his
decision our way!”
It becomes a frequent remark in England
that if Macdonald and Snowden continue
to play the giddy ox like Scullin and Theo-
dore and Lang they may in time get into
similar difficulties. A good deal of time will
be wanted, but events are pointing that
way. For 1931-32 (March to March) Snow-
den proposed to withdraw £20,000,000 from
a gold reserve of £33,000,000 which Bald-
win established in New York to cover ex-
change possibilities. Also he proposed to
raise £7,500,000 by an extra tax on petrol,
which won’t help any British industry, and
he planned to forestall the future by collect-
ing five quarters’ income tax in one year.
Then, being still a bogged man, he devised a
new land tax, though land is heavily taxed
already. The surplus of imports over exports
rose from 366 million pounds in 1929 to 392
millions in 1930, and the estimated income
from foreign investments and businesses,
which is supposed to counterbalance this
and leave something over to lend to poor
Australia, fell from 504 millions to 431
millions. Snojvden says he is resolved to
keep the Freetrade flag flying, but people
begin to say that it may get flyblown for all
they care so long as they get an holiest job.
“The A.W.U. men in the N.S.W. Leg. Council
have refused to sign the undertaking that they will
do everything demanded of them by Premier Lang
and Mr. Graves, of the A.L.P. executive. Mr. Graves
insists, however, that every other Labor Leg. Coun-
cillor will sign.”
BOSS GRANES : “Intimidation ? Not a bit
of it! If you don’t believe you’re a
free agent look at me stick.”
“Matelot”: The people responsible for the
financial handling of our submarines have a
strong claim on Canberra’s annual Cup for
Asinine Extravagance. The six subs, that
we acquired after the war were never
taken to sea, but round about ’23 it
was decided to have one refitted, and the job
was done locally at a cost of £150,000. The
up-to-the-minute craft was then toted from
Sydney to Wcsternport, where it was put on
the mud; the crew walked ashore, and on
the mud the sub. stayed till she was sold as
junk years later. Not long ago we bought
two modern under-water ships from Britain
for, roughly, a million sterling. Then the
pacific Scullin decided to give them back
to the U.K. He didn’t suggest that half
a million or so should be knocked off our
war debt on account of them, mark. Just
consigned them to the Admiralty as if the
Commonwealth had so much money that it
didn’t need to worry over the total loss of
£1,000,000.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“The Office Flapper”: I was in a drawing-
room in Toorak the other afternoon, and
for the first time I realised why director
Wilkie can’t make the Zoological Gardens
pay nowadays. I mean, every woman is her
own menagerie nowadays. I mean, the mar-
ried woman who hasn’t got a pet Pom. to
fill her mental vacuum has a tortoise roam-
ing around and interrupting the conversa-
NOT AT ALL MODERN.
HELEN: “Has she a modern outlook?”
YSABEL: “Oh, I don’t think so. She has been married quite happily for years.”
tion. In fact, I know of one case who keeps
a waw-waw, which is a long thin black mon-
key with a white face and woeful eyes, and
to see them together, well, believe me, Greta
Garbo and Ronnie Colman are not in it.
Well, all these women had an animal of some
sort, and they kept acting the fool with them
and giving them sugar lumps and the host-
ess’s most expensive cream cakes, and I
think I would have done something despe-
rate if the Other Girl who was with me
hadn’t relieved the tension. I mean, one
of the walking zoos suddenly perceived that
neither me nor her had an animal com-
panion, and she turned to the Other Girl
and said, “Haven’t you got a little doggie?”
The Other Girl took a long breath and eyed
her quietly, dnd then said, “No, I haven’t.
You see, I’ve only been married three
months.” She hadn’t really, but we both
felt better after that.
“Retired Leg”: I take it the warned-off
Marquis referred to by “Deueease” (B.
20/5/’3l) was he of Ailesbury, who once
owned the yacht Merrie England, long-
famous in Island and Australian waters. H'e
was an amiable character, his actress wife
once testifying that when he met her pony
chaise in a narrow road while driving four-
in-hand, he drove his turn-out clean over
hers, because she was slow in drawing on one
side. But even “the Markis” wasn’t the
biggest personage who has found himself
“on the outer.” The First Gentleman of
Europe, subsequently George the Fourth, was
warned off Newmarket Heath, and his jockey-
trainer, Sam Chifney, with him.
* * * *
“Knobbo”: Better this for a publisher’s
“blurb,” if you can. “Susan Spray, of humble
origin but exceptional precocity, has many
vital experiences, to which her three hus-
bands and her wayward sister contribute in
no small measure.” Three husbands would!
sj: * St *
“Cousin Maude”: Funny how men don’t
realise that times have changed. One
of our most eminent public males here in
Melbourne, who holds the record for being
on more committees than
any living early-Victorian
except knight James_ Bar-
rett, is a case in point, if
ever there was one. I mean,
he delivered an address to
mothers the other night on
how, thank God, despite
Bertrand Russell and Judge
Lindsey and all these foreign
liomebreakers, the o 1 d-
fashioned family system that
had built the British Empire
still flourished, and the
father was still the head of
the domestic hearth, etc.,
etc. Well, at breakfast the
next morning he was just
about to read to the assem-
bled empire-builders what
the “Argus” had written
about his lecture when his
youngest daughter bounced
in and said “Good morning.
If anybody wants to kiss the
future Mrs. Swizzlestick
now’s their opportunity.” And it was the
first time any of them had ever heard of
the man!
* * * #
“Jumrud”: I note that Afghanistan’s Jack
Lang, Nadir Shah, is re-organising his army
and has ordered 10,000 French rifles to that
end. The Lebel rifle is an excellent weapon
for an army which regards rifle fire as a
mere adjunct to other forms of warfare, but
it is far from being a Lee-Metford, and no
one appreciates the worth of the British rifle
more than that queer epitome of likeable
ruffianism, the Pathan. When unable to
steal one from some frontier post he is con-
tent to pay its weight in silver rupees for
one smuggled through the Persian Gulf and
Baluchistan—with the depreciation of silver
the price has probably jumped. In the past
he has been so well catered for by British
manufacturing firms that it seems distinctly
ungrateful of him to turn to an inferior
Continental product.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: It is a sign of the times
that “The Domain” now figures in a Syd-
ney G.P.O. notice as one of the places in-
cluded in the central delivery of letters.
The conscientious Post Office, it seems, will
do its best to ensure that the Domain camp-
ers receive their mail, although I am told
it is seldom a letter-deliverer has to take
the long walk. An cx-Digger who has estab-
lished himself there showed me an envelope
addressed to him at “The Gunyah, Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair,” which duly reached
him.
“Meteren”: The Major who got a wound-
stripe for a broken leg sustained by a fall
into his dug-out (B. 20/5/’3l) reminds me
of another casualty. In a loft at Buire we
were celebrating the coming out of Flers,
with S.R.D. thieved from the dump and
stolen fowls roasted on the brazier. When the
birds ran short a sozzled Digger volunteered
to get reinforcements. Missing the top rung
of the ladder to the ground floor, he slid
down it and landed with a sprained ankle.
Dumping him on a stretcher his blithered
cobbers staggered with him to a dressing-
station. gave him a final shot of rum and left
him blissfully unconscious of everything.
There was a rush of wounded then coming
through from a Somme stunt, and the man
with the bandaged ankle was ticketed GSW
of foot and suffering from severe shell-shock,
and was pushed aboard a hospital train.
Another exodus was going on from the base
hospital to make room for expected heavy
casualties, so he stayed only two hours there,
On the trip across the Channel a nurse, re-
dressing his ankle for the first time and find-
ing no wound, asked how he’d got that far
on a sprain. As he had no idea, shell-shock
was stressed as his main-disability. Within
24 hours of his fall he was staging a recovery
beneath the sheets in a Blighty hospital.
* * * *
“X.D.”: The Bulletin’s polite sugges-
tion to the Vic. police to cut out the cackle
has borne fruit in a regulation forbidding
policemen below the rank of sub-inspector
to give information to the press. As there
is only one official of that rank on duty at
Russell-street after 10 p.m.. and he is usually
SAFETY FIRST.
WIFE (to new motorist who has picked up a big nail): “Hadn’t you better read the
book of instructions first, George ? The nail might have been put there td
prevent the tyre and tube jrom coming apart.”
out on inspection, the decree amounts to an
embargo on news even of street accidents,
and is therefore a bit too strict. But that
there was need for something of the kind
was made painfully obvious in a recent
murder case, when a daily paper not only
came out with information given to the
detectives by a citizen on a guarantee of
strict confidence, but actually published part
of it before the examination at the station
was completed!
* * * *
“Nikko”: He was battered and old, but
he presented his card at the door with quiet
dignity. It was hand-printed and infor-
mative : “John Blank, Landscrape Gar-
dener.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Fifty years hence, when
trams in the middle of the street are no
more than a memory, Melbourne citizens
will read with amazement the sanguinary
record of the municipal
safety-zone beacons. The
Wellington-parade example
stands at the top of one of
the little rectangles painted
on the road. It weighs half
a ton, and has been equipped
with all sorts of devices, in-
cluding flood and revolving
lights. The only thing not
yet tried is a bell or a sema-
phore. It has been hit six
times officially, aud nobody
knows how many times un-
officially. It has killed one
man and injured a dozen.
The beacons in Swanston-
street have been targets for
a dozen cars, and the one in
front of St, Paul’s Cathedral
was hit on an average three*
times a week during a long
period. The council regards
the casualty list as con-
vincing proof of the value
of the beacons. If they
hadn’t been there the vic-
tims would have been pedes-
trians. That is all there is
to be said about it until
Cameron’s juggernauts cease
breaking every ordinary rule
of the road and are replaced
by ’buses or railless trams that draw up
to the sidewalk like any other vehicle.
$ -»* H* 'l*
“Dukun”: A South Australian couple of'
the unco’ guid sort recently married off their
daughter, and what was their surprise, if
not their delight, to learn six months after
the wedding that a fine, bouncing grandson
had arrived. After some consideration, but
with reasonable promptitude, they decided
on the advisability of withholding public
rejoicings over the happy event for a space,
in the meantime sending the mother aud
her infant to the seaside. Four months later
the birth was announced, and to mark the
occasion fittingly a party was held, at which
the guests were able to marvel at the pheno-
menon of a newly-born human being weigh-
ing something in the region of 171 b.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: Almost every conceivable
method for saving a condemned man from the
gallows has been tried in England, but “inter-
cessory prayers for the guidance of the
Judges of the Appeal Court” offered in an
Anglican Cathedral is a new one. It worked,
however, in the case of William Wallace, of
Liverpool, the other day, or, nerhaps it would
be more correct to say that the results were
entirely satisfactory to the petitioners, for
the Court, headed by the Chief Justice,
quashed the conviction on the ground of in-
sufficient evidence, a very rare occurrence in
the Court of Criminal Appeal. Certainly
the same thing might have happened without
the prayers, but one never knows. The
trouble is that this sort of thing having begun
no one can. say where it will stop. Some
50 years ago the famous criminal lawyer
Sergeant Ballantyne wound up a speech in
defence of a man on trial for murder by
earnestly asserting his own personal convic-
tion that his client was innocent. There was
an outcry from the Bar at such a breach of
professional ethics; it was pointed out that,
if that sort of thing were once countenanced,
every advocate would be prejudicing his
client if he didn’t make a similar appeal.
Possibly in the same way the next man
under sentence of death for whose release
there is a public agitation will be held to be
placed at a disadvantage unless prayers are
offered in church for the guidance of the
Appeal Judges.
* # * *
“Bloomer”: Of the many who at one time
or another kicked themselves during the
Great War, it is probable none did so with
more heartiness than the commander of the
U4l. He was off the Dutch coast in 1916
when he spotted the Tubantia making down
Channel and promptly torpedoed her, though
she was a neutral. That didn’t make him
unpopular at H.Q., however. What did
was the fact that the neutral was carrying
over a million pounds’ worth of Germau
Government gold intended to stabilise Ger-.
man credit in South America. A salvage
party is now going after the lost treasure,
which is said to have been hidden in a cargo
of cheeses.
❖ V
“S.S.S.” : The habit of writing hard things
about Governors didn’t end in Westraha
with the regime of the stormy Broome (B.
20/5/’3l). Sir Gerard Smith (1897-1901)
got liis whack of press pepper, and a bit
more. Not that he ever sought to interfere
in politics, as Broome did; but there were
some petty meannesses that jarred—as when
his Ex. billed the Perth City Council for
the price of a load of gravel laid down at
Government House gates for the carriages
for his daughter’s wedding to roll over. Also
he was reckoned much too ready to lend an
ear to the financial schemes of gentry with
axes of their own to grind. His trip over
the back-country goldfields with a notorious
company promoter, when the party fed on
plates of gold at Peak Hill after a Murchi-
son publican had refused them a case of lager
except for cash on the nail, kept the out-
spoken goldfields press in copy for quite a
time. One journal asked what things had
come to when a mining speculator could
drag the Governor about the country for his
own benefit, “for all the world like a show-
man with a performing bear.”
* * =!= *
“R. Volt”: A visit to the radio exhibition
at Melbourne Town Hall impressed me
mainly by the fact that the loud speaker,
even of the most modern and expensive de-
sign, still requires a cough lozenge and a
course of reduction. Its voice is still the
travesty of human speech it ever was, though
it gets nearer to the reality of instrumental
sound. Not that this matters very much.
The human ear, like the human eye, cau
accommodate itself to any convention. The
Egyptians believed that their bas-reliefs were
like real men and women, just as Australians
believe that the gum-trees and sunlight of
Hans Heysen and Arthur Streeton are like
real gum-trees and sunlight. When artists
arose who tried to paint the Egyptian as lie
really was, the Pharaohs had them put to
death as impious impostors. A generation
brought up exclusively on the radio, talkies
and gramophones will have an entirely dif-
ferent conception of sound. The other day
I heard Mr. Lyons talking, and nobody was
in the least surprised that from the little
man’s vocal tubes came a bellow that would
have done credit to a dinosaur, supposing a
dinosaur had a bellow. When the loud
speakers concealed about the hall were acci-
dentally cut off and the talker’s voice shrank
to something more in keeping with his size,
everybody looked bewildered. I notice nowa-
days that actors yell at their audiences twice
as loudly as they used to, and the audiences,
no doubt influenced by the talkies, don’t
seem to mind.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WILLIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the matter of financial obligations, Agent-
General Willis explained to a group of London
pressmen, it was reasonable to expect more con-
sideration from a member of the same family than
from a foreigner.”
“Blood’s thicker than water. I always have
found
The adage,” said Willis, “uncommonly sound,
I hardly remember a better.
It’s a thing that a creditor mustn’t forget.
Whene’er on collecting accounts he is set.
But it doesn’t apply to a debtor,
Not much!
It never need worry a debtor.
“When a nephew or cousin some boodle
you’ve lent,
Or a brother obliged at the ruling per cent.,
Or maybe a son or a daughter,
If the interest due gets a trifle behind
Don’t act like a Shylock, but keep it in mind
. That blood’s a lot thicker than water,
Too right!
It’s palpably thicker than water.
“In days such as these are the soul of a man
Will rightly go out to his kin or his clan
When he knows they’re in debt or in
danger.
‘What, you find it a bit inconvenient,’ he’ll
say,
‘To meet my account? Then don’t trouble
to pay,
It’s not as if you were a stranger.
My oath!
I wouldn’t do this for a stranger.’
“And suppose, you should ask, the position’s
reversed
Should one pay his dues to the creditor first
Who happens to be a relation?
Nay, that were a faulty conclusion, my
friend.
Though a man may expect, he’s not forced
to extend,
A similar consideration.
That sort
Of family consideration.
“Blood’s thicker than water —so much he
should know,
The kinsman whom money you happen to
owe,
_And bid you make light of the fetter.
Blood’s thicker than water. An axiom true—
But only, remark, from the creditor’s view.
It doesn’t apply to the debtor,
Not much.
It needn’t embarrass the debtor.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Strict Veg.” : Bombs consisting of pota-
toes filled with some black substance re-
sembling tar have been thrown at some of
the statues in process of being prepared for
the Shrine of Remembrance in Melbourne,
and in the case of “Patriotism” a sixteenth
of an inch of statue had to be removed in
order to get rid of the stain. The deed is
ascribed by right-thinking people to Com-
munistic haters of war, and the Commu-
nists assert that it was done by agents pro-
vocateurs as a preliminary to a round-up of
seditious persons by the police. My sug-
gestion is that it was done by an art-lover
enraged at the job of adorning the national
memorial being let out to a solitary sculptor,
as if it were as simple as decorating a
savings-bank home. The classic instance of
the sort was the overturning of the Ven-
dome column in Paris by Courbet, the first
of the French realists. How he did it re-
mains a mystery to this day. For one man
it was an engineering feat only equalled by
the erection of the Pyramids. The Govern-
ment decreed that the artist should replace
the monument, and it was such a big enter-
prise that Courbet ended by being financially
ruined.
* * *
“Oxmead”: The story recently pieced to-
gether in the correspondence columns of the
“S.M.PI.” irresistibly recalls the stone which
Mr. Pickwick purchased for ten shillings
at Cobham, intrigued by some mysterious
lettering on it, the inscription being subse-
SOMETHING HAD TO BE DONE.
“Good gracious! Fancy that pale-faced Harold going in for physical culture!”
“Well, you might, too, if you’d been knocked out three times in one year by the
income-tax man.”
quently deciphered as “Bil Stumps His
Mark.” In this case an Eminent Archaeo-
logist went rooting about the Hawkesbury
in quest of local color, and got on the trail
of a certain Major Dampier-Mercer who was
“with Captain Cook,” and also apparently
with the Gregory-Blaxland party when they
crossed the Blue Mountains. There is no
mention of the Major in any of the accepted
histories or biographies, but the E.A. learned
quite a lot about, him. Speculation turned
to certainty when an aged Hawkesbury
native produced a copy of the inscription
on Mercer’s tombstone, which made it clear
that the Major lived to over 90 and was
buried at some place named “Mercer’s Vale,”
under a tombstone setting forth in the stilted
English of the period his manifold services
to the Empire and his adopted country. This
looked like incontrovertible evidence, but when
the E.A., with all the pride of a discoverer,
bounded into print with his Major, doubts
began to intrude. The whereabouts of the
tombstone was demanded, and whether he
had ever seen the inscription, and other
archaeologists leaped into the fray, taking
sides, until it began to look as if nothing
short of a Royal Commissioner would settle
the question of the Major’s existence. At
this stage, however, J. 11. M. Abbott settled
it. He had written a story ten years ago
in which Major Dampier-Mercer, a purely
fictitious character, played a prominent part;
he had also written the inscription on the
Major’s tombstone. The Hawkesbury an-
cient had read the story and taken it for
gospel, and faithfully copied out the recital
of the deceased’s services and virtues, and
the rest is easily explained. Doubtless quite
a lot of history is made this way—unless it
is blown out in time.
* =!=
“Der Jong”; That suggested Melbourne
memorial to horses killed in the Great War
(B. 20/5/’3l) has long been forestalled. At
Port Elizabeth, Cape Colony, there is a
splendid group of horse and rider, round the
base of which are troughs for the workaday
neddies to drink from. The fine bronze
was paid for by subscriptions collected by
the women of Port Elizabeth, largely from
regiments which disembarked there during
the Boer War. Every subscriber of five shil-
ings was promised a photograph of the com-
pleted memorial. Mine came to hand in due
course, but years later.
❖ * * *
“Penfield”: The Greeks still bring gifts,
though sometimes nowadays they are carried
in under the police tunic of Inspector
O’Hooligan. It happened that way in a
Sydney S.M.’s court the other morning. Two
young men were charged with being inter-
ested in a jewel robbery, with violence.
Bail was applied for, and, to the astonish-
ment of court loungers, was granted—you
should have heard the remarks about magis-
terial justice and impartiality! What they
didn’t know was that the police pined to
find out where the rest of that loot and also
the proceeds of a train robbery were hid-
den (they suspected the two jobs were done
by the one gang). It came off all right.
Neither accused moved thereafter without
a shadow, and presently one of them led
his shadow to a city safe deposit. Three-
fourths of the jewel loot was thus found;
and then the Court suddenly discovered con-
scientious objections to any further bail.
* * * S:
“Centurion”: Lloyd George is an admitted
master of metaphor, but he sometimes mixes
his illustrations overmuch. Much of Eng-
land will never forget his famous reference
in the Limehouse speech of long ago to the
wicked landlord’s ravening pheasants, which
devoured the poor man’s turnips. Attacking
Stanley Baldwin the other day, he described
him as “a reluctant recruit dragged to the
barrack-room by the press gang,” going on
to picture the Tory leader as a bull with a
ring in his nose and a hangman with his
hand on the levdr of the scaffold where Free
Trade is to be executed. The cableman may
have done the eloquent Welshman some injus-
tice by condensing all three figures into one
paragraph, but the first analogy is an inde-
fensible one. The press gang’ and the Army
(indicated by “recruit” and “barrack-room”)
have never been associated. It was the
senior service which made the Nile and
Trafalgar possible by clubbing citizens on the
head in the streets and dragging them off to
serve King George afloat. The Army recruit-
ing system was much anore humane. The
recruiting sergeant would make a mob of
yokels blind drunk at the village inn and
inform them, when they sobered iip, that
they had taken the fatal shilling,
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: An ancient has been con-
victed in Sydney of having drawn three old-
age pensions—one in his own name and the
others in those of two fellow-passengers on
the ship that brought him to Australia in
the long ago. As he had borrowed these
names for use occasionally he was able to
give references from people who had known
him under all his titles. This sort of im-
position is, of course, rare; it is in regard to
war claims that most frauds have been
perpetrated, the worst of them by women.
Between 1914 and 1918 one woman “mar-
ried” no fewer than seven departing soldiers
and drew allotment money and separation
allowances for each of them. She was bowled
out before the pension stage was reached;
but another woman actually did collect four
SURRENDER.
OLD MAN'S DARLING: “I heard yesterday
of a couple who’ve got married after
a ten-years’ engagement.”
DISILLUSINED OLD MAN: “Got too infirm
to hold out any longer, I suppose.”
pensions for a time. One of the queerest
cases I recall was when a belated casualty-
list correction wiped a name off the “Killed
in Action” lists. An inspector, deputed to
convey the good news to a woman drawing
a widow’s pension that her husband was still
alive, was met at the front door by the hus-
band himself. Seeing how matters stood
when he returned, he had decided not to
spoil the situation by insisting that he was
not dead.
* $ *
“Pawang”: The medical profession is feel-
ing the pinch, along with the rest of us, and
it surprises me that no doctors, especially
those of the feminine gender, have thought
of setting up a clinic for the teaching of
birth control on the English and European
model. Marie Stopes has a string of these
in London, and they are enormously popular
—so much so that much of the work is dele-
gated to qualified nurses. It is true that
scientific opinion is divided about the respec-
tive merits of the different methods of birth
control now current, but so also is it of
the merits of the different medicines men-
tioned in the pharmacopoeia; yet physicians
continue to prescribe. Now that the Lam-
beth Conference has practically sanctioned
birth control the thunders of at least the
Protestant churches need not be feared. The
Victorian clergy are mostly in favor, since
Archbishop Head has spoken in a more or
less certain voice. If the medical profes-
sion hesitates the quack is likely to step in,
if he is not already there.
* * * *
“Pone Me”: The Nullarbor Plain is per-
haps the most frequently mis-spelt and mis-
pronounced place in Australia, which just
shows the danger of knocking a couple of
Latin words together. The words, of course,
are “nulla arbor” (no tree), taken from a
couple of lines of Horace, but many of the
reference books and even some of the maps
have long since corrupted it to “Nullabor,”
and most speakers put the accent on the
last syllable, instead of the middle one—l
remember hearing the late Andy Fisher doing
it repeatedly in a speech when the Trans,
line was begun. In the recently published
Australian novel “Tybal Men,” the wrong
spelling is persisted in; one also learns that
prospectors look in on the region occasionally
in search of gold!
H* :Jc 3? 3*
“Strict Veg.”: Sand-shifting is not a Gov-
ernment device for dealing with unemploy-
ment in Melbourne. It is a matter for pri-
vate enterprise. Men drawing sustenance
can be seen on most of the more popular
beaches nowadays, shifting it for all it is
worth in search of property lost by trippers.
One firm of two is throwing the foreshore
through a sieve improvised out of an old
wire mattress.
$ $ $ $
“Brick Court”: Some Melbourne book-
makers are endeavoring to have a solicitor
struck off the roll because he lost wagers
amounting to close on £2OOO and proceeded
to apply the Lang plan to his liabilities. For
the applicants it was argued that this
amounted to misconduct within the meaning
of the Law Institute Act —“a person who
was not fit to go on a racecourse was not fit
to practise the profession of a solicitor.”
Nevertheless, a betting debt not being recov-
erable by law (except in Certain cases where
agency intrudes) it might be argued that
there was no legal offence shown, however
reprehensible the misconduct from the turf
point of view. There is no all-embracing
standard of morality for professions; every
one, including politics—it might be said par-
ticularly politics—has its own. Not many
years ago a man who had been deprived of
his right to practise as a. solicitor was still
held fit to be Mayor of a city and Speaker
of a Legislative Assembly —at all events his
legal disqualification didn’t prevent him from
holding those jobs. This time the boot is on
the other leg, and the Law has still got its
brows knit over it.
* * * *
“XN.O.”: The Norwegian skipper (B.
13/s’/’3l) who bought for six shillings at
a Port Adelaide auction goods subject to
£l6lO worth of duty and sailed away with
them to a Freetrade country may have got
the idea from the R.N. The Navy has
always got its wines, spirits, tobacco, etc.,
free of import duties. Excise was an-
other matter, but excise is not charge-
able on goods exported from England,
so the wine and spirit merchants would con-
sign the fleet’s supplies to an agent at a
neighboring Continental port. It was extra-
ordinary how many excuses used to be found
for sending destroyers to the Channel
Islands, and I remember once coming back
from Norway with a huge upper-deck cargo
of whisky and gin shipped by a Portsmouth
firm to the order of the wardroom mess of
a Portsmouth ship.
$ $
“Homfrey Beale”: Not all the smart re-
torts came from the Diggers. Some of us
were taking down a group of German prisoners
whose feet were so bad from exposure that
the owners had shed their boots. On the way
we passed a party of French engineers, one of
whom called out in his own language, “What,
did you let the Aussies pinch your boots?”
From one of the captives came the prompt
reply in excellent French, “No, we lost them
chas'ing you [several times something] Frog-
gies before the Aussies came.”
A' ❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: Slang is seldom heard in Mel-
bourne courts, even the constables being
conscious of the fact that they are citizens
of the cultural centre of the Commonwealth.
Graphic description, however, sometimes
takes its place. Asked by the Bench to
describe how a drunken motorist had driven
down Flinders-street, the official witness
scratched his head and said, “Well, y’Honor,
he looked as if he was chasing a snake.”
* * * *
“Zig” : To the list of Europe’s remaining
kingdoms (B. 29/4/’3l) Albania might be
added, bringing the number up to 11. Cer-
tainly it is a small country with a popula-
tion of something under a million, mostly
turbulent, but there is no doubt that it has
a king at present, a monarch with the extra-
ordinary name of Zog, which in itself seems
to confer on him a distinct individuality. Not
a great deal is known of Zog, but an Ameri-
can journalist who went through the coun-
try recently and wrote up its picturesque if
not invariably cleanly inhabitants included a
picture of Zog, who looks like a home-grown
product. Albania had one previous king, a
certain William of Wied, imported from
Germany, but the mountaineers hunted him
out just before the Great War.
* * * *
“Fugue” : Of course the troubadours car-
ried their melodies in their heads (B.
29/4/’3l), just as did the Arabs and many
other nations of primitive culture before musi-
cal notation was thought of. A tune en-
dures beyond most other memories, and it is
safe to assume that many a one was pre-
served by the ear and handed down for
centuries. For instance, _ the air which
Britons know as “We Won’t Go Home Till
Morning” has been identified with a Sara-
cenic march which was played in the days
of Salah-el-din. The Papuan natives and
many other quite primitive savages can
boast a long heritage of musical chants and
songs handed down by ear only.
* * * *
“Viau”: “Shep.’s” Digger (B. 6/5/’3l).
referring to his badge and medals, says
“What the ’ell’s the good of ’em?” I never had
any occasion to appreciate mine very
highly, but I found one who did. When
I was in New Guinea my “boy” would
take them weekly from a box of odds and
ends, lovingly polish them and press the
ribbons before replacing them again in
waxed-paper wrappings, while I cynically
reflected on other people’s disregard 'of what
they represented. Don’t know how many
times he had done it before, but I caught
him at last wearing them as part of his
“sing-sing” regalia at festivities staged for
some touring Parliamentarians.
DEFEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It came through a mist of tears to me in my
mingled pride and pain,
That at least he had fought for a thing worth
while and had not died in vain.
For I knew all things that a man could
know, it seemed, on that bitter day,
When we dug his grave in the frozen soil
by the road that leads to Bray.
We dug his grave, and we laid him down,
away from the searching wind,
With a slender poplar for company, and I
saw as I looked behind
The cross whereon avc had scrawled his name
stand out from the shining snow.
But I did not know that a wooden cross
was all that he’d have to show.
In a foreign land there’s a lonely grave with
a poplar overhead,
And the road hard by is churned to mud by
the slow teams’ heavy tread,
And tlie world rolls on as the teams go by,
all heedless of one who died.
Who laid on the altar of sacrifice his man-
hood and faith and pride.
And I, who deemed that his sacrifice was
part of a splendid scheme,
Have come to know this many a day that
he died for an empty dream.
For the bitter years and the barren years
have this one fact revealed:
That he fought and died for a wooden cross
on a far-off foreign field.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


PERSONAL
ITENS
Some June birthdays:—
Dr. Alexander Deeper (Melb.), 83, on 3rd; W. B.
Propsting (Speck’s Leg, Council Pres.), 70 on 4th;
Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 62, Major-Gen. Kenneth
Mackay, 72, and Mrs. TEneas Gunn (“We of the
Never Never”), on sth; Senator Major-Gen. Glas-
gow, 55, Justice Inglis Clark (Speck), 49, Arthur 11.
Adams, 59, and V. M. .Marks, M.11.R., 56, on 6th,
F, T. Bridges (A.M.P. Soc.), 70, on 7th; Bishop
Gilbert White, of Sydney (late of Carpentaria and
Willochra), 72, S. L. Gardner, M.11.R., 47, and Dr.
Prescott (Newington Coll.), 74, on 9th; Vic. Speaker
Peacock, 70, on 11th ; J. Lane Mullins, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
74, on 12th; J. 11. Prow.se, M.11.R., 60, on 16th;
Bishop D’Arcy-Irvine (Syd.), 69, on 17th ; R.C. Bishop
Barry (Goulburn), 56, Frank Tate (Vic.’s ex-
Director of Education), 68, and T. L. Axford, V.C.
(W.A.), 36, on 18th; Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Direc-
tor-Gen. of Quarantine), 51, Col. Crouch, M.11.R.
63, and S. Aus. Speaker . Shepherd, 37, on 19th;
J. M. Fowler, ex-M.H.K., 66, on 20th; Major-Gen.
Walter Coxen, 61, and Prof. Cleland (Adel.), 53 on
22nd; Capt. Dyett (R.S.L.), 40, on 23rd; R. O.
Blackwood (Vic.), 70, and S. Aus. ex-Minister G. F.
Jenkins, 53, on 24th; Knight Frank Moulden (Adel-
aide’s former Gaud Mayor), 55, and T. J. Roseby
(Sydney Board of Water Supply), 65, on 25th; Prof.
Hancock (Adel), 33, Capt. William Cope (N.S.W.
Soudan Contingent in 1885), 74, naturalist Chas.
Barrett (Vic.), 52, and S. Aus. pastoralist E. A.
Brooks, 54, on 26th; General Monash, 66, geologist
Dr. Frank Stillwell (Vic.), 43, J. Nevin Tait, 55,
and Hr. Fred Watson (editor of Historical Records),
53, on 27th; Bruce Smith, K.C. (N.S.W.), 80, on
28th; Dr. S. S. Cameron (Vic. Director of Agrie.),
65, and A. E, Simpson (S. Aus. Archatect-in-Chief),
63, on 29th; and Prof. Hudson Beare, of Edin. Uni.
(first S. Aus. Scholar), 72, on 30th.
The Bulletin is sorry to report that its
old friend Edward Dyson is still on the sick
list in Melbourne after a lion-hearted
struggle running into years. The recent suc-
cess of his younger brother, Will, with shows
of satirical etchings in London and N’York,
recalls that Edward has considerable skill
with the pencil, though he early dropped it
for the pen, and that both Will and Ambrose
got their first art lessons from him. Edward
drifted into literature from paper-bag manu-
facture. His uncle, Andrew Jack Dyson,
put him in charge of a roomful of girls in
liis factory in Melbourne, and out of his
Observations there came “Fact’ry ’Ands.”
His wife was Dorothy Boyes, whose sister,
Mrs. Russell Jackson, is well known to
Bulletin readers for her caricatures in clay
of Ghandi and other celebrities.
Of the 99 members of the two Houses _of
Vic. Parliament only a dozen are University
men. Of these there are four lawyers and
one med. in the Assembly, and three lawyers
and one med. in the Council. The other
three did not take any professional degrees.
Kent Hughes was a Rhodes Scholar, but his
light does not dazzle the Assembly unduly.
Harvey Patterson was one of the sheep-
men who wore lucky enough to live among the
desolate West Darling saltbush when Charley
Rasp discovered Broken Hill. But Broken
Hill wasn’t the first discovery ; prospectors
were roaming around for a couple of years
before the big blow was proved. Most of
the squatters were kind enough to the wan-
derers, but one or two, here and there, cut
up rough when fences were strapped down ;
and that’s how one of them got the name of
“Hungry” Patterson. But, if he ever de-
served it, he didn’t go on deserving it after
lie had bought into the big show in the
middle ’eighties and become one of its first
directors and largest shareholders. He was
on the board most of his life afterwards, but
was in England when he died a few days ago.
W. A. Deacon, Queensland’s Minister for
Lands, should know something of his job,
for he comes of farming stock long estab-
lished in Queensland, and lias himself been
all his life on the land in the Allora district
of the Darling Downs, where he was born,
lie first went to Parliament for the Cun-
ningham electorate in 1920, and has repre-
Queensland’s Lands Minister DEACON.
sented it ever since. He has been a con-
spicuous success as Minister for Lands, and
has been largely responsible for the policy of
extending leases and lightening rent and
interest charges in connection with the farm-
ing and grazing industries —a relief which
has done so much to improve conditions in
Queensland.
Francis Mary Redwood, Archbishop of
Wellington (M.L.), the oldest living prelate
of the R. C. Church, is on a visit to Sydney.
The venerable ecclesiastic kept his 92nd
birthday last month. He was born in Staf-
fordshire, came across the world with his
pareiats at 11 (when Maoriland had only just
become a separate colony), began his educa-
tion at Nelson and finished it in France and
li-eland. Fifty-seven years ago he was
appointed Bishop of Wellington, and 44 yeai-s
ago Archbishop.
Lance Fallaw, the new associate-editor of
“S. M. Herald,” is that rather rare hir’d an
experienced working journalist who is at the
same time a poet of culture and distinction.
As a young man in South Africa he was one
of the pioneers of what is nowadays a well-
established school of Afrikander verse, to
which his own work is not the least distin-
guished contribution. His journalistic
experience in Australia lias been a varied
one, ranging from the editorship of the
Charters Towers “Telegraph” and the
Cairns “Post” to that of the “Geelong
Advertiser,” from which he came to the
“Herald” as leader-writer.
“C.Q.”: The cabled yarn about the late
Archdeacon Colley having seen the ghost
of John Pomeroy, the inventor of the ex-
plosive bullets which destroyed the first
Zeppelin over London, is not believed
by the proprietor of a pie-and-coffee
stall which stands all night in the vicinity
of St. Taul’s Cathedral in Melbourne. The
reason for his in-
credulity is that
he is the inventor
himself. Pomeroy,
who was a farmer
in Maoriland in
his youth, drew
£26,000 from a
grateful nation for
his discovery, lost
half of it in fresh
experiments an d
the rest in litiga-
tion and invest-
ments in U.S.A.
He took to selling-
pies in Melbourne
because it is a
quiet, dignified and
interesting voca-
tion which brings
him in contact
with much varied
human nature and
leaves him with
plenty of leisure in
the daytime to con-
tinue his scientific
pursuits.
One of the bast
known of Austra-
lian aviators is Lee
Murray, who was
fed by the Vic.
Aero Club the
other day before
his departure to
the Cold Land,
where he will act
as liaison officer
between British
manufacturers and
Australian buyers.
Murray is senior
vice-president of
the Aero Club, and
helps to run Blue
Taxis, a co. which
S. W. JEFFRIES, an
Adelaide lawyer, form-
erly a very useful
Liberal M.P., the new
chairman of the Con-
stitutional Club in his
native city.
is helping to introduce the Contineaital Sun-
day by giving short rides to citizens on
Sabbath afternoons. He pi’oposes to have a
’busman’s holiday by flying 5000 miles across
America in his own machine.
The new Tas. Assembly has five ex-
soldiers. Three are Ministerialists—Attorney-
General Baker, D. 5.0., who was a reporter
before the war; Barber, who saw service in
India, settled in Tas. 10 years ago, and has
worn the bunny-skin as Mayor of Launces-
ton ; and Marriott, who achieved a cap-
taincy with the A.1.F., and lost his sight.
He is now farming. Of the Labor pair,
Davies (born on or about the. old Tasmania
mine, where his dad was one of the heads)
graduated at Ballarat School of Mines, en-
listed in England, rose to the rank of
major in the Royal Engineers, and was
chief chemical adviser to the Allied Army
in N. Russia. He is now a sheep-farmer.
Dwyer is a Huon native, who won his V.C.
with the machine-gun corps and now runs
a sawmill at New Norfolk.
There are now four lawyers in the Speck’s
Assembly: Attorney-General Baker, Labor-
leader Ogilvie, ex-police-magistrate Turner,
( partner in the same legal firm as the
Attorney-General) and Lew Atkinson, who
was a small-town solicitor before starting
his 23-years-long M.H.R.-ship in 1906. There
are also four ex-Federal members: Grant,
who held for a time the Senate seat vacated
by George Foster in 1825; Seabrook, Atkin-
son and Jensen, who fell into and out of one
of Hughes’s war-time Cabinets.
There have been plenty of schoolteachers in
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party, but
the only full-fledged teacher who has held
the Education portfolio is Arthur Griffith,
whose readmission to the movement is bit-
terly debated every year at the A.L.P. Easter
Conference. Griffith was at Scotch College,
Melbourne, and put in nine years on the
staff of Sydney Grammar School. Geoi’ge
Beeby (solicitor). Ambrose Carmichael
(accountant) and Tom Mutch (journalist)
all held the post at one time or another, but
previously they had never got beyond being
pupil teachers. Other Ministers of Educa-
tion in Labor Governments were Fred
Flowers, a painter, and Billy Holman, who
was Minister for nine days in 1915; the
present occupant, Billy Davies, was a miner.
Major-General J. 11. Bruche, Australian
representative on the Imperial General Staff
since 1929, returned the other day to duty
in the C.M.F. A Victorian, he was at
Scotch College, Melbourne, and took up the
law for a profession, but the South African
War turned him to soldiering, and he en-
tered the Federal permanent forces. He was
chief of staff in Queensland in 1914, and
was Commandant of Westralia for a pei’iod
before going to France. He has been spoken
of as a likely Inspector-General of the Aus-
tralian Forces, but is now tipped as the
new head of the Military College in Sydney.
Eben Allen, dead in Perth at 63, combined
auctioneering with Parliamentary activities
for half a dozen years; he sat from 1911
to 1917 for the comfortable West Perth
constituency, about the only metropolitan
electorate Labor has never had a hope of
capturing. It was Draper (now a Supreme
Court Judge) who dispossessed him of at,
and Draper in his turn had to make way
for Edith Cowan, the first woman elected
to an Australian Parliament. She lasted
only one term ; a Rhodes Scholar in T. A.
Davy, the Attorney-General in the present*
Mitchell Cabinet, secured and holds the local
Toorak.
E. .1. Hamilton, who succeeds the late
Brigadier-General Elliott as Melbourne city
solicitoi-, is a member of the legal firm of
Malleson, Stewart, Stawell and NankiveU.
The runners-up were F. P. Dei’ham, W. H.
Downing and F. W. Eggleston, ex-Attorney-
General.
A sturdy Maorilander was Pat. Mulcahy,
who recently reported at the Elysian orderly-
room, at 80. A peaceful Wellington citizen,
he put down his pipe one day when he heard
his two sons were killed in France and went
to find “the Germans who killed them.” Then
65, he wa,s accepted for service as 20 years
younger, and served through until the
Armistice. In Wellington again, the fine old
man went back to his job as a City Council
gardener, and was still with the hoe when
the end came.
John Caiman (“Jack the Horsebreaker”)
has taken his last ride on the Southern
Tableland (N.S.W.). In the ’seventies,
when head stockman and leading drover on
Bibbenluke station, he was the champion
rouglirider of the Monaro, where the good
riders have always been numerous. Some-
times he took time off from the saddle to
go prospecting, and he was one of the first
on the Garangula goldfields. He was 92 at
the finish.
Never having attended school when a
child —he had to go to work years before
he reached his teens —Bob Solly, M.L.A.
(Vic.), has never lost, a chance of providing
educational opportunities for others. For
33 years he has been on the couiacil of the
Workingmen’s (Melbourne Tech.) College,
and he is one of the Assembly’s representa-
tives on the University Council. The Uni.
is in his constituency (Carlton). Wetten-
hall, M.L.A., of the Cocky party, whose
association with the ’Varsity didn’t extend
beyond matriculation stage, and Jones,
M.L.C., Works Minister, who was unable
to reach even high-school standard in his
boyhood, are the other two Parliamentary
members of the Uni. Council.
Grattan Grey, who was born in County
Down, Ireland, 84 years ago and died in
Melbourne the other day, had seen a deal
of the Australasian Inky Way. He began
as a lad on the “Lyttelton Times” (M.L.),
exchanging the job for one on the “Hansard”
staff, of which he rose to be chief. After
a spell in London he turned up in Perth as
editor of the “W.A. Record” and subse-
quently of the “Morning Herald, finishing
up his journalistic career on a Lismore
(N.S.W.) daily. Grattan was a voluminous
writer, and a discursive speaker who seldom
missed a meeting held to demand justice for
Ireland in the pre-H‘ome Rule days.
A father and son went up together at
Hobart the other day to get their B.Sc.
degree. Harry Warlow Davies, the father,
was already an engineering graduate of
Sydney; he is a son of a former learned
Sydney Congregationalist, and is in the ser-
vice of Electrolytic Zinc. The son is looking
the same way.
Ernest Rutherford, who grew up at
Nelson, in Maoriland, where he was born,
and afterwards went down to Christchurch
to school, has
made his first
speech in the
House of
Lords —on a
scientific sub-
ject, of course.
He thinks it
tremendously
important that
Britain should
work on the
problem of ex-
tracting motor
fuel from coal:
it can’t at
present be
done to pay,
though he sug-
gests that the
margin is not
wide. Present
price of petrol
in England is
Is. 2d. Lord
Rut herford,
who is just on
60, is, among
other things,
president of
the Royal So-
ciety, and the
o u t s t anding
British autho-
rity on radio-
activity. He
is the first
Maoriland’s New Lord.
Australasian raised to the peerage for liis
scientific work.
Senator Pearce, whom somebody impolitely
described the other day as “a bitter and vin-
dictive Labor turncoat,” was wont to use
very similar language about Laborites who
’verted in the years before he himself cut
loose from the party. It is a curious fact
that the Labor politician who is most
vehement in denouncing others as recreants
and renegades generally goes the same way
himself sooner or later and gets a dose of
his own medicine. A desire was once ex-
pressed in Westralia, after the late Harry
Daglish flung up the State Labor leadership,
that Pearce should step down from the
Federal arena and take over the job. Barkis
proved unwilling, but that didn’t, lessen his
virtuous horror at the contemplation of Dag-
lish’s apostasy, and the same emotion has
overcome him on many occasions since.
Small wonder that it should overcome other
people, contemplating the knighted and
reactionary Pearce.
Robert Stevens took the risk of matri-
mony again in Melbourne the other day
after being a widower longer than he is
able to remember. The bridegroom is 101
and said “I will” from an invalid’s cot in
the Old People’s Home. The bride is 68.
John Taylor, dead at 76, was one of a
family of pastoralists associated with the
Roma district, where the first-comers took up
Merino Downs in the early ’seventies.
Victorian-born, he came to Queensland as a
lad, and with his brothers gradually added
other properties to the original holding. He
was a notable breeder of fine-wool sheep,
and the pioneer of wheat-growing on the
Maranoa.
Jim Concannon was given “Plum” Willis’s
job in the Lang Ministry, and though he is
now in receipt of a fat pay-envelope (he was
hon. Minister previously) he has to put up
with a bit to earn it. As Government leader
in the Upper House it is his job to coax
Councillors to give their approval to bills
sent up from down below, and you might as
well try to find favor for toasters and
grillers in Hell. He is further troubled by
a split in the Upper House Labor Caucus
over the “Lang plan.” Concannon is an
CONG ANNON, Willis’s successor in N.S.W.
Leg. Council.
earnest and industrious young man, but he
is no match for the wily veterans opposed
to his party nor for the diplomats within
the movement. Drummoyne, where he lives,
thinks a lot of the sober ex-civil servant
and union secretary, and would have been
pleased to make him an M.L.A. But he
stuck to his seat in the Upper House, allow-
ing Dave McLelland, of the Blacksmiths’
Union, to win Drummoyne; and iu the long
run James secured a higher reward.
Barstow, the just-retired Clerk-Assist-
ant of Vic. Upper House, could tell
some piquant stories of the pleas and sub-
terfuges resorted to by social climbers to
obtain invitations to functions at which
Royalties were entertained. His connec-
tion with such affairs began when
the present King (then Duke of Cornwall)
was in Melbourne, 30 years ago. He had
also a hand in the details for the two calls
from Uncle Sam’s fleet in 1908 and 1925,
and the pilgrimages to these shores of the
Prince of Wales in 1920 and the Yorks in
1927. Barstow could be blunt as well as
polite, and there were occasions when recep-
tion committees regarded his bluntness as a
valuable asset.
Lt.-Colonel Goodwin, who topped the poll
in the election for the Canberra Advisory
Council, had previously been beaten, once
for the Council and twice for the position
of elected representative on the Federal
Capital Commission. He has done good
work for Canberra’s unemployed for months
past, and his poll on this occasion was a
record for these contests. Colonel Good-
win succeeded C. R. Scrivener as the Com-
monwealth’s Surveyor-General in 1915, and
six years later was appointed to the Federal
Capital Advisory Committee, whose job was
to speed up the building of Canberra. This
committee presently surrendered control to
the Federal Capital Commission under John
Butters.
Dunedin takes a good citizen from Adel-
aide in Dr. Bernard Dawson, who gets the
new Chair of Gynaecology in the University
of M.L. He came to Australia with London
degrees about 20 years ago, and has done
good work in hospitals and ’Varsity in S.A.
The rest of this year he is to spend freshen-
ing up his medical knowledge in Europe.
Pushed out of the, civil service in S.A.
under the 65-year-old clause, Trice Weir,
who has given half a century to it except for
an interlude when he commanded the 10th
in the Anzac Landing. He takes the rank
of Brigadier-General into retirement with
him.
Donald Cameron, chairman of Harold
Clapp’s staff board since 1923, is the man
who marshalled the evidence which re-
sulted in 10 p.c. being knocked oil
the wages of 22,000 Vic. railwaymen.
Cameron is a vigorous administrator;
he helped to establish. the probationary-
classes which give lad porters and raw juni-
ors a working knowledge of their duties, and
he was at the back of the scheme by virtue
of which promising apprentices get free
courses at the Workingmen’s College and
Melbourne University. The outspoken public
utterances of his Trades Hall namesake arc
a source of melancholy interest to him: he
has to take the blame for most of them.
Fred Johns, who has written more endur-
ing paragraphs about Australians than any-
one in the country, was born in Michigan
(U.S.A.), of Cornish parents. 62 years ago.
He arrived in Adelaide at 16. and was on
the “Register” for 30 years before becom-
ing chief of the ‘'Hansard”' staff. Ilis “Notable
Australians” was the first Of his biographical
series, followed by “Australasia’s Prominent-
People” and “Who’s Who in Australia.”
There is no pressman in the Commonwealth
so sparing of copy paper; his handwriting
is so minute that the task of inscribing the
Lord’s Prayer on a piece of paper the size
of a sixpence would hardly be beyond him.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital ar.d Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. "Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (9£ p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1,376,625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares, £163,164.. 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares, £14,739.. 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529.. 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,264 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2.644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 60,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 656,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
(8* p.c.).
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
Earnings are derived mainly from the dif-
ference between advance and deposit rates
and the margins between buying and selling
prices in the exchange market; also there
are nice, steady pickings from inter-State
clearances. Last year a contraction of
£1,194,073 in the bills figures and of
£2,253,237 in deposits was accompanied by
a drop of £1,843,392 in advances and
£844,969 in liquids. These movements, the
fall in the value of securities, which has been
aggravated by frozen market outlets, the
meagre earnings of producers and others, the
inelastic nature of overhead, for which the
growth in taxation is largely responsible,
and the drift in the public accounts all
helped to make the picture dull.
The board, after making whatever pro-
vision was considered necessary for contin-
gencies, wrote gross profits £28,168 short of
the previous year’s. This and the growth
of the business over the last decade, and
other things, are illustrated in the next
table:—
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525,491
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1925.. 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
1928.. 5,000,000 3,148,495 1,548,480 908,079
1929.. 5,000,000 3,257,773 1,602,091 942,813
1930.. 5,000,000 3,362,907 1,624,924 969,790
1931.. 5,000,000 3,449,113 1,596,756 1,035,650
There was a saving of nearly £7OOO in
management charges (£841,869), but the tax
bill (£193,682) was over £72,000 heavier.
Thus the net result was £93,928 lighter,
being 11.2 p.c. on capital compared with
13.1, 13.2, 12.8, 14.5 and 14.2 p.c. back to
1925. In the circumstances it is not sur-
prising that the board decided to conserve
the co.’s resources, and therefore chipped a
point off the interim div., and then another
one off the final distribution, reducing it to
8 p.c. p.a. and making 8$ p.c. for the year.
When the books closed there was £3,449,113
of reserves openly assisting the share capital;
on the two combined the net result was
6.6 p.c. It takes only 4.7 p.c. to cover an
8 p.c. div.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a sound
financial structure, and trading conditions
are refleeted by the movements :—
1920. 1930. 1931.
Notes .. .. £49,809 £47,853 £47,827
Bills, etc. .. 962,908 1,432,135 238,062
Free deposits '.. 11,926,167 11,075,424 10,064,536
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 24,483,890 23,241,541
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 10,782,644 9,937,675
Advances . . 13,903,139 33,614,797 31,671,405
Premises, etc. .. 643,636 1,354,767 1,418,757
The sharp contraction in the bills figures
is due largely to the reduction of imports
Of the shrinkage in deposits £1,010,888
was free money and £1,242,349 was interest-
bearing. Amongst other things, it suggests
that traders generally are operating on
lighter working capital, and, in some cases,
consuming previously accumulated fat. The
movement, which was more or less general,
is partly interwoven with the reduction in
advances. These were 95.1 p.c. of the de-
posits .as against 86 p.c. two years ago.
Over the last decade £465,000 has been
openly struck off the book value of premises.
At March 31 the bank was holding only
£3 19s. 6d. of the public’s money for
every £1 of * its own as against £4
14s. 3d. two years earlier’. Depositors
and others could see 29.5 p.c. of their money
in liquids compared with 29.1 p.c. at the
close of accounts in 1930. The ratio of cash
to deposits (19.3 p.c.) was 4.9 p.c. stronger.
Altogether they are satisfactory figures.
On the market the £lO fully-paids are
priced at £l2, and the £8 shares paid to £5
at £6. The return in each case is 6.7 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to 335. 9d. in net tangibles per
pound of paid capital.
Bushell’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To-Re-
jlar., Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £> £ £ £
i 50,139
1921.. 14,456 4326 4 p.c. = 4,509 5,621 44.518
1922.. 31,674 5600 10 „ „ 11,273 14,801 29,717
1923.. 30,092 6600 10.6 „ „ 11,899 12,593 17,124
1924.. 36,836 6600 16.6 „ „ 18,789 12,447 4,677
Reserve taken in, £1989 .. .. 2,688
Reserves.
1925.. 41,315 5600 11.1 p.c.=12,526 23,189 20,501
1926.. 43,120 5600 11.1 „ ~12,526 24,994 45,495
Reserves taken in, £63,093 .. .. 108,588
1927.. 49,899 5600 16.6 p.e.=18,790 25,509 134,097
1928.. 62,076 5600 16.6 „„ 18,789 37,687 171,784
P. and L.
Ali reserves lumped with Sundry Creditors. Balance.
Transferred to Reserves .. .. 9,900
1929.. 43,951 5600 16.6 p.c.=18,789 19,562 29,463
Transferred to Reserves, £10,000.. 19,463
1930.. 47,476 6600 15.8 p.c.=35,869 6007 25,470
Transferred to Reserves, £lO,OOO .. 15,470
1931.. 28,646 5600 10 p.c.=22,G60 386 15,856
Australia’s tea-drinking habits have brewed
some tasty profits for this co. It had been
in the business for over a quarter of a cen-
tury before the public became interested in
1920, when £64,000 of fresh pref. capital
was gathered. Over the next eight years
the ords. averaged a wink over 12 p.c., and
a deficit of £50,139 was transformed into
reserves _of £171,784. Then followed a
change in the method of presenting the
accounts, whereupon neither outside liabili-
ties nor so much of the reserves as were
formerly on view could be definitely ascer-
tained, and £113,870 of gift scrip was scattered
amongst the ords. That lifted paid capital
to its present figure—£296,6ol in 70,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 239,127 ords.; of the
latter 125,257 are paid to 18s. and the
balance, which comprise the gift, are fully
paid to £l.
Up to that point profits in the table in-
clude unexplained additions to reserves
(£24,206 in 1928) ; thereafter they are the
•declared amounts, after paying all exes, and
providing for contingencies, etc. The sharp
contraction of £18,830 in last year’s figure
was due to the general slump in business
and higher exchange and taxation charges.
Wlien the prefs. had boon attended to there
was enough to show 10.1 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 18.4 p.c. in the previous term,
so the div. was reduced from 15.8 to 10
p.c. Still, the 10 p.c. called for £3871 more
than 16.6 p.c. did a couple of years ago.
The liquid position is obscured by the
grouping of outside liabilities and all re-
serves in one shockingly untidy entry. The
item shrank £79,559 last year:—
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital £182,731 £182,731 £296,601 £296,601
Liabilities .. 250,810 409,123 508,418* 428,859*
p P S iB ltc. .. ‘ ‘ 38*,157 } 106 ’ 628 128 * 029 117 > 364
Stocks .. 95,021 142,987 168,083 171,422
Book debts 64,538 83,256 64,600 45,113
Investments,
etc. .. 222,778 447,094 451,489 376,548
reserves.
Investments, etc., which include a lot of
Commonwealth Government paper, were
drawn upon for £74,941, apparently to
reduce the debt, which consists largely of
“Eastern” drafts, necessary on account of
the co.’s heavy Asiatic purchases. The
reduction of £10,665 in the book value of
fixed assets suggests that depreciation has
not been overlooked.
Public trading in the scrip is confined to
the prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative
8 p.c. and have priority as to capital. The
exact amount of net tangible backing can-
not be stated, but there is over £3 per share
visible. Last year’s profit was more than
five times their annual requirements. At
225. lOd. they return 7.7 p.c.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit. 7$ p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~ 100,000 40,697 20,414
1929.. 200.404 66,250 8 „ ~ 100,000 44,154 64,568
1930.. 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 81,897
The general slump in business was only
gathering momentum wffien the books were
ruled off in 1930; it continued to gain force
throughout the last term. Thus a heavy
fall in turnover was accompanied by a steady
decline in prices, necessitating cuts in some
lines to ensure quick clearances. Exchange
and tariff adjustments added to the landed
cost of imports, while extra taxes of one
kind and another made overhead difficult to
restrain.
The management, however, snapped up the
liquidation stocks of the Civil Service Stores
and Sparlings during the year, and appa-
rently the lot and more were cleared before
the accounts closed—stocks were £121.355
lighter than at the previous balance. The
money that thus became available could not
bo profitably re-employed in the business, so
£lOO,OOO (face value) of 7 p.c. first mortgage
debentures (held mainly by the Hordern
family) were redeemed, thus saving the co.
£7OOO p.a. in interest.
Half-way through the term the position
looked good enough to hand the ords. 2 p.c.
But at the end of the twelvemonth, after
meeting all trading exes., allowing for depre-
ciation, eta, and a full year’s debenture in-
terest (£70,000), the declared net result was
£970 short of the pref. requirements, so
£25,970 of the reserves had to be rubbed out,
reducing them to £81,897. They are labelled
nominal in the table because the £272,374
(=4s. 6d. per ord. share) originally paid for
the very extensive goodwill is lumped with
fixed assets in the sheet. In the previous
term there was enough, after allowing for the
pref. div., to show 10.4 p.c. on the £1,250,000
of ord. capital compared with 11.5, 11.3 and
10.9 p.c. back to the time when the co. took
over the business.
Precisely how the co. will come through the
difficult years which appear to be ahead is, of
course, impossible to say. But it has a very
capable management, strong connections in
the country, handles a large slice of city
trade and is well equipped for a struggle, as
this next comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows: —•
1927. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000*
Sundry creditors 249,210 179,916 138,430
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc. 1,750,237 1,766,393 1,749,262
Stocks .. .. 1,130,878 946,352 824,997
Book debts, cash,
etc 441,777 640,663 674,193*
*lndudes £lOO,OOO of debentures held by
trustees on behalf of the co.
Leaving the book entry in respect of the
£lOO,OOO of debentures out of the reckoning,
the amount coming to trade creditors was
more than four times covered by book debts,
cash, investments, etc., at Feb. 25; a year
earlier over half this composite item con-
sisted of Federal Government securities.
Obviously much depends upon the figure at
which stocks appear. As for fixed assets,
the Svdney properties, including the big pile
on Brickfield Hill, are in at 1920 valuations,
less whatever has been struck off for depre-
ciation since; those in London were taken
over on the basis of a valuation made in
1912. But, though these valuations may be
low, some of the premises may prove to
be in excess of trade requirements for a
while, in which case the weight of the deben-
ture debt will make itself felt.
The trend of prices is still downward, while
taxation continues to mount; results will
largely depend upon the management’s success
in restraining overhead. The immediate out-
look is. obscured by political developments,
which have greatly aggravated the reduction
in spending, especially in N. S. Wales, where
legislative proposals have brought about busi-
ness paralysis. Thus Anthony Hordern’s
pound ords., priced at 18s. lOd. a year ago,
now fetch 10s. 6d. in the market. At that
figure the return would be 7.6 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. Allowing 4s. 6d. a share for good-
will, the visible backing is 16s. lid. in net
tangibles. The prefs., which at 17s. 6d.
return 8.5 p.c., are covered by 28s. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 10,298 7 p.c. = 9,375 923 7,297
1922.. 17,675 8£ „ „ 11,260 6325 13,622
1923.. 27,254 14J „ „ 18,750 8504 22,126
Bonus from holdings, £15,470 .. .. 37,596
1924.. 22,821 141 p.c. = 18,750 4071 41,667
Reserves capitalised, £18,750 .. .. 22,917
Bonus from holdings, £9,646 .. .. 32,663
1925.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,646
1926.. 20,835 121 „ „ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 124 „ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47,989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930. . 13,198 10 „ „ 16,000 48,172
Loss.
1931.. 1,858 21 „ „ 3,750 - 42,564
Over the decade to the close of accounts in
1930 divs. averaged 10.9 p.c., sweetened with
a small capitalisation (2s. per share) in
1924. But earnings during that time were
swollen by boom conditions, so the figures
are not much of a guide to the future. For
the 12 months to March 31 the value of
building permits for dwellings issued in
Greater Melbourne was £668,054 compared
with £3,245,630 and £4,295,889 for each of
the two preceding years. For the correspond-
ing periods the figures for commercial build-
ings, in the construction of which bricks
are out of date, were £608,562, £1,368,533
and £3,563,520 respectively.
The co. ceased manufacturing before the
last term was half-way through, and some
of the bricks were still in the yard when
the books closed. There was thus an abrupt
contraction of £15,027 in gross profits
(£2077) ; but there was little change in exes.
(£3935), so a loss of £lB5B showed up. And
since an interim div. of 2$ p.c. was paid,
£5608 of the reserves had to be rubbed out.
No less than £30,576 of the lay-by represents
bonus shares received on holdings in other
cos. since 1923; thus advancing the book
value of these holdings to £41,821 at the
close of last accounts. Part of the £88,58*-
at which freeholds appear has contributed
directly to revenue.
The financial position slipped, of course,
though it is still comfortable, as this next
table shows:—•
1923. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £131,250 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 2,949 4,823 1,498 1,602
Freeholds .. 101,981 88,230 88,746 88,582
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 35,604 35,583
Stocks.. .. 4,047 2,447 3,251 1,337
Book debts .. 3,884 11,861 9,596 6,989
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. .. 15,196 33,060 28,151 19,853
Excluding shares but including stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£26,577) was
£12,921 lighter than at the previous balance.
Book debts are mainly balances due on the
sale of old properties. Though a lot of
money has been spent on plant of recent
years, only £4461 has been added to its book
value since 1923. Its real worth, however,
is what it can earn; too much notice there-
fore need not be taken of the net tangible
backing of 255. Bd. per share. For the
scrip, fully paid to £l, which fetched 255.
a year ago, 12s. is asked without attracting
buyers.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 5,411 10 p.c.- 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. 6,376 10 „ „ 4000 2376 16,127
1923.. 7,696 10 „ „ 4000 3696 19,823
1924.. 7,969 10.,, „ 4000 3969 23,792
Provident fund, £lOOO .. .. 22,792
1925.. 7,749 10 p.e. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ „ 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928 . 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 ( qRI , o R no.
Provident fundi £lOOO J 3514 36,084
1929. . 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 ( ,-.,0,
Provident fund, £lOOO ( 1,04 47,131
A record number of new estates came into the
care of this little Adelaide trustee co. last
year. But the sharp fall in the value of
all kinds of property, and the lighter income
from estates, especially pastoral interests,
affected corpus, agency and other commission
earnings. Still, the trusts put on the books
exceeded the value of those wound up by
£237,957, which was about half the previous
year’s growth :—•
Gross Exes. t>-c. of
Trusts. Profits. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1925.. 6,213,625 29,203 20,454 70.0 „
1926.. 7,281,377 31,772 23,109 72.7 „
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24,120 69.9 „
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3 „
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,261 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
It cost an extra £468 to handle the larger
business, and commission earnings (£30,555)
were £1244 lighter. Interest (£9947)
brought in an additional £376, leaving the
net result at 13 p.c. on capital as against 14.5
p.c. for the previous year. Interest alone
was equal to 11 p.c. on capital, which
gives the 10 p.c. div. a nice appearance. But
in these troubled times no div. is secure. The
proposed Federal tax of 3s. 6d. in the £ on
incomes from Government securities would
reduce the actual return on a 5$ p.e. bond,
bought at par, to 4$ p.c.
Out of a balance-sheet total of £145,631
no less than £116,036 was represented by
Government paper at March 31. All but
£6OO of the balance was in book debts and
cash; the eo. has no premises of its own.
Creditors do not figure in the sheet.
Much of the co.’s success has been due
to the support and influence of the parent,
Elder, Smith and Co. The policy has been
to put out scrip as the business expanded.
Thus £70,000 has been added to paid capital
over the last decade, making it £90,000 in
360,000 £1 shares paid to ss. But share
holders may have to wait a while for further
pickings of this kind.
Over the last 12 months the price of the
scrip has eased from 11s. 3d. to 9s. Bd. in
the market: allowing for the final div. the
return at the lower figure is 5.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 7s. 7d.
in net tangibles.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re. Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 21,161 10 p.c. = 19,225 1936 7,716
1923.. 21,357 10 „ „ 19,244 2013 9,829
1924.. 23,811 10 „ „ 19,282 4529 14,358
1925.. 25,062 10 „ „ 19,282 5880 20,138
1926.. 26,141 10 „ „ 21,123 5018 25,156
1927.. 25,117 10 „ „ 21,912 3205 28,361
1928.. 21,633 9 „ „ 19,720 1913 30,274
1929.. 16,149 7 „ „ 15,338 811 31,085
1930.. 7,746 21 „ „ 5,478 2268 33,353
Provision for bad debts, £15,000. . 18,353
Loss.
1931.. 4,881 Nil 13,472
With the scattering of loan funds came a
craze for credit-buying, and musical-instru-
ment retailers, trading largely on t.-p.
terms, did well. Thus Nicholsons, which .
(Continued on page 16.)


ask
lili
Ms
*
NO ALTERATION
IN PRICE QUALITY
OR QUANTITX OF
DE RJESZKE
jtrmy Club
44
THE GREYS
CIGARETTE/
Original imported quality Guaranteed by
GODFREY PHILLIPS (AUST.) PTY LTD.
o
6
*
9
(OV
X
t
\6
4M.3


The Savings Bank
Suspension.
On April 23 the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. sus-
pended payments.
Are any of the other banks
likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public
accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so,
who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to
come through with the best
results?
These, and many other prob-
lems of vital interest, are dis-
cussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR MAY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIt ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The non-corrosive qualities of Pioneer Wood Pipe
make it an ideal conduit for the conveyance of any
type of fluid, for the strongest acids or alkalies will
not harm it. For water supply it is to be highly
recommended, for it maintains constant purity of
the supply. Durable, light, easy and cheap to handle,
lay, freight and transport, there is much to recom-
mend this modern conduit to those responsible for
the specification of pipe lines for any purpose. Illus-
trated literature is available from the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. — Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/ie Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-use
Detonators
Cartridges
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esci s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people's own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £ 1
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
Cjittinoitwealll) SavfnasJßanh of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
paid an average of 6.6 p.c. for the four years
to Sept. 30, 1916, lifted the div. to 10 p.c.
again, and kept it steady for the next
decade. Now that the scattering has ceased
dealers in all these lines are feeling
the pinch severely. Moreover, competition
has sharpened, re-possessions have brought
a flood of second-hand instruments into the
market, while the debts problem has become
perplexing; and forced sales of stocks by
small importers and the rise in popularity
of wireless have aggravated the troubles.
So, from one cause and another, the co.’s
gross profits have stepped down from
£113,297 three years ago to £38,931 for
the last term, when the slip was £30,468.
Exes. (£43,812) were got. back £17,541, but
it was not enough, and a loss of £4BBl
showed up; it was the first in the co.’s his-
tory. That is disregarding £15,000 trans-
ferred on the advice of the auditor from
general reserves to a specific account to pro-
vide for possible losses on hire-purchase
agreements. Apart from that the visible
protection for the £219,114 of paid capital
was £13,472 at March 31.
Before the books closed in 1930 the co.
sold its Pitt-street freehold and bought an-
other in George-street. The profit on the
deal was £75,689, which was tucked away
among inner reserves by striking that amount
off the book value of the new premises. Last
year £45,300 was paid off the outside debt,
which is still substantial, as this next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:—
Mar.,’2s. Mar.,’29. Mar.,’3o. Mar.,’3l.
Paid capital.. £192,820 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage .. 28,500 99,500 94,500 89,500
Overdraft . . 43,499 73,298 68,917 58,145
Other liabilities 152,548 117,660 58,897 29,369
Stocks, hire
a g r eements,
book debts 325,518 312,458 269,578 223,942
Plant, etc. .. 5,056 1,888 1,715 1,068
Freeholds .. 94,199 219,017 190,556 186,810
Sundry assets. .22,873 14,367 13,434 13,281
The overdraft was reduced by £10,772, the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£29,528 and the mortgage by £5OOO. To do
this stocks and hire agreements—an untidy
entry—were worked down £45,636, though
whether by > actual repayments or discount-
ing is not visible from the published figures.
Completion of these agreements will release
spending power previously frozen. The more
or less liquid surplus (£47,937, excluding
shares) was only £489 lighter than at the
previous balance. The co.’s interest in the
Concord Piano Co., in at £12,272, makes
it largely independent of the imported
article.
The current year’s result will largely de-
pend upon whether the allowance for con-
tingencies proves to be adequate. On the
market the fully-paids fetch ss. as against
225. 9d. two years ago. Each pound of
paid capital is covered by net tangibles with
a book value of 21s. 4d.
Australian Shale Oil Corp. has decided
to put up the shutters. The co., which issued
£119,686 worth of scrip, was formed in 1924
to work the Latrobe (Tas.) shales with
a Bronder retort. This had given satis-
factory results as a small unit, but proved
unprofitable when worked on a commercial
scale. Then, a little over two years ago,
L and N. Brown Coal, an English concern,
came into the venture and undertook to
raise £lOO.OOO of fresh capital and instal its
own retorts. The new plant was delivered
in Tas., but owing to failure to secure the
necessary funds it was never erected. The
Australian Shale co.’s liabilities amount to
about £3000; its only assets are shares in N.
and L. (Tasmania), Ltd. It is hoped to
form another co. to take over and work the
deposits. These have been proved to yield
a highly efficient motor spirit, with lubri-
cants as by-products. Costs have been the
trouble thus far.
* v * #
There is 'talk of an influential Melbourne
group forming a strong co. to operate on
the Bendigo field. A capital of £lOO,OOO has
been mentioned. The move is the outcome
of the report by H. W. Gepp and W. Barag-
wanath. They recommended the Vic. Gov-
ernment to spend up to £50,000 in subsi-
dising the equipment and exploration at
depth of the Central Nell Gwynn, Deborah
and Monument Hill mines. The Central
Nell Gwynn, where a gold-bearing horizon
is expected to be met with between 500 ft.
and 1000 ft., is close to Lansell’s 180 Mile,
on the New Chum line, which was a rich
producer. The Deborah, owned by the New
Deborah Reef Co., is expected to show good
results between 435 ft. and 1000 ft. The
Monument Hill property was drilled by Ben-
digo Amalgamated, whose cash gave out
years ago. Here, hopes are that the deepen-
ing of the shaft from 770 ft. to 1150 ft. will
disclose something worth while. Other
shows thought to be worth consideration are
the Tambour Major, New Moon Group and
Lightning Hill.
The only producers on the field at the
moment are the Ironbark, Hercules and
New Red, White and Blue (Nos. 1 and 2),
all on the Sheepshead line.
* * * *
The Australian metal industries haven’t
cause to give cheers for Mussolini. In
1922 the Italian output of zinc was 3082
tons, and hadn’t been more for years. In
the last four years it has climbed this way:
1927, 7367 tons; 1928, 10,618 tons; 1929.
15,722 tons; 1930. 19,031 tons. The lead
output hasn’t increased to the same extent,
but is much steadier now—hasn’t dropped
under 21,000 tons since 1923. (The “re-
volution” occurred in Nov., 1922.)
* * * *
F. B. Trude, who has run the rule over
New Guinea Options’ property at Adelong
(N.S.W.), says the lode was opened up in
1870, and worked from four shafts over a
length of 300 ft. and down to- 312 ft., where
water caused the show to be abandoned. A
tunnel, driven to cut the ore channel 600 ft.
below the outcrop, has intersected the foot-
wall of the Currajong lode. The intention
is to develop this channel, which is said to
contain some rich shoots, and connect up
the old and new workings. The total output
of gold from the Adelong field, first worked
in i 857, is estimated at 350,0000 z. valued
at over £1,300,000.
* * % *
“Old Warden”: Queensland mining folk
are bucked over recent developments at
North Arm, some 30 miles from the once-
famous Gympie goldfield. The latest crush-
ing of 48 tons from the Golden Surprise
returned 4930 z. of bullion, of which 180 oz.
was gold and the balance silver; the value,
including gold premium, was £9ll. The main
shaft is down over 100 ft., but the crushing
came from the end of a 45ft. drive at the
50ft. level. Eight men are working on the
mine in addition to the members of the syn-
dicate. The latter is negotiating for
flotation of a co. to work the property on
a large scale. The idea is to crosscut the
four or five lines of lode by tunnelling, and
thus open up a decent lot of backs. A
number of other syndicates are prospect-
ing on the line, and on one at least, the
G. P. Extended, a promising formation has
been struck close to the surface.
* * * *
At Mt. Cassidy, near Rockhampton, which
was hailed as likely to develop a big body of
ore, three shafts are being pushed down. The
deepest is 40ft., and the lode is leaving it on
an underlay west. Another shaft is down
22ft., with good ore showing on all walls.
Values are indefinitely stated, but the fact
that there is visible gold provides a crumb
of comfort in the absence of reliable assays.
The gold-hunter's’ camp of 60 men is gone;
only half a dozen men are employed at
present.
* * * *
The Palmer River dredge (N.Q.) is averag-
ing about 250 z. gold per week, which is not
up to expectations. With the present staff
employed something like 40oz. p.w. is needed
to pay working expenses and leave something
for distribution. Light, flaky gold is held to
be responsible for considerable losses, which
manager Walter Baker hopes to largely
eliminate by the installation of a new shaker
plant. Prospects of the co. then paying
its way look promising.
* * * *
“Wau”: Edie Creek held high revel the
other day, when the first crushing plant
which the New Guinea goldfields have seen
was started. The battery has been erected
by Day Dawn New Guinea, Ltd., of whose
property much has been heard for years past.
Crushings should give a definite idea of the
values on this field outside the alluvials.
* * * *
Moonta (S.A.) has spent the £5OOO Fed-
eral Government grant. Forty-three men
were employed, and 1000 tons of 6 per cent,
ore is lying at grass. A shipment of 103
tons, assaying up to 33 per cent, copper,
was marketed, but the return was not enough
to make much difference to funds. East of
the old workings at Milne’s Lode, a 3ft. 6in.
wide body has been driven on for 100 ft. on
the 240 ft. level, the ore assaying 20 per cent,
copper. The same lode has been located
500 ft. lower down. The South Aus. Govern-
ment has applied for a further grant of
£20,000 to enable operations to be continued.
$ * * *
When the price of tin flopped, Adelaide
interests, which had been scratching a
deposit at Mt. Oliver (Tas.), turned their
attention to a bismuth and gold proposition
at Mt. Stormont, in the nor’-west of the
island. Here the bismuth is claimed to be
one of the cleanest deposits in the world,
and there is promise of satisfactory pickings
from gold recoveries. From scwt. of con-
centrates £27 worth of gold was recently
extracted. In the past one of the chief
obstacles to the profitable mining of bis-
muth has been the cost of separating the
metal from the mullock. The co. has spent
about £4BOO on plant, and additional equip-
ment is to be installed.
* * * *
Westralia milled 645,344 tons of ore in
1930 for £1,788,050 worth of gold; an im-
provement of 16,944 tons and £207,629
respectively on the 1929 figures. The average
grade was 55.35., or ss. better than the
previous year’s average; but divs. aggregated
only £31,250, equal to 1.75 p.c. of the total
yield, as against £65,607 in 1929. The
crushings and recoveries of the chief pro-
ducers were; Associated 55,454 tons,
23,7020 z.; Boulder Perseverance 73,672 tons
36,6020 z.; Great Boulder Prop. 91.166 tons;’
65,1980 z.; Lake View and Star 140,797 tons,
132,5780 z.; Sons of Gwalia 103,920 tons,
38,2240 z.; North Kalgurli 31,197 tons,
14,6460 z.; South Kalgurli 59,134 tons,
34,2810 z. Golden Horseshoe got 15,6130 z.
from retreatment! of the old dump.
* * * *
The Arrow Gold Mining Co. has been
formed to work the Fernbank and other
leases at Broad Arrow (W.A.). It has
240,000 shares of ss. each, of which the
vendors take 96,500 paids, 72,500 are offered
and the other 71,000 are in pickle. Geolo-
gist Gibson reports £6 values over a width
of 2ft. near the surface; the lowest point
exposed by the mine workings is 50ft. in
depth. The lode is on the thin side, though
further work may disclose variations either
way.
* * * #
There are two mechanical defects to be
overcome at Wiluna (W.A.) before the
plant can deal with 40,000 tons of ore
monthly. At the moment the tube-grinding
mills cannot cope with output from the pul-
verising plant; this can be adjusted at mod-
erate cost. Also the electric ore hoists take
current at peak periods beyond the capa-
city of the generating plant, which means
enlargement of the electrical power equip-
ment or its replacement by steam winders.
Either remedy will be costly. Bullion worth
£19,133, plus £7300 estimated to have been
absorbed by the plant, was recovered from
18,025 tons of stone last month. The 80
p.c. gold recovery was in excess of the figure
generally anticipated.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s big tailing dump,
which is a landmark at Kalgoorlie and the
source of fearful dust storms, is being sluiced
from the landscape at the rate of 40,000 tons
per month. There was over 2,000,000 tons
in the heap, of which a quarter has been
treated for a yield of £90,000, at a working
cost of £50,000. The plant cost £34,000; a
good balance for divs. appears to remain in
the mass.
* * * *
E. J. T. Pearce, owner of the rich strike
recently made near the old Exchange pub,
Southern Cross (W.A.), has parted with his
discovery to Jack Warwick, manager of
Great Boulder Prop., for £lOOO cash. The
find is close to the granite and greenstone
contact and Fraser’s line of lode, which con-
tained numerous shoots good enough to pay
a fine string of divs. in the past.
* # * %
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Any information re position of policy-
holders in Australian Federal Life Assur-
ance Co. (in liquidation) ? —3412.
In 1924 this co. gave a debenture for
£49,000 over all its assets in favor of the
People’s Prudential Assurance Co. Appli-
cation has been made to the Chief Judge in
Equity by the liquidator of the latter co.
to uphold the debenture as against the claims
of policy-holders in the A.F.L. If the deben-
ture is declared valid there will be nothing
for policy-holders or other creditors of the
A.F.L.
(1) What is the sample herewith? (2)
Use? (3) Present value? (4) Any Sydney
firms buy it? (5) Any vast deposits in
N.S.W.? —3195.
(1) White quartz—practically pure silica.
(2) Silica is principally used as an abrasive
in the manufacture of soaps, etc., and as a
substitute for marble chips. (3) Price
ranges generally from £1 to £1 10s. per ton
on trucks Sydney for pure white quartz.
(4) Austral Rock Milling Co., Gladstone-
street, Newtown, and Minerals, Ltd., Botany-
road, Alexandria, are buyers of silica. (5)
Many deposits occur throughout the State.
What is the meaning of “English Charter ”
as applied to a hank trading in Australia? —
3393.
A chartered co. is a trading corp, enjoy-
ing certain rights and privileges, and bound
by certain obligations, under a special char-
ter granted to it by the sovereign authority
of the State, such charter defining and limit-
ing those rights, privileges and obligations,
and the localities in which they are to be
exercised. The colonisation cos. were char-
tered cos.; from that beginning the practice
extended to cos. engaged in almost any
branch of colonial expansion.
(1) What is the £1 Australian note worth
in England and in foreign countries? (2)
What is the exchange rate per £lOO be-
tween (a) Australia and England, (b)
Australia and M.L., (c) M.L. and England?
(3) Does money going from Australia to
M.L. go direct or through London? —3so7.
(1) In theory it is not worth anything;
a country’s paper is of value only within
its own territory. But in practice you can
change the money: at present the Aus-
tralian £ note is worth nominally about
15s. 3d. The value in other countries is
less on account of the greater risk and cost
of collection. (2) You can buy £lOO in
England for £130! paid in Australia; £lOO
in M.L. for £120! in Australia; or £lOO
in London for £llO or thereabouts in M.L.
But it is difficult to get money moved be-
tween these places: it is especially difficult
to get money sent from M.L. to Australia.
(3) Actually, money is not sent from one
country to another, except in rare cases, and
then only gold is of any value. Exchange
transactions are a matter of a bank buying
money from Jones, the Australian wool-
grower, who is being paid in London, and
selling it to Smith, the Australian importer,
who wants to make payments in London.
Smith pays his money into the bank in
Australia, from which it is paid to Jones.
Jones's money in London is paid into a
bank there and paid out from there to
Smith’s London merchants. Australia-
M.L. exchange transactions are done direct,
not through London.
Amount of Australia’s overseas debt; and
please divide it into debt to bondholders, to
banks and others?, —3420.
As at Sept., 1930, the funded debt was:—
Overseas. Australia.
Commonwealth alone .. £168,211,540 £206,622,235
Commonwealth and States 577,852,888 537,644,099
The figures of funded debt have probably
changed very little since Sept. 30 last. The
short-term debt as at Feb. 28, 1931, was :
London .. .. £38,075,100
Australia .. .. 17,437,000
Total ~ .. £55,512,100
This floating debt was provided as follows:
Commonwealth Bank, Australia, £10,376,000;
ditto, London, £20,125,100; other Australian
banks, London, £2,950,000; ditto, Australia,
£7,061,000; Westminster Bank, London,
£5,000.000; Treasury bills, London (various),
£10,000,000.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Y.C.8.: Have you (1) a copy of pros-
pectus, (2) receipt?... .G.K.R.: A Treasury bill is
a promise to pay issued by the Treasury, carrying
a fixed rate of interest and generally for a short
term.... Loans: (1) Don’t know; it is remotely
possible. (2) Wouldn’t, so far as we can see,
necessarily affect either Savings Bank or notes. (3)
Still prefer Government stock. But the whole posi-
tion is very obscure... .N.D.P.: The property was
thoroughly tested, and, apart from the northern
end, appears to be free from boulders. Whether
prospectus estimates are realised will depend largely
upon whether the plant does what is expected of it.
. ...M.P.: (1) More likely to rise. (2) If safety
of the principal is important, leave it where it is.
. ...C.8.8.: If you mean the Australian Provincial
you needn’t worry about security... .R.D.C.: In the
event of inflation pref. shares with a fixed or
maximum rate of interest would be more seriously
affected than ordinaries... .J.J.W.: (1) Can’t even
guess. (2) No provision was made in the arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Bank for payment of
sustenance allowance at agencies. The £3 a week
can only be obtained at the branch at which the
agency books are kept.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Would not a compulsory reduction of rent,
in certain circumstances, directly relieve un-
employment? A landlord who is fortunate
enough to have solvent tenants, bound by
leases, is usually emphatic in his refusal to
grant a rent reduction. The result is that
the businessman who is so situated is forced
by reason of decreased trade to effect econo-
mies, and the staff is forthwith reduced even
at the expense of efficiency. —“ Treble,” Mt.
Lawley (W.A.).
This disposition to tear up “scraps of
paper” is one of the most disturbing features
of our national life. A contract is entered
into because one man wants to know what
he will get and another what he will pay
over a number of years. Both of them are
prepared to make concessions to that end.
For some time past things have favored the
lessee, as a rule; as soon as they favor the
there is a cry of “Tear up the con-
tract!” We shall never enjoy the world’s
confidence and enjoy the credit we need so
badly while we show this disposition. More
stable price levels ought to be aimed at; they
would supply the answer to half our pro-
blems. But, of course, that problem can’t
be solved except by international action.
A question fired at me every few days and
which seems likely to influence many votes at
next election is the following: What does the
“under dog”—the casual laborer, etc. —stand
to lose by gross inflation? He argues that
he has nothing to lose, that any debts he may
have been fortunate enough to amass will be
wiped out, that at the worst the Government
will still have to provide him with some
kind of. sustenance, and that it will give him
the satisfaction of seeing the comfortably off
pulled out of their comfortable position. How
far is his argument sound? —J. L. C., Kew
(Vic.).
The German experience is the best guide.
Professor Moritz Bonn (“Effects of Currency
Inflation”) wrote; “The purchasing power
of the nation as a whole has gi’eatly de-
creased .... The reduced consumption at
home must bring about a considerable restric-
tion of the output.” Thus manufacture fell
away tremendously. Factories dependent or
partly dependent on imported raw material
closed down. “The class living from the
savings of the past has lost its income,” and
therefore its purchasing power. “During the
period of inflation wages in Germany have
been considerably below wages in countries
competing with her industrially.” “A depre-
dating currency is an obstacle to all efficient
laboi\ The working man has not much in-
centive to extra work when he knows that
tlip purchasing power of his. wages is bound
to evaporate, whatever system of settling and
paying wages may be chosen.” “The average
of short-time workei’s was 24.2 per cent, and
in some unions as high as 66.9 per cent.”
After inflation there must be stabilisation ;
when that happened the wages were “very
low,” and the greatest sufferer then appears
to have been the unskilled laborer. Taxation
was high, but as values had disappeared it
was production that had to bear it, and pro-
duction was not sufficient to maintain the
unemployed at anything like the old standard.
There are still many things about this
exchange business I don’t understand. If
we pay £l3O or more for £lOO, somebody
must get that £3O. Who is it? Hoiv is the
rate determined? A pretty strong case has
been made out against the great financial
interests. Do they fix the rate? —D. C. M..
Lismore (N.S.W.).
Lismore —that’s the centre of a rich dairy-
ing distx-ict. Now Jones had a couple of
cows and he said he would supply milk to
Smith, who has a chicken run, in exchange
for eggs—four pints of milk a day for eight
eggs. That worked out all right until Mrs.
Smith began to notice that Jones’s milk was
getting thinner and thinner, and her kids
were growing leaner and hungrier. She told
Jones that his milk wasn’t worth what it
used to be —that evidently water was getting
into it somehow, and for the future she
would give only six eggs for four pints.
Later on the milk got still poorer, and she
cut it down to five eggs. Exchange had
risen against Jones; to get the old eight
eggs he would now have to hand over nearly
6J pints of the watered-down milk. But
nobody would be getting any advantage out
of it; though, of course, Jones hoped to get
an advantage—and no doubt was getting it
until he was found out. That is inflation:
you gain by it till you are found out. Then,
in paying you, your customers deduct some-
thing for the water. A country puts the
water in variously. It may do it by borrow-
ing tremendously and spending the money on
things that don’t give an adequate return;
and that is what we have done. It may do
it by refusing to tax itself, or by bloating
the public service and the public-service
pay-roll, and accumulating deficits; or,
in bad cases, by setting the printing-
presses going and making money, and
pretending that the piece of printed
paper is worth half a dozen cabbages
and a fat hen and three dozen eggs.
It isn’t worth these things; it is only worth
those things if the man who issues the paper
issues it against something of similar value.
As for the fixation of rates, supply and
demand does that. The premium would go
beyond the present 130 J p.c. if there was
not enough credit in London to meet a
demand for payments in London. In other
words, if there wasn’t enough money lying
in London to the credit of Austi'alians in
payment for butter and things to meet the
requirements of people who wanted to pay
bills in London, the premium would, go
higher.
Bulletin (15/4/’3l) said that with in-
flation there would be a rise in exchange,
involving increased freight rates, and ship-
pers would therefore pay less for wheat, etc.
How could inflation affect the farmer in the
way you mention? The farmer sells one
bushel wheat, value in Loudon, say, 3s. (Eng-
lish). Freight to London, say. Is. (Eng-
lish). Rate of exchange, say, 50 p.c. This
would mean that the shipper would have to
pay Is. 6d. ( Australian ) to meet the bill in
London. The value of the wheat (3s. in
T.ondon) would be 4s. 6d. ( Australian ).
Would nod the farmer get 3s. of inflated
money as against 2s. with exchange at par?
—F. TI. M., Tullamore (N.S.W.).
That wasn’t the point. Overseas shipping
cos. have decided, “in view of the uncer-
tainty of the financial position,” that
“freight on cargo other than refrigerated
cargo must be paid at the port of destina-
tion.” At. the date of the shipment the £
Australian might be worth 15s. English. In
46 days, with inflation in progress, it might
be worth only 12s. English. The shipper
would have to cover himself against such
chances; and growers would certainly suffer
in consequence. It would add another ele-
ment of gambling to the business, which is
far too much of a gamble already.
Could not the Commonwealth recognise all
bonds held overseas as legal tender in pay-
ment for anything for which the Govern-
ment receives payment, at full face value?
Purchasers could acquire bonds in Britain
or America and pay our Government with
them for Crown land or might buy with
them certain raw materials, the suppliers of
which would in turn pay them as income and
other taxes. Importers would also acquire
sufficient overseas to pay Customs duties, etc.,
and in a year or two the whole overseas debt
would be absorbed. —J. B. McM., Brisbane
(Q.).
Our American friends would have a fine
time. They can buy N. S. Wales 5 per
cents, at 47 and even Commonwealth 5 per
cents, at 58; so they would be able to take
a parcel of these and reduce the Customs
tariff on their goods by one-lialf straight
away. Of course, this would reduce our
overseas debt, and with it the demand for
interest; but meantime it would also reduce
our revenue, unless we proposed to make the
same bonds legal tender for payment of
civil-service salaries, etc.; in that case it
would be currency inflation of the wildest
possible character. /If the bonds were not made
legal tender, then because of the falling off of
revenue some other way of raising the wind
would have to be thought up; and we should
apparently be then no further ahead. It
is a shameful thing, but there seems no
way out of our troubles except economy and
hard work.
Mr. Lang says that if we pay 3 p.c. inter-
est now it will be equal to nearly 5 p.c. to
the lender owing to the increased purchas-
ing power of money. That seems right to
me. Is there an answer? —R. T. IT., Good-
wood (S. A.).
The great rise in the price of commodities—
that is, the fall in the
value of money—was
only short-lived. It
began with the war.
In 1911 the price-level
of Australian exports
was 1161; in 1916-17
it was 1965. The high
level lasted (with vari-
ations) only 15 years-
Prior to the war the
Australian States had
borrowed 340 millions,
one-tliird of it at 3f p.c.
or lower. When the
purchasing value of 31
p.c. fell to one-half, no
Australian Government
proposed to increase the
rate in order to even
things up. Even at this
moment N. S. Wales
owes 53 millions for
which it is paying only
from 3 p.c. to 4 p.c.;
this was money bor-
rowed many years ago,
and upon which never
more than 3 p.c. to 4
p.c. has been paid,
though there was a time
when it was bringing
in less than 2 p.c. would
have brought when the
interest was fixed. The
man who wants the
interest “scaled” down
when the movement of
prices is against him,
but who insists upon the
bond being observed
when the movement is
in his favor, is the sort
that plays two-up with
a double-headed penny.
Inflation, you admit,
would be a stimulant
to production. Don’t
waste time tinkering
with economies in the
hope that someone will
take pity on us and lend
us more credit. Don’t
delay in an endeavor to
reduce wages and other
costs. Do the lot in
one sivoop. Cut all
costs in relation to
sterling by expanding
the currency. Stimulate
production, let the over-
seas lender see some-
thing tangible; he’ll
realise then that he at
least has a good chance
of getting his money
back, if not in gold, in
its next equivalent,
goods, —J. H. W. Darl-
inghurst (N.S.W.).
Inflation might stimu-
late production, but
only for the briefest
possible time. Indeed,
the main purpose of in-
flation is to get certain
results without the hard
work of production. We
have seen that during
the past dozen years
especially; we have
practised inflation by
the commonest route—
that is, by borrowing
and having a “bust” on
the proceeds. To-day,
with our £ worth in con-
sequence 15s. English, we have about one-
fourth of our adult males unemployed. And
we can’t produce enough to pay. half our
foreign interest bill. That doesn’t look much
like inflation stimulating production.
United States has 111 p.c. gold compared
to notes. Why not borrow £5.000,000 in
England and buy this much gold from the
United States? We could then print
£15,000,000 without being called inflation-
ists. We could increase our exports by
stimulation of work in proper directions —
in bringing more grass lands under _ culti-
vation (by cultivation I mean planting of
clovers and grasses and top-dressing, which
is the outstanding improvement in Austra-
lian agriculture for the last decade); by
increasing dairying, lamb-raising, pork-
exporting and other similar lines which still
make a cash crop. Otherwise the only thing
that can move us is a rise in wheat and
wool. Doyou forecast any such rise in the near
future? — Gordo Blanco, Woorinen (Vic..).
There would be not much need to borrow
if we could. It is because we can’t that we
have a floating debt which now amounts to
about 55 millions and constitutes Australia’s
most urgent problem. If we could borrow
in London, the money now advanced on over-
draft by Australian banks would be avail-
able for service in Australia. In any case,
to borrow gold and use it as the basis of
extended currency would be as inflationary
as to proceed with the extended currency
without gold. The reason why we can’t
borrow is purely political. With Lang sent
to the country in N. S. Wales and an emer-
gency Government erected in the Common-
wealth, with Robert Gibson as Prime Min-
ister, the floating debt could be funded with-
in a month or so, and half our troubles
would be over. Of course, it would be a
hard pinch in Australia during the process
of reconstruction. But that’s got to come,
in any case.
If inflation is the creation of cash or credit
at a rate which outstrips production, how is
it that with the credit-inflation that we
have got we have over-produced? How would
producing a lot more rid us of present or
future inflation? It seems to me that the
definition is lacking. —W. C. H., Cremorne
(N.S.W.).
But we have not over-produced. On the
contrary, last year we did not produce enough
to pay one farthing of our overseas interest
and we had to go into debt to do it; this
year we may pay about 18 millions, or half
the bill, leaving the balance for the future
to struggle with. Our trouble is that we
are not producing at a price low enough to
find a market; and that is not because our
wages generally are too high, but because
the producing industries are burdened with
far too many parasites, chief of which are
the public services and the mobs that bang
around Parliaments and trades halls and
arbitration courts and tribunals. Production
accompanied by greatly reduced costs would
enable us to get rid of our deficits and pay our
current exes., including interest. Export of
sufficient goods to pay our foreign bills, in-
cluding interest bill, would reduce exchange
to par or thereabouts.
We have to pay an extra penny or two per
pound for all the sugar ivc eat, so that we
can sell our surplus. It is the same with
butter , and it is now proposed to extend
the system. How far in this direction can
we go before we are quite broke? —L. Z. C.,
Ipswich (Q.).
The primary producer has to depend on
the markets of the world. Protection can't
do him any good there; on the contrary,
it may put up the costs of production, and
thus leave him with less margin. For many
years this has been more or less recognised,
and an effort has been made to give the
farmer compensation in the shape of low
rail freights. Of late years, this being held
to be insufficient, other plans have been
adopted, all designed to get a bit more for
the farmers out of those who are deriving
the benefits of the tariff. The proposed sales
tax on flour consumed in Australia is a
case in point. The plan can be carried on
until these contributions made by the com-
munity increase the farmer’s cost of living
and of production, and thus make it impos-
sible to compete in foreign markets.
We on the track are not the “sad proces-
sion” a Bulletin writer the other day said
we were; most of us have a lot less to
trouble us than the average out-of-icork who
sticks to the city. A family is the trouble:
most of us haven’t one. What is bothering
me and a lot wore I’ve been talking with is
why living is so dear in country towns,
whereas on farms alongside country towns
it seems dirt-cheap. What is the mystery?
—Old “Shore,” near Culcairn (N.S.W.).
Living in a country town is not as dear
as it looks from the prices in the stores, be-
cause (1) rents are low, (2) there are ways
open to most people of getting some articles
for much under shop prices—meat now and
again, for example, and eggs, milk, fruit,
jam and vegetables. In favor of low shop
prices are the low rents; but against low
prices is the credit system which lias hither-
to run riot in the country. The farmer has
got credit as a matter of course; and any
townsman in a steady job could get it almost
as readily. Because the purchaser hasn’t
had to pay cash on the nail he has generally
been a poor buyer, in most cases not even
troubling to inquire about price. The whole
country trading system has been thoroughly
bad, and ought never to be allowed to repeat
BASE INGRATITUDE.
THE PATIENT: “Mayn't I have a doctor to attend me?"
THE SAIREY GAMPS AND BETSY PRIGS: “A doctor? What ingratitood! Ain't we doing everythink
for you? Ain’t we even quarrelling over you?"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Love Race”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Mikado”
Comedy “The Calendar”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Friday Night at Leichhardt
On the principle that one good deed de-
serves another, this Showman urgently
advises those who have not already heard
Levitzki to take the last remaining chance
and go along to Sydney Town Hall to-night
(Wednesday). This outburst of boost is
not prompted altogether by the playing of
Mr. Levitzki, though that repays inspection,
The real object of it is to thank Mr. Levitzki
for influencing a hungry—in fact, starving—•
dramatic critic into visiting a strange and,
compared with most current theatrical offer-
ings, a superior entertainment; to wit, Fri-
day night at Leichhardt Stadium.
Mr. Levitzki’s part in the matter is
shortly explained. Mr. Levitzki hit lxis
piano. There was nothing very vicious in
the punch, and the cry which the piano let
out to the roof seemed to be as much in
pleasure as in pain. But it unquestionably
was a punch, and Mx\ Levitzki is to be con-
gratulated on, among other, things, attack-
ing an opponent that had such an obvious
advantage in the matter of weight. It was,
of coui’se, not expected, even by the most
hopeful of Mr. Levitzki’s supporters, that
he would succeed in his apparent intention
of knocking Steinway out; but even those
quite unacquainted with boxing could not
help realising that the visiting champion was
well ahead of the local lad, both on points
and counterpoints, by the end of the con-
test. He shone particularly in the in-fight-
ing, and he has a telling left. Indeed, he
is probably the best left-hand fighter on
the piano that Sydney has ever seen, and
he is above such doubtful innovations as the
wrestler’s left spit and straight bite.
Anyway, Mr. Levitzki brought to Sydney
wh'at Sydney theatricals have been missing
for a long time. They have, and have had,
plenty of that third item in the wrestling
trinity, kick. Some of them are all kick —
either kick up or kick out. That is all
very well for wrestlers, who have something
to kick; but the spectacle of Miss Prince
or Miss Gilmore or Mr. Connelly hopping
"Succeed in his apparent intention of
knocking Steinway out.”
about the stage kicking at absolutely no-
thing seems, to say the least for it, a trifle
pointless. Even when they vary their care-
ful but ineffectual kicking of the air by
occasionally kicking each other, they do it
in places where a knock-out is not at all
probable, and so the long-tried dramatic
critics have their momentary hopes for no-
thing.
But perhaps the new methods introduced by
Mr. Levitzki may change all this. The kick
—like most other things—has had a vei’y
fair trial in the theatre. Can the legit,
afford any longer to neglect the punch? Mr.
Levitzki opens up momentous possibilities.
What is a theatrical show to-day? It is
■walk in, take your seat, buy a programme,
read that thei*e are to be three acts, and
know that, unless the roof falls in, there
isn’t a ghostly chance of escaping one of
them. What is called for is a straight left
to the bloated body of the scoundrelly seducer
and early trams home for everybody. Why
not revive the fine old practice of
putting lead into the glove (or cestus) instead
of, as at present, putting it into the mouths
and encasing it about the limbs of the per-
formers ?
Perhaps we need not go that far. It
may be sufficient to wipe out the Taits and
Melntoshes and Rollses and Mariowes and
set up the McHughs. There appear to be
about 17 of the McHughs, all more or less
unrelated to each other, except in the matter
of horn-rimmed glasses, and all striking pro-
ducts of the Slam Levitzki school. They
own, manage and etcetera the Leichhardt
Stadium, and they seem to know their job.
At least, they would not cast a show with
such a poor exponent of the Levitzki method
as Gus Bluett or Franklyn or Leighton in
the leading role. They’d whip in a Carroll
or a Young Hannaberry and get the thing
over with polish and dispatch before the
People Who Come Late had time to walk
on your feet or the chocolate-paper players
could get at their lethal instruments. Judged
by the look of the McHugh theatre when
this Showman visited it last week, the result
would be a veritable renaissance of the good
(?) old legit.
The production was a drama in 30-odd
scenes entitled “Stoush.” The theatre has
a seating accommodation of 5000, and before
the first scene commenced all the McHughs
vanished. If that happened at one of the
ordinary run of theatres, the correct deduc
tion would be fear of a vegetable deluge;
in this instance, however, the entrepreneurs
were merely locking the doors. If that, in
turn, happened at one of the ordinary run
of theatres there would also be only one
correct deduction —that they were taking
precautions to keep the audience in. The
McHughs, however, were taking precau-
tions to keep a clamorous but superfluous
mass of audience out. Even as it was. Frith
was squeezed into swearing off sardines for
life, and every Scot present beamed in the
hope that his sixpence might be a shilling
before the show ended.
The audience inspires a paragraph and a
homily by itself. Contrast it with the mute
inglorious audience of the ordinary run of
theatre. Here there is punch even in the
applause, and the criticism of the performers
isn’t left to a small bunch of dinner-jacketed
scribes. It comes gustfully in praise or dis-
praise whilst the show is in progress. There
is, as in all thoughtful criticism, not much
uniformity about it—what to one is appa-
rently a good effort on the part of Fielding
is to another a good punch on the part of
Carroll. But now and then these general
critics reach unanimity. When they do,
what they have to say about the perform-
ance in progress would make the poor fish
"In such select company.”
[Mr. Gosling:, of tin-hare fame; Mr. Childs, of the
Force; Mr. McMahon, Taxations Unlimited.)
who perform in the ordinary run of theatres
either swell up and burst with pleasure or
go on a fortnight’s burst from despair. Their
critical style ranges from the “Sydney Morn-
ing Heraldish” “Oh, do hit him!” ' “Take
your time!” and “Oh, beautiful!” to the
“Cripes, look at that!” “If y’ fell out of a
boat y’ wouldn’t ’it the water!” and the
“Garn, y’ loafers, get into it!” of the ver-
nacular press.
And take an eyeful, while you are about
it, .of the quality of citizenry which this
Leichhardt audience includes. In the mass
it is mostly men and women—a surprising
number of women, most of them appropri-
ately subdued by the spectacle of about the
one show on earth which is not dependent
in any way upon petticoats, or their sub-
stitutes, for box-office results. Two of them
near the press seats attempt strenuously to
retain their ego by knitting pilchers through-
out the performance, a line of criticism pos-
sibly too subtle for the circumstances. At
any rate, it has no visible effect upon the
performers or even upon the prompter, Mr.
Yank Pearl, who suggests another means of
improving the ordinary-run-of-theatre show
by appearing on stage throughout the per-
formance. There he is able to speak so
softly that it is impossible to hear him even
in the front-stall seats, a commendable im-
provement on the popular practice of
prompters remaining secreted in the wings
and turning the show into a duet audible
in the gods. He is also able to give yxpert
advice to the perfoi-mers on points of gesture,
such as the dramatically effectual but rather
hearty one of pounding the right ear with
the left elbow, or declaiming too .much with
the hands open—this last a reprehensible
practice hackneyed beyond endurance by
Plugger Shakspeare and Battling Wallace,
trainers respectively of those comparatively
dud performers Pounda Skylock and Spot
Perelli.
This Showman urgently commends some
of the above innovations of the McHugh
pi’oductions to the serious consideration of
the firm of J. C. Williamson and its lesser
brethi’en. If adopted, dramatic critics, bored
nightly by having to sit in company with
the same rows of waxen images, might live
for ever in an animated atmosphere, in such
select company as Mi*. Childs, of the Police
Force; Mr. McMahon, of Taxations Un-
limited ; Mr. Gosling, once of tin-hare fame,
who has just achieved the crowning moment
of his political life by declaring an open
season for ’possums; Mr. Camnbell-Jones,
who will be remembered as a co-producer of
one of the best farces Sydney has ever
known; Uncle George, of one of those alpha-
betical addresses; and sundry members of
the clergy, pi’obably present in tribute to the
memory of Bendigo, the one-time illustrious
performer, both in the ring and in the cloth,
who, according to a recent encyclopaedia,
“once used threats of a pugilistic nature to
induce his congregation to give liberally to
the collection.” Among such distinguished
company even an amateur production of a
play might conceivably be sat out, if not
Gus Bluett raises hopes among the
dramatic critics.
without boredom at any rate without
obscurity.
(In case the above appreciation of the
McHugh line of entertainment may seem too
unqualified in its enthusiasms to be sound
criticism, or in case a stadium may be
considered by the fastidious inappropriate to a
Sundry Shows page, the writer humbly
directs attention to the fact that it has
been at such addresses that the side-splitting
Jackie Lang, probably the finest all-round
low-comedian Australia has ever produced,
has given his most amusing performances.)
In case an odd playgoer may feel that he
has been induced to enter Melbourne Comedy
under false pretences, The Bulletin hast-
ens to explain that “The Calendar,” by
Edgar Wallace, contains no secret trapdoors
communicating with Thames mud, no corpses
concealed in the wainscotting, no sinister
Celestials and only one burglary, of a very-
good-liumored sort. It is an attempt by
the immortal Edgar to dramatise his
knowledge of the Turf. Its most obvious
fault is that its author is apt to be too
intei’ested in his theme for the average non-
liorsey theatregoer who doesn’t care tup-
pence about the laws and ethics of lioi'se-
racing but does care for a good play. Drama-
tically the piece is of uneven quality. Its
pace is a quiet amble, but every now aud
then it takes a fence in the best Wallaeian
manner, and the last scene is a good gallop
which compensates for the waits.
Frank Harvey is his usual finished self
as Garry Anson, an owner who in a weak
moment decides to let his horse lose and back
a better animal, sends a note to Lady Panni-
ford telling her of his intention, then re-
pents and sends a cancelling letter on the
back of a f 100-note. The lady’s regard for
him having turned to hate, the first note gets
into the hands of the stewards of the Jockey
Club and Anson is warned off. He learns
that the second note is reposing in Lady
P.’s, bedroom safe, and he successfully burgles
it, incidentally disclosing the pi-esence of a
lover behind the arras in the damsel’s
boudoir. This clears up a cojmplicated sexual
tangle and enables him to accept a proposal
of marriage from the only other female in
the cast, whose tender feeling for him is a
surprise to him and also to the audience, Mr.
Wallace not being very good at Ailing in the
gaps between the actions in a play with
subtle psychology.
The piece is admirably cast. Coral Brown,
as the deceiving woman, is as handsome and
as hard as her Christian name. Dieudonnee
Waldron does her best to make a portrait
out of an outline sketch. John Fernside is
a burglar turned butler and provides most
of the humor of the piece. George Blunt, as
a bookmaker, is an unusually amiable rep-
tile who on an Australian course would
probably be mistaken for a peer.
# * *
“What the Doctor Ordered,” a farce in
three acts, by Noel Grey, was Frank Neil’s
swan song at Melbourne Bijou. It is im-
possible to say what the play was like in
the original—sufficient to remark that after
passing through Mr. Neil’s hands it be-
comes the nearest thing to a Christmas revel
in a madhouse The Bulletin has seen.
“‘Gam, y’ loafers, get into it!’”
Amongst the inmates of the theatrical asy-
lum were Boswell, a butler ''suffering from
permanent inebriation (done by Feild
Fisher) ; a maid in a smart American home
who addresses her mistress as “love” (lily
Molloy) ; a Wall-street financier, whose
blithering idiocy was well portrayed by
Austen Milroy, and his daughter (Louise
Lovely), who appeared to be comparatively
sane. The plot concerns the endeavors of
the incredible financier to discover on what
side of a river a x-ailway is to be built so
that he can make a smart deal in land, and
the efforts of the hero (Frank Neil) to de-
ceive him so that he can do the old man
out of some of his money and thus impress
him as being fit to be his son-in-law. This
paper was too dizzy at the end to know
which of them won.
* * #
Luey Ahon, 8.A., is a remai-kable pheno-
menon in Melbourne amateur theatrical life.
She is one of the best local actresses at
large. She also px*oduces plays, and the
Student Theatre Society is an offspring of
hers. None of these things is remarkable.
The remarkable thing about the ladv is that
she. doesn’t appear in the plays she produces.
This is a dastardly infringement of Rule
1335 A, section C. of the regulations govern-
ing amateur performances, which stipulates
that in every case producers should appear
in their shows, preferably in the leading and
most unsuitable roles. The latest achieve-
ment of the organisation was an extra-
ordinarily good performance of “Outward
Bound,” at the Proscenium Clubrooms. It
was good even when compared with the
excellent professional production confected at
the Athenaeum some years ago. Frank
Chamberlain, as the ghostly steward of the
liner which sets out for the port' of Hell,
played his difficult part with quiet skill, and
Angus Henry as Mr. Prior was more con-
vincingly bibulous than amateur inebriates
usually are. Gladys Kenn played Ann in
pleasant style and a melodious voice.
* * *
With Eric Howell as producer, the Mos-
man (Sydney) Comedy and Dramatic
Society made a pretty good job of Lonsdale’s
“Ai-en’t We All?” at the local Town Hall.
Trixie Gore was a striking figure as Margot
Tatham; if the good-looking Bill Middleton
(Willie Tatham) paid as much attention
to enunciation as this young woman and
the sprightly Edna Crofts (Lady Frintoii)
do he would be a lot more effective. Les
Hale’s Lord Grenham was a capital bit of
w-ork. Others in a creditable cast were
Peggy Stuart, Daisy Goodlet, John Ellerman
and J. W. Martin —the last-named as the
Australian who loves and magnanimously
drives away.
# * *
An uncommonly smart company under
Humphrey Bishop rescued Sydney Palace
from immature golf and doldnxms on Satur-
day. The show, billed as a musical extra-
vaganza, is easily one of the best entertain-
ments on offer within field-gun range of the
Harbor. It has several very good voices, and
its star item, Fifi Adoree, is a mimic and all-
round entertainer of the first class. The
Bishop makes a departure in giving his
sparkling sermon twice a night; first show
beginning at 6.15 and the second at 5.45.
# # #
R. O. Blackman’s “What’s in a Name?”
which had its premiere at the St. James
“Used threats of a pugilistic nature to
induce his congregation to give liberally
to the collection.”
Hall, Sydney, is a farce in three acts, and
has bright moments. Mr. Blackman, no
doubt for his own very good reasons, over-
looked such a capital setting as that
secluded part of Darlinghurst where razors
are used chiefly for shaving with, and
plunked for the Milton Flats, Kensington,
London. Ordinarily, it wouldn’t matter a
dog license where the farce was set, but
when it is considered necessary to introduce
a song commenting upon such eminent and
topical members of the adjacent judiciary
as Judge Beeby, Phar Lap and Constable-
Chuck, there would seem to be at least a
reasonable excuse for having the rest of
the landscape local.
The farce develops from a general mix-
up in regard to the name Jones, unrelated
and unacquainted owners of which occupy
Flats 5, 55 and 65, and become objects of
suspicion when, during a party staged in
55, a policeman, also named Jones, comes
to make inquiries into the disturbance and
begins taking names. There are other com-
plications of the kind that go to make good
farce: the party is held in 55 without the
permission or knowledge of 55’s Jonesey occu-
pant ; the rev. occupant of 55, a Scotch
Jones, breaks in to protest, is treated to
morphia by a doctor member of the party,
and is unconscious and apparently tanked
when the policeman arrives; and so on. The
flaw of the piece is that the third act,
barring one or twd minor items, is merely a
recital of the events of the party (Act .11).
The audience, well aware of everything that
happened in Act 11, has to sit aiid listen
while the participants go over it all again
—a curiously amateurish arrangement.
There are, however, some good laughs in
the piece, and the basis of it is capital for
farce purposes. George Cross, Eric Scott,
Therese Desmond, Ossie Wenban and Rita
Aslin were among the best of the generally
sound bunch who played it.
* * *
Peter Dawson and Mark Hambourg kicked
off at the City Hall, Brisbane, and the “House
Full” sign got a job for the season. Both
artists won flattering applause, w’hieh par-
ticularly threatened to damage the building
w r hen Dawson sang items which have largely
built up his reputation through the gramo-
phone.
# * *
The old “Country Girl,” with its non-
American flavor notable in these eosmopoli-
tan days, ended
an interesting
and rather ex-
p e r i mental
season at
Adelaide
Boyal, Miriam
Lester’s fine
voice was the
ne w feature
in this last
piece. The
season shows
—in addition
to established
names such as
those of
Lilian Crisp,
Amy Rochelle
and Willough-
by—a sound
young com-
edian in Don
Nicol, who in
three plays ex-
hibited four
quite distinct
methods. David
Graliame and
Vera Spaull
are good, and
can be better;
she needs to
borrow a little
“The finest all-round low
comedian Australia has
produced.”
of his repose,
and he a little of her vivacity.
* * ¥
The new proprietors of Melbourne Tiv.
continue to put up a worth-while show. One
of the most suicidal acts seen there for many
years is the skating turn by Joy and Laz-
zeroni. Fanciers got a bit more than their
money’s worth the other evening when Joy
flew out of the orbit of her partner and
landed on to the stage, owing to the forces
of gravitation going on strike, or something
of the sort. The gentleman who spends his
entire turn on his head is another interesting
character, and px-esent critic confesses to
having cracked his face longitudinally to an
unprecedented extent over the antics of the
comic member of the Flying Winskills troupe.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Jaypat”: One golden jubilee that passed
unnoticed last year was that of the over-
worked word “mascot.” The word was
dragged into the English language when
Audran’s comic opera “La Mascotte” was
produced in London in 1880. So there were
mascots before there were motor-cars to
.stick them on, which shows that the school-
boy wasn’t far wrong when he described a
motor-car as “an intricate piece of machin-
ery that is usually attached to a mascot.”
Audran took the word from the patois of his
native Marseilles; but it really originated
in Provence, where it has had a long cur-
rency with the meaning of “luck-bringer.”
“Epee”: The recent exhibition of Persian
arts and crafts in London has been followed
by one in Glasgow showing some of Scot-
land’s old-time handiwork. The star turn,
perhaps, is the unequalled display of ancient
swords, including what some ill-informed
Southron writer refers to as the “two-
handed swords of the eighteenth century.”
The six-foot, two-handed blade practically
went out at Flodden; the last man recorded
as wearing it habitually was the Earl of
Ruthven, who was one of the party that
extirpated Rizzio in Holyrood. As the
weapon could only be carried hanging down
the back with the hilt conveniently disposed
over the left shoulder, it was little affected
by the younger set with social leanings.
“Equatoria”: “Nakh.” is wrong in attri-
buting the saucer-like lips of certain
Central xYfrican women to “male folly and
feminine vanity’ 1 ' (B. 11/3/’3l). The women
of this particular tribe were noted for their
physical beauty, and hence were much sought
after by Arab slave-traders. The prac-
tice of deliberate malformation arose from
the necessity of rendering the women un-
attractive ; in other words, from the instinct
of race-preservation. With the suppression of
the slave trade, the disfiguring habit is
dying out.
“Ibn el Issar”: In these days when so
much fuss is being made of the revolution-
ary tendencies of the Indian National Con-
gress it will do no harm to recall that it
was founded by a retired English civil ser-
vant and bolstered up in its beginnings by
others. A. O. Hume, who had come with
credit out of the Mutiny troubles and had
risen to be Secretary of Agriculture and
Commerce, waxed eccentric in his later years.
The I.G. gently pushed him out on a full
pension under the guise of abolishing his
office. They were foolish enough to revive
it a month or two later under a fresh incum-
bent. The enraged Hume formed an organ-
isation of discontented Indian intelligentsia,
and was backed by many other Anglo-
Indians, who nurtured grievances. Thus the
movement which may destroy the Anglo-
Indian Civil Service is itself a product of
that service.
“Aileron”: A good deal has been written
about the danger attending the crossing by
aeronauts of the salt-water stretch from
Timor to Darwin, but actually, since the
first flight from England in the Ross-Keith
Smith era, not one airman has been in peril
over this section of the long journey.
Crashes and forced landings have occurred
at dozens of other places, from Croydon
aerodrome to Timor itself. Come to think of
it, most of the trouble encountered by air-
men in the final stages of the Britain-
Australia flight has happened over dry
land from Darwin south. On this section
the original Smiths had to come down,
willy-nilly, and others, including Bert Hink-
ler and the Johnsonette, had similar experi-
ences.
“Bill O’C.”: Why is everyone who has
learnt a foreign language invariably credited
with the ability to “speak French like a
Parisian,” “German like a native” or “English
like an Oxford don”? They never do. however
highly-trained or long-practised. I have
been associated with a good many English-
speaking men of foreign birth, and have
never met one whose native accent or idio-
matic lapses did not betray themselves occa-
sionally. In the case of well-educated people
it would be often nearer the mark to adopt
that other cliche and say that they speak fault-
less English, French, etc.; that is, they speak
it too correctly for a native. Good evidence
of the persistence of native speech can be
found by listening to the talk of Australian
country children of German-born parents
(and often of only German-descended
parents) educated in our schools. They
speak much better and clearer English than
their British-blooded playmates, but the
very clearness of the accent and character-
istic use at times of the’ “alreadys” and “so
soons” mark them out at once. Theirs is
English, but not that of the “Oxford don,”
nor yet that of the Footscray, Boggabri or
Goondiwindi professor.
“Bahr-el-Yusuf”: Light Horse members of
the A.I.F. will be interested in the cabled
item that the air-force depot in Iraq has
been shifted from Lake Habbania because
of the prevalence of bilharziosis. When the
mounted men were quartered among the fel-
laheen after the evacuation, warnings against
the beastly affliction used to take up most
of the orders of the day. Wading or bathing
in still water was rigidly forbidden, and
drinking water was carefully treated. The
corkscrew-like wog which causes the trouble
generally finds his human host when the
latter is wading in the Egyptian irrigation
ditches, with the result that a very large
proportion of the fellaheen are infected.
Before taking to the human body, the host
is one of the millions of water snails which
occur in the ditches. The parasite, as we
were told about him, attacks the bladder
and kindred. organs, with ghastly and usually
incurable results.
“Whitehall”: “Derisive laughter” was
reported in the House of Commons the other
day when a Liberal decorated his oration
with a line from Horace. Yet only a quarter
of a century ago the speeches of most Parlia-
mentarians were full of classical tags. Ine
death of the custom is a high tribute to the
Mother of Parliaments, if it is rightly
regarded. With the rise of the Labor Party
the Commons began to fill up witn men who
had had few. educational advantages. I he first
plank in the platform of an Englishman of
breeding is “Never show off.” _ (We saw
an outcome of the law in Imperial messes,
which were abysmally dull, as a rule, because
good manners demanded that the conversa-
tion should be keyed down to the level of
the poorest intelligence present.) For an
Old Etonian to quote Greek or Latin at an
Old Borstallian in Parliament might look
as if the former was making a vulgar display
of his erudition; so the practice became “bad
form.” Ironically enough, the justification
for the change vanished almost as soon as it
arrived. Cheap dictionaries of quotations
have been procurable for years past, by refer-
ence to which a completely illiterate Parlia-
mentarian, provided he has a fair memory
and plenty of cheek, can create an impression
for press and “Hansard” purposes that he has
the learning of a Gladstone.
“M.G.S.” : “British producers are making-
many excellent films, but they need some-
body to lead them out of the wilderness. They
seem to be suffering from a ‘superiority
complex,’ and they will not recognise that
their films must have more than an Eng-
lish appeal. Producers in U.S.A. understand
the necessity for catering for other people.
A SKIN GAME.
“The N.S.W. Government, in an attempt to relieve unemployment, proposes to declare an open
season for ’possums and other protected fur-bearers.”
LANG: “Well, Mark, we seem to have skinned everything else in sight; what about having a go
at these little chaps?”
In England a broader outlook is even more
essential.” Thus E. J. Carroll puts his
unerring finger on a trouble that has always
afflicted English dramatists. It seems to be
congenital. William Shakspeare was especi-
ally cursed with it. The most tempting offers
came to him from Sweden, Russia, Mongolia,
China, Tartary and the Congo, conditionally
on his confining himself to such immortal
themes as mother love and the story of Cin-
derella in its numerous variants. The owner
of a chain of 459 theatres in Afghanistan
pointed out that if he would give “Macbeth”
a happy ending, not only would thousands of
Afghans flock to see the drama but millions
of theatre-lovers the world over would be
included in his audiences. The playwright
was obliged to send his reply by post, the
cable companies refusing to accept the mes-
sage.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh” : “Hell’s Angels,” the
latest greatest triumph of spectacular photo-
graphy, has a curious history. It had its
genesis in the desire of Howard Hughes, a
25-year-old American who had suddenly come
into millions, to achieve notoriety in some
field or other. Exhibitionism gets its great-
est return in popular applause in the movies,
and Hughes set to work to make an aerial
picture that would knock even Hollywood,
He bought fleets of aeroplanes and armies
0 £ aviators. In the middle of the proceed-
j n g g tke talkie boom occurred, so the film
jj a( j p ar tially scrapped and redone with
voea j trimmings. After regarding the eccen-
young man with pitying good humor
Hollywood had to change its tune when the
picture turned out the film of the year. It
j g a ]j e g e( j that the cost was £BOO,OOO and that
owlier will get his money back.
“Craiser”: The indestructibility of Clara
Butt an< 3 Kennerley Rumford is shown by
the fact that 35 years ago the pair sang “The
Keys of Heaven at a chantj concert at
the Freetrade Hall Manchester.. On the
same bill were Santley and a moving picture
of Harry Lauder. The Lauder item was
possibly one of the earliest talkies on record.
A more or less synchronised phonograph
sang “Stop Your Tickling Jock,” to Harry’s
c apermgs. In those days the best the phono-
graph could do was a thin and squeaky fal-
setto, and the contrast between the small-
ness of the voice and the gigantic figure of
the singer brought the house down. I wonder
if Dame Clara remembers the occasion.
“L. de Rideau”: Stokovski, the famous
conductor of the Philadelphia orchestra,
recently gave his audience a lesson m polite
behavior which might be emulated by Aus-
tralian musical directors. He was billed
to play “Fantasie,” by Guillaume Lekeu.
When the curtain went up the maestro, the
solo ’cellist and the librarian w T ere disclosed.
The music began, and as it proceeded the
violins strolled on in pairs or one by one,
the drums followed, and eventually the flutes,
the oboes and the rest put in their appear-
ance, picking up their parts as they arrived.
Later, in “The Ride of the Valkyries,” the
musicians jumped up and walked about the
stage, the violas trotted off talking and
laughing, and the triangle went out to wet
his whistle in the middle of a vocal item.
(Late arrivals, gossipers and programme-
rustlers amongst the audiences have since
been conspicuous by their absence.
“Craiser”: This dashed world is getting
too standardised. Miss Butterfly Wu, the
Mary Pickford of China, lately proceeded
against her fiancee, Mr. “Breakfast King”
Ling (he is called Breakfast King because
he runs a famous Shanghai restaurant).
The court was so crowded that the Judge
fainted and the press reporters were unable
to get to their box, so a move was made
to more commodious premises. Here the
jamb was so great that Miss Wu couldn’t
enter. She had to be carried up the fire-
escape. Distinguished Celestial rakes and
leading society women made up most of the
throng, many arriving hours before the show
opened. The only new element was the
ground of action. What Miss Flutterby sought
was the annulment of her betrothal to Mr.
Breakfast, celebrated by a formal ceremony
at the “Moon Palace” three years ago. Fuss-
ing over a little thing like that would be con-
sidered (le trop in Hollywood.
“Bloggs”: A Sydney “Telegraph” corres-
pondent complained last week: —
Courtesy in the streets seems to be a lost grace
nowadays.
The London dailies were bombarded with
letters on .the subject during the war. ' I
hqve a cutting before me now beginning A
spirit of discourtesy is abroad in the land
which is certainly of recent development. Its
like has never existed in England within
living memory.” The writer put n down to
“a serious reaction from long years of an
exaggerated deference, expected and exacted
by the prosperous from the less fortunate.
I never thought much of the theory, and 1
think less of it now. Poverty, with its accom-
panying irritants in the way of insufficient
food and discomfort generally, is the prin-
cipal slaver of suave manners. In England
after the beginning
of ’l7, when supplies
began definitely to run
short, when wages
were being increased
10 per cent, in the
factories while food
was being increased
by so-called profiteers
50 per cent., the
people got more sul-
len and more uncivil
literally day by day.
It is liable to happen
when once well-to-do
folks find’ themselves
haggling over the tail-
end of a fish, as many
wageless Australians
are being driven to do
now by basic-wage
prices. A queer fact
about lost national
manners is that they
don’t come back again,
The English are not
nearly so uncomfort-
able as they were to-
wards the end of the
war, but they are just
as terse with stran-
gers. The same with
the French and
Italians. Before this
slump is over you will
ask for a match
amongst strangers at
the risk of a punch
on the nose.
“ Jeames” : The news
that the Cavendish
Club may have to
close provides further
proof that it is get-
ting almost as hard
to keep a club open as
a theatre in the West
End of London these
days. The Cavendish
was established 20
years ago with every-
thing in its favor —a
beautiful clubhouse in
the best part of Pic-
cadilly and plenty of
members, amongst
whom were some of
the best card-players
in London. For a
time it was talked of
as a rival of the cen-
tury-old Portland, just
as the Bachelors’,
which appeared in the
’eighties, was talked
of for years as a rival
of White’s. Now both
look like going the
way of Almack’s, the
Piccadilly and a
dozen more that have
fallen by the way. Jews
have a lethal effect on
clubs. Why it should
be so is a mystery,
since no people are so
clever, cheery and
gregarious; and they
know a lot about the
three things most
clubs exist to supply
—food, drinks and
cards. However, so it
is. All the ancient
London clubs of un-
diminished prestige
and prosperit y
White’s, Arthur’s,
Pratt’s, etc. —bar Heb-
rews, and even the
Marlborough, which
is traditionally the
club of Royalty, has
declined since it
suffered an incursion of wealthy Israel-
iteS in the time of Edward VII. Prac-
tically anyone with a lot of money can get
into the Marlborough nowadays. Americans
even try to exclude Jews from their golf
clubs. A luxurious country club on Long
Island wouldn’t have Otto Kahn. He didn’t
give a hoot personally, but his wife wanted
him to join. One day members noticed a
monstrous edifice going up near the sth green.
which is in full view of their clubhouse. It
turned out to be a sanatorium for consump-
fives, which the millionaire banker was hay-
ing erected. So they elected him and his
family, and the outrage came down. But
you can’t bring off that kind of stunt in
London.
“Jacky Roo” (Corsica) : Corsica is hav-
ing trouble with its Australian gum-trees,
when they were brought over years ago the
Q ors j cang thought they were little orna-
mental trees, and planted them close to-
• nnonnpc ATnw the 211 ms h&ve
»ether m ave us. hurst
grown into giants and the roots are^ ■bm&t-
ing through the roads,.and Corsica looks a.
if it had experienced an earthquake.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
lII* nil &
M
;, S !
l
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Cay. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
ft'!
s'"
**•*?£;
d
Two Exclusive Features.
First: the perfect site, the convenience of which
I contributes so much to the comfort of our
guests. Second:
Reduced Tariff —‘‘Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 12/ per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and d la carte.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney."
The
Hotel
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex.
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORICINALITIES
MRS. DAGGS EXPLAINS MATTERS.
MRS. MAGGS: “Is your husband stupid when he takes a drop too much?”
MRS. DAGGS: “Yes, it don’t make the slightest difference to him.”
“A.S.”: “Toughest bloke I ever knew was
Stumpy Mitchell,” remarked my friend
Daniel reminiscently. “I knew him up in
Bowen. Rough as bags, and awful fond of
a joke. We were out in his launch one day
dynamiting fish. Stumpy was smoking a
cigar which he was using to light the fuses.
‘Last shot,’ says Stumpy, and he threw the
cigar jn the water and put the dynamite
in his mouth. Blew half hi.s bloomin’ face
away. He hung on for a few days, and
there wasn’t a yelp out of him, though he
knew he was dying. He said that when-
ever he thought of it he wanted to laugh.
And of course the poor cow couldn’t!”
. * * * ik
“Tiki”: On the foreshore near
Timaru (M.L.), between Ben-
venue Cliffs and Dashing Rocks
—a shore strewn with old wreck-
age—there may be seen project-
ing over the sea a strange struc-
ture of ancient beams and rusted
iron, the purpose of which is a
mystery to those not in the know.
It is all that is left of the wave-
power machine invented by old
Mark Saunders, and it is pro-
bably half a century since it was
installed. Locally, Saunders was
considered a harmless lunatic,
but his notions were logical
enough, and his engineering was
sound, as far as it weiit,! though
the first big storm did burst his
contraption. He. had seen, the
breakers on that coast, : driven by
gales straight from the Antarctic,
belaboring the granite cliffs with
hammer blows that shook the
earth. He had seen the great
concrete blocks of the breakwater
picked up and thrown about like
corks in the days before an outer
mole was built as a first line of
defence against the turbulent
enemy. His machine failed be-
cause he had not the means to
build it strongly enough, but it
was a very gallant attempt to
directly harness one of Nature’s
most prodigal means of wasting
power. Perhaps some day some
highly-trained engineer, backed
with great capital resources, will
succeed where Mark failed.
When you come to think of it
the, history of every great dis-
covery and invention is probably
only a quarter written, for it is
silent concerning the army of
“cranks” who saw and aimed at
the goal but could not reach it.
“Jacko”: A Chinese cabinet-maker in Col-
lingwood (Melb.) has a notice in his win-
dow : “Terms strictly cash.” He has to be
emphatic about it —his name’s On Tick,
* * *
“Wang”: Dad, driving a waggon-load of
spuds into the township, got bogged. He
went through the usual motions of the
.bogged driver, but to no avail. In the dis-
tance he saw a motor-ear coming towards
the township. Still carrying the sapling he
had been using as a lever, he planted him-
self in the centre of the road. The car’s
sole occupant was a big fat man, and he
pulled up as Dad waved the sapling aloft.
He eyed Dad suspiciously. Dad was hot
and savage-looking from his exertions, and he
had managed to say merely half a dozen words
to the car-driver when that party stepped
on the accelerator and nearly knocked Dad
down as he shot suddenly forward. About
half an hour later Dad saw the same car
returning from the township. Seated beside
the driver w.as the local cop. The police-
man hopped out and rushed up to Dad.
“What’s the game?” he cried. “Game?”
echoed Dad, “Whatcher mean?” The police-
man pointed to the fat party in the ear.
“This gentleman reports that you stuck him
PIECE WORK ALL RIGHT.
S WAGGIE: “Is this piece work, Jackie?’
JACKIE: “My oaf! Boss tellit do mile—this pfeller only do quarter mile.”
up half an hour ago and demanded money
from him.” “Eh?” said Dad, then he burst
out laughing. “Cripes!” he said. “I won-
dered why he bolted off in sieh a hurry. He
cleared out before I cud finish. All I meant
ter ask him was t’ give me a few pounds
of his weight on one of th’ wheels.”
H* H: ifc He
“Tauwarra”: In the days before the war,
when the Pryke brothers were prospecting the
upper reaches of the Fly River (Papua), one
of their boys .sickened of a mysterious malady
and died. His brother explained it thus:
“I savee this kind sick, Taubada; he ’nother
kind. Before, this, boy work ’long Woodlark.
Time finish, he no go back village_ b’long
him, he come sign ’long you. Long: time
he no ! go home make garden b’ldng him.
Mammy b’long hirm she ’nother kind wild
too much. She make ‘pourri-pourri’ (sorcery)
’long this boy, that-way) he die. No good
I sing out ’long you. No good you give medi-
cine. My word! Close up I die too.” And
he did. The unnatural, female, . who lived
at Normanby Island, 600 miles from the Fly,
set up a record for long-distance “pourri-
pourri” that still stands.
/ H* H« ' H?
“Mulga Mick”: Joe. the tin-dresser, who
worked for years at the Marranboy battery.
N.T., was as deaf as a j beetle when. not at.
his work, 1 , but once in the battery, where the
noise of the stampers made it impossible for
anybody else to hear! anything else, he
developed surprisingly keen hearing. If, a
screw got loose on one of the concentrating
tables or ,if one of the stamps was tapping
bottom, Joe was always the first to hear it.
Also he could hear anything that, was said.
If a stranger, asked Joe a question off shift,
Joe would take him along to the battery to
hear what he had to say, and then take
him out again to hear the answer.
$ $ $ H*
Dr. Mivart”: I feel it my duty to utter
a word of protest concerning the outrageous
ill-treatment of two of my young friends,
the brothers Aubrey and Clarence Regalis,
who are incarcerated at Sydney’s Zoo, The
daily routine of their imprisonment is suffi-
ciently irksome. It is a strain on their
tempers and tends to warp their natures for
young growing tigers with healthy appetites
to be continually tantalised by the spectacle
of chubby human infants just out of reach;
but as though this were not enough they
were subjected the other night to one of
the most brutal and diabolical forms of tor-
ture known to our ingenious age—they were
compelled to witness a talkie depicting mem-
bers of their family enjoying the freedom
which these poor prisoners have forteitea.
Sounds, dimly reminiscent of the jungle, but
more closely resembling the noises caused
by belaboring an iron tank a waddy,
smote upon their sensitive ears. The strains
of the saxophone, banjo and other corn-
ponents of jazz cacophony were directed
at them. They retired to the furthest and
darkest corners of their lair, emerging occa-
sionally, as the torture grew unbearable, to
paw tentatively at the bars of their prison on
the off-chance that a flaw in the metal would
enable them to break out and tear the silver
screen to ribbons. I had a word or two with
the sufferers the morning after. Aubrey
complained of a splitting headache and
Clarence could do nothing but moan: “I
could have stood anything but the tootling
of the monkeys.” Poor fellow, I think he,
not unreasonably, ascribed to the simians
the extraordinary din made by the 100-per-
cent. American orchestra. I read them a
chapter from Skipper's “Meeting Pool” and
coaxed faint grins from both, but it w T ill
take them a long time to fully recover from
their nerve-racking experience.
**; * • *
“R.D.”: The “S. M. Herald” lately printed
; a picture of Douglas Haig, mounted; The
I charger was stepping forward with his near
side front and hind legs at the same time.
No horse will do that, except a draught that
has done a lot of pulling, or a pacer.
$ . < * • .* *
“Pick”: Every ant in a colony rushes
to his pre-allotted duty when the home
- suddenly is rudely erupted by a gardener’s
spade ,or a navvy’s crowbar. The nurse
„ ants, caring instantly for their charges, take
up the . eggs and' larvae in their mandibles
, and. range themselves in irregular rank and
‘ file. The commissariat lifts the stores that
; haven’t been destroyed in the upheaval and
| fall in. The vacation of the disrupted tene-
ment then- commences. Guides lead the way,
They seem always to know of a cranny or
crevice where a new home can readily be
tenanted, and thence they straightway con-
' duct the evicted host. In the ranks, march-
ing in pairs, appear ants that at other times
are never seen on the surface of the ground.
They differ in size and form from the
common herd, with abnormally huge heads
and formidable nippers. They are the sol-
diers who guard the brood-bearers. But
the foragers scouting on the outskirts of
the trekking mass are fighters, too, and
vigorously withstand flank attacks, while the
slaves, lumbering behind in relays to carry
the aristocrats of the clan, sometimes un-
load to fight a rearward action. Neverthe-
less it usually is a sadly depleted community
that reaches' the new selection. Lizards
rush to loot the brood convoys and feast
upon the eggs and young, small birds play
havoc amongst the seed-carriers, and clusters
of dead or maimed ants that have fallen in
protecting their goods litter the way before
the promised land is reached.
THE LOST BRAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We ain’t the chaps our fathers were, an’
that’s'a fact,” said Pigweed Joe.
“A drover offered me a cigarette a day or
two ago. •
I took his blinkin’ fag, o’ course; but, all
the same, I couldn’t resist
Jist casually lettin’ slip that I was raised
on Barrett’s twist.
“There’s some picks up new-fangled ways as
fast as pigeons pick up peas;
For me—ah, well, there’s little use to give
a donkey raspberries.
’Tis diff’rent days an’ diff’rent smokes.
They!ll never know how much they
missed,
The chaps that puff those paper things an’
lived too late for Barrett’s twist.
“'Twas black an’ strong as hell to smoke,
an’ satisfying, too. to chew:
The world seemed rollin’ on all right ’long
as you had a plug or two.
The stations stocked it. far and wide, an’
many, a swagman’s horny fist
Closed with a heartfelt ‘Thankyer. boss,’
upon a stick of Barrett’s twist.
“These brands you get to-day,” said Pigweed
Joe as in the fire he spat,
“May do for boys, but spare me days! you
knew when you were smokin’ that,
And so did ev’ryone around. No ’skeeters
ever dared the mist
Of grey that rose above a mob whose pipes
were charged with Barrett’s twist.
“These cigarettes,” said t Pigweed Joe, “they
give a man the hump beeos
They show —or so it seems to me —Australia
isn’t what it was.
You needed guts to smoke that tack, an’
now there ain’t a ’bacconist,
I guess, that wouldn’t shake his head if
you should ask for Barrett’s twist.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Homelike Hospitality!
bs.*
Sum
Relax in the Grosvenor’s spacious
lounge. Complete comfort and cour-
teous service—reasonable rates. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Yale locks on all
doors. Fire-proof throughout. Meals
a la carte from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
CROSVENOR
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
*POSITE RAILWAY STATION
Pi!
>5
tl
A'Miija
m. 15
it
Such is the efficiency of the British “RENRUT” Quadruple!
Owing to patented principles this pump, although smaller in
diameter than many other pumps, gives far more air per
stroke, and with much less effort than usual. Every detail
is engineer-designed and flawlessly finished in the finest
British style to give endless “service under any conditions.
RENRUT”QUADRUPLE
Pateretees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Representa-
tive: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.F.O. Box 71, Melb.
PRICE,
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
IN-BUILT QUALITY
To produce a smooth-working, power-
ful and durable windmill, there must
be plenty of accurate machine-tool
work put into it; lathes, boring
machines, milling machines, gear-cut-
ting machines must contribute each
th§ir full quota to accurate finish of
parts, which combine to form a fine
mechanical product such as the Sky
Windmill.
MORE FINE MACHINE - TOOL
WORK GOES INTO THE SKY
THAN INTO ANY OTHER WIND-
MILL MADE.
Bronze bearings machined inside and out, in
machined housings; gears machine-cut, assembly
casting bored and faced, and so on.
If we put in the work, you must take
out the service.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
“Brighton”: Among his early colonial
experiences Adam Lindsay Gordon was
groom-trooper to Commissioner of Police
Tolmer, in Adelaide. Tolmer’s special pet was
a raking bay, a showy animal, remarkably
clever on parade or at ceremonies. It was
Gordon’s duty to bring this animal to head-
quarters when the chief was due to appear in
public. The Commissioner noticed more
than once that his horse was perspiring
more freely than it should after a slow
progress from the distant stables, but it was
not till Gordon was elected to Parliament
that he told Tolmer if was his practice to
ride the charger over all the fences on the
route.
THE ONLY THING HE COULD THINK OF.
FATHER FINNERTY: “Ah, now, ’tis hard loimes ye’re havin’, and I’m sorry ye have to
lave the place and all. But there’ll still be things ye have to be thankful
for.”
SQUEEZED-OUT FARMIER: “Yes, I suppose so, Father—we can still be thankfnl all the
kids is our own.”
“Thoroughbrace”: In the old Kidman
yards at Kapunda (S.A.) are the remains
of the three last coaches that served to
transport passengers and mail in the pre-
motor days of S.A. These are the relics
of the coaching industry carried on by Sid
Kidman and his partners, who served the
Darling River country and conducted the
Westralian goldfield system of passenger
transport before the opening of the x’ailway
to Coolgardie in 1896. The vehicles are too
large to be housed, and for 20 years have
been exposed to wind and weather.
*-* * *
“Echo”: The infallible cockimach-destruc-
tor sought by “C. Coral” is boraeic acid.
Last September we moved
into a house, to find it so
infested with cockroaches
that with concerted action
they could have shifted the
building. The wife bought
two pounds of boraeic acid
and sprinkled it through a
shaker on and behind the
kitchen mantelpiece, in all
cracks around the fire-
places and in all cupboards
and boxes. In a month
cockroaches were scarce,
and in two months they
had disappeared. Three or
four appeared singly dur-
ing the summer, but they
seemed sick and sluggish,
and were easily swatted.
None have been seen since
about February. Even the
tribulations suffered by “G.
.Coral” are not likely to
move him to go creeping
around a 20-ton ketch with
a tin of boraeic acid, but
he may be able to adapt
the idea.
“Cairnsite”: Let me rush to the aid of
“C. Coral” and other seafaring victims of
•' cockroaches. The way to get rid .of the
brutes is to buy a few pounds of sodium
fluoride and dissemjnate this powder in every
cranny of the ship. Then tie up to the
wharf, step ashore: and enjoy watching the
exodus. But don’t let fluoride get under the
finger-nails or in an open sore, as it causes
painful burns.
* * * *
“P.Q.”: “J.K.” (B. 13/5/’3l) tells of the
smallest stockwhip. Forty years ago, when
his stockwhip was , the pride of the over-
lander, there was keen rivalry between whip-
makers Henderson, of Sydney, and Abraham
Brooks, of Melbourne. Brooks plaited a
25ft. thong, to whiclr Henderson replied
with one of 35ft., which he sent to Mel-
bourne as a challenge. The Victorian re-
sponded with the largest whip ever made.
This, 108 ft. from keeper to cracker, perfectly
proportioned and balanced, is still the admi-
ration of cattlemen who visit Foster's
saddlery in Bourke-street. It is not on record
that any of them has attempted to swing the
length of greenhide.
j*s $ &
• “Orn” : Few living organisms are free from
parasites. Bees are afflicted with a reddish,
crablike little devil known as Braula coeca
or “bee louse.” About the bigness of a pin’s
head he perches on the back of his host
and enjoys life. Queen bees are especially
chosen, seating room on their backs at times
being overcrowded with hungry boarders.
The curious thing? is that these lice have no
piercing proboscis and do not suck the blood,
but when hungry, climb on the head. The bee
stands still and puts out its tubelike tongue
with honey in it. The louse takes its drink
and trots back home again. The bees seem
to appreciate their visitors as little as some
of the higher types of animals, and endeavor
to scrape them off. Luckily the lice are
very susceptible to the fumes of camphor or
WHAT MORE COULD THE MAN WANT?
DAD (to discontented farmhand): “Nothin’ to see up here! Why, wasn’t Grand-dad
McGinty’s funeral last week the biggest there ever was on the Quartpot!
And wasn’t there three inches of rain last Toosday! Why, you mightn’t see
the like of those again if you stopped here for ten years!”
tobacco smoke. With a good dose of smoke
they fall to the bottom board of the hive,
to be swept away to the dustheap,
* * * *
“Fauci”: When the London Missionary
Society launched its new steamer John Wil-
liams at Grangemouth,
the officiating lady
smashed the traditional
bottle over her bows.
Of course the bottle
had to be filled with
something teetotal, and
rather appropriately
cocoanut milk, the
“South Sea cham-
pagne,” was chosen. This
recalls an opinion ex-
pressed by Chalmers,
the martyred mission-
ary. At the end of a
long hot walk he was
offered refreshment by
some Papuan friends.
“The native champagne
(cocoanut water) is all
ready in dozens,” he
wrote,' “and soon the
necks are flying.” He
thought it “cooler and
better • than all the
champagne ever pro-
duced in the wine coun-
tries of Europe.” I’m
afraid “Tamate’s” opinion isn’t very widely
entertained, but it looks as if there might
be a commercial future for the stuff if it
could be preserved.
** * •
“M.L.C.”: There are many wild boars on
Flinders Island. Two men putting up a
building were held up by an irate porker who
charged them with such ferocity that they
scrambled up the framework. After throw-
ing many things at the brute without effect
the carpenters finally managed to spear him
with their biggest chisel, with which the pig
promptly decamped.
* * ■ * *
“Cine Ma”: Australian Sound Films, a
Melbourne “Herald” subsidiary which is
The enterprise is at present engaged in im-
mortalising Megascolides, the giant earth-
worm of Gippsland, which is known to
foreign scientists who have never heard of
Mr. Lang. Megascolides is being recorded by
slow-motion from the egg to the adult stage.
He grows to an average length of four feet,
and frequently attains six or more. Recently
some live specimens were exported to Britain
and U.S.A., and local glassblowers were
called to make receptacles which resembled
the tubes used for the Neon light. The giant
earthworm is peculiarly adapted for a talk-
ing film. In travelling along his burrow
he makes a plaintive noise loud enough to
attract _ the attention of a passer-by and
make him think of lost children in the bush.
* * :!:
“Bill R.”: Origin of street names? When
a surveyor first mapped prospective town-
sites on the Southern Monaro tableland he
remarked, when sketching the thoroughfare
that commenced his plan, “It may be a street
some day.” In those early times the only
inhabitants by the river-side were wild
blacks. Maybe-street it is. to-day, the
principal highway through Bombala.
* * H:
“N.A.W.”: Ah Loo was old and conser-
vative. His daughters were young and
modern. Being an obliging parent, it was
only natural 'that when they expressed a
desire for a gramophone he should comply
with their wishes. Unfortunately, among
the. records he bought was one of A 1 Jolson
yowling “Sonny Boy,” and his daughters
took a strange delight in listening to Al’s
melancholy dirge. Ah Loo bravely stuck it
out for a w r eek. Then, his patience being
exhausted, he forbade the playing of the
torture-machine and confiscated a half-used
box of needles. Some days later, to his dis-
gust, he heard for the 947th time Sonny
Boy and his friend making a date in Heaven.
Ilis daughters had purchased a new box of
needles. Ah Loo saw that the time had
come to make an effective protest. Swiftly
he swallowed the contents of the needle-box.
A day later a surgeon opened up a very sore
Chinaman and relieved him of 99 small
pieces of steel, but the daughters took the
hint.
managed by that great photographer Her-
schell, is entering a field hitherto left severely
alone by most of our cinematographers—the
fascinating world which The Bulletin
epitomises in the word “Aboriginalities.” A
recent picture of marine life I have seen is
well up to the standard of the imported film.
YOKING UP THE TEAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Early morning in the city, with the street
lamps still aglow,
With a heavy fog arising from the river
down below, ,
And the silence broken only by a horse s
clattering feet
As the ever-hurrying milkman rounds the
corner of the street.
But the tattoo of the hoofbeats and the
rattle of the chains
Set my town-sick thoughts a-roaming to the
fertile nothern plains,
Where in countless stables, lighted by a
swinging lantern’s gleams,
Up by Charlton and Dimboola they are har-
nessing the teams.
Ere the first faint streaks of morning pierce
the star-bespangled dome,
They are working on the horses with, the
brush and currycomb.
They are sorting out the collars, they are
cursing frozen hands
In the semi-darkness fumbling with the
twisted leather bands. ;
And while someone’s making outcry over
couplings that have gone, ' . : ;
Nancy grabs a final mouthful ere they slip
the winkers on;
Then a scuffle through the gateway, and, with
leading chains a-sway,
They are leading out the workers at the
breaking of the day.
I can almost; hear the jangle of the hame-
hooks as they pass, ■
While the unshod hooves are slipping on the
frost-encrusted grass,
Down the slope towards the fallows four ■
by four and eight abreast,
With the heavy collars; tapping on each
broad and willing chest,
While the, coupling ropes are tested and a
filly reefs and squeals
When she stops a playful wallop from a
leading horse’s heels.
And as Sol explores-the., plainlands with his
first inquiring beams,
Up by Charlton and Dimboola, they are
yoking up the teams.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


On April 23 the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W. suspended payments.
Are any of the other banks likely to do the same ?
Can this drift in the public accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so, who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to come through with the best results?
These, and many other problems of vital interest, are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” /or May.
NOW
ON
SALE
2/-
SINGLE COPY.
226
a year post free.
From Newsagents,
or “Bulletin”
Office, Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH
The name of N.S.W.’s breakaway State
is to be An Revoirina.
* *
“Shop-lifting seems to be on the increase.”
—Sydney PM.
Many firms are certainly suffering from
the pinch.
* *
“Sir Hugh Powers is a bee expert.”— “S. M.
Herald.”
Imagine the “Herald” using language like
that!
PATIENCE EXHAUSTED.
“You know the woman in the flat next to mine—when she got
home last night, she found someone had left a baby on
the mat.”
“Oh, well, I suppose. the Stork had got tired of waiting for her
to come home!”
“At Mt. Gambier a wild cat which weighed 201 b.
was killed and found to contain, the remains of
five rabbits.” — “Herald.”
Unlike the kind that dies naturally, and
when weighed is found to contain nothing.
* *
THE PHENOMENON.
The tourist was intrigued. The statue,
which suggested an attempt at diseased
Epsteinian art by a drunk, represented a
male figure, over the embryonic features of
which flitted a half-witted smile. One hand
was raised aloft, apparently in the act of
enjoining silence, while a halo of wires
appeared above the head, which was bent as
though listening intently. “Say, bo,” in-
quired the stranger of a passer-by, “who’s
the galulam’ gink up aloft —some pahlitician ?”
“No,” replied the local, “though the facial
expression would certainly lead to the
assumption. That was erected to the bloke
who said he was perfectly satisfied with the
broadcast programmes.”
S. W. K.
* *
MY LANDLORD.
Here’s a truth that’s as straight as a rocket.
I’ve frequently put it to proof —
He thinks more of the rent in his pocket
That he does of the holes in his roof!
T. IV. S.
“The trouble began when he sneered at my cook-
ing.”—Divorce evidence.
The brute scoffed instead of scoffing.
¥ *
Commercial candor:—
“For sale, second-hand ear, very little use.—•
Write c/o ‘Launceston Examiner.’ ”
* *
“Should the King open the North Shore Bridge by
radio it will bake Australian history.”— “Sun.”
So long as Australian history isn’t cooked
we can swallow it.
“He posed as a U.S.A. professor, but was really
a New York criminal.” — “Sun.”
Well, he had probably taken his third
degrees.
V #
“Mr. Markham, now on a visit to Australia, has
painted figures on over 300 clocks.” — “Sun.”
One evidently whose business is only
marking time.
AT THE ART EXHIBITION.
JEALOUS CAT ( stopping before picture): “Oh,
there’s Mrs. Fausse-Major!”
ARTIST: “Charming, isn’t she? I’m going
to do her bust, you know.”
JEALOUS CAT: “Don't be absurd! She hasn’t
got one.”
“William Dunn, charged with assault, said the
woman’s husband had kicked him.”
After all, the husband was only carrying
out his age-old privilege of footing the Bill.
NEW INDUSTRY.
“New scents are being manufactured from Aus-
tralian flowers.”—News item.
Some favorite lines
Parfum de Grog-Blossom. —Has a delicate
bouquet, reminiscent of juniper gardens under
the moon or of breweries on still summer
days. Suitable for miladi’s salon —or saloon.
Men affect it, but often mitigate the over-
poweringly sweet odor with a dash of cloves.
Essence of Australian Stocks. —A scent
which commands very high prices, as the
manufacture is risky. The blooms grow on
the edges of precipices, and many collectors
have lost their balances in the search. The
odor is a cross between a bears’ den at
the Zoo and a scorched brake-band.
Flowers of Speech a la Parliament. —A
popular line which, though a little too strong
for the average taste, is found very useful by
explorers. The distillate is sold in one-piece
iron bottles, strongly corked. Should the
unwary traveller become lost, he simply un-
plugs his bottle of Nat.-cmn-A.L.P. The
neighborhood within 50 miles is immediately
informed, and search parties are sent out,
suitably masked.
T. P. B.
* *
PARLIAMENTARY CONTRASTS.
High Salaries.
Low Cunning.
Thick Skins.
Thin Excuses.
Big Promises.
Little Results.
Short Memories.
Long Ears.
P. C.
“It is extremely perilous for a motorist to attempt
to drive with his arm around a girl’s waist.”
—Sydney' motoring authority.
He might run into a church, for instance.
VIEW, MAT.
Motor Salesman: One in going order,
sturdily built and of smart appearance,
desires acquaintance young lady no engine
'or other trouble, streamline body, 1910 or
1911 model. No second-hand jobs considered.
House Agent: Tourer, no defects, ten
minutes station, desires self-contained young
lady, sft. lOin. frontage, good position, out-
look, etc. Inspection invited.
Small advts. man: Sm. ref. man req. meet y.
Idy. sm., fr., 19 or 20, gd. ck., vw. mat.,
Apply XYZ, Sml-I.
Politician: Wanted, young lady, with
means and own machine, by man who
FORCE OF HABIT.
“Why does your mother object so much
to our engagement?”
“Oh, just because father approves of it.”
promises to love, obey or anything else but
has no intention of keeping word. Good
position for three years (perhaps), fluent
liar, splendid linguist; no money, but infinite
capacity for blewing it.
W. P. T.
SONNET.
“In many second-hand shops may now be seen
long rows of saxophones.”— Melbourne “Argus. 1 ”
O Saxophones! that oft have sped my iveary
legs and toes
With rhythmic sobs and syncopated moans!
Whatever the cacophony that from the jazz-
band rose,
Your note o’ertopped them all, O Saxo-
phones !
Using your owner’s ivind you’d rise triumph-
antly; and. blend
In pecans which my aching ear-drums
dinned.
Ah, Saxophones; to what, base jobs we finally
descend!
They’ve used yon now, it seems, to raise
the wind.
I tell you, Saxophones, that lie beneath the
vulgar gaze,
By avaricious pawnbrokers confined.
That when I see your brethren icho in free-
dom spend their days,
Still able to afflict and scourge mankind,
While you’re securely fastened there, in rows
so trimly true —
Then, Saxophones, I pray that they dam’
soon will, follow you!
T.P.B.
SYDNEY WEATHER.
LONG-FELT WANT SOPPLIED.
Our patent meteorological reports in which
weather forecasts are scientifically explained in the
light of subsequent developments.
Tuesday. The forecast for to-day was, it
will be remembered by weather-students:
Hot, dry nor’-westers, reaching greatest
velocity 27 m.p.h. at 11 a.m.j bright sun-
shine; beginning of prolonged dry spell.
Explanation: The origin of to-day’s south-
easter, reaching gale force of 65 m.p.h. at
South Head lighthouse, and accompanied by
tropical rain-storms resulting in disastrous
floods in the Hawkesbury district, is a pres-
sure-system operating over the Tasman Sea
which has, so to speak, moved backwards and
sideways under a succession of hammer-blows
by quick velocity millibars. The humidity,
which reached 72 per cent, at 10 a.m. on
Sunday in Manly, adversely affected the
Observatory’s instruments; but the Tasman
Sea business would
have happened in
any event.
Thursday. Steady
rain, with hail,
thunder and light-
ning, and heavy
snow on the moun-
tains —such, as stu-
dents of our vatici-
nations will recall,
was yesterday’s offi-
cial prophecy for the
ensuing 24 hours.
Explanation: The
heat wave which
arrived this morning
via the Western
Plains, with all its
dismaying drought
possibilities, not
merely for Sydney,
but for the entire
State, is due to the
unexpected presence
of isobars so m e
high, some low and
a few of medium
stature n.-w. of
Alice Springs*. The
unwelcome visitants
arrived at 7.15 a.m.
—with the baro-
meter steady at
29.683 in Canberra,
and an average rain-
fall at Sydney for
73 years totalling
4762 points and
ha v e refused to
leave. They are at
present with friends
on the outskirts of
the town. The posi-
tion has not been
improved by the
state of affairs at Tweed Heads (n.-e. mod-
erate; fine; .sea slight) ; or by the rainfall at
Adaminaby, viz. (for the 24 hours ended at
8 a.m.), 23.
Saturday. Ideal pony-racing weather was
our tip for the week-end. Clear skies and a
gentle westerly. The going will.be hard at
Robbery Park, and should suit Blind Stag-
gers. The Kenso . battler ■is known to be
carrying the boodle of the jockeys' ring, and,
as tlie rest of the field has been stiffened,
he should be there or thereabouts when the
whips crack.
Explanation : Sporting readers of our fore-
casts were doubtless puzzled when news came
through that South Sydney’s classic con-
vincing-ground was a quagmire bv 10 a.m.,
and that the grandstand had been struck by
lightning. To the scientific mind the pheno-
menon presented no difficulties. Congested
barometric gradients had been reported south
of a line joining Grandangle and Tambo.
Simultaneously a disturbance of a combined
tropical and arctic nature had started over
that bane of the weather-prophet’s existence
the Tasman Sea. What followed was,
meteorologically speaking, inevitable. Our
calculations point to fine weather next Satur-
day—always provided monsoonal conditions
do not materialise.
10-2-4.
ANALYSIS.
“A sister of petitioner deposed that respondent
‘called his wife names which he is and she isn’t-’ ”
— “Herald.”
He is and she's not
What he called her.
What ivas it, oh what,
That so galled her?
Was it something red, hot,
This dark failing of his?
Did he modestly spot,
Or “blew” money on fizz,
Let the home go to pot,
And half-ruin his biz,
Anyhow, she is not
What he said —and he is!
J. H.
SPORTING NOTES.
The N.S.W. football season was opened
yesterday, when the annual Parliamentarj
fixture took place. , *„ nn .
The jerseys of the Government team
ranged from scarlet to pale pmk, spi^aslie
with purple patches. The Opposition were
in lily white embroidered with halos.
The Government team was very strong
on the left wing, while the adept side-step-
ping of the captain behind the pack m.
an eye-opener. Unfortunately the game was
marred by a series of deplorable ep s s,
and the language used by both sides was ho
rible. There was not one good straight lun
throughout the match. _
Only on one occasion did a
likely,' when the Government captain flukily
took a wild pass, put his head down and
went for the line, after dodging the Oppo-
sition captain, who was too busy reading
a protest against the iniquitous methods ot
the alleged Government to intercept him.
A score seemed inevitable, but Big flack
crashed head-on into the goal-post—which
happened to be his own. Play had to be
stopped while a new goal-post was procured.
When one of the Government team was
“named” and given liis. marching orders,
. • . J « fli nr rho
accusations were made that the
Opposition team had bought the
referee. Uproar followed, and
with the well-known cries of
"Scabby mongrel!” ( “Putrid
guttersnipe!” and “Lying
swine!” the teams joined issue,
the match ending in a free-for-
all scrap.
Prior to the kick-off, the
teams lined up, facing one an-
other, and delivered with great
gusto their combined war cry, “You blank,
blank, blanks!” to the accompaniment of
division bells.
S. W. K.
TALE OF A TAX.
Tom Blinkers was a racing man
And good at picking winners,
Depending on the equine game
For breakfasts, teas and dinners.
Then Lang appeared and stung the sport
With his taxation nettle. - *
They say Tom r s good at picking still,
But now he's picking metal.
O’BLEAK.


d
n
JL I;
erformance...
far above the price
In the teeming city traffic—in the far-back country
down the fertile valleys—up the mountain peaks—
wherever made road or winding track may lead—
you will find the Ford car and cheery words about
it . . . Building and maintaining this popularity is
a standard of performance envied by owners of
costlier cars. For the speed and power of the New
Ford are as unusual as the sturdy strength and
enduring quality that have been built into it . . .
By its constant, faithful service over
thousands of miles—through the
months and years —the Ford is re-
cognised as Value far above the Price
d
r
i ford. cars
I TRUCKS AND
| TRACTORS ARE
| BRITISH EMPIRE j
| PRODUCTS j
N.O.
44
The New Town Sedan
d
ford motor
OMP A N
AUSTRALIA PTY
LTD
™ ( ; ES ; S,amiard Phaeton and Roadster *218; Sports Phaeton *230; Sports Roadster *233; Sports Coupe
*295; Fordor Sedan *305; Town Sedan *315. All prices F. 0.8. nearest Ford Works Sales Tax Extra


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in the State that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary; It. V. BOOTH
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
«»JL*
M WM
m
S /
MB
:
D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best family
cough and influenza remedy.”
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist advises parents to saw
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. By doing tms
you will have a supply equal in quantity to
eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture bottles
that would cost up to £l. Heenzo is the
ideal family cough remedy because ot its
absolute purity and freedom from narcotics.
Therefore, it is a safe and good remedy for
even the youngest baby, as well as adults. A
bottle of concentrated Heenzo will cost yoo
2/- at all leading chemists and stores. Over
one million citizens annually prove the
goodness and economy of HEEJNZU as a
speedy and reliable remedy for banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza,
and whooping cough. Thrift is a sign
wisdom. Buy a bottle of HEENZO to-day,
and have it in the home for immediate use
at the first sign of chest and throat ailments."
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LIHSEED MEAL
RATE OF SEEDING.
“Bags” : We talk of rate of seeding for
most of our crops in pounds per acre.
I suggest we should have a better idea of
what we are doing if we were to think
about number of seed sown per lineal foot
of drill row. The following are some
relevant facts for wheat.
In an acre of drilling at the universal
seven-inch spacing between rows, there are
approximately 74,700 feet of drill row. In
an average sample of seed wheat there are
about 11,400 grains per lb. Thus the more
common seeding rates in terms of grains per
foot, are:—
Grains sown per foot of drill row 6 8 10 12 14
Seed in lib. per acre . . .. 39 52 65 78 91
Now comes the question of what is a
fair thing; and in this connection one can
only state general principles.
(1) Under average conditions In the Yic.
wheat belt, the germination percentage runs
about 80, and for every three grains sown
two plants produce grain at harvest.
(2) The lighter the rate of seeding the
greater the safety factor from a drought-
resistance point of view. It is better to
have six plants per foot bearing two heads
per plant than 12 bearing one. It is easier
to “burn off” a crop with too much seed
than with too much super.
(3) Early sowing means light seeding; late
sowing a heavier seeding—for two reasons.
First, with colder conditions, the germina-
tion percentage will be lower; second, the
individual plant development will be smaller.
Putting the seed rate up one cog on the drill
should suffice.
(4) Under the same rainfall conditions, the
seeding on a loamy soil may well be lighter
than that on a heavy soil, for the plants will
grow bigger on the loam. The heaviest
rate of seeding in Yic., 90-1001 b. per acre,
is applied on the cold, heavy clay soils of
the Western District.
(5) Don’t sow too heavily by accident. If
your grain sample looks a bit smaller than
average, don’t be afraid to cut down the
rate a couple of cogs on the drill. Its ger-
mination percentage won’t differ so very
much from a normal sample.
WOOL STABILISATION.
“A. for A.”: The United Graziers’
Associations of Queensland favor a wool-
stabilisation scheme, holding that under the
existing system of marketing the law or
supply and demand does not function. The
graziers of N. S. Wales have, declared
against any such form of stabilisation on
the ground (the majority voting in confer-
ence maintained) that it would interfere
with the operation of the same natural law.
Both cannot be right.
Booms and slumps have characterised the
wool market since B.A.W.R.A. ceased to
operate. If they could be eliminated, and
a steady price-level of the product estab-
lished, no greater blessing could come the
way of Australia.
From Nov., 1916, to June, 1920. the
Imperial Wool Purchase Scheme operated,
and for the whole Commonwealth the aver-
age price thereunder was 151 d. per lb., plus
a half-share in any profits. After reverting
to the open market, a rapid decline set in
until 9Jd. per lb. was touched in 1921. To
prevent a further decline, the Federal Gov-
ernment under W. M. Hughes placed upon
if a minimum reserve, which had the de-
sired effect of recovering the market.
The profits of the speculator were set out
plainly in an article published the following
year by the “Statist.” It gave in detail a
series of prices realised by speculators who
had purchased merino wools in Australia
and resold in London. A list of 90 clips
from N.S.W., Queensland and Victoria was
given, and it was shown that the London
sale price exceeded the Australian price by as
much as 16d. per lb., the average excess
being about lOd.
In March, 1923, the “S. M. Herald” stated
in its wool article that objectionable prac-
tices were in evidence in the wool auction-
room. Among other things, it said: “Of
late it has become apparent to any onlooker
that competition in the wool auction-room
has been laboring under artificial restriction.
Buying arrangements are obviously in exist-
ence to restrain the competition which is
the essence of auction-selling.”
The “Wool Record and Textile World” of
October, 1924, published a list of 180 clips
which had been bought in Australia and re-
offered at the fifth series of London wool
auctions. It stated that “the list does not
by any means exhaust the possibilities of
comparison, for numerous other lists from
N.S.W. could be tabulated; but sufficient
examples are given to show that specula-
tors have realised handsome profits.” Tak-
ing the whole of the parcels- of which par-
ticulars arc given, the excess of the London
selling price over the Australian-buying
price averaged B.lod. per lb. So much for
the last slump.
As the outcome of general dissatisfaction,
and in view of the stabilising success that
attended the efforts of 8.A.W.R.A., John
Higgins, at the request of woolgrowers,
submitted a scheme at Melbourne in June,
1925, to those authorised to represent them.
On that occasion he made the following
pertinent statement: “It is not divulging
any secret —the fact is pretty well known
to the trade—that, had not B.A.W.R.A. or
some other organisation of a like nature
accepted the responsibility of marketing this
wool, combinations of speculators were
ready to purchase from the British Govern-
ment the whole of the carry-over wool at
once and market it as and when they
deemed best. Had that development taken
place, and syndicates obtained control, sub-
sequent clips might not have received the
considerate treatment which B.A.W.R.A.
gave them. I contend that the growers
should exercise authority in fixing reserves,
as. the prices bid at auction may be some-
thing quite different from the factors which
determine the true value of wool.” And
at Tamworth in December the president of
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association found rea-
son to describe the prevailing practice of
lot-splitting within the wool auction-room
as “an unquestionably serious menace.”
The foregoing evidence cannot be dis-
posed of lightly. If it is accepted the public
would be justified in asking if it is possible
for the natural law of supply and demand
to thrive in the artificial atmosphere created
by a buying arrangement to restrict bids
within the auction-room. The Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council has stated that the
recent price-level reflecting the subnormal
value of 7d. per lb. was the outcome of the
operation of this natural law. The council
should be asked to establish proof that at
the time the market was uninfluenced by
“an unquestionably serious menace.”
WILLEYING WOOL.
“Sandrift” : Strange that the willeying of
wool in our back country should have been
undertaken only recently. The thing has
been known for very many years in England
and Europe. Besides the knocking out of 25
per cent, to 50 per cent, of foreign matter
before the wool goes into the scouring bowl,
the fibre is opened up and the scouring
liquor acts immediately. Economy is effected
by using less material in the scouring liquor,
and time and labor are saved in cleaning
up the scouring machine.
For very many years China, too, has been
using willeying machines and also cleansing
wool by hand labor. Most of the wool grown
in Mongolia, Manchuria and the Gobi
desert is sandy; nearly all of it is treated
prior to exporting. The large export houses
have willeying machines. Others engage
hand labor at a cheap rate. Coolies stand on
each side of a series of screens and pass
the wool from hand to hand, shaking it
vigorously.
Australian back-country growers could
save an enormous amount of freight by
willeying their wool prior to transporting it.
Some growers may be dubious a<s to whether
the fibre is injured in the process. The class
of wool treated, however, is mainly backs,
which are always tender and generally
perished by the mineral action on the fibre,
and the locks of the clips. Both these are
purely carding wools, and cannot be injured
by the willeying process.
SHEARING-SHED RACES.
“Kripple”: Suggestions given to pastoral-
ists by shearers and the like regarding
improvements to their sheds not infrequently
bring the reply, “Oh, what does it matter —
the shed is only used a few weeks in the
year.” “Murrawong” (B. 15/4/’3l) ex-
plained the necessity for alterations where
faults exist within the sheds, but some of the
worst are to be found outside them, particu-
larly in regard to the forcing races. Instead
of being at the end or rear, away from noise
and the traffic of passing hands, some
designers have contrived to construct the
race where these hindrances are greatest,
resulting in sheep being knocked about get-
ting them into the shed.
I have vivid recollections of a shed where
the race was alongside a noisy oil-engine
and expert shop. Penncrs-up were driven
almost frantic at times in their endeavors to
keep the sheep up. The owner one day
caught a man using rough tactics. “Sack
that fellow,” came the order; ‘‘l’ll pen-up
myself until you get a sensible man from
town.” Within three hours that owner,
kicking, dragging, belting and jabbing with
a stick his own sheep, w T as utterly defeated in
liis own efforts to keep the shearers going.
At another shearing a penner-up in a fit
of hysteria started to tear his clothes and
hair because of the difficulties in a stupidly-
built race. Returning to the shed years
later I found things just the same, because
“the sheds were only used a few weeks in
the year.” But how many sheep found dead
in the paddocks were sacrificed through the
race being in the wrong place?
SHEEP-FLY AND CYPRESS-PINE.
“Mulyan” : It has been asserted that where
cypress-pine grows there is little or no trouble
from the blowfly pest; but that is not my
experience. The worst-infested part I ever
struck, both for common flies and blowflies,
was on the Maranoa (Q.) ; and there are
large forests of cypress-pine along that river.
It was in mid-summer, and there was abund-
ance of green grass and water, following
a wet period. But flies are always bad near
watercourses; they prefer moist country
where there is some sort of ground vegetation.
Cypress-pine flourishes just as well on dry,
sandy patches and low hills far away from
watercourses. In such places there is not
much undergrowth, and flies are not trouble-
some. This has given the impression that
the odor from the trees is responsible for the
immunity. Among the cluilips in dry areas
we found no flies, but along the Maranoa
they buzzed as numerously in the pine forests
as among other vegetation. But the timber
does repel white ants.
HORSE-BREEDING SYNDICATES.
“Bendee”: A Quebec scheme for the
establishment of syndicates of horse-breeders
is worthy of imitation in a country in
which the once-great horse-breeding industry
has suffered such a decline. A syndicate
consists of at least 10 members, each of
whom agrees to become the owner of a
pure-bred registered mare; the syndicate
itself accepts responsibility for borrowing,
purchasing or hiring a stallion. Each mem-
ber must subscribe an amount at least equal
to the cost of the mare, and must pay 40
per cent, on account.
Syndicates are registered with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, which lends, without
interest, 60 per cent, of the cost of the
horses, up to £lOOO. Repayment is made
in four equal annual instalments, commenc-
ing a year after the registration of a syn-
dicate. Until a buyer has fulfilled his
obligations, ho may not, without written
permission, sell or dispose of the animal
bought. The department also gives an
annual grant of £4O a year for the upkeep
of the stallion, subject to periodical in-
spection.
Time was when Australian horses had
a great name for style and stamina. Good
draughts are now scarce, and the splendid
types of remounts for which there was such
a steady demand in India are almost un-
procurable. No State Government has
much money to spend on horse-breeding
syndicates at present, but the breeders could
help themselves very considerably by organ-
ising on Quebec lines and insisting on breed-
ing to standard types.
POTASH AS A FERTILISER.
“K. Alyum”: In Germany, where immense
deposits of potash exist, the sale of mixed
complete fertilisers is forbidden. The Gov-
ernment and the trade recognise the crass
stupidity of applying concentrated fer-
tilisers containing the three essential plant
foods —nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash
—to soils which are abundantly supplied
with one or more of these. The German
system is to conduct pot tests on the soil.
These are supplemented, when the occasion
warrants, by farm plots with the object of
finally deciding upon the most economical
fertiliser to apply to any given class of
soil.
“Wilt” (B. 18/3/’3l) disputes the value
of pot tests, mainly because he does not
understand that the soil to be tested would,
of course, consist of the immediate surface
soil and the subsoil. In the box test re-
commended, the soil would be taken in situ
to a depth of two feet or thereabouts, the
subsoil being necessary for a water reservoir
apart from other considerations. “Wilt” will
agree that all tests are prone, to show irregu-
larities and that pot tests should be _ per
plant and farm plots likewise. It is a
great mistake to compute yields per acre
when you have lost, say, five per cent, of
the seed from injury.
“Wilt” remains unconvinced that potash
is a useful fertiliser, particularly with regard
to its effect on the germ or sprout. The
details of my experiment were not given,
and apparently it was not made clear that
sprouted seed from every plot was re-sown
under like conditions, including the tubers
from three check plots. The potash fer-
tiliser was broadcast on the fall plough-
ing, thereby obtaining a .more even distri-
bution of the fertiliser and avoiding any
danger of “sprout burn” caused by sowing
potash with the seed. Application of potash
as a remedy for defoliation of citrus trees
is not my idea; it came from a German
source. The results were most convincing
to me; the pudding was proved by eating
it. A doctor would not cut off a leg to
cure toothache, and it is granted that a
potash dressing would not cure defoliation
caused by bad drainage. “Wilt Resistant’s”
(B. 22/4/’3l) experiment with a complete
fertiliser on tomatoes proves (or) that: the
soil is abnormal and (b) that the tomato
plants suffered from over-manuring (concen-
trated soil solution) in the case of the heavy
dressings.
It is quite possible to obtain 100 per cent,
decrease in the yield between the manured
and unmanured plots. AH you have to do
is to apply sufficient artificial fertiliser to
kill the plants, as I have done on more than
one occasion. The theory that potash com-
bining with the iron-oxide (be it ferrous or
ferric) of the soil would form an insoluble
compound is incorrect. Ironstone soils are
of volcanic origin and analysis _ discloses
them to be moderately rich in their content
of potash. .
WHEN TO PLANT BANANAS.
“Jolinno”: Bananas should not be planted
later than the end of March, not even in
the warmer parts of Queensland. Though
the plants will take root and grow if con-
ditions arc moist enough, they never seem
to do well. Should the winter be cold and
dry the trees are slow in getting a move on
in the spring. And unless exceptionally
good growing weather is experienced all
through the following summer, they are
likely to come into bearing in winter, with
the consequent loss of the crop, or an in-
ferior crop is obtained at best. The suckers,
coming away early, may also reach the
fruiting stage in the cold-weather months:
the suckers in late plantings often overtake
the parent plant, to its disadvantage.
Often when planting is carried out late
in the season and good rains do not follow
soon after, the plants, after taking root,
will die back to the conn or bulb, which will
send up suckers in the spring, the ground
being moist enough. These suckers, however,
have not the vitality of those springing from
the roots of a growing tree, and the resul-
tant bunch is as a rule not much better than
that of a first-plant tree, which produces
but a moderate-sized bunch —10 to 12 dozen
on an average. The first suckers are the
producers of bunches, and the aim should
be to plant at such a period as will give
these every chance. Plant in November,
December and January—-preferably Novem-
ber in the southern districts.
DON’T CLEAN INCUBATOR EGGS.
“Chookey” : Cleanliness on a poultry-farm
is a very necessary virtue, but there are
directions in which Mother Nature dis-
approves of it. Many newcomers to the
poultry business wipe eggs over with a damp
cloth before placing them in the incubator.
Eggs look a lot prettier when cleaned like
that, and when old hands at the game sug-
gest that it . not only isn’t necessary but is
harmful they are laughed at.
The overseer of one of the M.L. Agricul-
ture Department’s poultry-farms had Ins
doubts on the subject, so he made a practical
test. Two gross of eggs were placed on two
trays in an incubator, being first cleaned.
Another two gross were put on two other
trays in the same incubator just as they came
from the nest. All the eggs ..were the same
age, and the position of the trays m the
incubator was changed twice daily.
On the seventh day all the eggs were
tested. Seventy-eight cleaned eggs were cast
out —43 contained dead germs and So were
infertile. Only 43 uncleaned eggs were re-
jected—ls with dead germs and 28 infertile.
On the 14th day another test was made,
when 12 of the cleaned and 5 of the un-
cleaned eggs were found to contain dead
germs. The incubator was opened on the
23rd day, when it was found that 106 ot tne
cleaned eggs had failed to hatch as again*!
only 62 of the uncleaned. Eight deformed
chicks came from cleaned eggs that aid hatch ;
none from the uncleaned. Chicks from the
cleaned eggs took 10 to 12 hours longer to
hatch than those from uncleaned eggs.
(QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is the caustic vine (Sarcostemma aus-
trale) poisonous to stock? —3-42.
Feeding experiments have definitely proved
it to be poisonous to stock, a few ,°E
being sufficient to kill a sheep; but 1
Turner, an authority on Australian pastin'
(Continued on page 26.)


m
%
M
f
m
i
%
i-
n
m
m
>
4
7a
Every Evening...
there is no better aid to
relaxation than a glass of
that true lager—Tooth’s
K B—rich in the vitamins
that come from pure malt
and freshly picked hops.
Try a bottle to-night.
d
TOOTH’S
LAGER


; :
SB
THE BEST AVAILABLE
LEATHER
. . . .made into an Abbey boot
that’s flexible and amazingly
easy-fitting. Note its smart
design and comfortable shape.
THREE WIDTHS.—There are
both full and half sizes, and
each is made in three fittings—
narrow, medium and wide.
ARCHED INSTEP.—As the
illustration . shows, its upper
curves over the instep arch in
a way that eliminates strain and
ensures neatest fit.
ORDER BY POST if unable to
call for fitting. State width and
size, and ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a complete
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf - - - - 557-
Black Glace Kid - - - - 557-
Black Box Calf 50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL23O
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One=third of Queensland’s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 &%
GREATER
than that of its Morning,
C ontemporary.
* * *
Foil can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
MarJcet, from :
Che Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906,
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107‘
Fleet-street.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
*ll
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cub
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Balance-sheet as at 28th February, 1931.
LIABILITIES.
Subscribed Capi-
tal £2,463,082 0 0
Capital Paid Up—
Preference .. 439,379 15 5
Ordinary .. 22 0 0
£2,102,443 2 3
ASSETS.
Common wealth *
Notes and Coin £37,890 16 1
Balances due by
other Banks .. 87,891 1 11
Money at Short
Call . . . . 92,000 0 0
Common wealth
Treasury Bonds 145,678 0 10
Bills Receivable
and Remittances
in Transit .. 12,626 16 8
Total Liquid Assets .. . . £376,086 15 6
Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances
and other Assets .. .. .. 1,592,318 O' 4
Bank Premises .. .. .. 118,188 11 2
Furniture and Fittings .. .. 15,849 15 3
£2,102,443 2 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For 12 Months Ended 28th February, 1931.
To Balance Carried Forward
. . £9,423 7 8
£9,423 7 8
By Balance from last year . . .. £8,433 12 1
„ Balance of Profit and Loss for the
year, after deducting Rebate on
Current Bills and Expenses of
Management, Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees, Interest on Fixed
Deposit, Thrift Department, and
, Current Accounts, etc. .. .. 989 15 "
£9,423 7 8
W. A. BOYD, General Manager. HENRY SCHWIEGER, Chairman of Directors.
We have examined the attached Balance-sheet made up to the 28th February, 1931, and report
that we find the several items therein stated to conform to the balances in the General Ledger and
the Branch Statements collectively. We have counted the cash held by the Bank at Head Office on the
28th February, 1931, and certify that we have found it correct. The cash, bills and other securities
held at the Branch Offices in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia
and Tasmania on the date of balancing have been certified to as being correct by the Branch Managers.
London audited statements have been accepted as correct and incorporated. We certify that the above
Balance-sheet is in conformity with the books of the Bank.
H J TRIST 1
H. J. BRIGDEN & BARCLAY j
Auditors
Chartered Accountants (Aus.)'
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
plants, says the plant is looked upon in West-
ralia as quite a useful fodder in times of
drought. It may be that the qualities of the
plant vary according to geographical distri-
bution.
(1) My heifer has a wart developing under
the eye. What is the hest treatment? (2)
Cause? (3) My Illawarra cow when due
to calve in about 10 days developed, pre-
sumably, bladder trouble of some sort, which
caused great pain. Cause and remedy ?—
3197.
(1) Digate the wart tightly enough to cut
off the circulation and it will drop off after
a short while. (2) Not known. (3) Pro-
bably was not bladder trouble. The straining
was probably due to constipation in the first
place, which was afterwards rectified. It
would be advisable to allow nature to take
its course.
(1) Is the district midway between Wood-
burn and Chatsworth (N.S.W.) bounding the
main road suitable for dairying and cattle-
raising? (2) Approximate carrying capa-
city under normal seasonal conditions? (3)
Unimproved, capital value? —3501.
(1) No. The soil is too poor. (2) One
head of large stock to 20 acres. (3) From
10s. to 13s. 4d. per acre.
What is the best breed of cattle for beef
as shown by the records of the leading shores
of the world? —3055.
There is no proved best breed of beef cattle.
Breeds have been developed to suit environ-
mental conditions in different countries, and
to meet particular demands. Breeders owe
their success in show rings and markets to
their skill in producing animals which
haye the capacity to rapidly lay on well-
marbled, thick flesh on those parts of the
carcase which produce the highest-priced
cuts.
My milking cows are tormented by a
blood-sucking fly about the size of a house
fly. What are they, how do they breed,
and how can I protect the cows against
them?— 3233.
Probably the “biting stable-fly” ( Stomyx
calcitrans) , an introduced insect found
throughout the world wherever there are
habitations. The maggots breed normally
in decaying grass or straw, piles of lawn clip-
pings or manure. A repellent, stated to be
efficient, used in Indiana (U.S.A.) consists of
a mixture of used crankcase oil, one gallon,
and oil of tar, one pint. A gallon is sufficient
for 10 cows for two weeks if sprayed once
a day. A spraying immediately after the
morning milking was found generally to be
sufficient, although a second spray applied
just before the evening milking was some-
times thought desirable. A compressed-air
sprayer is the most satisfactory type. The
screening of bails with fly gauze has been
suggested elsewhere to give relief during
milking.
(1) How does the Imbert portable gas
plant function? (2) Where can further
information be obtained? —3108.
(1) Dry small branch wood cut to about
2in. length or larger wood cut to about 2in.
cube blocks is placed in an air-tight hopper,
from which it feeds direct into a furnace
below. Air is admitted through nozzles and
drawn downwards through the furnace to a
number of tubes fitted with baffle plates,
where the gas is cleaned and cooled before
passing to the engine. The motor must be
fitted with special cylinder heads giving a
compression ratio of about 6to 1. (2)
Noyes Bros., 597 Lonsdale-street, Melbourne,
agents for Berliet cars, have experimented
with the Imbert.
(1) Where can I get statistics as to
amount of locally-grown and imported
tobacco consumed in Australia? (2) What
are the prospects of the price for Aus-
tralian-grown tobacco remaining stable? —
3062.
(1) “Commonwealth Year-Book.” (2)
Can’t prophesy, but the protection afforded
by the tariff should be of material assist-
ance to the Australian grower.
Can linseed (for seed purposes) be profit-
ably grown in the Wimmera (Vic.) district?
—3266.
It lias not. been grown in the Wimmera,
so there is nothing to go on. The experi-
ence of other countries shows that this crop
can be grown in districts with a rainfall
of 21in. or more, and possibly also in dis-
tricts with a rainfall of as little as 18in.
if sown on well-worked fallow.
Evaporated apples that have become dark
in color during storage are treated in the
TJ.S.A. by steeping in a solution of caustic
soda, resulpivuring and redrying. Would the
apples after such treatment be fit for human
consumption ? —3149.
The treatment hasn’t been tested in Aus-
tralia. It doesn’t sound attractive, and even
if successful it is doubtful if it would be
profitable except .during periods of shortage.
Anyway, if properly stored, dried apples
don’t discolor.
(1) Can you tell me how to lay out an
orchard? (2) Best varieties of fruit to plant
at Wyalong (N.S.W.)? (3) Do you think
they would require artificial watering in my
district? (4) Where could I get trees near
at hand? —3492.
(1) Get leaflet “Laying and Planting an
Orchard” from the N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.
(2) Apples: Granny Smith, Ben Davis and
Delicious : figs: Large Purple j Genoa and
Brown Turkey; peaches: High’s Early
Canada, Zerbe’s Early, Wiggin’s, Blackburn
and Dripstone Elberta; plums: Angelina
Burdett, Giant and Grand Duke; Jap
plums: Santa Rosa, Wickson, Narrabeen
and Jap Sultan; nectarine: Goldmine;
pears: Williams, Packliam’s Triumph, Jose-
phine and Beurre Bose. It is probable they
will require some artificial watering. (4)
The Griffith Producers’ Co-op. will be able
to inform you of local nurseries which could
supply trees.
T have an orchard not far from Adelaide.
My employee, who lives on the property,
receives wage, house free and a bonus of
or p,c. oil marketing fruit and vegetables.
Vam considering going fifty-fifty with him
in poultry; I to supply land, sheds and
yards, and he the labor—his wife will look
'after the birds. Suppose lie receives half
the profits, would it be fair that he should
find half the expense in birds and eggs to
start up, and also half-cost of food, except
greenstuff grown on the land? —3020.
Scarcely an attractive proposition from
the employee’s point of view. With two
partners 1000 to 1200 adult birds must be
kept if a reasonable return for each party
is to be obtained, and with this number of
stock the wife would not be able to do all
the work. Besides, the capital outlay for
housing, stock, etc., would be considerable.
Authorities consulted are not favorable to
poultry-farming on a partnership basis.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bilbo” : Although there may be a dozen
carcases in your paddocks, crows, as a rule,
pay particular attention to one. This is
where poison should be applied. If there
is not sufficient of the carcase left effective
results can be got by bringing rabbits or
another fresh sheep carcase to the spot after
the crows have gone to roost. Phosphorus
mixed with fat is the best poison; melt fat
enough to work the 'phosphorus in and
spread on carcase. If using arsenic, paint
or pour sparingly on and inside the opened
carcase.
“Koolonga” : When going mustering, walk
your horse for at least the first quarter of a
mile and give him a chance to warm his i
legs. Always walk the last half-mile home
if you’ve been riding hard, so that he can
get cool and be ready for a rub down. To
overwork your mount is bad horsemanship,
but should it happen, get him well bedded
down and give him a feed of either warm
gruel or warm steamed oats; a nobbier of
whisky or brandy in the gruel won’t do any
harm. Also rug him well and look after
his legs.
“Rotom” : In the far line of wire fencing
leave here and there an emergency point at
which a boundary-rider, stockman or fire-
beater may cross into the next run without
a long ride to the slip-panel. Select adjacent
posts. Into them at the height required for
the wires drive close together pairs of hori-
zontal staples. Between these place the wires
and secure the strands by dropping a nail
through the eyes. The nails can be pulled
at any time, the wires tied down to the
base of one of the posts with a stirrup
leather or whip-lash, and the horse led
over. Afterwards the wires are easily
replaced.
“Go Do”: Why do Australians send so
many thousands of pounds abroad for pur-
chase of seed? They have bred strains of
wheat, maize, etc., that are finer than
imported varieties; and vegetable seed,
locally grown and selected, also gives better
results than imported. Many serious plant
diseases were introduced to this country in
seed. Growers will always pay a good
price for seed that can be guaranteed.
“Hatter”: As “Woolaway” (B. 13/5/’3l)
states, woolgrowers continue to use tar, pitch
or paint for branding, in spite of the pro-
tests of the manufacturers. Why don’t they
adopt the brand recommended after thorough
trials by the British Research Association i
Here it is: Wool fat, 45 parts by weight;
lime blue, 5 parts; barytes, 20 parts; Emco
(paraffin spirit) 25 parts.
“Disc Harrow”: The worst enemy the
orchardist can have round his sheds and
stacked fruit is a rat. If you come across
a few nibbled apples in the cases and find
adjacent fruit starting to rot, it will pay
to search out the rodent, even if you have
to move every case. I have known one rat
loose in an underground cool store to spoil
20 full cases. Traps and poison had no
effect —the only remedy was to shift the
stack, with good dogs at hand.
“Disc Harrow”: In pruning fruit trees
it is sometimes necessary to remove water
shoots springing from the stem of the tree
or even from below ground level. Make
sure that the cut is flush with the trunk.
Any small stub left will be full of buds, and j
there will be worse trouble next year.
“F.F.S.” At this time of year the greatest
pest N.S.W.. banana-growers have to con-
tend with is the sow-thistle, which grows
abundantly in between the rocks, and must
be chipped out (a cow of a job) or
sprayed. Arsenic pentoxide is the best
spray and the cheapest. The great difficulty
is to wet the surface of the thistles, but this
can be overcome by adding soap to the spray.
Cut up half a bar of common wasliing-soap
and boil in a petrol-tin of water until dis-
solved. Use alf lb. jam-tin at the rate of
one tin of soap mixture to four gallons
of spray—keep the soap mixture warm.
“Jack Point”: Despite precautions, out-
breaks of roup are liable to occur in a severe
winter. Symptoms are difficulty in breathing,
cough, swollen cheek, clogged nostril, dis-
charge and moping. Isolate affected birds and
spray all houses with disinfectant. Syringe
nostrils with a strong solution of perman-
ganate of potash, or a teaspoon of boracic
to half a teaspoon of salt to half a pint
of warm water. Better than syringing, per-
haps, is to dip the bird’s head in a solution
of permanganate of potash the color of
claret.
“Cockatoo”: A recipe for tanning cow-
hides much in favor among M.L. farmers
who take a pride in making their own bridles,
reins, poll-straps, etc., of good “white
leather”:—
Take a full bucket of burnt lime mixed with enough
water to cover hide in a barrel or large milk-can.
Soak hide for 10 days, turning frequently ; then take
out, spread on floor (concrete for preference), hair
side up, and scrape off hair. After taking off all
hair, soak for two days in a bucket of bran with
water to cover ; this will clean up the hide. Next
soak for 10 days in a solution of 101 b. salt, 101 b.
ground alum ' and loz. oxalic acid, mixing materials
together with sufficient water to cover and turning
hide frequently. Then tack hide on wall and stretch
as tight as possible. When dry it is fit to use.
“Kapunda”: A South Aus. lambing and
shearing record which will take some beating.
Kalabity station shore a flock of 2096
rising five-year-old merino ewes last month
from which it had marked 100 per cent,
lambs last October. The average clip from the
ewes was 45.32 bales per 1000 ewes, or an
average of 141 b. lfoz. of wool for 11
months’ growth. The eight-month lambs
from these ewes cut over 71b. wool on the
average, and there were only three of those
marked the previous October which failed to
put in an appearance on the board to be
relieved of their overcoats.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is. reserved,
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices’ are not admissible.
Wants.
Civil engineer (27), Tas., wants job survey engi-
neering (civil or mining), draughtsman or foreman
preferred.—344o.
Young man (23), Melb. Uni. graduate (commerce),
four years’ exp., confidential position, knowledge Ger-
man and French, wants employment.—3367.
Fitter, with exp. of filtration and chlorination of
water supply, wants job on station, Q. or N.S.W.
—3427.
Young man (27), S.A., exp. carpentry, house-
painting, decorating, repairs and masonry, wants
job anywhere.—342l.
Young Englishman, stiff knee, result accident,
employed wheat farm, wants lighter work, orchard,
poultry, gardening. Refs. (W.A.). —3423.
Middle-aged gentleman (Vic.) wants position as
reader or secretary to invalid or aged gentleman.—
3377.
Young lady (Q’land) wants position as governess
or companion. Music, nursing, used to station life.
Refs.—34o7.
Ex-civil servant (65), Sydney, no pension, very
active, , used to country, wants responsible job.—
2493.
Certificated mine manager, 30 years’ exp., wants
VlOOO to finance reopening of goldmine.—346o.
Englishman (26) wants employment, New Guinea
or Islands. Something adventurous or unusual pre-
ferred.—34Bs.
Young governess (S.A.) seeks position, or will
teach by correspondence. Refs.—346B.
Architect, ex-captain A.1.F., wants job, secretarial,
architectural or journalistic.-—3474.
Governess, exp., seeks position, station or country
home; will assist house duties or sewing. Refs
3483.
To buy “Logarithms of Spherical Trigonometry,”
Raphael’s “Tables of Houses” for latitudes from
the Equator to 50deg. north, and Raphael’s
“Ephemeris” for 1931 and 1932. —3452.
To buy military badges issued to ex-service men
and others, also books, articles, pictures, etc., deal-
ing with French and Spanish Foreign Legions.—
3413.
To buy Dr. Roth’s book on the Queensland abos. —
3414.
To buy,- second-hand, Wheatley’s “Pepy’s Diary”
and “Pepystanee.”—34BB.
Words of verse entitled . “Adam Did Not Fall.”—
3478.
W ords of verse about Murphy’s brindle cow that
ran in a steeplechase.—3444.
Information Sought.
-■ Can the Taxation Department legally
Tine a person unable to pay income tax be-
muse his money is locked up in the N.S.W
Covt. Savings Bank? (2) If so, would the
taxpayer have a remedy at law or in equity
agamst the, bank or its successor, or against
the Government, which guaranteed the bank?
_ (l).^Yes, -blit it is improbable it would
do shut th(‘ facts were placed before it; time
would be,allowed. (2) Unless you have the
purse of Fortunatus, don’t try it.
I am attorney for a friend abroad, and
have been operating on a trust account in
Die, N.S.W. G'.S.B. to pay instalments on a
block of land which in 1924 she contracted
to buy. Now I cannot draw from that
account. Does the N.S.W. Moratorium Act
afford protection? If so, to what extent?—
OOg4. '
It covers an agreement whereby security
tor the payment of money has been granted
over any land. Here no security appears to
have been given, and the Act does not apply.
If. you saw the G. S. Bank authorities they
might release sufficient money for the pur-
pose. .
a fdot that grains of wheat found in
oil W-year-old Egyptian pyramids have ger-
minated when planted?—S3 S 3.
The statement has been frequently
denied by Egyptologists. What has happened
is that grains of fresh wheat have found
their way into packing-cases containing
mummies.
(I), Where is the Sargasso Sea? (2)
arc other seas in which seaweed is as
truck? (o) Who discovered it? (4 \ Is it
true, ships are held fast by the sea-
Xt'CCil . — _ oOo2,
~ (\) If hot really a sea, but a tract of
the North Atlantic Ocean, bounded approxi-
ma i e iMvj * v ail( l 30deg. north and 38deg.
and budeg. west. Its extent varies accord-
ing to winds and ocean currents. (2) There
are a similar mass of floating weed in the
Pacific, north of Hawaii Islands, between
4odeg. north and 150 deg. and
ISOdeg. west, and smaller tracts s.e. of M.L.
and_ along a belt of the Southern Ocean ex-
tending from the Falkland Islands, south of
Africa and south-west of Australia. (3)
Columbus. (4) Not permanently. Columbus
was hung up in the Sargasso for a fortnight.
Sir John Murray’s expedition in 1910 found
the surface covered with weed only in
patches, not continuously.
TIL Qualifications for a position in the
Vic. Forestry Department? (2) Any vacan-
cies? (3) Prospects of advancement? —33l6.
(1) Field officers are recruited from
youths attending, the forestry school at
C res wick, who gain admission through com-
petitive exam, of about leaving-certificate
standard. (2) Four admitted this year out
of 71 applicants. (3) Start at £156: pro-
motion afterwards by merit and exam.
Can a husband and wife, both British sub-
jects, visitors to the U.S.A. and residents
at Reno for about six weeks, be divorced?
Would such a divorce hold good and be recog-
nised as valid under British law if the
couple returned to live in, say, Australia?
—3346.
U.S.A. law applies to American citizens
with a permanent domicile in the States.
The permanent domicile of the parties in the
case you cite seems to be Australia. An
Australian Court, under international law,
recognises a foreign : divorce only if pro-
nounced by the Court of domicile.
In a conscript country , if a man refuses
to obey orders and icon't go into the firing-
line can he be shot? —.‘l3o6.
In most conscript countries there is a
death penalty for desertion or refusal to
obey orders in action.
/ am, told that Castrol motor oils will not
mix with the products of other oil manufac-
turers —that if one of the other oils is
already in the crankcase of a can' it will not
combine or mix, and hence will upset the
lubrication. Is this a fact? —3285.
The Australian branch of Wakefield and
Co. states that every grade will mix with
any other company’s oil on the market, with
the exception of “Castrol R,” which is a
special racing oil, not generally stocked by
the garage trade, and only called for on
special occasions.
A gives B a lien over a trade-marlc in
consideration for money, and also gives C
a lien over the same trade-mark for money
lent unknown to B. Who has prior rights?
—3338.
If A assigned exclusive rights to B in
this use of the trade-mark for a valuable
consideration he cannot assign the same
rights to C. Both B and C have grounds
for action.
(I) Is the correspondence method of
teaching dressmaking successful? (2)
Which is the best school? (3) Could design-
ing be learned? (4) Is there a demand for
designers? Where do costumiers, news-
papers and fashion journals get their
/]p m* n/fi o*p OQfiK
(1) Yes. (2) Sydney Technical College
offers an excellent course. (3) Yes. (4)
A limited demand. In some cases a designer
is employed. In other cases, designs are
obtained from outside designers or from a
paper-pattern service.
(1) What study is necessary to become
a wireless operator on a ship? (2) Cost,
time and where course can be undertaken?
(3) What chance of getting a position? —
3320.
(1) You should take a marine-operator’s
course. Total duration i.s about 18 months,
but the student attends the school for the
last few months only, the early period being
by correspondence. The student must pass
the P.M.G.’s examination before he is eli-
gible for a position. (2) £5O. Marconi
School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney. (3) The school assists successful stu-
dents to obtain positions, and provides
operators for almost all Australian ships.
(1) What does The Bulletin advocate
to take the place of pre-selection? (2) What
is proportional representation? —329B.
(1) An open go. (2) A system of elec-
tion designed to prevent any candidate being
returned by a minority of the votes cast,
and at the same time to ensure that minori-
ties in the community shall be represented
to the extent to which their numerical
strength entitles them. It is sought to
achieve this by a system of large electorates,
each returning five or six members, and by
the principle of the preferential transferable
vote. The voter marks the candidates in
the order of his preference. If the candidate
he marked 1 is not well enough supported
to be elected, the vote passes to No. 2, and
so on.
(1) What is the purpose of the Common-
wealth Science and Industry Endowment
c ijL_(2) Where can I get full particulars?
OO ( O.
(1) The Act establishes a fund of £lOO.OOO,
the income from which is to be used to pro-
vide assistance to persons engaged in scien-
tific research, and to train students in
research. Bequests may be made to’ the
fund, which is controlled by three Common-
wealth nominees on the Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research. In accord-
ance with the Act ai’rangements have been
made to send a number of qualified graduates
abroad for training in various fields of work.
(2) From the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, Melbourne.
Am thinking of doing business in Canada
with Australian goods upon which there is a
preferential duty. What comes under that
heading? —339o.
Beeswax, butter, brandy, champagne,
cheese, currants, eggs, eucalyptus oil, fruits
(dried, fresh and pulped), fruits in cans,
glue, honey, lard, meat (fresh and canned),
onions, raisins, sugar, tallow, vegetable in
tins, and wine.
(1) Who first advocated the payment of a
basic wage in Australia? (2) When and by
whom was the first basic wage declared?—
3250.
The principle was propounded in 1890 by
Samuel Griffith, Premier of Queensland and
enunciated in the N.S.W. Arbitration Court
in somewhat similar terms by Justice Heydon
in 1905. The first.basic wage was declared in
1907 by Justice Higgins, President of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, and is
popularly known as the “Harvester Judg-
ment” on account of its having been deter-
mined in connection with H’. Y. McKay’s
Sunshine Harvester works. The rate of
wage declared in this case was 7s per dav
or £2 2s. per week for Melbourne, the amount
being considered reasonable for “a family of
about five.”
Is the bombax-tree identical with the
tree known in India as the Malabar nib-
cotton-tree? What arc its uses?— 32sB.
\es. The young roots have astringent pro-
perties. The wood is used for packing-cases
and lining wells. In Burma the trunk is
often hollowed out for canoes. The silkv
cotton, though pretty, is not suitable for
spinning, but i S largely used in upholstery
for stiffening cushions, etc. A kind of quilt
or thick cloth is made from it in Assam.
What course of study would be helpful
to a quarry laborer who wishes to become
acquainted with all technical aspects of
quarry work and building stones? —272B.
Read Greenwell and Elsden’s “Practical
Stone Quarrying,” Du Pont’s “Blasters’
Handbook,” Hatch and Wells’s “Textbook
of Petrology,” Sussmilch’s “Determination
of Rocks” and bulletins issued by the TJ.S.A.
Bureau of Mines on quarrying and the Sulli-
van Machinery ICO. on drills.
(1) The “ SM. Hei'ald” states that 66
shillings are coined from an ounce of silver,
which is worth at present Is. Id. per ounce.
Isn’t there a big strain of fiduciary issue m
the bob at that rate? (2) How much of a
shilling is fine silver, and has the coin at
any time contained a shilling’s worth? —343s.
n (1) It isn’t as bad as that. For “ounce
of silver” read “one pound Troy of standard
silver, ' which makes the metallic content of
the coin worth 2.36 d. As silver is not legal
tender for payment of amounts in excess of
£2 the silver coinage does not seriously in-
flate the currency. (2) Standard silver is
one-half fine silver and one-lialf alloy. It
used to be 37-40ths fine. The nearest the
shilling got to being worth its face value in
recent years was in 1920, under the old
standard, when the fine silver content was
worth 10.35 d. on the average for the year.
How to make a gelatine pad which will
print off several copies of a circular? —2B72.
Soak 2oz. gelatine in cold water till jellied.
Then heat in an earthenware vessel till
liquid, and stir in 6oz. glycerine, pi’eviously
warmed. Pour into a shallow photographic
dish a little larger than the size of paper to
be used. Skim any air bubbles off the top,
and leave for 24 hours. The matter to be
duplicated is written with hektograph ink
on glazed paper. As soon as the ink has
set the sheet is pressed firmly into contact
with the jelly and left for five minutes ; then
peeled off, beginning at one corner. Copies
are taken by applying sheets of blank paper
in turn and smoothing them down by gentle
rubbing. The ink can be sponged off the
pad with cold water.
Method of restoring black typewriter
ribbons which are printing faintly?— 3344.
Aftply with a toothbrush a dressing made
by dissolving of aniline black in 15oz.
of absolute alcohol and adding 15oz. of con-
centrated glycerine.
What was the capital cost of the Kerang-
Stony Crossing line (Pic.) and what lias
been the annual loss since it was opened for
traffic, including interest and working
exp enses ? —3224.
Capital cost, including rolling stock, as at
February 28, 1930, Kerang to Murrabit,
£120,907; Murrabit to Stony Crossing,
£245,128. Loss for year ended February 28,
1930, after paying working expenses and
interest charges, Kerang to Murrabit, £6348;
Murrabit to Stony Crossing, £15,789.
(1) Proper time to transplant waratahs
and most suitable position and soil? (2)
When to plant seed and method of planting?
—3325.
(1) Waratahs are difficult to trans-
plant, especially when taken from the bush.
Get the whole of the roots; May to Sep-
tember is the best time. They like a
fairly light soil and should be grown in a
position not too cold or wet and with slight
shade. (2) Sow as soon as you can
after ripening. The seed should germinate
in about two weeks. Sow in pots or pans
filled with ash grit, not too coarse and with
all the dust out, with a little coarse sand
mixed through. Slightly cover the seed
after sowing; after it has germinated, allow
the plants to remain in the pots or pans
until they begin to show signs of hard-
ening and starvation, then put into small
pots. Care should be taken in the water-
ing of the plants, as they are very easily
damped off.
I have a Sims-Hoff starting and lighting
unit wound for 12-14 volts. Could it be
rewound to run as a h-li.p. induction motor,
off a.c., or would it be preferable to use a
step down trans former ?. —3408.
Can’t, be done. The greater part of the
energy would be expended in generating heat
in the field magnet, which is not laminated.
Commercial motors of this type contain a
mechanism which short-circuits the commu-
tator when the correct speed has been
attained, thus converting an ordinary motor
into an induction motor.
What is the difference between a branch
and an agency of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank? —3lol.
Branch: Accounts kept here, including
those of agencies within territory of branch.
Withdrawals allowed on demand up to full
amount deposited. Conducted by officers of
Commonwealth Savings Bank. Agency : Con-
ducted by P.M.G.’s Department, under super-
vision of bank. Keeps no books. Only £lO
allowed to be withdrawn on demand, and
then only on identification.
(1) Must a husband produce a letter from
his wife giving her consent to his departure
abroad before the Customs Department will
issue a passport? (2) If the wife refuses to
consent , what course should the husband take
to obtain a passport? (3) What must a man
legally separated from his wife do to obtain
a passport? —333s.
(1) Yes. (2) The department requires to
he satisfied that proper provision is made
for maintenance. (3) He should lodge an
application stating terms of separation. Each
case is considered on its merits.
(1) When did Cook land at Botany Bay
(a) according to his logbook; '(b) according
to correct reckoning? (2) On the same
basis, when did he land on Possession Island?
(3) When did he take possession of New
South Wales?— 2799.
(1) According to the logbook, April 29.
1770, which would be the afternoon of April
28, civil time, because the nautical time
began at noon and was 12 hours ahead of
the civil day. But after crossing the 180t.h
meridian from east to west he did not cor-
rect his time by putting forward the date one
day until he reached Java, after he left the
Australian coast, so his reckoning was out by
one day. Thus the logbook should have read :
April 30 (nautical time), April 29 (civil
time). (2) August 22, 1770 (corrected
date). (3) Same occasion and date.
Does Anybody Know?
Best method of removing lichen from a
slate r00f?—3489.
Brief Answers.
G.W.: Your capital is not sufficient.
Advise you to go for a farm on shares, building up
your funds without risk... .W.V.K.: £l5O for a
forefinger of either hand and £ll2 10s. for any
other finger, subject to deduction of any weekly com-
pensation paid... .H.G.R.: Solder won’t stick on
rust. File the rust off along the joins and make sure
your iron is clean. Fluxite is a convenient flux for an
amateur... . W.P.8.T.: Book is of no commercial value.
. ...A.S.W.: Know of no method save preservation,
which is costly... .D.M.: Motion pictures were first
shown publicly in Sydney at the Tivoli Theatre on Sept.
19, 1896. Can’t say definitely whether any Boer War
films were exhibited in Sydney. A man named Godfrey
displayed some in M.L J.A.H.: Get in touch with
Speakers (A’sia), Ltd., 70 Clarence-street, Sydney.
. ...C.C.; If the further advance was a separate
transaction the lender was within his rights. We
know nothing against the individual in question
W.E.C: (1) A glider costs about £76. (2), (3) and
(5) Get in touch with the Gliding Club of N.S.W.
(4) Aircraft Engineers’ Supply Co., Aerodrome, Para-
field (S.A.), or Aircraft Manufacturing and Supply Co.,
Box 151, Geelong <Vic.) ... .F.E.C.: (1) The mortga-
gor cannot sell, but if he fails to meet his indebted-
ness the first mortgagee may do so, or, in the event
of purchase price being insufficient to cover, he may
take the property in satisfaction. Any balance to
credit on sale is available for the second mortgagee.
(2) A caveat will protect the second mortgagee to
the extent that any dealing with the title put through
the titles office, before registration, will be notified
to him and he may take steps to protect his interests.
Lodge it at Titles Office, Queen-street, Melbourne ; 10s.
... .W.G.D.: (1) You may sue for the damage in the •
Small Debts Court. (2) The, keeping of pigs in any
place within 40 yards of a street or public place is
punishable by a fine of £2 in N.S.W. Further, the
Local Government authorities may enforce require-
ments with regard to healtli and cleanliness. Con-
sult the nearest inspector of nuisances... .A. 8.:
Weininger’s theories concerning sex were presented
without any attempt at proof, and were not accepted
seriously by the scientific world. Don’t know why
he committed suicide... .W.8.K.: Apply to shipping
cos M.L.: Call at the Registrar-General’s Dept.,
Lands Titles, Queen-street, Melbourne. Furnish full
particulars and ask for instructions... .A.K.: (1) and
(2) N 0... .E.W.D.: Let us know what kind of skins
you wish to tan. Processes vary for the skins of
different animals... .C.A.H.: (1) The hour angles of
the dial must be correctly graduated for the latitude
of Latrobe. (2) The dial must be set perfectly level
with the 12 o’clock hour circle on the meridian of
Latrobe. (3) The style must point to the South Pole.
D.N.M.L.: Hadlington’s “Poultry Farming in
N.S.W.,’’ obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney.
4s. 6d. (post free)..... Mayfield: Such relief is issued
in cases of distress. On the information supplied you
would not be entitled to relief... .L.F.: Try the
“Australian Journal,” 350 Swanston-street, Melb
L.C.C.: See R. Owen’s “Fossil Mammals of Australia”
(1876), and “Fossil Remains of Extinct Mammals
of Australia” (1877). There is an article in the
“Australian Encyclopaedia”... .A.W.K.: A cord of
wood is 128 cubic feet. Weight varies according to
the class of timber... .M.R.: Not unless you are the
inventor, or have some legal right to patent the thing.
. ...11.A.J;: (1) Membership is open to British sub-
jects and citizens of the U.S.A., men and women
alike. (2) £1 Is. p.a. (3) From the secretary at
Frazer House, 42 Bridge-street, Sydney K.S.: (1)
If you are a British subject you won’t need a pass-
port to travel to M.L. (2) You will have to get a
clearance from the income-tax authorities... .W.A.8.:
Yes; in some cases a synchronising gear safeguards
the propeller blades against injury... .F.S.P.: All
are abo. words. Wengellabah means “firewood scarce” ;
noamurra, “man and wife”; and mercadool, “place
of the small 0ak”....L.L.: Typed copy is preferred,
but no objection is taken to legible handwriting....
N.R.W.: You are liable to pay unemployment relief
tax in N.S.W J.F.C.: Unemployment relief tax
should be collected on the total amount paid to the
pea-pickers... .M.A.E.: In 1929 America’s imports
totalled 4,400,126,019 dol. and exports 5,241,262,276
dol J.0.D.: Sea prawns occur in large numbers
during the winter months in the Mary, Burnett and
several other tidal rivers in Q’land, but there is no
data regarding their habits... .M.M.: (1) By rail
from Fremantle, second-class fare £2 16s. 6d. (2)
W.A. Mines Dept, has no knowledge of such a lease.
. ...D.F.S.: Major D. V. Blake, Headquarters Field
Troops, Keswick Barracks, Adelaide, S.A. ; Capt. E.
J. Jones, Shell Oil Co., Melbourne; Wing-Commander
L. J. Wackett, Cockatoo Island, Sydney... .T.E.8.:
(1) In the event of your death both policies 'would
be dutiable under the Vic. Administration and Pro-
bate Act 1928. (2) Inadvisable, as the rate of duty
payable on property going from the wife to the hus-
band is much higher than that on property going
from the husband to the wife. Should the wife die
first, probate duty would be payable in her estate
on the surrender values of the policies... .Winter: K.
Pribil, Box 368655, G.P.0., Sydney, buys any quan-
tity of carpet-snake skins and pays up to Is. per foot,
according to size and condition. (2) Snakes are not
protected... .R. 11.: An occupation permittee Cannot
compel an adjoining permittee to erect half the
dividing fence or claim half costs... .M.M.: Write Govt.
Astronomer,! Sydney Observatory.... A.D:: Get in touch
with the Stelos Re-knit Co., 114 Hunter-street, Sydney.
.... J.W.H.: (1) The amount of N.S.W. unemployment
relief tax payable on wages of 255. per week with
board and lodging is 2s. per week. (2) From Jan. 1,
1931.... J.J.D.: In so far as the Explosives Dept, is
concerned, there are no taxes. If on production more
than 16gal. be stored within a city or town, or
lOOgal. outside town boundaries, accommodation must
be provided in terms of the Inflammable Liquid Act.
It would be advisable for you to call at the Explo-
sives Dept. (Lands Building, Bridge-street, Sydney).
. ...A.H.: Aircrafts of Australia, Ltd., Parbury-lane,
off Eagle-street, Brisbane... .R.A.H.: Cannot say ; it
has been tried often with varying results.... K.D.:
James Carey, the informer in the Phoenix Park mur-
ders, embarked for S. Africa in July, 1883, and was
murdered on board ship by Patrick O’Donnell, who
was brought to England, convicted, and hanged on
Dec. 17, 1883... .R.W.H.: “Banking and Exchange,”
by Sykes; “Economics for the Lay Reader,” by
Clay ; “Money and Its Relation to Prices,” by Price.
.... J.S.T.: The name “Cousin Jonathan” for America
is attributed to Washington’s reliance for advice and
support on Jonathan Trumbull, Governor of Con-
necticut, whom he termed the “first of the patriots.”
. ...W.F.C.: Cane-cutting usually begins in Q’land
about the first week in June and continues until the
end of the year... . G.M.: Riemer and Tebbutt’s
“Agency Law and Principles” and Zillman’s “Real
Estate Accounts”.... S.P.P.: The Azores and Madeira
are regarded, not as colonies, but as part of conti-
nental Portugal. There are British Consuls at St.
Michael’s, in the Azores, and at Funchal, in Madeira.
. ...P.W.: It costs approximately £230 p.a. to send
a boy to Eton, £216 p.a. to Harrow, £2OO p.a. to
Rugby and Winchester, and £175 p.a. to Charter-
house... .P.D.: The first Australian war gratuities
were made available about the beginning of June,
1920. The total paid to June 30, 1929, was
£27,483,672 F.M.: (1) No figures published. (2)
See Alwood’s “Study in Cider-making,” Hogg and
Ball’s “Apple and Pear as Vintage Fruits,” and
Lloyd’s “Reports on Cider-making at Butleigh”....
(Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corolla station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, has the ivild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry, the mailman, Suddenly the
horses take fright and bolt; Harry is
thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable crash into the
creek-bed below by the decisive action
of Craig, who, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a hoy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
tries, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious.
CHAPTER 11.
THE mind of William Kenneth Craig
was sorely troubled. That he had
saved the coach and most of the team
from a certain pile-up in the creek-bed
affected him not in the least —though it
was hell having to shoot these horses. That
he had saved the sole passenger from prob-
able death, certainly from a bad smash-up,
did not occur to him at all.
He tilted the water-bag again and let a
thin stream run on the forehead of the
recumbent figure, then a little down the
throat.
A pair of startled eyes opened, gazed
wildly round, then rested uncomprehend-
ingly on the grimy face above.
“Feeling better?”
The sound of the voice brought remem-
brance, and the girl tried to raise herself.
“Steady on! Take it easy!” He filled a
battered enamel mug from the water-bag
and slipped an arm under her shoulders so
that her head with the released brown
tresses rested in the crook of his arm.
“Drink this—steady.” He held the cup
to the wan lips, and her hand searching
for the cup closed tightly over his. A dis-
jointed, stumbling apology came to her
above the buzzing in her head. The girl
was too weak to see the ludicrous side of
the situation. The man whose terse orders
she had unquestidningly obeyed a few
minutes ago was now meekly saying he was
sorry for something! But for what? For
saving her life?
“Sorry I had to pull you about. I couldn’t
get your neck loose. Matter of fact, I—er—
thought you were a man.” The level grey
eyes dropped from hers.
Margaret’s wandering eyes rested a
moment on her dusty attire; then a hand
moved instinctively to her disordered neck.
In a country where white women are few
and treated with a respect akin to rever-
ence, he had ramped about in the presence
of one as if he were yarding a mob of
scrubbers!
Why the hell couldn’t she dress like a
woman? He couldn’t be expected to know!
Anyhow, the damage was done and the
sooner he cleared out the better. Thank
God, the country was big enough to avoid
a future meeting!
“I—l think I’ll get up!” The girl stirred
a little.
His arm remained round her, her head
resting on his shoulder as she rose slowly
to her feet. The earth still swam dizzily
round. The dust-grimed face was close and
seemed quite familiar now, and other things
were taking shape; but, somehow, she felt
safe and peaceful under the quiet eyes, with
the arm like steel supporting her.
Suddenly remembrance struck her and
she faced him quickly. “What about Harry,
the coachdriver? He may be killed!”
He was looking steadily up the road.
“Jerry’s on his way now; we’ll know in a
minute!”
The black horse pulled up sharply at their
feet, Jerry’s eyes opening wide at the
spectacle of his boss holding a woman in
his arms—a woman dressed like a man!
Was he going to take this white woman
for his gin?
But, though at the thought he felt highly
aggrieved at the woman, he was too full
of news to sulk, and without waiting to be
questioned he launched into his story.
To the girl his speech was quite unin-
telligible, but. as he illustrated everything
in pantomime she was not surprised when
Ken turned to her.
“Harry’s hurt his shoulder and back,” he
said. “If you’ll wait here, I’ll ride up and
see him.” He glanced at the westering sun.
“You’ll have to camp about here to-night,
I’m afraid, so when you feel fit we’ll give
vou a hand to get your luggage out.”
Almost reluctantly he disengaged his arm,
eyeing her critically as she grasped at the
wheel for support.
Abruptly he turned to the big bay, threw
the reins over its head and slipped quickly
into the saddle.
The reaction was still on her as she
watched the pair cantering up the road.
Gratefully she slid down to the dusty road,
leaning her head against the spokes of the
wheel, and trying to ignore the buzzing
millions of flies clouding round the dead
mare at. her back.
So this was the wonderful Ken! the
drunkard! (He didn’t look so vei-y de-
praved.) The woman-hater! (She flushed
and her heart quickened at the remem-
brance of that strong arm round her.) Well,
he might be all these things—and more
(his language was in her mind now), but
thank heavens he came when he did!
She walked out to meet them as they
cantered back leading spare horses.
To the question in her eyes Ken spoke
briefly. “Harry got a nasty bump on the
shoulder —collar-bone broken, I think —and
his back’s bruised, and he’s pretty stiff.”
They pulled her belongings from the
coach, and strapped them deftly on the
pack-saddle.
She noticed that Ken scarcely looked at
her, and, when he had adjusted the stirrup-
leathers, stood waiting at the horse’s head.
“We’ll camp back near Harry,” he said
briefly. “Are you ready?” She swung
stiffly into the big stock-saddle, and
settled herself behind the kneepads. With-
out a word he swung to his saddle and the
party moved off.
They found the old driver stretched out
on Ken’s blankets under the sparse shade of
a gidya. He raised his head painfully at
their approach, and ceased gnawing at the
grizzled moustache.
Margaret ran across and knelt by his side.
“Oh, Harry, I’m sorry!” Her clear voice
was low with compassion. “Let me have
a look at your shoulder!”
“Thanks, Miss Kennedy. Glad to see
you’re all right.” Harry’s eyes rested thank-
fully on the girl. “Ken fixed me up and
reckons I’ve got to stay here. The way he’s
got me tied up I’ve got Buckley’s chance
of doin’ anything else!”
Her practised eyes approved the first-aid
measures —a folded shirt high in the armpit,
the leather surcingle round arm and body,
drawing the shoulder out straight. She
opened the faded shirt at the neck and felt
along the collar-bone.
His thin lips tightened a shade with the
pain, but his eyes never left her face and
noted her satisfaction as she looked up.
“I’m afraid I’m rather late! But I
couldn’t hope to improve on that!”
She was filled with a sense of respect for
this man with the wild reputation, who had
appeared from nowhere, had accomplished
superhuman deeds as if they were part of the
day’s work, and, what was more, had forced
her to join him in doing them—and now his
sole aim in life seemed to be to avoid her.
She had not even thanked him yet! Well,
that could wait—there was lots to be done
in the meantime. The pack-horse had been
unloaded, and a fire was licking at the
gidya twigs.
After a few words to Harry, Ken rode
back towards the coach, Jerry following
bareback on the horse just relieved of the
pack-saddle.
The girl looked round for something to
do, almost wishing that Ken had left her
some instructions.
She walked over to the prostrate Harry.
“Is there anything I can do, Harry? I
don’t know where to start.”
“Sit down and have a spell, Miss. Ken’s
gone up to drag the dead horses off the
road, and try to clear the track. He tells
me the old coach will take some fixing
God! It was lucky he came along then!”
he finished fervently.
After a pause she told him all that had
happened. The old man’s eyes kindled as
he listened. “Shot the near leader, did
he? God knows how he got that team
loose—you helped, eh? And he shot old
Kate —bad luck! Don’t mind that damn
chestnut brumby—l should have shot him
meself!” For a while he lay silent. Then
he turned to face the girl, and looking her
squarely in the eyes, spoke slowly, almost
sadly.
“Look here, Miss. I’m sore at that fellow
for settling half my team, but if he hadn’t”
—the voice grew fierce—“about three
chains further down that road bends sudden
to the left, and he knew it! If he hadn’t
done as he did, the whole damn show would
have gone straight to Hell, and you with
it—sorry, Miss. I didn’t mean to scare
you, but it gave me particular hell lying
back here like a broken-backed snake listen-
ing for the crash! That them coming
back?”
His trained ears near the ground had
caught the beat of horses’ feet, and Mar-
garet rose to greet the quiet pair returning
from their unpleasant task.
Night had fallen, and the light of the
half-moon filtered through the trees, throw-
ing strange shadows on the broken ground.
The horses had long been taken away by
Jerry to distant water and grass, and now
he sat apart at the light of a small fire,
insignificant beside the leaping flames of
their camp-fire, eating his solitary meal of
tea, damper, beef and jam, cut for him by
Ken. Margaret, feeling rested and satisfied
after her meal, nodded drowsily, and glanced
occasionally at the two men conversing in
low tones on the opposite side of the fire.
She felt just a shade annoyed at being left
out of the conversation. They were prob-
ably discussing ways and means; but, still,
why had Ken placed her rugs on that side
of the fire? This was evidently a further-
ance of his policy of avoiding her.
He was sitting with his hat off, and the
firelight played over the crisp hair of that
indeterminate shade that seems sometimes
dark, sometimes fair, and showed the girl a
wide forehead overhanging the wide-spaced
grey eyes; but the rest of the face puzzled
the onlooker. The nose was straight and
ordinary, but the mouth and chin, while
neither weak nor indecisive, seemed to
indicate a careless, easy-going nature, abso-
lutely foreign to the dominant being who
had given curt orders that made you feel
you had to obey them at all costs. Had
she not seen the man as he appeared at the
smash she would have called it a dis-
appointing face—the top half denoting
power, the lower half denying it. Evidently
a queer mixture, this man! His broad face,
devoid of all superfluous flesh, the result
of plain food and hard living, looked almost
gaunt at certain angles, and a set of strong,
even teeth gripped a pipe which he re-
moved at intervals to point, or to accen-
tuate something he was saying.
Presently the girl rose and moved towards
her little tent, deftly pitched by the two
men on a plaited greenhide rope stretched
between two trees.
Her stretcher had been left on the coach,
but she found a springy pile of gidya boughs
on the ground, and on those she thankfully
spread her rugs. Her preparations com-
pleted, she stood quite still at the tent-flap
for a minute, her eyes on the two men, then
called softly:
“Good night, Harry! Good night, Ke—
Mr. Craig!”
“G’ night, Miss. Have a good sleep,”
from Harry.
“G’ night, Miss” The other man
had risen, and was eyeing Harry question-
ingly, pipe removed.
“Kennedy,” she prompted smilingly, as
she took the belated introduction out of
Harry’s hands.
“Good night, Miss Kennedy!”
CHAPTER 111.
The crisp morning air was like wane. In
the east the false dawn glimmered behind
the hills. But the girl had never seen such
stars as still sparkled and danced in their
fathomless background of magic darkness.
The rattle of wheels had roused her from
a troubled sleep. As she dressed hastily,
someone kicked together the butts around
the fire and threw on more wood; but
when she slipped out to its cheery warmth
only Harry was to be seen.
She glanced sharply towards the dim out-
line of the fidgeting horses. “Whose buggy
is that?”
“Buckboard,” he corrected. “George
Leason’s! Ken went on to his place—’bout
ten miles from here. George is following
with his spring cart to take the heavy stuff
.—an’ me. I don’t fancy being shook about
in that!” He waved a hand at the flimsy
vehicle.
She stared uncomprehendingly. “Do you
mean that Ken—Mr. Craig—hag been out
all night while we were sleeping.
“Right!” was the laconic reply, and the
girl turned slowly away.
Still, she had rebelled at leaving Harry
behind; but the grizzled old driver had
dismissed her objections, and his farewell
was typical of the man.
“S’long, Miss Kennedy! You can’t go
wrong with Ken! I’m sorry we got smashed
up, but I’d sooner have had you with me
than a lot of men I know!”
They were on the last stage of the journey
now—sixty miles still separated them from
Carinda, where Peggy was awaiting her.
Ken edged the frightened horses carefully
past the wrecked coach and a wave of
nausea swept over the girl as she glimpsed
all that the dingoes had left of the brown
mare below the roadway.
The heavily laden buckboard rattled
westward at a brisk pace. Horses were
changed frequently and without loss of
time. The rough road improved slightly
with the mountains behind them, and the
rugged scenery had changed to a wide-
spreading panorama of dull-olive gidya
scrub broken in its monotony by an occa-
sional natural clearing of rank grass.
The man drove steadily, his eyes on the
horses, on the road ahead, or searching the
dim shadows of the gidya clumps—any-
where but in the direction of his passenger.
Margaret, absorbed in her own thoughts,
found the silence welcome for a while, but
as the miles moved past, the increasing heat,
the dust and the pestering flies roused in
her a faint peevishness that made her long
for Harry’s continuous flow of reminiscences.
Her eyes rested speculatively on the pro-
file of the man at her side. Beyond an
occasional shake of the reins or a gruff
“Git up, you!” to a lagging horse, there
was neither speech nor movement from him.
The girl eyed his pipe vindictively—she
felt it gave the man a mean advantage over
her. Whether the silence was natural on
his part, due to the presence of a woman,
or whether the man felt that his language
of yesterday had cast him beyond the pale,
she could not tell, but she realised that the
first move would have to be on her part.
“His language was pretty awful!” she re-
flected. “Listened to in cold blood, it would
have been horrible. But under the cir-
cumstances it had seemed not only natural,
but fitting.” Her fine lips curled mis-
chievously at the remembrance.
Suddenly she pointed towards a dark
clump of scrub at the roadside.
“Oh, look! Isn’t he a size?”
A dark shape detached itself from the
shadows, hopped a few yards into the open
and stood upright, taller than a man, gazing
inquiringly over a shoulder at the disturbers
of his siesta.
The man nodded quietly: “Old-man wal-
laroo!” . .
The big grey fellow, still suspicious,
allowed them to approach a little closer,
then he bent gracefully forward and a few
flying hops carried him round the clump and
out of sight.
He was gone, but the girl felt a sense ot
relief- the ice was broken at last.
“Don’t you feel tired?” she queried. “I
believe you were up all night.” Her tone
was slightly reproving. .
The man gazed out through the timber,
avoiding her eyes, and his reply was quietly
casual: , ,
“That’s all right! I’ll make up for it
to-night.”
Another long pause; then the man half-
turned towards her, bolding out the reins
invitingly:
“Care to drive for a while?
Margaret assented eagerly. This was
better than sitting still on that uncom-
fortable perch; and, besides, it gave her a
feeling of importance. She felt decidedly
cheerier, and clicked her tongue at the pair
of horses, as the man produced a knife
from a pouch at his belt and proceeded to
clean out the bowl of his pipe.
The girl glanced mischievously sideways:
“Wonderful conversationalists, the men out
here!” ,
Ken’s features remained unmoved, his
attention fixed on some obstruction in the
pipe bowl.
“I used to think the strong, silent man
existed only in fiction, but I’m afraid I was
wrong.” The girl continued nonchalantly:
“What’s the cause of the disease?”
The man tapped the bowl of the pipe on
the brake: “Lack of ideas mostly!”
Margaret’s head shook decisive negation.
“I won’t have that! They have far too
much sense for that excuse to hold!”
A non-committal grunt answered her.
“Maybe! Sense to keep their mouths shut
when they’ve nothing to say.” He filled
his pipe deliberately, and, after puffing
silently a while, surprised the girl by start-
ing of his own volition.
“It is not often you get a mob together
here, except at race meetings—they talk
plenty then,” he added significantly, and
she frowned in remembrance. “The coun-
try has a lot to do with it! It’s a country
of extremes. You’ll notice the people up
here either run to fat or stay thin. It’s the
same with conversation: some folk-women
mostly—are like magpies; ol
a meat-axe will keep them quiet!”
He was quietly getting his own back, and
her smile broadened. The Sphinx was im-
proving.
“The men are mostly scattered —in ones,
or twos, maybe three or four in a camp. It »
better to be on your own, if you can t gel
three or more, than to camp with one mate.
It’s all right when you’re busy, but after a
while you get to know all his little ways,
all of his past that he ever tells (and they
don’t always tell much), till you feel there s
nothing about him you don’t know. , ion
know just what he’s thinking, what he s go-
ing to do, what he’ll sa.y next. And when
he does say or do it you feel mad, becau&e
you know he feels just the same way about
you. You spend your time dodging one
another, and, when you do meet you look
away in case one might say something loi
the other chap will know just what he s
going to say, and that’s fair he 11.... Oh,
beg your pardon!” , . .
“ ‘Hell,’ you were saying. Go on; this is
interesting!” ,
But she had broken the spell and he re-
lapsed again.
“Do you ever feel like murder on these
occasions?” she ventured later. He was
driving again, as the horses were tiring.
“Yes,” he replied cautiously, “you often
do—at first. But after you’ve been at it
for a while you get over it. You get a
sort of second wind with a chap if you can
stick him long enough. That’s why youi!
see a couple of mates —mostly old men
working about together, day in and day
out, and hardly ever speaking a word, inej
know one another’s routine and fall in with
it. One of them will knock off work and
clear off to the camp without a word, but
his mate knows he’s gone to cook suppei
and takes no notice. Boiled down, the
reason seems to be that people here o
more thinking than talking. I suppose
we seem slow to other people. we
only say things we think might be news
to the other chap because we give him
credit for thinking like ourselves, and we
cut out all the frills!”
“I think I get the idea,” she said thought-
fully. She was genuinely interested in his
dissertation, and added smilingly: If people
thought before they spoke it would be the
death of polite conversation anywhere.


Murdoch's
GREAT WINTER
Bargains Galore/
Murdoch’s prices have been heavily
reduced to meet the times—and
NOW comes the great clearance
with further sweeping reductions.
<
V
V
:j
Everything (except
few
proprietary lines)
reduced at least
io%
Many lines
clearing at-HALF PRICE
Murdoch Tailored
Suits to Measure
*3fofr
Formerly *9/6
Wonder value even at usual
price! And now fancy
£3/10/11 for splendid all wool
Worsteds, dressy Tweeds, and
pure Indigo Dye Serges. Latest
of patterns. Tailored to your
measure —
i3/10/ll
Also £6/6/- Suits to Measure
j£4/18/9
These are but three from thousands.
Look here—63/- Men’s Overcoats for
45/9 and 19/6 Men’s Hats for 13/6*
Youths’ 63/- Suits for 51/6, etc., etc.
Send for the big Bargain Bulletin—
FREE! iWill save you pounds.
Patterns
Are
Free
Cut out and
send this
Coupon
Desk R, , Murdoch’s Ltd.,
Box 38757 T, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly forward me, without obligation, complete
range of patterns of your Suiting Sale Specials.
Name
Address
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
She mused on, then queried, haltingly:
“How about a man and a woman living
alone out here—would they be affected
the same way?”
He seemed to stiffen suddenly and his
answer came slowly: “It would all depend
on the man—and on the woman —and on
one other thing.”
“You mean?”
“Understanding. Love, if you like!”
“Some men get on better than others,
and you can generally put it down to —
understanding. Women are different. I
think the right man and the right woman
could live apart from the world for ever.
But if they were without that 'other thing’ ”
—he drew a long breath—“all the devils in
Hell couldn’t find a greater punishment.”
She stared at him, amazed at his out-
burst, % and at the'tumultuous feelings in her
breast she realised what a fool she had
been to ask such a question.
Thereafter they were silent—she busy
with her thoughts, looking anywhere but at
the silent figure alongside, with his jaws
grimly clamped on the dead pipe and eyes
staring fixedly at some point just over the
horizon.
The sun was dipping low on the horizon
when Billy Smith, the wizened, diminutive
horseboy, steadied the slashing pair of greys
and pointed to a vague, white reflection
above the distant timber:
“There she is!”
The two girls on the seat beside him
broke off an animated conversation to stare
in the direction of the pointing whip.
“Do you see it, Margaret? Home, at
last!”
Margaret, slim and cool in a shady hat
and light frock—she had discarded her male
attire on arrival at Carinda the night be-
fore—gazed earnestly at the shimmering
reflection of the still-hidden white buildings,
and a feeling of thankfulness held her silent.
The end of the long journey in sight at last!
She turned to the plump, vivacious girl
at her side with a tired, happy smile: “It’s
a long way to come for a week-end, Peggy!”
The blue eyes sparkled merrily. “That’s
a word you’ll never hear in this country,
Margaret! Nobody worries about the day
or the date—except mail days.” She leaned
forward and addressed the cheerful, grinning
driver: “Come on, Billy! Shake up these
crocks of yours, or we won’t be home till
breakfast!”
The greys knew they were nearly home
and stretched out in a long mile-eating
stride.
Margaret felt really tired; since her meet-
ing with Peggy Donaldson at Carinda the
previous evening, it seemed they had done
nothing but talk. At least Peggy had done
most of the talking—she shone there—but
her conversation was an endless stream of
questions that had continued all that day,
across the open, rolling downs between Car-
inda and Corella.
It was almost dark before they reached
the station buildings scattered along the
bank of a huge overshot dam fringed with
tall, shady coolabahs. A windmill showed
up first, then the buggy rattled past the
men’s hut—a long, low stone building—and
pulled up in front of the store. The mail-
bag was handed out and Margaret was in-
troduced to Mr. Heath, the book-keeper,
and Frank Perry, the teamster, a fair giant
of a man, tongue-tied and ill at ease; but
she was too tired to do more than acknow-
ledge their greetings from her awkward
perch.
“Last lap,” chirruped Peggy as they
sailed through a white gateway. They
clambered stiffly to the ground in front of
a rambling stone house with low, wide
verandahs all round.
Peggy shouted “Da-a-ad!” and dived
through a wire-gauzed doorway. Margaret,
following slowly, found her looking down on
the seated figure of a big, broad-shouldered
man with a leonine head of tousled fair
hair and a big moustache. One bandaged
foot rested on a chair in front of him.
“Come and meet Dad,” laughed Peggy,
and she turned sternly on her parent. “And
if you call her anything but Margaret,
you’ll have two of us to deal with.”
Margaret loved the big, breezy man from
the first instant, and, as she took his huge,
outstretched hand, she suddenly bent over
and kissed him.
“Why, you’ve scared the life out of him!”
Peggy laughed, and added merrily, “Look
out he doesn’t get the habit.”
“I’m glad you’ve come, Margaret. It’s
lonely for this bit of mischief here; and
we want you to make this your home for
just as long as you like!”
Her eyes filled at the deep sincerity of
his big voice, but Peggy saved the situation
by dragging her off to her room—a big,
cool room, almost bare-looking on account
of its size. One door opened to Peggy’s
room and another led through thick stone
walls to the verandah.
Margaret sank to the white bed, feeling
strangely weak. She felt she had reached
the end of her journey and the end of her
tether. At last she could relax and forget
the hateful past, in this outpost of the world
where people never never ask stupid
questions.
And she buried her face in the snowy
pillow.
CHAPTER IV.
From the centre of a sea of newspapers
Tom Donaldson threw an occasional glance
at the girl lying quietly back in the big
canvas chair opposite.
Margaret puzzled him not a little, and
the big, bluff cattleman felt mildly anxious.
Peggy had confided a little to him. He was
content with that little—would have been
content without any explanation, in fact.
But he gathered that whatever the trouble
was, it had become so unbearable—so im-
possible—that the girl had been forced to
flee from it. She had accepted a long-
standing invitation and had come to Corella
for sanctuary, and Donaldson was glad of
it. Peggy needed company for one thing,
and few of her southern friends would have
contemplated for a moment the prospect of
a comfortless two-thousand-mile trip to
what, in their eyes, was the end of the
world.
Margaret gazed lazily through half-closed
eyes out over the wide expanse of the dam
and the snowy clouds of white birds, wheel-
ing, swooping and settling noisily in the
big trees.
“What a lot of white cockatoos you have
up here!”
The big cattleman lowered his paper sud-
denly and glared belligerently at the chat-
tering birds swarming in thousands on the
coolabahs.
“These!” His tone was truculent. “Cor-
ellas, we call them. This is the Corella
Dam and the station took its name from
it. But they’re a damn nuisance, all the
same. See these dead trees!” He pointed
to bare white lirfibs protruding like skele-
tons through the dark foliage, and covered
with the snowy birds. “The corellas killed
them! Stripped every leaf off them—and
it’s a crime to kill a shade-tree at a water-
hole. Y’see, Margaret, cattle come in over
miles of open downs—probably haven’t had
a drink for a couple of days or more, if
feed is scarce. They fill themselves full of
water till they can just about stagger up
the bank. If they have a decent shade
handy to cool off in, it leaves them con-
tented—and contented cattle are fat cattle,
and that’s what we’re here to produce. But
if they have to stand in the sun for hours,
or drag themselves a mile to shade when
they’re filled out like barrels, it’s bad busi-
ness. So we talk to those pests with a gun.”
“Still, they look nice,” the girl countered.
“And there seem to be so few birds in this
open country.”
“Maybe,” Donaldson admitted grudgingly.
“There’s galahs—they’re prettier and they
don’t do so much damage. And they’re
useful—galah pie is not too bad! Nature
is fairly hard on us up here, and after a
while you look on things either as useful
or as a straight-out nuisance Wait till
the corellas keep you from getting to sleep
some day!” he chuckled deeply, then added
offhandedly: “You’ll find a shotgun inside
the door—cartridges on the shelf above!
Hullo, who’s this? Oh,) good-day,
Mr. Heath! No, sit still, Margaret! You
two have met, haven’t you?”
The book-keeper bowed towards the girl;
then the two men plunged into a discussion
of the pile of correspondence.
The girl, quietly watching the pair, was
struck by the typical difference in the men.
Donaldson, big, bluff, capable, passing over
little matters as if they did not exist—
a big man in every way. The other, of
medium height, with dark, well-brushed hair
and full, sallow face that seemed pale and
unhealthy in that land of bronzed men; his
dark eyes moved quickly, his speech was
quick and precise and he gave the impres-
sion of being rather annoyed that the older
man should take everything so quietly and
refuse to fuss over the points he raised.
Business over, the talk became general.
Heath was full of questions about the
journey and about Margaret herself, which
somehow raised a feeling of irritation in
the girl. “Did Miss Kennedy come from
Melbourne? Oh, Sydney!” Mr. Heath be-
longed to Melbourne, but he knew a lot
of Sydney people, and seemed to think that
Margaret ought to know them, or know
of them, also.
Donaldson, temporarily out of things,
noted the girl’s distaste at the turn the con-
versation had taken. The tired look was
coming back to her eyes, the line of the
mouth was obstinate, and she had the air
of one acting on the defensive.
He was about to break in on them as
Heath apparently could not read the signs,
when Peggy’s fresh voice called:
“Here’s Uncle Alan!”
(To be continued next week.)
Earthbound.
I have a fear, a foolish dread
Lest when men say “He, too, is dead
And done with all life’s rose and rue,”
The thing they tell should not be true.
May I in death sleep well indeed!
Life long I recked not any creed;
Let me not live as light and air—
A dream that mocks its own despair!
A phantom thing, unseen, unknown,
That evermore must walk alone;
Let me not feel, yet lacking breath,
The spectral solitude of death!
I have so loved the vibrant street
A-quiver with life’s vital beat,
The very grime upon its walls,
That when at last the shadow falls
I would not haunt, e’en though I might,
A deeper darkness in the night,
A shadow on the noontide’s blue,
Life-brilliant ways that once I knew,
Nor glimpse the gleam, so brave, so vain
Of one love-liaunted, misty pane
Ah! star-masked Fate, grant' me one
prayer—
May death know not its own despair’
QUEENSLAND.
J. Holloway.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
“Darcy” Eccles, sometime amateur cham-
pion billiard-player of Australia and still a
keen follower of that game, won the Ivororoit
Hurdle at Williamstown on Saturday with
Kendler. Sons of Kenilworth have done
exceptionally well as jumpers; Iventle and
Mosstrooper eiich captured the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle, while Mosstrooper also
took the G. N. Steeplechase, the Australian
Hurdle (twice) and the Australian Steeple-
chase. Weights for the 1931 Grand Nationals
arc due next Monday. If Kendler is not
overburdened he may be depended on to be
strongly supported, straightout and in
doubles. At three years he ran third to
Henare and Sandhurst in the V.R.C. York
Hurdle, and finished fifth in the G. N. Hurdle
won by Longlands. Kentle did next to no
racing as a four-year-old, but in the spring
of 1929 was successful over the battens at
Caulfield, beating Henare, to whom he subse-
quently was runner-up in the V.R.C. Cup
Hurdle. Put back to service on the flat,
Kendler was fourth in the Australian Cup
of 1930, which was more than Mosstrooper
could do this year. When one remembers that
Eccles’s horse vanquished Prince Viol in a
Moonee Ponds Handicap, it is clear that he
possesses unusual galloping ability for a
jumper. He is not strung up yet. By the
first Saturday in July he ought to be as fit
as a fiddle. Bob Inkson, unapproachable as a
judge of pace, did not unnecessarily expose
him at Williamstown, with the result that
Arcadius appeared to be mowing down
Kendler as they approached the last flight;
however, Inkson’s mount scored handsomely.
Little light was thrown on Grand National
Steeplechase prospects by the cross-country
event at Williamstown. Patriotic, who won,
is not engaged in the big event at Fleming-
ton. He has a doubtful leg. and, apart from
lack of experience over solid fences, might
not stand a severe preparation. T. M. Burke
leased Patriotic to the Caulfield trainer F. G.
Doran. Leading practically all the way, the
son of Patrobas comfortably stalled off a
Gert "Will you referee in the girls*
HOCKEY MATCH BERT ?”
BERT'."Mo,THANKS, »i* NOT AN OPTIMIST
Sert'Whats THATT TO OO WITH THE
QA.ME ?”
Bert'"Evervtkinq. a referee is tj
SUPPOSED to HttOG THE LftST WOPP.
challenge from the consistent Melton Star.
More will be heard of Triton (Sea Prince-
Boiling), the third horse; he may even give
cheek in the Grand National. The dam of
Triton produced a Sydney Cup winner in
The Fortune Hunter; as a yearling Triton
was bought by E. J. Kennon (his present
owner) for lOOOgns. The performance of
George William, the favorite, puzzled his
owner and was too bad to be true. George
William is a “National” aspirant.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap at
Williamstown went to Te Huon and Jaco-
malt. Each carried No. 3 cloth and was
followed home by No. 7 on the card. Te
Huon, a daughter of Tea Tray, hung out
badly in the straight, but managed to reach
the judge in advance of Heliostar, a Great
Star filly, raced by her breeder, H. G. Ray-
mond, of the St. Albans stud at Geelong.
“Guy” Raymond was recently elected to the
V.R.C. committee. Horatius, favorite for
the second division, was beaten into third
place by Jacomalt and Iskander, but the
consensus of. opinion was that Horatius
ought to have won, and when C. B. Kellow
next produces the son of Heroic he may have
to accept an even shorter price than book-
makers were willing to lay when the betting
opened on Saturday.
Lineage, the 1929 Oaks winner, returned
to form by winning the middle-distance Bay
View Handicap. She had the services of
Duncan, and this contributed largely to her
narrow success over Woodchatter and Har-
binger. The finish was very exciting, Mon-
diago and Miss Arrow being on terms in
fourth position. Lineage now is owned by
J. J. Liston, vice-chairman of the W.R.C.
committee, and the fact of being locally
trained made her victory additionally popu-
lar. Highland was unahle to concede Land
of Nod 191 b. in the Beacli Welter (first
division). Melosus, a son of V oorak,
romped home in the next heat, and Green
Wave, last year’s Caulfield Guineas hero,
bad an equally easy win in the Gellibrand
Handicap.
H: * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:- „
Federal Hurdle: Arcadius; next, Dookie.
Commonwealth Steeple: Affirm; next,
Tetcott. , .
* * * *
Flying Handicaps at Moor afield are often
excellent races for McShortodds. _ It was so
on Saturday, when Chemosh, notwithstanding
his indifferent showing in the sprint of the
same name at Randwick, was sent out at
5 to 2 in a field of 18. The Moabite gelding
ran much better than on the previous Satur-
day, but had to strike his colors to Curtius,
a four-year-old black gelding by Satelles (sire
of Crucis) out of an unnamed Bronzino
mare. At Randwick Curtius had measured
strides with Tom Pinch in front of a strong
field for three or four furlongs; this exhi-
bition of pace was nevertheless disregarded,
and he was allowed to go out at 15 to 1,
the tote (old style) paying £6 16s. for 10s.
King Crow (8 to 1) came with a rattle at
the finish, and might have won but for an
early check; Legislator (15.t0 1) ,also, ran
home strongly behind Curtius, Chemosh and
King Crow.
.#••••
Late scratchings weakened the field for
the Moorefield Handicap, Greenbird, Gem-
light and Attar being sent to Newcastle for
the local Cup race. It was a fruitless quest,
the Cup falling to Strength, who has been
very successful since he came from the pony
courses; and Attar and Greenbird might
have been better suited by the Moorefield
track and conditions. However, it is im-
probable that either would have beaten Anti-
oclius (5 to 1), who, ridden in Simpson’s
best style, won very easily from Nolens
Volens and Leisure Hour. It was a good
betting race, and Chrysotta and Soulton
had more support than Antiochus, who is a
five-year-old bay gelding by Demetrius —
Sabadilla, built on massive lines, and useful.
Not one actual favorite dulled the shocks
administered to punters by outsiders —Jocoon
(14 to 1), Tongkol (20 to 1) and Firbolg
(10 to 1), as well as Curtius. Firbolg’s
victory was achieved in the Rockdale Mile;
Roley (6 to 1) gave him a long start in
the straight and was catching him fast when
Firbolg reached the judge’s box —but that
sort of thing is all in the game.
*#* . *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Prospect Handicap: Tom Pinch; next,
Chemosh.
May Handicap: Stately; next, Leisure
Hour.
Casula Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Traymobile.
* * * #
“Hotham”: The coming of the tote in
Victoria has disclosed that the machine or
its equivalent is no stranger to the Cabbage
Garden, though it has been under a cloud for
years. John Wren’s notorious “chalk-up”
tote in Collingwood is, of course, familiar to
many by repute, but the mechanical odds-
layer went back beyond his day. In 1885 a
machine patented by one Schinnerlin was in
operation at Winchelsea races, working on a
10s. basis. One of the winners at that meet-
ing belonged to Bob Sievier, later owner of
the mighty Sceptre, and was ridden by Bob
Ramage, afterwards Carbine’s pilot in the
1890 Melbourne Cup. The machine was
“about the size of a sideboard,” but worked
efficiently.
* * * *
“Durdans”: The English Jockey Club is
gradually losing its conservatism. Recently
the august body condescended to experiment
at Newmarket with an invisible livht beam
to time races. The apparatus projects a
beam of infra-red rays across the course at
the winning post; the first horse home cuts
the beam, which is invisible, and stops the
timing clock. The idea has been in use for
some time on Belgian courses, but this is its
first appearance in Britain.
$
“Solly” Joel, the Kimberley and Jo’burg
mining magnate, whose death in England is
reported, played a conspicuous part on the
English turf during the past generation,
maintaining a big breeding stud, in addi-
tion to being one of the boldest yearling
buyers of his day. He'won many big races,
but never achieved his ambition, the Epsom
Derby. However, he won the “war Derby”
of 1915, run at Newmarket, with the best
horse he ever owned, Pommern. The same
nag had previously collected the Two Thou-
sand for his owner, and finished the season
with the Doncaster St. Leger. This year the
South African had horses entered in several
of the classics, including Khyber Pass for
the Derby. Under English rules these nomi-
nations lapse automatically.
* * * *
“Reformed Gun”: Recent Sydney crimes
have disclosed the existence of a gang who
make it their business to prey on
bookmakers. British racing used to
be the happy hunting : ground of this
evil fraternity, and until vigorous mea-
sures by Scotland Yard a few years
ago broke the back of the gangs, meet-
ings at Sandown Park or other courses close
to London were rather more dangerous to
the punter than going on a lion-shooting
safari. The gangs worked on the trains and
on the course, and while marking down win-
ning punters levied blackmail on the bag-
men. Those who refused to part up were
dealt with at the first convenient oppor-
tunity. So well organised were the ruffians
that their chief was said to be worth
some £50,000 when he was at last bowled
out for some dirty work and went un for a
stretch, while the bookies were forced to
form a society for their own protection. This
organised a trained bodyguard of “minders,”
parties of whom went on duty at the meet-
ings to look after members of the society.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Carroll (lOst. 4Jib.) fought too fast
for Tommy Fielding (lOst. 41b.) at Leich-
hardt Stadium, and won on a technical
knock-out in 11 rounds. Fielding displayed
exceptional gameness. No matter how often
cracks came his way the plucky Canadian
kept walking in, until his face became a
study in crimson as the result of Carroll’s
lightning-like lefts. The punishment slowed
the overseas scrapper considerably, and from
the sixth the contest became as one-sided as
a photograph. Half-way through the 11th
the third man stopped the slaughter.
* * ❖
If plenty of publicity had been given the
Billy Dutton (list. 31b.)-Joe Keatos (list.
41b.) wrestling match at Rushcutter Bay,
a big crowd would probably have seen a
match well worth watching, but only a few
hundred enthusiasts attended. Dutton knew
more about wrestling than Keatos, and
gained the first fall with a double arm-lock
and splits in 90sec. of the third round.
The Maltese evened in the sixth, and then
Dutton caime through to score the deciding
fall, with a slam and crotch-hold, in 45sec.
of the seventh.
Footbrawl
An enthusiastic crowd of 37,000 squeezed
into the little Richmond ground on Satur-
day, incidentally pushing the fence over and
spilling itself on the playing area, a trifle
that added to the excitement of the meeting
of the undefeated Tigers and Collingwood’s
Magpies. The game was fast and hard, with
veteran Allan Geddes starring. Warming
up after the interval, as usual, the Magpies
steadily totted up a 10-point lead, but fierce
dashes’ in the last quarter gave the Tigers
a 4-point win—72 to ’Wood’s 68. One who
shone out was Doug Strang, Richmond’s
Albury acquisition; another was Geo.
Tatham, from ’Wood’s second eighteen, play-
ing his first League game. Carlton went
to Geelong and, putting in a tremendous
finishing effort, got within six points of the
Seasiders —74 to Geelong’s 80. South and
Saints staged another of their intriguing
clashes, South winning by 127 to 106. Haw-
thorn, according to custom, played vimfully
except when vim was most wanted, and
notched only 94 points to Melbourne’s 109.
Essendon down North, 85 to 63, and
’Scray accounted for ’Roy, 84 to 75.
# * * *
“Glenelg”: Whenever a Victorian football
follower skites about Gordon Coventry’s goal-
kicking, the nearest South Australian sings
the praises of Owens. Some enthusiastic
Wheatfielder has now come forward with
statistics to show that the Adelaide bailer
is the better booter. According to him, in
the last seven years Owens has kicked 477
goals in 104 matches, while Coventry has
notched 607 goals in 135 games—-4.58 goals
per match for Owens and 4.49 for the L»ol-
lingwbod crack.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Recently the Westralian
player Hough migrated to Melbourne, where
he signed up with “Sowth.” Though
Hough alleges he was transferred in the
ordinary course of things by his employers,
the Westralian football authorities went sour
and refused to give him a clearance. Urged
to get a move on by the Victorian body,
Westies rubbed it in by deferring considera-
tion of the matter for a month. The Vic-
torian crowd is at present _ jumping
impotently on its hat and calling its West-
ralian cobber all the kinds of a cow there
are.
* * * *
Another big crowd saw the clash at Sydney
Sports Ground between Western Suburbs,
the Rugby League premiers, and the un-
beaten Eastern Suburbs side. The game
was extremely fast and attractive, but the
combination and extra speed of the Eastern-
ers always kept them a trifle ahead of the
opposition. Leading 14-10 at half-time the
Tricolors clapped on pace in the second
spell and ran out winners by 25-16, or 7
tries and 2 goals to 4 tries and 2 goals. Had
Easts been able to get the ball oftener
the margin would have been much wider.
Pope and Hong, among the Eastern backs, and
S. Pearce, in the forwards, were conspicuous
in a great side. Brogan was again out-
standing player for Wests, McMillan being
below par at full back. South Sydney, the
once invincible, took another downward slide
at Birchgrove, where the in-and-out Bal-
mainers beat them 16-6, the home pack
proving too strenuous for the depleted South-
ern vanguard. Magnus was again prominent
for Balmain, while Righ'ton and Maher
were well in the picture for Souths. At Earl
Park St. George won from North Sydney
21-7, the Saints showing much better form
among the backs than previously. North
Sydney were ragged and unconvincing. The
winners’ score included 6 goals. At Mar-
rickville, Newtown downed University 20-17
after Uni. had made a great final effort
which threatened the home side with defeat
on the verge of whistle-time.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Not only are the South
African cricketers apprehensive of the finan-
cial possibilities in connection w ith their
proposed tour of Australia, but the hard-
headed leaders of the English Rugby League
are also casting the cold eye of suspicion
this way. They have been invited to send a
team out in 1932, and under ordinary cir-
cumstances would have been glad to _come,
for the visits have been very lucrative in
the past. Now, however, they have requested
the Queensland and N.S.W. Leagues to fur-
nish them with particulars of the gate tak-
ings at matches this .season before they will
decide whether to come along or not. .
* * * *
The fifth round of the Rugby Union com-
petition in Sydney saw Manly; draw further
ahead with a convincing win over Northern
Suburbs at North Sydney Oval. The Vil-
lagers, a vastly improved all-round side since
Waratah Syd Malcolm took command, out-
played their heavy opponents in all par-
ticulars, scoring 5 tries, 4 of which were
converted, to a try and a penalty goal, or
23 points to 6. The home-side backs were
very shaky, but with their over-
mastered rarely got a; chance. Tolhurst.
the new inter-State three-quarter, played
another dashing game for Manly, while
Hannam was the best of the Northern backs
behind a ragged scrum. Randwick ran up
a big score against St. George at Coogee,
final figures reading 36-22. Eastern Sub-
urbs, rallying well in the second half, won
from Drummoyne by 3 converted tries (15)
to 2 tries and a goal (8). The Drummoyne
centres were off their game, and Palmer
got little opportunity on the wing. Ross was
in rare form for Easts in the back line.
University surprised by beating Western
Suburbs at Uni. Oval 12-8. The students are
improving with every game, and outstayed
the opposition.
* * * *
Queensland’s Rugby Union team to meet
N.S.W. contains six country players, the
biggest proportion for many a long day.
Five of the six hail from Toowoomba
and one from Warwick. Most of the players
were members of last year’s side, but there
are several interesting newcomers, includ-
ing T. Casey, a Toowoomba five-eighth.
* * * *
“Hokusai”: Not only lias Japan taken to
golf (B. 22/4/’3l), but Rugby football has
been making great headway during the past
few years, it having been introduced by
Gimosake Tanaka, who had learned the game
at Cambridge. It is worth noting that a char-
acteristic feature of the Rugby game and the
Australian code that was derived from it.
drop-kicking, was a favorite recreation ot
the blue-blooded Nipponese at the Emperor s
court in the seventh and eighth centuries, and
is still played as a sort of ceremonial obser-
vance, but only by the haul ton. There is
apparently no set game, the ball being kicked
from one player to the other, but always with
a drop.
(Continued on next page.)
For once the British amateur golf cham-
pionship has been won by a Briton. He is
Eric Martin Smith, a 22-year-old Cambridge
golf blue, who beat De Forest, champion ot
Surrey, 1 up. The American contingent, a
strong one, though Jones was absent, did not
get as far as the semi-finals.
* * * *
Queensland’s open golf championship went
to the ex-N.S.W. professional H. Sinclair,
who is attached to the Warwick club. The
Ma Stater tied with Brown, of Goodna, each
having a card of 298, but in ‘ the replay
emerged winner by 5 strokes —149 to 104.
:|c ❖ #
“The Gaffer”: Australia’s chance of
getting a date for the Olympic Games seems
remoter than ever. Some optimists thought
that, having gone so far afield as Los Angeles
for next year, the Olympic Federation might
be tempted to choose Australia for the
1936 events. That hope has been knocked on
the head, the fixture having been allotted
to Berlin, which is already starting to lay
out the stadium.
jjt * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Bowls just now seem
to be up to putty, as far as inter-
state matches are concerned, it having been
proved impossible, in N.S.W. at least, to get
together a touring team, though several
visits have been projected. The Australian
tourney to take place in Brisbane in August
is held by some to be responsible. D} e
real truth is that few bowlers are now able
to go on these tours under the present
system, whereby each man pays his own
expenses. Sooner or later the heads win
have to fall into line with other amateur
sports and allow travelling and housing exes.
* * * *
“Blade”: Next week will see the Oxford-
Cambridge Cup rowed for on the Bris-
bane River, with the inter-university
sculling championship as a side-dish. The
cup, donated years ago by old Oxford
and Cambridge men in Australia for
competition between the universities, »
held bv Westralia, -which won in Perth last
year from Victoria and N.S.W.


Clubs of
Distinction!
No matter what the grade, each
“Corry” Club is faithfully con-
structed and representative of
the very highest standard in
golf club craftsmanship. Un-
questionably the most distinc-
tive complete Club Series sold
in Australia to-day.
_ V V
r* <
WILL CORRY
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Gun-metal Finish, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 ... 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Gun-metal Finish, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 .... 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Hickory Sheath, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 . . . 37/0
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Hickory Sheath, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 .... 35/-
‘‘Corry” De Luxe Tru-Temper,
Steel-shafted Matched Woods
(Inlaid Faces). Each . . 45/-
COUNTRY GOLFERS
State your specific requirements and
Mr. Corry will make a personal
selection for you.
d
WORLD-FAMOUS
SHOT GUNS
No. 3— Hollis’s “The Reliable”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever, bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both
choke, rebounding locks, cross bolt,
snap fore-end, -J-pistol grip, s
walnut stock <LIS
Carriage Paid.
No. 1 9— Cert D.8.8.L. Hammerless
Gun, 12 or 20G., 32in. steel barrels,
choke, Greener cross bolt
(Anson and Deeley action)**« /7/ —
Carriage Paid.
No. 22— Midland D.8.8.L. Special
Hammerless Gun, 12G., 32in. bar-
rels, left choke, wal- g» < q q /
nut stock, pistol grip, 0/ =
New Temporary Shooting post free on request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Ilay-
marlcetj Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED
7 2 0 HAY MARKET, SYDN EY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment.”
Footbrawl
'“Ilotham”: Even thus early in the season
the Melbourne football casualty list is a
heavy, one, and the authorities are waking
up to the fact .that lenient sentences on
offender's do more harm than good. The
Victorian League has therefore notified all
concerned that it will in future itself put
the boot in when cases of foul and brutal
play are proved. Things waxed similarly
warm a few seasons ago, but improved as the
severity of sentences was increased. In 1926
23 men were disqualified, and the number
dropped to 8 in 1929, but rose to 14 last
year. This season the casualty curve has a
marked upward tendency, deliberate rough
and foul play being largely responsible.
* * * *
“Weka”: The Maoriland Universities team
which lands in Sydney this week promises
to be the usual powerful combination, most
of the players having represented their pro-
vinces, while two at least have worn the
All Black jersey. J. D. Mackay, who has
turned out for M.L. on three occasions, comes
from Victoria College, Wellington, and is a
brilliant wing three-quarter. It. G. Bush, his
brother All Black, is a fullback of renown,
and hails from Otago Uni. J. Ruhu, another
winger, is a Maori from Victoria College, and
played with the Maori team against Britain
last year. Like several of his team mates,
he figured in the M.L. trials for selection
against the tourists.
* fl: :<c *
“Old Q.”: That great five-eighth Tom-
Lawton, has changed his mind about retiring
from football and will figure in the field again
this season, probably turning out for Queens-
land in the second match with N.S.W. at
Brisbane on .Tune 6. His play against the
British side in the Test match at Sydney
last year showed the ex-Oxford blue to be as
good as ever, and he should have, little trouble
in finding his way into the Australian team
which is to tour Maoriland in August.
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League is
entertaining a group of 80 country players in
Sydney this week, ending with a Country-
City match on Saturday. The game will be
a try-out for the N.S.W. representative side
which will tackle Queensland on the two fol-
lowing Saturdays and the King’s birthday,
June 3, on the Sydney Sports Ground. It
will be interesting to see how the Banana-
landers have fared
since the truce be-
tween the warring
factions in Queens-
land was patched
up. There is an im-
pression that the
standard of the
game has slipped a
good deal in the
North.
■* *
“Trie”: Though
representative Rugby
League teams
from this side of
the Tasman have
long ceased to visit
Maoriland, where
the takings have
failed to justify the
expense in the past,
one or two of the
Sydney club sides
have made a short
tour, playing mostly
in the Auckland dis-
trict, where the pro-
fessional game has
a foothold. South
Sydney led the way
a couple of years
ago, and this season
Eastern Suburbs,
which is showing
signs of a return to
its once - brilliant
torm, will probably make the voyage at the
end of the season, especially if the premier-
ship falls to the club’s lot.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur”: When the N.S.W.
player J. O. Anderson asked for re-admission
to the lilywhite fold he was told he
would have to undergo such a lengthy term of
probation before the whitewash was applied
that he abandoned the attempt in disgust.
The other day the ex-Victorian and Davis
Cup amateur A. W. Dunlop applied to the
Council, which has its headquarters in Mel-
bourne, for re-instatement as an amateur. His
request was granted, only three months on
the doorstep being required. Why the dis-
tinction ?
4* *
“Top Spin” : A cable from Gerald Patter-
son, now in America, states that a visit from
Tilden and his professional team is prac-
tically assured for next summer. Tilden has
been playing Vincent Richards in exhibition
matches, and has beaten him consistently,
so the veteran is still far from a has-been.
It is more than likely, too, that a Japanese
side will come down the hill to this coun-
try. Norman Brookes, now recovered from
his severe accident, is going to Nippon on a
health trip, and will try to fix matters up.
* * *
“Der Jong”: South African sportsmen
have always been notorious for their some-
what rabid ideas on the amateur status.
“Bobby” Heine, by far the best tenhis flapper
in Afrikanderdom, was recently married, and
the Southern Transvaal Tennis Association,
to which she belongs, decided to give the
rneisje a wedding present. Then the South
African heads hopped in and forbade the
presentation on the amazing grounds that
it would imperil the lady’s amateur status.
The general opinion is that the big chiefs
are still sulking over “Bobby’s” refusal to
go to Wimbledon last season, and jumped
at this chance of getting even.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: The British open cham-
pionship, which opens at Carnoustie on June 1
and will carry through until June 5, has one
official Australian entrant, Rufus Stewart,
of South Australia. Another born in this
country but now long wedded to American
golf is Joe Kirkwood. The draw for the
first round shows that Stewart will be up
against that hardy veteran James Braid,
who first collected the title in 1901 and has
taken it again four times. Of the lathy type
that lasts, Braid, though 61, is still one of
Britain’s leading professionals. Kirkwood
has been stacked against the Scottish ama-
teur Oaven. He is one of the leading Brit-
ish amateurs at 41, and has represented
Britain against America. On form Kirk-
wood should win this go ; Stewart will have
a tougher job.
“Ilesketh”: Henry Cotton (B. 20/5/’3l)
got away with the big Dunlop tourney at
Southport, a Lancashire seaside course
which can claim to be one of the oldest in
that section of England. In spite of his
infernal temper—he picked up a ball during
the game and chucked it into infinity after
he had made a couple of bad shots —lie
ended up with an aggregate of 287, two
better than his nearest rival, A. Compston.
Alliss, who has been playing as a profes-
sional in Germany for some years, was
third. In spite of his win, Cotton has been
left out of the team of British professionals
who are to play the Yankee pros, for the
Ryder Cup in the U.S.A. Duncan, who
finished well down at Southport, has been
selected ahead of him, together with Easter-
brook, another with nothing like Cotton’s
golf ability. It is one more instance of
offending the susceptibilities of British selec-
tors. English cricket could furnish a dozen
parallels.
“Iconoclast”: I am glad to note that the
Australian Golf Club has decided to
play all its matches in future in a uniform
of fixed design. Writer is old enough to
recall the days in England when it was de
rigueur for golfers to wear a scarlet coat
when chopping their way round the links.
To-day we have gone to the other extreme,
and the public which follows golf matches
is often deceived by the impression that the
player with the baggiest plus-fours is neces-
sarily the champion they have come to see.
I heartily endorse the uniform idea. Foot-
ballers and others addicted to sport wear a
uniform to identify them. As far as the
footballers are concerned a number is also
worn so as to enable pressmen to distin-
guish the player from the referee. I hope
the system will be extended to <rolf: it is
badly needed.
SECOND ROUND.
"I say, sonny; would you mind putting your club in the hole
while I putt?”
“Not a bit, mister; but which hole?”
“Brassey”: Interesting to note that Eng-
land, which invented the steel-shafted club
and made much profit therefrom by exacting
royalties from American makers, has been
hoist with her own petard or stung by the
serpent she has warmed in her bosom —work
the metaphor out how you like. One of
the great stand-bys of the British golfing
professional has been the making of wooden
clubs. In spite of the fact that he had to
import the essential hickory from America,
the Briton easily beat the American maker
in style and quality of his clubs. The steel
shaft has banished that. It cannot be made
by the club professional, who once relied for
much of his income on repairs to clubs and
refitting with hickory shafts. It takes a
proper mug nowadays to do anything that
matters to a steel shaft, to which fresh
heads can be fitted while you wait.
“Pitch”: Golf is full of queer happenings.
Not long ago a N.S.W. country player lost
a match after sending a perfect approach
soaring to the green. His ball hit the top
of the thin iron rod carrying the flag in the
hole and bounced therefrom out of bounds.
An even unkinder trick of fate has been
chronicled in America. There a similar shot
was actually impaled on the top of the flag-
stick, and the question arose as to what
action should be taken. Rule 22 relating to
unplayable balls could not apply, since it
was quite possible to play the spiked pill,
it being neither “lost or unplayable.” The
owner of the bal] took the law into his own
hands and swiped his ball off its perch, and
the matter was allowed to rest at that.
* $ ' l* £
“Carnoustie”: As anticipated, St. Andrews
has banned the use of the new golf club
known as the “skoogee,” which was evolved
in America some years ago. The gadget is
an exaggerated niblick with a deep concave
face, across which, 0 n the bottom edge runs
a wedge. The latter takes the ground in
forcing a ball from a bad lie, while the set-
back face imparts extra backspin to the
ball without the player having to ernplov
a "/JT tlCular sklll in making the shot, pro-
ved connects directly with the ball. In
spite of St. Andras objection, the club is
legal in America, and will, presumably be
runtTv e 'l,,S rl »? J il, ,ea , ms arc pla ™B ™thit
country, just as the larger and lighter ball
now official m America but banned in Britain
® nd a 1 i countries which look to St
w”th r tigr'? r P lda " Ce ’ wiU %• to be played
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: This year’s Indianapolis
500 will see something new in the shape
of a car engined on the Diesel principle
and driven with heavy oil. Entered for last
year's race, the thing was withdrawn by the
designer, C. L. Cummins, Who later gave it
a spin at Daytona, where it ran up to 84
m.p.h. The new model is a greatly-improved
one, and has already done over 100 m.p.h.
The engine is four-cylinder, with bore and
stroke 44 x 6 inches, and can attain 2500
revs, per minute. The car was recently
driven from Ohio to Florida, 2880 miles,
averaging 34 miles to the gallon of heavy
oil, the cost of which for the trip was
£1 13s. The petrol for a standard car of the
usual type which made the journey in com-
pany cost £l2 ss.
“Whizz”: Queensland’s Automobile Club
is endeavoring to have the present speed
limit abolished, as has been done in America,
Britain and most of the European countries,
while the example has already been set in
Australia by N.S.W. The unlimited system
has proved successful beyond expectation,
probably for psychological reasons. When
to exceed a certain speed was to break the
law the average driver was apt to have a
shy at doing so out of sheer perversity. Now
the fact that speeding doesn’t matter a
tinker’s curse, as long as it isn’t done within
heavy-traffic limits, has taken all the zest
out of stepping on it.
“Methuselah”: Recent discussions as to
the date of the invention of the motor-
car remind me that none of The Bulletin
experts put forward the case of the car
designed for the Holy Roman Emperor Maxi-
milian nearly 500 years ago. A contempo-
rary engraving shows the car to be an affair
some 15ft. high topped by a canopied throne
in which Max was to sit. The power was
supplied by two men on a platform at the
back, these operating hand levers which acted
through an elaborate system of cranks on
toothed wheels, which, in their turn, engaged
the four road wheels on which the edifice
rested. No record of speed, hill-climbing
capacity or other qualities has been pre-
served.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Melbourne motor-
cyclist A. E. Simcocks, who recently went
to Hungary in order to break Benne’s
record of 148.09 m.p.h., came neat doing it
over a kilometre run, covering the distance in
14.535ec., which works out at 153.9 m.p.h.
Unfortunately the mean of two runs in
opposite directions was necessary for record
purposes, and on the second spin Simcock’s
engine went phut.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman made a
good start in the European season by win-
ning the Criterion du Bourbonnais, a four-
day-road race, from 40 of Europe’s leading
professional cyclists. During the first two
days the Australian cleaned up every prize
for the different stages, etc. Lamb, who
was 22nd in the race, will be a starter with
Opperman in the Paris-Bourdeaux run, which
is_ timed for May 31, while the pair, with
Nicholson and Thomas, are entered in practi-
cally every team-race in France and Ger-
many for the season.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum and Tom
Newman, who arrived in Australia last
week in company with the English amateurs
Lee and Steeples, will open their Australian
tour in Sydney on June 3. One great draw-
back to the .success of such tours in the past
has been the impossibility of getting a hall
large enough to seat all those eager to
attend. As far as Sydney is concerned the
trouble has been settled by the offer of
Farmer and Co. of their Blaxland Gallery.
The seating accommodation in the Gallery
far exceeds that of any other hall of the kind
in Australia, and record attendances are ex-
pected; The opening match will last from
June 3 to June 15, and reserved seats may
be booked at Farmers.
“Shrewsbury”: The M.L. cricketers have
made a splendid start in England. They more
than held their own in the opening county
matches, and beat a strong Marylebone side
by an innings and 122. Both sides batted on
a rain-spoilt pitch, but the bowling of Cromb
and Merritt was too much for the Englishmen.
The Wellingtonian, Dempster, continued his
fine batting form with 45, but the hero of
the innings was skipper Lowry, who wisely
took the long handle and made his side safe
with a century. The stately Jardine madej
62 n.o. in England’s first innings, but Chap-1
man and other cracks failed dismally. To I
this match Dempster has excelled his show-'
ing in 1927, for he has totalled 496 for four
completed innings, with a highest score of
212 against Essex.
Stumps”: English critics arc acclaiming
Verity, <of Yorkshire, who celebrated his
-6th birthday by taking all 10 wickets for
36 v. Warwickshire the other day, as the
“hope'’ of the cricket world. He is a slow
left-hander coached by veteran Wilfrid
Rhodes. hen he got a place in Yorkshire’s
county XI last year, Verity showed his
ability on wet wickets by upsetting 4 for
45 and 4 for 15 v. Leicestershire and 5 for
6L and 1 for 33 v. Derbyshire. H'e headed
e^ first ' class avei ’ages with 64 wickets at
12.42.
“Hotham”: An unusual distinction has
been bestowed on J. S. Cumpston, the Mel-
bourne University rifleshot; lie has been
awarded an Imperial blue by the British
-National Rifle Association. This was in
recognition of liis performance in the inter-
national Albert Trophy contest last year,
Cumpston put up the highest indivi-
dual score in the universities of the South-
ern Hemisphere.
$ *Jj
Fitzcray : ‘Melbourne is 'to be the venue
of the next Australian Games, in which
all athletes desiring consideration for the
Los Angeles Olympiad must compete. There
is likely to be some friction, for the Aus-
tralian swimming championships have
already been allotted to Adelaide and Perth,
these will either have to relinquish the fix-
tures, or else swimmers who think they
have a chance for the American trip will
have to drop out,of the championships in
favor of the Melbourne games.


'Royal
Vintage 1920
ToH.NL
Kin{£
George V
CHAMPAGNE
btelleidsieck
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagh*
OttrlcsHcidsifiCt
Reims
“MERCURY*’ BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
A MUSICAL INNOVATION FOR SYDNEY
EVERY SUNDAY AT 8.30 P.M.
PROMENADE ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS
AT
Hear the stirring Slavonic Dances, Gipsy Airs, Rhapsodies, etc., played in their
incomparable style by these artists. Hear the Classics interpreted by this famous
combination.
Supper at 2/- is the only charge for these delightful evenings.
For reservations, ’phone 8W1361.
AFTERNOON TEA, 2/6 - - - 3.30 to 5.30.
Dance to the strains of Lionel Hart’s Syncopators.
Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
’-and' this just
CANT happen
\
7
Cash’s Ribbons are most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment—as
mm
hashing RIBBQNSf
look like new after repeat
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in. various
widths
Ask your Draper-
for Cash's.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weavin? Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
By the time you are reading this Letter,
the seven bridesmaids of Bethia Anderson
will be struggling into their shimmering gros-
grain frocks that range from apricot to
faintest yellow—the hues contained in that
alluring rose known by the rather prosaic
name of the Reverend Frederick Page
Roberts. This is a memory of Bethia’s early
days in England, as are the English flowers
that form her bouquet, and the principal
decorations of to-day’s big wedding. bo
many of these will be called into the scheme
that both Queensland and Melbourne gar-
dens have been looted of their blooms. The
bridesmaids will certainly be an unusual
bevy, for their frocks have quaint little dol-
man coats of chiffon fashioned on the artil-
lery jacket of 100 years ago.. These coats
are frogged in a swagger military fashion,
and diamente stars gleam on the shoulder of
each girl according as she is first or second
loot. The principal girl wears the three
stars of captain’s rank on her epaulet. Of
course this is out of compliment to the
’groom, T. H. B. Foott, his father, General
Foott, and Bethia’s own nice father.
The wedding promises to be one of the
monster rallies of the week. About 500
invitations have been sent out, and though
this won’t tax hoary old St. James’s the
reception rooms at Government House are
praying for a fine day so that the company
may be disgorged on to the lawns and ter-
races. Half the North Shore line is coming
into town to have a look at the bride, and
traffic police have been called up to keep a
way clear for the procession. The brocaded
train to the bride’s parchment satin frock,
by the way, is to be carried by little Rose-
mary Game in a primrose-satin frock and
a wreath of primroses.
When The Bulletin’s former chief, Wil-
liam Macleod, died he left his widow the
use of Dunvegan, the Qld family home at
Mosman, for her lifetime, adding that if she
should prefer to live elsewhere the estate
was to put her into another home. The
brilliant lady stayed on for two years,
latterly to complete a richly-illustrated
monograph—“Macleod of The Bulletin” —
which she has written. That labor of love
finished, she has taken a flat in. Macleay-
street, and left Dunvegan, with its wealth
of pictures, to Ron, the only surviving son.
Mrs. Macleod was authorised by her hus-
band’s will to take, among other things, the
very fine collection of pictures with her;
but, except a few paintings of mainly senti-
mental value, she decided not to separate the
gallery from the old home in which it had
been so painstakingly built up.
Isabel Watson, of Canberra, who was
quietly married to Prosper Sandrae, of the
same village, last week, has plenty of Sydney
relations. Her mother was “Poppy” Marks,
sister of Walter, M.P., and cousin of Theo.
architect and racing man, Irene Vivers and
many more. Her father, Dr. Fred, who used
to be the Commonwealth historian, also
belongs to a prominent and numerous family.
A brother, Bertie, did well in the war, and a
sister married Stuart Osborne.
The Warrigal is the latest Sydney club to
go west —it is being incorporated with the
Australian, a little further up Macquarie-
street. The Warrigal was founded as a
resort for pastoralists, as distinguished
from the Australian, which has always
specialised in business men and politicians.
There was talk last year of the Warrigal
merging with the Union, but the big Bligli-
street club has a membership limit of 600,
and its quota is always full or thereabouts,
despite the hard times that have struck all
social clubs since golf began to boom.
James Flett is a Melbourne artist whom
all Australia is likely to know before the
youngster has lost his downy look. Just
now he has a show in the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, which is a blaze of color and imagina-
tive imagery. The young man is amazingly
like the Lindsays. He doesn’t know them
very well, never having met Norman till
his arrival in Sydney, but he has the Lind-
say staccato way of speech, which after
all is not so much rapidity of words as
rapidity of decision. Water-color is this
artist’s medium, and he has a gift for paint-
ing eyes, though his brush seems to have
caught the eyes of tragedy or brooding
melancholy, unlike that of visitor Calder-
wood, who painted so well the eyes of youth
and contentment. The sea and pirates and
old galleons jostle each other with a sugges-
tion of strenuous life in this show, where all
the pictures are priced to meet the times.
Ex-Agent-General George Fuller and his
lady are back in Sydney after their four
years in London. With daughter Mrs. h rank
Wharton and her baby daughter Gwen they
are established in a flat at the Astor, Mac-
quarie-strcet.
Commem. was celebrated light-heartedly
but not lawlessly; there will be no crop of
balings .before Academic Justice. The final
rocket in the week’s gaieties went up on
Friday night when the Faculties of Engineer-
ing and Agriculture coo-eed their best-girls
to dances at the University. The first group
made merry in the Refectory Hall, while the
second tested the strength of the Union Hall.
This had become a frivolous old English
tavern, kept by one Bull Tart, atmosphere
being supplied by highwaymen, squires and
their ladies. A roomy, old-fashioned open
hearth was the orchestra’s headquarters.
Between the dances issues of a serial drama
were served, in which the innkeeper’s beau-
teous daughter and a dashing highwayman
were notable characters. Finally, the guests
were sent into the chilly night with no bene-
diction but the Curse of the Witches in their
ears. Over a thousand of the unarthritic
young danced the night away.
Elioth Gruner, back, from a successful
tour of Maoriland, decides that he is lucky
in the matter of earthquakes but unlucky
in banks. Gruner had been staying at the
ill-fated Masonic Hotel in Napier. Two
days before the upheaval he set off with
a companion by car for Auckland. Some-
thing went wrong with their arrangements
and Gruner, remembering the comfort of his
old quarters, was all for turning back to
Napier and the Masonic; but his pal
said: “No, we’ll flip a coin. Heads we go
on, tails we go back.” Heads it was, and
later Gruner had a private show of his
works in Auckland, where every inch of
canvas was bought. Still later, he came
to Sydney, and the day before the G.S.B.
put up its shutters he banked the whole of
his M.L. profits there.
Last' week Miss N. Brenan, of Arrankamp,
Bowral, celebrated her 70th birthday, and
cables and letters of congratulation poured
in on her from far and wide, for the old
brigade of Arrankampers treasure the memory
of school holidays spent under that friendly
roof. Young mothers and fathers who dis-
ported in that company are in the habit now
of returning to Arrankamp, _ bringing their
own kiddies with them. Middle-aged men
and women whose sons were among those
happy youngsters, and who later saw their
boys marching among the ranks of the A.1.F.,
sometimes go back, and doubtless visit the
spot—once a playtime camp—which Miss
Brenan has set with rosemary and forget-
me-not in memory of those boys who did not
return.
In other times the Brenan sisters were
among the State’s most widely-known belles.
They were all good-lookers, and to Arran-
kamp’s Miss Brenan fell the distinction of
being one of the King’s partners when, as a
young middy, he first visited Australia.
Another sister was the original of the florist
firm, Jean’s.
This is a photograph of the Bowring paint-
ing of Isabel Fidler, which now hangs _ in
Manning House within Sydney University.
The dignity of learning and the kindly humor
have been
cleverly caught
by the artist’s
brush, and
after 20-odd
years of coach-
ing University
girl students
along the scho-
lastic high-
ways and by-
ways, hers is
exactly the
p e r so n ality
that should
emerge. There
were less than
100 girls
going in for
the higher
education
when Isabel
Fidler took up
the work; now
there are about
800, all of whom contributed to the purchase
of the portrait for their Alma Mater. Not
only the State, but the whole of the Con-
tinent owes a debt of gratitude to such
torch-bearers.
This year there has been a fashionable
trek to Bowral. The beauties of other parts
have been more or less ignored; there’s a
tale being told of a young woman who one
week-end found herself the solitary guest at
an expensive hotel, and who for diver-
sion skipped all one way round the
big ballroom, and then for variety skipped
the other way. But Bowral’s guestenes
have been pridefully populated from the sum-
mer onwards, and just now they are all
full to repletion for the school holidays. Dots
of Sydney well-knowns are settled in their
own or rented houses about the various
poplar- and pine-clad rises. The Judge Fer-
guson couple and Mrs. Herbert Marks live
within a stone’s-throw of one another. Ken
Webb, who was to lose his life in a motor
accident, was the architect for the Judge’s
home, The Brackens. Mrs. W. Horsley (who
was Tootles Williamson) is down the hill from
Craigieburn; the Frank Alberts have a farm
in the vicinity, complete with white pea-
cocks, and among the Burradoo Hill dwellers
is Mrs. George Vivers. And one of the gems
of Bowral is Sam Hordern’s place; it is on
the opposite side of the town to Hopewood,
his ill-fated young brother Lebby’s former
home. Audrey Hordern is constantly seen
in a sulky behind a smart-stepping pony, and
Sam’s lady is devoted to her Bowral garden,
and spends as much time as she can spare
from Sydney among its beauties.
Dorn Moreno, the famous composer of
liturgical music from the Benedictine Mis-
sion at New Norcia (W.A.), has been busy
on an unusual task —the direction of a choir
of the Sisters of the convent of St. Joseph,
in Mount-street, in the making of a set ot
records of his church music. These are
claimed to be the first records made by nuns,
and the idea is to demonstrate to convents
and country choirs the correct interpretation
of Father Moreno’s works. They are of the
Gregorian school, and their religious fervor
never slips into the florid operatics of many
of the old Mass composers. Atmosphere
played a great part in the recording, which
was actually done in the convent chapel,
Father Moreno presiding at the organ which
lie himself had built four years ago.
Bethia Anderson, most talked-
of bride, greets you in this Rene Pardon
study. Bethia is one of the city s very
artistic and well-read girls. She organised
the band of
girls who
called them-
selves the
T u r r amurra
Wall Paint-
ers, and who
were respon-
sible for some
more than
credit able
mural decora-
tio n s about
theijr North
Shore suburb.
It was this
group who de-
corated the
chapel in the
crypt of St.
James’s with
picture and
legend of an
old - time
Chris tmas . ~ . ■ A
hymn. In their work they quaintly mixcu
in the modem by chronicling the events
of the hymn as taking place on our own
Harbor, whereon angels and saints journey
in the most natural way in the world.
Bethia, by the way, in this work chose her
bridegroom of to-day as her model 101 o •
John. The vows will be exchanged m bt
James’s, and nearly all the girls wbo helped
to paint the children’s chapel will walk as
bridesmaids.
Prelates, musicians and press representa-
tives were present at the handing over to
the Papal Delegate of sets of Moreno records
—one for the Pope, one for Cardinal Ger-
retti, and one for himself. The Delegate is
a brilliant and courteous host. He greeted
each of his callers with dignity allied to a
sort of boyish merriment, and after the last
rich notes of the records had died away he led
the company out of the big reception-room
to a dining-room and a supper that bubbled,
in the manner of Italy, into sparkling wine
—though there was tea for your dyed-in-tlie-
wool Australian, of whom was Monsignor
King, of the erudite mind and the school-
girl complexion. An interesting record might
have been made of that supper-time
conversation, which, like one of Ihe
Bulletin’s pages, ranged from China to
Peru, with special sympathy for Dorn
Moreno and his native Spain. In the Palace
of Madrid, it appears, there are no fewer
than 17 genuine Stradivarius violins, all in
the orchestra of the Royal Chapel.
Of course if you could beg or borrow a
ticket, or screw enough out of the G.S.B.
to buy one, you went off last Thursday night
to the Undergrads.’ Ball at the Moore Park
Palais. Here an army of the strong per-
sisted in merriment till three o’clock in the
morning, when, fortified by beef-tea against
the dawning’s chill, they took the road home.
The blue and gold of the ’Varsity tied up
the official box and meandered about the
tables of the Mighty, but there was such
a riot of color in the frocking that decora-
tions became pallid by comparison. Peggy
Dawes looked a sweet creature, as, partnered
by Pat White (the flappers’ thrill of the
moment), she showed how the newest ball-
room dances are done. After that many of
the girls went back to the kindergarten steps
in which their partners guided them, for it
is a recognised fact that the more nimble a
mail’s brain is the more leaden are his toes.
V. S. Flynn extended welcome on behalf of
the students to the Mayoral Jacksons, the
academic Mungo MacCallums, John Peden,
Isabel Fidler, Minister for Education Davies
and his wife, and others, among whom
was a nice girl known by the melting name
of Jean Flowerdew (novelists, please note!).
The small boy had followed Auntie to
the incubator when she put the eggs in to
hatch. H’e was fascinated with the proceed-
ings and whenever Auntie made a journey to
the incubator seven-year-old would be hard
on her heels. One morning when the hatchery
was opened chickens instead of the eggs met
the gaze. The youngster took a look, blinked
and exclaimed: “Well, I never! Another of
God's tricks!”
A letter from Bananaland
Peter Dawson and Mark Hambourg had a good
crowd in the City Hall for their opening concert.
Peter began with Bach, and Mark opened with.
Beethoven; the former sang in French as well as
English and German. The Deputy-Governor was
there with his lady, the Premier and Mrs. Moore
and the Attorney-General and his wife.
The Mark Hambourgs were guests at a morning
tea and reception given by Mrs. Harry Cameron and
members of the Town and Country Womens Club
Jean Naylor arranged the music, to which Herod
King, Gwenda Paul and Mr. and Mrs. Brunton Gibb
(Sydney) contributed. Mrs. Hambourg wore black
wool marocain and a black lace straw; Mrs. Cameron
was in flecked jade wool repp.
Charles Slaughter, who has just celebrated his
golden wedding, is the oldest surviving resident of
Sandgate: his acquaintance with it began in 09,
when there were three houses in the place. At 15,
Charles Slaughter took charge of the first tele-
graph office at Sandgate. His wife attended the
first State school in Sandgate, and the pair were
married there.
The Repertory Society staged Philpott s V ellow
Sands” for two nights in His Majesty’s, and Leo
Guyatt gave an outstanding performance as the
young Socialist, Joe Varwell. Barbara Sisley was
at her best as Jennifer Varwell, wearing black silk
and grey moire; Darley Cooper was a charming
Emma, in simple cotton frocks, and Clare Clarke was
Lydia Blake in dimity and peach pink. A juvenile
orchestra was an acceptable innovation, and Dr. J. V.
Duhig stage-managed. At the second performance
Professor Stable announced the winners in the
Repertory prize play competition: G. L. Dann, of
Sandgate, was first, and N. D. Armstrong (N.S.W.)
received second prize. There were 94 efforts sub-
mitted. Mr. Dann is an athletic young man of
26. The scene of his play is a lighthouse on the
Queensland coast.
Yellow chrysanthemums furnished the decorations
and supper was in the lighted garden at the dance
in the Women’s College. Naida Backhouse presided
over the committee. Freda Bage was in black
mariette, and apple green was worn by Naida Back-
house.
Professor Stable presided over a meeting of the
Authors andArtists’ Association in the Women’s
Club, when Merna Gillies arranged a programme of
all-Australian music. Mrs. Allen, Ivy Plane, Mil-
dred Bell, Merna Gillies, Marian Taylor, Verna Mor-
com, Jack Ellis, J. P. Wallis and Forrest-Pearson,
were amongst the contributors to the musical por-
tion, and Nell Douglas Graham gave a musical mono-
logue of her own, entitled “The Old Actress.”
J. W. Greene, the new Mlayor of Brisbane,
was in London when war broke out and joined up
with a London regiment, being later drafted to the
2nd Battalion of the Hon. Artillery company. He
returned to Brisbane in ’l9. His wife, who has
taken a prominent part in many public movements,
was born in Sydney. She was on a travel tour of
Europe with her mother and sisters in 1914; the
party was actually in Berlin when war was declared,
and got out by the last official train. On the return
voyage to Australia she first met her future husband.
Hobart sends a line: —
The Lieut. Gov. and his lady were at the ball
given by the Old Hobartian Association, and received
the bobs of eight demure young things in white.
The Continental ballroom was decorated with badges
and masses of chrysanthemums. A. W. Potter did
the secretary’s job; Seeley Samson and Charity
Wynne gave some fancy dances as an interlude, and
the Lieut.-Gov. presented E. W. Barwick with the
premiership pennant won in the inter-club athletic
championships.
Margot, youngest daughter of the H. B. Hutchi-
sons, and Dr. Philip Bowden, Caius College, Cam-
bridge, announce their engagement. Dr. Bowden
has lately been visiting' his parents in the Speck.
The literary staff of the “Mercury” held a cheery
little function at Hadley’s Hotel iff compliment to
W. H. Simmonds, the retiring editor. A presentation
by the staff took the form of a chair made in Tas-
manian blackwood. It was copied from an illus-
tration in “Robinson Crusoe,” and is not in the
least of the lounge variety.
There was a good crowd at the Town Hall for
the Uni.’s Commem. ceremonies. Among the degrees
conferred was that of Doctor of Laws, on F. C.
Bowden, a Cambridge Ph.D., and Bachelor of
Science on a father and son, H. Warlow Davies and
E. J. Warlow Davies. This is the first time in our
Uni. records that a father and son have been
diploma-ed together.
Nobody worked harder than the women of the
A.W.N.L. in the recent State elections, and it was
largely owing to them that the results were so
gratifying.
The T.H.C. held its last meeting of the season
at Elwick in perfect autumn weather. President
Tom Lyons entertained a big throng at tea, Mr.-.
Lindsay Miller, wife of the vice-president, helping
to do the honors in Mrs. Lyons’s absence. Among
the throng were Knight Elliott Lewis and his lacy,
the Cyril Lewises, the R- C. Fields, Mrs. W. B.
Propsting, the E. H. Websters, the C. E. Websters,
Dr. and Mrs. Fay, Dr. and Mrs. Sprent, Dr. and
Mrs. V. R. Ratteu, the H. Nairn Butlers, the
Francis Fosters, Mrs. and Miss D. Coverdale, C. J-
Eady, the Fred Grants, the Alan Walkers, L.
Walker, Capt. and Mrs. Stoyles, the Leslie Gibsons,
the Alan Millers, Miss Joi Chapman, Mrs. Waugh
and the Huston Rookes.


/
4
mm
m
. ' ; •■
pa*M
Bpul
ar
Everybody at ease —the perfect hostess.
Dainty supper —dainty as herself. Tasty
sandwiches, tasty savouries—everybody eat-
ing. Eating dainty fingers of toast spread
with tasty REX Salmonelle. Daintily rolled,
finely cut buttered bread spread with
Salmonelle and browned in a hot oven.
Salmonelle, the REX Australian fish paste,
in dainty glass jars. Delicate flavour, dis-
tinctive. Isn't it ? Was ever fish paste like
this before? Never at all.
Three
Savouries
Take rings of hard-boiled
egg with yolk out, place
rn round pieces of toast.
Fill rings with REX
Salmonelle (after being
mixed with yolk). Take
rashers of fried KEX
Bacon and circle round
egg and Salmonelle. Gar-
nish with parsley.
Cut some tomatoes into rounds and fry
in a little butter; have ready some small
rounds of buttered toast ir small sao
biscuits. Spread with KEX Salmonelle,
put a slice of tomato on each, and
cover with grated cheese. Decorate
with a few capers. Put in oven for a
few minutes and serve hot or cold.
Cut toast into finger shapes and spread fairly
thickly with REX Salmo elle. Take one hard'
boiled egg, chop white and yolk separately,
cover the ends of toast with yolk, and centre
part with white of egg, and serve cold. Separate
white from yolk with spread of chopped parsley.
SALMCNtLLE
&>
Z&t£d
Foggitt Jones Pty. -Limited —Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon


Mere instinct guides both bird and beast,
When in the wilds they wander free;
Unerring sense directs the least —
The monkey knows his own home tree.
Mere instinct also aids mankind
To ease the ailments all endure —
Relief for colds mere babes may find
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.-— Advt.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHI EF THEATRES,
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE HOVE RACE.
T C. WILLIAMSON,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE MIKADO
(Commencing Saturday, 30th May).
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE CALENDAR,
With FRANK HARVEY and brilliant company.
'TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
Legal Notice.
Re WILLIAM JAMES HEWITT Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 19th
day of January 1931 made In an Action in the
Matter of the Estate of William James Hewitt
deceased (late of No. 12 Trent Avenue Ealing in the
County of London who died on the 21st day oi
September 1927) Hewitt and Porteh v. Cairns (1930
H. 4538) whereby the following Inquiry was directed
namely: “An Inquiry whether Doris Chandler a
daughter of the above-named Testator William James
Hewitt is living or dead and if dead whether she
survived the Testator and if she survived him who
is now her legal personal representative.”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiry are
on or before the 15th day of October 1931 to send
bv post prepaid to Messrs. Greenwell & Co. Solicitor;
of 4 Berners Street London W.l their full Christian
names and surnames addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims or in default there?!
they will be excluded from the benefit of the sam
Order unless the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
bv their Solicitors before Master Keen at tne
Chambers of the Judge Room No. 237 Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London on Thursday the 29th daj
of October at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon tor
adiudicating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales must
send with particulars of his claim the name »P"
address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 21st day of April 1931.
PRETOR W. CHANDLER,
Master for Master Keen
NoTK __The above-named Testator William Jam?;
Hewitt was a retired oflicer in his Majesty’s Arm'
and was for many years stationed in India an?
France. He died on the 21st of September 19?>
The said Doris Chandler was his only surviving
child and is said to have married William Hubert
Chandler at the Register Office Barnet Middlesex
on the 6th November 1923. It has been said that tne
said William Hubert Chandler went to Australia
and that his wife followed him as a stewardess.
Melbourne
Chatţer
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
[?]uckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
After a morning that promised fair it
turned out a showery afternoon for. the
Williamstown races. When it wasn’t raining
it could be noted with appreciation that the
lawns looked like green velvet pile carpets
and that there was a brave showing of gold-
tipped cypress-trees and beds of begonias.
J. J. Liston’s Lineage cheered up the many
who backed the horse by winning the chief
race of the meeting. Feminine dressing was
largely a matter of topcoats, furs and felt
hats. Mayoress Luxton was there, all in
black, Mrs. U. J. Nicholas, who accompanied
her being well wrapped in a fur-collared
brown tweed coat and matching millinery.
Mrs. J. F. Nagle sported a black tailored
suit with a touch of ecru lace. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, the W. Rogers Thomsons and
daughter Kathleen, Mrs. Stuart Ferguson
and Mrs. J. Wilkie Young were in the mem-
bers’ stand. Mrs. J. J. Liston’s berry-red
ensemble gown had beige fur additions.
Debs, to the number of 34 made the social
plunge at the Newman Society’s ball, staged
at St. Kilda Plaza. Mrs. D. Barry and Mrs.
F. Coffey coached the buds and their part-
ners in the grand march and the following
set of lancers, and the young folk made a
very charming picture as they paced slowly
down the ballroom four deep. The lengthy
gowns and long kid gloves of the present
mode were features of the show. Instead
of bouquets dainty wristlet posies that trailed
the pale blue and gold of Newman were
sported. Among the fledgelings were Amy
Lucini, whose flounced georgette with its
spray of blue-centred roses came from
Colombo; and Nancy Mitty, whose frilled
i ulle frock had a bodice of late-Victorian cut.
Nancy Nugent’s white taffeta had perpendi-
cular and circular ruchings of the material.
Mollie Hedrich, the only auburn-haired miss
in the group, was a study in wee frills of
glace silk that invaded the basqued bodice.
Marie McCaffrey’s tulle skirt bore an
appliqued design in white satin, and Pat
Breheny had glistening shoulder-straps to
her chiffon draperies. Many of the gowns
featured a normal waistline marked by
narrow felt of ribbon or diamente. A delightful
confection of filmy lace with tulle frills was
displayed by Miss E. Prahl.
D. J. McGrath, president of the society,
was accompanied by his wife, whose pre-
sentation bouquet toned with the rose and
beige pattern on her black gown. Dr. and
Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy were there,
she in Lido blue georgette. Mrs. D. P.
Mackey, in black velvet, came with her
sisters Dulcie and Alice Hallett. Mrs.
Peter Lucini and Mrs. H. I. Cohen chose
black lace. Miss Egan, matron of Newman
College, danced in wine-colored georgette.
Mena McGrath wore a fascinating forget-
me-not-blue gown whose tulle flounces ex-
tended almost to the circumference of a
crinoline. Father Murphy, rector of New-
man, beamed on the proceedings.
To celebrate its amalgamation with the
Empire Reciprocity League, the British
Empire League gave a dance at the Rex,
where the tables were made patriotic with
crimson carnations, white rosebuds and corn-
flowers. Alan Michaelis, chairman ; L. Moore,
president; and Dorothy Penberthy, sec. of
the League, joined with Mrs. T. Marshall
Wood in organising the hop, with H. L.
Morgan as hon. treasurer*. Some city firms
sent gifts which were auctioned by J. O.
Watt, assisted by Mrs. Wood, whose sunset-
pink frock had a bolero of black velvet.
There were also cabaret turns. Lady Law-
ford danced in smoke-grey chiffon, with sil-
very leaves mingling in her hair. Mrs. R.
G. Casey, senior, in black; Miss V. Brod-
ribb, Commander and Mrs. Geoffrey Haggard
and Mrs. E. Hallenstein were among her
guests. J. O. Watt, Lady Lawford’s son,
brought a party that included Phyllis Bray,
of Adelaide, wearing mushroom-pink chiffon ;
Ann Outhwaite, in satin of the hue of a
La France rose; Mary Murray, in grosgrain
silk patterned in brocade design in rose red
and beige; and Nancy Syme, who was in
black lace. Mrs. J- L. Moore had tulle
flounces to her black lace gown. Mrs. M.
Greene’s black chiffon was figured with large
pink roses. Also there were the Wilfred
Brookes, she in white satin; Commander
and Mrs. Woolcott and Mrs. W. A. Dyson.
A farewell card-party in honor of Mrs.
Cleve Kidd was given by Mrs. Harley Styles
at her home in Toorak. The guest was
garbed in filmy black lace, and the hostess
favored lace of ficelle tint. Mrs. Kidd, who
is a member of the Sunshine Harvester
McKay clan, has been a widow for several
years. She is to become Mrs W. A. Hunt on
her arrival in London.
The Empire Society, Empire Union,
Empire League Society of St. George, Vic-
toria League, Navy League and English-
Speaking Union united in bidding farewell
to Lord and Lady Somers at No. 9. To
welcome the vice-regals, who were accom-
panied by Captain and Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald, the presidents of the various
organisations were lined up, the Allen lady
and medical-knight James Barrett heading
the posse. Her Ex. wore a gown of myrtle-
green chiffon with coatee of the same shade
brocaded in gold and silver. A posy was
handed to her. Both Lord and Lady Somers
said their regrets at going. His Ex. was
hailed with “For He’s a Jolly Good Fel-
low,” and later in the evening there was
more community singing of “Rule Brit-
annia,” “Auld Lang Syne” and “God Save.”
An interlude was the presentation by the
Governor to Dick Latham of a couple of
books—a recognition of his winning the
Walter Frewin Lord prize, which is com-
peted for all over the British Empire. Mr.
Latham, who is this year’s Rhodes Scholar,
is a son of the J. G. Lathams—pa is, of
course, deputy-leader of the United party.
Melbourne Scottish Society met at Scott s
on a recent evening, guests being greeted
with the skirl of the pipes. A welcome was
extended to the new president, A. A. Laing,
at one time general manager of the Royal
Bank. Mrs. Laing, in black satin .with a
dash of cornflower blue, accomnanied. her
husband, and in the throng were the retiring
president, Peter Sutherland, and his wife, she
in black, the J. A. Gilruths and the Bruce
Laings. An instrumental quartette, led by
Frank Johnston, performed, and Scottish
songs were warbled by Ella Riddell and
Norman Bradshaw.
The Rotarians had a. ladies’ evening at
the Wattle, when there were guessing com-
petitions, and General Monash gave an
account of his visit to India for the in-
auguration of the new Delhi. President
W. J. Rose and Mrs. Rose,, she in black
velvet, extended the welcoming hand.
Patricia Noonan was hostess of a dance
at the Kooyong club-house. Mrs. Noonan,
in Venetian-red georgette, assisted her
daughter, who received her guests in satin
of deep vellum tone.
At Christ Church, South Yarra, Canon
MoCoy, uncle of the bride, forged the links
between Gladys, eldest daughter of the J. N.
McKechnies, of St. Albans, and William,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. R. Barnett, of
Sunshine. The bride was in ivory satin
and Limerick lace, and carried a blue posy.
Jess and Gwen McKechnie attended her, in
frocks of hydrangea-blue lace and shaded
tulle flounces, with matching felt hats.
The wedding of Nesta, daughter of Mrs.
M. Miller, of Kew, and Dr. George Simpson,
whose parents reside at Hamilton, in the
Western District, took place at Holy Trinity,
Kew. The bride, who for the last three
years has been dietician at the Melbourne
Hospital, was attired in gown and veil of
old Brussels lace. Her sister Enid ’maided
in a filmy frock of peach pink.
Tennis-player Charles S. Buckley took on
a permanent partnership at St. John’s,
Beaconsfield, with Jessie, only child of the
R. G. Kings, Quiamong, Upper Beaconsfield.
The countryside was well represented at
after-rejoicings, staged at the Lakes Golf
Club. Ivory tinted ninon that went on its
flared way to the ground was worn by the
leading lady, who dispensed with a veil,
sporting instead a lace and pearl cap that
dipped to one side with pendent orange buds.
The ’maids’ frocks of russet-pink chiffon
blended with toques of velvet, and they car-
ried sheaves of chrysanthemums. The local
Rangers and Girl Guides formed a guard of
honor, for the bride is captain of the Ist
Berwick and Ist Upper Beaconsfield com-
panies.
At St. John’s, Toorak, vows were ex-
changed by Lesley, daughter of the J. L. R.
Bakers, of Velna, Hamilton, and David, son
of John Fenton, of Lantana, in the same
district. A Honiton-lace veil flowed over
the bride’s vellum-hued satin gown, and she
carried am armful of roses. Her sisters Berta
and Norma attended in frocks of apricot-
pink georgette with blending caps. Many
Western district folk assembled afterwards
at No. 9.
A wedding of the near future will be thfit
of Cecil, daughter of medical-knight Henry
Maudsley and his lady, and Barrister Leo
Miller, a son of Mrs. Albert Miller and
nephew of knight Edward Miller, of Mel-
bourne.
Dickinson-Monteath pictures here Mar-
garet, daughter ot Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Gil-
ruth, who is on her way to England, accom-
panied by her
school - chum
Mary, daugh-
ter of Dr. and
Mrs. S. V.
Sewell. They
are travelling
in a Nor-
wegian wheat
ship, thanks
to an acquaint-
ance between
the captain,
and Miss Gil-
ruth’s parents
that goes back
to the time
when Dr. Gil-
ruth was
Administrator
of the N.T.
Also aboard
is the chief
engine er’s
wife, Mrs.
Lawson. Roth misses have relatives in Eng-
land and Scotland.
The other day the Australian flag flut-
tered for the first time from the flagpole of
what was Government House for years and
years. This innovation —hitherto only the
Union Jack has graced that staff—marked
the installation in their new quarters of the
pupils of the Girls’ High School.
Elizabeth Eddie, vice-principal of the
Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy, who died a few days ago, had
been connected with the Education Depart-
ment for 40 years and was due to retire.
Owing to a breakdown in health she was
given a month’s furlough, and her colleagues
had arranged to celebrate her retirement.
Miss Eddie was one of the teachers sent
to S’Africa after the Boer War to re-estab-
lish the schools. Returning to Australia
she was associated with the early develop-
ment of the College of Domestic Economy
in Lonsdale-street.
The Tivoli, which has been going through
a period of closing down and re-opening,
merely to close down again, has been reno-
vated —new wallpaper, plenty of gold paint,
lashings of red plush and new pile carpets.
A beautiful crystal chandelier that illumi-
nated Parliament House in the long ago
gives an air of pomp and circumstance to
the foyer.
In the performance of Edgar Wallace’s
sporting melodrama, “The Calendar,” at the
Comedy, three fair punters wear distinc-
tive spring raiment. Coral Brown, as the
life-partner of a dissolute bai’onet, sports a
georgette gown that is patterned in cubist
design in orange, rose and lime with large
straw millinery of flame tint—that’s the
sort of woman she is. Later she dons a
rose-red lace evening gown that scintillates
gold, and as the curtain descends she is
in white satin pyjamas and a red satin coat.
jDieudonnee Waldron, as the nice sister of the
naughty baronet, wears apple-green draperies
topped by a floppy crinoline hat of much
deeper shade. Lots of flowers were handed
the two actresses. In the first-night audience
were the Ivan Gutmanns, Mrs. Merson
Cooper, Mr. and Mrs. D. McPherson and
Mrs. L. Macdonald.
There is still some money for pictures. At
the Artists’ Society’s show 17 or 18 paint-
ings were sold. Dora Wilson, who is hang-
ing at the Fine Art Society’s gallery studies
in oils depicting local streets and buildings,
began well with nine sales. She is running
another show simultaneously in Adelaide,
where the catalogue comprises landscape and
architectural pieces gleaned during her
recent European tour. The English soldier-
artist Harold Latham, whose show at the
Sedon Galleries was opened by Lord Somers,
also had no reason to complain. Amongst
those at the launching were Captain R. T.
A. McDonald, who accompanied the Gover-
nor ; Mrs. McDonald, the Robinson lady,
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, Mrs. Oswald Syme,
Mrs. Percy Blackbourn, Mrs. T. Sadler Gill
and her daughter Mrs. A. Fowler.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes and their
eldest daughter, Cynthia, have departed
for a holiday jaunt in the Orient this week,
and are expecting to return by way of Hono-
lulu about August. During their absence
Elaine and Hersey Brookes will remain as
boarders at Toorak College, Frankston. They
will accompany their grandmother, _ Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, on a motor trip to
Queensland next month for the marriage in
Toowoomba of Jessie, daughter of Littleton
Groom and his lady.
Gladys Petrie, an ex-student, of the Uni.
Con. and later a pupil of Dinh Gilly, gave
a vocal recital in Paris lately and pleased
the critics.
Out of this
window looks
Peggy Lord,
lately of
Warrnambool,
where she was
for a time art
mistress at the
High School
and made a
hobby of ama-
teur acting.
She has come
to Melbourne
to pursue ner
art studies at
the Natiouai
Gallery under
Bernard Hall,
and has joined
the Student
Theatre
Society.
The Standard Players, directed by Eileen
O’Keefe, made their debut in four one-act
plays. In H. Brighouse’s fantasie “When
Did They Meet Again?” Molly Stanley was
effective as an elderly spinster chaperon,
and Violet Welshman and M'ax Shaw played
leading roles. Olivia Woolford was starred
in “Elizabeth Refuses,” from Jane Austen’s
“Pride and Prejudice.” “The Dear De-
parted,” by S. Houghton, and Strindberg’s
“The Stronger” completed the bill. Mar-
jory Wilson took the speaking r6le_ in the
Strindberg piece, Molly Stanley being the
silent player.
Isabel Handley’s one-act comedy “A Clue
There Was” has been produced in London.
This play, which was performed at the
Lyceum Club here, was sent to the Lyceum
Club overseas. Theatre-manager Nancy
Price found it was just what she wanted
to fill up a bill of four short plays for a
Sunday-night performance.
Westralia’s M.P., May Holman, who has
been in Melbourne for the last few week?,
is stilj on the sick list. Thousrh due to
return to her State this week, she is not yet
well enough to go back to the hurly-burly
of politics.
Sculptor Paul Montford has been ask-
ing in the Melbourne papers for a genuine
cabbage-tree hat. A member of the Marcus
iClarke family finally obliged him. It turned
out that the headgear had been worn by the
great Marcus himself, and' as he was a friend
of Adam Lindsay Gordon it was right into
the ehiseller’s hands. He requires it for
his commissioned statue of the poet, which
is to adorn a Melbourne street.
A letter from Westralia: —
Pretty girls- twinkled their toes among gold braid
and trappings at the Naval Reserve Ball at Fre-
mantle. The Nelson and Rodney, the Hood and the
Renown, and a host of light cruisers and ’plane
carriers ploughed their way in miniature through
a sea of rippled glass. The clever model of a naval
review at Spithead occupied a dais in the centre
of the room. Mrs. Griffiths-Bowen’s gown flashed:
blue upon gold. Mrs. Field-Martell favored misty-
blue taffetas; Mayoress Gibson wore a chenille coatee
over her black gown. Mrs. Ned Kelly's choice was
powder-blue, Mrs. Harmon’s black lace and chiffons,
and Mrs. Hatton’s black lace attached to a satin
corsage. Marion Gibson wore blue moire, Marjorie
Stoneman chose henna georgettes, Topsy Hyen ex-
tended her black toilette to long kid gloves, and
Miss Brown-Cooper wore pale green velvet, while
Joan Stacy’s ivory satins were smart and beflared.
The Repertory Club staged a good-bye pat-on-the-
back party for secretary Molly Ick, who is off for a
year abroad. The McNess Hall sheltered the jollo.
Mr. Bickford, in handing over a wristlet match, said
some nice things about the departing traveller. Inter-
spersed with music were a couple of brain-ticklers,
two playlets and comical efforts by the Repertory
Quartette. Mr. G. C. Haywood, Alec King, Joyce
Fuller, Pat Hanna, Ralph Stoddart and Phil Shappere
were among the performers.
Peggy Dodwell-Browne, of Bridgetown, has be-
come affianced to Herbert Davies. Guida, second
daughter of the J. L. B. Weir couple of Claremont,'
has promised to undertake the great adventure with
Ray Cockburn.
Perth does not often run to midnight shows, but
the latest antidote for blase young things, following
on the Long Tack Sam cabaret, was quite a success.
Long Tack and his retinue of magicians appeared
in Temple Court ballroom in their bizarre stage cos-
tumes, but refrained from producing rabbits from
their sleeves or spiriting away beautiful ladies.
Noticed among the dancers were Mrs. Arthur Francis
a-glitter in white, Rene Esler in a magpie contrast,
Mignon Renou in silver, and Dulcie Duncan in ivory
taffetas. Darrel Harford and Miss L. Mackintosh
wore black, Gertrude Mitchell favored a buttercup
medley, Elsie Paxton fluttered orangy laces, and
Doreen Sheridan was in white satin a-flash with beads.
Bridge played one evening in the refectory of the
Uni. added a bit to the Newman Society’s building
tod. KM «
the° r Newman 8P Sodety, Joan McKenna was hostess,
fluttering shrimp-pink georgettes. . . -
King’s Park pavilion, its snug interior gluing
with firelight and autumn flowers, hous^ a
given by the Frank Davies couple in honor of .on
Geoffrey f just turned 21. Healths were
Mr. Frank Wittenoom and Dr. Baiker, and «,
birthday cake put a crown on the supper. P &8Y
Dodwell-Browne, Mary Main, Kate Davies, a tno ■
the Waldie Forbes lassies, Mollie Robinson, Barba a
Clarke and Ursula Burt were among the dancers.
Adelaide’s note: — ■ ' .
His Ex. was at Morphettville for the last of t
autumn meetings, where the double tc,fce _ co “ tl "^ d
to be the star attraction for the women. The .attend-
ance was excellent; there was not a vacant chair
at the afternoon tea, over which Mr. Whitmore Ca
presided. Black face-cloth coats and tweed tailored
suits were again the uniform wear. Q ,, _
The Adelaide University Dance Club held another
of their cheery hops in the Refectory. The joint
presidents (Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters) unfortunately
couldn’t be there, but professors and their wives are
always ready to act as chaperons.
St. Peter’s College chapel was a mass of pink and
white flowers for the wedding of John Howard Beare
and pretty little Bettie Bruun, of Coleraine, Victoria.
The bride, who was given away by her uncle, Mr.
W. N. Twiss, was frocked in daffodil satin with a
long skirt of flounced silk net in the same shade, and
a hat en suite. Mrs. Eric Bruun and her daughter
Peggy were in Adelaide for the wedding. The
reception was held at the Wentworth.
Mr. and Mrs. T. C. Walker, of Unley Park, left
for Melbourne this week to catch a Dutch boat bound
for northern parts. They will visit Java, Chiba,
Japan and Manilla.
A dance at Girton House was arranged by the
Girton Old Scholars’ Association, the staid class-
room having been converted into a bower of lo\el\
flowers. Supper and bridge in the scboolhouse, the
Old Collegians’ orchestra and a spacious garden to
sit out in left nothing to be desired. Marjorie
Stone was the energetic little secretary. In the
absence of the headmistress, Mrs. Angove, who is
making most of the brief holidays, Mesdames Her-
bert Stone and Gilbert Lawrence received the guests.
The Lend-a-hand Club, started last year by Lady
Hore-Ruthven to provide clothes for the destitute, has
been revived by the Mayoress, and sewing meetings
will be held twice a week at the headquarters of
the Girl Guides for the next three months. Mrs.
Walter Duncan will supervise the workers at the
six sewing-machines. The sewing will be Mrs.
Compton Trew’s department, and Mrs. R. Scott-
Young has undertaken the cutting out of garments
from material supplied by the club. Many of the
beneficiaries like to come and sew, so Miss Lenore
Symon will take charge of the little' ones they bring
with them.
To raise funds for the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary
the matron and nurses organised a bridge party in
the nurses’ quarters on Wednesday evening. Toe H
lent all the bridge tables and the nurses gathered
in all their friends to play. Nothing beats bridge
as a money-raiser these times; on Thursday night
Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters lent their beautiful rooms
for a flutter in aid of the Y.W.C.A. The ballroom,
smoking-room and sitting-room were fragrant with
lovely sweet-peas and roses.


South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tEuripides .. 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor .. 15,000 „ Sept. 29
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 24
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Nov. 23
fThemistocles 12,500 „ Dec. 2
'First class only. tFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. 1,
Gilchrist, Watt# Sanderson, Ltd./ J
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
&11 passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
,?- an , k k® B Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL . - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances"'! on ail classes of
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
. ture,&c .Rents also assured.
Marine Risks 011 Wool, Merchandise,
" Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Jke ‘‘United” is an Australian Institution.
A. O. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Missing Friends.
Re GEORGE JAMES PEARSON.
VW'ILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of GEORGE .JAMES PEARSON, son
of Joseph Pearson and Sarah Agnes Mason,
late of Hobart (or of any of his children),
ferSßSbSt* wit “ the PUBLIC
IF JOHN DENNIS LOWREY and CECIL
CHARLES LOWREY, who are believed
to be in Queensland, will communicate with
the undersigned they will hear something
to their advantage.
CORNWALL, ANDERSON & STODART,
Solicitors,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
CHOULD this meet the eye of Mr. J. R.
WOOLLETT, late of Queensland, will
be please communicate with M. 0., address
care of Bulletin Office, Adelaide Street,
benefit 110 ’ m matter something to his
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
“Give the Devil His Due.”
Possibly Theodore means well after
all. 'Where and how he is all wrong
is shown in The Barrier Miner” of
May 23. This is the great Central
Australian daily newspaper published
at Broken Hill, in the Green, Green
West, where the cattle and sheep are
fattening fast.
LOVELY
RAROTONGA
PEARL OF THE PACIFIC
To meet present conditions a
short, inexpensive holiday ex-
cursion to Rarotonga has been
arranged by the Union S.S. Co.
Leaving Sydney on June 11 by
the “Makura,” those availing
themselves of this opportunity
will make the return voyage
by the “Maunganui,” reaching
Sydney July 4.
First Class return, £45
Second Class return, £34
(No exchange.)
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
fisji
-M
'"UHniiil
[ * at, u. .
M T A
;r*T
$
f\
‘MM
••'•■'-• *v.V
S^r,
A WINTER TOUR
TO
Smooth Water. Native Bazaars. Tropic Isles.
Leaving Sydney
6th JULY, 1931, by S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Swimming Bath.
Deck Cabins. Gymnasium.
AN ALL-EXPENSE ROUND TOUR £l2B.
Includes First-class return steamship accommodation,
hotels, two weeks’ motor trip through Java, guides, tips
to hotel servants, etc.
Portion only of fare subject to exchange.
Ask for Folder No. 11.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge St., Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Cairns, Townsville, etc.
“8.-P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
A LI r AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” Gd. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers.’
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney °
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
lakes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
SHADOW SHOWS.
The writer frankly owns that he didn't
sit through “Viennese Nights,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, though he had paid for a
stall out of his own tax-depleted pocket.
The color-photography ejected him half-way
through. According to a recent London cable,
the Spicer-Dufay process is going to revolu-
tionise the film industry. After five years’
secret work the inventor has completely
realised the ideal of perfect natural color
| photography, hitherto sought in vain.” Until
! the truth of that boast is established at
least one Australian film-addict is going to
stay away from color films, particularly
spectacular ones. The sound effects at the
Prince Edward are good, and the figures
more or less resemble human beings at close
quarters; but as often as they get back-
screen they suggest the faceless figments of
a color-blind alcoholist’s nightmare.
¥ ■¥ *
Sydney Capitol supplies no programmes, so
it is impossible to do justice to the capable
cast that supports Wheeler and Woolsey in
“Kook, Line and Sinker.” It is a cod on
a gangster movie, and would be just as
funny with the two stars left out. Mary,
a burlesque of the fat-headed virsrin of Holly-
wood romance, inherits a ruined hotel which,
at the suggestion of Wheeler and Woolsey.
is furbished up and advertised aS a haunt
of the aristocracy. The visitors are practi-
cally all thugs and burglars barring Mary’s
immense mother. She turns up with a crook
lawyer who wants to marry the innocent
girl for her money. Machine-guns, sawn-off
shotguns, pineapple bombs and dynamite are
brought into play in the ensuing proceedings,
which are as fast as a motor-race and as
deafening as an active-service bombardment.
As in all shows of its kind the laughs depend
on anti-climaxes. For example, “The
Duchess,” a sinuous and nymphomaniacal
gangster villainess, who drips revolvers as
she is being shown to her room, steals what
she imagines to be priceless jewels from
the hotel safe, only to find when arrested that
she has got hold of the night-watchman’s
supper. A packed house yelled its apprecia-
tion on the night the writer saw the show.
“The Conquering Horde” (Paramount)
is the subsidiary at the Capitol. Every
pioneer film has substantially the same plot.
The girl owns a ranch, of which villainy
wants to rob her. A young man blows in—
a dead shot, a useful horseman and a friend
of her family in youth —and saves the
situation, not by his own ability so much
as owing to the astonishing brainlessness
and credulity of the opposition. In “The
Conquering Horde” Fay Wray wants to get
her cattle over the Texas border, and Rich-
ard Arlen helps her to do it against long odds.
The pictures of the trek are interesting
though familiar. The start amidst the cheers
of the spectators, the duststorm, the rain-
storm, the fording of the river, the arrival
of the Indians, the last stand of the villain
and his hirelings—all are as old as the
happy ending, which leaves the hero and
heroine in each other’s arms.
The theme of “Charlie Chan Carries On”
(Fox), at Sydney Regent, is the ever-fami-
liar murder mystery which leaves all parties
under joint and several suspicion till the
end. Warner Oland is Chan, another out-
come of the ceaseless efforts of writers all
over the world to create another Sherlock
Holmes. The opening assassination occurs
in London, and the eyes of Scotland Yard
turn longingly to the Orient, where Charles
is. Deceased is an American whose friends
continue their trip to San Francisco via the
Riviera, Suez and Honolulu. Chan is picked
up when they are half-way to their destina-
tion, and the murderer is nailed as the
anchor drops at ’Frisco. The yarn is silly
enough to grip the moron, and the acting
is good enough to hold spectators of intelli-
gence, so the box-office should do all right.
Anyhow the picture is worth the money
as a travel-gazette. London, the south
of France, Egypt, etc., are presented as they
are, so that those who are barred by the
exchange from the wandering life of which
they dream can at least recapture a shadow
of its delights. The sound-registration is
excellent, and there are many beautiful
design-forms- -more particularly of ships and
things appur riant thereto. The publicity-
man implores you “not to tell your friends
who the murderer is.” In disclosing that
he is a sound actor no secret is given away,
for all the material parties—-Warren Hyrner
and Marguerite .Churchill, John Garrick and
Marjorie White—are about equally good.
“Girls Demand Excitement,” another Fox
iat the same popular resort, is a cahlidge
Istahry. John Wayne aims to keep grand old
Bradbury up to the level of Yale. Harvard,
Princeton and a fourth seat of learning
which he pronounces Nota Daim. The cala-
mitous production is described by its authors
as “Collegiate in its nonchalantness. Col-
legiate in its style. Collegiate in its Greek
fraternity motto, “I wanna neck.’ ” Virginia
Cherrill is the petulant daughter of a mil-
lionaire, and Mr. Wayne is putting in his
summer vacation as one of her father’s
gardeners, A huge footage of film is used
to make the point that they are mutually
attracted but unwilling to admit it —a
masterpiece of redundancy this, since the
thing is driven home with a mallet in the
first yard or so. Later the lady follows
Wayne to Bradbury. With the exception of
a couple of comic characters nobody is edu-
cationally inclined: what our courts call
misconduct, and its approaches, are the
only matters subjected to serious study. This
pitch is rather queered by a sort of “Lysis-
trata” situation. Mr. Wayne, who, like so
many film-heroes, is a young and beautiful
edition of our old friend Stiggins. has organised
“The Spartans” to put an end to eo-educa-
Jion. With the object of collaring the male
anti-co-ed. vote Miss Cherrill enlists her
fellow kiss-chasers under the slogan “No
Votee —No Pettee.” Thereafter it is kisses,
kisses all the way, plus a bedroom slab,
which isn’t there at all because the censor
has obviously cut it out, but which would
assuredly have made the wowsers howl with
agony if it had been left in. The betrothal
of Mr. Wayne and Miss Cherrill ends a pic-
ture from which it. is possible to get a
genuine thrill by reason of its colossal and
unmitigated vulgarity.


<</<
y
/
Guaranteed
Gas-tight!
pT VERY Pyrox Plug is strin-
gently tested to ensure it
is gas-tight and electrically
efficient. Pyrox Plugs are
manufactured in Australia by
Bosch experts using Bosch
machinery and materials. The
quality is unsurpassed and the
price the lowest on the market
for a high-grade plug.
Sold by all garages and accessory houses.
aYUfl*
Manufactured by PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.), Melbourne.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Here is an original essayette on marriage.
We do not give the writer’s name, lest
harm befall him. Australia can ill spare so
sprightly a young man:—
Those who rail against marriage have either been
jilted or accepted.
Marrying for love is a white elephant. It is
sacred, but it eats its head off.
Marrying for money is an equal blending of avarice
and gold. It is the basest alloy known. Even the
supreme sovereign is only one-twelfth copper.
Love and silver form the combination that emits
the sweetest tone.
WHERE HE WENT TO.
SANCTIMONIOUS BUT E ARNEST PREACHER (to Sunday-
school class): “Next day he helped his mother,
like a good, little boy, and then went out to
play and was drowned in a waterhole. Now, my
dear young friends, where did that good child
go to?”
BILLY NOBBS ( from Big Scrub ): “He went to the bottom,
sir.” [26/7/’90.]
Love is to marriage - what illness is to death.
Those of a melancholy temperament sicken and
succumb most readily.
Some get married because they think it is the
best way to live. This is like the fasting man-
starving himself to earn his daily bread.
Some get married for a helpmeet. They are like
horses—they go best when well driven.
To many love is a state of slavery with jealousy
as overseer.
Although many say marriage is a failure, none
say love is.
There is only one thing better or worse than
marriage. That is Death. Yet those on the brink
of either cherish the same hope—the hope of a better
future.
A bride is wonderfully like a corpse. She is
clothed in white and “looks happier than she ever
did before.”
A scholar-wife is often like a china bulldog. Only
good for frightening friends.
Don’t marry a political gorgon. She holds on
her course like a tram-car. When you attract most
notice, then you are most like a dog barking in
front of it.
The church view of matrimony is like the keeper’s
view of the bear that was clawing the poor Frank-
fort woman to death. Too precious to be interfered
with.
Asking the reason why your wife is angry is
examining a blasting charge. It goes off. . There is
always safety in distance.
Those who agree upon everything before marriage
quarrel about nothing after marriage. This is
because love is everything before marriage nothing
after.
Some marry early, some late in life, others not
at all. Whichever you do, either of the remaining
two will seem preferable.
To marry a woman because she is clever is to pal
with the Devil.
Marrying in haste is to be a fish. You snap the
bait, and if you get a divorce the hook stops in
your jaw. Marrying deliberately is much the same
thing.
All the difference between marriage and death
is about two per cent. Ninety-eight per cent, marry,
one hundred per cent. die.
A Parisian firm of private detectives
announces its terms for procuring the neces-
sary evidence in divorce cases. There is
a uniform charge of 500 francs for securing
the conviction of a suspected wife, or 900
francs if they supply the lover. It recalls to
mind a little incident they tell about a case
—which, by the way, was patched up out of
court —in one of the Australian capitals. A
very festive gentleman in high official
circles, who had made a love-match with a
somewhat mature but (financially) charm-
ing widow, was unfortunate enough to
awaken the suspicions of his affectionate
spouse. She had an interview with a detec-
tive, and, with a lavish disregard of expense,
bespoke his closest surveillance. Less than
a fortnight later a cab brought the detective
to her door glowing with the pride of suc-
cess. Madame drove off with him, and in
a few minutes, after a little scuffle at a
door in —— street, was confronting her
delinquent husband and her rival, a fas-
cinating little minx who seemed to look upon
the surprise as rather a joke. It was too
much for the injured lawful wife. With
brandished claw she sprang to the assault,
and the “creature” was in imminent danger
of sustaining much damage to her mere-
tricious beauty when the detective inter-
fered, and, pulling back the infuriated
matron, excitedly whispered: “For goodness
sake don’t hurt her! That’s my wife!”
When David Buchanan contested Balmain
at the N.S.W. general election last year the
polling-day was a Saturday; and as David
had to appear in a case before Bathurst
Assize Court on the Monday morning, he
did not wait for the result of the
polling. As he stepped out on the
platform at Bathurst the first news that
greeted his ears was that Saddler Paul
had beaten F. B. Suttor by an
odd 50 votes. “Frank Suttor
out!” ejaculated the veteran,
rough-speeched as usual; “I
always had ma doots as to
whether ye had mair fules than
wise men here. Now I know
th’ fules are ahead!” “Surely,
Mr. Buchanan,” ventured to
remonstrate a mild-voiced Free-
trader, “men are not necessarily
fools because they differ from
you and your party?” Buchan-
an’s cocksuredhess responded
with “Dom ye, what else should
they be?” Later on he strolled
to the telegraph office for par-
ticulars of the metropolitan
elections. As the messages
came through for the local press
the representatives quoted the
figures to David and another
legislator. When the Balmain
return arrived the newspaper
man noted that Buchanan was
amongst the slain, and was
concerned at having to com-
municate the intelligence. With
unerring shrewdness the old
man read his hesitation, and
exclaimed: “That’s from Bal-
main? I’m oot, then?” “Yes,”
replied the pressman. There
was a momentary pause in the
buzz of conversation that filled
the outer office, and the silence
was not broken except by the
“click, click” of the instruments,
till David spoke again, “Wecl,”
he said in a voice in which
there was just the least shake of
emotional tremor. “I suppose
I’ve had ma last fling at Harry
Parkes!” [3/5/’9o.]
“To wear silk stockings and be able to
afford a lavish use of rose-water in my bath
—that is my idea of luxury!” said a little
woman the other day, pausing before a win-
dow where silk stockings were strung in
dazzling, rainbow-colored lines. Look, sigh
and pass on, little woman, if you are not
rich. Silk stockings are as far beyond your
reach as the fruit which nodded above Tan-
talus. It is easy enough, if you have a
moderately well-filled purse to take rose-
flavored baths, for the cost is but trifling;
but silk stockings are the most extravagant
things in a woman’s outfit. The softer the
silk and the finer the web, the sooner holes
and shapelessness; and when once the
foot is worn the remaining lengthy and
perfectly good leg of the silken hose is
useless —except perhaps as a powder rag.
Black holds its own still, either of the solid
color or with pink or yellow toes. Those
in drawn work of exquisitely delicate pat-
terns are very expensive. A pair of deli-
cate salmon pink, with a black-pointed pat-
tern to show above the shoe-top, were 375.;
"a yellow pair, the instep covered with tiny
black-and-white stars, were. 30s. And one
in silvery grey, the threads drawn in alter-
nate broad and narrow stripes, for the same
price. All of these were of extraordinary
length. [l9/4/’9o.]
When the Maryborough (Vic.) rush broke
out Julius Vogel [afterwards Premier of
Maoriland] was running a druggist’s shon or,
rather, tent, on Ballarat.. As in those days
Julius was a tolerably-sized rolling-stone,
he was for going off to the diggings at once,
but could not for some days find a purchaser
for his pills, black draughts and sticking-
plaster. Ultimately he went to an opposi-
tion chemist, S. B. Clemes, who, as secre-
tary to the mammoth Wimmera United
Water Trust, now bosses half the Wimmera
district—and offered the whole concern at a
valuation. Clemes accepted the proposition,
and proceeded-to investigate the stock. He
found it such a heterogeneous collection of
compounds unknown to the pharmacopoeia
that he said at last: “Wherever did you
get all this stuff, Vogel?” “Bought it,”
laconically replied the future Premier. “No
chemist,” went on dunes, with an emphasis
on the word, “would have purchased this
rubbish.” “Just so,” said Vogel; “I don’t
AN ILLUSTRATED CRIME REPORT.
“At Sydney Quarter Sessions, Samuel Rose was indicted for stealing 10 ladies’ companions.”
[18/6/87.]
[A “lady’s companion” in the ’eighties was a small basket or cabinet containing
needles, thimble, scissors , etc.]
think any chemist would. But then nobody
but a damned fool would ever take me for
a chemist.” Twenty-odd years subsequently
Clemes happened to be in Melbourne on
municipal business bent, at a time when
Vogel (then Sir Julius) took the Yarra vil-
lage en route for the stepmotlier-land. Sam
called on Vogel at Menzies, and after a chat
about old times asked the great man if he
recollected the above little incident. Vogel's
memory was quite fresh about it. He said,
“By the way, Clemes, did the death-rate
diminish much when I lett the camp,
[3l/5/’9o.]
—: ~ i
In the old days the gentleman who is-now
Sir George Inncs, Justice of the N. S. Wales
Supreme Court, was no end of a horseman,
and used to ride his own nags in races over
the steeplechase coiirse on the fiat at the
back of where Arncliffe station now stands,
His father, Captain Innes, though lie had
unfortunately lost one leg, was also a good
rider. When the first elections took place
he was riding on the racecourse, as Hjile
Park, Sydney, was .then called, when the
crowd hedged him into a corner, and to
escape them he had to put his liorse at the
high fence, which he took m great style. It
was at the same election that the crowd went
to a butcher’s shop standing at what is now
Kidman’s Corner, and commenced to pull
the verandah down. One fellow had hold
of a post assisting to wrench it out, when
a woman came out with a cleaver and calmly
cut off four of his fingers. . Next day an
advertisement appeared, saying that if the
person who lost four fingers called at suck-
and-such an address they would be returned
to him. [2l/6/’9o.]
OF THIS CITY.
O, to mix in my soul this city,
That lies with feet in the fairest waters,
This young, unformed Australian city!
In the harbor’s arms the isles, her
daughters,
Dream all day . in a perfect sleep.
O, to hold in my heart those waters,
Flowing east with the sun behind them,
Through great gates to the outer deep!
Where, O Earth! is a fairer city
Than this by night, when the quay’s half-
circle,
Lit up like some old Italian city
With a hundred shades of red and purple,
Lights the dusk of the city’s face?
Half the night, to the gleaming circle
Boats glide in with their own lights shining—
Not the stars know a fairer place.
Ah. the mist on the moonlight city—
The sky-spun moonlight, half-light, half-
darkness,
That wraps the walls of the seaward city,
And swathes and softens the high spires’
sharpness!
Ah the sweet of the wave-washed town!
Subtle city of wrong and darkness,
Young, but tireless in evil-doing—
One soul aches for your high renown.
O, to sing of this little city i
A true, strong song that no years can
weaken!
A song that tells how the sea-girt city
Cast her light o’er the seas, a beacon
Seen and sought by the far-most sail—
Made a name that no years could weaken;
Fought a way to the fore of nations,
All lands owning her vast avail!
LOUISE M. MACK.


REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on March 31 last, and the Troth and Loss
.Account tor the year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The Net Profit after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £193,681/14/- for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, ' "
Amounted to
Add Balance brought forward from previous year
Making available
From this sum the following appropriations have been mat
interim Dividend of 9 per cent, per annum paid in
30° y i93o' £<>r Gl< ' Half-Year ended September
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account
(making it £3,300,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises
And it i.s recommended that a Dividend be paid on the
vr° ‘? n o on thc £S shares for the Half-Year ended
Carry forward
£724,112 14 11
Mr Epf ftif ar i the Bank suffered the loss by death on October 16, 1930. of
from IQA7 K f ly ' 'Y as a director of the Colonial Bank of Australasia, Limited,
two Bo'nl-c SPicmq* Chairman of that Bank's Board from 1914 until the merger of the
fZn ~ ank V 19£S - H IS service with the two Banks in the capacity of a Director there-
fore covered a period of twenty-three years.
j! a . (l wid P business experience, particularly in Mining and Pastoral affairs,
a source of regarded for his st, ‘ rli »S personal qualities. His demise was
New T ßraSs ß 4 S ?e ai o%nfd7— remlSeS Wer ® completed durin S the year > a » d thc following
Buiversity (Sub-Branch), previously an Agencv.
M ESTERN ALSTRALIA: West End (Sub-Branch), St. G eorge’s Terrace.
And Branches closed during the year were:—
, Mentone > North Essendon (Sub-Branch).
QUEENSLAND: Maryborough.
SOUTH' AUSTRALIA: Riverton.
NEW SOUTH WALES : Euston.
I on(1011° Bank lias now Branches and Agencies in Australia and 2 Branches in
Por.S e w?fa !, A a m y G o a, ' i ;?i r A n, }" al ¥ eeting will be held in thc Board Room at the
Banks Head Office 2<l-2<9 Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, May 27. at noon,
when the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors.
wH-WPo ® arke . rand Mr H - M Strachan retire by rotation in accordance
candidates tides of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other
tv vJ 1 .? fleeting will be asked to confirm the action of the Directors in appointing Mr.
wmi 01 i AU'-, to the casual vacancy caused by the lamented death of Mr. Bowes
Kelly, already referred to.
TO .v Th V Sh “^? l ? erß T» l yi, ,]l also caded upon to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing
reappointment' ° m Bls 109 and Warnock, the retiring Auditors, are eligible for
By Order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.,
Melbourne, May 14, 1931.
E. H. WREFORD,
Chief Manager.
BALANCE SHEET
OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
AT MARCH 31, 1931
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO
Shares fully
paid up .. £2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8
Shares paid up
to £ 5 per
Share .. 3,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fu n d
Account .. 3,300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss
Account .. 310,112 14 11
£B,-649,112 14 11
Notes in Circulation.. .. .. 47,827 0 0
Bills in Circulation. > .. . > 238,061 18 1
Government Deposits'—
Not bearing
Interest .. £236,687 9 3
Bearing Inter-
est .. .. 325,908 18 5
£562,596 7 8
Other Deposits—
Not hearing
Interest . . 9,827,849 1 6
Bearing- Inter-.
est .. .. 22,915,631 12 9
£32,743,480 14 3
T , * 33,306,077 1 11
Interest Accrued and Rebate on
Current Bills 427,215 0 0
Balances due to other Banks . . 359,543 13 9
... £43,027,837 S 8
Contingent Liability, as per contra, in regard to
obligations of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit and Guarantees, £1,010,518 13s. 9d.
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r alian
Notes and
Cl a s h at
Bankers ..£6,453,262 13 4
Govern ment,
Municipal and
other Public
Stocks, De-
bentures and
Funds .. 1,773,859 5 5
Bills and
Rem ittanees
in transitu.. 1,480,720 0 4
Notes and Bills
of other
Banks . . 90,482 12 10
Balances Due
from other
Banks .. 98,146 12 2
Duty Stamps 41,204 5 2
£9,937,675 9 3
Real Estate, consisting oi Bank
Premises 1,217,844 5 11
Other Real Estate . . . . 133,815 17 7
Bank Furniture . . . . .. 67,096 11 10
Bills Discounted and Other
Advances, exclusive #f provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts.. 31,671,405 4 .1
£43,027,837 8 8
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters'
of Credit. Drafts and Guarantees, as per contra,
£1,010,518 13s. 9d.
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Expenses at Head Office, 340
Branches and 124 Agencies ..£841,868 14 6
„ Income, Land and Note Taxes . . 193,681 14 0
~ Interim Dividend . . .. 225,000 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 0 0
„ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account . . 50,000 0 0
„ Balance 349,112 14 11
£1,759,663 3 6
P>y Balance brought
forward ..£412,907 2 11
Less Dividend,
May, 1930 . . 250,000 0 0
£162,907 2 11
~ Gross Profits, including Recover-
ies, less Rebate on Bills Current,
Interest, Accrued on Deposits,
Repairs to Premises, Rent, etc. 1,596,756 0 6
£1,759.663 3 -5
Dr.
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Balance
, £3,300,000 0 C
£3,300,000 0 0
By Balance Brought Forward ..£3,200,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and
Account . . . . . . 100,000 0 0
£3,300,000 0 0
The customary Auditors' Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to complv with
the Companies Act (Victoria) appears on the Official Report
E. H. WRRFORD. Ohipt M,.,,,,,- -
The Baron.
JOHN H. M. ABBOTT
TELLS A CHARMING STORY THROWING
FURTHER LIGHT ON THE INTERESTING CHARACTER AND
■ CAREER OF GOVERNOR MACQUARIE.
THE Baron Augustus You Big lived to a
ripe old age, and although he served
under the Duke of Wellington in the
Peninsula, I myself can remember him very
well indeed, having been an intimate friend
and companion of the fine old warrior for
at least two years before his demise at Parra-
matta in 1890, when he was in his hundredth
year. I myself was not quite so ripe, for I
was a boy at The King’s School; but never-
theless, and in spite of the disparity of age,
I was admitted to the enjoyment of an inter-
course to which I always look back with
pleasure and interest.
An impressive old man was “the Big
Baron,” as he had been called since Mac-
quarie s time, though when I knew him he
was a white-whiskered, wizened old fellow
who only left a wheeled chair each afternoon
at four o’clock to retire to his bed. He had
very bright blue eyes, which had faded a little
in color, under bushy white eyebrows, a
shining intellectual forehead half-hidden by
a black velvet skull-cap, and a voice that
tried to be gruff, but degenerated into occa-
sional squeakiness when he became excited.
Heartiness and geniality were the charac-
teristics of his old age, accompanied by a
whimsical kindliness that must always have
been his way through life. He joked with
vast appreciation of his own jokes, philoso-
phised with charity to all men and women—
particularly towards the women—and always
gave me a feeling that whatever he remem-
bered to recount of his earlier days was
simply and unaffectedly truthful. Since then
it has been. my good fortune and exaspera-
tion and delight to meet with many venerable
liars, and I have learned to judge the
measure pf their reliability pretty efficiently,
but, looking back, I am quite sure that “Mr.
Augustus,” as he sometimes referred to him-
self when in reminiscent mood, was never
one to exaggerate or to remember things
that had not happened.
My introduction to the old gentleman had
not been auspicious of the pleasant relations
that were to exist in the future between us,
for I had been caught by his gardener,
Michael Costello—who hated the grey uni-
form _ and essential Protestantism of The
King’s School as matters of principle—-
whilst engaged with others of my kind
in raiding the Baron’s orchard at Castle
Inll. My companions had retreated before
I became aware of “Red Mick’s” baleful pres-
ence at the foot of the peach-tree I was in-
vestigating, and I was his only captive. He
led me by the ear into the Baron’s presence,
and demanded the privilege of administering
the beating he claimed for me. The old man
frowned at me from his big chair, but there
was a twinkle in his bright eye that gave
me hope.
“My poy,” he said, “what iss your name?”
I told him.
“Acli, then, Shon,” lie said gravely, “you
haf been ropping me, eh?”
“Please, sir, no,” I said. “I hadn’t eaten
a single peach.”
“Y’r Highness,” interrupted the detest-
able Costello, “mebbe ho hadn’t, but luk at
th’ soogie-bag th’ young divil had up th’
tree wid him. He'd ha’ tuk half a hundred
of ’em, if I hadn’t tuk him. ’Tis a lickin’
lie s airnt an’' ’tis mesilf’ll be afther givin’
him a good batin’, wid y’r honor’s lave.”
“Ach, no, I think not, Michael. Leave
him here, and go away. I will show him
the wrong he has done. That will do,
Michael.”
Grumbling, the red Irishman departed, and
the old gentleman immediately became
friendly and confidential. ITc told me to
stand close beside him, and, when I
approached, took me by one side of my tunic
with a bony hand, whilst he wagged the fore-
finger of the other in my face.
“Shon,” he growled—but he was smiling—
“you are a pad poy to rop an old man like
me. But you are a soldier, and offer haf I
lofcd soldiers. Sit down and talk to me, and
I will tell you how I used to rop peoples,
long ago, in Portugal and Spain. Then, per-
habs, I will give you to Michael Costello.
I la, ha —I think no, eh? Eh —what? You
young rascal!”
Going on for eighty years before, the old
man had been an assistant-commissary
during the Peninsular War, and that after-
noon, instead of being beaten by Red
Mick, I enjoyed the first of many tales which
he delighted to tell me—some of them, I fear,
not quite the sort of stories suitable for a
boy of thirteen. He was a Hanoverian of
the lesser nobility—“ray poy, Parous are
shcaji in Hanover”—had been an ensign in
the German Legion which served with the
British army in Portugal and Spain, and.
obtained an appointment in the civil depart-
ment when it was found that lie had a
peculiar genius for attending to the commis-
sariat needs of cavalry regiments. Inciden-
tally, lie had been “a bit of a lad” —“a devil
with the frauleins,” as he put it himself,
though it_seemed to me he was an even worse
devil with the fraus. This little extract
from his unpublished memoirs—out of which
I propose presently to tell you a tale of
Governor Macquarie—reveals the Baron’s
quality in these respects, and you may gather
something of what the youthful commissary
was like. Il'e was only a little more than
t wenty in those days, and very big and hand-
some in a florid and blonde fashion, as a con-
temporary portrait of him in uniform used
to enable me to realise.
“In Olite,” he writes, “I had plenty of
love affairs. In the first place, there were the
Donnas Francisca and Stephania from
Seville, the daughters of a wealthy land-
owner, who were very responsive. Then in
Lieutenant Backer’s house there was a hand-
some beauty who was the w’ife of a Spanish
Colonel, and who took no pains to conceal
her attachment to me. I also had a pretty
girl who paid me many visits; and finally
the legitimate spouse of an organist, who
always availed herself of her husband’s
duties in the church in order to come to
me, I therefore had plenty of variety.”
For forty years have I had those old
journals of Baron Augustus Von Big's, and 1
for nearly all that time have I been content
to regard them as being merely wonderful
examples of copperplate caligraphy that were
somewhat touching mementoes of my early
acquaintance with the fascinating old man
who had been writing them all his long life.
Had they been done in French, I might
have “discovered” them before, but I have
no German, and it was only when I showed
them to a friend who is a schoolmaster, and
allowed him to borrow a few of them for his
entertainment, that I realised what a I
legacy “Mr. Augustus” had bequeathed to
me. Some day, perhaps, if I can persuade
my friend to do the translating, time may
be found to make a book out of them— 1
though they will need some expurgating. Of
course, the earlier volumes about Wellington
and the war are intensely interesting, but
those which date from 1817, when the Baron
came to Sydney, are extraordinarily enter-
taining comments on the Australia that our
generation only knows from hearsay and the
printed word.
He left them to me in his will, with his
blessing and £5 —and it makes me shudder,
almost, to think that I might have died un-
aware of all they contain. However, I do
not wish to review them here after the
manner of the Red Page, so will illustrate
them to you by extracting the story of his
Excellency Governor Macquarie, the Baron
Von Big, and Mrs. Emily Prothero, grass
widow of Captain John Prothero, of H. M.
48th Regiment of Foot, whilst he endured
exile on detachment duty at Port Dalrymple
in Van Diemen’s Land.
I may explain, however, that these memoirs
are not actually diaries, but appear to have
been written two or three years after the
events related in them occurred. Indeed,
the Baron once explained to me that such
had always been his method of making a !
chronicle of the days of his life. He said;
that he was better able in such a fashion
to reduce facts to focus, and arrange his
narrative in a proper perspective. So here
we are. What follows was written some-
where about 1822, and has to do with inci-
dents that occurred in the year 1819.
“While on the subject of Major-General
Macquarie and his recent departure from the
colony, I am reminded of a diverting incident
which occurred some little time ago, in
which I myself, without wishing it, became |
involved. 1 have referred previously to the
pleasant relations I had succeeded in estab-
lishing with the lovely and amusing Mrs.
Prothero. who, though amorous to a fault,
never allowed cloying sentiment to debilitate
the appetites of her numerous lovers. She
could be kind to many, but was languishing
to none, a virtue in any woman of much
merit. Uncharitable creatures of her own
sex might regard her as a wanton, but in my
opinion she was merely prodigal of charms in
whose appreciation she delighted. Besides,
she was a lady with red hair, and I have
often observed....
“It had been unfortunate that my associa- j
tion with this seductive female had led me
into that regrettable scene with her husband
in the messroom of the 48th, a distasteful
episode to which I have already alluded as
the talk of Sydney for some weeks. But I ;
have never been able to endure having my i
nose pulled—unless it was by one of those j
fair and playful lovebirds from whom Ij
could subsequently exact recompense of »
sort they were not unwilling to afford —so
that my meeting with Captain Prothero
behind the marshes of Ruskcutters’ Bay was
entirely unavoidable. I think, however, that,
having stood the injured husband’s fire with-
out returning it (I have mentioned before
how I demonstrated my ability to have ren-
dered him hors de combat, had I so desired,
by throwing a clod of earth into the air and
scattering it with the pistol-ball 1 had re-
frained from projecting into his carcase),
the matter should have been allowed to sink
into oblivion. But such was not the case,
for the commanding officer of the battalion,
Lieutenant-Colonel Erskine, was at some
pains to convince me that my presence in the
mess was not desirable to him, and, of
course, being a gentleman, I was compelled
to take a hint that had been given broadly—
lie had informed me at Government House j
of his regrets that I had decided no longer
to visit the barracks —and to cut myself off
from the pleasant and agreeable military
society to which my early adventures had
accustomed me. The gallant colonel, without
doubt, was quite entitled to the attitude he
chose to take up, and far be it from me to
dispute his right to decline my company, but,
to say the least of it, such an attitude was
unfair to his brother officers. However, as I
am about to relate, this so undesirable ‘cold
shoulder,’ as the English have it —thanks to
my presence of mind and the good sense of
Governor Macquarie—was not presented to
me by the officer commanding the 48th for
very long, and in a few weeks’ time I was
again free of the company of those good
fellows in George-street, both in the anteroom
and at the dinner table of the corps of officers
over which Mr. Erskine presided with so
much dignity and ability. This, I need hardlv
say, gave me very lively satisfaction. Cap'-
tain Prothero went to Van Diemen’s Land,
and the pretty Emily became as generous
as before this untoward affair had blown a
little breeze of scandal upon her name and
my own, though she was wisely careful to
exercise a better discretion.
“On a September morning in the year T 9
I rode down into the vale of Parramatta
designing to breakfast at the Woolpack Inn
and continue my journey to Sydney .subse-
quently, so that I might arrive at head-
quarters a boat noon. It was a most glori
ous morning when I left the town behind me
soon after nine o’clock, and the bush by the
roadside was fragrant with golden mimosa
the birds sang sweetly in the trees, the mare
I bestrode was the best pacer in my stables
_(Continued on next page,)


SWOLLEN JOINTS
That’s kidney
trouble
'~v~*
wm
y
r
m&m-
/
V s *
m
l
.1
m
a
Invaluable In all cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
BACKACHE, LUMBAGO
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of Kidney
and Bladder Trouble
Start taking
De Witt's Kidney and
Bladder Pills NOW.
Your day’s work will
be a pleasure and your
spare time pleasures
will be doubled. No
more sallow, spotted
complexions, no more
sleepless nights, no more
chronic pains in the
joints and muscles, no
more agonising stabs
in the back. Try just
one bottle of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder
Pills and prove this in
your own case. You
will never regret it.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of dreadful rheumatic pains*
chronic pain at night-time when trying to rest, if you find limbs and joints
swollen, knuckles becoming pe* Laps too hard to move that is, if your blood
is being poisoned with excess of uric acid, this doctor-recommended remedy
will end your pain and suffering and bring back youthful vigour and vitality.
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved infallible
in the relief of rheumatic conditions. They give instant relief, and their
effect can be seen in 24 hours. This we guarantee.
RHEUMATISM
with its terribly agonising day and night pain will be a thing of the past.
Backache, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble will be quickly
banished, never to return, if you will give this remedy a trial. A shod
course with De Witt’s Pills, thousands of one-time sufferers will tell you,
will quickly rid your system of pain-giving poisons and make you splendidly
fit and well.
Remember, you purchase your supply of De Witt’s Pills on satisfaction
or money-back conditions. Every chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills at 3/6. Take two of the pills when you go to bed—in the
morning you will see and feel their wonderful effect. Persevere, and you
will end crippling pains for good. Do not let rheumatism make your life 3
misery, get your supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills now. There
is no need to waste money on unknown preparations, dangerous and heart
exciting drugs. Go to your chemist and ask his personal opinion of DeWm a
Kidney and Bladder Pills—the remedy with the prescription printed on the
box. He knows all the ingredients and can tell you they have been
specially for the purpose of driving from the body pain-giving poisons, an
to build up vigour, health and vitality.
De WITTS
&XLD
and I was twenty-six years of age—young,
strong, good-looking and well-dressed—so it
may easily be supposed that I was in high
spirits and full of rejoieings in the very
function of living. My affairs were in good
order, and I had no business worries,
The estate of Pampeluna at Castle Hill—
I had so named it in recollection of the
Pyrenees, and of the only woman of the
many I have loved who ever treated me
with cold disdain —was in excellent order,
and the cattle-run I had recently stocked on
Bathurst plains (a grant from Governor
Macquarie in recognition of my former mili-
tary services to England) was prospering
and paying. Mr. Augustus had no reason
to be displeased with himself- —nor was he.
Quite the contrary. He has always had the
gift of being pleased with himself —always.
A most fortunate characteristic for any man
to possess.
“I had passed Clay Creek, and was not
very far on the western side of Dr. Went-
worth’s estate of Homebush, when, riding
round a bend of the road, I came suddenly
upon a mounted soldier of the Governor’s
bodyguard, who presented his carbine and
bade me come to a halt. But almost imme-
diately the man recognised me, and, mutter-
ing an apology about bushrangers, reined back
to allow me to pass. And then I became
aware of Governor Macquarie’s travelling
coach standing in the middle of the road on
three wheels, whilst a blacksmith from Dr.
Wentworth’s and the other dragoon of the
escort tinkered with the fourth, whose felloe,
it seemed, had split, and thus brought the
cavalcade to a standstill, llis Excellency
himself, very stiff: and erect, stood with
folded arms in . the shade of a tree by the
roadside, with a most stern and forbidding-
expression in his countenance, which I was
at a loss to account for —though not for long.
“I rode up to the Governor and saluted
him, to be scowled at fiercely and have my
salute returned with pronounced coldness.
“ ‘Good morning, your Excellency,’ I said
ingratiatingly, taking no notice of his appa-
rent displeasure. ‘I hope and trust that no-
thing serious has happened?’
“ ‘Damme, sir, no!’ I had never heard
Mr. Macquarie indulge in strong language
before, but he pulled himself together, and
continued apologetically, and, it seemed to
me, a little nervously and with some embar-
rassment, as though he had something to
conceal. ‘Ah, my dear Baron, so it is you !
A wheel has broken down, but one of the
troopers fetched a man from Dr. Wentworth’s
who says he can repair it. No more than a
trifling delay. Oh, damn it all!’
“He was glaring at the coach with a look
of the utmost disgust upon his plain but
expressive features. Startled, I turned in
the direction of his gaze. To my vast and
amazed astonishment I saw, framed in the
window, the saucy, laughing face of Mrs.
Prothero. Herself and no one else. She was
smiling and beckoning.
“ ‘Oho,’ remarked ‘Mr. Augustus’ to ‘the
Baron von Big’— ‘Olio!’
“The look of Mi*. Macquarie was one of
such consternation, anger, misgiving and dis-
tress as I have seldom observed in any human
countenance. And when my dear Emily
greeted me with a trill of laughter and the
very worst thing she could have said, his
mahogany countenance —he had become very
sunburned in India —turned to a brick red.
He removed his undress cap and rubbed his
hand wearily across his brow, to brush back
his shock of hair from his eyes, and I thought
of a growth of ivy clinging to the battle-
ments of some rugged ruin. He had a strong
face, but it was not comely.
“ ‘Oh, my dear Augustus,’ cried the fair
Prothero. ‘The Governor and I wrecked on
the road! He, he —te, he, he! Oh, what
would dear John say? You must be very
discreet, Baron —very discreet! Our repu-
tations are in your hands. Oh, dear me!’
“For a moment his Excellency could say
nothing. He looked so pitifully at me, and
then so angrily, that I well-nigh trembled,
despite the fact that a fountain of laughter
was bubbling in my breast which it needed
all my inward control to keep below my
throat. I hardly knew what to do, nor did
I dare tp catch the Governor’s ‘’eye, lest I
should have exploded. With a trembling
hand I offered his Excellency snuff, though
I was jvell aware that he despised the habit.
However, it was necessary to do something.
I could not trust myself to speak. Pre-
sently, in a hoarse voice, as he took me by
the arm and led me awav from the carriage,
he said imploringly:
“ ‘Great God in Heaven, Baron, what the
devil shall I do?’
“ ‘Why, my dear General,’ I said, pur-
posely misunderstanding him, ‘since you ask
my advice, I should say do as most men
would, and thank the kind gods for such
good fortune. A charming woman! 1 con-
gratulate you, your Excellency. And pray
remember, sir, that I am a man of experi-
ence —I have great discretion.’
“The Governor gasped, and stopped dead.
His face had gone grey.
“ ‘Great Heavens, Baron, you cannot be-
lieve that I —that I have arranged this
affair?’
“ ‘I give your Excellency every credit for
your conquest.’
“For a short wdiile he did not speak. When
he did there was a trembling eagerness in
his voice, almost as in that of one who begs
for quarter on the field of battle.
“ ‘Baron,’ he said, ‘it is not as you think.
I have had no designs at all in this unfor-
tunate affair. Purely an accident, sir—an
accident. Mrs. Prothero had been thrown
from her horse, and the horse had bolted
home to Sydney. I am driving to Parra-
matta, and find her on the highway, recover-
ing from her shock. Naturally I offer the
unfortunate lady what accommodation is in
my power, and’
“ ‘Who would not offer to accommodate
such a charming lady?’ I interrupted sym-
pathetically. The Governor looked as though
lie would wish to strike me dead.
“ ‘As I say, Baron, how could I help
myself? I had to offer her the use of my
coach. What else was to be done? And
then we had this breakdown; and then you
came. But, my God, Baron !’ He was star-
ing at me with absolutely frightened eyes —
this stern Highland soldier, this veteran of
Abercrombie’s, this warrior of Seringapatam.
Himmel, I was sorry for him !
“ ‘Well, your Excellency, when the wheel
is repaired, drive on to Parramatta then.
What else?’
« < Rqron » he murmured brokenly, ‘Mrs.
Macquarie’may arrive at any moment. She
to Parramatta with Major Antill.
No in? better sS knows the repu-
tation of that lady in the coach.’ .
“ ‘Well but, your Excellency, it will be
absolutely impossible for Captain Prothero
to call out the Captain-General and Cover-
nor-in-iChiief of this territory. Quite impos-
sible, your Excellency. ’Twould amount to
k* God, sir—but Mrs, Macquarie!
You know what women are—even the best
of them ’
“I was silent. It appeared to. me that the
man Lachlan Macquarie was in that sore
distress which it is the duty of all of us
to seek to alleviate when it threatens to
overwhelm any human being, however exalted
or however humble his rank. And an idea
gasped the Gover-
nor despairingly, and pointing up the road
in the direction of Sydney. .
“The dusty highway in this part of it
horseback! With* the
greatest presence of mind I made the pro-
posal which had come into my head.
“ ‘Sir,’ I said seriously, ‘this charming
lady whose society has been forced upon
you. by circumstance has done both of us
a little mischief—not. her fault, ot couise.
You have heard how I have suffered, your
Excellency?’
“ ‘Yes. yes, Baron. Pray lose no time.
“‘Well, then, will your Excellency, so
soon as you reach Government House at
Parramatta, sit down and write a note to
Colonel Erskine, requesting him to invite
yourself and myself to dinner in the mess
of the 48th at an early date, since we have
some reminiscences of the Peninsula which
we would like to discuss in his company?
Will your Excellency do this—and send the
letter by an express to the colonel?’
“ ‘Why, sir—why should I do this?’
“ ‘Because, your Excellency, I can take
Mrs. Prothero away, if you will be so kind.
Look, General, the Major and your lady have
begun to canter! They will arrive very
shortly.’
“The Governor glanced up the road. He
nodded assent. I sped to the carriage.
“‘Come, my Emily!’ I cried joyfully. ‘We
have done a good day’s work. Fly across
the road and into the bush. We will return
on my mare to Pampeluna. Wait until I
place myself and the mare so as to cover
your retreat. Nay, ask no questions—but
come. ,
“‘God bless you, Baron!’ said the Gover-
nor as I picked up the reins of my mare.
‘I shall not forget this.’
“I returned with Emily on the saddle
before me by a circuitous route to Pampe-
luna, avoiding the town of Parramatta. A
fortnight afterwards Colonel Erskine enter-
tained his Excellency and myself at dinner
S3 ffiXS
had you here, Baron !'
said the colonel as I took my leave at mid-
night.
“The grant of land of 500 acres which was
given to me at George’s River by Excel-
lency Governor Macquarie I named ‘Emily s
Grace.’ It is excellent pasturage, and I
never go there without reflecting upon the
chances of this life, and how tooiish it is
to neglect them.
The Happy Man.
If among women I have spent
More life than justifies th ’ event,
I shall abide the score, content
That I have had much merriment.
, .
Loud did I laugh when naked-born,
To trot upon the midwife s knee
The fairies blew their breakfast-horn
That time my mother suckled me.
Young was the inidwife; young I Low,
mother was: and long and fine,
Her body lay. .. . Hod made it so ..
Down the high bed that half nas e.
AndUaugbt and Itajd, where B
The brown oi pink. all pretty tnings.
Tla loved women through my life;
1 aa ve S|, t°S discover kind
man is , but a wi f e
To whcn ] am old and blind,
N.s.w.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Grief.
Not mine, beside a loved one’s tomb to stand,
A pallid waxen circlet in my hand,
Along an aching throat a string of jet,
Nor black-hemmed kerchief dripping, drip-
ping wet;
Not mine to sigh resignedly and say:
“The good God gave, the good God took
away.”
But mine to be so steeped in agony
That even death itself could never be
Ever so faintly sad again to me.
The chain of emeralds at my throat loops
down,
Brushing the gleamy surface of my gown;
My narrow feet are shod in rich brocade,
Buckled above the instep with rare jade;
My cupped white hands have felt the soft
chink, chink,
As golden coins piled in them, past the brink,
Spilling like saffron petals on the floor.
Not mine to stoop, but hold my hands for
more.
And yet am I so steeped in agony
That even death itself could never be
Ever so faintly sad again to me.
Mary, kneel at my feet! Nay, hold my hand!
You as a Mother-one might understand;
Might strive to lift one corner of the pall
Which lies about the future, dark’ning all.
Mother of God, no flashing, trembling spark
Lightens the lonely way! ’Tis dark, alls
As next a stricken heart I “crush each day
A little babe... .whose mind has gone away!
N.S.W.
SUSAN MILN.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in vour products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1, ''oo,ooo advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,591.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all S .ates or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Ote Kew Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
c emand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
offnial and "up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Che mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
- —is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “TEE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph**
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
0
0
„fV HAIR
fo NE ED
HERE§
wiu -
d
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be, protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can he done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
ZPOlLerts (.MEXICAN)
WcUnwt SitxLti
Removes the ore*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/6), 6d. being postage.
&
Discriminating Women
The World Over
Use
Cuticura
Soap
and
Cuticura
Talcum
Daily
Why Not Try Them!
Soap Ib. Ointment la. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W,
utiaira
rteOtCINAL
AND
coiLej-
c e
SV^
low m
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty„ Ltd., Mr. M. S. Allan, Mr. W. G. Dougan
1 3-75 Paterson Street, National Bank Chambers, Kembla Buildings,
Launceston. 271 Collins Street, Melbourne. Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, C.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 ihonths, 7/.
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
vf
&
(V.
0°
, S e V..
Al' (S 6 ®
.tf® 1 * 3 a <■
... s:-* .•- 's<'s*
.e^ 1 *** ..••■ <?c& 9


Split-Second Stewlina
mm
w>
XW^lifT
mp
#\
19
2
18
5
16
£
5
15
-3
6
14
7
13
'ss
s*r
8
12
\>
%
ss-
-9
/,
11
lO
ns
'm
vw
Ji/iiiiniliini'uW"
m
upp
:^^v,iCvUw.^:.. v .v
Jf/iis Winter, Use
PLUME
VACUUM OIL COMPANY. PINUP >p»
