

"Heres tae us! Whas like usf
Hi
I-I-
: . I
Sips
ll&rs v
■ -
4p.y
m
il^p
n
■ ■
M
i
ii
•>
■
M
wi
:\
\
■
fm
fgm
I
'I-I
i
; V;
III
I.: !
|§|l
ilsWffl
I'
-I
: • I'l
l;l
■
i
fm
tm
.
?Qip
4
ie 4
I'vll
:
i
!#ta
cHl
■
i
■ ■
A ■ : ■* ■
.............
D E WAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
setdg
Vol. 52.—N0. 2697.
Wednesday, October 21, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Freelaw
cc
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Boohlet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
M" Address ...
s.b. i3i
UYSAGHT?
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Real Book Bargains
BREASTED—-Ancient Records of Egypt, 5 vols.,
new, £6/10/- for 84/-
BURNS—-Centenary ed., 4 vols., new 50/-
CHAMBKR.S’ ENCYCLOPEDIA, latest, almost
new, 10 vols., cloth, ' £9/10/-
AUSTRALIAN ENCYCLOPEDIA, 2 vols., new,
45/.
“BULLETIN” —bound Vols. in half leather —
Oct., 1890-Dec.., ’9l, 30/-; 1892, 25/-; 1893,
25/-
R. L. STEVENSON, 10 vols., leather, 30/-
CHILDREN’S ENCYCLOPEDIA, 10 vols., cloth,
£B/8/-
TURGENEV—The Alan. His Art, His Age, 10/6.
BAI LEA'—-Magazine of Sports and Pastimes, 17
vols., 1860-1870, half leather, illustrated, 50/-
KTA-ORA COO-EE —Complete set of 10 numbers
of this rare item.
HL STORY SETS—Hanotaux (France), Gibbon,
Merivale, Froude,’ Thiers, Burton (Scotland)
and others.
STORY OF AUSTRALIA—6 vols., new, £2O for
50/-
ENGLISH AVATER COLOR—Special. Studio
number, colored, as new, half leather, 50/-
NATIONAL GALLERY in colors, vol. 1, 16/-
CRANE, W.—The Bases of Design, 8/6.
KEMP, P. —Alternating Current, Electrical
Engineering, new, 25/- for 15/-
DRElSER—American Tragedy, 7/6.
GALSAVORTHY—PIays, Ist coll, ed., 1929, 10/6.
THORNDIKE —-English Comedy, as new, 30 - for
19/.
AUSTRALIANA, CHOICE BOOKS, 1
FIRST EDITIONS, PHILOLOGY, \
ARCHEOLOGY, ETC. I
H. A. EVANS & SON,
available
BOOKSELLERS,
358 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(Xew amd Second-hand.)
WI
...enjoy the voyage
on, a, fast Matson
liner from Sydney
to • . •
NEW ZEALAND
The three and a half
day run to Auckland
is made enjoyable
with music...dancing
...varied deck sports
...movies. Meals are
justly famous...state-
rooms commodious
and immaculate.
Fares are moderate.
Early Sailing Dates
Oct. 27 Nov. 17 Dec. 8
Ask for Information
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON
LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel. 87981-3
MO-4A
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively brpadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
d
uvvy&ciC&s* ,
iSAczt SidxieJ,
$ Severn. ?KrCe4, rtzgeS feX
&A& S^trC^d.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES €3>
N : ill •/■'.■•■" -»:r
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
William Macleod
Macleod of “The Bulletin” (Angus and
Robertson; ss. 6d.) appears to have been
begun by Conor Macleod as a brief tribute
to her late husband’s work as an artist.
But she is a literary artist herself, and,
apart from the joy of writing of a loved
and lovable character, her subject was obvi-
ously too big for a sketch. She has written
a vivid little biography, decorated with
many reproductions of Macleod’s most
characteristic work. She first met him
with J. F. Archibald in 1899. Two years
later she joined The Bulletin staff. They
were married in 1911. Her studies of The
Bulletin office and its visitors do not ex-
tend far beyond her marriage, but she has
crammed a vast amount of information, and
sharp vignettes of scores of interesting
people, into the period covered. Anyone
who wants to know the real Archibald, as
distinguished from the Archibald who is
rapidly becoming a popular myth, will find
him here. You can hear his odd metallic
laugh and voice and see his; whimsical face
as you read her descriptions. One of the
many interesting features of the book on
the personal side is a reproduction of a
letter from Archibald, dated July, 1886, in
which he implores Macleod to join the
staff. There are many brilliant pen-pictures
besides that of the most picturesque editor
Australia has had, but they are all sub-
sidiary, of course, to the one of Macleod.
He stands forth very clearly as the shrewd,
kindly and generous Scot whom thousands
still remember with affection:—
If I were asked to name the outstanding feature
of my husband’s character in a' word I would say
“Simplicity.” You don’t often meet a man who
dares to be himself at all times, who has no vanities
or snobberies and who disdains to palter with the
truth. He was such a man. He wasn’t proud of
having emerged from poverty after the manner of
the nouveau riche of fiction : still less was he ashamed
of it. The remembrance only came to him, latterly,
in the presence of someone who had suffered as he
had, or was able to make him believe lie had
suffered. He would then do what was asked of
him, and justify himself, afterwards to me, if I
happened to find out, with some 'such phrase as:.'“l
would have been glad once if someone had helped
me.”
This book is more than a sidelight cast on
a sweet-natured being whom success didn’t
spoil. It is a contribution to the history
of an important cross-section of Sydney
during a vital era.
Modern America
In American Society (Macmillan; 12/6),
Charles Franklin Thwing, president of
Western Reserve University and Adelbert
College, has performed the feat of inter-
preting life in the U.S.A. between 1911 and
1930 without reference to prohibition, the
color or the labor problem. He is a patriot
with the fruity, bromidical style of a fash-
ionable preacher, and his desire to present
things in general, and his country in par-
ticular, in a favorable light makes his
indictments all the more impressive. They
go a long way to justify Mencken, Sinclair
Lewis and the Hollywood talkie plots which
are usually dismissed as libels. Congress
has passed 50,000 statutes since its first
session, and the legislatures of the 48 States
have also been busy, but “these statutes
are, as we know, rather broken than kept”:
Punishments for homicide in the vax’ious degrees
of guiltiness are peculiarly lux. Many murderers
never come to trial. More are let off with what
seem.to the layman to be peculiarly light sentences,
and more yet, or at least as many, are paroled after'
a brief term of good behavior in prison. Pew 'serve
out a term, and fewer are executed.
Impostors flourish:—
There is no country which suffers so many medical
quackeries and of a variety so diverse and pestiferous.
The race is a large one, indeed. Its birth is found
in the bogus medical schools which issue bogus
diplomas to consequent bogus doctors. It is en-
larged by the contributions of the pseudo-religious
cults.
Leisure, “a new product in and for
America,” is misused:—
The fine arts are represented in free verse, in jazz
music, in higgledy-piggledy architecture, in cubist
pictures and in irregular—in more than one sense
—dances.
And the political system is “beset with the
danger of the lessened ability of the mem-
bers of its law-making bodies”:—
By common confession the intellectual power of
the Representatives and the Senators was seldom, if
ever, of a lower order. Narrowness of intellectual
vision obtains. Selfishness, partisan or personal,
seems to be an atmosphere.
As a rule, though, Dr. Thwing is non-com-
mittal, and he doesn’t analyse. He deals
fairly exhaustively with the quota system,
but, though he explains its origin, he doesn’t
refer to the effects it is already having on
industry. The 1920 census showed that
many important callings—railway construc-
tion, market .gardening, mining, etc.—were
practically monopolised by immigrants.
The native-born,
even when unem-
ployed, spurn them,
and productivity
is suffering, now
that the foreign-
born are limited to
2 per cent, per annum of the number of
their nationals in the U.S.A. He refers to
“such outbreaks as occurred in Herrin,
Illinois, over labor troubles last year, and
such riots as suddenly burst forth in negro
lynchings,” and claims that they are “not
instinctive and are becoming more and
more exceptional.” Others equally quali-
fied to judge say that they must always
occur in a country which has nearly
11,000,000 negroes, and over twice as many
unassimilable whites and near-whites. Still,
this is an informative book within its
limits, and it has an appeal to Australians
by reason of the many interesting side-
lights it casts on local problems.
Truth About Broadmoor
Few worth-while books about gaol have
been written by ex-prisoners. Over 90 per
cent, of convicts in white British communi-
ties are sub-normal. Gaol fills most people
with a brooding self-pity which inspires
either a pathological hatred of authority
or a disposition to truckle to it. So the
typical criminal is worthless as a witness
from almost every angle. But the anony-
mous author of “Guilty, but Insane’' —
(Chapman and Hall, 7s. 6d.) is in no sense
a typical criminal. He took a first in his
tripos at Cambridge, served with distinction
in France, was badly wounded and com-
mitted his murder during a resultant-brain-
storm. His scholarly book contains an
eerily judicial account of his crime, arrest
and trial j (“Have you ever,” Mr, Justice
Rigby Swift asked the jury in his summing-
up, “heard a man give evidence more
simply and unemotionally, describing his
thoughts and actions like a scientific witness
speaking about somebody else’s case?”);
and he writes of Broadmoor in the same
vein. It is almost unbelievable that anyone,
much less a neurasthenic, should have pre-
served such serenity of spirit through so
much degradation and suffering. He dis-
pels some widespread beliefs about Eng-
land’s most dreaded prison. It isn’t all
misery. He was given a small room after
eight months’ good conduct. Then he was
assigned to a,farm working party—a coveted
privilege—and began to make friends,
Rutherford, the poisoner, was one:—
There was no patient better liked nor more re-
spected as a man ; none whose opinion was so often
sought or so unquestioningly accepted. “The Colonel,”
as the patients called him, was the unofficial Presi-
dent of the Community.. .. .Whatever view the world
may take, to one who lived and worked in daily
contact with him, he proved himself beyond denial
a white man; one on whose word, reliance could be
placed; straight, dignified, considerate of others;
urbane and cultured; a man of the world; in his
instinct and behavior primarily a gentleman.
The warders were “reasonable and kindly
men”; and this is how he writes of the
superintendent, who died shortly after his
release:—
He was the .doctor, first and last, never the prison
governor, much less the tyrant. A wide experience of
life in its more saddening aspects had left his eyes
open, but his humanity intact. In charge of a
community of criminals', some dangerous, many diffi-
cult, all neurotic, and saddled with excessive duties,
he could have pleaded good excuse for inaccessibility.
Instead, he came among us as a friend and counsellor,
aloof from none who had a reasonable, claim on him.
The value of the writer’s testimony is
enhanced by the fact that he is ' free of
Broadmoor for good; but, in any case, the
whole story bears the unmistakable stamp
of truth.
RED PAGE
A Submerged Theme
An author will sometimes give a book
two themes, one to face the world with
and one to satisfy something within him-
self. The second, consciously or uncon-
sciously, he submerges. And it is often in
this submerged theme that the power of
his story lies.
Green Memory, which was hailed with
interest and read with disappointment,
might come under this classification. It is
a novel of frustration, and by some strange
turn in the welding of it, it has become
a frustrated novel.
Why was it not made clearer; that the
real hero of the book was the man who lay
under the lilac-tree, dead by his own hand?
Carefully the story goes from character
to character, describing the reaction upon
each of this early calamity—the child who
came upon his body, and whose only escape
thereafter was self-created torment; the lads
whose schooldays were not as other boys’,
because of the overhanging of duty; the
daughter whose child was welcomed as the
re-embodiment of her father’s spirit rather
than as her husband’s son; Mrs. ■Haven,
whose character succumbed to reduced cir-
cumstances; and Lucy, who fought a losing
fight against disaster.
Suicide has its traditions. Cross-roads
burial and a stake driven through the heart
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE
Anthony Horderns'
Situated i
BLOCK 14, “The People’s Shopping Centre
offer these exceptional
rm
m
#■* ‘*3
l*!(l
-: W
PM
S 3
i-a
W#
•&>'
r
MANCHESTER
SAVINGS
Thrifty housewives! Hotelkeepers! Proprietors of Boarding-houses and those
economy-wise young persons collecting a box .... See here. Standard
Chester QUALITY-VALUES that are famous throughout the whole length and
pr essfessentials, bthf QUALITYSERVICE*iTreaI ECONOMY.
Replenish now! Here, indeed, are rare and wonderful savings.
Illustrated above left
DAMASK CLOTHS
Double Irish Linen Damask
Cloths with Serviettes to
match. High-grade quality
16/6
54 x 72
in assorted attractive designs.
Sizes, in 54 x 54 63 x 63
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each —
16/6 217-
Sizes, in 63 xBO 72 x 72
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each —
27/6 26/6
21/-
72 x 90
35/-
At left —
H and-embroidered
NAPERY
Madeira Napery on Pure Whit, lmh Linen.
Round. Oval.
Sizes, in. . . 8 6x12
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
1/6 1/9
Oval.
Sizes, in 16x24
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
4/3
Oval.
9x13
each —
2/3
Runner.
12 x 45
each —
8/3
Oval.
14 x 20
2/11
Naps.
12x12
21 /- doz.
Compare Quality for Quality and Price for Price
1/11 S.B. White
Sheeting 1/6
Single Bed White Sheeting.
Plain or Twill weave. Strong
and durable quality. 54in.
wide. Price, yard: 1/11, 2/4,
2/6, 2/9, 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special:
1/6, 1/11, 2/1, 2/3, 2/6
Col. Turkish
Towels - - 1/3
Colored Turkish towels!
Attractive designs in fast-
washing colors. Ideal for
either Surf or Bath. Sizes, ins.,
20 X 40 22 X 44 23 x 45
24 x 48 26 x 56
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each: 1/3, 1/6, 1/11, 2/3,
2/6, 2/11, 3/6
111$
Double Bed White Sheeting.
Plain or Twill weave. 80in.
wide. Dependable quality.
Price, yard: 2/11, 3/3, 3/6,
3/9, 3/11, 4/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, yard: 1/11 2, 2/6, 3/I,'
3/3, 3/6, 3/11
Sheeting
10/3 Hemmed
Sheets, pr. 7/11
Hemmed White Sheets.
Genuine value is offered in
every quality. Buy now!
Size 54in. x 90in.
Price, pair: 10/3, 11/9,
12/3, 13/-, 14/3, 15/3
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, pair: 7/11, 9/11, 10/3,
10/11, 11/9, 12/11
186 D.B.White
Sheets, pr. 14/3
Double Bed White Sheets.
Neatly hemmed and finished.
Each quality is genuinely re-
duced. Size 80m x 1 OOin.
Price, pair: 18/6, 21/-, 21/6,
22/3, 25/3
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, pair: 14/3, 17/6, 18/3,
19/9, 21/11
Pillow Cotton
per 1 /—«yard
Linen Finish Pillow Cotton.
A strong and reliable weave.
40in. wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, yard: 1/-, 1/1, 1/3,
1/5, 1/9
“HORDURA” SHEETS per pr.
"Hordura” Sheets. The high-grade Sheets are obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’. Every pair guaranteed. Famous for their long-
wearing qualities. Plain or Twill weave.
54 x 90, 63 x 90, 72 x 100, 80 x 100, 90 x 108 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, pair: 12/3, 14/9, 17/11, 20/9, 25/6
1213
23/6 Mattress Cases
Floral Damask Mattress
Cases! Colors are Blue
and Gold, Pink and Sil-
15/11
ver, Blue and Silver. Piped edges.
Sizes: Three-quarter Bed Double Bed
Price
23/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Prict
15/11
26/11
17/11
17/6 Mattress Cases at
1116
Floral Damask Mattress Cases. In shades of
Pink or Blue. Well and strongly made.
Piped edges. Sizes three-quarter bed
Sizes: Three-quarter Bed Double Bed
Price 17/6 ........ 18/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each
H/6 12/11
( Manchester, First Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
*24i
,
2/11 Coloured Towels
Colored Towels. Fawn
grounds, fancy colored
stripes. A very strong and
2/6
hard-wearing towel. Price, each .. 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price . . 2/6
Kitchen Towelling
per 1/5 Y ar d
Colored Border All Linen Kitchen Towel-
ling. Various qualities.
Widths, in 27 27 27
Anthony Horderns’ Price, yard:
1/5 1/6 1/9
Kitchen Towelling
per 1/2 yard
All Linen Kitchen Towelling. Keenly
priced! Widths: 25, 26, 27, 29, 36, 39.
Price, yard: 1/2; 1/3; 1/7; 1/9, 1/11;
2/3, 2/6, 2/11; 2/11
Turkish Towels
2/6
Large White Turkish Towels of heavy-
weight absorbent quality. Red head-
ing. Sizes 22in. x 46in., 24i‘n. x 48in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each:
2/6 2/11
4/3 “Osman” Towels
White "Osman” Towels at
greatly reduced prices. On
account of these Towels
2)9
being “Mill Seconds” they were secured
from the Manufacturer at a big discount.
Sizes, in., 22 x 45 24 x 45 24 x 49 27 x 5 1
Price .. 4/3 4/6 4/1 1 p/ll
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each—
-2/9 2/11 3/3 4/3
ď
đ
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, GJP.O.


guide
posts
To Better Motoring
iVr'f
Mil
m
UNION
MHMI
&
W
' ‘'ml-
?***•+* »ini ,«.»» i\i«< ;
WHITE
FLASH
WHITE
FLASH
UNION
s#
WHITE
FLASH
WHITE
FLASH
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
Super'Quality—No Extra Cost
Buy your fuel where you see the
familiar UNION WHITE
FLASH sign and you’ll go breez-
ing along as smoothly and
trouble-free as a bird a-wing.
UNION WHITE FLASH is the
amazing new spirit that takes
figures off your fuel bill and puts
them on your speedometer. Its
flashing pick-up sweeps you
ahead like a sprinter at the start-
ing gun. Its concentrated power
sends you purring over the steep-
est hills as though they were
level high-ways.
Remember : UNION WHITE
FLASH is sensationally better,
yet it sells at regular price. It
means extra mileage and super-
performance at less cost. Use it
always. Give your car a chance
to show you what it can do.
USE ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
The ONLY Pure Paraffin Base Motor Oil that COSTS NO MORE than ordinary oil
W.F. 16-62.


>*
Here’s an Intimate Subject!
Treated with startling frankness
Improper functioning of certain organs of the
body lead to ailments such as Constipation,
Bladder Weakness, Rheumatism, Headaches,
Backache, Neuritis, Piles, Indigestion, Blood
Pressure, Stomach Trouble.
Through faulty or partial evacu-
ation of the bowels, fragments
of food waste become encrusted
in the walls of the intestines or
colon. Cerms breed in this waste
and enter the blood stream, re-
sulting in dreaded self-poisoning
( autoxima ) caused through hid-
den constipation. These poisons
directly affect your physical
powers—sap your strength and
weaken your vitality.
DISSOLVE BODY POISONS!
Before youthful health can be
regained, this waste matter
must be flushed right out of the
system. The safe, easy way to
do this is to drink COLOSEPTIC.
It thoroughly dissolves and
washes out the decaying waste.
It rids the body of all poisons
through Nature’s four great out-
lets—the colon or large intes-
tine —the kidneys—the pores
of the skin and the respiratory
organs.
FULL OF VIM AND VIGOUR!
With the decaying crust re-
moved and the colon scrupu-
lously clean, pure blood once
again pulsates through your
veins, your energy is multiplied.
You are full of vim and vigour
—eyes become brighter—you
step more sprightly—body and
mind are keen —eager for work
or play. .You’re rejuvenised.
COLOSEPTIC is the answer to
the fears of middle-age!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
For your own benefit start tak-
ing COLOSEPTIC to-day. Send
now for the Special Demonstra-
tion Jar. Fill in and post the
coupon to-day.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY!
rtS
Regular Full-size lars, 5/71
All Chemists and Stores
(29)
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd.,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
had significance—they were the precautions
of simple faith that the spirit would not
live on, or return to torment the living.
Over suicide hung the superstitions of haunt-
ing and of the curse. We dispense in
these times with superstitions and customs,
but if it were stated that the Haven house-
hold were haunted and a curse lay on it,
would there be any real difference?
The clue is given in the last line. Lucy
has given in and taken the happiness which
she so long denied herself. On the night
of her wedding eve she wakes. “Lucy was
afraid. 'Richard,’ she cried, 'take me away,’
but Richard was no longer there. Her
father stood beside her, and her heart leaped
as it never had for Richard.... The other
was beside her still, and she knew now that
he would never leave her.” Their troubles
were not over. It was indeed a green
memory
It would be idle to speculate how far this
theme occupied the attention of the writers,
or whether or not it was to them the real
interest of the story, the reason for its
creation. The title of their novel shows
that it was in their minds. Possibly its
submergence is one of the weaknesses
of collaboration. Natural regret is height-
ened by the consideration that here,
despoiled and thwarted, is one of our too-
few Australian novels worthy of note.
For certain it is that the collaborators
have missed their opportunity of producing,
from splendid material, a powerful, emo-
tional novel. Their book, with its terrific
possibilities, becomes heavy in the hands.
Why did they obscure themselves to this
extent? Why did they fog their message?
C.L.D.
What Our Narrative Has
In “What Our Narrative Misses” (B.
30/9/’3l) Cecil Mann deplores the lack of
“aesthetic appreciation of life” in Australian
fiction. Our writers, he complains, evolve
no soul-shaking conflicts, and he quotes
Vance Palmer, Katharine Prichard and
Barnard Eldershaw as the pre-eminent
examples. Does he omit purposely Dorothy
Cottrell, whose Earth Battle has that rare
quality of humor which deepens the pathos
of the tragic figures that move across its
pages?
I am a bush woman, with some
little knowledge of the trials that beset
Dorothy Cottrell’s characters, and not one
of them is unconvincing to me. Surely no
one could call the simple folk in Earth
Battle “drab and earth-bound,” because
with them it is essentially the conflict that
matters. Unlike Dailey’s primitives, their
brutality and uncouthness are merely gro-
tesque, and not repellent, because they have
been evolved with sympathy and pure
humor. As for the atmosphere in Earth
Battle, it can be seen, smelt, heard and felt.
Dorothy Cottrell is uplifting, if not lofty.
Grandeur belongs to her theme, if not to her
treatment of it. The greatness of her lead-
ing man, the villainous old H. 8., is un-
deniable. His final exit is a sublime gesture
of the “victus invictus” type—much more
impressive than the fade-out of Palmer’s
squatter-egotist who became human to his
old retainer on the last page. And Sary
Strathmore—the epitome of frustration, and
courageous continuity of effort—is alone
worthy of immortality. The real Sary
Strathmores of the West are only too little
known. Then there are Sandy’s girl-wife,
Martha, not so savagely tragic yet with
infinite appeal; and Sandy himself and his
chum, and Donald, and Georgina, and all
the rest —a lovable company of lifelong
friends, with very human souls, if not
aesthetically immense enough to satisfy
Cecil Mann.
E. V. BARTON.
Convicts and Literature
It is only four or five generations since
Australia was a dumping-ground for the
criminals of the home country; a charnel-
house where freedom, comfort and ambition
were destroyed because they had no place
in convict life. From the first settlement
at Port Jackson it took over a generation
for the worst features of the convict sys-
tem to be wiped away; and two generations
had passed before Australia set her youthful
feet on the path to nationhood. It seems
to me that those two generations of intellec-
tual and physical misery have left traces
in the Australian character which are in many
ways responsible for the lack of creative
effort in this country. What were the im-
pulses which dominated the “society” of
the convict days? An overwhelming desire
for freedom from the iron discipline of
convict life, and for that comfort and
security which were conspicuously absent
from the early life of the settlements.
From the first years of the emancipation
the development of Australia turned with
almost fatal certainty into channels which
a modern psychologist might have forecast,
basing his views on the tendency to reaction
which is inherent in human nature when
repressive influences have been at work.
Life became a struggle for place and power.
Memories of the old days acted like an
unseen spur, and the oldest of the freed-
men generated in their sons an instinctive
desire to draw farther and farther away
from the gaol-tradition.
Memories of the convict camps did not,
of course, last in a definite and clear-cut
form, but they did leave an imprint on the
mind of the early generations which, fusing
with the newer sense of freedom in a wide
and spacious country, created a materialistic
conception of progress in which the objec-
tive facts of life—home, property, security,
power and position—were the dominant
notes. As time passed the memory of the
old grey years faded into mist, but from
the hidden depths where the forces which
go to the making of a national character
are constantly working along their strange
and unknown courses, there continued to
come an urge which was always towards
everything which represented the negation
of the olden times.
On our own generations the effect has
been to make Australia almost as objective
as America. The American longs for, and
puts his pride in, “things,” while the Aus-
tralian, though a little more subtle, is
equally engrossed in the externalities of
life. The whole trend of Australian history
has been towards the acquisition of comfort.
The fact that Australia is the most
“advanced” country in the world is not
based on fortuitous circumstance, nor even
on superior vision and capacity. It is due
to the dynamic impulse away from restric-
tion. Trades unions have pursued “better
conditions” hungrily and with an all-absorb-
ing passion; legislatures, societies and re-
formers all have directed their efforts to
this end, hastened on by an impulse of which
they are wholly unconscious.
Australians have never had time to think
about literature. That, I think, is the plain
moral of the story. That intuitive under-
standing of the spiritual forces of life, and
that communion with the immaterial things
of human destiny which is the spring of
great poetry; that sympathy with the nuances
and undertones of life which is the genesis
of great music, have never played a real
part in our national growth. We have
objectivised everything, judged everything
on the cold, level basis of material fact,
frankly engaging ourselves in the business
of living well.
Literature demands repose. Art is the
creation of leisure. Men must settle back
to watch the stars, as Shelley did; see
human beings through the eyes of a saint,
as Francis Thompson did; find ecstasy in
the song of a lark, as Keats did; see magic
in roses and beauty in the tides of the sea,
as Swinburne did—and translate these
things into hymns singing of human destiny.
All the influences of Australian life have
been away from leisure, contemplation and
repose; and to state the other side of the
equation is just a truism —Australia has no
literature.
On the whole I think we are justified
in feeling that these influences are coming
to have less and less power, and in so far
as that is true will Australian literature
begin to climb upwards. Sometimes, so
barren is our record, one has an oppressive
feeling that Australia is in the intellectual
eddy of a dying civilisation, and must
remain sterile. But when the Australian
intellect has shaken free of these old chains
then may we look for definite progress.
WARREN DAEREN.
A Satchel of Books
The Phoenix-Kind, by Peter Quennell
(Chatto and Windus ; 7s. 6d. net), has style,
wit, humor, observation —in short, almost
everything. Julian is the central figure—a
futile lad with a brilliant family reputation,
who falls down hard on the first big job he
undertakes, and straightway retires from the
struggle. It is his love for Virginia (a poor
thing at the best) that rises again “from
ashes of the old desire.” The defect of the
novel is a matter of the writer’s class and
period; the characters haven’t an illusion
or a strong emotion that they will own up
to amongst them. A notable effort, all the
same.
The Silver Flute, by Lida Larrimore
(Methuen; 7s. 6d.). Stephen, rich, attrac-
tive, sought after, but with hair which is
beginning to grey at the temples, meets his
godchild:—•
“You couldn’t be expected to recognise me,” she
lifted a pale face, set with dark, anxious eyes. “You
haven’t seen me since I was a baby being christened.”
“Of course I recognise you,” Stephen said gently.
“I would have known you anywhere. You are my
little fillette.”
But they don’t get married, though of course
Stephen falls in love with her. Young Bruce,
who sings to a guitar, is Mr. Right, and
when she tells kind, understanding Stephen
he realises that all is perhaps for the best.
A pleasant American love story with plenty
of well-behaved children and nice, affluent,
complacent grown-ups in it.
And a Little Verse
THESE I WOULD HAVE.
The place I would be living is a little
dwelling
Beside a mountain roadway that is cool
and green,
Where life is all of peace, and even winds
grow gentle,
And sunlight strokes the tree-trunks and
the grass between.
The thoughts I would be thinking are all
deep and quiet,
Lit up by shafts of laughter like a stream
at noon.
Sweet songs I’d have for singing, a brave
song to carol,
And, when the night fell softly, a soft song
to croon.
A mate I would have with me to trace
Beauty’s footprints
In starlight on the valley and the heavens
after rain ;
With kind eyes for loving and a heart rich
with living
In the wise ways of laughter and the true
■ways of pain.
And we would have for callers the tiny silver
raindrops
To patter up our pathway; and the breeze
would be our friend,
And gaudy solemn parrots, and little jolly
sparrows—
And the brooding, silent mountain caring
for us to the end.
QUEENSLAND.
D. L. WARAKER.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tcppo: Best we can do is to use those
that break new ground or are extra-forceful. The
others must go to their graves unsung.... H.W.:
Go on. “Pose” is too trifling; but it’s well done....
G.A.L.W.: Thanks, but that point has been made
already... .Lignum: You’ve got all the properties,
but you don’t make bright pictures with them....
YV.C.D.: Lush sentiment in five stanzas. Look out
for bush-fires in the summer... .C.M.8.: There is
some such reference in “Coal and Its Conflicts” —•
probably obtainable now at about 5s M.A.V.D.:
Sorry, not Bulletin verse G.M.: Well, frankly,
don’t think she’ll ever do anything with verse.
She has no sense of time... .K.K.: The
makings of a good thing. Doubt whether
the “thees” and “thys” improve it... .G.A.G.:
Have neither space nor inclination to criti-
cise ponies published in other papers—too many potes
of our own to keep in order... .E.R.E.; Trite....
J.W.: Well, if you insist: —
Boys and girls come out for a “hike,”
But don’t call it a “walk” for the love of Mike.
It’s just been discovered —it’s awfully smart,
And you need special clothes to dress up for the
part.
So let’s buy some jumpers and berets to wear,
And it might do us good to get out in the air.
. ...J.M.G.: An ordinary episode baldly told
M.V.S.: Yet another heroine won in a game of cards.
Do you really imagine the modern girl can be
won that way? E.A.F.: Same old spring thoughts
about racehorses.... Sheepo: You are overding it....
Leuro: Good; but “Revenge” grows too strident....
S.J.E.S.: Meaning glimpsed through a glass darkly.
Second-last line of sestet could stand revision
W. 8.: Room for the drama, anyway:—
“They’re up! They’re down, two heads,” says one,
A twinkle in his eye,
As he spied a burly copper
In a neighboring bush close by.
A desperate rush, a scramble,
The copper seeing red
As he held in his hand, not pennies,
But two blanky discs of lead.
....S. Plain: You’ve got it wrong. Things are dear
not because gold is dear, but because it is cheap—
you have to give away a lot of it to make a pur-
chase. Make gold dearer, and prices fall C.N.W.:
Much too long for this cot Frank B.: Glad to say
The Bulletin's circulation was never so g00d....
Black Swan: Afraid your muse won’t pay many
dividends. She’s just a plain, sensible woman—
would run a little corner grocery very well, we
should say J.D.H.: Not a shovelful in that claim
which hasn’t been through the shaker again and
again. But that’s a good third verse Bob P.:
“Sailor Song” too carefully and methodically reck-
less... .C.J.G.: Story in broad Scotch spoiled all
the benefit we got from Health Week... .E.M.H.:
No good your trying to teach a pressman anything
about borrowing... .D.N.N.: You let the cat out of the
bag too 500 n.... J.W.: A story should be something
more than a matter-of-fact description of a fight....
S.H.C.: Tony is on his way home... .L.M.: Too much
padding.... U.R.: Obscure towards the end J-K.:
Situation overworked.... Tosh: Precisely... .R.G.A.:
Funny in parts, but the fun petered 0ut....W.C.:
Not interested in study of person in throes of
sea-sickness... .H.W.T.: Crude, confused, and in
patches offensive... .C.G.: Lacks spontaneity....
R.W.: Far-fetched C.H.H.: Writing about absent-
minded people you cost us 4d. for deficient postage.
. ...A.M.D.: Inflictions, both. .. .M.T.E.: You dwell
too long and morbidly on the obstetrical portion....
R. : Too carelessly strung together... .J.8.T.: Good
idea clumsily worked 0ut.... E.C.F.: “What’s wrong
with it?” Everything... .H. A. P.: You’re far too
inexperienced to tackle such a theme... .V.M.: The
only admirable thing about it was the typing....
C.N.W.: Conventional moralising and unreal char-
acters... .11. J.: Could sniff that musty plot a mile
off W.J.H.C.: Learn the elements of grammar
for a start J.E.M.: Wanders over familiar ground.
. ...C.Y.: Writing a murder yarn in red ink doesn’t
add atmosphere. .. .K.F.: Plot not so had; telling
wild and ragged W.N.: Begins well, then goes
off cn a jag... .S.M.A.: Can’t believe that any Jew
would be taken in with that trick... .L.S.J.T.: Some
skill, but antiquated plot.. . .W.C.F.: Looks as if you
merely wrote the yarn to show off as an inventor
of a secret code.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.M.: Don’t draw with your eyes shut....
W.S.R.: It came, was seen, and didn’t conquer....
0.F.: It’s in a class of its own all right-—below the
kindergarten class.... L.R.T.: Boxing instructor
settled with one b10w... .H.S.: Needs a lot of licking
into shape. .. .R.D.8.: Still puzzling over the dying
duck jest. . . .R.A.: There’s no excuse for it....
S. J.: Fearful.... J.M.: Better keep them dressed if
that’s how they look undressed... .A.G.: Cricket
sketches impossible... .N.L.J.: Let us see more than
head studies... .D.R.: Flapper who has to walk
home has been done to death. .. .C.W.: Jacky’s too
much of a scarecrow. .. .W.H.C.J.: Drop that vague
style... .A.M.: Dreadful... .D.M.F.: Try something
simpler. .. .W.A.P.: The trouble is that the bad
artists don’t die young... .W.0.H.: No P.M.8.:
A washout D.R.E.: Must you use violet ink?
... .F. 8.: You slipped from the first line... .T.M.K.:
Dispute between glowworm and owl referred to
Arbitration Court.... T.W.: Lop-sided.... E.A. J.;
That’s not the man.


d
ď
111111*1111
’■ f W !
■■mi'' 1 .-.-
Hn Mm.
m^4'mam
đ
d
ď


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2697.
October 21, 1931.
THE REAL STATESMANSHIP.
THE ORATOR. Anybody could fill our bellies by makin’ us work. What we gotter demawnd is somebody to fill our bellies wivout work.” (Loud applause.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21!, George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 IB IS; •Phone 87971.
Victoria: 10,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 !,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
J months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for !,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHAT THE GERMAN CRISIS
TEACHES AUSTRALIA.
A desperate effort is being made to save
both Germany and Russia. The trouble in
each case is lack of capital. Russia’s Five-
year Plan was designed primarily to put
the country in funds. Loans in the ordinary
way were out of the question; foreign pur-
chases had therefore to be made with the
proceeds of foreign sales. To produce goods
at a price which would command for them
a market after paying freight (Russia hav-
ing practically ceased to have any vessels
of its own) imposed upon the nation a
colossal task, involving prodigious sacrifices;
and it is not surprising that Russia is
desperately seeking loans in New York and
Paris. Germany has likewise been fever-
ishly seeking capital abroad; great banks
have crashed, there are literally thousands
of bankruptcies per month, and “on latest
estimates, it will be necessary to provide
winter sustenance for at least 6,500,000 um
employed, which will impose a severe strain
on the already depleted funds.” To save
the country from threatening chaos consti-
tutional government has in effect been
abandoned and a virtual dictatorship estab-
lished.
We in Australia are not much concerned
about the political squabbles of Europe ; but
the proceedings which led up to the present
state of these countries, and especially of
Germany, most deeply concern us. How
is it that they are so short of capital?
And why do they have such prodigious
difficulty in getting it?
Both these countries had inflation. That
ought to have released, and in fact did
release, both countries of a huge debt. In
Germany, where 100,000 marks (£5000) would
not buy a bootlace, a man could pay off an
old mortgage of 200,000 marks by selling
a dozen eggs. All Government and local
government liabilities were in that way
extinguished at trifling cost; also all mort-
gages and all fixed deposits. Now, that does
not look as if it would be of any national
consequence at all. A debt owed outside
the country is quite different. If you can
get rid of that, you get rid also of the
need to send wealth away to pay the
interest. But if you wipe out an internal
debt, Schmidt merely keeps the money that
otherwise would have gone to his neighbor
Brown. In Germany what happened was
that the millions of the “middle class” lost
their incomes from property, while tens of
millions of farmers and “workers” seemed
a little better off. They either didn’t have
to pay interest, or instalments, or taxes
which they previously paid; or they got a
little of what formerly was paid away in
interest, rent, etc.
But, though the nation looked no worse
off, actually it was incalculably worse off.
For whereas Schmidt used to re-invest his
dividend or his interest, now there was no-
body to invest it. There was thus not only
the destruction of old capital, there was also
stoppage of the flow of new capital into
industrial and other enterprises. Econo-
mists foresaw the results and foretold them
exactly. Professor Bonn wrote in 1923: —
The accumulated capital of the investor has been
scattered in bits among the different classes of
producers. The class living from the savings of
the past has lost its income; it will have to be
kept alive somehow. The general investors will
thus be a source of expenditure where they were
before a source of income.... The cost of running
the State and the municipalities must be borne by
the producers. As the mere consumer has ceased to
exist, taxation must lead to a generally high level
of the cost of production. Taxation will reduce home
consumption pro tanto. The German home
market will be restricted for German goods as well
as for foreign goods. The working class cannot offer
resistance to the lowering of wages. As a result
the turn-over at home will become smaller than it
has ever been.
Russia and Germany are suffering from
precisely the same thing: they got rid of the
thousands of little reservoirs of capital
which used to, be drawn upon to keep
industry going and to pay taxes. And soon
industry was hamstrung.
There is not an atom of difference
between the policy which several of our
Governments are pursuing and that which
brought disaster upon Germany and
Russia. It is true that we have not gone
in deliberately and enthusiastically for in-
flation; but that is no fault of any Gov-
ernment. Our £ already is worth only 14s.
in gold dollars or French francs; yet our
Governments do not think w T e have even
begun inflation! Meantime, pending threat-
ened changes in the Commonwealth Bank,
they are using other means of wiping out
those reservoirs of capital which so infuriate
the Communist. The 22-V p.c. reduction of
interest, rent and dividends on pref. shares
is in strict conformity with the plan. So
are the increase of the taxes on property
and the piling up of the dole. The enor-
mous increase in the taxation on the higher
salaries and on incomes from personal exer-
tion is part of the same plan to stop the
creation of these reservoirs of capital.
Do these people never learn anything
from experience? Will they go on putting
into practice their stupid theories after
nations have been smashed through employ-
ing them? These dreamers imagine that
you can inflate without doing harm. But
you cannot —the failure of Germany and
Russia to get loans to-day is the price they
pay for having already rooked their
creditors through inflation. They tell us,
these dreamers, that credit is a thing which
any community can create. Russia and
Germany know better now. No country
ever wanted anything worse than these
countries want credit. Yet the one is on
the verge of chaos because it destroyed
the only reservoirs from which capital and
credit can be drawn, while the other is
fighting its way out of the same difficulties
by an enormous employment of forced
labor—and is not sure then that it can
succeed.
The lesson for Australia is clear. The
thrifty man who puts by some savings, and
invests the money—in Government bonds,
in deposits, in a life policy, in any indus-
trial or productive enterprise—is the sheet-
anchor of his country. No progress is
possible without him. And the Labor politi-
cian who seeks to “expropriate” him is the
worker’s enemy.
A BISHOP AMONG THE PROFITS.
Bishop Moyes, of Armidale (N.S.W.), is
the latest to tell us we have made a mess
of the world. “Service is the only general
motive on which can be built a successful
and easy-running commerce,” he says; but
actually “goods and therefore profits have
been the primary thought and motive of
business”:— ■
Despite inventions and new sources of power, pro-
gress still means poverty. Everybody works in his
own interests—a policy ultimately contrary to the
interests of all. Commerce in its concern for pro-
duction and profit is utterly atheistic. It is in-
tolerable that the situation should be subject to the
competitive principle. Cannot great financiers be
persuaded to see themselves as trustees instead of
profiteers ?
Of course all is not well with the world.
But one may be as sure as the bishop is
that there are intolerable wrongs to be
righted, and still insist that the competitive
system is the best yet devised and that
nothing so far suggested can take the place
of production for profit. That these things
have not brought universal well-being and
happiness no more condemns our economic
system than the equal non-success of the
Christian religion condemns that.
In the first place his Lordship is entirely
wrong in assuming that it is not possible
for service and profit to go together, or
that the harder profit is pursued the less
must the service be. One farmer may think
only of the service he is rendering the
community as he cultivates his land, scat-
ters the seed and reaps the harvest. Along-
side him is another who goes through the
same processes, thinking of the money he
can make for the benefit of his family and
his farm. Will the wheat the one reaps be
of more value to the community than that
which the other sells to the miller? It
may be that the farmer who thinks only of
serving the community will be more ener-
getic; it may be that that farmer will be
more industrious in searching out new
methods who does not think of the extra
money the increased harvest will bring him.
But there is not one man in a hundred who
will believe it.
And it is not only money that the man
who is fired with the competitive spix-it
will be considering. To most men the game
is more than the prize. Young Wiggins,
who is striving to increase his harvest and
his cheque, thinks of old Smitheram down
the road and his claim to have the best
farm in the district. Wiggins, as he pulls
himself out of bed 10 minuses before his
fixed time, has visions of the new plant
he will put in, the tank he will make, the
fences he will build, the land he will drain,
the grass he will lay down. He wondei’s
how old Smitheram will reply to all that.
And the Agricultural Department sends
around its inspector, who, knowing more
about these things than even a bishop can
be expected to, congratulates Wiggins and
says that it is men like him who raise the
standard of agriculture and do incalculable
service to the State.
While, then, service is not inconsistent
with profits in the primary industries, it
is declared by as good an authority as
Henry Ford to be absolutely indispensable
in the secondary industries. “Service,” he
says, “is the foundation of successful busi-
ness. If the main objective of any business
is the earning of a fixed dividend, then that
business is sui'ely doomed. Profits must
come as an incident to doing the job well
or they will not come at all.” Just as this
paper, 'without any special knowledge on the
subject, suspects that a bishop’s crook
rarely comes to the man who deliberately
pursues it, but rather is put into the hand of
a man who does, and because he does, good
service as a curate and a rector.
It is true that in this process great private
fortunes are made; and it is on these that
the eye of suspicion is mostly cast. Is it
possible that the world can be served by
a system which gives a few men this wealth ?
Henry Ford has something to say about
that, too: —
To-day none of the real leaders is working for
money. All of them have more than they can use.
and they continue to earn money in large amounts
as part of the machinery of monetary supply for
the whole of society. All so-called private fortunes
are nothing less than public reserves.
Mr. Ford was, of course, talking about the
leaders of productive industry—not the men
whose fortunes are made by robbing
others. These latter do not come into
this picture at all. The great difference
between them and the men in Ford’s mind
is that, whereas the parasites merely take
somebody else’s money, the producers make
wealth which nobody would have but for
them. A man like H. V. McKay finds him-
self in a little quiet country town. He sees
the possibilities of great improvement in
harvester machinery, and he sets up a small
workshop. As he makes a profit he puts
it back into the works; presently he decides
to build new works and let a new town
grow around them. Yet he probably never
had £5 to spare in his life; the works called
for more money than his profits could
supply. A man was mentioned with grati-
tude in The Bulletin a few weeks ago—
William Sandford, founder of the steel
industry in Australia. The Lithgow works
called for more profits than he could make,
and, though nominally rich when he retired,
actually he was heavily in debt. True,
these “public reserves” are private property.
But the private ownership is quite nominal.
There are the works: the owner can neither
eat them nor drink them nor wear them.
All he can do is to operate them. He
becomes more the slave of the public than
any other person can be. He is tied to the
wheel.
On balance the results have been exceed-
ingly good. Employers are still found who
will underpay and overwork their em-
ployees; but there can be no question that
the system we have been talking about,
while it has almost halved working hours
and more than trebled wages, has put a
world of things at our command of which
the eighteenth century knew nothing. How
absurd it is, how mischievous, to talk of
progress still meaning poverty when we
know that as late as 1844 in the great indus-
trial city of Bradford “house refuse con-
tinued to be thrown into the streets, sewers
were not laid, and water was purchased
from carts at the price its vendors could
command”; that in Manchester in 1832 “of
4572 workmen’s houses 1649 were without
lavatory accommodation in any form”; that
in 1830 “in Bristol nearly half the popula-
tion belonged to families living in one
room”; and that at the beginning of the
nineteenth century in agricultural England
“meat was not on the tables of the working
people above once in a week”!
That our system of economics holds
defects which call for remedy is admitted.
No system can be static: it must develop
to meet the changes of the times. Thus
without a doubt further large changes are
pending in our money system. So far from
this being rigid it has developed very
remarkably during the past 50 years, and is
quite obviously prepared for further
development, especially towards Central
Reserve Banking. We have had a full
share of these developments in Australia.
It is only 20 years since the Common-
wealth Bank, owned by the people, was
created; to-day it exerts a power so great
that State Premiers are furiously jealous
of it and Commonwealth Governments
wheedle it to-day and threaten it to-morrow.
There is no development which the present
situation calls for so great as those which
the banking system has comfortably under-
gone within the past quarter-century alone.
There is, therefore, no reason a.t all for
pulling dowm and destroying a system under
which such tremendous advances have been
made in the past 100 years—in the past
40 years especially.
The complete success of our present
system of economics, as of religion or any-
thing else, depends upon the human ele-
ment. And, since the moulding of this
human material is the work of the Church
rather than of the politician or the econo-
mist, may it be respectfully suggested to
Bishop Moyes that the failure which he
so loudly laments, and for which he blames
the business man and the banker, may
more rightly be laid at his own door? And,
if he pleases, at the door also of the Press?
IF JAPAN AND CHINA FIGHT.
If China goes to war with Japan single-
handed she hasn’t a ghost of a chance of
winning, and she will lose still more territory
to the Mikado. If Russia joins her the
fighting will be more willing, but she will
lose territory to both parties.
As heretofore the fighting will be in Man-
churia and possibly in Mongolia. The
ability of the long Trans-Siberian railway
to discharge troops into the battle area
is no greater than it was in the previous
Russo-Jap conflict, while the ability of the
Japs to move troops has been increased by
new railways, some of which are in Chinese
hands but could be easily taken from their
owners. Russia is reputed to have the
largest standing army in the world and one
of the most efficient air forces. Japan has
never done much good in the air, owing in
part perhaps to the family system not
producing individualists or stimulating
initiative; but she has the advantage ox
fighting near her home base. China has
the beginnings of an air force and there
is nothing wrong with her pilots. Some
of them have done world flights. Her na\ y
comprises no more than about 40,000 tons
—mainly barnacles and obsolescence, lne
army that Chiang Kai-shek could fling into
the field is conservatively estimated at one
and a half millions, and some of it is reason-
ably efficient, containing civil-war veterans
who have been fighting almost for a genera-
tion. But much of it is glorified police
force and more of it camouflaged banditti.
The Manchurian army numbers 250,000 and
is the best of the lot, having been organised
by a one-armed British officer. The so-
called “People’s Army,” which marched with
one long hoot from Canton to Peking, was
really a political force which shot its oppo-
nents down with propaganda. When it
met a Japanese battalion at Tsman-iu it
failed to distinguish itself. There are
arsenals scattered about the country and
people outside only too glad to supply the
wherewithal for a willing go; but Japan
would have command of the sea, and would
no doubt frown on this application of the
principle of Business as Usual.
If America joined in it would temporarily
solve her unemployment problem, but she
would have to meet a Japanese navy a long
way from her own bases. Further, the Japan-
ese archipelago seems to be pretty well
impregnable, whereas the coast-
line is long and vulnerable. Both Govern-
ments could do a lot of harm to each other s
navies without settling anything important;
and Japan might come out as the third
owner of the Philippines, while still main-
taining her monopoly of Manchuria, 'which
is the real reason why the Americans feel
so Chinophile.
If the Chinese Government retires inland
the Mikado could seize the capital, Nanking,
and all the ports on the Yang-tse, where
her gunboats swarm already; but he couldn t
stop the national boycott, which has always
been China’s strongest weapon. Without
her trade with China Japan would have
to assassinate or otherwise get rid of several
millions of her already unwieldy population.
The time is past when Nippon could make
China into a Japanese India. Even her
present nibble at the project has caused
more international complications than any-
thing Clive did in Hindustan.
One thing that the row has disclosed is
the hollowness of the myth of Pan-Asia.
The only form of Asiatic unity is Com-
munism, which is engaged in organising the
proletarians of Persia, India, Java, China
and Japan, equally with those of Russia.
America and Australia. This movement
views war between the various powers with
equanimity; in fact, welcomes it, since
out of wars between rival imperialisms
organised society ever weaker.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The World’s Money.
The call for a change in the world’s money
becomes more insistent. “It is impossible
with the present high commodity price of
gold,” the “Times” said last week, “for
debtor countries to discharge their debts,”
and it added that this was “particularly
applicable to Australia.”
The position is not quite so bad now as
it was; but how bad it can get is illustrated
by the fact that the purchasing value of
the American gold dollar was two and a
half times greater in 1914 than in 1920. In
Australia, where the variations generally
have not been so great, the Government
Statistician takes wholesale commodity
prices of 1911 as the basis (1000) and shows
that in 1920 they reached 2480. In 1904
they were 890. That is to say, a man
who borrowed the value of 14 bales oi
wool in 1904 could discharge • his debt
with five bales in 1920. But the world’s
great misfortune is that it is always in a
period of high prices that there is most
borrowing. And money borrowed, say, in
1920, and which then represented five bales
of wool, can only be repaid at some other
time with 14 bales—wool being taken for
the purposes of this argument to represent
commodities in general.
Nominally, gold does not vary in price.
The sovereign or the American dollar always
contains the same number of grains of the
metal. The real value of gold is not, how-
ever, determined by the number of grains
in a dollar, but by the quantity of com-
modities which can be exchanged for the
dollar. A wooden yardstick will measure
off the same quantity of rope or flannel or
silk to-day as it did yesterday. The price
of the goods will vary, and therefore the
quantity available for a given sum; but
the yard will not be 13 inches long to-day
and 36 inches at some other time.
That there are these tremendous changes
in what a sovereign or a dollar will buy
may, it is true, not be wholly due to changes
in the monetary yardstick. There may be
a vast increase in the production of wheat,
for example; and wheat may in consequence
slump heavily. But when practically every-
thing slumps at once, and is also in the
habit of rising simultaneously, there can
be no other reasonable conclusion than that
the monetary yardstick is to blame. And a


yardstick which can be 13 inches long in
one year and 36 inches in another is too
great a freak to be tolerated.
Among the many proposals to improve
things, four stand out conspicuously:—
(1) To put the world’s gold supply in the hands
of two or three nations as trustees for all, thus pre-
venting any part of it being locked up and so
wasted.
(2) To join silver to gold and thus restore a
bimetallic standard.
(3) To introduce some such scheme as that of
Professor Fisher, who would have the Government
authority “buy and sell currency, in terms of bul-
lion, in such a way as to maintain, as far as possible,
a par, not with a fixed weight of gold, but with
such a weight of gold as should have a fixed pur-
chasing power.”
(4) To leave things as they are, and trust to
greatly strengthened Central Reserve Banks to regu-
late the flow of gold, releasing it or damming it
back in order to stimulate trade or put a brake
upon it.
The first was recommended by the Econo-
mic Conference of Genoa of 1920; but it
has remained nothing but a pious aspiration.
The last had the warm support of Reginald
McKenna, the English banker and econo-
mist; and the success of the policy in the
U.S.A. over a period of war and post-war
years seemed to justify him. But it has
since broken down; and there must now
be grave doubts whether it alone can be
internationally effective.
There remain the other two; and, how-
ever distasteful it may be to the U.S.A.
in particular to have to consider them, it
will have to bo done. Uncle Sam is rather
in the position of a man who has won in
a gamble all the tools of trade of every-
body else in the camp, and now is in danger
of starvation because in his pride of posses-
sion he has locked up all the implements
in his shed.
♦
Savings Bank Deposits.
Reference to the N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank grows wearisome. But so
many people are suffering so much distress,
and so little is being done to give them
quick relief, that the subject has to be
returned to again and again.
Last, week it was announced for the
umtieth time that the bank is quite sol-
vent; and it probably is. All that is the
matter is that the bulk of its assets are
frozen. Because of this shortage of liquid
assets depositors can’t get their money;
and, though some sort of hope is held out
that a repayment will be made within a
few months, it is not suggested that the
repayment can be more than a poor 10 p.c.
Meantime desperate people are offering
their books by the dozen every day, and in
some cases getting no more than 10s. in
the £ for them. Two months ago 15s. in
the £ was the current figure; to-d&y it is
more like 12s.
Something must be done about this. Pro-
bably if the business were handed over to
the Commonwealth Bank not 2i per cent,
of the deposits would be asked for within
a month. Three-fourths of those who want
their deposits only want them because they
can’t get them. If they knew they were
safe and could be got when wanted, very
few of them would be drawn; many of
them would be added to.
When the Commonwealth Bank looked
into the business originally, it was on the
basis of keeping it separate. That is to
say, it was not to be open to any old G.S.B.
depositor to withdraw forthwith the whole
of his deposit. It is worth serious con-
sideration whether that basis cannot be
quite safely abandoned, and the entire busi-
ness of the bank, new and old, treated as
ordinary business of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank. Specific guarantees would,
of course, have to be put up by the State
Government, supported by the Common-
wealth Government, that net deficiencies
in realisation would be met by issues of
Government stock: the total net issue
might be adjusted every 12 months.
Obviously what the case calls for is an
arrangement under which those who really
want their money may get it, and not a
fraction of it, but all of it; and that is only
possible by putting the whole business
where the vast bulk of the deposits will not
be asked for. There is only one such place,
and that is the Commonwealth Bank; and
that is because no other has note-issuing
rights which make it practically impreg-
nable.
«
The Lang Gang in Adelaide.
A by-election for a seat in the Leg. Coun-
cil is to be held in South Aus. next week,
and a Lang-plan candidate is standing. The
Lang plan was abandoned by its alleged
author when he fawned on the Common-
wealth to get money for the civil servants
to whom he had promised a one-twelfth
salary increase, and whom he could not pay
at all. It was abandoned when he subscribed
to the Premiers’ agreement for “a reduction
of 20 per cent, in all adjustable Govern-
ment expenditure, as compared with the
year ending June 30, 1930, including all
emoluments, wages, salaries and pensions,”
though he was characteristically disin-
genuous in giving effect to it. It was aban-
doned when he undertook to meet his
interest bills, past, present and to come.
Indeed, the terms of capitulation were such
that he had to go to the hated Loan Coun-
cil for permission to discount Treasury bills
sufficient to satisfy the Commonwealth’s
claim, which included interest on the interest
of which he sought to bilk the public credi-
tor. But the plan, which is “as old as dis-
honesty,” though torn to tatters in its
home and thrown to the rubbish tip,
is still cherished by Lang’s satellites, so
Adelaide has been invaded by a swarm of
so-called Labor politicians, most of them
Ministers and ex-Ministers. from Sydney,
who urge the claims of Mr. Bardolph in the
language of their tribe.
One of these worthies, Davidson, the
Minister of No-Works, who draws £1463
p.a. for Heaven knows what, was pleased to
indulge in what the “Labor Daily” described
as “a striking contrast between the lot of
the people under the Lang Government and
conditions in South Australia.” South Aus-
tralia has admittedly gone through a gruel-
ling time, having suffered years of drought
before it was hit by the slump. All the
same, with a population of 580,600 at June 30,
1930, it had only 23,000 unemployed at the
latest official computation, whereas David-
son’s State (population, 2,485,100) had
125,000. And no one can say of Premier Hill,
as the Federal Labor Treasurer has just
said of Premier Lang, that “he has smashed
the Savings Bank; he has driven business
away from his State—his State is in a worse
position than any other State.” You will
not read in the Adelaide “Advertiser,” as
you do in the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
heartrending offers to sell Savings Bank
accounts for 12s. in the £. No South Aus.
Minister will be driven to confessing, as
Minister Ely did, that 25 p.c., perhaps
30 p.c., of the dole expenditure was going
to common swindlers, or, as Minister Badly
did, that dole coupons were being exchanged
for booze, starting-price wagers, lottery
tickets and the favors of prostitutes. Great
as its troubles have been, South Australia,
under the Hill Government, has been faith-
ful to its fine history. Its name does not
stink in the nostrils of people who pay their
debts, honor Australia and respect the
traditions of the race from which they
sprang.
This invasion of stipendiary spouters from
Sydney, preaching the politics of the push,
is enough to make Kingston, Playford,
and Tom Price turn in their graves.
♦
The Problem J. Bull Faced.
The issue which Baldwin and MacDonald
are putting before the British elector this
month is compressed in the same few words.
Britain has struck the new and alarming
situation that it is importing more than
its exports will pay for, the term “exports”
being made to include income received
abroad from loans, investments, earnings
from British ships in foreign waters and
money earned by all sorts of Anglo-foreign
institutions. British-owned banks earn divi-
dends in Australia, Maoriland, South
America, Darkest Africa, Yellowest Asia and
other places, and these outside earnings
were once over £500,000,000 a year. But
they have slumped alarmingly, and no one
can say when they will recover if they
ever do. J. Bull can’t go to his Old Man
for assistance in the Australian fashion, for
his male parent (the Roman Empire or
some other institution) died a long time
ago. So Baldwin and MacDonald agree that
J. Bull must export much more goods if
he can find anybody to pay for more
goods (and furnish work for Jno. Bull’s own
people in making them). Or lie must import
much less goods (and furnish work for his
own people in making the goods he used to
buy abroad). Or he must do both these
things if the first is possible (which is
doubtful) as well as the second (about
which there is no doubt).
If this interference with commerce is Pro-
tection, the two political leaders will
apparently put up with it. When imports
are reduced, Britain will lose the revenue
that it might gain by charging a small
revenue duty on them in their unreduced
state, and on this subject our own Earle
Page and our A. Parkhill will be voluble.
But it is hardly worth while to pay
£1,000,000 in gold for foreign goods, and
deprive our own people of the job of mak-
ing these goods, so that we may charge
(and pay) ourselves perhaps £50,000 in
paper for receiving them. Australian imports
exceeded the exports which were supposed
to pay for them for many more years than
Britain’s have, and until recently there was
no fuss, so it seems to our Pages and Park-
hills absurd that J. Bull should have so
sudden a panic. But Australia preserved
its calm between 1920 and 1929 because it
borrowed the money required to pay for
its excess of imports, and justified itself
with the crude lie that the loans weren’t
wanted to pay for imports but were for “re-
productive” and “developmental” works,
though local loans would have served for
works purposes every bit as well. John
Bull would be able to face the same diffi-
culty with the same calm if Australia or
somebody would lend him the money to
pay for his excess of imports; but Aus-
tralia’s Freetraders are not helpful. Finally
the Australian Government took to paying
for its excess of imports by what might be
called a gigantic bank robbery; at least
there was £27,000,000 of gold in the joint-
stock banks in 1929, and there is none
there now, it having been seized by Act of
Parliament.
Baldwin and MacDonald want to make
exports cover the value of imports with-
out foreign borrowing, without robbing the
public creditor under the name of “conver-
sion” or anything else, and without whole-
sale brigandage at the expense of the banks.
The process may be denounced as Pro-
tection, but the attitude of the Baldwin-
MacDonald pair is that they don’t much
care what it is denounced as.
The Douglas System.
J. T. Smith in reply:—
I submit that you do not prove your contention
that the industries making plant pay out simultane-
ously as much money in wages and salaries, etc., as
the price of their product which appears as a cost
in the price of the bread. Permit me to state
the position. Take, say, three industries as repre-
sentative of all industries. Each industry, as you
admit, has charges on account of its plant and raw
materials, etc.; therefore we can show the position
thus: —
No. 1 No. 2 No. 3
Industry. Industry. Industry.
Raw material, plant
charges .. .. £2OO £3OO £5OO
Wages, salaries, divi-
dends paid . . . . £lOO £2OO £5OO
This presents a rough picture of what is going on
in industry every day, week, month, year, or any
period taken. Each industry is distributing wages
salaries or dividends, and simultaneously incurring
costs on account of plant, etc. In this illustration
the total costs of all three industries are £lBOO.
Of this sum of costs, only £BOO is being distri-
buted to individuals, the remainder being merely
money payments passing between industries and on
its way back to the banks in repayment of over-
drafts ; so that, clearly, if the people engaged in
these industries wished at any moment to buy the
product of their labor, they could not do so at
prices covering all costs. Nor does the relation
of purchasing power to prices equate, even if we
take the product of No. 3 industry alone, on the
assumption that this is the industry making the
ultimate or consumable products, and that, after
all, these are the only things consumers want to
buy. For even in that case prices could not be
less than £lOOO, while the money distributed to
individuals by all industries is only £BOO. If it
could be shown that there was an industry distri-
buting £2OO at the same time in wages and
salaries, and which industry had no capital charges,
then your criticism would have weight up to a
point; but this you cannot do. Evidence in support
of this analysis is found in the figures for Australian
industries for 1928-29. During that year the value
of output, or in other words, the costs incurred,
amounted to £421,000,000 ; while the wages, salaries
and dividends distributed in respect of that pro-
duction were only £131,000,000.
To which The Bulletin says briefly:—
If the baker gets £lOO for his bread, the whole
£lOO is available for paying for things; that is
to say, the sale price is not in excess of the
amount of money distributed or to be distributed.
Mr. Smith contends that part of this £lOO is
“merely money payments passing between industries
and on its way back to the banks in repayment of
overdrafts.” Let’s see. The baker pays, say, £3O
for labor, £25 for flour, £lO for fuel, £lO for
salt and sundries, £lO for motive power and £5
for workers’ compensation, etc., and puts by £7 for
depreciation of plant and £3 for profit. The £25
for flour “merely passes between industries”; but
it is money all the same, and enables the miller to
buy wheat and keep his works going with labor.
The £25 is thus as much available for buying bread
and other things as if the baker himself distributed
it. So with the money for fuel, salt, etc. ; all are
payments to enable other employers to pay wages.
Also £7 is put by to cover depreciation. That
means to replace worn-out plant; so it is money paid
or to be paid to other employers to enable them to
pay wages. The profit, of course, is spent by the
baker himself ; often, in fact, it is spent in advance.
So we find that every penny of the £lOO which
the baker receives for his bread is available for
buying bread and other things—the whole £lOO
and not merely the part which is distributed in the
baker’s wages, salaries and dividends. That being
so, the bpttom drops out of the Social-Credit plan.
4
Civilian Soldiers.
The lamented death of John Monash has
been followed by a cloud of references to
the civilian soldier who sprang ready-
armed from the paths of peace to the fore-
front of the battle; and always the implica-
tion is that money spent on military
training is money wasted. As a matter of
fact, the great Australian Hebrew, perhaps the
most distinguished soldier of his race since
Joshua, was far from the popular concep-
tion of a civilian soldier untrained in the
arts and usages of war. He was by profes-
sion grounded in the capacity to foresee,
plan and organise which is one of the
essentials of a military commander. In
his practice as a civil engineer he learned
just what his professional contemporaries-
to-be were learning on active service or at
the Staff College. This training was sup-
plemented by years of application as a
militia officer in the highly-technical artil-
lery arm, and here he learned the practical
details which were to be remembered and
applied later. When the war came it found
Monash a trained soldier in all but name.
He had risen to command a battalion, and
that in itself is a worth-while school for
those able to profit by it. It was his for-
tune to rise, step by step, in the service,
watching, we may be sure, at every rung
of the ladder, the technique of such pro-
fessional soldiers as Brudenell White, per-
haps the greatest chief of staff the war
produced, and profiting by it, just as hun-
dreds of Monash’s own subordinates pro-
fited by watching him. That his great gifts
and his even greater ability to apply them
were largely responsible for his success no
one will deny, but the theory that he rose
from a raw amateur to be a great captain
in four years is too fantastic to entertain.
♦
The Bog of Unification.
The Federal Government is still flounder-
ing in the bog of unification into which
Priminister Scullin threw it during his inter-
view with the Riverina delegates. It is
proposed, so it is announced, to ask the
people to approve of unification, with the
Federal Parliament holding “complete and
sovereign powers,” but a flight or covey of
Provincial Councils (10 to 12 in N.S.W.
alone) are to have what powers are left
after the complete powers have been given
elsewhere. It is added that most probably
“the people will be invited to say whether
they are agreeable to unification and the
delegation of powers by the Federal Parlia-
ment, rather than to express themselves on
the principle of the abolition of State Par-
liaments.”
But that is merely pushing the real diffi-
culty into the background. A majority of
the voters and a majority of the States
(four out of six) might be enough to carry
an abstract and preliminary proposition
about making the Federal Parliament
supreme; but every State must give its in-
dividual consent before its State Legislature
can be dragged from it. If the Scullidores
got a general majority for unification and
yet were confronted by two States that
wouldn’t part with their Parliaments on
any account, the deadlock would be ridicu-
lous. And it would be extra-ridiculous if
the two were Westralia and Queensland,
which include more than half the area of
the entire continent. Even if four States
gave a majority for unification, one might
decide, when the next question came up,
that it wouldn’t part with its Legislature in
practice, even if the one at Canberra was
to be sole and supreme in theory. Thus
the new and expensive Provincial Councils
might be there; but the State Legislature
might be there also.
However, that difficulty need not be faced
yet. It will be enough to go on with if
the Scullidores will tell us how they are
going to get over the difficulty if so much
as one State refuses to give up its local
Legislature.
♦
The Latest Shipping Strike.
A scheme recently developed to damage
Australian industry by another shipping
strike. The matter at issue didn’t concern
food, or wages, or accommodation, or hours
of labor, or lack of safety appliances, or
verbal or physical injury of any sort. But
the largely-foreign Communist element con-
sidered the racing season a good time for
another insurrection, and an excuse was
easily found. John Fitzclarence Smith,
steamboat fireman, with black hair, was
taken ill, and his place was temporarily
filled, without any loss to him, by Thomas
Fitzherbert Jones, fireman, with brown hair.
Otherwise there would have been a fire-
man short and a sheol of a row. But when
Smith recovered and wanted his shovel
again, the Communist bosses of the Aus-
tralian seamen professed to discover that
Jones should keep it even if he didn’t want
it, and that Smith should be thrown over-
board. Then complications grew in all
directions. Firemen and seamen who dared
not assert their own opinions were dragged
into the stupid shindy. The steamer was
laid up, and its cargo put ashore again, and
the union bosses said a Black Mass and
declared war against any other vessel which
might take any of the cargo aboard. The
scene of the trouble was Sydney, in the
unlucky State which enriched Australia with
Lang and Piddington, and found Federal
seats for Beasley, Eldridge and Lazzarini.
N. S. Wales is notable for strikes, among
other things. In 1930 Australia lost
1,511,241 days’ work through going on strike,
and the union bosses in N. S. Wales had
such a genius for nosing out grievances that
1,443,366 of these days were lost in their
State. In 1927, which was a rather remark-
able year, these figures appeared:—
Days’ Work Lost Through Strikes.
X. S. Wales (2,400,266 inhabitants) .. 1,133,963
Rest of Commonwealth (3,834,588 in-
habitants) . . .. . . .. 579,618
Great Britain (44,000,000 inhabitants) .. 1,170,000
It is only occasionally that Lang’s State
does the heroic performance of striking
harder than Great Britain, but it is a regular
thing for it to beat all the rest of the Com-
monwealth out of sight and hearing in this
respect. The question remains whether the
management of the State is so foolish and
rotten that this extraordinary discontent
is justified, or whether the people have
drifted into servile obedience to a poisonous
and largely alien crowd which teaches that
frenzied discontent is the only way to
Heaven.
♦
Wanted —More Extremists.
Some of the newspapers refer to the com-
bination of interests formed to oppose the
Scullidores as “the anti-extremists,” But
there is no particular point in being “anti”
anything unless it is a whole-hearted, root-
and-branch opposition to an abhorred pro-
posal. There is no virtue, political or other-
wise, in trimming or rail-sitting. Politics is,
or should be, a contest of principles, and it
remains an honorable profession just so long
as it is not invaded by persons who don’t
believe in the principles they are supposed
to support. The extremist, whether he
be a true-blue Tory, certain that his class has
a divine right to rule and to uphold the pri-
vileges of property, or a convinced revolu-
tionary Communist, is entitled to respect.
The “moderate” politician who takes the
Tory’s money and uses it to finance pale-
pink Socialistic trading ventures, or who
-angles for the Communist’s vote and then
sends him to gaol, is not, or should not be,
an object for anything but scorn.
The crying need of Australia is for men
who have clear notions of what is right and
what is wrong, what is black and what is
white, and who are prepared to take those
clear notions to any extreme. If a theory
has to be abandoned half-way there must be
something wrong with it. We have had
enough of well-meaning bargains with devils
and ill-intentioned concessions to deities,
and the one thing we simply cannot afford
to have any more of is the person who
with graceful moderation opposes such
theories as that two and two make five or
that lying and theft are cardinal virtues.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Director x:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HIJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts o t
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£3O
!0
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The assorted anti-Communist Federal
parties are endeavoring to fix up a joint
programme for next year’s election. A pro-
mising item in the rough draft is “Creation
of new States, after referendums in the
various districts.” The Constitution provides
for the peaceful subdivision of the existing
bulky areas into smaller States, but
hitherto no party has recognised the advisa-
bility of subdivision. It is time that some-
one did so by way of a direct answer to the
unification movement. Unification isn't pro-
vided for in the Constitution, and can’t be
brought about except by compulsion and
violence. There is no habitable country in
the world except Russia, which is habitable
but not desirable, which is so ill-provided
as Australia with local self-government.
The League of Nations, standing up with-
out an armed force to stop a belligerent nation,
reminds this paper sometimes of Lamb, K.C.,
of Sydney. There was a meeting of the Bar
to consider something or other in connect-
LEAGUE OF NATIONS: “You shall not pass
this way.”
MARS: “Pardon, sir—l am a little hard of
hearing.”
tion with Lang’s remarkable, legislation, and
there was only one dissentient —a member
of really no consequence at all. “I declare
tho motion carried,” said Lamb, K.C.; then,
after a pause, “and, being a little hard of
hearing, I declare it carried unanimously.
That, anyhow, is how the god of War must
feel about the unarmed League of Nations
as lie presses on towards a job.
The emphatic orders of Premier Lang
that the surviving N.S.W. railway strikers
must be promoted, even if the surviving non-
strikers suffer in the process, led to the com-
plications which follow a fliick-headed man
through life. Logal opinion poured on
Chief Commissioner Cleary showing that the
thing couldn't be done. Lang replied in
his topmost roar that it had to be done
even if he couldirt prove it legal, and he
ivould take the responsibility. But there is
no statute by which one man can relieve
another of his offence or crime in that off-
hand manner. The sort of document which
the Courts don’t recognise is a letter which
reads: —
Dear Brown,- —Please kill Jones. I will be respon-
sible.—John Smith.
If the Court orders Cleary to do something
or go to gaol for contempt, Lang won’t go
,to gaol in his stead.
Theodore, as Premier of Queensland, was
the first Australian politician to float a loan
in the U.S.A., and he was immensely proud
of the achievement —then. But he was sorely
tried the other day when a well-meaning but
tactless follower, one Tully, wanted to know
how much had been paid in exchange on
an interest bill of £200,000, due in New
York on October 1. Struggling to conceal Ins
chagrin, Theo. said he couldn t remembei
exactly, but “the exchange rate was very
heavy.” r A clumsy friend can be as annoy-
ing at'times as a candid one.
At the end of September, 1930, there was
£69,674,100 on fixed deposit in N.S.W.
banks and £62,576,400 in Victorian banks.
At the end of September, 1931, the figures
were: N. S. Wales, £61,790,500; Vic.,
£67,811.900. That’s one of the things for
which Lang is responsible. It helps to
explain why there are more than twice as
many unemployed in Lang’s State as there
are in Hogan’s, though Lang, unlike Hogan,
is afraid to publish weekly returns.
Just when the position seemed to be
improving, the Sydney branch of the Sea-
men’s Union has worked up another ship-
ping strike, and the Vic. slaughtermen, who
were getting 40s. Gd. per 100 lambs, have
struck (in defiance of their agreement) for
48s. per 100, the lamb-export season being
at its height. And one of the N.S.W.
railwaymen’s unions gleefully aa l\ oulu .'‘\ s
that it has had a repairer fined £2O, with
£4 10s. Bd. costs, in default a month s
imprisonment, for “accepting bonus pay-
ments against union rules.” Such things
make The Bulletin despair of Labor-
unionism. They exhibit it as utterly un-
patriotic, lawless and tyrannical. Ana it
that is going to be its spirit it will perish.
However powerful it may seem to-day
nothing will save it.
When the State debts were Federalised
spheres of taxation should have been
separated, once and for all. It could easily
have been arranged, the Commowealth tak-
ing income tax and leaving death duties
and imposts on land values and entertain-
ments to the States ; and a world of trouble
would have been avoided if it had been. A
great deal more money would be circulated
if there were not so much uncertainty
about taxes. People never know how much
they will have to pay till their Federal and
State assessments are in their hands; and
they are not sure then. So they are literally
afraid to spend.
In the chaos of Federal and State taxa-
tion laws injustice is heaped on injustice.
State unemployment-relief tax on net annual
income from property may be deducted from
income taxable by the Commonwealth; col-
lected from gross income in the form of
salary or wages, it may not be deducted.
This is the latest “ruling,” and it is of a
piece with a swarm of other “rulings’—
notably the “ruling” of Lang’s agents that
income from property in Victoria, though it
has borne Federal, Victorian State and "V ic-
torian unemployment-relief taxes, may, if
the taxpayer lives in N. S. Wales, be taxed
7|d. in the £ for doles in Lang’s State.
Of one of Lang's measures a Supreme
Court Judge said the other day (though
the papers didn’t report him), “How is one
to make sense of such rubbish?” Of
another it is complained that agents
don’t know how to apply the statutory
22i p.c. rent reduction to week-end or
holiday cottages or city offices or furnished
flats. It might be expected that the Lang
mob would be on hand to enlighten people
on these and a thousand other doubtful
points of legislation that was ground out
at the rate of three or four bills a day; but
five Ministers have gone to Adelaide —pre-
sumably on free railway passes—to take part
in a tuppenny-halfpenny Leg. Council elec-
tion.
While Ministers Davidson and Tully were
in Adelaide bellowing for the Lang-plan
candidate in the Leg. Council by-election,
and Ministers Gosling, Lamaro and McGirr
were preparing to follow, Minister Dunn
was accusing South Australia and Westralia
of “leeching on N. S. Wales” in the matter
of the wheat bounty. He also assured a
gathering of market-gardeners that he would
do what he could to prevent vegetables
from South Aus. and other States reach-
ing the Sydney market. His Govern-
ment has passed a law which will compel
the stamping of S. Aus. factory goods arriv-
ing in N. S. Wales, just as if they were
made by Chinese; and it has resorted to
The N. S. Wales Wreck : “Pat him on the
head, little boy. He’ll do all sorts of
tricks for you—as he did for me.”
various industrial dodges, as a result of
which coal is still outrageously dear in
South Aus., which has to buy N.S.W. coal
or go without. Still, the Lang mob has
peculiar ways, and perhaps these are only its
ways of showing how it loves South Aus.
The first clash between the New Guard
and the Communists produced one humorous
item. The Reds had staged a meeting at
Bondi, Sydney, to protest against a man
being asked to pay rent, when the cry was
raised that the Campbells were coming.
Police took charge and shepherded the pro-
testers away; then the voice of their leader
was heard. “Help the police, Comrades,” he
shouted; “they are doing their duty.’ A
case of “When the Devil was sick, the Devil
a saint would be,” with a vengeance.
The Hogans got a nasty jolt when Argyle’s
motion for the adjournment of the House
was carried against them, the conduct of
business being thus taken out of their hands.
The vote was a protest against their refusal
to provide funds for completing the Royal
Commission’s inquiry into the grievances of
overseas settlers ; Gray and McLachlan, who
usually stand by them, crossed the floor.
The incident shows how dependent the Gov-
ernment is on these Independents and the
third, Glowrey. A non-Dabor team would
be similarly dependent, and that’s why
Argyle is so keen on a general election.
One way of putting the matter is that
Freetrade in England has been killed by too
much applause. Snowden is (or was) the
hottest apostle of the lot. He was pre-
pared to swear that the Cobden system is
so blessed that it could stand payment of
a weekly wage of 30s. when Cobden would
have boggled at 255. He added a lot _ of
benefits to catch the Labor vote which
didn’t exist in Cobden’s time, and swore
that Freetrade could stand them all. He
went on rushing from one big noise to
another, until a financial committee of
inquiry was appointed. It reported a de-
ficit of about £150,000,000 in sight because
Freetrade couldn’t stand the racket; so
Snowden is about to retreat upstairs to the
House of Lords.
The clash of interests between the North
and South Islands of Maoriland was exem-
plified when 500 Southrons arrived at Well-
ington in a steamer they had chartered and
marched to Parliament, headed by kilted
pipers, to protest against the decision not
to complete the South Island main trunk
railway. In, the last 40 years the only
Administration that didn’t spend about four
times as much on public works in N.I. as
in S.I. was that of the Unitcds, during
whose regime the work of spanning the 65-
mile gap in the Dominion’s railway backbone
was put in hand. N.I. objected, and now
that it has a six-to-four majority in the
National Cabinet and a thousand good rea-
sons why money shouldn’t be spent on rail-
ways, it will take more than a pipe band
to get the missing link completed.
Following on a denial by Alf Jones,
M.L.A., that he had received any Mungana
money when Minister of Mines, Attorney-
General Macgroarty was asked whether cer-
tain cheques drawn by Goddard, one of the
defendants in the Mungana case, in favor of
Jones corresponded with dividends arising
out of the sale of the mines to the Queens-
land Government. He said they did, men-
tioning three Goddard cheques for £22 10s.,
£6O and £57 Is. Bd., made! payable to Jones,
as being identical with dividends on 100
Mungana shares. This Ministerial state-
ment revived interest in a subject of which
Queensland was thought to be utterly weary.
Jones’s account is that there was nothing
in his financial relations with Goddard
beyond mutual loans, a friendly exchange
of cheques; he insists that he had no
interest whatever in Mungana.
When in office in 1928 the H'ogans bought
Stonington, Malvern, for a State Gov-
ernment House, giving £35,000 in 5 1 p.c.
debentures. They now have the property on
their hands, and are trying to let it, but pluto-
crats capable of maintaining seven acres and
a staff of about 15 employees are few these
times. Before buying Stonington—it repre-
sented half of the Wagner estate —the
Government rented house, grounds and fur-
niture for 21 years at £lOOO p.a., and for
seven years at £2OOO p.a. The Wagner
family and executors showed good business
instincts if the State didn’t.
Work being regarded as a curse by Com-
monwealth, as well as State, Labor poli-
ticians, the Federal taxgatherers are knocking
off on Saturdays, except for a skeleton staff,
as it is called. One would think Federal
Labor would take warning from the story
of the man who was ruined through the
Lang Government’s neglect of the Word of
God. His cheque on the State Rural Bank
in payment of taxes reached the Govern-
ment department on Friday night, but as the
Government loafed on Saturday it didn’t
get in motion till Monday. And before it
got to its destination to be collected the
Government turned a good cheque into a
bad one by closing the bank.
Len Matters, the Labor M.P., who used
to be a Westralian journalist, has reached
England after a trip to Russia and come
back with the stuff his party wants. He
says he visited the Kara Sea region and
found that everybody was happy; “everybody
helped himself or herself” to food. The
region was closed against foreigners in
Czarist times, but the enlightened Bolsheviks
have thrown it wide open. There was nothing
there to throw save bears and wolves three
years ago, but the Bolsheviks have since
built Igarka, “probably the most extra-
ordinary town in the world” (cause of its
probable extraordinariness not stated).
“Apart from ships’ crews,” Matters reckons
he was the first Englishman in those parts.
Still it is on record that an English captain
named Wiggins started regular navigation,
despite Czars and bears and other animals,
as far back as 1875. Nowadays “the most
extraordinary town in the world” is so' encom-
passed with isolation and ignorance that
Matters didn’t know that England had an
election in prospect until he was going home
and got in touch with the civilised kingdom
of Norway.
Scullin has revealed that Lang did not
ask the Commonwealth Bank to take over
his Savings Bank (“repayment of deposits is
guaranteed by the Government of N.S.W.”)
till two days before the collapse. Yet any-
one but a disastrous ass would have moved
at least a month before; as Scullin says:—
After the Premier announced his policy of refusing
to pay interest overseas, and failed to meet some of
the interest due to the Savings Bank, withdrawals
increased alarmingly; in three weeks they amounted
to more than £4,000,000.
This architect of ruin seems to be most dan-
gerous to institutions in which he is supposed
to take a benevolent interest. His lottery
"Mr. Lang has retired to his country residence
on the Hawkesbury.”
“You capitalistic octerpus!”
has practically wiped out the old Eight-Hour
“art union,” on which Sydney Trades Hall
depended so much ; nearly all the Sydney
workers’ organisations had funds in his
Savings Bank; some of them are not paying
their rent; others arc cynically taking advan-
tage of his Rent Reduction Act. So the
Trades Hall is threatened with financial
collapse.
Australian Parliaments spend half their
time “correcting anomalies” (as they put
it) in the slapdash laws they pass; and
then they create more. The Federal
Financial Emergency Act laid it down
that State taxes on the incomes of
Commonwealth politicians and public ser-
vants should not exceed the rates in
force on June 30, 1030, unless the Gov-
ernor-General sanctioned increases. In the
inevitable amending bill it is provided that
the States may impose on the sheltered sec-
tion “the income-tax rates in force in South
Aus.” but they must go easy as regards
unemployment-relief tax, rates prescribed
being 3d. in the £ up to £250, 4-kl. on £251
to £5OO, and 6d. on £5Ol to £lOOO. In
N. S. Wales ordinary blokes pay Is. in the
£. Not a few officers are employed by
both authorities. For instance, the head of
the N.S.W. Taxation Department draws
£1394 p.a. as State Commissioner and £2BO
as the Deputy Federal man. On the £1394
he will pay Is. in the £; on the £2BO, 3d.
Presumably he will continue to demand 74d.
in the £ from N.S.W. citizens who have
paid Federal and local income and unemploy-
ment-relief taxes on receipts from property
in other States. Federal politicians are
keen on protecting public servants (and
themselves) against what the Prime Min-
ister calls “abnormal treatment,” but the
wrongs of private taxpayers leave them un-
moved.
Bernard Shaw stood on his head more
than usual regarding Russia. After men-
tioning how he hated being back in a
capitalistic country (where he has a Hert-
fordshire estate, a London flat and £lO,OOO
p.a.) he said:—
It is exceedingly difficult for Russians to believe
that we are so stupid as we really are. They have
a vast intellectual superiority; they had begun by
reading Marx. They look upon us as imbeciles.
And we can’t realise that we are imbeciles.
And then :—•
They have no particular objection to sleeping 10
in a room. Neither can they sleep alone for fear
of robbers and ghosts.
One of the reasons why Shaw stayed in
Russia for a week only probably was that
few suffer from robber or ghost complexes
in England.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
WHERE ANGELS AND DEVILS MEET.
“Isn’t it an angel of a hat!”
“Dunno—l expect it’s a devil of a price.”
“Philm”: The G.-G., over in Westralia
for the Show, was entertained at lun-
cheon by the R.S.L. Proposing the toast
of honor, Rabbi Freedman told how liis
attention had been attracted to a paragraph
in the last issue of a weekly paper, headed
“Lord Reading’s Double.” Remembering
the close analogy in name, religion, profes-
sion and subsequent achievements between
Rufus and Isaac Isaacs, he had read on,
prepared to assimilate a few biographical
details that might be useful on his Ex.’s
arrival. Only then did he find that the
“double” related to a performance by a
racehorse.
“C.Q.”: Whatever ritual is imposed by a
State funeral, such as was accorded to John
Monash, the Jewish ceremonial remains pre-
cisely the same as it was in King David’s
time, a model of stark simplicity. Whether
( lie deceased be prince or pauper, the body
is placed in a deal coffin without deco-
ration of any kind. The inscription
includes the name and the dates of birth and
death, with no honors or titles appended.
The body is garbed in a plain black shroud
and after death it is never left. A com-
mittee from the synagogue provides the
“wauchers.” Women are washed by women,
men by men. Monash himself was a mem-
ber of the committee of the St. Kilda syna-
gogue, which gives the same funeral to a
pauper who dies at a public hospital as to
a millionaire. The coffin is placed over
the grave while the simple prayers are said.
Relatives and friends do not leave the grave
until they have themselves filled it in, and it
is an honor to participate in that final cere-
mony. The period of mourning is 11 months.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: John Monasli had all his race’s
hereditary appreciation of interpretative art.
I can’t remember being at any worth-while
theatrical show or concert of good music in
Melbourne without seeing him amongst the
audience. But there is another less agree-
able duty that devolves on famous generals.
It is to lend the light of their countenances
to war plays, however bad. As guest of
honor, Monash was expected to sit through
four acts of a particularly bad example,
and he manfully faced the music from
a front seat for two of tnem. But
in the third act he was compelled to survey
an Australian battalion in action before
Bray, and the distinguished commander for
once was seen in full retreat. He told me after-
wards that he felt acutely his lack of cour-
tesy, but he couldn’t help it. The battalion
happened to be one of his particular favorites.
!!•■ * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: These dark days
are certainly sharpening the wits of some
folk. The man who goes around with a
short step-ladder, bucket and chamois-
leather offering to clean windows at a penny
each is quite a common sight, and so is the
chap with the car-washing and -greasing
outfit. But the most original operator I’ve
seen was an unemployed plumber who de-
scended on a rubbish dump with a firepot
and a bag of coke. The dump was mostly
old tins, a good breeze kept the pot at a
bright heat, and with the aid of two bobs’
worth of coke he ran 30 pounds of clean
solder out of the stack. Two other lads
descended on a sandhill near Glenelg (S.A.),
long a favorite haunt of canoodling couples,
and started to put the landscape through a
sand-screen with a shovel apiece. They
harvested enough to buy them an old car
and fit it up with a prospecting outfit.
!>! :]: * *
“Cato”: The cult of the clean shave seems
to have been adopted by the clergy more
wholeheartedly than by any other profession.
In most groups that consist chiefly of elderly
men will almost always be found one or
two who cling to the facial upholstery of
a past generation, but among the collec-
tion of Anglican bishops who came from all
over the Commonwealth to attend the Sydney
Synod never a beard was to be seen. Even
the side-whiskers, to which ministers of
religion clung long after they had been
abandoned by the majority, had almost com-
pletely vanished. I have a notion that most
children form their first vague impression
of a Supreme Being from the first man they
hear expounding Him from a pulpit. I know
I did, although I never realised it until years
afterwards. Arnold Bennett somewhere
mentions that the God dimly featured by the
Five Towns of liis youth was bearded and
moustached. He wouldn’t be nowadays.
* * * *
“Heads”: Among reminiscences of the
late Bertram Mackennal there is revived the
old story that when the present King en-
trusted the sculptor with
the job of modelling the
royal features for a new
issue of coinage he modestly
requested Bertram to “make
the best of him,” adding
that he was vaguely appre-
hensive of what some sculp-
tors might produce from the
available material. This the
artist doubtless did, filling
just the right blend of skill
and tact. British monarchs
probably were less sensitive
a hundred or two hundred
years ago; certainly if the
Georges were flattered or
even spruced up a bit on
minted sterling they must
have been an even homelier
lot than most of their sub-
jects suspected. But it was
with Victoria that the de-
signers had the hardest job.
She was a woman, and the
time came when she could
no longer be depicted as a
young and graceful one. The
trouble was that the gradual
transition of years had to be
emphasised abruptly on the
coinage; the picture clung
to so desperately long after
the subject became middle-
aged had to be superseded, or
merely remained to be com-
pared with the new one.
And, loyally as the designers
strove to “make the best of
her,” the Queen is said to
have wept disconsolately
when the change was accom-
plished.
* * *
“H. Hardupp”: Representations from Syd-
ney business interests led to an earlier hour
of the day being fixed for the N.S.W. State
lottery drawings. Shopkeepers in particular
found (and still find) that the sooner the
destination of the prizes is settled the better
for custom; also their employees are less
preoccupied. As against the few who buy
several of the 100,000 tickets for themselves
there are multitudes who make their pur-
chase on the bob-in principle, whilst book-
makers and the like do a brisk trade in
sevenths of a share. Certainly over a quarter
of a million people have an interest in each
drawing, and the number may easily be
half a million. As a matter of fact 21 were
the co-owners of a ticket that won a second
prize.
“L. 1.8.” : There seems to be some sort of
hoodoo attaching to the memorial to the
Australian and M.L. mounted troops who
fought in the Sinai and Palestine cam-
paigns. The movement for the erection of
the statuary began before the troops had
left Egypt, and the large sum of money sub-
scribed by them towards it was subsequently
supplemented by the Federal Government.
After years of delay the Victorian sculptor
Web Gilbert was given the commission.
He submitted a fine design which death
did not allow him to complete. Five years
ago the memorial was handed over to Ber-
tram Mackennal, who died last week. It
is said that he completed the group before
his death, and it is to be hoped this is so, for
while the Indian and British cavalry have
long had their memorial erected on the
Suez Canal, the Anzacs, who were there
before most of them and were styled by
Murray the “keystone of the defence of
Egypt,” have nothing to record their great
services.
“C. 8.”: Australia is likely to get more
opium and cocaine than ever (B. 7/10/’3l)
owing to the slackening of vigilance in the
Customs since the Government decided to
economise. Formerly all overseas steamers
were guarded night and day by Customs ofli-
cers; but now an incoming vessel is given
the once-over by searchers, an officer is on
duty aboard from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., after
which anyone can take contraband goods
ashore. Under new regulations some Cus-
toms men have lost as much as £5 or £6 per
fortnight in overtime, but the Government is
A LESSON IN BOOKKEEPING.
“Billy is always telling me he’ll be on the wrong side of the ledger directly. What
does he mean—how do boys get on the wrong side of a ledger?”
“Mostly in getting on the right side of a girl, I suppose!”
losing this many times over in revenue. Only
vessels with colored crews are watched dur-
ing the night, but seeing that nearly all
oversea boats call at eastern ports there
doesn’t seem much sense in the arrangement.
* * * *
“Turoar”: The higher a public servant
rises the riskier it is to credit him with any
sense of humor. My friend McNod was
recently transferred to the Midland district
(Vic.), after five years in a Mallee school.
The inspector called. At the end of a gruel-
ling day the visitor picked *up his hat and
said: “I’ve looked up everything now, Mr.
McNod, haven’t I?” “Well,” replied Mac.
thoughtfully, “there’s the chimney.” When
he read his next private report he swore off
gentle irony for ever.
sfc ♦ #
“Selma”: Behind me at the picture-show
sat a grazier and his four youngsters who
board in town to attend various colleges.
I soon gathered that it was Dad’s first
talkie. He thoroughly approved of the
Gazette, but became restive under the strain
of a film depicting German soldiers, all talk-
ing English with an American accent. When
the hero began to gamble for the heroine in
a crowded casino, Dad raised his voice in
protest. “Come on home, all of you,” he
commanded. “Think I pay the fees I do
for vour education just to have all the good
undone by this rubbish?” Despite protests
he lumbered out with his brood, whose looks
conveyed a firm determination not to take
Dad to the talkies again.
•£ •<:
“Pawang”: England is all cock-a-hoop
over a fresh German invasion, naaktlcnltur
having stolen across the Channel overnight,
so to speak. So swift has been the occupation
of the" country that, whereas
last year the devotees of the
cult were obliged to perform
their rites in the depths of a
wood, this year they ran races
and played games on top of
a hill. Moreover, their spokes-
man says that as soon as the
advantages in health, happi-
ness and innocence are under-
stood the whole land will fol-
low suit. This gives the im-
pression that the age of
Pericles has returned, but the
details don’t look so good.
The actual procedure is for
the men to wear loincloths,
the women brassieres and
pants, and the children up to
a certain age nothing at all.
In other words, what the
nudists do in effect is to point
a too-insistent finger at vari-
ous parts of their anatomy
and say, “Those are indecent,
these arc not.” They are do-
ing exactly what Mr. Ernest
Rolls does when he stages a
revue.
“F.S.”: Scene-painting is
about as ephemeral an art as
there is, but Phil Goatclier,
who died in Perth the other
day and whose connection
with the Firm in Melbourne
goes back 40 years, left some-
thing destined to live at least a year or two.
It is the mural decoration of the reading-
room at Menzies’ Hotel —the landing; of
Cook, a miner panning for gold, and various
scenes of rural life.
*
“Oxmead”: Among British election ameni-
ties it is recorded that the “Daily Herald”
published a photograph of Ramsay Mac-
Donald and Baldwin in friendly con-
verse with the caption “The Premier’s
Secret Tory Bargain,” insinuating that
the subject under discussion was elec-
tion funds. Actually the camera had clicked
when the Prime Minister and his pre-
decessor were fraternising at a meeting
held to forward the cause of international
peace, which gave Ramsay full warrant for
describing as “a rag” the newspaper that
could descend to anything so mean and con-
temptible. Possibly the “Herald” borrowed
the idea from O. Henry’s “Cabbages and
Kings,” where a South American republic
is thrown into a ferment over the report
that a visiting Englishman is on the way to
obtain valuable concessions from the Pre-
sident by underhand means. Both parties
promptly deny that any such thing is in
contemplation, but Keogh, nosing around the
official residence with a camera, secures an
excellent snap of the pair seated in the
garden, hobnobbing over bottles and docu-
ments. This he presently exhibits to the
unpopular President, asking what it is
worth, and gets 10,000 dollars pushed over
to him without more ado. But he imme-
diately decides that this sort of blackmail
is too repellent, tears the photo, into scraps,
and pushes it back, along with the money,
to the would-be-purchaser.
* :> * #
“FY7”: Interesting how history repeats
itself. Queensland recently started a craze
which is being taken up in other States —
the sending of a frozen lamb as a present
to relatives and friends in Britain. When
the writer was shipped to the Old Country
for allegedly educational purposes some time
in the 1880’s, another item on the ship’s
manifest was one lamb, frozen for family
consumption on the other side. A fog in
the Channel delayed delivery of both until
late on Christmas Eve, and a long drive in
the bitter cold of a Yorkshire winter in com-
pany with the other “colonial” has made
me hate the sight of frozen mutton to this
day.
if * * *
“Chevroford”: A cable announces the con-
struction of an iron road in Britain, but
the idea is not novel to Australia. The last
time I motored from Melbourne to Williams-
town I encountered a stretch of macadamised
road with flat iron rails laid on one side of
it. The rails were in perfect condition, and
I spun along them in great style. A baby
car ahead, however, was in a different posi-
tion. Its wheel-base was too narrow to
allow it to negotiate the rails and it was
floundering like a ship in a gale along the
ordinary thoroughfare, which had been
allowed to fall into a frightful state of de-
composition. The engineers hadn’t antici-
pated baby cars, apparently.
$ * ❖ ❖
“Centurion”: Some of the comments
evoked by the passing of John Monash
showed amazing ignorance of history. The
DIFFERED ON ONE POINT.
“Poor boy—he suffers so from that tired feeling.”
“I don’t think he suffers —do you?”
great soldier was rightly extolled as one
of the outstanding figures in that tiny group
of men who have turned aside from their
civilian occupations to play the game of
war. Yet the “Daily Mail” referred to him
as the “greatest untaught military genius
since the American General Grant.” Grant
was trained at West Point, one of the finest
national military schools in the world, and
served with the U.S.A. regulars until he
retired before the Civil War with the rank
of captain. The “Morning Post” said:
“Ludendorff admitted that the break-through
at Hamel was ‘Germany’s black day’”—
confusing the combat of July 4 with the
great battle of August 8. Some Aus-
tralian papers were almost as bad. One
of them wrote of the dead chief as “the
greatest civilian soldier the British race has
produced.” I dunno; I have in mind a
typical Briton domiciled in Virginia whose
name was George Washington. Also I recall
a Huntingdonshire squire who became famous
as a soldier under the name of Oliver Crom-
well.
ALLITERATIVE.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
“The Lang faction is nothing but a crowd of
leather-lunged lowbrows, whose status has been
reduced to that of slaves and factotums.”
—Federal Treasurer Theodore.
0 lieges of Lang, as you listen
To the thunder that rumbles and rolls,
Do your eyes with distressfulness glisten?
Is iron invading your souls?
Though your lord and your leader may revel
In hymnals of hatred and hiss,
Do you think that it’s quite on the level,
Such lip-lash as this?
Does it jar, being jumbled together
And labelled (alack and alas!)
As lowbrows whose lungs are of leather
To fit with their foreheads of brass?
Inured to invective that harrows,
Immune to ironical prods,
Do you reckon alliteral arrows
As over the odds?
You were bearing Democracy’s banner,
A bright and a brave brotherhood,
In the manfully militant manner
That Socialist soldiery should.
You were filled with the zest of the zealots
Who were scourges of czars and of dukes;
And he holds you a hotch-potch of helots
And Baslii-Bazouks!
Will they suffer such savageness sadly,
Or feign that it furnishes fun,
The bitter and bellicose Baddeley,
The docile and dutiful Dunn?
Will the goat of glib Gosling be gotten?
Will it sear beneath Davies’s skin?
Will Willis regard it as rotten
Or give it a grin?
O fiercely fanatical fellows,
The steam for whose spruiking escapes
From lungs that he likens to bellows,
’Neath brows that remind him of apes’,
Here’s a three-jewelled gibe with a jingle,
A sneer and a snarl and a snort
Whereunder the toughest might tingle.
Are all of you stuck for a single
Effective l’etort?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


any port in a storm.
“Hi, waiter! How is this? Stones in the soup. Do you expect me to pay j or stones?”
“No, sir— they’re — they’re thrown in. sir.”
“Tuberose”: A blank sheet of paper bear-
ing a postage stamp “attached at a rakish
angle” was an exhibit in the Sydney Divorce
Court the other day, and led to a puzzled
Judge asking if there was such a thing as
“a language of stamps.” A helpful counsel
thought he had heard of something of the
kind; a stamp affixed upside down conveyed,
he fancied, a declaration of love. I etitioner cut
in with the explanation that he had written
to his wife enclosing a stamp tor reply,
and the lady had returned it on the sheet in
the untidiest way possible. Seemingly it
had a message of sorts, but not a tender
one. If there is a language of stamps it is
a cipher to most, though books may be
obtained giving full information about
the language of flowers. Apropos of which,
at the Oxford Union a large book used to
be kept where questions of all sorts were
inscribed by members for anyone to answer
who could or cared to. Scanning the volume
I came across the query, indited possibly by
some romantic freshman: “Can anyone
recommend me a good book on the Language
of Flowers V” Opposite was scrawled by
some utilitarian, in script heavy enough to
obscure the names of two or three books
recommended : “Consult lady herself.
“C. Sandig”: The remark of the Mel-
bourne City Health Officer that the absence
of sunstroke in Australia was a new one
on him” is inexplicable, lor a generation
past medical students m Sydney have had
this fact impressed on them. Years ago
Professor Gregory’s expedition to Central
Australia was struck with the spectacle ot
the children of Oodnadatta playing bare-
headed in the sunshine and suffering no ill
effects. But continued exposure to the sun s
rays lias injurious effects to the skm ot
reddish-complexioned persons : it causes a
flaking of the skin known as the Australian
disease.” * *
“Der Jong”: A disgusted Australian who
made the regrettable error of carrying coals
to Newcastle is about to leave Capetown for
her native land, after having been convicted
of and fined for false pretences. Nevertheless,
she has a fair claim to having established
a precedent, for she is probably the first
Australian ever to be convicted under an Act
dealing with witchcraft. Her specialty was
fortune-telling and the sensing of tempera-
ments. South Africa, which has had a long
and expensive experience of the witch doctoi
and his female equivalent, has for years pro-
vided legislation against this special lorm
of gold digging.
* * * *
“P.S.”: The depresh is upending most of
the props on which the social life of pre-
slump Australia rested. The provision ot
the rent-money used to be the work-
er’s chief consideration. Whatever hap-
pened the landlord was paid. That
why so many wage-earners put their
savings into bricks and. mortar.. Unuei
the new Lang legislation it is prac-
tically impossible to get rid of a non-paying
tenant. The spectacle is common of citizens
living rent-free in houses on which the land-
lords are paying rates and taxes, and the
landlords are also being taxed to keep their
unremunerative tenants in free food. Doctors,
who usually collected last even in boom
times, are now being treated like pariahs.
In the old days those who didn’t pay them
at least remained friendly. A Melbourne
medico wearied of his outlaw status the
other day, and sued a man who owed him
f,‘lo-odd. According to the “Age” :
His Honor declined to make an order against
defendant, and directed judgment creditor to pay the
18s. expended by defendant in travelling to the court.
In many Sydney homes that used t°
be punctual with the rent, and that even
tossed the family doctor a stray note from
time to time, the essential weekly disburse-
ments in their order of urgency are. (1)
lottery sub., (2) Friday pictures, (3) Satur-
day s.p. wagers. If you criticise the
arrangement it proves you aren t a democrat.
* * =i= *
“Lao-dah”: Requiring the appropriate
atmosphere for one of the shots of Ihe
Sentimental Bloke,” EfEtce Films approached
the taipans of the Chinese community ot
Little Bourkc-street. It was arranged that
on a particular evening Chinatown would
be functioning in all its alleged glamor. Ihe
enormous paraphernalia required tor the
slightest bit of business, lamps of 25,U0!>
c.p., and the usual horde of technicians and
supernumeraries duly descended on an area
between Russell and Swanston streets, to
find every shop front barred, every door
closed, the whole lane in darkness and not
a solitary Celestial in evidence. Kuo-min-
tang escutcheons had . been removed and
tabiets covered with Chinese characters had
been cloaked in bits of sheeting. All that
could be ascertained was that a member ot
Thring’s general staff had made a jocular
remark to a Chinese bystander, in which
the Japanese were mentioned. Apparently
Ah Sin had concluded that the Mikado was
contemplating occupying Little Bourke as
well as Manchuria. I have seen even slighter
causes create worse results in Eastern sea-
portS - ,
“Exon”: Admittedly the evidence for the
suicide theory in the case_ of the constable
found drowned in the river shallows at
Bendemeer (N.S.W.) seemed convincing
(B. 14/10/’3l). The doctor’s opinion that
there was nothing to suggest foul play was
grounded (1) on his inability to find any
injury or abrasion on the body or damage
to the clothes, such as a struggle would have
left, and (2) on his diagnosis that there
were traces of strychnine in the stomach.
But since an expert analyst has pronounced
the second finding incorrect, the mystery
has deepened again. On the one side there
is nothing to support the theory of a crime
of violence committed by a madman or a
mysterious stranger, and nothing indeed to
show that either existed. But against this
must be placed the fact that the oflicer had
a good record and no known troubles or
worries. It looks a baffling case.
* * *
“Ivyn”: “Are you still in the hotel busi-
ness?” Judge Wasley asked a witness who
was giving mumbling answers to counsel's
questions in Vic. Supreme Court the other
day. The man in the box admitted that he
was one of the Bung contingent. “Then,
please realise that it’s up to you to shout
and let’s all be in it,” said ’Sonah smartly.
After that hint counsel and the official short-
hand-writer had no occasion to strain their
ears.
* * * *
“D.”: I got into conversation with the
ferry-boat engineer apropos luxury yachts.
“Of course Balokovic married money,” he
said. “But then look at the Duke of York.”
“Was his wife rich?” “Rich! Why do
you think he married her? She was a
daughter of old Cassell.” “A millionaire?”
“I should smile! Her dad’s the printer and
publisher. Own’s ‘Cassell’s Magazine.’ He
has enough to buy the Balokovics and Van-
derbilts twice over —and she’s the only
child. Gets the lot when old Cassell pegs
out —or, rather, the duke does.” Useless to
tell him that the duke’s father-in-law is so
hard up that he has been talking of selling
his Scottish home. I wandered silently off
musing on the Australian worker’s unique
capacity for swallowing picturesque misin-
formation. There are plenty of easily-acces-
sible reference books in which my acquaint-
ance could have fortified himself with the
facts about the Yorks, but he couldn’t be
bothered. It is one of the explanations ot
the successful careers of Jock Garden,
Donald Grant and the rest of our Trades
Hall imports. A politician or union official
HARD TIMES FOR CUPID.
“Come on out! Spring’s in the air!”
“What’s the good! So is all the young men’s money."
whose statements are accepted without in-
vestigation has an obvious advantage, an
if he is in the habit of doubting and check-
ing the statements of others his power is
immensely increased.
* * * *
“Mortiboy”: I am not at all sure that
“Bloggs” is right when he says that misers
in real life don’t gloat over their boards,
although they may gloat over their bank-
books (B. 7/10/’3l). Arnold Bennett
didn’t think so when, he drew Henry
Earlforward, that gripping figure of petty
avarice in “Riceyman Steps. There is
no mention of Henry having gloated over
his bank-book, but the pictures of him
revelling over the gold and notes stacked m
his safe are unforgettable. Mere cheque.,
we are told, left him cold; he even stipu-
lated that a wealthy American, buyer ol
hooks should pay him over £lOO in sterling.
The customer’s cheque though just as good,
would have awakened no such ecstatic
emotions in Henry’s breast. Another char-
acteristic of Arnold’s miser was that when
he got a soiled or tattered banknote he
would exchange it for a crisp, clean one at
the earliest opportunity. But I fancy there
are plenty of people guiltless of miserly ten-
dencies who part with dirty notes with less
regret than brand-new ones.
“Manana” : The position of exiled Spanish
royalties and would-be royalties is com-
plicated. When
Alfonso XIII. was
king, a Bourbon re-
lative named Don
Jaime, who was de-
scended from Don
Carlos, carried on
the hereditary job of
Pretender from
Italian soil. But
when Alfonso was
bumped off the
throne to which
Jaime had been pre-
tending there was a
touching reunion be-
tween the comrades
in misfortune, and
from lifelong enemies
they turned to fast
friend s —much as
animals that nor-
mally prey upon one
another are apt to
do on anything that
answers to a raft in
flood-time. At this
stage Don Jaime in-
continently died, and
his mantle as Pre-
tender No. 2 —-the
deposed king having
apparently become
Pretender No. 1 —
was grabbed by an
aged uncle, another
Alfonso, who lias
solemnly had himself
proclaimed King of
Spain from a safe
distance. So now
there are two Al-
fonsos in the field or
lurking round the
corner, which may
lead to further
trouble when or if
Spain should become
tired of republican-
ism. Until then, pre-
sumably, the ad-
herents of both will
have to be called
Alfonsists. Names like Carlos and Jaime fit
Pretenders much better.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I suggest that “Nordic (B.
23/9/’3l) and “Columba” (B. 30/9/’3l) are
both wrong, the former in his assertion that
the northerner is apt to look down on the
southerner on general principles, and the
latter in his correction that the fellow further
off the equator assumes a superiority complex
towards the chap nearer to it. It would be
much nearer the mark to say that the
dwellers in temperate and possibly sub-
tropical zones reckon themselves better men
than those either to northward or to south-
ward of them. Highland Scots may sneer
at Lowlanders, but so do Norwegians sneer
at Lapps and the wandering tribes that are
on the fringe of or in the Arctic circle. A
cultured European probably regards “the
naked negro panting at the Line” as no more
inferior to him than the Eskimo. In the
southern hemisphere, of course, you can t
apply the same rule, simply because them
are no indigenes worth speaking of sou’u
of Tierra del Fuego, where one of the most
backward races on earth was discovered by
Magellan. So that, in our part of the world,
the Maorilander, if he wants to look down on
anyone, must turn his eyes northward, there
being no inhabited Antarctic to turn them
on.
* * *
“Truis” • Glad to note that reference to
the “Cameronian Highlanders” as a non-
existent unit of the British Army (I*.
7/10/’3l). Sydney “Sun,’ m a recent letter
from its London correspondent, fell into the
same bloomer as the hero of “Bunco s’ para-
graph ; writing of a minor mobilisation in
which many units were mixed up, the scribe
referred to “kilted Gamcromans. Uw
Cameronians are the Scottish Lines, and,
not being a Highland regiment, do not
wear the kilt. Both the impostor of Ihe
Bulletin story and the “Sun corres-
pondent confused them with the Camerou
Highlanders.
“Pounce”: Touching the recent contro-
versy as to whether Judges should be per-
mitted to resume practice at the Bar atter
retiring from the Bench, a recent ruling m
the U.K. goes dead against it. In this case
it was Sir James O’Connor, a Lord Justice
CONFESSION.
THE COLONEL: “There are two periods in his life, my dear lady,
when a man doesn’t understand women.”
SHE: “Indeed! And when are they?”
COLONEL: “Before and after marriage.”
of Appeal in Ireland, applied for
re-admittance to the Bar. Chief Justice
Kennedy, who refused the application, gave
as his chief reason that the retired Judge
would still be regarded ps laying down the
law with judicial authority, and would thus
tend to overbear inferior courts, r urtlier,
it would be scandalous if he had, perhaps,
in the interest of a client, to argue or
explain away some point of law on wliicn
he had already given judgment while on
the Bench. In the end the applicant was
admitted as a solicitor, on giving an under-
taking that he would not seek personal aud -
ence in any court.
AN OCTOBER RHAPSODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world seems so full of a number of girls,
I’m sure we should all be as happy as earls.
Pork butchers and prophets,
We laugh at our Tophets,
Dream-drunk with delight of an olden per-
fume.
Ah! heart, you old rake, are you snared
who were sober?
How wild is the wine of this wanton
October?
(It must be October, the girls are in bloom.)
Would I were Keliama —you’ve read
Southey’s rhyme?—
Who entered four gates the same instant
of time;
I’d siege all the cities
Of peaches and pretties
In richest of raiment or poorest of rags;
Plump sheilas as pink as the bloom on
lantaua.
Dark crimson-lipped ladies as lithe as
Diana, , , , ,
And fairies with figures like three-bushel
bags.
Were I as that old mythological pot
I’d turn into a crowd and make love to
the lot;
Lynette and Lucinda,
And brune Rosalinda,
Whose laugh is a lyric I never could sing;
Eileen, with her legs and her lipstick, and
Netta,
The honey-haired one, and green-eyed
Nicoletta,
With tresses like flame-haunted shadows of
spring.
The trams and the trains as they creak up
and down
Are full of spring poets that frisk into town
For the obvious reason
That girls are in' season.
October ! Pardie, but my wits are in whirls !
Just answer one question; it’s earnest
and sober: ,
Do you bring the girls, or do girls bring
October?
(October won’t say, so it’s up to you, girls!)
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY .


ifl $
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Position 1 Vacant,
UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA.
Ralston Lecturer in Charge of the
Department of Biology.
/V IMPLICATIONS are invited for the above
appointment. Conditions may be
obtained from the undersigned or from the
Registrars of Australian Universities and
Universities and University Colleges in New
Zealand.
Entries close on the 20th November, 1931,
at 10 a.m.
L. R. THOMAS,
Registrar.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR OCTOBER.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
w
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melbourne was the birthplace in the
’sixties of some Australians who were to x-ise
to world-wide fame ; and 1931 has been the
death year of three : Melba, Monash and Ber-
tram Mackennal. The sculptor was two years
older than the general. He got his first les-
sons in his art from his father and at the
Melbourne Gallery school. Study in Lon-
don and Paris followed; he was the nrst
Australian to. be made an Associate of the
Royal Academy. Mackennal’s hand is to be
seen in statues and war memorials scattered
over the Empire, and there is even a coinage
to attest his reputation as an accepted
master of his craft.
For the first time in its history Tas.
University Council is to include a woman,
Mrs, Tom Murdoch (he is M.L.C.) being
among the four Councillors elected annu-
ally by both Houses of Parliament. As the
election is run under the Hare-Clark system,
and as only 33 of the 48 Parliamentarians
voted, the quota was seven. Mrs. Murdoch
scored nine, and thus rather surprisingly
replaces veteran Chancellor Elliott Lewis
on the Council.
No harnesser of science to new inventions
ever stood out so boldly above his contem-
poraries or spread his achievements over so
long a life as Thomas Alva Edison, who died
on Sunday at 84. Born in Ohio, of partly
Dutch and partly Scotch descent, Edison had
made his name familiar as a pioneer in scien-
tific discoveries and developments when men
who are now old were children. Almost until
the end his activities never slackened and
he was always finding fresh avenues for
them. He lived in an age which was to
see many of civilisation’s most rapid and
amazing developments and what the world
owes to him is incalculable.
Monty Grover will see the “World” to
press next Monday. This is the paper which
the A.W.U. financed back in the days when
the well-beloved Donald Macdonell was its
head, and whose issue was stopped by the
war and its staff scattered. Ex-Prime
Minister Watson was to have been in charge;
he gives most of his time to the N.R.M.A.
these days. D. J. Gilbert, his right hand,
is in charge of the “News,” Adelaide’s even-
MONTY GROVER, editor of Sydney’s new
evening -paper, “The World”
ing paper. C. A. Jeffries and others have
gone over the hill. But Grover, who has had
more experience at bringing newspaper
infants into the world than anybody else
in Australia, has had, unfortunately, a horde
to choose from; and if his staff doesn’t
produce a paper that Sydney can be quite
proud of, it won’t be the staff’s fault.
Dr. Sze, who is fighting (China's cause in
English with an American accent before the
League of Nations, was educated at Cor-
nell. He held positions under the Manchus,
and succeeded in weathering the revolution,
when he became Minister of Posts and Com-
munications. He has had a long course in
European diplomacy, having been Minister to
Great Britain and America. He was Chinese
delegate to the Washington Conference,
whereat the Great Powers, including Japan,
swore to respect China’s integrity.
F. W. Clements succeeds the late John
Monash as chairman of Vic. Electricity
Commission. There has been a big cut in
the pay—from £3OOO to £1575. Until the
Melbourne Electric Supply Co. was absorbed
by the Elec. Com. Clements was chief
engineer and managing director of that
concern.
P. G. Stewart, the clean hard fighter
whose death the House of Reps, mourned
last week, was a quick thinker and worker ;
his trouble was
The late
P. G. STEWART.
that he often didn’t
think long enough.
Though he was
only 46 when he
died he had been
14 years in Parlia-
ment ; and before
getting there he
had been a paper-
seller in Mel-
bourne, a boy in a
bottle works, a
seaman (he got his
master’s ticket,
too), a farmer in
Canada, finally
(1914) one of the
first settlers at
Ouyen, in the
Mallee. Character-
istically he started
in the Vic. Assem-
bly, resigned with-
in a few months
and sprang over to
the Reps., joined
th e Bruce - Page
Ministry, resigned,-
formed an Inde-
pendent Country
party, and went
back to the Page
group last year.
He would never
have got far in
politics; he was
not accommodating
enough. But he
was transparently
honest, and could _ part from friends with-
out making enemies of them. ’Flu and
pneumonia killed him in two days.
Stewart’s best monument will be his farm
at Ouyen. He took up a virgin block of 600
acres, and had the usual rough spin, but
stuck to it gamely. Moreover, he was a
scientific farmer and induced the Agricul-
tural Department to use a portion of his
place for experiments. What they discovered
has been of incalculable value to the wheat-
grower.
Thomas Hunt, of the Kilmore (Vic.)
“Free Press,” who kept his 90th birthday the
other week, may surely claim to be the
doyen of Australian newspapermen. He
commenced setting type in ’5B, produced the
first copy of his “Free Press” in ’65, was
one of 70 Liberals elected to support Graham
Berry during the time of “broken heads and
flaming houses” in ’74, and is the sole sur-
vivor of that militant dan. After 73 years
of strenuous journalistic life, he is still keen
on his job.
At 89 Joseph Sabelberg, of Melbourne,
must be the oldest barrister and solicitor
in Australia. H'e came to Australia from
France at the age of 12, and was admitted
in 1868. Mrs. Sabelberg, who died a few
years ago, was a daughter of Charles Bren-
tani, the Collins-street jeweller who pur-
chased the first gold ever discovered in Vic-
toria from Thomas Chapman, the shepherd,
in 1849.
The distinction of launching the first writ
for alleged libel against an Australian broad-
casting co. goes to Max Meldrum, who is
suing the A.B.C. The claim arises out
of a lecture broadcast from 3AR by
Stephanie Taylor, a Melbourne artist, entitled
“Art Schools of Australia and Their Lead-
ers : Max Meldrum, the Iconoclast.” Miss
Taylor was one of Meldrum’s early pupils.
The Speck Education Department is
mourning the death of two of its oldest -and
best-loved school inspectors in one week.
George Heritage (Brig.-Gen. Heritage, of
Sydney, is a son) retired from the senior
inspectorship seven or eight years ago. He
was 80 when the final bell rang. Albert
L. Brockett retired from the senior place
seven months ago. He was 71 at roll-call.
Bernard Parker, Westralia’s Clerk of
Parliaments for many years past, has just
retired. Parker was a London lawyer before
he came overseas in 1902 to fill a vacancy
as Parliamentary draftsman. His dad was a
knight and a president of the Incorporated
Law Society, and his wife was a baronet’s
daughter. He was always on excellent terms
with Ministers and members, irrespective of
party, and was something of a student of men
as well as bills.
Leonard Matters, the latest British M.P.
to journey to Russia and return with the
assurance that there are no such things as
slavery or short commons in the remote
timber camps, was in Sydney eight years
ago; he is a South Australian, but Perth
was the scene of most of his journalistic
experiences in this country. He sits in the
House of Commons for the Kennington divi-
sion of Lambeth, where in 1929 he defeated
his single opponent (a Conservative) by a
trifle over 3000 votes.
Within sight of his 85tli mile-nost, Mackay
Scobie Gair, a former member of Vic.
Assembly, passed out at Burwood, near
Melbourne last week. It was something of a
surprise when he captured a northern subur-
ban constituency (Bourke East) in 1897,
but he held on to it until it was wiped out
in 1904. During his first term lawyers pre-
dominated in Vic. Assembly; Gair was one
of 16.
There is little to suggest the academic
type in burly A. L. G. Mackay, who has been
appointed Professor of Banking and Econo-
mics at Rangoon University. He was a foot-
baller of consequence as well as a taker of
degrees at Sydney University. When the
war came he was teaching at All Saints’ Col-
lege, Bathurst; he served in the ranks and
returned with a D.C.M. For the last few
years he has been a lecturer at the Adelaide
Uni. R. W. G. Mackay, who has been put-
ting the case for the Soviet at the Tariff
Board’s inquiry into Russian timber, is a
younger brother.
One of Papua’s old identities, Harry
“Solomon,” has gone over the range to Raka.
No one knows how old Harry was, but when
he joined Billy Macgregor’s Armed Native
Constabulary some time in the lS9o’s he had
been working for years on the Queensland
sugar plantations, whither he went from his
birthplace in the Solomons. The pleasant
old Kanaka was a well-known identity in
Samarai, whence he used to come occasion-
ally from his Milne Bay home, and he was
a mine of legend concerning his revered chief
of other days, “Bili Makereka.”
C. E. D. Meares is retiring this year from
the general managership of the Sydney Pro-
ducers’ Co-op.; he is to be succeeded by
Major J. R. King, sometime Australian
manager for Weddels. Meares has devoted
the best part of a long life to inducing men
on the land to co-operate in the marketing
of their produce. Once a ledger-keeper for
the South Coast and West Camden Co-op.,
he formed the Coastal Farmers. This con-
cern developed into the Producers’ Co-op.
Distributing Soc., a member of the big Pro-
ducers’ Wholesale Co-op. Federation, which
he had a hand in forming. In this connection
he proposed the establishment of a London
selling floor for Australian products, which
has proved very successful. The Australian
Federation is in its turn a member of the
Overseas Farmers’ Co-op. Federation, which
combines Australian, Maoriland and S’African
farmers’ interests, and from which has
branched forth Empire Dairies, Ltd. In
all these co-operative ventures Meares has
taken an active part.
At 77 Dr. Charles Clubbe is still one of
the busiest men in Sydney; and most of his
labor is done for love, as it always has been
—for 36 years he was bon. surgeon to
the Alexandra Hospital for Children and
for 19 to the Prince Alfred. His work for
the kiddies has bedded him heart-deep in
the affection of tens of thousands of mothers.
DR. CHARLES CLUBBE.
Though he no longer does much of the opera-
tive work which made him famous, he still
almost lives at the various children’s hos-
pitals and training homes for babies’ nurses
—he was a figure at the annual meeting of
Tresillian last week. He got his own train-
ing at Barts, in London.
If the times were less penurious Fred
Furkert, under-secretary and chief engineer
of Maoriland’s Public Works Department,
would be rejoicing over the return of Gordon
Coates to the Ministry. When Coates sand-
wiched Public Works into his Priministerial
portfolio in 1925 he had perforce to lean
heavily on Furkert, who became a mighty
F. W. FURKERT, M.L. Engineer-in-Chief.
power in the land, and towards the end of
the Reform regime was practically telling
the Shivery Isles what public works it might
and might not embark upon. The Ward
crowd had other ideas. F'urkert has been
37 years with the department, and has an
encyclopaedic experience of civil engineering
in his own country, buttressed by a world
tour in 1913. He has been permanent head
of Public Works since 1920.
Brisbane “Telegraph” has lost a sound
journalist and an able racing writer in Fred
Deady (“Lampus”). He was only 40. Deady
was an old schoolmate and lifelong friend
of Alec Chisholm, Australia’s best-known
ornithologist.
Robert Renzow, who was mentioned
recently in Tiie Bulletin as the oldest ex-
State schoolteacher in Vic., was not destined
to reach his century. He passed out last
week at his home in Marshalltown at 99
years and 9 months.
When The Bulletin’s Service Depart-
ment is in doubt about a point in navigation
or the date of a wreck it drops in on Captain
Francis Bayldon, who conducts the only
nautical school in Sydney. A Lincolnshire
native, in his early years he served before
the mast in the clipper ships Devitt and
Moore, which plied between London and
Australia; then followed a period on the
Canadian-Australian run in the Aorangi and
Warrimoo. Burns Philp secured him next,
and he skippered Island boats, incidentally
making numerous charts that were utilised
by the Admiralty-—he is retired Commander
R.N.R. In 1910 Bayldon settled ashore and
established his school, which coaches about
85 per cent, of Australian marine officers.
Angus and Robertson commissioned him to
compile the list of wrecks —over 6000 —in
their “Australian Encyclopaedia.” A pro-
lific writer on nautical subjects, he is an
active member of several geographical and
historical societies.
Bishop Elsey, of Ivalgoorlic, over in
Sydney for the General Synod meeting,
comes, like his predecessor, Dr. Golding-
Bird, from Lincoln College, Oxford, but
they have little else in common. Ivalgoorlie’s
first Bishop, who was previously Dean of
Newcastle, never believed in hiding his
light under a bushel, and resigned the newly-
created see after five years (1914-19;,
returning to England in quest of something
better. He is now Bishop of Mauritius. His
successor began his church experiences in
London’s East End. and was a hard-work-
ing member of the Bush Brotherhood in the
diocese of Bunbury (W.A.) when the epis-
copal gaiters arrived. He is a very earnest
divine, for whom publicity has no appeal.
W. B. House has retired from the job of
Curator of Intestate Estates in Vic. after
48 years in the service. ,T. Ross, Commis-
sioner of Titles, is to be the new Curator.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Kct To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 42,241 10 p.c. = r>4,750 70,009
1925.. 81,065 10 „ „ 69,000 12,065 52,074
1926.. 89,090 10 „ „ 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 111 „ „ 79,350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10* „ ~ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 90,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ ~ 45,000 6,272 177,832
* Half-year.
For this eo. the slump began early in 1930,
and it got slumpier as unemployment spread
and spending was curtailed, though trade im-
proved slightly during the six months to the
close of last accounts. Further, price-cutting
(due to a scramble for ready cash), a steady
recession of values and the hand-to-mouth
trading policy of retailers narrowed profit
margins and reduced turnover ; also taxation,
direct and indirect, made its weight felt. So
there was a contraction of £32,506 in gross
profits (£79.547). Administrative charges,
etc. (£28,275), were £0775 lighter, leaving
the net result at 5.7 p.c. on average
capital compared with 8.8, 12.6, 12.6, l->—
and 12.9 p.c. back to 1926. Hence a further
three points were nicked off the div., reduc-
ing it to 5 p.c.
Recause wrnrld developments have brought
about under-consumption, these textile con-
cerns have not got the benefit expected from
the emergency tariff and other measures.
However, the fall in sterling has given our
national income an encouraging lift, and
thus put more heart into traders, though
exchange is a flimsy peg on which to hang-
hopes of stability. Nevertheless, provided
costs can be curbed, prospects for local
manufacturers should improve as economic
reconstruction proceeds : and _ those _ best
equipped technically and financially will be
the first to benefit.
The A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group is Aus-
tralia’s biggest textile enterprise, with in-
terests in all sections of the trade. Yarra
Falls, which turns out yarns, woollens, wor-
steds, etc., took over the Globe Woollen
Mills, Sydney, for £150,000 on a share-for-
share basis in 1929. Last year it took up
a further £lOO,OOO of the Globe Co.’s scrip,
which was issued in exchange for part of an
advance made to finance extensions to pre-
mises and plant. This subsidiary earned a
profit during the last term, but apparently
not enough to pay a div. Yarra’s other
holdings include 50,000 shares in A.K.M.,
which specialises in underwear; 35,500,
Austral Silk and cotton; 30,000, Julius
Ivayser (Aust.) Pty., and a small but un-
specified number in Rayon Pty.—these last
two concerns cater for the silk hosiery and
lingerie trade.
During the last three years no less than
£357,581 has been added to the book value
of shares in other cos., and the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors has been reduced by
£156,039 net. To do all this £150,000 of
scrip was exchanged, £60,000 of cash-paid
capital was got in, and liquids were drawn
upon for the balance :
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £690,000 £837,183 £900,000 £900,000
Sundry creditors
and deposits 226,109 99,455 236,464 70,070
Freeholds . . 198,239 200,194 156,327 153,642
Plant, etc. . . 546,947 559,117 263,145 256.364
Stocks.. .. 344,528 289,446 216,773 149,049
Sundry debtors 126,386 147,143 101,431 51,778
Advances .. - 149,301 71,660
Cash, etc. .. 204,485 164,150 307,197 141,195
Shares in other
cos 10,500 158,539 162,219 368,081
Thus, during the last term stocks were re-
duced by £67,724, debtors’ balances by
£49,653, advances by £77,641 and cash, de-
posits, etc., by £166,002. The sum thus
made available, together with surplus earn-
ings, etc., enabled £166,394 to be wiped
off the debt and £205,862 to be added to
shares in other cos. Altogether the more, or
less liquid surplus (£.343,612, including
stocks but not shares) was £194,626 lighter
than at the close of accounts in 1930. In-
cidentally, Marks and Saulwick, who are
interested in the hosiery and lingerie sec-
tions of the organisation, have become dis-
tributing agents for the group; this may
have some connection with the reduction in
book debts and stocks.
On the market the pound shares, which
fetched 18s. a year ago, rose sharply from
20.5. 6d. to 235. within the last few weeks.
The return at 235. is 4.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.1 p.c. if the div. should rise to
7 p.c. The backing is 235. lid. in net tan-
gibles, subject to any goodwill, etc., there
may be in the shareholdings.
Henry Berry and Co. (Australasia), Ltd.
t Dividends. Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 40,329 21,394 5 p.c. - 14,700 4,235 4,235
1922.. 53,017 21,394 7* „ ~ 22.050 9,573 13,808
1923.. 62,985 21,394 84 ~ .. 24,990 16,601 30,409
1924.. 51,813 21,394 8| ~ „ 24,990 5,429 35,838
1925.. 57,143 25,044 84 „ „ 24,990 7,109 42,947
1926.. 71,335 25,462 8-1 ~ ~ 24,990 20,883 63,830
1927.. 67,824 26,645 84 „ ~ 24,990 10,189 80,019
1928.. 71,393 31,391 8* .. ~ 24,990 15,012 95,031
1929.. 64,055 32,245 81 „ „ 24,990 6,820 101,851
1930.. 56,375 32,245 5* „ „ 14,700 9,430 111,281
1931.. 36,193 33,111 Nil 3,082 114,363
At August 31 this holding concern had
£891,259 invested in a group of subsidiaries,
which trade in wholesale groceries and
butchers’ supplies tlu’oughout Australia and
Maoriland. But the curtain is kept drawn
over the operating cos.’ figures, so outsiders
know little of the real position.
Still, the pups appear to have been an
energetic lot. Since 1921 the holding co.
has put up £293,209 of share and deposit
moneys to finance the growth of the respec-
tive undertakings, including the erection
a new warehouse in Brisbane, extensions
the Perth and Wellington (M.L.)
and purchase of part of the old-established
drygoods business of James Service and
Melbourne. Moreover, members ot the group
have sent along enough for the parent o
meet its own pref. requirements, pay tne
ords. a run of S ', p.c. divs., which have been
interrupted by the slump, and to accumu-
late £114,303 of reserves at Aug. 01.
Though this kind of business holds fairly
well in dull times, the spread of unemploy-
ment, fall in prices and restriction of demand
to cheaper lines, carrying narrow P r ont.
margins, caused a sharp contraction in last
year’s turnover, while exchange and taxa-
tion made outgoings difficult to curb. L hus,
divs. and interest received (£44,228) were
£16,336 lighter, being 4 p.c. on the combined
book value of shareholdings and advances,
compared with 4.2, 7.9. 7.5 and 9.8 p.c. back
to 1927. Exes. (£8035) sprang £3846, due
mainly to the super-tax, leaving the net.
result only £3082 in excess of the pref.
requirements; the ords. went hungry.
During flic year an extra 24,750 B profs,
were issued, raising paid capital to £n.J,c59U
in 280.000 A and 205.390 B prefs., both <
p.c. cumulative, and 294.000 ords. There
was little change in the debt (£31,349) or the
shareholdings (£573,110). Cash (£0b,190)
was drawn upon for £24,371, and £07,13l
was added to advances to subsidiaries
(£318,149). How the pups used the money
can, of course, only be guessed at; but whole-
salers are obliged to employ substantial
amounts in carrying retailers’ stocks, and
debtors' balances have become a perplexing
problem.
However, the lift in prices for our staples
has improved the immediate outlook, though
it is difficult to say to what extent earnings
in the dry-goods trade will benefit. The
public is interested mainly in the A shares,
which rank equally with the B’s for both
div. and capital. At 17s. the A’s return 8.2
p.c.; the visible cover is 365. lOd. in net
tangibles, subject to any goodwill, etc., there
may be in the subsidiaries. The B shares
and the ords. are held largely by those in
the business.
Automobile and General Finance Co.
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ & £
Preliminary exes., £42,709 .. • ■ 42,709
1927.. Nil 42,709
Added preliminary exes., £6567 . . 49,276
1928.. 23,243 Nil 72,519
Forfeited shares, £3894 . . • • 68,625
Reserves.
4s. per share ( £82,511) struck off .. 13,886
Forfeited shares, £935 .. .. •• 14,821
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£14,821
June, Profit.
1929.. 7,643 6 p.c. = 7043 600 600
1930.. 5,738 5 „ „ 5869 469
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 2,831 Nil 2 > 362
This is another purveyor of hire-purchase
and time-payment credits which quickly got
into deep water. It set up in Sydney in
March, 1926, and two years later was short
of £72,519 of its then paid capital of £198,348
—share-selling exes, had run off with
£46,001. and bad debts with most of
the balance. These debts were insured
against, but the terms of the policy had not
been strictly observed, so the insurance co.
refused to pay. Then, thoroughly dissatis-
fied, shareholders changed the control, and
the new board set to work to tidy up.
To begin with, the uncalled 10s. of each
20s. share was cancelled, and then 4s. per
share (=£82,511) was lopped off paid capi-
tal, reducing it to £117,382 in 10s. shares
paid to 6s. The cut wiped out the deficit, and,
including profits on forfeited shares, pro-
vided an additional £14,821 as a reserve
against further bad debts, making the total
so set aside £19,315. This cleared the way
for the appearance of profits, and two mod-
erate but liberal divs. were paid in ’29 and
’3O. But the slump, including the spread of
unemployment, has restricted lending and
brought a fresh crop of bad debts. Thus, for
the 12 months covered by the last accounts,
there was a slip of £4495 in gross earnings
(£11,195), and, after striking off £7777 for
bad debts as against £3093 in the previous
term, a loss of £2831 showed up, leaving a
debit of £2362 in the p. and 1. account. That
is disregarding a net reduction of £2210 in
the doubtful debts reserve (now £19,790),
which is not included in the table.
The financial position slipped, of course.
A drop of £24,203 in the book value of
advances was accompanied by a reduction of
only £7920 in the debt:—
March, .Tune, June, June,
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £198,348 £117,383 £117,383 £117,383
Overdraft .. 9,756 6,575 13,806 5,975
Creditors . . 2,213 704 491 402
Book debts . . 148,324 148,171 146,578 122,375
Fittings, etc. 457 863 826 756
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 14 7,027 15,172 15,951
Foreclosures.. 4,298 4,333 4,362 4,362
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£131,949) was £15,504 lighter than at the
previous balance. Everything, of course,
depends upon the soundness of debtors’
balances, and the moratorium has greatly
complicated the problem in this respect. Also
keener competition for less business at re-
duced rates, further cuts in trade discounts
and heavier taxation have helped to fill the
outlook for this class of business with un-
certainty.
The scrip, which is not listed, is covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 9s. lOd.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 42,142 261 p.e. = 32,812 9330 23,261
1925.. 17,948 124 „ ~ 15,738 2210 21,051
1926.. 7,818 5 „ 7,500 318 20,733
1927.. 18,014 10 ~ „ 15,000 3014 17,719
1928.. 26,791 124 ~ „ 18,750 8041 9,678
1929.. 20,635 10" ~ ~ 15,000 5635 4,043
1930.. 16,850 8f ~ ~ 13,125 3725 318
Written off, £5784 6,102
1931.. 7,650 5 p.c. ~ 7,500 150 5,952
*lO months.
Last year fresh milk was cheap and plenti-
ful ; thus the powdered article, which this
co. manufactures, could be turned out at
lower cost. But the selling price of the
powder had to be reduced, too, stocks were
hard to move, and exchange increased the
outlay on tin-plate, used in the manufac-
ture of the co.’s containers. .
Thus there was a .slip of £10,13S m gross
profits (£20,684), while exes. (£13,034, in-
cluding provision for taxation) were only
£93S lighter, leaving the net result at 5.1
p.c. on capital as against 11.2, 13.7, 17.8, 12
and 5.2 p.c. back to 1926, when the figures
were affected by the failure of a subsidiary,
formed to manufacture milk jelly. So the
div. was reduced to 5 p.c., making the aver-
age over the last eight years ITJ p.c.; it
has been worth a lot more to old holders, paid
capital having stepped up from £30,000 to
£120,000 by bonus issues in the reconstruc-
tions of 1922 and 1923. Incidentally, there
was a loss of £5784 of capital due to the
scaling down of Government securities. This
was written off against reserves, leaving
them £5952 short of goodwill (£35,000)
when the books closed.
Finances are comfortable enough :
1925. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £144,762 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 15,747 9,0.28 12,072 11,001
Freehold . . 19,926 21,725 21,529 20,255
Plant, etc. .. 48,013 42,387 43,445 44,017
Shares in other
cos.. . . . 850 100
Stocks . . 77,179 29,874 31,906 36,938
Book debts . . 1,395 18,651 15,947 14,352
Cash, invest- _ , „ „ „ _
merits, etc. 1,457 42,491 56,427 43,23 a
Thus, to pay the div., carry an extra £5032
of stocks and snip £lO7l off the debt, cash,
etc. (now £23,235) was drawn upon for
£2908 and the book value of Government
securities (£20,000) was reduced by £10,284,
including the writing down. The slip in
the more or less liquid surplus (£83,525, in-
cluding stocks) was £8683.
The immediate outlook is for another
good season, and cheap milk; and the price
of the powder has been further reduced since
the books closed. Much will depend upon
the co.’s success in developing other lines,
manufacture of which is under considera-
tion. The scrip has not an active market.
Associated Dominions Assurance
This is the Sydney concern which was set
up a little i over three years ago to reinsure
the risks of the Associated Deposits Assur-
ance Society, Ltd., and A.N.A., Ltd. The
Deposits, Society was registered in 1926, and
was limited by guarantee; it was the up-
shot of the trouble into which the A.IS.xU,
Ltd., got itself when it extended to Victoria.
Thus the business, or a great part of the
business, of what are virtually two mutual
concerns has been transferred to an ordinary
joint-stock limited liability co., not by direc-
tion of the policy-holders, but by reinsur-
ance.
The promoter of the Dominions, who was
also connected with the management of the
other two, was to get £20,000 in fully-paids
—£6200 in 1928 and the balance in annual
instalments —for arranging the reinsurances.
At June 30 paid capital was £19,409 in £1
shares—ls,4o7 fully-paids and 26,680 paid
to 3s. Cash-paid capital was thus £4002,
of which £667 (= 6d. per share) was got in
during the 12 months to June 30 last.
When the books closed in 1930 the actu-
ary was measuring up liabilities under poli-
cies; the result is not mentioned in the
latest report. Also, early in the term, the
life business of the Farmers’ and General
Assurance Corp. was bought. The price
mentioned at the time was £4OOO. Liabili-
ties under policies taken over amounted to
£33,407, and about £29,000 of annual pre-
miums was to come over, too. At June 30,
1930, the Dominion’s assurance and reserve
funds totalled £93,830; the figure had grown
to £158,868 at June 30 last, a difference of
£65,038, of which £32,016 was accounted for
by the year’s surplus of incomings over out-
goings. Apparently the other £33,000-odd is
the amount by which the funds fell short of
liabilities under policies, etc. The books
were balanced by adding £42.007 to_ the
establishment account, raising it to £87,124
—the addition includes whatever was paid
for the goodwill of the F. and G. plus £4600
handed to the promoter in paids.
What there is to represent the assurance
funds (now £153,016) the following figures
show: —•
1929. 1930. 1931.
Government securities. £28,350 £49,770 £63,950
Cash . . .... 547 965 651
Mortgages . . . . 2,613 3,206 21,025*
Book debts, etc. . . 4,280 14,060 12,982
Equipment . . .. 3,051 3,999 4,315
Total .. .. £38,841 £72,000 £102,923
Sundry creditors . . 3,303 7,560 10,000
Net tangibles .. £35,535 £64,440 £92,923
*lncludes loans on policies.
Thus the year’s growth in net tangibles,
which include premiums in suspense (£1553
at June 30), was only £28,483. So, assum-
ing that the Assurance funds exactly state
the liabilities under policies, net tangibles
were £60,093 short of the mark when the
books were ruled off.
What are the co.’s prospects of making up
this apparent leeway 7 Under existing con-
ditions they are far from bright. The busi-
ness is small, very expensive and diffi-
cult to hold, and the drift may continue
further yet before it is arrested. For the 12
months to the close of accounts in ’3O net pre-
mium income from all sources was £72,401.
The F. and G. business should have lifted
the figure above £lOO,OOO for the last term;
actually it was £53,335. Obviously there
has been a heavy crop of lapses, much of
which probably mean a dead loss to the
co. as well as to policy-holders. The most
satisfactory solution of the difficulty would
be the amalgamation of the whole mob of
these striplings, thus permitting a substan-
tial reduction in costs.
In the Ordinary branch £132,891 of new
business was put on the books last year.
Exes. (£11,472) made off with 64.3 p.c. of
the net premiums (£17,601) and claims
took £2248, leaving a surplus of £3BBl.
Industrial premiums, etc., totalled £65,734,
of which exes. (£37,741) swallowed 57.4
p.c.; and claims amounted to £5804; the
surplus was £22,189. Interest brought in
£5279. equal to but 3.4 p.c. on the Assur-
ance funds at the close of accounts. The
surplus in all departments combined
(£31,349) was only £4546 better than the
previous year’s.
Since the books were ruled off the life
business of the Australian Benefit has been
taken over; price not mentioned. About
800 policies are to be transferred, liabilities
under which are set out at £15,000. To
cover this the Dominions is to get £6OOO
in Government securities, £2OOO mortgages
and £7OOO in unspecified assets.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
, : Dividends
, Pref. —
June, Profits. 9 p.e. 8 p.e. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ z £ £
79,466
1926*. 26,645 4616 124 p.e. =15,938 73,375
Added prelim, exes., £2227 .. 75,602
1927.. 40,216 6750 464 121 p.e. =21,250 63,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O . . • • 63,940
1928.. 41,140 7516 6985 124 p.e. =22,770 59,571
Establishment exes., £9466 .. .. 69,037
1929.. 33,272 9000 8000 10 p.e. = 20,000 72,765
Added establishment account, £lOBl . . 73,846
1930.. 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.e. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,421 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
*Nine months.
When this co., in 1925, took over the Aus-
tralian portion of the newspaper business
carried on first by John Norton and then
by John’s trustees, things were booming,
and 9 p.e. to the prefs. and 12-4 p.e. to the
ords. was paid with comfort. So additions
were made to the plant in all the States,
and the co. built itself a new home in
Sydney. To help finance the outlay £155,000
of fresh scrip was issued, raising paid capi-
tal to £400,000 in 100,000 9 p.e. first prefs.
and a like number of 8 p.e. seconds and
200,000 ords.
No sooner had the co. got into its new quar-
ters than advertising revenue began to slip
and other papers trespassed on “Truth’s”
special field; one in particular did no
good for itself, but probably collared some
of “Truth’s” circulation. Thus, from one
cause and another, the ord. div. dropped to
10 p.e. in 1929 and to 5 p.e. in the follow-
ing year. However, with competition well
in hand and with the savings which followed
an overhaul of the organisation, the board
was actually able to exhibit a bit more
profit for the 12 months covered by the
last accounts. Allowing for the two lots of
pref. divs. (together £17,000). there was
enough to show 5.2 p.e. on ord. capital as
against 4.6, 8.1, 15 and 19.4 p.e. back to
1927, and the div. was kept at 5 p.e. Reserves
were £74.127 short of goodwill, etc. (£85,563).
which is a very mercurial element in a
newspaper co.’s accounts.
The effect of the year’s trading and of the
recent additions to fixed assets upon the
finances is seen in this next comparison of
balance-sheet figures;—
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Pref. capital. . £75,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 170,007 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mortgage .'. —— 42,746 41,738
Other liabilities 14,320 100,844 41,191 20,950
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 171,853 168,845 168,907
Plant, etc. . . 85,367 180,059 176,397 168,596
Investments . . 7,500 7,500
Stocks . . 25,507 47,405 22,398 21,139
Debtors . . 35,527 53,930 54,485 46,831
Cash, etc. . . 22,723 3,582 4,408 6,065
Thus last year’s reduction of £7654 in
debtors’ balances and of £1259 in stocks,
together with a net addition of £5831 to
the tax reserve (£16,725), enabled £16,416
to be chipped off the overdraft (£11,094),
£3795 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£9855) and £lOOB off the mort-
gage. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£18,847, including in-
vestments and stocks) was £13,993.
On the market the firsts fetch 17s. and
the seconds 14s, They carry a fixed cumu-
lative 9 p.e. and 8 p.e. respectively, and,
allowing for the statutory 224 p.e. cut, the
return at the prices stated is 9 g.c. and 8.9
p.e. The net tangible cover is £3 ss. 2d.,
firsts; £2 ss. 2d., seconds. The ords. are
not listed.
Strachan and Co., Ltd. (Geelong)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (5 p.e.) Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 12,255 1250 10 p.e. = 7,500 3505 14,050
1928.. 14,947 1563 124 „ „ 9,375 3009 17,059
1929.. 22,052 1250 15 „ „ 11,250 9552 27,611
1930.. 9,045 1250 10 „ „ 7,500 295 27,906
1931.. 2,478 1250 5 „ „ 3,750 25,384
It used to be Strachan, Murray and
Shannon, two old-established Geelong wool-
broking concerns which got into double
harness in 1897. To make the title less
cumbersome, Murray and Shannon were
dropped out of it during the last term.
The co. handles a little less than a fourth
of the wool passed through the Geelong sale-
rooms, and for the seven years to the close
of accounts in 1930 it paid divs. averaging
12.1 p.e., wiped goodwill (£24,000) out of
the accounts and accumulated £27,906 of
reserves besides —a windfall from Bawra in
1929 helped the figures greatly. During the
last term an extra 577 bales (44,030 alto-
gether) were put under the hammer, due to
the previous year’s carry-over, but they fetched
on the average only £lO 17s. 3d. compared
with £l2 19s. lid. in the previous season;
livestock, skin and hide values were down,
too. The drop in gross profits (£50,381) was
£8509; exes (£47,903) were only £1942
lighter, so, allowing for the pref. div. there
was enough to show but 1.6 p.e. on the
£75,000 of ord. capital as against 10.4, 27.7.
18.3 and 14.7 p.e. back to 1927. Neverthe-
less, a 5 p.e. div. was paid, and reserves
were tapped for £2522 to do it.
The co. borrowed from Peter to pay Paul,
as the next table shows: —
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Overdraft . . 36,197 17,751 54,995 27,091
Sundry creditors 24,076 39,195 23,336 51,083
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 82,101 87,167 96,908 96,497
Shares in other
cos . . 2,673 2,689 1,314 814
Stocks . . ■ 2,232 4,498 3,505 2,289
Debtors . . 90,712 97,438 107,889 105,46/
Cash, etc. . . 354 266 371 366
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£29,948, including stocks but not shares)
was £3457 lighter than when the books
closed in 1930. The position is governed
mainly by the ability of debtors _ to stand
up to their commitments. In this respect
the strengthening of prices, due to the drop
in sterling, good seasonal prospects and a
little relief from the burden of interest pay-
ments have greatly improved the outlook.
(Continued on page 16.)


lOfol
it's a
capstan'
m
:
ass mmmmmmm
m
?«*>
m
There is
an
aristocracy
of quality
not
necessarily
expensive ...
in
cigarettes
Capstans
possess it.
10 6
20»1
Also in Boxes of 50 and 100: in Tins
of 50 and Oval Heavyweights.
CAPSTAN
Medium and Full Strength
2525


BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.M.G.: Quite sound; but the superiority
of bonuses is not so certain. Thus you’d probably
get much less here than in some other places if
you wanted to buy out after a few years.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and' Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
g * * *
Low initial cost with subsequent savings in freight,
transport, installing and upkeep costs, combined with
a standard of service proved to be absolutely efficient,
emphasises the fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is the
logical conduit for water supply. Non-corrosive,
light—yet strong and extremely durable, Pioneer
W ood Pipe possesses outstanding advantages over all
oilier types of piping. Write for full particulars to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. —Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES— AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Ca7m-0
Compare these two methods of
saving £5O a year
A.M.P. Superiority over Savings Bank
EALLY, comparison is ridiculous, and yet
thousands of people deny themselves the
benefits that the A.M.P. could give them,
simply because they don’t understand.
Take a man aged thirty, in good health, who
wishes to save a pound a week, say, ±5O a
year. By placing his first £5O in the A.M.P.
he creates an immediate estate of £2076; that
is to say, if he were to die the next week his
heirs would receive that sum. By placing £5O
in a Savings Bank he creates an immediate
estate of only £so—that is all his heirs would
get if he were to die the next week.
The following table shows how the different
methods compare over a period of years. The
life policy figures below are not guesswork.
They show the amounts to which actual A.M.P.
policies taken out five, ten, fifteen and twenty
years ago, have accumulated by now. They
show the superiority of the A.M.P. policy in
no unmistakable way:—
đ
'll .
1
There is a suggestion in this table for the man
whose assets have depreciated during the last
year or so. He can build up his estate to its
former value by the mere taking out of an
A.M.P. policy for the amount of the deprecia-
tion. Thus he eliminates anxiety and restores
his good opinion of his financial judgment—no
small thing to do in these difficult days.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Offices in the principal cities of the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Field Representatives in all districts.
A. C. Hollingworth, A.1.A., General Manager.
Established 1849.
Assets, £83,200,000.
Still, even now wool is averaging only Bd.
a pound as against Sid. for last season.
The 5 p.c. prefs. are covered by ne,t tan-
gibles with a book value of a shade over £5;
ditto ords. 20s. 9d. Roth classes of paper
are tightly held.
Mt. Coolon Gold Mines, N.L.
This is the first offshoot of Gold Mines
of Australia, Ltd., the prospecting concern
backed by a powerful group of half a dozen
London and three Australian mining cos.
It is to take over and work the Mt. Coolon
and Native Bear mines (N.Q.), on which
the parent* has spent about £79,000 m inves-
tigation and development during the last 14
months. Nominal is £400,000 in 10s. shares,
of which 440,000 are offered. The parent
takes £65,000 in paid and £20,000 cash,.and
.Tames Barclay £55,000 cash and £15,000 in
paids in respect of the Native Bear. Equip-
ment, some of which has already been picked
up cheap at the Barrier, is expected to cost
£145 000, and will take about 12 months to
insta'l. The lode, winch outcrops tor some
2000 ft., lias been driven on for 900 ft. at
the 300 ft. level, where the stone averages
55s a ton and the mean width of the ore
channel is roughly Tift. Here the structure
is strong and persistent, suggesting that it
lives to greater depth. There is 100,000
tons of ore averaging 90s. thus far disclosed,
and a lot more work has to be done before
the value of the eastern (Coolon) lease can
be determined. No difficulty is anticipated
in connection with water; and the fine grind-
ing mill and cyanidation plant are expected
to deal with the ore already proved in 2b
months for a working profit of t001,26U.
That is reckoning on gold fetching only 84s.
an ounce, and disregarding the exchange and
the bounty, which would lift recoverable
values to £061,000 on the basis of present-
day figures. Actual results will depend
largely upon whether the plant does all that
is expected of it. , .
Estimates have been based on reports by
Charles Gibson, C. 11. J. Clayton and J. C.
Coldham. Also Carl Lindberg and George
King inspected the properties before they
were taken over. On the board are Colin
Fraser, M. L. Baillieu, G. C. King, A. G.
Campbell, E. H. Shackcll, A. A Stewart.
Incidentally, the issue has been underwritten
by Gold Mines of Australia, which also has
a three-years’ option over 100,000 shares at
15s. each.
Bismark Range and St. Aignan’s, two con-
cerns now fossicking at Lucknow, have been
suspended from the official list of Sjdney
Stock Exchange until they comply with sec-
tion 203 of the Companies Act. 11ns pro-
vides that a co. shall at least once m every
year present its sheet to members at a
general meeting. Bismark was floated in
the early days of the New Guinea boom to
work an Eldorado in that country, but the
show turned out a dud. St. Aignan s took
up leases on the island of that name u
Fapua, but abandoned them; its directors,
and shareholders recently discussed future
prospects and past performances with much
acrimony. Both cos. plead that they are
awaiting the finding of the Parliamentary
committee appointed by the State Govern-
ment to inquire into the position at Luck-
now before issuing balance-sheets.
* * * *•
B. H. Prop, has taken an 18 months’
working option over the Enterprise on the
Golden Mile. It adjoins Great Boulder and
the North and South Kalgurli properties,
and during the last seven years nOO tons
of stone from the mine has been treated for
a return of £23,000, an average of a shade
under £3 per ton. The intention is to test
the ground to the South Kalgurli boundary
by means of easterly bores from lbWtt.
level of the Great Boulder.
sis #
Princess Royal, Westonia, which lias made
economies and put more ginger iubo the
work, will resume milling at the end of
October, when I2dwt. ore will be dealt with.
The lode is on the narrow side, but the
grade should enable the new management
to make a braver show than formerly.
* ❖ * *
Radio, Southern Cross, recently put 22
tons through the mill, and cya-nided a greater
quantity of sand, for a return of £l5OO, in-
cluding' the premium. With exes, below; the
£5OO mark, the two owners only complain ot
the pleasant monotony of doing the same
sort of thing every month.
:J: :-s ♦ Si ’
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), has
commenced boring on the leases south of tne
old Lancefield mine. Should a big ore body
of similar value (325. per ton) to the Lance-
field be proved, the Gwalia crowd will reckon
the show 7 good enough to go on with.
!•: * =l* *
The new lode at Wannaway, near Cool-
gardie, is sft. wide to a depth of 30ft., ana
200 tons of wdiat the prospectors hope w 7 iU
be ounce stone is broken for treatment.
* * >i: *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(l)What is the position of preference and
ordinary shareholders in the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Banlc? (2) Duties of liquidator in
respect of calls, etc.? —6351.
(1) Issued capital at Feb. 28, 1931, was
£2,463,082 in 492,612 £5 pref. and 22 £1 ord.
shares. Paid capital was £439,402. The
difference represented the amount uncalled
(£1,970,448) plus . unpaid (£53,232) on
these so-called preference shares; the ords.
are fully paid. The prefs., which were
issued at a premium of £1 (used mostly to
cover cost of share-selling and. establish-
ment), are called to £l, thus leaving holders
w r ith an uncalled liability of £4 per share.
This uncalled capital constitutes part of the
assets of the bank (it went into voluntary
liquidation on Sept. 29), and can be called
up to pay off the creditors. At Feb. -8
assets were valued in the books at
£2,102,443; outside liabilities figured at
£1,571.912; surplus. £530,531. The Aus-
tralian quarterly averages to .Tune 30 show
assets totalling £1.944,808 —liquids, £260,364;
advances, £1,583,426; premises, £lOl,OlB.
Liabilities to the public were £1,439,123-
deposits. £1,365,560; bills, etc., £33,560;
mortgage, £40,000. Thus the surplus was
£505.685. That does not include the figures
of the London office. Many of the advances,
which have been made in the wheat areas,
are frozen stiff, and what they will ulti-
mately realise it is impossible to say at the
moment. (2) Broadly, the liquidators
duty is to realise the assets and distribute
the proceeds to those entitled thereto, feo
far as contributories are concerned he pre-
pares an A and B list. The A list consists
of shareholders at the date winding-up com-
menced ; those not on the register at that
date, but who were shareholders during the
preceding 12 months, are put on the B list.
If contributions from the A list are lnsum-
cient to cover creditor claims, etc., those on
the B list are liable to contribute. C alls
can be made at any time after settlement
of the A list. The amount of the call and
the time at which it is made are matters
in the discretion of the liquidator. How-
ever, a depositor, who is also a pref share-
holder, would be entitled to a set-off against
calls to the amount of this deposit plus
accrued interest. After all creditors have
been paid off, any remaining assets belong
to contributories, of course. It may, there-
fore. be advisable for contributories to form
a committee to watch their interests. liqui-
dation in this case may prove to oe a slow
business.
What is the investment value of bonds in
the Forestry Paper and Pulp Go.? —6531.
Impossible to say; they are a long-term
speculation. Co. sells acre lots at £3O, plants
600 Finns insignus trees on each, and cares
for the crop till it matures. Maturity is
20 years for timber, or any time after eight
years for pulp. Income from area planted
each year is to be pooled, and after deduct-
ing cost, of harvesting, marketing, etc., net
proceeds, if any, are divided 20 p.c. to the
co. and 80 p.c. to bondholders. What condi-
tions will be eight or 20 years hence the
“Wild Cat” does not know, and it hasn’t
got much faith in anyone who says he does.
The co. makes its profit out of the sale of
the land and management of the areas.
Bondholders shoulder all the risks worth
mentioning. Most timber cos. in Australia
have had to write off capital lost during
the last half-dozen years’ trading.
A Melbourne firm pays divs. with cheques
marked sterling. Does the bank pay in
Australian money, plus exchange London on
Australia? If not, why? —6B4o.
Dividends are payable in the currency of
the country in which the co. has its regis-
tered headquarters. A Melbourne firm pay-
ing divs. by cheque merely transfers money
from one account to another in Australia.
The bank, therefore, will pay the amount
of the cheque and no more. The use of the
word sterling is a superfluous habit with no
real significance. Only when dividend war-
rants are issued from London and are pay-
able there will exchange London on Aus-
tralia be added by the bank here. If a
co. with London headquarters pays divs. by
cheques drawn by its Australian office, the
amount of exchange should be added to the
cheque.
What is the meaning of the term “Bank
of England rate increased ”? Is it the interest
charged on overdrafts, or the amount paid
on fixed deposits ?• —6296.
It is neither. It is the minimum rate at
which the' bank will discount “fine paper”
for the bill market. It is part of the
mechanism by which the monetary system is
controlled. There is normally no direct bor-
rowing or lending between the Bank of
England and the joint-stock banks. The
connection is established through the dis-
count market, which employs funds lent to
it at call or short notice. If a joint-stock
bank or other lender finds its cash position
running low, it withdraws call money from
the discount market. The market then
brings bills to the Bank for discount, or
borrows on other security. When the gold
standard was in operation one of the prime
objects of an increase in the bank rate was
to prevent a drain of gold. One way in
which it operates on the internal position
is by discouraging borrowing from the trad-
ing banks, thus tending to reduce their
deposits.
(1) We have an old stamper (rod and
foot) with which we want to make a spring-
pole “dolly” or crusher.. It needs shoeing.
Cost of shoe and ivhcrc procurable? (2)
Where can we get stamper-die , i.e., the round
plate on which stamper crushes stone?
Price? (3) What type of gauze is used for
outlet from stamper-box? Price? (4)
What material is necessary for plates
(tables), and how many? Method of erec-
tion? (5) What, materials and method are
necessary to cyanide tailings? (6) Is there
a small portable crushing plant on market?
Price with and without engine? —6oB6.
(1) and (2) Cost of shoes and dies varies
according to number ordered, shape and
weight, but approx, price would be 425.
per cwt. They can be supplied by Guthridge,
Ltd., 10 Parramatta-road, Camperdown,
Sydney, who would send you diagram sheets
to fill in. (3) Punched black-iron screens
are generally any number of
holes per square inch as desired. Can be
supplied by same firm. (4) For amalgamat-
ing plates it is advisable to use copper plate,
No. 16 gauge, plated on one side, mounted
on an inclined wooden table or trough, and
the number of plates used varies according
to requirements; two plates about 3ft. by
2ft. with mercury wells would be suffi-
cient. (5) This process includes crushing
the ore, solution in potassium cyanide and
precipitation of gold on zinc shavings.
Recommend you to' study a textbook, such
as “The Cyanide Process of Gold Extrac-
tion,” by .Tames Park. Apparatus neces-
sary would be vats for solution of gold
cyanide and vats to contain the strong and
weak solutions, also precipitation boxes
complete with zinc shavings. (6) Guth-
ridge, Ltd., can supply a portable crusher,
capacity 1 to 1\ tons per day, complete with-
out power for about £6O. Power required
would be about 2 h.p., and the cost of an
engine about £3S.
(1) In N. S. Wales can a mining co. peg
out a tank which is improvement purchase
or freehold and pump water from same for
mining purposes without the consent of the
owner and without paying any compensa-
tion? (2) Can a mining co. peg out a tank
on a N.S.W. Western Lands lease as a water
lease for which the lessee has tenant rights,
and pump water from same without paying
compensation to the lessee? —6193. .
(1) Generally speaking, a mining co. m ■
either acquire a title under the Mining
or obtain the consent of the owner
can take possession of a tank on either ir -
hold or Crown land and make use ol
water therein for mining purposes. 1
Same as to a Western Lands lease. ” r
the N.S.W. Mines Department disclosing
full particulars.
(1) What price per ounce does the Mel-
bourne Mint give for melted gold or a Wm-i-o ■
gold? Docs the price include the gold bonus
and exchange? (2) Is there any
in selling gold at the Commonwealth lSanK.
(3) When does the Victorian Government t
propose to abolish income tax on gold .
(1) £5 Os. Bd. per ounce for 22 carat.
291 p.c. included for exchange. Gold bonu.
payable at end of year. (2) No. (3) T**® l *-
is a Federal tax only on profits of minim,,
selling and buying gold. Early in the month
Premier Ilogan said the Government in-
tended to exempt Vic. gold-mining cos. from
the Is. 9d. in the £ tax on dividends distri-
buted.
Value of mineral output of South African
Union and Northern and Southern Rhodesia
for 1910, 1920 and 1930, and 0 f mineral out-
put of Australia for same years?-— 6l on.
3910: Australia, £23,029,862; Union of
South Africa, £52,711,761; Southern
Rhodesia, £2,795,265. 1920: Australia,
£21612,746; S. Africa, £68,332,12 1 ; S.
Rhodesia, £4,450,988. 1928 (1930 figures
not available) : Australia, £19,596,634; S.
Africa, £66,406,372 ; S. Rhodesia, £4,448,311;
N. Rhodesia, £903,680. N. Rhodesia figures
not available for 3910 and 1920,


Abridged Prospectus of
Mount Coolon Gold Mines No Liability
(Registered under Part II of the Companies Act, 1928)
CAPITAL: £400,000 in 800,000 shares of 10/- each.
440,000 shares are offered for subscription at 1/- per share on applica-
tion, 1/- per share on allotment, and the balance of 8/- per
share is subject to calls not exceeding 1/- per share at intervals
of not less than two months between each call.
DIRECTORS:
Marshal Lawrence Baillieu, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor.
Alexander George Campbell, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Mining Engineer.
Colin Fraser, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Mining Engineer.
George Charles Klug, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; Mining Engineer.
Edward Herbert Shackell, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Chartered Accountant
(Australia).
Alexander Anderson Stewart, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Engineer.
GENERAL MANAGERS AND CONSULTANTS:
Gold Mines of Australia, Limited, Collins House, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
E. L. and C. Baillieu, Collins House, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Hugh Gerner Brain, Collins House, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OP THE COMPANY: The company has* been formed for the purpose (inter alia) of acquiring
from Cold Mines of Australia, Ltd., and from Mr. James Barclay, as at 28th August, 1931, certain
Cold Mining Leases (totalling 76 acres), Machinery Areas, Water Rights, Tailings Area and Miners’
Homestead Perpetual Leases, ete., situated at Mt. Coolon, North Queensland, some 130 miles south-west
of Bowen. The latter port is connected by 62 miles of Government railway (to Collinsville) and a
road from the latter suitable for motor traffic.
\ ENDOR AND PROMOTER COMPANY: Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., was incorporated in Victoria
in April, 1930, to search for, test and raise capital to acquire and operate promising properties.
The principal shareholders of Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., are:—
New Consolidated Goldfields, Limited
Camp Bird, Limited
The Zinc Corporation, Limited |
Golden Horse Shoe (New), Limited • |
The Associated Gold Mines of Western Australia (New), Limited |
Austral Development, Limited j
of London.
North Broken Hill, Limited ]
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd. J-
Metals Investigation Pty., Ltd.
of Melbourne.
ACQUISITION OF THE PROPERTIES BY THE VENDORS: The properties were worked more or less
continuously from the surface down to from 70 to 100 feet, prior to their being optioned and/or acquired
by Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd. From these workings some 40,000 tons of ore were mined a,nd
treated for a return of £256,000. In addition, tailings were dumped and are available for treatment
containing recoverable gold worth £52,000.
Following upon the report of Mr. Charles G. Gibson, Mining Geologist, made after an inspection
early in 1930, options over both the Mount Coolon Mine and the Native Bear Mine were taken in
April, 1930.
Gold Mines of Australia, Limited, exercised the option over the Mount Coolon Mine in July, 1930,
and the option over the Native Boar Mine in August, 1931.
DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTIES B\ THE VENDOR COMPANY: Both properties have been actively
developed by Gold Mines of Australia, Limited, over the last 14 months.
Prior to the exercise of the option over the Native Bear Mine, careful inspections of both properties
were made by Mr. Carl O. Lindberg and Mr. George C. Klug, on behalf of New Consolidated Goldfields,
Limited, and the Zinc Corporation, Limited, respectively, two of the principal shareholders in Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd.
REPORTS: Copies of the report of Mr. Charles G. Gibson, above mentioned and of an earlier report by
Mr. C. H. J. Clayton, then Underground Manager of the Zinc Corporation, Ltd., can be seen at the
Registered Office, where, also, copies can be obtained of Reports, dated 31st August, 1931 and 3rd
September, 1931, respectively, by Mr. Gibson and Mr. J. C. Coldham, 8.E., who acted as Manager of
the properties for Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., during the option periods.
Leading features of the latter Reports are:—
(1) The lode is traceable on the surface for a distance of nearly 2000 ft, payable ore
was found along the outcrop of the lode over an almost continuous length of 1400 ft.
(2) The width of the ore channel—-or the extent to which important mineralisation has
taken place—averages roughly 71 feet, with local variations from 3 feet to over 20 feet.
(3) There is satisfactory evidence of the existence of profitable ore beyond the known
occurrences.
(4) The present workings comprise a main shaft sunk vertically to the 300 feet level;
five subsidiary shafts sunk on the lode; and over 2000 feet of driving (including
890 feet on the 300 feet level), all available to prepare the ore for stoping.
(5) On the Native Bear lease the developmental work carried out during the 12 months’
option period has proved in every w-ay satisfactory. The drive at the bottom level
(300 feet from the surface) extends from one end erf this lease to the other, and shows
the lode to be structurally as strong and persistent as ever, with every indication of
living to much greater depths.
(6) On the Mount Coolon or Eastern lease only a comparatively small amount of work has
been done, and much further development is necessary before the value of the lease
even at and above the 300 feet level can be determined.
(7) The ore reserves so far disclosed above the lowest level opened at 300 feet from the
surface are estimated bv Mr-. J. C. Coldham at—
-106,000 TONS, AVERAGING 90/- PER TON, OR £477,000.
(8) Mr. Coldham estimates that the mine-operating profit from the treatment of ore now
proved above the 300 feet level, and ore and tailings at grass, will be—
£351,200 AS AGAINST THE CAPITAL INVESTMENT OF £300,000.
This is estimated to be won in 26 months after starting up the milling and treatment
plant. Installation of the plant should occupy 12 months.
(9) Mr. Coldham reports that the ore body is particularly well adapted for low mining
costs. The ore is amenable to simple treatment—fine grinding and cyanidation. The
position in regard to water supply and to mine and mill supplies and services is
quite favorable.
(10) As stated in his report, Mr. Gibson anticipates that the lode will live to much greater
depth. At the present bottom level an aggregate length of 750 feet of profitable ore
has so far been exposed. The sampled width of this ore is 7 feet 10 inches, and the
assay value 55/- a ton.
EXCHANGE AND GOLD BOUNTY: All the values and profits stated above are taken on gold at 85/-
per oz. fine, and irrespective of exchange and the gold bounty. At the present exchange premium (equal
to 29:[ per cent.) and expectation of gold bounty, the additional revenue from the, ore exposed and ore
and tailings at graSs would be —-Exchange premium, £145,665; Gold Bounty, £17,335; Total, £163,000,
making a recoverable value at existing exchange rates of £661,000 from ore above the 300 feet level.
The price of 84/- per ounce fine was that ruling in London for gold prior to 20th September, 1931.
Since then this figure has substantially increased.
EQUIPMENT AND PREPARATION OF THE PROPERTIES: The cost of mine equipment and preparation
for production, with mill, dam, housing accommodation and all subsidiary plant, etc., is estimated at
£145,000. Much plant of a suitable character is being obtained from Broken Hill on very favorable
terms, having become available through the establishment of the new Diesel electric Central Power
Station.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION: The Vendor Company has spent, or is committed to expend, on the
acquisition, development and administration of the properties, a total of £79,000, exclusive of interest.
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., receives from the new company 130,000 fully-paid shares of 10/-
each and £20,000 in cash, together with the right to call at any time within three years for the
allotment of up to 100,000 shares of 10/- each at the price of 15/- each.
The new company is also paying to Mr. James Barclay the sum of £70,000 (as to £55,000 in
cash and as to £15,000 in fully-paid shares) in respect of the purchase of the Native Bear Mine.
Disregarding future mine development and the factors of exchange and gold bounty, and taking
gold at 84/- per ounce fine, the estimated profit from the ore proved shows a surplus over the capital
required both for the purchase consideration and to equip the properties for production.
TAXATION: As a goldmining concern, the company’s income is by Statute free of Federal Income
Tax, and (until 30th June, 1934, at least) of Queensland Income Tax. Dividends paid to shareholders
resident in Australia (except in South Australia) are exempt from Federal and State Income Taxes.
In addition, the Federal Income Tax Act allows shareholders to deduct calls, and the Queensland Income
Tax allows, further, application and allotment moneys.
UNDERWRITING: The subscription of 440,000 shares now offered is underwritten by Gold Mines of
Australia, Limited.
APPLICATIONS: Registered shareholders in the constituent companies of Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.,
may claim priority of allotment, subject to the Directors’ discretion.
The subscription list will open on Monday, 19th October, 1931, and close at 5.30 p.m. on
Monday, 26th October, 1931. Applications will be considered if postmarked not later than
the latter date. Forms, prospectuses, etc., are obtainable from —
The Office of the Company, c/o Secretariat Pty., Ud., Collins House, Melbourne;
The Brokers (Messrs. F. L. and C. Baillieu, Collins House, Melbourne);
The Secretaries of the recognised Stock Exchanges in the various States.
A brokerage of 3d. per share will be paid to members of any recognised Stock Exchange in
Australasia, on all applications for shares coming through them.
MANAGEMENT: Gold Mines of Australia, Limited, have agreed to act as General Managers and
Consultants to the Company for a period of ten years, and to provide necessary technical and
administrative officers at cost, plus a remuneration of 5 per cent, of the distributed profits of the company
The foregoing is merely a digest of the Prospectus, and intending investors arc urged to obtain a copy
of same, ‘ 1
M
Use
SWAN
INK
FOR EASY WRITING
Everyone who tries a “ Swan ”
takes to it immediately—it is so
reliable, so unfailing in its flow.
Selecting a nib to suit your hand-
writing presents no difficulties.
We have been making nibs for
almost a century and the “ Swan ”
is famous for its unvarying
smoothness and long wearing
qualities. Try one.
THE GUARANTEED
Swan'
PEN®
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLACK or MOTTLED “ SWANS '* ... from 20/-
COLOURED “ SWANS ” from 22 (i
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils to match from X (;
“ Blackbird ” Pens from 10/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers,
Illustrated list post free.
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd,, Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot :
Phipson & Company, Ltd., 181, Clarence Street, Sydney,
Select your Ink with care, for
upon it depends the permanence
of the written record. “ Swan ”
Blue-black Ink is prepared from a
scientific formula which renders
it absolutely impervious to the
fading effect of air and light.
Obtainable also in red, blue, green
or violet from 6d. per bottle.
READ THIS
“Carrying a large bunch of West Australian
wild-flowers, the Postmaster-General (Mr. Green)
stepped from the train at Spencer Street on
Saturday morning. He had spent a month in
his electorate of Ivalgoorlie. Mr. Green’s
electorate is the largest in Australia; it covers
an area of 909,000 square miles. The wilcl-
flowers, Mr. Green said, indicated the
wonderful season which was being ex-
perienced in the west. Copious rains had
made the desert bloom like a rose, the
pasture lands were knee-deep in grass,
and all kinds of shrubs, some of which
had not been seen for many years, were
coming into blossom. Mr. Green remarked
that he had travelled 4000 miles since leaving
Melbourne a month ago. In the wheat areas,
owing to 20 inches of rain having fallen
this season, the prospect for good crops was
promising, but the farmers were concerned about
the prices they would obtain. Some were
talking of leaving the crops on the ground. In
the goldmining industry there was a revival
and hundreds of men were prospecting.”
—Melbourne “Argus,” 21/9/’Bl.
SPLENDID SEASON ASSURED.
National Advertisers! Here is your
market. Get the maximum results at
minimum cost by advertising consistently
in the Perth
nntau Uuncs
THE BIG, BRIGHT AND BREEZY
WEEKLY WITH THE CIRCULATION
OP A DAILY IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


JMelbourne's Most Modern Hotel
The hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE (opp. Railway station)
200 Rooms 200 Baths
TARIFF PER PAY;
Room and Meals . from 22/6
Room and Breakfast fronl ,2 / 6
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
; " , . ' ?4
'
■
' - '
S % - f
MM * i
3
a
a !$■
mm -
It
>PI
s£ k
ife. 5* . . •
Li; -r
~a m i
,
,
■
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
womans paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion (com. Saturday) .... “As Husbands Go’’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Royal “Florodora”
State Movies and Talkies
+
Health Week with McSporran
Whenever Sydney feels bored, which is
often, somebody start the game of “Lets
think of a subject and talk about it for a
week.” In this way there have been Weeks
of Animals, Fathers, Mothers, Girls, Boys
and Music. Aunts and Vegetables are on
the schedule, but their time is not yet. Last
week they had Health. There _ being pro-
bably no more uninteresting subject on this
green earth to those who don’t lack it, this
Showman would have remained in ignor-
ance of the proceedings had it not been for
McSporran. MeSporran’s enthusiasm was
kindled by a chance remark bawled into
his ear by a funnel on top of a hearse in
Martin-place. “Health,” boomed a sepulchral
Voice from the interior of the mortuary
van, “health, the most _ magnificent boon
conferred upon mankind, is free to all!”
McSporran waited to hear more. Il’is atten-
tion was diverted to two men on a platform
who seemed to be having a tug-of-war with
a long piece of rope. He became aware that
they were, in some occult way, connected
with the Voice in the hearse. “You see this
piece of rope?” the Voice demanded. “This
piece of rope, 25 feet in length, represents
your alimentary canal. Through this vast
length of tubing food passes from your
mouth to your stomach.” MeSporran’s eye
brightened. “This,” he said to himself,
“explains where McSparrow (his partner)
stows beer. Hitherto I have been inclined
to the erroneous theory that his legs were
hollow.’’ The Voice boomed on. “And
what do you do with this long tube like
a garden hose? You trample on it all day
long, crouched over desks and typewriters;
you take it in the evening to picture-shows
and trample on it some more!” One of the
men on the platform, a chap in a red blazer,
gathered up the rope into a tangled mass and
held it against his chest. McSporran waited
“A chance remark bawled into his ear by a
tunnel.”
breathlessly to see him trample upon it in
this posture, but he didn’t. Enough, how-
ever, had been disclosed to make McSporran
a convert to Health. He insisted on taking
the Showman to a lunch at the Uni., where
Dr. Purdy spoke robust manly words on
the subject of undies. Dr. Purdy was all
for wool, and holes in hats. Men should
dress in white duck, but (alas!) that was
out of the question on account of the cost of
laundry. Later McSporran made inquiries
and discovered that with care a duck suit
could be worn for a fortnight, a,nd washed
for 2s. “It’s ma opeenion,” he stated, “that
Dr. Purrdy comes frae Aberdeen.”
These experiences led up to a visit to the
Great Health Exhibition at the Town Hall.
It cost sixpence to get in, and McSporran
expected a lot more than he got for the
money. He and the Showman arrived an
hour after the opening, and it was evident
that in another week or two all would be in
apple-pie order. The place was crammed
with nurses, taxi-drivers and small boys.
Some of the nurses turned out to be stall-
attendants, and the taxi-drivers proved to
be chemists, dentists, oculists, bakers and
vacuum-cleaner and ice-chest demonstrators.
Their white attire, worn despite the warn-
ing of the prudent Purdy, occasioned the
misunderstanding. Firmly steering McSnor-
ran away from the pre-natal clinic, where
he was studying with absorbed interest a
placard of advice to expectant mothers, the
Showman directed his attention to an
exhibit staged by the Lord Mayor—a huge
Foot, entirely nude, and as black as a coal.
This, a placard stated, was what a human
foot should bo. It looked as if it had been
sculpted by Epstein. Surveying its enor-
mous proportions MeSporran asked sus-
piciously “What is the Lorrd Mayor by
trade? Is he a chiropodist?” The Showman
explained that Mr. Jackson sells shoes.
“That explains it,” murmured MeSporran,
obviously calculating how many square feet
“Gathered up the rope into a tangled mass.”
of leather it would take to hide that mon-
strous hoof from human ken.
The next point of interest, reached with
some difficulty owing to continuous conflict-
ing streams of nurses carrying buns and
cups of tea, was the Egg Board’s little
roost. Here a most magnificent poster
depicted “Civilisation Paying Tribute to
the Egg,” a masterly conception representing
an Egg 50 feet high standing miraculously
upright in a marble temple, up the steps
of which toiled persons in Roman togas.
Near by, on another stall, was depicted a fly
six feet high, with a bottle in one hand, a
waddy in the other, a knife in the other and
some other lethal weapon in the other. This
creature was surrounded by snakes, mos-
quitoes and other nasty beasts, and a placard
stated that the Fly killed 2000 people every
year. McSporran said he didn’t believe it.
If it were true the “S. M. H'erald” would
report these assassinations.
The gem of the show, exceeding in beauty
even the posters that showed the revolting
facial results of an addiction to leprosy, was
the First Plague Rat Caught in Sydney. The
rat, whose expression was intent but. slightly
vacuous, and whose entrails were laid open
for inspection, had been pickled for over
30 years, but he must have been a gay young
spark in his time. It was after meditating
on the rat that McSporran fell into an argu-
ment with the man at the preserved meat
stall. “There’s nae health in meat, mon,”
McSporran was saying firmly, as the Show-
man discreetly slipped away to the open
air. “Take a brewer’s horrse. Does he sit
down to a breakfast of steak and
oysters ?”.... The Showman looked back at
the door. The hall was untidier than the
street outside. Not a square foot of the
floor was bare of a litter of rubbish. Nurses
still rushed hither and thither with buns
and cups of tea, both probably barred by
the rules of strict hygiene. The great organ
looked as if a day with a vacuum-cleaner
would do it a world of good. Health Week
was in full swing.
Scott Alexander’s new Sydney Repertory
Society set strong women shuddering and
timid males tightly clenching their seats at
St. James’s Hall on Saturday, when a pro-
gramme of Grand Guignol plays was staged.
“It looked as if it had been sculptured by
Epstein.”
The audience at the outset got the full flavor
of what was in store for them when the
curtain rang up on “Vultures,” depicting a
night of terror in a private mental asylum
conducted by an unscrupulous doctor If
patients were not insane upon arrival the
doctor guaranteed that they would be within
24 hours. Barbara Smith, Gilbert Chester
and Marie Terry were the chief blood-curdlers.
The second item, Planche s Moulding Hall,
which embroiders with some original twists
the theme of a haunted house, was effectively
performed. ‘‘The Unforeseen, by Lecocq,
deals with the struggle of a once-famous sur-
geon against the drug habit. He is on the
way to sure recovery when his infant daugh-
ter is taken seriously ill, necessitating an
immediate operation, which he cannot muster
up nerve to perform without the drug so
he takes the drug. Kenneth Fowles made
the part convincing. “Mary Meredith,
Actress,” was a one-part play in which Bar-
bara Smith again made a hit. The evening
wound up with “The Grip,” introducing au
artist, his wife, her lover and the artist s para-
lysed father. The old man, following the
murder of his son by his daughter-in-law,
regains the use of his hands and chokes her.
Effectively made up, Hon Roberts played
the part of the strangler with vim.
* * *
“lolanthe,” revived at Sydney Her
Majesty’s on Saturday, is the most essen-
tially Gilbertian of all the Savoy operas, and
Sullivan in scoring it expressed its atmo-
sphere as precisely as he later captured the
old English tang of “The Yeomen,” _ the
Spanish-Italian flavor of “The Gondoliers”
and the exotic quality of “The Mikado.” The
piece makes but little demand on the his-
trionic powers of the cast, and is usually
over-acted. Ivan Menzies, Miss Gardiner
and the other members of the present J. 0.
W. co. wisely concentrate on putting words
and music clearly before the public. The
“Does he sit down to a breakfast of steak
and oysters ?”
orchestration, almost as clever as that of
“The Yeomen,” is capably attended to by
Mr. McCunn’s band. John Ralston collects
all the giggles rightfully belonging to the
part of Private Willis. Misses Bremner and
Hotham look as pretty and sing as sweetly
as ever.
* # *
Pros., in preparing a Shaw play, studi-
ously refrain from reading the preface, or,
if they have inadvertently done so, banish
it firmly from their minds. This is a neces-
sary act of self-preservation, because to play
Shaw as Shaw saw the play all the actors
would have to be Shaw, which can’t be
done. The Sydney Little Theatre’s version
of “You Never Can Tell” is a noble attempt
.to achieve the impossible, and producer Caro-
lyn Forsythe, who' also plays Mrs. Clandon,
has managed to evolve something that cor-
responds approximately with the dialogue
and the voluminous directions. There is
some very fair character acting by T. Gurr,
11. Hambridge and Wilfred Blacket, and
the interest of the audience is held.
* *
During Sydney’s Health Week the Play-
box Theatre presented Dr. Frank Layton’s
“Phillip’s Wife,” a propaganda play in three
acts, in which the writer advocates with
much vigor the more open discussion of
v.d. A strong cast put forward the propa-
ganda, and sent the audience home in a
thoughtful frame of mind. The outstanding
players were Helen Blood, William Gates.
A. H. Robertson, Grant Cooper and Lois
Bingham.
* # *
The least original thing about the Sydney
Opera House show is its name, “Scandals
of 1931.” The jokes come next. Rene
Riano, Clem Dawes and Eric Edgley, with
Frith drifting on occasionally, are punctu-
ated by serios Muriel O’Malley and Cyril
James. A strong feature is the ballet, which
includes one young miss who this time last
year was solo-dancing for the Firm.
Choral music is getting a much-needed
impetus in Sydney by the advent of Dr.
Cyril Jenkins. Under his baton the Welsh
choirs of the city assembled at Pitt-street
Congregational Church on a recent Sunday and
indulged in a festival of Cymric hymns and
anthems. Some of Dr. Jenkins’s works were
included, together with the time-honored
strains that are sent forth at every Cymanfa
Ganu in the Land of the Leek. The com-
bined choir was well drilled, and it sang
with magnificent zeal.
* * *
A suburban am. dram. soc. that prepares
its productions with much more than ordi-
nary conscientiousness is the Neutral Bay
Players’ Club of Sydney. Its latest effort
was Edward Rose’s four-act play “The
Mender,” the theme of which is almost iden-
tical with that of Frank Packard’s “Miracle
Man.” Edwin Geacli, in the principal role,
and Rewa Cochrane, in a comedy part,
showed talent, and there were no duds. The
producer, Phil Walsh, knows his job.
In “The Constant Nymph,” at Melb.
King’s, the Gregan McMahon players met
their Waterloo, but not in the Napoleonic
sense. They were on the Wellingtonian
side in the battle, so to speak, and came
out with some casualties but winning. Those
who had read the book should have been
fully satisfied with Frank Dcsbrowe’s Jacob
Birnbaum. lie was the sensual, sentimental
and good-natured Hebrew entrepreneur to
the life. The Sanger girls were excellently
rendered by Thelma Scott, Betty Matear
and Elsa Andrews, gaiety alternating with
passion, sophistication and innocence with-
out any trace of self-consciousness. Miss Scott,
as Tessa, was well chosen both for appear-
ance and manner. It was not her fault that
in the last two acts she tended to become less
of a real human being and more the familiar
Cinderella of the Daddy Longlegs type of
sentimental comedy. Florence, her guardian,
inevitably tends towards the opposite type—
the wicked sister. Unlike Frank Harvey
in “Cape Forlorn,” the playwrights of
“The Constant Nymph” take sides too
obviously in an attempt to win the audi-
ence’s sympathy. Nancye Ford did some
brilliant work as Florence, but in the scene
at the concert she and Frederick Hughes,
as her composer-husband. Dodds, lapsed
into melodrama. But H'ughes was thor-
oughly at his ease with the Sanger circus
and finely sensitive in his passages with
Tessa. It was a wise thought of the play-
wrights not to produce Sanger. He dies
offstage in the Swiss chalet in the first act,
but his proud and unconventional artistic
soul goes marching on in the persons of his
children, legitimate and illegitimate, until
it runs up against the stone wall of Philis-
tine London. One feels that to let Tessa
die of consumption was not the best way
out of a difficult situation, but it made
an effective final curtain to an admirable
performance of an interesting drama.
* * *
A large crowd took very kindly to Balo-
kovic and his accompanist, Fleetwood, at
Melb. Auditorium on Saturday. Before the
art of as perfect a craftsman as Balokovic
it is almost an impertinence to say any-
thing at all. Praise is a form of contempt,
as Nietzsche pointed out. It presupposes
that the praiser could do better himself,
which is absurd, as Euclid would say. It
would be interesting to know what eminent
artists like Balokovic really think about
their critics. Probably something along the
lines of the Chinese proverb, “The insect can
fly but ten paces, but in the tail of a
noble steed he can go a thousand miles.
Present writer is not in the mood for long
“Nurses still rushed hither and thither with
cups of tea.”
journeys, so, after remarking that the Handel
sonata in G minor gave him acute pleasure,
fhat the one by Cesar Franck delighted him
beyond measure, that he was thrilled to
bits by the Brahms valse (twice repeated)
and that even the “Ave Maria” supplied as
an encore came as a new experience, he is
left with nothing to talk about but the
dress clothes worn by the two pttfformers,
which in their way were as delightful as
the playing.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Children of the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —As honorary medical
officer to a clinic in an industrial area, I
■second “Appio’s” call for action (B.
7/10/’3l) with regard to the issue of pre-
ventives to married people on the dole. But
“free medical instruction and preventives in
the list of dole necessities” will leave the
least desirable of these people cold. They
will neither tolerate nor be bothered with
preventives. “Appio’s” suggestion is best
suited to those really sad cases where two
people of decent mentality, caring greatly
for each other, are thrown out of employ-
ment through no fault of their own. The
saddest thing about these cases is that it is
the children of these people the State can
least afford to lose ; but the parents in their
pride try to carry on on insufficient food,
with the result that the child lacks vitality.
The State would be well advised to save
these mothers the extra strain and worry
a pregnancy entails until their circumstances
improve. However, the instruction and
appliances should be available to all mar-
ried people on the dole. Then if a baby
is born 11 months or more after a father
as been on the dole, he should lose his relief
ay. Incidentally, male sterilisation can be
irried out easily under local anaesthetic
ithout causing either inconvenience or im-
itence. To sterilise a woman, however,
cans putting her in hospital for three
weeks —not to mention the risks entailed in
an abdominal operation—and unfitting her
for domestic effort for a few weeks longer ;
it also does not prevent the man who is
usually responsible in these cases from con-
tinuing to sow his civic tares. —Yours,
Unappy.
What the Dole Is Doing
Dear B., —Let me quote just three of my
own experiences. No. 1 called one morning.
Offered him a job at the regular wages. He
was a big chap, looked well fed, and had
three mates waiting out in the road. He
jumped at the job, but said he would have
to go to the township, and would be back
to start work on Monday. Gave him pota-
toes and eggs—and that was the last seen
of him. No. 2 and his brother came along
seeking food. Asked them if they wanted
a job “ringing” on contract at 2s. 6d. an
acre. Took them over to look at the pad-
dock. They also jumped at the job. Gave
them tucker, axes, etc., to start with; when
I went over to see them next day they had
flown. A few days later, hearing that I
had a paddock to ring, three blacks rode 40
miles and waited all day to see me and ask
for the job. They did the paddock at the
same price and cleared £22 in nine days.
No. 3 said he wanted work. I took him on,
gave him breakfast, and told him to chop
wood until I returned. He had his break-
fast all right and then vanished. Experi-
ences like these are apt to harden one’s
heart against the cries of unemployment and
distress. I might mention that I regularly
employ a man and a woman as house-help.
The man has been with me for over four
years, and the maid for nearly five, which
should speak for itself.—Yours etc., A. G. M.
Small Holdings for Unemployed
Dear Bulletin, —So long as the demand
for labor is by nature irregular, we must
have casual workers; and so long as the
irregularity of the demand is dependent on
incalculable factors (such as good or bad
harvests or the opening or closing of a
mine), modern society will not work with-
out a large reserve of casuals always on the
spot available for rush periods. The only
alternative to the dead-end dole in slack
times for such men (if married) is an
outer-suburban block with cheap and rapid
transit to and from the town. To prevent
abuses, I think charitable relief should be
municipal (as in Britain) and that the
municipality should also have administration
of the Small Holdings and Allotments Act.
My experience is that unless charitable relief
fo able-bodied men out of work is in the
hands of those with minute local knowledge,
terrible abuses are inevitable. —Yours,
R. Y. R.
The N. S. Wales Savings Bank
Dear B.,—Business took me to a Sydney
branch of the G.S.B. to-day. There w T as a
staff of five present, but no customers other
than myself, and all the time I was there
no work was done except for myself. What
about dispensing with half the present staff
and crediting old depositors’ accounts with
the savings effected? The staff once had to
attend to over a million accounts. The
number now open is less than one-fifteenth
of that total. We are paying for this waste.
—Yours, Depositor.
Close Settlement for Unemployed
Dear B., —I returned to Townsville the
other day after a four-month walkabout in
search of work. In that period, by sweat
of brow, I earned: Woodcutting (one day)
10s., garden job (three hours) 25., garden
job (one day) 55., job for Chinaman (fill-
ing bottles, etc.) Is. 3d., total 18s. 3d. But
I consumed 80s. worth of Government dole,
and have worn out tw T o pairs of boots, two
shirts and four pairs of socks in the effort
of chasing that 38s. 3d. worth of work.
The position appears to me to be most
uneconomical; therefore I suggest to Mr.
Sizer (Minister in charge of the unemployed
problem in Queensland) that it would be
cheaper to give me a go on a small block of
land suitable for intense cultivation. In
this way I could work myself off the dole
and possibly produce something of benefit to
the country. At any rate, as the proposi-
tion includes my mate, we would be ulti-
mately saving the Queensland Government
the sum of £26 per annum in doles.
I am not a native-born Australian, but
came to this country 10 years ago at my
own expense. I am 34. I am an ex-officer
of the Imperial Army. I fought, in the war.
I've never been in gaol. And I am sound
in wind, limb —and mind.
Is Mr. Sizer game?—Yours sincerely, Gad.
A Five-year Plan for Australia
Dear B., —May I point out a flaw or two
in “Avon’s” suggestions (B. 7/10/’31)? (1)
“There’s plenty of Crown land.” So there is,
but any available now requires hard work
and considerable expenditure for ringing,
suckering, water supply, etc. And it would
not begin to be productive for at least three
years. (2) “Stock and farm implements
could be taken in lieu of taxes.” But their
late owner becomes unemployed in his turn.
It is a doubtful expedient to deprive an
experienced man of his living to replace
him by a mug. (3) “Give everybody
some useful work to do.” There is enough
useful work waiting to be done to employ
the population all their working hours for
the remainder of their lives. There are
only two drawbacks, (a) The people who
want the work done are unable or unwilling
to pay the wages demanded, and (b) uie
people who want the work are unwilling or
unable (owing to legal restrictions) to
accept the wages available.
Personally, I should be more inclined to
abolish every form of governmental interfer-
ence, inspection, regulation, or advice of
every kind and give us all an open slather.
The result would be that more people would
be employed in the first 12 months than
“Avon,” or even Mr. Forde, ever saw in a
pipe-dream.—Yours, Fitz William.
Sanctity of Contract
Dear Bulletin. —The N.S.W. Premier,
speaking at an Eight Hour celebration, is
alleged to have said : —-
For hundreds of years every Act of Parliament has
had written through it the sanctity of the written
contract. Public opinion has forced the deletion of
that iniquitous condition, and before many years
have passed it will not be the sanctity of the written
contract that is engraved in every Act of Parliament,
but the welfare of the people, which will take its
place.
The sanctity of contract iniquitous! He
surely must have said that the breaking of
the contract, either oral or written, would
be iniquitous. And well he might say so.
Honorable observance of contract is the
very basis of civilisation. Without it we
go back to savagery. And the people on
the lowest rung of the ladder would feel the
worst pinch. That is inevitable. It has
been the experience of centuries.
At a time like the present, when the whole
world is in turmoil, any measures which have
for their object the prevention of despair
and the renewal of confidence would natur-
ally meet with tho good wishes of all
parties in the State. It is therefore not
onlv regrettable, it is in the highest degree
politically criminal, that opportunity is not
given to all sides and sections of the people s
representatives to drop party feeling so as
to frame remedial mea-
sures which would be
free of so many, of
the gravely objection-
able features of recent
legislation. ■ —■ Yours
faithfully, George
Crowley.
As a Comm unist
Sees It
Dear Bulletin,—
As a Communist I
deplore this aimless,
senseless, mischievous
stuff falsely glorified
by the name of Labor
legislation. It repre-
sents the first crop
from the sowings of
a generation ago—
idealistic propaganda
which well - meaning
enthusiasts used to
inflict on what Labor
seems to regard as a
stationary world. Put
into operation then it
would have been vain.
Its belated trial in a
new world and a dis-
tressful one is about
as good as nihilism.
To advocate taking
control of production
for the people may
seem foolish to some.
To leave production in
private hands and
then tie those hands is
utter insanity. Bal-
loon-king Lang would
not be allowed to han-
dicap Phar Lap for
the Cup, but he is
cheerfully allowed to
trade on the preju-
dices of his mob by
handicapping industry
generally into becom-
ing a non-starter. —
Yours, G. M.
Labor’s Lost Soul
Dear Bulletin, —
In so far as unionism
has secured more
equitable conditions
for the worker it has
done a great service;
but that was when the
demands were based
upon honesty. As
soon as the “go-slow”'
policy was adopted by
union advocates to
ensure that the cap-
able workman should
get no better than his
less capable comrade,
unionism became a
dishonest combination,
as it entailed the rob-
bing not only of the
employer but also of
the laborer of his full
capacity and full re-
ward.
To put matters on
a proper footing free-
dom of contract must
be reverted to and
dishonest rules in
unionism abolished. 1
believe, from close
personal acquaintance,
that not less than 75
per cent, of the work-
ers would welcome such freedom, so that
they could, by reason, of their superior capa-
city, earn a better wage than at present,
leaving the lazy and incompetent to either
improve their capacity or suffer the natural
result in reduced remuneration.
I wish the thinking, honest workers would
get together in a union of their own, having
for its motto “Get as good wages as we can,
but whatsoever our hands find to do let us
do it with our might.” We should soon have
a different atmosphere around us, and the,
unemployment dole would be regarded as a
disgrace and an insult. —Yours faithfully,
Honesty is the Best Policy.
A Silver Standard for Australia
Dear Bulletin, —The collapse of an arti-
ficial attempt to restrict currency to the
one metal, gold, is Australia’s opportunity.
At present our currency notes bear on their
face the promise that they can be redeemed
on presentation at the head office of the
Commonwealth Bank in gold. That promise
we all know is impossible of fulfilment. If
we boldly adopted a silver standard and
made our notes repayable in silver coin, they
would be honest documents, for we could
easily produce enough silver to meet any
reasonable demand. Of course no one would
actually want a huge quantity of silver coin,
and therefore our note issue would go on, but
it would be on a sound and honest basis.
Such a change would give an impetus
to Australia’s mining industry, and would
enable needed public works to be carried out
on a scale that would materially help to
solve our unemployed problem, diminish use-
less and wasteful expenditure on doles, and
help to set the wheels of commerce and indus-
try at work again. It is certain we cannot
go on increasing unemployment and at
the same time diminishing the purchasing
power by burdensome taxation. There is a
very strong movement in Canada for the
adoption of the silver standard, and if Aus-
tralia were to bring about such a change
here it would materially help to lift a cloud
of despair, and inspire a hopeful outlook. —
Yours, POHKOBIDNI.
Closer Settlement in the North
Dear Bulletin, —In B. 30/9/’3l some-
one suggests opening the Northern Territory
for close settlement. In May, 1882, I in-
spected 40,000 acres of land on the Adelaide
River, offered to my firm for the cultivation
of sugar-cane. The river flows into Mel-
ville Straits, some miles north of Port
Darwin. There was not 100 acres of arable
land. The soil was blue clay; nearly all
the area was swamp. The river was fringed
with bamboos and mangroves. There was
no scrub, and very little forest timber. The
river was alive with alligators. We had
to get into our mosquito-nets (made of
calico and cheesecloth) before sundown and
lie there, stark naked (in May) until sun-up.
Respect for your space brings me to a close,
although I could write further, comparing
that part of Australia with our fertile North
Queensland. —Yours etc., Ap Rhys.
The Employment of Women
Dear Bulletin,— l am glad to have a
woman's view on the proposal to remove
women from industrial employment so that
men may have work to do —and am thereby
confirmed in my opinion. It seems tlia)
“Just a Woman” (B. 9/9/’3l) enjoys the
present condition, safe in her “intrusion,"
with a job and wages to spend, while man
is “out.” Without hinting that woman’s
normal place—the domestic sphere—is her
lot for all time, it was suggested that she
should remain in it as a simple sacrifice
in a time of national exigency.
Woman’s expenditure of money received
for employment is mainly devoted to “trim-
mings,” and provides the employment for
women. Man’s is more generally a provision
for employment of men —constructive and
national industry—and only man’s expendi-
ture of money can make possible The Bul-
letin programme of 9/9/’3l. No working
girl of writer’s acquaintance has ever paid
in at home more than shillings as board,
while her pounds went on trimmings. His
male friends always have paid in pounds
towards the home maintenance, which is, in
the aggregate, national maintenance. —Yours,
Viau.
Retrenchment or Ruin?
Dear Bulletin, —Since 1914 the cost of
Commonwealth departments, exclusive of
war-service liabilities, has increased from,
roughly, £13,000,000 to £35,000,000, and Vic-
toria’s governmental expenditure from
£11,000,000 to £28,000,000. Departments
have been duplicated, divided and sub-
divided ; staffs, salaries and emoluments in-
creased, hours shortened, costly buildings
erected for educational and other purposes
(three or four in the same neighborhood) ;
the cost of living increased by the bonus and
subsidy millions, and by scores of other
extravagances. And now when the inevit-
able collapse comes, instead of sweeping
away these borrowed-monoy luxuries, the
only remedy our legislators can suggest is
increased taxation, which will surely cause
further unemployment. Apparently making
liis next election sure is of more importance
to the full-time professional politician than
the country’s welfare.—Yours etc., Edward
T. Miles.
THE ORGANISER.
"The Executives of the National Association and the A.P.A. have agreed to conduct the next elections
as a united force. It is expected that all the anti-extremist parties in the State will be linked up with
the United Australia party.” —Daily paper.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872*
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. ltyan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock —Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TO MEET THE TIMES
- r'jt -
Oriental _
Melbourne* Premierfiot&
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced mt es ‘
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Taihoa”: The Maori traits of hospitality
and a strong distaste for unnecessary labor
are exemplified in the case of \\ lremu
Wakatu, who lives in a westland township.
Wiremu is a wonderful spinner of yarns, and
liis hearth is always crowded with listeners
on winter nights. So large did lus audi-
ences become that half of them could not
feel the benefit of the open fire. This did
not fit in with Wiremu’s idea of his duties
as a host, so he converted one side of Ins
reception-room into a fire-hearth. But the
idea of laying that huge fire worried Wiremu,
and after deep thought he placed at each
end of the hearth a door opening to the
fresh air. To lay his fire, Wiremu chains
a load of wood to a horse, leads it in one
door and across the hearth, and. exits by the
other door, leaving the wood in its appointed
place. , .
“Morita”: The French, in my experience,
can’t hold a candle to the Americans in the
matter of an appetite for frogs’ legs. Soon
after the Yanks arrived in France some ot
them came up to our mob for experience.
Near the tents we pitched for them was the
typical Flemish pond that held frogs by the
hundred. Before they’d sampled the brew in
our canteen there was a rush to the pond
not, as we thought, to wash off the dust of the
trip, but to slaughter frogs. All each frog
donated to the feast was its long hind legs,
lots of them (until we objected) being tossed
back into the water, still alive, after their
legs had been hacked off. Madam and her
brood from the farmhouse gazed open-
mouthed at the massacre, as astonished as
any of us. It took about 30 frogs to make
a feed for one Buddy.
* * * *
“Artifex” : Many years ago, when I was
young and romantic, I visited a shanty in
N.Q. where rum was sold, under the lap.
The camp was run by a couple of brothers
and consisted of calico tents built over
wooden frames. I was awaiting the mail
coach, which was late, so I camped m one
of these tents. I was awakened about mid-
night by a charming voice singing “If to
remember me should give thee pain, remem-
ber me no more.” Melody and articulation
were perfect. I didn't disturb the singer,
but lay quiet until it was finished, when I
crept out to view the vocalist. She was a big
fat black gin. She had been working at
Christisons’ Lammermoor station, and had
HE SPOKE ONLY OF WHAT HE
DID KNOW.
TEACHER (after explaining the harm done by
worms to the roots of plants, and by
sparrows to the foliage): “Now, Mickey,,
which is the worse —worms or sparrows?”
MICKEY: “I—l don’t know, teacher. I ain’t
never ’ad sparrers.”
learned the song by listening to the
daughters. It was a wonderful example of
mimicry, &s her 6V6ryd&y speech wss that of
the ordinary house gin.
#.* * *
“Pick” * The shyness of hush children
explains the difficulty often experienced in
locating them when
lost. On Mt. Cooper
station (N.S.W.)
200 riders combed
the ranges and
scrubs for a fort-
night seeking the
strayed 11-year-old
son of a shepherd.
Bush - fires, started
from night-time hill-
to p signal - flares,
then swept the area,
and the search was
abandoned. A week
later a traveller
crossing the burnt,
country suddenly
came upon the wait
feasting on wild
raspberries on a
creek bank, and cut
him off as he darted
for a hiding-place in
the rocks. After a
wild chase the strag-
gler was rounded up
and returned to his
parents. He snbse-
quently explained
that he had often
hidden when lie saw
men traversing the
hills. At Tarago, in
the same State, a
child of three wan-
dered from a farm.
Th e surroundings,
except for a bush
here or there, had
been cleared of
timber for miles. It
was shearing-time,
and shearers, shed-
hands and people
from the near-by
town scoured the
paddocks. For a
week the search was
feverishly continued
by 700 men. Then
the poor little chap
was found dead not .
three miles from home on a wire-netted run
that had been criss-crossed by searchers
every day.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Youse Aussies don’t know
what a pioneer’s life’s like, what with noth-
ing more savage than politicians about. I
remember once riding out of Nairobi to a
farm I owned near by. It was early days m
Kenya then, and the liquor I’d had at Jewey
Mark’s store was real firewater. The place
was lousy with lions, and after a bit i
notices the donk I was riding -horses
couldn’t live there at that time —was a bit
jumpy. I looks behind, and there, cantering
after me in the dusk, is one of the biggest
lions ever you saw. The donk and me laid
our ears back but I could hear the brute
gaining. Suddenly there was a terrible
screech from the donk and I felt myself
flung high in the air. By good luck I comes
down on his back again—I wasn’t using a
saddle—and hanging on with my arms round
his neck I urges him along the road, hell tor
leather. Then I feels a prop and a swerve
and remember nothing else. When I wakes
next morning with a horrible head I m lying
outside the door of my farmhouse with the
Kaffirs all round me with their eyes sticking
out of their heads. It took a lot oh ex-
plaining, but it appears that I arrived at
the door on the back of the lion, and came
unglued when he swerved off there. You
see, when he jumped for the donk, Neddy
must have slipped from under me, the lion
taking his place. Of course he was as
scared as I was, and held on up the track
until he shied at the house. I could do any-
thing with the Kaffirs after that, being
known to them as “The Baas Who Rode
Home on a Lion,” or words to that effect.
* * * *
“X 2”: Old-timer Billy Moncton on his
occasional visit to Uralla (N.S.W.) places
flowers on the grave of Fred Ward ( ‘Cap-
tain Thunderbolt”), shot by Constable
Walker on May 25, 1870. Moncton was for
three years a digging mate of Ward, and
worked with him as a station-hand lie is
the only man alive who can tell the true
story of the shooting of Thunderbolt —and
he won’t.
* * * *
“Tiki”: A resident in the prosaic Auck-
land suburb of Newmarket recently had a
strange experience. Hearing a noise among
the outbuildings at the back of the house,
and fearing burglars, who are very active in
these days of depresh, he and his son and
his terrier dog Marmaduke sallied forth to
investigate. At the end of a long search
the intruder was bailed up in a corner of
the kitchen garden. He was about 18in.
high, dressed in brown, with sturdy legs,
no arms whatever, black beady eyes and a
very long nose. He was frightened but
evidently prepared to sell his life dearly.
So the householder sent for the police. Ser-
geant Gilhooley arrived and scratched his
PRESCIENCE.
DAVE: “I see old Bill Duffy’s dead. Why, I thought he was
gettin’ better.”
JACKY: “No fear, boss. 1 been know it all up with him soon as
I seen his coffin.”
head. “I can’t arrist him,” he said. “There s
nothing ag’inst his character, an’ he belongs
to wan av the ouldest families in the
Dominion. On enclosed primises by night
he certainly is, but lie’s not legally a tres-
passer. Lind me yon petrol-case an Hi
take him over to the daypo an’ give him a
feed ” So a badly-scared little kiwi got
a good lodging for the night and next day
found a permanent home in the city zoo.
* *
“Escrita” : A Tassie bank manager recently
unearthed a case of real patriotism. An old
cocky was getting a loan from the bank.
Security was arranged with the
of an amount of something under ±luO.
The manager suggested using a Common-
wealth bond, which he knew the farmer pos-
sessed, for that amount. He was rather
surprised at the information that his client
had got rid of his bond, and surprise turned
to amazement when the agriculturist
said that “as the country is in such a
rotten bad way, everyone orter do their bit;
so I gave it to Joey Lyons in that there
conversation business.” When he found that
the country had only taken a further loan ot
the money' he decided things were not so bad
after all.
ifc # * *
“Bald Iv.”: Though the South Johnstone
River (N.Q.) teems with fish, no matter what
dainty morsel is placed on the hook the
finny fellows won’t touch it. This is due
to the molasses discharged into the river from
the! sugar-mill near by. At first the sweet stuft
killed thousands of fish, but gradually they
developed a liking for it. and to-day they
are fat and thriving. But the only way
to catch them is by spearing. Local sports-
men use a pair of Japanese diving-glasses
and a sharpened bamboo rod.
* $ 4 *
“Mundowie”: Diaries of some of the
pioneers of Coraki (N.S.W.) are carefully
preserved in that little Richmond River
town. According to these records the great
problem of pioneering times was getting
married. The nearest clergyman was at
Grafton, a hundred miles away. A cedar-
getter and his girl, having no means of get-
ting there, married themselves by throwing
a stone into the river and vow-ing to be
true to each other “till the stone floated.
Another couple got tired of waiting, and at
last the lady said: “We can’t go round the
world looking for a parson. Let us begin
together and get married when one turns
up.” The man agreed, and when a parson
did arrive at the outlandish village the
marriage ceremony was a preliminary to
the baptism of seven youngsters.
THE ADDICT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see him still, in battered hat,
When dusk upon the landscape steals;
Upon a log he sometimes sat,
But oftener upon his heels.
There wasn’t any need to ask
At what he wrought in hours like these.
We knew his literary task
Was “Aboriginalities.”
He made it plain for all to see
That there was nought he valued more
Than being, if infrequently,
A Btjlleteen eontribut-or.
His stubby pencil never flew,
Just crawled along by slow degrees;
With knitted brows he labored through
His “Aboriginalities.”
No time for politics he’d got
Or any ear for bubbling verse.
Finance he mostly reckoned rot
And sport a nuisance and a curse.
But ev’ry week old Dave would strike
An item and upon it seize
For “something that they oughtcr like
In ‘Aboriginalities.’ ”
’Twas seldom he arrived in print,
But, when he did, his whiskered plnz
Would beam and glow as if the Mint
And most of what’s therein were his.
That all his life he’d closely scanned
The Bush, its beasts and birds and trees,
I-Ie claimed, should give him full command
Of “Aboriginalities.”
He knew it all, from A to Z,
Squatters and cockies, rams and ewes,
The stockyard and the shearing-shed
To ways of dingoes and of ’roos.
What pleased him best of all, perhaps,
Was setting straight with practised ease
The bloomers made by other chaps
In “Aboriginalities.”
He’s gone the path we all must go, .
He’s climbed, let’s hope, the Golden Stair;
And yet I somehow think, you know,
He’ll find existence tedious there,
And weary of the music’s swell
In realms where Peter keeps the keys,
Unless, where saints and angels dwell,
There’s some “Celestial Chronicle”
For “Aboriginalities.”
N.S.W.
PIPABDS.


QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
IW onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety I-U9 3
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
44
EOTHEN”
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
[ GARAGE
inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
- Central 528
Mr». PARKER
đ
PAYING GUESTS
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
d
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cut*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
“Tidapa”: Jimmy Greig's accomplish-
ments (“Barangkali,” B. 23/9/’3l) were
not confined to surgery. Twenty years ago
the American four-master Amazon just
managed to make Fanning Island leaking
badly forwards after istriking .some sub-
merged object. There was no diving-dress
on the island, but Greig guaranteed to
repair the damage. In a day be fashioned
a diving-dress from tarred canvas, an
ordinary bucket with mica eyeholes serving
for a helmet, and a garden hose for the
air-line. In this suit Greig went down in
six fathoms, and, staying below for 30
minutes at a stretch, completed repairs in
two days so satisfactorily that the ship
was able to complete her voyage.
* * * =i=
“N.T.”: One of the mysteries of the
pioneer days of overland droving was the
disappearance of a complete outfit, leaving
no trace save the bones of its boss. One
of the biggest mobs taken into the Territory
from Queensland in 1872 by way of the Roper
River was under the care of Charlie Nation.
On the way to Darwin in the opening months
of ’73 drovers came upon the remains of
Nation, identified by a letter in liis pocket.
There was also a pencilled note to his friend
Scott in Darwin: “I bid you eternal fare-
well. I am in my senses at present, by the
blessing of God.” The reconstructed story
was that blacks had swooped on the camp,
killed the drovers and driven away the horses
and cattle, but the leak in the yarn is that
not a bone of the men Nation had with him
nor hide nor hoof of the animals was ever
found.
* * * *
“Chloe”: There’s a simple explanation of
how “Jim Carew’s” liana (B. 7/10/’3l)
became stretched taut from tree to _ tren
across a deep gully. A length of liana,
swinging in the wdnd, has attached itself by
its prehensile stem growths to a branch or
stem of a young sapling which has also been
bending in the wind. The tree straightens
itself and adds feet to its growth, and thus
the liana is pulled taut, and may become
horizontal.
* * * #
“Foumart”: Concerning the fulminations
of “Homfrey Beale” on my ignorance of
ferrets (B. 16/9/’3l). “Doc” (B. 19/8/’3l).
whom he defends, said nothing about using
the ferrets-for netting. I saw this old dodge
in the Bareoo country long before I ever
saw a ferret or a rabbit —a small fox-terrier
was sent down the big burrows to drive out
the bilbies. Later in England I saw ferrets
DEAD FINISH THIS TIME!
BILLY: “I’m fed up! I’m clearin’ out.” _
MARY: “Baal! Before dark mine tinkit you bin come back.”
BILLY: “No fear! This pfeller no pinny boomerang!”
CONTRARY WINDS.
LADY PASSENGER: “Well, Captain, you may be right in saying it’s a nor’-west wind;
but I’m sure there is a bit of southerly in it.”
used with the nets many a time and oft, and
a frequent drawback was the ferret’s ten-
dency to “lie up” when he cornered a bunny.
If he had muzzles and bells all over him it
would make no difference to the fact that
lie would have to be dug out. “Lining” the
beast was often resorted to, but as likely
as not he would hitch himself up on some
underground root- —especially in hedgerow
burrows, and once more the spade was called
for. Bolting the rabbits from the unnetted
burrows was another use to which the ferret
was put in the Cold Country. The guns
stood well out in the field, and some very
pretty .snap-shooting could be got as bunny
ducked from one hole to the next.
“Flossie G.”: One of the
advantages of living in Can-
berra is that it brings one into
touch with Nature—flora and
fauna and all that sort of thing.
The fauna we typists are at
present most interested in are
the magpies. They lie in wait
for us walking across the pad-
docks to work. They swoop
down from a convenient tree or
telegraph-pole, flapping their
wings round unprotected heads
—it’s unfashionable to go to
office in a hat in Canberra. If
you see an erstwhile sedate
young lady suddenly leaping
about like Pavlova, you know
that a magpie has darted down
and nipped a bit out of an ear,
or made a bad shot at an eye.
The typists arrive at their
offices quite shaken after early-
morning encounters with a par-
ticularly malignant maggie. He
perches on a fence waiting for
them to pass, and then makes
a rush at a liatless head. They
beat him off with sticks, but
nothing daunts him. One in-
trepid soul has determined to
exterminate the piebald mon-
ster, and sallies forth with a
bundle of sticks and stones.
Wearing an inverted wicker
waste-paper basket as a helmet
she proceeds to the field of
battle. Presently there are
harsh screeches from an infuri-
ated magpie, which successfully
dodges the missiles and makes
angry dashes at the hated occu-
pant of the waste-paper basket.
So far the honors are with the
magpie.
•i: it: *•»
“Yam” : The attitude of the abo. mother
towards her offspring is something no fellow
can understand. Met a gin travelling in the
Warri district (n.-w. N.S.W.) without the
piccaninny sin; had been accustomed to carry,
and asked her where it was. She said: “No
good that one, too much cry. All day long
cry. Mine chuck him away.” Near Yal-
punga, a little east of the Warri, a gin .had
twins, and the weaker of the two was given
short shrift. The police took a hand, and
before the beak she pleaded inability to rear
two at once, or to carry them and the camp-
ware about. “One pfeller plenty longa me,”
she said. “Baal me dingo.” On the other
hand, many a gin has carried for weeks
the body of an infant which has died a
natural death. In such a case it would
be first tightly bound up and dried. And
there is the record of the abo. woman
who was abducted from the mainland by
sealers on Kangaroo Island. Pining for
her own people, she stole away from the
camp one night and, with her child
on her back, swam across Backstairs Pass-
age, which is over nine miles in the narrow-
est part, swept by strong currents, and
infested with sharks. Both died from exhaus-
tion after landing. When found the young-
ster was still clinging to its mother's neck.
* # * *
“L.W.” : Chaps on the track in the arid
Outback would find their washing problem
greatly simplified if they took a tip from
the Mexicans, who wash a number of gar-
ments in a dipperful of water. The water
is poured carefully on the garment, none
being allowed to drip to the ground until
it is saturated. Soap is then rubbed well
into it. Then it is rolled into a compact ball
and gently bumped against a round stone,
being turned slightly between each sodden
thud. A little w T ater, thick with dirt, is
forced out of the fabric at each bump, and
a few drops are poured ,on to it occasionally
to keep it moist. The process is continued
until the water comes out fairly clean, when
the garment is wrung and dried. No amount
of scrubbing at the tub will get it cleaner.
* * * *
“Betul”: If the sins of the fathers can be
wiped out by the penance of the sons, the
parents of an Indian who is a well-known
figure in Singapore will rest easy in their
graves. Close on 80, this fellow-subject has,
since early childhood, kept his right arm
stretched straight up from his shoulders,
never relaxing even in sleep, until the limb
has become deformed, and he would find it
impossible to lower it should he wish to do
so. When I was in Singapore the . nails of
his clenched hand had grown straight
through the back of the hand and were com-
mencing to curl back again between the
fingers. The authorities have now com-
pelled him to cover the horror with cloth.
AGREEMENT AT LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One vanished morn, in fortune’s wake, while
tramping over Hannan’s Lake,
I overtook Contrary Jake and passed the
time o’ day.
Forlorn beside the rutted road he sat upon
his worldly load,
The image of a stranded toad from some
far pool astray.
He met my greeting with a glare. He scruti-
nised me then and there
As though I were a fossil rare, some pre-
historic jay.
Despite his stubbled visage grim, I strove to
cobber up with him.
“The future and its chances slim may
brighter seem,” I said,
“With one in whom I might confide and
swap a yarn with as we stride.
The journey with a mate beside may shrink
the miles ahead.”
“Look here, young cove,” he snarled, “I’ll
go with you to kingdom come, but
know
We’ll be compelled to travel slow; I’m
humpin’ tent and bod.
“Your swag is like a serviette; you haven’t
travelled much. I’ll bet;
Your troubles haven’t started yet; you’ll
suffer when it rains.
And such a day as this I’ll swear your water-
bag won’t see you there,
And, blow me, mine will never spare a sup
to ease your pains.”
Our journey till the day was spent was just
a walking argument,
As through the crimson dust we bent, per
boot, to Hampton Plains.
“It’s hellish hot, the flies are bad —enough
to drive us ravin’ mad
What makes them swarm along this pad?”
I groaned aloud ; and he
Gave answer : “Lad, you’re soft and green.
They’re not so vicious as they’ve been ;
In fact, so few I’ve rarely seen—the cows
don’t bother me.”
“The sand,” I cried, “is deep and drear”;
but Jake replied: “Don’t moan so
queer,
It’s acres better movin’ here than further
on will be.”
I then remarked “There’s little shade. Of
grass there’s not a single blade —
The damnedest place' God ever made, is
this.” Jake disagreed:
“It’s like a park compared with some
expanses where I’ve swung the drum.
Wait till it rains; the grass will come—
there’s still a pick of feed.”
I sulked and walked a space apart. For one
to whom I could impart
My woes I yearned; some kindred heart
my sorry plight to heed.
’Neatli summer evening’s torrid spell, oer
stony ridge and sandy swell
We staggered on till darkness fell, and
soon a light winked near.
“Ah, well, I’ve still a bob or two,” I sighed.
“To-night, when we get through,
Would it be wrong to shout for you?”
Jake roared: “No bloomin’ fear!”
When I declared that I could sight the
Feysville pub Verandah light
Jake bellowed back: “By Hell, you’re
right; I’m with you for a beer.”
N.s.w.
WHEOGO.


I Air t inilKF-ln the Romantic
Canadian Rockies
LINGER awhile at Lake Louise on
the Canadian Pacific route to Eng-
land. Every minute of your stay will be
a new ar.d joyous adventure. In the
spruce-scented air and sunshine, and
with a background of amazing scenic
beauty you will find many thrilling
pleasures riding climbing swim-
ming tennis and happy evenings of
dancing, bridge and concerts at • the
Chateau. Only reached via Canadian
Pacific. Write for literature.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
11/31-2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Lake Louise from the Chateau.
2 he World's Greatest travel System
TO-DAY— TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
Cbirnnoiiwcaltl) Savings link of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
SMOKE-OH!
“The latest ears have a free-wheeling - device.”
What marvels these Scottish engineers
are!
* *
“A ray of light could be caught in the telescope
of the observatory at Church Hill and could be
amplified and used to operate the mechanism that
would ‘open’ the bridge. —“Sunday Sun.”
We’d be better pleased if someone would
only capture a ray of hope for those who
have to foot the £10,000,000 bill for the
thing.
A TEMPERANCE REFLECTION.
“Brethren, the dark shadow of the bottle is ever with us.”
“The number of students entered for the dental
course at Melbourne University this year is 50,
compared with 94 in 1926.”—' “Argus” report.
There is no reason to doubt, however, that
the profession will pull through the depres-
sion.
* #
CRISIS IN GINGE’S CAREER.
“How old are you, Meggs?”
“Ooh, Mr. Baneks, don’t do it. Don’t you
go for to do it, sir. Ooh ! Ooh !”
“Stop blubbering and answer my ques-
tion.”
“Ooh! Ooh! I’m only nine. Only nine, as
Heaven’s me judge, Mr. Baneks.”
“You’re lying, Meggs. I have been examin-
ing your birth certificate in the archives of
the ‘Sun’ office.”
“Only nine larst ’arvo, Mr. Baneks. Ooh!
Ooh ! Arsk me mother.”
“Your mother died of old age, accentuated
by dropsy, in 1926. Am I not right*.'’
’ “Y-yes.”
“Min, I find, was married in the following
year, and is now a mother. Do you deny it.
“N-no.”
“Nor can you deny, Meggs, that you, too,
have left childhood’s days far
behind. You were 21 on the
9th ult.”
“Ooh ! Ooli!”
“Pull yourself together,
man, and cease shooting tears
like hen’s eggs at me. I shall
be obliged to make drastic
re-adjustments. You must
have you hair cut”
“Ooh ! Ooh ! I ain’t ’ad it
cut fer over ten”
“Be silent. You must also
cease wearing scarlet
shoes”
“You’ll be the rooin of me.
Mr. B.”
“You are as destructive as
a monkey; you annoy every-
body ; you have the dangerous
gift of being able to shed
tears at will, and your omis-
sion to escape, though given
repeated opportunities so to
do, when recently kidnapped
by Black Jake Burke proves
that you are either a criminal
or a half-wit. There is but
one career open to you in
adult life, Meggs. Politics.
You will face our public shortly as an
M.Lt.A. and advocate of the Liang plan. Now
go and burn those clothes.”
“Ooh ! Ooli! Ooh !”
WHERE BUSINESS HUMS.
11l fares the land, to brooding wrongs a
prey, where wealth accumulates and men
decay; but no such evil Whiddon’s fair
State knows, for
when we’ve five an’
threepence in it
goes. Thus, all
about, the visitor
may see our coun-
try seething with
prosperitee.
The man who
mends my boots or
sells me fags, the
newsboy and the
bloke who tips the
nags that lose the
races; social stars
superb, and coves
that play on cor-
nets on the kerb;
dealers in bogus
furniture and pot-
tery—a 11 blew
the i r cash on
tickets for the
lottery.
Thus trade is
brisk; on all sides
tickets bloom, and
dull depression
rushes from the
the room. The
joyous time
approaches when
we may have an
expensive lottery
each day. We’ve
lifted industry
from its old rut
and in its new
form hundreds take
a cut; our pockets
of their silver
swiftly bleed, and
business hums —
yes, business hums,
indeed!
H. M.
Regarding that proposed bridge toll:
Then up spake shrewd Longinus,
An old hand at the job :
We’ll hold this bridge, and none shall pass
Who fails to pay a bob!
¥ *
“ ‘At the Taronga Zoo,’ says an observant keeper,
‘certain types of human beings are drawn to certain
animals. Invariably,’ he declares, ‘politicians linger
about the monkey pit.’ ” —“Sunday Sun,”
We always thought of them as students
of the porcupine—they’ve worked so many
points on us.
* *
“ ‘I don’t mind where I write,’ said Alice Grant
Rosman, ‘but my favorite position is lying flat out
on the floor.”— “Herald.”
A lot of us are doing our writing down
and flat out at present.
“Much bitterness is being introduced into the con-
flict between opposing sections of the Labor party.”
— “Argus”
Labor’s love’s lost, so to speak.
* *
THE N. S. WALES BETTER FILMS
SOCIETY VISITS THE S.C.G.
Prof. Glumph said the show was crude and
vulgar, and had no entertainment-value. The
star, Mr. “Boy” Bradman, was mis-cast.
The approval with which hoi polloi received
CONSIDERATION.
HIS FAHTER-IN-LAW : “But surely you can’t
stand by and see the poor girl break her
heart.”
HIM: “No, of course I can’t. I’m going
out.”
him proved it. The most aesthetically satis-
fying work was that of the anonymous
artist who, when the star by a coarsely
violent gesture broke his bat, brought out a
new one. The technique of the walk from
the pavilion was sound, and the ceremonial
of “the handing-over” was well done. He
ventured to predict that the player respons-
ible would go far. Why did not managements
give us more thoughtful work
of this kind, and less of the
harmful flamboyancies of
Mr. Bradman ?
Miss Anguish said she
knew nothing of cricket, and
rarely visited a cricket
ground. Mr. Archie Jack-
son was frightful. The
decor of the scoring-board,
seen against its pastel back-
ground of cement and wooden
fence, was soothing, and
some of the > patterns made
by the weaving shadows of
the lemonade-boys had a
haunting beauty. She thought
bowling should be done away
with. She had written to
the directors pointing out
that Mr. Kelleway—wittily
summed up by a scholarly
neighbor as “the Baudelaire
of the popping-crease”—
would be better cast as an
umpire. Or should she have
said long-stop? She really
didn’t know. So far, she
had had no reply.
Dame Augusta Bellows,
C.8.E., said she was scan-
dalised by the cultural
breaches of the spectators.
Vulgarity and slanginess
were rampant. “Bonza!”
“Oh, you beaut!” “Get a
bag!” Such were the cries
with which her ears were
affronted. And then there
was the Australian voice.
She really thought the
society should do something
about it without delay. They
must remember that impres-
sionable little ones, as well
as adults, patronised these
shows {Prof. Glumph:
“Shame!”).
Prof. Poodles said the
major menace was un-
healthy excitement. In their efforts to, at
the same time (if he might be permitted to
split an infinitive), improve entertainment-
value and deodorise evil they must begin
by eliminating the excitement-complex. The
glee of the crowd at the sadistic spectacle
of the star “flogging the bowlers” was as
saddening as it was significant. Why this
act (which he was thankful to say he hadn’t
witnessed owing to his short-sightedness*
was passed by the censor was more than a
serious-minded reformer could understand.
What was to be expected of the race when
flagellation was thus publicly inculcated.'
Their society must work to have these dis-
gusting exhibitions superseded by shows oi
a more mentally improving and morally ele-
vating character. Say, spelling bees. A
spelling bee, he submitted, if staged in the
middle of the Cricket Ground, would attract
many thoughtful people of both sexes. {Prof.
Glumph: “Hear! Hear!”) There was no
unhealthy excitement about a spelling bee.
{Dame Augusta Bellows, C.8.E.: ‘Quite. )
He had never entered a cricket ground before,
and he hoped he never would again. {Mrs*
Anguish: “Hear! Hear!”)
* *
“Wallet containing notes found in a wheat truck.
So there’s still some money in the stuff.
* *
“After the race a live battery was found on the
eourse.”
Some trainers don’t care a dump for No
Sparking rules.
* *
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
According to Professor Tosli, Joshua,
though a magician rather than a musician
(his great illusion of making the sun
moon appear to stand still used to go
big in Palestine), became secretary to
Hebrew Professional Musicians’ Union l
canned music first caught on. Eventuallj
musicians were compelled to “wander in
wilderness,” i.e., the Domain. The trouble
came to a head in Jericho, where the in-
fluence of Philistia was strong, and as an
outcome the word “Philistine” remains to
this day a term of contempt in artistic
circles.
Joshua organised the first recorded irrita-
tion strike. Armed with placards proclaim-
ing that they were being ruined by Philistine
canned music, the musicians walked around
the walls of Jericho, blowing loudly on their
horns, oboes, trombones, etc. The inhabi-
tants, maddened by “I’m Dancing with Tears
in My Eyes,” played over and over again,
gathered on their walls, tore away the
stones, and hurled them down at the circling
musicians. So the walls of Jericho fell,
and the hardy survivors of the bombardment
entered the city, and came to a satisfactory
arrangement with the party in power at the
Town Haul.
The effect of this victory was far-reaching.
Tosh points to the incident in which King
Saul hurled his javelin at David as that youth
played upon his harp as showing that, whilst
a musician might be killed, fear of the union
made it impossible to sack him.
ALWAYS SO THOUGHTFUL.
THE WRECK: “Lit preshent, m’dear. Bin all over place
getting them.”
WIFE: “What are they, you sponge?”
WRECK: “Mothsh, darling—keep the camphor outer
your clothes,”
Tosh’s sympathies are with Saul. In
a report of the incident which he has
discovered in the files of the Bethle-
hem “Banner,” it appears that the kins had
urged David to change the tune, and David
had told him to “Go to Jericho” —an arrogant
reminder of what was likely to happen to
people who got “up against” the union,
H. M.
A RIGHTEOUS LOTTERY.
“By insuring against 20 points of rain falling on
a certain day, Hyde golf club made a considerable
sum of money.”
Now listen, good wowsers, to me while I
sing
Of a scheme for our moral salvation;
My aim is to let one and all have a fling
In a morally sound ''consultation.”
We’ll have an insurance that’s run by the
State,
And our policies take on the rain.
Our friend Mr. Whiddon the boss we will
make,
Though, he’ll trespass on Nangle’s terrain.
Instead of revolving his barrel renowned,
He will measure the rain—if there’s any —
On a■ specified date when we’ll gather around,
’Twill give righteous excitement to many.
To insure, as all know, is both worthy and
wise,
Though to gamble is unalloyed sin;
And. so through our failings to virtue we’ll
rise,
And we’ll still give our money a spin.
A. B. K.


For Three
Good Reasons
Sydney’s NEW Afternoon
Daily Newspaper
:■" ‘ ~ *
~o 'A
%
NT
//•
fcs
sr
0
/
yj
-**:• ■ }
*T
$
2
-
I
c y%
K
di
35
m
%
yp
TO
will appeal to YOU
BECAUSE you will appreciate its bright, up-to-the-
minute presentation of news as news and not as political
propaganda.
BECAUSE you will find in “The World” that every
feature of the paper is treated in the crisp, sparkling style
that is the hallmark of the expert modern journalist.
And BECAUSE you will be able to trust “The
World” as a newspaper in the very best sense of the word —
sane, dignified and reliable, and above all intensely
Australian.
A
VERY GREAT NEWSPAPER
to be published on
Monday, October 26, 1931


d
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. gS
Plum Razor Guard
ď
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits tin., fin, and |in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&he PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-dav sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each
razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
charge.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE HORSE.
“Penfield” : It’s 20 years since there was
such a demand for horses in Australia,
especially draught sorts. Four things are
helping. (1) The farm-tractor is beginning
to call for a lot. of attention. There was a
big rush to buy these things during the
boom in wool and wheat prices; but now
the old jigger is asking for renewals or re-
placements, and there isn’t the money to
thnrn (o\ The wintpv was one of the
best the back country ever had, and there
is feed evcrvwhere With a team of horses
you ean C get; s your '‘motor-spirit’’ almost any-
where for nothing. (3) The people who have
been financing the farmers (including the
T? T■» m « have mostly shut
“own on pSieTol bra£. (4) ? There
is a general feeling in the country that it
helped to cut out its own best customer when
it nreviouslv turned the horse down.
1 ' JK agaS the horse did
what the tractor couldn’t do during the
fpqrfnllv wet winter (Some of these days
“Aboriginalities” ought to compile a list of
min <sll thins-* the flood waters of 3931
did There’s the Mirrool Creek for instance,
out beyond Temora, which you’ are liable to
cross most times without knowing it; this
veo,- if rsni five miles wide and for the
first time within white-man’s knowledge
reached the Lachlan.) There was an
intoroofino 1 pvflmnlp nf whflt LllO IIOI*SO Oilll
do on the M™mlidgee Rrfgation“ In
hSS the
emu is almost rine Just after this job
letrl Been rimie the lie's w rain bestan and the
m Soon a pret°ty welf evSy
working horse and bullock within a hundred
miles was hitched off ® bn? ctSi ' toS
J fn some *aJd the
it
would do a wheat ciop. Rut (< 2|use the
cost of getting it ott and into maiket was
very heavy. There was about 25,000 tons
of it altogether—more than enough to take
care of Australia s requirements.
PFTTTRTSrS FROM FAT LAMBS
,UY ~ ~ UJU , 1 u '
’Gohghtly : f armers who have gone n
for fat-lamb production in A.S.u. are get-
ting good cheques. Others, knowing this,
are rushing to purchase, at saleyards and
elsewhere, ew r es to \v 1 1 icli fat-lamh-pi oducing
rams have been joined. A short-sighted
policy. It pays best to supervise the mating
iinon the farm. If you are going in for
the business, buy high-class sires if you
have to pawn your socks. Good merino
ewes are now to be had cheap. The pure
Dorset Horn ram stands alone for mating
with them to produce fat suckers. Wheat-
farmers who realise the fact and make the
most of their opportunities will beat the
depression
A neighbor of mine this year bought
Dorset Horn rams A station-owner promptly
supplied him with a thousand cast-for-age
ewes, and was glad to be rid of them. The
lamhs were four months old when mothers
and offspring were trucked to market. That
station-owner and that farmer divided over
£BOO
Consider also this year’s results from
two adjoining farms on trefoil country in the
Merriwa (NSW ) district. My returns were
20 bales of comeback and fine crossbred ewes’
wool, very burry, which averaged £7 10s.
per bale—£l7o* Then 780 fat. suckers
netted 30s 4d.—£403; a total of £503 per
1000 ewes. Dorset Horn rams were joined
with comeback and fine cross ewes to pro-
duce these results. The season’s proceeds
are in hand, and the increase' has been
cashed. A dry summer can be faced without.
anxiety. My neighbor has a fair average
woolgrowing merino flock, which cut 30
bales per 1000 and realised £S 30s. per
hale for very burry wool; total, £254 per
3.000 ewes. His increase of wool-growing
merino lambs is over-stocking the farm, and
is at present unsaleable. . Obviously neither
of these returns is anything to boast about;
but I maintain that on trefoil country,
which so heavily discounts a wool-growing
proposition, farmers should go in for fat
lambs.
GETTING UP A CLIP.
“Murrawong”: “Floodmark” offers some
questionable advice in the course of his
remarks on getting up a small wool-clip
(B. 30/9/’3l). The farmer with 1000 sheep
or fewer may handle liis clip in several
ways, dependent on his knowledge of wool.
Even if he knows a bit about classing, he
is going to find the bulk of such a small
clip destined for the star lots, and that s a
cold, cheerless place these days. It lie
knows little or nothing about the get-up of
a clip, his best plan is to skirt and roll
the fleeces, pack them carefully in bales and
consign them to some competent firm which
carries on repacking and pooling. This sys-
tem has met with success, especially during
the past few years, when the competi-
tion for small lines of mixed wool has
dwindled almost out of sight. As to
branding bales, I must contradict '‘Flood-
mark” on one or two points. (1) If you
call your top line “Ist Combing,” brand
your second line “Combing,” not “2nd Comb-
ing.” The same applies to pieces or any
other line of wool. It may be reckoned
a small matter, but it is important. Buyers
are the objectors, and my advice is not merely
theoretical. (2) Wool which can be legally
branded “Clothing” is scarce these days and
most unlikely to be found to any extent on
a small farm. Shortness of staple as sug-
gested by “Floodmark” is only a minor
characteristic; the chief qualities are ex-
treme fineness and density. (3) Don’t,
brand anything “Fleece” if you can find
another name for it. Tender wool may go
under that, brand, but for ordinary purposes
brand your main lines “AAA,” “AA,” “A” and
“Comb.” The small man who can find more
lines in his clip than these will embrace
should have no hesitation in forwarding his
fleece lines to some reliable firm for hand-
ling.
“Sheepo” : There’s room for improvement
in “Floodmark’s” system of fleece-branding.
No amateur classer can determine wliat a
clothing wool really is; this should be left
to the buyers. What may be a clothing
wool to one section of those people is not
necessarily so to another section. Several
Continental mills have machinery that can
comb a shorter-stapled wool than English
and American mills can. Brand your fleece
wools in order of merit, say. “AAA,” “AA,”
“A”; if there is to be a fourth class, it may
be branded “Fleece.” This system is recom-
mended by all brokers. And bales contain-
ing two or more sorts of wool should not
be included in the consignment. Any wool
left over and insufficient to make a full
bale should either be sent away as a fadge
or put into bags.
SHODDY SHEEP.
“Moonta” : The Australian Society of Breed-
ers of British Sheep was perturbed to receive
a complaint from S. Aus. of laxity shown
in supervising the quality of imported sheep.
The complainant had paid heavy prices for
a consignment of studs shipped by the Suf-
folk Sheep Society in England, and found
them on arrival to be far from the guaran-
teed standard. His view was backed by
South Australian inspectors, one of whom
stated that if he had been asked to pass the
animals for inclusion in the Australian stud
stock-book he would have refused to do so.
The English society maintained that the
sheep were of first-class quality, and that
seems to be all the satisfaction the importer is
to get. There have been other complaints, and
the Australian body has resolved to write
to the nine English breed societies, calling
attention to the fact that some of the im-
portations from England were of a type cal-
culated to damage the breeds in this country.
As the matter stands, in this case, the
importer has the inferior sheep on his hands
and .someone in Suffolk has got rid of his
culls and received £3OO of Australian money
in exchange.
THE EXPORT OF STUDS.
“Valerin”: Mr. Ulick Browne, writing
(B. 7/10/’3l) re the export of stud sheep,
asks what would have been thought if the
U.K. had refused to export its stud animals.
There is no analogy between the cases.
Britain is always assured of a local market
for all she can produce. Australia uses
only seven per cent, of her wool production
of 900,000,0001 b. And Russia has millions of
acres suitable for the production of merino
wool equal to average Australian. Tne
U.S.S.R. only wants the co-operation of
our merino shecpbreeders to make a com-
plete success of the Five-year Plan for the
enslavement of the world. The U.S.A. ex-
perts, who taught the Bolshies how to
organise and mechanise the Soviet wheat
farms, are wondering what they will do with
the three and a half million bankrupt Ameri-
can farmers. That ought to be a hint to us.
WHY PIG-FARMING DOESN’T
PROSPER.
One reason why pig-farming has made
such little progress in Australia—it is an
immensely important industry in Denmark
and the U.S.A. —is strongly indicated in an
article contributed to the N.S.W. "Agricul-
tural Gazette” for October by Chief Chemist
Ramsay and Senior Veterinary Surgeon San-
derson. It is that “a very large number of
pig-farmers” feed their stock “’almost ex-
clusively” on hotel and restaurant refuse.
The officers mentioned conducted an investi-
gation into “the cause of considerable mor-
tality among young pigs,” district unspeci-
fied. They found that the breeding sows were
under-nourished, and that their offspring
were weak, some dying within a few days of
birth and the survivors being poor specimens.
These pigs were fed wholly on refuse from
hotels, restaurants aaid greengroceries.
Analysed, this ration proved to be defi-
nitely unbalanced. There was enough pro-
tein, but too little carbohydrates and far
too much fat—“more than four times that
required.” Analysis of swill from other
localities yielded, except in one particular,
substantially the same results —“far too much
fluid, fat and protein, and too little carbo-
hydrates, lime and phosphoric acid.”
The writers allow that “there is a very
great amount of good pig feed to be obtained
from refuse, provided means can be found
to utilise it on sound nutritional lines.”
But “in other parts of the world it is used
as an adjunct to foods of known composi-
tion and proved feeding value for pigs.... as
a feed destined to furnish nitrogenous material
principally. Pig-feeders in this State do
not appear to have recognised this fact, and
have failed in consequence to utilise the
refuse to the best advantage.” According
to Messrs. Ramsay and Sanderson, “it is
impossible to suggest any certain means of
converting feed of such divergent nutritive
values into a uniform balanced ration,” but
they advise feeders of refuse “to reduce
the water added to the swill by at least, one-
third, skim off the fat after boiling and add
crushed wheat in the proportion of 31b. to
the gallon. In addition, an ounce of steril-
ised boncmeal and an equal quantity of salt
should be added to each 30 gallons of swill.
The use of green feeds in the raw state has
also been advocated. It is frankly admitted
that these suggestions are but a crude
attempt to balance the ration, and the result
of the advice given will be watched with
interest. Further work on the feeding of
refuse to pigs is proceeding.”
ON A WESTRALI AN FARM.
“Dunboy”: I have two paddocks which
adjoin, each of 100 acres. Last year these
paddocks were fallowed. No. 1 had been
cropped the previous year; No. 2 had had a
season’s rest. They were fallowed early
and received equal cultivation; they were
seeded with Gluclub in mid-April this year,
the seeding being completed before the advent
of rain. As I write No. 2 paddock is ready
for the binder; No. 1 will not be ready for
another fortnight. No. 2is fairly free from
weeds, has little take-all, and has grown
high and level; No. 1 has grown indiffer-
ently, patchily, with weeds and take-all
abounding.
Rest and crop rotation are absolutely
essential if we Westralian farmers are to
receive profitable returns. Oats must be
sown to cope with the rapid spread of take-
all and foot-rot; in our wheat districts. The
right varieties of oats make good hay, and
for the best results stock must receive a
fair amount of artificial feeding throughout
the summer months. In forcing their clients
to plant a fixed area, regardless of the
scientific side of the business, the banks are
making a big mistake.
ONE-CROP FARMERS.
“Mulyan”: Agricultural experts are wisely
advising farmers to practise diversification,
so that when one crop fails or strikes a poor
market they have something else to fall back
on. On big wheat farms fat lambs and pigs
can be included as profitable side-lines. On
other big farms dairying and agriculture go
together. The small farmer on river flats
seldom has enough grazing area for the
breeding of livestock beyond pigs and
poultry, except for his own requirements;
still, he can diversify considerably.
Maize should combine with at least lucerne
(where suitable), oats (for hay), potatoes
and beans. Some farms on the lower part
of the Richmond grow little else than beans.
Lucerne has to be sown only once in four
or five years, and cuts many crops. It pays
the storekeeper while the corn is growing.
Hay, whether lucerne or oats, can be held if
the'market is not favorable. Oats and beans
are good rotation crops, and with rotation
the small farm retains its fertility without
fertilisers much longer than under the one-
crop system. Tomatoes, for early marketing,
are another good side-line. The more strings
a man has to his bow the greater his chance
of pulling through with a profit.
THRIP.
The thrip plague is exceptionally wide-
spread this spring, as might have been
expected after so wet and mild a winter:
frosts were few and mild over most of east-
ern Australia. On every return visit the
plague seems to attack a wider range ot
blooms. This year it will do some of its
worst work among the plum crop: on pre-
sent appearances there will be few prunes
on the Murrumbidgee irrigation area next
harvesting. In that district the insects don’t
seem to be doing much damage to the citrus
crop; but in the county of Cumberland there
are growers who believed at the beginning
of October that a quick 2in. rain was
their only hope, and some damage has been
done also in the Gosford district. No way
has yet been found to clean the blossoms.
Tobacco is being used; but no ordinary
spraying will do much good, and fumigation
is ineffective. More research work will have
to be done on this pest.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Are Romney Marsh, Southdown, Shrop-
shire, English Leicesters or Ryeland sheep
suitable for W.A. coastal country? Are any
of them liable to get “eoasty"? —s763.
There is a tendency for sheep to become
“coasty” on all the coastal areas of W.A..
and they require to be changed to inland
pastures. If the country is damp and
swampy Romney Marsh would probably
prove the best sheep to pasture, on account
of their resistance to foot-rot and fluke. The
Ryeland is not very well, established in W .A.
The general advice given by the W.A. Agri-
cultural Department is to pasture merino
sheep for wool, but for lambs to. use the
British breeds. The line of breeding advo-
cated for the export market is to select the
largest-framed, strongest-constitutioned mer-
ino ewes and mate to the Border Leicester,
Lincoln, English Leicester or Romney
Marsh rams (preference being given to the
Border Leicester). The best of the ewe
half-bred progeny are then selected and
mated to the Southdown, Shropshire or
Dorset Horn rams, all ram progeny, half-
bred and crossbred, being marketed. In
some districts, however, it is not possible
to successfully raise two generations of
lambs, and in these it is better to purchase
good half-bred ewes if export lambs are the
aim.
(1) Where in Sydney can I learn to be-
come a shearing-machine expert? (2)
Length of course and cost? (3) Are posi-
tions found for pupils at the completion of
course? —6112.
(1) and (2) Dalgety and Co., Miller’s
Point, Sydney, conduct three months’ courses
in connection with Wolseley machines in
the first half of each year. The fee is £lO.
Dangar, Gedye and Co., Malloch House.
Young-street, Sydney, have classes for Lister
machines, Mondays to Fridays, during work-
ing hours all the year round, except June,
July and August. The fee is and the
course lasts three weeks. (3) No under-
taking to that effect is given.
(1) I have a 12-year-old draught gelding
whose condition has fatten right away till
lie is a mere useless skeleton. His manure
on discharge shores infestation of numerous
thread-like worms about 2 in. long (white).
Best treatment? (2) A rising four-year-old
draught mare occasionally discharges with
manure a long white worm about B in. long
and pencil thickness; she is in fair condition
and does not seem to be falling away. Cause
and cure? —sBl9.
Both horses should be brought in and fed
generously on oaten chaff and bran for
seven days. They should be starved for 24
hours and drenched with a mixture of 2oz.
oil of turpentine and 14 pints raw linseed
oil. They should be fed on good oaten chaff
and bran and one tablespoon of Fowler’s
solution of arsenic should be mixed with
the food once a day for 60 days. The para-
sites are the common worms peculiar to
horses.
What is the matter with my herd bull?
(Description of symptoms follows.) —5743.
Possibly the animal is affected as a result
of having served a cow affected with vagi-
nitis. He is liable to pass the disease on.
To assist in clearing up the condition the
bull might be syringed twice weekly with a
weak solution of lysol (one teaspoon to a
quart of water).
(1) Can tobacco be grown successfully on
country along the Murrumbidgee, near, say,
Carrathool, by irrigation? (2) What sort
of a living can be made by a practical bush-
man, but not an experienced smallholder, on
O' mixed farm in the Windsor district, run-
ning poultry but no dairy? —s76o.
(1) The only reliable way to determine
whether tobacco can be successfully grown
in the district would be by experiment, say,
with about 50 to 100 plants. In any case,
it would be most inadvisable to attempt to
grow this crop in the district named without
overhead irrigation. (2) Much would de-
pend upon the location of the farm and
the nature of the mixed farming other than
poultry. Generally speaking, the areas in
( Continued on Page 26’.)


m
/
no
f V
s>.
A
M
&
7:
v
ows
.foi belter CALVES ..for better PIGS ..and better Poultry
m
There is no need to pur-
chase expensive calf foods
to rear good calves.
Scald 2oz. Meggitt’s Lin-
seed Meal—rising to 4oz.
—daily. Mix this with the
skim milk.
When the calf will nibble,
allow a concentrate mix-
ture consisting of equal
parts of:
Bran
Crushed Oats
Ground Maize
Meggitt’s Linseed Meal.
When pasture is scant or
dry, allow a shake of clean,
lucerne hay.
Brood sows: The addition
of lib. of Meggitt’s Linseed
Meal per day to the ration
of brood sows before and
after farrowing, will in-
crease both the size of the
lifter and the supply of
milk.
Growing and fattening
pigs: The addition of 2oz.
Meggitt’s Linseed Meal per
day—rising to 4oz. per day
—to the usual ration will
stimulate the rate of gain
up to l£lbs. per day.
V
The inclusion of Meggitt’s
Linseed Meal in the laying
or growing ration
—prevents all forms of
bone trouble
—builds frame and consti-
tution
—stimulates the oviduct
—improves egg quality
—prevents rupture of the
egg vent in pullets
Use 5 p.c. only in the grow-
ing mash and 7 p.c. only in
the laying mash. The cost
is practically nil.
ft mu st be •
MEGGITTS
LINSEED OIL MEAL
Supplies obtainable through:
New South Wales: Meggitt, Limited,
Asbestos House, corner York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all Pastoral Houses,
Produce Merchants and Butter Factories.
Victoria: New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
South Australia: Elder, Smith and Co.,
Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide, and
Branches.
Tasmania: F. W. Heritage and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
Western Australia: Elder, Smith and Co.,
Ltd., St. George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors: Wm. Adams
and Co., Ltd., Perth.
Queensland: All Produce and General
Merchants, Pastoral Houses, and most
Butter Factories.
yMEGoj
WlDu
n
M
$
%
tTr
jend
for
booklet
To MEGGITT LTD.,
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Advisory Dept. B
,lf you would like advice on
a balanced ration send
particulars of pasture and
present ration.
Name
Address


**'” * j
v.,-..
Three important points
Here are three special features
of this smart Abbey Boot. . . .
all of them essential to muscle-
free comfort and maximum
service.
FITTINGS.—Both full and half
sizes are available in each of
three widths .... narrow,
medium and wide. That guaran-
tees made-to-measure comfort.
ARCHED INSTEP.—The upper
is built in a curve over the
instep arch. It’s neater. . . .and
it eliminates tightness.
LEATHER. Only the best that
can be purchased is used for
this exclusive Abbey Boot. It
outwears all ordinary grades.
Order by post if unable to call.
Ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf - - - - 557-
Black Glace Kid - - - - 557-
Black Box Calf 50/-
ABBEY
Estab/ished over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 251
THE PATRIOT
đ
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the Itritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW
ROMANCE,
JUDITH PARIS
77& pages. [Dominions Edition
“Equally full-blooded and picturesque. .. .a
more gracious piece of work than its predecessor,
‘Rogue Herries.’ ” —“Sunday Times.” _
EMPIRE LIBRARY.
New Vol*.
Finch’s Fortune
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
(Recommended by the Book Society.)
This story carries on the chronicles of the
Whiteoak family, begun by Miss de la Roche
in “Jalna” and continued in “Whiteoaks.” It
is mainly concerned with what happens to
Finch, the younger member of the family, to
whom was left the old grandmother’s fortune.
Portrait of a Family
By RICHMAL CROMPTON.
This is the story of the various members of
a middle-class suburban family, vividly and
humorously depicted in its homes. The book
is very life-like, never for a moment dull, and
in places genuinely moving.
Sleeping Echo
A Novel.
By CATHERINE M. VERSCHOYLE.
This is a beautifully written story of a
woman who is deserted by her husband. It is
full of insight into character and motive, and
informed throughout by a noble and charitable
spirit.
The Vicar’s Wife
A Novel.
By CICELY BOAS.
This is a first novel. An eminent critic
says, “It is very well written. The ctises are
very dramatic, and throughout I was eager to
know what would happen next. I have seldom
seen so much thought and knowledge of life in
a book by a young woman.”
Guests of the Nation
Stories by FRANK O’CONNOR.
The stories, which relate to the civil war in
Ireland, are told by a born storyteller, who
writes with brilliance, has a great sense of
character, irony and humor, and great powers of
observation.
Misogyny Over the Week-end
By RONALD McNAIR SCOTT.
This gay novel, by a rising young poet and
critic, depicts the pilgrimage of youth in search
of love and beauty.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
isbiiih. 4
ONARCH
» Cigars
ICRAIGfcAITKEN
Wholesale
Sydney N SW.
ALEMITE
MS
/
Gets In and
Gets Under
Into the very heart of
each bearing and wher-
ever lubrication is vitally
necessary.
Friction is costly in any
motor vehicle. Excessive
friction is avoided by
the use of ALEMITE
Lubricant, forced through the Alemite fittings into
the vital parts by the ALEMITE System of Lubrication
which “cleans as it lubricates.”
Insist on yours cars and lorries being Ci ALEMITED ”
at least every 500 miles.
ALEMITE CORPORATION - Chicago, U. S. At
Cable Address t ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty), Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED ...... 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-9
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
the Windsor district which are suitable for
agricultural purposes are not the best for
poultry. If it is intended to go in for
poultry-raising extensively there would be
little time to spare for other pursuits.
(1) Is Grenfell, N.S.W., a suitable dis-
trict for olives? (2) What is the period of
growth prior to bearing? (3) What cultiva-
tion is necessary, and ivhat is the method of
planting? (4) What is the best kind to
grow for oil purposes? (5) Where can
plants be procured? (6) What acreage
ivould be necessary to make this a paying
proposition? (.7) Would it cost much. to
set up a plant for oil extraction? —0146.
(1) Can’t say without a soil analysis, but
speaking generally the granite soils of the
inland wheat belt are suitable. _ Artificial
watering during dry spells will assist in pro-
ducing regular yields. (2) Seven to ten
years. (3) The trees are planted in July
or August in rows at least 25ft. apart. Pre-
pare the land by deep ploughing a,nd sub-
soiling. The plantation should be ploughed
at least once in the winter, finishing by the
end of July, or, where water for irrigation
is not available, ploughed once in early
autumn and again in spring. During spring
and summer the land between the trees must
be kept free from weeds and the surface kept
loose. (4) Corregiola, Plourer, Rgale,
Boutillan, Ascalano, Hardy’s Mammoth and
Verdale are the best oil varieties. s (5)
Any nurseryman could procure trees or cut-
tings for you. (6) 25 to 50 acres. (7) Chief
items of plant are a crusher, presses, filters
and a suitable building. None, of these items
need be very costly.
What is the area of the largest orchard in
N.8.W.T— 6073. _
According to Agricultural Department
records, ISO acres ; and the largest vineyard
is 350 acres.
(1) Possibilities of fruit-farming in
N.B.W. for a married man with small capi-
tal? (2) Area necessary to make a living?
(3) Price of suitable land in good locality?
(4) Capital required? —s92o.
(1) Satisfactory, for an industrious man.
(2) 20 to 30 acres. (3) Virgin land, £6 to
£l5 per acre; bearing orchard, £5O to £lOO
per acre. (4) £5OO to £lOOO.
When and by whom were the first Granny
Smith apples grown? Is the grower still
alive? —5949.
The apple is called after “Granny,” wife
of Thomas Smith, who had an orchard
near Ryde (N.S.W.). In some gin cases
from' Sydney markets she found some rotten
apples, believed to have been French crabs,
which she tipped out down by a creek. From
one of these a seedling grew and in 1868
bore fruit. Mrs. Smith died many years ago.
Best fertiliser to use for water-melons and
how should it be applied?— -5985.
Superphosphate or basic superphosphate
applied at the rate of 3cwt. per acre. The
fertiliser should be worked into the hills
prior to sowing the seed.
What would it cost to provide equipment,
plant, etc., for 1000 laying hens?— s92B.
Approximately £lOOO, in addition to cost
of land and residence. It would be neces-
sary to have sufficient capital to live for
the two years before a full return could be
expected.
llow to make a grid crossing? —6206.
It is made by excavating a pit 12ft. by
12ft. by 2ft. deep, which is bridged over with
three iOin. by 14in. deep girders supported
at the ends by 12in. by 12in. bed-plates.
On top of the bearers 3in. diameter gal-
vanised pipes are laid spaced Sin. apart on
centres. These are laid at right angles
to the traffic and each bolted to the girders.
In some cases the Surface of the grid rises
from the abutments to the centre.
How to make axle grease and harness oil
from mutton fat? —5954.
Axle grease: lib. mutton-fat, 1 Jib. palm
oil. Melt, mix and heat to 212 deg. F.; then
dissolve 3.070 z. anhydrous sodium carbonate
in 8 fluid oz. water and heat to 212 deg. F.
Pour the soda solution into the mixed fat
and oil, then stir till cold. Leather dressing:
mutton-fat 2J parts, cod-liver oil 1 part, or
neatsfoot oil 1 part. Melt, stir and pour
into a mould. Tallow is more suitable than
fat for either purpose.
A cure for scrub ticks in dogs? —sB7B.
Nine grains of Trypan blue in 2 drachms
of sterile water injected with a hypodermic
syringe in the loose skin behind the shoulder.
Two doses, two days apart, are necessary.
Is there any difference as regards the rights
of persons holding land under a tenancy-in-
common, common-property, or part-owner-
ship deed and a joint-tenancy or joint-pro-
perty deed? —6109.
Among joint tenants there is an entirety
and equality of interest and unity of posses-
sion. On the death of one joint tenant the
estate accrues to the survivor automatically;
tenants in common each possess a distinct
though undivided share, which need not be
equal, and there is not, as in a joint tenancy,
any benefit of survivorship between them.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mirboo North”:" A complaint which is
puzzling Gippsland dairy-farmers is attack-
ing cows. First signs are a brown or red
spot on the end of the teat, and the stream
of milk tends to spray in all directions.
Within a day or two the teat is hard to milk,
the stream gets down to a thread and finally
stops. Here is the cure: Immerse the teat
in an eggeup of iodine for a minute, allow
it to dry and then massage it with cam-
phorated oil. Apply phenyl blister every
second day above the treated teat.
“Beefo” : If you have a bit of horsehair
on the farm, not enough to send to market,
don’t throw it away. Besides being suitable
for pads to wear beneath the saddle and
for stuffing, horsehair is a reinforcement
for cement work. Cut the strands into
short lengths and mix in with tonmost
layers of cement before applying. The hair
will smooth off well and does not interfere
with the surface level.
“T.X.0.” : “Hornby’s” advice against truck-
ing lambs when they are thirsty (B.
30/9/’3l) may be applied to all classes of
stock; but it is equally important not to
give them a drink immediately befoi-e load-
ing. About four hours beforehand let them
have a good fill, and results will be much
more satisfactory. Ask any live-stock
agents how many dead sheep, manure-soiled,
they have pulled out of trucks that have
come fewer than 200 miles, and the mis-
take of feeding and watering just prior to
trucking will be forced home. Cattle also
get sick quickly when trucked with stomachs
full of water, and their droppings destroy
their foothold. For best results, truck ah
stock, especially fats, on comparatively
empty stomachs. Another point in the
■•handling- -of lambs: don’t catch hold of or
lift them by the skin.
“Limpiador”: “Wen’s” arithmetic (!>•
7/10/’3l) needs revision. The class of wool
that would not be worth the freight thereon
would yield only 25 to .30 per cent, of scoured
wool. If the grazier got 3d., freight
were Id. and scouring costs and cartage
amounted to 2d., the clean cost in Sydney
of such wool would be from 13d. to 15d. In
any case, wool cannot hold its own with
kapok as a mattress-filler. It “felts,” and
the finer and shorter it is, the more quickly
and solidly will it felt. The only classes
of wool of any use for this purpose are the
wools of the Down and other coarse breeds
—certainly not the type which is grown
around Moree (N.S.W.).
“Valerin”: “Beady’s method of comput-
ing the number of sheep for trucking (B.
7/10/’3l) might be all right if the sheep
vans were of uniform size. They are not,
and a consignor never knows. what he is
going to get until they are dumped at the
siding. It’s up to the railway heads to
make all vans of a standard size.
“Old ’Uri”: Tell “Bad Australian” (B.
30/9/’3l) that the blue lupin growing 3ft. to
4ft. makes excellent sheep and cattle food
if lopped just below the lowest branches
when seed-pods are beginning to form,
allowed to dry as hay for a few days and
chaffed. Every portion will then be eaten
with relish if given once a day. For the
poultry-yard it ranks next to iucerne. I
know of no stock that will eat the seed.
“Disc Harrow” : Wear an old pair of goggles
or cheap sun-glasses while putting- on the
lime-sulphur spray. No one can see properly
with sulphur blowing into his eyes, and
protection like this is likely to result in a
more efficiently sprayed tree. Mutton-fat
rubbed on hands aiid face will help to get
yourself clean afterwards.
“Amierley” : For the treatment, of mange
I can strongly recommend 0.2 solution of
arsenical cattle dip (Queensland Government
standard), having dipped both dogs and
horses and cured them. Totally immerse
the dog and take care that the solution
comes in contact with the skin. Then give
him a scamper round, and finally a juicy
bone to occupy his attention until his coat
becomes dry. In obstinate cases it may be
necessary to repeat the dipping once a month
over a period.
“Mulgo”; Before harvest, see that your
farm road is level, filling all ruts and hol-
lows. The bumps not only injure produce,
such as potatoes, pumpkins and melons,
but make harder work for Dobbin and
increase the wear and tear of the vehicle.
“Yarri” : For a sore shoulder on a horse
that has to be worked, use an old collar
and either cut a round piece out at the
place that goes over the sore, or remove the
stuffing from that spot, leaving it hollow.
But see that the collar is a perfect fit, and
wash round the sore with warm water be-
fore putting it on. A pad under the collar,
with a hole cut in it, answers the same
purpose. A sore shoulder is generally caused
by a dirty collar, or one that doesn’t fit
properly all round, throwing the heavy work
constantly on one part.
“Pick”: To get the correct mitres —top
and bottom —for shed rafters (round stuff
or sawn), make a full-sized plan of the
intended gable on any flat surface, using-
exact measurements. With double lines, an
inch apart, from the apex perpendicularly
to the base, bisect the triangle. These lines
represent the ridge-board. Then lay an
uncut rafter along one of the diagonals and
cut the mitres by the nearest perpendicular
and the base lines. Use that finished rafter
as a pattern for the others.
“J. Point”: S.-w. Queensland cattlemen
are again experiencing heavy losses caused
by their stock devouring the big green cater-
pillars that infest ironbark trees and fall
to the ground after rain. One station near
Mitchell lost 300 head. Cattle eat the
grubs (and die) because of their salty taste;
this suggests the distribution of salt-lick as
an effective precaution, but on a large sta-
tion it is more easily said than done. There
are experienced men who swear that the
’possum is their best friend in the battle
against the caterpillar, as he devours the
young grubs and generally makes the trees
uncomfortable for them. When ’possums were
plentiful there was no caterpillar problem
worth mentioning ; after every open slaughter
(one has just taken place) serious losses are
reported from a widening zone.
Queensland’s Agricultural Department is
doing good work for intending tobacco-
growers. During the last 12 months 1201 b.
of seed has been imported. It doesn’t sound
much, but loz. will provide enough plants
for five or six acres. And other consign-
ments are on the water. The department
charges 4s. per ounce, supplies bona fide
growers only, and terms are cash with order.
New Guinea planters have been casting
about for fresh methods of filling the tucker-
box. One is the employment of locally-grown
tobacco as “trade” with the natives, the
stuff also forming part of the weekly ration
of native employees. The Administration
has been asked to consent to the change, and
is still considering the request. There can
be no doubt about the local product, for it is
being grown in various parts of the Man-
dated Territory and is of very high quality,
too; and there is plenty more suitable land
for planting, provided an assured demand is
created. At present the Territory imports
£25.000 worth of “trade”, tobacco annually
from America; and villainous stuff it is.
The chief hurdle is the fact that the Adminis-
tration collects 2s. 6d. per pound import duty
and thereby pockets the useful sum of
£15,0(15, which it can hardly be expected to
relinquish with a good grace. However,
there is no reason why the matter should
not be adjusted by an excise duty on locally-
grown tobacco.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies. Ltd. is driv-
ing a brisk trade in Kelpie blowfly traps;
sales for N.S.W. and Vic alone exceed 500 a
day. Traps and wire frames are collapsible,
so they can be sent by post; dead flies keep
the trap always re-baited.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
•Journalist, Sydney, will accept engagements to
lecture on Australian literary subjects.—62os.
Young lady, Vic., wants position as secretary-
companion to lady, elderly couple or invalid. —6228.
Typist, Sydney, wants work to do at home. —6225.
Young lady, Vic., wants position as nursery maid.
—6229.
Violinist (32), wants position in dance orchestra
in North Coast (N.S.W.), district.—6l73.
Tyre-repairer and retreader (30), married, five
years’ executive exp., wants position, Sydney or Bris-
bane. Refs. —6181.
Australian, 12 years’ Eastern exp., returning to
Hongkong, is willing represent manufacturers and
exporters in China.—6lB2.
Young working manager (N.S.W.), thorough
practical knowledge of all stock and equipment, wants
any sort of job on farm or station, anywhere.—62s9.
Young man (24), exp. with mining machinery,
undertake any repairs, seeks position N.S.W. or
Q’land. Refs—626o.
Young man, Sydney, wishes to spend holiday on
farm in quiet district near town. —6220.
. Certificated enginedriver (married), Vic., exp. with
steam, gas and Diesel engines, also as farmhand and
teamster, wants employment of any sort anywhere.
Refs.—6279.
Young man (28), married, wants clerical position
in Sydney.—63o3.
To buy Hinkler medal. —6236.
To hear from anyone who can furnish particulars
regarding the Hart coal-gas generator.—sB9o.
Whereabouts of family of John Edwin Johnson,
formerly of M.L. and at one time at Mildura
(Vic.).—6207.
To hear from relatives of, or persons who were
well acquainted with, the late William Astley
(“Price Warung”).—62l2.
To buy Spielvogel’s “Cocky Farmer,” preferably
cloth-bound.—62 09.
To buy portable gramophone, Sydney, with or
without records.—626s.
To buy Rotha’s “The Film Till Now.” —6305.
To buy book containing full story of the Dreyfus
case.—62Bs.
Information Sought.
(1) What amount is owing to Britain by
American States that have refused to pay
their debts? (2) What would the total
amount to plus compound interest? (3)
Why shouldn't this amount be set off against
Britain’s war debt to the U.S.A.? (4) What
do Americans think about it?— -6249.
(1) Approximately £78,000,000. (2)
About £200,000,000. (3) It cannot be so
debited because the Federal Government of
the U.S.A. has no legal responsibility for
the debts of defaulting States. (4) Can’t
speak for the nation—no one can. Theo-
dore Roosevelt condemned the defaulters and
spoke of their action as a “painful and
shameful page in American history.”
How did the custom of wearing epaulettes
by naval and military officers originate?—
6105.
It is an ornamental derivative of the
epauliere, the steel plate which protected the
shoulder of the armor-clad man-at-arms of
the Middle Ages. It was first used to mark
distinctive grades of rank in France about
the middle of the eighteenth century.
Did the Duke of Buckingham, executed
by Henry VIII., bear the family name of
Stafford or that of Bohun, and on what was
based this duke’s claim to the throne of
England ? —5870.
Edward, third Duke of Buckingham, was
a _ Stafford. The Bohun male line ended
with Humphrey, Earl of Northampton, in
1373. The Buckingham dukedom came into
the Stafford family through the marriage of
Thomas, son of the second Earl of Staf-
ford, to a daughter of the youngest son of
Edward 111. Her mother was Eleanor
Bohun, whose sister, Mary, married Henry,
Earl of Derby, later Henry IY. The execu-
tion of Edward Stafford by Henry VIII. was
not because of a claim to the crown, but
because Stafford opposed Wolsey.
I am changing residence. Can bulbs, on
which the foliage has not withered, be
removed from the flower garden icithout
destroying them? —6l3l.
It's a very risky business. Leave as much
soil as possible adhering, and place them in
boxes of sandy loam. Do not cut away the
foliage until planting-time next year.
Are artificial fertilisers suitable for ger-
beras? If so (a) which arc most suitable?
(b) Method of application? (c) Any alter-
native method of fertilising?, —6lls.
„ («) and (b) The best is superphosphate.
Keep it well away from the centre of the’
plants and mix thoroughly -with the soil, (e)
Cow manure well-broken up. Remove soil at
base of plants and pack it round. Watering
will carry it to the roots.
How to raise tuberous-rooted begonias
from seed? —6142.
Sow the seed in pots of light loam and
sprinkle with a thin layer of finely-sieved
soil; then cover with glass or paper. Place
the pots in pans of tepid water; begonia
seed is too fine to admit of overhead water-
ing. When the seed germinates, lift the
covering gradually to harden the plants. Set
the seedlings out in pots as soon as the
plants are big enough to handle.
(1) Method of preparing and preserving
gumtips and ferns with glycerine? (2) Any
other method? —sB6B.
(1) The formula is: Alum, 100 grammes;
common salt, 25g.; potassium nitrate, 12g.;
potassium carbonate, 60g. Dissolve in
3000 c.c. of boiling water, add 1200 c.c.
glycerine and 300 c.c. methylated spirits. The
plants are soaked in the solution and allowed
to dry. (2) Take one part salicylic acid,
GOO parts methylated spirits. Draw plants
through heated solution and dry between
blotting-paper with pressure.
(1) From wliat countries can the latest
machinery for making aluminium ware _he
obtained? (2) Can such machinery be im-
ported to Australia? (3) What quantity of
aluminium is imported into Australia in
ware, ingots or sheets? (4) Books on pre-
paration and, manufacture? —5918.
(1) Britain, United States, France and
Germany. (2) No restrictions on machinery
for working up aluminium. The production of
the metal from ores is covered by many
patents, and possible difficulties exist in that
connection. (3) Roughly 1000 tons per
annum of ingots, rods and sheets. About
80,0001 b. of ware. (4) “The Metallurgy of
Aluminium and Aluminium Products,” by
Anderson; published by Henry Carey, Baird
and Co., New York. “Aluminium and Its
Alloys,” by C. Grard; published by Con-
stable and Co., London.
There is a proposal to erect near my resi-
dence four magazines, 300 yds. apart, in each
of which is to be stored 40 tons of gelignite.
(1) If one full magazine exploded, is it likely
that the others would explode? (2) Within
what radius would the effect be damaging?
(3) What is the risk of explosion by light-
ning? (4) Is it correct that the force of the
explosion travels towards water? —5710.
(1) No. (2) The safety distance, beyond
which structural damage would not be done,
is about 300yds. when trees intervene.. Light
damage, such as the breaking of windows,
might be done at up to two miles in the direc-
tion in which the explosive wave happened to
travel. (3) Not great. No magazine in
Queensland has yet been, exploded by light-
ning. (4) No. It generally confines itself to
one narrow track, the direction of which
cannot be foretold.
I have been appointed executrix of the will
of a person in Victoria. The estate comprises
houses, cash, bonds and personal property.
What are my duties at death of testator?
—6077.
Principally to take out probate of the will,
draw up an inventory of the deceased’s pro-
perty, real and personal, pay the funeral
expenses and debts, collect also any debts
due to him, then pay the legacies, reducing
them proportionately if there are not suffi-
cient assets to go round. Three months after
probate file an account showing assets and
liabilities, and 15 months after probate file
another account showing how the estate has
been dealt with.
(1) Is Centralia under any jurisdiction
other than the Commonwealth? (2) How
far does the railway go from 8.A.? (3) Is
it possible to carry on any form of agricul-
ture successfully in Centralia? (4) Where
can I get general information about Cen-
tralia ? —5938.
(1) No. Certain laws of South Australia
made prior to December 31, 1910, still apply
in the Territory, but they are enforced by
Territory officials. (2) To Stuart (Alice
Springs). (3) There is no agricultural acti-
vity in the southern portion of the Northern
Territory. This is primarily due to the
uncertain rainfall and lack of permanent
water for irrigation purposes. (4) From
the annual report of the Government Resi-
dent for the year to June 30, 1930, obtainable
from the Home Affairs Dept., Canberra; 6d.
(1) What are the Petit oi enamels? (2)
To what nationality do they belong? —62lB.
(1) Portraits in miniature, made in
enamel by the Petitots, father and son. (2)
The Petitots were French. Petitot, senior,
was taught to make, the enamels by Mayerne,
physician to Charles 1., and first practised
the art at his lodgings in Whitehall. The
son, Jean, also settled in England and did
most of his best enamels there.
How is iron galvanised? Is it an electrical
process? —-6106.
Steel sheets are cleaned in hot acid and
passed through cold diluted acid. They are
then dipped in a pot of molten zinc, which
is covered with some other suitable flux. The
term “galvanised,” which means metal coat-
ing by electrolysis, is wrongly applied.
To what value can an Australian return-
ing to Sydney from U.S.A. bring in per-
sonal belongings, free of duty? —6ol4.
Passengers’ personal effects are admitted
free of duty, irrespective of value. House-
hold goods and furniture which have been
in actual use by such passengers for at least
one year, not exceeding £lOO in value for
each adult passenger (two children may be
reckoned as one adult), are also admitted
free.
(1) What was the duty on galvanised-
iron pipes in October, 1928? (2) Duty at
present ? —5944.
The duties have not been altered since
1928. Water-piping of not more than Sin.
internal diameter, British preferential tariff,
free; general tariff, 10 p.c.; exceeding Sin.
internal diameter, British, 274 p.c.; general
40 p.c. Since July 11, 1931, primage duty
of 10 p.c. and sales tax of 6 p.c. have been
payable.
Did France or Italy default in payments
to its creditors after the Great War?— 6223.
Neither nation “defaulted,” but arrange-
ments for repayment of war debts were
made on very much easier terms than origin-
ally were contracted for. France owed to
Britain £567,700,000 and to the U.S.A.
£695,800,000. The terms of repayment in-
volve, in effect, the writing-off of £415,600,000
of the debt to America and £316,300,000 of
the debt to Britain, computed on a 5 p.c.
basis. Italy’s debts of £381,200,000 to
Britain and £343,300,000 to the U.S.A. were
in the same manner reduced bv £296,900,000
and £275,300,000 respectively.
In the April number of the “National
Geographic Magazine ” it is stated that the
first horses imported into Australia came
from South Africa. Is this truef —6107.
Yes. The first fleet brought from the Cape
of Good Hope one stallion, three mares, one
colt and two fillies. In 1795 33 more were
landed from the Cape, and further importa-
tions were made in 1797 and 1800. In
reporting on the horses in N.S.W. in 1802
Governor King stated that, “being mostly of
the Cape breed, they were not very useful,
and chiefly employed in carting and plough-
ing.” It was found necessary to import
horses from India later in order to neutralise
the poor qualities of the Cape breed.
How much did the N.S.W. Government
advance towards the expenses of the N.S.W.
Church and State Hospitals Appeal, and
what were the actual expenses? How much
money was raised by the appeal? —6o9l.
In December, 1930, a grant of £7500 was
made by the Treasury, to be repaid from the
proceeds of the appeal. Expenses were:
Advertising. £2781 Bs. 3d.; general expenses,
£459 14s. 4d.; printing and stationery, £49
6s. lid.; total, £3290 9s. Od. The appeal
was abandoned; the collections had not
at the close of the financial year been paid
to the Treasury; but the deficit is expected
to be at least £1250.
(1) How to get rid of a peewee, which
flies persistently at its own reflection in
windows? (2) Why docs the bird do this?
—6116.
(1) The erection of a wire frame outside
the window might discourage the bird. (2)
Seeing its reflection in the window excites it.
Ho residents in Australia drawing M.L.
war pensions receive the benefit of exchange?
—5277.
No. As M.L. repays Australia in Aus-
tralian currency for pensions paid on its
behalf, the question of exchange does not arise.
(1) Proper size of a water-polo field?
(2) Depth of water? (3) Number of
players m a team? (4) Where can a rule-
book be obtained, and price? —6l3s.
(1) The distance between the goals must
not be greater than 30 nor less than
19 yards; the width, which must be the
same throughout, must not exceed 20 yards.
(2) Not shallower than 3ft. (3) Seven.
(4) Mick Simmons, Sydney; price, 6d.
The Rotary Club of Toowoomba (Q.) is
investigating the possibility of employing
boys at hand-iccaving (woollen cloths).
What prospects are there of it being a suc-
cess?— 5963.
The establishment of such an industry
calls for considerable capital and experi-
ence, and the demand for the finished pro-
duct is small. What trade there is, is in the
hands of a few skilled workers, who make
a small and precarious living at it. Also',
suitable yarns are not readily procurable.
(1) Is there any Australasian State that
doesn’t subsidise friendly societies? (2) If
so, hoic does the standing of its societies
compare with that of those of N. S. Wales,
which are subsidised? —62so.
(1) Maoriland, for one, doesn’t. (2) A
computation made in 1929 showed that M.L.;
with a population of 1,407,000, had 105,154
members; average capital £37 7s. N. S.
Wales, with a population of 2,460,000, had
247,730 members ; average capital £l5 9s. Bd.
Recipe for black boot polish f—s367.
Shred 4oz. beeswax into 1 pint pure tur-
pentine, and leave it to dissolve. Shred loz.
white Castile soap into 1 gill of boiling
water and stir to dissolve it. While still
warm, mix with the other ingredients, and
add fine lamp-black. Stir well one way
till cold, then pack into pots.
I wish to make papier-mache articles. (1)
What materials are required? (2) How is
it moulded? —6219.
(1) Glue, flour, water, waste paper, pre-
ferably thick and unglazed, plaster of Paris,
paint of various kinds and shellac. (2)
Model the articles required in clay or plas-
ticene, and coat them with shellac to stop
the plaster from sticking to them. Make a
mould of plaster. Dissolve the glue in a
double saucepan and add it to a stiff paste
of flour and water. Tear paper into small
strips about lin. by 3in., more or less, accord-
ing to the size of the article to be moulded.
Apply paste to one side only of this to give
the first coat to the inside of the mould, so
that it will not stick to' the plaster, and
then continue to fill the mould to the re-
quired thickness with a coat of glue and
paste and a coat of paper alternately. Force
the paper well into the mould each time, and
allow to dry between coats. When quite dry
take from mould and paint.
How can I destroy nut grass on a tennis
court, ? —6178.
If it is a hard court, by a dressing of salt
and regular applications of boiling water, or
by a weed-killer. If it is a grass court the
case is probably hopeless. If the nut grass
is not very much in evidence it can partly
be got rid of by removing every particle of
foliage as soon as it shows through.
From what plant does kapok, as supplied
in Sydney, come from? —-6166.
Sydney merchants supply .lava kapok, the
finest grown in the world, produced by the
tropical tree known as the Ceiba pentandra.
(1) How can I make a frame to stretch
canvas on, and (2) how is canvas stretched
ready for painting? (3) Is the canvas
wetted? —6113. *
(1) and (2) A frame or stretcher is made
from four strips of wood, the ends of two of
which are slotted to receive tongues cut on
the other two pieces. Wedges of wood are
inserted in the slots at each corner. The
canvas is tacked to the outer edges or back of
the frame and stretched by driving in the
wedges from the inner side of the frame.
Broad-jawed pliers are helpful in gripping
the canvas margin and pulling it tightly down
over the edge while the tacks are being put
in. (3) No.
(1) The chief points of difference between
German and ordinary measles? (2) Is Ger-
man measles the more dangerous?— 6o72.
(1) In German measles the rash appears
after about the 17th day (as a rule) of infec-
tion. It scarcely lasts more than 72 hours
and hardly stains the skin. The mucous
membrane of the mouth is not inflamed and
no white spots occur in it. Often there is
no fever. A sore swelling of various glands
in the head and neck is frequently present.
Convalescence is very speedy and complica-
tions practically never occur. (2) No.
Brief Answers.
R.G.Iv. : To constitute a limited liability
co. to buy out a duck farm would be a ponderous
and costly business. Why not try a partnership
agreement, in which some understanding could be
expressed with respect to the management being
in the hands of the employee ?... .A. A.: It would be
against all sound sanitary practice.... 11.5. W.: (1)
There is no Ido society in Australia. (2) Sydney
Esperanto Soc., 449 Pitt-street S.S.: (1) Yes.
(2) No, you should secure permission in each
case... .Malex: (1) In the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act no distinction is made between first
and second mortgages. (2) The position remains
unaltered except that the guarantee, as from October
1, covers the reduced rate of interest W.J.H.:
Harrison Ramsay, 52 Clarence-street; Dalgetys, 15
Bent-street—both Sydney J.C.M.: The Bum,etix
pays for all it prints... .H.Q.11.: To be divorced in
Vic. you must be domiciled there for two years and
must then establish at least three years’ wilful deser-
tion without just cause. Also you must not have
gone to that State for the purpose of obtaining the
divorce. Your best course would be to remain in
Q’land E.A.M.: In your case the mortgagee had
commenced action prior to November 26, 1930, so
that you had not the benefit of the Act W.R.C. r
Fee, ss. Application forms from Copyright Office,
Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney.
. ...W.S.J.: Submit your specimen to the Curator,
Technological- Museum, Sydney, who will advise as
to marketing... .T.D.: It was written by Edward
Dyson, and is contained in “The Bulletin Story
Book,” 2s H.R.C.: (1) The Sydney harbor bridge
roadway is higher than that of the Brooklyn bridge.
(2) 35 feet... .P. 8.: Write Lyster Ormsby. Leigh
House, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .P.M.: (1)
The red crystals are garnets. (2) The pointed crystal
is arsenite pyrites... .M.E.; The large old shells are
very hard to clean; young, softer shells are
used in commerce. Take a rasp for removing the
worst scale, etc., and then polish with linseed oil
and emery. Use a stiff brush, and, as the surface
improves, a thick folded cloth V.C.8.: Melt
4oz. white gelatine in half-pint water at gentle heat,
add half-pint glycerine in which 2oz. gum dextrine
has been blended, and stir all together until
thoroughly mixed. Pour into pans to a depth of
Jin C.S.: See Nordmann’s “Einstein and the
Universe” and Eddington’s “Nature of the Physical
World.” It should be possible to borrow both
from the Public Library... .N.MeD.: Coolamatong,
meaning water near a hi 11... .K.R.L.: Write Agri-
culture Department, Melbourne, for “Household
Insect Pests”... .H.F.: Try Director, British
Museum, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.I. .. .P.D.: Box
is a name applied in Australia to 14 varieties of
Eucalyptus and to Bursarii spinosa. The best-known
box-tree is the Buzus sempervirens, of Europe. . . .
R. : Secretary, Railway Department, Sydney,
might be able to state the amouut of wool trucked
from the district... .W.K.M.L.: No F.W.G.: Don't
know of any firm which stocks them. Probably
you could get them made for you by one of the
engineering firms R. 5.8.: Get in touch with David
Moore, editor the “Dog World,” 6 Dalley-street,
Sydney... .W.R.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of
Health, Sydney... .E.F.R.: Staghorns should be tied
to the boards with cord-covered wire. When nailed
they are likely to break the leaves.., .A.N.T.: Write
Canadian Govt. Trade Commissioner, 90 Queen-street,
Melbourne, Vic.... .D.R.: (1) Pieces of old iron pipe
fastened with elbows are suitable. (2) Bougainvilleas
(Magnifica trailli and rosea ) are hardy evergreens
and will bloom about nine months of the year.
When the long cane-growths appear, bend them
bow-fashion and tie firmly. New laterals will rapidly
develop from every eye... .W.H.S.: The sample is
not ambergris, but some animal fat. Write to the
Curator, Sydney Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney, for free copy of “Ambergris and How to
Recognise 1t”... .R.C.S.: Steam-tractors are not
now imported to Q’land, but a newspaper advt. would
probably produce several offers to sell one second-
hand.... S^P.: Personality comprises all that con-
stitutes or pertains to a person... .G.8.P.: (1)
Estimated Australian national income, 1913-14, was
£303,000,000 ; 1929-30, £564,000,000; 1930-31,
£450,000,000. (2) Average wage, 1913-14: adult
males, £2 15s. 7'd.; adult females, £1 7s. sd.
1929-30: adult males, £4 16s. 9d.; adult females,
£2 13s. 7d. (3) Number of wage-earners: 1913-
14, 2,152,000 ; 1929-30, 2,731,000 D.F.S.: Get
in touch with keeper of Stud Book, A.J.C., 6 Bligh-
street, Sydney... .G.S.: Write Palings, 338 George-
street, Sydney... .H.G.S.: No chance of securing
such a position locally. Appointments are made
in England... .R.L.H.: There is no fixed formula,
as relative values continually fluctuate. See the
foreign exchange quotations cabled from London.
. ...J.V.: There is no provision under the
Financial Emergency Act whereby pensions
of dependants of necessitous ex-soldiers can
be increased... .J.D.: Both words mean “a
cleared piece of ground on which a corroboree is
held”... .J.A.8.: If the racquet is a good one
and the strings in fair condition, have it restrung
on its own frame. Otherwise, paint with one
dessertspoon powdered resin dissolved in half-cup
of methylated spirit. Allow the mixture to stand
until the solution is complete. Gut reviver is
procurable from sports stores at Is. a bottle
E.G.E.: (1) Except for its possible bowel action, don’t
know of any help such a mixture would give you.
(2) You would probably have to go to a skin
specialist to have it done. The possibility of success
depends on the character of the lesion. . . .K.C.: (1)
Yes. (2) Depends on your physical condition....
E..T.8.: (1) Boil in water containing a liberal
quantity of washing soda, and bleach in the sun.
(2) When dean, immerse in a strong solution of
any good boiling dye, and keep it there until the
desired tint is obtained. Try a small piece first,
as coral texture varies. (3) N 0... .M.M.N.: Your
statement does not disclose any valid grounds on
which, after this lapse of time, the will could be
upset... .M.E.S.: You might sue; but see a solicitor.
. ...P.M.G.: From Herman Haege, Ltd., 379 Kent-
street, or Alexander Moir and Co., 99 Clarence-street
—both Sydney G.D.M.D.: Write Director, Walter
and Eliza Hall Research Institute, Melbourne Hos-
pital, or Dean, Faculty of Medicine, Sydney Uni.
S.V.F.: Experts do not advise a master car-
buretter on the Whippet Four. As regards the Zenith
S. model (American type), the following size is
recommended: 19 choke with a D 1177 main jet and
a DlOl5 compensating jet. Bennett and Wood, Sydney,
can supply jets... .A.E.8.: A camping ground on the
Upper Nepean may be reached by taking the main
southern road to Barellan, the Bringelly-road to the
right for two miles, then the Cobbity-road and
across the Nepean Bridge, where there is a suitable
camping ground on the right of the main road.
Communicate with the Secretary, N.R.M.A., 30 Gros-
venor-street, Sydney, who can supply a list of suitable
camping grounds with particulars regarding access.
. ...E.H.8.: Write State Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet Spuds:
Never heard of it. If you mean potato starch, that
calls for very large-scale production J.D.A.: So
far as we can trace, no salvage has ever been obtained
from the General Grant C.H.L.: Quotations for
machinery are obtainable from Thos. Robinson and
Son, 190 Clarence-street, Sydney (Many other#
mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Jim Huntley, Resident
Magistrate at Aikoroa, Papua, return-
ing to his post after sick leave ,
has for a fellow-passenger Marian
Durrant, whom he had known as a
small child. She had keen brought up
“down south,” and is now paying a
surprise visit to her father. Another
voyager is Freddie Chisholm, going to
Huntley’s division as assistant. Hunt-
ley, who has fallen in love with the
girl, is alarmed. Always Charlie
Durrant had put his daughter off
coming to Aikoroa, where he, too, lived
and had his plantation (Nataroa).
The R.M. is secretly relieved when,
arriving at Baramata, he finds that the
Maipua is laid up, and that Marian
cannot go on to Nataroa for ten days
at least. He arranges for her to stay
with Marchmont, another R.M., and his
wife. While Huntley is at the port a
man named Calvert, whom he dislikes,
tries to get, an interview with Marian;
but Huntley repulses him. In Aikoroa,
meantime, the natives are getting out-
of hand. Huntley, with Chisholm,
arrives and takes over. Accompanied
by Sergeant Gibara, Huntley warns
the natives of Aikoroa of his return
in “twelve sleeps” to collect their tax-
money. Going on to Nataroa with a
letter for her father from Marian, he
finds Calvert has Charlie Durrant
stupidly drunlc. Huntley clears the
dilapidated house of Calvert and his
woman, Saroni; orders Durrani’s
woman to her village, then confronts
the sorcerer, Maragi of the One Eye.
CHAPTER VIII ( Continued).
MARAGI intercepted Huntley’s cool
glance and he drew back his betel-
stained lips in a soundless laugh.
His sightless eye stood out in his head
like a ghastly white marble; but the
other was a glinting, evil, inhuman pool
of malignity. Suddenly Huntley had a
creepy feeling, an unpleasant feeling. The
sorcerer seemed to be holding him by the
power of his single eye. He could have
sworn that the floor was rising and falling
under his feet; that the atmosphere was
becoming murkier, the room noticeably
darker; then, with a supreme effort, he
regained control of his mental faculties.
The fellow was uncanny.
“There will be a new gaol at the station
very soon,” he remarked. “And who knows,
Maragi, it may happen that some day I
shall find witnesses with the courage to
testify against you in open court.” His
voice became brittle, menacing. “Get to
hell out of this, you filthy beast!”
Maragi chuckled. He eyed Huntley
speculatively, appraisingly; his expression
changed, the chuckle became a burst of
jeering, cackling laughter, and he sidled out
of the room.
Gibara’s brown face expressed unbounded
relief. “There remains one who is known
as Korkiskru,” he said. Roughly he thrust
the other man forward. He was middle-
aged and full of body, and his eyes were
heavy, stupid from the effects of his betel-
nut debauch.
“Corkscrew, I know,” Huntley declared.
“So? It is then a holiday at Nataroa; and
you. Mis’ Durrant’s 1 boss-boy, take a rest?”
The man laughed sheepishly. “Sali bin
have I’il bit sleep.”
“Mr. Durrant, you mean.”
“True, Taubada.” Corkscrew hastily
agreed. “Mis’ Dullanti, sah. He bin”
Huntley’s hand reached out. He gripped
Corkscrew firmly by the ear. The man’s
face registered pained surprise.
“To work, my friend,” Huntley ordered.
“And with quickness, lest the sergeant
should assist you with the point of his
bayonet.”
Corkscrew wriggled with dismay as Hunt-
ley led him forth and gently propelled him
down the back steps.
“And that. Sergeant.” he said, “is that.”
A pause followed. Huntley was thinking
hard. A mosquito whined shrilly round his
ear; in the garden a cockatoo screeched.
“Sergeant!” Huntley called at length.
“Sah!”
“Follow Maragi of the One Eye. Tell
me where he goes.”
Swiftly and silently Gibara departed on
his errand. In a few minutes he was back.
“Maragi bin go ’lojig Lotus, sah,” he re-
ported.
Huntley’s brows drew up. “And why
should Maragi go aboard the Lotus, Ser-
geant?”
“Because, sah,” Gibara promptly answered,
“Maragi of the One Eye and Mis’ Calvert
he two-fella good friend.” Huntley nodded
thoughtfully. “Moreover, Taubada.” Gibara
dropped into the vernacular. “Saroni is
daughter to Maragi of the One Eye.”
“The devil she is!” Huntley breathed
reflectively. He scratched his chin. “It is
in my mind, Sergeant, that I have been
too long away from Aikoroa.”
Sergeant Gibara’s grunt was a fervent
acquiescence.
CHAPTER IX.
For a good hour Huntley sat with his
troubled thoughts on the verandah of
Charlie Durrant’s tumbledown bungalow.
He thought of the drunken hulk who lay
breathing noisily in the adjacent room; of
the iron hand of circumstance that had
brought him so low. Nataroa Charlie men
called him—his very name had been for-
gotten in a derisive nickname of the beach.
It was the solitude, the loneliness of New
Guinea that had driven Durrant in upon
himself; that had got him down at last;
that had thrust him into ways that uncom-
prehending moralists deplore and old hands
condone or explain by a shrug of the
shoulders. Native women and the solitary,
secret bottle; a gradual, insidious sapping
of the will, the abandonment of first one
and then another of the little things with-
out which men are as the beasts that perish.
New Guinea had beaten Charlie Durrant,
as she has beaten so many other good
fellows.
A vision of Marian floated before the eyes
of Huntley’s soul. He heard her gay little
laugh, so carefree and lighthearted; he saw
her smiling eyes—wide, abstracted—looking
out into a world that was very beautiful
and full of delights. Huntley’s heart con-
tracted painfully and his eyes were sick.
Then Marian, too, faded into a dim back-
ground and he was wandering down the
shadowed lanes of memory. How many
fellows had he known, fellows whose lives
were rich with promise and of whose friend-
ship he had been proud, had lightly
shouldered the white man’s burden, had
wilted under the load and had fallen by the
wayside? How many sorrowful brethren of
the beaches were even as Charlie Durrant
—living native, thinking native, seeking sur-
cease in the inevitable anodyne, awaiting
the inevitable end? Impatiently, angrily,
Huntley shook his head. What was bred
in the bone came out in the flesh. Even
niggers had their code. All else were
drivelling sentimentalism! This was no
time to blither over a mischief that was
done. There was a job of work awaiting
him, a task to be accomplished. It was for
him to test the true measure of Nataroa
Charlie’s manhood; to lift him—if neces-
sary, to kick him—out of the pit of infamy
in which he had been wallowing; to sweat
out of him the poison of his own distilling
that was corroding him, eating him up.
The swooning perfume of flowers rose in
overpowering waves from the garden;
pigeons were winging their way homeward
over the face of the lagoon and the shadows
of the palms were beginning to lengthen.
Huntley stirred restlessly as he turned
and re-turned his problem over in his
mind. He told himself that in coming to
Nataroa he had responded only to the call
of an ancient friendship; that it had always
been his plan—some day, when time and
circumstance permitted—to take hold of
the soiled and besotted caricature of a white
man who was Charlie Durrant, and jerk
him back to sanity; that Marian’s unex-
pected advent had merely stimulated, but
had not inspired a long-cherished wish to
resume relations with her father.
But Huntley was lying—and he knew he
was lying. He knew, too, that he was afraid
to be honest with himself; afraid to admit
that he yearned only to recreate an image
for Marian Durrant, to give it back to her
with its tarnished gold made bright, its
lacquer burnished, its varnish new and
gleaming. He knew —and he knew now that
he had always known—that when Marian
had brushed . his cheek with her careless,
caressing lips, she had sent him floundering
through uncharted dangerous seas.
He held himself tense as Durrant’s heavy
breathing died down. There was a grunt,
a groan, and the floor shook under the
impact of feet swung on to the rotting
boards.
Huntley tiptoed to the bedroom door. He
found Durrant sitting on the edge of the
stretcher, head in hands and a rather sulky
expression in his red-rimmed eyes. He gave
a start as Huntley’s shadow fell athwart
the stretcher. He lifted his head and gave
Huntley a twisted grin.
“Good morning, Huntley,” he called with
a cheerfulness that was a little unconvinc-
ing, “or good afternoon or good evening, as
the case may be. Business, I imagine? Or,
perhaps, a belated social visit, my dear
fellow?”
He dragged himself to his feet. He was
as tall as Huntley, though now his once
straight, figure was stooped and his shoul-
ders sagged. There was something in the
set of his head on his shoulders, in the tilt
of his nose, the line of his mouth and the
color of his now lack-lustre eyes—-an emo-
tion-stirring resemblance to Marian that
made Huntley catch his breath.
Huntley went back to his seat. Durrant
lurched to the door, where he swayed un-
steadily for an instant and then slumped
into a chair opposite Huntley. He wrinkled
his nose quizzically. His eyes held a
quality of bland insolence.
“Really, you know, I have an intense
curiosity to know what brings you here.
But, may I say, my dear fellow, that it is
a happiness, a delight to welcome you to
my poor abode?” He inclined his head in
mock courtliness. Then: “What the devil
brings you to Nataroa? If you’re inspect-
ing my nigger laborers you’ll find them
loafing about the place somewhere —as
usual.”
“This is just a friendly visit, Durrant.”
“How delightful!” There was a hint of
mockery in Durrant’s voice. “Believe me,
my dear Huntley, I am not insensible of
the honor you do me. Indeed, no! May I
—ah—offer you a little refreshment?”
“No, thanks, Durrant. I”
“A little early for you, perhaps. I re-
member your amusingly abstemious habits,
you see. You’ll forgive me, though, I feel
sure, if I help myself to a—ah—Jimmy
Woodser? I feel that I sorely need a
bracer. Pardon me.”
Then he called: “Katuna!”
There was no answer. Durrant seemed
faintly surprised. “Dear me!” he remarked.
He half rose and sat down again.
“Katuna!”
There was pity in Huntley’s face. “You
may save your breath, Durrant. Katuna is
not here. I’ve sent her home.”
Durrant’s puffed and blotchy face went
blank. A vein on his forehead began slowly
to swell; but his voice was still urbane.
“I am not,” he admitted, “quite sober.
You have noticed it, perhaps. No? How
good of you! Do you mind if I ask you
to repeat”
“I’ve sent your woman packing. She is
back at Aikoroa by now.”
Durrant shook his head dazedly. Utter
bewilderment showed on his face. He
reached for the bottle that stood by
Huntley’s elbow, but Huntley pushed it
aside. Durrant’s hands were twitching, his
limbs quivered. He swallowed hard.
“One moment, pray!” he exclaimed, but.
with no abatement of his cordiality. “Let
me get this straight. Let me understand
you, I beg. You are joking, and the point
of your jest has, perhaps, eluded me? Or”
—his courtly voice thickened, became
strained, harsh; he began to stutter and
the veins on his forehead knotted and
turned purple—“this is another exhibition
of your damned officiousness, you insolent
young pup!”
He stood up swaying, gasping and chok-
ing in a whirlwind of fury. Huntley was
conscious of an intolerant discomfort, but
he hardened his heart and regarded Marian’s
raging father without the quiver of an eye-
lid. He was determined to stagger Durrant,
to send his senses reeling, to shock him into
sanity. He made no effort to check the old
man’s raving. His hand tightened on the
bottle and he flung it over the verandah
rail. There was a crash of splintering glass
and the fumes of hard liquor were wafted
back to them.
“You—you !” Durrant spluttered;
then he flamed out at Huntley, venomously,
obscenely, a volley of unprintable oaths.
Sweat broke out on his forehead and
streamed into his eyes; there was a smear
of froth on his lips, his limbs jerked, his
hands clenched and relaxed while the air
echoed to the foulness that streamed from
his lips like a black and deadly torrent. The
courtly old gentleman had become a beast.
Pity that was almost physical pain held
Huntley dumb. He did not stir. He strove
to compose his features into an expression
of complete detachment.
Then the pent-up surges of Durrant’s
furious anger spent themselves. He choked
and spluttered, then sat back in his' chair
with a crash.
“I have- a letter for you, Charlie.” Hunt-
ley’s voice was calmly persuasive. He took
Marian’s letter from his pocket and placed
it, address upward, in front of Durrant.
A drizzle of profanity issued from Dur-
rant’s writhing lips; his hands clutched the
table edge while his body rocked to and
fro.
“That’s enough, Charlie!” Huntley
admonished him. “A little of that sort of
thing goes a deuce of a long way. Have
done, man! I’ve brought you a letter.”
Something in Huntley’s voice seemed to
tap Durrant’s sodden mind. His eyes found
the letter; they opened wide, became
dilated. He stared at the handwriting on
the envelope almost with terror.
Noiselessly Huntley slipped out of his
seat. He crept to the rail and, turning his
back, stared long and earnestly—at nothing.
For a long minute he stood there un-
consciously clenching and unclenching his
hands. Only the crisp rustling of paper and
the song of the lagoon waters broke the
silence. There was a gasping, choking sound,
terrible in its revelation of stark fear.
Huntley turned round.
Nataroa Charlie’s head was buried in his
bent arms. He was sobbing, shivering,
whimpering. A feeling of acute discomfort
descended upon Huntley. Very gently he
laid a hand upon the older man’s shoulder,
saying nothing. The sounds of Durrant’s
agony died down. He lifted his head and
Huntley was aware of a pair of tragic eyes
—hunted, hopeless—staring into his. Hunt-
ley shivered. He was looking at a man’s
naked soul; he was seeing a vision of the
bitterness of defeat, of forgotten desires, of
a dreary, wasted life.
“I take it all back, Huntley—Jim,” Dur-
rant muttered. His voice cleared and
strengthened; a kind of pitiful dignity came
into his face. “I beg your pardon, my boy.
I—l God in Heaven—what—what!”
And he slumped back in his chair, a figure
of stark, hopeless misery. “She can’t come
here, Huntley, not Marian, not my little
girl into this—this sink.” His voice began
to lift in a strange, hysterical note of fear.
“Why didn’t you—you tell her? God! I
must stop her, somehow, anyhow!”
“It’s too late to talk of stopping her, old
friend.”
“She thinks I’m—what does she know of
the shiftless, worthless, drunken, half-nigger,
Nataroa Charlie! God Almighty!”
He stopped. He uttered one short, bitter
laugh, and looked around the unlovely ver-
andah. Then, taking a grip on himself, he
twisted his features into a ghastly cari-
cature of a mocking smile.
“It is the first step that does the damage,
my dear fellow. It is fatal—absolutely
fatal—in this perfectly damnable country to
make the slightest concession to one’s—ah
—lower nature. You, as a bright ornament
of the civil service”
“Cut it out, Charlie!” The assumption
of a cynical dignity that sat so ill upon
the shoulders of the bedraggled grotesque-
ness of the man stirred Huntley at last to
anger.
“Pray do not interrupt. There is, I
admit, a wide gulf between the higher
branches of the civil service and”
“Damn you, Durrant!” Huntley broke in
passionately. “Hold your tongue! Maid
Marian is at Baramata. She’ll be here in
a week—ten days. What the hell are we
going to do about it?”
Durrant was suddenly dumb. The ravages
of the years stood out upon his face—
forlorn, pitiable, unspeakable. In his hag-
gard eyes was a wistfulness that struck
Huntley afresh, it so terrifyingly resembled
the expression he had often seen dwelling
in Marian’s eyes.
“What are we going to do?” Durrant’s
voice was old now, flat and dead and hope-
less. “Thanks, Jim. I understand you.
You’re a good fellow. You always were;
but no man on God’s earth can do anything
—now.”
“Come home with me, Charlie. There’s
a room for you at the Residency—books,
friends, everything.”
“You mean to be kind, Jim. I thank
you, mv boy; but there’s nothing you can
do.”
“Damn it, Charlie! We can’t let the
little lady down!”
For answer, Nataroa Charlie dropped his
contorted face upon his arms and wept.
They were making their Way slowly
through the scented dusk in the direction
of the Government station. Huntley had
his arm within Durrant’s. Sergeant Gibara,
his face impassive, was a respectful ten
paces in the rear.
For an hour or more Huntley had pleaded
with Charlie Durrant, urged him, cajoled
him, threatened him, only to be met by a
vacant shake of the head and an inaudible
mumbling. Reaction had possessed Dur-
rant utterly. He was powerless to face the
altered circumstances of his life, unwilling
to discuss them, afraid even to think of
them. Then, as his bemused brain began
slowly to clear, and cogent thought filtered
in through the haze in which he was dwell-
ing, a dim perception of the impending
crisis, a vague realisation of what Marian’s
coming meant, awakened a ferment in his
brain, made his body to heave, his shoulders
to shake, his soul to sink down into a pit
of black despair.
Nevertheless it was impulse he obeyed
rather than reason when, at last, he yielded
to Huntley’s repeated urgings, suffered him-
self to be led to the bath-house, and
arrayed in khaki raiment that was almost
clean, and, shepherded by Huntley on one
side and Gibara on the other, to be half
pushed, half coaxed out into the golden
radiance of the ebbing day.
An unwonted quietude brooded over
Aikoroa village as they passed down the
garbage-littered street. The women were
bent over the cooking pots, stirring the
contents, adding fuel to the fires, and the
looks they directed at Huntley were side-
long, apprehensive. The men slunk along
in the shadows of the huts towards the
long-house, pointing at Huntley, muttering
among themselves, and, borne on the fresh-
ening currents of the land breeze came the
faint, charnel-house odor that had revolted
Huntley earlier in the day.
Lolling against the door post of the long-
house was Maragi of the One Eye. There
was a sardonic grin upon his countenance.
Furtive he looked, wolfish, in his paint and
feathers, his dog’s-teeth chaplets and the
rattling bone regalia of his trade.
Sergeant Gibara spat uneasily. He eyed
Maragi with disfavor.
“Bymeby, sah, that black cow mak’m big
fella trouble, I t’ink so.”
Huntley bestowed an indifferent glance
upon the sorcerer. Maragi complacently
returned stare for stare. His face cracked
in a deliberate sneer and he strolled slowly
into the long-house, whence came the first
faint throbbing of the drums.
But Jim Huntley, R.M., was not think-
ing of Maragi of the One Eye; nor of the
Aikoroa villagers and their brazen flouting


m
l 4
i
0*
m
I|B%
■I
iilii
l
a
w
mm
/ \
m IK %
mm
-i
■* -1 iUiS <*<*ol
I
■
m.
Mi
m
An&y.
;;;; v:; ; :; : :;;:v:v: : : ; :; ; :;.:;:;;; ; ::_::_:
:• •:•: : :
a*
«1P > * , j„
3*2?
s§>:
PI
SSSSS*
m
Mm
m
y
mmmmm
i
mm^mm wmwm
d
| FORD CARS
| TRUCKS AND
| TRACTORS ARE
| BRITISH EMPIRE
{ PRODUCTS
The Ford Sports Phaeton
Quality •« • far above the price* Long, continuous
service emphasizes the enduring quality of the Ford car and its economy of operation and upkeep.
The passing months and years bring a growing pride in its appearance and in the substantial worth
that has been built into it. From every standpoint you know you have made a far-seeing, satis-
factory purchase. For Ford quality is quality that endures .... Ford Prices range from £2lB to
£315, f.o.b. nearest Ford Works, Sales Tax Extra ... Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
K.C. 50
of his commands, nor of the thousand and
one duties that clamored for attention.
It was extraordinary indeed to what in-
significance these things had receded in
Huntley’s scheme of life.
His hand closed tightly on Durrant’s arm
while he guided the old man’s stumbling
feet over the uneven coral path. Dismay
possessed Huntley, disgust, infinite pity,
and an appalling sense of helplessness. What
was he to do? What could he do with the
pitiable lame duck who was Marian’s
daddy? How was the grip of circumstance
which held him in thrall to be loosened?
A wave of tenderness and sympathy swept
over Huntley; an increasing urgency to
preserve the peace, the happiness, the seem-
liness of Marian’s life absorbed him. Hunt-
ley sighed. Before him, always before him,
adding torment to a mind already sick with
foreboding, was Marian in all her young
radiance, taking him by the throat like a
stab of pain.
Silent, self-absorbed, they came to the
residency. The setting sun emblazoned its
glory over land and sea. Its last rays
flamed through billowing clouds; the lagoon
waters were liquid sapphire flamboyantly
streaked with gold and crimson fading into
vermilion.
Patrol-officer Chisholm in fresh laundered
drill awaited them at the head of the steps.
He greeted Huntley with a ready smile and
stared hard at Durrant.
“Mr. Durrant—Mr. Chisholm.” Huntley
performed the introduction perfunctorily.
If Freddie Chisholm was surprised he
successfully concealed it.
“How do you do, sir?” he said in a
voice casual and friendly, with yet a hint
of deference in it.
Charlie Durrant’s hand was wet and limp.
A little giggling, high-pitched laugh came
from his sagging lips. His face was tensed
and strained, his eyes were hungry, avid.
There was a cane table on the verandah.
Durrant’s eyes w r ere glued to it, to the
decanter, the siphon and the nest of
tumblers that covered its top.
CHAPTER X.
Chisholm had felt an inward consterna-
tion when Huntley introduced him to
Marian Durrant’s father; nor did the events
of the succeeding week allay his perturba-
tion. Rather did they intensify it. For
the first day or two he could make neither
head nor tail of what was going on at the
residency; but that it was something ugly,
something sinister, he could not doubt.
Huntley- had the air of being keyed up;
awaiting, as it were, something momentarily
impending. Durrant’s moods alternated
between an engaging whimsicality, which
irresistibly charmed Chisholm, and a black
depression punctuated with fits of almost
ungovernable rage which aroused in him
merely a desire to shake the old man.
Normally, Freddie Chisholm was a lad
of generous impulses, even-tempered, easy-
going. He liked to think that, aided by
Marian Durrant, he had penetrated the
slightly arrogant, rather brusque -exterior
Huntley showed to the world; that he had
discerned and had appreciated something of
the fineness of the man’s character; that, in
short, their friendship was already firmly
established. But the Huntley Marian Dur-
rant had made known to him, the Huntley he
had discovered for himself aboard the mail
steamer, at Baramata and on the journey
to Aikoroa, was, it now seemed to Chis-
holm, a wholly imaginary person, quite dif-
ferent from the dour, unsociable Resident
Magistrate of the Aikoroa Division. It was
not, Chisholm assured himself, that he had
not tried to keep alive the friendship that
had grown so rapidly and so spontaneously.
He had tried—tried hard. But always Hunt-
ley had rebuffed him; not rudely, not even
unfeelingly, choosing rather to adopt an
attitude of frigid reticence and reserve from
which he had dropped back, keenly disap-
pointed and more than a little resentful.
Moreover, it w y as apparent to Chisholm
that Huntley was deliberately neglecting
his official duties. He had thought that the
magistrate, after his long absence from the
division, would have plunged immediately
into official business, that its multifarious
details would have engrossed him, that he
would have brought all his energies to bear
in disposing of the “legacies” little Board-
man’s incompetence had bequeathed to him.
And that an ugly situation had arisen in
Aikoroa Bay, Sergeant Gibara had made
abundantly clear. Chisholm was frankly
nonplussed. For Huntley rarely so much
as set foot inside the station office. He
received Chisholm’s daily reports and
Gibara’s detailed bulletins with a lack of
interest he was at no pains to conceal.
Aggressive courage, unflagging zeal, keen-
ness and executive ability of an uncommon
order were the dominating characteristics of
the man according to popular legend. It
was all very puzzling to Chisholm.
His uneasiness grew upon him. Once he
threw out a cautious feeler to Sergeant
Gibara, but that grim old warrior had
merely looked blank and attested to the
belief that “Mis’ Huntley savee too much,
sah; he savee altogether everyt’ing, sah.”
It was hero-worship gone mad, Chisholm
sourly reflected, gloomily aware that he
had merited, if he had not appreciated, the
sergeant’s gently-administered rebuke.
Huntley and Durrant went on long tramps
together along the eye-aching white beach
and into the jungle. Always they returned
sweat-soaked, bored, fretful and obviously
loathing the sight of each other. At the
residency they occupied adjoining rooms
with a, communicating door, and, long into
the night, Chisholm, lying awake on the
verandah, could hear the rise and fall of
their voices. In Huntley’s voice was a sort
of restless helplessness; in Durrant’s a
feverish irascibility. Their midnight con-
ferences seemed interminable; often they
degenerated into arguments, sometimes into
bitter quarrels, and always, to Chisholm,
they were a maddening exasperation.
Thus the first week dragged wearily by.
At the end of it Chisholm was befogged,
floundering, utterly bewildered. He had an
eerie sense of being entangled in a web of
circumstances pregnant with the menace of
evil, but which might, on the other hand,
be of no particular significance at all. It
might be yet another manifestation of the
“fashion b’long New Guinea” of which he
had heard so much and had understood so
little. The two older men began to get on
his nerves. It became an effort to restrain
his rapidly growing irritation. He began
to avoid their company whenever he could
do so without being flagrantly rude, to
immerse himself in the cut-and-dried
routine of running the station. There was,
it seemed to Freddie Chisholm, nothing
else for him to do.
Moreover, he had other grounds for re-
vising his first-formed impressions of Hunt-
ley; grounds trivial in themselves, yet
fraught with meaning to Chisholm. Chis-
holm was a reasonable lover of good cheer
and the good-fellowship it engenders. He
held firmly to the belief that a “spot” or
two between evening bath and dinner were
as good for a man’s body as they were for
his soul. He conceded that, in Papua, it
might be the height of good form for a
host to serve out his guests drinks in care-
fully measured tots as though he were dis-
pensing doses of medicine. It might also
be the Papuan tradition to lock up the
bottle afterwards and retain the key. Never-
theless, they were habits that annoyed
Freddie Chisholm intensely.
Then understanding came to Chisholm.
It came with the force of a blow, stagger-
ing him, leaving him gasping for breath.
One night Du mint retired early leaving
Huntley listlessly turning over the tattered
pages of an ancient magazine by the light
of a hurricane lantern. Chisholm, bored,
irritated, thoroughly fed-up, gruffly excused
himself, got into his pyjamas and fell asleep
almost immediately.
Hours later he awakened with a jerk. It
was a tense, breathless night—moonless,
starless—black as the Pit, clammy as the
interior of a hot-house, so silent that the
ticking of the alarm-clock cut through the
stillness like hammer strokes on an anvil.
Then, from somewhere within the bunga-
low, came again the sound that had aroused
him. Chisholm felt the blood congealing in
his veins. Thin, piercing, like the cry of a
fretful child, the whimper of an animal in
pain; then a screech—shrill, enraged—a flood
of imprecations and a growling, a strangling
like a dog worrying a bone, yet horribly,
incredibly human. Chisholm sat bolt up-
right. Somewhere a door banged, shaking
the house; there was a tinkle of breaking
glass, a swift scurrv of footsteps.
Then Huntley’s voice raised itself. “God
damn you, Durrant, for the swine you are!”
Chisholm was out of his stretcher like a
shot. He charged blindly round the veran-
dah to Durrant’s room. On the threshold
he halted, caught his breath and fell back,
appalled. The air was thick, nauseating,
charged with a pungent odor. With vision
that slowly cleared he discerned, dimly, the
blurred outlines of two. pale shapes writh-
ing and twisting on the floor. One was
grimly silent. The other was yelping like
a stricken cur, spitting out things that
seared Chisholm’s brain. He groped for
and found the hurricane lantern, struck a
match and a flickering radiance filled the
room.
He heard Huntley swear softly as Dur-
rant’s teeth locked on his wrist; saw swift
anger hardening his eyes. The next moment
Durrant was flat on his back, helplessly
squirming, straining in a merciless grip.
“Get the medicine chest, there’s a good
fellow,” Huntley said. His voice was cool,
business-like. “You’ll find it on the shelf in
my room. There’s a hypodermic in the top
compartment. Handle it carefully—it’s
charged. Hurry up, son.”
Chisholm darted through the communi-
cating door, cannoned into and overturned
a chair, and fumbled in the darkness for the
box. He returned to Durrant’s room clasp-
ing the box in his arms. Huntley was sit-
ting on Durrant’s chest. The old man’s
legs threshed the air, but his arms were
pinioned to his sides by the pressure of
Huntley’s knees. He was screaming shrilly
between chattering teeth; there was foam on
his lips, blood on his cheek and in his eyes
was the glare of madness.
Huntley took the syringe Chisholm
handed to him, held it expertly and awaited
his opportunity. It came. With a single
quick movement he ripped the sleeve of
Durrant’s pyjama coat from wrist to elbow,
pinched the skin between finger and thumb
and deftly inserted the needle. Durrant’s
mouth drooped, his body jerked spasmodi-
cally and a shuddering breath whistled
through his chattering teeth. Then coma,
swift, merciful, enfolded him.
“Whew!” Huntley gasped. He stood up
and Chisholm saw that his face was bedewed
with sweat. Chisholm stared stupidly, first
at Huntley and then at the prone uncon-
scious figure of Charlie Durrant.
“Why—why—what’s up?” he stammered.
A light broke in on him. “It’s some sort
of fit, of course; a kind of seizure, by Jove!”
Huntley brusquely cut him short.
{To be continued next week.)
Portrait of a Lady.
She sighed for jewels, while a kingfisher flew
(Brilliant with a turquoise no jewel ever
knew j
Above a trembling ruby, whose fires of wild
red
She saw as a rose in a trim garden bed.
She sighed for jewels, while every twig was
bright
With crystals of rain that splintered into
light,
While every tree —a casket where emeralds
were stored—
Poured upon the morning air its wet and
glittering hoard.
She sighed for jewels, while the sky was
alight
With wild rose and topaz, jade and milk-
white. .. .
While the sky was an opal above a jewelled
land,
Still she sighed for dead stones to wear upon
her hand!
MAORILAND.
UNA CURRIE.


Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY 31st October
CUP DAY 3rd November
OAKS DAY sth November
STEEPLECHASE DAY . . 7th November
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £26,000
£7OOO ADDED TO~MELBOURNE CUP
and GOLD CUP OF £2OO.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
II
QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOB ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOR 3 TEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities anil principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. 14in.
Each. Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 52/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
Qualeast (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: AS HUSBANDS GO
(Commencing Saturday).
I. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS
THEATRE ROYAL: FLORODORA,
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Cast.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Vigne, favorite at 5 to 2, lamentably failed
liis Caulfield Cup backers, but Denis Boy
(.12 to 1) appropriated the big prize for
N. S. Wales. Young Barden, who trains
Vigne, would not entertain the thought of
his being beaten. 11. F. Evans, owner of
the Chrysippus gelding, had been rather dis-
appointed with his Caulfield Stakes showing
a week before, but regained confidence. Vigne
bore the brand registered by an ancestor of
his owner, and i’f it had been carried to vic-
tory in the Cup there would have been joy
supreme in the house of Evans. Only a few
yards distant from Vigne’s stall was that of
Denis Boy, whose veteran trainer, Frank
McGrath, advised inquiring friends not to
allow the Irish-bred stallion to go out un-
backed. No better judge of form than
McGrath is to' be found on the turf and his
ti(i was taken, with happy results.
The Cup race had surprising features. It
looked a good thing for Vigne when he took
up a nice position behind Royal Barb and
the Adelaide Derby hero, Opera King, as
they raced past the judge for the first time.
The favorite, to all appcrauces, was going
well within himself, and, given rein along
the railway side, he shot past the leaders and
opened up a three lengths’ gap. Royal Barb
and Opera King dropped out of the picture.
Rounding the home turn, however, it became
manifest that Vigne was not to have matters
all his own way. First Acre, Denis Boy,
Spearman and Prince Dayton closed on him,
and at the distance Pratt was obliged to
draw the whip. Punishment was of iio
avail, and Vigne faded into sixth position.
Denis Boy scored brilliantly by a long neck
from Prince Dayton, who was ridden out
with characteristic vigor by 52-year-old Bob
Lewis. Old First Acre (33 to I) earned
(bird money, a length and a quarter farther
away,
Even more remarkable than the downfall
of Vigne was the inability of Shadow King
Geot/Iv/e got it on approval.".
6>ept: // la.wc& it back •, its got mo
HANDLE"
QeRT'/NO HANDLE ! Vs/HATT do VOO
meain 1"
&EPT'/Well, its the ficjsi Bath-chmr
Ivk seen vviithout one'!
and Dark Man to emerge from the rear of
the field until the race was practically over.
These candidates had been heavily supported.
Dark Man was at a longer price on the
course than he had been on the previous
night, but Eric Connolly’s belief in his
ability to win was unabated. Shadow King
warmed up a little earlier than “Con’s”
neddy, but the latter came home better. The
fast pace set in the first half of the journey
dislocated many plans. It may have ruined
the chance of Vigne to be taken to the front
so far from the winning-post. R. Wallace,
the owner of Denis Boy, made money mining
in Westralia. He lives in Ireland, and
has never seen the horse race, having shipped
him out to Sydney when 18 months old.
Since then Denis Boy has been continuously
in the hands of McGrath.
Frank Dempsey, who was first jockey to
•Tack Holt’s stable in the days of Eurythmic.
revealed much of his former prowess by
piloting two winners. He led off by taking
the Burwood Handicap, for three-year-olds,
on Stephen (5 to 1)'. trained by Lou Robert-
son for members of a Melbourne firm of
timber-merchants. Stephen, who is by Top
Gallant from the imported mare Ardesia,
shared favoritism with Viol d’Amour, a
rival Victoria Derby candidate, from whom
he received 51b. Viol d’Amour had a rather
rough passage, and finished fifth only. On
the previous Saturday he was third, with
Stephen nowhere, in the Guineas. Whether
Stephen will prove superior to Viol d’Amour
over the Dei’by distance remains to be seen,
but neither has much chance of extending
Ammon Ra. Weeks ago Ned O’Dwyer
withdrew Viol d’Amour from the Cups, but
Robertson has left Stephen in the two-miler
at Flemington.
The other winner ridden by Dempsey was
Baccha Sakao (5 to 1) in the Windsor
Handicap. This Eastern Monarch gelding
(owned in Adelaide! suffered a narrow
defeat in the Toorak Handicap on the open-
ing day, and is running true to form. He
accounted for Einga after a fine tussle. Jack
llolt captured the race for juvenile fillies
with Dutcliie (14 to 1), whom he acquired
at the last yearling sales on behalf of Mrs.
L. R. Buxton for OOgns. Coonartha (9 to
2), a mean-looking Manfred gelding, landed
the Gwyn Nursery, for which Cimarron, in
the same stable as Stephen and by the same
sire, started favorite. Cimarron was backed
like a certainty. He will atone before long.
Another youngster worth following is Recu-
perator (by Verbius), a filly that should
have been placed at least in the Mona Nur-
sery.
>H ?! * »
Denis Boy was not nominated for the Mel-
bourne Cup, but Vigne, Shadow King. First
Acre, Dark Man, Prince Dayton, Opera
King and Royal Barb are engaged in that
event. Several of these horses also figure
among the first acceptors for the Moonee
Valley Cup, set down for decision next Satur-
day. Last year Shadow King won it. It
is intended that Vigne shall be sent to the
post at “the Valley.” He will have 181 b.
more than his Caulfield Cup impost, and
meets Dark Man on 91b. worse terms.
Weights favor Shadow King to the extent of
41b. as compared with Vigne; the benefit
in the case of Prince Dayton is 71b. There
will be half a furlong less ground to cover.
Believing tnat Vigne was not handled to
advantage at Caulfield, The Bulletin scribe
is selecting him to win. Selections:—
Mia Mia Hurdle: Ocean Bound; next,
Van to.
Cup: Vigne 1, Dark Man 2, Prince
Dayton 3,
Dundonald Handicap : Harry Gavin; next,
Wise Force.
?! ?! t- *
Burracootboo lias been very unlucky this
spring. Obviously there is not much between
him and Autopay at six furlongs to a mile;
but, whereas Autopay won three races in
succession, including the Epsom, the brother
to Goshawk has run three seconds, heavily
backed on each occasion. He was favorite,
at threes, for the Flying Handicap at the
City Tatt.’s meeting on Saturday, and his
backers were on good terms with themselves
when he came into the straight alongside
Tom Pinch (6 to 1), who generally dies
away at Randwick. Tom, however, struggled
on, vigorously persuaded by Coutts and
advantaged by the inside position, and Hold-
fast (4 to 1) came fast on the outside of
Burracootboo, who likes plenty of room and
didn’t get it. A most exciting finish ended
in favor of Tom Pinch by a neck, Holdfast
being the same margin behind Burracootboo.
Fourth was Gesture, another unlucky one,
and the clock showed lmin. lOjsec.—the
fastest six of the season.
The owner of Spearman was warranted
in sending him to Melbourne for the Caul-
field Cup, but he probably now wishes he
had reserved his horse for City Tatt.’s
Handicap. With Sst. 81b. in a slow mile
and a quarter (it took 2min. 6sec.) Spear-
man, barring accidents, would have been
a good thing. Ho is certainly lib. better than
John Buchan (10 to 1), who cut down the
leaders, Potent and Papatu, at the distance
and won by a length from Reasonable, who
came fast from the ruck, Potent being a fair
third. John Buchan was ridden by Darby
Munro, who has grown a bigger boy than
his elder brother Jimmy; Jimmy was on
Loquacious, whose poor showing was a dis-
appointment to trainer Kelso after her excel-
lent second to Veilmond in the Sydney Han-
dicap. Lightning March, the favorite, also
ran badly. He is a frail-looking little
chestnut, and has perhaps had more racing
these last few weeks than he can stand.
Pike’s horsemanship has transformed Nut
Cup, who used to misbehave at the barrier
always, and stay there as often as not.
Carrying lOst. 51b. (the minimum was 7st.
91b.), Nut Cup made a game attempt to win
the Club Welter. He was leading a hundred
yards from home, but weight told in favor
of King’s Arms (6 to l),who was receiving
291 b. and is back in his best form; the
favorite, Killarney, cut Nut Cup out of
second place with a late run.
# * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Tom Pinch; next,
Calendo or Chemosh.
Canterbury Handicap: Flinders or Sun-
lover.
Highweight Handicap : Calendo or Chem-
osh ; next, Frontier.
Campsic Handicap: Ring Boy; next, Lord
Kennaquhair.
* * ?: ?:
“Thormanby”: The Cesarewitch, the 24-
mile race at Newmarket which is one of
the last big plums of the English racing
season, was won by Noble Star, a 16-to-l
chance carrying 8.12. Strephon had been
entered for this event and was allotted 8.0,
the top weight, Singapore, carrying 9.10,
but whether the Australian started is not
mentioned in the cabled story of the race.
?: * $ *
“C. 8.”: In spreading their beneficent
influence throughout the globe, Automatic
Totalisators of Australia have had to con-
sider local atmosphere. The set mentioned
in a recent Bulletin as having been shipped
from Sydney to Miami, Florida, is almost
an exact replica of the new and ornate
gadget at Flemington, but it has its differ-
ences, due to the irreconcilable idiosyncrasies
of the American punter. The Yank likes
it this way—win, place, show and combina-
tion. Win requires no explanation. Place
is 1,2, 3. Show is 1, 2. Combination covers
all of them. The immense number of neces-
sary adjustments in the hundreds of
machines was successfully made by the
Australian engineers. Another problem con-
fronted George Julius when he came to instal-
ling the tote at Longchamps. He was asked
to make it an economic proposition with
1800 operators. He pointed out that 700
were ample, but the Frenchmen said that
would never satisfy the Paris tote union.
So two able-bodied men are placed at each
selling window where one girl functions
efficiently in Australia. It was also impos-
sible to get the Frenchmen to make the bets
higher than five francs. This is only ten-
pence in present values, but the Gallic
punter still thinks in terms of the pre-war
currency.
* * * *
“Claremont”: Walter Sibbritt, once well
known as a jockey in Westralia and later
in India, heads the list of winning jockeys
for France, having ridden his hundredth
winner for the season last week. Some years
ago Frank Bullock himself very success-
ful in Europe as a rider and trainer, per-
suaded Sibbritt to go where the easy money
and plenty of it was lying about, and the
Groper horseman has never had any l-eason
to regret his change of residence.
* # ij!
“Old Q.”: An unusual case in connection
with racing has cropped up in the Queens-
land courts. Some time ago Arthur Whit-
tingham, a wealthy Queensland pastoralist
who had been prominent in the racing world,
died bequeathing £2OOO in trust to the
Queensland Turf Club for the foundation of
a club for jockeys, apprentices and stable
hands. The Q.T.C. jibbed at the task, and
the trustees of the will have asked the Court
for directions as to whether the gift has
failed and falls into the residue of the estate.
As the Q.T.C. has no objection to another
trustee being appointed, there is a possi-
bility of the boys getting their club after all.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wally Hancock and Russ Critcher were
to have fought for Australian welterweight
honors at Leichhardt last Friday, but Han-
cock (10.7|) weighed half a pound over the
limit, so the championship was not at stake.
Critcher (10.4-J) crowded his way to close
quarters immediately hostilities began and
started Hancock on the retreat. Hancock
fought a rearguard action all the way, aud
as this is not boxing Critcher won a well-
received decision.
# * * *
“Bendigo”: In spite of his eccentricities,
Jack Sharkey managed to score a points’ win
over the lumbering Italian Camera in their
mill at Brooklyn. All the same, his tem-
perament nearly lost the American the fight,
for on one occasion when Camera fell with-
out a blow, Sharkey rightly claimed the deci-
sion, and in his excitement tried to leave the
ring. Camera was floored several times
and was out on his pins in the last round.
❖ * * *
“Bendigo’’: There is actually talk of
matching American Micky Walker against
the vast Camera. Walker is only sft Bin.
in height, and weighs in trim to-day list.
111 b. He is as fast as a flea on a hot shovel,
and has a devastating punch in each hand.
The question as to whether he can wallop
Camera into ineffectiveness is arguable. It
is not out of the question, however. Fitz-
simmons beat men as big as Camera, and Joe
Choynski, next to Fitz the greatest fighter at
his weight the ring ever saw, never scaled
more than list. 81b. He had to fight as a
heavy to get any money at all. Yet he drew
with Sharkey and Jeffries, and beat Johnson,
whom he laid cold in three rounds. Walker
must be pretty nearly as good, but he has
some hard work ahead of him if he decides
to go in for elephant-taming.
>i< * sic *
“Inside Hipe”: One of the greatest
travesties of “sport” is probably professional
wrestling. Those well acquainted with its
ramifications were in hope that the popu-
larity of the ramp had died down again, but.
apparently, the goats continue to be born at
the usual rate. The American National
Boxing Commission, which very naturally
controls wrestling—wrestling includes more
punching and showmanship than anything
else —has decided that the title of world’s
champion wrestler must be awarded to some-
one. Accordingly, Australia’s old cobber
“Strangler” Lewis is to meet Zybysco for the
heavyweight title at the end of this month.
Percy Pavey, of Victoria, won the N.S.W.
King’s Prize—his third, for he had been
successful in Queensland and Victoria. Only
29, he has been shooting eight years.
sit * :lt ?=
“Claremount”: The Westralian cricket
eleven which will give the Springboks their
first gallop at Perth in a three-day match
beginning on Thursday is a youthful side,
half a dozen names familiar in the Westra-
lian team against Gilligan’s men two years
ago having dropped out, including fast-bowler
Ilalcombc and batsman Horrocks, who is
supposed to be in England. Arthur Richard-
son is also an absentee, as is skipper Harold
Rowe. New men are Bromley. Curtin, Doig,
Long, McKenzie, Newman and Head, who is
twelfth man.
“Pest”: The visiting South African
cricketers are leaving little to chai\ce, even
the autograph fiend having been warned off
before the party sighted Australia’s shores.
A special notification has been wirelessed
from the team that the people with the books
and fountain-pens will waste their breath in
vain if they ask for signatures on the
grounds or in the streets. Only books sent
into the hotels at which the team stops will
be dealt with.. It is, presumably, the inten-
tion of the visitors to hire some assiduous
varlct to do the distasteful job for them in
seclusion.
* * * *
“Shell” : The negotiations between George
Towns and Ted Phelps, the professional
sculling champion of the world, have broken
down. Towns offered fairly liberal terms to
induce the Englishman to come to Aus-
tralia to row a local oarsman for his title,
but Phelps is of the opinion that the £3OO
to be paid as expenses was not enough. The
probability is that Phelps will now meet the
ex-Australian Major Goodsell somewhere
in California about the time of the Olym-
piad. Goodsell, who held the championship
until he was deprived of it by young Barry,
whom Phelps in his turn beat, is nowadays
a naturalised Yank.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swan”: Westralian oarsmen, who have
lifted the King’s Cup four times since they
first entered for it, 10 years ago, are confi-
dent of winning next year’s race in Victoria,
where they scored their second win in 192.".
P. J. Ryan is again sole selector and coach,
and will shortly commence to get his crew
together and start training. The W.A.
Rowing Association has ordered a new eight
from a Melbourne firm, and is in the happy
position of already having almost enough
cash in hand to send the crew away.


Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ ",Snapshots of
Sport” Session, Station 2UW, Every
Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
<*■¥£
.4'
The ghost of Izaak Walton is abroad, and
zealous Trout Anglers are looking forward to
the opening of the Season. Mick Simmons
again meet it with a range of Rods, Reels
and Accessories that outrival anything of the
kind in Australia to-day.
TROUT
Season!
Opens Ist November
SPECIAL, TROUT
RODS
No. 2 MS. PERFECTION SPLIT CANE
TROUT ROD, 104 ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, encased agate butt and end rings, closely
whipped, in bag £7/15/-
No. 3 M.S. SPLIT CANE TROUT ROD,
104 ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, agate butt
and end rings, serrated suction joints, closely
whipped, in bag £5/15/-
No. 4 SPLIT CANE ROD, 01ft., 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, metal reel seat, snake rings.
Price 19/6
M.S. C KEEN HEART TROUT SPINNING
ROD, 104 ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, double
brazed, snake rings, in bag £2/15/-
SPECIAL TROUT
REELS
HARDY’S FAMOUS “PERFECT” REEL, con-
tracted, made of Aluminium, with large barrel
for quick winding. Regulating check. Runs
on ball bearings, almost frictionless. Easily
and quickly taken to pieces for cleaning pur-
poses
Sizes 3sin. 3|in.
Prices 80/- 85/-
No. 1 METAL TROUT REEL, well made, with
patent guard. Size 3]in T7/0
No. 3 IMPROVED “IXL” TROUT REEL,
removable check and large drum for quick
winding. Front brake. Size, 34in 50/-
No. 68-METAL CHECK REELS, bronzed,
with pillar backs and handle on revolving
plate. Sizes 2in. 3in.
Prices 7/6 13/3
SPECIAL TROUT
LINES
“SURE CATCH” ENAMELLED BRAIDED
SILK LINES.—A good, smooth, waterproof
line, non-crackable, non-kinkable, made ex-
pressly for Mick Simmons, Ltd.
25 50 100 yds.
Size E—Test 181 b 5/- 10/- 20/-
Size G —Test 141 b 4/6 9/- 18/-
“SALINE” ENAMELLED SILK LINES.—
Higliest-quality silk with transparent finish;
tough and elastic, and is proof against all
alkalines and salines. Put up in 25 coils (four
connected).
Sizes LI (4 E D
Test, lb 14 18 32 39
25 yards 5/6 6/6 9/3 li/-
50 yards 11/- 13/- 18/6 22/-
100 yards 22/- 26/- 37/- 44/-
trout flies
An extensive range of all famous patterns.
In sizes 0,8, 10, hook.
Prices: Wet, 3/6 doz. Dry, 4/- doz.
- TROUT SPINNERS
“Austral” Spinners, with spinning head. Made
expressly for the taking of Trout or Perch in
Australian waters.
Sizes Trout. Perch.
Length overall lfin. 2jin.
Price 1/3 1/6
GUT CASTS
“Red Loop” Tapered Casts. 74ft.
Fine. Medium. Heavy.
Nos 4886 4883 4881
Taper IX to 4X 4 to 2X 1 to IX
Price 2/6 2/6 2/6
Also, an Unrivalled Range of Landing Nets,
Fishing Bags, etc.
(Carriage Extra on Fishing Tackle.)
All Letters ta Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney
Mick Simmons Itd
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia
The Ins and Outs
“Aunt Sally”: “Wanted, a bowler,” is a
sign that should be hung out all over Aus-
tralia these days. Outside the veterans
Grimmett and Oxenham there are no first-
class trundlers—that is, on all wickets and
under all conditions—though there are plenty
who are able to do well enough in any
company when things are suiting the bowler.
We have definitely no fast bowler worth
considering. The most promising in sight is
the Queensland abo. Gilbert, and he is
never likely to reach the top. Wall, w r ho
was dashed fortunate to get a trip with the
last Australian eleven, is even less likely
to do big things, and the same may be said
of the Victorian Alexander. The only
medium-pace men worth considering are so
long in the tooth as to require the services
of a veterinary surgeon. In young Hunt,
of N.S.W., there is a possible slow-medium
left-hander, but he is not yet in the class
of Ferris or Saunders. Generally, the out-
look may be described as gloomy. I will go
further and say blanky gloomy.
* * s>: *
“Der Jong”: It is 20 years since we last
saw the ’Bolts on this side under ’keeper
Sherwell and with poor Aubrey Faulkner
as their all-round star. On that occasion
the visitors brought over three googly ex-
perts, Vogler, Schwarz and Faulkner
himself. This time they haven’t got one
of the breed in their ranks, having come, pre-
sumably, to the very sensible conclusion that
the expensive coves are not worth while.
Fast to medium right-handers are Bell, Mor-
kell and Brown, while Quinn and Vincent
are mollyhanders. Slow stuff will be supplied
by the Kimberley Greek Balaskas, McMillan
and Mitchell. The batting, led by veteran
Ilerby Taylor, is strong down to the last
man. “Aunt Sally” Cameron is reckoned
among the world’s best half-dozen, while the
fielding all round is exceptional.
i|- j|; jJ.
“Der Jong”: An unusual incident in
connection with the visit of the South
African cricketers concerns Steyn, who was
selected when Seidle dropped out. He is a
student at Pretoria University and is due
for his B.A. degree at the end of the year.
The University has sportingly given him
leave to make the trip, and he will sit for
his exam, in Australia. One cannot recall a
precedent, though Norman Druce, the Cam-
bridge-Surrey batsman, who was in Aus-
tralia with A. E. Stoddart in 1897-98. was
supposed to be preparing for holy orders,
a rumor which the barrackcrs of those days
made the most of.
“Fitzcra.v” : “Stork” Hendry, N.S.W., Aus-
tralian and Victorian all-rounder, has been
chosen by the Victorian cricket heads to take
charge of the Cabbage Garden Colts this
season. The Colts play in the district
competition, which means that “Stork” will
be lost‘to Richmond in the pennant games,
in which he has done the Tigers good ser-
vice. He got the job over the heads of many
other applicants, and will draw a fee of £75
for the season’s services. The previous
coach and captain of the youngsters was 11.
Brereton, the Vic. C. A. secretary.
* * * *
“Third Man”: The Australian Board of
Control is getting in early with preparations
for the visit of an English Eleven at the
end of next year, the visitors being expected
in Australia about the middle of November.
Pore old Sydney, which was deprived of a Test
match against Chapman’s side and another
against the West Indians, will this time have
two matches, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adel-
aide taking one apiece. Three selectors have
been appointed to pick the Australian sides
against South Africa instead of the unwieldy
quintette that has officiated for two seasons":
E. A. Dwyer, captain of Mosman (N.S.W.),
and a State selector; W. Johnson, four years
a Victorian selector ; and Dr. Dolling, a South
Australian selector and a member of the
committee which picked the' team for the last
Australian tour of England.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let”: It seems likely that the tight-
drawn chalk-line dividing the tennis ama-
teur from the professional will be rubbed
out soon by the institution of “open” tourna-
ments in which the mail who plays for
money and the man who is supposed to play
for love of the game may meet without
contaminating one another. The French
journal “l’Auto,” which is the recognised
authority on sport in France, says that a
scheme for a world’s open tourney is now
being drafted by the International Tennis
Federation. The idea is that the annual
tourney will be carried out in rotation in
the chief Davis Cup countries, including
Australia.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: How is it that tennis and
posing go invariably hand in hand? A
cricket or football player who indulged in
the antics which the public is accustomed
to expect from the stars of the pat-ball
sport would be hooted out of the game. Take
the case of the American George Lott play-
ing at Wimbledon. His particular stunt is to
change his racquet after making a shot
which does not satisfy him. In one game
at Wimbledon he did this half a dozen times,
the racquets having been previously planted.
Wimbledon got a bit tired when he at last
produced one from the ice-box which stands
by the side of the centre court, and recorded
the only “raspberry” ever heard in those
sacred precincts.
* * # *
W. J. Daish, who died untimely at 42
in Melbourne the other day, was one of
the outstanding figures Pf the lawn-tennis
world of the Cabbage Garden. A fine
player himself in his early years, it was as
a tennis official and administrator that he
made his mark. The reorganisation of the
Melbourne Cricket Club’s tennis subsidiary,
which practically meant building up control
of the game for the V.L.T.A., to which the
M.C.C. later handed over, was entirely his
work. In later times he was hardly less
prominent in connection with the Australian
body governing the game.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Tamn”: H. L. Williams, the Victorian
phenomenon, is leaving school to com-
mence work in the sporting department of
a Melbourne store. If he played cricket he
would now be in line to receive an offer
from Lancashire, but as he is a golfer it is
likely that the offer will come from the
U.S.A.
❖
“No. 1”: Odette Lefebvre is certainly a
champion, if only in the making. Pessi-
mists say she didn’t take to the game early
enough in life to become a world-beater, but
the old Scots theory that the gowfer who
starts after early childhood is doomed to
mediocrity has been considerably knocked
about in the past 20 years or so. The only
Australian who ever won a British amateur
championship, namely, W. J. Travis, never
handled a club till he was in his late
twenties.
* * * *
“Shirley”: The Maoriland golferettes
fought out their annual championship last
week, the honor finally going to one Miss
Gaisford. The new champion does not
appear in any local record of performances,
but seeing that she beat Olive Kay, who
has played much big golf with success in
Australia and won the national mixed four-
somes with Sloan Morpeth in 11)30, by 5
and 4, the lass must be pretty useful. Fit-
tingly enough, the final was a duel between
the North and South Islands, the champion
hailing from Mar ton and the runner-up from
Otago on the other side of Cook Strait.
* * *
“Muirfield” : This is a day of sacred tenets
upset and heresies substituted in lieu thereof.
The most devastating that the writer has
encountered of late is that advanced by
Cotton, who declares that the “cartwheel”
swing, with the clubhead kept as far as
possible, in the actual direction of the
hole, is all wrong. He .says the
correct method is to bring the clubhead
down inside the imaginary line and
then hit across it “to a point where mid-
off stands at cricket.” Of course the stroke
a.s described is not a new one. Nearly
every duffer in the game can play it, just as
he does the one which goes, to paraphrase
Cotton, “to a point where short leg stands
at cricket,” but I have never known any of
the exponents of either figuring on the plus
mark in their club handicaps.
* * =i= *
“Kenso”: The A.I.F. and golf continue
to become better acquainted as they both
grow older. Many of the Sydney golf
clubs now stage annual contests for ex-
soldier members, and the latest of these to
fall into line is the Lakes Club, which is
out with an announcement of an open A.I.F.
foursome on November 12. All members of
affiliated. golf clubs and professionals who
served with the Allied forces arc invited to
throw their hats into the ring, the entry fee
being ss. per pair. Entries close on Novem-
ber 6, and profits will go to A.I.F. charities.
This will be the first foursome played exclu-
sively by A.I.F, men.
* * * :!=
“Chiverton”: Toowoomba, that pleasant
town on the Darling Downs which prides
itself on.possessing one of the finest country
golf courses in Australia, is sadly in need
of sand. The red clayey loam which has
made the countryside famous agriculturally
dries like a brick in hot weather, and the
consequent cracks in the fairways are respon-
sible for many lost golf balls and kindred
inconveniences. The club has lately been
considering the question of importing sand
from the coast to temper the hardness of
the fairways. As far as the bunkers are
concerned, the difficulty has been overcome
by the substitution of sawdust and wood
chips for sand.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe”: The attack on the world’s
motor speed record by Norman Smith in the
car designed by Don Darkness is to take
place at a date early in December which is
to be determined by tide and weather con-
ditions. The Maorilanders are leaving no
stone unturned to ensure Smith’s success.
Some 17 miles of the Ninety-mile Beach
has been surveyed, and flags showing the
course will be planted every 30 yards. Hark-
ness has designed a gear ratio which calls
for an eight-mile run to reach top speed, and
the actual timing of the measured mile will
be taken between the 8-mile and 9-mile
pegs, this leaving a further 8 miles in which
to pull the car up for the return run with-
out undue strain on the tyres. The beach
has been wired for the timing apparatus,
which will record the speed by the electric-
light beam system. Generally the prepara-
tions are more elaborate than any previously
obtaining at Daytona or elsewhere, and if
Smith doesn’t hoist new figures there will
be a lot of disappointment in Maoriland.
***:!:
“Whizz”: The annual “500” on the Brook-
lands track in England was responsible for
the hoisting of the fastest time per hour yet
established in a long-distance track race.
The driver was J. L. Dunfee, and in charge
of a Dunlop-sliod Bentley he averaged over
118 m.p.h. Another English car was second
with a speed of 112 m.p.h., while one of
the “pram” class came third with 92 m.p.h.
The winner bettered the previous best for
the race by six miles per hour.
* * * *
“Formula”: Australian motorists are
likely to get a good advertisement by reason
of the three Riley motor-cars from this
country which are listed for the Monte
Carlo Rally, entries for which close on
December 24. A party of six set out some
time ago to drive these cars from Melbourne
to Darwin, and thence, with the aid of sea
transport, through Asia to Europe. The
original plan of the tourists was to start the
drive for the Monte Carlo test from Athens
or Salonika. They have been advised that
better jumping-off places for them might be
Reggio, in Southern Italy, 950 miles from
Monte Carlo, and Gibraltar, which is 1440
miles away.
* * * *
“Hoppitt”: In these days when the aver-
age Australian leaps wildly for the foot-
path whenever unkind fate asks him to cross
a street, it is comforting to read that there
are some drivers of motor-cars so humani-
tarian as to hold contests to decide how
slowly they can drive their infernal con-
traptions. As one who has suffered much
mentally at least, from motorists, I desire to
congratulate Mr. Otto Jones, of Sydney
who last week, in a contest at Bondi estab-
lished a new record by driving a 6-c’vlinder
car over 220 yards in 6min. 26 3-ssec a
rate of 1.16 m.p.b. At the same time, I have
an inkling of what delayed Mr. Jones on his
spin along the Bondi promenade.
*}• '!• V
“Sprocket”: During the Warrnambool-
Melbourne race a party motoring behind the
cyclists came on one mud-bespattered youth
70 miles from the finish considering his bike,
one handle-bar of which had snapped. He
was offered a ride into Melbourne but
refused. He had come all the way from
Queensland to ride in the race and meant at
least to win the bronze medallion given
those finishing the course within 10+ hours.
While he talked, he was faking up his
handlebar with a bit of wood from n near-by
tree, and, that done, he remounted and went
on his way. He got his medallion. Good
luck to him!
Miscellaneous
“Booroodabin”: Indignation has been
aroused among Queensland bowlers by asser-
tions made by a temperance advocate during
a deputation to the State Home Secretary.
This person stated that at the Bribie Island
Bowling Club £lOO was spent in alcohol for
every £1 spent on bowls. Also he averred
that the Commercial Travellers’ B. C. in
Townsville secured its license by putting
down one rink in its back yard on which no
man living had ever seen bowls played. As
far as Bribie Island, which is at the north
end of Moreton Bay, is concerned, I can
confute the calumny. I spent many a week-
end there on sailing-fishing excursions and
never saw a drink pass during a game of
bowls—perhaps because there was then no
howls played there. As regards Townsville,
another place to which I have been habitu-
ated, I laugh to scorn the story of the club
which resorted to the subterfuge of bowls as
a means of obtaining drink. In the Towns-
ville of my day no excuse for drinking was
needed, and by all accounts the place hasn’t
changed much since.
ijj SjC "!•
“Blade”: Curious that the Victorians,
though formidable as any when it comes to
eight-oar crews, seem to have developed an
inferiority complex in the matter of the
fours. One of the star turns of the Ilenley-
on-Yarfa regatta is the race for the Stew-
ards’ Cup, yet Vic. fours have won only
three of the last 14 races, N. S. Wales,
Maoriland and Queensland crews catching
the judge’s eye with monotonous regularity.
The situation is the more interesting in view
of the very large number of extra-metropoli-
tan rowing clubs which Victoria can boast.
With the majority' of these, the four is far
oftener seen in action than the eight.
❖ ❖ H* :|c
“Swan”: Westralians are looking forward
to the appearance at Henley-on-Yarra of
K. Langley, who recently won the Groper-
land amateur sculling championship. Lang-
ley, who is well under lOst. when in his
shell, is a finished oarsman, and this year
has taken a hand in winning all the Wcst;-
ralian rowing championships, the sculls,
pairs, fours and eights. ’Hie Westralian
first caught the limelight by the race he gave
Bobby Pearce in the Australian champion
sculls of 1929, when he made the redoubt-
able Robert row one of the hardest races of
liis career. George Rogers, doyen of West-
ralian rowing and a mighty coach, has had
much to do with the young fellow’s success.
* * * *
“Clydesdale”: Those folk who, for some
reason best known to themselves, promote
agricultural shows in Australia might vary
the monotony of the proceedings by intro-
ducing horse-pulling competitions, which are
now becoming popular at British .shows. The
idea was borrowed from America; the
nags concerned are asked to pull against a
mechanical device which registers the maxi-
mum pull. The world’s record for a pair of
horses is 35751 b.. pulled by a pair of Belgian
nags weighing 35901 b. In bygone days it was
not unusual for owners of rival bullock- or
horse-teams to hack their fancies against
each other. The practice then was to hitch
the teams back to back on a single pulling
bar and urge each to do its best. The exhi-
bitions were a great incentive to betting and
blasphemy.
X * X X
“Blue Chalk”: The second match in Syd-
ney between Walter .Lindrum and Tom
Newman for the Southern Cross Cup ended
in a win for the Englishman, who scored
11,769 points to Lindrum’s 11,223. Nearing
time Lindrum was within 750 points of his
opponent, but a fine finishing run of 365
by the visitor landed him home. A break
of 1330 in 51 minutes was Lindrum’s most
important contribution to the game. At
present the Australian leads by 65 in the
points score for the cup. Matches to be
played to decide the winner of the pot
include two in Westralia, where Lindrum
first learned the game. Both players leave
for a tour of Britain on November 9.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Australian Soccer
team, which has been touring the Nether-
lands Indies, came back the other day with
a good record. Of the 13 games played they
won nine, lost three and drew one, scoring
37 goals to 16. Their most interesting match
was against a United Services team from
Singapore, which was played at Surabaya.
The opposition was drawn from the Glou-
cester regiment, the Royal Air Force and
the East Indies naval squadron, and the
tourists won, 4to 2. The game has gone
ahead a lot since the last Australian tour in
those parts in 1928. and it is likely that next
season or later may see a team of Javanese
players in Australia.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The South African Rugby
players in England have started off well in
their opening matches, which include wins
over Newport and Swansea, the powerful
Welsh clubs, which have upset more than
one combination of overseas players. Never-
theless, the British critics are not im-
pressed with the football shown by the visi-
tors. Most who have seen Springbok foot-
ball will agree with the verdict that their
displays are colorless, if effective. “They
have not the carefully laid plans for inten-
sive backing up that made the All Blacks
so dangerous. They are not as fast as the
Waratahs, though they challenge the Aus-
tralians as successful exponents of the cross-
kick, and they lack the almost reckless
audacity that made the Maoris so attractive.”
Something to keep in mind when the xiustra-
lian side invades Afrikanderdom next year.


Perfect beauty
comes to your Hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row*
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
afflcTs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
.1. H. & CO.
REDUCTION IN CHRISTMAS TARIFF
AT MT. BUFFALO
The tariff at The Chalet, Mt. Buffalo National Park
(Vic.), for the coming Christmas-New Year vacation
fortnight has been reduced from 17s. 6d. to 15s. a
day.
Combination tickets are on issue at the Sydney
and Melbourne Tourist Bureaux, for the Christmas
fortnight, covering first-class return rail and road
travel to Mt. Buffalo, and one week's accommodation
at The Chalet.
From Sydney, £ll
From Melbourne, £6/15/-
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(.also at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling -—■■ , - .. .
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
ď
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life.
The promoters of Health Week have
thoroughly enjoyed themselves, as everybody
does when lie is playing liis own game.
Metropolitan Officer Dr. Purdy, not so young
as he was but just as active, had liis crowded
hour when he climbed into the ring at the
Stadium and knocked his man out in the
second round. As for Bjelke Petersen, liis
act, staged on a lorry in Martin-place, might
have been imagined by Jack Cannot in one
of his best moments. Jack loved to get
his audience singing at his nod; Bjelke had
Martin-place swinging about in physical-
culture swipes, waving arms and swaying hips
to the baton of his voice. Having first
played on the crowd’s imagination with a
25ft. cord, which symbolised the alimentary
canal (and there’s an idea for a mystery
novel: “The Murder on the Alimentary
Canal”), and shown how badly we all treat
it, he told us we were like stoves with the
dampers shut off if our systems didn’t get
sufficient oxygen. Presently he had his audi-
ence opening up its chest, bending forward
from the hips, touching its toes. “The first
time I’ve looked at my toes except through
a mirror for ten years!” wheezed one
cushiony lady. Queerly enough, the women
were less self-conscious than the men over
these community exercises. Perhaps the
sight of the three glowing physical-culture
girls on the lorry beside their instructor had
something to do with it.
To the Racial Hygiene Society, which
fitted its conference into Health Week,
Director-General of Public Health Dr. Dick
advised birth-control education. On the same
day Archbishop Kelly, speaking to the
Hibernians at their conference, denounced
it as race suicide. Now the birth-controllers
can see what they are up against. If the
St. Patrick’s Day procession is a mile long,
Hygiene or no Hygiene the Twelfth of July
turn-out must be a mile long too.
The Race Week that has just slipped by
was one of the dullest Sydney has known.
There were a few charity flutters whose
tickets were priced so close to the bone
that even a conjurer couldn’t have juggled
a baby car out of the catering cheque; for
the rest, a few home-brewed cocktail parties.
An orgy of organdie evening frocks was in-
dulged in by the young and not-so-young.
and some of the older ones looked as if they
had cut down on, everything—even make-up.
The poor musician long since ceased to hope
for engagements. Hardly anybody but Mrs.
Walter Swinson and Bertie Kelly nowadays
serves a local Kreisler or Carreuo with a
party. Is it quite necessary? Most of us
can’t afford extravagances; but this looks
the very time when those who could spend
should. Economy too easily slips into selfish
meanness.
Every incoming steamer brings us more
returned empties; and a larger homing flight
is promised. The banker who cashes this
Letter’s cheques in a moderation which at
times is very provoking has been trying to
explain the why of it. It seems that if you
take f 100 of our money to England it is now
worth there not quite £77 ; and that’s no worse
than it was. But once you put your foot
outside England you know what “going off
the standard” means, for your £lOO, already
shrunk to £77 in London, shrinks to a poor
little £6l in Nice or Monte Carlo. And
there are hundreds of Australians who have
been in the habit of flying to the Riviera to
escape the English winter —or (though you
shouldn’t mention this, of course) for _ the
sake of the cheaper living. But there isn’t
much cheap living when your Australian
£lOO won’t pay bills for more than £6l.
Some of the more-or-less permanent t’other-
siders who have been driven back to Aus-
tralia are so sorry for themselves that they
arrange little parties, to which only exiles
are invited, where a few of them flaunt a
superiority complex, while the tactful purr
about how nice it is to know again an Aus-
tralian winter and spring. But all of them
keep one eye on the foreign exchange lists
and the other on the outward steamer book-
ings.
The expensive thing about Jessie Tait’s
wedding to artist Jim Bancks was the Balo-
kovic solo in the church; yet probably that
wasn’t an expense, as the violinist and his
wife were guests at the wedding feast.
Covers were laid for 25 only at Firenze, the
Tait home at Edgecliff, after Canon Lea had
tied the knot at St. Mark’s at Darling
Point.
The usual press publicity had drawn an
overflow audience, and E.J. smiled with
absent-minded approval as his practised eye
swept “the house”; for a moment, he pro-
bably thought it was another good G. and S.
night. Anyway, the Firm has never intro-
duced a more attractive juvenile lead to
the public than daughter Jessie was in her
simple frock, the green of lily-of-the-valley
leaf. Tulle veil, long gloves and shoes were
to match, and lilies-of-the-valley formed a
wreath for her smooth red head and a sway-
ing garland about her throat. Sister
Dorothy, in parchment laces girdled with
twisted mauve and green, walked after,
carrying tulips which might have been cut
from vellum. Mrs. E. J. Tait was very
smart in flower-spattered chiffons. As for
Jim Bancks, he stood up like a man and
welcomed his responsibilities. Arthur Mailey
stood by. Gretel Bullmore got herself
noticed among the guests with her tight-
fitting black velvet cap, smart but hard to
wear. Her frock was of pink georgette, and
Zlatko Balokovic’s wife also wore pink under
a black velvet wrap.
Of all his art proteges Jimmy Bancks was
probably the one who had the warmest affec-
tion of William Macleod. Jimmy was a
young clerk in a wool-and-produce store
when he brought his first drawings to The
Bulletin. Taking a very practical view
of things, he was disinclined to throw away
a very modest sure thing for an art future
he wasn’t at all confident about. But Mac-
leod guaranteed him enough work for two
years to equal his wool-store salary, and the
young man took the plunge. The birth of
Ginger Meggs came later.
The theatres have been helping, too. The
earnest little Playbox has been putting on
“Philip’s Wife,” a propaganda play with
v.d. as its theme, as its contribution to the
Week. On the opening night racial hygien-
ists turned up in force, and, after the cur-
tain, speeches were made and questions
asked and answered with the liveliest in-
terest. On the 29th, at the Savoy, Vinia de
Loitte’s production of “Just One Slip,” Dr.
Bill Mackay’s ringdinger attack on v.d., is
threatened with an overflow audience. One
mistaken press-girl, who thought it was a
comedy, spoke of it as “just one petticoat.”
And perhaps she wasn’t more than one out.
Two new Columbia Maori records, “The
Warriors’ Departure” and “March Forward,
O Ye Arawas!” are still beating through
this Letter’s consciousness. They are sung
with the right martial sweep, and in places
the right wistfulness, by the Rotorua Maori
Choir; and behind that well-balanced, beau-
tifully-modulated, unaccompanied native
singing you glimpse Maoriland’s dramatic
lakes stretched below glittering mountains,
its rivers of legend, its people sprung from
a race of warriors.
Not many people combine the gift for
writing poetry and a real understanding of
politics. The girl in this picture, Brenda
Mocatta, is one. Hers is one of the fresh
voices in the
women’s
United Asso-
ciations, where,
besides mak-
ing eloquent
and logical
speeches, she
can flash a
highlight for
weaker sisters
on such mat-
ters as con-
s t i t u tional
g o v e rnment
and the, to
her, abhorred
Douglas Credit
system. Bren-
da’s uncle is
the well-
known Dis-
trict Court
Judge, who has
just been list-
ening to addresses on his retirement, so it’s
not strange that the study of law lured
the young woman away from literature, her
first love, though she still writes an occa-
sional essay. She has in the making a book
of essays on Jack Lindsay’s “Dionysos”;
in between she is working out a new system
of voting. She has just returned from a
year’s travels in Europe, where the most'
interesting men she met were the editors of
“Farrago” and the Oxford “Outlook.”
Balokovic has made a discovery since he
came to Australia. He has found the game
of billiards, and now he will spend hours
happily over the table. The other Sunday
when he and his wife supped with the Dan
Kellys, billiards and Balkan politics—the
latter discussed with Ted Theodore —filled
his evening. Moiseiwitsch was another musi-
cian who enjoyed his billiards at the sur-
geon’s Kirribilli home.
Patricia Richards, whose engagement to
the 21-year-old Earl of Jersey is announced,
has only just left school. Her presentation
at Court in June was her first social func-
tion. She is the only daughter of Ken
Richards, who played polo for Sydney before
the depresh put the game in cold storage,
and is a popular Union Club member, and of
his wife, who was Eileen Maiden, of Strath-
field. Mrs. Ken was the late Mrs. Tony
Hordern’s alter ego when they were in Syd-
ney, and they took their children to London
at the same time. She rented a small flat
in Curzon-street, sent her tall, fair-haired
girl to the most fashionable establishment
for young ladies in England, and became a
well-known figure in London’s Anglo-Aus-
tralian colony. The Jerseys still keep in
touch with Australia, though it is nearly
40 years since the grandfather of the present
earl was Governor of N. S. Wales, and though
the garden parties at Osterley Park, near Lon-
don, which many Australians attended, have
become things of the past since he died in
1915. Pat Richards’s future husband is
one of the greatest catches in the kingdom.
He had an eight years’ minority after the
death of his father, and owns, in addition
to Osterley, a famous place near Oxford
and another in Wales.
The nice young thing in this Rene Pardon
picture is Margery Halloran, who acts as
hostess for her father, Grand Master of the
State’s Free-
masons and
much besides.
Margery, who
brings ease
and dignity to
her duties, is
an old Church
of England
Grammar girl.
She shares
li e r father’s
passion for
A u s t r alian
history, and is
treasurer of
the women’s
branch of the
H i s t o rical
Society. She
is a keen stu-
dent of litera-
ture, and is a
constant
attender at
the meetings of the Dickens Fellowship.
You remember “The Caravaners” the
best thing the ex-Sydneyside authoress of
“Elizabeth and Her German Garden” ever
wrote. A homely couple in the north of S.
Australia lately decided to celebrate their
silver wedding likewise; only the S. Aus-
tralians had a motor-truck, on which was
built quite a villa, with water-tank and all
home comforts barring the cat and the rate-
collector. In this the family, father, mother
and two children, travelled through to
Broken Hill and Cobar, then up into Queens-
land, across to Brisbane and down the coast
to Sydney. When this Letter picked them
up the caravan was drawn up in a clump of
timber on the Pennant Hills-road, and the
enthusiastic picnickers were packing up for
the homeward run via Canberra.
The shade of Herod must have slunk right
down among the reeds along the Styx
last week when secretary Alice "Friend’s
voice, reading the report, floated across the
gardens of Tresillian, at Petersham. This
is the headquarters of the Royal Society for
the Welfare of Mothers and Babies, and
the report told of 232 babies and 142 mothers
put on the highway to health within its
walls. One youngster, who at his birth
weighed only lib. 15oz. eight months ago,
is still at the home and getting along very
nicely, thank you. Dr. Charles Clubbe, Dr.
J. S. Purdy, Dr. Sydney Morris and Dr.
Gordon Tait wore the smile of congratula-
tion at the news that, in spite of only £750
being received from the Government within
the last year, the home had carried on just
as usual, and that 52 nurses had enrolled
for the mothercraft course. Tresillian is
primarily a mothercraft training school, and
an interesting point was that among its
trainees last year were three matrons of
private hospitals in Sydney. Mrs. W. P.
McElhone was re-elected president of the
board of management.
Captain Pitt Rivers, who until his former
good-looking wife divorced him last year
was son-in-law of ex-G.G. Lord Forster, is
married again. The lady this time is Rosa-
lind Venetia, a daughter of the late Brig.-
Geueral Anthony Henley. The marriage fol-
lowed swiftly after the publication of the
captain’s book “Weeds in the Garden of
Marriage.” The first Mrs. Pitt Rivers still
clings to her stage work under the name of
Mary Hinton.
China came to the International Ball,
which is to help the League of Nations fund,
but did not walk in the pageant. Perhaps
it was feeling rather like a lost, bewildered
child. The pageant was only a procession
this year; but after the arrival of the vice-
res. the flag-decked Blaxland Galleries were
heartened by the fluttering skirts of Eng-
land, Ireland and Scotland, France, Greece,
Japan. Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands,
Poland, Switzerland and Italy. The ladies,
suitably manned, were loudly applauded by
the 700 dancers. These included a group
of the English Public School boys now
having the time of their young lives in
Australia.
Harry Dangar. whose show of water-
colors of Old Sydney has been drawing his
cousins and his aunts to the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, had one of the season’s healthiest out-
breaks of red seals last week. Glimpses ot
Sydney of 90 years ago are reproduced m
these limpid drawings, and as the prices
were round about five guineas the sales were,
for the times, brisk. As soon as he got Ins
show under way Harry was planning a
six-month theatrical season in Newcastle.
The company isn’t taking its Palace play
“When Knights Were Bold,” though the
dear romantic old thing might make quite
a hit in coal-hewing Newcastle if they re-
christened it “When Nights Were Cold.”
A batch from Bananaland :
At Rowe’s banqueting hall the Victoria League had
i dance. His Ex. and Lady Goodwin were there,
she in red crepe satin and georgette. The visiting
boys from English public schools were among the
guests. The hostesses were Dorothy Hawthorn,
Tessa Reading, Pauline Elliot, Audrey Herring,
Hilda Nicholson and Madge Macdonald. Mrs. A. E.
Moore wore dawn pink; Mrs. J. W. Greene, white
net, with a silver bridge coat trimmed in white fox ;
Mrs. Charles Elliot was in black lace; Mrs. Tweedie
chose black and silver; maize and cyclamen taffetas
clothed Tessa Reading; Dorothy Hawthorn chose
turquoise; Pauline Elliot’s chiffon had a poppy
design; Audrey Herring wore brown; Hilda Nichol-
son was in apple-green, Madge Macdonald in flame-
red, and Prudence Gross in peach-toned chiffon.
Sir John Goodwin and Agent-General Macartney
were guests of the committee for luncheon at the
Q.T.C. races. Lady Goodwin, who came later, wore
mastic and blue crepe de Chine and royal blue silk
repp coat with royal blue hat. Mrs. Campbell was
in black silk with a bowler hat; Mrs. Arthur Clark
chose parchment and red.
The gifted Guyatt family assembled in the
Teachers’ Conference hall to give sister Dolores a
helping hand up. the ladder that leads to grand
opera; exquisite flowers and a full house were other
items. The soprano, who sang beautiful Mozart songs,
has some very charming notes and all the appearance
of a diva. Her brother Leo and her sister, Italia
Guyatt, gave a striking rendering of the duologue
between the Queen and Hamlet. Jean McLaren
brought her violin, and John Thomas and Peg
Williams, the Welsh singers, contributed to the
programme. Dolores Guyatt is Arthur Boyle’s dis-
covery.
Pretty Shirley Lawson is again before us with
her violin. She is the first Queenslander to gain
an honors pass in the exam, for Licentiate of Music.
“Should married women have the right to earn
money?” was discussed at the inter-club debate at
the Women’s Club. Mrs. Fred Tritton did the
welcoming, F. T. Cross the adjudicating; Mrs. A.
J. Mallalieu led the Ayes and Dorothy Mirls the
Noes. It was fitting that those who voted against
the measure should all be spinsters. They won.
Ruby G. Young became Mrs. Arthur Stephens in
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian kirk, Creek-street. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
pastel satin with veil of Brussels lace. Gwen .Tones
and Phyllis Cottell ’maided in ivory mariette. West-
minster private hotel saw the feasting.
At Casapalca, Nambour, Harold Whitney married
Peggy French. The bride was in white marocain
and ’broidered net veil; a ruehing of very rare-
old lace belonging to her grandmother made the cap.
Blue and white chiffon was worn by bridesmaid
Dorothea Tompkins.
Colonel and Mrs. N. A. IT. Campbell—he is A.D.C.
to Sir John Goodwin —will have a trip to Maoriland,
after viewing the Melbourne Cup and before return-
ing to England. They have both been very popular
in Brisbane.
October has been a much cooler month than
usual in Brisbane, but the jacarandas and silky-
oak trees are all abloom. The road to Tambourine
Mountains is flanked with the gold of the wild honey-
suckle, and here and there are great bunches of rose-
red bougainvillaea.
Tassie’s news:—
The Young Nationalists ran a bridge party in the
A.W.N.L.’s rooms, Mrs. Alan Miller doing the
organising. In the North, too, the A.W.N.L. has
been active. Mrs. Mary Parker went up to Laun-
ceston to address meetings, and there was a card
party on the following night to help the League
funds.
Mrs. P. 0. Fysh, popular in the North for her
many activities, was entertained at a birthday party
at the Ka-pai tearooms by a number of friends. The
dance-room was decorated with spring flowers and
the lady was showered with bouquets before she cut
the birthday cake.
Many Hobartians must have read with interest
that the Right Rev. 11. 11. Montgomery and his
wife have been celebrating their golden wedding in
Ireland. lie was Bishop of Tasmania from 1889 to
1901, and in those days Bishopscourt' was a centre
of both church and social activities. The family
has scattered to many parts of the world, but most
of them assembled in Ireland for the festive occasion.
Patricia, only chick of the late Mr. and Mrs.
C. R. Davies, Redkniglit’s-road, and Eric, elder son
of Mrs. and the late Mr. T. B. Henry, announce
their intention of entering into life partnership in
the near future.
Congratulations are being received by Mrs. Tom
Murdoch on being elected a member of the University
Council—the first to flutter a petticoat in those
scholastic regions. The little lady is a live wire in
many directions and fully deserves her latest dis-
tinction.
After a long spell of atrocious weather the skies
cleared for the Launceston Show at Elphin, and the
promoters were all smiles on the opening day. The
Lieut.-Gov. was on the sick list, so Premier McPhee
did the official opening. Draught-horses came into
a bit of their own again, and the ring events were
a feature. The women’s hunter prize went to J. N.
Archer’s After Dark, ridden by Kathleen Mercer. The
women’s industries section drew crowds on each day.


Columbia
s Finest Portable
p
&
■
1
%
ess
Jk
vs
V.
n
Xd
M
K
a
S 3
W
1
X
a
s
//^
5«
%
V
Here it is! The Portable
that challenges the world
at any price possessing
marvellous tone, range
and volume
MODEL 112 a SPECIFICATION:
CABINET.—Shaped like an Attache Case, with handle, and two oxidised locks. Constructed
in selected hardwood, covered Black Morocco-grain Leather Cloth. Length 165'4-ins..
width IIX-ins.. height Fitted with spring-cover needle cup. Nickelled carrier in
lid for eight 10-in. Records.
MOTOR.—Specially powerful British-made Single-Spring Motor, to play 10-inch and 12-inch
Records. 10-in. Turntable. Velvet-covered nickelled flange. Patent hinged winding crank
that folds into the cabinet.
TONE-ARM. New type Columbia “Plano-reflex” Tone-Arm. improved "goose-neck” type,
mounted on ball-bearings, connected with scientific tone conduit and amplifier.
SOUND-BOX.—New Columbia detachable "No. 15a” Sound-Box. providing increased musicoS
range of equal response.
WITH CARRIER IN LID FOR EIGHT RECORDS
Portable
Ask
dealer for
demonstration
your
a
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.'W.: Columbia Graphophone (Aust.), Ltd.
(Wholesale Department),
Parramatta Road, Homebush.
VIC.: Columbia Graphophone (Auet.), Ltd.
(Wholesale Department),
300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l
Q’LD.: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Claridge House, Gawler Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


đ
After Outdoor Exercise
Wash Out Your Pores
with
Cutfcura
and hot water
Anoint any redness or roughness
with Cuticura Ointment.
Nothing better for keeping the
skin in good condition.
Soap le. Ointment Ib. and 2b. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towub&Co., Sydney,N.S.V.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %
greater
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
$ $ $
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
Che Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
■R.OBT D FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L S MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London
Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckleys e-Nunn, Lrimited,
So[?] so M[?]
This Page hoped to wax lyrical about
chiffon and lace and floppy hats, flower-
decked and feather-draped, that fluttered in
a soft caressing breeze under a golden sun on
Caulfield Cup day, but one can t do that and
respect the truth. The weather was rotten,
and the finery alluded to hung at home in
wardrobes or lay prone in tissue-paper wrap
pings, while its owners hunted out wintei
wraps and inked up the rubbings of time.
The lilies-of-the-valley, always looked for at
this season, did not fail us, and at least
half the women present tucked sprays on
their coat-collars and lapels. Despite leaden
skies and frequent showers the attendance
seemed enormous, with continuous queues at
all the tote windows. Occasionally the crowd
was so dense that it looked as if QO e could
walk over the sea of umbrellas. There was
full vice-regal patronage. The Governor-
General and his lady arrived after lunch,
but were there to see the big race, his Lx.
presenting the Cup. Her Ex., who had tea
with the wife of the chairman, Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, and other of the committee s women-
folk, wore a topcoat of black pony, lur-
collared, and a shiny straw fiat. Lieutenant-
Governor Irvine and his wife arrived early,
he lunching with the chairman and com-
mittee, while his lady, who was m a navy
suit and matching hat, picked a bit with
Mrs. Chaffey. Other guests at the official
table were Mrs. Wilkinson, wife of Major
Wilkinson, A.D.C.; Mrs. R. G. Casey, Mrs.
Lauchlan Mackinnon, Mrs. W. Rogers Thom-
son and Miss F. McPherson.
During a lull between the showers both
v -r. couples promenaded in front of the
stand, and inspected the beautiful mounds
of rhododendrons, azaleas and other blossoms
that decorate the sheltered rear of the build-
ing where the band was stationed during
rainy periods. The course itself was a pic-
ture with long beds of cinerarias, snap-
dragons and other flowers making lines or
vivid color on lawns like green carpets, in
the big crowd were Mrs. Fred .Thiel and her
daughter Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, both
smartly tailored. Mrs. M. L. Baillieu whose
stone-colored tweed coat was topped with
a sulphur-yellow crotchet beret, was accom-
panied by her mother, Mrs. Willsallen, of
Svduev. Mayoress Luxton was there with
Mrs if. J. Nicholas. Mrs. Lon Buxton, m
green and white flecked tweed, received con-
gratulations on the win of her new geegee,
Dutchie. Mrs. A. M. Dale was with her
daughter Mrs. Bishop, whose cocoa-colored
suit was allied to a brown hat. Mrs. Oscai
Ireland, Mrs. Norman Falkmer Dr. and
Mrs Daly, who had with them Mr. Justice
McTiernan, Mrs. Rupert Green and Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens and her daughter Mrs. Harold
Anderson, of Geelong, were in the throng.
Crimson roses bordered the straight of
Moonee Valley racecourse on Wednesday.
Though the day was magnificently fine anu
almost hot, there was no great show ot
summer finery. The usual friendly prea-
minary luncheon was staged by chairman
Alister Clark and the committee. Attend-
ance was hardly up to expectations, but all
the regulars were there. Just here and there
one noticed a figured silk or lace frock, and
the latest millinery was to be seen every-
where. The breeze stirred ostrich tips and
lengthy plumes on hats that shone with var-
nish The panama also had an outing. Ihe
tailored coat and skirt costume was popular
in lightweight woollen materials, and such
silken fabrics as crepe de Chine and maro-
cain. Mrs. Stirling Rogers featured in her
smart suit shepherd’s plaid in black and
white, topped by a white hat. Mrs. H. l.
Creswick sported costume and hat of vivid
blue. Russell Clarke, who was lately elected
to the M.V.R.C. committee, came with his
daughter Marjory, who wore a heather-mix-
ture tweed suit with folded toque-like hat
of the same material. Mrs. Albion Walke-
ley was there in black, with a dash of lemon
tint as relief. Dr. Jack Merrillees was with
his wife and her sister Mrs. Ilele, of Adel-
aide The W. Rogers Thomsons and Kath-
leen, Mr. and Mrs. Archie Currie and Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald were among those who
enjoyed the sunshine.
Tlie Irvine lady, in navy blue with a shiny
black straw hat, launched the Arts and Crafts
show at the Town Hall, and received a
posy of lilac and crimson roses. A feature
of the show is a number of weaving exhibits
ranging in fineness from rugs to Assam-silk
scarves. To show how it is done, tw T o or
three looms are kept busy by demonstrators.
Dress materials are included in the manu-
factures, and Miss Butchart has turned out
tapestry in brown and fawn design, with
which she has upholstered a Jacobean chair.
Entries from Sydney include evening coats
of chiffon velvet decorated with flowered
designs in Batik that blend shades of blue
and pink, browns and amber or rosy tints
and black. Illuminated and ornamental
printing on parchment is featured in seven
of the 42 volumes to be placed in the Shrine
of Remembrance, containing the names of
Vic. members of the A.I.F. Michael
O'Connell shows some attractive dyed silk
and stencilled draperies.
A mannequin parade of beach wear showed
us that swimming costumes are to be scantier
than ever, to facilitate sun-basking. They
are made in spotted and striped patterns,
one-piece and two-piece, as of yore, but there
is also a new sort with a very gay top
section contrasted with a duller lower halt.
A bit of a skirt is attached to some of the
newest styles. Embroidery embellishes
new rubber caps, which are made in a variety
of shapes. There are also vividly-colored
handkerchief-shaped rubber scarves. Out of
the water the pyjama suit, framed on Spanish
or Mexican lines, must be worn. The coats
run from the bolero style to hip-length. For
these suits all sorts of figured materials are
being used, and very popular also are those
made up in jersey silk m self colors »e e
ally a blend of two shades. Hats may be
of any size, from the huge straws of
greaser to the tiny white linen pork-pie
cap of the gob. Millinery of
as the ’jamas is also favored. Other acces
sories to the beach-promenade rigout are
wooden, plaited raffia or straw sandals, pic
turesque bags, wraps of the kimono orde ,
and, of course, vivid-hued parasols of Chines
extraction.
Muffs are in again; they are to be see
both at day and evening functions on dressy
occasions. At several dances lately some of
the girls have carried muffs, some i ldlcl J
louslv small, others large, made of fur or
of the material of their frocks. A few fresh
flowers, orchids for choice, are used to give
a festive touch. . .
Zlatko Balokovic, tallish and athletic-
looking, made the audience at the Audi-
torium his friends on sight by the n c
friendly way in which he treated his ve J
tall accompanist, Ivyell Fleetwood. - y
Balokovic, willowy and girlish, with a well-
coiffured Eton crop, was present m a gow n
of lovely cream lace and a crimson and gold-
brocaded coat lined with emerald-green
satin. Others in the audience were the
Consul for France, M. Forcioli, the J. T.
Tweddlcs and their two daughters, Mrs. Leon
Jona, the Best lady, Mrs. Cecil Allport Mrs.
Cazabon and a whole raft of musicians.
At Melbourne Grammar School chapel the
knot was tied between Dorothy, youngest
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Laurence
Hanlon and Dr. Thomas Travers, of Toorak.
The bride carried a bouquet of crimson roses
against her ivory moire draperies, over which
cascaded a veil of rare lace.
The Rev. C. E. Gayer was married at
St. Paul’s Cathedral to Violet, daughter o
the late Mr. and Mrs. E. Douglas Oldfic c,
of this city. The bride, who was attended
by her sister Edith, wore filmy black lace
with touches of embroidery in pale gieen ai d
lime, topped by a green hat.
Mary, daughter of surgeon H B. Devine
and Mrs. Devine, of Toorak, celebrated he
lfitli birthday on Saturday with tennis and
dancing. The nice flapper, who received Hots
of beautiful presents, .wore a dainty trocK
of white crepe de Chine and a sports coat of
amber hue. Guests were her schoolmates
of Mandeville Hall.
Isabel Handley’s one-act rhymed play
“The Garden Party” had Rs premerc at
a recital given by pupils of the Standard
Verse-speaking Club under the direction ot
Eileen O’Keefe. The amusing piece was
accorded a warm reception, being nicely pre-
StedbyNancyDobson Phyllis Bones Olma
Woolford, Clarice Begelhole, Stanley Livin„
ston and Kenneth Lou|hnan
Smedley’s rhyming play Phe ? Luiious
Herbal,” and Gordon Bottomley s cholic
play “The Singing Sands” were also pio-
Nancy. a daughter of professorial-knight
Thomas Eyle, pioneered the way for her sex
in a solo flight to Adelaide, taking eight
hours In addition to aviation, Miss Gyle
is interested in sculpture, and has turned
out some delightful statuettes and plaque
portraits.
Trinity Women’s Society met round the
dinner table at Janet Clarke Hall to elect
officers. Mrs. Konrad Hiller, retiring presi-
dent, was in the chair, and Enid Joske, pun
cipal of Janet Clarke Hall, Dr. Constance
Ellis and Dr. Mona Blanch made speeches.
Joan Finlayson was elected president.
Looking from
out this Broo-
thorn picture is
Gladys Ivenn,
who has made
appearances in
a variety of
roles with
the Student
Theatre So-
cie t y. Her
latest was
Anne in “Out-
ward Bound.”
She is a pupil
of Lucy Ahon,
and with a
fellow-student,
Mabel Thomp-
son, will give
a recital of
prose and
verse at the
Queen’s Hall
next week.
Miss Edward Duckett, of Hawthorn, lent
her home for a bring-a-gift-buy-a-gift fair
in aid of St. Martin’s and St. John’s homes
for boys, and Mrs. J. G. Latham launched
the enterprise with praise for the work done
at these C.E. institutions. The Rev. Eric
Thornton returned thanks. The Hawthorn
band made music, and there were tennis and
some other side-lines.
The Proscenium Club mummers met at
their headquarters for a dance after a
strenuous round of rehearsals and perform-
ances. The committee gathered up plenty
of dancers. The president, Mrs. Cockerton,
was in filmy black lace.
The Animal Welfare League is commenc-
ing the publication of a magazine, to appear
twice a year. Lady Somers has written a
foreword. It. is intended to distribute the
first number free for propaganda purposes in
connection with Animal Welfare Week, which
coincides with the Cup period.
Mrs. J. G. Latham launched a fair and
bridge party at Lovell House, Caulfield, to
swell the funds of this home, which gives
accommodation to retired governesses and
other gentlewomen.
Early this year the Cairns Memorial
Dramatic Society formed a student thcatie
branch, which recently performed “Minick,
a three-act comedy by Edna Berber and
George S. Kaufman. Norman Balmer and
Lewis Tegart, of the senior society, sup-
ported the tyros and shared laurels with
Bee Watson.
An afternoon gathering at the Royal Auto-
mobile Club aided the cause of the blind.
Mrs 11. J. Robertson, a symphony in brown,
and Mrs. J. B. Mills, wearing check tweed
costume and matching hat. directed the
affair, which had musical interludes.
Appearing as leading lady in Betty M.
Davies’s detective talkie The Spur of the
Moment” is Beatrice Touzeau, daughter of
Madame Renee Touzeau, teacliei of P iai °
and violin. Miss Touzeau, young and O ood
looking, was a student of the Albert-street
Con where she gathered a diploma fot
singing and dramatic art She had some
stage experience with the Allan \S llkie Co.
The Y.W.C.A. in Melbourne will lose early
next year its general secretary, Jean Steven-
son, who has accepted a similar position in
Maoriland. . ,
After some 18 months or so in Croydo
(N.Q.), Leonora Gregory, proprietor of the
“Gulf News,” i.s on a visit to her folk at
Horsham Miss Gregory, who is an ex-
student of Firbank College, had some free-
lancing experience in this city pnor to he
purchase of the northern weekly.
This is Irene Carter, the Westralian
water-colorist, who has been exhibiting some
of her pic-
tures, mostly
of Italian
landscapes, in
this city. One
was bought
for the Castle-
maine Art
Gallery. Ron-
ald Esler has
furnished the
camera study
of Miss Car-
ter, who is a
daughter
of the G. D.
Carters, of
West Perth.
The artist in-
her i t s her
talent from
her mother, a
M a orilander,
who prior to
her marriage
studied at the Melbourne National Gallery
under the late Fred McCubbin.
Salvation Army Commissioner Mackenzie
and liis wife welcomed home the other day
their daughter Mavis, who for the last five
years has been studying in London and on
the Continent. She intends to go m for
teaching.
Mrs. Kingsford Smith, accompanied by her
sister Mrs. Tom Patterson and her mother
Mrs. A. ll'. Powell, set off by the Orsova
to meet her husband at Colombo on his
return from his unlucky flight to England.
With such a bodyguard to escort him home,
the air-commodore shouldn’t mind so much
missing making and breaking a record.
Among Melbourne women who have
returned from abroad in time for Cup Week
are Mrs. Percy Chirnside and her daughter
Molly, Mrs. Winter Irving and her daughters
Mary and June, and Mrs. Cleve Kidd and
her daughter Betty.
Agnes Maclntyre’s place as head of the
almonry department of Melbourne Hospital
has been taken by Joan Brett, of Kingston
Hospital, Surrey, who arrived last week.
South Aus. canters in: —
Mr. and Mrs. 0. H. Goddard celebrated their
diamond wedding on October 12. Mr. Goddard was
an officer of the first cavalry regiment in S.A. His
wife is a daughter of the late George Affleck (after-
wards Earl Danby, of Swinton Park, Yorkshire).
They have eight children living, 25 grandchildren
and two great-grandchildren.
In aid of the missions to seamen a concert
was held at Australia Hall. His Ex. and Lady Ilore-
Ruthven were received by Mrs. Francis J. Fisher
(president of the society). Mesdames J. H. Gosse
and W. Duncan had a sweet stall, and Commander
and Mrs. Loudoun-Shand and Commander and Mrs.
Warden lent nayal support. Mostyn Skinner arranged
the programme and society was there in full force.
The Sydney Reids gave a cheery dance at their
residence, South-terrace, for daughter Esme. The
hostess wore a smart white and black chiffon toilette
and her two daughters were both flocked in pink.
The young things generally looked very picturesque
in their Early Victorian tight bodices and long bil-
lowy skirts. The Sydney Kidmans and the Walter
Kidmans were the only guests outside the younger
set.
A garden party fete arranged to assist disabled
soldiers in their handcraft work was held iff the
garden at St. Andrew’s, the residence of the C. R.
J. Glovers, North Adelaide. The Red Cross super-
vised all, the stalls with the soldiers’ work were
set round the grass, and capital business was done.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was entertained by the Mayoress
at afternoon-tea.
The English-Speaking Union committee gave a
reception in honor of Mrs. Keith Ransom Kehler, of
Chicago, at the new Wentworth tearooms in the
Liberal Union Building. Mrs. Charles Todd received
and there was a brief programme of music,
the performers being Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson,
Melba Ford and Betty Buddy. Mrs. Kehler gave an
address on “Education for World Peace.”
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Sneyd entertained a number
of friends at a dance given at their home, Avonlea,
Gilberton. The hostess looked charming in pale
pink georgette and gold lace, the drawing-room was
massed with pink roses and gladioli, and red car-
nations and roses were on the supper-table.
The Society of Arts celebrated its 75th birth-
day with a conversazione held in its rooms in the
Public Library. The Mayor, William Sowden, Dr.
R. S. Rogers and Mr. H. E. Fuller spoke, and there
were musical items and a brief sketch, followed by
supper in the Art Gallery.
Westralia’s piece:—
The Old Guildfordians’ annual hop was as jolly
an affair as usual. The Rev. Freeth brought his
black-lace-clad wife. Mary Henn, out from the
Cold Land to spend a few months with her father
at St. George’s College, wore a blue lace ensemble;
Mrs. Don Cleland’s parchment outfit included a little
lace coat; Mrs. Reg Long was in flowered georgettes;
black chiffons over rose were worn by Miss Robin-
son ; Betty de Bernales sported black mittens with
her black taffetas a-flutter with a rose-sewn cape;
tall brunette Mrs. Berry was in green laces; Doris
Good chose a wine shade; Joan Drummond’s leaf-
brown taffetas were cut low off the shoulders; Mrs.
Harry Vincent’s carnation-pink georgettes were in-
serted with deep Vandyke points of lace; Judy Harper
wore sky-blue touched with silver.
The Isaacs lady paid an unofficial morning visit to
the Show. Her retinue included Mrs. T. H. Wilson,
Mrs. Kerr-Pearse and a brace of aides. Among the
exhibits the chinchilla rabbits made a great hit with
her Ex., but she missed the gipsy children swinging
in their soap-box hammocks behind the side shows.
Their eyes glittered like brown beads and a shaggy
donkey nibbled at their raggle-taggle tent. For her
afternoon visit the G.-G.’s wife exchanged her red frock
for a black outfit. Showers of rain sent bystanders
scurrying for shelter, and dressing ran to tweeds an
dark silk materials. The Mitchell and Wittenoom
ladies, Mrs. Irwin Burges, members of the Pa u ‘ ■■
and Clarkson clans, Mrs. Colin Craig and Mrs.
G. Hamshire were noticed among the crowd.
Varied garments came to the King’s Cup.
sharp wind brought out some furs for a final an ing
before their summer rest cure among mothba N
and a warm sky induced the other extreme of law n-
sweeping chiffons and nodding plumes. One gir
only wanted a halo and a pair of wings to complete
her angel’s outfit. The G.-G.’s better half wore a pink
frock beneath her black coat; Mrs. Marillier s straw
hat matched her cigar-brown costume; Mrs. waiter
Cross was in navy cr6pe de Chine ; Mrs. Sam Grjm-
wood wore a tweed coat over a spotty frock; 1 lrs.
Loefller stuck to her navy tailor-made; narrow frills
undulated upon the skirt of Mrs. Jack \ incen s
burgundy cr6pe; Mrs. Cooper w : ore a coat of green
romaine; white trimmings added to the chai m ot
Mrs. Frank Malloch’s black gown; Mrs. D. Moore
chose yellowy tweeds; Mrs. Geof Hearman buckled
a wide shiny belt about her black frock ; Mrs. Tom
Seed was in strawberry; Jean Lang topped lie'
mustard frock with black millinery; Betty lbock-
man w T ore a beige coat and skirt; Mrs. Oscar Negus
contrasted a bowler hat with an Eton crop and a
walking-stick.
At the Shell Ball in the G.-H. ballroom for the
Children’s Hospital, cabaret tables filled galleries,
side alcoves and entrance hall, and supper was spread
downstairs. A topping band did its job from the
dais. Miss Northmore was in red and Mrs.
R. 0. Law in black dashed with gold; Mrs. Jack
Stewart wore white with shiny beads about the
hip-line; Mrs. Kirke Godfrey chose flesh-tinted
chenille georgettes ; Betty Wood attracted admiration
in her eau-de-Nil georgettes with a fluttery cape
and a bunch of violets at her waist; Minnie Gold-
stein was in royal blue, sister Isobel chose white
satin and Winifred was in white brocade; length-
wise stripes ran upon Barbara Clarke’s white taffetas ;
Betty Mitchell was a pink net souffle; Mrs. Hislop,
Mollie Lefroy and Betty Rosenstamm favored white
sheeny garments; Nancy McCulloch was in flowered
taffetas.
One of the last naval flutters was the reception
oil board the Australia at which Captain Bradley
did the honors. A multitude of people drank tea
upon the quarter-deck, fell over one another and
the ship’s gadgets, asked the usual questions and
looked for big guns to peer into. Predominating
among the guests were churchmen, doctors, lawyers
and their wives.


MURDOCH’S
the Mecca
for “Y oung
Australia”
>r
U
mm
r. n
Zf
m
■ %
596
Buys a smart
52/6 Youth’s Suit
Murdoch’s new standard of re-
duced prices brings to young
Aussie this substantial saving!
Refined and smartly-cut Thorn-
proof Tweed Sac Suits for
Youths; also in mid-grey Tweed;
finely-graded sizes ensuring per-
fect fitting, ready for
immediate service for 0«//0
Sports
Suits
• •
27/6
Youths' two-piece Flannel Sports
Suits. Coat and Trousers cut in
latest authentic sports style.
Ready for service.
Youths’
Shirts..
4/n
Fashioned for the utmost in ser-
vice, from high-grade Cambric.
Latest stripings. Golf style with
collar to match.
Youths’
Shoes..
13/6
Comfortable fitting Box Yearling
Oxford Shoes for Youths. “Krom-
hyd” soles double the life of
every pair. Sizes I to 5 . . 13/6
Size 6 15/6
Send for the big Summer Cata-
logue, beautifully illustrated- —■
FREE!
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address letters to Desk “R!
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
“The Store That Saves You Money”
F
111
mm
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
wm
ARE you ALERT FOR
SOMETHING DIFFERENT?
America !
America, pulsing with the
life of her great cities...lav-
ish with scenic wonders...in-
vites you to a fascinating
visit. From the great Mojave
desert, rivaling the Sahara
...the majestic Rocky moun-
tains... the mighty Missis-
sippi "father of waters”...
Niagara Falls, among the
seven wonders of the world,
to the Catskill Mountains of
Rip Van Winkle in Ne w York
State, a constant procession
of new, different sights
await you.
All may be visited in com-
fort and ease over America’s
great railways.
Above Broadway, Los
Angeles, brilliantly met-
ropolitan with its great
playhouses and stores.
Pullman sleeping cars, ob-
servation cars,"diners” that
serve excellent meals... a
co-ordination of facilities
that makes travel a delight
at exceedingly modest cost.
On your way to England, you
will find the route via New
Zealand, Fiji, Somoa and
Hawaii on Matson ships to
San Francisco, and Ameri-
can railway service from
there to your Atlantic liner
in New York, the richest in
dramatic interest.
Let us send you without
obligation, an illustrated
booklet, and assist you in
making all arrangements.
Above —Mormon Tempje,
Salt Lake City...a sightseeing
mecca on a fascinating route
across the United States.
AMERlC'illir RAILWAYS
TRAYE M_ and
lAFORMAIIOA BUREAU
12 Bridge Street / Sydney Telephone B 7981-3
Public Notice.
Station and Farm Workers of all Types
Waiting engagements for country positions make
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
their registered headquarters.
MR. STATIONOWNER! MR. FARMER!
We guarantee the efficiency of employees that we
send vou.
THEIR QUALIFICATIONS ARE MINUTELY
EXAMINED.
We thoroughly understand the types necessary for
country work and discr.minate critically.
83661 RING US 83661
WIRE US. CALL AND SEE US.
OUR MOTTO: INSTANT SERVICE.
N. HARDMAN & CO., 15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Employment Specialists.
METALS ARE UP
and two more Broken Hjll mines are working
full time.
MORE WAGES FOR THE HILL-
MORE SPENDING POWER.
Take advantage of it and advertise in the most
progressive and most widely read paper of the
West,
“THE BARRIER MINER”—
Broken Hill.
Two editions daily.
Missing Friends.
JF KATHLEEN AGNES JARMAN for-
merly of Hobart in Tasmania Milliner
and FRANCIS HOLDCROFT who formerly
resided at Hastings and later at Hobart in
Tasmania will communicate with the under-
signed they will hear something to their
advantage.
PAGE, HODGMAN, SEAGER & DOYLE,
Solicitors,
National Mutual Buildings,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Re EDWARD JULIUS PERSON.
JF the abovenamed or his children will com-
municate with me, not later than 29th
February, 1932. they will hear of something
to their advantage.
F. AY. MOLE,
Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland.
WILL JACK COL WILL, of Devon, Eng-
land, communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie. Home address.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“A Free Soul” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney
Plaza, suffers from too many stars. Norma
Shearer is billed as the chief attraction, but
Lionel Barrymore takes charge at an early
stage and gets most of the limelight after-
wards. Some results of their struggle for
supremacy are that continuity is interfered
with, and the show is about three-quarters
of an hour too long. Barrymore supplies a
clever actorish study of a lawyer who is
being dragged from the top of his profession
by booze. Miss Shearer is his daughter.
They are American society folk; it is the
only explanation of their improbable
behavior. He introduces her to a flash
gangster (Clarke Gable) whom he is defend-
ing for murder. The young people admire
each other on sight and exchange ties to
prove it. After the acquittal, Barrymore
brings his brutish client to a family party
wdiere Miss Shearer has just announced her
engagement to Leslie Howard, a mild-
mannered, polo-playing millionaire. Because
the gangster is received coldly, she goes off
with him, reaches his rooms after their car
has been bombarded by an opposition gang,
and, in the delicate phrase of the blurb-
writer, “gives all that a woman can give.”
Eventually she grows tired of him, and, as he
threatens to have her murdered, the faithful
polo-player gets in first by cold-bloodedly
murdering him. All hands now disclose that
their souls, though free, are noble. Howard,
in order to save Miss Shearer’s reputation,
says he killed Gable in a gambling row. As the
Judge is on the point of donning the U.S.A.
equivalent of the black cap Barrymore
staggers in, has the defence re-opened,
extracts the story of his daughter’s shame
from her in the box, and falls dead while
addressing the jury. The turgid dialogue
gives Miss Shearer few chances to display
her gift for comedy, but it suits Barrymore’s
old-fashioned style. The other stars are
overshadowed by the principals; notably
James Gleason, whose opportunities as a
maker of healthy fun are confined to business
with a hip-flask. The sound and photography
are excellent.
# ¥ #
Two talkies from the British Dominions
studio occupy the Sydney Capitol programme
this week. “A Warm Corner” is based on
a play of the same name which had a long
innings at the Prince’s Theatre, London, and
retains practically the same cast. Good act-
ing, occasional flashes of dialogue and
amusing situations make it worth-while.
Leslie Henson plays the role of Charles
Corner, a millionaire manufacturer of corn-
plasters. His adventures abroad are por-
trayed in the time-honored manner of
British farce-comedy, with a secret marriage,
blackmail and other complications. Henson
makes the best of a machine-made part, and
Connie Ediss abets him with such malaprop-
isms as “I want to show you our dining-
room table, Count, brought over by the Mor-
mons in 1066. It belonged to William the
Concubine.”
“Down River,” the support, should appeal
to those who revel in such stirring scenes
as are purveyed by Douglas Fairbanks, Mil-
ton Sills and co.; and there are many inter-
esting glimpses of the Thames. Harold Huth
plays the principal part, that of a Cus-
toms investigation officer, who, with a police
inspector and a girl reporter, is pitted against
a gang of smugglers. Huth and the girl,
impersonated spiritedly by Jane Baxter, while
exploring the Thames in a speed-boat fall
in with the police, who have just recovered
the body of a murdered man. Clues point
to the murder being the work of Grossman,
skipper of a Chinese tramp steamer and a
suspected smuggler. Visits to a riverside
junk yard and a pub of shady repute
strengthen the evidence against Grossman.
The girl secures further testimony at a night
club, and follows an accomplice of the smug-
gler, but is captured and held prisoner on
the steamer. Huth, who has been pursuing
a clue of his own finding, lands himself in
a ramshackle warehouse, where after an epic
struggle he is overpowered and joins the
heroine as a captive. The water police learn
of their plight, and intercept the vessel just
as she is departing. Edgar Wallace has
written this story at least 19 times.
* *
M.-G.-M.’s “Phantom of Paris,” now flit-
ting across Sydney Regent’s screen, is based
on Gaston Leroux’s “Cheri Bibi.” John
Gilbert's version of the Houdini of the
Cirque de Paris is piquant. He swears he will
marry Leila Hyams, the rich Cecile; her
father says no—not while he lives! That
night father is murdered. And lan Keith,
Marquis du Touchais, Cecile’s fiance, per-
suades Lewis Stone (Costaud, chief of
police) that Bibi is guilty. Bibi escapes
from gaol. Thenceforward the film is crammed
with macabre scenes, acted in shadows.
There is a deathbed scene where a confession
of his guilt is frightened out of the Marquis,
who dies before Bibi can get witnesses. The
camera shifts to the home of Dr. Gorin, a
plastic surgeon, to whom Bibi drags Du
Touchais’s body. An operation and a not
particularly plausible tale enable Bibi to take
the Marquis’s place. Bibi learns that Cecile
has been “wife in name only” to the Marquis
for three years. Had it been for four years
the screen would have been spared her in-
tolerable child. In a characteristic Leroux
climax the late Marquis’s mistress, Vera
(Natalie Moorhead), is tricked by Bibi into
revealing the nobleman’s guilt before Cos-
taud.
The Regent’s minor draw, “A Holy
Terror” (Fox), kicks off in Noo Yoik, and at
the stop-work wdiistle is camped in Wyoming.
Tony Woodbury, played by George O’Brien,
sets out. in a ’plane to find his supposed
father’s murderer, and crashes, into a house
much to the annoyance of Jerry, otherwise
Sally Eilers, who is taking a bath. The
rancher suspected of the murder turns out
to be Tony’s father. The murdered man
was the fellow who bolted with the rancher’s
wife and son a quarter of a century before
: Tony and Jerry, who gallops up in time
[ for the fade-out, fall into each other’s
arms. Mw ■


AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATION
without Electric Supply
,^/A
i. 1
WMimm
m
m
m
Vi
\ \
\ \ N
vg>
» V
fcmk r ?
a 8
\
?y
ii
X 'i'i
ill
1
The “OMNISTAT”
Automatic Engine Control
An Australian invention, designed by practical electric
engineers, and built to the highest known standards of electrical
and mechanical efficiency, the OMNISTAT has been tested in
every conceivable way before release of the production models.
So varied are its applications, and so ingenious the way in
which it performs automatically any or several of a group ot
related electric and mechanical control operations, that it is
impossible to describe in the space available the versatility of
this' precision instrument.
Not only does it perform its functions regularly, unfailingly
and automatically, but it resets itself after each cycle of °P|T a "
tions. Recent tests have shown that at the conclusion ot
automatic engine re-starts the OMNISTAT in use was sti
functioning perfectly and unhesitatingly. A most interesting
illustrated brochure has just been prepared and is available to
enquirers desiring fuller particulars of the possibilities ot the
OMNISTAT in its application to the control ot internal-
combustion engines, particularly automatic refrigerating and
pumping plants.
An enquiry on your business letterhead will
bring you a copy of this publication by return post.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.
MALLOCH HOUSE, 10-14 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY
’Phone 86095.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions ot the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin’’ of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Now that pretty nearly every third man
in Sydney is a solicitor, it would be really
interesting to know what the younger mem-
bers of the profession live upon. As a rule,
the legal infant is a mystery. There is
generally a ticket on his door stating that
he will be back in 10 minutes, but the ticket
is mostly a whited sepulchre and a vain thing,
for he seldom appears till the ensuing morn-
ing or the middle of next week. Then he
sits in his dingy office, the rent of which
is a chronic bad debt, and waits for an hour
or so in hopes that a plaintiff or a defend-
ant may turn up; and about once in a
month or more an excited old woman drops
in with a mildewed umbrella, and tells him
an incoherent narrative about a neighbor
named Mary Jane, who feloniously, capsizes
her ash-barrel, and who lives, in a disrespect-
ful manner that ought to be put down, up two
pairs of stairs, and is a deceitful character in
an unspecified sort of way, and who is
believed to have said something that the
plaintiff didn’t hear distinctly, in consequence
of which the plaintiff wants the solicitor to
recover an enormous sum in damages, and
pay himself out of the proceeds. When his
client has left the lawyer is generally in such
an exhausted state that he puts a ticket on
his door stating that he will be back in 10
minutes, and then goes out and backs a
horse and plays billiards all the rest of
the day. The natural result of this neglect
is that he misses an important appoint-
ment with a man who wants him to defend
a drunk and take his bill at three months,
and a client who dropped in to get out of the
rain goes away cursing. About the middle
of next week a stranger probably calls round
—or more probably he does not call round
—to ask him how much he will charge to
perjure himself in an action for the recovery
of an umbrella, but finding a notice on the
door stating that the owner of the office will
be back in 10 minutes, he also drifts away,
and the business for the rest
of the month is limited to a
call from a person who
wants an impossible alibi in
an assault ease, where six
policemen dragged him off
the top of the complainant,
and are all prepared to
swear to him, and who also
wants to know if cutting oil
the entail will be any good
in such a case. If an agri-
culturist with one eye drops
in and tries to raise a second
mortgage on a swamp with
a defective title and a dead
alligator in it there is a feel-
ing of unexpected prosper-
ity in the office, and in his
exuberance the solicitor pro-
bably puts a notice on the
door stating that he will be
back in 10 minutes, and goes
out to have a drink, and
forgets to return for 48
hours. Still, if he is an able
and energetic individual he
may ultimately get a joo
from a woman who wants to
shove her father in a lunatic
asylum and take possession
of the paternal public
house; or he may be engaged
to see something that didn’t
happen, or to prove some
circumstance that didn’t
take place, for the benefit of
a man who is tired of the
barmaid he married and
wants to get rid of her; or
someone may even deposit
some title-deeds with him,
which he can mortgage to
the bank and Jive on the pro-
ceeds, and then, when, the
owner wants the securities back, be
probably packs his bag, and puts a
notice on the door stating that he wi A
be back in 10 seconds, and takes the
well-trodden road to Chile or Japan, leaving
his last client to mourn the loss of the bad
debt he hired him to collect, and to look
in vain for the deposit he paid on a brick
house which lie sold to four different per-
sons. [26/7/’9o.]
A well-known Victorian squatter is going
in for a cavalry regiment One of the fads
of a member of his family was a tower or
look-out he had built on his estate. -*-h l s
structure was about 70ft. or 80ft. high with
steps all round it, and on the summit was
mounted a powerful telescope. Hls morn-
ing’s work consisted of racing up to the
top five or six times before dinner; when
he got there he had a clear view all round
for a radius of ten miles, it being very level
and open country When he to
sight a shepherd shading himself fiom the
heat of the sun under a slie-oak tree he
would descend the structure like a streak
of greased lightning and make tor the stable,
where he had a horse always ready saddled.
Then he would mount and make for the place
with all speed, and on getting within a few
hundred yards of the sleeping shepherd he
would dismount and tie his horse up and
A GREEDY MAN.
LITTLE GIRL (passing with her father) loq,: “Ain’t that
a greedy man, Papa? He’s got all, the seat ana
won’t let the young lady have any.”
[By G. R. Ashton,— 9/8/'90.]
then go along and pounce down on, him and
talk to him in the language of the ancient
prophets. Like most station-hands, the shep-
herd would stand all the old man gave him,
The squatter aforesaid usually did all the
bossing among the servant girls, but he at
last got one (an Irishwoman, of course) wh
was a match for him. One day he rac
into the laundry and told the laundress n -
to use so much adjective starch and blanKy
blue, etc. She said nothing at the time, t>u
a few weeks afterwards the great annua
sheep show of the district was to be hei >
and as it was located only a few JP* _
from our friend’s station, all the neighbor
ing squatters used to fetch their stock to
his place the night before the show, and pu
their exhibits in his drafting-yard. On tne
morning of the show all the big guns were
up seeing their stock, old man be in .-,
with them, when who should make hei
appearance but the laundress. After mount-
ing the highest post in the yard and making
due inquiries for her master, who, of course,
went straight over to her, all the others lot-
lowing him under the impression that some-
thing serious had occurred a£ the house, old
Jumbuck asked her what the blank she
wanted him for. She said she wanted to
know if she was to put any starch m the
missus’s clothes this week The rest can
be imagined. [ll/5/’B9. |
There enlisted in the first Vic. Artillery
Corps in the early ’seventies a magnificent
picture of physical perfection—one Terence
O’Dwyer, fresh from County .Clare, 6ft.
sin. in liis stockings, and as shapely as a
Greek god. On the occasion of Terence’s
first guard at Government House, the great
white elephant on the Domain was un-
finished, and the Bowens were temporarily
fixed at Bishopcourt, E. Melb. The corporal
of the guard had posted his new sentry, and
carefully read over to him and explained
the routine orders from the board in. the
sentry-box. Then came a verbal injunction :
“There’s a tame wallaby in the grounds;
be careful he doesn’t nip out through the
gates—he sometimes tries.” Terence specu-
lated what a wallaby was as he marched
briskly to and fro in the boiling sun. It
was the last of four consecutive days of
intense heat; every door and window was
wide open in expectation of a change—which
suddenly came, like a very fury, accompanied
by clouds of dust. The wild south wind
tore into Bishopcourt, banging blinds and
window-sashes and whirling flimsy draperies
about the rooms. In the drawing-room a
light cushion-covering of delicate lace was
violently whisked out of the window. Lady
Bowen, who had witnessed this, called excit-
edly to the placid A.D.0.: “Oh, Major Pitt,
do try and recover that antimacassar; it was
my mother’s own work.” The gallant major
hurried out and vainly searched the grounds.
It occurred to him to question the sentry.
As he approached, Terence, with the assist-
ance. of his carbine, had assumed a paralytic
attitude, which might have been recognised
as a caricature of a present arms. “Haw.
sentry,” drawled the A.D.C., “did you see
an antimacassar fly through the gate?” Ter-
ence’s face was lit up with an apologetic
and deprecatory smile as he replied: “Oh,
the ‘Macassers.’ He wint past me wit tree
leps, and away into the gyardens foreninst
before I could shtur a slitep to shtop ’im.”
Terence has since learnt the difference be-
tween a wallaby and an antimacassar.
EUTHANASIA.
I should not care if, in one long embrace,
My lips might have their wish upon your
face;
My head lie on your breast, your lovelit eyes,
Dark as deep waters, be mine only skies:
If, while my love and life lay in your hands,
Whose lightest clasp is strong as iron bands,
You slew me with your musky-scented hair,
1 should not care!
For after too much sweet there comes the
cloy, , .
And languor follows close on too much joy,
Ho while the sweet is sweet, the fair is fair,
Twine round my throat one tress of youi
bright hair,
And draw it close until each trembling breath
Droops in the silent slumber men call Death .
Love! while your lips are sweet, your face
is fair,
Ah, slay me there!
ZADIG.


Backache
IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say: ‘ Oh, this terrible backache!” Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a “creaky” door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, “tired-out,” “too-
old” feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE
OF YOUR PAIN.
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
They all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help—
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
VSN \ \\ \AA A \ \ 111 hi \l 11*////////s
DcWITTS
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
mmmmm
smmmmMM
mmmmm
■
•:»s
WmMM.
mmsm.
■y/y.
\ !
yyi-.-yy.
»y
END THAT AGONISING
PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellously short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache—there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered severely from chronic
backache, and could yet no rest
at night. One day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills, so I
thought I would buy some. Two
bottles were all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief.”
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham Road, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says; “I cannot speak too highly
of De Witt’s Pills, as when I
started them for kidney trouble
I had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then I was recom-
mended to give 'De* Witt’s’ a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now in perfect
health.”
The Cheerful Corpse.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
TRANSCRIBES ANOTHER STORY FROM THE
DELIGHTFUL MEMOIRS OF BARON VON BIG.
IN the summer of 1829 I had a very curious
and singular adventure with the bush-
rangers at that time infesting the western
districts of the County of Cumberland —
an adventure that came near to terminating
the earthly pilgrimage of one of the most
useful colonists in the Territory. (Needless
to say, I refer to myself, Augustus Von
Big.) When I look back to that episode in
the varied and diversified life of Mr.
Augustus, I am moved to wonder at the
mercy of God, and to surmise that the
Almighty must indeed be possessed of an
exquisite sense of humor which is only too
seldom credited to Him. I do not know
otherwise how 1 could have escaped the
vindictive fury of that evil little Irishman,
who afterwards came to be the hero of a
wretched ballad bawled by the felonry of
New South Wales when maudlin drunk,
and known to every pothouse and convict-
infested hut throughout tin* country side as
“Bold Jack Donahoe."
Undoubtedly, the little devil was “bold,”
I willingly admit. But he was also the most
cold-blooded and murderous guttersnipe ever
bred in the slums of Dublin. The Irish are
a queer people. When they are bad they
are very bad indeed, and I would sooner
trust myself to the amenities of cannibals
than to that class of his race represented
by the bloodthirsty Donahoe. To them assas-
sination is merely a commonplace, murder
natural and diverting.
John Donahoe, strangely enough, had an
appearance that was far from being unpre-
possessing. He was a short and stocky little
follow with the face of a good-looking coun-
try wench, big blue eyes and flaxen hair. But
if his features were effeminate, no other
attribute of the gentler sex belonged to
him. He was a very powerful young fellow,
extraordinarily active, and possessed of
reserves of endurance and hardihood that
splendidly equipped him for the rough and
precarious calling of a bushranger. A
desperate ruffian, who would as soon take
a life as drink a nobbier of rum; indeed,
he might be said to have preferred homicide
to alcohol ns a stimulant, for, if anything,
he was rather abstemious than otherwise.
At one time the redoubtable little fellow
was reputed to be at the head of a banditti
numbering not less than a score, and so
efficiently and with such mobility did they
conduct their freebooting operations against
reputable society that no part of the coun-
try between the western ranges and the
strip of coast lying between Broken Bay and
the Five Islands (now Wollongong) was free
from the terror of their raids. They would
■stick up a homestead to-day, and be heard of
on the morrow at a point fifty or sixty miles
across the roughest and most difficult terrain.
Surprise and swift travelling were the
characteristics of their tactics, and their
trategy was bewildering. For nearly four
ears they continued their depredations,
which were only at length terminated by the
lucky shot of a soldier in the Cowpastures,
when the bold Donakoe received a bullet in
the head that gave him his quietus.
On the occasion in question I had been
visiting Camden Park, the estate of Mr.
John Macarthur, for the purpose of pur-
chasing some merino rams to send out to my
station on the Macquarie River, where 1
was commencing sheep-breeding and was
already depasturing several flocks of ewes
and wethers. The business being concluded,
I had decided to return by way of Mulgoa
and Regentville to my home at Castle Hill.
I was desirous of seeing for myself the
extensive vineyards to the inspection of which
the worthy knight Sir John Jamison had
several times invited me. Also, I had some
acquaintance with a very beautiful creature
who resided in those parts, her husband being
a superintendent at the prisoners’ stockade
at Emu Plains and frequently away from
home, and I considered that I might combine
the study of viticulture with a little of that
diversion so stimulating to a busy man. I
would pay a visit, as it were, to the shrines
of Bacchus and Venus. Unfortunately, that
sandy-headed Irish whelp Donahoe made
interference with these agreeable plans.
It was about high noon, and the day was
very hot, as I rode slowly along a bush
bridle-path at no great distance from the
Nepean River, wherein I proposed, ere eat-
ing the provision for a midday meal that I
carried in my saddle-bag. to refresh myself
with a cooling swim. My horse was ambling
quietly down the dusty track, which was
thereabout agreeably shaded by tall and
umbrageous trees, and I was thinking with
delight of my forthcoming encounter with
pretty Mary (she is a most respectable
woman, so I shall be discreet), when, sud-
denly, a fellow stepped out of the scrub
growing at the foot of the trees, a few yards
ahead of me, presented a double-barrelled
fowling-piece at my head, and called upon
me to halt in very unnecessary and heated
language.
“Bail up, ye big Dutch —- —!’* he said,
reflecting upon my mother’s honor in a fashion
deplorably rife in the colony. “Slitand an’
deliver, me big Bar’ll, or ’twill be th’ warse
for ye !” The scoundrel evidently knew me, and
from his appearance I immediately concluded
—which was, indeed, the fact—that this was
John Donahoe.
The long experience of warfare which has
fallen to my lot, and constant association
with men of valorous instinct, have not, I
opine, developed in me such a slavish dread of
sudden death that I may in any way reproach
myself with cowardice, but, at the same time,
the many dangers I have faced and over-
come have convinced me that to be rash is
not to be manly, and that to fail to acknow-
ledge a hopeless situation is folly. Here was
the most bloodthirsty bushranger in the
colony aiming both barrels of a gun that
was, no doubt, loaded with buckshot, at my
head. The slightest movement towards
snatching one of the pistols in my holsters
from its resting-place would have been fatal.
So I resigned myself to an unpleasant situa-
tion, tightened my reins, and brought my
horse to a standstill. I had no chance.
“Well, then,” I said mildly, and with as
much of conciliation as I could impart to
my tone of voice. “Pray, what is the matter,
and what do you want, Mr. Donahoe? I
am at your service.”
"Av coorse ye’re at me sarvice, me bucko,”
the little ruffian replied, with an impudent
grin—“an’ this charge o’ shot’s at yours.
Out o' th’ saddle wid ye now. I want a
worrud wid ye. Ye’ll come to no harrum.
Come on, b’ys, an’ take his liarse. And
you, Walmsey, tie th’ gintleman’s hands
behind his back. He’s too big a fellie for to lave
loose. Now, Har’n, shift y’silf lively, now !”
The determined look in the little man’s
pleasant face left me no doubt that implicit
obedience was my only resource, so I dis-
mounted, and allowed myself to be secured by
one of two other armed marauders who
emerged from the bush by the wayside. It
Avas an undignified proceeding I had to
submit to, but there was no help for it. Pos-
sibly. I might succeed in turning the tables
somehow; but this could never be done by
one whose head had been shattered by a
handful of buckshot.
“Bring him along.” commanded Donahoe,
and one of the blackguards kicked me in the
backside, and pushed me before him into the
timber. The other led my horse. For a
mile or more they conducted me through the
forest, until at last we came to a clearing
in which stood a slab hut that Avas roofed
with sheets of bark held in position by
pegged saplings. On the edge of this open
glade in the forest Donahoe bade me halt,
lie sat upon a fallen log and addressed me,
and from the mildness of his demeanor, the
gentleness of his discourse, and the pleasant
look in his face I found it hard to believe
he was the savage little devil I knew him to
be.
“Faith,” he said, eyeing me with a grin,
“they do be tellin’ me ’tis y’silf’s tli’ diver
wan wid th’ knife, Bar’n?”
“How, then? What do you mean?” I
replied, somcAvliat mystified by his question.
“Oh, I heard tell arl about it—how ye
cut open Phil Naylan’s she-goat wliat’d ate
his jacket, an’ it wid th’ banknotes in th’
pocket of it. Down at Mulgrave, wasn’t it?
An’ d’ye think ye cud be afther doin’ th’
same wid a human, now, Bar’n? We’ve a
job for ye, if ’tis so.”
I recollected the incident he referred to
Avell enough—how I had come to Naylan’s
farm over by South Creek and found the
people there full of lamentation and misgiv-
ing because a nannygoat, a pet, had come
into the house and browsed upon Phil’s best
tailcoat, in which was a letter from home
containing three £5 Bank of England notes,
and boAv I had come to the rescue by shoot-
ing the goat, opening it up Avith a carving-
knife, and finding in its stomach, little the
worse for the adventure, the envelope con-
taining the money. I nodded to inform him
that I remembered the incident, and he went
on. His next statement filled me with
the liveliest astonishment.
“There’s a fellie in there," he said, nodding
in the direction of the hut, “who’s swallied
a di’mond. We want ye for to cut it out
av 'in. Not a wan av us knows th’ laste
thing about th’ run av a man’s guts, so we
don’t, an’ ’tis obliged we’d be. Bar’ll, if ye
was to go Ink for tli’ di’mond. If ye find
it, well an’ good. We’ll let ye ride off. -But” —
and the little monster levelled his gun at rny
head —“if ye don’t. I’ll blow y’r brains
out —so there, now!”
“But, my God, Dona hoe,” I said, a little
perturbed, “I know nothing about surgery.
I cannot operate on a man with such skill
as to find so small a thing as a diamond
hidden away in t|ie complicated processes of
his digestive organs. I’d kill the man, and
I’ve no wish to be a murderer.”
“Och,” he laughed pleasantly, “ye’ve no
nade for to be anxious about that. Bar’ll.
Ye can’t murther th’ man, wliativer ye may
do to him. Ye cud slit his windpipe, or cut
out his heart, an’ ye wouldn’t be afther
murthering him. Walmsey there, lie’s got a
knife’s as sharp as a razor; so. sail in, me
bould Bar’ll, an' good luck to ye.”
“But I tell you it will kill the man,
Donahoe. It will be pure murder!” He
grew suddenly very angry, and rose to his
feet, threatening me with the gun in a
most unpleasant manner that was quite in
contrast with his former demeanor.
“In there wid ye now, an’ not another
worrud from ye. Ye can’t murther ’in, I
tell ye !”
“But why?” I protested, in spite of the
risk from the little man’s evil temper. “Why
can’t I murder him?”
“Because, damn y’r eyes an’ sowl, I’ve
murthered him already. Th’ fellie’s as dead
as be damned, and ye cud cut him in bits
widout doin’ him tli’ laste liarrum. Now,
will ye get busy, I ask ye? .Give him y’r
knife, Walmsey, and untie his hands. In
there wid ye, now, me big Dutch earr’on,
or I'll blow y’r blashted head off av y’r
shouldhers. Not another worrud. Git busy,
damn ye!”
His companion, Walmsey, came behind me
and untied my wrists. He then drew a for-
midable knife from a sheath attached to his
belt, and put it in my hand. Mechanically
I advanced to the hut, my brain in a whirl
at the strange situation.
Donahoe then instructed the third man, a
villain named Webber, to remain on guard
over me, and see that I carried out my
revolting task, whilst he and Walmsey went
to look for the packliorse, which had strayed
from their present headquarters. But I
begged him to acquaint me before he went
with what had happened to the cadaver they
wished me to dissect, pointing out that I
could hardly hope to find the missing jewel
unless I knew how long the dead man had
had it in him. Although impatient of delay
the Irish brigand took my point, and ex-
plained the situation —which was really
what I wanted. I had hopes, whilst his
comrades were absent, of fittingly dealing
with the man Webber, who was to super-
intend my incursion into the realms of
anatomy.
It seemed that the deceased gentleman in-
side the hut had been one of Donalioe’s
(Continued on next page.)


RISERS
ff
THE
SELF-STROPPING
RAZOR
A Valet razor is
always ready—just as it
is. Blade in place for strop-
ping—for cleaning. Always sharp-
stropped in ten seconds-cleaned in two.
Nothing to fix. Nothing to adjust Scrap
the early-rising habit-use a Valet. Sets
trcm 4/6 to 67/6 each. You never need
remove the blade except to change rt-
once in about sixty perfect shaves. All
high-class dealers sell Valet razors and
blades and their essential adjunct
Auto Strop Shaving Cream.
NEED A
VALET
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
PHIPSON
BRITISH MADE
Agents for Australia :
it COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE
STREET, SYDNEY
FI JI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October and 10th December
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November and 7th January
EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu, Rarotonga and Tahiti.
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
dd
Now in its 90th Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
PULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Obtainable from
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
company —a recently-joined recruit, who had
escaped • from the Emu Plains stockad ,
named Michael Brannigan.
“Sure,"’ said my truculent little captor
with an oath; “there was nothmg dacint
about him but his name. A grinnin, laugh-
in’ omadhaun that cud niver be sayrous to
no great thrust in him from th’ shtart. He s
a sight better dead!”
They had waylaid a gentleman travelling
in a gig along the ,Cowpastures-road, had
robbed him, and left him and his servant tied
un to trees in the bush in a state of nudity
—a pleasantry to his victims often indulged
in by this amiable little fellow. Amongst
the spoil was a valuable ring, set with a
single large diamond, which had been torn
from the traveller’s finger.
While discussing the day’s work at this
place in the evening, the late Mr. Brannigan
had stated that he knew a Jew m Sydney
who would be likely to give them a good
price for the jewel, but had urged that it
should be detached from its setting in the
ring, the better to conceal its identity. I hey
assented to this, and it was agreed that.
Micky Brannigan should proceed cautiously
to town, find out the receiver of stolen pro-
perty and make the best bargain he could.
So the diamond was removed from its set-
ting, and Brannigan prepared himself for
his journey to Port Jackson.
When he was ready to depart Donahoe
asked him how he proposed to carry the
diamond, and Brannigan announced that it
would be quite safe, for he had swallowed
it. This announcement simply infuriated
Donahoe, who immediately, in an outburst
of his fiendish temper, clubbed his gun and
knocked his compatriot on the head lo
all appearances, tlie fearful blow caused tlie
death of Brannigan, and then their discus-
sion centred upon the best means of recov-
ering the treasure buried in his body. Ifiey
put the corpse on the table in the hut and
camped outside for the night. In the morn-
ing they had not yet arrived at a solution
of their problem, but could not reconcile
themselves to abandoning the well-hidden
jewel. Walmsey was sent away scouting
against surprise, whilst Donahoe and Webber
remained with the dead man —who was appa-
rently as dead as ever —still arguing as to
the best, way of disembodying the diamond.
In the meantime, Walmsey, sheltered m tlie
forest from observation, had perceived me,
and had followed me stealthily until close
to the hut, .when he gave one of the biro-
calls employed in their code of bush signal-
ling, and my capture had speedily followed.
I brad been immediately recognised,_ and,
remembering my mucli-talked-of operation on
the goat which had swallowed the bank-
notes, Donahoe had joyfully hailed my advent
as a piece of good luck, and they had decided
that I should perform a similar post-mortem
feat upon the remains of Micky Brannigan
with a view to the recovery of the missing
jewel. That was the story told by Donahoe,
and bidding me begin my gruesome task,
with frightful menaces of what would happen
if I failed to find the diamond, the littte
ruffian departed with Walmsey m quest ol
the missing packhouse. So there I was with
the blackguard Webber and the dead man
in the hut. , ,
“Get to it!” said my ill-looking guardian.
“I’ve a weak stomach, and I’ll stay outside.
You can do the dirty job yourself. Make
a start now, and it’ll be the best for you.
Jack’s a hasty devil.” ,
Ruefully I recognised that perhaps I had
better make a beginning of my abominable
task, as Webber had advised. So I went
into the hut with the knife in my hand and
surveyed the corpse, whilst Webber strolled
about outside, his musket in the crook ot
his arm. , . ,
The dead man’s matted hair was caked
with dried blood, which had run all over
his pale face, so that he looked ghastly iu
the extreme. He had been stripped_ naked,
and lay on the rough slabs composing the
table, a sufficiently horrible object. I de-
cided that I had better begin by slitting open
his abdomen, and advanced towards him
with the knife.ready for this purpose. The
dead man’s eyes were wide open, and quite
bright—not at all like those of any other
corpse I had ever seen. To my astonish-
ment, as I stooped over him, looking for a
place to make my first cut, one of them
winked at me!
“Whist!" whispered the corpse, grinning
cheerfully. I started back, almost dropping
my implement in my natural amazement.
“ For th' love o' God, hope quiet!’ hissed
Brannigan. “ ’Tis not dead I am at all.
thin. I’ve but been playing ’possum —gam-
moning. Get holt of Webber, kill th’ - >
an’ we’ll get away from here afoor th others
come back. For th’ love av Iliven, hurry
That little divil won’t be long away. Knock
that outside on the head if ye can.
I glanced through the door and saw
Webber sitting on a stump with Ins back to
the hut. So I Picked up a half-burnt billet
of wood from the fireplace, stole softly out-
side. the grinning corpse leaning on an elbow
to watch me, and felled Mr. W ebber with
a fearful blow on the head from behind.
With a delighted, though subdued. “ Hurroo!
the naked man immediately resurrected him-
self from the dead, leaped through the door
and flung his arms about me, his ghastly,
blood-smeared features contorted with de-
light. He. capered joyfully and grotesquely
in his delight. . , .
“Praise Mary!” he cried. “We’ll chate
th’ little divil yet! Th’ hor-rses—quick as
be damned! Let the others go. Hurroo,
Brannigan !” he yelled with delight. In
dir-rty spalpeen—we’ll diddle him yet.
I needed no urging, and ran to my horse.
The “dead man” vaulted into Donahoe s
saddle, after cutting the reins of the others
with the knife which had so nearly searched
his anatomy, and we plunged into the bush
in the direction of the track I had been fol-
lowing when captured. As we became in-
visible from the neighborhood of the hut, 1
heard a wild yell of rage behind us and re-
cognised that Donahoe had returned from his
search for the missing packhorse. Then fol-
lowed a shot —and then another, as he dis-
charged the two barrels of his fowling-piece
after us.
“Good-bye to ye, Jack!’’shouted the cheer-
ful, naked “corpse. May th Dryil fly
nwav wid ve ’ Ive got th dimond!
We rode as though fiends were after us
along the track in the direction whence I
had come that morning, and m , the h c ° ur „® ° f .
an hour or so had arrived at a hut occu
Died by one of Mr. Macarthur’s stockmen.
Here we drew rein and dismounted, con
sidering that we had fairly outdistanced our
pursuers, who would doubtless have expended
considerable time in finding their horses to
sav nothing of attending the injuries of the
unfortunate Mr. Webber, who I sincerely
hoped had departed this life as a result of
the very powerful blow on the head I ha
dealt him. However, he lived to be handed
in the following year, subsequently to the
affray with the soldiery m which Donahoe
perished. I bespoke some clothing from Mr.
Macarthur’s servant, paying him liberally,
wherewith to cover my companion s naked-
ness, and then we rode on to Camden 1 ark.
The stockman came with us, for, as lie very
sapiently observed, he would not like to
meet Jack Donahoe that morning.
Neither Mr. Macarthur nor I could con-
vince Michael Brannigan that having the
diamond in his interior did not give him an
absolute title to it for all time. We reasoned
with him unavailingly for more than an
hour, pointing out that it was his bounden
duty to restore the jewel to its rightful
oW n e r—who, Mr. Macarthur informed me,
was a certain Dr. Forsyth, who had yester-
day reported the robbery to him as a justice
of' the peace. Should the diamond emerge
from his body, we informed our grinning
hero, he must surrender it to Mr. Macarthur
immediately as an officer of the law-
doubt he would be suitably rewarded by the
gentleman whose property it was when it
had been restored to his possession and. 1
promised to intercede with the authorities
on his behalf so as to procure lnni a free
pardon on account of his gallant efforts in
assisting my escape from the bushrangers.
“Aw now, gintlemin. gintlemin, ye’ll not
be deludherin’ a poor simple fellie like mesilf
wid such a yarrun as that, so ye won t. Sure
th’ shtonc’s inside me, an’ is become par-rt
of mesilf. Therefore ’tis my own proputty,
an’ nobody cud say ‘nay’ to that. ’Tis sur-
prised I am that two such illigant gintlemin
like y’silf. Bar’ll, an’ his Worship Misther
Macarthur would be afther thryin’ for to
do th’ like o’ that. I mek no doubt tis but
y’r fun. Sure, ye. must know s
always reckoned nine-tinths o’ th’ law an
if I ain’t in possission o’ that jool I dunno
who is, I don’t.” ,
Puzzled what to do, Mr. Macarthur and
I walked for a while in the garden discuss-
ing the matter. And then. I was given an
opportunity of seeing the kind of man John
Macarthur was. It was utterly against his
nature to allow any man to get the better
of him. He summoned a servant and directed
him to bring to him there a person whom
he referred to as “Big Larry.” Presently
an enormous giant of a man appeared and
desired his honor’s orders.
“Larry,” he said, “I want you to go round
to the back of the house, where you 11 find
an Irishman who is highly amused ,
himself. You will seize him at once _
take him to that empty room in the sz -
next to the harness-room. Keep hi
prisoner there, and I will myself
hand you a bottle of castor oil, to & , t
with further instructions. Come, haro » -
us go inside. I think we may safely Jea%e
the affair in the hands of Cod, aided y
Laurence Hall and that invaluable laxa
The Fevered Look.
But yesterday she looked at me like one
Of God’s young angels from a tower oU g »
Whose eyes may see far restless sou s
But cannot understand the thoughts that
Through tangled webs the throbbing hours
have spun . , .
About the groping hands and broken si B ,
Straining for things unknown upon me
Of delicate Heaven, white-walled above the
sun.
That strange far look to me was keenest
pain, . .
For fever burned beneath the seeming calm,
And all the mystery of life and death
Teased me with thoughts that other thoug s
made vain. , ,
But with her morning laughter came „ieat
Of earth’s dear folly on a wayward breath.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Piper.
Making music, strangely winsome,
Music wondrous, music gay,
Up and down the coast a piper,
Shadows lifting, pipes to-day.
Who is he. this strange musician,
Piping through the fleeting hours,
Piping unto dancing children,
Dancing wavelets, leaves and flowers/
Hies he hither from some far land,
From some happy Isle of Dreams —
Wood-notes, wave-notes, wind-notes weaving
Into sweet, compelling themes?
Ask the wavelets rising, falling,
’ Ask the children in their mirth,
Ask the flowers upon the hillsides,
And they’d name him Joy of Earth.
Never was there man-made music
Heard in hut or castle hall,
Played to prince or played to peasant,
Like to his, so magical!
Could I hut his magic borrow
For a little, little while,
I would set the whole world dancing,
And hearts, sad and sore, beguile.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


DONT GROPE IN DARKNESS
The veil of ignorance has been lifted
AT LAST YOU CAN BUY THE WONDER BOOK
“SAFE COUNSEL"
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emyna F. A. Drake.
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in bitter tears
and years of regret? Must millions of homes be ruined—marriages totter
to the brink of divorce? YES—just as long as men and women remain
ignorant of the simple facts of life.
The Greatest Sin of all is total IGNORANCE of the most important subjects
in the life of every man and woman.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY
Let us face the facts of life fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear
the veil of shame and mystery from life and build the future of the race on a new know-
ledge of all the facts of life as they are laid bare in plain, wholesome words and frank
pictures in the huge new book entitled “Safe Counsel," which contains—
mm
FOR MEN AND
WOMEN; AND
OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS.
This volume abounds in truthful illustrations and pictures of scientific interest that one seldom, if ever,
finds outside of the highly-technical medical books which laymen fail to understand. Every picture is
true to life. * *
IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED,
CAN YOU ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS?
ARE YOU FIT TO MARRY? DO YOU KNOW HOW TO CHOOSE A MATE 7
DO YOU WISH YOUR MARRIAGE TO BE HAPPY? DO YOU KNOW THE
PERILS OF BEING UNPREPARED? “SAFE COUNSEL” answers all these questions
—and more!
Mf n y » marriage has been wrecked on the shoals of ignorance. Many a beautiful love has been
killed by carelessness and a lack of frankness. Are you going to take the chance that your mar-
riage will be one of the unhappy ones?
This book contains good, sound advice to those contemplating matrimony and those already married.
It tells you how to prepare for marriage, and how to insure your future happiness. Intimate details
or a successful wedded life are fully explained.
DON’T DELAY
ORDER TO-DAY
e time by filling in this form and posting
ogether with money order, cheque, bank
note or postal note for £l,
NEW ZEALAND READERS and those in
British Possessions and Colonies, send your
own bank note by registered mail, if possible.
LONDON BOOK CO., Ltd.,
Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney.
Enclosed is p.n. for £l, for which send me, by
Registered Mail, one copy of “Safe Counsel.”
NAME
STREET
TOWN
STATE
N.B.—Use Block Letters or write plainly.
It*
b
'-r
r
CQ
OR
i^mn
V
?
“SAFE COUNSEL”
WILL TELL YOU
EVERYTHING A WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
How to hold a husband: how to preserve
youth; warding off other women; keep-
ing yourself attractive; why husbands
tire of wives; dreadful diseases due to
ignorance; diseases of children; family
health guide; change of life —hygiene;
why children die young; inherited traits
and diseases; what will you tell your
growing girl?; hundreds of valuable
remedies.
GIRLS, DO NOT MARRY
BEFORE YOU READ
“SAFE COUNSEL"
It will save you from Life’s pitfalls
and disasters.
SECRETS FOR MEN
Mistakes of early marriages; secrets
of fascination; bringing up healthy
children; fevers and contagious dis-
eases ; accidents and emergencies :
hygiene in the home; how to care
for invalids; warning to young men ;
dangerous diseases; anatomy and phy-
siology ; the reproductive organs;
education of the family.
KEEPING FIT
Glorious, radiant health to those who want it. It is yours
—if you are willing: to work for it. There is nothing- in
life more valuable. It is worth more than a fortune. The
world’s richest man is poor if he lacks health.
lon cannot buy health. Drug stores do not keep it. No
medicine of any kind can give it to you. It comes only
with the knowledge and practise of proiier living. You
•mist know the laws of life. When and how to eat. How
to exercise.
KEEPING FIT,” by Bernarr Macfadden, is a complete
introduction to the study of proper living. It not only
gives full instruction in exercise, eating, breathing, etc.,
hut also devotes numerous chapters to common-sense treat-
ment of such troubles as asthma, constipation, heart dis-
ease, diabetes, nerves, tuberculosis, and many others.
Cloth bound, illustrated, 22(1 pages, exercise chart.
PRICE 10/-
f
BOOK
BARGAINS
War, Women
and Wine
The greatest war hook ever
written. By Wilfred Saint-
Mo nde.
Price (including postage), 15/-
Practical
Birth Control
Tlie best book of all.
Price 2/- includes postage.
LOVE
By Elinor Glyn
3/6 includes postage.
NOT SO QUIET Free!
“NOT SO QUIET/’ on the Western Front, the amazing- War book
will be given away absolutely free to all who send for any of
the following books and mention “The Bulletin.” N.B. —Only
one copy with each order: “MADEMOISELLE DE MAUPIN/’ by
Theophile Gautier. Translated from the French. Price, 4/-. “A
PASSION OF THE SOUTH,” by Alphonse Daudet. Trans-
lated from the French. Price, 4/-. “A MODERN MAN’S CON-
FESSION,” by Alfred and Paul de Musset. Price, 4/-, “THE
RIVAL ACTRESSES,” by Georges Olinet. Price, 4/-. «THE
RED SPIDER,” by S. Baring Gould. Price, 4/-. “DOPE,” by
Sax Rohmer. Price. 4/-. “PARISIAN LOVE,” by L. H. Bren-
ning. Price, 4/-. “TALES OF CHINATOWN.” by Sax Rohmer.
Price, 4/-. “UNFORBIDDEN FRUIT,” by Warner Fabian. Price,
6/-. “WOMEN AND WIVES',” by Harvey Fergusson, Price 4/-.
“THE DWELLER IN THE DESERT,” by Arthur Wei gall. Price,
3/-. “KIMONA,” by John Paris. Japan with the Lid off.
Price, 4/-. The NORMAN LINDSAY edition of “ART IN AUS-
TRALIA,” containing over thirty studies by the greatest artist
of our time. Price, 10/-. “LADY OF LIES,” by Paul Bourget.
Price, 4/-. “A WOMAN’S SOUL,” by Guy <’ Maupassant. Price,
4/-. “HELL’S PLAYGROUND,” by Ida '. Simonton. Price,
<!/-. We pay postage on all books.
all the above
ONLY OBTAINABLE
Send Postal Notes with orders.
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
N.Z. Readers send Bank Notes.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from ...
for which I enclose £...
NAME
address
RATES: Australia— l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas 12 months, 30/*; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
v>
yf
A\P'W
T>
r>
o
0°
s 6
»
tve* 1
s e,r^ e
.. • * .• • * .• * * ■4°?’’’
• ■ AIV I vo°
.••- .. <£V v v^V
C*


Healthy Nerves
An enthusiastic
Sanatogen user—
one of the many thousands of grate-
ful people to whom a course cf
Sanatogen meant the end of theii
nerve-troubles and a return to Health
and Strength—
writes as follows
“ There is nothing like
Sanatogen. Step by
step it pieces the
nerves together. It pro-
motes soothing sleep,
stops palpitation and
puts new life into one.”
MRS. C. TOOTELL,
NOTTINGHAM.
While another writes:
“To me it seems al-
most like a miracle. I
could not have be-
lieved Sanatogen could
do so much good in
such a short time.”
MISS I. STANSFIELD,
SALOP.
SANATOGEN will do yon good. It will do
good to the whole of your family. Sanatogen
builds healthy, happy home life by
conquering nervousness and fatigue.
CENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
y/i
z +
y'M
mm
7
a
??
-A
Wi
*s
%
A,
• .>
SSK
\
Tit'H *
v;
Healthy nerve cell o!
human body, magni-
fied 1,000 times.
Strengthen your nerves
with
The True Tonic-Food
u Sanatogen goes to the very core of well-
being, viz. the cells, and builds these up
into a lasting fabric of health.” In these
few words —~ short and to the point -
a well-known physician describes the
action of Sanatogen. Sanatogen is made
specially to feed the nerves, which in
these modern times are so often subject
to extra strain. The constituents of
Sanatogen—glycerophosphate and
albumin—are the essential building
materials for nerves and muscles.
By going to ihe 44 core” of the complaint,
Sanatogen conquers listlessness,
stomach trouble, sleeplessness, etc., all
of which arise from a common source
—■ nerve weakness.
Over 24,000 physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing. Follow their
advice regain health and strength
by taking Sanatogen.
Ask y our Chemist
for a tin.
A
Sanatogen is an invest •
ment in Good Health-
■A-: . h ■
