

m
m
m
Wm
* -•
mm
STOW
XT:?
mmm
H
H
I'HvIVX
■
v/X
X:.::
•X?
:
XXXXXXXSXxX:
fKVmvfx&i&jmitSitwijMM
77ie Spirit of Tradition
D E WAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
X&e l/ttes (XHL
Vol. 52.—N0. 2687.
Wednesday, August 12, 1931.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/'-\UEt New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
TJ_rSAGHT7
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
FOR ALL AFFECTIONS OF THE
THROAT,CHEST AND LUNGS
HUDSONS
EUMENTHCE
JUJUBES
Recommended by the medical pro-
fession for over 40 years, and uni-
versally regarded as the safest and
most effective safeguard against all
affections of the throat, chest and
lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 119,000 daily sub-
scribers, who demand an accurate and complete
news .service of the world's happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents jn all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
the Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one M etropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highes*
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
find Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by, men, women
' arid children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published ori Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
BIG
IN
SIZE
OUTLOOK
CIRCULATION
The
WESTRALIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY.
Certified circulation means a lot
to national advertisers. The Perth
“Sunday Times” is the only paper,
daily or weekly, to issue certified
figures.
FOR WESTERN COVERAGE
CHOOSE THE LARGEST PAPER
IN THE STATE.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House,
Angel Place. ’Phone: 82323.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
A Journalist Sees Them
At 35 Cecil. Roberts, journalist, lecturer,
war correspondent and one “valuing chiefly
character,” has written a half-way autobio-
graphy and called it after its inspiration Half
Way (Hutchinson; Dymocks; 12s. 6d. net).
It -is rattling good stuff. Roberts got on
the journalistic ladder by working for noth-
ing on the “Nottingham Journal,” where
Barrie, after the “Liverpool Post” had de-
clined his services, made his first splash in
ink. Since then Roberts has made himself
independent with nothing but his fountain-
pen, and his flair for character has brought
him a rare harvest of literary and other
personalia. Norman Douglas always re-
minds him of a lion,
with his red face, fierce eyes and shaggy mane....
He is at his best at midnight in an obscure bar in
Florence; but approach warily. Making bores com-
fortable is not one of his pastimes, and, like Mon-
taigne, his range is not suited to the virgin mind.
But in its sweep, ’from the geological to the gyne-
cological, he is unsurpassable.
Of Lawrence, in whose burning eyes, when
he met him, the sentence of death could be
clearly read:—:
What nonsense it is. to maintain that Lawrence
was neglected and belittled !. .. . His first book was
widely acclaimed. From the beginning to the end
of his career he commanded a vast amount of critical
attention. With his pen he achieved the means to
travel the world continuously with a devoted com-
panion, a wife who gave him the greatest assistance
in his work. He was the owner of a ranch, and
his books, considering their nature, found a wide
public on two continents. At no moment, from the
opening of his career, an obscure Notts school -
teacher, the son of a miner, to the end, a writer
of international fame, did he suffer neglect. The
attention he received from the public authorities w r as
stupid, but even that increased his renown.
Swimming one day, Roberts was “astonished
to see emerging from the- water one of Jhe
best-known heads in the world.” •
Hastily I gasped, “You are Shaw!” Whereupon,
in a flash, came the reply, “Young man, I am never
certain of anything.”
Perhaps the most interesting portrait in a
gallery that includes Max 1 Beerbohm,
Conrad, Marie Corelli and many another is
that of Masefield, who, according to this
account, hails from Ledbury, and is there-
fore Herefordshire and not Shropshire,
as is generally accepted. Masefield; as
a youth, was ..sent to H.M.S. Conway,
moored in the Mersey, to be trained as an
officer in the Merchant Service. After
leaving the Conway, Masefield
had only one voyage on a sailing ship, and never
served before the mast. But a brief experience as
an officer on an Atlantic liner gave him all the
technique he wanted for Saltwater Ballads , Mainsail
Haul and The Dauber.... The scene of The Ever-
lasting Mercy and The Widow in the Bye Street is
laid in Ledbury, where one,finds the names of these
poems, “Bye Street,” “Hourend,” “Worcester Walk,”
“Cabbage Walk,” “Dirty Lane,” etc.
Outside the literary, the most interesting
glimpse is of Melba—standing up in a boat
in the Grand Canal singing “in tribute
to the beauty of Venice.”
Clarke’s Northcliffe Diary
There is more of Melba is another
journalist’s book of the moment, Tom
Clarke’s My Northcliffe Diary (Gollancz;
Dymocks; 12s. 6d.). Clarke credits Melba’s
singing over the air on June 15, 1920, with
having started the ball rolling for broadcast-
ing. When in May, 1921, Melba was to give
her au repair concert at. the Albert Hall,
Northcliffe rang Clarke up:—
“I have promised that I will fill the Albert Hall
for her, and we alone can do it. See •to it. I
leave it to you. Use the ‘Daily Mail,’ the ‘Evening-
News’ and the ‘Weekly Dispatch.’ ”
Clarke got the whole “circus” going, and
hundreds were turned away from the con-
cert. I have seen Clarke himself several
times described as an Australian, but the
fact is that he had gone right through the
Northcliffe mill—a pretty grinding one-
before coming here after Northcliffe’s death
in 1922. An early job with Northcliffe
was to go to Fontainebleau to see
Napoleon’s hat. “I have had it on; it fits
me,” said Northcliffe. This sort of thing—
there is a good deal of it—Clarke puts
down to an overgrown boyishness in the
Chief, as they called him. That also is
credited with having caused Northcliffe,
after he had driven Asquith from office, to
order Clarke to publish the “worst pos-
sible pictures” of him, for ordinarily he was
charitable to a defeated foe. Northciiffe’s
opinion of the mass mind is admirably
illustrated in that and other “worst possible
picture” orders. More surprising is the fact
that at the outbreak of war he strongly
opposed the sending of British troops to
France, only the strength of the editor, Mar-
lowe, preventing him from publishing his
opposition. The best newspaper story in a
fine newspaper book is the inside account
of Northciiffe’s
fight against
Kitchener, in the
course of which
Carmelite House
had to be guarded
by a special force
of police, hundreds of abusive letters and
telegrams poured in (one letter containing
the ashes of the “Mail”), the “Times” and
the “Mail” had the honor of being burned at
the Stock Exchange, and the whole North-
cliffe press was banned in the Oxford Union
and in public libraries and clubs. Arnold [
Bennett and A. G. Gardiner were the two
big guns of the opposition. Clarke’s
quietly-presented story of this affair throws
a sharp light on the state of public feeling
early in the war, the mob passion, over-
looked alike by all the scores of retro-
spective war-book writers and by those
who expect such books to block war for ever.
His presentation reveals how normal people,
not the intellectual or neurotic, felt about
it. The best bit of literary personalia is
the story of Hannen Swaffer, an obviously
poor physical specimen, getting marked A 1
for active service by telling the recruiting
doctor that he was Sapdow’s assistant.
Beaverbrook Biography
Beaverbrook, who was•. Northcliffe’s rival
in the later days (“Watch Beaverbrook,”
said the Chief. “He is no fool.”), has been
comparatively poorly served in F. A. Mac-
kenzie’s biography Lord- Beaverbrook (Jar-
rolds; 18s.). There is none of the literary
quality of Clarke’s book nor the character
touches of Roberts’s. But at least there is
a good straightforward record of achieve-
ment—Beaverbrook selling newspapers as a
boy, company director at 25 and millionaire
at 30, then England and, though a
“foreigner,” the winning of a seat, in the
Commons on only 10 days’ notice. He
emerges an altogether more, pleasant person
than Northcliffe; in fact, a bit too good for
the book to leave a lasting impression as
a picture of a man.
An American Jaunt
, E. OE. Somerville, part author of the
Joyous Experiences of an Irish R.M., is the
latest tourist to set down travelling impres-
sions of the United States: The States
Through Irish Eyes (Heinemann; Bs. 6d.
net). After the general noise and jangle
and cocktails of the talkies, her book will
make most feel that she wandered into
Arcadia by mistake. She found that “Pro-
hibition was regarded as a Counsel of Per-
fection, and was treated as such counsels are
wont to be served”; that few dinner parties
failed in champagne and that the supply
of cocktails was equally unfailing. But
her business is with hounds and hunters
(of which she writes as well as ariyone
alive) and the watching..of a spring perform-
ing its wonders in the local gardens and
woods. She has a good supply of a brand
of light humor peculiarly her own, and an
engaging knack of having stories and allu-
sions (chiefly Irish) always neatly to the
point, such as:—
“Hi! Miss! D’ye wakt a thrunk?”
“What’d I want a thrunk for?”
“To put your clothes in. sure!”
“And ye’d have me go naked?”
The difference made by two hundred years
of cultivation in the aspect of Carolina sur-
prises her, but she is at once laughing at
her surprise,-recalling the venerable lady
who, having met one she had not seen since
schooldays, remarked of the encounter,
“Well, forty years do make a difference to
a girl, don’t they?” The writer stays
, Strictly on the surface of the American
Scene, and sees nothing that isn’t lovely.
A restricted but decidedly refreshing view.
Taboo
Ivegan Paul’s admirable To-day and To-
morrow series, the prime best-seller in which
has been Robert Graves’s Lars Porsena, or
the Future of Swearing, now-has another
capital little book touching somewhat on
that topic— lt Isn't Done, by Archibald
Lyall (2s. 6d. net). One small paragraph
gives the manner of it:—
It may seem an age ago, but in reality it is not
so very long since Mr. George Bernard Shaw scan-
dalised the world by staging “Pygmalion,” the first
play which contained the word .“bloody,” and justly
earned thereby the title of the founder of the .con-
temporary theatre.
It is a healthy bit of laughing at the
Pecksniffs and‘all their tribe.
RED PAGE.
Candor and Cant
Candor is so much not a, matter of gen-
eralisation that one is’ tempted to ask of
Hattie Knight’s Candor and Cant (Robert-
son and Mullens; 55.) : which is the candor
and which is the cant? The author invites
this line ol criticism by (1) pouring her
burning contempt upon “glib generalisa-
tions”; (2) calling upon the high priests
of criticism to be more resolute; (3) gen-
eralising with resolute consistency through
the 80 pages of her book.
But because ait. is so precious and so difficult of
comprehension by the great mass of the people, its
high priests and a'tar servants should play very
fair and abstain resolutely from monkeying with it.
The priest is there to interpret the divine revela-
tions to the multitude.. And when he plays the fool
and tricks and bewilders the faithful with mysteries,
hocus-pocus, shibboleths, incantations and a great
flood of “gyver” he is blaspheming and is faithless
to his trust.
Maybe all that is platitudinously true'
enough, but coming from one who professes
to believe that what Australian art and
literature most need is candid criticism, it
seems to ring rather hollow. Personally,
é


ê
Anthony
S-cdA
40/- Set of 5 Saucepans Now 2916
IL=
Sets of 5 extra-heavy Alumi-
nium Saucepans. Well
polished, fitted with solid brass
handles, and bar grips on
covers. Saucepans that will
last a lifetime. Buy now and
save 10/6 on the set. Sizes
1 \ to 7 pints.
Price, per set 40/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 29/6
ë
ē
ĕ
;The\NWVOVI”RoaiV«r'A
Cconom%*&' •••-
VE
mninii'H lliw
1/11 Tin Roasters at
A special purchase enables
us to make this exceptional
offer. “Willow” tin-covered
Roasters, size 1 1 x 9in.
1/6
Roasts and bakes everything evenly and
thoroughly.
Price 1/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 1/6
T 9
m
7/9 Double Saucepans
Super, finish Aluminium
Double Saucepans, extra
heavy quality, cut edge,
fitted with strong oxi-
5/11
dised steel handles and cool grip. Stabalite
bar on covers.
Price! 7/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 5/11
5/6 Table Lamps
»B
0
Glass Table Lamps,
fitted with B burner.
3in. chimney.
Price 5/6
Anthony
Horderns’
Sale Price .... 4/6
USE OUR D.P.S.
First select the goods you require, leave
a deposit on them, pay off the balance
in instalments and the purchase rs yours.
You pay no extra.
n
w
Hill*
/
bSEKIE
y
\WV
«<•
1
%S) povf
*
MOP HANDLES, sd. EXTRA.
Unique Polishing Outfit Offer
The outfit includes the latest slip-on model Paragon Polishing Mop,
which can be removed from frame for washing or renewing. (Extra
heads always procurable.) Fully prepared, with polish ready for use.
Price, 3/6, together with one 2/6 pint tin of “John Bull” Liquid Polish.
Ideal for all classes of cleaning where a high-grade floor or furniture
polish is required. Price, 2/6. Price for the outfit 6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, the outfit 2/11
We do not break the outfit. One set only to each customer.
w
lON
ė
Nq2
a&e
493
An 8/6 Fry Pan for 2/6
with every Cooker pur-
chased.
ę
Sydney Waterless Cooker Half Price
All classes of cooking can be done in the “Sydney” Waterless Cooker,
and any type of beat may be used, from a Primus stove to an open fire.
A full set of equipment and book of instructions are supplied with each
cooker.
During the Sale we are offering an 8/6 Fry Pan for 2/6 with every
Cooker purchased. _ ■
Pans can only be supplied at this price in conjunction with Cookers.
No. 1. Price 78/6 Sale Price 39/3
No. 2. Price 98/6 Sale Price 49/3
ě
22/6 Canisters at
Sets of 6 Superior
finish Aluminium Canis-
ters, highly polished.
Labelled Flour, Sugar,
Rice, Tea, Sago, Coffee.
17/6
Price, the set 22/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 17/6
(Household Ironmongery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
3/- Mop & Bucket at
One useful size Galvanised
Bucket, strongly made,
rivetted handle and hoop
rim. Price, 1/9. And one
1/9
white Cotton Mop (head only), which can
be used for water or dry polishing.
Price 1/3
Total Price, the two articles 3/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 1/9
Mop handles sd. extra.
« *
. •
m
3/6 Colanders Now
Aluminium Colanders,
polished, sturdy quality, with
extra strong base, two side
handles firmly attached.
2/9
Sizes, inches 8
Prices 3/6 4/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 2/9 3/3
5/- Slicer Now at
The “Astor” Fruit and
Vegetable Slicer for cut-
ting fruit, etc., in dainty
effects. Price . . 5/-
2(11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 2/11
6/- Hot Water Bottles
Aluminium Hot Water
Bottles, fitted screw cap,
which is absolutely water-
2/6
tight. Price ........ 6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . .
. . 2/6
e
ANTHONY HORDERN 8C SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
è


■)
ere s
m
at
fine quality and good
ke New Chevrolet
a reasona
hi
price
• ®
E
you liave an eye for smart
lines and karmonisinsr coL
armomsmg colors
—if you enjoy tke feel of
smootk, six-cylinder power—if
you like restrained luxury——
tken see tke New Ck evro let!
You will ke surprised tkat
so muck motor car value is of-
fered at so modest a price. And,
m tke keautiful kodies ky Hoi-
den, tkere is not only ample
room kut kig car comfc
'ig car comlort too.
A touck of tke linger steers
tkis car, skifts tke gears. A
touck of a pedal releases a flood
of power, or actuates large
powerful four-wkeel krakes.
Tk ese New Ck evrolets
akound m features usuall
found onky on ki
usually
only on Digger, more ex-
pensive cars . . . tkere s unusual
comfort, an air of cosiness and
quiet good taste in all models.
A small down payment
under tke friendly G.jMLA.C*
plan puts one at your service.
Your Ckevrolet Dealer will
gladly give you details, and
also explain Ckevrolet s likeral
Owner Service Policy. Built
ky General jMlotors-Holden s
Ltd. Bnskane, Sydney,
Melk ourne, Adelaide, Pertk,
1
i
n
u
A
*=JJ
fcjfi
I
I
37
£3
37
r
&
©
33
The JM ew Chevrolet finds a ready welcome at the smartest homes everywhere
DEALERS IN ALL MAIN CENTRES
PRICES START AT £247.
ALL MODELS EQUIPPED WITH
WIRE WHEELS
e


* ■ > V ”''
m
■
#
/
■mss
W
Big Foreign Trade Meeting
in Hawaii, May, 1932
BUSINESSMEN, Buyers and Executives of Australia should mate
their plans now to attend the big National Foreign Trade Conven-
tion at Honolulu next year. Hawaii is already arranging a special
welcome and entertainment for those who attend. Honolulu has been
selected as the central location for business leaders of the whole Pacific
area, to gather and discuss and transact trade to their mutual benefit.
Leaders of American industry have indicated their intention to be
present, and it is expected that other countries will have distinguished
representatives at the meetings, May 4th, sth and 6th, 1932. It is
hoped that leaders in Australia will take full advantage of this oppor-
tunity to attend the greatest meeting on International Commerce ever
held in the Pacific area—open to all who care to register as delegates.
Following the trade meeting in Hawaii, another is being called in San
Francisco by the Chamber of Commerce. In addition, the Fourth
Pacific Rotary Conference will meet in Hawaii, preceding the Rotary
International Convention at Seattle in June of that year.
Special excursion fares available. First-class accommodation from 15/-
per day, including meals.
For further details and any information about the trip to Hawaii, see
your nearest steamship or travel agent, or write for literature direct to
Hawaii
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney^
I consider it the sheerest guff, not only
because it insists on the reader setting up
his own Aunt Sally, but because it permits
any number of readers to set up their indi-
vidual choice in Aunts. I think it a pool soit
of critical brick that admits of being thrown,
according to the reader’s fancy, at the
Streetons and the Blamire Youngs, on the
one side, or the M. G. Skippers and such-
like Meldrum disciples, on the other. An
art critic cannot, like a critic of litera-
ture, bring examples of what he favors on to
the page, so that the reader may possibly
judge his merit by his preferences. But
he can at least say what he favors and
why, and not merely that some Australian
art is good and some bad, or that the men
who count in art in Australia to-day are
sincere, gifted painters for the most part,
or (to put my whole objection to this
sort of generalisation in its perpetrator’s
own nutshell) that there are some who go
on “uttering commonplace truths and hack-
neyed platitudes as though they were their
own invention,” and fail “to act up to their
own words.”
The fact is that this author insists upon
other writers resolutely doing what she her-
self, with an enviable opportunity, reso-
lutely refrains from doing. She says:—
We cannot afford at such a time to be cluttered
up and hindered with any insincerities.
And:—
Our only hope, if our presence in the company of
the older immortals is to be dignified and beyond any
possibility of ridicule, in this time of crisis is for
the few who have some power in their hands: to be as
brutal and frank and terse as a captain in charge
when a disorderly mob threatens to overload the
lifeboats.
The main trouble with that sort of writ-
ing, apart from the obvious suggestion of
the doctor shrinking from his own medicine,
is that from time to time there is criticism
of Australian literature, art, pugilism, horse-
racing and politics that deals neither in
insincerities nor generalities. This gets no
recognition in such generalising; rather the
implication directly is that it never happens.
It is so easy to say that “the wrong persons
have applied themselves to architecture up
to date, as they have for the most part to
literature”; so much more difficult and
revealing to say where and when.
Instead of poets and dreamers, we have facile,
nimble workmen. They have nothing to my. There
is no new thought, no beautiful dream they burn to
express. But, like all snobs, they must quickly
acquire something' and make a showing.
Have we no Katharine Prichard, no M.
Barnard Eldershaw (novelists); no Hugh
McCrae (poet); no Norman Lindsay
(etcher); no Walter Murdoch (essayist),
to stick to the living? Have not any of
these, and sundry more, anything at all
that they- “bum to express,” or even
express to bum? Would you call Lawson
a “facile, nimble workman”? Or Collins,
or Louis ' Stone, or Kendall? I am not
trying to glorify a thing which, God knows,
I personally hold in little enough respect ;
but I would say that one reason why we have
Hattie Knights dismissing the good in a
welter of generalisation is not that we
have “facile, nimble workmen,” but simply
that we have not had them. I should say
that facility and nimbleness are the last
terms to apply to Australian writers. The
very best of them goes down to what we
take to be immortality carrying under his
arm one of the smallest bundles of literary
baggage on record; and the others have even
less bulk than Lawson. If we had had facile,
nimble workmen, we would not be so
despised. Wrongly, of course, but still cer-
tainly, we would be more on a level with the
rest of the world, where, in this as in other
things, noise is the surest ammunition for
winning contemporary fame.
The mainspring of all such essays in criti-
cal generalisation as these of Hattie Knight’s
seems to me to be a supreme and absurd
belief in the creative powers of criticism: the
fallacious idea that critics can make a
country’s literature. Of course, they cannot.
Their function is an altogether different
thing. They may kill what is bad but they
cannot prevent its continuous reappearances,
and they cannot kill it in advance. On the
other hand, genius does its will without their
aid and not infrequently (Keats, Lawrence,
Norman Lindsay, and, perhaps, Hattie
Knight) in direct defiance of their oppo-
sition. Critics are interpreters of service
only when they step out of the muddy way
of generalisation and walk on the concrete.
CECIL MANN.
Crusaders of the Pacific
[The writer of this article, Rev. J. W.
BurtonM.A., is general secretary of
the Methodist Missionary Society of
Australasia and president of the New
South Wales Methodist Conference .]
Professor Henderson, in his book Fiji and
the Fijians, has rendered conspicuous ser-
vice to all interested in the early histoiy of
Fiji. It is to be regretted that he did not
confine himself to the task for which he is
so eminently fitted, but has allowed theo-
logical prejudices and personal predilections
to mar an otherwise excellent piece of his-
torical work. It is surely the function of
the historian to be purely scientific in spirit
and utterly impartial in his treatment of
facts, and it is unfortunate that through
some curious warp of mind Professor Hen-
derson has just missed writing a really great
book.
Unfortunately M. G. Skipper’s review
(R.P. 15/7/’3l) exaggerates the professor’s
worst faults, and in his dashing general-
isations Mr. Skipper is unconsciously
unfair to a large body of men and women
of undoubted devotion and, in many in-
stances, of rare culture and intellectual
power.
Let it be frankly admitted that mission-
aries, like all other humans, have made
mistakes, and in ignorance have done hurt
when they intended doing only good; but
should it not, in fairness, be remembered
that when these pioneers, to whom Prof.
Henderson refers, commenced their task
there was then no science of anthropology
to guide them? It is only recently that
anthropology has won its place among the
sciences, and to the upbuilding of that struc-
ture of knowledge missionaries have very
largely contributed. It is a tribute to the
sagacity and insight of those earlier mission-
aries that in the absence of such system ised
knowledge they did so little damage to the
extremely delicate social fabric of native
life. To-day the missionary is much more
scientific in spirit and is better equipped,
and some of the best and most construc-
tive work in the Pacific is the result of
missionary enterprise, as competent obser-
vers have been quick to acknowledge.
I cannot think that Mr. Skipper would
desire his “Brown Brotheri’ to be left
to his cannibalism, ignorance and appalling
diseases, and in any case it is now impos-
sible, for the Government, the trader, the
planter and the anthropologist are “trans-
forming the native’s psychology.” One
can scarcely argue that the simple virtues
of Christianity—kindness, generosity, truth-
fulness and honesty—which the missionary
strives to inculcate are likely to injure the
native mind.
As to the cheap and ancient gibe about
clothing, there are one or two things to
remember. In the south-east Pacific, con-
trary to popular ideas, the native has always
worn clothing of some kind, for the climate
demands it. It was mostly made of quickly-
perishable vegetable material, and European
fabrics represent a vast saving of time and
labor. Granted that some few early mis-
sionaries went to excess in regard to cloth-
ing, there has, nevertheless, been evolved
a sensible native costume. Could anyone
suggest a more suitable dress than that
generally worn by the Christianised Fijian
of to-day? In the north-east Pacific the
conditions are different, for clothing is not
required, except in the hills, for warmth, and
the missionary joins with the Government
in discouraging the wearing of the upper
garment. Some lower covering has always
been worn by the majority of these
natives. »
A Satchel of Books
A Guide to Old French Plate, by Louis
Carre (Chapman and Hall; 13s. 6d. net).
An expert’s handbook and a book to engage
almost any collector. There are hundreds
of blocks, and the whole get up is a joy to
look at and the presentation a pleasure to
read.
Annals of Grime, by W. H*. Williamson
(Routledge; 10s. Gd. net). Snappy acounts
of the lives and doings of eleven of the worst
women criminals in cr,ime history. The
breezy treatment makes even the most sordid
of them good reading and any one of them is
a ready-made plot for budding Wallaces.
Four in Family, by Humphrey Parking-
ton (Cliatto and Windus; 7s. Gd. net).
Light, ticklish and often laughable comedy
drawn out of the most ordinary events in
the home life of a pair who marry in 1903,
have four children and come into enough
money to establish themselves in the Eng-
lish country. There is no story, but the
fun is bubbly and continuous.
Lava, by Armine von Tempski (Jarrolds;
7s. 6d. net). Hollywood should rush this
story on to the screen, especially if it has in
hand some shots of a recent volcanic eruption,
not necessarily in Hawaii. A romantic drama
is enacted under the shadow of the volcano of
Hualalai. The crater blows up and provides
an effective background to the story without
fatally incommoding the principal characters.
The author gives a vigorous description of
the eruption, which is either personal obser-
vation or first-hand information.
When the Wind Blows, by Marguerite
Steen (Cassell; Dymocks; 7s. 6d. net). Up
to the time when a lady novelist of the
gasper-smoking variety lands on El Sacredo,
or Calvary, in the South Atlantic, this is
a capital piece of fiction picture-painting.
The primitive community of El Sacredu —
inbred till any dozen of it might pass for
brothei-s, dangerously short of women,
straggling somehow through the storms that
sweep the island—is brilliantly depicted.
The coming of the novelist and a man who
casts covetous eyes on the one young wife
of the place who is at all different from the
rest tends to turn fine realism into melo-
drama, but even so the writer never quite
loses the honesty of the opening chapters,
and completes a novel that is remarkably
good in patches.
India on the Brink, by a British-India
Merchant (King; 3s. net). The author,
Frank E. Rosher, writes to The Bulletin
to inform it that he was closely associated
with Australia in the war when he lent his
offices to the Australian War Contingent
Association. He has certainly found an in-
genious method of making a book. Some
69 of the 122 pages are composed of quota-
tions. They range from extracts from ancient
histories to volcanoes of abuse of the British
raj culled from seditious native newspapers.
This way of painting a picture of India need
not be taken too seriously; nevertheless, it
gives a vivid impression of the complexity
of the problem. The writer comes to the
conventional conclusion that
our one and only course is to strive continuously
to bring into harmony the clashing interests of “a
hundred Indias,” so that each, assured of equal
justice and protection, will march forward with us
in loyal co-operation, and thus hasten the day when,
as an equal partner, a contented, powerful and
united All-India Federation will form one of the
great pillars of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
All English political parties would say
amen to that, but they all disagree as to
how the principles are to be put into execu-
tion.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. Mo liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Burglar B. : No, the halving of wages,
prices, profits, interest, etc., wouldn’t work out like
that, unless you could get foreign people from whom
we buy things to do some halving also Zillonah:
“Farmers don’t want a tariff.” Well, we can hardly
believe they want the competition of Russian wheat
in what ought to be their own market.. .Northerner:
There’s a point, apparently, but it’s lost in a stack
of words W.G.L.: Too light for its length these
days of much matter and little space. .. .8.J.W.:
Yes, no doubt N.S.W. is a wealthy State. All the
same, when Brown, very drunk, calls to ask Mrs.
Smith to let her husband go out with him for an
hour, and guarantees to bring him home sober, who
will blame Mrs. Smith if she moves inside briskly
to get a bucket of water?. . . .Firth O’F.: Quite right;
too long getting there... .D.I-I.: “C'ounter Lunch”
fails to reach the sublimity of its topic. .. .E.C.S.R.:
Anyone can write that sort of thing, but most have
the strength of mind to refrain. .. .H.H.L.: Just a
simple contrast which takes the reader nowhere....
H.D.: “Dreams” has its points, but the thought
is a bit weak.... Damon: Idea not worth much....
Dejay; Poem in 184 lines did hot live up to the
opening: “He was old and worn, one eye was gone.”
.... .C.E.G.: Lines like “And methinks me wandered
through it” give too much evidence of the poet in
the toils T.R.: Those donkeys call for a sharper
whip.... Coust: Capital lines in it; don’t fancy the
thing as a whole M.W.F.: If there’s anything in
Molly worth making a song about you’ve missed
it....El Jadi: No great demand for punful poems.
S.J.M.: Why spend six stanzas saying the girl
of to-day has a will of her own ?. ... 8.5. E.: “This
should fit your market.” Sorry; it only fits the
market basket Surry: Fairly good job, but it’s
not for this address F.W.D.: Better, but still
doesn’t satisfy.... 0.K.F.: No marked improvement
on Mathew.... G.P.D.: All been said far too often.
. ...E.M.: A nice exercise; no more.... J.G.: Ode
in sorrow to the Ma State in sorrow declined....
N.H.0.C.: One reader survived it, but only just. ...
Moa: The whiskers on it are more like Noah....
8.5.: Wretched. .. .J.0.C.: Cries smothered in the
w.p.b.: .. .M.A.S.: Ought to suit Tiny Tots....
Burning Ray: Burning, Ray... .R.W.T.: What’s up
with Nature ? Yours is the tenth “Suniset” in two days.
.. . .P.G.: They don’t give any good excuse for light-
ening the cash-box. .. .G.H.G.: Very well done, but
not arresting enough to insist on print.... Simmo:
Not much wrong with yours, either. It’s simply
the sort of stuff that’s not quite good enough....
Fed U.: Thin as a rasher of wind. .. .P.H.C.: “The
Tree” burnt readily... .Nemo: All miss the mark,
though the shooting’s fair in spqts. . . .A.McD.:
Topical verse is required to say something newer and
brighter than you manage... .E.W.P.: Have another
shot; that one was close. .. W.W.R.: Pretty ancient
yam, that. ...A.T.T.E.: “The enclosure being of a
personal nature may circumscribe the implacable.”
Cripes!. .. .A.H.G.: Steer off Burns and try a tack
of your own. .. .0.U.T.: You have initials like that
and call your poem “Jumbled Effort”! Certificate
for courage A.L.S.: “Prithee, Bully, is this
worth an inch of space?” Ecod, nay, fair scribe!
. ...S.L.K.A. de S.: W.p. da b Sunda: Leave
him to the leader-writers. . . .R.W.S.: Don’t care for
verse of that brand.... Bellerive: A charming spec-
tacle :
THE WHITE GULLS OF TASMANIA.
The white gulls of Tasmania,
Swift, daring and free.
Cluster at dawn to
Skim the wide sea.
Along far-spreading sands
They frolic together.
And wantonly revel
In boisterous weather.
Where the wavelets leap
And roll in and out,
The white gulls of Tasmania,
Merrily glideth about.
{Next: "Only a Card,” a poignant note to end
/ this fine serial.)
. ...Z.V.W.: Tame, and the ending is hackneyed.
. ...C.H.S.: Just above Deadwood Dick 1eve1....
E. : Try reminiscences on a daily... .W.R.CJ.: Too
bald G.G.AL: Reggie wasn’t worth listening to.
F.K.: Willy’s a literary corpse now C. 0.:
Elephantine P.A.S.: Needs to be considerably
stronger.... A.P.R.: “I go, but I return.” Same
with MS C. 5.8 .: Dull R.S.R.: Too much left
unexplained.... G. 8.; You could have got more out
of it....A.M.: Good old novelette plot vulgarised.
... .N.F.: Try some other shop... .F.F.: If you must
try to write bush yarns in the Steele Rudd manner,
don’t pinch Rudd’s characters.... H.M.: Road to
print is too stiff for y0u....J.8.: Breaks no new
ground. .. .A.H.: Not dragging hermit from his
retreat T.S.: Crude J.8.C.: Schoolboyish
W.P.W.: Not adding frog on roof to our gallery
of villains. .. .E.M.H.: The colonel is a bore....
F. : Your night of terror gave us ten minutes of
boredom.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.D.: Subject played out... .W.K.: Penwork too
niggling. ... D.A.A.; An unpromising lot. .. .G.H.S.:
Try to cultivate a more restrained style. .. .C.R.T.:
Weak jest; dreadful drawing. .. .W.G.; Favoritism,
be hanged! Your stuff is rejected because you can’t
draw... .E.A.: Grandchild hras grandmother’s
wrinkles. .. .H.M.D.: No artistic value.—O.J.: A
mouldy antique S.N.H.; Subject too much for
you F.T.G.: Fisherman drawing was immeasur-
ably better done by Leason.. . .E.A.W.; Judging
from samples sent, we will never “come to terms.”
. ...F.J.M.: A B. E. Minns dog joke. .. .L.E.C.:
Could smell the lobster jest before it reached this
office —it’s so stale D.F.8. : No fondness for that
class of humor. .. .J.T.W.; Well, you got the eye-
brows right A. 8.5.: You’ll have to smarten them
up. . . .H.W.T.; Awkwardly handled, and jest at
least 1000 years old.. . .R.0.M.: Strained humor and
shaky penwork... .R.T.L.: Not badly done, but like
too many other conventional pictures of a man and
a woman staring - at one another... .M.M.: Some
merit, but not enough J.S.: A slashing style, but
not a drachm of humor. .. .H.J.T.: Too faint to
face process-engraver’s camera... .R.J.G.; The copper
was an Irishman in the original. .. .C.A.T.; “It
hasn’t been published.” It won’t be W.A.K.;
For heaven’s sake, don’t draw in purple ink!. ...
N. 1.: Try a sketch that doesn’t depend on a weak pun.


e
c
m
■
I m
v *
/
( P
a*
a
■
m
i ■
i
■
.
9 :
*5
■
H
:
.
■y.->
HI
m
m
"
lliililHHll
■
m
-■■■?;
m
/r. '
WSBBm
am
: yi
.
m
K
H
IH
s
BW
-•:
II
.
■
'•: - ;•;
?.v. ■;■ -. y
■■ r*?>.
■:':y : ■:
mi
--
::
Hi :
.-y
V- •• ■
1 1
Mi
■
■ ,:>■•
■
HP
HH
m
■
mm
m
m
m
m
9
.
wm
is
yy
m I
.
HR -
■
:
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Yol. 52. —No. 2687.
August 12, 1931.
THE THINKER, — (With apologies to Rodin).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21), George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 1)7971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 30 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Its.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. 'id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
ARE WE ALL WORTH THE
SAME?
Behind the recent plan of the N. S. Wales
Government to cut down all State em-
ployees to £5OO a year while adding to the
pay of the lower-grade officers was an idea
that the man who sweeps the streets is per-
forming a social service equal to that of the
Judge who lays down the law; that it is as
socially necessary .to have messengers as
Premiers; and that if John Thomas Lang
is Premier it is probably because he has
more intelligence than William Henry
Brown, the messenger, and, as he didn’t give
himself the intelligence, he has no right to
be rewarded for it. Our Russian friends
go further. They say, or said, that the man
who lays the sleepers not only does some-
thing quite as necessary to the building of
the railway line as the engineer who planned
it, but has a more arduous job, getsi more
splinters in his hands and generally has to
put up with rougher conditions. As for the
schoolmaster and the professor and the
rest of the intelligentsia, they have such a
soft life, and have been so well paid for it,
that they have become a menace and must
be ruthlessly suppressed and given no say
in the government. “All power to the
workers! ”
It all sounds very idealistic; and if
human nature was not what it is, the scheme
might work out quite well. But trouble
begins quite early. The bricklayer asks for
something more than the bricklayer’s
laborer gets; he claims that he has know-
ledge and skill beyond the other’s, and not
all the laborer’s protests that his own work
is more toilsome and quite as necessaiy
will shift the bricklayer from his claim.
Nor will the shearer who can put through
200 sheep a day admit that he has no right
to be paid more than the poor workman who
can do only a hundred; quite idle is the
poor workman’s plea that the good work-
man’s fine physique and his tirelessness and
“knack” are things he didn’t give himself
and should not therefore be paid for.
But once we begin to make payments fox-
special knowledge or skill, where shall we
stop? If we are not to be all paid alike —
the loafer and the industrious, the fool and
the genius—on the ground that God made
us all what we are, how shall the worth of
the special knowledge and skill be deter-
mined except by the demand for it? It is
not Alexander MacCormick’s fault that he
has made perhaps ten or twelve thousand
a year. He put his hand in nobody’s pocket:
he simply charged for his operations what
public demand warranted him in charging.
What, however, seems to be at the bottom
of most of the discontent upon which the
Communist feeds is that there is so wide
and deep a gulf fixed between the surgeon’s
possible ten thousand a year and the best
that the bricklayer can command. Here, it
is argued, is the best bricklayer in the
country incapable of making as much as a
very indifferent doctor. Is that right?
Some allowances must be made at once
for the fact that the doctor’s training ate six
years of his life—six years during which he
was not able to earn a penny. But, apart
from that altogether (and this would cer-
tainly not be sufficient to justify the vast
gulf between the earnings of a great sur-
geon and a great bricklayer), it would be
interesting to know whether more surgeons
than bricklayers have earned £lO,OOO a
year. The surgeon only makes his ten thou-
sand a year in very rare cases by ceasing
to be a wages man; and the same oppor-
tunity is open to the bricklayer. The
bricklayer’s wage is not the end of the
section for him any more than the house-
surgeon’s miserable salary is the end of the
section for the doctor.
That the wage-earner on the wage-earner’s
poor pay remains a wage-earner on poor pay
is more often his own choice than any-
body else’s fault. Under ordinary con-
ditions there is not a considerable service
which is not on the constant lookout for
men to whom it can offer promotion in
status and pay. Almost the hardest work
in the big factory is to find suitable men
who will deliberately train for higher posts;
there is hardly one which has not had
bitter disappointments when it has issued
circulars to employees setting out that there
were good jobs as overseers, foremen and
in higher executive offices to be filled, and
inviting applications from those who would
go through the necessary technical course
at the employer’s expense. The Bulletin
is throwing no large, angular brick at work-
men on this account. It can almost be
said that the better the Australian the more
shy he is: certainly the bushman, the very
salt of Australia, is almost the shyest person
in the world. He would rather be hit in the
face than ridiculed; and it does not matter
how great the ass from whom the ridicule
comes. So the rats from the slums of
Europe have made him ashamed of seem-
ing to be “a boss’s man”; wherefore, though
he may loathe the person who is without
ambition and despise the loafer and the
waster, he will not push forward to the
higher places. The wages-ruck gets him for
the rest of his life. Of course, there are
exceptions; and those exceptions make up
the majority of the heads of big businesses
in Australia. The founder of this brick and
pottery co. was a bricklayer; of this motor-
body business, a saddler; of these engineer-
ing works, a blacksmith. This great builder
was a stonemason; that one a carpenter;
and here is a whole group of great station-
owners who were butchers. The casual
worker is no more bound down to his poor
wage than the tradesman is. There are more
rich ex-laborers in Australia than there are
rich lawyers or professors.
If, then, we have got rid of the suggestion
that the way to the larger incomes is open
to one class more than another, the only
question that remains is whether the world
is the better for anyone making more than
a common wage. Here are two men. This one,
without ambition, without industry, has never
given an. hour’s serious thought to a prob-
lem in his life. He has never earned more
than the basic wage, and has never tried
to. He has been in and out of jobs, and
has apparently done indifferently in them
all. A second man, full of ambition and
with plenty of imagination, a student and
an experimenter, has built up out of noth-
ing one of the great businesses of Australia,
employing directly and indirectly a couple
of thousand men, at least 50 of them highly
paid. No doubt to this man the game has
always been greater than the prize; but
what could he have done if there had
been no prize? There certainly would have
been no steadily-growing business; for there
would have been nothing for it to grow
upon. That is the point at which so many
of us seem to go wrong in our reflections.
We read that such-and-such a business paid
£20,000 in dividends; and we assume that
the shareholders soaked it up. In nine cases
out of ten they put most of it back into
either that or some other business. Take
the case of a bank—the Adelaide is first on
the list. In 1910 it had a capital of £400,000.
During the next 18 years dividends total-
ling £1,115,000 were paid. During the same
period no less than £965,000 of new capital
and premium capital was got in. Thus in
18 years only £150,000 more was paid in
dividends than was put back into the busi-
ness and made available for public advances,
etc. Meantime other businesses were grow-
ing up alongside the Bank of Adelaide, and
under its protection—among them Holden’s.
Between 1920, when this was registered, and
1929 the dividends were £528,000. During
the same period £919,000 was added to the
capital; and with premium capital, £469,000
more was put into the business than was
drawn out of it by shareholders.
It is not only a question, then, whether
men will work as well if the reward is
not proportioned to the effort. In most cases
we know they will not. But even where the
spur of reward is not needed, under any
system but our own the men who are best
fitted to make progress for the world would
not have the means to carry their plans
forward.
A PLAIN TALK WITH HIS
EXCELLENCY.
The N. S. Wales Labor party has good
grounds for being dissatisfied with Sir Philip
Game. This is a self-governing country;
and, except in one or two doubtful cases,
the Governor has no right to refuse the
advice of his Ministers if he believes they
have a mandate from the people to do
what they seek to do. As to those doubt-
fid exceptions it might conceivably be the
duty of his Excellency to say “No” to his
Ministers if they proposed to do something
obviously and grossly to the disadvantage
of the other States or of Britain. Yet even
that right is limited. Thus it has been
suggested on high authority that the Gov-
ernor may not stand in the way if the
Parliament of his Dominion declared in
favor even of independence. He might .
require very positive assurance that the
Parliament was carrying out the considered
wishes of the people; he might require the
same assurance that the rights of the Com-
monwealth had been fully taken into
account. But sq great is the authority of
the people that, as long as Ministers have
a definite mandate from them, the
Governor must accept their advice, save, it
may be, in the exceptional circumstances
just mentioned.
From this it seems to follow that, although
a Governor may refuse to accept the advice
of his Ministers on the ground that he is
not satisfied about their mandate, this
action can only be taken if he proposes to
ask them to get a mandate. It is incon-
ceivable that a Governor should say to
his Ministers: “Yes, you have a mandate
to do this and this and this; but I don’t
think you have a mandate to do that and
that. Therefore I shall allow this and this
and this, but disallow that and that, and
you can carry on as if nothing had hap-
pened.” A Governor cannot winnow a pro-
gramme like that. Either they are his
Ministers and entitled to his 'support, or
thejr are not.
Admittedly the question of flooding a
nominee Second Chamber opens up slightly
different ground. The Second Chamber has
a Constitutional status quite as definite as
that of the Assembly. Neither Chamber
is supreme: only the people are supreme.
If, therefore, the Governor is satisfied that
the Council is standing in the way of the
people, there is only one course open to
him. First, he must require proof that this
is no sudden gust of popular desire, but
the people’s well-considered opinion. If he
can be given that proof, it is his plain duty
to bring the Council into conformity with
the people’s will.
The Lang Government’s perfectly just
grievance is that his Excellency is appa-
rently content to retain the present Minis-
ters as his advisers, yet will not accept
their advice. They say they cannot carry
out the legislation which they deem to be
essential and for which they claim to have
a mandate because the Leg. Council
obstructs it. If they have a mandate, and if
it represents the considered opinion of the
people, then his Excellency has no right
whatever to withhold such appointments to
the Council as will enable the people to
govern themselves. But that involves two
things: first, assurance on his Excellency’s
part that his Ministers have the mandate;
second, assurance that it represents the con-
sidered opinion of the people. How is his
Excellency going to get assurance on those
points? How can he get assurance with-
out requiring that his Ministers go to the
people?
These are his Ministers, and if he pro-
poses to retain them as his Ministers they
are entitled to his support. Either, then,
he must accept them as having a mandate
to do all the things they are seeking to do,
and must acknowledge that the mandate
represents the considered will of the people,
in which case he must give them the neces-
sary representation in the Council; or he
must be in doubt as to whether they have
that mandate, and, if they have it, whether
it was properly got, in which case he must
send them to the people. The time has
come to say plainly that by doing neither
of these things his Excellency is gravely
prejudicing our financial and industrial re-
covery; for he is retaining Ministers whose
advice he will not accept and who declare
that they are consequently being stopped
from doing things which they believe to be
essential for recovery; and he is preventing
the arrival of other Ministers with other
ideas for restoring prosperity.
THE DAWN OF HOPE.
When the Premiers met in Melbourne early
in June the Treasurers estimated that the
deficit for the year ending on the 30th of
that month would be 31 millions; and if
things were allowed to drift on, they further
estimated the deficit for the year 1931-32 at
41 millions. As, however, you cannot have
a deficit unless you leave your bills unpaid
or borrow to pay them, and as borrowing
to that extent was out of the question,
something had to be done to avoid default
and national bankruptcy. A committee of
economists and Under-Treasurers had pre-
viously been appointed to investigate the
whole matter; and under the chairmanship
of Professor Copland this committee had
shown how the estimated deficit for the
coming year might be reduced to 13 millions
and possibly lower. This report was adopted
as the basis of the Premiers’ inquiries and
of the plan which became operative on
the passing of the Salaries Reduction Bill
in the N. S. Wales Parliament last week.
The Plan, as finally adopted and now
being carried into effect, aims at making
the necessary sacrifices general throughout
the community. Its purpose is to reduce the
deficit from 41 to 16 millions in this way:—
New Federal taxation . . . . £7,500,000
Reduction of interest . . . . 5,500,000
Reduction of other expenditure . . 12,000,000
Total . . £25,000,000
It is further suggested that by a levelling
up of income tax in two States, Victoria
and Westralia, another two millions might
be got in; and, as the cost of government
in N. S. \\ ales is £1 per head in excess
of the average of other States, a further
two millions ought to be saved there.
The new Federal taxation is already in
force: it includes an addition to the income
tax, from which 14 million is expected, and
the sales and primage tax additions, from
which something a little in excess of six
millions may come. The reduction of inter-
est is by way of a 22i per cent, cut in
the interest on all domestic loans, to be
effected by a “voluntary” conversion which
generally preserves the capital debt but
reduces the rate payable upon it. The
reduction in other expenditure is to be
effected by a cut of 20 per cent, in the total
of Government salaries and wages, of 20
per cent, or less in war pensions and of
12j per cent, in invalid and old-age pen-
sions. All these are now law.
Behind all the reductions is a double pur-
pose—to whittle away the threatened deficit,
which in the circumstances was and is
imperative, and to reduce the cost of pro-
duction. Of recent years interest has been
one of the heaviest burdens on industry;
and the high rates have been due primarily
to the excessive rates which have been
offered in order to secure Government loans.
With the reduction of 224 per cent, in the
interest payable on Government loans the
Premiers held that there was no longer
justification for the rates hitherto charged
for private loans. They therefore included
as an integral part of their plan “a reduc-
tion of bank and Savings Bank rates of
interest on deposits and advances; and
relief in respect of private mortgages.” The
banks have accepted their part of the plan
by a rate-reduction of 1 per cent, at least
on deposits and advances; and mortgages
are to be dealt with by law.
The deficit which is still budgeted for
is excessive; but if confidence can be re-
established and if the season and overseas
markets help us, expenditure on unemploy-
ment relief should diminish and the revenue
from taxation exceed the estimate. Restora-
tion of confidence is of supreme importance;
and the plan at any rate removes one of
the obstacles in the path towards it. What
is needed especially now is a saner view
about work and wages. Hitherto practi-
cally nothing has been sought but high
wages; the reduction of the burdens on
industry, which have reduced the value of
the wages, has had hardly any attention.
The greatest of these burdens at the
moment is the enormous army of our unem-
ployed; and the Premiers’ Plan ought,
therefore, to be supplemented by an organ-
ised drive to absorb them into production.
Thus far we have been inclined to stress
too much the national demand for further
sacrifices. The case calls for more than
that. It calls for initiative and enterprise
and energy. It calls for hard work and
faithful service. And there is encourage-
ment for all of these in the fact that this
plan gives us the foundation of hope and a
definitely brighter outlook than we have had
at any time in the past two years.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Year’s Trade Figures.
Trade figures for June having been com-
pleted, it is possible to make up the follow-
ing table of exports and imports of
merchandise only (that is, excluding specie
and bullion), the export figures for 1931
being reduced to £’s English:—
Imports. Exports.
1920 .. £151,217,425 £143,282,515
1927 . . 104,127,759 132,837,061
1928 . . 140,936,540 139,472,322
1929 . . 143,281,449 140,923,932
1930 . . 129,223,149 97,378,299
1931 . . 60,184,279 76,526,438
For 1931 the figures include a small quan-
tity of silver, which has been excluded from
earlier years; but this is not important
enough to affect comparisons. Before reduc-
ing the export figures to the £ English they
stood at £89,764,836. That is to say, Aus-
tralian produce of that value in Australian
money was worth £13,238,398 less for paying
overseas bills. In addition to the merchan-
dise we exported about £1,750,000 of current
gold production; and this would make the
position for last year as follows:
Exports (including current gold) £78,276,438
Imports . . . . . . . . 60,184,279
Surplus Exports .. .. £18,092,159
Overseas Interest on Commonwealth
and State debts . . . . 28,568,452
Deficiency .. .. .. £10,476,293
In addition to current gold production there
was a further shipment of bullion: includ-
ing imported bullion (£373,876) the total
export for the year was £12,273,562. Includ-
ing all that, the position was:—
Exports (including gold reserves) £88,800,000
Imports . . . . . . . . 60,184,279
Surplus Exports . . . . £28,615,721
Total overseas commitments .. 35,000,000
*
Deficiency . . . . . . £6,384,279
But these latter figures are not worth very
much, inasmuch as the exports include
several millions of our poor little gold re-
serves.
The outstanding fact is that, although we
reduced our imports by more than 55 per
cent., our production was still 10 millions
short of paying the interest on our Com-
monwealth and State debt; and there are
other considerable charges beyond that.
The most staggering fact is that, notwith-
standing the good season and exceptional
harvests, so great has been the fall in
values that our exports were only 54 per
cent, in value of those of 1929.
On the most favorable showing possible,
we were over 10 millions short of paying our
way last year; and that is not paper we
owe, but hard money. Not all the cutting
down of public servants’ pay, not all the
cutting down of interest on the internal
debt, will put that right. Those things will
help, but only indirectly—by reducing the
cost of government and so reducing the
cost of production. For nothing matters
but production.
♦
The Government Savings Bank.
If the Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales ceases to be a Government savings
bank it may have a chance. But its removal
from political control will have to be most
absolute. Government appointment of
trustees will not do: already we have seen
in the case of the Commonwealth Bank a
Trades Hall secretary appointed to the
board for no other reason than that he is a
Trades Hall secretary. Neither can a Gov-
ernment guarantee be accepted in regard to
new business; as to the old, the guarantee
must, of course, stand, and be enforced.
Government guarantee means, or sooner


or later will be taken to mean, an obliga-
tion on the bank’s part to give the Govern-
ment specially favored treatment ; and it
was that which brought the old bank to
ruin. , . , . ,
The conduct of the business must be put
into the hands of the depositors. It has
been said that this is impossible. But the
A.M.P. and other great insurance offices are
governed by their policy-holders; and that
fs a much more difficult proposition, in
view of the fact that these policy-holders
are scattered not over a single State but
all over Australasia and beyond it.
First of all, however, the offer made by
the Commonwealth Bank will have to be
carefully weighed against every other
scheme put forward. The directors of
that bank have an advantage which not
even the most enlightened of outsiders
possess: they have had a look at the
bank’s assets. Without such an inspection
those who put forward schemes are build-
ing upon unknown foundations. Prima
facie, absorption is the proper thing, be-
cause it will mean, or should mean, a large
reduction in working expenses; and every
such reduction, so long as it does not mean
poorer service, makes the salving of the
bank easier, and so puts money into the
depositors’ pockets. Unfortunately, how-
ever, while the depositors are quite inarticu-
late and supine, vested interests in the
maintenance of the bank are alive and
active; and thus the interests of the staff
may easily outweigh those of the de-
positors.
4
Felon Blows at Federalism.
Months ago The Bulletin put it to the
Scullin Government that the interest-default
part of the Lang “plan” was so impudent
a flouting of the will of the people as
registered at the State-debts referendum,
so insolent an infraction of two sets of laws,
so wickedly unfederal a proceeding threaten-
ing the Commonwealth’s very existence,
and such a felon blow at the credit of the
whole country that the Government should
hit back immediately, and with all its force.
Briefly, the suggestion was that the national
Parliament should pass a law making de-
liberate default on the part of a State
Premier a criminal offence, and that if the
law were defied the Government should
take the necessary steps to place Lang
in the dock according to the procedure pre-
scribed in section 80 of the Constitution
Act:—
The trial on indictment of any offence against
any law of the Commonwealth shall be by jury,
and every such trial shall be held in the State
where the offence was committed, and if the offence
was not committed within any State the trial
shall be held at such place or places as the Par-
liament prescribes.
It is unnecessary to argue whether such a
law would have stood the test of an appeal
to the High Court. The mere passing of it
would have been enough. Lang is no hero
when he is thrown upon his own resources,
without a mob to feed his vanity and en-
courage him to descend to still lower depths
of mob politics. Placed in a position where
no mob could help him, he would have
grown tame immediately. His tail would
have gone down; and the credit and reputa-
tion of Australia would have gone up.
Unfortunately the Scullidores half-heart-
edly decided upon civil actions at which,
strangely protracted as they have been con-
sidering that the High Court and its officials
have little to do these days, the defaulting
Premier has only laughed. While the pro-
ceedings have been lost in a maze of tedious
preliminaries, the Welsher Government has
hurried from outrage to outrage. Last
week, in a desperate attempt to extend the
parasitic coupon system to the supply of
dole bread—a scheme which, in view of
the facts disclosed, it would be charitable
to describe as crazy—it had the effrontery
to seize 1000 tons of flour which certain
Commonwealth citizens, in the exercise of
their rights as Commonwealth citizens, and
with advantage to the Commonwealth,
which needs every bit of export trade it can
get, were about to load on a steamer bound
for Asiatic ports. And the weak Common-
wealth Government had nothing to say!
How can the Federal union be preserved
if faint-hearted Administrations will not
exercise the powers reposed in them when
the rights of citizens, of sister-States, of the
Commonwealth itself, are assailed?
4
Track Notes.
“Gad,” from the top of Australia:—
The other night I camped with a bloke (a
shrewder sort than most of the mob) who came
out of a long silence with this: “Tell me, Dig., what
is the dinkum cause of this depression?” We were
camped at a railway shed at the northern ex-
tremity of the Townsville-Cairns railway. I pointed
to the rails that ran beside us, and said: “It’s
partly this. But two-thirds of it is us.”
Let any man intelligently walk the track and
he will see the epitaph of party government written
all over the face of the land. (At least, it should
be the epitaph.) There are hundreds of idle, dis-
pirited men walking in hungry procession to-day
over thousands of miles of railway lines that should
never have been laid down. Townsville is a port;
Cairns is a port; Port Douglas is a port; there's a
port hard by Innisfail and at Cardwell as well—so
what in Heaven’s name they wanted a coastal rail-
way for is a question which only a politician could
answer. And we voted for those men!
The whole State of Queensland (even more
apparently than N.S.W.) is haunted by the ghosts
of party jobbers and damned fools. The other
evening I walked into Biboora. Biboora is a town
on the Cairns tableland. Here once was a flourish-
ing meatworks. I camped in that meatworks
the other night; and all about me was a scene
of splendid desolation. Here was a magnificent
plant, rusting. And all about stood dark, empty
houses which once sheltered the families of hundreds
of well-paid workers. In the early morning (next
day) I wandered through the works of the Biboora
Meat Exporting Co. It reminded me of war-scarred
France. The plant stood intact. There were rows
of barracks which had once been electrically lit.
Here were shower-baths which goats and a new
generation of swagmen had used for a purpose for
which they were never intended. Further on was
the office of the company. Through the window
I saw that it remained fully furnished. Typewriters
stood idle; pens, ink and paper lay there laden
with dust. I was interested in Biboora because I
had met a man on the track (near Innisfail) who
told me he once worked there. He said he used to
get £lO a week, and did not know how he really
filled in his time! Further back (on the Western
line) I had seen Torrens Creek. There, once, was
another flourishing meatworks. Now you could buy
the whole town (pub included) for two bob. An-
other candid swaggie summed it up. He came from
those parts. “I’m afraid we killed the goose,”
he said.
I am, at the moment of writing, camped at Port
Douglas. (I have become immobile because my
boots are worn out.) This town once boasted
23 pubs—now there are but four or five. At
one time this was a flourishing port. Now it is
dead (the Cairns tableland railway killed it). I
don’t know what the inhabitants of Port Douglas
live on; but the town still has a police station,
a school and a harbor-master. There is a fine beach
here (the best I have seen on the North Queens-
land coast), and it seems that if only they (meaning
the Government) could get enough money to com-
plete the Cairns-Port Douglas-road, tourists might
be encouraged out this way. At present the Cairns-
Port Douglas-road may be finished this year, next
year, sometime—never. Meanwhile there are, to my
certain knowledge, 25 bagmen camped in Port Douglas
(myself included) who would willingly put in a
day’s work on the Port Douglas-road! for a few bob
rather than live in idleness on the ss. weekly dole
they now get.
Of course, the Cairns-Port Douglas-road would
not help to pay our debts overseas; except indirectly,
in this way. There are hundreds of bagmen on
the road who have given up looking for work.
It really is not to be found. They can hardly be
expected to wear out boots (which cannot be re-
placed) in the effort. These men are facing a
condition of stationary oblivion, a condition in
which work of any sort will be irksome to them.
So that, in anticipation of a national recovery, it
would be a prudent policy to keep some proportion
of the vast army in a workable condition.
4
Let Us Be Honest About the Loan.
It is to be hoped that the comments made
in London on the Kylsant case, and especi-
ally those made by the trial Judge, reached
those Australian politicians who lately
adopted a plan for the conversion of Aus-
tralian loans. Lord Kylsant was a notable
shipping manager, whose company, after
having a great burst of prosperity, fell upon
hard times. For a period these conditions
were hidden by drawing upon undisclosed
reserves, which were really the unrevealed
profits of prosperous days; and had a change
come over the co.’s affairs and good trading
conditions returned, nobody would have
known of the sag. Unfortunately things
continued bad after the hidden reserves
were all exhausted; then the confession had
to be made that there had in fact been
losses for several years past.
The charge upon which Lord Kylsant was
found guilty was that he had issued a
prospectus in which- the fictitious profits of
a few years past were quoted. The Court
could not bring itself to say that it was a
criminal offence to “equalise profits,” as it
is sometimes called; but it had no doubt
that it was a crime to do it for the purpose
of getting money from the public by deceiv-
ing it into believing the position to be
better than it actually was. The “Times”
summed up the whole position in half a
dozen lines: the case should lead to greater
frankness between boards and shareholders
and strengthen the position of auditors by
improving their authority in matters in
which they are trustees for the public.
In connection with the Australian loan
conversion we have the same lack of frank-
ness which has been deplored in England.
So that it might be given out to the world
that this was a voluntary operation, _ not a
word is said in the measure, nor in the
preliminary Premiers’ agreement, about the
alternatives to conversion; but before the
plan was drafted it was allowed to be well
understood that punitive taxation would
fall upon those who did not convert. In
the absence of any legislation on the sub-
ject, of course, nobody can weigh conversion
losses against tax payments. All the holder
knows is that, whereas under the conversion
scheme the right of future taxation is strictly
limited (so far as one Parliament can
limit another), unconverted loans of the
tax-free issues will be open to taxation up
to the full 100 per cent, of their yield.
This was a business matter, and holders
were entitled to know what concession was
required from them, to be paid by way of
either conversion or tax. But the politician,
who has got us into this appalling mess,
must proceed in his own tortuous way to
get us out of it—or deeper into it. He
must pretend that this is a voluntary con-
version, and, after the holders have been
driven to convert, in terror of the unknown
—including anything up to a 100 per cent,
punitive tax—there will be trumpeting
abroad of the tremendous voluntary sacri-
fices of Australia; and no doubt an appeal to
England will follow. It is neither frank nor
honest.
4
Our Very Insignificant War Debt.
Among the cherished illusions of Australia
are five concerning the war: (1) That Aus-
tralia spent an awful lot of money on it;
(2) that it is a principal cause of the
country’s debts and embarrassments and
its partial insolvency; (3) that joining in
the struggle was an act of unappreciated
generosity, for Australia could have kept
out, and the noble-hearted Huns and Turks,
even if they came out on top, would have
recognised our neutrality and inviolability;
(4) that we are charged an outrageous
interest rate by our British war creditor;
(5) that in consequence Australia does well
to be angry, and should (some say) go so
far as to repudiate all its debts, and wave
the red flag, and throw religion and civilisa-
tion overboard.
Australia’s record liabilities are of various
sorts. There is the Federal war debt,
foreign and local. There is the Federal
external and internal debt for productive
works and unproductive works. And there
is the overwhelming State debt, oversea and
internal, incurred for productive works,
money-losing works and for no works at all,
but simply to fill up holes in the six Trea-
suries and to keep up an inflated standard
of living. To save space they can be
classified into war and peace debts (the date
is June, 1930): —
Oversea Debt per Head.
War. All Other. Total.
Westralia ..£l4 6 9 £l2l 3 1 £135 910
Queensland.. 14 6 9 87 7 7 101 14 4
S. Aus. . . 14 6 9 85 5 9 99 12 6
N. S. Wales.. 14 6 9 79 15 3 94 2 0
Tasmania .. 14 6 9 73 16 2 88 2 11
Victoria ~ 14 6 9 47 7 0 61 13 9
The oversea debt is the one concerning
which red-flaggers and other bad characters
make the most violent disturbance, be-
cause it can’t be taxed away, in whole or
in part, save by blank repudiation, which
might lead to all sorts of trouble. So it is
consoling to know that the oversea war debt
is the almost insignificant quantity of £l4
6s. 9d. per inhabitant.
The next table covers more ground:—
I’oTAii Debt (Overseas and Local) per Head.
War. AllOtlier. Total.
Westralia ..£43 17 2 £lB6 0 6 £229 17 8
Queensland.. 43 17 ' 2 133 11 9 177 811
S. Aus. . . 43 17 2 175 18 8 219 15 10
N. S. Wales.. 43 17 2 122 19 2 166 16 4
Tasmania . . 43 17 2 119 6 7 163 3 9
Victoria . . 43 17 2 101 710 145 5 0
The average is £l7O 18s. 7d. per head, or
£156 10s. lid. per head without reckoning
the war debt abroad, or £127 Is. sd. per
head apart from war debt altogether, and
only reckoning Government works, jobs
and swindles.
4
The Tyranny of Union Bosses.
Dear Bulletin, —Government departments
may issue regulations which have the effect
of laws, but union officials govern the
country by word of mouth.
Case 1. —A few weeks ago I, being a
medico, was summoned to a ship tied up
to a bunker wharf. I found a sailor suffer-
ing from a minor ailment, which necessi-
tated 48 hours off duty. The vessel was
due to sail in two hours. If it sailed with-
out my patient he lost hia job, the first he
had had for many months. He earnestly
requested the captain to allow him to
remain on board. His mates agreed to do
his work for two days. Everything was
arranged. Then the union sec. came on
board—held the ship up and ordered my
patient ashore. The patient lost his job.
The shipping co. lost a considerable sum of
money from the delay caused in obtaining
another man. Everybody from the captain
down bowed to the ukase of the ruler of
the land, the union secretary, without pro-
test or comment.
Case 2.—John Williams, a carpenter, un-
employed for eight months. A willing and
conscientious worker. Called up for two
weeks’ relief work. As he took his card
from the official at the desk a union official
stepped forward and bade him hand it back
because he was not a financial member of
the Carpenters’ Union. The official nomi-
nally in charge of the office, and supposedly
the representative of the Government, took
it without a murmur, and John Williams
found himself back on the dole. Next time
he was called he promised to pay a year’s
subscription to the union in advance, and
got his two weeks’ work. The subscription
amounted to two-thirds of the only money
he had earned for eight months; and thus
the boss of the union which professed to
look after the interest of the workers made
sure of his salary. The holes in John Wil-
liams’s trousers and boots did not worry
him.—Yours, Quack.
♦
The Little Bush Schools.
“Henry P.”: It is in the nature of things
that our scattered population is expensive
to teach. But if there is any sense of jus-
tice, any feeling of pity, left in the tax-
payers, they will not let the out-back schools
suffer —only as a last resource. As an old
bush-taught boy, I plead with all my power
for the retention of these schools wher-
ever possible. The very presence of a
teacher amongst lonely bush-dwellers has
an influence for good which the city-
dweller can hardly comprehend. More than
ever is it necessary that every possible unit
of our rising generation should have at
least sufficient teaching to value education.
True, there is the correspondence system.
But where education by correspondence is
being conducted, the sparse population is
being threatened with curtailment or entire
cessation of mails. No mails, no lessons.
In any case, the correspondence system,
while admirable, is only fully effective
where the children have parents intelligent
enough to appreciate it. So those who
are in greatest need of help get least of it.
The Cost of Cheap Judges.
It was appropriate that the conviction of
Lord Kylsant should have occurred while
a measure to reduce the N. S. Wales Judges
to £5OO a year was before the public. Lord
Kylsant is a millionaire, a friend of the
King, a vice-chairman of the Unionist
Association, and a connection by marriage of
some of the most powerful families in the
land. His numerous “pulls” didn’t save
him from being tried and sentenced as
expeditiously as if he had been a nobody.
Decent Americans and Continentals watch
such manifestations with envy. The
supremacy of the law in Britain doesn’t
mean that the British are more honorable
than people of other races. The Bench is
above suspicion because the leaders of the
Bar are appointed to it, and the nation
secures their services by making it financi-
ally worth while. If anybody ever suc-
ceeds in sovietising an Australian Bench,
future candidates for Judgeships will natu-
rally be practitioners with small earning
capacities. They will need much more than
£5OO p.a. apiece to keep up their positions,
and a good many will get it, as under-
paid Judges of America and France do.
The losers will be those who are too poor to
pay bribes, and the gainers the pests who
always appear in communities where jus-
tice can be bought.
♦
We Can Learn from Russia.
“N.L.S.”: They have no unemployed in
Russia; and neither would we have if our
Governments had half the pluck of Stalin’s.
When a business man sees his markets
invaded successfully by a rival, he examines
the other fellow’s methods, and where
he sees an improvement he adopts it
—it makes no difference whether he
approves of the way the other fellow treats
his womenfolk or whether he likes the
church the other fellow goes to. To-day
we have in Russia a dangerous business
rival. There we have the spectacle of a
whole nation producing. Like us, they want
money and can only get it by selling
exports. They sell at cut prices, and their
own people go without to make up losses.
It is high time we adopted a similar
policy. We must accept lower prices in
the world markets, and must produce and
sell more. This can only come about
through the greater employment of primary
producers, and sooner or later the unem-
ployed will be driven to the country to
become those producers.
In the cities hundreds of jobs involv-
ing no heavy physical strain are in the hands
of young men. These could be done just
as well, in many cases better, by women,
who would release numbers of narrow-
chested youths who are trailing their idiotic
Oxford bags on city pavements. During
the war the women who came from their
homes to release men for the battlefield
were hailed as patriots. Why not so to-
day? The national need is as great. In
spite of periodic attacks on the modern
girl, most of us realise that on the average
she is a more useful citizen than her pre-
decessor. If, instead of crying “Send the
girls back to the home, they are depriving
men of jobs,” we said “Send the men to
the land and let the girls carry on for
them,” the national benefit would be very
great.
Many boys are growing up with a definite
contempt for physical work. The realisation
that work is a good and satisfying thing
would be of tremendous moral value. The
increased production of exportable com-
modities would be our financial salvation.
4
Spiritual Values in War.
With yet another disarmament conference
in the offing, almost every minute a, Euro-
pean eminentissimo bobs up to paint the
horrors of the next war; and he invariably
dwells on the physical side of it. The spirit-
ual horrors are seldom mentioned; yet
the last war indicated what is to be expected
in the next. Once upon a time wars were
considered rather as duels between rival
princelings. Popes used to keep the ring
and occasionally called a Truce of God to
enable the combatants and the countries to
get their breath back. When Laurence
Sterne made his Sentimental Journey from
England to Paris, France and Britain were
at war; but a count of Sterne’s acquaint-
ance easily obtained a passport for him, so
that he might enjoy the delights of the
Parisian theatre and table. French savants
invited Watt to Paris during the Napoleonic
wars, so that he could explain the principle
of the miner’s lamp. Nap. and Pitt were
understood to be at war—not the intelli-
gent and civilised members of the two com-
munities.
The war of 1914 changed all that. First-
class scientists who held their heads above
the waves of nationalistic frenzy had either
to keep their mouths shut or go to prison.
The lesser fry rushed to sign round-robins
denouncing their fellow-scientists of enemy
countries, and the pacifist H. G. Wells bel-
lowed for blood just like his brother-intel-
lectuals in Germany. Musicians all over
the world refused to play enemy music,
even dead-enemy music. No Truce of God
was possible because God was on all sides
at once, urging worshippers on against one
another like a recruiting-sergeant.
In the next world-symphony of hate, all
these effects will be played fortissimo. As
soon as the first million-city has been laid
low and all its people have been gassed into
yellow heaps, such a frenzy of herd emotion
will break out that it is difficult to see how
any intellectual values can survive.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP ........ £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYEURBT.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond. Engagement!; Mings
£3O
m
i m
The diamu.ids used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
l-land-marte tnroughout, wil'd pure
platinum settings, these rings are .still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE:
è
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sydney has just had the story of the
loaves and fishe.s repeated to it. The unem-
ployed were to get the loaves; it is suggested
that tliesp should be a commission to find
out who was to get the fishes. They left a
very bad smell behind them, anyway.
“We will remove the legislation by which
salaries were reduced, and allow the remun-
eration of public servants to be governed, as
other salaries are, by the Arbitration
Court.” Lang said that—it was the elec-
tion birdlime with which he caught 98 per
cent, of the N.S.W. public .servants. When
no-pay day arrived in the departments last
week, the victims had leisure to reflect that
they had been taken in by an unscrupulous
mob-leader whose economics are as rotten as
his politics. It became so crushingly evident
that their “remuneration” is not “governed
by the Arbitration Court” that no one even
thought of asking Good Old Piddo to force
the N. S. Welsher Government to shell out.
An appeal to Piddington would have been as
useless as an appeal to the Pyramids.
OPTIMIST: “To the superficial eye it’s a
total wreck, but propped up with my
IOU’s it will be as good as new.”
The executive of the Federal Country party
protests that Canberra is ignored because
the Loan Council is meeting at Mel-
bourne instead of at the nominal met-
ropolis. But ’Berra is without a harbor,
or a navigable river, or a decent-sized
river of any sort to furnish water-
power, and it isn’t rich in minerals, and it
is consequently short of commerce and manu-
factures, and it isn’t on or close to a main
line of railway, and the naval and military
colleges have both left it, and even when
Parliament is in session members quit it
every week-end, and the latest return shows
that the scanty population (about nine per
square mile for the whole Fed. Capital Terri-
tory) is fading. At a time of rush and crisis
no one thinks much about Canberra.
While lying ill at a Flinders-street hotel
Vic. Premier Hogan managed to negotiate an
agreement with the trading banks to reduce
interest on private overdrafts by 1 p.c. A
clause in the Financial Emergency Bill pro-
vides for a little compulsion, but Hogan gave
the assurance that it would not come into
operation unless proclaimed, and there need
be no proclamation. Jones, leader of the
Upper House and Minister of Works, helped
to bring the banks round to acceptance of
the legislative expedient.
Queensland revenue for July was £879,104
and expenditure £938,005, as against £958,943
and £1,041,121 in July, 1930. Treasurer
Barnes told his associates at the Loan Coun-
cil that his State would be the first to pull
through the crisis, and no one challenged him
to back his opinion in Commonwealth notes.
Trade-union statistics for the first quarter of
1931 show 14.1 p.c. unemployed in Queens-
land, 24.4 p.c. in Vic., 26.1 p.c. in Westralia,
26.6 p.c. in Tas., 29.2 p.c. in N.S.W. and
30.6 p.c. in South Aus. And the Queensland
figures would be better still but for the
flight of workers from Lang’s State.
Reporting on the Westralian trade returns
for 1930-31, the State Statistician notes
sadly that “while 17 million bushels more
was exported this year than last, £840,000
less was received for it.” And the Westralian
wheat-farmer has not fared so badly as the
growers in N. S. Wales, Victoria or South
Australia; from his pool he has received
Is. 9§d. a bushel at siding, with another pay-
ment to come. To the end of June China
had taken six million bushels of Westralian
wheat and it has bought briskly since. Other
States have shared in these Chinese pur-
chases, which, it is conjectured, are to supply
the needs of the Nationalist army, “now
faced with civil war on two fronts.”
The Loan Council has undertaken to help
Lang if he shows signs of sanity, but it is
rather a weak reed.
It has no money of its
own. All it can do is
to put the Common-
wealth's signature to a
lot of bonds and give
them to the State Trea-
surers, who then sell
or pawn them to the
banks. If the banks
haven’t enough money
they can’t buy them,
and they are all rather
tired of helping Trea-
surers, the Common-
wealth Bank included,
through buying so much
paper already. Com-
monwealth security is
really the security of
the six States which
make up the Common-
wealth, and the biggest
State has defaulted.
According to Gosling,
the Minister for Dole
Bread and formerly
the Minister for Tin
Hares, “Mr. Lang is
the man with the sur-
prises.” So is Gos-
ling, to some extent.
The trouble is that
their “surprises”—such
as interest-default, the
Savings Bank .smash,
the ten-million deficit,
the 55.-in-the-£ tax,
the reduction of salaries
to £5OO a year and the
dole-bread affair —are so
dashed unpleasant.
The N. S. Wales bread dole stopped the
other day, just as a lot of civil-service
salaries stopped, because of Lang. Declar-
ing that the bread was too dear (the,
bakers averred that it was too cheap,
and that they couldn’t get their money from
Lang, anyhow), the Government announced
that it would all have to be supplied through
a new concern with a capital of £lO,OOO,
which was to be allowed 3d. per dozen loaves.
The contract was reckoned to be worth
£16,000 a year to the middlemen, and it
was fixed up without reference to the ten-
ders board, nor did it contain a penalty
clause. Bread deliveries incontinently ceased
in many suburbs —Lang’s, among others
—and Lang, assuming his part of the Strong
Bloke, seized 1000 tons of flour. The flour
was on the wharf ready for export to help
pay some overseas liabilities when Lang
stopped it. He soon weakened; the flour
was given up and the bread contract can-
celled ; but there is a fearful lot to be
explained.
There was grief in Israel when it was
announced that there would be no monish for
N.S.W. civil servants. In all the capitals
there are philanthropists who specialise in
meeting the financial requirements of Com-
rade Percy, and the corridors of the Sydney
Government offices on pay days might easily
COMRADE PERCY : “Not a feather to fly with,
Israel — you’re not the only one who’s
been plucking me!”
be taken for the precincts of Shool on a
Saturday morning. This time the river of
paper-currency had dried up. Expostulation
was useless and Israel went back to his
lair, wailing that no greater calamity had
descended on the Chosen since Titus sacked
Jerusalem.
Someone in the N.S.W. civil service has
a sense of humor, even if a sense of impecu-
niosity accompanies it. When the Trea-
sury ghost declined to walk on Thursday lie
got to the top of the building and hoisted
the flag to half-mast, tying a knot in the
“fly” of it. This, known to sailormen as
a “weft,” is used at sea as a signal of dire
distress.
"C ontrary to expectation, Mr. Lang did not go ro Melbourne last week
to give in hts adhesion to the Loan Council. lie sent young Mr. Lamaro
instead.”
DEPUTY DANIEL: “The boss seemed flustered when he said
he had a more important engagement in Sydney. Still,
he assured me they wouldn’t bite.”
N. S. Wales public servants in the top
grades (over £l5OO a year) are to suffer a
cut of 32 \ per cent., which brings the rate
bird on the £2OOO-a-year mark down to
£1350. It sounds like butchery; yet it is
nothing like the average business man has
suffered. In the ‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
August the usual multitude of Australian
trading cos.’ accounts were dissected. If one
had had shares of a face value of £lOO in
each of them, he would have collected £228
10s. in 1926 and £lO9 ss. in the past year •
and that is equal to a cut of 54 per cent.
Adelaide, always practical, has got down
seriously to. the job of helping people back
to production. Lately a committee was
appointed to consider how the thing could
be done, and it was decided that the most
practicable plan was to form cos. to acquire
suitable land, to get it ready, to sub-divide
and allot it and to assist in cultivation and
marketing. The committee’s first co., Back to
the Land, Ltd., has issued a prospectus, ask-
ing for £150,000, but it will start when
£20,000 has been subscribed. There are no
promoters’ shares or anything of that sort,
most of the expert assistance will be
honorary, and, though nothing much in the
way of dividends is expected for a start, a
reasonable return ought to be forthcoming
over a spread of years. Anyway, the under-
taking has the backing of some of the most
trustworthy people in Adelaide—and deserves
it
In February, the outlook being bleak, Bri-
tain’s Labor-Freetrade Ministry appointed
an Economy Committee. That body has
reported that Treasurer Snowden wants
£120.000.000 per annum more by increased
revenue and/or diminished expenditure. So
it is considered that the monstrous dole
expenditure will have to be cut down by
millions, though plenty of dole is Ram
MacSnowden’s No. 1 joss, and that some-
thing may have to be done to help British
manufactures by means of the tariff, though
the throwing of British industries to the
wolves of cheap competition is its No. 2 joss.
There won’t be much joss left soon, either
for Labor or Liberalism.
Sydney newspapers which had roods of
space for the A.F.A. when they thought it
might be flattered into throwing in its lot
with the Nationalists, and accepting the pre-
selection swindle, rarely mention it now
except to let some hostile secretary or organ-
iser throw a brick at it; but they had to
report its annual convention. Upwards of
1100 delegates were present, and it was
decided, among other things, that any mem-
ber, man or woman, might stand for'Parlia-
ment, and that there should be no ballot to
determine the order of preference. A good
honest blow for the liberation of the people
from our unspeakable machine politics.
Australia has chucked public money about
with the usual carelessness of the spend-
thrift. All sorts of care has been taken to
see that the basic wage followed the cost
of living; but the cost of living hasn’t mat-
tered to the poor old-age pensioners. The
Northern Territory has a few —pioneers most
of them. They pay 11s. for a fifty of flom
and Bd. for bread : but they never got mor«
than the 20s. paid to the old hand in the
cheapest part of Australia, and God know
what) they are going to do with 17s. Gd.
In Queensland recently a man asked for
a decree of nullity after GO years of mar-
riage, pleading that the lady had been the
wife of his dead brother. Macrossan, J.,
refused on the ground of public policy. A
bill legalising marriage with a deceased hus-
band’s brother, and made retroactive to meet
the circumstances of this case and others
like it, has now been put through the State
Parliament. Marriage with a deceased wife’s
sister has been lawful for many years, but,
for some reason or other, the right granted
to one sex was withheld from the other.
Civil servants grumble that they are get-
ting it in the neck everywhere. In Papua
the Administration decided to levy a primage
tax on imports, there having been a deficit
of £7OOO. A public meeting at Port Mores-
by has asked for a 20 p.c. cut in civil-service
salaries instead.
The Commission which will make a new
electoral map of Queensland won’t get much
help from the old sinful chart. Under the
law you divide the total on the rolls by the
number of districts, and allow a swing of
20 per cent, either way. Present quota is
6877, which means that no electorate ought
to have more than 8250 and none less than
5502. Actually there are 14 in which the
numbers range from 3017 to 4845, and 12
of the 14 send Labor men ; while five which
always score over 10.000 electors regularly
send Nationalists. The last division, it is
hardly necessary to say, was made by the
Ryan-Theodores in the days when they were
laying the foundations for their long reign.
The numbers are now to be reduced from
72 to 62.
Just at present Westralia is running a
strenuous secession movement, in the course
of which politicians of all shades are telling
the people what a vast saving they would
make if they left the Commonwealth. If
they quitted the Commonwealth leaving be-
hind them their debt of £220 17s. Sd. per
inhabitant they would certainly save a good
deal. It is a pity the W.A. secessionists are
so silent about this aspect of the case.
From John A. L. Gunn: —
“R.R.” (B. 29/7/’3l) complains that the allow-
ance under the N. S. Wales Income Tax Act is con-
fined to unmarried taxpayers. The reason is this.
The Act of 1928 virtually imposed a bachelor tax.
The statutory deduction of £3OO was reduced to
£250, but married taxpayers were allowed a deduc-
tion of £5O in respect of their wives. At the same
time it was recognised that unmarried taxpayers
who supported dependants should be placed as far
as possible in the same position as married ones;
consequently a provision was inserted permitting a
deduction (not exceeding £5O) of amounts actually-
expended towards the maintenance of dependants
whose separate income does not exceed £lOO p.a. A
special issue of The Bulletin could be devoted to
the exposure of anomalies and injustices in taxation
acts, but the subject under discussion is one of the
few where an attempt at rough justice had been
made.
“A representative of the International Friendship
League has arrived in Australia. He explains tha:
the object of the league is to prevent any outbreak
of war by a simultaneous strike throughout the world
in all key industries.”
Aussie Dove-fanciee: “Looks a funny sort
of dove to me.”
Gent, from Abroad: “It’s one of the new
Moscow strain. They’re all the rage in
Russia now.”
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin :
Judging by two recent appointments the only
qualification required by the N.S.W. Government for
heavily remunerated and highly technical work is
ability to make disagreeable noises or to organise
disastrous strikes by well-paid bodies of Government
employees. It was this class of appointment that
killed the State trawling industry; and no State
enterprise could survive it. I have always been a
strong advocate of State industries and did more
than any other man in the way of establishing
them, and, I can fairly claim, successfully in this
State; but I regarded it as the first essential that
the man placed in charge of each undertaking must
be highly qualified to do that particular class of


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Rue Royale”: Before the war Sydney’s
recently closed Paris House had the most
unexpected waiter in the world. “Fritz,” as
he was known, was a tall, gaunt German with
the bowed back of ’umbleness, a long, melan-
choly face and a soup-catcher moustache:
he served in the private rooms on six days
of the week and in the Salvation Army on
the seventh. I got one of the major shocks
of my life the morning after a hectic night,
in the course of which he had performed
prodigies of resource in the way of produc-
ing more and more champagne, when I looked
out of my bedroom window in Elizabeth
Bay and saw' him banging a drum in the
uniform of his faith. The late J. F. Archi-
bald told me Fritz was a teetotaller, a non-
smoker and a vegetarian, and richer in cash,
as well as in virtue, than many of those on
whom he waited. He never attempted the
forlorn hope of converting frequentei’s of
the private rooms, but is said to have used
his lamentable experiences there as texts for
many burning addresses in Woolloomooloo,
which was his chief vineyard. The war
cost him his job.
HIS HURRY.
THE CRYSTALCAZER : "I can see you in a motor smash. Now you are flying for your
life. Ah—you have summoned help!”'
The SPEEDSTER: “Cripes, that’s better. You gave me a nasty turn—I thought I’d spotted
a traffic John.”
“H'otham”: The Australian . censorship,
which strains at a “Redheap,” has a swallow
like a sperm whale’s when it comes to Holly-
wooden pornography and lurid crime litera-
ture. Of late Melbourne has been flooded
with a series of cheap “novels,” which have
the old “dime” stuff beaten out of sight for
noxiousness. A typical example is a produc-
tion calling itself a magazine and dealing
solely with Chicago and New York “racket-
eers.” The contents of one number include
“Red-hot Shots, an Underworld Prize Story,”
wfith pictures to match. This production is
closely imitated by two others dwelling on
the same subjects and illustrating them as
suggestively and crudely. There are general
complaints that the railway bookstalls are
plastered with this sort of tack, but Com-
missioner Clapp says he can't prevent it—
that is the job of the Customs. And obviously
they don’t attend to it.
“E.D.”: “Tattoo” is hardly fair to
Chichester (B. 22/7/’3l) when he says that
“no doubt” the airman “picked his weather
for his lone hops from Maoriland to Norfolk
Island and from Norfolk to Lord Howe.
Actually the flight from Norfolk to Lord
Howe was so bumpy that two barometers
were broken, and Chichester has left it. on
record that he had also to guess the alti-
tude. And in the first stage of the journey
the Englishman was occupied, beside piloting
the ’plane, in making a chart, the excellence
of which has been testified to by Major de
Havilland and every R.A.A.F. officer and
civil flier who have seen it. I agree wit.i
“Timers” that no tribute can be too high
to pay to that remarkable achievement in
aerial navigation.
* * * *
“Wongajong” : It almost looks as if truth
isn’t above borrowing from fiction sometimes.
When the Norddeutscher Lloyd steamer Lohn
was in the Mediterranean, a sailor hailed and
fondled what he imagined was the ship’s dog.
It was actually a tiger which had escaped
from its cage. The animal pursued him to the
engine-room, and mauled him so seriously
that he is now in hospital; it damaged an
officer and killed four monkeys before being
shot. Twenty years ago the late Ernest
O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) had a memorable short
story, “The Lobster and the Lioness,” in
The Bulletin. In “Kodak’s” yarn a
homing drunk is followed in the a.m. hours
by what he believes to be a large yellow dog.
lie treats it to portions of the lobster he
carries, secures further nourishment for it
from a coffee-stall, which the proprietor
promptly vacates, and finally arrives at his
lodgings with the animal.
* * ♦
“Uramao”: In Christchurch (M.L.) is a
lady who has had seven husbands in orderly
sequence. The first marriage took place in
England and the bond has never been broken
except by death. The most remarkable thing
is that the lady’s seventh venture was the
son of her very first husband by a former
wife. Thus she has got back to hex; original
married name, after having borne five other
ones.
& :Jc ❖
“Faispleas”: Looking for the long arm
stretched further than usual? Well, beat
this? A girl with a job in Sydney comes
from the Glebe. One day lately, on her way
in, she lost the face-glass of her wristlet
watch. Much later in the day her mother
and a manned sister were in a Balmain
tram, when the sister felt something on
the seat, tier fingers groped for it, what-
ever it was, and presently drew out from
between the slats a watch glass. “That’s
very like Gwen’s!” she says. “And Gwen’s
has been coming out lately.” Of course
mother said it couldn’t be —what would Gwen
be doing in a Balmain tram at that hour of
the day? However, they took the glass home;
and in the evening, when Gwen returned, dis-
covered that it was hers all right—aiiyway,
it fitted. But that wasn’t the full extent
of the girl’s luck. During the day she had
gone to a watchmaker’s to liave another glass
put in, and had been quoted a price which
seemed so high that she came out without
having the job done, intending to call at a
cheaper shop next day.
:!: * #
“Juugor”: “Gift shares” flew about with
pleasing frequency during a certain period,
one gathers fi’om the evidence in the Mun-
gana case. These artless tokens of good-
will are apt to prove expensive, to givers
and recipients alike. One Westralian gold-
fields warden lost his job because his wife
had accepted a friendly tribute of this sort
from a promoter of companies, and the Gov-
ernment of the day was hit up for damages
because it wasn’t content to sack him and
leave it at that. It is only when the gift
shares become valuable that the outside world
is liable to hear of them, and that, pro-
videntially perhaps, isn’t often. Bnt it does
happen. A boomster in Westralia was so
pleased at. having effected an advantageous
flotation that he rewarded the man who had
driven him out to the scene of operations
with a couple of hundred shares, a sergeant
of police with another hundred, and various
other supernumeraries wfith fifties. Most of
the beneficiaries sold out as soon as they
could for what they could get, but the ser-
geant held on, and presently cleared nearly
£lOOO from the spontaneous token of regard.
Then his suddenly acquired wealth broke
down the temperance principles of years and
cost him his job. There may be a moral
somewhere.
“Claude (Esophagus”: “Keg” asks (B.
5/8/’3l) what the professional man is sacri-
firing in the present crisis. Speaking for
the doctor, 50 per cent, and over, mainly
because his “free list” has doubled and
trebled its length. Even before the crash
ordinary medical fees in Australia were only
about 25 per cent, higher than they had
been 30 years previously. The doctor has
advanced in wages less than almost anybody
else in the community, and his free work in-
creases every day. It is because men like
“Keg” are unwilling to pay a fair price
IN FLIC TED AFFLICTION.
THE LADY: "I wish you wouldn’t keep pushing like this.”
THE STOUT ONE: "I'm not pushing; I’m only sighing.”
for their most precious possession, health,
that the hospitals are overcrowded by people
who have no right at all to be there. I
agree with “Keg” that specialists lose a
lot of money because many people cannot
pay what they ask; but their charges have
come down. An operation that would have
cost you 50 guineas two years ago will be
willingly performed for 25 guineas to-day.
:!: * * *
“Portishead”: Most visiting warships
leave mariners behind in Sydney, and
they aren’t always absent-minded ones. The
Chilean Baquedano was no exception; the
usual two or three stragglers missed the
boat and had to appeal to autho-
rity to enable them to overtake
it, and one voyager was so devas-
tated at the thought of what he
was leaving (or where he was
remaining) that he took a
header into the chilly, shark-
infested harbor before the ship
had cleared it and struck out
manfully for the shore. But his
judgment was at fault; there
was no chance of such a get-
away in broad daylight, and. a
ship’s boat soon retrieved him.
Time was when there would
hardly have been a penalty too
severe in the R.N. for an act
like that; it would be interesting
to know what punishment it
carries in the Chilean Navy
nowadays.
“Hamer”: Even the Chow can
get in a telling retort occasion-
ally. At Parkes (N.S.W.) a
Chinese vegetable cart was
bnmped by a motor-car. It was
the motorist’s fault, but he exer-
cisod the white man’s privilege and unloosed
his wrath in a tirade, ending with “Haven’t
you got any blanky sense?” The Celestial
faced him blandly. “Plenty sense,” he said;
“Vou wanchee some?”
* * * *
“Mudurup” : Westralian “Truth,” founded
by the late John Norton in 1903, put up its
shutters a few weeks ago, and the other day
the last of its lares and penates, including
the editorial chair, were disposed of under
the auctioneer’s hammer. Seventeen editors
occupied that piece of furniture in 28 years.
One of them found it a stepping-stone to a
Labor seat in the Assembly: another now
edits the local “Worker” and a third the
Sydney “Labor Daily.”
* * * *
“Jeames”: There is more at stake than
the survival of the De.von and Somerset
Staghounds in the riot at Minehead last
week. The British opponents of blood sports
are out to abolish, not only stag-hunting,
but fox-, hare- and otter-hunting and all
forms of shooting for sport. They have logic
on their side. Bear-baiting has been illegal
in England since 1835. Where, the humani-
tarians ask, is the difference between baiting
a bear and chasing a stag to death? Pigeon-
shooting has been barred at Ranelagh and
ITurlingham for years, yet it is claimed to be
no crueller than pheasant- or grouse-shooting
—in fact the percentage of wounded birds
in covert-shooting is bigger than in trap-
shooting. But the problem is awkward,
however you look at it. It has been esti-
mated that upwards of 10,000,000 Britons
get their living out of blood sports, directly
and indirectly, and the amount of capital
invested in hunters, guns and ammunition,
pheasant shoots, grouse moors, deer forests,
etc., is incalculable. Alternatives are to
follow carted stags, which aren’t killed at
the. end of runs (the Royal Buckhounds
function on these lines round Ascot), or
drag-hounds, and to shoot clay birds. But
upholders of “old English sports" scorn such
milk-and-water substitutes. The row is
causing derision on the Continent, and par-
ticularly in Spain. All classes in Britain
have been condemning bull-fighting for
generations.
“.Geoloin” : The early bird misses no worms
nowadays. A Bundaberg (Q.) cobbler open-
ing- new premises advertised: “The first pair
of boots left for repairs Monday morning-
will be repaired free of charge.” Passing
the shop at daybreak on the date men-
tioned, I noticed a pair of boots tied to the
knob of the door. There was a massage
sticking out of one: “Boots want soles and
heels, patch side of left boot, renew stitch-
ing on both boots. Left at this door 12.15
a.m. Monday.” I took mine home again.
■J.: * * *
“Ex-P.8.1.” : “2nd Divvy” might re-adjust
his ideas (B. 29/7/’3l) about the “humane-
ness” of gas warfare if he visited Bandwick
Military Hospital. Sixty per cent, of the
cases there are the results of gas. The state-
ment that only 3 per cent, of gas-poisoning
casualties were fatal is utterly misleading.
Thousands of ex-soldiers have died of T.B. in
the last 13 years, and of all contributory
causes to the development of the disease gas
was far the most common.
“sth Brigade M. 0.”: As one whose duty if
has been to examine and treat returned
soldiers suffering from the after-affects of
gas, I differ altogether from “2nd Divvy.” If
Repat. could furnish statistics concerning the
number of men who have died as the result
of gas since the war the figure would far
exceed 21 per cent. The 170,0(X) gas casual-
ties mentioned include presumably all cases,
whether gassed by chlorine-, mustard- or even
tear-gas. -Should another war come only the
most deadly varieties will be employed. “2nd
Divvy’s” masked billiard-players were not
representative of the general attitude of the
armies to gas alarms; their gas-masks must
have been a much better fit than most I saw
and wore to allow them to see the balls at all.
# * *
“Spare Corp.”: Paragraphs about aged
Diggers recall an experience of my own. I
was acting as escorting n.c.o. for a party
of men transferred to another unit and
noticed, as I was handing over, a young
fellow named Darling being greeted affec-
tionately by a grizzled chap who had
obviously claimed his transfer—there was a
regulation permitting that. “Your dad?” I
asked the youngster, in a spare moment.
“No,” he replied, “my grandfather; my
father was killed at Fleurbaix.” I never
got any further details, for I was called to
take charge of the men who had to go back
with me, but I never heard of any other
case of three generations in the A.I.F.
# * * *
“Dope”: The Amanita fungus lias been
employed for ages as an intoxicant by many
peoples other than “the dwellers in the
forests of north-eastern Asia” 18. 5/8/’3l).
It was certainly known to the ancient
Greeks, and there is some warrant for
attributing the Delphic oracles and other
inspired pronouncements to the influence of
the vegetable, or some stimulant closely akin
to it. It is common in England, and on it
11. G. Wells has built one of the best of those
inimitable short stories of his earlier years,
“The Purple Pilens.” There are few racier
things in humorous literature than the story
of the little cockney shopkeeper, who, scorned
by a masterful wife and her unpleasant
friends, attempts to commit suicide by eat-
ing what he thinks is a poisonous mushroom.
His return on the w’ings of insane intoxica-
tion and the effective rout of his enemies
follows as the day the night.
THE DINKUM STUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘That’s the stuff to give ’em,’ shouted a Labor
member as Mr. Laug concluded a furious tirade
against the Legislative Council for its amendments
to the Public Service Salaries Reduction Bill.”
Vituperation, fierce and shrill,
At one and all directed
Who will not let you work your will
The way that you expected ;
No argument except the kind
They call the ad captandum;
Abuse intemperate and blind —
Yes, that’s the stuff to hand ’em.
Let bitter comminutions fly
At legislative fetters;
A curse on brutal banks that shy
At. loans to broken debtors;
Bounce, braggadocio, tearful plaint
Or frenzied yell for freedom
To do the things you would —and mayn’t—
Aye, that’s the tack to feed ’em.
Your part’s anathemas to squeal
At others for your pickle ;
To bang the drum of class appeal
The groundlings’ ears to tickle;
And —what’s the phrase a diva struck
About the arts that bring ’em,
Those crowded houses? “Sing ’em muck !”
Yes, muck’s the thing to sing ’em.
The giant’s loud Fee-Fi-Fo-Fum;
The rant that rends and rages;
The good old soapbox pabulum
That echoes down the ages;
The stock-in-trade of many a Gade —
The world wall ne’er outlive ’em;
The murky Limehouse gasconade—
Aye, that’s the stuff to give ’em.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“2nd. Divvy” : Of all the absurdities that
disfigure the talkies I nominate the shooting-
form of the gunmen as the most incredible.
In “The Silent Six” a Dago leaves his job
at a slaughter-yard for bootlegging. He
starts dropping enemies with his revolver
almost at once, and never registers a miss
thereafter. Yet revolver-shooting takes a
good deal more learning than, say, golf, as
anyone who did a revolver-course in the war
will testify. At my school, after a fort-
night’s fairly constant-practice, the students
could only hit the trench dummies in vital
spots about once in five times. The odds
against a neophyte dropping an armed enemy
on the move —a feat that film revolver-
wielders accomplish every time —would have
been about the same as those against a
beginner at golf bringing off a 200-yard drive
WOMAN’S WORK IS NEVER DONE.
“I saw you—you let him kiss you!”
“Let him ? Gee! I had to help him!”
down the fairway before a gallery. Revolver-
school instructors usually gave a significant
bit of advice as the farewells were being
made: “But don’t you worry about shooting
’im. ’lt ’im with the barrel. An’ remem-
bor the army revolver-shot’s first rule:
‘Always ’it with the barrel, and never let
go the stock.’ ”
■** * *
“Oxmead”: Some highbrow the other day
declared that it gave him a pain to hear
Lawson spoken of as “the Australian Burns.”
I don’t quite know why, for Henry cer-
tainly had more in common with Robert
than any other British writer. His vogue is
derived from the fact that ho came of the
people and wrote about them and for
them, in language they understood. And
with much of the Burns outlook he had at
least a touch of the Burns genius, though
it is too soon to say more than that. Of
course there were other resemblances, and,
seeing that they couldn’t but influence his
writings, there is no reason why they should
be ignored. Burns’s latest biographer records
that he died in mortal terror of being-
arrested for a debt of £5 which he owed to
an unsympathetic haberdasher —“yet now his
statue is in every metropolis.”
* * * *
“Machete” : Queensland has long been noted
for its handling of the problem of the blind,
deaf and dumb. The State school for chii-
dren at Dutton Park claims
that it can now teacli dumb
children to speak, provided they
are caught early and are fairly
intelligent. Deaf children are
taught to understand speech by
an intensive method of lip-read-
ing. This presents no great
difficulties: before the talkies
came many people were able to
discern what movie actors were
saying by watching their lips,
even when the words spoken by
the shadow figures were by no
means what one would have
expected from the context of
the story. One pathetic touch
attaches to the blind division.
A visitor after dark saw a boy
busily working in the garden
which these children maintain.
“How can he carry on in this
light?” said the visitor. “Day
and night are the same to him,”
was the reply.
sjs sj« #
“Tcepy”: The other day an
aeronaut dropped 1000 feet be-
fore pulling the cord to release
his parachute, and landed safe-
ly. The thing that bothers me
is that for 40 years as a
dominie I taught young Austra-
lians that mountaineers drop-
ping a few hundred feet were
dead before they crashed, and
that it was the fall that killed
them, not the stop. An emi-
nent medical authority had
demonstrated to the satisfaction
of all his learned brethren that
terrific velocity through the
atmosphere caused suffocation,
plus displacement of the heart
—it was all set forth in a leading scientific
journal, and who was I to cast doubts on
it? Until the parachutist arrived, obviously
no one could disprove it.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Yet another Hindu has
been hanged in India for murdering a Gov-
ernment official. The cause of the disquieting
increase in crime of this kind is undoubt-
edly to be found in the altered method of
dealing with offenders. Nowadays the
body of the assassin is handed over
to his people to be burned, so he
will die happy in the thought that his
soul will be given a fair start in the new
life. In a less “humanitarian” age the corpse
was buried with a piece of beef in the mouth,
thus ensuring eternal damnation in some
horrible reincarnation. In the case of
Moslems, the patient was turned off with a
pigskin over his shoulders, and that meant
eternal .Tehannum for him. In the Mutiny
days prisoners were blown to smithereens
from the cannon’s mouth. Islam believes in
a corporeal resurrection, and the impossi-
bility in such circumstances of picking up
the pieces on the Day of Judgment, when
everyone will be in a liurry, is obvious. Not
so much was heard then of sahibs being-
assassinated.
■!•
“Whitehall” : The Dean of Newcastle said
recently: “I believe that the root of the
trouble [with the talkies] is that Holly-
wood is controlled by a small group of men,
chiefly of Oriental stock.” ll'ow old-
fashioned ! Radio, the biggest film-organi-
sation in the world, hasn’t a Jew on its
board. The key men are J. D. Rockefeller,
jun. (who is a church elder or something
similar). Owen D. Young and General Har-
bor'd. Most of the Paramount and First
National money is Christian nowadays,
England will have spent £2,000,000 on new
talkies inside 12 months by the end of the
year if present arrangements are adhered
to, and the figure may be much bigger. No
British industry has grown so quickly in
so short a time, and hardly any of the capi-
tal is Hebrew. Most of it belongs to fashion-
able Londoners who were induced to back
British pictures when the Prince began
campaigning for the silents in 1927. Judea
hi probably not so strong to-day in the pic-
tures as it was in the show business when
the theatre started to wilt. It is another
example of an interesting world-pheno-
rnenon—the Yid’s tendency to be bested by
REVENGE.
LITTLE DORIS (sobbing): “When I say me prayers to-night I’m going to ask God not to
send you any more little sisters —you don’t know how to treat t’em.”
the Goy in really important struggles. Who
won in the fight for financial supremacy
between the New York banks during the war?
Not Otto Kahn but Morgan. Who are the
solidest men in every great white country?
Not the Rothschilds or Sassoons, but
Christian car-makers and oil-monopolists in
the U.S.A., aperitif- and soap-makers in
France, and landlords in Britain. There
isn’t a Jew 7 in the U.S.A. who is half as
rich as Andrew Mellon (Secretary of the
Treasury), and the late Solly Joel, boomed
for years as the wealthiest man in Britain,
turned out to be worth no more than
£1,000,000 —a fleabite to a Scotch whisky-
magnate.
*!» * *!*
“D.”: Some of the best produce-retailing
farmlets round Sydney are on the road con-
necting the Spit with French’s Forest. But
it is a “second-class road,” and badly
w r eather-ridged, so motorists shun it, and
retailers along the speedways score. Hun-
dreds of N.S.W. districts are in the same
plight, and in the present condition of the
State’s finances nothing is likely to be done
about it for years. In Russia every country
dweller between IS and 45 has to give six
days a year to his local roads, and the results
are said to be astonishing. A cable men-
tioned the other day that the inhabitants of
Montpellier (France) had volunteered to
mend their roads by the ancient “corvee” sys-
tem, which operates at Norfolk Island. The
scheme would pay in many parts of Aus-
tralia. What’s the sense in displaying goods
for sale in markets that buyers won’t visit?
* $ # *
“Adelaide”: The remarkable community-
owned hotel at Renmark (S.A.) has declared
a profit of £2500 for the past year, and
divided it among the local school, hospital
and charities. All parties in the fruit-
growing town carry on the good work with
plenty of spirit. About £19,000 was taken
across the bar.
=? * $ !|t
“Soho”: Curious how long it takes an
anatomical word to force itself into the
language. “Guts” as a synonym for resolu-
tion or courage has managed it in our time,
after overcoming strenuous opposition. At
the end of last century it was rank slang ;
nowadays even parsons may use it, as many
do. Yet the verb “to gut,” with its expres-
sive implications, arrived two centuries
sooner. Macaulay fixes the date. When the
Prince of Orange reached London in 1688.
the mob fell on various buildings which King
James’s activities had rendered obnoxious,
and, amongst other structures, the King’s
printing house, “to use a coarse metaphor
which then for the first time came into use,
was completely gutted.”
, ❖ i’fi I*i
“Bluebottle” : These thrifty Governments !
Some weeks ago many Bananaland police-
men who tapped their own typewriters for
official work asked the Higher-Ups for an
allowance for the use of the machines. The
request, coming at a time when the northern
State is cutting administrative costs to the
bone, was firmly turned down. The John
Hops advertised their typewriters for sale as
a protest, the number offered in the Rock-
hampton district alone being 28. The Gov-
ernment then ordained that in future these
official reports, voluminous documents in
many cases, must be written in pen and ink.
J.l-I. is still considering his next move.
* * * »
“Bumble Bee”: In most municipal coun-
cils there is a well-established method and
a set phrase for dealing with communica-
tions which are regarded as unworthy of
an answer. Somebody moves that the letter
be “received,” and the offending missive is
therewith consigned to the waste-paper basket.
When the Newtown (Sydney) Council cir-
cularised all other municipal bodies in N. S.
Wales asking for their co-operation in a
protest against Governor Game’s refusal to
swamp the Leg. Council with Lang nominees,
it is safe to conclude that in the overwhelm-
ing majority of cases the proposition was
merely “received.” But the Macquarie Shire
Council set a new precedent by unanimously
resolving (1) that the letter should be
burned, as being an insult to the intelligence
of the recipients, and (2) that the Newtown
Council should be informed how contemp-
tuously its suggestion had been treated. The
next move is with the Newtowners. If these
aggrieved gentlemen merely decide to cremate
the contumelious reply, it will seem rather
a feeble tu quoque. Yet it is difficult to see
what more they can do with it.
“Suspercoll” : Extreme youth and advanced
age are perhaps the commonest of all reasons
why convicted murderers escape the gallows.
Probably only the latter consideration saved
the neck of Buckley, the Melbourne criminal,
who dodged justice for so long. Even among
those who question the advisability of abol-
ishing capital punishment there is a certain
reluctance at the idea of hanging a _youth
who has his whole lifetime before him, or
an old man who has a few years at most —
a quite illogical combination of ideas, but
human enough in its way. Yet sentimen-
tality carries less weight in England, where
a navvy of 77 paid the extreme penalty
the other day. There is no record of anyone
of such advanced years ever having been
executed in Australia.
* * * *
“Narara”: How’s this for a hurried
euphemism? I was standing in an iron-
monger’s when a young man accompanied by
two young women came in and asked for a
file. To the query “What sort?” he replied,
“One of those dead rough ones.” He was
shown a rasp but shook his head. “I want
one of those dead rough ones,” he repeated,
w T ith a sidelong glance at his companions.
A gleam of comprehension came into the
ironmonger’s eye, and he produced a bastard
file and placed it before his customer, who
promptly made the purchase.
* ' • t- *
Dear Bulletin, —Since “A. A. Carrier,”
of Detroit (Mich.), is permitted (B. 5/S/’3l)
to throw stones at us from his glass
house, I think somebody ought to be allowed
to throw a few back. “Australia,” he says,
“is not only a land which has repudiated
its bonds, but one that sees nothing amiss
with advertising whisky and licensing pros-
titutes.” Whose bonds have we repudiated?
And does “A. A. Carrier” think it would be
better for us to have prostitutes and not
license them, and to have whisky and not
advertise it —d la U.S.A.? We have never
enslaved negroes, nor fought a bloody war
for the continuance of slavery, nor repu-
diated our debts as the Southern States did,
absolutely. And I don’t know that the
deadly sin of smoking by women is an im-
portation so far as U.S.A. is concerned. Our
women learnt it mostly from Yankee film
actresses. And the rest of the world was
corrupted originally through Sir Walter
Raleigh, who brought the habit from —
America. —Yours etc., A. W. Mclnnes.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: The grievances of the
Indian Home Rulers are interestingly like
those that the Gladstonian Liberals and
Irish Nationalists used to voice on behalf
of Erin. Gandhi said recently, “Indian
industries have been destroyed or sup-
pressed and the country made a market for
the British manufacturer.” The “restraints”
were said to have prevented Ireland from
becoming a manufacturing country during
several centuries. The woollen industry was.
in Lord Dufferin’s phrase, “seized, gagged
and bound in the interests of London.”
Gandhi has made a similar complaint about
his country’s linen industry. It was a griev-
ance with the Irish for centuries that, from
the Viceroy downwards, all the best-paid
officials came from England. This is still
•V grievance with the Indian upheavalists.
Young men who weren’t able to do much
good for themselves in England used to be
sent to Ireland when there was still money
to be made there; hence the sneer, “Ireland
will be his hinder end.” India is said to be
getting a fair number now. Some of the
Irish objected to the presence of British
garrisons; so do some of the Indians. Lor’!
Sheffield (“Union Tracts,” April, 1799)
w’rote: “We arc an English colony governing
upwards of 3,000,000 Irish, or at least six
times our own number.” Gandhi and his
followers are always sneering at “the tiny
English colony in India.” One could go
on drawing analogies for a column or so.
THE MODERN TEC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Two squads of Sydney detectives, after a week’s
strenuous hunt terminating in two dramatic arrests,
bundled their prisoners into cars, charged them at
the police station, hurried upstairs and re-appeared
in dinner suits, debonair and smiling. It was the
night of the Police Ball.”
The old-time sleuth was a bloodhound grim.
With the stealthy ferret’s habits
As it slips through the burrows deep and
dim
On the trail of the fleeing rabbits.
He did all his bunny-hugging there,
And, however he spent his leisure,
It wasn’t, a man may safely swear,
In treading a ballroom measure.
Say, isn’t it strange how fashions change
And tempora mutantur?
The modern ’tec, when his man he lags,
In a trice is into his gladsome rags
And off to the hop instanter.
He has lodged the thug or the thief in jug—
And a zealous cop they rate him—
Now the light that lies in a woman’s eyes
And the smile on her lips await him.
The good right arm that the bracelets placed
On the wrists of some crook abhorrent
Will fit as well round a damsel’s waist
As they whirl around, I’ll warrant.
The voice that rang at the razor gang
And quelled their sullen fury,
Is it whispering honeyed nothings now,
With gentle hand-clasp and courtly bow,
To some receptive houri?
The old-time sleuth was a hard-boiled egg,
With ways direct and drastic;
I doubt if he ever shook a leg
In the so-called light fantastic.
And wheresoever he took his ease
When he’d finished his daily racket,
It wasn’t with jazz’s devotees
In pumps and a dinner-jacket.
But why should he reck, the modern ’tec,
Of that or care a button?
He goeth forth and lie grabs his man,
And next, with the very same elan,
Lines up to grab his mutton.
And faith! there is consolation in
The thought that if e’er I’m lumbered,
As Eugene Aram was at Lynn
That night when the urchins slumbered,
When the gyves upon my wrists are fixed,
If such persuasion’s needed,
At least I shall not walk betwixt
“Two stern-faced men”—as he did.
They’ll be blithe, the pair, and debonair;
My firm belief, in fact, is
That the merry souls by whom I’m towed
Will want to waltz along the road
To keep their hoofs in practice.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remittid. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
HR
Very heavily silverplated
Entr6e I >ish, with detach-
able handle, llin. long ..
66/-
Country orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
SPECIAL VALUE
IN ENGLISH-MADE
HEAVILY PLATED
ENTREE DISH
Landed before the Act prohibiting
the importation of silverplate be-
came effective, and representing an
exceptional purchase, these Eng-
lish-made Entree Dishes are extra-
lieavily silverplated on hard, white
metal, and will wear like silver for
over 20 years. Each dish is
branded with our name. Take
advantage of this opportunity to
secure a high-quality Entree Dish
at a most favorable price.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
"'ll
I THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
4$
6fk
*7
e
è
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Bob McGregor, of Ballarat, who passed
out at 78 in Melbourne last week, was for
30 years (1894 to 1924) member for Bal-
larat East in Vic. Assembly. He was an
Honorary Minister under George Turner
and Alec Peacock in the early years of this
century, and Chairman of Committees from
1918 to 1921. Some of his repartees are still
remembered. “What does the hon. member
know about stock?” queried Percy Chirnside
as Bob was discoursing in the House on
cattle. “Well, I know a bull calf when I
see one,” replied Mac. Speaker Mason’s
formula when a bill was being whisked
through its final stages and some member
unexpectedly intervened was, “What’s this?”
R. T. Vale raised some technical objection
on one of these occasions, and out came the
Speaker’s tart “What’s this?” “That’s
Mister Vale, Mr. Speaker,” cut in McGregoi
helpfully. Bob had about 50,000 yarns, all
publishable, which he liked to tell to fellow-
members.
A. D. McGill, leader of the Queensland
Bar, who is appearing for the Crown in the
Mungana case, was born at Newtown, near
Ipswich, and is still in the middle forties.
At 13 he won a scholarship which carried
him to the Ipswich Grammar School, and
six years later an exhibition opened the doors
of Sydney Uni. to him. Latin and Greek
were his early specialties, and he became
classical master at a secondary school at
Bowenfels (N.S.W.), but in his spare time
he studied law. and in 1911 was admitted to
the Queensland Bar. He had another spell
at school-teaching, this time as house-
master at Brisbane Grammar School, before
the briefs began to come; but after that he.
never looked back. He soon became known
as one of the most skilful of cross-examiners'
and a power with juries. McGill has found
time for politics, too. He took a leading
part in converting the disunited anti-Labor
forces in the State Parliament into the solid
Opposition which presently became the
Moore Government. In 1926 he stood as
a coalition candidate for South Brisbane
against Myles Ferricks, and was beaten by
only 99 votes in a heavy poll.
James Ashton, whose words carry more
weight than those of any other man
in the Ma State’s Upper House, has
been there for 24 years. Before that he
had 14 years in the Assembly, where he
represented Hay and Goulburn successively.
.Toe Carruthers gave him the Lands portfolio
in Joseph’s 1904-07 Ministry, and an excel-
lent administrator he proved; and on trans-
ferring to the Council he became an honorary
Minister under Wade (1907-09). Ashton
was born at Geelong 67 years ago,
and as a young man was the power behind
JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.
the pen on various country papers, including
the “Riverina Gazette” and the “Narrandera
Argus.” Some years after he had settled
down to politics he was called to the Bar,
but has never practised. During the war he
did great work for the Red Cross and in
1920 he was chairman of a commission
appointed by the Federal Government to look
into Federal and State taxation. The four
Ashtons who toured England and America
as a polo team are his sons.
Dead at Christchurch, the best-known
painter in Maoriland, William Menzies Gibb.
He was born in Scotland 72 years ago, and
migrated to Australia as a youth. He got
his art training at Melbourne Gallery be-
tween 1880 and 1883, and from his father,
John Gibb, also an artist by profession.
W. M. Gibb, though as a means of livelihood
he turned out acres of potboilers, was a
capable landscape painter, both in oils and
water-color, and the best of his transcripts
of the picturesque countryside and seashore
in the vicinity of his home town are well
worthy of the places accorded them in public
collections. He was a cheerful, friendly soul,
who found peace and happiness in his art,
and apart from that liked best a good game
of bowls.
Neil Macrossan, who is appearing for ex-
Premier McCormack in the Mungana case, is
one of a family famed in Bananaland politics
and law. Like his brother, Hugh, who was
raised to the Supreme Court Bench when
Justice Lukin transferred to the Federal
Arbitration Court, he is a brilliant advocate
and a formidable cross-examiner. He was a
notable scholar and athlete at Nudgee Col-
lege, where he was a contemporary of his
NEIL MACROSSAN, counsel for
ex-Premier McCormack.
chief opponent in the present case, Attorney-
General Macgroarty. The father of the able
pair, the late John Murtagh Macrossan, was
a prominent figure in Queensland politics in
the closing years of last century, when Griffith
and Mcllwraith were political rivals. “Honest
John” held office on several occasions under
Mcllwraith and Morehead, succeeding the
latter as Premier for a brief period in 1890.
Colonel H. P. Phillips, who died in Bris-
bane last week, was one of a well-known
Brisbane musical family and himself a
violinist of considerable talent. An engineer
by profession, he left Brisbane for France
in 1916 in charge of the 3rd Pioneer Bat-
talion, and his active service brought him
the D.S.O. and M.C. A notable feat of his
command was the repair of the bridge over
the Somme at Peronne under heavy fire.
Robert Hammond, Sydney’s doughtiest
temperance fighter and one of its hardest
workers in all philanthropic movements,
went another step up the ecclesiastical
ladder last week when he was elected to the
vacant canonry at St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
scoring 112 votes out of 167 polled. The
Rev. “Bob,” who has been rector of St.
Barnabas’s for the last dozen years, was born
at Brighton (Vic.) 61 years ago, and was
captain of the C. of E. Grammar School,
Melbourne, in his day.
Victorian-born Jack Curtin, M.H.R. for
Fremantle, who has established himself as
about the best debater behind the Ministerial
benches, was quite the most stable editor
that the “Westralian Worker” ever had. He
had numerous predecessors in the job, some
of them dreadfully serious persons and
others cheerful souls, like “Milky-White”
Emerson, the sometime Bulletin versifier,
but none ever looked like lasting long—
there are more bosses on a Labor paper than
any other and it is hard to satisfy all of
them. But Curtin managed to preserve
amicable relations with boards of manage-
ment and politicians and union secretaries
alike, and put in over 10 years before the
job lifted him into a Federal Labor seat.
With all his partisanship he is tolerant, and
slow to impute unworthy motives to
opponents.
One man, at any rate, on the Common-
wealth Bank board knows something about
bank amalgamations and absorptions. J.
Mackenzie was general manager of the
Bank of North Queensland when it joined
with the Royal to make the Bank of Queens-
land, and he was still g.m. when that bank
merged into the National of Australasia.
He didn’t join the latter, and so was avail-
able as a director when the Commonwealth
Bank was given a board. At the beginning
Andy Fisher had offered him the governor-
ship.
Bob Buck, bushman, prospector, explorer
and owner of Tempo Downs and Middle-
ton Plains in Centralia, is just now busy
dodging the motor-cars in Sydney. It was
he who discovered the body of the luck-
less prospector Lasseter, and prior to that
he had been responsible for the establish-
ment of a base camp for the Mackay expedi-
tion, .some 300 miles north-west of Alice
Springs. He is in Sydney to conduct the
expedition which leaves shortly to locate
the reef that Lasseter claimed to have dis-
covered.
.T. A. Lindsay, chief engineer of the Broken
Hill Prop., has left the old mine for good and
gone down to his farm in South Aus. It was
in 1886 that Lindsay, who had that far never
seen a mine in his life, went up by coach
from Terowie to a show that a man named
Jamieson was managing at a place called
Broken Hill; and he stayed on under Wilson,
Patten, Howell, Stewart, Delprat and Lewis.
Lindsay was once lent to the Newcastle
steelworks for a couple of years; apart
from that he has spent the 45 years on what
was once the Big Mine and to-day is the
Great Silence.
Katharine Susannah Prichard, whose
“Coonardoo” won a £5OO prize in The Bul-
letin’s first Novel Competition, has written
some of the best longish short-stories ever
printed in this paper. Jonathan Cape, of
London, will shortly publish a collection of
them under the title “Kiss on the Lips.”
Philip Snowden is likely to be opposed by
a Maorilander for his Yorkshire seat at
the next elections. The prospective candi-
date approved by the local Conservatives is
Lieut.-Colonel Edward Ward Lascelles,
who, born in Maoriland in 1880, saw
service in the Boer War with the M.L.
Mounted Rifles, later joined the 3rd Dragoon
Guards as a lieutenant, and rose to his present
rank. He was an A.D.C. to Kitchener, and
was with the 2nd Australian Division at
Anzac.
From the Speck’s press gallery:—
The seven new men on the Government side in
the Speck’s new Assembly are all elderly and have
probably arrived in the House too late in life to
make a stir. Seabrook (Franklin) and Lew Atkin-
son (Wilmot) have, of course, had Federal experi-
ence. Barber (Bass) lived a long time in India, and
is in Tasmania for peace, not perspiration. Butler
(Darwin) is a bluff old chap suspected of a sense
of humor, and apparently unawed by party shibboleths.
Burrbury (Wilmot) is a sheep-man, and may be
expected to follow the party bell-wether along the
line of least resistance. His dad, also a serious-
minded and likeable brother, served short sentences
in Parliament long ago. Murphy (Bass), though
a farmer, is a grim Cassius-like person, with a gleam
in his deep-set eyes that suggests zealotry. Turner
(Denison) is rather younger than the average and far
the best equipped. But his conscientious efforts to live
up to a police-magistrate’s reputation in a political
atmosphere will probably tax all his patience and
disturb his grave suavity. Of the three new Labor
men, D’Alton (Bass) seems likeliest to achieve promi-
nence; Dwyer, V.C. (Franklin), is modestly non-
assertive and sparing of words; Mahoney (Denison)
runs to the opposite extreme. Opposition-leader
Ogilvie, K.C., is the dominant intellectual force on
the Labor side; Lyons, even in his best day, never
held such sway, though his influence with non-Labor
members was greater than Ogilvie’s is ever
likely to be. The paramount influence on the Minis-
terial side is undoubtedly wielded by Lands Minister
Lee.
Both Theodore and McCormack got into
Parliament via the A.W.U. Ted was first
an organiser and then president of the
Queensland branch; Bill was general secre-
tary. Both used to describe themselves as
miners; neither ever did very much in that
way, but Bill did rather more than Ted.
Bill was born in St. Lawrence, back o’
Queensland; Ted at Pt. Adelaide. Ted is
still only 48 : Bill is 53. Ted beat Bill to
Ex-Premier MCCORMACK, a defendant in
the Mungana case.
the House by three years ; but the day Ted
got his first portfolio Bill was reckoned
seasoned enough to be made Speaker—that
was in 1915, three years after his first elec-
tion to the House. Bill found a better ’ole
as Home Sec. in 1919; then Ted found Ms
better ’ole down south (1927), and Bill took
the northern Premiership.
E. 11. Greensill, dead in Queensland the
other day at 68, was one of the best-known
surveyors in the State, and had a hand in
the making of most of the North Queens-
land railways. Before his retirement some
years ago fie was engineer in charge of all
State survey work. English born, he was
a first cousin of the late Lord Roberts.
Glasgow-born Jimmy Mollison, who has
just beaten Scott’s Australia-to-England fly-
ing record, first got into l a cockpit when he
was 17 and has scarcely been out of one in
the nine years since. He was with the R.A.F.
for five years, one year as an instructor,
served in India, then piloted passenger ’planes
between Monte Carlo and Corsica until he
was lured by the fame of Kingsford Smith,
JIMMY MOLLISON , the record-breaking
airman.
Ilinkler and other Australians and the coun-
try’s reputation for first-class flying condi-
tions. For a year he was instructor to the
S. A. Air Club; then he flew the Adelaide-
Port Lincoln run, and next settled down with
Kingsford Smith as a senior nilot of Aus-
tralian National Airways. lie made an
earlier attempt at a record flight to England,
but that time crashed at Darwin.
After Mary Gilmore has got rid of “The
Hue Tree,” which is to be on the book-
shop-shelves this month, she is sitting down
to finish “Recollections.” This is to cover
more ground than any but one woman in a
million can hope to get over. Mary Gilmore
was the daughter of a friend of the blacks
and grew up among them; she. was one of
the first schoolteachers at Silverton and
Broken Kill; she went to Paraguay with the
New Australians; she got down into Pata-
gonia ; she came back to Australia —to pub-
lish a dozen books, and as one of Australia’s
best-known women journalists to meet most
public people worth meeting in the last 30
years.
George Crisp, dead in Tasmania at 82, was
for years one of Queensland’s leading flour-
millers. Born in Lincolnshire, he came
to Australia young and gradually built up a
reputation in the Vic. flour trade. He went
to Queensland as milling engineer for a firm
at Warwick on the Darling Down's, and later
formed a company of his own in the same
town. Mills in Toowoomba and Brisbane
followed, while his time apart from his active
business was devoted to wheat culture. He
supplied seed for and supervised the plant-
ing of the first summer-grown crop of wheat
in Queensland 30 years ago, an innovation
which has since had important results.
E. J. Ashcroft, dead untimely in Nowra
(N.S.W.) at 38, was a prominent man
in the Shoalhaven district and a notably
popular one. A grand-nephew of the late
William Tyson, he held office in most of the
pastoral and agricultural organisations of the
district, being president of the Shoalhaven
A. and H. Society, while he was also a
member of the Nowra Council. In his day
he was a fine all-round athlete, and repre-
sented N.S.W. against Queensland at tennis
under J. O. Anderson some years ago.
Passed out at 75, Robert Davidson, once
M.L.A. for Hastings-Maclcay—he sat for
nine years—in the N.S.W. Assembly. He
came to Australia from Scotland as a par-
son, gave up the church for journalism, and
then, struck his real niche in life as a breeder
of dairy cattle.
Old John Quigg, who has passed into
realms where time is not, was the possessor
of an amazing collection of clocks, which
made his cottage a Mecca for curious visi-
tors when he was caretaker of the Botany
(Sydney) cemetery—he retired a couple of
years ago. Quigg possessed 700 clocks, most
of them in going order; among them was
the first Sydney G.P.O. timepiece. It took
most of his spare time to keep them all
wound up.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 129,578 . 64 p.c. = 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922.. 127,196 7 „ „ 84,000 43,196 323,587
1923.. 130,678 7 „ 84,000 46.678 370,265
1924.. 133,253 7 „ „ 84,000 49,253 419,518
inscribed deposits of £958,307 exchanged
for fully-paid shares, of which £638,872
were issued, the balance, £319,435,
being added to reserves .. .. 738,953
Premiums on new shares, £441 .. 739,394
1925.. 170,766 74 p.c.= 115,600 55,166 794,560
1926.. 197.943 8 „ „ 147,200 50,743 845,303
Premiums on new shares, £131,120.. 976,423
1927.. 208,067 8 p.c. = 157,827 50,240 1,026,663
Premiums on new shares, £6BBO .. 1,033,543
1928.. 216,742 8 p.c. = 176,640 40,102 1,073,645
1929.. 218,545 8 „ ~ 176,040 41,905 1,115,550
1930.. 180,693 7 „ ~154,560 26,133 1,141,683
1931.. 84,904 4 „ ~ 88,320 1,138,267
Steady expansion of the business, the ex-
change of scrip for inscribed deposit stock
and a lift in the div. from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c.
sent, tlie £1 shares past 30s. in 1925. After
that, prospects of new share issues, hopes
of a further lift in the div. and rumors of
amalgamation, first with a local and later
with an OA'erseas bank, kept the figure fluc-
tuating between 30,5. and 395. until the end
of ’29; it was back to 225. at the close of
accounts in ’3O, when the div. was dropped
to 7 p.c. again.
Meantime, the boom-producing loans from
overseas and high prices for our staples van-
ished, and Nemesis tarried but a little while.
Incomes and values have toppled in all direc-
tions, thus freezing market outlets and secu-
rities ; unemployment is the greatest in our
history, trade is stagnant, costs are stub-
born, bankruptcies are frequent, especially
amongst small traders, the primary, second-
ary and distributive industries are sorely
tried, and the cheap-jack Government of
N. S. Wales has produced a crisis in the
finances of the State.
So the board, which claims to have adopted
a safety-first policy, put the year’s profit
£95,789 short of the 1930 figure, which
means 3.8 p.c. on capital as against 8.1, 9.9,
9.8, 10.5, 10.7 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1925;
also the final div. was reduced to 3 p.c.
p.a., making 4 p.c. for the year, reserves
being visibly tapped for £3416 to do it.
Hence the scrip has eased to 14s. 2d. on the
market; the yield at that, price is 4.2 p.c. on
a 3 p.c. div. basis, and the backing 30s. 3d.
in net tangibles.
A 5 p.c. div. would call for only 3.3 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined, which
would be easy enough under settled condi-
tions. But political wrangling as to which
should come first, economy or cheap money,
and Mr. Lang’s clumsy plan have prevented
the revival of business activity on the basis'
of lower costs, thus making the future very
uncertain. Such a revival would improve
the security for existing advances, increase
the demand for fresh loans on sounder
security and further relieve the pres-
sure of the expensive fixed deposits, on
which interest w T as recently reduced by 1
p.c. Old deposits will continue to maturity
at the old rates, so a prompt cut of 1
p.c. in the change for advances will mean a
loss of earnings; still, the banks gained
when the change in. rates was the other way
about.
Last year there was a sharp contraction
of £2,162,572 in deposits, due mainly to
withdrawals by the N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank :
Liabilities.
Inscribed Other
Deposits. Deposits. Liabilities.
1910 .. £1,859,022 £1,716,477 £762,813
1920 .. 1,413,657 8,108,526 1,063,051
1924 .. 1,245,116 10,342,440 1,250,361
1925 .. 244,079 11,294,435 1,149,263
1927.. Nil 13,201,514 1,859,653
1928 .. Nil 14,018,935 1,234,553
1929 Nil 14,714,138 1,854,760
1930 . . Nil 13,353,280 985,267
1931 '. . Nil 11,190,708 695,581
According to the last quarterly return about
59.3 p.c. of the deposits were interest-
bearing.
To meet the drain liquids were tapped
for £1.12(1,221. and £1,374.462 of advances
were got in :
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1910 .. £1,185,979 £3,754,889 £367,727
1920 . . 4,374,093 7,176,809 499,145
1925 ... 5,823,601 9,123,345 433,991
1927 .. 6,537,933 11,463,057 365,306
1928 .. 6,851,973 11,406,260 365*220
1929 . . 6,656,117 12,913,155 411,496
1930 . . 4,566,347 12,795,307 403,855
1931 .. 3,440,126 11,420,845 404,705
Still, advances were 102 p.c. of the deposits
as against 95,8 p.c. at the previous balance,
and liquids, of which £2,022,382 was cash
and money at, call, amounted to 28.9 p.c.
of the liabilities. After providing for the
fall in the market, public securities figured
at £460,492. When the books closed the
bank was holding only £3 11s. of the public’s
money for cilery £1 of its own. It is a com-
fortable position, but means moderate earn-
ing poAver.
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£> £>£, •£,
1921.. 271,803 13J p.c. = 100,000 171,803 1,099,010
1922.. 52,592 134 „ ~ 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~ 106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,007,312
1924. . 186,257 124 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~ 118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 . . 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125,000 83,617 1,139.267
1927.. 244,172 124 ~131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
What a sweet thing it has been for share-
holders is made plain by the fact that no less
than £1,200.000 of the £1,500,000 of capital
has been transferred from reserves. These were
last raided shortly after the close of accounts
in 1930, when £300.000 (4s. per share) was
taken to make the scrip fully-paid to 20s.
Though the div. has been reduced to 10 p.c.
it called for £6250 more than the previous
year’s 11.9 p.c., and three times as, much
as 13J p.c. did in 1920. Further, it is
encouraging to note that the returns from
investments —£140,296 last year—have fol-
lowed close on the heels of advancing divi-
dend charges for more than a decade, leaving
the underwriting surpluses mostly available
to fatten the investments and the returns
therefrom. Still, since we appear to be in
for a period of loiver values, and, when the
present crisis is over, probably cheap money
rates, gift issues can be expected to become
less frequent.
The fall in the value of properties and
commodities, skeleton stocks carried by mer-
chants, smaller pay rolls and the slump in
motor-car business caused the evaporation of
considerable insurance value last year. Also
disturbed conditions in India and China, and
the fall in the price of silver, affected returns
from the co.’s business in those quarters.
Thus there was a slip of £54,125 in net
premiums:—
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900. . £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 57.2 27.9
1906.. 565,149 | 1129,361 111.9 22.0
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1925.. 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1927. . 1,121,425 664,684 338,588 59.3 30.2
1928. . 1,150,232 694,344 361*,367 60.4 31.4
1929. . 1,183,974 724.190 362,574 61.2 30.6
1930. . 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931. . 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
*General. fSan Francisco disaster.
Also claims took an extra £3 4s. per £lOO
of net premiums. They always tend to rise
during a period of depression, partly because
things are much more inflammable when you
can’t sell them, and partly because you can’t
keep fire-prevention practices up to the
mark when you are short off money. Exes,
were got back £BB3B, despite heatier taxes,
leaving the underwriting surplus £47,814
lighter at £51,573. This, the year’s interest,
rents, etc., and an unexplained addition of
£7523 to reserves make the £199,392 of
profit shown in the table.
Policy-holders have no cause to stay awake
o’ nights, and they can get prompt assur-
ance should doubt ever assail them. Look
at these figures:—
1914. 1927. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 460,000 1,050,000 1,200,000 1,500,000
Liabilities . . 252,929 353,339 360,203 379,972
Public securi-
ties .. 521,979 1,845,803 1,981,827 2,051,971
Mortgages . . 195,409 33,967 61.625 62,000
Shares, etc. 395 9,955 122,324 158,658
Freeholds . . 349,457 409,529 425,268 417,149
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 240,249 445,023 465,710 436,137
The holding of Australian Government paper
is not specified, but most of the £2,051,971 at
which public securities appear, and it is a
conservative figure, is represented by British,
Maoriland and American bonds. Net tan-
gibles were 231 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, or 81 p.c. more than is usually con-
sidered adequate.
In the trustee branch business in hand at
May 31 aggregated £5,976.370 as against
£894,553 ten years ago. The business is
said to be profitable, but to what extent is
not. disclosed.
The scrip has a steady market around
50s. The return at 50s. is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, and the backing 355. 4d. in net tangibles.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- lte-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 18.834 2* p.c. = 12,500 6,334 35,432
1922.. 54,080 7* „ „ 37,500 16,580 52,012
1923.. 83,112 132 „ 68,750 14,362 66,374
1924.. 90,557 20 „ „ 100,000 - 56,931
1925.. 81,514 112 „ 56.250 25,264 82,195
1926.. 76,603 15 „ „ 75,000 1,603 83,798
1927.. 68,572 112,, „ 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 7* „ „ 37,500 38,574 134,694
1929.. 53,914 10 ~ „ 50,000 3.914 138,608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 53,471 8i „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,632
This co. operates the 36-mile railway link
between Broken Hill and the South Aus.
border, and its earnings depend mainly upon
the haulage of minerals and mining requi-
sites. An accumulation of zinc concentrates,
due to shipping difficulties in ’29, sent the
’3O figures up with a rush. Last year lead
stocks piled up at the Barrier, the market
being unable to absorb them, and mostly,
the zinc remained in the tailings sent under-
ground to fill worked spaces; also the Prop.,
Block 14 and Junction closed down. Indeed,
but for the exchange premium, it is doubt-
ful whether a single producer there could
continue with prices and costs as they are.
So the co.’s freights (622,013 tons) were
over 221,000 tons lighter than in the pre-
vious year, and there was a slip of £41,81S in
revenue (£145.380). Exes. (£90,953) were
got back £14,162, reducing the net shrink-
age, allowing for reserve adjustments, to
£30,832. Enough remained to show 10.6 p.c.
on capital compared with 16.8, 10.8, 15.2,
13.7 and 15.3 p.c. back to 1926; since zinc
production began again toward the close of
accounts, the final div. was lifted to the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a., making 8| p.c. for the
year—the average over the last decade is
10.6 p.c.
In 1920 capital was doubled by the issue
of £250,000 of bonus scrip, and a further
£157,200 of gift paper had been distributed
previously. But the past is no guide to the
future of this business, which depends on
the life of the field. So, to provide for repay-
ment of capital, a special fund has been
created, to which £13,847 was added last
year, making it £39,503. Compounded at 4
p.c., it would take nearly 17 years to accu-
mulate £307,000-odd (the excess of capital
over surplus liquids at June 30) at last
year’s rate of contribution. To maintain this
and pay a 10 p.c. div. net profits will need
to- average over 124 p.c. on capital.
The comfortable state of the finances is
seen in the next comparison:—
1918. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 46,250 47,568 62,484 37,292
Fixed assets . . 204,346 484,436 488,681 490,927
Fuel and stores 39,926 31,221 26,534 24,374
Sundry debtors 55,399 56,229 72,910 41,976
Cash, etc. .. 117,793 114,466 147,350 163.534
Last year debtors’ balances were reduced by
£30.934, while £25,192 was snipped off the
debt and . £10,154 added to cash, etc. The
etcetera includes £152,000 (face value) of
Government securities. The net result was
an increase of £8282 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£192,592). Fixed assets are
reported in good order.
The pound shares, priced at par a year
ago, now fetch 16s. in the market. The
return at that figure is 12.6 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, or 7.5 p.c. should the distri-
bution be reduced to 6 p.c.
G. J. Coles & Co.
r~ Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62 398
1928.-52,030 2,250 124 p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47* 410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74,996 6,193 124 p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024. . 26,043
1930.. 12,000 12* p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „ „ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Lighter purses have forced discrimination in
favor of cheaper goods, so many who used to
pass by Coles, which runs a chain of stores
with a top price of 2s. 6d., now go in. This,
a new branch at Campsie, near Sydney, and
the purchase at an unstated figure of J. H.
Coles Pty., which ran four stores in the
suburbs of Melbourne—two of them have
been closed —increased the units in the chain
to 20 and added £78,836 to last year’s turn-
over :
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 I 1928.. 10 £1,052,882
1925.. 5 372,409 | 1929.. 14 1,592,890
1926.. 6 563,466 | 1930.. 17 1,838,414
1927.. 8 837,621 | 1931.. 20 1,917,250
Thus the spring in sales was 4.5 p.c. com-
pared with 15.4 p.c. and 51 p.c. in 1930 and
1929 respectively.
Gross profits (£470,939) were £10.864
lighter, which suggests a slight reduction in
the percentage of “mark up.” There Avas a
cut of £5858 in general exes. (£383,888),
but the provision for income tax (£20,107)
was £6107 heavier, so the slip in the net
result was £11,113. After handing the profs,
their £12,000, there was enough to show
11.5 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
16.8, 18.7 and 17.8 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms, so the 2£ p.c. bonus was
dropped, leaving the div. at 10 p.c.
Quick turnover for cash is the main
pillar on which the business rests. The aim
is to clear most lines in time to pay the bill
and pocket the profit within the period
allowed under ordinary trade credit, thus
removing much of the difficulty usually-
involved in financing stocks and book
debts. Other features are low capital invest-
ment per store, and low overhead and sell-
ing exes. Well-managed chains, soundly
financed and working closely to these prin-
ciples seem likely to come through the test
of the next few years without serious
damage.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1928. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capital .. .. £288,165 £437,177 £480,000
Pref. capital . . . . 75,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . . . 11,679 20,426
Sundry creditors .. 30,613 30,649* 37,146*
Freeholds . . .. 86,300 321,085* 331,817*
Leaseholds . . . . 25,205 62,231 61,214
Fittings . . . . 31,857 90,095 94,087
Stock . . . . . . 237,914 243,406 224,345
Debtors 1,356 1,349 1,448
Cash 1,773 2,986 40,489
*Not including £130,000 due Dec., 1937, on
Bourke-street freehold.
Despite the year’s expansion, stocks were
£19,061 lighter than at the previous balance,
due mainly to increased sales of locally manu-
factured goods. This, surplus earnings,
£42,823 of fresh capital and £6497 added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors
enabled the board to make the purchase
already referred to, add £10,732 to freeholds,
wipe out the overdraft and strengthen the
cash holding by £37,503. Taking the amount
due in 1937 into the reckoning, the improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£99,136) was £32,470.
The market prices the ords. at 265. as
against 275. a year ago. The return at
the lower figure is 7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, and the backing 255. Bd. in net tan-
gibles. At 235. the 8 p.c. cum. prefs. return
7 p.c.; they are covered by £4 10s. Bd. in
net tangibles.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 26,411 6 „ ~25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 „ „ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ ~25,345 61 10,859
1925.. 30,203 7 ~29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ „ 29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.d. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 „ „ 14,081 87 12,349
Last year the weather interfered with excur-
sion traffic and unemployment thinned the
ranks, of the regulars; but the service was
curtailed, and savings were made in other
Still, the board figured net tak-
ings £5527 short of the previous year’s at a
wink over 5 p.c. on capital as against 6.9
p.c. for the previous term and 11.8 p.c. the
year before that, when circumstances were
exceptionally kind. A couple of points were
chipped off the div., reducing it to 5 p.c., and
making the average 5.7 p.c. since the recon-
struction 11 years ago.
It was then, when the price of tonnage
was at its peak, that the book value of the
fleet was multiplied by three, and scrip
paid t 0.405. was handed out for every share
paid to 15s. in the old co., which had been
a steady 13J p.c. proposition since pre-war
days. Presently values shrank and costs
mounted rapidly, so ss. a share (£140,808)
had to be slashed off capital and the fare
raised to ensure moderate dividends. On a
6 p.c. basis the writing down meant a saving
of £8448 in the annual charge for deprecia-
tion.
Whether the year’s result was any better
than admitted depends upon what capital
expenditure, if any, was charged to revenue,
and whether the allowance for depreciation
proves to be more than is necessary. On the
fleet £12,191 more was written off than was
spent, reducing its book value to £198.274:
freeholds and plant were £5lO lighter at
£45.350. Thus the board was able to add
£16,585 to liquids, which include £55.641 of
loans and cash :
1922. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Liquid assets. . £45,961 £51,158 £51.291 £67,875
Liabilities . . 47,432 9,837 5,289 3,454
Excess liabilities £1,471
Surplus liquids £41,321 £46,002 £64,422
Fixed assets. . £440,525 £269,471 £256,325 £243,621
Thus the liquid surplus is £18,420 stronger
than it was a year ago.
Dividend prospects depend largely upon
the extent to which exes, can be curbed,
and the taxgatherer is making the task more
difficult. The opening of the Harbor' bridge
will probably mean immediate competition
from road transport, though whether this will
provide, better and cheaper service than the.
boats give remains to be seen. There is. how-
ever, no reason why the co. should not run
its own ’buses if it wants to. On the market
the 10s. paid shares, priced at par a year ago,
fetch 6s. 9d. The return at that figure is
7.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 10s. sd. in net tangibles, mainly ships,
worth what they can earn.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 9,117 14 p.c. = 7,000 2,117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 164 „ „ 8,250 5,390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 ~ „ 9,500 4,269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9,500 5,789 48,970
Transferred to capital, £25,000. . 23,970
1925.. 14,145 14 p.c. r= 10,500 3,645 27,615
1926.. 13,355 16 ~ ~ 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 ~ ~ 13,500 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613. . 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 ~ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
The volume of trusts is not disclosed, but the
directors say the year’s business has been as
good as any previous one, and that the value
of new estates put on the books was nearly
a record. Yet conditions delayed; completion
of a lot of business, and affected corpus and
other commission earnings. Also there was
a lot of money represented by fine new
premises, which brought in no return for
the greater part of the term —the change over
was made in April.
The slip in earnings was £4990:
Exes. p.c.
Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 . . 26,673 14,775 55.3
1925 . . 37,467 23,322 62.2
1927 . . 47,091 27,968 59.3
1928 . . 46,963 31,162 62.8
1929 .. 54,856 30,632 55.8
1930 .. 52,328 34,364 65.6
1931 . . 47,338 35,061 73.6
Exes, were £697 heavier, due to taxation.
Thus the net result dropped to 14 p.c. on
average capital compared with 23.9, 32.3.
21, 25.5 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1926; still,
only a couple of points were chipped off
the div., reducing it to 16 p.c. That rate
will call for £14,500 on capital as it now
stands, and only twice in the last eight
years has less profit been shown. But
interest, rents, commissions, etc., are on
the down grade, and taxes are mounting;
much will depend upon the co.’s success in
letting the new premises at satisfactory
rentals.
The old Queen-street property was sold to
the London Assurance for £40,000, of which
£23,613 was profit, and this was added to
reserves. Then a freehold in Bourke-street
was bought for £52,500, and a new building
put up thereon at a cost of approxi-
mately £83,000. To see the job through
30,000 new 50s. shares called to 10s. were
put out at a premium of 10s. shortly before
the close of accounts in 1930; tints paid
capital became £90.000 in 50s. shares paid
to 10s.—the other 40s. is a reserve liability,
callable only in the event of liquidation—
and reserves were further fattened with
£15,000 of share premiums.
At June 30 there was £102,373 in books
debts, public securities and cash to meet
debts totalling £48,630 —£32,130 of it was
on mortgage, the balance overdraft. Free-
holds figured at £132,536.
The market prices the scrip at 235. as
against 295. a year ago. At the lower figure
the return is 7 p.c. on a 16 p.c. div. basis.
The backing per pound of paid capital is
19s. lid. in net tangibles.
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1925*. 17,742 10 p.c. = 11,775 5967 6,942
Loss on De Luxe Assets, £3537 .. 10,479
Goodwill, £5OOO .. .. 15,479
1926.. 74,235 174 p.c. = 46,110 ( „ ,
Profits capitalised, £27,506 1 i4 ’ Bt,u
Reserves.
General Reserves disclosed, £25,000.. 10,140
1927.. 44,111 10 p.c. 35,792 8319 18,459
Loss on De Luxe assets, £1269 .. 17,190
1928.. 20,580 Nil 20,580 37,770
1929.. 14,173 5 p.c. = 20,061 31,882
Capital returned, £100,305.
Loss on sale of assets, £2500 .. 29,382
Loss.
1930.. 8,309 Nil 21,073
Capital returned, £37,810.
1931.. 20,408 Nil 665
*8 months 17 days.
Though it was a precarious investment,
there was a great flourish of trumpets, and
early results sent the market rushing for
the pound shares, which went to 625. 6d.
But the novelty wore off, less and less money
has been spent on taxi hire, competition has
become aggressive, fares have been cut, and,
of course, operating and other exes, were
stubborn ; hence the business has been ailing
for the last four years.
Thanks, however, to the large amounts
annually set aside for depreciation, the board
was able to return ss. per share two years
ago, and a further 2s. 6d. in May last, reduc-
ing paid capital to £263,104 in 420,967
shares fully paid to 12s. 6d. each.
Unable to profitably operate the cabs
itself, the co: leased as many. as it could
on a percentage basis. The distances cov-
ered during the 12 months to June 30 aggre-
gated 3,718,313 miles, about half the
previous year’s figure, and after paying
(Continued on page 16.)


This Dunlop Perdrian Rubber Conveyor Belt at the works of
the Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd., Port Pirie,
S./i carries an average of 1329 tons of burning metal every
working day.
Making light of heavy work!
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Belt
conveys burning metal . . .
WITH decreasing prices, the responsibility of industrial manage-
ment is greater to-day than it has ever been before, and in
persistent efforts to reduce production costs, resources and
abilities are taxed to the utmost. Rigid economy is the order of the
day, and now, more than ever before, must all forms of waste be
eliminated. Out-of-date methods, too, must be discarded, and an
all-round increase in efficiency aimed for.
Plant and equipment are receiving their share of attention, and here a
knowledge by managers and engineers of the capacity and efficiency
of Dunlop-Perdriau Conveyor Belting will prove invaluable.
Tested under all conditions, the quality of Dunlop Perdriau Belts has
been proved by continuous, trouble-free service in the principal mines,
■IJ
I
A
- ' V . ** f 1 . i
MS
«®s
mi
Dunlop Perdrian Conveyor Belts at works
of Zinc Corporation Ltd., Broken Hill.
quarries, factories and mills of the Common-
wealth. Because of their established reputation,
95% of the Conveyor Belts in use throughout
Australia are by Dunlop Perdriau.
The Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co. manufactures
a complete range of Conveyor Belting which will
efficiently cover the needs of all users. Detailed
advice on choice of types and general applications
will be willingly given by the Dunlop-Perdriau
Technical Engineering Service.
Dunlop Perdriau Conveyor Belts
carrying salt at works of Cheetham
Salt Pty. Ltd., Geelong, Viet.
*
■
Dunlop Perdriau Conveyor Belt-
carrying slag, etc., at works of
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty. Ltd., Port Pirie.
Dunlop Perdriau Draining Belt at
works of Zinc Corporation Ltd.,
Broken Hill.
For maximum service at minimum cost, specify:
Dunlop Perdriau
• • • • Conveyor Belting^
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED . . . Branches All St a


è
AMP
44 John, it's a wonderful policy—it
guarantees a regular monthly income"
5iS
f{
•WM
vna/i
vfgg
M
HOW would she and the family fare if her husband
were to die?—a thought frequently in every wife’s
mind.
A man can provide for his widow’s security and comfort
by adequately assuring his life, but how to do it the best
way? That is for each man to decide for himself. A wise
man will consult one of the experienced officers of the
A.M.P.—he will ask for an officer to be sent to discuss his
problem with him. The officer will tell him the particular
advantages of each kind of policy.
For instance, a new kind of A.M.P. policy that is called
the “Monthly Income Trust Assurance Policy.”
Under this policy the assured may secure to his widow and
family (or to himself) a monthly income of £6/5/- or
£l2/10/- or any multiple of £6/5/-, for 10, 15 or 20
years as he elects. This is income from the sum assured
at the rate of 15 per cent, annually, guaranteed by the
impregnable A.M.P.
But that is not all! In addition to this regular income, all
accumulated bonuses are paid at death (or maturity) and,
at the end of the stipulated period of income, the amount of
the policy (£5OO or £lOOO, or whatever it is) is paid to
the beneficiaries.
If you want to ensure your wife and family (or yourself) a
continuity of income, you should investigate this policy.
Telephone or write for a Booklet that gives full particulars.
If you wish, an experienced officer will be sent to explain
the plan.
Remember that the A.M.P. Offers You the Best Contract
Obtainable, and the Best Security.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Assets: £83,200,000. A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, General Manager.
AMP
ordinary working and administrative exes,
only £1543 of the takings remained: —
Gross No. of
Profits. Depreciation. Cabs.
1926 .. £134,128 £65,178 392
1927 .. 121,249 80,164 502
1928 .. 98,194 74,023 502
1929 .. 62,121 48,364 538
1930 . . 31,336 39,645 ?
1931 .. 1,543 17,102 ?
Third party and passenger accident claims
made off with a further £4849, and the
charge for depreciation was £17,102; so a
loss of £20,408 showed up, reducing the
book value of reserves to £665.
What the board thinks it sees in the
future of the business it has not announced,
but it bought the Red and Checker Co.’s
fleet during the term, and £8215 net was
added to the cost of cabs, but £10,146 more
than that was written off, leaving their net
book value at £99,997: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . . . £300,914 £300,914 £263,104
Mortgage . . . .
Sundry creditors . . 104,444* 5,320 42,649
Freehold . . . . 140,594 129,616 129,616
Cabs, etc 145,358 110,143 99,997
Garage equipment . . 7,830 3,346 4,509
Tyres, uniforms, etc... 11,172 10,170 9,144
Stocks 20,312 15,644 15,782
Debtors .. . . . . 38,179 9,212 5,646
Cash, investments, etc. 93,976 49,177 41,725
*lncludes £100,305 capital returnable.
Instead of realising on Government securi-
ties (in at £38,719). the board decided “in
the interests of the community” to go to its
bankers for the £37,000-odd involved in the
return of capital. Excluding stocks, the
contraction in the liquid surplus was £48,347,
reducing it to £4722 (book value).
On the market 3s. 6d. is asked for the
scrip, which, on paper, is covered by 12s. 6d.
in net tangibles.
The Millaquin Sugar Co.
To Re-
. June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 29,022 8 p.c. = 40,uU0 118,<66
1922.. 64,025 8 „ „ 40,000 24,025 142,781
i 923. . 71,333 12 „ „ CO,OOO 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 „ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925.. 71,026 12 „ „ 60,000 11,026 173,389
1926.. 71,656 12 „ „ 60,000 11,656 185,045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ „ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 „ „ 50,000 9,849 196,678
1929.. 62,428 10 „ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 62,657 9 „ „ 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
This co. took over the sugar-milling and
-refining interests which fell into the Q. N.
Bank’s hands in the ’nineties; and the bank
still holds a wad of the scrip. Finances are
snug, of course, and with things “up to the
knocker” on the technical side the co. is
splendidly equipped to harvest whatever
profits are to be gathered from the industry.
The base price of raws for home consump-
tion has lately been £26 10s. ; but last
season’s average for the whole crop
was only £l9 13s. as against £2O ss.
10d., £2O 17s. 9d. and £22 for the three
preceding seasons; that was because of
the dulness in the world's sugar markets,
where Australia’s surplus sugar (about 40
p.c. of the output) is sold. However, nature
was kind, crushings were heavier and the
sugar content of the cane was high ; also the
new refinery which began a couple of years
ago—the old one was destroyed by fire in
1927—is fitted with the latest equipment,
and costs have benefited. So the board wrote
net earnings £2594 better than the previous
year’s at 13 p.c. on capital as against 12.5,
12.4, 11.9, 10.2 and 14.3 p.c. back to 1926.
and kept the div. at 8 p.c. and the bonus at
1 p.c., making 9 p.c. for the year, and an
average of 10.9 p.c. over the last decade.
That was after striking off the book value
of fixed assets £30,537 more than had been
spent on the item during the twelvemonth: —
1923. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors . . 123,475 101,571 93,122
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,246 395,975 367,143
Plantation, etc.'. . .. 72,512 66,510 65,649
Railways and tramways 48,271 40,339 39,675
Stocks 144,122 91,345 80,829
Rook debts . . . . 43,520 19,643 14,145
investments . . .. 65,374 181,536 232,555
Cash 108,544 57,985 65,139
Thus the board was able to clip £8449 off
the debt, strengthen investments by £51,019
and increase the cash holding by £7154, leav-
ing the more or less liquid surplus (£299,546,
including stocks) £50,608 stronger than at
the close of accounts in 1930. Investments
include £65,394 of Government securities, but
the other £167,161 is not itemised. Still,
practically the whole of the reserves are
invested outside the business; so, if these
turn in 4 p.c. net, the mills and refinery need
to show 6.1 p.c. on capital to cover an 8 p.c.
div.
Nevertheless, the future is very uncertain.
The embargo on imported sugar has been
renewed for another five years from Sept. 1,
but it was done in the face of bitter opposi-
tion from the southern States, where the
position is not so well understood as it might
be. The new base price for raws is £22 a
ton for the next three years, at the end of
which the question of the local prices comes
up for review again. The immediate out-
look is for another good season, though there
is little prospect of much of a lift in world
prices, so it is unlikely that the £22 a ton
will be realised for the current term.
The market, doubtful of the future of the
industry, prices the pound shares at 225. At
that figure the return is 8.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution, or 7.2 p.c. if the 1 p.c. bonus is
dropped. The backing is 295. lid. in net tan-
gibles, of which 11s. is surplus liquids.
The Conversion Loan
The stage having been set, the Loan Con-
version campaign opened on Monday. Behind
the scenes there has been a prodigious
amount of talk about tactics. At first the
idea was to require a 221 p.c. reduction
of interest, with a super-tax of 25 p.c. for
those who didn’t convert. Then the tale
was pitched that the moral effect here and
abroad would be tremendously greater if we
could say that the greatest conversion scheme
in the world’s history had been quite volun-
tary. So the threat of super-tax was with-
drawn —it was merely announced sweetly
that sacrifices were expected of everybody.
After that the question was debated
whether it would be better to make a fuss
or no fuss at all. In favor of the latter plan
it was pointed out that, if the thing could
be put through without anybody noticing, it
would be a tremendous success, because, if
you don’t dissent, the conversion law says
you’re to be regarded as assenting. But
silence never suits the politician ; so there is
to be a short, sharp campaign in favor of
conversion. And in the end the politician
will preen himself on his success, though
what will really do the trick is the know-
ledge that if the bondholder doesn’t volun-
tarily swallow a pint of the medicine he will
probably have a quart poured down his neck.
The course of the whole business reminds
an old “Wild Cat’’ writer of an interview
he once had with Way Lee, a Chinese mer-
chant then long settled in Australia. It
was in the ’nineties, and this country was
talking a great deal about voluntary con-
ciliation and arbitration. The “Wild Cat’’
man asked Way Lee, who had just returned
from China, how they settled industrial dis-
putes there—-did they do it voluntarily or
otherwise? Oh, quite voluntarily, it seemed.
And how did they proceed about the busi-
ness? Well, they just sent a magistrate, who
heard evidence, and then said so-and-so, and
so-and-so. “Ah, yes,’’ the “Wild Cat’’ man
said in his innocence—“and then I suppose
they leave it to the good sense of the
parties.” “Just so,” said the unsmiling mer-
chant ; “if they consent, welly good. If they
don’t consent” —and Way Lee drew his fore-
finger across his throat, clicked with his
tongue, and said, “Plenty men China.” It
was a lesson in the gentle art of' “leaving
it to the good sense of the parties”; and
Australian politicians have learned it some-
where.
The trouble over contract prices, which
led to the stoppage of the Zinc Corp.’s mine
at the Barrier on July 13, went a little
further than was expected. The cutting out
of allowances for waiting for stopes and dirt
in chutes was resisted by a small party.
Instead of allowing it to pull out and report
to the union as customary, with the subse-
quent blackballing of the particular stope
only, the other miners chipped in when tin 1
argument was in progress, and would not go
down, hoping to get the same win as they did
a few weeks before. To their consternation
the mine was closed. The catastrophe was
then reported to the union, and a mass meet-
ing decided to go back to work if the manage-
ment would recognise the right of the men
to blackball the stope concerned. This the
management refused to do, and since the'co:
has been working at a loss for some time,
there is not much prospect of resumption
except on a half-time basis, notwithstanding
the union’s decision to withdraw the surface
men.
Sic * sjc *
When in the ’nineties British and other
investors looked askance at Australian
public and private securities, mining, especi-
ally for go id, played a big part in filling
the gap. Now that hard times are with
us once more, hopes are that mining may
do the trick again. Prominent amongst
those on the hunt for properties is the
B. H. Prop., whose transition from silver-
lead to steel is one of the romances of
Australian industry. The collapse of metal
prices frustrated the board’s attempt to
revive the old mine at the Barrier; but it
now has two shows under consideration,
Hannan’s Norfh Extended (W.A.) and an
area in New Guinea. A third, on the Silver
Casket field, near Mt. Isa (Q.), has been
turned down following an adverse report by
assistant-Government Geologist Sheppard.
:£ <« sjc
During July, at Marble Bar in the Nor’-
West, the Prophecy mine tributors turned
out 240 tons for 510 oz. gold. Gimlet South
lease at Ora Banda sent 75 tons over the
plates for 1240 z., while Ruggeri’s show
delighted the slack business folk of Mt.
Magnet by treating 30 tons for 2550 z. Bay-
ley’s Reward, which started the great eastern
rush to Coolgardie in the early ’nineties, is
again in the picture. Here prospector
Simonetti struck a lode 22in. wide, in which
coarse gold is showing freely. The new find
may not be another JBayley’s, but it is the
best the old camp has had for years.
King of Creation Co., which paid a fat
deposit to secure an option over Rinaldi’s
show at Meekatharra, has struck 17dwt.
values and heavy water in the main winze.
This means a pumping outfit and consider-
able delay in opening up an important point
in the mine. The directors are not feeling
too happy over the prospects, and the share-
holders are getting into a similar frame of
mind.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) (a) Advantages and disadvantages of
sodium amalgam over mercury in gold amal-
gamation? (b) What minerals present in the
gold hearing ore have a deleterious effect on
the gold extraction in hoth cases? (2) Gan
slimes he satisfactorily treated hy amalga-
mation? (3) (a) Best method of removing
gold amalgam from plates and subsequent
treatment for recovery of gold? (b) Where
a continuous flow of mercury is used is it
advisable to retort the mercury ad well? —
4791.
(1) (a) Sodium amalgam is used as a
revivifier of mercury and not in preference
to it. (h) Copper, lead, tin, antimony,
arsenic, sulphur minerals. (2) Slimes are
usually treated by cyanidation. (3) («)
By use of a piece of stiff rubber or stiff'
whisk broom. The brooms are cut down to
a short length. The amalgam is placed in a
retort and heated slowly until the bulk of
the mercury is driven off. The temperature
is then raised to a red heat. The retorted
metal is melted in a crucible with borax and
carbonate of soda, (h) This would increase
the loss' of mercury, which is easily separated
from amalgam by chamois leather.
What is the difference if any between , the
fiduciary note issues of England and Aus-
tralia ?- —4826.
The Bank of England has two note issues
(1) the gold issue, entirely covered by
coin and bullion; (2) the fiduciary issue,
whose amount is governed by statute. Early
this month the figures were: Gold issue, 132
millions; fiduciary issue, 260 millions ; pro-
portion of gold to total note issue, 34 p.c.
In Australia 25 p.c. was the minimum until
a few weeks ago, when it was fixed at 15 p.c.,
with certain provisions for an automatic
increase.
1 lost £2OO in Consolidated Motors and £5OO
in George A. Bonds —both cos. went broke
and returned nothing. Are these losses allow-
able deductions for income-tax purposes? —
4901.
Under the N. S. Wales Act profits on the
sale of shares are now taxable if the shares
were bought, within three years of the date
of sale. Therefore losses on like transac-
tions (including real property) are allow-
able, but may only be deducted from profits
on similar sales made during the year of the
loss or the two preceding years. If you
haven’t made previous profits on property
dealings you can’t make any deductions.
Under the Commonwealth Act, such profits
or losses are ignored altogether, unless there
is evidence of trading in the shares or other
property. j
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.K.: Highly speculative, like most un-
tried things of the kind.... D>M.L.: Both put off by
the finest crowd of go-getters in Australia. Highly
speculative. Only saleable through the co.’s office —
they may know a buyer.. . .W.D.: Would keep them
going for a couple of years just to see how things
shape... .C.E.8.: A pure gamble; and you can get
better odds nearer home. .. .C.R.M.: (1) You’re an
optimist to expect a 100 p.c. rise within the next
year or two. (2) Understand they are doing
very well. .. .A.D.T.: Hard to prove it with wool,
but there’s no question that of late Australian pro-
ducers have got practically all the benefit of the
exchange... .Widow: Poor stock for a widow; but
nothing likely to be gained by selling now
5.8.P.K.: (1) Because if it failed the crash would
be too terrific. (2) The financing of Government
deficits is inflation, like every advance which cannot
earn its own keep... .W.J.A.: See Bulletin
(31/12/’3O) or “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” Jan., 1931.
.... Coal Inquirer: One of the best collieries in
N. S. Wales, but it is impossible to say when divs.
will be resumed. Accounts due in a week or two;
they will be reviewed when received... .G.J.A.: (1)
and (2) N 0... .H.F.E.: Its profit estimates were based
on whale oil fetching £3O a ton; it is now at £l2
on the open market, and stocks are accumulating.
The outlook for the industry is anything but bright.
Scrip is not listed.


SOME ADVANTAGE IN HAVING A BLACK SHEEP IN THE FAMILY.
THE CHAIRMAN: “Ah, what should we do without our wicked brother? He makes it possible for us to seem saints by comparison.”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Australian Timbers Overseas
Australian timbers are now being tested
at the Forest Products Research Laboratory
at Princes. Risborough, in Buckinghamshire,
and experiments made, to overcome defects
which are found in them. This laboratory is
under the direction of the Empire Mar-
keting Board, which, has erected it into a
sort of clearing-house for information relat-
ing to empire timber resources.
When The Bulletin’s London office last
heard from the board (whose headquarters
are at Queen Anne’s Gate Buildings, London,
S.W.I), the Risborough works were giving
their attention to Tasmanian oak and Queens-
land maple. Tasmanian oak has an unfor-
tunate habit of arriving in England in a state
of “collapse.” Australian scientists have
worked out methods of seasoning which pre-
vent this complaint, and the re-conditioned
timber, is being- tested on arrival in the U.K.
by their Risborough colleagues. Queensland
walnut is a fine timber for furniture and
decorative purposes—but it smells. The
smell is described as a “leathery odor” and
frequently offends the nostrils of the timber
trade. Scientists at Risborough are trying
to find a deodoriser to remove it. One of
the leading cabinet-makers in the U.K.
recently made a “modern” bedroom set to
serve as a model for 400 others for a new
hotel, and all the surfaces were veneered
with Queensland walnut. Pie expressed the
opinion that, if its unfortunate disability
could be removed, it would prove very suit-
able for the “modern” style of decoration in
offices, clubs and hotels.
“Collapse” in Tasmanian oak is caused
by the caving in of the cells during season-
ing. This causes shrinkage, and, in severe
cases, complete distortion of the wood. The
wood may leave Australia in apparently
sound condition, but arrive shrivelled anil
warped. The cure, discovered by Australian
scientists working for the Commonwealth
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, is proving highly effective. This
consists of re-conditioning the wood before
shipment. When kiln drying is completed,
the timber is submitted to about six hours’
steaming in saturated air. This causes the
shrunken cells to revive, and the timber
then keeps its structure intact. Tests at
Princes Risborough have shown that it
machines better and gives a finer finish than
the untreated timber.
This, timber experts believe, should encour-
age the increased use of Tasmanian oak
in Britain for flooring. A leading merchant
described it as “one of the coming timbers for
flooring.” It has been used for this purpose
in the new Lloyd’s Building in the City of
London. Part of the new laboratories, built
at Princes Risborough as a result of the
Empire Marketing Board grant, are floored
with Tasmanian oak.
Profit Sharing and Birth Control
Wunderlichs have perhaps the best-known
profit-sharing system in Australia: year
after year staff-partnership certificates of
the value of £15,000 and over have been
issued, and even for 1930 —a bad year, of
course —the divs. paid on those certificates
totalled £5772. Yet Dr. O. Wunderlich, the
brother who worked out the scheme and has
had most to do with it, recently addressing
the debating club of the Institute of Chart-
ered Accountants, declared that he had come
to this conclusion, which he submitted' as a
thesis: “Profit-sharing is not destined to
play an important role in industry.”
“A firm,” he said, “in the highly com-
petitive boot industry might temporarily
reap an advantage from profit sharing, but
its general adoption throughout the indus-
try would leave things where they were.”
It is because of the temporary character of
the employer’s gain that “of all these profit-
sharing schemes, and their number is legion,
more than 90 p.c. do not survive beyond a
very few years.”
Dr. Wunderlich, one of the very few men
who have turned from medicine to com-
merce, makes this rather astonishing state-
ment of his faith :
The eommonsense of industrial reform lies in the
frank recognition of the law of Malthus, which states
that population always increases more rapidly than
the means of existence. Hence, the necessity of
limiting the supply of the labor element by means
of birth control. There is no other prospect of
relief to our industrial ills.
He thinks the real aim should be to alleviate
the struggle for existence; then,
If the supply of labor were restricted —
which means apparently if the supply of
children were restricted-
labor could make its own terms with capital. It
would then be placed in a position to- demand that
reserves should be set aside to cover labor losses
as well as capital losses.
But more proof will be required that
“population always increases more rapidly
than the means of existence.” There may
be bad distribution of the wealth produced;
but as to the quality of that wealth there
seems pretty strong evidence that it has
trebled where population has only doubled.
The N.S.W. Wool Season
For the N. S. Wales wool season which
closed on June 30, output topped the 400-
million-pound mark for the seventh year
in succession; but the total value on the
basis of Sydney auction sales was £15,486,000
as against £20,123,000 for 1929-30. The
average value per pound was 8.7 d
2d. less than the previous year’s figure, and
less than half that for 1928. Fleeces were
lighter, too, going 7.91 b., though this was a
decimal point better than the recent aver-
age. However, the rains have assured a good
season all over the State, and it is probable
that the 1929 weight. 8.81 b., the highest
N.S.W. has known, will be equalled, if not
beaten.
Copra and Margarine
Dear Bulletin, —As a copra producer, I
think you (B. 8/7/’3l) are too much of
an optimist. The prospective decline of the
whale-oil industry is all right as far as it
goes, but what of the progress in produc-
tion of the West African palm oil? The
best that can be said for the margarine
industry is that it will always be a market
for cocoanut oil, but it will not necessarily
be a profitable one for the cocoanut grower.
Four years ago I believe that the British
margarine manufacturer made a profit of
about .£4,000,000 on a capital investment of
about £2,000,000; I doubt if the planters
made an actual 33 per cent, profit. Follow-
ing on that there was a merger in the mar-
garine industry; the capital was increased
to some £14,000,000 by the absorption of
numerous unprofitable businesses without any
great increase in activities. That makes
their profit of £4,000,000 safe and reason-
able. Since the time of that merger the
copra producer has been working at a loss,
and the indications are that he will have
the greatest difficulty in securing anything
in the way of profit from the great com-
bine that has so effectually cut out competi-
tion in the purchase of cocoanut oil and
products.—Yours, Viatj.
Boys and the Land
“Firestick”: “Curlew” (B. 15/7/’3l) is
wrong in stating that Australian boys are
debarred from privileges extended to over-
seas boys in the matter of rural employment.
Under the economic conditions of the past
decade, Australian lads had no reason to
avail themselves of facilities then existing,
which were almost entirely absorbed by
overseas boys. Under the well-known
Dreadnought migration scheme, boys were
brought from England, given a short train-
ing on Government farms, placed in rural
employment, and in some cases (notably
that of the New England Experiment Farm)
given continuous after-care. These boys
were fully entitled to such privileges—they
came under Government invitation, and,
being in a strange land without home or
friends, were in urgent need of both. Now
that migration has ceased and the dramatic
economic change has compelled local boys to
turn towards the land, the various agricul-
tural training institutions—in N. S. Wales,
at any rate—are filled by local boys, who
are receiving exactly the same considera-
tions as were given to overseas boys.
The men who drew up the freight rates for
the Darwin-Pine Creek railway knew the
necessaries of life. They put beer among the
lowest and vegetables among the highest.
* * * *
Australian woolgrowers are interested in
a process said to have been perfected by
Professor Midgeley, of Bradford, which
promises to lift the value of short wools,
hitherto rejected as waste. If the. invention
does what is claimed, the stuff can be suc-
cessfully converted into combings even when
the length is no greater than an inch. Three
inches has been the accepted minimum
hitherto.
* * * *
Australia entered on a new export trade
at the end of the month, when 120 tons of
meat-meal were shipped to England, the
first consignment to be dispatched from Aus-
tralia. Arrangements have been made for
regular monthly shipments to London, Liver-
pool, Hull and Newcastle, the N.S.W.
Metropolitan Meat Board having initiated
the scheme. The meal is graded in
four classes according to protein content
and is shipped as poultry food, though
it is also used in varying forms as food
for stock generally. It consists of all avail-
able meat scraps and residues useless for
any other purpose save fertiliser. The
material is baked until it is brittle and then
ground.
* * *■ *
A substantial fall is reported in the
Queensland troehus-skell export, trade, which
has proved fairly profitable since the slump in
pearl-shelling set in. There has been no
restriction on the size of the shell gathered,
with the result that the fishers, mostly
Japanese, take everything that comes to their
net. The supply has consequently been
heavily depleted, and the value of the exported
shell has fallen from £72.000 in 1927 to
£28,000 last year. In New Caledonia the
French have limited the size of shell to be
taken, with the result that supplies are
increasing and the export trade becoming
more valuable. A similar limit should be
imposed in Queensland.
“Gahl” : Encouraging results were obtained
at Wangaratta (Yic.) from experiments in
the curing of tobacco-leaf in an electrically-
heated kiln. Fire risk is reduced to a mini-
mum ; there is no chance of taint from flue
gases, the aroma is stronger, drying can be
speeded up, loss of quality due to “sponging
back” is eliminated, while the color is bright
and the grade uniform.
* * * *
The Canadian treaty puts a duty of 2d.
per pound on other people’s peanuts, but lets
Australian in free. The Dominion in 1930
consumed 28,000,0001 b. of the vegetable
(say, 12,000 tons) valued at £240,000. Aus-
tralian growers can’t yet meet all the
Canuck’s requirements, but it has hundreds
of square miles of country with climate to
suit the crop. In the northern districts of
N.S.W., for example.
❖ ❖ * ❖
The casual Australian! A few days ago
the Queensland Cotton Board’s ginnery at
Whinstanes near Brisbane went up in smoke,
the blaze doing damage to the extent of
£6OOO. When the firemen were pulling open
bales of smouldering cotton and scattering
the contents, they found many things besides
cotton, including matches, loose and in boxes.
It is probable that soipe of these started the
fire. In days gone by woolbales were often
found to contain smokers’ requisites, and
pressers are now barred from smoking at
work. It looks as though a similar policy
should be applied to cotton-balers.
* * * %
A new 132 ft. dam on the Onkaparinga
(S.A.), in the ranges above the present
Clarendon catchment, has been commended
by the Works Committee. If built it is
expected to nearly double the Adelaide
supply. The cost would be £337,000; much
of the plant would be brought from recent
River Murray works.
* # * *
Although the early history of Australia is
saturated with rum, which is generally con-
sidered to have been the stuff this country
cut its teeth on, the brewing of beer ranks
amongst the earliest of local industries, and
w r as one which several governors did all they
could to encourage. James Squire was the
first Australian brewer —he had his vats at
Kissing Point, on the Parramatta River, in
1795—and a remarkable testimonial to his
brew may still be seen in St. John’s church-
yard at Parramatta, where an inscription on
a tombstone invites all who would partici-
pate in the peace and rest of the. cemetery to
“drink Squire’s beer.” Governor King made
great efforts to popularise beer-drinking by
taxing and prohibiting the importation of
“hard tack” as much as he could.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Gondoliers”
Criterion “Many .Waters”
Royal Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Mr. W. S. Gilbert arrived in Sydney on
Saturday and at the Criterion witnessed
Mr. Frank Harvey and Miss Iris Darbysliire
in the matinee performance of “Many
Waters,” by Monckton Iloffe. Towards dusk
the body of a man, well dressed and wearing
yellow kid gloves, was found under a palm
in the Domain. ITe- was very dead, indeed.
Asked how he came to be in that unsatisfac-
tory condition, Mr. Gilbert said: “Your
Honor, I died of a broken heart. It was I
who gave the world the household word ‘Gil-
bertian.’ It indicates a particular brand of
humor. I do not ask you to see one of my
comic operas to learn what that word means.
I ask you to go to the Criterion Theatre and
see ‘Many Waters.’ Or perhaps I can tell
you.
“It is a most lugubrious tale, which could
be sub-titled ‘The Life Story of the Barcal-
dines, an Ordinary Couple.’ They meet under
a tree in the wet and stay in the wet; most of
their lives. Their story is inlaid between an
opening and closing scene in a theatrical
manager’s office, in which the ageing Barcal-
dines are conveniently held up by the
manager as examples of the ordinary people
who make up an audience —lie is trying to con-
vince a playwright that it is no use giving
ordinary people Life on the stage, because
they know nothing about it. This contention
is held proved when the couple, offered a
box at their choice of three theatres, choose
‘The Cinderella Princess.’ The author’s
obvious desire is to say that people go to
the theatre not to be awakened but to be
entertained. This belief he illustrates by the
ingenious process of not complying with it;
ami—this is why you found me dead, gentle-
men' —induces people who hold most pro-
foundly to that belief —that is to say, the
Firm of j. C. Williamson —to put his Life
play on as a commercial concern! I assure
you, gentlemen, there is nothing in all my
plays to equal that as an illustration of what
the word ‘Gilbertian’ means.”
In reply to the Coroner, Mr. Gilbert said
the acting was superb, especially that of
Mr.- Harvey. Yes, Miss Darbysliire struck
him as a charming comedy actress with a
delightful voice. He saw no reason for not
believing that she was the happiest thing that
had happened in the local import trade since
Mr. Harvey himself was smuggled in. Yes,
the first act impressed him greatly. He
doubted whether even at the Styx or the
Beelzebub a better combination of talent for
one scene could be found than that of Mr.
Harvey, Miss Darbysliire, Mr. Reginald Dane
and Mr. Harvey Adams. No, Mr. Fernside’s
make-up did not impress him. No, he did
not think Miss Vane did the erring daughter
very well. Yes, he did notice that Mr.
Alexander Marsh was suffering badly
from Shakspeare of the Voice, and that
Barcoo of the Bronchial Tubes was deep-
seated in Mr. Fernside. No, Miss Sadie
Bedford's voice did not crack any tiles in
this play. Yes, Mr. George Cross, Mr.
Leonard Stephens, Miss Marie le Varre and
Miss Dulcie Cherry were quite passable, not
to say ding-dong on the western front.
The Coroner found that Mr. Gilbert had
succumbed to an overdose of Unconscious
Gilbertianism, administered by J. C. William-
son, Ltd., duly indicted for ghost slaughter.
* * *
The second passing of Mr. Gilbert, re-
ported above, did not prevent the staging of
“The-Gondoliers.” Put on at Her Majesty’s,
it attracted all the Barcaldines of Sydney.
They revelled in it. Perhaps Mr. Gilbert
would have been found even deader if he had
dropped in and got the hang of why. As this
onlooker got it, it went like this. Gilbert
wrote a number of plays, chiefly in verse
of a natural singing quality, an extraordinary
felicity of rhyme, a lilt that has a way of get-
ting into the head of anyone with a sense of
rhythm and staying there for ever. One of
the choice artists of his day, or any other,
lie shaped this medium to convey a criticism
of a number of abiding things of life. He
preached, but he did it as preaching should
be done, standing on his head. One thing
he laughed at was bathos, sobstuff, the
general emotional overstatement that is called
melodrama. He did this by the means known
(unfavorably) as satire. In cold print “The
Gondoliers” is satire on melodrama pure and
simple.
Now, it happens that melodrama is a vastly
popular commodity, and it also happens that
satire is a vastly mistrusted instrument. In
the face of this, “The Gondoliers” could not
possibly have succeeded once, let alone still
be drawing oof to a box-office. Enter Mr.
Sullivan. He sets the absurd words to nicely
sentimental music. But still the original
nature of the thing remains. It is still
satire, on melodrama. Providentially, there
is a third finger to go into the pie. Actors
are demonstrably, almost without exception,
from deficient in to wholly lacking in a sense
of humor. Otherwise, they couldn’t be actors.
Nobody with a full sense of humor could do
what actors do. He would burst out laugh-
ing at himself. And so, at last, we have the
complete metamorphosis. Read “The Gon-
doliers,” and it is a gorgeous nonsense skit
on melodrama ; hear it, and it is a gorgeous
melodrama.
Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the continued
popularity of Gilbert and Sullivan on the
stage. Apart from the conventional com-
edian, scarcely a player treats it as anything
bijt melodrama. So the audience accepts it.
The audience does not accept Gilbert, be-
cause, except on rare occasions, it does not
hear Gilbert. Sullivan’s music hides or dis-
guises most of the real quality of the verse.
It etherealises the nonsense, so that there is
nonsense no longer. The singing voices con-
tinue the music’s work. No one without the
(ext in his head can follow the words of any
of the choruses for three consecutive lines.
It could be sung in Italian and understood
just as well. The fact is, Mr. Gilbert, that
your words don’t matter a damn. The
general purport of them is sufficient. “Here’s
a set of new-laid eggs, take and hatch them
if you can, clever man,” would serve just as
well as the other. Perhaps, in this one
instance, not quite so well. Leo Darnton,
who sings that popular number —he sang it
to four encores—is of the ones whose
words are clear as their singing is delightful.
But this verse happens to be one of Mr.
Gilbert’s softest satires, and so does not jar
in the general success of turning the satire
of melodrama into melodrama itself, which is
finally completed by the serious demeanor of
the players. And what gorgeous musical
melodrama it is. Color, light, costume, a
throne in the balance, luxurious settings,
three loves affected, a torture chamber in
the background, an all-round happy ending.
A dangerous animal to play with, melo-
drama ; he has a way of swallowing people,
Mr. Gilbert. Of those who most help the
cunning animal in this production the chief
are all the ladies of the cast, the chorus
(male and otherwise) and Alban White-
head. Ivan Menzies and John Ralston fight
a losing battle against, and Leo Darnton and
Gregory Stroud neither help nor hinder, the
cheerful monster. So the curtain is able to
fall in the end on a quite delightable, quite
excitable, quite all-rightable scene, with the
firm and perennial foot of melodrama planted
on the prostrate body of Mr. Gilbert, Prince
of Lyrical Satire and Don Alhambra of Non-
sense.
* * *
Apart from the foregoing outbreaks, the
most interesting event in Sydney theatrics
last week was the decision of Repertorian
Doris Fitton to try sailing under the Firm’s
banner. On Saturday she moved “The Con-
stant Nymph” from the Savoy, which had
overflowed for a number of previous' Satur-
day nights, to the ancient Palace. The only
advantages present writer can see in the
move are the. bigger stage, useful for a first
act that was cluttered at the other address,
and more seats. The place was well filled
on the opening night.
“THE GONDOLIERS” AND A FEW OTHERS.
Duke (Ivan Menzies), Marco (Leo Darnton), Giuseppe (Gregory Stroud), Don
Alhambra (John Ralston), Tessa (Mary Hotham), Gianetta (Marie Bremner),
the Duchess (Evelyn Gardiner).
A second inspection failed to shake The
Bulletin’s opinion that something like
vaudeville at its one-time best is being pur-
veyed at Sydney Royal. The show is run
on sound vaudeville lines —a progressive
improvement in acts, culminating in the
star item of the bill, with a lesser final act
for those who like-grabbing hats and going
before a show is;quite over. The funniest
thing on the bill is a cove whom the spot-
light discovers standing near the Two Rascals
when those capital entertainers come out
ostensibly to acknowledge applause. This
chap, who looks as if he might have walked
out, or been kicked out, of a near-by bar,
proceeds to give a trial singing of j“ Sweet
Adeline,” and provides an uproar of
absurdity. Another excellent item is Lily
Moore, an imposing woman dressed as if she
had come on to sing grand opera, who
instead sings about a lady who fell down
on her cadenza and goes on from that to
club-room stories, told in a manner that
excuses even the oldest of them.
* * * J
“Faust” and “La Tosca” were added to
the procession of the Australian grand opera
season at Melbourne Royal last week.
Houses were splendid. Orff-Solscher was an
unconventional La Tosca, and it was a trifle
disconcerting to fit her into the role after
one had seen Scavizzi and sundry others;
but in the dinner-cwm-murder scene she was
magnificent. She looked as if she could
have driven the carving-knife: into Scarpia
Izal if he had-been clad in Ned Kelly’s
armor. The lady’s middle register is dull,
but her upper fulfils all requirements. Izal’s
Scarpia was conventional but impressive, and
Hislop’s Cavaradossi was a triumph of in-
telligent acting and lovely singing. There was
not much room for Australia, but Charles
Evans, as an unusually thin sacristan, pur-
veyed - the 'humor -of; that: part -.very - cleverly.
As Spoletta, the police agent, Leo Crotty was
as sinister as the average Melbourne detec-
tive under defending lawyer’s cross-exami-
nation.
There are so many assassinations, suicides
and executions in grand opera that it would
be more appropriate if the programme men-
tioned the characters in the order of their
disappearance. In “La Tosca” the drama
almost overwhelms the music, but director
Heinze kept a nice balance. In fact, the
performance was amazingly free from rough
edges.
There was more confusion of tongues in
“Faust,” Charles Nicis in the name-part
singing first in Italian (or French, or
possibly Swahili), and later certainly in
English. The opera gave the Austra-
lian members of the co. their first grand
opportunity. Their worst fault was a ten-
dency to stand around like apple dumplings
when the music was winging its xvay to-
wards the empyrean. Nevertheless, there is
very little characterisation in Gounod’s
opera. Mephistopheles is only a stage vil-
lain and Marguerite is a graduate of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College of Music.
Maisie Ramsay expressed her maidenly per-
turbations with gentle art and in a beautiful
soprano. Her appearance and even some of
her notes were remarkably like Melba’s.
Before prognosticating permanent success
for Australian grand opera a critic is
confronted with the question whether
Australians are temperamentally fitted to
express the passions of such a play as “La
Tosca.” The sceptical Australian sense of
humor is apt to intervene, and a sense of
humor is devastating to the spirit of Ver-
dean or Puccinian opera. Australians don’t
usually make a success of English drawing-
room comedy. f. They play butlers badly and
kept men indifferently, probably because
these characters don’t come within their
every-day experience. Will they be able to
rise to the heights of fhelodramatie emotion
of a Tosca screaming with melodious anguish
while her lover is off stage being tortured?
Will they fall with appropriate sincerity
on the multitudes of corpses destined to
make a shambles of the Australian boards,
.should grand opera become a regular insti-
tution? The inordinate extravagance in
Italian music has to be matched with an
unbridled exaggeration in the actors. For.
the present, at any rate, it will probably be
necessary to retain the of such
experienced mummers as Hislop in order to
maintain the enthusiasm of theatregoers in
the project.
•¥ * *
The resources of Adelaide Repertory are
becoming notable. With good players away
in “Dutini,” at the Royal, it could still find
a cast of 35 for the varied scenes of “Many
Waters,” Monckton Hoffe’s panorama of
married life, showing that romance and
tragedy interweave in lives seemingly com-
monplace and drab. George Whittle and
Mimi Mattin worked finely all through, as
young and old, lovers and parents, frivollers
and victims. Others it. would be unfair, to
particularise, for there was not a weak spot,
much care often being lavished on characters
—and costumes—that held the stage for but
a few minutes. Esmond George produced;
McLaughlin and Campbell lighted and deco-
rated the 11 scenes with a maximum of
effect (and hard work) at a minimum of
outlay. Three big houses.
* ¥ *
There will be Steele Rudd testimonial play
nights at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, on August
21 and 22, with backing by ,the Fellowship
of Australian Writers. The bill will be
Vance Palmer's “The Black Horse,” Louis
Esson’s “The Drovers,” Nora McAuliffe’s
“The Rose” and Carrie Tennant’s “Reprieve.”
The charges certainly won’t keep anyone
■aways; they/are*two:bob and.one.,•„ ,
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Dirigible,” at Sydney State, is quite as
spectacular as “Hell’s Angels.” There is a
cast of stars, and the photography is superb.
How so much money, technical ingenuity and
acting talent came to be lavished on such a
witless story is one of the mysteries of
Moviedom. Fay Wray fears for the safety of
her husband, Ralph Graves, who is an officer
and an air hog. L When he decides to take
his ’plane to the South Pole with Jack Holt’s
airship she decides, being sick of his stunts,
to get a Paris divorce and marry Holt. So
Holt refuses to let him come. The air-
ship founders; Graves (having gone with
his ’plane to the Antarctic by steamer),
crashes while attempting an unauthor-
ised landing at the Pole, is rescued
by Holt in another airship, and makes
it up with his wife. All the traditional
devices for winning a facile tear or cheer are
there —the unit that volunteers to a man
for the dangerous enterprise; the cripple who
goes out to die in the snow so that his com-
rades may have a better chance; the New
York wife who gets progress reports from
the Polar camp by wireless—and the scenic
effects and catastrophes are necessarily
familiar. It is not good publicity for the
flying arm of the U.S.A. Navy, though
obviously meant to be. Graves does flash
stunts over a crowd—low-flying at a radio
announcer, diving under and over a moving
Zepp., etc. —for which he would be cashiered
in a disciplined service (in this one admirals
appla'tid him), and Holt having lost his
airship is given another. At the finish
homicidal blunderers get a public
reception. It is impossible to take sucll pic-
tures seriously. The Americans failed to send
a Yi>lane to France, or produce a notable
flier throughout the war. The Germans are
the only people who have done anything with
dirigibles, and no American had been heard of
in civil aviation since the Wrights till Lind-
bergh did his stunt-flight across the Atlantic.
The names of modern British, French and
Australian airmen are household words in
countries that have never heard of an Ameri-
can, barring the well-advertised Lindbergh.
Still, this kind of propaganda must impress
some sections. In “The Beneath,”
Hollywood had the nerve to show “U.S.A.
Q-boats” sinking German subs. !
* * *
In M.-G.-M.’s “The Sin Ship,” at Sydney
Capitol, the late Louis Wolheim discloses
a Chaplinesque yearning to tell the world
that a heart of gold beats behind his gro-
tesque exterior. On first seeing Mary Astor
with lan Keith, garbed as a parson, his lust
is aroused. He has never known a good
woman, being but a rough sea captain. Beel-
zebub seems to be playing into his hands
when they ask for a passage. As soon as
the high seas are reached he sends for the
lady and locks the door. Is she afraid?
By no means. Drawing herself to her full
height, and causing her eyes to blaze scorn
so far as the medium in which she is work-
ing will allow, she pours a flood of ecclesias-
tical platitude all over him. He bows his
head in shame, an instant convert to purity,
and she unlocks the door, rejoins her hus-
band, and retails her adventure with shouts
of ribald mirth. They are crooks fleeing
from justice. The element of surprise is
complete. After that Wolheim turns a pro-
mising drama into a romantic comedy, with
himself as pathetic lover. There is a
scene, lifted from “The Gold Rush,” in which
he invites his idol and her husband to a
meal and waits and waits for them in vain;
and he has many tedious emotional passages.
lan Keith overplays as the wife-beating
criminal, and Mary Astor is lovely, compe-
tent and uninspired, as usual.
“The Sky Raiders,” * the other Capitol
feature, is an old-time bellowdrama presented
in terms of aeroplanes. Lloyd Hughes is the
gallant lad who used to leap into a dog-
cart or on to a horse, and catph and horse-
whip the absconding villain, as a prelude
to giving him in charge. Marceline Day is
the heroine who doesn’t suspect her sinis-
ter admirer. The last-named and his con-
federates arrange to rob Uncle Sam’s air
mail. The hero finds out, is gagged and tied
up, escapes, learns that the villain has mis-
appropriated Miss Day, follows in a ’plane,
and after many trials and tribulations, which
include being bombarded by machine-guns
and forced down in a parachute with the
girl,- he wins through to safety and love.
Miss Day is winsome to a degree; it’s a pity
about her voice. The acting,is good in its
melodramatic way, and the : sound is much
better than in the other picture.
* * *
Fox-Movietone’s “Never the Twain Shall
Meet,” at Sydney Regent, is an old film
friend —one of the “gone-native-for-tlie-sake-
of-an-island-girl” school. C. Aubrey Smith,
business magnate, instals Conchita Montene-
gro, who as an ogler and writer equals
Lupe Velez, herself, in his U.S.A. palace.
In spite of what the authors say about
White America’s color-sense, uncontrollable
island girls are constantly being imported
by staid American families, according to the
talkies. Conchita doesn’t take kindly to
Paris models, and at inconvenient moments
evinces a tendency to strip and do the hula-
liula. She,also evinces a tendency to seduce
the son of the house. Leslie Howard. The
state of her emotions being patent to all, the
father returns her to her island of origin.
The play, such as it is, begins when the boy
follows her and is gripped by the malign
spell which islands exercise on film heroes.
His neat clothes are cast aside; he becomes
a ragged and forlorn drunk, like the local
beachcomber, Clyde Cook. And then? Well,
you’ll never guess it unless you’re a con-
firmed talkie-hound. It appears that the
outcast and Karel Karen, a nice girl of his
own class and color, have been in love all
along—one of those suppressed or inhibited
.infatuations which are often found in island
films in need of happy endings —and when
she arrives Leslie stops drinking, has a shave
and gets engaged to her. Also at the
Regent are Laurel and Hardy in “Pardon
Us.” Like Charlie Chaplin, they always do
the same things in the same manner, and their
appeal, like his, is universal. The capacity
to delight audiences of all nationalities is
rare. George Robey has only to walk on to
a stage to make Londoners laugh, yet he got
the bird in New York. Anyone who can
explain why “Pardon Us” gets laughs every-
where will have done something to explain
the world-wide allure of such stars as Greta
Garbo., . . . ...


Full of pep
packed with
/
and it sells at
.• . /
regular price
. . . the new
•LIN I ON"
WHITE
FLASH
THE SENSATIONALLY BETTER MOTOR FUEL
THAT GIVES YOU MOST FOR YOUR MONEY
Modern automobile engines are
vastly different from those of
just a few years ago. Many of
them have what is known as
“high compression.” This means
more power, but you need an
equally high-grade spirit to get
maximum benefit. With an in-
ferior fuel, you hear a “ping” or
knock, which is an indication
that the gas is not igniting pro-
perly.
There are a number of ways of
overcoming “knocking” in a
motor spirit. One is by pains-
taking refining methods. An-
other by relentless tests of all
spirit produced, and the rejection
of that below quality.
Both of these, and certain others
are employed in the production
of UNION WHITE FLASH.
The result is a spirit that has
truly amazing “anti - knock”
qualities. Naturally the cost of
making it is greater than that of
an inferior spirit. But the public
acceptance of UNION WHITE
FLASH has been so overwhelm-
ing, and the volume of sales so
great, that we are able to offer
this better motor fuel at regular
price.
Why not test UNION WHITE
FLASH for yourself—in your
own car? We sincerely believe
you will convince yourself that
UNION WHITE FLASH is the
most powerful motor fuel you
have ever known.
USE ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
The ONLY Pure Paraffin Base Motor Oil that costs no more than Ordinary Oil.


’Neath Austral skies, the sunburnt sons
Of sturdy settlers till the soil,
Their heritage the fruitful land,
Won from the wilds with honest toil.
May health and strength their portion be,
In our fair lands their lives secure;
Coughs kept at bay, colds conquered, too,
By Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.—Advt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard e i Quality throughout the Empire.
O f#
Monobet
amsonite
elatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Ku 99
Detonators
Cartridges
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TO MEET THE TIMES
M
riental
Melbourne* Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
Aspen” : There has been a furious con-
troversy among N. S. Wales snakeologists
over the venomous powers of the white-ringed
snake known as the bandy-bandy. Some have
ANOTHER LITTLE MISUNDERSTANDING.
“Parson do be tryin’ to strike good treble.”
"What! And him so set and all against horse-racin’!”
maintained that a single drop of its poison
will deprive the strongest cat of all its lives,
while, others have averred that they were will-
ing. in the interests of science, to associate
continuously with bandy-bandys and allow
the sweet creatures to bite them whenever
they felt so disposed. N. C. Hewitt, of Tweed
Heads, who is an F.Z.S., flung into the argu-
ment a yarn that when Bernhardt played
“Antony and Cleopatra” in Sydney she cast a
bandy-bandy in the role of the asp. The
creature gave a magnificent characterisation
of the part, biting the divine lady with
great verve. What happened to the snake
not recorded, but Sara survived. Be Souef.
of Taronga Zoo, sides with Hewitt and co..
and says that the bandy-bandy is gentle and
harmless and that its fangs couldn’t penetrate
human skin except in some very delicate part.
Sara, of course, was pretty tough.
“Harold Ilardupp”: The mouse in Aus-
tralia has changed its habits. Cheese and
pieces of fat arc no longer the best baits
to decoy it into a trap. The cheese tradition
holds good only in cold countries where
rodents seek fatty foods for the warmth the
oils impart; in Australia, flour is mousie’s
weakness. A piece of bread dipped in flour
is irresistible; and, digging frenziedly into
the bait to get the last grain of the luxury, a
mouse will set off the stillest trap.
* * * *
“Tomb”: Is there a more vividly-colored
landscape in this world than that which
meets the eye at Childers, the jmgar-growing
oasis in southern Queensland? Viewed
under . the sparkling blue sky of a mild
winter’s morning it is startling in its bril-
liance. The soil ranges in hue' from bright
vermilion to deep geranium. Every acre is
under cultivation, and the newly-ploughed
rectangles of reds are set off by adjoining
squares of greens of every shade —the grow-
ing cane. This tesselated mantle is draped
over the hills as far as the eye can reach.
“Dr. Mivart"; A small creek winds its
way through my suburban estate, and this
topographical fact was discovered recently
by Frederick. Frederick, who is pure white,
with a red beak, is chock-full of histrionic
instincts. He can fly in a blundering sort of
fashion., though his wings have been clipped
—hence his daily arrival over several inter-
vening fences. On his first day, after
exhausting all the possibilities of the creek,
lie sat on the bank and meditatively watched
the other birds —there are a cote-full of white
doves, a magpie and a cockatoo, who arc
more or less domesticated, and a fine assort-
ment of . kookaburras, dollar-birds and
smaller wild fry. Freddie liked the doves
best. After a period of study he essayed
to imitate their gait and demeanor. Feeling
himself proficient, he catapulted himself up
to the platform of the cote, where he struck
as nearly a dove-like attitude as a duck can.
The doves, after a moment of stunned incre-
dulity, gave the intruder one withering look
and flew away, to be seen no more that day.
leaving Frederick like Napoleon on the rock.
Tiring of this, he fluttered down and studied
the magpie. Magpie showed off his pet
achievement, a swift flight at an awfully
steep angle. This Frederick attempted, with
the result that he turned a disgraceful somer-
sault. Later I saw him sitting on a post
intently eyeing the cockatoo, but as the
CHILD ENDOWMENT.
MACISTRATE: “Have you been in trouble lately”
LADY : “Not since Willie was born—twenty years ago.”
cockatoo does nothing whatever E'reddie
found him too static. He transferred his
roving eye to a group of kookaburras, who
werq chortling on a dead gum. and listened
intently. About one o’clock next morning,
as I was getting to bed, a most fearsome
cry broke the stillness outside my window.
Commencing like a series of convulsive sobs
ic swelled into a wild hullabaloo of quacks
and gobbles. I looked out. There in the
moonlight, perched on a fence, stood Fred-
erick, practising the cry of the laughing
jacks. A window was thrown up across the
way, and the sharp crack of a tifle broke
in upon the recital, Freddie, unhurt, but
scared out of his wits, fell off the post, and
waddled away.
“Booyong” : I cannot call to mind where
cedar was used extensively by the old hands
for fencing, as suggested by “T.H.F.” (B.
29/7/’3l), but in the construction of the
homesteads and the outbuildings on the Rich-
mond and Clarence rivers, red cedar was
used almost exclusively, for the reason that it
was much easier pit-sawn than hardwood
and was not relished by the white ant.
Roseberry station homestead and much of
the extensive outbuildings were constructed
entirely of red cedar; -in the large barn and
sheds at Runnymede there must be thousands
of feet of it. The old Tabulam homestead was
built of cedar, and the same timber was
used extensively at Boualbo and Nyangarie. In
the ’sixties thousands of logs, many of them
7ft. and Sft. in diameter, were cut into short
lengths of about 9ft. or 10ft. in the scrubs at
the head of the Richmond River with the
object of “flooding” them down # to Casino.
Some cases of drowning occurre*d, and the
scheme was abandoned, with the result tnat
millions of feet of beautiful timber was left
in the scrubs to rot. Whilst' shooting pigeons
and turkeys in the scrubs 40 years ago I
often came across these fine logs.
“Miro”: At Russell, Maoriland’s one-time
capital, there always lias been great com-
petition for tlie honor of landing the biggest
swordfish, mako or kingfish of the season.
Most people leave the makos and the sword-
fish to wealthy tourists, but everyone
has ago for the kingfish stakes. When I
was last there the only person who didn’t
seem to be competing was a severe-looking
lady with horn-rims. But she fished. Dis-
daining launches, she cast her line from a
beach and read a book while waiting for a
bite. She was reported to be a retired school-
teacher, a fearfully decorous person, so
when one day we beheld her lying on her
back on the beach, and waving her flat-heeled
feet in mid-air, we put it down to sudden
insanity. This view was emphasised when
she struggled to her feet, minus hat and
glasses, and, staggering into the ocean, dis-
appeared with wild splashing. As a rescue
party scampered towards her she arose from
the .foam, and we then saw she had twisted
round her wrist her stout fishing-line. Just
then a magnificent kingfish leapt out of the
water, and we all joined in the effort to land
him. It was a proud, happy, albeit breath-
less and bedraggled angleress who stood by
and saw her catch weighed in at 951 b
record for the season.
* * * *
“Pick” : Refilled by the heavy winter rain,
Lake George (N.S.W.) has lapped its
high-water rim for the first time in half a
century. Bungendore, on the southern shore,
rejoices, for it will not only receive visits
again from week-enders but it has recovered
its trade with the travelling public. A few
years ago, to lure traffic through Canberra,
the Federal Government made a deviation
in the main southern route. A concrete high-
way was built about the northern edge of
the lake, at a cost of £26,000 a mile, and the
perfectly good road through Bungendore and
Queanbeyan, further on, became empty as
the desert. The lake now covers three miles
of the new road, and travellers must take
the old road.
* * : i : ■ *
“M.L.C.” : French naturalists are reported
to have watched with great interest the tedi-
ous journey of a crab which started forth on
its travels in the Red Sea 29 years ago
and has arrived at Port Said by way of the
Suez Canal. Distance, 101} miles —31 miles
per year. Punters who back a crab against
a snail would be on a loser, since
the latter’s steady and determined gait car-
ries him a mile in a fortnight. Evidently
the inconsequent prancings of the tempera-
mental crab sideways and backward are a
severe handicap. ■
*, * $
“H.A.L.”: Adelaide’s morning paper has
revived the furpliy of frogs being found alive
after having been hermetically sealed up in
rocks for thousands of years. Museum
curators long ago gave up asking for the
next one thus discovered to be forwarded
to them. The basis of all these frog-in-
rock tales is that a tadpole finds its way
into a hollow through a tiny crack when
very small; fails to find the exit again, lives
upon the tiny creatures which always seek
shelter in cracks, grows to become a frog—
and there you are. A parallel case was
brought up in an oyster-dredge at Coffins
Bay (S.A.) in the form of a gin-bottle con-
taining a fair-sized mullet. The fish was far
too big to get out of the neck, so it must
be presumed that it entered when small and
that enough food came into it to keep it alive.
In this case the finders tipped out the sea-
water, replaced it with methylated spirit,
and sold the curio for £l.
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can t remember the name of the town or
the region in which it lay.
I only know that we came to it at the close
of an autumn day.
Lhis, too, I recall across the years—and
always shall, I think—
That, the beer in the one estaminet was fit
for a man to drink.
A tired sun in a cloud-flecked sky was fling-
ing his last long rays ;
The trees that sheltered the little town with
color were all ablaze ;
And the tinted leaves from the baring boughs
were adrift on the evening wind
As we came to the town by a road that
wound past fields that were smooth
and kind.
No sound of guns broke the stillness there;
the war was a world away
As the clouds: were veiling the dying sun
at the close of that autumn day.
I rom our weary column there came no
sound, not even the hardest case
Had the usual comment to make when we
marched to our camping-place.
Swiftly the light, and the color passed, but
the peace with us remained,
And we left the town in the cold grey dawn
with something long lost regained
A dream forgotten, a vision fled, had come
again to us all
In that tiny hamlet, somewhere in France,
whose name I cannot recall.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
Cbiioiwcaltb Savings JIM of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
e
OLD BOOTS
COMFORTABLE DAYS
AND
COMFORTABLE WALKS
A SOMETHING DIFFERENT PRESENT
When you take your cigarette or a pipe fill from the old WOODEN
BOOT (which is an attractive and unusual ornament), lift up the
toe-cap for a light, then associations suggest an enjoyable smoke.
This wooden boot is the most original and unique ornament made in
Australia. Carved from solid wood. Hand-made by Artisans, 14/6
post free to any part of Australia.
Send your order to
SWISS TRADING CO.,
388-90 GILBERT ROAD, PRESTON, VICTORIA.
“Viau”: If the weapons of the Papuan
Ivuku-kuku people are anything like those
of their kinsmen the Raua of the Finisterre
Ranges, “8.8.8." (B. S/7/’3l) would have
needed more than blankets under her canvas
hammock for protection. Made of very hard
and fine-grained palm-wood they are cut in
triangular, square or round sections, and in
entering any material they make a clean hole
according to their sectional shape. The
shaft portion of a point blade fin. wide and
24in. long is very slender —about 3-16 in., the
balance being cut away to leave a serration
of terrible barbs and prongs. One shudders
at sight of them , to think of the result if
pulled out backwards. I have sent arrows
of such a pattern through a double copra
sack hanging loosely on a pole, and through
galvanised-iron beyond.
:1s =l= * *
“Ora”: Canoona (Q.), whence comes news
of a strike of alluvial gold which yielded
750 z. to a party of four in oite day, is the
site of the first gold discovered in Queens-
land. Early in 1858 a prospector named
Chappell, working on Bonnydown Creek, 36
miles north of Rockhampton, found gold in
a gully, and there was an immediate rush
from the southern States. Sixteen thousand
men were on the field three months later. In
six months 50,0000 z. was taken out of the
shallow ground, and then the field petered
out. The gold was supposed to have come
from a dyke of serpentine, but all efforts to
find its source were fruitless. A feature of
gold finds in this vicinity of recent years is
that the metal is so heavily coated with
magnetic oxide of iron as to be almost black,
and is recognisable only by its weight.
* sje :K
“M.D.” : Mention of Johnnie Burgess (B.
17/6/’3l) recalls the occasion in 1890 when
he drove the mail coach across the Taly-
walka Creek when it was a roaring torrent
four miles wide. Clad only in his pants he
stood up on the seat of the buggy, whip in
hand, and urged his horses on. At times
he was able to see only the ears of his
struggling noddies, but he got through all
right. Burgess settled down as a butcher In
Wilcannia. Amongst other enterprises he
bred his own horses, and he knew them
again in after years. He made a slit in
one of the ears of the animal when it was a
foal, and slipped a threepenny-piece, shaped
in a distinctive manner, into the incision.
:]: if * *
“E.S.S.”: Nothing in the bush is more
jealous and watchful of its domicile than
the red jumper, or more furious and pug-
nacious when its privacy is invaded. A few
sentinels are always about the premises, and
at the least interference with the precious
citadel the defenders below hop over in
raging battalions. And when General Jumper
advances with his cohorts it is just as well
to give him plenty of room for manoeuvres.
WITH APOLOGIES.
"Maister Puirdval, will ye be so guid as to change me a wee bit oatmeal jor these dug
buscuits? The dug’s deid, and ma teeth are not what they used to be.”
Man, dog or elephant is all the same to him
—he’ll stampede the lot. Though the nest
may be under a tree there is never a leaf
or twig upon it, unless one lias just fallen,
THE INVITATION .
"Come up here, big boy, and make love to me.”
and then the vigilance committee and the
clearing gang will be busy removing it.
When a fat caterpillar drops on the roof
it has a terrific time for a moment or two,
and dies violently where it fell. Some of
the nests are of immense size. I measured
one on Hoganthulla Creek, a tributary of
the Warrego River, that was 27ft. long and
12ft. wide. It was near the road, and was
a notable landmark along that creek. Tra-
vellers used to prod it with sticks to see
the furious inmates swarm out to avenge
the outrage.
$ 5jS * tjt
“Silvanus”: 1 don’t doubt that a pig’s
hide can withstand a snake’s fangs. I
watched a pig-buyer branding his purchases.
The brand is a sort of hammer, carrying
letters and numerals composed of half-inch
spikes. The spikes are pressed into an inked
pad, and as the pigs come down the runway
from the farmer’s cart the buyer strikes
them a forceful blow on the shoulder with
his brand, thus tattooing the characters in
the skin. The impression is indelible, though
not visible until the pig is killed and cleaned.
The pigs don’t appear to feel this apparently
cruel treatment. At any rate they don’t
squeal, and they squeal readily enough if
anything hurts them.
❖ # >!:
“Bamu”: That Malayan wizard of “Feng-
Shui’s” who went to such a lot of
trouble to have bis wife eaten by a croco-
dile (B. 10/6/’3l) should have served his
apprenticeship to the average Papuan sor-
cerer. The practice there is to induce the
lady or any other enemy to go out fishing in
a canoe, either on the sea or on the nearest
stream. The pourri-pourri man then pro-
ceeds to the edge of the water carrying a
small image of a croc, previously fashioned
out of wood. Breathing a spell over this
he gives it its sailing orders and pushes it
into the water. In due course the lady or
whoever it may be is dealt with as desired,
and with very little fuss and feathers.
“Alele”: The sacred tree (B. 5/8/’3l) is
not only “by no means extinct” but flourishes
all over the world. England, Wales and Ire-
land, boast many “holy trees,” mostly thorn
trees, and always in connection with a well.
These are hung with votive offerings, usually
rags, while small coins are thrown into the
water. Egypt has the Virgin’s tree in the
Materieh Gardens, near Cairo, while the
African juju tree is too well known to descant
on. Hindu India is covered with votive
trees, but the Moslem of that country does
not affect the practice of tree worship, that
being against the Quran, though if “Si
Anu” is correct the Malay Moslem makes
no bones about it. In the Gulf of Papua
the dwellers in the sago-mud swamps of the
Purari endow every tree and thing, animate
or inanimate, with a soul. This soul,
the immunu, applies not only to the
particular object but to its fragments
to the final dispersal, each tiny frac-
tion of the original retaining its own
immunu to the end. The belief is none the
less fascinating because it is held by a
degraded swamp-dwelling lot of savages who
practise wholesale polygamy, and who were
a few years ago the most inveterate raiding
cannibals in western Papua.
* * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: Lonely graves (B.
22/7/’3l) ? That, of Frank Stubley is situated
on the Norman River in far North Queens-
land where the road from Normanton to
Croydon crosses. Stubley was a Towers
mining magnate who cleaned up a huge sum
—generally estimated at £lOO,OO0 —in the
roaring days of that great field. He left
for the south and elsewhere to spend it, and
after due interval turned up at Normanton
on the steamer which used to carry passen-
gers for Croydon goldfield round Cape
York, without a penny. Some of his old
pals financed him, and he started for Croy-
don to try his luck on the new field. He
was a broken man, however, and got no
farther than the river crossing which was
for long called after him, and may still be,
for all I know.
* * 4> *
“E.S.S.”: I have come across many
examples of bush animals digging for water
in the dry beds of sandy creeks; they
include the brumby and the kangaroo. These
two go after the buried drink where the sink-
ing is shallow. The brumby sniffs along
the bed, and when he smells water he starts
to paw at the sand. By the time he is able
to wet his lips he has a hole big enough to
bury himself in. The kangaroo is a good
digger, but he has a lot of trouble from fall-
ing sand. While he roots with his forepaws
his long hind legs break the sides, and his
tail drags in the sand behind. The dingo, if
he has to go far to reach a soakage, makes
a large burrow, which sometimes falls in
behind and buries him, but that doesn’t
worry him; he scratches out and starts over
again. The wombat is a natural burroweri
and bunny is the most expert of all in con-
necting with subterranean supplies. He bur-
rows quickly, and in some places goes a
considerable distance underground. The
passage is cleared out as he goes, and, water
having been reached, it is thereafter used
regularly by scores of rabbits. A settler near
Garra (N.S.W.) noticed rabbits every evening
going to a dry gully, and on investigating he
found them diving into a burrow. He dug it
up, and five or six feet down came upon an
excellent supply of water, which at the tim<?
he needed.
DOWN FOE THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, _ , j .-I •
Dad Cowbails and Mum and their progeny
Have 'come down the line tot their
Da/Sails and Mum, Dave, Daniel and
They’/'dodgin’ the miltin’, they’re down for
°Hiiwn for the Show’
fwn d fm- the Show ’
You call tell by their clobber
T yS down for the Show. ,
•
Dad’s wearin’ a hat with corks round the
brim, .
Mum’s dress it is pre-war—it looks like a kim.
And Flo’s usin’ lipstick, Dave’s shaved off
his mo.;
But. they can’t hide the fact that they’re
down for the Show.
For a spell from hard yakker,
They’re down for the Show !
Mum’s hopin’ the Pommy won’t do things by
n.Sgo.* «to cream-cans and poddy
-id >
heajts on the farm where ti a
ajay S > .
And it keeps her mnd busy thougl lo
W,™ tZ'fm. thp hMt whm
‘| . 1-® . ti.® sTow
Shes down foi the Show.
Miss Flo and the boys have each got a pound
To spend on ■■ the sideshows and merry-go-
found;
But Mum holds the bank; the wealth she
will stow
Where none will suspect while she’s down
for the Show.
Mum guards the exchequer
When down for the Show!
, . .
W ell. Dad and his kind are the Salt of the
Earth,
Though simple their manners you can t gauge
their worth.
To such dead-game Australians I doff my
chapeau, . „
Inspired by the fact that they’re down for
the Show.
Down for the Show
Yes, down for the Show !
The Pride of Australia
Are down for the Show.
QUEENSLAND.
J. A. PHILP.


H^™Bl {&£&
mm*
J
TP
gSfcS; ...
",
I *J
<#P*i
Most Modern Hotel
The hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE <o PP . Railway station)
200 Rooms 200 Baths > 4
TARIFF PER DAY:
Room and Meals 2 V*
Room and Breakfast 15/-
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Isn’t it time Australia’s Red Army was
given its marching orders?
¥ ¥
At any rate, our hit-run motorists are
patriotic—they do use Australian bodies.
¥ *
“Mr. Lang’s pronouncements have shocked the
whole Empire.”— “S. M. Herald,”
And the result is he thinks he’s a live
wire.
H- *
MARKET REPORT.
“Wife worth £loo,”— “Sunday Guardian.”
Wife Sales, Ltd., records a sharp demand
for tongue-tied varieties. Economicals are
inclined to harden under existing circum-
stances, but flighty sorts are still in keen
demand by prospective co-res. Clings are
asked for occasionally. Naggers, on the
other hand, are an absolute drug on the
market, with a heavy carry-over from pre-
vious sales. Until such time as some sort
of a trade treaty between Australia and
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES.
“Do you think it will be long before your sister makes her
appearance?”
“She’s upstairs making it now.”
the Cannibal Islands is negotiated the out-
look for nagging sorts is anything but pro-
mising. Prime inebriates, carrying plenty
of condition and brightly colored as regards
their noses, failed to elicit a single offer.
The prevailing world-shortage of beer-money
is blamed.
McM.
# *
“Delegates, including the members of Parliament
mentioned, attended a ‘smoke-oh’ at which Mr. H.
Bowers sang and Mr. W. King also wobbled effec-
tively.”—“Tramway Gazette.”
It’s a safe bet he didn’t wobble as effec-
tively as the politicians.
“Henry Sway has been arrested in Melbourne on
27 charges.”
•Toy reigned for a time, no doubt, but the
police now hold Sway.
* *
HALF-TIME.
“When he wag late he explained that be had
lingered over a last drink, but growing suspicions
she found a letter in his pocket, signed ‘Doris’.
—Divorce Court report,
A depch-and-doris kept him late,
He swore, with one named Morris;
She had. her doubts about the deoch,
But she teas sure of Doris!
Percy P.
* *
And another name for it is the Lung Plan.
¥ *
“The world-flier enjoyed a long, cool drink of beer
at Darwin.”
It would be curious if he couldn’t get a
beer out of all those hops.
“The price of a haircut in Melbourne has been
reduced to a shilling.”— “Herald.”
Barbers’ racing information, however, will
be as expensive as ever.
¥ ¥
“General Pershing’s book has astonished Europe
with its futile boast that ‘America won the war.’ ”
Well, it certainly got the winner’s end of
the purse.
“In the prelim. .Jeff Rock outed Sammy Moses."
A reversal of form, this. In the Scrip-
tures, it will be remembered, “Moses smote
the Rock.”
*¥•
THE BOUT.
“On the right Sir Robert Gibson, and on the
left John T. Lang, with one to win.”
—“Sunday Guardian.”
As usual, “Bilker” Langi weighed in light
“Tightwad” Gibson settled down to business
from the first bell, and the Trades Hall lad’s
celebrated side-stepping and feinting soon
failed before the enemy’s forthright tactics.
"Bilker’s” much-boomed Upper-cut proved a
dismal failure. “He’s
not Game,” jeered
barrackers •in the
bleachers. “A pretty
Beasley exhibition,”
was the press table’s
comment. “Bilker”
bounced out of his
corner for the last
round, but “Tight-
wad” bounced back
with a nasty jolt to
the lOU, and that
was that. “Bilker”
went down babbling
of bloodsuckers for
the full count —
something like
£10,000,000.
McM.
V- V-
FAME !
The new arrival in
the canine paradise
looked eagerly about
him. He knew he
was in Elysium by
the amazing number
of posts. Myriads of
his kind, from digni-
fied Great Danes to
mongrel pups,
abounded and all
seemed friendly. All,
that is, but one. He
had an arrogant air
which betokened in-
sufferable conceit.
“W hat’s his
trouble?” the new-
comer asked of a
passing peke. The
_ peke frostily rebuffed
the flippant tone of his interlocutor. “You
are evidently unaware,” he said coldly,
“that the being to whom you refer, and of
whose common stock we are so proud, actu-
ally had his death notice published in the
‘S. M. Herald.’ ” g y
* *
PROGRAMME OF ENTERTAINMENT
In Aid of N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank.
Fox Trot. “Flippity Flop,” State Ministry.
Choral, “Sleepers, Awake,” Charles Hardy
and Riverina Chorus.
Monologue, “Filthy Lucre,” J. T. Lang.
Part Song, “In Vain to Us You Plead”
(from “Iolantlie”), Commonwealth Bank
Board.
Monologue, “Not Understood” (broadcast
from London), Agent-General Willis.
Vocal, “A Fairy Went A-Marketing,”
Parker Moloney.
Chorus, “Poor Man’s Garden,” Jock
Garden and A.L.P. Chorus.
Choral. “Now Let the Loyal Lieges
Gather Round” (from “The Gondoliers”),
The New Guard.
Vocal. “The Beggar,” J. T. Lang.
Choral. “Unwillingly to These Sad Shores”
(from “Roussalka”). Returned Australian
Absentees.
ONCE CAUGHT, TWICE SHY.
"Do you mean to tell me you caught those fish about here?”
"No plurry fear! Don’t mean to tell anybody WHERE I
caught ’em!”
Choral (a) “Rose of Dear Old England.”
(b) “Boast Beef of Old England,” Commu-
nist Party.
Vocal, “I’m Painting the Clouds with
Sunshine” (broadcast from London).
Agent-General Willis.
Choral, “The More We Are Together."
A.F.A., Country Party, Nationalists and
Riverina Movement.
F. C.
* *
FAUX PAS.
“After one party my husband was taken home
to the wrong house.” —Melbourne witness.
A warning to the man who sinks
Strong liquor , costing cash in chunks —
Be careful how you mix your drinks,
But still more how yon mix your drunks!
P.
* *
MORE NOTABLE CENTENARIES.
This month will mark the hundredth birth-
day of one of our most picturesque Parlia-
mentary ceremonies,
the “Come-outsid-
ah’-I'll show-yer-yer-
eow” tableaux. Per-
formed originally at
a meeting of the
Wire Grass Rabbit
Board in 1831. its
possibilities were
realised by a politi-
cian of the time, and
he introduced it into
the next debate. Origi-
nally the parties did
go outside, but Par-
liamentary usage has
eliminated the
rougher features of
this great tradition.
This year will also
mark the hundredth
birthday of the un-
derworld, which was
originally created by
a junior reporter on
the Sydney "Herald.”
Threatened with the
sack If he used the
phrase “disciples of
Bacchus” again, he
conceived the idea
of describing a drun-
ken party found in
a cellar as “mem-
bers of the under-
world.” His memory will be honored this
month by grateful journalists, who will
gather on the site of the original cellar for
a tripe-and-onion supper.
Next month the Ancient Order of Mugs
will celebrate the birth of true punting in
Australia, the feat of Horatio Buggins in
getting through £5O belonging to himself and
£5OOO belonging to his, employers in a fort-
night in September, 1831. The performance
was rendered all the more meritorious by
the fact that Buggins did all his punting in
the then restricted metropolitan area, and
without the artificial stimulus of mid-week
pony-meetings. The Registrar in Bank-
ruptcy has kindly consented to unveil a
statue to Buggins in Queen’s-square during
the celebrations.
Supporters of the Lang Plan will honor
the memory shortly of Adolphus Scalem. who
was martyred in the cause of repudiation
a hundred years ago. Scalem obtained several
thousand pounds' worth of goods from Sydney
merchants and sold them. On the eve of
sailing to explain
the Scalem plan
abroad he was
thrown into gaol by
the financial blood-
suckers of the times.
Tributes will be paid
to the great-great-
grandfather of the
Lang Plan on the
spot, where he was
hanged.
THE IRE EDUCA-
TION.
Successful paper
by N.S.W. student
of the times :
Q.: Where is the
capital of N.S.W.?
A.: Mostly in Vic-
toria.
Q.: What is the
name of the present
Premier of your
State?
A.: Mud.
Q.: Describe the
form of government
under which you
live?
A.: ! *—; —;
* =i= 9 ? ;* ; r
Q.: Name three of
N.S.W.’s chief indus-
tries.
A.: Child endow-
ment, ponies and the
dole.
Q.: Give exact geographical location of
your great State.
A.: Trades Hall, Goulburn-street.
Q.: Name the man w T ho saw vast possi-
bilities in the pastoral industry.
A.: A. D. Kay. M
WORLD-BEATERS.
Pearce . . World’s Champion Sculler
Bradman.. .. „ Batsman
Lindrum . . „ „ Billiardist
Lang . . „ „ ? ? ? ?
A BIT OVER THE FENCE, THAT WAS.
Missie, that bloke over there’s eatin’ all yer binder-twine!”
“Long-distance tips are already being given about
the Melbourne Cup.” —Sydney paper.
That R.A.N. will be there or thereabouts
is the only cert we know at present.
* #
“The birds who haunt these city parks alone
show no signs of depression.”— “S.M.H.”
But, then, they live well, by crumbs!
PUZZLE.
Because his fire was out and cold
The boss' got very hot —
Said I teas shot, if truth be told,
And fired me on the spot,
It’s very strange, without a doubt:
If to be shot’s a sin,
Why should the boss have shot me out,
The beak have shot me in?
G. V.
DESCRIBED.
Tic hacked like mad; used all his wit
Trying to tear his steak apart,
But could not get a bit to chew.
Then what the butcher meant ho knew—
That tradesman had referred to it
As “tender as a woman’s heart,”
H. M.
TOPICAL QUESTION.
That fear lends wings may well be true;
The kindly lend a hand,
And distance lends enchantment to
A view, however grand,
But none of these encourage me
In all the doubts that rend me;
My banker I have got to see.
I wonder what he ’ll lend me?’
BROKO.


National Debt Conversion Loan
Commonwealth and State Ministers recently met in Council to devise measures for meeting the grave financial
emergency existing in Australia. Ministers agreed that the RESTORATION OF FINANCIAL STARIL.IT
can only be achieved through sacrifices SHARED IN BY ALL SECTIONS in the community, including
persons who hold investments in Government Loans.
The Commonwealth and State Parliaments having passed the necessary legislation, an APPEAL IS NOW
MADE TO ALL PERSONS who hold Commonwealth or State Securities to CONVERT THEIR HOLDINGS
into this new Loan.
Conversion will take effect from 3 1 st July, 1931,
and will be made on the basis of a reduction of 22\
per cent, of present interest rates.
Applications for conversion should be made —
(a) as regards Commonwealth Government
securities—to the Registrar of Stock at
the Commonwealth Bank in any capital
city or at Launceston, Rockhampton, or
Townsville;
(b) as regards State Government securities —
to the Registrar of Stock or Principal
Officer of the Treasury of the State con-
cerned.
(Where the securities are held by a Bank or
Savings Bank the application should be addressed to
that institution.)
Applications should contain particulars of and be
accompanied by the securities, unless the securities are
held by a Bank or Savings Bank.
Securities subject to Commonwealth Income Tax.
New rates of interest will be: —
(a) 4 per cent, as regards securities now bearing
more than 5 per cent.
(b) 31 per cent, as regards securities now bear-
ing 5 per cent. (4 per cent, securities may be
issued for an amount below par if desired.)
(c) 3 per cent, as regards securities now bearing
less than 3 per cent. (4 per cent, securities
may be issued for an amount below par if
desired.)
Where the above rates do not exactly represent a
reduction of per cent, the difference will be
adjusted by increasing or decreasing the amount of the
new securities.
New 4 per cent, securities will be repaid at par in
1938, 1941, 1944, 1947, 1950, 1953, 1955, 1957,
1959,1961.
New 4 per cent, and 3 per cent, securities will be
allotted as nearly as practicable equally among the
several maturity dates. Holdings up to £ 1 000, how-
ever, will be allotted to the early maturity dates.
New 31 per cent, securities will be repaid at par
in 1 947.
New 3 per cent, securities will be repaid at par
either in 1938 or 1 944.
The new securities will be issued in the form of
Australian Consolidated Inscribed Stock, or Aus-
tralian Consolidated Treasury Bonds, as desired.
Interest on the new securities will be payable
half-yearly and will be free—
(a) from Commonwealth taxes on income to
an extent greater than those imposed by the
Income Tax Acts 1930;
(b) from all income tax under the law of a State.
Tax-Free Securities.
New securities will bear interest at per cent,
less than present rates. Provided that not less than
3 per cent, will be paid in the case of securities
acquired before 4th August, 1914. Interest on the
new securities will remain free of Commonwealth and
State income tax.
The new securities will conform with existing
securities as regards duration, redemption and rate of
interest; but new securities issued in exchange for
existing securities maturing on or before 31 st
December, 1934, will, on maturity, be reconverted
into 4 per cent, securities maturing on 1 3th Novem-
ber, 1941.
Dissent from Conversion.
Persons wishing to dissent from conversion must
do so in writing identifying the securities. The notice
of dissent must be accompanied by the securities,
except as regards Inscribed Stock, and shall be
addressed as follows: —
(a) In the case of Commonwealth Government
Securities —to the Registrar of Stock at the
Commonwealth Bank in any capital city, or
Launceston, Rockhampton or Townsville;
(b) In the case of State Government Securities
—to the Registrar of Stock or Principal
Officer of the Treasury of the State con-
cerned.
Where, however, the securities are held by a
Bank or Savings Bank, the notice of dissent must be
addressed to that institution.
Where dissent is expressed, securities other than
Inscribed Stock shall be exchanged for Common-
wealth Government Inscribed Stock, and shall not
thereafter be exchangeable for Bonds or any other
form of security.
Persons wishing to dissent must do so within 2 1
days from 1 Oth August, 1931. In the case of persons
who have been absent from the Commonwealth from
6th August, 193 1, to 1 Oth August, 1931, dissent must
be notified not later than 21 st September, 1931.
General.
Trustees may convert into the new Loan.
New securities bearing interest at 4 per cent, or
31 per cent, per annum, and having fixed dates of
maturity, will be accepted at par in payment of Com-
monwealth Estate Duty.
Registers of stock will be closed from 10th
August, 1931, until further notified as regards all
transactions in respect of stock issued by the Common-
wealth or a State other than transactions provided for
in the Prospectus of this Loan.
Copies of Prospectus, containing full informa-
tion, may be obtained at all Banks, Savings Banks and
Money Order Post Offices.
The National Appeal Executive urges all holders of Commonwealth and State Securities to Convert AT ONCE.
Prime Minister.
Leader of the Opposition.
Chairman of Directors
of the Commonwealth Bank.


■A
£
Now YOU Can
Pay by CHEQUE
Everyone realises the advantages of
paying by cheque— many have not had
the opportunity of using such a banking
account. You can do so now with a
deposit this week. Earn interest—save
money.
HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
—KEEP IT GROWING.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
DFG
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
•breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
•policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional ’ expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS £ r CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. Op AUSTRALIA LTD.
Cha M oLpi r p tO / D p--£ Kd!y ’ Managing Director: H. Pell.
L Head Office .P.&o. Building corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
=~ * * o ts. Farmeis & Graziers Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. ~
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S PAGE
THE
STUFF TO CIVE'EM
MECCITT'S LINSEED MEAL
STOCK-FEEDING.
"Alf Alpha”: It is necessary to-feed so
that the mineral needs of the beast ate met.
In a paddock of natural pasture growing on
first-class grazing soil "the beasts" would
be feeding on fodder containing a much
higher mineral (ash) content than similar
pasture on a poorer soil in an area. a few
miles away. Similarly, super.-manured pas-
ture always contains more mineral than un-
manured pasture adjoining, and liming pro-
vides a pasture more richly endowed with
lime. The lime content of hay And'chaff will
depend appreciably upon the’'amount of lime
in the soil; and this explains why certain
shrewd dairymen always make sure of obtain-
ing their requirements in these commodities
from limestone country.
From personal experience' I know top-
dressing with sulphate of . amnionia purifies
the pasture in expelling what is generally
looked upon as rubbish. But is it rubbish?
Some of the despised weeds arc mineral
reservoirs, and the suggestion is that, natufe
in her goodness supplied the weed growth in
the pasture so that the grazing animal by
instinctive self-choice could endeavor to
balance any mineral deficiency in the food
herbage. It might be said that super, when
top-dressed on pasture will supply both
lime and phosphoric acid, and that lime
and phosphoric acid constitute the two main
mineral deficiencies in the soil (and plants)
of Australia. Quite true ; but . can’ the beast
eat sufficient of the succulent pasture daily-
to supply the required quantity of mineral?
The average cow needs from 301 b. to 351 b.
of lime per annum for her growth and body
maintenance, and about 151 b. for developing
the calf. On top of this she must obtain
-51 b. of the stuff for every 500 gallons of
milk produced—a total of 751 b. during the
year. Ordinary rations —paddock and shed—
will provide sufficient ash (mineral) to give
her 501 b. of lime annually, and on some
farms in limestone areas a further 151 b. is
derived from the drinking water, leaving a
deficiency of 101 b.-—and the danger of a
skeletal disease or breeding trouble develop-
ing. To avoid trouble we may feed lime in
the drinking water, or feed fodder of known
high lime, content in the ration, or feed
lime as a mineral lick. It is a simple
matter to feed lime through dam water, but
this would be out of the question if the
drinking water is obtained from a river or
running creek ; in that case attention should
be paid to reinforcing the ration with a food
comparatively rich in-lime. A pound of
lucerne hay contains as much lime as a
hundredweight of green maize or approxi-
mately 41b. of an oil meal. Both foods may
be regarded as good sources of lime. Unfor-
tunately the cow is not able to tell us in
plain English how she is faring for lime,
so wo make “safety first” our slogan and
feed a mineral lick, preferably by self-choice.
Last April, when in north-east Vie. during
the fall of the leaf, I noticed stock pastured
on the roads congregating under the beauti-
ful elm-trees which occur at frequent inter-
vals by the wayside, and feeding on the
fallen leaves. In the paddocks, where the
farmers have long since proved the value of
top-dressed pasture and the stock lick, and
where elm-trees occur, the fallen leaves are
permitted to rot and form humus. Dry elm-
leaves are by no means a good fodder, but
they are rich in minerals (ash), and the
road stock become aware of the fact because
of a mineral deficiency in their ration. In
a part of this district there exists a small
co-operative society for the purpose of mak-
ing a stock lick (and blending fertilisers).
Their formula is simple: 40 parts of whiting,
35 parts of bonemeal (finely ground) or bone
flour, and 25 parts of ordinary salt, intim-
ately mixed, sieved and re-sieved. Every
cow owned by members of the syndicate
receives 241 b. per month of the mixture,
beginning with a small quantity and gradu-
ally increasing it until the above maximum
is reached.
PREPARATIONS FOR SHEARING.
“lass”: A manager in other days and a
shed overseer since, let me write, more in
sorrow than anger, that many otherwise
careful graziers are very lax in their shearing
preparations. A lot of .the starts are made
"by guess and by God.” Everything is left
till the last minute, and when the team
arrives on the ground requests for this and
that and complaints come thick and fast,
adding to the confusion.
It is wise to prepare for the following
year as soon as shearing is complete. The
expert should bo asked to report on the con-
dition of the plant, and repairs effected as
soon as possible. If the handpieces are
to be sent to workshops in the city, they
should be dispatched at once, and when
returned should be opened up and inspected
to see that all is well—not left packed in
the case till next year’s roll-call. That hap-
pened. on a job of mine, when it was dis-
covered that the ferrules had not been
returned. Order all necessities for shed
and hut when ordering your woolpacks, and
make sure-the list is complete—-oils, kero-
sene, emery, glue,, bale-fasteners, ink, raddle,
twine (for ripped packs), a needle, branding
fluid, disinfectants, straw for the. bunks, and
the rest. See that your bale stencils
are all there and that your cooking-gear is
complete ; also that there are sufficient tubs
and washing-basins for the team. Petrol-
tins are becoming scarce these days, so save
all you can during the year and have plenty
made up as buckets when the men arrive,
remembering to keep a few for the washing
down of the board each Saturday.
Overhaul your press during the time that
you are repairing the sweating. Count out
pen gates, and if the ropes are old have a
new set in store to replace breakages with-
out loss of time. See to the condition of
wool-tables and -baskets. If the taps in the
shed and the men’s showers have not been
used since last season replace the washers
on the valves. Have a good stack of wood
on the ground, and provide the “babbler”
with a sharp axe. You may deprive him
of his most cherished privilege—growling—
but you will make a smooth start. Finally.
I would suggest firing up the engine about
a fortnight before the start and. giving the
machinery a run. Any defective packing on
the engine or tight bearings in the machinery
will then be apparent.
HAND-MILKING.
"Booraby": When I go into a cowyard
where milking is done by hand the first thing
I notice is the milkman’s hands and his
method of milking. Some hands I have seen
in operation were disgusting, and these milk-
men had a dirty habit of dipping the fingers
in the milk to wet the teats. Some men
milked with the thumb, and fingers; others
held the teat between two fingers. Both
necessarily pulled and stretched the teats,
and were slow. Their methods were irritat-
ing to the animal, and made sore teats —or
aggravated such where the skin was cracked.
None of these things should be tolerated.
The proper method is to grip with the whole
hand, exerting pressure without dragging,
and alternately slightly opening and closing
the hand. The udder should be wiped with
a cloth before, commencing, and the hands
washed after every cow. The milking should
be done quickly and gently. It has been
shown by actual tests that quick milking-
gets better results in quantity and quality
than slow milking. The last of the milk
is the richest in butter-fat, and through the
cow responding better to the quick hand
he gets, more of the strippings than the slow
hand does. It must not be forgotten, how-
ever, that treatment and manipulation have
a lot to do with results. You will get
more milk from a cow that is bailed up
quietly with a pat than from one that is
rushed in with a waddy. I have heard many
dairymen say that cows are quieter and
respond better to women than to men.
Women are gentler, and their hands are
softer in feel and action. Cows don’t like
rough, heavy hands. Neither do they like
the man who sticks his head against t heir
flanks when milking. This is another com-
mon bad habit. Besides being annoying to
the cow, the head rubs off hairs and din
that fall into the bucket.
Many good dairymen go to much expense
and trouble to keep a first-class herd, but
are careless as to their assistants’ methods,
borne men never make good milkers, and the
ways and manner of others have the same
nervous effect on cows as on young horses.
The two chief rules in the cowyard should
be cleanliness and kindness. A cow that is
roughly handled or ill-treated is always a
< 3i rty cow in the bail. A good plan with
heifers is to yard them with the cows before
they calve, and get them used to the bails
by putting them through the pass-out gates.
They can be got quiet enough to handle in
the yard, and then, wdien the time comes
for breaking-in, they may be got into the
bail without roping. Don’t rope if you can
avoid it, aud never be in a hurry with a
young cow —nor leave her till the last with
no mates in the yard.
Finally, dispense as early as possible with
the legrope, and at no time tie her leg back
from a comfortable standing position. Put
the spancel on from the first, so that site
hardly notices that it is on.
“PIGS WILL DO ME !”
“Hector”: One day last April a man came
here. (Coolah, N.S.W.) with a lorry load of
wild pigs from Walgett. There were 25 of
them, with snouts about a foot long and
greyhound bodies. He wanted 1,58. each. I
gave him 24 bags of wheat and £s—say, 10s.
apiece.
I fenced off an acre paddock, built two
sties, cut some troughs and fed the pigs on
wheat, oats and cut lucerne. They soon
quietened down and began -to thrive.
Full of optimism I got a splendid Yoi’k-
shire boar —14 of the 25 were sows. Every-
thing was going like clockwork, until last
month I suddenly realised that I was faced
with the prospect of having hundreds of
piglets by September and no organisation
to cope with such numbers ; so I set about
trying to turn some of them into cash or
equivalents. My first “barter” was three
sows and two barrows for two springing
heifers; next I traded live sows for a bag
of lucerne seed (1801 b.), swapped a pony for
the Walgett boar, and sold seven barrows for
£7. A neighbor helped me crutch 2000
sheep; I gave him two barrows in lieu of
cash.
I expect to sell the Yorkshire boar and
three sows for £lO cash. This will leave
me with three sows on hand due to litter in
September. To sum up, my outgo has been :
To cash for pigs, £5 ; 24 bags of wheat, at
55., £6; feeding nigs for three months, £9;
value of pony exchanged, £5 ; fencing sties,
etc., £5 ; total, £3O. Income 1 : Two heifers,
£l2; 1801 b. of lucerne seed, £9; cash £l7;
total £3B. Balance in my favor, £B. Stock
on hand, three sows, with hopes of 30 piglets
by September. Pigs will do me!
THE NEW N.S.W. MEAT BOARD
CHAIRMAN.
A. W. Scott, the new chairman of the
Metropolitan Meat Industry Board, begins
his work amid a chorus of good wishes.
Among others to offer congratulations and
co-operation was the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W. In reply to this letter Mr. Scott
wrote:—
My acceptance was solely because I believed that
1 would be of definite service to the producers. You
know I have for some years been a keen advocate
for reform. I have always maintained that the
producer is not getting a fair deal, and, further-
more, that the consumer has been paying a price
that is not justifigd. I have, from time to time,
advocated truly co-operative control by producers,
and I still believe that this is the oue and onlv
solution.
I have at the present moment definite evidence
that as far as the export market is concerned I
can secure contracts that will make all the differ-
ence between success and failure for the man on
the land in N. S. Wales; but before making details
public in connection with this matter, my first
job must be an investigation of the conditions pre-
vailing at this end, so that I shall be able to speak
in definite terms as to the alterations that I con-
sider should be made to enable us to secure these
much-needed increased sales overseas.
SUGAR-GUMS AND WATTLE.
“Leo Lear” : Landholders on the western
plains of Victoria have done wonders with
plantations. Many wind-swept portions of
southern Australia would benefit by like
attention. As regards gums, broadcasting the
seed is the cheapest and most effective way
of doing the job, and September the best
month to do it. Plough and harrow the
ground; when seed is sown a very light
harrow will be sufficient. By mixing seed
with sand a more even distribution can be
made.
In the parts to which I refer sugar-gums
and bastard mahogany are the quickest
growers, but they run tall and lanky. To
counter this,, use with the gums a mixture of
wattles, Cootamundra, golden and longleaf—
the last is specially recommended, as it
grows bushy and often trails to the ground,
thus preventing draughts. Wattle-seed will
need soaking in boiling water for five minutes
before sowing. Such a mixed plantation will
be an effective shelter within five years, but
it won t do well on land that has been top-
dressed. For the latter use pines, but cut
out the centre shoot when the. trees are about
three feet high. The lower branches will
then stool out and stop the cold ground wind,
so objectionable in this class of shelter.
Every locality has its own suitable tree, but
those mentioned will grow almost anywhere
in Vic. or southern New South Wales.
TREE-FELLING.
“Benbow” : This is better than “Bad Austra-
lian’s” method of tree-felling (B. 22/7/’3l).
First plumb your tree to find which way it
inclines. If your eye alonejs not sufficiently
practised, hang a string, or your bar or
axe-handle, first one way, then at right-
angles, and note if the limbs are-heavier on
one side, as they will tend to draw the tree
when it is falling. Then see that the way
is clear of trees for yours to fall, and whether
to avoid a rise or gully where your barrel
may shatter. With, the a"xe alone every tree
can be felled one of three ways, either
directly with its lean or pulled to either side
Never cut the corners.
Now space two or three small logs or limbs
along where your barrel will lie in order
to raise it from the ground. Cut the front
scarf directly, facing where your log is 1.,
lie; then the back scarf parallel with the
front one. W hen the fall starts don't run.
Stand a little back and to one side of the
stump with a few feet clear getaway • watch
your tree until certain of its clear'fall, and
look our for “sailers”—broken limbs living
back.
With a mate, using a saw for the back
scarl, most trees can be driven any way
even against their lean, if big enough to bury
the saw and enter a wedge before it pinches.
But until that is done do not start your
front scarf; all that wood is needed in sup-
port. Have one handle of the saw easily
detachable (a square slotted bolt and spring-
Pin is best) ; you can then finish the last
strokes of the cut without that handle and
draw out (to obviate pinching) without
shifting wedges.
First bark a ring round to give the saw a
ciCcir run. One blow with the axe will give
you sufficient nick to start the sawcut; and
then keep straight across towards the line of
fall, entering a wedge as soon as possible
Don t cut towards first one side and then the
other; you’ll jamb on the wedge and gain
nothing. Hawing got your cut well in and
the wedges gripping, put in a small front
scarf with the axe entirely bcloiv the line of
saw-cut; -then when the tree is down you
can finish your cut straight through above
the “sloven” and have no spoiled billet.
In working on a hillside, fell your tree if
possible across the hill, not down it. Your
cuts will be truer, and you can work the
saw easily single-handed.
KILLING THE NEW TOBACCO TRADE.
"Referee”: Another rejuvenated Austra-
lian industry is being cold-bloodedly mur-
dered by the greed of go-getters and land
sharks. Just when everything is favorable
for a resurrection of the local tobacco-
growing and -making industry, hungry men
who live by speculation, and whose sole
knowledge of business is to buy something
for £1 and sell it for 80s., are destroying it at
birth by shoving inexperienced men into the
growing end. At the making end the
industry is being killed at the outset by the
simple process of rushing green leaf on to the
market and selling it as sample Australian
tobacco. It will be neither the Govern-
ment’s nor the people’s fault that the indus-
try dies before it has really lived. Retail-
ing tobacconists assure, me that the con-
sumer is giving the new stuff “ a fair go,”
that the demand was solid and has been
consistent —but that the same consumer
never buys twice! This last fact was so
repeatedly drummed into me that I cannot
doubt its truth. So it looks that the S’Afri-
can experience will be repeated in Australia.
(springbok tobacco was acknowledged at one
time as the world’s finest, and had a virtual
monopoly of the European trade. But there
was no control, and S’African farmers,
anxious to make, money in a hurry, picked
and packed rubbish and sent it away to the
buying countries, with the result that the
stuff s reputation was soon busted, and the
American competitor displaced it on the
market. The Australian experience, even
fae local market, is likely to repeat the
S African one, in view of current events.
It will be no good blaming the Trust
when the local industry has been decently
interred, for the fault will be in ourselves.
The Government, having afforded the local
grower and factory their greatest opportu-
nity through the protection it has given,
should now go a step further and set about
controlling the distribution so as to prevent
tae sale or attempted sale of green tobaccos,
rubbish. and inferior qualities or the sale
of inferior imported brands as Australian —
the latter a device which has been previously
employed, to ruin the local product.
In addition, it should prevent the growing
of tobaccos on any but suitable soil. Land
is now being sold on the Darling Downs for
cultivation by tobacco-growers, and it can
be definitely said that the leaf which this
.soil produces vvould be more useful as a
kind of synthetic leather than as smoking
tobacco. It is only in the north of Queens-
land that the right texture leaf is likely
to be produced, and even that can’t be made
attractive smoking if it is to be put on the
market green, as is now being done.
LIFE OF BANANA PLANTATIONS.
‘Johnno”: The common impression is
that the profitable life of a banana planta-
tion is five; years. This is right enough as
regards the heavier soils and the rich alluvial
nver-bank scrub lands —though some of these
will produce good bananas after eight and
nine years of continuous cropping—but there
is land capable of growing excellent bananas
that becomes exhausted after the second year,
then plantations quickly fall back and
become unprofitable to work. It would be
a mistake to pay a high price for land of this


3 91-
Free of Sales Tax.
6 Volts —11 Plates
Dagenite
FLEET
'M AUST^ V
a
Price is now no bar to quality, for in the
Dagenite Fleet Battery you get a reliable
long-service-giving battery at the price
of a cheap one.
Also
12Volts 7 Plates for
65
Free of Sales Tax.
BATTERIES
Factory Representative :
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
4GB
ECONOMY and HEALTH
It is a real pleasure to slip on a RAMENO Sweater
and Hose—you have the feeling of absolute comfort and
physical well-being that comes from wearing perfectly-
knitted, snug-fitting garments from fine, soft Australian
Wools that keep chills away.
Besides, Rameno Sweaters and Hose are correct in
style and tasteful in color —essentially garments of the
high quality that assures the most durable and economical
wear.
c M£X/SVO-H3V7r’’
CARDIGANS and SWEATERS
SOCKS and GOLF, STOCKINGS
y.
m
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer fcr
"Rameno" Brand
"Merino-Knit”
Cardigans.
Sweaters,
Half Hose
é
Merino -snit y
Q/fJAlwai/s fit
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
S'
m
m
.
m
m
‘lt's a
Murdoch’
Money-saving
Service-giving
Clothes for
the Man on the Land
MURDOCH’S supply everything from a Shoelace to
a Sombrero—from a Collar Stud to a complete
rig-out— at the lowest prices in the land!
6C
Toughite” Shirts
Murdoch’s celebrated Harvard Work Shirts,
double sewn, attached collar, breast pocket,
button cuffs
6/6
Toughite” Trousers
Super strong make “Toughite” (Regd.)
Trousers for Men, side or cross pockets,
plain bottoms
«.v > ■:
11/6
Riding Breeches
“Toughite” (Regd.) Cotton Tweed Riding
Breeches for Men, cross pockets, medium
balloons, strapped knees
19/6
Sac Suits
* Men’s splendid quality Worsted Sac Suits,
serviceable Grey shades; coat, vest and
trousers ready for service
Higher Grade Worsteds, 63/- and 103/-
ê
Boots
Murdoch’s Ideal Service Boots, Black Box
Hide Derby, mock toecap, watertight
tongues; double-decker sewn and screwed
soles
Others, 17/11, 18/11, 22/6
15/6
Leggings
Four-buckle side Leggings, with toe-
piece and foot strap. All buckles
strongly riveted. Murdoch’s Price . .
14/11
Sombrero Hats
Murdoch’s Australian-made Hats for out
o’ doors. Brim 4-|in. wide, crown 6Jin.
Pure Fur Felt, plaited leather band.
Sizes 6-2- to
27/6
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address all letters to Desk “R
parK&GEORGESs SYDNEY
‘THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”


DISTINCTLY SUPERIOR TO THE
:' '>’ ;
k
IK
m
m
m
VERY BEST
MADE IN U.S.A
Read what IS
years’ comparison
proved.
Alameda, Cal., U.S.A.,
June 12. 1931.
Messrs. ABBEY. LTD.,
Sydney, Australia.
Dear Sirs, —The parcel of hoots,
shoes, etc. arrived in yood condi-
tion.
May I compliment yom on the
exclusive design, excellent finish and
extraordinary durability of your
fine shoes.
During the past 15 years I have
compared your shoes until the very
best made in U.S.A., and can say
that the Abbey shoe is distinctly
superior.
Here’s unsought tribute to Australian design and workmanship....
and good Australian leather. The Abbey Shoe photographed
above is one of the styles that have been selling in America. Built
on a specially-designed and exclusive last, its glossy, black veloui
calf upper incorporates all the natural curves of the foot, fitting over
the instep arch with perfect ease. There’s no strain anywhere. .. .
“made-to-measure” comfort is assured, because each full and half-
size is available in four widths, narrow, medium, wide and extra-
wide. For the sole, only the toughest obtainable leather is used.
Abbey footwear, too, is unsurpassed for flexibility.
Order by Post.
Specify both width and length required and order, also, the correct
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy cleaning
outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39 6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 GEORGE STREET AND 224 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FPL242. TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “ABBEY, BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MERCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED /.C/7.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
è
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents gnd Correspondents throughout the ivorld.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
é
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD hts any ordinary blade razor, f, 4, f inch.
With this Guard you. can shave with perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
Xshe
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-aay Sets—7 Razors in oak case—Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
“PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in two
widths—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
description, which is of volcanic origin and
more or less sandy, notwithstanding that it
produces the primest of fruit.
The banana does best in a soil in which
there is a high percentage of sand. In such
soils the humus is quickly exhausted, and
the supply of available potash soon gives
out. In light soils, too, the successive growth
of suckers comes to the surface much sooner
than in the case of the heavier and more
fertile soils. Intending growers without
experience are advised to satisfy themselves
thoroughly that the ground they fancy is
suitable for bananas before embarking on
this, at present, somewhat uncertain industry,
and that the locality is not visited by frosts,
heavy or light. And don’t speculate in ground
that has already been cropped; the banana
requires virgin soil —scrub land for prefer-
ence.
WORKING BEES UP TO STRENGTH'.
“Larrapinta”: Some men get their bees up
to full working strength, while others in the
same district cannot do so. Success is a
matter of knowing what to do and when to
do it—and doing it. The man who neglects
to put his bees: into a good spot for
wintering, with all details as to stores of
pollen and honey attended to, is only laying-
up trouble for himself.
The first visit after the winter should
be made in the first warm spell in August.
Lift the cover, ascertain the state of the
colony as quickly as possible and replace;
then write on the front of the hive with a
carpenter’s pencil the condition of the colony
in abbreviations which you will understand.
For example, “3 B. Y. Q. Feed. Aug. 11,”
will mean that the colony had three frames
of brood and a young queen on August 11.
but needed feeding. Next, place stones on
the cover, so that you may see the state
of a row of hives by simply glancing along
it. For example, two stones on the back of a
cover indicate a poor swarm, which is also
queenless or in need of re-queening; one on
the back, a fairly strong swarm with a poor
queen • one in the centre, a colony in fair
condition; one on the front edge, a good
one ; two on the front, a “beauty.” *
Next time you visit the apiary you must
go carefully through every hive, and, after
making sure that no disease exists, bring
all the colonies which have good queens up
to the same strength of brood by shifting
combs from the stronger to the weaker.
Where the weak colonies haven’t enough
workers to look after the brood you have
given them, tip a lot of workers from a strong
hive into a small box, sprinkle them well
with honey-syrup, and give them to the
weak colony. They will remain in long
enough to attend to the brood if a! block of
candied honey is put on top of the frames.
They work on this instead of going l back to
their old home first time they fly out again,
with the result that enough young bees have
hatched out to do the job by the time the
candied honey has been used up. You must
mark any below par to be requeened as soon
as possible, and don’t help these colonies
with either bees or brood until the young
queen has proved her fitness.
From now on do not aid the colonies
which have been equalised, otherwise you
have no way of telling whether the breed of
bee is any good or not. Every dusk visit each
hive in turn, and by means of a small syringe
with a bent nozzle squirt about a quarter
of a pint of tepid honey syrup (three parts
water to one of honey) up through the
entrance on to the bees clustered on the
combs. This has a wonderfully stimulating-
effect.
You are bound to feel .sorry as you
kill a queen which has been such a
faithful little servant, but it must be done,
for these elderly .ladies have a habit of
giving out right in the middle of a honev
flow. As regards overforcing, the fatal error
is to push empty combs into the centre of
the brood-nest of a weak colony for the queen
to lay in, hoping thus to increase the working
force. This must be left until the bees
have of their own accord spread over at
least four brood combs, each of which is
nearly all sealed brood, with a big surplus of
workers into the bargain. When you can
force them all they will stand without fear.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the best sheep-dip on the
market? (2) Is it used solely for destroying
ticks in the wool? (3) Can an experienced
sheep-breeder tell by the feel of the wool
what brand of dip has been used for
dipping ? —4606.
(1) There is no recognised best dip. Most
of them are efficient for the purpose for
which they are sold. (2) They are used
for destroying ticks and lice in the wool,
and some vendors claim that the use of their
dip imparts a lustre, and in other ways
improves the wool sample. (3) No.
(1) What is the origin of red-polled
cattle? (2) Are they suitable for crossing
with a milking strain in a cold climate? —
4870.
(1) They are descended from the native
breeds of Norfolk and Suffolk, which were
respectively red and horned and dun and
polled. Other breeds, such as Galloway, may
have been used to bring in occasional crosses.
(2) Yes.
(1) Cost of ai charcoal-burner to work a
1929 -model catei'pillar two-ton tractor? (2)
How could I construct and fit one? (3)
What amount of charcoal equals a gallon of
petrol ?—4807.
(1) £6O to £lOO. (2) It is a job for an
experienced engineer with special knowledge.
(3) About 2211 b.
(1) Method of obtaining gras»-tree resin?
(2) Method of cleaning it? (3) Is a
license necessary before one can gather the
resin? (4) Names and addresses of Sydney
buyers? (5) Any books on the subject? —
4735.
(1) After a preliminary trimming to
remove charred portions, the leaf bases are
cut away from the trunk with an axe, in such
a way that when leaf bases and gum fall
into the hessian-covered framework placed
to receive them they separate. (2) The mix-
ture of leaf bases and gum is put through a
“jigger,” an arrangement of sieves. (3)
A permit costing 30s. per month (without
royalty) in the county of Cumberland; else-
where in N.S.W., 2s. 6d. for a license, and
a royalty of £2 per ton. (4) Lohmann and
Co., 26 Bridge-street; Robert Bryce and Co.,
414 Ivent-street; Hermann Haege, 379 Kent-
street; and R. N. Sleenbohm, 14 Royal-
arcade—all Sydney. (5) Bulletin No. 16,
“Grass-tree Resin,” Technological Museum.
Sydney, 6d.
d) What is the current price of fox-
skins? (2) How to skin them? —4691.
(1) 7s. to 10s. according to size, quality
and color. (2) Open from chin, down under
side to tail, and along under part of legs.
In taking off the pelt, use the knife as little
as possible. If you can hang him by the
hind legs, after opening the skin, strip the
tail first, and then peel the. skin off; other-
wise, do one side first, pulling the skin with
the left hand and pressing the carcase with
the right fist. This will be easier if the
skinning is done before the body stiffens.
7 am the owner of a cottage and! an acre
of land at Croydon (Vic.), and want to
make a living by using the land. (1) Is
flower-growing profitable, and what sorts
bring the best price? (2) Would goose-
berries do well, and how soon would they
produce sufficient, to be payable? (3) Are
Angora rabbits profitable? (4) How many
fowls are needed to make poultry-farming
pay? —424l.
(1) Overcrowded at present. Flowers
bringing best prices from the open culture
system in the hill country are liliums, lily
of the valley, alstroemeria, gladiolus, mignon-
ette, wallflower, stocks and pansies. (2)
They thrive in your district and produce
good crops from the second year. (3) The
keeping of Angora rabbits is prohibited in
Vic. (4) Depends on quality of stock and
management. Ask Agriculture Department,
Melbourne, to forward Poultry Bulletin, sd.
(1) What varieties of tobacco are suit-
able for growing on fairly strong soil in
the Tumut district (N.S.W.)? (2) Where
can seed be obtained? (3) Is kiln or sun-
dried, preferred by manufacturers? —4732.
(1) Hickory Pryor, Warne, Conqueror or
White Stem Oronoko. (2) From Acting-
Director of Tobacco Investigation. Can-
berra. (3) The largest buyers will pur-
chase flue-cured tobacco only.
I have a lemon-tree which was grown
from a pip, and / was informed that i
would not bear fruit unless it was grafted
to another stock. In the seventh year it
bore fruit, and has now been bearing for
four years. ,Thc fruit is pipless. What’s
the reason? —4648.
You were misinformed. A seedling
lemon-tree will bear fruit without grafting
on to another stock. The pipless nature of
the fruit is not remarkable. There are so-
called “pipless” varieties of lemons, but if
you look carefully you will find there are
one or more seeds in each fruit.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Crom” : A straining-fork that will not get
burnt or broken is always handy, especially
Avh ere timber is scarce. Get a piece of .Jin.
piping 6in. long and two pieces of round
iron fin, in diameter and 2ft. long. Insert
the two pieces of iron in the pipe and wedge
firmly with iron wedges; now bend the
handles: outwards till they are ISin. apart
at the wide end, and just bend them slightly
so that the ends run parallel. With that you
can strain the fences till the wires ring
again.
“Beady”: Although yarding sheep each
night at mating-time necessitates more work,
it pays to do it. A neighbor of mine was
dissatisfied with his 1930 drop of lambs.
This year he acted upon the advice of a
N.S.W. Government sheep expert, and yarded
liis .sheep every night throughout the mating
season. Result, a 15 per cent, increase on
his 1930 drop.
“Yarri” : To make a weatherproof white-
wash for outside walls, slake 30lb. of quick-
lime in 7gal. of water; add a pound of j
common salt and half a pound of zinc sul-
plate, dissolved in a gallon of boiling
water, and, last, a gallon of skim milk
Mix all together thoroughly. Ordinary
whitewash, for inside use, is made with
quicklime and water in the proportion of
5 to 1. An ounce of powdered alum to each
gallon of whitewash will prevent it rubbing
off. The addition of a little soap, dissolved,
will give it a gloss.
“Bufforp”: For bandaging'trees to catch
codlin-moths, try old inner-tubes from motor-
tyres ; they make clean and lasting fixtures.
“Ayrshire”: Bet me put in a word for
the trench silo. For preference dig it on a
bit of a slope, so that no water will lodge,
and make it 10ft. wide at the bottom, 12 ft.
wide at the top and about Bft. deep. Length
is a matter of convenience. The end walls
slope so that a cart can be driven in one
end along the bottom of the trench and out
the other. The crop should be packed well
especially at the sides. This can be done
by having a boy ride a pony over the crop
as it is put in. With this method of silage
no blower is necessary, there is no depre-
ciation and no insurance to pay. It is easy
to feed from, a cart being backed in one
end of the trench and a slice taken off the
silage stack each day. Earth and a few old
posts make an effective top.
“C. Sandig”: The cultivation of the
chrysanthemum on a more extensive scale
might provide the man out back with a valu-
able weapon of attack on the blowfly. Dur-
ing recent years preparations of pyrethrum
-—derived from the flowers —have been on
the market in America for insecticidal pur-
poses. Pyrethrum, the active principle, is
harmless to man and warm-blooded animals,
but acting as a nerve poison is one of the
most potent insect-destroyers known.
“Dimon” ■; Generally the first part of a
galvanised-iron roof that rusts through and
leaks is where the top and bottom sheets
lap. To repair that, instead of replacing
the sheets cut a piece of iron a foot wide
and slip it under the bottom end of the
top sheet.
“Hatter”: “Tumbe Munda” (B. 22/7/’3l)
recommends the sowing of flatweed or cat’s-
car. This plant resists drought and may have
certain uses where the land is too dry and
poor to grown better herbage, but with its
mat-like growth it chokes out more useful
grasses. It is often found with rib grass or
plantain. Land infested with these weeds,
if manured with phosphates, will frequently
develon white clover unless conditions are
too arid.


Our Servuce Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service, is entirely frese. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must he confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is, reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier, customs exp., wants work in any
responsible capacity.—4933.
Man, journalistic exp., wants position as proof-
reader or general representative.—4934.
Mother and daughter, N.S.W., want position cook-
ing and light housework. —4932.
Young man on N.S.W. Govt, experiment farm-
wants job or. W.A. farm. —4877.
Lady, N.S.W., kindergarten training, wants posi-
tion as nursery governess to young children, country
preferred.—4B6B.
Business woman (N.S.W.), with newspaper exp.,
wants employment.—4B66.
Young man (18), Sydney, good physique, some
exp. sheep, wants job as jackeroo.—4B7B.
Young Victorian, car owner, wants to hear of
opening for services.—4B7s.
Man with £lOO seeks interesting occupation for
self and money.—4BB7.
Young man, Vic., wants partner for venture in the
Far North, New Guinea or Islands. Pay own fare.
—4BBl.
Wanted two men, exp. in tomato- and vegetable-
growing, to work good land on shares; bananas to
be planted later.—4B96.
Journalist, sailor, prospector, starting from Sydney
for North Q’land in a few weeks, wants any kind
of interesting work on seaboard or inland. —4895.
Prospector, 26, large experience with blacks in
C.A. and N.A., wants backing for prospecting trip
in New Guinea or N. Australia.—49l4.
Whereabouts of Poole. and Kent, both interested
in Cape York mining and fishing venture. —4888.
To buy hand printing press and type.—49s2.
To buy words of poem “I’m a Better Man To-day,
Dear,” by H. C. Halloran.—4B63.
To buy, second-hand, Valdivia’s “Conquest of
Chile,” Diaz’s “Diary of Conquest of Mexico,” Stan-
ley’s “Darkest Africa” (1878 edition), and any
other books on Stanley and Livingstone.—4B6o.
To buy Havelock Ellis’s “Psychology of Sex.”
—4876.
To buy or borrow copy of vocal duet “Very Sus-
picious.”—4BB9.
Information Sought.
Can I connect two dwellings by telephone
without reference to the postal authorities?
The houses are on blocks of land separated
by a street. — 4744.
You must make written application to the
Deputy Director of Posts and Telegraphs,
G.P.0., Sydney, before doing such work.
How did the knickerbockers worn by
golfers become known as “plus-fours” ? Where
did the custom of wearing them originate,
and icas it due to golf? —4B2B.
There are several versions. One is that
the garments got their name because they
were first affected by the best players in
clubs—the “plus-four” handicap men.
Another is that the term is derived from
the “plus four inches” laid down as the fold
over the puttee of the pantaloons of regular
infantry regiments—particularly the Guards.
What is the difference between the con-
certina and' accordion? Who were the
inventors of both? Has either any artistic
value? —4930.
The concertina usually has hexagonal
bellows and a keyboard at both ends. It was
invented by Sir Charles Wheatstone in 1827.
The accordion, invented by Damian, of
Vienna, in 1829, has rectangular bellows
and the keyboard is at the right-hand end.
Neither instrument is of musical importance.
How is “Sans Egal” bagatelle played? 1
can play the ordinary kind. —4925.
It is played by two persons, one taking
the four white and the other the four red
balls. The black ball is placed as in the
ordinary game, and the players each play
one ball alternately. Each ball played must
strike the black until the black is holed:
if it fails to do so it is not removed from
the board, but the player forfeits five points,
and does not count the score made by that
hall should it drop into a hole. The player
who holes the black scores the value of the
hole and that of each hole occupied by his
own, whether holed by himself or by his
opponent. The highest scorer with his four
balls wins, unless it had been agreed upon
that the game should be for a definite num-
ber of points, usually 25 or 31.
(1) What rights has an adopted child
in Vic. in regard to his adopter’s estate and
his natural parents’ estate , also estates of
relatives of adopter and natural parents?
(2) Can an adopter marry an adopted
child f—49lS.
(1) Under the Vic. Adoption of Children
Act, 1928, an adopted child has the right
of succession, whether under an intestacy
or disposition, to the real and personal pro-
perty of an adopter, but not to that of its
natural parent or parents ; it has no rights of
succession to the property of adopting parents'
relatives, but has rights in the estates of
natural parents’ relatives. (2) No.
(1) Is the ship Success, now being ex-
hibited in U.S.A., the original? I have heard
it stated that the original sank at Sydney.
(2) Did she transport convicts to Australia?
(3) Was she ever a prison hulk? —4895.
(1) She is the original Success. In 1892
she sank at her moorings in Kerosene Bay
(Sydney) whilst being refitted by .specula-
tors for exhibition in London. She was
raised six months later. (2) No; on two
occasions (1849 and ’5l) she brought out
immigrants. (3) Yes, from 1853-57; the
prisoners held on her were serving sentences
for crimes committed in Vic.
What were the circumstances in which
Lloyd George and other politicians were
attacked respecting Marconi shares? —472o.
In 1912 the then Attorney-General, Sir
Rufus Isaacs, purchased 10,000 shares in the
American Marconi Co., just after the Post-
master-General had accepted the tender of
another Marconi co. for the erection of
wireless stations, and sold 1000 to Lloyd
George, then Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and 1000 to Lord Murray, the Chief Whip.
A Parliamentary committee inquired into the
matter in 1913, and the House of Commons
by 346 to 268 accepted the Ministers’ state-
ments.
How far was Leichhardt’s second and fatal
1848 trip traced by Gregory and others?—f
4789. , „
A. C. Gregory found in 1856 on the Elsey,
a tributary of the Roper (N.A.), a hut be-
lieved to have been put up by Leichhardt.
Other traces believed by some to be of Leich-
hardt but not proved beyond doubt_are: An
L-marked tree found by Gregory in ’5B on the
Barcoo, and two others standing in camps
found in ’52 by Ilcly and party on the
Nivelle. Another L-trec and two old saddle-
marked horses were found by Mclntyre on
a tributary of the Cloncurry.
Are there any municipal railway .» in Aus-
tralia? If so, length, and how do they stand\
as regards revenue and expenditure? —492o.
The Kerang Shire Council (Vic.) owns
and operates a railway, 13 miles 75 chains
in length. For the year ended Sept. 30, 1929,
the gross receipts were £7629, and the work-
ing expenses, including interest, £6793.
What is the meaning of (1) over-riding
commission, (2) garnishee order? —4923.
(1) Usually a commission paid a district
agent, who supervises the work of other
agents in his district, on all business done;
or, in the case of property .sales, a special
commission paid for securing more than the
reserve price. (2) A judicial order attach-
ing debts owing or accruing due from third
persons to a judgment debtor.
(1) When were adhesive stamps first
issued in N.S.W.? (2) Colors and prices?
(3) Designs?— 493s.
(.1) Jan. 1, 1850. (2) Red, penny; blue,
twopence; green, threepence. (3) All three
bore the same design, that of the then
N.S.W. seal —an allegorical Industry, with
bales, beehive and tools, receiving just-freed
convicts at Botany Bay, and pointing to
oxen ploughing and a fortified town crown-
ing a hill.
(1) How long did the 1890 maritime
strike last? (2) Were any woolsheds burned:
down during the 1894 Q’land shearers’
strike? (3) Were troops used in the 1891
strike?— 4B3l.
(1) From the middle of August until the
end of October. • (2) Yes, in September,
1894, sheds were burned at Cambridge
Downs, Manika and Dogworth stations. (3)
Mounted police and mounted infantry were
despatched to Clermont in February, 1891.
Can you give me any information concern-
ing a stamp issue said to be pending in
the Territory of New Guinea? —4936.
A new series is to be issued to commemo-
rate ten years of Australian occupation. The
central figure of the design is a bird of
paradise and the issue will range from Id.
to £l. The complete set will be overprinted
for air-mail purposes and all stamps up to
and including the ss.' value will be over-
printed “OS” for official use.
I have a white cockatoo which has been
moulting for the last 18 months. What will
remedy this? —4869.
Get a chemist to make up a solution of
liquor arsenicalis, so that a certain propor-
tion of water will contain one quarter of an
ordinary drop—the daily dose. Also give the
bird one grain per day of milk of sulphur.
Feed on maize, lettuce and green stuff gener-
ally, together with fruit, such as apples and
pears. Put a few drops of cod-liver oil on
the food.
(1) What is meant by “ overlap” as
applied to motor-cycle engines? (2) Usual
valve setting on a touring motor-cycle
engine? —4944.
(1) At the top of the exhaust stroke,
both inlet and exhaust valves are open simul-
taneously for a short period; this feature
is known as “overlap.” (2) Inlet valve
opens five degrees before top of stroke and
closes 40 degrees after bottom of stroke.
Exhaust valve opens 45 degrees before bot-
tom of explosion stroke and closes 10 degrees
after top of stroke.
/ owe' municipal rates on vacant land in
a Sydney suburb. What are a municipality’s
powers in this matter? —4724.
A council may obtain an equity order for
the enforcement of the charge at any time
within 20. years. If rates are outstanding
seven years it may have the land sold by the
Public Trustee.
What is the correct method of grinding
car-engin c valves? —493B.
First remove valve, and after cleaning it
place a thin even coat of coarse-grade valve-
grinding compound on the valve face.
Replace valve in its seat, and with a valve-
grinding tool bear down on the valve with
slight pressure and oscillate the valve back
and forth in its seat for a few seconds,
making sure the end of the valve stem is
clear of the tappet. Then with the free
hand reach under the stem, push the valve
up and off its, seat, revolve it one quarter of
a turn and let it fall back on its seat once
more. Oscillate back and forth once more
for a few seconds and again turn the valve
in the same direction for another quarter
of a turn, then proceed in the same way.
Make two complete' revolutions in this
manner and then examine both faces to see
if they are ground evenly all over. If so,
clean carefully and apply a small quantity
of fine-grade compound, repeating these
operations. Clean all the surfaces with
care and place a little oil on the stem before
replacing the valve in its seat, Do not allow
the compound to enter the cylinders. For
further particulars refer to “Dyke’s Auto-
mobile Encyclopedia,” page 772.
(1) How arc blue-prints of engineering
drawings madet How is the paper pre-
pared and inhere can J procure materials
and bookst (2) Brief description of method
of pumping or raising water by compressed
air? —47ll.
(1) A drawing is made on tracing linen
or on tracing paper, using Indian ink. The
blue printing paper can be purchased ready
sensitised from Harding and Ilalden, 9
Barrack-street, Sydney. The tracing is
placed in a printing frame over a piece of
this paper and exposed to the sunlight for
a few minutes. It is then taken from the
frame and washed in clear water, when the
parts affected by the light will turn blue
and the parts unaffected by the light—the
lines of the drawing—will remain white;
After washing the print it is hung up to
dry. Particulars as to sensitising solution,
etc., can be found in almost any book on
photography. (2) Air under pressure is
admitted to the foot of a pipe immersed in
the water to be lifted. By this means alter-
nate bands of air and water are, formed in
the pipe, and the air does not pass through
the water. The result of this is that, the
aggregate weight of the water in the pipe is
insufficient to balance the column of water
in the well or bore, and consequently the
pressure of the latter produces an upward
movement of the air and water in the rising
main. The air pressure for starting is
higher than for operating.
(1) When can privet and cypress plants
be set out to make a hedge? (2) How to
treat the soil, manures required and treat-
ment? —4942.
(1) To end of September. (2) Trench
soil deep, allowing for drainage. Thoroughly
mix rotted stable manures into the soil
before planting: a little blood-and-bone fer-
tiliser will be helpful after the plants ai’e
established. Where the hedges are close to
flower or vegetable beds it is advisable to
place a piece of galvanised iron upright to
keep the root-growth in check.
How to treat fowl manure before applying
it to the flower garden? —494o.
Gather the refuse and place it in shallow
boxes, cover it twice its depth with a layer
of soil, and leave to “ripen” for at least a
month or six weeks. Thoroughly mix soil
and manure together before applying to the
garden. To use as liquid manure, place it in
a bag and suspend it in a cask of water for
a few days; apply in a very weak form.
How to grow ferns from spores? —4946.
Cut off the fronds, on the backs of which
are browm seed, and place them in an
envelope. In about two weeks' the seed (in
the form of brown dust) will fall from the
fronds; scatter this over sandy soil in pots
or boxes and cover with glass. Keep the
soil damp until growth appears, after which
harden the seedlings and transplant when
they have made a few leaves.
What was the greatest banking failure in
history, and in what circumstances did it
occur? —4906.
So far as monetary records go, the failure
of the Iloyal Bank of France in 1720. John
Law, a Scottish financier, enlisted the sup-
port of the Duke of Orleans, the Regent, in
the flotation of Mississippi and East India
companies and the establishment of a bank,
promising that the profits would wipe oft the
national debt. Law was made comptroller-
general of the French finances. Over
£100,000,000 was invested in the Mississippi
co. alone. Shares in the bank at one stage
were sold at 20 times their face value. The
trading companies made losses, and the crash
came when Law’s bank suspended payment.
(1) What caused the Franco-Prussian war
of 1870? (2) How long did it last? (8)
Wliat did it cost France? (4) How much
did France pay to Germany, and how long
did it take to complete payment? —49l2.
(1) France was alarmed at the increased
power of Prussia through victories over Den-
mark and Austria. The nomination of a
Hohenzollern to fhe Spanish throne brought
matters to a head. The nomination was
withdrawn owing to French protests and
British intervention, but France asked for
guarantees from Prussia against a repetition
of such action. These were not given and
France declared war. By doctoring a tele-
gram Bismarck made it appear that request
and refusal had been expressed more
abruptly than was actually the case. (2)
July 15, 1870, to February 16, 1871. (3)
The cost was stated in 1875 to have been
£395,400,000. Arising out of the war the
French national debt increased from
£460,500,000t0£748,700,000. (4) £200,000,000.
Last instalment was paid September 5, 1873.
On what principle does a water bellows
work, and for what is it used? —4873.
It is a hydraulic device used for supply-
ing air to furnaces, etc. It has valves open-
ing in opposite directions, and is placed
mouth downward in the water. As it is
raised air is sucked in through the valve
opening inwards, and when it is lowered
the air is forced out through the valve open-
ing outwards. Water bellows are generally
made up with two barrels, so that one is
sucking in whilst the other is delivering air.
(1) What are the conditions of the Rose
Mary Craw shay prize? (2) Of the II au-
thor nden literary prizes? —49ls.
(1) Worth £lOO. it is awarded annually to
“a woman of any nationality who, in the judg-
ment of the Council of the British Academy,
has written or published within three calen-
dar years next preceding the date of the
award an historical or critical work of
sufficient value on any .subject connected
with English literature, preference being
given to a work regarding Byron, Shelley
or Keats.” If in the year two works of
exceptional merit are deemed worthy of a
prize, a second prize not exceeding £6O
may be awarded. (2) £lOO is annually
awarded to the author of what, in the opinion
of the committee, is the best bit of imagi-
native work in prose or verse published
during the preceding 12 months by a British
author under 41.
Waterproof paint for brickwork? —47so.
Boiled linseed oil with a drier and a small
quantity of raw oil and turps are ordinarily
used. ’ The wall must be perfectly dry.
Several special waterproofing preparations
are manufactured.
Brief Answers.
F.W.R. and J.G.S.: N.S.W. law won’t
allow us to tell. ...W.L.P.: There is a chapter cn
the subject in “The Fanners’ Handbook”... .E.J.H.:
Can’t say what’s wrong- without an examination.
Consult a vet W. J.N.: Goldfish and the equip-
ment necessary for their maintenance are obtainable
from Eastway Bros., 387 George-street; Farmer and
Co., George-street; and H. Kuwahata, 183 George-
street —all Sydney. Tropical aquarium fishes are
not stocked by dealers. Fanciers arrange for supplies
to be brought front Asia by officers of boats trading
there. .. .P.H.M.: Many have been prospecting in the
Northern Territory, but no finds of importance have
been reported. Tanatni, Pine Creek and Alice
Springs are districts which have received most
attention. .. .R.N.M.: Copy of regulations govern-
ing admission to Woolwich and Sandhurst may
be seen at Bulletin office... .N.N.: Dry car-
bide refuse can be used in place of lime
for farm and orchard. .. .M.J.W.: The supply
of tkachers in Queensland is adequate, the needs of
the Education Department being satisfied by the
Brisbane Teachers’ Training College. Write depart-
ment for scholarship conditions... .U.M.L.: See W.
W. House Ball’s “Mathematical Recreations and
Amusements”.... E.F. B.: Broomham Bros., High-
street, Willoughby, N.S.W P.M.S.: There is no
State award in force covering employees on N.S.W.
stations, These employees were removed from the
scope of tlie Industrial Arbitration Act in Dec., 1929.
H.W.Y.: You should lodge a return of income
for the year ended June 30, 1931. If you have
been assessed for Unemployment Relief Tax on
income from which such tax has already been
deducted, you should inform the Taxation Depart-
ment A.F.N.: J. Brush, 371 George-street, Sydney.
. ...L.W.: “Gilding, Silvering and Bronzing,” by
E. B. Jones (25.), Dymocks, Sydney... .J. OB.:
Dummy, if he has not looked at any of the other
hands, has the privilege of asking the declarer if
he has a card in a suit he renounces. .. .G.F.: (1)
Nothing wrong if both ball and lockman are out
of the scrum when the ball is played. (2) N 0....
A.X.L.: (1) Usually the rule should be applied to
infringements by the defending side; the non-
offending side should gain the advantage. (2) No.
. ...E.J.C.: The debts of a deceased person are paid
out of any estate he may own at death. If he dies
intestate leaving neither parents, widow nor children,
his brothers are the next of kin and would divide
the estate equally between them... .W.P.M.M.; It js
not imperative for you to sign, but if the bank
makes it a condition of endorsing the share-farming
agreement it might be wise to do 50....G.8.:
Inform the Taxation Department and ask for an
adjustment... .F.T.: If your arms are resting on a
cold surface continuously neuritis or myositis might
be caused. Rheumatism is a different matter. It
is unlikely that the removal of your coat on a
summer day would hurt, so long as you weren’t ill
a violent draught.... J .A.; Cure of fiat feet is a
matter of special footwear. Consult an orthopaedic
specialist. .. .11.R.8.: The specific gravity of ice is
0.92; of milk, 1.03... .R. 11.: Write Dept, of Trans-
port, Canberra.... B.: The treaty of Frankfort
stipulated that France must pay Germany
£200,000,000 indemnity. Within three years of the
signing of the treaty France had paid in fu11....
0.M.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) There were a few mild
outbreaks. .. .H.11.R.8.: Oil produced from such a
source would be unsuitable as a lubricant... .
W.H.G.: You must acquire a dealer’s license before
you can purchase leaf from a grower. Excise duty
at the rate of 2s. 4d. per pound is payable. Names
of growers can be got from L. H. Sambell, secretary,
Tobacco Growers’ Association, Beechworth (Vic.)....
R. 8.: Violets most largely grown for the florist trade
in Sydney are the Princess of Wales and California,
the latter being a darker color. Florists pay from
2s. to 3s. per dozen bunches of about 50 blooms. ...
R.C.: The Service Department does not criticise
literary contributions. See “Answers to Correspon-
dents” column... .J.S.: Get in touch with R. J.
Murphy, Q’land Sandalwood Syndicate, Ilughenden,
L.J.M.: N.S.W. Bookstall Co H.J.: You
should get £4 17s. 9d W. 8.5.: A bushel
of dry maize weighs 561 b. ; wheat, 601 b. ;
barley, 501 b.; oats, 401 b.; bran and pollard,
201 b F.C.: Wash the stained linoleum with
petrol, kerosene or pure turpentine, dry with a
clean cloth, and polish with a mixture of shredded
beeswax and turpentine. If the stains have pene-
trated the fabric it may not be possible to remove
them entirely... .R.H.: Rates vary. Write to the
advertisibg managers of the journals. .. .L.M.: The
Roman goddess of chance or fortune was Fortuha ;
in Greek mythology, Tyche. . . .H.W.Y.: Write N.S.W.
Govt. Printer, Sydney, for the Impounding Act, Is.
. ...C.H.: (1) A reliable second-hand typewriter will
cost £7 or £B. (2) Get a friend in town to test
it for you. (3) You can teach yourself.... J. 11. T.:
Your neighbor should not have diverted the water
on to your ground nor interfered with the bank,
assuming it does not check the natural flow. Before
taking action have an inspection made by an
engineer.... J-F-: B has full power 'to con-
stitute his wife his sole beneficiary or to dispose of
his property in any other way he thinks fit....
A.S.D.: (1) Yes. The Court, also, may readjust the
amount of instalments and postpone payment. (2)
Govt. Printer, Bent-street, Sydney ; 9d. plus postage.
8.M.8.; It is by Bertha Clay. Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, could obtain it for you, 2s. 6d.
. ...8.H.: (1) Jack London died at Glen Ellen,
California (U.S.A.), on November 22, 1916, aged 40.
(2) Write to his London publisher, Herbert Jenkins,
3 York-street, St. James’s, S.W.I. .. .E.C.; (1) Right
to sell or foreclose is suspended under N.S.W. Mora-
torium Act unless under exceptional circumstances.
Interest must be paid. (2) No, the mortgage is
still in existence.. . .0.M.: Cyclone warnings are
broadcast from 4QG, Brisbane. They are also
telegraphed to radio stations at Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island and
Darwin for transmission to ships at sea... .W.S.;
Prince Carol of Roumania renounced his right of
succession to the throne in December, 1925. The
following month his son, Prince Mihai, was declared
heir to the throne by Act of Parliament. On June 7,
1930, Prince Carol returned to Roumania and was
proclaimed King by Parliament. .. .Anxious: (1) The
Master in Lunacy lias a claim on any estate of the
patient applicable to liis maintenance. (2) No. (3)
The fact that he recovers and leaves the asylum
does not affect the Master’s claim for maintenance.
R.G.: (1) If application for a foreign patent is
made within 12 months of the date of the Aus-
tralian application, priority is given over applicants
of later date by all countries subscribing to the
International Patents Convention. (2) £9O to £lOO.
. ...S.P.: You have no claim against the
father. If the son is employed by the father and
in receipt of wages, you can garnishee over £2....
D.J.F.: You have no claim against the men who
took over the property. They were not parties to
the agreement. ..-J.T.S.: The Act defines “The Court”
to mean “a district court, or a court of petty sessions
hoi den before a stipendiary or police magistrate.”
There is no limitation of jurisdiction to breaches of
the Act committed in the district where the Court
sits F.W.C.; If the payment is secured by mort-
gage, the transaction comes under the N.S.W.
Moratorium Act. No notice is required, but inteicst
must be paid. .. . (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J.J.HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-,
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend Peggy, is rescued
from a seemingly inevitable coach
crash by Ken Craig. Margaret falls
under the spell of Craig’s roinan-
tie personality, though she resents the
fact that he is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. He goes away to help a
queer character, Larry Nolan, with
his horses, and before he returns
to Corella, Larry gives him a
magnificent black, which he calls
Eaglehawk, and the popular opinion
regarding which is that Larry must
have pinched it as a foal. Ken takes
Eaglehawk with him when he goes out
to take charge of the loork at Cattle
Camp, where he is badly injured in
saving one of his men from being
g< red by a bull. Margaret nurses
him, and rejects a somewhat offhand
proposal. Station life is suddenly
disturbed by the arrival of Mr. Borth-
wick, sent, up by the city managers on
a visit, of inspection. Borthwick has
a sinister understanding with the
station book-keeper, Heath, and to him
intimates prospective changes. He
makes Ken a big offer for Eaglehawk
and is refused. He determines that he
'will get the horse somehow. Soon
after Ken is doped in a hotel at
Carinda and is scorned as a drunk
by Margaret. Recovered, he rides
away to where he had left the horses,
but they have vanished. Larry finds
him on the point of collapse, but him-
self continues the tracking, recovers
the horses and leaves one of the thieves
with a smashed head. Ken has a letter
of apology from Margaret, she having
been called away owing to the illness
of her father. At the same time
Donaldson is sacked by Borthwick, and
Heath put in charge of the station.
CHAPTER XVIII ( Continued ).
CIRCLING to avoid the station build-
ings, Ken rode straight to the home-
stead. Someone had noticed the
approach of the black horse, and as he
stepped on the verandah of unforgettable
memories, Peggy came forward with out-
stretched hand and a welcoming smile.
“Hullo, Ken! You’re early!”
He stood awkwardly holding the girl’s
hand.
“I got an early start. I’m sorry—about
the news.”
The girl nodded mutely. “It is hard luck.
I’ll hate leaving Corella—and all you
people. But it’s harder for dad. It isn’t
the actual leaving—he’s old enough to
retire. It’s the rotten way they did it.”
“Who bought the place?”
“That Mr. Borthwick who was here. I
never trusted him from the first moment I
saw him, yet the news was a shock, all the
same.”
“When are you going?”
“Not for a week or two. Dad has handed
over the management to Mr. Heath.” She
made a slight grimace. “But we’ve been
here so long that it takes time to pull up
all the roots.”
Ken nodded sympathy, but his eyes were
focussed on the girl’s hand where it rested
on the back of a chair.
Suddenly conscious of his gaze, Peggy
blushed furiously and retreated a step. Ken
followed with outstretched hand. At the
astonished look on his face the girl laughed
happily, and surrendered the hand with the
half-circle of diamonds on the third finger.
“There you are, Mr. Sharp-eyes! Have
a good look!”
“Jim Armstrong?”
Peggy nodded happily.
“Congratulations, Peggy! It’s a bit of
a surprise—in a way. But I’m glad. And
I reckon Jim’s the luckiest man in the
world.”
“Ken, you’re a darling!” A pair of soft
arms wrapped themselves round his neck
and dragged the bewildered head down to
the level of her soft, warm lips. Then she
was gone.
The interview between Tom Donaldson
and his head stockman was notable for the
things left unsaid. Ken found the big man
changed. His faith in men had received a
shock. His sense of fair dealing had been
attacked and he had not yet recovered. But
he made no reproaches.
“It’s his idea of business, Ken. And.
after all, he holds the cheque-book, and
pays only for what he wants.”
On the store verandah he met Mr. Heath,
sallow, moist with perspiration, clinging still
to collar and- tie. His tone towards the
head stockman was affable, but held a ring
of ill-concealed patronage.
Ken followed him silently into the dim,
stuffy office which simmered like an oven.
“Sit down, Craig! Did—er—Rhodes give
you my message?”
Ken glanced sharply across, then choked
back the reply that had risen to his lips.
No good getting wild—yet.
“Dusty gave me a lot of messages,” he
announced evenly. “So I came in to see
what all the fuss was about.”
“You have seen Mr. Donaldson?”
Ken nodded and blew a cloud of smoke
at the buzzing flies.
“Well, the position is that Corella has
changed hands. The new owner is Mr.
Borthwick. You remember him? The
present situation is rather awkward, but of
course we don’t know Mr. Borthwick’s
views, and all I can do is to carry out his
orders. He has handed the management to
me. My sympathy is with Mr. Donaldson,
but at the same time I appreciate the pro-
motion and will do everything possible to
carry out Mr. Borthwick’s wishes.”
“Then he has taken delivery already?”
Ken queried.
“Yes! Rather unusual, I’ll admit, but
Mr. Borthwick is a keen business man. He
must have foreseen the rise in cattle and has
taken the stock at book numbers. Now
as to the personal side of things.” He
cleared his throat nervously, and glanced at
a calendar on the wall. Ken’s level gaze
neveV left the sallow face. “Mr. Borth-
wick’s ideas are—perhaps more modern than
those of the late owners, and there may be
some changes. In some ways I intend to —
er—effect small economies. For instance, I
do not believe in the stockmen hanging
about the station for a week at a time,
doing nothing but eat and sleep!”
Ken’s eyebrows rose, but his voice be-
trayed no trace of his emotions. “Don’t,
you reckon that a man is entitled to one
day a week to himself?”
“Why, certainly, but”
“And if a camp is out mustering for a
solid six weeks, going all the time till they
forget even what month it is, don’t you
reckon they should get their lost Sundays
when the rush is,over?”
“Why, yes; but there seems to be a
great deal of laxity. I’m sure they have
more days off than they ever work.”
“Well, you’ve got to consider the horses.
If there’s not much doing, there’s no sense
in tiring horses because it doesn’t look good
to have a man spelling”
“We’ll leave that for the present,” Heath
interposed hurriedly. He looked at Ken,
then as quickly shifted his gaze to the fly-
spotted calendar.
“Mr. Borthwick is of the opinion that
this property ought to carry more stock than
it does at present. Naturally, that'means
more work—more responsibility.”
Ken was experiencing a growing dislike
for the man across the desk, but waited
patiently.
“I have submitted a plan to Mr. Borth-
wick, and I am fairly certain he will fall in
with it. It entails some changes which,
however, will be—er to our mutual benefit.
In short, I mean to do away w r ith the two
mustering camps—to make one large camp
do all the work, and avoid overlapping and
other expenses. This will mean a rise in
status, in responsibility, and, I may add,
in salary, for the head stockman. Mr.
Borthwick was favorably impressed with
your capabilities on his visit, and I think,
if you accept my offer of the position of
head stockman, he will concur. What do
you say?”
He turned to the silent figure opposite
without noticing the hand opening and
clenching on the chair arm. The dim light
hid the set of the jaw muscles, but the
sharp, spasmodic puffs of smoke should
have been warning enough.
Then Ken looked up with a steely
deliberation.
“Mr. Heath, why did you ask me to drink
with Holland in Carinda?”
Heath’s chair grated harshly as the man
threw himself back at the unexpected ques-
tion. He was taken off his guard and showed
it plainly.
“What has that to do with this matter,
Mr. Craig? Nothing, I assure you! Now,
be reasonable! I never set eyes on him
till that day, and he’s dead now, so we
won’t discuss him.”
“Hmm! Supposing I took this big head
stockman job—what’s going to happen to
Alan Gordon?”
“Well—er—you must admit he’s an old
man.”
“Yes! And he has forgotten more about
cattle and about this country than you and
I ever knew.”
“Gordon could stay on, but there will be
only one head stockman in future.”
Ken pushed his chair back sharply, and
rose, looking grimly down at the, pale eyes
behind the gold-rimmed glasses.
“Look here, Mr. Heath! You can do with
that head stockman job what Dusty told
you to do with his yesterday.”
Heath half-rose from his chair in alarm,
one hand outstretched as if to fend off an
attack, but the level, incisive voice went
on:
“If you go on the way you’ve started
you won’t have a decent stockman on the
place in a month. You’ve lost the best one
already, and I’m going with him.”
“But wait a minute, Mr. Craig, surely”—
“Sit down and listen! You have taken
the job of a better cattleman than you
could ever hope to be, and you’ll need a
damn good man to help you out and to
take the blame for the mess you’re going
to make of it. You want to put out the
most capable man, and the decentest man,
God ever put breath into because of his
age. God help you and your economies!
Yon can give me my cheque right away!”
He turned back from the door. Heath
paled visibly at the remembrance of a
similar movement made by Mr. Borthwick
once before. “And if I ever find that you
had anything to do with getting me doped
in Carinda, I’ll come back and break your
miserable damned neck.”
The door slammed viciously, and Mr.
Heath sank weakly into a chair, mechani-
cally mopping the face which, in spite of
the baking heat, felt strangely chill.
The two men—one old and bent, the
other young and full of the easy grace of
perfect health—faced one another as they
squatted on their heels, blackfellow fashion,
across the dying embers of a small fire.
Night had fallen, and the stars blazed with
a vital fire out of the wonderful, fathom-
less blue of the moonless sky.
Larry Nolan’s curt, rasping voice sounded
edgier than usual, a sure sign of the reverse
state of his feelings.
“So ye think ye’re clearin’ out because ye
don’t happen to like yer new boss?”
The young man puffed a stream of smoke
at the mosquitoes and smiled to himself.
“An’ all the time ye’re breakin yer neck
to git after a bit of a girl!”
Ken looked up suddenly, then checked
himself and replaced the pipe in the corner
of his mouth.
“Why don’t you admit it?” jeered the
rasping voice.
“If I thought there was any chance for
me there I would admitl it! Yes, I would
sit on top of the Red Ridge and shout it!
But it’s no good, Larry—she only wants me
as a friend.”
The harsh cackle left the younger man
unmoved.
“Anyhow, what have, I to offer her? A
few horses and a 10-by-8 tent! Man, she’s
been used to the best of everything all her
life. I only found out from Peggy Donald-
son the other day. Her old man owns a
big place in the Riverina. What would
she want with a common stockman who
couldn’t keep her in hankies?”
“All the same, ye’re glad to be goin’!”
“I am and I’m not. The old mob is
breaking up. The boss is going. Dusty’s
going droving with a mob from Linton.
When I pulled out that damned young fool
Scotty goes spliteye for his cheque, so he
and I are joining Bill Scanlan’s mob to-
morrow—l2so mixed cows and bullocks,
rushing every night till they’re scared to
light a fire. Packhorse plant, and he can’t
get a cook to stop. Scotty’ll be as poor as
a blackfellow’s dog before we get through
with them, and we’ll be three months on
the road.”
“What.about Alan Gordon? Is he joinin’
the rats?”
“I don’t think he’ll stay long, but he
won’t leave this part of the country. He
to die in the gidya.”
“Huh! Why don’t he live with the
blacks?”
“I’m sorry for the Corella cattle. They’re
in for a bad time with this Heath and his
economies. He’ll try to stick another ten
theusand head of cows on the relief
country, then when a dry spell comes along,
the whole show goes up the spout. Unless”
—he threw a sly glance at the old man—•
“unless he drives them on to your country.”
“Will he!” Nolan jumped to his feet
and stamped fiercely up and down. “Let
him drive his cattle up here and see what
happens! ”
In the distance a horse whinnied, and
Ken’s head went back as he listened. There
was a pause, then he spoke in a low voice:
“That’s why I don’t want to leave, Larry.
That horse means more to me than any-
thing else in the world—now r . I would
like to take him with me, but you know
what it would mean. I would have to sit
up all night with a gun among some of
these fellows down south. But I’ll be back
in six months, and I’m coming straight
here.”
The old man kicked a piece of wood on
the fire and turned gruffly away.
. “I’m goin’ to turn in—see you in the
morning.”
But all that Ken found in the morning
was a dirty envelope stuck in his bridle.
He pulled it out and read with difficulty
the name of a firm of Sydney solicitors, and
underneath:
“When you do yer check, they will give
you yer fare back.”
The big, loose-limbed giant smoothed out
the cheque-book against the side of a pack-
saddle for the twentieth time, and pushed
the penholder perplexedly through the
bushy mop of yellow hair. For fourteen
weeks he had battled against lack of grass
and water and the vagaries of twelve hun-
dred bullocks, but he felt he would tackle
another dry stage if he could only get out
of his present role. The resentful glare
lifted from the pen.
“What’s the date, Ken?”
“Dunno, Bill. ’Struth, I’ll be glad when
I get this beard off.”
Ensued another pause. Bill inked the
pen for the thirtieth time, flourished it in
a businesslike manner—and again it paused.
“Hey, Ken!”
“Yeh?”
“Er—any idea what month it is?”
“Not too sure. Where’s Scotty? He’s
always writing letters.”
“Aw—down at the creek, polishin’ his
teeth.”
“Any’ow, it’s 19 Look, what the hell
year is it?”
“Fourteen, I think. Gall it August, and
you’ll be somewhere near the mark. We’ll
get the papers in Windorah —if I ever get
this blasted wool off... .but that’s no good
if you’re going north What are you
laughing at?”
Scotty subsided on a rumpled pile of
blankets. “Ye were bad enough with a
three-months’ beard, but wi’ only half o’
it—man, ye look like Daniel cornin’ oot o’
the lions’ den!”
“Hey, Scotty!” The deep voice sounded
diffident —uneasy. “What’s—l mean—how
do you spell your name?”
“With a C, Bill.”
“Ye-es, but”
“C-a-m-e-r-o-n!”
“Cameron, eh? I’ll make this out S.
Cameron, then!”
“S?” Scotty’s freckled face registered
perplexed wonder; then he grinned broadly.
“Make it ‘I. Cameron,’ Bill.”
“I? What’s your name? Isaac?”
“No! lan.”
“Huh! 1 would spell that with an E
meself! Have a look at that damper, will
you?”
The two riders topped a low, red sand-
hill and found Windorah suddenly at their
feet. The pack-horses jingled noisily past
the few scattered dwellings, then slowly
retraced their steps to join the saddle-
horses under the cool, green shade of the
pepper-trees.
Scotty, leaning confidentially across the
bar, addressed the benevolent, white-bearded
individual in the fresh, clean shirt: “I want
a prescription for a thirst—six months’
long and a sandhill wide.”
The patriarch smiled knowingly, and
acted on the principle that he gives twice
who gives quickly.
After the thn'd round the old man paused
from his labors to query:
“Travelling far?”
Ken nodded casually. “How’s the grass
in vour paddock?”
“Plenty!”
“Good!”
“We’ll try sleeping in a real bed. Put a
couple of bindy-eyes in Scotty’s or he won’t
sleep!”
“Gosh! Doesn’t it seem funny to get your
legs under a table again, with a real table-
cloth, too—and a waitress!”
Scotty checked his enthusiastic outburst
as a stranger seated himself at the end of
the table and exchanged “Good days” with
them. The newcomer wore a collar and
tie and a well-worn tailored suit.
Scotty’s thoughts flew to Corella and Mr.
Heath, but this chap had a twinkle in his
eyes that Heath never attained to. He
looked like the local postmaster or school-
master.
“Just arrived in town?” the newcomer
observed facetiously.
Both men nodded gravely. Windorah’s
half-dozen buildings comprised the biggest
town they had passed since Boulia.
“From Charleville way—or the Cooper?
hazarded the stranger.
“Well, neither,” volunteered Scotty.
“We delivered a mob of Territory cattle
down the Cooper a couple of weeks ago."
“Making for the Big Smoke? I don’t sup-
pose you’ve heard much news, then?”
“No! Haven’t seen a newspaper for three
months!”
“Do you mean that?”
Scotty looked distinctly offended, but the
newcomer went on:
“Haven’t you heard any news about the
war?”
“War? What war?”
“ The war! England and France and
Russia against Germany and Austria.
Why, they’ve been fighting for over a
month.”
Scotty glanced at Ken, whose face ex-
pressed absolutely nothing, and took his cue
therefrom. He prompted the stranger with
an incredulous “Ye-es?” and they continued
their meal to the accompaniment of a
jumble of strange names, even more
strangely pronounced—Mons, the Marne.
French, Kitchener, Joffre.
Ken filled his pipe slowly and rose from
the table, followed by Scotty, with a “See
you later!”
As they passed through the doorway
Scotty glanced contemptuously over his
shoulder: “We may be from the Bush,
but he made that yam a bit too solid.
Ken surveyed his companion for a
moment. Elis eyes had that puckered, hall-
closed expression that comes to those who
spend their days in the blinding glare oi
the plains, but a corner of his mouth
crinkled amusedly.


■■nil*
mm
WA
m
*
m
II •», Vi
.
r
wm
m
*
Wwi »
.
Mx,
%
Coid hasno terrors for the car
which always mns on CO R
Above the snow line—or below —C.O.R users are the
envy of other motorists. For they alone enjoy the
instant start —plus power for the heavy mountain grades.
e
◄
rmSaa&Bßj^®mvTl
BRITISH MOTOR SPIRIT N2I
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.) 317 Pitt St., Svdnev.
Agents for Country Districts, ------ DALGETY & CO. LIMITED.
“You might- find some papers lying
round,” he observed slowly. “These fellows
have a big lead on us. Anyhow, I’m going
to have a camp. Give me a shout if the
cattle rush.”
Half an hour later an excited Scotty
burst into his room. His hands grasped a
crumpled bundle of newspapers. His vivid,
red hair bristled with excitement, and his
eyes stuck like poached eggs out of the
flushed, freckled face.
“Ken! It’s true—what that chap said.
There is a war on. Ken! D’ye hear me?”
The languid figure on the bed never
stirred. A sleepy voice murmured “Ye-es.”
“The Kaiser started it, and the German
Army is right through Belgium an’ France
—nearly at Paris —an’ if they get there
they’ll go for London next. Why, they
might be there now! Ken! Don’t ye hear
■met”
The recumbent figure stretched luxuriously
and yawned. “I reckon everybody in this
pub must know about that war now.”
He pulled a corner of the mosquito-net
over his face. “Come back in about an
hour and tell us who won? You can’t have
read all the papers!”
Scotty’s arms dropped to his side and the
big mouth sagged; every freckle on liis
face seemed to express complete disappoint-
ment.
There was a pause; then he sat heavily on
the bed, and his voice was almost pathetic.
“Ken, I’m not kidding—it’s dinkum!”
The head lifted from the pillow, and a
pair of grey eyes stared fixedly at the
youth.
“All right, Scotty! I believe you. But
even if there is a war, what difference does
it make to us?” He raised himself on one
elbow and proceeded in a quiet, kindly
drawl: “If all these armies pile on to one
another, this war can’t last long. The
chances are it’s all over now. Anyhow, it’s
happening 12,000 miles away, and we’re well
out of it. I don’t know the Kaiser, but
I’ve met some pretty decent Germans.
Remember old Karl Muller that put up
the Corella bullock paddock? Do you
think that if any kaiser or king or anyone
else handed me a gun and pointed to
Karl and said, ‘There’s a German. Put a
bullet in his guts,’ that I would do it? Not
on your life! We’ve got into the habit of
doing our own thinking. Men used to
swallow that kidstakes about dying for
their country, and go round bashing some
other poor fool in the dial with a meat-
axe so that their particular duke or king
could sit back when it was all over and
own a stack of land that he had no right
to, or play hell with the other fellow’s
women! ”
“That’s just it,” Scotty interposed. “That’s
what these rotten Germans are doing to the
women in Belgium now. They’re shooting
defenceless old men and women —and if
they do it in Belgium, what’ll they do in
England—and in Scotland. It’s all right
for you, lying here, but my people are
over there.” He started to his feet, his
voice hoarse with passion. “By God, if any
of the rotten swine touch my sister, I’ll
murder every German I meet for the rest
of my life!”'
Ken sat up quickly and swung his feet
to the floor.
“I’m sorry, Scotty, I forgot about your
people. Anyhow, it’s no good worrying in
the meantime. Go out and get the latest
news, and we’ll staid; first thing in the morn-
ing. We’ll make for Charleville—that’s
about a week’s trip from here; this
country’s all sand and rabbit-holes, and
the mulgas too thick for a dog to bark in.
Anyhow, when we hit the railway we’ll
know more about things. Cripes, I’ll shy
and go bush when I see that train!”
CHAPTER XIX.
The trim little maid appeared at the
open doorway and surveyed the tall man
in the obviously brand-new outfit—wide
grey hat, tan shoes and the grey suit that
seemed dangerously tight. With a glance
at the deeply-tanned face she murmured
to herself, “Another of ’em!” then aloud:
“Yes, Mr. Donaldson lives here, but he’s
in town this morning.”
Miss Donaldson? She’s out, but she
ought to be back any time now. Are you
a friend? Oh, from Corella. What name
(fid you say? Well, would you care to
come inside and wait a while, Mr. Craig?
This way, please.”
The house was evidently a temporary
abiding-place, and few familiar objects from
the Corella home were visible. Tired of
sitting, Ken moved towards the open win-
dows, running an impatient finger between
his neck and the irksome collar.
Below the house the ground fell rapidly
to meet the tongue of shimmering blue
water of Mosman Bay. On the left
jutted the steep streets and peaceful, dig-
nified houses of Mosman. To the right
Cremorne Point swept out and curled round
blocking the view citywards. Beyond lay
the harbor with the sun glinting on the
little waves.
A fat ferryboat waddled up the bay, its
wash spreading fan-wise behind. Farther
out a Manly ferry cut across and passed a
small, insignificant-looking coaster. Be-
yond them again rose the green lawns and
red-roofed, white and. grey homes of Syd-
ney’s Four Hundred.
A small, well-kept garden lay in front of
the window, and he found himself wonder-
ing how Tom Donaldson felt in these
cramped surroundings after a lifetime in,
the wide, untrammelled spaces of the Bush,
Although the view from the windows was
spacious and beautiful, there was always
the feeling of congestion, of having one’s
privacy overlooked. Even the way in
which the garden was laid out was a re-
Hinder of the lack of space the scale o,
things was cramped accordingly. Over a
fJ c e f f ?, nC€ j trailed a beautiful wistaria m
hcMlgioryof its spring blossom, and a
poignant shaft struck deep in the mans
remembrance. Why did he always connect
Margaret with wistaria? He had never
seen the two together—it was far too hot
and dry in the Territory for wistaria to
exist. It might be the color—that cool,
fresh shade of mauve that suited Margaret
so well.
Where was she now? Peggy would be
sure to know, and this time there was going
to be an end to all this mystery. He real-
Ned that, to him, life and Margaret were
synonymous. Without her it was a mere
dry husk—a _day-to-day shallow existence,
With her at his side he felt he could laugh
at the obstacles of life. Nothing could stop
him!
Slow footsteps crunching on the gravel
outside caused a temporary cessation of
the building of his airy castle, and he .drew
back from the window. It didn’t sound
like Peggy—it was not Peggy.
A tall, slim girl had paused, wearily, on
the top step.
His heart stopped—then expanded till it
seemed to choke him. Margaret!
But not the Margaret astride
of Dawn! Not the quiet, capable nurse
who had cheerfully bullied him! This was
the old Margaret as he had first seen her
in the wrecked coach in the ranges. The
old sinister influence was at work again.
The man stepped quietly to the door of
the room, then stopped. She stood in the
hall, quiet unconscious of his presence. Her
hat dangled from one hand. The fingers of
the other ran through the beautiful brown
hair, pushing it back from the forehead.
Then she looked up
Their eyes met. A hand flew to her
throat as if to still the heart that threat-
ened to choke her. She felt rather than
saw the tall figure with outstretched arms
move steadily towards her. The hunted,
tired expression of the eyes was over-
whelmed by a wondrous flood of light, and
she buried her face against the strong
shoulder while two arms closed round her
and held her fast.
“Ken!”
A broken, incomprehensible murmur
emanated from the face buried in her brown
hair.
Shyly incredulous, she raised a flushed,
happy face. Their lips met for the first
time, and held—and the combined orches-
tras of all the planets played a. wild, tri-
umphant bacchanale in their ears.
Neither observed the little maid enter
and stop aghast, then withdraw discreetly
with bulging eyes.
Time and the outside world had ceased
to exist for them.
(To he continued next v:eek.)


AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia H'ouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
c&
<6^
X
Now in its 90th Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. M. S. Allan, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Paterson Street, National Bank Chambers, liembla Buildings,
Launceston. 271 Collins Street, Melbourne. Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Threatening Future of Australia.
Credit gone, forced loans soon, then
inflation—unless we employ the un-
employed. Nothing else can save us.
Read "The Barrier M iner” of last Saturday
This Broken Hill Daily Newspaper is read by
everybody in town and country west of the
Darling. The only daily found in all the
settlers’ homes.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For the second successive year the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase was won by an Adel-
aide-owned candidate. Strange to say, each
of these horses —Good Whisky and Accelera-
tion—was ridden by Howson, whose luck
this jumping season has been remarkable.
Howson lauded the Grand National Hurdle
on Cockcrow and finished third in the second
leg of the Flemington double on Bestman.
The Bestman crowd secured Bob Inkson
for the Green Seal gelding at Caulfield, leav-
ing Howson to search for a mount elsewhere.
He would have been a spectator but for a
last-moment decision to start Acceleration.
Acceleration is raced on lease by Mrs.
F. P. Chapman, winner of 150 prizes as a
show-ring rider in South Aus. With assist-
ance from her husband, she attended to the
bay stallion’s preparation, though J. Tie
appeared on the card as trainer to conform
with V.R.C. rules. Tie formed the impres-
sion that Acceleration lacked stamina, and
advised that he be withdrawn from the Si-
mile steeplechase. This recommendation
would have been acted upon but for the
intervention of a man who had got 50 to 1.
The inducements he offered were accepted,
with happy results. The £llOO stake
and other increments were like manna
from Heaven to Mrs. Chapman and
her husband, who had been in dire monetary
straits. Their circumstances had been com-
mon knowledge on the Caulfield tracks, and
one local trainer after another came up and
shook hands with the overjoyed couple after
the race.
On. the previous Saturday 33 to 1 was
obtained about the Australian Hurdle win-
ner, Cenliglit, who, like Acceleration, is
owned by a woman. Superstitious punt-
ers may have been influenced by this coin-
cidence, fox*, after being quoted at 33 to 1
on the course. Acceleration shortened to 16
Bert :"1 hope your nerves are
ALL RIGHT, GERT ?"
<j-ert,i “Nerves? I haven't anv...
what's that squeaking noise?”
Bert:“'Sounds like a mouse"
i n
to 1. The late rush for him was quite a
feature of the betting. People who profess
to know the racing game inside out regarded
money put on the son of Demolition as
thrown into the gutter, but they were con-
founded when he copied the example of Cen-
light and led practically all the way. Mat-
ters may have been simplified for Accelera-
tion through Olina, the favorite, having frac-
tured a bone in his off stifle. Opposition
was further weakened by Bang Bang com-
ing to grief and bringing down Welcome
Stranger. Kentle was hopelessly out of the
picture when he fell. The time was fast,
being only 2sec. outside the record, which
is shared by Roisel and Sir Alogy. H. E.
Connolly, who won the Arkaringa Hurdle
with Pitoota, deemed Olina to be a better
proposition in the big race. His neddy was
travelling splendidly when he stifled the
last fence in front of the stand and had to
be pulled up.
Holt saddled up the handsome Derby can-
didate High Brae for the first division of
the Chatsworth Plate, confined to thi*ee-year-
olds. He also was interested in Noblesse
(Spelthorne—Sue), a filly he i*aces in
conjunction with C. T. Godby, her trainer.
Noblesse started favorite, with Last Corn
and- High Brae next in request. Last Corn
scored brilliantly from Godby’s pair, Nob-
lesse and Glideaway. After showing up
boldly at the turn High Brae knocked up in
the straight. Last Corn is by Comus, half-
brother to the English Derby winner Papy-
rus. His sire was imported bv Godby: he
contributed to Spearfelt’s Melbourne Cup
success by clearing out from the field and
setting up such a long break that Pike had
to ruin Pantheon’s chance by chasing him
prematurely.
Rondalina, a filly by Beau Fils, carried
tlie.Phar Lap livery to victory in the second
division of the Chatsworth Plate, for which
Viol d'Amour was backed down to 6 to 4.
Viol d’Amour carries his head very high, and
is difficult to handle; but his owner-trainer,
Ned O’Dwyer, reckoned that Frank Demp-
sey, who rides with a long rein, would suit
him admirably. Spontoon, by Spearhead
from the dam of Shadow King, for whom
,T. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C. committee, gave
1600 guineas as a yearling, was next in
demand to Voil d’Amour. He is reputed to
be a champion in the making, but gave a
miserable display. Rondalina, an 8-to-l
chance, won just as easily as Last Corn. It
cost Harry Telford 160 guineas to acquire
her.
All Crimson, going out at 12 to 1 in a
field of six, ran away with the middle-dis-
tance Balaclava Stakes. Carrying 9st. 101 b.,
Second Wind was unbacked and ran last.
He had not raced since he won the Williams-
town Cup. All Crimson, who is nine years
old, wears well. He captured six events as
a juvenile in S.A., finished second in the
Derby there, and was narrowly vanquished
by The Night Patrol over a sprint course.
F. E. Shillabeer, contractor for tote instal-
lation at Flemington, appropriated the St.
Aubin Welter with Walter Scott, on whom
Scanlon rode a most effective finish.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
August Hurdle: Isocrates; next, Fir-
meroi.
August Handicap ; Amanthus ; next, Pure
Blend.
* * >:<
Three-year-old form thus far exhibited on
Sydney courses has been rather poor. There
was a six-furlong handicap for horses of the
Derby age at Moorefield on Saturday, and
it took the winner, Gold Digger (12 to 1),
lmin. 174 sec. to cover a distance traversed
by ordinary platers in both divisions of the
Flying Handicap in lmin. 16sec. The time
test is not always trustworthy, nor is the
Moorefield track fast; still, it was firm, and
the 16 starters in Gold Divo-er’s race went
as hard as they could from the start. When
Chatham, Johnny Jason and other likely
sorts begin racing a different tale may be
told. In appearance and style of galloping
Chatham recalls his sire, and this Page will
be greatly riiistaken if he does not" prove
himself a worthy son of Windbag and grand-
son of Magpie this year.
Style (4 to 1), a mare who came over
from the pony courses last season, cap-
tured the first division of the Flying Handi-
cap with a dashing run. Rather too much bi
use was made of Labor Girl 1 (4 to 1), who
led into the straight and looked like win-
ning till Cook dx*ove Style along—he had
nursed her nicely for the last run. Chemosh
(3 to 1) in the second division returned the
Walker stable a bit of the money lost on him
last season, but his backers had anxious
moments in the straight, for Chai*alf (8 to
1), the seeond horse, took a lot of shaking
off. Mr. Whiz, unbacked and running out
of his distance, did good work, which was
noted.
• • • •
Ring Boy (4 to 1) and Black Douglas
(3 to 1), two of the biggest horses in training,
fought out the finish of the Moorefield Handi-
cap. The contrast between them and the
tiny Bosmina, who headed the unplaced divi-
sion,. was comic. The mare and Ring Boy
led into the straight, Black Douglas being
then fifth ; he made up so much ground in a
comparatively few strides that his name was
called as the likely winner, but Davidson
straightened up Ring Boy, who went away
again. The vetei*an O’Rourke ti*ains Ring
Boy, who has been a model of consistency
this wintex*. So has Don Moon, who ran
another third.
George Px*ice saddled up the winner of the
Rockdale Mile—Reasonable (4 to 1), a chest-
nut gelding by Treclare—Reason. He was
thought to be a bit above the ordinary, but
a moderate, Beau Dennis (10 to 1), gave him
a stone and looked to have him settled until
xyeight began to tell. Meadowdale, for whom
there was good backing, will improve on his
fourth place.
* * *
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Three-year-old Handicap : Chatham ; next,
Raniei*.
Flying Handicap: Ammon Ra; next,
Royal Tune.
Rosehill Handicap: Magdaff; next. Bos-
mina.
'Carlingford Mile: New King; next,
Meadowdale.
The A.J.C., having lost £26,300 on its 24
meetings in 1930-31, is making heavy cuts in
prize money. The list for the spring
meeting shows that added money will be only
£25,450, as compared with £41,000 for 1930.
The Derby, however, will be maintained at
the present figure of £BOOO, and the 25 events
for the four days will average over £IOOO
apiece in value.
* * * *
Maoriland racing is feeling the pinch of
hard times as is the case in Australia. Auck-
land Racing Club has finished its financial
year with a loss of £3OOO, the big spring
meeting suffering badly in consequence of
inclement weather. During the year £53,800
was distributed in prize money, but it is
intended to make considerable reductions in
this direction until matters brighten.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: Bob Skelton, who received
a six months' disqualification at the Ascot
(Sydney) pony meeting last Wednesday,
was apprenticed as a youth to a Brisbane
plumber, but forsook the soldering-iron to
following the racing game. Success came
his way when he bought a slippery steed
named Haco. With Haco and others he
jarred the Bananaland bagmen so badly that
they were relieved when he migrated to
India, where he set up as a trainer and
won for his patrons almost every race of
note in the Indian racing calendar. Skel-
ton duplicated his Indian successes on the
Sydney pony courses, and in his heyday
had no rival as a daring punter. At Rand-
wick one day he ran half a sovereign into
£6OOO,
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Although the opposition makes a lot of
difference, Wally Hancock (lOst. 61b.) was
in. wonderful fighting fettle at Leichhardt
when he met Wally Maher (lOst. llflb.)
His left hook laid the other Wally low in
seven rounds. Maher’s wild work worried
the ex-sailorman until one of Hancock’s left
swings landed on the other fellow’s face. The
former welterweight champion forged to the
front after this, and sent straight lefts to
the nose before his chin-cracking left hook
knocked Maher clean out.
* * *
“Mitt Shover”: Jack Dempsey has fol-
lowed the example of most of his pug pre-
decessors and is making an attempt to come
tek to the ring. It is not fame that has
forced him to this decision so much as
finance, for, though he probably won more
money than any other living boxer, there is
little of it left, much of it having been
dropped in fight-promoting. There is a
touch of irony in this, for John’s own terms
when he was in his prime were such
as to reduce more than one promoter to
blasphemy and bankruptcy. If he can pick
up his form, Dempsey intends to have a go
at champion Schmelling, but the odds don’t
favor him.
Footbrawl
The Rugby Union final between Eastern
Suburbs and Manly, at the Sydney Cricket
Ground, was one of the best exhibitions of
the game ever seen on the famous arena. The
Easterners got home after a tense and excit-
ing tussle by 16-9—3 tries, a penalty and a
field goal to 3 tries. The match drew 10,077
spectators, the largest seen at a Union club
game at headquarters since the war. East
got most of the ball, and had a definite
advantage for the first half. Scores were 7-0
at half-time. Manly then staged a great
rally, and the give-and-take play throughout
the period had the big crowd yelling with
excitement. East, however, regained the
initiative, and, aided by the rare defence of
Alec Ross, was leading 13-9 when a penalty
by the full-back in the last few minutes put
it out of danger. The Eastern forwards,
headed by Greatorex, were very nippy and
aggressive, and the backs, especially Cook on
the wing, lost few chances. The Manly van-
guard has been seen to better advantage, but
behind the pack Thicknesse and Miller more
than offset the Australian pair, Malcolm and
Primrose. This is East’s first win since
1921, when Manly, which won the following
year, was also the runner-up.
* * *
The Rugby League games in Sydney on
Saturday decided the four clubs for the semi-
final rounds. These are Eastern Suburbs,
(minor premiers), Western Suburbs, South
Sydney and St. George. South Sydney met
North at the latter’s oval, and won a not
very impressive game by 16-7—4 tries and
2 goals to a try and 2 goals. North Sydney
had a rare feast of penalty kicks, but the
usually accurate Carroll missed many
chances of adding to the score. At Pratten
Park, goals had much to do with Newtown’s
surprising win from the premiers, Western
Suburbs. Final scores were 36-13, Ellis con-
tributing IS of the winners’ points with 9
goals. St. George scraped through to the
final four by beating University 18-11, each
side scoring 3 tries. Here again the goal-
kicker won the day, Kadwell and Freestone
hoisting 5 for the Saints, while Uni. could
only contribute one. Eastern Suburbs had
a practice gallop against Balmain at the
Sports Ground, the tricolors putting up 44
points to 5. The winners scored 10 tries.
4 of them Joy centre Lynch, which with goals
brought his scoring total for the season to
99. Lynch and D. Brown kicked 4 and 3
goals respectively.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: It is good betting that the
Australian side about to invade Maoriland
will be more eagerly welcomed than any
visitors since Maui and his men first made
their landfall on the Shivery Isles. For two
years M.L. has been brooding over the triple
defeat of the All Blacks in 1929, a calamily
never before encountered at the boots of
any country. Most of the unfortunates who
composed that team were put to the sword,
in a football sense, after returning to their
native land, and an intensive campaign of
preparation with “revanche” as its slogan
was feverishly begun. The All Blacks arc
out to rehabilitate themselves by winning
the solitary Test against the visitors.
* * * *
“Gate”: For long Manly, with its con-
sistent support of the Rugby Union game,
to which it brings very satisfactory gates,
has been the envy of the Rugby League,
which has established itself in all football
districts but this one. In Manly, in addition
to the ozone given off by the ocean, there is
a tang of lilywliite amateurism which is
grateful to the nostrils of those who like
that sort of thing. The League has asked the
Manly Council to permit a League game on
the oval for the benefit of the local hospital.
That, of course, is so much eyewash, but
the League hopes that once having estab-
lished a precedent it will be able to bid
successfully next season for the lease of the
ground, for many years a Union stronghold.
é


Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
EMITE
GOOD LUBRICANT
As Necessary as Good Petrol
Because bearings must be properly lubricated to avoid friction.
Good lubricants contain no injurious acids. ALEMITE is the best
lubricant known to modern science. The use of the ALEMITE System
of Lubrication assures every vital part being properly lubricated.
ALEMITE is forced in under 3000 lbs. pressure. Dirt, sand, grit
are forced out at the same time Result perfectly clean,
lubricated bearings.
ALEMITE every 500 miles—insure your car against friction troubles.
ALEMITE CORPORATION « Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address s ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from, the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd. .
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN & CO (Pty), Ltd.
CORNELL LIMITED .
• • ■ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Brisbane
• • . 894 Hay Street, Perth
• 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
• . 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-10
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
Maoris cook
food in hot
streams!
■
New
Zealand
now on your way to
England . . . via the
Matson Line!
NOW, fast Matson Liners
serve you between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. And
you visit picturesque Auck-
land on your way to America
or England via this route. You
reach London in just 32 days!
Every third Tuesday at 2 p.m.
a Matson Liner leaves Sydney.
MAIL THIS COUPON
Please send me jree information
on a trip to Auckland □ Suva [T 1
Pago Pago □ Honolulu □ United
States □ England □
Mil
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Phone B 7981-3
m
mm
Footbrawl
“Richmond"’: Melbourne came close to
civil war over the disqualification of the
Carlton crack, Downs, until the end of 1932
on a charge of kicking an opponent. On
the night of the committee meeting which
considered the matter, a huge crowd assem-
bled at the League buildings. Extra police
took a hand, but the assembly got wrathful
at the delay in arriving at a verdict, and
had to be soothed with speeches by officials.
When the decision was announced there was
nearly a riot, the committee being roundly
hooted, while Downs was cheered to the echo
when he came out. Two thousand attended
a protest meeting at Carlton’s ground the
following day, and appointed a deputation
to arrange for the reopening of the case.
* * t- *
“Fitzcray” : The Hough case (B. 29/7/"31).
which has dangerously imperilled the entente
eordiale between the Victorian and West:-
ralian Football Leagues, has fizzled out, duty
taking the bone of contention back to his
native State after some months’ sojourn in
Melbourne, where football was denied him
by his hard-hearted compatriots in the West,
who refused to grant him a transfer to play
with South Melbourne. Hough seems to
have been badly treated, since liis employers
have vouched for it that his transfer to Mel-
bourne from Perth was in all essentials a
matter of the firm’s business, and had no
connection with football. It is rumored
that the young man will now go back to
tbunis, in which he represented Westralia
a couple of seasons ago.
* * * *
The Rugby Union team selected for
Maoriland, while not the best that could be
picked, is still a strong one, though one
would have liked to sec a bit more defence
provided for in the centres. N.S.W. has 14
men jn and Queensland nine, including six
forwards. Unfortunately Lindsay, that fine
winger from Toowoomba, broke bis leg in
the second inter-State match, or he would
have been certain of the trip. Two Vic-
torian players, Cowper and Bridle, a five-
eighth and a forward, have also deservedly
found places; they will be the first Vic-
torian reps, to accompany an Australian
overseas side. The forwards are a particu-
larly good lot. averaging 13.7, and extra
fast withal. There is a heavy programme of
nine games against the first-class provinces
and one Test. The tour opens against Otago
at Dunedin on August 22, and ends with a
game against Waikato on September 23. The
Test is at Auckland on September 12.
*• * * *
“Frat”: The Australian Rugby Union
team for Maoriland is remarkable in at least
one respect; it contains two brothers. Jim
and Phil Clark. Brothers frequently follow
each other in successive years in football and
cricket teams, but it is rare to find a pair
at once on a side, and that an international
one.' About the only other instance one can
recall in Australia is supplied by A. B. and
P. 11. Burge, who figured together on the
tour of the Australian team of 1908-09.
which played on the West Coast of America
and in Canada. In inter-State teams the
family party crops up more frequently. Three
Colton brothers turned out for Queensland
in 1899, and two O’Rourkes in 1892 and
1893. Arthur and Moil Austin also played
together more than once for the Queensland
teams of the ’nineties, so the habit seems
to have been quite catching among Banana-
landers.
$ * * *
“Centre Half”: The war between the two
divisions which are now attempting to con-
trol British Association football in N.S.W.
(B. 5/8/’3l) is increasing in intensity.
Briefly the “Soccer” game in the Ma State
lias split into sections, one of which recog-
nises payment to players (the League) and
the other affects an amateur attitude
(the Association). A Federal Association
body controls the game in Australia. It
is dispatching an Australian team to Java.
Many of the best players in N.S.W. belong
to the League. Some of these have been
chosen for the Association team to go on
tour, and have accepted in defiance of the
League’s objection. They have been notified
by that body that if they persist they will
be disqualified for life. Considering that
all the other States where Soccer is played
adhere _ to the Association, the N.S.W.
League's attitude seems flavored with Lang-
ism.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Negotiations for the visit
to Australia of a Japanese team are
still in progress. It was at first under-
stood that the Japs asked merely for
hotel and travelling expenses while in
Australia, which, of course, is all that
any amateur player can expect. The Aus-
tralian authorities have characteristically
side-stepped with an offer of half the profits,
with a guarantee of £7OO. Norman Brookes,
who is carrying on pourparlers with the
Nipponese, has cabled asking that the guar-
antee be jumped to £SOO. One bright sug-
gestion in a Sydney daily paper is that the
expense might be lessened if the Japanese
community in Australia helped by housing
their visiting compatriots.
* * sjs
“Let”: The Mid-Pacific tennis tourney
staged by the American L.T.A. at Honolulu
last season was so successful that it is to be
repeated next year. The Australian authori-
ties have been notified to that effect and
invited to send a team over. Two promising
youngsters took part last season —D. Turn-
bull, of South Australia, and 11. Thomp-
son, of N.S.W. Neither won through
to the finals, but both played such good
tennis and so favorably impressed the Ameri-
cans that they and some others like them are
asked for.
* * * ❖
“Cash Amateur”: No wonder Bill Tilden
didn’t jump at the Australian offer for his
tour of his country. His troupe cleaned
up £50,000 for its first season. The syndi-
cate of which Bill is a component part pro-
poses to do a grand tour of Europe next
season, and is trying to hook Henri
Cochet as a star attraction for that tour.
Cochet may take the bait, for, apart
from himself, there is not much chance of
France mustering a strong team for the next
Davis Cup. He is a dealer in tennis and
other sporting goods in any case, and the
border line between an atnateur engaged on
that sort of thing and pure professionalism
is a very nebulous one. All the same Tilden
would be well advised to stick to America.
Even Suzanne Lenglen, the greatest draw
the game has known, couldn’t make a success
of professional tennis in Europe.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fitzcray”: Victoria has long been not-
able for precocious golfers, and every season
sees some infant phenomenon pop up. This
year the new planet is H. L. Williams, 16
years old, who, partnered by .an ancient of
20 winters, R. Harris, won the Victorian
foursomes* The youngster followed that up
by downing Mick Ryan, holder of the title,
for the State championship a few days later,
finishing 4 up and 3 on his opponent. Wil-
liams is a tall stripling who is evenly good
in all departments of the game, while he is
a very long driver. He has been playing
four years, and should go far.
“Cosmos”: So Victoria has produced; in
11. L. Williams, a 16-year-old champion to
match N.S.W,’s Jim Ferrier. It was bound
to happen, and my tip is that there’ll be
plenty more of them. Australian schoolboys
Have only taken to the game in large numbers
during the past five years— i.e., since their
dads, to say nothing of their mums, went
mad about it. They are more developed
physically than lads on the other side of the
world, as a rule. Terrier has a lead of at
least three years on the average British lad
of lfi, and thousands have one- and two-year
leads. Golf can be played almost every day
here, which it can’t in most other countries;
and our well-to-do boys have a lot of leisure,
and few counter-distractions such as hunt-
ing, fishing and shooting. Add to these
advantages the youthful Australian’s capa-
city for concentrating on sport, which chiefly
accounts for our Bradmans and Lindrums,
and you get a feasible explanation of the
boy-wonders who are astonishing the world
of golf.
* * * *
“Wendourec”: Victoria has been indulging
in a regular orgy of golf, beginning with
the country championships, which brought
a large attendance of the men from the
wide open spaces to Yarra’s banks. The
blue ribbon, over 36 holes of stroke play,
was won by A. B. Lyon, who hails from
Sale, Ilis card was 167—fairly good going.
Ballarat retained its title in the Shield
match for country teams, beating Gippsland
after a tough struggle by 19 holes to 18.
and winning five matches out of ten, while
one finished all square.
* * * *
“Yarra Yarra”: Victorian golfers shud-
dered when they read the other day that
some heartless ruffian had stolen the precious
golf clubs of Mick Ryan, ex-amateur champion
of Australia —and that just on the eve of
his appearance in the Victorian amateur
championships. The precious clubs came to
light, however, in time to be available in the
final for the title between Ryan and Wil-
liams, and in a curious way. Police were
inquiring into a shooting affray in a Mel-
bourne suburb when they noticed an indi-
vidual who occupied a sleeping-out hut in
the back yard of the premises sneaking out
by the back gate. This roused curiosity,
and investigation disclosed the missing clubs
in the hut.
# * * *
“Bloggs” : “Anxious” (B. 5/8/’3l), in re-
buttal of my statement that “there isn’t a
golfer in the land with more than an outside
chance of scoring a two at the shortest of
the holes at the Lakes course,” says someone
did this 151-yard hole in one. What of it?
According to a cable the Prince of Wales
did a 220-yard hole at Royal Wimbledon in
one last month. Yet he hasn’t an outside
chance of doing it in two, and neither has
anyone else. The only holes that the cham-
pions who know them best have more than
outside chances of getting twos at are those
under 100 yardsg_ such as you find at Rose
Bay. Pymble, Kuiara. etc., and at nearly all
British links. A plus-man can .lay the ball
dead from the tee at such holes about once
in five chip shots. Bobby Jones himself
couldn’t lay a ball dead at a 150-yard-or-
over hole, except by a fluke.
Car and Cycle
“Differential” : One of the most interest-
ing features of the great Indianapolis 500
motor race in America was the performance
of the Cummins car fitted with a Diesel type
engine, the first occasion when a car of this
type lias been publicly tested in open com-
petition. The jigger was the heaviest in
the field, weighing over 30001 b. The power
unit was 4 cylinder with a piston displace-
ment of 380.8 inches, the bore and stroke
being respectively 4fin and 6in. Of the 17
cars finishing the Cummins was twelfth,
averaging 56.17 m.p.h. and running through
the 500 miles without a stop. Only 10s.
worth of lieavy-oil fuel was used, and there
was plenty in the tank at the finish.
“Rim”: A noticeable feature of recent car
design is the shrinking in diameter of the
wheel. Before the now almost universal
balloon tyre found favor, the old-style thin
tyres were mounted on a wheel of consider-
able diameter. To-day the actual wheel has
diminished in size, while at the same time
the diameter of the hub has increased, until
it is probable that before long the wheel as
such will have vanished, the tyre being
mounted direct on the hub. The smaller
wheel ensures greater stability, lowering, as
it does, the centre of gravity, while accelera-
tion and stopping are both aided by it.
* ... *
“Formula”: For a long time past invent-
ors have been trying to puzzle out some
method of adapting the turbine principle to
motor-car propulsion. Dr. Thompson, an
Oxford scientist, thinks he is on the right
track. He has evolved a chemical mixture
of oxygen and hydrogen sulphide mixed in
certain proportions which, for some as yet
unexplained reason, explodes repeatedly at
regular intervals after the first combustion.
The most important difficulty yet to be solved
in this and other gas-turbine inventions is
in connection with the “fans” which take
up the impulse of the exploding gas. These
must be light to function efficiently, and at
the same time sufficiently heat-resisting to
prevent their fusing in practical use.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : Details of the Tour de France
cycle-race show Opperman’s performance in
a much better light than his placing as 12tli
would indicate. Magne, the winner, aver-
aged 17.63 m.p.h., and Opperman 17.47, an
average which would have won nine out of
the last ten races. It is worth noting, in
view of the importance attached by news-
papers to winning the daily stages, • that
Magne managed to score only once and the
second man, De Muysere, twice. Pelissier
and Di Pacco, an Italian, each won five
stages, but both finished behind “Oppy.”
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Bob Pearce continues on his
devastating career. Last week he won the
Canadian sculling championship, beating Ken
Myers, the American sculling representative
at the last Olympiad, and Peter Wright,
hitherto undefeated Canadian champion and
a winner of the Diamond Sculls. In an
earlier heat Pearce met and defeated Billy
Miller, who had just won the American
amateur title at Philadelphia, so he made a
pretty clean job of it.
* * * *
“Ilotham”: The Victorian- rowing heads
are in a quandary concerning the course
on which to stage next year’s inter-State
eight-oar race for the King’s Cup. This must
be three miles long, though in earlier days a
course of 2-i miles was permitted on the
Yarra. In 1925 a three-mile course w x as
used, but the new Spencer-street bridge now
crosses the river a quarter qf a mile from the
finish, and it is doubtful whether six crfews
will be able to get under it together. How-
ever, tests with local eights are to be made,
and if these are not successful it seems
likely some other waterway may be the venue
—possibly Lake Colac.
❖ ❖ * :i:
“Currant Jelly”: Coursing enthusiasts in
Toowoomba came close to exploding with
wrath the other day when 30 hares kept
for the “sport” were found a.w.l. These
creatures were highly trained, and members
knew them all by their pet names, they hav-
ing run without mishap in many a course.
The local Sherlock got on the scent and
traced the crime to a small Boy Scout, who
owned up to cutting a hole in the wire en-
closure and letting the captives out. He
added a rider to the effect that in his opinion
enclosed coursing was a measly travesty of
sport, and many agree with him.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
e
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
d ark hair,
golden for fair
Dr grey hair.
. Wand’s
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
M. A CO.
MANGROVITB
LEATHER
COATS
Best quality
Guaranteed
A well-cut, carefully-made coat
of best quality Calfskin, lined
and finished in very best style,
and available m Red, Blue.
Green. Grey and Brown
shades. A coat you can abso-
lutely rely on to give wonder-
ful service. Easily cleaned.
Wind proof—water proof and
wear proof
Mangrovitc quality mean»
genuine satisfaction.
MEASUREMENTS
REQUIRED
fs'io'-
Bust. Centre back to shoulder. Shoulder
seam to elbow. Elbow to just past
wristbone. Length of coat under collar
seam to length required.
MAJNGROVITE BELTING LTD
Tanner* SC Manufacturer*
49 YORK STREET (Wynyard Square). SYDNEY
I
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Gariy on's have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, room with breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.e. if staying one week
or more. All meals optional (also
at reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
AYSi
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
Crbr -
COUCHS
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. 9 nce y ? u
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
114 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
The Cenrre of Queenland's
Distinguisheo Social Life
Last week a friend of this Letter’s
rushed into town to visit the Commonwealth
Bank. From afar off in Martin-place she
saw the doors were closed, and, of course,
leaped to one conclusion. She stood stock
still, and waved an arm aloft. “Gracious
heavens!” she ejaculated fervently. “Well,
that’s the end of Lang, but it’s the end of
us, too!” A passer-by noticed her distress
and heard her distraught mutterings. “Can
I do anything to help you, Madam?” he
said solicitously. The woman positively
yammered at him in her excitement. “Don’t
you see what’s the matter.” she cried.
“Doesn’t this city realise what’s happened—
the Commonwealth Bank is closed!” “Yes,
Madam,” replied the sympathiser soothingly;
“it’s a bank holiday.”
Judging by the new hats, woman this
spring will be like Amaryllis in the shade
or present a forehead like a boiled egg or a
road map to the public gaze. But even these
pushed-off-the-forehead hats, only wedded to
the brain-box by the bulldog-like grip of
a bandeau, have a brim —it may swoop to
one side or arch heavenwards, but it is
always there. This Letter likes the smooth
shiny, or coarse shiny straws (mostly ribbon
banded, these), definitely dislikes the little
nose veils, which somehow always suggest
a mask, and would like to have one of
each of the droopy, exotic straws in water-
color blues and pinks and greens, trimmed
with bud and blossom or soft wide ribbon.
A black hat, its brim panelled with prim-
roses ; a soft white bangkok, very small as to
brim and trimmed across the front with two
white wings; and a faint green baku, its
wide and curved brim completely lined with a
fino primrose straw, were three of the most
effective millinery spring songs seen last
week. But probably the two types of hat
Sydney will get to know to monotony point
during the sunny months will be the brod-
erie Anglaise for picturesque, aud the
speckled straw sailor for utility wear. Black
hats, large and floppy (no brims are wired
this year), have their crowns banded in
byight velvets or ribbons that droop off in
bows to the back of the brim. Occasionally
soft pique in rainbow tints takes the place
of the ribbon; and the bowler we were
threatened with appears mostly in crown
suggestions.
Well, it shows what gentlemen Sydney’s
bad lads are that on the night of the
Police Ball there wasn’t one misdeed
worthy of a streamer headline in the next
morning’s paper. Yet there must have been
hundreds of the guardians of law and order
at the ball, for there were over 2000 dancers
making merry at the Palais Royal. Sir
Philip Game looked in about nine o’clock,
and with him came Captain Geoffrey Hughes.
All the police brass-liats, from Commissioner
Childs down, were there, and so was Chief
of Fire Brigades T. Nance. Politicians were
on tap; and pretty blondes and brunettes
dazzled the eye on every side. But the inter-
esting part of the proceedings was to watch
the meekness with which bulwarks of
authority (before whose uniformed arms the
maddest motorist, the most hardened tax-
evader. quails) obeyed the signal of wifely
eye, tin; guidance of a daughter’s hand. It
just showed that a policeman in his own
home is but a husband, after all! Nor must
the chronicler forget Constable Collins,
who sold hundreds of pounds’ worth of
tickets; the secretaries, H. C. Randall and
A. Lendrum; president C. L. Gavin, J. J.
Carney and treasurer W. Kerr. The police
fund will benefit.
A few new faces occasionally smile through
at the Navy’s parties. On the Canberra the
other night, when it was giddily beset with
bunting and arrayed for a farewell dance
before a three-months’ cruise among the
Islands, were Mrs. Ernest Brookes, in ame-
thystine moire, its top piece a bolero effect,
and the newly-arrived Pope couple. The
components of a Navy party are generally
as familiar to one another as Noah and
Ham, Shem and Japheth must have been in
the Ark. Mrs. John McKelvey, who has been
more or less anchored to hearth and home
lately by neuritis, turned up her smiling self
at this cheerio. Her frock was a thing of
beauty: white flat crepe, sheath-like, and
sporting the graceful cowl. This was edged
with black lace. Black and white chiffons
were flown by Mrs. Oscar Paul, and grass-
green georgette splashed with diamente by
Mrs. Oscar Ireland. Commodore Holbrook
was assisted by Mrs. Farquhar-Smith and
Flag-Lieutenant Gatacre.
You could scarcely see the writers because
of the readers at the Journalists’ Ball last
week. The Blaxland Galleries were crowded,
nobody went home till morning, and as the
mortality among the bottles rose everybody
got more and more amiable. The Governor,
attended by Captain Seccombe, arrived by
nine o’clock, and Chief Justice Street and
his lady (president of the ball committee),
the Mayoral Jacksons and the Alexander
Gordon lady were among the retinue that
helped to make the vice-regal entry duly im-
pressive. There were 11 pretty debs., and
every here and there among the hundreds
of dancers in modern garb a fancy costume
would flash. One group of the masqueraders
represented a Century in Journalism (“S.
M. Herald”), and were dressed in the
fashions of IS3I, 1864, 1897, 1931. The cos-
tumes weren’t donated by the “Herald,” but
were lent by J. C. Williamson; however,
the lads and lasses had their photographs in
the following morning’s paper. Dulcie
Deamer danced gaily, her famous leopard-
skin slung about her, and if hers wasn’t
a runner-up for the most original costume
it should have been, for probably both Eve
and Lilith worried the life out of Adam for
just such a weather barricade. A nice couple
went as Henry Parkes and his lady. Por-
trait-painter John Longstaff was amor 4 g the
beaux of the night. Alathea Glasby, sug-
gesting, as usual, one of Sliakspeare’s hero-
ines, helped Syd Long and Monte Luke judge
the costumes. Bertha Bailey, llangi Rae
and Rosalie Faulkner were important young-
committee people. C. C. Faulkner was tin-
secretary, and Mrs. J. E. Davenport the
treasurer of the money-raiser.
There were loud hosannas at the annual
meeting when the Rachel Forster Hospital
again presented a balanced budget. The
little hospital that does such a great work
never has been in debt, aud possibly that
is one of the reasons of the cheerfulness that
sweeps like sunshine through its rooms and
corridors. Lady Game was among (lie en-
thusiasts who gave ear to the report and
uttered eulogies over the preventive work for
which the hospital is famous. Mayoress Jack-
son, Mrs. Muscio and Dr. Sydney Morris
also .struck the loud cymbal of praise; Dame
Mary Hughes presided; secretary Kate
Ogilvie was welcomed back from her travels,
and after the speeches there was tea
for all in the drawing-room of the Women’s
Club.
Jean Cheriton, somewhat shaken after
weeks in Lewisham, during which several
amesthetics and two operations were her
issue, is now emerging into the daily round.
First of all, though, she is to be cosseted
for a fortnight at Government House by the
kind-hearted Lady Game. The vice-regal
lady was one of Jean’s most constant visi-
tors, and all through the long weeks has kept
a big bowl of red carnations by the sick bed.
Later, when she is stronger, the popular
principal of Doone goes to friends in the
country. •
Perhaps nothing that Anthony Hordern
has featured lias had a wider appeal among
city and sub-
urban house-
wives than the
lectures on the
safe and effi-
cient methods
of using elec-
trical 1 ab o r-
savers. They
were given
with demon-
strations by
Mrs. F. V.
M cKenzi e,
Sydney’s only
woman electri-
cal engineer;
and the saving-
in minor acci-
dents in hun-
dreds of homes
should be the
result of her
crisp and con-
cise explana-
tions. May Moore made this photograph of
the unusual lady for The Bulletin.
There was nothing deflated about the
Goodyear Ball; the whole evening bounced
along gaily as a balloon. This was the sixth
yearly dance, and over 500 members of the
rubber company and their friends fore-
gathered to celebrate in the Blaxland Gal-
leries.
The Royal Art Society has to economise, too,
and this year it combined its smoke concert
and conversazione. The party filled the Edu-
cation Galleries one night last week, and
while the artist and the merely artistic sat
intimate-like around small tables and
wreathed themselves with cigarette smoke,
music flowed and sparkled through the two
long rooms. Tasmanian girl Ruby Piesse
arranged the programme. There were
lightning sketches by F. A. Butler, supper
was served at ten, and lights were out by
eleven —these dashing Bohemian artists like
to get to bed early. According to the rules
the name of the winner of the Wynne prize
has to be announced at a public art gather-
ing, so, although everybody knew it, C. B.
Westmacott arose aud declared that Will
Ashton’s Kosciusko was the successful land-
scape. Among the 300 elect were the Lister
Listers, singer Carrie Lanceley, Alice
Bryant (rather lonely without brother
Charlie, who always squired her to these,
junketings), secretary Estelle Oxnard Smith,
the Salvanas and the Morgan O’Neills. Tall
Mrs. Florence Taylor, her hair piled high
and diamond earrings dangling, was pro-
bably the most gazed-at woman of the night.
Doris Fitton’s move to the Palace lias
left her Independent ushers nothing to do.
Round at the old Savoy stand, all club
members not in the show met the audience
and sleuthed seats, sold programmes, pointed
out the cloak-room and so on. But at the
Palace all this is done by the professional,
and at the Palace opening on Saturday night
some of the Independent’s leading men had
nothing to do but gracefully drape the boxes.
Still, the change-over appears to be a case
of all to gain and nothing to lose, for there
is something almost paternal in the attitude
of the J. C. Williamson firm to this plucky
group of amateurs.
This is the latest Dayne picture of Mrs,
H. J. Feakes, who will be the new hostess at
Treseo. Her husband, who was in command
of the sea-
plane - carrier
Albatross, has
succeeded the
genial Captain
John Bryan
Stevenson as
captain-super-
intendent of
naval estab-
lishments,
N.S.W., and
this means a
move for. the
Feakeses from
their comfort-
able quarters
at the Garden
Club to Treseo,
which is just
around the
corner.
The first meeting of the P. E. N. Club was
held at the Mascot last Friday. First of all,
everybody talked a little, and when the proper
matey atmosphere had been created dinner
was served. After that the executive was
voted in, Le Gay Brereton being elected
president, Dorothea Mackellar a vice-presi-
dent, and Ruth Bedford secretary. Dorothea
and Ruth are really responsible for forming
the Sydney quill of the P.E.N. For the
initial meeting Dorothea draped herself in a
Sappho-like scarf that had a deep gold
border, while Marjorie Quinn’s coat wore a
collar (or so it seemed) of red geranium
petals. The Barnard-Eldershaw alliance
wore evening garments befitting successful
novelists, and anthropologist Dr. Firth (going
even one better than predecessor Radcliffe
Brown) looked like a hero out of Michael
Aden. Most of the men came in tweeds, but
the glad-rag sex, no matter how poetic, turned
up in marcel, earrings and the whirling
chiffons of the moment. Mary Gilmore,
Dora Moore and Ethel Turner were among
the women writers who helped lay the foun-
dations of Sydney’s newest club, and all the
male literary lions and lions’ cubs roared
approval, pianissimo of course.
Domestics and employees in the motoring
industry are being hit hardest by the reduc-
tion of salaries in the public service. Fami-
lies that have come down from £7OO to £572
10s. per annum are beginning by dispensing
with the “help.” The £lOOO a year family
(reduced to £BOO a year Ms getting rid of a
maid and the car, where it has a car. But
many in and about this stratum who are
financing out-of-work relatives have already
been obliged to sell or lay up their flivvers.
According to the Traffic Office nearly 10,000
registrations have lapsed in the past 12
months. The only comfort is that every-
body’s doing it. For the first time in the
memory of living Sydneyites it is fashionable
to be poor, and talk about it. In fact, some
people are more blatantly arrogant on the
subject of their indigence than pre-slump
profiteers ever were about their wealth. The
poverty-proud are very hard to bear with
these days.
With the handsome architecture of their
college as a background, the students of
Sancta Sophia staged one of the jolliest of
the University dances this season. Poin-
settia, Iceland poppies and the ever useful
asparagus fern decorated the rooms and
reflected the red, gold and green of the col-
lege colors. Mrs. Walter Burfitt, in a trail-
ing frock of burgundy laces, and senior
student Kit Benson received the younger
guests, while Miss K. Egan and Mrs. Leon
Lyons helped to welcome the intellectual
heavyweights of the ’Varsity. Kit Benson’s
spreading frock of tea-rose pink satin had
a border of leaf-green, and secretary Mar-
garet Webster shimmered in summer sky-
blue satins.
Greystanes, No. 3 York-street, the solid
stone house with its decidedly Anglican cut
where Dowell O’Reilly spent his boyhood,
and where his sister, wife of Arbitration
Judge Piddington, was born (their father
then being padre at St. Philip’s on Church
Hill), is now the headquarters of the United
Nursing Services Co-operative Club. Under
the direction of Mrs. Orr, A.T.N.A. and
R.V.T.N.A., the club sets out to help nurses
who are feeling the pinch of unemployment,
as so many of them are. There are a spacious
clubroom and a dining-room where reason-
ably-priced meals are served.
The Empire Service Club has moved from
Miller’s Point to the Queen Victoria Mar-
kets ; but the welcome for lonely migrant
lads i.s just as warm as at the old address.
Funds, of course, are low, but D. G. Mac-
dpugall, one-time secretary of the Alfred
Hospital in Melbourne, has been drawn into
the net. so probably the club, of which Dr.
Mary Booth is president, will soon seethe
with money-raising schemes.
These days the city is filled with music.
Along every traffic-swept street the maimed
and the out-of-work play their flutes, their
violins or their gramophones. The kindly
do not look for any grain of even ironic
humor from their hard-up brother and sister,
but the other day in Darlinghurst staid
business men were seen to grin suddenly as
they dropped their pennies beside a poor
little woman plying a gramophone near the
kerb. Close to her instrument was a .state-
ment of her claim and of her gratitude. It
read : “I have three children. Thank you!”
Pickings from Bananaland :
At the A to Z ltevue held for the benefit of
Rotary’s fund for crippled children, society loomed
large, both in the audience and on the stage, in
pretty frocks and smart wraps. The grand finale
showed Brisbane at its most youthfully frivolous
in a cabaret scene; before this many tiny tots,
pupils of Thelma Robertson, proved themselves quite
able dancers. There were totem ballets, a Chinese
scena, a period dance in crinoline, a dream gavotte
and a Grecian frieze. In the audience were Sir
John and Lady Goodwin, the Mayor and Mayoress,
the T. B. Hunters, George Sampsons, Nixon-Smiths,
Camerons, Mr. W. Hugall and Mrs. V. McCulloch.
A drumhead service, the first of its kind in Queens-
land, was held before the Brisbane City Hall, having
been arranged by former Imperial service men as the
first of the celebrations of Remembrance Week. The
Governor was present. The Mayor, who served in
the war, acted as chairman ; Archbishop Sharp, Dean
Dixon, Canon Barrett and the Rev. Norman Miller
officiated. Traditional etiquette was observed, the
drums being piled for an altar and the colors draped
thereon for an altar cloth and there was a pipe band.
200 strong. The soldiers marched past the Gover-
nor at the close of the service, and at the foot
of the Eternal Flame in Anzac-square the Last Post
was sounded and a Highland Lament given.
The Queensland Hockey Association had a dinner-
dance at the Ann Hathaway for delegates and mem-
bers of the visiting hockey teams. Freda Bage, who
is president of the All Australia Women’s Hockey
Association, received, wearing black mariette. Baskets
of Queensland fruits, tied with pale blue and .gold
streamers, were handed to the captains of the N.S.W.
and Victorian teams.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin are off again next
month for a tour of the northern part of Queensland.
In St. Stephen’s Cathedral Michael Hickey took to
wife Willa Margaret Short. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in ivory mariette
and cut tulle veil. Molly McCormack, Molly Hickey
and Rita Kennedy ’maided in rose-pink taffetas with
cream lace hats.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore were at the C.W.A.
dance in North Tambourine Hall, Mrs. A. T. Bayne
receiving. Mrs. Moore wore pink mariette and black
lace; Mrs. Bayne chose black velvet; and Mrs. Eccles.
matron of honor, was in floral crepe de Chine. The
other matron of honor, Mrs. A. T. Geissmann, was
in black velvet and diamente. The debs, presented
to Mrs. Moore were Ivy Kidd, Elsie Wilson, Edna
Wilson, Hazel Coleman, Jean Wilson and Betty
Carmichael.
A talk with Tassie :
The annual University Ball was held at the Con-
tinental. Chancellor Elliott Lewis was on the sick
list and could not attend, but the official party in-
cluded his lady, the Dennis Butlers, the warden of
Christ’s and Mrs. Barrett, and the officers of the
Students’ Union. Frocking was extremely good,
short waists, long flowing skirts, fichu and beltin'-
effects predominating. The Continental orchestra
made delightful music.
The Ernest Sorells had a double-barrelled festivity
at Lindfield for daughter Dorothy’s coming-of-age
and her sister Marjorie’s coming-out. Mrs. Sorell
wore a frock of dark wine-colored velvet-embossed
georgette, and the girls wore respectively peach-pink
satin and ivory chiffon velvet. There were 130
guests.
Word comes from England of the engagement of
Arthur Gordon Walch to Betty Clarke, of Brigmerston
House, Salisbury. The prospective bridegroom is the
son of Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. J. C. Walch, formerly of
Hobart.
Barbara, daughter of the George Bonds, Bon Vista-
road, became Mrs. Ray Robertson on her eighteenth
birthday, Dean Rivers fastening the knot at St.
David’s Cathedral. The young bride made a picture
in her long plain gown of heavy dead-white satin
tightly fitting to below the hip line, whence it
flowed fully. The white tulle veil fell from a Juliet
cap of Limerick lace. The ’maids, Jean Shaw and
Mabel Robertson, wore full white organdie frocks
topped by the new wide flop hats of Swiss embroi-
dery. Little Elizabeth Bond was trainbearer.
Hadley’s Hotel housed the wedding feast.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tail.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GONDOLIERS
CRITERION: MANY WATERS
TIVOLI CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE,
at
THE THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
ACTS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD!
The Two Rascals, Neil McKay, Josephine Trix, Rene
Riano, Lily Moore, the Marbellos, Clem Dawe, Fred
QuiritreH’s Band.
Box Plans at Palings. ’Phone (Theatre) 87255
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GRAND OPERA—
CARMEN, FAUST, TOSCA.
YIVOLI THE ATR E, MELBOURNE^
Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Yaudevilie Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and S p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Older of the High Court of
Justice Irish Free State made In the Matter
of the Estate of Hannah M. Scannell (otherwise
Collins) deceased Catherine McHugh Plaintiff and
Timothy Collins Defendant John Collins Nora
Kelleher otherwise Collins and Elizabeth Massev
othervnse Collins lawful children of Thomas Collins
of Newmaiket Co. Cork and brother and sisters of
said Hannah M. Scannell or if dead their children
respectively are on or before the 4th day of Nov-
ember 1931 to come in and prove their' claims as
next of kin of the said Hannah M. Scannell at the
Central Office Law Courts The Castle Dublin or in
default thereof they will be peremptorilv excluded
from the benefit of the said Order Wednesday the
llt.h day of November 1931 at eleven of the clock
in the forenoon at the said office is appointed for
hearing- and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 11th day of June, 1931.
JOHN HEALY,
WILLIAM D. MOCKLER, Solicitor,
59 South Hall, Cork; and
22 Bachelor’s Walk, Dublin.
Always Use the
Best!
Clitic lira Soap
for regular daily toilet use
in the home and for sham-
pooing the hair.
Cuticura Ointment
for rashes and all skin irrita-
tions of young and old.
Cuticura Talcum
as an ideal finishing touch
to your toilet.
Soap la. Ointment la. and 2s. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabetlran
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?]for [?]
Buckey a Nunn [?]
[?]
The extensively-heralded International
Gala, sponsored by the League of Nations
Union and other peace-seeking organisations,
burst forth at the Town Hall on Friday.
Stalls represented the life and work of the
people of 2S
nations, most of
the exhibits being
lent and not for
sale. A special
feature was a
pageant, “The
Triumph of Peace,”
in which people
wearing the cos-
tumes of various
nations and carry-
ing flags, marched
through the hall to
form a tableau
about a figure sym-
bolical of Peace.
This item was
arranged by Mrs.
Ernest Scott, Mr.
and Mrs. T. Leslie
Middleton. Violet
Teague and others.
Shirley Tweddle, in
draperies of white,
represented Peace.
Sprites in crimson
capered about her
tauntingly; the
nations, with a roll
of drums, came to
her aid and the
demons fled. In
the triumphal
march were over
370 characters cull-
ed from history,
Queen Bess, greatly
bucked up by being
allowed to chat with
Victoria the Good.
plays and fables.
Britannia, personated by Mrs. Henry
Maudsley, led the first group, and Aus-
tralia as hostess nation was last. Queen
Victoria (Dr. Constance Ellis), in black,
with white mull muslin widow’s cap and
fall, chafed amicably with Queen Eliza-
beth. Henry VIII. marched _ with all
his five wives and one widow, and
seemed quite happy. Mrs. Aubrey Gib-
son, as Germania, led a group in which
Madame Orff-Solscher made a striking Brun-
hilde. Abraham Lincoln (Helton Daniell)
dominated the American group, as was
proper, associated with Pilgrim fathers, Red
Indians and a fair lady, who brought to life
Bartholdi’s Statue of Liberty. Jessie,
daughter of Mrs. Herbert Brookes, president
of the Women’s Auxiliary for International
Affairs, which managed the show, was one of
the Puritan maidens. The Italian batch was
noticeable for the absence of Mussolini,
Benito and the dove of peace not being
reckoned very good pals, apparently. The
period of Louis XIV. was chosen for the
dressing of most of the members of the
French delegation, which included a few
peasants. Norwegian and Swedish groups,
were most effective. The Chinese and
Japanese colonies here provided repre-
sentatives, who sported their picturesque
national costumes. All the States of
the Commonwealth had a place, and there
were gold-diggers and sundowners, but no
“Fancy old Jones
being such a goat as
to get himself up like
that!”
King Billy. A new
anthem “Australia,
Land of Ours,”
composed by Dud-
ley Glass, was sung
by Frank Gil-
johann.
The great interest
taken in the show
by foreigners in
Melbourne, who
undertook the fur-
nishing of stalls,
was evident in the
amount of care and
thought displayed in
the settings of ex-
hibits of needle-
craft, china furni-
ture and other
handicraft. T h e
German community
arranged its corner
as a room, in which
was a Christmas-
tree with lighted tapers, and the wee wooden
figures with more candles that form pre-
sents to children were scattered about
among more valuable things. The Greeks
lined their section with most exquisite
white bedspreads in lace and embroidery,
mounted upon a blue background. The spin-
ning and carding of wool and the picturesque
dresses of the peasantry Were featured in the
Norwegian allotment. The Egyptian recess
was a dream of Oriental luxury—all
draperies, cushions and incense-burners. The
Russian folk, headed by Madame Mortill,
whose magnificent party gown smacked of old
Muscovy, invited passers-by to look upon
antiques of much interest and sample Rus-
sian tea and cake.
The gala was officially opened (when it
was nearly finished) on Saturday afternoon
by Lieut.-Governor Irvine, who was intro-
duced by Prof. Harrison Moore, president
of the League of Nations Union. In
the evening the lower hall, which was
set aside for dancing between the sym-
bolic performances, was too small to
hold all who wished to jazz. Upstairs in the
big supper-room Rose Paterson, Mrs. Corn-
foot, Mrs. A. Norman and Mrs. I. H'. Moss
had a busy time providing coffee and a bit
to eat for thousands. The pageant went
better than on its first presentation, and on-
lookers were afforded a better view as the
various groups paced through the hall, led
by Peace, with a young Australian who
rather suggested Hop’s “little boy from
Manly’’ waving the flag. Wing-Commander
Harrison’s wife was Canberra, in white
draperies and laurel-crowned. Burke and
Wills were mistaken for bushrangers.
Izobel Duncan, in the inky cloak of
Hamlet, preceded the flag-bearer in the
Danish platoon. Margaret, daughter of the
Oswald Symes, appeared as the Infanta of
a Velasquez portrait in the Spanish group.
Mrs. L. Baillieu, Gracie Lavers that was,
waved the flag of the Belgians, in whose
cohort were a dozen girls in frocks of satin,
red, black or gold. Roberta and Helene,
twin daughters of the handled Robert Bests,
were among them.
. dance of Saturday night was super-
vised by Mrs. F. W, Eggleston. Among the
engineers were Jean Eggleston, who was in
uie yellow and gold embroidered robes of
Catherine Parr, having been ILenry the Hor-
rible s one widow in the pageant; Hersey
Brookes and her sister Elaine, the one in
parchment satin and the other in blue velvet;
Marjory Stephens, in bright blue organdie
muslin embroidered with tiny posies; Pat
Hammond, who wore faint pink chiffon
flounces and Betty Raynes Dickson.
.Numerous people danced in fancy dress, and
tlie contempt of some of the men who wore
the customary solemn black for those in frills
and furbelows was comic. Madame Kassovs-
kaia donned the Cossack uniform she wore
when she served in the Russian lines in the
Great War. In the pageant she carried the
Russian flag at the
liead of her unit.
Anne Outhwaite
was a pretty
French flower-girl.
Mrs. W. Brookes
danced in the filmi-
est lace of delicate
pink. Mrs. Her-
bert Brookes was
in black lace. Vera
de Bavay was in
pale pink chiffon,
and her sister
Marie had a sparkle
of silver on her
satin gown. Elise
Steele was attrac-
tive in the draper-
ies and mantilla of
a Spanish girl.
John Monash was
there in mufti,
looking thankful to
be so garbed after
John Monash, glad
to he in mufti after
continuously dressing
otherwise, in the cause
of peace, for five
years.
five years of wear-
ing warlike clobber in the cause of peace.
The grey clouds that brooded over the
Australian Steeplechase meeting did not deter
women who had purchased new millinery
from donning it. There was a great outcrop
of small shiny straw hats, black, black and
white or brown, with narrow brims and
round crowns, a la bowler. The committee
ladies’ box was brightened by an array of
red felt hats. Mrs. Ben Chaffey’s outfit was
black and white, and Miss P. McPherson,
who accompanied her, was a study in navy
blue. Mrs. It. G. Casey, who wore all black,
was accompanied by* her niece, Mrs. Bullivant,
whose bottle-green suit had a collar of nutria
fur. With Mrs. Merson-Cooper was the wife
of Premier Mitchell, of W.A. Her garnet-
red hat topped a musquash coat. Mrs. M. L.
Baillieu contrasted with her navy suit a
canary-yellow vest and felt hat. Mrs. Clive
Leonard was in sapphire-blue, and Mrs.
Norman Robinson chose dark green softened
by mole fur. Mrs. .T. Pell had with her her
daughter, Mrs. Dawborn. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens
was with her daughter, Mrs. Harold Ander-
son, of Geelong. Mrs. Russell Gabb, in a
mink coat, was also in the committee enclo-
sure. Marjorie Clarke’s flecked oatmeal and
brown tweed suit was allied to a wine-red
hat, and Iris Connolly wore a grey tweed
coat and skirt with a matching knitted silk
beret. Mrs. Norman Falkiner and her
daughter Marnie, the Richard Lintons, Mr.
and Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson and Kathleen,
Mrs. Fred Gilder and Mrs. G. Grimwade
were others who watched the racing.
The sun shone for the Findon Harriers’
Hunt Club’s race meeting at Moonee Valley,
and the attendance was large. The enclos-
ure looked as if it were carpeted with green
velvet, and here and there about the hill
and the parking paddocks there were golden
splashes of wattle. Tweeds with matching
millinery were in favor- with feminine race-
goers, and there were only a few fur coats
on yiew, the temperature being a little too
high for such covering. Among those who
watched the racing were Mrs. It. M. Cutli-
bertson, in black and white ensemble; Mrs.
Claud Grice, Mrs. Harold Newbigin, Mrs.
Ronald Macpherson, Pat Newbigin and
Mrs. W. H. Magennis. Leo Miller
escorted his fiancee, Cecil Maudsley, who
wore a tailored suit in lime and grey
check patterning and a green felt hat.
Others there were Mrs. C. 0. Fairbairn,
Mrs. W. Seymour, whose tweed coat in
brown tones matched her felt hat; Mrs. Sep
Miller, Mrs. lan Sargood, Hylda McCardle,
and Phyllis Bray, the last-named a visitor
from Adelaide.
To help the R.V.1.8. there was dancing
and bridge at the Ormond Hall. Mrs. .1.
Frost, president
of the central
auxiliary, was
there in Venetian-
red chiffon with
matching coat,
f u r-b ordere d.
Mayoress Thomp-
son, of Footscray,
came along in
draperies of lily-,
of-tlie-valley green
velvet, and Aubrey
Dye danced in
chiffon patterned
in black, beige
and sealing-wax
red.
I<r. Ker nick
Not Dad, but Henry
the Horrible.
a lid his wife, she
in flowered black chiffon, greeted tin l guests at
the dance of Queen's College students at No. 9.
Elaine Brookes wore draperies of liydrangea-
blue velvet, and her sister Horsey looked
charming in pale-green chiffon. Shirley
.1 weddle had a gleam of silver about her lace
flounces, and Elizabeth Stawell chose lace
of delphinium blue.
.Janet Clarke Hall students danced at St.
Ivilda Plaza, the principal, Enid .Toskc, in
bine, doing the honors. Nancy fle Crespiguy,
in bright blue chiffon ; Mary Hcseltine, wear-
ing mushroom-pink crepe satin; and Freda
Latham, with gold embroidery on a white
mafocain gown, were the secretaries.
A cabaret, and bridge party in Myer’s
tearoom, which was decked with palms and
daffodils, helped the Frankston Othopaedic
.Hospital. .Gertrude Rennie was ticket sec.
The Irvine lady took tea with Mrs. Lauchie
-Mackinnon, president of the Children’s Hos-
pital; Mrs. Edmund Collins, vice-president of
. the organising committee; Mrs. ,T. (). Donog-
! hue, hon. treasurer, and others. Through the
glass top of tlieir table, which was titivated
with pink camellias, emanated a roseate
glow. Flowers, sweets and cigarettes were
sold by Mrs. Harold Grimwade, Mrs. Dudley
Detmold, Mrs. J. Mann and others The
Strad Trio, led by Cecil Parkes; Mrs. Bill-
son, with monologues; Bessie Gaunson and
her violin, and Ralph Daly and Kathleen
. Carroll, with songs, furnished entertain-
ment.
To help equip the new wing of the Nurs-
ing Society’s After-care Home a fancy dress
children’s- party, organised by Mrs. J. J.
Black and Mrs. A. R. Stewart, was held
there. There were dancing, a cinema show.
Punch and Judy and other amusements.
Marion Montgomery supervised the grand
march, and. pupils of Eugenie Duggan and
Alice Wren gave exhibition dances. " Artists
Charles Nuttall, Ola Cohn and Violet Teague
judged the costumes. There was a dance
for grown-ups in the evening.
Gladys, eldest daughter of the late Clar-
ence Weber, wore white georgette and
Limerick lace when she. was married to
Trevor, son .of Mr. and, Mrs. John Rice, of
Caulfield. Ah attendant ’maid wore white
with a wreath of. pink, blossoms..
Some of Henry’s wives. (They must have
had awfully wide tramcars in those days.)
Mr, and Mrs. Hodgson, of Hobart, came
over to give their daughter Ruth into the
keeping of Charles H. Hand, supernumerary
second officer of the P. and O. liner Maloja.
The knot-tying was done at Christ Church.
Brunswick, within a few hours of the liner’s
arrival, and the ship sported a garland en-
circling the mast. Sheila Parsons, from
Tassie, attended the bride, who wore a tra-
velling suit of brown and beige tones with
matching millinery.
The newspaper and magazine committee
had charge of the Victoria League’s meet-
ing, and Mrs. George Blanch told of the acti-
vities of this circle, which distributes light
literature to out-back districts and unem-
ployment camps. The Allen lady, senior
vice-president, welcomed new members.
There was a musical programme in which
pianist Rieke Parker and singer Sheila
Marsden participated.
Doings from South Aus,: —
The Mayor and Mayoress gave a farewell to Dr.
Fenner, Professor Kerr-Grant and Professor Chapman
prior to their departure abroad. There was another
civic party the next morning, when Mr. and Mrs.
Glover entertained the Lud Mayoral Luxtons from
Melbourne. Almost ‘every woman present favored
black.
Toe H had a public guest night at the Town
Hall, and as the committee in an optimistic spirit
had issued 2000 invitations, adding “Bring a
friend,” there was insufficient sitting- and even
standing-room. His Ex. was present, Captain Marriott
was the main speaker, and the programme con-
cluded with the impressive ceremony of lighting
the lamps.
At St. Peter’s Cathedral, North Adelaide, John
Kaines and Nellie Letcher were married. The bride,
daughter of Dr. H. R. Letcher, wore white satin,
and her bridesmaids white organdie over pink tulle.
The engagement is announced of pretty little
Kathleen Bedford, a one-time Adelaide girl, now resi-
dent at Point Piper, Sydney, to James Brazel, of
Park Terrace, Adelaide.
The Science Association of Adelaide University
burst into gaiety in the popular refectory. Professor
and Mrs. Kerr-Grant were host and hostess. The
University students gave their annual ball in the
refectory, when Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Mills received
the guest's.
The Police Ball came off with eclat at the Arcadia.
The Mayor and Mayoress were the guests of Brig.-
General and Mrs. R. L. Leane. State Commandant
W. H. Cass was also present. A comedy item pro-
vided by children dressed as constables on point
duty was much enjoyed.
A reminder from the West:—
Men are steadily sliding into jobs vacated by
women. Dr. Margaret Bromliall having returned to
her own country by the Mooltan, a man radiologist
and radium specialist will succeed her at Perth
Hospital. Dr. Jane Nolan, another member of the
staff, resigns her position in a few vveeks to join
her husband, Dr. Marshall, at Pinjarra. A man
will take on her pathological duties.
The Shell Sports and Social Club had a dance
in aid of the Silver Chain, the league which cares
for old folks and sick ones who feel the pinch of
poverty. At the festivity Mrs. Allingham wore
a gleaming garment of green satin; Mrs. Cam
Milne pinned a nosegay to her black taffetas; inser-
tions of lace melted into Noel White’s citron georg-
ettes ; Mrs. Axel Poignant chose ivory satin; Jean
Carson and Mrs. Berry displayed their liking for
pale pinks; Mrs. Grieve favored lilac satin and Mrs.
Allan Parkes buttercup chiffons and laces.
Gwen Dowson, Daphne de Bcrnales, Winnie Hinde
and two Frenchmen were among the mummers at
the Alliance Frangaise guest-night in National House.
Two acts of “Week-end,” the French adaptation of
“Hay Fever,” were played. Vivacious Madame
Antoine, wearing black laces, came with the presi-
dent ; dark-headed Gwen Dowson, who arranged the
entertainment, wore tiers of mignonette-green satin.
Agnes King has returned home with the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy of the London Uni. in her
pocket. As a result of her Hackett studentship
she has enjoyed two years’ research work abroad.
Long gloves were correct wear at the Karrakatta
Club dance, a few dimpled arms being thnist into
colored specimens. President Mrs. Mervyn Griffiths
spoke a welcome in black moire and laces. Her
lieutenant, Mrs. Archie Burt, clad herself in harmony
with the decorative scheme of Iceland poppies. Airs.
Fred Dempster chose black laces; Agnes Sanderson
wore blue-corded taffetas; Rotha Sanderson was in
salmon-pink ; Sirs. Jack Forrest, in sapphire velvets,
brought Mary, aglow in rose-red satin; another Alary
in deep red was the Wittenoom lass. Buttercup net
was the choice of Airs. Howard, ivory satin of Mrs.
Lawson, and an apple-green garment of Pat Roe.
Irene Carter has booked a berth for herself and
a corner of the Westralia’s hold for her packing-
cases of pictures. Since her return from Italy the
spiders have had no chance to spin webs on her
paintbox and. camp-stool, and bits of Australian bush
have a place with her delicate Italian water-colors.
Some futuristic oils are included for collectors witli
a modern flair. Irene will exhibit in Alelbourne, and
possibly in the Apple Isle.
The Rev. Barnacle, of Subiaco, tied a matrimonial
knot for his daughter Nora and Air. Ben Copley, of
Peppermint Grove. The wedding was very quiet,
the bride dressing her part in a tobacco-brown frock
and hat.
Mrs. H. D. Stapledon is getting ready to visit the
Cold Land. She will stay with daughter Sita, who
married the wealthy Lionel Wills.
“Tlie Alerry AVidow” interfered somewhat with the
booking for “The Alan with a Load of Mischief.”
chosen for the Repertory Club’s extra season. Skilful
Angers turned out three splendid gowns for Dorothy
Alark, who tossed long curls and nodding plumes to
advantage. Alargaret Paton, in a demure apple-green
frock and white cap, was the naughty maid.


FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 20th August
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” . 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour.
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN, £34
For further particulars apply—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18/2.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking, business.
ißf
fe
K
i
%
BURNS PHILP TOURS
FOR YOUR HOLIDAY.
A REGION OF DELIGHT, OFFERING
UNLIMITED ATTRACTIONS TO THE
TOURIST.
Regular sailings from Australian Ports.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl.
NO EXCHANGE.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
é
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIiFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Trap.
A FINE DRAMATIC STORY OF A TRAPPER’S E X P ERIENCES, BY
GEORGE MUNDY.
DONOVAN sat beside his camp-fire, read-
ing by the light of a hurricane-lamp.
He had little time to read, but did as
much of it as he could by night to give his
mind something to occupy it, apart from lus
daily life and the constant outrage to his
sensibilities which his work involved.
At eleven o’clock Donovan rose and pre-
pared to go round his traps for the last
time that night. How he hated the business
—the cruelty of it. Yet it was a necessity:
he must live, and this was the only job he
could get; indeed, he was lucky to have a
job at all. .He: drew some small comfort
from two odd sources —first, that it was a
hard life and he also suffered, for cold, dis-
comfort, hard fare, ,constant toil (he dug
out as well as : trapped) and broken rest
were part of liis daily lot; also he liked to
reflect that he was doing a service, not only
to his employer, but also to the dumb beasts
whose lord that employer was. The matronly
ewes, heavy in, lamb, who were, in .the pad-
dock he was working would need fresh,
wholesome feed to provide milk for their
lambs in spring,, and there was no doubt
that the little grey, rabbits polluted the pas-
tures as .well as picked out all the best and
i most nourishing grass and herbage. .
Lantern in hand, Donovan clambered
about the stony hillsides, collecting skins and
re-setting his traps. Presently he came to
; a pla'ce where he had been digging out bur-
rows before the recent rain. Just beyond the
old grey 'tree-trunk that lay upon the ground
was a trap with a rabbit in it. As he went
towards it his foot slipped into a newly-
opened liole,'and he stumbled. He grasped
the ‘ stump of a branch protruding from the
old • trunk to steady himself ; five digging-out
Work he had done had destroyed the stability
of the, massive log, and now, after the rain,
it was only precariously balanced. . Ilis
weight, dragging, suddenly upon it, caused
it to topple, to heel over and' on to him
before he could escape. It came quietly
and did not actually alter its position greatly
—just enough to push him over, breaking
one arm beneath him as lie lay upon his
side and pinning the other to the ground.
The broken arm was painful, but other-
wise he was not uncomfortable at firsthand
he did not immediately realise the serious-
ness of his predicament. For a time he hesi-
tated to make any effort to free himself,
fearing lest the tree-trunk should move
further and crush him utterly; but he could
soon see by the light of the lantern, still
burning beside him, that there was little
danger of that—it appeared to be settled
quite firmly now.
He tried to extricate himself, but found
that, unaided, he could never do so. His
broken left arm was useless, while the out-
flung right arm was held securely between
the smooth grey log and the earth beneath
it. He could lift and turn his head, and his
legs were free, but he must remain where
he lay until someone came that way.
Until someone came that way! Who
should come that way? He was far from
any road ; he was working alone —there was
nobody to know whether he returned to his
camp or not—and the only hope of rescue
he had was from any stockman who hap-
pened to ride the paddock. If the ewes had
begun to lamb there would have been a man
round them every day, but just now there
was no knowing whether anyone would come
for days.
Altogether things did not look promising
for an early rescue.
Donovan had been at work since daylight,
and now he was so weary that in spite of
his terrible situation and the pain of his
injured arm he slept—a fitful, uneasy sleep.
At dawn the song of the magpies awoke
him. How fresh the world looked! Dew
shone upon the blades of grass, the threads
of spider-web linking the tussocks were huug
their full length with little drops, and the
upper surface of the log that held him cap-
tive was wet. He caught some of the mois-
ture as it trickled down, licking with his
tongue at the side of the log. His move-
ments terrified that other captive, the rabbit
in the trap only a little way up the hill-
side, and it tried desperately to free itself.
The sun rose, and its warm rays gave some
comfort to Donovan’s chilled body; but as
the morning wore on he began to wish for
clouds to temper the heat, which was be-
coming an additional trial. There was,
however, not a cloud in the sky.
An occasional bird flew overhead, and pre-
sently he became aware of an eaglehawk
hanging directly over him, almost station-
ary. At first'it seemed infinitely far away
in the blue, a mere speck, but gradually it
grew larger as, circling without effort, it
sank.
Now he could distinguish the feathers of
its wingtips, spread out and separated like
the fingers of hands —tilting, gliding,, swing-
ing lower and lower. Soon the evil bird
perched upon a near-by 1 tree, and ■ he was
able to see the.cruel hooked beak, the'for-
midable claws that clutched) the branch upon
which, it sat, and, the .plumage that, unlike
that of other wild birds, gave an impression
of untidiness and even uncleanness.
For one horrible moment die thought; that
it meant to attack him, but then he remem-
bered the rabbit in the trap. Of course that
was ,wliat the eagle was after.
The presence of the man evidently aroused
its suspicions, for it sat for a very long
time on the tree, motionless except for an
occasional quick turn of the head. At last
it swooped to the ground near the rabbit-trap,
and the rabbit, frantic with terror, made the
chain rattle as it struggled to free itself. The
eagle was very , deliberate, but at length it
hopped across the short intervening space.
There were a few agonised squeals; and
Donovan, sickened, turned his eyes away>
from the sight of living, flesh rent asun-
der. When next he looked the trap was
empty and the eagle had disappeared.
By this time-his head as well as his arm
was throbbing with pain, and all his fevered
body was craving for a drink. He thought
of his billy at the camp, standing half-full
of cold tea,. and then of the little spring
at \yhich he filled it. There was. soft, black
mud at tbe bottom of the shallow pool, and
one had to be careful in-dipping , out water
not to disturb it, but the water w;as clear
and sparkling as it gushed out from under
a rock, and cold • as ice. < Yet he was some-
how more'attracted by. the thought of ; the
billy than . of the spring—There - was - some-
thing so homely about the billy, dull black
outside, stained a clear, clean brown within,
and with a dent in it where he had dropped
it once. Yes', a comfortable image in his
mind was that of the old billy.
He would not be able to endure this much
longer. .. , But that was an absurd thought:
there was no escape for him, so endure it
he must —until he either went mad or died,
unless somebody found him.
Anyhow, if he did die where he lay, there
was nobody to care much. His mother would
be sorry, of course; but she had her second
husband and young family : Ned Donovan, the
child of her first marriage, had drifted almost
out of her life since he had gone back to
the bush.
' As he' lay he thought of his childhood and
of the father, a station-hand, who had died
when Ned was only a little boy. The widow,
who had been a city girl, took the- child
back with her to her old home, and there
they had lived until she had married again.
He stayed on with his grandparents, though
his heart always turned towards the bush.
When bad times came and the firm for which
he worked after his schooldays were done
had to close down, he went back to the dis-
trict from which lie had come.
It had been hard to get any work at first,
but he was strong and not afraid of work,
and he managed to find one odd job after
another until, when winter and the rabbiting
season came on, he had the luck to be given
a large paddock to trap and dig out for his
father’s old employer, who remembered the
elder Donovan as a good man, and was glad
to help his son.
Except for the actual killing of the trapped
rabbits, which he loathed and always would
loathe, Donovan liked the life well. He
never felt lonely—there always seemed to be
something to occupy his thoughts: things he
had read about, things that he saw from
day to day, the ways of the birds and beasts
among whom he lived, the growth of the
grass and herbage, the clouds, the changing
winds —in the bush every little thing seemed
to have its meaning and its message. Then,
when the week-end came, he would go to the
station for supplies, perhaps get a lift into
town to.sell.his skins: Steve, the head stock-
man, remembered his father, and young
Donovan was welcome at his hut on Sunday
afternoons. Altogether it was a good life, and
he found it hard to understand how so many
strong, healthy young men were satisfied with
indoor life in the cities.
The long day wore on, and presently the
sheep came over the hill and towards him,
grazing quietly along, peaceful and sedate.
They were well-bred ewes,. fully-woolled and
heavy in lamb, and there was something very
comfortable and homely, about the look of
them. He liked their smell, too, as it came
down the wind. It reminded him of pleasant
and familiar things—like his old billy at
the camp. He smiled ruefully; surely his
mind must be beginning to wander now, when
he could trace a likeness between his bat-
tered old billy and the boss’s best young
ewes!
■He hoped the sheep would come close and
stay grazing around him ; they were stupid
and indifferent, but there was about them
a friendly atmosphere, a suggestion of kind-
liness, though no actual kindliness was there.
As they , came near the warrens, however,
they showed distaste for the pasture ; they
would taste a mouthful and pass on. Not
until they were well out of range of the
rabbit stronghold did they again settle down
; contentedly to their grazing.
At the warren a little way up the hill —
the, one he would have been digging out to-day
-—the rabbits were beginning to come out for
their evening play. They were very different
from the sheep that had just gone by. They
would pop up, look around, and sit about
like cats. Donovan did not like the look of
them or-the way they moved —lippety, lip-
.pety, something between a crawl and a hop.
Like the vermin that they were. Yes, vermin
was the .right name for rabbits.
■ There was something rather disgusting
about them, too, though he had not noticed
it before—something fat, grey and unclean;
one would expect their flesh to be soft and
pale, as it was. And that business of over-
running the clean, wholesome pastures and
defiling them so that decent beasts could no
longer relish the grass was revolting
Vermin —yes, was the word. Never again
would lie trap rabbits or anything else, but
if he got the chance he would fight them in
every other way and retrieve these paddocks
to the use of the clean and kindly sheep.
The sun, wind and rain would soon sweeten
the country again, and he would like the job
of seeing that never again should the foul
little creatures gain a footing.
His broken arm throbbed, but it was little
worse now than his other arm and his back.
But soon it would be night and then perhaps
he might sleep a little —and forget his thirst.
What were those crows doing? The two
of them had flown overhead several times
and had alighted on the tree where the eagle
had sat. There was no rabbit in the trap
now to attract them.
O God! could they be after him? No.
they would never dare. But would they?
Crows were so cunning, they might under-
stand that he was helpless, and well he
knew what happened to any helpless crea-
ture when the crows found it! He turned
cold and shuddered as he thought of it.
First the eyes, the titbits, and then
but what did anything else matter after that
first horror?
But the night was coming fast now, and
soon he would be safe —until daylight. And
then it would probably be hours before they
would venture to actually attack him. They
would come nearer and nearer, growing
bolder as he did not move, until lie would
shout; and then they would fly away. But
not far away, and not for long. They would
return, and one would perch upon the log,
and he would see the hard brown eyes re-
garding him speculatively, see the fringe of
short little feathers standing out at the base
of the terrible grey beak that, was like an
iron spike. He could kick and scare them
away for a while longer; but sooner or later
they would understand.
* * * *
The boss was riding out with Steve to
muster some cattle in a far paddock. It was
quite early in the morning, and they enjoyed
the freshness and the sunshine. Though it
was still winter, the rain had freshened up
the grass, and the boss looked around with
satisfaction at the green tinge on the hill-
sides.
“Look over there, Steve,” said he. “Those
crows seem to have something against that
old dead tree. One of the ewes must be
down. It is alive, anyhow': I can see some-
thing moving.”
They rode towards the place, keen eyes
on the thing on the ground that somehow
did not look like a sheep, though it was so
far away that it was impossible to sec
clearly. Then, “Good God! It’s a man.
It must be Donovan !”
A volley, like gunshots, from the stock-
whips, and the crows rose and flew away,
while the two men galloped up the hillside.
Donovan, roused by the cracking of the
whips, opened his eyes—though he knew the
futility of it, he had closed his lids, so frail
and useless as defences against the terrible
beaks —when he felt that the crows were no
longer to be scared away.
The crows were gone, and men were com-
ing ; the hideous nightmare had passed!
Hitherto he had kept almost calm, but
now he found himself sobbing; the relief was
unnerving him more than any part of the
long ordeal had done. He felt —shameful
thought!—as if he might give way to tears!
Desperately he pulled himself together,
achieved a grin, and croaked hoarsely:
“Morning, sir. Morning, Steve. Been
taking a dose of my own medicine. The
trapper trapped!”
“And then,” said Steve, telling the story
afterwards, “the silly cow, after joking and
grinning when he must have been in Hell, as
soon as we get him free and up on his
feet, goes and faints. Some blokes is queer.
But this one’s luck is in: the boss has taken
a terrible fancy to him and is going to give
him a permanent job when he comes out of
tin- hospital. Queer, isn’t it? Them crow-
was the saving of him, after all.”


Make your own
money-saving
family remedy
for
COUGHS
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA.
COSTS 2/-, SAVES £’s.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will
enable people to make the best family cough remedy,
and at the same time save much money. Everybody
knows that a good' cough and influenza remedy consists
of two main sections:
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients;
and the second is, of course, the necessary water and
sweetening. The preparation of the medicinal ingredients
requires trained knowledge, but the water and sweetening
can be added in the home just as easily as in the phar-
macy. And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now,
prove these facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a
jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either
treacle or honey, two of vinegar and a large breakfast-
cupful of warm water. Stir till dissolved, and when the
syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle and then add
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained
from your chemist or store. By doing this you will have a
family supply equal in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-mixed cough
remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would cost up
to £l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO is the fact
that it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and
over 12,000 people have written letters proclaiming it
the best remedy they have ever used for quickly banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
Miss Josephine Trix,
the beautiful Tivoli Celebrity
Vaudeville Star, playing at the
Theatre Royal, writes:—
“No singer should be without a
supply of HEENZO, the finest
remedy known for banishing coughs
and colds.”
DFG
should be used in every home.
N.B.—When you want the best chest and throat jubes, ask for
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS.
DON’T
SUFFER
another
day
with
NERVES
NEURITIS
INSOMNIA
ANAEMIA
FATIGUE
and other ailments caused
by overwork, worry, ex-
hausted nerves and poorness
of blood
It’s so easy to get well when
you take
HEAN’S
TONIC
NERVE
NUTS
They cost 3/- per bottle
containing 12 days’ supply.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s 9 feulUtCa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from,
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
i* 0
t*K
?n
:
5 e
s e
3'
i\e
S'
sr
•* «* «l»
o*MV
S V.aV


ê
