

PRINK MORE
X
V
&
in
&
■w
1 mm
mm
K
m
j
Its good for you /
Brewed under perfect hygienic conditions in your own State
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S
The Bulletin
As&Owl, $ 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2750.
Wednesday, October 28, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
atHOttE
llm Book FREE to YOUI
— SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send, without obligation, your New
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 04
My Name
l iy Address .....................
S.B. 232
MANUSCRIPTS FOR
PUBLICATION
jQURING his six-months’ stay in Aus-
tralia Mr. D. P, McGuire will read
manuscripts and advise on placing them.
• J^ r : c^u^re h as published four novels
m England during the last 18 months; he
has contributed to many of the leading
rnglish periodicals; and he has an intimate
knowledge of the present requirements and
conditions of the London market. Mr.
McGuire is in direct contact with agents
and publishers, and will undertake that all
manuscripts that he regards as suitable will
be read and considered in London. Every
manuscript will receive full (and frank)
criticism, and recommendations and sug-
gestions of a practical kind,
address ed at the bookshop of
MESSRS F. & SONS, King
William Street, Adelaide.
win
IBuipiEavl) €ir
IRC
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
!LXTnulf ked P?P ularit y in city and
W t ldespr i ead distribution
mat is the desideratum of merchants anrt
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will <- e t
you results. It i s read bv all classes JSj
wa r nrß Ularly by yoUns ' carried folßs, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
ZSS&M Position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc, from y
yo o'*. R ? BT - JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 81522
m
&
j
How Disfiguring!
PIMPUES and blotches will mar the
beauty of any complexion, no matter
how lovely it may be otherwise. They
are so unnecessary, too, when regular
daily use of Cutieura Soap,
assisted by Cutieura Ointment,
will keep the skin clear and healthy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
’ ARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ON
BANK
T SforpSa l id E J I Kf ( L th NI ?’ National bank, limited.
Directors—James th ® Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
-James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
*• E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., dILG. *
headoffice agek “ m - g ‘ haymen -
bran h che? C “ Queensland Territ ° r ySydney, and 96
through *he leading Banking Rlvers >. N - s - Wales, also representation
Bank oilers the fulfe«t flc nfil / 1 coven P g Australasia and the World, this
iM facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
rbe T °^ r .Complete
o cal Oathedial Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
I |Yj g,/ O
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. by Restaurant „ ot ? m j n ”~ Bi h 2, ur ?’ non-stop run.
TOUR BY- THE LONDON AND* NORTH-E^STFR^iTrfwfv* rv? a °° n ’ ®°°kstall on the train.
Apply for full Jar&nl FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
BURNS, PHILP &CO LTD 7 £ * pamphlets to
?u^Ar^ ey ’ and Branches -
to
ADA
sdf
FIRST CLASS PAA
RETURN 3L&U
CABIN CLASS r 7A
RETURN dt/U
Usual fares £125/10/- and £87 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER—
Via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by the
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada or
U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
Full particulars from.
and Union Lines
j**? George Street, Sydney
59 William Street* Melbourne
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Relative Horrors of War
JY^? b Sw ° f the .A IF - often asked in
■trance, Were conditions worse on Galli-
po.i or here? Thousands still argue as
| Q whether soldiers suffered more in ' the
world-war than in previous wars. Non-
combatants and staff officers fared as badly
and ran practically the same risks as front-
hners on Galhpoh; they lived luxuriously in
trance, koul diseases were rife on Gallipoli,
but there were no bombing-’planes, gas,
tanks or super-heavy artillery; there were
periods of rest and safety in France, none on
Gallipoli * the food was good in France,
awful on Gallipoli... .and so on. The books
reviewed below give a fair idea between
them of the risks and hardships endured by
fighting soldiers (1) m Portugal 100 years
ago, (2) on Gallipoli from the Landing on-
wards, (3} m France from Pozieres to the
Armistice. They also give vivid and drama-
tically contrasting pictures of the best kind
of twentieth-century Australian and nine-
teenth-century British shock troops, and
of the terrains they fought over.
Dinkum Diggers
The defect of Hell’s Bells and Made-
moiselles, by Lieut. J. Maxwell, V.C., M.C
and Bar, D C.M. (Augus and Robertson:
Ibe Royeroft, Sydney, 65.), is its all too
beautiful writing. Some of the purple pass-
ages might have been lifted from a stunt
newspaper.
What memories flood back! Memories
of Sister Street,” Alexandria, where the
sensuous odalisques from a dozen nations
hawked their charms. Hard-bitten and
raucous, silky-woiced and seductive, languor-
°us as a purring cat, deceptive, powdered
and dissipated, decked out in blazonries like
some lithe tiger moving in the gloom.
A Shed-hole i s supposed to remind the
youthful ex-apprentice of a Cyclopean eye*
when lights go out his camp is plunged in
btygian gloom; the journey to the line
from Marseilles is an Odyssey; an evening
in Bailleul is Elysium, and so is a visit to
an estammet near Erquighem (also referred
to as ‘these Elysian fields”), and when he
takes a girl from another estaminet out for
the day he is reminded of “the chance that
came to Sir Galahad and Sir Launcelot.” In
spite of this fustian, which has the disas-
trous effect at times of presenting the heroic
narrator as a low-comedy pundit moving
polysyllabically among a ribald crowd of
Gipger Micks, the book is full of racy
humor and brilliant portraits. A dear pic-
ture of Maxwell gradually emerges from the
miasma of classical chestnuts. He was only
18 when he enlisted in Sydney in 1914.
There could have been no braver man in
any of the armies, and, like Murray, Jacka
and most of the other V.C.s, he was also a
born fighter. His C. 0., Lieut.-Colonel
Murphy, C.M.G., D. 5.0., remarks in a fore-
word that “he was more than a 1 handful
behind the line.”
In the presence of the enemy, however,
lie became a different personage. On the
several occasions that I accompanied hhn
on patrol I marked an utter change the
moment he stepped over the sandbags into
j\o Man s Land. I had an uncanny feeling
ot being accompanied by a descendant of the
Redskins of North America. To Maxwell
patrolling No Man s Land was as a chess
pyoblem; he balanced the objectives to be
attained against the risks to be run, and as
the scales tipped so he acted.
Some of his deeds read like Ouidaesque
fiction. Such men were the real battle-
winners not so much for what they did in-
dividually, great though it was, as for the
spirit they inspired in others. Maxwell
may not have been the most valuable o!
those to whom Australia owes its prestige
as & fighting nation, but he was very near
it. Oddly enough, the outstanding character
m this book is not Maxwell, but his friend
Doherty. The writer has no hesitation in
classing Doherty, for humor, humanity and
unexpectedness, with any of Shakspeare’s
humble campaigners. At one stage of his
front-line career he came across a book on
the Spanish Armada and acquired the airs
of an admiral.
He was here, there and everywhere, bark-
ing orders to imaginary »a.val ratings on an
imaginary quarter-deck.
“Well, lads, war is war. Remember little
Belgium. Britannia rules the waves and
long live Ned Kelly.”
, Five minutes before the usual hour of
strafe” Doherty in a voice of thunder bel-
lowed Clear the ship for action.” At that
mqmept the corrugated iron would be flung
aside with a crash. Every man with ten
rounds jambed in
his rifle magazine
would spring to the
firestep. Doherty
would sweep No
Man’s Land with
his “telescope” (an
entrenching-tool handle).
Stand by to charge torpedoes!” was his
stock order. “Send for 'Gunnery Jack.’
the twelve-inch guns with ‘Sockite.’
Eire!”
Many of his sayings are unforgettable. Take
this, made under severe fire near Passehen-
daele in 1917.
‘•Sometimes J feel a s though I would like
to pray. But that is only during a stunt
like this; and to a man who lives a life
like mine—-w r ell, I have a bit of guts, an’
dont like thrustin’ meSelf on the Lord only
w aen I have a n axe to grind.”
The best things in the book are in the parts
dealing with front-line life; several are
flashlights which show up a speaker’s whole
nature. Shorn of its affectations and false
sentiment this would have been a work of
art; even with them it is far the best pic-
ture of the A.I.F. infantry that has been
done.
A Rifleman Under Wellington
/tu S VForester’s Death to the French
La ne. Bs.) tells how Rifleman
Matthew Dodd was cut off from his regi-
ment during the retreat to the lines of
iorres Vedras, and found it again months
later. Dodd is only like Maxwell in courage
and loyalty to his cause. He could never
have risen from the ranks. He is the per-
fect British regular, deferential to his
superiors obedient to a. fault, sober, self-
controlled—some of the results of five years
m _ what is now the Rifle Brigade. ■ The
original Thomas Atkins fought in the Pen-
insula wars; there is a story that Welling-
ton chose the name because it belonged to
the best soldier he ever knew, and that
soMier must have been very like Dodd.
Dodd is slow on the up-take. He ends his
adventures by burning a bridge which the
french were on the point of burning to
save themselves from the pursuing British,
iet he is no fool;, a fool would have died
in his place. His first concern is to evade
the French.
Each French soldier carried eight hard
flat cakes, irregularly square, strung on a
cord through holes in the middle, for all
wi T° r d h ? nese coins. The likeness
had been noticed in the French Army, and
these cakes were always alluded to as
cash Each weighed one pound, and re-
presented a day’s rations. A French general
considered he had done his duty by his men
if he issued one pound of this flinty bread
Decfe?^ anj ; e l se they nee< ) e d he ex-
them to gain from the countryside.
Dodd’s rations were no better; but then
he had never known what good food was
not once in all his life.” The Portuguese
+! 6 i P r-K .° n h J S wan derings; they admire
the skilful and ruthless way he shoots
French soldiers. They take him to a posi-
tion from which he can see a French bat-
talion. The troops are picking nettles and
other weeds to eke out their miserable diet
and burying corpses.
nf^a com P an j<ms explained the nature
of the disease to him, with a vivid explana-
tory pantomime, and Dodd nodded grimly
There was not a soldier alive who did not
know a great deal about dysentery.
At last he gets back to his unit. As he
sits and munches bread—much the same
bread, as the French eat—he notices a fire.
i tho PortugUes e] were burning
k f wS I' rj , d ' arh - Dodd did not
know. What he did know was that he had
borrows an ° ? . la lot of salt from Eccles
mnn^L? ed ] US bread 111 luxuriously and
nunched and munched and munched.
* danger ’ merciless discipline,
ra * lo ns, no relaxations (Dodd
fought through Vimiera, Corunna, Flushing
Talavera and Busaco without a leave)
every kind of disease in a country where
kfbp p 6re - n °i llospitals or ey en medicine
7~ the Peninsula our men knew must haw
been Heaven m many respects beside th
Sakned Wellington’s troops cam-
p gned. But the. difference between nine-
cornfnrt tw< : ntieth -century standards of
rhffiu make comparisons more
difficult. Death to the French” is a fine
piece of work. However, it has only one
character of importance, Dodd. He is a
masterpiece, but there are at least three as
S&S® 1 «*.
RED PAGE.
King Jolly
The public never hears the truth about
kmg S during their lifetime, or ra ?e
while they are serving in an officlaf cap!
acity. Some of the truth about tv- ; .J?
■ Lenm is beginning to creen iV*.-
raphies, but Czar StalT : r
for the Devil to one-half the world",' ' ;)0PU I
lation, and for an archangel to the other
(Red Page continued on page t>.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —An Assurance of Good Faith .
“THE SENIOR STORE"
w: -
n
r
&
■*m
B
j^r
5^
cr so
W*
«
L^\)
y
s'
cx
s*
*
n
m
vmi
m
g
mm
l A
1^
< V
■
Slill
-3
■p
H
Sfr
*<#£
:? *«8«KS:
Hi
Si
I ■ :;
I
m
HI
llill
ms
■
c
a
HOW IT WORKS
FUMEa
ICE FROM HEAT
A cylindrical vessel called the FREEZING
TANK is suspended inside cabinet by a st'out
pipe connected to a CHEMICAL CON-
TAINER, which in turn is suspended outside
the cabinet, as shown in the above illustration.
Heat Unit with Primus Supplied
Each morning the unit is lifted out by means
of a special handle provided and heated up
in accordance with instructions supplied with
each machine.
COSTS ONLY lid. PER DAY
This is a very simple operation, and can be
done at a trifling cost of 1 per day for
kerosene. When replaced in position the
Freezing Unit is coated with a clean WHITE
FROST, which rapidly lowers the tempera-
ture of the air in the cabinet, and without
any attention whatever this temperature is
maintained for a period of 24 hours.
It is no trouble to heat up the unit. . . .
anyone can attend it. There is nothing to
snoil and nothing to get out of order.
Anthony Horderns
SELF-FREEZING
REFRIGERATOR
makes its own ice cubes
Here is the greatest revelation of modern times
to country homes!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Self-freezing Refrigerators.
A simple, scientifically-controlled Ice Chest for
£3610-
This non-mechanical refrigerator is a most important step in the
of cooling science— actually producing ICE from heat,
and COSTS LESS TO RUN FOR ONE WEEK THAN ONE BLOCK
R F does E not require machinery to run it. and is positively invaluable
cL-t M ABSOLUTELY
CORROSION.... OR WEAR.... NO MOVING PARTS.... NO
RENEWALS. , . ~ ,
Ice is provided in tray containing 1 4 sparkling cubes, and ice drinks,
ciTisp vegetables, firm, wholesome meats and dainty frozen dishes are
immediately available.
Constructed of selected timber, the cabinet is provided with ample
insulation, to guarantee effective refrigeration, and has a poi*celain
enamel interior, with removable .wire shelves to facilitate cleaning.
It is 33 inches long, 26| inches wide and 264 inches high.
It is only necessary every 24 hours to remove unit from cabinet,
heat with primus supplied and replace, when efficient refrigeration is
obtained, with temperatures varying from 32 degrees Fahrenhei .
An instruction card is sent with each refriger-
ator, and it is possible to instal, and have in
working order, within 24 hours of delivery,
£36/1 0/-
Supplied complete with Primus and Cooling Tank.
DISREGARDING theHEAT
m
w
\\ s
sn
P,u
Cool on the Hottest Day
Just think of it I Cool drinks, fresh vegetables,
delightful savories on the hottest of day 3
and it matters not where you live. You
can completely disregard the temperature
when thinking of your culinary comfort.
There’s Room for Everything
There is a storage capacity of five cubic
feet, sufficient to hold a whole carcase of
mutton cut into joints, half a box of butter
as well as milk and other necessities.
It’s Superior to an Ice-chest
Far superior to an ordinary Ice Chest, be-
cause it gives a dry frosty cold—free from
all traces of moisture thereby keeping food-
stuffs in a beautifully fresh and appetising
condition
A Boon to Many
Every Home, Hotel, Cafe, Shop, Hospital,
etc., should have one, as it docs not depend
on either ice supply or electricity for its
operation.
FROM
CHILCOTT REFRIGERATORS
Made in our Redfern Factory.
Non-spillable Water-container given Free with every “Chilcott” Refrigerator.
No. 50. Oak, medium golden finish. Ice
and Provision Chambers galvanised steel.
One shelf.
Overall Sizes
Provision Chamber
Price . . 97/6
No. 5 1. —As No
Overall Sizes ...
Provision Chamber
Price, £5/15/-
No. 52.—As No
Overall Sizes
Provision Chamber
Price, £6/17/6
Width. Height. Depth.
20iin. 39in. loMn.
„ 16in. Win. Win.
Porcelain lined . . £6/15/-
. 50, but two shelves.
Width. Height. Depth.
23in. 41in. 18in.
18in. 18in. 13Mn.
Porcelain lined, £ 7/15/-
. 51, but larger.
Width. Height. Depth.
24in. 43 Mn. 17Mn.
20in. l!)in. 14in.
Porcelain lined, £B/17/6
Model No. G.—Chilcott Refrigerator,
of Oak, medium golden finish. Ice
and Provision Chambers lined heavy-
gauge galvanised steel, fitted extra
strong Ice Tray and Wire Shelves.
Width. Height. Depth.
Overall Sizes 48in. 53in. 22^in.
Ice Chamber 35in. lOin.
Provision „ 40in. 29in. 16in.
Price £2B/10/-
(Ice Chests —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
£2BllO/
Horderns
’Phone: M 2401.


STOP!
QUICK!!
Can you do it~ ?
THE time will come when you’ll
need to stop your car and stop it QUICK!
Better put on Goodyear Tyres now and
be ready for that time.
The strong, thick, deep-cut blocks of
the All-Weather Tread bite down to
solid footing—and GRIP! Their hold-
fast traction means SAFETY in extreme
degree, despite road conditions.
Goodyear Tyres, today, are better in non-
skid tread wear, 35%. They’re better,
too, in mileage an average of 30%.
For mental ease and sure-footed safety,
put on Goodyears. You’ll get longer
wear, more comfort, greater ecomony.
THEY COST NO MORE. So, naturally,
"MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR
TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE.”
m
■n
111
II
s'? :
w
%
k
u
i
s
BE
ISP
■
■
IP
am
Mm
■■
■■
MU
BUILT WITH
CORD
£££32^


80,000 PEOPLE HAVE READ
THIS AMAZIHC BOOK!
il
I
i
1
a
1
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director .
Founder of Health & Physical Culture” Magazine .
Astounding- Genuine Proof!
7 Inches Gain Around Chest
“Since taking: the course my measurements are
now: Chest 39in., increase of 7in,; neck 144 m.;
weight Bst. 91b., now lOst. 51b ; and an increase
of 2in. on the forearms.” —D. Noonan, S., N.S.W.
Gains 6 Inches Around Chest
“I have gained 6 inches around the chest, l*in.
biceps, lin. forearms, 2in. thigh, ljin. calves, and
many more splendid improvements. I am delighted
with my muscular neck, now 15|in., a gam ot
2 iin.”— W. D. Whitefleld, 8., Q’land.
“A few lines to say that I am getting on
famously. Never felt better in my life, and nave
managed the exercises so far without any bother.
Have practically left off smoking—-used to be a
heavy smoker—and my general health is perfect.
Your Excelding system is all you claim it to be.
T A Thndsen. R., N.Z.
PAST the 80,000 mark, and still going
strong! If you would read some-
thing that would stir your very
vitals —if you would learn something the
like of which you had never even
dreamed! Then send for this book and
read how YOU can charge your body
full of vitality, add five inches to your
chest, acquire the power of battering
rams in your arms, and develop a neck
and legs like pillars! It’s all here in this
very book explained in detail, and you II
agree, like thousands of others have, that
it’s the most amazing book you have
ever seen.
WATCH THEM TURN
AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow
who carries himself with head up. Notice
how the broad-shouldered man always gets
their eye. They want a dependable he-man,
when they make' choice-one wibo can
protect them. AND YOU CAN BE THAT
MAN. Remember, I do not only promise it. I
aii A RAN TEE IT. Now, don t put it off a
minute. Get going to new happiness, and
real manhood, to-day!
YOURS FREE IF YOU
SEND NOW!
THIS month, to every reader of this papei
who is interested—here’s my offer: To
prove to yon what I have said about the
‘‘Secrets of Muscular Strengthand How to
Acnuire It.” I am going to give ONE IKEi.
ISSUE providing you make application at
once. This book has been the cause of
rh-mains: the lives of thousands of men. I
have received countless thousands of wonder-
ful letters and photographs of actual trans-
formation of men who never thought they
could 1 acquire strength and development!
Make 1 me PROVE these assertions to you by
fm- jour copy tbi.
morrow, you may be too late, but to clay
NOW! Are you ready? Lets go.
HOW TO ACQUIRE
M U SCU GTH
DEV
\
ISOO FREE BOOKS ~IF YOU SEND NOW/
ds
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L,
107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please semi me absolutely FRET
a copy of your latest book, “The Secrets of
Muscular Strength—And How to Acquire It.
I enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
Name
Full Address
26/10/’32.
half Caesar Mussolini remains a mystery
to everybody but his immediate subordi-
nates who for obvious reasons keep silent,
and Sultan Hoover is extant in two por-
traits, one Republican and the other
Democratic and both fictions. In another
hundred years, no doubt, the portraits of al
these gentlemen will be drawn more or less
veraciously, if they are considered worth it,
and the results ought to be as entrancing as
Jovial King, by F. M. Kircheisen (Elkm
Matthews and Marrot; 12s. 6d. net).
The subject of this biography is Jerome
Bonaparte, but as much light is thrown on
Napoleon as on his irresponsible relative.
The gloomy egotist who subjected Europe
had only one self-forgetting passion—his
almost doting affection for the youthful
Jerome, in whom he no doubt recognised, the
o-host of his own boyhood. Jerome recipro-
cated by wholehearted flattery, which
Napoleon never got from his mother, who
didn’t believe in the permanence of his
greatness. When he sent her money she
used to put it in a sock, as she thought it
might be useful “when everything was
over.” Jerome was handsome, elegant,
generous, thoughtless, unambitious, life-
loving and fond of women—in short, every-
thing that the Emperor wasn’t. At 16 he
became a midshipman and twisted his
admiral round his finger. He gained rapid
promotion, but the uniform he affected
was always one step ahead of his official
rank, much to the disgust of his brother,
who was a stickler for etiquette. When war
broke out with Britain Jerome was ordered
back to France but, instead, turned up at
Washington, where he found American girls
much to his liking. At 19, despite frenzied
opposition, he married Elizabeth Patterson,
a merchant’s daughter, and the wedding was
magnificent, the expenses being defrayed
out of his own pocket by the French Am-
bassador.
Napoleon, who was already planning
his shoddy imitation of the old mon-
archical system, declared the marriage
invalid when Jerome turned up with his
bride at a Spanish port. The youth had,
however, only to throw himself at his
brother’s feet to be forgiven. Mrs. Jerome
went back to America, and her ex-husband
was made imperial prince and given
command of an army corps. A Royal mar-
riage followed. The King of Wurtemburg
was in the market with his plain, stout
daughter Caroline. The gutters of Paris ran
red with wine on the occasion of the wed-
ding, and Jerome and his bride were set on the
throne of the specially-created kingdom of
Westphalia. Westphalia was formed from a
number of German principalities whose
kings and grand dukes Napoleon had
knocked sideways in battle. Jerome turned
Cassel, a city of 30,000, into the most
luxurious capital in Europe. He gave grand
soirees and grand fireworks displays, and had
92 State carriages and _ innumerable
equerries, chamberlains and ministers. Busi-
ness boomed, and when the palace was
burned down the townsfolk offered to re-
build it at a cost of 800,000 francs in order
to keep the Royal spendthrift on the
premises. Half the German nobility kept
their daughters at home to save them from
Jerome, and the other half packed them
off to Court in the hope that they would
catch his eye. Jerome had so many mis-
tresses simultaneously that it was nothing
for him to go on tour with a retinue of
100 carriages, packed with his harem and
their belongings. His Queen failed for a
long time to provide him with a child, but
he had numerous natural offspring whose
mothers were always assured of generous
treatment, for Jerome was never niggardly
with the Westphalian revenues, which
seldom amounted to half the annual budget.
As a ruler Jerome showed a natural
sense of justice and a good deal of jovial
commonsense, unlike his humorless brother,
with his passion for legalism and inter-
ference. As a diplomat King Jolly fell short
of contemporary standards. While hard-
headed Napoleon and the fantastically-
idealistic Alexander of Russia were dis-
cussing at Erfurt ways and means of divid-
ing up the world between them, the King
was going round with his chamberlains ring-
ing people’s doorbells. As a soldier Jerome
failed to distinguish himself, except at
Waterloo, where he conducted the attack
on Hougomont with great courtage. He was
incorrigibly frivolous, but since he was
without ambition and had a profound dis-
taste for killing people there was nothing
else for him to be under the circumstances.
It seemed to him silly to seek fame by
winning battles when the Court panegy-
rists could win them for him. He was in
the position of the son of a commercially-
minded man who has enjoyed himself
making money and expects his son to find
the same pleasure in keeping it. Jerome
had no real affection for absolute monarch-
ism. He died at 75, a kindly and sympa-
thetic old gentleman, and was buried under
the dome of the Invalides. He didn’t do
much good; on the other hand he did far
less harm than Napoleon. It is difficult
fo say which did more to discredit the
King business.
M.G.S.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re conti bu
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
•
Tolla W.: It’s not only what people write
about that matters; hoiv they write matters, t 00....
A.S.K.: Feeling, but no expression... .H.T.F.: No
thought; just a tinkle T.E.L.: Enough in it to
command a second reading; hut it is too rough-
hewn R.D.E.: If “Poetaster” is a first attempt
it is amazingly good. But the third line in the
sestet jars. .. .E.M.G.: You don’t get the effect....
M.M.M.: Talent overlaid with sentimentality
Dodger: But you hit the basket all right Isobel
F.: Run the plane over it... .M.C.8.: Sorry, we
can see no promise in it... .L.V.E.: Sickly sweet....
Velveteen: But the end shouldn’t announce itself
with a brass band like that... . A.G.S. (M.L.) :We
don’t reprint G.L.K.: Slight; but there’s a gleam
in it.... Enquirer: Of world trade (that is, trade
by countries with other countries) Australasia does
slightly under 3 p.c. of the total; European countries
do about 55 p.c., North America 16 p.c., Asia 13 p.c.
... .Wilalu: Good enough album verses.-Dorothea:
Not much merit in the performance, though somehow
it does manage to convey atmosphere... .L.D.S.: But
no £ s. d. It lacks music, for one thing....
Keith W.: Very mixed performance. Some of the
lines are excellent. ... J. 1.: Attempts to graft heathen
mythology on to the Australian seasons rarely strike
this paper as convincing... .A.R.R.: “Sunset years,”
“fragrant memories”- —they’ve been in so many
garlands. .. ,M*M.: Music in it; but the phrasing
won’t do. F’rinstance, “I am hemmed in girth a
gnat would wear too tight”... .W.M.8.L.: Dong and
labored D.G.S.: Poorly handled; try a simpler
subject.... Geoffrey P.: The first verse kills it. But
it has a charm Y.T.M.: Yes, but our beat takes
in a whole continent, and lots of things happen on
it that have to be missed. .. .E.J.S.: There’s thought
in it; but it is over-long and the lines are without
glamor Dorothy H.: We expect you to do better.
.W.M.C.: It makes some painful descents into
prose A.L.D.: Not far away. Last line of “Mer-
maids” is weak Pinetop: The answer has a not
in it, too P.M.: There’s material for a good essay
in it; as verse it’s deplorable... .Jacaranda: Stale
as it’s flat E.L.D.: Thanks, but its interest is of
the faintest F.S.: Spun out too long for times
like these Q. I. Bono: Drones along depressingly,
with never an arresting line or a well-tuned thought.
.... A.P.: And a wild and woolly song it is. Not
until you are well up Parnassus can you afford to
ignore metrical conventions, as you do A.W.:
Sorry not suitable. We wish you better luck....
E.K.: Has atmosphere ; but that track is worn in ruts.
.!. .N.M.: Gall again L.C.P.: Some good lines
marred by infelicitous expressions M.G.L.: You
flopped on the second verse Penelope: You haven t
got the form quite right Maxie: Look up any
reputable dictionary (Chambers’s “Twentieth Cen-
tury” is easily available) and you will find ‘ hopples
is merely a variation of “hobbles,” the older form.
“Copi” or “kopi” or “kopai” is an abo. word and,
as black brother had no written language, there is
no fixed spelling....S.M.G.: So many have solutions
of the problem that we can’t spare any one of them
space for more than about 300 words Dorian M.:
Very smoothly done. But it’s been done so often.
C.C.M.: Well done; but it merely repeats old
thoughts.. .P.A.D. (Neweastle-on-Tyne) : “Unsuitable
by reason of its broadness?” Correct M.K.: Feeble
to the point of fatuousness R.A.F.: Our heart
■warms to you and your almost uncanny prevision:
To my mind there can be nothing worse
To shatter nerves and make one curse,
Than to have to plough your way through the verse
That flows into The. Bulletin
In one long continual stream.
H.C.: It isn’t a flight, it’s a crawl.... J.C.:
Machine-made rhyme; no spontaneity in it Bozo:
Slav first our syncopated daughters
Tripping to their spirituous quarters.
Leaving our daughters let’s pulverise males,
Ignis fatuus brutes Satan retails.
Sounds almost obscure enough for the Sitwell school
of poets Dorset: Apt enough, but over-trivial....
E.S.: Began promisingly, ended anyhow D.A.S.:
It might have scored in any medium but free verse.
. ...B.B.: And blanky toad it is. Also, W. T.
Goodge was there 30 years before you... .A.L.D..
Why worry us with American reprint?... .W.G.C.C. :
Not even a nip of metho Bushy Bill: Spasm is
the right word for it... .E.W.K.: The only out-
standing thing about them is their sheer inanity.
A.J.C.: It may be all true, but that doesn’t
make readable jing'le of it... Sarge: If there were
a prize for laying on butter by the shovelful, you
might stand a chance, out your verse is only tenth-
rate A. Delver: You need to send your banjo in
a bit deeper Scribbler: You make very hard
going of it J.R.: Faults? Well, if the man was
mean, the verse is meaner. .. .J.0.C.: A jumble of
ill-arranged metaphors with here and there a lapse
into bathos. Tune your lyre a bit lower. .. .0.F.:
Mineral wealth untold is waiting
Its discovery by man
Out where kangaroos are waiting,
Out where extinct rivers ran.
Maybe, but there are no bays waiting for you
R.J.F.: You strum your lyre with the minimum of
success on caterpillars. Try something
...F.E.R.: “Tout ensemble” rhymed with “grumble”
—come, come! 1.P.: If that’s verse, a telephone
directory is full of unsuspected poetry H.D.:
Ribald Le G.: Too slender a peg and you’re none
too dexterous a rhymer... .R.M.8.: Awful is a mild
word for it. And there’s no stamp for the return
fare Don Beer: Grave or gay, you make a medi-
ocre fist of it. .. .R.G.H.: The refrain cant carry.the
dead weight you load on it....T.0.: Verse reminds
us strongly of that declaimed by Bottom and his
mates in “Midsummer Night’s Dream”... .J.8.L.: We
wouldn’t hurl such sad doggerel at visiting cricketers.
A.M.: You don’t know if the stuff you submit
“is good, bad, indifferent or just plain crook.”
Then your case is hopeless W. 8.: Glad to hear
from you; it revives memories of many an old-
timer The D.: There’s a lilt in it, but you
make heavy going of the refrain.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.A.: You haven’t far to go; keep on C.W.:
Where do your Hebrews get those funny hats?....
R.H.: Gags and drawings alike vile... .S.D.: Cul-
tivate a firmer line and stop cross-hatching... .L.S..
Like the style, but it calls for sounder draughts-,
manship J.S.: Promising F.L.H.: There’s
humor in it, but every line has to be perfect in
that style of thing D.M.: Drawing all right; je t
has whiskers a yard long.
The Chris Brennan Era
J.D.’s note on Christopher Brennan, with
the excellent drawing by David Low (B.
12/10/’32), takes me back to the time when
I used to meet Brennan at the Casuals’
Club. He was the Dr. Johnson of the club,
with a .difference; profound in learning,
but carrying it lightly; often provocative
in statement and suggestion, yet most
kindly; a poet inspired and sensitive with a
protective shell of nonchalance. To know
his early poems at their best I think one
should read them as they appeared in The
Bulletin and in the original “XXI Poems:
Towards the Source.” The Brennan of
later years did not improve them in revision
for the collective edition.
Good talk was certain always when the
Casuals met, and Brennan was the best of
talkers. Bertram Stevens engaged him many
times in discussions that tended to become
heated, especially on such matters as the
merits of Baudelaire. There would be an
occasional quietly penetrative remark from
John Quinn. Subtle comment would come
from John Le Gay Brereton, and gleams of
inspired commonsense and humorous remi-
niscence from Julian Ashton. Arthur Adams,
then active in the writing of novels and
plays, also contributed ideas on his special
subjects.
There was the fine, scholarly and legal
brain of H. S. Nicholas, now a N.S.W.
M.L.C.; and the future Duntroon professor
Leslie Allen, disdaining some flippancy of
the moment, would introduce a serious
note. Irwin Ormsby, a poet disguised as a
business man, was'rich in knowledge and
ideas (I have noticed some of his youthful
“Zadig” verses revived in “As We Said
Before”). Lionel Lindsay, a fine rapid talker,
was deeply interested in books as well as in
many phases of art; the kindly Dowell
O’Reilly had some humorous observation
of life to record; and Sid Long, Norman
Gough/Harry Weston and D. H. Souter
contributed quaint and illuminative com-
ment. Others were of the brotherhood —
there was no president, but every member
was a vice-president—<and among many
guests I remember were Douglas Fry (the
painter of horses), Norman Lindsay, Sid
Smith, Tom Mutch, W. A. Holman, David
McKee Wright and Howard Ashton, who
at that time was in Melbourne journalism.
For some time the Trocadero in Castle-
reagh-street was used, but its walls disap-
peared to make way for the new Usher’s
Hotel. So did the building alongside in
which, for four years, .1 occupied the top
floor. On that old top floor there had
been many after-dinner gatherings of the
Casuals, as there had been in various other
city haunts of members, and especially in
the Society of. Artists’ spacious rooms in the
Queen Victoria Markets building. There
Julian Ashton presided, among antique casts
familiar to students, or, at exhibition time,
amid the new paintings of a- period in which
J. J. Hilder was beginning to astonish
seekers of pictures.
Why recall it all? Well, to misquote
slightly:—
Many a green isle needs must be
In the wide sea oj memory,
and the memory of those days and of the
good friends is one of the islands ever
fresh. “We know what we are, but we
know not what we may be.” Much has
happened since; many have gone, some
after tragic ordeal; but the essential good
of fine souls, however sorely tested, stays
with us. Golden lines of Chris Brennan’s
poems I remember often; and Chris.
Y.
National Song Judges
Entries in the National Song Competition
—words only at present—will close at The
Bulletin office on November'l6; and at
the earliest moment after that date the
judges will get to work. Three of them have
been appointed—Professor Brereton; Dr.
Arundel Orchard, Director of the N. S.
Wales Conservatorium of Music; and Mr.
Ross Thomas, Director of Education in
N. S. Wales. Mr. J. Mcßae, Acting-
Director of Education in Victoria, has
agreed to stand by ready to assist in any
way—Mr. Mcßae has taken the most active
part in promoting this competition.
The first prize is £25 and the second
£10; and there will be five consolation
prizes of £1 each. The competition is
free. Any further information about con-
ditions, etc., can be got from The Bulletin
office.
And a Little Verse
THE GARDEN.
The ail- is full of quiet things—_
Soft little shadow-forms that bring
The cool, swift stir of homing wings;
The scent of flowers, and the rain
That softly ebbs and flows again,
And the Grey Moth of evening.
And, oh, my heart is still, so still!
Still as a garden, when the flight
Of snow-wings fills the air, until
All things are wrapped in quiet. There
Is peace singing in the high air,
And glory, as a shining light.
VICTORIA.
M. WELLS.
THE GIRL DESPAIRS.
Am I in trust who hold my virgin heart
Against the day my knight m splendor
reins , , , ,
His steed, and breaks my bounden hands
apart,
To watch, and wait, and hope—and lose
in chains?
Am I, who would go to the pit of Hell
For love of him who never comes (O
star!), . , .
To beat my breast and break in this dull
Wherein I writhe, yet see the light afar?
Shall I, with ache and drear despair,
Behold my flame of youth go dim
In failing fight with Time unfair,
Then, weeping, pass my wasted Lamp to
Him?
QUEENSLAND.
R. W. ADENEY.


fds
• «• ,
■
f ■
| jjjgjg
■■H
tttflk
m
S3g| *'£y
gf
I 1 I
5?
niMt^*U3a»
FINE OLD pale
mmm
r<
:
n Hi
m
■■■ I ■ ■
:
> iZSllir • •:
B
V -i.
MSI
i
V- r
i:X V, <*
5
-■
. \
v ' r
*s4jj
Hi
x*s
:>"
: ■
'*<k


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2750.
October 26, 1933.
ACTION! MORE ACTION!
DESPAIR: “Give up—this forest has no end!”
PROGRESS: “Fool, to cease moving is to die! The end is reached by pushing on.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
• months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
* months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL SONG.
Prizes of £25, £lO and five of £1 are
offered for words only.
Competition Closes at “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, November 16.
IS THERE ROOM NOW FOR A
COUNTRY PARTY?
It was Tim Healy who showed how a
Third Party could be made powerful far
beyond its numbers: that was in 1885, when
he drafted the Home ftule pledge. Six
years later, when the Parliamentary Labor
party was born in N. S. Wales, it followed
the track Tim Healy had blazed, and called
upon its members to sign a compact “to
vote as a majority of the party may agree
on all occasions considered of such import-
ance as to necessitate party deliberation.”
Almost at once this was altered to require
members to vote as the majority might
decide on questions affecting the fate of a
Ministry. This amendment put into force
what had been declared to be the
of the party from the veiy beginning—
“ Support in return for concessions.” In
that first Parliament in N. S. Wales Parkes
had 49 followers, Dibbs 51, Labor 36. The
new party as a party had no more affection
for Parkes than for .Dibbs. “Labor has come
into politics,” said George Black, stating
its position, “to support neither Freetrade
nor Protection, but the Ministry which will
give us what we want.” For 20 years the
party held to that policy—it and every
other Labor party in Australia—on the
whole with results greater even than its
founders could have hoped for. Ministerial
lemon after lemon was squeezed dry and
thrown away.
By 1910 Labor had ceased everywhere in
Australia to be a third party; in the Federal
Parliament as in the States, it had become
one of the two great parties. When this
stage was reached it was almost inevitable
that some section of the community would
remember the extraordinary success of the
Labor party in its early years; and it was in
these circumstances that the Country party
was formed. Its position, it is true, was not
quite the same as that of the first Labor
party. Whether it supported Labor or
Labor’s principal opponent was not a
matter of complete indifference to some of
its members. It was driven therefore to
modify the “support in return for conces-
sions” policy of Labor. In the last resort
it might be driven to give a vote for Labor;
but for the most part it preferred to make
a working agreement with Labor’s principal
political opponent, and use its solidarity for
the purpose of exerting a greater influence
upon the policy of the coalition than it
could possibly have otherwise. In some
parliaments—that of N. S. Wales, for
example—the two parties have worked
together with very little friction. Else-
where—in the Federal Parliament, for ex-
ample—the position has been far less
happy. After the last general election,
which they together won with a very large
majority on a common platform, Dr. Page
demanded terms which Mr. Lyons was not
able to concede, and the Country party
stayed out of the Ministry; nor has a recent
invitation brought it in. Mr. Lyons asks
for the same right to choose from among
the members of the Country party as he
has to choose from among his own party.
The Country party denies him that right;
and that denial goes to the root of the
matter. For the Country party is not a
party of Mr. Lyons’s followers; on the
contrary they want to remain in a position
to extract more from Mr. Lyons than he
may be willing to give them—that is their
one only reason for being a separate
party. Therefore the first members Mr.
Lyons would choose might be the last the
party itself would choose. So long as the
Country party is a third party, established
and working on third-party principles, it
is right in taking this attitude.
But is the Country party wise to be any
longer a third party at all? That is a
very much larger question, and one which
will have to come up for most earnest con-
sideration very soon. We have seen how
the third party came into being. Its
members believed they would be just as
badly off under one principal party as the
other.. In N. S. Wales Parkes was kept
in office till he would not be squeezed any
more, and then Dibbs was when
his concessions were exhausted it was
George Reid’s turn; when nothing more
could be got from him, Lyne was given a
chance. In the Federal Parliament Deakin
and Reid were pitted against one another.
But what is the position to-day? Does it
not matter to the Country party whether
the Labor party with its declared policy of
“socialisation” is in power? The Country
party knows it matters—knows it matters
so much that there was not the smallest
doubt about the wisdom of combining to
fight the Lang forces at the election in N. S.
Wales. Yet there is only one possible
justification for a third party—that it is
prepared to throw its weight on either side.
If it is not prepared to do that, then what
is it a third party for?
If there were no danger from Bolshevism
the Country party would have a veiy good
reason for existence; for country interests
have often been seriously neglected. But a
new danger has arisen which completely over-
shadows every other. Little by little control
of the Labor party has been placed in the
hands of the Communists. We saw what hap-
pened recently in N. S. Wales—how com-
mission after commission, board after board
was appointed with the object of gradually
sovietising industry; the Revolution was on,
as Mr. Lang gleefully announced in an
interval between one repudiation and an-
other. Yet even Mr. Lang did not move
quickly enough ; the inter-State conference
which followed his defeat declared for the
immediate “socialisation” of “the means of
life,” means of life including farms and
sheep-runs, gardens and orchards; in short,
all those things by which the majority of
the members of the Country party live.
If it is a matter of indifference to the
members of the Country party whether the
Communists or the Individualists are in
power—the people who are pledged to work
for the Russian system or those who are
pledged to uphold the British system—they
need have no hesitation about continuing as
a third party. If it is not a matter of
indifference, the time has come for the
Country party to consider its position. It
may be pleaded that it does not much
matter what happens between elections so
long as there is a united front against the
enemy when an appeal is made to the
people. But if that is so, why bother to
have any organisation at all between elec-
tions? The plain truth, however, is that
so long as there are two parties so long will
their differences be magnified and accentu-
ated between elections, so that when elec-
tions come around it becomes exceedingly
difficult to dwell upon the thing of over-
powering importance upon which they are
agreed.
The position is neither obscure nor com-
plicated. In view of the determination of
the leaders of the Labor party, plainly ex-
pressed at their last conference, to push
ahead with communism, is communism a
menace of overwhelming importance? If
it is, can it best be fought by a united party,
or by a party divided against itself? And
what can the Country party hope to get
out of the division? Can it even contem-
plate joining up with Labor, in view of its
recent pronouncements? If the Country
party cannot do such a thing, what is to
be got by continuing as a third party—the
object of a third party, as we have seen,
being to gain concessions in return for sup-
port?
EXCHANGE OR TARIFF?
In the first two months of 1931-32 Aus-
tralia exported £755,000 more than it im-
ported; in the first two months of 1932-33
it has imported £2,960,000 more than has
been exported. Its imports (still in ster-
ling) have gone from £6,875,220 to
£9,891,021, an increase of £3,015,801, or 44
p.c. It is obvious that this cannot go on.
Admittedly, July and August are light
months for exports; admittedly, also, an
agitation to inci'ease the exchange rate in
order to further bonus the exporting indus-
tries may have led to a rush of imports.
But giving all that in, unless we can check
our imports there certainly will not be a
sufficient surplus of exports to pay our over-
seas interest bill. The acting-Government
Statist, whose guess may or may not be
right, suggests that our imports may be
about 11 millions more than our exports
warrant. Two courses are available for the
purpose of regulating our imports. Either
we may increase the rate of exchange or
we may decide that in our present circum-
stances there are many things we cannot
afford and that their importation must be
prohibited or diminished.
What is to be said for and against these
two courses respectively?
At present it costs £125 in Australia to
pay £lOO in England. If the rate were
raised to 130 it would cost the importer
5 p.c. more to land goods in Australia.
That, it is said, would keep out a few
more articles; and if a rise to 130 was not
effective, one to 140 might be. The im-
porter does not, however, pay a penny of
this money to the Treasury. It all goes in
the first place into the pocket of the ex-
porter; while the importer has to produce
£l3O (or whatever it may be) in Australia
to pay a bill for £lOO in London, the ex-
porter gets £l3O in Australian money for
every £lOO worth of his products he sells
to London. The exchange, in short, is pro-
vided by the importer. And it does not
matter in the least what he is an importer
of. A factory or a farm may be hung up
for an indispensable bit of plant or cer-
tain raw material which is not produced in
Australia. Such an article must pay exactly
the same tribute to the exporter as jewels
or silk hats or perfumery. A Customs
tariff is never quite blind. It sorts out im-
ports—lets this one in free because there
is no chance of producing it in Australia,
although it is badly needed there; puts a
light duty on another because with even a
little help the article ought to be produced
in Australia; puts a heavy duty on a third
article because, though it could be pro-
duced in Australia, it must be protected
against fierce foreign competition if the in-
dustry is to live; and, finally, in times of
stress, such as the present, bars certain
lines altogether as superfluous.
It is, however, said that, while it is true
that in regulating imports through exchange
all foreign goods must be treated alike,
yet the Customs tariff on desirable
imports can be reduced as a set-off against
exchange. That is correct so far as some
lines are concerned. If they can be pro-
duced in Australia and are not indispen-
sable imports, they carry a duty, and that
duty can be reduced. But if they are plant
or materials indispensable to an Australian
industry, and unprocurable in Australia, then
they cany no Customs duty. In that case
the exchange has to be blindly collected
in respect of a line which the tariff has de-
clared ought to be admitted free. And,
as we have seen, this exchange, which in
such a case has all the effect of a tariff,
goes, not to the State, but into the pockets
of private persons.
It is precisely because it does go into
the pockets of private persons that so many
private persons are to be found supporting
this plan for regulating imports. And it
is because for the most part they are very
deserving people that no great protest has
been made against this plan even by those
who provide the money. For one thing,
they know they will get it back presently.
The importer who finds that, by reason of
the exchange, an article has cost him
Bd. instead of 6d. is not at all likely
to sell it for 6d. On the contrary, he will
add his usual percentage on to the extra
2d. This is what is happening now. At the
outset, when the exchange was pushed up
to 130, importers and dealers in imported
goods found it difficult to add the extra
charge because most of the stock in Aus-
tralia had not paid it. .Now, however, that
practically all imported goods have borne
the charge, the importer can safely import
as much as he did before the exchange was
lifted. To be effective the exchange must
therefore be raised again. If it were put
up to 150. precisely the same thing would
happen. It would be effective for a few
months; then the importer would adjust
his prices and be able to import as freely
at 150 as to-day he can at 125 or as he could
22 months ago at 105.
And then, while the exporter must lose
any benefits he got to begin with, the
general body of taxpayers must be bled
still more to pay exchange, which even at
present amounts to seven millions a year
on the overseas interest bill.
So, while a high exchange rate does
benefit the exporter for a while, it is not
effective in reducing imports for more than
a few months, whereas a prohibition or em-
bargo is absolutely effective for just as long
as it is maintained. Also the moment it
is lifted its effects cease to be felt, while
the effects of a lift in the exchange rate
are so far-reaching that the lowering of
it is very difficult. Further, the embargo
can be placed upon goods chosen with the
utmost discrimination, whereas exchange,
so long as it is effective at all in regulating
imports, does it blindly and clumsily.
THE PROBLEM OF YOUTH.
The great annual public examinations are
in progress and the problem of what to do
with the boys is again uppermost. Through
no fault of theirs they have been brought
into a world of which their fathers have
made a bad mess. Worse, it is a world of
fierce selfishness; we have been eating and
drinking and leaving the bills unpaid. The
little handful of people in Australia has in
less than a hundred years sold 145 million
acres of public land and used the proceeds;
it has dug up 632 millions’ worth of gold and
vast sums in other metals; and still it has
accumulated a public debt of about 1200
millions—every Australian infant comes
into the world facing an annual tax bill of
£l6. Even in these past dozen years we have
been doing the children a great injustice;
we have been giving them an entirely wrong
idea of the world they have come into.
Year by year we went into debt for 40 mil-
lions—in one shocking year for upwards of
54 millions. The confession of our folly is
not the least of our obligations to youth.
And, of course, there are other obligations.
What are these boys to do? Two wrong
things we did to ‘the youths who were
reaching manhood in the days of the false
notions: we encouraged far too many of
them into white-collar jobs, and far too
many others of them into unskilled
callings, the latter by offering too high
pay for such poor work. Both these groups
of occupations are therefore badly over-
crowded. And what of the land, to which
the Australian has always been in the habit
of turning? It is not easy to say whether
the farmer is the worst off or . the best off
person in the world to-day. His goods,
with the possible exception of wool, are
the most overproduced of all—perhaps the
only ones that are overproduced—and they
hawe fallen far more in value than any
other group of commodities. Nor has the
over-production ceased. The farmer for the
most part is his own boss. Hence when
disaster strikes him he does not do as other
great producers do—shorten hands. He
simply works harder to produce more and
so make up for the lower price. Further,
the mechanisation of agriculture has been
so rapid that nothing but heavy production
at low prices can be looked forward to.
From this point of view the farming class
is the worst off in the world and its outlook
is the gloomiest. On the other hand, the
farmer can live through a depression which
would starve other men. The city worker,
who in normal times earns' far more than
he, is very early driven on to the dole; the
farmer hardly knows what the dole means,
bo we have this curious situation: men
leaving the farms in good times, because
except at boom prices good times on the
farm would be poor times in the city; and
men going back to the land in bad times,
because bad times on the farm are never
as terrible as bad times in the town.
From all this there is only one conclusion;
our best hope in the next few years lies in
manufacture—in the production of many
of those things which hitherto we have em-
ployed others to make for us. In the years
between 1921 and 1930 we never imported
less than 103 millions’ worth and the total
went as high as 164 millions. That suggests
the amount of employment which we found
for others. We are told, of course, that we
cannot produce most of the goods at com-
petitive prices—that we will have to pay so
much that our primary industries will be too
heavily burdened with costs. Well, admit-
tedly we must not sacrifice our primary
industries. On the other hand, the primary
industries are such poor employers of labor,
and the outlook for most of them is so
gloomy, that we certainly must not sacri-
fice our secondary industries either. We
took no census in 1931; but the ’2l census
showed that the primary industries then
employed only 25 p.c. of Australian bread-
winners against 30 p.c. in 1911 and 324 p.c.
in 1901. This supports American experience,
which shows that a given quantity of grain
can be produced with 60 p.c. of the labor
required 20 years ago; and the displacement
of man-power is proceeding faster than ever.
POLITICAL DISHONESTY.
W. E. Rogers, the outspoken Auditor-
General of S. Australia, says that, though
the old loan policy has been modified by
circumstances, it is still being practised as
far as possible, and he declares that some-
thing ought to be done to limit the power of
Parliaments in this regard. Nothing could
be truer. For the sake of keeping their
jobs politicians have shown themselves
willing to thrust the country up to the neck
in debt, and to condemn future generations
to a lifetime of bitter struggle. Something
should be done to stop this scandal from
going any further.
The Bulletin has hitherto suggested one
method. A provision ought to be embedded
in every Australian Constitution that no
money may be borrowed for any public
work without the consent of two Parlia-
ments. In other words, a general election
should intervene between the first approval
of the proposed work and its final authori-
sation. Such a plan would usually mean
that the work would have to secure the
approval of both main political parties
before it could be begun; and thus neither
would be able to claim to have been
entirely responsible for the undertaking.
Further, if all the loan works approved
in one Parliament had to come up for final
authorisation in the next, the people would
at least have an opportunity of confirming
or rejecting the loan policy at a general
election. This would probably be more
effective than a direct referendum; for poli-
ticians have adopted the referendum as a
handy means of shifting responsibility from
themselves to the backs of the people.
This plan, it is true, would not abso-
lutely stop a Government from committing
the people to a debt. Deficits would still
be possible; and deficits mean loans.
Admittedly it might thus still be practicable
for a Government to purchase votes by the
process of going into debt on revenue
account, as the Lang- Government did
recently in N. S. Wales. But to the pro-
hibition of loans for works except on the
terms suggested might be added powers to
impeach politicians for attempting to defeat
the intentions of the law. Whether there
are any powers of impeachment at all
in Australia is doubtful. Yet unques-
tionably there ought to be. We have again
and again seen how extraordinarily difficult
it is to prove against any Minister that he
actually put public money into his own
pocket, or accepted bribes or secret pay-
ments. But we need not worry so much
about that; for, after all, this is not the sort
of thing from which the public is now
suffering. The greatest wrong has been done
by what is quite improperly called political
dishonesty—the purchase of political advan-
tage with public funds, often borrowed for
the purpose. This is the crime with which
we ought to be supplied with means to
deal.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Are Things Getting Better?
The world’s trouble came with a crash
in prices. In past times cdsts would have
been reduced to correspond. On this occa-
sion organised labor everywhere stood in
the way. Two alternatives were then faced;
to raise prices by some jugglery or to lower
costs notwithstanding labor opposition. Here
and there the first alternative has been
tried; but local and fragmentary action on
these lines has never commended itself to
solid people. That threw the world back
upon reduction of costs; and it is interesting
to measure the progress which has been
made in that direction.
There are three ways in which the ordi-
nary business can reduce its costs: by
attacking wages and salaries, by attacking
capital charges, by attacking waste. The
early opposition of organised labor to wage-
reductions was largely tactical; quite rightly
labor did not want to carry more than its
fair share of the load of retrenchment. Here
and there, it is true, there were men who,
working for the Revolution, resisted any
wage cuts whatever, no matter how the
cost of living might fall; but their resist-
ance has been futile everywhere. Between
the first quarter of 1929 and the first quarter
of 1932, the Commonwealth basic wage
shrank by as much as 31.3 p.c. in S. Aus.
(the smallest shrinkage was 21.9 p.c. in
Tasmania); State basic wages have been
reduced by not quite as much—by anything
up to 26.3 p.c. Nor is that all: unquestion-
ably labor is giving better service, so it
would be well within the mark to say that
labor costs have been reduced on an aver-
age from 28 to 30 p.c., probably more. And,
since the basic wage reductions have been
governed by the cost of living, the workers
are no worse off.
It is not possible to say what average
reduction has been made in capital charges.
In some cases no reduction at all has been
made, nor was any justified by the circum--
stances—in the case, for example, of old
loans at very low rates of interest; the
States have 96 millions of loans outstanding
at 34 p.c. and under. But over the great
bulk of the public domestic loans not only
has a cut of 224 p.c. been made, but dates
of repayment have been pushed far into the
distance; and on very large amounts of
bank advances to private borrowers there
has been a reduction of 27 p.c. The burden
of overseas loans still weighs heavily upon
us; but the British Government is post-
poning both interest and sinking fund on 82
millions of war debt; and a reduction equal
to about 28 p.c. was made by the recent
small conversion—a hint of what may be
hoped for. Rents have been reduced by
an average of probably 35 p.c. It is signi-
ficant that the only large outgoings which
have not been reduced are those called for
by the State or other public authority.
Unfortunately no statistical or other
information of much consequence is avail-
able as to improvements made (if any) in
our productive processes and practices.
But there can be no doubt that in every
worthwhile factory or farm waste has been
cut out somewhere.
Australia has made more statutory cuts
than any other country in the world. But
it does not follow that it has made the
largest cost-reductions. Britain’s colossal
conversion loan is an example of what has
been done voluntarily there; and already
some statistics are available showing the
great cuts in production and distribution
costs in America. It may be that an inter-
national conference will at one stroke lift
prices, to the great relief of all debtors;
meantime, much comfort is to be got from
a consideration of the substantial progress
that has been made to deal with the world-
problem by the other route of cost-
reduction.
>
Governors and Their Job.
For nearly 18 months N. S. Wales was
recently kept on the rack, and brought very
close to civil war. During this period
industry and commerce were harried and
oppressed, businesses were ruined, thou-
sands of men and women were added to
the army of the unemployed, and such a
feeling of utter loss of confidence was
created that the affairs of the country
rapidly approached a state of chaos. For-
tunately the Federal authority had passed
into the hands of the Lyons-Latham Gov-
ernment, which, by taking quite extraordi-
nary measures, prevented Mr. Lang and
his Ministers from' doing irremediable
damage to the Commonwealth. Then Mr.
Lang, with characteristic stupidity and
arrogance, decided to measure his power
against that of the Federal authority and,
calling upon his officers to defy Federal
law, was dismissed by the Governor. But
for that tactical blunder of Mr. Lang’s there
is no reason why he should not still have
been in office, provided he could have sup-
pressed any outbreaks of civil war.
And for 12 months at least of this period
of unutterable misery and ruin, this period
of preparation for the Revolution with all
its disastrous consequences, it was fairly
obvious to anybody that the Government
had not only lost the confidence of the
people, but was carrying out policies which
contemptuously disregarded the promises it
had made to the people. Mr. Lang himself
scarcely hesitated at last to even camouflage
his position. “We are here for three years,”
he said in effect, “and, since no power
can shift us, we propose to do what we
damn well please.” We know, too, how he
legislated—how bills of the first import-
ance were thrown before the House, and
rushed through at a single sitting without
either serious explanation or the possibility
of debate.
Meantime the Governor did not a thing;
and there need be no question at all that
in following this course he obeyed his in-
structions to the letter. Nor can there be
any question that the course which Sir
Philip Game followed—a course of inaction
though he saw the country drifting towards
chaos and probably civil war —will be a
precedent to guide any future Governor
who may be faced with the same set of
circumstances and is under the same set of
instructions.
Assuming, then, that the next Premier
who will rejoice that “the Revolution is
on” will avoid the tactical blunder which
alone brought Mr. Lang to grief, what are
the prospects? Even though he was
returned to power pledged to fight the
Revolution, it looks very much as though
nothing will happen until the Red flag flies
over Government House, unless we get
those instructions changed.
So long as the instructions remain as they
are, and so long as sinister influences are
at work in the world, no State is safe.
What self-governing rights demand is that
there shall be some authority (and what
authority can it be except the Governor?)
which shall satisfy itself that a Government
is in step with the people, and which, if
it cannot so satisfy itself, shall be required
to send the Government to the people for
their judgment. That a Governor will not
exercise this power capriciously goes with-
out saying. If he does, he will, of course,
be recalled. But failure to protect the
people should much more emphatically dis-
qualify him. If he fails in that he fails in
the onlv thing which justifies his office.
The "matter of asking the Dominions
Office to reconsider the instructions to
Governors cannot be left over till the next
occasion arises for the exercise of the
proposed discretion. It will then be too late.
The time to do it is when, though past
dangers are fresh in our memories, the
change can be made without reflecting or
seeming to reflect upon anyone.
-♦
Taxation and National Trade.
Under the law of Queensland the Commis-
sioner of Taxes need not know what a
national trader’s profits in that State are
in order to levy income tax upon them. If,
for example, a Victorian manufacturer sells
his goods in Queensland, the Commis-
sioner is entitled to assume that the profits
are 7i p.c. of the turnover, though the
manufacturer may declare that, because of
high costs of distribution, there have been
no profits at all from the Queensland trad-
ing. In a recent case a Queensland Judge
held that such a tax was a violation of the
Federal Constitution, which declares that
trade between the States shall be free;
and apparently the matter is to be taken to
the High Court. But it is to be presumed
the High Court will decide only whether
such a method of assessing income is
allowable: it will not lay down positive
rules for the guidance of Commissioners m
ascertaining what income tax an inter-State
trader should pay.
If income tax were collected by the
Federal authority alone, as it should be,
no difficulty would arise: it would not
matter then where an Australian made his
profits. But so long as the tax is assessed
and collected by different States, difficul-
ties are bound to arise and injustices to be
done. In some cases raw material is pro-
duced and prepared in one or more States
and the main process is carried on in an-
other: the Broken Hill Proprietary, for
instance, draws its iron ore from S. Aus-
tralia, its limestone from Tasmania, and
its coal from N. S. Wales, where the iron
and steel furnaces are; and for the sake
of convenience much of the administrative
work is done in Victoria, where the co. s
offices are. In a multitude of other cases
manufacture is done in one State and a
selling campaign is carried on in others.
It is a matter of indifference to the honest
trader where he pays hiis income tax. But
it is a matter of the greatest moment to
him that he should pay it only once ; and
unless the States agree upon a formula foi
the division of the tax, nothing is surer
than that he will have to pay more than
once. There can be few inter-State traders
who have escaped this experience.
Conferences of Taxation Commissioners
and their Ministers have been held at
which this matter has been discussed; and
always it has been agreed that the dupli-
cation of taxes is unjust and ought not to
be. But beyond passing these pious resolu-
tions nothing has been done ; the injustices
have continued. Now, this is not a matter
which affects only the individual taxpayei
who is rooked. In the national interest
we are struggling to bring down costs; and
an obvious method is to set up national
industries and encourage mass production.
But what hope is there for such production
so long as distribution is penalised and dis-
couraged by this system of duplicated tax-
ation of the one profit? It is for this reason
that, notwithstanding the pending appeal
to the High Court, the Federal Government
should take the matter in hand, and, if
it is not prepared to acquire the whole
field of income taxation, at least insist that
a formula is adopted under which no trader
will be taxed on more than 100 p.c. of his
profits. Inevitably, if this is not done there
will be more expensive and troublesome
appeals to the High Court, which may even
be asked to declare that any system under
which trade between the States. is put in
a worse position than trade that is confined
to one State is unconstitutional. But this
will be merely pushing off on to the High
Court work which the politicians ought
to do.
4
A Queensland Scandal.
The Royal Commission instituted by the
Forgan Smith Government to inquire into
the alleged payment of secret commissions
to Queensland butter manufacturers and
others by firms supplying the industry with
plant and other requisites has issued a sen-
sational report. It asserts that over £30,000
has been paid in secret commissions to
factory officials and other people connected
with the industry, and that elaborate
measures have been taken to conceal these
transactions in the books of the firms and
individuals concerned. One prominent
figure implicated is H. F. Walker,, a Country
party member of the Opposition. The
Commissioner found that he had been paid
£l5OO as a secret commission by a firm
named Wildridge and Sinclair in respect
of a contract for a butter factory. The
Commissioner also was satisfied that an-
other Opposition M.L.A., H. M. Russell,
was involved through the firm of H. M.
Russell and Co., of which he is the head.
In this case he found that secret commis-
sion was received and paid; and though
Russell himself denied all knowledge of the
transactions, the Commissioner declares
himself unable to accept the explanation.
He found that the firm had received secret
commissions amounting to £l3OO, and had
secretly paid out £1237, as well as allowing
a secret contra on invoices amounting to
£9B 10s. The firm connected with Russell
and Co. in these transactions was Waugh
and Josephson. The Government has re-
ferred the report to the Crown Law office,
and there it rests for the time being.
One hint has been dropped by the leader
of the Government which should attract
the attention of those interested: legislation
may be passed forfeiting to the Crown all
secret commissions which the Commissioner
found had been paid. Any such action
would raise very important questions. It
would, for one thing, inevitably be recalled
that, although a. Royal Commissioner of
much greater eminence than the gentleman
who sat in the present matter found that two
ex-Labor Premiers of the State had been
guilty of certain things in connection with
Chillagoe, an attempt to recover from them
at law failed ignominiously. The affair
leaves a nasty taste in the mouth; it is,
unfortunately, only further evidence that
corruption has become a commonplace of
life. But, specifically, secret commissions
and illicit profits are hard to sheet home
in the law courts, whatever Royal Commis-
sions may think of them, and how to deal
effectively with a practice which has grown
almost into a custom is a problem full of
headaches.
4
Black Bananas.
Queensland, which accepted the reduction
in sugar prices with comparative equa-
nimity, is up in arms over what it considers
the threat to its banana-growing industry
by the reduction of the duty on Fijian-
grown fruit under the Ottawa agreement.
At present the threat is not serious. The
Fijian importation is to be limited to 40,000
centals per annum, which amounts, roughly,
to only about 21 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian consumption. Provided that limit is
adhered to there seems little for the growers
in Queensland and northern N.S.W. to
worry about. But limitations of the kind
are apt to be extended under pressure;
and Queensland growers in particular have
vivid memories of what an earlier Federal
Government did to the industry. Prior to
Federation banana-farming in North
Queensland was a large and flourishing busi-
ness. With Federation the door swung
open to fruit grown by black labor, and
within five years the Queensland growers
were going through the bankruptcy courts,
and thousands of acres of once-profitable
banana land around Cairns and Innisfail.
which had supported a considerable popula-
tion, was returning to the jungle. Later the
Federal Government again intervened, this
time in the opposite direction. A duty of
Bs. 4d. per cental was placed on Fijian
bananas; and in Queensland and the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers the industry at once re-
vived, and approached the old standard.
Queensland is quite prepared to make
some sacrifices in the cause of Empire; if
Fiji’s goodwill and trade can be won by
throwing our ports open to receive 2-J, per
cent, of our total requirements in bananas
from those islands, Queensland is not at all
likely to make a fuss about the concession.
What it does fear is that the 21 per cent,
may be used as a wedge to open a way for
much larger imports; and a definite assur-
ance on that point should be forthcoming.
Queensland’s goodwill is worth cultivating,
too.
4
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association.
From Harold Sims, of Moree (N.S.W.): —
For judgment of public opinion, to which
I appealed, my attack upon Rule 34 of the
N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association depends
upon whether or not it destroys the demo-
cratic principle of majority rule, to which
the vital question of representation is in-
separably bound. I said it did. In defence
Mr. .T. W. Allen (B. 12/10/’32) quotes the
rule. I thank him, and welcome this official
test of the accuracy of my contention.
The 8500 or so members of the associa-
tion receive ballot-papers for the annual
election of the 43 members to the general
council. As soon as this representative body
is returned it is compelled by rule 34, as
quoted by Mr. Allen, to elect 10 additional
members, upon whose qualifications the voter
has had no opportunity to pronounce a judg-
ment. Elected in this way, these 10 addi-
tional can have no representative value;
yet they are endowed with full privileges
and exercise a voting strength of 24 per
cent, of the chamber. When, therefore, a
majority decision upon a vital question of
policy is gained with the support of this
privileged vote, as is not infrequently the
case, how can it possibly reflect the opinion
of the majority of the 8500 woolgrowers it
claims to represent? Moreover, when it is
realised, as Mr. Allen points out, that this
council is vested with power to determine
the policy of the association, the importance
of protecting the principle of majority rule
from violation or anything calculated to
imperil it becomes instantly apparent. It
should also be borne in mind that, in com-
mon with all other members, each of the
10 additionals is already represented by the
43 members elected by popular vote.
Rule 39, also quoted by Mr. Allen, gives
the general council power to elect four of
its members to executive office. These
appointments—more than sufficient to form
a quorum—for years have been made, not
from any of the 43 returned candidates to
the council, but in every instance from, the
10 additionals. The direct result of this is
disclosed in the astounding fact that only
two of the eight men at present exercising
executive authority to' administer the affairs
of and speak for the Graziers’ Association
of N. S. Wales have been placed there by
the votes of the woolgrower! Can any de-
finition of democratic control explain that
condition? Clothe the rule which conceals
it in what language you will, it still remains
without a parallel in Australia.
Mr. Allen’s assurance that the executive
committee has only administrative functions
overlooks the fact that its action in bringing
about a reversal of a decision of last year’s
annual conference on a vital question was
described by himself when addressing the
Mo'ree District Council, at which I was in
attendance, as a dangerous precedent. That
in itself is sufficient to establish grounds
upon which to question the right of Rule 34
to operate within an organisation which
claims to respect the principle of democratic
representation.
♦
Shelving the Cenotaph.
After the unveiling of the Sydney Cenotaph
in Martin-place the City Council took it
over “on behalf of the citizens.” A number
of what were alleged to be defects were soon
noticed: the figures were too near the ground
for the effect Mackennal aimed at, and the
base was too small. But apparently the
City Council was not interested; indeed,
the only evidence it has given that it knows
even of the existence of the statuary con-
sists of periodical suggestions that it should
be shifted. The latest occurred a few days
ago when, in reply to a complaint of the
Returned Soldiers and Sailors’ League that
the State’s memorial to Australia’s heroic
dead was being used as a starting and
finishing place for cycle and motor races and
endurance stunts, the Council wrote sug-
gesting that it should be transferred to
Hyde Park.
This raises the whole question of the
purpose of the Cenotaph. It is not an ordi-
nary monument. For the Archibald
Memorial, for example, as for most, there
is only one fitting place, and that is within
a park. The Cenotaph would be lost in
such surroundings. Its very size, as of
that of the London Cenotaph in Whitehall,
suggests its purpose: it is to live with
us. To push it out of a very public
place is, therefore, to defeat its object.
It is intended to meet us in our daily
occupations; when we are prepared to go
seeking a memorial we shall look for some-
thing more extensive, more elaborate.
From this point of view it is doubtful
whether there is any substance, even in the
alleged defects to which attention has been
drawn. The Cenotaph was not designed to
be overpowering, even commanding. It
was only intended to be intimate; and be-
cause of that, its present site is almost
ideal, being, like that of the Whitehall
monument, in an important part of the
city and in an enclosed space capable on
occasion of holding a crowd impressively.
*
Too Kind to the Tax-dodger.
An aggravation of Australia’s savage taxa-
tion is the fact that a very considerable
percentage of prosperous people seem to be
able to dodge direct taxes altogether. Occa-
sionally a dodger is brought to book, but
the penalty in most cases is inadequate. A
stock dealer whose income from 1923 to
1932 varied from £824 to £987 sent in n'Q
returns and paid no income tax. Starting
with a capital of £126 he accumulated during
that period assets valued to-day at £9791.
He was fined £2Ol 4s. and is liable to pay,
in addition, £769 3s. 4d., the income tax
that he dodged. A very heavy penalty on
the poor fellow, some will say : but is it?
In his business his capital resources must
have been all-important. By not paying
taxes he gained, in effect, the use of about
£B5 a year. If he had borrowed that sum
annually from his bank on overdraft and
made no attempt to repay it till now, the
bank’s little bill to date, assessing the over-
draft rate at an average of 7 per cent.,
would be £lOl7. Looked at in that light,
the drover is making a profit of £46 on the
transaction. And as the Taxation Depart-
ment’s lawyer observed: “If we hadn’t found
him out he would still be defaulting.” In
this as in other cases, the magistrate in
assessing the penalty seems to have capi-
talised the arrears at about 5 p.c. compound.
It isn’t enough.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000. ,
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin L ane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Rings
$
.
mmm
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval .
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1 ! 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITCAL
POINTS
Sturdy old Missingliam, the Chairman of
Committees, had two Langsters put out the
other day for giving him cheek. It is a wel-
come departure from the rowdy traditions
of N.S.W.’s Lower (and Australia’s lowest)
House, but it doesn’t go far enough. The
kind of member who won’t behave can only
be effectually punished through his pocket.
Ejection should involve loss of salary—a
month for a first offence, three months for
a second in the same session, and six months
for a third. If this were incorporated ip
the rules, the Lower House might begin tjo
look like a deliberative assembly.
POLITICIAN : “Now, my man, why aren’t you
rushing to the assistance of the unem-
ployed?”
With trade gone to the bow-wows and
revenue drying up, in spite of multiplied
taxes, the De Valera Government has under-
taken to pay £30,000 a year in I.R.A. pen-
sions. Young men who took up arms
against the Free State Government are eli-
gible, as well as slightly older men who
fought against the Oppressor. Parnell and the
Redmonds worked for a United Ireland, and
Cosgrove carried on. De Valera has
shattered the dream for half a century.
To place the Vic. railways on a “true
capital basis” £25,000,000 would have to be
‘written off,” Deputy-Premier Menzies says.
His estimate is higher than those of the
Auditor-General, Clapp and the Railway
Royal Commission, but it is near enough.
He could make it £50,000,000. and the
£50,000,000 might be “written off,” without
reducing the State’s real liability by a cent.
Says Mr. Badly: “If the Lang Adminis-
tration comes back to office, one thing it will
do is to control the banking institutions.”
Well, it controlled one, “the greatest Savings
Bank in the Empire,” and in six months the
shutters went up and people sold their
deposits for 10s. and 11s. in the £. Lang’s
other satellite Beasley alleges that “an army
of spies and pimps is being let loose to
plague the old-age pensioners.” If his
crowd is ever returned “to control the finan-
cial institutions” it will require “an army”
a thousand times the size of the pensions
staff to prevent hoarding.
Queensland is staggering under another
wallop from Ottawa. It enjoyed a Canadian
| preference on tinned pineapples, and last
• year’s export amounted to 3,000,0001 b.
Under the new agreement the preference
goes, and Queensland will now have to com-
pete with the produce of Singapore, Hawaii
and Fiji. The tale has been told that
Francis, the Assistant Minister, and
Mackay, the Speaker, are so wild with the
Government about sugar, bananas and pine-
apples that they intend to resign; but this
they deny.
) Adelaide had another laugh at the expense
of Langism when copies of the Sydney
“Labor Daily” arrived with the news that on
Labor Day “over 1000 members of the Lang
party in Adelaide marched behind their ban-
ners and were cheered as they passed
s through the crowded streets.” A local
ipaper merrily remarks that “not more than
200 unionists” marched altogether, and “30
or 40 Lang supporters brought up the rear.”
It publishes a photograph to prove it. This
1 Lang joke is financed by N.S.W. labor-
I unionists. From first to last it has cost
jtbem a pretty penny t 0 keep Adelaide
s amused.
Vic. Assembly has passed a bill pro-
viding for progress payments of income tax
by weekly deductions from wages and
salaries. On £1 to £1 10s. the toll will be
Id.; on £1 10s. Id. to £1 19s. lid., 2d.;
between £2 and £6, 6d in the £; over £6,
Is. in the £. Each new section begins,
midway between pounds for the sixpenny
and shilling rises; for example, the State
will take 12s. from screws ranging from
£ll 10s. Id. to £l2 10s. Victoria is to
a large extent copying South Aus., where
the instalment system has been on trial, but
it has also had some experience with its
own unemployed-relief tax. Refunds will
be necessary in some cases, but here again
the department has had some practice.
After booming Hogan for five years, the
“Age” is becoming impatient with him. It
accused the ex-Premier of dealing in Parlia-
ment “with many questions in which the
public is not in the slightest degree inter-
ested.” In the same issue it declared that
in five months as Premier Argyle had gained
a reputation for his ability to impress him-
self upon his party. Compliments for Argyle
in the Syme journal are rare morsels.
When Gullett altered the tobacco duties,
at the same time arranging for the purchase
of all f.a.q. 1931-82 leaf at 2s. 3d. a pound,
Federal Labor and the “Age” roared that
the growers would be ruined. Cocky members
took up the cry; Thompson, the New Eng-
land man, wailed: “The industry will go
phut; instead of 4000 growers, there will
only be 400, perhaps only 40.” The same
Thompson said the other day that Gullett’s
arrangements had wsrked so well that the
growers would like to have them renewed
for another year and amplified on some
points; “the industry has emerged from the
season satisfactorily; before the end of the
year all the saleable tobacco will have been
sold.” In short, Thompson was wildly
wrong; but he has been frank enough to
admit it. Not so the other false prophets,
who are now roaring that Ottawa spells
ruin to the manufacturers.
Stacey, the member for Adelaide, who is
something of an authority on forestry—any-
way, he inspected the S. Aus. plantations
for the local Controller of Forests, and re-
ported that the Government was losing a
penny on every fruit-case cut in its Wirra-
bara mill —has been examining the Canberra
experiments in this line. He has come to
the conclusion that “the authorities are
trying to grow five or six trees where only
one can grow really well”:
In Mt. Gambier, S.A., the mills are cutting 30
feet of timber from trees 15 years of age. There
are trees 16 years of age in the Mt. Stromlo area
from which 3in. x 3in« timber could not be cut....
By the time haulage is paid from forest to railway,
and freight to Sydney or Melbourne, cost of transport
will be greater than the price obtained for the timber.
Stacey will get himself disliked if he doesn’t
look out. Waste of money at Canberra and
thereabouts is regarded as a service ren-
dered to the nation, and the politician who
objects to it as a nark.
Edward Mitchell, K.C., leader of the Vic.
Bar, lately added another to the cloud of
legal doubts and uncertainties which sur-
round the question of carving up N. S.
Wales into smaller States. A State might
once have agreed to dismemberment and
perhaps that ended the matter if the Federal
Parliament liked to accept the new State;
but Mitchell holds that the Financial Agree-
CHORUS: “How much money is there in it
for us, Mummy?”
ment and the last Constitutional amendment
alter all that. His contention is that in
these days every party to the agreement—
that is, every State —will have to assent to
the dismemberment, on the ground that dis-
memberment might affect the party’s capa-
city to do what every State has undertaken
to do. This may be right or it may be wrong;
but it adds still another hurdle for the New
Staters to get over.
Queensland, which pools almost every com-
modity it produces, from pineapples to pea-
nuts, is in a quandary. Webb, J., declared
voluntary pools formed under the Primary
Producers’ Organisation Act illegal. So
when the peanut pool tackled the Common-
wealth Bank for the customary advance—
in this case, £lB,OO0 —the bank refused un-
less the State Government guaranteed the
advance. This has been done, and peanut-
growers are breathing more freely. But if
the Government obliges the numerous other
pools which will be asking for advances it
is going to carry a solid liability.
“To maintain the effectiveness of the Ottawa pre-
ferences, Britain is terminating the trade agreement
with Russia. And, in consequence of the repudiation
policy and seizure of American property, the U.S.A.
still refuses to recognise the Red Republic.”
“Vot about you giving me some orders,
mein American friend?”
"Can’t hear you, bo. I’ve bin hard of hear-
ing, as far as you’re concerned, for
fourteen years.”
1 Peter Loughlin, who was in the Storey-
Dooley Cabinet with' Lang, and was his
deputy-Premier and Minister of Lands for
17 months, sat quietly on his Assembly
bench as U.A.P. member for Goulburn until
he was stung by a Lang sneer that he had
been “bought by Bavin in 1926.” Then he
went into action properly; said that Lajng
“scabbed on Seullin” and brought Federal
Labor down, and had twice smashed his own
Government and faction, because he had
brought the country to such an appalling
pass that he couldn’t see any other way
out:
Cowardice was the reason for the election in 1927
and cowardice was responsible for the recent election.
Lang deliberately manoeuvred himself into the posi-
tion that the Governor had to dismiss him.
Peter had almost a crowded House for his
philippic ; but one place was vacant. Lang
is never on hand when he knows or fears
that someone is going to tackle him. Some-
how, he satisfies the craving of the mob for
leadership, but in a crisis, where the mob
can’t help him, he makes himself scarce.
“S. M. Herald” sees in the trade figures
a “favorable balance.” . If there is no need
to pay the bill for oversea interest as well
as to pay for imports, there may be a
surplus in view, as alleged, but it looks more
a case of defective eyesight. In 1923-24
Australia added £50,000,000 to its foreign
debt because it was supposed to be the correct
caper to encourage imports. In 1929-30
there was a deficit of £4t>,000,000. In 1930-
31 came the explosion. In 1931-32 the
Commonwealth paid for its imports and its
interest bill and a trifle over. In 1932-33
it has started back on the old track to in-
solvency again.
The story that Japan was after Portu-
guese Timor came out in London “Daily
Herald.” According to its author: —
Mi. W. M. Hughes told me when Japan launched
its attack on Manchuria that it was unquestionably
anxious to secure a foothold in lands just north
of Australia.
But the Japanese secured that foothold
when they were given the mandate over the
Caroline, Pelew, Marshall and Marianne
islands, and Hughes was Prime Minister
at the time. Hughes did not object, but
Uncle Sam kicked up a row, especially over
Yap, a cable station, and at Washington in
1922 obtained by special treaty a guarantee
of full equality in the use of the cables and
the right to erect a wireless station, if neces-
sary. Billy was looking for danger in the
wrong direction.
The tote is hitting the racecourse book-
makers hard in Victoria, where it was intro-
duced last year, and may drive many of
them to ply their trade in shops. In South
Aus. and Tasmania, when betting is sup-
posed to be confined to the machine, shop
bookmakers are so plentiful, and their opera-
tions so harmful to racing and revenue, that
the Governments are considering the removal
of the ban on the racecourse variety. A
better plan would be to reduce the tote
taxation (there is a tendency to overdo it
everywhere) and arrange for managers of
the outfits to take wagers telegraphed from
any part of the country up to half an hour
before the particular race. The P.M.G. s
Department might object, but this concern
makes no bones about delivering telegrams,
issuing listeners’ licenses and supplying tele-
phones to shop bookmakers. It ought to be
required to assist the law and consolidated
revenue for a change.
Arthur Loftus Sylvester Flint, a retired
Commonwealth public servant, who lives
at Moreland, near Melbourne, has been
acclaimed as a benefactor in the homes of
many elderly ex-Federal officers since he
obtained a declaration from the High Court
that former State officers who went over to
the Commonwealth service had their pen-
sions safeguarded from percentage deduc-
tions by the Commonwealth Constitution
(Sec. 84). The Court made an order for
the return of £53 17s. lid. and payment of
full pension in future; and, of course, the
same rule will have to be applied to others
whose cases are on all-fours with Flint’s.
Victoria’s Government has abandoned its
idea of spending £40,000 on patching up the
out-of-date Kew asylum. A deputation from
the local council, of which Argyle was once
a member, found the Premier sympathetic
when it suggested that it would be better to
sell 180 acres of the. higher portion of the
400 acres comprising the asylum reserve
and build a new mental hospital at Mont
Park or Janefield, a few miles beyond. In
each of those State-owned areas there is
ample room.
Bruce, the Queensland Minister of Works,
in .trying to> defend his party’s re-imposition
of the rail fares and freights reduced by
Moore, was forced to admit that the freight
schedules are full of anomalies. He was
asked, to explain why bullion is carried from
Mt. Isa to Townsville for 375. lOd. per ton
when the charge on wool for practically the
same journey is 1555. 4d. He pleaded,
amidst howls of derision, that coal and coke
are backloaded for Isa, saying nothing about
backloading of station supplies. Queens-
land Labor has been extremely kind to Isa.
Queenslanders who want an open go in
the matter of publishing divorce-court
garbage hope to be accommodated before
long. The Moore Government passed an
Act prohibiting the publication of anything
but essential details and giving Judges power
to hear cases in Chambers. It is announced
that an “amendment’’ loosening the bonds
which have been cramping the style of gutter
papers is probable.
In the Federal Arbitration Court last week
Judge Beeby “expressed doubts whether in
these times they should fix wages subject to
automatic adjustments according to changes
in the cost of living. The position of an
industry should be taken into account in
fixing wages.’’ In other words, cost of living
was all right as a wage-fixer so long as times
were prosperous and it didn’t matter much
JUDGE BEEBY: “What’s that you’re carrying?
A lifebuoy? Oh, well, it looked well on
shore; but now you’re going into the
water, you'd better throw it away.”
what wages were paid; but as soon as times
get bad, cost of living as a wage-fixer is
no good and had better be discarded. It’s
the sort of lifebuoy, in short, that will keep
you from drowning so long as you don’t
have to go into the water with it. The
Bulletin has been trying to show this for
10 years; but it has taken Judge Beeby a
long time to see it.
Having dragged along like an old-time
Chancery suit, the Vic. inquiry into the
grievances of 311 British settlers is drawing
to a close. In 20 months or so 500 wit-
nesses have_ been called, and the official re-
ports run into four million words. Chief
Arbitration Judge Dethridge is chairman of
the investigating body, and —conscientious
man that he is—will read every word.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
THE RULING PASSION.
TRAM INSPECTOR: “Show tickets, please.”
OLD LADY: “All right, conductor. But mine’s not a whole one—lemme think—I’ve got
a sixth share. There’s me niece Ruby, and young Tom, and Aunt Abigail's
husbun’ that’s been out of work two years, and — oh, yes, the butcher and
(Inspector hops off).
“C.Q.”: Ulfried Nyutonoviteh, described
as a Russian visiting Australia to study the
effects of Soviet propaganda, was recently
introduced by his female secretary to the
students of the Teachers’ College in Mel-
bourne and favored them with an address on
student revolutionary activities in Russia.
After half an hour of it a hearty vote of
thanks was passed, and Comrade Nyutono-
vitcli was handed several letters of apology
from people who were unable to be present.
A few minutes later Ulfried was back at the
Melbourne University, where he belongs, re-
moving his beard and other portions of his
make-up with the assistance of the “secre-
tary.” It was not till some days later that
the Teachers’ College knew it had had its
leg pulled.
* * * *
“Quaigh”: There is a much greater out-
rage against the traditional costume of the
Scottish Highlanders than its adoption by
Lowlanders (B. 5/10/’32) and their Aus-
tralian imitators. This is the appearance
of girl dancers in the kilt and plaid, a
common sight at Australian Highland gather-
ings and such functions as the Eight-hour
sports. No Highland woman ever wore the
men’s dress. Like their Lowland sisters they
affected the skirt and bodice. I have
often wondered why some of the few folk of
genuine Highland descent in the various
Australian Highland societies have not. pro-
tested against this practice of permitting
women to wear the philabeg.
❖
“Callao”: A Mr. Insull, of
Chicago, who is wanted in the
United States for carelessness
with other people’s money,
has -found refuge in Greece,
which has refused to extradite
him. Greece must be one of
the few sanctuaries left for
such adventurers. At one
time the South American re-
publics were noted for their
hospitality in this respect,
but it gradually waned with
the march of progress. A bit
over 40 years ago Jab'ez Bal-
four found safety in the
Argentine, or seemed to have
done so, but it didn’t last—-
the British authorities re-
trieved him in the end. Bal-
four complained bitterly later
of the unfair way in which he
had been treated. The Argen-
tine kept him as long as his
considerable hoard lasted un-
der a steady drain of official
extortion. When satisfied
that the brass was all gone
the Spanish-Americans signed
a retrospective extradition
treaty with Britain, and Jabez went home to
“dock and Dartmoor.”
* * * *
“Melbourne Contributor”: As “D.” says
(B 12/10/’32), I probably find Greta Garbo
lacking in sex appeal largely because she
is thin, and I am old-fashioned enough to
prefer ’em reasonably upholstered. »tui,
my preference for fat women has its linn -S,
and I would not go so far as a Victorian
farmer did some time ago. Incredible as
it may seem, this is a true story. 3he lady
in the case is middle-aged and has nve
children. She advertised in the matrimonial
columns of a Melbourne daily, “view above,
but omitted her weight—23st. <lb. Gents,
desirous of meeting her -were advised to wear
a red rose in their button-holes and wait on
the steps of the G.P.O. in Bourke-street. Any-
body who knew her would have unhesitat-
ingly prophesied a dismal end to the
encounter. Several applicants turned up,
and probably none of them imagined for a
moment that the mountain of warm flesh
that calmly appraised them without reveal-
ing her identity was the advertiser.
Finally she made her choice, and the selected
male turned out to be a thin, tall and reason-
ably prosperous cockie from the Western
District. Moreover, he found her to his
liking, and his heroic achievement in get-
ting her into one of Mr. Clapp’s carnages
and subsequently transporting her to Ins
holding on a wet day along an nnmacadam-
ised track in an asthmatic car was an
odyssey which is still talked about in the
district.
“Lord Luvus” : Sex appeal is only a fashion
nowadays, and changes just like our ideas
of humor. The modern fashion of accept-
ing young females who look half-starved as
the last word in attractiveness seems to
have been set by the movie magnates. Actu-
ally, I think that the doleful Greta is a
reversion to the type that “D.” seems to
despise so much. The ideal woman at one
time was essentially “feminine” ; she took no
competitive part in man’s affairs, and
accepted his superiority with graceful humil-
ity. In due course she was superseded by
the lass who was bold enough to slyly
rouge, show an ankle, later a knee, smoke
and spot, take a job and go for a hike.
Greta represents a reversion to' the old
type; she lolls about languorously, says no-
thing intelligible, and generally acts as a
prop for crazy-looking clothes, usually the
reward of easy virtue. The boys think this
is fine.
❖ * $
“Fra Diavolo”: It is scarcely correct to
feature the Chinaman as a brigand out-
standing in ferocity. It is not many years
since the profession flourished in Italy
and Greece, and indeed it is very far from
SPARING HER FEELINGS
“Can your baby say ‘daddy’ yet?”
“No, mummy isn’t going to tell her who daddy is until she gets stronger."
having been stamped ont in countries like
Sicily. As to ferocity, no Chinaman could
be more ruthless than the Greek practi-
tioners who captured a large Euro-
pean tourists near Marathon in 1870. Eord
Muncaster, leader of the party, and some
women members were released to treat for a
£25,000 ransom. When troops moved
against them, the brigands promptly killed
the four men held as hostages. One of
these, Alfred Vyner, was a member of an
old Yorkshire family. Over a dozen years
later I came to know these folk, and the
shadow of the tragedy still lay heavily on
them in the North Riding.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A deputation from Won-
thaggi (Vic.) called on the Assistant-Minister
for Railways in Melbourne to plead for sup-
port for a briquette-making plant to utilise
the slack coal. Wonthaggi’s Mayor carried a
specimen brick in his hand, and to prove his
claim that it was as well bound ns the. Yal-
lourn article he threw it dramatically
against the wall. It flew to pieces amidst
a silence that could be felt,
* * * *
“Orb” : All this chatter about our “awful”
accent leaves me quite calm. More often
than not the criti-
cisms are levelled
at us by someone
with a broad Doric
drone, a shrill
Cockney twang or
a Yorkshire burr.
Besides, where is
the standard of
good English to be
found? Bernard
Shaw has recorded
that when he and
two other eminent
persons were select-
ed a.s arbiters of
the best English
pronunciation for
the benefit of the
British Broadcast-
ing Co., they
couldn’t agree.
Where are we to
look for the really
perfect speaker?
Lewis Casson,
leading man for
Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike, made Mac-
beth talk of
“goots” of blood,
meaning “gouts,”
as Shakspeare
wrote it. I heard
Archbishop Head —
unquestionably a
cultured m a n—
preach in Mel-
bourne lately. lie
referred to the
Almighty as “Gu_d.”
and told us about “Gud's providence.” It’s
all very trying.
* * * *
“D”: Pro-Revolution films are reaching
Australia. In one George Bancroft re-
presented a sadistic Bolshie who. after
slaughtering a number of effete Russian
aristocrats and their supporters, won his
way to safety and the love of a nice girl.
Lionel Barrymore followed with a study of
an American Senator who was embittered
by the machinations of high financiers. His
big moment was a speech in favor of Com-
munism. It may seem strange that the
millionaires who control the great Holly-
wood companies should propagand against
their own economic order in this way, but
it is characteristic. They correspond to the
Hebrew dealer in old clothes who, when a
customer complained that the suit smelt,
cried “Ith me that thmells.” Anything for
business. The films are fairly reliable social
barometers. They began making mugs as
well as villains of Wall-street magnates some
time before the stock boom burst. I suspect
that a craze for speculating about Bolshev-
ism is going to succeed Yo Yo and sausage-
an’-mash parties in the suburbs.
:J: ❖ * *
“F.S.” : The deportation of Mrs. Miller, the
Melbourne airwoman, from U.S.A. on the
ground of “moral turpitude” is one of those
pious gestures no Washington Government
can refrain from making, despite the ridicule
its own writers pour on it. M hen Maxim
Gorky went to New York by invitation and
it was discovered that he was travelling
with a lady not his wife, every hotel door
was shut against him and he and his com-
panion had to spend the first night of their
visit in a cab. The picture of Auntie Sam
drawing her skirts away from the corrupting
touch of one solitary individual is diverting,
in view of the version Americans give ot
their own society in their movies.
* * * *
“Whitehall” : The stupidest of all the rea-
sons I have heard for shifting the Sydney
Cenotaph is that people don’t salute it often
enough where it is. Stand in the great
square at Milan and you will see a large
proportion of the men take off their hats
as they pass the Cathedral; the proportion
is smaller outside Notre Dame or the Made-
leine in Paris; smaller still, even in the case
of Catholics, outside Westminster Cathedral
or the Oratory in London, and it is infini-
tesimal among Sydney Catholics who pass
St. Mary’s Basilica. Of a dozen Sydney
Catholics I know not one salutes the mother
church of his city in this manner. It doesn’t
mean disrespect, but simply that they are
Australians and hate being ceremonial by
themselves. Incidentally, the proportion o!
Londoners who salute the Whitehall Ceno-
taph is insignificant, and growing more so.
I passed it on a crowded ’bus a few sum-
mers ago, and found myself the only hat-
raiser present. A few days later I had
the curiosity to stand and watch those who
were passing on foot. The number of
saluters was about one in ten ; and this part
of London is frequented chiefly by Govern-
ment officials and sgldiers. In any event, the
cei’emony means nothing at all. Just as an
Australian Catholic wh o wouldn’t drgam of
taking off his hat to a church may be more
religious than a southern European who
wouldn’t dream of passing a church without
saluting it, so a man can be a patriot, with
a profound respect for his country’s valiant
dead, who takes no notice of a cenotaph on
normal occasions. It is all a matter of
racial temperament and habit.
* * $ *
“H.W.S.” : After a good many years' agi-
tation for road or railway connection with
the “lost province,” Hobart people can now
travel to the West Coast by road. Easy
money from the Commonwealth Roads
Fund provided nearly £140,000 of the cost,
but the State had to find about £35,000.
and now there is an agitation for twice
that amount to link up the North via Delo-
raine and the southern shore of the Great
Lake. The new road climbs over some of the
wildest, scenery in Australia —it reaches
2700 ft. over the shoulder of Mount Arrow-
smith —and is covered with snow for a good
part of the winter. Whether the Speck can
afford the luxury is more than doubtful,
but there won’t be anything doubtful about
the cost of keeping it in repair.
* * *
“Naklioda”: The unwritten law. with
Oriental variations, cropped up in a Singa-
pore court the other day. A Chinaman was
accused of the murder of a compatriot. The
dead man had been found with his throat
cut and a five-inch nail driven into his head.
Evidence was given that the accused had
suspected the corpse of having eaten his
rice without a permit—in English, committed
adultery with his wife. The case was dis-
charged on insufficient evidence, but curiosity
prompted the Judge to inquire why the mur-
derer, whoever he may have been, had supple-
mented his already effective work by driving
a nail into the victim’s head. A witness sup-
plied the information that the parties were
all Holden Chinese, and amongst the Hokiens
it was the custom to drive a nail into the
head of a man who was found committing
adultery in order that he should not be born
again to trouble the domestic happiness of
husbands yet unborn.
URGENT MESSAGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Gabb said that he had seen and heard
members of the last Federal Parliament making trunk-
line telephone calls, for which they did not pay,
to back horses with bookmakers in State capitals.”
From Canberra, from Canberra, the power-
house of politics,
Think what momentous messages go Hash-
ing, night and day!
I’ve often wished I had the power to tap
the wires for just an hour,
To get as ’twere, among the strings pulled
by our legislative kings
And hear the confidential things to pals
they have to say.
From Canberra, from Canberra, they switch
you on to anywhere,
To Brisbane, Sydney, Yarraville, to Adel-
aide or Perth;
They give you chances, should you please,
to word a mate across the seas,
Witness the converse, soft and low, that
Scullin (Jim) and Lyons (Joe)
Held not so very long ago from either
end of earth.
From Canberra, from Canberra, the hub of
all the Commonwealth,
Where lordly Reps, and Senators hold
high and long debate,
What secret hopes and telltale fears, meant
only for one pair of ears,
Must start their journey on the ’phone, in
unimpressive monotone,
What items (were they only known) big
with a nation's fate!
From Canberra, from Canberra, what enter-
prising journalist,
Alert for scoops and copy hot, but
wouldn’t prize a hint
About the nature and the trend, about the
purport ahd the end,
Of information members send, ear-marked
for some exclusive friend,
The stuff that runs no risk unpenned of
getting into print.
At Canberra, at Canberra, those switch-
board lads and hello girls,
I used to reckon them in luck, I candidly
allow;
They stood or sat behind the scenes and
watched the gods in the machines;
They couldn’t help but hold the keys, though
sworn-to-secrecy trustees,
I thought, to lots of mysteries. I’m none
so certain now.
From Canberra, from Canberra, whence
winged words go fluttering,
It’s all too likely to be this upon the
breezes cast:
“That you, old Skinthelamb. what cheer?
Yes, Scroggins, M.H.R., is here.
Two notes, s.p., on Flying Yid. You heard
that clear? Too right, you did.
Good. And, hold on there, just a quid on
Snaffles for the last.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The Listening Insect”: There is noth-
ing like radio for providing curious con-
trasts. The other night the infant, having
grown fed up with’ his rattle, was twisting
the knob of the listening outfit when the
voice of Henderson, the British Laborite,
smote the air, closing an interview with
some well-rounded periods on the need for
peace and the passionate desire of all the
peoples of the world to have done with
national envy, hatred and jingoism. Then
3LO announced that, the short-wave broad-
casting being over, it would close down,
handing over the ether to 3AR. I tuned
in to hear what that station was doing.
It was in the middle of a community sing-
song. The community singers were beefing
out “Sons of the Sea, all British born,
sailing every ocean, laughing foes to scorn;
they may build their ships, my lads, and
think they know the game, but they can’t
build Boys of the Bulldog Breed who made
Old England’s name!”
* * * *
“Bangemall”: With gold at £6 an ounce
fine in London, the fillip given to mining it
in almost every part of the world has been
accentuated. It isn’t all new gold that is being
sought, either; the old is just as precious. As
a source of supply it is a case of India first
and other countries nowhere. For centuries
WHILE THE GOING’S GOOD.
CORAL: “Yes, dear, I’m going to be married in two months’ time.”
Mabel. Really, darling; but I thought you didn’t care for men?”
CORAL : “Neither I do; but this one proposed to me.”
gold has been industriously and tenaciously
hoarded in India. It has been said that,
while the West valued the precious, metal
for what it would buy, the East prized it
for itself, but this is only a half-truth ; before
banks arrived hoarding was the easiest way
of keeping riches in safe deposit, and the habit
persisted. And even now the stacked-away
wealth of India, perhaps the most poverty-
stricken country of all where the bulk of
the population is concerned, is incalculable.
An American paper computes that during
a recent six months more old gold came out
of India than new gold from the mines of the
Randt, though the Transvaal produces nearly
half of the world’s annual output. And it
is quite possible that the outward flow is
only beginning.
* * * ¥
“Biltong”: That amazing person Do
Valera, in his latest abortive conference
with British Ministers, produced a bill for
300 millions-odd, which represents, according
to him, England’s undischarged indebted-
ness to Ireland, along with interest, for the
last three centuries or thereabouts. It is
hardly surprising that the tardy serving of
this account has done nothing to solve the
impasse. Oom Paul Kruger, after the Jame-
son raid, sent Britain a large bill for
damages, including tbrea millions “for
moral and material injury to the South
African Republic.” The House of Commons
received the demand in a puzzled way,' and
asked for it to be re-read. After that, there
was an outburst of unrestrained mirth. Dei
Valera must be quite as humorless a person
as Oom f*aul.
=l= $ ¥
“Chevroford”: A queer theft was the re-
moval from a traveller’s car in a Vic. town-
ship of a diathermy plant. It was found
later damming the floodwaters in a culvert.
It would be interesting to speculate what
would have happened if the temporary owner
had attempted to' use it. The rays pro-
duced in diathermy are used to bring heat
to diseased tissues deep in
the body, and operated in-
expertly they cause burns
on the skin which take
months to cure. The volt-
age required to produce
them is sufficient to cause
paralysis or death if incor-
rectly applied. It was per-
haps fortunate for the
thief that he got rid of
the infernal thing, no
doubt after discovering it
was not the latest in list-
ening sets.
“Iverys”: To a private
hospital in a Sydney sub-
urb was borne an elderly
bachelor, the Croesus of the
place. He was a trouble-
some inmate, and the nurse
detailed to look after him
was not sorry to see him
depart. He disbursed no
gifts on going, but a large
parcel addressed to his
special attendant came a
few days late/ and aroused
intense interest among the
staff. It contained the
woollen bandage the thrifty
old gentleman had worn on departing, which,
he. explained in the attached note, he thought
might be utilised for another patient. He
also added that as he was returning it in
good order and condition he expected the
cost to be deleted from his account.
* * :!: *
“Binduli” : The death at Sydney of Wil-
liam Ford, one of the finders of Coolgardie,
stirred up a flood of reminiscences in the
dailies about that epoch-making event in
Westralian goldfields history. Most of them
were conflicting, even with regard to the
two principals, but little else was to be
expected—even the historian Battye writes
of “John” Ford. And where there was agree-
ment it wag mostly on inaccuracies. Arthur
Bayley, according to several of the commen-
tators, died within a year or two of the big
strike; actually he died in 1896 in Victoria.
Other chroniclers inferred that Bayley and
Ford worked their reward claim and took a
fortune from it. Certainly they got a deal of
lightly-won gold from the cap of the reef,
but the “fortune” was supplied by Sylvester
Browne and others who bought out the
prospectors and floated the property. There
was no fortune in it for the shareholders ;
Bayley’s Reward, as a gold producer at
depth, was dead almost before Bayley, though
there were many later efforts to resuscitate
it.
* * * *
“Shellback”; Australia saw the youngest
stewardess on record the other day when
the Norwegian tanker Osthav called in.
The daughter of skipper Hansen is but 21)
months old, but Signe, as
she is named, is on the ship’s
books as assistant-steward-
ess, her mother filling the
senior position. The reason
is that under the American
immigration laws mother or
daughter could not remain
within American jurisdic-
tion unless they were bona
fide members of the ship’s
crew.
MAN’S INHUMANITY.
“But why did you break the engagement?”
“Because he was cruel—he took me to the most expensive hotel for dinner, and
knew it was my starving day.”
“Anti-venine”: Touching that par .about
Maine going “dry” (B. 19/10/’32), the
story still lingers of how a body of Maine
citizens made a presentation to a highly-
esteemed member of their community. It
was a fine silver-headed cane. “It’s genuwine
Malacca and silver, Gunnel,” said the spokes-
man. “An’,” he added in an undertone,
“it holds a pint.”
* * * *
“Le Glorieux”: “Whitehall’s” contention
(B. 5/10/’32) that moonlight steeplechasing
would be impossible under any conditions
in the congested south of England is ridi-
culous. The home counties might afford
few facilities, but anyone fool enough to
desire a cross-country canter by night would
find room enough in. Somerset or Devon,
Wilts, Dorset or Hampshire. There are
still plenty of open spaces in the south of
England, so much so that I have known a
good Queensland bushman to get lost in
foggy weather within a very few miles of
the little village of Porlock, Devon. I
have myself ridden as much as 20 miles
without meeting any obstruction beyond
those imposed by natural conditions.
* * « *
“Rouge Dragon”: I have been studying
an article in a Chinese magazine setting out
the descent of the Chinese from Adam. The
preliminary brackets of the pedigree make
n‘o mention of Eve, but show Abel, Cain and
Seth as sons of Adam. Abel is briefly re-
ferred to as “killed by Cain,” and the latter
is dismissed with the label “unknown and
forgotten.” But from Seth the line descends
direct to Noah and his sons, and it is claimed
that Shem founded the Chinese nation in
244 S b.c., Japhet and Ham doing the like by
the European peoples and those of Arabia,
India, Egypt and Ethiopia respectively. The
Japanese %ire evidently regarded as an up-
start lot, for their foundation by Jectan, a
son of H'eber, does not occur for some cen-
turies later.
>;: *
“Tittlebat”: It had to come. The most
popular of American magazines now prefaces
its table of contents with the standing assur-
ance that “the names of all characters in our
stories, and semi-fiction articles that deal
with types, arc purely fictitious. If the name
of any living person is used, it is simply a
coincidence.” One speculates how many
threats of libel actions lie behind that
announcement, especially as no novelist ever
invented a surname, however fantastic, that
wasn’t liable to crop up in real life. Apropos,
in the N.S.W. Assembly the other day a
member named Quirk delivered himself of
a few remarks. When Samuel Warren put
the legal firm of Quirk, Gammon and Snap
into “Ten Thousand a Year” —and, incident-
ally, paved the way for Dickens’s Dodson and
Fogg—he was doubtless selecting the most
improbable names he could think of. Yet
if there had been a lawyer named Quirk
who considered himself aggrieved by the
portrait of a type it might have been awk-
ward for the author. He was on safer
ground Avith Gammon.
*.* * *
“Lord Luvus” : When are Australian poets
going to give the bush a rest and turn to
other fields? I have just travelled through
some hundreds of miles of virgin bush and
found it quite as monotonous to the eye as
Marcus Clarke ever pictured it. My tour
happened to end at the top end of Collins-
street, Melbourne, on a soft spring
afternoon, when imported planes were just
budding into leaf. In the gathering dusk
motorists were turning on their lamps.
Buildings, bad examples of every kind
of architectural style, had become beauti-
ful patches of color, descending the slope
towards Spencer-street in unimaginably
subtle steps of gradation of tone until they
faded right into the sky. One side of the
picture was framed by the great tawny
tower of the A.P.A. building, looking twice
its actual height; the other by the concrete
escarpment of the new Manchester Unity
edifice, refined to almost Gothic delicacy of
line by the builders’ scaffolding. Against
it the Town. Hall, which used to look suitably
impressive, was a squat grey silhouette.
Closer inspection of the Manchester Unity
structure revealed an escalator conveying
people up to the first floor. I am willing to
accept the statements of the poets that the
bush teems with wild nature, if you know
where to look for it, hut all I saw on my
tour was a dead sheep. I found human
nature on the escalator vastly preferable.
Further to get the gum-trees out of my
system I went along to the old Melbourne
Gaol. They could build even walls beauti-
fully then, and there is an arched entrance
to the flagged exercise yard which is lovely
in the extreme. I suppose the prisoners who
tramped around it had day-dreams about
freedom, but I bet they didn’t picture it
among gum-trees.
$ •!* %
“Cotswolder”: The statement that Adam
Lindsay Gordon was “educated at Chelten-
ham, Worcester and the R.M.A., Woolwich,
also keeping a few terms at Merton College,
Oxford” (B. 12/10/’32), is hardly history,
verified or verifiable, the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia” notwithstanding. Undoubtedly Gordon
was at Cheltenham College (then in its
infancy) when his father was a master
there, but as to his other educational experi-
ence the poet’s biographers, from Marcus
Clarke down to Douglas Sladen, are mostly
at variance, and it is doubtful if any of
them is entirely reliable. I believe there is
some evidence that Gordon was at Wool-
wich, but college records fail to show
any mention of his having been at Merton.
Oxford. And university registers on such
matters are singularly complete. In any
case, seeing that Gordon left England before
he was 20, it would have been hard for him
to keep even “a few terms” at any Oxford
college. Most books about Gordon’s early
life rest largely on hearsay, and Sladen’s
“A. L. Gordon and Ilis Friends” (1912).
which should have cleared up a lot of these
vexed points—for Sladen, like his subject,
was a Cheltenham boy—does little in that
direction.
❖ * * *
“Colley”: Amid all the wealth of remi-
niscences and eulogies that the centenary of
the death of Sir Walter Scott has evoked
I can find no mention of one distinction that
no later bard shares with him. He refused
the Poet Laureate’s job in 1813. with the
consequence that it went to Southey, Cer-
tainly he -was asked to succeed Pye, a very
indifferent versifier, for whose productions
one may search anthologies in vain ; still, the
venerable Dr. Bridges, who had written lyrics
that will live, made no bones about stepping
into the shoes of Alfred Austin. And, any-
how, the Laureateship, with its shadowy
duties, was worth £lOO a year, plus “a tierce
of Canary wine” (subsequently commuted for
£27), in Scott’s time, and Scott was a Scot!
* * * sj:
“.Teames” : I have been musing on the hellish
malignancy of the fate which pursues fakers.
There is no escape. The experience of the
allegedly bereaved clerk who meets his em-
ployer at the Test match is neither more
nor less exasperating than that of the cleric
who. pinches a sermon from a 50-year-old
book bought for 9d. at a jumble-sale and is
bowled out by his bishop the first time he
preaches it, or of the lover who sends his
girl an amended version of a sixteenth-cen-
tury poem as his own, only to find that it is
the only sixteenth-century poem the simper-
ing little lowbrow knows. According to my
calculations, arrived at after innumerable
embittering setbacks, the odds against get-
ting away with any kind of fake are about
the same as those against winning a prize
in the N.S.W. lottery.
TO AN EDIBLE FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Burns it was chanted the hymn of the haggis,
As a practical grace or a blessing, no less;
And truly the stuff in that visceral bag is
Nutriment-sentiment, mixed, we confess.
Saxons make jest of it; Scots have the best
of it;
Hear the pipes hail it at banquet and mess !
Pass we the Frenchified plats by the dozen,
Compounds uncertain of flesh, fowl and
fish.
Here’s to the haggis’s Sassenach cousin,
Tripe, though the gourmand ejaculates
“Pish!”
Age-old in history, less of a mystery,
Cheers for you, old British honeycombed
dish!
Graced with potato and flavoring onion,
Skilfully seasoned and properly boiled,
Simple as Faith or the epic of Bunyan,
Speed on your mission, delectably “oiled”
(True devotees shout for their pint of good
stout),
Food for the million with palates unspoiled.
Yet we traduce and disparage the fame of
you.
Electoral gabble of platform and park
And platitudes hollow are called by the name
of you,
“Orations” of Rotary, too—save the mark!
While you’re never exempt when we speak
with contempt
Of unctuous preacher or plausible shark.
So with all featureless, colorless jargon,
Out-of-date cliches and phrases o’er-ripe,
Covering humbug or masking a bargain
(Mayors and masons put this in your
pipe).
Here’s our doxology: take our apology.
Nourishing, healthful and honest old Tripe !
S.A.
BILL O’C.


n rr *Tp" 'T EZ D
©i^t I |C i\
■•mpdPP.v.v :.pt *•
PERSONAL
ITEMS
G.-G. Isaacs and Vic. Actmg-Gov. Irvine,
who first met as costs-chasers in Melbouiiie
courts, then as rivals in the Leg. Assembly
(where each was in turn Attorney-General),
and next as high-powered Judges, tore-
gathered last week in a new role. Isaacs
was Chief Scout for Australia, and Irvine
for Victoria in the Federal jamboree in
Melbourne.
Frank Anstey, Labor stalwart for half a
lifetime and one of the movement’s most
picturesque and dramatic platform figures,
broke a long silence last week in the Reps,
with a speech that was evidently intended
for a swan-song, ending with “I thank you
for your patient hearing,, gentlemen I
shall not trouble you again.” Elected to
the Vic. Assembly 30 years ago, Anstey re-
signed in 1910 and won the Bourke seat m
the Fed. House from Hume Cook. Only
at the last election was he ever hard pushed
at the poll. ' But he had only one. brief
taste of office, as Health Minister in the
Scullin Government from 1929 to the time
of the Beasley group’s breakaway.
Professor Ernest Scott, who has filled the
Chair of History in Melbourne Uni. since
1914, wishes to resign before going to a
conference in Canada, being close to
the retiring age (65), but the authori-
ties are offering him extended leave of
absence. Alike as lecturer and writer. Scott
has built up the highest reputation, having
published several valuable books on his
special subject, while three of his erstwhile
pupils—Roberts, Hancock and Alexander —
have risen to be history professors them-
selves in Sydney, Adelaide and Perth re-
spectively. The path that led the professor
to academic eminence was rather an un-
usual one; he began his career as a jour-
nalist on the London “Globe,” and coming
t 0 Australia 40 years ago drove a pen for
the Melbourne “Herald.” He then put in
nearly 20 years on “Hansard” staffs, State
and Commonwealth.
When Adelaide’s Langdon Bonytlion pub-
lishes his reminiscences he will be able to
say that he has talked with someone (his
own great-grandmother) who had talked
with John Wesley.
B. W. Hone, of Adelaide, a Rhodes
Scholar, is almost certain to captain Oxford
at cricket next year. If so, he will join
with a fellow-Australian in making history
of a sort; the other leader from down under
is N. K. Lamport, of Sydney, Oxford s
Rugby captain. Hone was a success in
Sheffield Shield cricket before he went to
Oxford; Lamport has represented Sydney
University and N.S.W. at Rugby and .was
the original scrum-half chosen for the YYara-
tahs, though he could not make the trip.
KERWIN MAEG RAITH, the Adelaide
caricaturist, the new President of the
Good Companions—a social club drawn
from the arts, law and medicine.
Dr. Cobb, dead recently in the United
States, came to Sydney in 1880 as
the first scientific officer of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture. He it was who
started Farrer on his successful experi-
ments in wheat-breeding, and he would pro-
bably have remained in Australia, where he
married and had a family, if the Govern-
ment of that day had not refused him an
increase of 10s. per week on his salary of
£5. Cobb returned to his native country to
build up a world-wide reputation.
Among the bishops at the Sydney General
Synod there was one who had played
cricket against Australians in England —the
72-year-old Cecil Wilson, Bishop of Bunbury
since 1911, and before that Bishop
of Melanesia. This divine, in his youth, cap-
tained Tonbridge School and Jesus College,
Cambridge, and, though he never got his
blue, Kent was glad of his services. He
appeared against Australian teams of the
early ’eighties when Murdoch, Giffen and
Spofforth were names to conjure with.
Dr. Rudolf Asmis, the new German
Consul-General —he succeeded Dr. Busing—
DR. RUDOLF
ASM IS, Consul-
General for Germany.
was at the same
sort of job in the
Belgian Congo
when the Kaiser
made the great
mess of things;
and Asm i .s got
home with diffi-
culty. Throughout
the Trouble he was
part of the civil
administration in
Belgium; and
when things settled
down he was sent
to help represent
his Government in
Moscow. He
found a wife there
—she was a Ger-
man brought up in
Russia, and she
had many terrify-
in g experiences
during the Revolu-
ti o n and after-
wards. The lady
speaks about half
the languages of
Europe, and has
spent the last few
years adding a few
Oriental tongues
to her catalogue.
“Scio”: Alice Springs, long regarded as
being the geographical centre of Australia,
is an isolated place to be born at, yet one
fairly successful singer of the pre-war years
in London originally hailed from there.
This was Lulu Benstead, whose father, Wil-
liam Benstead, a fine type of the old-time
bushman, was station-managing and stock-
riding up in that country' in the ’eighties
of last century. William, who was after-
wards widely known on the Westralian
goldfields, eventually drifted away to Abys-
sinia ; his daughter, who made her musical
debut at Kalgoorlie about a quarter of a
century ago, took her voice to England.
In a search for the oldest inhabitant of
Broken Hill the “Barrier Miner” dug up
Joseph Collins. Joe was tank-sinking on
Mundi Mundi—a station in the Barrier
Ranges—and one day, out horse-hunting,
came on the camp of a chap named German
Charley. It was in the lee of a big hill of
dark-looking rock; and he and German
Charley broke chunks of it off and found
some yellow-looking stuff in it. Joe and
German Charley took it into George Mc-
Culloch, the manager of the station —Mt.
Gipps—and McCulloch said it might be
worth something. Then Joe went on after
his horses; and German Charley became W.
Charles Rasp, the Broken Hill millionaire.
W. Bell Jackson, of Lisson-grove, Haw-
thorn (Vic.), who passed his 100 the other
day, was one of Melbourne’s best-known busi-
ness men in his time. Hailing from Larne,
Scotland, he struck out for himself at 15,
and the gold discoveries brought him to
Bendigo in ’52. He didn’t do much at mining
but prospered at commerce. When he
decided to take a rest at 85 he was principal
of Reyton, Dowling and Co., importers. For
many years he was a State Savings Bank
Commissioner.
George Meudell, of Melbourne, has pre-
sented the Mitchell Library with over 3000
books, maps and documents relating to min-
ing and finance. Some portions have been
catalogued and passed into the general Mit-
chell collection; others have been transferred
to the public library. The prospectuses of
companies going back 50 years have a place
of their own.
The most disgruntled Federal politician
in evidence nowadays and the one who has
taken the loss of his dignities, hardest is
ex-Speaker Makin. Yet he is still young as
politicians go; he has had a safe seat (Hind-
marsh) since he was 30 and been re-elected
four times, and in the ordinary course of
events he should have plenty more chances of
distinguishing himself. In comparison with
(say) Theodore, who has shown that he can
take the most crushing setback with dignity,
Makin might very well consider himself one
of fortune’s favorites; a man can’t be on
the winning side all the time.
Passed out at Launceston, at nearly 80,
Jack Latham, who looked after the Academy
of Music for nearly 50 years until the talkies
took charge a few weeks back. As well as
a musician he was an actor of ability,
an authority on the early days of Launces-
ton and a versatile press contributor.
Andrew Mcllwraith, who died at Salcombe
(Devon) last week at 89, was one of the
founders of the shipping line that has become
a household word. He and his brother Scot
Malcolm McEacharn, set it going in 18(5
in London, and Andrew was connected with
its activities right up to his death.
Cecil Madigan, who had a 43rd birthday
on his way to a professional inspection of the
Granites goldfield, is the right man for the
job, being Mawson’s understudy in Geology
at Adelaide University, and having also his
diploma for mining engineering. Madigan
won the Rhodes in 1910, but did not take
his Oxford degree till 1919. In between lie
had two really Long Vacations, one in the
Antarctic with Mawson, the other in France,
where he was wounded twice.
London “Punch” has had only five editors
in its 91 years. Mark Lemon held the
chair from 1841 to 1870; then came Shirley
Brooks (1870-74) and Tom Taylor (1874-
80) —all these died in harness. F. C. Burn-
and ruled the roost for the next 26 years,
when he retired; Owen Seaman, writer of
delightful light verse, with not a little telling
serious verse, and about the best English
parodist since Calverley, steps down at 71,
having just beaten his predecessor’s record.
E. V. Knox (“Evoe”) succeeds him.
Adelaide has lost a fine old sports-
man, a pillar of the turf and the hunting
field, in Seth Ferry, who passed out at 92.
The sobriquet of “The Master” followed him
from his early days with the Adelaide Hunt
Club. His turf successes, as rider as well
as owner, began over 60 years ago; he
owned some good horses and he was one of
the founders of the Onkaparinga and Tat-
torsall’s Clubs.
The grave has claimed Lewis Thomas, who
retired only a few months ago from the
worrying job of sec. of Vic. Childrens Wel-
fare Department, formerly called the
Neglected Children’s Department. He was
a State-school inspector when he accepted
the billet.
Joe Lyons will feel more comfortable at
Cabinet meetings with Allan Guy to say
“Aye.” Joe and Allan have been politi-
cal cobbers since Allan reached the Speck s
Assembly in March, 1916. When Lyons be-
came Premier in 1923 he made Allan Chief
Secretary, and handed him also the Rail-
ways portfolio in his second Ministry.
When his chief took a six months’ spell
owing to illness, Guy ran Tassie for him.
They entered Federal politics together.
With Lyons and Fenton Guy left Scul-
J. A. GUY, new Federal Minister.
lin upon Theodore’s re-entry to the
Federal Ministry, helped to form the United
Australia party and retained his seat at
the last elections. He has been a member of
the Public Accounts Committee and has
always been ready to hop into the arena on
behalf of his native State or his leader.
His dad was one of the first Tasmanian
Labor Senators. The son was born at
Launceston 42 years ago, and almost grew
up on a soap-box.
T. O. A. Hislop, Mayor of Maoriland’s
capital city, is wearing a pleased expression
just now. The indebtedness of M.L. muni-
cipalities, which is larger per capita than
in Australia, has been occasioning uneasi-
ness, and allegations of inefficient adminis-
tration have been flying in many centres.
Wellington Council’s affairs were investi-
gated by a Commission, which gave a very
favorable report. Hislop, who is 44, one of
T O. A HISLOP, Mayor of Wellington
( ML. ).
tne youngest wearers of the rabbit-skin
Wellington has ever had. is a lawyer. He
served in the Great War and was twice
wounded. In the intervening years he has
developed an interest in aviation, and w
president of the Wellington Aero Club.
Labor is strongly represented on Wellington
City Council, and Hislop, whose political
tint is less ruddy, lias a captious and some-
times turbulent crew to control, but he has
the respect of all hands.
William Steven, who died suddenly in
Brisbane the other day, was Chief Inspector
of Machinery for Queensland, and, by reason
of his office, was probably the most widely-
known man in the State service. Born in
Brisbane 62 years ago, he qualified as a
marine engineer with Howard Smiths before
joining the Harbors and Rivers Depai'tmenl.
He was appointed to the Machinery and
Scaffolding section of the P.W.D. m 1908
and became its chief 15 years later.
H. H. Dutton, the South Aus. pastoralist
(always known as “Dutton of Anlaby”), left
an estate of £llO,OOO.
T. F. Brennan, Harold Clapp’s venerable
comptroller of accounts, who is a member of
the Menzies committee that will consider
writing down the capital value of the Vic.
railways, has had plenty of experience; in
1913 he investigated the financial methods
of the Speck’s railways. H'e was selected
from the public service to act as assistant
chief accountant in the railways 26 years ago.
H. C. Hull, dead at Cape Town at 72, was
one of the survivors—there can’t b$ Many
loft —of the Johannesburg Reform Committee
gaoled by Kruger after the Jameson raid.
He got out with a fine of £2OOO and two
years in the tronk, and took his revenge by
serving in the Boer War "with the South
African Light Horse. Later he became a
member of the Transvaal Legislative Coun-
cil and when the colony was given respon-
sible government he was Treasurer under
Louis Botha. A lawyer, he was one of
those who drafted the Union Constitution
and went to England to see it through the
British Parliament.
The popular old footballer Charlie Jessop,
in the Adelaide City Council since 1925 and
well in line for the mayoralty, has resigned
his seat upon his firm (he is a lawyer, formerly
in partnership with Duncan-Hughcs, of the
Senate), becoming the council’s solicitors.
The city’s legal business was for many years
done by Wadey and Cox, which firm has
gradually changed down to Ohlstrom, the
inter-State cricketer and baseballer; and he
takes it with him on joining up with the
Edmunds-Je-ssop partnership.
From the Rev. Clyde Carr, M.P.: —
You published a cartoon ot me and stated that I
“challenged J. F. Rolleston for the Timaru seat on
more than one occasion.” . This is incorrect. I
went from Christchurch to Timaru a month before
the 1931 elections for the sole purpose of opposing
Mr. Rolleston, and defeated him. This was the
first time I stood for Parliament.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
I
as:
GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
Why pay for expensive
carting to get rid of your
refuse when you can burn
it immediately and so re-
duce your expenses, and
get rid of fly and rat pests,
which only spread disease.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
This is the most
scientific destructor
on the market.
Owing to its con-
struction, it is smoke-
less and odorless.
Used in Public
Schools, Hospitals, Factories, etc.;
also made in household size. Send
for Bulletins on Filters, Explosives,
Stamp Batteries, etc.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
PIONEER BELTING GIVES
GREATER PULLEY GRIP
Because Pioneer Leather Belting
gives greater pulley grip, it
ensures maximum efficiency on
the largest ratios. Pioneer
Belting also has up to six times
greater wearing qualities under
all working conditions. There
is a special waterproof Pioneer
Belt to suit each type of drive.
Expert advice without obligation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Made and guaranteed since 1868 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
Meetings.
The Permanent Trustee Company of
New South Wales, Limited.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
"THE FORTY-FIFTH ORDINARY GEN-
-1 ERAL MEETING of Members will be
held at the Company’s Offices on TUESDAY’,
NOVEMBER 1. 1932, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1932.
To elect one Director in place of F. N. Yarwood,
Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the Articles of
Association and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. W. R. Chaplin
and Co., Chartered ■ Accountants (Aust.) (who
retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of Associa-
tion and are eligible for re-election) and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board.
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from
October 18, 1932, to November 1, 1932, in-
clusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
23-25 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
October 18, 1932.
The
WILD CAT
LOLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
This company welded the interests of
General Motors (Australia) Pty., which set
up here in 1926 to assemble and distribute
the products of its American parent, and
Holden’s, the highly-efficient motor-body
builders of Adelaide, as from June 30, 1930.
It paid £1,111,600 for Holden’s assets, or
£740,000 less than their net book value.
Holden’s pref. capital (£550,000) was re-
turned in cash, and the 624,000 ords. were
converted (9 for 10) into prefs., and the
new co.’s paid capital became £1,527,400 in
561,600 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 965,<800 ords.
E. W. Holden be,came managing director.
Both the old businesses had been highly
prosperous. But slump hit the motor trade
such a smashing blow that, notwithstanding
drastic reduction of the staff, deep cuts in
salaries and the lowering of operating costs,
it has been impossible to escape big losses.
The following figures, showing unit sales in
each section of the business, help to explain
why:—
t — Sales N
Motor
„„ ~ , Vehicles. Bodies.
12 months to Dee. 31, 1927 .. 18,199 46 946
„ „ „ 31, 1928 . . 17,554 33,785
12 » .. „ 31, 1929 . . 13,721 26,525
12 „ „ „ 31, 1930 . . 6,338 9,206
12 „ „ June 30, 1931 . . 5,496 3,051
12 „ „ „ 30, 1932 . . 2,892 2,046
The loss for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts was £349,914, making total
losses for the last two years £866,388. That
swamped all visible reserves and £350,457
besides. Chief items contributing to the
£349,914 were depreciation (£111,869), ex-
change losses (£61,800), losses on old stocks
(£85,566) and cost of idle plant (£30,474).
The co. imports its chassis on open account.
Thus when Britain went off gold the amount
in Australian currency that had to be re-
mitted for stocks then held was increased,
notwithstanding that the Australia-London
rate dropped from £l3O to £125 in December
last.
However, only £77,661 of the year’s
loss was incurred during the last half, and that
was mostly in connection with body-building
operations. The improvement has continued.
Car sales, which resulted in a loss of £1530
m July, showed a profit of £6OOO for Sep-
tember, when the loss on body-building was
£4475 as against £5790 two months earlier.
Hence prospects of the prefs. receiving some-
thing on account of their arrears of div.s.
(£lOl,OBB, equal to 3s. 6d. per share, at the
close of next accounts) have brightened con-
siderably. They are priced at 10s. or there-
abouts m the market. The cover is 41s
lid. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it
Yy •, ~ , 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. ..£1,527,400 £1,527,400
Sundry creditors .. . . 617,993 437,571
Premises 607,527 572,773
496,654 412,444
stocks 779,724 462,238
® eb , tors » 80,184 71,552
Cash, etc. . . . . . . 225,019 137,850
The allowance for depreciation and a reduc-
f B7 ’i 69 , in , cash > et c-» enabled
£lBo,4ww to be knocked off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, mainly the
parent. The contraction in the book value
of stocks was £317,486. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus (£234,069, inc lud-
ing stock) slipped £232,865.
Amalgamated Wireless
T T . Writ- To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
i 924. • 14,505 Nil 7352 39 358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £lO2 009 141’367
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. 141’229
Profits.
t®2 6 -• 14,005 Nil 8969 5036 136,193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £54,592 190 785
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 12,196 178’589
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
Nominal
1927*. 39,036 Nil 13,886 25,160“ m
Establishment account disclosed, £49.795
1928.. 70,722 6 p.e. = 43,961 23,297 3464 2^037
Written off establishment exes., £717 24 320
1929. .108,326 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,731 20,052 4^268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4^257
1930.. 84,283 8 p.o. = 59,543 24,740 20 483
ino 1 " E£’i 96 2, ” ” 44 > 657 14,539 35,022
. 77,159 7| „ „ 56,821 21,338 56,360
♦Reserves subject to undisclosed establishment exes.
The earnings of the Beam service, which is
a pillar of the business, benefited from
a stronger flow of international telegraphic
traffic, while the placing of radio equipment
on the prohibited list of imports quickened
the output of the co.’s factories, and sales
of Radiolas were better than ever before.
This in turn helped to increase the number
of listeners’ license fees, of which the co.
receives 3s. for each one issued —on the
basis of official statistics this moiety was
worth about £50,000 for the year to June 30,
1931. Takings in the wireless-telephone sec-
tion, which has put Australia within speak-
ing distance of Europe, North and South
America, Java and Maoriland, improved too,
though it is doubtful whether this section is
yet paying its way. Nevertheless, gross.earn-
ings sprang £43,201, reaching the highest
figure yet:—
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Gross profits. . £158,032 £457,722 £421,921 £465,122
Exes.* . . 134,415 373,439 362,725 387,963
Net profit . . £23,617 £84,283 £59,196 £77,159
*lneludes losses on subsidiary.
Thus exes, took £25,238 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £17,963 better at 10.3 p.c.
on capital as against 7.9. 11,3, 10.6 and 6.4
p.c. for the four preceding years. So an
extra 1£ p.c. was sent out, making 71 p.c.
for the year, the final being at the rate of
8 p.c. p.a. The £21,338 that remained raised
the lay-by £56,360 in excess of the £49,067
of research and other exes, capitalised in
connection with the Beam activities. There
is also £219,500 (up £46,200 as against
£25 860 in the previous year) set aside
against patents (£93,000). depreciation, etc.,
and not included with the figures in the table.
The financial position further improved:—
IQOQ iqqn IQQI 1090
Paid capital. . £261,812 £744,283 £744,283
Overdraft .. 4,573
Sundry creditors 30,842 113,652 157,405 196,697
Freeholds 1 -., on , f 267,376 274,993 278,546
Plant, etc. j 140,ZU0 2 95,011 347,448 364,377
Beam service 17,489* 160,412 158,984 159,658
Shares other cos. 30,007 —-
Book debts .. 54,330 125,268 130,844 133,799
Cash, etc. .. 12,529 114,565 127,070 217,230
*lncludes unspecified amount spent on research and
development.
Thus, though £39,292 was added to the trade
debt and £20,482 to the book value of fixed
assets —this reflects the activity on the manu-
facturing side —cash, etc., was strengthened
by £90,160, and debtors’ balances increased
by £2955. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£154,332) was
£53,823.
The co., in which the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment holds a controlling interest, has
done a lot for Australia, and has had to
fight hard to keep the business under local
control. The market prices the pound shares
at 325. 6d. as against 20s. 7d. a year ago.
Allowing for the final div., the return at
325. 6d. is a shade over 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, and nothing better than an 8 p.c.
div. should be looked for. Much depends
upon the renewal of the agreement with the
Federal Government, and upon the terms.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £> £> £ £
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36,292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 .. 140,428
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28,000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,500 .. 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,060 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000' 28,000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
Farmer’s handle largely the type of quality
goods which have continued to flood the
market at cut rates, due partly to casualties
in the trade, and partly to the forced reduc-
tion of stocks by others. Also, the co. deals
extensively in imported lines, the landed cost
of which has been greatly increased by ex-
change and the tariff, competition has been
fierce, and is likely to remain so, while
fixed interest charges have pressed heavily
and other overhead has been very difficult
to restrain. Delivery costs have become a
perplexing problem, due largely to the dis-
patch of trifling parcels long distances, and
to the return of goods sent on appro. The
second payment to the sinking fund towards
the redemption of the half-million of first
mortgage debentures (they mature in 1939)
called for £lO,OOO, but interest on these de-
bentures has been reduced by statute from
6 p.c. to 5 p.c.
So, with one thing and another, net
profit was only £lO5 better, falling
£28,894 short of the first and second
pref. divs. (together £40,000). After
transferring £18,490 a s against £25,275 in
the previous year from the contingency fund
(it is lumped with sundry creditors in the
sheet), the year’s shrinkage in visible re-
serves was £10,404 And for the second time
present co. took over the business
in 1897 the ords. were passed by they had
received a steady 10 p.c. for the nine years
to the close of accounts in 1929.
-Balance-sheet figures suggest that trade
improved towards the close of accounts: —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £
Capital .. 994,415 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures.. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Other creditors 129,792 206,608 181,952 233,456
Freeholds and
plant .. 627,950 1,411,100 1,436,822 1,429,500
Leaseholds . . 1,700 —_
Stock . . 467,002 365,571 313,077 328,990
Book debts.. 101,718 84,549 77,606 115,847
Cash and in-
vestments. . 91,708 84,906 82,240 76,509
Thus to carry an extra £15,913 of stocks
and add £35,241 to debtors’ balances the
trade debt was increased by £51,504. Leav-
ing shareholdings (£18,696) and the deben-
ture sinking fund (£21,634, held by the
trustee) out of the reckoning, more or less
liquids (£481,016, including stocks) ex-
ceeded the floating debt by £247,560 at July
31, the slip being £17,104 over the twelve-
month. When the books last closed fixed
assets amounted 73.2 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total as against 51.2 p.c. six years
earlier. That means a lively turnover,
shrewd buying and a tight hold upon out-
goings if satisfactory results are to be won.
At the moment prospects are that the co.
will make a much better showing at next
balance. Hence the ords., which fetched
6s. 3d. in the market a year ago, are now
priced at 13s. The return at 13s.
would be 6.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. At
19s 6d and 19s. 3d. the first and second
prefs. return 6.1 p.c. and 7.3 p.c. respectively.
Incidentally, the pref. divs are not subject
to the N.S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
tne co. being registered in England. The
sinking fund payment, debenture interest,
pref. divs. arid 4 p.c. to the ords. would
together call for 6 p.c. on capital, reserves
and debentures combined as at July 31.
The net tangible backing was first prefs.,
£6 Is. 9d.; seconds, £5 Is. 9d.; ords.,
30s. lOd.
Yellow Express Carriers, Ltd.
Gross Net Towards
Profit. Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £
1927!. 12,758 7289 Nil 7289 71,570
Added goodwill, £7344 .. .. 78,914
1928.. 23,209 5696 Nil 5696 73,218
1929.. 29,434 9947 - Nil 9947 63,271
3s. per share struck off, Reserves.
£74,670 11,399
Added reserves, £673 .. .. 12,072
Loss.
1930.. 13,341 3760 Nil 8,312
1931.. 5,436 6537 Nil 1,775
Deficit.
1932.. 7,189 2065 Nil 290
It has been one of the most efisappointing
investments on the market. Not only have
shareholders had nothing out of the business,
but thus far £74,670 (= 3s. per share) has
been struck off capital to clear the books of
deadwood; yet the scrip has never recovered
more than a fraction of its face value in
the market, losses instead of profits have
shown up tor the last three years, and at
the momept it is difficult to find anything
very substantial upon which to hang hope.
Certainly there was an improvement of
£1753 in gross earnings (£7180) for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts, but
that was due to a lighter call for deprecia-
tion (£9415 as against £11,980 in the pre-
vious year), which is calculated on a mileage
basis. Exes. (£9253) were pulled back a
further £2720, leaving the loss at £2065, or
£4472 less than the previous year’s. Trading
conditions have, of course, improved since
the close of accounts, and the current year’s
figures should get a little help from the
reduction of the basic wage in N. S. Wales.
But competition in the carrying trade has
lost none of its fierceness, and even in the
days when the boom was at its height the
management was unable to squeeze anything
out of the business for shareholders.
Nevertheless, speculative activity has re-
cently carried the price of the fully-paid 10s.
shares from Is. 6d. to 3s. 3d. in the market.
This has been duo to (1) prospects of trading-
losses being arrested. (2) an improvement
in the financial position, and (3) the pos-
sibility of a part return of capital when
some of the freeholds, now in excess of the
co.’s requirements, can be sold. The position
as balance-sheet figures show it is as follows :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £206,415 £248,900 £248,900 £248,900
Mortgages .. 20,000 20,000 10,000
Sundry creditors 37,395 4,378. 2,230 1,532
Freeholds, etc. 67,287 121,519 121,597 121,253
Plant, etc. .. 42,768 114,683 106,112 96,471
Debtors .. 9,396 22,726 9,597 6,162
Cash, etc. .. 72,700 23,922 26,971 27,619
Intangibles .. 73,000
Thus the year’s allowance for depreciation
and reduction in debtors’ balances enabled
the mortgage to be wiped out and the more
or less liquid surplus (£32,249) to be strength-
ened by £7911, making it equal to Is. 3d. per
share. The market prices the freehold and
plant together at less than ss. in the £ of
their book value at June 30.
Griffiths Bros., Ltd.
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 35,956 7 p.c. 10 p.c. = 34,563 1393 1,425
1925.. 34,739 7 „ 10 „ „ 34,648 91 1,516
Profit on sale of property, £32,906.. 34,422
1926.. 31,304 7 p.c. 84 p.c. = 31,026 338 34,760
Profit on property sale, £lO,OOO . . 44,760
1927.. 25,597 7 p.c. 7 p.c. = 27,404 42,953
1928.. 16,011 7 ~ 34 „ „ 18,952 40,012
1929.. 23,718 7 „ o' „ „ 22,574 1144 41,156
1930.. 13,774 7 „ 24 „ „ 16,537 38,393
June, Loss.
1931.. 9,914 Nil Nil 28,479
Unexplained addition, £B4S . . 29,327
Deficit.
Capital loss, £67,064 .. .. 37,737
Written off, £12,255 49,992
1932.. 48,331 Nil Nil 98,323
This old-established tea, coffee and cocoa
concern—it set up in 1894—drifted into
rough water. After paying a liberal 10 p.c.
tor the five years after the public became
interested in 1920, it pulled out of some
of the more distant districts of N.. S. Wales
and Queensland, where trade had become un-
profitable. At the same time it went more
extensively into the tea-room business, and
added the manufacture of confectionery to
its list of activities. Some of the old free-
holds were sold at a profit, new ones were
bought and fresh shops were opened in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide. Still,
for the five years to the close of accounts in
1930 the pref. divs. and an average of 5 p.c.
to the ords. took £6031 more than the aggre-
gate net profits, apart from property deals.
Then slump and a larger crop of bad debts
brought losses instead of profits. It was the
confectionery section that gave most trouble;
and this was got rid of during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts at a capital loss
of £67,064. The trading loss was £48,331, of
which £17,334 was on account of confec-
tionery. In addition £5291 was struck off
the book value of plant, £5OOO off shares in
other cos., £1064 of preliminary exes, was
rubbed out and £9OO provided for further
contingencies. All this, after deducting the
general reserve, left the p. and 1. balance
£120,743 on the wrong side. There is an
insurance reserve, etc., of £22,420, leaving
a deficit of £98,323 at June 30. The p. and 1.
debit is to be wiped out by striking 10s. per
share off the ord. capital, reducing it to
£120,743; and the prefs.—there are 150,000
of them, 8 p.c. cumulative with priority as
to capital—have agreed to forego arrears of
divs. amounting to about £18,900 (- 2s. 6.2 d.
per share).
. The release of funds from the confec-
tionery branch and a reduction of £103,719
m the book value of stocks were mainly
responsible for the reductions totalling
£55,832 in the outside debt:—
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £391,485 £391,485 £391,485 £391,485
Mortgage, etc. 95,583 102,757 84,544 71,201
Deposits . . 80,187 35,188 24,211 22,908
Sundry creditors 48,932 55,126 66,528 25,342
Freeholds .. 155,785 121,799 126,564 125,871
Leaseholds .. 27,915 33,505 32,930 32,194
Plant . . 71,088 72,634 71,694 26,526
Stock.. .. 155,877 168,782 169,543 65,824
Debtors .. 198,013 214,907 175,336 151,660
Shares other cos. 12,274 12,254 14,499 9,499
Cash, etc, .. 7,256 2,808 3,068 1,940
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£109,472, including stocks and shares in
other cos.) was £77,691 lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1931. The board, which
claims to have cleaned up the position in
respect of stocks and debtors’ balances (and
much depends upon that), has effected fur-
ther economies and restricted credit. Hopes
aTe, therefore, that profits will now emerge.
On the market there is little business in
the prefs. The ords. are offered at 75., at
which figure the return would be 5.7 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. div. basis. Allowing for the writing
off, the net tangible cover is 11s. lOd. per
10s. ord. share, and 395. Id. for the pound
prefs.
News, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1925.. 2,019 8000* 75,485
(6 p.c.)
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
(10 p.c.)
1927.. 22,793 4000 13,970 4824 66,774
1928.. 28,091 4000 18,576 5516 61,258
1929.. 29,961 4000 19,686 6275 54,983
(2£ p.c.)
1930.. 12,651 4000 6,824 1827 53,156
1931.. 8,099 4000 Nil 4099 49,057
Capital loss, £2355 .. .. 51,412
Reduction in goodwill, £l5OO .. 49,912
1932.. 6,905 4000 Nil 2905 47,007
•Includes arrears.
The table begins at the point where publi-
cation of the “Hobart News” was discon-
tinued, and £85,000 of p.c. debentures
(since reduced to £60,500 by conversion into
shares) were issued in connection with the
purchase of the Perth “Daily News.” As
the circulation of the Adelaide “News”
climbed—it is the only daily evening paper in
the S.A. capital—the ords were handed 10
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


_ tv ,
v \
**
m
m
m
*£ %t fpz.
Xi
v->
mm
Ml
-fSSS,,
4®
*
A
AS
a
Q
L.
i&ii=
y
>3£vA-!
W
&'&*s**
'Sfc HKS
S 4
\ .V"'
WeO*
*r
- -' ' A
%±ti
inL**
All round performance wins Tests
Plume’s all-round performance will win out in any
motoring test.
Just as first-class cricket demands exceptional team-
work, so first-class motoring demands the ideal
combination of qualities in a motor spirit that
will yield all-round performance.
In traffic, up hills, and along the broad highway,
Plume combines speed and power, alertness and
dependability, and all the other virtues that appeal
to the sportsman.
pU»tri
a
Plume sets the standard for
STARTING, ACCELERATION,
SPEED, POWER, MILEAGE
PLUME
for all-round performance
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.


r you an idea worth patenting?
Gnfhth, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
Ideas —commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Gollison and Co. CMelb.). — Advt
* * *' *
Tiffin® Power ’ ,Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
k y ~j a vs’ elect vie and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
Hits and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* #
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
® e P ly with some details to
c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
* * * *
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East— Advt
* * * '
rr™5 AN £I ES AND livesay range explora-
The prospectus of the GOLDEN CENTRAL
EXPLORATION (N.L.) has just been issued. Autho-
ri . se d Capital, £50,000, divided into 500,000 shares
of 2/- each. It is proposed to secure options, grants,
leases, etc., in Central Australia and elsewhere.
Prospectuses can be obtained from members of the
.Sydney Stock Exchange or direct from the Secretary,
Geoffrey Mears, Eldon Chambers, 92b Pitt Street’
Sydney. ’Phone: B37l3.— Advt.
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
/ S i . yo “ r ,. Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(.Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-six years’
experience in the administration of Estates andi which can never
Booklet VC thC COUntry ‘ Write or call for free explanatory
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
fL ur . . . With which are amalgamated
Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital * a 7an
Reserve Fund £ fii?n’nnn
Reserve Liability .. .. ” - ” *; " S.wjooo
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St, E.C.2.
ranc es and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
-
■
...
• '!
“COLORADO
PRIDE”
COWBOY
SADDLE.
COWBOY CHAPS.
No. 74—P RINGED
CHAPS, correctly cut from
special grained chap
leather, with shaped laced
belt 78/6
Postage extra.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
35 YEARS TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING. ]
COWBOY SADDLERY
We have increased our range of ex-
clusive Cowboy Saddles, and the
Colorado Pride” is one of the latest
styles.
Write for our catalogue showing Texas
and Australian Saddlery, Whips, Collars,
Plough Harness, Show Harness, Trotting
Goods, etc., at reduced prices to suit
present-day needs.
STATION
STOCKWHIPS,
all kangaroo-
plaited inside
bellies.
No. B—With 10-plait
handle and 7ft.. 10-plait
’thong 19/6
No. 9—With 12-plait handle and Bft.
12-plait thong 25/-
Postage: N.S.W., 1/-; Q'land, Vic., l/«
p.c. wit]) increasing- margins. Later the
•News’ and “Advertiser” cos. (the Mel-
bourne ‘ Herald ’ people had become inter-
ested in the “Advertiser”) exhanged £150,000
of their ord. scrip. The “News” is to get
the equivalent of its own div. up to 10 p.c..
phis anything more the “Advertiser” may pay.
But the co. has been unable to offset the
slump in earnings (due mainly to shrink-
age in advertising revenue) by savings in
outgoings, and the ords. have had a dry
time for the last two years. Gross earnings
fell from £226,580 in 1929 to £161,239 last
. the , dr °P was £9468. Exes.
(±104,334, including provision for contin-
gencies) were got back £8628 for the twelve-
month. Allowing for the pref. div., there
was enough to show 0.8 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 1.1, 2.4, 13.1, 12.8 and 13.5 p.c.
back to 1927.
During the year the Port Pirie “Re-
corder,” which had been a drag, was sold
at a loss To cover this and the anticipated
loss on the Ilobart freehold (sold since the
books closed) £2355 of reserves were rubbed
out. Goodwill (now £73,500, not treated
as an asset herein) was reduced by £l5OO
Also the old “Sunday Times” (Sydney)
plant was bought and installed chiefly at
1 erth, and the premises there were extended
were is the position so far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £191,875 £398,555 £398,555 £398,555
Debentures . 60,445 60,500 60,500
Other liabilities 18,243 83*040 59,209 65,832
Freehold premises 39,322 117,351 114,036 113,402
Plant & fittings 53,980 81,542 75,966 71 927
Stocks .. 26,109 25,797 18,551 18 084
Book debts,
shares in other
cos., etc. .. 7,082 266,095 262,595 276,390
Cash, etc. .. 4,248 99 59 77
Thus to add £13,795 to debtors’ balances
and _ shareholdings, including advances to
subsidiaries, the co. went outside for an
extra £6623. The real financial position is
obscured by the untidy blanket entry.
Interest on the debentures, which mature
in 1936, has been reduced to 6 p.c., and cir-
culation of the eo.’s Adelaide papers has in-
creased. Much will depend upon how things
pan out in the W est. The market prices
the ords. at 155., at which figure the return
would be 6 p.c. on a 4J p.c. div. basis. At
s°u- ° f ' * . ® P*c* P r cfs. return 6.2 p.c.
subject to intangibles in the subsidiaries
the net tangible cover is £7 os. 7d., prefs.:
17s. 3d., ords.
Mount Lyell turned out 3186 tons of
copper, 49,7520 z. silver and 14260 z. gold for
the quarter ended September 30. The figures
bettered the previous quarter’s by 301 tons,
10,181 oz. and 1390 z. respectively. The gold
output is worth about £lO,OOO per quarter,
but electrolytic is fetching only £36 10s. per
ton in London. Copper production is now
approaching the estimated capacity of the
plant, 13,000 tons annually. Increasing ton-
nages of low-grade ore have been drawn from
the Lyell Comstock, and the average grade
has fallen to 3.5 p.c. copper compared to 5.7
p.c. when only the North Lyell ore was treated.
Ihe concentrates, however, now carry 21
P-c. copper as against 19 p.c. formerly, and
fhat has helped to further reduce costs,
which are about half what they were before
the tunnel was driven.
* * *
After six weeks’ work with the pilot
plant, the big mill at Mount Morgan
has been started up. The quarry has
been opened out, and the arrangement of
roads, inclines and the vertical hoist makes
it possible to now haul much more than 100
tons per shift. The mill is scheduled to
treat a gradually-increasing output until at
least 500 tons of ore a day are going through,
when satisfactory profits are expected to be
earned. A new issue of 20,000 £1 shares
” een made at a small net premium.
P ai d, it will raise capital to
±110,3.14, thus placing the co. in a position,
with the help of the Queensland Government
and banking facilities, to carry on.
❖ * * £
N £ W »® uinea Goldfields has not yet had
m . a , ,°i- a chance to show what it can do
.with. its new mill. The usual difficulty of
* unskilled labor has been inten-
sihed. by extra-heavy rains. The plant
is being run on a small tonnage, and the
crews are being trained. Progress reports
continue to show excellent assay values, but
aii 1S I PV I retm ' n . s ti ia t are anxiously awaited.
ZiQoo la l recoveries for September were worth
±4823 (Australian currency). The pound
shares fetched 7s. last week-end.
Jim Hebbard, former manager of Sul-
phide Corp., who has inspected The Gran-
ites, says there is a large, well-
defined ore body traceable for some
distance and undoubtedly auriferous. He
adds that a rich vein, which may parallel
the whole system, is enclosed by auriferous
schists, to the presence of which he attaches
importance. Though not very informative,
the report is more satisfactory than much
of the press gasconade with which the
public has been regaled of late. The place
is being rushed from all over Australia on
the strength of press propaganda, • and no
one can definitely say yet whether The
Granites is a duffer or another Ivalgoorlie.
In view of its isolation and the lack of
water, there are considerable risks to the
adventurers making for the new field.
* * * *
The Conrad silver-lead mine at Howard
(N.S.W.) may re-open. After a lapse of some
16 years E. C. Walker, the first assayer em-
ployed by the old Conrad Co., and his two
sons have taken up the leases and installed
an experimental plant. The idea is to try
out a process evolved by Walker years ago
for the treatment of these complex ores. A
first parcel of about eight tons of ore is
said to have been successfully treated. The
formation of a co. is under consideration.
Much will depend upon metal prices and
exchange.
* * * *
Queensland’s gold production to the
end of September reached over £85,619,000,
representing 20,156,587 fine ounces. Of the
lot £27,250,000 has come from Charters
Towers, £20,000,000 from Mount Morgan
and £13,500,000 from Gympie. Other fields
which have exceeded the million-pound mark
are the Palmer (£5,250,000), Ravenswood
(£3,500,000), Croydon (£3.000,000) and
Ethendge-and-Oaks (£2,500,000). All these
are still fair producers, and there is a lot of
low-grade friable stuff at the Oaks which
could probably be treated at a profit if
tackled on a large scale.
* & #
“Old Warden”: Another gold find is re-
ported from Hawkwood, about 50 miles s.-e.
of Cracow (Q.), and on part of the old Eids-
vold field. Mining has been going on in the
district for many years, but nothing extra-
ordinary has come out of it to date. The
Brisbane Prospecting Co. has acquired
options and leases over several established
properties, including the Hope of Hawk-
wood, Narayan and Goldcrest, the considera-
tion for the first tw 0 properties being £lO,OOO
cash,. plus some shares, if the option is
exercised. Narayan has been developed to
an extent, a shaft having been sunk to 50ft.
and a drive made 35ft. along the line of
the reef, which is 4ft. wide. Assays of stone
shot from this reef are said to have gone
Joz. sdwt. of gold per ton, with a fair silver
content. The Hawkwood claim is to the
north of Narayan and the Goldcrest to the
SOU • , Little development has been done
on either of them. Another show re-
ceiving attention is the old British Empire,
near Gayndah. It was long ago abandoned,
but recently a miner .named Morgan and
three of his sons started to clean out the
old workings. After a hard battle the party
came upon some good specimen stuff, and the
usual rush has set in. Two of the old shafts
have been cleaned out, and the party is now
driving under the old workings Where the
reef has been cut in one of the shafts it is
s? w i de and showing good
rw' f The .i Morgans had a narrow squeak—
Inna f T d the y. were working on freehold
land under a mining tenement which onlv
flmWova I , ease holds. However, a dash to
the M arden s office at Eidsvold before any-
one else took a tumble remedied the mistake
* * * *
( NTM S r? 111, ” ear ,. t j ie old Canoona
held (N.Q.), the mam shaft is down 55ft
and is showing good prospects. The three
° f A stamps Seated 15 tons for 17oz.
fi mg August. A five-head is to be erected.
A party working the old Britannia, near
a ? oan,a . recently took out 2 tons for 2oz
lidwt. Trenching on another outcrop shows
good stone up to Ift. thick Canoona
land ° f t t ? e first / old rush in Queens-
„i? d \ . T he metal was discovered in shallow
alluvial on Bonny Doon Creek in 185 S but
was worked out within a few days, much
rushed “tTtY °l *2™ i- 6 ’ ooo “en'who had
woia 6d to find - Since then the only
gold recovered there has been from reefin-
* * * * 0 '
Some promising claims are being worked
on the new Mitchell River goldfield (N.Q )
On the Auriac an underlie shaft is down
38ft on a reef 18m. wide, which prospects
up to 20z.; at the Golden Drop a shaft has
been sunk 20ft. on a 42in. reef carrying
good gold, while the Golden Crest shaft is
down 15ft. on a 41ft. reef, prospecting half
an ounce. When the five-head battery now
being erected gets to work, a more definite
idea of the value of the claims should be
gained.
* * * *
Castlemaine, once one of Victoria’s im-
portant gold-getting centres, is harking back
to the game. Recently a co. was floated in
two hours to tackle the deep leads at Guild-
ford, near by. The lease applied for covers
1250 acres, and includes both the Old and
New Plateau shafts. These were sunk by
an English co. years ago at a cost of £7OOO,
but the property was abandoned after the
death of the original manager. The co.
claims that its ground contains two and a
half miles of proved alluvial lead, and hopes
to provide work for from 150 to 200 men
tor the next 15 years.
* * * *
Overseas interests have been granted till
the end °f 1933 to carry out a search for
geld and other minerals in the vicinity of
rn. e Pieman .River, on the Tas. West Coast,
ihe Meredith Range, which is the main
watershed of the streams emptying into the
I leman, and believed to be the source of the
alluvial gold discovered, has never been pros-
hooted. The late Con Curtin, Inspector of
Mines, spoke of it as a new belt of mineral
country for gold, tin and osmiridiutm. He
compared the tin he came across with the
Bischoff, which paid £2,539,500 in divs.
* * 'lf.
Beaconsfield Gold Mines, floated in Laun-
ceston (Tas.), is putting up a battery to
treat alluvial at Cabbage Tree Hill, close to
whore the old Tasmania produced over
£3,000,000-worth of gold. A reef has been
picked up which is reckoned to be the west
leg of the Tasmania lode. In the same
locality the Alluvial Sluicing Syndicate is
exploiting Brandy Creek, another crowd is
dealing with the alluvial in Bruin’s cutting
on the old Tasmania leases, and a third
party is testing the North Tasmania mine.
The hydro-electric transmission line runs
through the field, and that is a help.
* * * *
Westralian Minister for Mines Seaddan
has come to the rescue of Kalgoorlie tribu-
tors with an amendment of the Mining Act.
This provides that tributors shall receive
not less than 50 p.c. of any premium on
gold. _ They are also l to be protected against
inequitable terms in a tribute agreement.
It is not. proposed to make the new law
retrospective. Although tributors have
claimed the exchange, the mining cos. have
demurred. A test case was brought against
Gt. Boulder, and it will probably be decided
by . the Privy Council this month; mean-
while £150,000 is locked up.
* * * *
London regards Wiluna as one of the most
interesting mining speculations of the day;
it has not yet decided whether the show'is
a mine or a goldfield. The property is nearly
two miles long by half a mile wide. Of this
area only a couple of thousand feet or
thereabouts on the strike of the lodes has
been tested at depth. Development con-
tinues satisfactory; when it is further
advanced and the board decides to divert
profits into the pockets of shareholders,
Wiluna’s real capacity as a mining invest-
ment should show up.
* * * *
After seeing Wiluna and Lake View, J.
H. Curie declined to say anything regard-
ing the value' of either show. He did, how-
ever, express the opinion that the efficiency
of mine labor had improved considerably
since lie was last in the West. Noel Griflin,
a prominent Rhodesian mining man who
accompanied Curie, was much impressed
with the appearance of Lake View and
Wiluna, and with the mining and treatment
methods of each. He was also struck with
the size of their lodes compared with those
on the Rand.
* * * *
The old Lancefield mine, near Laverton,
is the latest to be added to the list of West-
ralian properties likely to attract the atten-
tion of B. H*. Prop, A little boring was
recently done on this property by a syndi-
cate. Some of the results were satisfactory,
but the money needed to put the show on its
feet again was reckoned to be more than
the syndicate could comfortably find.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What commissions are payable by Horni-
brook Highway, Ltd., in respect of its deben-
ture issue, etc.? —2805.
Wheeler, Foxall and Co. agreed to procure
subscriptions for 5850 shares and for the
whole of the debenture issue of £300,000 at
a commission of Is. 6d. per share and 325.
per £lO debenture. Of the debentures
£lOO,OOO worth has been underwritten- b\
J- M. Gray Buchanan; commission 11 p.c.
This is in substitution for and not in addi-
tion to the commission payable to Wheeler.
Foxall and Co. According to the prospectus,
the total amount set aside to cover brokerage
and underwriting is £33,000, which is the
amount allowed under the new Queensland
Companies Act.
What -is the present position of Com-
monwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances ,
Ltd.? —2BoB. '
Cannot say definitely. At Sept. 30, 1931,
net tangibles (mainly Government securi-
ties) exceeded the Life fund by £37,131.
lhe actuary has since made an overhaul
of the liabilities under policies as at that
date, but the result has not been broadcast.
However, shareholders in the Citizens and
Graziers are being asked for a bit more,
lhis Amalgamated co. took over the busi-
ness of the C- and G. and Commonwealth
Life in 1926 for £147,192 in shares—96,422
Commonwealth (paid capital
±141,159) and 50,770 to the C. and G. (paid
capital £155,504, with a further £121,779 at
call). Goodwill figured at £118,743; it has
since advanced to £120,473, due to purchase
ot the small life business of the Colonial
1 royident in 1927. Owing to State legis-
•f • e P*. an d Gr. continues to carry on
ns business in Queensland, but any profits
that may be earned there belong to Amal-
gamated.
(1) Alluvial fields within 100 miles of
A atgoorhe where an experienced man could
knock out a living? (2) Ditto within 100
miles of Norseman? (3) Is dry-stacking
feasible in these localities? (4) Docs W.A.
uov eminent assist prospectors? —2444.
vP Alluvial gold deposits in W.A. are
tlmf I l ed throughout the goldfields. Those
~ , liave “ een discovered have been mostly
worked out; many of them have been
gone over several times by gold-seekers.
JJeposits in proximity to Coolgardie
Kanowna Bulong and Kurnalpi are all
within 100 miles of Kalgoorlie. (2) Simi-
lar deposits are to be found within a 20-
mile radius of Norseman, mostly in the
tested 8 ’ taV e been thoro «gUy well
tested. (3) Cannot say. (4) No.
brief answers.
Sambo: (1) and (2) As generally understood, the
aim is to abolish the capitalistic system and all
private ownership in favor of State-controlled every-
’af that in the end means confiscation. (3)
‘*s* SO /oV - t J ' G "' Y ° U may have a eonsider-
le wait. (2) It is not good enough on present
alluvial prospects only. The reefing part of the propo-
sition is not yet fully proved. Much will depend upon
the course °f exchange.. .E.J.: (l) Doubtful. (2) Yes
. . . A.S.: MorrisHedstrom, Walter Reid, McWhirters and
United Provisions are worth consideration. .. .W.J.F.:
e integrity of the directorate cannot be questioned -
out trading conditions are such that the co.’s
prospects are anything but bright N.Q.: (l)
Scrip is not listed. (2) No. (3) 5e11.... J.W.H.:
Golden Plateau and Golden Mile afe the two most
favored on the market. Neither is vet sufficiently
developed to form any worthwhile idea as to the
value of the property.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Wolgan Shales
“Oilman”: Apropos the Wolgan shale
deposits (B. 12/10/’32). There is only one
objection to another inquiry into their com-
mercial prospects, and that is there have
been a dozen inquiries already. It has never
been lack of capital that has prevented their
exploitation of recent years; it has always
been economic conditions. Certainly our
shales could be worked at a profit given
enough protection; but that boils down to
this: llow much are we prepared to pay for
our motor spirit? In this connection it is
worth recalling that nowhere are oil-shales
being worked to-day. Even the Scottish re-
fineries have been switched .off shale and
turned on to crude oil, which is being poured
in by the Anglo-Persian Co.
The Broken Hill cos. had. these Wolgan
deposits and the plant in their hands; John
Fell and Co. passed the property over at
the scrap value of the plant. Yet, though
they could thus come in on the ground floor,
and though they had ample means, and
though they had technical staffs and were
their own market for large quantities of
crude oil for their new Diesel-engined electric-
power plant, they refused to go on with it.
Why? Was it not simply because Mr. Colin
Fraser and his colleagues were astonished at
costs? It is no use saying that everything
which had been done had been done wrong.
Granted all that, if you like. But the Broken
Hill cos. were not bound down to go on
the old lines; they had every new appliance
and process open to them, and yet they
pulled out.
It is all most deplorable, of course; but
there are the facts.
Eggs at 2s. 6d. Per Gross
“Yeoman”: At the annual conference of
Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) branches of. the Agri-
cultural Bureau, farmers complained that
they were being offered only 2s. 6d. per
gross for eggs delivered at Pt. Lincoln. At
other times the returns were only 2d. per
dozen! Sncli prices open up the question
of the great loss resulting through ineffi-
ciency of present methods of handling
eggs in S. Aus. Most of the blame is
the farmer’s. He accepts the idea that
it does not pay to take precautions to
market clean, fresh eggs, collected daily,
packed under hygienic conditions. Surely
there is scope in Australia for legislation
similar to that enacted in Canada, where
it is an offence to market eggs that are
not clean, or not fresh? If similar prac-
tices were enforced locally, consumption
would increase considerably and there would
be no glut or danger of over-production.
Moreover, the price would rise to a payable
level. Further, any surplus could be ex-
ported with safety at a profit.
The Eyre Peninsula farmers are demand-
ing facilities at Pt. Lincoln to enable them
to pulp their eggs when prices are low.
This is no solution of the problem. If
infertile eggs were produced and collected,
packed, consigned daily and put into cold
storage while still fresh, they would be
available either for the local market at four
times the prices they are now realising, or
for export at a payable price. Then fowls
on farms would be a most profitable side-
line—particularly while- wheat remains
below cost of production.
Monopolies
“Mudgee”: The Bulletin challenged me
lately to name a few Australian monopolies.
I define a monopoly as follows: “If the
whole stock of any particular commodity
or a great part of it is in the hands of only
one seller or combination of sellers, or if
the whole or a great part is demanded by
only one buyer or combination of buyers,
this fact is called a monopoly.” Some are
doubtful, but those hereunder are beyond
question:—
Approximate
Extent of
Commodity. Controlling Co. Control.
f Australian Glass Manu-7 lnn „„
Glass 1 facturers Co., Ltd. j 100 P‘ c '
„ . j Davis Gelatine (Aus.), 7 „
Gelatine j Ltd > 100 p.c.
Glue j Davis Gel “ t t l d ,,e (Aus.), | ioo p e>
Farming JH. V. McKay Massey 795 p.c.
Machinery \ Harris Co., Ltd. ) at least
f A world monopoly con-"
. I trolled by Imperial
Fertilizers, Chemical Industries, the
Chemicals, -j Au s t ralian subsidiary 100 p.c.
Nickel ana j companies being such as
Leather Clotti j Australian Fertilizers and
[ Chemicals, Ltd. J
! Dunlop Rubber Co. of ]
Australasia in combina- | About
tion with the Perdriau | , )0 „
Rubber Co. and Barnet | P
(Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.J
\ The merger was completed j
1 I in September, 1931, fol- I
Electrical -j lowing a previous British !■ 100 p.c.
Supplies merger. This is prac-
( tic-ally a world monopoly. J
f Australian Drag Houses, ]
Drugs I Ltd., a recently registered j- 100 p.c.
I combine. j
, j British Australian Tobacco 7 Over
Tobacco ) Company. j 90 p.c.
( The Colonial Sugar Re- 7 About
Sugar j fining Co.. Ltd. ) 90 p.c.
Petrol and Kerosene ~ A world monopoly .. 100 p.c.
There are practical monopolies in beer, flour,
meat and milk (in the cities only), cement,
iron, steel, ice-cream, felt hats, gas (again
cities only), motion-pictures, matches and
chocolates. If you think I have overstated
these allegations I undertake to prove them.
If you suggest that these monopolies have
been or are to the benefit of Australia, I
undertake to prove in almost every instance
that the profits have been excessive, and
that huge businesses have been built up at
the expense of the Australian people.
Marketing in “the East”
“Mish” : In marketing Australian goods in
the “Far East” the label ought to indicate
the contents. The native mind is the child's
mind, which is influenced by pictures. Our
products are sold in Java, Sumatra, Cochin-
China, Borneo, Malay States and Siam,
where English is neither read nor spoken:
the label must tell the retail native buyer
our message. I have seen the shelves of
godowms ( warehouses) in Java stocked with
unsaleable tins of Ibis brand canned fruit,
bearing the picture of a bird on the label.
The Dutch know better: their vegetable
and tomato-sauce containers are plainly
pictured with carrots, cauliflower or tomato
—ours with a bird: a white crow or pink
rosella, or something equally inappropriate.
In regard to our tinned meats, a super-
salesman could not sell a Malay a tin of
beef bearing a pretty farmyard scene of
cattle and pigs grazing. The beef would
be acceptable, but a Mohammedan would
not even handle a tin with the forbidden pig
on the cover.
Cash and Credit Trading
“Jackaburra”: The man who pays cash
hasn’t been getting a fair deal, and still
isn’t getting one: B p.c. for cash and 2J p.c.
for 30 days is ridiculous. Chain stores like
Woolworth’s and Coles’ have shown how
prices can be reduced with the total elimina-
tion of bad debts, and the greatly simplified
system of accounting where the business, is
for cash only results in an enormous saving
in overhead. The chain store, however, can
reach only the city and big-town residents,
though many of its principles could be
adapted to meet country trade, with enor-
mous benefit to thrifty cash buyers. At pre-
sent most prices are fixed on a credit and not
a cash basis; in fact, a cash customer fre-
quently pays £1 cash for the article which a
credit buyer gets for £1 less p.c. discount
for payment in 30 days. Is it any wonder
many people pay cash only when they have
to? The trader who requires cash with
order, turns down business except on those
terms and fixes his prices accordingly, is
to be encouraged.
Australian Furniture Timbers
“Beta”: Stringy-bark palings have been
used in Germany lately in furniture-making.
No doubt they showed the beautiful fiddle-
back grain so common in our eucalypts.
Years ago the chief engineer of the East
India Railway at Calcutta put a man on
to pick out the red mahogany sleepers from
a shipload that had arrived : he wanted them
for furniture. The picking out was easy,
as every sleeper had been hammer-branded
by the N. S. Wales inspector, / the brand
including the initials of the' respective
timbers. As regards the use of red mahog-
any and stringy bark for furniture, the catch
in regard to the first is that it is hard to
.get free of a minute borer, and the trouble
with “stringy” is that, with the sought-after
fiddle-back grain, it warps all over the place
and cracks badly whilst drying. I experi-
mented with veneering half a dozen moun-
tain-ash logs and visioned a fortune as the
timber peeled like cheese off the veneering
knife. But I had to write the logs off as
a total loss when the veneer went through
the drying rollers.
According to the League of Nations’
statistical department, prices rose more
rapidly in Australia between 1913 and 1928
than in any other of 31 countries listed. Its
figures went from 100 to 165. Chili was
at the bottom of the list—from 100 to 119.
The implication is, of course, that costs
moved up faster in Australia, owing mainly
to industrial legislation, than in any other
country in the world.
* * * *
Australia exports only 9 p.c. of the wheat
requirements of the importing countries of
the world. Taking the average of 1926-30,
Canada exported 37 p.c., Argentine 21 p.c.,
U.S.A. 14 p.c.
* * * *
Anthony Horderns’ big pile in Sydney is
to be modernised, though it is only about
20 years old. Plans approved by the City
Council provide for alterations that will run
into £150,000; the first instalment (£80,000)
is already in hand. The co. now lias 20
acres of shopping space in five floors. A
new main ground-floor will enable customers
to go through from George-street to Pitt-
street on the one level.; and six electric lifts
will lead from this floor to the upper five.
* * * *
The growth of German shipping since the
war practically wiped it out is amazing. Apart
from the fleet of wool ships that have borne
down upon Australia, a fortnightly passenger
service has been established. But it is on the
Atlantic that the most remarkable things
have been done. As early as 1929 the N.D.L.
Bremen crossed in 4 days 18 hours, which
wrns a record up to that time; since then
the sister ship Europa has done it in less.
The Bremen carries a catapult aeroplane to
accelerate delivery of mails; and, though this
is not available for passengers, all the vessels
operate in conjunction with aeroplane ser-
vices both in New York and at Bremenhaven.
Thyhlps mate Sou'himpton (Eng.) a port
'* * * *
“P.X.” : Ruggles wanted to buy a car of
a pretty good make but didn’t wmnt to pay
the cash price at which it was offered. So
he bought an ancient Overland for £2O,
and then went round to do business. He
inspected the models he had a fancy for
and chose one. They named the price.
“Well,” he said, “I’ve been using an Over-
land, but I’d buy this if I could trade the
old ’bus in. Could you do a deal?” They’d
have a look at her, anyway. In the end he
took the new car—at the fixed price, of
course—and they allowed him £llO on the
Overland. How did they do it? Presum-
ably they were keen to make a sale, and
were prepared to give away a large whack
of their commission to do it v .
* * * *
The popularity of the light and low-priced
car lias grown so much in the past few
years that one famous British car-building
firm after another has fallen into line and
added a “baby” type to its family. ihe
latest to do this is the Vauxhall Co., which,
beginning in England 75 years ago as a
general iron-working concern, was one or the
earliest to turn out a high-class motor-car.
The new small car will_be handled m Aus-
tralia by the General Motors-llolden om-
bination.
* * *
Of all white-men’s countries in the world
the Netherlands seem to be the cheapest
to live. in at present. Taking 1929 wholo-
sale-price figures as a base (= 100), the
Dutch average at the middle of this year
was 56. The smallest decline was in Argen-
tine, 94; then Austria 89, Maonland Bi,
Sweden and Australia 78, U.lv. 74, Canada
71, France 70, Germany 70, L.S.A. 08.
There were several on or about that mark
Switzerland and Japan among them,
* * * *
“Overseer” : I recently gave station jobs
to two boys. * A, son of a well-placed civil
servant had just left one of the secondary
schools, and, being unemployed, was given
a passage to the destination (400 miles) at
the expense of the taxpayer. B, who had
been working for a cocky for five bob per
week and tucker, was broke. His fare was
advanced against wages at 10s. per week,
which means six weeks’ work before he can
b uy a smoke. Is this our idea of “equality
0 f burden”?
*’* * *
. ~ , ~ T „„„„„ ATq( . ;
, According to t^ie . ® 1 t •
statistical department t e e L.
with a larger i u P "
{“? fcl3/SSipuKfigmS ire tor April and
May. In April Japan showed 4 p.c. more
Production than in J92S. In m l a '-J
showed 42 p.c. less, -the U.S.A. 45 p.c. <vs,
® ranee 27 p.c. less, Poland 4o p.c. less and
Sweden 21 p.c. less. The U.lv. s -nsur s are
on ly quarterly: it was showing at latest pot
more than 9 p.c. less than 1928. But 1928
was no t a good year m Britain.
* * *
A set of cricket stumps made of Queens-
land-grown silver ash has been tested by the
Valley Cricket Club and has come through
admirably. The Q.C.A. has decided to use
a set of similar timber in inter-State and
international matches. Twenty smokers’
pipes specially made from Queensland-grown
tulip-plum for presentation to the English
cricket team on arrival in Adelaide have
been forwarded by the Queensland Forest
Service. Each member will also be pro-
sented with Queensland-grown brands of
tobacco.
THE DISAPPEARING CHEESE.
“There were public protests last week against the filching of another piece of the Sydney Domain for building purposes,
and similar protests have been heard lately in almost every other Australian city.
PROPRIETOR: “I know you don’t take much at a time; but you’re nibbling, nibbling all the while.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Madame Plays Nap”
Her Majesty's “Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King's “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkie*
♦
“Madame Plays Nap,” the comedy with
which the Thorndike co. concludes its Syd-
ney season, might be made to serve as a
model illustrating almost all the worst faults
a play can possess. The theme is a hack-
neyed and oft-borrowed one, based on the
liistorically-dubious hypothesis that Bona-
parte, like the elephant, never forgot; the
characters are cut out of very thin card-
board, and not one of them exhibits a men-
tality higher than that of a not particularly
intelligent child of seven. The denouement
is disclosed at the beginning of the second
act, and the rest of the piece is superfluous.
Why people of the eminence and ability of
Dame Thorndike and her husband should
stage this sort of thing is a mystery.
The co. does its best with the very poor
material at its disposal. Dame Thorndike,
as Madame de Beauvais, a dancing-master’s
wife turned pawnbroker in the days of the
Terror, exhibits in the first act the sort of
vivacity that consists of continual bustling
about, reminiscent of those nightmare slap-
stick farces of the pioneer days of the cinema
in which the principal aim seemed to be to
make the moving picture an example of
perpetual motion. There is a Gallic type
that evinces this. restlessness, but there
seems no very good reason why _it should
have been transplanted into this setting.
Dame Sybil makes the most of the oppor-
tunities permitted her. Lewis Casson’s Bona-
parte is most effective when silent —his first
appearance, framed in the door of the pawn-
broker’s shop, in characteristic attitude and
attire, makes exactly the right impression.
As soon as he opens his mouth it is seen
that he is quite mad. Other characters are
so feebly drawn that the people who play
them can be commended only for their
courage.
# * *
Elmer Rice’s “See Naples and Die,” pro-
duced by the Pickwick Theatre Group at
the Sydney Savoy last week, is full of pit-
falls for amateurs. Carrol, a young American
(Richard Pockley), strives to lure Kune-
gunde Wandl, a Viennese (Mimi Spaull),
away from Jan Skulany, a rascally
Roumanian general (Frederick Wolf). Car-
rol’s plans are held up by the arrival of
Nanette, an erstwhile sweetheart (Bonita
Appleton), who' had been inveigled into a
marriage with Prince Ivan Ivanovitch
Ivosoff (Arundel J. Nixon), but has escaped.
.The Russian villain still pursues her. When
he reaches the guest-house where all these
people are domiciled, he plots with Hugo
von Klaus (William Firth) to kidnap the
lady. Various other characters contribute
to the building up of a tangled situation
which is straightened out by the assassina-
tion of Prince Ivosoff and General Skulany.
The Viennese lady fades out of the picture,
making the way clear for a reunion between
Carrol and the widowed Princess. Acting
honors go to A. J. Nixon (who was pro-
ducer), Leal Douglas, Richard Pockley and
Bonita Appleton.
* * *
A violinist whose technique is equal to
the demands made upon it by the greatest
composers for her instrument is Mig'ROß
Frey, who- at her recital at Sydney Con.
Hall last week played the Bach chaconne,
the Bach-Ivreisler E Major prelude and
Tschaikowsky’s D Major concerto, together
with minor pieces as arranged by Kreisler,
Wilhelmj and Paganini. Miss Frey com-
mands a rich tone, her style is graceful, and
she understands the masters she interprets.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre flew high
for its final performance of the year.
“Berkeley Square” is a lesson against
meddling with magic. A young Anglo-Ameri-
can of to-day gets back into 1780.
This theme, usually farcical, is made
romantic and sad, though there is much
quiet humor in his need for wariness; as
where, after fascinating the Duchess of
Devonshire with epigrams from Oscar Wilde,
he tells her “Of course everyone knows your
portrait by—l say, Gainsborough * has
painted you, I hope?” But soon his evident
knowledge of future events repels everyone,
and he returns to his own century, with
An impression of Ivan Menzies as Jack
Point in “The Yeomen of the Guard.”
a heart-broken remembrance of the one
cousin who has really understood him.
Downey and Patricia Hackett have most of
the story as these ill-starred lovers, with
strong “period” support from Miriam Ralph
and Elizabeth Campbell, Hunter-Watts and
Frank Johnstone. Johnstone produced, and
Mrs. Napier was called in to advise on
costumes.
* * *
Molly Ick, as producer of Perth Reper-
tory Club’s “Twelfth Night” season, scored
a success. There was a minimum of scenery,
but costumes were excellent, and the big
cast rose to the occasion. Norrie John had
a part to suit her in Olivia. Dorothy Powell
was Viola and Mabel Balding mischievous
Maria. Dr. Bill Woodhouse played Malvolio.
John Brooks was a light-stepping Feste and
Gerald Ruse and Ralph Stoddart enjoyed
themselves as Sir Andrew Aguecheek and
Sir Toby Belch. Phil ‘Shappere looked after
the stage management.
Shadow Shows.
After seeing “Movie Crazy” at Sydney
Prince Edward, this critic was reinforced
in a dark suspicion long entertained, namely,
that Harold Lloyd isn’t a comedian at all.
The pathetic heroics of Chaplin, the inarti-
culate furies of Hardy, the eager idiocies
of Charlie Chase —he has none of these, nor
any compensating absurdities. He is just
an athlete in glasses with a wooden face
and voice. Yet all his films are funny, and
“Movie Crazy” is as funny as any of them.
It is largely a matter of the situations which
Lloyd has a genius for thinking out, or getting
others to think out for him. Almost anyone
could get laughs with such advantages.
Imagine, for example, that Mr. Scullin has
gone to the cloakroom of a restaurant for
a wash and brush-up before attending a
dinner-dance, and has put on a conjuror’s coat
in mistake for his own. White mice escape
on to his partner; another partner, a fasti-
dious dowager, is sprayed by an apparatus
near his buttonhole of which he has no
knowledge; a bemused gentleman boozing
drearily by himself is driven from the
room in a panic, having been offered a live
rabbit as a dinner-course. Mr. Scullin
would only need to stand about and view
these inexplicable happenings in blank
wonderment to achieve what Lloyd does —
yells of laughter. Most of the comedy—the
“MADAME PLAYS NAP” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Norman Shelley as Captain Venatier; Dame Thorndike as Madame de Beauvais;
Albert Chevalier as M. de Beauvais; Michael Martin-Harvey as the Poet
Lavalle; Levns Casson as Nap; Bruce Winston as Ferrier (a scoundrel ).
comedy of voice, manner and expression as
opposed to that of catastrophe—is supplied
by the victims of his mistakes. This critic
liked Louise Closser Hale best, but they’re
all splendid. The proceedings culminate in
an insane sequence, which shows the hero
and a he-man whose jealousy he has
aroused fighting all over a ruined set (the
idea is that Lloyd, like Merton of the
Movies, has blundered into Hollywood from
a country town), while water pours on them
in tons, and the' staff nearly lose their
reason. They say it took two years to fab-
ricate these lunacies, and it is easy to
believe it.
H- * *
There is some fine acting by an all-Eng-
lish cast in “Frail Women” at Sydney State.
Mary Newcomb went astray during the war
and Margaret Vines is the result. The girl
and her youthful lover are unaware of the
stain on her name, and there is dire trouble
when the truth comes out. The lover —an
exceptionally futile lad—tears distractedly
between his home and the flat where Mar-
garet is living with her mother, who is the
mistress of Edmund Gwenn, a bookie; and
Owen Nares (the girl’s father) tries to right
matters by marrying the mother, who even-
tually finds the situation too complicated
and puts her head in a gas oven. A depress-
ing production; but Gwenn’s bookie is a
masterly bit of character-acting.
In most civilised countries one who has
done time for burglary finds it hard to rise
to the top of the legal tree. Not so in the
U.S.A. if “State’s Attorney” is to be be-
lieved. John Barrymore, ex-convict, is first
seen as a criminal defender. He gets Helen
Twelvetrees off on a soliciting charge, and
makes her his mistress. Though handi-
capped by dipsomania and a passion for
underworld haunts, he proves equally effi-
cacious when he is made State prosecutor.
A gangster is up for murder, and Helen
Twelvetrees has been put in the box by the
defence. Barrymore isn’t going to cross-
examine. Comes a derisive laugh from the
accused. In a flash the prosecutor is facing
the bedevilled witness, snarling question
after question till she breaks down and
admits all. The State’s Attorney is like
that—a tiger when roused, and nothing if
not spectacular. At one stage he marries
the wrong girl while drunk, but that is soon
rectified by an arranged divorce, and he re-
turns to Helen Twelvetrees and his old job
of defending necessitous malefactors. This
preposterous drama is elaborately staged
and cleverly acted.
In “War Correspondent,” at Sydney
Lyceum, Ralph Graves is a blatherskiting
'radio-reporter, Jack Holt a hard-boiled adven-
turer battling for the Chinese as General
Ching. Lila Lee is the Shanghai lady of
fortune whom they fight over and for. The
“Mongol Butcher” captures Lila, and in a
series of vivid scenes the two whites rescue
her from a whole army, Holt sacrificing his
life in the exploit. It is lively nonsense
soundly acted and produced.
“No Greater Love” lias been deliberately
designed to tear the heartstrings. There
is a moan in every shot. A dear little crippled
orphan girl, who has for playmate a dear
little boy, is befriended by a dear, dear Jew,
who sells his bithness so that the poor little
invalid may be treated by a world-renowned
orthopaedist. But hard-hearted officials tear
her from him and put her in a home full of
lusty kids, and refuse to let him see her.
Sobbing great soul-ravaging sobs, he walks
out into the rain and gets pneumonia. He is
dying in the arms of a parish priest and
a police sergeant right out of a Christmas
supplement when the cripple, who has mira-
culously become uncrippled by the healing-
agency of her Great Love, rushes in and
bids him live —for her. So he does. No
one who loves a good blubber should miss it.
ff. *
William Warren is “The Mouthpiece,” at
Sydney Regent. As public prosecutor he
sends an innocent youth to the electric-chair.
This drives him to the bottle. It also causes
him to become the protector of persons who
have fallen foul of the law. Soon he is the
town’s best defender, and an associate of
gangstei’s. And now Sydney Fox comes into
his sinful life. After an unsuccessful attempt
on her virtue, he defies his gangster asso-
ciates, is riddled with machine-gun bullets,
and recovers in time to see Miss Fox leap
into matrimony with a boyish admirer.
“Dancers in the Dark” is bunkum, too.
Miriam Hopkins is once more a cabaret
dancer whose blatant exterior hides a heart
of gold; and Jack Oakie, grinning inanely,
as usual, devotes himself to saving a saxo-
phonist from her clutches. There is a
murder, and then Miriam and her man are
united, with Oakie’s blessing. He has dis-
covered at long last that Miriafn is worthy
of the saxophonist. Terrible in its senti-
mentality, but the acting isn’t bad.
* #
“The Lame Dog Inn Mystery,” at Sydney
Haymarket, is a thriller. Eric Linden
(reporter) and his prospective bride
(Dorothy Jordan) arrive at a sinister
tavern while a murder is taking place. Eric
identifies the assassin, but for the sake of
a stahry pretends he has committed the
crime himself, and is saved in the nick of
time by Dorothy.
# * *
“Whoopee,” which has been revived at
Sydney Plaza, is a most lavish production.
The nearest parallel to its wealth of color
was provided by “Rose Marie.” Eddie
Cantor as the nervous wreck is, of course,
the central figure. As a reproducer of wide-
eyed misery there is no one in filmdom to
touch him. The Ziegfeld ballet is the other
attraction, and very attractive it is.
The Palette.
Norman Lindsay in his show at the Mac-
leod Gallery marshals 30 water-colors, not
exhibited before, 17 pen and pencil draw-
ings, mostly new, and a like number of etch-
ings, including some plates that have been
made known to a wide public. In only a
few of the new drawings is there the group-
ing of many figures which was such
a feature of the artist’s earlier work.
It is an art that
reached its perfec-
tion in the golden
age of all art, and
it may be fairly
claimed that it has
had no more not-
able exponent than
Lindsay in modern
times. The large
pen drawing “In
Vain the Chris-
tian” is in this
style. It repre-
sents a Dionysian
carnival in a Roman
setting, a conjunc-
tion which appeals
strongly to the
artist, who has
touched upon the
theme on many
occasions. Possibly
it is his affinity
for the legends of
Dionysus that has
made Lindsay par-
tial to pirates.
The god turned
pirates into dol-
phins, ,and Lind-
say turns ’em into
pictures, one of his
John Ralston as the
turnkey Shadbolt in
“The Yeomen of the
Guard.”
best examples in
this vein, and one that shouldn’t be overlooked
by visitors to the .show in The Bulletin
building, being in another part of the same
gallery.
Among the many voluptuous ladies who
figure in the latest array of water-colors, the
richest splash of color is made by those in
“Where the Centuries Meet.” An unusual
and extremely clever treatment of light is
shown in “Flesh and Foliage.” But pro-
bably the most striking picture in the
collection is “1850,” a girl in a crino-
line, with the most powerfully-drawn
face Lindsay has ever evoked. Of
Lindsay the broadly-comic artist there
are but few traces in this collection, but in
some of the etchings—notably “The King,
the Queen, the Lady”—there is a wealth of
humor of a Boccaccian sort; and in each of
such character sketches as “Captain Boba-
dil,” “Smuggler Bill” and “The Admiral, '
which figure among the pen drawings, a
whole novel is compressed into a few square
inches filled with vigorous lines.
The sampler of Clarice Beckett’s annual
show at Melb. Athenaeum is always assured
of a display of sensitive landscapes, in
which the claims of color, tone and form on
the artist’s attention are so nicely balanced
that the slightest bit of overstatement would
cause as painful a sensation as_ a wrong note
in a sonata played by Szigeti. This year
Miss Beckett has specialised in stretches of
flat beach, calm ocean and still sky that
convey the hush of windless evenings. Some-
times the foregrounds are made brilliant with
the hues of bathers’ costumes. A view of
Collins-street is a gem of tone, that recon-
ciles the spectator to the architectural de-
bauchery of that proud thoroughfare.
Tom Garrett’s show at McGrath’s Gallery
in Adelaide is a series of experiments. He
seems to go feeling about after Turner or
Corot or Hilder in turn —anything bur
strong Australian sunlight. There is a real
beauty in his wan and misty impressions of
trees. There can be strength, too, in his
stonework, and his largest picture of a flood-
bound building, quite unlike the rest, was
about the first one sold.
The late Tom Roberts, hitherto repre-
sented in Vic. Nat. Gallery only by a por-
trait, “Penelope,” makes a second belated
entrance with “Shearing the Rams,” the big
study of a shearing-shed which was painted
by the veteran 42 years ago at Brocklesby,
a Riverina station, near Corowa, and bought
by C. W. Trenchard, whose family has
owned it ever since. The Felton Bequest
paid 550 guineas for it.
“F.S.” : One reason -why our national gal-
leries are full of bad pictures is .social
snobbery. A successful nobody has a Idle-
ness done by a popular portrait painter.
When he dies his widow is naturally desir-
ous of seeing a record of her late husband
ensconced in some hall of fame, so she makes
an offer of the picture, gratis, to a gallery.
The offer is gratefully accepted and the
deceased gentleman sails into immortality.
If the painting is too awful even for the
eclectic taste of a gallery trustee, after a
decent interval the picture is removed to
the basement. Otherwise it remains, to
lower the artistic prestige of the institution.
The proper place to commemorate many of
the personages whose faces gaze at us from
the walls of our galleries is the “In Memo-
riam” column.
“Cine Ma”: The Australian screen will
never come properly into its own until it
gets producers and actors who know nothing
about the legitimate stage. At present the
art or industry is run almost exclusively by
people who have learnt their job on the flesh-
an’-blood boards, and all the recent talkies
are more or less photographic reproductions
of stage plays. For a producer to think
for the screen in terms of the stage is equi-
valent to a painter thinking of a picture in
terms of the sculptor’s chisel. The stage
is static. The screen is the most fluid dra-
matic medium yet devised. If a character
on the stage wishes to recall a past experi-
ence he. has to state it in dialogue, unless
the audience is prepared to wait while ex-
pensive scenery is being removed and more
expensive scenery put in its place. If a
character on the screen wants to recall a
past experience he can be flashed back to
the sands of Araby or the snows of Arctica
in the twinkling of an eye. Although a
recruit from the stage, Chaplin is one of
the few producers who seem to think exclu-
sively in the new medium. Most of the
others produce a bad hash of both arts.


THE AGE OLD SYMBOL
,A M
OF CELEBRATION
1
Hi
////'
t// /y/
i
f
U J?
4
V
p
2
*a
How a pair of
white horses
dispelled
an army’s gloom
The Greeks were despondent. For years
now they had besieged Troy without suc-
cess. Gloom had settled upon the whole
camp when a diversion brought the de-
jected troops running from their tents.
Into the camp had galloped two of their
generals on the famous white horses of
King Rhesus, which they had boldly stolen
by night from behind the enemy’s ranks.
An omen it seemed. Excitement ran high.
With a new, unconquerable spirit the
Greeks assaulted the walls of Troy afresh.
• • • • •
To-day, a White Horse still brings encour-
agement and inspiration to an army of men.
Tired? . . . enjoy the beneficial refresh-
ment of this mellow old Scotch spirit. Dis-
couraged? . . . feel the welcome optimism
it imparts. Take home a bottle or flask
to-night. You’ll find that the ceremony of
a nightly nobbier of White Horse helps you
to put the cares of the day behind and sets
the seal on your evening’s content.
Whit 1 ol
’’ p SCOTCH
WHISKY
if
Guaranteed Pure Scotch and
bottled only in Bond under
Government Supervision. To
the handy concave flasks and
the standard bottle is now
added the popular 2|-oz.
miniature.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
sCeramic . . 18,500 tons, Oct. 26
*Ulysses . . 14,500 „ Nov. 8
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 6
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ Jan. 10
•First class only. tCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agent 9
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds .
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders Trustees approximately
£241.341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted .. .. ... .
132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH Qu?™^Av : n N T ViCh Uni ° n Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
UKENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
throughout New Ze al a nd and Australia, and Agencies’ at London
ombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
ft
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauißein,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office! : 41 Bridge Street. Sydney.
sd
ABORIGINALITIES
Hamer’ : A reel scientific Moke was
Macdonald Moses,” said the unshaven man
on the park seat. “’E was the bloke ’oo
’elped the cows ter give more milk by moosic
- ad a gramophone put up on the cowbails
and gave ’em soothin’ toons whilst they was
being milked. But ’e got fined fer water
in ’is milk, an’ ’e said it must ’ave been
ONE OF THE OLD MASTERS.
DEALER (looking at horse ): “I don’t know what age he is, but if he was a fiddle I’d
rush him.”
the ‘Blue Danube’ record —some of the
water from the river ’ad flowed into it. ’E
w r as the bloke, too, ’oo w’en a drought was on
fixed up ’ees sheep with spectacles so as
the few blades of grass they got’d look bigger
and Christian Science would ’elp them ter
think they’d ’ad a good feed. ’E went
further than that, though, with ’ees ’ens. ’E
trained them ’ens to lay an egg a day, but
that was only a beginning. ’E ’ad covered-
in yards made so as ’e could let down dark
screens any time of the day and make the
ens think it was night and then, by letting
the light in again, kid them they ’ad another
day a’ead of ’em. And then ’e wasn’t satis-
tied ; ’e ’ad lights fixed in the ’enroost to
make a couple of extra days in the night.
It was pitiful to .see them poor, flustered
fowls working the 48 days’ week, so to speak,
and the roosters doing so much crowing that
they ’ad ter ’ave their sore throats bound up
wiv flannel. But the Union got at Mac-
donald Moses. Y’see, ’e ’ad ter employ a
man to gather the eggs; and d’rectly this
bloke ’ad finished rushing through No. 7
yard gathering eggs, ’e ’ad ter start on No.
1 again. The Union reckoned the eight-
hour princerple was being flouted, an’ when
they found they couldn’t do nuthin’ about
it they sneaked in some Commoonist ’ens
what converted the others. At least that
is what Moses said ’appened, though some
folk said ’e’d worked is ’ens to a standstill.
Anyway, there was an egg strike, an’ it
broke ’is ’eart as far as ’ens was concerned.
Then ’e went on to the idea of feeding salt
to cattle so as to supply butchers with
corned beef on the ’oof, so to speak, without
the trouble” But I had an appointment.
and I broke away.
s-s %
“Wayward”: Walking across a paddock
the other day I saw a snake disappearing
down a hole in the ground. There was
a stick about 20 yards away; I caught the
reptile by the tail and pulled him out a
yard or so away from the hole. The snake
took things calmly and was moving slowly
back towards his dugout when I realised
that I would have to drag him much further
away if I were to make effective use of
the stick. As he was sliding down the hole
for the second time, I dragged him out again
and made a blind dash for the stick. I
bounded back to the hole just as the slender
gentleman was moving out of sight. When
I looked closer his head was resting upon his
tail about three inches below the surface of
the ground. He winked at me before he
vanished.
Hs sfc »{s
“Lucerne Flea”: Old Herman, my Ger-
man neighbor, left a little hollow 'in the
centre of a haystack last spring, in which
he placed a lining of sweet clover hay. I
arrived at his farm just as his plump,
cheery old wife came up to the stack, wheel-
ing a barrow upon which lay a dossen huge
home-made cheeses, fresh from the press.
These she passed up to her husband, who
stowed them carefully away in the clover
nest, and then built the sheaves over them.
“Dot iss der best vay of maturing der
sheeses,” he explained to me. “Der hay-
stack must keep oudt der mouses, or you
only find der sheese rinds vhen you look
again, and you must put dor clover hay
around dem, or dey go mouldy. You leaves
dem for a year, and vhen you takes
dem out again you says, ‘Veil, dot iss dor
nicest sheese I ever taste,’ and aftervards
you alvays puts sheese in der haystacks.” I
can vouch for the excellence of the cheese
matured in this way.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Australia’s only castle, at
Yulgilbar, on the Clarence River, which
was for generations
the home of the
Ogilvie family, is
now the habitation
of spiders. Recently
the antique furni-
ture and other trea-
sures were removed
and auctioned. The
mansion, built in the
architectural style
of Southern Spain,
was erected by Cap-
tain E. D. Ogilvie,
afterwards M.L.C.,
when the Clarence
was almost wholly
populated by wild
blacks. Ogilvie was
the fi rs t white
settler, and his
pioneer buildings
were bark huts. In
the mid-1850’s, hav-
ing prospered on his
big run of 400 sq.
miles, he toured
Spain, took a fancy
to the old castles he
saw% and brought
out 50 artisans to
build him one in the
m jtting that
ever a castle had. A
blackfellow named
Jimmy Cobbra, who
accompanied Ogilvie
from the Hunter
River when he took
up the run in 1838.
was known as the
Duke of Yulgilbar.
When I saw him in
1894 he had been
pensioned *off; lie
was then 85, and
died 14 years after-
wards. When Yul-
gilbar was sold be-
tween six and seven
years ago the run
had dwindled to less
than 30,000 acres.
“Henrob”: At a Homebush (N.S.W.)
shearing depot the other day I was intro-
duced to Tommy, a five-year-old ram, who
holds a position of importance. A batch
of sheep was needed in a part of
the shed handy to the board. Tom
took his cue, skirted round the crowd, got
them squared up, led them through to where
they were wanted, turned, left the pen with
dignity, bunted the gate until it shut, ambled
up to the boss of the board, reminded him
of his obligations with a bunt on the hip,
got his fig of tobacco and. helped himself to
a drink—water only. Then he turned an
affectionate eye on Jinny, his little ewe
friend, whom he is training in the craft of
leadership.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Thousands of enthusiasts scat-
tered over the world are trying to breed a red
budgerygah. The colors now available in
these beautiful little parrakeets of Central
Australia are .blue, yellow, green, silver and
lilac; and if only a red can be fixed, say the
breeders, any shade will be possible. It is
reported in London that a “lacewing” has
reverted to blue again. A “lacewing” is a
hybrid between blue and silver, and this is
stated to be the first sport that has occurred.
Apparently anything may now happen—an
albino, a black, or even the much-desired
red.
* * s> *
“Huffin-Guftin”: The Rarey system of
horse-training, subject of a recent Service
Page query, is of a respectable age. Cuth-
bert Fetherstonhaugh, in his book “After
Many Days,” says that in 1856 he paid £5
to learn the method, but he does not give it
—a condition of the lesson, no doubt.
Fetherstonhaugh goes on to say that a
man who understands the system—and
horses—can tame any horse, “but I would
only use it for a very bad horse. I do not
like it; it is apt to cow a spirited horse,
and very soft ground and very soft tackling
are required.” And Fetherstonhaugh was
not finicky about the treatment of horse-
flesh.
* * *
“F.Y.7” : The news that a Moree (N.S.W.)
sheepman, who had lost many sheep killed
by dogs, found that the killers were a sheep-
dog and two cattle-dogs will surprise no
bushman. Once a sheep-dog takes to killing
his charges he is as irreclaimable as a
morphia addict. That is one reason why
most sheepmen dislike the idea of acclimat-
ising the Alsatian, a sheep-dog in his own
country. For brains and cunning dogs of
this type are unsurpassed. For the most
part they do their fell work at night, and
usually with a mate or two. In the day-
time they work among the sheep in outward
innocence, or make themselves amiable
about the homestead. After sheep-dogs, the
THE INGRATITUDE OF THE WOMAN!
MOU: "What a rotten little canoe to ask a girl to run away in!”
HER BOY FRIEND: "Well, I like that! Your husband lent it to
me an said it was the one you always used.”
worst killers the writer lias encountered
have been game dogs, retrievers in particu-
lar. One of these, a highly-prized and valu-
able dog, must have accounted for some hun-
dreds of sheep before the crimes were traced
home— and by sheer accident—to him and
his offsider, a fox-terrier.
* * * *
“Ornis” : “A.8.C.” can take it that the
par. about women hatching eggs in their
bosoms is founded on fact (B. 5/10/’32).
Many writers of the cockfighting era have
referred to the practice, and Hardy, in
Jude, the Obscure,” mentions it in connec-
tion with prize bantam eggs. And Thomas
knew his Wessex farm folk and their cus-
toms fairly well.
“Cocky”: “A.8.C.” says a lyrebird’s egg
will not hatch unless kept at 103 deg. As
a matter of fact, it is one of the few species
the incubation of which is not impaired
by cold. The hen has to find her own grub
during the incubation period, necessitating
her absence from the nest for at least an
hour each day. As the egg is laid in July
it has plenty of time to get quite cold during
the lunch hour.
* * * *
‘ Antipas”: I shot a wild duck years ago
out Billalone (N.S.W.) way and haven’t
no t i C u me acros ? bis bi-and, though I’m on my
J.Sth book on birds. He was completely black
except for one yellow feather in his tail and
five green ones under each wing. I started
cooking him in the morning for evening
damper, but as he wasn’t ready I left him
simmering all through the night till next
afternoon. Then he twisted my fork and
smashed my best knife. So with mallet and
chisel I carved two soles out of his car-
case. They’ve seen out 13 pairs of work-
ing boots and arc still in excellent condition,
being superior in every way to chrome, shark
or politician’s hide. Any Abo.-liar know r
that duck’s proper name?
“Tangaloki”: The process of making bul-
lock bells out of circular saws described by
“H.A.L.” (B. 21/9/’32) wasn’t the only
good recipe. I used to make them out of
pit saws, which are thinner than circulars.
I shaped them after the fashion of the old
‘■bullfrog” bells, riveted them into shape and
then brazed the joints. This made a very
far-sounding bell, and its tone could be
completely changed by a few strokes of a
hammer, bending the edges in or out. «
PADDOCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No Devon field or pasture in old Spain
May furnish my refrain;
I sing of paddocks wide that bud and blow—
Bhe dear Australian paddocks that I know,
Uenl M by fragrant hedges of sweet briar,
VY here clover burns in spurts of rosy fire
And ground-larks nest!
I have seen sorrel flaring wantonly
Against a plover’s breast;
And glimpsed a brace of quail go stealthily
Through tangled fairy grasses of faint green,
Dreaming themselves unseen!
I have beheld these self-same paddocks
through
Bright gossamers 0 f rain, that drifted down
~be.httle winding tracks made by the sheep,
Until a watchful wind crept up and blew
Ihe mist away for fear the grasses drown
In diamonds deep!
Then there are paddocks pregnant with old
dreams,
Dappled with dandelions and lit by gleams
Of gorse and broom and charlock in bright
flower,
Where cattle gather in the noon-tide hour
-Lo rest and sleep!
I have trod furrows new-turned by the
share,
And marvelled how the sod shone in the sun
Ripples of smooth, moist earth, with here
'and there
Soft yellow streaks where narrow clay veins
run.
But best of all I love the paddocks sweet
vYitli acre on gold acre of ripe wheat,
Shaken to beauty by a buoyant breeze
And haunted by red poppies and brown bees!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
nr onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
an
I®
•«
'V ' »
JTi M WM
■
m
JHHtII
'
FOR AMAZING RESULTS
- y
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain it, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
Commonwealth Savinas JBank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
“W.H.M.”: A visitor to the Mai-Kass.i
district of Papua caused some excitement
recently by dropping a coal from a firestick
which he was handling near one of the vil-
lages. Immediately the natives rushed up
and began cutting round the powdery soil,
which was burning* as if it had been a dry
log. Water was carried to extinguish it,
and then they explained that underneath
there is “water” which makes the soil in-
flammable. Petroleum perhaps. The place
is not far from the borders of Dutch New
Guinea, near where the dreaded Tugeri head-
hunters used to come forth' on their raids.
“Mako”: The taste of “Ben
Warin’s” brolgas (B. 28/9/’32)
for ice-cream is shared by other
creatures. In a Ma State country
town the ice-cream man’s bell
would bring a line of cats hur-
riedly to the gate, all hoping for
a tasfe of the delicacy, a fancy
also shared by parrots and barn-
yard fowls. But the greatest ice-
cream addict I have met was a
large black collie that frequented
Elizabeth Bay, Sydney. His
habit was to hang round a local
store and look wistful until kind-
hearted friends bought him a cone.
Failing that lie would saunter deli-
cately behind an unsuspecting pur-
chaser, and, when opportunity
offered, gently thrust his head
round and annex the spoil. As he
was a very large dog, small chil-
dren had no chance to frustrate
liis intentions, and a grown-up had
to be alert to circumvent him.
“Floodmark”: .Mention of a Iviandra gold-
digger fashioning ski for sport, and later for
snow travel, reminds me that after the glory
of Kiandra’s gold discovery passed diggers’
stray horses became brumbies. They thrived
remarkably in that cold region and became
famed for their hardy endurance when
broken-in, but were so active that they were
difficult to secure. One brumby-chaser hit
upon the plan of going after them during
the winter on snowshoes, this being the first
stage in the train of events that led to
their useful appearance on stock runs in
the Tumut Valley and elsewhere.
:!: * * *
“Orn”: The legend that bees in collect-
ing pollen visit only one variety of flower
has been bowled out.
Miss Annie Betts, an
American, examined
microscopically the
loads of pollen from
various bees, and
found that from 10
to 20 per cent, of
the collectors mixed
their drinks, presum-
ably because of short-
age of their own
particular fancy. It
is also supposed that
a bee is slaughtered
if it enters the wrong
hive. True, if its in-
tentions are evil, but
a bee with a load of
nectar is welcomed
and given safe har-
borage, in exchange,
one presumes, for a
taste of its cargo. If
a strong wind is
blowing, the number
in the hive to lee-
ward in a row is
much increased by
exhausted fliers stop-
ping, as it were, at
the first pub. Place
a hive of yellow
Italian bees next to
one of common black
bees, and it is sur-
prising to see the
amount of inter-
change, or “drift” as
the professionals call
it. Another erro-
neous idea is that
bees cannot pierce
the skins of fruit
such as plums. They
seldom do so, though
they will crowd on
the broken fruit, but
I have given up plac-
ing Willesden cloth
on the top of my
hives, because the
little beggars chew
holes in it in no
time. Whether right
conduct or ignorance is the cause of their
abstention from the sound fruit is not yet
established.
v v '!■ $
“Larrapinta”: The cold nipped through
my blankets and awakened me; I rolled over
on to the other side, to see a pale-greenish
glow. “The false dawn,” I said to myself, and,
telling my blackboy to bring the horses in,
j pulled on my boots and coat, dragged my
p close to my half-frozen ears, and set
a bout lighting a fire. The blackboy, cursing
the cold, stumbled off into the darkness, and
GETTING HIS ARGUMENTS HOME.
SECOND (eyeing opponent in opposite corner ): “He’s landing a bit short.”
PUG ( ruefully ): “But a good deal to the point.
bv the time he returned and tied the prads
to the buggy-wheels I had the billy boiling
and was hunting for the tin of chaff in
which our egg supply was stowed. Mean-
while the light had grown much stronger,
but it w r as the strangest dawn I had ever
seen. Instead of the rosy glow common
to a sunrise after a frosty night, there
came a silver band, similar to the
ice-blink one sees in high latitudes when
nearing field ice. This crept rapidly up
the sky, growing brighter, and, as I stared,
it faded again until it was almost pitch
dark. A faint glow again; then one horn of
the moon in its last quarter, peeping through
the nepunyas upon a distant ridge. Dumb-
founded, I struck a match and pulled out my
watch; it was half-past three. The blackboy,
who had been whimpering with fear a minute
before, now began to snigger, then to laugh,
and I joined in. A fortnight or so later
I heard a couple of old drovers at Adavalo
speaking of how a recent moon-rise had
fooled them, and when we compared dates
we found it was the same one. That was
over 40 years ago, but I have never seen
another moon-rise like it since.
* * *
“Overseer”: “Pipards’s” Charlie Murray
(B. 14/9/’32) was a pioneer of the
liatless brigade. Heading for the Back
o’ Beyond from the Queensland coast with
cattle he lost his lid. Strips of calico wound
Afghan-fashion proved a good substitute, but
more often tlian not he forgot to don them,
thus gradually becoming immune to the rays
of the sun. With the temperature at 120
degrees, Charlie thought nothing of work-
ing hatless in the open for hours. His thick
thatch of tangled hair was sunburnt an abo.
black.
* * * *
“ Wilga” : The maze fish-trap (B. 5/10/’32)
was common years ago on the Darling
and its tributaries. It was built of stones
in shallow places and was in the form of
lon«- zigzag lanes, with blind alleys and
pockets here and there. Fish wandered into
it on their way from one deep hole to
another and many were unable to find their
way out again. A big cod followed a lane
that finally became too narrow for it to
turn round in, and it was either speared or
lifted out by the gills with a strong forked
stick Bream and Murray perch were yarded
in dozens. Another form of trap was a
stake fence across a narrow passage. The
fence curved across a stream and had a gap
in the centre where a net was set. In other
places the gap was narrow, and abos.
stood behind the stakes on each side and
speared the fish a s they swam through.
* * * *
“E.S.”: The tracks of the bush know
many odd characters and witness some queer
ways of “waltzing Matilda. ’ One familiar
figure on- western N.S.W. tracks was Crutchie
Kearney. He had only one leg, and travelled
up and down the Darling on crutches, doing
10 to 12 miles a day, and carrying as big
a swag as any whaler on that river of rest.
All the fraternity gave a hand when
they met him; they boiled his billy, baked
his dampers, pitched his tent and carried
wood and water for him. Yet Urutchie was
not particularly grateful. One day win e
he was being numerously attended to on the
river bank, a squatter who knew him pulled
up and offered him a lift and a job If I
took a job on the Darling,” said Crutehie,
sourly eyeing the group of helpers the
godfathers I’ve got in these bends would
want to come along and do it tor me.
* *
“Bogaduck”: S.A. has many examples
like that of “Talgai” (B. 5/10/’32). One
i s in my district. The homestead is a
mansion of 16 rooms, the whole of the
interior fittings, floors included, being of
cedar. Around it are wide, tree-studded
lawns and terraced gardens. The date carved
on the lintel of the front door is 1863. Half
a mile away are the shearing shed, stables
and cottages for the employees. Once the
run covered 12,000 acres, but it gradually
shrank. It remained in the same family,
who lived like the squires of old England;
but two years ago the crash came, and the
mortgagee foreclosed. Then the spirit of
the craggy-faced old Scot who had founded
the run re-asserted itself. The son and the
two girls came back from college, moved into
a cottage and set to work to help their
parents to share-farm 1000 acres of what
had once been their own land. They’re all
working like beavers to get enough money to
buy back the homestead,
* * * *
“Mamba”: Those New Guinea natives
w ho founded a cult of their own, based on
missionary teachings (B. 12/10/’32), were
treading a well-worn track. In one of his
recent reports Hubert Murray referred
tn the “wireless” epidemic which broke out
i n some of the Western parts of Papua,
How it originated no one can tell, though
.some returned native laborer who had seen
a set with earphones at work was the
probable cause. In many of the villages
natives erected poles and aerials, and fixed
U p earphones of cocoanut-shells. With
these they “listened in,” and later broadcast
astonishing news they alleged they had
picked up. Some of the Binandele folk in
n.-E. Papua years ago invented a new reli-
gj on w bich Christianity and snake wor-
sbjp we re hybridised, called “Baigona.” The
cu f t ma de astonishing headway, and gave
Anglican Mission a hard time in over-
00mi * it>
* * * *
“Maeti” • When tucker supplies are short
' are awav visitiSS fnstead of
anc J hsh aie away visiting instead oi
waiting to be speared, Jimmy 8 usu has
an ingenious method of making some varie-
ties of shell-fish betray their whereabouts
Turtle-grease is dropped on the water, and
shell-dwellers come to the top in search ot
the savory odor. Jimmy has to take care
that he doesn’t use his turtle-grease mixture
too far out as sharks are also attracted,
In cases where pearl-shelling boats have
wanted to prevent unwelcome visitors from
working a good shell patch, the use of turtle-
grease has effectually driven off the skin-
divers by bringing their sharp-finned enemy
on the scene.
THE INDISPENSABLE EMU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The machine-gun expedition authorised by the
Minister for Defence against the emus which have
been worrying settlers in the Westralian wheat belt
has been postponed, a timely rainfall having dispersed
the pest over a wide area.”
“We growl about imported pests infernally,”
said Ben.
“We’re all agreed they’re nuisances to
heartily abhor.
It’s true, of course, but all the same 1
wonder now and then
What purpose Providence designed our
home-grown emu for.
“Bunny’s admittedly a curse, and artful
Reynard, too,
Still each, when trapped or shot, has got
a marketable pelt;
And, when no other meat's in sight, a savory
rabbit stew
Is just the thing to tighten up a fellow* s
sagging belt.
“But these ungainly fowl about the bush
that streak and jazz,
And smash the squatters’ fences down and
other damage do,
They’re got no precious feathers I ke the
good old ostrich has;
They’re no darned use to anyone—except-
ing it’s a zoo.
“They’re streaks of mischief when alive
that make the cockies squeal,
And when they’re dead they foul the wells
and waterholes outback.
Their gaunt and sinewy carcases would
never yield a meal
For any hunter in the wilds, unless he
w*as a black.
“And now they talk of sending troops of
armed and armoured men
To march against the leggy birds, like
" soldiers going to war!
It makes you puzzle long and hard; it’s got
me beat,” said Ben,
“What in the world the Deity created
emus for.”
“Ah, well, there’s lot of things that puzzle
chaps like you,” said Pete,
As from his battered pipe the philosophic
smoke-wreaths curled,
“Because a sanguinary bird’s no good to
pluck or eat
It doesn’t follow* that it’s got no purpose
in the world.
BEER WEEK.
“Not a (hie) drop left!”
“There’s one point about the emu it seems
to me you miss.
Though they curse him on the stations and
revile him on the farms,
He’s srill his obvious uses for Australia.
.Tell me this :
What should we do without him for our
coins and coats-of-arms?”
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


r
THE
AUSTRALIA
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence at
moderate cost why be satisfied with anything less?
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower quality? Certainly not! Reduced rates mean nothing
if it involves reduction of comfort or service. “The Australia” offers the famous
Australia” standards of quality at reduced prices, made possible by reduction in price
of raw materials.
New reduced tariff—Room-only rates:
A Single Room is to be had for 10/6 per day, with a Double Room costing only 20/- per day.
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/-, and a la carte. Luncheon and Dinner, ala carte. Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
The Australia has been brilliantly re-decorated in the modern manner.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Tele. Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney.
T |ie /lustralici
SMOKE-OH!
“Batsmen should go out to Grimmett.”
— Ranjitsinhji.
But, dammit, they do!
* *
“People crowding the street alongside the Schroeder
Hotel, Milwaukee, were startled yesterday when the
body of a child came hurtling down from an 18th
floor window, quickly followed by another.”
—Melbourne “Sun Pictorial.”
“Startled” is an example of what the
French call le mot juste.
* *
The problem now confronting cricketers
is not so much how to get Bradman out as
how to get him in!
* *
POLITICAL APPOINTMENTS, 1936.
“Mr. Lang expressed himself as being in complete
accord with the principle of political appointments.”
■— “Sun.”
John Inkpot, public servant, was in a
quandary. It had all been very easy at
the start. Although originally a full-blooded
Nationalist, lie had seen that the tide would
MUM: “But, my dear, why the washing-machine in the drawing-
room?”
NEW BRIDE: “Washing-machine? I thought it was a cocktail-
shaker!”
swing to Labor, and had changed his poli-
l ics on the eve of the elections. Thus he
had kept his job while his fellow-workers
got the sack. He had even managed to sup-
port both sections of the Labor party when
!he split occurred. But now he was trying
valiantly to belong to the Labor party, the
Lang Labor party, the Independent Grant
Labor party, the Independent Lang Labor
party (Baddeley section), the Socialistic
Labor party, the Independent Socialistic
Willis Labor party, the Socialistic Indepen-
dent Lang Labor party (Garden wing) and
so on ; and he couldn’t for the life of him
tell which party had the greatest power.
Each consisted of only one member as far
as he could see. There was an official
paper on his desk asking which party he
wag prepared to support and vote for.
Driven to desperation, he picked up his
pen and wrote : “The John Inkpot Party—
Inkpot is Right.”
S. Esq.
* *
“A talking cow is on view in Victoria.”
Why this publicity when the legislatures
of other States also have dozens of them?
A new version is catching on at Sydney
Trades Hall, viz.: “There’s a Lang, Lang
trail a-winding into the Land of Has-beens.”
* ¥
VICIOUS CIRCLE.
The man had a drop too much; as a
result he went over the Bridge and had a
drop too much.
H. M.
* *
“A London journalist, who visited a factory, told
how bagpipes are made.”— “Argus.”
But even a London journalist hasn’t the
hardihood to tell why they are made.
SABBATH VIGNETTE.
It is 10 a.m., and Mr. Augustus J.
Smithers, J.P., has settled down with his
Sunday paper. You all know Gus Smith-
ers, a typical, hard-headed captain of indus-
try and Empire man. The intellect and
driving will power of a Napoleon ; the heart
of a Good Woman. Such is his reputation
in the locker-room of the Slugville Golf
Club.
Watch his eye light up as he glances at
the fare that has been provided for him.
Meat for men, indeed! What have we here?
An exhaustive account of a .smart-set wed-
ding with pictures of—to quote the comp.’s
artless phrase—“the childish pall-bearers.”
“Delightful Glimpse of Fashionable Tots.
Left, Esme Patricia
Smith; Right, Clif-
r'ord St. Clair
.Tones. Both of
the Woggle-Woggle
Younger Set.” Mr.
Smithers next
studies the lighter
items — “Mickey
Moodle and the
C a t erpilla r,”
“L i 111 e Georgia
Does It,” and the
arrestive “Booties’s
Bunkum.” Satiated
with mirth, he
turns to the Cross-
w ord Problem.
“No. T Across: A
domestic animal.”
Three letters. No.
1 Down : A modern
conveyance, also of
three letters. Mr.
Smithers cogitates.
“Ah — um !” His
keen, unerring in-
tellect penetrates
the mystery in an
Einstein-like flash.
“Cat and car—or
perhaps cab,” he
mumbles, and con-
scientiously marks
off the squares with
his gold pencil.
And now Mr.
Smithers squares
his jaw and reads
the considered opinion on the impasse
at Geneva of Mr. Eli Goop, the pro-
minent tailor, who has just returned
from abroad on the Osmazome (photo, of
Geneva with Mr. Goop inset). Deep stuff
this. Glancing at the roundish, flattish fea-
tures of the merchant prince, Mr. Smithers
gurgles, “Sharp feller.” High praise, in-
deed. And next the Correspondence Column.
“ s 4'» — 1 have a g ir l. friend. I have been
taking her to the pictures twice a week for
four years. Now I hear she is going with
another boy. I am a regular reader of
your great paper. What ought I to do? —
Rudolph.”
Mr. Smithers sighs. “A young man's
fancy,” he oozes sympathetically.
But his brain is beginning to tire. The
massive load of literature falls from his
nerveless grasp, and is dispersed by vagrom
breezes about the verandah, house and gar-
den. A snore rips the Sabbath quietude.
Mr. Smithers sleeps.
Subbubs.
* #
What Australia wants most is a stop-gab
Government.
DIETING THE MISSUS.
“Dr. Josiah Oldfield at a Rotary luncheon in
London declared that by studying her diet a husband
could cure his wife’s ill-temper.”
I deny it. I’ve tried the idea, and it
won’t work. Many’s the time I have taken
the wife home melons —2 a.m., 3 a.m., it
was all alike to me—and after all my
trouble in opening them with her scissors
she has gone on like a termagant and fin-
ished by throwing the skins at me.
“Now you just tell me at once where yon
have been, and you needn’t say the club,
you liar!” she stormed the other night.
“Have a prawn,” I countered, still pur-
suing the diet theory.
But it takes a lot to put me off a theory.
After disengaging the prawns from my hair
I went in search of the pickles.
BOSS: “What makes you late
this morning?”
CLERK (from Potts Point) :
“My wife’s family has
pups, sir.”
A pickled onion caught me fairly in the
eye a minute or so later, but the wife is
particularly fond of gherkins.
“I won’t let. you go to sleep until you
tell me how you dared stay out until this
time; and, whatever you say, I won’t be-
lieve you,” she declared as she regarded the
comestibles with scorn.
“How about a few peanuts?”
That was the end of the ornamental vase.
No; I’m _ dashed if I can see any success
in this dieting business.
Percy Pawnticket.
v ¥
“Ibsen.... had a flare for a good ‘curtain.’”
—“Sunday Sun.”
But he probably insured it first.
MENTAL TEST FOR WATER BOARD
MEMBERS.
1. Spring rains have assured full reser-
voirs for at least two years. Explain why
a. ukase should immediately bo issued ban-
ning sprinklers and hoses through the hot
months.
2. A member, admittedly
eccentric, has proposed, as
a gesture of goodwill to rate-
payers, that the Board fore-
go' fees for the ensuing- year.
You know, of course, what
its fate will be. Taking this
and the value of press pub-
licity into consideration,
would you deem it desirable
to second the motion?
3. Alternative sites are
being considered for a new
ocean outfall sewerage
scheme. One i.s alongside a
popular surfing beach; the
other, involving slightly addi-
tional expenditure, is at an
unfrequented spot further
along the coast. Your choice,
of course, is obvious. Enu-
cleate the arguments you
will use to stifle criticism
from the various Beach Im-
provement and Surf Club
bodies.
4. (a) Discuss in full the
dictum that a meter sub-
mitted for test by a rate-
payer who has been charged
for using excess water can
never be found defective.
(p) Your own assessment
notice discloses that you
have used 40,000ga1. over the
allotted quantity. Ignoring the answer that
you _ submitted for the preceding question,
outline the procedure you would adopt to
rectify this glaring error.
5. A water main has burst in an im-
portant business thoroughfare, and a strong
wind is carrying the upthrown water into
the adjoining shops. Give reasons for your
view that five hours would be a reasonable
time to allow the turncock to arrive and
cut off the flow.
S. W. K.
“Mr. Stevens may be relied upon to clean up the
muddle.” — “Sun.”
He’s not called “Tubby” Stevens for no-
thing.
KALEIDOSCOPE.
The news that the victim of a recent
mysterious accident “turned a strange color’
didn’t surprise me. My wife turned white
with fury, and subsequently looked black,
because I wouldn’t give her any of the fl
I collected as a result of spending some
£l5 on lottery tickets. Her language be-
came blue when I continued to hang on to
"Did, your aunt remember you when she made her will?”
“I expect so—she left me out!”
my money, and at one stage she got purple
in the face. I have actually seen her turn
green. That was when she dyed her hair
and it came out hrick-i’ed instead of red-
gold.
H. M.
GJIVE AND TAKE.
Being little in love with the job that was
his,
He gave all his time to a skirt;
Short of money, lie gave himself some from
the biz,
Then gave it aicay on a cert.
Detectives were called, but he still kept at
large ,
And gave them the slip without fail,
Till the skirt that he’d given up gave him
in charge,
And a Judge gave him six months in gaol.
T. B.
THE DAY STAR.
“ ‘Out of the Bottle’ made Fiances Da.v a star
in a night.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
By some subtle, cunning sleight,
Day becomes a star at night.
Stellar glory comes to Day
In a most amazing way.
■Fame is not in pint or pottle;
It comes from a three-star bottle.
NORBELL.
SHERTAINLY!
“It is suggested that hotels be kept open til
sheven o’clock.” —“Sun.”
Those who in pubs do congregate
The present hour condemn —
Yet surely ’tis appropriate
To close at shicks p.m.
P.


Race Visitors to Melbourne/
i'i
* '' q ;
ii
m
KH
Ux*S»
I «ss-~
L-*f2k
HI
■
mm
I k*55?K
as
*s*>
sa m
S:S
11
m ■
.. : :«
' ' £
, s , *l-^
m
S-a :3
I
K3B
S
v''V
tuherz thay
"MERELY PUT THE HEADS ON THE MATCHES"
AUSTRALIA'S
MODEL
FACTORY
Some morning during your Melbourne visit you’ll be at a “loose
end.” Make a note of this now. . . .to take a 10-minute run out
to Bryant & May’s Match Works. After an hour’s inspection
(much more interesting than it sounds, honestly!) you will feel
a brand new respect for the common or garden match, and for
the people who make it. We wouldn’t be mean enough to flatten
your holiday spirit with a bombardment of figures and statistics;
but you will gather your own ideas of the tremendous industry
this match-making is, and what it means to a number of
Australia’s other industries.... and to thousands of Australian
workers.
Come when you like, any morning or afternoon. Parties under
courteous, informative guides will start through the works every
morning at 9.30, and every afternoon at 2.
No children under 12; trams from Princes Bridge to Church
Street, Richmond, every few minutes.
AUSTRALIAN HOOP PINE LOGS.
THE SURPRISING VOLUME OF INDIRECT
EMPLOYMENT CREATED BY BRYANT & MAY’S:
21 tons of Australian paper and board used per week.
4 2 tons of Australian stearine used per week.
lj| tons of Australian glue used per week.
1 ton of Australian cotton used per week.
Over 1 million super feet of Australian timber used per annum.
9ks is your invitation to
BRYANT & MAY’S


BOORS
IN POPULAR DEMAND
Norman Lindsay’s Pen Drawings, many of which are out of print, 5/4;
Canaries and How to Keep Them, by Cliatterton, 2/9; Poultry Farming, by Dept, of
Agriculture, Victoria, 3/4; Service Projection Equipment, 20/6; Compression Ignition
Engines for Road Vehicles, 4/6; Book of Australian Bungalows, 5/4; Knotting and
Splicing Ropes and Cordage, illustrated,
2/9; House Painting and Decorating, fully
illustrated., 2/9; Ticket Writing and Sign
Tainting, fully illustrated, 2/9; Invoicing
Made Easy, of Tons, Cwts., Qrs. and Lbs.,
by Cordingly, 1/6; How to Become Quick
at Figures, Simple and Easy Rules,
1/4; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
4/10; Enduring Passion,, by Marie Stopes,
7/10; Contraception— Birth Control, Its
Theory, History and Practice, by Marie
Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Mother-
hood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; Exercises
GARDENERS
Every gardener and grower of
flowers, fruit and vegetables for
borne or market is offered great help
to success in Audels Gardeners and
Growers Guides. A complete library
of proven answers, plans, hints, dis-
coveries, secrets, short-cuts. A
reliable reference; complete gar-
dener’s educator. Beautifully illus-
trated and bound; 1700 pages, 4
vols.; price 40/- posted complete.
for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale. 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4;
The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control,
by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/0; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Medical
\iews on Birth Control, 6/4; Knowledge a Young Wife Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6;
Mastery of Sex. L. D. Weatlierhead—a vital book, 5/4; These Beautiful Women —
Prints of Paintings from Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge, by Ely Culbertson, 8/6;
How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price
Book, 15/6; Eon 1 sham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle
True Romances of “The Ring”
EPICS OF THE FANCY,
A VISION OF OLI» FIGHTERS
by .leffery Farabi.
In this series of ring epics, Mr. Jeffery Farnol’s vivid pen pictures
throw a new light upon many famous pugilists, showing their
character and personality in his own inimitable manner.
27 full-page illustrations, 309 pages.
PRICE, 3/- posted.
Up to Date”), 2/8; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What
to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Wood Turning Made Easy; 2/9; Home Woodworker —
Practical and Modern Designs, 1/11; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and
Toasts, 3/-1 Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Eaequer Finishing, by F. A. Rose,
3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 28/C: Napoleon's Book of Fate, 3/4; Clieiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2),
1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all
MEN OF THE JUNGLE,
J»y lON L. IDRIESS.
With Illus. Price, 6/4 posted.
Author of “Easseter’s East Ride,”
“Flyrin of the Inland.”
The scene of “Men of the Jungle” is
the Wonderland that is north-eastern
Queensland. The story is of three years
in the lives of the author and two com-
panions, incidents in which have left
poignant and indelible memories.
The bush has set its mark on Idriess ;
he knows it and loves it; he can bring
it to us and make us love it, too.
kinds of games), 2/9; How to Repair
and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-;
The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Parent-
hood—a Manual of Birth Control, by
Fielding, 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Wini-
fred Scott Hall, 13/- ;Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts, 2/9; Sound Film Reproduc-
tion, Just Out—Special Reference to
British Practice, 6/4; Practical Cartooning
for Profit, by Will Farrow, 6/6; Fresh-
water Aquaria, by Bateman, 10/9; Mules
and Hybrids, by House, 2/8; Logan’s
Pigeon Racer’s Handbook, 3/10; Out-
board Motorboat Book, blue prints, 17/-;
Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Powler’s Mechanics’
and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 1932, 3/10.
Write for any book you may require.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
YOU CAN’T BEAT THEQ.P.S.
ftoi
If He
m3'fp
tyce
w
#
3>
6
NO ICE -'-REQUIRED
7 heir tremendous turnover ensures you
lowest prices and best-quality goods. We
have no agents whatsoever you must pro-
tect yourself and deal direct with us. There is
no margin in our prices to pay agents’ com-
mission.
Further, we warn the public no other firm
in Queensland can supply the genuine Hibis-
cus Wire, for which we are the sole agents.
LOOK AT OUR PRICES, AND NO SALES
TAX TO PAY ON ANY OF OUR GOODS.
We will supply all Fencing Wire, Barb Wire,
K. Wire and Netting, Droppers, Fencing
Posts, New Era Separators and Cream Cans
at our latest Brisbane prices, and pay the
freight free of charge to Maryborough,
Bundaberg, Gladstone, Rockhampton,
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
STANDARD AUSTRALIAN 8-GAUGE GALV. WIRE —I 6- per cwt. Hibiscus
Special Quality, 17/6 per cwt.
HIBISCUS TESTED HIGH-TENSION WIRE—£26 per ton, or 27/- cwt.
ALSO AUSTRALIAN STANDARD —£2o per ton, or 21/- cwt.
BARB WIRE—From 17/6 per coil of 440 yards.
WIRE NETTING—We are allowing special 10% discounts—write for full lists.
GALVANISED IRON—Red Orb, 26g., £23/15/- per ton. Best' British Crown
or Blue Orb, 26g., reduced to £24/10/- ton—9ft. 10/- and I Oft. 15/-
per ton extra. Sheet prices of Red Orb are as follows: 26g., in sheets,
sft. 2/-, 6ft. 2/6, 7ft. 2/11, Bft. 3/4, 9ft. 3/10, 10ft. 4/5.
K. WIRE We allow anyone 25% off maker’s list.
STOVES Standard Dover Stove, No. 7 67/6, No. 8 77/6, complete with 4ft.
piping.
GALVANISED PIPING—We allow 35% and 10% discount off list' prices.
VENUS LATEST COLD SAFE—NO ICE REQUIRED.
Standard size inside measurements 15in. x 15in. x 20in., 3 7/6 complete.
Venus Milk and Butter Cooler, inside measurements, 9in. x 1 1 in. x. 15in.,
25/- complete.
Write for detailed pamphlet. We manufacture these lines, so you get direct
factory prices.
Lowest also for NAILS for Fruit Cases, 28/- cwt. HIBISCUS PIG NETTING
32in., 45/- roll of 110 yards. COTTONSEED MEAL, £6/15/- ton!
IHREEPLY, 2/- per sheet. SUPERPHOSPHATES, £6/5/- per ton
VENUS SUPER POWER KEROSENE, in drums, 1/2 per gallon VENUS
SUPER MOTOR SPIRIT, guaranteed first grade, 1/10 per gallon Also
NEW ERA SEPARATORS, CREAM CANS, FURNITURE DRAPERY
FARM MACHINERY, ETC. ’ u ™ rtLni ’
Write for latest catalogue—it will save you pounds.
LISTEN-IN TO J,BJI WEDNESDAY NIGHTS—B.3O P.M WE ARE
BROADCASTING RICHARD TAUBER’S FAMOUS 'SONGS
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance)
BRISBANE.
Mien that are men
need amaris blade
7
'O
/T
Vk
X
/2
M,
r\
2
w®
i'li.
r//
M
Z/W
%
///
//a
a
A
V m
PROBAK
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
MADE IN ENGLAND
2/3 per Packet
OF ALL DEALERS
If your work or play exposes you
to hard weather. If your beard is
tough and you find it hard to shave,
then try Probak the heavier blade.
Its shaving edges are exceptionally
keen honed and stropped for
swift, easy strokes on the stub-
bornest beard.
f
The stout blade For stiFF beards.
Managing Agents for Australia • PHIPSON & COMPANY, ITD., 181 CLARENCE ST, SYDNEY
■S^XKXKK
V--
SPf
w fll.
ro vfS3fSSS3&i-A<^
4
/y°~'
SSB
"V
w
?«
■ : ?
****
-■***.
«
MMMBMililill —BB—
.
1
Son succeeds father at
Stuarts—preserving the
unbroken line of her ed=
itary skilly of the crafts=
mans simple pride in
honest work. On every
piece is etched the reg=
istered name Stuart > so
that wherever beaut i=
ful glass is sold/ this
lovely English Crystal
is known and loved.
And yet it may be
bought for as little as
a few shillings.
A
GENUINE
EXAMPLE.
Be sure to look for the registered name “ Stuart ” on every piece you buy.


SBC
IAMONt • ;
NH CEU,. ' -
P Olu
r-
°*a¥;
J**N(
*£»«£
SERVICE
The gruelling and exacting battery service demanded
by Broadcasting stations can only be satisfactorily
given by Diamonds.
That is why Diamonds are used by the leading Broad-
casting stations of Australia. Their long life and
amazingly rapid recuperation guarantee dependable
and economical performance.
For the same reasons leading set manufacturers, the
P.M.G.’s Department, the Victorian Railways Signal-
ling Division, and the Navy choose Diamonds.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES TORCH REFILLS
i.
Ess
Nc
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
NEW LIGHT ON SOIL-FEEDING.
“O’Gorman”; Biesterfeldt, of Ruby, is
known to many Victorians as a progressive
dairy-farmer. Some of his reported results
are significant enough to deserve wider pub-
licity. He farms 120 acres' of average South
Gippsland hill country, with no creek- or
river-flats, and with no cultivation. Seven
years ago his place carried 23 cows, 10
young stock and four horses; production of
butterfat was about 60001 b. per annum. At
present it carries 50 cows, 50 young stock
and four horses; production of butterfat is
about 13,0001 b., but, of course, the large
number of young stock severely limits butter
production.
When Biesterfeldt began to super, liis land
he found that something was still lacking.
He tried liming in addition. The result was
astonishing. Contagious abortion and mas-
titis, both of which had been troublesome,
practically disappeared, and the carrying
capacity rose 300 p.c. above its original! stan-
dard, while the general condition, growth
and vigor of all stock improved out of sight.
To this disappearance of mastitis and abor-
tion, and the all-round improvement in health
and growth, Mr. Biesterfeldt, I believe
rightly, attaches even more importance than
to the rise in carrying capacity, immense as
that already is.
The Biesterfeldt formula of operations is
simplicity itself: one bag of super, per acre
per annum; five cwt. of ground burnt lime
every five or six years. Especial importance
is attached to the form in which the lime
is applied, the burnt and ground lime being
found quite twice effective as pulverised
limestone or burnt and air-slacked lime.
Large quantities of meadow-bay and silage
contribute to the gross result. But as the
shutting off of one-third of the farm area is
found necessary, to avoid overgrowth and
consequent waste and rankness in the spring
flush, the conservation of that surplus
growth is merely a matter of some extra
labor. To compensate for that there is found
to be no need to lay out money in the pur-
chase of concentrates, the silage, and still
more the meadow-hay, being concentrates of
the most useful kind.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT OPERATIONS.
“Wodgil”: The trustees of Westralia’s
voluntary wheat pool report that 19,720.000
bushels of last season’s wheat were put into
the pool. . Westralian millers took 4,500,000
bushels “at full parity price,” and all the
rest was sold, except 70,000 bushels, “stock
on hand” at Sept. 12. Local charges, ex-
clusive of rail freight, worked out at 2.619 d.
per bushel. The initial payment at sidings
was 2s. a bushel, and there have been four
other distributions, while a final One is due
at the end of the month. If it is Id. a
bushel, as expected, growers will have re-
ceived 3s. Ofd. a bushel. Rail freight has
to come out of that; it is 4d. a bushel in most
cases. Of course, for the majority of farmers
there is no profit in wheat at 2s. Bd. or
2s. 9d., even with the Government bounty
of 4£d. added; still, the situation might have
been worse. It was worse in 1930-31, when
pool distributions to farmers were 2s. 3-gd.
in Westralia, 2s. lfd. in South Aus., 2s.
3|d. in Victoria, 2s. 0.625 d. for bulk wheat
in N. S. Wales and 2s. 1.025 d. for bagged.
This Westralian pool is financed by the
Co-operative Wholesale Society of England,
and that concern has agreed to supply the
wherewithal for the coming season at “a
materially reduced rate of interest.” The
precise rate is a secret for the present, but
“it will be lower than that for any con-
siderable overseas loan for many years
past,” the pool chairman, A. .T. Monger,
says. By deducting fractions of final pay-
ments due where they fall below |d. a bushel,
the pool has built up a reserve fund amount-
ing to £70,000. This has been employed, in
part, in subsidising the interesting bulk-
handling experiments to which references
have been made in The Bulletin and in
acquiring large interests in wheat-discharg-
ing and -selling concerns in London. And
last season a supply of cornsacks was
bought and held as a check on jute mer-
chants’ prices. Distribution of these bags
was not considered necessary; during the
winter the pool trustees advised members
to book their full requirements of bags at
the price then ruling, 7s. 4d. a dozen on
rails, Fremantle.
One cannot read this report without
deriving the impression that the Westralian
wheat industry will weather the storm and
emerge stronger than ever, especially if it
is increasingly combined with the raising of
wheat and sheep. Comparatively cheap rail
and ocean freights give it a decided advant-
age. On cargoes to Europe the quotation
is generally 2s. 6d. a ton less than the rate
which Eastern States shippers have to pay.
On this subject the pool chairman says:
“Our highest charter for the season was
30s. a ton, the lowest 225. 6d. Quotes for
the earlier months of 1932-33 are lower
than the rates paid at the commencement
of the past season, and the few ships we
have already fixed for the new season fully
reflect this lower rate.” Of 287,000 tons
shipped abroad, China and Japan took
104,000 tons. And reports from Chinese
in the trade are that “the demand for Aus-
tralian wheat will continue next year.”
HIGH- AND LOW-QUALITY WHEATS.
“Binnawitter”; “Wodgil” (B. 21/9/’32)
quotes H. Wenholz, the N.S.W. Director of
Plant Breeding, as suggesting that Austra-
lian merchants and millers may give a pre-
mium for wheat varieties of high baking
quality, and adds that many growers regard
this possibility as remote. Returning to the
subject in the “Agricultural Gazette,” Mr.
Wenholz and S. L. Macindoe, a member of
his staff, state that while Australian millers
have in the past “consistently refused to
give any premium for strong flour wheat”
there have been approaches towards a more
generous policy. “A few country millers
have recently been milling separately some
medium strong flour wheats, and have found
a ready sale for the flour at 10s. to £1 per
ton above the price of their average blended
flour. Premiums of 3d. to 4d. per bushel
are now being offered by these millers to
farmers for varieties such as Pusa 4 and
Florence, which are of high or moderately
high quality. This may not be sufficient
to encourage a very wide production of high-
quality wheats, but it may be the beginning
of a more general local recognition of quality
which will assist in the general elevation
of the flour strength of Australian wheat.”
The departmental writers go on to say:
“It is possible that, in the absence of a
grading system for the separate marketing
of Australian strong flour wheat, such
wheat could be purchased by local millers
and milled separately for the marketing of
a graded flour—Australian strong—with
advantage. Canada adopts a similar prac-
tice, exporting her strong flour wheat as
wheat and her comparatively small volume
of weak flour wheat in the form of flour.”
Strangely enough, British millers have lately
been paying twopence a bushel more for our
weak flour wheat than for the best strong-
flour wheat from Canada. I suppose the
premium won’t last, but the fact remains
that it has been paid.
SORTING IN THE SHED.
“Manton”: It pays to grade primary pro-
duce ; yet our wool clip is offered ungraded.
Classing does not grade wool, because prac-
tically every fleece is made up of different
types and qualities, and when the fleece is
classed as a whole it is impossible to make
straight lines. On several South Aus. runs
fleeces are divided into their types and quali-
ties, and one clip in particular is sorted. For
years the wool from this station w-as bought
on top-makers’ limits; since the clip has
been sorted more than half of it is valued
and bought on spinners’ limits. Anyone at
all conversant with the trade will realise
that this must mean a very large increase
in net returns.
In wool-shed sorting, a rolling table must
be provided for every four shearers. Two
men man a table and they do everything ;
skirt and coil into baskets. When the
fleece is coarse on the britcli they remove
this portion. The back is nearly always of
a top-makers’ type and often unsound, while
sides and shoulders will be higher in yield,
sound and of spinners’ type; therefoi-e, the
back portion must be separated. The men
then roll sides and shoulders together and
the strong britch, if present, is also made
into a bundle. These portions are then placed
on the classer’s table separately; and the
back is taken to a table and sorted on quality
and condition. This system of working a
wool-room concentrates the labor on the
rolling tables. When 12 shearers are em-
ployed six rollers are required, together with
one man for backs, one for bellies, two
pressers and two board boys—loo per cent,
shed hands, as stipulated in most shearing con-
tracts. I have supervised the sorting of clips
on these lines and the results have proved
excellent. No more fleece classes are required,
but each class is straight in quality and
type. Such results can never be obtained by
as generally practised.
“Trepex”: I question whether sorting in
the shed is desirable. The idea of classing
is to give the buyer a line of wool which
will be of a bulk type and of such, even con-
dition as will enable him to make a confi-
dent estimate of the clean-scoured content
of the parcel. In many cases we know that
the line provided conforms to a required
type, and so can be used without iany
further working “over the table.” But in
many other cases lines of wool have to be
sorted to detailed requirements and stand-
ard types. For us to attempt this sorting
pre-supposes that we will supply the buyer
with standard types. Can it be done? With
hundreds of men working up clips in differ-
ent parts of the country, it is hardly likely
that their different types would uniformly
answer the type requirements of the .buyers.
A buyer would have an exasperating time
searching out his quota from the multitudin-
ous small pocketfuls of sorts which would
come up before him. "
And yet I can’t help thinking that the
crude export of raw and little-treated wool
is stupid. We don’t scour it, not in any
appreciable quantity, and we only half class
it. Foreigners make millions of pounds per
year by doing these things with our wool.
Of course, it would be worse than foolish
to scour unsorted wool—that is, to make a
scoured parcel of wool which does not con-
form to a required type. Also some buyers
have had unhappy experiences of the quality
of Australian scouring. But these matters
could be corrected, and in any case there
is. a good deal of bluff in our overseas
friends’ attitude towards treated wool, be-
cause they want the profits from the treat-
ment process themselves.
“Golightly” : Wool-sorting during shearing
is a dream. Visit a warehouse and you
will see many clips faulty in their get-
up as regards the skirting of the fleeces
and the picking of the pieces—all a result
of the hard deal the owner has made with
the contractor. The latter, to live, must
carry on with a minimum of shed hands:
in the circumstances the best wool-classer
in the world is powerless to prevent the
clip being badly got up. On the other hand,
some cockies doing their own shearing spare
neither pains nor expense in the wool-room,
but still get some nasty setbacks from our
vaunted wool-marketing system. A neigh-
bor of mine with a 40-bale clip had his lead-
ing line passed in at 84d. last March. In
September, after the alleged rise of 30 per
cent., it was sold for Bd. He shore 50 sheep
for a neighbor, rolled the lot up, bellies and
all, and it sold for 9d. at the earlier sale.
Another farmer with a 20-bale clip had six
bales of his best fleece wool sold in the large
lots at 84d. last February. The same day
two single bales of inferior wool in the star
lots sold at 10Jd. and 10|d. respectively.
Until these lucky-dip methods of marketing-
are replaced by appraised prices for sorts,
sorting on the farm, with its added costs,
will not be favored.
SHOULD LOCKS BE MARKETED?
“Legup”: I read in my Queensland retreat
that some N.S.W. graziers have been filling
holes in the road with locks. Prices have
advanced for all classes of wool, locks and
crutchings included, and it will now pay
the grower to sell his locks, except, perhaps,
where he has to pay cartage and railage over
long distances. On an average it costs T§d.
per pound to press, rail and sell greasy
locks. Very few locks bring below 2d. per
pound to-day, and you get as high as 4fd.
for the best. Even heavy, faulty locks can
be prepared so that there will be some re-
turn. If the grazier does not wish to employ
extra labor during shearing, the locks can be
stored in a corner of the shed and the work
done by station hands on wet days. This
work consists of shaking out any pieces and
branding “P.C.S.” Then all dag and sweat
ends should be left behind. The job is
best done over the wool table. A rolling
motion will cause the heavy frills to drop
through the grids. Never press locks; tramp-
ing is sufficient; and 4501 b. in one bale
should not be exceeded.
PASTURE DIVISIONS.
“Booraby”: The layout of pastoral land
is important. The place may look better
when nicely divided into square paddocks,
but it means discomfort for the animals if
the divisions are made with only that con-
sideration, leaving all the hills and mounds
in one paddock and none in the other. The
flat paddock with no rise or shelter is not
a comfortable place when there is much rain,
and the cattle get discontented.
One big selection I know was all low land
and took in a part of a wide swamp. The
misery of the cattle there in flood weather
set the owner thinking. During a drought,
when the swamp was half-dry, he got to
work in it with plough and scoop, excavated
a deep hole and dumped the soil in the
paddock until he had made a sufficient mound
for a cattle camp. He topped it with sand,
stuck in a few trees, and sowed it with
couch grass. That rise was always thickly
littered with ordure; and the owner reck-
oned that it improved the value of his pro-
perty by 50 per cent.
You can enhance the worth of any graz-
ing area by judicious fencing, or spoil it
by taking no count of the hills when dividing
it. You may have one liill or many, or a
bit of a rise here and there. Make your
divisions, as far as possible, so as to get
some of the high ground in each section.
Where this will not work in all cases, it. is
better to make one big paddock than one
that is high and one low. On dairy farms,
where the cows are yarded twice a day, the
latter division can be made, the low area
being used as a day paddock, and the high
for night and bad weather. Consideration
should also be given to the timber or scrub
on the place Scrub forms a desirable shelter
on cold nights as well as hot days, and a
protection from cold winds at camping time.
In all paddocks a few trees are needed for
shade. These should be, and generally are,
on .the rises.
The next thing is water—it is usually
the first consideration with landowners when
starting to fence. With a creek frontage,
a suitable watering place can be made any-
where. Where there is no natural! reser-
voir it is wiser to make one—a small dam
or tank—than to cut off the essential fea-
tures from another section. In this manner
of dividing pastures you improve the whole
much more than can be done by just run-
ning straight lines at measured intervals
without regard to the nature of the country,
and your cattle do much' better.
WILD LUCERNE IN N.Q.
“Rocky”: Wild lucerne grows on the
Townsville (N.Q.) common. To southern
eyes the land looks almost bare, but it is
carrying about 700 head of cattle and 300
horses—all in good condition; and the herds-
man says they will keep that way till the
end of the year without rain. Northern
graziers are interested, for owing to the
conditions they can’t grow clovers and
grasses rich in protein, and, generally speak-
ing, improvement of pastures by fertilising
is out of the question. It is hoped that
wild lucerne will bridge the nutritional gap
between the seasons which is such a diffi-
cult period for stock.
This wild lucerne is believed to be a
native of the West Indies. It is a legume,
perennial in nature, and grows in hard
country. If it proves as prolific in other
places in the tropics as it has been at
Townsville it should be a godsend. As a
fodder for dairy cows and pigs it will be
especially appealing, for any surplus may
be cured and stored. A test of it in the
green state showed 3 per cent, crude pro-
tein, 1.5 per cent, true protein, 0.1 per cent,
fat, 6.4 per cent, carbohydrates, and 3.8 per
cent, fibre. This looks good for the dry
northern spring, when Rhodes grass and
spear grass are practically useless. When
cured wild lucerne sheds a large quantity of
leaf, but this can be overcome by improved
methods of handling. There is very little
cost in getting it established ; all that need
be done is to scatter the seed on the ground
and keep the stock numbers up, so that the
other grasses will be prevented from smother-
ing the young lucerne. The best time to
plant i,s about November; as soon as rain
falls it will grow rapidly and come into seed
about June. Then it dies off and comes up
again the next year from the seed left. The
stock are still fond of it dry, and will clear
it up from the ground, keeping condition
when they would otherwise be falling away.
The difficulty at the moment is to get
clean seed. Cattle owners with friends in
the To'wnsville district have been able to
secure bags of the seeds contained in quan-
tities of soil and trash scraped from the
ground on which the legume is growing.
CLOVER IN GIPPSLAND.
“J.W.W.” : The clover era has arrived in
many parts of Gippsland. Strawberry
clover on river flats and low-lying places;
sub-clover on poorer country—messmate,
stringy-bark and stunted-gum. Land is
being cleared and ploughed for sub. near
Moe, Moondarrat and adjacent districts; the
seed is sown sometimes with a cover crop,
sometimes alone. This last seems the quick-
est way to establish it if a hundredweight
of super, per acre is put in with it. Such
a transformation has it made in many places
that what three years ago was accounted
practically worthless land for grazing is now
like a meadow.
a few more years all the so-called
poor land in Gippsland handy to railways
will be brought under sub. and similar
(Continued an next page.)


-t
Pal
For practical horsemen
Light, resilient, softly leather-lined
.... with nothing to catch in the
stirrups. . . .the Abbey is the ideal
riding boot. It fits like a glove,
yielding comfortably with every
movement. Its sole is made of the
toughest Australian leather. The
upper, curved for perfect ease of
fit over the instep arch, has ankle
insets of stout elastic. There’s no
strain anywhere. . . .and the Abbey
Riding' Boot is unsurpassed for neat
appearance.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF .. 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 304
1
#
9^
#
I
92
Sgg
PENS
MADE IN ENGLAND
•Swan' Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/*
•Swan' Minors from • * * - !■>/•
• Blackbird’ Pens from • • ’ .
‘Swan’ Ink from * - 6d. per bottle.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
london, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool.
MoflQging Agents and Repair Service Depot i
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
I N „ the Supreme Court of Victoria.—To PETER
HARTLEY McEWAN late of Wynnum South in
the State of Queensland Public Entertainer but now
of parts unknown. TAKE NOTICE that your wife
has instituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion. Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Melbourne on or before the
thirtieth day of November 1932 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
PEARSON EGGINGTON & LEGGATT, of 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
MURDOCHS
New Standard
Prices
sa
50
L
Be Merchant-
Tailored for
£3'3
(Formerly £4/10/-)
Your Suit to Measure, tailored
from a selection of all-wool
Worsteds, Thornproof Tweeds or
the ever-popular Indigo-dye
Serges. Meticulously tailored to
your measures and wishes by
skilled craftsmen in Murdoch’s
own daylit workrooms,
for only
> 0 ,
£,o' O' m
Suits to Measure
£44
(Formerly £5/15/-)
Take your choice from pure
Indigo-dye Serges, in Herring-
bone or fine twill weaves, Thorn-
proof Tweeds and all-wool
Worsteds. Tailored to your in-
dividual measures,
for
£4/4/-
Unequalled Value
£5 5
(Formerly £6/15/-)
Tailored to your individual
wishes and requirements from
superb-quality mate-
rials, for
.mm/
XO' O' ”
OTHER SPECIAL
TAILORING VALUES—
£3/15/-, £4/15/6, £5/13/9,
£6/5/-, £6/19/6
Write to Desk “R” for a
FREE selection of Suiting
patterns.
We Pay Freight.
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY
clovers. The only drawback is clover taint,
but that comes of milking the cows straight
off the paddock. If they have a couple ot
hours’ grazing on some other kind of grass
before milking there will not be much to
complain about in the flavor.
SEED PRODUCTION IN N. S. WALES.
“A.C.8.”: I have often pointed out that
there is money to be made growing seed in
N.S.W. —not only seed of grasses and clovers
(B. 19/10/’32), but vegetable seed. There
are many places in the State where cabbage,
pea. Wean, lettuce, carrot, parsnip and beet
seed could be profitably raised. Last season
1 had Canadian Wonder bean seed grown
for me at Chester Hill, and it was first-
class, free from weevil and bacterial blight.
The best parsnip seed I ever handled was
grown on the Dorrigo, whence also good
lettuce seed was procured. The colder
climates seem to suit seed-growing best,
since the plants do not use up their strength
in making foliage. Still, beetroot seed can
be grown anywhere about Sydney, and also
carrot seed. Some very good tomato seed is
produced in different parts of N.S.W. At
one time the greatest part of the water-
melon seed used by me was grown in the
Hunter River district. I have myself grown
lettuce, pea, beet, carrot, tomato and parsnip
seed, and have at present about 301 b. ot
special rock-melon seed grown for me not
20 miles from Sydney. There is a preju-
dice against local cabbage seed, but in my
experience it is in no way inferior to the
imported article.
TASMANIAN GRAFTING.
“Huon”: This is how to do it. Prune
off small spurs and laterals, then drive
a small chisel into the limb at the desired
positions for scions, making incisions about
half an inch deep or a little more. Scions,
about 3in. long, are wedge-pointed and
driven carefully into the incisions. The
joints are then carefully painted over with
a preparation of equal parts of pitch, resin,
tallow and beeswax. This, applied when
fully liquefied by heat, sets quickly and
makes a thoroughly air-proof joint an essen-
tial. This method is first-class for grafting
over established trees, as it reduces the
sacrifice of grown wood to the minimum.
It is especially favored for inserting a “pol-
leniser,” as it will give a good mass of new
blossoms the first year after the operation.
THE HARNESS-ROOM.
“Mulgo”: Saddles and harness should
never be hung in stables, for the ammonia
generally present in such places tends to rot
the leather and sewing. Neither should they
be hung in an open shed; hot winds dry
and crack the leather, and moist winds bring
mildew. Kept in a separate, weather-proof
room, your gear will last twice as long.
The room may be built of split slabs. A
side shutter is convenient when you have
repairing to do on a wet day ; so is a bench—
a large case cut narrow will do—set under it.
Inside the case you can fit a shelf for keep-
ing, ready to hand, such things as needles,
rivets, awl, wax-ends, a leather knife and
split links.
Round pegs, about 20in. long and not less
than 2in. thick, driven into the wall serve
for hanging traces, backhands and the like.
For saddles and collars, take a thicker peg
of light wood, bevel the sides towards the
top, and nail on two narrow pieces of board
the length of the peg, thus forming the
shape of a gable roof. On this the saddle
or collar fits better and rests more securely.
Bridles and winkers hang on a hook or
stout nail underneath. A couple of stands
on peg-legs against the opposite wall are
also convenient for saddles and cloths. Have
a place for each set of harness, and keep
spare chains, straps, ropes, hobbles, head-
stalls and halters separate.
When you get a new set of harness, give
it a good soaking with neatsfoot oil before
using it. All harness should be oiled once
a year, and at all times kept clean. Grit,
particularly when caked with sweat, makes
sores. Watch the check side of collars for
lumps and dried sweat rings. A good plan
when they are hard or lumpy is to thump
them ov-er lightly with a hammer, and rub
over with the dandy brush.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Will saltbush grow in the south-west
of W.A.f (2) Where can I obtain seeds
of creeping varieties? —-2366.
(1) Two species which should thrive on
almost any but peaty soils in your district
are Atriplex muelleri (Queensland salt-
bush) and Atriplex semibaccatum (Berry
saltbush), which is a creeper. (2) W.A.
Agriculture Department has a small quan-
tity of Berry saltbush seed available for
distribution. Seed is also obtainable from
most seedsmen.
(1) Would the sandy soil at Alice Springs
be suitable for growing tobacco or peanuts?
(2) Would the frosts and extreme heat be
detrimental? (3) Would the Federal Gov-
ernment give assistance to an experimental
plot, and to what extent? —2348.
(1) and (2) Uncertainty of rainfall makes
such a project almost certain to fail. (3) No
funds available.
(1) Recipe for spray to kill flies? (2)
Recipe for a polish for brass? —2536.
(1) Mix thoroughly \\ pints petrol, | pint
kerosene and |oz. synthetic oil of winter-
green. The mixture is highly inflammable.
(2) Mix -|-pint methylated spirits, 2 table-
spoons kerosene, 1 tablespoon cloudy am-
monia and a dessertspoon of whiting. Bottle
and shake well before using.
How to make honey beer? —2520.
Simmer loz. hops in 5 quarts water for
20 minutes, then strain into a wooden tub
or barrel. Add honey, stir till well
dissolved, and leave to cool off to blood heat.
Then stir in 3 tablespoons yeast, cover and
keep warm. When the beer ceases to fer-
ment, strain it into bottles, cork and tie
down securely. Improves with keeping.
What is the cause of fowls eating their
eggs, and is there a cure?— 24B9.
All fowls will eat eggs when broken, and
suitable nests should be provided with nest-
ing material such as shell-grit or straw.
Detect and dispose of the birds which are
actually piercing the shells, as the habit
can’t be cured.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“McNoon”: Towels suitable for drying
the hands id the milking-shed and dairy can
be made from 701 b. sugar-bags. Cut each
bag down at the seam and continue round
the bottom and opposite side until the bag
is divided into two halves. Wash pieces
and, when dry, run a hem round the edges
of each. Stitch a loop of tape on one corner
to hang up and use. The oftener these
“towels” are washed the more soft and
absorbent they become.
“Nardoo”: A serviceable knife-sharpener
for the kitchen is an old handpiece-cutter.
Stick it tightly in a vertical crack in the
wall, stand with the top facing you, and
draw the knife across, first, one side, then
the other.
“Castille”: Try this for a fistula on a
horse. Just before it breaks lance it length-
wise, three or four inches, so as to leave
a pocket above and below the cut. Take
a stick with some rag tied to the end, and
after all the corruption has been squeezed
out, fill the cavity with slacked lime, using
the stick to put it in with. Turn the horse
out for two or three months, and you will
bring him in cured.
“McNoon”: When riding or walking in
the paddocks during “snake months,” carry
a straight piece of fencing-wire, 4ft. long,
and twisted back about 6in. at one end to
form a haft. There is no better weapon.
“E.H.M.”: Circles of flat galvanised iron,
cut about 18in. in diameter and fastened to
long handles, make light and effective fire-
beaters.
“Bloss”: If a bale-skewer is broken when
pressing wool, try making one out of a
prong of an old pitchfork; it has the right
steel and bend. Heat about three inches
of the thick-end and bend into a ring. Wire
rabbit-trap springs will serve the purpose,
too. Hammer to straighten—don’t heat, it
spoils the steel—and sharpen to a point on
a grinder. The length is 10 inches.
“Dimon”: A fly-trap used with good
results in milking yards is a light frame
about 2ft. square, covered on three sides
with wire gauze, and the bottom with wood.
Four circular holes, 3in. or 4in. in diameter,
are cut in the bottom, and into these are
fitted gauze cones or funnel-shaped cups,
small end upwards. The trap is set over
a bucket or barrel containing a little milk.
Flies, in trying to get at the milk, enter
the cones, go up through the small ends,
and are trapped. Set in a corner of the
yard, with a rail across the angle to keep
the cows away.
“Bullswool”: Last year, being unable to
buy the proper paper mulch, I used ordinary
newspaper and brown paper, four thick-
nesses of the white and two of the brown,
weighted down with earth. For cabbage and
similar lines I prepared the beds and
punched holes through for the seedlings ;
seeds in drills were sown through a long
knife cut. On a bed of a thousand tomatoes
I had no trouble whatever with wilt, whilst
plants in uncovered soil were bad in patches.
“Tena”; If you want to leave trees near
the garden, go round them to a depth of
at least 2ft., and cut off surface roots so
that cut portion is underneath on an angle;
this will make the new roots go downwards.
Thin out top hamper, water well beneath
trees, and you can grow vegetables right up
to within a couple of feet of the trunk.
Spinach grows well in these circumstances,
also herbs, melons and cucumbers, but they
should be well supplied with manure. Live
trees are beneficial in a garden if treated in
this manner.
“Lucky Day”: Station dogs should be
dosed regularly with areca nut (as much as
will fit on a sixpence in a piece of liver)
or ten drops of turpentine in a tablespoon
of castor oil. Starve for 24 hours before-
hand. Ten days later do the same again,
and then once a month. Either will clean
out worms and have the dog fit for work.
“Stump Jump”: “Jack Point” (B.
5/10/’32) claims that cows should show a
profit on a concentrate mixture. We have
not found this to be the case. Our 23 cows
earn 7s. Bd. per week each from decent
barley-grass pasture (not top-dressed). They
averaged over 401 b. of butterfat for six con-
secutive months in the winter with chaff
(oaten) only for a ration. Sometimes it
does pay to buy concentrate, as during a
bare period between two good lots of grazing.
It saves time and money then to have the
cows at their top. We are going to try a
feed guaranteed 25 p.c. protein costing about
£7 per ton landed here (Tatura, Vic.). If
that does not pay, we will stick to home-
grown stuff, such as ground oats and barley,
and lucerne chaff.
“E.H.M.”: The fuss made about the out-
break of tick fever on the Tweed River
(N.S.W.) last summer has resulted in the
M.L. authorities putting an embargo on all
paspalum seed harvested north of the
Macleay. This precaution against the intro-
duction of the cattle tick via importations of
paspalum seed is unnecessary. All seed con-
signed to southern and overseas markets is
thoroughly fumigated before it leaves the
district in which it is harvested, and investi-
gations have proved that not even an egg of
the redwater parasite will fertilise after it
has been subjected to the fumes of cyanide.
In the annual report of the Rothamsted
experimental station this pregnant para-
graph occurs: “Fallowing operations may
be worse than useless if they are not
thorough. After the autumn ploughing the
practice is to have the ground untouched till
early spring, but during this period weeds
are able, in favorable seasons, to flower and
seed, so that there may be more seed present
in the soil after fallowing than before. To
make fallowing effective, cultivation needs to
be frequent, and to be carried out during
the winter months as well as during the
normal growing season.”
“W. J.W.”: A crop of 28 tops of potatoes
per acre has been grown by A. S. Trou-
bridge, of Donnybrook (W.A.). The ground
was formerly a paspalum-and-couch pasture,
and was first ploughed to a shallow depth
with a disc plough, allowed to dry out and
then ploughed 9in. deep. Potato manure
was used at the rate of 3,| bags to every
bag of seeds. The sets were pressed into
the mould away from the fertiliser, sin.
deep. The soil is rich and friable.


Travel Interstate
by Sea
\
N.
M.V. WESTRALIA—T.S.S. KATOOMBA—M.V. MANUNDA
REGULAR WEEKLY SAILINGS.
To
Western Australia
THE modern Interstate liners have been equipped to meet the most luxurious
taste, to fulfil that demand for rest and comfort that a really enjoyable holiday
must give. Music, dancing and deck games, together with the bracing salt air,
are the ingredients that take anyone away from the cares of the land.
Here, then, is the opportunity for an ideal ocean holiday. The beauty spots of the
cool, sunny South and invigorating West are added spice to a perfect summer cruise.
Special first- and second-class return holiday concession tickets are available for six
months. Write or call for more detailed particulars.
ROUND TRIP OCCUPIES
19 DAYS FROM SYDNEY
14 DAYS FROM MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD. HUDDART PARKER, LTD. McILWRAITH McEACHARN, LTD. MELBOURNE S.S. CO., LTD.
AT AIX
PORTS.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell - ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Builder, all branches, wants j0b.—2645.
Young lady, domesticated, seeks position as com-
panion to Protestant lady. Refs.—262s.
Well-connected family with children at school
require caretaking of home in owner’s absence. Fond
of garden aud home-lovers. Refs. —2677.
Returned soldier (two years unemployed), trying
to establish circulating library, wants to buy good-
conditioned volumes of modern fiction at Is. each.
—2622.
Young schoolmistress desires position as governess
during Christmas vacation. Station preferred.—2692.
To buy Lorimer’s “Letters of a Self-made Mer-
chant to His Son.” —2700.
Words of “Miss Hooligan’s Christmas Cake.” —
2682.
Whereabouts of H. E. Mines, who resided in
Church-street, Hawthorn (Vic.) in 1927. —2701.
To exchange physical-culture course for Henley’s
“Twentieth Century Recipes.”—2676.
Position sought by stock expert, late assistant-
manager stud farm ; well-known writer.—2637.
To buy “A Hunter’s Wanderings in Africa,” by
Selous, and “The Squatter’s Dream,” by Rolf Boldre-
wood. —2569.
Words of Sitwell’s songs in Lambert’s composition
“Rio Grande.”—26o9.
Information Sought
(1) Is it possible to learn Japanese from
books? (2) What books a)'e required, cost
and where obtainable?— 2263.
(1) A great deal may be learned from
books concerning the written language, but
in the case of speech, conversation with a
Japanese teacher is indispensable. (2) J. L.
Thompson and Co., Kobe, stock suitable
books. Write them for catalogue. Ire-
monger’s “Introduction to Japanese Written
Language” may be obtained from the Asiatic
Society, London. All the books required are
pretty expensive.
(1) Is the Palmer Rivdr ( N.Q.) suitable
for prospecting for alluvial gold? (2) Is
there any difficulty in reaching the field from
Cairns? (3) Do abos. interfere with pros-
pectors?—l77B.
(1) Decidedly not by the ordinary fos-
sicker or prospector. (2) Yes; but the usual
way is from Cooktown. (3) No.
Was the clause in the Old Age Pensions
Act allowing a pensioner to earn 12s. 6d.
per week retained after recent amendments?
—2535.
The amended Act provides that total pen-
sion and earnings must not exceed £7l 10s.
per annum. Maximum rate of pension to a
man who is earning is £39 per annum. The
earning of 12s. 6d. per week would not dis-
qualify for pension.
(1) Is wood-polishing very hard to learn?
(2) Is it taught in Sydney, apart from
apprenticeship to a trade? I want to take
it up as a hobby. —2sls.
(1) Anyone with ordinary intelligence can
master the principles. Proficiency in prac-
tice is a matter of experience. (2) No, but
there are dozens of books on the subject.
Ask any big Sydney bookseller for a list.
Regarding the case of Frederick Belcher
( B. i4/9/’32), hoio could the Argentine law
be enforced if the citizen objected to joining
up for military service? —2398.
Argentine Consul-General states that if
an Argentine subject ignores the summons
to military service he is declared a deserter
and loses the rights of an Argentine citizen.
He will be refused an Argentine Govern-
ment passport and will be unable to travel
unless he becomes naturalised as a subject
of the country he is living in.
What was the result of the Johnson-
Willard fight for the world's championship;
number of rounds it went, and where fought?
—2447.
Willard won on a knockout in 26 rounds
at Havana, Cuba, on April 5, 1915.
(1) How are vacancies in the Australian
lighthouse service filled? (2) Qualifica-
tions? (3) Where to apply? —2s26.
(1) By advertising for applicants. At
present there are no vacancies, nor any
prospect of any. (2) To be successful an
applicant should be good at boat work and
signalling. (3) Deputy-Director of Navi-
gation and Lighthouses in the State in
which employment is desired.
(1) What maternity hospitals are there
in and around Sydney? (2) To whom
should an application for entrance as a nurse
be addressed? —2341.
(1) Royal Hospital for Women, Glen-
inore-road, Paddington; the Women's Hos-
pital, Crown-street, Sydney; St. Margaret’s
Hospital, Bourke-street, Sydney; South
Sydney Women’s Hospital, Gilpin-street,
Newtown. (2) To the matron of the insti-
tution.
Spray for rose-trees which are thick with
green aphis? —24B9.
Dissolve 4oz. of hard soap in 2 gallons of
hot water. Apply while warm.
The water in my fishpond turns a dark-
green color within 48 hours after it is
changed with a hose. Cause and remedy?
—2449.
The pond is receiving too much light, en-
couraging the spread of green algae. Plant
water-lilies, the leaves of which will spread
over the surface and provide shade.
(l)Can the holder of a patent prevent
me from making the patented device for my
own use? (2) If he can, what is the
penalty ? —2591.
(1) Yes. (2) He can obtain an injunc-
tion to restrain you from making use of
his patent without payment or authority,
and may sue you for damages.
(1) How is ping-pong played? (2) Is
there a specified way of holding the bat? —
2556.
(1) The ball must be served from beneath
the level of the table. Volleying is not per-
missible. It is not allowable to make an
overhand stroke ( i.e ., to hit the ball from
above). Each stroke counts as one point
to the winner. The usual game is 21 points.
(2) No.
What is the status of the official known
in Scottish law as a Procurator-Fiscal, and
what are his duties? —2538.
He is the local officer appointed formerly
by the sheriff with the sanction of the Home
Secretary, but now by the Lord Advocate.
His duties are a combination of those of
public prosecutor, coroner and grand jury
as these terms are understood in England.
My daughter ( aged 15) wishes to take up
commercial art. Could she learn at the
Sydney Technical College, and what would
be the fees and hours of attendance? Pros-
pects for young people taking up commer-
cial art?— 2376.
Sydney Tech. Coll, specialises in the train-
ing of commercial artists, but before accept-
ing a student a somewhat exacting entrance
test is insisted upon, and a period of pro-
bation is demanded in the introductory
course. Students who do not possess quali-
fications for success are not encouraged to
continue with the courses. Fees for the
day course are £1 Is. per term of 13 weeks
—-three terms per year. Attendance is from
9.30 a.rn. to 5 p.m. on five days each week.
Present prospects of employment are not
bright, but present conditions are not
normal.
(1) Could Duco be satisfactorily sprayed
on a motor-car body by means of a “ Flytox ”
spray. (2) Is it necessary to remove old
Duco? —2494.
(1) No. (2) No.
(1) How does electrical conductivity vary
in metals? (2) What factors cause a varia-
tion in resistance of a conductor? —2500.
(1) Among metals ordinarily used silver
is the best conductor, followed in order of
conductivity by pure copper, hard-drawn
copper, aluminium, platinum, iron and mer-
cury. (2) The resistance of a conductor
increases with its temperature and length,
and decreases with its sectional area.
(1) Can nickel-plating be done in a home
workshop? (2) If so, how can I nickel-
plate steel? (3) Any books on the subject?
—2417.
(1) It should be possible, as the process
is comparatively simple. A 6-volt d.c. supply
is necessary. (2) The object to be plated,
which must be clean, is hung in a lead-lined
vat containing a solution in the proportions
of nickel sulphate, 120 z.; nickel chloride,
40z.; boric acid, 20z.; water, lgal. A nickel
electrode is also suspended in the solution,
this electrode being joined to the positive
and the object to be plated to the negative
terminal. Electrodes must not be allowed
to touch one another, nor the sides of the
vat. The current density must be between
5 to 10 amperes per sq. ft. of surface to be
plated. The steel is generally first coated
with copper by immersion in a bluestone
solution. (3) “Electroplating with Chro-
mium, Copper and Nickel,” by Freeman and
Hoppe.
(1) How are aniline colors prepared?
(2) Are they suitable for painting? —2499.
(1) By the distillation of coal tar and by
oxidisation. (2) They are made up into
paints, but as they are not fixed in this
form they are liable to fade if exposed to
strong light.
What is sand-casting? —2sl9.
The usual method of casting metal. A
wooden pattern is made of the shape to be
cast and embedded in sand. The pattern is
withdrawn, leaving a mould in the sand,
which is then filled with molten metal.
What was the purpose of the N.S.W. Re-
duction of Interest Act , 1931, and wliat are
its main provisions? —2s2l.
It was one of the measures agreed upon
at the Premiers’ Conference, and its pur-
pose was to reduce interest payable on pri-
vate debts by a proportion of p.c. The
Act applies to the Crown where the debtor
is the Crown, but does not apply where the
Crown is entitled to receive interest. In
no case is interest on mortgages or hire-
purchase agreements to be reduced to below
5 p.c.; on mortgages to the Government
Savings Bank to below 5| p.c., or under
any debenture to below 4 p.c. Where in-
terest has been cut under the Moratorium,
the cut is taken into account. Every reduc-
tion made by the Act remains in force dur-
ing the continuance of the obligation affected.
(1) Where did the Indian “untouchable ”
castes come from? (2) What is their his-
tory? (3) How did they get into their
present miserable position? (4) Any book
dealing with their origin and history? —233(l
(1), (2) and (3) They are said to be the
descendants of the, dark-skinned Dravidian
race which the lighter-skinned ancestors of
the Hindus found in occupation of India. The
invaders formed themselves into three castes,
placing the aborigines outside the system as
“untouchables,” and delegating to them all
the lowest tasks, such as scavenging. (4)
“Stark India,” by Trevor Pinch. “Mother
Tndia,” by Katherine Mayo.
When teas the game of billiards introduced
in A ustra lia ? —2510.
In 1834, the proprietor of the Sliakspeare
Tavern, standing in Pitt-street, Sydney, about
where the Arcadia is to-day, set up the
first table, which he made himself. To pro-
vide the cushions, he bought up the entire
stock of rubber pencil erasers from the firm
which is now Penfold and Co.
(1) Must Australian subjects entering
South Africa produce a landing deposit; if
so, tohat is the amount? (2) Can shipping
cos. refuse to book unless the intending pas-
senger proves possession of the required
sum. ?- —2432.
(1) Not required from first-saloon pas-
sengers. Third-class passengers must pro-
duce a landing deposit of £3O. This deposit
does not guarantee admission, because under
the Union laws it is necessary for third-
class passengers entering South Africa with-
out employment to be in possession of £lOO,
but. so far as is known no Australian pas-
senger possessing £3O has been rejected. (2)
¥S3.
(1) What is the National Government of
China? (2) To whom does Manchuria
belong? (3) Constitution of Germany? —
2290.'
(1) It is a Committee Government with
headquarters at Nanking. Programme is
revolutionary, based on Sun Yat-Son’s Three
Principles, Nationalism, Democracy and
State Socialism. All Government offices
must be held by members of the Nationalist
party, the Kuomintang. (2) It belonged to
China. But this year, Japanese forces having
occupied Mukden, the capital, a republican
Government declared its independence, under
President Pu Yi, former Manchu Emperor
of China. Japan, alone among the Powers,
lias recognised “Manchukuo.” (3) Germany
is a Federal republic, with a President,
Paul von Hindenburg; a State Council, the
Reich srat; the Legislature of the republic,
the Reichstag; and State legislative bodies.
The Federal Cabinet is appointed by the
President, but must enjoy the confidence of
the Reichstag.
Information Supplied.
2283. —The revolving lawn sprinkler was
invented by Everard C. Brickhill, a blind
Victorian. —J.A.
2253. —How to eradicate the common
rush-like plant, Typhia augustifolia, from a
bore-drain without digging? I use a section
of a pair of old harrows cut with a hack-
saw to the width of the bore-drain. This
is weighted on top. With a good steady
horse I have been able to clear about four
miles a day. A temporary check that is
fairly effective is to cut below the water
with a short-bladed scythe.—J.
Brief Answers.
Constant Reader: Carter's “Advanced
Accounts” (Australasian edition), about 15s
V.P.M.: Write Mr. Taylor, Secretary, N.S.W. Debat-
ing Societies Union, c/o A.M.P. Society, Pitt-street,
Sydney C.B. J.: The information can’t be got.
G.H.: Write Dept, of Transport (Main Roads
Section), 309 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, for copy of
“The Establishment of Direct Road Communication
between Sydney and Newcastle,” by T. H. Upton
G.R.: (1) £810,666 10s. per acre. (2) About
£4OOO per foot including buildings. (3) Owing to
suitability of sites for their special requirements,
purchasers are prepared, in competition, to pay a
price in excess of what might be assessed as market
value. (4) Naturally the cost of site is an economic
factor in production costs South Yarra: The pre-
paration is at present in the experimental stage.
It is alleged to have a “rejuvenating” effect, but
very little is known concerning its applicability to
the conditions you mention Ross: (1) The treat-
ment requires strict medical supervision. Most cases
need insulin and this is dependant on observations
which only a medical man can make. Diet also is
important. (2) Angus and Robertson will advise
you as to books in stock. (3) Properly treated,
diabetes in people of middle age can generally be
cured. Time of recovery depends on severity of case.
. ...W.W.T.: The Incorporated Stage Society, 143
Regent-street, London, W.l D.H.: (1) “How to
Write Serial Fiction,” by Michael Joseph. (2)
“Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases,” by
Peter Roget T.T.G.: The usual course is to com-
municate with the local member, stating claims, and
ask him to forward the application to the Chief Sec.
. ...E.J.S.: Can’t be done by an amateur, and prob-
ably isn’t worth doing anyhow... .T.Q.: If a receipt
is demanded it must be given J.R.M.: Write to
Secretary, Child Welfare Department, Sydney, giving
full particulars enclosing mother's consent, and
evidence that you are able to maintain the child.
If all is found satisfactory, the Department, will
obtain an order from the Judge in Equity and the
adoption will be effected without expense to you. .. .
J.R.R.: The practice is to make the deduction on
the basis of the actual payment fft the date it is
made, irrespective of whether it is at the rate per
day, week or month... .I.McD.: Probably a
corruption of “bidyilli,” the prop-stick of a net
D. 8.: Because their language is derived from Latin.
. ...G.T.S.: Clara Butt, born at Southwick, Sussex,
received her musical education at the Royal Coliege
of Music, London. She married Kennerley Rumford
in 1900... .S.C.: Your rate of interest has been
reduced to 6 1-5 p.c. You owe £lB 12s. for the
year ended Sept. 30 last N. de W.: Little Aus-
tralian experience available, but pistachio nuts should
do well in any part of N. S. Wales free from frosts,
L. P. Rosen and Son, Carlingford, stock the trees
and can advise as to culture J.Y.W.: A course in
show-card writing, cither through a correspondence
school or by study of some of the many books on
the subject available, might be helpful.... W.M. du
B.: The process is complicated and not for the
amateur, who would require to spend more on
appliances and materials than would be necessary
to replace, new, all the articles he is ever likely
to repair. .. .V.A.W.: The tung oil industry is still
in the experimental stages here and no commercial
areas are yet in full production in Australia. There-
fore no very definite information can be given as
to commercial possibilities. .. .W.A.H.: Can’t trace
it. The N.S.W. Institute of Architects established a
Small House Plan Service Bureau, but it is not
now operating. Write to M. Chester, secretary of
the Institute, Science House, Sydney, who may be
able to assist you... .M.R.8.: (1) Only way is to
serve an apprenticeship. (2) Try Swain’s. ... Brick-
ette: It would take a fat text-book to describe the
process. Your informant is right about the time taken
for baking.... P.F.: (1) and (2) Assaying supplies
from Elliott’s, Australasian Drug, Ltd., Charlotte-
street, Brisbane; gold scale and pocket lens from
Fraser, Edward-street, Brisbane. (3) Watt’s “Geo-
logy for Beginners”... . J.J.: We can’t undertake to
advise as to which specialist you should consult....
D.W.8.: Before trying more expensive remedies, ex-
periment with a newspaper or a large sheet of tin
to see if reduction of the aperture will stop the
smoke. If this does not work, probably the brick-
work of the flue requires alteration.... J. 8.5.: Tun
Bulletin’s views on the subject will be found on
the editorial pages, 27/7/’32... .H.C.: Chief sandal-
wood buyer in Q. is a syndicate composed of R. J.
Murphy, W. McKnoe and H. Howe. Write to R. J.
Murphy, Box 83, Hughenden. .. . T.P.McI.: Get in
touch with Bonython metallurgical laboratory,
through S.A. Mines Department, with a view to
having the ore tested. The laboratory experts will
then be able to advise you as to most economical
method of treatment. .. .J.D.Q.: Only reference to
a scientific test we can trace is a statement made
by Prof. C. E. Inglis, of Cambridge, in a popular
lecture that he had tested a spider’s filament and
found it resisted a tensile strain equivalent to 70
tons to the sq. in. and had a specific gravity one-eighth
that of steel... .A.8.T.: A grounding in algebra
and a knowledge of trigonometrical principles are
essential. “Calculus Made Easy,” by D.r. Silvanus
P. Thompson, is most suitable for study without a
tutor... .J.S.: “Epsilon,” represented by e is the
mathematical symbol for the base of Naperian loga-
rithms—2.7lB2BlB etc J.K.: There are no suits in
poker; in the event of equality in straight or
flush, the stake is divided... .V.S.: Most probable
reason why Mozart’s sonatas are not played in public
by great pianists is that they are not very difficult.
As to Scarlatti, Levitzky included one of the sonatas
in his repertoire, and Tausig’s arrangement of the
“Pastorale” was played by Paderewski, CarreSo and
others. . . . (Many others mailed.)


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis : Patsy Quirk, Illawarra
■miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Sian
Carlisle, an artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing ,
“The Awakening of Titania.” Buff
pronounces it “ ’ot stuff”; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Beane, an
attractive commercial artist, to come
for an outing. She declines, telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “Titania”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Dcs
Quirk gets five years for attempted
murder during a, coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Des is quite re-
signed. Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff's
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy;
but it is Stan who brings them to-
gether again. On his advice Phyllis
takes some original ad.-designs. to
Wilbur P. Copp, of the Toms Adver-
tising Agency. Buying them, to her
astonished delight, he sends proofs of
them to head office in Los A ngeles.
Chapter XXIV (Continued).
PHYLLIS was enthusiastic about the
Toms Agency. “Mr. Copp was so
decent, too. I always thought Ameri-
cans called you ‘baby’ and ‘cutie’ and tried
to kiss you directly you went into the
office.”
“There’s a Yankee girl at the Stadium.
She never called me ‘baby’ or tried to kiss
me,” said Patsy. “I’d have borne up against
the insult, for she’s a mighty nice girl.”
“So there we are,” said Phyllis. “Sixty
pounds—sixty blooming pounds! Will I
buy Commonwealth Bonds or go out to the
races and make it into sixty thousand? Or
what’s wrong with a car?”
“Well spoken,” cried Stan. “What’s
wrong with my car? You seem to overlook
the fact that I have also joined the ranks
of the idle rich and have a Ford parked in
a garage eating its head off. Let’s cele-
brate this joyous occasion with a little trip
to Kuring-gai Chase.”
“It’ll be my last chance for a bit,” said
Patsy. “I’m to start training again on
Monday, and I’ll have Buff Cody hitting
the roof if I want a day off then.”
“I’m willing,” replied Phyllis.
Stan looked as if he was wanting to say
something else. “There’ll be four of us. I’m
bringing a girl I know. She’s a good sort.
I’ve been wanting you to meet her for a
long time, Phyllis; I’m sure you’ll like her.”
“All right; I’ll be glad to kno\y any
friend of yours, Stan; though”—she looked
meaningly at Patsy—“my experiences with
some of them liavenit been too happy.”
Patsy grinned. He was perfectly satis-
fied as to Phyllis’s attitude now, and knew
that there was no sting behind her rebuke.
“I hope she isn’t one of those models of
yours,” he said.
“No; she manages a tea-room,” ex-
plained Stan. “You need have no mis-
givings about introducing her among the
best people.”
“My experiences in the studio seem to
have brought me among the worst,” said
Phyllis, looking meaningly at Patsy again.
“Oh, don’t rub it in,” protested Patsy.
“No,” she replied caressingly, “it isn’t
fair of me. You’re a dear, as I told you
when I kissed you. It was a shameless
thing to do, but I’m a shameless sort of
person altogether.”
“Don’t try to change yourself,” said
Patsy. “I think I’m beginning to like
them that way.”
“We’ve both become demoralised,”
observed Phyllis. “I have, too, for I’m
going to your next fight. Stan’s going to
take me, aren’t you?”
Phyllis and Patsy found Emily Marlton
a delightful girl, both delightful to look
at and delightful in character. It was rather
a surprise, for your friends have a way of
making other friends who, too often, make
you wonder why they are endured. They
motored to Cowan Creek, had their lunch
at the kiosk, with oysters knocked from the
rocks, and bathed from the Causeway.
Emily looked a picture in her tangerine
costume— such a picture that Phyllis gazed
on her with open admiration.
“Stan.” she said, “you won’t be wanting
me any more. I’m sacked. She’s got me
down and out in figure—as Mr. Cody would
put it.”
“Beautiful lines, aren’t they?” he com-
mented, summing up Emily with the artist’s
eye. “How is it that the amateur model
is nearly always superior to the profes-
sional? It doesn’t seem right.”
When they had dressed they paired off,
Patsy with Phyllis, Stan with Emily. They
climbed the hill to explore the caves and
to study the aboriginal carvings on the
rocks. They collected wildflowers, and, as
the sun grew low, returned to town to finish
the evening with dinner and a dance at
the Regal.
“You take Emily home in the car,”
ordered Phyllis.
Stan began to protest, but he knew that
when Phyllis had made up her mind argu-
ment was futile. “We’ll get the tram to
Bondi,” she added.
“We’ll do nothing of the kind,” retorted
Patsy. “Taxi!” he called. “You don’t
expect two wealthy people like ourselves
to travel by tram. Some of our society
friends might see us and our names would
be Mud for ever after.”
They entered the taxi and whirled out
to Phyllis’s lodgings. Patsy paid off the
chauffeur, for the camp was only a few
hundred yards distant. Somehow, though
he was still heartfree regarding Phyllis, that
kiss she gave him made him want to kiss
her again. He didn’t try in the taxi, for
that would have been taking an unfair
advantage. But, at the gate, he did try.
“Nothing doing!” she remarked, smother-
ing like an expert.
“But, you kissed me at the studio,” he
argued.
“That was a special occasion, Mr. Quirk.”
“Why Mr. Quirk, now?”
“When you try to kiss me. you’re Mr.
Quirk; at other times, you’re Patsy.”
She smiled a trifle provocatively. Patsy
wondered for a flash of a second whether
she was challenging him to take her in his
arms and kiss her rapturously. Then he
noted something in her eye which was dis-
quieting. She held out her hand.
“Good-night, Patsy.”
“Good-night, Phyllis,” he replied, opening
the gate for her and raising his hat.
“Nice time fur a bloke jest gointer start
trainin’ ter be gettin’ ’ome,” muttered Buff
Cody from his bunk as Patsy switched on
the light. “Whur yer bin aw this time.”
“I’ve been out with Stan and Miss
Deane.” 1
“Miss Deane,” murmured Buff, snuggling
himself down in his bed again. “Ah, that’s
aw right.”
Chapter XXV.
Harry Kloof, the South African middle-
weight, who was Patsy’s next opponent, was
a man of immense strength. He could hit
a blow harder than most heavies. He was
not a skilful boxer, but he was wise to many
of the tricks of the game, and a large pro-
portion of Sydney’s fight followers confi-
dently anticipated that his reach and power
would stop the triumphant career of Patsy
Quirk. Even Buff Cody confided to Stan
that Patsy could take no chances —a blow
from Kloof on the right spot would wooden
a bullock,' Buff averred.
The attendance was again so large as
to fill the house. Phyllis was there with
Stan and De Vernay, while a few seats away
she saw Copp and Gaffney.
“That’s the Deane girl there in the front
row,” remarked Copp to his companion.
“Some looker,” commented Gaffney.
“Seems to have brains behind it, too.”
“Sure,” agreed Copp. Then across the
aisle: “Good evening, Miss Deane. Would
you like to back your fellow countryman?
One of your drawings to a box of the best
silk stockings, eh?”
“Done.” cried Phyllis. “Stan,” she added,
“that’s Mr. Copp of the Toms Agency—
the man who’s saved me from obscurity
and poverty.”
“Looks all right,” commented Stan.
The early part of the first round indicated
that the apprehensions of Sydney sports-
men had been well grounded. Kloof let
out mighty swipes—one of them caught
Patsy on the shoulder and sent him stag-
gering to the ropes. In the clinches he
threw the Australian about like a feather-
weight. But the South African suffered
from the same disability as Achilles—he had
one weak spot, and a spot so weak that it
prevented his ever becoming a champion
or a near champion. Kloof, master inflicter
of punishment, could not take punishment
himself. In the second round Patsy caught
him a clip on the jaw which Joe Tolani
would have brushed aside. Kloof dropped,
and, though he was apparently little hurt,
took his full nine. Later in the round some
straight lefts of Patsy’s seemed to cause
him considerable trouble.
“Don’t be led into a trap; he’s kiddin’,”
whispered Buff Cody as they entered the
third round.
But Kloof wasn’t kidding. He took some
more straight lefts, rushed Patsy on the
ropes and made an heroic endeavor to
terminate the fight by sheer weight of
metal, and then took a hook on the jaw
that sent him down again. Even then
neither Patsy nor Buff nor the onlookers
were satisfied that the man’s distress was
genuine. He fought so strongly when he
was in the aggressive that he appeared to
be waiting for some opening. Patsy was
so wary that he let the next round finish
undoubtedly in Kloof’s favor. The fifth
round saw Patsy send in five straight lefts
in succession. They carried little weight
comparatively, but they had Kloof hanging
on the ropes.
“Look out, look out, he’s kidding!”
yelled the crowd to Patsy, and Patsy
decided to take no chances. A moment
later they were in a clinch. Kloof swung
Patsy about like a feather, but he made
the mistake of not throwing him far enough.
Patsy landed him a short uppercut on
the jaw, and to the surprise of all but
Kloof’s own seconds, who had come from
South Africa with him and knew his fault,
he squatted on the floor, turned sideways
like a foundering ship and stayed down.
Quirk in the sixth.
“Oh, this is wonderful!” said Phyllis to
Stan and De Vernay. She was flushed and
excited and her nails had cut into her
gloves during those tense moments when
Kloof had seemed to prevail. “I suppose
it’s brutal and horrible and repulsive, but
it is a glorious picture.”
“It’s the pictorial side of it that appeals
to you?” suggested De Vernay.
“Not altogether,” she went on. “It’s all
so different from what I had imagined. You
don’t notice the brutality. The speed is
so great and the good qualities—the courage
and the skill and the determination—drive
any qualms out of your mind. When I
said I’d come I had an idea I’d be utterly
disgusted; but I’m not a bit.”
Somebody spoke at her side. “The stock-
ings are yours, Miss Deane,” said Copp.
“But I’ll take that drawing, anyhow, when
you’ve got it—same terms as the rest.”
“Thank you, Mr. Copp,” she replied, and
was introduced to Gaffney. Stan and De
Vernay were then made acquainted with
the Americans, and they made their way out
of a side door.
“It’s no use waiting for Patsy to-night,”
said Stan. “He’s had a fair issue himself,
although he looked fresh at the end. Any-
how, Buff and the rest’ll want him to get
home. Let’s get into town. Come round
to my studio and have some supper.”
“We thank you,” said Copp. “Where is
it?”
“You’d better follow my car. I suppose
you’ve one of your own.”
Stan drove back with Phyllis and De
Vernay, the others a couple of lengths
behind watching his number plate. Phyllis
got busy in the studio getting out the
tablecloth and plates. Then she noticed
that her familiarity with the surroundings
was making the Americans wonder.
“It’s a pity you can’t raise Emily,” she
suggested. In order to remove any pos-
sible misapprehensions and even up the
sexes of the party she wished the presence
of another woman.
“I’ll give her a ring and go round for her
if she’s free,” said Stan, with apparent
pleasure at the suggestion.
He got busy on the ’phone as Phyllis
was completing preparations for the supper,
and in a minutes drove up with Emily,
who was introduced all round.
Copp was purely an ad. man. He knew
art only as a means to attract the customer.
For the practice of the fine arts in their
higher forms he had little use. Gaffney,
on the other hand, was something of a
connoisseur. In his youth, he confessed to
them, he had had hopes of becoming an
artist and before Los Angeles had risen to
the proud position of being the motion
picture centre of the world and the pos-
sessor of the Otis Art Institute, he had gone
to San Francisco and there studied art at
the old inadequate school at the foot of
California-street. He had painted the usual
things—San Francisco’s waterfront, the
Seal Rocks, Mount Tamalpais, the sequoias
of Muir Woods and the famous Carmel
pine. He had even spent a couple of
months at Taos, trying to depict Indian
life, and tramped through desert areas in
Arizona and New Mexico. Then he found
that art does not pay except in its veiy
highest forms and deserted it for commerce.
But the man yvho has once tasted of the
dope of art finds it difficult to divest him-
self wholly of its lure. Gaffney was always
ready to forget the more important work of
money-making to discuss tone values or
beautification or color, and many a time had
to pull himself up from backsliding into
habits that would have proved his financial
undoing.
To-night Gaffney was in his element. He
was able to talk pictures with Stan and
Phyllis and De Vernay, to revel in study-
ing Stan’s half-finished work and his rough
sketches, to hear the stories, humorous and
personal, of Australian artists who, to him,
were yet only names, and, better than all’
to recall his own student days in Russian
Hill by an atmosphere which was so like
the atmosphere in which he had met his
wife, then a student like himself.
Gaffney became popular with all—even
with De Vernay. Very few minutes sufficed
to make De Vernay forget his British pre-
judices against the hated Yanks.
Not that Copp was obscured. He held
his own all the time, with his breezy humor
and his yarns about prominent Rotarians,
Kiwanis, Lions and Californians Incorpo-
rated with whom he had done much busi-
ness, but whose seriousness towards them-
selves and their organisations filled him
with good-natured amusement. He enter-
tained Emily especially by his whimsical
descriptions of certain peculiarly American
institutions, such as the Mystic Shriners,
the Sciotes and the Tabernacles of the
Colored Pentacostal Brethren.
It was altogether one of those delightful
gatherings in which all feel friends and inti-
mates, gatherings which cannot be conjured
up by wealth or influence or even good-
will, gatherings which come by chance and
cannot be encored.
‘'Miss Deane, I was serious at the Stadium
about that drawing. I want another. Can
you look me up to-morrow —say at eleven?”
“I’ll be there,” assured Phyllis, slipping
behind to whisper the glad news to Stan.
“Good!” said Stan. “I’m glad to see you
getting a bit of luck at last, Phyllis, you
deserve it.”
“And you deserve your latest bit of luck,
Stan. I congratulate you.”
“What do you mean, Phyllis?”
“You know well enough, Stan. Why,
you’re head over ears in love with that
girl and she’s just the dearest thing.”
“I do like her,” admitted Stan. “But
I’m not so sure about her views of me.”
“I wish I was as sure of unloading fifty
designs on our Yankee friends,” she argued.
“And, Stan—you’ve got to tell her I’m
sitting for you; tell her as soon as you can.
I’m not going to have any more miscon-
structions or throwing fits. Some of your
friends want shock-absorbers fitted to them,
and, although they are dear things, I’m
taking no more chances. Let her know
before it goes any further.”
Chapter XXVI.
Patsy accounted for two more of the
imported men—the first in two rounds and
the second by a huge margin of points. He
had manifestly suffered nothing by his long
spell of inaction. He was fighting with all
his old vim, and every match showed him
steadily advancing in his knowledge of
ring tactics. He was proud, but not vain;
Buff Cody was proud and vain, too. He did
not grow blustex-ous or offensive, but he
made it plain to all that, as the trainer of
the world’s greatest middleweight—for that
is what he called Patsy—he was automatic-
ally thrust into the position of the world’s
greatest trainer.
“A sad case of cephalic hypertrophy,”
obsex-ved De Vernay to Joe Tolani. “But
he’ll soon get over it. He’s too good a
fellow to let it get him down.”
“Too right, he is,” assented Joe.
Pugilism had found a new devotee in
Phyllis. She had seen Patsy win both
fights and had emitted little shrieks of
delight and terror as the contest veered one
way and the other. She was in a permanent
job now. Copp had been as good as his
word, when he gave her the order for the
extra drawing, handing over the box of silk
stockings, in spite of the girl’s protests.
The earlier drawings had been taken up by
certain Sydney firms and had proved so
successful that another company of manu-
facturers, not among the Toms Agency
clientele, had sent for her and given her
an order.
“Gee!” cried Copp when he saw the
advertisement. “These boys are getting
wise. What’s wrong with tying up our
lady friend?”
“I guess we should have done that from
the start,” hazarded Gaffney. The result
was that Phyllis accepted an offer of ten
pounds a week for a term of three years
to work exclusively for the Toms Agency.
The contract had been signed about a
month when Copp called her into his office.
“Ever had any wish to go to America?”
he asked.
“I’d like to,” replied Phyllis. “Some
day.”
“How’d the Niagara on the fifteenth ot
next month suit you?”
“What!” she cried. “How do you mean?’
“See here,” he explained. “When I got
your first lot of drawings I showed them
to Gaffney, and he agreed we ought to send
along pulls to our head office in Los
Angeles. We’ve got a reply from the presi-
dent of the company. He wants you over
there. He offers you two thousand four
hundred dollars a month—somewhere
around fifteen pounds a week—transporta-
tion both ways and a hundred dollars pocket
money on the trip across from here. You'll
have to sign on for three years, salary to
date from the day you start work there.
How is it?”
Phyllis was speechless. “I—l—can hardly
say,” she replied, when she had composed
herself a little. “I’ll have to think it over.
Mr. Copp. Of course, I’m awfully grateful
to you for this. I appreciate it very much,
indeed. But I’ll have to think about
different things. You understand, don’t
you?”
“That’s all right, little girl,” replied Copp.
“I know it’s a big break, cutting away from
everybody you know. It was a bit of a
shock to me, and my position’s very
different from yours.”
Phyllis walked round to Stan’s studio in
a dream. She could scarcely believe it w:i-
possible that in six weeks she might be iu
a strange countiy, with not a soul she
knew or had ever heard of all around her.


sm
m
■
sss?
m
M
I
mm
m
m
m
ills
M
it
m
S
«§
9
m
y
m
.
se
r JM
BLEACH & BLEACH
ua
HARDY’S
WINES
°f
TINTARA
a#
rx
k
s
I?.
Si
l
sV>
jffi
m
m
m.
Sr :
>4
ii
&
n
1
v-
Loved by every child,
these delicious fresh
milk Biscuits will be
eagerly eaten when
other foods are refused.
Manufactured by
WILLIAM ARNOTT LIMITED,
THE BISCUIT SPECIALISTS
of 64 years’ experience.
MESSRS. WILLIAM ARNOTT LIMITED
have received between 35,000 and 40,000
unsolicited photographs, with testimonials,
from grateful mothers whose fine healthy
children have been reared upon these Famous
Biscuits from the age of six months.
RNorrrs
FAMOUS
. MILK
ABMWfiOOT
BISCUITS
Always Ask For Arn o t t’s,
and make sure you get them.
She was sober even to sadness when she
told Stan and asked his advice.
“Of course, you’ll have to take it, Phyl,”
he said. “It’s the chance of a lifetime. But
I’ve a selfish objection to losing a mate of
mine.”
“That’s not so serious,” she laughed.
“You’ll soon have a closer mate than I’ve
ever been, if I’m not greatly mistaken.”
“Then I don’t like the idea of a girl like
you going into a strange country alone.
You’ll have nobody to look after you.”
“Do I want anybody?” she demanded.
“Haven’t I looked after myself since Dad
died?”
“But you belong here; you’ve been
brought up to our conditions of life. You
don’t know what situations you may be
placed in; what sort of men you’ll meet
over there.”
“So it’s my morals you’re worrying about,
not my finances,” she smiled. “And for
the last year I’ve been alone for hours at
a time with a man of questionable repu-
tation, stark naked, and got through with-
out a stain on my character.”
“We’re freak people, Phyllis, as I told
you before. I looked on you as different
from other women and so you are.”
“Not a bit of it; I’m the same as the
rest.”
“You’ve a strain of firmness about you
that may carry you through anything.”
“You don’t like to say hardness?”
“No, not hardness, but an absence 0f....
we 11”....
“Coldness?”
Stan mused. “Well, perhaps.”
“Oh, my goodness!” she laughed. “What
a lucky thing for us poor working girls
that you men are such hopeless goats at
psycho-analysing women. You classify me
among the cold ones just because I happen
to get through. Because I’m not explosive
you conclude that I’m not inflammable. But
you’re not the only one. I’ve been told
before that I’m sexless.”
“But I didn’t mean” he protested.
“Yes, you did,” she retorted. “You didn’t
want to be offensive, but you meant that I
was deficient in the sex feeling of the aver-
age girl. As a matter of fact, Stan, I
regard sex as such an important thing that
I don’t want to waste it. I’m not virtuous
because it’s the right thing, or because
somebody said something he’d heard some-
body else say. I’m virtuous because I
want my virtue to be something worth
giving away. I’m not going to trifle with
it. It’s too precious a thing, and it only
becomes valuable when you’re ready to lose
it.. And remember this—the worst waste
of the lot is to carry it to your grave.”
“I say, Phyllis,” he observed with a •
smile, “this is something of a revelation.
I had no idea you’d given such a deep
study to the subject.”
She laughed. “What do you think I’ve
been doing all these years I’ve been knock-
ing about with different boys—very few of
them so well-behaved as you? I’ve just
frozen them because they fell short—and
I suppose all of them thought it was be-
cause I was sexless. They didn’t think it
was possible for a girl to resist such wonder-
ful fascinations if she were normal! I
look forward to being married, but I look
forward to love-marriage or no marriage.
And I look forward to it so eagerly that
I am determined not to spoil it. That’s
my philosophy of sex, whether you regard
it as noble or depraved or anything else
I can’t help it. Some day I hope to be a
graduate and I will unless I’m hit by a
tram or something. But you can rest
assured, Stan, I’m not going to be anybody’s
victim. Make your mind easy on that.”
“My mind’s easy as far as you’re con-
cerned,” he replied. “My sympathy’s all
for the men now. I don’t know who I
ought to be sorriest for—the poor Yank
who makes advances to you, or the poor
Yank you set your heart on.”
“Now, that’s rude,” she laughed, “and
you’ve never been rude to me before, Stan.”
Chapter XXVII.
On the voyage across the Pacific, Phyllis
had occasion to demonstrate her apparent
sexlessness several times. A couple of aspir-
ing lovers took the count and transferred
their affections elsewhere; the rest remained
good friends with Phyllis, content to let
their differences of opinion on matters
amatory drop and be forgotten.
She had had a great send-off from Darl-
ing Harbor. “The funniest bunch I’ve
seen since we came here,” observed Copp to
Gaffney as he ran his eyes over the hetero-
geneous collection of friends gathered to see
the last of the girl they loved. The art
schools had poured forth a couple of scores
of students, boys and girls; Buff Cody had
brought a crowd from the Stadium and the
’Loo, convinced that the more there were
to hold streamers on the wharf the greater
the honor to Phyllis. So it was that young
men with thick ears rubbed shoulders and
cheered with young men in flowing ties,
and a few strange-looking furtive men,
obviously ill at ease, kept out of the view
of the policemen on the planking.
had thrilled with another kiss from
Phyllis, but it was only a shared kiss—one
of a dozen distributed as a final favor
among her intimates. Then the Niagara
swung round the edge of Millers Point and
Phyllis rushed to her cabin and wept—wept
lor the first time,since she had seen Dad’s
cornn. taken to the hearse.
The Niagara’s passengers were a cheerful
crovvd, so Phyllis enjoyed herself as well
as it is possible to enjoy a sea voyage.
She rushed around Auckland in the sight-
seeing cars, visited tbe native village at
Suva and was honestly sorry to leave the
ship’s company when they reached Hono-
lulu. A few of the passengers were staying
on there for a holiday; the rest were going
on to Vancouver, and not one. intended
transhipping for Los Angeles by the City
of Los Angeles—the vessel on which Phyllis
was booked to leave a few days later.
Those few days she lived strenuously in
accordance with true tourist tradition. She
put up at the Halekolani Hotel, saw the
fish in the aquarium and the market, ate
poi with her fingers at a Hawaiian dinner,
was held up by the sentry at Fort Shatter,
braved the winds of the Pali and surfed at
Waikiki. Accustomed to the perfection of
Sydney’s beaches, she marvelled over the
wa.y rvorld-reputations are made, but she
was tactful. When residents asked her how
Waikiki compared with the Australian surf
centres, she would reply that the cocoanut
palms made Waikiki far more beautiful.
The City of Los Angeles was a full ship,
but there was not an Australian on board
with the exception of the chief steward.
Every other soul was an American, and for
the first time in her life Phyllis was able
to study the Yank in the mass.
She made the astonishing discovery that
among Americans it is possible to acquire
wealth and still preserve your sense of
humor. Every Australian capitalist she had
known and every English one was a grave,
dull man whose interests were seemingly
bounded by the operations of the share
market, the prospects of business and the
menace of Labor legislation. If they had
ever possessed any sense of humor in their
indigent youth, it had been eliminated by
time, or had been wilfully suppressed lest
it might detract from the owner’s dignity.
But here she found millionaires—multi-
millionaires—as gay and irresponsible in
their hours of ease as if they did not pos-
sess a penny beyond next week’s wages.
The women appeared to have drunk freely
at a Fountain of Youth against which there
was operative no Eighteenth Amendment.
They had grown old in face and form like
the women of the rest of the world, but
they remained girls in voice and manner.
Phyllis was keenly critical, but could find
no fault that could not be laid against
other nationalities.
Certainly there was nothing boastful
about them, except with regard to their
own home town. “Miss Deane,” said one
grey-haired old lady with the alertness of
a mere flapper, “while you are in the
States you’ll probably see Los Angeles and
Chicago and N’York. But before you quit
don’t leave out Four Corners, Ohio. We
regard Four Corners as the greatest little
town in the Middle West. We’re not so
big yet, but we guess we’ve made it the
model city of the Republic, and in a few
years you’ll find that we’ve pushed Chicago
and N’York off the map.”
If it was not Four Corners it was Salome,
Arizona, or Bell Harbor, Michigan, or some
other centre of which Phyllis had never
heard. The mighty faith in the future of
their own particular districts seemed to be
the first article of the American creed. She
did not hear a comparison of American
cities or institutions to the detriment of
those of other lands. She found on all hands
an intense interest in Australia, and a spirit
of warm friendliness towards the Com-
monwealth on the other side of the Pacific.
All her past teaching had been wrong. She
liked these people.
She was amused at the exaggerated
courtesy of the American men. They
appeared to leave the gallants of French
history in the novice class. She remarked
upon it to Chapman—Elmer P. Chapman,
research director of a jam factory at Fresno.
Chapman smiled. “Yes,” he observed. “One
of our wise men—an American himself—
says we’ve got more courtesy to women
and less respect for them than any other
nation on earth.”
Certainly Phyllis encountered the usual
proportion of shipboard sheiks. Young men
who would stand respectfully hat in hand
whenever they addressed her but would not
hesitate behind the boats to embrace her
and endeavor to kiss her without the usual
preliminaries. But that was to be expected
on any ocean voyage, according to the con-
fidences of a much-travelled girl from
Kansas City with whom Phyllis shared her
cabin.
A fair proportion of the people were
Angelenos, and Phyllis marvelled at their
overwhelming hospitality. The moment
they found she was bound for the same city,
they impressed on her her marvellous luck
in going to live in the finest city on God’s
green earth, and promptly invited her to
stay at their homes. By the time San
Pedro loomed on the horizon she had a
score of such invitations, and had made
three-score acquaintances which she sin-
cerely hoped might be developed into
friendship.
{To be i continued next week.)
The Garden Worker.
She lives her life with flowers, and so,
The swaying branches lend her grace,
And dewy buds and blossoms go
To make the beauty of her face.
The fragrant freshness of the rose
Blooms in her cheeks before it dies;
And, drowned in depths of dim repose,
Larkspurs are mirrored in her eyes.
And, striding o’er the upturned soil,
With roughened sun-burnt look, she seems,
Clad in the dingy garb of toil.
To walk in richness past all dreams!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


SMOKERS!
INSIST UPON
AUSTRALIAN MADE
IE NIL
I SUPER QUALITY
CIGARETTE PAPERS
CHEAPER AND BETTER
THAN BEST IMPORTED
i
Hestle’ s
Vr(|6MT
• • •
The sportsman’s drink
Invigorating!
There’s new energy in this delicious drink . . . full of the
rich nutriment of pure malt and full-cream milk.
A daily glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk ensures perfect
physical fitness .. . always.
w
NESTLES MALTED MILK
808 COPYRIGHT
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Chatham captivated Melbourne racegoers
by the manner of his victory in the Vv. S,.
Cox Plate at Moonee Valley. This event
is run at standard weight-for-age, except
that no allowance is made to geldings.
Though opposed by Johnnie Jason, Viol
d’Amour, Denis Boy, Oro and others, A. E.
Blair’s crack galloper started at 10 to 9,
with Viol d’Amour (7 to 1) nearest to him
in the betting. It shows the extent to which
Chatham has improved since the autumn
that, whereas Viol d’Amour landed the
A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes at the end of March
and Chatham could not finish nearer than
fifth, Chatham put “paid” to the account of
Ned O’Dwyer’s chestnut on this occasion
with consummate ease. The 91 furlongs
track at Moonee Valley is of unique shape.
Horses gallop across the centre of the flat
and turn into the course proper about seven
furlongs from home. After leading early,
Chatham permitted Johnnie Jason to assume
control; he reversed positions immedi-
ately Jim Mu.nro asked for an effort and
won', easing up, by nearly a length from
Viol d’Amour, who had made a game but
utterly hopeless effort to overhaul the Syd-
ney star.
Johnnie Jason tired and was 21 lengths
behind Viol d’Amour. The most noteworthy
display by a beaten animal was that
given by Oro. the Victoria Derby candi-
date. According to Frank Dempsey, who
will ride him in the classic contest, the
Roger de Busli colt is a one-pace horse.
1-Ie tailed off in the first half-mile, but came
home well. It is Dempsey’s conviction that
Bert'.* Lets go into the paddock.".
Gert: * What for ?"
Bert : *oh, I iviiqht pick, sows
V\MMHERSt
GERT ; " MORE. UK£UY MUSHROOMS'."
Jack King’s candidate will need a pace-
maker in the Derby, If Streperus starts
the pace may be sound enough to satisfy
him.
After seeing Chatham win, Blair, the
owner returned to Sydney,_ but he an-
nounced before leaving that his horse’s next
appearance would be in the V.R.C'. Cantala
Stakes. Chatham’s impost has been raised
to 9st. 61b., and he will have to concede
71b. to Winooka, who ran third to him in
the Epsom Handicap. Backed down to 6
to 4, Winooka annexed the Dundonald Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley in convincing style.
He is brilliant, but a mile seems just a
shade farther than he cares to go in select
company.
The Moonee Valley Gold Cup field was
disappointing in calibre. Shadow King, top-
weight with 9st., being favorite. _ The aged
son of Comedy King usually shines in the
spring. In 1939 lie finished third in the
Melbourne Cup, and last year he was second
to White Nose. If High Brae had been
saddled up on Saturday he would have been
the elect of backers. However, Jack Holt
scratched Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s representa-
tive, and it has since transpired that the
handsome chestnut, who ruled so long as
favorite for the Caulfield Gup, is “all to
pieces” physically. It may be dangerous
to put any dependence on week-end form
in Melbourne, as the turf was heavy, in con-
sequence of much rain earlier in the week.
The riders of. Silent Bird and Roc engaged
in a cut-throat duel, which resulted in both
horses snuffing out three furlongs from
home. At this stage it looked a “moral”
for Havering. For once the Maoriland geld-
ing got away on favorable terms and McCar-
teil kept him in a handy position through-
out. Havering slipped through on the rails
at the home turn, but Yarramba joined
issue at the distance and beat, him home
by three-iquarters of a length, with Shadow
King, who had been badly placed at tne
back of the course, a creditable third and
Iluach fourth.
Yarramba belongs to E. (“Darcy”) Eccles,
the former amateur billiard champion of
Victoria. In 1914 Eccles landed the Aus-
tralian Cup with. Wallalo, and subsequently
he was successful in a Warrnambool Cup
with Swagger; but of recent years his luck
as a horseowner has npt been good. Stanley
Reid, the trainer of* Yarramba, won the
V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase on two
occasions on Mountain God. He has always
shared the high opinion formed of Yarramba
by his patron, and they threw in for a sub-
stantial win on Saturday, the Spearhead
gelding being back from long odds down to
12 to 1. Consequent on his victory at “the
Valley,” Yarramba has come into request
for the Melbourne Cup, and, being a true
stayer, he may have an outside chance.
:S $ if :|:
This Page expects Liberal to win tlie Vic-
toria Derby and Middle Watch the Mel-
bourne Cup. King has a high opinion of
Oro, and his judgment is to be respected;
but on three-year-old form the Roger de
Busli —Sweet Alison colt is not entitled to
be favorite with Liberal in the field. lie
was well beaten by Peter Pan in the A.J.C.
Derby, and Peter Pan was pipped for third
place in the Caulfield Cup by Top Hole —
certainly he ran green, and got no more help
from Knox than Satmoth did in the Metrop.
—whom Liberal downed in the Caulfield
Guineas after having all the worst of the
luck in running. There is no good reason to
suppose that Windbag’s son will not go a
mile and a half. His sire was a great stayer,
and the son finishes stoutly. Top Hole,
Gaine Carrington, Oratory, Streperus, Ruach
and Eastern Chief are also in the race.
None of them looks like bothering Liberal
and Oro.
A good four-year-old is always dangerous
in the Cup. In the last seven years Wind-
bag and Niglitmarch won with 9st. 21b.,
Statesman with Bst. and Phar Lap with 9st.
121 b. Middle Watch is no Phar Lap, but
as the winner of two Legers and the Caul-
field Stakes he must be accounted well in
with Bst. 111 b. He has thoroughly satisfied
expectations, on the training track and with
the colors up, and it will be strange if he
does not prove himself a two-miler. Lough
Neagh, another proved four-year-old, is even
better handicapped than Middle Watch—he
bag on ] y 7gti It is a nice weight for
a j>andwick Plate winner, and though
opinions differ as to the formidableness of
the opposition in that two-mile affair at
w f a the Queensland chestnut certainly
came b ome strong; moreover he had
pi . ev i ous j y run a good third in the Metrop.
wbeil obviously needing a race. Rogilla
(g s t. 51b.) sto-ms capable of almost any-
thing except winning in select company at
w f >a . The market rates Peter Pan (7st.
71b ) tbe best of th e three-year-olds, but
the Cup rarely goes to a youngster who has
done so little racing. It seems unlikely to
be. a three-year-old’s year, though Peter Pan,
Liberal and Oro are above the average.. Denis
Boy’s Metrop. victory was full of merit, and
he is not to be despised even with 9st. lib.
Fanciesj
Maribyrnong Plate: Limarch; next, Lis-
burn. r n i t n o m
Victoria Derby: Liberal, 1; Oro, 2; Top
Hole, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Chatham ; next, Winooka.
, Melbourne Cup: Middle Watch, 1; Lough
Neagh. 2; Rogilla, 3.
' -
Four-year-olds are having a great season
in Sydney, but, for a change, only one horse
of that age prevailed at Moorefield, and he
happened to be the longest-price winner.
The race was the Maiden Plate, and the
animal a chestnut gelding called Opinion,
owned and trained by George Foulsham, and
ridden by Finch. Munson, so unfortunate
with the late Indra, was represented by
Nellabar (6 to 1), and when this Silvias
filly led into the straight it looked as if his
luck had turned at last. But a late run
gave it to Opinion (12 to 1) by a head,
Forestry, the favorite, was interfered with
by Opinion, and Finch, the latter’s rider,
goes on the ice for two months.
Fordlight (late Rufflight.) was very suc-
cessful last season in suburban company,
but his burly appearance did not warrant
the rush to back him for a division of the
Flying Welter “first up.” He had had
enough at five furlongs, and Accepted (7 to
2), a Caravel gelding owned by Ike
Andrews, and trained by him at Warwick
Farm, won easily from Labor Girl (6 to 1)
and Red Shadow (same price), a brother
to Magnetic, who finished wide out. The
second division went to Poponaise (6 to 1),
a smart horse from the country, by Popin-
jay—Polonais, but Wanderlust (9 to 4),
favorite and runner-up, will do better with
seasoning. She is a four-year-old bay mare
by Archery—Wanda M., both imported.
Booth brought two old stagers, Don Moon
and Nut Cup, from Rosehill, and his fol-
lowers made each favorite —Don Moon for
the Moorefield Handicap and Nut Cup for
the Ilurstville Mile. Don Moon was third
to Bawm-na-Glas (7 to 1), another ancient
from Rosehill, and Lord Kennaquhair (15
to 1), who is also aged; he was doing his
best work at the end, but finished five or
six lengths behind Bawn-na-Glas, who wins
every 18 months or so. Nut Cup hit the
front early, but was done with at the home
turn ,and could not get a place, Autumn
Leaf (5 to 1), who had run him down, hang-
ing on long enough to defeat the fast-finish-
ing New King (7 to 2) and the Kogarah-
trained Sir Morion (8 to 1). Autumn Leaf,
a good stamp of a brown gelding by Magpie
—Redleaf, carries the colors of W. H. Mac-
kay, not often seen in Sydney since Beau-
ford’s day. He is a six-year-old, but hasn’t
done much racing.
=!: * * *
For Canterbury Park: —
Flying Handicap: Fordlight or High Dis-
dain ; next, N.E.F.
Canterbury Handicap: Greenbird; next,
Flinders,
Ilighweiglit Handicap : Fordlight or Popo-
naise ; next, Chieftain.
C'ampsie Handicap: Servius; next, Lord
Kennaquhair.
“Eagle Farm”: Recently the Queensland
Turf Club gave its three stipendiary
stewards notice and invited new applications,
the three being eligible. One, J. D. Gleeson,
got back. The new chairman is A. P. Wil-
son, at present chairman of the M.L. Racing
Conference stewards. The other member is
S. P. Brown, a stipendiary from the North
Queensland Racing Association.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The tote got a great advertise-
ment at Ascot, Melbourne, when backers of
Codellus, winner of the River Handicap,
were paid £l2B 2s. 6d. for ss. 5.0.; the
place div. was £l3 4s. The price in the
ring was 33 to 1. The previous best for
Victoria was £37 7s. 6d. for a win and
£6 2s. for a place, paid on Mystery Ship,
winner of the Mentone Purse last June.
The machine has drawn thousands of cus-
tomers from McShortodds, and a doubles
tote would draw T thousands more.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Mitt Shover”: George Cook, who must
be the most battered bruiser in existence,
has taken aether hiding in London. His
opponent was McCorkindale, and the South
African won in 10 rounds, a bad cut over
the eye necessitating Cook’s withdrawal.
On this form McCorkindale hasn’t much of
a chance against Stribling, whom he has
contracted to meet in Africa.
if * sje $
Lurich has been beaten at last, hut defeat
won’t affect his capacity to draw the multi-
tude to Leichhardt. Walter Browning got
a decision over the Russian, showing
superior speed. A Boston crab made Lurich
submit to the first fall in the fourth round.
Browning himself surrendered to a body-
scissors in the sixth. The crowd expected
that a draw would be declared; and so did
Lurich, who looked like blubbering with dis-
appointment. They are grappling again
next Saturday night.
Ins and Outs
The opening match of the English crick-
eters at Perth was marred by rain, w l
prevented play on the second day. " 1 ” 1 “ ”
the toss on Friday, the tourists ended tne
day with 8 for 334. Pataudi batted in rare
style for 166, Sutcliffe (54) and •fa.TOJne
(38) also shaping well. Fast-bowler Ha -
combe had the best bowling figures tor W es-
tralia, 3 for 48.
* $ =!■- *
“Blah”: The present English cricket team
will probably go down to history as having
inspired more fatuous blither in the bellow
press than any of its predecessors. its
arrival at Perth was followed by rapturous
references to the change in Jardine s psy-
chology since his last visit. Then lie was
described as a sort of cricketing Dean Inge,
gloomy, aloof, disdainful. He returned to
these shores bubbling affability itself, throw-
ing himself into the arms of every pressman
who approached him. At least, that was
the impression conveyed; but. it didn’t last
long. He has given great offence, at least
in one quarter, by returning an icy negative
to a cool suggestion that he should pick
his team against the Westralians in time
to let the Sydney afternoon papers have it
on Thursday.
“Aunt Sally”: The selectors for the Eng-
lish team are Warner, Jardine and Sutcliffe;
two amateurs and a professional. It is a
new departure on tliis side, though here, as
in England, the services of Hobbs have been
co-opted on occasion.
ij: * * #
“Five Ways”: Jack Govan, the 17-year-
old Brisbane Grammar School bowler, put
up a great sequence last week. For a met-
ropolitan XI against the pick of the
country teams he took 8 for 20 and 8 for
30. In a trial match to aid the selectors of the
Queensland XI against Victoria he got 5
for 83 in an innings of 173, of which Archie
Jackson made 155. The youngster has been
included in the State team; Jackson is not
yet qualified to play for Queensland.
(Continued on next page.)
Young McGrath proved no match for
Crawford in the singles at Strathfield. Craw-
ford outgeneralled and outplayed the young-
ster, 6-0, 6-1.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: According to a returned
traveller, the Japanese are keen on a visit
from an Australian Rugby Union side.
Japanese form has improved since we had
a team from Nippon in Sydney some years
ago, and the game has a hig following,
crowds of 25,000 being no uncommon thing
at a match. There are now 400 R.U. clubs
in the country, and last year the represen-
tative side towelled up a Canadian team
that toured Cherry-blossom Land. As we saw
them here, the Japanese players were nippy
and willing, with plenty of pace ; but they
laced weight for the rucks and height for
the lineouts.
* * * *
_ “Blue Chalk”: Most of the professional
billiard players are antagonistic to the new
“baulkline” rule, and it is unlikely that the
English authorities will continue with it
after the New Year. Walter Lindrum com-
plains that it ruins the science of the game
and compels him to think slowly, whereas
he usually visualises his break hundreds
ahead. Walter seems to' be adapting himself
to the rule fairly well, though he has done
nothing sensational yet. McConaehy is the
only player so far to top four figures under
the innovation. His tally was 1135.
* * * *
“Blade”: Australian rowing is awakening
again. Queensland has notified that the next
race for the Kings Cu.p will be held on the
Hamilton reach of the Brisbane River on
May 6, Wide Bay tried to have the race
rowed on the Mary River at Maryborough,
but without success. The Victorian Rowing
Association has decided to appoint two
selectors for the King’s Cup eight after
the Victorian champion eights in March. And
N. S. Wales has named a single selector
B. S. Williams, of Haberfield.


vX:
mx
m
YStVS.
&
M¥ il
WB6BBm
m
■
V. *v
=•«&
l.
a*
\o
, \JOVJ
N
*V°
».*>*
A."
,oV»
AVf
o sV'>e\
\9^
e ae^ e
\s
co s ~. \V\°'
o'
fsd
“Yes, Jean! You can learn to drive
our new Vauxhall just as soon as
you like!”
“Thanks, dad—but what made you
change your mind so suddenly?”
“This 1933 Vauxhall is so very simple to
drive! You see, Jean, this car has a Silent-
Second gear and Synchro-Mesh Transmission.
You simply push the gear lever through for
a perfect, noiseless change every time and
at any speed! You’ll learn to drive in less
than no time!”
This 1933 Vauxhall is built in England spe-
cially for Australia. Powered with a 26-h.p.
(R.A.C. rating) motor which develops 61 h.p.
It has six cylinders—no more, no less. With
more you sacrifice economy, with less you
sacrifice smoothness. Coachwork by Holden.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
Consult your:
LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
Ins and Outs
“Ibn el Issar”: Iftikar Ali,. Nawab of
Pataudi, has already given promise of tinn-
ing out the best batsman m the Hnglishi
eleven now in Australia. A Moslem, lie
springs from Afghan stock, the family benn,
of saintly standing. His province is a small
one in the Punjab, and was granted to one
of his forebears in 1803 by the Hast India
Company at the instance of Sir John Hake
for services rendered the English general in
the Mahratta war. The Nawab was born
in 1910, and after being grounded m
cricket at Lahore by M. G. Slater, a
master in the famous school there, he. went
to Oxford at 17. Frank Woolley earned on
the work of coaching the young Indian, and
by all accounts has made a champion job
of it, as they say in Lancashire.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The obsession of many cricket
followers with the Bradman-Board of Con-
trol press propaganda has caused them to
overlook the fact that Australian cricket
may suffer a loss more serious than the
banning of the N.S.W. batsman would be.
When Grimmett hurt his ankle it, was
hinted in The Bulletin that the injury
was a severe one. So far, the ankle has not
responded to treatment, and the South Aus-
tralian may not figure for his State against
the Englishmen on November 4. His absence
from the Test would be a real disaster to
the Australian side.
* $ *
“Hotham” : Blackie is to figure with the
almost equally venerable Ironmonger in the
Vic. eleven t 0 play Queensland at Brisbane.
Fifty last April, Blackie broke his hand
in one of the matches against the Smith
Africans, and played no more that season.
This year he has been practising steadily.
The Victorian has a unique record in that
he did not figure in a Test match until he was
46 —against Chapman’s team four years ago.
Racquet and Bawl
“Ivooyong” : The burning question in Aus-
tralian tennis circles, is whether the visit
of the Americans will in a profit.
Expenses arc estimated at £3500, but por-
tions of this will; be defrayed by the Hono-
lulu and M.L. Associations. The Fifpickmen
came here on 'a guarantee of £4500, yet the
tour showed a clear credit of £3400. Almost
as much was cleaned up from the Japanese
tour. Considering the calibre of the Ameri-
cans, probably the most formidable combina-
tion playing tennis to-day, there should be
a record gate, giving the hard times in.
sjc * ❖
“Milton”: On the Queensland ranking list
Moon is placed first tliis year and Cummings
second. Mrs. Moleswortli, like Cummings,
lias been dropped to second place, being sup-
planted by Mrs. Westmacott, whom, south-
erners will remember as the mercurial Dol
Hood. Queensland will probably have a
State match against the Americans as well
as the first Test. If the visitors consent, it
will be played on November 23.
“Top Spin”: Norman Brookes, recently
returned to Australia, is critical of Wallis
Myers’s placing of Crawford at the bottom
of his list of the world’s ten best tennis-
players (B. 21/9/’32). On Wimbledon dis-
plays Brookes thinks his fellow-Australian
should be rated at least fourth, and certainly
ahead of Borotra. Yet it cannot be denied
that on important occasions in topnotcli
company Crawford fails to rise to the occa-
sion. He has never done 'anything to equal
the feat of the veteran Borotra in the Davis
Cup challenge round in Paris.
“Plotliam” : Official estimates of attendances
at the matches against the Americans arc
based on the holding capacity of the grounds.
Brisbane’s tally is a modest 4000; Sydney’s
is 9340. Melbourne’s courts at Ivooyong
are expected td hold 7064; Adelaide can
accommodate 3200, Perth 2100, Hobart 2000.
On a field day at Wimbledon the crowd may
be as high as 25,000; at Forest Hills the
record is about 15,000. In Paris the daily
crowd for the Davis Cup challenge round
was 12,000, but the price of seats for one
day ranged from £3 downwards.
“Iconoclast” : Haven’t the people of Syd-
ney any originality? I note that the enter-
tainment programme for our American
tennis visitors includes the inevitable trip
down the Harbor, I say, leave ’em to their
own devices. The last thing anyone em-
barked on a hard athletic tour desires is
entertaining which tires him out by night
and bores him stiff by day. That is
one reason why overseas visitors prefer Mel-
bourne to Sydney. No one ever wants them
to take a trip on the Yarra.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: A Californian chemist
has devised a method of scenting golf balls
with a substance which attracts white but-
terflies. When a ball is lost these flock to
it, and the pill is easily located. What
happens when the butterflies are out of
season is not stated. It seems a lot of
trouble for little result. On many Aus-
tralian courses black crows play the part
taken by the white butterflies, and the balls
have not to be scented either. There is cer-
tVinly the drawback that the sooty brute
generally gets away with the ball, but as a
locater he is on his own,
* * *
“Cleveland”: The North Queensland ama-
teur championship, played at Townsville,
was won by J. H. K. Stewart for the third
year in succession, and Stewart now owns
the Coyle Cup. The foursomes champion-
ship was won by a Cairns pair, Warren and
Gummow. Townsville was probably the first
town in Queensland to take golf to its
bosom. It was long before Brisbane in that
respect, though Charters Towers periodi-
cally puts forward a nebulous claim to have
been the pioneer.
* * sj: *
“Bungaree”: The most important Vic.
golfing event outside Melbourne is the Bal-
larat open championship. This year’s entry
was particularly strong, but the visitors
from Melbourne found their master in P. G.
Gleeson, a youngster who is the local club
champion. He won with a card of 148 for
the .two. rounds, Edgar (151) being second
and Whittou (152) third. Edgar is a former
Vic. champion and Ivo Whitton and Russell,
who was well out of it, have both won the
Australian title, in addition to many other
famous tourneys. The handicap went to
another local lad in W. J. Cornell, son of
the president of the Ballarat club. He
finished fourth for the title event, a stroke
behind Whitton.
% $ * *
“Hoylakc” : The modern athlete is a very
touchy person, as recent happenings in the
cricket aud tennis world have shown us.
Cotton receptly won the “News of the
World” £lOOO golf tourney in England, but
the sympathies of the crowd were with his
opponent, Perry, and they evidently showed
it. Consequently Cotton has shaken the soil
of Britain off his shoes, and has taken a job
as professional with the Brussels golf club,
which has its course on the historic spot
where the Belgians defeated Napoleon —
Waterloo. Cotton will take part in all the
big British tournaments, but his foreign
residence will cut him out of the Ryder Cup
matches with America. As Britain rarely
wins one of these annual tourneys, that
doesn’t seem to matter much.
* « *
“Brassey” : The latest American addition
to the amenities of golf is a rangefinder to
enable players to instantly determine the
distance to the hole. What help it is to a
player to know whether he has to play a
shot of 98 or 100 yards, it is difficult to
see. Of course, if golfers could be fitted with
a scale which, when set, would enable them
to play the shot automatically to the dis-
tance indicated in the rangefinder, all would
be well. But, except in the case of a few
super golfers, we have not arrived at that
stage yet.
Car and Cycle
“I-lotham”: Melbourne has acquired all-
ot her motordrome—on the old Richmond race-
course, where once the ponies and the trots
held high revel. The motor track is half a
mile in circumference and 66ft. wide. The
Light Car Club and the Autocycle Union will
combine in staging events every Saturday,
special arrangements having been made for
dirt-track riders.
“Formula”: Something new is announced
by Professor Low, of Britain —a car engine
that has no valves and no cranks. Low
discovered a method whereby combustible
gas can be fed into a tube so fast that, when
ignited, the flame will not. be able to travel
back to the source of gas supply. If this
gas is led into a cylinder through small,
cooled perforations and ignited, the flame
will not pass back through the perforations
and very little of the explosive force will
be wasted. The two-stroke cycle is utilised,
and eccentrics on the crankshaft replace
cranks. Exhaust is by open ports in the
cylinder walls, these being uncovered by the
piston on its downward journey.
* * ■■■?■ *
“Kick Starter”: At a venture most people
asked which nation utilises the greatest
number of motor-cycles would name Britain.
As a matter of fact, Germany tops the list,
thanks chiefly to specialisation in utility
lightweights, which are tax-free. The Ger-
man tally for 1931 was 792,075 machines.
England was second with 626,649; France
had 400,000, the U.S.A. 110,915, Italy 93,098
and Australia 78,210.
“Cash Amateur”: Duncan Gray is to
move from Goulburn to Sydney, having got
a job with a Sydney cycle firm. Professional
promoters would snap him up if they could,
but the Olympic champion is, of course,
under contract to remain an amateur for
two years after, his return to Australia. The
rider with whom he went to Amsterdam
thought this was a mere formality, and re-
pudiated it. To his infinite astonishment,
the young gentleman was suspended from
amateur aud professional cycling for two
years.
$ i!'
“Sprocket”: There arc about as many
world’s cycling championships as there are
car records. At Rome the “world’s” pro-
fessional sprint championship was won by
a Belgian rider, Scherens, who beat Lucicn
Michard, of France. The sprint for ama-
teurs went to Richter, of Germany; no
British competitor got near a place in either
event. The meeting was held on a new
track built at Government expense, and the
Italian cycling authorities spent 300,000 lire
in addition. Takings were only 150,000 lire.
Miscellaneous
••Iluon”: For years Tas. Rowing Associa-
tion sent a club crew to represent it in
the race for the King’s Cup. Last year a
composite crew was tried, with no luck, aud
there is to be a reversion to the club sys-
tem for the affair in Brisbane. Other States
which have tried club crews are N. S. Wales,
South Aus. and Queensland. On the other
hand, Victoria, holders of the Cup, and
Westralia have always boated composite
crews, and both have remarkable records.
=l= * * *
“Spinnaker”: N.S.W. sailing enthusiasts •
are wondering what is up with the game on
Port Jackson. There was a time when Ma
could count on winning one or other of the
three important sections, the eighteens, six-
teens and twelves. Of late Queensland boat-
men have dominated the situation, parti-
cularly in the 16ft.-skiff class; last season
they rubbed it in by beating Ma in all three
classes. This year’s 16ft. championship, by
the way, is to be sailed on the Swan.
Queensland may not defend the title, and
N.S.W. will send only one boat; this will
cost at least £l5O. Test races will be held
on November 26-27. Each club has been
asked to nominate three boats, paying a fee
of £10; two extra boats can be nominated for
another fiver, fees to go towards the ex-
penses of the chosen boat and crew. As the
18 and 12 events will be held this season
on Port Jackson, Ma hopes to get a bit of
her own back, especially as the Queensland
entry is not likely to be large.
* * * *
“Third Base": The retirement of Babe
Ruth from active participation in baseball
should save New York Yankees, the club
he played for, quite a lot of money. Babe,
accounted the greatest batsman baseball has
evolved, has for years past been drawing
£15,000 a year in salary alone. A weak hear*
has put him out of the active field, but as
he has drawn as much again for film and
other rights, he is not likely to finish up as
so many other professional athletes have
done when their powers waned.


Arrange to stop-over at Lake
Louise on your way to England
To ENGLAND via CANADA
and beautiful
Lake Louise
NATURE'S scenic masterpiece
right in the heart of the Rockies
—headquarters of a hundred
thrilling sights and Alpine
pleasures riding swimming
in a warm sheltered pool—tennis
—climbing—dancing to wonder-
ful music in the Chateau's famous ball-
room. City comforts, service and cuisine
at this great C.P.R. mountain hotel.
Write or call for details and booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC, 32/7
247 George Street, Sydney.
Canadian Pacific
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS-STEAMERS -HOTELS
f
THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Austialian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ ions the very best medium, for that teas the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact.
( Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
&he
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT . D. FISHER, 7lf Pitt Street, Sydney — Bsoo7.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
You can’t say things aren’t divided evenly.
Melbourne is having a Cup and Sydney a
General Synod. A General Synod is a kind
of ’busman’s holiday for bishops and arch-
bishops. Here all the clever old dears gather
from all the corners of Australia and New
Guinea, and, instead of having a welter of
city life (which, after all, they arc entitled
to once in a way), they meet daily in the
Chapter House of St. Andrew’s and discuss
morals and marriage and cathedrals and lot-
teries. This Letter is all for bishops: it
finds them much more human than curates.
They seem to exude the cream of human
kindness —it probably comes from deep
knowledge of the skim milk that life mostly
rations out to their fellow-mortals.
Now that Edgar Wallace is dead, who is
there to elucidate the mystery of the van-
ished, shovel hat? What have the bishops
done with it? One knows from such an
accurate authority as Gilbert that this mil-
linery went with the apron and the gaiters:
“Bishops in their shovel hats were plentiful
as tabby cats.” Perhaps the growing doubts
of a Hell of fire and brimstone robbed it of
its emblematic signification. Anyway, it
simply was not at the garden party given by
the Warden and Fellows of St. Paul’s within
the University.
Garden parties and lunches seem to b<
the favorite entertainment offered to the
clergy in bulk, and it is time a few sumptu-
ous dinner parties and theatres were slipped
in. But the garden party at St. Paul’s was
at least a change, for the rain fell and the
thunder took the pulpit of Heaven, and
the affair resolved itself into a verandah
crush and a friendly mooch around the
library and the common rooms. All the
Arches, the Governor, Mayoress Walder and
the Fellows of the College partook of tea
in the , Fellows’ common room, where the
Warden and Mrs. Garnsey did the honors.
Their table was red roses and gumtips, and
Joan Garnsey added red and green stripes
and a green straw hat. AVitli a proper
sense of fitness, Miss Bishop had been en-
gaged for the catering. Mrs. Crick, wife
of his Grace of Ballarat, looked effective
in white flowered crepe (she and her Bishop
are the guests of Sir Hugh Poynter). Hunts-
man greens were worn by Archgaiters
AA r right’s lady; and there were shepherds
(nearly all ivith shepherdesses) from Ben-
digo and Bunbury, from Ivalgoorlie and Car-
pentaria, from all the pasturages north and
south and east and west. In the common
room, where Church and Savant trod upon
each other’s heels, the Gospel of St. Matthew
in Scotch and the Book of Psalms in Low-
land Scotch were two of the College trea-
sures that excited interest.
But what a fine-looking lot they are, by
and large, from the Primate to the last, least
bishop, of them all! (That last, least bishop
would be Kirkby, the Coadjutor of Sydney,
dear old D’Arcy Irvine’s lately-appointed suc :
cessor. But assistant bishops have no
status in the great governing body ; a diocese
can’t get two voices that easy way.) Here
is Dr. 'Crick, of Ballarat, and one time of
Rockhdmpton, who looks six-feet-two and
the athlete lie is. (He is. tlie prodigy, though
he’d hate to be called anything of the sort,
who was Dean of Clare College at Cam-
bridge when he' was 26.) They greatly miss
Bishop Long, of Bathurst, whose mantle as
leader of the convention that framed the
new Constitution of the Church in Australia
has fallen on Hart, of Wangaratta; they
were both Melbourne-trained men. One tiling:
the men who come to these meetings can
always be sure of meeting new brains to rub
against. Bishop Nutter Thomas (to dis-
tinguish him from liis brother and neighbor
Richard, of AA r illochra) is the patriarch, and
he has worn the apron in Adelaide for no
more than 26 years—three years more than
his Grace the Primate has ruled in Sydney.
There were more men than women at the
opening of the Norman Lindsay show, and
that’s as remarkable a thing these days as
the Arabian Nights warmth of the water-
colors and the virility of the black-and-
whites. President of the Society of Artists
Syd Smith wound a horn not only to the
glory of Norman’s achievemeiit but to liis
capacity for hard work. Norman, as lean
as his own Captain Bobadil, stood near by
in a light grey suit —a bit like quicksilver.
The Lindsays have a passion for grey suit-
ings. Norman’s brother Percy, blonde, small
and alert, was in grey; Percy’s son Peter,
small, gilt-haired and bursting with ideas,
was in grey. Syd Smith, possibly as a com-
pliment to the artist clan, was also in grey.
He also was blonde, but that was not a
Lindsay influence.
Among the applauders of the opening
speech were P. R. Stephensen, Australia’s
new publisher-to-be, and Dr. Mackaness and
his attractive wife. Mrs. Tom Rolin, sur-
geon John McKelvey’s wife and Mrs. Jimmy
McCarthy, three good-lookers, were as much
gazed on as the pictures. Mrs. Rolin’s effective
black-and-white scheme _ was carried, out in
black voile with tiny white spots. Artist Dora
Jarrett’s blue hat was as deep in tone as one
of Norman’s backgrounds ; Edith Prior walked
with Mrs. Hambridge and her sunny-haired
Marjorie, soon to return to London and the
pursuit of music. Oswald Cheeke. W. G.
Layton, artist D. H. Souter and Bill Moore
tracked beauty around the walls. Mrs. J.
Moreing brought her look of early-morning
freshness to the hot afternoon, and Mrs.
William Macleod, in cigar-brown crepe,
Mrs. Victor Mann, Eirene Mort, Ernest
Wunderlich and daughter Margot, Violet
Roche and Mrs. Le Maistre Walker, Helen
Souter, artist Ted Scorfield and his pretty
little wife and Mrs. F. Aronson were other
well-knowns of a crowded afternoon.
While Mrs. David Maughan, the president
of the Australian Women’s Guild of Empire,
was in London, Mrs. Horace Sheller was
her deputy. So last week Mrs. Maughan,
now back at the helm, gave a party to say
thank you to Mrs. Sheller, and all the dele-
gates of the guild were bidden. Mrs.
Sheller, who was very slim and clean-cut in
black chiffons and a wide black hat, was
given masses of lilac and red roses, and she
made a speech as rousing as a tocsin call.
After tea, which Joan Maughan, in tea-rose
pink raiment, helped mother dispense, every-
body went out on a lawn that clings to a
hillside above Double Bay, and looked into
the spring sunset. Mrs. Tom Walsh, the
founder of the guild, was one of the much-
greeted.
This is a Dayne photograph of Mrs. E. M.
Baker, wife of the headmaster of The King’s
School, Parra-
ramatta. At
the end of the
1932 school
year, the rev-
erend gentle-
man is retir-
ing, and he
and his wife
are returning
to England.
During the
y ears Mrs.
Baker has re-
sided at King’s
she has taken
a deep' inter-
est in the
school chapel,
set practically
in the midst
of her flower
garden. Fur-
nishing th e
chapel with
fine linens has been her hobby, and she has
gradually built up a store of altar-cloths,
fair linen .sets for the communion vessels
and christening linens, all beautifully sewn
and embroidered by her own hands. She has
always taken personal charge of the laun-
dering of these things and kept them under
her own supervision; and now that she is
leaving she is having a rare wooden chest
made, to stand in the vestry, where the
linens will be stored. She is at present
working on a very handsome altar-cloth of
white Irish linen, with an emblematic design
of her own at each end and encircling the
letters “1.H.5.,” and this she expects to com-
plete before her departure. Mrs. Baker is
a clever crochet worker, and is able to copy
intricate designs and read at the same time!
King’s chapel is becoming a storehouse of
treasured brass, stone and linen, and with
its rich interior is destined to become one
of our finest ecclesiastical possessions.
There must have been .enough roses to
girdle Australia at last week’s Flower
Festival. There were banks of roses below
the stage; there were battalions of them on
long tables down the middle of the hall,
very erect and in close formation, com-
panies of petalled troubadours marching
into battle. Crimson and gold, white and
Pink, they flung a thick tapestry of color
and scent about the room, and long before
Mayoress Walder had declared the Festival
open the Town Hall was drunk with the
wine distilled by the languishing petals.
You looked up expecting a nightingale to
burst into song amid the rafters.
Great sprays of lilac called with a thous-
and memories to those of colder lands, and
pansies and orchids, glowing tulips (some
of them burgundy red), iris and giant-
trumpeted hippeastrums were heaped in
beauty of pensiveness or pride. This flower
wealth was, of course, a good deal due to
the fact that the Horticultural Society was
holding its show in conjunction with the
money-raiser for the Industrial Blind Insti-
tute, and garden-lovers as far away as
Albury had sent, prize blooms to help the
display.
There wasn’t an artificial flower to be
seen. Even Fred Searl’s cherry tree got
its effect from having carnations thickly
wired on to its branches. Beneath the
boughs stood a lady, every bit of her spread-
ing frock made of real flowers. There were
several of these flower ladies, but none other
so tall. One of the little sisters had a
frock of pansies. A golden sunshade w T as
set about with clusters of the new molten
gold nasturtiums. Mary, Mary, Quite Con-
trary was busy with her watering-can.
There were aeroplanes, and ships, and
baskets, and littlje cottage gardens, and
steamers, complete with funnels ; there was
even a little sofa with a mat spread, before
it, cunningly woven of flowers. But the blue-
bird of happiness looked a bit moulty by
the second day.
The miniature gardens were a tremendous
lure. Lady Game’s had a gilded fish on a
pedestal as its centrepiece, and around this
ran a tiled path banked with pink roses,
blue iris, lilac and other heady blooms, while
a background Of lattice was covered in gold
and green creeper. The fish, which' is the
property of Miller Stokes, originally came
from a Japanese temple. Peggy Mclntyre,
of the Women’s. College, who is studying
landscape-gardening, gave the vice-reine a
hand. Dame Eadit'h Walker’s rockery with
its flowering cactus was one of the vestibule
treasures ; so was the Fairfax lady’s Alpine
garden, blue with gentian. Doreen Hordern
and former town-clerk Layton were respon-
sible for a fragrant corner where lilac and
roses glowed. Mary Mein’s miniature
garden was deservedly a prize-winner. One
little house fronted by a garden (real plants
here), with garden seats, a gravel drive on
which a car waited and an electric switch
to light tlie whole, was the biggest draw
among the raffles. But it was in the base-
ment the real business was done.
While the Bishops were biting off large
segments of dogma around in the Chapter
House, their wives were busied with church
matters, too. The Women’s Auxiliary of
the Australian Board of Missions had taken
the opportunity of holding an all-day con-
ference at whidh almost every diocese of
the Continent might be represented. Arch-
bishop Wright’s lady was a capable presi-
dent, and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax poured words
of welcome like cream and honey for the
visitors. Naturally, the work on the mis-
sion fields was discussed in all its bearings ;
but, oh dear! after listening to many
speeches bearing on what is expected of the
lady-missionary, this Letter decided that only
a composite Caesar’s wife and Florence
Nightingale could fill the job. The wife of the
Melbourne Arch spoke with directness and
commonsense, and Mrs. Nutter Thomas, of
Adelaide, added her grain of wisdom. Other
wives in the purple were present in full
strength, and their unruffled brows and con-
tented gaze spoke volumes for the health-
giving properties of a cathedral life.
Bonita Appleton brings new blood to
the Pickwick
Theatre Group.
She was the
young Ameri-
can heroine in
its last produc-
tion —E lmer
Rice’s quick
comedy, “See
Naples and
Die.” Bonita
is a Sydney
girl who
gained her
stage ex-
peri ence in
America—s h e
appeared in
two Broadway
p r o d u c tions
and had minor
parts in some
Holly w ood-
made pictures.
Photo, from
Rene Pardon’s studio.
Week-end pilgrimages to beautiful suburban
gardens whose owners throw them open to
the public in the interests of various chari-
ties are growing in popularity. Last Satur-
day and Sunday four green and glowing
gardens in Burns-road, Wahroonga. were
thrown wide tor the benefit of the Kinder-
gartens. Perhaps the finest of these was
that of Sidney Snow, with its long drive
between chains of ivy and most attractive
borders of yellow and purple violas. Here
tea was served.
On the Saturday mother and one of the
girls from an inner suburb were obviously
overawed by the magnificence of the sur-
roundings and the utter orderliness of every-
thing. Then in the courtyard, hanging from
a line, they spied a procession of tea and
kitchen towels. That half-thawed them,
and the next moment the operation was com-
pleted. “And look, mother,”, exclaimed
daughter—“one of them has holes in it .
That little touch made them kin. After all,
this establishment was human, too.
With the bustle and the black habiliments
of Mrs. Alving, Sybil Thorndike laid aside
tragedy after the matinee of “Ghosts” and
went helter-skelter into the fun of “Madame
Plays Nap.” Youth and yellow brocade were
her trappings, and light of foot and heart she
pranced, pirouetted, made play with a length
of diaphanous green scarf and a train that
fell from the waist of her Empire frock and
stretched for yards, a glittersome thing of
gold and rose tissue. Sometimes this chuckled
and sparkled like the stored laughter of
years; sometimes, it swept around her feet
in a coil as sophisticated as Lilith's ser-
pent. It’s worth a visit to the Royal to see
what emotions a really clever woman can
express with such everyday things as a scarf
and a trailing gown.
You felt indeed that Ireland had some
claim to her title of Land of_ the Saints
when you heard Archbishop Kelly tell of
his experiences at the Eucharistic Confer-
ence in Dublin. Quickly they took the
measure of this kindly priest from a kindly
land and chose him to sing the Children’s
Mass, at which no fewer than 100,000 Irish
kiddies were present. His clear, simple words
sketched that scene very vividly the other
afternoon when he was the guest of the
Catholic Women’s Association. Mrs. John
Barlow, the president, welcomed his Grace,
and Irish airs were played by the Golden
Grove orchestra.
Once again the Clerical Women War
Workers arc acknowledging the debt they in-
curred in girlhood to the men who went to
fignt the long fight. Once a year they make
a public appeal to help them carry on the
work which, begun long ago so unobtrusively,
has never faltered. Their main work is
helping to cheer the sick soldiers in the
Prince of Wales Hospital. They arrange
entertainments for the men throughout the
year, and at Christmas there’s an entertain-
ment tied up with ribbons, as it were. Hence
a modest request now and then for help. In
response St. James’s Hall was crowded when
the Vagabonds staged “All the King’s
Horses,” a comedy which the company
played with sparkle; the work of Billy Jago
and Ruby Coxhead calls for special mention,
but it was just currying favor with Mr.
Whiddon to give him the first prize in the
programme “competition” and allot one of
the other prizes to a member of his staff!
Bondi is to be the headquarters of our
newest club, the Lido. Its home is to be a
low, rambling cream house with:Mire shutters,
looking out over the tumbling blue of the
Pacific. Naturally bathing is to be one of
the club’s specialties, and a rock-bathing
pool at the bottom of the garden is lit with
electrics. Meals can be taken on verandahs,
in the open air or indoors; and the dressing-
rooms for the members are the last word
in equipment. Membership will be limited
to 250, and Cup Night will see the opening.
Bananaland bits:—
Mrs. John Brownlee had a farewell party in Rowe's
before leaving Brisbane'- Rose and beige with a
Pandean straw hat was worn by (he hostess. The
Mayoress, Mesdames Wilson, Chapman, Collins, A. E.
Moore and Spencer Browne, and Victoria Blakey
were amongst the guests.
At Eagle Farm races the Blair lady was in
black with an emerald green collar and a black and
ecru hat; Mrs. A. J. Crowther (Townsville) wore
ivory georgette with a pattern of dark and light
blues; Mrs. A. H. Whittingliam was in sky-blue;
Mrs. R. W. Dowling favored apple green ; Mrs. Alan
Jeffray chose blue; Mrs. Jack Chesline’s black was
patterned in red and white; Mrs. H. Bonney, who
received many congratulations on her recent flight,
was in rust-red and a brown cloche; Amy Reid
(Tenterfield), another airwoman, wore blue and
rose, with a pink hemp straw; Peggy Dods had a
beige hat with her French blue ; brown was picked
by smart frocker Mrs. Stanley Chapman.
At St. Thomas’s, Toowong, William Raff married
Grace Mavis Weatherlake. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in white satin with Brussels
lace veil. Joyce Weatherlake ’maided in apple green
with a halo of pink carnations. The feasting was
in Rowe’s banqueting hall.
Renee, daughter of the J. S. Shaws, Upper Pad-
dington, is engaged to Alex. Laidlaw, son of Mis. F.
Laidlaw, Eagle Junction.
Mervyn Flitcroft took Fauna Hensler to wife in
St. Andrew’s/ South Brisbane. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in ivory bridal satin
and pale pink tulle veil. Isabel Carey and Leslie
Woods ’maided in powder blue. The feast was
spread at the home of the bride’s sister, Mrs.
Summers, of Yeronga, and the ’moon rose at South-
port.
Phyllis M. Buckland and Joseph Grayson Scott,
of Melbourne, are to be married in November.
Some good work for a good cause stands to the
credit of Mesdames W. N. Robertson and S. F.
McDonald, who, interviewing the managers of
Brisbane picture theatres, found them willing to give
the proceeds of their shows for a day towards the
Crippled Children’s Fund. Already £2115 has been
collected.


Amusements.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUTUMN CROCUS.
How to Fit Yourself
for Life’s Fight
It is up to you to say whether you
will be nervous, weak, sickly, or whe-
ther you shall glow with vitality and
strength. It is now possible to pro-
long your life and rule your health just
as you govern your actions. You can
throw off the shackles of advancing age
—step back into youth—become virile,
vigorous. You can rekindle your old
energies, put more vim into your work
and play, and make every organ of your
body act as Nature intended.
Modern methods of eating, lack of
exercise cause weakness and flabbiness
of the abdominal organs. Particles of
decaying food waste are not completely
evacuated. This waste encrusts and
accumulates in the creases of the in-
testine, and harbors disease-breeding
germs, which enter the system and pol-
lute the blood. Result is dreaded self-
poisoning ( autoxima ), from which nine
out of ten suffer —caused by hidden and
unsuspected constipation. This self-
poisoning is the origin of constipation,
headaches, indigestion, gas in stomach,
and bowels, catarrh, weakness, rheu-
matism, neuritis, eczema, pimples, etc.,
and hosts of other ailments.
You and practically everyone else is
more or less in the grip of autoxima.
But you can change this by washing
aw;ay the germ-laden mass with
COLOSEPTIC. It promptly rids you
of self-poisoning. Gently, without
griping, COLOSEPTIC loosens and dis-
solves off the encrusted waste, and then
passes it smoothly out of the body. It
rids the system of all circulatory im-
purities through the other outlets pro-
vided for that purpose—the kidneys—
pores of the skin—and respiratory ap-
paratus. You can get COLOSEPTIC
in regular full-size jars, from all chem-
ists. Send 1/- stamps or postal note
to COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., Dept.
G 4, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney,
for a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC, and the interesting
book “Autoxima,”
BROKEN HILL MINES.
The crosscut at 2150 ft. from the new shaft
in the North Broken Hill mine is now about
50ft. into the lode, in rich ore. This is 300 ft.
below the bottom level hitherto worked, and
looks like doubling the visible ore reserves,
already calculated at several million tons.
This means, of course, that Broken Hill city
will flourish till the young have become old. And
Broken Hill’s celebrated newspaper, “The Barrier
Miner,” looks forward to new generations of
readers.
HOUSEHOLD PACES
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.*
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
•• Etc. Etc. Etc. ii
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6!
RHEUMATISM
injures Heart, Cripples Body,
Cuts Years Off Life
End those torturing back, limb, joint and
muscular pains to-day. No need to suffer the
crippling pain of rheumatism, lumbago,
sciatica or backache when you can get quick,
harmless, effective relief from Harrison’s rills,
the modern antiseptic remedy of a London
doctor. Harrison’s Pills banish uric acid—
the origin of what is probably the most acute
misery afflicting men and women to-day. Don’t
go on, racked with pain and risking being
crippled by a trouble that can injure your
heart, age you by twenty years and make life
generally unbearable. Relief is to be had.
Act at once. Harrison’s Pills drive out the
uric acid, soothe away dread inflammation,
end the danger, and restore the kidneys and
bladder to normal. Hundreds of one-time
sufferers have written their grateful thanks
after taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
will help you, too, or the trial will cost you
nothing. Get a package of Harrison’s Pills
from the nearest chemist or store; three in-
expensive sizes. Take as directed, and it you
don’t get the complete, worthwhile relief you
seek —you can have your money back!
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Governor-General went to Moonee
V alley for the Cup meeting, which was
blessed by sunshine. Purple and yellow
blossoms trailed over the boxes that trimmed
the committee members’ enclosure, and there
were beautiful roses* Besides the G.-G., Lieut.-
Governor Irvine partook of the club’s hos-
pitality, also the Irvine lady, whose black
suit had a beige-colored vest. A matching
Hower rested on the brim of her largish
black straw hat. Rear-Admiral G. F. Hyde,
Captain F. C. Bradley, of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, and knights Samuel Hordern and
Frank Gavan Duffy were at the v-r. table.
Caution marked the dressing. Fur coats
were laid aside, but only to give place to
tailored suits and ensembles. As many of
these were in gay blues, greens and reds,
and white hats were popular, the scene was
anything but sombre. Eye-veils dangled from
many a close-fitting hat or swathed toque,
and almost every woman wore a coat-posy
of real flowers, lilies of the valley, pansies
and roses being in favor.
Mrs. Alan Currie was there in a black
cloth suit, silver fox fur and a fine white
straw hat. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, too,
favored the magpie blend in her attire. Mrs.
A. E. Kimpton was in black; likewise Mrs.
Charles Wenman, who had white fur border-
ing her collar and cuffs. Brown costumes
were again prominent, among the wearers
being Mrs. Clive Leonard, Mrs. Harold
Anderson and the Luxton lady. There was a
touch of spring in the reseda-green suit worn
by Marie Watson, which was topped by a
white hat wreathed with daisies. Others who
patrolled the lawns were Philip Russell and
liis daughter Mary; Dr. H. Ritchie, from
Sydney; the Oswald Watsons, of Bendigo;
and the A. G. Hunters.
At a dance at No. 9 on Friday night the
hostesses were Mrs. W. Gardiner, in corn-
flower blue; Winifred Mills, in black chif-
fon, and Mrs. L, Drysdale, in wood-brown
angel-skin. There were four debs. Joyce
Gardiner’s auburn hair was set off by a
frock of white lace with ruchings of white
silk in lieu of sleeves. Nicky Drysdale was
in white taffeta that melted into a deep
flounce of white tulle, and Patricia Mills,
willowy and fair, wore a white satin gown,
rather high of neck in front, with puff
sleeves. Moira Madden, a grand-daughter
of the late knight John Madden, was clad
in white muslin cut on early-Victorian
lines. Organdie muslin, sashes and puff
sleeves were featured. Judy Thornley, of
the Western District, had large black buttons
on one side of the skirt of her white angel-
skin frock, D’Arcy Lawry’s sulphur-colored
flat crepe frock was made with a deep cape
that fastened at the back, and her sister
Judith was in georgette that shaded from the
palest pink to the deepest rose. Beverley
Jackson was in apple-green satin, and Bar-
bara Lyon chose parchment satin. Beryl
Moore achieved something different by having
pansy purple velvet sleeves for a gown of
deep cream satin. Peggy Finkelstein’s cream
satin was worn with a wreath of jade-
green leaves. Betty Vivienne Stephens con-
trasted with her frock of beige lace a neck-
lace and bracelet of huge bronze-colored
beads.
Most of the roses that help to make Moonee
Valley race-
course the
prettiest in the
State come
from the
Bulla resid-
ence of the
M. V. R. C
chairman, Ali-
ster Clark,
who is depicted
here casting
an affectionate
but critical
eye on one of
his pets. He
takes a keen
interest in the
appearance of
the course and
its buildings
and on race
days his
flowers make a
gorgeous show
in the tea-
rooms. He fol-
lowed hounds
in Moo n e e
Valley as soon as there were hounds to
follow, and loves horses almost as well as
lie loves roses.
Though the weather was vile, the charity
gymkhana at the Peninsula Country Golf
Club, Frankston, did not suffer from lack
of patronage. Mrs. George Russell was
there as representative of the Lady Forster
Free Kindergarten, in whose interests the
affair was staged. Besides golf and a put-
ting competition there were a treasure hunt,
stalls with wares of all kinds and a game
of bridge for those who preferred to stay
indoors. Secretarial duties were shared by
Mrs. J. E. Hogan and Miss McCormick,
Mrs. Sidney Gullett being hon. treas.,
assisted by Lorna Mann. Mrs. Arthur
Rickards was the convener of the sports.
To help the distribution of newspapers and
magazines to lonely settlers outback, there
was a bridge gathering at the Victoria
League’s rooms on Thursday, arranged by
a committee headed by Mrs. George Blanch.
Bazaar stalls for the sale of flowers and so
forth swelled the takings.
Financial help for the District Nurses’
after-care home was garnered at a bridge
party at Mrs. John Masters’s flat at Myoora
Other flats in the block followed the good
example and opened their doors to players,
of whom there were close on 300. The
Marion Boothby Auxiliary sponsored the
effort.
The Austral Salon gave a tea party in
honor of Marie Bremner, Maisie Ramsay
and Bernard Manning, of the Gilsullivan co.
Gladys Verona and Roy Warren sang, and
there were violin solos by Roy Bohme, with
Harold Rodgers at the piano.
Bathing costumes —they call them “swim-
suits” —as demonstrated at a recent manne-
quin parade consist of little more than a
brassiere and a pair of trunks. Beach-wear
suits consist of braces hitched to very short
shorts, and their name is “Sunbasque.”
What these togs lack in area they make up
for in the brightness of their coloring. Huge
straw hats, also of very vivid hues, go with
the garments, and so do cloaks and pyjamas
exhibiting all the tints of the rainbow.
A London wedding of last week was that
of Phyllis, only daughter of the Walter
Dunnes, of Netley station, N. S. Wales —
they also have a home in Melbourne —and
Lieutenant D. W. D. Nicholl, of the Royal
Artillery, who was on the staff of G.-G.
Stonehaven.
Marie, only daughter of the William
Heaths, of Heidelberg, departed by the
Ormonde to keep a wedding date in England
with Dr. Mervyn H. B. Robinson, who is
researching at the R.C'.S. in London. The
bridegroom-to-be is the only son of the Rev.
and Mrs. T. C. Robinson, of Caulfield.
Mrs. E. M. Colombie, president of the
Woodland Golf Club’s associates, was enter-
tained at tea at the links on her return from
foreign travel. Mrs. G. Ampt, the vice-
president, made a speech and handed the
guest of honor a posy.
Trafalgar Day celebrations included a
march of 600 bluejackets and a bulldog to
Parliament House, where the Union Jack,
the Australian Ensign and a great white
ensign fluttered. The G.-G. and Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Irvine took salutes. The feu-de-joie
was a feature of the proceedings, the crackle
of rifle fire running up and down the lines
from Little Collins- to Little Bourke-street.
Pictured here by a Dickinson-Monteath
camera is Beverley Jackson, daughter of the
late G. R.
Ja c kson, of
Victoria, and
of Mrs. Charles
S. Cunning-
ham, of Too-
ra k. The
young lady is
a great worker
for the Lady
Northcote Free
K i ndergarten,
and is hon. sec.
of the Toorak
auxiliary o f
St. Martin’s
Boys’ Home.
She has a
flair for ama-
teur theatri-
cals and has
appeared in
several char-
ity show s.
Keen on sport
of all kinds, she was runner-up in the
women’s squash racquets championship re-
cently. Miss Jackson’s engagement to
James Watt, son of the late Colonel Oswald
Watt and of the Lawford lady, of Toorak,
was announced a few weeks ago.
In “Trial by Jury,” which precedes “The
Pirates of Penzance” at the Royal this
week, the bridesmaids wear petal-pink georg-
ette swathings with a touch of deeper hue,
and bands of diamente sparkle in their hair.
Marie Bremner, as the bride, sports an ankle-
length gown of white tulle sprinkled with
orange buds. Among the first-nighters on
Saturday were Mr. and Mrs. F. Bishop; the
J. Fells and their daughter, Mrs. J. Crespin ;
Mrs E. L. Solomon, ofTluonville (Tas.);
the Robert Nathans and Mr. and Mrs.
Lindsay Mildred.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton launched a show of
pictures by seven young painters at the
Collins Gate Gallery and bought four of
the exhibits. 11. L. Fern said thanks, with
flowers. Among first-day viewers were Mrs.
11. S. K. Ward, Mrs. E. R. Heffernan and
Mary Emmerton, who accompanied her aunt.
Melbourne Hospital has received £5OO
from knight John Grice to endow a bed in
memory of his late wife.
At the Comedy the Korovian Dramatic
Club performed Noel .Coward’s “I’ll Leave
It to You” and Marjorie Bowen’s “A Family
Comedy” to aid Korowa Grammar School’s
scholarship fund. Arthur Davies was pro-
ducer.
Mrs. John Sutherland, hon. sec. of Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, has been spending a holiday at
Nauru. The British Phosphate Co., she says,
has brought all the comforts of civilisation
to the islet. The bungalows of its officers
have electric light and sewerage, a hospital
and a baby clinic have been established, and
there are many motor-cars. Bridge, tennis,
dancing and swimming are the chief pas-
times.
The T. J. Confoys have returned after
eight months of foreign travel. Mr. Confoy,
who is governing director of the Southern
Cross Assurance Society, was welcomed by
liis fellow-directors at a dinner at the
Oriental.
Ivan Menzies, of the Gilsullivan co.,
launched Josephine Paxton’s show of paint-
ings. Among those who attended the open-
ing were the Quick lady, the J. J. Listons,
Aileen Dent and Mrs. 11. S. K. Ward.
Wilma Berkeley is the latest Australian
to make good in opera in the Cold Land,
one London critic describing her Mimi as
ideal and her singing “charming in its
naturalness.” Miss Berkeley was born on
the Westralian goldfields, but Melbourne
claims her as artistic godchild.
Dr. Margaret McLorinan. known to her
friends as “Peg,” who has died after a long
illness, w T as for 21 years on the staff
of Queen Victoria Hospital, and was also
on the committee of management. She had
a practice in Collins-street, and was a
fellow of the Royal Australian College of
Surgeons.
Sister Beatrice Ackroyd, who for the last
two years has had charge of the hospital at
Wyndham (W.A.), called in at Melbourne
last week on her way to England; she has
many friends here. She was a nurse at
Netley and Salisbury during the early part
of the Great War, and later for two years
in a military hospital in France. Ten years
ago the lady came to Australia, and she has
held posts in Tas. and Vie. as well as in
Westralia.
Painter Rupert Bunny, who lives in
France nowadays, arrived by the liner
Cenhee to visit his relatives. Mrs. Donald
Mackinnon is his sister.
Aboard the Orontes, due in Melbourne
this week, are Mrs. Purves Smith, who
attended the wedding of her daughter Joce-
lyn in London; the Clive Millers and their
daughter Joan, returning after a long
absence.
Ethel Davies, of Perth, one of the front-
rankers among The Bulletin’s poetesses,
has just brought out a book of verse called
“Naught So Very Wise.” Of the 96 poems
many have appeared in The Bulletin and
the “Woman’s Mirror,” and readers who have
enjoyed them there will treasure the collec-
tion inside these attractive covers.
A script from S. Aus.: —
Pauline Brooks, the pretty daughter of A. J.
Brooks, master of the “Prep” School at St. Peter’s
College, gave a bright dance at her home for about
40 young friends. Several of the new cotton evening
frocks were worn, but they lack the charm of silk
and chiffon. Mrs. Brooks was smartly gowned in
black lace, and the young hostess looked charming
in pale pink angel-skin lace.
In the Australia Hall the Junior Red Cross Society
presented three small plays in aid of the anti-T.B.
clinic. Thelma Baulderstone was the producer;
Mrs. Hill, the Premier’s wife, made a speech in
one of the intervals.
There was a Charity Ball held in the Palais Royal
when eight dance clubs combined in aid of Kuitpo
Colony and Minda Home. Numerous attractions were
featured on the programme; the most popular
was box lacrosse played on the dance floor by two
teams. About 800 guests were present.
The Town Hall was charmingly decked out for
supper when Trafalgar Day was celebrated. His
Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were received by the
Naval Commandant (Commander Symonds), the Base
Commandant (Brigadier Hardie) and the president
of the Navy League (knight Edward Lucas). Boy Sea
Scouts formed a guard of honor.
The officers of the Australian fleet found awaiting
them invitations to two charity balls; the Legacy
Ball on Wednesday night and the Adelaide Children’s
Hospital Ball on Friday.
Society was well represented at Gover-street, Unley
Park, the residence of Mrs. Eric Tolley, when Lady
Hore-Ruthven opened the fete held in the garden
to raise funds for the Babies’ Aid Society. She
was received by Mesdames Napier Birks and Erie
Tolley.
From beyond the Bight:—
The young tilings have had the time of their
lives during the Canberra’s visit. G.-H. ballroom
was chosen for the Bankers’ Ball. Rear-
Admiral Daglish danced with a sparkle in his eye
and the spring of youth in his step. The Griffiths
Bowen couple, Brigadier and Mrs. Mai'tyn and General
Hobbs and his lady were present. Among the
throng of dancers were Nancy Hobbs in a pinky
jacket, the sleeves elaborately puffed, and sister Betty
in prawn-pink. Jo Temperly was a picture from
days gone by in her lilac organdie; Mary Forrest
thought out something new in her scarlet georgettes,
coin-spotted in white; Dorothy Howe’s orange frock
was of organdie ; Jean Lang wore laces of nectarine
tint and sister Pat was in formal black and white;
Frances Corbet’s green, satin was touched with black
and gold; Betty McCulloch was arresting in her
black taffetas; Marjorie Butler’s ivory moire looked
cool with its cut-out corsage; Betty Halbert wore a
black coatee with her lilv-green pussywillow; Barbara
Nairn tied a green sash about her ivory lace garment;
Betty Wood was up to the minute with her pink-
cotton frock and lei of flowers; and the Bankers’
“Ray,” Phyllis Kearns, was in coral chiffons.
Another member of the musical Pether family will
shortly take a plunge into matrimony. She is
Sybil May and her fiance is Thomas Arthur Marsden,
of Kalgoorlie.
Nancy Millicent, daughter of the 11. J. Hughes
couple of Muresk, has accepted tjie heart and hand
of Marshall Clifton, of Manderri, Northampton.
Jean McGregor, who faces the altar in a few days,
was the centre of tea and chatter at the Palace.
Frances Riches was hostess in a medley of red and
white georgettes and red millinery. Miss McGregor
chose a flowered frock of pastel tonings. Among the
guests were Mrs. Wilfrid Campion, Gwen Brazier,
Joan Smith, Mollie Munro and Freda Lunt.
News comes from England of the marriage of
Mary, the beautiful second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charlie Ackroyd Stuart. The bridegroom is
Captain Harry Kelly, of the Queen’s Royal Regiment,
and the ceremony was performed at Winehelsea.
On the anniversary of Trafalgar the Seafarers’
Ball was held in the Y.A.L. Hall, officers of the
Canberra being lions of the evening. Admiral Daglish
came along and seemed to enjoy himself mightily ;
the doorkeepers were gallant in their century-old
uniforms, the bugler did his blowing dressed as one
of Nelson’s sailor boys, there were hundreds of flags
and everybody brimmed over with patriotism. Among
the merrymakers were Mrs. Martyn, whose black
satin was patterned with pink and blue flowers; Mrs.
Kaye Perrin, in shrimp-pink taffetas piped with
cream net; and Mrs. Dunckley, in ivory sprayed with
lilac. Joint ticket secretaries Mollie Learmonth and
Barbara Clarke wore respectively black satin and
white moire dashed with black.
Tas. tabloids:—
The John Fosters, of Pleasant Banks, Evandale, ran
a sizeable dance lately. The hostess w r as smart in
pale beige crSpe, with short red velvet coatee. Her
mother, Mrs. Effingham Lawrence, and her two sisters,
Mrs. G. Youl and Miss Barbara Lawrence, helped
to receive. Guests came from far and near.
The first annual dance of the Public Schools Old
Boys’ Association was held at Hutchins’ school
gymnasium. The color scheme would have delighted
the most advanced of modern artists, for the various
hues of Hutchins’, Friend’s, St. Virgil’s and Clemcs’
were all amalgamated.
Miss Olive Wilton (Mrs. Cornell) and her daughter
Junee are off to London shortly. They remain
there for a year, during which Junee will study at
the London Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. Miss
Wilton intends to have a look at all the Repertory
theatres available, with a view to bringing back
fresh ideas.
The Henry Reeds, of Mt. Pleasant, Launceston, threw
open their home for a big bridge party in aid of
the anti-cancer campaign. Over 40 tables were set
out in the ballroom. The wide stone verandahs
were turned into a bazaar with work stalls and
produce to catch small change for the cause. The
flowers, both in the garden and decorating the
rooms, were a show not to be forgotten. Dr.
Holman gave a short address on the campaign.
Marie, daughter of the E. H. Sansoms, and
Charles Ibbott were made fast for life by the Rev.
C. K. Pitt. The wedding was a very quiet one,
only relatives and a sprinkling of friends being
present. The bride sported pale beige lace and
georgette with satin straw hat to match, and her
only ’maid, Jean Atkins, looked daffodillish in yellow
muslin with green waistband, hat and shoes.
The Trevor Eardley-Wilmots (Launceston) have
gone for a trip to the East. Mrs. Landon Fairthorne
and Mrs. Robt. Hawker gave them a send-off at the
Brisbane Hotel before they left.


KIDNEY TROUBLE
—with all its
Chronic Pain
and Hidden
Danger!
Kidney Trouble, Neglected,
Means Breakdown!
If you are tired-out with pain, head-
ache, back almost breaking, nerves all
“ jumpy; ” if you sleep badly, are cross
and irritable; if you notice bad taste in
the mouth, sallow complexion, if you
fear dreadful kidney trouble, take this
honest advice.
Aw:
W:
W
wSSSSSiSSSS
>:vv*
fc;:
II iisiiisi
That chronic pain that makes you a misery to yourself and all around you is
Nature frantically signalling the need for something to be done and done quickly.
You complain of being tired and worn-out, constant dull aching in the region of the
kidneys, and yet you keep on doing nothing. Perhaps a few more cups of dreadfully
strong tea or a few purging, digestion-weakening salts are taken. Can it be
wondered that breakdown will surely come in time ?
There is a remedy for this depressing, health-wrecking state of affairs, caused by
deep-seated kidney weakness. It is no secret, it has been known for over forty years
under the name De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Tens of thousands of people
have tested this remedy and found it invaluable in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica, Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble. Go to
?our chemist now and secure a supply of this inexpensive yet wonderful remedy,
'he 3/6 you spend will be the best investment you will ever make.
Read this Remarkable Letter
—it will help you
Here is just one of thousands of letters which show you how quickly, how surely
this remedy acts. Read it carefully—it will sureiy help you.
Mrs. M. Morton, writing from 27 Smith Street, Summer Hill, Sydney, says
“It gives me much pleasure to write and tell you what relief I received
after taking less than one bottle of De Witt’s Pills. I suffered untold
agonies for six months with terrible burning, bearing-down pains, caused
through kidney and bladder trouble. 1 read a good deal about De Witt’s Pills,
and had been told by people they were splendid. At last I bought a large
bottle, with wonderful results, and since then I feel as if I had a new lease
of life. Now I feel in perfect health, and am able to continue with my
employment, which I certainly could not have done had it not been for the
wonderful relief 1 received after taking your marvellous pills. I recommend
them to all I know, and will never be zvithout them.”
This is the evidence of not one but thousands who owe freedom from pain and a
return of health, vitality and strength to “De Witt’s.” Many who say life has been
one long misery of pain and suffering have banished that misery for good—thanks to
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
We are convinced that, with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly end. For 40 years De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved invaluable for all forms of deep-seated
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Uric Acid and all the pain and weakness caused
by Kidney Trouble. Because of their enormous popularity this remedy has been
imitated. For your own sake —that is if you wish to get back health quickly and
surely—see you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the white,
blue and gold box, sold by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger, more
economical size, 6/6. These pills are never sold loose.
De WITTS
Kidney
and
Bladder
PILLS
The Astronomer.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WITH the arrival of General Sir
Thomas Brisbane,” writes the
Baron Yon Big in those “Memoirs”
previously alluded to in . these columns,
“there was inflicted upon New South Wales
an individual as uncouth and singular as
ir, has ever been my fortune to encounter.
I allude to the Herr Carl Riimker.
“He was born at Mecklenburg, and some-
how contrived to enter the British Navy, in
which he served from his nineteenth to his
thirtieth year. His experience therein, and
his undoubted ability, led to his receiving
the appointment of superintendent of the
nautical school in Hamburg. In 1821 Sir
Thomas Brisbane selected him as astrono-
mer, and brought him to this country, where
lie placed him in charge of the observatory
he was the means of establishing at the rear
of the vice-regal residence at Parramatta.
“During a period when my strange fel-
low-countryman was engaged in searching
the heavens nightly with his telescope on
the hill at Parramatta, I too, had nocturnal
occupation of an engrossing nature. Lydia
Fitzsimmons was a delightful creature —a
typical Currency Lass from the Hawkes-
bury, where they grow their girls strong.
They are also extremely good-looking, and
are no prudes. I would not call them ‘bold’
or ‘forward,’ but they have a frankness with
the opposite sex which is entirely delightful.
Lydia was the wife of an innkeeper in Par-
ramatta, who was so unworthy of such a
woman as to deserve all the unfaithfulness
he incurred. Picture this man and wife for
yourself—Theodore, a bandy-legged horse-
coper, with the morals of a tomcat and the
honesty of a pickpocket; Lydia, with the
graces of a goddess and the charm of fairy-
land.
“This man Fitzsimmons trained horses for
the so-called ‘sport of kings,’ which, about the
’twenties, was fast establishing itself as the
national Australian recreation. He kept
stables at. his inn on the Windsor-road —the
Black Dog—and maintained a corps of
‘sporting’ characters as degraded as himself
for the purpose of feeding, grooming and
exercising those ornaments of the turf en-
trusted to his keeping by officers of the
garrison and the landed gentry of the district.
My estate of Pampeluua was adjacent to
some paddocks which he rented from the
Reverend Samuel Marsden. It was from
•passing by his door, when riding or driving
to or from Parramatta, that I became
familiar with the charms of Lydia, and de-
termined upon her conquest; and ere very
long the lovely creature was devoted to me.
“Lydia now found the bow-legged gait of
her lawful husband so distasteful that she
began to importune me to set her up in some
establishment of her own. To this I was by
no means unwilling, and as my station of
Salamanca, on the Macquarie River, was
likely in the immediate future to demand
much of my personal attention, it was decided
that she should proceed thither for the pur-
pose of taking the situation of housekeeper.
She would ride, it was arranged, to Bathurst,
in the company of one of my overseers, a Mr.
John Halliday. and two or three drovers
who had recently brought a mob of fat cattle
to the coast, and there await my arrival in
the course of a fortnight or so. Clues would
be left in Sydney as to her disappearance
over the sea, and she would be as ■well hidden
at Salamanca as if I had sent her to Van
Diemen’s Land, for in the days before the
discovery of the electric-telegraph distances
were very much greater than they are now.
“The arrangement adjusted itself admir-
ably. As a housekeeper Lydia w r as all that
was to be desired, and looked after my
comfort in a way that endeared her to me.
Two months after her installation at Sala-
manca, I was informed one morning at my
Parramatta home that the man Fitzsimmons
desired an interview with me. Giving orders
that the fellow should be told to. wait, I
finished my breakfast, and then went out to
liim. He greeted me with servility, and I
demanded shortly what lie wanted.
“ ‘Your honor, Mister Baron,’ he said,
“that’s a likeiy-looking little mare as runs
in th’ field by the Black Dog, an’ I’m told
be a fellie from th’ west country as how
my Lyddy’s got a job in your employ. Now,
a fair exchange ain’t no robbery. Mister
Baron—what about it?’
“ ‘You may take the marc,’ I said to him,
and turned on my heel, for I had a great
distaste for the fellow. Thus were my rela-
tions with Lydia amicably regularised, to the
satisfaction of everybody concerned.
“But I am proceeding too fast. Let us
go back two months.
“It was arranged by the fair lady that we
should meet, to begin our journey to Emu
Ford (where I was to hand her over to the
trustworthy John Halliday), in the Domain,
at the back of Government House, close
beside Herr Riimker’s observatory. We
would thus be able to leave the town un-
observed, and, as she had been absent from
home on a visit to Sydney, her departure
would not be brought to her husband’s
notice for some days. She would have
ridden from Sydney at dusk, we were to
meet at nine o’clock at night in the posi-
tion indicated.
“The night was close and sultry, as I
made my way to our rendezvous, and it
seemed that a storm might break at any
moment. Indeed, there were already rumb-
lings to the southward, and the clouded sky
was very black and threatening. However,
I rode to our trysting place full of ardent
anticipations. I observed a light in the
window of the small cottage which was the
dwelling place of Herr Riimker.
“My pretty charmer was not later for her
appointment than might have been expected
of any member of her sex, and I had not
been waiting more than forty minutes when
my mare whinnied, and I heard the clatter
of hooves coming up the track that led from
Government House to the observatory.
Gathering my reins, I rode forward to meet
her. We alighted from our horses, and
spent some little time in endearments. In
the meantime, the black storm approached
from the south, and we were presently
brought back to earth by the crash of
thunder and the splashing of large rain-
drops. The approach of the storm boded
little comfort in our journey of fifteen miles
to Emu Ford.
“Indeed, our present situation was un-
pleasant enough, with a semi-tropical down-
pour on the point of drenching the earth.
The eucalyptus-tree, though graceful and
beautiful, affords but poor shelter in a rain-
storm, and Lydia’s social position was such
that we could hardly apply for refuge at
Government House, even if the enterprise
in hand had not enjoined secrecy. I was
hastily unstrapping my cloak from the saddle
to protect the shoulders of my companion,
when I caught sight of Herr Riimker’s light.
Of course—that was the place. Even the
uncouth star-gazer could hardly refuse pro-
tection on such a night as this, and, since
the dense clouds had overcast the skies, we
would not be interrupting his astronomical
pursuits. I tied the horses securely to a
sapling, and hammered on the door of the
little brick cottage with the butt of my
riding-whip, whilst Lydia crouched against
the side of it for shelter.
“After near five minutes of hammering- on
the door, it was unbarred and opened—but
only fpr an inch or two, and I was able to
make out the countenance of the astronomer.
“ ‘Open— open!’ I shouted. ‘There is a
lady here. Pray, afford us protection from
the storm, my dear Herr Riimker. ’Tis the
Baron Yon Big—your countryman. Kindly
let us in, my good sir.’
“And then an astonishing thing happened.
The door was thrown open suddenly, and
with the yell of a maniac Carl hurled him-
self out into the night. I had a vision of
flying shirt-tails and bare, skinny legs, and
heard a shriek of merry laughter from Lydia.
“‘Roppers! Roppers!’ lie howled, as lie
fled, and we found ourselves alone in the
squalid dwelling. We went inside. Lydia
was doubling up with laughter.
“ ‘Oh, did you see him?’ she shrieked.
‘He had no pants on. Oh, what a sight!’
From a box beside the truckle-bed she
picked up the astronomer’s trousers. ‘Run
after him and catch' him. He’ll raise the
alarm at Government House —and then
where are we? Run after him, and put his
pants on, and bring him back.’
“I recognised that her advice was good,
snatched Herr Riimker’s pantaloons and
pursued him into that devil of a night.
Ahead of me I could hear lusty yells of
alarm, entreaties for help, loud denuncia-
tions of robbers. A flash of lightning showed
the bare-legged apparition running and
stumbling dowri the pathway towards the
corner of the guardhouse at the rear of
Government House, where there stood a
wooden sentry-box. Calling to him to halt,
I sped after him. He ran the faster.
“Why the sentry did not stop him I do
not know, and can only conclude that the
noise of the storm had overcome all his
perceptive senses. As I passed the guard-
house I saw that the door was shut, and I,
also, was not challenged. A flash of light-
ning revealed my quarry scrambling over the
paling fence that surrounded the garden.
“‘A thousands devils!’ I shouted. ‘Stop
—you fool!’
“But lie didn’t stop, and I swarmed
the fence after him, and ran round
corner of the big, square house. J-
should have been another sentry in-
front, but he also must have sought
shelter of his wooden refuge, which st
by the gate, so that we passed behind n •
“If I should live for ten thousand .yeai*
I would never forget the next five minute
—or, rather, the next minute and a halt.
“There is a little square porch betoie
the front door of Government House, a c
from the broad passage which passes irom
front to rear, the drawing-room opens on
the riglit-hand side immediately the threshold
is crossed. Within this spacious apartment
tliis evening was a little company assembled
of his Excellency’s friends. The Reverend
Marsden, red-faced and burly, was there;
Mr. and Mrs. John Blaxland, of Newing-
ton, and Colonel and Mrs. Dumaresq, to-
gether with a sweet-faced, English-looknig
young lady, who was singing by the piano-
forte, to the accompaniment of Mrs. Darling.
She was just beginning that exquisite Scot-
tish ballad, ‘Annie Laurie,’ when the aston-
ishing astronomer burst into the room. I
arrived at the door just too late to grab
his flying shirt-tails, as he leapt in the
midst of the company with a final shriek of
apprehension, as he realised the narrowness
of his escape from the clutch of the ‘ropper.
“I dropped Herr Iliimker’s trousers, and
stood still, just inside the hall doorway, in a
position whence I had a view of this singular
scene.
“General Darling was standing on the
hearthrug, in the undress uniform of his
rank, and beside him was the stoutly-built
Senior Chaplain. They were transfixed with
astonishment. Mr. Blaxland stood with his
wife by the window at the end of the room,
which, since the evening was very close, was
open. Colonel Dumaresq was seated, in
civilian evening costume, upon an ottoman
near the middle of the room. A Mrs. Darling,
on the music-stool, had her back to the wild
man, and the pretty pink-and-white English
miss was at her side, also momentarily un-
aware of this singular visitation.
“Maxwellton’s braes are bonny,
Where early fa’s the dew —
sang the maiden, whilst the Governor, the
colonel, the chaplain and Mr. Blaxland
goggled at the incredible intruder. Mrs.
Blaxland sank upon a sofa, and hid her
eyes wdtli both her hands, and Mrs.
Dumaresq swooned. And then, in a falsetto
screech, Herr Riimker shouted out in terri-
fied vociferation:
“‘Your Egzellenzy! Roppers! Murter!
Ach Gott — murter!’
“Ever have I admired the promptitude of
the English soldier. Though I had always
regarded Lieutenant-Colonel Dumaresq as
without brains, I must concede that liis
promptitude, on that occasion, was admir-
able. The effects of his action were disas-
trous, but his instinct guided him aright.
He sprang to his feet, and with his closed
fist dealt the unfortunate astronomer a blew
that sent him sprawling. He brought up
against Mrs. Darling and the poor young
songstress, and they subsided in a heap. I
saw no more. Hastily kicking Herr Riimker’s
trousers into the drawing-room, I turned and
fled into the storm. Gott in Himmel!”


Ask for
‘MW
®i'sVs
!;■
4**
•:
Y-;'^
s *otsQJi
r JS*-J
Hfeounted >9° ' M
«0»
nrcauum
ESTABLISHED 1807,
this tine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
DAJ.M-CALLUM LIS EDIN BUR OH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF McCALLUM;
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
stfeu.LLetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered "The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD *
Box 2521 88, GJP.O., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
, for wßich I enclose £
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-: 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 34)/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
4
w
1
t 9O
0°
<&*
o<
■•: <s
A


ET M
ROIT
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY^THE^KING'
C H
DIEN
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H.THE PRINCE OF WAtES
LUBRICATE
EMPIRE
TRADE
WAKEFIELD
with
MOTOR OIL
A Grade for Every
Motoring and
Engineering Purpose
C. G. WAKEFIELD 8c CO. LTD. {The All British Firm)
