

11l
S. ' *
mooth
'/71PZ/
You have never smoked a cooler, blander cigarette
than "666.” No bite ... no tickle . . . only a
cool, grateful s-m-o-o-t-h-n-e-s-s that is welcomed by
the most apprehensive throat. And that sense of
palate-refreshment miraculously persists. Pick out
the distinctive orange-and-gold tin at your
tobacconist’s to-day.
t
m
*-?■-
WMIMmXgmM
o'
t>
©
fgggg
* ■
4508 C-9-2
666
C %j& New State Express
. . . cork-tipped, of course.
10 f or 9 d 20 f or V 6
And in 50s Flat Pocket Tins and 50s Round Airtight Tins.
The Bulletin
(9»v—-#S
Vol. 53.—N0. 2747.
Wednesday, October 5, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'J’HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOUI
- SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
OLYSAGHTT
HI I
o
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
gnt icmvi
bu guru
Era
F OR over a half century the
name Cuf ieura has been
before the public. Have
you ever wondered what
the name means? Derived
from Cutis-cura, it means
just this, ''care of the skin,”
and that is what Cnti»
eura Preparations
have been doing for mil-
lions of people throughout
the world.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
JIBinPiEAf m
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Ho m e Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and •
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Ihe service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting t'he
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 15,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealajnder’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, Londpn,
W.C.2. where they can see the home papersj,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
agree
That the Soundest State
v:
38%
ilP
llli
-v-
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGDADH
LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The “Oxford Accent”
This is the English-speaking world’s most
conspicuous misnomer. It is also one of
its most popular sneers. At Oxford, early
in the century, there were “blues” from
such schools as Fettes and Edinburgh
Academy with Scottish accents; “scholars”
from Grammar Schools with English pro-
vincial accents; plenty of undistinguished
undergrads, with Welsh and Dublin and
Belfast accents, and dons with all kinds
of accents. Since then Rhodes Scholars
and brilliant products of the British Board
School system have begun to arrive in
force, and the smoking-room of Vincent’s
itself is liable to be a babel of American,
Australian, Boer, Scotch, Welsh, Irish, Ger-
man, and all the English accents, including
Cockney. What a local Laborite means
when he sneers at Mr. S. M. Bruce’s
“Oxford accent” (actually, it is an Aus-
tralian accent) is that he is afflicted by an
English public school accent. This accent,
which is based on the r-less speech of most
of the southern counties, is that of the pro-
fessional classes and the successful gener-
ally in England, and it is cherished ther
as the Parisian accent is in France. It
possessor is placed immediately by a fellow
countryman as a person of culture. So it i
imitated (usually without success, since, like
all accents, it can rarely be acquired excep;
in youth), and exaggerated by those who
already have it and want to appear “more
royalist than the King,” and by humorists
professional and otherwise. Stage fops
from the “gilded popinjays” of Shakspeare’s
day to those played by Ralph Lynn, have
always got laughs. Though the type of
young Englishman whom Wodehouse draws
so well has always been popular everywhere
in literature and on stage a.nd screen, his
so-called “Oxford accent” for some strange
reason has the faculty of inspiring hostility
No English university don would dream
of attacking, say, the Harvard accent; it
would arouse no emotions in him one way
or the other. Not so a similar type, cultur-
ally speaking, in the U.S.A. Dr. Frank H
Vizetelly, the New York lexicographer, is
so revolted by what he calls the “Oxforc
accent” that he denounced it recently in
the “Atlantic Monthly,” and when Dr. R
W. Chapman, of Oxford, wrote a few mile
words of protest he came back with a
blistering retort in which the depth of his
feelings made it difficult for him to refer
to his critic by name. “This Gentleman
from Oxford,” he sneered. The contro-
versy has just been published in pamphlet
form of Funk and Wagnalls, of New
York, with the title A Matter oj Pronuncia-
tion. It should interest the thousands of
Australians who are beginning to get accent-
conscious, and particularly the well-known
writers who debated American and English
slang the other day in the Sydney press.
The American Case
Dr. Vizetelly, like most Americans, is an
advocate of the rolled r.
Henry James, who lived in England for
nearly half a century, found out. while on a
visit to the land of his birth, that the letter
r got “terribly little rest among great masses
of our population in the boundless West,”
and condemned us for lack of taste for utter-
ing it when present. Ido had lived in Eng-
land so long that it jarred on his ears when
he heard it spoken by a vir-r-rile race.
People in England, Dr. Vizetelly complains,
can’t ask you to dinner; they ask you to
“dinnah.” The slovenly habit of eliding
letters which “has spread from the East
End of London to the West End” is making
English speakers what he calls “inarticu-
late.” (He means inaudible.)
Go into any [London | church and listen to
.the clergyman reading the service or preach-
ing. Few can hear what the man is saying;
fewer still can understand him. How very
different it is over here!
He is on stronger grounds regarding the
practice of suppressing letters and thereby
failing to express the idea of words. The
elision of the medial a in “extraordinary”
is an example. And then there are the
people (of whom we have a considerable
number in Australia) who strive after
hyper-refinement. He quotes George
Arliss as saying, “Oxford University rather
prides itself on the fact that you can always
tell an Oxford man,” and “refaned” is in-
stanced as a typical Oxford perversion. If
Mr. Arliss made the alleged remark he
was talking rubbish. “Refaned” is not
public school English. You won’t even hear
it from those who burlesque public school
English like Ralph Lynn. It is the mincing
English of genteel
West End shop
assistants and
minor talkie act-
resses. “Q ua t e
nace” 1 and “the fet
ket on the met,”
which are also cited by Dr. Vizetelly as
Oxford English, come in the same category.
Lancashire calls it “talking proud.” Eng-
lish people, cultured and uncultured alike,
can instantly distinguish between a fellow-
national who is “talking proud” and one who
is talking naturally. Judging by Dr. Vize-
telly, many travelled and highly educated
Americans can’t, and that may account for
their habit of classing all spoken English
outside the dialects as “Oxford” and bad.
An Oxonian’& Defence
Dr. Chapman says nothing in his defence
of the English spoken by the average
London professional man which might
wound an American, except that he prefers
it. He also prefers it to the English spoken
m Scotland and to “the English of Aus-
tralia.”
It has, I believe, a clarity of tone that
makes it exceptionally pleasant to hear, and
a certain elasticity that makes it a subtle
instrument of expression by which the
nuances of the speaker’s mood and intention
are readily conveyed.
He gives the names of some British speakers
of recent years—Lord Balfour, Lord Oxford
and Mr. Baldwin—-and doubts if other
countries have produced voices more
polished and musical. The carelessness of
which Dr. Vizetelly complains is not denied.
But he points out that it is chiefly notice-
able m colloquial conversation. He might
have instanced G. B. Shaw, who recently
described a breakfast-table talk between
himself and his wife as consisting of grunting
sounds which they understood but which
might have been Greek or gibberish to out-
siders. And Shaw is an ideal platform
speaker—a famous exponent of the famous
Dublin accent —and a 8.8. C. authority on
articulation. In most countries there is
one kind of speech for private and another
for public consumption, and this probably
applies in the U.S.A. The real test is:
How do a nation’s representative men and
women compare with those of other nations
when they are not relaxing in their homes
or clubs : Are American preachers really
easier to hear than English ones? Dr.
Chapman thinks they may be—to Ameri-
cans. Audibility is largely a matter of use;
of knowing what sounds to expect next in
a given sentence. Australians, whose voices
are neither English nor American, should be
reliable arbitrators on this question; and
it is hard to imagine a fair-minded Aus-
tralian complaining of indistinctness in such
masters of London English as Dean In<m
and Father Woodlock, S.J. So Dr. Vizetelly
—though Dr. Chapman doesn’t suggest it—
may be biased against these possessors of
what he would call the “Oxford accent,”
and ready to credit them with almost any
offence against the tongue that Shakspeare
might have spoken if he had lived in this
age. It is a common attitude; one which
is to be found not only in the U.S.A and
here, but among thousands in the United
Kingdom.
Apart from its interest as a presentation
by experts of both sides of an ancient con-
troversy, A Matter of Pronunciation dis-
cusses hundreds of words in which the
syllables are emphasised differently in Eng-
land and the U.S.A. “Address.” “incompar-
able,” “irreparable” and the like. On this
score alone—for the light it casts on the
origins of words—the pamphlet is worth a
place in a.py school library.
RED PAGE.
English Films
A curious attitude is noticeable here to-
wards English films. The tendency with
many iilmgoers and with most of the papers
which don’t indiscriminately boost the pro-
ductions of every company that advertises
is to praise those produced by English
companies, however bad, and to damn out-
ught 01 with faint praise those produced
in England by Americans, or for American
companies, however good. A Sydney even-
mg paper had no more than this‘to say
OU j Pai ' a ™° u »t> “Lily Christine” on the
Monday after it was screened at the
Regent
M- l l Sti ? e ’,”, W<th Corinne Griffith, is another
of those Michael Arlen novels of a splay-footed‘stvle
unsuitable for adaptation for the screen.
A morning paper said:—
This is an exceedingly heavy and uninteresting
picture. Ihe characters have no significance- one
never knows quite who is in love with whom,’ and
cares less; and the dialogue is the dullest that has
appeared on the screen for a long time. Some of
the reasons for the happenings in the plot are
intensely puzzling. *
Part of the trouble may be that the life
depicted is unfamiliar. The critics are used
(Red Page continued on page d.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—Our Assurance, Your Guarantee.
"THE SENIOR STORE.'
SPRING CALLS FOR NEW FLOORCOVERINGS
Anthony
Horderns'
CARPETS and LINOS
are backed by a century’s reputation for reliability
l
J(v>
rh
K
■■• vyj i
:J^y
*2«?
||f§§|ig|
i >•
.■
S<&~4<
mm
m
te*
m
??<
•. , '* *v
m
m
i
is
-:<*■■
oo
&
Wi
M
m
3§g?|
23
v ' v V c v@*s
VS
|g
m
Axminster Carpet Squares
British Axminster Carpet Squares are the most popular of all floorcoverings
. . . .woven into a rich, silky pile to give long and serviceable wear.
Sizes 9ft. x 6ft. 9ft. x 7ft. 6in. 9ft. x 9ft. 1 Oft. 6in. x 9ft.
Prices £7/12/6 £9710/- £ll/10/- £l3/7/6
Sizes .... 1 2ft. x 9ft. I 2ft. x I Oft. 6in. 1 3ft. 6in. x 1 Oft. 6in. I sft. x 1 2ft.
Prices .. . £l5/5/- £l7/17/6 £2O £25/10/-
Imperia 1 Axminster by the Yard
Best-quality British Imperial Axminster Carpet by_ the yard. Suitable for
squares, close-covering rooms, hall and stair carpet.
Widths 27in. body. 18in. border. stair.
Prices, yard . . . 15/9 13/- 14/9
Widths 27in. stair. 36in. stair. 54in. stair.
Prices, yard 15/9 25/- 37/6
Axminster Rugs & Door Mats
Axminster Rugs. No. I quality. Available in the newest designs and colorings.
Woven with a soft, deep, silky pile.
Sizes . . 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 3in. sft. 3in. x 2ft. Bin. 6ft. x 3ft. 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in.
26/6 36/6 47/6 79/6
Dependable, serviceable and low priced! Axminster Door Mats. Strongly
woven.
Sizes 27in. x 12in. 30in. x 15in. 36in. x 22jin.
Prices . . 6/6 8/11 15/11
I
1
Tire!
P
■Xu
>r.v
rrtllllmii
wlli
S&i
llllll&ll
f*)Ks
ifst
a»i
w
*LI
u*
rv-
sa
i'/:
.1 ->
855
Sr
y//
3»
i 7?
HS
j *ys
»AV
t”!
>r*
ek
»•/-
M
V »V
/* <
'■Jirr- t '»‘ K
t'A
v?&
'•&
«*<•
awi
Ms
&
m
m§
8
i*r
8
A Range of Linoleum Squares
A Linoleum we can recommend for good, hard wear. A splendid range of
colors. Carpet, Tile, Matting and Floral designs are represented in this group.
Sizes 9ft. x 7ft. 6in. 9ft. x 9ft. 9ft. x 10ft. 6in. 9ft. x 12ft.
Anthony - Horderns’ Prices, each—
\ 49/6 59/6 v 69/6 79/6
Sizes . . • 1 Oft. 6in. x 12ft. 1 2ft. x 1 2ft. 13ft. 6in. x 12ft. I sft. x 1 2ft.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each—
-90- 102/6 117/6 126/-
Imperial ;w ood Fibre Squares
Imperial Wood Fibre Squares, available in art moderne designs in all colors.
Suitable for sun verandahs, etc., to match colored seagrass furniture. Keenly
priced.
Sizes ......... 7ft. x 4ft. 9ft. x 6ft. Bft. x 1 Oft.
Prices, each 22/6 42/6 65/-
Floorcovering in Art Moderne Designs
Modern floorcovering that combines the ultra modern in design with economy
and quality. British made, in several printed effects. 72 inches wide.
Prices, per yard 6/3, 7/11, 8/6
Twisted Inlaid Seagrass Mats
All the tints of the Orient are revealed in the borders of these twisted inlaid
seagrass mats. For wear they are unbeatable. Many sizes.
Sizes—
2ft. x 4ft. x sft. 6ft. x 3ft. 7ft. x 4ft. Bft. x sft. 9ft. x 6ft. 10ft. x Bft,
Prices- 4/6 s/9 9/11 13 / 6 22/6 32/6
Fancy Coir Matting
Fancy Coir Matting Runners, in a variety of colors
Widths, inches 18 22 \
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, yard—
Best quality 2/3 2/11
Medium quality 1/11 2/4
Runners
27 . 36
3/6 4/6
2/11 3/9
(Linoleums and Carpels—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


To
all those who feel
Tired
V,
%
w
r
o
r
tv.
Start
taking
SANATOOEN
NOWI
“VTOU need extra energy. To pull through
you must keep up your health and vigour,
You must shake off that feeling of irritability
and fatigue. And that is exactly what
Sanatogen will do for you.
Sanatogen will make you healthy and
vigorous again, it will give you a
reserve of nerve-strength and enable
you to work harder and more efficiently.
Sanatogen will keep you fit and fresh
all day and every day.
Strengthen your nerves with Sanatogen
“Can you trust Sanatogen, can you really rely
upon it?” Yes, with complete confidence!
And its action is as simple as it is essential;
for Sanatogen feeds your nerves with exact-
ly those elements—phosphorus and albumin
on which their health depends. It is a nerve-
food and therefore must do good. Physicians
all over the world recognise this, and that
is why that trustworthy nodical journal
“ The Lancet ” wrote:
"There is abundant evidence
• ■ ■ „ • i
of the value of Sanatogen as a
restorative."
Why not give Sanatogen a thorough
trial ? Go to your chemist to-day. You
will be surprised how much better
and stronger you will feel in only a
few days time.
SANATOGEN is sold at all Chemists.
Made by Genatosan Ltd., Loughborough,
England.


and a HEALING too!”
• ■ ■
f df
■
m
For
FLAWLESS
Entertainment
You, too,
will be
PROUD
to own
this
instrument.
"golden Voiced
adiu
’Phone
your local
dealer
for a
home
demonstration.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn Street.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin Street, C.l.
ADEL VI 1)10:
Cr. Pirie ami Pnlteuey Streets.
to screen stories in which audiences are
left in no doubt about the emotions of the
characters. Conventional Londoners, such
as those shown in “Lily Christine,” who are
influenced by a thousand and one considera-
tions which are ignored by passion-driven
screen-Americans, -Viennese, and so on.
puzzle them. Why, they complain, can’t
the hero and heroine realise they are the
only people in the world for each other
at once, in the usual way? Why make
the husband, who is obviously destined for
Lily Christine, try to keep his wife? Why
make Lily Christine try to keep her hus-
band? She has two children. Why can’t
she gather them to her bosom and sob
over them like a good film mother? And
she isn’t kissed—not what you could really
call kissed—once. There is no interest in
people so unnaturally cold-blooded.
The fact is, “Lily Christine” represents
life—and not merely life in England, but
in the U.S.A. and everywhere else—while the
situations in films like “The Blue Danube”
and “One Hour with You” represent
what romantic flappers like to believe life
is. The hero of “Lily Christine” might have
been in love with the heroine, yet not have
wanted to break up his home to get her, and
she might have been in love with him yet
not have been willing to sacrifice her child-
ren to get him. This commonest of social
problems hasn’t been handled before by
U.S.A. films on similar lines; not that it
wasn’t worth handling from an artistic
standpoint, but simply because the talkie
audiences of America’s Middle West, who
set the intellectual pace for most of the
films the Empire was seeing before the
depression, demanded themes which were
more luscious and less baffling. “Lily
Christine” is one of the few talkies Aus-
tralia has seen that credit audiences with
being mental adults; the possessors of a
certain amount of worldly experience and
psychological insight. And our critical
newspapers find it splayfooted, puzzling,
dull and lacking in significance!
A more understandable reason for praising
English at the expense of Anglo-American
films is patriotism. Every good Australian
would like to see English films outdistance
or at least equal their rivals. But have
they a hope of doing it? It is arguable,
judging by Elstree’s achievements up to
the present, that just as Germans for some
mysterious reason lack England’s clothes-
sense, so Englishmen lack Germany’s (also
America’s) film-sense. Most successful
English pictures have not been films at all.
but screened plays like “Rookery Nook.”
But they need a comic genius like Lynn.
G. B. Shaw produced one which was so
awful that he never tried another. Du
Maurier appeared in “Escape,” and was heard
of no more on the screen. Gladys Cooper
starred in a picture which she wouldn’t
release. By general consent “Piccadilly”
is the best 8.1. P. has done. It was directed
by the German Dupont, and the stars are
Gilda Gray and Anna May Wong. The
star of “Sunshine Susie” is Renate Muller
(German); Schildkraut (German-American),
Bi'igitte Helm (German) and a Hungarian
band are the attractions of “The Blue
Danube,” and Leontine Sagan (German),
is the star of 8.1.P.’s coming picture about
Oxford.
Where English-produced films have all-
English casts they are nearly always appall-
ing, however good the performers may be,
their chief defects being slow tempo, static
camera-work and old stage types instead
of real people. “Double Dealing” (with
Frank Pettingell and Sydney Fail-brother)
and “Mr. Bill the Conqueror” (Livesey,
Bromley-Davenport and other accom-
plished veterans) are recent examples. On
the other hand, films produced for Ameri-
can companies with all-English casts have
usually given almost flawless representations
of certain aspects of life in England. A case
in point is “Aren’t We All?” (Gertrude
Lawrence, Wakefield, Marie Lohr), which
recently finished a. month’s run at the
Prince Edward, and which has been warmly
praised in England.
Walter Ashley wrote of English films in
a London weekly the other day:—
We have the actors; we have the authors; we
have the scenery; we ha ve all manner of subjects—
social, industrial, scientific—of which the screen has
hardly begun to make use; all we lack is the
creative intelligence to make this or that synthesis
of these rich resources, and give it life.
The Americans for some reason can give
some of their syntheses life. After years
of skilled European propaganda which has
had the effect of turning the Word “Holly-
wood” into a term of opprobrium, and after
hundreds of stories about the place being at
last definitely on the down-grade, the pic-
tures of its companies continue to hold the
lead. Their public is nearly as big as the
Bible’s. The reputedly illiterate old
Hebrews in control are somehow able to
find Vidors, Lubitschs and Mamoulians, and
train Milestones, Wallaces and Wellmans;
men of creative intelligence who, even if
they turn out many poor films, at least
turn out some good ones.
Why should they not be encouraged by
Empire patriots everywhere to exercise their
gifts in England? Economically, it would
be a godsend. The more English talkies
produced by the American companies now
in England, owing to the T.U.C. embargo,
the more American money will be spent
there on sets, studio equipment, labora-
tories, cameras, electrical appliances and
light and power, rents, railway fares and
freights and innumerable other things, in-
cluding British workers’ wages and British
performers’ salaries. The prospects of any-
thing like the same amount of money being
spent on English-produced films are re-
mote. English companies have been try-
ing for six years now, a.nd leading English
critics are the readiest to admit that Eng-
land is still finding it nearly as hard to
make meritorious. films as Spain or Italy.
J.D.
The National Song Competition
Mr. J. McCrae, Acting-Director of Educa-
tion in Victoria, who made some remarks
which originated Ti-ie Bulletin’s National
Song Competition, gave a wireless address
on the subject the other night. He stressed,
among other interesting facts, the remark-
able diversity which exists in the matter
of songs of patriotism in the Common-
wealth—in other respects the most homo-
geneous of nations.. In his own State there
are three with competing claims (“Maker
of Land and Sea”; “Australia, Land of
Ours”; and “Australia, 0 Thou Favored
Isle!’ 5 ), but across the S. Aus. border “Song
of Australia” reigns, and it is also sung in
Tasmania. Westralia intones several, in-
cluding “Song of Australia”; and N. S.
Wales and Queensland favor “Advance,
Australia Fair.”
Can a song be evolved which so com-
pletely embodies the aspirations and dreams
of the country that like “0 Canada!” it
will be sung everywhere in Australia, and
recognised outside for what it is? The
Bulletin hopes so. Its competition will
close on the 16th of next month, entries
are free, and individual writers may send
as many different songs as they like. Con-
tributions must be signed with pen-names
(the real names, being in separate sealed
envelopes) and addressed: “Song Competi-
tion,” Bulletin Office, Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney. The winners of the prizes (First,
£25; Second, £10; and five consolation
prizes of £1 each)' will . probably be an-
nounced in The Bulletin issue of Decem-
ber 14 next.
Prior publication does not bar an entry.
But, of course, the entry may be made
only by the writer of the verse.
A Satchel of Books
To-morrow’s Woods, by Jane Oliycr (Col-
lins; 7s. GL). Ann Gordon, who .is 37. falls
in love with Toby Bethune, who is 23, and
he reciprocates her passion after a while.
But she is Scotch' and sensible. So Toby
is encouraged to pair off with pretty Cecilia
Farrell, and Ann falls back on her music.
This simple story is told with considerable
charm, and the characters, though unexcit-
ing, are life-like.
C. J. Cutcliffe Hyno has collected a
baker’s dozen of his best stories about the
Hebrides in West Highland Spirits (Ward,
Lock and Co.; 7s. 6d.). The writer liked
“The Was-Doctor,” which is a grim tale
of medical revenge, best; but “The Retired
Pirate’’ runs it close. The creator of Cap-
tain Kettle must be getting on now, but his
style, fancy and wit arc as vigorous as ever,
lie understands the young as well as he does
their elders, and humble Sass.enachs equally
with proud Highlanders.
The Steward (Collins; 7s. 6d.) is a col-
lection of short stories by Edgar Wallace, in
which the speaker is a Cockney in charge
of a set of staterooms on a trans-Atlantic
liner, while the passengers he talks about
are mostly card-sharpers and their victims.
What the author didn’t know on this sub-
ject was simply not knowledge and the book
is proportionately interesting—at any rate
to students of cards or crooks. Any of the
yarns would make an exciting movie, and
the dialogue, as in so many of Wallace’s
later efforts, is masterly.
Lady Incognito, by J. M. Walsh (The
Crime Club; 7s. 6d.), is the kind of book
that reconciles nervous Australians to the
fact that they can no longer afford to visit'
London. It deals with the activities of one
of those bands of criminal conspirators
which are rife in the West End just now,
according to writers of fiction. “The Fog-
men” had the Yard completely baffled till
Inspector Quaile got going. Members of the
aristocracy were concerned in their homi-
cidal depredations ; in fact—- —• But get
the book and find out who the mysterious
female was for yourself. It is quite a good
thriller, and Walsh is an Australian.
The Crime at Blossoms, by Mordaunt
Shairp (George Allen and Unwin; 3s. 6d.).
“Blossoms” is a cottage in rural England
owned by a spendthrift horticulturist and
his practical-minded wife. While the pair
are holidaying elsewhere a ghastly and
baffling murder is committed in their home,
and it becomes known to the sensational
press as the “Mystery House.” The wife
decides to capitalise the crime. She con-
verts “Blossoms” into a museum. of horrors
and attracts hordes of morons to whom she
demonstrates how the gruesome tragedy
occurred. Tlien ,her fraud .begins to affect
her own nature and character.; It is a grim
lesson to those who are disposed to gloat
over crime.
An original feature of Hell’s Boorway, by
Fred J. Thwaites’ (.Jackson, O’Sullivan and
Mortlock, Sydney; 3s. 6d.), is the gaol-life
of the hero. A warder expresses envy of
his lot:—•
“You have brains, a big heart and a certain
spirit that must win in the end. It only means
the Goddess of Opportunity leaning towards yop a
little. You know, I have an idea inside .of five
years you will be one of the big men in this State.”
The hero demurs on the ground that people
will remember the murder, but the warder
won’t have it. “Listen here, lad,” he says
with quiet assurance. “People could only
admire your courage.” The governor, who
calls him by his Christian name, is equally
optimistic and they turn out to be right.
He marries a squatter’s daughter, takes
over the management of the station from
her father and discovers he is the long-lost
son of the Loudon specialist who cured his
blindness. The author mentions that one
of his , inspirations in. writing the novel
was to “hidfig before fcllow-Aiistratians the
possibilities of the shale-oil industry at
Newnes.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will ho taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken rc contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
"Lucy L.: That track has been worn to
a rut... .11.W.U.: Let her read and work another
two years. And her ear must be tuned; some of
her rhymes are distracting. Other has merit;
hardly enough... .Arachne: Best of the lot is “Small
Fry” ; title is all wrong. “The Violet” has charm,
spoiled for us by the moralising... .M.C.: “Song of
Spring” too labored. Try something simple and
direct.... Hesperian: For you Shelley, Keats, Mase-
field, Yeats and Noyes. Good luck go with you;
and don’t lose your sincerity... .Beverley B.: To
your “Epitaph” we add an R.I.P H.F.G.: They
promise better things... .L.E.11.: Merit overlaid with
sentimentality... .Nationalist: But it’s not true that
the Irish Free State adopted the Bryce Conference’s '
idea of a Second Chamber. It is the Senate of the
North that is elected by the Lower House, with a
couple of Lord Mayors thrown in... .Elizabeth B.:
Tree buds with promise... .Nora C.: You sound
doleful where you should be sorrowful... .8.C.A.:
Lord help us, no !.... A.L.G.: Nothing to-day, but
call again... .C.C.McN.: There’s a spark of the real
fire in it; but not up to print... .Freeman: Don't
waste the idea; you haven’t made the best of it.
. ...M.L.G.: Too much butter on that “Toast.”
And it isn’t fresh butter, either.... R.McA.: Three
or four good lines in SO won’t carry a parody
through... .R. 8.: “Desolation-isolation,” “hunger-
asunder,” “horizon-derision”—get thee to a
rhyming dictionary !... .Brady’s L.: Limps badly....
J.M.L.: Malediction on the “missing rain” seems a
trifle-belated.. .A.G.J.: No substance in it.. .M.A.P.:
No, we won’t shoot. But you might have found a
rhyme to Aboriginalities... .Le G.: Almost makes us
thirsty... .C.Mc.: It’s essentially ordinary, the stuff
of w hich rejected prize poems are made; even the
diction has a musty flavor... .Picton: Not a bad
yarn, but as you tell it, it would take a column....
F.W.E.: Quite a readable skit, but what a lot of
explanation would be required to give it point!....
C.H.S.: He was an ill-informed schoolmaster if he
thought Johnson capable of that sort of skittishness.
... .K.M.C.: Of small Consequence... .W.1.M.: Would
sooner read about carpet snakes in Australia than
cobras in Kuala-Beteh .Philtre: We accepted it;
surely that was criticism enough.. . .R.G.PI.: Second
stanza won’t d 0... .E.J.S.: Too didactic... .Bittern:
A dreary waste... .E.A.8.: You tread old tracks of
thought and miss the singing leaves... .F.A.S.:
Your dancer poses overmuch. “The' circumference
of a tangible nothingness”—a girl like that’should
be in’a museum... .S.K.W.: “Mountain Peak” leaves
us c01d... .H.8.M.: Excellent so far as form goes;
but we don’t feel any lift in it. 1.G.K.: We
couldn’t tune in... .Barracouta: You mooch away
from your story too often... .D.L.W.: Nothing in it
really worth recording... .8.K.W.: Muddled and
tedious.. . .R.W.A.: “Footloose” seems just a casual
shout... .J.H.: Guard against affectation... .Robert
C. : Lacks sincerity. But a very good exercise
8.L.: The rest isn’t good enough to carry the last
clumsy stanza... .N.D.: Watch your step; you get
pretty close to bathos sometimes. In “disdaining
sips,” for instance... .8.A.J.: Loaded with false
sentiment. .. .Alison M:: Unreal; and a trifling thing,
anyway... .8.D.: Can’t be done. Best we can do is
to choose those we think the public (1) wants to
read, and (2) should read Benwarin: Hopelessly
long-winded... .J. 8.: Rubbish! Grover didn’t say
the Church objected to prize-fighting. But he knew
there are thousands of good priests who would, if
they could, dissuade youngsters of their flock from
becoming prize-fighters... .G.S.: Might interest Thes-
pian fans, but reprint is no use to us... .R.AV.A.:
Plenty of swing, not enough craftsmanship
A.G.8.: Too tinny a tinkle... .A.L.F.: It doesn’t
make the grade... .Umor: It takes some finding....
J.M.: Bridge poems are out of date... .G.F.G.: There
is a certain fatal fluency about your verse... .R.8.C.:
No demand for translations... .G.E.S.: Schoolboyisli.
. ...F.R.A.: A poor piece of work... .C.J.A.:
Exceeds our space limit by at least 4000 words....
G.C-G.: Rambling essays on ordinary topics not
required; let us have something packed with facts
and a punch P.V.F.: Shows promise; the bit
about the girl being hypnotised is far-fetched....
L. : Scrapped... .C.T.: Not as bright as you might
have made it.... J.T.K.: Small fry... .11.K.W.: Read
it in gloom D.G.S.: You’re passing through the
sentimental stage, so you’re forgiven... .J.E.M.: No
reason why girl should have stuck her head in gas-
stove, except to give author a chance to shed tears.
M.L.G.: Too many lines too obviously thrown
in for the sake of the rhymes.... Frank B.: Sorry,
can’t. “Flowers” gets nearest... .Vernon C.: Try us
with a theme not so tattered... .8.H.F.: Just words.
L.J.R.: Unplaced, but very close tip E.A.1.:
Can do nothing with them... .W.L.O’C.: 510 p....
E.R.: Four lines clamor for entrance: —
Boys and girls, join in the hike!
If yer feet get sore pinch somebody’s bike.
There's wonderful scenery and plenty o’ fun.
If the party gets rough, keep hikin’ —then run.
8.8.: Bald phrasing and cheap rhymes... .S.A.:
Saddening in its inanity. Anon: —
’Twas on the shores of Botany Bay
Four score or more of years gone by
That Captain Cook, world navigator,
Hoisted Britain’s flag on high.
Come, come, it’s eight score... .A.0.L.: You’ll never
get far up Parnassus if that’s a sample Mad
Meg: No harm done, but “Bellerive” writes seriously;
you friv01....H.8.: “Is it worth while my trying
to polish or add to the enclosed?” Emphatically, no.
. ...H.J.: With a little more care you ought to
write good light verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: Wooden R.L.: You have many months of
hard study ahead of y0u....5.T.: Three of the four
are ancient wheezes... .H.A.: Don’t let your pen get
out of hand C.8.T.: Promising for one your age,
but you must get competent instruction R.M.:
The human figure defies you.—W.G.: You have a
good free line, but a poor sense of humor B.II.:
Why do you give them heads like toy balloons ?. ...
C.S.: With self-criticism instead of self-satisfaction
you’ll get along better K.T.: Curates don’t look-
like tramps who have taken to metho. drinking
M. : Infant is drawn too big C.G.E,: Some
hope for the artist.


sf
sdf
KfS
y
p SKMtKM
MSS?!
m
iM»aaiBMMIM&4«iMBBI
: . *.
.
.. m
i U-Hi
* ' • *• * H
W«| 1
I
SH; . -'-' j ■ 1
m
B
ml
ggtfgg&B|»|
s#£ iR
IWI
mm
: FfyWP
SHHi
fl
fww
MM?
fiUHI I . %_ ..*„a»
HR:
hbhhhhhh
• •s, -. <A3»
a
v
:•
mm&
1
M
SH^t
I
H
.
is| Hi
MM
Hi
. «■««
■
.
I m
■HR ■
Ip'SwltfMSi HI S$ -'. ,
' t &
sdf
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2747.
October 5, 1932.
COMPANIONATE MARRIAGES.
“The 'agreement to differ' on which the Samuels Liberals joined the British National Emergency Government has broken down. They found that they coulo.
not accept the Protection implied by the Ottawa agreement, and Lord Snowden, Sir Herbert Samuels and Sir Archibald Sinclair have resigned.... The King has cut
short his visit to Scotland and is returning to London.— Cable.
HIS MAJESTY: “Why, gentlemen, what is the matter?”
RAMSAY MacD.: “Sir, we’ve been trying a few of those companionate marriages, and they’re not quite a success.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; >Phone BI9TI.
Victoria: llb-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, lb Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 be.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
t months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for boz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
National Song Competition closes Nov. 16.
COMMUNISM GETS BUSY.
The fight is on. The so-called Trades
Union Congress in Melbourne has declared
in favor of Communism, camouflaged as
“socialisation of the means of life and the
abolition of the wages system.” The next
step is to get control of the Federal Labor
movement. Whether that can be done
forthwith depends on the Lang party’s suc-
cess in capturing the represfentation of the
smaller States—S. Australia and Westralia
especially—at the Federal A.L.P. confer-
ence in May next. If that coup can be
brought off, the next Federal elections will
be fought on this issue—whether Australia
shall follow Russia into Bolshevism. - The
fact will, of course, not be put so plainly.
Wool will be pulled over the eyes of the
workers, and they will be thus led into the
trap. But there can be no doubt about
what it all means. The thing aimed at is
“the socialisation of the means of life 'and
the abolition of the wages system,” and
that is Communism; indeed, it goes further
than the Communism of the Russian Soviet,
which restored the wages system at the
beginning of last year in order to save the
Five-Year Plan. The workers of Australia
and all those who have hitherto given an
occasional vote to Labor must therefore
decide very shortly what they are going to
do about it. The decision is the most im-
portant they have ever been called upon to
make.
Twenty-five years ago Tom Mann told
Australian workers that they had nothing
to lose but their chains, so it would always
pay them to take a chance. As a matter of
fact, it nearly always has paid the Aus-
tralian worker to take a chance; and he has
appeared to gain so much that he has come
to leave almost everything to his union
heads. But those gentlemen have had a
reputation for astuteness which they have
not earned. The simple fact is that during
the past 25 years it has scarcely been pos-
sible for Trades Hall leaders not to win
victories. Consider what has happened else-
where—in the U.S.A., for example. In that
country unionism has never been very
strong, and political Labor has practically
had no existence. Such a thing as secur-
ing preference for unionists by legislation
is unknown. Yet in great works like those
of Henry Ford, where unionism is not
recognised and never has been, wages have
been raised much more than they have been
in Australia. In his last book Henry Ford
traced the average hour rates in his vast
American establishments since 1910. In
that year the average was (in English
money) Is. Id. By 1913 it was Is. 2d. Then
came the war and all prices began to move
up. In 1915 the Ford average was 2s. 2d.
By the end of the war it was 2s. 9d. But
still greater changes followed. In 1922 it
was up to 3s. 7d.; in 1927 it was 3s. lid.;
by the end of 1929 it had reached the dollar
—4s. 2d. per hour. “All our wage in-
creases,” Ford says, “have been voluntary;
that is, our men have never asked for a
general rise.” Yet had there been a union
in Ford’s establishments the leaders would
have been able to throw out their chests
there, too, and ask the world to applaud
what they had done for the employees.
There has not been the same rise in
Australia, but there has been a very con-
siderable rise. Between 1913 and 1920, both
inclusive, there was an increase of no less
than 435. Bd. per week in the average Aus-
tralian wage: in 1919 and 1920 alone there
was an increase of 18s. 2d. Yet during this
period there was no real gain in wages at
all, since what cost as an average £2 6s.
in 1913 cost £3 14s. sd. in 1920. Indeed,
in spite of the great apparent or nominal
rise in wages, the effective wages fell slightly
during the period, if allowance is made for
the greater unemployment. Even on a
basis of full work the average real wage
rose less than 1 p.c. in this period—on index
figures, from 975 to 982. Bringing the com-
parison down to the last fairly normal
year before the crash, though nominal wa,ges
rose 82|- p.c. between 1913 and 1928, the
real wages rose only 14 p.c.; and if unem-
ployment already showing in 1928 is taken
into account, the increase is halved—it
is reduced to a poor little 7 p.c. And that
increase was gained only at the expense
of future employment.
Thus we reach the conclusion—on official
figures, supplied by the unions themselves—
that, in spite of all the limelight which
the gentlemen of the Trades Hall have
got, and despite all the credit which Labor
politicians have taken, the Australian work-
man is not 7 p.c. better off than he was
before the .war; indeed, we could go back
25 years and show that he is not 5 p.c.
better off now than he was even then.
But it does not follow from all this that
the unions and the union officials have done
no good during this period. It may be
argued that but for unions and union offi-
cials wages might have actually shrunk.
They might; but the chances are wholly
against it. We have got to remember the
experience in the Ford works, where the
far greater rises were certainly not due to
union or political Labor influence; and
everywhere the employer is thinking on
much the same lines as Henry Ford. But
that is not to say that the union and the
union official have not their value. They
have. They are a most salutary check upon
the occasional bad employer—the man who
does not recognise that good wages and good
conditions make good service. To that
extent the good employer is benefited by
the union and the union official: they pre-
vent the unfair competition of the sweater.
But, while they have thus kept the occa-
sional poor employer up to the mark, they
have, as we have seen, not improved real
wages in 25 years more than 5 p.c.—and
that is hardly worth considering.
On that record, are the workers justified
in handing over the complete control of
their future and the future of their child-
ren to these gentlemen of the Trades Hall
to do as they please with? Had they
done really wonderful things for the
workers the latter might be right in saying,
“These people have led us into the Promised
Land. They have doubled our wages, they
have immeasurably improved our con-
ditions, they have relieved us of the old
terror of unemployment.” But they have
done none of these things: as we have seen,
the increase of wages has only just kept
pace with the increase in the cost of living,
and unemployment is more rife than ever it
was. These gentlemen, therefore, whether
of the Trades Hall or of the Labor party
in Parliament, are not demigods. They are
just ordinary human beings, and not very
successful ones at that; the rank and file
probably contains tens of thousands who
could have done a great deal better. That
being so, obviously it would be very stupid
of the workers to accept their leadership
in this new adventure without the most
searching inquiry. One thing especially
ought to be kept in mind. This system of
socialisation, as they call it, might be a
very good thing for a handful of heads and
yet a very poor thing for everybody else.
We saw a little of what might happen when
Mr. Lang was in power a few months ago
and when, as he told us, “the revolution was
on.” We saw how, even in those very
early stages of “the revolution,” people
who were in favor at the Trades Hall were
handed jobs and pay far more generous
than they had ever had before. But the
same Mr. Lang had no compunction about
collecting Is, in the £ of their pay from men
who were on the basic wage and were find-
ing it terribly hard to make ends meet.
Because, then, this so-called socialisation
might be a good thing for the Trades Hall
heads and a few men in Labor politics,
it by no means follows that it would be
a good thing for the rank and file. And, as
we have seen, these gentlemen have done
nothing for the workers which entitles them
to be accepted as super-men and demi-
gods and handed blank cheques.
THE SORROWS OF A LITTLE SISTER.
In S. Australia the Attorney-General has
introduced a bill to reduce the number of
members of the Assembly from 46 to 35 and
of the Council from 20 to 15. It is proposed
to accept the Federal division of the State
into seven electorates, each returning five
members to the Assembly under, propor-
tional representation; the Council to be
composed of five members from each of
three districts—at present there are five,
each returning four members. Local con-
troversy rages chiefly over the proposed
changes in the Leg. Council: it is even sug-
gested that, though the Assembly might
pass the measure much as Mr. Denny pre-
sented it, the Council would reject it.
There must be wide appreciation of the
effort which the central State is making
to save itself from becoming a complete
wreck. Its circumstances have been particu-
larly unfortunate. Poorly endowed by
nature, without coal or (so far as is known)
oil, and indifferently watered, with no
active mines of any size within its borders,
it nevertheless plunged prodigiously during
the post-war drunk. In 1920 S. Australia
owed 48 millions, or £99 16s. 9d. per head:
in 1930 it owed 93 millions, or £l6l 17s. sd.
per head. But this can be said in extenua-
tion : at a time when England was threatened
with a flood of unemployment, and when
a cry went out to the Dominions to help
by providing for “migrants,” the State
entered upon a programme of country de-
velopment, by railways, water conservation
and roads, far beyond its real capacity.
Had the influx of population matched the
preparations all might have been well.
Actually, while at the census on April 4,
1921, the State had 495,160 people, the
estimate at the end of 1930 was no more
than 582,127, an increase of not 18 p.c. for
the 10 years, or 1 p.c. less than the average
for the whole Commonwealth. The story of
recent years has therefore been a story of
incessant struggle, dotted with appeals to
the Commonwealth for financial help.
There had been a constant gap between
revenue and expenditure even before the
worst effects of the crisis reached us;—
Expenditure. Revenue. Surplus.
1926 .. i: 16,460,943 £10,474,094 £13,151
Deficit.
1927 . . 11,834,947 10,784,897 1,050,050
1928 .. 11,621,834 11,346,903 274,931
1929 . . 11,771,772 10,840,914 930,858
1930 . . 12,176,840 10,551,016 1,625,824
Certainly, though signals of distress were
out as early as 1926, State expenditure in
S. Australia continued to mount. But the
burden of debt-charges has to be remem-
bered. Separating these, the expenditure
per head of the various States in 1929-30
was: —
Charges Other
on Debt. Expenditure. Total.
Westralia .. £8 5 8 £l5 17 1 £24 12 9
N. S. Wales.. 5 10 10 15 10 3 21 1 1
S. Australia.. 8 8 1 12 11 7 20 19 8
Queensland . . 5 18 9 12 0 6 17 19 3
Victoria . . 4 12 0 11 8 9 16 0 9
Tasmania .. 599 826 13123
Area has a considerable influence on ex-
penditure; that factor helps to put Vic-
toria and Tasmania where they are in this
list. Comparing the others, S. Australia and
Queensland make an infinitely better show-
ing than Westralia and N. S. Wales.
And while the burden of fixed charges
and the area to be administered make low
expenditure figures difficult in S. Australia,
the very nature of the territory makes any
large and certain increase of revenue im-
possible. For the precarious year to the end
of June, 1930, it had collected from its
people £6 os. 2d. per head in taxation, as
against the £4 3s. Id. of its neighbor Vic-
toria and the £4 Bs. 7d. of its other neighbor
Westralia. Moreover, the people from
whom this was collected are a poor people:
their wheat yield averaged for 10 years
10.72 bushels against the N. S. Wales aver-
age of 12.43 and Victoria’s 13.29; their wool
production is less than 8 p.c. of the entire
Australian clip, and its value per pound is
much below the Commonwealth average;
they have 9 per cent, of the population of
Australia and barely 5 p.c. of the mineral
production.
That is the position, then, of S. Australia
—a State poor in natural resources, in deep
difficulties, and burdened with a heavy
debt which makes extrication difficult. One
supreme question faces it: How can it best
do the job of recovering itself?
A defect in our system of government,
at such a time as this, is that we cannot
call into the Ministry any man who is not
a member of Parliament, and no man can
become a member of either House without
going through a popular election. In Eng-
land, apart from the fact that Britain
has a Chamber to which any distinguished
man may be called, each party has many
safe seats, for which nomination is equiva-
lent to election. A nominee House is out
of the question here; and, anyway, its
theoretical advantages are never realised
in practice. What elective system, then,
can we use which will be most likely to give
to Parliament the type of business man
which S. Australia’s circumstances demand?
Are we more likely to get them in a
numerous Chamber than in a very small
one? The difference in actual cost matters
something, no doubt; but it is not of first
importance: the thing of first importance is
to get the right men.
The S. Australian Government pins its
faith to the large electorate; and in that it is
almost certainly right. The small electorate,
as the more populous States especially have
shown, produces the small man; and to
this type we are chiefly indebted for the
waste of millions on useless public works
and the overloading of the public services.
The man who depends for his election and his
job on his intimate knowledge of small local
circumstances and on his wide acquaintance
with the people of the district is a calamity.
On the other hand, the over-large district
is bad, too, inasmuch as it hands repre-
sentation over to the party machine. For
that reason it is very doubtful whether
the suggested three districts for the Council
are enough: there seems very little justi-
fication for disturbing the present division,
even if the number of members were re-
duced to three per district. But 15
members are too few. Experience has
not shown what is the perfect proportion
between the two Chambers. The House of
Commons has 615 members; the House of
Lords a voting strength of 720. In North-
ern Ireland the proportion is two to one;
in the Free State 2\ to one; in South
Africa 148 to 40; in Canada 245 to a maxi-
mum of 104; in our own Federal Parliament
76 to 36. On those figures, excluding those
of Britain, the suggested proportion of 35
to 15 strikes somewhere near an average.
But there is no First Chamber in the
list with so few as 35 members; if there
were we should probably find that the pro-
portion had been stretched to allow the
Second Chamber a strength of 20 members
at least. It is very doubtful whether any
State’s legislative body ought to function
with fewer than that.
Hitherto a weak point under most sys-
tems of proportional representation has
been the filling of casual vacancies. Obvi-
ously there cannot be a popular election for
the purpose, inasmuch as the member
causing the vacancy may have been the
representative of a minority. The Nor-
wegian system has much to recommend it:
in addition to the actual members, deputy
members are elected who will take the
place of those who fall ill, die or are per-
mitted by the Parliament to temporarily
retire. The method looks complicated; but
it has worked well in Norway, which shows
no disposition whatever to change it.
MANCHUKUO AND OTHER THINGS.
China protested vigorously over the
Japanese recognition of Manchukuo, which
is a prelude to its annexation; but she
could not do much more because she has
not the power, and over one-fifth of her
remaining territory is out of her control
and in the hands of Communists. Still, she
and the Manchurians will continue to
worry Japan as much as possible, aided and
abetted by American commercial interests
and Soviet imperialists. It would be a good
moral maxim that no one nation has the
right to arrogate to itself an authority over
another backward country if there is an
international authority to do the job; but
the League of Nations is not yet that
authority. Its decisions have to be unani-
mous, which means that no member nation
has really agreed to limit its national sove-
reignty.
It has been claimed that if every nation
became Communist the reign of interna-
tionalism would begin. But Communistic
nations would be even more inclined to go
to war for the raw material they needed
than capitalistic ones, because the fight
would then appear to be in the national
interest and not in the interest of a few
capitalists. Even in peace-time this pro-
cess is seen to be at work. The Soviet
recently concluded an arrangement with
capitalistic oil interests to raise the price
of oil, which sprang threepence a gallon in
Britain in consequence.
There is a tendency for finance to be-
come international, regardless of so-called
Communism or anything else, since the
greater always tends to assimilate the
lesser, and the will to power is a biological
reality, even stronger than the love of cash.
If world finance should ever get into the
hands of a few individuals, call them what
you please, and those individuals agreed
to pool their interests for a time, they
might grab the League of Nations or set
up a league of their own. As they would
have the most money they could own the
strongest air fleet and bankrupt or blow
up any nation that dared oppose their will;
so they would then be able to inaugurate
the reign of universal peace. Of course,
before this could happen there would have
to be a number of wars. Russia would
have to go to war with Japan over China
and America would have to fight the suc-
cessful but weakened belligerent. The
U.S.A. appears to be the next Power which
will make a bid for world dominance, the
same as Genghis Khan, Alexander the
Great, Leo the Isaurian, Charles Martel,
Napoleon and William Hohenzollem. It
is practically self-supporting, or could be
with a scientific economic system, has the
largest white population, with the highest
industrial efficiency, and from a military
point of view is practically impregnable.
The United States of Europe is at present
merely a pious hope, and it is not likely
to become a reality before its various
constituents are completely enslaved, like
Germany, to American finance. Before the
final conflict U.S.A. will be found to be
dominating America and the Pacific, Russia
dominating Asia, and Europe making the
most of, or fighting over, Africa. If civili-
sation hasn’t collapsed entirely, every
country, as a result of its wars, will have
piled up an enormous external debt, and
will be owing and receiving indemnities,
the financing of which will fall into fewer
and fewer hands.
A League of Financiers will then be in a
position to set up a real World State and
manage it in a manner to suit themselves.
This will probably take the form of running
the universe as a single factory unit. Popu-
lations will be shifted to and fro in accord-
ance with labor requirements, as the
Romans shifted the barbarian tribes. The
birth rate will be regulated to provide a
maximum number of simple-minded
workers and a few intelligent people to act
as well-paid overseers. Scientific planning,
such as is now being proposed everywhere,
will be the order of the day, but it
will be science adapted to factory require-
ments, and scientists who try to go further
in their researches will be transported to
a desert area surrounded by an electrified
fence. The White Australia policy will only
be tolerated if it is found, after careful
investigation, that white Australians can
produce more wealth than Chinamen.
Everybody will be made infinitely more
comfortable than we are to-day, and
religion will be frowned on as it might
lead to people imagining there was a Better
World. The scale of living in every country
will be standardised, so there will no occa-
sion for envy of other people’s lot. Travel
will only be undertaken for exercise, be-
cause every country will be like every other
country, and every member of the World
State will wear the same clothes, have the
same amusements and think the same
thoughts as everybody else. The only
revolutions will be palace revolutions
amongst the financiers in control, and they
will have no more effect on the World State
at large than similar palace revolutions had
on the empire of Caligula.
This happy state of affairs will continue
until people get bored and prefer misery
and independence to comfort and servi-
tude, Then they will rise and risk being
blown up by their benefactors, like the
inhabitants of Manchukuo.
FENG-SHUL


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Queensland Budget.
Fobgan Smith’s Budget is no better and
no worse than Queensland had reason to
expect. When the other side is in office,
nobody knows better than the Labor poli-
tician that there is appalling waste of public
money; when the other side is thrown back
and Labor comes in, nobody is less disposed
to cut out the waste. The chief of Queens-
land’s own statistical bureau showed
recently that the Queenslander paid more of
his earnings in income and unemployment
taxes than the citizen of any other State
except N. S. Wales, and, if he had an income
of £lOOO a year, more even than the citizen
of N. S. Wales. If he had £2OOO a yea!,
then, besides meeting all the assessments
of the Federal Commissioner, he was bled
by the local taxgatherer for 13.3 p.c. of his
income as against 10.3 p.c. in N. S. Wales,
5.2 p.c. in Westralia and 8.1 p.c. in Victoria.
Yet, though Queensland has been thus
penalising the higher incomes far more
heavily than any other State, Forgan Smith
can see no way of reducing his deficit
to the neighborhood of the £1,490,000 to
which he had undertaken to bring it other
than the way of further taxation. Without
any Government action, the deficit would be
£2,755,000, according to present estimate.
To cut that down by the necessary
£1,265,000, the Government proposes to
reduce expenditure by no more than
£220,000, throwing the responsibility for the
other £1,045,000 upon the harassed taxpayer
through increased income tax and a re-
imposed super land tax and by raiding the
Main Roads Fund.
The deficits of the past three years
amount to £4,339,000, and most of it is just
a floating debt. When Forgan Smith’s
unpaid bills are added to the heap, there
will be nearly six millions of debt for which
there will be not a single thing to show.
We are being good fellows with all sorts
of people, especially public servants and
pensioners, and we are making the next
generation pay for it. Or, rather, we are
passing the bill on to the next generation.
We say that the bills which our fathers
have passed on to us are too heavy and
we cannot meet them; therefore we pass
them on to the next generation with some
of our own as well. Let there be no mistake
about it: we are making it almost impos-
sible for the next generation to avoid
default.
Queensland Labor Government supporters
will of course plead that at any rate they
are not responsible for past deficits—that
the sins of the last three years are the sins
of the Moore Government. But. as in all
such cases, this is only half true. If the
country could have been assured that
Forgan Smith and his party would keep
expenditure within revenue, as any honest
man is expected to do, Moore and his party
might not have hesitated to do the same
thing. To that extent no one party is
wholly responsible for a Government’s
debts. Every Opposition must bear its
share of the blame for deficits so long as
this unholy competition for office lasts.
4
Compromise.
It says something for Ottawa that the ex-
tremists at both ends of the earth have
taken offence at its conclusions. In Britain
a group of Liberal Ministers refuse to give
any countenance to the Protection which
the agreements incorporate; in Australia at
least one member of the Federal Govern-
ment has been in grave doubt whether the
agreements do not undermine his policy of
High Protection.
We live in an age of compromise; and
probably what has already been done in that
way is little compared with what may
have to be done. When the war came to
an end we were going to “make Germany
pay to the uttermost farthing.” We soon
found out that it was impossible: we know
now that, since Germany had no gold to
speak of, all it could tender was goods, and
if it unloaded goods upon its creditors they
would themselves be unable to find work
for their own unemplojmd or pay their
own overseas debts. We had therefore to
reach a great compromise over that, just
as the U.S.A. had to fashion the Hoover
Moratorium for the relief of debtor
nations. Britain, after restoring gold to its
old place in the currency, was compelled
to abandon it; and at the same time the
nation’s Freetrade policy had to go, too.
Meantime, in this world-shipwreck almost
every other nation in Europe had been
driven to do something which it had said
it never would do. In most cases the some-
thing took the form either of currency
depreciation or of protective barriers or
both. We in Australia—probably like
almost every other unit among the nations
—have fought for our own hand without
the smallest regard for others. We have
depreciated our currency through the ex-
change, thus in effect heavily bonusing our
exports at the expense of our imports.
The result, of course, has been that we
have put our export goods into foreign
countries dt fictitious prices; in other words,
we have been able to sell them at less than
the cost of production. In the case of
wheat, for example, this has meant unfair
competition for the growers in Italy or
France or wherever our grain has been
landed; so they have been driven to put
up barriers against our wheat—as we show
elsewhere, wheat costs over 6s. a bushel in
both Italy and France. Turn where we
will we thus find barriers against us. Even
our wool meets a closed door in. some
places: the U.S.A. last year took only
1 p.c. of our entire clip.
It was in such circumstances. that the
Ottawa Conference was held: if it was not
possible to bring about a better under-
standing among all the nations, it was worth
trying to bring one about among the British
Commonwealth of Nations. But it was not
possible to do that without compromise.
This, however, does not necessarily mean loss.
A little may be yielded in order to make
an enormous gain. A few years ago two old
and highly-reputable life-assurance offices,
finding new business hard to get and over-
head heavy, decided to allow themselves to
be merged into a younger and more vigorous
office, . Much had to be given away: one
director said it had been as though he had
been cutting an old friend’s throat. To-
day the policy-holders are getting bonuses
three times greater than they had received
before the absorption, with all its com-
promises and concessions.
Freetrade and High Protection are both
excellent policies so long as the other people
will play the game as we want it played.
The trouble is that they are always liable
to do the other thing. Britain offered her
markets to the world, and found that,
while others took their chance, none offered
her one. In self-protection she had to close
her doors. Australia had High Protection,
and in the emergency made it higher still.
She had great foreign debts to pay, and had
to sell goods abroad to do it —and faces a
world which, so far as her products are con-
cerned, has largely adopted a policy of
High Protection, too. It is a situation
common to all the world. It will be righted
in time, whether gradually, a little here and
a little there—as at Ottawa—or in one
grand stroke at a world conference, nobody
knows. But whether it is done by whole-
sale or by retail it will have to be done by
negotiation; and the sooner we cease to
shudder at the thought of compromise the
sooner will our troubles be over.
4
N. S. Wales Farmers’ Relief.
N. S. Wales Assistant-Treasurer Spooner’s
Farmers’ Relief Bill is better legislation
than it was in its first draft and as it seemed
at the first rushed Parliamentary reading.
There is great need to save farmers from
bankruptcy, and the existing Moratorium is
not adequate. Quite rightly, the distressed
cocky who looks for relief under the Act
will be compelled to live frugally, and,
where he has made unwise use of his money
in the past, and is likely to do so again,
expenses will be strictly supervised. In
any case, the receiver will control all in-
come and outgo, the latter including a
sustenance allowance to the farmer and his
family, and pin-money not exceeding £75
p.a. But, where the farmer is the best man
for the job, his management of the property
will not be otherwise interfered with.
Either the farmer or a creditor may
apply for a “stay-order” (which stops pro-
ceedings taken by other creditors); where
one is granted it will normally run for three
years, after which, unless an extension is
granted, the position reverts practically to
that which existed prior to the issue of the
order. A distressed farmer must come into
the scheme voluntarily; if he doesn’t like
the idea of receivers or the Act generally
he needn’t have anything to do with them.
But once he has made his mind up that
way he will have to take his chance under
the Moratorium, and will not afterwards be
allowed to shelter under the new legislation.
A stay-order will not be granted where
the farmer can manage without it. Where
one is granted, the farm’s assets will be
valued; if encumbered, the mortgages will
be treated as secured only to the extent of
the value placed on the particular assets
pledged. The balance will be suspended,
and will not carry interest while the order
is in force. Interest on the secured por-
tion will not exceed 5 p.c. Unsecured lia-
bilities and the suspended portion of the
secured debts will then be added together.
Say they come to £3OOO, against which there
are assets valued at only £2OOO (in other
words, the farmer is insolvent). In such
a case 2000/3000ths of each debt would
be termed “conditioned,” and the remainder,
not represented by assets, unsecured. The
conditioned creditors receive preferential
treatment over the unsecureds, but in prac-
tice this preference is merely one between
Peter and Paul.
The Act will mean another board, con-
sisting of a director and a farmers’ and a
creditors’ representative; but Spooner be-
lieves that he will thus be able to abolish
the unwieldy Rural Industries. Branch and
actually make a saving. Receivers will be
mostly professional men, and a farmer may
select one from outside his district if he
wishes. The estimate of a receiver’s annual
remuneration per farm is put at £2O to £3O
on the average.
No provision is made for the writing-
down of liabilities, but the Act will do
this much, besides sraying proceedings:
while it operates it reduces the rate of
mortgage interest to 5 p.c., and that is pay-
able only on whatever part of the principal
is represented by assets at present-day
values. Where finance is required for plant-
ing or harvesting, the board may provide
it, too. The framing of the measure shows
both knowledge and svmpathy.
4
The War Against Malaria.
Dear Bulletin, —Tremendous as. were the
services rendered by the late Sir Ronald
Ross to humanity (B. 28/9/’32), it should
be remembered that there were kings be-
fore Agamemnon. Australia can claim
at least one of them in the late Dr. Peter
Bancroft, of Brisbane. Over 60 years ago
Dr. Bancroft, already notable for his re-
searches into sugar-cane diseases, advanced
the theory that many tropical diseases were
mosquito-bome, including malaria. He
showed in his own person that another
terrible scourge, Filariasis, was conveyed to
human beings by mosquito agency, and
was probably the first man to actually prove
the mosquito-infection theory about which
others were groping. Years later Carlos
Findlay, the Cuban-Scot, took the same
heroic means of proving that yellow fever
was conveyed by Stegomyia fcisciata, a
mosquito common in Australia, where its
stripes have earned it the nickname of the
“tiger.” Findlay’s work was carried on
later by a party of five doctors in Havana,
two of them American. These allowed
themselves to be inoculated by the yellow-
fever mosquito, three of them dying. A
magnificent monument in Havana com-
memorates their heroism.
To Bancroft the elder succeeded an able
son. He, in his turn, has made two highly
important discoveries in connection, with
tropical diseases. One is the method by
which the hookworm parasite enters the
body of its human host. The other is the
identification of the “tiger” mosquito
already referred to as the carrier of the
dengue fever which, if not so persistently
deadly as malaria, is accompanied by much
more pain, and leaves many dangerous
sequelce. Both the Bancrofts rank high in
the hierarchy of scientific research. Out-
side their own State it is safe to say that
not one in a hundred thousand of their
fellow Australians has ever heard their
names or has any appreciation of the work
they have done. —Yours, J. B. H.
♦
Catching ’Em Young.
Following the birth of Labor and U.A.P.
bodies among the' students at Sydney Uni-
versity a U.C.P. centre has been formed;
and it is well understood that there is a
strong Communist nucleus also on the
premises. All this has been widely wel-
comed as a sign of the awakening of youth
to its civic responsibilities. Once more The
Bulletin finds itself little disposed to join
in the chorus. What ive do greatly need is
a spirit of inquiry; and if these new bodies
will cultivate that spirit, well and good.
But it is much more likely that they will
get young men to declare _ themselves _ en-
thusiastic supporters of this or that ism,
adherents of this or that political party,
not because study has led them to a con-
clusion, but because of sympathy or what
looks like self-interest, or because dad
thought this, wherefore with some youths
this must be right or with other youths it
must inevitably be wrong. Again and
again we have seen in the public life of
this country the results of these premature
avowals. In some cases the men have spent
their years searching for things to justify
themselves; instead of reaching their ver-
dict on evidence they have first adopted
a verdict and then attempted to sustain
the verdict by accepting only that evidence
which suited the purpose. In other cases
they have in some crisis or other decided
that they could no longer give support to
a cause in which they never really believed
or in which they long since ceased to be-
lieve—the public life of Australia is close
packed with such men. from the first days
of the Labor party until this moment.
Of course it is not necessary to look only
among University men to find people like
that: unfortunately they are everywhere.
Which leads to the suggestion that perhaps
good citizenship would say that we do far
too much to catch ’em young and put a
brand upon them.
♦
War and Wheat.
Interesting results are to be got from a
study of the movements of in
the 10 years that followed the Great War.
In almost every case the countries to show
impressive increases were those which
offered or seemed to offer large opportuni-
ties for the farmer, the planter and the pros-
pector; and the more remote the territory
the stronger its attractions. Thus, accord-
ing to statistics collected by the League of
Nations, and published in a recent economic
survey, British Columbia, on the Pacific
coast, showed a high rate of increase among
the provinces of Canada; and in the U.S.A.
California, also as far west as the young
man of New York or Chicago can go, added
nearly 66 p.c. within the 10 years, as com-
pared with the republic’s average of 16 p.c.
The population of British Malaya increased
by 31 p.c.; and, while already heavily-
peopled Java added but 19 p.c., Dutch Borneo
and Celebes each put on 36 p.c. In the
same way, though the Philippines added
but 16 p.c., the more glamorous Hawaiian
islands—both groups under the control of
the U.S.A. —added no less than 42 p.c. In
S. Africa Rhodesia grew faster than the
older States of the Union; the Argentine
gained 31 p.c.; and, though Australia showed
an increase of no more than 19 p.c. —being
among the neither very great nor very small
gainers—there was a considerable spread of
population to North Queensland and the
remoter parts of the other States. It is
interesting, too, to observe that the flow
out into the open and far afield did not
occur only in those countries whose people
were actually engaged in the,war. Sweden,
for example, lost so many by emigration
that its net gain was only 4 p.c.
The movement was no doubt mainly psy-
chological. The war made city youth im-
patient of the restraints of the office and
the factory, and for the most - part they
turned to those open-air jobs which seemed
•—often quite wrongly—to be within their
capacity. This movement, especially in the
new countries, added to a vast expansion of
credit and the mechanisation of the farms,
was the most important factor in produc-
ing that glut of wheat from which the
world is suffering to-day—and Australia
more than most. Between 1909 and 1913
the average annual wheat export from
Canada was 20,152,000 quintals; from 1926
to 1930 the average was 70,051,000 quintals.
The Argentine in the same period had in-
creased its exports from 24 to 40 million
quintals, Australia from 11 to 17 and the
U.S.A. from 14 to 27 millions.
Meantime another interesting movement
was taking place or, as we shall see, prob-
ably the same movement in another form.
In thickly-populated Western Europe there
was a rapid drift from the country to the
towns. Berlin and Hamburg have grown
out of all proportion to the rest of Ger-
many. In Britain, France, Italy and Spain
there has been rural depopulation; almost
every county in Scotland and Wales has
lost population; and, while the increase for
all England has been 6 p.c., several counties
around London show a growth of 20 p.c.
While war made some impatient of the re-
straint of the city office or workshop and
drove them into the open, it made others
impatient of the farm or country village in
which they had grown up. War, in fact,
simply shook all our foundations, making
us for the time being discontented with
the life we had lived, whatever it was. So
while we had on the one side the great
movement out west or into the north, we
had also the drift into the cities. And so
far as Western Europe is concerned, that
was hastened and presently intensified by
the competition of the new producers in
other lands. A table compiled by the
League of Nations’ Intelligence Service
seems to illustrate this point, though it was
prepared to emphasise another. In January
of this year wheat was worth Is. lOd. per
bushel in the Argentine, 2s. 1-kl. in Canada
and 2s. sd. in Chicago. But in Germany
it was still 6s. Id., in Italy 6s. 3d. and in
France 7s. sd. Though such prices are
only maintained by import restrictions, most
of them of recent origin, they show broadly,
nevertheless, the figures at which in those
countries wheat can be grown.
4
England and the Free State.
P. S. Cleary puts the case for the Free
State: —
The Bulletin states the case for England
(28/9/’32) : “The Free State contracted to
pay Royal Irish Constabulary and Civil
Service pensions and sinking fund charges in
respect of local government loans granted by
the Oppressor, in consideration of being re-
lieved of responsibility for the Great War
debt. All this money, as well as land-pur-
chase annuities, is being ‘retained’ by the
Do Valera Government.’’ We say that the
Free State did not contract to do anything
of the kind
(«.) Clause 5. of the 1921 Anglo-Irish
Treaty (officially called “Articles ot Agree-
ment for a Treaty between Great Britain and
Ireland”) reads: —-
The Irish Free State shall assume liability for
the'Service of the Public Debt of the United Kingdom
as existing at the date hereof and towards the
payment of war pensions as existing at that date
in' such proportion as may he fair and eqtiitab'e,
having, regard to any just claims on the part of
Ireland by way of set-off or counter-claim.
Such sums were to be determined by arbi-
tration. Clause 10 excluded tlie Royal Irish
Constabulary from the Civil Service pen-
sions which the Free State contracted to
pay.
(b) Tlie interest on Irish loans for land-
purchase or otherwise were paid out of the
British Consolidated Revenue, and the loans,
up to 1921, were included in the annual
summaries of tlie British National Debt.
(e) The arbitration mentioned in Clause
5 of the Treaty took place in 1925, after
the failure of the Boundary Commission.
England presented a bill for £130,000,000,
being her estimate of the proportion of
National Debt due by the Free State under
the Treaty. Ireland’s counter-claim was for
£300,000,000. A British Royal Commission
(1894), presided over by H. C. E, Childers,
formerly Chancellor of the Exchequer, and
containing only three Irish Nationalists in
13 members, found that Ireland had been
overtaxed at the average rate of £3,000,000
a year since the Union (1800). Lord Mae-
Donnell. Irish Under-Secretary iu 1911.
estimated the total to be then £359.000,000.
The figures do not matter, as on December
3, 1925, a document entitled “Agreement
amending and supplementing tlie Articles of
Agreement for a Treaty” was signed by Mr.
Baldwin, Mr. Churchill, Mr. Joynson Hicks,
Lord Birkenhead and Mr. Amery, represent-
ing the British Government; Mr. Cosgrave,
Mr. Kevin O’Higgins and Mr. Ernest Blythe,
representing the Saorstat; Sir .Tames Craig
and Mr. C. H. Blackmore, representing
Northern Ireland. Clause 2 reads: “The
Irish Free State is hereby released from
obligation under Article 5 of the said Articles
of Agreement to assume the liability therein
mentioned.” That compact was ratified by
the Irish Free State Parliament and the
British Parliament.
The cause of all the 1 rouble is a docu-
ment signed by Mr. Winston Churchill and
Mr. Ernest Blythe, three months later
(March 26, 1926), entitled Heads of the
Ultimate Financial Settlement between the
British Government and the Irish I ree
State.” Note that it does not purport to
he an agreement, but, Heads of an Agi ee-
ment” In it tlie Cosgrave Government
agreed to pay the land annuities and pen-
sions. It was not placed before either the
British or the Irish Parliament. In fact,
its existence was not known until it was
dug out of a departmental pigeonhole when
the De Valera Government assumed office.
Can you wonder that Mr. Thomas prefers
“negotiation” to “arbitration .


i®:
“ Fve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN “X
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
An astounding change has come over the
face of things during the past few months.
A year ago, when Lang was running amok in
N. S. Wales, N. S. Wales 34 p.c. stocks in
London were ouoted at 44. That is to say,
the best price one who had lent £lOO to the
N. S. Wales Government at 34 p.c. could get
for his scrip was £44. This week a 34 p.c.
N.S.W. conversion loan of 13 millions has
been issued at 974. A year ago the State’s
credit was so low that investors wanted 8 p.c.
on its securities; to-day they are satisfied
with a shade over 4 p.c. The loan now issued
has five years to run. Allowing for repay-
ment at par it works out at about £4 Is. Bd.
p.c. If we had been obliged to convert at
8 p.c. it would have cost us half a million
a year more —on this one small loan.
The N.S.W. Government had the bad luck
to put its lightweight, Waterspout Weaver,
in charge of hospitals and so of the lottery
which helps to keep them going. If Weaver
lvad swallowed the State’s two-up school
merely for the sake of the impoverished hos-
pitals he might have been forgiven; instead
he defends the wretched thing, apparently
for no better reason than that a big mob of
Weaver (arriving for Cabinet meeting ):
“Top o’ the morning to you, sports!
How about headin’ ’em for a dollar
before we start?”
voters favor it —just as they also favor put-
ting the boot into a John every time they
get a chance. The Bulletin isn’t much
concerned about the morals of the business;
what it is concerned about is that the State’s
two-up school merely adds to the pack of
parasites fastened on the community at a
time when it is loaded up to the neck, and
doesn’t produce so much as a cabbage.
In 1928-29 Queensland’s income tax
brought in £2 12s. 7d. per head of popula-
tion ; there has been such an almighty
crash in earnings that last year’s tax came
to only £1 14s. 9d. per head, although mean-
time the rate had been put up in some cases.
The Government is meeting the loss not by
carving down expenses, but by carving larger
slices out of cos.’ profits and fatter private
incomes. Railway revenue dropped £490,465
below the previous year’s shrunk figure ; and
that is to be met by the increase of fares
and freights lately put into operation. The
super land-tax is also to be reimposed. Evi-
dently there are still some people who believe
that the best way to put ginger into a man
is to bleed him to death.
Payment of the gold bonus has been sus-
pended as from Sept. 30, but is to be re-
stored if, during the next eight years, the
Melbourne Mint price falls below £5 10s.
per fine ounce. It was originally promised
for ten years, and the Senate, at Colebatch’s
instance, carried an amendment that it
should be paid for ten years, suspended
periods not to count. “Unconstitutional,”
said Latham, the Attorney-General, and the
House accepted his view of it, and so did
the Senate, though very reluctantly. In
fact, Senators left Canberra resentful, as
well as weary, after a 30-hour sitting, during
which E. B. Johnston denounced the Gov-
ernment as “bushrangers.”
The U.A.P. and the Cockies are pulling
together admirably in N.S.W., but not in
Victoria. There each group has put up a
candidate for the Benambra by-election, and
the Financial Emergency Bill introduced by
Attorney-General Menzies has become an
issue. The Cockies protest that it doesn’t
go nearly far enough in the direction of
helping mortgagors. Menzies replies that lie
will resign rather than give way. So Vic-
toria finds itself with another “Ministerial
crisis” on hand; it thought it had done with
the plaguey things for three years at least.
It looks as if the Waterside Workers’
Federation is breaking up. Arbitration
Judge Beeby, whom its bosses defied on a
memorable occasion, lias been asked by them
to “discipline” many of those whom they
then ordered to strike against the “vicious
and pernicious Beeby award.” Fremantle,
Cairns and Geelong branches were specially
mentioned; tlfe Sydney branch, it was
said, had been “disciplined” without reference
to the Court. The Westralian lumpers seem
definitely lost to the W.W.F. They have
been dragged, more or less unwillingly, into
all its crazy strikes and they now feel that
the disadvantages of belonging to the expen-
sive show outweigh the advantages, if any.
Along with the demand for equality in
armaments, Hans is reviving the claim to
equality in colonies. He wants South-West
Africa, the. Cameroons, New Guinea, the
Carolines and part of Samoa back, though
no mention is made of Tsingtao. It is
alleged that without these countries German
industry is in danger of strangulation. But
Germany’s trade with its colonies was never
more than 2 p.c. of its total international
business.
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation engaged A.
B. Piddington to put the case for the mar-
ried-women teachers at the bar of the Leg.
Council. “Piddo” had an encouraging audience,
about 70 strong, and quoted the Real Pro-
perty Act, the Testators’ Family Mainten-
ance Act, the Mortgages Taxation Bill and
other measures; referred to breacli-of-pro-
mise cases, companionate marriage, mater-
nity and the position of women in Russia;
and mentioned, among other historical char-
acters, the vestal virgins and Henry the
Eighth. After two hours and a half of
it, all but a dozen hardy souls had had
enough, but “Piddo” was still plugging on.
Of course, the S.A. Parliamentary Com-
mittee which considered the bill dealing with
stored wheat couldn’t agree; but something
certainly ought to be done to clean up the
mess. The practice is for farmers who don’t
wish to sell outright to store with well-
known buyers, who generally make an
advance. One firm advanced too much and
broke; and then those who had storage cer-
tificates found they came in only as credi-
tors. If that was the law at the time —
as it seems to have been —it would be quite'
improper to make an amendment retrospec-
tive : it might amount to a fraud on other
creditors, who may have given credit be-
cause the law stood that way. But the law
should not stand that way any longer.
Balancing the A’ic. Budget, Auditor-
General Norris says, would be a simple
matter if it wasn’t for Government-owner-
ship schemes and the like, for which all the
parties are responsible. Interest on State-
directed “activities” (railways, land settle-
ment, country water supply and electricity)
aggregated £7,519.951 last year, and the
“activities” contributed only £4,461,915 to-
wards paying the bill. “Other receipts” and
taxation supplied £1.449.714. The remain-
ing £1,608,322 was called a deficit, and has
been added to the State debt.
“For the last month Minister Fenton has been
considering his position with regard to what Mel-
bourne ‘Age’ calls ‘the tariff-slashing campaign.'”
“I’ll stay here as long as I like; and none
of your shoving.”
Australian graziers and farmers who are
being told that Customs duties are respon-
sible for high prices of the things the man
on the land has to buy ought to turn up
the price-lists of countries that have no
duties worth mentioning. In happy Argen-
tine a 10ft. header-harvester, engine-func-
tioned, American made, costs £495; same
thing, Australian made, in Melbourne,
£338 ls. Bd. A double-furrow mouldboard
plough in Argentine costs £34 11s. 6d.; in
Melbourne, £2O 13s. 3d. About the only
two things in the average agricultural outfit
which cost more in Melbourne are the
mower and the disc drill, and the difference
there in favor of the Argentine is only a
few shillings. As for wire, over the price
of which gallons of tears have been wept in
Australia, local price is £l4 12s. 6d. for
biack No. 8 gauge; Argentine price, £l7.
And there is more in our favor than that
on galvanised.
Spooner, the very experienced accountant
who was put into the N.S.W. Ministry to
help Stevens, was in charge of his first big
bill in the N.S.W. Assembly the other day;
and, though its purpose was to help dis-
“Don’t put that on the line. It’ll wreck
the train.”
“Well, if they didn’t want the train
wrecked, they shouldn’t have turned
our cobbers off the engine.”
tressed farmers, Lang and other old Par-
liamentary hands of the Labor party laid
themselves out to baulk him by using, all
the tricks of the House. They spoiled his
second-reading speech ; and when the bill
got into committee they pushed a point of
order under his nose every three minutes.
How long is it to be before the public rebels
against this sort of thing? As the Oppo-
sition now' looks at it, its job is not to
improve legislation by criticism; it is to
stop the Government from legislating—and
blow the public!
In 3923-24 Queensland woolgrowers paid
£725,400 in State tax on income assessed at
£4,893,800, contributing 35.2 p.c. of the
income-tax revenue. Last year those with
taxable income—6s6, as against 1181 in
1923-24—paid £31,095 on £437,300 = 2.75
p.c. of the total. Canberra figures are not
available, but the slump in Commonwealth
tax paid by Queensland woolgrowers must
have been greater still, since the Common-
wealth exemption is £250 and Queensland’s
£l5O. And taking land prices into con-
sideration, it is very probable that the tax-
paying capacity of N.S.W. and Yic. sheep-
men has suffered even more than that of
their Queensland brethren. Since the war
our politicians have performed as if graziers
could always be depended upon to pay a
great part of the taxes and sky-high freight-
rates. Many 0 f them still can’t realise that
this comfortable theory has crashed.
Lawyers were conspicuous in the mobs
that shouted “Lang is Right.” Immense
sums have been distributed among members
of their profession in proving that Lang
was Wrong. The boss-blunderer thought the
Leg. Council could be abolished by vote of
the Leg. Assembly ; the Privy Council de-
cided against him at a cost to the taxpayers
of £5OOO. He imagined that he could de-
fault in payment of interest on N.S.W. debts
taken over by the Commonwealth' without
incurring penalties; the High Court brushed
the contention aside, and the price of his
folly to N. S. Wales (the Bar’s fat fees
were perhaps the smallest part of it) can
only be guessed at. His Moratorium Act was
pronounced unintelligible by a Judge who
had to interpret it. Now the Lang-appointed
Street, J., has found a fatal flaw m Lang’s
Ejectments Postponement Act, and the hated
Stevens will have to make it workable.
Groom. M.H.R., was a member of the
Government which introduced old-age pen-
sions and fixed the maximum rate at 10s.
a week. “This was chosen,” he says, “be-
cause it was the sum that Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria could afford to pay—
they had gone through hard times and were
just recovering.” Now, after, three depres-
sion years which have been a much tiaore
gruelling experience (especially to Groom’s
grazier constituents) than the “hard times”
preceding the introduction of pensions, and
with the pensions bill increased - from two
millions to eleven, Groom insists that main-
tenance of the maximum rate at 17s. 6d. a
week is “a principle” and enforcement of
filial responsibilities is “improper.” Ability
to pay, which determined the rate in 1908.
must not determine it in 1932, Groom having
become a flabby old politician dependent on
Labor votes.
Things are getting cheaper, though Trades
Hall blatherskites deny it till they are black
in the face. In Sydney at the week-end you
could get a shoulder of mutton for eight-
pence, a forequarter for a shilling and eight
lamb cutlets for sixpence; and good meat,
too. Potatoes are 16 pounds a shilling;
eggs a shilling a dozen; the old “three-
course-meal-for-sixpencc” sign is back again,
and so —in places—are the threepenny shave
and the sixpenny haircut. Tram and ferry
fares and gas charges have come down;
prices of hats, boots and suits of clothes
have been reduced considerably. With a
bit off the relief tax as well (relief workers,
from whom Lang took Is. in the £, are
exempt altogether), the man on the basic
wage is probably getting as much for his
£3 12s. 6d. as ho could get for £4 2s. 6d.
12 months ago; and the man on the dole
has a better chance of getting a job.
With unfeigned delight Adelaide learned
that the Lang “party” had split once more
—on “the unity issue” this time. Garden
and “Plugger” Martin made the trip from
Sydney to promote “unity,” and asked the
.State A.L.P. conference to readmit all the
Langsters they could collect, “with con-
tinuity of membership.” The conference
was willing, except as to gentlemen “ex-
cluded by special resolution”; and Oollaton,
who was elected for Adelaide as a Langster
Assemblyman (to find in a few months that
his signed but undated resignation had, with-
out his consent, been handed to the Speaker,
who refused to accept it), was admitted to
the A.L.P. Parliamentary caucus. O’Flah-
erty, president of “the Lang A.L.P.,” also
joined the A.L.P. proper, as likewise did
several members of his show and of “the
Lang Labor party.” But the bosses of “the
Lang Labor party” couldn’t or wouldn’t
follow. Lang’s brother-in-law McNamara
has gone to Adelaide to help them “fight
the junta A.L.P.,” and Beasley and Ward,
M’s.II.R., are expected any day. In Adel-
aide, as in Sydney, Langism runs true to
form.
“Und dot’s you as you looked vunce, hein?
You dear leedle old shentlemans, I can
scarcely pelieve id!”
Prof. Harvey Sutton told a conference of
health inspectors the other day that Sydney
—though no worse off than other huge areas
—is a vast rattery; “we have as many rats
as human beings.” And bubonic plague is
borne by rats, which in any case do im-
mense damage to stored goods and pro-
perty. Also* with the improvement in
means of transport “yellow fever has be-
come a very definite menace to Australia.”
Once it reaches a place it spreads like wild-
fire and “kills 40 per. cent, of those in-
fected” ; moreover, it is “carried by the
same mosquito as dengue,” of which Queens-
land and northern N. S. Wales have had
very unpleasant experiences. In all the big
centres of population relief workers can bo
seen shifting sand, pottering about foot-
paths, furbishing up recreation grounds and
the like. It would be sound policy to cut
out all - such footling jobs, which have no
economic value, and spend the money on
rat- and mosquito-destruction.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
SOMETHING LIKE PROGRESS.
WIFE: “What next, I wonder!” {Reading) “‘In Hungary rubber horse-shoes are now
used.’ ”
HUSBAND : “I wish they’d make some of our damn jockeys use rubber reins.”
“D.”: Billy Hughes is Australia’s greatest
platitude-monger. At Geneva he told the
League of Nations that the world was “seeth-
ing with industrial unrest” and that it (the
League) would have to do something about
the matter or “let the sceptre fall from its
palsied hand.” Unrest always seethes with
Billy and sceptres are in permanent danger
of falling from palsied hands. Yet his turgid
old commonplaces always go down. Not only
in Sydney, where he stands alone as a mob-
orator, but abroad. When his blitherings
came to an end at Geneva “the French Prime
Minister (M. Ilerriot) enthusiastically
joined in the applause, which was led by
Viscount Cecil.” I hope the proper authori-
ties have had gramophone records made of
some of his speeches for the benefit of pos-
terity. They are awful in form and style
and rarely contain a new idea —John Norton
was the only speaker I ever listened to who
could say so little in so many words —but
they register the ending of an era: that of
fairly general illiteracy. Despite tabloids and
talkies the public taste has improved. Modern
audiences can only be doped by words when
the doper is, like Billy, an Old Master of his
art. The bunkum he talks now was talked
much less effectively by hundreds of poli-
ticians a generation ago, and it was a form
of blasphemy to laugh at it. He is the
Last of the Dan O’Connors, so to speak, and
deserves a monument at least as enduring as
the substance records are made of.
x * * x
“Strict Vcg.”: Touching the contention
of Bertrand (Earl) Russell that Univers’
life would be better, in-
tellectually and morally,
if students contracted
temporary childless mar-
riages, I am constrained
to doubt if it would eli-
minate the influences
which disturb the stu-
dent. If there is to be
companionate marriage,
there will also be com-
panionate adultery and
companionate divorce,
companionate falling out
of love and companion-
ate jealousy. All sorts
of modifications of the
marriage institution have
been tried in various
parts of the world, but
nobody ba.s yet solved the
problem of how to make
John and Jane, who have
started liking each other
at the same time, stop
liking each other simul-
taneously ; and if Jane
likes John more than
John likes Jane there
will still be the old devil to exorcise.
X * *
“Amity Point”: No need to go to Malaya
for evidence that leprosy is being conquered
(B. 28/9/’32). For 20 years at least, to
writer’s own knowledge, the Peel Island
lazarette in Moreton Bay (Q.) has been turn-
ing out an annual quota of cured lepers. These
are sent out on a two years’ probation and
have to report weekly during that period at
specified clinics throughout the State. Few
of the cases suffer a relapse.
# ❖ A' 'A'
“Den ,Chas.”: The most edifying feature
of last week’s Tivoli Theatres case at Syd-
ney Central Police Court was the way lead-
ing K’s.G. lined up behind their learned
brother —and, incidentally, professional rival
—W. J. Curtis, K.C. Alex. Shand is the
undisputed leader of the N.S.W. Bar (ho
would be a great advocate in any country),
and Ernest Lamb has one of the subtlest
legal brains in Australia. They battled furi-
ously for a dismissal —Lamb supplying the
ammunition, Shand firing the gun—for eight
days, and refused to take a farthing in fees.
So much for those who say lawyers are lack-
ing in altruism and the softer virtues gener-
ally. The ease was simple enough, though,
for one reason and other, it caused more
row than has ever been heard in a Sydney
Police Court. (It was fought as it was
because a committal would have done grave
professional damage to Curtis.) The fact
was disclosed during Mclntosh’s bankruptcy
proceedings that he, Curtis and Covell, as
directors of Tivoli Theatres, had raised
£13,000-odd to buy out shareholders who
were threatening litigation which might have
been disastrous. There was no suggestion
that the money had been used for any other
purpose. A. R. J. Watt (for Mclntosh)
rebuked the pi-osecution for not bringing out
that the directors had acted on senior couix-
sel’s advice (“Call the company’s solicitor
and there will be an immediate acquittal”) ;
the pi’osecution said it was not their busi-
ness to call such evidence. Eventually the
magistrate dismissed the case without hear-
ing evidence for the defence; and David
Maughan, counsel for the prosecution, who
had been much upset at various stages of the
proceedings, was the first to grasp Curtis’s
hand in congratulation.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I don’t know why “The Gaffer”
(B. 21/9/’32) should think of tradition in
terms of centuries. A young country like
Australia can create quite a lot of traditions,
Adelaide has, or thinks it has, a tradition
of culture, which appears to date from a
INHERITED, PROBABLY.
“Betty’s always smashing her toys.”
“Yes, poor dear. But I don’t s’pose she can help it—her
daddy’s a broker!”
magnificently erroneous generalisation made
by a visiting journalist, Foster Fraser. Mel-
bourne has a tradition of good music. Bal-
larat has a tradition of good singers and bad
statuary. Bendigo hag. a tradition of tree-
planting. It started in 1857, during the gold
rush. Bendigo is proud of the fact that it
has 47,800 trees in its IJO miles of streets,
four times as many as Melbourne and more
than any city in the world except an Ameri-
can one of 100,000 population. When I was
in Darwin it l\ad a tradition of hard drink-
ing mainly at the expense of the cable
station which had a tradition of liquid hos-
pitality. If Australia’s pre-eminence in
cricket isn’t due to a tradition, what is it
due to? Human example or supernatural
ao-encv?"
” if * * *
“X.S.” : When a man is to be hanged the
„ onl dplno'pri with annliea-
KAS
o-iying all sorts of reasons, from scientific
their morbid craving One
rennest received in Melbourne some years
iT was from a novelist who said he was
Httt
nett last week it might wen naie upset mi
his preconceived notions, for the condemned
man, in reply to the usual inquiry as to
whether he had anything to s; L v, delivered
an address which would have done credit
a J Knrviatm. pf lnTlf , pvnoricncc He de-
t 0 a a , f travostv of iustice
fc
idnsl w tnesses discussed the addresses of
the InHous and exhauSvely criti-
the vanous counsel, a d , y Th
cised t h® ®hmming-up of the Judge. Iho
speech lasted nine mint^, << • ■" ,
vered with very little emot .
speaker was blindfolded. . _ .
„ nmi need t£?the
the scaffold made by that worse-than-murderer
Bennett in Melbourne the other day was a
record for Austialia. It wasn t. Before the
War, a Malayan convic ed P
atrocious murder in N*Q* WS® brought to Bus
/.° r exoCl iti • liveried t L p f a j t li in
Christian or was a
gaol. When he was liro to the di h
asked, as is usual, whether he had anything
to say. In a high, quavcaino joice e made a
speech of a maundering sort, interspersing
denials °f his cn mes with dissertations on his
religious feelings, Neatly half an hour .
b -V before the km dlyd a noiicd lo 11 rr
what all the other watchers had t?
before, that the bnhappy »Meh was merdy
sparring for time He |ave the Bod a
the hangman did the rest m a few seconds
though the appalling s^ eech , v^ hl £ h
on . the hasty pulling over the face of t, e
white hood stuck m many memories for a
long time afterwards.
* * , „ *,, , _* ~
“On Top” : Rabaul, Mandated Territory,
owes much to the late Ronald Ross. Built
by the Germans on a mangrove swamp
which had been filled by volcanic action
(Ra Ba-ul means “place of mangroves ), it
was a city of skeeters when it came our
way in 1914. Concentration of troops there,
with nothing to make war on but the
übiquitous anopheline, gave a fine chance
for a clean-up, and now practically every
malaria case in Rabaul comes from outside.
The Lakunai swamp, near Rabaitl, where
racecourse and golf links have been estab-
lished hi recent months is the last strong-
hold of the mosquitoes. Impossible to diam,
the swamp was a poser tor Dr. tom
Brennan, the D.P.H., but the introduction
of larvivorons fish is doing the trick.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: Yankee producers make
some ridiculous bloomers in their English
sequences, but London producers are often
worse. In “Mr. Bill, the Conqueror,” which
is about present-day life in Southern Eng-
land, the farmer-hero is shown driving to
a dance in a nineteenth-century dogeax-t. He
would have gone in the village taxi or in
his own or a neighbor’s car; dogcarts went
out in the Home counties with the new
motoring roads. The young man rides back
to his farm from the dance at midnight
across country, jumping hedges and hurdles
en route in the dark. There is a Rgend that
something of the sort occurred in the ’shires
a century ago under an exceptionally bright
moon (“The Moonlight Steeplechase” is the
title of a series of drawings that are some-
times seen in Midland inns), but it couldn’t
be done in the congested south under any
conditions. Actually, the hero_ would have
borrowed one of the cars of which his host’s
drive was full. It is as easy to borrow a
car in England as it is hard to borrow a
hunter. Another idiocy in this picture is
a Darktown Fire Brigade of a kind seen
years ago in Hollywood silents. The fire-
fighting appliances in modern England are
as up-to-date as the transport .services. Ihe
explanation of these and other mistakes
which any Englishman who knows the coun-
try life of his native land can spot in a
second is that all the Elstree and Twicken-
ham producers who aren’t Yanks or Euro-
peans are Londoners. What do they know
of England wh 0 only Wardour-street know?
*,,_ , * „ *, _ *
“Dugald Dalgetty”: I think I can offer a
suggestion of how the Finns have evolved
into champion long-distance runners (B.
21/9/’32). In the twelfth century King Eric
of Sweden made a missionary tour of the
country, and those who had failed to leg .it
into the impenetrable forests were either
butchered or baptised. Then the Finns drifted
hack to heathendom, and another Swedish
missionary expedition visited the place with
similar results, As the century wore on
other neighboring kingdoms, including both
Russia and Denmark, either had a crack at
the Finns on one pretext or another, or
fought each other all over the hapless country.
ofUafter’thc b/E
thot it i« nnw snnreme in that line
mte ‘y that it is now supicme in tnat nne.
. " „ . „ • , t oimue raav
Jiikko Swallowin o one s tongue may
be laie (B. 21/J/o-)_, hut it was a co
tmgency provided for in most old books of
medical instruction in cases of fits, drown-
ln,.»»d even faintness In miU cases the
victim was supposed to be safe if turned on
his side and the tongue seen to be in normal
position; when the matter was serious some-
a ’ drastic as actually pinning t he
tongue to a piece of tape and holding it for-
ward during unconsciousness was recom-
mended. I remember years ago seeing a first-
>t Ms
slip backwards” was his first mstruc-
tlon Helpers. * *
«2 n d Divvy”; At the risk of being sus-
pected of that most loathsome of social
ffenceg Bdtish Empire Leaguing, let me
sa y that I believe the British— i.e., people
of English, Irish, Scotch and Welsh blood-
leading the world in most things on their
meritg £ ig matter of character : they
don>t ive The Fren ch, Germans and
ot h erB can be bluffed into a futile revolution
whftn thingg go wrong at home; the British
h ang o n. The Yanks can make money in
boom times ; it is the British who remain
solvent diirin°’ slumps Many nesro and
are ffimia ” flghtol under
suitable conditions, but near Dickebusch in
> l7 j gaw gome hefty men of color in a
panic every time a shell dropped near them,
rp j 10 w jjites were a mile or so nearer the
enemy and no t thinking of a backward
move. African blacks have a natural gift
for boxing. No one ever landed enough
Llows on the three masters I have seen in
act j on (Johnson, Langford and McYea) to
j iurt th em Whenever I have seen blacks
get ti n g licked they have chucked it. I can’t
ima „i ne any nigger standing up to punish-
ment p]- 0 som e of the Irishmen that I have
wa t c hed being cut to pieces at the Stadium,
T j ie gy dne y papers mentioned a couple of
queer cases last week; —
William Hales, of Auburn, has been bedridden
with Sl ,i lia l trouble for U years. Took to chip-
carving. Then he lost the use of his right hand,
So he learned to carve with his left and is still
carrying on hands in ail
logion ftve y years ago . He ploughs, harrows and
do^s the rest of the necessary work in his orchard
i ca ther sockets fitted into his wrists. The
other day he competed in a local bicycle race.
This kind of man is the tiger of the human
species; lie scorns to admit:
Indian coolie may be compared to pi p < y
pus, which gives up the struggle and dies
almost at will. My notion is J > lit
ish produce more men and women ot the
tiger type than any other race.
A SONG OF CHANGING FASHIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The rose blonde is to take the place of the
platinum blonde. Short hair is doomed. The new
color for hair is an apricot tinge ; the once despised
‘ginger’ is now the rage.”
—London fashion-writer in M. Herald.”
The platinum blonde has vanished,
She’s gone with the winter’s snows.
From fashion parades she’s banished —
And the ash blonde, too, I suppose.
For many a day she bent her
Light steps to the stage’s centre,
Now she fades in the wings; and enter,
Enter the blonde of rose!
And the crown of a woman’s glory
Shall again be the head of hair
That she jettisoned suo more _
For a fatuous fashion’s flair.
No more shall the bob and shingle
With the manes of the menfolk mingle
On the floor where the jazz-strains jingle;
And the Eton crop is—where?
It’s off — erupit, evasit!
It’s dead as the old chignon,
And out upon him who says it
Isn’t mightily better gone!
The mode, like the moon that waxes,
Must wane, and the craze relaxes —
And earth still spins on her axis,
Aye, ever the world rolls on.
But the locks that the poets olden
And the painters our fathers knew
Loved best to be glittering-golden
Or flaxen, or some such hue,
Like the leaves our imported trees on
In the mellowing autumn season—
Though for some less obvious reason—
It seems they are changing, too.
They shall still be a color study
To make artist hearts beat hot,
But tresses will gleam more ruddy
In garden or sheltered grot.
And the ballroom’s belle and the beach’s,
Or the nymph of the river reaches.
The damsel who now your peach is
Will soon be your apricot.
From the beauty parlor magician
The maid in the mode will flit
With tints in her hair of Titian,
Entrancing and exquisite.
Ah! once ’twas a term to injure.
Now she w T ith a crown of ginger
To deck and adorn and fringe her
Will be truly, verily, It.
N.S.W.
T. THE H.


“Copabella”: It was at King’s Cross,
Sydney, where seven busy streets roar to an
intersection. Lingering for some time where
two _ streets met was an old lady in the
fashions of yesteryear: hair piled over a
“rat,” massive bonnet with strings, long
dolman and street-sweeper skirt. She allowed
hurrying youth and beauty to pass her;
then appeared a little fellow, also of yester-
year, with whiskers, shiny clothes, nonde-
script hat and (last stage of all!) shopping
bag. The old lady laid a gentle gloved hand
on his arm. “Would you see me across the
street?” she said. “I’m nervous of the traffic.”
Whiskers turned back, offered an arm, and
escorted Mrs. 1870 over, murmuring polite-
WILLING TO MAKE THE BEST OF IT.
OLD FRIEND: “If all you tell me about your husband is true you
should have divorced him years ago.”
DEAR LADY: “Indeed! Perhaps you think I could have the
alimony made retrospective.”
nesses as they went. Arrived at the other
kerb, the lady swept her gallant a magni-
ficent curtsey. Whiskers responded with a
bow made stiffly from the waist and as sweep-
ing a hat-raising, and imperturbable King’s
Cross roared on.
* * *
“Chevroford”: Glad sounds of singing
from the Central Hall, Melbourne, the other
evening informed passers-by that the Vic-
torian Prohibition League was engaged in
celebrating the 100th anniversary of the
Total Abstinence movement. One of the
speakers quoted statistics showing that there
were 11 million people in Great Britain
who never swallowed a hard. drink, and
there is little doubt that in non-prohibition
countries the number of non- or moderate-
drinkers is steadily on the increase. Never-
theless, I strongly suspect that the reasons
for the change given by the cold-tea advo-
cates have little or nothing to do with the
case. One hundred years ago a gentleman
got drunk frequently without outraging the
conventions; to be “drunk as a lord” was
the ambition of the lower orders. Nowadays
a lord probably has to drive himself home
in his motor-car along roads full of other
motor-cars driven by other lords at 40 miles
an hour. ■ Therefore he is apt to think twice
before he has another drink. Moreover, he
may have to appear next day at the board
meeting of a company concerned in vast
and intricate activities and he needs a clear
head. Practically all classes nowadays arc
engaged most of their time in oiling and
attending to the works of the most intricate
mechanism of production, distribution and
exchange mankind has ever devised. Society
in general can’t do this and be full as a
tick every night of the week. The cleri-
cal gents.'who want to make us temperate by
legislation may not like to admit it, but a
new morality may be a by-product of the
machine just as much as a result of per-
sistent preaching.
«= * *
“Jason” : What the gold discoveries of the
early ’nineties did for Westralia is best illus-
trated by a few figures quoted at the recent
celebrations of the 40th anniversary of the
discovery of Coolgardie by Bayley and Ford
—the latter is still living in Sydney. Be-
fore 1892 the colony had struggled along for
60 years and only just acquired sufficient
population (60,000) to entitle it to respon-
sible government. The next 10 years saw
the population trebled, and the next 20 saw
it increased fivefold. To the end of last
month the gold won was worth over 166 mil-
lions. Perhaps the agricultural statistics,
the direct if gradual results of the influx
of population, are even more striking. In
1891 there were only 70,000 acres of land
under crop; now there are nearly 39,000,000
acres. And it was largely the depressed con-
ditions of the period in the eastern States,
Victoria particularly, that sent miners and
venturers by thousands westwards. It is
assuredly not too much to hope that the
present hard times may do something similar
for long-neglected and little-traversed Cen-
tral Australia. No Government can do too
much to encourage and help the prospector;
without its Bayleys and Fords and Hannans
Westralia might have languished for another
20 years—might even be languishing still.
“Ex-G.P.”: “Spare Rodin,” while calling
attention to artists’ errors, falls into worse
ones himself when he states that there are
no girths on the saddle in “Vandyck’s immor-
tal statue of Charles I.” (B. 21/9/’32). Sir
Anthony van Dyck was a painter and not
a sculptor. The work to w T hich “S.R.”
presumably refers is in the National Gallery.
The girth on the Arab steed is there right
enough, as anyone may satisfy himself by a
glance at the illustration in the Gallery
catalogue. Thei'e is another portrait in the
Louvre, which I have looked at dozens of
times. In this the king is standing near the
horse’s head, but there is a girth on the
saddle in this picture, too.
“C.Q.”: Some Melbourne economists got
the shock of their lives at a debate on the Five-
year Plan. 11. Burton, lecturer at the Univer-
sity, attempted an
objective analysis
of the situation
and was followed
by Prof. G. L.
Wood, who also in-
dulged in a calm
and dispassionate
address on the
aims of the Soviet.
The judicial atmo-
sphere was sud-
denly shattered by
the voice of A.
Patkin, a Russian
member of the
audience, whose
torrent of rhetoric
demolished every
pretension of the
Bolsheviks to
science, humanity,
decency and vera-
city. It was easy,
the speaker said in
effect, for Mel-
bourne professors
to pretend to be ob-
jective about a
Revolution—they
ought to try being
revolutionists. Pat-
kin spoke from
considerable experi-
ence. It began
with eight months
in a Czarist prison
for being a student
member of the 1905
Revolution. When
the Ivere ns ky
regime arrived he
and his fellow-in-
tellectuals rejoiced
in a short period
of honor. When
Bolshevism replaced
it, Patkin renewed
acquaintance with
his old cell, this
time under Soviet
management. After
being iiicarcerated
several times he es-
caped from Russia.
He used to be a solicitor with' a flourishing
Moscow practice and was a' close friend of
the famous Stauislowsky, of the Moscow Art
Theatre. Now he manufactures hosiery in
Melbourne.
“Dr. Nil”: It may interest “G. 5.,”
“Nimity Jane” _ and others to know that
there is an ancient belief among midwives,
howdies, skeelie women and other of the
Gamp and Prigg type that a child takes the
sex of the parent least sexually potent.
Hence the old saying. It takes a man to get
a girl; anyone can get a boy. If this be
founded on fact it may suggest why so many
boys are born after a large proportion of the
most vigorous men have been slaughtered.
*»* v #
“P.S.”: “Cyrano” (B. 14/9/’32) uses a
very outworn argument in support of the
public-school system when he talks of the
Empire being run by its products and Sepoys
being impressed by them. The Empire was
created long before English public schools,
as at present constituted, ever came into
prominence. And it is being held by thou-
sands whose Alma Mater was the local board
school. The Sepoy defers to the judgment
of the rawest subaltern, not because he is a
public-school boy, but because he (the Sepoy)
is a Sepoy.
* ® #
“Island Pine”: Norfolk Island has an
undeserved reputation overseas for being
bone-dry or nearly so. Certainly there are
no pubs, but there is a sort of limited
license, liquor being imported by the Gov-
ernment, kept in bond and issued by a
Government official each Saturday morning
to an alternating group of “permittees.”
Nobody entitled to draw liquor at all is
supposed to receive an issue oftener than
once a fortnight, and what he obtains then
depends upon his age and medical noocssi-
ties. There is nothing but beer or stout
for those under age; whisky, brandy and
rum are allowed only to the more mature;
gin is reserved for the aged and infirm.
Permits in every case have to be recom-
mended by the medical officer and endorsed
by the Administrator. For public entertain-
ments special issues have been granted. So
ALL IN VAIN.
MRS. GEORGE: “Emily used to be fearfully strict about love-
making and all that in her young days, and now she’s on
the shelf.”
GEOROE: “I see—one of those good-for-nothing girls.”
in one way and another it’s not hard to get
a skinful, if you feel that it would do you
good.
* •!* $ *
“F.S.”: A collection of pictures used as
posters by English railway companies was
recently presented to the University of Mel-
bourne by the 1930 and 1931 Graduate Asso-
ciations. and these have been solemnly
accepted by Chancellor John MacFarland,
framed and hung in the. common room and the
women’s sitting-room of the clubhouse. It
is a weird commentary on the aesthetic taste
of Melbourne’s leading educational institu-
tion that it should regard a collection of
posters, even though they are by “leading
modern artists,” as an addition to its
treasures of art. The next activity of the
University ought to he a series of addresses
on medical science by leading Chinese her-
balists.
“Boomi”: Australian airmen have a pre-
judice against parachute practice and the
wearing of paraclmte-packs which is hard
to understand. Parachute-
packs are almost universally
worn in England and America ;
Lindbergh owed his life to his
parachute on three occasions;
a recent newsreel even shows
Prime Minister MacDonald
climbing into a ’plane wear-
ing his pack. Parachutes are,
of course, of little use in
cabin ’planes, but several
valuable Australians who have
been killed in recent years
would probably still be alive
had they worn packs in dis-
regard of local convention.
“The McHaggis”: I was
decoyed the other night to a
ball given by the “Younger
Set” of the Sydney Highland
Society. As usual on such
occasions I found many people
wearing the pliilabeg who are
no more Highlanders than I
am. A hundred and fifty
years ago the Lowland Scots,
who founded 90 per cent, of
Australia’s Scottish popula-
tion, looked on the breekloss
loon from beyond the High-
land line as nothing better
than a thieving wastrel.
Queen Victoria’s obsession
with the Highlands and the
ridiculous appearance on
every opportunity in Scotland
of the German Prince Con-
sort in the kilt set a vogue
with the snobs which pre-
sently became general. Thus
•we find descendants, of the
great Border families, Max-
wells, Ords,. Elliotts, Hopes,
Hum e s, Hays, Hepburns’
Haigs, Homes, etc., content to appear in
public in a dress which, if they had worn it
200 years ago, would have ensured them a
speedy hanging, at the hands of their own
people.
■*. * * *
“C. Ma”: The internationalising of broad-
casting is proceeding apace, like the inter-
nationalising of the movies. The 8.8. C. re-
cently inaugurated a scries of recorded pro-
grammes disseminated from various Eng-
lish stations. After the performances the
discs are available for any . foreign or
Dominion station that likes to purchase
them: they are not for sale to the public.
As the artists engaged are likely to be
superior to any local talent, the canned pro-
grammes will tend to drive out competi-
tors. It is difficult to distinguish between
the actual voice and the recorded variety
when they are broadcast. The sponsors of
the scheme hope that later “Dominion discs
will be available for British broadcasting. - '
* * *- *
“Lao-dah”: Commenting on the alleged
increase in facial down amongst local
flappers, a corres-
pondent of a Mel-
bourne daily sug-
gests that the pheno-
menon is due to the
shingle and the Eton
crop. Checked in
one direction
Nature bursts forth
in others, and soon
women who insist on
wearing their hair
short will have blue
jaws through the
necessity of daily
shaving. As proof
of his theory, the
writer cites the
Chinese, w li o,
according to him.
couldn’t raise a hair
on their faces while
they grew pigtails,
but since this piece
of Manclru tyranny
has been lifted have
started sprouting
whiskers like any
Nordic. 1 was in
Singapore in 1911
when the Revolu-
tion broke out, and
saw patriots hust-
ling fellow-citizens
up by-streets and
chopping their tails
off. I have observed
New China from
time to time since
without noticing any
remarkable increase
in the nation’s
facial upholstery. If
there is any, it is
more likely to be
due to the cessation
of the practice of
plucking the hairs out
than to the absence
of a pigtail. To re-
assure the women
further, a medical
friend tells me the
theory of the news-
paper correspondent
is pure bunk. If
anything, frequent shingling promotes the
growth of hair on the part shingled; and
anyhow, Australian males shave and cut
their hair close without producing whiskers
on their knees.
* * $
“Ibn el Issar”: Interesting to read the
announcement of the N.S.W. Minister who
runs the State lottery that he may also insti-
tute Calcutta sweeps. I wonder if Mr.
Weaver understands what a Calcutta sweep
really is. The big Indian event on the Eng-
lish Derby is, nowadays, I understand,
simply an ordinary sweep, with limitations sis
the purchase of tickets. In the “Calcutta”
proper the drawer of a horse in a race has
his prize put up to auction. He may bid
and buy himself. Otherwise he gets half the
price bid and the balance goes to swell the
sweep pool. The real Calcutta is purely a
club and social affair, with a couple of
hundred interested at the most. That any
such system could be applied to a sweep
w.i«h, say, 100,000 subscribers is manifestly
impossible.
THE MONEY LANGUA GES.
"Dad says a boy who is going in for commerce seriously
should learn at least two languages .”
“What would he suggest—Scotch and Hebrew ,
suppose ?”
“Stratford”: “Frenchmen who only know
Shakspearo in translation regard him as a
barbarian,” says “Cauboy” (B. 28/9/’32). An
overstatement, I think; Paris has a statue to
him. And if the virtues of Shakspeare lie as
much in his music as in his thought, how
account for his popularity in Germany? For
if the Teuton is a deeper thinker than the
Gaul he is essentially more musical, too.
The books and commentaries written about
Shakspeare by Germans come second hi
volume only to those produced by the poet's
own countrymen. Translation into a foreign
tongue needn’t kill poetry. For proof of
that it is hardly necessary to go beyond the
Old Testament, where the beauty of the
Hebrew imagery is preserved for millions
who know nothing about Hebrew.
MY HYMN OF HATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hate is my mistress, but I’m no such churl
As knows hate only, for I still love girl,
Life, light and laughter and, all else above,
I still love love.
But, oh! I hate, in varying degrees,
Earthquakes and steak-and-kidney pies and
fleas.
I hate asperity. I hate, as well,
Saintliness, guff and legendary hell,
Politics, too, in detail and in sum.
And port wine doctored with illicit rum.
I hate blown cattle and a blown-out tyre,
Ants in the porridge, rubber on the fire,
Maggots on mutton and on beef still more,
People who sigh for good old days of yore,
And railway passengers who sprawl and
snore.
I hate long dresses and an Oxford bleat,
And men who dig up gas-mains in the street.
I hate formality. I also hate
Men who are crooked, women who are
straight—
The last referring wholly to the torso.
I hate boiled tripe, and printed tripe much
more so,
Cockroaches, gamps, reformers and repres-
sion,
Much of the talk of Parliament in session,
Murder and other such discourtesies—
I hate all these.
But most of all afflictions sent by Fate,
I hate all kinds, degrees and shades of hate.
N.S.W.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


YOU’VE WASTED MONEY
in shares and other speculations, and are likely to do so again. Make sure that one of your
investments is safe; be certain of some provision for your dependants should they lose your
support. A good and safe way is to take out a policy with the
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
which has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal
bonuses in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. The
office is solid and progressive. For review of actuary's report see
“Bulletin,’’ 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; P. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the mates.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
£12,000,000.
- - £4,739,012 10 0
. . 4,300,000 0 0
. - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITCCtOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin L ane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at CanbeiTa,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all o.her parts or tne
world. . .
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted..
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
S. Aus. is going to put up a memorial to
John Ridley, who invented the stripper. He
refused all reward except a presentation
candlestick, now preserved in the Agricul-
tural Institute at Urrbrae, The stripper
was first tried in 1843, at Wayville, an Adel-
aide suburb. By mere chance, the Show is
now held close by, and the memorial is to
be a granite obelisk in the, Showground.
A long life and a useful one was that
of Edward Miller, dead at 84. _ His
grandfather was Captain Henry Miller, a
Waterloo veteran, who arrived at Moreton
Bay (Q.) 108 years ago and was first com-
mandant there. His father was Henry
Miller, one of Victoria’s pioneers and an
M.L.C. Edward attained that distinction,
too —he sat for the South Yarra and East
Yarra provinces from 1892 to 1912 —but he
was better known for his business enter-
prises. He was interested in Broken Hill and
Charters Towers from their start, part-owner
of several stations and chairman of the Bank
of Victoria. He found time to be a keen
sportsman, too —a racehorse owner and a
hunt master for many a year—and his war-
time Red Cross work brought him a knight-
hood in 1917. The hospitals had a constant
helper in him. His wife (a Darlot) like-
wise won recognition for her patriotic work,
and a son served in the war.
The family history of George McArthuf
Gidley King, who died at Tamworth last
week at 62, goes back to the very beginnings
of N. S. Wales. The deceased was the great-
great-grandson of Captain Philip Gidley
King, who arrived with Phillip when the
colony was founded and became its third
Governor (1800-1806). And four genera-
tions of Kings have been in the service of the
Australasian Agricultural Coihpany, or the
Peel River Land and Mineral Company,
which sprang from it. The list begins with
the Governor’s son, Admiral Phillip King,
who was appointed its Commissioner. His
son, Philip Gidley King (an M.L.C. in his
day) was the first superintendent; George
Gidley King succeeded him, and then came
George Gidley McA. King, who held the job
from 1910 until a couple of years ago, when
he retired to live on the family property
near Tamworth. He was an old King’s
School boy.
Theophilus Benjamin Strong, M.L. Direc-
tor of Education, succeeded in office that
very strenuous worker James Caughley when
the latter went to direct education in Fiji
five years ago. Unlike Caughley, who
stepped from the headmastership of a Christ-
church school to the Assistant-Director’s
T. B. STRONG, Director of Education in
Maoriland.
chair, Strong had 22 years as an inspector
before he joined the Director’s office, and is
best! known in the Wanganui district, where
he conducted the inquisitions for 16 years.
He was addicted to football and tennis in
his younger days. Born in London, he went
to M.L. with his parents at an early age,
and is a graduate of Otago Uni.
Rodney Cockburn, dead in Adelaide at 55,
was a “Register” reporter who in 1914 left
daily journalism with Fred Johns and others
to found the S. Aus. “Hansard” staff. In
spite of bad health, he was a tireless worker
and secretary to various Commissions. His
pet side-line was the origin of place-names;
and he was one of the three experts deputed,
in the bitterness of wartime, to alter' all the
German names which early settlers had
made famous in S.A.
Dr. Raymond William Firth, who provides
Norman Lindsay with the text for a car-
toon this week, is acting-professor of anthro-
pology at Sydney University, but leaves to
take a big job in London at the end of the
year. Dr. Firth is a tall, good-looking
Maorilander not long past 30. Auckland is
his home town; and after attending • the
Grammar School there, at the age of 22 he
got his M.A. degree from the Auckland Uni-
versity College. Proceeding to England, he
studied anthropology at London University
under Bronislaw Malinowski, the distin-
guished Polish scientist and author of many
notable works on the Pacific Islanders. Lon-
don rewarded him with a Ph.D. During this
period he did some lecturing at the London
School of Economics and was made a fellow
PROFESSOR FIRTH, Anthropologist.
of a batch of learned societies. For a year
then he was engaged in an anthropological
survey at Tikopia, a small island in the
Solomons; he is at present giving the final
touches to the record of his investigations.
In 1930 Sydney Uni. made him a lecturer
in the subject he knows so well, and when
Professor Radcliffe Brown left last year the
young man was instructed to carry on in his
place. Dr. Firth took part in the Brisbane
(1930) and Sydney (1932) Advancement of
Science congresses, and at the first read a
paper on “Chieftainship” and at the other
one on “Kinship” in native life. He is
the author of a book on the kauri-gum
industry and of “Primitive Economics of the
N.Z. Maori,” and also edits “Oceania.”
PI. T. Easterby, whose death in Cairns
at 56 is reported, was an outstanding figure
in the Australian sugar industry, having
been for years Director of the Bureau of
Sugar Experiment Stations in Queensland.
Born at Maffra (Vic.), he early became
acquainted with the beet-sugar industry
there and later went to Bingera plantation,
near Bundaberg, as chemist. In 1901 he
was appointed Assistant-Director to Dr.
Maxwell, and on the latter’s retirement suc-
ceeded him. He lias been a member of
many Royal Commissions' dealing with sugar
methods, and several times represented
Queensland at the conferences of the Inter-
national Society of Cane Sugar Technolo-
gists.
Over 3000 politicians passed in and out of
the N.S.W. Parliament during the 50 years
of service of old George Cannon, who has
just retired from the job of Chief Parlia-
mentary messenger of the Legislative
Assembly. The old man has a remarkable
memory; shown a photograph of any Par-
liamentary group he can still identify every
figure.
N. S. Wales has lost a sturdy war veteran
in Phillip Joseph Carroll. He joined the
first corps of volunteers formed at Lithgow,
and a few months afterwards was accepted
for the Sudan contingent. A day or so
before the boat sailed, however, he broke his
arm, and had to remain at home. He had
better luck in the Boer War, where he
served with the Sixth Imperial Bushmen.
In 1914, though he had left 50 behind, he
was one of the first to join up. He was
twice wounded at Gallipoli, and returned to
Australia, but later enlisted again for Pales-
tine. After the close of war he was em-
ployed at the Small Arms Factory until he
reached the age limit. Carroll was 70 when
the Last Post sounded.
According to V. Y. Chow, an Australian-
born Chinese journalist who has returned to
this country to get material for a history of
the birth of the Chinese Republic, the re-
volution that unseated the Mancliu dynasty
had its origin on the Australian gold-
! fields. The microbe of democracy is
contagious, and spreads rapidly, but it will
take a long time to thoroughly infect a
population as vast as that of China. Mr.
Chow, who was in the recent fighting at
Shanghai, remarks that in that conflict the
Chinese merchants and middle classes
showed indifference. It was the coolies who
resisted bravely and underwent untold hard-
ships to prevent the Japanese encroachment.
Billy Admans, whom Senate and Reps,
praised when he retired from the job of
deputy-chief of “Hansard” staff last week, has
had a full life on the Inky Way. He began 42
years ago as Brunswick and Coburg corres-
pondent of the Melb. “Evening Standard,”
when Sam Whittaker was chief-of-staff. His
accounts of certain happenings at Pentridge
brought him on to the inside staff; later
he went to Sydney as special correspondent,
and before the “Standard” amalgamated with
the “Herald” he had become a sub. Then
David Syme secured him for the “Age” ; he
was political reporter when George Turner,
retiring State Premier and first Fed. Treas-
urer, offered him a place on the Common-
wealth “Hansard” staff.
George Bellingham, who died in England
the other week at an advanced age, was a
well-known figure among Coolgardie investors
and speculators in the booming ’nineties.
When the South Province was brought into
being in 1900 to give the goldfields fuller
representation in the Leg. Council, Belling-
ham was the third of the three successful
candidates elected —Tom Brimage and J. T.
Glowrey, both of whom have long since
joined the Majority, were his colleagues.
George held his seat until 1908; not long
after he returned to England and remained
there. He retained mining interests until
his death; Tanami was one of the latest
fields he had a stake in.
A memorial to William Martin, Maori-
land’s first Chief Justice, is to be erected at
Parnell, Auckland. He lived at Judge’s Bay
(named after him) and was a close friend
of the pioneer missionary, Bishop Selwyn.
Interest in him languished until a couple
of years ago, when a Maorilander wandering
in a Torquay cemetery (Devonshire) came
across the graves of Sir William Martin
and his wife, neglected and forlorn. Judge
Martin went to M.L. in 1841, retired
in 1852 and returned to the Cold Country
in 1874, where he died in 1880. A book
entitled “Our Maoris,” by Lady Martin, was
published in London.
Joseph Sabelberg, of Melbourne, who had
a 90th birthday last week, claims to be the
oldest practising lawyer in Victoria, if not
in Australia. France is his country of
origin; he arrived in Melbourne with his
parents in 1854, and was admitted to the
pursuit of costs 14 yea?® later, when he
was 26. There is another still-practising
solicitor, William Ardlie, of Warrnamboot,
whose name was on the rolls a few months
sooner than Sabelberg’s, but he is no, more
than 87.
Bill Denny, Attorney-General in S.
Australia, and Minister in charge of the
bill which seeks to reduce the membership
of both Houses of his State’s Parliament
and make other important changes, began
life as a journalist, and edited the “Southern
W. J. DENNY, S.A. Attorney-General.
Cross,” the Adelaide R.C. organ, before he
took to politics and then read for the Bar.
Though Denny was 42 when the Great War
started he hopped into khaki with the Light
Horse, was transferred to the Artillery, and
was in the Australians’ first fight in France.
Archie Michaelis, one of the earnest
Young Liberals who followed Menzies into
the Vic. Assembly after the last general elec-
tion, is a younger-generation director of
Michaelis, Hallenstein and Co., an old house
whose founders were among Melbourne s
best-known philanthropists. Michaelis ran
for St. Kilda, where Burnett Gray was be-
ARCHIE MICHAELIS, M.L.A. ( Vic .).
lieved to be well entrenched; but the Old
Liberal was beaten after a fight in which
there was a good deal of bitterness —he hadn’t
been a quite good enough party man to suit
the machine.
A queer turn of Fortune’s wheel has made
Captain V. C. Holyman, who used to be
master of the s..s. Laranah when she traded
between Melbourne and Launceston, into the
pilot of a Fox Moth aeroplane, plying over
portion of the same route. Recently the
steamer Colliboi was wrecked off the Speck’s
rocky coast. She kept up communication
between Launceston and Flinders Island.
Now the smaller speck is threatened with
isolation. During the war Holyman left his
bridge and joined the Australian Flying
Force, gaining extensive experience. He is
going to use it to run his own aeroplane ser-
vice between Flinders Island and Tasmania.
Later he hopes to extend it to other islands
in Bass Strait.
A grandson of the late W. H. Traill, one
of The Buleetin’s early editors and co-pro-
prietors, is .Tames Heddle Dick, of Brisbane
“Telegraph,” the youngest senior reporter in
Brisbane at 24. Journalism with him is
hereditary. His other grandfather, W.
Heddle Dick, was a well-known Queensland
editor 50 years ago; his great-uncle, Thos.
Evan Price, was social editor of the
“S.M.H.” (they were men in those days),
and a great-aunt is Mab Fotheringhame,
Sydney’s oldest social writer. An uncle is
chief of staff on Brisbane “Daily Mail.”
W. H. Ti’aill lias three sons in Queensland,
but none of them has followed the Inky
Way.
In Mrs. Mary Rogers Victorian Labor has
lost a stalwart worker. She was the first
woman councillor in Australia —Richmond
elected her in 1921 —and she was also the
first woman J.P. in the State. Later she
was appointed a special magistrate of the
Children’s Court.
Percy Girouard, dead in London at 65,
was a French Canadian who achieved a con-
siderable reputation in the British Army and
later as a Colonial Office administrator.
Kitchener picked him out to superintend the
building of the desert railway up the Nile
to Dongola. which enabled the crushing of
the Kalifa later at Omdurman. During the
Boer War Girouard was Director of Rail-
ways in South Africa ; later he was succes-
sively Governor of Northern Nigeria and of
the East African Protectorate. In 1915
he was appointed Director General of Muni-
tions for the British forces in the Great War.
Just dead at Guildford (N.S.W.) in
his mid-eighties, William Bakewell Audu-
bon, grandson of the great American natural-
ist John James Audubon (1780-1851),
whose works on ornithology are classics.
William Audubon grew wool and wheat and
settled a few years back at Guildford in
retirement. His only son, a Digger, who
lost an arm in the war, and now lives at
Goulburn, is the only male descendant of
the famous naturalist.
Walter Longford, who died at Ashfield
(Sydney) at 78 the 1 other day, was a retired
railwayman past 60 when the war-drum
beat, but that didn’t stop him from volun-
teering for active service. He went to France
with the railway unit and came back with
the Military Medal.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
41,388
1 929..549,931 10 p.e. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106;609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. .. 148,373
1930.. 320.700 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 319 10 „ 2* „ „ 187,141 138,312
1932.. 10 „ 3 „ „ 205,970 1,370 139,682
♦lncludes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares.
With things as they were four years ago,
when the Perdriau business was welded into
the Dunlop organisation and the 550,000
ords. or thereabouts in the Barnet Glass
Co. were bought at 325. apiece, it locked
as if the big combination might keep steady
on the 10 p.c. mark. But the violent and
complete change in conditions soon raised
the question whether future earnings were
likely to be sufficient to pay satisfac-
tory dividends on the £3,765,655 of ord.
capital as well as 10 p.c. on £930,000 of
pref. scrip. Last year’s performance and the
improvement in the outlook generally en-
courage hopes that they will.
As the tide ebbed savings were made in
the . buying, manufacturing and marketing
sections, and the enterprising manage-
ment branched out from the main busi-
ness of tyre-manufacture with a mea-
sure of success. But exchange and taxa-
tion bumped up outgoings, while falling
prices caused trouble with stocks anti
debtors’ balances. Still, the worst of the
trouble in these respects appears to have
passed; how to liven turnover and further
reduce costs are the problems of the
moment. During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts there was a heartening
spring of £26,678 in gross earnings
(£736,063) ; exes. (£528,723) were pulled
back £5343, leaving enough to pay the pref.
div. and show a trifle over 3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 2.1, 6 and 12.1 p.c. back
to 1929, the year following the merger. So
half a point was added to the div., raising
it to 3 p.c.
The market has lengthened its bid for the
scrip to 16s. as against Bs. 6d. a year ago.
At 16s. the return is 3-| p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis; thus the investor who looks for 6.2
p.c. on his money counts on 5 p.c. distri-
butions. To pay the pref. div. and 5 p.c.
on the ords. would call for 5.8 p.c. on the
net book value of the undertaking at June
30, whereas last year’s profit was 4.2 p.c.
on the said net book value. The prefs. are
a drag, of course, and likely to remain so.
A serious impediment, to the co.’s recovery
is the duty (4d. per pound) plus 10 p.c.
primage on raw rubber. These charges
added £lOB,OOO (=2.8 p.c. on ord. capital)
to outgoings last year. Moreover, in some
of the co.’s lines the Government has thus
virtually made a present of the local market
to foreign manufacturers. Given a little
relief in this and other directions, a 5 p.c.
div. or more may not prove to be beyond
the co.’s reach as trading conditions im-
prove. With things as they are, however,
the market appears to have discounted im-
mediate prospects.
Finances are comfortable, and balance-
sheet movements are encouraging :
Capital: 1929 ’ 1931. 1932.
Ord £3,764,151 £3,765,655 £3,765,655
Pref 930,000 930,000 930,000
Liabilities.. . . 504,612 218,741 379,627
Freeholds, e tr. .. 1,138,687 1,111,807 1,106,534
Plant, etc. . . 1,147,026 1,168,671 1,109,839
Stocks . . . . 1,433,639 1,019,415 1,105,475
Debtors .. . . 515,384 370.374 466,991
Cash .. .. 154,201 41,715 94,027
Investments .. 29,163 412,178 438,241
Shares other cos.. . 1,046,052 1,069,190 1,071,256
Goodwill .. .. 354,377 354,377 354,377
Thus last year £86,060 was added to the stocks
item, £96,617 to debtors’ balances and the
cash holding was strengthened by £52,312.
Only £160,886 was added to the debt, which
was more than covered by cash, etc., alone.
The improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,725,107, including stocks but
not shares) was £100,166. The Barnet
Glass ords., on which 3 p.c. was paid for
the year to June 30, account for a large
part of the share holdings, and the Dunlop
Rubber Shoe co.’s scrip for most of the
balance. On fixed assets £64,105 more was
written off than was spent.
Colonial Gas Association
Net , Dividends N To Re. Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total serves, serves.
1926.. 36,438 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 33,289 3149 43,005
1927.. 52,871 8 „ 9 „ „ 47,654 5217 48,222
Share premiums, £14,875 .. .. 63,097
1928.. 62,300 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 55,806 6494 69,591
1929.. 74,537 8 „ 9 „ „ 73,501 )
Written off, £7194 .. .. J ~~
1930.. 77,264 8 p.c. 84p.C/= 72,269 |
Written off, £BB~OB.. ..J - -'9,620
1931.. 67,588 8 p.c. <H p.c.= 64,254 / a „
Written off, £2455 .. ..J 879 60 > 499
1932.. 62,373 8 p.c. 6 p.c. = 61,134 1239 61,738
LTnexplained additions, £9102 .. 70,840
Since headquarters were transferred from
London to Melbourne in 1924 (this to gain
a little relief from taxation), paid capital
has jumped from £286.879 to £920,531, and
£312,900 has been added to the debenture
debt, raising it to £439,500. The co. and its
subsidiaries now control a string of about
30 gasworks, stretching round the coast from
Albany in the west to Townsville in the
north, and interests have been extended to the
manufacture of ammonia, bitumen and dis-
infectants, etc., as well.
All this did not interfere with the run of
9 p.c. divs. to the ords., which had begun
in 1922 and had sent the pound shares to
over 295. in the market. But slump came
trundling on the heels of the hold-up at
Maitland, and earnings suffered as the sale of
gas fell away and cuts were made in the
price charged to the consumer, while taxa-
tion and exchange made off with much
of what the management saved in out-
goings. The contraction in last year’s
revenue (£283,929) was £22,628— gas sales
(£216,196) slipped £20,063; divs. and returns
from residuals (together £67,733) were £2565
lighter. The net reduction in outgoings
(£221,556) was £17,413, due mainly to
lighter coal and carrying charges. Allowing
for the pref, div. (£23,692), but leaving an
unexplained addition of £9102 to reserves
out of the reckoning, enough remained to
show 6.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 7 p.c.
in the previous year. So half a point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.
Owing to the change in outlook and drop
in interest rates, the market now prices the
ords, at 245. as against 17s. 6d. a year ago.
The return at 245. is 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs., whose annual require-
ments were over 24 times covered by last
year’s profit, return 54 P-c. at 295. The
pref. and debenture money is costing the co.
on the average a whisper over 7 p.c. p.a..
whereas last year’s declared profit, including
debenture interest, was 6.3 p.c. on total
funds (capital, reserves and debentures com-
bined) ; thus the fixed charges are a drag
on the ords. at the moment. As consumption
improves earnings should benefit.; hut there
is the ever-present possibility of legislative
control of prices and divs.
The financial structure and recent growth
of the business are seen in the next table: —
1926. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £497,025 .C 920,531 £920,531
Debentures .. .. 138,600 439,500 439,500
Sundry creditors .. 73,072 53,001 26,738
Land, plant, etc. .. 693,563 955,716 -976.133
Shares other cos. . . 326,818 327,620
Advances other cos. .. —■ 140,536 119,379
Stocks .. .. .. 30,697 33,446 31,796
Book debts .. .. 46,751 45,096 40,158
Cash, investments, etc. 33,825 51,685 45,033
Thus the floating debt, which was reduced by
£26,263 last year, is well covered. The
debentures mature at various dates to the
end of 1940. On these the board pays the
full contract rate of interest, and it makes
no deduction from the pref. div. on account
of the super tax on divs. received from sub-
sidiaries.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends s To Re-
July, Profit. Pref.—Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8 „„ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6 „ 6 „ „ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 ~ 6 „ 6 ~,, 15,601 230 32,448
The prefs.—there are 44.878 . first 8 per
cents, and 182,183 second 6 per cents.—rank
in order for capital and divs., and advance
with the ords. (18,000) after the latter have
had 6 p.c. After -setting aside £7OOO for
depreciation and £4400 for taxation (to-
gether £3lOO less than in the previous term)
there was a further slip of £3012 in last
year’s net earnings, which were little more
than was necessary to give the prefs. their
minimum requirements and the ords. 6 p.c.
Appearances are, 1 therefore, that the co.
may have a struggle to keep up regular
payments to the ords., and, possibly, the
second prefs. Though it is the only cement
producer of importance in Queensland at the
moment —another concern is on the hunt for
capital to put up works near Maryborough—
its plant capacity (69,000 tons p.a.) is well
in excess of requirements. Sales reached their
peak (46,000 tons) about three years ago ;
they were less than 20,000 tons in 1931,
when the works at Darra and the quarry
at Gore were closed for eight months out of
Die 12 and operations were intermittent for
the first six months of 1932. On the other
hand, use of the shell-lime deposits from
the co.’s new lease on Mud Island is ex-
pected to further reduce costs, increased
mining activity should help demand, and
there has been 'an encouraging response to
the management’s efforts to widen the use
of th'e eo.’s products by advertising. Much
depends upon this, and upon what happens
in connection with competition.
Finances are comfortable :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft .. 29,963
Sundry creditors 20,118 14,328 8,057 8,178
Freehold, etc. 28,203 28,605 28,605 30,589
Plant, etc. .. 287,109 313,584 313,890 314,449
Stocks .. 25,584 49,973 50,816 39,827
Book debts .. 39,513 23,904 11,082 13,982
Cash, etc. .. 1,840 7,336 17,578 30,374
Thus the book value of stocks was reduced
by £10,989 during the year, and £12,796
was added to cash, etc. Altogether the more
or less liquid surplus (£76,005, including
stocks) was £4586 . stronger than at the
previous balance.
The market prices the first prefs. .at 225.
6d., the seconds at 16s. and the ords. at
14s. 7d.; the return at these figures is 7.1,
7.5 and 8.2 p.c. respectively on the basis
of last year’s distributions.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
, ; —Dividends
,—Prefs.—^
A B R e .
Juue, Profits. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ ' £ £
1927.. 75,139 13,500 2190 15 p.e. = 38,550 42,676
Profit on sale of freehold. £17,681.. 60,357
1928.. 74,094 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,800 79,961
1929.. 72,701 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 38.700 98,272
Portion of goodwill sold to subsi-
diary, £7140 105,412
Transferred to Contingency Reserve,
£15,000 90,412
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.e. = 25.800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5OOO 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwill, £9384 .. .. 88.655
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
Transferred to specific reserves,
£35,622 80,755
Portion of goodwill sold to sub-
sidiary, £5588 .. .. . . 86,343
1932.. 48,919 11,219 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 107,942
This co. handles equipment for brewers,
bakers, confectioners, etc., and sales of vine-
gar and essences helped to bump up the tak-
ings. Following a one-for-one gift to the
ords. in 1926 (provided by a revaluation of
the assets), the div. was lowered from 20 p.c.
to 15 p.c., and remained steady till the
close of accounts in 1929. Though trading
has since become lighter and more difficult,
attractive results have been won. Gross
earnings and -exes, are not disclosed; the
improvement in last year’s figures, however,
appears to have come from savings. After
paying the pref. divs., enough remained to
show 11.9 p.c. on ord. capital as against
9.7. 35, 22.1, 22.6 and 23 p.e. back to 1927-
Still, only 5 p.c. was distributed, notwith-
standing the dry stretch in the previous
year; the board preferred to lighten the
debt and thus further strengthen the
finances. Incidentally, the bonus issue six
years ago makes 5 p.c. now worth 30 p.c.
on old holdings.
During the year the vinegar section was
amalgamated with Champion’s Vinegar Co.,
and £12,500 was added to shareholdings,
while £5588 of goodwill, etc. (not treated
as an asset herein), was rubbed out, reduc-
ing intangibles to £43,656. The difference
apparently represents payment for plant,
etc. Also £25,000 of reserves was ear-
marked to cover possible depreciation of
freeholds, and £16,547 was set aside for taxa-
tion, etc. But £5925 had dropped from somp,-
where into the heap, so the visible shrinkage
on account of specific appropriations was
£35,622, leaving free reserves £107,942 in
excess of intangibles at June 30.
Within the last four years the co. sold
its old Castlereagh-street warehouse at a
profit of £17,681, bought. Arthur Cocks’s
York-street premises and a property in
Brisbane, put up a new factory at Waterloo
and took over the rest of Henriques’s busi-
ness—the pair had previously passed the
bottle-seal part; of their businesses to a sub-
sidiary, Australian Seal-Pty., for scrip. But
the board did not have to go outside for too
much, and there was marked improvement
in the position last year, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Ord. capital.. £258,000 £258,000 £285,620 £285,620
Pref. capital. . 171,900 171,900 171,900 171,9,00
Mortgages .. 6,000 3,000
Overdraft .. 41,652 32,923 5,620
Sundry creditors 94,142 78,876 109,319 68,015
Freeholds .. 169,545 207,983 209,049 209,083
Plant, etc. .. 37,192 37,423 47,611 42,062
Shares other cos. 88,544 126,644 141,644 154,144
Stocks . .. 128,845 .. 95,185 107,928 89,736
Book debt's... ■ 152,460 184,514 168,688 154,456
Loan.. .. 64,000 51,458 51,458 51,130
Cash, etc. .. 8,837 501 606 390
Thus a reduction of £18,192 in the stocks
item and of £14,232 in debtors’ balances,
together with the year’s surplus earnings,
enabled the balance of the mortgages (£3OOO
at the close of accounts in 1931) to be wiped
out, £27,303 to be knocked off the overdraft
and the trade debt to be lightened by
£41,304. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (*£227,607, in-
cluding stock but not shares) was £43,259.
Impressed by the figures and the change
in the. outlook, the market prices the ords.
at 275. 6d. as against; 11s. a year ago. The
return at 275. 6d. is 3.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.8 p.c. should the distribution be
lifted ,to 8 p.c. The statutory cut has re-
duced the div. on the A- and B prefs. to
,6.97 p.c. and 7f p.c. respectively. Thus at
265. the A shares return 5.3 p.c.; the B’s
seldom come on to the market. Subject to
intangibles in the subsidiaries and excluding
specific reserves, the net tangible cover is
A’s, £3. 15s. 5d.; B’s, £lB 19s. sd. • ords.,
275. 7d.
Bellambi Coal
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £> & £
1923*. 19,241 10 p.c. = 13,333 5,908 5,908
1924.. 55,266 10 „ „ 40,000 15,266 21,174
1925.. 56,369 10 „ ~ 40,000 16,369 37,543
1926.. 41,119 74 „ „ 30,000 11,119 48,662
1927.. 56,194 10 „ „ 40,000 16,194 .64,856
Profit L o'n sale of assets, £6OOO .. 70,856
1928.. 40,450 10 p.c. = 40,000 450 71,306
1929.. 51,153 12i „,, 50,000 1,153 72,459
Capital returned, £200,000
1930.. 30,945 15 p.c. = 30,000 945 73,404
1931.. 22,506 10 „ „ 20,000 2,506 75,910
Capital returned, £70,000
1932.. 4,629 2£ p.c. = 5,000 75,539
♦Four months.
During the fight on the northern coalfields
prices soared, and this and other southern
N. S. Wales collieries made hay; Bellambi
has one of the best bunkering connections
in the Commonwealth. From 10 p.c. in
3928 the div. climbed to 121 p.c. in 1929, and
15 p.c. in 1930. But slump followed resump-
tion of work in the north, coal prices fell,
and so did Bellambi’s profits. Last term
they were equal to no more than 2.3 p.c. on
capital, compared with 11.2, 15.4, 12.8 and
10.1 p.c. back to 1928; so the div. was cut
from 10 p.c. to 2| p.c.
Formed in 1888, the co. later took over
the South Bulli Colliery from Ebenezer
Vickery, and it soon developed into a money-
spinner. Handsome divs. were paid, and
enough was put aside to enable £175,000 of
bonus scrip to be handed out over the last
quarter-century. Capital grew to £400,000 in
this way; the 1923 reconstruction was on
a share-for-sliare basis, and a further 12s. 6d.
per share was handed out in cash. In 1929
the co. again became concerned about the
accumulation of cash and securities, so 10s.
per share was returned. Then, last term,
another 3s. 6d. was handed back, reducing
capital to £130,000 in 6s. 6d. shares.
The co. keens details of its finances very
much to itself:—•
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £200,000 £200,000 £130,000
Liabilities .. 70,155 83,131 64,302 65,435
Mine property,
steamers, in-
vestments, etc. 453,321 347,722 324,741 262,736
Book debts... 32,878 16,381 17,896 8,925
Cash .. .. 3,197 7,432 7,575 4,313
Following the return of £200.000 of capital
in 1929. the shrinkage in the blanket item
was £191.037, followed by a further shrink-
age of £22.981 in 1930. Last term the drop
was £62,005. The heavy falling-off in debtors’
balances since 1929 gives some indication of
how markets have disappeared. Shipping
activity, both coastal and overseas, has
shrunken considerably, while most ships built
nowadays are motor-vessels or oil-burners.
Prospects for the current term remain un-
Sromising. In May the B. 11. Associated
melters closed their cokeworks at Bellambi;
they had drawn their supplies from the South
Bulli Colliery for over 40 years. For the
6s. 6d. shares, backed by 10s. 3d. in net
tangibles (book value), buyers offer 3s. 6d.,
with sellers holding off at 7s.
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
Available for Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 2,276 Nil 3,013
1926.. 12,321 5 p.c. = 10,902 1419 1,594
1927.. 13,941 6 „ „ 13,082 859 735
1928.. 10,576 5 „ „ 10,902 1,061
1929.. 10,269 5 „ „ 10,902 1,694
1930.. 10,238 5 „ „ 10,902 2,358
1931.. 1,217 Nil 1217 1,141
Reserves.
1932.. 1,781 Nil 1781 640
The most cheerful feature of this eo.’s
affairs is that it has been able to withdraw
from unprofitable avenues of trade without
much visible loss. But so restricted are its
activities nowadays that it is proposed to
return 6s. Bd. (sterling) per £1 share,
or _ Bs. 4d. in Australian currency, on
which basis most of the assets and liabili-
ties are taken into account.
The present co., whose headquarters were
originally in London, took over Edward
Rich’s old station supply business in 1898;
an Australian co. had been handling it for
some years. Competition drove the co.’s
activities mostly from N. S. Wales to
Queensland; and there have been changes
in the nature of the business, iron-
mongery and crockery being now princi-
pally dealt in on a wholesale basis.
Direct distribution by manufacturers in
post-war years brought further sorrows
to the sales department; and the pur-
chase (involving £7500 for goodwill) of
the Queensland Agency Co.’s business in
1925 did not help matters greatly either.
Costs have been inelastic, and what with
the tariff and exchange there has been little
profit in trading, over the past two years.
The co. has been saved from balancing on
the wrong side only by returns from invest-
ments outside the business. There was not
enough to pay 1 p.c. on capital last term.
In Australian currency the return of
capital will call for £90,848. Taking invest-
ments into account at their approximate
market values, the outside debt (£7075) was
exceeded by Government securities, shares
and cash to the extent of £103,000 at June
30. But the part return of capital in ster-
ling will involve a loss of £18,170, and
visible accumulations are only £640 in excess
of goodwill. Still, in better times, freeholds,
which are included at £52,157 in the follow-
ing figures, were said to be worth double
their book value :
-|QO.? 10? n 1 QQI IQQ9
Paid capital.. £198,037 £218,037 £218,037 £218,037
Liabilities . . 16,105 20,134 11,673 7,075
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 62,390 54,242 53,695 53,350
Stocks .. 94,213 47,999 : 25,507 19,001
Debtors . . 47,410 67,076 49,526 38,709
Shares in other
cos. .. 2,007] [ 28,532 25,582
Govt, securities 12,969 \ 75,397 4 45,840 55,548
Cash . . 1,182 J L 25,469 34,343
Included with investments are shares in the
Q. N. Bank which cost the co. £14,004. At
June 30 the market value of these was £7930;
otherwise the co.’s holdings arc not over-
valued. Stocks (£19,001) were worked down
£6506 last term, and debtors (£35.709) by
£10,817.
Prospects of satisfactory dividends are
not bright, unless new avenues are opened
up to the co. The market prices the scrip
at 12s. 6d., equal to 4s. 2d. (Australian cur-
rency) after allowing for the return of
capital.
Usher’s Hotel (Sydney)
Dividends ■, Towards
Prefs. Re-
Aug, Profit.(B p.c.) Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
’22.. 17,566 560 10 p.c. - 15,600 1406 15,255
’23.. 16,539 560 10 „ „ 15,600 379 14.876
’24. . 9,391 560 6 „ „ 9,360 15,405
’25.. 10,149 560 6 „ „ 9,360 229 15,176
'26.. 10,283 500 61,, „ 10,140 15,593
’27.. 12,003 560 7* „ „ 10,920 523 15,070
’28.. 13,589 560 S „ „ 12,480 549 14,521
’29.. 9,052 560 5 „ „ 7,800 692 13,829
’30.. 10,102 560 5 „ „ 7,800 1742 12,087
’31.. 8,502 560 5,, „ 7,800 142 11,945
(6.2 p.c.)
’32.. 12,010 434 61 ~ 10,140 1436 10,509
Considering the experience of residential
hotels generally during the last 12 months,
Ushers did particularly well; it exhibited its
second-best result in the last nine years.
Turnover in all departments improved.
Gross earnings (£38,648), to which the
bar trade and dining-room have always
substantially contributed, were £5344 better;
the growth in exes. (£26,638, including
something for depreciation and taxation >
was £1836. Thus, after handing the prefs.
their reduced div., there was enough to show
7.3 on the £156,000 of ord. capital as against
5, 6.1, 5.5, 8.4, 7.3, 6.2 and 6.1 p.c. back
to 1025. So an extra 1| p.c. was distri-
buted, making 61 p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. Over the
last decade 95.2. p.c. of the net earnings
was distributed in divs. averaging 7.5 p.c..
leaving £10,509 of the capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books at Aug. 31.
That is disregarding the depreciation re-
serve (£20,400), to which £l2OO was added
during the year.
After the site of the old Metropolitan
Hotel was bought by the now-defunct Daily
Telegraph Co. in 1913, A. J. Usher built
a new Metropolitan a few doors down the
street. Then came the years .when every-
body bought his neighbor a drink, enabling
Ushers to double its capital by the issue
of £78,000 of bonus scrip in 1920 —assets
were written up £54,414 for the purpose
and it has been a struggle to pay moderate
divs. since. Maintenance of the present
rate will depend chiefly upon whether the
business continues to hold, and whether, be-
sides visible allowances for depreciation, the
expenditure upon replacements, etc., proves
to be adequate.
There has been no change worth mention-
ing in the book value of fixed assets since
1928: —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £163,000 £163,000 £163,000 £163,000
Overdraft .. 29,447 25,485 25,470 16-375
Sundry creditors 6,616 17,832 7.376 7,499
Freehold .. 151,336 161,843 161,950 161,950
Equipment .. 34,474 37,422 37,422 37,422
Stocks.. .. 5,966 6,492 3,138 2,234
Book debts .. 5,460 16,529 6,691 4,064
Cash .. .. 322 681 681 1,6;>4
Thus last year £9095 was knocked, off the
overdraft, reducing the excess of liabilities
(Continued on page J6<)


i
|i*V\
ft J&*:
M?*..
nevu
5S>
V'
m
fw.
m
Jfi
-
■
■
hfftOW
j«wr
■
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION
TREAD
ARMOURED
WALL
it.ni tnw
Standard High-Grade
MOTOR TYRE
T TOW to minimise that main cause
of tyre destruction —the terrific
heat generated by road friction—is a
problem at last mastered in the new
design Barnet Glass Tyre* . . . Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance be-
tween the stretch of rubber and cords
*.. ♦ Heat is dissipated by the fan-blade
action of the buttressed side walls.
These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, pro-
tecting it against curb cutting and
abrasion and preventing distortion
. . . . The new Caterpillar Traction
Tread maintains positive road grip
at all angles, ensures direct driving
without slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking
Barnet Glass
Tyres
Ml 2


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
# * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
iw!
mu
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
“One of the Greatest Financial
Institutions in the World”
WE do not often talk in these advertisements about
the financial strength of the A.M.P., but it will
interest members of the Society—and those
who may become members—to know what an English
Insurance weekly, “The Policy-holder,” thinks of the
A.M.P.
After referring to the “remarkably strong position” of
the Society, to last year’s surplus of £2,468,817, to the
expense ratio of 10.8 per cent, as being “much below
the usual standard for life offices” in England, and to the
investment and contingencies reserve funds, this authori-
tative journal says:
“These facts are our reason for stating that the Australian
Mutual Provident is one of the greatest financial insti-
tutions in the world, and we trust that in 1932 there will
be an increase in the applications from new members,
especially from the United Kingdom.”
Wise is the man who becomes a member of this Aus-
tralian institution that, in these glowing words, is recom-
mended to British people.
Any citizen can obtain his full share of all the benefits
that the A.M.P. bestows on its members. That share
can be large or small, according to his means.
Total Assets, £86,600,000
Annual Income, £11,260,000
Total amount returned to Policy-holders, £108,000,000
Total Cash Bonuses allotted, £54,500,000
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLIKIGWORTH, A.1.A. :
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. Actuary.
Branch Offices: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices in all btates.
A-M-P
dssets:£B6, 6oo,ooo .
Gives best possible contract.
over more or less liquids to £15,922 &t the
end of August, a net improvement of £0414
over the twelvemonth. .
On the market the pound shares, priced
at Ss. (id. early in 1931, now fetch 20s. 9d.
Excluding the depreciation reserve, the boon
value of the backing is 18s. Bd. in net tan-
gibles. The prefs. (7000 of them) seldom
come on to the market. Interest-reduction
legislation has reduced the div. to pA p.c.,
beyond which point it advances with tne
ords. to the contract rate of S p.c.
Cresco Fertilizers
. Dividends \To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
1928.. 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,400
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 'o,€ou
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,45 a 74,910
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO .. 82,910
1930.. 64.224 6 p.c.* Nil «,»10 57,614 140,029
1931.. 26,260 t Nil Nil 114,269
Profit --
193-7 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
‘lncludes 5 p.c. on 1650 old prefs. f After making
special provision (£59,000) for depreciation and
doubtful debts. {lncludes arrears.
Good rains provided plenty of sap; so,
although fewer acres were planted with
wheat, the average yield in fe Aus. was
11.4 bushels an acre as against 8.4 and hi
bushels for the two preceding seasons, lhe
export price, which had averaged only 2s. sid.
for 3930-31, improved to a little over 3s. lhe
Federal bounty (41d. per bushei) . gave a
little further help, and so did financial emer-
gency legislation and the assistance farmers
got from their own organisations.
Hence during the 12 months to June 30 this
co. (it operates three plants m S. Aus. and
one at Geelong) sold more super. Gross
earnings (£94,091) sprang £14,0il ; but the
larger trading and exchange (the latter more
than offset savings in manufacture and dis-
tribution) added £30,441 to exes. (£77,475) ,
leaving £3300 after paying two years pret.
divs. Allowing for a single year s pret.
requirements, there was enough to show
] 6 pc. on ord. capital. The previous year s
loss of £26.260 was due to special provision
(£59,000) for depreciation and doubtful
debts ; many farmers who held part ot the
1929-30 crop in the hope of better returns
became embarrassed by over-advances.
A feature of the accounts is the reduction
of debtors’ balances by no less than £311,1-3
over the last two years —it is a fine testimony
to the efforts of the farmers to meet: their
obligations: —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £290,031 £734,574 £734,624 £734,624
Liabilities •• 57,418 498,433 187,333 188,360
Fr pGnt dS "I? \ 307,474 608,211 j 462,010 446,767
Stock".. ..J 1131.22 S 188,398
Shares in other _ 90 ()01
Advances to W.A.
eo. .. . . 78,620
Debtors 69,840 602,875 350,505 291,252
Cash? etc. . . L 257 939 2,482 30,795
Last year’s surplus earnings, allowance for
depreciation, etc., and the reduction m
debtors’ balances enabled £57,170 to be added
to the book value of stocks, and cash, etc.,
to be strengthened by £28,313. Altogether
the more or less liquid surplus (£322,055,
including stocks but not shares) was £25,203
stronger than at. the previous balance.
The Westralian subsidiary (paid capital,
£312,630) showed a profit of £9217 as
against a loss of £B2OO in' the previous year,
when a special allowance of £19,500 was
made for depreciation and doubtful debts.
To meet outside liabilities of £58,797 it had
more or less liquids totalling £170,190 at
June 30, a net improvement of £31,670 dur-
ing the twelvemonth.
The immediate outlook favors a slight
strengthening of the demand for super. So
the market prices the 6 p.c. prefs. (109,685
of them) at 19s. Bd., and the ords. at 12s. 6d.
as against 16s. and ss. 6d. respectively a
year ago.
“Old Warden”: Population on the Cracow
goldfield (Q.) has jumped from a hundred or
so to 1500, most of whom at the moment
live by taking in each other’s washing.
Owners of aeroplanes are doing a brisk busi-
ness carrying mining experts and others to
the place. Also, one crowd is put with a
grandiloquent scheme for supplying power,
light and water to the field. The water is
to be pumped from the Dawson River, seven
miles away, to a reservoir; but What
power it is proposed to use to drive the
electrical generators has not yet been
divulged. Incidentally, there is not yet any
proper water supply, and the health authori-
ties are apprehensive about the coming
summer. Another question beino- discussed
is which Queensland port is going to get
the railway to Cracow, when that eldorado
changes from a prospectus to a gold-produc-
ing proposition. When Townsville and
Bowen fought for the Towers trade, Towns-
ville had the bigger purse and most political
pull, so Bowen, one of Australia’s finest har-
bors, was passed by. Competitors for the
nebulous Cracow railway are Gladstone, 216
miles away and the best natural port north
of Sydney; Rockhampton, 182 miles off and
some distance up a shallow river, but con-
nected by rail with a good harbor at Port
Stewart; Maryborough and Bundabcx-g, both
well back from the coast on small rivers,
and 212 miles and 262 miles respectively
from the field. But something much more
definite than rough prospectus guesses and
inspired vestibule gossip is required con-
cerning the quantity and bulk value of the
ore in the various lodes on the field before
the railway, etc., are likely t 0 become ques-
tions of practical politics.
On the Batavia River alluvial field, Cape
York Peninsula, the main deep lead on the
Lower Camp, which produced 53000 z. gold
during 1930 and 1931, is nearing exhaustion.
On the New Year’s Gift, the richest claim,
ihe wash, which occurs at a depth of 60ft.
and is sft. thick, is being fast depleted. On
the Hidden Treasure the working shaft is
70ft. deep, but the wash, 6in. to 18in. thick,
is spread over a considerable width. A
Huntington mill and 6-head battery will be
in operation before the end of the year, thus
providing facilities for testing the numerous
reefing prospects and low-grade wash.
Peninsula Mines, Ltd., has acquired a 20-acre
reef prospect adjoining the Hidden Treasure,
Now Year’s Gift and Golden Casket claims.
At present about 130 men are on the field.
A new route has been opened up from Wey-
mouth Bay, 63 miles away. The cost of
transport by motor-lorries is £9 per ton.
* # * *
The syndicate developing the Kilkivan mer-
cury deposits (Q.) has increased its capital
to £20,(K)0, and changed the title to Queens-
land Quicksilver, Ltd. ' For the period May
to August, inclusive, the distillation plant,
which operated on a restricted scale, recovered
3911 b. of mercury from 4 tons of ore and •>
tons of picked alluvial wash. The yield was
worth about £llO. Twenty-three bores
(average depth 30ft.) have been put down;
all showed alluvial cinnabar wash that could
be treated profitably by dredging. The addi-
tional capital is to be used in equipping the
alluvial claims and building a water dam.
* ff * *
Some promising shows are being opened
up in the Happy Valley district (Q.). At
Edenlassie Creek a shaft has been sunk 35ft.
on a strong reef 18 inches wide, with gold
showing freely. Near by three shafts, each
about 40ft. deep, are proving a 4ft. formation,
with assays up to 3oz. About 16 miles from
Proserpine an ironstone reef outcropping on
the side of a hill is being developed, and at
Mt. Hector on the Andromache River several
small crushings averaging over an ounce per
ton have been taken out.
A recent crushing of four tons from the
old Louisa, not far from the main street of
Gympie (Q.), yielded 520 z. of retorted gold.
The mine, untouched for many years, war,
taken up again in July, 1929, by the party
at present working it.
The Morobe Dredging Claims Syndicate is
endeavoring to float a co. to test the allu-
vial gold areas along the Lower Watut
River, some 20 miles downstream from the
Bulolo leases. The Morobe area can be
reached both by road and river, thus making
it independent of airplane transport.
& * * #
Westralia’s total gold production has
reached the £166.546,059 mark. Of the lot
£97,000,000 has come from Kalgporlie, and
£14,815,000 from the Mt. Margaret and
£15,240,000 from the Murchison fields. Seven
of the nine mines which have paid over a
million sterling in diva arc located at Kal-
goorlie and Boulder. They are Gt. Boulder,
£6.129,717; Ivanhoe, £3,971,250; Golden
Horseshoe, £3,652,500; Oroya Brownhill,
£2,146,241; Kalgurli, £1,618 500; Lake
View £1,566,897; Boulder Perseverance,
£1,540,897. Ivanhoe and Golden Horseshoe
are now included in the Lake View holding,
and Oroya Brownhill and Kalgurli are part
and parcel of the area held by North Kal-
gurli. The two outside the Kalgoorlie-
Boulder belt that have paid over a million
each in divs. are Sons of Gwalia and Gt.
Fingall. The Gwalia is still returning a
little to shareholders, but the Fingall ceased
to do so years ago, and the co. working it
went into liquidation.
The quick rise in the price of Wilunas
—they have more than doubled their market
value during the last few months —is attri-
buted to promising developments in the East
and the new No. 2 West lodes- In April
last disclosures on the No. 2 West were
claimed to be of major importance, and
admirers of the stock declare that the co.’s
prospects have greatly improved at depth.
Profits, including the premium, are now in
the neighborhood of £1 per ton (Australian
currency). A large proportion of present
earnings is being applied to development.
With the treatment of 40,000 tons a month
a profit of £400,000 p.a. is spoken of. Paid
capital is now £1,000,000 in pound shares,
arid there are 300,000 10 p.c. notes, redeem-
able Dec. 31, 1935, which have the option
of converting into shares.
* * * *
“Cuzinjan”: Lake View and Star, Kal-
goorlie, has recently given a lot of attention
to the improvement of. rock drilling under-
ground. The service per rock-drill per shift
has increased from 23ft. in January, 1931, to
over 38ft. at present. This improvement has
followed (1) reducing the size of drill steel
from 1-1 in. to lin., (2) adoption of standard
method of drilling out the face, (3) restrict- 1
ing firing to crib time and change of shift,.
(4) more efficient drill-shaipeiiing, and (5)
adopting a more suitable grade of explosive. 1
:Jc ❖ * $
The Hansel Mundy Co., which has fos-
sicked in Australia more than any other
mining concern the “Wild Cat” knows, is
nibbling at the Radio Deeps, which adjoins
the profitable Radio mine at Manxman on the
Yilgarn goldfield (W.A.). Two experts have
been engaged to inspect and report.
ft « * «
Nor’-west Gold Exploration is the latest
to join the horde of elaborately equipped
prospectors making for the Dead Heart of
Australia. It is a £5OOO Melbourne con-
cern. R. H. Close, a mining engineer, will
lead the expedition.
Si * * *
An option has been taken over the Trans-
vaal leases at Southern Cross (W.A.) on
behalf of London interests. The arsenic
content of the ore may, however, prove to be
a stumbling-block.
ft s # »
Silaya Tin is the latest Australian-con-
trolled Malayan concern to turn its atten-
tion to gold mining. For £75 it has secured
a six months’ working option over a five-
acre lease at Lolworth (N.Q.), where a party
is driving on payable gold at a depth of 45ft.
Crushings for July at the Welcome Mill,
Charters Towers, returned over 280 z., valued
at £9B, from 18 tons and a bit. The ground
can'ies siliceous pegmatite deposits with
small auriferous shoots. Gold won. which
will be placed in trust, becomes the co.’s
property if the option is exercised, when the
vendor is to get a further £425 cash, plus
3500 paids.
ff St ft
The International Zinc Cartel, of which
Australia is a member, reports that stocks
of zinc were reduced by over 7000 tons during
June, and that consumption was improving.
Nevertheless, a further 10 p.c. decrease in
production was arranged for as from August
1. No curtailment of output has been
made under the Cartel agreement by the
Electrolytic Zinc Co., whose production from
Barrier concentrates is being maintained at
about 4100 tons monthly.
Two new copper refineries are being
erected in England. The one at Preston.
Lancashire, will be operated by British In-
sulated Cables and will refine 1000 tons of
copper weekly from the Roan Antelope mine
in Rhodesia. The second, at Manchester,
will cost over £1,000,000; it is being erected
by Rio Tinto and Rhodesian interests. The
output of these refineries is expected to
meet the whole of Great Britain’s require-
ments for refined copper.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.M.; (1) Yes. (2) Quite sound; also policy-
holders’ interests hav e been placed in the foreground.
See 8.16/12/’3l. (3) Borrowing on a policy defeats
the object of insurance. The co., howfever, will
advance up to 90 p.c. of the surrender value at
7 p.c No. 333: Impossible to say what the rate
of tax is unless net income is known. If that is
your only income it is not taxable. Long-dated
Consols will show you a better interest return;
but their capital value in the market may fluctuate.
... .A.W.H.: The position is fully discussed in
‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly” for Oct E.W.S.: (1)
and (2) Doubtful. (3) Cannot say... .N.P.G.: (1)
When the board considers that the position has cleared
sufficiently, capital will be written down; much
depends upon what happens in connection with the
prefs. (2) Last accounts reviewed B. 24/2/’32....
(3) A reasonable spec C. J.: It is a long-term
speculation; if you cannot afford to lose, keep out.
See ‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly,” Aug., 1932 J.F.8.:
One of tlie best of the sold shows. Whether market
is overpriced at 18s. depends upon how recoveries and
costs pan out. Production is scheduled to begin next
month W.W.: (1) Both. (2) and (3) Not yet
fully measured up. Over 100,000 tons, averaging
loz. gold per ton, has been proved on lower level.
Most of this can be scraped straight into mill bins,
thus keeping costs down. (4) Cannot say. (5) At
Sept. 80 last there was £88,305 in the bank;
sundry creditors figured for £20,723. (6) A fair
speculation.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Why Not Inflation?
I can see revolution unless we solve our
unemployed problem. My suggestion is that
the Federal Government issue sufficient fidu-
ciary currency to employ all the labor of
our people; such currency to be in no way
hindered in its circulation. It’s no use say-
ing “Inflation!” and brushing it aside. What
specifically is wrong with it? —S. B. T. (Q.).
Quite right; if inflation is suggested and
we don’t inflate, it is up to somebody to
explain why. In the first place, there is
no shortage of currency. There is plenty
of credit to be got at the banks still. Money
is very cheap everywhere; in England as
little as j p.c. is being paid for deposits. The
trouble is people don’t want to borrow—
those, that is, who have security which they
can put up. The real purpose of inflation
is, not to pay labor directly, but to put up
prices, and thus cause a demand for labor.
Well, no doubt a depreciated currency
(whether depreciated by note inflation or
otherwise) does give a kick to an export
trade. We see that to-day. But as soon as
prices are put up, wages must start to creep
up; and as soon as they have crept up
enough to wipe out the advantage of the
inflation, there must be more inflation. And
so the thing goes on. If you could inflate
and stop, no great harm might be done; but
you can’t. As soon as the rise in wages
wipes out the benefit of the rise in prices
through inflation, the employer must have
more inflation or he is back just where he
was at the beginning.
The National Income
In the N.S.W. Treasurer’s Budget speech
it was said that the State expenditure was
costing 34 p.c. of the national income. How
is the national income arrived at? Does
it mean that the State Government takes
more than one-third of the earnings of all the
people? Considering that there are Federal
and local taxes, costing perhaps as much, it
doesn’t seem to me possible. It would mean
that, on the average, a man would be left
with only orie-third of his income, — Poor
Cocky.
It is not quite as bad as it looks, because
of the expenditure of 58 millions more than
one-third is on railways and tramways; and
the people pay in the shape of railway and
tram fares and freights. Another one-
fourth is interest and charges:; and most of
that is also paid' in the shape of fares and
freights and for water and other services.
Revenue from taxation amounts to only
about one-fourth the total State expendi-
ture ; the other three-fourths comes from
payments for services (railways, water-
works, etc.), from land sales and rents and
forestry royalties, etc., from the Common-
wealth (subsidy in lieu of Customs) and
miscellaneous sources (fines, fees, interest,
etc.). As to the national income, many
estimates have been made, but they are at
best only approximations based mainly on
the report of the Commissioner of Taxation,
the rates of wages and number of persons
employed and other official data. From the
total estimated to be earned in Australia
(or N. S. Wales, as the case may be) exter-
nal interest payments are deducted. Latest
official estimate of N. S. Wales “national
income” is 170 millions.
Wool and Exchange
When a woolbuyer bids for our wool, what
does he bid , in—our money or English (ster-
ling) ? Suppose a number of bales of wool
from a station are sold, at lOd. per pound,
does the owner get lOd. or more? If he,
gets more, inhere does the difference come
from?— F. N. K.(S.A.).
He bids in Australian money. But be-
cause Australian money is depreciated—
£l2s Australian being worth only £lOO Eng-
lish —the overseas buyer can afford to bid
in Australia Is. for. what would be worth
only plus freight and charges in Eng-
land. The woolgrower has nothing to do
with exchange directly. He gets paid with
a cheque on an Australian bank. If the
foreign woolbuyer has not made full allow-
ance for exchange in making his bid, he
gets the benefit. If he has made full allow-
ance, the grower gets the benefit. It is
claimed, of course, that competition com-
pels the buyer to give the grower the full
benefit.
The Public-service Vote
At a local meeting I stumbled into a sug-
gestion in favor of segregating the public-
service vote, as approved by The Bulletin,
and, when / was attacked, found it hard to
justify such a measure. What is the case
for it? —J. N. (Vic.).
On the latest count (see “Official Year-
Book,” 1931, p. 43) there were 214,079 per-
sons in the public service in Australia, and
that excludes temporary employees except in
certain specific cases; also part-time em-
ployees. The total can be put at close on
quarter of a million; and a great many
of these quarter-million have wives and
daughters of voting age. The total number
of voters enrolled for the House of Reps,
was (same authority, p. 31) 3,118,030. The
position of the public servant is that he
is both master and servant. In scores of
electorates he has power of political life and
death over the local members, who are
squeezed into making further concessions to
the service. Further, if the public service
is interested in fighting for Smith, who has
promised further concessions, as against
Jones, who has refused, the public servant
is in many places in a position to use a
great deal of influence with people outside
the service. Until not so long ago certain
public servants were debarred from partici-
pation in politics; but, granted that they are
entitled to the franchise, their position as
public servants requires that they should have
special representatives. Then Parliament
would know what value to place upon these
men’s representations. If a farmer is recom-
mended. by a Government inspector to do a
certain thing, he is inclined to do it because
he knows that the inspector is disinterested.
But if the inspector was pecuniarily inter-
ested in something he recommended, the
farmer would be on his guard—if he knew
it. That is much the position in Parlia-
ment. Members who are governed by the
public-service vote ought to be plainly
branded as public-service representatives.
“Let's Do Something”
Your proposal to issue Production Certifi-
cates suffers from the same inherent weak-
ness as many other schemes to absorb the
unemployed; it begins at the wrong end —
the producing end. And you admit that what
we suffer from is a glut of goods, not a
famine. —F. B. H. (Q.).
But the Production Certificates we propose
to issue are really Purchasing Certificates. The
whole object is to supply men with purchas-
ing power; how they can get that without
working for it we don’t know. We proposed
that, say, 10,000 men should be put on at all
sorts of productive and distributing jobs;
that they should be paid in Purchasing Cer-
tificates ; that the materials they used should
be similarly paid for; that the retailer
should be likewise paid for his services. Thus
Purchasing Certificates exactly equal to the
retail price of the goods produced would be
issued. In other words, it would be a vast
system of barter simplified ; the foundation
of it all would be issue of Purchasing
Power precisely equal to the retail value of
the goods produced.
Getting the Unemployed to Work
The weak point in your scheme to absorb
the unemployed in industry seems to be
that, in the likely event of those who found,
work making boots failing to produce goods
to the value of the award in that industry,
they would have to be given purchasing cer-
tificates in excess of the value of this labor,
or else it would be necessary to scrap the
award; and that seems impossible. —,T. H.
(Q-).
The plan suggested was to engage unem-
ployed men in industry and pay them with
Production Certificates, which would be
available for the purchase of goods or ser-
vices of any kind for which payment had
been made with similar certificates. It
would not be necessary to attack wages in
any way: it would really be a system of
barter, and what price was paid for the
workers’ labor would not matter at all so
long as all were paid according to the same
standard. No doubt if the men put on in,
say, the bootmaking trade loafed on the
job, so that an excessive price had to be
paid in certificates for these boots, then
boots would not be bought, and unemployed
bootmakers would cease to benefit. No
doubt there are weaknesses in the scheme;
but if we wait till we find the perfect one
our unemployed will never get a job.
Grazier and Merchant
You have several times said that the city
manufacturer or merchant can he quite as
i badly off as the grazier—that if the grazier
is getting no interest, the city business is in
most cases paying no dividend. But isn’t
there this big difference — isn’t the grazier
paying out interest (or being charged with
it), while the city man is simply missing
his dividend? —S. P. Alba.
If the grazier is paying interest he is pay-
ing it on something he doesn’t own; and that
is a horrible fact which few of us are pre-
pared to face. The merchant or manufac-
turer, if he doesn’t own his stock or his
plant, has to pay interest in precisely the
same way as the grazier. On what he does
own the city man is liable to go pretty well
as short these days as the grazier.
Deflation
A letter in the “Fortnightly Review,” stat-
ing the case for the Dominions in respect of
the disabilities imposed by the fall in com-
modity prices, makes a definite attack on
the Bank of England for its policy of de-
flation, begun in 1926. It is argued that
England, being a debtor of America and
other gold-standard countries, is “squeezing”
the Dominions, and in turn is being mulcted
by the gold-hoarding creditor. As it is obvi-
ous that someone, usually gains at another’s
expense when credits are called in, to what
extent does the Lung-planners' argument
hold reason? — Undecided (Vic.).
But you don’t have to be a Lang-plamici'
to disapprove of the action of the Bank of
England in returning to the gold standard
in 1925. Many eminent bankers were
opposed to it. The ex-Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Reginald McKenna, said that it
was a policy of deflation —of price-depres-
sion—and that, since it would probably not
be accompanied by a reduction of costs, it
would fail. Later he described the opera-
tion : “Measures were adopted which raised
the exchange value of sterling, but had no
immediate and proportionate effect in lower-
ing our internal prices. The transition to
gold thus seriously impaired our export
trade.” Again, he said, before the change
was made: “Someone else may urge you
to reduce the amount of money and bring
down prices to the pre-war level or to such
other arbitrary level as he happens to think
the right one. Yes, and trade will remain
depressed and the unemployed will be with
you all the time. Moreover, the burden of
the national debt, with the higher value of
money, will become intolerable, and no Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer will be able to
balance his Budget.” Perhaps four-fifths of
the world is agreed that if prices could be
lifted we should be well on the way out of
our troubles. It is only then the real differ-
ence begins. The Lang-planner says : Repu-
diate your debts. Default on your interest.
Set up in place of the gold standard a goods
standard. On that last point McKenna
wrote: “It is a real advantage to a nation
to have a currency founded upon a value
which is universally recognised; it inspires
confidence and facilitates international
transactions. Even if the gold standard
were not preferable for other reasons its
universality would be decisive in its favor. . ,
There is no single nation, so far as I know,
which is now off the gold standard that does
not regard the return to it as the most desir-
able of all financial measures.” But, while
almost all bankers and economists would
retain the gold standard, many would keep
the price of gold constant in relation to
commodities; and of that method The Bul-
letin approved long ago.
THE DEADLY DRUG.
“The missionaries encourage the natives to concentrate around the mission station, where they offer them rations. Such
natives tend to become ‘hangers-on’ and to lose their skill in fending for themselves.” —Professor Firth.
“The Government has made an army of mendicants who are willing to live on the doIe.”—A.S.W. Rescue Society.
KING BILLY: “Keep off it, Boss. Look what it’s done to my people.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal ‘.‘Macbeth”
Hek Majesty's ‘‘Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King’s “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
The initial difficulty the player of Shaks-
peare has to contend with in these times is
that the speeches put into his mouth arc
manifestly unreal. People don’t speak in
verse, blank or rhymed, nor do they inter-
lard their commonest observations with
choice flights of imagery. In the Bard’s day
the stage was expected to strut on stilts,
but his advice about holding the mirror up
to Nature has beeix laid to heart, and in
this year of grace the proscenium is more
often than not the frame of a colorable imi-
tation of reality. Some compromise with
tradition is essential if, in present circum-
stances, sufficient illusion of authenticity is
to be imparted to a Shaksperean production
to render digestible its vigorous drama and
masterly characterisations. Lewis Casson,
in staging “Macbeth,” produced at Sydney
Royal on Saturday, has effected such a com-
promise without doing the play any sei’ious
damage.
Magnificent is a word that should be used
sparingly, but it can be applied, coupled
with simplicity and dignity, to the series of
pictures presented. Ricketts, R. A., has de-
signed a pageant in tune with the loftiness
of Elizabethan stage diction, an achievement
which wins half the battle, and the balance
of the credit for an extraordinarily vivid
and effective presentation must be given to
the actors. Casson’s Macbeth, impossible
as the feat may sound, succeeds in making
the audience more than a little sorry for
the fear-ridden tyrant who bathed Scotland
in blood. An even greater feat is the
manner in which Sybil Thorndike humanises
and makes understandable the character of
Lady Macbeth. The deepest tragedy of
these twain, we are constrained to perceive,
lies in their affection for each other.
Casson speaks most of his lines vei’y
rapidly, which seems natural in a character
driven so hard by conscience and imagina-
tion. Dame Sybil, on the other hand, makes
tragedy with deliberate speech and impres-
sive pauses and silences. The awful night
on which Duncan was murdered becomes
real. Its atmosphere of horicr reaches out
across the footlights and grips the audience.
The knocking at the gate supplies the
carefully built-up climax to a tremendously
powerful situation.
Minor r6les are all capably presented, but
the Malcolm of Donald Eccles stands out as
a particularly apt impersonation. The
scenes with the witches, coixducted in murky,
gloom, deepen the atmosphere of eeriness
that pervades this production, and. the inci-
dental music by Bantock plays an important
part.
* ¥ #
“Hold My Hand,” which has supplanted
“Bitter Sweet” at Sydney Her Majesty’s,
meanders along at a desultory pace for quite
a while after the rise of the curtain, and
it is not until Cyril Ritchard and Cecil Kel-
laway appear that the play shows signs of
life. Until then Leo Franklyn, in the guise
of a comic valet, has command of the stage,
but an uninspired script gives this clever
little comedian few opportunities of bright-
ness. Ritchard and Kellaway enter in fancy
dress —the first as Dick Whittington and
the other as Robinson Crusoe —and in a
state of alcoholic merriment. Their clown-
ing is effective. Ritchard is cast as a rich
young fellow who acts as a guardian to a
female he has never seen. He believes his
ward to be a gawky schoolgirl, whereas she
is Madge Elliott. This misunderstanding on
the guardian’s part is the cause of a number
of amusing situations. The ward mistakes
the valet for her guardian and he has an
exciting time dodging her advances. As a
further there is a society belle
who is engaged to Ritchard, but pines
for his best friend, Pop Curry (Frank
Leighton), a newspaper editor. Cecil Kella-
way is the belle’s papa, a wine-b’bber and
purloiner of his wife’s jewellery, who hovers
continually in the background putting spokes
into people’s wheels. The plot, such as it
is, rapidly disappears beneath a sea of
singing and dancing, and only emerges again
at the end when there is a triple wedding.
The dancing, as was to be expected, is the
brightest feature of the show. Among the
minor lights Elved Jay deserves honorable
mention for his liumorous study of a discon-
tented employee, Arthur Connell for his por-
trayal of a simple-minded old codger, Rene
Murphy for her handling of the part o'f a
worried female secretary, Mary Rigby for
her picture of a petulant mother-in-law, and
Zeppel and Bush for their eccentric dancing.
The ballet was more than up to the mark.
* * *
Sydney tenor Bryson Taylor, whose voice
is well known to listeners-in, proved his
versatility and his knowledge of popular taste
in a recital at the School of Arts. In this
he ranged from Morley to Quilter among the
English lyricists; sang “Deeper and Deeper
Still,” Handel’s most dramatic recitative;
flitted from this to the “Nari’ation” from
“Lohengrin,” and from that to the three
most celebrated Schubert, lieder, modeim-
ising the assoitment with excerpts from
Lehar’s “Count of Luxemboui’g” and “Fred-
erica” and with a group of songs l'ecently
introduced to us through the talkies by
Richard Taubei - . Mr. Taylor’s voice is
richer in the lower and middle registers than
that of most tenoi’S, for which he has to
pay the penalty of a change in quality at the
top of the scale, but he manages his re-
soui’ces very cleverly. Supporting artists
were that vei’y sound ’cellist Athos Martelli
and young James McAulay, the pianistic
hope of Carlton Fay’s studio. Mendelssohn
wrote his celebrated Andante and Rondo
Capriccioso at the age of 17, and most latter-
day musicians must have wondered in what
manner he played it at that immature age.
McAulay supplies wliat must be very near,
the answer. His digital facility is remark-
able, and there is an element of fresh, breezy
boyishness in his playing that is very charm-
ing.
An ex-silent moving-picture “palace” in
Melbourne’s Bourke-street—in other words,
a narrow tunnel between two shops with a
newly-gilded front, a Life Guardsman
spruiker in full working order and a new
name; the Times Theatrette. It is the
novelty of the present and claims to be the
newspaper of the future. Lud Mayor Gen-
goult Smith supplies the editorial. “Thanks
to the enterprise of the management this
great cultural —ow-err.” The Lord Mayor
lias suddenly been stricken with paralysis.
His mouth' is wide open, his smile has
become fixed. Everybody, except the manage-
ment laughs. “Ow-err. This great cultutal
addition to the intellectual life of our fair —
ow-err.” The operator gives Gengoult Smith
up as a bad job. “H.R.11. inspects a £300,000
extension to a hospital. 1 have the greatest
pleasure in.... Stop pi’ess, stop press.” We
are at the Melbourne Show Ground. Fat bul-
locks, gigantic Clydesdales, beautiful gii’ls
on beautiful hacks. Empire Conference at.
Ottawa. Platitudes by George, R. 1., re-
peated by Governoi'-General. Platitudes by
R : ght Hon. Stanley Baldwin. Platitudes by
Right Hon. R. P,. Bennett. All’s right with
the Empire, at any rate. E. M. Newman, the
world-famous raconteur, takes us for a travel
talk over Soviet Russia. What queer hats
they wear! Didn’t know they looked like
that. Market at Nijni-Novgorod. Just like
the Melbourne mai’kets, after all. The Rus-
sians must be human beings, too. Pleasure
palace of the ex-Czar Nicholas. Very like
the State Theatre, with a touch of Luna
Park. Bang! Crash! B-r-r! Kayo Don is
putting up a new speed-boat l'ecord on Loch
Lomond. Two miles a minute. Good old
Don. Making the world smaller. We’ll all
soon be sitting on each other’s knees. The
most up-to-date warship in the world, on
its way to join the French Navy at 31
knots. 11.R.H. Dxxke of Connaught review-
ing troops. Safety device for aeroplanes.
“ MACBETH” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
(Top to bottom, left to right ) Lewis Casson as Macbeth; Bruce Winston as the
Porter; Dame Sybil Thorndike as Lady Macbeth;-Donald Eccles as Prince Mal-
colm; Atholl Fleming as Macduff.
The parachute chair. You sit in it, you are
pushed off. yoix turn upside down, right-
side up, the pai’achute opens and you go
floating down as comfortable as if you were
sitting by your drawing-room fire. Glorious
Goodwood, marred by. rain. Gallant firemen
saving amusement park at Coney Island.
Metrotone Olympic Special. Clare Dennis,
the plucky Australian girl, wins the breast-
stroke final. Co-eds bake giant shortcake at
city of Lebanon, strawberry metropolis of
the United States. One million devout pil-
grims at Eucharistic Conference in Dublin
assemble to receive the benediction from his
Holiness, through the medium of Cardinal
Lowrie. Mayor Walker, of New York, faces
legislative probe. Prince Michael, of Rou-
mania, being educated to.be. king. Semi-,
final of the 'great marbles • tournament of
the United States, won by Suffolk K, Strom-
son, aged ten. J. D. Rockefeller, .Tunr.,
addresses English Empire ’banquet. Inter-
national co-operation. Ultimately girdle the
globe, extending its beneficent influence ,td
the farthest confines of the.... Mussolini
reviews parade of Fascist youth. James A.
Fitzpatrick takes us Over the Seas to
Borneo. Population of 3,000,000. Head-
hunters. Second largest island in world.
White men serving their King in swelter-
ing, blistering tropic heat. E-e-e-e-e.
Ah-ah-ah-ah. Aboriginals at Mount Leibig,
250 miles west of Alice Springs, engaged in
initiation ceremony, its secrets disclosed for
the first time through the enterprise of the
Times Theatrette. President Hoover giving
his message of hope to the great nation
whose dedicated servant he is. Unquestion-
ably and beyond any measure of doubt....
Could you have anything more reassuring
than that? Will patrons who have com-
pleted the session kindly vacate their seats?
Like fireflies dim shades with torches flit
along the aisles, guiding invisible ghosts
through the heavy, tropical atmosphere,
laden with strange scents. Ghosts stumblo
over your feet or put their unseen hands on
your face, and withdraw them hastily and
with a muttered apology. A silent sword of
golden light plunges over your head to break
in .words and images against the unseen wall.
Lud -Mayor Gengoult Smith again. “This
great cultural addition to the intellectual
00-00-err-err”....
* * ¥
John Simons, Mus. Bac., a rising young
pianist of Melb. Uni. Con., of whom great
things are hoped, was given a farewell at
the Town Hall last week. Simons’s 1 opening
gambit was a panel of works, not all of
them distinguished, which he played with
delicacy and intelligence. In the Branden-
burg concerto of Bach and the Rachmaninoff
edncerto in C minor he showed the true
mettle of the artist. The Rachmaninoff
was substituted for a Mozart concei’to at
the last moment, owing to insufficient re-
hearsal by the symphony orchestra, but
S'mons was thoroughly at ease in the com-
plicated rhythms of the modern work. He
lias talent and a capacity for hard work.
* * H-
Larger audiences than usual have been
waiting at Melb. Palace to hear the great
Australian adjective fall- from the lips of a
stage parson in the last lines of Lonsdale’s
“Aren’t We All?” Miss.Bramley’s presenta-
tion of the story of the married lady who
succumbed (partially) to the perfumed
Egyptian moon and the protestations of a
young Australian differs from the Bouci-
cault-Vanbrugh version, but is very, little.the
worse for that. Miss B.’s broad humanity
is quite capable of embracing such a char-
acter as the Hon. Mrs. Tatliam, even if
some of the lady’s flounces get crushed in
the embrace. Ronald Riley makes an ex-
cellent fist of Lord Grenham. who feels in
honor bound to confirm a false announce-
ment of his engagement in the “Times.” Hon.
Willie Tatliam and Lady Frinton are in the
safe custody of John Cameron and Mar-
guerite Adele.
* * *
Old-timers voted the opening performance
of the Gilsullivanites at Melb, Royal Al.
From start', to finish “The Gondoliers” went
with a bang. The season should make a
continuous hit if it isn’t too long.
Adelaide Repertory recruited , its fifth
short-play / evening from local talent. The
prize-winner, Marian Simons, set the action
of her comedy, “Casabianca,” in a broad-
casting station, . and. made it full of fun.
The announcer (Basil Harford) is tied to
his desk while the Italian tenor (Ronald
Simpson) tries to steal his girl (Thelma
Baulderstone) ; and there is real humor in
the finish, where, with all misunderstandings
removed, she snuggles on to his lap while he
impassively reads out the market reports.
This piece deserves a wider public. James
Glennon’s “The Ante-room” introduces a
kindly .Death, with Frank Johnston dominat-
ing the scene; and in Joan Kimmont’s “Exit
the Joker.” a bounder loved by all the girls
and hated by all the men. meets a sticky
finish in a drawing-room game.
SHADOW SHOWS.
There is some finished acting in “Grand
Hotel” at the St. James. It is doubtful if
anyone could have done Preysing as 'well as
Y\ allace Beery; he is the coarse-fibred Boche
sensualist in every respect. Lionel Barry-
more is a little disappointing as Kringelein.
lie retains a good deal of himself in all his
parts. In this one his make-up and ges-
tures are those of an elderly clerk with an
inferiority complex, but somehow he isn’t
that kind of man behind his disguise. John
Barrymore, as the philandering thief, and
Lewis Stone, as the morally-ruined doctor,
are straight out of the book. Joan Craw-
ford is mis-cast as the typist. With her
self-confident face and manner and genius
for putting on clothes she no more resembles
a German fraulein of the working classes
than she doe.s an Eskimo; but, of coui’se, she
lias her public, no matter what part she
gives a representation of herself in. Greta
Garbo creates a disconcertingly comic effect
as the passion-ravaged dancer Grusinskaya.
She spends a good deal of her time sweeping
in and out of the hotel, followed by hex-
cringing manager, prim dresser, pages carry-
ing loads of flowers and other appurten-
ances of the publicity-chasing star of farce.
Her figure, beautiful though it is in its long-
lined way, isn’t made for the girlish pii’oxiet-
tings she indulges in at the thought of hex-
great love. Altogether she supplies a very
fair burlesque of the kind of artist she is
supposed to be. The plot of Vicki Baum’s
best-seller has been followed closely, and the
life of a great hotel is recreated in marvel-
lous detail.
* * H-
If you like Buster Keaton you’ll like
“Speak Easily” at Sydney State. As a
melancholy little university professor who
thinks-he has inherited quarter of a million
dollars (he hasn’t, it is a hoax), and backs
a dud musical-comedy show, he is a riot —
or a depression-party. It's all a matter of
the point of view. The writer is one of his
admirers, and got infinite amusement from
his asininities, but doesn’t deny that there
may be much to be said for the point of view
of the “stout man a couple of places away
whose “ coxxixtenance registered unrelieved
gloom. Jimmy Durante and Thelma Todd
repeat the business with which they have
been winning guffaws for years, as members
of the' company which gets to Broadway and
makes, the professor’s fortune. The tempo
•of the work suggests a speedboat in noise
as : well as velocity.
‘ “Monte Carlo Madness,” oix the same bill,
is a Ufa production with a Geimaix hex-o, a
Russian heroine and a couple of English
cbmedians. It is an extravaganza, and cor-
respondingly festive in treatment. Some off
the-sets are amazing—lessons to the world
iii their line. How the photographer got the
shots of Monte Carlo and its waterfront,
■with the inhabitants bolting from the threat-
ened bombardment, is a mystery to at least
one spectator. Hans Albers, as the naval
captain, is the blot on the proceedings. He
is' s loutish, fortyish aixd handsome on actor-
ish lines, but he has the exuberant ways of
the deadliest kind of American college boy.
and his accent is uglier than Garbo’s. He
wears a variety of costumes, and evidently
loves himself best in belted trousers and
shirt open at the neck, the traditional garb
for nautical heroics. Said Maritza, who por-
trays a Ruritanian queexx on conventional
lines, has a nice speaking voice, bxxt there
is nothing impressive about her appearance.
* # -v.
A Melbourne Showman says they’re all
out of step :
“I saw in the ‘Argus’ that ‘As You
Desire Me’ at Melbourne State (it is also
at Sydney Capitol) had ‘captured Piran-
dello’s intention of giving the audieixee food
for reflection,’ and went along. The ‘food
for reflection’ turned out to be a shoddy
melpdrama, replete with every stale cliche
known to the theatrical pi-ofession since
Euripides. Far from crediting Pirandello
with its authorship, I wouldn’t insult the
memory' of ' the late Edgar Wallace by sug-
gesting that he might have had a hand in
it. The Italian playwright’s ‘uncanny skill
iix the jugglery of ideas And his superb know-
ledge of the theatre’ (‘Herald’) were repi’e-
sented by devices that would have revolted
Bland Holt. Greta Gai’bo’s actixxg, accord-
ing to the ‘Age,’ is ‘superb’; accord-
ing to the ‘Herald,’ ‘splendid.’ The ‘Argus’
spoke of her ‘artistry’ and of her ‘pei’son-
ality,’ which ‘is always a controversial sub-
ject because of her extraordinary gift of
appearing at the same time attractive and
uixattractive.’ Judged by any criterion of
the legitimate stage, she is a commonplace
barnstormer. Her voice is the voice of a
frog at the bottom of a pond. She doesn't
kixow how to hold her hands or sxxstain an
emotion for more than a couple of seconds.
If she lias sex appeal so has a petrol bowser.
Her art is that of the cheapest stage vul-
garian, and mainly consists of wearing
absurd clothes that look as if they would
fall off at any moment. Not that it would
be very thrilling if they did, unless there
are special talkie standards l’elating to the
female figure.”
.¥ 9 ¥
“The Doomed Battalion,” at Sydney
Lyceum, resembles .other war pictures in
ways: it excels in its restraint and in the
beauty of the shots amid the snow, blizzards
and avalanches of the Austro-Italian fron-
tiei*. Luis Trenker (a powerful actor this)
has been for a year fighting within sight of
his owix village, which is held by the enemy.
Then he is ordered on espionage duty to the
village. He could have seen his wife and
son, deserted and rexpained safe as a prisoner,
but despite his wife’s' pleas, and with-
out seeing, lxis baby, he, returns to save his
mates from being, destroyed by a mine. So
the fight goes on. Tala Birell, who looks
like a youthful edition of Pauline Frederick,
has little to do but be pathetic and beauti-
ful. There is a large cast of capable heroes
who speak little and do a lot. The contrast
between the • German and the Hollywood
method of presenting a’ German story is in-
teresting. The German director of “The
Last Company” made his - actors use un-
naturally pei’fect English; in this film Carl
Laemmle makes his Austrians and Italians
speak broken English.


SPRING AND
SUMMER SEASON 1932
cWi?
Q|ff§
\
odm
'll
HOSIERY BY PRESTIGE —chosen for outstanding qualities
and exclusive features—Refinements that give beauty, service
and comfort. Prestige Creations are offered to you in a series of
new and beautiful tonings.
QUALITY CREATIONS
No. 505 —Genuine DULL Grenadine
Sheer Per pair
\n
No. 405 —Powderbloom DULL Service
Sheer Per pair
9li
BY PRESTIGE INCLUDE:
No. 800 —The Popular Service Weight
Per pair
106
No. 70C —An excellent Heavy Service
Weight of Pure Silk and Rayon Per pair
/.
HOSIERY
| umi||||m:jj||| , iuil
K6’\
A N
AU S T
A
'III I,
I I 1
L. .1
A N
CREATION


“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
NOW ON SALE,
The new spirit of confidence.
Will it carry prices much
further?
What about reaction?
The valuation of securities.
Great care now needed.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the October issue,
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Plum Razor Guard
v ■■ yy%
l
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and fin.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle ....... 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 16/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—finr and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
sdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
•u
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 4f Bridge Street, Sidney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Y. McSliarkski”: “Dai R.’s” experience
with a curlew’s egg (B. la/9/’32) reminds
me of an experiment I carried out many
years ago. I found a shark’s egg cast up
at Full Moon Bay, on the South' Coast
(N.S.W.). I had a broody turkey at the
time and nay wife jokingly suggested I put
it under Nelly. I did. The incubation
period passed in one of this State’s worst
heat waves, and Sophia, the sliarkling. was
on the point of death when I slipped her
into the pond. In a few days ducklings,
hatched by the same foster-mother, were
also swimming in the pond. So far as I
knew, Sophia was dead. When the duck-
lings were five weeks old one disappeared.
Every week after that another disappeared.
In 15 weeks there were none. I knew
Sophia was aliye. I told my wife. She left
for Sydney to live with her mother. I now
had a free hand. Sophia was fed daily on
the contents of the poultry-run while it
lasted. The pond had to be enlarged to
a lake. Then one day Sophia leapt out of
the water after a dragon-fly. I saw her
clearly for the first time. She had a wonder-
ful set of teeth on the top jaw and none bn
the bottom—otherwise T did not like her. I
set three lines baited with' her usual food and
waited four weeks. Then I baited the line
with dragon-flies. The three hooks were
inside her when I hauled her out. The
museum took her jaws, a Chinaman joy-
fully accepted her body, and my' wife, who
now returned, had a coat made of her skin.
“E.S.S.”: Like the teamster, the mounted
wanderer has no encomiums for the motorist.
“Ask him where there’s a bit o’ pickin’ for
the mokes, an’ he dunno,” grumbled an old
pack-horse traveller. “The motor doesn’t
want grass, an’ all it drinks is ile. One
rattled up behind old Hurricane Joe the other
day. Hurricane used to be a teamster —
outed by motors, an’ got a mortal set on
’em ever since. ‘Know where there’s any
petrol?’ asks the car bloke. ‘Yes,’ says .Toe.
‘Keep straight on till you come to a turn
off to the right, follow that to a creek, run
the creek down to a main road’. . . . ‘Wait a
bit,’ says the bloke, an’ he writes it all down.
‘What then?’ he asks. ‘Keep goin’,’ says
Joe, ‘an’ in about a week you’ll come to
Roma. I hear they’ve just struck some ile
there,’ An’ then Joe slews down a gully
to look for a bit o’ saltbush.”
* * * *
“Mako”: A remote bush holding near
Mercury Bay (M.L.) is haunted in a pecu-
liar way. The manifestation takes place in
the evening, just about dusk, when there
may be heard the sound of a heavy, clank-
ing vehicle being drawn at top speed along
a very rough track by two or more galloping
horses. There is nothing to be seen. The
sound dies away in the distance, leaving
a newcomer dumbfounded. As the spectral
waggon and horses make their wild journey
through what is, and probably always has
been, impenetrable forest, no theory as to its
origin has been ventured but that of the
Maoris, who blame a taipo.
“Tidapa”: Mention of the blowpipe being
discovered in the Mandated Territory for
the first time (“Curare,” B. 7/9/’32) recalls
a circumstance of
Captain Cook’s in-
troduction to the
Papuan. When he
landed in Dutch
New Guinea in
1770, brown men
gathered menac-
ingly on the shore.
He was *forced to
return to his ship
and land further
along the coast. In
his journal he re-
ports that the
natives “threw
dar ts , made of
thin bamboo, and
pointed with hard-
wood, in which
there were many
barbs. Possibly
these may have
been shot from a
bow, but we saw
no sign of a bow
amongst them. The
natives also let off
fires. What these
fires were, and for
what purpose in-
tended, we could
not imagine. Those
who dis c h arged
them had in their
hand a short piece
of stick, possibly a
hollow cane, which
they swung side-
ways from them,
and we saw imme-
diately fire and
smoke exactly re-
sembling those of a
musket and of
no longer dura-
tion.” Cook was
usually very authen-
tic in detail, so it
appears that the
darts he mentioned may have been dis-
charged from blowpipes, but I have yet to
meet anyone who can explain the “fires.”
* * * *
“Tulka”: The best abo. fish-traps I’ve
seen were those built by the now-extinct
Port Lincoln tribe around the shores of
Proper, Dutton and
Coffin Bays, on Eyre
Peninsula, S.A. They
consisted of walls of
loose stones, built close
to the shore in rings,
something like those of
a maze. When the
tide flowed fish would
find their way into
them and be trapped
when it ebbed again,
but if this failed the
whole tribe would
wade into the water
and proceed to drive
fish into the traps.
Each person carried a
spear with a bunch
of leaves tied to the
tip. and the shoals of
whiting, mullet, salmon
and ruffs were driven
in the right direction
by letting the shadow
of this bunch of leaves
fall on the water
ahead of them. The
same rules had to be
observed as. are used
in working sheep—
take them steadily,
don’t work too close,
and never allow them
to break back. When
the fish were safely
within the walls tlie
bucks would jump in-
side and proceed to
catch them right and
left with single
snatches of each bare
hand —-a marvellous
exhibition of dexterity
and skill. Their heads
crushed between black-
fellows’ teeth, the
dead fish would be tossed ashore to the
waiting women and kiddies. When the last
had been caught, fires were lit, the fish were
grilled on the coals, and all hands had a
blow-out.
* : !' #
“Nokim-ban-Dee”: “Yarri-bandi’s” expla-
nation o'f the name “Never Never” (B.
31/8/’32) is all wrong. My grand-uncle,
who was the uncrowned king of those ding-
bat parts, was the originator of the term.
He was a super-fisherman. His bait—
worms mostly, and a few prawns—came on
ice from Sydney and Adelaide. One spring
he left his iced bait on the verandah, th»w-
ing in the sun. When he went to get it
an hour later there were only 48 worms and
15 prawns. Not far away were three mag-
UPS AND DOWNS
“Wha’s up down there?”
“Dang old horse be down, tha’s wha’s up.”
pies, suspiciously bloated. My grand-uncle,
despising the difficulty of the process, caught
them. Exactly dividing the decimated bait
among them, he held the fish food before
each one, demanding harshly, “Will you ever
eat worms or prawns again?” Then thrust-
ing the stuff down those groggy throats he
shouted “Never ! Never !” Before the 26th
worm had disappeared the staggering birds
were feebly echoing “Never Never.” After
they had recovered from their frightful
experience, the magg'ies fled frenziedly into
the bush. For 20 years after the mournful
cry of “Never! Never!” was frequently
heard.
* * * *
“H'oni Pikau” : In an address to his con-
stituents old Wiri te Kumara, the sitting
member for Waipipiwahine, spoke long and
with great eloquence. The Opposition
member, Henare Waipiro, was not a whit
behind the rest of the audience in enthusias-
tically applauding the orator. Wiri con-
cluded his discourse with a masterly review of
the financial position, rattling off millions
like a financier born. “You wrong, Wiri.
you wrong!” chortled Henare as the speaker
wound up with a batch of gigantic totals.
‘You ’pout two pob out.”
* * =1: *
“Blanky Downs”: The barmaid of my
bosom blubbered when she pointed to an
advertisement in a Sydney, paper which
asked for two lambs for Taronga Zoo. “I
suppose,” she wept, “that the little darlings
will be fed to snakes or tigers or some-
thing.” To my knowledge, the lady has
never been further west from Sydney than
Burwood, so I inquired. She admitted she
had got her ideas of lambs from a recent
Buixetin cartoon by Ted Scorfield. Years
of exposure to the young of the sheep .have
convinced me that it is more unendurable
from all points of view than the old gentle-
man of the species. The latter—and I in-
clude his lady companions—has learned in
musterings and draftings that every respect-
able sheep shall do its duty. The lamb,
after marking and weaning, at any rate,
is in quite a different category. Once in
the past, being without a dog. I spent a
hot morning trying to get 500 weaners
through a gateway 25ft. wide. I tried all
the old familiar tricks, but always the
leader, after the gate had been packed,
stamped his foot, refused to go through and
broke off, followed by his mates. My nerve
must have gone, for the next thing I recall
was lying on the ground with the nose of
the nark lamb between my teeth. Tears
were running through the dust on my face
as the boss rode up. “Is this the way you
handle my stud weaners ?” he demanded in
a bitter tone. I issued a comprehensive
invitation to him to try it himself and left.
He couldn’t do it, of course, and by the
time he asked where I had gone, after he
came back to the station, the address was
“on the Augathella-road, and bless you.”
TRAVELLERS’ TALES
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The prospector who reported the discovery of a
colony of monkeys in an unexplored section of Cape
Vork Peninsula refuses to admit that he mistook
the tree-climbing kangaroo {.Guscus phalanger) for a
bona-fide ape. He offers to lead a party to the
spot and to back his opinion with a substantial
wager.”
They swung in the trees as brisk as you please.
’Way up on the roof of Australia,
And he knew by their shapes they were
genuine apes,
Not wandering marsupialia.
But the scientist, crowd laughed hearty and
loud,
And they said, more in sorrow than anger:
“No simians these
That he glimpsed in the trees;
’Twas merely old Guscus phalanger. ,
“He’s a perfectly true and indigenous Too,
Though he dosses aloft like a rooster,,
With his tail hanging down, as the hair
that’s the crown
Of a flapper’s attractiveness useter.
Though he shins up a trunk with the speed
of a monk.,
tie’s nothing at all but a kangar.;
His ’possum-like traits
There’s no-one gainsays,
But his label is Guscus phalanget.
“This tale about apes on our northerly capes
We won’t entertain for a minute.
Get out! Go along ! His rum was too strong.
Inadequate water was in it.
What, simian strays that some shipwrecked
Malays
Had destined for Wirth or for Sanger?
Out on such a darn
Preposterous yarn !
It’s a slur on our Guscus phalange)-.”
A RUSH JOB.
"Too many children, Jacky—Mary is having too many children.”
“Couldn’ waste time, Missus — white-pfeller tellit black-pfeller all die out soon.”
And may be it’s so. But, well, I dunno.
There’s fauna exotic inhabits
Our country and thrives and robustly sur-
vives
In plenty, from camels to rabbits.
And the only sure way to settle and stay
The clamor of tongues and the clangor
Is to take the old bird
From the bush at his word
And find if his monkey, alleged and averred,
Is dinkum —or Guscus phalanger.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


c £>He
Stanley
Unbreakable
ft STANLEY (
Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of steel
end lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling hot
for 18 hours, and icy
cold jor 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
2-QUART SIZE,
65/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen stfeet, ‘^Brisbane;
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
'
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
ATonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynam Ite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatin?
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931
General Manager , ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
£23,710,000
T. £90,111,427
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St, E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“A.8.C.”: “Ornis’s” par. (B. 14/9/’32)
about women hatching eggs in their bosoms
is a bit hard to swallow. A hen can’t do
the trick unless she is in a condition of
broodiness, which involves a temperature of
about 103 deg. If the ladies in question had
that temperature they should have been in
hospital, not careering round with eggs.
“Laloki”: One of the oldest yachts in the
world, the Sirocco, is lying at anchor near
Port Moresby in Papua. She was built by
Ford in 1881 at his shipyards on Sydney’s
Circular Quay for E. W. Knox, of O.S.R.
lame. Old-timers remember when, with her
black-bearded owner at the tiller and gener-
ally one small boy as crew, she developed
speed that was the-pride of the waterside.
She sailed for 34 years before her original
sail plan was altered. Her then owner cut
several feet from the topmast, shortened her
booms and discarded four tons of lead bal-
last. She sailed just as well as previously,
and continued a .successful racing career for
11 years. When nearly 50 years old she was
bought by a New Guinea planter, who sailed
her to Papua, taking five months for the
journey from Sydney. Her subsequent his-
tory included a collision with a coral reef,
but she was repaired and is now destined to
be a diving-tender in the beche-de-mer
industry.
❖ i'fi ❖ tjc
“Ilerpcton”: Interesting to me has been
a discussion about cobras in Sydney
“Herald,” following on a dictum by one of
that infallible journal’s reviewers that
cobras are found only in Asia. This
section of the great colubrine division of
the snakes is far more widely distributed in
Africa than in India. All the species have
the trick of widening out the skin on the
side of the _ neck which caused the first
Portuguese discoverers in India to give them
the distinctive name of capello —hooded.
The much-advertised cobra of India is
A SIN TO WASTE IT.
ESTATE-AGENT: “But why do you want to shift to the empty place next door—being
a terrace, they’re both the same?”
McHAGGIS: “Aye, but the cooncil has juist pit a street light outside the ither place, an’
we’ll no’ hae to licht oorsels to bed.”
famous for the “spectacle mark” on the back
of the hood, which shows much more clearly
than in the case of the several African
species I have encountered. One of the
most formidable of these was a snake of a
type which most of the Light Horse regi-
ments patrolling the western boundary of
Egypt after Gallipoli encountered. Bigger
than any Indian cobra. writer can recall,
the brute was apt to be aggressive, which
its Indian cousin certainly is not, if left
alone. If anyone doubts as to the African
origin of the hooded snake let him look at
any reproduction of ancient Egyptian paint-
ings. The sacred urwus crowning the brows
of Pharaohs and divinities is the cobra.
“Homfrey Beale”: A superstition con-
nected with the movements of fish in relation
to the fortunes of impending com-
bat is almost universal among
those. Papuan tribes whose chief
ingress to enemy country is by
water. If, when on a foray, a
fish springs from the water across
the boats towards the left when
on a river, or towards the land
when at sea, it indicates that the
enemy has knowledge of the ex-
pedition and will attempt an
ambush. Opposite directions of
piscatorial movement mean “all
clear.” If a fish lands just m
front of the leading boat things
will be pretty serious ; if a num-
ber do so, defeat of the invaders
is certain, and the expedition is
usually postponed. Fish landing
in the boats are a sign that pris-
oners (generally young females)
will be brought back, presuppos-
ing, of course, victory for the
attackers. Fish landing behind
the last boat mean that there will
be victory, but with no captives
and little spoil.
❖ $
“Wondeda” : Amongst the Eve-
lyn Tableland (N.Q.) blacks it
is the custom when the mother of
a baby has died to hand the in-
fant over to the nearest female
relative to suckle, or, failing a
relation, to some other gin in the
camp. The new mother, whether
she has an infant at the time, or
has never had one, will have a
supply of breast milk for the
child in a few days. “Me plenty
sorry longa my sister,” explained
Hetty, applying at the house for
a little cow’s milk for a few days;
“two or three days me have
plenty milk.” And so she liad, although
childless herself.
* * *
“G.E.C.”: The spacious days of the
Queensland pioneers are becoming but memo-
ries. Old Talgai homestead, once the centre
of almost the largest station on the Darling
Downs, with hardly a fence or a boundary,
was sold the other day with a mere 478
acres attached. When Talgai was founded
in 1840 by E. E. Dalrymple, its area was
huge, almost indefinite. The young Scot—
he was little more than 20 years—followed
the tree-blazed trail of his friends, the Leslie
brothers, over Cunningham’s Gap. and came
eventually to the Condaminc River. There
he built him a house, and called it Talgai.
Around the homestead stretched mile on mile
of fertile, rolling country, and of this Dal-
THE OLYMPIANS.
FRIENDS: “Poor old Bill—a great, pity he can’t keep off the booze.”
rymple took an area as large as a Home
county, and stocked it with his father’s gift
—stud cattle and horses from Scotland. He
lived only five years, and his name never
became as well known as that of the Leslies
and their station, Canning Downs, but his
homestead remained, to figure largely in the
history of the Downs. The estate has passed
through many hands since then, and its once
vast acreage has dwindled, much of its
original area being now divided into small
farms, but Talgai has always meant a lot
to the people of the Downs.
“.Tan Joinersson”: A great fuss has been
made in Victoria about the destruction of
forests by bush’fires, usually laid at the
door of wicked runholders like myself. The
teal cause of destructive fires is the policy
of the Forestry Department in trying to
prevent them. When a fire has been kept
out" of a Gippsland forest for a few years
there is such an accumulation of leaves,
branches, bark and fern-fronds that, when
a fire does come, as it certainly will in
spite of all human precautions, the result
is disastrous. If the Forestry Department,
instead of cutting and clearing firebreaks
at great expense, and to no purpose, were
to burn every patch of forest that would
burn, early in the season, there Avould be
no disastrous fires. The death's from bush-
fires that have occurred in Victoria of late
years are the, direct outcome of the laws
against, burning off.
“Nakhoda”: Even the most monstrous
achievements in the matter of chrysanthe-
mums by suburban horticulturists are beaten
by Nature in the case of the RafflCsia. The
strangest flower in Borneo appears to grow
■straight from the ground, but actually the
bud, about the sizd of a marble, is parasitic
on a vine-root, When the bud breaks the
flower grows at a terrific rate, in a few days
producing side petals like immense mous-
taches, 30 inches long. The plant or animal
lives on a diet of carrion-feeding flies and
beetles and it is no doubt this necrophilic
menu that gives it the colors of a decompos-
ing corpse—pallid green, sad brown, livid
purple and dull red, in hectic patches. Full-
grown it may weigh- as much as fifteen
pounds. It decays into a fetid mess in which
the seeds lie, waiting for the foot of an ele-
phant or rhinoceros to convey them to
another tree-root.
“E.F.A.”: “Frigid” (B. 31/8/’32) is; all
wrong about tlio headache vine of Fraser
Island. It doesn’t cause headache, but cures
it instantly when crushed to a'pulp in ‘ the
palm of the hand and sniffed. The odor
is similar to that of sal volatile, but not
so strong. • ■ ■ ■ . ■ ■
“Macti” : It is generally thought that the
potato and other European vegetables will
not grow in the tropic parts of Australia.
On Moa Island in Torres Strait, however,
the visitor will find the familiar spud
amongst the garden beds, and they both
grow and taste well. Cabbages are also
grown with good success, as well as carrots,
several varieties of beans, and any quantity
of fine tomatoes, in addition to the usual
tropical fruits and vegetables. The garden
beds are separated by deep trenches, dug
waist-high, and the chief implement employed
is the hoe, there being only manual labor
on the island. Unfortunately an invasion
of bandicoots (introduced lately by a person
ignorant of the destructive properties of the
pest) is undoing a lot of the good work the
natives have done.
“G.G.6” : I note someone has been grumbl-
ing in the press because an emu at Parra-
matta Park (N.S.W.) grabbed and swallowed
a gold brooch from her baby’s dress when
she was holding the child up to see, the
bird. As one who has seen much of emus,
1 can assure the lady she was jolly lucky
the fowl didn’t get the child as well as the
brooch. A Western Queensland family of
my acouaintance once brought up an emu
from the egg—in fact it was only when they
were going to make an omelet' that: they
discovered it was an emu. It grew and
flourished as a pet. One season when the
station fowlyard was exceptionally pro-
lific, there was a mysterious epidemic among
the newly-hatched chickens. Worse than
that, they disappeared entirely. One after-
noon the writer heard a hen in wordy argu-
ment with some opponent. Thinking it
was a hawk, he seized the gun always kept
handy and ran out. As he did he could
see the last of a batch of voun<r chicks
going down the throat of the emu, who
died suddenly on the spot. The old game
hen who was mothering the chicks was
valiantly attempting to stoush the emu when
I came out. though he could have made a
hundred. of her.
THE BUSH VALEDICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Good-bye” seems going out somehow,
And rarer still, “Adieu.”
It’s “Cheerio” more often now,
Or, possibly, “Hooroo.”
From few we hear the old “Farewell,”
Through centuries that stood,
But oft there comes a parting yell:
“Good Luck,” or else “Be Good.”
None hits the trail with “Au Revoir,”
As in a lover’s song,
But lightly says. “See you some more,”
Or, briefer still, “So Long.”
But my old mate of western ways,
Ere other tracks he takes,
Just nods his head and turning says:
“Aw, well, Keep off the Snakes!”
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station'),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
S 3
SS
ffllft tf
S 3
S 3
33
31. ii
m
tfp H.iy
I
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Head Office.
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
SfgSpjte
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
ro
»«!>£
£
a
•fl
sft
®J>
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to .the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
Bradman is insisting on his writes.
It’s easy to see the Australian girl’s back
on the beach.
# ¥
“For weeks they had lived on sea birds; but
now they were able to trap no more.”
The old trouble —out of petrel.
* *
“Mr. Bosanquet is aged 55, and was Bosanquet,
the well-known cricketer who played for Middlesex
and invented ‘googly’ bowling, has given birth to a
son at their home at Pyrford Common, Surrey.”
—“Overseas Daily Mail.”
As full of surprises as ever.
# *
THE TREE THEY DIDN’T SPARE.
“The Wishing Tree in the Sydney Botanic Gardens,
officials say, is dying.” —“Sunday Sun.”
And that reminds us of the sudden death
of another old friend, the jamboree-tree.
Experts said its end was due to coming into
contact with too many saps. On the other
hand, Otto, an overseas authority, traced the
trouble to the tap-root. It struck some hard
substance in which there was no give. He
advised nipping it in the bud, grafting and
pruning. Many Australians told him he was
a damn fool. * Anyhow, as we said before,
our dear old jamboree-tree is now very, very
dead and no longer can its luscious Doub-
loon plums be had for the picking. Perhaps
the trouble was in the tap-root.
Me.
* *
Australia will shortly be coming to its
Census.
* #
Some of our secondary industries think
they can see the writing on the tariff-wall.
* *
A GREAT GATHERING.
When the depression is over I suggest a
thanksgiving dinner with the following cele-
brities as guests of honor: —
The first man on the dole.
The last man on the dole.
The only man who was never on the dole.
The inventor of the dole (in the chair).
And the cow who cut it out (if he’s game
to come).
W. P. T.
BRITAIN’S FIRST COLLEGIATE.
“A film will shortly be released, depicting under-
graduate life at Oxford.” — Cable.
Title: “Stand By the Old College.”
Scenario : Series of short, atmosphere-
creating Oxford shots showing students
fighting bargees; plug-hatted English aristo-
VANQUISHED PUG: “Anyway, you’re a gentleman —it was
a bloomin’ pleasure ter fight yer!”
crats rooting at Oxford-Cambridgc ball game:
and officers of Grenadier Guards singing
“God Save the King” while marching along
High-street.
Dissolves to
Campus at Oxford College. Lord Simpson,
Viscountess Plantagenet, Duchess Beauvoir
and other co-eds on way to class with exer-
cise-books, etc. But they are dressed as for
a hunt, and Lord Simpson marches in front
holding banner inscribed “Rah, Rah. The
Quorn !”
Viscountess: “Say, guys, less give the
Prof, a miss and go for a hunt.”
Lord S.: “Attaboy! You said it, goilie.”
Co-eds : “Rah ! Rah ! Rah!”
As they mount horses, led in by servitors
clad in College livery, the air is filled, and
the campus littered, with their exercise-books
which they joyously fling away.
Dissolves to
Meet of England’s world-famous Quorn
Hunting-dogs in London’s historic Hyde
Park.
Close shot of Lord Simpson jumping rail-
ings into Park Lane in front of dogs, with
onlookers applauding.
Middle shot of Duchess jumping Thames,
witli watermen applauding.
Close shot of
monocled M.F.H.
(elderly comic)
falling off at gates
of Bucking-
ham Palace, King
and Queen watch-
ing amusedly from
Throne Room win-
dow. Lord Chan-
cellor, Knights of
Garter and other
courtiers in Re-
galia present, with
Throne in back-
ground.
Middle shot of
fox refuging in
Privy Council.
Sympathetic atti-
tude of bewigged
Councillors suggest-
ed by R.S.P.C.A.
posters on walls of
Council Chamber.
Dissolves to
Class - room at
Oxford College.
Prof.: “Where’s Lord Simpson?”
Sir Jasper Suudge, Bart, (jealous of
Duchess’s love for Lord S.) : “He went
horsebacking, Prof., an’ won’t be back before
supper.”
Lord S. (striding into classroom) : “You
lie, you dirty tramp!” (Fells Sludge.)
Barking of dogs, clattering of hoofs, and
singing of “A-hunting We Will Go” show
hunt is passing College.
Prof. : “Congratulations, Lord Simpson,
on thus vindicating your character. The
old School is proud of you.”
Dissolves to
Note-printers’ den in vaults of Bodleian
Library. Close shot of Sludge examining
spurious £5 note.
Middle shot of typical London criminals
at work on printing-press.
Observation pans to Librarian lying bound
and gagged in corner; to Headmaster bound
and gagged in another corner, resting shortly
on each.
Dissolves to
Gay party of co-eds in cocktail bar of
Viscountess plantagenet’s College apartment.
Observation pans to
Lord S., who has arm
round Duchess’s neck;
to family butler, on
whose bowed head
Viscountess is archly
placing mortar-board.
Close shot of Lord S.
speaking.
Lord S.: “There’s
rough stuff on at the
Bodleian to-night,
guys. We didn’t
oughter stand for the
old College being dis-
graced. Who’s got
the noive to follow me
an’ give Jasp. Sludge
an’ his pikers the
woiks?”
Cries of “Oh, boy!”
and “You said it!”
Observation pans to
Duchess, who has
struck up College
song (“Oxford, Ox-
ford, You’re a
Wow!*’). All sing
with arms interlocked,
and then rush off, the
male sophomores picking up crowbars, axes,
etc., era route.
(N.B. —The film can be concluded accord-
ing to Director’s taste, but perhaps the most
original and artistic fade, and the one like-
liest to appeal to fans, would show Lord
Simpson—with' lock of hair drawn down
over right eyd and collar undone to show
he has been in desperate fight—kissing
Duchess passionately amid ruins of printing-
press. right hand holding College flag aloft,
left foot on unconscious form of Sludge.)
10-2-4.
* *
“Many hotelkeepers fail to wash glasses
thoroughly.” —Medical evidence.
“Sedimental Blokes,” our bar-parlor
“Dens” call them.
“A scent-permeating apparatus was in the days
of my boyhood (about 1066 a.d.) installed for the
pleasure of visitors to the second-hand book and
musical department of Cole's Book Arcade, Mel-
bourne.” — “Sun.”
This Norman veteran makes the bores who
brag about their Victorian memories seem
mere juveniles.
* * \
Few of us care whether we go back to
the gold standard or the silver standard so
long as there is more brass about.
* ¥
SHREWD HEADS.
The latest additions to the list include:
The bank manager who, before disappear-
ing with the bank’s funds, called in all
overdrafts.
The punter who decided never again to
“I’LL GUARANTEE YOU’LL NEVER MAKE A PAIR OF
LADY’S SHOES.”
attend a race-meeting more than one day’s
walk from home.
And, shrewdest of all, the suicide who,
before going over the Bridge, sold advance
information to press-photographers and
thereby financed a last glorious booze.
S. V. D.
# *
A Moses is usually in the bull-rushes at
our Stock Exchange.
THE CHANGE.
“A man ought to sue yous blokes for
false pretences!” hissed the newcomer.
“Where’s the golden stairs, harps and streets
you bin boosting this place on ever since
I was a kid?”
“We’ve gone off the gold standard,” ex-
plained Peter. “Michael, give this tin-hare
punter from Sydney one of our new good-as-
gold aluminium harps.”
McM.
* *
“Politicians used to shout for freetrade and
the big loaf.” —Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
They’re still enthusiastic about the big
loaf.
SAUCE FOR THE GOAT, SAUCE FOR
THE GANDHI.
(By Our Foreign Editor.)
Few, outside the inner circles of the great
European Chancelleries, know how Mr.
Gandhi got his idea of starving himself. A
four-footed friend was responsible—in brief,
the goat from which he derives part of his
daily sustenance. Annoyed by the absence
of petrol-tins from its menu, the animal
ostentatiously refused food. Tempting stones,
bottles, nails, etc., were rejected. A Moslem
enemy communicated with the R.S.P.C.A.
and a prosecution was launched against the
Mahatma. The Orange Dodges of India joined
in. So did the local British Empire and Loyalty
Leagues, on the ground that Mr. Gandhi’s
conduct was unmanly, not cricket and un-
English. Mrs. Gandhi was so upset by the
sneers of neighbors that she flung her hus-
band’s morning, midday and evening meal
of rice in his face in one poultice, and left
the gunyah. In desperation he rushed to a
garage, collected a generous ration of petrol-
tins and sought the goat’s pen, only to find
that it had all along been secretly eating
kerosene-tins, which are equally nourishing
and luscious. Ever since, when he wants
to get anything out of the British Empire,
he exchanges his normal diet of rice and
water for equally delicious and fattening
banquets of soda and water, and soon has
Downing-street on , its knees.
Moral. —Be Kind to Animals.
D. J.
¥ *
It’s hard to fault the contention of the
wowsers that Sunday hiking is bad for the
sole.
* *
A TALKIE CRITIC REVIEWS THE
QUARTER SESSIONS.
A Comedian of Genius.
“Smoodger” Bunkum (indisputably the
Chaplin of this jurisdiction) had the Court
in convulsions (instantly suppressed) with
his amusing defence on a charge of arson.
He said the petrol must have been put there
by the police (smiles) ; that the cotton-waste
was the property of an enemy now in another
State (laughter) : and that the person whom
the police identified as himself leaving the
conflagration was the enemy aforesaid. He
liad burned his eyebrows off with a cigarette
(loud laughter, in which several jurors
joined). Would that our docks could see
more artists of the calibre of Mr. Bunkum !
Five years.
Love—Little Ones — Tears.
Seldom have crime-fans hearkened to a
more poignant life-story than that of reci-
divist Horace Wobble, by universal consent
the sunny Mother State’s bigamy star. One
of his wives, a charming and beautiful girl
whose two pretty tots accompanied her into
the witness-box, testified that lie had mar-
ried her in 1924, and spent her savings on
his next honeymoon. Dame Sybil herself
never registered rage in a more life-like
manner. The star’s four other wives—some
of whom were beautiful, some not—gave
similar testimony and were similarly con-
vincing on the emotional side. An outstand-
ingly. level performance, admirably produced,
and moving to a degree. Ten years.
Starlc Drama.
The piece de resistance of the afternoon
session was unquestionably the first appear-
ance in such a role (incidentally, it will be
the last) of Bill (“Basher”) Sikes. A
powerful plot, with a grim underworld set-
ting, was unfolded by the talented mime who
played the Crown Prosecutor, its salient
features being that the star had murdered
his aged employer. Mr. Blither, who was
brilliant as Defending Counsel, sought to
make a mystery play of it, but the Judge
(a most gifted character-actor) insisted on
the continuity being maintained. “Where’s
the mystery?” he asked, and had the hatchet
placed among the exhibits. Mr. Sikes, in
the leading role of accused, was the cynosure
of every eye, and right well he acquitted
himself in a trying part. Unfortunately,
though he acquitted himself, the jury didn’t.
His great moment, and the fade-out, came
when the Judge assumed the black cap and
sentenced him to be hanged in three weeks’
time. A Barrymore could hardly have made
•the situation more realistic.
D.
* *
‘‘A witness told the Royal Commission that trouser
buttons were often used in fruit machines instead of
discs.”— “Argus.”
Rightly are parsons complaining of
plagiarism.
* *
A SUETABLE END.
“Butcher Commits Suicide.” —Newspaper heading.
H’e felt in his bones that his happiness
was at steak. He yearned to trotter away
to a church and liver life of married bliss.
But he was not much chop; and she gave
him the cold shoulder. She regarded his
conversation as tripe, and he could not steel
her heart. She desired a lover of another
kidney; one ■whom she could meat on her
own plane; a man of 1 brains. She would be
no calf’s mutton. “You certainly have
a neck,” she sneered, and,’ giving him a push
on the brisket, beefed off. So he did his
block and a knife in his ribs put out his
lights. jj.
“I’m sorry I spilled, water on you, sir.”
“That’s all right. The suit was too large,
anyway!”
“To settle the dispute all the men were employed
for another week.”
Peace-work, as it is sometimes called.
* *
“A recent board meeting of Sargents, Ltd., were
told that the company is now paying £400 per
week in taxation.”
This seems to prove the contention that
the taxation authorities, are gradually get-
ting their finger in every pie.


a
§
\jimr mau produce.
another *Pkar Lap
CUT THERE IS ONLY ONE DEWAR’S
Many great thoroughbreds
have graced the turf, but there
has been only one Phar Lap.
Many fine whiskies have come
from Scotland, but there has
been only one Dewar’s.
Whilst time may evolve one
even greater than the “wonder
horse,” it is a practical impos-
sibility for the art
of the distiHer to
excel the ultimate
in accomplish-
merit that Dewar’s represents.
Dewar’s has long held the
proudest position in the realm
of Scotch Whiskies, namely—
the standard by which all others
are judged.
Between races, or at luncheon,
at the next meeting you attend,
order Dewar’s with cold soda
foryour friendsand
yourself. They’ll
appreciate your
hospitality and
good judgment.
" /
'v4 =s >' ,:
H
' j?\
m.
i
*
M
■? « < a- "7A Sr~ n /-, M I7>'
■^T mjm>yj m A<l y
\7\ 4
fs\
?*V;
-r
VViTH J 1
X&/*i isi>
n
Ml A
3F-
h\
3,«w«"
9
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
Dewar’s is obtainable in four
handy sizes to suit every
purse, purpose and occasion.
BOTTLED ONLY IN BOND UNDER GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION


£
1&-
r
HE
\
m
m
VN;
5M
•*%m.
s^'
m
=^3
*«==S.
Sg
JP
5
in
W 2
DRINK MORE BEER
Ms good for you /
<585
4
//
The health value of pure malt is unquestioned. It strengthens the body
and builds up brawn and muscle. It is exceptionally rich and gives the
necessary warmth to the blood. It is the greatest known food for the
development of robust health.
Beer . . . good, pure beer . . . is malt liquor in its most palatable and cheapest form.
It has all the valuable properties of the original malt, in a drink which refreshes while it
nourishes, satisfies while it sustains.
Beer is good for you ! To get the utmost benefit and the fullest enjoyment from it, you
should drink it regularly. Drink beer as you take your food ... at fixed intervals.
Whether you fancy sparkling lager, light dinner ale or pilsener, full-bodied old-fashioned
ale, draught bitter beer, or good rich stout . . . whatever your taste may be, buy
local beer on which you can absolutely rely . . . brewed under ideal conditions in your
own State ... and drink it regularly. YOUR HEALTH MUST BENEFIT as a result.
Brewed under perfect hygienic conditions in your own State
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS RESCH’S
■
81-X


THINKING AHEAD
The right kind of thinking ahead, of planning for the future,
is that which is instantly translated into action, when the
thinker, the planner, has decided upon the objective and the
means by which it may be obtained.
Every man or woman who so plans must take money into
consideration, and every man or woman who thinks must
realise how valuable a means the Savings Bank account can be.
It costs nothing, cannot be overworked, and pays an interest
profit commensurate with your tenacity of purpose.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savinas Bank of Australia
(E. C. RIDDLE, Governor.)
sd
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
Qg PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. i ell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
gfc. Agency Co., Ltd. .
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
HEAVIER SUPER. DRESSINGS.
“Yeoman”: Apropos of the movement in
South Aus. for a reduction in the price of
super, to farmers —a Federal subsidy is pro-
posed—the experts are all for heavier dress-
ings. Said Prof. Perkins, Director of S.A*.
Agricultural Department, addressing a
farmers’ conference :—•
With the assistance of heavier phosphatic dressings
to harvested crops, pasture, etc., it should eventually
be possible for a Mallee farm to carry a sheep to
the acre on the land available for grazing without
any reduction in the area normally allotted to wheat.
It is here that the residual value of
heavier dressings of super, for wheat would
come in. The subsequent stronger growth of
herbage—apart from the immediate return of
an increased wheat yield—-would reflect the
result of the heavier application of super.
Prof. A. E. V. Richardson is even more
outspoken:—
There is abundance of evidence to show that
heavier dressings of phosphates than are customary
could be used to advantage, and that the wheat
crop and the grazing value of grass would be
materially improved by such liberal dressings....
As the application of soluble phosphates encourages
deep-root development, they are beneficial wherever
drought conditions are likely to prevail.
Not only is super, essential for the promo-
tion of maximum production because our
soils are deficient in phosphoric acid ; but it
plays an equally important rble as an insur-
ance against drought.
The old prejudice that the heavy dress-
ings of super, would burn off the crop dur-
ing a long dry spell is entirely without foun-
dation. The heavy dressings have the oppo-
site effect, for they promote -a vigorous, deep-
rooting system which searches well down into
the subsoil for moisture that cannot be
reached by the roots of wheat plants ; which
have received only a light dressing, of super.
In no way could the wheat industry be
more effectually helped than by subsidising
super, to enable the price to be reduced suffi-
ciently to encourage heavier dressings.
SEED-PRODUCTION OPPORTUNITIES.
“Mullalylup”: “Mulyan” (B. 21/9/’32)
considers it strange that N.S.W. farmers, and
graziers don’t grow native grasses for seed.
It is stranger that they should be content, to
depend on other States and Maoriland for
seed of grasses and clovers of proved worth
when there is a great and increasing local
market, to say nothing of export possibilities.
In a paper read at the Hawkesbury Con-
ference, and now going through the “Agri-
cultural Gazette,” Assistant Agrostologist
Moodie points out that in most other coun-
tries the production of seeds of grasses and
clovers is an established and very profitable
industry. In N. S. Wales it is neglected.
There is a steady N.S.W. demand for true
perennial rye grass seed, and it would grow
well on the better-quality soils in portions
of the southern, northern and central table-
lands, the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas
and the central and south coast Sown in
the autumn at 16ib. to 20ib. per acre, it
should yield an average of 20 to 25 bushels
to the acre, and in good seasons up to 70
bushels might be got. And the farmer’s
return varies from 7s. 6d. to £1 a bushel.
Harm has been done by sowing so-called
perennial rye grass which is really annual
or biennial. On the south coast there are
true perennial rye grass pastures which were
laid down 80 years ago ; but as supplies from
this source are limited Mr. Moodie recom-
mends farmers inclined to go in for seed-
production to get Maoriland Government cer-
tified seed, “the most desirable type on the
market at present.”
Italian rye grass, annual or biennial, is
also in good demand. The tablelands and
the irrigation areas are suitable districts,
and autumn sowings at the rate of 161 b. to
the acre might give 40 to 60 bushels, at a
price to the grower of 7s, 6d. to 10s. a
bushel. And wheat-farmers, particularly on
the tablelands and the Riverina, could add
to their incomes by growing Wimmera rye
grass seed, for the grass thrives during the
winter and spring. It is annual in habit,
but once it is established a seed crop can
be taken off each year without re-sowing and
may be expected to go 20 to 60 bushels per
acre. The retail price is generally in the
vicinity of 10s. per bushel; sowings are made
in the autumn at the rate of 41b. to 61b. per
acre.
In establishing areas of cocksfoot for seed
production, Mr. Moodie considers it wise to
sow Akaroa in preference to New Zealand
Commercial or Danish seed. In tableland or
irrigation area districts, 1501 b. to 4001 b. of
seed per acre could be obtained ; retail prices,
front Is. to Is. sd. per pound. And the
demand for Phalaris tuberosa seed is such
that the retail price is 4s. a pound. It can
be grown in coastal and tableland districts
on the better-quality soils, sown in the
autumn at the rate of 41b. per acre. Yields
vary from 401 b. to 1121 b. per acre, “although
with improved methods of pasture treatment
they could be considerably increased.”
As for the clovers, “there is always a
brisk demand for white clover seed,” and
portions of the coastal and tableland districts
are suitable. Sow in the autumn at the
rate of 41b. per acre, using Maoriland Gov-
ernment certified seed. Yields of 3001 b. to
4001 b. per acre are harvested; retail price,
Is. 6d. to 35.. per pound. Suitable sub.-
clover parts are the tablelands, southern slopes
and eastern Riverina. From 41b. seed per
acre, sown in the autumn, yields of 6001 b.
seed per acre can be expected, and the retail
price varies from Is. sd. to Is. Sd. per pound.
But “owing to the large quantities of seed
produced in South Aus. N.S.W. farmers are
advised not to sow areas of this crop purely
for seed production at the present time.” Still
there is no reason why perennial red clover,
which produces good seed in N.S.W. coastal
and tableland districts, should not be handled
commercially; there is an assured market.
From autumn sowings at the rate of 61b. to
81b. seed per acre, yields of 1801 b. to 4001 b.
seed per acre are obtained, the retail price
being from Is. sd. to Is. Sd. per pound.
WOOLCLASSING v. SORTING.
“Murrawong”: “Sheep-oh’s” contention
that woolclassing should be superseded by
sorting to quality in the shearing-shed (B.
7/9/’32) is not to be lightly dismissed, but
the brokers and the majority of graziers
would object. The practice, if carried into
effect, would land the bulk of any but the
very large clips into the star lots, and the
additional expense—not in wages, but in
altering practically every shed in the Coun-
try—would be a great burden at present.
As a matter of fact, most modern classers
work to quality, although few go to the
extent of dividing an uneven fleece. But
the number of bins necessary to sort the
average clip would mean quadrupling the
size of the woolroom and the present num-
ber of bins. Allowance would have to be
made for three bins to each spinning quality
(long, conditioned and short), to say no-
thing of dingy and tender lines. On a large
station where the sheep are well classed
this would be possible, but the same result
is being attained under present conditions
by any first-rate classer. The trouble is
that a small four-stand shed would require
as many bins as one with 30 shearers —pro-
bably more. The smaller the flock the
greater the range of quality, as a rule.
This season I handled a mob of 1000-odd
ewes whose wool ranged from a good 70’s
down through every quality to 56’s. Several
fleeces were distinctly kempy. To handle
that flock, as suggested by “Sheep-oh,”
would have required over a dozen bins for
the fleece alone, and what sort of a recep-
tion would the classer have go't from the
owner and the broker when they received
an assortment of single-bale and bar-bale
lines? As regards the get-up of skirtings
in a shed, “Sheep-oh’s” theory has my
strong support. Wool prices are not con-
ducive to extra expense, but if competent
wool-sorters were engaged to handle skirt-
ings, the result would be much more satis-
factory than at present. The average rouse-
about piece-picker is imbued with the sole
idea of keeping the stack of skirtings from
accumulating, and in these times, when the
number of shed-hands is cut to the mini-
mum, it’s hard enough to make him adhere
to a suitable distinction between broken and
pieces without the additional work of keep-
ing the strong wool out.
THE STATION PADDOCK MAP.
“Liss”: Most station offices have a pad-
dock map, taken from the local parish maps:
the scale is usually 40 chains to lin. It
hangs on a wall, and on it are marked areas
of paddocks and the location of tanks and
other watering-places, gates, roads, yards
and so on. A good map is of great help
in the management of a run, no matter how
well a man may know his country. It can
be made to take the place of the paddock
book also', and is handier than that volume,
as it shows everything in connection with
stock counts at a glance.
All that is required is a sheet of white
celluloid. This is cut into small rectangles,
say, fin. x 1-Jin., or slightly smaller in the
case of small paddocks, a piece being tacked
on to the map in each paddock. The map
should be mounted oil smooth board; a piece
of three-ply is best. Stock counts may be
entered on these slips and rubbed out as
stock are moved from paddock to paddock.
The system may be elaborated as required.
As sheep are returned to their paddocks ofi
shears, the numbers could be noted in red,
and a glance at the map would then indi-
cate how the muster was progressing. The
same could be applied to dipping, crunching
and so forth, or to any mob that needs to
be kept under notice (such as sheep sold
but not delivered), different colors being
used.
THREE MILKINGS A DAY.
“Jethro Tull”: Tell “Mulyan” (B.
14/9/’32) that during the 1923-24 season a
number of high-producing cows in the
Hawkesbury A. G. herd were milked three
times daily—at 4 a.m., 12 noon and 3 p.m.
Average-test and butter-fat records were
kept for the season in question and for pre-
ceding and subsequent years. In every in-
stance in 1923-24 there was an increase in
yield, and only in one case was that increase
slight. At the same time records were taken
of other cows in the herd receiving similar
rations but only two milkings daily. Com-
parison of the two tables shows that increase
in production from the cows receiving three
milkings was greater, in the majority of
cases, than was obtained from the c-ows re-
ceiving only two, though these also showed
a steady increase each year. There was an
abrupt rise for the year of three milkings;
where figures are available for the following
season of only two milkings, there was a
fall almost as abrupt as the rise, but the
steady increase over previous years is obvious.
Whether this increase in production was
economical is a matter of conjecture. In
the case of high-yielding cows three milk-
ings would perhaps be a payable proposi-
tion, especially when the general improve-
ment of the animals is considered. J. A.
Robertson, then college herdmaster, stated
that the three milkings probably led to the
higher production, and certainly improved
the well-being of the cows. No deleterious
effect was occasioned, one of the cows under
test being 16 years of age and still produc-
ing in 1926.
SUNFLOWERS FOR SILAGE.
In a very informative pamphlet on “The
Manufacture and. Utilisation of Silage,” W.
J. Spafford, Deputy Director of Agriculture
in South Aus., draws attention to the fact,
that sunflowers make good silage. Not so
good as maize, no doubt; but maize is an
uncertain crop in Mr. Spafford’s State,
whereas sunflowers can be grown almost
anywhere in the farming districts and give
a higher yield per acre. Cows relish sun-
flower silage and “keep up their milk flow
on this forage almost as well as on maize
silage.”
Says the Deputy Director: “It is possible
to grow good crops of sunflowers on much
less rain than is necessary for maize or any
of the sorghums, and the crop also does
better where the weather is too cold or the
season too short for these warmth-loVjng
crops. Sunflower seed, at the rate of 351 b.
per acre, is, during September-October,
drilled into rows about 24in. to 30in. apart,
and about 2cwt. super, per acre is drilled in
at the same time. While the plants are
small enough the land between the rows is
kept cultivated by the use of a horse-hoe.”
The yield to be expected, if normal farming
practices are followed, is 12 to 25 tons to
the acre.
Incidentally, Mr. Spafford has this to say
for the trench silo, the vogue of which is
increasing so rapidly in northern N. S.
Wales: “As an insurance against drought,
there are few better and more economical
ways of storing fodder in times of plenty,
and the silage made in trench silos keeps in
really good condition for many years. At
the Agricultural Society’s Royal Show held
in Adelaide in 1914, a very nice sample of
silage was exhibited which had been stored
in ah ordinary earth trench for over 20 years
at Strathalbyn.”
CHANGING THE DIET.
“Jack Point”: When the late rain arrived
in Queensland, hundreds of dairy-farmers who
had been buying fodder rushed about can-
celling orders, thinking their cattle could
carry on with the promise of a feed of young
grass in two or three weeks. They’ll pro-
bably wonder why their herds don’t reach
high' production figures on a regimen of dry
feed, no feed, green feed.
One of the first principles of stock-feeding
is that any changes of diet must be gradual.
Cattle will do a sight better on silage, hay.
etc., with molasses, supplemented by a good
grain mixture, than they will on green feed
alone, no matter how young and succulent
the grass. Cut out the hand-feeding, parti-
cularly the concentrates, altogether, and you
are inviting trouble. Keep on with all the
hand-feeding, reducing the amount very
gradually as the young grass becomes avail-
able, but do not , unless you follow a strict
system of rotational grazing, cut the con-
cent rates right out. If you have cows which
can’t raox*e than repay in extra production an
allowance all the year round of a good con-
centrate mixture, preferably linseed’ or
cotton-seed meal with bran, rice or cornmeal.
get rid of them.
BETTER YIELDS OF LUCERNE.
Top-dressing with super, to increase
lucerne yields, particularly in irrigation dis-
tricts, is warmly advocated by E. T. Berald-
sen, one of the Vie. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s field officers. Writing in the Septem-
ber “Journal,” he points out that Victorian
soils arc deficient in phosphorus, and when
this important element is removed from the
soil it must be made up—as it is by regu-
lar top-dressing.
Striking results of departmental tests are
given by Mr. Beruldsen. At Swan Hill appli-
cation of Gcwt. of super, per acre trebled the
yield of lucerne as compared with an inl-
manured stretch. In one year a yield ex-
ceeding 9 tons of hay was obtained; the
. average yield on this plot over five years was
SJ tons of hay per acre.
At Tongala, up to 4cwt. of super, per acre
gave a yield twice that of unmanured plots.
Yields in this case reached 6-J tons of hay
per acre on a 15 p.c. moisture basis. At
Cohuna also the benefit derived from annual
dressings of super, up to 4cwt. per acre
was marked. And the good is not confined
to increased yields. The quality of the
fodder is improved, and so is the health of
stock, while weed growth is kept in check-
very often suppressed. Above all, regular use
of super, increases the longevity of the
stand.
According to Mr. Beruldsen there is noth-
ing, to be gained by scarifying; it may even
decrease the yield by causing injury to
plants. Apply more super, instead. Early
spring is the best time, but super, can be
applied at any time with advantage.
FURNISHING THE BUSH HOME.
“Mulgo”: It is wonderful what can be
done with a few tools and a bit of timber.
I knew a couple who arrived on their selec-
tion with only a cedar box, a chest of tools
and a few packing-cases. They had bed-
ticks with nothing in them, and the first
thing was to fill these with dry grass (after
a small crop of maize was harvested,
shredded husks replaced the grass). Bed-
steads were constructed of pine wood and
fencing-wire, the latter being run length-
wise and crosswise, interlaced and well
tightened. While the man made bedsteads,
tables, cupboards, stools and chairs (with
skin seats), the woman transformed pack-
ing-cases into a dressing-table and chest of
drawers, which looked neat enough when
draped and finished. The -wardrobe was a
three-cornered frame covered with cretonne.
Half a dozen pegs driven into small auger
holes in a narrow board served for a hat-
rack.
Apart from the cases, all the timber used
was split in the bush; but when trimmed
and planed it was unrecognisable from sawn
wood. It required a lot of labor, even in
the making of shelves. These are a con-
spicuous feature in such places; they do
duty for mantels and kitchen dressers. Most
of the work was done at night and on wet
days, for the man’s main time was occupied
in fencing, building and getting a plot under
cultivation. The cultivation provided many
necessaries that saved the food bill, and was
therefore a foremost consideration. It also
supplied feed for fowls and pigs; and with
eggs, milk and butter and perhaps fish in
the creek and honey (from captured bush
swarms), provisioning was still further and
permanently improved.
Ilis buildings were walled and floored with
split slabs, neatly trimmed and roofed with
split shingles, for the whole of which only
nails had to be purchased. At first lie was
housed under bark, stripped from the trees
felled for splitting. Afterwards the bark
served for sties, fowl-houses, cart-shed and
temporary workshop—all quickly run up
with round timber. Hollow logs made bins,
troughs, brooders and so forth. Here, too.
the kerosene-tin: —light and easy to carry—
found a wide range of utility. It served for
water-buckets, meat-pot, clothes-boiler, sauce-
pans, shower-bath and other purposes. Com-
mon wire and hoop-iron (off the cases) were
other widely-adaptable things.
This man never destroyed a tree that
might be useful to him. He split his fenc-
ing material as near as possible to .the line,
cut out the rubbish elsewhere, and felled
and cut up the dead trees that were good
for firewood. A log, besides harboring ver-
min, covered a strip of ground that would
grow a lot of grass. . He worked with the
idea of making the best of everything, wast-
ing nothing. With “self-help” as his slogan
he prospered.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Best sort of creeping saltbush to plant for
use of stock, and where can seeds be
obtained ?■ —2302.
Best of the creeping sorts is Semibicata.
The typical old man saltbush (tall growing)
(.Continued on next page.)


%
to
Glossy and extra
comfortable
With welted sole and an upper
of the best patent leather, this
Abbey evening shoe wears
amazingly well. It is light and
restful, and exceedingly supple.
It is shaped to adapt itself to
the arch of your instep .... that
increases comfort. Full and
half-sizes available in three
fittings, narrow, medium and
wide.
45/-
Dancing pumps
Low-heeled, with soles of
utmost pliancy. Upper made
entirely of patent leather. Full
and half sizes.
25/-
ORDER BY POST: State both
width and size. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Patent Leather Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy, new
cleaning outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 301
“EOTHEN
PAYING GUESTS
128 Cut Terrace
M
332 Wakefield St.
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
- GARAGE
ndutive Tariff. £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
i a
a
§
m
PENS
MADE IN ENGLAND
'Swan* Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/*
'Swan* Minors from - • - * 15/«
•Blackbird’ Pens from - 10/«
‘Swan’ Ink from - - 6d. per bottle,
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot ;
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
[(A.I.)
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price tor the original.
Whafan improvement few
Cyclone Gates make/
N. -
m
jrfKMp
n
rfjssKjf:
>i
Cyclone Gates are the finishing neat touch to a
well-kept property. Makeshift wooden or wood-
and-wire gates soon strain and sag out of true.
Have to be scraped, shoved or lifted open. They
are not stockproof.
Cyclone Gates look after themselves. And your
stock. They’re practically everlasting. Need no
maintenance. Cannot swing out of true. One solid
electrically-welded piece of steel tubing reinforced
with twisted and interwoven Cyclone wire. Ready
painted! Ready to work!
Write for special Catalogue illustrating and
explaining all about “Cyclone” Gates.
cucione
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C 9P TY L TD
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, and Adelaide.
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail* your free illustrated and % priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal
Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and comparison of costs
ADDRESS _ B.'S/10/’S--
is Nummularia. Tates and Co., 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney, who occasionally stock these
seeds, will advise you further if you describe
your district to them.
We are unable to buy bran without buy-
ing pollard for the cows. How does pollard
compare with bran, and ' in what quantity
should it be used with silage (corn) or with
lucerne chaff and l pretty poor oaten-chaff
mixed? —2197. .
Bran is an excellent feed for the dairy
cow, giving bulk to the ration and provid-
ing the crude protein and phosphorus so
vital to the formation of milk. More-
over, it is very palatable, _ and pos-
sesses laxative properties which give it
a high relative value. Though pollard
is higher in digestible crude protein than
bran, it is not as satisfactory a feed.
When wet, pollard is difficult to masticate
owing to its sticky nature. It is, therefore,
advisable to mix pollard with bran when
feeding it to dairy cows. Both these con-
centrates are low in lime, which should
always be supplied by the other feeds in the
ration, such as legume roughage, lucerne,
clover, etc. The following daily rations,
utilising the foodstuffs mentioned, are recom-
mended : No. 1,401 b. corn silage, 101 b.
lucerne chaff and 81b. bran; No. 2,201 b.
lucerne chaff, 101 b. oaten chaff and 41b.
bran; No. 3,401 b. corn silage, 101 b. lucerne
chaff, 51b. bran and 31b. pollard; No. 4,
201 b. lucerne chaff, 101 b. oaten chaff, 31b.
bran and lib. pollard.
Gan a horse suffering from fistula be cured,
and, if so, is it always worth while to try
to save such a horse? —2371.
Fistula is curable. Cost of cure depends
on the age of the animal, its general health,
and the nature and position of the fistula.
Decision as to whether treatment is worth
while is a matter for the owner, who is in
the best position to balance the value of the
animal against cost of treatment.
I am a S. Aust. farmer and am thinking
of growing caraway seed. (1) Annual con-
sumption in S.A. and the Commonwealth?
(2) Price per ton? (3) Soil necessary to
grow the article? (4) Rainfall necessary?
(5) Any other hints? —2138.
(1) S.A. imports about 27001 b. p.a.; the
Commonwealth uses about l 2 tons p.a. (2)
The seed imported is worth about £45 per
ton. (3) The crop is usually grown in soils
rich in organic matter and too fertile for
the production of cereals. (4) Probably
30 to 40 inches of average annual rainfall.
(5) Carum carui, the plant from which
caraway seed is secured, is a biennial, and
must be grown for two years before it
matures seed. It is a summer-growing crop
which is grown in rows, is. kept well
cultivated and free from weeds, and gener-
ally handled as are other garden crops.
Would Queensland nuts grow in Papua?
(2) Any permanent markets? (3) Arc they
used as an oil product? (4) What space
apart should they he planted? (5) Price
obtainable for nuts? (6) If Papua started
to grow them for sale in Australia would
the Australian Government impose a duty
on them? (7) What pests attack the nut? —
2178.
(1) We know of no reason why they
shouldn’t. (2) Yes, for a limited supply, and
there are indications that with the develop-
ment of the industry there will be an excel-
lent demand. (3) Experiments are being-
conducted. (4) About 24ft. (5) 6d. to Is*
per pound according to quality. (6) Can’t
prophesy, but it isn’t very likely. (7) A
borer in some instances has been known to
attack the trunks of the trees, and also in
odd cases the larvae of the corn moth burrow
into the immature nuts whilst the shells are
soft.
On tup occasions I have planted, in the
same soil, passion-fruit seeds from very pro-
lific vines, but on each occasion the plants,
though appui ently healthy, have not
developed flowers or fruit. Cause of and
remedy for non-bearing? —l94s.
Looks as if the blossoms from the parent
vine were inoculated with pollen from vines
of a poor-bearing type, and the resultant
seedlings reverted to the latter. Avoid cul-
tivating around the vines concerned, with a
view to seeing whether this will induce them
to bear. If this does not overcome the
difficulty, replanting is recommended.
Some of my newly-hatched Rhode Island
Red chicks have their legs sticking out at
right-angles, and are unable to walk. Cause
and cure?— 2lo3.
Such deformities may be the result of in-
breeding, or breeding from birds that have
hereditary malformations, but faulty incu-
bation is the cause in most cases. When the
temperature is allowed to exceed 103 deg. for
any length of time during the process of in-
cubation a number of such cripples will be
found. In the case of hen-hatched chicks,
if the hen is a very close sitter and does
not leave the nest daily, similar results may
be expected. There’s no cure for the affected
chicks.
Where is tobacco grown in Australia? —
2211.
Principal districts (though not in order
of importance) are: Manjimup, W.A.;
Mount Barker, S.A.; Ovens Valley, King
River and Pomonal. Vic.; Tamworth, Tumut
and Ashford, N.S.W.; and Texas, and from
Brisbane north to Marceba, in Q.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon”: If Barker is suffering from tick,
don’t pull the parasite out, as that tears
the wound and squeezes the poison into it.
Many dogs have been injured more by that
treatment than by the tick bite. Press the
skin on each side between the thumb and
finger, drawing it upwards, and cut the tick
off at the neck with a small scissors. Then
apply turps. If the tick is deeply embedded,
stick a red-hot needle through it, and in a
couple of days it will frizzle up and fall
out. Some dog doctors give a dose of castor
oil, and keep the patient off meat for a
day or two.
“Belltrees”: Swallows are becoming a
nuisance in these parts (Scone, N.S.W.),
building on the verandahs and such-like
places. Get some eodliver oil (or any fish
oil) and a paint brush, and put a very
light dressing on the places where they have
started to build. They will soon leave
in disgust, as the mud for the nests will
not stick on the oiled surface. They will
not even roost near where this oil has been
applied.
"L.E.8.”: In cleaning a gun-barrel a
better job can sometimes be made with a
rope than with the cleaning-rod. Fasten
a screw-eye to a post or wooden fence and
attach a rope as thick as the diameter of
the bore. Run rope through barrel and hold
end with one hand, working barrel back
and forth with tlie other. If the rope is
too thin to fill the bore, tie pieces of cloth
round it.
“Dai R.”: “Car C.’s” advice (B. 31/S/’32)
to cut fence posts long enough to allow
at least 4in. above the top hole, to avoid
wire-lifting should posts split at the top, is
good, but those who neglected the precau-
tion needn’t despair. An oblong of galvan-
ised iron nailed across the split will ke,ep
the wire from lifting right out —tin lids
arc a good makeshift. By boring a hole
crosswise, just above the wire hole, and
driving in an old bolt, the wire may be
kept securely in its intended position.
Lengths of rabbit-trap peg or other scrap-
iron answer the purpose.
“Beady”: Don’t thi’ow away your 71b.
syrup-tins. They make useful quartpots,
and, tlie lids being watertight, they will
carry water to the dry part of the run in
a shoulder-bag, which can be made with a
sugar-bag and strap.
“Valerin” : Another use for sump oil (B.
31/8/’32). For smothering rabbits in
burrows I find it as satisfactory as fumi-
gants, and the cost is practically nil. Tear
up a few old branbags (dry grass will do
in a pinch), saturate with the oil, place in
the main entrance and light; force smoke
through burrow with an ordinary fumigator,
taking care to protect the end of the nozzle
with some inflammable material. As the
smoke emerges from openings close them
with earth at once, a few puffs to finish off
and seal the entrance. No rabbit will live
in the fumes.
“L’Fou”: It is saddening to see men
fighting fires with heavy wet bags and
clumsy green bushes. One man with a good,
well-balanced leather beater can do as much
as two men armed with some exhaust-
ing makeshift. Have a few of these neces-
sary tools on hand before the fire season
starts. A solid, spade-shaped flap of leather
and at least six feet of tough, well-seasoned
handle is the recipe for the home-made
article. And let everyone know where they
are kept.
“Clarfen” : I’ve never been troubled with
mastitis in the dairy herd since I realised
that use of wet cloths on udders and wet-
handed milking caused it. I placed a water-
tap in the cowshed, and, from time to time,
added perm. pot. to the tank. Discarded wet
rags and used small, coarse, dry towels to
brush dust off udders, teats and flanks. Hands
were then washed under the running tap and
dried on a towel pinned to the milker's
jacket. Milking was carried out dry-handed,
hands being washed after each cow. Cows
with' mud on teats were, cleansed with water
from a bottle and dried before milking com-
menced. We noticed that milk trickled
from some cows whilst lying down; these
were put into the bails first to prevent in-
fection by yard dust. Have a plentiful
supply of clean towels in your shed and
keep an eagle eye on your heifers, and there
will be no mastitis.
“Ilomby” : As summer approaches growers
of bananas (especially the Cavendish
variety) will be worrying about sunburn.
Best protection is to tie to each bunch (in
awning form) the nearest couple of leaves.
Care is necessary to avoid breaks that would
let overhead rays through. Plantations in
valleys or other sites where the breeze
hasn’t free play especially require atten-
tion in this way.
“Rastus” : If the pony is hard to catch,
take a nut off a half-inch bolt and tie it to
the forelock —fairly short so as not to damage
the eyes. It won’t worry her while she is
grazing round; but when you go to catch
her and she makes off. the tap-tapping on
her forehead wall soon bring her to a stop.
“Kooragai”: If you have no shell grit
for the fowls, pound up the bits of broken
crockery that usually go to the rubbish tip.
This serves the same purpose, and is just
as eagerly picked up by the hens. The
mussel and other shells that are plentiful
around lagoons and swamps and the large
native snails found in scrubs also do as well
as broken up oyster-shells.
“Mintliall”: Though cockerels are bring-
ing just as good a price as capons, you can’t
beat a few capons for rearing chickens.
They’ll mother up to 30 chicks from hens
or incubator, and will forage and look after
them better than a hen. Place the capon
in a dry coop with some litter for a day, and
at night slip a few chicks under him, adding
daily till he gets his issue. Do the job
when the comb starts to show, and starve
the bird for a day before the operation.
“Emerald”: Twenty-five well-bred Corrie-
dale rams from Victoria have been bought
by a north-west Queensland grazier to mate
with picked merino ewes in an effort to put
more bulk and weight into the fleeces. Fine-
quality merinos of light-cutting fleeces have
hitherto predominated on the Mitchell grass
plains. Climatic conditions may not suit
the Corriedales as well as they do the
merino, but the progeny of the cross may
become immune to adverse conditions. If
so the small low-cutting merinos so com-
monly seen in the north-west may lose
caste with growers. Quality may suffer a
little, but if the objective of getting bulkier
fleeces without having to introduce again
the wrinkly type of merinos is reached the
experimenter with the Corriedales will
receive the thanks of the grazing fraternity.
“Johnno”: Seville oranges have been a
drug on the market since 1929. Many Queens-
land growers have been able to dispose of
only part of their crops. Unless extensive
uprooting or grafting is practised years of
over-supply arc ahead; in Queensland alone
scores of young orchards are coming into
bearing, and well-kept mature trees are pro-
producing larger and larger crops each year.
The Seville is easy to grow ; the most casual
worker can become a successful grower
given a suitable piece of ground. If you
must grow them, plant seedlings where trees
won’t be in the way. They are longer in
coming into bearing than the grafted trees
and conditions may have improved by the
time you get a crop.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. . '
The service is entirely free. AH you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of lasi
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, dispensing exp., wants position as secretaiy-
housekeeper to doctor, Newcastle (N.S.W.) district
preferred.—223l.
Mate witli exp. of sluicing, preferably with
conveyance, wanted to exploit N.S.W. alluvial pros-
pect.—26ol.
Man with dairy farm, inland N.S.W., wants
partner to work farm on share basis and help to
stock it. —2227.
Young woman (22), Vic., exp. librarian, book-
keeping, typing and shorthand, seeks position
library, reception desk or professional rooms. Refs.
—2295.
To buy Nos. 3 to 7, 10 and 11, Baeyertz’s “Course
in English.”—2264.
To buy copies of English “Motor” and “Auto-
car,” published prior to 1922. —2251.
To buy copy of “Victoria, Its Mines and Minerals”
(1899).—2270.
To buy Yale positive oiler or -similar contrivance
for Model T Ford car.—224l.
To buy “The' Old ’Bus,” by Kingsford Smith.
—2237.
To buy “The Australian Butcher’s Manual.” —2280.
To buy second-hand copy of “The Hamwood
Papers of the Ladies of Llangollen and Lady Caro-
line Hamilton.”—2296.
Information Sought.
Is it allowable to fish for Murray cod in
the rivers of N. S. Wales during October
and November with a rod and line? —2133.
The use of a single rod and line or hand-
line with not more than two hooks attached
will be permitted in the western waters of
N.S.W. during October and November; but
the sale of western-river fish during the
months in question will be prohibited as
usual.
(1) Subscription far membership of the
Sydney Cricket Ground? (2) Is there a
full membership at present? (3) What
privileges do members enjoy? (4) If l
joined now would I secure seating accom-
modation in the members’ stand by the time
the Test matches start? —2202.
(1) Full members, entrance fee, £3 35.;
subscription, £3 7s. 6d. p.a., which carries one
lady’s ticket. Country members (resident
50 or more miles from Sydney), entrance
fee, £1 11s. 6d.; subscription £1 2s. 6d.
p.a. No lady’s ticket. (2) Yes. (3)
Admission to the ground at all times. (4)
You cannot join now, but your name can
go on the waiting list. How long you would
have to wait for membership cannot be
prophesied.
(1) What type of receiver would be suit-
able for receiving television signals? (2)
Could such a set be operated off power
obtained from the electric-light mains? (3)
Are broadcast receivers suitable for this
class of work? (4) Gould a television re-
ceiver be used for the reception of broadcast
signals f—2334.
(1) A suitable television receiver would
consist of two screened radio frequency stages
employing screen-grid valves, and designed to
pass the wide frequency band essential for
good television reception; a detector, resist-
ance coupled to the input of a three stage
resistance-coupled amplifier. (2) Yes. (3)
Not as a rule. (4) Yes, provided that it
tuned up to the broadcast wave-band.
I intend building a three-valve battery set
employing two-volt valves and a six-volt fila-
ment accumulator which I already have. (1)
Gould these three valves be wired in series?
(2) Would this method be the more economi-
cal? (3) Should the filament current flow
from the last valve to the first, or vice versa?
2229.
(1) Yes, provided all three valves take
the same filament current. (2) Yes, in the.
series method, the current drain would be
three times smaller than in the parallel
method of connection. (3) From the last
valve to the first, as by so doing, advantage
may he taken of the voltage drop across the
filaments to provide some, or all. of the
required grid bias.
Is there a market for smoked fish in
Q’land? Could a trade' be worked up with
Townshend Island as a base? —2150.
Demand is limited, but growing. A per-
son resident at Townshend Island would
probably find it difficult to place a suitable
product in good condition on the Brisbane
market at remunerative prices, but he could
arrange to have a practical test in this
respect by communicating with the Fisher-
men’s Co-operative Co., Brisbane, or one of
the firms in Brisbane handling fish in large
quantities. Otherwise he might arrange to
test the market at Mackay and Rock-
hampton.
Charges payable in respect of traffic across
the Sydney Harbor Bridge? —2324.
Motor-cars and motorcycles with sidecars,
6d. each; bicycles, tricycles, motor-cycles
without sidecars, light vehicles propelled by
hand or horse-drawn, 3d. each; vans, lorries,
drays or other vehicles of which the tare
weight does not. exceed 2 tons, Is. each- 2
tons to 3 tons, 2s. each; vehicles not other-
wise specified, 35.; persons riding in vehicles
(other than the driver), adults, 3d. each,
children, Id. each ; horse and rider, 3d. each ;
horses or cattle (loose stock), 2d. per head;
sheep or pigs, Id. each.
(1) How many nations competed in
the 1932 Olympic. Games? (2) Names
of those in .the first five places, and
number of points allotted to each? (3)
What place did Australia gain, and how
many points? (4) Did Charlton compete in
any finals, and how did he fare. (5) What
individual gained the greatest number of
points for any country, and who gained the
greatest number for Australia? —2252. .
(1) 40. (2) U.S.A., 740 J; Italy, 2624:
Japan, 160; Sweden, 154; France and Ger-
many, each 151; Britain, 144. (3) 12th
with 46 points. (4) Yes, in 400
came 6th in final. (5) Mildred Didrikson
(U.S.A.), athlete, 25 points. Duncan Gray,
cyclist, scored 13 points for Australia.
What were the circumstances in which the
N.S.W. Government prohibited trade <n
Maori heads?- —2304.
The traffic in these relics was carried on
extensively and there was reason to believe
that it conduced to murder. The N.S.W.
Government decreed such trade illegal in
1831. The heads were valued for the elabo-
rate tattooing of the face.
(1) What parts of a crocodile's carcase are
of commercial value? (2) What markets
exist for such products? (3) Would croco-
dile-hunting in Q’lund and N.T. be profitable?
—1993.
(1) The related alligator is captured in
America for its hide, oil, ivory, flesh, skele-
ton and eggs. (2) Apparently there is a
market in the U.S.A. for these products.
There is a market for the hide of the croco-
dile in Australia, but it is not in great
demand at present. (3) Very doubtful.
What conditions must be observed and fees
paid by a man and woman, adults and resi-
dents of Melbourne, who wish to get mar-
ried before a registrar?- —2187.
Both parties must give the Registrar three
clear days’ notice. There is no fee.
Are there any N. S. Wales timbers, used
for building purposes, immune to attacks of
white ants ? —2201.
White cypress (heartwood, not sapwood)
is practically wliite-ant resistant and is the
best of all timbers in the State for this
purpose.
/ have a motor-truck registered at Ash-
ford (N.S.W.) as a commercial lorry. Am
I breaking the law if I take a party of
friends out for a picnic in the car? —2146.
Doubtful. In country districts permits
are issued on payment of Is. each authoris-
ing the conveyance of picnic parties by goods
motor vehicles between points where com-
petition with the railways is not involved, or
where it is considered reasonable railway
facilities are not available. Application for
permits should be made at the nearest dis-
trict registry.
I am the owner of a N.S.W. property
and have trouble with people shooting pro-
tected and out-of-season game. (1) Can I
have my property proclaimed a sanctuary?
(2) Can I have myself appointed an honor-
ary ranger? (3) In such circumstances
ivould I be allowed to shoot on the property
myself? —2lo7.
(1) and (2) You can make application to
that effect to the Under Secretary, ChUf
Secretary’s Department, Sydney. (3) The
owner of any property situate in a pro-
claimed sanctuary has no authority to shoot
protected birds or animals.
Are the gathering and sale of orchids from
Crown lands on Cape York Peninsula
offences against the 1aw?— 1732.
The removal of any protected native
plants, ferns or orchids from any Grown
lands in Queensland is prohibited under the
Protection of Native Plants Act.
Number of occasions that a bar to the
Victoria Cross has been awarded, and indivi-
duals decorated? —l99l.
Two occasions, the recipients being Lieu-
tenant A. Martin-Leake. R.A.M.C. (British
Army), and Captain N. G. Ch'avasse, attached
Liverpool Regiment (British Army).
What are the peculiarities of the colobus
monkey ? —2271.
It is known as the thumbless monkey.
Hair is long and silky and white, except
for the centre of back and head, which are
black. It has a long, bushy, white tail and
is strictly arboreal. At certain hours, especi-
ally in early morning, these animals make
a croaking sound, passing it on from group
to group for great distances. These mon-
keys inhabit the forest plateaus of East and
Central Africa at an altitude of 6000 feet
and over.
Grounds surrounding my home at Naira-
been (N.S.W.) are infested with fleas. llow
can I get rid of them? —2ls7.
Probably they are sand-fleas; and if the
house is close to the beach it may be im-
possible to get rid of them. Pour 2 table-
spoons phenyle into a 2-gallon watering-can
of water and sprinkle over the ground; per-
severe with this over a period of at least
three weeks, to catch subsequent hatchings.
This insecticide will kill grass or flowers,
so lawns or gardens should be sprinkled
instead with powdered naphthalene. Use
kerosene plentifully in the house by sprink-
ling it on floor-dusters, and wipe round
woodwork with turpentine or a floor-polish
containing turpentine.
(1) What period of training must a girl
desirous of becoming a public schoolteacher
in Victoriaundergo? (2) Educational quali-
fications to enter a training college? —2101.
(1) A candidate must serve first as a
junior teacher, the qualifications for which
are the. possession of the Leaving Certificate
of the Uni., or approved equivalent, evi-
dence of good moral character and of
health. Candidates must not be less than
16 years of age. (2) Candidates must have
served at least one year as junior teacher
and be recommended by the District In-
spector. They are selected according to the
number and value .of the subjects passed
at their literary. examinations and accord-
ing to evidence adduced as to aptitude fox-
teaching.
(1) Value of free railway passes issued
to Vic. members of State Parliaments?
(2) Is the privilege extended to wives and
families? (3) Value of passes issued to
former members and former Ministers? (4)
Do their wives and families travel free?
(5) Value of interstate concessions allowed
at the expense of the State? —1680.
(1) The Treasury pays the Railway De-
partment £9OOO p.a. in respect of various
services, including these. (2) No. (3)
Passes are not issued to former members
unless they have served as Executive
Councillors. The cost of the service is in-
cluded in the payment of £9OOO. (4) No.
(5) These concessions are included in the
service covered by the payment of £9OOO
and are estimated to cost about £2700.
I am about to take up a position in the
Solomon Islands (Australian portion).
(11 Shall 1 be liable to Federal income tax?
(2) Is there a local income tax? —2055.
(1) No. (2) No; at least, the Federal
Taxation Department lias heard of none.
When were the bugle calls “Reveille” and
“Rouse” of the British Army adopted, and
what is their purpose? —lBBs.
“Reveille” is a trumpet or bugle call
blown in barracks or camp at the hour laid
down for the troops to rise and start the
day. The call blown on the trumpet differs
from that on the bugle. The name ( is
derived from the French r&veiller, “to
awaken.” The earliest record of its use is
in a work translated from the French in
1639. “Rouse” is a bugle call for use in
units of infantry only. The call is familiar
to soldiers as the categorical “Get Out of
Bed, Get Out of Bed,” and is very much
shorter than “Reveille.” History first re-
cords its use in 1802. It was probably used
very much earlier. No indication can be
found in regard to occasions when one call
is used in place of the other, except that
the “Rouse” is an infantry call only. By
custom, however, the “Rouse” is fairly fre-
quently used in camps and bivouacs in lieu
of the “Reveille.” The longer call (“Re-
veille”) is invariably blown on occasions
when buglers are massed to blow the warn-
ing.
What gives the sky its color? —2045.
It is caused by the selective scattering
of sunlight by molecules of air and other
small particles in the atmosphere. The
white light from the sun is made up of
different wave lengths, corresponding to the
different colors, ranging from red with the
longest wave length to violet with the short-
est. When the light reaches the earth’s
atmosphere the air molecules and particles
scatter some of the light in all directions.
The color of the scattered light is mainly
blue because the amount of light scattered
is greater for the smaller wave lengths, i.e.,
the blue end of the spectrum. Hence an
observer looking at the sky away from the
sun sees it as blue because he is receiving
scattered rays from particles and molecules
which are giving out light predominantly
blue. If the observer looks at the sky near
the sun it is nearly white, because the direct
white light from the sun is what mainly
reaches his eye. At sunset or sunrise the
sky looks red because the light from the sun
passing through the immense number of dust
particles in the lower strata suffers loss
of the smaller wave-length light by scatter-
ing, so that the red is mainly left to reach
the observer’s eye. This can be illustrated
by passing light through a transparent tube
containing very small particles. If the
room is otherwise dark, looking along the
tube it will appear red, whereas looking
from the side the scattered light will make
it appear blue.
Excise and Customs duties collected by
(1) Australia and (2) United Kingdom on
tobacco? —1983.
(1) 1939-31 excise duty, £3,283,546:
Customs duties, £2,875,936. (2) No par-
ticulars of excise duty are available for the
United Kingdom; the duty applies only to
tobacco grown in Great Britain and license
fees from dealers and manufacturers. The
amount of Customs duty collected on imports
into the United Kingdom for home consump-
tion for 1930 was £62,930,060.
In reply to a request for information
about the dorado fish of South America you
give particulars of the salt-water dolphin
fish. The fish I refer to is described in a book
which states it is a fine'fresh-water sporting
fish. What I want to know is whether the
South American dorado is related to the
salmon or trout, and other main facts con-
cerning it. —1854.
Our reply was correct, as can be verified
by consulting any of the standard authori-
ties. The authors of the book you mention
have erroneously tacked on to a member of
the family Charaeinidw a name which has
long been given to quite another sort of fish.
The fish wrongly called the dorado by their,
belongs to the genus Salminus. They are
not related either to the trout or the salmon,
though their English name is “golden sal-
mon.” Their color is mainly old gold, with
some dark green on the back and a whitish
belly. The fins are pinkish-red and a crim-
son bar extends along the middle of the tail.
S. maxillosus is found in all the rivers of
the Plate system, the Parana, the Uruguay,
the Paraguay and also the Amazon and
other rivers. The chief fishing is done in
the Plate system. S. brevidens, very simi-
lar to S. Maxillosus, is found in Brazil, in
the Rio San Francisco and its tributaries,
including the Rio Cipo. The fish reaches
a length of over 4ft. and a weight of up-
wards of 501 b., and is an extremely good
sporting fish. The fishing season extends
from September to January.
Qualifications for appointment to the Vie.
mounted police? —2o96.
Applicants must be over 20 and under 27.
except returned soldiers and sailors enlisted
from Australia, who are eligible up to 35.
The minimum height is sft. 9in.; weight
(stripped), lOst. 81b.; chest measurement,
expiration, 35.5 in., inspiration. 38in. The
minimum weight and chest measurements are
increased in proportion to height. Candi-
dates are subjected to a strict medical exam-
ination and are required to undergo an
examination in reading, writing from dicta-
tion and the first four rules in arithmetic.
They must also pass in riding, the police
officer examining.
Does Anybody Know?
Who invented the revolving lawn-sprinkler
—2283.
Brief Answers.
F.D.; The Potato Marketing Board,
VVilson-street, Burnie, Tas., will send you a book of
recipes... .H.H.: Lines are from Shelley’s “Adonais.”
. ...C.D.M.: (1) The first vehicle ferry in Sydney ran
from Abbotsford to Kissing Point. It was proposed in
1828 and came about without much delay, but
there is no record of the date on which the ferry
ran for the first time, nor when it was taken off.
(2) Your statement with regard to the Pittwater-
road is correct W.C.D.: (1) A silo 15ft. diameter,
10ft. high, would hold nearly 16 tons of oaten or
wheateri chaff; (2) 10ft. diameter, 10ft. high, 7
tons... .E.G.8.: The legend that 1914 Australian
pennies are of greater value than those struck in
other years—due to an accidental inclusion of gold
—has no foundation in fact A.M.: (1) Wife is
entitled to her earnings free from any claim by
her husband except for such allowance to him as
may be agreed upon for having the use of his part
ownership in property. (2) He could sue for
a restitution of conjugal rights and then apply for a
divorce... .5.J.8.: Lombroso’s “The Soul of Woman”
was published in London in 1924 and is now out of
print. Anet’s “Petite Ville” was published in
Paris in 1921. We know of no English translation...
CJ.H.: In dry-point etching the drawing is scratched
on the bare metal with a sharp tool. It is printed
in the same way as an ordinary etching... .0.0.:
W.A. issued its first postage stamp in 1854. It
was engraved on steel by Perkins, Bacon and Co.,
the design being a swan swimming to the left in
an oblong inscribed frame W. 8.: Keith Smith
was the elder. He was born at Adelaide on December
20, 1890; Ross Smith was born at Semaphore
(S.A.) on December 4, 1892 H.R.L.: Yallimbilla
means “two men”; Noamurra, “man and wife”;
Erambie, “crayfish”; and Awaba, “plain surface”—
all are N.S.W. abo. words... .M.R.: There are
several very hard timbers known to bushmen under-
the name “axe-breaker.” The one you refer to is,
from the description, probably coobagum ( N . longi-
folia)... .W.F.: The introduction cf silver foxes
into the Commonwealth is prohibited.... M. 11.:
English coin was made the currency of Tonga by
statute passed by the Tongan Parliament in 1906.
Tongan Government notes were issued in 1919, and
at present notes to the value of £21,000 are in
circulation. The issue is secured by a coin and
investment reserve... .P.M.: “Modern Language
Review” (Quarterly, 75.), Cambridge University
Press, Fetter-lane, London, E.C.4; “Modern
Languages” (six times yearly, Is.), 4 Plowden
Buildings, Temple, London, E.C.4... .W.R.K.: The
tree is probably Pistacia vera, a native of Western
Asia. Although its habitat is in the temperate
zone, its native climate is both drier and more
continental than that of Tasmania. At the same
time the tree could probably be grown in Tas.
Can’t say whether it is big enough to be classed
as an avenue tree... .D.F.S.: Gestation in elephant
is 24 months for a male calf and 22 for a female.
Dog and fox do not breed together.... J.A.H.: (1)
No, under the present provisions of the Act. (2)
Can’t prophesy concerning future amendments of
the pension laws.... S. J.: The high jump record for
•an Australian horse is 7ft. 10-Ain. jumped at Albury
show by The Hawk, owned by W. J. Perry....
. ...H.S.: A gelding is a castrated horse; a colt
is a young male horse... .J.L.0.: Write Australian
Massage Association, 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
. ...M.M.: No; subsidies from the Consolidated
Revenue Fund are made in both instances... .E.M.8.:
The practice with well-established firms is to pur-
chase the serial rights and pay in advance of publi-
cation. If you haven’t an agreement, submit a
claim; and if the firm is unwilling to pay for the
serial as a whole before publication is completed,
accept payment for such proportion as has been
published... .F. 8.: Write Commonwealth Dept, of
Health, Melbourne, Yic F.R.: “The South and
East African Year-Book” (4s. Gd.), obtainable
through leading booksellers... .A.K.: Write to him
stating that such trees, when grown, will be the
cause of serious injury to you and may involve
litigation, and request him to remove them....
R.A.L.: Write Secretary, Institute of Decorative
Art, 3 Spring-street, Sydney... .E.G.W.: Write to
the Agrostologist, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney,
furnishing full particulars.... F.L.: An account of
the coal resources of Australia will be found in the
“Report to the World Power Conference,” 1924,
made by the Australian Institution of Engineers....
H.D.: James Alston and Sons, Queen’s Bridge ; Webb
Bros., 286 City-road—both South Melbourne; and
Dalgety’s, 461 Bourke-street, Melbourne, all sell
electricity-generating windmills. Particulars on
request... .W.G.8.: It is worth Is A.P.: Vic.
Agriculture Dept, will forward you plan of sheep
dip upon request... .M.J.: Prospective candidates
for the position of dairy inspection in Vic. should
register their names with the Vic. Agriculture Dept,
so that they might be advised when the next exam-
ination is to be held. The commencing salary is
£246 10s C.R.: Ginger rhizomes for future
planting may be stored in dry sand... .C.J.: The
churns are obtainable from Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Sydney... .F.C.H.: Write to the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-street,
Sydney. J.A.M.: (1) Five years’ experience in trade,
period spent at technical school such as Working-
men’s College, Melbourne, counting as part of term.
(2) By Automobile Chamber of Commerce, 353
Elizabeth-street, which supplies particulars... .G. 8.:
Sydney Town Hall was opened July 1, 1875. It cost
£80,000... .C.K.: The first trial by jury in the
Supreme Court, N.S.W., took place on Feb. 12,
1825. .. .P.F.E.: It comprises all New Guinea west of
141st meridian. It occupies an area of 151,789
square miles, or nearly one half of the island. The
native population of the territory is estimated at
200,000 W.W.: Write Inspector-General of Con-
stabulary, Suva, Fiji. .. .E.8.K.: “Trade and
Technical Writing for Profit,” by Bernard Brown
(4s. 6d.) M.S.: “Facts and Fallacies of Douglas
Credit,” by Professor D. B. Copland (15.)....
J.L.: You are bound by the terms of the lease.
Better approach the landlord and see if you can
compromise W.E.G.: The question raised is one
for the State Industrial Registrar, Chalfont Chambers,
Phillip-street, Sydney... .F.L.P.: Get in touch with
the St. John Ambulance Assoc., 62 Margaret-street,
Sydney... .M.S.F.: To join the U.S.A. navy the
applicant must be a naturalised resident of the U.S.A.,
18 years of age, and able to pass the physical and
mental examinations prescribed. Impossible to enlist
in the navy outside of U-S. territory... .R.N.: Shot-
hole borers do not attack seasoned timber, but
only poorly developed growing trees and felled logs
with a supply of sap in them. .. . J.A.: A friar is a
member of one of the orders whose work
lies among the people, such as the Franciscans,
Dominicans, Carmelites and Augustinians. A monk
is a member of a monastery... .R.S.: Write Agri-
cultural Dept., Washington, D.C., U.S.A., for series
of pamphlets on cultivation of medicinal plants
W.W.W.: After the Prince of Wales and the Duke
of York would come the Princess Elizabeth and the
Princess Margaret, daughters of the Duke of York ;
the Duke of Gloucester and Prince George; then
Princess Mary and her children.... (Many others
mailed.)


One Punch Patsy
By
Montague Grover
Synopsis: Throwing in his job at an
Illawarra coalmine, Patsy Quirk,
amateur middleweight champion of
Australia 3 trains under Buff Cody for
his first prof essional fight—with Loubet,
middleweight champion of France,
at the Stadium. After twenty rounds
it ends in a draw. But Patsy
wins approval of press and public,
and breaks down his family’s hos-
tility to his new career. Horace
Egan matches him against Chiller
Spiers. Buff welcomes Patsy back to
the camp. At his studio Stan Carlisle,
an artist friend, shows them a drawing,
‘■The Awakening of Titania.” Buff
pronounces it “ ’ot stuff”; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. Spiers is knocked out in the
tenth. Patsy signs with the Stadium
for five fights for £5OO. He asks
Phyllis Deane, an attractive commercial
artist wham he met through Stan, to
come for an outing to celebrate. She
declines, telling him she is sitting for
Stan’s “Titania” picture. Patsy is
shocked. Bursting in indignantly on
Stan, she rails against Patsy for being
a wowser, and is greatly disgusted to
learn that this Patsy is the well-known
boxer.
Chapter XIV {Continued).
IT was after his next trip home, when he
was training for the contest with Armand
Laroche, another of the French contin-
gent, that Patsy committed his next
blunder.
On the opening day of the Society of
Artists’ Show he attended with some of
the party from the camp. He arrived early,
and there, among Stan’s pen-drawings, he
saw “The Awakening of Titania.” It had
a crowd around it already, for Stan had
risen superior to all his earlier achievements.
As Patsy looked at the drawing he saw
Phyllis in every line of it. It seemed as.if
Stan had made some alteration to fix the
portraiture.. Every line seemed to proclaim
the identity of the model. He feared that
Buff Codjr might.recognise her.
Patsy' was utterly ignorant of things
artistic; but, knowing the work and skill
involved, he reckoned that Stan must price
it at fully £5O or £6O. He turned up the
catalogue and noted that the price was
only £lO. He left Buff Cody and walked
over to the secretary’s table.
“I’d like to buy that Titania of Stan
Carlisle’s,” he announced.
The secretary took his name, plastered
a red wafer on the frame of the drawing
and remarked: “I congratulate you, Mr.
Quirk, on your perception. That picture
would have brought three times the price
before the show was over.”
Later, when Stan came in and grew en-
thusiastic over the sale, Patsy said nothing,
but slipped away, pluming himself on hav-
ing accomplished a masterpiece of tact. He
had scarcely gone before Phyllis sought
Stan in an agitated condition and drew him
aside.
“Do you know who bought Titania?” she
asked * excitedly. “Your prize-fighting
friend, Patsy Quirk. I just saw the entiy.
I suppose he wants to hang it in the camp
at Bondi to gloat over it and tell all his
Woolloomooloo friends who the model was.”
“Now, don’t be unfair, Phyllis; I don’t
know' why Patsy bought the drawing, but
I do know that both your suggestions are
quite mean. I’ll see him about it to-night.”
She spoke bitterly. “Mind, he’s not to
have it, if I have to do the suffragette act
and smash it up with a hammer. I’d sooner
die than let him have it, the evil-minded
brute.”
Stan went out to Bondi that evening.
“Look here, Patsy, that’s over the odds
buying that drawing. Phyllis saw your
name and she’s throwing a fit about it.
What on earth did you do it for?”
“I bought it to give to another fellow,”
answered Patsy. “He thinks the world of
it. He knows who the girl is and takes
special interest in it.”
“What on earth are you talking about,
Patsy?”
“Why, you silly cow,” replied Patsy,
“there’s only three of us know, and you’re
one. Can’t you tumble? I got it for you.”
“My own drawing as a present?” laughed
Stan.
“That’s right. You’d be sorry if you sold
that picture for £lO. It’ll be worth a heap
more to you, from what I heard to-day.
Besides. I didn’t want any stranger to get
it.”
“Thanks, Patsy, old man,” said Stan.
“Forgive me for anything I thought about
you. I shouldn’t really have offered the
drawing for sale. You’re a good sort, Patsy,
if you did make a fool of yourself once.”
From the camp Stan walked round to
the place where Phyllis boarded. The facts
speedily calmed her anger. “He’s a good
sort, that boy,” she mused. “Even if he
is a prize-fighter.”
“Besides, he wasn’t thinking of me alone,”
added Stan. “He said he bought it partly
because he didn’t like the idea of any
stranger having it.”
“The Puritan taint again,” she observed
with bitterness. “He can’t get away from
the idea that I’ve done something shameful.
That’s what hurts me.”
Chapter XV.
The time neared for the fight with
Laroche. Patsy was improving with every
contest. There was more finish in his work,
more confidence in his tactics. From the
timorous apprentice he had become the
capable journeyman; it remained to be
proved whether he would progress to cross
the line which separated the craftsman from
the artist and enter that tiny circle wherein
the masters, the elect, the Brahmins sat in
state.
He was quicker and stronger than ever.
His eye was keen as that of a bird, his
intuition was something supernatural. His
sparring partners were unable to put any
across. He could deal with them as he
wished.
He still regretted the loss of Phyllis’s
friendship, but it did not affect his spirits.
They were even more buoyant than ever,
and were spurred by the presence of Bert
Burnett, a cheerful, irresponsible who had
left Illawarra in disgrace, involved in the
wreck of a joy-ridden car, and was now
seeking sanctuary and food with his old
friend Patsy.
The camp, communistic in constitution,
had not grudged Bert his bed and board, for
it deemed itself amply recompensed by his
grotesqueries. Bert was one of those joyous
young men who should have been born in
the Middle Ages, when. they might have
attained to wealth and honor as court fools.
He was a genial, good-natured eccentric
with a faculty for singing comic songs very
badly and very amusingly, and a freak set
of facial muscles which enabled him to
move his features at will.
“ ’E’s a giddy goat, if ever I seen one,”
observed Buff Cody. “But yer can’t ’elp
laughin’ at ’im.”
Neither could people more intellectual
than Buff Cody. His burlesque of the aspir-
ing pug. entering the ring for the first
round of the novice competition made a
party of professional men visiting the camp
laugh until the tears ran down their cheeks.
Patsy was winning all along the line. He
had as much money as he wanted; the
sun was shining and everything seemed
rosy. Then the blow fell.
It was only three days from the fight
from Laroche. They had just tumbled out
of bed, and Patsy went out on the verandah
to get the morning paper. He did not
return, but Buff heard him pacing up and
down. He went out.
“What’s doin’, Patsy?” he asked at the
door.
“O God! O God! O God!” murmured
Patsy oblivious to everything-.
At last he saw Buff arid pointed to the
paper on the floor. Buff picked it up,
rushed through the news columns and saw
a long story dated from Illawarra. Des
Quirk had been arrested on a charge of
attempted murder!
There had been a strike at the Keira
Main for the past three weeks, but nobody
in the city or even the camp was particu-
larly interested. Even Patsy had lost touch
with the labor troubles of his native, town,
and had dismissed it as an affair which
would run its usual course. But there had
been a conflict at the mine, somebody had
thrown an iron casting, and it had struck a
son of the managing director, fracturing his
skull. Des Quirk had been identified as
the thrower.
“Hell!” cried Buff. He was sorry for
Patsy’s brother, whom he knew slightly, but
he was more concerned over the future of
his charge, which the occurrence threatened
to wreck or check. After all, for Des it
only meant going to gaol, and many of
Buff’s friends had done that, for periods
short or long. Going to gaol was part of
life—like teething or measles.
He told the others quietly, and advised
them to say nothing, and at last persuaded
Patsy to have some breakfast.
Recovered from the first shock, Patsy
began to think out some plan of campaign.
He had that £2so—he could get an advance
from the Stadium, if necessary; other pugs
did—and he would be able to see Des
through with the best lawyers possible to
obtain. He dressed hurriedly, sent a wire
to his mother and went to town to hunt up
Stan for advice.
Stan sent him to a firm of lawyers of
standing, and they agreed to take the case
m hand provided a local lawyer had not
already been secured at Illawarra.
Patsy caught the mid-day train. Jimmy
Packington met him on the station; he had
persuaded Martin and Mrs. Quirk to stay
at home, rather than provide a spectacle
for sensation hunters, and told Patsy as
speedily as possible the details of the affair.
There was no question of Des’s identity.
He had admitted that he was the thrower
of the casting—had been overwhelmed with
remorse and grief the moment he saw the
man fall. The only hope lay in an appeal
to the emotions of the jury. But Jimmy
was not veiy sanguine. The victim of the
assault was a young fellow of their own
age, a medical student, popular and well-
known and his injury was grave, indeed.
Jimmy took Patsy to the door of the
cottage, and, refusing Martin’s invitation
to enter, left the family to itself.
Patsy could do little to console his mother
except by promising that nothing should
be spared in his brother’s defence. Later
on, he went to the police station and had
another bitter experience in his meeting
with Des through the wicket of the cell.
“There’ll be a remand,” said Sergeant
Dunne, who had known all the Quirks
from Patsy’s infancy, and felt the trouble
almost as keenly as anybody not actually
related. “I don’t think they’ll give bail
till we see how young Jackson gets on.
You can do nothing, Patsy me boy, but
get a good lawyer. I’m sorry for you all,
that I am, for Des’s a good lad at heart.
And give your mother me sympathy,
Patsy.”
“I will, Sergeant,” replied Patsy. “Do
what you can for him as far as possible,
won’t you?”
“I will that; bitter enough it is to know
that he’s here,” assured the policeman.
Next morning Des was remanded to
Illawarra Gaol for a week, the application
for bail being refused, as Dunne had anti-
cipated.
Patsy stayed with his mother another day.
Then he returned to Sydney, for his fight
with Laroche was fixed for the next night.
Buff Cody shook his head as Pafey
walked into the camp. “Yer can’t git th’
fight put off,” he said. “I went down ter
see, but it’s too late It’s no good kiddin’
yer as everything’s right, fur it ain’t. Yer
not ’arf th’ man yer was at th’ start o’
th’ week. It’s too late now tryin’ ter
pick up yer form. Do yer best, lad. That’s
all I can say.”
“I’ll do my best, all right,” said Patsy
through his teeth. He might have lost
form, but he would enter this fight in a
frame of mind very different from previ-
ously. Hitherto fights had been just sport-
ing events, contests to be won for the joy
of winning. This was for the very liberty
of his brother. Patsy was quite ignorant
of the cost of law except that it was tre-
mendous, and he knew that, unless he pre-
vailed over Laroche, he would have small
chance of securing an advance from the
Stadium.
The fight itself was a wild joy to be-
holders during the five rounds it lasted.
Patsy threw tactics to the winds. He went
in to knock out or be knocked out. He
forced the battle from the gong, disdained
to dodge the Frenchman’s blows, and
dashed in, apparently without sense of pain
or sense of possible consequences. They had
never seen such a fight at the Stadium pre-
viously. The spectators were delirious. By
the end of the third round the men were
both dripping with blood and the ring
was slippery. There was a fear that the
police might interfere. The Frenchman
was as game as the fighting cock which
symbolises his land, but he was not fighting
for the liberty of his only brother. Patsy
had no thought but to hit.
Buff Cody in the corner did not give one
word of advice, but he shook with fear
lest Patsy should forget the end of the
rounds and be disqualified. Then, in the
fifth, in a tornado of blood and blows and
steam, the Frenchman came in on a left
swing—it was almost an uppercut. He just
crumpled on the floor like a wet rag. Quirk
the winner.
Chapter XVI.
“DTeckly I seen he’d got bail, I thinks
ter meself ‘lt’s up ter me ter slip down ter
Illawarra an’ give ’im a few points’,” an-
nounced Buff Cody as he took his seat in
Stan’s studio.
Stan had thought as much; that was
why he had sent Buff a wire to see him.
“Yer see,” explained Buff, “I know a bit
more about courts an’ gaols an’ things
like that than these people; an’ after all,
it’s experience as counts. I didn’t say so
ter Patsy, but it’s a guinea ter a goose-
berry as ’is brother goes up for ten years.
I know these ’ere Judges—cows they are,
most of ’em, though there are some decent
blokes among ’em. So I says ter meself
‘lt’s just as well ter put this poor cow
wise ter what ’e’s got ter face an’ show ’im
th’ soft places ter sit on.’ So I gets down
ter th’ ’Loo an’ ’unts up some o’ me ole
cobbers. I managed ter raise about ’alf—
th’ other ’alf’s out at Long Bay—but I
fixed up somethin’ for ’im. I got a list
’ere—a list o’ th’ blokes I know out there
—th’ decent blokes an’ th’ bad cows; an’ a
list o’ th’ screws—warders they are—as yer
can trust ter bring yer snout—that’s ter-
backer—an’ sneak a stiff—that’s a letter—
outside.”
He scanned a dirty slip of paper he had
unfolded. “Now,, there’s ’Arry ’Olmes, a
decent feller ’e is, doin’ five year; one o’
those good-natured, kind-’carted blokes,
always ready ter do anybody a good turn.
I can’t give Des a letter o’ interduetion a
course—-’e’s searched when ’e goes in—but
when ’e gets a chanst ter word ’Any ’e
might mention as ’e knows me, an’ ’e’ll
be right with ’Arry.”
“What’s Harry doing his five years for?”
asked Stan.
“Assault an’ robbery—woodened some
bloke with a bit o’ lead pipe. As straight a
chap as ever lived, with a ’eart like a
woman. Then there’s Nucko Barnes.”
“Look here, Buff; I’d cut it right out.
I’m sorry you’ve taken all this trouble, but
it’ll only hurt them.”
“Straight?” cried Buff.
“Straight,” replied Stan. “You don’t
know the sort of lad Des is. It isn’t the
prospect of the ten years that’s hurting
him. He’s the sort who’d do life for any
idea he values. It’s the thought of going to
gaol for what he knows he shouldn’t have
done. Don’t let him think of it till he
has to. Let Father Phelan have him. He’ll
make him more satisfied than any hints
you could give him. Anyhow, they’d be
thrown away on Des. From what I know
of the boy, he’d never make friends of any
of the prisoners he didn’t like himself.”
“Is that right?” asked Buff, to whom
this appeared an astounding proposition.
“A course you know ’em all. I don’t want
ter ’urt their feelin’s more’n they are
already.”
“Well, I'm sure you will, Buff, if you
talk like that.”
“That’s torn it,” announced the trainer.
“Th’ match’s off. I won’t breathe a word.”
“That’s right, Buff; I know you meant
well. But if you take my advice you won’t
■refer to the case at all, except when they
speak of it, and then just answer and close
up.”
“Righto; you know ’em best,” agreed
Buff. “But with anybody else—you, f’r
instance, if you should ever get inter trouble
—jest you let me know an’ I’ll put yer
fly ter every point in Long Bay.”
“Thanks,” replied Stan, smiling to him-
self. “I won’t forget your offer.”
“It ain’t nothin’,” said Buff, modestly.
“I’d do th’ same for any decent bloke.”
The Stadium management breathed a
sigh of relief over Patsy’s victory. The
manner of his fighting against Laroche made
a certainty of a mighty attendance the
next time he entered the ring. But it
wasn’t taking any further chances. It re-
frained from making any further matches
for him until the case of Des Qpirk was
finally disposed of, and Patsy was located
at Illawarra for the ensuing eight weeks.
It was a month before Wally Jackson had
recovered sufficiently to be brought into
the police court, and, after the committal,
another month before the trial. A high-
priced barrister came from Sydney and
made the only appeal he could—an appeal
to a jury drawn mostly from the working
classes to extend mercy to a mere youth
stung by the cruelties of the industrial
system into violence the result of which
was far from his thoughts at the time. He
called evidence of character, Sergeant
Dunne being a witness.
The jury was sympathetic, but the mam
evidence could not be rebutted or mini-
mised. A verdict of guilty was returned,
with a recommendation to mercy. The
Judge sentenced Des to five years’ imprison-
ment. .
It was the climax of nearly three months
of anguish gradually intensifying. Pats}
remained with his father and mother until
Mis. Quirk once more began to take an
interest in her surroundings. Several of her
women friends promised to see that she
was alone as little as possible, and altei
several delays Patsy obeyed the summons
of the Stadium to prepare for his next fighj
He went into his work of training with
renewed vigor. ,
Money would get anything m hte n
had heard that always, and since coming to
Sydney he had been inclined to believe it.
Then, money ought to be able to get JJe>
out of gaol, and he was out after all (
money in the world.
The first thing was to clean up these
remaining contract fights—for the defence
of Des had eaten a big hole in the over-
drawn £250. Once he had cleared oft this
liability—assuming that he went throng ‘
unbeaten—his popularity would be sue 1
that he could get the best terms obtain-
able for subsequent contests.
The Stadium was not loth to burry mat-
ters. Patsy Quirk was now too good a
drawing card to leave on the shelf for longei
than possible. He was given three, weeks .
get ready for a match with Pommie Smi i.
who, like many English fighters- a
developed suddenly into a middleweight in
Australia. Smith had parted company wi 1
Buff Cody’s string of pugs, and no reason
stood in the way of the fixture, except
diffidence of Smith himself, who had giav
misgivings about facing the lad whose &P e 1
he had so closely observed and whose P°"
he had felt in friendly spars.
“ ’E’s easy,” commented Bun to i
Burnett. “Th’ man who thinks he s gomter


Well below To-day’s Landed Cost!
Mick Simmons ’
Slashing Reductions in
&
AUTOGRAPH
BATS
“DON BRADMAN” 4 Crown,
Original Price, 67/6. NOW
“DON BRADMAN” 3 Crown
Original Price, 59/6. NOW .
“DON BRADMAN” 2 Crown,
Original Price, 49/6. NOW .
CRICKETERS!
PARTICULARLY NOTE!
These “Bradman” Bats represent a late shipment of last
season. That is not to their detriment. Every bat is
beautifully seasoned, having been oiled, faced and treated
regularly throughout the winter months. This alone, you
will agree, has enhanced their value considerably. It must
be realised that the price reductions are actually less than
to-day’s landed costs. Every bat is perfect and up to the
high standard previously set by the manufacturers.
49/6
39/6
35/-
METROPOLITAN CLUBS! AVAIL YOURSELVES OF
MICK SIMMONS’ GRADUAL PAYMENT PLAN
A Low Deposit secures a full complement of material for your club.
Gradual easy repayments. Full particulars on application.
(Carriage paid on Cricket Bats.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney.
Mick Simmons Im.
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
CSS
■ :
SEE
clocl^
7
o
as
aa
RBC!
TRAC*
MARK
PATENT NOS
272629
272763
m
§
igiasi
in
.bt*"'
o
a
0
m
j
These new blades have been a triumph!
No one thought it possible to make
such perfect blades at so low a price.
Users are telling us that they realise at
last what a safety razor shave can be.
Keenness beyond words. Velvety, glid-
ing smoothness. And the price—five
for a shilling and sixpence! Try them.
Every dealer sells Seven o’clock blades
for double-edged razors.
BLADES
Double edged
MADE IN ENGLAND
be beaten is beaten. Pommie’s dead
mutton for Patsy, but don’t let on I said
so. It’s bad for blokes ter take it too
easy. Let ’em think as they can jest about
win be trjdn’ all they know.”
Buff was right. Pommie made a brave
fight—a braver fight than most of the spec-
tators were aware, for he knew full well
that he was marked for sacrifice from the
time the match was made. He contrived to
last out fourteen rounds. Then Patsy
hooked him coming out of a clinch, and,
seeing that their man would not outlast
the round, his seconds threw in the towel.
The next contest was a return match with
Loubet and served to indicate Patsy’s im-
provement. The Frenchman was manifestly
outclassed. He fought gamely a fight which
was hopeless before the end of the first
round—so gamely that the police interven-
tion at the end of the fifth was regarded
by many as belated.
For the final fight under the contract
Patsy was pitted against Bark McCabe, a
newly-arrived American, who had come
fi-esh from his home with the record of a
draw, less than six months ago, with Hooker
Fenner, who had since become middle-
weight champion of the world. Except for
having been twice outpointed at the open-
ing of his career, three years ago, McCabe
was an unbeaten man. He had press cut-
tings to show that/in the opinion of half
a dozen experts, he should have been given
the decision in his drawn fight with Fenner.
He was plainly the biggest proposition to
face Patsy to date, a.nd Buff Cody was
especially cautious in his training.
Chapter XVII.
The interest in Patsy’s fights—accumulat-
ing in geometrical progression with each
contest—rose to fever heat. Betting became
heavy. Each night in Tattersall’s Club
wagers were booked on the result of the
fight, a recent influx of Americans leading
to solid support for McCabe. The prize
swayed with the money forthcoming on
behalf of each man; but, when the market
settled, odds of six to four were laid on
Patsy.
The training camps of both men were
crowded daily; as many as a hundred
people would turn up at Ben Buckler to
see Patsy and his companions throwing
the medicine ball, sparring or ball-punching.
For the last week the training of both was
transferred to the Stadium itself, and the
attendances, no longer free, began to
approach the five hundred mark.
“There’s somethin’ I want ter speak ter
yer about when we can git somewheres
quiet,” murmured Buff to Patsy as they
left the Stadium one afternoon. Later, he
broached the subject.
“Well, it’s this way,” he began. “I s’pose
yer ain’t in th’ game for yer ’ealth—yer
want ter git rich quick like th’ rest of us?”
“I suppose so,” replied Patsy. “What’s
biting you, Buff?”
“It’s like this,” replied Buff. “What I
mean is, yer know there’s a pot o’ money
gointer change ’ands over this ’ere fight.
They’re bettin’ up in town ’ell for leather.”
“I’ve heard about it, Buff,” said Patsy.
“Well, yer see there’s a ’eap o’ things
ter be considered.”
“Of course, there are; but what’s worry-
ing you? Come to the point,” demanded
Patsy.
“I wouldn’t say a word, on’y it’s me juty
as yer trainer—savee?”
“Yes; but get busy, Buff. Beef it out,
whatever it is.”
“It’s this way,” resumed Buff.
“Yes, you said it was this way before;
but what way?”
“Yer see, yer a young feller,” explained
Buff, “an’ yer under contrack. Gawd
knows what made yer sign, but there it is,
an’ whether yer win or lose, it’s all th’ same
ter you. As th’ bloke with th’ monkey
trick at th’ races says, ‘Th’ game’s all fair
an’ th’ monkey don’t care who wins or who
loses’.” Buff breathed hard. “Well,” he
recommenced, after a pause.
“Don’t say ‘lt’s this way’ again or I’ll
get another trainer,” cried Patsy desperately.
“Is this continuous vaudeville or what?”
“Well,” continued Buff, nerving himself,
“yer know Ben Wallace, th’ bookie?”
“I’ve seen him.”
“ ’E comes ter me ter-day an’ ’e says, ‘Yer
trainin’ Patsy for th’ fight,’ ’e says—‘what
sort is ’e?’ A course I tole ’im, an’ ’e says
‘Will ’e listen ter reason?’ ’e says. ‘There’s
a coupler ’undred o’ th’ best for you an’
’im ter cut up if ’e’ll go down ter Bark
McCabe.” Buff sat back relieved. He had
braved and accomplished what he regarded
as an unpleasant duty.
“Nothing doing, Buff,” Patsy shook his
head. “I’m not wanting to get rich as
quick as that.”
“No; I thought yer wouldn’t. I tole ’im
so,” replied Buff. “But yer can’t blame
me. I on’y did me juty in tellin’ yer.”
“That’s all right, Buff,’ replied Patsy.
“But if anyone else comes the same game
again, you know what to say.”
“Too right I do,” assured Buff. “It’s
them sort as spoils good sport.”
The following day, Ben Wallace, book-
maker of considerable financial standing,
made a grave and painful error of judg-
ment. When Buff had conveyed to him
the intimation that Patsy was not to be
squared, he sounded Buff himself on the
possibility of his accepting the whole two
hundred pounds in return for so fixing Patsy
by dope or other means that McCabe’s
victory would be assured.
“Th’ dirty dawg!” commented Buff sub-
sequently, when Patsy had bailed him out.
“Wanted me ter throw yer down'—a thing
I never done yet. I says ter ’im”—Buff
explained what he had said to Ben Wal-
lace. “Then me feelin’s got th’ better o’
me, an’ I passed ’im one in th’ eye—a
solid punch it was, too, I promise yer. ’E
went down like a stuck pig. I wished I’d
killed th’ cow. Then th’ johns come. ‘I
give this ’ere man in charge for assault,’
’e says as they got ’im up. ‘A mong like
you,’ I says, Trying ter git me ter throw
down th’ man I’m trainin’!’ I goes quiet
ter th’ Central an’ gits ’em ter ring yer
up. Th’ johns was decent blokes an’ says
as ’ow it served ’im right. An’ so it did,
th’ cow.”
The brawl created intense interest in
sporting circles, and De Vernay instantly
saw its advertising possibilities. He rushed
round to all the newspaper offices with full
details, and these—greatly modified in-
deference to the law of libel—appeared to
attract a thousand people to the police
court. Ben Wallace turned up with an ex-
pensive lawyer, the Stadium saw that Buff
was adequately represented, and Bark
McCabe had a leading man to watch his
interests. The evidence, though scarcely
convincing, was clear. Wallace swore that
Buff simply applied to him an opprobrious
epithet and struck him. He denied, stoutly
in cross examination, that he had ever sug-
gested either the squaring or hocussing of
Patsy. Buff was fairly truthful, except in
regard to the language used. He asserted
vehemently that he had at no time applied
to the prosecutor any zoological terms or
that he had questioned his legitimacy.
Other witnesses contradicted both Wallace
and Buff in details, but all agreed that the
assault was not sudden and unprovoked,
but the outcome of a conversation. Others,
again, stated that Buff had certainly accom-
panied his act of violence with certain
choleric words. Bark McCabe’s lawyer
contented himself by asking Buff:
“Did Wallace say that McCabe was a
party to this swindle?”
When Buff replied, “ ’E said as ’ow Mc-
Cabe knoo nothin’ about it,” he sat down
satisfied that he had earned a good fee
by good service.
The magistrate asked the usual question
respecting the past of the accused, and the
reply of the police prosecutor astounded
Patsy. He had not had any idea that his
trainer had had such a distinguished youth.
“Five times assault, once assaulting the
police, _ ten times using insulting words,
eight times being found in a common gam-
ing house—two-up schools, your Worship.
But it’s only fair to the prisoner to say
that they’re very old convictions. He hasn’t
been before the court for ten years, and
on occasions he’s rendered valuable assist-
ance to the police.”
The magistrate smiled. “There’s been
gross perjury committed by one side or the
other—possibly by both sides. But there is
no doubt that an assault was committed.
Fined one shilling.”
“Costs, your Worship,” applied Wallace’s
lawyer.
“No,” replied the magistrate, firmly. “Call
the next case.”
The shilling fine was a glorious triumph
for Buff and a great advertisement for the
fight.
“We’ll give you fifty pounds to dong him
again, Mr. Cody,” offered De Vernay. “This
case convinces a sceptical public of the
inviolate purity of our pugs, the unsullied
innocence of the grand old sport and the
white flowers of blameless lives worn by
those who fit its devotees for their sacri-
ficial ceremonies.”
“That’s right,” assented Buff. “It served
the cow right.”
(To be continued next week.)
The Anaesthetic.
The scent of citrus fruit that too long lay
Upon a mouldy shelf and knows decay....
A quill-shaped flash of crimson, which soon
fades,
Or opals to a dozen misty shades....
And in the heart a hundred ugly fears
As loud, aggressive clocks tick at my ears
I’m drifting down a narrow, murky track.
On, ever 0n... .my thoughts alone turn back
To one who said he loved me does he
fret ?
Or, counting his own virtues, mine forget!
(The anaesthetist quickens at his task.
And lets the ether trickle on. the mask.)
No whiff of lemons overripe comes now.
Nor oranges too long picked from their
bough.
But jonquils wreathing round me —surely
meant
For one who lay indifferent to scent-
As, shrouded in a haze like grey georgette,
My body floats between twin walls of jet. ..
Down.... down.... down !
The ebon oddly streaks to golden brown,
Then saddens to its sombre tint again.
There is no pain.
But sickened nostrils never can know rest,
Because of cloying flow’rs heaped on my
breast.
As liquid are my useless feet and hands,
And round a tardy heart fast closing bands
Of something strangely cold resembling steel •
-No-iight else this slackened hody csn now
feel....
All gone my fears.
All gone the clocks that shrilled against mv
ears,
And in their place sheer melody so thin
I know not if ’tis voice or violin.
Lyrical tones as slender as a thread.
And ripply a,s a hair plucked from mv
head....
I, listening, know that these frail hands
must press
The gat* that leads td G0d....0r nothing-
N.S.W.
E. G. P.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
‘Another wet week-end,” groaned Sydney
racing people on Saturday morning. It has
been an uncommonly damp spring, and that
kind of weather is bad for sport, though excel-
lent for the grass and the crops. However,
the rain held off, and the A.J.C. had a cool,
though cloud)’, day for the opening of its
important meeting; had an increased
attendance, too, compared with the 1931
Epsom-Derby day, thanks in part to the
repeal of the 10 p.c. tax on successful
punters. McSliortodds had to pay 1 p.c. on
his turnover instead, and he was a very
soiw-looking person at the end of the pro-
ceedings, for the day went heavily against
him. He will get it all back with interest,
in his fashion. /
As was the case with Le Legion last
year, Babili was withdrawn from the Derby
and started in the Trial Stakes. But
whereas Le Legion won easily, Babili (7
to 4) could only run third to Greenoak
(12 to 1) and Wallace Mimi. On his dead-
heat with Peter Pan at Warwick Farm, he
should have done better, but lie had a hard
race in the Rosehill Guineas and perhaps
that knocked him out a bit—he is a light-
fleshed customer. Greenoak is a daughter of
Greenstead—Wenjoy, hailing from New-
castle.
This Page expected to see Peter Pan
favorite for the Derby, hut Gaine Carring-
ton wound up in that position—9 to 4 Gaine
Carrington, 3 to 1 Peter Pan, 6 to 1 Oro,
10 to 1 Ivuvera, and 14 to 33 to 1 the others,
seven of them. Maoriland’s hope does not
look a first-class horse nor did he gallop like
one, though the familiar excuse was forth-
coming afterwards—“got his tongue over
the bit.” On the other hand, Peter Pan,
though a bit leggy, shows quality, and so do
Oro and Kuvera, while Regal Son impresses
as the makings of a good handicap horse,
though he may require time. Bombastic and
Prince Pombal, a half-brother to Veilmond,
attended to the pacemaking, and the ring-
men had visions of a “skinner” when Prince
Pombal was out by himself, with half a
Bert: "New make of tennis ball.
WONDERFULLY BALANCED''
Giert:'Really; But does that make
much difference 7 "
Bert; "difference'? why youll be able
to play So per cent better'?
But what will my
OPPONENT BE OOlNq ? *
mile to go. But Pike had Peter Pan handy,
and coming into the straight the chestnut
swept past Prince Pombal with the race in
hand. Oro (last at one stage) put in a
good run, and got within a length of him;
but Pike had only to shake up his mount a
bit to make it a length and a half. Three
lengths away was Ivuvera; Victoria’s repre-
sentative, Ruacli, was fourth and then came
Regal Son and Eastern Chief. Gaine Car-
rington beat only Bombastic home.
Th'e track was by no means fast, and
Peter Pan did well to traverse the mile and
a half in 2 .24. In three starts as a three-
year-oLi lie Ims not been beaten; at two years
he had <>ue race and finished out of a place.
Owned by R. R. Dangar and trained by
Frank McGrath, he is a credit to his sire,
Pantheon, who. like Windbag, lias come to
the front with a bound. Peter Pan is in
the Caulfield Cup with 7st. 71b., and in the
Melbourne Clip with 7st. 61b., penalties in-
cluded : for a wonder he was left out of the
Victoria Derby. Good as he is, it is not
going to be easy for a youngster who has
had four races to win one of the Cups with
so many tough four-year-olds about.
Of the 17 Epsom runners Rogilla attracted
most attention beforehand. At Randwick on
Friday another horse had cannoned into him
and knocked him over. The vet. pronounced
him all right, except for the shaking; but
Darby Munro, his rider. avlio had been
picked up stunned and bleeding, could not
fulfil his Epsom engagement, and Cracknel!
was substituted. It probably made no differ-
ence. As usual, Rogilla was slow l to find his
legs, but lie was seventh at the home turn,
where Chatham—always well up—joined
Winooka in the lead, which that son of Wind-
bag bad held for five furlongs or so. Chat-
ham bad Winooka settled at the Leger, where
there were loud cries of “Rogilla!” the burly
chestnut having come up fast. ITe gained
appreciably over most of tin) last furlong,
but Chatham, on whom Pike rode a beauti-
ful race, had something in reserve. He was
half a length ahead at the finish and doing
a bit the better of the pair. Winooka was
third, two lengths away; Autopay, last year’s
winner, headed the others, who were a
strung-out lot. Denis Boy and Waugoola
ran good races, and so did Oratorian, Sir
Duuinald and Jacko —for a time.
The night before the race Chatham was
a 5-to-2 favorite, but fours could be got on
the course. Dividends on the 10s. totes were
£2 11s. 6d. and £1 4s. for a place. Rogilla’,s
divs., £1 195., was more noteworthy, con-
sidering that he was at 6 to 1 in the l’ing.
That was also Johnnie Jason’s price, Win-
ooka being at sevens. Nothing else was
asked for to any extent. By carrying Bst.
131 b., and clocking lmin. 37sec. on a track
with no fire in it, Chatham proved himself
a splendid miler, and Ammon Ra’s record
would not be nearly so bright if the stylish
son of Windbag—Myosotis had not gone
off last spring. Chatham is now trained by
Fred Williams; A. E. Blair lias owned him
since he was a yearling.
Nightmarch used to be as honest as the
day, but apparently he has grown tricky, as
aged stallions are apt to do. Anyhow, he
ran a very poor race in the Spring Stakes,
for which lie was a 7-to-4 favorite. They made
the pace so slow that Pike had not to ride
the sluggish Veilmond (2 to 1) hard to work,
him into a good position ; and the unusual
spectacle was witnessed of Veilmond leading
over the last five or six furlongs. Satmoth
finished on rvell to get second, two lengths
away, though no trouble to Veilmond (it
could not be expected, with only Sib. between
them, as against 231 b. in the Metrop.) ;
Nightmarch was three lengths behind him.
Cylinder and Peter Jackson did fairly well,
and St. Valorey, from Queensland, impressed
by his appearance and style of galloping.
Pike was greeted with shouts of “Make it
four, Jimmy!” as lie came out for the Ken-
sington Handicap on Burracootboo (7 to
2) . He did his. best to oblige, and gave an
admirable exhibition of how-to ride a wait-
ing race in front; but seven furlongs is
just too far for Burracootboo, and he was
cut out of it in the last few .strides by Birth-
day Present (9 to 2), owned by Dick Woot-
ton, and given to him by his son, Stanley.
By Vencedor —Sold Again, Birthday Present
is a half-brother to April the Fifth, winner
of this year’s Epsom Derby, and is a hand-
some black. Confab (10 to 1) flashed into
third place, and should be worth a tote
ticket next start. It was a great day for
Pike —perhaps the greatest in his career as a
jockey, which has lasted 27 years. He began
very young.
Frank McGrath had the pleasure of seeing
two horses from his stable —never stronger
than this year, although McGrath has been
training for something like 40 years—go out
first and second favorites for the Metropoli-
tan, and the greater pleasure of seeing one,
Denis Boy, add the rich A.J.C. Handicap to
his meritorious list of victories in this coun-
try, which includes the Caulfield Cup. Early
in the course betting, Denis Boy was at 7 to
2 and Satmotli at 6 to T; towards the close
it was fours the Irish-bred horse and fives
Satmotli. Rogilla was firm at sixes, but
Veilmond went to tens along with Salvador
and Pretzel. There were 16 runners. Mc-
Grath’s pair were always prominent, Sat-
motli being second (to Jcyporc and then
Salvador) most of the way, and Denis Boy
about sixth. Pretzel was another whose
colors were generally conspicuous, and
Rogilla was much nearer the front than he
got in the Epsom, except in the straight.
Knox, on Satmotli, apparently thought his
mount could come away as Sir Andrew did
in his year. He was wrong, for Satmotli,
after disposing of Salvador and getting to
the front when they turned for home, tired,
and Denis Boy and Rogilla settled down to
battle out tire finish. It was a stern one, but
Denis Boy stayed a bit better and beat the
Epsom runner-up by half a length. The
Queenslander Lough Neagh (25t01) worried
Satmotli out of third place, and then Historic
pipped hini for fourth. The time was -credit-
able—2min.44fsec. McCarten rode a capital
race on Denis Boy, whose victory was very un-
palatable to the bookmakers ; nor did backers
of Rogilla have anything with which to re-
proach the Neivcastle jockey Robinson.
For the remaining days at Randwick:—
Craven Plate: Chatham; next, Johnnie
Jason.
Suburban Handicap: .Tacko; next,
Waugoola.
Members’ Handicap: Regal Son; next,
Enamour.
Sydney Handicap: Peter Jackson; next,
Historic.
Waverley Handicap: St. Valorey; next,
Salvador.
Chester Handicap: Holdfast.
Randwick Plate: Veilmond.
Final Handicap : Birthdav Present.
* * #
Some of the results at Flemington last
Saturday were astounding. For instance
who could have imagined that Bronze Hawk!
thrice conqueror of Ivuvera in Sydney, would
have been unable to gain a place in the
October Stakes? When news came through
from Randwick that Ivuvera had finished
third in the A.J.C. Derby-—thereby rehabili-
rating 1 Ins reputation to some extent-—fol-
lowers of Bronze Hawk maintained that his
claims to support on Saturday were unassail-
able However. Jock Holt was so confident
of the fitness of Top Hole that the Heroic
colt went out favorite. C. B. Kellow owner
; of Top Hole, anticipated success at the
week-end, and accordingly backed him heavily
for the Caulfield Cup and in doubles on the
previous Monday. The displays given by both
Bronze Hawk and Top Hole were alarm-
ingly bad—-so bad, in fact, as to be almost
incomprehensible.
Horses from Sydney often find it diflicult
to accommodate themselves to the left-
handed direction of galloping in Melbourne.
This may have been a factor in the down-
fall of Bronze Hawk. He began smartly,
but, after covering a furlong or two of the
mile journey, dropped back into fourth place.
Frank Dempsey, the jockey, subsequently
stated that his mount was squeezed between
two horses for six furlongs and never had
a chance of showing his real pace. Dempsey
weighed out for Bronze Hawk in the absence
of Bartle, who will ride the Brazen geld-
ing in subsequent engagements. Duncan
was pessimistic concerning the manner in
which Top Hole acquitted himself. The colt,
he said, looked certain to come on and win
in the straight, but dropped the bit suddenly
and decisively. Bronze Hawk carried bare
weight-for-age. Top Hole claimed a 51b.
allowance. It remained for penalised candi-
dates—Viol d’Amour and Middle Watch—
to fight out the finish.
Middle Watch met with strong support in
the betting, but Viol d’Amour was allowed
to go out at 20 to 1, having had one of his
hind legs stripped while racing at Moonee
\ alley recently. When he narrowly van-
quished Waterline in the October Stakes of
1931, Viol d’Amour started at 20 to 1, and
lie was quoted at 12 to 1 when he beat
that gelding again in the A.J.C. All-aged
Stakes last Easter, Ammon Ra (5 to 2 on)
being unplaced. Ned O'Dwyer, his owner-
trainer, has dealt punters a number of body
blows with the son of Violiucello, and the
latest coup was perhaps the most remunera-
tive to the stable. Viol d’Amour took charge
when Median petered out at the home turn,
ami he stalled off a game challenge from
Middle Watch, who lost by half a neck,
which was the winning margin of Viol
d’Amour on two occasions against Waterline.
At a time when most of the other high-
class Victorian horses are giving contradic-
tory displays, Middle Watch is advancing
splendidly in his Melbourne Cup prepara-
tion. A mile is too short a distance for
Middle Watch now. He promises to shine
over long journeys at the carnival. The
black stallion’s deeds have filled J. S.
Feehan with pride. IT. Alan Currie, who, like
Feelian, is on the V.R.C. committee, had the
misfortune to see Median drop dead after
passing the post in the October Stakes,
heart failure being the cause of the catas-
trophe. Median, a three-year-old colt by
imported Equator, was one of the most
handsome thoroughbreds in training.
Unbacked by his connections, Streperus
captured the Ascot w.f.a. event on the Wednes-
day, and he emphasised the merit of that form
by running third to Lady Pam and Myles
Connell’s Magpie mare Silent Bird in the
V. Stand Handicap. A prominent Mel-
bourne barrister is part-owner of Streperus,
who has been heavily backed for the Caul-
field Cup. The Verbius colt, has a queer
temperament, and disgraced himself re-
cently at Geelong by finishing 100 yards be-
hind the winner of a race for which he
started favorite. Lady Pam is trained by
George Jones for the Maoriland sportsman
W. R. Kemball, whose juvenile colts Easy
Money and Metro ran first and second in
a division of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes.
It looks as if the drought has broken in
the case of George Jones.
James Scobie landed one of the events for
fillies with Lisburn for Agar Wynne, the
veteran Melbourne sportsman, who has been
bedridden for a long while past. Lisburn
(Blankney ll.—Trenody) is a sister to the •
1925 Oakleigh Plate winner, Adrift. Bill
Tindall annexed the other race for filFes with
Maiden Hair, by Manfred from Princess
Aura. She is a ready-made galloper and
showed the opposition no quarter over the
last two fui’longs. Dutchie. who belongs
to Mrs. L. R. Buxton, gave Duncan a win-
ning ride in the Edward Manifold Stakes,
and she will be hard to beat in the Oaks
next month.
* * *
The Caulfield Cup meeting opens on Satur-
day, clashing with the last day at Randwick.
Fancies :
Caulfield Stakes: Viol d’Amour: next,
Middle Watch.
Caulfield Guineas: Liberal; next. Bronze
Hawk.
Herbert Power Stakes: Dermid; next,
Shadow King.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Max Schmelling defeated America’s Micky
Walker on a technical knockout in New
York. Walker was a stone lighter than the
German, but at that was well above his usual
weight at 12s. 61b. Schmelling had the
better of it throughout, and in the closing
rounds gave hi.s lighter opponent such a
mauling that Walker’s manager skied the
towel to save him further punishment. No
title was involved.
At Leichhardt on Friday, Jack Carroll
(lOst. 71b.) and Alby Roberts (lOst. 611 b.)
furnished as savage a scrap as Sydney has
seen for years. Roberts, considered the
most reckless of present-day pugs, attacked
with the fury of a Fuzzy Wuzzy. Carroll
was equally willing; instead of boxing
cleverly on the defensive,, as lie usually does,
his straight lefts made nearly all the abo.'s
blows hit holes in the atmosphere. The
white warrior landed many lusty punches in
close, and, although Roberts fought him
tooth and nail the whole way, Carroll was
the winner of practically every round.
sic si: #
Lurich and Penchiff (13st. 131 b.) made
their “showmanship” too obvious at Leich-
hardt on .Saturday, and were often counted
out. Half-way through the fourth round
Lurich threw the Bulgar out of the ring.
Penchiff went to sleep, and was still slum-
bering when the call came for the next in-
fliction.
Footbrawl
Melbourne wound up its League season on
Saturday in a blaze of glory. Weather was
ideal, crowd a record and game fast, grim and
exciting. The Tigers’ surer marking, better
pace and more accurate passing gained them
a 9-point lead at the end —Richmond 13 goals
14 behinds (92 points) ; Carlton 12 goals
11 behinds (83 points). The crushing crowd
kept ambulance men busy, no fewer than 17
persons being stretebered away through hys-
teria. fainting and similar weaknesses. Rich-
mond's stars were Allan Geddes, Doug
Strang, Hunter and Murdoch; Carlton's.
Iluxtable, Martyn, Vallence and Crisp. This
is Richmond’s third League premiership, the
last having happened in ’2l, though it has
been second four times in the last five years.
Attendance was 69,724 and receipts £3633
4s. Bd. The four second-round games
yielded £11,699 ss. Id., from 230,706
spectators. Total attendances at League
games this season were 1,859,000; gates,
£47,620; as against 1,762,100 and £45,871
for ’3l and 1,830,300 and £46,143 for ’3O.
So the League has nothing to weep over.
The N.S.W. Rugby League staged a game
at Sydney Sports Ground between the metro-
politan premiers, South Sydney, and a team
made up of players from the various coun-
try clubs known as Group 9. The country-
men led 16-2 at half-time, but a great rally
by the premiers, coupled with dogged deter-
mination, lauded them home winners by
19-16. Wearing won for liis side with two
determined tries plus a couple of penalty
.goals.
The long-looked-for Australian Rugby
Union team which is to invade South Africa
next season contains few surprises, though
the omission of the veteran Tom Lawton
has caused some heart-burning. There is
yet a chance of his making the trip as eoacli-
manager. in which department he would
be invaluable. Twenty-nine players have
been chosen. N.S.W. supplies 15, Queens-
land 11 and Victoria 3. Names and posi-
tions :—•
Fullbacks, A. W. Ross (N.SAV.), F. MePhillips
(N.S.W.) ; three-quarters, M, Grace (N.S.W.), 0.
McLean (Q.), J. Kelaker (N.S.W.), W. Warlow
(Q-), J. Steggall (Q.), D. Cowper (V.), G. S.
Sturtridge (V.), .J. Young (N.S.W.) ; five-eighths,
R. Biihnan (N.S.W.), 0. Campbell (N.S.W.) ; half-
backs, S. J. Malcolm (N.S.W.), G. Bennett (Q.);
forwards, 0. Bridle (V.), J. Clarke (Q.), R. B.
Loudon (N.S.W.), W. Mackney (N.S.W.), M. White
(Q.), A. Hodgson (N.S.W.), G. Cooke (Q.), W.
G. White (Q.), G. V. Bland (N.S.W.), W. Cerutti
(N.S.W.), D. Love (N.S.W.), J. Ritter (Q.), B.
Doneley (Q.), E. Bonis (Q.), M. F. Morton (N.S.W.).
A. W. Ross will be captain and S. J. ‘513100101
vice-captain.
The inclusion of the Queensland wing three-
quarter, Warlow, is the big surprise. War-
low is little known in the south, but in
Queensland, where he has had plenty of
experience in big League and Union foot-
ball, he is considered in a class by himself,
especially on the defensive. He played a
great game against the All Blacks for Bris-
bane. A notable rise is that of Young, last
season a junior player and this year only
regarded as a reserve by the State authori-
ties. The team is young, powerful and fast.
Man for man on paper it looks a better
side than the Waratahs. though there is,
perhaps, no Lawton or Wallace.
“Poppett”: I fancy that “Shell” errs when
he says (B. 3/8/’32) that the race for the
world’s professional sculling championship
in California was the first of the long series
ever to be rowed round a turn instead of on
a straight-out course. In 1901 George
Towns, of Sydney, beat the Canadian sculler
Gaudaur on Lake of the Woods, Canada,
over a mile and a half course with a turn
and return. Gaudaur then held the title,
having beaten Jim Stanbury on the Thames
five years previously.


SMOKERS!
INSIST UPON
AUSTRALIAN MADE
LE NIL
SUPER QUALITY
CIGARETTE PAPERS
CHEAPER AND BETTER
THAN BEST IMPORTEO
&
Dependable /
■Craig & Aitken
■Wholesale Distributor*
U .Sijdneq N-5.W.
Missing Friends.
DYAN, ALICE, daughter of Michael Ryan
and Bridget Blake, who would now be
about 61 years of age, who left her home at
Koriot 36 years ago, or her children will
hear something to her or their advantage if
they communicate with National Trustees
Company, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
YOU’LL STOP , ANYWAY , £l/7 /FS SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO .
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
fsd
Representative:
ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
Mr Cant
Mr Can
f, \
»
If.
*
When Mr Can’t got up this
morning he wasn’t feeling
too well. ‘Not enough exer-
cise’ he told himself (as usual).
But when he does take exer-
cise —he doesn’t really like it!
And how puffed he gets ! The
real trouble with Mr Can’t
is that his whole system is
poisoned—by congested food-
ways. And not even exercise
will keep you fit if you don’t
keep clean inside !
Whack —slam —bang! How
—on the other hand that
Mr Can does go it! Mind
you, he’s not quite Davis Cup
—but he does enjoy himselt.
The man is fit, of course
fit as only a man can be when
he’s clean inside. First thing
every morning Mr Can takes
hisEno. Result —clean blood,
clear eye, and a light and
springy step. No poisons in
Mr Can! And what about
you ?
A sparkling glass of Eno every morning makes all the
difference between half-health and health ♦ Cleansing
and clearing your foodways of yesterday’s waste Eno
keeps your bloodstream free from poisons and relieves
the cause of heaviness, headaches, depression .. ♦ Take
Eno regularly—first thing every morning •
Au.lB
Enos Fruit Salt’
‘Tsrhe words €>no and rc< Salt” are registered trade marks
Sales Agents: £British VKarold < &. ff&tcbie Go. £td., Sydney, £7V.S. C W
Ins and Outs
“Amateur Pro.”: The Board of Control-
Bradman battle has settled down for the
time being to trench warfare. Bradman
will doubtless apply for permission to write
for the papers. The board will stick to
its rules. Then the Australian batsman will
have to choose between dropping his news-
paper activities for the time being or stay-
ing outside big cricket.
° j|. * * *
“Aigburth” : There is a chance of seeing
Maurice Tate in action in Australia after
all. He has apparently recovered from his
breakdown, and after he has been officially
vetted the Marylebone Club will, on October
10, decide whether or not he is to chase his
mates out to Australia. Few Englishmen
have been better liked on this side, and he
is sure to receive a warm welcome if he does
come, his danger as a bowler to Australia’s
chances notwithstanding.
* ❖
“Verneuker” : It is reported that Fleetwood-
Smitli, who was invited by Westralia to
play with a combined team against England
at Perth on Oct. 27, has declined the invita-
tion. As he is just back from a long absence
with Mailey’s team, he naturally desires
a spell. But the interpretation put on his atti-
tude by various Australian sporting writers
is very far from the true spirit of cricket
as it was a few years ago. The young man
is extolled for his cunning in concealing his
tricks from the pnemy until the last moment,
and one journal actually suggests that he be
kept in smoke until the first Test and then
suddenly hurled upon the English invaders.
❖ i'.< *
“Culex” : Of the many specimens of pro-
paganda heralding the coming of the Eng-
lish cricketers about the weirdest is that
every man carries in his bag a bottle of
special lotion to counteract the ravages of
the ferocious Australian mosquitoes, it being
stated that some of the previous teams had
been tortured by the winged pest. The
only case the writer can recall was when
A. E. R. Gilligan was stung on the pro-
boscis by some insect in Toowoomba. The
Darling Downs town prides itself on the
fact that it is the only mosquito-free dorp
in the country, and there was nearly a riot
when the sting was attributed to a Too-
woomba mosquito. The Town Council and
the local press strained every nerve to prove
that the offending biter must have been
brought from Brisbane in the team’s lug-
gage. The matter was so important that a
Bulletin poetaster was permitted to cele-
brate it with an effusion entitled “The Bal-
lad of the Biting of Gilligan.”
* * * *
“Haymaker”: N.S.W. cricket heads are
talking of altering the old “two blues” State
blazer to one of three colors, which will
enable it to be copyrighted. It is part of
a general move in the direction of brighter
apparel for our cricketers, and most of the
clubs have already adopted the idea. It
might be pushed still further. The first book
on cricket that was put into the writer’s
hands showed a be whiskered gentleman on
the cover in tight white flannels, brown and
white shoes and a cap and shirt of red and
black stripes. In W. G. Grace’s reminis-
cences is a photo of two famous old-time
bowlers, Carpenter and Hayward. These,
in addition to the usual flannels, wear white
shirts with large red spots on them, and a
peculiar variety of low-crowned, flat-brimmed
“bowler” hat of the type still affected by
Lancashire millhands. Query: Did the term
“bowler” fasten itself to this type of hat
because of its then popularity in cricket?
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis heads have released some particulars
of the financial side of the tour arranged for
the Americans. Honolulu is throwing 750
dollars into the hat, while Maoriland will pay
25 p.c. of the gate receipts in the Dominion.
The N.S.W. and Victorian associations will
be charged 15 p.c. of the gross for State
tourneys. Each State will be allowed £25
for entertaining the visitors, which, since
these are, of course, all prohibitionists,
should be ample. In Test and State matches
the State running the show will pouch 20
p.c. of the gross unless the cost of
accommodation is borne by the Australian
body, in which case the State rake-off will
be cut to 15 p.c.
“Hotham”: Crawford is keen on teams
being sent abroad more frequently and chal-
lenging in the European zone, where they
would have a better chance of getting shaken
down against some of the weaker sides. The
folly of sending the last lot to the U.S.A., to
be at once pitted against the moral world’s
champions, is stressed by the returned trav-
eller, though it was evident enough in Aus-
tralia before the team departed. In Craw-
ford’s opinion only rare luck saved France
in the Davis Cup final, for to his mind the
Americans would have defeated France nine
out of ten times..
* * * *
“Milton”: That tip that Moon and Cum-
mings, of Queensland, would be picked for
the Australian team for the first Test match
with the visiting Americans at Brisbane (B.
3/9/’32) looks a good bet. The Queens-
land heads have been asked by the Austra-
lian tennis authorities if the State would
want a State match against the Americans
as well as the Test, provided both Moon and
Cummings were included in the Australian
team.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Football has dropped behind
i Uettington, and the kingdom of first-
class cricket will probably be closed to him.
" ut J lO has bad a wonderful season at golf,
and he put the crown on it the other day by
winning the Australian club championship at
ivensington. If he can stay the course, Bet-
tington may prove a dangerous rival to Ivo
Whitton.
* * * $
„ H uon ” : tough proposition on any
golf course, Len Nettlefold is invincible in
iasmama. Last week the famous left-
hander won the Tassy open championship on
the Royal Hobart’s course at Rosny with
a card °f 32 for 36 holes. On the same
he also won the State amateur title,
t le third time he has bagged the double,
one feature of the open was that J. Robert-
son, Australian professional champion m
1930, tied for third place with his two sons,
W. B. and Alec.^
“Carnoustie”: A correspondent inquires
how the rules of golf apply to a happening
in Queensland. A player took a niblick to his
ball, half-buried in heavy mud. Looking up
after the shot to watch the flight of the ball,
he found there was no flight. Further inves-
tigation showed that the ball was embedded in
half a pound of mud adhering to the head of
the club. There was a great deal of argu-
ment about the thing. Rule 17, which deals
with a ball lodged in anything moving—and
a swinging clubhead is surely that —permits
the dropping of another ball without penalty.
Rule 22 provides that a player may replace
a ball deemed to be unplayable at the cost
of a penalty stroke. If the stroke was played
from the tee, then the new ball may be tee’d
—•otherwise dropped. Both rules seem to
apply! Inquirers are invited to look up
“Recommendations for Local Rules” dealing
with such conditions, such as “the existence
of mud which may be held to interfere with
the proper playing of the game.”
;J: $ $ ?Ji
“Hoylake”: Harry Cotton has won the
“News of the World” tourney at Moor Park,
beating his fellow-Briton George Perry.
The Bi’itons had an open go, for there were
no American competitors. Cotton is said
to have shown form which would have beaten
any other golfer in the world. He was six
up' at the end of the first round, done in
65, 11 better than the course bogey. In the
second round he was equally consistent,
doing most of the holes under or on par.
This is world’s champion form. But
neither amateur nor professional British
golfers can show anything approaching it
when opposed to American opponents in
international tourneys.
* * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian A.I.F. Cup
contest at the Eastern club’s _ course
drew the usual huge entry, the opening pair,
Ivo Whitton and C. M. Connors, driving off
at 6.30 a.m. The ultimate winner turned
up in J. Rowan, who, with a handicap of 18,
returned a net card of 69. The best scratch
score was a 74 by professional Hugh Thom-
son. Ivo Whitton was close on his heels
with a 75. There was a nine-hole competition
for limbless soldiers. Eighteen took part
with special handicaps, and the scoring was
very close. 11. Wilson, with a 49, was the
winner.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: An ingenious motor-car has
been constructed by a N.S.W. 20-year-old
mechanic named Livermore. He built it out
of handy scraps in 14 months, and has
christened it the “Bitza.” The only part of
it not home-made is the 6-h.p. motor-cycle
engine, which is mounted over the front
wheels on a hardwood chassis and transmits
the power through a chain drive to the
motor-cycle wheels. The body is of tinned
steel. The builder claims it can top 50
m.p.h., and do 60 miles to the gallon.
$ * * *
“Formula” : There is a feeling among many
Australian motorists that the time has come
to attempt a revival of the motor contests
on track and road which were such a fea-
ture of the years immediately following
the war. Such events as the 1000-mile
Alpine trials in Victoria and the Sydney
to Brisbane reliability run drew big fields
and attracted great attention from the
general public. Nowadays it seems difficult
to .get more than half a dozen entries for
short-distance local reliability and general
trials. Much was made some time ago of
a proposed rally on Melbourne at Cup time.
Though influential folk interested themselves,
the general response was slack and the pro-
ject has been indefinitely pigeon-holed.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Autocycle Union
of Australia is suggesting to the other
State bodies that a teams’ race should be
run in conjunction with, the Australian
Tourist Trophy race for motor-cycles on
Phillip Island (Vic.) in January, the Aus-
tralian Cyclists’ Union supplying the cash
for the trophies. Queensland has been cher-
ishing the hope that the T.T. event would
this year be allotted to her, but hope has
been abandoned. However, a local Grand
Prix race will be held at Kingston early in
January, and the winner will represent
Bananaland in the big Victorian stunt. This
event will be the first “G.P.” ever held in
Queensland.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Undoubtedly this is an age
when youth is rapidly losing its respect for
the aged. This was impressed on me the
other day wdien watching the final session in
Sydney of the billiards match between Fred
Lindrum and his nephew Horace. In a
spirit of bravado, perhaps, Fred gave the
kid 2000 points’ start in their fortnight’s
match. It seemed to me that, though he
won by points, the nephew gave his re-
vered relative a clear run on the rails in
the closing stages. All the same, I am con-
strained to reflect that, as Herbert Spencer
once said of a man who beat him at bil-
liards, Horace’s proficiency points to a mis-
spent youth.
* =» # $
“Green Chequer”: The old trouble about
faking homer-pigeon timing-clocks has
cropped up again, this time in N.S.W. When
a flight is to come off each competitor is pro-
vided with a numbered rubber ring which goes
on to the leg of every bird he is flying. He
already lias a special clock, which, after it
is sealed and set to the starting time of the
race by the heads, is taken home by him.
When liis bird arrives at the loft he gets
possession of the numbered ring as quick as
he can and stuffs it into a slot in the clock,
which stops automatically, thus recording
the time of the bird’s arrival. Time and
again this apparently foolproof system has
been beaten by the shrewdies. The faking
happens during the period after the sealed
clock has left official hands. How to pre-
vent the crook owner from tampering with
the timepieces is one of the problems facing
homer fanciers.
* * * *
“Trudgeon”: Now that it seems fairly
certain that neither the Japanese swimmers
nor the American Clarence Crabbe will be
able to visit Australia this season, an
attempt is being made to secure Taris. Though
lie was not a success at the last Olympiad,
Taris holds four world’s swimming records
from 300 to 1000 metres. The first French-
man to get among the swimming champions,
Taris has a style all his own, and this in
itself should interest the Australian swim-
ming community. Crabbe’s inability to
come over is due to his having accepted a
movie contract to make swimming films.
* * * *
“Shell”: Winter rowing in Sydney fin-
ished the other day with the annual handi-
cap event for the Merrington trophies. The
outstanding feature of the race was the
easy win of H. Turner, of Haberfield, who,
rowing from scratch, gave some of his com-
petitors as much as 70sec. start. Turner,
a mug sculler last season, is_ this year the
State and Australian champion. Big and
powerful, with the makings of a fine style,
he may rival Pearce. Turner’s early success,
tqken in conjunction with bike-rider Dick
Arnst’s sudden rise to the professional world’s
championship sculling class after he had
fallen out of his shell about 20 times in
his first 15 attempts to sit in it, leads one
to wonder, under the lap, whether this scull-
ing business is the sealed mystery it is sup-
posed to be.
* * * *
“Stump”: Percy Finney, stroke of the
Wide Bay crew which annexed the Burnett
River Championship Fours at the Bunda-
berg Rowing Club’s annual regatta (B.
24/9/’32), is blind. Some years ago,
while wallaby shooting in the Maryborough
district, he was accidentally shot in the face
by a companion and lost the sight of both
eyes.


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUTUMN CROCUS.
Patents.
AUTOMATIC MEANS FOR REGULAT-
ING FEED WATER FLOW TO A TEM-
PERATURE IN STEAM GENERATORS
OF THE TUBULAR FLASH TYPE.
'TTIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent.
A No. 13385/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
DURING the past 40 years the “visible life
of Broken Hill” (estimated on the known
ore reserves) has gradually increased from five
years to twenty years. On this scale, in an-
other 40 years the “visible life of Broken Hill”
will be 80 years after that. The longer this
great field is worked the more ore reserves
arc exposed; and thus the “estimated life”
grows more and more.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
that famous Broken Hill daily newspaper, will
be 100 years old long before the lode is
worked out.
For
SPEED, ECONOMY,
ACCURACY
Send Your Overseas Telegraphic
Messages
Via
"Beam Wireless”
The fastest long-distance telegraph
service in the world.
To Great Britain, the Continent of
Europe, Canada, U.S.A., Central and
South America, etc.
Telephone 8W2211 (Sydney) or F 4161
(Melbourne), and a Beam Messenger will collect
your message within the city area, or you can
hand it in at any Post Office.
Amalgamated Wireless
(A’sia) Ltd.
SYDNEY:
47 York Street (opp. Wynyard
Street).
BRANCH OFFICES:
59 Liverpool Street.
Pitt and Bridge Streets.
MELBOURNE:
167/9 Queen Street.
360 Collins Street.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
After seeing the big hats at Randwick
this Letter has decided it is going to like
them; even the grey skies on Saturday could
not obscure their charm. Of course, there
were not so many of them, and rarity, per-
haps, added to their attraction; but, by and
large, it does seem better to look all-hat
rather than all-face, which the turbans and
upturned sailors and flat pancake things do
to the best of us. The opening of the Spring
Meeting owed nothing to the weather. It
was too hot for fur coats (yes, even a brand-
new 600-guinea mink coat of this writer’s
acquaintance was left at home to play bil-
liards with the moth balls), and the sky was
too rain-full for the chiffons and muslins of
our planning; so woman became a compro-
mise, and everybody knows how unsatisfac-
tory that is. Diagonal stripes proved that
they can be overdone, though Mrs. W. E.
P. Saunders, with the Government’ House
group, who was all striped in brown and
gold, was an exception; colored shoes looked
tawdry, and when the cold wind whistled
through them a few ruffled white and pink
organdie dresses suggested water-lilies blown
out to sea, instead of the same smooth flower
on a sunlit lagoon.
The Governor, aided by Commander Gif-
ford, had quite a party, Chief Justice Street
and his lady and the Mayoral Walders being
among those hidden to lunch. The Mayor-
ess _ had epaulette sleeves in her black and
white frock, and her small black sailor was
banded in white. “Giff’s” mother, Mrs. G.
H. Rayner, was in the vice-regal reserve,
with Miss Crowdy and Mrs. Colin Stephen
and the Harry Budges. Brown seemed the
color fancy among these ladies; but Mrs.
John McKelvey was slim and smart in her
usual black and white; black and white was
the combination in Sheila Lowe’s corselette
frock: Mrs. Reggie Stafford’s suit was black
flecked with white worn with silver fox of
impeccable lineage. Mrs. Tony Hordern
was among the gazed-upon in her skyline-
blue frock with its powder-blue frills at
neck and wrist; Mrs. Jimmy Dickson
sported one of the smallest pill-box hats and
looked smart in it; Miss Ella O’Shea wore
a short furcoat above her brown frock.
Campbell Jones talked with Ezra Norton;
Carrie Moore (who was) looked trig and
alert; Mrs. Herbert Kendall took doubles,
but didn’t always pick them ; Hugh Denison
arrived with his lady; Nan Garvan and Mrs.
Ernest Brookes won a second glance; Kelso
King looked at once gentle and wise; Eileen
Sliettle’s hat was wide of brim, as was Mar-
garet Hagon’s. Janet and Barbara Knox
Were in black and white, and Betty Watt
brought color and beauty into the stand
with her Robin Flood green and an old-
gold hat.
Lots of old-timers turned up at Prince
Alfred’s jubilee ball, and that was exactly
the committee’s idea. They had wanted the
jollo to be a reunion of nurses and doctor*
trained in the Camperdown hospital since
its beginnings. Honored among these were
Miss Sanders, one of the first nurses to be
trained at P.A., and Miss Alice Ryric, from
Goulburn; and Dr. Scott Skirving, Dr. E.
Jenkins, Dr. Foreman, Mrs. Andrew David-
son and Professor Mills were others who
joined in the “Do You Remember?” chorus.
Linking the past of the hospital with the
present, the Cecil Pursers (he is now chair-
man of the board, and was one of the first
honoraries) brought a great party in honor
of their son Cecil’s wedding at All Saints’,
Woollahra. that very evening to Lorna Greer,
a fully-fledged trainee of P.A.
Other star turns of the night were a
pageant, “Fifty Years Ago,” in which doc-
tors and nurses in costumes of that period
were the chief actors, and a cake-cutting.
The cake was made by the P.A. chef, was
lit with 50 candles and was circulated among
the dancers by Kathleen and Sylvia Lidwill,
grand-daughters of Philip Sydney Jones,
who was a member of the first committee
and one of the first physicians of the hos-
pital. Matron Boissier cut the pyramid, and
with great impartiality a piece was given
to each of the 600 guests. Among them
were the Chief Justice and his lady, the
Mayoral Walders and former C.-J. William
Cullen and daughter Ailsa.
Sydney rose like a plump trout to the fly
of publicity, and everybody in the swim took
in “Grand Hotel” as a preliminary to Race
Week. St. James’s was an aching glare of
arc lights; one end of the entrance was
turned into a booking-desk, where you signed
the guest book, and here, feverishly clamor-
ing for more and still more programmes,
Mrs. A. G. Godhard and Mrs. Robert
Walder acted as super-booking clerks, the
one in white satin, the other in powder blue.
Not far off Mr. Godhard stood ready at a
crook of the finger from his better half to
plunge forward with further supplies of pro-
grammes. Ben Fuller spoke over the air,
cars rushed up, emptied their cargo and
slipped into the shadows. The footpaths were
lined with the curious anxious to see their
neighbors important enough to he deadheads,
or lavish enough to pay gala-night prices to
see a film which is bound to run for months.
Ben Fuller’s lady and Mrs. John Fuller found
posies waiting for them; the former wore
white and silver, and Mrs. John’s frock had
amethystine flowers embossed on its silver
lame. Phyllis Fuller’s slim prettiness
emerged from shell-pink chiffons, and Kath-
leen Cobcroft’s ermine-coated white chiffons
made almost as regal an entry as Mrs.
Spencer Brunton’s black and silver. Mrs.
Jimmy Dickson was a tall good-looker, and
an attractive group of girls, among them
Isabel Horsburgh and Wendy Palmer, sold
programmes for the B.N.A. fete at Govern-
ment House.
Many of the people at “Grand Hotel” went
on to Romano’s, where the Australian Motor
Yacht Squadron’s dance in aid of its stall
at the B.N.A. fete was raging. Here the
“Grand Hotel” register was auctioned and
bought in by John Fuller for 16 guineas.
The Commodore Robert Walder couple
entertained a great party, in which were the
Lud Mayor and his lady and that popular
brother and sister from Brisbane, Pat and
Ella O’Shea. An excitement of the night
was the announcement of Joan Fuller’s
engagement. Joan is a daughter of Ben. and
her betrothed is Alfred Rainbow, of Bellevue
Hill.
“Hold My Hand,” which opened at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday, is a dream of fair
clothes. Madge Elliott's gold head and slim
body looked everything a musical-comedy
heroine’s should, from the moment she
stepped into the whirl of fun —if such a
word as stepped can be used about such
thistledown. The striking part of her burnt-
sienna outfit was the double-breasted coat
with its epaulette shoulders. A small, tight-
fitting brown hat, wliite-and-brown shoes
and a flatly-tailored white satin frock with
a brown belt were other highlights. In
quick succession came other dazzling rai-
ment. First a frock of green tulle, all airy-
fairy, its color the shimmery green that
comes over'the oak-trees in early September.
It fitted tight, to the figure as far as the
waist, after the uplift-bust manner of our
old friend the princess robe; then the skirt
floated out a froth of pleated, vandyked frills.
Three frills, such as Columbine might wear,
outlined the neck of the dress, and these
twinkled with brilliant spots of light, as
though the dewdrops had thought them a
nice friendly cobweb.
An expert told this Letter that all the
dresses in the show were cut on the cross
and all shaped princess as to bodice and
with the fulness coming from the hips. The
pink organdie (it was like a pale pome-
granate) in which Madge wont to the inevit-
able garden party had all these points, and
in addition a tight-fitting bust-length bolero.
(We’ve come over all feminine, in contrast
to our post-war sisters.) This had huge
puff sleeves, was appliqued with white coin-
spots, and was fastened in front with three
white gardenias. Then came what .looked
like a field of primroses, leaves and all,
woven into a dress of palest yellow macrame
lace and green taffetas. Lastly, as a reward
for having so many clothes, Madge wore her
wedding frock of pearl-tinted satin with a
stiffened round collar like a berthe bristling
with pearls and diamente and rhinestones,
the gauntlet cuffs likewise gaudy.
There are three brides in this story, one
blue, one gold, and (of course) Madge in
white; and there are 18 bridesmaids in the
crispest of white, love-in-a-mist blue, and
daffodil organdie, very frilly as to shoulder
and liem, and with contrasting ribands of
water green, blush pink and parma violet.
And in the midst of the souffles of tulle and
organdie can the white pique costumes, six
of them, at the garden party be forgotten?
Cut on the lines of the gay ’nineties, their
ankle-length skirts were very flared, their
little bolero coats finished in a waistband,
and their shoulders enlarged with three
frilled epaulette sleeves.
It has never been the Pankliurst way to
remain with still hands and silent tongue
when there was a wrong to be righted ; and
Mrs. Tom Walsh (she was Adela Pankhurst)
is no exception to the family rule. At
present she is
doing her bit
to scotch Com-
mu n ism, be-
cause she
believes that
Communism is
a wrong 'to
w o m a n hood.
With th is in
her mind this
t. r a n spl anted
slip of the
North of Eng-
land founded
the Australian
Women’s Guild
of Empire, and
argues wisely
and well
through i t s
little paper, of
which she is
editor-in-chief,
business man-
ager and most of the staff. Mrs. Walsh is
a good manager, for when she started her
paper she had no capital, but before each
edition she ran a jumble sale at Paddy’s
Markets, and always cleared enough to bring
her paper out, free of debt. Now the jumble
sales aren’t necessary. One of the pluckiest
things the little lady does is to preach her
gospel daily at lunch-time to working men.
She speaks to them in the ’Loo, on the
wharves, at Surry Hills, anywhere; and her
quick wit and logic make her popular with
even the Reddest youth in her audiences.
This Letter went to a party the other
night where caraway bread, Hungarian
cheese, real Tokay and a Hungarian sweet
(mince in shortbread) were featured on the
supper table. It was a farewell party to
violinist Szigeti by the Hungarian colony,
and Giro’s in King-street was crowded by
these people, made friends of all the world
by “The Blue Danube,” the waltz that in
other generations was responsible, so they
say, for a record crop of marriages. The
wife _of Kilpatrick, M.L.A., was hostess.
She is Hungarian, and had a cream evening
frock whose caped coat was fashioned in
the manner of that worn by the Hungarian
nobility. Some of the guests were amazingly
blonde, with childish blue eyes and a gay
expression; others had raven black hair,
clear brunette complexions and an intense
gaze. But all were vivacious in the manner
that is impossible to your thoroughly Brit-
ish. Szigeti sat, a little fragile, a little
weary, but intensely happy, his eyes light-
ing up when some of the speech niters broke
from English into his native tongue the
sounds of which seem to be a succession of
upward curves. Heather Ivinnaird sang, her
rich contralto notes lingering on the air
like half-forgotten sorrows, and Lucille
Bruntnell gave some of her inimitable Chris-
topher Robin Milne repertoire.
Hugo Larsen, who brought the star to
Australia, concert-manager Jack Griffiths,
Prince Magaloff, Benjamin Fuller and his
lady, John Fuller and Phyllis Fuller and
Mrs. Zorina were among those who repre-
sented the world of the theatre. Francis
Jackson’s daughter came with Dr. and Mrs.
Harden; and there were two tables full of
delightful people whom this Letter would
gladly mention if it knew how to spell their
names. Japan’s new consul was one of
the happiest guests, and he made a speech,
too, his English every now and then having
an Oxford ring—not surprising since he
spent a year there. Then there was jazz,
and last of all there was something dashing
that sounded like a national song accom-
panied by a quick staccato of steps by two
or three of the company.
Norman Lindsay has been busy making
ready his show, the first for years, and on
the 19th the Macleod Galleries will be
filled with color. Against backgrounds that
suggest peacock waters and shafts of yellow
sunshine, in a world washed new with rain,
are all the passions and emotions, clothed
with soft flesh modelled on the delicate or
sinister lines of which the artist from Spring-
wood is a master. Norman Lindsay’s ladies
(1932 model) are exquisite, wafer-like
creatures, and whether in the flesh or in the
crinolines and rich brocades of other days
seem as though a puff might send them float-
ing out of the canvas and up to the moon.
How clear are the flower designs on the bro-
cades and how the rosy garlands on the
skirts of the ingenue of 1830 stand out!
With a lavish hand he has dipped into the
storehouse of the past and enriched his in-
teriors with leather work, with statue, with
lustre and jewelled ornament.
In New York, Norman Lindsay told this
Letter, the bureaus have a book in which the
descriptions of models of all ages and types
—from old age to childhood —are printed
opposite a number; so when the artist wants
a model lie just rings up the bureau and
asks for No. 1009 or No. 8270 to be sent
along. But what he wants to talk about
all the time is not art but publishing; and
when the Otranto brings P. R. Stephen,sen
to our shores the two of them will roll up
their sleeves for the job of producing not
only the books of the Australian writer, but
also those of oversea writers for this market.
P. R. Stcpliensen is a brilliant Queenslander,
a Rhodes scholar, who since leaving Oxford
has been in the publishing business in Eng-
land.
In Leslie Haylen’s “Two Minutes’ Silence,”
just completed by the McDonagh sisters, one
of the best
pieces of char-
acterisation is
that of Mrs.
Trott, the
char w oman.
This is played
by Mrs. Gab-
riel, the only
amateur in the
cast, and a
great friend of
t. h e author.
Mrs. Gabriel
acted this
part in the
stage produc-
tion, and her
clever work
so impressed
Phyllis Me-
Donagh that
she persuaded
her to act in
the film ver-
sion. Appropriately, Armistice Day will see
tlie first release of this vivid war drama.
Photo, from Early-Brown Studio.
Up a steep stair in the middle of the
Queen Victoria Markets perches the Sydney
Art School, and here veteran Julian Ashton
has put in a life’s work training the young
artist, enriching his country by a Lambert
and a Gruner, and much budding greatness.
Last week the school held its students’ show
and the walls, of the long studio were covered
with oils and water-colors, pencil drawings
and black-and-white studies. Every class of
work was represented : reflective or glimmer-
ing landscape, still-life, figure compositions
and portraits. There were 2(37 exhibits, and
some of the youngsters with great timidity
had priced their efforts at a half and a third
of a guinea—not much more than the price
of a bottle of the wine whose not unpleasant
acrid smell rises from the cellars beneath
the markets and seeps through the studio so
high above.
By 3 o’clock, when Mrs. John D. Moore
opened the show of tapestries, one of the
sallies in the cause of the War of the Roses
to aid the Industrial Blind, there was quite
a concourse of the well-dressed flattening
their noses against the glass cases, peering
into the more decorative designs, and some
even showing superiority if (say) an Anne
chair were fitted with a Georgian seat. Syd-
ney is full of unexpected treasures, only dis-
covered when an occasion like the present
lures them from their fastnesses. In this dis-
play the Gobelin tapestry owned by the
Uni. nearly made an appearance, but its
size kept it out; however, another very
venerable tapestry from the halls of learn-
ing is on view. A large painted Gothic
panel in the Mille Fleur design is one of the
striking exhibits. Other treasures were two
exquisite twelfth-century Sacred Hearts
thickly embroidered about with bird and
flower, book and cross; a Genoese altar-
cloth lent by Professor Waterhouse; two
cushions lent by Miss Anne Walker, the
work of Mrs. John Blaxland, of Newington,
in Kent, and Parramatta, and a bannerette
screen suspected of being the work of Queen
Alexandra’s hands —at any rate, given by her
to a favorite lady-in-waiting. This Letter
liked, too, the map of England embroidered
with true-love knots in faintest blue silks
worked by Mary Susannah Wright in the
year 1788, Mary Susannah then being eight
years old. An interior of York Minster by
G. Stamp Taylor, husband of the lady who
organised the exhibition, is one of the most
interesting on view.
Sydney lias still another lunching club.
It is the Quota —a sort of female counter-
part of the Rotary. Already the profes-
sional and artistic women of the city are
well represented among its members, though
at the weekly lunch sister has thus far
turned a meek ear to the words of male
bigwigs, such as knight Henry Braddon.
Mrs. Edith Glanville is president.
Queensland’s quillful:—
At Bishopbourne the Girls’. Friendly. Society cele-
brated its Jubilee preliminary! There were 300
guests. Archbishop Sharp, with Mrs. Gunibrae
Stewart, received the visitors. Sixty-seven years ago
Bishopbourne was built for Bishop Tufnell. Mrs.
A. E. Moore was amongst the throng on the grassy
slopes of the park.
There was a party at Corinda for lawyer Elizabeth
Nimmo, who marries Dr. S. A. Trout this month.
Misses M. and P. Petford were the hostesses. Daffodil
and Irish crochet was worn by the guest of honor.
St. Andrew’s, Creek-street, displayed an original
color scheme of mignonette green and pillar-box red
for the wedding of Leslie Hooper and Phyllis Morrow.
Ivory satiu was worn by the bride, who was given
away by her father. The ’maids, Joyce Morrow 1 and
Meta and Lorna Hooper, were in mignonette green
and carried scarlet posies, and Mary Hooper, in
white and green, was trainbearev. Bougainvillaea and
arum lilies and green posies decked the church.
The reception was held at Glencairn.
Lady Wilson and her daughter went to see the
work of the Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institution at
South Brisbane. A. E. Elpliinstone, the Blair lady
and the Mayoress were among those who received the
vice-regal party at the Polytechnic. Furniture-
making and woodwork were inspected.
Sir Leslie Wilson addressed the officers and men
at the Lytton military camp, where he presented
Lance-Sergeant R. W. Bateman, M.M., with the long-
service medal, and watched the firing practice.
Brigadier Ralph and Lieutenant-Colonel Lorenzo were
others at the inspection.
There were good audiences for the A to Z Revue
at Cremorne, arranged by Thelma Robertson for the
benefit of the C.W.A., the Y.W.C.A. and the Rotary
Fund for crippled children. The Mayor and Mayoress
and Mrs. A. E. Moore were among the official guests
on the second night, as the v.-r. party had been on
the opening one.
St. Alban’s chapel, Southport boys’ school, saw
the wedding of Ned Capper and Jean Hall. The
service was fully choral, the chapel was decked with
arum lilies and the school choir sang “O Perfect
Love.” The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in ivory satin with a tulle veil and
orange blossom. Sybil Hall, Charlotte Capper and
Lola Rouse (Toowoomba), ’maided in petal-pink
georgette with wide-brimmed mignonette straw hats.
The breakfast was in a marquee on the lawn at
Niarda.
At Guardian Angels’ Church, Southport, George
Stanfield and Rose Mary Duncan were made one.
The bride was in ivory georgette and Chantilly lace.
Irene and Grace Duncan ’maided in eau-de-nil. Stocks
and ranunculi decked the bride’s seaside home for
the feasting.


Legal Notices.
JN THE MATTER of the Will and Estate of
EDWARD BARRY late of Llanrothel Charnwood-
road St. Kilda in the State of Victoria Gentleman
deceased.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court
of the State of Victoria made in the action 1932
No. 740 in which THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED is plaintiff and
THOMAS NEVILLE BUNBURY is defendant the
persons claiming to be next-of-kin to GEORGIANA
BARRY (nee STANLEY) late of S 6 Grey-street St.
Kilda aforesaid (the widow of the said Edward
Barry deceased) who died on the 3rd day of March
1913 are by their Solicitors on or before the first
day of February 1933 to come in and prove their
claims at the office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they may be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said order.
The 15th day of February 1933 at eleven o’clock
in the forenoon at the said Office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 13th day of September, 1932.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
DAVIES, CAMPBELL & PIESSE,
267 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
]N THE ESTATE OF RICHARD SPENCER WHITE
Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Deputy Master
of the Supreme Court of South Australia has pur-
suant to “The Trustee Act 1893” directed that all
BROTHERS AND SISTERS of RICHARD SPENCER
WHITE' (late of Number 12 Davenport Terrace
Wayville in the State of South Australia Cook
deceased who died at Adelaide on the Bth day of
November 1931) or THE REPRESENTATIVES OR
DESCENDANTS OF ANY BROTHER OR SISTER
WHO SURVIVED THE DECEASED being bene-
ficiaries under the Will of the said Richard Spencer
White deceased Probate of which was granted by the
said Supreme Court to EXECUTOR TRUSTEE AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LIMITED No. 22 Grenfell Street Adelaide the sole
executor therein named are to send full particulars
of their claims to the said Executor Trustee and
Agency Company of South Australia Limited on or
before the Bth day of December 1932 otherwise
they will be excluded from the distribution of the
estate.
N. 8.: The name of the Father of the deceased
was Sidney Adolphus White. He died at Bombala
New South Wales in 1927.
Dated this 29th day of September 1932.
TRELOAR AND TRELOAR,
Widows’ Fund Buildings,
38 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Executor.
Mio
A
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Pitt St. and Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William St., Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME
ADDRESS..
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Though the sun shone brightly upon Flem-
ington on Saturday, the crowd was not a
dressy one, though here and there the well-
cut lines of a new tailored suit might be
admired. The course was looking its spring-
time best, presenting a magnificent show of
pansies of huge size in blends of purple and
blue, brown and yellow, wine and crimson
lake. There were innumerable beds of them,
bordered with their near relations, violas,
purple and gold. At intervals an island of
Iceland poppies in the green sea of lawns
gave diversity.
Mrs. Ben Chaffey struck the spring note
with a reseda-green wool georgette frock
topped by a shady tusean hat of the same
shade wreathed with white and yellow
daisies. Knight Frank Clarke’s wife showed
a georgette gown of iris blue beneath a navy
coat, and her straw millinery matched. Mrs.
Len Buxton, who was again a winning-
owner, sported a black cloth suit allied to
a smart white sailor hat, and Mrs. Percy
Blackboimi wore a similar turnout. Mrs. E.
Harrison chose coat, skirt and hat of putty
color, the effect brightened by a gaily-striped
scarf. Mrs. R. Grey Smith and Mrs. Rus-
sell Clarke were others in tailor-mades. Nell
Healy wore with her black velvet frock a
longish coat of amber hue. Rosemary
Downes featured stripes in two shades of
blue in her pretty frock, her millinery being
white. The Luxton lady, Mrs. J. B. Bellair,
Mrs. Clive Leonard, the J. F. Nagles, Mrs.
A. F. Hiskens, Mrs. T. V. Millea and her
sister, Miss O’Connor, were among the
patrons.
The Lawn Tennis Association staged a
jolly dance at the Ivooyong clubhouse on
Saturday evening. The ballroom was gay
with stocks, daffodils and ranunculi, which
also filled in corners of the lounge, where
there was a cheerful blaze on the hearth.
Vice-presidents H. A. Pitt and Edmund
Jowett were among those who attended the
hop. Some very pretty gowns were worn,
outstanding being the effect achieved by
Lilian Ward, in a frock of white chiffon
and a black coat. Bonnie Bell looked Rice
in black lace and Mrs. E. Gregg sported
black chiffon.
The Wattle was all aglow with Iceland
poppies for the annual dinner of the P.L.C.
Old Collegians’ Association. The school’s
colors, blue and gold, were featured at the
official table in a flat bowl filled with corn-
flowers and marigolds. Over 100 ex-
students attended. Anne Fortune, hon. sec.
of the Old Collegians’ Club, engineered the
function, which wound up with a bridge
party. Her long coat of silver, rose and
green brocade topped a frock of reseda-
green georgette. Mrs. W. Gray, wife of the
principal, received a posy. Her figured
velvet frock in black, green and amber was
worn with a gold lame coat. The president
of the 0.C.A., Bertha Braithwaite., whose
frock was of pale-green angels-skin, also
came in for a wee bouquet, and other office-
bearers of the association and club were
remembered with corsage sprays of blos-
soms. Of these were Helen Hailes, Miss
11. A. Thomas, Jean Robertson, who was in
black lace, and Essie Mollison, who was
robed in black Velvet, and Miss J. A. Laing.
In the throng were Doctors Alva Boyd, D.
Synan and Bessie Denney, Mrs. Colin
Penney, of Colombo, who is spending a holi-
day in Melbourne ; Mrs. Keith Greenhill, of
Sydney, and Mrs. J. H. Mirams, president-
elect of the Old Collegians’ Club.
Past and present students of the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College are marking the com-
pletion of 20
years’ service
of Principal
Gray, pictured
here by Rus-
kin. by giving
to the college
his portrait,
painted by W.
B. Mclnnes.
It will hang
in the Wyes-
laski Hall,
the assembly-
room of the
school. The
P.L.C. will
reach its 16th
birthday in
1935; the prin-
cipals from
its f o u n-
dation have
been the Rev.
„ George Tait,
Prof. Harper, the late Rev. S. G. McLaren
and the present chief. Mr. Gray is a Maori-
lander, a graduate of Otago Uni. Prior to
coming to Melbourne, he was principal of
the Teachers’ Training College at Welling-
ton and a lecturer at the Uni. there.
With a dinner and dance at the Grosvenor,
Toorak, the Hylton Dales, of Deepdene, made
a double celebration of their silver wedding
and the coming-of-age of their youngest son,
Henry Hylton Dale. Nearly 200 guests were
there to offer congratulations. The hostess
looked most attractive in a trained gown of
white satin and a cape with a white fur
collar, and she held a posy of orchids. Among
the guests were Mr. and Mrs. Dale’s daugh-
ter, Mrs. R. D. Bakewell, and her husband
whose station home is in South Australia.
Mrs. Bakewell s tourmaline-pink flowered
taffeta frock was banded with matching
velvet ribbon. Mrs. A. Kaspar, Mrs. Dale’s
mother, was there, wearing black satin.
Durham and Henry Dale lent their parents
a hand in entertaining.
Jhe Old Melburnians’ Association staged
its dance at Caulfield Towh Hall. The
Harold Clapps, Dr. and Mrs. Lee Anderson,
R. P. Franklin, the A. J. Wilmoths, Beecham
Kiddle and Margaret Kiddle were guests of
honor. Ginghams and cottons were favored
by some of the girls.
Mrs. Felix Lloyd, who is deputy for Mrs.
W. M. Robins as head of the auxiliaries of
Queen Victoria Hospital, engineered a bridge
party at Buckley and Nunns to swell the
institution’s funds. The firm provided after-
noon tea, and the staff stocked a cake stall.
There was a billy-boiling at the rooms of
the Victoria League when the Stawell lady,
who is chairwoman, and other members of
the hospitality committee poured tea for
members of the league’s executive and sub-
committees. Mrs. J. G. Latham gave an
account of her recent visit to England.
Among the hostesses were Mrs. R. Crossman,
Mrs. W. B. Grey Smith, Mrs. Julian Smith
and Mrs. Alex Sargood.
Members of the Findon Harriers and many
other followers of the hounds gathered at
R. Stenning’s property, Bournfield Park,
Epping, for the club’s annual point-to-point
meeting. Sunlight and a crispness in the
air made the picnic enjoyable. Mrs. Ken-
neth Moore, Gwen Johnston that was, won
the Epping point-to-point race on O. C. Loft’s
Nizally. Mrs. Hickey just beat Sandra
Shackell over the fences in the Ladies’
Hunters’ Plate point-to-point. Miss Shakell,
by the way, is one of the very few women who
stick to side-saddle and habit. Representatives
of all hunt clubs were seen about the
grandstand of motor-cars. The Lud Mayor ;
J. L. Byrne, master of the Findons ; E. G.
Robertson, master of the Oaklands ; C.. O.
Moore, of the Club; Major-
General Johnston, R. M. Cuthbertson, the
F. Grimwades, the IT. Newbigins, the Currie
Johnsons and the .Claude Grices were there.
Ruth Evans,
pictured here
by a Dickin-
son - Monteath
camera, is
Inspector of
Schools of
Domestic Arts,
and previously
was head of
the cookery
section of the
Box Hill
Technical
School. For
the last three
years she has
judged the
foodstuffs in
the women’s
industries sec-
tion at the
R.A.S. Show.
The Women Graduates’ Association col-
lected about the dinner-table at the Lyceum
Club to meet Dr. Hilda Northcroft, of Auck-
land, ML. The guest of honor was on her
homeward journey after attending confer-
ences in London and Edinburgh.
Members and associates of the Riversdale
Golf Club to the number of. about 200 joined
in a dance at their clubhouse, St. John’s
Wood, Burwood. Beautiful flowers decked
the rooms, and great log fires added comfort,
for the night was chill. Major V. B. Wilton’s
wife danced in a pale pink gown that had a
glitter of ruby-colored sequins. Mrs. J. B.
Bellair, president of the associates, wore
over her amber-hued frock an ermine coat.
The hon. secs, were Gwen Bedggood, whose
gown was pastel-green lace; and Miss I.
Jones, who chose lace draperies of wood-
brown hue.
The H’arry G. Allens gave a late-in-the-
afternoon dance as a welcome to their son
Richard after his solo flight from England.
Mr. R. Allen left England on August 3 and
flew by easy stages.
At St. John’s, Toorak, Elizabeth, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Ilope-Camp-
bell, of Western Park, Somers, became the wife
of Captain Ernest St. John Brockman, of
the Royal Marines. The bride’s gown was
of ivory satin and a Brussels lace veil
flowed from a wreath into a lengthy train.
’Maids Mary Hope-Campbell and Marie
Mackinnon sported fluffy frocks of jade-green
silk net with primroses about their cor-
sages and coiffures. There were after-
rejoicings at No. 9. The newly-weds will
live in Hongkong.
Robert Garran and his lady halted in
Melbourne on their way from Canberra to
England to attend Melbourne Grammar
School chapel for the wedding of their second
son, John, and Elsie, daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey Chrisp. The bride’s
gown was of creamy-tinted satin, draped
into a bustle bow behind, and clouds of Lim-
erick lace flowed from a cap that had chin-
strap of orange buds. Hester Cotton, the
attendant ’maid, wore a frock of shot-green
taffeta with a wreath of pastel-tinte'd flowers.
Miss Bosville Chrisp, aunt of the bride,
entertained at the Botanical Hotel in cele-
bration of the nuptials.
The knot-tying of Joyce, only daughter of
Robert E. Kneale, editor of the Ballarat
“Courier,” and Huntly, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Walker, of Mont Albert, was cele-
brated at Christ Church, South Yarra. The
bride, who had two attendant ’maids, in
frocks of peach-pink velvet, was in velvet of
magnolia hue with a veil of Brussels lace
mounted on tulle. There was a reception
aftei'wards at No. 9.
At Newman College chapel on Wednesday
evening Father Murphy, rector of New-
man’s, assisted by Monsignor Kennelly, of
Warrnambool, and Father Egan, of Bent-
leigh, forged the bonds between Alice
McDonald and Dr. Edward Bannon. The
bride, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N. R.
McDonald, of Newtown, Geelong, chose
ivory-tinted velvet that melted into a panel
train, her veil being of honiton lace mounted
on tulle. Her trio of ’maids also wore
velvet frocks of powder-blue hue that
blended charmingly with their pink bouquets
and the wreaths about their hair. Dr.
Bannon, who resides at Warrnambool, is
youngest son of the M. J. Bannons, of
Elwood. There was a dinner at the Windsor
afterwards..
Adelaide amenities-
The Governor-General and Lady Isaacs have been
overwhelmed with social functions. Directly after
their arrival on Tuesday morning Lady Isaacs was.
present at an at-home given in her honor by the
National Council of Women, of which she is patron.
In the evening the G.-G.’s wife, with his Ex. and
Lady Hore-Ruthven, was present at the; Australia
Hall when the Repertory Theatre staged four small
plays by members of the society.
At the Town Hall the G.-G. was welcomed by
the Lud Mayor and Chief Secretary Whitford.
Afterwards the Mayoress was hostess at morning tea.
In the evening, prior to the reception at Government
House, the Chief Justices entertained the vice-
regal visitors together with several Judges and their
wives at dinner at his residence at Magill.
Government House was a blaze of flowers for the
reception to the distinguished visitors. Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s flesh-toned satin toilette was cut on
diagonal lines, and her ornaments were pearls;
Lady Isaacs chose a parchment satin gown with
diamonds. Miss Murray was in black georgette
and lace; Mrs. Lionel Hill wore black taffeta; it
was left to the Mayoress to introduce a little color
with a Lido-blue lace frock.
The Mayoral Ball on the succeeding night was a
brilliant gathering, what with gay uniforms and
bright colors. Lady Isaacs was wearing a green
and gold brocaded tissue toilette and diamonds. Lady
Hore-Ruthven looked well in a pale blue and silver
brocade gown, while Miss Murray forsook her usual
black frocking for a charming costume of powder-
blue lace and georgette, with a velvet cape to match.
The Mayoress was gowned in black georgette, the
upper part of the bodice being fine gold and black
lace veiling cream ninon. The organ galleries were
massed with pale green elm foliage and wisteria,
and there were flowers along the front of the
stage. Mrs. Mellis Napier undertook the supper-
table floral work.
The A.T.C. meeting at’ Cheltenham was well
attended. Features of the afternoon were the finish
of the run by the Adelaide Hunt Club on the
course, and the presence of the red-coats afterwards
at the official tea, over which the chairman (Mr.
J. H. Morish) and his wife, presided. Mrs. Morish
was a slim figure in a pale grey tailored flannel suit
and a shiny straw sailor hat to tone. Except as
regards their millinery the women have not ventured
yet into anything pertaining to spring.
A word from Westralia:—
The Orient Co. annually lends a steamer berthed
in Fremantle in the cause of charity. This year
the cancer appeal was the good cause for which
tiie Oronsay accommodated some 650 bridge players
on one of her decks. Mrs. McWhae, all in black for
the function, and Mrs. F. A. Hadley, in brown with
beige traceries, topped the committee and a bunch
of girls traded sweets and raffle tickets. A delectable
tea was served in the dining-room and Max Way
had an eye to everyones’ well-being.
Bae Bick and Howard Bonner were wedded upon
a recent evening. The dark, slender bride wore
opalescent satins, the train cut in one with the gown
and a bandeau of blossoms holding her lace veil
in position. Three ’maids, Joan Stowe, Phyllis
Thiel and Dick Forster, were in apple-green geor-
gettes, swaying frills down one side, and in their
hair Russian bandeaux of net and wax blossom.
Bride and ’maids carried sprays of flowering peach.
Mrs. Bick entertained guests in King’s Park pavilion.
Mrs. H. C. Goff’s only daughter Betty and
Chester Sticht, of California, exchanged vows in the
Returned Soldiers’ Chapel of St. George’s Cathedral.
The 1 bride’s cocoa georgettes were plentifully pin-
tucked in diagonal lines; her matching turban with
its plaited trimming boasted a wee nose veil and
she carried a muff of pansies. Attendants Isobel
Goldstein and Joyce Parsons wore frocks of beige
georgettes and droopy brown hats. After the toasts
at the Esplanade, guests farewelled the Hobson’s
Bay which took the young couple to Malta en route
for the IJ.S.
Lady Chaytor caused a flutter of eyebrows by
walking into the Palace for luncheon wearing her
leather flying suit with its baggy pants and quan-
tities of zip fasteners. Temple Court was packed
upon two afternoons for the presentation of Foy’s
spring fashions, the English airwoman doing the
patter and Estelle Andersen producing the manne-
quin parade. The blonde lady, who made several
changes of costume, wore a chain of dandelions with
one of her cocktail gowns.
Owing to brilliant weather ‘and the accessibility
of Perth links, galleries were larger than usual for
the championship matches. Mrs. R. D. Forbes won
the title of the State’s best woman player, also the
L.G.U. Cup, and, with her husband, the Lovell Cup,
the equivalent of the State’s open mixed foursomes.
This year the Pollyanna will sail upon the Swan
and the Indian Ocean instead of in and out of the
coves of Port Jackson and the blue Pacific. The
purchaser of Dick Strelitz’s show launch is Roland
Smith, commodore of Freshwater Bay Yacht Club.
G.-H. ballroom housed the Shell Ball, and the
pride of many gardens which blazed below stairs
were sold after supper; funds were also augmented
by the sale of fragrant' shoulder posies, Black-
goWned Miss Northmore came with the C.J. Mrs.
Arthur Jacoby wore distinctive black, sequin-
sprinkled ; a raspberry velvet cape flew upon the
flowered georgettes of Mrs. Frank Davies; Mrs.
Allingham wore Burgundy; Mrs. Raphael and Mrs.
Joe Bunning were other adherents of black; Hetty
Forbes was an attraction in her moss-green laces and
her auburn-headed sister rustled lilac taffetas.
Elizabeth Edwards arrived in black velvet from top
to toe and yards of orange feather boa; Jean Hadley’s
cherry-red velvet included a capelet.
rp ag table-talk •
The Royal Auto Car Club’s annual shivoo, held at
* he Masonic Hall and in the clubhouse, was a cheery
affail , The Lieu t.-Gov. and his lady smiled on the
function> and the v .. r . tv inc]uded President
Weller Arnold and his better half M and Mrs .
Brettingham Moore, Col. and Mrs. McColl, Lieut.-
Oommander> Mrs . and Miss S ymonds, Col. H. Nairn
Butlerj Ml . Tom Lyo Mr _ and Mrs _ G H EvanS(
the Misses McColl and Cochrane (Sydney), and Mr.
and Mrs c _ H Ikin . Young gum-tips, Iceland
poppies and pink-flowering peach bloom furnished the
decora ti o ns
oob w ' w _ GibHn G B V-D and Lieu t.-Co].
w . L. Crowther, D.S.A., V.D., were farewelled at the
Army Medical Corps , dinner at Radley’s,
Both offlcei . s have a fine record of war and post . war
service; Col. Giblin has been P.M.O. since 1911.
The offlcers , mess of the R . A . N . R . f are welled the
departing Naval Commandant, Lt.-Com. S. R.
SymondS) Mrs . Symonds and daughter Kathleen. About
200 guests danced op layed brid in the screen ed,
off lounge> and supper was sel . ved in the basement
of the Drin Ha]] L i eu t.-Gov. Nicholls and his
lady were present and there wag abi roll . up of
naval and mi]itary brass hats and their woraen folk.
The Arts and c ,. afts Exhibition at the Town Hall
made an interestins and attractive show inlaid wood .
work> cal . vingj nee dlework of all sorts, and pottery
and hooked rugs bcing . special i y noticeable. L.
Dechaineux, president of the society, in opening the
show> re f erred feelingly to the good work done by
the late Alan Walker in encouraging the arts.
Mrs . PelT y, Mrs. Zoe Viney and Betty Brodribb
engineered a very jolly dance at the Longford Town
Hall> Y oung folk from all parts of the north and
west cou „tryside and from Launceston motored'out
f ov be j un
The Arth ' ur Harts> with daughter PhylliS) are back
in Launcest on after their trip to Java. Dr and
Mrs _ John Ramsay have also returned {rom the same
itinerary
Bulbs ' all a . gvowing and a . blow ing turned the
oity Hall into an abode of beauty at the Spring
ko . w ’ as Bulbs there were all manner of
* pn " g 1 . Blossoms, notably primroses and hyacinths,
? e .. e ™ es ' •'B Hinsby won the
? am P lons J P or the best daffodil; competition was
ln aU classes. .
~ The James Mu " a y s a >' e Back again in Hobart for
, mon . have taken tlle D’Arcy
L s ns ouse in Sandy Bay.


NOT
NBOT
llou DAY
gPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend, your next holiday amid ideal surroundings f
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Line
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin:”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 Georg"
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—Melbourne",
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N T .z.)’
{§>
ALEMITE
LUBRICANTS
and the modern, scientific
ALEMITE SYSTEM OF
HIGH PRESSURE
LUBRICATION
gave him thousands of
added motor car miles!
Force out the old bring in the
new! That’s ALEMITE-ing—the
scientific method of lubricating
every bearing surface in a motor
car. And for every bearing a
specialized ALEMITE lubricant
—for water pump to differential.
ALEMITE Service assures longer
car life.
for decoking ..
A positive solvent of carbon deposits, cleaning cylinder heads
and valves by a new process which eliminates tedious and
costly mechanical methods. Quicker engine response and
greater mileage to the gallon always follow the use of CARBO-
SOLVE. If your service station lacks ALEMITE, write to the
following for particulars: K-Aust. 9-32
MR. KENNETH I. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.,Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 HaySt., Perth
E. A. MAOHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street; Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago,U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
“Humoresque.”
BY VELIA ERCOLE.
IVAN BELIKOV played second violin in
the small orchestra which the Cafe
Cossack retained to keep its customers’
miuds off their food. The Cafe Cossack
sprouted in George-street, Sydney, and,
apart from a regular service of bortsch and
the Russian blouses worn by the members
of the orchestra, it did nothing to justify
its name. Perhaps the word “sprout” is not
quite accurate, since the cafe was in a base-
ment, and, though the proprietor meditated
taking the first floor of the building if busi-
ness improved, that time had not yet
arrived. So we shall say the Cafe Cos-
sack had its roots in George-street, and add
—progressing in our sincerity—that Ivan
Belikov’s real name was Henry Bell, and
that it .suited him far better than the one
he had assumed. Not all his wearing of
Russian blouses, his playing of “The Volga
Boat Song” and his frequent consumption
of bortsch had made Henry seem other than
what he was, an Australian who had never
been out of Australia and, if you asked him,
didn’t want to go.
Henry’s dissatisfaction—for ho had one,
like all men—was not with his country (he
was fond of saying, “Show me a better ’ole
an’ I’ll go to it”) but with his job. He
disliked playing the violin. He had dis-
liked it from the hour when, as a
small boy, he had commenced taking lessons
at his mother’s behest. Mrs. Bell (now
dead, and we hope enjoying celestial music)
had foreseen her son famous as a Kubelik or
a Kreisler, encouraged in this foresight by
an incident which might not have impressed
anyone less imaginative. One day Henry,
aged five, had been discovered with a tennis
racquet stuck violin-wise under his chin.
Across the handle of the racquet he was
scraping a stick, and, being asked what he
was doing, had lisped, “I’se playing the
violin.” The fact that his father had in-
tended Henry to add “and Son” to a sound
plumbing business (with drains a specialty)
had not deterred Mrs. Bell. Henry, she
avowed, was a born violinist, and Henry
should have his chance. A number of. years
and money which the Bells could.not afford
were spent in giving Henry his chance, and,
as he was an amiable lad and weak, with
no strong leanings towards plumbing, he
took it. - By the time he realised what-he
really wanted to do, he could play the violin
with a fair measure of correctness . and a
total lack of inspiration, and people were
paying him to do it.
So we find* him, having drifted through
the orchestra of various suburban cinemas,
chased by the advent of the talking pictures
into a Russian , blouse, a. Russian name and
the Cafe Cossack. . And we find him at a
happy moment.
The leit-motif of knives and forks on
plates was sounding. The orchestra was
resting, having just played “My Canary Has
Circles Under His Eyes,” and Henry, more
or less comatose, was in the grip of visions.
They were pleasing visions, too, rudely dis-
turbed by Ernie, the saxophone-player,- spit-
ting neatly past his ear into a potted aspi-
distra which flanked the piano.
“Snap out of it,” Ernie said. ‘“You look
like a sick prawn.” -
“That’s love,” said Henry.
Ernie yawned. “Don’t talk to me about
love,” he commanded.
Henry had had no real intention of doing
so. He twanged a violin string medita-
tively, and Ernie yawned again.
“Beats me what she sees in you.”
“Romance,” suggested Henry.
Ernie unexpectedly became interested. “I
guess you’re right, boy. It’s the music gets
them. Before I took up this game I was—
well, just f.a.q. But now see how the
women throw themselves at a chap.” He
cast a sidelong glance at a small dark girl
sitting at a corner table, and hitched up the
cuffs of his Russian blouse.
“Yes.” Henry, too, became interested in
the conversation, and from the security of
his own position ventured a little advice.
“But where you make a mistake, Ernie,
is in not usin’ your power the right way.
You take up with anyone. Now, ever since
we’ve been here, what have you done?
Wasted your time with girls who don’t get
you anywhere, an’ now you’ve got a repu-
tation an’ no decent girl would trust you
as far as she could throw you. What you
haven’t got is real ambition.”
Ernie, unoffended, chewed a match and
continued to regard the small dark girl out
of the corner of his eye.
“An’ I knew what I wanted,” Henry con-
tinued, “an’ I watched my step, an’ now
I’m sitting pretty.”
He was. Or practically. Fate, after
treating Henry Bell , so perversely for so
many years, was about to hand him the
reality of his dream on a silver salver. It
was a simple dream, but many men have
dreamed more simple dreams and never
found the realities. Henry wanted a
chicken farm. He liked hens. He liked to
watch them, still or in movement. He found
their clucking far more melodious than
violin-playing. In the crowing of a cock lie
heard nothing melancholy. He thought it
a homely, companionable sound.
A- house, with someone inside it providing
three regular meals a day, a sunny verandah
on which, he might lie, sleeping if he felt
like it, waking to the clucking of hens or
the gratifying silence which might imply
that they -were laying eggs, was Henry’s
long-conceived idea of Heaven. Above all,
he liked the hens’ way of earning a living
for a man. You flung them a handful of
.corn . or what-not—and there you wore!
iGrates of eggs. Life would be a simple, rest-
ful thing. i .
■ He had had vague ideas as to the achieve-
ment off; this heaven; had pondered, without
effect-, on the .ways* off getting that needful
thing .galled “a little capital.” But he had
made no direct efforts. . He had not even
taken, up Christian Science, though that
would • have accounted nicely for Phoebe’s
arrival. Phoebe ■ had come, alone and be-
wildered, into the Cafe - Cossack. She had
seldom dined in town, but after this visit
she j came frequently (with great inconveni-
ence and'-expense'known only to herself)
to" eat bortsch • and ■ gaze entranced at the
second violin.
Phoebe was an honest girl, and possessed
of few female wiles. She succumbed to
Henry’s-first overture, made, not because he
was -particularly attracted, but at Ernie’s
dictate to “give the poor girl a break,” and
at their first appointed meeting she had told
the young man the somewhat commonplace
story of her life and revealed her circum-
stances. It did not occur to her to pose
as other than she was, though, in humility,
she realised that the glittering Ivan Belikov
could be little engaged by a girl who ran
a chicken farm. Up near Smithfield, she
told Henry, and felt increasingly bucolic..
But the incredible had happened. Henry
had professed himself an admirer of her
courage and initiative, had praised her pluck
ln carrying on the farm after the death of
lier father had left her alone m the world.
But he insinuated, even into that earliest
relationship, a protectiveness which made
Phoebe’s bones almost melt. On his first
visit to the farm lie had carried this protec-
SS “.‘Tlllf °f“ “ S ATIe 11 'yo“
proposed marriage and boon accepted-
But what, Phoebe had said as they
wandered arm-in-arm around the ffowlyard,
shall we do with the farm? You can’t live
so far from town and your; work.”
At that juncture Henry had shown wis-
dom. He had kissed Phoebe (lie quite en-
joyed kissing her), and had said off-
handedly,; “Oh, that will take care of itself,
We’ll fix it up after we’re married. Sell it
or something.”
Odd, on the surface. But Henry was well
aware that it was not his visits to the farm
which had really won Phoebe, but hers to the
Cafe. If her chickens allured him, his violin
allured her no less. There was far too much
violin-playing in his courtship to leave Henry
really pleased. Phoebe liked him to bring his
violin when lie came to visit her. And she
liked Humoresque,’ which Henry partied-
larjy detested. She had, m fact, a passion for
it, and tor the time being Henry had been
content to feed that passion. . _
“Well, let’s got on with it,” Ernie said,
We’ll' give ’em the ‘Volga Boat Song.’ ”
“Ain’t those Russians w'ritten anything
except the ‘Volga Boat Song’?” Henry asked,
as he had asked many times before.
“Nothing that you could play, son,” was
Ernie’s retort. “Would you like us to give
’em the Wedding March from ‘Lohengrin’?”
Henry grinned. He did not mind the teas-
ing. He did not really mind playing'the
“Volga Boat Song,” since this was the last
time he would have to play it. He: even
achieved a melancholy enthusiasm, and as lie
caught his violin under his chin convinced
himself that what he was going -to tell Phoebe
was true enough. Giving up his! violin play-
ing was a big thing. Not many mim; would
scrap the work of a lifetime,'abandon their
professions, for the sake of a woman,' to keep
her in healthy, rural surroundings and leave
untouched that sentimental attachment which
she had for the home of her youth. Because
that was wliat lie was doing. From to-
morrow Ivan Belikov would cease to exist,
and in three days Henry Bell, chicken-farmer,
would appear to & waiting world. During the
whole of his playing of the “Volga Boat
Song ’ li’enrv felt rather noble, and for almost
the first time in his life quite enjoyed; sawing
away at his violin. But, the music ended,
the old distaste overcame .him.
He regarded his violin, an imitation Stradi-
varius, with Intense dislike. Certainly it!was
not;a. good violin.: life-fell to.wondering what
it would bring when lie sold Tt, as lie- had
wondered ever since the question"of-the - ex-
penses- connected i with the wedding and a
honeymoon, .however brief, had occurred to
him. • He had made tentative essays among
brother musicians,, but none ;of them- wished
to purchase the violin. But Joe was a cer-
tainty. There was nothing'old Joej Isaacs
wouldn’t buy, and probably,'seeing one had
done so much business in the past and it;was
to pay for his wedding and all, old Joe would
spread himself a bit. The violin was worth
every penny- of forty pounds: Probably Joe
would give a fiver, and with a little help from
the boys he could extricate himself from his
lodging-house with his last week’s salary un-
ravished. The
“Snap out of it! You aren’t in church
yet!”
“An’ the best turn you ever done me,” said
Henry belligerently to his violin, “will be pro-
vidin’ me with the cash to get married.”
m
af?„ e . C l-ih* e ultimo pi,,!?
nii°hu was
w
rieht but* vou couldn’t tell about women
and ”p rough when *. found
|l™w'n g .Tthor, if l shewould fate Ms promise
to abandon his job in the spirit in which it
was to be offered. A reasonable woman would
appreciate the thing he was going to do —
surrender his life’s ambition, his dead
mother’s ambition, and take over the manage-
ment of Phoebe’s chicken farm. But were
there any reasonable women? Pliocbe was
almost as gone on his music as she was on
him. Well, hang it all. a man had some right
to please himself! Why should women con-
derail him to fiddling for the rest of his life?
If she didn’t like it, she could lump it. But
not before they were married!
But Henry, as he erected a melodious
monument to the Captain Who Played the
Ukulele as the Ship Went Down, felt the
choice of music just a. little too appropriate,
He was, in fact, uneasy,
But next morning, as he emerged from
j oe » g place with five pounds in his. pocket, his
p ne asiness had vanished. .Toe had whined and
howled, but had been finally overcome by his
deep, personal attachment for H'enry and his
sentimental fondness for weddings.
Henry now had nine pounds odd, and a
new suit which had not to be paid for immedi-
ately, and he felt for the first time in his
life a free man. His sense of elation made
him generous, and he expended two pounds
on a brooch set with rubies to be given as a
podding present to Phoebe. He engaged a
hotel-room for three days and paid for it
m advance, determined that there should be
P°. h .fich on his honeymoon, and acting on the
principle that the less money he had the less
could-float away from him m the days winch
must pass before his wedding morning. The
wedding-breakfast was to be a gift from the
Cate Cossack.
So it was in the Cafe Cossack that the
story' ended; as it began. Phoebe, a deljght-
fill, blushing bride, paused in the corridor
on her way to , the dining-room. On the
chair : there,; was a parcel whose full signi-
ficance did not'at first reach Henry,
“My wedding present, darling,” Phoebe
cooed. ,“I remembered what you told me
about 'new violins never being any good, so
I searched'and searched, and only yesterday
I found this. The dearest old man, a Mr.
Isaacs, sold it .to. me.. He said it was a real
he’s been keeping for someone
who-could'really appreciate it. It looks just
like yours, but. the price was different, believe
me !” She laughed, tearing at the paper wrap-
pings.-
“It: cost a hundred pounds, though it’s
tvorth 1 thousands,-the"old man said. And it’s
all paid for. .I sold the farm spot cash to
Mr. Meekin and he took over all the mort-
gage.; I never told you about the mortgage;
I didn’t want to worry you 'with my troubles
until T really'had'the right to. I’ve done
nothing- but lose money there ever since
father died, and ! was glad to be rid of it,
even .though 1 Meekin took- me down. , And,
darling,. I want you to ,do me a great, big
favor.' I want you to get up there on the
dais, and .play .‘Humoresque.’,”


lUO[dUjfic % lON
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause is
still not generally understood. There are those who, if they have
a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsion. Liverish people take a
headache cure and nervous folks still take stimulants, or even
Mljji
Ipf
. <6
IjMwiti
: ':'l &
When buying be sure
and get DR. MORSEL
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
which are packed in
this familiar wrapper
printed in blue»
drugs, to “steady their nerves,” and so
on. They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to return in
a more severe form. In other words,
they have not extinguished the fire,
but merely turned off the fire alarm.
Treating the cause may take a little
longer and call for more patience, but
it has the advantage of being much
more beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will be found the remedy that gets at
the cause. They give you clean bowels, a healthy stomach,
a lively liver and rich, red blood. For Biliousness, Constipation,
and such complaints, arising from Imperfect Digestion, Sluggish
Liver, and Impure Blood, they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morse's
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY AUSTRALIANS
WORMS
THEIR SYMPTOMS AND
TREATMENT.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of
the Bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and biting, and
not infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing.
Sympathetic with this is a sensation of
itching at the nostrils producing a
disposition to pick the Nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The bowels
are often disordered, sometimes relaxed,
as in Dysentery. The appetite is exceed-
ingly variable; in some cases natural; in
others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The abdomen is often hard,
swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagree-
able taste, and a copious flow o.f saliva;
swelling of the upper lip, bleeding of the
nostrils and disposition to grind the teeth
during the sleep are other characteristic
ymptoms. The effects, however, often ex-
pend beyond the Alimentary Canal, and
various derangements of health are experi-
enced in consequence, either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affec-
tions such as fretfulness, irritation of
temper, wakefulness or disposition to ex-
cessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden start-
ing out of sleep, as if from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movements of the eyelids, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General
convulsions are not infrequent in children,
and symptoms strongly resembling “Wader
on the Brain” have been ascribed to worms
and have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and aw
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so character-
istic that no mother need have any doubts.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as to
give the slightest suspicion a careful watch
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. An-
other point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in this way of a disturbed
nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific pro-
perties which destroy the worms but cause
no injury to the Stomach or Bowels, and
do not weaken the system. The pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have-no disagreeable taste or smell,
but on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4 /. per packet (6 packets 23/-, post
free). - '
If writing, please mention “The Bulletin.”
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fyulLetin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2621 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from *
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ....
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7 /-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
¥•
4*V*,cP f
w*
o-.
T>
0°
,\o e .
Vv'
0<
■■ &
er
0^


sfd
Wl RE PRODUCTS
WILL GIVE.
WCUMTYfe, INSTOCK
k - Made in Newea*dle-l|'SW>.
—* bylandj MWi
STAR
4
STEEL FENCING
POSTS
ft
The post that is rust-proof, fire-proof,
ant-proof, easy to erect, and practically
everlasting.
HINGEDJOINT
FE.NCE.
r r WARATAtfV
' GALVANISED \
STLL FENCIHCi
, WIRE
k “Once strained, always tight.” All
A gauges, in Standard and special
ft ■:/ soft qualities.
BARBED WIRE
“Iowa” and “Waukegan” patterns. Waratah
barbed wire is true to gauge—of uniform
temper, suitable to all climatic
Renowned for strength and flexibility.
ft*
jrWACATAHFV
WIRE. NETTIMO
Manufactured in all sizes, gauges and widths,
for rabbits, sheep, dogs, pigs, poultry, etc.
War at ah Wire Netting is always full weight,
with regular mesh, good appearance, and per-
fectly galvanized for maximum protection
against
weather. Runs
out straight
and flat.
VWVRATAtt
FENCE. i
l DROPPERS A
THE EVER-OPEN
CATE
t
m
w
m
A
\
%
l
wmt4
iztztzi
£
51
A
i
♦
V’
4t/i*T LT*»
|/y
&
iMSMi
i
*
SrctAHSHT
#.
1
#
5
IZt
5#
I
*
*V«
»:c
•?<
i
ia
SSSSfi
mznm
SUPPLIED BY ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS—AND AT
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD., MELBOURNE & NEWCASTLE.
