

>
WARDI
>9 MED*
Per 3
ss«u—
-; &
*4Rd£D;
MEDAt 5
£A%
I
Perth?
SS3*
llt i o --
meuals
fine
Perth
MEDAi-SJ
S33SSMSS® 3 ,
& ZDcstSnO
J ohnDewdVo
Dl srillers PERTH. Scoria
FIN
«9"Ol1
Pcife
ne
n et*:omt6mts ' p '"'
*A, % „* *,OOoet O' iC ®
IMPSRiTU
&&?esr
«JoKi\T)ev
Distillers PERTH,
flue
NETCONTE
PRODUCE
o
near
$
IMPSRpJ
(rWcsrS
doKrvDewa
Oisfiiiers PERTH* Sc
NETCONTEN
<3&
3^
0
I MPGRI/l LIH STITCJT&
6- IdssrSm Cwbs
<Johi\Dewar&Soi\s L d
Oilfillers WTH.<SconwyJ.» LONDON
N£T C 0N 7 £HTS-f3rv.u?S
Mount** r«i tuntrWCw >rr-ic»W«*s'»a/
G
aF pm<s FhaF
tnabk <wn|MK
Kwnfoty Flw
M in whisky
PP According to the
size of your pocket,
the extent of your
purse or the needs of
the occasion—there
is a size of DEWAR’S
that you will find just
right in quantity as
in quality. Even the
man who takes but a
little whisky may
make sure of a full
measure of enjoy-
ment by always
haying Dewar’s. PP
DEWARS
GUARANTEED PURE SCOTCH
Bottled only in Bond under Government Supervision
The Bulletin
Qyl&lOx wnx&
Vol. 53.—N0. 2736.
Wednesday, July 20, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Xcwspaper.


THE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
HandwrttM
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 3
My frame
My Address
S.B. 332
f i
An official publication full pf new life,
by the new Queensland Bureau of
Economics.
Real news and new data for all States, with
adequate comment on unemployment, wages, exchange
costs and benefits, budgets, prices, sugar etc with
a conspectus of events since 1928.
, 185 pages—price Is. 6d.
Also “Credit,” by the Director
(J. B. Brigden), Price, Is. 6d.
On the creation of credit, Douglasism, and.creative
budget policy, etc., authentic 'stuff for Australians
whose brains are free.
All Bookshops; all States; or from the
Bureau of Economics, Brisbane.
Common Sense Has Failed
TRY ECONOMIC SENSE
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite: Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tari* 4
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
jkiimsrmnt
è
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
y/,
Testimonies from all parts of
the world prove the beneficial
results obtained from theuseof
Cuticura
Preparations;
Pimples, rashes, eczema and all forms
of itching, burning skin troubles are
quickly healed by regular use of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Sample each
free. Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydnej?,
N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
'**' ' should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, Loudou,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.; 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
u Bringing us in
many thousands
of pounds ”
INIBROOK HIGHWAY LIMITED
O P.l. OUKOING
127 ADELAIDE STREET
BRISBANE
87th May 1932.
The Manager,
"Brisbane Courier",
BRISBANB.
Dear Sir, /
Kindly ba advised that wo now have suf\
fiolent capital In hand to enable a start to bo
made on the construction of our highway from
Sandgata to Hedcllffe. We have made arrange-
ments with the Premier, Mr, a.B. Moore, offic-
ially to turn the first sod on the Bth June,
The Company was registered only on the 11th
March last, and we now’ are happy to make the
above announcement.
We have found the "Brisbane Courier" by
far the beet advertising medium,/ The one full
page advertisement of ©ur prcopeotus was a means
of bringing us in many thousands of pounds, and
we think it only reasonable that we should ac-
quaint you of this fact.
Tours fal fitfully.
(/$/%'
Chairman of Directors.
c wni f a \A
\H S3 9 J
Xhss letter, written without any suggestion from the "Courier,” and which,
however, we are permitted to publish, has been received from Mr. M. R. Horni-
brooK, Chairman of Directors of Hornib rook Highway Ltd. on the day on which
the announcement was made of the date of t*.e official turning of the first
sod of the Sandgate-RedcL'ffe viaduct by the Premier of Queensland (Mr. A E
Moore). Mr. Hornibrcok is Managing Director of M. R. Hornibrook Ltd., the
of P uhll c Works Contractors in Queensland, who have recently com-
‘he Grey Street Bridge in Brisbane at a cost of £420,000. This is the largest
reinforced concrete bridge m Australia, and has foundations of exception-
lai|;c d mensions. The new viaduct from Sandgate to Redcliffe will be the
largest bridge over a sheet of continuous water in Australia.
HAS ALWAYS BEEN AND STILL IS THE LEAD-
ING DAILY NEWSPAPER IN QUEENSLAND.
ney REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phofte 85007.
JB
Oi
HJIRIEaVU 'Dlf
IiIRCDIIATII®»*
MELBOURNE REPRESENTA-
TIVE:
LOUIS S. MARKS,
Argus Building. ’Phone F 3906.
OFFICE:
240-242 QUEEN SXREE I, BRISBANE- ’Phone 82991.
‘ 1 '' ‘ " 1 1 7 ' 1
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Social Satire
The English are doing it better probably
than writers of any other race nowadays.
They are less emotional than the Americans,
and they aren’t preoccupied with politics
or religion like the French. Belloc is the
only front-ranker who lets himself get
annoyed about established instituticf s—
democracy, Parliaments, churches and s" on
—and he is half-French. Aldous Huxley is
the inspiration for the younger generation.
They can never be like hi-m and they know
it, but they’re as like him as they’re able
to be. Not having his phenomenal know-
ledge of painting, philosophy, science, m rsic,
history and the rest, nor the immense
vocabulary which makes self-expression such
a simple matter for him, the younger men
are unable to discourse lightly, learnedly,
provocatively, through their characters on
a variety of recondite subjects. Few of
their works bear re-reading. But they have
captured his detached attitude. Nothing
shocks them except stupidity; they are
tolerant of everything but humbug and
intolerance, and they have only a good-
tempered grin for these weaknesses. When
they take their characters across the
Channel it is usually to Italy; that Italy
of Mrs. Aldwinkle and her friends which
is for ever a bit of England. Otherwise
they do their jeering at home; mostly at
the expense of the smug, the fatuous, the
clamantly righteous and those who are
no longer young. No post-war novel by
one of these writers is complete without a
slam or two at public schools and pre-war
Britons.
Anglo-1 taly
James Aston, author of They Winter
Abroad (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.), is
understood to be an eminent novelist who
has used a pen-name for the first time. No
less a personage than David Garnett re-
cently took over a column in the “New
Statesman” to explain how much the book
had amused him. He probably knows the
author, which makes all the difference.
Those who don’t are likely to be rather
bored with the first half, in which the Brit-
ish patrons of Hotel Santo Biagio at Posi-
tano are introduced and explained. The
story begins to move when the theme is
revealed. It is an old one: the liability
of young—and not-so-young—people to
fall from virtue when the conditions are
favorable. Mr. Pupillary (who is a com-
posite lifted from “Those Barren Leaves”);
the professor, who dogmatises at vast length
after the manner of Mr. Cardan, but not
nearly so wittily or well; Mrs. Prune and
her daughter (“she had protruding teeth
and was onty nineteen”); Dr. Arnold-
Browne, a hypocritical old public-schoolboy;
Anne, a nice Scotch girl, and poor Mr.
Mclnvert, whose hair grew more luxuri-
ously inside his ears than anywhere else—
these and others equally well and wickedly
drawn are thrown together in an agreeable
climate, with no work to do and a suffi-
ciency of money. So most of them fall in
lust; which, of course, is entirely different
from falling in love. Pupillary and
Mclnyert run after Constanza, a 17-year-
old gold-digger who works in an adjacent
quarry. Anne yearns for the reluctant
Pupillary. Dr. Arnold-Browne meditates
the ruin of Miss Prune:—
Could an old Rugbeian, an old Hawk,, seduce a
virgin with protruding teeth? Seduction was com-
patible with goodness at games certainly, for none
of his friencjs ever talked of anything else—-but
was it compatible with teeth? There waa something
about Miss Prune which hinted that it might be
caddish to seduce her. To buy a mistress in Leicester-
square was a matter which could be boasted of
with one’s hand upon one’s tie, but the conquest of
Miss Prune—virginal, Procrustean —wasn’t there
something about that .something un-English?
However, he does seduce her, and imme-
diately afterwards drags his wife back to
England in a panic. She has the money and
he is terrified that she may discover his
sin—which, in point of fact, she did almost
as soon as it was committed. Pupillary
fails to seduce Constanza, who has no
interest in him, or Mclnvert either, except
as a-supplier of small gifts, and they return
from an excursion to Capri to find she has
married one of her fellow-countrymen.
Pupillary is in despair. As for Mclnvert:—
He climbed over the railings where he had slain
the lizard, noted in the starlight the now decaying
stalk of solitary asphodel. Asphodel was the flower
which bloomed” in the Elysian Fields. He took off
his coat, folded it carefully and hung it over the
failings. Then spreading his arms as if he were
Miss Prune going for her daily exercise, he dived
head foremost on to the rocks below.
This is one of the innumerable imported
novels that make the reviewer wonder on
what principle, if any, poor old “Redheap”
was banned. The
theme and the
blandly amoral out-
look are the same,
and the treatment
is much franker.
The only feasible
explanation seems to be that our rulers
don’t mind what is said about a social
circle provided it isn’t a social circle in
Australia.
Seaside Society
Ample Clover, by A. VV. Smith (The
Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.), satirises home-
staying Britons of the same class, but of a
rather different type. The social life of
Lyddmouth is centred in the local golf
club. Here, like a beast of prey waiting
to spring on its helpless victims, lurks
Colonel Godley, aged 84. He is the central
figure of the book, and he is described with
an intensity of dislike, which is the nearest
that many of England’s post-war satirists
get to strong feeling. The old man is the
terror of the members, and the bane of
the servants. He has a collection of idiotic
reminiscences, which he is always ready to
repeat, and he is inquisitive, spiteful and a
gossip-monger.
Once a year he made a practice of putting on his
old boy’s fie of purple, orange and crimson in
diagonal stripes, and a straw hat with a band of
the same colors, and of taking the train for the
dear old school at Hamblesham. He was convinced
that it was Hamblesham—and schools like it—which
had made us what we are. Hamblesham, the
English public schools, whatever they did or did
not do, turned out gentlemen. He believed in that
firmly as he did in cricket and schoolboy honor and
in the integrity which was the monopoly' product
of the system. He also believed in Hod and the
British Empire and in the supremacy of the white
races, to which, however, he did not admit Latin,
Teuton or Slav. He was willing, however, to con-
cede _ that the Norwegians, with whom the British
Empire had never been in conflict, were almost
white —and the Japanese, if not white, were at
least a wonderful little people. His creed was
conveniently simple.
Helen Traill, a sophisticated London girl, is
on her way to stay with her Lyddmouth
cousins, the Hatchards, when the story
begins, and Stephen Chard, a captain in an
Indian regiment, is at Marseilles and mak-
ing for the parental rectory, where he means'
to spend his leave. The Rev. Frederick
Chard and Constance Hatchard are as
closely and almost as maliciously observed
as the colonel. How merciless these young
writers are to the old and ageing! Con-
stance is suffering from sex-repression; it
makes her painfully skittish in the presence
of young men:—
Helen found Stephen pleasant; but poor Constance
ky the window seemed to be getting quite disturbed.
“What’s the weather like, Constance? Has it
stopped raining?”
“It’s all mimsy outside,” Constance said. “Let’s
all go and gyre and, gimble in the wabe just
because we can’t play tennis.”
Helen laughed. Someone had to.
“Stephen,” said Constance, encouraged, “do you
think your vorpal blade would go snicker-snack?”
“I don’t know,” he said politely.
In the. case of the Rev. Frederick Chard
increasing years produce chiefly an increas-
ing sense of futility. No one wants his
ministrations but the very old.
He wanted to reach the young men—to go strid-
ing over the fields to talk as man to man with
Duly urns Williams as he made a hedge, to George
Alloway as he beat sparks from his anvil. If only
Katharine were different, Pitscombe might be the
seat and root of anew reformation to battle with
this rising desire to stray from the walk of life
to which these people had been called. Didyums
Williams and George Allaway, however, knowing all
about hedges and horseshoes, understood little of
what that fuddy duddy old bastard was talking
about.
His only earthly comfort is his wireless
set, with which he spends hours. Elsa
Hatchard, another of virtue’s victims, is
definitely loony and in love with him, her
delusion being that she is an ethereal wave
and capable of reaching him through his
wireless tubes. Helen and Stephen and
Betty Hatchard and Maior Tarrant are the
fortunate members of this rather depress-
ing circle, and very agreeable and human
folk they are. As for some of the others,
not only does their creator show no spark
of pity for them, he seems to gloat over
their miseries.
RED PAGE.
History Without Tear
Margaret Irwin’s novels fulfil the chief
purpose of a good University lecture: they
reconstruct the periods she handles. All her
characters are real people, but she has
a pull over the pundits since she is not
bound down to strict historical accuracy.
Her formula allows her to idealise a famous
person here, impute unworthy motives
there, often with little or no justification;
yet with it all she paints a picture which
may be more helpful to advanced students
than all the history books. Her latest, which
is called rather cheaply Royal Flush
(Chatto and Windus; Bs. 6d.), has for
its heroine the sister of Charles 11.,
who married the degenerate brother of
Louis .XIV.. For the purposes of the
romance, Minette, whose love affairs so
infuriated her husband, is shown as a
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRLTH IN ADVERTISING”—Our Assurance, Your Guarantee.
Anthony
a AAU h/biUVU kJ A V/A\A-i
Horderns'
HALF YEARLY
GENUINE
é
77
mm
\
iiMi
0 «
, //»
ttt
Our Aim Is to Help the Man on the Land!
BUY at GUT PRICES and LUWER your COSTS
£6/15/- She Her £6/7/6
“Uni” Sheller, made by Anthony Hor-
dern & Sons. Capacity, 20 bushels
per hour. Strongly constructed wood
frame, first quality castings throughout,
shaker sieve; the handiest size for the
small maize-grower.
Price £6/15'/-
Sale Price £6/7/6
&
£6/10/-“Uni” Cutter £6
No. 1 “Uni” Chaffcutter, made by
Anthony Horderns’, with 7£in. mouth,
cuts two lengths, jin. and Stur-
dily built on steel legs. Price, £6/10/-
Sale Price £6
£ll/15/- Forge £9/17
Buffalo Portable Forge, with gear*
hand-blower. Size of firepan, 18in
height to top of firepan, 32in.; 44i
over all; diameter of fan case, 12i:
Price £ll/15/
Sale Price £9/17/
( Department—Fourth Floor.)
Reliable Implements at Beneficial Reductions
A
%rt*"
l \4 150
“Little Beauty” Pony Plough
“Little Beauty” Pony Plough. Weighs only 861 b. Sturdy
and strong, ploughs furrow 7in. to Bin. in depth and
width. Ideally suited to all light work, and a splendid
implement at the low price. Price ..' £5
Sal* Price . £4/15/-
I5H* /
f4io
o
wm
i
“Wiard” Moulding Plough
“Wiard” Middle Breaker Steel Beam Plough, with Bin.
cut, giving I 6in. spread. Chilled mouldboard, cast point.
Especially adapted to throw bed into ridges. A great
labor-saver for potatoes, corn ploughing and ditching.
Weight, 901 b. Price £5/7/6
Sale Price £4/10/-
£526
ê
Combination Hoe & Cultivator
Horse Hoe and Cultivator combined. One of the
most valuable time and labor-saving tools avail-
able for the use of the farmer. Equipment com-
prises four 3in. x Bin. cultivator steels, one 4in.
x Bin. cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in.
shovel, all especially hardened; will give lon
service. Price, £5/17/6. Sale Price .... £5/2/
With Depth Gauge. Price £6/2/6
Sale Price £5/10/-
fW< v2 / io / o
D
Zig - Zag Harrows
Australian-made Zig-Zag Harrows. All steel, with
bow for whiffle-tree.
Single. Heavy. Double Bar.
Prices 55/- 80/- 95/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices . . 50/-
75/-
87/6
01 fiq
(Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Save Money NOW on
Myers’ Double-acting Force Pumps
No. R2BB
Usually, £5/12/6
Sale, £5
Myers’ Cog New Gear Force Pump.
Is fitted with 3in. x 4Jin. brass-
lined cylinder, brass-covered piston
rod, and air dome held by four
bolts. Can be operated against
751 b. pressure. Takes 1 pipe.
Price £5/12/6
Sale Price £5
No. R 479
Usually, £6/2/6
Sale, £5/10/-
Myers’ Double-acting Force Tank
Pump. Cylinder of polished iron,
with poppet valves, which hold
the water. The suction and dis-
charge are threaded for 2in. pipe.
Capacity, 2000 gals, per hour.
Price £6/2/6
Sale Price £5/10/-
( Department—Fourth Floor.)
Anvils Reduced
Peter Wright’s Anvils
Peter Wright’s Anvils. Assorted
weights. First quality.
Price, per lb 9d.
Sale Price, per lb Bd.
Second quality.
Price, per lb Bd.
Sale Price, per lb 7d.
(Department-—Fourth Floor.)
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


/
'CUjS~
EEtVECT
TONE...'
Famous Colora-Fura Soprano
of La Scala, Milan, and the Williamson-Imperial Grand Opera C
•LINA
PALI UQHI
I have long looked forward to
visiting Australia, having heard so
much of its beautiful cities, won-
derful climate and its music-loving
people, and now I am here I am
enjoying every minute of my so-
journ among you.
“The Radiola which I have is a
source of great pleasure to me.
The perfect tone and musical
range of this beautiful instrument
surpasses that of any broadcast
receiver I have heard.’*
■
m
: : :v*
1
S & i
mm
m
'm.
*
HWHtUtt*
In this remarkable Radiola A.W.A. has
introduced an entirely new and amazing
radio development, giving Interstate recep-
tion without aerial or earth and with no
interference. The Radiola is also extremely
silent in operation. Priced at £37/10/-,
equipped with Radiotrons,
Hear for yourself the magnificent tone of the
Radiola 55E at vour nearest Radiola Dealer.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD
I e.F\U< SFKIFS
P- A D I
PRODUCT OF AMALGAMATED
OLA
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.


«r
mi
mm
kl
va
n
7.?
V
ii
or:
/
<&
'•"‘Vv
URMORLEYS
WORLD FAMOUS UNDERWEAR
English Quality Made in Australia
There are lull ranges oj IRMA and
IRMALESE ior , ————
u Gomfort
The most expensive lingerie cannot boast
a better fabric than IRMALESE. The luxuri-
ous silken quality and substance earn for it
pride of place with the highest priced rich
silks—but non-ladder IRMALESE is fat
more economical.
The soft clinging silkiness of IRMALESE
gives a sense of well-dressed comfort in every
movement. Vests, bloomers a’nd slips are
available in a fascinating array of designs
and lovely colourings.
For those who prefer wool, cotton, wool and
silk or other mixtures, there is IRMA, deli-
cately soft and guaranteed unshrinkable,
available in all sizes, designs and textures.
IRMALESE and IRMA are Australian-made
by I. & R. Morley—the firm with 140 years
of manufacturing skill behind their products.
AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES.
Factory Representatives for I. and R. Morley Pty. } Ltd.
GOLLIN & COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth (for Queens-
land, Victoria, S. Australia, W, Australia and Tasmania).
C. J. SPAROWE, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney (for N.S.W.).
chaste wife, and Charles, the king who “loved
others as little as he thought they loved
him,” as a devoted brother. There is a
hint at the end that Minette died of arsenic
poisoning, but otherwise a method of dis-
posing of the unwanted which amounted to
a major industry during the Sun King’s
reign is hardly touched on —La Yoisin her-
self only gets one or two passing mentions—
and the unromantic filth of Versailles and
its frequenters isn’t stressed. Louis, his
relations, mistresses and courtiers are, by
implication, as. sanitary in their habits and
fragrant in their persons as they are glamor-
ous in their manner of living. It is an
immense book—over 400 pages—and it fol-
lows Minette’s career from childhood to
her sudden death at 26, after the diplomatic
visit to England whose chief result was a
meeting between Charles and - Louise de
Querouaille, which led to the founding of
the ducal house of Richmond and Gordon.
Running through the story, and emerging
periodically like the motive of a musical
composition, is an ancient theme—the un-
canny recovery powers of the Papacy. At
the beginning of the century the Reforma-
tion seemed to have established itself in
Germany, Austria and the Low Countries,
and France looked like being Protestantised
inside a generation. Yet, by the time Louis
came to the throne Austria, Hungary,
Southern Germany, Flanders and the Wal-
loon provinces were Catholic again, and
Rome was supreme in France. One of the
most suggestive parts of the book—and also
one of the most beautiful—is the descrip-
tion of Minette’s death. The King’s mas-
terful cousin, La Grande Mademoiselle,
learns that the dying woman’s confessor
cannot be found. The name of the cure of
Saint Cloud is mentioned; but Mademoi-
selle demands someone “more suitable.”
“Whose name would look best in the
Gazette?” asks the husband. Madame de
la Fayette suggests the new Bishop of
Condom. “The Abbe Bossuet—admirable.
I will send a messenger to Paris for him at
once.” Eventually they decide not to
wait for Bossuet.
A Jansenist canon called Feuillet, famous for his
severe piety, confessed her, and in accordance with
his reputation told her that she had spent her life
in selfish and frivolous luxury, had never known
God, had been sinning against Him for 26 years,
and only now had begun to do penance in these
last six hours. She listened, agreed, accepted. She
had her business to do, and that was to die as best
she . could. She managed to make a general con-
fession and then asked to be allowed to receive
Jesus Christ.
All this in the presence of the King and his
friends, the members of her household,
Montagu, the English Ambassador, and
many others. It was an age when the great
couldn’t even die in privacy. There is a
genealogical tree showing how these fan-
tastic beings were related to one another
and to the present British royal family, and
a fine reproduction of a painting of Min-
f tte which is owned by the present Duke of
Devonshire.
D.J.
Giving Hollywood Its Due
“J.D.” (B. 29/6/’32) thinks a lot of Holly-
wood’s pictures. I don’t. Some people
think that they are corrupting the
country, and others, especially those who
make money out of them, are of the con-
trary opinion. I suggest, as a way of decid-
ing the issue, which threatens to be argued
interminably, that the importation of the
products of Hollywood be prohibited alto-
gether. This country already prohibits the
importation of Chinamen, amongst other
things, and China produced a Confucius,
whereas Hollywood hasn’t produced a phili-
sopher or a poet either, or even a picture
that anybody remembers a month after he
has seen it, or would care to revive. A lot
of absurd respect is shown to these
ephemeral productions. Bored critics write
columns about fillums that wouldn’t re-
ceive a line of type if they appeared as
short stories in the “Windsor Maga-
zine” or “Fruity Stories.” That is simply
because millions go to see them; but
there are lots of things that millions of
people do, such as playing two-up, which are
not regarded as of artistic importance. If
Hollywood’s productions are really corrupt-
ing our youth, a 10-years’ total abstinence
should result in a great moral improvement.
The methods managements use to get the
millions into their absurdly overdecorated
palaces spoil the urban landscape. As I
write a black hearse with a skeleton painted
on it and a coffin on top inscribed with
the legend “Children not admitted” is car-
eering round Melbourne. Australia ought
to be able to produce all the morbidity
it requires without importing foreign grue-
someness. “On the authority of the best
American critics films like ‘The Front Page’
are painfully realistic,” says “J.D.,” and “in
gangster and bootlegging films, in films
which portray big business, the newspaper
world, the ostentatious social life led by
some Americans,” Hollywood is faithfully
holding a mirror up to America. Well, it
seems to me that the habit of looking
into other people’s mirrors is a lazy sort
of habit, and too much scrutinising of the
failings of other countries is apt to turn
a none too perfect nation into a nation of
Pharisees. Perhaps that is why the Aus-
tralian writer is denounced as a liar and a
distorter whenever he holds up, however
kindly, a mirror to Australia.
M. G. Skipper.
“J.D*” winds up the debate:—
I don’t think a lot of Hollywood’s pictures. The
average Hollywood picture seems to me as futile,
despite the high quality of much of the acting, as
the 1 average stage play used to be; and most picture
publicity is as asinine as that which was employed
years ago on behalf of crude horrors like “The
Face at the Window’’ and “Maria Martin” —the
drama in which a hanging took place in view of
the audience.
Mr. Skipper deduces that I think a lot of Holly-
wood’s pictures because when he wrote, “Hollywood
producers must remember that Spain shrinks from
divorcees who marry again,” I pointed out that
Hollywood ignores the Spanish screen market (Spain
doesn’t ‘spend as much on U.S.A. pictures as a
minor Australian State), and that screen divorcees
are often shown marrying again. Similarly, when
he wrote, “Stray from reality and you beget mon-
sters ; all the screen types are monsters,” and
instanced the screen mother, I mentioned the well-
known facts that many of Hollywood’s types are
drawn from life, and that the screen mother was
originally a stage type. It doesn’t follow that you
think a lot of a thing because you don’t care to
see nonsense written about it.
Admittedly, Hollywood hasn’t produced a Con-
fucius, and it may, as Mr. Skipper fears, be cor-
rupting our youth. But his idea of a 10-years’ ban
as a prophylactic against national corruption and a
means of saving the Commonwealth from a charge
of Pharisaism is open to many objections. Suppose
we set out to protect our young from overseas evil
in the manner suggested, is there any likelihood
that the local industry would produce a Confucius
—or so much as aLi Hung Chang or fifth-rate War
Lord ? What guarantee have we that Australian
producers would confine themselves to pictures of
a morally elevating nature? Would a sufficient
number of Australians pay to see such works, and
would they be praised, as many far from moral
Hollywood productions have been recently by such
London celebrities as “E.V.L.” (“Punch”), “C.D.”
(“Observer”), Francis Birrell (“New Statesman and
Athenaeum”) and John Grierson (“Clarion”)? And
if these eminent critics damned our pictures,
is it likely that they would be patronised by the
British public, without whose support a local film
industry couldn’t survive? Where’ are we to stop?
It would be unreasonable to ban overseas talkies
and let in plays. “The Good Fairy” seems to have
shocked a number of Sydneyites as much as the
talkies shock Mr. Skipper. What about this
“Windsor Magazine” that he complains of? It
sounds like an evil influence, too. I might mention,
in passing, that he is quite wrong about pictures
not being revived. Chaplin draws a large income
from revivals of pictures which are remembered all
over the world, not merely after months but after
many years. “The Blue Danube’’ has just been
revived at Sydney Mayfair.
The truth is Mr. Skipper doesn’t number among
his many gifts the one which is chiefly demanded
of a successful reformer. Zeal is not enough.
Examine his point about Confucius as a syllogism:
China in, say, 80 centuries produced a Confucius.
(It is said to have been as cultured 6000 years
before Christ as Rome was in the age of the
Antonines.) But Hollywood in quarter of a century
hasn’t produced a Confucius. Australia bans the
products of Confucianism; therefore it should ban
the products of Hollywood.
It doesn’t hang together anywhere, and if there
is one asset that a moral reformer needs more than
another (accuracy, of course, apart), it is the clear
head that goes with a judicial mind.
A Satchel of Books
The Tragedy of the Dardanelles, by
Edmond Delagc (The Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.),
has gone into 17 editions in France, and it
is still a best-seller there. It is understand-
able. The author isn’t a historian, who
should at any rate appear to have some-
thing of the impartiality of a Judge, but
a fervent nationalist putting the case for
France. Like most Frenchmen, who natu-
rally were Westerners, he believes the whole
campaign was a mistake.
Superb Anzacs, nimble Gurkhas, laughing Sene-
galese, sailors who fought under Gu6pratte and De
Robeck, soldiers of France and of all the counties
of old England, you! all of you, what heroes! But
to what end did you die ?
It gives an idea of the emotional and rheto-
rical style in which the whole book is writ-
ten ; one which makes it easy to read but
hard to take seriously. As Sir lan Hamil-
ton asks, in a characteristically picturesque
foreword, “To what end, in God’s name,
docs anyone die?” The translation has been
admirably done by Winifred Bay.
In Memory's Parade (Methuen; 7s. 6d.)
A. Wallis Myers, who is best known to Aus-
tralians as an authority on tennis, reviews
his journalistic life so far as it has gone.
He happened to be at Osborne when Queen
Victoria died in 1901. The end was not
expected by the outside world, but he
dropped to what was going on by one of
those pieces of subtle reasoning that make
the good news-hound. He saw the face of
Lord Clarendon flashing by at Cowes in a
closed carriage, and recalled that Clarendon
was Lord Chamberlain and that this official
has to be present when a British sovereign
dies. H'e is interesting about the political
and theatrical celebrities of Edward’s reign,
but, of course, he is best when he deals with
sport. There is a good photograph of W. G.
Grace driving at golf and an equally good
story.
In a foursome “W.G.” found himself so badly
bunkered that those of us who had gone ahead
expected only a roar of impotent rage from the
barrier. Behold a ball breaking through a spray
of sand and pitching sprucely on the green! Behind
his cover Grace had wrapped the ball in a handful
of sand and projected it without using any club!
It is all in that light, gossiping vein.
There is a complete chapter devoted to the
art of Suzanne Lenglen.
And a Little Verse
COUNSEL.
And shall we take the counsel of the old.
And bow before grey hairs and wrinkled
eyes,
And flee adventure, fortune and surprise,
And fear to stray beyond the parent-fold,
And mock our youth that clamors to be bold
And pierce the vague Unknown beyond
the skies?
And shall we stay our hand for aged sighs
Because the blood in old men’s limbs is cold ?
Shall we believe that all advice is wise
Because it comes from old and withered
lips?
For these same old men used to ride the
skies.
And brave the sea in rotting, crazy ships,
And scorn advice and laugh with bold young
eyes
At old men taking milk in feeble sips.
MAOBILAND.
CHRISTINE COMDER.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.F.D.8.: Not a glint in it... .F.H.W.:
Much too long for our use Dignan: You knocked
the bottom out of it half-way through... .P.L.S.:
The man who squeezes his typewritten lines so
close that a sub-editor’s pen can’t crawl in between
them puts a heavy handicap on his contribution.
It will get through if it’s a work of genius, no
matter what its handicaps; but if it’s just middling
—well, there are so many just-middlings... .8.W.D.:
Not worth the time you’ve evidently given it....
Ghurka: Much obliged; but space compels us to
leave the matter where “Feng-Shui” dropped it....
A.J.McI.: Hopelessly longwinded. Don’t believe any-
body in the wide world would have the patience
to read it... J.F.: Take heart; squatters’ daughters
aren’t so haughty nowadays... .M.M.H.: May be an
accurate picture, but it makes footling verse.,..
A. 0.5.: Creaks and groans like a cart in need of
axle-grease... .R.R.: No lure in it... .L.A.S.: Your
first effort. Make it your last....Le Vieux: One
tolerable verse for dramatic censors to chew on:—
They think that playwrights should pursue
A narrow path ahead,
And have for goal some cold North Pole
From whence warm wit has fled,
Where epigrams are sophistries
And Rabelais unread.
. ,0.F.: Something in it, but you stumble too
often into triteness... .H.G.: No reality in your
smugglers... .Brady’s Look-out: Set to music it
might pass in Killaloe or some such place....
The Turnip: Try it on a paper with a children’s
page... .D.M.: Stick to auctioneering... .M.C.: Too
crude and feeble for a parody... .J.0.H.: Aptly
headed “Muck”... .A.C.: “Making Good” doesn’t.
.... J.F.N.: A sonnet ought to flow; yours is all
hops, steps and jumps... .34523 N.Z.F.A.: Rejected
a little regretfully, for it’s vivid, if rough... .D. 8.:
There’s feeling in them that should yet bring you
into print.... J.A.A.: Needs better treatment....
C.D.: “The Old Fossicker” is delving among
crumpled papers... .G.D.M.: Not ill-done, but the
themes are too hackneyed... .W. 8.: Sounds like an
exercise in memory training... .R.McN.: “The
Weaver” just failed to snare a corner... .M.C.: You
have a platitudinous outlook... .D.8.0’C.: Too much
like a variation of “Believe Me, If All Those Endear-
ing Young Charms”... .P. N, Macg. and A.G.J.:
Would have been accepted in more spacious times.
....Karvah: Sounds more like an apostrophe to
Mountain Dew than to a mountain valley... .11. W.:
Too much oratory in it.... A.G.0.: A very obvious
prank... .T.J.: Humorless.... G.L.: Horace may
have won the girl but he wins you no banknotes....
R. 8.: Cyclone yarn didn’t take us by storm....
W.T.H.: A drab little story... .L.T.0.: Others have
had the same dream... .E.M.: The philanderer be-
came wearisome... .A. 8.: Sick-bed repentance occurs
too often in Action of that type... .G.C.R.: Not
strong enough... .W.A.L.: So that dreary person is
still straying into the wrong room A.J.L.: An
old way of scaring natives... .1.G.M.D.: Slight and
unoriginal... .C.C.S.: More suited for a daily....
K.C.8.: Still misses... .W.L.C.: That joker wouldn’t
raise a smile in a barber’s shop on a wet Saturday.
... .R.G.G.: Both have an air of incompleteness....
H.A.L.: You just ramble 0n.... A.C.: Too technical
for the average reader... .A.M.: Coincidence takes
a lot of swallowing-... . M.J.W.: Unpleasant subject.
B.W.H.: Says the obvious and there’s little point
in the ending... .R.S.W.: Give it to one of the
dailies... .K.J.S.: Longwinded as it stands. Get
to work on it again... .M.G.: No vacant site here
for your little hut P.T.: Arthur W. Jose wrote
under the name of “Ishmael Dare”; his book of
verses, “Sun and Cloud on River and Sea/’ was
published in 1888 A.S.: The girls sound nice
enough for a J.C.W. ballet, but they are not for this
sort of publication... .Lit. Ins. (Perth) : Thanks ; but
ft was noticed and corrected after portion of the issue
had been printed... .H. 5.8.: First we have heard
of such a theory... .R.W.: There are no literary
agents in Sydney who do the work you want done. A
list of markets is contained in “The Aust. and
N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year-Book”... .M.G.W.:
During the life of the composer and for 50 years after
his death. Copyright of “The Gondoliers,”. “The
Pirates of Penzance” and “The Mikado” expires in
1950. Sullivan died in 1900 H.8.M.: The Superb
was built in 1866 for Green’s Blackwall Line,
remained in the Australian trade until about 1890,
was then sold, and was broken up in 1901....
R.R.W.: The only trustworthy account of Lennox’s
life, written by Henry Selkirk, was published in
Yol. VI, part 5, of the Royal Australian Historical
Society’s Journal. A copy may be inspected at
the Mitchell Library, Sydney.... Beefo: Could almost
fill the paper with what send every week. Easy
writing makes dashed hard reading for the sub
Luigi: As a matter of fact, there has been a steady
exodus of Italians during the slump. For instance,
284 persons arrived in Westralia from Italy and
913 departed for Italy last year....L. of L.: Zora
Cross is a native of Brisbane.... Berra: Kingsmill.
He was M.L.A. for Pilbarra in 1897; Lynch did
not arrive in the Westralian Assembly till 1904.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.J.: Judging from dim pencil sketches sent, you
belong to the Eyewreckers’ Union. .. .Bung: Quaint,
but unsuitable... .S.R.: Fell on stony ground....
W.K.: Good in patches; but you can do better....
J.F.: 111-directed labor... .C.P.A.: Tired of that
weeping washerwoman. She floods the office, every
time she visits u5....E.M.: You haven’t skill enough.
. ...8.5.W.: Not badly drawn, but you need a
brighter jest... .D.T.: The joke is dying on its
feet and the breath of life never entered the draw-
ing.... J. A.: A rough trio... .F.M.S.: You’ve a
long way to g 0... .W.H.G.: Nothing like him....
P.P.: Stale gag; ragged drawing H.R.C.: Pub
joke tame; the other’s a chestnut... .8.D.: No
use sending in old pantomime wheezes. .. .S.E.C.:
Fair; training should help you considerably....
M. J.: Not good enough to print nor bad enough to
curse... .R.E.M.: Returning Bill the 800zer....
J.F.K.: A mouldy idea F.E.C.: Quite promising.
. ...T.A.A.: Everything out of proportion... .R.U.:
Stiff... .R.W.S.: Dialect joke too obscure... .L.T.:
Dreary gag and ordinary drawing... .K.M.: What is
it all about?.. . .N. 8.: Too many black patches
in it... J.G.: Crude work, as yet.. .K.C.W.: Slipshod.
... . M.S.: An old “Hop” drawing brought up to date.


e
c £/vol Jftekmi
A
u
■« ft:ft*
«
s
Hi
r
.• xtm
ftft:
■ r m m
m
v, i
r
ftftft
■
■
m
■■
■ ■
HE I -ft.
SSB~j
-ft ■. -ft ft -ft .ft
* * - ft. - . .ft
I
mm i
asr
r.'
■v; - \
M
HI
igSilS
■
**"*" , .~ ***-■■ 1
:
m
m
ftft
KBi
ft
' ■■ ■
■
sßpjfegL ft';;'ft-ftftftgft :
■
■■ >
fttfff ' ft§
■* - * 'l.S*s* -sJ*--CV
ss
ft
■,
• i v• .
i:;- ft 'ft, ft'-:;
- ■ ~ "ftftft.
•ftft ~. . - i
.ft HH ftftft,ft-
ftft
,';:. ft' ftft ft:: gsB &sjft.: )#S % <&* ■ ft
- ftT*
'ft-;':
ftft-: ft.
***"'■#&
Sfc.
-• ‘
■ ft,.
• ft..
. '
t
'ft o, - "
è


The Bulletin
Vol. 53 No. 2736.
July 20, 1932.
NOT OVERLOADED—MERELY UNDER-NOURISHED.
THE POLITICIAN: “We really ought to do something for this pcor animal.”
MORTGAGEE: “Yes. I think some of those other donkeys should give it some of their carrots."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE BANKRUPT GRAZIER.
At a large meeting of graziers at Gunnedah,
one of the centres of the N. S. Wales wool-
growing business, it was the other day
agreed “that the Commonwealth and State
Governments should immediately appoint
commissions with full powers to investigate
and submit plans to save the wool industry
of Australia.” It was declared, as it has
been declared a thousand times elsewhere,
that “a struggle was taking place for the
very existence of the industry,” and that
“the producers had now passed through
three years in which the wool had been
sold below cost.” The chairman of this
meeting, one of the larger growers in N. S.
Wales, produced figures of his own experi-
ence :
For the 1931 general shearing I find that the cost
per bale of wool pack, shearing and carriage to
rail was £1 7s. 6d. The cost of railage, selling
charges, insurance and Sydney-end cartage was £1
4s. 2d. per bale, making a total of £2 11s. Bd.
If this amount is deducted from our last known
selling average of £6 11s. 3d., there is a balance
of £3 19s. 7d. per bale, which would be available
for 12 months’ working expenses. The absurdity
of the position is of course apparent. Wages as a
first charge would consume nearly, if not all, of
the amount, leaving nothing for the payment of
interest, taxes, rates, insurances, repairs, stores,
dipping, crutching or other necessary stock work,
rabbit, blowfly and other pest destruction, in addi-
tion to innumerable other items, apart from personal
living expenses or emoluments, and excluding
altogether any return on the capital invested.
That discloses a very serious position. In
1928-29, the last year before the crash, the
exports of Australia reached £144,850,452.
Of this total wool accounted for £61,612,995,
or nearly 43 p.c.; and it had been much
greater than that in some previous years.
There has been beyond all question a
shocking fall in wool values. Since 1924-25
the movement on the Sydney market is
shown by this table of average prices per
pound of greasy wool, with the top price
for each season:—•
Average. Top Price.
1924- 25.5 d. 52-}d.
1925- 16.7 d. 59d.
1926- 16.3 d. 40fd.
1927- 19.5 d. 41d.
1928- 16.5 d. 47d.
1929- 10.5 d. 37-id.
1930- 8.7 d. Slid.
1931- 8.3 d. 38id.
But we must go back further than that to
get a true perspective. For the whole
period 1896-1906 the average for greasy wool
was no more than 8kl.; for the period from
1906 to 1915-16 it was 9J.d. Actually, there-
fore, the average price for the past three
years has been about the average price
for the 20 years prior to the war sales.
During the past year or two there has been
a tendency to assume that we are in the
trough of an unexampled depression, and
that normal conditions were those of 1924-
29. So far as wool is concerned, however,
prices have been lower over a considerable
range of years than they are now. Between
1890 and 1899 the average never reached
Bd. for any year. On these figures there
is no reason for declaring that what may
be called the true price—the price to be
relied on for the future—is the average of
1924-29 rather than of the 20 years prior
to the war.
But there is the general movement in
price levels to be taken into account. And
here it is possible to reach conclusions that
are a shade more cheerful. In Australian
official statistics the average price for the
year 1911 is taken as the base in most index
tables; and in 1911 the average price of
greasy wool per pound was 8.6 d. But,
whereas the Sydney price /or all commodi-
ties (= 100 in 1911) has moved up to 154
this year, the price of wool has gone down
to 92 this year. Here, plainly, there is some-
thing very wrong. Professor Brigden, in his
“Economic News,” presents some figures at
another angle. He takes 1926-27 average
prices as a base (= 100) and shows that,
whereas between that year and 1930-31 Aus-
tralian export prices fell from 100 to 57,
Australian import prices fell only from 100
to 82. The question that calls for answer
is, How is it that Australian exports—
wodl and wheat especially—have suffered in
price so much more than imports to Aus-
tralia? (Import prices are landed cost
free of duty;, export prices include the
exchange premiums.)
There is a clear explanation, so far as
wheat is concerned. The increase of chemical
and mechanical aids to farming has been
one of several factors in an enormous ex-
pansion both of the area under crop and
of the harvest—such an expansion that there
is still a great unconsumed carry-over. But
the statistical position of wool is thoroughly
good. There might be a reason why wool
should shrink in value as much as the
average, though even that is doubtful; there
seems to be none at all why it should
shrink, as it has done, much more than the
average. A possible explanation is that it
is not as well handled as most commodi-
ties; and that is certainly a matter which
calls for investigation.
Already on this point there has been some
inquiry. John Higgins, who was chairman
of Bawra, put forward a scheme for the
stabilisation of wool values, which was
rejected by the governing bodies of the
societies which have been formed to pro-
tect graziers’ interests. It may be a sound
scheme or it may be chimerical; but, at any
rate, the question still awaits an answer:
Why has wopl suffered in price so much
more than the average, notwithstanding
that its statistical position is so sound and
notwithstanding that no effective substitute
has been developed? That there is no effec-
tive substitute seems to be conclusively
proved by the fact that woollen goods are
in great demand at prices which simply
stagger the original producer.
But there are other matters in connection
with the industry which call for inquiry.
We have seen what tremendous variations
there are in the price. Professor Shann
shows that in 1884 it was 10.3 d. per pound
and in 1894, 6.1 d.; by 1907 it was back to
10.7 d., and by 1911-12 it was down again
to 8.7 d.; in 1921-22 it was 13.1 d. and by
1924-25 it was up to 25.2 d., to fall to 17.7 d.
in the following year. The average for the
10 years 1920-29 was 18.8 d.; the Sydney
average for the past three years has been
just under one-half of that. If we cannot
stop these excessive fluctuations, cannot
something be done to stop some of their
evil effects? In a good part of the hectic
period between 1923 and 1929 it was pos-
sible for a grazier to make £1 per head
from his sheep in a year; and sheep pro-
perties changed hands at prices which they
should never have approached. The banks,
to do them justice, offered some resistance
to advances on these extravagant valua-
tions; but excessive advances were made,
and are responsible for a great deal of the
distress in the industry to-day. The matter
for inquiry here is whether any means are
practicable to prevent excessive advances
upon grazing—and wheat-growing—proper-
ties. It may even be necessary to consider
whether banks should not be excluded from
this class of mortgage business. It is certain
that pressure is put upon banks to make
advances beyond what they feel ought to
be made; they can only refuse them at the
risk of being shut out from more legitimate
banking business.
And these fluctuations do more than leave
the grazier struggling with a crushing load
of interest. They leave him struggling, too,
with excessive freights, with excessive labor
costs, with excessive commissions. No
section of the community is, as a rule, more
willing than the grazier to share good
fortune with those with whom it has deal-
ings. He has therefore submitted to rail-
way freights in good times which have
been preposterous in bad ones. Recent
rate books (1931) showed that whereas a
ton of wheat was carried 100 miles on the
Victorian railways for 10s. 3d., on those
of N. S. Wales for 12s. (truck lots) and of
the Commonwealth for 10s. Id., a ton of
greasy wool cost 50s. 3d., 41s. Bd. and 475.
Id. respectively; in truck loads these rail-
ways would carry iron ore, pig or scrap for
125., 6s. sd. and 12s. Indeed; almost every
service for which this industry has to pay
is paid for on the basis of wool at high
prices. This at least is a matter which can
be dealt with without waiting for any com-
mission.
But no rectification of costs will cover
the most important point of all—whether
the world is paying us a fair thing for this
highly superior wool of ours, and whether
a better marketing system is not possible.
Those who say they have gone into the
whole matter and can see no room for im-
provement are surely called upon to ex-
plain how it is that this wool, which is
not in excessive supply and is in keen
demand—as proved by the prices for the
manufactured and semi-manufactured article
—should have suffered so much more than
the average loss of value.
BROADCASTING.
Though the new Commission has had
charge of the broadcasting from national
or “A” stations for less than a month, there
is already a definite improvement in the
quality of the service. For the most part
wireless in Australia had just “growed up.”
Before it was realised how well the new-
comer might serve the public as entertainer
and educator, Australia fortunately had be-
come the home of a company which ranked
with the world’s leaders in developing the
new science. In technique therefore this
country has been among the most progres-
sive ; it has been in the handling of the
new agency—in its application to practical
purposes—that we have fallen short.
And yet not so short as we might have
fallen. Fortunately, the cinematograph
had just taught the world a lesson; a
thing which might have been of tremendous
educational value, raising the tone of the
world, was permitted to fall into the hands
of a group of mostly ignorant and supremely
vulgar adventurers, who prostituted the in-
vention to the lowest kind of money-
making; and naturally they gathered around
them, for the most part, a poor type of
exhibitors. Something has been done to
improve the picture show in these last few
years; but it still is smudged with the dirt
in which it was brought up.
Wireless was at least saved from that.
In the beginning it was a means of com-
municating between ships at sea and the
coast; presently it was seen to offer a
means of communicating between sending
stations and every dwelling in the country.
The speed with which the domestic wireless
set was carried towards perfection was one
of the miracles of the age—though truly
one does not know where and what per-
fection is in this matter. Then the ques-
tion of finance had to be answered. One
could collect a fee for a personal message
transmitted by air and delivered in writing ;
but how could a station carry on which
only broadcasted messages to be picked up
by any person with a receiving set? Luckily
the Government had come into the business
early, seeing in it a possible competitor
with its telegraphs and telephones; but,
instead of taking a monopoly of installing
sets, it resolved upon a flat-rate license
fee, from which the stations were subsi-
dised. Naturally out of the licensing of
sets and the State support of stations sprang
a demand for control over the matter to
be broadcasted.
Meantime a new type of station had
come into existence —either itself broad-
casting or buying a transmission service. In
the beginning these were chiefly propagan-
dist centres, and still largely are—Sydney
has a station set up in the first days of
broadcasting by the Theosophists, with
others controlled by the Council of
Churches, the Roman Catholic Church and
the Trades Hall. So far as the State is
concerned its business with these is to
license them, and fix their “wave lengths”
—this with a view to avoid interference
one with the others. The advertising can-
vasser soqn showed how, while doing all
the propaganda required of them, they
could be made to pay. Thus there grew
up side by side the “A” services, liberally
subsidised out of the license fees and de-
voted wholly to entertainment and instruc-
tion, and the “B” services, giving such enter-
tainment and instruction as they judged
their listeners called for and they themselves
could supply, and financed chiefly by adver-
tisements sandwiched in between foxtrots or
the story of the latest “hike.” The time came
when the advertisements were so profitable
that it was doubtful whether the programmes
of the “B” stations were not better than those
of the subsidised national outfits. At this
point the Federal Government decided,
with almost universal approval, that a
change in the organisation was called for.
The “B” stations were left alone; the “A”
or national stations were passed over to a
Commission, with the Postal Department
responsible on the technical side. There
are 12 of these transmitting stations, all but
two owned by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, and. eight more will be required.
The Commission was obviously chosen
with a view to a service of higher quality
than any hitherto offered. The Govern-
ment chose from Sydney and Melbourne, as
chairman and vice-chairman, two of those
rare birds, artists who have successfully
handled big business; and to these they
added the literary vice-chancellor of Sydney
University, the head of the Sydney Con-
servatory of Music and a representative
of women’s cultural interests. With fairly
ample means at their disposal they may
create that national orchestra which Ver-
brugghen almost succeeded in establishing.
Meantime they have done the best the
short notice has allowed by broadcasting the
concerts of John Brownlee and Moiseiwitsch
and a complete grand opera; and it is
already made plain that on the literary and
educational side a policy of like quality is
being framed.
No doubt there are those who will prefer
the rubbish that has been too freely poured
out over the air. If they want it, and it
is innocuous, they are entitled to get it,
and we, may be sure will get it so long
as advertisers are prepared to pay for giving
it to them. But, if things go as they pro-
mise, the public which wants quality in its
entertainment will be able to get that, too.
We are only a handful of people in Aus-
tralia, after all, our few centres of popu-
lation widely divided, so that we have
captured great artists and great lecturers
and public speakers rarely and with much
difficulty. It seems by no means unlikely
that the Broadcasting Commission will be
able to influence artists and public speakers
whom the entrepreneurs alone could never
persuade this way.
And the Commission has it in its power
to do a greater service even than this for
Australia; it can give country dwellers an
opportunity, at the cost of a few shillings
a year, to hear all those who come to
Australia or are in Australia and are best
worth hearing. One of the great curses
of our land is that so large a proportion
of the people are huddled in three or four
coastal cities. Anything we can do to make
life away from those few centres more
attractive has a high national value. The
telephone and the motor-car have done
much to break down the old isolation of
the man and woman on the land; it seems
not too much to say that broadcasting,
with a Commission such as this one appears
to be in charge of the programmes, may
be a greater influence than either of these.
THESE LAND ANNUITIES.
W hat are these land annuities which the
Government of the Irish Free State
refused to pay? Has Mr. De Valera a case?
Mr. Lang’s newspaper is sure he has. When
‘‘the patriot De Valera” defined his atti-
tude Mr. Lang’s newspaper congratulated
him on having “ignored the red herring of
the comparatively inconsequential Oath of
Allegiance and tackled the real issue,
Money—met the bankers on their own
ground.” Still, as this newspaper was
equally sure that Lang was Right when he
defaulted in payment of interest on British
loans, and even more exuberant when it
pictured the discomfiture of “the bankers”
on that occasion, its championship fails to
carry conviction.
The fundamental fact of the matter is
that successive British Governments from
1881 onwards advanced and guaranteed
immense sums to enable the Irish tenant-
farmers to buy out the old landlords.
Under the Balfour Act of 1891 alone
£30,000,000 was provided for this purpose,
and under the Land Act of 1896, as the
sober “Encyclopsedia Britannica” records,
“the interests of the tenant were so care-
fully guarded that the prices obtainable
were ruinous to the vendor unless he had
other resources.” The Wyndham Land Pur-
chase Act of 1903 “gave the tenants a
material reduction,” and to meet the case of
landlords who protested that if they had
to sell at the Irish Land Commission’s
price it would ruin them, “a bonus of 12
p.c. on the purchase-money was granted
to vendors from funds provided by Parlia-
ment.” By virtue of another piece of legis-
lation “this percentage became the private
property of tenants-for-life on settled
estates”; and the conversion of tenants into
freeholders went on more rapidly than ever.
In effect, a large proportion of the pur-
chasers, unlike our soldier-settlers, became
possessed of cheap land at a low rate of
interest. During the war years, when the
Oppressor paid high prices for farm produce,
the finest peasantry in Europe was unques-
tionably the most prosperous, and the land-
purchase debt was substantially reduced.
Nevertheless, £76,000,000 is still owing, and
there is an annual charge of £3,000,000 —
otherwise the annuities; it is roughly
about half of what the tenants were obliged
to pay the rentlords in a typical pre-
purchase year. Before the Free State
arrived, the £3,000,000 was collected by the
Land Commission and paid into a British
fund created for the service of the special
stock raised to finance sales. An early Act
of the Free State Parliament made the
Minister of Finance, and not the Land
Commission, responsible for the payments
into this fund. A dispute arose as to
whether the Free State Government had
the right to deduct income tax, but the
obligations were duly met. It was reserved
for Mr. De Valera to repudiate them, and
to demand the return of £30,000,000 handed
over by the Cosgrave Government; and to
“withhold” other amounts owing—Royal
Irish Constabulary and Judges’ pensions,
interest on telegraph and railway loans and
the like—for good measure.
It has been urged (though not by Mr.
De Valera, who in his character of avenger
of the wrongs of Ireland would scorn to
stoop to any such argument) that the annui-
ties have been waived in the case of Ulster;
and this is a fact. Exemption from the
annuities, though not from other debt bur-
dens. was offered to both divisions of the
country in the Government of Ireland Act,
1920, which was accepted by the North
and rejected by the South. Northern Ire-
land was actually constituted under the
Government of Ireland Act, 1920. And®
as the “Statesman’s Year-Book” puts it,
“the bulk of its taxation is imposed and
collected by the Imperial authorities, who
make certain deductions —representing a
contribution towards Imperial liabilities and
expenditure, and the net cost to the Im-
perial Exchequer of Northern Irish ser-
vices, 'reserved’ to the Imperial Parliament
—and remit the balance to the Northern
Irish Exchequer.” On the other hand, the
Free State levies no tax for Imperial pur-
poses, and, though defended by the
British Navy, makes no contribution
towards Imperial expenditure. It was pro-
vided in the Treaty that it should “assume
liability for the service of the public debt
of the United Kingdom as existing at the
date hereof (December 6, 1921), and
towards the payment of war pensions as
existing at that date, in such proportion
as may be fair and 'equitable, having regard
to any just claims on the part of Ireland
by way of set-off or counterclaim”; but
this article was a dead letter from the be-
ginning, and it was formally abandoned in
1925. This gift, to the Free State was
estimated at £150,000,000 or thereabouts.
The MacDonald-Baldwin Government has
said, in effect, that Britain’s capacity for
making such presents has been exhausted,
and that if De Valera won’t pay the annui-
ties it will get the equivalent by taxing
Free State produce, of which £34,943,700
worth entered Britain and Northern Ireland
in 1931, other countries taking a mere
£1,332,400 worth. A war of tariffs was to
have begun on Friday, but when Friday
came Mr. De Valera, was in London trying
to avert it, the Free State farmer having
made it plain that he would prefer not to
be ruined by a brooding fanatic who has
hitherto persisted in living in the past.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sugar Tangle.
Senator McLachlan, Acting-Attorney-Gen-
eral, has gone to Queensland to see if any-
thing can be done towards getting a modi-
fication of the sugar agreement. All over
the world sugar prices have crashed—
except in Australia. Here a crash has been
saved by an agreement between the Com-
monwealth and the Queensland Govern-
ment, as a result of which we are paying
about double the average European price.
The agreement, made' in 1931 for three
years, fixed £27 as the price of raw sugar
for home consumption; the surplus was
sold abroad last year for £8 ss. The sugar
sold for £8 ss. cost, like the rest, something
between £lB and £22 to produce. The
high price in excess of production costs
charged to the Australian consumer is for
the purpose of enabling the surplus to be
produced and sold. If it were not pro-
duced and sold, it would have been pos-
sible to charge the Australian consumer
something like three millions less last year,
and an average of over two millions p.a.
less for the previous four years.
Why then is it produced and sold? And
here we get into the tangle. Sugar was one
of the very scarce commodities during the
war; in Europe saccharine was pretty
generally used instead. Down to that time
Australia had not regularly produced
enough for its own requirements. The
pre-war average for Queensland was about
185,000 tons. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment during the war was driven to import
largely; and prices continued to rise—to
£2l per ton for raws. A Commission re-
commended that for the encouragement of
the industry the price should be lifted to
£22 per ton. Then Mr. Hughes, Prime Min-
ister at the time, came on the scene; and he
was thinking only in millions. He scorned
the idea of an increase of £1 per ton; put
it up £9 6s. Bd., he said, and make Aus-
tralia certain of having enough sugar
always, and incidentally fill the empty,
unprotected North. But Mr. Hughes always
forgot something. What he forgot this
time was to provide a market for the in-
evitable surplus. He might lift the price
of refined sugar at home from 3kl. to fid.;
but he could not do it abroad. From Ihe
pre-war average of 185,000 tons there was
a growth to 605,000 tons last year, just
upon twice too much for our own needs,
notwithstanding that a system of licensing
had been established to limit the area under
crop. And, outside, the world was almost
buried under a tremendous over-production
of black-grown sugar.
Senator McLachlan may show that the
whole thing is w r rong—that we should not
have such a surplus for export. But it
was at the Commonwealth’s call that the
business was so extended. Who, then, ought
to pay for the grandiose schemes of the
Prime Minister of the day? The men who
listened to him, or the country in whose
name he spoke?
The Commonwealth is under an obliga-
tion not to deal unfair])’ by these men who
did what the Government urged and aided
them to do; at the same time it cannot con-
tinue to require its people to pay a price
far greater than sugar can be grown for on
available lands. If men paid high prices for
land with large areas of equally good land
handy, they committed a folly which they
must not ask others to suffer for. And if
men occupying poor lands used them for a
purpose for which other lands were found
to be more suitable, they can only be
sympathised with—they cannot be compen-
sated.
It ought to be made clear to the growers
of Queensland that some such view is taken
by the Government. And because of it—
because it means some large sacrifices
ahead—the less said about cutting down
their benefits under the present agreement
the better. Or, if the benefits are substan-
tially cut, it should be on an undertaking
that nothing further will be done until,
say, three years after the expiry of the
present agreement.
*
A Few Factory Figures.
In 1931 South Australian manufacturers
turned out just under 20 millions’ worth of
goods (10 millions less than in 1930 and
15|- millions less than in 1928). Gross pro-
duction was equal to £795 per employee,
£ll9 less than in 1930. Value added to
the raw materials in manufacture was £3OB
per employee; 60.1 p.c. of that represented
the employee’s wages. The average w’age
was £lB6 p.a., compared with £2lO in 1930
and £215 in 1928.
Out of each £lOO paid by the public for
S. Aus. goods (wholesale) last year, £23
6s. 7d. went into the pockets of the men
employed in making them. In other words,
every £2O spent meant, on the average, a
week’s work for somebody—in locally-spun
and -woven woollens it probably represented
a great deal more. Nor were the wages
figures for the year at all exceptional. The
following figures show where each £lOO
went during the past five years:—
Administration
Materials. Fuel. Wages. and Profit.
1927.. £59 6 10 £3 12 10 £23 IS 10 £l3 1 6
1928.. 58 4 0 314 6 24 6 0 13 15 6
1929.. 58 19 10 313 9 23 17 3 13 9 2
1930.. 59 15 7. 4 0 2 22 19 7 13 4 8
1931.. 57 2 3 4 2 2 23 6 7 15 9 0
Where the raw materials used are Aus-
tralian, the employment given locally and
money circulated is much greater than in-
dicated; the wages paid in growing wool,
mining for iron, coal, etc., are classified
tinder primary industries.
Chief products to feel the pinch (com-
parisons are with 1927) were motor-bodies
(4923, down 90.8 p.c.), bricks (6,950,000,
down 93 p.c.), beer (3,916,000ga1., 40 p.c.),
wine (10,131,000ga1., 35 p.c.), brandy and
spirits (1,172,000ga1., 25.6 p.c.), gas (1,327.000
thousands, 9.6 p.c.), electricity (132,600
thousands of units, 6 p.c.), boots and shoes
(313,000 pairs, 30.6 p.c.), preserved fruit
(4,240,0001 b., 41.5 p.c.), fertiliser (151,847
tons, 11.4 p.c.). On the one hand the plant
that produced the greater quantities is still
there; and the workmen are available. On
the other, the people want boots and homes
(to leave the beer and motor-bodies out);
and the farmer never required fertiliser so
much. Truly this depression is a great
anomaly.
: ♦
Cold Feet Already.
Langism had to be beaten. If it had
lasted much longer there would have been
an almighty crash, in which blood might
have been shed. Realising this, and sick
of the stench of corruption, plain men and
women rejected it. But they turned with
no special enthusiasm to the U.A.P., pre-
viously the Nationalists, and first impres-
sions of the Government in which the
U.A.P. is the predominant partner is that
its main, object is to make itself “popular”
by taking the line of least resistance. With
a 1931-32 deficit of millions it has
started with 15 Ministers, each having a
private secretary, and it announces that
“there are to be no more salary reductions
in the civil service.” It is inventing ex-
cuses for continuing the abominable Lang
lottery, which the Premier himself opposed
when it was projected. It has reverted to
the exploded and ruinous policy of reliev-
ing unemployment by borrowing for
“works”—“works” which will not add one
penny to the wealth of the country. There
has been a change of name but no evident
change of heart.
The Government has shown contemptible
weakness in the matter of the New Guard.
It has become the fashion to decry that
bodj'-, whose leader has drifted into the
deplorable habit of talking too much; but
many of those who decry if, would have
been glad of its protection if what they
dreaded two or three months ago had come
to pass. Anyway, it does not become pro-
minent members of the U.A.P. to sneer.
At a time of great public excitement, when
Lang was setting an example of lawlessness,
eight young men of the New Guard raided
the house of the Moscow pilgrim Garden,
who, whatever his recent manoeuvres in the
political field, has long been notorious for
advocacy of “the Revolution,” which, in
his own insulting expression, has “stepped
on the stage in Australia,” and for associa-
tion with revolutionary strikes in which
violence was employed. The young men
were arrested—they virtually gave them-
selves up—and Mr. Weaver, the present
Minister of Works and Health, constituted
himself their champion. He declared in
Parliament that they were the victims of
a “frame-up.” The charges he made on
that occasion have neither been substanti-
ated nor withdrawn. A Royal Commission
was promised; then “a full Ministerial
statement.” Neither has been forthcoming.
Meanwhile, owing to a variety of cir-
cumstances, the young Netv Guardsmen
Were dealt with in a fashion which would
seem grotesque if it were not a serious
matter for the sufferers. All being in the
same boat, all pleaded guilty to the same
charges of assault. Six of them were sen-
tenced to three months’ imprisonment with
hard labor. The seventh got a month.
The eighth, whose appeal was heard after
his companions had been in Long Bay
for four weeks, was released under bond
and did not spend a day in gaol. There-
upon it was given out that the Gov-
ernment would take the other sentences
into consideration, and U.A.P. newspapers,
in apparently inspired communications, re-
ported that the imprisoned men were to
be let out. At this, two of the Labor
papers raised the ciy that liberation would
be an outrage, and “the w r orkers” would
never stand it. The Government’s heart
dropped to its boots. It shiveringly an-
nounced that the six would have to serve
their three months’ hard while their mate
went scot free.
It was the fatal belief of the National-
ists that their mission in politics was to
resemble “the good old Labor party” in
everything except courage. “The good old
Labor party,” blithered Mr. Bruce when
Archdale Parkhill, the present Minister for
the Interior, was a candidate for Parlia-
ment —“7 would have belonged to that good
old Labor party.” If the U.A.P. is like-
wise going to be a feeble imitation of “the
good old Labor party,” God help it and
the country! Courage it must show or
N. S. Wales will have no further use for
it at the end of three years—if it should
last that long. If it fails on the score of
courage, the defaulters will come backhand
the conversion of Parliament into a crude
machine for the redistribution of wealth
will begin again.'
• ♦
Is This Profiteering?
From a correspondent in Victoria: —
The Vic. country town in which I live has a
population of SOOO, and there is a big: rural popu-
lation adjoining. Bread here is lOd. the 41b. loaf
cash, Is. booked. In smaller centres and scattered
areas in the same district, bread is sold at Sd. and
Od. By request, our Mayor called a public meeting
to discuss the priee-of-bread question. A committee
was formed and vested with authority to negotiate
with the local bakers and take whatever action was
considered necessary to secure a reduction in price
of bread. The committee unsuccessfully endeavored
to meet the local Master Bakers’ Union in con-
ference. It was then arranged that a baker from a
neighboring town should deliver bread in our town
at 9d. per loaf cash; he was guaranteed 200 cus-
tomers to start with. On the day previous to that
on which he was to start delivery, he received two
letters (produced to the committee), notifying him
that if he reduced the price in the larger centre, no
further supplies of flour would be available to him.
The baker capitulated. Although not a believer in
State enterprises, in view of past ghastly failures,
I do think that a State flour-mill would prevent a
necessary part of the people’s food from being
exploited by a few greedy men in a time of depres-
sion.
This matter should have—and doubtless
will have—the attention of the State’s law
officers. If what has been done is within
the law, then, assuming the facts are _ as
stated, it should be promptly put outside
the law, seeing that it is an attempt to
defeat the purpose and policy of the Gov-
ernments which are striving to reduce the
cost of living. If it- is not within the
law, then the course to be pursued is
obvious. This is not the time when profit-
eering can be given any quarter.
—-— +
The Stinking-fish Merchant.
It says a great deal for the forcefulness
of Mr. Davidson, general manager of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, and the assistance
he lias been able to get from the “S. M.
Herald,” that the matter of raising the rate
of exchange commands so much attention
in Sydney while in other cities it is mostly
thrust aside as merely another attempt at
inflation. Apparently the same forceful
personality was responsible for the start-
ling inclusion of a higher exchange rate
in the platform of the new Premier of
N. S. Wales; and since then efforts have
been made to persuade the Commonwealth
Government to fall into line and order the
Board of the Commonwealth Bank to further
depreciate our currency. Fortunately Mr.
Lyons knows how narrowly the Common-
wealth escaped being committed to inflation
in the days when Mr. Theodore reigned
at the Treasury. He stood firm, therefore,
and said his Government would have no
political interference with the currency.
Mr. Davidson was able to break away
from the other banks 18 months ago and
put up the rate in two movements to 130;
and ever since then we have been asked
to imagine what would have become of the
exporting industries if this step had not
been taken. Neither Mr. Davidson nor
anybody else knows; nor does anybody
know what effects the movement is yet to
have upon these industries and Australia.
Only this is certain: although the men in
control of other banks are probably as
deeply concerned about the primary indus-
tries as Mr. Davidson is, he can get hardly
another to join him. The Board of the
Commonwealth Bank made its own views
quite clear by lowering the rate recently
to 125; and the banks in New Zealand
have shown themselves his uncompromising
opponents.
Admittedly the position is difficult, be-
cause of the primary industries’ need of
all the help we can give them. The trouble
lies in the possible reactions. The funda-
mental fact is that, no matter how high
the exchange rate, we do not get one
farthing more from those to whom we sell
our goods. The question is whether we are
not getting less from buyers than we would
if there was no exchange premium. A man
is buying a house from an agent who is
being allowed a large bonus if he can make
a sale. If that fact is known to the buyer,
will he not, in nine cases out of ten, offer a
lower price than he would if he did not have
that knowledge? It is a matter for serious
consideration, then, whether the premium
is not actually holding down the price
of ■wool.
But if the overseas buyer does not thus,
in effect, share in the premium, it is certain
that Be does not pay any of it. That
payment is made by people who have bills
to meet on the other side —Governments
and other bodies with interest to pay, and
importers. Either the payment they make,
is being passed on to the public, including
the primary producers, or it is being bor-
rowed and will be passed on, with interest,
later. And it will not help our borrowing
to cry to the world that our currency is
a poor, depreciated thing and ought to be
fetching still less in other currencies. Even
the barrowman knows better than to cry
stinking fish.
The primary producer is being told he
gets the premium. He could get it (1) if
the buyer paid him as much as he would if
there were no premium, and (2) if he did
not have to paj r in the same depreciated
currency as he was paid in. The moment
that somebody notices that the currency is
depreciated and hence demands a higher
price, the primary producer loses his ad-
vantage. That happens always with infla-
tion of every kind. It puts money into
your pocket only so long as you can get
paid at one rate and pay out in another.
That is why, when inflation starts, it almost
inevitably goes on. The premium to-day is
125. As soon as the benefit of that is
lost (as it has been largely lost with us
already) it must go up to 130; as soon as
the benefit of that is lost, it must go up
to 150. It took two years to halve the
value of German money; it took two
months to halve it again; it took less than
two weeks to repeat the same process.
Inflation as a means of saving the primary
producer is not to be trusted. It brings
benefits, but they are temporary, and it
has very nasty after-effects. Reduction of
costs is the one sure remedy for his ills
in our own hands; increase and stabilisa-
tion of prices is our supreme need, but
that can come only from international
action.
♦
The Mystery of Income Tax.
In olden days knowledge on any subject
was made very much of a mystery and
jealously guarded by its possessors. It is on
record that Descartes, travelling in Hol-
land. saw an advertisement posted up offer-
ing a prize for a solution of a mathematical
problem. Descartes could read the figures
but not the words, so he asked a Dutch
university professor to translate it for him.
The Dutchman peered at him suspiciously
and said he would furnish a translation if
Descartes would first solve the problem.
The attitude of that erudite Dutchman
is very much that of the various taxation
departments of Australia and of the Federal
Taxation Department in particular. The
only clue the average citizen, who hasn’t
ready access to the Statutes, can find to
the methods adopted by the Federal Tax-
ation pundits of assessing the savagely
heavy imposts they order him to pay is
tucked away in a “Commonwealth Year
Book” of 17 years ago. That tome invites
the citizen to consider algebraic formula
which, in one of the four examples given,
involves seven divisions, six multiplications,
four additions, four subtractions, one squar-
ing, four cubings, two elevations to the
sixth pow T er and two to the ninth, and
juggles with such eccentric numbers as
.03, .13, 5533.3 and 12.583. As the Lord
alone knows what Parliament and the Tax
Commissioner between them have done to
the equation since 1915, even Einstein, if
he were an Australian citizen, would have
to accept with the calmness of despair an
assessment rating him at 10.7543921 d. in the
£ and demanding £35 11s. 4-kl.
Furthermore, the method of assessing this
taxation js not solely a matter for Parlia-
ment. The Commissioner takes a hand.
According to the “S. M. Herald,” which
records a statement by the Deputy-Com-
missioner for N. S. Wales, the Commis-
sioner on October 23, 1931, nearly three
months after most returns had been made,
“issued instructions” that deductions for
unemployment relief tax could be made.
As he didn’t circularise the taxpayers to
that effect, a lot of them didn’t know about
it. All that they did know, if they were 1
assiduous and diligent newspaper readers,
was that, according to the law, which hasn’t
been amended to date, there was no pro-
vision for such deductions. “It is under-
stood,” concludes, the “Herald’s” report of
the matter, “that deductions which should
have been made but were not made involve
thousands of pounds.” It is impossible,
since all the rulings of the Commissioner
are known to the Taxation Department
alone, to compute how much taxpayers, in
one way or another, have been made to
overpay through their ignorance of things
carefully hidden, but it looks like an even-
money bet that most of Mr. Lyons’s sur-
plus would disappear if everybody got the
advantage of all the quirks and twists in
the labyrinthine taxation system. It seems
high time it was straightened out and made
understandable.
- -♦
Too Many Sclioolmarms?
“Garry”: The headmistress of a big girls’
school in England, a Miss Charlotte Cow-
droy, has stirred up a question which has
long cried for agitation by declaring that
boys taught by women are more likely to
become criminals than are those taught by
men. It isn’t necessary to lay the blame
for criminality at the door of the school-
marm to prove that she shouldn’t be
allowed to teach boys who have passed
out of the infant class. As every male
who has been tutored by a woman teacher
knows, the lady’s disciplinary powers are
impaired by her almost unconquerable
disposition to make pets. The school-
marm’s pet is encouraged to be a sneak
and a hypocrite, and when he gets under
a male pedagogue, if he is lucky enough
to strike one, lie wishes for a while that
wolves had stolen him from the cradle at
birth. With proper treatment he recovers
and becomes a normal male citizen.
Australia, like other countries, possibly
because the teaching job appeals more to
the female nature than the male, finds,
whenever it takes a count, that women
teachers in its State schools greatly out-
number the men. In N. S. Wales the pro-
portion is roughly seven women to five
men; in Victoria, 12 women to 7
men; in Queensland, 23 to 19; in
S.A., 22 to 14; in Westralia, two to one;
in Tas.. nearly three to one—in the island
State there are 1025 schoolmarms and only
367 male teachers. The position seems
likely to become accentuated in the future.
Out of 2759 junior or pupil teachers listed
in 1928 no fewer than 1978 were women.
The Director of Education in N. S. Wales
defends the woman teacher on the ground
that she appeals to the chivalry of _ her
male pupils and elicits a “fine spiritual
response.” A little evidence in support
of that theory would be relished by every
man in the State who remembers his school-
days.


m
m
mem
I e
a
m
•-S- ©
Even more luxurious even
more charming Sydney’s
“Australia,” brilliantly re-
decorated in the modern
manner.
NEW “ROOM ONLY’’ RATES.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Luncheon or Dinner in the Day-room
from 4/-
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
The
Hotel
Diamond Engagement Mings
mmmm
£3O
£2O
£25
Tin* diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and. repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
I 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It doesn’t look as if the people are to be
given a chance to choose the new N.S.W.
Leg. Council: “In order to retain certain
members of the present Council whose ser-
vices are of great, value,” part of the House,
it is proposed, shall be nominated. But
who has Jlie right to say whether the services
of certain members are invaluable? Mr.
Lang had it two months ago, Mr. Stevens
has it to-day. That, in fact, is precisely the
reason why the Council must be reformed.
“The N. S. Wales hospitals need the £750,000
per annum earned by the State lottery.”
—Minister Weaver.
PARSON WEAVER: “Bless you, my girl, and
may you never forget to go through
the pockets of your deplorable old
husband in Charity’s name!”
The Country Movement has been holding
a conference in Sydney to decide how N. S.
Wales shall be cut up_into new States. The
general idea was that there should be three
“units,” one in the north, one in the south
and the other taking in the middle strip that
includes both Sydney and Broken Hill. The
question they didn’t answer is, when a State
is thus divided into three parts which is
the “original State,” entitled always to six
Senators. As a matter of fact, there is no
provision at all for the “division” of States.
All that is provided for is the “separation”
of part of a State with the consent of that
State’s Parliament. The separated part
may be then admitted as a State on what-
ever terms as to representation, etc., the
Federal Parliament pleases.
Human nature being what it is, the U.A.P.
Assemblymen who supported Vic. Chief Sec.
Macfarlan for the deputy-leadership of the
party were not sorry when Menzies found
himself in difficulties while Argyle was
away. Argyle managed to straighten out
the "trouble, which arose over the proposal
to transfer £150,000 of Country Roads Board
funds (motor registration fees) to revenue.
Argyle pleaded necessity and the inviola-
bility of the pledge to the Premiers’ con-
ference that the deficit would be kept down
to £1,610,000; and as the malcontents didn't
want a crisis they let the Government have
its way.
Vic. Premier Argvle will have to reduce
by about £1,000,000 the estimates for 1932-33
supplied to him in the usual lavish way,
and that will mean drastic economies, lie
hinted to a deputation that some depart-
ments or branches, of departments might:
have to go altogether. As elderly officers
retire no new appointments are being mad ■
and vacancies caused by death are not filled.
It looks as if all sorts of grants will be
wiped out or reduced to small dimensions.
Queensland is to have its Royal Commis-
sion also; subject, payments of secret com-
missions in the dairying industry. When
things came out a few months ago Moore
said that in the exercise of its ordinary
powers the Taxation Department could make
all the necessary inquiries. Forgan Smith
has named an officer of that department—
C. J. Carroll, the chief inspector—his Com-
missioner.
The census due in 1931 was' postponed in-
definitely by the Federal Labor Government
in 1930 under the pretence of “saving the
expense.” The Lyons Ministry promises to
to take it in 1933. It will be a very cheap
way of giving temporary employment to
some 10,000 people spread all over the Co™*
monwealth, and longer employment to 200
or 300, the total cost being estimated at
£300,000. The money will be all spent on
local people, and not on imported goods.
When the census is finished it won’t be like
a loan-money railway, which eats up work-
ing expenses and interest for ever and ever
afterwards. And Australia wants a census
badly, for it is tired of guessing at its popu-
lation and unemployment figures and many
other figures.
Australian millers got a shock when the
Egyptian Government raised the duty on
Australian flour from about £6 per ton to
£l2. The object apparently is to encourage
milling in Egypt, which, while it grows a
considerable quantity of wheat, mills, on a
small scale, and imported 8f millions’
worth of Australian flour during the five
years 1927-31 inclusiye. Anyway, it’s no
case for retaliation, since Australia bought
only £24,000 of Egyptian produce in 1931.
When Vic. Assembly resumes on Sept. 6
ex-Attorney-General Slater will take his seat
again as member for Dim das. The r ecount
of votes polled on May 14 showed that instead
of Cooper beating Slater by 86, Slater beat
Cooper by 21. It is an extraordinary affair
altogether, and there will have to be an
inquiry.
When Weaver, N.S.W. Minister for
Health, was shown over the Brisbane abat-
toirs his speech of thanks contained an un-
conscious note of sarcasm. He expressed his
gratitude to Premier Forgan Smith for giv-
ing him the opportunity to witness such a
striking example of Queensland foresight
and efficiency. The truth is that when the
enabling bill was being put through Parlia-
ment, Foggy, then leading the Opposition,
did his darnedest to crab the project. Early
on his last election tour he proceeded to do
the same thing in his speeches, only desist-
ing when Moore pointed out that the scheme
had been approved by the McCormack
Ministry, of which Foggy was a member.
The tension between the Italian and
British elements on the North Queensland
canefields was tightened when an Italian
cane-farmer issued a Supreme Court writ
against the Babinda Central mill and the
Queensland Canegrowers’ Council to test the
legality of the British preference-agreement
betweeft the council and the A.W.U.
Plaintiff alleges that preference is illegal and
that under Federal law he is entitled to
employ any but colored labor in harvesting
his cane. The defendant co. had refused to
accept delivery of a crop unless cut in
accordance with the preference scheme; a
declaration is asked that it must accept
the crop, however cut, and damages are
claimed. There are. the makings of a fine
old row in the situation.
The importing interest, which is strong-
est in N. S. Wales, is busy on a special
effort to persuade the Lyons Government to
a reduction of the tariff. It isn’t actu-
ated, it swears, by a desire for more import-
ing business and big profits, but it weeps
because, it says, the primary producer has
to pay so much in duties on the imported
tools that he can’t live and can’t afford
Christian burial if he dies. The primary
producer, who doesn’t want the importer
to weep for him, being quite capable of
shedding his own tear's, would probably
prefer to get rid of the Federal land-tax,
even if he were reduced to employing
Australian labor to make the shears with
which he takes the wool off his jumbuck.
J. B.: “We bring you a beautiful bouquet
from Lausanne, Miss Prosperity; but
we can’t get you out till Sain gives us
the key.”
N.S.W. Government is credited wdth hav-
ing in mind the suspension of some tram
services and the licensing of ’buses for those
roqtes. Certainly something ought to be
done. For the 12 months to the end of June,
1931, earnings (Sydney and suburbs) were
£11,060 less than working exes. For the
year just passed things have been • better,
but on latest figures takings would still be
£150,000 short of interest on the whole
service, Newcastle included, and to that
must be added over £lOO,OOO for exchange.
But suspension of services isn’t the only
way out. An. expert overhaul of expenses
is the first thing needed.
During the election campaign Lang got
into the habit of staying away from meet-
ings at which he was advertised to speak,
and apparently it has grown on him. An
ill-advised association of ex-servicemen
resolved to entertain him in Newcastle Town
“The Newcastle Labor soldiers now threaten to
pawn the present they meant for Lang,”
“An’ you expect to raise a quid on it! A
quid! Now, I’ll dell yer vot I’ll do.
You gif me de address und two bob
und I’ll gif you fifty of dese busts.”
Ilall. An invitation was sent and over £2O
was spent on an illuminated address, but
when the lamps were lit and the garlands
were ready the hero failed to appear. He
gave no explanation, nor has he done so
since. The washout cost the organisers
close on £5O. They came to Sydney at the
week-end with the idea of collecting a
cheque, but the Greatest Statesman in the
Empire was nowhere to be found.
No doubt Mr. Lang is sick and tired
of testimonials. He gets one every time he
opens a paper and turns to the prices of
Australian Consols —the 4 p.c. stocks that
were converted last year. The first official
sale of the stock payable in 1938 was made
in Sydney on Sept. 21 at £B4; that was
followed by a sale of 1961’s at £7O. Last
week the ’3S’s were sold freely at £9B 11s.
3d. and the 7 61’s at £9B 7s. (id. A man
can’t want the public to tell him what it
thinks of him much more illuminatedly than
that.
The Federal land-tax falls on every bit of
freehold alleged to be worth over £5OOO.
The impost on rural land yields £920,307
by latest accounts. Prices of wool, wheat
and meat are down lower than they
were since the Federal land-tax was
invented, and considering the rise in
wages and general taxation many of the
estates nominally worth £5OOO or over are
worth nothing if measured by the income
they yield. If prices improve materially
they will doubtless be worth something,
but meanwhile they remain on a special
tax list on the plea that they are fitted to
support many more people than the present
bankrupt owners.
Stevens and co. have decided that the
correct thing for N. S. Wales is to spend
£8,050,000 of loan money this year on public
works. The first problem is to find the
works, the demand being for the kind that
will pay working expenses and, if possible*
something towards interest. The next pro-
blem is to find the money. There is nothing
in the familiar gag “Issue Treasury bills.”
Treasury bills are no use unless somebody
buys them, and buyers are scarce.
The tendency to - redress injustice runs
in families. “Good old Piddo” resigned
from the N.S.W. Industrial Court bench
as a protest because Lang lost bis Premier-
ship. and in no way helped Lang by
doing so. Now his son seems ready to
resign something .as a protest against the
alleged wrongs of the aborigines in West-
ralia. It is imperative, young “Piddo”
asserts, that steps should at once be taken
to right these wrongs. But the extent to
which Brown Brother should be invited
into the drawing-room, or the extent to
which young “Piddo” asks him to dinner,
by way of setting an example, doesn’t
appear. There are supposed to be 23,166
brown brethren and sistern in Westralia and
20,655 in the Northern Territory, but they
are nomadic and hard to count. Unless
“Piddo” “goes bush” and joins them and
gets the tale of their wrongs at first hand
he is likely to remain as incoherent as hi.-
father.
A. 0. Davidson, general manager of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, lecturing in Adelaide
advocated a high exchange rate for the bene
fit of the primary industries. But that
isn’t enough: if you increase exports you
must increase imports
The fiscal policy of the Commonwealth must he
reshaped gradually to restore the market here for
British and other imports, and in this there heed
be no menace to Australia’s efficient secondary
industries.
It is interesting to hear these Freetraders
pleading for high exchange rates to assis,
the primary industries because costs are so
high, while loftily telling the secondary
industries that they need not worry about
competition if only they become efficient.
Argyie has euchred Melbourne Trades
Hall by appointing Bov. .T. H. Cain to
the Unemployment Relief Council in place
of A. E. Monk, one of the multitude of
Trades Hall secretaries. On the board of
which the council is an elaboration Monk
was nearly always at loggerheads with the
other members; but the Trades Hall said
it would have Monk or nobody. Parson Cain
lias for years devoted much of his time.to
helping the workless, and he lias no political
bias.
Bad as the times are supposed to be for
motorists, registration revenue in Vic. last
year amounted to £1,110,513 —£80,000 above
the estimate and the second highest on record.
The number of vehicles registered, 144,553,
was 917 more than in 1930-31. Only ss.
p.a. is charged for drivers’ licenses ; of these
there were 236.712 —nearly 6000 more than
in 1929-80.
Sydney University is rather notable for
men of one idea among its teaching staff.
The other day R. B. Madgwick, described
as “lecturer on economics,” proceeded to
earn his oats by an address to students
which was reported by the “S. M. Herald”
as follows: —
The tariff means that everybody wants to sell,
but refuses to buy. The position is absurd....
The tariff prevents Capitalism from working properly.
It is impossible to have Capitalism with tariffs,
and to have even Communism with tariffs....
England, which was the hope of the world, has now
become Protectionist Given reasonable condi-
tions, Australia would be able to pay her debts.
Tariffs prevented such payments....
But if tariffs prevent both Capitalism and
Communism, they are a darned comprehen-
sive institution; if they would also prevent
ticks in cattle and keep blowflies off sheep
they might be about perfect. The assurance
that England was “the hope of the world’
in its Freetrade days is rather damaged by
the fact that Ireland suffered from Free-
trade at the same time, and its population
diminished from 8,175,125 in 1841 to
4.381,39 S in 1914. Further, the assurance
that Australia could pay its debts if it lost
its tariff revenue calls for a trifle of evi-
dence in support. Certainly it has never
paid its debts, yet.
“A record Bar lias been briefed for the N.S.W.
tin-hare inquiry.”
“But it’s neither gold nor a calf!”
“It does us, anyhow.”
Prodded by his own C-ocky party, and
possibly aroused by the spread of Gorman’s
Farmers’, Restoration League, Allan, Vie.
Minister for Agriculture, has undertaken to
draft a bill to provide for a sales tax of
£3 12s. per short ton of flour. The attitude
of the U.A.P. section of the Ministerialists is
awaited with interest. It is pretty clear, in
any case, that wheatgrowers can’t go on
producing at 2s. or 3s. a bushel.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Kerys” : The enterprising young salesman
explained that General Depresb had thrust
him into the work of vending silk stockings
in Darling Point. H’e sold on samples, and
these being of excellent quality and very
low price he reaped a harvest of orders,
These were duly delivered and the cash col-
lected a few days later. But examination
of the stockings revealed sundry small flaws,
and when shortly afterwards an agitated
young man appeared and asked his cus-
tomers if they had found defects in their
purchases he received wide assurances that
they had. He had feared as much, he said:
lie was as upset as they were about it. and
he had made such strong representations
to the firm involved that it had agreed to
repossess the defective goods and replace
them with unflawed stock. Gratified pur-
chasers handed the nice young man the
stockings in dozens ; and that was the last
seen of him.
“Cash and Carry”: Touching the growth
of “sly-grocing” among licensed victuallers in
England (B. 13/7/’32) Sydney clubs have
for years past combined the sale "of tinned and
bottled grocery lines with the staple products
of their bars. The system is convenient for
customers and I haven’t heard of the grocers
kicking. As to the “packet” beer, there is
no need to go to London for that. Maoriland
has taken wholeheartedly to the innovation,
and Bung and the brewer are lifting their
voices in protest.
“Dclver” : This isn’t the first
time N. S. Wales has been in-
terested in a lottery. Away
back in the ’forties the Bank of
Australia had to go into liquida-
tion, mostly because it had lent
too much to squatters, and, no
other way offering itself, its
assets were raffled. Incidentally,
that business has put many a
good guinea into the pockets of
lawyers down even to this day.
Under the bank’s Act its pro-
perty was vested in the “man-
aging director,” and later on it
was discovered that its mort-
gages had been discharged by
the “chairman of directors,”
which the lawyers said wasn’t
a discharge at all. Another lot-
tery was canvassed about the
same time, but, though it had
strong backing in England, it
didn’t come to anything. In the
“S.M. Herald” of Dec. 9, 1842.
you will find particulars of a
scheme by which it was pro-
posed in England that emigra-
tion should be encouraged by
the sale of lottery tickets at 55.,
10s. and 15s. each, the winners
to have free passages respec-
tively to Canada, the Cape and
S’Australia or New Zealand.
“Feng-Shui”: If America goes wet the
bootleggers need not despair; a new field for
their activities, the chances are, will be opened
up in China and Japan, where the Western
moralist is always busy. Just now mission-
aries are telling the indigene that the door
of the saloon is the gateway to Gehenna.
Both China and Japan are quite likely
in the near future to accept prohibi-
tion, although both peoples are more
addicted to tea than wine. China has already
made one experiment of the kind in trying
to suppress opium and the result has been
to make a home industry of what was largely
an import business. The Japanese will pre-
sent some difficulties to the reformers. It
will first be necessary to teach them that
drinking is sinful. At present they have
an inexplicable tendency to regard it as
pleasant and quite as respectable as it was
in England 100 years ago. When a delegate
left for the League of Nations recently a
newspaper belonging to his party expressed
its confidence that Mr. Fujiyama would be
able to drink the delegate of any other
country under the table,
* * * *
“10-2-4”: I doubt if many realised the
seething passions that underlay the recent
“S. M. Herald” controversy on talkie slang
which was referred to so lightly by
“Bloggs” (B. 6/7/’32). Outside the great
majoritv who treat the products of Holly -
wood, good, bad and awful, as another gener-
atiou used to treat plays—namely, as enter-
tainments and no more—there -are three
conflicting sections. Every suburb and town
has people who boast challengingly and
boorishly that they like American pictures,
The more low-brow the better! Good old
Tom Mix, or Clara Bow, as the case may
be! They use talkie slang wherever pos-
sible. “Oh yeah!” snarled over a fence
when a neighbor explains that he forgot
to return that garden fork; “Say, bo!” as
an aggressive opening gambit when a prong
is found to be missing. Members of another
section boil with Imperialistic fury at such
unpatriotic vulgarities, and mention proudly
and often that they are of good old English
stock, thank God! and never go to the
talkies at all. Neither they do, unless they
happen to be where no one knows them.
Those who belong to the third section scorn
the Philistine supporters of Hollywood as
heartily as anybody. They wince pitifully
when Americanisms are uttered in their
hearing. But they don’t object to all talkies.
No! No! They are men and women of
THE GIFT OF THE G(R)AB.
“There’s no doubt Hilda can act a part. She spoke so sorrowfully when Jack said he
had to go away that he stayed on and married her.”
“H ’m —I suppose that’s what they call speaking with a catch in one’s voice."
the world. “If,” they explain, “instead of
these morally- and mentally-debasing
American talkies, Australia could only have
French or German or, better still, Russian
talkies, all would be well, culturally speak-
ing.” The idea is that the second-rate Con-
tinentals •who produce and act in films on
the Continent are more artistic in some un-
explained way than the first-rate ones who
work in the U.S.A. The outward expression
of the emotions engendered by these oppos-
ing schools is a disposition on the one hand
to fill the language with American slang,
and on the other to keep it as dead as
Greek. When Mary Gilmore, the poetess,
pointed out in the “S. M. Herald” that
“bo,” “baby” and many more words were
basically English there were coarse howls
of triumph from the uncultured all over the
State. The feelings of the intellectuals were
lacerated too deeply for words. One of them
was virtually struck dumb. “Miss Gilmore
says ‘bo’ is English,” he wrote. “Well!
Well!” And he reeled from the fray—out,
controversially speaking, on his feet.
jjs % . $ 'A:
“X.N.0.”: I presume “Bloggs” (B.
6/7/’32) was referring only to the execu-
tive branch when he said he had never seen
a British or Australian naval officer under
flag rank wearing glasses. Plenty wear
them in the other branches, particularly
among the accountant officers. There are
executive officers who wear glasses, and
many more probably would but for the Ser-
vice belief that any sign of defective eyesight
would mean being passed over for promo-
tion. The proportion who should wear
glasses in the R.N. is probably about equal to
the proportion that actually do so in the
American Navy; but the latter cannot
afford to be so exacting in its requirements.
jJs -I-
“Pank” : Frenchmen claim to be the most
chivalrous people in the world, and yet the
enfranchisement of
women, long since an
accomplished fact in
most civilised coun-
tries. is still being
desperately and suc-
cessfully resisted by
the diehards of the
French Senate. Per-
haps there is no real
inconsistency in it;
some of the antis
profess reluctance to
drag woman off her
pedestal and express
fears lest the sanc-
tity of the home
should be disturbed
by political differ-
ences of opinion.
This was one of the
arguments employed
in England in the
’eighties, when the
agitation for woman's
suffrage was begin-
ning to force itself
on public attention.
In Britain woman
didn’t wait to be
dragged off her
pedestal; the asser-
tive portion of her
wrenched her rights
from the other sex
by methods none the
less cogent because
they were utterly illo-
gical and illegal.
Less drastic proceed-
ings should surely be
required to bring the
ultra-c liivalrous
Frenchman to
reason.
“Gira”: The tailed man is reported as
flourishing much further south than Borneo
(B. 13/7/’32). Writer frequently heard of
him in north-eastern Papua a generation
ago. Somehow, whenever one reached the
country he was supposed to inhabit, it was
explained that he must have shifted over
the next range-—no small matter in that
country of razor-back mountains. One day,
while I was on my travels, a sooty acquaint-
ance came in to say he had proof that
would satisfy me that these ape-men were
not myths. After a tramp of some 15 miles
we emerged into a small clay-floored clear-
ing. There was no one there, but in the
middle of the clearing was a circle of holes
from six to nine inches deep and about an
inch in diameter. My guide explained that
there had been a Premiers’ conference or
something of these elusive beings, and, in
order to be more comfortable, these holes
had been made to permit the insertion of
their tails when they sat down. I knew,
and the amiable liar knew I knew, that these
holes were where the consultants had stuck
their spears into the ground while having
their talk. But the incident impressed me
as throwing a light on the value of circum-
stantial evidence.
“Second to None”: One fur lid of the
British Army which “Fusee” has overlooked
(B. 33/7/’32) is the bearskin of the 2nd Dr a-'
goons, otherwise the Scots Greys. This, in
its turn, differs from the other brands of
bearskin or busby, and is probably the most
inconvenient headgear ever designed for a
cavalryman. Still, it has its uses. There
is a legend of a junior sub. who took a toss
over his charger’s head, landing on his bear-
skin. A small man, he went right into it.
and had to be led off parade and cut out of
it by the armorer-sergeant.
“Lomkey Ree”: Adelaide’s Tram Trust
and police together have put up a bit of
good detective work. Some time back an
Adelaide citizen sent a remittance to <a
prisoner in Portsmouth (Eng.) gaol, with
a covering message written on the back of
a tram ticket. The prisoner had been re-
leased when the letter reached its destination,
and had left no address; and the officials
could not read the sender’s address._ They
sent money and ticket to S.A. Commissioner
of Police. Each of the Trust’s fifty million
tram tickets issued in a year bears identi-
fication marks, and each of 600 conductors
uses a different punch die, So the tram
SAVES SUCH A LOT OF TROUBLE.
UNCLE: “I don’t like that feller you’re going out with. As soon
as he sees somebody else he’ll drop you.”
SYBIL: “Fes, uncle, but he’s one of those decent men that don’t
want to marry you first.”
people managed to locate the user of the
ticket in a limited area of Payneham suburb.
A house-to-house inquiry landed the money
and message in the sender’s hands.
THE TIN HARRIERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When Mr. Justice Halse Rogers resumed his in-
quiry into the tin-hare scandals there was barely
room for the array of counsel —four K.O.’s and nine
barristers—briefed in the case.”
The hunt is on, but not the sort of meet
You see upon the English countryside,
The show that gives the villagers a treat
When over hill and dale the sportsmen ride.
And yet the hounds will need be staunch
and fleet
As those old Jorrocks rudely specified
As “currant jelly dogs.” A strenuous spin
He’ll give them, I opine, this hare of tin.
The M.11.H. and his attendant force
Eschew the harrier’s customary rig;
There’s nothing appertaining to the horse
_ About them, saving and except the wig.
Yet through the legal thickets and the gorse
They’ll have to crash, and take some
fences big
Before their rattling day (or month) they
crown
By running their elusive, quarry down.
The hounds alertly “sniff the tainted gale.”
No, ’twas the stag did that. I ’most forgot.
My thoughts were turning to the stirring tale
Staged in the Trosachs by Sir Walter
Scott.
He leaves no scent on that impressive scale.
The animal that Shakspeare dubbed “poor
Wat.”
In metal, though, lie’s more effluvium :
Tin tops are not the only things that hum.
No “Yoicks!” or “Tally-Ho!” No cheerful
horn
To send its ringing echoes through the air.
Only the drone of witnesses being sworn,
Or counsel’s crisp injunction “Do you
swear ?”
For all, with every brush it’s on you borne
How pertinaciously they hunt the. hare.
Not in this instance for the pads or pot.
If anyone is jugged it won’t be Wat.
NO ANTIQUES.
MADAM: “I want a hat—after the style of the one I am wearing.”
ASSISTANT: “Certainly, Madam. All our hats are after that style.”
Lord knows wlrat tricks and ruses he'll
essay,
How. oft he’ll twist and turn upon his
track ! ,
I’ll bet he lead them on a tortuous way
Involving lots of casting wide or back.
He’s game to test the stamina and stay
Even of such a formidable pack.
Wade in, you learned legal lights, wade in !
There’s worth-while hunting in this hare of
tin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Talord”: Queensland stations can boast
at least two first-class polo teams; strange
to say, the stick and ball mania first broke
out on a Jimmy Tyson run, Goondoobluie,
when Dinny Gwydir was manager. Goondoo-
bluie consisted of about 20 square miles of
sunbaked earth, peppered with burr, and
Dinny, requiring a square mile cleared for a
home paddock, mounted* his staff of 13 on
station crocks, gave them long-handled hoes
and set them on the job. Later in the day,
when he went out to look over the result,
lie saw two teams of six a side facing each
other with their crocks’ heads touching; then,
at a signal from the odd man who acted as
referee, they wheeled out and galloped about
a furlong apart and wheeled in and pranced
towards each other, swinging hoes wildly at
the burrs. When they met in the centre
the sticks cracked madly over the remain-
ing clumps. Dinny could hardly believe his
eyes when he saw half a mile of country
cleared, and he used to brag about his
“polio” team to the end of his days.
•!> *•* V
“Arradni”: The experience of the s.s.
Ulmarra during the recent heavy weather,
when she arrived at Port Jackson 72 hours
overdue —though the voyage should have
taken at most five hours —calls attention to
the absolute futility of the wireless clauses
of the Navigation Act. The owners of a
vessel -are not compelled to provide radio
equipment if she trades between ports less
than 100 miles apart, or if there are fewer
than 50 souls aboard. These regulations
were framed in the days of spark trans-
mitters, when an efficient Morse operator had
to be aboard to work the installation. Radio-
telephony having advanced to the stage ’t
LOVE.
“Darling , I love you more than I can put in words.”
“Try figures, dear.”
has, new regulations should be framed mak-
ing it compulsory for all trading vessels to
carry a small radio-telephonic outfit. The
outlay would probably be no more than £l9O.
I wonder how much the search for the
Ulmarra cost.
“Lopez”: The distinction of the House of
Braganza in having occupied thrones in
two continents wasn’t quite unique (B.
13/7/’32) : the Hapsburgs were in the same
position when the ill-fated Maximilian
accepted the crown of Mexico in 1864. But
it was hardly three years before his subjects
shot Max. whereas the Braganza dynasty
lasted for 67 years in Brazil. The whole
royal family of Portugal bolted there in
1808 and remained for 13 years. Then King
John VI. returned to Lisbon, things having
quietened .-own there, but his, son Pedro,
when John died, preferred to be emperor of
Brazil rather than King of Portugal and
stayed in Rio. Probably he reckoned the
Brazilian job a more secure one for an
hereditary sovereign. But it hardly proved
so; his own days were full of trouble, and
the line which began with him ended with
his son, deposed and courteously shipped
back to Europe in 1889. The Portuguese
monarchy outlasted the Brazilian one by 22
years.
* * *
“Cap’ll Sam”: One has heard of streets
paved, apocryphally or otherwise, with
gold; Westralia has just learned that it
can claim one paved with copper. This is
the main thoroughfare of Northampton, 40
miles north of Geraldton. Copper- and lead-
mining- put the district on the map some 40
years before payable gold was found _in
the colony, but the mines lacked staying
power and the township gradually became the
centre of a farming district —the northern
end of Westralia’s lengthy wheat belt. Some
of the mines gave high returns in the early
’fifties, but the cost of cartage was so pro-
hibitive that only the richest ore was sent
away, stuff that would have paid hand-
somely if there had been a concentrating-
plant available being utilised for road-mak-
ing. And until the dumps gave out, which
wasn’t for half a century, Northampton con-
tinued to use green metal for the purposes
for which blue metal serves elsewhere. But
the township is a dreamy old place, and jt
saw nothing unique or even remarkable in
its cupriferous highway until a visiting
Minister happened to hear of it and, after
interviewing an oldest inhabitant or two,
returned to Perth and mentioned it as the
copper road.
“R.G.” : When the Casino broke her back
in Apollo Bay, the Victorian waterfronts
lost another familiar figure. Built in Glas-
gow for the Newcastle and Hunter River
Co., she was never commissioned by it, but
in 1882 was acquired by the Belfast and
Koroit concern as a means of cheap trans-
port for Western District produce to Mel-
bourne and Geelong. She did the job well
for half a century, though not without occa-
sional mishaps, In 1924 she struck a reef in
Apollo Bay and most of her cargo had to
be jettisoned; in 1929 she struck a sub-
merged object outside Warmambool Harbor
and was grounded in a sinking condition.
This time she took the master, the first mate,
stewardess, cook and six seamen with her to
Davy Jones.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Vic. Chief Secretary
Macfarlan is seriously exercised in his mind
over alleged results of the teacup-reading
craze in Melbourne cafes. Seers in faded
dressing-gowns with towels round their heads
drift about these eating houses holding the
hands and gazing into the teacups of intelli-
gent citizenesses, some of whom may have
voted for Mr. Macfarlan. They tell these
ladies that a beautiful, dark, svelte woman
has come into their lives and that their
domestic happiness (if any) is in danger.
Putting two and two together, the clients of
the seer conclude that what the teacups have
revealed is that their husbands are unfaith-
ful. Then they go home and give the old
man beans. So Mr. Macfarlan proposes
to make teacup-reading illegal. While he
is at it lie might declare jealousy a criminal
offence. Or better still, he might read
“Othello” and decide to do neither.
* M= * $
“Exon”: A dozen undergrads were sum-
marily “sent down” from the Perth Uni. the
other day, not for disorderly conduct or any
other exuberances of youth, but simply
because they were held to have paid insufli-
cient attention to their studies. It is pointed
out that the institution is about the only
one in the Empire where no fees are charged
and that it has a duty to perform in seeing
that the State gets value for its money,
which it cannot do if drones are tolerated.
All the same the professors are a little
uneasy about it. Expulsion from a univer-
sity leaves a certain stigma which involves
an unfair assumption in these cases. One
suggestion is that students whose work is
unsatisfactory should be allowed to expiate
their offence and pay the fees which others
escape—get the option of a fine, in other-
words.
“H.R.C.” : A week in a man-o’-war would
disabuse “Landlubber’s” mind of the notion
(B. 13/7/’32) that “if the Navy set out to do
a week’s routine and domestic work it would
clean the job up in a day.” The Navy
started to a do a job about 350 years
ago and hasn’t finished it yet. “Life is
one long wrestle with the clock” —it’s a
fight to get the work done in the time avail-
able. . Nor was the Navy “built for war.”
It was built to maintain peace and only to
fight when statesmen and diplomats have
made war unavoidable.
“E q u e s” :
There are five
or six grades of
knighthood, and
though a K.B.
will elevate a
Mr. into Sir-
dom just as
effectively a
K.C.M.G., there
have been Aus-
tralians who
have turned up
their noses at
the humble
brand. One such
was John Win-
throp Hackett.
the Perth news-
paper propri-
etor. ITackctt
was given the
opportunity of
becoming a
knight bachelor
in 1902, and
reckoned it alto-
gether inade-
quate to his
merits. He took
his revenge by
advertising him-
self in “Who’s
Who” for sev-
eral years as
"was offered and
refused knight-
hood.” But in
1911 —h a v i n g
married in the
mean time—he
thought better
of it, and indi-
cated his will-
ingness to start
at the bottom of
the knighthood
ladder if he
could be assured
of going up a
rung of two
later on. So lie was named K. 8., and the
K.C.M.G. came along a year or two later.
tft * *
“L. 1.8.”: The Victorians have completed
the list of the 16 important battles of the
Great War which arc to be recorded on their
memorial. The list is : Cocos Island, North
Sea 1915-18, Landing at Anzac, Sari Bair,
Villers Bretonneux, Mont St. Quentin, Hin-
denburg Line, Ypres 1917, Messines, Amiens,
Pozieres, Bullecourt, Romani, Gaza-Beer-
sheba, Megiddo and Damascus. For the in-
formation of the many to whom the last
four names will be unfamiliar, it should
be stated that they were battles in Sinai
and Palestine in which the Light Horse
took a considerable part. Megiddo—site of
the Biblical Armageddon—is the name given
to the break through and pursuit by the
greatest cavalry force in history which
resulted in the destruction of the Turkish
armies by the time Damascus was reached.
“Differential" : There was a curious motor
accident in N.S.W. the other day when the
shawl in which an
infant was wrapped
dropped through a gap
in the flooring of the
car and became en-
tangled in the revolv-
ing universal shaft.
The child’s legs were
drawn through the
hole and wound up
tightly to the shaft
before the engine could
be stopped; fortunately
the victim was extri-
cated without serious
injury having been
sustained. The fate of
the dancer Isadora
Duncan in Europe
affords an almost
exact parallel. She
was inspecting her
engine while it was
still runnjng and the
end of a long scarf
she wore round her
neck caught in the
crankshaft. She was
alone at the time, and
when found was dead,
strangled, and with a
broken neck as well.
* *
“ Ex-Englishman ” :
You can take it from
me that cigarettes
were practically un-
known in London till
the early ’seventies. I
can well remember the interest with which
we watched daring innovators roll their
shredded tobacco in papers sold for the pur-
pose. The ready-made article was years
later in coming.
“M.G.S.”: It is a simple view of life
“D.J.” propounds when he says (B.
8/6/’32) that young men, not old men, cause
wars, being the more hotheaded. Individuals
don’t cause wars nowadays, and it is doubt-
ful if they ever did. Wars are caused by
ideas, and ideas are propagated by educa-
tion, and education is in the hands of the
old. Young men may have old minds and
old men may have young minds, but in
general the old men have a vested interest
in maintaining the status quo in the realm
of ideas because it requires least effort to
stand pat on an old idea. The young minds
all over the world were working for more
decency in international relations when the
old minds were fussing about with an out-
of-date diplomacy which made the outbreak
of hostilities in 1914 inevitable. If Theo-
dore Fink, of Melbourne “Herald,” one
of “D.J.’s” Wise Old Men, had any ideas
that might have prevented war in 1914, he
did not produce them in any of the organs
of public opinion he owns, any more than
he is producing ideas that may prevent the
collapse of world industrialism to-day. When
a war breaks out the young have once more
EXPLAINED.
MRS. MIGGINS: “ The ’am-an’-beefs got up ‘Under New Management ,"
but I see the same squinny-eyed man’s still in the shop.”
MRS. DIGGINS: “I suppose what it is ’e’s got married again.”
to do what they are told. They all go into
plain khaki while the old men get into uni-
forms and sit on recruiting hoards. I was
in a small town in Surrey when the Great
War broke out, and I was amazed to see liow
many old men, hitherto waiting dully and
insignificantly for death in country houses,
suddenly found a constructive purpose in
life the moment life turned on itself and
became destructive.
* i? *
“Blood” : .Joy-riding in cabs (B. 25/5/’32)
was by no means confined to Melbourne in
Queen Victoria’s days. In that golden age
it was quite a common finish to an evening’s
amusement in the West End of London to
bribe the cabby to take his place as pas-
senger while the fare mounted the box and
drove —the cab was, of course, invariably a
hansom. I have seen a procession of half
a dozen such cabs driven by a party of
vinous youths in evening-dress spinning
down Piccadilly in the early dawn, each with
its approving and well-tipped jehu lolling
inside. There being no danger at that hour
to any but the young idiots themselves, the
grinning police rarely interfered. The cor-
rect thing was to finish up with a breakfast
of sausages and mashed at some cabmen’s
shelter. Driving from the elevated hansom-
cabby’s perch is by no means as easy as it
looks, and if a horse comes down when going
fast a header over the top of the cab is a
risk to be reckoned with.
* * * *
“Zerod”: Schoolboy howlers?. Here are
a few illuminating meanings of words that
have lightened my professional work in cor-
recting general-knowledge papers: “Unique,
a Turkish slave; demijohn, a mad China-
man ; horticulture, overbearing manners;
gauge, to over-eat; rogue, a kind of paint
used by women ; domain, a place where people
speak; taint, slang for no.”
* * * *
“ Jeames” : Since the war Australians have
achieved a position in the hearts of the Eng-
lish similar to that which was occupied by
Americans at the beginning of the century.
I got this from London last week, about
an inoffensive female who was given a lunch
at a West End women’s club as the wife
of an Australian official: —
Mrs. was doing her darndest to get going
with the Countess of Oxford and Asquith. This is a
difficult • feat, if the noble lady is capricious. Un-
daunted the guest of honor plodded on. Inevitably
the talk turned to Australia’s sad plight. Turning
to the Countess she said: “Do you know, it must
be over two years since any of my Australian friends
' have been able to come to England ! ”
“Thank God!” said the Countess heartily.
It was towards the end of Victoria’s reign
that Yanks first began to visit Henley and
get away with rowing events like the
Diamonds, and they also sent athletic
teams to the Queen’s Club which wiped
the floor with Oxford and Cambridge.
Since then, Australians have mopped up
almost everything in the athletic line that
they have gone after; and worse —far worse
—they did better in the war than the soldiers
of many historic British units. The Eng-
lish, like the members of France’s old
Catholic nobility, have their own way of
getting back on their betters. They ignore
the real grievance altogether, and stress the
ghastly crudeness of those who have downed
them. When Mayfair or the Faubourg St.
Germain gets bitter about someone’s accent
or manners you can be sure the alleged vul-
garian has made a deplorable success of
something at the expense of the critic’s class.
People of long descent. Norman blood and
the rest, lose just as badly as commoners.
The only difference is that they have a dif-
ferent way of putting the boot into the
umpire.
A MODERN MARTYR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An amazing- instance of devotion to duty was
revealed in a Dental Board prosecution in Melbourne,
where a police constable gave evidence that he had
had a tooth pulled out to enable him to bring a
charge against the operator of practising dentistry
contrary to the provisions of the Medical Act.”
Had he an aching molar? Was it merely
To kill two birds with the same stone he
sought?
That’s an ungenerous assumption, clearly.
Away with the idea! Perish the thought!
No nagging nerve’s importunate affliction
Had hustled him into the dentist’s chair;
The simplest way of getting a conviction
Was all that brought him there.
Wouldn’t (you ask) some minor operation
Have served his purpose? Say, a tooth to
stop ?
All, no. He fought and vanquished that
temptation
As unbecoming to a sturdy cop.
He went the limit, conscientious fellow,
In thoroughness deliberate and grim.
The actor, blacked all o’er to play Othello,
Gould show no ljoints to him.
He set at nought the tortures of extraction
As out that serviceable grinder came,
Beside the pleasant glow of satisfaction
That presently suffused his burly frame.
His was the telltale proof—they couldn’t
knock it—
To cut all shadow of defence away.
And carefully he stowed it in his pocket
To be “exhibit A.”
War has her victories, they ofttimes tell us,
And victories no less renowned has Peace,
For sheer devotion, shining, selfless, zealous,
They take a lot of beating, our police.
Dauntless they face the basher and the
chopper,
While to their bravery our lids we doff.
And verily an extra cheer were proper
For the intrepid forceps-facing copper
Who duly pulled it off.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


WINTER 1932
V®' 1 '
INSTANT STARTING
✓' ... ...
INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
S 1272
PERSONAL
ITEMS
T, H. Houlder, the robust chairman of
Boulder Bros., the London shipping firm, is
looking Australia over, not for the first time.
He got his first view of Melbourne from
the deck of a windjammer as an apprentice
in 1881, and in subsequent years visited it
in various capacities up to that of first
mate. As a youngster he sailed from Sydney
to the South Seas and met “Bully” Hayes.
Thomas Rees Williams, who is leading
a party of 50 engineers and artillery-
men to. Darwin for the construction
of additional defences there, is a Banana-
lander with a fine war record. He
left with' the A.I.F. as a captain in 1914,
bad charge of the all-important water supply
at Gallipoli, was placed in control of
A.I.F. communications by Monash in 1918,
and returned as. lieut.-colonel with a C.M.G.
and D.S.O. Since then he has been chief
signal officer of the Permanent Forces.
Sturdy and outspoken, he is the sort of man
who does spectacular things in a matter-of-
fact way. The Darwin job will take a
year or two.
Perth has seen only two men in the
Mayoral chair during the past 15 years. Wil-
liam Lathlaiu, a patriotic draper, held the
job from 1917 to 1923, when he injudiciously
sought to fix a site for a new Town Hall and
stirred up a whirl of conflicting interests that
temporarily submerged him. James Frank-
lin, a plain, blunt manufacturer, succeeded,
and wore the rabbitskin for 7| years; then
he retired and Lathlain reappeared. Now
Lathlain, who recently lost his Leg. Council
seat, has resigned, and Franklin, also an
M.L.C., has embarked on another civic term.
Just retired after many, years’ association
with the M.L. Tourist Department at
Rotorua, chief-guide A. Warbrick. No man
has had more varied and exciting experi-
ence of eruptions. He witnessed the great
Tarawera upheaval of 1886, was nearly killed
in an eruption some months later, and saw
his brother and four tourists, two of them
young girls, overwhelmed by a big shot from
Waimangu geyser and swept to death in the
boiling cauldron’s overflow. He knew 7 every
mood of the mighty Waimangu, and always
prohesied it would cease activity as suddenly
as it began.
Plumer is no more. The stout little man
with the puffy moustache and the permanent
eyeglass looked like anything but a great
soldier, but he proved himself all of that in
two wars, as thousands of Australians who'
fought under him in France and South Africa
will testify. Yorksliire-born, Plumer made a
name as suppressor of the Matabele rebel-
lion, and when the Boer War broke out he
organised the defence of Rhodesia, later tak-
ing part in the relief of Mafeking. His
big chance came as leader of a famous flying
column during the last two years of the
war. The reputation he carried away from
Africa he greatly enhanced at Messines.
“Polly,” as they called him, was keen on
cricket, and was chairman of the Marylc-
bone Cricket Club until recently.
D. H. DRUMMOND, N.S.W. Minister for
Education under Bavin and Stevens.
Passed out at 84, Patrick Joseph O’Connor,
R.C. Bishop of Armidale. Born in Ireland
and ordained at Dublin he came to Aus-
tralia in 1876, and settled down to a lifetime
of service in the New England centre. He was
successively Dean, Vicar-General and Coad-
jutor-Bishop, and succeeded Dr. Torreggiani
as Bishop 28 years ago. The diocese holds
many monuments to his tireless energy and
organising capacity, notably the fine cathe-
dral at Armidale, the De La Salle College
and St. Patrick’s Orphanage.
J. S. Langley, secretary of Melbourne’s
Rationalist Association, challenged Arch-
bishop Head to a debate on Christianity. The
ecclesiastic promptly accepted the challenge,
but those who had looked forward to seeing
an all-in fight between two intellectual giants
were disappointed. The debate degenerated
into an address by the archbishop entitled
“Why I am a Christian,” followed at
a week’s interval by an address by Langley
entitled “Why I am Not a Christian.” Lang-
ley, who years ago founded the Rationalist
Society in Perth, was himself prepared for
holy orders, but changed his mind after read-
ing some non-theological literature on a book-
stall at Oxford.
Bernard Page, the Englishman who has
been wearing out the pedals of Wellington’s
Town Hall organ
for the last 19
years, lives under
a Damocletian
sword these days,
for the, City
Council, bent on
economy, is talk-
ing about abol-
ishing him. But
he isn’t without
defenders. A big-
deputation of citi-
zens called on the
council the other
night and begged
that the City
Organist should
be spared. The
d c p u tationists
put up a good
case, mentioning,
among other mat-
ters, that Mr.
Page had during
his regime im-
P "or ted £BOO
worth of music,
evidence of a re-
markably exten-
sive repertoire.
The council seem-
BERNARD PAGE,
Wellington’s city organ-
ist, whose head may
jail into the economy
basket.
ed to. be impressed, and there were hopes at
the time this par. was written that the ser-
vices of one of the most scholarly and accom-
plished organists in the Dominion would be
retained.
E. J. Sievers, who has penned his last
report, was the first Valuer-Gejieral of N.S.W.
—he held the job from its creation in 3016
until his retirement a year ago. Before that,
as Government land valuer, he had been en-
trusted with the most responsible work that
came along—the taking over by the Sydney
Harbor Trust - of the water frontages from
Dawes Point to Pyrmont, in respect of which
the claims by landowners totalled £12,000,000.
was one of the large-scale enterprises ho
helped to put through. Sydney-born, he had
some banking and real-estate experiences in
his youth; his first Government appointment:
was as valuer and inspector for the N.S.W.
Savings Bank.
Australia owes a good deal to Admiral Sir
Reginald Henderson, dead in his native Kent.
Brought to this country in 1910-11 to advise
on naval defence, he made the recommenda-
tions which resulted in the establishment of
the R.A.N., including the then formidable
battle cruiser the Australia, whose superior
strength and speed prevented Von Spee’s
squadron from raiding our coastal cities.
Henderson entered the Navy in 1860 and was
second in command of the Invincible at the
bombardment of Alexandria just. 50 years
ago. Later he commanded many ships, includ-
ing the battleships Royal Sovereign and Mars.
R. W. Sturgess, the artist, who passed out
at Williamstown (Vic.) the other day, re-
sembled J. J. Hilder in other respects than the
fact that both died young—Sturgess was 40.
His output was small and his romantic
water-colors made fairy palaces of the fac-
tories of Williamstown and gondolas of the
local fishing craft. Consequently he was
generally, regarded as a protege of. the Sydney
painter, though in point of fact his style
was already fixed before he saw a Hilder
picture. His paintings are delicate and
mystical, but there is less knowledge in
them than H'ilder’s. They were eagerly
snapped up by collectors a few years ago.
O. A. Topp, who went over the hill at Mal-
vern (Vic.), last week, was an efficient and
versatile departmental head, equally good as
principal of the Education Department’s
training institute, Chairman of the Board of
Public Health, permanent head of the Chief
Sccretarv’s Department and Public Service
Commissioner. His advice was, sought by
many Governments. Topp was in retire-
ment 24 years on a pension of £6OO a year.
W. F. Greenard, Westralia’s senior
inspector of mines when he retired two or
three years ago, has enlivened his** leisure
with a couple of unsuccessful shots at Par-
liament, the first for the Kalgoorlie Federal
division, the second (the other day) for the
Kanowna seat vacated by Tommy Walker’s
death. It is pretty much of a forlorn-hope
business to run against Tabor for a
fields seat, but Greenard polled a solid vote
on each occasion, and in the Kanowna elec-
tion he more than held his otvn in the
mining parts of the constituency, a tribute
to his old solicitude for the working miner’s
welfare. Kanowna, where six non-Labor
candidates forfeited their deposits when it
returned its first Labor member (Bobby
Hastie), stretches from Laverton to Esper-
ance nowadays, and, curiously enough, it
was upon the agricultural sections that
Labor had to rely for its majority on this
occasion.
F. C. Macdonald, who died in Sydney
recently at 7S years, came of a fine old High-
land stock, his grandfather having been chief
of the Macdonalds of Morar. His father, the
late Colin Macdonald, was one of the many
Scottish pioneers who began the settlement
of the Darling Downs, and he himself -was
born on Beneraba station there. H'is mother
was a daughter of the Commissary Brown
whose name is familiar to students of “The
System” in N.S.W., so he was well linked
up with early Australian history. With a
brother, he owned several cattle stations, in
the Charters Towers country for years until
his retirement to Sydney in 1900.
A picturesque figure in Central Queens-
land is D’Arcy Donkin, owner and manager
of Meteor Downs. A war-bird, he uses
a ’plane for work and pleasure, dropping
coils of barbed wire along his fences or
locating his grazing herds. Lately a fellow-
aviator of the war days travelled by train
from the south to spend a holiday with him.
Donkin was at Springsure with his ’bus, an
old war ’plane with dual controls. The visi-
tor packed his luggage and himself aboard,
and they took to the air. About half-way
homo Donkin felt the controls beginning to
jamb, and to his alarm discovered that his
passenger had dozed off and subsided on to
the control-rods in his cockpit. The nose of
the ’plane had dipped, they were headed
on a long dive at an increasing velocity
towards a patch of gidgee scrub, and the
controls were useless. He shouted at the
top of his voice without disturbing the
sleeper. Suddenly he remembered that his
friend was an old pilot. He shut off the
engine, and the sudden silence did what the
shouting had failed to' do. The sleeper
awakened and the danger was removed, with
not many seconds to spare.
Tom Burke, the real-estate agent, has been
made honorary Consul for Poland in Mel-
bourne. He will have to make his own
tracks, as Poland has not previously had
a consular representative in Vic. One
immediate advantage he will secure is free
parking for his car in the city streets.
( W. Barry, the new Labor member for
Carlton, is the first of his name to arrive
in the Vic. Leg. Assembly, though there
was a Redmond Barry, afterwards a well-
known Judge, in the old Leg. Council
as a nominee. Like the former member for
BARRY, M.L.A. who stepped into the
shoes of the late Bob Solly by winning
the Carlton seat in the Vic Assembly
by-election.
Oakleigli, Squire Reid, Barry is a tobacco-
worker by trade. tie beat ex-Attorney-
General Sla-ter in the pre-selection ballot
by a few votes; now lie and Slater will be
fellow-members by virtue of the Dundas
recount.
J* Hume Cook, at tlie Ottawa Confer-
ence as assistant to a member of the dele-
gation, and one of the few survivors of the
first Commonwealth Parliament, writes a
good deal these days, and has a book of Aus-
tralian fairy tales to his credit. He hopes
to publish the sequel (at present in MS.)
some day.
HAROLD TILLEY, news-editor of Adel-
aide “Advertiser.”
Major von Pa pen, who, as titular head of
the reconstituted Government of Germany,
wag a party to the Lausanne arrangement,
was the man who, while German Military
Attache at Washington, labored Lard in a
neutral country to sabotage its activities. He
was a member of Liman von Sanders’s staff
on Gallipoli before his American adventure.
When Uncle Sam kicked him out, Papon re-
turned to his old chief, then desperately
endeavoring to stay the Turkish rout in
Palestine. Writing to Count Bernstorff at
Berlin, Papen had hard things to say of the
Turco-German forces with their backs to the
wall at Jerusalem. He got towelled
by Von Sanders for this, and wrote ask-
ing to be pushed off the staff and employed
as a battalion commander; but when last
heard of in Palestine he was running his
chief hard in the G.H.Q. bolt from Nazareth
when the Australian Light Horse rode into
the town.
R. T. Moodie, Adelaide manager for the
Bank of Commerce till the N.S.W. mopped
it up, moves on to Ballarat as manager for
the bigger institution. K. V. R. Douglas,
from Perth, succeeds him at the Rundle-
street branch of the Wales in Adelaide.
Sir Richard Threlfall, who died in Eng-
land last week at 70, was one of the Empire’s
leading engineers and inventors. He was
Professor of Physics at Sydney University
in the ’eighties and ’nineties and president of
a Royal Commission on the loading and
carriage of coal at sea. On his return to
England he held several important Govern-
ment positions. Some of his inventions were
of great value in the war, notably the smoke-
screen compound which played such a suc-
cessful part in the naval raids on Ostend
and Zeebrugge. He also devised the phos-
phorous compound used in tracer bullets
which enabled airmen to see the flight of
(heir machine-gun bullets fired at enemy
’planes.
The unexplained tragedy of the South
Wales miner’s wife whose husband cut her
throat pfter Sir Harold Gilles had restored
her disease-disfigured face brings into' promi-
nence this plastic surgeon, who has per-
formed miracles of surgery. He was born
in Dunedin (M.L.) 50 years ago, educated
at Wanganui and later at Cambridge Col-
lege. The war brought him to the front.
He is now chief plastic surgeon to the Royal
Air Force and other hospitals.
William Earle, an old-age pensioner who
died in the Deniliquin Hospital, aged 75,
was for many years a gardener on a district
station, and was always regarded as a mys-
tery. As a matter of fact, he w T as an Eng-
lish officer —an artillery captain—who had
campaigned with Lord Roberts in India, and
had crashed. The late Major-General Sir
George Earle was his father.
Richard Hughes, whose posters and adver-
tisements of Sunday trains have aroused
the “profound indignation” of the Vic. Coun-
cil of Churches, is Commissioner Clapp’s
publicity man. He started in the department
as ink-well cleaner 10 years ago, and at 26
is the first railwayman to hold the publicity
.job, his two predecessors, H. C. Fenton and
lioy Gollan. having come from sub-editorial
chairs in Melbourne’s Fleet-street. Hughes
got his first chance on the “Vic. Railways
Magazine”’ A vigorous and effective speaker
in Melbourne’s “Model Parliament” he won
the Senator Elliott trophy as champion
debater a few.weeks ago.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during thp balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
Subscribed Share Capital . . • • • • • * • •
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . • •
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . .
Area Planted . . . . ■ • • • • • • • 132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
£500,000
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Wayinouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
EXPLOSIVES
ALIi KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, fLS.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd. )
, Dividends ~ Towards
Dec., Profits. Pref. 8 p.c. Old. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1927.. 16,717 16,717 Nil 4,649
1928.. 13,815 27,557 Nil 18,391
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 j. 19
1930.. 15,887 .28,000 Nil j
Over-provision for taxation, £2692.. 9,405
Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 1 •, - , ( ,r,
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil 15,590 j
Written off parent’s debt, £9308.. 6,185
This Sydney offshoot of Union Theatres, Ltd.
(the parent is now in liquidation), was
formed at the end of 1926, and put up the
State Theatre and a shopping block of 11
floors on the old "Evening News” site in
Market-street at a cost of over a million.
Union took all the half-million of ords. for
cash and/or assets, and a mortgage
(£146,853 at the close of last accounts) over
the freehold. The public snapped the
£350,000 of 8 p.c. cum. prefs., chiefly on
the strength of a guarantee as to capital
and dividend by Union and Australasian
Films, jointly and severally. The liquida-
tion of Union has not affected the earning
capacity of the Investments Co., which gets
the net return from the theatre and the rentals
from so much of the rest of the building as
it is able to let. But it has affected the
substance of the guarantee to the prefs., and
to that extent weakened their security.
What kind of a prop Australasian Films is
to lean upon the "Wild Cat” does not know;
a clear statement of that co.’s position has
not been broadcast. Since the Investments
Co.’s pref. div. was 12 months in arrears
at the close of last accounts, E. J. Watt,
the largest individual pref. holder, was
appointed to the board.
The new theatre and shopping block did
not begin to contribute to the pool (the co.
also gathers rents from its George-street
freehold) until the latter half of 1929. and
the guarantors were called upon for £6505
to cover that year’s pref. div. Then, before
the co. could get into its stride, slump
strewed the path with obstacles. Financial
emergency legislation, including special taxa-
tion, bit deeply into the attenuated theatre
takings and rentals, leaving the net result
for 1930 £7963 short of the previous year’s;
so, to enable the prefs. to get their £28,000,
the guarantors sent along £16,032.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts there was little change in the net
trading result, which was not much more
than half the prefs.’ full ration. More or
less liquids were a trifle short of the float-
ing debt when the books closed, and the
articles prohibit the co. from borrowing any
money in excess of the present mortgage
debt without consent of a majority of the
prefs. Also the Film Co., the remaining
guarantor, has apparently been feeling the
pinch too acutely to give any help; so the
prefs. have been passed by.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it: —
1927 1929. 1930 1931
Pref. capital.. £245,425 £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Ord. „ . . 128,500 128,500 500,000 500,000
Mortgages .. 145,000 145,000 145,000 146,853
Sundry creditors 87,333 23,578 27,362 20,841
Union Theatres 374,588
Land & build-
ings .. 328,296 969,880 980,849 1,004,608
Book debts,
cash, etc.. 4 283,058 49,771 43,415 19,270
Last year’s reduction of £24,145 in book
debts, cash, etc., apparently includes £9308
struck off as a bad debt on account of
Union’s guarantee. The remaining £14,837,
together with the year’s surplus earnings,
enabled £6521 to be snipped off the floating
debt, and £23,759 to be added to the book
value of the properties.
To what extent, if any, earnings can be
expected to improve it is difficult to say at
the moment. It is not clear from the report
whether the latest figures got the full benefit
from the various savings that have been
made. Much will depend upon the co.’s
success in letting the premises at satisfac-
tory rentals; little relief need be expected
from taxation, An item likely to take a
bigger bite in the future is the charge for
renovations, repairs and renewals. _ Thus
far nothing has been visibly set aside for
the purpose. The i market prices the prefs.
at 13s. The book value of the backing, apart
from the guarantee, is £2 9s. 7d. in net
tangibles.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 . . 43,842 12 p.e. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
1922 . . 97,299 20 „ ~ 53,000 44,290 80,449
1923 . . 28,431 8 „ „ 21,200 7,231 87,680
1924 . . 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10,040 97,720
1925 . . 28,793 8 „ „ 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 . . 30,484 8 „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 . . 61,698 10 ~ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 .. 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 .. 39,142 8 ~ ~ 21,200 17,942 185,762.
1930 . . 45,445 8 „ ~ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 . . 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
Chief factors influencing last year’s figures
were an excellent season, lower costs and
the exchange premium. Fairymead does not
broadcast its crushings; but the Australian
crop reached the record figure of 604,000
tons, which was 69,000 tons better than
the previous year’s. Local consumption took
somewhere about one-half, as against 60
p.c. in the previous season; thus more was
exported at ruinously low world prices. So,
although exchange and British preference
softened the blow (the export surplus aver-
aged £9 7s. as againsL £N os. in 1930), the
average price for the whole crop was 265. 7d.
lighter at £lB 6s. 6d. per ton. However, the
bigger outturn and cut in costs helped ; so
the board wrote net profit £1345 better at
£28,469. The extra £20.000 of profit shown
in the table represents the year’s net addi-
tion to the replacement reserve (now
£151,872). This has been built up as cir-
cumstances permitted since 1912, and nothing
has been visibly withdrawn. If it is
not an accumulation in excess of actual
requirements, then the £237,276 of reserves
shown above is not 100 p.c. genuine profit.
Including the addition the year’s net result
was 18.2 p.c. on capital as against 17.1,
14.7, 14.8, 23.3 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1926.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., which is the
average for the 21 years since the co. took
over the sugar interests of A., H. and E.
Young, at Bundaberg. How much of the
co.’s profits comes from milling and growing
respectively is not disclosed in the published
figures ; but anything better than an 8 p.e.
div. seems unlikely. Indeed, there is no cer-
tainty that that rate will be maintained
There is a strong demand in the southern
States for cheaper sugar and the whole
question comes up for review again next
year. Despite efforts to check expansion,
production has increased during the last few
years, due mainly to improved methods:
hence the necessity for some scheme to pool
losses on export. The most satisfactory
solution of the problem appears to lie in the
extent to which production can be curtailed
without endangering the whole structure.
Fairymead has spent a lot of money on
mills, plantations and other equipment of
recent years, to the benefit of costs. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures show
it:
1923. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities .. 58,793 140,481 28,640 38,472
Estates . . 176,063 222,637 226,908 228,552
Factories, etc. 112,585 163,341 162,111 160,325
Railways, etc. 41,084 53,434 54,993 54,969
'Plant. . . . 40,627 54,503 43,355 43,969
Stores . . 5,643 11,076 17,815 13,581
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 37,287 19,666 60,821
Nearly all the money that became available
last year, including the allowance for depre-
ciation, was held liquid. Including stores
the more or less liquid surplus (£35,930)
was £27,089 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The market prices the pound shares* at
245. 6d. as against 18s. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 6.5 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis. The net tangible backing is
375. lid., including the replacement reserve.
The board has its eye on subsidiary interests,
and nominal capital is to be lifted to
300,000 by the creation of 35,000 new £1
shares. A new issue to shareholders or the
public is not contemplated.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
June. £ £ . £ £ £
1923.. 12,879 753 8 p.c. = 6000 6126 6,126
1924.. 16,164 1600 8 ~ „ 7688 6876 13,002
1925.. 17,771 1552 8 „ „ 8064 8155 21,157
Remaining prefs. converted to ordinaries.
All Shares.
1926.. 28,692 8 p.c. = 12,581 16,111 37,268
1927.. 35,231 8 „ „ 16,499 18,732 56,000
Investment reserve ( £4000) disappears. . 52,000
1928.. 34,911 8 p.c. = 18,407 16,584 68,584
1929.. 43,534 8 „ „ 21,667 21,867 90,451
Endowment account, £l5OO . . . . 88,951
1930.. 43,680 8 p.c. = 23,866 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8 „ „ 24,133 13,580 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 . . 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
To shareholders the steady 8 p.c. div. comes
like corn out of Egypt. In their hands it is
free of income tax, but subject to wages tax,
and, so far as can be seen, which isn’t very
far these days, the rate does not seem likely
to be interfered with. The co., which is in
the island trading and finance business, was
formed by the Carpenters in 1914. It
plodded along quietly during the war years,
building up connections in the Solomons and
New Guinea. High prices and the develop-
ment of the Mandated Territory provided
new opportunities, of which an alert man-
agement made the most. Approximately two-
thirds of the £301,667 of capital has been
put out during the last decade, and declared
net earnings have averaged i 5.6 p.c. over
the same period. But the board, mindful
of the short, sharp post-war slump, deter-
mined to build solidly, and more was put
by than was distributed.
Last year it was decided to “disclose more
fully the reserves held by the company” ; so
£86,000 that had been unobtrusively tucked
away under the blanket labelled “branch
balances” was brought out and put in the
head-office window. Thus, with £9498 of the
vear’s surplus earnings, the accumulation
there rose to £217,843 at June 30; and ample
provision for contingencies still exists in-
ternally, the chairman says. Continued ex-
pansion of trading activities and judicious
selling in London have to some extent
offset the effects of the persistent fall
in values. Net earnings were only £4082
short of the previous year's at 11.1 p.c. on
capital as against 12.5, 14.6, 20 and 19 p.c.
back to 1928.
During the year a copra store was bought
at Madang and a branch was opened at Wau
on the New Guinea goldfields, where increas-
ing mining activity can be expected
to further expand the co.’s business.
Also, savings have followed the replacement
of a steam by a Diesel-driven vessel, and
another 250-ton motor-ship, now being built
in Australia, is expected to be at work by
the end of this year. The position so far
as balance-sheet figures disclose it is as
follows: —•
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £301,667 £301,667 £301,667
Liabilities .. 12,410 9,655 7,333 8,215
Shipping property 9,530 18,533 16,075 22,668
Plant.. .. 319 1,484 750 517
Mortgages, etc. 69,332 115,002 118,114 120,657
Stocks . . 1,189 3,400 1,238 1,013
Branch balances,
etc 38,764 280,890 261,774 336,358
Cash . . . . 2,901 12,844 45,460 58,577
The spring of £74,584 in branch balances
was due to the disclosure of inner reserves.
Allowing for this, the item Yvas £11,416
lighter than at the previous balance. Thus,
ivitli the year’s surplus earnings, the board
was able to add £13.117 to the cash hold-
ing, £6593 to the book value of shipping pro-
perty and £2543 to mortgages, etc. When
the books closed the parent’s outside liabili-
ties were more than seven times covered by
cash alone.. Everything, of course, depends
upon the position at the branches, and the.
year's disclosures suggest that there is no
cause for anxiety there.
Although the outlook is uncertain there
are breaks in the clouds, and the market
expresses its confidence in the management
by offering 365. for pound ords. (buyers ask
405.) as against 265. a year ago. The return
at 38s. is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Those who look for a shade over 5 p.c. on
their money thus count on a 10 p.c. div.
The visible backing is 345. sd. in net tan-
gibles.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 44,197 10 p.c. =25,000 2,340 16,857 127,641
1922.. 39,628 10 ~ ~25.000 2,907 11,721 139,362
1923.. 46,418 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,855 18,563 157,925
1924-. 47,386 12* „ ~ 31,250 4,007 12,129 170,054
1925.. 54,235 12* „ ~31,250 3,622 19,363 189,417
1926.. 54,181 12* „ „ 31,250 3,732 19,199 208,616
1927.. 52,595 14" „ ~35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO . . . . 240,696
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46,976 12* „ ~31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 12*,, ~ 31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10" „ ~ 25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
This snug ‘ little Rockhampton business has
strong connections out back. During the
fat years the board provided liberally for
contingencies, visibly and otherwise; and
when the books last closed it liad no less
than £200.000 invested in Consols and
another £160,875 represented by freehold
and other investments, including fixed de-
posits. So, despite slump, a 22* p.c.
cut in returns from Government paper, and
stinging increases in taxation, only the
bonus (2* p.c.) lias been dropped, leaving
the div. at 10 p.c., though, according to pub-
lished figures, reserves bad to be tapped for
£6710 iu 1931 to do it.
Still, there may have been a bit more
wheat in the ear than tlie eye could see.
Consider these figures :
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1925. . £138,979 £84,744 I 1929.. £128,432 £81,456
1926.. 148,169 93,988 I 1930.. 124,241 84,061
1927.. 148,900 96.305 | 1931.. 92,044 74,472
1928.. 127,775 90,357 | 1932.. 88,163 60,413
Thus last year’s gross earnings fell away
£3BBl, making the slip 31.3 p.c. since 1929.
But exes., which also include something for
bad debts, etc., were £14,059 lighter, leaving
the net result at 11.1 p.c. on capital as
against 6.4, 14.8, 17, 13.1, 19.3 and 20.2
p.c. back to 1926.
Again, duller trading released more work-
ing capital, which was invested outside the
business: —
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £ 250,000
Liabilities . . 97,971 36,115 30,638 39,762
Stocks.. .. 255,266 208,298 154,819 128,446
Book debts . . 164,467 76,095 46,204 46,119
Cash . . . . 42,478 63,676 51,426 42,078
Freeholds and
investments.. 131,855 243,568 314,291 360,875
Thus last year’s reduction of £26,373 in the
book value of stocks and of £9348 in the
cash holding, together with £9124 added to
the amount coining to sundry creditors,
enabled £46,584 to be added to properties
and investments (£360,875, including Com-
monwealth bonds). The co. is excellently
equipped to enlarge its activities immedi-
ately opportunity offers, and/or adjust capi-
tal to ensure satisfactory divs. from reduced
earnings. Taxation has lowered the net
return on most of the co.’s outside invest-
ments to a little over 2 p.c.
At 295. the pound shares return 6.9 p.c.
on a 1.0 p.c. div. basis, though there is.no
certainty that the 10 p.c. will be maintained.
The backing is 40s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 5623 15 p.c. = 4350 1273 59,061
Share premiums, £6254 .. .. 65,315
1927.. 6981 15 p.c. = 7026 65,270
1928.. 7422 15 „ ~ 7439 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 „ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written oft' investments, £2500.. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO . . 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983. 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off invesements, £lOOO.. 63,567
In its earlier days (it was hatched in 1892)
this little co. was able to supplement its
trustee earnings with nice pickings from
agency business on account of absentees.
Reserves in excess of capital soon accu-
mulated, and divs. and bonuses together
averaged approximately 15 p.c. for the first
quarter of this century. The bonuses (Is.
per share) were mostly capitalised; £ll,OOO
of the then £30,000 of capital had been
provided out of earnings during the 15 years
to Oct., 1925, when the gifts ceased. With an
eye to future business, and to provide funds
for the erection of new premises, £19,593 of
fresh capital, which brought with it £24,458
of share premiums, has since been gathered,
making paid capital £49,593 in 123,983
£1 shares paid to Bs. The premiums were
added to reserves, which were £13,974
in excess of capital when the books last
closed. The div. was kept at 15 p.c.
until 1930 ; it dropped to 10 p.c. for the fol-
lowing year, and to 6 p.c. for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts.
That was because the co.’s corpus and
other earnings have suffered severely from
the fall in, values and from statutory cuts, iu
interest and rents, as the following table
shows: —
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1921.. £3,253,095 £20,197 £14,093 69.8 p.c.
1923.. 3,420,826 22,939 15,912 69.3 „
1925.. 4,039,989 25,548 18,972 74.2 „
1927.. 5,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 „
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7 „
Last year £690,545 of new business was put
on the books ; capital distributions to bene-
ficiaries totalled £628,941, leaving a net in-
crease of £61,604 in trusts in hand. Gross
earnings slipped £4255; exes, were £1422
lighter, leaving the net result at 8 p.c. on
capital as against 13.7, 17, 16.9, 14.9 and
14 p.c. back to 1927. To pay 6 p.c. on capital
as it now stands, the co.’s own funds
(capital and reserves combined) need net
only 2.6 p.c., or 3.5 p.c. to pay an 8 p.c. div.
And that is leaving out of the reckoning
whatever profits there may be from the trust
business, the volume of which can be ex-
pected to grow, but not at the same rate as
of recent years. Thus, the outlook for share-
holders is as bright as anything of the kind
can be in these uncertain times.
At April 30 the co.’s own funds were in-
vested ; £67,389, freeholds; £21,904, mort-
gages ; £16,255, public securities, etc.;
£12,010, book debts and cash. There was
only £4ll coming to creditors. Thus the
cover for the scrip was 18s. 3d. in net
tangibles.
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill and trade-marks .. .. 15,000
Preliminary exes., £1634 .. .. 16,634
1929.. 1582 1277 Nil 305 16,329
1930.. 8139 2250 Nil 5889 10,440
1931.. 7867 2250 4 p.c. = 1350 4267 6,173
1932.. 223 2123 Nil 8,073
This little offshoot of the Jantzen Knitting
Mills, U.S.A., put up a factory to manu-
facture swimming suits at Lidcombe, near
Sydney, about four years ago. Of its
(Continued on page 16.)


m
m
m
m
m
Wm
I
m
m
mi
m
m
■
1
m
te'/M
WA
Start
Change
PLUM
PLUME SETS THE STANDARD
VACUUM OIL CO. L
TD,


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Cotlison, 488 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
RETIREMENT.—Would it not be good to be above
all this worry and turmoil ■? Enough to live on,
three meals and a bed, a pipe and a round of golf.
We all look forward to this or some other hobby.
It can be achieved by a Policy maturing at a
retiring age with a strong reputable Society like
the T. and G. Mutual Life. Ring or write and ask
for particulars of that Retirement Policy at any of
its offices.— Advt. [10
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-81.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s, offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 35 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does l»e possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0 E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOI)
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman!
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capita! .. •• •• •• ‘Jg;™
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
£58,750 of capital, £25,000 in 9 p.c. cum.
prefs. Avas put up locally, the parent took
15,000 fully-paid ords. for rights, and put
up cash for 25,000 (paid to 155.) ; thus
there is £6250 uncalled. For a while demand
ran ahead of production, oAving to early
difficulties with the machines. But the
trouble Avas soon overcome, and, after pay-
ing the pref. div., there was enough to shoAV
3.7.4 p.c. on ord. capital in the second year
and 16.6 p.c. in 1931, when 4 p.c. was paid.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a short summer and the deci-
sion of many to make the old suit do re-
stricted turnover, while competition and
other tilings forced further reduction of
prices. The slip in gross earnings (£24,72.1)
was £21,831, of which £13,915 Avas offset by
savings in exes. (£24,498), leaving £223 of
profit. So reserves had to be tapped for
£l9OO to pay the pref. div., reducing them
to £5426, and raising the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £8073 at
March 31. Rights, etc., not treated as an
asset herein, figured at £13,500.
Finances are comfortable enough:—
1090 IQ'in IQ9I TQQ9
Paid capital .. £82,500 £58,750 £58,750 £58,750
Sundry creditors. . 3,189 7,061 9,173 4,344
Freehold . . 16,070 10,253 15,999 17,081
Plant . . . . 8,052 9,122 9,461 9,423
Stocks . . . . 9,656 13,257 14,184 11,599
Book debts . . 2,120 1,157 1,080 2,052
Cash, etc. . . 3,353 10,592 22,370 14,265
Thus at the close of last accounts outside
liabilities were more than three times cov-
ered by cash, etc., alone. The year’s slip
in the more or less liquid surplus (£23,472,
including stocks) Avas £4995.
The board anticipates better results for
the current year, and gives its assurance
that the pref. div. will be paid. Allowing
for the legislative cut (224 p.c.), the return
at 15s. 6d. is 9 p.c. The scrip is covered
by net tangibles with a book value of £2
ss. 9d.
Merron Estate, Ltd. (In Liq.)
The ex-governing director, H. W. Miller,
has put forward a scheme which has as its
basis the issue to creditors of S p.c. prefer-
ence shares in the Globe Trust and Finance
Co., amounting to something in excess of
the present net tangible value of all the
available assets. The 15,000 ordinaries with-
out any tangible backing are to be retained
by shareholders in the Merron Estate, who
Avould thus benefit when the annual profits
in the Globe Co. exceeded £3.760 (=8 p.c.
on 22,000 profs.). Though the prefs. issued
to creditors would be nominally worth 10s.
per £ of their claims, the liquidator points
out that the net assets value Avould amount
to only 6s. 6d. in the £ (with the payment
already made, this would be 7s. 6d. in full
satisfaction), snd that creditors are entitled
to complete control of the assets up to 20s.
in the £, anyAvay.
On August 31 creditors of the Primary
Producers Bank will receive a further div.
of ss. in the £, making 10s. since liquida-
tion commenced less than a year ago. De-
positors and others look like receiving the
claims in full; even shareholders may get
something out of, it in the end.
Before his departure for London last
week. Malcolm Newman, of Alluvial Tin,
announced that this big Malayan dredging
concern proposes to turn its attention to
gold-dredging in Australia and near-by terri-
tfflries. Alluvial Gold (Oceania), Ltd., a
subsidiary, has been formed for the purpose;
the personnel of the board is identical Avith
that of the parent co. There are 10,000
contributing shares pf £3 each, and the
directors have a call on a further 10,000
shares at par.
For some time past the principal lead and
zinc producers of the Avorld have been con-
ferring in Europe with a view to further
curtailment of production. In these confer-
ences Australia takes a hand. Latest ad-
vices ard that no agreement has been reached
in connection with either lead or zinc. As
practically every producer is operating at a
loss, only those with stout hearts plus big
cash reserves (principally the latter) are
likely to survive a continuance of the present
prices—£9 12s. Od. per ton for lead and
£ll 6s. 3d. per ton for spelter.
Since January of this year the monthly
prices of load and zinc haA r e behaved as
folloAVS: —
Lead. Zinc.
January .. •• £l5 2 l £l4 12 6
February 14 11 3 14 1 7
March . . • • 12 9 9 12 16 4
April 11 7 3 11 16 3
Mav ■ • 10 17 1 12 11 1
, Tu ne 9 15 0 11 14 1
Thus lead and zinc producers are experienc-
ing the same lesson as the tin producers.
The latter thought that curtailment was the
easiest way to financial paradise, but many
arc beginning to Avonder whether it is not
really leading to the other place.
For the four weeks ended June 25 Broken
Hill South treated 27,020 tons of crudes for
4698 tons of lead concentrates assaying
75.5 p.c. lead and 27.80 z. silver. The crude
ore assayed 13.8 p.c. thus giving a recovery
of 94.5 p.c. of lead in the lead concentrates.
The grade is the highest so far obtained by
any of the Barrier cos, Still, with prices,
costs and exchange as they are, the metal is
not profitable.
Commomvealth Mines Development. Syndi-
cate lias elaborate plans for prospecting the
Palmer goldfield (Q.). Improved facilities
for transport should cheapen the work of
testing surface and deep alluvial and the
many reefs knoAvn to occur in the concession.
A feature of the Palmer field is the occur-
rence of gold in the conglomerate, lying on
schists and slates; it is now believed that
narrow A’eins in the slates have been the
main source of gold. The field was dis-
covered in 1873, and in 1878 the output
reached 116,0000 z. The production to date
exceeds 1,300,0000 z. fine, mostly from allu-
vial. The known auriferous area exceeds
2000 square miles.
* * *
Hartley coalmine, near M'ackay (N.Q.),
has again reverted to State ownership. The
Moore Government handed over the mine
to a tribute party with an option to pur-
chase. The tributor asked for a modifica-
tion of the terms, but this was refused, fol-
lowing a change of Government. So when
the option expired on June 28 the mine
re-opened under the old conditions. About
40 men are employed.
Gold production in Papua for the year
ended June, 1931, was 59180 z., valued at
£18,296. New Misima recovered 46990 z.
from 10,879 tons, the other producers being
Mt. Sisa and Ara Creek. The total output
from 1888 to date is 514,0000 z., valued at
£1,775,000, most of which came from the
Murna (206,000 oz.), Louisiade (152,000 oz.)
and Yodda (76,8520 z.) districts. The total
Papuan output exceeded that of New Guinea
by 34,0000 z. to the end of 1931, but the
position will soon be altered now that
Bulolo is at work and Ncav Guinea Goldfields
has taken off its coat.
:i= * * *
“Muffle”; Metalliferous beach sands on
the North Coast of N. S, Wales and the
southern beaches of Queensland continue to
attract attention. The chief contents are
zircon, ilmenite, monazite, rutile and allied
metals. On the market zircon fetches about
£8 per ton, and ilmenite about £2 ss. The
manufactured products are largely controlled
by a European concern holding patented pro-
cesses. Cost of equipment is heavy, and this
has held back Australian producers. Three
electric treatments and one wet chemical
process are necessary before the metals are
marketable. The cost of a plant to treat two
tons daily is over £2000., However, qn
effort is noAV being made to market the Aus-
tralian output of these metals through a
large international co., Avhich will control
the necessary treatment plant. Much de-
pends upon what arrangements can be made
with the shipping cos. in connection with
freights.
“Coff’s”: At Bucca Creek, once a Avell-
known Clarence River (N.S.W.) gold pro-
ducer, several parties on the upper reaches
have struck good stone. One parcel
of 15 tons, put through Henderson’s battery
for the Nutley brothers, returned 230 z. Hen-
derson and Brown at the Perseverance have
also had some nice crushings. The Clar-
ence River Gold Mining and Prospecting Co.
has been busy on the old Taylor’s ReAvard
reef, a noted producer in the past. The
original formation disappeared, and the mine
Avas abandoned. The co. is searching for the
lode Avith a diamond drill, which is now in
blue slate 280 ft. down.
The Burrapine antimony mine (N.S.W.)
is noAV the largest producer of star antimony
in Australia. It lias a lot of contracts in
sand and a ready market. The mine is at Pur-
gatory Creek, two miles from the smelter,
Avhich has a weekly capacity of 25 tons. The
lode varies up to 3ft. in width, and the ore
is a high-grade sulphide, free from objection-
able impurities.
Myrtleford Molybdenite, Ltd., has been
formed to work the molybdenite mine at
Everton (Vic.). The show has been idle
since 1926, wlieii 42 tons of high-grade con-
centrates were produced. World supplies are
now controlled by the Climax Go., of
Colorado; it has sufficient stuff in sight to
look after consumption at the present rate
for the next 200 years. Molybdenite occurs
at Mt. Perry (Q.), Yenberrie (N.T.) and
at numerous localities in N. S. Wales, and
Westralia. The British Government has
been asked to put a duty on Climax molyb-
denite.
* * *
A plant is to be erected to treat 40,000
tons of auriferous tailings at the Bethanga
mine, 14 nines east of Wodonga (Vie.). This
show has been worked on a-small scale since
1876. Refractory ore (14dAVt. gold and 2 p.c.
copper) was the trouble, and operations
ceased about 1911. Several parallel lodes,
loin, wide, are known over distances up to
6000 ft.; ore-shoots range from 40ft. to 600 ft.
in length. The tailings are rich, and much
of the complex mineral has become oxidised.
A London firm has issued a pamphlet deal-
ing with the history and prospects of Wiluna.
It is mostly the translation of au analysis of
the position by a French mining engineer, who
“has gone very thoroughly into the posi-
tion”- —from a distance. He calculates profit
at over £lOO,OOO per annum on the issued
capital of £1,000,000. With an increase in
the yearly tonnage to 500,000, probably in
1933, and assuming the exchange and gold
premium remain unaltered, the working pro-
fit will, he reckons, reach £600,000 in Aus-
tralian currency, or £480,000 sterling.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder showed a net profit of
£35,790 last year as against £4850 for 1930,
and divs. totalled 25 p.c., or double the pre-
vious year’s. At 132,000 tons ore reserves
are 45,000 tons better, hut the grade
(B.ldwt.) is nearly ldwt. less. Since the
books closed there have been important
developments on the X lode on the eastern
side of the main Boulder lease, and their
value has been heavily discounted by the
market. The board has taken advantage
of the market rise in Wilunas, and a fair
profit has been realised on a portion of the
co.’s holding.
* * *
After absence for over a decade Sons of
Gwalia has returned to the dividend list
with a 6d. distribution, and hopes to stay
there. Last year’s surplus was £57,697 com-
pared with £17,797 for 1930. The £76.132
originally borrowed from the Westralian
Government had been reduced to £43,499
at the close of the year, and now stands at
£40,000.
# . * * *
At the Patricia, Edjndina (W.A.), Kim-
berley Options recently got 131 oz. from 82
tons. This followed a crushing of 446 tons
for GOOoz. In May the co. recovered 4700 z.
from 364 tons. The main shaft has been
timbered to 100 ft., and a headframe, air
compressor and sinking pump, to be driven
by a gas plant, have been bought. The ore
is treated at the State battery at Yarri, but
.the co. is thinking of putting up a plant of
its 0AA r n.
Kimberley Options has struck the reef,
which is said to be showing free gold, in a
prospecting shaft north of the present main
workings. Should payable values prove con-
tinuous between the two points the div. stage
may not be far distant; provided, of course,
that a tight rein is kept upon outgoings.
“Peter”: Three months ago boring at
Boulder Perseverance disclosed ore at the
3100 ft level, assaying 20dwt. over Bft. A
winze and drivers have since confirmed bore
results. Noteholders are happy, of course;
they are entitled for some years to half the
prospective profits.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What bonuses were declared on whole of
life policies by National Mutual last year?-
1113.
Bonuses allotted for year to Sept. 30,
1933, on policies effected under table 1 for
whole term of life ranged from £2 4s. per
cent, on those one year in force to £4 per
cent, on those 35 years or more in force. A
bonus is allotted to every policy entitled to
participate, but the policy must be in force
two years before the bonus becomes payable.
Any way in which £2OO can be trans-
ferred to England without having to pay
exchange on it? —946.
No. A couple of years ago some people
purchased shares locally in cos. with a Lon-
don register, and then had their names trans-
ferred to the London register, and sold the
scrip there. But these transfers are no
longer sanctioned by the cos. If you bougin
gold here and took it with you the price
would include the premium.
Is it advisable for me to convert my fully-
paid N.Z. Hempland Bonds into shares?
Would I benefit more from shares than from
bonds?* —849.
There seems nothing to be gained by not
converting. The interest guarantee has
expired, and conversion into shares now is
in accordance with the agreement. If you
don’t convert there is the possibility of your
holding being left unattended.
(1) Paid capital and reserves of Bank of
Ireland? (2) Amount of profits capitalised
and present reserves in Commonwealth Bank ?
(3) Meaning of “discounts ” amongst the
assets in the weekly returns? (4) Why is
“money in London ■” not included in ratio
cash to deposits? (5) Present limit of fidu-
ciary note issue of Bank of England? (6)
, Average clearings Australian banks for last
five years and for 1930?—1023.
(1) Paid capital, £2,769,231; reserves,
£3,480,000. (2) In ordinary banking depart-
ment £4,000,000 of reserves have been capi-
talised ; reserve fund figured at £1,290,818 at
Dec. 31 last. (3) When a trader receives a
bill in payment for goods or services he
usually takes it to the bank and discounts
it. Bills so discounted are included with
advances, etc., in the weekly returns. (4)
Because it is not actual cash in hand. The
money has been lent in the London bill
market at short call, and therefore can be
quickly turned into cash. It is thus an impor-
tant item amongst the bank’s liquid securi-
ties. (5) £275,000,000. (6) Average annual
clearings in each capital city for five years
to 1930 were as follows: Sydney.
£991,860,000; Melbourne, £783,840,000; Bris-
bane, £189,720,000; Adelaide. £812.000.000:
Perth, £106,000,000; Hobart, £26,200,000. In
the same order the 1930 figures Avero
£893,159,000, £725.916.000. £167,963,000.
£125,684,000, £89,032,000, £23,093,000.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.P.M.: Bismuth metal was fetching 4s. Gd. per
pound in London last week-end... .M.W.: If you
have paid the premium the premises are covered
for the amount specified and for the period mentioned
on your premium receipt. You cannot compel the
co. to renew a policy which has expired... .W. 8.:
(1) Yes, provided they are carefully selected to
suit the individual concerned. The market, however,
is likely to fluctuate. (2) Some people desire only
the soundest investments, others are prepared to
speculate. Thus a stock that suits one person may
be quite unsuitable for another. Discuss the matter
fully with your broker.... A,8.: (1) and (2)
Cannot say definitely. The co. does not publish its
figures. It was formed in 1920, but has not yet
paid a div. (3) The call is being made in order
to pay the necessary deposit to the Federal Govern-
ment under the new Act; so apparently finances
are not very robust. (4) Forfeiture will not relieve
you of your legal liability to pay the call. You have
contracted with the co. to pay up to a limited
amount on each share; thus the extent of your
liability is the difference between the amount actually
paid and the limit just referred t 0... .F.W.S.: (1)
Hang on; the co. proposes to take over Cock’s
Pioneer (Vic.), and is being reconstructed for the
purpose. (2) At present prices consols show about
1 p.c. better return. Melbourne Metropolitan branch
of Works or Vic. Government Savings Bank deben-
tures are worth considering. .. .C.AV.T.: List of share-
holders can be inspected at Registrar-General’s
Department on payment of 2s R.H.S.: (1) There
is no reason to doubt the co.’s integrity. Its
earnings are derived from the sale of bonds, and
from commissions on work undertaken on behalf
of those to Avhom the bonds have been sold. Bond-
holders and not the co. shoulder all the risks worth
mentioning. (2) It is a long-term speculation;
rough guesses as to profits to be earned 14 years
hence do not mean much. The “Wild Cat” doubts
whether there will be a shortage of timber in the
future. One of the greatest dangers in nearly all
bond-financed ventures is over-capitalisation....
J.R.M.: Secretary, Bulolo Gold Dredging, Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
THE POSITION OF THE GRAZIER.
The Financier’s Part
Dear B., —I blame the financial houses for
a lot of our troubles. Last year I was
compelled to sign a bill-of-sale (a mortgage
had been in force continuously for 10 years
and the b./s. was in addition thereto), which
had, amongst other iniquitous clauses, the
following: “Provided always and it is
hereby agreed and declared that any mora-
torium which has already been proclaimed,
or which may hereafter be proclaimed, is
expressly excluded from applying to these
presents, and that, notwithstanding any
such moratorium, the said company’s rights,
powers and remedies, whether expressed or
implied, shall be enforceable against the said
mortgagors.” This means that the more you
are in need of relief the more certain you
are not to get it from this financial institu-
tion. The Bulletin has wondered at Lang’s
500,000 votes. If, as I presume, the same
thing has been done in N.S.W. as in Queens-
land, I can account for many of those
votes.—Yours, Muggins (Q.).
Can Wo Do Without Exchange?
Dear B., —Everyone admits that exchange
is adding enormously to our interest bill
abroad. But tne primary producer is flat
out .to it now; without exchange, or some
equivalent, he must crash. That means
default, and all the Enforcement Acts in
Australia will be useless to prevent it. The
question that requires an answer is, what
can we put in the place of exchange and
still keep the primary producer on the job
paying our debts? He is buying in a dear
market (Australia) and selling in a cheap
one abroad, and unless that gap is bridged
(and that pretty soon) I do not see how lie
is to keep going. When some people talk
of reducing costs they simply mean reducing
wages and leaving prices on the skyline.
The workers know this and resist reductions
of wages, because they know that the prices
of the goods they buy are too dear. The
farmer gets the full issue. I feel convinced
that, unless the prices of secondary goods
come down in conformity with primary
prices, we must crash.—Yours, P. Milne
(Tas.).
The Mishandling of Wool
Dear 8.,-—lf a group of graziers bred their
nocks up till they had a wide reputation:
if they then handed them over to a firm of
agents for sale; if they allowed the agents
to fix the price, or auction them any time
they liked; if, further, they protected the
agent by allowing him a good sum per sheep
to cover out-of-pocket expenses, apart from
commission, and no way depending on the
price obtained—if they did these things,
they could be sure of two results. First,
they would always be selling sheep, and,
second, except in very favorable times, their
price would be dashed low. Yet, that is pre-
cisely what we do with our wool and we
expect first-class results. The bad method
of leaving all to the brokers has built up a
frame of mind among the graziers that is
worse even than the low price of wool. Every
second grazier sees ruin in front of him, yet
he only mutters vaguely: “They will have to
do something for us now.” ‘"‘They” appa-
rently are the Government or the banks—
or. somebody else. He has so long stood
aside from the handling of his own product
that he hardly recognises he has any right
to interfere once it leaves the station.
Something will have to be done for us,
but we. will have to do it ourselves. The
depression should have shown the way. In
every branch of trade the article with a
good, well-known name has survived. The
unknown and the cheap have crashed. Why
should not “Australian wool” stand out? We
could sell it at a fixed price, admittedly low
at present, to those who would guarantee to
carry the name “Australian wool” right to
the consumer; and the consumer would pay
for it, as he always has been willing to do. —-
Yours, R. O. (N.S.W.).
The Grazier’s Helplessness
Dear Bulletin, —The other night at a
bush election meeting a sheepman discussed
the .wool question with a Parliamentary
candidate. The sheepman pointed out that,
while he received only sd. per pound for last
season’s clip, woollen yarn was selling in
the local stoi’es for 16s. per pound, and he
promised his vote to the candidate if that
gentleman would do something about get-
ting a better deal for the seller of raw wool.
The candidate gave his promise and a hearty
handshake with it, and the squatter went
away apparently satisfied that he had done
all a sheepman could. This squatter will
take off 100,0001 b. of wool next season,
which will net him 100,000 fivepencos ;• the
public will pay 100,000. sixteen shillings,
barring the politician’s benevolent interfer-
ence. which is not likely to amount to much.
If the squatter’s vote is the only card he has
to play against the obvious ‘robbery that
goes on somewhere, and if he is typical of
the majority of other sheepmen, which he
seems to be, judging by the treatment we are
standing, then—well, I begin to think more
of the sheep than of their owners.—Yours.
COMBARDLO ( Q.) .
The Wail of the Grazier
Dear B., —What do our friends the
graziers want? Every time they mention
their industry it is to say they cannot pos-
sibly carry on, and they go into figures to
prove it. But always there is a conspicuous
item: “Interest on capital.” How many
city businesses do they think could show a
profit in excess of “interest on capital”?
Many of them not only are not earning any
interest, but are consuming capital. Let a
grazier look up the records of manufactur-
ing cos. like General Industries or trading
cos. like Mark Foy’s. and he will realise
that the concern which is earning interest
on its entire capital is very lucky these days.
What seems to me to be the matter with the
grazing and farming industry is that the
people who supply the bulk ‘of the capital
are hardly ever the reputed owners. The
latter are in the same position as ordinary
shareholders, who have pref. shareholders
(the bank) standing in ahead of them.
Naturally there isn’t anything left for them
these days. An estate in which I am inter-
ested holds ordinary shares in 14 cos., of
which at present two are paying dividends.
I don’t want to be unkind to my grazier
friends, but I do wish they would realise
that they are not the only sufferers in this
crisis; I doubt whether those who are un-
encumbered (that is, who really own their
properties) cannot still show a profit in most
cases.—Yours etc., Merchant (N.S.W.).
The Position of Wool
Dear B., —Last week in the Sydney wool
market average prices fell below sd„ or in
English currency 3|d., or on a gold basis a
fraction below 3d. I sold “crutchings” and
late-shorn lambs’ wool, and the proceeds did
not realise enough to pay freight and hand-
ling charges, to say nothing of shearing and
other costs. President Tout, of the Graziers,
says the position is “tragic,” but is it any
more tragic than the utter futility of the
various associations and wool councils and
other rest-houses for worn-out ideas? What’s
the use of harping on getting costs back
to a pre-war basis? It simply can’t be done
except by a straight-out repudiation of our
commitments. Any normal adjustment of
costs will not bring us much relief, and we
know there are many ways of circumventing
legislation designed to help hard-up growers.
As a woolgrower I am sceptical of the
alleged benefits of the exchange rate in
maintaining values. There is no world-
parity in wool prices, and as Australia is
responsible for three-fifths of the world’s
production of fine-quality merino wool, she
is in a commanding position.
Carefully handled exchange should help
us, but I’m afraid it is now a source of
weakness; by prostituting the Australian
currency overseas, buyers and manufacturers
can “bear” the world’s values. And that
seems to me what is happening.
The statistical position of wool is abso-
lutely sound; its increased production is
not keeping pace with normal consumption.
It is incomprehensible to me why Tout and
co„ having signally failed to stop the rot.
should so stubbornly oppose the appointment
of an impartial commission to investigate
the troubles of the industry, and consider
possible stabilisation schemes for its rehabi-
litation. If something is not done soon the
lid will be off—about next September.—
Yours etc., An Old Grazier (N.S.W.).
Costs of Production
Dear Bulletin, —There is little or no
organisation of graziers, and when a drought
comes along we don’t try to help one another
to any great extent. Bill Smith is jambed
for feed: Jack Jones has plenty, and he
makes Bill Smith pay through the nose for
agistment, or else buys his shhep for next
to nothing. If the buyers are combined and
not giving us full value for our wool, they
are only doing what we do to each other,
given the opportunity. It stands to reason
that our brokers, who are also very largely
our bankers, get the best prices obtainable
for our wool, as increased debt and de-
creased value of security eventually mean
a bad debt; also the higher the prices the
more commission and more profit. Apart
from commission, which rises and falls with
the market, the only other brokers’ charge
is |d. per pound for warehousing, which is
high these times, especially on low-grade
wool. Possibly one or two banks might be
able to cut their losses and remain solvent
if the wool industry went bung, but it is
very doubtful if any wool-broking firm could.
The brokersi fell into line with Mr.
Moore’s proposal for reduced interest in
return for reduction of rent and extension
of leases; also any reduction of steamer and
rail freights has come through the represen-
tations of the wool-broking firms. Rail
freights are decidedly excessive. It is
cheaper to send wool by road 200-odd miles
to Normanton, and ship from there to Bris-
bane, than send 60-odd miles to Julia Greek,
thence by rail to Townsville and then by
boat to Brisbane.
I dare say we ourselves are largely to
blame for the trouble we are in. Our poli-
ticians led the way and we followed joyfully
and didn’t take much notice of anyone who
advised us to watch our step. We have
been awakened rather forcibly; but poli-
ticians still seem to think money grows on
trees, manured by “release of credits” and
inflation, overlooking the fact that our
present troubles were caused by too much
credit and inflation of values in the boom
years.—Yours, J. L. Lipscomb (Q).
*
Costs of Wheat-growing
Dear Bulletin, —“Accountant” (B.
6/7/’32) hits the nail on the head when
he mentions interest charges on high-priced
land as the farmer’s biggest slug. But the
N.S.W. farmer, at any rate, is not alto-
gether to blame for getting himself into this
mess; a good deal of the responsibility must
be apportioned to Government Savings Bank
valuators, whose ideas of values were often
in excess of the vendor’s. I know many
farmers who have obtained under Section 64
the maximum advance of £3OOO on 600-acre
farms; this entails a half-yearly payment of
£lO6 for interest and amortisation for 31
years. The maximum area that can be safely
cropped is 280 acres, after allowing 20
acres for fodder, and on present wheat
values eight bushels per acre or 65 per
cent, of the gross proceeds on an average
yield are earmarked for the G.S.B. (Rural
Bank). No farmer can possibly carry this
load. Latest figures available show total
advances to settlers at over 26 million
pounds; outstanding payments 14J million
pounds. There must be a general scaling
down of these over-valued lands and the
work should be carried out by impartial
valuators. —Yours etc., Valerin (N.S.W.).
Our Comic-opera Country
Dear B.. —Australia’s five main sources of
wealth —wheat, wool, butter, cheese and
meat—are all lower on the world’s markets
than they were in 1914. But wages are
about 80 p.c. higher. The dairyman is the-
best off of the bunch, as he is not hampered
by awards. Consequently there are men doing
harvesting and dairying for a few shillings
per week and tucker, sooner than keep on
tramping. There are girls, too, doing milk-
ing and housework for 10s. per week and
keep, and they have to fee ou-t in muddy
yards for two hours at least each morning
and evening—and seven days a week at
that. Yet if wages were any higher the
industry could not pay them under present
conditions. The man in the city, with his
artificially propped-up job, gets the benefit
of this labor, and the girls on 10s. per week
have to buy clothing, etc., that was manu-
factured at a wage about six times greater
than their own,, if hours are taken into
account. Are we being fair to one another?
—Yours, Sylvester (Vic.).
Prices and Wages
Dear Bulletin, —Australia depends more
upon its primary producers than almost any
other country. They bring into existence
most of the wealth which keeps us going.
Secondary industries, which do not export
their products, add no more to the wealth
than those useful members of the community
who take in washing. We all live, directly
or indirectly, upon primary producers.
If this is so, the amount of wealth brought
' into existence in Australia in aiiy one year
represents the amount upon which its people
should live during a year. If this total
wealth (total amount of wool, wheat, etc.,
taken at world prices) be divided by the
total population of Australia the result
would represent the average wealth per head
produced in that year. This works out
at between £4O and £5O per head, and is
the average amount available for the sup-
port of each individual in the Common-
wealth.
If this figure, calculated yearly, were
taken as an index number, and all money
payments—salaries, wages, interest rates,
retail prices, taxes and other internal finance
—-were varied year by year with this index
number, according to a determined scale, in-
ternal living conditions would be much more
independent of world-price fluctuations. A
drop in primary-production values would
cause a drop in internal prices all round,
and the purchasing power of wages, for
example, would be more constant.
External financial relations and the prices
of imported goods would not, of course, be
affected in any way, though indirectly the
balance of trade would tend to be stabilised.
In a lean year we would have to be con-
tent with less on account of our reduced
purchasing power of imported articles, but
this would be all to the good. Local
secondary products would, in a lean year,
with its lower index number, cost less to
produce, and would compete more success-
fully with imported goods.—Yours truly,
D. A. (Vic.).
The Unskilled Army
Dear Bulletin,—lt is not the man on
the ordinary basic wage who has crippled
industry; it is the militant trade-union boss
who has had a stranglehold on our transport
and key industries, and has so forced up
prices that the poor devil on the basic wage
has found it almost impossible to live. Brick-
layers, carpenters, plumbers, etc., have got
so high a wage and have done so little for
it that rent has been a cruel imposition on
the working man. The butchering trade is
another. We shall not get out of our diffi-
culties until the great majority—consisting
of the men on the basic wage or a little
above it—realise that they have been sacri-
ficed by the union bosses of the more or less
skilled trades.—Yours, Sanity (Vic.).
Wages Are Not Everything
Dear Bulletin, —Why should wages and
the public service be the only things to be
shot at in these times? There are other
targets asking for attention.
In no country in the world have real
wages been reduced so much as by our
Commonwealth Court. In no country, as far
as can be ascertained, have Governments cut
their expenditure so much as in Australia.
True, in no country were these cuts so much
required as in Australia. So far, good. But
what next?
What is private enterprise doing to fol-
low this lead? Is it doing anything except
resist cuts — e.g., the banks? Why are bank
interest rates so high in Australia? Is there
any reason except slowness to move and
competition between financial institutions?
Why can’t our rates fall as overseas? There
is plenty of money on deposit. (The Com-
monwealth Savings Bank has come down.
The British Post Office Savings Bank rate
did not change from 2| per cent, through
the boom years. Our savings banks have
made a merit of making the rate high, and
this has dominated long-term loan rates.)
How are wage rates to come down in
Queensland unless the employers ask for
it? There has been no such move for over
12 months despite the Premiers’ Plan. How
much have bank overdraft rates really been
reduced; e,g., the Bank of N.S.W. said it
had reduced them on the average; but did
it reduce rates it couldn’t get and average
things out that way? Are no tariff costs
to be cut?
Finally, what is private enterprise offer-
ing to employ if wages are cut more? What
is it suggesting to get spending restarted?
And if private enterprise won’t spend, indi-
vidually or by voluntary association, what
are we to do about it? If private people
won’t spend. Governments must. —Yours.
Economist (Q.).
N.S.W. Tramways
Dear Bulletin, —The belated statement
on the N.S.W. tramways (B. 6/7/’32)
conceals as much' as it uncovers. It was
not Maddocks’s representations that brought
about his dismissal. The real point was
that three bodies of men were doing the work
of one body, with the addition-of approxi-
mately £47,000 to the tramway losses. An
excellent police clerk did not make an ideal
tramway commissioner. “Ninepence in the
pound” is not deducted from our pay for
superannuation purposes ; if it was ‘there
would be no trouble about finances on that
score. A little over a. third of that amount
is deducted, With the result that no one
is satisfied—an employee after paying for 20
years gets about as much as an old-age pen-
sioner. The railway passes provided are
charged up to us at the Arbitration Court.
We have repeatedly offered to forego these
privileges in return for half the depart-
mental estimate, but the department is too
shrewd to let such easy money go. The
departmental charges for the tramway passes
are a wonderful legal swindle. While it is
true that the wages staff is a contributory
cause of the tramway losses, it is. a minor
cause. We, as a union, have asked repeatedly
for a select committee to inquire into
methods employed by the Maddockses of the
service, all to no purpose. Mr. Lang’s reply
to our last representations was illuminating.
He said, “There is no necessity for an in-
quiry. I will appoint good Labor men, who
will do things.” We got a Goode, although
we bitterly fought the appointment. The
tramway losses go much deeper than wages.
If ever a Government gives us that inquiry,
we will bring evidence of colossal waste that
will surprise even The Bulletin.—Yours,
A Team Conductor (N.S.W.).
What’s Wrong with Australia?
Dear B., —The “Australian in New
Guinea” (B. 29/6/’32) is not correct when
he says it is the Australians that are the
matter with Australia. Let me tell my
story. When, I was a lad I decided to go
to sea. At that time, just after the war, it
wasn’t so difficult to get a ship. “Billy
Hughes’s ships” were going strong then —
about 40 of them—and I suppose there were
a hundred or more ships on the Australian
register going deep-sea. Well, everything
went good for a while. I made a couple
of voyages, and each time I returned to
home port I was the idol of the girls in
our neighborhood. Then the foreigners
started getting the wrinkles out of their
bellies. Ships were held up on the hour of
departure, passengers aboard and all, be-
cause some fireman was a fixture in the bar
of some waterfront pub, and the black gang
would not sail without him. Or Mr. Yacob
Yohanson was aboard that day. No wonder
to-day there are less than a dozen Aus-
tralian ships :going deep-sea.
But it was hot the work of Australians
at all, this smashing up of the Australian
mercantile, marine. At least 80 per cent,
of our ships’ crews were foreigners. And
when I say “foreigners” I include the Eng-
lish, Scotch and Irish; they were foreign
to Australia and everything Australian.
That’s why to-day Australians such as Alan
Villiers and I have either to sign aboard
foreign ships or grow cauliflowers for three-
pence a dozen.
We’ve too many foreigners, or they’ve got
too damn much to say; that’s what’s wrong
with Australia.—Yours, C. L. (Q.).
Hangings and Politics
Dear Bulletin, —The death penalty is
again receiving the attention of the more
serious-minded. Both retention and aboli-
tion have many adherents, and the argu-
ments on both sides seem paradoxically un-
answerable. However, as a legal practi-
tioner, I am not so much concerned with all
that, because the matter is quite definitely
settled, and by statutory enactment the death
penalty is the penalty to be inflicted upon
conviction in certain cases. What, however,
does call for immediate attention is the
practice of allowing political policy to dic-
tate whether the sentence should be carried
into effect or not.
No matter what his capital offence may be
or how dreadful the circumstances, a person
will not suffer the full penalty whilst Party
A is in power, so long as lie is convicted
during that party’s term of office; but should
he be convicted whilst Party B is in power
a human being’s life becomes but a grain of
dust in the whirligig of politics. Thus a
man who is quickly convicted during the term
of office of Party A will retain his life, where-
as another person who commits a capital
offence at the same time, but whose defence
is protracted and whose conviction takes
place after the coming into office of Party
B, may suffer the full penalty. Surely some
definite policy should be laid down for all
parties to honor. —Yours, Nod (N.S.W.).
Segregation of Public-Service Vote
Dear Bulletin,—The suggestion (B.
4/5/’32) of segregating the public-service
vote was tried in Victoria. An Act of 1903 gave
public officers one member and the, railway
officers two members in the Assembly. In in-
troducing the measure then Premier Irvine
said the existing system had enabled a small
section of the community “to exercise and
maintain an overweening political control
over the affairs of this country.” Neverthe-
less separate representation was abolished
in 1907, on the ground that the public ser-
vants were strongly opposed to it (they
would be!), and that there was no longer
any need of it. The scheme was successful
while it lasted, but the example shows the
difficulty of making it permanent where one
party hopes to gain an advantage from the
public-service vote. —Yours, W. H.
Tobacco-growing in Papua
Dear Bulletin, —Papua is one of the
natural homes of the tobacco plant, and. as
Papua is part of the Commonwealth and is
in receipt of a yearly subsidy of £40,000
from the Federal Government, the obvious
market for its tobacco is Australia. But
the market is closed by a prohibitive tariff.
Within the last eight months the Papuan
Government twice made, representations to
Canberra on behalf of a pioneering tobacco-
growing concern, asking for a preference
over foreign countries. It was pointed out
that Papua is part of the Commonwealth,
supported by the Australian taxpayer, and
that a reasonable preference would perhaps
mean the beginning of a large and profitable
industry; also that Papua, with the bottom
fallen out of two staple commodities (copra
and rubber), is urgently in need of a new
industry. The reply in both cases was iden-
tical—the matter was being given con-
sideration. They have apparently been con-
sidering it ever since, for the Papuan
Government has heard no more of the
matter. Meanwhile the pioneering concern
has produced a splendid crop just behind
Port Moresby, which is being sent to the
English market, as the growers can no
longer afford to await the decision of the
procrastinating authorities at Canberra. It
would be a near-sighted policy should the
fact that the tobacco was grown by black
labor prevent those responsible from assist-
ing Papua in every way possible, when that
country is being expensively supported by
the Australian taxpayer. And particularly
when, as in this case, the assistance would
not harmfully affect Australia, which is still
and must be for years a large importer of
leaf. —Yours. Ebrol Flynn (Papua).


“A Sure Friend in Uncertain Times”
“•"THESE Bonuses prove it again, Bennett!
1 The A.M.P. is a wonderful institution!
The man who does not Assure his life in
the A.M.P. misses a great opportunity.
It is a money-maker for its members! ”
“TJERE is a policy taken out in
El 1903 for £5OO. 1 pay an annual
premium of £lO/18/9. The bonus this
year is £l9/2/-. The total bonus is now
£415/4/-. It is more than satisfactory,
and the cost of such a policy is within
the means of every man, rich or poor.’
New members are gladly welcomed.
Full particulars sent anywhere on request.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in the Capital and Principal Cities of
Australia and New Zealand.
'"W&s
.S&,
<w-
JS
a
H 3 OAM A*#
li & *<w* tv ft \
f..
m
m
v:
!• §
-^3of
'.g-js***-- M
%
/
l
rj.
i..
#
&
I 1
#
g@M
as
;•>
me
l
a-
&
m
;•- *:
fj&}
,'S£-
V
&
a
a
\
&
it
m
m
»< *•
1
i ; :-V= "f-v
. r.
AMP
assets £86,600,000. The largest Mutual Life
Gives best possible con trad, office in the Empire
ẅ


LIFE INSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
THE BLIND MARKSMAN.
The more mutual insurance was inquired
into, after the pioneering A.M.P. had proved
that it was practicable, the more attractive
it became. It was seen to offer a way of
removing half the tei'rors of death from
the man with dependants. Death is a blind
marksman. Nobody knows whether the
next victim will be in infancy, the prime
of life or tottering old age. No man knows
when he marries whether he will live long
enough to provide for the maintenance and
education of his children. But if sufficient
people come together, and their ages are
known, it is possible to say how many years
on the average they will live. Some will
live a year, some five years, some 10, some
perhaps 60 or 70; but statistics kept over
a great many years enable the actuary to
tell each person’s “expectation of life”—
that is, how long on the average a person
of that age lives. It is on this knowledge
the life-assurance office is built.
A man desires to provide for his widow
and children in case of his death—which
may come early or late. The actuaxy says:
“The law of averages tells me that you will
live, say, 20 years. You want to leave your
dependants £5OO. Well, then, you must
pay in quarterly or otherwise a sum which
at compound interest will produce £5OO in
20 yeai’s.” But it will cost something to
manage the business; therefore, a small sum
must be added to the premium—that is,
the quarterly or other payment. This is
called the “office loading.” This man may
not live 20 yeai’s. No matter; others will
live longer than 20 years. The fortunate
thus help the unfortunate.
WAILS OF THE FORTUNATE.
A letter typical of hundreds that reach
The Bulletin Service Department came
as the preceding paragraph was being
written, and it well illustrates a very com-
mon confusion of mind as to what a life
office can and cannot do. The letter ran
this way:—
What is wrong with our insurance companies?
My wife at 13 years of age was persuaded to take
out a policy. She has paid in all £B2, but her
return will be only £6B. She has not derived one
penny benefit to date. What is the reason ?
A friend took out a policy the annual premium
on which was £l9 os. lid. ; after seven years he
wished to secure an advance and was offered £5O
at 8 per cent.—l per cent, more than bank over-
draft; the surrender value was ( set down at £B5.
Two brothers were persuaded to take a thousand
pound policy each, and paid premiums totalling
£234 each, when they were unable to continue, and
lost all.
Now, though the policy-holders mentioned
by this correspondent have not died within
the early years of their policies, there are
thousands who have. The full face value
of the lady’s policy would have been paid
had she been run over by a motor-car and
killed the day after her policy had been
issued; and if any sickness or other benefits
were included, they have been available to
her all along. She might have been one
of those constantly calling for these
benefits; it was her good fortune that she
was one of the few who escaped. The same
is true of the friend who finds his policy
worth so much less than he expected it to
be. Usually it is the unfortunate who weep;
in this insurance matter the lamentation
always comes from the fortunate.
Hundreds of people leave off paying
premiums and think that ends the matter.
Insurance is better than that. As long ago
as 1869 the National Mutual office was
formed with three outstanding principles:
(1) No member’s policy will be allowed to
lapse on account of non-payment of any
premium so long as it has a surrender
value sufficient to pay the premium over-
due; (2) no member will be compelled to
pay a higher premium than that opposite
his age in the table of rates; (3) the age of
members will be taken as at nearest birth-
day. The inquirer mentioned above re-
ported that two brothers had paid £234
each, but then were unable to pay and lost
all. They need not have lost all. If it was
an office of any repute it would have issued
paid-up policies; certainly it will be found
that the surrender value was used to keep
the policy alive long after the last pre-
mium was paid.
WHERE BONUSES COME FROM.
Because he knows all about the law of
averages, an actuary can tell how much a
person of such-and-such an age must pay
by quarterly or other instalments to pro-
duce a given amount in any given period.
To this amount a life office adds a small
“loading” for office expenses.
When these instalments or premiums are
paid they are invested as opportunity
offers; and if they earn more interest than
the actuary assumed that they would earn
when he calculated what premium would be
necessary, then there is something over at
the end of the year.
Also, as to the something added for ex-
penses : if these exes, are actually more
than had been assumed, then there may not
be enough left to cover what is called the
policy liability. Every year a certain sum
must be put by towards meeting the policy
when by death or otherwise it becomes
a claim. If the office hasn’t got that much
—if. brother words, more than the “office
loading” has been spent in expenses—then
some makeweight has to be put among
the assets. Generally it is called “Business
extension account” or “Development
account.” But whatever it is it means
that the office has that much less in tan-
gible assets towards paying claims under
policies than it should have. On the other
hand, an office may work so cheaply that
something is left over at the end of the
year.
We saw just now, too, that the actuary
knows from statistics how long on an aver-
age people live. But if you went through
the crowd and turned this one aside because
he had cancer, and this one because some
organ or other was diseased, and that one
because he had a bad family history, you
.would find that the average expectation of
life of the selected group was several years
higher. If, therefore, an office can beat
the “expectation of life” table on which
it has based its premiums, it won’t have
td pay out, on an ayerage, for months or
possibly years after it had calculated upon
doing so. This favorable “mortality ex-
perience” means that (1) it will collect
more premiums than it had reckoned on;
(2) will earn more interest on the accumu-
lated fund than it had reckoned on.
So it will have something over at the
end of the year from three sources: (1)
interest; (2) expenses; (3) mortality experi-
ence. And that is where bonuses come
from.
HOW POLICIES DIFFER.
It is because some offices are very much
better managed than others, and especially
because some offices can win new policies
for very much less than others, that some
can pay very much better bonuses than
others. Indeed, some offices are not only
not able to pay any bonuses at all, but are
kept going by eating their share capital
(if they have any) or their insurance fund.
If they go on doing this they will not be
able to pay their policy-holders’ claims.
Far too many people still think that one
life insurance policy is as good as another.
Each undertakes to pay a certain amount on
death or in a given number of years in
return for so much paid quarterly or other-
wise. Sometimes the unsoxmd office is able
to show that it charges a smaller premium
than “any of these old offices.” Ay art,
however, from the fact that you are reason-
ably sure of getting the
money from one office
and not at all sure of
getting it from another,
the bonuses must be
taken into account. It
is not the premiums in
the table that matter;
it is the net premiums—
the premiums less
bonuses.
These bonuses can be
collected in cash, and in
America that plan is
favored. In Australia
an overwhelming pro-
portion of bonuses are
used to purchase addi-
tional insurance. . Here,
for example, is a whole-
life policy taken out to-
wards the end of 1904
for £4OO. At the end of
1931 the bonus additions
to the policy were £321
14s. Another, an endow-
ment policy for £5OO,
taken out at the same
time—payable at 70 or
earlier death—is now a
policy for £856 18s. The
premiums for the extra
£356 18s. of insurance
have been provided out
of bonuses. It really
means that, thus far 12s.
in the £ of premiums
has paid for the amount
of insurance mentioned
in the policy; the other
Bs. has been available
for the purchase of addi-
tional insurance.
This shows how neces-
sary it is to consider
very carefully every in-
surance proposition, see-
ing how enormously the
results vary.
NEW VIGOR IN LIFE
OFFICES.
Most of the weak,
struggling offices have
suffered severely during
the past 2j years; but
the older and more solid
offices have done sur-
prisingly well so far as
new business is con-
cerned. Yet this is
quite easily explained.
That man is very fortu-
nate indeed who has not
either himself suffered
heavy losses since the
beginning of 1930 or
seen his closest friends
suffer. Men who be-
lieved they had made
ample provision for their
dependants have seen
the bottom fall out of
their investments; busi-
ness men who had, as
they though t, made
arrangements for paying probate have seen
those arrangements crash. There is only one
way in which a man can protect his family in
such circumstances, and that is by insurance.
A payment of a few pounds will ensure
for them something substantial even
though death should call upon the head
forthwith. There never was a time in Aus-
tralian history when life assurance has
offered so much ease of mind to business
and professional people.
Looking back over the past two years one
other rather striking development has taken
place. We have seen how in its early days
mutual life insurance was not regarded as
quite an ordinary business. Those in
charge of it did not feel justified in spend-
ing much money in pursuit of new policies.
A few old-fashioned offices did not canvass
at all, and 30-odd years ago the question
was discussed whether that was not the
right course for the N.Z. State Insurance
Department to follow.
The mutual offices were, however, soon
supplemented by co-operative offices, of
which the Citizens was the first in Aus-
tralia. These had some paid-up capital,
which the shareholders offered as a guaran-
tee that (1) the policies would be paid
and (2) the business would be done at a
certain maximum cost. In return, the co.
asked for part of the profit: that is to say,
the amount available for bonuses would
be divided between policy-holders and share-
holders, usually in the proportion of four
to one. The shareholders who managed the
business were thus interested in making
progress; and the competition woke the
mutual offices to greater activity.
This was highly desirable. The post-war
boom had produced a large crop of offices,
most of them with hardly a hope of pulling
through, and at the best quite incapable of
earning bonuses for many years to come.
These concerns, with some capital to spend,
raked the country for business, and in the
aggregate wrote many thousand policies.
The people canvassed in most cases did
not know what they were signing; and
in nine cases out of ten were soon dis-
appointed with results. They did not blame
themselves; as a rule, they concluded that
insurance was, if not a fraud, at, any rate
a near relation to it. The great offices were
slow to realise their responsibilities; but
most of them have now done so, and have
taken steps to put themselves more promi-
nently before the people. The life-insurance
advertising of to-day was practically un-
known in Australia three years ago. The
A.M.P. was a pioneer in this field.
In America the great offices go further.
We have seen how the profits of life offices
are made—how one of the most fruitful
sources is the selection of specially healthy
people. But people quite healthy on ex-
amination may become hopeless wrecks
within a few years. Some American, offices
therefore carry on a continuous health
campaign. They distribute information
regarding the early detection of most dis-
eases, with advice as to what is best to
do to defeat them. Australian offices are
trending the same way.
POLICIES TO MEET THE TIMES.
Service has become ■ the keynote of
modern business; and nowhere does the
public get more of it than in life insur-
ance. Sure now of their figures, offices can
offer things which their forefathers would
not have dared approach. Yet it is the
pretty general experience that the old,
simple policies are still the most popular.
Of all the A.M.P.’s new business in 1931
no less than 91 p.c. was taken on the
society’s well-known A (whole-life) and J
(endowment) tables. Still the A.M.P.’s
table O has had attention because of the
circumstances of the times. It guarantees
the widow, if she survives the assured, a
certain income for life, and the full sum
assured is paid at her death. There is a defi-
niteness about this which is very attractive.
The increase in what is known as “group”
assurance has also been one of the notable
features of the A.M.P.’s recent experience.
The “group” scheme has the great advant-
age of small premiums, usually deductible
from the assured’s salary, monthly or fort-
nightly, combined with full assurance bene-
fit and participation in bonuses in accord-
ance with premiums paid.
Another application of life assurance to
which this society has devoted special atten-
tion of late is for the restoration of depre-
ciated assets and the provision of liquid
(Life Insurance continued on page 21. )
THE PADDED GLOVES.
DEATH (to the Devil): “This business of mine isn’t what it used to be.”
DEVIL: “You’re right, Death. Between morphia and life insurance they have robbed you of your
punch.”


Jj
-
m
'.. M
mtr
m
m
Let Returning Confidence
in this Richly-endowed
Country Express itself in
the Best of all Ways . . .
A Prudential Assurance Policy
Any age—any amount
any term ......
A Prudential Policy
for every need.
Sums Assured
Assets - - -
Life Policies
in force
£712,622,738
£255,793,860
28,000,000
Write for particulars to:
The Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
(OF LONDON)
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
HERALD BUILDING, 66 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
’Phones: 8W2885 (3 (lines) C. F. WARREN, F.1.A., General Manager for Australia and New Zealand


Assurance and Thrift
Association, Limited.
This office 20 years ago systematised in Australia the granting of
House-Purchase Loans in conjunction with Life Policies, which has
largely developed and operated satisfactorily.
By avoiding heavy outlay for new business it has declared Bonuses
to policy-holders and Dividends to shareholders from the
commencement, being the only office commenced in the last 30
years in Australia to do so. The growth of the funds is as follows:
The Bonuses per cent, allocated at the last valuation for each year the policies
hdd been in force since the previous valuation were as follows:
DURATION OF POLICIES.
Five Years Ten Years
Under and and Fifteen Years
Five Years. Under Ten. Under Fifteen. and Over.
WHOLE OF LIFE . . £2 0 0 £2 2 0 £2 4 0 £2 6 0
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCES £1 14 0 £1 16 0 £1 18 0 £2 0 0
CHILDREN’S ENDOWMENTS (irrespective of duration): Table Dx, £l/12/-
LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION
BUSINESS UNDERTAKEN.
GOOD REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED IN COUNTRY
DISTRICTS. APPLICATIONS INVITED,
Directors:
The HON. SIR ELLIOT JOHNSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
F. A. CORNER, Esq. WM. R. DOVEY, Esq., F.F.A., A.1.A., J.P.
R. G. RENNIE, Esq., J.P. J. WHITSED DOVEY, Esq.
Offices: 4 Dailey Street, Sydney;
405 Collins Street, Melbourne
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia Limited
Established 1869.
HAS NO SHAREHOLDERS, IS PURELY MUTUAL, and CONDUCTED FOR
THE BENEFIT OF POLICY-HOLDERS ONLY.
ORIGINATOR OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS NON FORFEITURE PRINCIPLE.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE . . £84,000,000
FUNDS £35,000,000
REVERSIONARY BONUSES ADDED TO
POLICIES AT SEPTEMBER 30, 1931,
EXCEED . . . , .. . £22,000,000
YOU WILL BE INTERESTED IN THE LATEST AND MOST
UP-TO-DATE POLICY OF INCOME ASSURANCE.
It is designed to provide, at a minimum cost, the maximum protection to the
family of a deceased breadwinner.
The holder of such a Policy is assured that, if his death occur during the
time when under ordinary circumstances his family responsibilities are greatest,
his _ family wall immediately receive ilie money needed to defray the expenses
incidental to his illness and death, and will he provided during the trying years
following his death with a substantial and absolutely safe income and 'with a
Capital Sum at the expiry of the income-payment period.
Additional accidental death benefit or waiver of premium benefit may be
added if desired, making an ideal form of protection.
An important feature of this improved Policy is that at the expiration of the
selected term the premium payable will be reduced to the premium for the ordinary
Assurance Benefit at the original age at entry. The value of this reduction cannot
be over-estimated, especially as the premium payable during the selected term is
little more than that which in many cases of Income Assurance Policies is payable
throughout the Whole Term of the Policy.
ILLUSTRATION
The following is an illustration of the benefits that will accrue if death
occur at the end of (say) one year from the commencing date of the policy,
assuming the selected term to be 20 years, the Capital Sum Assured £2OOO
and the Accidental Death Benefit to be included.
Bonuses will be allotted to the Policy, and these will, if vested, be payable
immediately on proof of death. Under existing conditions no reliable estimates
of future bonuses can be given by any Life Assurance Company or Institution.
Write for leaflet, and forward your date of birth, when full particulars will be
furnished free of any obligation.
OFFICE: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
funds to meet probate duties—the circum-
stances to which attention was drawn
previously. During the past few months
the A.M.P. has thus issued many big poli-
cies—one for £50,000, one for £17,500, two
for £15,000 each and six for £lO,OOO each.
“With large amounts gone west in business
concerns,” one of those clients wrote, “and
but little prospect of recouping myself for
such losses, I have turned again to life
assurance as an investment, as well as to
make for my family that provision which
has been lost elsewhere.”
The M.L.C. has been meeting the special
circumstances with a Family Income
policy, whose attractive features include a
guaranteed income of 12 p.c. p.a. of the
sum assured from the date of death until
the expiration of a selected period from
the commencement of the policy, in addi-
tion to payment of the full sum assured
at the end of the selected income period.
This policy offers great attractions in the
event of early death. For a £lOOO policy
the annual premium for one 25 next birth-
day would be £26 9s. 2d., the premium to
cease at age 65 or previous death. For this
Is. sjd. per day, in the event of death
within the first year there is offered £lO
per month’ for 19 years, plus £lOOO at the
end of 19 years plus the reversionary bonus
for one year. The monthly income is also
increased by any surplus interest earned
in excess of p.c. If this policy-holder
lived to be 65 the £lOOO plus bonuses would
be available to provide an income for old
age either by investment or, by purchase
of an annuity. On the basis of the past
40 years’ experience the bonuses to be
added to the policy would be £BO5, making
the total payable £lBO5.
The M.L.C. is also issuing a “Conces-
sion” policy. This goes out at the table
rates (whole-life or endowment), but if
death takes place during the first three
years the sum payable under the contract
will be doubled. Bonus additions do not,
however, commence until after the expiry
of the third year.
The Australian Metropolitan, while push-
ing old-table insurance, is also vigorously
bringing under notice its “monthly income
assurance.” Under any one of three tables
a policy will ensure payment of a monthly
income for a definite period of 15 or 20
years; the outstanding feature is that the
life assured knows just what will be ulti-
mately paid under the policy. Provision
is made for the conversion of income pay-
ments into a capital sum—in many cases
a capital sum is more use to the bene-
ficiary than a monthly payment. For £54
a year a person 50 next birthday can secure
for. his dependants a monthly income at
the rate of £l2O p.a. for 15 years commenc-
ing on the death of the life assured; for
£69 2s. p.a. he can get the same benefits
plus an immediate payment at death of
£400; for £62 12s. he can secure a monthly
income of £6O p.a. for 15 years, plus £2OO
and bonuses at death, and a further £BOO
at the end of the 15 years. The bonuses
in the last case will be the same as are
allotted to whole-life policies of £lOOO.
The Australian Provincial is also issuing
a Family Income policy; but it is adding
surgical and nursing fee benefits, with a
waiver of premiums in certain events. If
death occurs within 20 years from the com-
mencement of risk the beneficiary gets 12
p.c. p.a. of the sum assured in equal
monthly instalments during the unexpired
part of the 20-year period, plus a share in
the society’s interest earnings in excess of
3--t p.c.; vested bonuses are also paid on
proof of death, and the sum assured is paid
at the end of the 20-year period. If death
occurs after the expiry of the 20-year period
the sum assured with bonuses will be paid
on proof of death. Surgical and nursing
fees are covered under this policy. Also
if the policy-holder brings proof that he
has been wholly disabled by bodily injuries
or disease before his 60th year, and will be
permanently and wholly prevented from
pursuing a gainful occupation, the pay-
ment of premiums will be waived, “and the
values of this contract shall increase in
the same manner as if the premiums were
being paid by the assured.”
For a premium of 10s. a year the A.P.A.
will (subject to a satisfactory medical
report) include a special medical service
benefit in any of its policies. This means
payment of surgeons’ fees up to £25 in
any year,
The T. and G. has found endowment assur-
ance the most popular form of policy, and it
has been developing the attractiveness of
these contracts to meet the demand. It
has been found that endowment assurance
is particularly suited to the increasing
number of women who are taking up com-
mercial pursuits. These contracts can be
made to provide that in the event of death
from accident double the sum assured will
be payable. The T. and G. further provides
free periodic medical examinations for the
holders of its larger policies.
The Prudential, the great British office,
came to Australia during the year, with its
backing of 240 millions of assets, composed
of first-class investments spread through-
out the world. An important benefit is
given to holders of whole-life and endow-
ment policies assuring £lOOO or more. This
consists of immediate payment of such por-
tion of the sum assured as may be required
to pay medical and nursing fees occa-
sioned by any operation. The office is
also bringing under notice a “Heritage”
policy—a plan for providing at the lowest
possible cost the maximum benefit for de-
pendants in the case of early death.
Most of the offices are putting Income
policies in their front windows at present.
The National Mutual is also stressing its
permanent total disability benefits. To a man
30 nearest birthday for £27 Os. lid. a year
it will pay £2OOO in the event of death by
accident or £lOOO in the event of death from
any other cause, and if the man becomes
totally and permanently disabled before age
60 it will also pay £l2O p.a. By monthly
instalments and waive further premiums,
though the policy will still participate in
bonuses.
The Provident Life Co., the only life
assurance co. that has originated? in Maori-
land, has a special farmers’ accident and
disease policy; this policy covers death or
disablement from accident or 50 specified
diseases. By doubling the premiums sick-
ness or death from any disease is covered.
This policy, though having no surrender
or accumulating value as with a life con-
tract, has compensating advantages; bene-
fits are payable in the case of sickness and
temporary or total disablement.
MILLIONAIRE INVESTORS.
The old advice was not to put all your
eggs in one basket. Some clever modern
person thought to improve on that by
advising you to put all your eggs in one
basket—and watch it. But not all the
watching in the world may be able to save
it. Success or failure nowadays may be
decided by something that is happening in
a far-away country. In our own land
drought has brought many families to desti-
tution in spite of careful management,
expert knowledge and hard work. Hun-
dreds of men who were rich three years
ago are poor to-day, not through any fault
of their own, but because of the crash of
world prices. Thousands of women whose
husbands had left them a few thousands
which they had lent out on mortgage are
to-day getting no interest, and much of
their capital is in great danger.
To distribute the risk of loss on invest-
ments, investment trusts have become very
popular during the last few years. Men
buy shares in these trusts, which spread
the money over a wide range of securities;
and if they make a loss on two or three—
why, then, nobody is at all seriously
affected. The insurance offices are easily
the greatest investment trusts in the world.
It is a very striking thing, when you come
to think of it, that the investment of your
few pounds of life premiums is command-,
ing the attention of men whom you would
not dream of approaching in your private
capacity. No doubt even they make mis-
takes at times. But whereas, if you handled
your own investments, a mistake might
beggar your widow and children, here the
shock is taken up and absorbed by a thou-
sand, perhaps a hundred thousand, of others
who are interested in the investment with
you, as fellow-members of the same life
society.
And whereas you might have to sacrifice
what you are assured will “come all right,”
a great life office can afford to wait, and
so secure for its poorest policy-holders the
same advantage as a millionaire possesses.
We are. apt to think of a life office as an
institution which smooths out the worst
of the bumps of life by taking from those
who live beyond the average of years to
give to the dependants of those who die
young. But it is far more than that. For
one thing, it puts you in the favored mil-
lionaire class so far as concerns the invest-
ment of the few modest pounds you leave
with the life office every quarter or half-
year.
And, anyway, what could you do with
your few pounds if you had it? At the
best you would probably leave it with the
savings bank, where you might get 2 \ or
3 p.c. for it. The life office has investments
waiting all the time, and the■ very day your
money is paid in it is likely to begin seri-
ous work—it may be as a small part of an
advance on mortgage, it may be to help
make a loan to some member who has
been driven to hypothecate his policy in
order to raise the capital to save perhaps
his business—perhaps the reputation of a
dear relation or friend who has made a
slip.
Australian Offices Reviewed.
A.M.P.—In the Ordinary Department,
though total income last year was £181,984
less than in 1930, it still was £9.470,449,
which is more than twice as much as it had
been in any year previous to 1917. In 1913,
the year before the war, it was only
£3,990,266. For very mapy years past the
society has been writing its assets down or
providing for depreciation ; but so much more
has had to be provided during the past two
years, and taxation has cost so much more,
that the amount added to funds has fallen
from £3,587.681 in 1928 to £1,877,468. last
year. Surpluses available for Ordinary
bonuses have also shrunk considerably:—
1928.. .. £3,005,538
1929.. .. 2,941,005
1930.. .. 2,849,656
1931.. .. 2,468,817
Nevertheless it was still possible to dis-
tribute 45.8 p.c. of the premiums paid on
participating Ordinary policies. The Indus-
trial policies benefited by £233,998 of
bonuses —the total income in that depart-
ment was £2,140,548. The £86,605,767 which
the society controlled was cut up this way:
Public securities, 52.9 p.c.; mortgages, 24.1
p.c.; loans on policies, 17.4 p.c.; premises,
1.6 p.c.; other assets, 4 p.c. Taxation is
taking large lumps out of the income; net
(Life Insurance confirmed on page 25.)


The NEW
Tabulator Stops
The tabulator stops are newly designed for
positive action and quick, convenient adjustment.
A spring on each stop not only serves as a handy
grip in removing and resetting the stop, but holds
it in place securely and permanently.
The NEW
Star Wheel Shaft
Improved design of the star wheel shaft assures
permanently better horizontal alignment. After
years of hard use the New Underwood will turn out
work as precisely neat as its first letter. The
Underwood escapement is now better than ever.
The NEW
Line Space Lever
The line space lever located on the left side
of the carriage is longer than heretofore and an
eighth of an inch higher. This new line space lever
insures easier and more precise spacing than
formerly.
The NEW
Marginal Stops
The design of the right marginal stop prevents
imperfect “carriage banking.” The front section of
the right and left marginal stops is entirely new,
adding much to the attractiveness of the New
Underwood.
The NEW
Rubber Feet
The rubber feet are widened at the bottom
for greater cushioning. A cup washer on each foot
adds to the appearance and at the same time permits
the use of softer rubber, reducing vibration of the
machine, even when it is operated at high speed.
The NEW
Back Space Key Lever
Operation of the back spacer is easier than
ever. Its mechanism has been re-designed and the
back space key lever has been raised, giving more
clearance. . ... .
The NEW
Main Frame
An entirely new main frame gives the Under-
wood Standard an appearance in keeping with
tastefully appointed offices and with its own
mechanical perfection. Its wider members and
curved lines harmonize with the spirit of modern
design.
The NEW
Key Levers
Longer key levers and new spring tension
mechanism give the New Underwood a superlatively
light and responsive touch that spells the end of
typewriter fatigue. This “feather-light” action is
matched by that of the shift key levers, which are
also longer and lighter in action than ever.
WORLD
I
■ 6M3
bo
&
: :
m
i
m
\
*
i.
■
■
■
The New Underwood Sh
From the C
More than Half the Typewriters
in Use are Underwood
Since its inception, thirty-six years ago, when the first model was placed on the market,
Underwood has been the standard of the business world. Entering a field of machines that included
“blind writers,” double keyboards and others that achieved their purpose with varying degrees
of success, the Underwood immediately established its leadership.
The ascendency of Underwood was natural. Superior mechanically, it pioneered with features
that resulted in higher production of work and increased speed and ease of operation.
Underwood has held its position at the top. Constant improvements and refinements have main-
tained its popularity alike with the typewriter buyer and the typewriter user.
And so . . . TO-DAY ... setting standards of performance in keeping with new methods of
business . . . Underwood presents this NEW Underwood Standard! Keyed to the tempo of
1932 ... and the future . . . that’s the UNDERWOOD STANDARD MODEL No. 6!
Please send further information regarding the new model
Underwood British Typewriter.
NAME . . .
ADDRESS
STOTT & UN
70 Pitt Street, and 9-


UPREMACY
ffl
<?
o
trV 5
%
Sc
<6
•A
Q
>5
rv*
l
The NEW
Carriage Frame
Four-point suspension and newly designed
carriage mechanism reduce carriage vibration to a
minimum, insure better alignment than ever and
remove all lost motion in any direction. This
means not only a more easily operated typewriter,
but a quieter one.
The NEW
Right Cylinder Knob
The right cylinder knob has been moved about
§ inch farther out, to avoid the danger of accident-
ally depressing the feed roll release when paper is
being inserted. The new lateral paper guide affords
greater ease in accurate marginal alignment.
The NEW
Ribbon Movement
Free up-and-down movement at the printing
point is assured by the wider spacing of the ribbon
spools. They are almost an inch farther apart. The
ribbon spool guards are deeper than heretofore,
adding greatly to appearance.
The NEW
Key Lever Lock Release
The key lever lock release is in the form of a
key added to the regular keyboard. The key lock
can now be released without removing the hands
from the keyboard. Another of the many new
features contributing to speed and ease of operation.
The NEW
Decimal Tabulator
The five-point decimal tabulator greatly in-
creases the speed of exacting work, such as ledger
writing, billing and statistical work where amounts
must be written in columns. The five keys are just
above the numeral keys, where they are easiest and
quickest to reach. Carriage speed in tabulating is
governed by an automatic brake.
The NEW
Key Papers
The papers on the auxiliary keys, such as the
shift keys, back spacer, tabular keys, etc., are black
with white lettering. These keys stand out in sharp
contrast with the white-papered alphabet keys,
adding not only to appearance, but to convenience.
The NEW
Space Bar
The space bar is controlled by studs that arrest
its movement immediately after the escapement
has been actuated. No movement is wasted. The
space bar is made quieter by thick rubber cushions
that deaden the noise found in ordinary machines.
lard Typewriter Model No. 6.
ladian Factory.
Winner of Every International
Speed Contest
A more BEAUTIFUL typewriter with its gracefully curved main frame and lowered, front plate
for still better visibility. A more FLEXIBLE typewriter with its in built, five-point decimal
tabulator. A more EFFICIENT typewriter with its new four-point carriage suspension, s s
improved ribbon movement, its new line space lever, its new lock release lever and its many
other typically Underwood improvements.
Underwood takes special pride in offering the world of commerce and industry new typewriter
speed, new typewriter design and new typewriter efficiency ... in the UNDERWOOD STA
DARD, MODEL No. 6.
A comparison of these with the illustration above will give you an idea of some of the improvements
that make this the greatest machine of typewriter history. _
Erwood ltd.,
Street, Sydney.
Please send further information regarding the new model
Underwood British Typewriter.
NAME
ADDRESS


What will sh
■ . ■
&
■
mm
mm
m
m
m
■ |
■
■
: : S
-
■
mm
: m
"
I
: m
H
-
e think of
her
husband
30
years from
now ?
Seven Major Reasons
Why YOU Should Insure
with the T. & G. .
1. Because its funds are invested in the safest
types of securities.
2. Because its investments provide an unusually
high return.
3. Because its reserves are stringent and far in
excess of liabilities.
4. Because its policies are increased every year
by substantial bonuses.
5. Because its service to policy-holders is unex-
celled.
6. Because its high yearly inc0me—£3,908,292
in 1931 —ensures you maximum
benefits.
7. Because its £17,110,589 worth of assets
spells Security.
•
J. T. THOMPSON, Managing Director.
H. M. JACKSON, F.1.A., Actuary.
SHE LL never give up. She’s not that kind.
Even if she has to go out and earn her own
living.... and yours, too.
But why take chances. . . .why not be sure, whatever happens to you,
that she 11 be all right. That she 11 be able to complete the kiddies’ educa-
tion. That adversity can never defeat her.
You can positively guarantee her future happiness and well-being. . . .and
your own, too, through the unique Retirement Assurance plan offered by
the T. & G. Mutual Life Society.
As a responsible citizen you will readily appreciate that your dependants
have the right to expect adequate security and protection against all of
life s eventualities. And not forgetting yourself.... surely you’ll be inter-
ested in the promise of a steady and comfortable income, free from the
usual business worries of earning it—and yours before you’re too old to
enjoy it!
For your own sake for her sake. . . .for the sake of your children,
you cannot afford to disregard this plan which assures a happy, contented
life of retirement in years to come. No other form of insurance so
adequately guarantees your future, her future and their future, as that
offered by the T. & G. Mutual Life Society in their Retirement Assurance
plan.
Find out all about it by cutting and mailing the coupon below.
THE
AUSTRALASIAN
Temperance & General
MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: Corner Collins and Russell Streets, Melbourne.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
Cnr. Park and Elizabeth Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Cnr. King William and Grenfell
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Cnr. Queen and Albert Streets.
PERTH:
St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART:
103-107 Collins Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.:
Cnr. Lambton Quay and Grey
Streets.
The T. & G. MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
(Address to Local Branch Office).
Please supply me with jull particulars of
your Retirement Assurance plan.
NAME AGE
ADDRESS


Take /, Yourself ,/ Out of the Picture
HOW MUCH INCOME WILL
YOUR FAMILY HAVE?
£26 A MONTH FOR 20 YEARS?
£2OOO safely invested at 5 % will onl,y return an
income of about 5/6 per day, or less than £2 per week—
not enough to buy even the bare necessities of life.
The Family Income scheme of insurance is designed
especially for the married man, and enables everyone to
provide a suitable income for his family.
It ensures the payment of an income to your wife and
family of £26 a month for a maximum period of twenty
years.
If you died within a month of effecting the Policy
your wife would receive £26 a month for the remainder
of the twenty years, that is, a total payment, over a period
of 19 years and 11 months, of £6214, and then at the end
of the twenty years when your youngest children were
grown up and able to fend for themselves, your wife would
receive a further £2OOO in cash for herself in her old age.
Further, if you have to go to hospital, you receive
Hospital Benefits of £2/2/- per week in cash, and the
amounts so paid are not deducted from the Policy.
The annual payment is remarkably low. For instance,
at age 34 the annual payment is only £4B/11 /8. For an
income of £l3 per month and £lOOO cash, the annual
payment is half of that amount, viz., £24/5/10.
The Policy can be extended so as to provide for the
payment to you of the £2OOO in cash should you survive
until age 65. Under this scheme the full amount paid in
over the period by way of premiums is refunded at age 65,
and the insurance cover received during the period—
amounting to a maximum of £8214 (viz., maximum income
benefit, £6214, and lump sum payment of £2000) has cost
you nothing.
All Classes of Insurance Transacted
The Equitable Life Assurance Company
of Australasia Limited
Board of Directors:
FREDK. LEVY (Chairman), W. H. GREEN, J. F. BRETT, R. G. GILLIES, L. L. POWELL
and DR. E. CULPIN.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Office: Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Office: Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. D. SMOUT, F.F.1.A., F.A.1.5., FREDK. LEVY,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
A Cash Income for My Family
Equitable Life Assurance Co. of A’sia, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Sydney or Melbourne.
Please furnish further details ot the Family Policy.
My age. next birthday will he years.
Date of birth
Name in full
Address
Business Address
interest earnings (that is earnings less
taxes) were about 4.7 p.c. as against 5.2 p.c.
in the previous year. The society lias issued
no less than 1,972,824 policies, assuring
£403,678,988; and the total assurances exist-
ing on Dec. 31 were £214,340,676.
National Mutual. —This old society
(born 1569) makes formally a triennial
valuation, though actually there is an annual
overhaul, with annual bonuses. The bonuses
declared for the past four three-yearly
periods have been as follow:
1922.. .. £1,455,499
1925.. .. 2,118,974
1928.. .. 3,013,1t18
1931.. .. 8,577,833
This co. had been laying its foundations
very carefully over many years, and policy-
holders are now getting the benefit of past
conservative policy. Thus the society has
built up a very handy investment fluctua-
tion reserve of’ £600,000. Elsewhere it is
shown how bonuses come from three main
sources. (1) Though earnings had shrunk
they were £4 18s. Id. p.c. last year, and it
was assumed that only 3 p.c. would be
earned. (2) Expenses were 13 p.c. of net
premiums against 15.2 p.c. assumed. (3)
The - mortality experience for the three
years was only 55 p.c. of the expectation.
Taxation is mainly responsible for smaller
earnings last year. This co. has gone outside
Australia a good deal; nearly half its annual
income comes from Maoriland, S’Africa, Gt.
Britain, Ireland, India and the Straits
Settlements. The total assurances in force
on Sept. 30, 1931, were £83,911,232. Its
funds were £34,728,982, of which 40.4 p.c.
ivas in public securities, 26.5 p.c. in mort-
gages, 16.3 p.c. loans on policies, 4.5 p.c.
freeholds. £1 doesn’t run an Industrial
Department.
M.L.C. —This is the Citizens, on which
the old M.L.A. and Widows’ Fund were
grafted. It is a co-operative' office; its
£200,000 of capital guarantees its policies
and a limited expense rate. The manage-
ment is appointed by shareholders; and,
since its business is to make profits for
them (which it cannot do without making
more than four times as much for the Ordi-
nary policy-holders), it does not go after
big figures with the same enthusiasm as
some offices; in 1916 tlie Ordinary Depart-
ment income was £1,219,490, and last year it
was £2,022,483. In 3930 it' was £2,1.09,372.
which, in spite of bad conditions, was easily
a. record. The co. lias made large provi-
sion for contingencies (including deprecia-
tion of securities), and its valuations are
on a very low basis. - Everything that a co.
can do to maintain good bonuses (which
means also good profits for shareholders)
has been done. It has sought safety also, in
public securities: no less than 83.2 p.c. of
its funds were in them. Of the balance
8.9 p.c. was lent on policies and 4 p.c. on
mortgages. Only one-half of 1 p.c. was in
premises. The co. has an energetic Industrial
Department, with an income last year of
£761,017. Total assurances (both depart-
ments), £56,072,760 ; total funds, £18,484,153.
T. and G. —This is another of the offices
which have made great progress the last few
years. Twenty years ago its total income
in the Ordinary Department was £339,794;
last year it was £1,701,929. Its Industrial
Department has also piled up figures. Only
10 years ago its income was £865,852 ; last
year, £2,188,137. The Industrial funds have
now just passed those of the Ordinary-
Ordinary, £8.133,911; Industrial, £8,355,748.
It had the rare experience of writing more
business last year in the Ordinary Depart-
ment than it had ever done in a year before;
it is an astonishing thing that the income
was more than double than of even so recent
a year as 1924—remarkable evidence of the
society’s energy. And the business is not
so very expensive, either; excluding taxation,
exes, were 17.1 p.c. of net premiums, as
against 18.8 p.c. in the previous year. But
in comparing expense rates it is always
necessary to take the proportion of new
business done into account. On that basis
—assuming new business costs 10 times
more than old—the first premiums cost 70.6
p.c.. a distinctly good showing. The T. and
G. has gone in more than any other office
for dominating buildings and it looks as
though they have had a good advertising
value; 10i p.c. of the funds are in free-
holds, 62.3 p.c. in public securities, 25.1 p.c,
in loans of one kind and another. Yet the
interest earnings were quite good—£s os. 9d.
p.c., though that is doomed to reduction.
Total funds are £16,489,659.
Colonial Mutual. —This society (born
3873) had rather an uphill fight in the first
15 years of the century. Much worse things
were then said about it than it deserved, and
it takes a long while for a life office to
shake itself quite free of that sort of handi-
cap. Even now 7 its surrenders are too heavy.
But it pays-very good bonuses ; last year
in S’Africa (where it has a considerable
business) its bonus additions ran from 465.
p.c. on policies under five years tc £5 p.c.
on those 45 years or more in force. Bonuses
are scaled down according to Government
levies in, the countries where the policies are
held. S’African taxes barely touch mutual
life offices; but taxes elsewhere result in
these cuts, beloyv the S’African rate: Britain.
Is. p.c.; Maoriland, 25.; Australia, 7s. The
net surplus (that is, the amount available
for bonuses) was £393,654 last year in the
Ordinary. £77,873 in the Industrial and
£11,345 in the Accident Department—the
last more important in this office than in
most. Over 52 p.c. of the assets are in
public securities, 20.2 p.c. in mortgages,
11.7 p.c. in freeholds, only 11 p.c. in loans
on policies. The office has thoroughly re-
established itself and put itself in a good
profit-earning position. It has also a board
which commands confidence. Funds; Ordi-
nary, £11,037,209; Industrial, £2,330,096.
City Mutual.— This is generally known
as “George Crowley’s Office,” Mr. Crowley,
chairman and managing director, having
been its picturesque chief for many years.
He is the most unorthodox insurance head
this, country has known. Once he even went
so far as to say: “Bonuses— rubbish! All
we do is to charge you a great deal too
much so that w r e can make a song about
refunding you a lot of money which we tell
you we’ve saved. 1 won’t do it. I will
cut down premiums.” But he found it didn’t
work; evidently the public liked being fooled.
So premiums were raised to the same level
as that of most cos.; and the City Mutual
proceeded to pay big bonuses. _ And it does
pay big bonuses. The society is not so big
that the managing director and his few col-
leagues can’t give personal attention to every
important matter —especially relating to in-
vestments. Of the total funds of £6,341,408
no less than 52.4 p.c. is in mortgages
among them many of what were very sweet
little fish in former days. In these latter
days things are different: last year mean
funds averaged only 34 p.c. interest, as
against 6 p.c. a few years back. However,
there are substantial reserves to cover pos-
sible losses; and the bonuses (52 p.c. of
the net premiums last year) are still very
attractive. Loans on policies, though they
have grown lately, are still only 14.8 p.c.
of the assets.
A.P.A.—This is the largest of the newer
offices, born 1912. Its earlier years illus-
trated the great difficulties in front ’of a
new life office, and it looked at one time as
if it would have to go the way of many*
more and be absorbed by something older
and larger. But the shareholders included
some very energetic and able business men;
one of these, Edmund S. Paul, became chair-
man and the co. was handled; so well that;
in the three years to 1930 policy-holders got
£185,602 in bonuses. £255,942 was used to
wipe out old establishment charges and
shareholders got £34,478 in divs. Exes, are
still not as low as it is hoped to get them;
but the management has them w r ell in hand.
One result is that net tangible assets in
excess of liabilities under policies, plus
reserves for unexpired accident risks are
£297,338 better than they were in 1926.
Mention was made of divs. just now. The
co. lias £357,028 of capital; and this is a
further backing for policies.
Metropolitan. —This is one of those
little cos. (formed in Queensland, 389«:>)
which believes that if three men go out in a
boat, fishing on the mutual principle, they
are likely to do just as well individually as
if 20 went out in a much bigger boat —
perhaps better. All that has to be watched
is overhead ; and this co. can do that. The
result is that, though after 35 years its
Ordinary income is only £103,705 and its
Industrial £160,648, its shareholders: have
received £38,958 in divs. in the last three
years, an average of nearly 26 p.c., of
which 15 p.c. came from the Industrial and
11 p.c. from Ordinary business; and Ordi-
nary policy-holders get £4 for each £1 that
goes to shareholders. The paid capital is
£50,000; the funds: Ordinary, £595,371:
Industrial, £525,769. It has 39.5 p.c. of
this in public securities, 29 p.c. in mort-.
gages and 17.9 p.c. in freeholds.
Assurance and Thrift. —“D ov e y’s
Office,this one; its managing director is
W. It. Dovey, one of the oldest actuaries in
Sydney. Established 1910, it looks at,every-
thing three times, including proposals ; yet
it has made money out of property deals
which most other offices would not touch. In
the last seven years the co. has made profits
of £11,865 on the sale of properties. Hence,
though total revenue last year was only
£32,819 (it was more than that in 1926),
there was probably a surplus. Since^3 921
(nine years) shareholders have had £5237,
and £47,151 lias been available for _ policy-
holders. Of total funds, 74 p.c. is in free-
holds and mortgages, 10 p.c. in loans on
policies and 9 p.c. in public securities.
Australasian Catholic.-— Formed in
1921, this co. had a paid capital of £14,610
as at June 30, 1931. Funds, apart from
share capital, were £307,565. Mortgages
were 71.4 p.c. of the total; public securities
27.4 p.c. Interest earnings were £6 16s.
p.c. on average funds—a remarkable result,
though not likely to be maintained. Exes
are still high—4s.l p.c. of the year's pre-
miums. Income was £152,956; in 1926 it
was only £50,253. For five years (to June,
1930) tiiere was a surplus of £23,474; and
bonuses up to 30s. p.c. p.a. were paid—a great
achievement for a little 11-year-old. A div.
was paid; and all establishment charges
have been written off.
Queensland Probate. —This little co.,
with a paid capital of £152,999, set out to
specialise in probate policies; but excessive
competition has made business-getting ex-
pensive. At tlie last balance total intan-
gibles, including Accident department deficit,
were £118,017. The co.’s future is uncer-
tain; but it has this in its favor—under
the present law no new life offices may
register in Queensland.
Producers and Citizens.— Paid capital
is £108,475; and, though business was only
started in 1920, already funds apart from
share capital are £427,181. The office had
the backing of various farmers’ organisa-
tions. According to the actuary’s report as
at August 31, 1930, there was then a sur-
plus of £1206 in the Ordinary department
and a deficiency of £30,056 in the Industrial.
But the recent years had been much more
favorable than the earlier ones in the Indus-
trial department; 1930 alone was just on
the verge of profit-making. Still, there is
a good way to go yet and much hard work
to be done, because a rather high rate of
interest earning was assumed. Prospects,
however, are fair; policies are well covered.
This is distinctly not a case where policies
should be allowed to lapse.
Equitable Life of Australasia. —Like
many other young offices, this one has found
the hunt for new business expensive, but
most of the policies written have stuck;
thus lapses, usually a dead loss to' an office,
have never amounted to much more than
20 p.c.—a Very satisfactory experience. At
last balance net tangible assets exceeded the
life fund by nearly £36.000. and there was
another £65 000 of uncalled capital for the
protection of policy-holders. If exes, can be
worked down this co. has better opportunities
than most youngsters.
Southern Cross. —This co., formed in
Melbourne in 1921, has since bought the New
Era and Australian Group businesses. The
going has been hard; exes, are still far too
heavy—s 6.3 p.c. of net premiums. Still, 18
months ago the actuary reported that policy-
holders were adequately- protected. And
there is a paid share capital of £300,000.
Bonuses are not yet in sight; the heavy
lapses, are a great handicap.


AUSTRALASIAN
CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
Formed in 1921.
The Most Solidly Progressive
of the Younger Life Offices.
The actuary’s last valuation disclosed that policyholders were fully
and amply protected, and recommended bonuses to be paid out of
profits in both the Ordinary and Industrial branches. Read what
the “Wild Cat” says:—
“This little Sydney co. has put up a splendid performance.
Formed 1 1 years ago by E. J. Mooney with a paid capital of
£14,610, its second overhaul by the actuary shows a divisible
surplus of £23,474 for the five years to June 30 last. That was
after setting aside £289,473 to meet liabilities under policies. . . .
In the Ordinary dept, reversionary bonuses are recommended at
the rate of 30s. p.c. p.a. for whole-of-life and 20s. p.c. p.a. for
endowment assurances. In the Industrial branch, which represents
about three-quarters of the co.’s total business, reversionary bonuses
on policies five years or more in force are at the rate of 2 Is. p.c. p.a.
for whole-of-life and 14s. p.c. p.a. for endowment assurances. All
this still leaves a surplus of £9158 to be carried to bonus reserve.”
—“The Bulletin,” 30/3/’32.
Life and Endowment Assurance of all classes effected; Special
Endowment Assurance for children; Fire Insurance specially catered
for at lowest rates; Personal Accident and Sickness, Plate Glass, etc.
E. J. MOONEY,
Managing Director.
HEAD OFFICE:
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Res. Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
The Queensland National Bank
Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE, 1 2th July,
1932.
To the Shareholders of
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One hundred and seventh Report, with
the Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last, after allowing for
Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and Inter-
minable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of Income,
Land and other Taxes payable during that period, amounting to
£72,383, reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts
£2500, making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts and *all
known Contingencies and including Recoveries, amounts to . . £71,587 16 8
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
30th June, 1931
Making a total of
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4 % per
annum for the Half-year ended 31st December, 1931, amount-
ing to
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 4 % per annum for the Half-year ended
30th June, 1932 . ,
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and without deduction
in respect of Federal Income Tax payable by the Bank)
Balance to be Carried Forward
£17,056
£88,644
19
15
£35,000 0 0
£53,644 15 8
£35,000 0 0
£18,644 15 8
£53,644 15 8
Owing to the reconciliation of the drop of 1 % in Fixed Deposits and Overdraft
rates, and the reduction in interest on Commonwealth Loans and Treasury Bills, to
assist, along with other Banks, the Premiers’ Plan for the rehabilitation of the
Commonwealth, our profits have been adversely affected to the extent of approxi-
mately £60,000. This amount, in comparison with our usual profits, constitutes a
very large proportion to be handled in any one year. The financial period under
review has been one of exceptional difficulty, not only owing to the reconciliation
of the interest rates referred to above, but also so far as profitable employment of
our funds generally is concerned, notwithstanding our policy has been to decline large
fixed deposits carrying no collateral advantages. have not been drawn
upon during the current year. Sums ranging from £lO,OOO to £12,500 per annum
have been written off the book values of the Bank Premises and Furniture for many
years but, this being a lean year, £2500 is recommended. Reference to the Balance
Sheet will show the extra details required by the provisions of the Queensland
Companies Act of 1931.
Since last Balance date the Branch at Sussex Street, Sydney (N. S. Wales), has
been closed.
By Order of the Board,
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
*The additional information starred is published in accordance with the provisions
of the Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
The Queensland National Bank, Limited.
BALANCE SHEET, as at June 30, 1932.
£5,755,314 0
292,529 5
8,135,284 15
Advances to Customers, Bills Discounted and all other Accounts * (exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful Debts)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Stationery *(at cost less amounts written off) ..
(Of the Bank Premises figures £170,000 is revenue producing.)
£14,183,128 1 1
£4,987,248 7 2
8,644,508
551,371
9 11
4 0
£14,183,128 1 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
For Year Ended June 30, 1932.
To Interim Dividend paid February 18, 1932
~ Balance at June 30, 1932
By Balance from June 30, 1931
~ Net Profit for Year ended .Tune 30, 1932
. . £35,000 0 0
.. 53,644 15 8
£88,644 15 8
..£17,056 19 0
.. 71,587 16 8
£88,644 15 8
RESERVE FUND.
DR.
To Balance
OR.
By Balance
..£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
. . £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
“The total-amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and Sydney, as remuneration
for their services during the year ended June 30, 1932, was £2700.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
*We certify that in our opinion, the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information and explanations given to
us, and as shown by the Books on June 30, 1932. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required.
R. H. GUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A. f
LANCE A JONES, F.F.I.A. j Auditors.
July 12, 1932.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held
at the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 18th
August, 1932, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the Year ended 30th
June, 1932. To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
WHAT POLICY OWNERS OWN.
It is noij possible to make a statement of
the Australian assets of life-assurance
offices as at a later date than 1930. The
growth of the Australian assets during the
previous five years was as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial.
1925.. ..£94,960,528 £5,621,805
1926. . . . 103,610,687 5,414,661
1927.. .. 111,857,962 6,416,085
1928.. .. 121,502,395 5,541,592
1929.. .. 129,029,217 5,569,761
1930.. .. 138,266,599 5,689,169
This shows the total growth:—
1925.. ..£100,582,333
1930.. .. 143,955,768
Increase . . £43,373,435
The nature of the assets at the end of
1930 was as follows:
Public securities . . .. £72,777,464
Mortgages 37,852,782
Loans on policies . . .. 16,795,179
Debentures . . . . .. 85,470
Real property . . . . 5,691,395
Life interests, etc. . . 175,093
Other investments. . .. 3,319,250
Outstanding premiums . . 1,170,984
Ditto interest, etc. . . 1,525,703
Cash 2,169,606
Establishment account . . 1,084,240
Other assets . . . . 1,308,602
From this it wall be seen that the Aus-
tralian assets were apportioned as follows:
Government and municipal securities .. 50.6 p.c.
Mortgages . . . . . . . . . . 26.3 ~
Loans on policies . . . . .. . . 11.7 „
House and landed property . . . . 3.9 „
All other .. . . . . 7.5 „
Total .. 100.0 p.c.
There was a remarkable increase of 43.1
p.c. in the assets in these five years. As
might have been expected the greatest pro-
portionate increase among the larger items
was in loans on policies, 71 p.c., and mort-
gages, 68 p.c. There was a 31 p.c. increase
in holdings of public securities and 58 p.c.
in house and landed property. But, as
shown previously, more than half the assets
are still in public securities, while less than
4 p.c. is in house and landed properties,
nearly all, of course, office premises.
For purposes of comparison these bank-
ing figures are added: —For the quarter
ended June 30, 1931, the average assets of
the Commonwealth Bank were £58,614,774;
of other cheque-paying banks, £354,258,319;
combined, £412,873,093. Deposits in all
savings banks, June 30, 1931, £193,375,397 —
as against assets valued at £143,955,768 in
the life offices in Australia.
PAID-UP POLICIES.
In these depressing times many people
already insured (particularly under Indus-
trial policies) find great difficulty in keep-
ing up their premium payments, and are
afraid of losing all they have paid into the
office. If they have been insured with a
reputable concern for a period of three to
five years (varying with the different
offices and kinds of policies) they are
usually entitled to a fully-paid-up policy
of a reduced amount, payable under the
same terms and conditions, as the original.
Some offices will only issue such a policy
where the paid-up value amounts to at least
£5O; but the value in a soundly-established
concern is usually more than the premiums
that have been paid in. Application should
be made for such a policy immediately it
has been found impossible to keep on
paying premiums, because, until the office
becomes aware of the assured’s intentions
in the matter, it automatically lends the
surrender value in order to keep the policy
gomg; thus the paid-up value is gradually
exhausted.
ram-up values are calculated on a pro-
portional basis. With an industrial policy
the cover granted is generally a proportion
of the original sum assured equal to the
ratio which the premiums paid in bear to
the total premiums payable.
AND NOW A LITTLE ADVICE.
A whole-life policy buys more cover per
£1 paid in than an endowment; but a short-
term endowment has a greater surrender
value. You gain nothing by taking out a
whole-life policy and surrendering it at a
given age in preference to taking out an
endowment maturing at that age.
The value of partnership assurance is
not so well understood as it might be. A
parnership deed generally provides for
certain payments to a partner on his with-
drawing from the partnership, or to his
representatives in the event of his death
during the partnership. These payments
may prove to be a drag on the business for
years. A sound plan is for each partner
to take out a policy on the life of the
other, for a sum sufficient to cover the
payments. Thus, in the event of the death
of one partner, the survivor is relieved of
the burden of having to provide such pay-
ments out of the business, or his own funds.
In the event of a dissolution the partners
may exchange policies, so that each would
be free to continue the policy on his own
life. Moreover, if the policy is surren-
dered, the loss would be less than if a
joint-life policy had been affected.
The best policy of the lot is the one
which offers complete stability and the
lowest net insurance cost. “Net cost” of in-
surance, as explained elsewhere, is the annual
premiums less the cash value of the bonuses.
* If in doubt about an office, the advice
of The Bulletin’s Service Department is
always at your disposal.
Some offices will write a policy in their
Ordinary Department for amounts as low
as £5O. Insurance in the O.D. is cheaper
than in the Industrial, because the pre-
miums don’t cost so much to collect.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Bitter Sweet”
Criterion “Happy and Glorious”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King’s “Macbeth”
State Movies and Talkies
The Sad Story of Rig.
Once
Upon a time there was a
Celebrated«red-nosed low
Comedian named Rig
With a bitter tongue,
Employed at the Bourke-.street All-Star
Vaudeville Theatre,
Who had an only daughter named Gilda,
A very low
comedian.
Whom he kept,
To preserve her from
the corrupting in-
fluence of the stage,
Closely immured
In an out-of-the-way
part of the city,
To wit, a boarding-
' house in St. Kilda-
road.
Beautiful she was, as
are the stars:
Her nose a poem;
Her eyes sparkling
with vivacity;
Her figure
Replete with every
modern convenience,
including high-
lieeled shoes,
Corsets, preservers and
a realistic perma-
nent wave.
He loved her with a
pure paternal love.
But his boss,
Named Isaacstein,
A Jew from Aberdeen,
Discovered her retreat and won her heart,
Disguised as a student from the University.
The company, too,
Found out that Rig was in the habit of visit-
ing a lady
And placed, as is the wont of actors,
The worst construction on the affair,
Ah, that human minds should be so
Base!
To be revenged upon Rig for his bitter
tongue,
They carried her off by night* despite her
screams—
Sufficient to stir com-
passion in the heart
Of a mortgagor, but
not loud enough to
wake a Melbourne
policeman
On his beat—
To the All-Star Vaude-
ville Theatre.
There she was found
by her astonished
father, and, to his
pain and horror,
confessed that she
loved Isaacstein
With a pure
And elemental love.
Enraged,
Rig hired a celebrated
murderer,
Of Footscray,
Named Two - Gun
Mike.
A financial member of
the Assassins’
Union.
A Jew from
Aberdeen.
And a stalwart sup-
porter of the Ned Kelly Plan,
His slogan, oft repeated, “Kelly’s Right.”
Comrade Mike beguiled Rig’s boss,
The amorous Isaacstein,
To a secluded pub, the Bull and Blister,
Hard by the River Yarra, a stream
Perfumed and also very convenient,
Using, by way of decoy-duck, his sister
Madeleine, and promising.
According to contract, sealed and delivered,
To hand over the body of Isaacstein
To Rig in a bag at midnight, dead
As a doornail, or deader if possible.
More or less accord-
ing to the contract.
The Government
Mete orologist
having predicted
fine weather.
The light n i n g
flashed, th,e thun-
der growled, the
ra in rai n e d
and the wind
howled—•
The scene was set.
Madeleine pleaded
tearfully for the
life of her hand-
some
If over-fat Isaac-
stein, but Mike
would not break
his contract
With Rig. •
A body Rig should
have. He had
paid for it, and
lie should have
it, if it were
only the body
Of a dead dog or even of a cat;
Or, perchance, a stranger might arrive!
But Gilda —
You have forgotten Gilda.
She was the daughter of Rig, the very low
■ comedian,
Beautiful she was, as are the stars.
Her nose a poem;
Her eyes sparkling with vivacity.
She came
To the outer wall of the Bull and Blister
and overheard
The plot.
Her mind—she had a mind,
Though carefully concealed—
Was made up in a moment.
The brave girl would sacrifice herself for
her lover.
The faithless Isaacstein.
She knocked, she entered, and was dulv
done to death
By Comrade Mike, according to the contract
Her body, still warm.
And replete' with every modern convenience
Mike placed in a bag and handed at the
appointed hour to Rig.
The lightning flashed and the thunder
growled:
A dirty ’ night, though spelling a bumper
crop to farmers
In the Mallee, who needed rain or a higher
exchange or
Both, but let
that pass.
Rig,
The low.
Incredibly low.
Comedian at
the All-Star
V a u deville
Theatre
In Bourke-
street,
Gave honest
Mike a re-
ceipt, and in
triumph was
about
To hurl the
body in the
bag into the
river,
None honester than Mike.
Contrary to
the Water Board regulations, when he
heard,
Alas!
A voice
Singing in a rich tenor, the voice
Of the faithless
Isaacstein.
Overcome by a horrible
Suspicion, Rig
Opened the bag.
Within it was the body, not of his enemy,
but of his beloved daughter—
Of Gilda,
Beautiful as the stars; her nose
A poem ;
Her eyes, now, alas!
Glazed in approaching death; her voice,
however,
Still capable of reaching a roof-rending top
note.
Rig’s heart, but not his voice, broke with
a loud
Crack.
This story is true.
If you don’t believe it read the Rain Re-
cords column in the “Argus.”
Three inches fell that night
Over the whole State.
When Benno Moiseiwitsch was a new-
fledged virtuoso he played like an unsophis-
ticated angel, taking everything at its face
value with innocent confidence and getting a
dickens of a lot of enjoyment out of it.
Digital intricacies didn’t worry him then any
more than they do to-day, and he let the
music sing its own meaning—if it had any.
Since those far-off days he has become
acquainted with the more sinister aspects of
life, such as golf, which he plays left-handed;
has thought a lot about the mathematical
subtleties of Bach and the inner mysteries of
Beethoven; has painstakingly explored the
modern composers, and discovered, among
other things, that there are nine and forty
ways of playing Chopin’s lays. Since his
first readings of the classics came to him
spontaneously, and were perceived by him
then to be obvious, ho has reached
the conclusion that they must have been
Vrong, and that Beethoven, Chopin and
co. are a lot more subtle than he
gave them credit for. Quite probably he
will travel round the spiral of experience
and get back to his starting point on a
higher plane, when he will play like an
archangel. At Sydney Town Hall on his
opening night he seemed to be playing more
with deliberation and determination than
wfith enthusiasm. He gave a performance
of Busoni’s transcription of Bach’s D major
Prelude and Fugue which Tausig could hardly
have improved upon for neatness, and b.v
some magic, doubtless painfully acquired,
managed to attain such an organ-like quality
of tone that at times the listener could have
sworn that; the pipes in the background
were speaking and not the wires of the
Town Hall’s rather passe grand. But it was
cold grandeur. Then came the “Appas-
sionato,” a tone-cathedral which the player
built up on some plan more his own than
the original architect’s. This wag neither a
storm assailing a rock-bound coast nor the
outpouring of a soul surcharged with pas-
sionate desire, but an eloquent and decisive
statement, couched for the most part in
politely restrained terms, which proved very
conclusively some point that was totally
obscure. Followed a group of Chopin
numbers out of which rhythm had been
rigorously ironed. Someone said the valses
could only be danced by queens and prin-
cesses, but Moiseiwitsch’s version of the one
in A flat couldn’t have been danced by any-
thing less agile than a cross between a
centipede and a flea. The D flat Nocturne
and the B minor and C sharp minor Scherzos
were made to yield new and hitherto un-
suspected outlines, and only the G flat Yalsc
was able to resist an insistent urge to con-
vert its three-four time into seven-nine or
some other queer division. Liszt’s F minor
Etude provided an interesting exhibition of
virtuosity, and popular taste had to be satis-
Won her heart disguised as a University
student.
tied with' the Abbe’s two-hand imitation of a
performance of the “Tannhauscr” overture
by an orchestra of sixty. This was done
magnificently—the three themes are made of
cast-steel and defy modification— and after
this return to the exuberance of his youth
the pianist played some encore trifles, includ-
ing a wonderful left-hand study, in some-
thing very like his original style. It was a
terribly cold night (for Sydney), the
audience wasn’t as large as might have been
expected, and it may well be that for these
and other reasons Moisewitsch’s familiar
spirits weren’t sparking on all six plugs.
* *
The second recital did nothing to remove
the impression given by the first; indeed it
intensified it. Each of Chopin’s 12 studies
was given a new interpretation. The “Revo-
lutionary” was successfully divorced from
anger and love of liberty; the “Butterfly”
was metamorphosed into an electron suffer-
ing from intellectual doubts. Schumann’s
“Etudes Symplioniques” were stripped of
sentiment and Beethoven’s Andante Favori
was clothed in a garb that covered its melody
from neck to wrists and ankles. De Falla’s
essay in the Spanish accent and color. “La
Veda Breve,” was denationalised and de-
natured. Liszt’s most popular “Liebestraum”
was made to deal with something much
more abstruse than love, and the same com-
poser’s sixth Rhapsody became an expression
of discreet approval. All this with fidelity to
the letter of the score and astonishing digital
facility. Moiseiwitsch produces effects that
are unique; he can put a different shade of
emphasis into each of his 10 fingers simul-
taneously. There is every excuse and incen-
tive for one possessing such powers to use
them for experimental purposes, but it’s a
terrible thing to have to listen to the vivisec-
tion of great music.
If Dame Sybil Thorndike has nothing
better in her repertoire of tragic rdles than
the name-part of the “Medea” of Euripides
(born 4SI 8.C.), Melbourne need not com-
plain. Nobody knows who played the role
in the original production or how it was
done, and nobody need care. From the
moment that the maddened wife of Jason
The body of his beloved dauahter.
emerged from the austere portals of her
house in Corinth till a heavenly chariot
removed her to Athens, Greek conventions
of the drama, almost incomprehensible to a
modern audience, were forgotten in the spec-
tacle of a beautiful woman crazed by
jealousy to a point where the emotions
needed something more than mere words for
their expression. In opera this need is more
or less .supplied by music. Dame Sybil sup-
plemented Gilbert Murray’s mellifluous
translation of the text with a kind of pos-
tural music so amazingly lovely and so full
of emotional significance that the eyes of
her audience at the King’s were as awe-
struck as their minds. A story wdiich con-
cerns a grand-daughter of the Sun (Medea),
who, for love of a hero (Jason), murdered
her brother, slew magic serpents with spells,
subsequently assassinated Jason's second
wife, also by magic arts, and finally strangled
her two sons, does not suggest realism as
the term is understood to-day. Nevertheless,
Euripides made it real. (Incidentally, the
Athenians of his day didn’t like true realism
any more than it is liked to-day, and two
rival poets are said to have had him torn
to pieces by dogs.) Of Dame Thorndike’s
Medea it may be said that she was brooding
hate, wild rage and savage grief incarnate in
human form —in fact, a woman with a
vested interest in monogamy fighting a
society of polygamously-minded males for the
security of her brood. A performance only
second in dramatic intensity to the Dame’s
was that of her son Christopher Casson,
who. in moving terms, related the horrible
death of Medea’s rival for her husband’s
bed. The chorus of Corinthian women, who
alternately supported and argued with the
leading character, was intelligently led by
Zillah Carter. A quaint member was M.
Martin-Harvey, disguised as a woman whose
words were not always distinguishable. The
last opportunity for Melbourne theatregoers
to acquire an unforgettable experience
occurs at to-morrow’s matinee.
¥ V V
Lennox Robinson’s “The White Blackbird,”
played by the Sydney Players’ Club at St.
James’s Hall, is a drama of family life,
that of the. Naynoes. Mrs. Naynoe is bitter-
minded ; her second husband is a genial para-
site; Violet, a daughter, is a prig; Tinker,
a son, is a scoundrel. Bella, another daugh-
ter, however, possesses some redeeming quali-
ties. The whole five are up in arms against
William, Mrs. Naynoe’s only child by her
first marriage. William is to get his father's
estate on reaching 25; his mother and half-
relatives are forced either to accept what he
will give them or starve. Considering that
William has always been badly treated, he
behaves magnanimously. A year passes
and Tinker returns with an adventuress. The
siren, at Tinker’s bidding, endeavors to com-
promise William, but is baffled. Mrs. Naynoe
intervenes after her blackguardly son’s depar-
ture, and for her pains learns that William
is aware that she drove his father, to suicide.
The play ends on a cheerless note. Arthur
O’Keefe was effective as William, and as
Bella, Alice Gould, who produced the piece,
helped him considerably. Beatrice Wines
played the unsympathetic and difficult part of
Mrs. Naynoe well.
* # *
The New_ Sydney Rep. Soc.’s performance
of “Something Wrong,” a comedy by Morris
Hay, a local playwright, had an Australian
setting—the verandah of a western N.S.W.
station homestead —which remained un-
changed throughout, and the players spoke
their lines in the free and easy style of the
Outback. A homely story ranged over the
four hets, and there was humor enough to
please the audience. But a lot of the dia-
logue is trivial, the curtains merely cut the
play into sections and the denouement starts
to cast its shadow in Act I. Gwen Grif-
fiths’s acting was the brightest feature.
Thomas Lowe gave an almost flawless pic-
ture of a type which can be met anywhere
west of the Blue Mountains. Scott Alex-
ander produced the play.
* v *
M'elb. Tiv.: No Mo.
* *
A full house surveyed “Madame Butter-
fly” at Melb. Royal last week, Cesarina
Yalobra’s Cho-cho-san being gratefully re-
ceived, especially by those who remem-
bered Hina Spani’s physical over-fulfilment
of the role. The new interpreter was small,
reasonably vivacious and vocally satisfying.
Both as regards chorus and principals the
performance left little to be desired except
in Alfieri’s tenor, which was weak. It is
gratifying, however, to be able to say some-
thing disparaging about Lieut. F. B. Pink-
erton’s voice, since his morals are such as
no right-thinking person can approve.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Broken Wing,” at Sydney Regent,
follows old, very old, stage traditions. None
of the principals uses one gesture where it
is possible to use two or three. There is a
benevolent heavy father, whose grins and
grimaces are exasperating to a degree. Leo
Carrillo is thd'cretinous villain. But instead
of being consistently scoundrelly on glower-
ing lines he alternates crime with comedy.
The tempo is slow while he is courting
Lupe Velez, but- livens up when she falls in
love with Melvyn Douglas, whose ’plane has
crashed near the family hacienda. Leo, who
is a local Mussolini, decides petulantly to
have his rival shot, which inspires Miss
Velez to some rip-roaring acting, expressive
of grief and despair, that would have got her
an engagement in the Vincent Crummies
company on sight. Carrillo is shown riding
off into the great open spaces after the
rescue of Douglas, a toothy, likeable thug
to the last.
“Gentleman for a Day” follows. One of
its weakest features is the misleading title.
Douglas Fairbanks, junior, is a crook, who
by a series of thefts in a railway station
gets hold of a new suit and a violin-case full
of dud notes. He shares the money with a
casual pick-up, Joan Blondell, till they are
arrested. The villain of the piece is the
counterfeiter, Alan Hale. When he shoots
a policeman while trying to get back the
notes Fairbanks catches him, and is thereby
entitled, in accordance with traditional talkie
usage, to a free pardon on tire larceny issue.
This is the kind of genre-picture in which
Hollywood excels. The whole action takes
place within the precincts of the station, yet
it is all movement, life and color ; and the
acting is brilliant. Fairbanks contrives to
look a hard-faced young blackguard at one
stage and a decent lad at another; he
changes the very quality of his smile. Joan
Blondell is precisely the round-eyed, lym-
phatic fathead by whom his kind are
attracted. The rest of the casting is almost
equally good. From Mae Madison, as a
waitress, to Guy Kibbee, as one of those
amiable hobos who are the despair of
Prisoners’ Aid societies, they are all lifted
straight from life. It is melodrama, of
course, but it is also cinema.
* * H-
You never know what Hollywood is going to
do as regards endings. It will allow a guilty
heroine to be yanked from the electric-chair a
second before the current is switched on ; yet
permit a goil who would be an ornament to
society as wife and mother to meet a sad fate.
By all the rules of the game Dorothy
Mackaill should not have passed into the
eternal shadows in “Safe in Hell,” at
Sydney Haymarket. She had only stunned the
gangster, but believing him dead, as they all
do in movies in such circumstances, slv
let herself be smuggled by a sailor-lover to
an island sanctuary for international crim-
inals. A young woman with her sex
appeal could hardly have chosen a more
unsuitable haven. Faced by a dissolute
gaoler with the alternatives of death or dis-
honor she opts for death, and swaggers off
to the scaffold, a proud—one might almost
say conceived —martyr to her principles. So
much for those who talk of the morally
debasing effects of American talkies !
“Symphony of Six Million,” now entic-
ing the multitude to Sydney State, is an
over-boomed bellowdrama with a preten-
tious musical theme. Ricardo Cortez is a
surgeon who performs wonders in his ghetto,
and sets up a brass-plate in a fashionable
quarter. And now he shames his race by
becoming a materialist. Nothing can save
him for idealism but a tragedy in his per-
sonal life, so his father is sacrificed in the
good cause. The old gentleman dies in
the middle of an operation which is being-
carried out unethically by the son, who
thereafter registers remorse by stalking
with haggard mien through streets and
hospital corridors. The love of Irene Dunn,
a cripple, restores him to mental and moral
health. The direction is sound, and* Aniia
Appel (Yiddish Art Theatre) and Gregory
Ratoff (Moscow Art Theatre) are intero.v,-
ing as the hero’s parents.
The three aviators of Sydney Capitol's
“The Lost Squadron” are employed by Eric
von Stroheim, a movie director who wants
perilous stunts carried out in connection
with a war film. Von Stroheim, who is one
of the nastiest pieces of work put before
entertainment-lovers since the Bland Holt
co. was in flower, gets jealous of Richard
Dix and sends him aloft in a defective ’plane.
Richard escapes, but in the course of the
director’s next attempt on his life one of his
colleagues goes west. He was a drunk,
whom none of the ladies loved, so he wasn’t
any real loss. Eventually the survivors
shoot their homicidal employer in self-
defence and Richard Dix —but go and see it.
It is well worth while as a spectacle, though
idiotic as a play.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 25
*Anchises 10,000 ~ Nov. 29
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. V
Gilchrist, Watt § Sanderson, Ltd. I'
Joint
Agents
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
m O
Monobel
amsonite
elatino Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston,
Mr. M. S. Allan,
i National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed'
w
/
THINK OP
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Peter”: Having a life partner who fre-
quently startles the neighbors by standing
at. the back door and vociferously calling me,
I decided to train a magpie to answer on. my
behalf and relieve me of the necessity of
leaving liquid stimulant so much before six
in the evenings. Fortune seemed ,to favor
me.. Last spring a pair nested near by, and
I caught one of the. family. I put it in a
box, nailing, slats across the front, just
close enough together to prevent escape, and
placed a dish outside .the slats for its food.
On the first day it ate heartily, but that
evening I saw its parents consulting with
it. On the following day it ate nothing.
Early on the following morning I peeped
through a chink in the fence,-to 1 , see the old
birds standing in front of the box with their
heads on one side, apparently admiring the
proportions of their offspring. On the next
two days the young bird still declined food.
That evening as I was returning from work
I saw him in the distance, staggering weakly
towards a hole in the paling fence. I dis-
creetly followed, and watched him find a
store of food hidden behind the woodshed, as
a provision against his weakness, by the
cunning parents, who had advised him to
hunger-strike until he was thin enough to
Squeeze between the slats.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Salguod”: The octopodes referred to by
“Larrapinta” and “Wobbe” (B. 22/6/’32)
are not worth talking about. I was in Cape
Town in a 300-ton steamer that was about
to leave for Mossel Bay. The ship was
untied and “slow ahead” was registered on
the bridge telegraph. After one or two
minutes’ wait there was no sign of motion.
The skipper yelled down the speaking tube
to the engine-room, and, apparently satisfied
that the engines were weak, pulled the tele-
graph down to “half-steam ahead.” Still no
movement. Frothing at the mouth, he
jambed the telegraph to “full-steam ahead.”
Result as before. The engines were work-
ing hard, but motion seemed impossible. A
diver went below, and soon discovered the
reason. A friendly octopus had settled just
above the keel forward, and feeling quite
at home yawned and attached a few of his
legs to the wharf piles, to which he clung
with determination. When they got it up
the scales tipped at three and a half tons.
❖ -!' i'fi
“Darlinghearsed”: A Peke has earned the
right to have his name placed on the roll of
hard-fighting canine heroes. Finding a
flat door open a man entered, but was imme-
diately attacked by the Peke, valiantly deter-
mined to defend his mistress’s property.
Kicked away several times, the Peke came
again to the assault, and the man, raising
his foot, overbalanced and crashed, stunning
himself against the edge of a table. When
an agitated mistress dashed down from a
higher-floor flat where she had been gossip-
EFFICIENCY.
REAL-ESTATE AGENT (showing business properties): “Now this building, sir, has fire-
proof walls.”
ISAACS: “Yeth. that'th a good idea: keep it all inthide and doethn't vaste any.”
COW-COUNTR CALENDAR.
SABAH (coyly): “We’ve been goin' t’gether over five years now, Dave. Don’t th’ time
slip by!”
DAVE (brightly): “Cripes, yes, don’t it! That poddy yer was feedin' when I first saw
yer has had three calves since) then.”
ing, the little dog had its teeth in the man’s
throat, and it would have gone badly with
him if the Peke had not been dragged off.
A touch of Darlinghurst humor was given
to the incident by the fact that the man
who suffered was the Peke-owner’s husband.
His visit was quite a friendly one, but he
was a stranger in that vicinity.
* * * =:=
“Kopt”: A method of dealing with Dar-
win’s ancestors in S’Africa which may be
added to “Der Jong’s” recipe (B. 6/7/’32)
is for farmer De Witt to cut a small hole in
a number of growing melons—monkeys are
very fond of the seeds. During the night
the usual visitation is made, and morning
reveals, at each cut melon, a monkey with
its paw inserted in the hole grasping a paw-
ful of seeds. The monk, has not sufficient
sense to let go the prize so that its paw may
be withdrawn. A tap on the head removes
another pest.
“ Harold Hard-
upp”: A curiously
colored cat which is
an identity of the
Patrick Co.’s Sydney
wharf has made it-
self the heroine of a
strange adventure.
Tibbie often takes a
sea voyage; at the
end of a recent one
she stepped ashore
in Brisbane and pro-
duced a litter of
kittens. Her; family
cares kept her in the
northern city until
they were balf-
grown, and then she
made a reappearance
in Sydney. But anxiety evidently troubled
her, for she disappeared again with the next
boat, found her kittens again, and shep-
herded them on board. Her friends on the
Sydney wharf gave Tibbie a cheer when
they saw her step ashore with her family.
“Yeriyitti”: One of the loneliest and most
picturesque graves in Australia is on the
crest of a hill in the unnamed ranges just
east of the Victoria River (N.T.). Known
as Bradshaw’s Tomb, stark in the landscape,
three-quarters of a mile clear of the range,
this hill overlooks the wild-nigger flats of
the Congo of the North. 50 miles up river
and 15 miles north of Bradshaw’s station.
On the shores beneath it, in 1905, four
white men, Fred Bradshaw, Dannock, Skee-
han and Egorrife, a German, were toma-
hawked to dqath on the station launch as
the result of Egorrife’s alleged ill-treatment
of the natives. Years after bones found
on the beach were placed in a beer-case and
carried to the summit, to commemorate the
tragedy. Whose hgnes they were is another
question, the remains of the victims having
been taken to Darwin at the time. Brad-
shaw’s station, with its solitary white
manager, is to-day one of the most isolated
outposts in Australia, in the country of its
fiercest natives. There is no link with
civilisation beyond the quarterly passing of
the Maroubra, the little coastal boat that
runs up-river for nearly 100 miles to the
depot—and she doesn’t always call in.
❖ :’J Jjs %
A note from Oswald Pryor:—
A Bulletin writer (8/6/’32) says that ethnolo-
gists are curious about the origin of the Oornish-
man’s beard. The accompanying sketch may throw
some light on the matter.
“Smiley”: For years piast Calaveras
County in California has held one of the
queerest sports carnivals on re c o rd—a
i . .
competition m memory. of
ri P aa * immortalised by
Twain. This year over 20,000 people,
thronged to Angel’s Camp, once Dan’l’s
home town, and whence also hailed Abner
Dean, of whom Bret Harte has sung
in “The Society Upon the Stanislaus.”
Frogs from every swamp in California com-
peted, but Budweiser, holder of the title,
hung on to his laurels with a jump of 15ft.
They must breed hefty frogs in California,
None of the Australian frogs writer knows
could cover anything like that on the level.
Indeed, many kangaroos of his acquaintance
would be hard put to do it.
THE FIRESIDE BUSHMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I like to read these swinging staves and
stories,
These sagas of the stations and the track;
Appreciation of the bushland’s glories
Portrayed in glowing lines I never lack;
There’s music in the .screams of painted-
lories,
The clash of shear-blades and the stock-
whip’s crack.
I fairly revel in it, I declare,
Provided I’ve a comfortable chair.
I like to watch the hardy drovers camping:
At close of day out on the great grey
plains,
To hear the roar of far-off batteries stamping
The precious metal from auriferous veins;
I sometimes see myself with swagmen
tramping
’Neath scorching suns or through persis-
tent rains.
Only in fancy though, you understand;
My hikes are solely of the city brand.
I’ve generous sympathy for cockies glooming
Disconsolate in grip of debt or drought;
I feel for squatters, rich when wool was
booming, ■
And now in danger of being down and out.
I know there’s ev’ry warrant for assuming
The country’s backbone these, beyond a
doubt,
'While chaps like us in our suburban cribs
Form the minutest fraction of the ribs.
I like to read the sketches and the verses
That mirror all the gladness, ’spite the
jars,
And sense of spaciousness that reimburses
The dwellers ’neath the everlasting stars
For deprivation of the loving mercies
Contained in public parks and private
bars.
The Great Outback on printed page is fine.
Meanwhile—yes, gin and peppermint for
mine.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
v transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DIT&CtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all ’other parts of the
world.
« of . General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR JULY,
NOW ON SALE.
EXCHANGE & PRICES
POSSIBLE EFFECT ON
MARKET
SHARES
AND DEBENTURES
TIMBER & FORESTRY
OUTLOOK FOR
METALS
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“M ailani”: Booby Island has slipped out
of ken in these unromantic days of un-
attended lights. Twenty miles west of “Thurs-
day” it is doubtful if any speck along our
coasts has collected more history. A mere
rock, a quarter of a mile across, 150 years
ago, and until the colonisation of Thursday
Island, it was a marine post office for the
barques and clippers of the Indian and Aus-
tralian services, and a rendezvous where
they met to compare and test chronometers
Bligh is said to have called in on his famous
open-boat journey after the mutiny of the
ACCORDING TO THE SCRIPTURES.
“Been away for a holiday, Jacky?”
“Yes, Boss. Here to-day, and plurry well gone yesterday."
Bounty; King describes it as “the retreat of
boobies, the pelecanus sulo, and hawksbill
turtle, white with guano,” while Stokes
ascribes its snowy cap to “a summit of
porphyry.” In the miniature gully are
buried tin- wife and young baby of one of
those visiting skippers of the old days. It
Avas Captain Hobson, of H.M.S. Rattlesnake,
that placed there a regular box for letters
and a book of printed forms for every ship
to fill in with remarks, and casks of beef
and other provisions were always left for
the benefit of the shipwrecked mariner. Fox-
stealing those provisions the commander of
a barque was sentenced in the ’eighties to
seven years’ imprisonment. The logbook dis-
appeared in the ’nineties.
“Werrimee”: The experience of the Ger-
. man airmen Avho were forced to live on snails
and lizards in North Australia suggests
that world fliers before setting out should
study a bit of natural history and the re-
sources of the wild parts they have to cross.
There is plenty of food in the north, even
on the seashore, Avhere shellfish can be
obtained among the rocks. Our own air-
men, Smith and TJlm, ate snails where edible
fish were abundant. Any bush man can
make lines; if he lias no bootlaces or xvear-
ing apparel that will supply the necessary,
he can make them from the inner blirk of
trees, and fashion hooks in a few minutes
from twigs and bits of sticks. With a gun
—and that, as well as lines and hooks, should
be included in the equipment of every ’plane
—birds and animals could be got in any
part of Australia. Had the Germans been
so equipped they could have lived well and
travelled leisurely without fear until they
' fell in with natives to guide them. Another
thing necessary in the equipment of long-
distance airmen is a .small magnifying-glass.
Also the knowledge of how to make fire by
friction when the glass is lost. The sawing
method, once shown, is simple.
* =:= ' * *
“Gulliver” : One hot Sunday afternoon in
Carnarvon (W.A.) I became interested in
a row of kero.-tins Avliieh were riding quietly
at anchor in about 6ft. of water some 200
yards from the shore. Suddenly one of
them broke loose from its moorings and
raced madly for the open sea. Almost simul-
taneously a motoi’-launch made its appear-
ance and tore off in pui-suit. I got the solu-
tion fx-om the oldest inhabitant. To each of
the kero.-tins, which are sealed, is attached
a short length of chain with a triple barbed
hook baited with something tempting. The
shark, after taking the bait, generally heads
for foreign parts, but the float goes with
him, marking out his track for those who
come after.
* * * *
“Herpes”: A striking example of the suc-
cess attending on the efforts of the scientists
of the Hall Institute to manufacture anti-
venenes to combat snake poison was seen
in Melbourne the other day. A rabbit
bitten by a copperhead snake was inoculated
with large doses of copperhead anti-venene,
one of the latest to be made. It was unable
to breathe, the poison having paralysed the
respiratory centre. The experi mentors set
to work with artificial respiration, and
worked on for close on ‘24 hours, while the
anti-venene was counteracting the effects of
the snake poison. At the end of the long
struggle bunny revived and Avas soon quite
STRANGE THINGS ARE HAPPENING.
“Mush he new hic-moon. Shertain wazhn’ a cat in zher hic-old one.”
himself again. The incident recalls a Mel-
bourne case last year, when a man -was
admitted to hospital in a moribund condition
from a bite by a tiger-snake received 24
hours earlier. Pie looked a gone coon, but
tiger anti-venene pulled . him through.
$ $ 3* $
“Quie Quia”: “Waranbini’s” opinion that
not more than half a dozen whites have been
shot by aborigines (B. 22/6/’32) is a long
way out. Pigeon, a notorious
West Kimberley murderer of
the ’nineties, shot seven white
men with one rifle over a period
of tAvo years; Major, his coun-
terpart in East Kimberley,
accounted for txyo in a week.
Both of these wei*e civilised
boys who had been taken south
for trips to the capital—per-
haps that explains it. One of
the saddest tragedies of the
kind was the death of Gerald
Durack, of the Baynes River
station, in East Kimberley, at
the hands of his own boy
Nipper. With his young son
Patsy Durack had come out
with waggon stores from Wynd-
ham, to find the home river in
flood. Leaving Nipper in
charge of the stores and rifles,
the white men swam the river,
reached the homestead a few
miles away, and turned in as
usual on the verandah. Awak-
ened by a shot in the night, the
boy called his father and re-
ceived no answer. He was
approaching the bed when a
second shot blazed a trail
across his forehead —he shows
the cruel scar to this day—but
he managed to creep away and
to ride 50 miles to the next
station for help. Nipper quietly
awaited arrest; the boys, white
and black, had been brought up
from babyhood together, and
reminded of this he seemed
regretful. “Good-fella boss, all
right.... I dunno,” - he told the
Court.
“Mulgo” : The dummy selector is extinct,
but he is niched among the immortal bush
characters of other days. He was a study in
contradictions, unscrupulous on one side
and scrupulous on the other. A middle-aged
taciturn bachelor Avho didn’t care for com-
pany was ideal for the job. He had to be
industrious, for a lazy person loafed
through the five years that he had
to reside on the selection and so made
the land unnecessarily expensive, besides
incurring the risk of forfeiture. He had
also to be sober, for it was essential
he shouldn’t talk too much. It was not dis-
creet to employ a dummy whose relations
might be able to help him financially, or
who might die and leave him money; for In-
might double-cross his # principal and be-
come an honest settler in the eyes of the
law. I knew one who dummied and repudi-
ated near the head station, and the war be-
tween the parties thereafter knew no truce
day or night. There was nothing on earth
viler to a crook sqtiatter than a crook
dummy.
“Rochy”: Two prominent members of the
W.C.T.U. in a Vic. country town recently
tried a very interesting experiment for the
benefit of the young girls’ branch of their
organisation. They procured two live crayfish
sufficiently diverse in size to be easily identi-
fiable. With these, one large glass bowl
filled with water and two smaller vessels
(one filled with water and the other with
alcohol) the stage Avas set for an OA'er-
whelming demonstration of the destructive
character of strong drink. Into each of the
small vessels a cray was dumped, and after
an interA r al to allow the alcohol to do its
deadly wmrk, a transference of both was
made to the large glass bowl. To the ex
perimenters’ astonishment the Cray from the
alcohol swam round and round the bowl
Avith vim and eclat, while its companion
sank to the bottom and feebly crawled
around. Painful silence was broken by the
whisper: “Why, the Avhisky’s done it good !”
“Mountain Ash”: Contrary to general
belief a snake does not dig its hole, which
in nearly all cases lias been formed by a
root that has decayed and left a holloAv
under the soil. Incidentally, should a snake
be half-way into such' a hole, it is not
advisable to get too close to its protruding
tail, even if the hole be of such small cir-
cumference that the shake is barely able to
crawl in. Eve’s ancient enemy no sooner
gets a few inches under the ground than he
doubles liis head and neck around to face
the entrance, in the meantime gradually
working the rest of his body backwards.
The best plan is to wait until the tail has
just disappeared and then put a charge of
No. 4 shot into the entrance.
❖ ❖ ❖
“S.T.S.”: An odd result of the Willochra
(S.A.) Creek’s running again is that the
gums along the bank are dying. In years of
drought, salt has worked up through the
ground. The new flow is just enough to turn
this into brine and spread it for miles down-
stream.
IN THE YARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The blue crane’s gone from his favorite tree,
.and the startled wild duck wheels,
\\ hile curlews crouch where the marshy
ground slxoavs prints of the unshod heels.
For bridles were buckled and saddles girthed
Avhen the morning sun was low;
There was hot, fast work on the river flats,
as the sweat-marked leathers show.
Brown Bessiebell’s shoulders are white with
foam, and the grey mare’s flanks are red,
While Flyaway surely belies his name as
he stands Avith drooping head.
Full twenty colts know the. meaning now of
the song that the stockwhips sing,
And the horse-yard gates are safely shut on
the fruits of our mustering.
'Die old man squats on the topmost post and
loosens a biting tongue,
For riders are not what they used to be
Avlien he and liis mates were young;
So he yells advice that is heeded not and
orders that no one takes,
With a scornful “Didn’t I tell yer so?” as a
faulty halter breaks.
But somebody’s bitted the white-faced colt,
a nd the rising dust-clouds show
Lhere s a chestnut filly on mischief bent
Avith her l’ider crouching low;
And the brown mare’s shaking a stubborn
head, but the chastening whalebone
stings;
They force her out through the open gate
and away from the stockyard Avings.
The clean-limbed bay with a hint of speed
has a fly at the eight-foot fence;
A black colt twists like a lightning flash, as
flu lands with his forelegs tense;
There’s a bustling down by (he branding
crush where the trembling yearlings
stand,
A puff of smoke on the morning air as they
press on the reeking brand.
But the last one’s marked with the circle
B, and up flies the sliding door;
The old man drops from his lofty perch, for
the last of the fun is o’er.
'There’s no more vice in the lot. he jibes,
than you’d find in a lady’s hack.
And men can’t ride as they used to ride in
the days when his beard was black.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
Commonwealth Savinas lank of Australia
{.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
nm
mm
6
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
The Ottawa delegates are all at sea about
our trade prospects.
* *
Absolutely no alarm is felt in grazing
circles at the news that our wool clip is
going to the pack!
* #
DOWN IN ARIZONA, 1932.
Suspense pervaded Dandy Dick’s Blue
Saloon for Dainty Cowboys. Pink Freddie
(how different in appearance and ways from
his rude progenitor, Black Mike!) sipped
his crushed caramel sundae half-heartedly.
Ogling Ossie and Winsome Wilfred found
it hard to concentrate on their game of
Snakes and Ladders, and ever and anon the
rest of the boys of Dead Dog Gulch looked
up from their knitting to gaze nervously in
MAVIS: “I’m having tragic difficulty in meeting my debts.”
GEORGE: “Gee, you’re lucky. I’m having the most awful trouble to dodge mine!”
the direction of the saloon door. Crooked
Clarence put down his crewel work and
called for an orange crush to steady his
nerves, and Doodles (“Dinner-suit”) Kelly
chewed hard on his all-day sucker in sup-
pressed excitement. Suddenly the suspense
snapped. Simpering Leonard, the Sheriff,
tripped from his office-boudoir across the
street, and stuck a bill (oh, so prettily!) on
the notice-board outside. With a rip-snort-
in’ rush and an all-fired whoop the cowboys
of Dead Dog cascaded across the street, trail-
ing a delicious scent of bath salts behind
them. Just imagine the excitement. The
Sheriff had pasted up the final results in
the All-comers Open Tatting Competition!
McM.
* *
The U.S.A. seems prepared to spell it
Prohibi-sfwft.
AT THE NUDISTS’ CLUB.
On naked truth they lay no ban,
And of bare facts they’re unafraid.
While nothing on proclaims the man,
Apparel off proclaims the maid.
* ¥
THE BAD MARK.
“Now, sir,” gushed the salesman, “could
I interest you in a hiking tour? It will be
a delightful jaunt of about 15 miles. There
will be every convenience, including a chiro-
podist, broadcaster, sports programme, am-
bulance, cafeteria”
“No, thanks. It doesn’t interest”
“But surely, sir, you realise the manifold
advantages. Consider the spontaneous spirit
of conviviality engendered by community
singing. Ponder on”
“I tell you”
“My dear sir, medical opinion is unani-
mous in recommending hiking, especially for
those who follow sedentary occupations.
After being metaphorically chained to the
office desk during the week, think of the joy
of strolling untrammelled, carefree, o’er
breeze-swept hill and umbrageous dale, glory-
ing in the sheer exuberance of walking on
and on”
“I tell you”
“Not until you have tasted the bliss of
one of our hikes will you realise the solid
enjoyment of walking. A little introspec-
tion will surely reveal to you just how little
you do actually walk in your ordinary
workaday week. Come, sir, let me book
you up for next Suud”
“How,” demanded the salesman bitterly a
while later of those who were applying
restoratives, “how in Hell was I to know
he was a postman?”
S. W. K.
GINGE SCORES AGAIN.
(Let us muscle-in, as one of America’s
Pilgrim Fathers might have said, on this Ginger
Meggs racket, our theme being the sudden ambition
of Mrs. Meggs to figure in the “Sun’s” society
columns.)
“Oh, Ginge, I want that you should leave
this letter inviting our great Premier to
a tea-party.”
“Ar, Mum, ’ave a ’art. It’s me arvo!
’Ave a ’art, Mum, it’s me arvo, Mum!
Ar, Mum”
“Enough of this moron repetitiveness, my
son. If you’re not off in two seconds I’ll
give you such a”
“Ar, Mum Ow!”
“Ar there, Mum ! I gives the invite to
the old bloke, an’ he says thanks, he’ll be
along O.K. An’, Mum, he says, ‘Here’s half
a dozen plaster busts of meself for your
trouble, son’ ”
“Plaster busts! What on earth was
our great Premier doing with plaster busts
“Great Premier! Gosh! I thought you
said late Premier!”
“Will he recover, Doctor? Oh, that I
should have done such a thing!”
“Never fear, Mrs. Meggs. A sturdy frame
allied to modern medical science will pull
him through. But I must confess that your
action in taking an axe to him —to make no
mention of the razor —was irregular. And
why the shotgun?” t
“I suppose this settles my chances of
getting into the papers as an exclusive
Society hostess, Doc?”
“My dear lady, you couldn’t have chosen
a better method. I can see the headlines —-
AFFRAY IN LUXURY HOME.
Exclusive Society Hostess Attacks Son.
Wby Did Popular “Pixie” Meggs Do It?
“All you need do now is to fix up a collusive
divorce with Mr. Meggs, and go bankrupt,
WIFE: “Why did you propose if you didn't want to be married?"
ARTIST: “I’d got so used to being rejected that I never thought
you’d accept.”
and you are, so to speak, set. You have
much to thank this brave lad for.”
“Ar, Mum, take me with you the first time
you go to Government House! Ar do,
Mum ! Ar, Mum”
D.
* *
“It is no longer necessary for the father to be
present at a daughter’s wedding.”
No useful purpose can dad serve
At this franlc time of day;
The girls butt in with brazen nerve,
And give themselves away.
* *
“The antagonists came to an agreement at a
hotel.”
And put it down in Black and White, of
course.
* *
PRIZES FOR WISE BUYING.
Once again the “Daily Whoop,” with lavish
hand, presents cash prizes to readers who
have obtained bargains.
First prize this week goes to Mrs. Agatha
Jizzle, who sold her t.-p. sewing-machine, on
which she had only paid off 255., for £2 10s.
and invested the proceeds in lottery tickets.
Yesterday one of them snavelled a £lOO
prize. As Mrs. Jizzle got her sewing-machine
as the result of an ad. in the “Daily Whoop”
she will also receive a special bonus.
Second prize was won by Mrs. Jemima
McGuggle, who persuaded her husband, the
ex-M.L.A., to stand down at the last elec-
tions in favor of Mr. Buggins, in return for
£lOO cash. Her wise business head was
proved by the fact that Mr. Buggins lost
his deposit.
In addition to the above the following
have also qualified for our special cumu-
lative quarterly contest: Miss Tabitha Dood-
lum, who bought for a shilling at the police
lost-property sale a locked suitcase contain-
ing six bottles of o.p. rum and a packet of
headache powders; Mrs. Martha Prawn, who
took two shillings from the gas meter to
buy a hospital art-union ticket, with which
she won a serviceable electric bed-warmer;
Mrs. Sadie Sump, who put the rent, at 20
to 1. on our turf editor’s tip for the Pincli-
gut Handicap, and lifted £4O.
Let the “Daily Whoop” pay YOU for
YOUR bargains. We simply must give the
money away, having long since given up
trying to pay dividends.
Angus O'Coiien.
THE “SUNDAY GUFF’S” SOCIETY
PAGE MEETS THE TIMES.
“Quite the social event of the week will
be the Bankrupts’ Ball. The committee of
the Broke ,Club anticipate a record attend-
ance. It’s sure to be the venue of some, of
Sydney’s smartest insolvents. The frocking
may not be quite so chic as of yore, but
then, my dear, what would you when hubby
is only offering 4d. in the £!
“Speaking of the exclusive Broke Club,
Clarice, I’m told that membership is granted
only to those whose liabilities exceed their
assets by at least four figures! Licentiates’
degrees are conferred on those who have
assigned their estates; Associates’ degrees
on those who have
‘gone up’ more than
once; while those
hardened warriors
who have been re-
fused their certifi-
cates may achieve
Fellowships. Isn’t it
all positively thrill-
ing?
“On dit that a very
smart cocktail party
was given by Mrs. R.
Watt-Hyde to cele-
brate the granting of
her husband’s Certi-
ficate of Discharge.
The toast of ‘The
Official Assignee’ was
merrily drunk, while
much uproarious fun
was caused by the
host’s running fire of
witty comments on the
various items in his
Deficiency Account.
This is the genial
Richard’s third time
up King-street. H'e
says the O.A. seems
like an old family
friend, while the
Registrar’s Chambers
he regards as a
second home!
“A little bird whis-
pers that the Onkie-
Boobs, one of our
oldest landed families
(they’ve been landed
properly this time,
all right!), mere
pere and fils, had it
all planned to de-
part for Home when
that wretched Taxation Commissioner refused
permission. Absolutely refused, my dear!
Things are coming to a pretty pass when
members of oui\ oldest families, find them-
selves at the beck and call of hired officials.
forsooth! And so say all of us Society
scribes!”
S.
* *
“He died of heart failure in the ring after
making a heavy bet.”
And how can man die better than facing
fearful odds?
* *
Judging by its deficits the P.M.G.’s De-
partment is not making every post a win-
ning one.
“Man wins axemanship competition for third year
in succession.”
For lie’s a jolly good feller!
“I belcher don’t often kill a snake that
size up your way.”
“No. We leave ’em till they’ve grown a
bit.”
“The Queensland Government’ is formulating a
land policy.’’
Anyhow, it’s a substitute for the usual
lend policy.
G. P. S-IONAL.
'* ‘Rags’ never reach the extent of the recent
Eton trouble in Australian schools. Our ‘rags’ are
designed to. keep the new boy from ‘getting fresh.’
Large portions of his head are shaved clean with
safety razors. Then new boys are made to lie flat
on the floor and push peanuts with their noses along
the full length of the room. Each competitor is
urged on by the knotted ends of towels wielded
vigorously. ’ ’ — “Sun. ”
Kings of correct behavior! Lords
Of chivalry in Public Schools,
Whose Christian kindliness affords
Delight alike to knaves and fools!
Keep Eton’s deeds before us yet.
Lest we forget! Lest we forget!
Let that tall prefect, who a roar
Each time he wields a towel wins,
Lambaste his juniors more and more,
And talk to us of larrikins,
Such as at Eton may be met,
Lest we forget! Lest we forget!
From imitating Eton lads,
Who trains and windows sacrifice;
From English “rags” and English cads,
Protect us, Lords, at any price!
We are thy humble instruments.
Lords, help to keep us Pet'feet Gents!
J. D.
PROBLEMATICAL.
Some wonder who designed it.
Others why it was built.
Thousands wonder how long it will last.
The police wonder who will be the next to
jump off it.
Motorists wonder when they’ll remove the
toll.
And taxpayers when it will be paid for.
Which is why it is known as the Wonder
Bridge.
E.


EnqlishFootballei
•sen
doi
•se
value of SHEAF STOUT
WiM
I
m
Mwm
mu
1:4
mm
' ' %
mmi
Here is a well-
deserved tribute
to the health-giv-
ing properties of
Sheaf Stout paid
by the visiting
Rugby League
Team. In the let-
ter below they
say “it definitely
prevents exhaus-
tion after great
exertion”... what
it does for them
it will surely do
for you.
Members of the visiting Rugby
League Touring Team enjoying
Sheaf Stout after strenuous train-
ing at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
ijM 'MMi ;
v \ •• k m iwt^k
'l A.',;!* '»•>, ' /J'*lh.
WMWkCX
v>
; \
SsiUv"
y&
mi i
-32*
Si
3-V
S 5 I® <*■»
vl V
G*v
&
a
&
\0
$
\^ G
A
»<r x-”
\' V _
.;a .cO'
V c^ v
~0,0
vv
o_, ' V > S .•> . £ l'
„, '' £
v' 4 '
'C
s’)*"'
Ojo'
‘
-**+» <i«e* ,„'•'
» , s “ *»** ,*
O'- V
,0*
. qQA
. •<■
,4'
\y>’
v*''
c,o>'
ts*' \fi
i«V
,c» v
A*
>'’V^'
v. V ° “■
A so'
.<• A’
v>*’
*•
A.
.e^V
S-
c°
c cr
c, \ p<
V e „.i e
<b^
o® V V’ v o^
»o*p<*
’>' ,Y 'e> < 'j v a ®>* » 4
<*?•** ,« v ,^v
*ye\vJ
■ e e o«J \.° o^>V
a>' tt -c
» «>' »s
>'l>°>>*°
• - A *^o*V.
«*<e< * ft e^’°e-j e
<&>
**'%&B*«*fr
so" 1 ». e oP . v_e .
a T- . „-v e „<v a V a \.°\o
x. ~4/ Sj;^‘
Half the price of
imported stout
and just as good.
X-SI-SS
TOOTH’S
SHEAF STOUT
■■■costs no more than bottled ale ■■■■■■


tmr $
i
m m m :
mm
yin
a iu
•*
‘"H:
S7SW
>j» 4 \ <
D.S.L
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary—
long, and hard, and gruelling—-they choose
DIAMONDS.
It is Diamonds’ length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place in the
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
pou the same reasons many
Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio set manufacturers, and the
Navy, choose Diamonds.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
Cltf* 1
l* 1
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PIT SILAGE.
In B. 9/3/’32 “Cornstalk” directed atten-
tion to the growing popularity of pit silage
in the neighborhood of Taree (N.S.W.).
Senior Agricultural Instructor Pitt, writing-
in the July “Gazette,” deals exhaustively
with the subject, and considers that the
developments “in the Manning River dis-
trict, and to a lesser degree on the Naiu-
bucca and Hastings rivers,” represent “the
biggest silage drive in the history of the
State.” Said “Cornstalk”: “In the Man-
ning River district the 200 or 300 tons of
silage available last year will be swollen
to 3,500,0001 b. before midwinter arrives.”
Says Mr. Pitt: “In the autumn of 1931
there were only about 100 tons of pit silage
stored in the Manning River district; to-
day the quantity must be well over 2900
tons, which, together with silage contained
in eight or nine recently-erected overhead
silos, is a remarkable achievement, and one
which will mark 1932 as the beginning of a
silage era.’’
The departmental writer says there is no
cheaper or quicker method of ensiling fodder
than by pitting it. Plough, scoop and
mattock are the only implements required,
and at Lansdowne, on a gravelly ridge, two
men, using plough and scoop and four bul-
locks, excavated a trench type to hold about
35 tons in 24 working hours. At Moorland,
on volcanic soil with a very heavy subsoil,
two young men with plough, scoop and two
horses completed a very neat trench silo,
same capacity, in 30 working hours. At
Wingham Brush, on a loamy soil, a young-
farmer using a one-horse plough and scoop,
excavated a 35-ton capacity trench in 20
hours.
Such' pits are 50ft. long at top and 20ft.
at bottom, sft. to 6ft. deep, 9ft. wide at top
and Bft. at bottom. It is important to/ have
the walls smooth and gently sloping, so as to
ensure a constant downward pressure. In
Mr. Pitt’s opinion, two trenches to hold 35
tons are better than one of 70 tons; two such
pits would contain enough silage to feed 35
cows for 34 months, allowing 401 b. for each
cow per day. Loss is trifling, and if a knoll
or the top of a ridge or spur is selected seep-
age will not be encountered. Nor, provided
the soil is well drained, need there be any
fear when excavating a pit ou river-flat
country.
Mr Pitt emphasises the fact that maize
makes the best silage, and it is at its best stage
for cutting when the grains cut like cheese.
The ripest should be pitted first, and there
should be a fairly high percentage of cobs.
To fill, start at one end of the floor of the
trench by laying the bundles with heads
or tassels on the batter. The second row
is placed with the heads overlapping to the
cobs in the first row. Continue thus along
the floor, when the last row will have the
butt ends on the batter at the other end.
The stalks must be all placed lengthwise
along the trench. The second layer is com-
menced at the opposite end to the first, fac-
ing the heads the oposite way and over-
lapping as in the first layer. This
procedure is followed until the surface level
is reached. Pack the bundles in as closely
as possible, especially along the walls, and
keep the middle a 'little higher- than the
sides. After filling to surface level sinking
takes place rapidly. Add a couple of layers
every second day, using the roller to com-
press it. After about a week the downward
movement becomes much more gradual, and
when the level remains apparently station-
ary, lay on more material until it is at least
2ft. above ground surface, keeping it highest
in the middle. Cover with a thin coat
of grass, if available, and again roll. Top
soil can now be scooped on; it should ex-
tend at least 2ft. beyond sides and ends of
silo, and should be at least 12in. to 18in.
deep and banked in the middle. The earth
covering can be rolled and wheat, oats or
rye sown thickly to bind the surface and
prevent washing of the soil. Surface drains
should be made at each side. Should at
any time a depression be noticed in the
surface covering, more earth should be added.
“Provided the site for the pit has been
intelligently selected, the silo carefully
filled and the material adequately consoli-
dated, the silage should remain good almost
indefinitely,” Mr. Pitt remarks. He adds
that lucerne bay is best fed with silage at
the rate of 31b. silage and lib. lucerne hay
per day for each 1001 b. body weight of the
cow. Concentrates, such as cracked or
crushed maize, bran meals and cakes, may
be added.
A SHORTHORN SAGA.
“The Beef Shorthorn in Australia,” by
M. H. Ellis (Sydney and Melbourne
Publishing Co.) is a volume which does
credit to all concerned with it, includ-
ing that notable breeder of shorthorns
Anthony Hordern, of N.S.W., president of
the Shorthorn Society of. Australia, who
made its publication possible. The beef
shorthorn as an established type is only
a little over a century old, as we know it.
It was in 1825 that it was recognised that
a .definite type founded on a blend of Dur-
ham and Teesdale had been established in
Britain, and young Australia was little be-
hind in appreciating the value of the breed
which the North of England farmers had
so carefully built up. To-day the shorthorn
is generally recognised as the world’s lead-
ing beef-producer, in spite of claims by
fanciers of other breeds. It may be called the
backbone of the Australian meat industry,
as the merino sheep is the sheet anchor of
our wool trade.
The book is no mere record of dry statis-
tics dealing with pedigrees and stud matters.
The author traces the history of the short-
horn and its far-away origins with a wealth
of illustration. The introduction of the
breed and its spread throughout Australia
is elaborately dealt with, and the person-
alities of those responsible are treated as
faithfully and appreciatively as are the tech-
nical histories of the great studs which they
founded. Copiously illustrated and admir-
ably printed, this book will appeal, not only
to the expert, but to the layman able to
realise how much interest and romance
attach to such an apparently prosaic busi-
ness as cattle-breeding.
LAMB PRICES AT HOMEBUSII.
“Golightly”: Details of prices realised for
a mixed consignment sent to Homebusk,
Sydney, on June 29 may be interesting.
January sucker lambs, averaging 301 b.
weight, skin value Is., brought 12s. They
were not quite prime, being a bit dry, as
summer lambs usually 'are. September-
October lambs, 361 b., skin value Is. 6d.,
averaged 9s. 6d. These were not prime, but
fair quality and unshorn. September shorn
four-tooth merino wethers, averaging about
521 b., skin value 55., realised 125.; they were
well bred and prime. The lambs and suckers
were out of merino ewes by Dorset Horn
rams.
The five-month suckers at a net return of
9s. Od. were profitable; the eight-month
lambs, netting 7s. 2d., barely so. The
merino wethers, netting 95., showed a poor
return in comparison with that given by the
suckers. The sheep van carrying more
suckers per truck than wethers accounts for
their better net return. In this, consignment
were also broken-mouthed merino ewes, out
of condition. They realised ss. 7d. Any
price was good provided it cleared expenses
—which it did.
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Finn Lee”: I do not admit that we can
successfully grow hard or red wheats, to
which presumably “George Icks” (B.
22/6/’32) refers. Our soils and climate
favor the production of the soft white
varieties, and I have still to be convinced
that they do not play a most important part
in the production of the well-piled loaf of
good texture and color.
If “George” has had any experience in a
bakehouse, he will know that blended flour
will invariably give a better loaf than the
loaf produced from flour unblended. Why?
Because the different millerg buy in different
districts, and the proportion of high-strength
wheat milled in one mill is much greater
than that milled in another, the variation
being disclosed in the flours.
I am not going to admit that the work
of Farrer, Pye and Gordon has been based
on wrong lines. Certainly Pye produced
Minister, a wheat with an abnormally high
strength for an Australian wheat, but this
variety did not survive. High-strength wheat
countries are always in the market for Aus-
tralian soft whites (if the f.a.o. sample is
not right that is not the fault of the wheat),
and it will always be so. What a funny
old bread we would have to eat if every-
body grew hard or high-strength quality
wheats, dark in color and most utipalatable!
First-quality Australian wheat usually vies
in price with Durum ou the English market,
and often leads it. The local miller favors
a higher-strength wheat, lienee the reason
for paying twopence a bushel more for
Minister a few years ago; but really he is
most interested in the percentage of flour.
Personally I think we have given wheat a
fair go in this country, and as far as the
grain is concerned (there is a vast difference
between the strength of hard and soft
wheats) little improvement can be hoped
for. But as to freedom from foreign matter
in the harvested grain there certainly is
room for improvement.
LIME OR SUPER.?
“B. Ware”: “I am using lime manure this
year instead of super., as lime costs a pound
a ton against the fiver paid for super., and
prices of what we produce have dropped
heavily.” This statement was put forward
by many farmers interviewed during a 700-
mile run through various districts in Vic-
toria last month. It exhibits economy at its
lowest ebb —false in entirety and most un-
fortunate.
First and foremost, lime is not a fer-
tiliser, although there are people who term
it a manure. The latter is something which
improves the soil and may not contain more
than traces of plant; food, whereas artificial
fertilisers supply plant food as the main
objective. They stimulate the crop and
enrich the soil and plant, so that not only
is the yield increased but also the quality is
enhanced.
It may be taken within normal limits that
five shillings expended on super, will return
the cost, plus an equal amount in profit. In
addition the quality of the crop grown with
artificial fertilisers is so far improved that
it is readily sold and subsequent consign-
ments are eagerly sought. The increased
yield will reduce the cost, for it does not
cost as much per unit (be it case, bag,
bushel or ton) to grow a maximum yield
as it does to grow a crop returning only
a quarter of this.
The usual dressing of mild lime per acre
being applied to the soil by these farmers
is from 4cwt. to lOcwt. Whilst the value
of lime as a soil dressing is hereby admitted
and advocated, the farmer who considers
that these dressings will do the job as well
as an application of lewt. or 2cwt. of super,
at an equal cost is an optimist.
If you cannot afford to buy your usual
fertiliser requirements, far better, instead of
cropping 100 acres inefficiently without fer-
tiliser, to cultivate 50 acres efficiently with
fertiliser, thereby reducing costs and with-
standing the competition of the times.
_ Fertiliser should be the first considera-
tion on every farm. If you cannot afford
both, turn your attention to lime when good
times come again.
“McNoon”: At Warrnambool (Vic.) the
beach sand has a very high lime content —
approximately 90 per cent. Many years ago,
before the advent of top-dressing with super.,
a local medico spread this sea sand over the
surface of a low-lying paddock about four
miles from the beach, and, according to
people who saw, it, the paddock became like
an oasis in a desert. I have never yet
heard anyone who had tried the sand on
pastures say that the results were not good;
I have heard many say they were excellent.
Where super, has been used on pasture over
a number of years—as on most farms in the
lighter country of the Warrnambool district
—a dressing of lime is necessary even where
it would not have been beneficial without
the years of super.-dressing.
Although there is an unlimited quantity of
sand available, very little is used in the dis-
trict. The representative of a commercial
co. is negotiating for the right to purchase
the sand and truck it to various parts of the
State to be sold as a soil-improver. The
Harbor Board is insisting that no obstacles
shall be placed in the way of district land-
owners having free access to the sand.
SOIL EROSION.
“R. .K. Deea”: For drawing attention in
a concise manner to the dangers of soil
erosion “N.M.F.” (B. 22/6/’32) deserves
praise. Might 1 be permitted to add that
the immediate surface soil on any land
is the richest in plant food (except potash,
which does not matter in the majority of
cases in Australia) ; it therefore follows that
soil erosion impoverishes the land. Poor
crops and crop failures produce a poorer
soil through greater erosion, the leaching of
plant nutrients,, the decrease in humus and
lower bacterial activity.
A good crop gives a larger root system,
with its binding and cover effect and greater
humus supply, A poor crop may leave
only 2001 b. or 3001 b. of organic matter per
acre to be broken down into humus, whereas
a good crop will leave at least two tons.
Therefore, a poor crop promotes erosion, and
in doing so is a soil-robber. Let us grow
good crops, or cover crops, to minimise
erosion and increase fertility.
TOBACCO. <
The first of the season’s sales of tobacco-
jea f j u Melbourne gave point to The Bun
letin’s frequent remark—that we have
plunged into .this farming too precipitately.
Most, men learn most of their business as
they go along, but in this case there is
nmcb more than the technique to be picked
up Tobacco is one of the most “tempera-
mental’’ vegetables in the world, and though
doubtless there are a good many places in
Australia whose soil and climate are both
suitable, nobody yet knows positively where
they are. Of 500 lots submitted in Mel-
bourne only 56 p.c. were sold, and many of
the poorer lines did not attract so much' as
a tenpenny bid. The best price got was
f4d.; the lowest bid' accepted was Is.
I omonal leaf biought the 44d. but Gun-
flownng had the best average, Wangaratta
tlle woist.
r>DTTxrnvrn xrrTvn7>«
. , • ' INEv_.
“ W oorinen : The biggest branches grows
on the strongest shoots. This fact has been
established over several years of research
work on irrigation areas by measuring the
shoot and weighing the bunch on it; the
* w o havo_ coincided in order ot size and
weight. The bearing of tins on pruning is
that the vine should be pruned to give good
strong shoots bearing good bunches. Weak
shoots produce fruit of poor quality and low
su & ar content. On spur-pruned vines all
weak, spindly spurs should be cut out and
strong wood spurred. Spurs should be
t° *- wo ouds, and the cut made close to the
second bud. The first of these buds will
then throw a strong shoot for spurring nex
K ar - Tbls is working on tlie principle that
P r °duces like.
°n vines pruned to canes or rods, such
the , again only strong' - canes
• cauld be laid down. the most tnutfu
} nids or f these canes are not. at the base;
hence the reason for pruning to canes and
buds are the fifth to the fourteenth, ForaiMj
aiiCl e\ eii given a sii}-,iiL iractuie di
f/om^fVise^ud 0 for C next t vearN °pruS’
SJg £ S*drtrlXeiSS to frait ’SK
tsfc
J ire ,0 * freB <* ”*
If vines have been allowed to run down
g 0 that they only throw weak spurs or canes.
they should be p nme d 1o produce more wood
and fed liberally to regain their vigor.
Weak spurs or canes should be entirely eli-
"ta^4 “ I|Ualit7 frnit is to »rodu“a-
*SIAND f „
T . Modestine?’ (Norfolk Island) : Norfolk
Island wants to know what is happening
to its bananas. For eight months it realised
only the lowest prices for really excellent
fruit. In one instance 1.5 951 b. cases
fetched a postal note for 55.! ' Lately we
looked for a decent price to compensate us
for the lean period, and the May and early
June shipments did realise from 12s. to 18s.
a case. But here is. the catch: Charges for
nine cases left £3 10s. 4d. from the selling
price of £5 12s. At this end' we pay on
the nine cases 4s. 6d. cartage. 4s. Gd. boat-
age and 10s. 6d. for the cases.’ Subtract
19s. 6d. from £3 10s. 4d. and you get the
total revenue from a 500-stool block for
five weeks. That is why the island is
turning into a truck garden; carrots, peas,
onions and string beans are expected to
get us out of the mess into which faith in
the slippery banana has dropped us.
_____ —
NUTRITIVE RATIOS FOR POULTRY,
“J.A.S.”: A poultry-farmer told me the
other day he was buying a well-known ready-
mixed laying mash and was mixing with it
more protein meal and dried buttermilk—
and even then, he added dismally, the hens
weren’t laying well. Competition is suffi-
ciently keen among makers of laying mashes
to ensure that a high standard is maintained
as regards ingredients used, payability and
mVntive. ratio. To buy protein-rich feeds
Wlth whlch to supplement such a mash is
of money, _ Rather should the reverse
bf \ done * Experiments have proved that m
a 3^ umn . aI l c J winter na tural produc-
*lon P e birds will lay to their capacity
on a ratlo “ containing only half the protein
f. ,n , ter \t of that fed during the period ol
b, £B e st spring and summer production,
4 , mitritive ratio of the egg is approxi-
J *I > bu t> °\ course, requirement of
tooc * tor e Sg. production is to be added to the
otber requirements of the bird—bodily
maintenance, growth, etc. The. amount will
clep011 ; 1 up °n the. rate at which eggs are
°a pa We of being produced. If the birds
are first-class and are capable of laying an
a (la V the full content of nutrients in
must be added to their other daily
requirements; if an egg every second day is
limit, only half the nutriment content
(Continued on page 3J,. )


BOORS
YOU SHOULD HAVE
Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3;
Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith
Erskine, 8/6; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring Passion, by
Marie Stopes, 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10;
Sex and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; Sex Knowledge, by N. March, 1/8;
Love and Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4;
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of
Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M.
Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D ,
15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Canary Breeding for
Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical Culture,
6/3; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5; Knowledge a Young
Wife Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Mastery of Sex, L. D.
Weatherhead—a vital book, 5/4; These Beautiful Women —Prints of Paintings from
Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge, by Ely Cuthbertson, 8/6; Contract Bridge in
Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’
Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/6; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4;
Eoulsham’s Letter Writer, 8/4; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official
Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Bate”), 2/8; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter,
1/5; House’s Canary Manual, 2/9; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6;
PEN DRAWINGS
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
HIS INSPIRATION AND TECHNIQUE
Many of tlie illustrations in this book appeared in his Pen
Drawings, Now Out of Print.
5/4
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2;
The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11;
Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; Wliat to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6;
Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust.
Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11;
Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer
Finishing, by F. A. Hose, 3/9; Henley’s 20tli Century Recipes, 26/-; Napoleon’s Book
of Fate, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3;
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idriess. 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z
of Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 6/3;
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5;
How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Repair Manual, 4/7; Motor
Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The Modern
Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading Made Easy,
by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood— a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-;
Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall. 13/-; Sex Knowledge—with special
chapter on birth control, 1/8; The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson,
4/7; Universal Cookery Book, One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we recommend it;
Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7; Speed, and How to Obtain It, 4/6; Audel’s Radioman’s
Guide, 8/10; How to Drive a Car, 3/9; Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing Punts, 2/9;
Sound Film Reproduction, Just Out— Special Reference to British Practice, 6/4;
Commercial Art and Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/9; Freshwater Aquaria, by Bate-
man, 10/9; Practical Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 6/4; Painting and Distemper-
ing, 1/11; Outboard Motorboat Book, blue prints, 17/-; Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Ticket
and Signwriting, 1/-; How to Draw for the Press, 1/-; Decorative Design, 1/-;
Roofing, Slating and Tiling, 1/4; All Wave Receivers. 1/2; Fowler’s Mechanics’ and
Machinists’ Pocket Book, 1932, 3/10; The Modern Diesel Engine, 4/6; Mechanical
World Year-book, 1932, 3/-; Birth Control Up-to-date, by Eason, 2/2.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR COMPLETE LIST.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
r
m
&
f
X
X
v y
8*
-rtfcr-'
<sa^-
StW?r*r- n*l
ffTi.imfer.
B®3&
2*
4®^r
■*«*#m*
.W*
tt^
«!$»»•
CSo**
ME
«k
sg-
!5S
dWx
<*s%ss♦«
Kfeggaa
Take Your Hot Baths
and Showers—Cheaply
Enjoy them, luxuriate in them, but don t
pay extravagantly for them.
“IDEAL”
Domestic Boilers
Are Cheapest for Continuous Hot Water Supply.
They are the British, European and American hot-water
ideal. They burn coke, coal or wood and supply hot
water all the time, day or night, at a lower upkeep
than other systems.
An owner states: ‘‘My Ideal supplies two bathrooms
and kitchen continuously at a cost of 2/3 per iceek for
coke. v
The only system for homes, hotels, colleges, clubs, etc.,
where economy is desired. Write for booklet.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.,
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Seven Years’ Rheumatism Ended
A Gold Miner’s Striking Testimony
Here is just one of a number of splendid
letters that afford “proof positive” that
rheumatism in its most chronic stages can
be banished easily and inexpensively.
Mr. W. Healey, Willoughby, N.S.W., writing in
May, 1918, says “ 1 have been a miner; my photo
is on the back of every one pound note. lam
represented there driving a drill. That photo-
graph was taken 4,156 ft. underground, at the
Victoria Quartz, Bendigo, which was at the
time, about eleven years ago, the deepest gold
mine in the world. I have been an invalid for
seven years with miner’s complaint and rheu-
matism. About four months ago 1 had a severe
attack of rheumatism and sciatica. Nobody
knows the agonising, sleepless days and nights
that I went through. At times I could not lift
my right foot off the floor to get from one room
to another. I had to lean on a stick, walk
backwards and drag my foot after me. After
trying several liniments and not getting any
relief I got a bottle of De Witt’s Pills and gained
relief. That was three months ago, and every
night since then I have had eight and nine hours’
peaceful and refreshing sleep."
Later Mr. W. Healey writes “ I have not had
any symptoms since I first took your Pills. My
appetite is better and I continue to sleep well."
(Mr. Healey in this illustration is marked with a cross).
Sr7‘
' r
A
mr&
nm
m
■
1
■-««>
(ffWm.
V.
V v- V-
>/
I
0
*
*
S'
U
'‘V
\s&
m
rid
V*
m
- -I,
v»i.
<
x :v
* *
4,156 feet below surface,
Victoria Quartz Mine,
Bendigo.
FROM FLASHLIGHT PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT KELLY, BENDIGO
i ex P e nence proves that the health-restoring
value of De Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills is permanent. Pain
banished by De Witt’s Pills is banished for good. Mr. Healey’s
testimony is one of thousands telling of chronic rheumatism,
backache, serious kidney trouble ended—thanks to
this 40-year-old remedy.
In 24 hours from the first dose you will see and know this
remedy is doing you good. De Witt’s Pills are no ordinary
pills, but are specially prepared for the relief of pain and
weakness caused by kidney disorder.
_ . ar , e so good, so popular, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills have been imitated. Beware of cheaper,
so-called “kidney pills.” If you want to end your pain and
suffering, see you get the genuine De Witt’s Pills, sold by
chemists everywhere, in the white, blue and gold box, price 3/6,
or the larger, more economical size, 6/6. De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are never sold loose.
Why delay this matter ? Why Continue suffering when
Mr. Healey’s experience can be your own? Make up your
mind now. Say“ I will give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills a fair trial.” If you will only persevere we are confident
that this famous remedy will not only banish your pain and
suffering, but will give you a store of health, strength and vitality
that will mean a new lease of life and happiness.
De WITT’S
Kidney
and
Bladder
w


H
For hard roads and
heavy weather!
Foot ease and snug comfort are
assured under the roughest
conditions if you are wearing
Abbey Cossacks. They are
double soled. And the pliant
uppers are completely lined
with soft leather. Abbey
Cossacks are built to outlast
any ordinary boots. . . .and
they do. For all their extra
strength, too, they are ideally
flexible for active wear.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 40/-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
I FPL 290
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors
BENZINE - KPROSENE - CRUDE OIL
20 MODELS : 3 TO 160 H P.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W
AND AT CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.
DO YOU WANT YOUR
WOOL HANDLED BY
An Experienced Classer
OR BY A LEARNER?
/'"'vNLY experienced men of certified ability
are eligible for full membership of the
WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W.
The Association will supply classers at Current
Rates, and welcomes any inquiries. Apply:
THE WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSN.,
10 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire J.
turc, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Ricks on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine KIBKB Hullg of Vesse ] S) Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.-
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
7*
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants, t
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying ami
Selling Inst Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
_ c/or _
COUCHS
m
A
?:
%
5^
\s
ss
A Better Wrinkle Than These
IS TO USE
SAF
COMBS, CUTTERS AND DUPLICATES
Accurately Made, Correctly Hardened, Perfectly Finished.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
i„ jwf TV«ww«r« 1 THE GRAZIERS* CO-OPERATIVE SHEARING CO., LTD., Sydney.
Jonit Distributors MOFPAX VIRTUE, ltd., Sydney.
Agents
f Victoria: GRAZIERS’ CO-OPERATIVE SHEARING CO., LTD., Melbourne,
j Queensland: QUEENSLAND PRIMARY PRODUCERS CO-OP. ASSN., LTD.,
■{ Brisbane, Rockhampton. Cliarleville, Longreach and Townsville.
| South Australia: STOCKOWNERS’ CO-OPERATIVE SHEARING CO., LTD., Adelaide.
LWest Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.
of one egg needs to be added. Apart from
egg production, the nutritive ratio vanes
according to age—more protein is. used bj
the birds when they are growing than when
they are fully developed, when a ratio as
wide as 1:20 (still leaving egg production
out of it) keeps them in good health.
The obvious conclusion is that much pro-
tein is wasted by poultry-farmers who give
the hock a ration of similar nutritive ratio
on the assumption that, all their birds ait
capable of a similar rate of egg production.
The practice amongst progressive dairymen
is to test each cow and feed her the fu>l
amount of concentrates (by value) which
she will return in actual production, it is
comparatively simple for poultrymen to
follow the same principle—not, of course by
testing each lien separately, but by drattin*
them into different hocks containing indi-
vidual birds of about the same potential
production.
HORSE-BREEDING IN QUEENSLAND.
“Enterprise”: “Knockinnon’s” proposals
(B. 6/7/’32) do not impress me. Queens-
land has already a branch of the Common-
wealth Clydesdale Horse Society; it was
formed in 1921 and lias, through the Federal
Council, published six volumes of the Stud-
book. That book has two sections—one for
numbered stallions and mares having tour
and three top crosses respectively ot
approved Clydesdale breeding (as defined in
the pedigree rules) ; the other for Appendix
mares, divided into two classes. Class A
is for mares having one top cross (that is,
her sire) of Clydesdale breeding; Class B
for females having two top crosses (sire and
sire of dam) of Clydesdale breeding. Stal-
lions are not registered in the Appendix,
whilst none can be admitted to the numbered
section unless got by a registered sire tiom
a registered dam—numbered m both cases.
Now that standard is so broad that lrfbo
stallions and 2955 mares and fillies are num-
bered in the studbook volumes issued, m
addition to which there are several hundred
Appendix mares and fillies entered.
The Clydesdale is by far the dominant
breed of draught horses in Australia. Scot-
tish breeders have evolved a horse which
stands pre-eminent. If we wish to produce
Clydesdales we must follow the standard
set down in the home of the breed. Lower
that standard and breeders will produce
stock of a mediocre class, _ whilst the stai-
lions will be of little help in improving the
standard of the average farm and station
horse.
A studbook controlled by an association of
breeders will not do the draught-horse indus-
try in Queensland one bit of good, especially
as the idea seems to be to satisfy disgruntled
owners who cannot get their stallions or
mares into the Clydesdale Studbook.
“Ivnockinnon” mentions that, because _of
“carelessness or indifference in not keeping
accurate records” of a “typical Clydesdale
mare or stallion bred from first-class im-
ported sires out of approved dams,” a breeder
cannot get his stock into the breed society’s
studbook. Is that sufficient reason for com-
mencing another book? Many others in
various States have met the same fate with
animals which they regarded as typical of
the breed, but they have learnt to recog-
nise that no good will be. served by trying
to lower the standard of registration. One
thing which may be claimed of the Clydes-
dale Society is that it has brought about a
better recognition of one of the accepted
principles of animal breeding—the use of
none but pure-bred or registered sires. It is
the only way to success in horse-breeding.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there any part of the world where two
crops of wheat are grown in one season or
year? —o4l.
Not so far as we can ascertain. In some
seasons a chance second crop is produced
in portions of N.S.W., and, with favorable
rains during the summer, self-sown crops
have sprung up after harvest and a light
second crop has been harvested. This is a
very rare occurrence.
Are smoke screens effective to protect an
apricot orchard against frosts, and how arc
they made?— sB6.
Some years ago smoke screens were con-
sidered of some value, but this method has
been largely superseded by heating. Much de-
pends, however, on the severity of the frosts
and their duration. Heat is recommended
if the temperature is sustained below freez-
ing-point for about six to eight hours, and
in your locality wood fires would be the most
economical to use unless they arc too fre-
quently required. If the frost is likely to
remain for only an hour or two, a smoke
screen created from fires burning mainly
damp grass may be satisfactory. Obtain
leaflet on orchard heating and smudge firing
from Agriculture Dept., Sydney.
(1) What is the formula for the capacity
of a circular tank? I have one 12ft. deep
and Bft. in diameter, and leant to know how
many gallons of water it will hold. (2)
Formula for measuring a 10g? —832.
(1) Multiply together the radius and
depth, and multiply that result by 194.
This gives a figure a little less than capacity.
In the case stated the capacity is 9384 gallons,
whereas the formula gives 936. (2) For
round logs take several measurements of
girth at equal distances in feet. Add these
together, and divide by number of measure-
ments. Divide result by 4. Multiply that
result by itself, and then by the length of
the log. Result is contents in cubic feet,
allowing for waste in sawing.
(1) Can neatsfoot oil he extracted hy hoil-
ing down animal hones. If so, what is the
method? (2) Where to get a hook on plait-
ing, and price? (3) Any small machines for
cutting fine leather strands down to 1-l Gm..
and price? —765.
(1) No; the oil cannot be separated with-
out special plant. (2) Cassell’s “Practical
Leather Work” (2s. Bd. posted), N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney. (3) No machine is
made. Use a ruler and a sharp knife.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bloss”: If your horse develops mange
wash him all over with soap and water ana
apply a dressing of i\b. sulphur. 1 quart ot
whale oil and 2oz. oil of tar.
“Dimon”: The best thing for straining
fencing wire is the'fork of a small sapling,
cut off about 6in. below the fork, and leav-
ing the prongs 15in. or 18iu. long. Bore a
small hole for the wire midway between tut
butt end and the fork. This strainer can be
cut anywhere in timbered country, and is
quicker and easier to work than the roller.
In emergencies, when you can’t bore a wire
hole, pass the end of the wire between the
prongs and bend it on to the butt ot the
strainer, so that a turn will roll the slack
over it and hold it from slipping.
“Gumblegubbin” : Some teamsters, w'ith an
eye to possibilities, saw the tips of the horns
of their bullocks. An accident may happen
in handling the quietest animals that have
sharp horns, and it is a wise precaution to
tip them all. Cows addicted to horning in
the yard should also be tipped, especially it
the horns are pointed forward or have an
upward curve. It. is noticeable that cows
and bullocks with harmless horns seldom try
to use them.
“Marsh” : A good pig-trough can be made
from a 40gal. benzine drum. Cut it length-
wise, and to each end bolt a stout piece ot
hardwood, allowing abotit 6in. of wood out
at each end. Drive four forks into ground
and place overhanging ends of timber into
them. By digging out forks from time to
time and placing in another position m the
sty you can keep ground clean —-spread ashes
where trough has been.
“J. Point” : A good breeding cock at feed-
ing time may fuss round the hens and go
short himself. Give him a feed all to him-
self once a day—midday for preference—of
whole corn or wheat. If this is not practic-
able let him have a holiday of a day or two
from his harem every second week.
“Mulgo”: An old motor tyre is a good
thing to put round small garden trees, especi-
ally those planted here and there on a grassy
plot. When half-buried in the ground, the
enclosed bed can be thickly mulched, and
the tyre keeps it tidy and helps to hold
the moisture.
“Cooramin”: When roofing a verandah
with iron, instead of nailing Gr screwing it
to three or four battens cover the rafters
with boards. Then you’ll have a cool roof
in summer, whereas without the boards it
is insufferably hot.
“Karaway”: Don’t waste old wire-netting,
no matter how crumpled up it may be, as
it comes in useful when concreting a path
or slied floor. Level your ground and peg
the netting on it, then put the concrete
on top. The path or floor won’t crack under
pressure with this foundation, as it is liable
to do without it.
“N. West”: I find white cedar-trees useful
for fodder. The green leaves arc relished
by horses and cattle; their gradual fall saves
lopping—a large tree will provide a meal a
day for a cow for about three weeks. The
seeds are good horsefeed when ripe after the
leaves fall. I have seen sheep die after eat-
ing the seeds, but that was in a drought, and
death was due to impaction.
“Cooramin”; Many graziers swear by
motherimbung (Acacia cheelii) as a fodder
tree. It grows from 15ft. to 25ft. high,
carrying dense, silvery-green foliage, and is
fairly plentiful from about Singleton to Bog-
gabri. During the last big drought it was
the only forage plant left on some north-
western N.S.W. runs, and stock kept fat on
it. But many trees were injured by sheep
and horses eating the bark off the trunks
when they could not get at the leaves and
twigs.
“Gumblegubbin” : If the old putty is hard
to get off when you want to put a new pane
in a window, run a piece of hot iron over
it. The soldering-iron is the most con-
venient. In many cases, brushing over with
linseed oil and turps and letting it stand
q while answers the purpose.
H. W. Crompton, director of the Stony-
fell Olive Co., South Aus., writes: —
Touching- a series of questions about olive-growing
in Queensland (B. 29/6/’32). We know of a tree
in the Austrian Tyrol that has on occasion yielded
a ton of fruit; it is a forest tree, and may be
centuries old. Olives planted 75 trees to the acre
must be pruned and kept—comparatively speaking—-
small. A ton per acre is not an unreasonable expec-
tation from mature pruned trees; but 54001 b. of
oil from 20001 b. of berries (600 at 91b. per gallon)
can only be arrived at with the aid of much cotton -
or catalysed grape-seed oil. A large hydraulic press-
ing plant can be relied upon to give 40 gallons of
oil per ton of fruit. About another four gallons
can be extracted by dissolving processes where berries
are' being crushed in thousands of tons.
“The Breaker”: At Ruthveu station
(C.Q.) the overseer, Gordon Geary, marked
2080 lambs in two hours. There were four
catchers on the job for the first hour and
five afterwards.
The export of Australian horses fell off
pretty badly in 1980-31. The movement was
particularly marked in stud sorts, which fell
from 470 in 1930 to 15 in the following year.
Australian racehorses, once eagerly sought
hy Indian buyers, have of late years been
dethroned by English horses, one of the
reasons given by buyers being that Aus-
tralian owners were asking too much, as they
probably were two or three years ago. The
export of ordinary types—mostly army
horses—totalled 5012 in 1930-31, as against
5855 the year before. Nevertheless, the
total value of the horses that went over-
seas in 1930-31 was £145,348 —a trade by
no means to be despised.
“J.W.W.”: I agree that “once you get
vegetation to grow on poor soil you will
have improved its fertility” (B. 8/6/’B2) ;
it has been my experience both in eastern
and n.-western Yic. Here lies the key to
the reclamation of large areas of so-called
sterile land. Even claypans and wind-
swept spaces, if they are roughly ploughed
and the furrows are left standing up high,
can be made fertile. In the wind the
furrows capture the fine drift sand, most of
which is water-soluble. Break down and
sow to either wheat or oats and you can
get a good crop in a fair season; after-
wards the laud can be relied on to grow
either crops or grass.


Missing Friends.
YY/OULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
W of GEORGE STEPHENSON, for-
merly of Gnotuk, near Camperdown, Vic.,
please communicate with C. D. GAVAN
DUFFY, of Camperdown, Vic., aforesaid
Solicitor.
AN APOLOGY.
“THE BARRIER MINER” offers a humble
apology for the grammatical error which
disfigured its advertisement in last week’s
Bulletin.
All the same, “The Barrier Miner” IS one
of those newspapers which ARE seeking a
remedy for the unemployment plague, though
it sees no daylight through quack financial
nostrums such as currency juggling, etc.
This newspaper is published twice daily at
Famous Broken Hill, and is bought and read
by all within reach of it. What more is there
to say?
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,” give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-rOund excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
Published every Saturday
interest to women.
At Last —Secret of
Health Building
Explained
In these days of modern foods and
strenuous life the intestine becomes en-
crusted with food waste, not properly
evacuated —causing dreaded self-poison-
ing {autoxima), the result of unsus-
pected constipation, from which nine
out of ten unconsciously suffer. Germs
and poisons breed in this fermenting,
accumulated waste, enter the blood
stream, causing loss of nerve energy,
depleted vitality making you “old”
years before your time. Practically
everyone nowadays is more or less in
the grip of autoxima, and it is this
which is the cause of one or more of
the serious faults in their health.
Serious sickness, aches and pains will
surely arise unless this crust on the in-
testine is removed and the body made
internally clean. Temporary measures
only aggravate the condition —the en-
crusted poisonous matter MUST be
cleansed from the system. The prompt,
simple way to do this is to drink
COLOSEPTIC. Gently but surely it
first loosens and dissolves the ferment-
ing matter off the intestine, and then
smoothly passes it out of the body—
without griping or inconvenience. COLO-
SEPTIC activates the kidneys, pores of
the skin, and the respiratory apparatus
—thus ridding the blood stream of all
circulatory impurities.
Do you suffer from constipation,
weakness, headaches, indigestion, gas
in the stomach and bowels, backache,
catarrh, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc.? Drink COLOSEPTIC
every morning in hot water and watdh
your pains or other health difficulties
vanish like snow before the sun. There
is now no reason why you should drag
along with sickness and ill-health. You
can regain that vigorous vitality of
youth throb with energy radiate
glorious health. Prove it for yourself. You
can get COLOSEPTIC in regular full-
size jars from all chemists. Send 1/-
stamps or postal note to COLOSEPTIC
CO., LTD., Dept. P 4. 24 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, for a Special Demon-
stration Jar of COLOSEPTIC, and the
interesting booklet “Autoxima.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Radiators of the old-fashioned order slicd
long sausages of light and warmth about the
Kosciusko-like, heights of the Mayoral draw-
ing-rooms last Thursday, when the civic
hostess gave a party to the glory of Lady
Game. The vice-reiue took the prolonged
handshake (it was one of those big Town
Hall crushes) in cocoa-brown wool maro-
cains in company with the opulence of
sables and a velour hat of the same
warm tones. The Mayoress was all smart-
ness in stone-grey frisca and white
checks. She is very small and slight—a
Mayoress in miniature, as it were. It was
impossible to see the flower scheme for the
massed humans in the rooms, and the first
thing that struck you was that the multi-
tude was a hatted one; in that forest of
atractive millinery, even a few bald heads
would have made a welcome diversion.
Most of the women, were happy in their
fur coats, and some were both happy and
glorious. Mrs. Lloyd Jones’s coat was mink
from high collar to hem; and as Mrs. Bertie
Kelly passed, wrapped in her Persian lamb,
teeth this Letter knows intimately clattered
like castanets in envy. Mrs. Seppie Osborne,
too, wore a coat whose claim to be a Vere
de Vere of the forest seemed justified by
its suave bearing. Mrs. Tom Rolin, Mrs.
Harry Dransfield and Mrs. Dettman were
others among the richly furred; but Hugh
Denison’s lady was the only one who sported
one of those flat-as-a-plate hats. It was
black and worn with a dress of geranium-
red in one of the new soft woollen materials.
Notable guests were Mbs. Stevens and Mrs.
Bruxner. Donna Grossardi’s slim height re-
presented Italy, Mungo MaoCallum’s lady
brought a touch of academic serenity, and
another in the poinsettia and wattle-decked
room smiled on by every woman was former
Mayoress Joseph Jackson.
Moiseiwitseh struck a new note by opening
his concert season on Thursday, but, judg-
ing from the by no means overflowing house,
the time-honored Saturday debut is better
showmanship. The night, too, was bitterly
cold, so probably many an unreserved stayed
at home. Even E. J. Tait hid his shins behind
a rug, as also did Mrs. Moiseiwitseh and
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks; and when the manage-
ment hauls, down the flag like that to Jack
Frost what can be expected of the man who
has to take his money as well as his hands
out of his pockets at the box office? _ Mrs.
Moiseiwitseh has hair as black and shiny as
patent leather and a creamy skin. Her
frock was of velvet, berry red, and her wrap
was of heavy ivory silk, collared in ermine.
French was spoken a trifle more volubly
and much more frequently on ferries and
trams last Thursday. It was France’s Day,
and judging by the chatter the fact occasions
at this remote date from the actual fall of
the Bastille, Babel must have seemed a vast
silence by comparison. There’s something
very jolly and sparkling-wineish about the
French one hears on France’s Day, for not
only up at the Consulate are the patriotic
toasts honored. The French Consul-General
held his usual court, Mr. Dussap acting- host
for the first time in Sydney. The Consuls
of other lands went along to quaff a glass
to the Tricolor, and the handsome Com-
mandant Constantin, of the Bellatrix, was
among the official callers. Previously he and
his officers placed a wreath on the Cenotaph.
For the evening the French Alliance had
arranged a dance, preceded by a one-act
comedy, and here the officers of the Bella-
trix glittered among the various parties.
Consul-General Dussap and his wife enter-
tained a group at their table. Sunset pinks
and blues enwrapped Mrs. Dussap, who
looked radiant at being in the midst of such
waves of French sound. The Governor-
designate of New Caledonia, M. .Tore, and
Colonel and Mrs. Almaric, of Noumea, were
official guests. Marguerite Wunderlich was
there with her affianced Count Pietfasanta.
Belgium’s Consular Segaerts and Mexico’s
Consul Zalapa and his wife were among
the revellers.
Mrs. Derek Peachey, who died last week,
married a wealthy subaltern in the Grena-
dier Guards a couple of years ago. She
was Betty, the younger daughter of Edwin
Ryrie, who was in England when the war
began and served in the R.F.A. Her mother,
who was Queenie Osborne and a Titian-
haired beauty in her day, died in London in
1927. Both the Ryrie sisters went on the
stage, and both made brilliant marriages.
Their father began his working life as a
grazier in the Monaro. Then he took to
writing, and figured for many years in Syd-
ney as an able propagandist in the interest
of lower tariffs. Finally he startled his
friends by writing a novel, of which the
heroine was his elder girl Dorothy.
A former acting-Justice, Alexander Ral-
ston, K.C., died in Sydney last week after a
long illness. His case puzzled the doctors;
he had been virtually in a state of coma for
many months. ITe married into the Windeyer
family—his wife was a sister of the well-
known K.C. —and he had three sons, one a
barrister who distinguished himself in the
war. The elder Ralston was a bril-
liant success at the Bar as a junior,
and a terror to malefactors as a Crown
Prosecutor, but his practice fell off for
some unexplained reason after he took
silk. He did good work as an acting-judge
in the District Court as well as on the
Supreme Court Bench, and gave up a lot of
his time to aldermanic work in Burwood, of
which he was a patriotic citizen.
The son who has just been born to young
Jim Onslow should be a very affluent lad
indeed in due course. The family own an
enormous lot of house property in Sydney—
chiefly in the Potts Point and Elizabeth Bay
area—in addition to dairying land about
Camden, The newly-arrived infant repre-
sents one of the few who are in the direct
line of descent from the pioneer of Aus-
tralia’s wool trade. Arthur Macarthur (a
brother of Mrs. Jim Onslow, sen.) has only
one son (the other died in Egypt during
the war), and Bayley, the barrister-yachts-
man, is childless.
The German woolbuyers had a night out
last Saturday to celebrate the marriage of
Betty H'ilbert, of Neutral Bay, to Haus
Beck. The ’groom, Betty’s father (O. Hil-
bert) and the two groomsmen all buy Aus-
tralia’s wool for the Fatherland, so the wed-
ding dinner at the Forum Club was a suc-
cession of meats, cooked in the German
manner. The vows were exchanged in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral.
Marguerite Polin, of Mosman, true daugh-
ter of France, chose July 14 for her wedding
with Jean Lamerand, youngest son of the
P. Lamerands, of Greenwich. The two were'
made one in the Catholic Church on Brad-
ley’s Head at eleven o’clock of the clear
cold morning. The bride’s white satins
and tulle were followed by the red and blue
flowered chiffons of sister Marie Therese,
so that the tricolor was honored yet again.
The home of the bride’s grandmother, Mrs.
Playoust, now visiting France, was the scene
of the reception. Mr. and Mrs. Jean
Lamerand left last Saturday by the
La Perouse for their honeymoon in the New
Hebrides.
With the first month of Spring Music
Week takes possession of Sydney and the
suburbs, even to the farthest reaches of the
North Shore line. This year it will make
no lialf-apologetic debut, but will burst upon
the _ general gaze in a series of tableaux
depicting the power of music since those
early days when David played before Saul.
There is even talk of presenting Henry the
Eighth playing the hautboy—or is it lowboy?
—accompanying the love songs of which,
according to Roland Foster, at the Lyceum
Club last Friday, he was a masker composer.
The lunch 1 was one of the activities of the
Club’s music circles, and the only bitter
among the sweet was that the speeches were
made to the accompaniment of a lift that
emulated the scale ascending and descending.
There was great applause when Mr. Foster,
whose hand as usual is guiding the week’s
joystick, announced that this year the Gov-
ernment is giving its support. The Mayoral
Walders are flinging wide the Town Hall
reception-rooms to harmony, concerts are
being planned for the school kiddies and
their parents, and the whole will cascade in
a rainbow of joyousness on the night of the
revel which is always the finale to Music
W eek.
Mrs. Margery Brown, whose libretto in
company with Arnold Mote’s music has just
won the Opportune Club’s prize of £lOO,
was among the listeners who heartily
applauded the aim of a national ideal in
Australia’s music. Mrs. Muscio, Miss Eliza-
beth Plummer, Mary Gilmore, the Alexander
Gordon lady and Mrs. A. G. Thomas were
others at the official table. Dora Wilcox,
who made a speech as brimming with beauty
as a Chopin nocturne, sat further off with
husband Bill Moore.
There were very few men at the party,
but one was the distinguished Belgian actor
Carlo Liten, whose beautiful head would
fill a Longstaff or a Rayner Hoff with joy.
Mr. Liten will give his first recital in
Sydney next Friday at the Forum Club;
the programme will include De Musset, Ver-
laine and Baudelaire. He is travelling in
company with a good-looking young nephew,
and the two were delighted to find their
tables decked in Belgium’s colors, yellow and
black pansies and red camellias making the
pattern. Ethelwyn Kirk was responsible at
about 10 minutes’ notice for the compliment.
She and Don Finley, incidentally, will be
responsible for some of the Music Week
floats.
Mrs. Cyril Monk, wife of the talented
violinist, must be one of the State’s most
popular writers of music. Many of her song
c o m positions
have won suc-
cess in her
own country,
an exception
to the hack-
neyed rule
applied to pro-
phets. Mr s.
Monk’s latest
achic vement
was the set-
ting of T. S.
Gurr’s libretto
“Collitt’s Inn”
to music, the
result winning
second place in
the Opportune
Club’s operetta
c o in p e tition.
Before that
she had won
the Radio
E i |S t e d d fod
song competition, and about a decade ago
she pocketed £lOO offered for an Australian
song by the old “Sunday Times” manage-
ment.
The story of “Collitt’s Inn” is full of
action and romance and has the advantage
of being a bit of Australian history. With
its stately manners and period costumes it
would make a direct stage appeal. Songs
like “Last Year.” “Stay While the Stars are
Shining” and “The Outlaw” catch the ear
and the imagination.
Dean, of the Union Club, who died sud-
denly last week, was as well known as Mit-
chell, of the Australia. He was a servant of
the club for 48 years. He had been hall
porter for over 30 years, and it used to be
said of him that he never forgot a face after
he had seen it once, never failed to know if
a member was in or out, and always used
Ids knowledge like the shrewd diplomatist
he was.
In addition to the old-established Ex
Libris Club, a new companionship of book-
plate-lovers has been formed in Sydney. It
has been named the N.S.W. Bookplate Club,
and has for president George Fitz Patrick, of
St. Margaret’s Hospital. George is a " keen
collector of bookplates, and a year or two
ago had an idea of collecting for his school-
boy-son the plates of all the living famous.
The new club has periodical ballots, and
the prize is a bookplate specially designed
to the winner’s order. Mrs. Zabel, of the
Roycroft, won the first ballot, and Gayfield
Shaw’s etching needle is already busy on
her choice. S. S. Blake, of O’Connell-
street, drew the second ballot, and his prize
is a lino-cut by G. D. Perrottet.
The big noise at the Lady of the Air
Tourney Ball was the air dragon that swept
down on the dancing floor, snorting smoke
from the nostrils, and bellowing, contralto-
like, from its innards. This was the finale
of a glittering night, and the dancers romped
around the big floor in a great crocodile,
wherever the dragon led. Before that there
had been an air race in which the girl
entrants in the tourney (it’s _ a money-
raiser for the Benevolent Society) with
their partners propelled a model ’plane,
.arranged on wires, across the ballroom. A
picnic hamper stocked by Foggitt Jones was
the prize for the winner of each heat. Then
there were the 2000 miniature aeroplanes
which were dispatched on their buzzing way
across the floor from the dancers’ hands.
A dainty ballet, a display of fashions and
a group from “Bitter Sweet” in period cos-
tumes were other of the attention-riveters
in the jocund night. Civic dignity came in
the persons of Mayor Walder and liis lady;
the Navy was represented by the Farquhar-
Smith couplehis State Ex. was proxied by
Lieutenant-Commander Gifford; the Geoff.
Kings took the place of the Geoffrey Hughes
couple (both away with colds), and R.
Williams was the Air Board ambassador.
Benevolent Society president W. Thompson
was a chieftain among the official guests.
When the story of the film industry m
this State is written the McDonagh sisters
will need a
page or two
for their at-
tempts and
a c hievements.
The three sis-
ters, Phyllis,
Isabel and
Paulette, have
been putting
their money
and talent into
the making of
Australian pic-
tures for the
past seven or
eight year s.
Just now they
are working on
Leslie H ny-
lon’s “T w o
Minute s’
Si 1 ence,” a
dramatic war
picture with a
difference, written by a well-known country
journalist. Phyllis, the girl in this Dorothy
Welding picture, is the art-director of the
venture, Isabel will appear as the French
girl, Denise, and Paulette is responsible for
the continuity script.
The sex has no occasion to feel ashamed
of Architect Elisabeth Scott, A.R.1.8.A.,
the young woman who designed the ultra-
modern twentieth-century Shakspeare Memo-
rial Theatre. Her plans won in a competi-
tion open to all the world. The completed
theatre (it is within a stone’s-throw' of the
400-year-old bridge over which motorists
enter Stratford-on-Avon) represents four
years of concentrated effort, including six
months’ travel and research into the very
latest theatre designs. Of particular in-
terest to Australia is the fact that in the
panelling of the auditorium Australian
(Queensland) walnut plays a large part, and
that in the inlaid veneering of the exit
doors leading to the corridor Australian
silky-oak lends its sheen, its Empire neigh-
bors being Honduras mahogany, padauk
(a wood from Burma and the Andamans)
and Indian laurel wood. Again in the floor-
ing of the restaurant on the ground floor
Australia’s timber has a place. Our jarrah
and Indian gurjun form an ingenious pat-
tern in contrasting tones.
A friend of this Letter’s went out to visit
a sick friend and took out to the invalid
a pair of chickens, plump and tender. When
she was leaving, she presented the neat
brown-paper parcel with the injunction:
“Tell him he’s to eat every bit of it.” That
night, about ten o’clock, her cook came to
her with, “Madam, what do you want me
to do with the pair of chickens the chauffeur
brought from the car?” Madame looked
aghast. “But where did they come from?
I handed them over myself.” “I don’t know,
madam,” returned the cook coldly, “but I
asked the chauffeur to bring me home a ham-
bone, and he can’t find that anywhere in
the car.”
Queensland’s quota:—
The Governor and Lady Wilson and daughter
Marjorie visited the soldier patients at tha Anzac
Hostel, Kangaroo Point. Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Rowe,
Mrs. W. T. Can - , Matron L. B. Denniss and S.
Howard, president of the 1.5.5. A., received them.
A garden party was in progress for the funds of
the I.S.S. Association and their Exes, gave their
patronage to every stall.
Grey and gold Wattle Hay League colors decorated
the City Hall for the R.A.C.Q. Ball on behalf of
Children’s Day. A roll of drums heralded the
entrance of the v.-r. party. Mr. B. F. Lloyd and
Constance Lloyd, she in vellum silk lace, received
them. Lady Wilson was in black crepe mariette
with bands of beaten silver; jade green with a white
fox wrap was worn by Miss Wilson. The Mayor
and Mayoress were present, Mrs. Greene in ivory
lace with elbow gauntlets of black fox.
Dr. Brooke Nicholls, of Melbourne University is
on a caravan tour in Queensland; among his gather-
ings are some wonderful films of the Barrier Reef
and some rare photographs. His wife and Mrs. Jury,
of Victoria, are with him, and an honored member
of the party is the kookaburra whose record has
been heard all over Australia on the radio.
Blue-eyed Royale Journeaux, daughter of the late
W. B. Journeaux and of Mrs. Journeaux, New Farm,
Brisbane, announces her engagement to R. A. Ormsby
Martin, son of the N.S.W. Minister for Justice.
Mrs. Young presided when the Lyceum Club enter-
tained Lady Wilson and her daughter. Lady Wilson
was in brown flecked tweed with a shorn lamb
collar; lemon wool stockingette with a blue and
white spotted scarf was worn by Miss Wilson; Mrs.
Young chose black satin beaute; Mrs. E. Munro
was in dahlia-red; and Ann Douglas chose navy.
At St. Mary’s, Warwick, Lionel Larsen and Wilga
Morrison exchanged vows. Girl Guides decked the
church and formed a guard of honor. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in white
bridal satin and embroidered veil. Old gold ring
velvet was worn by the ’maids, Sheila Morrison and
Marie Larsen. The feasting was at the Soldiers’
Club.
The Governor and Lady Wilson had a dinner at
Government House for the C.J. and Lady Blair,
the A. E. Moores, R. M. King, W. H. Barnes, Com-
mander and Mrs. McFarlane, Brigadier E. M. Ralph
and Miss Ralph, Archbishop Sharp, the Glasgow and
Macartney couples, the J. Cadell-Garricks and Allan
Jeffrays.


Mill
14 Days of
Cut Price
SPECIALS
Men’s 70/- Sac Suits
m
Costs and profits forgotten in
this great stocktaking clear-
ance. A perfectly-cut Suit with
a saving of 12/6. Made in j
excellent quality Serge. Coat, j
Vest and Trousers, ready for
immediate service, in sizes 3 to
7, for 57/6
Some from
Hundreds
Men’s 15/11
Pullovers - -
7/11
Men’s All-wool Pullovers in the
“V”-neck style. Popular plain
shades. Two pockets.
Men’s 22/6
Hats
15/11
Men's Pure Fur Felt Hats in “Snap-
brim” shape. Shades of Light, Mid
and Dark Greys, Fawn or Beaver.
Silk lined, too! \ .
Men’s 8/11
Shirts
5/9
Men’s Dressy Poplin Golf Shirts in
tasteful colored stripe designs.
Collar to match.
Men’s 4/6
Socks
2/3
Another for half price! Men’s All-
wool Cashmere Socks in popular
shades and designs. (3 pairs for
6/6.) And hosts of others.
We pay freight.
Write letters to Desk “R.”
Murdoch's Ltd.
SYDNEY
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND
BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Everybody at Caulfield on _ Saturday
seemed to be seeking confirmation of a
theory that this was the very coldest day
on which races had been run there. Dress-
ing was a matter of furs. The Luxton lady
was wrapped in a mink coat, topped wtih a
brown felt hat. With her was Mrs. U. J.
Nicholas, whose gown was hidden beneath
.beige-dyed squirrel. Rear-Admiral Hyde’s
wife was all in brown, her costume having
a belted coat, and her alike-hued felt mil-
linei'y sporting two wee owls. Mrs. Val
Macdonald, who was companioned by Mrs.
Leslie Maepherson, brightened her black
suit, with its coat of broadtail, with
a scarf of Belgian colors, her knitted-wool
hat being banded with white. Mrs. Richard
Linton had a cape with many tails, and
her niece Elaine Linton, from Sydney,
topped her squirrel coat with a green felt
hat. Mrs. L. Aldridge, who was a study in
reseda green, brought her sister, Mrs. G. C.
Braund, of South Australia, who wore a
wine-colored costume with the same shade of
hat. Major Wilkinson was there, but there
was no vice-regal representation. In the
throng were Mr. and Mrs. James Furves,
Florrie Green, Mrs. Ben Chaffey, Ms. A. V.
Iliskens, Mrs. Fogarty and her daughter
Celia, and Mrs. M. J. Canny.
In connection with the 70tli anniversary
of St. John’s, Toorak, the scene of many
fashionable weddings in recent times,
tableaux and pageants, directed by Mrs.
Law, wife of the vicar, were staged at the
City Hall, Prahran. Knight George Fair-
bairn launched the entertainment. In the
afternoon the first scene presented depicted
the congregation leaving St. John’s after
the first service, the Governor, Sir Charles
Barkly, and his wife being personated by
Captain D. H. Magee and Mrs. F. Massey
Burnside. Then followed a baptism, a con-
firmation group of white-robed girls and a
wedding ceremony with its attendant fes-
tivities. John Brownlee filled the role of
bridegroom, with Phyllis Timmins, in ivory
brocade, mellow with age, and a lace veil,
as the bride. Mrs. Brownlee, in a primrose-
h'ucd frock, looked on as one of the guests.
In the evening Valerie Purves, Wendy Outh-
waite and Rosemary Downes figured in some
of the scenes. Children of St. John’s kinder-
garten frolicked in maypole dances, and a lot
of gusto was put into a representation of
a church picnic. Ivy Ball arranged the
musical programme to which Roy Chandler,
Millicent Osmond and Harold Murphy con-
tributed songs.
The Alliance Frangaise celebrated the
national day of France with a dance in the
lower chamber of the Town Hall at which
the Lud-Mayor, the consuls and British
Trade Commissioner 11. L. Setchell and his
wife were official guests. Red, white and
blue flowers and balloons decked the hall.
Rene Vanderkelen and his wife received the
guests, she in a chenille embossed white
gown. Chief engineers of the. jollo were
Madame A. Gay, who danced in georgette
of deep golden hue; and Madame Cocker-
ton, in royal-purple chiffon. Marie Tait and
C. S. Wilkinson gave an exhibition of danc-
ing. Mrs. R. G. Casey, Mrs. George Chirn-
side, John Brownlee and his wife and Mr.
and Mrs. W. Mortill were there.
St. Pat.’s Old Boys’ Association’s dance
was held at the Wattle Park. The presi-
dent, F. F. Clausen, and his wife received
the guests, who included the rector of St.
Pat’s., Father O’Dwyer, and the rector of
Xavier, Father O’Brien. Mrs. Clausen, who
- carried a presentation bouquet, wore a gown
of dome-blue satin with a coat of gold and
flowered brocade. Dr. and Mrs. M ail rice
MacGillicuddy were there, she with a gleam
of rhinestones about the corsage of her
black velvet gown. Dr. and Mrs. Pollock
also attended, the lady in black and white
satin. Nancy Baird’s chiffon frock with
its frilled berthe was of leaf-green hue;
Mollie Dooley wore peach-pink taffeta
mingled with filmy lace of the same shade;
Joan Cass came in a flock of white taffeta,
and Kath Fitzgerald chose tourmaline pink.
Molly McNamara, who represented Genaz-
zano Old Girls, was in a white lace-flounced
gown of cobwebby texture. Mr. and Mrs.
Ray Connelly were present, she in white
chiffon topped with an apple-green velvet
coatee.
Mrs. Ernest Poolman’s dance at her South
Yarra home, which was decked with early
spring blossoms and winter foliage for the
occasion, was in honor of Valerie Palmer,
who was Mrs. Poolman’s guest for Grand
National week. A gown of dull gold lace
was sported by the hostess, Mrs. Palmer
choosing chiffon of lapis-lazuli tint.
The Ormond Hall wore nautical dress
when the staffs of the inter-State shipping
companies gave a dance for the R.V.1.8.
House flags, lifebelts and other items of
ship’s chandlery were grouped under colored
lights. Jean Campbell, of the Union Co.,
who wore delphinium-blue satin, and Mar-
jorie Pine, of Mcllwraith, McEacharn, who
was in blue of deeper tint, were on the
committee.
The Mount Buffalo Chalet ball at the
Wattle Park was attended by a crowd of
1500. There was a representation of a
snowstorm, in showers of fluffy paper
flakes; a great snowman dominated the
centre of the floor, and across the end wall
was a picture of the chalet with a panoramic
view of its winter setting. The band was
uniformed in snow-sports attire, and there
was a mannequin parade of woollen togs of
the same type. There were many cabaret
turns, and two step-dancers made entrance
in a huge snowball. Proceeds went to the
Lud-Mayor’s fund, and Gengoult Smith was
there looking happy at the prospect of a
substantial donation.
The Malvern Homecraft Hostel has lately
moved to larger quarters at 29 Mercer-
road in the same locality, and there was a
kitchen and linen tea, the 300 guests pro-
viding a host of useful articles.
To buy an ambulance van for Melb. Hos-
pital there was a bridge party at Buckley
and Nunn’s, over 70 tables being occupied.
Joan Brett, of the Almoners department ot
the institution, explained the institution s
need for a new vehicle.
To advertise “What Next?” the co. headed
by Maisie and Beryl Cowper pretended to him
a movie melodrama scene in Coll ms-street
one morning. Passers-by were arrested by
a shrieking heroine (Betty Blogg) endeavor-
ing to jump out of the windows ot an un-
tenanted building, being pursued by/ the vil-
lain (Les Raphael). Camera men vigorously
revolved handles till the lady was rescued by
two heroes. It took but a few seconds to
collect a crowd that obstructed the traffic.
Delighted with their success the actors
decided to repeat the performance, and did
so, but this time, as the lady yelled her
loudest and took some daring risks about
the window-sills, two men, not noticing the
cameras, rushed to her aid. They fell upon
Mr. Raphael, who had a hard job to explain
that his villainy was simulated
The Fintonians managed to just about fill
the Comedy Theatre for a performance of
Louis N. Parker’s “Summer Is A-comin
In,” with “The Exclusive Set,” by Alfred W .
Paxton as curtain-raiser. Proceeds went to
charity. Bess Mackay, who was leading lady,
sported an alluring suit of pyjamas and an
evening gown of black taffeta sprinkled with
a cherry-colored blossom, her satin shoes
being of the same bright hue. Olive Norman
produced this play, and Mr. Paxton super-
vised his own effort. Peggy Mitchell was
hon. sec. and Miss N. Reay and Sister
Elliott looked after sales of flowers and
sweets.
The Italian principals of the Firm’s opera
co. paid tribute to Melba’s memory on a
Sabbath afternoon by visiting her grave at
Lilydale and laying lovely flowers thereon.
Apollo Granforte, an old friend of the Diva,
lifted his baritone voice in an “Ave.” After
their little pilgrimage, the artists went on
to Coombe cottage.
The youngster pictured here by a Dickin-
son-Monteath camera is Isabelle, daughter of
baritone John
Brownlee, who
is singing his
way through
his own land
after a suc-
cessful career
in opera
abroad. Mrs.
Brownlee, who
is an Italian
countess, is
making friends
in Vic. wher-
ever her hus-
band’s concert
tour takes
him; but the
wee girlie re-
mains with
her grand-
parents in
Melbourne.
Isabelle, who
is two years
old, was born in Paris and is Melba’s god-
child, in celebration of which she numbers
Nellie amongst her names. When she came
here a month or so ago French and Italian
were blended with her English, but she is
becoming Australian with great adaptability.
The Austral Salon mustered its members
to welcome Mr, and Mrs. John Brownlee.
Hon. sec. Edith Billinghurst handed to the
baritone’s good-looking wife a posy that
blended nicely with her ink-blue tailored
suit, set off with silver fox furs and matching
felt hat. Mrs. M. Quinlan spoke words of
greeting, to which John made thanks. There
was a short programme of music arranged
by Kitty Gleeson, who had enlisted the trio
of Prockter sisters, Gwen, Marjorie and
Joyce, and singers Lorna La Frenz and Irene
Franklin.
Principal item in a matinee performance
at the King’s, in aid of the Xavier College
Memorial fund, was the wooing scene from
“The Taming of the Shrew,” played by Sybil
Thorndike and L,ewis Casson. Lina Paliughi
sang “The Bell Song” from “Lakme.”
Minnie Love and Alfred Frith also contri-
buted items. Gladys Moncrieff sang “I Was
Dreaming” and “My Hero”; and Eileen
Castles, Alban Whitehead and Kathleen
Goodall sang, too. Students from Jennie
Brenan’s school in the faintest pink tulle skirts
and satin bodices flitted on tiptoe in “Les
Sylphides.” Tui Black aided Alfred Frith
in an operatic burlesque. Melbourne’s Little
Theatre Co. introduced a skit on melodrama.
“The Mystery of Manfred Moon”; and
Isabel Handley was represented by a laugh-
able play all in rhyme. Cecil Frazer’s broad-
casting dance orchestra was also on the
extensive bill. Mrs. Raymond Buxton,
Mollie Warden, Marjorie Burke and Mrs. P.
McCauley were the chief engineers of the
very successful show, which was attended
by Archbishop Mannix.
From beyond Bass Strait: —
The Percy Walches celebrated daughter Brenda’s
coming-of-age by a party at the Imperial, where the
ballroom was decorated with masses of gold and
tawny chrysanthemums. Supper was served in the
big dining-room at tables decked with bowls of roses
and violets. Mrs. Walch was in black embossed
georgette, and bright-eyed little Brenda sported man-
darin-red georgette,' with short white coat.
It was a bright idea of E. J. McCann to broad-
cast “Maritana” from the Bush Inn, New Norfolk,
where Wallace wrote the original many years ago.
P. S. Shaw supplied an introduction to the theme,
and a company which included the cream of our
vocalists sang the opera. The orchestra was re-
markably good and well-balanced. After the per-
formance there was a commemoration ceremony, when
a pear-tree was planted in the old garden on the
spot where some of the music was composed.
Congratulations to Muriel Crabtree, ex-pupil of
Broadland House,-who some time ago took her M.Se.
degree at Melbourne University, and has now won a
scholarship which admits her for a year to Bryn
Mawr, at Philadelphia.
At the Broadland House Ball Miss Rooney, head-
mistress, was official hostess, and sported a very smart
turnout of bright red georgette, with fur fabric coat
in the same shade. Sheila, daughter of, Archdeacon
and Mrs. Atkinson, was the sole deb. to crack the
shell.
Miss Janie Reiehenberg, who lately passed over,
was organist at St. Joseph’s for over 60 years, and
tor nearly 50 of them she never missed a single
Sunday. She died at 86, having been connected with
Hobart’s musical life nearly ail her days.
The attendance at Newnham for the Hospital
Day’s race meeting was somewhat disappointing;
the last race was run in a thick fog'. Among those
present were the V. C. Halls, Mr. and Mrs. H. W.
L. Von Steiglitz, Mrs. J. Riva, Mr. and Mrs. E. J.
Humphries, Mrs. Charlie Martin, Mrs. E. R. Green,
Mrs. Tulloch Scott, the Rupert Agnews, Mr. H. P.
Harrisson, Misses Lorna Barlett and Nell de Dassel.
There are still many people in the Speck who kept
in touch with Lady Hamilton, wife of one of our
former Governors, who has lately passed out in the
Cold Country. She was active in promoting all
manner of literary and artistic activities; the
Hamilton Literary Society, still going strong, was
founded by her.
Adelaide’s little lot:
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were present at
the Hunt Club races at Cheltenham, but left before
afternoon tea, when Mr. E. A. Brooks (president) and
his wife entertained a number of guests. Lady
Hore-Ruthven was wearing a black cloth coat
trimmed with fur, and a burgundy-toned felt hat.
Mrs. Brooks chose a grey tweed tailored coat with
a fur collar and a black felt hat. Mrs. W. P. A.
Lapthorne, wife of the master, was in a smart
reseda cloth coat and small felt hat to tone.
An exhibition of drawings and etchings of the
Sydney Bridge during construction and other clever
work by Jessie C. A. Traill was opened by Professor
W. K. Hancock at the Institute Galleries. The
sketches made in Central Australia won a lot of
notice.
The Business Girls’ Dance, organised by Misses
Goode and Goyder, was held in the Palais Royal
to raise funds for unemployment relief. A sideline
that caught the popular fancy was an exhibition of
pictures by Horace Trenerry, loaned, with a cocktail
bar included. You paid to see the paintings, and
a drink was thrown in to swell the ranks of art
lovers. Mrs. Lloyd Tolley, with Joan Sandford and
Margaret Ash win assisting, ran a cigarette stall.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were present, also
the Premier and Mrs. 1., L. Hill, the Mayor and
Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) and Mr.
and Mrs. T. E. Barr-Smith. Lady Hore-Ruthven
wore black velvet and pearls.
To raise money for the departing Elder scholar,
Miriam Hyde, Mrs. Harold, Davies (wife of the
Director of the Elder Oonservatorium) organised a
cheery bridge and dance in the Conservatorium Elder
Hall. Tom King’s orchestra provided the music.
The final effort for Miriam was a big bridge party
organised by her old schoolmates at Riverside School.
Mrs. W. F. Harrison, sister of Peter Dawson, and
her husband have left on a trip to Batavia and
Singapore. They will return via- Hongkong and
the Philippines.
Feet tripped merrily at the Bankers’ Ball in the
Palais Royal on. Thursday night. Every bank was
represented. Joy Parsons and her pupils contributed
dance turns and there were some acrobatic acts.
The Alliance Fransaise burst into festivity to
celebrate July 14. The dance was at the Piccadilly
and was quite an imposing affair. Lady Hore-
Ruthven was present, and nine debs, curtseyed to
vice-royalty. Dancing was interspersed with songs.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was in maize georgette and the
Mayoress chose a black chiffon figured in gold. Tom
King’s orchestra contributed the music and impro-
vised, a fox-trot out of the French national anthem.
Westralia whips in:—
Galli-Curci stepped off the express dewy as a
daisy after her five days of travel. Her precious
throat was wound around with a strawberry scarf
and her black coat was braided with rows of Persian
lamb skin. Kittie Gillies, presenting a gorgeous
sheaf of red blooms on behalf of the women music-
lovers. of Perth, made the introductions run smoothly.
Claude Kingston’s aunt, Mrs. Annie Robertson, was
among the welcomers.
For her first recital Galli-Curci was a shimmer
of silver lame and a whirl of tulle falling into a
short train. Ropes of pearls and dangly earrings
displayed the blackness of her fashionably coifed
head and diamonds sparkled upon her lovely slim
fingers. She was generous with her encores. Her
repertoire included a sprinkling of French, a wee
gem in Spanish, and almost as much English as
her beloved Italian.
All the bright young things went to the Hockey
Ball at Guildford. There were about five relays for
supper and a burst of scarlet flowers for decoration.
Mrs. Carew Reid, who rested a finger upon the
helm, was all in sherry-red tonings, with a little
velvet coat to keep her shoulders snug; daughter
Pippin’s early-Victorian style was in black patterned
with pinky flowers; Mrs. Manning’s black georgettes
were embellished with panels of jet; lole Harper
was a flutter of China-blues; Flower Southwood chose
black velvets; Agnes Sanderson w r ore a flowered
frock, mostly blue ; Betty Sewell and Margaret Evans
preferred black laces; puffed petal sleeves were
featured upon Pat Roe’s rose-pink taffetas; May
Dennis was in white with pearls; Pat Sanderson’s
mustard ninon showed a sprinkle of scarlet, and
still another Pat, a young Flower lass, was in pinky
satins; Joyce Wishart wore red- and Edith Barry-
more’s scarlet laces were noticeable.
Minnie Ferguson was wedded to Robert Cecil Jones
in the Ross Memorial Church. Mr. Don Ferguson
handed over his youngest sister in her ivory gown
with its quaint Juliet sleeves. Her Carrickmacross
veil, worn with wee.sprays of orange blossom behind
each ear, flowed into a short train. ’Groom’s sister
Frances attended in pin-tucked delphinium-blues
and a flower under a brim of her Swiss straw hat.
The Misses Dolly and Grace Ferguson arranged the
cake-cutting in the Karrakatta Club.
The old Shenton mansion twinkled a welcome to
the Uni. Engineers and their best girls who came
to make merry under its venerable roof-tree., Students
had rigged up a lighthouse with a winking eye
upon the dais and' a canopy of ribbons overhead..
The James lady gave an eye to the proceedings
wrapped to her pretty hair in a pale blue velvet
cloak, while daughter Judy danced in a wraith of
grey chiffons; water-green laces fashioned Mrs. de
Courcy Clarke’s ensemble; Theone Couch matched
her berry-red laces with a velvet jacket; jewelled
’broideries glimmered upon the white satin worn by
Mrs. Allan Preshaw; Miss G, Williams chose mig-
nonette-greens, and Trixie Mallocli wore ruby-red
velvet.
Another dance of the week was the Y.A.L. shivoo,
with curling flames licking their way through a
whole tree trunk in the entrance hall and dancing
feet in the big white ballroom. The gym. below
stairs was canopied With bunting, arid marigolds
made a golden pathway down the length of the
supper tables. Among those who took the floor
was Mrs. Fred Curran, who matched her brunette
head with black satin; Dulcie Duncan chose an
electric-blue toilette; Gladys Hadley’s shell-pink
confection rustled with frilled godets, while sister
Jean intermingled ivory ninon with lace; Doreen
Sheridan’s gown was of a parchment tint; Dorothy
Stenberg was in buttercup and Roma Mansfield’s
bright green was a calyx for her Titian locks.


Stop Rheumatism
while there’s time
Drive out the pain and danger this modern
way. No need to suffer the torture of rheu-
matism ; stiff, swollen joints; sore, aching
muscles; lumbago; sciatica or backache.
Harrison’s Pills give quick relief, ending the
trouble the surest way. This remedy of a Lon-
don doctor effectively and safely rids the
system of uric acid poisons—the cause of your
suffering. Why go on, day after day, risking
being crippled, when lasting relief is to be
had? Harrison’s Pills strengthen the over-
burdened kidneys, act antiseptically upon the
urinary tract, and eliminate the uric acid
deposits interfering with the proper action of
the joints and muscles. Promptly after com-
mencing to take Harrison’s Pills you will find
your whole health improved—puffiness under
the eyes gone; tired, “worn out” feeling de-
parted ; that weary sense of active life being
over for you replaced by vigorous fitness
Take Harrison’s Pills and regain your youth
without further delay. Available at all good
chemists or stores; 18 Pills for 2/-; 32 Pills,
3/-; 68 Pills, 5/-. Benefit from the first
bottle or money back guaranteed.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ẁ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
_ Public Notice.
In the Matter of the COMPANIES ACTS,
1863 to 1913, and in the Matter of the
PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, in Voluntary
Liquidation, under the Supervision of
the Supreme Court of Queensland.
OTICE is hereby given that a second
dividend of Five Shillings (5/-) in the
£ (making with the previous dividend 10/-
in the £), payable on all claims of creditors
which before the 15th day of August, 1932,
have been admitted to rank, will be dis-
tributed by cheque on the Capital City
Offices of the National Bank in the various
States. These cheques will be posted direct
to creditors from Brisbane on August 31,
1932.
R. H. CUMMING7 Joint
R. B. FORD \ Liquidators.
Queen Street, Brisbane, July 8, 1932.
Deaf n ess
Wilson’s Ear Drums relieve Catarrhal Deafness;
stop Head Noises; make words more distinctly under-
stood ; restore hearing by taking the place of
perforated or destroyed natural drums.
Price, £l/2/- complete. Write for Booklet.
-T. WILSON EAR DRUM CO.,
225 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
1 W M? S 1
PEPPERMINT
ICUREI
For Coughs, Colds, II
and Influenza.
111 l The Unrivalled Remedy |||g
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE and her English Co. sin
MACBETH.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
THURSDAY, JULY 28, 30, AUG. 2, 4 and 6.
HUGO LARSEN & CO. present
THE GREATEST LIVING VIOLINIST,
t SZIGETI I
“TRUE SUCCESSOR TO KREISLER.”
—Adelaide “News.”
At the Piano PRINCE NIKITA MAGALOFF
Plans at Nicholson’s. Prices: 7/6, 6/-, 3/-, plus tax.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait
HER MAJESTY’S: BITTER SWEET.
CRITERION: HAPPY AND GLORIOUS.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Rivoli has proved his quality as a sire in
Queensland, but few of his offspring race
in Sydney, buyers of yearlings preferring to
pay high prices for the progeny of inferior
English-bred thoroughbreds. Two of the
Rivolis nevertheless made their presence
felt at Rosehill on Saturday. Broccoli, by
Rivoli —Broncurry, a very stylisli-looking bay
colt with a beautiful coat, like his sire, Avas
favorite for the Maiden Nursery Handicap,
and though beaten into third place was by
no means disgraced. The big field (20) Avas
not to his advantage, and he will do better
when he has more room in which to gallop.
Roman Spear (6), the winner, is a bay filly
by Spearhead—Royal Romance, owned and
trained by Booth. Exchequer, a golden
chestnut with four white feet, by Shillinglee
—Goldella, was a good second.
Eurythmic’s half-brother Salvador, by
Rivoli —Bob Cherry, redeemed his early re-
putation in the Rosehill Handicap, for which
he went out at 10 to 1. He was so highly
thought of last season by Ike Andrews, Avho
trains Salvador and Broncurry at Warwick
Farm, that he was heavily backed for the
Metropolitan, but he ran disappointingly in
that race and in several others in the spring
and autumn. He was very unruly at the
barrier on Saturday, and it looked as if he
Avould be left ; but Hickey managed to make
him leave smartly enough. He took charge
at the half-mile and was going arvay from
King March (7 to 4) and Cylanta (5 to
Gert ’/“Come on Bert, vaiell never get
HOME AT THIS RWE"
Bert '' 1m scratch man .in this root
HANDICAP "
Gert .*Oh, VNIHA.TS Vouß. handicap?"*
Bert: "'Chilblains'’'.
1) at the finish of 11 furlongs, run in 2min.
21 sec. When in the humor as a th'ree-year-
old, the chestnut showed that he could stay;
and now, no doubt, he will have support for
the Metrop. again—he has the featherweight
of 7st. 2lb.
Gold Digger stamped himself as an Epsom
possibility by his sterling performance in
the Flying Handicap. He got so much the
worst of the start that McShortodds imme-
diately called fives, though he had, previously
offered threes, and not much of that. But
the chestnut began a long run and sustained
it so well under his Bst. 111 b has a
stone less in the Epsom—that at the end
only Erbie (12 to 1) was ahead of him,
and that by a mere half-length; and the
six furlongs were covered in lmin. 14sec.
Questionnaire (8 to 1) was third. Erbie
had shaped poorly at Moorefield and Canter-
bury Park; “missed the jump-out” Avas the
explanation of an exultant supporter at
Rosehill.
W. Kelso’s luck is still out. Ivirna
approached the last obstacle in the Hurdle
Race looking a certainty with a stand-up;
but he took it in a slovenly fashion and
then veered to the outside, enabling Kerlist
to fluke it. And Norct (7 to 1), also from
the Orville stable, was deprived of victory
in the Maiden Handicap in the last stride
—by Counterpart (6 to 1), a bay gelding by
Magpie—Earloona.
The wheel turned for Peter Riddle,
another Randwick trainer who has been un-
fortunate, in the Carlingford Handicap; he
scored with his own horse Celebrate. Another
Magpie, and a good sort, he has 7st. 51b. in
the Epsom. He overhauled Ilavaspot (10 to
1) very fast from the Leger; Port Said (7
to 1) Avas third.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Farm Stakes: Kichaka; next, Ramrod.
Varroville Handicap: Killarney; next,
Orby Anthus.
li'omebush Handicap: Salvador; next,
Dreamdale.
Macquarie Grove Handicap: New King;
next, Sunlit Reef.
At Caulfield last Saturday the way of
the punter was hard indeed. Six of the
eight events went to horses that started at
15 to 1, 20 to 1, 8 to 1, 20 to 1, 20 to 1 and 10
to 1 respectively. McShortodds, true to char-
acter, grumbled at having to pay out over
Induna (2 to 1) and Royal Barb (3 to 1),
but refrained from any show of satisfac-
tion over the other results. Here and there
a fielder would declaim that he “stood the
favorite for a motzer” and won some paltry
sum when it failed. The three 20-to-l
chances that scored paid dividends of £lO
19s. Gd„ £6 4s. and £9 Is. respectively on
the ss. tote. Is there any wonder that Mel-
bourne racing folk —apart from those who
wager big sums and aim at securing the
cream of the market—prefer to operate
through the machine, which handled nearly
£25.000 on Saturday?
Claronga must not be blamed for letting
his supporters down in the Leamington
Hurdle. The son of Claro made the run-
ning up to half a mile from home, -with
assistance from the Maorilander, Captain’s
Gift (who vastly improved on his V.R.C.
Doutta Galla Hurdle form), and then drop-
ped back suddenly ; he had sprained a fet-
lock. Captain’s Gift will, not be at 20 to
1 when he next sports silk. The winner,
Zygon, was ridden by Alick Fullerton, who
landed the Grand National Hurdle on Poly-
gonum. He comes from the Western dis-
trict of Victoria, and is a candidate for the
Australian Hurdle, being weighted at only
9st. 21b.
George Jones is wasting no time in racing
the horses with which he is visiting Mel-
bourne afresh. Rulanut, a Chief Ruler colt
that may achieve Derby laurels or at least
put up a great fight with Kuvera and other
classic rivals, was produced for the first
division of the Lillimur Handicap, and made
a bold showing up to the home turn, where
his condition failed. This event ought to
have gone to the favoi-ite. Gigolo, who fin-
ished only half a head behind the second
horse, after having had an exceedingly bad
passage. Tindall owns the winner, Cheto-
waik. For a considerable time past. Tindall
has been out of luck, and the stable stake
on Chetowaik must have been meagre: he
was one of the 20-to-l lot. Chetowaik is
by the might Manfred from Gay Element.
Jones fancied Actaeon for the second divi-
sion of the Kambrook Trial, and the Hunting
Song gelding was a pronounced favorite when
the barrier rose. Like Rulanut, he was in
need of a run in public. Actaeon remained
in the firing line for the greater part of the
journey, but faded out when the real pinch
came. First place went to Oof Bird, a
shapely little gelding by Magpie from Note,
the Sea Prince mare that Kelso used to
train in Sydney. Thricap who captured
the first division of the Kambrook Trial, was
bred by A. G. Hunter at Seymour. He is by
Thrice (son of The Welkin) from a mare by
George Frederick (son of Carbine). T.
Davies, who won a Newmarket Handicap
with Red Dome and a Grand National with
Pildin, gave 400gns. for Thricap as a year-
ling.
Gigolo’s stable-companion Royal Barb
came to light in the Malvina Welter. Won-
ders have been worked in this Spearhead
gelding by M. T. McGrath. Royal Barb was
rather' delicate in the spring, but has built
up into a robust-looking thoroughbred. He
is a brother to The Dimmer. McGrath won
a Doncaster Handicap for G. L. Scott, and
there is every prospect of his achieving a big
spring success with Royal Barb, who was
strongly fancied for the Cups last year.
Scott is a business associate of C. J. Neun-
hoffer, whose daughter, Mrs. L. R. Buxton,
was represented in the second division of the
Lillimur two-year-old by Dutchie. This
Drake filly firmed to 7 to 4, but the best she
could do was to finish third.
Nauru would have brought home the bacon
in the Godfrey Watson Steeplechase if he
had not fallen at the mile post, when lead-
ing. The winner, Sarocto, belongs to “S. A.
Rawdon,,” and was ridden by the M.L.
jockey Ivan Tucker. He had to withstand
a protest for interference. Induna completed
the hat trick by annexing the Murrumbeena
Handicap in meritorious style. The Adel-
aide stallion is in fine fettle, but will have
difficulty in retaining his present condition
until the spring unless given a let-up. Before
scoring at Caulfield he won twice at the
Grand National meeting.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Boiardo Steeple: Nauru or Dark Fox.
St. Monga Handicap: Lady Pam or
Araunali.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Unable to separate Tom Lurich (14st.
31b.) and Walter Browning (14st. 41b.) after
six hectic rounds, the referee ordered an
extra turn —an innovation for Leichhardt.
Plenty of fighting and kicking was jambed
into this extra gallop, but neither could
score a deciding fall.
* * * sjt
Wrestler Abe Kaplan (said to be only
lost.) Avas too weighty for Dean- Detton
(13st. 31b.) at Sydney" Stadium. Detton’s
flying-tackles and body-press took the first
fall before the match had gone five minutes,
but Kaplan, with rabbit-killers and slams,
liad his man “out” in the sixth. Detton
was being tossed about like a tennis ball
in the seventh when the referee intervened
to crown Kaplan.
Footbrawl
Saturday was another black day for Aus-
tralian Rugby players. At Brisbane, where
the Rugby Union staged its second Test
match between Australia and the AH Blacks,
the visitors simply overwhelmed the opposi-
tion, winning by 21-3, or 4 tries, one con-
verted, a field goal by Pollock and a penalty
goal to a try. At no time during the game
did the home side look dangerous, and the
formidable-sounding back division, of which
so much was expected after its showing-
in the opening Test in Sydney, wilted before
the superlative Maoriland forwards. It is
doubtful if any M.L. forward team of the
past has been so completely on top of the
opposition, and though the M.L. backs, pro-
tected as they were by their formidable van-
guard, had plenty of room to move and rose
to their opportunities, the forwards won. the
match'. When Australia got the ball—and
Bonis was again successful here —they
pushed the Australians over it, and they
broke so fast and tackled so surely that the
Australian backs rarely got a chance to get
into their stride. The home side generally
failed to combine.
* • * •-!: *
The deciding Test between the Australian
Rugby League and Sullivan’s Englishmen
drew a crowd of. 50,000 to Sydney Cricket
Ground. In spite of a good start and a
lead of 9-3 at half-time, the home side went
down with' a flop in the concluding stages,
the tourists winning 18-13, or 4 tries and
3 goals to a try and 5 goals from Weissel.
Though’ the scores accurately indicate the
trend of the game, it must be said that the
Australian tactics in the second half con-
tributed to their defeat. With a good lead,
it was decided to close the game up, and for-
wards were pulled out of the scrum to inten-
sify the “defence.” Naturally what was left
of the pack crumbled before the hefty English
vanguard, and both forwards and backs
then poured through the scattered and help-
less opposition. Another item in the Eng-
lishmen’s favor was that they were definitely
faster all round than our own men. This
was particularly noticeable in the back divi-
sion, which, when it wasn’t running away
from the Australians, was, running them
down from behind. Smith, the English winger,
exhibited speed which brought him three of
his side’s tries. Of the other backs Sullivan
was great in defence at full, though he
was off his goal-kicking early in the game,
Brogden, at centre and later at five-eighth,
was an inspiration to the winners, and Bryn
Evans, behind the scrum, was first class.
The big and heavy pack worked like Trojans
from start to finish. Weissel, though limping
badly at the close, was easily the best of
the home men. Pearce and Laws defended
stoutly, but both were too slow for the
opposition. The forwards showed well in
the first half before their formation was
broken up, O’Connor being probably the best
of them.
In Vic. League competition, South Melb.
hasn’t beaten Collingwood since ’24, and as
none had been able to lower the Red-and-
white colors this season, it was felt the
meeting of the two on Saturday would be
notable, wherefore, in spite of a bitter
northerly gale, some 40,000 blew into the
Albert Park ground. The game Avas fast
and vigorous, with marking and kicking
spoilt by the wind. In the end Cqllingwood’s
cool position play and straighter shooting
gave it victory. South kept a trifle ahead
throughout, but the Red-and-white habit of
taking risky shots yielded only points where
Collingwood played cannily and got goals.
Last quarter started with South 2 points
ahead. It snapped two more; then Mag-
pie forwards collaborated and by clever
shepherding gathered in a goal and 2
behinds. South, swarmed down, striving
vimfully for the goal that would save the
game, but again hasty shooting gave it
only a point, and the bell rang; with Colling-
Avood, 7 goals 8 behinds (50) ; South. 5
goals 17 behinds (47). Regan, Beveridge,
Carter and Baker shone for the winners;
Hillis, R. Thomas and Pratt for the losers.
At Geelong Carlton found the open play of
the. locals hard _ to cope with and only a
series of determined drives in the last term
gave the Blues a win : Carlton, 10 goals 23
behind ; Geelong, S goals 20 behinds. The
other games settled the “final” chances of
all but these four teams and Richmond.
(.Continued on neset page.)


“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
> who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication,- and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
• the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
BUSINESS IS
BOOMING!
BE IN THE BOOM
Note the Perth
Progressive gross circulation figures
from February 7 to June 12, 1932:
February 7 • • 28,200
„ 21 30,600
March 6 31,400
„ 20 32,100
April 3 34,250
„ 17 35,590
May 1 37,400
„ 15 41,250
„ 29 42,400
June 12 .... 47,000
The “Sunday Times” is the most
widely-discussed paper in the West.
As an advertising medium for results
it stands alone. Why not try it? i
The National Sporting
Weekly,
the n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to —
A ustralian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This Certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: It looks, at last, as if the
Victorian Football League has repented of
its sins in the past and taken its ’davy
neve? again to poach promising players from
tlie other States. The League executive has
agreed that in future no young man from
another State will be allowed to play football
in Victox-ia until he has completed 12 months’
residence in the Cabbage Garden. The rule
has to. be confirmed by the Australian Coun-
cil, but there is little doubt of the attitude
of all the other States —every one of them
a sufferer in tlie past from the Victorian
depredations in its football roosts. An
additional proviso permits genuine Victorian
players who have gone to other States and
wish to play again, in Victoria to do so
after three months’ residence only.
“Tab”: Following on that Australian
captaincy record (B. 13/7/’32), Tom Law-
ton; of Queensland, put up another , when
his State met the All. Blacks in Brisbane
the other day by bringing his total of
points scored for the Maroons to 72. For
30 years the record had been held by the
late.S. A. Spragg, with 70. In Spragg’s case,
tlie points were piled up in three years of
play, but his play was continuous in the
three seasons. Lawton’s period covers the
years 1919-32, but he was out of Union
football when the game collapsed in 1920.
After Lis return from Oxford, where he
spent some years as a Rhodes scholar, Law-
ton’s appearances for his State have been
intermittent. Last season, for instance, he
dropped out of the game.
* !|: * *
Claude Cochrane, who heard the full-time
wh’istic blow in Sydney the other day, at
54, was some years ago a prominent figure
in Rugby Union football and cricket. He
was a delegate, for Manly to the N.S.W.
Cricket Association for the past 21 years,
and was elected chairman of the grade com-
mittee in 1919, a position he held at tlie
time of his death. He will best be recalled
by sportsmen as a Rugby Union referee
from 1904-10. one of his big jobs being the
handling of tlie game between the 1907 All
Blacks and Australia in Brisbane, lie had
been a civil servant for 40 years.
* *
“Nobby’s”: The English footballers on
their way back from Queensland tackled a
Newcastle team at the Coal City and won
22-15. The tourists, with! the week-end Test
in Sydney in view, took no risks, being con-
tent to keep their collective nose in front.
The feature of tlie match was the ringing of
the full-time hell a quarter of an hour too
early. The crowd rushed the ground, and
prising it off again took some time before
the g-ame could be resumed.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : The Australian lawn tennis
heads have officially announced that four
American men, Vines, Allison, Van Ityn and
Gledhill, will arrive in Sydney early in
November. Accompanying them on their
Australian tour will be the invincible Helen
Wills, so our cup of happiness should be full
to overflowing. The bitter drop in the afore-
said cup is that we have no one on this side
of the line capable of giving that crowd a
decent game. Crawford and Hopman will,
no doubt, bo trotted out again to make a
Rushcutter Bay and Kooyong holiday, but
it is doubtful whether the tennis public will
go on paying to see them massacred.
One comfort is that the Frenchmen Cochet
and Merlin will be here in January, and as
the Americans will remain until February
we may have a chance of seeing some genuine
tennis when the two visiting contingents
clash in the Australian championships.
* * * *
“‘Rev. Knucklebone”: Empire tennis got a
nasty kick last week in Europe, where both
England and Australia flopped dismally. In
Berlin, playing in the Davis Cup semi-final.
Austin, Perry and co. made an abject show-
ing against the Germans, who will now
meet Italy in the final of the European, zone.
This is the first time that either country has
got as far. Italy’s win over the powerful
Japanese side was as unlikely on paper as
that of Germany over the much-fancied Eng-
lishmen. Playing France in Paris, the Aus-
tralians were beaten by eight matches to
five. Crawford certainly managed to beat a
very tired or indifferent Lacoste, while he
and Hopman prevailed in a doubles game
over Bernard and Boussous, the. French
second string. Sproule once more showed
how darned lucky he was to be selected as
an Australian representative.
* * *
“Cut Shot”: The N.S.W. tennis bosses
have got in early with arrangements for
receiving the American and French tennis-
players. A special committee of seven has
been appointed to make arrangements for
the visits, but though Mrs. Wills-Moody will
be one of the American team,_ -no woman
tennis sultana has been appointed *to it.
They will figure in Sydney—the Americans
at least —in a match against N.S.W., the
N.S.W. championships, and one Test matca
against Australia. Special matches will be
staged for Mrs. Wills-Moody and . for the
Frenchmen when they land hereabout.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Kingston Heath”: The star turn of the
match between the Royal Melbourne and the
Victoria clubs on the latter's course was the
clash between Whitton and Williams. The
former, winner of Australian and State cham-
pionships galore, both amateur and open, per-
sonified skilled experience. Williams, still
under 20, is the holder of the Australian
amateur title. Williams consistently out-
drove the older man, but the cool and im-
perturbable Whitton carried on at his usual
even rate to win one up, after a hooked
drive had spoiled Williams’s chance of halv-
ing at the 18th. Victoria won five matches
to two.
$ * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australian golf history
was added to in Adelaide last week when
Ackland-Hormau. an 18-year-old lad from
Scotch College, knocked out the holder of
the title, Legh Winser, in the quarter finals
of the State amateur championship. The
BoBBY BL^L
HERO AND
winner of his aBH
■rtilßD TigHT jHHM
wrm ’I
\ P«Y 1
) _ HERE
/ A ND I I
AJLiPIJeR "PLuvius 1
/'{the TffliiviNg Ttanen) 1
WHO K.o's Hundreds 1
/oF MS nf.lNSTousH’S ■
pMSPZtTivE CwfTbMEA*
WHY NC ST allow
"fOUNQ STR/DLiNg
To OO up IN HIS
AEROPLANE "'3'
AND Deal with this TnTruJ>bi^'
FACT AND FANCY AT THE SYDNEY STADIUM.
lad’s performance is remarkable since it* is
the first time Legh Winser lias missed a ,final
of any South Australian championship in
which he has played since 1921. Winser is
still one of the most accomplished of . the
older generation of golfers.* As long ago as
1921 lie won the Australian amateur ‘cham-
pionship on the Sandringham course ' near
Melbourne.
* * ❖ *
“Miaow”: The. annual golf matches
between N.S.W. country and metropolitan
women players were held in Sydney last week.
The country singles championship was played
at Killara, and resulted in a win for a
Lithgow lass, Muriel Phillips, a member of
a well-known country golfing family, and a
successful player in many important country
events. She beat Molly Leish, of Moss Vale,
by 4 and 2. The teams matches between city
and country saw the girls from tlie great
open spaces outed by eight matches .to 1 three.
The affair was staged on Royal Sydney's
links at Rose Bay. City also prevailed in
the second division, taking four matches to.
three.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Two important overseas golf
events came to. a finish* last week. The
Canadian open championship, which always
draws a big entry of the American stars,
was played off at Ottawa and won by the
'American professional Gary Cooper, with
a'score of 290.' Walter Hagen, 295, and Joe
Kirkwood. 304, were also in the picture. The
French'women’s championship, played at Lo
Touquet, proved a good thing for the British
contingent. In the final were Diana Fisliwick,
ex-British champion, who was outed in the
last British event by our own Susie Tol-
hurst. and another ex-holder of the title,
Molly Gourlav. The Fishwick won, 4 and 2.
* ‘ * *
“Carnoustie”: According to an English
golf journal, De Forest, winner of the last
British amateur championship, had to.be
forced into playing the game. He is the
son; of Baron de Forest, millionaire, poli-
tician and racing man. The old man has
been telling an interviewer that, as his son
had proved something of a dud at business,
he had insisted on his taking up golf
seriously. Poppa gave it as his opinion
that even the pursuit of golf was better than
hanging round London chasing cocktails and
other metropolitan attractions. So that is
why De F. junior not only plods -round the
British and Continental courses, in all the
big events, hut is periodically shipped to
America to fill in his spare time golfing there.
Under the circumstances I wouldn’t care to
venture saxpehce that the youth does not
hate the sight of a golf-bag as much as my
countrymen loathe prohibition.
Gar and Cycle
“Disc Clutch’’: ’America is- the hive of
freak performances. One of tlie latest in
the - motor-car line has been a drive in reverse
from N’Yark to Los Angeles and back.' The
long, run took 42 days and was* done, as pub-
licity for a- well-known lubricant oil. The
driver, J. T. Hargis, averaged aboutl2 miles
per hour, which would work out/ in the car
lie drove at some 50-odd on forward gears.
It should be recalled that radiator ventila-
tion and cooling whs eliminated, which makes
the feat all the more creditable, to driver
and car.
•*V . W *
“Ohm” : Having successfully applied wire-
less control to aeroplanes; and ships, experi-
menters on those lines hqvc turned then-
attention to cars. In America recently a
very successful demonstration of car control
by wireless was given. The apparatus com-
prised a wireless-operating set on the run-
ning-board of the car and a transmitting set
some distance away ; a telegraph key on the
transmitting set gave the “orders.”. The
demonstration included starting, stopping and
steering the car,'as well as turning the lighvs
off and on and blowing the horn. All that
seems necessary to complete the gadget is a
phonographic attachment by which the car
could impugn the pedigree of any pedestrian
not getting out of its way quickly enough,
just as human drivers do.
“Toowong”: The Metropolitan Motor
Cycle Club’s annual 12-liour reliability run,
one of Queensland’s principal motor-cycle
events, proved a washout in all the accepted
senses of the expression. Commencing at
midnight in cyclonic weather over fearful
country roads, competitors had a bad time
before they crawled home iiext. day. The
road was over the Dividing Range, from
Brisbane to Warwick on the Darling Downs
and back again. On the Downs the mud and
puddles were frozen and the going was very
rough. Only two of the six starters finished,
and they are still wondering how they man-
aged it.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: After much haggling with
the Marylebone club, the Board of Control
has amended the original itinerary of the
English Eleven in Australia This was
done to enable the visitors to depart for
Maofilahd by the middle of March. The
tour opens against Westralia at Perth on
October 21. Playing their way to Victoria
the Britons will meet an Australian XT
at Melbourne to make up for. tin l Test
Yarraville loses this season. The first
Test will be in Sydney, beginning December
2, and Melbourne sets
tilt' second for Decombei
30, after the tourists
have visited Tassy.
Adelaide sees the third
a fortnight later, and
Brisbane the fourth,
starting February 10.
The fifth will be staged
in Sydney on February
23. Return matches
with Victoria and South
Australia will complete
a programme of 22
games, including coun-
try matches in N.5.W.;,.
Victoria and Queens-
land.
:S -f
“Somerset”: For a
curious instance of how
a cricketer may break a
spell of bad luck, and
what his recovery may
mean to his side, con-
sider the case of A. J.
Ratcliffe, the Cambridge
hero of two matches
against Oxford. Rat-
cliffc got his blue in
1030. Last year he
batted so badly that, a
few weeks before the
’Varsity match, be was
omitted from the team.
Then he happened to
score a century for his
second-class county
(Denbighshire), and it
earned him another
chance for Cambridge in
a side that was weak-
'ened by the claims of
“schools.” lie made 70,
and the captain decided
to take him to Lord’s,
but as twelfth man only.
A “blue” was crocked
at the last moment; the
emergency man took his place' and Lit up
200-odd —the highest score then recorded in
the whole, series of- contests, though it was
topped next day by the Nawab of Pataudi
for the opposition. Last week Ratcliffe made
another century for Cambridge against
Oxford.
* * * *
“New Farm”: Listeners-in who tune on
to Brisbane next Saturday may be for-
given -if they get tlie impression they have
struck had static conditions. On that day
tlie bowlers of the old Booroodabin club
will celebrate the jubilee of the intro-
duction of tlie riotous game to Queensland,
and as tlie Queensland licensing laws
permit the. consumption of bowlers’ refresh-
ments until long after Sydney closing time,
anything may, happen. The guest, of the.
evening will be W. M. Park,' 96 years _oi
age and accounted Australia’s oldest living
howler. The Brisbane club, first of its
kind in Bananaland, began its career in
1878, to be exact. The . original members
list includes many names afterwards
famous in Queensland, among, them that of
Thomas Mcllwraitli, by many accounted
greatest of the State’s Premiers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man (25), Vic., wants position as gardener on
(viverina station,. exp. culture vegetables, fruit and
flowers.—92l.
To get into touch with anyone having a recent
knowledge of Miri, in British Sarawak, Borneo.—9o9.
To buy “The Clock Without Hands,” by Kauff-
man.—BB 6.
To buy Taine’s History of the French Revolution.
--969.
To buy books on making furniture.—B37.
To exchange Bulletin and “Sydney Mail” for
other weekly papers.—B43.
Copy of “The Digit of the M00n.”—894.
Words of verse, “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.” —895.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.”-—930.
Information Sought.
What is the approved method of submit-
ting a design to be reproduced in color, such
as a magazine cover?— 9l7.
Depends upon the process of reproduction
and the number of colors employed in print-
ing. In earlier times, when color-printing
had many limitations, it was usual to make
an ordinary wash or line drawing in black
and white and then fix a mask of tracing-
paper over it, by gluing the paper along the
top edge of the drawing and making the
colored drawing on the mask, which falls
over the drawing in black and white and
acts as an indicator. Nowadays any method
of painting can be reproduced almost exactly
in color by the photographic processes.
Tlw N.S.W. Year Book for 1929-30 states
that “ since the beginning of the year 1918
there have been four executions —two in
1924 and two in 1927.” Who were the per-
sons executed in those years? —663.
According to the Comptroller-General of
N.S.W. Prisons, since the beginning of 1918
there have been only two executions in
N.S.W. —those of Edward Williams on April
29, 1924, and William Gordon Simpson on
Sept. 10, 1924. There were n 0 executions
in 1927. . ,
How can I charge a 2-volt wireless
accumulator and a 6-volt car battery at the
same time off a car generator? —s7B.
Connect the positive pole of the accumu-
lator to the positive pole of the car battery,
and connect the two negative poles together
in a like manner through a 2-oh’m resistance
capable of carrying two 'amperes. Under
these circumstances the wireless battery will
charge at about 2 amps, rate continuously,
but the car battery will only charge when
the car is running at a sufficiently great
speed to close tho cut-out. The wireless bat-
tery must therefore only be placed on
charge before going on a long run, and must
be disconnected as soon as the car is stopped,
unless the car battery is well charged.
(1) What are the qualifications to secure
a position, as a lighthouse-keeper in N.S.W.?
(2) Salary? (3) Where to apply? (4)
Any vacancies ? —698.
(1) Must' be good at boat work and sig-
nalling. (2) £203 to £2lB p.a. (3) Deputy-
Director of Navigation and Lighthouses.
(4) None, nor are there likely to be any.
How much of the cost of Sydney Harbor
Bridge, was paid by those specially taxed for
it, and how much came from consolidated
revenue? —171.
Total net expenditure of £9,673,068 to May
31 was met from the bridge rate account,
£1,617,480, and general loan account,
£8,055,588 16s. 6d. Tolls, plus proportion
of fares due in respect of train and tram
traffic, will, it is expected, provide interest
on capital. The capital cost also will be
appreciably reduced by the disposal of the
residues Of resumed lands when the market
is favorable for realisation.
How was the distance across Sydney
Harbor measured for the bridge?— l4B.
The calculation was made by triangulat-
ing from two base lines set out on the Sydney
side. The base lines were measured with an
invar tape and the triangulation was per-
formed with an eight-inch theodolite.
(1) What is the nature of the oxide used
in the purification of illuminating gas, and,
whence is it derived? (2) Cost of oxide?
—425.
(1) It consists principally of hydrated
oxide of iron. The bulk of that used in
Sydney comes from Port Macquarie dis-
trict. It is easily dug out, and is used with-
out any further preparation. (2) About £2
per ton delivered in Sydney.
Who wrote the words of “Rule Britan-
nia” ? —707.
The poem first appeared in the libretto of
the masque “Alfred,” written by James
Thomson and Mallet, and is ascribed by most
authorities to Thomson, best known as the
author of “The Seasons.”
(1) What amount has Germany borrowed
from outside singe the arrangements for pay-
ing reparations were completed? (2) From
whom? (3) How much lias been paid by
Germany on account of war indebtedness?
—6BB. '
(1) To the end of August last, approxi-
mately £1,150,000.000. (2) The U.S.A. pro-
vided 39.1 p.c.; Holland, 15.1 p.c.; Britain,
14.7 p.c.; Switzerland, 14.6 p.c.; France, 5.2
p.c.; other countries, 11.3 p.c. (3) Up to
August 31, 1924, £2,058,000,000; since that
date under the Dawes and Young plans
(including the costs of the army occupation)
£543,100,000.
(1) How are fish smoked? (2) How long
will smoked fish keep? (3) The only woods
available to me are pandanus, pisonia and
casuarina, with some drifUvood, Which is
best?— s97.
(1) They are gutted, split down back or
belly, and, if the flesh is thick, slashed as
well to allow the salt or brine to enter. In
many cases the backbone is partly removed.
The fish are then placed in brine or packed
in dry salt, sufficient to preserve the. flesh.
This is better done under cover. Period of
curing depends on climatic conditions and
strength of cure required. After curing,
fish are washed and allowed to drain. They
are then placed in a smokehouse and smoked
in cool smoke. Usually at least 12 hours’
treatment is necessary. (2) Depends oil
thoroughness of cure and conditions in
which they are kept. (3) About equal. The
timber should be in chips, shavings or saw-
dust, and bark is also useful. For further
information consult “Marine Products of
Commerce,” by D. K. Tressler.
(1) In a superhet., why does a) high i.f.
frequency amplifier give better selectivity
than a low i.f. amplifier? (2) Why do
some sets use intermediate frequencies as
low as 30 k.c.f (3) Most suitable fre-
quency for the broadcast band? —725. ’
(1) Using a 30-k.c. amplifier with’ the
oscillator set at, say, 1530 k.c. (196
metres), it would be quite possible to receive
stations transmitting on either 1500 k.c.
(200 metres) or 1560 k.c. (192 metres)
unless the detector were sufficiently selective
to reject the undesired station. Using an
intermediate frequency of 175 k.c., with the
oscillator at 1675 k.c., a beat note will be
produced with a signal frequency of 1500
k.c. (200 metres) and a second at 1850
k.c. (162 metres). The selectivity of the
detector circuit will be sufficiently high to
reject the undesired station in this case.
(2) Greater stability is obtained on the lower
frequency. (3) As low as 175 k.c. when
using screen grid valves and a carefully
designed and screened amplifier.
(1) How rhany rounds can be fired from
a Vickers machine-gun before the water in
the jacket boils. (2) How long will the gun
continue to work after the water boils? —
738.
(1) Roughly about 600 rounds, fired with
maximum rapidity. (2) Up to 2000 rounds.
I propose covering a chip court ivith pitch
or bitumastic material. What type of pitch
should be used and how should it be laid?
—6lo.
A chip court may be made of materials
ranging from sandy loam to stony gravel.
In some cases a bituminous surface can be
obtained by merely surfacing the existing
court with a fluid bituminous binder or an
emulsion, but in most cases it is desirable
to lay a pre-mixed macadam to a thickness
of lin. to ljin. This would consist of stone
chips, sand and a fluid bituminous binder,
mixed together, spread With a rake and
rolled. Such work calls for gear which is
not usually available, and it is advisable to
give the job to a contractor who has the
plant.
Does the Navigation Act alloio a person,
by favor of thd captain of an overseas
steamer, registered in the U.K. on foreign
articles and trading from a foreign port to
Australia, to sign on in an Australian port
as a supernumerary officer at a shilling a
month and proceed to another Australian
port and sign of the articles there? —9833.
No. It is a question of fact, whether a
person is, or is not, a member ‘of the crew.
The mere signing of the ship’s articles would
not bring, him within that category.
“Seaman” is defined as a person “employed
or engaged” in any capacity on board the
ship. Unless, therefore, a person is actually
employed or engaged on ship’s business
while on the ship, he could not be regarded
as a. member of the crew. No permit or
permission given by the department would
have any effect in setting aside this legal
aspect.
Particulars of the short-story competition
being conducted by the Laura Bogue Luff-
man Memorial Fund Committee? —B4s.
The prize (£10) is offered for the best
original short story with an Australasian set-
ting, between 3000 and 5000 words. Leave
a margin, write on one side of the paper
only, type or write clearly. Sign the MS. with
a. pen-name and enclose a sealed envelope
with pen-name, real name and address. MSS.
will be returned if stamps for postage are en-
closed. There is an entrance fee of Is. Entries
close on Sept. 1, 1932, and should be sent
to Mrs. Howard Beale, Fairacre, Wahroonga-
avenue, Wahroonga (N.S.W.). The decision
of the judges will be published in December
and the winning story will, if suitable, be
published in “The Australasian.” The
judges are Professor J. Le Gay Brereton, S.
Elliott Napier, Mrs. William Moore and Mrs.
Vance Palmer. ,
What sort of fish are hair-tails? —Bso.
Long, ribbon-shaped fish of the genus
Tnchiurus, silvery in color and with the
body drawn out into a long-pointed tail. The
. Wales species is commonly confused
with the true ribbon fish and the frost fish,
but is quite distinct from both.
How to cultivate perennial phlox? —472.
The plants should be put out in the
borders while dormant in the winter or early
spring. All they require is a well-manured
deep soil and an open situation. Plant two
to three feet apart, mulch during the hot
season, and keep well watered. The plants
are inclined to produce suckers. These
should be cut out.
Objects and activities of the Pan-Pacific
Union? What countries belong to it? —s7o.
Among its activities are scientific research
of the Pacific Ocean and the organisation
of congresses dealing with the press, com-
merce, education, food conservation, medi-
cine and surgery. Congresses are also held
to discuss sugar technology and fisheries.
The Union’s headquarters are at Honolulu.
It publishes the “Mid Pacific Magazine,” and
issues free a monthly bulletin, besides jour-
nals of the Pan-Pacific Research Institute,
of which it is the parent.
(1) What wages are paid to sheep-station
employees in M.L.? (2) Has a newcomer
a chance of picking up relief work there.
I am at present in Australia. —685.
(1) Ruling rates are approximately 20s.
per week and keep. The Unemploy-
ment Board has a scheme by which any
additional men are paid 10s. per week
by the board and are given their keep by
the employer. (2) No. Twelve months
residence is required.
(1) How do the people of Lord llowc
Island receive payment for their produce.
12) Is the income equally divided amongst
the inhabitants? —493.
(1) The palm seed grown is the sole pro-
perty of the Board of Control and is col-
lected as required for sale. From the
proceeds all expenses are met and subse-
quently the islanders concerned receive
monthly payments in such proportions as
will give them a comfortable living. (2)
Payments vary according to family respon-
sibilities.
(1) Population of each of the Australian
States? (2) Average number of murders
per year and average number of convictions
for murder per year in each State? (3)
Number of executions for murder per year
in each State? —542.
' (1) At Dec. 31, 1931: N.S.W., 2,517,758;
Vic., 1,801,294; Queensland, 963,711; S.
Aus., 584,968; W.A., 421,609; Tas., 223,390;
N.T., 4458; Fed. Cap. Territory, 8732. (2)
Convictions, 20 years, 1911 to 1930, were
as follows: N.S.W., 178; Vic., 91; Queens-
land, 133; S. Aus., 35; W.A., 64; Tas., 18;
N.T., 11; total for Australia, 530. Infor-
mation regarding the number of murders is
not available. The averages per year for
the period in the larger States were approxi-
mately : N.S.W., 9; Vic., 5; Queensland, 7;
S. Aus., 2: W.A., 3; Tas. and N.T., under
1. (3) Total, 1911 to 1930, was as
follows: N.S.W., 9; Vic.. 7; Queensland,
2; S. Aus., 5; W.A., 12; Tas., 3; total for
Australia, 38. Capital punishment was
abolished in Queensland under the Criminal
Code Amendment Act of 1922.
(1) What was the cost of compulsory
military training in Australia, during the last
year it was in operation? (2) Expenditure
on defence in relation to other Common-
wealth expenditure during last year com-
pulsory military training was in operation?
(3) Total number of the Australian Military
Forces during same period? —B2.
(1) Total military expenditure was
£1,465.718. Actual cost of training not
available. (2) 1.5 p.c. (3) Permanent
Forces. 1684: Citizen Forces, 47,564; Senior
Cadets, 15,720.
A cheap lacquer for food {fruit) tins? I
intend dipping. —Blo.
For external lacquering, take J pint
alcohol, add loz. gum shellac, i'oz. turmeric
and ljoz. red sanders. Set the vessel in a
warm place and shake frequently for half a
day. Then strain off the liquor, rinse the
bottle and return the liquor, corking, tightly
until used. For information about internal
lacquering, write Under-Sec., Department of
Agriculture, Sydney. Internal dressings
must conform to regulations.
(1) How is the cinchona-tree grown? (2)
Where are plants obtainable? (3) How is
quinine extracted? (4) Books on the sub-
ject ?'- —619.
(1) The tree flourishes best at an eleva-
tion of about 5000 ft. with a mean annual
temperature of about 60deg. Fahr., ranging
from 46deg. to 75deg., and with an annual
rainfall of 120 to 150 inches. The plant
requires plenty of moisture and a well-
drained situation. (2) Seeds and plants
from the Chandra Nursery, P.O. Rhenock,
Sikkim, Bengal, India. (3) Too complex for
brief description. (4) Annual report of the
Government Cinchona Plantations, Bengal,
1929-30; article on the industry in Java, by
W. N. Sands, in the “Tropical Agriculturist”
(Ceylon), Dec., 1922; report by the Imperial
Institute on cinchona grown in India, St.
Helena, East Africa and the Cameroons,
1922; article on cinchona-growing in the
Empire, by Dr. J. M. Cowan, in “Empire
Forestry Journal,” Vol. 8, No. 1, 1929;
lecture by Dr. M. Kerbosch, in the “Tropical
Agriculturist” (Ceylon), Vol. 77.
Recipe for an aquarium cement? —67l.
An aquarium cement that does not
set rock-hard may be composed of whit-
ing, -Jib. plaster of paris, Jib. litharge, Jib.
fine sand and loz. of resin, worked to the
consistency of ordinary putty with varnish,
gold size or boiled oil. Or take equal parts by
weight of litharge and zinc white, with or
without the addition of a little whiting.
In playing poker must a player who opens
a jackpot, and bets on Ms hand, show his
whole hand if not “seen” by any other
player, or will the openers suffice? —795.
Openers only need be disclosed. Not hav-
ing paid for the information, the other play-
ers are not entitled to know the full basis
of the bet.
(1) Value of Cape 4d. triangular stamps?
(2) Of early N.S.W. pictorial stamps? (3)
Of early German States stamps? (4) Where
can, I sell them?— B76.
(1) On deep blue paper, 255.; on bluish
paper, 225. 6d.; on white paper, 155.; wood-
block issue, £2O to £75; De La Rue print-
ings, 17s. 6d. to 655. (2) Sydney views
issued in 1850 are catalogued at from £4
to £35 used. The 1888 Centennial issue is
common and except for the ss. and £1 is
not worth much. (3) Impossible to say;
these stamps are not very popular in Aus-
tralia. (4) Write to C. F. Lascron, 19
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
I am a garage proprietor. Can I protect
myself by posting up a notice: “Every care
taken, but no responsibility in case of fire”?
—856.
Such a notice could not protect you from
an action for damage done by a fire arising
out of any act of negligence by yourself or
your servants, but in the case of a purely
accidental fire you would not be liable.
Does Anybody Know?
565. —Mix 101 b. lime, 51b. salt and 2Jlb.
alum in water to the consistency of ordinary
whitewash. Apply two coatings to the roof.
This paint will last a long time, and. is con-
sidered to reduce the inside temperature of
the dwelling 15 degrees in hot weather.
—“Ms.”
Brief Answers.
F.N.T.: “The facts are as follow” is cor-
rect.... H.J.D.: The heading is right in so far as
that there may be a number of “best points.”
“Milking bull” is zoologically absurd, but in a
journal devoted to dairying the term, being well
understood, may be regarded as a permissible tech-
nicality. ... .L.G.: The correct sound of the “a” in
such words as “dance,” plant” and “chance” is not
exactly definable in words. Most authorities agree
that it should be somewhere between the broad
Italian “a” as in “parse” and the short “a” in
cash... .E. 8.: (1) Act under which Board is con-
stituted is the Primary Products Act 1927-31. A
copy can be obtained from N.S.W. Govt. Printer,
Sydney. (2) You can buy honey from a beekeeper
who has permission to sell privately, but must pay
the board’s prices. (3) .No beekeepers are allowed
to sell honey within a radius of 20 miles of the
G.P.0., Sydney. Penalty, £lOO, seller and pur-
chaser. .. .0.J.: (1) Hopfs have been working in
Klingenthal, Saxony, for nearly 200 years. Many
of their violins are branded. (2) When restored
for modern requirements, value from £lO to
£3O, according to tone and workmanship. (3)
W. E. Dolphin, 363 Bourke-street, Melbourne, or
A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney, could under-
take repairs... .A.A.: (1) Interest on converted
sto6k is not subject to the special tax of 10 per
cent, on property income; it is subject to Federal
income tax at the rate prevailing at July 31, 1930.
(2) It is not subject to State tax. Can’t
prophesy about the future J.P.F.: (1) From £26
to £2B. (2) New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., 67 York-
street; Bulolo Gold ' Dredging, Ltd., and Placer
Development, Ltd., both Wingello House, Angel-
place—all Sydney; Day-Dawn New Guinea, Ltd.,
Edie Creek, New Guinea... .W. 0.: The question as
to where the future railway bridge will cross Middle
Harbor, Sydney, has not been definitely settled....
P.P.: Write Lecturer-in-Charge, Tanning School,
Bourke-street, Waterloo... .W. 8.: (1) Yes, but it
will not be very efficient and the engine will not
deliver its rated h.p. (2) About two sq. ft. (3)
“Gas Engines and Gas Producers,” by Marks, 205.,
Angus and Robertson.... M.M.8.: (1) Dissolve 21b.
of washing soda and 2oz. caustic soda in four gallons
of hot water and apply when warm with a spray
or brush at an interval of 10 days. (2) Vina
angustifolia (a form of the common vetch), which
should be removed with a pronged weed-remover.
Burn all dug-out plants to get rid of seed E.F.:
Such skins are not greatly esteemed in Australia;
have no notion what you jmlu get for it. Lyster
Ormsby and Co., 233 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
might give you some idea. With regard to mounting,
the firm you mention has practically a monopoly of
this work... .L. 0.: (1) Cassell’s “German-English
and English-German Dictionary” (12s. 6d.). (2)
Otto’s “Elementary German Grammar” (ss. 7d.)
and “Practical German Grammar” (6s. 7d.). (3)
Cassell’s “English-French and French-English Dic-
tionary” (12s. 6d.).. .8.M.L.D.: Dalbiac'e “Dictionary
of Quotations” (4s. 3d.), Douglas’s “Forty Thousand
Quotations” (355.) and Bartlett’s “Familiar Quota-
tions” (10s.), Angus and Robertson.. . .R.J.N.: Can.
see no objection to calling for applications in anti-
cipation of a future vacancy. The sexton, if appa-
rently paid from month to month, would be entitled
to a month’s notice or payment of a month’s salary
in lieu of it... .H.F.M.: Can’t answer without full
details of income... .T.K.: Bennett and Wood say
there is no bicycle coming under that heading. ...
A.8.C.: (1) Get in touch with Butler Bros.
(Aust.), Creek-street, Brisbane. (2) Lining should
be dry and free from grease; sides of friction band
should be oiled occasionally with castor oil. Standard
factory setting is to tighten the wing nut, so that
second groove is in line with level of spring housing.
No lubrication of friction surface is necessary.
Should new linings be required, Butler Bros, could
arrange for supply... .J.F.D.: (1) Probably Grafton
City Council could advise you. (2) Bawden bridge
over the Orara, on State Highway No. 12, Grafton
to Glen Innes, was built in 1873. (3) Nymboida
(or Nymboy) bridge over the Nymboida, same high-
way, was built in 1878, but portion of the existing
structure was added in 1898.... V.C.: It would be
injudicious for C to take any such action, A having
sold the device to B and received part payment.
Before doing anything C should consult a solicitor.
. ...P.C.: (1) No; liquidator must not make any
arrangement with one creditor calculated to pre-
judice others. Until all outstanding debts have
been collected so far as in law that may be possible,
liquidation cannot be finalised. (2) Crown has
priority for its debts over all other creditors;
therefore taxation and telephone charges must be
paid before rent and wages... .R.C.: If a charge is
imposed it becomes payable from date fixed, but
cannot be made retrospective. When date is notified
to you, option is given either of withdrawing wool
from store or of paying storage. Reasonable time
should be allowed for withdrawal or transfer....
T.M.: Emily Matilda Heron was the second daughter
of Sir W. M. Manning, was born in N.S.W. in 1845,
and at an early age began to write Verse, also
contributing miscellaneous articles over the pen-
name “Australie.” In 1873 she married Henry
Heron, a solicitor, and in 1877 published in London
her one volume of verse, “The Balance of Pain.”
She died in Sydney on August 25, 1890... ,L.F.:
Minimine means clear country; Woonona, place for
young wallabies; Collymongle, very long lagoon;
and Barrabarroo, very large stones... .W.J.H.: Fox
Movietone News, 43 Missenden-road, Oamperdown,
and Cinesound Review, Ebley-street, Waverley—both
Sydney... .D.W.8.: Place fill the facts before the
Taxation Department, Warwick Buildings, Hamilton-
street, Sydney W.G.8.: Hall’s “The Soil,” Ilil-
gard’s “Soils,” Widstoe’s “Dry Farming,’’ King’s
“Irrigation and Drainage” and “The Queensland
Agricultural Journal”....D.A.; (1), (2) and (3)
No. (4) Automatic signalling is universal over all
the S.A. suburban railway lines and a considerable
portion of the main country lines are also so
equipped. Automatic signalling is continuous between
Tailem Bend and Hamley Bridge, a distance of 120
miles. The system adopted is more or less similar
to that in Vie. (5) No automatic train-stops are
in use in S.A E. 8.: Orange, 8590; Inverell,
5390; Wellington, 3560. Figures are estimated
populations at December 30, 1930... .K. 0.: (1)
“Angora Wool Rabbits for Profit,” by Arthur Sains-
bury, obtainable leading booksellers. (2) Rabbit
Fur Farmers’ Assoc, of N.S.W., Box 1104 H, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .W.D.: George Bowen, mpster of the
transport Albemarle in 1791, did not belong to the
family you mention, neither did the mariner of the
same surname who was second mate of the Lady
Nelson when Grant took her to Western Port and
Port Phillip... .G.T.8.: Unprocurable in Sydney,
and no price quoted. Made by J. O. Hutton, Box
262 D, G.P.0., Brisbane, who will supply further
particulars... .L.V.: (1) The providore of the co.
concerned. (2) and (4) Matronly women with
general experience of cabin requirements for ladies
and children, nursing, etc. (3) On Australian-
articled vessels, yes... .A.E.M.: Write Lindsay A.
Cormack, 4 Underwood-street, Sydney... .F.D.8.;
Arsenate of soda cannot be used instead of arsenic
boiled with soda, as the latter produces not arsenate,
but arsenite of soda, an entirely different chemical.
....(Many others mailed.)


Dope
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
MA. Oxon., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etty Smith from a
half-breed's knife in a Sydney -water-
front “dive.” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him to fight his
craving. As she tends him Johns
realises that she loves him. At Lola
Fang a Fay Campbell, on a cruise in her
father’s steam yacht, Arethusa, visits
Etty—and Johns meets his ideal.
Campbell is astounded when Johns
refuses his offer of assistance. That
night, inspired by Varley, one-time
medical student, now the cook, who
loves Etty, Johns deserts, stow-
ing away in the Arethusa’s life-boat.
He hears Fay discuss him, and she
scarcely conceals her interest in him
from her father. Racked by his crav-
ing, Johns sneaks ashore at Zandavar
to Varley’s friend, Wooden Charlie,
half-caste owner of a drinking-hell,
who gives him dope and, later, a job.
Meeting Fay ostensibly by accident
before she sails, Johns confesses his
weakness; she is sure lie will con-
quer it. Mutual aid and understanding
make Johns and Charlie as brothers.
So that he may give Johns an oppor-
tunity to concentrate on ivriting his
“great book,” Charlie arranges to sell
hts joint when a drink-erased Yankee
shoots him. The place catches fire.
Frantic with grief Johns manages to
drag Charlie’s body from the building.
Blindly escaping from the crowd, he is
attacked by but shoots a garrotter.
Johns collapses into a house. Flora,
who keeps it, tells Captain Gibbons
that although she will not marry _ him
—she is consumptive—she -will ship on
the Spindrift if he will take Johns,
too. He agrees.
BOOK lII—THE SPINDRIFT.
Chapter IV ( Continued .)
Ernest william johns, m.a.
Oxon., and Stephen Gibbons, master
of the Spindrift, stood at the stem
silent and constrained while Flora was away
getting Johns his “issue.” Once Gibbons
pointed at the two mast-tops that showed
above the water near the reef.
“The Wilhelmina,” he said. “Sunk dur-
ing the war. They’ve never bothered to
get her up again.”
Johns nodded.
“They were devils, the Huns.” Gibbons
searched for something more to say, but
no words came to him, and the silence
weighed down on them again.
They each felt relief as Flora came back
with the w r isp of paper. She was to ration
Johns right from the start. That had
already been agreed.
Something warned him against taking the
cocaine in front of Gibbons. It w r as bad
enough that he should have any knowledge
that his passenger was a “dope fiend.” To
make the knowledge more factual by con-
crete evidence would have been foolish;
it would.have served no point, and Johns
felt strangely averse to jeopardising what-
ever kindly feeling Gibbons might have for
him, despite his jealousy. He made his
excuses and left the girl and her lover
alone. In the privacy of his cabin he would
be better able, too, to get the full benefit
from the drug.
When he had gone Flora turned to Gib-
bons.
“Well?”
The monosyllable was half-defiant, lialf-
opologetic.
“He’s a gentleman, of course.” Gibbons
.was patently fair in his verdict. “But he
looks a wreck.”
“And he is! No wonder, either. He’s
been through Hell.”
She was positive in her statement. She
was peculiarly anxious .to justify her
actions. Now that they were actually on
board the Spindrift, she was beginning to
realise that she had had more than a little
cool effrontery. She had hardly given Steve
a fair deal. Within twenty-four hours or
so of refusing him she had come to him
asking him to take herself and another
man as passengers. That the other man
was Johns, that she felt nothing for him
but a great pity and a great gratitude that
he should have wanted to save her from
herself, were nothing. Gibbons had known
nothing of that when she had asked him
to help her out. Simply lie had asked her
if she was in earnest. He had been satis-
fied with her answer, and he had agreed
to take them. It had not, in fact, occurred
to him to refuse her. He had known her
for five years, and every time he had seen
her he had grown to love her more. That
had been obvious, and whatever she wished
of him was law.
“I wonder how many men would have
done this for me?” She was looking up at
him—he was head and shoulders above her
as they stood on the deck—and the clear
morning sun lighted her face to show the
dazzling transparency of her skin —a trans-
parency that to a medical man would have
told its own tragically prognostic tale. But
Stephen Gibbons was no medical man, and
still, despite the circumstances, he saw her
with the eyes of love.
He shrugged and laughed a little un-
happily.
“No one else,” he told her, and his voice
was very gentle. The crispness of the chill
morning air seemed to emphasise the ten-
derness that was in his words. “No one
else, because no one else will ever love you
as I do.” He shook his head, and for a
moment his voice became harsh. “God
knows why I do, when there are a hundred
of you in every port.” He was being
brutally frank; and yet she did not mind.
It was the truth that he was saying, and
she had learned to face facts and the truth
unflinchingly in the past few years. “And
yet, none like you. God Almighty, Flora,
a man doesn’t lightly want to marry—a
girl like you. And yet I’m here, ready for
you whenever you like. You’ll get tired of
him sooner or later; and I’ll still be wait-
ing.”
Her eyes softened with tears. “You’re a
dear!” she said, and secretly thrilled to
see the glow that sprang to his eyes.
“You’re a dear.” She laid a hand on his
arm. “Steve, if there was anyone I could
many it would be you. But you know”
Gibbons shook his head impatiently.
“I’ve told you I don’t care a damn! I’m
not afraid of t.b. God Almighty, Flora
child, if you had leprosy I’d still want
you.”
His eyes went out to the horizon, and
his fingers drummed nervily on the rail.
She stopped their fidgetting with her own.
“Steve, you know”
He turned on her suddenly. “Flora,
child, I’m not asking you to be my wife—
for that! It’s you I want.”
She squeezed his hand. “And that’s just
why I’m not going to let you sacrifice your-
self, Steve!” Her voice was suddenly cheer-
ful, and the brightness of her smile de-
ceived him. “You run along and man the
wheel or whatever you do when you’re at
sea. I’ve got to go down to see that my
baby’s safe in bed. You’ll be nice to him,
won’t you, Steve? It’s not he who’s ‘cut
you out,’ you know. It’s not anybody!”
She left him standing by the rail watch-
ing the far horizon with eyes whose pale
blue seemed to have faded almost to white.
He was puzzling over her first sentence.
What did she mean by “sacrifice”? It
wasn’t a question of morality, surely! Flora
knew that he had nothing to “sacrifice” at
her altar she could surely realise that.
He had been no better—and no worse—
than the rest of his kind. He had told her
often enough—and downrightly enough—
that he, like any other man, had, until he
had met her, cherished hopes of marrying
someone who would not have belonged to
anyone else.
“And that’s just where you men are such
fools!” she had told him once. “You’ve
got the logic of a lot of fleas! You all have
your good times, and then, when you de-
cide to settle down, you look round for
someone ‘different’—not the sort you have
so far known. Oh, I’ve heard all that be-
fore—from both sides.”
She had laughed at the astonishment in
his face.
That had been three years ago. Three
years ago—and still he could remember
that the very next day he had seen a fight
in the bar of the Metropole. There had
been a young Yankee there, and he had
resented Flora’s name being mentioned, not
pleasantly, by a flashy second officer, with
buck teeth and an irritating habit of sniff-
ing to punctuate his sentences. The second
had got the worst of it, and the Yankee
had blown about it, and skited so much
that he, Stephen Gibbons, had taken a
fierce, soul-destroying pleasure in proving
to the American that the second had for
once at least been telling the truth. Even
now the recollection of the boy’s collapse
like a pricked balloon brought a certain
grim enjoyment, and evoked a rather mali-
cious grin that called into life the crows’
feet about his eyes, and brought back a
little color to the bleached irises.
But it was a puzzle
—that was the girl
whom he wanted to
marry!
But, then, all life
was the same. A
damned jigsaw puzzle
that led you on and
on, with always an-
other piece left lying
loose when you
thought you had got,
the right pattern.
Stephen Gibbons
shrugged fatalistically
and turned his atten-
tion to the sails. There,
at least, was something that he could under-
stand.
BOOK HI—THE SPINDRIFT.
Part 11.
Chapter I.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., stood
at the bow of the Spindrift. His shirt was
open at the neck and his head was bared
to the faint breeze that scarcely stirred the
listlessly drooping sails.
It was the hour of the dawn and already
the silhouette of the bow against the quiet
ocean had begun to take on finiteness. The
growing light etched in the larger details,
and erased the phosphorescence that had
made the contrast for the shadow-drawing.
A solitary gull floated around the Spindrift,
as though to make sure that all of it was
there, and then resumed its place among -
its fellows over the faint wake.
It was hard to realise, Johns mused a
dozen times, that it was eight months since
that dawn when he had stood at the after-
rail of the Spindrift, and watched the quay-
side buildings of Zandavar slowly slipping
away from them.
Zandavar—the city that held the dead
body of Wooden Charlie, and, at that time,
too, the dead ashes of his own bright hopes l
And yet, if he had stayed there, would he
realty have been as well off as he now was?
Was it realty true that idea of the old
blind sea-captain that Fay had told to him?
That the Master Pilot “pricked the
courses” and that they, all humanity, could
only follow willy-nilly along their pre-
ordained routes? It was hard to say. And,
after all, what did it matter? Predestina-
tion, or coincidence—it was all much of a
muchness in the long run. Whatever the
cause, things had certainty turned out for
him as well as anyone could have expected.
Better even than he had, perhaps, the right
to have expected. All along the line he
had been helped by other people. What
he would have been thanks to his own
efforts was evident—he only had to recall
himself as he was that night at Gabriel’s
Heaven to realise that!
He shook his head, and stared unseeingly
at the tiny bow wave. It was difficult
enough to realise that he was actually
and absolutely cured. It was difficult enough
to realise that another fortnight now would
see him back once more at Zandavar, in
his right mind, and with his manuscript
practically completed. The Spindrift was
to call at Kai-Moroa for a few days. And
then—Zandavar! The first step towards
home. That, in itself, was marvel enough,
without bothering about the relative share
of chance and Providence in bringing it
about.
It - was doubly difficult to realise that
time could have slipped by so pleasantly.
And yet it had. The last few months had
gone by in a succession of work-filled days
and dreamless nights.
The cocaine craving had gone months ago
—actually within a month of setting sail—
but the passing of it had been so gentle'
that he could not have said definitely when
the last lingering trace of desire had left
him.
But there had been a sharp fight at first.
The first twenty-four hours had been a Hell
as bad as any that he had known. The
shock of the fire, the tragic death of
Wooden Charlie and the grisly recollection
of that encounter in the lane had all com-
bined to throw him back, for the time, to
a state as bad as any that had been his lot
before. For twenty-four hours he had been
a raving maniac—he could remember fleet-
ing periods of consciousness when every
nerve had been a red-hot needle boring its
way towards his brain.
But, to counteract his weakness there had
been the girl. Fay he had thought her in
his ravings: it had been Fay who had bent
over him so solicitously; who had laid cool
palms on his supra-orbital nerves so that
their throbbing had gradually eased with-
out the influence of the “snow.” It had
been Fay’s golden head that had moved
about the cabin; Fay’s violet-shadowed
eyes that had smiled so re-assuringly into
his, and hypnotised him into drug-free
sleep. It had been for Fay that he had
made his agonised efforts to “do without
it for a little longer”—efforts that had found
him, by the third day, able to feel that he
could do without it in comfort.
It had been then, and then only, that
Flora had come back. He had been
appalled in the change in her. She had
slipped back in those three days, and he
began to realise something of the strain
that her efforts had cost her. He had been
contrite, bitterly upset about it.. He had
been draining her vitality, prejudicing her
chances.
“Never mind!” she had begged him
eagerly, pathetically wistful. “What am I,
anyway? It might count a little on my side
of the ledger. One good deed, anyway.
And Fay will be grateful, even if God
isn’t!”
She had laughed suddenly, but very ten-
derly.
“I’m the bit of wreckage that keeps the
drowning man afloat. There, you didn’t
know I had even that much idealism in
me, did you?”
And it was true! He had been a drown-
ing man; and Flora had saved him. There
was no doubt of that. She had cured him
—or, as she insisted in a passion for
honestj r , she had finished the cure that
others had begun.
But the cure had not been mutual. So
much for his promises that night when he
had first met her! He would take her away,
he had said, so that she could rehabilitate;
and all he had done was to allow himself
to be led like a two-year-old child. He had
gone where she had said; he had sat back
and allowed her to do all the arranging, to
face all the difficulties—psychological
rather than physical, hence all the more
trying—that she had encountered in arrang-
ing the trip that had cured him. Another
debt imponderable! Even now he could
scarcely believe at times that it was indeed
he whose veins flowed with such life. It
was almost as though Flora had taken him,
and moulded him, and made of him a new
man. Each day was no longer just so
many hours of uninterest to be endured;
each day was now a beckoning vista of
hours in which to write.
And he was writing well. There was no
question about that. The promise that he
had made to the Archangel Gabriel was
coming true. The book had forged ahead.
Had written itself, almost. A month or so
now, and it would be finished. Then he
could go back home—home!—and start
again.
It was at that point always that his
thoughts came to an abrupt end. There
was the problem of Flora. He felt that he
could hardly leave her, desert her as he
would a lifebuoy that had served its pur-
pose. If only she would give in to Gib-
bons’s perpetual urgings! If she were
safely married to the skipper of the Spin-
drift he could go home with a clear con-
science; but he could not face the prospect
of being home himself, and knowing that
Flora, the woman who had helped him, was
still a wanderer. If she had health and
strength to work, it would have been less
difficult perhaps. But she had not. He
doubted if she ever would have strength.
And, of course, she could not go back to
the old life. He would rather kill her
himself.
The Spindrift dawdled on through the
oily sea; but she brought him no nearer to
a solution of his problem.
For the first time in months he lacked
that morning the urge to think out the
day’s work. Usually, by breakfast time, he
had. marshalled his facts, sketched in his
characters’ words and deeds, and was ready
to put the whole on paper. But to-day it
was different.
The air was heavy and listless, as though
the night had slept with windows closed,
and the sea lay inert. __ The sails hung
almost flaccid, scarcely influenced by the
faint breath of air that lacked the strength
to ruffle the water. Only the, sun seemed
full of energy; by eight bells it had suc-
ceeded in raising from the ocean an invis-
ible pall of moisture that hung cloyingly
in the air, so that it was almost a con-
scious effort to draw breath. The saloon at
breakfast time was humid almost to the
point of nausea.
“I feel washed out!” Flora’s voice, as she
unfolded her table napkin, was light and
bantering, but Johns detected the under-
lying truth. “I feel as if I’d had a very
large night last night—with too many lob-
sters, and too much bubbly! Steve, I sus-
pect you of running us into the doldrums.
There must be someone you don’t want
to meet at Kai-Moroa.”
Gibbons grinned, but said nothing. He
was busy with the plate of porridge that
formed his first course at breakfast, no
matter what the weather or the humidity
might be. It was not until he had finished
that that he spoke.
“It’s going to blow r ,” he told them then,
and his voice was unusually serious. “There
won’t be any ‘doldrums’ about it then.
You’ll get a real taste of what it would be
like to be a sailor’s wifel” Flora wriggled
her shoulders. She always was uncomfort-
able when Gibbons made references to his
“broken heart,” and it was Johns’s shrewd
suspicion that the humorous way in which
he made the references covered an ache
that was greater than Flora suspected.
“It’s not going to be rough, is it?” She
hurried her words as though driven by an
awkwardness that had come upon her sud-
denly. “I simply couldn’t bear to be
seasick. A green complexion wouldn’t
suit my hair a bit!”
“You’re looking pretty pasty on it, as it
is!”
Gibbons made the discovery with a
sudden tinge of anxiety in his voice. Johns,
watching the girl, saw the color drain still
more from her cheeks. A hunted look came
into her eyes, and she glanced quickly at
Johns as though wondering if he had
guessed her fear. The captain of the Spin-
drift leaned over and rested his hand on
her forehead.
“You’ve got a temperature, too! What’s
the matter, Flora girl?”
Flora shook her head impatiently.
“Wouldn’t anyone have a temperature on
a day like this? It’s as hot as the hobs of
Hell!” She pushed back her plate, the
food on it practically untasted. “I’m going
up on deck—l can’t stick this heat!”


Importing
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
f HE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL. STATES'G
I «o
*DAe. Someth. JhtduOtty
<pet& HO Jcntui Ot founty.
m
4
7(*jL la* X
a
~oi>ruLC6
r
fssg/g
■?3
■ :: i
.t,J.
00
i
m
a®
*
ygm .
7/Pr.
SgSu
m
C 3»
$3
SS@
US
SF
m
c.
v?r*« S*
A CORRESPONDENT asked, recently, why we were putting ourselves
to the expense of inserting these statements in the press. The explana-
tion is that certain critics of the Australian Sugar Industry persist in making
false statements about us. They persist, even when they have been shown
the falsity and absurdity of their contentions, and we cannot afford to
remain silent.
Our very existence, and the maintenance of Australia’s hold on the
tropical North, depends largely on the observance of the Sugar Agreement.
We know that much of the opposition to the agreement is engineered from
foreign countries, and is in the interests of their trade. These people make
use of some of our women’s organisations, and we find good women, who
ought to know better, carelessly playing into the hands of foreigners seeking
to capture our markets with their black-grown sugar. It is all very astonish-
ing, but very harmful to Australia as a whole.
The principal falsehood that is being constantly repeated is that the
Sugar Industry receives a “huge bonus” from the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. It receives nothing of the sort. Neither the Sugar Company nor the
growers receive one penny of subsidy or bonus. There is an embargo on the
importation of sugar (as on many other Australian products), and an agree-
ment under which the industry has undertaken NOT to raise its price in
order to make good its losses on export. That is all, and yet our fellow-
countrymen are being fed with all sorts of tarradiddles about “profits” and
“monopolies,” and are being told that we are robbing them. It is grossly
unfair but, worse still, it is a menace to Australia.
inserted bu the.
Sugar Growers of Australia
fov the ffiyfoirma tion of the People
Gibbons looked interrogatively at Johns
when she had gone.
“I don’t know,” Johns answered the un-
spoken question hesitatingly. “It may only
be the heat, of course. It’d be quite under-
standable. But she hasn’t seemed to be
so-well lately, I’ve thought more than once.
She seems to be slipping away—losing
weight.” He pursed his lips; it was not an
easy thing to admit. It struck rather
sharply at his conscience. “You know, I
can’t help thinking that the sea air hasn’t
done her very much good. Not lately,
anyway. It’s like that sometimes, you
know. Lungs seem to vary; some seem to
do better in the sea air; and others must
have the mountain air.” He stared at the
skipper unhappily. “She’s cured me, too,
you know. It seems a bit rough if”
“You’re not to blame, Johnny.” Gibbons
shook his head reassuringly. “Damn it,
man, there’s no need to hold yourself
responsible. It was all for her good as much
as yours that you wanted to get her away
from Zandavar, and it beats me how the
devil you managed it when I couldn’t.
She doesn’t love you, you know”—Johns
nodded—“she doesn’t love you, and yet
she’ll come away with you when she
wouldn’t budge for me!”
It was Johns’s turn to be reassuring.
“May be that’s why—why she wouldn’t
budge, I mean. Because she loves you.
She does, you know. There’s not a doubt
about that.”
“Well, then”—the skipper’s voice was
puzzled, edgy with incomprehension—
“well, then, if what you say’s true—and I
only wish to God I could believe it as
easily as you say it—if what you say’s true,
why in the name of smoke won’t she many
me? Now, I mean. Now she’s left Zan-
davar, left that hell for good. Her old
reasons don’t hold any more.”
Johns shook his head.
“They might,” he said gently. “Women
are queer. They get funny ideas.”
“What do you mean?” Gibbons was
almost on the aggressive. It was as though
he suspected Johns of having some idea that
he, and not Flora’s old life, might be the
cause for her obstinacy. “What do you
mean, Johnny?”
Johns shrugged. “Oh, well, you know,
it’s only an idea. Probably nothing in it.
But perhaps she thinks if she married you,
there might be—might be youngsters. And
perhaps she thinks that you mightn’t be
too keen on the idea of your kids having—
well, what she’s been for a mother.”
It was significant of the changed rela-
tions between Johns and the man who had
looked on him with contempt when he had
first come aboard the Spindrift that Johns
should make such a daring speech. In
the past two months, particularly, Gibbons
had shown himself more than a little en-
vious of the younger man’s education, and
a strange friendship had sprung up between
them. But Johns was a little dubious of
how the skipper would take this daring
speech. It was a daring speech. Johns
knew that, and he had thought rapidly
before he had ventured to make it. But
he wanted to let Gibbons see a possible
point of view, and it certainly showed Flora
up in a good light—and a light which, he
suspected, might be the true one.
Stephen Gibbons stroked his chin, and
nodded sombrely at Johns. “If any one
else had said that,” he told him, “I don’t
know how I’d have taken it. But with
you—well, I know you pretty well now,
Johnny; well enough to be sure you’re not
suggesting anything derogatory to Flora.”
“It’s only a theory,” Johns explained.
“But sometimes one gets a sudden inspira-
tion”—
“And I damned well believe you’re
right!”
Gibbons was amazed at not having seen
that point of view for himself. It was a
poor tribute to his affection that a stranger,
an outsider, had to justify Flora’s actions
in his eyes! That it was the truth, this
“theory” of Johnny’s, Jhe had suddenly
become convinced, and his gratitude to
Johns for having brought the truth to his
mind embarrassed him, so that he dropped
the subject hurriedly.
“You haven’t got a sea scene in that
book of yours, I suppose?” he asked, with
a self-conscious laugh.
“No—why?”
“Because you’ll get plenty of ideas for
one before to-day’s out!” The skinner had
suddenly become deadly serious. “The glass
has dropped to blazes,” he explained. “I’m
only hoping we can make an offing in time.
Kai-Moroa’s fifty miles away, and it’s the
nearest land. And that’s twelve hours’
sail with the wind like this.”
“But only about four and a half, isn’t
it, if the wind gets up?” Johns had learned
a lot about knots and knottage in the past
few months. But he had never been at
sea, twelve hours after the glass had
dropped “to blazes.”
Gibbons frowned at the question. “If
the wind does get up,” he said, “we’ve got
as much chance of making Kai as a jelly-
fish! No; I reckon our best bet is to pray
it doesn’t!”
Johns followed him slowly to the deck.
The brooding spell that had oppressed him
earlier in the morning had been accen-
tuated by the other’s words. They had only
served to emphasise what he had already
known, intuitively. He had had the sense
of impending disaster from the moment
he had first come on deck that day.
There was an air of despondency over
the whole ship and her crew. The mate
stood draped against the weather rail, and
Johns guessed that his eyes were fixed on
that quarter of the horizon from which the
faint stirring of the air was coming. Three
of the four Kanakas who formed the crew
were huddled together at the rail a little
further forward. Primitive people, their
intuition told them as much as, if not
more than, the barometer had told their
white employer. Trouble was coming, and
they had automatically grouped themselves
together, like sheep before the storm. It
was significant of the mate’s mood that he
had not bothered to find them work to do.
Johns watched the skipper speak to the
mate and then walk across to the wheel and
give the fourth Kanaka orders for the
course. The helmsman, in answer to a
question, unheard by Johns, but easily
enough divined, shrugged his shoulders
fatalistically, and turned eloquent eyes
toward the sun, which already had a faint
halo of golden haze around it, although the
sky was as yet cloudless,
To a landsman’s eye there would have
seemed little enough to worry about. But
Johns, in the past few months, had come
to know the lazy, dreaming Pacific in most
of its moods, and he realised that this
present one was new to him. He had never
seen things quite as they were to-day. The
strange coppeiy hue of the sun, with its
ever-widening halo —a thing of beauty per-
haps to untutored eyes. The utter heavi-
ness of the air—it reminded him strangely
of the drab draperies of Wooden Charlie’s
in the early mornings before the cleaners
arrived. The invisible weight that seemed
to hamper the comfort of his breathing, that
elevated it from the ranks of sub-conscious
functions. The oiliness of the sea—it was
as though it sulked, brooding over its
wrongs.
He awoke from his reverie to find Flora
at his side.
“Why aren’t you working?” she asked. “I
thought the book was going so well?”
He shrugged. “I’m not superhuman!”
The laugh that accompanied the words was
forced. “This weather’s a bit too much of
a good thing. The wheels won’t go round
to-day.”
“You’i’e going to be famous with that
book of yours, Johnny.” She was looking at
him eagerly, and he noticed how the sudden
animation in her eyes emphasised the waxy
pallor of her cheeks. He marvelled that
he had not noticed it long ago; read the
danger signal that must surely have been
there for weeks. He was a selfish brute—
he had been too utterly absorbed in his
book to find time to recognise the fading
vitality of the girl who had made possible
its writing. He waved the book aside with
an impatient gesture.
“Never mind the damned book!” he said.
“Flora child, I’m worried about you. You’re
looking rotten! What’s the matter?”
“It’s only the weather.” She was laugh-
ing up at him, but he had caught the sudden
glint of anxiety that had shown in her eyes
for a fleeting second. “Don’t you worry
about me, Johnny, my dear! You get
ahead with your job. I’m dying to read
it.”
(To be continued next week.)


Winter
Holi days
at concession rates!
EXCURSION FARES 0
(NO EXCHANGE) d
SUVA, FIJI.
Hound Trip, 23 days, Ist Class
Return. £.35.
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class
Return, £75.
Seven-weeks’ Tour, Cabin Class
Return, £55.
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return,
. £4O.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Cabin Class Return.
£34.
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and Rarotonga, Ist Class
Return, £55.
Seven-weeks’ Tour, Cabin Class Return, £4O.
For full particulars, apply to :
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney ;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
a
m
m
m
m
m
m
NB
I II I i
«ai 9 l
e. 3- S- *
Ml
sniff NOINn
m
m?.
i
SR
W
w
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
CONSTIPATION
THE THIEF OF ENERCV
There is no need for you to suffer from constipation when
you can correct it with FIGSEN. Figsen is as prompt in action
as it is gentle and natural. No purging. No griping pain.
Figsen acts smoothly on the intestinal muscles and helps them
to perform their natural functions.
Figsen is easy to take and will not upset the most delicate
stomach. It is good for kiddies as well as adults.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
X
L
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Rebellion.
S. STEDMAN HERE WRITED ANOTHER STORY THAT TOUCHES
THE DEPTHS OF THE RUSSIAN CHARACTER.
IT was not in Parfen’s nature to complain.
Life to him presented no difficult pro-
blems or insurmountable obstacles. The
days came and passed in a well-regulated pro-
cession, and his duty was to accept them.
He knew that one season would succeed
another, that winter would follow autumn
and spring give place to summer. He knew
what his task would be at a certain time of
the year many years ahead and he found
pleasure in contemplating his ordered future.
Born in a small village, he had no desire
to see the great city and the wonderful
things he heard of.
During the long winter, when there was
no field work, Parfen took his pleasures
like other men. He visited the Government
vodka shop and drank. It was natural to
drink, because all other men drank and the
shop was there. Had there been no vodka
in the village, Parfen would not have had
any desire for it.
For the same reason Parfen went to church
on Sundays and holidays. The church was
there and so was the priest; therefore it
was natural to visit the church and listen to
the sermon. All these things were there for a
purpose, and Parfen carried out the purpose.
When the time came for him to get mar-
ried, he began to take more interest in the
village girls. Particularly did he take notice
of Agafya. Fie saw her working in the field,
milking the cows, baking bread and sewing.
He admired her strong legs, her large hands
and the well-developed breasts.
“She’ll stand it,” was the summary of his
observations, and in these words he expressed
all he expected of his future wife. There
was a lot for a peasant’s wife to stand.
Soon after they were married. Parfen
assumed a certain amount of dignity, as
befits a married man, worked a little harder,
paid more attention to his home.
When the first child was born, he was
happy. Children were an asset in a peasant’s
household, particularly boys, and Agafya
seemed to grow stronger and prettier, which
promised well.
Thus lived Parfen,. obeying the simple
rules of Life, and everything worked out
smoothly, pleasantly.
Then came a day when Russia was plunged
into war with Germany, Parfen was called
to the colors. Agafya cried bitterly, and her
husband knew it was natural for a woman to
cry. He too felt upset, yet to object or
complain he would not. Throughout the
ages men had gone to war, and it was
through war that Russia had become a
mighty empire. It was said in the sacred
Book that God accompanied the armies who
fought for a just cause. To himself Parfen
admitted that he had never seen a German
in his life and had nothing against them.
But, then, who was he to question the wis-
dom of things? Were there not men whose
duty it was to guard the welfare of Russia?
Parfen soon fell into the life at the front.
The village, with his home, his wife and
child, took a place in his memory just behind
the immediate interests. During quiet
moments, when the German guns were silent,
he could forget the war and dream of the
village. Scenes and faces passed before him
then in an orderly way. He saw Agafya,
still strong and healthy, waiting for him;
then his boy. and after him his horses, cows
and every detail of his home. And then
suddenly a shell would explode somewhere
near, and Parfen would lock all these memo-
ries in the strong room of his mind and
devote himself to the tasks around him. He
saw men being torn to pieces, maimed and
ruined for life. He felt deeply sorry for
them and for the wives and children who
waited for their return. It did not seem
right. Something, somewhere, had gone
wrong; but how could he, Parfen, or the
millions of men like him who were there,
find out who had blundered? Their duty
was to carry on.
As the years passed, life in the trenches,
with its dangers, its miseries and beastliness,
seemed to become the true life, and the life he
had lived before but a memory. Often when
he heard men complain he would speak to
them in a voice full of quiet assurance. “This
is the last war, my friends,” he would say;
and when they laughed he would try to con-
vince them. “Surely the whole world is not
mad,” he would argue. “Why, men of every
nation are rotting in the trenches, living like
rats and dying by the million. Would they
all do these things if there was nothing to do
it for? If they thought war was to return/
And because he believed thus in its ulti-
mate good, Parfen continued fighting.
When the Revolution came and soldiers
began to desert the trenches, he felt deeply
distressed. It was not the thought of their
desertion that worried him, but the fact
that no satisfactory end had been made of
tne war, that the job was not finished and
that thus another war was left possible, it
was for these reasons that he refused to
follow the Bolsheviki and fought against
them. But every encounter with them brought
him intense suffering. His heart was not in
the struggle; he longed to go home to his
wife and child and his piece of land; but the
thought of his son, who might some day be
called upon to endure what he, Parfen, had
endured, gave him new energies to continue,
in the hope of making the world a safe and
pleasant place to live in.
With the defeat of Kolchak, Parfen, with
the remnants of the “White” armies, _ fled
into Manchuria. There he remained, waiting
patiently for the door of his beloved Russia
to open and admit him. It was a hard life
that he led in Harbin. The seventy-odd thou-
sand Russians who found refuge there had
to compete with Chinese coolies for a living.
Parfen worked on the wharves during the
summer, loading steamers which carried
goods along the Sungari River to the Amur.
In the winter, when ice covered the waters
of the Sungari, he did odd jobs about the
town ; and when he found a position of an
izvoschik, life seemed quite tolerable.
He took little interest in anything outside
his work. The city with its affairs inter-
ested him but little. He knew Harbin was
built by Russia and everything in it was
Russia’s, but the soil was Chinese. When
his work was finished he would enter a small
Russian restaurant, and, sipping cabbage-
soup loudly, would enjoy his meal and for
a while forget that he was a fugitive.
It was there he met Pelageya. He noticed
her attentions by the way she served him, by
the extra-large pieces of bread and meat he
found on his plate. Often he inspected her
critically, comparing her with Agafya. She,
too, was healthy and strong, but Parfen
usually dismissed the thoughts of her. Pela-
geya seemed just a passing acquaintance,
something belonging to this foreign city.
The longing for home he felt with parti-
cular keenness during holy days. He would
go to church, yet come out unsatisfied. He
felt the need for close companionship, for
people who felt as he did. But in Harbin
he saw Russians whose main object in life
was bread, and Chinese who knew nothing
of holy days, and who had no interest in him.
His longing he usually drowned in large
glasses of vodka in the small restaurant. He
would sit for hours thinking, and, if there
happened to be no customers, Pelageya would
sit close by and listen to him. Late in the
night he would stagger home to his lodgings.
On one of these occasions he woke in a
strange room. For some time he endeavored
to recollect the happenings of the night
before, and only when Pelageya entered the
room did he understand what had occurred.
After all, she was a fine woman, and life
would be more pleasant. No one knew how
long he would have to wait for his return
to Agafya.
Thus Parfen came to live with Pelageya.
To him it was still but a phase of his life in
this foreign land, a phase which had no con-
nection with the real life in his village, and
which he would wipe out of his memory
when he could resume his former life.
* * * ijc
A dense and motley crowd filled the
streets of ITarbin. Chinese merchants dressed
in padded silk coats rubbed shoulders with
ragged coolies, and Russians of all ranks and
walks mixed with their Chinese neighbors.
The buzz of subdued voices was now and
again drowned by the clatter and clang of a
passing tram. Here and there a driver of
a motor-car had to force his way through,
the people reluctantly giving way. The cries
of the news vendors rose above the voices of
the crowd, who eagerly snatched at the
papers which told of the latest developments
in the war with Japan. Outside the offices
of the newspapei's the people had completely
blocked the streets, and, though the cold was
intense and the wind strong and chilling,
they appeared unaware of it. Now
and again some patriot, unable to suppress
his feelings, would begin addressing his coun-
trymen, exhorting them to resist the inva-
sion of their land by the Japanese. Paren
would listen, guessing at the meaning.
At such times his heart felt heavy and a
fierce anger rose within him. He had always
submitted to the force of circumstances, but
now he felt rebellion in his breast. Millions
had died that war would be no more, and
now the same world permitted one nation to
attack another, the strong to rob the weak,
to prove that the world was deceived and
men had died in vain.
He could again see the shell-torn fields,
the ruins of towns and villages and the
misery of the people. But his helplessness
apnal'lod him, and he was gripped in an over-
whelming pity for those men and women
whom the new war had doomed. He wanted
to shout, to tell poor, suffering humanity
to stop it. For the sake of the living, the
dead and the unborn —to stop it!
Making his way with difficulty through the
throng, Parfen walked towards the Sungari.
There he stood watching Chinese pulling
small sledges ■ across the ice and getting a
few cents from those who wished to enjoy
the ride. In the distance he saw _ the
railway bridge which' spanned the river,
and which the Russians intended blow-
ing up to prevent the Japanese crossing
the Sungari. Just beyond the bridge he
saw the high chimney-stacks of the Chinese
city of Fu-dzia-dian, with its teeming popu-
lation. From there he made his way to the
restaurant, where Pelageya gave him hot
tea with lemon, and then pelmeny, which
he liked. There were other men present, and
some of them had enlisted in the Chinese
army. There were also rumors of White Rus-
sians working behind the Japanese lines.
Parfen was grieved to hear it. He could
not bear the thought of Russian officers and
men becoming mercenary troops, though he
understood that hunger compelled them to do
so. It was monstrous that these people
were forced by starvation to become sol-
diers in the armies of Asiatic nations, when
just across the border lay Russia with its
vast fields and forests waiting to be used.
Parfen asked for vodka, as millions of
other Russians have done throughout the
ages when they wished to forget their sorrow.
“There’s war, Pelageya,” he said; and
though he had said it many times before, the
woman heard him in silence.
On his way to his droshky Parfen heard
the news of the Japanese attack on the vil-
lage of Mo-dya-gow, which lies between the
new and the old Harbin. He was petrified.
He did not expect the horrible thing to be
so near, always thought of it as far away.
The booming of guns sent a shiver through
him, but his movements were calm and de-
liberate. Fie knew exactly what he had to
do. If the world would not, or could not,
stop this catastrophe, he, Parfen, and mil-
lions of others who knew what war meant,
would stop it. They who had fought and
suffered in the last war would do so again ;
but this time it would be as a protest. To
Parfen it seemed that men throughout the
world must rise against the aggressor and
make him understand that they had already
fought to end war.
He drove through side-streets, avoiding the
crowds. There he unharnessed and fed his
horse; then once more he repaired to the
restaurant —to wish Pelageya farewell.
Pelageya was astonished at his decision,
argued with' him, pointed out that the war
had nothing to do with. him. that it was
madness to risk one’s life in a quarrel
between yellow heathens. “You are a fool,
Parfen,” she cried.
Parfen listened and felt sorry for her.
He liked her in a way—not as he liked
Agafya; but, then, Agafya was his real
wife—and he felt grateful,
“You don’t understand, Pelageya,” he was
saying. “It’si not because they Avant to take
Harbin; that means nothing to me. It is
because I thought war had finished. To-day
they take Harbin, to-morrow somebody may
want to take my village.”
“But your village has already been taken
by the Bolsheviki,” Pelageya reminded him.
He smiled. “That's our own business,” he
said. “It’s a family affair. We started it;
we shall settle it.”
He left, the restaurant, Pelageya running
after him, crying, as did once Agafya; and
Parfen wondered at the strangeness of
woman’s nature.
“Why should she cry?” he asked. And
his thoughts fled to Agafya,
He crossed the railway line, pushing his
way through crowds of terrified, Chinese, who
were fleeing to the Pristan, occupied mostly
by Russians, whole families carrying their
scanty belongings, or pushing wheelbarrows
laden with old women and children. A blaz-
ing hatred raged within him.
Rounding a large building, he saw, erouch-
Rig near the wall, a Japanese soldier. Parfen
sprang back, and, going round the building,
emerged behind him. Slowly, noiselessly, he
crept forward, keeping close to the wall. To
Parfen the solitary soldier with his gun was
the incarnation of War, of the hated spirit
which dared disturb the peace of the world
an d make fun of the hopes of men.
With one swift jump lie was upon the
Japanese, and the two figures rolled on to
the snow. Their struggle was fierce and
silent, each one knowing that defeat meant
death. With a sudden jerk, Parfen threw
the Japanese off his balance and the next
minute the cold steel of the bayonet pierced
his heart. He lay still at Parfen’s feet,
his blood staining the white snow,
As if awakened from a dream, Parfen
looked at the body. His blood seemed to
freeze within his veins. He bent lower,
staring into the face of the dead soldier:
then hastily he undid the tunic, and on a
silken cord around his neck he found a small
brass cross.
“My God, a Russian!” he whispered
brokenly. “A Russian !”
A feeling of shame and pity gripped him.
“Forgive me, brother,” he begged. “I was
mad with sorrow. I had to do something.”
He sat in the snow, telling the dead soldier
of his love and his pity for mankind, which
was once more in danger of war. His
thoughts were in a whirl. He seemed to lose
touch with things. Everything around him
was becoming unreal and beyond understand-
ing. He had meant to ; punish the guilty, but
the 'innocent had suffered. < It wasi but
another life lost in vain,
He saw Japanese soldiers running towards
him, but Parfen did not move; he no longer
wished for anything. He heard the report
of a rifle, and something hot hit him in the
side. He sank on to the snow, falling beside
the dead man.
The Japanese pushed him away with their
feet, and, carrying the dead soldier, departed,
Fragments of thoughts still drifted through
Parfen’s mind. He thought he could see a
woman’s face quite close to his.
“Agafya!” he wanted to cry out, but the
words would not come. Then he heard some-
body whispering in his ear:
“You are a fool, Parfen, fighting for yellow
heathens”; and Parfen knew it was Pela-
geya and not Agafya.
He wanted to look into her face, but her
features were too indistinct. lie wanted to
say something, but suddenly the face of the
woman seemed to melt away, and in its
place was the face of the dead soldier.
“We have died in vain,” the face was say-
ing. “All in vain,”
Then it grew dark, very dark.


Ask for
\pNw
&■*
a h(f
A* r? M
ScotZOlhi-
nrcaHums
ESTABLISHED 180 7,
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding qualify. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
D.tJtM°CALIUM LZJS EDINBUR OH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF Me CALL UM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2&21BB, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/.; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/.; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
r
v'
**
o
o
0°
e
9'
..**'
.Arf*#* 8,
A^o@-
#•
C"\-'>-V v ’ i


Mfflfflmm
mm
■
nil
mm
mmm.
mmm
llfll
iiilpllp
iiiiiiPi
-
HH
mm
mm
?>• -i
*
=:
tfPII
| s V<s
. ✓ >v
3
: ■ : :\
%
9
’
«9
:•:*:% ' s ' j
llilflUll
&
m m
<
•S*SS:S
AS OU R'TRADE
MARK
rt
*
;
P
«
iiiiii
O
i
BOTTLED. BY
ROBERT PORTER & CO,/
W/s LONOON.ENGLAND^
The“BullDogl
K^LGATiy
■<
iillll
' *\
m
mm
m
mmmm
..;, .. 1 .
............ J
M
pr
ill
>-
.
:
ly llp©©
©yiiiNiNim
HERE is no more
palatable com-
bination of a drink
and nourishment
than “Bull Dog”
Guinness Stout.
Every cream-
crowned glass of the
renowned Dublin
brew retains the
qualities that spread
the fame of
“Guinness” when
bottled under the
“Bull Dog” brand
mmw.
■*
wcoea
