

-HILL
PROPRI CIARY C^L”
i Mine o\vners-Ir°r £ SveeiMAsters
MAnuiActurers^
S
m
E
■u.'Sifai
m
rr
a "n’t**
ii*
m
i
;
C 52
'3l
-&A
mm i
w
- -• •
«»
i
£2
Blooming
Mill.
W«,\yca.sr»®
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
422 Little Collins Street.
Telegrams arid Cables: “Herriatite,” Melbourne.
Branches; SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON
WORKS:
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.
IRON KNOB, S.A.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
DEVONPORT, TAS.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
BRIDGE and SLEEPER PLATES
BEAMS—CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES—TEES
LOCKING BARS
JOINT RING BARS
SQUARES—ROUNDS
FLATS—OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEEL
PIG IRON—INGOTS
BLOOMS—BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR—TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
SUBLIMED NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
WIRE PRODUCTS
Manufactured at the Works of
RYLANDSBROS. (Must.) LTD.
NEWCASTLE.
FROM B.H.P. STEEL.
Steel Wire. classes and
grades for manufacturing
purposes including Galvan-
ised, Bright and Coppered,
Spring, Nail, Welding, etc., “Waratah” Brand
Black and Galvanised Fencing
Wires “Waratah” Brand
(Waratah Tyeasy 12501 b. 8.5.)
Wire Netting.—Rabbit and
Assorted . “Waratah” Brand
Hinged Joint Fence “Waratah” Brand
Motor By-Passes “Waratah” Brand
Barbed Wires.—“lowa” or
“Waukegan” Pattern ..... “Waratah” Brand
Nails “Waratah” Brand
Clothes and Guy Lines “Waratah” Brand
Fencing Posts.—“ Star” Pattern
B.H.P “Waratah” Brand
Flexo Droppers “Waratah” Brand
For all classes of Wire Products specify
“Waratah” Brand.
MANUFACTURED AT THE
e
The Bulletin
Of-ikb •
Vol. 53.— N0. 2730.
Wednesday, June 8, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


("NUB. Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
w with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I 111!
U&2*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Con-espondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
plea *e send without obligation, your New p rM
IPpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainin'*
your Muscular Movement System of Writina as
advertised in, the Sydney Bulletin.
My Xame .■,
My Address
S.B. 332
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Limits and Renewals
By RUDYARD KIPLING.
[Dominions Edition.
“Mr. Kipling holds his place among the lords
of narrative. If his inventions are not quite 1
so many as of old, life’s handicap is still
gallantly carried and the day’s work done with
the skill of a master craftsman. 1 ”
Voices from the Dust
' By JEFFERY FARNOL. Illus-
trated.
[Dominions Edition.
A series of 1 3 stories, closely inter-
related in theme and personages, be-
ginning in the days of the Roman
occupation of Britain, and enacted
against such historic backgrounds as
Westminster Abbey, the Tower,
Whitehall, the Thames, Whitefriars,
Smithfield and Hyde Park.
EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW VOLUMES.
The Fountain
By CHARLES MORGAN. Over
30,000 copies sold.
“As one reads, one forgets everything. ~ .
eiichanted.... fascinated.— J. C. Squire in the
“Daily Telegraph.’ 1
The Saint and Mary Kate
By FRANK O’CONNOR,
That he is born to be one of our major
novelists, I am sure as I am of sunrise or
sunset.... No connoisseur of the novel should'
miss ‘The Saint and Mary Kate.’ ”
—Gerald Gould in ,//- “Observer.’*
The Odyssey of Euphemla
Tracey
By RICHMAL CROMPTON.
“It is a triumph for the author to have made
such an irresistibly attractive character of a
middle-aged, very ordinary woman.”
_ —The ‘'Scotsman. ■*
The Bud of the Spring
By MARY FRANCIS McHUGH.
... .“an imagination far beyond the ordinary.
.... It is one of those rare books which one
honestly feels privileged to have read.”
— L. A. G. Strong in the “Spectator.”
Two Silver Roubles
By ESTHER SALAMAN.
This book is bhsed upon .the
writer’s experiences in the Russian
Revolution of 1917 and the civil war
that followed.
7o bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN &~CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
CUTICURA
For Rashes
Eczema
and All Forms of
Itching, Burning
Skin Irritations.
Bathe with
Cutieura Soap
' Anoint with
Cutieura Ointment
Relief comes at once and \
healing soon follows.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Sample =
each ftee. Address: R. Towns&Co., E
Sydney, N.S.W. E
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d. E
'SfoiCSicxicJ, Stajpe.
& Sc*.e&n ?Krtc4, fagcS ftr
££e S^trC&J.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
.ON SALE ALL STATES €>>
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated'
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially-
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 54a Titt Street, Sydney; or
11)3-05 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
that the soundest
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH'’
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
Thfe Brisbane Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!'
Competition in business is too keen and the
Struggle too tense - to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of card
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who nave tried and
know . Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise'
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to—
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WQMFMI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Ilep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE
•2 HUNTER STREET.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Haloed Heroes
When Thackeray wrote his Novel with-
out a Hero, he set an example which, un-
fortunately for English literature, was not
to be followed to any extent for over half
a century. Meredith, Hardy and one or
two more dared to tell the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, about some of their
favorite characters, but, as a rule, the
Victorian and Edwardian novelists main-
tained a wary silence concerning important
aspects of human nature. It pleased the novel-
reading class, w r hich is chiefly composed of
elderly men anxious to forget the weak-
nesses they were guilty of when the blood tan
hot in their veins, *md girls and women who
like to believe there is a dream-man some-
where over the horizon who is entirely
different from the imperfect males of their
acquaintance. But it did a lot to perpetu-
ate the Continental theory that the British
are a nation of humbugs, and it is largely
to blame for the post-war reaction against
respectability which has resulted in a
stream of novels like “Vile Bodies”—brilliant
libels on life which present society as com-
posed almost exclusively of cretins. Mean-
while a number of excellent writers—liter-
ary Bourbons who have learned nothing
and forgotten nothing—are sticking vali-
antly to the old tradition. The works of
three of them are reviewed below.
The Dermotts Again
Stephen McKenna’s The Way of the
Phoenix (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.) con-
tinues the adventures of Tony Dermott
from where they left off in “Dermotts
Rampant,” which was discussed on this page
last year. He is still passionately in love
with Lady Rhoda, the wanton daughter
of the Duke of Stroud, and still preserving
his virtue in face of her efforts to destroy
it. Their engagement i s broken off, and she
marries Captain Swallowfield, with whom
she has been living, but she still hankers
for Tony, as he does for her. The marriage
crashes after six months. The war begins,
and Swallowfield is killed. Tony arranges
to marry Jean, though he doesn’t care for
her and she has a lingering affection for
the shell-shocked husband whom she is
divorcing: and he continues to yearn for
Rhoda, and she continues to yearn for
him. The lovers are approaching middle
age, and the book is nearfy over, when
Michael Dermott expresses a sentiment ■in
respect of Tony which will already have
occurred to the average reader:-
“I’m blest if I can make you out, old son. Have
you ever had an .affair with anyone in all your life?
Well, why not? I'm only asking' for information.
Aren’t you interested? Are you shy about it? Is
it high moral grounds?”
When passion-worn Rhoda eventually wins
him he goes to her as chaste in thought
and deed as on the day of his birth. He
has never known any form of human weak-
ness. And he is an eminent novelist!
Wretched Are the Meek
George Caledon, the hero of The Visiting
Moon, by Margaret Rivers Larminie (John
Lane; 7s, fid.), is as hard to swallow in the
capacity of husband as Tony Dermott is
in that of lover. He thinks the world of
his wife, though she treats him abominably;
and on learning that she has a lover, he
decides, unasked, to supply her with the
grounds for divorce which the law requires
in England. He meets Laura Starr—clever,
attractive, affectionate, everything his wife
isn’t—who also wants a divorce, and they
arrange to spend a week-end together. They
occupy the same bed at a seaside hotel, and
go on living together in London because
she has nowhere else to go. But in all
innocence. Though Laura has fallen in love
with him, and shows it, and though he likes
her and has lost all hope of winning back
his wife, his conduct never, as the saying
goes, oversteps the bounds of decorum.
After the affair has gone on for some
months, and his mother, sister and brother-
in-law (all well and knowledgably-drawn
characters) have got to know and like
Laura, an uncle falls ill, and it seems likely
that he will inherit the family baronetcy.
He lets himself be whistled back by his
wife to this sort of thing:—
“My dear,” he said, “there’s hardly a moment
since I left you when I wouldn’t have come back if
you’d asked me.”
Grace allowed herself to be kissed; and Caledon,
conscious of coolness on her part, guessed that she
was not yet quite comfortable about taking his kisses
after having been, as he must assume, considerably
kissed by Hugh Maitland during the last two months.
She continues to be kissed by Maitland.
Caledon finds out, and reproaches her. Then
he apologises:—
He sighed, and looked at his clasped hands, hating
to see the enmity in her face. “My apology, I sup-
pose, was for having
told the truth... . Yet
even 50....1 think it
must be best not to
try and build up any-
thing on deception or
lies.”
Grace said,' with un-
yielding hostility, “The
only lies I’ve told were for your own peace of mind. I
thought it Would make you unhappy to kriow I
was still seeing Hugh, so I told you I shouldn’t
see him any more. And I thought you’d be happier
if you thought I wasn’t taking you back merely out
of duty—so I let you think that.”
Laura gets him in the end; but it is impos-
sible to picture them satisfactorily married.
His rightful place is the cloister.
Epic of the Sea
The Survivors, by Francis Sibson (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.), is a worthier effort than
either of the others. It breaks entirely
new ground. A British and an American
liner are present when a new continent
rises out of the Sargosso Sea. It takes
imagination, the gift of words, and a vast
amount of technical knowledge to handle
a situation like that, and the writer of this
absorbing first novel has them all. The
General Longstreet steamed right over the
first submarine eruption:—
When, a second or two later, the red blaze of the
uprising lava glowed through the steam there were
none left to see it. Death had touched them on
the shoulder and they were not.
Swift as it was, the action of the Chief Officer,
on the bridge, had been swifter still. The upheaval
had barely lifted her when his hand closed on the
ipvitch—the master-lever which controlled the whole
system of watertight doors. He flung it over and
died. •
Only two are saved—Joan and Woodrow,
the Second Engineer. The Captain of the
cruiser has time to realise what he is in
for. “Earthquake wave coming!” he shouts
to Lieut,-Commander Fennlake. “Turning
to face it —conning tower only place—
bridge’ll go to blazes! Get below, damn
you— below with you!” He saves the
Maple Leaf and her 600 officers and men
and loses his own life after experiences
which make those of the skipper in
“Typhoon” appear commonplace by contrast.
The descriptions of a world in travail are
masterly, and the dramatic interest of the
upheaval is sustained to the end, but the
characterisation is weak. Fennlake, the hero,
is straight out of a nautical melodrama. He
is struggling back to safety with Joan;
her feet are “in shape so dreadful that he
feels sick at the sight of them”; Wood-
row is “a walking skeleton”; and “for most
of the day they lie in semi-conscious
stupor.” Yet in the midst of their agonies
he can prose at the unfortunate girl like
this:—•
“There ought to be enough people who can see
the childish, pitiful foolishness of it [the social
system] and want to put. -it straight. ;.. Toe H., and
people like that. They have seen it Oh, there’s
work to do ashore all right—if you can only get
a job to keep you while you’re doing the work.
That’s the trouble, of course.”
Members of the Silent Service are often
without fear, and sometimes without re-
proach, but it is hard to imagine one who
is also so completely without, tact as this
Lieut.-Commander. The Survivors is that
fairly common phenomenon, a fine, almost
a great, novel spoiled by a few of the stagey
and priggish people in it.
RED PAGE.
Art and Morals
Bouquet of protests against F. D. Davison’s
sentiments (R.P. 25/5/’32): —
“0. de V.”:
Mr. Davison appears to be tainted with wowserism,
a fatal weakness in a critic. The Sydney plays he
objects to would have slipped into oblivion, with
perhaps a few inches in the news columns, had not
a Governor’s wife stalked out of the auditorium;
refused any explanation to the producer and venti-
lated her displeasure in the press. Asa result, a
newspaper printed one of the “objectionable” plays
in its eoliimns in full, and the gist of the remarks
that reached me from readers amounted to surprise
at anyone finding fault with it—from a moral point
of view.
As for “No Robbery,” the author’s mistake was
not that he wrote a ' modern play about modern
young married people, but that he didn’t make
it sufficiently clear to those who must have every-
thing ticketed that the standard of morality was
that of London or Paris. Sydney’s standard seems
to be that of Zenith City. Mr. Davison also
suffers from lack of perceptiveness. He was appa-
rently so shocked that he missed the entire point
of the play. He says “the author shows no aware-
ness that anything was wrong.” On the contrary, the
author showed clearly that he thought the principle
of the “conjugal swap” was all wrong.
What does the public demand of a play? A
sermon on morals, or entertainment ? Which are
more patronised, the churches which open once a
week and are free, or the theatres and talkies
which open on the other six days and charge for
admission ? The answer is obvious, but it is equally
obvious that if the two can be combined so much
the better, and from that standpoint “No Robbery”
should have been higher on the list. The dialogue
is crisp, and the language, though frank, i s devoid
of the leering suggestiveness which characterises most
ë


“TRUTH in ADVERTISING”—The Conscience of Business.
THE SENIOR STORE"
99
ē
WOOLLEN WARMTH FOR WINTER MONTHS
' Y ’’‘Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the
snares of Winter. Made of selected, long-staple, pure woollen
yarn, *“Jumbuk” Woollen Underwear is subjected to a special
shrinking process that guarantees non-shrinkability in each and
every garment. The soft down-like surface of the fabric is
faultless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin. The elastic
texture gives easily to every movement of the body; there being
neither “drawing” nor “pulling” to cause discomfort.
*“JUMBUK” Underwear can only be obtained at Anthony
Horderns’, and combines economy with warm comfort.
For MEN
*9
*■ w
No. 220—*“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light weight.
Sizes, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves—
-6/9 7/- 7/6 8/- 9/-. 10/- 11/- 12/- 13/-
Underpants—
-7/9 8/- 8/6 9/- 10/- 11/- 12/- 13/- 14/-
Trunk Drawers—
-7/6 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/9 10/9 11/9 12/9 13/9
No. 330—*“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Medium
weight. _ „ ", '
Sizes, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves—
-10/3 10/6 11/- 11/9 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6
Underpants— '
11/3 11/6 12/- 12/9 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
Undershirts with long sleeves, 1/- extra.
No. 440 *“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Exact
warm winter weight.
Sizes, inches ' ' '
34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves—
-12- 12/6 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/6 17/6 18/6
Underpants—
-13/6 14/- 14/9 15/9 16/9 18/- 19/- 20/-
Undershorts with long sleeves, 1/3 extra.
*“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets. In Cream all wool.
No sleeves. Bound braid around neck and armholes.
Sizes, 34in to 44in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 4/11
( Mercery—Ground Floor, George-street. iVe pay carriage.)
For BOYS
No. 220—*"Jumbuk” Natural All
Wool. Light weight.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 2B 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves—
4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/-
No. 330 —*“Jumbuk” Natural All
Wool. Medium winter weight.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves—
-4/6 4/9 5/- 5/9 6/6 7/3 8/-
No. 35—*“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and
Cotton. Light weight.
Sizes, inches
20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves
3/3 3/6 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 5/3
No. 25—*"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and
Cotton. Warm winter weight.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves—
-4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/6
Boys’ *”Jumbuk” Trunk Drawers.
Light weight Natural Wool and Cot-
ton. ' Sizes, inches, waist-
24 26 28 30 32
3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 5/3
Boys’ *“Jumbuk” Trunk Drawers.
Light weight Natural All Wool.
Sizes, inches, waist —■
24 26 28 30 32
4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/-
Boys’ *“Jumbuk” Combinations. Natu-
ral All Wool. Light weight. Half
sleeves; knicker length.
Sizes, inches, chest—
-24 26 28 30 32
Prices —
6/9 7/3 8/3 9/3 9/9
( Boys’ Mercery — Second Floor. We pay carriage.)
For GIRLS
“Jumbuk” All-wool Combinations for
Girls'. Warm, @oft and cosy for
chilly winter_days. Featured with high
neck ■ and'short sleeves.
Sizes, inches—
,2o .- 22 24 26 28
Anthony Horderns*
Prices, 5/11 6/6 6/11 7/6 8/6
“Jumbuk”- All-wool Vests for Girls.
Made .with high neck and short sleeves.
Natural shade.
Sizes, inches— 1
20 2-2 ,24 26 28 30 32
Anthony Horderns’ Prices —
3/11 4/6 4/IT 5/6 6/6 6/11 7/11
In Cream. High neck, short sleeves.
Sizes, inches —*
20 22 24 26 28 30
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-3/11 4/6 4/11 5/6 6/6 6/11
(Girls’ Underclothing—Third Floor
We pay carriage.)
MAIL YOUR ORDER.
You are no further from Anthony Hor-
derns’ than your nearest letter-box, and
your order will be promptly executed.
So order now!
For WOMEN
m
o-
N
, • %
■y :
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Combinations.
Medium weight. In Cream or Natural.
H.N.S.S.: W. 13/6; O.S. 14/6; X.O.S. 15/6
H.N.L.S.: W. 14/6; O.S. 15/6; X.O.S. 16/11
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Combinations.
Heavy weight. In Natural and Cream.
H.N.S.S.—
W. 16/11; O.S. 18/11; X.O.S. 19/11
H.N.L.S.—
W. 17/6; O.S. 19/6; X.O.S. 21/-
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Cashmere
Bloomers. All wanted shades.
Anthony Horderns’ Price—
S.W. W. O.S. X.O.S.
5/11 6/6 7/3 8/3
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Vests. In
Natural and Cream. Medium weight.
H.N.S.S. :W. 7/6; O.S. 8/6; X.O.S. 8/11
H.N.L.S.: W. 8/11; O.S. 9/11; X.O.S. 10/11
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Vests. Heavy
weight In Natural and Cream.
H.N.S.S.: W. 11/3; O.S. 12/6; X.O.S. 14/3
H.N.L.S.: W. 12/6; O.S. 13/11; X.O.S. 14/11
*“Jumbuk” All-Wool Woven Vests. V.N.N.S.
finished shell stitch edging neck and arms. In
Cream, O.S. X.O.S.
Anthony Horderns Prices 7/6 8/6
( Department—Third Floor. We pay carriage.)
«v
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
A 3 NQAS
'Phone: M 240 1
Day and Night.


A POLICY THAT WILL SAVE
THE STATE!
A MESSAGE of HOPE and
CONFIDENCE
The Stevens Government brings a message of hope
and confidence to those who have suffered under Lang
Rule. Stevens will bring relief to all who are workless
and in distress, and make the State happy and safe for
you and your children. Only Honest Government can
triumph over the troubles of to-day. Honest Government
is your only salvation.
Where Lang Rule destroyed—Stevens will rebuild.
Where Lang offered “doles” to the unemployed—Stevens
will find them work. The people can put their trust in
Stevens, whose policy is summarised in the following
message:—
“Every man put back into a job adds to our productive Wealth ,
and that , in turn, finds Work for others
Never in the history of British people has there
been a more vital election than this. It will decide
whether Honest British Methods of Government, with
Peace, Freedom and Employment, shall triumph over
“Red” Doctrines of Repudiation, Socialisation, Strife
and Revolution.
mnongHH
■■l
■9
mm
MMmmm
m
m
'V
mm
111 m
M
WHAT STEVENS STANDS FON
1 A fair deal for the worker. Employment and wages under
■ 1 Arbitration Court conditions. No departure will be made
from the established principles of control by Arbitration
Courts.
2, Stevens will create unity among citizens and organisations,
and will co-operate with the Commonwealth and other
States in a policy of Reconstruction.
4,
; Government Expenditure will be reduced in order that
1 additional money may be made available to stimulate
productive industry, and in this way provide employment.
Honesty in Public Finance will be restored and the good
name of New South Wades re-established. The first proof
of this policy was the securing of £600,000 for the
employment of 30,000 workless, and the prospect of
another £600,000 almost immediately the Stevens Govern-
ment is returned.
5, Protection for the home buyer, time payment purchaser
and farmer, by a three years* extension of the Moratorium
Act. Under Stevens the debtors of the Crown who were
deprived of any relief by the Lang Government, will be
given the benefits of the Moratorium and will also be
included in the Reduction of Rents and Interest Acts.
Pensions, Endowment, Food Relief and other Social
Services deliberately and unnecessarily stopped by the Lang
Government and restored by Stevens, will be regularly
paid. Already the Stevens Government, by a policy of
honest administration, has made up all overdue payments
withheld by the Lang Government.
The people will be freed of the menace of socialisation
and given freedom to live and work according to true
principles of British and Australian citizenship.
The Legislative Council will be reformed so as to make it
a representative and efficient House of Review.
The creation of an Economic Council that will make a
complete study of New South Wales industries and resources
in order to bring back work, wages and prosperity, and to
give security and confidence to all.
A GOVERNMENT THAT FOLLOWS THESE PRINCIPLES MUST SUCCEED
Work and Vote for
UNITED AUSTRALIA
PARTY CANDIDATES
You must number all candidates in
the order of your choice.
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


•Sn,
ire'
tr >
3.
<*Hs(Ch
it&MjQMur.
a U*<jH(tOu„<lSo '»°' l
ia*
ESTABLISHED 1807
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
nrcanums
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
D.tJM°CALLUM IZB EDINBURGH,
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane ; Gibbs,
Co., Adelaide; Lionel Samson and Son, Fremantle; Macfarlane Bros.
Hobart ; Thomas Brown and Son, Ltd., Townsville and Rockhampton
Australian Breweries, Ltd., Cairns.
Bright and
and Co.,
Northern
10,000 RECIPES, FORMULAS
AND PROCESSES
HENLEY'S-
NTJETH CENTURY BOOK OF
TEN THOUSAND
pprocesm
i
> s
o
4we im snor*: m<3-tp RV an d ,ho me .
Thousands of Hitherto Unpublished Secret
Processes and Formulas are now made avail-
able. Many a fortune has been built on a
good formula.
Price 26/-
POST FREE
HOWTO MARE
Adhesives and Alloys for
Every Purpose
Battery Fillers and Solu-
tions
Beverages—all kinds
Brass—Refinishing and
Renovations
Cement Fillers
Cleaning Preparations
Cosmetics
Chromium Plating
Dandruff Cures
Hair Restorers and Tonics
Dentifrices
Dyes
Electroplating
Essences and Extracts
Freezing Mixtures
Glazes
Inks of AH Kinds
Insecticides
Lacquers
Laundry Preparations
Leather
Lubricants
Mirrors
Ointments
Paints
Paper
Perfumes
Photography
Polishes
Soldering
Varnishes
Waterproofing, etc.
and thousands of other Prac-
tical Tested Methods of doing
things.
800 PAGES, 10,000 RILCIPE.S
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
” x Days. The laughter of the audience was spon-
aneons and the final applause was greater than that
accorded any other play during the evening.
I agree with Mr. Davison that a survey of the
y e plays provides a lesson for writers, but my
< eduction differs from his. If writers concentrated
more on providing entertainment and less on a
1 1 dactic exposition of their particular creed, they
would find themselves better off. The way of the
i eformer is hard and unfinancial! If the five plays
111 question were each produced at a separate
theatre, the successful one from a box-office point of
\iew would be the one Mr. Davison dislikes most.
Suzanne Reichard:—
It is odd that F. D. Davison should have con-
demned “No Robbery” for its theme, which is by
no means new. Further, the play ends quite
morally. The erring husbands and wives express
a desire to return to each other and have babies
and generally lead lives of orderly domesticity. Had
exception been taken to the somewhat crude birth-
eontrol propaganda it would have been understand-
able. As regards “Hypocrites All!” the author
causes us heartily to dislike all the characters and
eoncludes by branding them as “hypocrites.” Surely
that is sufficient for anybody—one doesn’t want the
moral of a play driven home with a sledge-hammer.
It was this very driving home of the moral that
spoilt tlie third competition play, which would have
been much more artistic had the word “conscience”
never been mentioned. Actually the two plays con-
demned were failures, not because they ignored
current morality, but because “No Robbery” was a
clumsy imitation of West End drawing-room comedy
containing no vital spark of originality, while
“Hypocrites All! ” was stodgy.
I disagree with F. D. Davison’s view that artists
cannot successfully ignore morality. If the stressing
of conventional moral values is to be a. criterion,
then the Sunday-school prize will be the highest
form of art. It is true, of course, that the average
reader likes to have characters neatly labelled as
“hero,” “heroine,” “villain” and the like, and experi-
ences satisfaction if, at the end, poetic justice is duly
meted out. There is, however, a definite tendency
amongst the best modern authors to avoid taking
sides. They prefer to describe their characters’
actions dispassionately—almost scientifically—-and leave
the reader to pass judgment, if he is so minded.
Examples of well-known modern English and Ameri-
can writers who adopt this method are Aldous
Huxley, D. 11. Lawrence, Joyce and even the popular
Galsworthy. Does Galsworthy condemn Irene and
Fleur for their breaches of a certain commandment?
In Colette we have a striking example of a modern
French writer who is widely read and appreciated
even in England, and who yet shows little sense of
conventional moral values. In at least two of her
novels (“Cheri” and “La Naissance du Jour”) her
heroine is frankly a paramour and yet a lovable
and very delightful woman. Colette’s moral code, if
she can be said to have one, is apparently that one
should be generous-hearted and avoid causing pain
to others through any of one’s actions. The point
T wish to stress in her case, however, is that she
is a charming artist, and also, I should imagine, a
financially successful one, and the enjoyment of her
books is by no means limited to a coterie of “moral
imbeciles.”
F. D. Davison implies that we are a nation of
adult infants who would have our character’s labelled
and our stories rounded off with the finality and
satisfactoriness of a fairy talc. In life, nothing ever
is completely rounded off, and evil prospers and
remains unrecognised- more often than not. Why
delude ourselves, through our literature, into think-
ing that things are otherwise?
“M.G.S.”:—
A feature of the moralist in art is that he uses
words capable of all sorts of extensions, but never
lets you into the secret of what extension he would
give them. What, for instance, does Mr. Davison
mean by “a successful artist”? Presumably one who
appeals to the masses. Then Charles Garvice was
greater than Shakspeare. He speaks of immoral
subjects. When is a subject immoral and when
isn’t it? A woman who has ten husbands in a
polyandrous society is regarded as moral, and a
playwright who made her the heroine of his play
und gave her a passport to Heaven would be moral,
according to Mr, Davison’s argument, until his
work was translated into Mr. Davison’s language,
when he would become immoral. If respect for
contemporary morality is the stamp of great art,
it ought to be possible to apply the test to all media,
for all forms of art are governed by the same
principles. What moral code is illustrated in any
one of Rembrandt’s self-portraits? Or in Rodin’s
“Old Courtesan” ? Or in Beethoven’s quartette,
opus 131 ? Or in “Don Quixote,” or in Darwin’s
“Origin of Species” ? “The world and his wife (also
his son and daughter) still pay respect to moral
issues,” says Mr. Davison. What moral issues
and of what period? The moral issues in Athens
in Euripides’ time were different from the moral
issues in Mr. Davison’s suburb to-day, yet “Hecuba”
is still regarded as having artistic virtues.
The Australian plays which have aroused Mr.
Davison’s moral indignation may be bad art. I
don’t know. I haven’t seen them. But if they made
a statement about life and it was true, then they are
as moral as Einstein’s theory of relativity. If Mr.
Davison thinks a true statement about life is bad
art, then he ought to keep out of the theatre. His
proper place is the pulpit, where he would no doubt
get the Ignoble Prize for Dramatic Criticism. He
certainly earns the booby prize for his theory of
aesthetics.
“Let Us Catch Up”
(R.P., 23/3/’32).
Dear Bulletin, —How very true is all
Holt says; and yet how few in this uncul-
tured continent can comprehend the half
he meant. Our art lags very far behind
the soaring European mind; then let our
painters, every man, post-post-impress us
with the plan that germinated in Cezanne.
So may we skip a lap, and be almost at
home in Battersea. In music, too, we are
not fussy; Like sheep we listen to Debussy
and Korsakoff, or worse than those: for
oft I’ve wriggled in the throes of Schubert’s
songs and Mozart’s woes. But, hark—the
distant dithyramb that speaks the soul-
throbs of East Ham! Our bards, significant
as fleas, lisp childishly of flowers and trees;
not knowing they must tune their voice
and each one sink his timid choice to har-
monise with valiant Joyce. Few' guess that
east of Lizard Head Romanticism long is
dead. Then let us ask the Hottentot what
should impress us —what should not; but
if he answers “All things new” I’ll stay in
Askalon—won’t you?
D. L. M. ACEARLANE.
Answers to Correspondents— page 23.
A Satchel of Books
One Man’s Secret, by Arthur Mills (Col-
lins; 7s. 6d.). Ivor Dale, late of Devil s
Island, was a grim being whose face be-
spoke the sufferings he had endured. To
the British Secret Service he was 11. 99,
but to Pearl Melford, a formidable young
woman whose eyes, when she was angry,
“had a trick of turning a cold grey like the
sea in winter-time,” he was the only man
in the world. They won to wedded happi-
ness after experiences which fully justified
her decision, made by the bedside of Gale
junior, that there would be no more members
of the family in the Secret Service.
Rosemary Rees writes with equal charm
about England and M.L. She is particularly
good at catching the atmosphere of quiet
landscapes, and her gift gets full play in
her latest novel, Concealed Turning (Chap-
man and Hall; 7s. 6d.), which begins
with a Devon motor tour and ends in
the delectable country around Abbot’s
Pardon. Mystery and romance surround the
careers of David the ’bus-driver (whom
Dulcie loves) and his nephew, Bill, who
turns out to be heir to a baronetcy, and it
all combines to make a first-rate love story.
Slow Dawning, by Eleanor Dark (John
Lane; 7s. Gd.), is an exceptionally well-
written Australian novel. The central
figure, Valerie Spencer, a woman doctor, is
drawn with genuine insight. Valerie loves
Jim, but when he returns from the war he
becomes infatuated with Kitty, who is still
a child, and who idolises Valerie. Valerie
has the poignant job of explaining the “facts
of life” to the prospective bride, and she
performs it with rare tact. The dialogue is
an admirable feature of this book. The
leading characters, being members of pro-
fessional families, use few local expressions,
yet they are unmistakably Australian. You
can hear the cadences of their voices—and
they haven’t a pose between them.
Over the Border, by Victor Keen (Elkin
Mathews; 7s. Gd.), is a novel written by a
Russian Communist about Communists. It
relates how two young members of the party
struggled across Siberia on a secret mission
that took them into the counter-revolution-
ary Far-Eastern Republic. Murder, rape,
suicide and amazing adventure succeed each
other without any suggestion of melodrama.
The survivor of the pair, having lost a leg,
is finally co'rnered and ends his career after
a colossal struggle on crutches against a
numerous and well-armed enemy. It is less
a study of a conventional hero than a pic-
ture of human vanity, but naturally Russia
has decided to accept the principal charac-
ter as the mirror of Communist chivalry.
So the book has run into 500,000 copies, has
been turned into a play by the Moscow Art
Theatre, has been filmed by Eisenstein, and
is well worth reading even by non-Commu-
nists.
“Bridge Magazine of Australia” (Is.). This
new monthly deals with a game which H. G.
Wells in one of his pontifical moments said
could be mastered by anyone with a rudimen-
tary knowledge of mathematics who took the
trouble to apply that knowledge to it. The
number of possible hands at bridge is in
excess of 24,000,000,000,000; any one of the
four players may make any one of 35 calls,
and any one of them may double or re-
double any call. Also the play may be
started with any one of 52 cards —and the
lead is important. There is thus quite a
large field to roam about in, even for a mathe-
matician, and the new magazine, edited by
Dr. F. V. McAdam and blessed, in a fore-
word, by 11. F. Foster, is likely to prove
very useful to all players, however erudite
their knowledge of a very chancy game.
Apparently it is to be the new paper’s
policy to popularise contract in this country
—a big task, since auction is knotty enough
in all conscience.
And a Little Verse
TO F.S.W.
X happy day to you whose melodies,
Soft as the winds of dawn, tender and
sweet
As twilight murmurings, have filled the
street
Of fretted men with song of birds and bees;
Whose puckish quips and mots adorn the
night
As glitt’ring sequins light a drabbish dress ;
Whose wit enriches and whose joyfulness
The darkest days and dullest ways makes
bright.
A thousand joys be yours, and many years
Unmarred by thoughts of that which might
have been,
Untarnished by Old Age’s common fears.
But sweetened by remembrances of keen
And lasting pleasure given. Sixty-nine!
May Age but touch you as it touches wine!
VICTORIA.
PAUL L. GRANO.
WALPURGIS.
“The dead ride hard.”— Burger’s “Lenore.”
The windows of the stars are lit!
What evil pends that thus they light
The strange inn of tlio Infinite?
A million tapers glittering bright—-
Methinks the dead ride hard to-night!
Walpurgis Eve! Make fast the door.
Outside the moon is leprous white
As bones some cold sea-slavers o’er.
Christ, keep our lanthorn-glimmer bright!
The dead, the dead ride hard to-night!
Set swift o’er sill and sliutter-place
That saints may aid whom God requite.
The garlic leaf, the herbs of grace;
Forth of Hell’s lintels, blinding bright,
The hunting dead ride hard to-night!
Heart’s heart creep closer! Nameless things
Are gathering past the guarding light,
With fleshless claws and withered wings
And jagged eyeholes burning bright!
Hark, hark ! The dead ride hard to-night!
The inn of the Unknowable,
Past witch-wolf’s leap and vampire’s flight,
Flames like a demon festival!
A million torches blazing bright
Whereby the dead ride hard to-night!
Red lips my kisses ne’er could sate,
Kiss once again, and then, fear-white,
Whisper with me “God consecrate
Thus our love’s candle, shining bright,
Though all Death’s dead ride hard to-night.”
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


e
è
■
„■
P
1
'V
ym
mm
JURttRC?
3j/iouMk/ioui - and 7 Jo /


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2730.
June 8, 1932.
THE WELSHERS.
“Mr. Beasley, leader of the Lang-planners in the Federal Parliament, says that Lang would have honored his promises if the Courts—including the Privy Couneil
had not given unjust decisions.”
THE WELSHERS: “Don’t throw us into the river, gentlemen. We would have paid you your bets if the judge hadn’t given all the races to the wrong horses and the
stewards hadn’t disqualified the wrong jockeys.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; •Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : SG Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for Goz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY
The question before you is whether John
Thomas Lang shall be returned to power
on Saturday. He has addressed you, and
so have those who are opposed to him, and
it is for you to decide between them. You
are entitled to consider what they have
said to you, but you are not bound to
believe them. It is your duty to satisfy
yourselves first as to the credibility of
these men. It is your duty also to judge
whether the promises made to you are likely
to be fulfilled. If these men or any of them
have lied to you in the past and have
not fulfilled the promises they have made,
you will have to satisfy yourselves that
there is a good reason why you should
believe them now. What are the facts
on which you can judge?
Nineteen months' ago John Thomas Lang
came before you and asked for your votes.
On that occasion he made certain pro-
mises. He told you that his party would
not repudiate the State’s financial under-
takings. Inside six months he put for-
ward a plan with repudiation as its chief
feature. A few weeks later he carried this
part of his plan into effect, defaulting in
Britain while paying in America. He also
promised to give work to the unemployed
on uncompleted public works. He did not
employ a single man. He promised to cut
out the unemployed tax of 3d. in the £. He
increased it to Is. He promised to restore
civil servants’ salaries, which had been sub-
jected to a small cut. Instead, he carried
through a reduction twice as great. He
promised the farmers 7s. 6d. for their
wheat. He did not help them to get
even 3s.
On that record this man’s promises are
clearly not worth anything.
Why, then, should he make them? There
is a reason. IJe wants your votes. He
cannot take them from you by force, but
he may get them from some of you by
fraud. Now, your vote is something you
hold in trust for the people, and you are
bound to take measures to protect it. You
are entitled to remember, to begin with, that
Lang’s policy is a policy of repudiation. He
says he will not honor his promises to pay
others. How, then, can you expect him to
honor his promises to pay you? He pro-
mised you payment for your votes before,
and on one pretext and another he dishon-
ored those promises. What reasons have
you for expecting better treatment this
time?
Examine those later promises. In order
to give you the work that he failed to
find for you in 18 months, he says he will
bring in again his 10 p.c. capital levy on
mortgages. To do it he must once more
come into conflict with the Federal autho-
rity. If he is again, beaten there, he will,
he says, issue 21 millions of currency notes.
He knows that that, too, will bring him
into conflict with the Federal authority.
He says, very well, he will defy the Fed-
eral authority. That means civil war. Are
you prepared to commit yourselves to
civil war? Yet it is the only way in which
John Thomas Lang can cany out his pro-
mises to you. You might reasonably go
through even this worst horror for some
men and some causes. Is Lang such a man?
You have seen that he made use of you
before to gain office and that, having gained
it, he let you down. Is that a man to
inspire you with trust? Is that a man to
follow into civil war?
Some of you have been brought up to be-
lieve it is your duty to your class to vote
Labor. Prima facie, the Labor party has a
first claim upon the workers. It may be
admitted that the miner will be more eager
to fight in the miners’ interests than the
mine-owner will be. But just here a danger
arises. When our Black Brother went out
to catch birds he attracted them by imi-
tating their cries. To destroy kangaroos he
dressed in their skins. To catch Labor
votes, out of which a man can make a
good living, he is not fool enough to mas-
querade as the enemy of Labor. He dresses
himself up in a Labor skin, he makes the
Labor calls.
You will remember that you have some-
thing worth capturing, something worth
stealing. Your votes, if he can get enough
of them, will give a man a seat in Parlia-
ment. If he plays his cards well there, they
will give him a Ministerial portfolio. Now,
either of these jobs is a very well paid
one; but they hold financial possibilities
far greater than the mere salaries. Here
are places in which it would be possible
for corrupt men to make themselves very
wealthy. Take the Mortgages Taxation Bill,
for example. John Thomas Lang says that
it was never intended to collect the tax
from everybody; Ministers would decide
who would pay and who would be let off.
Their deliberations would be in private,
and there would be no appeal. It is per-
fectly clear that here there would be an
opportunity for corrupt Ministers to make
themselves the richest men in the country
by a system of bribery and blackmail. If
a group of crooks wanted to make them-
selves rich in this way, how would they pro-
ceed? Clearly, in the first place, they must
get your votes. Equally clearly, they
would not get them by telling you the
truth. They would attempt to win your
confidence. To do that they would natu-
rally not pretend that they are your
enemies: they would pretend that they are
your friends. And they would do their
utmost to get among them some honest
men, sincere but stupid men, in order to
avert suspicion from themselves.
If John Thomas Lang and certain of his
colleagues had been crooks and rogues, bent
upon bringing off one of the greatest steals
in history, would they not have proceeded
exactly as John Thomas and his colleagues
actually have proceeded? They would have
masqueraded as your friends; they would
have thus endeavored to win your con-
fidence. They could have done nothing
without that.
There is no direct evidence before us that
these men or any of them are crooks. Such
evidence as there is thus far is circum-
stantial. But if you want to protect the
good name of Labor, if you want to keep
rogues from defrauding you of your
votes in order to enrich themselves, you
will consider the weight of that circumstan-
tial evidence. And in that connection you
are entitled to take into account the fact
that John Thomas Lang was lately able to
lend the “Labor Daily” over £13,000 at 5
p.c.; you are entitled also to take into
account that one of the covenants is that
the borrower shall not have the benefit of
any moratorium law.
In considering whether John Thomas
Lang is a genuine Labor man or merely
masquerading as a Labor man for purposes
of his own, you will be entitled further to
take into account his associates. You will
be entitled to note that those Federal Labor
politicians who have won the confidence of
the workers through long years of faith-
ful service are warning the workers not to
be misled into voting for John T. Lang.
The last to take the platform against him
is that fine old stalwart Matthew Charlton.
Under Lang rule in 18 months the unem-
ployed have multiplied, and nearly 100,000
additional people have been driven on the
dole; factories have been removed from
N. S. Wales and capital has fled to Vic-
toria; thus Victorian boot factories are
busier than they have been for years, and
1600 operatives in N. S. Wales are idle.
Thousands of Labor men nevertheless still
ask, “But how can we be disloyal to Labor?”
Has Matthew Charlton, then, suddenly be-
come disloyal? Or does not rather Mat-
thew Charlton say: “My loyalty to Labor
requires me to regard those as its vilest
enemies who would drag its fair name in
the mud—who would associate it with the
Shadier contract and tin hares; with repudi-
ation and dishonesty; with broken promises
and lying statements.”
Yoip cannot be loyal to Labor by con-
senting to be the dupes of Labor’s enemies.
THE ISSUES IN QUEENSLAND.
Ip Queenslanders have short memories and
are blind to what has been going on in
N. S. Wales, William Forgan Smith will
be sworn in as their Premier next week.
The gentleman from Invergowrie is offer-
ing them an imitation of the programme
with which Lang caught so many trustful
people 19 months ago. He has promised,
as Lang promised, local borrowing on a
large scale for “reproductive works”; abun-
dance of relief jobs (“8000 more,” he sug-
gests) at award rates; restoration of the
44-hour week; “extension of the industrial
code to all workers”; “orderly marketing,”
“rehabilitation” and “stabilisation.” The
Commonwealth having become responsible
for State debts, the big local loan cannot
be launched without the consent of the
Loan Council, but that body is to be
put in its place—somehow. Not only will
the gentleman from Invergowrie borrow
£2,500,000 in spite of the Loan Council, but
“provision will be made for local bodies to
sell bonds over the counter for such works
and services of a developmental character
as may be approved”—by him. And the
Premiers’ plan is to be “reviewed.” It
provides, among other things, for a 20 p.c.
reduction of 1929-30 Government expendi-
ture, including wages and salaries, and this
reduction has been applied by the Moore
Government regardless of votes; but a
Forgan Smith Government will set up an
Arbitration Court with power to hand the
20 p.c. back. The Court may be a replica
of the three-headed tribunal on which an-
other Labor Administration placed its
Premier and the secretary of the A.W.U.;
or “Labor” may send for Mr. Piddington,
that eminent essayist being out of a job.
There is also to be increased expenditure
on education, social services, State mining
enterprises, drought insurance and workers’
dwellings, together with a “revision of
freights and fares.” Nor will the blessings
to be delivered by Forgan Smith cost the
taxpayers anything. Rather may they
“look for relief from the burden of taxa-
tion in the direction of a policy which is
conducive to increasing employment, result-
ing in greater industrial activities gener-
ally.” It is to be hoped they won’t get
eyestrain.
Compared with these promises of the
sun, moon and stars, the Ministerial pro-
gramme is humdrum. Arthur Edward
Moore says he will pick no quarrel with
the Commonwealth or the sister States,
but will remain loyal to the Premiers’ plan.
“It is no State plan,” he declares, “but a
national plan. It was needed in 1931; it
is indispensable now. It must be accepted,
in principle and in detail, or repudiated
altogether; every State that falters makes
the position of Australia more difficult and
more unsafe.” Every word of this is true,
and while Moore is in the saddle Queens-
land will not falter. For the rest, he says
his Ministry will govern as it has governed;
the measures it devised to meet the un-
paralleled fall in the national income—
evidenced in Queensland by the fact that
sheepmen will pay this year less than one-
fourteenth of the income tax they paid in
1924-25—will be continued, with such modi-
fications as may be found necessary, until
the situation is no longer critical. He
calls the Commonwealth Statistician as a
witness that these measures, combined
with friendly co-operation with other Aus-
tralian Governments (Lang’sexcepted),have
been beneficial to the Queensland people.
Queensland, the official reports, has the
highest effective basic wage, the lowest cost
of living and by far the lowest percentage
of unemployment in Australia. And it is
the only part of Australia which is adding
to its numbers by excess of immigration
over emigration; in two years of Moore
it gained upwards of 11,000 people in this
way. They were nearly all from N. S.
Wales, where, after 18 months of Lang,
during which eight or nine millions of relief-
tax revenue was distributed at his own
sweet will, only 664 men (exclusive of
Trades Hall heelers) were in relief jobs,
though the registered unemployed number
120,000. In Queensland, as Moore proudly
claims, work of some sort is found for every
unemployed person with dependants, and
help is given -to every single man who pre-
fers to take his chance on the track—more
help than in N. S. Wales, where the tax is
double. And Queensland, under Moore, has
been free from administrative scandals of
the sort that has made Langism stink,
while for the first time in the modern
history of any Australian State the debt
per head has been reduced.
Debt-reduction is an achievement at
which Andrew Fisher would have rejoiced
in his stern way. It was that most ser-
viceable of Queensland Labor leaders who
said that he “hated the thought of giving
Australia an eighth borrower”—meaning the
Commonwealth Government. The present
spirit of Queensland Labor is iso very
different that Forgan Smith castigates
Moore for not spending loan money, while
Pease, his deputy, has said: “If we on this
side had the power to do so we would
reduce the burden of interest payment to
nil”- —not by repaying loans, but by repudi-
ating the debts. What difference there is
between that and plain theft The Bulletin
is not able to see. Surely great Queens-
land has not fallen so low as to endorse
a policy of robbery.
If the decision were left to electors not
in receipt of State pay, the Government
would, for a certainty, be returned with a
great majority. The menace to Moore
comes from the organised Government em-
ployees. There are nearly 30,000 in the
State departments, and about, 5000 more
in the Federal departments; and both sec-
tions are running Labor candidates. One
of their official publications states: “The
treatment meted out to the public service
during the past three years, compared with
that during Labor’s term of office, should
more than satisfy public servants as to the
party to support.” The leaders of the
N.S.W. public-service organisations wrote
and talked exactly in this strain in the
spring of 1930. They are very silent now.
And the rank and file, Reds excepted, curse
the day that they voted for Lang. It would
be a pity if the Queensland public servants
had as bitter cause for regret that they
blindly followed William Forgan Smith.
OUR LEGISLATIVE COUNCILS.
The Bavin Government passed a law
requiring a referendum before the consti-
tution of the N. S. Wales Leg. Council can
be altered. That Government’s successors
said that what Parliament had passed Par-
liament could repeal, and proceeded with
a measure to abolish the second Chamber.
The Privy Council has decided that that
view was wrong, and the referendum stands.
The position thus appears to be that, to be
effective, any bill for the reform of the
N.S.W. Leg. Council must be passed by
both Houses of Parliament and agreed to
by the people on a direct referendum. At
the same time the question of the restora-
tion of the Leg. Council in Queensland is
under discussion; and in at least two other
States the constitution of their Leg. Coun-
cils is looked upon with much disfavor.
So the question, first of the wisdom or
necessity, and next of the composition, of
second Chambers is pushed into the fore-
front of Australian politics.
In theory it is doubtful whether there is
a sure place for a second Chamber in a
democracy. If the popular Chamber ex-
presses the considered will of the people,
any interference by another Chamber is
undemocratic and an assault upon the
people’s right to govern themselves; from
that point of view, if the second Chamber
interferes it is undemocratic, and if it does
not interfere it is a wasteful redundancy.
But practice does not support the theory.
We may get theoretical perfection; but we
also get '& machine of government consist-
ing of very many parts, all human, and all
of them liable to failure at some time or
other. It is true you cannot have two
voices of the people saying different things
at one and the same time. But if there
is only one voice, you are bound to accept-
it; whereas if there are two voices, you at
least know that further consideration is
called for—perhaps even a direct appeal
to the people to ascertain which voice, if
either, says the right thing.
But, while that function of checking
legislation and making surer that it repre-
sents the will of the people would alone
justify a second Chamber, there are others
of importance. The conference over which
Lord Bryce presided in 1917-18 found it
impossible to agree about most matters, but
reached a general conclusion about func-
tions. They could be put into four groups:
(1) The examination and revision of bills
brought from the other House; (2) the
initiation and discussion of bills of a non-
controversial character; (3) “the interposi-
tion of so much delay (and no more) in the
passing of a bill into law as may be needed
to enable the opinion of the nation to be
adequately expressed upon it”; (4) full
and free discussion of foreign policy and
other large questions at moments when
the other House may happen to be so occu-
pied that it cannot find sufficient time for
them. In varying measures practically
all the second Chambers of the world aim
to realise the third function at any rate.
In the methods by which they try to do
it no two second Chambers are in com-
plete harmony.
The old Chartists saw what was the matter
with most Parliaments —certainly their own.
They were too far away from the people.
Hence the Chartist demand for annual
Parliaments. Others, knowing that the
people are liable to be swept by great
gusts of emotion, have realised that a
Parliament consisting of a single Chamber
frequently elected would have little chance
of pursuing a coherent policy. Under a
system of one-year Parliaments members
would be always candidates, and pretty cer-
tain to take short views of eveiything. We
must look for a better way of getting
close to the people, and preferably a way
which will keep the people in a normal
frame of mind. The difficulty is to set up
a Chamber which will derive enough
strength from the people to secure whatever
delay is necessary for thorough discussion
and a decision in accordance with the
people’s real wishes, while still having not
enough strength to cany its challenge to
the popular House beyond that point. In
a Federal second House it will be gener-
ally necessary also that the second Chamber
must function as the guardian of States’
rights.
The most modern of British second Cham-
bers, apart from that of Ireland, is the
South African. This was designed to be
partly nominated and partly elective.
Always the object of nomination is the
highest—to secure for the service of the
nation outstanding men who would be
not at all likely to seek popular election,
and who, being non-partisan, would prob-
ably not get much support, anyway. But
it would be difficult to find any instance
in the world where nomination has not
meant party nomination. In that respect
Mr. Lang did neither better nor worse
than leaders of Governments everywhere.
In Canada Sir John Macdonald appointed
117 members to the Senate, all but one of
them political supporters. Sir Wilfred
Laurier appointed 81, not one of them a
political opponent. Nomination, even part-
nomination, will not deliver us from the
party Chamber.
There are four other outstanding possi-
bilities. The second Chamber may be (1)
elected by the State as a whole in the ordi-
nary way (our own Senate is an example
of that); (2) elected by local municipal
bodies, as in France; (3) elected by the
popular House, as in Norway; (4) elected
by the State divided into a very few elector-
ates, the proportional representation system
being employed in choosing members. The
plan which Norway has followed with much
success will call for very serious considera-
tion; the Storthing is really one Chamber
which sits as two most of the time, and
sets up safeguards against rush legislation.
But we shall probably find that it will suit
us better to follow a plan advised in part
by the reformers of the House of Lords—to
go to the. very people from whom the
popular Chamber derives its authority, but
to get a check upon that Chamber by a
re-grouping of the electors, along with pro-
portional representation, and to some extent
to counteract the effect of the pendulum
swing among voters by sending only half
the members of the second Chamber to the
country at a time.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
When WAS Lang Right?
Lang defaulted to the Commonwealth
Government and the Commonwealth Bank
and his own State Savings Bank, as well as
to overseas investors in N. S. Wales securi-
ties (listed in England as trustee , stocks,
which means that they are to a very great
extent investments made on behalf of
widows and orphans and old and infirm
workers); and liis mob shouted, “Lang is
Right.”
In furtherance of default, he flouted the
Commonwealth Constitution, resisted the
application of Commonwealth law, sus-
pended a servant of the Crown who re-
fused to rebel, placed the Crown itself, as
Sir Philip Game protested, “in the posi-
tion of being a party to illegal action”; and
again the cry went up, “Lang is Right.”
He tried to rob mortgagees (including the
mutual-insurance cos. and estates left in
trust for the children of dead soldiers) of
10 p.c., and said, when introducing the
bill (“Hansard,” page 9266): “The tax will
produce about £7,000,000, which will enable
the State to satisfy the demands of the
Commonwealth in respect of interest pay-
ments.” But in his policy speech, as
reported in the newspaper to which he
lent £13,700 at 5 p.c. (and no mora-
torium) : “With that money we could put
thousands into employment immediately.”
Each version was followed by a yell of
“Lang is Right.”
Lang has been in four Ministries and
has led three. Not one of the four saw one
Parliament out. Returned with a party
majority in 1925, he shattered it hopelessly
within two years, and his faction was
routed at the enforced election. He dis-
missed from his first,' Ministry Dunn, Flan-
nery, Lazzarini and Fitzgerald, and excluded
McKell (whom he had sent abroad to
negotiate a loan) from the reconstructed
Cabinet. Dunn, McKell, Lazzarini, Flan-
nery and Fitzgerald now pipe with the
crowd that “Lang is Right.”
Their boss fastened a quarrel on the
Federal Labor Government, caused it to be
defeated through the agency of his pupil
Beasley, and at the election thus precipi-
tated saw Federal Labor reduced to two
snarling remnants, both despised. With
even greater folly, he used up the oppor-
tunities which an Assembly majority of
20 gave him, exhausted N. S. Wales in 19
months, and is plainly doomed to an even
worse disaster than befell him and his
followers in 1927. Yet “Lang is Right!”
Before he turned on the “bloodsucking
bondholders” Lang was the worst loan-
drunkard of the lot. When he was Premier
in 1925-27 the public debt soared from
£215,331,000 to £240,725,000. He loftily re-
buked The Bulletin for its repeated con-
tention that this kind of thing must end in
a crash, saying, “If the State is to pro-
gress then loans must be raised, with a
consequent annual increase in the public
debt.” When the depression was months
old he refused to believe in its existence,
characterising it as “an invention of the
Nationalists” and “a state of mind.” Then
he promised to end it by means of huge
loans, and, failing to get them, repudiated
—after giving a solemn pledge that he
would never repudiate. But Lang was still
Right.
In a class of his own as a political liar
he is also a champion loser of costly law-
suits. He assured his mob that he could
tax newspapers, that he could get rid of the
Leg. Council without a referendum, that
it was an offence under the Vagrancy Act
to call him names, that he could swindle
bondholders without being responsible to
the Commonwealth, and that the Financial
Agreements Enforcement Bill could not
be enforced; and he has gone down every
time, in Supreme Court, High Court and
Privy Council, leaving immense bills for
the public to settle.
Lang is not Right. He is Wrong—and
has nearly always been wrong. The People
will be Right on Saturday when they send
him about his business.
*
A Good Excuse for a Loaf.
Can we put ourselves on our feet and
march along gaily while the rest of the
world is sitting miserably in sackcloth and
ashes? Must it be a case of all or none?
Obviously a wholly self-contained people,
not trading with any other country, and
neither paying anything outside nor re-
ceiving anything, would not be touched by
the state of the world. Whether trade was
brisk or dead outside its own bounds would
not affect it in the smallest degree. It
would be prosperous if its own harvests
were good and its own people well advised
and diligent and thrifty; the state of things
outside would have a mere academic inter-
est—like the price of whale-oil in Ice-
land to the wheat-grower in Riverina.
Australia is, of course, not wholly self-
contained. But it is more so than almost
any other country in the world. It has
to send away a certain quantity of pro-
ducts to pay a foreign debt and a certain
quantity more to pay for at present indis-
pensable imports; but for the most part
it can make itself happy and prosperous
without the slightest reference to any out-
side people.
And, after all, the amount of Australia’s
overseas interest bill, which is the irre-
ducible minimum of our export require-
ments, is only about 30 millions a year,
whereas the total value of the Common-
wealth’s annual production in normal times
is 450 millions. That is to say, no more
than one-fifteenth of our total production
is required to pay our foreign interest bill.
This means that, so far as this irreducible
minimum is concerned, we are dependent
on foreign markets for the sale of only 7 p.c.
of our production. True, there is a certain
quantity of goods which for the moment
we must get from abroad or do without;
but even if the total reached another 60
millions it would still mean that the foreign
markets would concern altogether only
about 20 p.c. of our production. In view of
that fact, do we not make far too much of
the effect of overseas markets and the
conditions of overseas countries upon Aus-
tralian prosperity? The truth is that if
we earmarked for the public service every
fifth article we produced, the result would
be sufficient not only to pay interest on our
overseas debt but to wipe out the entire
bill for our necessaiy imports!
Suppose we had no foreign trade and no
foreign commitments, what then? It would
still be possible for us to be in a bad way.
The head of a family living in one of the
most fruitful parts of Victoria applied for
public assistance a few months ago. His
neighbors grew potatoes by the thousand
tons and milk by the million gallons. They
could produce almost all they consumed.
Yet in a good season this man demanded
relief. All that was the matter with him
was that he was indolent, a gambler and
wasteful. Multiply that man by half a
million and you would have a poor, de-
pressed Australia even if we had no con-
nection with overesas markets at all.
Still assuming that overseas markets did
not concern us —that we had no trade what-
ever with them—what should we do if,
notwithstanding fertile conditions, we found
that we were a poor and distressed country?
The l’emedy would be obvious: we would
know that too many of us were loafers on
the job. To become more prosperous—
that is to say, to have more goods for
distribution among the community—we
would know that production would have to
increase. Moreover, in no other way could
we become more prosperous. The dole
would not help; neither would the tin-hare
nor the State lottery. Here is a small
island in the Pacific, wholly self-support-
ing, its products bananas, cocoanuts, sago,
yams, sweet potatoes and fish. If this com-
munity finds itself running rather short of
some of these articles, how is the situ-
ation going to improve by billeting one idle
man on every third household and estab-
lishing two-up schools on the beach? Yet
our position is exactly the same as that.
The community runs short of some articles,
and brilliant Governments try to improve
the situation, not by compulsorily increas-
ing the output of required goods, but by
a system of billeting, disguised as the dole.
In further flashes of brilliance they de-
cide to add to our supply of yams and
bananas by establishing tin-hare courses
and the State lottery. All that really
follows from these things is that the
diminished stock of bananas and yams is
shuffled around a bit, and a further few
people are billeted upon the producers.
In plain words, we are making an
excuse of overseas conditions, including
depressed markets, to loaf here and gener-
ally show our own lack of grit and enter-
prise. It would do us the world of good
if we would wipe these foreign markets
clean out of our minds for a time. The
market for four-fifths of our production is
here, and is not in the least dependent on
the foreigner or his depressed prices.
♦
What Labor Did with Queensland
Railways.
A question from up north:—
We had a political meeting the other night and
I based a question on a Bulletin article which
said that from being the most profitable railway
system in Australia, that of Queensland had, under
Labor, become the most unprofitable. I was told
I didn’t know what I was talking about—that the
Queensland railways hadn’t paid for 25 years. When
I quoted The Bulletin I was told that The
Bulletin might have printed the silly yarn, but
it was concocted in Queensland. What are the facts?
Well, the facts are these:—
Labor reached office in Queensland in June, 1915.
It remained in office till May, 1929.
On page 659 “Official Year-Book of the Common-
wealth,” for 1916, there is this table: —
Railways.—Profit or Loss After Payment of
Working Expenses, Interest and Other Charges.
Queensland.
1911- Profit, £45,752 = + 0.16 p.c.
1912- Loss. 280 =
1913- Profit, 38,163 = 4- 0.12 p.c.
1914- Profit, 118,128 = -f 0.35 p.c.
1915- Loss, £417,901 = 1.20 p.c.
Thus, in three out of the last four years before
Labor reached power in Queensland, the State rail-
ways showed a profit; for the four years the net
profit, after paying all charges, was £21)1,763. In the
first full year after Labor came to power the loss
was £417,901.
In the last four years of Labor rule the loss,
after paying all charges, was as follows (“Official
Year-Book of the Commonwealth,” for 1931, page
191)
1926.. Loss £1,586,883 =— 3.08 p.c.
1927.. „ 1,890,362 = 3.47 p.c.
1928.. „ 1,551,831 = 2.76 p.c.
1929.. „ 1,536,864 = 2.64 p.c.
Queensland’s total railway loss in these last four
years of Labor rule was £6,565,940.
In 1914-15, the last year before Labor rule, the
profit made by the Queensland railways was the
greatest in Australia (page 659, “Official Year-Book,”
1916): —
Queensland .. .. Profit, £118,128
N. S. Wales .. Profit, 26,279
Victoria .. .. Loss, 841,717
S. Australia .. Loss, 287,929
W. Australia .. Loss, 25,651
In 1928-29, the last full year of Labor rule, the
loss on the Queensland railways was the greatest
in Australia (“Official Year-Book,” 1931, page 191):
Queensland .. .. Loss, £1,536,864
S. Australia .. „ 1,395,728
N. S. Wales. . .. „ 712,434
W. Australia . „ 178,699
Victoria .. .. Profit, 156,600
Is • the Northern political gentleman satis-
fied; or would he like some more figures?
There are plenty of them.
»
“To Stabilise Prices.”
Sir John Simon, speaking for the British
Government, announced last week that
negotiations have been opened, especially
with the U.S.A., for holding an international
conference “to consider methods to stabilise
world commodity prices”; and an A.P.A.
cable adds that “the advantage of examin-
ing world economic problems in conjunction
with the United States is everywhere recog-
nised.”
For many years gold has been the basis
of our money system; and it has many
for the job—it is practically
indestructible, is in small compass, and
is found almost all over the world, yet
nowhere in very great quantities. Science
has, however, made a change here as with
so many other things. In the seventeenth
century the average annual production of
gold was .91 of a ton; in the next century
it was 1.90 tons; from 1801 to 1840 it was
1.59 tons. Then a great change occurred;
the average for the next ten years (1840-
50) was 5.48 tons; for 1850-60 it reached
20.18 tons. Those figures were sufficient to
throw grave doubts upon the wisdom of
trusting to gold, and leases were drawn up
in that la.st period which covenanted for
payment in silver if demanded. But what
happened afterwards showed even more
convincingly that gold was no longer ade-
quate. From an average for many years of
about five millions, the world’s gold harvest
rose to 31 millions in 1853. It fell to
19 millions in 1883; but by 1915 it was 96
millions, from which point it gradually fell
away as the richest of the Westralian and
S’African deposits were worked out.
Gold, being our standard of value, is
the one commodity whose value remains
nominally immovable. But the plentiful-
ness or scarcity of gold has exactly the same
effect on the value of gold as the varying
supply of anything else has on its market
value. Supply cannot, however, affect the
nominal value of the standard metal (so
many grains can always be turned into a
sovereign); what it does affect is the value
of everything else. Suppose the supply of
gold doubled while the supply of potatoes
kept absolutely steady. The result (assum-
ing that the demand was unaffected) would
be that potatoes would rise in price—prob-
ably double.
Now, in addition to tremendous varia-
tions in the output of gold, the world has
met with another disturbing factor. In vast
quantities gold is being hoarded by nations
which see what an advantage the holder
of it had in the Great War. This hoarding
and sudden liberation has the same effect
as the sudden development and sudden ex-
haustion of many goldfields.
, So the world’s monetary policy produces
tremendous irregularities in price levels.
But this does not necessarily call for the
abandonment of the gold standard; and the
opposition to anything of that sort would
be so enormous as to make it practically
impossible. What is possible is that the
value of gold may be fixed by international
agreement, the value being determined by
the general price level of commodities. This
might mean that price levels would be
lifted, say, 40 p.c. by the simple process
of valuing gold at 40 p.c. less than the
present fixed price. The level at which the
change should be effected would be one of
the toughest problems to solve. Here,
vested interests would speak very loudly.
At present the supply of money is linked
up with the available stock of a single com-
modity—that is, gold. If the available
stock of gold is inadequate—if, for instance,
it has been reduced by hoarding—then the
supply of money (including credit) is in-
adequate. One of the world’s great troubles
is that there is not enough purchasing
power, which means money. If the supply
of purchasing power (that is, money) could
be increased with the supply of world-
commodities, then more buying would be
possible. If buying became too great and
the general price level was thus pushed up,
then the value of gold would be raised,
buying would ease off, and the price-level
would drop. In this way the price-level
would be steadied somewhere near the cost
of production.
It is a problem with many complications.
But it can be solved. And it will not solve
itself. If the nations do not beat it, it
threatens to beat the nations. No better
news, therefore, than Sir John Simon’s
announcement has come over the cables
for many months.
♦
Killing no Murder.
The Premier of N. S. Wales the other
evening made a charge against the late
Minister for Education which cannot be
allowed to stay where it is. According to
the Premier: —
Mr. D. M. Smith, M.L.C., is a teacher with high
qualifications. Mr.-Davies telephoned -to Mr. Smith
and told him he was wanted to come to the Legis-
lative Council and vote for two bills. Mr. Smith
said he would not promise to vote for them until
he had seen them. When he had read the provisions
of the Mortgage Taxation Act, Mr. Smith said it
was pure confiscation and robbery. He told Mr.
Davies he would not vote for it. “I’ll get you,
then,” declared this Ministerial head to an em-
ployee in his department.
If a man attempted to influence a juror
engaged upon a case even of minor import-
ance, there would be an instant demand
for his trial. If it was an employer who
attempted to influence a juror in his em-
ploy, there is not a Labor politician in
Australia who would not denounce him and
demand his punishment. And they would
be quite right to denounce him, and quite
right to demand his punishment. However
bad it may be to attempt to suborn a
juryman, it is infinitely worse, infinitely
more contemptible, for an employer to use
his powers to compel a worker to be false
to his oath.
This, however, is no case of a man being
charged with attempting to suborn a jury-
man. This is a charge against a man of
attempting to bring pressure on a legislator
to vote, not according to his conscience,
but according to his boss’s inclinations and
interests. A juror, under guilty pressure,
may do wrong to one or two people; an
M.P. under such pressure may do wrong to
a million. It is a blow aimed at iho very
roots of popular government.
If Mr. Stevens made the charge without
full authority and proof, he is quite unfit
to be Premier. If, on the other hand, what
he charged is true and can be proved, then
the late Minister for Education is far too
dangerous a person to be at liberty.
But, after all, the worst feature of the
case is the proof it furnishes of the shock-
ing state into which the public conscience
has drifted. The charge was launched and
simply passed by. An attempt was made
to knock a little political capital out of it;
no more. There was not even an indignant
denial.
We have very little further to go before
we shall reach the point at which killing
will be no murder so long as it is done by
politicians.
4
“My People.”
Lang's newspaper, reporting his familiar
open-air pre-election show in Sydney,
proudly notes that Mr. Lang “marched
with his people”; and in his country
addresses Lang himself has referred to “my
people.” A trifle premature, perhaps; still,
the gentleman’s reference to the Governor
as “an assassin,” his threat to have that
functionary sent back to England, and the
extraordinary consideration extended to his
own courtiers might engender the belief
that King John had succeeded King George.
The notorious Donald Grant, after a hostile
meeting at Goff’s Harbor, demanded that
the police should proceed against an inter-
jector, a local timber merchant who is also
a returned soldier with a Military Cross.
Met with a refusal, he threatened to “see
Gosling,” Lang’s Chief Secretary. A month
later the Digger was prosecuted on instruc-
tions from Sydney, and fined £2; he is
appealing. Previously the Newcastle police-
superintendent had apprised Gosling’s de-
partment of a disloyal outburst made by
“Bondy” Hoare, president of the Northern
coalminers, at a meeting held to beat up
recruits for the “Labor army”:—
Evidence is available that Hoare behaved in an
offensive manner and used the words, “People say
‘God Save the King.’ I say ‘God damn the King.’ ”
I recommend that permission be given for proceedings
to be instituted against him.
Permission was not given and there was no
prosecution. Gosling, so prompt to prose-
cute a returned soldier at the instance of
a convicted seditionist, held up the Hoare
papers for 13 months.
The Future of Germany.
“Feng-Shui” draws a parallel:—
There are quaint resemblances between Presi-
dent Hindenburg and his brother warlord, the late
President Yuan Shi-liai, of China. Both were staunch
upholders of their respective monarchies when revo-
lution started. Both were summoned by their
imperial masters in a last desperate hope of saving
the situation. Both were astute enougli to see
that the game was up, at any rate temporarily. Like
Hindenburg, Yuan advised his distracted young em-
ployer to retire while the going was good. Yuan
sat down at Peking with the army and the money-
bags and waited, and in due course the revolution-
aries were obliged to elect him president of the
republic. His one mistake was trying to found his
own dynasty. There was no Chinese aristocracy
which might have supported him, and the Manchu
nobility were as outsiders. Hindenburg, on the
other hand, has the whole of Prussian junkerdom to
rely on; but whether the old warliorse elects to
make himself kaiser or dictator, or recall one of
the Hohenzollerns, depends on circumstances, one
being France’s predisposition towards republics.
4
A Call for Private Enterprise.
“St. George”: National prosperity means
permanent reproductive employment for
the masses. This can only be achieved
through the strengthening of private enter-
prise by replacing in its hands the rights
usurped by politicians and by the return
of Governments to their natural functions
of governing only. The interpretation
placed by our present professional type of
Government on “balancing the budget” is
merely an effort to increase taxation and
to further fortify the policy of Socialism
each Government has adopted. The con-
tinuation of such a policy can only lead to
national disaster and eventual starvation for
the people. All the talk of borrowing money
to find employment for the unemployed is
merely camouflage to cover the want of
constructive ability our various Govern-
ments display, but which is so essential to
Australia’s rehabilitation. It is private
enterprise which should receive and control
any fresh capital overseas investors might
supply to develop the resources of Aus-
tralia and give work to its people.


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
p
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait. Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
Amusements.
T C. WILLIAMSON, L T D.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
KING’S THEATRE: SAINT JOAN,
By Bernard Shaw.
I Dame Sybil Thorndike and Complete English 00.
tatnond Engagement lings
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and. repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write far a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lang split his party in 1927 and split the
Federal Labor party in 1931. The result
in each case was dissolution of a Parlia-
ment which, but for Lang, could have gone
on for another twelvemonth and a Labor
rout at the polls. There would have been
another Lang-caused party split last month
if the Opposition leaders had been placable. A
dozen Langster Assemblymen of the kind
that rails at the Boss in private but cringes
to him in Caucus offered to cross the floor
and support a Stevens-Bruxner Government
Erovided they were assured of U.A.P. and
ountry-party support in their electorates.
Richard Windeyer, K.C., declares that “a
leading Sydney business man” put it to him
that he should help to raise £12,000 for these
patriots. He did not “bite.” Neither did
Stevens and Bruxner.
How many people would lose their jobs
in the panic that would follow the return
of Lang to power in N. S. Wales nobody
knows; but it is very safe to put it at
20,000 —most of them men and women who
met on Sunday to repeat the parrot-cry
“Lang is Right.”
Queensland public servants will park a
large, energetic bomb under their beds if they
are responsible for returning Forgan Smith
on Saturday. The bomb might never ex-
plode if things turn out all right; but
if they don’t turn out all right, and Queens-
land has a lean time, the onus will, for a
certainty, be laid on the public service,
which will then be called on to carry the
big end of the stick.
There is to be no State lottery in Victoria.
New Premier Argyle has made that very
clear. Certain members of the Charities
Board favored copying the Golden Casket,
Irish Free State and Lang gambles to get
a percentage for hospitals, _ but now they
will have to think of something else.
On a tax of 3d. in the £ Bavin and
Stevens were employing 24,000 relief work-
ers when their Government was thrown out
in 1930. When the Langsters were dis-
missed, although they raised the Bavstevens
tax t 0 Is. and had been receiving the pro-
ceeds for 18 months, there were exactly 664
men in relief jobs. During the same period
27,541 persons were in receipt of food relief
from Bavstevens and 113,225 from Lang.
There was a corresponding increase in the
number of women who qualified for family
endowment because, under the Lang blight,
their husbands lost their jobs.
According to Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
the members o’f the Martin family employed
by the Lang Government drew £45 a week
wages, the Graves family the same, the
Garden family £42 a week, and the
McCauley family £5O a week. That
would have been about £9OOO a year divided
among four families if the year had lasted
out, but it didn’t last out.
“There are only two classes in this com-
munity,” Lang said in his policy speech—
“the moneylenders and the workers; the
Lang's idea of equal sacrifice.
A class and the B class.” Which class
would you put a Labor leader in who has
lent £13,700 on a mortgage and has taken
care that it is outside the moratorium law t
The picturesque lie that under the Pre-
miers’ Plan the basic wage would be £2 11s.
Gd a week has been disowned by everybody
who has anything to do with that Plan; but
it is still good electioneering “dope.” Actu-
ally it was arrived at this way. The lowest
Federal basic wage anywhere was taken as
a starting point; it happens to be £2 19s. 6<L
at Kadina (S.A.). A 10 p.c. reduction was
proposed by some committee or other (not
the Premiers) ; take that away and you get
535. 6d. And from that the Lang Is. in the
£ unemployment tax was deducted —leaving
51s. 6d. Evidently the Langsters propose to
take a shilling in the £ of a poor devil’s
wages even though they be cut down to 535.
a week. How. else indeed could they pay
their pets £l5 a week?
Miller, the man who is organising the
Queensland election for Moore, is confident
that the Government will be returned with
40 seats. That would give it nearly two-
thirds of the House, practically the same as
in the last Parliament, in which there were
10 more members. It seems pretty optimistic,
though the Mortgages Tax Bill which
settled Lang has done Forgan Smith no
good. Four Independents generally voted
for Moore. One, Dunlop, of Rockhampton,
is likely to lose his seat. On the other hand
the Ministerial party is confident of taking
Bowen and Maranoa from the Labor holders,
and vows that it will unseat Randolph Bed-
ford in Warrego.
“Well, Comrade Forgan Smith, here’s to
your success on Saturday.”
“Thanks, Comrade Lang, and the same to
you; hut I do hope nobody’s looking.
It would never do for me to be seen
drinking with you.”
Unless a change sets in the States may
have to give up the luxury of deficits. . A
country may be too poor through misman-
agement to enjoy that luxury. The joint-
stock hanks have lent the seven Govern-
ments all they have except some paper money
and ,small change. The Commonwealth
Bank has made temporary advances to the
Governments amounting to over £30,000,000
in London and rather more here, and it
can’t do much more. Even the most credu-
lous follower of Australia’s craziest financier
has probably never contemplated the time
when even Lang won’t be able to afford a
deficit. The craziest financier has probably
never contemplated that aspect of the case
himself.
Maoriland, which dropped penny postage
last March, making the minimum 2d., the
same as Australia, has reverted to the penny
rate, and at the same time has jettisoned a
number of other extra postal, telephone and
telegram charges imposed when the postage
rate was altered. The reason given for the
reversion is a desire to encourage business
and reduce costs ; but, as happened in war-
time, revenue hasn’t been helped as much as
was expected by increased charges—the
Maorilanders are thrifty folk. Incidentally,
the Dominion’s postal, telephone and tele-
graph services return steady profits—■
£402,772 for 1930-31. When the correspond-
ing Australian services show a profit it is
regarded as a miracle.
Charters Towers is one of the Queensland
electorates affected by the redistribution
scheme, Burke and Queenton, both —like the
Towers —long-standing Labor seats, having
been wiped out. Arthur Jones (Burke) and
Winstanley (Queenton) contested the Labor
plebiscite against the sitting member, Wel-
lington, but Towers voters stuck to Welling-
ton, who has long represented the old gold-
field district, where he first came forward
as secretary of the now-extinct Miners’
Union. The C.P.N. party will be repre-
sented by 11. P. Poole, Mayor of the Towers,
and for years one of its leading mining and
business men. The betting favors Wel-
lington.
Whatever happens to the Moore Govern-
ment on Saturday, nobody will be able to
say that it gerrymandered its way to victory
or was cast out because it gerrymandered.
The redistribution of seats carried out at its
instance is the fairest that Queensland has
had. There are 13 divisions (all in or about
the capital) with 10,000-odd electors, nine
with 9000-odd, ten with 8000-odd, 25 with
7000-odd, and five (all spacious and remote)
with 6000-odd. The steepest descent is from
Fortitude Valley (10,S28), a suburb of Bris-
bane, to distant Gregory (6091). Brisbane
itself has 10,792 electors; last time it had
only 5700, whereas there were 12,391 in
Logan, 12,241 in Enoggera and 12,115 ;n
Bulimba. And Johnnie Mullan, the Labor
Attorney-General, sat for Flinders as the
representative of a whole 1693 votes.
Young Mr. Clive Evatt is campaigning
for the Lang-planners, and Lang’s news-
paper—which has suppressed the allegation,
printed in a State paper, that it was pro-
mised whips of advertising by the tin-liare
interest —complains that the capitalistic
press will not report him. Perhaps it’s be-
cause Mr. Evatt’s “Lang Is Right” stuff is
so feeble. At East Maitland he asserted,
according to Lang’s newspaper, that
“motherhood endowment could only be re-
tained by the return of Labor, for the simple
reason that it was an outstanding plank of
the Premiers’ plan that endowment should
be abolished.” This is either sheer ignorance
or clumsy invention; there is not a word
about abolition of motherhood endowment in
the Premiers’ plan. Mr. Evatt’s distin-
guished brother, when a Labor politician,
was much more interesting and effective. It
was he who described Lang as “the biggest
crook in the movement.”
Lang put two British immigrants in his
Ministry—Gosling, the tin-hare and fruit-
machine man, and Davies, who placed the
Government schools at the disposal of the
“socialism-in-three-years’’ crowd for night
meetings. Gosling is being hard pressed in
Kogarah, and Davies in Illawarra, and both
will go out on their ears if they get their
deserts. They grew up in Britain, but this
did not prevent them. applauding Lang's
interest-swindle on their native land when
it was approaching the gravest financial
crisis in its history. Neither did any regard
for their adopted country deter them from
championing the Boss’s repudiation of the
Premiers’ plan and his default to the Com-
monwealth and the Commonwealth Bank.
And from default this contemptible pair
would proceed to disunion; and apparently
Davies would not object if it came to civil
war, as long as his own skin was safe. He
said at Parramatta :
We have one of the finest police forces in the
world. I saw them parade to-day, and I thought to
myself, “Come on, Mr. Lyons, these are the men
who will stand against yon.”
There should be no place in any of our
Parliaments for politicians who are bad
Englishmen and worse Australians.
Premier Hill, of South Aus., is bent on
reducing the number of Assemblymen from
46 to 35, and of Councillors from 20 to 15,
and will bring in a bill next session. He
proposes to introduce proportional voting as
well, but before he makes up his mind on
that subject he had better inquire how it
has worked elsewhere. Victorians are also
talking of reduction of members, but Premier
Argyle is hostile. There are 65 Assembly-
men and 34 Councillors. Argyle says that
if seats are taken away the electorates will
be too big to admit of proper representation.
Considering that some of the North Queens-
land and North Westralian electorates are
almost as large as the whole of Victoria the
contention falls a bit flat.
“The power to make laws will be taken from the
corrupt Courts.” —Lang in his “policy” speech.
MR. N.S.W.: “But what about your policy?”
LANG: “This is my policy.”
Lang put a Trades Hall organiser, an
electrician by trade, on bis Milk Board. To
the Meat Board he appointed Kay, the
Domain spouter, who sold his Parliamentary
seat to Lang for a similar job six years
ago, and Hutt, generalissimo of the Labor
army”; and, removing the experienced Cram-
sie, he made one Scott, a grazier, chairman.
Association with the two mob-orators has
had an unfortunate effect on this gentleman.
Before the Commonwealth election he pub-
lished a foolish manifesto in which he
asserted that the Lang plan had “smashed
the golden manacles from the wrists of pri-
mary production” (it would smash primary
production if the swindled countries retali-
ated, as they almost certainly would, with
an overseas boycott of N.S.W. goods) ; and
now he has come out with a wild attack on
Stevens. These outbursts have made it
impossible for any Government but Lang’s
to employ him. When Lang is licked there
will be a Meat Board which won’t be “100
per cent, political.”
“People suspected of implication in tin-hare and
other scandals have been making preparations to
leave Australia and an unobtrusive watch is being
kept on them to prevent this.”
INTERRUPTED CROOK : “And they call this a
free country!”
A great Communist demonstration is re-
ported from Moscow, where 75,000 athletes,
mostly boys and girls, marched past Lenin’s
tomb. The 75,000 weren’t many out of a
population of 147 millions, and they were
city children who had been reared in Com-
munism and weren’t old enough to know
better —not farm kids from the State’s agri-
cultural settlements. Stalin distributed
prizes t 0 encourage the young Communists
to keep on believing. It was described as
“one of the biggest demonstrations ever
organised in Russia,” and “organised” is the
correct term.
The tale of a harassed farmer was related
the other day in a Sydney court. He farmed
near Gravesend, 448 miles due north from
Lang’s metropolis. li'is wheat crop had failed
for five years in succession ; his wife had died ;
his farm was mortgaged to the Government
Savings Bank and was to be sold on June 15 ;
all the plant and animals had been sold
already. But the Federal Taxation Depart-
ment kept serving him with demands for a
large sum on the ground that he owns one of
those rich bloated estates which should be cut
up for closer settlement, the department hav-
ing a way of inventing fancy valuations which
have little or no bearing on what the land
produces, especially in bad times. Ordered
to attend court in Sydney he said it was a
long way to walk, and he was short of the
fare, and he was elderly and sick, and had a
precarious job carting dead rabbits which
he was loath to leave, jobs being scarce even
if rabbits were plentiful. The case stands
adjourned.
Backers of the Lang “plan” are certainly
getting it in the neck these days. Glebe
aldermen decided to borrow £30,000 for road
work —if they could get it—but had to seek
the ratepayers’ approval. Of 554 votes
recorded, 489 were against the loan. Yet
Glebe was thought to be solid for Lang and
the aldermen are all for his “plan. ’
As tax-dodgers are increasing in Victoria
the Argyles have set up a staff of officers
who were doing little or nothing in their own
departments to round them up. A beginning
will be made with those who have been
evading the relief tax. Acceptance of income
tax in instalments —half-yearly or quarterly
—is also likely.
Speaking in the Domain after his politi-
cal heaven had crashed about his ears, a
Langster compared the dismissal of Lang to
the doping of a racehorse. “Just when our
champion of champions was about to per-
form his greatest achievement,” he groaned,
“someone comes along with the needle.” It
is hardly convincing. Lang has been such
a peddler of political dope himself that he
is not in the least likely to have succumbed
to anything of the sort. Like the boy from
the jam factory, “he works where they
make it.”


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sciens”: Even the expert is liable to
err. Brisbane has been in the throes, of an
anti-mosquito campaign, and health inspec-
tors have been paying domiciliary yisits to
see that the regulations are carried out.
One of these admonished a housewife on the
presence in her dwelling of a tub of water.
THE STOPOUTS.
"Grandpa! Half-past one, and Ido believe you are only this minute in’.!"
“No fear! The cat came in after me, and your mother isn’t home yet!”
The lady explained that it was her bath-tub.
Gazing into its depths, the inspector found
it was full of mosquito larvae. “In that case,
madam,” he said, after noting the size of
the wrigglers “it is a fortnight since you
had a bath ” “Wrong, smarty,” said the
friiimnhnnf dame “it’s three weeks.”
tiiumpnant daum its tnree
“C Q” • The reception to the Mariposa
at Melbourne began as the luxury ship was
warping into the wharf. “Who killed Phar
l apV” rang over the water from the .shore,
“Yew k’n search me, bo,” floated back the
answer from the fo’c’s’le.
«rm, * T isstpninir-Tnspct” • Radio-broadcast-
ers have imitated almost every form of rele-
rant activity to date. They have given us
the wireless political meeting, the daily
newsnaDer the advertisement hoarding and
the school lesson. Now some ruffianly
owner of a private set has produced the
ormivnlpni nf flip snrrpntitious dirtv post-
Steers in
had their ears suddenly affronted by “dis-
gustins solf parodies filthy language and
nnnseatin- P d£?iSon ’’ All this on Sun-
day evening? 6 A few minutes after the trans-
mission a Station with the same wave-length
as the offender was heard explaining that
it was guiltless. Subsequently a laborer of
Prospect was arrested. He is to be sent for
trial? the maximum penalty is £5OO or five
’
y * * * *
“F.1.A.T.”: The only activity of that
excellent body the N.R.M.A. with which I
am out ot sympathy is its crusade against
car-minders. I have been patronising them
for years, particularly when going to shows
at night, and have been repaid as follows:
(1) Space kept between my car and the
one ahead, or behind, enabling me to get out
easily (21 other cars shepherded in so that
they didn’t bump mine; (3) car pushed
when it would only start off the engine; (4)
direction and “all clear” given on wet nights,
Also the comforting knowledge that the
minder was there or thereabouts in the caffia-
city of theft-preventer. And all for 6d.,
which satisfies every minder of my acquaint-
ance I have only used car-parks twice in
18 months. The first time the man in charge
was away and I found my car blocked by a
locked limousine when I came for it; the
second time I found that someone had
bumped a mudguard and broken it m trying
tn straighten it out. The odds against a
bump with a minder directing parking opera-
tions (a thing that seems to be nobody s ,iob
in a car park), are about 1000 to 1.
“Bumpkin” : A record in internationalism
hardly exceeded by a meeting of the League
of Nations has been attained by a schooner
which recently put into Papeete to recup-
erate from a terrific drubbing she got be-
tween Auckland and her present habitation.
She is Maoriland-built, owned by a China-
man, manned by white Shivery Islanders
under Australian charter, and bound tor
a French port with a cargo of Canadian
liquor, to be transferred to an American
vessel off the coast of Mexico, lo clarify
matters, the flag she flics is Peruvian.
* * * *
“Nikko” • There’s a lot in an address. A
visitor to Sydney was given a name and
place and asked to call on behalf of friends
in her own town. Sydney acquaintances
were horrified when they read the address,
and informed her that nobody as was any-
body could possibly live in such a locality.
The visitor, concluding that the home friends
could not be fully aware of the facts cut
out the call, only to learn on her return
that she had been asked to visit a clergy-
man, noted with his family for good works,
who lives fox* pi*efei*enee in the slums.
“Jeames”: The Sydney “English Public
Schools Association” is making a valiant
effort to preserve the Empire’s last visible
class distinction. It used to be a sword.
When swords went out sticks came in, and
for a time none but members of the uppei
classes bore sticks. In England nowadays
sticks are as common as gamps, . and males
desirous of throwing their social weight
about in public express themselves by means
of school, club and regimental ties. An
O.E. (dark blue with light blue stripe),
M C.C. (red and yellow) or Guards (dark
red, dark blue) tie gets the wearer instant
attention from waiters, railway porters and
other tip-chasers. It means money.. An
Englishman rarely wears colors to which he
has no right, unless he is a crook bent on
deception for monetary purposes, lor one
thing, he is always liable to be bowled out;
for another, shopkeepers are chary about
selling the ties of famous schools and regi-
ments to people they don’t know. The local
E.P.S.A. has got in a stock of ties and
arranged with a Sydney haberdasher that
“colors will only be supplied to those who
are entitled to wear them.” A futile pre-
caution. Australians as
sciousness as the U.S.A. Guards ties, tor
example, are popular with our nattiest dress-
ers; my bookmaker s clerk often wears one.
The Americans, by the way, have the germ
of color-consciousness. W. PI. Kelly, ex-
M.P., was on a Dover-Calais steamer not
long ago, sporting his Old Etonian tie, when
a Yank came up and asked if he was an
American. Kelly owned up. . Then what
the devil do you mean by wearing the color
of the Chicago Newts Baseball Club?” de-
manded the Yank.
“F.S.” .' There is a G. B. Shaw story which
relates that the author of “St. Joan” turned
up at a swagger amateur theatre in London
in hfe. usual homers, evenmg-dress
which included a vehet jacket. You ca t
go in in that,” remarked 5? attends£ 1
HI take it off, said Pshaw, suiting the
action to the word and leaving the garment
to «{«».»* ?f the astonished tiuntey. One
of Melbourne’s leading young painters got
the same reception when he tried, to enter
a third-rate Parisian music hall in a soft
shirt open at the neck. “What’s wrong with
me?” said the artist. “You re not properly
dressed, Monsieur, said the attendant,
“Well I’ve just come from the Louvre, re-
plied the artist. Probably in no other city
m the world would the retort have been
understood, but it got him through the
barrier.
* * . * MT . *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides) : “Ibn el Issar”
(B. 17/2/32) falls into a common error
when he cites the Bagdad Jews as definite
proof that the Lost Tribes were never lost
at all. in 9i5 B.c. Rehoboam was pro-
claimed monarch over Judah (two tribes)
and Jeroboam over Israel (ten tribes). The
Israelites were subjugated and taken into
captivity by the Assyrians, 721 b.c. It is on
recoid that they never returned to the Holy
Disaster overtook Judah in 586 8.c. ;
135 years later their conquerors deported the
whole nation to Babylon. At the end of
<0 years a remnant of Judah, under Ezra
and Nehemia, returned to Palestine, 70,000
strong, as “the Jews.” The remainder never
left Mespot. The complaint of the Chief
Rabbi to General McCunn at Bagdad about
the stoning of his people every Good Friday
by Chaldean Christians was logical; but
while his people took no part in the Cruci-
fixion his ancestor kinsmen, descendants of
the repatriated 70,000, did. Thus the idea
of the Chaldean Christians is to stone the
Palestine Jews by proxy, as it were —also
logical, though awkward.
QUICK DISPATCH.
“Did you think twice, Bertie, before you left her?"
“No, girls. Wasn’t necessary. She agreed with me the first think!"
“Dr. Nil”: “Hal” (B. 25/5/’32) can’t be
very familiar with the flora of the Port
River, Adelaide. His “tea-trees” do not
grow in swamps (mangroves do) ; they grow
on patches behind the shore sandhills. Ihe
sandhills may have some native pines cm
them, but not enough to do much hiding in.
And it would take a good runner to reach
any part of the P.R. in an hour from the
G P. 0.; most of it is ten miles away, and
the landward banks are largely occupied by
rubbish-tips and samphire fiats. The best
hiding place in any city is as near as pos-
sible to police headquarters.
“S.T.S.”: The very day after The Bulle-
tin reached Adelaide with that par. as to the
Holy City being an easy place to. hide in,
two prisoners in the dock at the Police Court
made a dash for liberty. Evidently a good
start is needed for success. Not having it,
one man was captured a little way up Angas-
street; the other fell to a Rugby tackle
before reaching the courtroom door.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Instead of proceeding towards
Ballarat, its avowed destination, a packed
race special from Melbourne started a
strange odyssey by turning into a line run-
ning to the railway sheds. If it had been
an electric train it might have passed un-
noticed, but an engine and tender were ex-
pected. A startled signalman promptly
switched it on another track. This didn’t
improve matters, as the new route happened
to be the “up” line from Williamstown. The
stranger’s presence on the track automati-
cally shut off all electric trains, but would
not have prevented it meeting head-on with
any steam train that might have been drift-
ing in from Williamstown or St. Albans.
A few minutes later it reached North Mel-
bourne and was switched on its proper path
without the punters aboard having their dis-
cussion of the odds unpleasantly interrupted.
“Hamer” : Science is
throwing a new bit of
grit into the gears of
the car-thief. When
marks are stamped upon
metal, the impression is
not merely superficial
but goes right through
the body. A method of
etching out imprints of
such impressions, even
after the surface marks
have been obliterated,
makes it possible for
police experts to descend
with a new weapon upon
traders suspected of co-
operating with thieves
The car-bandit is never
theless a hardy ruffian.
Relying on the security
of a new wheel-lock, a
Sydney man left his car
on a rather lonely road
whilst visiting friends.
When he returned a
couple of hours later it
was to find the car still
there, but merely a
skeleton of its old self.
Bandits, unable to get
a move out of it, had
stripped it of nearly
everything of sale value.
“Centurion”: One of the Sydney sob-
papers told a pathetic story of a child who
was visited in hospital by the Prince. The
infant replied to the customary question-
ing that he intended to be a Lifeguardsman
when he grew up. Next morning he received
from the Prince “a miniature Lifeguards-
man’s uniform,” “including Hack gaiters .”
Black gaiters! Was it for this that Shaw,
the Lifeguardsman, routed Napoleon’s army
at Waterloo, or that the midnight charge at
Khasassin or the strategic retreat from San-
nah’s Post were put in the history books?
The great jackboots of the Guardsman are
his pride and joy, in spite of the laborious
job of polishing them. No one else in the
British Army may wear anything like them,
save only the field-marshals.
“Der Jong”: “Biltong” (B. l/6/’32) is
wrong in saying that Lord Dundonald re-
lieved Ladysmith. True, Dundonald was the
first man to enter the besieged town with' his
cavalry, but Buller, as commander of the
army in Natal, was in supreme charge of
all the fighting from Colenso to Pieter’s Hill
which led up to the Boer retreat. In a
purely military sense, the real reliever of
Ladysmith was Roberts; his Cronje clean-
up at Paardeburg did the trick. Buller s
subsequent downfall was entirely his' own
fault. He was a Wolseley man, and as such
bitterly antagonistic to Roberts and his
Indian school. Though his troops were in
fine nick and well supplied, he ignored
Roberts’s imperative orders to follow the
retreating Boers over the Drakensburg, and
dawdled so long over the job that the wiping-
out of the Boer armies became impossible.
He showed much the same spirit after he
did get a move on, and was finally stellen-
bosched by Roberts. He was given a home
command, but hadn’t tact enough to keep
his mouth shut, with the usual result.
“Kerys”: Sydney may have an ideal cli-
mate for biking (B. l/G/’32), but no matter
how good the climate or how smooth the
roads no hilly city retains cycling enthusi-
asts for long. And in Sydney proper there
is no really worth-while level stretch to
tempt cyclists except the traffic-filled George-
street. It is the flat town that holds them.
Christchurch (M.L.) never loses its
cyclists; Goulburn (N.S.W.) is another
place where the bicycle retains its popu-
larity. It’s topographical, not financial, de-
pression that rules the cycling world.
* # * *
“Blackwater”: Still another panacea for
malaria has been discovered. It is called
“antebrin,” and the discoverers are the same
two German chemists who six years ago gave
“plasmochin” to the world with the assur-
ance that it was going to revolutionise
malarial treatment. It was asserted that
plasmochin destroyed the power of repro-
duction in the malarial germs, the intermit-
tent recurrences of this reproduction in the
PROVERBIAL.
“Yes, when Maude first married her young doctor he was
terribly grumpy, but now he’s got lots of patients and
he’s turned into an ideal hubby.”
“I see—one of those cases where practice makes perfect.”
sufferer’s blood being responsible for the
periodical attacks characteristic of the
plague. Antebrin, it is claimed, goes further:
it wipes out the reproductive germs com-
pletely; and, used together, the two sub-
stances eliminate the disease. If so, it will
be a great thing for humanity, especially as
nothing but malaria prevents the conquest
of vast spaces hitherto closed to European
races and scantily-garrisoned even by indi-
genes. But no great benefit has followed
from the use of plasmochin alone.
BALLAD OF VISIBLE VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Crawford played magnificently. Victory was in
sight when the rain came.” — Mrs. Crawford.
The Portuguese are not renowned
For prowess on the tented field;
Triumph their arms lias rarely crowned :
Their surest stay, their safest shield,
Has ever been to seek the rear
When, at the front, things don’t go right.
They bolt, but make one point quite clear —
They still keep Victory in sight.
A candidate for Parliament
May nightly strike a storm of eggs;
A pug collapse, his vigor spent,
And fail at “ten” to reach his legs:
Jack Lang his Plan may eulogise,
And Garden bellow Lang is Right—
Though licked in other people’s eyes,
They still Keep Victory in sight.
Writers on tennis are the same.
Hard facts they hardily ignore,
And on their idol’s losing game
Buckets of adulation pour.
Of collaring a single set
His prospect may be far from bright;
Utter defeat may loom, and yet
They still keep Victory in sight.
ENVOY.
And so with others, small and great.
Crushed by the bludgeonings of Fate.
Even when it’s in panic flight,
They still keep Victory in sight.
N.S.W.
D. J.


“Modestine”: Norfolk Island, like Lon-
don, New York and Sydney, is feeling the
slump. There are fully ten men out of
work. One of them, a former army officer,
hit upon the notion of raffling himself weekly
for £2, offering three days’ work as a first
prize, two for a second and one for a third;
tickets a shilling. The lottery has caught
on. He is a good man with a
pick and shovel, and has become locally
celebrated for skill in digging conveniences
of the old-fashioned kind in country as hard
as the hobs of Hades. There is no sanitary
system on the island.
* * * *
“Harold Ilardupp”: It took a sign in a
suburban smallgoods shop to convince me
that we have actually turned the corner.
It runs: —
As n Mark of Confidence in
Restored Prosperity
Our Meat Pies will in future be 2d. each.
“Tan Ride”: Brisbane is anxious to
acquire for itself an equivalent of Rotten
Row. The idea is to lay out a riding track
HIS MISTAKE.
DAN: “I found her an angel.”
ANN: “Not yourself, surely!”
in Victoria Park, where the public golf links
are, connecting with Gregory-terrace, which
winds along the southern flank of the park.
If anything comes of it, the Council should
appoint a censor of riding kit. Since the
Johannesburg invasion, London’s Row has
lost all caste in this respect. Some of the
people I have seen riding in Centennial Park,
Sydney, have made me feel inclined to re-
nounce my native land. One old gentleman,
observed on a recent Sunday morning, wore
yellow leather jackboots half-way up his
thighs, with enormous Mexican spurs, and
he carried a South African sjambok. As
foT the women—words fail me.
* * * *
“D.J.”: A legend which lias gained wide
credence is that “old men made the war”—
also kept it going after it should have ended
and messed up the peace. Exclude France,
which as an invaded country had special
problems, and you find that all the men
behind the war were young as statesmen go.
In England wise old Asquith was pushed
out to make way for bellicose limelighters like
Churchill and Lloyd George. Australia had
Billy Hughes and Holman, men who are still
relatively young and still have the irrespon-
sibility of mental immaturity. The Kaiser
(55 when the war began, and young at that)
and Crown Prince (32) were inspirations to
Prussian militarism for the first two years.
They were backed up abroad by firebrands
like Germany’s new Fascist Chancellor, Cap-
tain von Papen (then 35). Fifty is the
dangerous age in politics, as it is in busi-
ness. All the recent spectacular suicides
from Jimmy White to Ivar Krueger (bar-
ring the old American who went out leaving
his affairs in perfect order) have been 50-
year-olds or thereabouts. It was the same
a generation ago when Whitaker Wright,
Jabez Balfour, Hooley and Bottomley were
coming to grief amid the wails of their
victims. The English know what they are
about when they staff the Privy Council
bench with such wise old birds as Lord Car-
son (78) and Lord Parmoor (SO). If I
were an Australian dictator and wanted to
keep the country out of a war, or, that
having failed, get it out of the mess on the
most favorable terms possible, I would send
for George Judah Cohen (89), of Sydney,
and Theodore Fink (76), of Melbourne. They
don’t get excited, and they see a long way
ahead. I heard Fink forecast the present
Australian depression in 1926, and describe
exactly how it would come.
■f * * *
“Barangkali”: In the annual competition
for fastest transmission time between Lon-
don and Australia, the medium of which is
the result of the English Derby, the cable
again beat the beam. The result was re-
ceived “via Eastern” and delivered to the
Sydney press just 35 seconds after the first
horse had passed the winning post. The
papers were actually printing the winner’s
name before the placed horses had completed
weighing in.
S.: :]! * :j:
“H.A.L.”: I had to smile at that query
(B. 18/5/’32) as to why Oswald Pryor
always depicts his Cousin Jack miners as
short, sturdy men. It took me back a few
years to the day when I heard a young com-
mercial traveller say, as he looked at one
of Pryor’s drawings, “Well, I know Wal-
laroo, Moonta and Kadina, and I’ve
never yet seen a miner like these there, or
anywhere else.” The owner of the shop hap-
pened to be looking out of the door. “I’ll
snow you one,” he said; and a minute
later a short, sturdy old man walked in and
w T as introduced. It was John Verran,
one-time Premier of South Aus., whose per-
sonal appearance suggests . that he has
stepped straight out of one of Pryor’s
sketches. There is one feature of the Cousin
Jack which is of great interest to ethnolo-
gists—the short tarbrush beard. As bas-
relief sculptures prove, the Phoenician
mariners, who used to visit Cornwall and
Devon long before the Romans invaded
Britain, wore these beards, and it is sup-
posed that the Britons with whom they
traded copied the style.
“Verri”: The
violinist on the
kerb had played
“When Your
Hair Gro w s
Whiter” and
was shaking his
tin money-box
when a stout
lady came up.
She fumbled
over the slit in
the lid of the
box with a
penny and a
two - shilling-
piece. and the
florin dropped
i n. “H e r e.
gimme that
hack.” she de-
manded ; “it was
the penny I
wanted to give
yer.” The musi-
cian replied
that he could
not open the
box, the key
being at home,
and with an air
of finality he
placed it down
and resumed his
playing. But the
lady was not
finished. She
kicked the box
into the middle
of the road, and
intimated that
until she re-
ceived satisfac-
tion she was
prepared to
spend the morn-
ing avenging the
loss of the two-
shilling piece.
The musician,
foreseeing a thin
time if she did,
ru m maged in
his pockets and
managed to collect elevenpence, which he
offered as compensation. It was accepted,
and once more the strains of “When Your
Hair Grows Whiter” arose.
* * « $
“D.” : Sydney “Sun” got some information
from a Lidcombe resident who had known
the Perth swindler, “Lord Thornton,” in
London.
The man came of a good family; he had the
bearing. At times he would appear an obvious
gentleman, top-hatted, swinging his gold-mounted
cane.
It recalls the dressy young Yid’s scornful
exclamation when Lord Robert Cecil was
pointed out to him: “ ’lm a gentleman!
Where’s ’is joolery?” It is hard to say
what a gentleman is in these days of ruined
words, but it is easy to indicate one of
the things he isn’t —namely a youth who goes
about swinging a gold-mounted cane.
* $ *■ *
“Pom”; Rev. Hullah, a Streatham Wes-
leyan, said last week that he didn’t want
his part of London “to become one of Satan’s
seats.” He was opposing the introduction
of a new sporting club. London, so long
celebrated for its piety, is now more heathen
than any Australian city. Outdoor games
of all kinds have been played on Sundays
for years. A bill has just been passed legal-
ising Sunday concerts and cinemas, and
Sunday plays are in the offing. Sunday
dancing is allowed in restaurants and night
clubs. Sunday card-playing, which is barred
in Australian social clubs, is the chief Sun-
day amusement in most London clubs. The
only thing that differentiates the English from
the Continental Sunday nowadays is the
absence of racing on the day of rest in the
MERE PASSING PHASE.
YOUNG HUSBAND (very worried) : “My wife seems to make everything an excuse
for asking for money. Do they ever lose the habit?”
EXPERIENCED FRIEND: “Of course they do, old chap! Before long she won’t think of
wanting an excuse for doing it.”
U.K. And the only real bulwarks against
Sabbath horse- and dog-racing are a few
Liberals and Laborites who depend on what
used to be called the Exeter Hall vote.
“Swop”: Owing to scarcity of currency
there has been a revival of exchange and
barter in Europe. A correspondent of a
London journal was waiting for a haircut
in a Schleswig-Holstein barber’s shop when
a farm girl came in with her quarter’s wages,
six sucking pigs, in a bag. She arranged
with the tonsorial artist to pay one piglet
for a shingle and two more for a permanent
wave. The transaction completed, the lady
left in the direction of the local draper’s
shop with the balance of her pay. The idea
has its points, and many Australians would
sooner see women carrying pigs into shops
than the miserable parodies on dogs so many
of them affect. The difficulty of change
however. Suppose a dress were
bought for a pig and 11-12ths, would the
change be payable in goldfish or a new gramo-
phone record?
•fi *'fi H* ❖
“K.E.H.”: They certainly did things in
style at the cremation of that Ballarat Hindu
if the pyre consisted of three tons of fire-
wood (B. 25/5/’32). When pneumonic ’flu
hit us in 1918 the native regiment to which
I was attached was stationed on the borders
of Baluchistan and Afghanistan—a desolate
region where firewood is as scarce as honesty.
The troops lay down and died in hundreds
without respect for time or place, and the
problem of providing the ritualistic burial
for the Hindus became so serious that we
had to bring firewood hundreds of miles by
rail and camel transport. The deceased Brit-
ish soldier’s account used to be debited with
the cost of one blanket fo’r burial. That of
the Hindu sowar or sipahi suffers a deduc-
tion of the price of one maund of wood. A
maund is 801 b.
* * * *
“Pounce”: A Maoriland Judge lias had a
curious point to consider. A Maori woman
came before him to answer a charge
o f arson, having
burned down her
husband’s house.
Counsel for the de-
fence submitted
that it was no
offence for a lady
living with her
lord to set fire to
their dwelling, pro-
vided no intent to
defraud an out-
sider could be
proved, the pair in
law being one
person. After some
deep thinking, his
Honor sidestepped
the point neatly.
Accused had
pleaded guilty, and
no one had sug-
gested that she
should alter her
plea. The sentence
of the Court was
that she should be
imprisoned for one
minute. There was
no talk of appeal,
and the couple left
the court to live
happily until the
next fire. What
the insurance
people said or did
about it has not
been chronicled.
“Morimoto”: It is interesting to see how
fashions change in the matter of mankind’s
alleged scourges. Thirty years ago it was
the cigarette. Statisticians proved that the
tubular form of tobacco was one of the
deadlv sins and the cause of Western de-
terioration. Then it was coffee, and then
tea, and, tea being Australia's favorite bever-
age, it was confidently prognosticated that
the nation would eventually die of cardiac
murmurs. Now an eminent Englishman says
that “those who fought beside the Austra-
lians in war-time probably would admit they
possessed the finest physique in the world.
The reason, of course, was that the Aus-
tralians were the greatest tea-drinkers in the
world.” He was speaking at the Assam
dinner in London. Assam is an Indian
Province which goes in a lot for tea-planting,
and the British tea industry is in a bad
way owing to Dutch-.!ava competition. Still,
it is not suggested that that has anything
to do with it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Double Cross”: The war between armor
plate and guns is nothing to that between
the prohibitionist police and the racketeers.
It is reported that tyre-bursting tacks have
been placed on the U.S. market. Known as
“bootleggers’ pals,” they are intended for
sprinkling out of the back windows of a
gangster car when pursued by the police.
It reminds me of the time an aboriginal
pedestrian run by some friends of mine tried
to sell a race on Charters Towers. Il’e had
been told not to win, but some of the
smarties persuaded him to the contrary,
liesolving to impress the importance of
honesty upon him, my friends bad the
cinder trhck carefully fixed up with large
drawing pins—he always ran barefooted. Of
course the stewards were in the joke, but
that was easy. The traitor got about 25
yards along his track when he sat down
and tried to put both feet in his mouth at
once. We collected, having laid him to the
limit under the lap.
❖ "r *!- sjc
“Brady’s Lookout” : The first settlers, in
Australia used their heads and made dis-
coveries which, in some instances, we’ve for-
gotten, to our loss. Of Phillip’s voyage
to Botany Bay in 1789 it is recorded that
shortly after landing a severe outbreak of
dysentery occurred, by which several lives
were lost. “But the red gum [of the gum-
tree], being perfectly soluble in water, was
found a very powerful remedy.” It doesn’t
appear in the Australian pharmacopoeia.
TIME SHE WAS.
HER: “Isn’t she well groomed?”
HIM : “Oh, yes. She’s got her fourth husband.”
FIFTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a milestone yesterday
Stood I, as a wanderer might,
Looking on the tortuous way
That has brought him to the height
He has gained; the thought insistent,
Hills he sought have gro’wn more distant.
What a wild and twisted way!
I was fifty yesterday.
Luring hills that gleamed rose-bright.
When the sun of young hope shone,
Stand afar in sober light
Of a day that’s half-way gone;
On my path, to put it mildly.
I have wandered far too wildly.
Cold has grown the old desire;
Vanished is the sweet allure
Of the track, the golden fire
Of young hope, the courage sure.
Once my fool-ambition hasted;
Now its golden dreams are wasted.
These are gone.... but why repent
Aspirations idly lost?
There were flowers the way I went,
Wayward joys that had their cost:
And I yet feel blithe and nifty :
Life is pleasant still at fifty.
Still grow flowers by the way.
I was fifty yesterday!
N.s.w.
HAROLD MERCER.


Old Fashioned!
Unsightly!
Why spoil the beauty of your
windows with clumsy wooden
frames and rusty wire?
IMoU up if our /
'UGhdotf Screens (ike bands J
Fitting snugly on the inside of the
window, harmonising with the cur-
tains and woodwork, the Australian-
made B.R.G. Rolscreen will not mar
the appearance of any window. When
not needed they roll up out of the
way at a touch of a finger, yet have
to be deliberately cut open to gain
access from outside. Permanently
installed they never need taking
down, and have the unique advan-
tage of being equally effective on
casement windows.
For old or new windows they can
be supplied in any size, ranging from
1 1 inches to 61 inches wide.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
~ (Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd.,
430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, C. 1.; 14 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
iiat i, ~ . J '] or complete details and prices, call on or write to —
& Co - £ ty ’ Ltd. ADELAIDE: Elder Smith & Co., Limited.
Brisbane- En §\£ o - of WA > Li mited. SYDNEY: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd.
lolm Duthie & Cn l r M°'V Ltd V NEW ZEALAND: Wellington-Derbyshire’s & Co.;
’ 01111 JJUtllle & Co -> Ltd. Dunedin— Donald Stuart & Co.
ifmnj
¥
The B.R.G. Rolscreen—inconspicuous, rustproof,
permanent, rolls up and down like a roller
blind.
PERONAL
ITEMS
Of the veterans who turned up at Parlia-
ment House (Melb.) to celebrate the 31s.t
anniversary of the opening of the first Com-
monwealth Parliament, John Quick, now re-
tired, is engaged at his East Camberwell
home in writing a bibliography of Australian
literature. King O’Malley is busy with his
life story at Albert Park. Hume Cook keeps
active in defending Australian industries
and participating in affairs of the A.N.A.
And ex-Senator J. 11. Keating has his work
as a barrister to attend to.
Hai-old Luxton having got his K.B. in
respect of hisi three-year term as Lud Mayor
of Melbourne, there are now thi-ee knights
in Vic. Assembly. The other two ax-e S’Alec
Peacock and Premier Argyle. Frank Clarke
is the lone Sir in the other House.
Ernest Turnbull, who, as managing direc-
tor of British Dominions Films, Ltd., has
just pushed through a big deal whereby
Gainsborough-Gaumont will be sure of a
chain of theatres in Australia and Maori-
ERNEST TURNBULL, who bosses British
Dominions Films.
land, has the organising wog in his blood.
He created the All-Australia League in Mel-
bourne, which came to' a natural end after
its job of helping Lyons into power was
done. He was for many years president of
the Vic. R.S.S.L.
No knighthood conferred for years on a
Vic. citizen has been received with, such
general approval as the K.B. conferred on
Macpherson Robertson, the sweets manu-
facturer. He began making lollies with a
nailcan and a pannikin, and kept on deve-
loping (he is a model employer) until he
has a concern for which he refused two and
a half millions not so long ago. great
chance came with the war and the pi'Ohibi-
tion of certain imports. He might have
lowered the quality of his goods; instead, he
gave instructions that in every way quality
had to be improved—and it was. His public
benefactions exceed £lOO,OOO.
Apropos of the K’s.B. conferred on Kings-
ford Smith, Macpherson Robertson and
Harold Luxton on George V.’s birthday, Sirs
of that grade can no longer complain that
they have “nothing to wear.” About six
years ago a badge was designed and approved.
But there is something to pay—to be precise,
seven guineas.
Colonel Donald Cameron, of Queensland,
is a new K.C.M.G. Like his father, a
grazici*. he was born in Brisbane and edu-
cated at the local Grammar School. His
first taste of war was with the Bushmen in
S’Africa,. whence he returned with the rank
of captain. He left for the Great War as
a squadron leader in the Fifth Light Horse,
and saw service on Gallipoli and in Sinai
and Palestine, rising to the command of the
regiment when Lachlan Wilson went to the
Third L. H. Brigade as Brigadier. War
over, Cameron turned to Federal politics,
and, winning the Brisbane seat from Labor
in 1919, held it in spite of increasing ill-
health until last elections.
The late Harry Morton—brother of Mark,
M.L.A., and of Philip, who died last month
—r was an outstanding N.S.W. “character”
in his day. He couldn’t ride, but he owned
some of the best show-jumpers in Austimlia
before the war, including the famous Des-
mond. He didn’t know much about Parlia-
mentary procedure, but he filled the office ot
Speaker in the Assembly, after the depar-
ture of the remarkable Mr. Willis, with dig-
nity and efficiency. He had a pull I t* l ®
Laborites liked him as much as members ot
his own party. He didn’t cut much of a
figure in debate during his 10-year term as
member for Hastings and Macleay, but he
won the reputation of being the most ainus-
ing raconteur the House had known since
Parkes. He was also an astonishingly clever
conjui’or, with high spirits and charm of
manner. He began life as a bank clei’k, and
was one of the managers of the Coolangatta
estate, near Berry, for years. Illness forced
him into retirement four years ago.
Louis von Doussa, S. Australia’s oldest
practising lawyer, has quickly followed his
friend J. L. Stirling to the grave. They
were both identified with the southern
“Hills” distinct, for which both had sat in
Parliament. Stirling lasted 83 years; Von
Doussa was a year younger.
Baron Aitken, of Aberdovey, a member of
the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council
which heard the appeal in the N.S.W. Leg.
Council case, is a Queenslander, born in
Brisbane 65 years ago. His dad was Robert
Travers Aitken, an Irishman, for some years
a member of the Queensland Assembly. His
mother was the daughter of William Hem-
maqt, once Colonial Treasurer of Queens-
land ; the family name is perpetuated in
Hemmant, an outlying suburb of Bris-
bane on the shores of Moreton Bay. The
Privy Councillor-to-be was sent to England
for his education, and after leaving Oxford
was called to the Bar in 1891, taking silk
15 yeai’s later. He was appointed a Judge
of the High Coui-t in 1913, a Lord Justice
of Appeal in 1919, and in 1928 a Lord of
Appeal in ordinary.
Sir Charles Martin, who succeeded Brails-
ford Robertson at Adelaide University’s
animal-nutiltion laboratory, says that he
was in at the birth of the word vitamines.
In his laboratory at the Lister Institute in
London, a young Pole named Funk thought
—wrongly, it seems —that the new life-giving
principle was an “amine”—an ammonia type
—and so built up the new name. “I tiled
to suppress it,” he says; “it sounded too
much like a patent food.” But a short name
was needed, and the old cumbersome “Acces-
sory foodfactors” gave place to the snappy
“vitamines.”
Died in S. Aus., at 51, Keith Bowman,
of the famous S.A. pastoralist family (but
he was box-n in Tasmania, and his wife was
a Gale of Westralia). He was interested
in many stations in westeim N.S.W. and in
Queensland, and his home at Poltalloch, on
the Murray Lakes in S.A., was always a
show-place for royalty and other visitors.
The church, big business, owners of cot-
tage homes, clubland and philanthropic in-
stitutions have united in Melbourne to
lament the passing of George Lush. His
long life was hardly long enough for the
good he crowded into it. Son of a Baptist
shepherd at Carlton, he made his own way
in the world. He was the mainstay of the
Kauri Timber Co., president of the Fourth
Vic. Building Society, president from 1893
to 1925 of the Royal Humane Society, a
stalwart on the Eye and Ear Hospital com-
mittee, a pioneer of the Australian Club
and of the Athenaeum (Library), director of
industrial cos. and other things.
G. S. ROWE, new sec. of A.J.C.
Dr. Peter Buck (Te Rangi Hiroa), well-
known M.L. ethnologist and ex-M.P., is leav-
ing his present job at Bishop Museum, Hono-
lulu, to take up a lecturership at Yale Uni-
versity. Formerly he was director of native
hygiene in M.L., and ’way back in 1912 he
held a portfolio in Tam McKenzie’s short-
lived stop-gap Ministry which preceded the
long reign of W. F. Massey.
Walter Carncross, Speaker of Maori-
land’s Leg. Council, is one of the Dominion’s
old Parliamentary hands, being able to look
back upon 42 years during which he hasn’t
missed more than one session. A journal-
ist, editor and owner of the “Eltham Argus,”
he was returned for the Otago constituency
of Taieri in the wave of Liberalism that
swept Ballance into powei*, and held the
seat for 12 years, when he retired. He had
been the Seddon party’s Whip, and King
WALTER CARNCROSS, Knight, Speaker
of ML. Leg. Council.
Dick put his trusty friend in the top House
less than 12 months later. Though in hxs
M. days he was prone to peppery inter-
jections, Carncross, now 77, has mellowed
into an ideal Speaker. The old gentlemen
don’t give him much trouble, but he could
quell them easily should they start anything.
King George tacked K.B. on to his name
in 1922.
Albert Gai'diner, who is standing for
Waverley (N.S.W.) under the banner of
Federal Laboi*, has been leather a misfit in
politics because of his ti'ansparent honesty.
“Jupp” in his early days was a Rugby Union
footballer of credit and renown, represent-
ing N.S.W. many times against Queensland
and M.L.; he was a heavy and somewhat
lumbering forward who always went straight
ahead. In politics his record has been much
the same. He served three terms in the
N. Assembly before going to the Federal
Parliament. There for some time he was
the only Labor Senator, and the smallest
Opposition on l’ecord. In the Fisher Minis-
try he was Vice-President of the Executive
Council and Assistant Minister for Defence
—this last in the ticklish 1915-16 period.
Arthur Henry Movei’ly, U.A.P. candidate
for Randwick, is Mayor of the suburb and
a good battler for it. A native of Gulgong
(N.S.W.), he was apprenticed to the build-
ing trade, and at 20 he went to the United
States and studied building construction for
six years in Chicago, New York and San
Francisco. When he came back he set out
as a building contractor, and was put on
the Water and Sewerage Board in 1927. He
used to play cricket for the suburb he now
wants to sit for.
J. W. Fletcher, who is opposing Randolph
Bedford as C.P.N. candidate for Warrego
(Q.), lives in the electorate, and is owner
of Bonus Downs in the Mitchell district,
lie began his working life in a Brisbane
shipping office, later going to the co.’s branch
in the Philippines. Afterwards he became sec-
retai’y and accountant to the Queensland
Meat Export Co. in Brisbane, and then
initiated meatworks of his own in North
Queensland, managing the concern for some
years. When general manager of the Glad-
stone meatworks he represented Port Curtis
for two terms in the State Assembly, losing
his seat when the Theodore “redistribution”
scheme took place.
Frank Markell, K.C., who relieves Judge
Alec Thomson while the latter is inquiring
into the affair of N.S.W. Chief Transport
Commissioner Goode, is a son of the late
Charles Markell, a one-time American mer-
chant in Sydney. Chai'les Markell brought
many of the “Yankee notions” which stayed
here—it was he who really introduced fly-
papers to Australia. With his brother Alec
he became interested in Rexona soap and
other products—and that was another gold-
mine till the late S. F. Sheffer pretty well
bought his partners out. Each Markell
brother had one son: Charles’s turned to the
law, Alec’s to medicine. Charles and his
wife wez*e both lost in the Tokio earthquake
and fire some years ago.
Hari’y K. Maley, a former leader of the
Westralian Country party—he was Deputy-
Premier to Jimmy Mitchell in the first coali-
tion between the C.Ps. and Nats., but lost
his seat later —has abandoned politics after
a couple of unsuccessful attempts to come
back. He has now accepted the vacant Agri-
cultural Bank trusteeship, occasioned by the
death of Frank V. Cooke. Maley comes of
an old Groper family long settled in the
Greenough Flats. He left farming to become
a Road Board secretary, and then gravi-
tated to' Parliament. His colleagues on the
Agricultural Bank are E. A. McLarty (man-
ager) and Charley Moran, a one-time
Queensland schoolteacher who cut a good
deal of ice in Westralian politics and gold-
fields affairs over 30 years ago.
William Edward Woodmason, who died
at 37 in Melbourne the other day, was the
son of the man who imported the first Jersey
cattle into the Commonwealth —W. J. Wood-
mason. Father and son laid the foundation
of many Jersey herds. A prominent member
of Melbourne Hunt Club, William E. was
thrown while schooling a horse, and never
recovered.
A. B. Brady, dead in Sydney at 76, was
one of Queensland’s outstanding architect-
engineers. Lancashire-born, he learned his
job in the engineering departments of the
Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway; coming
to Queensland, he entered the public service
in 1885. In 1901 he became Under-Secre-
tary for Works and lasted there till he
retired in 1922. Brady designed many of the
Government buildings in Brisbane; his
greatest. job as an engineer was the new
Victoria Bridge across the Brisbane River
after its predecessor had been swept away
in the flood of ’93. Another fine job of his
was the Lamington Bridge over the Mary
at Maryborough.
Luck has hovered around Jack Penning-
ton since he turned to politics in Victoria.
He got into the Assembly first 19 years
ago through Peter Mcßride resigning Kara
Kara to take the Agent-Generalship. In
1917 Joe Hall, a cocky, beat him, but on
a review of votes by the Elections and
Qualifications Committee Jack got back the
seat after an interval of four months. Next
year Lawson, whose heart he had won, made
him Whip, and then Assistant Minister for
Agriculture, and gave him a trip to England
as executive commissioner at Wembley.
Later came a year in the McPherson Gov-
ernment, next a place on the Railway Com-
mittee, and now he is Minister for Educa-
tion. In his spare time he runs a farm and
a store at Bealiba. On a long journey he is
a bright companion, as he knows a thousand
yarns.
Tom Walls, owner-trainer of April the Fifth,
winner of the 1932 Derby, is one of the only
two “theatricals” who have taken the famous
three-year-old race —the other was the late
F. Curzon, who won with Call Boy in 1927.
In spite of the fact that he is one of the
busiest of actors and a partner in one of
England’s leading theatrical firms, Walls
finds time to see to his racing stable at Epsom,
whdre he lives, and to personally superintend
TOM WALLS, comedian, this year’s winner
of English Derby.
the training of his horses. As a comedian,
he has a world-wide reputation. Australians
will affectionately remember him as the
inimitable jockey, Peter Doody, in “The
Arcadians,” and in other Williamson pro-
ductions of 20 years or so ago. Of funereal
aspect, as the accompanying drawing shows,
Peter’s philosophy, enunciated in his famous
song “I’ve gotter motter,” was “Always
merry and bright.”


ŵ
PIONEER BELTING
Gives Greater Pulley Grip.
DECAUSE Pioneer Leather Belting gives greater
pulley grip, it insures maximum efficiency on
the largest ratios. Pioneer Belting also has up to
six times greater wearing qualities under all work-
ing conditions. There is a special waterproof Pioneer
Belt to suit each type of drive. Expert advice
without obligation.
PIONEER BELTING*
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON
LIMITED
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET PERTH
TASMANIA: CIIAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET. HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS. WELLINGTON.
THE
“CURVILINEAR" CONCENTRATING TABLE
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND PRICE
man
m
m
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demon-
stration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp
batteries, amalgamating tables, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water-
and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Afided to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77.735 67,969 42,198
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144.684 4,303 386,384
■ 1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923.. 481,770 164,880 1,817 393,743
1924.. 1.123.881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403,645
1925.. 668,113 226,659 2,047 ) ... H7n
Superannuation Fur;'’, £13,000 ..)
1926.. 1.428.152 591,843 242,131 2,875 ) rQO
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO J ’
1927.. 097 621,418 270,181 3,494 ) 7n ,
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO ..( ’
Policies of Mutual Life Co. of N.Y. taken over.
1928.. 053.802 679,124 271,763 3,779 ) n nQ7 8 o«
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO .. j ’ ’
1929.. 1.791.046 810,954 290,883 4,583 ) rs „
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. f 8 ’° 0
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 / rna
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ) J
1931.. 2561.145.843 338,960 50,909 ) „ 9 „ K ,.
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO 88,044
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1918 . . 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
1920 . . 211,184 14,156 65,030 493,224
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1924 .. 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1926 .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 )
Superannuation Fund, £650 1 ’ 1
1927 . . 484,272 187,208 164,060 ) , - Qrl
Superannuation Fund, £650 ..) ’ ’
1928 . . 534,140 150,570 180,561 ). , r . s „ 9n
Superannuation Fund, £ 50 .. j ’ ’
1929 .. 587,221 89,372 185,272 QP -a 007
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. ) ’ ’
1930 .. 631,293 209,684 184,429 j
Written off, £53,184.. .. j-2,143,093
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1931 .. 592,230 213,173 169,159]
Written off, £21,995 .. .. [2,330,096
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. j
■"lncludes contingency funds, etc.
About one-third of the Ordinary income is
gathered in S. Africa, Britain and Maori-
land; the Industrial contracts are Confined
to Australasia. Last year the slip in the
amount of new business written was
£1,532,330 in the Ordinary (£5,540,573) and
£395,397 in the Industrial branch
(£1,650,738). In all departments combined
net premium income (£1,937,844) fell away
£26,342, due mainly to surrenders (£241,410
as against £164,267 in 1930) ; the contrac-
tion in net interest, etc. (£560,299), was
£58,051, owing to' the growth in taxation.
Thus the shrinkage in the year’s total in-
come (£2,498,143) was £84,393. After pay-
ing all legitimate claims and exes., including
an extra £77,143 in surrenders (£241,410)
and an additional £50,343 in taxation
(£94,564), and openly striking £72,904 off
the book value of securities, etc., the net
addition to total funds (now £13,474,210)
was £514,145, or £310,692 less than in 1930.
It is all reflected in a reduction of £64,136
in the aggregate net surplus (£482,572) o'f
the three departments :
Net surplus:— 1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Ordinary .. £380,933 £403,338 £433,607 £393,654
Industrial .. 80,480 96,857 96,578 77,873
Accident .. 7,536 16,591 ' 16,823 11,345
Income tax was largely responsible for the
shrinkage, and therefore for cuts in the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand bonuses. To ensure
equitable distribution, bonuses have been
scaled according to Government levies in the
countries where the society operates. In S.
Africa, where the tax paid by mutual life
offices is negligible, the year’s bonus addi-
tions to policies were on the old scale, which
ranged from 465. per cent, on contracts less
than five years old to £5 per cent, on those
45 years or more in force. The reductions
on these maximum rates—the cuts in the
previous year are shown in parenthesis—are
7s. (2s. 5d.) per £1 of bonus in Australia,
2s. (Is. 7d.) in Maoriland and Is. (Is. 3d.)
in Britain. Thus the thrifty pay for the
financial improvidence of their Governments.
In the Industrial section only those poli-
cies which became claims received bonuses
in 1930. The rates ranged from 20s. to 50s.
per cent. Reversionary bo'nuses on the same
scale were declared on all policies in force
at Dec. 31. Meanwhile the basis of valua-
tion has been strengthened at an extra cost
of £216,408, of which £133,000 was trans-
ferred from the contingency reserve, reduc-
ing it to £42,000. The aim is to provide
for the maintenance of satisfactory bo'nuses
in the future.
For the same purpose the book value of
Government and Local Government securi-
ties, etc., has been written down in order
to show a gross return of 4} p.c. and 5 p.c.
respectively wherever statutory cuts had
reduced actual yields below the figures men-
tioned. The office assumes that its funds will
return 34 p.c. clear. After deducting taxes,
last_ year’s net return was £4 7s. sd. p.c. as
against £5 Os. lid. p.c. and £5 9s. lOd.
p.c. for the two preceding yeats. The full
effect of interest-reduction legislation and
of increased taxation will not be felt until
the close of next accounts. Nevertheless,
provided no further writing down of .book
values is necessary, the Australian rate of
bonus may suffer little further reduction, if
any. Much depends upon the extent to which
exes, can be curbed. In the Ordinary branch
they took 24.3 p.c. of last year’s net pre-
miums as against 22. S p.c. in 1930; the
Industrial figures were 33.7 p.c., 1931; 34.6,
1930.
The next table shows how the funds arc
invested :—•
Public securities 1930. p.c. 1931. p.c.
and debentures £6,732,616 51.3 £7,138,488 52.3
Mortgages.. .. 2',953,605 22.6 2,753,150 20.2
Freeholds.. .. 1,487,521 11.3 1,602,709 11.7
Loans on policies 1,329,104 10.1 1,509,068 11.0
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 380,273 2.9 358,950 2.6
Cash and deposits 161,714 1.2 200,319 1.6
Other assets .. 89,920 .7 100,581 .7
Last year loans on policies increased by
£179,964 net, £115,188 was added to the
premises item and £405,872 to the book
value of public securities, etc. Owing to
their freedom from extra taxation more
attention is now being given to Consols.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1922.. 9,039 9,039 9,039
1923.. 11,092 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603. 30,734
1925.. 15,207 6 p.c. = 5361 9,846 40,580
1926.. 15,811 7 „ „ 6295 9,516 50,096
1927.. 18,145 7 „ „ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „ „ 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7 „ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7 „ „ 6568 90,616
includes reserve for unexpired risks.
The underwriting loss for the year was
£13,439, but £9530 was gathered in interest
and rents, thus reducing the net excess of
outgoings over incomings to £3900. The re-
venue account showed a surplus of £11,091 ;
that was after taking into the reckoning
£15,000 previously reserved for unexpired
risks, leaving the amount so set aside at
£50,000, or nearly £lO,OOO more than is
usually considered adequate.
However, finances are suug, and this class
of business is one in which results need to be
averaged. For the five years to. the close of
accounts in 1931, underwriting surpluses
aggregated £33,906, to which interest and
rents added £49,412. Only £32,422 of the lot
was distributed as dividends; so the board
felt justified in taking £6568 of the remain-
ing £50,896 to give shareholders 7 p.c. again
last year. Including the reserve for unexpired
risks, the lay-by was still within £3310 of the
£93,825 of paid capital at March 31. It is
a splendid performance for an 11-year-old,
whose business has spread all over the Com-
monwealth, north to Asia and the Indies and
out over the South Sea Islands. Also there
is an office in London, where the co. pulled
out of the unsatisfactory marine business
nearly three years ago; and there was
another one at Montreal, but that was closed
a year or so ago owing to the unsatisfactory
experience in Canada.
Underwriting performances compare as
follows:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922.. £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0p.c. 39.7p.c.
1923.. 40,049 18,240 15,583 45.5 „ 38.9 „
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1925.. 73,375 41,052 23,940 55.9 „ 32.6 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1927.. 132,600 85,683 36,392 64.6 „ 27.4 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1929.. 176,229 113,991 55,507 64.7 „ 31.5 ~
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 „ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 69.1 „ 39.8 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 C 9.2 „ 44.1 „
The shrinkage of £38,558 in last year’s net
premiums was due mainly to the evaporation
of insurable value, including lighter pay-rolls,
which affected workers’ compensation busi-
ness. Losses were exceptional ; though they
totalled £12,710 less than the previous year’s,
they made off with' an extra £lO 2s. of each
£lOO of net premiums. It was impossible to
get exes, back in proportion to the drop in
net premiums, so, despite savings amounting
to £11,007, there was a spring of 4.3 p.c. in
the expense ratio. Though it may be diffi-
cult to squeeze anything in the way of sur-
plus out of underwriting for a while, both
net premiums and the loss rate can be ex-
pected to improve as conditions become more
settled. Last year’s interest and rents alone
were 10.1 p.c. on capital, as against 11.9 p.c.
in the previous year. The figure may shrink
a trifle yet, but it promises to remain com-
fortably in excess of the 7 p.c. div.
Policy-holders are well protected. At
March 31 net tangibles were equal to 184 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums. Assets comprised
Government securities, £119,668; cash,
£27,446; book debts, etc., £22,051; freeholds,
£74,041. There was £52,298 coming to
creditors.
The pound shares paid to 10s., which are
covered by 19s. Bd. in net tangibles, are not
listed.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.t
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4 413 5 „ „ 4262 151 17,354
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5000.. 12,354
*F,ight months.
tExcluding capital reserve, £165,485 at Dec. 31,’31.
This co., formed by a group of creditors,
took over the G. A. Bond hosiery business
and that of its cotton-spinning associate in
1929. The old cos. came to grief through ex-
cessive borrowing and extravagant manage-
ment, and shareholders, except the prefs. in
the cotton co., lost all their capital. The liqui-
dators had transformed the business from
a losing to a profit-earning proposition, and,
after allowing for debenture interest, the
prospectus figured on net profits of £51,000
p.a. But times have changed, thus throw-
ing estimates askesv. Most of the old trade
debts were funded by the issue of £544,033
of 7 p.c. debentures, redeemable at par in
five years. Incidentally, the debenture
charge has been lowered to £5 Ss. 6d. per
cent, by interest-reduction legislation. Small
debts were paid in cash, to provide which
133,816 shares were issued and paid to
£85,840 at Dec. 31 last.
After allowing for debenture interest, the
profit claimed for the first eight, months was at
the rate of 36 p.c. p.a. on paid capital. Last
year the tariff and exchange provided the co.
with new opportunities, and it turned out
and sold more goods; but prices and profit
margins were lower. The worst difficulty
was unequal competition from Victorian
mills, which operate under much less har-
assing industrial legislation than those in
N. S. Wales, with a consequent advantage
in production costs. Converting the 1930
figures to an annual basis, last year’s gross
earnings (£245.420) were £BO2O lighter,
while the larger trading added £19,936 to
exes. (£205,066, including provision for sales
and other taxes). Thus enough remained
to pay the debenture interest (£35,941) and
show 5.1 p.c. on capital; so the div. was
reduced to 5 p.c. That was before £5OOO
was taken from reserves to meet an unex-
pected growth in the previous year’s tax bill.
In addition to the lay-by shown in the table,
there is a capital reserve of £165,485; hut
that is mainly a book entry in respect of
the freehold.
To knock £12,243 off the mortgage, carry
an extra £74,716 of book debts and spend
£19,301 more on fixed assets than was writ-
ten off, the board went to its bankers for
an extra £32,372, added £15,793 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors and re-
duced the book value of stocks by £59,911
last vear, as this comparison of prospectus
and balance-sheet figures shows:—
Prospectus. Dec.,’3o. Dec.,’3l.
Paid capital .. .. £83,883 £85,840
Debentures . . . . £509,641 544,033 544,033
Mortgage . . . . 126,677 123,919 111,676
Overdraft . . .. 76,712 57,021 89,393
Sundry creditors . . 120,348 34,219 50,012
Freehold . . . . 223,729 321,107 322,295
Plant 212,271 213,035 231,148
Stocks 383,487 338,322 278,411
Book debts . . . . 88,888 148,538 223,254
Cash, etc 18,400 8,263 7,947
Thus at the close of last accounts more .or
less liquids, including stocks, exceeded the
floating debt and mortgage combined by
£258,531, a slip of £21,433 over the twelve-
month. Book debts include a claim of
£26,398 under the Cotton Industries Bounty
Act. It is plain, therefore, that the bounty
is contributing largely to profits.
After next Saturday’s elections business
promises to take on a better tone in N. S.
Wales; relief is expected from some of the
legislative and other handicaps of the last
18 months. Still the market notes that no
specific provision has been made for redemp-
tion of debentures, and, doubtful -about the'
continuance of the bounty, prices the deben-
tures at £55. Allowing for the statutory cut,
the return at that figure is 9.8 p.c. The
shares seldom come into the market. Exclud-
ing the capital reserve, the net tangible
backing was £llB-odd for each £lOO deben-
ture and 225. lid. for the shares.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Thi s co. took over the builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware business of F. Malley and
Son in 1919. Goodwill (£22,682) is not
reckoned as an asset hereunder:—
, Dividends-, ~ Towards
■ Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 „ „ 10,918 1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4£ ~ „ 7,491 1358 2.694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350 Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
For the first eight of the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts the struggle for turn-
over was desperate, and it was during this
period that most of the loss disclosed was
made. Gross earnings (£25,-198) were
£8576 lighter, making the slip £40,908 over
the last three years. Exes. (£35,048, includ-
ing something for bad debts) were pulled
back a further £5427, leaving the net loss
at £9550, Or £2438 less than the previous
year’s. No divs. were paid: and £20.194
of the £166,473 of ord. capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books at April 30.
During the year a branch was opened at
Brisbane, new lines were introduced, and
exes, are claimed to have been reduced to the
lowest level consistent with the efficiency of
the organisation ; everything, therefore,' de-
pends upon the livening of turnover. For
the four months to the end of April sales were
21.6 p.c. better than for the corresponding
period of the previous year, and with just
a little further improvement the co. will be
round the corner and making profits again,
the chairman says. Election prospects have
bngntened the outlook, but Sydney has been
overbuilt, and competition in the co.’s lines is
severe, which is pretty certain to mean
moderate earnings in the future.
There is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £196,473 £196,47310196,473 £190,413
Liabilities .. 40,009 38,671 17,714 14,44'.
Freeholds . . 44,122 55,712 55,632 55,673
Leaseholds .. 19,824 18,040 17,272 16,460
Plant, etc. .. 39,213 38,670 40,304 38,731
Stock.. .. 64,061 72,422 54,772 49,850
Investments .. 1,955 1,877
Book debts.. 62,236 50,165 24,465 24,106
Cash, etc. . . 13,331 5,948 11,677 5,904
Stocks, the book value of which was reduced
£4922 during the year, are low, and are
claimed to be conservatively valued. All
known bad debts have been eliminated,
and provision made for doubtful accounts.
When the books last closed the more or less
liquid surplus (£65,415, including stocks)
was £7785; lighter than at the previous
balance.
For the pound ords., which fetched 235.
three years ago, 2s. is now offered. The
prefs. are priced at 7s. fid. There art! 30,009
of them, carrying a fixed cumulative 9 p.c.,
with priority as to capital and the right to
a premium of 2s„ 6d. in a wind-up or return
of their money. They were covered by net
tangibles with a book value of £5 17s. Gd.,
of which £2 3s. 7d. was surplus liquids.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-op.
Bonus
Dividends, to Written
April, Profit.' (6 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
■1921.. 4,401 1485 500 7,327
1922.. 1,781 1486 500 7,122
.1923.. 3,457 1486 760 8,343
1924.. 3,256 1496 750 9,353
1925.. 4,865 1496 1500 11,222
1926.. 3,092 1496 2000 10,818
7 p.c.
1927.. 5,065 1745 3252 10,886
1928.. 5,263 1745 1281 500 12,623
1929.. 9,369 1745 1962 1700 16,585
Rebates.
1930.. 11,623 1745 4403 2500 19,560
1931.. 13,226 1745 5473 2500 23,068
1932. . 15,155 1745 6610 4750 25,118
This semi-co-operative concern, which
handles a lot of the butter exported by Vic-
torian factories, does not scatter information
concerning quantities shipped and prices
realised. Other lines which pass through its
freezing works at Victoria Dock, Melbourne,
are meat and rabbits. It is also agent, for
the supply of all kinds of butter manufac-
turing equipment. A run of good seasons
and the operation of the Paterson scheme
have resulted in a steady growth of butter
exports for the last half-dozen years, which
probably explains the improvement in the
figures in the table.
Despite the drop in prices, the aggregate
value of Australian butter, lamb and mutton
exports for the nine months to the end of
March was £10,584,169. or £2,705,181 more
than for the corresponding nine months of
the previous season, and Victoria shared
largely in the increase. For the year to the
end of April the co.’s gross earnings
(£24.763, including £6,610 of commissions
rebated to clients) improved £2OlO. The
net result benefited by £1929 of the increase,
and, after allowing the rebates and £4750
struck off for depreciation, enough remained
to pay the usual 7 p.c. div. and send £2050
to reserves, lifting them a little in excess of
capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1922. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £24,762 £24,930 £24,930 £24,930
Liabilities . . 40,181 25,876 27,831 25,124
Premises and plant 26,847 31,712 29,229 27,189
Stocks . . . . 3,358 1,163 5,206 868
Book debts . . 29,398 18,825 22,787 22,190
Cash and War Loan 123 216 219 5,165
Shares ill other cos. 15,594 25,186 25,186 28,376
Last year £3190 was added to the holding
in the Co-op. Box Co., raising it to £20,000.
The freezing works, which cost £53,943, are
(Continued on page 16.)


<i
9
©
ws.
Ay
m
s
S 3
11
iillllili
V. . -.V.V.V.V
s
' :
T M
xmmm.
■ • : 9Wi:V.
1
s
Eg
\
mm
m
m
s
1
1
£
m
K
£5:13 x*
PLUME SETS THE STANDARD
VACUUM OIL COMFVVNIIMiSi


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * $
FAMILY INCOME.—The latest way of providing
a safe income for the family is a special Family
Income Policy. In fact, it is the only safe way
to-day, with many companies not paying dividends,
tenants not paying rents, and reduction of interest.
The T. and G. has never failed in its payment, never
repudiated, never asked for any 22-1 per cent, reduc-
tion. Every £1 promised under its policies has
been paid. Its strength is such that every £1 will
be paid. Let the T. and G. take care of that safe
income for your family when they most need it.
King or write T. and G. Mutual Life at any Capital
City in Australia and New Zealand. — Advt. [4
* * * *
GOLD DREDGING PLANT.—Offers are invited for
the purchase of a Gold Dredging Plant (by Euwolt’s),
situated at Adelong, New South Wales; working-
capacity, 20,000 cubic yards per week —capable of
handling 40ft. ground. Inspection by arrangement.
Address inquiries to Post Office Box 856 K, Melbourne.
—Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers wider Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
in at £28,943. When the hooks closed stocks,
hook debts and cash exceeded liabilities by
£3099.
At the moment Victoria’s weekly butter
output is well ahead of last year’s, but there
has been a sharp fall in the London pi'ice,
due partly to Belgium joining the Continen-
tal group which limits its imports. Prospects
arc that low prices will continue until the
peak period of European production has
passed.
Toowoomba Permanent Building Society
The sudden change in financial conditions,
emergency legislation, arbitrary reduction
of interest and the quick growth of tax-
ation, especially on incomes from properties,
have struck most building societies their
hardest blow since tlie crisis of 39 years
ago. But this one has managed to continue
on the even tenor of its way. It is a purely
mutual concern: hence there is no share
capital to feed. No bonuses are paid either;
thus profits are not aimed at, and little or no
income tax is payable. The society makes
advances on mortgage for 20 years or more
to purchase, build and improve homes.
The business is conducted at commendably
small cost, thus enabling a high rate of
interest to be paid to depositors, while bor-
rowers of the society’s funds have been able
to get the money at a bit less than the rate
usually asked for first mortgages in Queens-
land. These and other things, including the
long-term nature of the loan, largely explain
the remarkable expansion of the business
since 1923, when the bonus system was
dropped in favor of the present plan:—
Interest Other
Feb., Deposits. Advances. Income. Paid. Outgo.
1923 .. £206,537 £212,744 £16,795 £12,929 £1927
1924 . . 257,012 278,163 20,456 15,905 4207
1925 . . 312,320 323,860 23,022 19,620 3308
1926 . . 375,281 393.970 27,944 23,493 2749
1927 . . 445,05 S 460,638 34,057 27,805 3139
1928 . . 519,918 533,000 37,330 32,953 3240
1929 .. 594,806 610,114 43,212 38,101 4526
1930 .. 683,018 697,011 48,693 43,694 4171
1931 .. 721,911 716.148 53,547 48,314 4399
1982 .. 726,354 713.193 54,794 49,697 4093
Thus last year’s net growth in deposits was
£4443, as against £3ti,:.93 and £88,212 for
the two preceding years. New advances
totalling £50,659 were made, hut repayments
amounted to £2655 more than that. Still,
an extra £1247 was received in interest,
etc. Borrowers were charged an extra &
of 1 p.c., or 7§ p.c. in all, which
brought in £52,638. or £1284 more than for
the previous year, while depositors received
their usual 7 p.c., which called for an addi-
tional £1383. The § p.c. margin covered the
whole of the management and other charges
(£4093), and left £lOO4 over for reserves,
in which the year’s not increase was £B7l,
raising them to £16,778 at Feb. 29.
Here is the position looked at from an-
other angle:—
1924. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Deposits .. £257,012 £594,806 £721,911 £726,354
Other liabilities 9,449 1,039 131 96
Suspense account 9,040 16,702 4,550 4,115
Reserves .. 10,321 15,359 15,907 16,778
Advances .. 278,103 610,114 716,148 713,493
Premises and
fittings .. 2,309 2,224, 2,148 2,079
Investments, etc. 7,090 16,318 24,953 32,771
Thus advances have stepped down from
108.2 p.e. of the deposits at the close
of accounts in 1924 to 98.2 p.c. at the end
of February last. To represent the other
£17,062 then coming to depositors and others
there were premises with a book value of
£2079, and investments, etc. (mainly Gov-
ernment securities and cash) totalling
£32,771. Apparently deposits are for fixed
terms, though this is not made clear in the
sheet. The £32,771 was equal to £4 10s.
per £lOO of depositors’ money, including the
suspense account, etc. The only visible pro-
tection against possible losses is the £16,778
of reserves, which amounted to less than 6d.
in the £ of advances. No difficulties worth
mentioning appear to have been recently
experienced in connection with advances,
which is a fine testimony to the management.
Still, much depends upon the ability of bor-
rowers to continue to stand up to their
commitments. To help reduce the risk in
this respect interest on advances is to be
lowered by 1 p.c., which is expected to
mean a drop of 1$ p.c. in the rate paid for
deposits.
National Reliance Investment Trust
This little investment trust has managed
to steer clear of serious trouble in a market
full of pitfalls. The co. was launched in
Melbourne in April, 1930, with Stan Ricket-
son at the helm. It offered 250,000 shares
of 10s. each, of which 100,165 were taken.
Paid capital is thus £50,082. This was sup-
plemented by £22,05S of borrowed funds at
March 31, 1931. For the 11$ months to
that date a capital profit of £3Ol resulted
from change of investments. The net in-
come from securities, etc., was £1343, equal
to 3.2 p.c. on average capital, and a 2$ p.c.
div. was paid.
For the 12 months to the end of March
last, divs., interest, etc., brought in £3151.
Including £460 set aside for the taxgatherer,
exes, took £984, leaving £2167 net, or 4.2
p.e. on capital. So the 2$ p.c. to share-
holders was repeated, £2OO was struck off
preliminary exes., reducing them to £lBOO,
and the balance was sent to reserves, now
£761. That is leaving out of the reckoning
a capital loss of £519 on sales, which the
previous year’s profit from the same source
reduced to £2lB net, and a shrinkage
of £3823, due to exchange, in the nominal
amount of funds transferred to London.
At the end of March, 1931, about 93 p.c.
of the co.’s securities consisted of Govern-
ment paper; a year later 29.1 p.c. was repre-
sented by bonds and debentures; 10.8 p.c.,
pref. shares; 60.1 p.c., ord. scrip. Mean-
while, the book value of investments was
reduced by £47,695, leaving the item at
£20,489, which was only £471 in excess of
their then market value. After reducing the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£2765
at March 31) by £19,293, the balance of the
money that became available was put in the
bank or at call; the management thus had
£27,652 awaiting more favorable investment
opportunities. Book debts and securities
sold but not delivered totalled £B7B. Accord-
ing _ to balance-sheet figures, £5OBO of the
capital was unrepresented by tangibles when
the hooks closed. But if the eo.’s London
investments (£7727) and cash (£15,580)
were expressed in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange, the whole of the
capital was intact and a trifle more.
Until substantial reserves are accumulated
only meagre returns need be looked from this
class of business, in which the prime aim
should be safety of capital.
For the quarter ended March 31 the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. recovered from B. 11. zinc
concentrates 13,127 tons of zinc valued at
£234,809, or £lB per ton. The American
price for the quarter was £l3 per ton, the
difference being due to! exchange. The out-
put shows an increase of 740 tons compared
with the December quarter. The production
of cadmium was 35 tons. A total of 704
men are employed at Risdon, or 230 less
than in 1929. Operations at Rosebery, on
the West Coast, remain at a standstill.
* * *
Broken Hill South’s ore-treatment return
for April shows that excellent results are
being obtained in the new mill. The leadies
assayed 74.7 p.c. lead, 3.8 p.c. zinc and
29.50 z. silver per ton. This is the highest-
grade concentrate obtained since the co. began
treatment of the sulphides, and compares
with 64 p.c. a few years ago. The zinc con-
centrates assayed 52.5 p.c. zinc and 1.8 p.c.
lead.
•s * * *
Roland Blanchard, geologist of Mt. Isa
Mines and formerly on the staff of the
American Refining and Smelting Co., is now
at Grove Hill, Northern Territory, inspect-
ing the Shackel gold leases, over which the
A. R. and S. has an option.
# * $ *
During April 1269 tons of copper ore,
chiefly from the Trekelano and Lady May
in the Cloncurry district (Q.), was for-
warded to the State smelters at Chillagoe.
This yielded 208 tons of copper and 240 z.
of gold, together valued at £8470. Also 200
tons of flue dust from the Kuridala dump
was treated for 17 tons of copper. Mount
Oxide has been thoroughly sampled, and is
being prepared for stoping, aud the Orphan
and Dobbyn mines are expected to be in
production shortly.
* * * *
Intensive prospecting is being carried out
in the Ilerberton district (N.Q.), where sur-
face shows are receiving a lot of attention.
At Nettle’s Creek 7500 c.y. was treated
for seven tons of tin oxide during the two
months to the end of April, and richer
ground is available. For April the Return
Creek dredge dug 40,000 c.y. from a depth
of 32ft. for 10 tons of oxide. This co. now
has plenty of water available, and may yet
come out on the right side despite past
failures. With things as they are it can
make a small profit if production exceeds
10 tons of oxide monthly.
* # * *
Sugarloaf Tin, Stanthorpe (Q.), lately let
its two dredges on tribute to former em-
ployees. The men are meeting with, a fair
measure of success. For the quarter ended
March 31 they got 27-J tons of tin oxide,
worth £2736. Many prospectors are obtain-
ing alluvial in the creeks and gullies; dui’ing
March 19 separate parcels averaged about
lewt. each.
* * *
At Mount Wandoo (N.Q.) the main shaft
is down 130 ft., and drives north and south
at this point total 70ft. in ore reported to
average 1.30 z. per ton over a width of 6ft.
A crosscut has shown 20ft. of mineralised
lode matter. Over 2000 tons of good grade
stuff is ready for the battery, but water
shortage is hampering crushing. About 50
men are employed.
* * * *
Last month closed with a mild boom in
Westralian gold mining scrip. On May 30
no less than 121,000 of these shares were
traded on Adelaide ’Change, and over 53,000
changed hands in Melbourne, while there
was stroug inquiry in Sydney and Brisbane.
The following table, showing Adelaide clos-
ing figures, illustrates the rise in prices
during the month: —
Facfy Market Price >
Value. April,’3o. May,’3o.
Boulder Perseverance .. 1/- 1/84 3/9-1
Great Boulder .. .. 2/- 3/101 10/11-
Lake View and Star .. 4/- 12/104 14/2
North Kalgurli .. .. 2/- 6/8 8/4
Sons of Gwalia .. £1 11/9 13/9
South Kalgurli .. .. 10/- 20/6 23/9
Wiluna .. •• £1 23/3 23/8
Chief interest centred in developments in
connection with the new lode at Great
Boulder. Also, buyers were influenced by
private reports foreshadowing possible con-
cessions in the terms of the profit-sharing
note issue of Boulder Perseverance, and of
good developments at the mine.
* * * *
“O.B.”: On the market over £500,000 has
been recently added to the paper value of
Gt. Boulder mine (W.A.). All that has
been officially reported so far is the widening
on the 1650 ft. level of a hitherto patchy lode,
together with the presence of a little tellu-
ride and fine gold in the broken ore. There
are always casualties among the public when
this sort of thing happens. Hoover used to
say that to make a gold-mining share worth
10s., there should be 60 p.c. dividends in
sight, and the bottom of the mine should
be sound.
* # * *
Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile, which covers, an
area of 700 acres, produced over 21 million
ounces of fine gold to the end of last year.
Production began in 1895; the peak was
reached in 1903; then there was a steady
decline until 1930, when the fall was broken.
This year’s yield is expected to be the best
for over a decade. The grade of ore has
varied from ounces in the early days to
pennyweights now. Treatment costs receded
from pounds per ton in the ’nineties to
about 225. in 1914. In 1925 the average
was 385.; it is now around the 225. mark
again, but the installation of modern equip-
ment is expected to bring it down to under
20s. on some mines.
* * *
Westralian Manganese Co.’s cup of mis-
fortune is slopping over. Nearly all its assets
have vanished, and what are left are to be
sold when opportunity offers for the benefit
of debenture holders. Also the State Gov-
ernment threatens to put in the boot because
the co. can’t repay roughly £lOO,OOO it
borrowed to build 80 miles of railway. B. H.
Prop., which holds a wad of the debentures,
was recently invited to buy the co.’s pro-
perty. But the invitation was refused, pro-
bably because world consumers of man-
ganese can purchase their requirements at a
price much below that at which the West-
ralian product could be profitably marketed.
* * * *
A buyer is still wanted for Mararoa Co.’s
mine. Gt. Boulder had an option, but after
sampling said that, while the show was
as good as the vendor had represented,
it was a bit out of the way and not big
enough for Boulder’s requirements. A
Yankee co. then looked at the property, but
declined to do business because “of the
world’s present unsettled state.” Morton
Webber, who holds the option, is now anxious
to get another bite.
$ * * #
Tongkah' Harbor Tin, N.L., is asking
shareholders for another Is., making the 255.
shares —there are 250,000 of them —paid to
245. The money is wanted to enable the
co. to hold on until the price of tin
strengthens. During the last 74 months the
drop in the price, restriction of output and
exchange difficulties have reduced the co.’s
earnings and increased its exes.; the extent
of the drift was about £lO,OOO. The banks
look askance at applications for assistance
from Malayan tin concerns these days, and
the co. recently lost an old and staunch
friend when Frank Bond, who had sat at the
hoard table for 22 years, died. To help
tide it over its difficulties he had lent the
co. £24,500, besides guaranteeing the over-
draft. The London price of tin fell from
£l3B 16s. 3d. on January 26 to £lO2 7s. 6d.
on April 12. After touching £129 12s. 6d.
on May 7, the figure was back to £ll9 7s. 6d.
at last week-end.
* * * *
Another Malayan tin-restriction proposal,
which appears certain of adoption, provides
for a complete stoppage of all tin production
in the F.M.S. during July and August. There-
after outputs are to be restricted to 31
p.c. of assessed normal production until, the
end of May next year. Alternatively it is
proposed that producers may work continu-
ously throughout the year on a 26 p.c. quota,
thus avoiding the heavy expense of a two
months’ total stoppage. Visible supplies are
now 50,563 tons, and that does not include
stocks held by the International Pool,
* * *
Mataki Gold Di’edging, the latest Maori-
land float, has 10 million c.y., with a further
10 million in sight, on the Matakitaki River,
South Island. With an average depth of
17ft. and an easily cleaned bottom, dredg-
ing promises to be cheap. Bore values aver-
aged Is. 3d. a yard; samples varied from
the fine, flaky beach type to shotty and
striated gold. The dredge is expected to put
through 20,000 c.y. per week. For mining
rights, etc., the vendors, the Nelson Develop-
ment Syndicate, took 80.000 shares fullv-
paid to 2s. each.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Paid capital and par value of scrip
in Wiluna, Lake View and Star , Great
Boulder, Boulder Perseverance, Worth Kal-
gurli and Golden Horseshoe? (2) What an
prospects of Great Boulder? —2s7.
(1) Wiluna, £1,000,000 in £1 shares;
Lake View and Star, £520,000 in 4s. shares;
Great Boulder, £175,000 in 2s. shares:
Boulder Perseverance. £125,000 in Is. shares ■
North Kalgurli, £75,000 in 2s. shares ■
Golden Horseshoe, £220,000 in 4s. shares.
(2) They are very encouraging at the
moment. Much depends upon how the new
ore body east of the Perseverance lode turns
out. Where cut by a drive from the 1050 ft
level it is 27ft. wide and averages 16dwt.
per ton. At the end of Dec. last
known ore reserves were put at 550,750
tons ; average recovery over last two years
was 10.9 dwt. per ton. Profits are expected
to benefit to the extent of Bs. per ton when
the new bromo-cyanide plant comes into
operation. To help finance the installation
£18,950 of 10 p.c. notes was issued, redeem-
able June 1, 1941, or at any time after
June 1, 1936, at the co.’s option. For the
last six months of 1931 the co. treated
43,773 tons for a gross return of £103,500.
and a net profit of £47,000 as against a net
return of £14,857 for the 12 months of
1930. Profits have been used mainly to
finance development and the new plant.
What is the position of depositors and
shareholders in Merron Estates, Ltd. (in
liq.) f— l 79.
Liquidator’s statement will be presented
in a week or so. Until it is available posi-
tion cannot be stated precisely. But deposi-
tors and other creditors will not receive 20s.
in the £; shareholders, therefore, will not
get any of their money back.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.McI.: Commercial Attache, British Legation,
Tokio W.E.C.: First dividend of ss. in £ to
creditors was paid on May 30. Unable to say when
next dividend is likely to be paid. The order to
wind up the Perth branch was not made by the.
AVestralian Court until April 26.... Juvenis: (1) No
other forestry co. is doing more for its bondholders
than this one. The directors of the Trustee Co. are
J. M. Melville, H. L. Tapley, W. Goss, W. H. N.
Amos, H. E. P. Bracey, F. T. Smythe. (2) Terms
of bond do not provide that the bond-selling co.
shall mill and market the timber at its own
expense. Bondholders themselves, acting through
their trustee, have to arrange for milling and
marketing. If all bondholders refused to transfer
freehold, the bond-selling co. may not make funds
available for realisation of forests. Bondholders
would then have to find the funds themselves, or
make other arrangements. (3) and (4) You are
bound by the decision of the majority A.8.H.:
Cannot trace; can you supply full address ?....
Forests and E.L.D.: No, they are a long-term specu-
lation. See B, l/0/’32. Directors, W. Fraser
(chairman), J. S, Brown, W. L. Davidson, C. A.
Davidson, F. C. Dewar and H. L. Smith... .P.8.E.:
Write to the Secretary, Adelaide Steamship Building,
Bridge-street, Sydney... .A.C.H.: Southern Cross
Assurance reviewed B. 2/12/’31... .P.S.: (1) Pros-
pecting and testing. (2) Yes. (3) All that cat.
be said definitely is that geological formations arc
favorable. (4) Certainly not, (5) It is a gamble
at long odds.... W.F.S.: We understand they are
being successfully used in S’Africa. Write to the
Secretary, Chamber of Mines, Johannesburg, S’Afriea,
for particulars.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Could a Capital Levy Be Paid?
Would it be physically possible for a
Lang Government to collect a 10 p.c. tax
on mortgages? Is there that much money
in the State? For the same reason, is not
every capital levy doomed to failuA’e —
capital being, not money, which is the only
thing you can pay wages, etc., with, but also
fixed property and goods, which are not legal
tender? —P. V. E.
Payment would not be physically
impossible. Money does not mean merely
notes and gold. Reginald McKenna, the
English banker, a former Chancellor of the
Exchequer, defines money as “currency in
circulation and bank deposits drawable
by cheque”; and deposits include credit
made available by banks. Whether tax
or levy could be collected would depend
on whether the banks could or would make
credits (overdrafts) available for the
purpose. But the banks’ capacity to make
money (that is, grant loans) is governed
by their ability to obtain cash. If they
must make loans for a certain purpose, and
already their lending is as great as their
cash resources warrant, then they must
call in other loans. The effect of a demand
for loans to pay a mortgage tax or a
capital levy would be the same as the
demand for a Government loan: generally
speaking, it could only be met by calling
in other advances —at the expense of
industry and private enterprise.
Are Only Wages Attacked?
The Bulletin advocates a reduction
of costs of production in order to make it
possible to meet the fall in prices all over
the world—in our foreign markets especi-
ally. Now, I hate Mr. Lang’s methods
and manners, but I can’t help thinking
that this means an attack on wages and
salaries—a reduction in the value of labor
—while other inflated values remain
unaffected. How can you justify that? —
A Unionist Since ’9O.
We don’t try to. It couldn’t be justi-
fied. We have used tons of printers’ ink
(all made in Australia, by the way) in
trying to show that our national duty is
to prevent any one making a gain at the
expense of his fellows from the fall in
values. It isn’t Lang’s opponents who
play “Heads I win, tails you lose”; it
is Lang himself—he wants every class to
suffer but the one he calls his own. Already
the holders of about 500 millions’ worth
of Government stock have had their
interest reduced 224 p.c. and repayments
pushed into the far future, and every-
where in Australia there are moratorium
and interest-reduction laws. These, Stevens
proposes to carry much further. But laws
are not necessary to secure devaluation
of anything but fixed debts or charges.
Turn up the Stock Exchange lists and you
will find that shares have been written
down to less than one-half, as a rule,
without any law or regulation; and nine-
tenths of the real trouble about mort-
gages is that property has been devalued
so greatly that it would not fetch the
amount of the first mortgage, while rents
have so fallen that they are not sufficient
to pay even the reduced interest.
The Exchange Rate
The Bulletin’s contention that any
increase in the exchange rate would have
to be borne by the whole community is
correct, so far as reduction in values is
concerned and the fact that the Govern-
ments will have to pay more for oversea
credits. But the Prime Minister estimates
that this cap, be done without increased
taxation. The Governments’ increased
funds from incomes on profitable business
will more than pay increased exchange
rates. If, on the other hand, the banks
were to reduce exchange to par, the process
of lowering costs to meet oversea parity
values may send scores of producers, store-
keepers, merchants and possibly banks
broke. City and surburban values may
then come tumbling down in sympathy. —
0.K.8.
The Bulletin has never proposed to
reduce exchange violently to par or any-
thing else. It admits freely that prices
of export goods can be increased by
increasing the exchange rate. But the over-
seas buyer does not pay a farthing more;
so the difference must be made up by our
own community. And that can only be
done by keeping up all Australian costs at
the higher level. So' long as costs remain at
the level at which they stood when export
prices were high, it is admitted that the only
hope for the export producer is to bonus
him in some form or other —through
exchange or otherwise. Exactly the same
result would follow from any other form
of inflation. It is quite true that inflation
(through an artificial exchange or otherwise)
would get us over some of our difficulties.
But it would be a mere postponement of our
troubles. It would stimulate exports and
severely restrain imports, whether of raw
material or finished products. This means that
the proceeds of sales must pile up overseas,
as they have been piling during the past
12 months. How are they to be brought
back to Australia, where they are worth,
say, only 13s. in the £? If inflation is a
good thing—well, then, let us adopt
inflation and call it by its proper name.
The Bulletin’s strongest objection is to
the proposal to introduce it under an alias
in the attempt to' smother up its bad points.
The Export Industries
From a recent Bulletin article the
reader assumes that no less than 600
millions has been spent over a period to
rectify annual trade balances; in other
words, the export industries have miser-
ably failed to that enormous extent. When
a- group of men in a mean little State
Legislature, intoxicated by temporary pros-
perity, sooled on by a yellow press and
actuated by the spirit of a beggar on horse-
back, borrow 10 millions to build a harbor
bridge 25 years before its time, you put the
item 10 millions on the side of imports and
then in effect reproach the export indus-
tries because they haven’t paid for it six
months after it’s built. Is that fair a/nd
honest reasoning? —G. B. Hargreaves.
The Bulletin has not said anything
so stupid. What it has said a thousand
times is that Australia has spent millions
more than it could afford —that all it
could pay for in the way of imports was
what the exports would buy, and that our
exports have had to be supplemented by
six or seven hundred millions of loans to
maintain our orgy of spending. For 30
years The Bulletin has been thrashing
the politicians for setting the export indus-
tries an impossible task. Those industries
have failed to do the impossible; but nobody
can suggest that it has been a “miserable”
failure, nor is there any suggestion of
“reproach.”
The Worker Who Has Lost Hope
Brown and Smith arc employed at the
same place, drawing the same ■ wages.
Brown has put his surplus earnings into
a home. Smith puts every penny of his
surplus into beer and ponies and pictures.
The slump comes and Brown’s £3OO equity
in his home is gone. Yet if he does not
own the share he has paid for, who does?
Smith doesn't care—no one can get bade
the beer nor the money that went on the
“cert” at the ponies. If the competitive
system cannot rise higher than that, what
future has it? — Keg.
It is not the competitive system which
works this wrong; it is the world’s present
rotten money system. The Russian Soviet
can’t escape its wicked results any more
than a capitalist country can. But there
is this to be said for the mortgagee. He
argued: “Now. under our money system,
the time is almost bound to come when
property will shrink greatly in value.
What can I put my capital into that will
be safest from shrinkage?” He chooses the
mortgage, and, in return for security of
principal, (1) accepts a very low rate of
interest and (2) foregoes all hope of
accretions (a mortgage never issues bonus
shares or divides a cash bonus in the
shape of extra interest). But what seems
to The Bulletin likely is that, so long
as we allow any section of investors to
escape the ill-effects of our rotten money
system, it will remain rotten. Therefore,
though not without misgivings, The
Bulletin has admitted that, just as the
terms of public securities have been altered,
so must the terms of mortgages be. When
our money system is
changed, this interfer-
ence with contracts
should cease.
Inflation
You have stated (B.
11/5/’32) that our ex-
ports are now paying for
our imports and meeting
our overseas interest bill as
well. In that case would
we not be well advised to
cut down, say by half, all
prices of goods, wages
and salaries, investments,
property values, etc. ?
This would not affect our
standard of living as far
as it is regulated by local
conditions , and our net
overseas income would
mean twice as much to
us. The increased spend-
ing power of the primary
producers would result in
increased production and
employment, and, local
production of articles at
present imported would
more than compensate for
the temporary confusion.
—Hereson.
If the nations got to-
gether and set up a new
standard of value, most
of its troubles would dis-
appear. The Bulletin
long ago expressed the
opinion that gold was no
longer a suitable basis for
our credit system. It
suggested that _ a more
trustworthy basis would
be the general level of
world-prices. This is
Professor Cassel’s plan.
It means that “the mone-
tary circulation of the
world, instead of depend-
ing on a limited stock of
any one commodity like
gold, would be made to
expand and contract with
.the total volume of trade
and production. When
the general level of prices
falls, purchasing power
would be increased to
counteract the fall; when
the general level of prices
rises, purchasing power
would be restricted.
Prices would then tend
to be stabilised round
about the cost of produc-
tion,” But we shall not
increase the wealth of the
community by cutting
our own £-note in halves
and calling each half a
£; it could not affect our
standard of living at all.
We should not get a
penny more for our ex-
ports, which are paid for
in the buyer’s currency
and not ours; and so far
as domestic trade is con-
cerned, we should as a
community be no better
off. Some people would
no donbt benefit the
debtors but it would
be at the expense
of the creditors. All we can do is to see
that, so far as possible, no section gains
from the increase in money value at the
expense of any other section.
The Division of N. S. Wales
I am interested in a factory in a Sydney
suburb. Thus far we have had the country
as a buffer against the Reds; the worst of
what we have gone through in the last IS
months has been almost entirely due to the
fact that at the last election the country did
not run true to form, If the country dis-
tricts are formed into separate States, what
is the future going to hold for us? It see-ms
to me the only safe thing to do is to get
across the border. —S. R.
If Lang should win, the danger would be
very great. In that event, and if N. S.
Wales became again a rebel State, as Lang
has promised it shall, the Riverina and
the Northern Districts would almost cer-
tainly set themselves up as separate States,
and on American precedent the Common-
wealth would admit them. But if the State
is divided as the Country party proposes—
and the United party has endorsed the pro-
posal—then the movement will be accom-
panied by Constitutional changes that will
transfer great powers to the Commonwealth
and leave any State Government’s capacity
for harm very limited.
Fixing the Exchange Rate
In “The Puzzle of Exchange” you say:
“If paper money is not convertible into gold
in its own country, the only way of valuing
it is by finding out what exportable goods
it will buy in the country of issue.” Why
only exportable goods? An Englishman con-
templating residence in Australia and a
foreign firm with surplus funds here would,
each figure out that 50 household necessi-
ties cost £6 ss. in Sydney, whereas the same
50 articles in London cost only £5. Wouldn’t
the rate of exchange be fixed accordingly ? —
G. B. H.
Gold (or at the moment in some places
sterling) is the only substance in which
foreign debts can be paid. If a debtor
hasn’t gold or sterling he must pay in goods
convertible into that money. The difference
between what the goods can be bought for
in the debtor country and what they can be
sold for in the creditor country fixes the
rate of exchange. But obviously the differ-
ence in the market value of more than one
article must be taken into account, other-
wise we might have a dozen different rates
of exchange. It is the difference between
the creditor and debtor prices of exportable
goods in the bulk which fixes the rate —
assuming, of course, there is no “pegging”
or other interference. The prices of straw-
berries and turnips and other non-exportable
goods in Australia don’t help to fix the rate
except insofar as they may affect the price
at which exportable goods can be produced.
Production and Consumption
I produce a bale of cotton at a cost of
£lO. It reaches the manufacturer, who turns
it into, say, shirts at a further cost of £lO
for wages, freight, fuel, depreciation of plant,
etc. The manufacturer now has a quantity
of shirts, the actual value of which is £2O,
and this sum has been distributed among
those engaged in their production. Obvi-
ously if he sells the goods for £2O he will
be unable to pay interest or dividends to
shareholders. Therefore, after talcing into
consideration such factors as competitors
prices, he sells the shirts for as much in
excess of £2O as possible — say, £25. Now
as the producers are also the consumers, how
are they to buy goods of a nominal value of
£25 with the £2O? —R. F.
In the first place, how does the grower
manage to grow £lO worth of cotton before
he is paid for it? By using credit, or by
paying out the proceeds of the previous year s
harvest. So with the manufacturer: he has
to finance not only the cotton purchase, but
the manufacture, which means buying mach-
inery, etc., on credit or out of his own
stored-up funds. The consumers are in
exactly the same position. They pay more
than has been distributed by grower and
manufacturer, doing it either out of credit
or out of their own stored-up funds. The
£25 now therefore reaches the manufacturer,
enabling him to pay the grower and his own
outgoings and leaving £5 to finance the next
transaction. This £5 goes to shareholders,
machinery merchants, etc., and so becomes
available to purchase goods. In short, the
£25 can be paid for goods notwithstanding
that only £2O has been thus far distributed,
because every transaction is part of an
endless chain. A fall in prices does, how-
ever, create a serious problem ; and the only
remedy for that is stabilisation —an inter-
national matter.
The Premiers' Plan
The weakness of the Premiers’ Plan seems
to me to be that retrenchments and reduc-
tions of wages and interest mean less money
in circulation and a consequent reduction of
Government revenues. Am I wrong ?—J otin F.
Well, suppose they do' mean reduced Gov-
ernment revenues, what about it? For years
past Australian revenues have been grossly
inflated: for instance, we borrowed money,
imported goods, charged a heavy tariff on
them, and looked upon the swollen revenue
with pride. In the same way we could swell
our revenue to-day by making 20 new Trades
Hall Judges, giving them each £2OOO a year
and collecting a 45.-in-the-£ income tax from
them.
THE PUBLIC SERVICE VOTE.
FORGAN SMITH: “I’m the one to give you all you want, ain’t I? I’m your friend, ain’t I?”
THE TURKEY: “Yes, and when the boss comes along and sees what it’s costing to feed us, he’ll
say, 'Kill off some of those-birds.’ And then half of us'll get the axe.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hun Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
Criterion “The Barretts of Wimpole .Street’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
r oyali “Blue ; Roses
State .. Movies and. Talkies
,
The Williamson opera co. made its second
grudging concession to ■ the theory, held , in
some circles, that opera is , not an
monopoly by performing Gounod s Faust
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night.
Admittedy the librettists made a rather naive
melodrama out of the best-known incident
in Goethe’s tragedy, but it isn’t nearly as
childish as the co. managed ■to make it
appear. Gounod, in a long-sustained burst
of inspiration that seems to have had its
roots in a struggle between his religious con-
victions and some considerable ■ remainder
of original .sin, assigned a powerful signi-
ficance to every phase of the story, which
calls for better acting and, in certain details,
better stagecraft than were devoted to it
on this occasion. Valobra, while she is the
only member of the co. with the rudiments
of a Marguerite in her composition, was
manifestly overweighted. Her “Jewel Song
and the magnificent aria in, the final scene
w r ere but sweet ghostly echoes of the golden
voices old opera-goers cherish in memory.
Montanari was by no means a convincing
Faust, though he sang with distinction, and
it was of a piece with his; view of the re-
quirements of the part that he addressed
“All hail, thou dwelling'pure and holy” to,
the centre of the dress-circle. ' Marone s
Mephistopheles was more impressive -in
appearance than in performance, being
aggravatingly stagey, s and', denying to' ' the
Enemy of Souls the ' delicate • and impish
humor with which the composer' Strove fo
endow him. Grazia Angelau!s Siebel< sang
the “Flower Song” with the innocent gaiety
of a child of five singing sad words that sig-
nified naught to its happy mind. Del
Chiaro’s manly Valentine was a bright patch
in an otherwise disappointing production,
and he died enthusiastically. , .
Hitches in the staging 'of such, miraculous
effects as the vision of Marguerite, and the
flow of fire from the barrel can be put down
to pure bad luck, but it ought to be. possible
to do the entrance of Mephistopheles and
the rejuvenation of. Faust, at least as effec-
tively as such things are done in non-musical
plays—in “The Message from-Mars,” for in-
stance. Apart from these defects the stag-
ing and lighting deserve a special word of
commendation. The scene in Act IV —an
act, by the way, which was partially ampu-
tated, though it could very conveniently have
been given in entirety (bar the Brocken
scene), with benefit to the coherence of the
plot, had the inordinately long intervals been
shortened —the setting was a triumph of
stage art, and the pictures presented on it
could with advantage have been transferred
to canvas and hung in galleries. The costum-
ing throughout, with the exception of a pair
of vermilion hose that swore violently at
all the rest of the kermesse scene, evidenced
taste.
The chorus, which improves every time
it appears, is now well-nigh perfect, and it
did itself proud in the fair scene and the
return of the troops. In the , latter scene
the band on the stage; actually played, and
played well, which is more than can be, said
of Signor Marone’s performance with a lute.
Why opera singers who are continually' sing-
ing serenades don’t learn - to' strum a few
simple chords on a stringed instrument is
one of those things no musician can under-
stand. Also, as even prima donnas from Ha
Scala must occasionally play Marguerite, it
is a wonder they don’t learn how to rotate
a spinning-wliecl.. Valobra’s pretence of
spinning was so slight as to be contemptu-,
ous. The one member of the. co. who de-
serves wholehearted praise is conductor
Rossi, who felt;the magic of Gounod’s music,
and extracted it from his orchestra.
* #
In theme, “Don Pasquale,” the William-
son co.’s 13th' Sydney offering, is Rossini’s
“Barber” with characters shuffled .and anci-
dents slightly altered. Old Dr. . Bartolo
becomes Don Pasquale; Figaro becomes .Dr.
Malatesta; Almaviva, Ernesto; Rosina,
Norina. They are. the same people, however ;
behave in the same way and are played by
the same cast. Musically “Pasquale” is in-
ferior to the “Barber.” Take away the over-
ture and “Com ’e gentil,” which provides
the backbone for the overture, and the rest
is negligible. The Italianised Scot who
scored it, however, was a past-master of his
craft —“Lucia” is eight years older—and the
duets, trios and quartets in which the merry
play abounds are models of deftness.
Paliuglu, as Norina, was at her charming
best in these concerted numbers, carolling
as prettily as a lark, and with an art that
seemed quite as unpremeditated as that of
the poet’s feathered songster. In the
cadenzas of her solo arias, alas! the little
lady gave no impression of spontaneity.
Fiore, who revels in dotards, made the elderly
Don a gentleman despite his folly, which
isn’t always the Don’s good fortune, and he,
Granforte (Dr. Malatesta) and Montanari
of the merry eye (Ernesto) romped through
the farce with engaging good humor and
good taste, even when the orchestra covered
them fathoms deep in billows of sound and
fury. The band played the overture splen-
didly, spurred on by Rossi, right up to the
last few bars, when it proved unequal to the
climax the conductor had so strenuously
built up. Why “Pasquale” was substituted
for “Tales of Hoffman” is a bit obscure;. as
obscure as the! reason for inserting
“Traviata” in the repertoire at the eleventh
hour. As far as present intentions go,
“Faust” and “Carmen” are to be the only
non-Italian operas presented. The season
will close with “Ballo in Maschera,” “Andrea
Chenier” and “Fedora.”
¥ ¥ ¥
Paul Furniss, who is a director of Sydney’s
Four Arts Club, not only wrote “My Wife’s
Husbands!,” a farce in three acts, presented
last week at the club’s theatre, but pro-
duced it, played the leading role and distri-
buted programmes before the curtain was
raised. The farce is concerned with the
misunderstandings which follow the intru-
sion into a flat, occupied by three young men,
of a sweet young thing who could not be
shifted from the apartment because she had
sprained her ankle. For no reason what-
ever, the intruder permits herself to be
palmed off as the wife of each of the trio
in turn, and as all the young men are. in-
volved with 1 other damsels the piece becomes
very complicated. A puritanical landlady, her
slow-witted husband, an empty-headed char-
lady, a designing widow and .the philander-
ing father of a young fellow who turns out
to be the husband of the girl with the
sprained ankle make the affair more tangled.
Mr. Furniss played his part with vim, and at
times almost managed to convince the audi-
ence that the nightmare had some connection
with reality, but the other men gave him
poor support. Althea Glasby was effective
as the uninvited charmer, and May Bailey
stood out as the most convincing of the
female partners of the harassed male trio.
¥ ¥ ¥ i
Sydney Rep. Soc., taking its courage in
both hands, produced Mrs.'Tom .Walsh’s play
“Exploitation,” a violent criticism of Sydney
society and politics, and > a bitter denuncia-
tion of .politicians. The play opens in a
boarding-house. The boarders are a civil
servant, Medlicott, and several aspiring poli-
ticians of various denominations. They talk
volubly. They are next seen after the elec-
tions. Boarder Barkiss, who was a Labor
candidate and is now Agent-General, is off
to London with his wife. Mrs. Medlicott has
misbehaved with the Communist can-
didate, and her husband learns of it on the
,day he loses his job. The Bolshevik also
swindles the boarding-house proprietors. The
scene of the last act is the unemployed camp
at La ‘Perouse. Ex-boarding-house-keeper
Mrs. Trebble, turned drunkard, steals from
.Mrs. Cameron, her former partner, who is
selling cakes. Lance, Mrs. Cameron’s sou, lias
become a street musician. Mrs. Trebble’s
son and Medlicott are planning a rob-
bery. Mrs. Medlicott, now a prostitute,
“FAUST.”
Left to right, top to bottom: Albino Marone, as Mephistoplieles; Primp Montanan as
Fausp (a) before,. (b) after refuvenation; strange attire ! of. dancers; Cesarina
Valobra as-Marguerite; Grazia Angelau as Siebel.
comes to warn her husband that he is being
double-crossed. He reviles her and goes off
to burgle. The Bolshevik, out campaigning,
comes to the Valley, but is forced to take
refuge in a hovel with a young woman, who
in the first act was on the hustings for more
women’s rights. Mrs. Medlicott shows him
up in his true colors to the other cat.
Trebble returns cut. and bleeding from a
motor accident, sustained on the way to the
burglary, to tell Mrs. Medlicott her hus-
band is in hospital and calling for her
There is a meeting of the unemployed, to
start a movement for a radical change of
conditions, and on this note of hopefulness
the play ends. Characterisation and acting
were good. The authoress spoke a few words
at the end.
* # #
It is an impressive testimonial to the pub-
licity value of the gramophone that the
management couldn’t have packed any more
audience into the Town Hall, Melbourne, last
week for the Galli-Curci concerts without
the aid of a wool press. The distinguished
vocalist is curiously birdlike. She shoots
from behind the big curtain like a woodhen
darting out of the jungle and surprised be-
yond words to find itself in company. Her
notes are birdlike. They come as a perpetual
surprise to the ear expectant of hearing
conventional human ways of singing. If
there-is passion in-them it is certainly-not
the simulated-passion of orthodox sentiment.
It is the emotion which seems to' appear
whenever an instrument is perfectly mani-
pulated. The Curci’s instrument has its
limitations, and the wise artist stays within
them. She never drives her voice at a top-
note like a hunter at a hurdle, determined
to get over somehow. In fact, she is some-
times suspected of walking round incon-
veniently high fences. When she does in-
dulge in the sort of unmelodious gymnastics
favored by extremely dexterous pianists,
such as Rossini’s “Tarantella,’ she is
birdlike. One grand advantage about her is
that you don’t know when she is singing in
English. According to the programme IQ
Gypsy and the Bird” was m English, but
as far as this Showman was
might have been bird language. The same
with her French, Spanish and German. • lm.
listener is thus able to savor the music _ot
the songs without being bothered with tne
meaning to which they are limited by it
libretto, which is usually Galii-
Curci is at her best in songs like Den pi
a me” (Buononcini) and Reger s ‘ Waldein-
samkeit.” Every syllable appears to,be per-
fectly related to every other one, and there
is the maximum of variety. The line, is con-
tinually changing and constantly being lost
and found again, as in the best painting.
Her worst effort is “H’ome, Sweet Home.
ss, 2s. ¥
The first all-Australian season, of the
Little Theatre Co., Fawkner Kiosk, Mel-
bourne, brought forth two duds and two
plays of merit, which, is a high average.
“Traitors,” by Gilbert R. Hillman, was a
wild and whirling tale, told incoherently in
Mrs. Bowley’s boarding-house. “Van Die-
men’s Land,” by J. Ormiston Reid, founded
on a true incident in the early days, deep-
ened the general depression. “Morning,” by
Betty M. Davies, was as different from its
predecessors as chalk from cheese. .The play-
wright also went back 1 to the early days, but
she took sound craftsmanship with, her. A
drunken digger, en route for the bright lights
of Sydney with a bagful of nuggets, is con-
trasted with a ticket-of-leave man, 1 a fugi-
tive from justice,. who is obliged to support
a wife and new-born baby by petty thieving.
The digger describes what he is going, fo
do with his nuggets—this one for swell din-
ners; this for the bookies, this 1 for poker,
this for women; and the ticket-of-leave man
follows him out 1 to kill him. Here there is
what the other plays' lack, a plausible con-
flict'of desires and personalities and an inter-
play of motives, carefully woven into a
dramatic unity. E. Lennard Roberts, as the
digger, had something to work on and made
the most of his material. “The Mystery of
Manfred Moon,” a Short hut Horrific Melo-
drama in Rhyme, was an agreeable plea-
santry, skilfully done by Isabel Handley.
Acting throughout the evening was of a high
order.
* * *
No new forecast has been issued by the
weather bureau at Melbourne Royal, so it is
presumed that any change expected there
will not be unduly sudden. Dame Sybil
Thorndike comes to the King’s on Saturday.
* * #
The Casson-Thorndike Co.’s performance
of “Saint Joan," at Adelaide Royal, is
simple, reverent and effective. Shaw’s play
is full of talk. The Maid is argued with,
or argued about. No populace, no soldiers.
No coronation—only the principals resting
after it. No Rouen market-place—only a
pavilion opening on to it. Shaw has been
kind to Joan’s judges. . Any fanatics are
made comic figures. The judges are patient,
kindly, trying hard to save her soul. Only
they cannot let her go free; and she reso-
lutely prefers death to a life-sentence. Sybil
Thorndike’s natural inability to look 17 is
quickly accepted, and then she dominates
the scene; an obstinate, humorous, country
wench mainly, feminine,only,.in[her, fear of
pain, but able to lose,it.in.the great ,moments.
An unforgettable performance. Two fine
pieces of acting are a rough country squire,
and the Bishop, smooth, deadly, but just;
and both are by Lewis Casson, husband of
the star. (He is producer too.) Their
son Christopher also takes two parts. The
young king, undignified but no fool, is
Martin-H'arvey, junior—and it might be
Leslie Victor talking. The elocution all
round is great, and Shaw’s jibes at England,
the military, and the church get every ounce
of their value. (By the way, Australia will
have to get used to hearing “The Bastard”
used as a title of honor for a son of the
royal house.) The careful costuming is of
the period, elaborate rather than beautiful.
It is all lavished on men. Apart from the
Maid (in- plain male attire), there is no
room for women here; and why one of them
has been' cast as the courtier afterwards to
be known in history, as “Bluebeard” is past
comprehension. . ‘
■; - ■ * # - *
“The Constant Nymph,” which Doris Fit-
|ton’s. Independent Theatre coiripany did so
well last year, is being'revived for a month
of Saturdays at Sydney , Savoy; The 1932
production suffers 1 nothing .in comparison
with the 1931 performances. -Newcomers
to the cast include O. G. Rissett as Charles
Churchill, Leila K'eating'e as Linda Cowlard.
Pauline Hehriques'as Suzanne 'and Rosalind
Spence as Madam Marxse. k The last-named
character was previously' played by Doris
Fitton, who, in the present version, is re-
markably effective as Florence Churchill.
Grace! Hart,is still the wistful little heroine,
Richard Parry the temperamental musician,
Marie ROsenfeld the vivacious Antonia, and
Charles Degotardi Roberto. Rehearsals
have commenced for “The Young Idea,” a
modern comedy by Noel Coward, and “Cap-
rice,” a Viennese comedy by Sil Vara. Other
productions awaiting casting are “Mrs.
Moonlight,” by Benn W. Levy, and “Red
Wedding/’ a French Revolution drama, by
I-laagen Holenbergli. :
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Careless Lady,.” at, Sydney Regent, is
“Cinderella” brought up to date. The modern
■flapper isn’t interested*in;a drudge who gets
off with. a . palpably female . prince. She
prefers to picture herself going abroad,
wearing a succession of Paris frocks, being
competed, for by fashionable rakes, and being
•won, in tlie end, by a virile .young million-
aire. If she is able to return to the old
home, and show those who failed to appre-
ciate one of the most fascinating girls in
the . worldwhen they had the chance what
idiots they were, why ;so - much the more
thrilling. Joan -Bennett enjoys these experi-
ences at the Regent. The'show makes an
even stronger appeal to those who see them-
selves in every talkie, -heroine.. Joan has
travelled to Paris as, Mrs. Stephen Illington,
never dreaming, poor child, that-John Boles
,is Illington, and will turn up and claim her
as his. wife, and. give her. a long, luscious kiss
before h’er.friends, and go so far —ah, horror!
.—as to insist on sharing her hotel suite.
More than-once the 'entranced /fan fears that
he may force his way into the distracted
maiden’s .very b-d-r-m! She averts this
outrage, by, fleeing back to the U.S.A. —aflame
with love for him,'as he is for her—where,
after a few- minor complications, she is
gathered to his arms.. . It .is.; an ingenious
example of what might be called high-minded
pornography, from the first shot of Joan in
her brief pantalettes to the sensuous finish,
the screen equivalent of .an Ethel Dell novel,
or one of those newspaper. articles which
print spicy details “for the public good.”
The casting of the principals is cynically
efficient —Miss Bennett.. the last word _in
viriginal femininity ; Boles, a large masculine
fascinator. All the other players are sound,
and some, of the photography is brilliant.
The hero of .“The . Expert,the other
Regent picture, is a limelighting septua-
genarian—one of those who in real life make
shivers run down the-.spine.- He comes to
.stay with his son,, and dodders about ruining
the- furniture, spoiling his daughter-in-law’s
. parties, , and, generally, making a genial,
warm-hearted old . pest of .himself, till he
retires, providentially. ,to a home full of
loquacious back-slapping dotards like him-
self. Chic Sale provides. a study of senile
vanity and pushfulness 1 which is as clever,
in its painful way, as anything that has been
done in the way of film ancients, and Dickie
Moore is uncannily natural as the small boy
who makes friends with him.
* * *
Sydney Mayfair has two Columbia pic-
tures. “Maker.of Men”.deals with the game
Americans call football, Jack Holt is Dud-
ley, a coach, who' insists on his son Bob
(Richard Cromwell), playing football, though
the poor lad is afraid of getting hurt. This
fear causes him to los.e a match, and Dad
kicks him out of the team. ' Bob goes to
the opposition college. Two, years later he
plays against his ,old team-mates and runs all
over them, causing Dad to lose his job, but of
course Dad doesn’t care. The other film, “The
Final Edition,” vamps up some newspaper
office settings. Sob-sister Anne (Mae Clarke).
sacked by the raucous, frogmouthed city editor
(Pat O’Brien), who' loves her, hunts down
Malvern (Bradley Page), the murderer of
the new police commissioner, just to prove
she’s a good reporter. After flirting with
Malvern at a seaside hotel, she pinches the
incriminating papers that involve, too,
criminal-lawyer Selby (enthusiastically por-
trayed by Morgan Wallace). Selby’s men
capture her, but she’s rescued.
* * *
“Consolation Marriage” (R.K.0.) at Syd-
ney Haymarket tells an unoriginal story.
Pat O’Brien is Steve, a sporting journalist
who has climbed from humble beginnings to
a position of some importance in the news-
paper world. After reaching liis goal he
reminds Elaine (Myrna Loy), a pampered
daughter of the rich, of a promise to wait
until he had made a name for himself, but
the lady has engaged her affections else-
where. So Steve takes to the bottle, and in
between drinks meets Mary (Irene Dunn),
who has also been jilted. They decide to
marry, on the understanding that each is at
liberty to do as he or she pleases. Things
go well until Elaine and Aubrey (Lester
Vail), Mary’s old sweetheart, appear on the
scene. Steve and. Mary toy for a while with
-the idea of clearing out-with their., old loves,
but eventually realise that they would- be
happier together. “The Saddle Buster”
(Radio), at the same house, is a story of
hard riding and hard fighting for the goil.
Montana (Tom Keene) joins up with a
Wild West show, is desired by the flashing-
eyed Rita (Marie Quillan), a scheming
vamp, is disliked by the rascally Ranee
Gaines (Robert Fraser) and loved by Sunny
(Helen Foster). The piece gallops through
the usual incidents to the usual ending.


.
i
gggg
■
mm
m
m
tm
m
m ,
11®
P
: ;
B
PiMwiiiii
:
i!:iiisis:«S4;6a
11
mm
«
m
I a
■
S
■nii
Mi
m
rnmmm
-
li!
m
I
- Ss
Hi
, :
m
m
■
■
■
H
s
H
> sx
H
■
111
H
ill
■
m ■ ■■ :
■
.. 4 .:
I
V
E N E
JierJ&ct
aor
(JfoMem
EKCE FUSED LISLE....FULLY FASHIONED
7h
per pair .. WITH HAND EMBROIDERED CLOX
p.er pair


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius .. 10,000 tons, June 13
tThemistocles 12,500 „ Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 ~ Oct. 18
ICeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 25
•First class only. {First and third class,
{Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
, world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
mm
I l
m m i
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment*
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Cadonga”: Finding that Dad read a
good deal, the hawker produced from his
covered waggon a stack of books. He
handed Dad a bulky dictionary with the
remark that it was the best dictionary on
the market, and a bargain at five bob. Dad
turned the pages interestedly; then, pursing
his lips, he looked at both, back and front of
the tome. “No!” he said emphatically, “I
won’t have it. It ain’t got no index.”
REFUND.
McSCREW (pressing for admission to Heaven): “But on’y a year ago I gi’ed a pair
blind mon tuppence.”
ST. PETER ( pulling two coppers from his trousers pocket): “Here, take your tuppence
and go where you belong.”
“Dogger”: The old-time Maoris were not
the only folk to use big nets for sea-fishing
(B. 25/5/’32). A trip to the Scottish
or English herring fleets in the North Sea
or the Atlantic would soon settle that con-
tention. The drift nets used by the herring
men are, like those of the Maoris, made
in sections. These are linked together
until the total length of a “drift” may
be miles long. They are an infernal
nuisance to navigation in the North Sea,
and the German submarine crews feared
them even more than the special dragging
and netting forces detailed to fish for them
only.
* * * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: “Worsted Spur” (B.
18/5/’32) and those who share his be-
liefs in regard to this horse-
“lifting” business are them-
selves confused as to what is
actually meant. It is not sug-
gested that the rider, by means
of some miraculous action
around the seat of his pants,
raises the horse high into the
air and deposits it on the other
side of the jump. No. The
“lift” movement is controlled
entirely by the legs, and
“Worsted Spur” can practise it
himself sitting on an ordinary
chair (facing the back) with
his feet off the ground. If he
is not decrepit he ought to be
able to “lift” the chair a little
way oft the ground. With the
horse all that is needed is suffi-
cient impulsion to raise the
forehand. The “aids” will col-
lect the horse, keep it in hand
and propelled continually for-
ward. They will prevent the
horse running out, or backing
away from the obstacle; but no
amount of “aids” will urge the
horse to raise its forehand off
the ground—if unwilling. And,
as a last resort, the horse can
walk through the obstacle in
spite of all “aids.” The “lift”
is also psychological. Has
“Worsted Spur” never heard
cavalry instructors enjoin on
recruits (at jumping px-actice
in the riding school) to fix their
eyes on a mark on the end wall
and make up their minds to get
there? And the Fillis I men-
tioned was a Frenchman. At
one time he was instructor in
the cavalry equitation school at
St. Petersburg. I know noth-
ing of the Cape Dutchman who
travelled with a circus. Doubt-
less, hundreds of circuses
roamed the world under the name of Fillis.
It was a good trade name.
* * * :!'
“Waikikamoukau”: Hundreds of city folk
were trooping into a Pitt-street cafeteria
at lunch hour. On the pavement was a dog
voraciously devouring a nicely-cleaned un-
cooked rabbit. He was a poverty-stricken
dog, and he applied himself most assiduously
to his task. One dear old lady, as she with-
drew her shoe from a succulent hindquarter,
murmured compassionately to her companion,
“Some kind lover of animals must have taken
pity on the poor dog. There are still some
good people in the world.” Inwardly I agreed
with her, but I wondered why the Samaritan
should have chosen such an unhealthy spot
for his good deed. The mystery was solved
a block farther down the street. There I
overtook a gentleman who was maintaining
his equilibrium with undisguised difficulty.
Under one arm he carried one of those
double-barrelled brown parcels with which
we see suburbanites diving out from hos-
telries on the stroke of six. Under the other
he tightly squeezed a sanguinary sheet of
newspaper, which unmistakably had re-
cently been the sarcophagus of a rabbit,
“ ’Tshall right,” he gurgled, as he cannoned
me into the gutter, “I’ve got my beer and
Mary’s (hie) rrbbo. ’Tshall right.”
KNOCK-OUT.
DAD: “There’s a cove over there wants to fight you, Jacky. What’s yer fightin’
weight?”
JACKY: “No wait, Boss—run like biases.”
“0. Coral”: Encouraging the principles
of good citizenship and right conduct, one
of the native teachers in the islands has
been initiating his pupils into the conven-
tions relating to stores and places where
they sell things, and the following is taken
from a sheet pasted up in his school: “The
person who keep a store is a storekeeper or
a merchant, that is, a man who buys things
and sell them to others. You are cus-
tomer buying things from his shop. You
want things, give him money, he will give
you what you want if your money is enough.
Do not forget to say on entering ‘Good
morning, sir,’ or if more than one ‘Good
morning, gentlemen.’ If a woman is serv-
ing you must say ‘Good morning, Madam,’
or ‘ladies’ if there are all women serving.
Of course use words as to the time of day.
Always try to understand time to say
‘please’ or ‘thank you.’ Don’t lean or sit
on the counter when you are inside unless
the shopman let you, but of course this is
not usually happens.” I can see the startled
look of amazement on some of the shopmen’s
faces when a frizzy-headed gentleman hands
out the above formula in response to the
inquiry of “Well, Jimmy, what kind thing
you look round for buy?”
* * * *
“Stiff”: Newport is a N.S.W. seaside
resort which prides itself on its extreme
swankiness. Nevertheless, the depression
is making itself felt there as elsewhere.
The local progress association wrote
recently to the Newport Council asking for
three more wire refuse-baskets. In a reply
refusing the request, the Council acidly
referred to the fact that if residents
of Newport had not pinched the baskets
already established and converted them
into fish-traps there would have been no
necessity for replacement. It added that,
when the surfing season came round again,
it would instal some new baskets, but would
make a point of padlocking them to some-
thing very strong and heavy.
* * * *
“Icthus”: The annual migration up the
east coast of Australia of the vast shoals of
sea mullet is now in full swing. The densely-
packed masses do not come from the depths
of the sea like some other migratory
fish, but are reinforced from the mouth of
every inlet, river and creek the pioneers
pass on their journey northwards. As
spring approaches, the fish, which have
been lying in landward waters, make for
the sea and join the great shoals as surely
as does the reserve soldier when he gets
the order to mobilise. Fish caught on their
way to the sea are full of spawn. The trip
is the puzzling part of the mullet’s life-story,
Though shoaling at breeding-time in the
open sea, as the herring and his kind do,
the mullet does not spawn pelagically.
After their saltwater swim Papa and
Mamma mullet go back to the inshore
waters again, and there attend to the busi-
ness of raising a family, after which they
remain there recruiting for next season,
At sea, man, sharks, porpoises, tailer and
giant mackerel take a heavy toll of the
helpless millions. But there always seem
to be enough left to begin the process all
over again next spring, and so on, da capo.
* * * *
“Tyke”: It may seem odd to some
people that the death of a dog should have
ruptured amicable relations between Britain
and Venezuela, but such is the fact. W. E.
O’Reilly, British Minister to Venezuela,
has been recalled at the request of the
Spigotty Government. There was a rabies
scare in Caracas, and one morning the
Minister found his favorite Airedale pois-
oned, though he was wearing a collar with
the Minister’s name and address, and should
thus have enjoyed diplomatic immunity,
Mr. O’Reilly deposited the corpse on the
doorstep of the Department of Public
Health with a note accusing the chief paten-
fate thereof of being guilty of canicide.
His recall followed. Mr. O'Reilly evi-
dently stood by his dog, as the dog would
have stood by him. The happening recalls
the American legend of the
-—man who owned a dawg,
A one-eyed, ornery cuss.
Yet that theer dawg got that theer man
Into many an ugly muss,
For the man went on his muscle,
, n< l th . e . I we, l lt on llis bit . e >
An wnf°h™!™i ammiU
' * o * a ' g * ' *
“Fama” ; The Maoris of the Ninety-mile
Beach have provided N. Smith with a fair
excuse f or his failure to attempt the mile
record. They have written to an Auckland
newspaper a letter, inscribed with the point
a s h e ll on flax leaves, exulting at the, dis-
CO mfiture of Smith, whom they describe as
a “ res tl e ss pakeha tohunga, who with his
w hj z chariot desecrated the beach of Te
wharo, which is tapu, because over it the
spirits of the Maori people pass on their
way to Te Reinga.” The letter explains that
the Maoris’ own tohunga, Maminga Timi-
hanga, consulted Tangaroa, god of the
ocean, and Tawhiri Matia, god of the winds
and storms, and they sent “East-wind, Long-
rain and Big-wave to foil the strange pakeha
and make his chariot blaze with anger.” The
missive concludes, “We will invoke Ruai-
moko, god of volcanoes, next time, and you
know what he can do with a shrug of liis
shoulders.”
THE BLACK SHAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sentry-like, on a jutting snag
Out in the clear lagoon,
Vague and mystic, the old black shag
Stands in the quiet noon.
Water-weed on his throbbing throat,
Poised, with his pinions spread,
He is drying his glistening coat,
Swaying his snake-like head.
Round a log, on the nearer bank,
Relics of feastings grow—
Mussel-shells in the grasses rank,
Dug from the mud below.
Though ungainly to look upon,
Whether on wing or tree,
In the deep where his food is won
Graceful and swift is he.
Head and neck and stiletto beak
Straight as a shooting spear,
See him glide like an inky streak
Over the marsh or mere.
Diving swift where the yabbies prowl,
Chasing the finny kind,
Little in water, fish or fowl,
Leaves the black shag behind.
Lover of lakes and the lonely crag,
Greedy, alert and shy,
Hated of men is the old black shag,
“Grating and harsh” his cry ;
So they say; yet I like to hear,
Now in the quiet noon,
Cormorant calls that are quaint and clear
Over the broad lagoon.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex«
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. .. £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted . . . . . , . . . . Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville. *
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
The Future of
Investments
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
for June, now on Sale, dis-
cusses how the market is
likely to move.
CAN THIS THING GO ON?
Under the heading “Stabilisa-
tion” it also considers a
scheme of currency reform.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“C. Coral”: Mabuiag Island, in Torres
Strait, possesses a school for its native popu-
lation which has a good many unique fea-
tures. The teacher is a versatile English-
man who has some talent with the pencil,
and the walls and roof of the leaf-thatched
building are adorned with large colored
sketches of all the navigators who have
passed through North Australian waters from
the time of the Spaniards and the Dutch.
On tables are large models of London docks,
the Suez Canal, Torres Strait and its vari-
ous lines of shipping, etc., and a clever device
in a series of pictures on the walls enables
one to see at a glance what the various
marine products of the Strait, are and where
they go to. If the youngsters don’t learn
something about their own country and
its products it. won’t, be their teacher’s fault.
By the way, he is a keen historian, and is
engaged on compiling a record of European
association with his island from the earliest
times, a.s well as doing his bit with those
who are just now endeavoring to work out
which way Torres and his offsider Do Prado
(or De Prado and Torres, if you like) made
their eventful way through the Strait.
* * * *
“Lava”: The volcanic eruptions in Chile
have been providing Maoriland and Aus-
tralia with some extraordinarily beautiful
sunsets. In the Dominion .some brilliant
aurora displays and highly colored prismatic
moon haloes have also marked the unusual
condition of the upper air, charged with
dust particles that have been wafted 5000
miles or so by westerly winds. On the
N. S. Wales seaboard, 1500 miles further
away, on one of the few evenings in the
latter part of May when the sky was free
from clouds the sun near its setting was
tinged a peculiarly vivid carmine, and the
whole sky, just after the sunset, was tinted
NO HEAD TO UN ’TALL.
“That little School-o’-Mines know-all asked me why us dedn’ have
two ladder-ways in shaft —one for to clemb down, I s’pose,
an’ one for to clemb upT K
“The iggerance av un, Cap’n! Dedn’ ’e know us do alius come up
in the bucket?”
a purply cerise. Color of any sort in the
clear .sky. of course, is caused by the
presence of dust. If the atmosphere could be
vacuum-cleaned the “blue vault of heaven”
would appear coal-black, even at noon.
Maoriland sunsets are particularly prone
to show the influence of volcanic disturb-
ances anywhere in the Pacific. The Dom-
inion still remembers the wonderful dis-
plays that occurred after the eruption of
Krakatoa in the first decade of the century,
when a gorgeous pink haze suffused tbe
landscape at. the end of each day.
“Ivooragai”: I was looking
at the little funnel-shaped pit
of the ant-lion, -which is the
larvae of a four-winged insect
like a small dragon-fly, when
an ant slipped over the edge.
The sides of the pit were com-
posed of loose sand or dust, so
fine in comparison with the
surroundings as to suggest that
the stuff was ground. It slipped
from under the ant, who seemed
instinctively to realise his peril,
and struggled desperately to
reach the top. But it was like
climbing a treadmill; a rapid
scramble, a .small gain and then
a slide back. All that could be
seen of the watching trapper
was his powerful mandibles,
sticking through the sand at.
the bottom, ready and waiting
to grab the victim of his wiles.
Though only half an inch long
with six legs, in his fortress he
is a powerful giant, but haul
him out of that and he is a
pygmy that any ant can kill,
liis strength is in his head, and
he seems to have some thinking-
power there also. Between the
jaws of death and the solid
top there was only a space of
two inches, but the harder the
ant worked the more the walls
of the snare crumbled. He dug
his feet in and heaved, and
waved his antennae frantically
for help. All in vain. But his
rapid kicking was likely to strip
the treacherous powder from
the .slope and give him a foot-
hold at last. So the trapper
began to heave sand at his vic-
tim from the vortex below. He
scooped it) up with' his head and
with a catapult action projected
it accurately at the scrambling
ant. Shower after shower was
thrown up, till finally the ant
went down with a run, was
seized by the powerful jaws and drawn down
out of sight.
* * *
“Erua”: In Poverty Bay (M.L.), where
50 years ago wild tobacco plants flourished.
it was generally
believed that
Captain Cook,
who had dealings
with the natives
in those parts,
introduced t h e
plants, but didn’t
instruct the
.Maoris how to
use the leaf. They
found far more
interest and pro-
fit in his other
introduction, the
pig.
* *
“ Franciscan ”:
The metatarsals
occur not only
in the case of
the horse (B.
il/5/’32), but in
birds. In the
adults the three
bones of the
middle hand,
called the meta-
carpals, are so
completely
blended as to
give the impres-
sion that they
have all been cast,
as. it w’ere, in a
single mould,
whilst the three
bones that go to
form the middle
bones of the foot,
the metatarsals,
are combined into
a single solid
shaft. But in
the young bird
this shaft is tra-
versed by three
fine seams, and
in the embryo not
only are these
bones separated
but there is evi-
dence of there having been as many as five
digits, as in the reptilian foot. The fourth
digit exists in many living birds, but no
bird, living or extinct, is known in which
the fifth toe is present.
“Kaipana”: It is the superior “Bihai”
and not myself who slips in regard to the
presence of women on the wrecked lakatoi,
the crew of which were rescued by the
Government yacht Laurabada near Port
Moresby (B. 25/5/’32). My latest “Papuan
Cburier” gives a full account of the liap-
THE ONE THING IN THE WAY.
BERTIE FROM BOW: “Bai Jove, isn’t that natural? You would think you could milk her."
DAD FROM DUNGOG: “Yer could, too, if she wasn’t a bullick.”
pening, quoting the number of women
among the rescued. The rest of the infor-
mation supplied by “Bihai” as to the
lalcatoi voyages and their origin would have
been more interesting if it had not been
periodically appearing in Government reports
and pamphlets for the last 50 years or so, to
say nothing of the works of hundreds of
tourists who have visited Papua and written
books about it.
* $ * *
“Waikikamoukau”: A peewee has estab-
lished a proprietary interest over the beau-
tiful Archibald fountain-group in Hyde Park.
Every lunch-hour that the fountains are
playing he asserts his black-and-white land-
lordism. He comes with much ceremony.
As a preliminary he does a sort of aerial
hornpipe in the spray and then perches him-
self on the extremity of the central figure’s
outstretched arm, where, with the jet playing
upon his tail feathers, he defies the world.
When sufficiently wet he moves off with be-
coming dignity, in slow, circular flight, to
the top of St. Mary’s Cathedral, there, pre-
sumably, to have his drying-out and rub-
down. He appears to be boss of that noble
structure, also, for at his approach sparrows
and other feathered plebeians make a hur-
ried departure.
❖ ❖ *
“Single-Shot”: “FY7’s” instance (B.
23/3/’32) is not the only case of the wedge-
tailed eagle feeding on live cattle. At Ulan
(N.S.W.) several years ago a lad of 17
was riding through the bush with a rifle
when his attention was attracted by unusual
bellowing. He entered an oak scrub at a
gallop and saw a large wcdgetail eagle com-
fortably stuck on the back of a 15-months-old
heifer. The lad fired and missed, but another
shot wounded the eagle, which was now well
up. It began to come down in awkward drops.
Then the eagle’s mate swooped from high in
the sky to its assistance, and, getting under-
neath, supported and helped its crippled
partner till they were out of sight over the
nearest hill. The calf lived, but only one
eagle patrolled the sky for some weeks.
t- * * *
“Macti”: An interesting little fish that
swims about the reefs in Torres Strait when
the tide is low is one the islanders call
“Caruso-Wap.” He is only about 3in. long,
but is a rich red color, with black bands round
his body, and he is perpetually hovering over
or above a curious spongy-looking growth
which when touched clings to the hand like
the tentacles of an octopus, opening and
closing what the islander terms its “mouths.”
“That one is proper home belong that fish, ’
they informed me; “he can’t go away from
there.” And so I found it. Other small fish
darted for shelter beneath the coral, but this
little chap remained swimming with his
head towards the “house” exactly like the
magnetised toys that one sees; and every
time he was removed he swam back against,
the tide. Lifted out of the water and de-
posited some distance away, he immediately
made for “home,” and stuck his nose into
the mass of marine life that had such keen
attraction for him. He would prove a splen-
did pet for children.
* £ *
“Roga”: During the early days of the
gold-rushes, in the hills around the old min-
ing town of Cassilis (Vic.) and on the plains
of Swifts Creek, many christenings were
performed in an old, long-forgotten hotel
on the threshold of the Alps. More than a
few residents cf Swifts, Creek to this day
will tell you that they were christened “in
a pub.”
❖ i'i ❖
“Frigid”: Central Q. owns one of those
Australian mysteries, a salt lake hundreds
of miles from the sea. This is Lake
Buchanan, a hundred miles to the south of
Charters Towers, which contains immense
deposits of salt, coarse in the lake-bed and
fine as table salt in the surrounding caves.
When full it measures about 10<0 miles
around, and when dry is just a bed of salt,
dazzling to the eye. People go there and get
a load of coarse salt when they wish to salt
meat. Otherwise it isn’t much use, as the
nearest railway station, Pentland, is 90
miles distant.
* * *
“Waranbini”: A man with a mysterious
air and a horrible smell about him inquired
in a low voice if I knew ambergris. Think-
ing he might be referring to an imported
musician or an ambassador from Moscow, 1
hesitated. From his coat pocket he produced
a greasy substance and asked: “Is that it?”
To escape from the vile stuff 1 confessed
that I wasn’t a judge, and advised him to
take it to Rod Quinn, the only fish expert
I knew* Rod directed him to a chemist 14
miles away, and the chemist told him to
hurry away and bury it, or he might be
arrested for offensive behavior. I met
another grease-comber at Collaroy. “What
do you think of that?” he asked, displaying
a white lump of powerful fragrance. It
had the mildewy-streaked appearance of the
scent basis, but was identified by an ancient
mariner as mast polish from a Hongkong
boat.
HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are the broken men—we
Who have fought the incessant years
And lost. Drought, flood, fire that sears,
And hopes that have fallen and turned
to tears.
Down with the broken men!
We are the broken men. Aye,
The girl who turned from us in our need,
The wife whose faitli was a broken reed,
The friend who followed another’s lead!
Bitter the broken men !
We are the broken men. No!
By the steel that makes success.,
By the will that drives, no less
Than the pluck that clears the mess—
Up, ye broken men ! Hold and hope!
QUEENSLAND.
RALPH W. ATIENEY.


AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
<£bmmciiwcaltl) Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
t<o»”
feeen . ourchasifte YAtt eT * L reU' oS >
•sMftiPJtetf* <*>««**
us tbe
wisely sa v«
I ® Bl
** ,£&&s&***
ave’
\\*o'
o« s *;
oi
„t»« >t |“w6,
*«*««* -" 51 ”*' «id« t S
» oil> * , i,,»"»:;j>%‘ T v, w’KSm
iv*i£2Sg-s!^
<4-
in
S| I
m
ii
SMOKE-OH!
“This Glasgow interloper is drawing £4O a week
from the Labor movement.”— P. Coleman.
Not bad wages for Gardening.
ft- ft
“My husband bought me the dress and hat as a
peace offering.” —Divorce evidence.
Another case where it would have been
cheaper to continue the war.
ft- ft
“The ‘Leather King’ of Kansas (U.S.A.) has
married a woman who is dumb and settled 100,000
dollars on her.”
Anything for a quiet wife.
ft ft
BORROWED PLUMES.
From “The Diary of a Doctor Who Tells” :
A few who were tubercular: Milton, Keats,
Shelley, Emerson, Chopin, Bronte, Buskin, Kingsley,
Scott, Mrs. Browning, R.L.S., Jane Austen, Paganini,
Tolstoi, Gorky and a host of others.
(Names in this Diary are fictitious.)
Bacon, I have heard, posed under the
nom de plume “Shakspearc,” but I did think
these others were dinkum.
N.
ft ft
A “LABOR DAILY” LEADER-WRITER
VISITS THE OPERA.
The tragedy of Gilda’s fatal love for the
profligate of Mantua was unfolded last night
at. Her Majesty’s, when “Rigoletto,” an
adaptation of Victor Hugo’s class drama of
SHE: “That’s the last wedding I’ll go to
if they’re going to allow babies to be
present!”
HE: “Yes. They should have ‘No babies
expected’ on the cards.”
an effete, dissolute aristocracy, was rendered
before an audience of smug, well-fed bour-
geoisie apparently totally oblivious to the
surrounding economic misery engendered by
the Alias Minions and biassed T.B. press of
the bowelless money-mongers. Had Verdi’s
tuneful music been wedded to a nobler theme,
such as the simple loves and lives of the
Lang Planners or the aspirations of the
Socialisation Unit of the Proletarian Move-
ment, the entertainment would have been
more acceptable to true lovers of Demos.
The singing of the great quartette (“Bella
figlia dell’amore”) strikingly illustrated the
pressing need for unison and solidarity in
the great, throbbing heart of Labor if the
Cause is to triumph in the great fight now
being waged by our courageous leader against
Privileged and Vested Interests backed up
by the foul underworld of 800 Guardism.
Rigoletto’s bitter, futile denunciations of the
“vile race of courtiers” (analogous to the
half-witted snobocracy of our present day as
typified by the tony Union Club) bring poig-
nantly to mind the thought that, had there
been a Jesters’ Union in those far-off unen-
lightened days, with a strong Executive and
Organising Secretary, the suffering and
tragedy of the hunchback would have been
averted, and the power of an upstart poten-
tate, lord of life and death, been curbed and
perhaps shattered by some mediaeval Jack
Lang.
The coloratura soprano, Signora Casta
Oilla, as Gilda, was successful, though her
opportunities were limited through the
librettist’s failure to provide her with a more
democratic motif. Had “Caro Nome” been
an apostrophe to an honest journeyman
plumber instead of to an autocratic scion of
a money-grubbing ducal family, or had the
tender and passionate duets been with a
Trades Hall official, what a moving appeal
it would have made to the masses!
Although musically attractive the whole
opera reeks with the poison of the alleged
“upper” classes and the moral degeneracy
ever to be associated with inherited wealth,
which is now—as it was then—the sociologi-
cal curse of a Mammon-ridden society, whose
inexorable downfall will yet be laid to the
eternal credit of our beloved ex-Premier and
Premier-to-be. Lang Is Right!
ft *
“Nude man arrested in Bay-street, Port Mel-
bourne.”—“Sun.”
Well, they’ve got something on him now.
OTHER-WORLD JOURNALISTS.
“It would be interesting to know the ideas of
great figures of the past about present-day condi-
tions.” — “Argus” correspondent.
When the mediumistic staff of the “Daily
Driveller” gets into working order the fol-
lowing articles are confidently expected :
“Politics in 1932,” by George Washington.
“The Nude Cult,” by Lady Godiva.
“Six O’clock Closing.” by Omar Khayyam.
“Menace of Divorce,” by Henry Vlli.
“The Lang Plan,” by Captain Kidd.
T. B.
“Lang organisers on the coalfields have had the
boycott removed from certain shopkeepers in the
hope of getting their yotes.”
With canny folk, whose gumption breaks
at evens,
A subterfuge like this is wholly vain;
If Moscow should succeed in licking Stevens
They know the Reds will call them black
again.
BEATING THE DEPRESH.
Why Not Make One of These Jobs
Yours?
A few helpful tips for the unemployed by an
observer in close touch with the N.S.W. situation.
Investment Adviser to Tin-hare Politicians.
Suitable for ruined financiers. In our ex-
Premier we have a simple Son of Toil who
must be hard put to it, betimes, to know
what to do with his Politician’s Mite. A
pathetic trifle of £13,000-odd is, as all know,
put away for the proverbial rainy day at
a satisfactory rate of interest. But what
of other nest-eggs? A highly satisfactory
income should be earned by finding safe and
profitable storehouses for them on a com-
mission basis in the festering Courts of
Mammon.
Assistant Coat-turner to Alderman Garden.
A steady billet here for one of the commu-
nity’s out-of-work tailors, valets, twicers, or
what not. Our Scottish visitor has on dif-
ferent occasions affected the kilt of his clan,
the sable frock of the Baptist divine, the
khaki of the Digger (home-service work
only), the shabby lounge suiting of the
Domain spruiker, the neat grey smock of the
believer in the evangel of Moscow, and the
plutocratic garb suited to his position as a
leading city car-owner and member of the
N.R.M.A. Many more sartorial changes are
due before he assumes either the Court suit
of Governor-General or the still more re-
splendent costume of a revolutionary field-
marshal. A whole-time job, this, for some-
body.
Suppliers of Gars, ’Planes and Funk-holes.
Experienced escapologists will find con-
genial employment here. There is no need to
wait for the Revolution to get busy. Thou-
sands may be relied on to take to their
heels long before the blood starts to flow.
The Trades Hallites will bolt practically
en masse at the sound of the first shot; like-
wise the noisiest of the Empire Men. Don’t
be chary about putting Ivs.B.E. and Lang-
SKINNY: "Wot would you do if yer ’ad a job at ten quid a week?”
PUDDIN': “I’d have two helpings of everything.”
planners in the same ’plane. Cowardice will
make cobbers of them all.
Advisers on Vice-regal Etiquette.
Here we have an opportunity for ex-
As.D.C. to express themselves on useful as
well as profitable lines. With the replace-
ment at our Government Houses of pro-
fessionals, such as Sir Philip Game, by
amateurs, a host of delicate problems in
social behavior will arise. Should High
Court Judges be accused of corruption at
formal dinner-parties? Must the “Red Flag”
be substituted for the National Anthem on
the arrival of his Ex. at Butchers’ Picnics
and the like. Should haggis and brose
appear on the G.H. bill of fare daily, in
deference to the State’s resident rulers, or
should they be alternated with grass soup
and vodka as a fraternal gesture to N.S.W.’s
spiritual home? These and kindred ques-
tions going to call for expert handling.
ft ft
“But for the Commonwealth, N.S.W.’s credit
would be entirely destroyed.”-— S. M. Bruce.
There’s no doubt N.S.W. owes a lot to
the Commonwealth.
ft ft
“An operatic company in the U.S.A. is being
sued for damages. The directors said the soprano
was ‘too promiscuous in her love affairs.’ ”
It wasn’t that she couldn’t sing.
The lady is a gonner
Because they thought her “not the thing”:
They want a primmer donna.
ft ft
THE BIFFKINS PLAN.
“At the Victorian State elections, 45,000 people
failed to vote, and will be liable to a fine of £2
each. As the cost of the election was only £16,000,
the State is likely to make a profit on the deal.”
It was this that suggested the Biffkins
Plan—an idea which is understood to have
driven the ex-Premier of N. S. Wales wild
with envy. “Under my scheme,” explained
the reformer, “elections would be held every
six months.”
“But what if everybody voted?” objected a
carper.
“There,” said Biffkins proudly, “you touch
upon the germ of the whole idea. Under my
system nobody will knoic of the elections till
they’re over. Taking, at a conservative esti-
mate, million voters in Australia, who
would each pay fines totalling £4 yearly,
this would give an extra revenue of
£10,000,0000 —nearly enough to enable the
Commonwealth to afford another Lang Ad-
ministration. And, with wealth such as this
flowing in, no one could cavil at the appoint-
ẃ
The Basic Wage has caused so many rows
that they’re talking of renaming it the
Basic Gage.
* *
The dove of peace at present seems only
capable of making flights of fancy.
«£ y
THE INDIVIDUALIST.
Right from boyhood he stood out as different
from his companions. He never imitated,
but went his own way with sublime in-
difference to others.
Asa young man he was the same —an
original, if ever there was one. To-day he
is middle-aged, and still ploughing his lonely
furrow. His stark unusualness, his utter
disregard for convention, is the talk of the
district. He is unique.
In brief, he has a job.
WIFE: “Reggie, I often hear other men
praising their wives. What makes you
so different?”
HUSBAND: “Different, my dear? Why, I
frequently do the same.”
REBUFF.
“Australian girls are quite able to look after
themselves. They learn about men from the movies.”
—Policewoman Benson.
A zephyr adrift on a moon-washed sea,
And a mutter of surf from the bay;
The boy-friend points to a shadowy tree,
And the maiden murmurs “Okay.”
He simulates piassion beyond control.
For his “pirate’s” repute is at stake;
His nasal plea drowns the ocean’s roll —
“Aw, goilie, give us a break!”
Ah! bitter her answer to sheikish ears;
It is old, but it always sounds new.
He has heard it from dozens in recent years —
The sophisticate’s icy, “Sez yew!”
10-2-4.


Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOR TIN-
DREDGING COMPANY, N.L.
A CALL (the 14th) of 1/- (One Shilling)
per Share has This Day been made on
all Shares issued in this Company, and will
be due and payable at the Registered Office
of the Company, A.M.P. Chambers, Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart, and/or Puket, West
Siam, at whichever office the Shares are
registered, on WEDNESDAY, 13th July,
1932.
By Order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, 27th May, 1932.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MEANS FOR
HANDLING DETACHED VEGETABLE
MATTER.
TTHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 25734/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WEIGHT INDICATOR FOR SCALES
THHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11035/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent. Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SANITARY
PAPER CUP MAKING MACHINE.
T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2378/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINES FOR
MAKING REINFORCED SANITARY
CUPS.
TTHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2376/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
STENHOUSE.
\Y/ANTED. —Present address of DAVID
w STENHOUSE, late of 119 James
Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, to his advan-
tage. V. F. KIRWAN, Solicitor, 119
Stephen’s Green, Dublin, Ireland.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
A North Queensland Woman
talks to her Southern Sisters
“JT’S not fair the way these so-called housewives’ associations in
the South misrepresent us sugar growers,’’ said the wife of an
Innisfail farmer. “I wish I could talk to them.”
CO let her talk to you, you
good housewives of the
South. This is her story;
when you read it ask your-
selves if your sisters in the
tropics are not entitled to
fair consideration.
&
&
Fi
I
6
m
“I’M the wife of a sugar-farmer at Innisfail.
I was born at Ballarat. My husband
was born in Melbourne. We came up here
at the time Mr. Hughes was making an appeal to sugar-
growers to supply all the sugar Australia needed.
Sugar could not then be imported under £BO a ton, and Mr. Hughes had fixed the Australian
price for raw sugar at £3O 6s. Bd. a ton to encourage farmers to meet Australia’s needs.
“We bought a small farm. We sank all our savings (and a lot more) into it. There looked
like a chance to make a decent living out of it. We equipped our farm with Victorian-made
implements, because we came from Victoria. It might have been silly sentiment, but we bought
the brands of groceries that we had known at home.
“Soon the price we got for our raw sugar dropped to £25 a ton. That made it harder to live,
harder to clothe ourselves and the youngsters, for nothing that we bought from you in the
South was any cheaper. Indeed, everything got dearer and dearer. Somehow or other, in those
early days of our struggles, you Southern people managed to raise your prices of all the things we
needed. You raised freights and fares, and taxes, too. Now, our return per ton of raw sugar has
fallen to about £lB. It is very hard on us who have struggled so hard, and yet you clamor for
a reduction in price that will save each family about threepence a Week and ruin us. It is not
fair of you! It’s not playing the game!’’
inserted bu the.
Sugar Growers of Australia
for the. information of the People
R.S.M.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is ' undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
Joan F.: At 18, of course, you would
write about “life.” But go on—you’ll turn to your
own emotions presently... .A.M.K.: Very slight....
Freeman: But why retell another’s emotions?....
M. : It gave us all the shivers... .Helen 0.:
So far you have only commonplaces to say; and
you don’t say them well R.L.M.: Sentimental
little chirp ; but when you’ve got all your feathers
you’ll probably do a full-throated trill R.W.A.:
Give “Blackbird” some attention. It is too labored.
....John H.: Limps doggedly on. Do you ever go
back to the rejected stuff ?... .Doleful Doleite: Sorry,
it can’t be done. 8.8. A.: No; but they have their
moments.. . .Motor Supplies: R.S.F., 70; both others
poor—somewhere under 60. But please don’t ask us
to adjudicate again... .Joseph A.: Sorry, they won’t
pass... .S.M.E.: , Can’t post criticisms. But your
course is plain. Read and write and write again.
And, incidentally, do much burning... .P.1.P.: All
show promise. One is acceptable... .6.L.R.: The
girl doesn’t sound worth the agony... .Miss E. 8.:
You’ll have to get some very rare music out of
the reeds at this time of day to win a place in
the orchestra... .Slieena: Try the flowery verse again
after you’ve made the humor flow more naturally.
....A. Ride: Didn't have to throw it; it went
there itself... .S.S.M.: Dear boy, don’t let anybody
persuade you that this is poetry. But you have
an ear for rhythm; keep that in tune and go on
reading and practising—and tearing up... .T.H.G.:
Breaks no new ground.... Margaret M.: Handled so
often all the freshness is off them.... John L. W.:
If your verse was as good as your heart, we’d make
an illustrated page of it... .D.8.M.: All out of
tune.... Sadego: If that is poetry, it would be
easy to be Laureate... .C.A.N.: The title is the best
part of it....Ehoa: Immature... .Pinimo: Your
long, involved sentences are too hard to f0110w....
H.C.S.: To get your rhymes you drag in some
banal sentences. For instance:—
Born with the cursed wanderlust,
Onward I go, for wander I must.
....Nance W.: ‘“ln the dark” is a little candle
that burns almost brightly enough... .Farmer’s Wife:
Ideas there, but indifferent handling. (P.S.: Copy
without signature, not necessarily for publication,
gets no welcome.)... .L. 8.1.: Heavy and trite....
Patricia: A pleasant change from the odes to Phar
Lap, anyway. But it takes nearly as much practice
to make a poet as a stockhorse... .Ivamilaroi:
Doesn’t matter whether they have wool to sell or
not. If they have wool-substitutes to sell they
are competitors i... C.T.R.: Off our beat... .W.H.S.
and H.R.I’.: Sorry, can give you no encouragement.
....Hu. Gr.: Some fair lines and some bad ones.
. ...G.P.F.: A lot more could have been done
with the subject. .. .M.E.M.L.: Needs a stronger plot.
. ...E.D.8.: Amusing, but it’s an oft-told tale....
N. : Too wordy, and you don’t get near enough
to your characters... .M.S.: Conventional trifle....
O. : Immature... .F.L.: There might be a market
elsewhere for it... .8.E.G.: Over-sentimental....
ILW.A.: Rambling... ,J.E.: You might get an Abo.
par out of it...,1.D.: Tale of bush misadventure
hasn’t enough meat on its bones... .F.11.W.: Dull.
....V. de L. E.: Hopeless at that length. About
300 words is the limit. Remember that an average
of 250 people ask to he heard ever}' week....
L.M.D.: Good idea, but handling rough as bags....
Vivien: Something the matter with your ear?
“Peak-reap,” “gone-morn” are liable to send the
muses to the dorgs... .8T47: Sorry, but we don’t
think, you could earn enough at it to buy bird-seed
for a canary... .Mirrabooka : Pretentious and common-
place. .. .E.E.H.: Slick, but superficial.... Bellerive:
Now, that’s a happy thought; let the living laureates
tell of those who’ve gone before. And for a start:
In sportsmen’s and old jockey’s
And grey-haired punter’s homes.
Treasured is a volume
Of Lindsay Gordon’s poems.
Scholar, bard and horseman
Daredevil of the past.
Who died by self destruction
While saddened and o’ercast.
... .W.H.: Decline of Ah Wall left us un-
moved. .. . W.M.F.: Some good stuff in it, but
the end is banal....E.P.F.: Told in the third person
the yarn would be more effective... .L.S.C.: Too
wordy.... H.G.L.: Have read of that dodge before.
.... 0.A.L.: Mere description of a bush race-meeting ;
no p10t... .A.T.: “Miracle of 2232” would be a
miracle of 1932 if it were . accepted.. . .G.M.D.:
Awakening from a dream ending is a stale trick.
. ...W.S.: On the lean side. .. .D.R.: Idea has been
dished up over and over again... .J. 1.: F.a.q., but
that won’t do these times.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.A.C.: Not a smile in either.....l. S.: What did
you try to draw? Two marrows and a football?....
D.M.: Only middling... .D. 8.: Not suitable for re-
production... .H.L.: Take more time over them....
D.P.: Colonel and the cook divide the week’s booby
prize... .E.R.W.: You must have drawn them with
frost-bitten fingers S.F.P.: Try us with something
in our line.... Y.G.K.: Needs trimming up....
J.M.1.: Hard to decide which we dislike the most.
J.S.: Perfect examples of what we don’t want.
. ...S.T.: “No Chance” is aptly titled... .E.G.:
Idea 01d... .C.H.D.: Neat penmanship for a young-
ster. Carry 0n... .F.W.W.: Mere imitators are not
encouraged here T.M.E.: You da follow the
news, don’t you? Have you perpetrated a cartoon on
the arrest of Governor Bligh ?.... D. 8.: Small boy
resembles a ventriloquist’s d 011... .F.H.: A trifle
better, but still very shaky... .G.G.: If your party
relied on your cartoons it would lose.—K.M.A.:
Unformed and scratchy... .D.R.: It got a few
laughs in the ’nineties... .T.H.: You have made
little progress since we last heard from y0u....
H.L.: Much ado about nothing... .D.M.C.: Lang’s
face is not hard to draw, but the job is beyond you.
. ... J.H.: No cheques for untidy sketches with
pointless jokes... .R.S.A.: Two also-rans... .M.J.:
Your line is too heavy... .F.H.: Unfinished —as
always.... A.P.: Too tripey for even a radio
humorist.


The most famous Horse
in the World
L
m
1
s.
' si
um
life®
■<
JIM
HRS*
■
,'///«
r ! 1
■v® l •//
I 4M
E Hli
H
/ V
£22
■
%
UK
Wall
li!
Pi
«*£**• -. s|p|> i jQgS
TKeOH3!aBB
i;
/(Et
rftoi*
Origin^
ta.b
iffiMi
$
SiilMl
■tBBSS'iIttSSs-jU I .
g£s33»aSSS
<m
HI
kss
xi’iV.ir.T ««"*".’•
•<M il," 11 "* *■•* Mil »■
.^ H, TE HORSE Olinuf^^F
!9m5
■B*ol
Bns
gig
i
!!SWi
HO does not know him ? Magazines from
“home” have carried his picture to the ends of the earth. Hundreds of thousands
of bottles bear him on their labels. Men of the world, the world over, know him as
the symbol of a fine, old Scotch Whisky that has been enriched and mellowed by
the passing of the years.
White Horse
V 1 SCOTCH WHISKY
THE SENIOR WHISKY OF SCOTLAND


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on 1
Edge .
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO .
RA YBES TOS”—with the Silver
Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
w
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
W <Alt/a ih <M
The Renrut Quadruple is the most efficient hand-pump on
the market. It is the result of over 30 years’ experience
in pneumatic engineering.
This remarkable pump works on a quadruple compression
principle, and although smaller in diameter than many other
pumps it delivers far more air per' stroke—with the
minimum of effort.
RENRUT QUADRUPLE
Supplied with Pusli-on Connector.
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
7 /
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
JERSEY U. SHORTHORN.
“Westbrook”: With plenty of culling to
keep up size, constitution and milk yield,
the A.I.S. should never have to take second
place to the Jersey. My experience is that
the profitable cow is the cow that wall
forage for herself in the paddocks and give
a good return without hand- or artificial-
feeding. Two cows of mine, aged 10 and
12 years, have just completed their 273-day
test. The first made 315.6851 b. butterfat,
the second 318.8611 b., and no hand-feeding.
They would have done better if they had
not struck a Darling Downs heatwave.
Except for some lucerne hay at nights dur-
ing the hardest part of the winter they have
fended f° r themselves since they were born.
Their grazing has been in cultivation pad-
docks and on natural grass ridges. They give
a calf each year and do not require more
than a couple of months’ spell between each
milking period.
It would be foolish to criticise a great
breed like the Jerseys ; but I consider pure-
breds are not nearly so robust as our cattle.
It is, of course, necessary to hand-feed cattle
for show purposes, but, taking the prices
we get for cream and milk at factories, to
spend 2s. or 3s. per head per day to stuff
your cows with crushed corn or oats and
bran and linseed and lucerne chaff while
they are in milk is not a payable proposi-
tion.
The old saying that the bull is half the
herd still holds good. I suggest that, the
A. I. S. Society should assist shows, wher-
ever there is a large entry of our cattle, by
subsidising prize-money for bull and three
of his progeny. This is the class that has
the merit of putting the buyer in the happy
position of knowing just what class of
stock a bull will produce. I am also greatly
in favor of following the lead of the Kiama
(N.S.W.) Show Society by giving a prize
for cows that have been in milk three or
four months. Six months or over would
please me better. If Australia is to trans-
fer itself from the sheep’s hack to that of
the cow, the A.I.S. is the beastie that will
prove the best load-carrier.
LAMB-MARKING.
“Aleibiades”: “Valerin’s” hints (B.
4/5/’32) are good here and there, but he
did not stress a vital point. Lambs must
be empty when marked, and must after
marking be got out on feed with as little
delay as possible. And I am for mustering
in small mobs. It facilitates mothering,
and without that the job is no good.
The best way to sharpen the knife is
to hang a steel from the belt, after the
butcher’s fashion. With a careless operator
—and they are all apt to get careless —-the
slit is a danger: it may result in a windgall
if it doesn’t kill the lamb first. Give me
the tip every time; it is quicker, neater and
more advantageous to the lambs.
“Valerin” advises feeling for the joint in
the tail. After marking anything over a
quarter of a million lambs I say it doesn’t
matter two straws whether the operator
finds the joint or not. If he is anxious to
find it let him hold his knife at an angle
of about 45 degrees with the tail, back of
knife pointing towards lamb’s belly. Held
in that position it will find the joint itself
every time, making the work easier on the
marker’s wrist —which is the only effect it
has. My points are: small mobs; quick
work; steady work; let the lambs mother
in the yard overnight before marking; get
them out on feed lively; after mothering
leave them alone and give the once-over next
morning a miss in baulk. It only disturbs
the sheep and does no good—it is too late
to try to mother any strayed sheep then.
“Bendee”: Sheepmen arc taking kindly
to the Shannon lamb-marking machine, to
which there have been a few references on
the M.O.L. page. It is in the form of a
cradle of bag or basil on an iron frame,
supported between posts set in the ground at
a convenient height. As the lamb is placed
on his back in the cradle an iron frame
swings over, gripping the hind legs above
the hocks without fear of hurt or injury,
and is then fastened with a strap and
button, which holds the lamb across the
belly. After the operation the strap is re-
leased and the cradle turns over endways,
putting the lamb out clear on to his feet.
Whether the work is done by one man or
by a team, it is a quick, safe and con-
venient method of holding and discharging
the lamb, and the cost is under 30s. per
machine. Mr. Shannon, manager of Rodney
Dowus station near Longreach (Q.), is the
inventor. He generously handed the patent
rights to Mr. John Beattie, of Broadview,
Kedron, Brisbane, who was badly injured
a few years ago in an accident on Rodney
Downs.’ Mr. Beattie is a contributor to
The Bulletin.
WHAT IS A COMMON 60’S?
“Sheepo”: No other type of wool is so
much quoted, yet not many woolgrowers
know what is meant by the term. It is
a wool of medium-fine quality, with a good
length of staple, robust and containing
plenty of body. As well as having these
qualities, the wool should be sound, of a
soft handle and comparatively bright. It
is essentially a combing wool. By 60’s is
implied that sufficient greasy wool will
make one pound of prepared tops that wall
spin 60 times 560 yards, or a single length
of thread a shade over 19 miles. In
simpler words it means that a wool of
a 60's type will spin 60 hanks of spun
yarn, each 560 yards long, t 0 the pouud
weight. The finer the wool the higher the
spinning quality, and the higher the value.
In our merino clips the spinning
qualities range from the common 60’s to as
high as 160’s. On the other hand, cross-
breds and English breeds range from the
finest Comeback and Corriedale, with a
spinning; capacity of 56-B’s, to the coarsest
Lincoln, which spins as low as 32’s.
PACK THE PACKS!
“Valerin”: Growers imagine that heavy
pressing spoils wool or gives buyers an un-
favorable notion of its condition; some
think to impress their brokers with the bulk
of the clip. Dumping bales to half their
compass for shipping is proof that the fibre
is not affected. The only thing that impresses
brokers is the proceeds.
The average bale weight of the 1931-32
season’s three million bales is only 3661 b.
It should be at least 3561 b., as it was years
ago. This extra pack weight means 400,000
fewer packs for use. At 4s. station delivery,
and 7s. for handling charges, it would effect
a saving to the industry of over £200,000.
PASTURE-IMPROVEMENT.
“6QJ”: There is a decided improvement in
the surface texture of the soil and in its
moisture-retaining qualities following the en-
couragement of vegetation, and of insect and
soil bacterial activities, through harrowing,
fertilisation and planting of sturdy grasses.
This can best be observed in any country
yard where there is a patch of barren
soil, or where the top soil has been removed,
leaving a dry, bare surface. As it stands
it will produce nothing and will parch up
in a hot or dry spell.' But scratch the
surface in cool, moist weather and estab-
lish strong-growing grasses during a wet
spell. Though they may burn out the first
year, they will have done good work. The
root fibres will have penetrated the soil;
as they decay there will be ah--pockets and
insect and bacterial life has been encouraged.
Once get vegetation to grow on poor soil
and you will have vastly improved its fer-
tility. The next year there is the nucleus
of a seed-bed, and if the first, crop has
seeded it will show up again much better
than before. The first good season wall
show" a wonderful change in the surface
texture of the soil, and it will be found to
retain its moisture far longer than before.
This is one of the great advantages of
pasture improvement. Moreover, the extra
bulk of root systems opens up the subsoils
and later feeds the soil with rotted vege-
table matter.
BIRDWOOD GRASS.
“Wodgil”: General Birdwood’s daughter
is married to Colin Craig, a member of a
well-known Westralian family of pastoralists.
To his son-in-law the famous warrior who
is “Birdie” to all Diggers sent a sample of
Ceuchrus hiflorus, which has proved itself a
good fodder plant in Lahore, India. The
experiment has proved a success; in a re-
port to the Westralian Government, Tropical-
Adviser Wise refers to Ceuchrus oiflorus as
“the introduction of the decade.”
“The Government botanist,” the official
proceeds, “is particularly struck with the
possibilities of this grass. Mr. J. Craig (of
Y'albalgo), Mr. G. Craig (of Maroonah and
Mundebulanga) and Mr. Mcßae (of And-
over) are doing all possible to spread this
desirable importation, which has proved
itself in such a short time. As happens
with many introductions, this grass is much
more robust in Australia than in its native
land. The department has procured further
seed; this year three sacks of seed have
been distributed through the North-West.”
In the past North Westralia, though it
contains far and away the best sheep and
cattle country in the State, was neglected
by the authorities at Perth. This foolish
policy has been departed from —as regards
the introduction of grasses from other parts,
at all events. The report which contains
the reference ro Birdwood grass adds:
“During the past two years many varieties
of grasses, shrubs and top feeds have been
introduced from such countries as Rhodesia,
the Transvaal, the southern provinces of
India, Arizona, Utah and other States in
U.S.A. It is believed that the natural flora
of such lands contains some growth which
will be of benefit to us in this State. Though
results are slow to get and a life’s work is
involved, every avenue is being pursued
whence a desirable introduction may be
drawn. Even wdthin our lands much improve-
ment is possible by fostering the desirable
growths of our own and other States. Mit-
chell grass, for example, was brought 1500
miles south in one move this season. It
is hoped that the districts south of the
Antrim Plateau, which is at present the
extent of the southern natural limits of this
valuable grass, will some day enjoy the
benefits of this and similar grasses.”
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Finn Lee”: It is an outstanding fact
that a new variety of any plant, properly
raised, tested and fixed by the specialist,
is invariably superior to varieties which have
been in cultivation for very many years.
Generally speaking, the same applies to
“sports.”’
A new variety of wheat has to satisfy the
demands of the farmer and the miller. The
farmer is not interested unless the new
variety is a better yielder than the variety
already on the farm, and then he wants to
know how it behaves when harvested with
the header. Is the straw stiff? Will the
plant stand a dry spell? Is it disease-
resistant?
The miller has different views. He wants
to know if the variety is firmly fixed —a
crop harvesting two or three different types
of grain does not appeal to him. Then the
main thing to him is the milling quality. Is
the bran easily separated? What is the
bushel weight (the higher the better, because
it means more flour) ? What will be the
color of the flour produced, and how readily
does the grain mill? The new variety must
prove superior in all these points before
the farmer and the miller thank the raiser,
whose task is no sinecure.
THREE BUSHELS PER INCH.
In 1930 M. T. Padbiiry, of Westralia,
established an annual prize for the wheat-
farmer who gets the highest acre-yield per
inch of rainfall during the growing period in
his State, which is reckoned as from May
1 to October 31. Last year the award went
to F. A. Williams, of Mangowine, who
stripped 3 bushels 231 b. of wheat per inch
of rainfall. The 1932 prize is shared by
F. M. and J. L. Atkins, of Jouerdine, north
of Mukinbudin, whose yield per inch was
three bushels flat.
On a rainfall of 648 points the Atkins
brothers took off 7291 bushels from 375
acres, their average per acre being 19 bushels
271 b. This acre-average was exceeded by
a number of competitors; for example, T.
Moore, of Indarra, got 314 bushels from
242£ acres; R. 11. White (Gnowangerup), 32
bushels from 270, and W. P*. Stewart (also
of Gnowangerup) 32 from 270. The fall in
each of these cases was a bit over 11 inches.
The biggest cropped area considered was
that of T. Smith and Sons, of Yarding, who
are among the most substantial farmers in
Westralia. They put in 2294 J acres, and
harvested 53,686 bushels, averaging 23
bushels 241 b., the rainfall being 942 points.
Mukinbudin is one of the “new” districts,
and is considered arid country. It has only
lately been tapped by a railway.
WHERE HORSE-BREEDING PAID.
“Bogaduck”: When tractors began to come
in an old S.A. cocky, who had handed his
farm over to his two sons, though he still
lived on the place, said: “This horse-selling
is going too far. I am going to buy mares.”
Everyone laughed at him, but he stuck to
the idea and bought about 30, paying at most
£l2 for good big draughts. H’e got two aged
mares still capable of dropping a foal for a
pound a leg.
The mares were run on hill pasture and
stubble, and received little in the way of stable
feeding. Altogether they dropped 56 foals.
All except the best of the brood mares were
sold this autumn, in lots of six and eight.
The youngsters averaged £4O a head ; older
horses brought £2O. After every expense,
including what sheep would have returned
if run on the same pasture, has been de-
ducted, that man has made £4 per week for
five years. And, to use his own words,
“I did only enough work to keep a fellow
from wanting something to do.”
NO BANANA GLUT.
“Azac”: In 1922, the peak year, Australia
produced about 1,300,000 cases of bananas.
As soon as the Dismal Jeremiahs discovered
that this year’s output would amount to
1,700,000 cases (about 2,500,000 bushels)
over-production was shouted from the house-
tops. I’ll admit that half that quantity
might result in a glut if no better distribut-
ing and advertising methods were used than
in 1922.
Another thing: up till last year our bananas
were taken by practically only two States
—Queensland and N. S. Wales. Improved
prices have ruled since growers commenced
exploiting the Melbourne market; indeed,
they have rarely been betteT, though spend-
ing power has rarely .been lower. Certainly
an early winter has restricted supplies, but
good prices were also ruling before produc-
tion fell off.
The U.S.A., with its huge and motley
population, devours over eight dozen
bananas per head per year. On that basis
Australia should be able to put away
2,000,000 cases (3,000,000 bushels). It con-
sumes over 3,000,000 bushels of oranges,
5,000,000 bushels of apples, 2,000,000 bushels
of peaches and nectarines, and, among many
other fruits, 3,500,000 bushels of pears, none
of which has anything like the claims that
can be advanced on behalf of the banana.
They are not food-fruits. The only reason
I can see why bananas will not ,be consumed
in larger quantities than any other fruit is
because they will never be available in such
large quantities.
So don’t let the over-production bogey
frighten you, growers!
THAT DISCARDED MOTOR-TUBE.
“Hornby”: If you have t 0 cart water per
cask and sledge you’ve often been exasper-
ated by the working off of the hoop securing
the covering bag. A strip of tubing (equal
in length to the circumference of the cask
top) between the bag and the hoop will
prevent this.
Leg-lengths slit down one side and laced
at the back are ideal protectors when hand-
ling wet sheep, dehorning and eye-trimming.
Tube-rubber insoles for bag shearing-
moccassins give a firmer grip when handling
fractious sheep, and are much easier on the
feet, besides being damp- and cold-resisting.
As washers, rubber has many times the life
of leather, and is in all ways more suitable
for delicate machine parts. Also, it is easier
to free of old grease. Sand works into leather
and causes it to wear the machinery, but
rubber is not receptive.
Tube rubber makes an excellent razor-
strop, and is equally good for tools such as
farriers’ knives and plane blades.
THE BEST BREED OF POULTRY.
“J.A.S.” : An expert can take an uncom-
mon breed—say, Minorcas —and, by dint
of careful selection, culling and breeding, in
a few years produce individual hens that
will lay as well as good Leghorns. But in
the process he will find it necessary to dis-
pose of a big percentage of culls at much
less than the cost of raising them.
In deciding upon a breed of poultry the
first consideration must be consistency of
production. There will always be culls
which will never return the cost of their
keep, and of course the more of these “board-
ers” there are the less will the average profit
per bird be.
The two most popular breeds amongst com-
mercial poultry-farmers are White Leghorns
and Black Orpingtons. Both have been bred
for high production for many years and the
percentage of poor layers lias been reduced
to a very small one. Many other breeds,
notably Langshans, Rhode Island Reds.
Wyandottes and Brown Leghorns, have their
advocates, and doubtless in skilful hands
they can be made to pay, well; but there are
many more White Leghorns and Black
Orpingtons than all the other breeds com-
bined. The beginner would do well to stick
to the breeds that have proved consistent
producers.
He should, however, satisfy himself that
the stock purchased are well up to standard
weight and layers of full-sized eggs. Show
prize-winners should be regarded with sus-
picion, unless such prizes were gained in
the utility sections. Fowls are judged at
shows, not on their ability as egg-produeers,
but on much less important points. This
has led to the evolution of monstrosities like
the modern Black Spanish and Minorca,
whose faces must now be all eai’-lobe before
they have a chance of winning a prize.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In the winter frost and dew collect on the
rafters of our hay shed and drip on to the
(Continued on next page.)


m&mp.
i> \
m
mm
UHI
csz< mt
a
■1
V
.<:
s
1
m
m
I
\ i
a
m
'■■l
mm
Fitted for width, too!
This heavy-soled Abbey shoe, splen-
did for winter wear, is made in four
fittings, narrow, medium, wide and
extra-wide, in each full and half size.
That guarantees absolute comfort —
there’s no cramping of the foot.
ORDER BY POST: State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 284
COMPOUND ESSENCE)
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
Here’s the Way to
Revitalise Your Body
No matter how regular your daily habits,
through faulty action of the bowels particles
of food waste become encrusted in the walls
of the intestine. This waste matter accumu-
lates and breeds germ-producing poisons,
which enter the bloodstream, thus under-
mining your vitality—menacing your health
—taking power from those Life-giving organs
of Nature. Most internal sickness is now
traced to dreaded self-poisoning ( autoxima ),
the result of hidden constipation, from which
nine out of ten unconsciously suffer. It is
this imperfect elimination of waste matter
which is the direct cause of so much pre-
sent-day sickness, and which is making so
many people “old” years before their time.
Be internally clean. Regain the old energy
of youth. Build up strong, robust health and
fitness from the inside. Dislodge this crust
from the intestine and cleanse the blood
stream. Free the system from this sicken-
ing, poisonous waste. Drink COLOSEPTIC
—the prompt way to health, vigor—to a
new life —new vitality—-new energy. Gently
and smoothly COLOSEPTIC forces out all
the poisons and impurities through the
bowels, kidneys, pores of the skin, and re-
spiratory organs—Nature’s four great chan-
nels for the disposal of waste matter from
the body. It brings a new kind of internal
cleanness to your system.
Do you suffer from constipation, head-
aches, weakness, indigestion, gas in the
stomach and bowels, catarrh, backache, rheu-
matism, neuritis, eczema, pimples, etc.?
Then take the first step towards health resto-
ration by means of the method directed to
outroot self-poisoning. Drink COLOSEPTIC
every morning and personally prove how
quickly it surmounts your particular health
difficulty—renews your youthful energies—
gives you power to resist sickness and dis-
ease. You can get COLOSEPTIC in regular
full-size jars from all chemists, etc. Send
1/- stamps or postal note to COLOSEPTIC
CO., LTD., Pept. 114, 24 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, for a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
of COLOSEPTIC, and the interesting book-
let “Autoxima.”
To Let.
THEATRE ROYAL. BRISBANE.
Rental, £25 per week.
Apply, Trustees, Box 517 H, G.P.0.,
Brisbane.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 41 Bridie Street. Sydney.
w
Bfe
Cl
UNFAILING
SERVICE
Every Diamond Battery is guaranteed to
give the utmost power—to recuperate
strongly and rapidly—to give a length of
service satisfying the most critical demand.
Diamonds have an unequalled record of
performance. Set manufacturers recommend
them —broadcasting stations —and thousands
of set owners throughout Australia —use
them exclusively. They’ve proved their
value!
For more power at less cost —fit Diamonds!
Every dealer stocks them.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
—TORCH REFILLS
hay. Is there any dressing for the rafters
which would prevent this ? —9847.
Paint the underside of the iron with a
thick bitumastic paint, and while it is wet
dust it with fine sawdust.
(1) What percentage of the world's wheat
is grown in Australia? (2) What percent-
age of the world’s export supply is exported
from Australia? (3) What are the quanti-
ties grown in and exported from Australia
respeotively? (4) What is the amount of the
bounty paid on wheat for the past season?
(5) Has there been a subsidy on wheat pre-
viously in Australia? (6) Is there any sub-
sidy overseas? —9950.
'(1) On the average of the last four years,
slightly more than 3 percent. (2) Approxi-
mately 12 per cent. (3) 1926-27, produc-
tion, 160,761.886 bushels ;' exports, 97,611 5*7
bushels; 1927-28, 118,199,775, 73,864,517;
J 928-29, 159,679,421, 108,958,789; 1929-
30, 126,884,622, 62,745,891; 1930-31,
213,594,391, 144,386,954. Export figures in-
clude flour, calculated to wheat require-
ments. (4) £3,119,493 has been paid in
Australia up to May 12, in connection with
the bounty on wheat for the season 1931-32.
(5) No information in the records of the
Federal Statistics Bureau. (6) France, Ger-
many, Greece, Belgium, Sweden, Austria,
Italy and others do, in effect, subsidise the
production of wheat grown within their
borders by means of a high protective tariff;
M.L. also has an import duty which is
equivalent at present to a subsidy of over 2s.
per bushel. Great Britain is introducing a
quota-system equivalent at present prices to
a subsidy of over 2s. a bushel. Canada,
during 1931. paid a bonus on production of
5 cents per bushel.
My five-year-old mare gets a swelling under
the jaw which spreads at times all over her
head and partly down the neck.. There is
always a slight swelling under the jaw which
does not seem to be painful to touch. The
mare is in low condition and moping. She
eats well. She had strangles a couple of
years ago. Cause and cure? —55.
The swelling seems to be of a dropsical
nature, due to some blockage or slowing of
the vascular system in the region of the
throat. Treatment in the form of massage
and a good stimulating liniment, together
with keeping the bowels in a loose state, may
be attempted and the mare should be freed
from concurrent internal parasitic infesta-
tion if such is present. It would be advisable
to consult a vet.
(1) Where can I obtain literature on
passionfruit-growing? I have the Vic. Agri-
culture Department’s pamphlet. (2) Would
training the vines on a horizontal overhead
trellis be better than the ordinary method of
trellising where the soil is very rich? —9956.
(1) There is no other literature on this
subject dealing with Vic. conditions. (2)
Not recommended, as less protection would
be afforded from frost. In a sheltered, warm
position there would be no objection, but
vines could not be grown commercially this
way.
The eyes of some of my fowls are swollen
and fill with thick white pus, often result-
ing in the death of the bird or permanent
blindness in the affected eye. The disease
seems to affect birds of all ages. Cause and
cure? —9958.
Symptoms indicate eye roup. Place in the
eye one or two drops of a 10 p.c. solution
of argyrol, twice a day until a cure is
effected. The disease is infectious and the
affected birds should be isolated.
Can a living be made at kangaroo-shooting
for skins in Q’land by a single man with
fair bush experience? —99s2.
At the moment kangaroo-shooting is not
a payable proposition. The prices ruling
hardly cover the cost of powder and shot.
Furthermore, to get kangaroos in Queensland
to-day very big tracts of country have to
be covered.
(1) I have been trying to grow seedlings.
They come up all right, but when I trans-
plant them into boxes they stop growing.
Cause and remedy? (2) Any Australian
book dealing with the culture of seedlings?
—BO.
(1) Probably the fault is in the soil. Add
a litle cow manure to the boxes. Also allow
plenty of room between the seedlings to help
the sun push them along. (2) “The Aus-
tralian Gardener,” by Leslie H. Brunning;
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne; 7s. 9d.
posted.
(1) If the whole North grew sugar, what
would the home consumer have to pay to
balance the bounty paid on the extra export
sugar? (2) If it is true that production is
controlled in Australia and that there are
plenty more people anxious to grow sugar,
what is the objection to letting anyone
grow sugar, supply and demand controlling
production? —66.
(1) There is no direct bounty on sugar
exported from Australia. Whilst the price
of sugar for domestic consumption is kept
at the present level, the export trade in
sugar can be maintained, if not increased.
It has not been suggested that the home con-
sumers should be asked to pay more than
at present in order to build up an export
trade; hence, the present policy of restric-
tion as determined by the Commonwealth
Government. (2) Further production is
declared to be not practicable, as it is. regu-
lated by the present economic capacity of
the mills to crush the cane during a favor-
able period of the year.
My orange-trees are becoming covered with
a white, fine cobweb, which is gradually
working its way from the lower trunks of
the trees to the upper limbs. Cause and
cure? —9Bo3.
Can’t say without inspection. Submit a
specimen to the Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Box 36A, G.P.0., Syd-
ney, with a letter.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Beady”: For treating cuts and wounds
on animals, keep a bottle of the following
dressing on hand: lpt. oil, petrol, 7oz.
turps, l|oz. camphor, soz. creosote. Clip
hair well round wound, taking care not to
touch the cut with hands. Soak a piece of
cotton-wool in the dressing and bandage into
position. If necessary to use water, wash the
wound out well with the dressing first.
“Pine Scrub”: The value of wilga as a
fodder (“Booraby,” B. 18/5/’32) is depend-
ent to some extent on the soil. The country
on the east side of the Bogan, near Nyngan
(N.S.W.), is mostly black soil; there, I
recall, sheep ate wilga readily, trimming the
trees as high as they could reach. On the
west side, where the soil was red and sandy,
we could not induce them to touch it even
in drought-time. This soil effect was not
noticeable on other edible scrub such as
leopard-wood and whitewood.
“Wandi”: Though more Sudan grass has
been grown this year in northern N.S.W.
and southern Queensland than previously, on
account of its heavy yield and excellent hay-
making qualities, many dairymen in the same
districts favor a combination of Rhodes grass
and lucerne, both as a pasture and for hay-
making. This combination is considered a
first-class balanced ration, the lucerne being
rich in protein, the Rhodes grass in carbohy-
drates
“Cass”: Lumping 80 to 100 rabbit-traps
round burrows is heavy work ; try a light
wheelbarrow. An iron wheel is all that is
necessary; any handy man can make the
frame out of bush timber from two round
saplings, sft. long, grooved to fit the axle
in position. Keep the handle ends of sap-
lings 2ft. apart. Use 4in. x fin. bolts for
tying three cross bars Ift. apart, the first as
near wheel as possible. A strip of woolpaek
nailed very loosely to frame makes a suitable
floor for carrying traps.
“Mulgo”: When the surface pasture is
vanishing is the time to keep persistently
after Bunny. A few score will do more
damage then than a thousand will when
there is grass and herbage. They tear up
the roots and ringbark every edible tree and
shrub within a wide radius of the warren,
cleaning the stems from the ground to as
high as they can reach. In this way
valuable forage is lost at a time when there
is nothing else for the sheep.
“Dai R.”: On farms it is wise to .select
periodically a few growing sticks of dia-
meters suitable for various tool-handles and
spreaders; ringbark and leave them slowly
to dry and toughen. Cut and store under
shelter when nearly dry, leaving the bark
on till required. This provision ensures dur-
ability and a springiness beneficial to man
and beast.
“Hornby” : The best of all grindstone covers
is one made from three short-woolled sheep
pelts—one forms the roof; the others are
halved, one lengthwise, the other crosswise,
and sewn to the roof edges as sides and ends.
In one end cut a hole for the handle to fit
through. Woolly side in always. Tied at
each corner, this bonnet will turn any rain
and neutralise any heat effect.
“Sheepo”: I have seen losses amongst
sheep and lambs through the use of arsenical
drench mixtures, but never when nicotine
sulphate has been used. Yard 18 to 20 hours
prior to drenching, drench slowly, and then
keep them in the yards for about four
hours. When mixing see that the correct
quantities of nicotine sulphate and water are
used; 2oz. to each gallon, and stir well.
“Valerin”: Sheepskins now carrying a
good staple of wool are practically unsale-
able in the country. Why not shear them?
A special home-made stand on a couple of
bags of wheat to fasten them to is all that
is needed. Then run the machine over them
and take off the fleece; it will probably be
worth five bob. I wonder why a basil is
still worth' 4s. to ss.
“Gumblegubbin”: Instead of buying a new
door-lock when the spring of the old one is
broken, unscrew it, and make a new spring
with a piece of a steel rib from a pair of
stays or corsets. You have only to bend it
the shape of the broken one, which is easily
done, and drop it into its place. If it is
your first job, unscrew the lock carefully
so as not to displace the internal mechan-
isms.
“6865”: When erecting a line of fence
posts running approximately north' and
south, turn the sap side of the post to the
north; this prevents suncracks and posts
will stand much lom,ger without rotting.
When tightening wire (using rollers) put
a little grease on each end of roller and some
on the post. The wire will tighten like a
violin string.
“E.H'.M.”: To prevent slugs and snails
from attacking seedlings, surround the beds
with either sawdust or soot. Soot mixed
with soil also encourages early germination.
Dark soils retain heat longer than light
soils.
“Karaway”: When chickens have to be
kept in a small space that is difficult to keep
clean under ordinary conditions, make a floor
with small meshed netting or gauze, drawn
tightly, a couple of inches above the ground.
The droppings go through the wire and are
easily raked out from underneath. After
each cleaning, dust with lime and sand.
“Gumblegubbin” :' The best plant to pre-
vent bank erosion by running water or
floods is the common green reed, or reed
grass, found along the edges of rivers and
in shallow swamps. Wherever it grows
there is never any damage done by floods or
the wash of steamers. It has strong under-
ground stems, radiating in all directions and
binding the soil. It can be transplanted
in any wet place by dividing the stems.
When other feed is scarce the tops are
eaten off by cattle, but it is a perennial that
soon shoots up again.
“Wongi”: The easiest way to break a
piece of fencing-wire without tools is to
double the wire sharply round on itself so
as to make a sharp kink; then unkink and
kink quickly a few times and the job is done.
“Valerin”: Some more arguments in favor
of planting trees. Travelling through N.S.W.
wheat areas one finds farms so denuded of
timber that the occupiers have to cadge fire-
wood from neighbors. Timber is an eco-
nomic essential on the farm; hauling fire-
wood and fencing posts long distances is a
waste of time and cash. In summer and
winter stock hold their condition far better if
they have free access to shade and shelter.
The spread of insect pests is largely due to
the destruction of trees, the habitat of birds.
On my property the tops of hills are cov-
ered with trees and belts and clumps have
been left on the flats. Compared with my
neighbors, losses from the blowfly pest are
negligible. Planted in the right places trees
minimise erosion of the finely-worked soil,
check the too rapid run-off of water and
bring about a higher percentage of
absorption of rainfall. Quick-growing trees
to suit all such purposes can be obtained in
any State.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, typist, Sydney, wants position.—lso.
Ex-bank clerk (25), Vic., eight years’ exp., wants
position of any sort anywhere.—l7B.
Islander will exchange shells and other curios for
books and magazines other than Bulletin and
“Queenslander.” —138.
Young man (27), Vic., single, agri. college educa-
tion, eight years’ exp. wheat and sheep, last post five
years, wants position of responsibility on farm any-
where. Wages or share. —152.
Married boundary-rider (N.S.W.), middle-aged,
active, good dogs, wants position. Life exp. with
sheep and cattle. Refs. —42.
Children’s nurse, lady’s maid, will give services
for whole or part passage to England.—loB.
To buy the novels of De Maupassant, Nos. 2,3, 5,
8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, in the small black-
covered edition by Alfred E. Knopf, London. —-93.
Young man (24), N.S.W., with farming exp.,
seeks work as station book-keeper, or outside work.
—lOO.
Young lady, Sydney, was secretary to editor city
weekly, has worked in insurance office, seeks typing
or secretarial post.—99.
Married man (28), Sydney, advertising and news-
paper exp., knowledge office routine, seeks clerical
position town or country.—9B.
To buy “L’lllustration” for No. 14, 1931.—83.
To buy “Memoirs of Count Gronow,” vol. 11, “The
Creevy Papers” and “The Croker Papers.”—BB.
To buy books published by George Howe, includ-
ing old spelling-books and readers.—B9.
To buy original copies of “Sydney Gazette” and
Other early Australian newspapers.-—169.
To buy R. L. Stevenson’s “Father Damien” and
“An Object of Pity.”—l7o.
Vocal score of “The Chocolate Soldier.”—lB4.
Words of songs “Just Someone” and “The Stone
Outside Dan Murphy’s Door.” —181.
Photograph of monument at Hick’s Point (N.S.W.).
—69.
Whereabouts of William Henderson, who left
Balclutha (M.L.) for Melbourne three years ago.
—132,
Information Sought.
(1) To qualify as a trainee in a public
or private hospital in N.S.W. is an inter-
mediate certificate necessary? (2) Approxi-
mate cost of out fit? —9662.
(1) To 1 become a trainee it is necessary
to hold a certificate of having passed either
the leaving, intermediate or domestic science
course examinations, or of having passed the
Nurses’ Registration Board’s educational
test. (2) The matron of the hospital to
which a candidate was appointed would
advise on that subject.
(1) Is the New Guinea police force
divided into mounted and foot branches? (2)
Any vacancies? (3) Conditions of service,
pay , etc.? (A) Qualifications? (5) Would
a member of the N.S.W. mounted police have
a reasonable chance of appointment? —99oB.
(1) Foot only. (2) There is a lengthy
waiting list. (3) Salary scales are: Inspec-
tor, £5lO to £582 p.a.; sub-inspector, £456
to £528; warrant-officer, Ist class, £4ll to
£492; 2nd class, £366 to £447 p.a. Fares
of appointees from Australia to the Terri-
tory are paid. Unfurnished quarters are
provided at a rental of £6 to' £36 p.a. On
out-stations furniture is also provided.
Appointees are required to serve a proba-
tionary period of 12 months. Three months’
leave of absence on full pay may be granted
for each ppriod of service of 21 months. (4)
No physical or educational standard is laid
down, but these qualifications are taken into
account when a selection of applicants is
being made. (5) Yes, if there were a
vacancy.
(1) Did the last Queensland Labor Gov-
ernment show a deficit each year of its 14
years’ term? (2) Total deficit? (3) Yearly
surplus or deficit for the last five years of
its term? —9B79.
(1) No. Eight deficits and six surpluses.
(2) Total of deficits, £2,292,314; total of
surpluses, £111,636; net deficit, £2,180,677.
(3) 1924-25, surplus, £16,967; 1925-26, de-
ficit, £554,685; 1926-27. deficit, £343,166;
1927-28, surplus, £10,505; 1925-29, deficit,
£165,957.
Whereabouts in Papuan waters are (1)
Samarai and (2) Daru, and are they im-
portant centres? —97.
(1) Samarai, a small island of about 59
acres, is the commercial and shipping centre
for the east of Papua. It is three miles from
the mainland. (2) Trading centre for the
Western Division of Papua, situated on an
island off the western coast.
If as there ever been a racing-car built
with three engines ? —9l.
Yes, the Triplex Special, which broke the
one-mile record with a speed of 207.55 m.p.h.
in 1929, driven by Ray Keech. It was
engined with three 12eyl. motors, each de-
veloping 500 h.p.
Significance of the figures in the Archibald
Memorial Fountain in Sydney? —72.
The central figure, Apollo, represents the
arts (beauty and light). At his feet the
star of day is indicated by a semi-circle, of
which the rays spread out in jets of light
(the rising sun). The horses’ heads repre-
sent the horses of Apollo’s chariot. The
large basin is divided into three groups. One
represents Diana, goddess of purity and of
all that stands for poetry and harmony. The
second group symbolises the good things of
the earth—the young god of the fields and
pastures. The third group represents sacri-
fice for the public good; Theseus delivers
his country from the ransom which it had
to pay to the Minotaur. .
(1) An English paper says there are
wingless , birds fit M.L. , Is that correct?
(2) Are the kiwi and takahe extinct? —lll.
(l) r No living birds in Maoriland are
wingless, though there is a comparatively
large number of absolutely flightless birds.
The kiwi, the weka, the kakapo parrot and
the takahe cannot use their wings for flight,
while a duck belonging to the Auckland
Islands is practically in the same plight.
There are also several species of birds whose
wings are so weak that they can make only
short flights. (2) The kiwi survives in fair
numbers in districts where there is little
settlement. The takahe is believed to still
exist, but is one of the world’s very rare
birds. Only four specimens have been found.
Is there unemployment taxation in M.L.,
and if so, ichat is the rate? —120.
Yes, at the rate of Id. for every 6s. Bd. of
wages (other than those of domestic ser-
vants in private homes and of relief workers),
and of incomes received from other sources
by all males not wholly exempt from the
levy, and by women with incomes of £250
or over.
(1) Row to remove pyro stains from
negatives? (2) Row can the “contrast” in
prints he softened?- —112.
(1) Make a saturated solution of common
alum with warm water. When cold, decant
the clear part. To a pint of solution add
20 to 30 drops of hydrochloric acid; after
immersion in this clearing bath the negative
should be well washed. (2) Print in a
bright light. If using gaslight paper, use
a daylight (blue) globe instead of the
ordinary (yellow) globe. If using P.0.P.,
print in direct sunlight.
Origin of “Tommy Atkins” as a nickname
for the British private, soldier? —115.
Thomas Atkins, was the name selected by
the War Oflice to fill in the specimen form
of a manual distributed throughout the army,
in which were to be entered details concern-
ing each man.
The huds on my hibiscus shrubs seem
healthy but rarely open to full flower. What
is the reason? —il9.
Close inspection will show black or green
aphis at the base of the bud. Spray with
Blackleaf 40 which has been thoroughly
emulsified with soap. If the shrub is badly
affected, pick off the buds and burn them.
A little superphosphate mixed into the soil
at the base of the shrub will soon stimulate
new growth and flowers.
(1) Proportion of sand to lime in making
lime mortar? (2) Is lime mortar preferable
to cement mortar for bricking in a copper?
—6l.
(1) As a general guide, the mortar should
have just enough sand in it to make it work
nicely and not stick to the trowel. Some
limes take more sand than others. (2)
Cement mortar is preferable.
Best way to treat chrysanthemum plants
nou> that the flowering is over? —118.
Lift the clumps and set out the strong-
young side-shoots in rows in a bed of
medium-rich soil. Give frequent dustings
with lime to kill off pests. The young plants
will be ready to plant out in October.
I own land at Grafton (N.S.W.) which
is not connected with the town’s water supply
—the nearest water-main is 66 yards from
my land—but am asked to pay water rates.
Am I liable? —9919.
Yes; water rates may be levied on all rate-
able land within 250 yards of a water-pipe,
although the land is not supplied with water
from the pipe.
In what way do seven-gilled sharks differ
from other sharks? Are they to be found
in Australian waters and are they harmful
to man? —124.
They have only one dorsal fin, instead of
the usual two, and six or seven instead of
five gill openings. The teeth of the upper
jaw differ from those in the lower. A species,
Heptranmias perlo, commonly taken in
moderate depths off the south-eastern coast
of Australia, is not distinct from one that
occurs in European waters; it is grey in
color, with a striking green eye, and its
snout is pointed. Another, Notorhynchus
peetorosus, occasionally captured in shallower
waters, is light grey in color with small dark
spots, and is distinguished from 11. perlo by
its broadly-rounded snout. Both species are
of small size and quite harmless to man.
What strokes do (1) Charlton and (2)
Arne Borg use ivlien stemming? —l2s.
(1) Ilis stroke is moulded on Ross’s
trudgeon-crawl; he swims on his right side,
makes the trudgeon-kick with his knee
straight just as his right arm is pulling, and
keeps his feet moving with short beats until
it is time to make the trudgeon-kick again;
he uses his full reach in placing his arms
forward and shortens his stroke when sprint-
ing. (2) H’is stroke resembles the crawl of
Healy and Longworth; he kicks his right
leg at the same time as he pulls with his left
arm, and his left leg when he pulls with his
right arm. Borg does not extend his arms
to their full length until after they enter the
water, cuts his arms in short, in front of
his head, and extends under the water in
the direction of his opposite shoulder; he
has no trudgeon-kick, but kicks twice with
his right leg and once with his left leg,
using an up-and-down kick.
I have been told that until very recently
it was impossible to get unemployment relief
in country towns in Vic. and S.A., and that
travellers calling at police stations for rations
were referred to some local benevolent insti-
tution. Is this correct? —63.
Local relief committees charged with
distributing Government sustenance to bona
fide travellers have been established at all
municipalities throughout Vic. for a long
time. Relief cards have just been introduced.
They entitle travellers to rations to the value
of 55., and are obtainable at police stations
or from the committee secretaries on Thurs-
days at all chief centres. Emergency rations
are issued at other places enabling the
traveller to reach a centre where cards are
distributed. There is a similar system in
S.A., but relief is difficult to obtain when
a traveller recrosses the border from Vic.
or N.S.W. . ■ . ,
Has the Torrens system of registration of
land titles been adopted m any count c
outside Australia? 131. ,
Its essential features have been adopted
in Canada, ALL., Jamaica, lriludad, Jobago
and the Leeward Islands. Outside the Empire
Norway, Denmark and some of the American
States have followed the Australian example,
(1) How many different sorts of hand can
be dealt at bridge? (2) What are the odds
against the occurrence, sometimes reported,
of each player being dealt a complete suit ? —
134.
(1) 635,013,881,095. (2) As near as we
can compute it something over sixteen bil-
lion billion to one against.
What was the fate of Peter Hcyivood, the
midshipman aboard the Bounty, who was
forced by the mutineers to remain behind
ivith them? 101
When the Pandora visited Tahiti in 1791
in search of the Bounty, Heywood was the
first to give himself up, and although inno-
cent was treated by Captain Edwards as a
pirate. Sentence of death was passed on
him, but he was afterwards pardoned and
T-oimnoU Clio Nnw Ho later did <mod ser-
l? c °'flnnfh ,nd was annohited to
vice in South Ammica and was appointed to
the command of ILM.S. Nereus
Particulars concermng a new insulation
substance called paragutta . Jo. ~
It .is used for insulating deep-sea ca , ,
and is a mixture of o 0 p.C. gutta-peicha, 4U
p.C. rubber and 10 p.C. _ hydro-cai bon wax.
Its specific conductance is only one-thntieth
of that of ordinary cable gutta-percha, and
its dielectric constant is 20 p.C. smaller. It
is claimed that if paragutta had been avail-
able to insulate the permalloy-loaded tele-
graph cable laid between U.S.A. and Cuba
five years ago speed would have beeii 30
p.c. greater, and revenue-earning capacity
increased 30 p.C. _
(1) Is English widely spoken in South
Africa, and what other language is princi-
pally spoken there? (2) Does the Govern-
ment recognise any language besides Eng-
lish, and would an applicant for a Govern-
ment position have to know the other lan-
guage? —96.
(1) English is understood over the greater
part of South Africa, but in the country dis-
tricts among the Boer farmers, Afrikaans,
a South African variant of Dutch, holds its
own. (2) All Government notices of the
Union are published in both languages, and
public appointments are becoming limited
to bi-lingual candidates.
What is meant by the term “decibel” as
applied to wireless telephony?— 165.
The decibel, so called after A. Graham
Bell, the inventor of the telephone, is a unit
for measuring the efficiency of telephone or
associated electrical circuits. The efficiency
i•jp» u j
of an amplifier may be expressed as the ratio
between output and input power in watts or
other units But our ears do not react to
sound in the proportion that a wattmeter
does ; they react to sound m logarithmic pro-
portion. If the power of an amplifier be
increased by 100 times, the volume of sound
will only appear 20 times greater; and 1000
times, 30 times greater. Each time the
power is multiplied by 10 the sound inten-
Sity in decibels is increased by 10.
(1) Wlidt led up to the .Eureka Stockade
incident? (2) Date? (o) Number of
casualties? (4) Were the miners granted
reductions in fees? —9B27.
(1) License fees were considered to be
excessive and the police were accused of
severity and brutality. Also there were
dreams of establishing an Australian Repub-
lic. (2) The fight took place on Dec. 3,
1854. (3) One officer and four privates
were killed, and there were a dozen casual-
ties on the side of the military; 16 miners
were killed and eight died of wounds. (4)
Yes, after a commission had inquired into
their grievances.
(1) Upon what principle is the photo-
graphic carbon process based? (2) Is it dif-
ficit.lt to master? (3) Advantages over bro-
mide printing? (4) Are carbon materials
procurable in Australia?— lss.
(1) Upon the property of gelatine in
combination with potassium bichromate
becoming insoluble when exposed to the
action of light. (2) It is mastered after a
little practice by anyone acquainted with
bromide printing. Beginners’ greatest diffi-
culties lie in sensitising the carbon tissue
Ma d nv S CoTo^ n |nf^hX eG Le X avXble and
STpiS? SftrSbfe
379 W Geo n rg? h stS aP Sydney 4) From Kodak?i ’
OfD George street, »yaney. .
-,J ho d foil) aces, playing poker
against three opponents, what are the
chances against one of them holding a routine
flush; (-) What are the odds against hold-
fflees. (3) Against a royal flush".
any stra, fl ht flush?— l3s. _
, '•*■) , foui aces and one other card being
in your hand, there are only 31 routine
flushes available to the other players. . The
chances against any other player holding a
routine flush are 83,830 to 1 against. As
there arc three players the odds must be
divided by three, so the chances are 27,943
to 1 against. (2) 53,070 to 1 against. (3)
649,740 to 1 against. (4) 72,193 to 1
against.
I have heard there was an Australian
case of a “man they could not hang.” What
is the story? Was he reprieved? —l92.
According to Henniker Heaton’s not-
always-reliable “Dictionary of Dates,”
Joseph Samuels was sentenced to death for
theft in Sydney. On Sept. 20, 1803, he was .
strung up, but .’lie rope snapped; Samuels
fell prostrate. At a second attempt the rope
unrove at the fastening; at a third attempt
it snapped once more. So Provost-marshal
Smith interviewed Governor King, who
reprieved Samuels.
Tnfnrmatinn Snr»r»li«rl
information ouppiiea.
„ , _
9786. Ugilvie S verse:
He sees the well-filled purses
From Abbott tracks....
is a reference to buggies made by Abbott, an
American, which had a great vogue among
the squatters of the pre-motor era.—C.S.K.
8668.—1 n the west of Queensland the
word “wilga” is applied to a tree and means
“very hard,” presumably because the heart-
wood of the wilga tree is extremely bard
and tough. J. A.
Brief Answers.
G.F.: (1) A phosphate boat lying off the
Island. (2) Stamps of Great Britain overprinted
“Nauru” were first issued in October, 1915. (3) The
lower values, although not priced high, are com-
paratively scarce in a used condition; the higher
Georgian overprints from ss. upwards are also scarce.
There is an error in the overprint, where “Nauru”
is spelt “Naupu”; this variety is very rare....
W.H.T.: 416 a. 3r. Ip W.T.D.: (1) The 3d.,
55., and one issue of the 2d. were printed by
the recess method; the remaining issue of the 2d.
by letterpress. This issue may be distinguished by
its flatter appearance and by the fact that it was
printed on paper water-marked “Grown O of A.”
(2) February 15, 1932. (3) The design of the new
sixpenny will be somewhat similar to the 6d. kooka-
burra, issued in October, 1928. It will be surface
printed and purple-brown. (4) About the end of
May or the beginning of June.... J.T.: Fellowship of
Australian Writers. Secretary, Miss Marjorie Quinn,
100 Addison-road, Manly... .C.W.S.: Manufacture of
firearm silencers is prohibited in N.S.W M.A.:
If land is enclosed, any trespasser is subject to a
penalty (Inclosed Lands Act). If it is not enclosed,
he is liable to an action for trespass, and the owner
or occupier may claim for damage done. A warning
notice is unnecessary W.D.: If he has a billiard
license, he can sue in the Small Debts Court for
money due to him on account of games played.
If he is acting merely as the servant of the insti-
tution, he has no personal claim.... Layman: The
Premier of N.S.W, has stated that he will not
repeal the Moratorium Act, which expires in April
next, but will renew it and extend its provisions,
which cover the matters referred to by y0u....
W.E.H.: The scheme originated with the Melbourne
“Herald” and was sponsored by the Department of
Markets, Sydney office of which can inform you of
this year’s arrangements L.G.E.: This department
will endeavor to answer any specific questions put to
it, but it cannot undertake to produce comprehensive
essays on large and controversial national questions.
. ...K.8.: Details of lime-burning practice, with
descriptions of kilns in use, are included in the
“Report on Limestone Deposits of N.5.W.,” obtain-
able from the Government Printer, Sydney, ss. lOd.
posted... .J.8.C.: Don’t quite catch your meaning,
but if you want to know what the extra cost of
The Bulletin would be if it had no advertisements,
about 4d j.F.: (1) Combined wdth the general
design, it makes the boat ’plane and reduces wetted
surface. (2) Not if she is a displacement boat.
. ...A.R.P.: For cabbage moth, a suitable
lead arsenate powder is obtainable from Carlyle
Fertilisers, Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney. For aphides
on broad beans, spray with nicotine sulphate. For
four gallons (one kerosene-tin) of spray, take two
tablespoons nicotine sulphate and two ounces soap.
....M.A.: If you write secretary, Australian
Museum, Sydney, indicating line intended to be
followed, you will be advised concerning literature
to be studied... .H.T.: Get in touch with the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melb.
. ...M.G.: In the case of a brother and the children
of a deceased brother or sister, the surviving brother
would take half and the children of the deceased
brothers or sisters the remaining half, not per head,
but by families... .A.D.: (1) Yes. (2) Dentifrice
rubber. (3) From Mick Simmons, George-street,
Sydney, 10s. 6d F.C.A.: (1) November 19, 1929.
(2) Prohibiting the habitual consorting together of
criminals, vagrants, etc. (3) Government Printer,
Sydney, 4d. posted. ...L.L.P.: Get in touch with Mrs.
A. B. Crowther, Violet-street, Balgowlah, Sydney.
. ...J.W.W'.: (1) In Vic. he must be approved by
Masseurs Board and registered; there is no Act in
S.A. (2) Ye5....G.N.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept,
of Transport, Canberra... .N.G.D.: “S.R.D.” stands
for Service Rum Diluted. .. .W.D.8.: AV. R. Carpenter
and Co., 19 O’Connell-street; Burns, Philp and Co.,
Bridge-street; and Duval Trading Co., Margaret-street
—all Sydney... .H.N.: Motor Tractors, Ltd.,
Bridge-street, Sydney; Charcoal Traction Engineers
Pty., 118 Toorak-road, South Yarra (Vic.) ; C. G.
Smith, Ardrossan (S.A.) ; and A. G. Pritchard, 114
Wakefield-street, Adelaide (S.A.) .... Val: (1) Per-
manently unfit for service. (2) If your present in-
capacity is regarded as a consequence of war service
apply to Deputy Commissioner of Repatriation,
St. Kilda-road, Melbourne. (3) Full particulars
as to the history of your complaint, together with
any medical evidence in support of the case, should
accompany the claim... .J.N.H.: Write Air Board,
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .E.N.M.E.: There is no
similar, inexpensive b00k.... A.D.S.: Tongqua beans,
mostly used in perfumery, are procurable from
Elliotts and Australian Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-
street, Sydney, 6s. 6d. per pound. A chemist would
probably be able to get an ounce or two for you.
. ...H.C.: Call on Elder, Smith and Co., Sydney,
who generally do the indenting of sulphur for the
superphosphate manufacturers. There is a bonus
on sulphur produced in Australia, and particulars
of this can be obtained on application to the Customs
Dept., Sydney... .WAV.: “View Mat.” notices
barred... .N.A.M.: (1) Never heard of them. (2)
Write Charles Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney. (3) We are inserting a notice in the
“Wants” col F.W.H.: Clearly you are a con-
tractor, and not a miner entitled to remove timber
by virtue of a miner’s right. You will require to
obtain a license and to pay royalty. See District
Forester at Dubbo... .A.M.: Write Secretary,
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
Melbourne... .K.B. J.: Communicate with Deputy
Commissioner, Old Age Pensions Office, Chalmers-
street, Sydney, who will advise... .J.T.M.:
N.S.W. law won’t allow us to tell you... .W.R. and
H.H.: Write Leeturer-in-Charge, Tanning School,
Bourke-street, Waterloo. .. .W.D.M.K.: Various cor-
respondence schools conduct courses on the subject.
See their advts. in “S. M. Herald” on Saturdays.
. ...M.L.K.: We would not advise anyone to com-
mence a milk-run in Hobart, without strong financial
reserves. Wholesale price of milk is about Bd, per
gallon, and retail price for cash 4d. per quart....
S. : It ceased through lack of public support....
H.R.8.: Not all film-stars follow the procedure of
using the artificial eyebrow line, but those who do
mostly shave their natural brows, or have them
entirely plucked... .E.J.L.: Write Secretary, Em-
ployment Council, 34 Castlereagh-strebt, Sydney....
T. : The 100-dollar Confederate bills were
issued during the war and were negotiable
for only two years from date of issue. They
have value only as curios J.M.K.: “Tobacco
Leaf,” by J. B. Killebrew and Herbert Myrick,
Angus and Robertson, 30s M.H.: Presume you
refer to Lt.-Gen. Sir William Thomas Furse. His
address is 18 Mallord-street, Chelsea, London, 5.W.3.
The Bishop of St. Albans is his brother H.J.S.:
No records available locally... .A.A.: Evidently
person carting hay is not an employee and tax
should not be deducted by the owner of the hay.
. ...E.M.W.: (1) For matriculation a pass in mathe-
matics at either the higher or the lower standard
is compulsory. (2) For the Intermediate and Leaving
Course in Art, the series on art and architecture
“As shown to the children,” published by Jack,
would be useful J.M.A.: Get in touch with
Director of Marketing Bureau, Raphael-street,
Sydney... .A.W.T.: Poole’s “Practical Telephone
Handbook” (7th ed.), 265.; Thompson’s “Lessons
in Electricity and Magnetism,” 255.; both obtain-
able in Melbourne.... (Many others mailed.)


Dope
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
SYxep.-rs: Ernest William Johns,
M \. Ojioh., brought by cocaine to u
mere .subsistence by freelancing, saves
beautiful but raucous Etty Smith
from a half-breed's knife in a Sydney
waterfront “dive.” ' Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father's offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings, and after a few weeks he
has to go to her for dope rations less
frequently. But her ministrations
fire the jealousy of Ols Jornsen, made.
Taunted by Varley, the cook {“the
doctor”). Ols brings “snow” from
Townsville and tempts the agonised
Johns . Etty intervenes; as she tends
him Johns realises that she, who is far
short of his ideal, loves him. Captain
Smith, her father, realises it, too; he
sacks Jornsen. making Johns acting
first mate. When Varley confesses he
loves Etty. Johns agrees it is only
right to tell her he, Johns, does not
lore her; but keeps putting this off.
Walking ’’with her through decaying
Lola-Fahga, where Smith is after deep-
water pearl-divers, Johns feeds he
cannot desert as he had planned.
BOOK I—THE SURF QUEEN.
Chapter IX ; ( Continued).
LATER that morning, as Johns walked
through the depressing streets with
Etty by his side, the load of melan-
choly became' greater than ever. It was
over twenty-four hours' since he had had
his last sniff of cocaine, and his nerves,
drug-starved, were in no condition to com-
bat the effect that the brooding soullessness
of the decaying buildings had upon him.
It seemed symbolic to him; just as he
once had been full of high ambitions, and
with the future beckoning joyfully, so with
these houses. Tlwy were all tombs of lost
hopes, of promise gone to seed.
He could never stay here, he told him-
self over and over again. It would be
better, far better, to pretend a love for
Etty that he did not feel than to stay on
here alone, living a life that would be really
worse than death. If he made an effort
he could surely disguise his true feelings
sufficiently well. And gratitude at least
would act as a spur to foster the deception.
And then, too, Etty at least would be
happy. If he stayed here neither of them
would be.
Yet even as he told himself these things
his subconscious mind was laughing at him.
jeering at him for his weakness, so that his
nerves became more jangled than ever, and
his supra-orbital nerve commenced throb-
bing with more than usual persistence.
“Don’t be a weak-kneed fool!” his subcon-
scious kept whispering. “An M.A. Oxon.,
and afraid of your own companionship! Be
a man!”
Finally, as they came opposite to the
entrance of the Hotel Rio Grande—the
faded gold lettering of the signboard was
the sole remaining evidence of the
grandeur—he stopped suddenly.
“I can’t go on,” he protested. “It re-
minds me too much of myself.” Etty
nodded understandingly. “I’m afraid you’ll
have to give me another ration as soon as
you can,” he went on apologetically. He
pressed his fingers against his supra-orbital
nerve. “I can feel it coming on again worse
than ever.”
Every vestige of color suddenly drained
from his face, so that it became a mask of
misery, which the searching sunlight
bleached to an unearthly pallor. The
scorching glare of the white roadway seemed
to transmit itself to his brain, so that his
consciousness became a mass of white-hot
flame. The buildings in the street were
blotted out; there was nothing but the
white glare.
A few seconds later the seizure left him
as suddenly as it had come, and he found
himself hanging groggily to Etty’s arm.
As he glanced at her the expression on
her face made him catch his breath. It
was not the expression that he had sur-
prised in her eyes that night in the cabin—
there was nothing of passion in the look
that was fixed on him just then. It was
yearning, an ineffable yearning; a wistful
longing to mother him shone in her face.
Dimly he realised that the passionate love
was for the moment subjugated by the
overwhelming pity that she felt for him.
With an effort he straightened himself
and squared his shoulders.
“I’m sorry,” he said jerkily. “I have
made a fool of myself.”
Etty said nothing, but her hand, as it
still supported his elbow, tightened its
grasp reassuring^.
“We’ll go back to the ship,” she said
gently. “You’ll feel better when you’ve
had a sniff.”
But the road back to the Surf Queen was
one of travail for Johns. He could not free
his mind of the obsession that he was being
jeu ouca, nice some escaped convict to cap-
tivity. And there was but one way of evad-
ing that captivity. If only he could make
up his mind to stay on in Lola-Panga!
He was just schooling his mind to accept-
ance of the resolve when he saw that which
banished for ever the likelihood. They
were passing an old dilapidated building
when a bedraggled figure, squatting in the
doorless doorway, caught his attention.
The creature held out its hand in the age-
old gesture of the mendicant, and Johns
was almost physically sick as he saw that
the hand was lacking its fingers, and that
foul, ulcerous sores took the place of what
should have been the palm. He stopped,
aghast at the sight, but Etty urged him on.
“Leper!” she said tersely and indiffer-
ently, so that it struck Johns that she
might have been more interested in or
more upset by the sight of a maimed dog.
“The place is rotten with them.”
He was glad enough to leave the pitiable
object behind, but his mind had become
obsessed with the memory of the picture
that he had glimpsed within the ruins.
Three children crawling about on the
earthen floor—the leper’s children, doubt-
less. His stomach suddenly retched against
the memory of the fingerless hand that had
sought his generosity, and he staggered
drunkenly.
“We’re nearly there,” Etty soothed him.
It did not occur to her that the leper might
have been the cause for his stumble—lep-
rosy and she were no strangers, and for
her it held no terrors. She knew that
casual and intermittent contact was, with
the exception perhaps of one case in every
ten thousand, innocuous, and the senti-
mental side of the question had never
troubled her. She simply accepted the fact
that there were lepers, just as there were
club-footed people, and let it go at that.
Again she squeezed Johns’s arm encour-
agingly. And Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon., choking back the nausea of body
and throttling the abject misery of soul
that threatened to engulf him in a devas-
tating tide, literally fought his way along
the sunlit street. It was heavy going, he
told himself. Hea.vy going. He had so
many things to contend with.
Queer thoughts and fancies were begin-
ning to make themselves obtrusive in his
mind. His brain was commencing the old
cogwheel movement that he had scarcely
known in the past fortnight. Wheels going
round... .wheels within wheels
“I’m slipping back,” he told himself.
“Slipping back—one step forward, two steps
back! How far that way to Tipperary?
.... Good-bye, Piccadilly.... God, you
fool, can’t you shut up? Farewell,
Leicester-square”....
Suddenly the sun again grew to over-
whelming proportions of heat and dazzling
whiteness. His knees trembled so that he
had to stand still to prevent himself from
falling. He saw Etty’s face looming out
of the numbing sheet of white-hot flame
that was enveloping? him. There was some-
thing in the expression of her eyes that he
found humorous utterly, irresistibly
humorous. God, he had to make it humor-
ous lest he should cry!
He heard his voice cracking feebly into
inane laughter.
Chapter X.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., awoke
from a troubled sleep.
For a moment he lay listening to the
sound of voices that filtered down to him
from somewhere overhead. He opened and
closed his eyes once or twice in an effort
to orientate himself. But it was not until
Etty’s laugh rang out that memory asserted
itself. He was in his bunk, of course —in
his bunk on board the Surf Queen. And
yet his last conscious memory was that of
being in that grisly street —the Street of
Hideousness—and laughing at something.
Just what, he could not remember.
That meant they must have carried him
back to the ship. But not they! He sat
up with a jerk. Who but Etty could have
carried him there? It must have been at
least a good quarter of a mile from the
spot where he had, presumably, fainted to
the Surf Queen, and he could not imagine
Etty leaving him lying there in the street
while she went on alone to seek assistance.
No, she would certainly not have abandoned
him, unconscious and defenceless, in that
haunt of loathsome creatures who like as
not would have cut
his throat at such an
opportunity.
So Etty had carried
him back! Fate
was against him. The
dice were loaded and
every throw found
him further and
further in her debt!
The melodramatic
thought tickled his
sense of proportion,
and he chuckled de-
spite his worriedness.
Melodrama w T ou 1 and
not help. There was
no point in thinking like a fool. God knew
he had been one!
And she must have given him some
cocaine while he was still unconscious. His
supra-orbital nerve was quiet, and his mind
was steady.
He looked at his watch. He had been
sleeping for nearly six hours! The wester-
ing sun was already playing its searchlight
on the cabin wall, and the evening breeze
was giving the first indications of its
arrival. With a sigh Johns turned his face
to the wall. He might just as well sleep
again.
But sleep would not come. The low
hum of voices still continued on the deck,
and finally, curious as to the cause of the
long-continued conversation, Johns rose and
dressed slowly, contemplatively. This busi-
ness of Etty—he had to face it sooner or
later. What was the good of continually
putting off the evil hour? Why not get
the thing off his chest, and abide the con-
sequences, whatever they might be. At the
worst it might come to his staying at Lola-
Panga the thought gave him pause;
yet now, in retrospect, the place did not
seem quite so bad. There would, of course,
be no need for him to stay in the town
itself. Anyway he could not go on as he
was—surely to God he could pluck up the
courage to tell the truth?
With this resolution firm in his mind,
Johns left his cabin, and made for the
deck. Let him get it over!
For a moment, as he halted on the white
boards, he thought that the dazzling rays
of the sun must be playing tricks with his
sight. His coming had not been noticed,
and the murmur of conversation still went
on. He put his hand to his forehead to
shield his eyes from the dazzle of the sun.
There were two women seated by the rail,
and one of them was obviously Etty. But
her companion!
John- stared, his breath suspended in
admiration and incredulity. This must be
some chimera of the drug! White women
did not spring from nowhere, particularly
white women of such breath-taking beauty
as the figure talking to Etty. And yet he
knew it must be true—that the girl talking
to Etty was a living, breathing creature.
And suddenly he knew, too, that he had
found that ideal of which he had talked to
Snocker Shaw so long ago!
He no longer bothered to wonder whence
she might have come, or how. There was
no longer any curiosity in his mind. The
simple fact that she was there, on the deck
of the Surf Queen, was sufficient. For all
he knew or cared, he told himself, she
might have come from the Street of Hid-
eousness—it would have made no difference
to him. She was there; that was all that
mattered.
He could not see all her features clearly,
but that was not necessary. He could hear
her voice, and he could see the curve of
her cheek and the glory of her hair. Here,
he knew, was a woman of his own class.
There was no snobbishness in that thought,
but rather a great humility; he had been
segregated so long, alone and isolated in
the swarming masses of humanity that had
weltered in the terrible conditions to which
he had never grown accustomed, that he
knew himself almost afraid to try to pick
up a thread, however tenuous, of the old
life. If it had been anyone else, it would
have been difficult enough; with her, whom
his unsettled mind presented to him as the
girl of his idylls, it was almost impossible.
What would she think of him? The
thought flashed through his mind, shocking
him so that his pulse faltered, and his
breath hurt him. What could she think of
him, finding him in such a purlieu?
A sudden wave of fear obsessed him. It
was not so much the fear of what she might
think should he prove himself unable to
pick up the thread; rather, it was the fear
of putting himself to the test. All very
well if he came through in triumph. But
if he failed, would he ever have the courage
to try again? He knew himself, knew his
own diffidence, his own inferiority complex.
And he knew, too, that a failure now T would
sign the death warrant to his hopes. He
would never be able to pull himself up if
things went wrong now.
While he was still flirting with the idea
of dodging the issue, of turning tail and
scurrying, rabbit-like, back to his cabin,
Etty turned slightly, so that she caught
sight of him.
She broke off abruptly, her sentence half
finished, and, as she called to him, a sudden
wave of color flooded her cheeks.
Johns answered the summons half-
eagerly, half-reluctantly. Asa swimmer
poising for his dive fills his lungs with air,
so Johns drew a deep breath. The stranger
turned at his approach, and eyed him with
an interest in which he ..sensed there was
more than a hint of surprise.
Again the wave of elation swept over
Johns; and there was nothing of fear or
trepidation in the words with which he
acknowledged Etty’s rather flurried intro-
duction. He was smiling into the eyes of
the other girl, and a subtle message, un-
intentional but none the less unmistakable,
flickered for an instant in the violet depths.
It was an instinctive recognition of Johns,
and for a moment they were alone on a
plane to which Etty could never hope to
reach.
But the moment passed, and Etty was
once more with them! Conversation sprang
up, desultory and general, and, although
Etty took but little share in it, she was not
made to feel that she was being left out of
things. As Johns realised, with another
strange feeling of elation, that was one of
the things which, to the girl as to himself,
were “not done.” Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., was undergoing a swift and
exhilarating rehabilitation.
“Miss Campbell’s father has a wonderful
steam yacht!” Etty burst in suddenly. It
was obvious to the other two that she had
been holding herself in check as long as
she could, until the desire to see the vessel
had got the upper hand of her. “She has
promised to show me over it this afternoon.”
“I don’t know that it’s so veiy wonder-
ful,” the visitor protested, with a little
laugh, and again the message of class
camaraderie flashed between her and Johns.
“But I’m certainly going to let you see it,
and form your own opinion. We’ll go now,
if you like. Perhaps Mr. Johns would care
to come, too?”
“Why, thank you” Johns was well
aware that his eyes were providing sufficient
answer so far as his prospective guide was
concerned, but the words served as a safety-
valve for his emotions—and as camouflage
as well. “Why, thank you, I should be
delighted.”
It was the first opportunity that he had
had to study the other closely. His pulse
quickened a little as he noted the purple
shadows lurking in the blue irises and
making sharp contrast with the clear healthy
pallor of her skin; while the slanting rays
of the sun, coming now from almost directly
behind her as she rose from her chair, left
him wondering whether the golden halo
of her hair would be the same without the
burnishing effect. A moment later she
moved into the shadow that the idly-
hanging sail cast, and he saw that it was no
less glorious.
“Spun gold by transmitted light,” he
murmured to himself ; “and by reflected
light, new-minted bronze.”
His eyes strayed towards Etty in involun-
tary comparison. But he found her looking
at him, and her soul was in her eyes, so
that he turned rather abruptly and walked
to the other rail; he had suddenly realised
that Etty’s intuition had told her more
than he had re a 11. y dared to formulate as
yet even in his own mind.
As though sensing his position, the visitor
took up the reins of conversation.
“We’ll go over this minute,” she said to
Etty, taking her arm. “The boat’s at the
stern.”
Whatever Etty’s premonitions may have
been—and Johns had an uncomfortably
acute suspicion of their nature —they were,
for the time being at least, sublimated by
her love for things nautical, and, from the
moment they climbed the spotlessly white
companion ladder that led to the Arethusa’s
main deck, her progress was a succession of
“Ohs!” and “How wonderfuls!” Now and
then, at some particularly rapturous appreci-
ation, her two companions would glance
at one another and a message would flash
between them.
“I work for this girl’s father,” Johns’s
eyes would say, “but that is all,” and the
violet depths would acquiesce “Of course.
That is obvious. You are associated with
them for the time being, but that is all.”
They found George Campbell in the
smoking-room, and he sent the two girls
off while he and Johns had a drink.
“It’s an experience to meet a white man
in this part of the world,” he told Johns.
“We’ve been travelling all the most God-
forsaken spots we could find. It’s Fay’s
twenty-first birthday trip, and so we go just
where she says.” He eyed the long ash on
his cigar critically. “She’s a bit different
from most of the young ’uns these days,”
he said, complacently. “It’s not too many
girls you’d find wanting to buzz off with
their fathers, eh?”
“The tendency seems to be rather the
other way about,” Johns answered.... So
Fay was her name, was it? Fay Campbell
—and her hair was the warm rich tint of
burnished bronze. Laughing lips and clear
blue eyes with purple depths—they seemed
to go with the name of Fay!
He came back to the present to find
George Campbell eyeing him curiously. “I
beg your pardon” he said awkwardly.
“I was saying that Lola-Panga seems to
be more of an ungodly hole than any
we’ve struck up to date. My skipper was
telling me that once it was a prosperous
community.”
Johns nodded. “Yes. Captain Smith—
he owns the Surf Queen —knew it pretty
well in those days. In fact, he had a good
bit of money invested in it, I believe. And
then an earthquake came and practically
wiped it out—financially at least. Its
whole prosperity depended on the copra
plantations.”
Campbell rose to pour himself out an-
other drink. “I think I’ll take Fay for a
look round to-morrow,” he said, and then


• New 4-speed Gear
Box
• New Stronger Front
Cross Member
• New Heavier Front
Spring
———' I
Ford 30-cwt- Stakeside Truck {l3l i' wheelbase) with en-
closed cab and special malleable steel wheels —dual at rear, •
Stronger and
MORE POWERFUL
is this improved 30-cwt.
Ford Truck . . . .
RUGGED strength and
an unusual capacity
for heavy work have
always been character-
istics of the Ford 30 cwt. Truck.
Yet both strength and performance
have now been notably improved.
Performance . . . The New 4-
speed Gear Box (with Power Take-
off) gives higher road speeds and
tremendous pulling power for soft
ground or excavations ... 5 ball
and roller bearings reduce friction
. . . In all forward speeds, the en-
tire drive (from engine to wheels)
is on ball or roller bearings ... A
Power Take-off is provided for
tipping or for belt-work operations.
Strength . . . The stronger Front
Cross Member and heavier new
21" Front Spring provide a greatly
strengthened front suspension,
capable of withstanding hard driv-
ing at speed with capacity
loads over roughest tracks.
Radiator, engine, clutch and
transmission are relieved from all
road strains.
The Ford is now a heavy-duty truck,
unequalled for Australia’s strenuous
conditions ... It has exceptional
pulling power at low engine speeds
—l2B lbs. torque at 1000 revs, per
minute. Its torque-tube drive and
radius-rod construction relieves the
springs of all driving strain, keeps
axles in perfect alignment and
greatly reduces tyre wear. Two
chassis sizes: 13l|" wheelbase for
9' x 6' bodies; 157* wheelbase for
bodies 11' 6" x 6' 6".
Special malleable steel wheels, with
dual rear wheels, optional at extra
cost. . . these improve traction and
increase payloads.
Your nearest Ford Dealer is glad
to supply facts regarding Ford haul-
age costs ... Ford Truck prices are
from £230 upwards, f.o.h.
nearest Ford Works; Sales
Tax extra.
w
THE BRITISH EMPIRE TRUCK
N.C.59
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
stared in astonishment as Johns rose too,
agitation in every line of his face.
“Don’t, for God’s sake!” As he spoke he
laid his hand on the other’s arm. “It’s a
ghastly place. I couldn’t bear her—l mean
I couldn’t bear the idea of a daughter of
mine going ashore here. The place is rotten
with lepers.”
“Leprosy! My God!” Campbell was
staring at him in horror. And the horror
was mirrored in the younger man’s eyes.
Unfamiliar with its comparative innocu-
ousness so far as risk of infection from
casual contact was concerned, George Camp-
bell knew it only as a loathsome disease
.that transformed its victims into pitiable
objects whose arms and legs decayed and
fell away. Thanks to the inaccurate
descriptions with which a dozen novels had
filled his mind, he saw himself and his
daughter walking, unsuspecting, into the
pit of misery. That they might handle a
hundred cases and yet escape unscathed
would have been unthinkable to his
nauseated mind. In fact, to both the men
the very name was sufficient to make them
feel unclean; and the knowledge that Johns
had saved him from such a fate filled
Campbell with a pathetic gratitude.
“Thank God you told me!” he exclaimed,
and he shivered as the gooseflesh rose again
on his spine. He flopped back into his
chair after he had filled his glass with
almost neat whisky. The spirit burnt a
fiery path to his stomach, but it was worth
it, for the warmth spread to his smallest
veins and the gooseflesh died away. He
looked again at Johns, who stood toying
with his glass, undecided whether he should
take his departui’e or not.
“Sit down, and have another drink, young
fellow.” The warmth of the fiery spirit
was in Campbell’s voice, and his eyes
glowed benevolently. “You’ve done me a
good turn —perhaps I can do you one?”
He paused on a note of interrogation,
and waited for the other to speak. But
Johns shook his head.
“I am afraid not,” he answered regret-
fully. His mind was still comfortable from
the last dose of cocaine that Etty must
have given him while he was unconscious,
and it was alert, too, so that he was able
to guess at the offer that ; Campbell was
trying to make to him by tactful sugges-
tion.
“Why not?”
George Campbell, back in civilisation,
was on many boards, and he was not accus-
tomed to young men—and to him all men
under forty were young—refusing his offers
of assistance. “Why not?” he reiterated
testily as Johns continued his purposeless
fiddling with the tumbler.
“Because you can not.” Johns did not
look up. He appeared to be addressing
the glass." “Because I have—obligations.”
“Good God!” Campbell was horrified, and
Johns could not repress a smile as he went
on. “Not with that—that Amazon?”
“No, not with—Miss Smith.”
Johns’s voice held in it the note of reti-
cence, of restrained annoyance .at the
question, and its implied slur on him, that
Campbell was quick to recognise.
“Well, young fellow, it’s none of my
business, I suppose, and it’s obvious that
you think it isn’t anyway.” Campbell
nodded abruptly. “I never was one to butt
in. But it’s a damned shame to see you
getting your living that way. You’re a
’varsity man, aren’t you?”
Johns nodded curtly. v
“I think Miss Smith will be ready to go
back by now,” he said in a tone that told
Campbell that there was nothing more to
be got in the way of information. The
older man’s temper flared up with choleric
vigor.
“Don’t tell me a damn thing!” he im-
plored. “I’ll even forget your name if
you want me to. Good-bye—if you must
be an idiot!”
Johns left him sitting there, glaring at
the perfectly burning end of his cigar. It
was rarely that George Campbell had known
an offer of friendship or assistance refused,
and his anger was more than a little tinged
with admiration. It took spirit, he admitted
to himself as he eyed the figure of Johns
passing slowly out through the dooiway; it
took spirit, damned if it didn’t, to turn
down a good chance just because of obliga-
tions. And he fell to wondering what the
devil the obligations might be.
Out on deck Fay Campbell greeted Johns
with a smile. Etty was already in the
dinghy, with the deckhand detailed to row
them back to the Surf Queen.
“You haven’t had a row with father in
that short time?” Fay asked, with a twinkle
in her eye.
“Well, not exactly a row,” he answered,
with a smile.
Fay laughed. “Poor father!” she grieved.
“I m afraid I lead him rather a dog’s life,
really. He loathes the heat, you know, and
all the way here from Mo-sana we’ve had
the breeze behind us. It has been pretty
warm, to be quite honest!”
Johns grinned as he put his foot on the
gangway.
‘l’ll pray for a real blow to-night,” he
promised. “I’d hate to see you getting”
He broke off as Etty’s impatient voice
reached him from the dinghy, and with a
•little shrug he held out his hand,
t Good-bye, Miss Campbell,” he said.
You see, I’m not my own master. I have
to go back to duty.”
Although the words were banal enough,
he knew that the girl had read into them
, meanan £ intended, and that she had
read, too, the message that was in his eyes.
He went down to the dinghy feeling
oddly proud of himself.
He felt that he had carried off an awk-
ward situation quite successfully. He had
not lost himself altogether, as yet. The
gentleman was still discernible, apparently,
to those who cared to look—and who knew
how to look.
Nor did he notice, consciously at least,
the unusual silence that had fallen on Etty,
who sat trailing one hand in the ciystal
water, while her eyes, brooding and sombre,
were fixed on the receding yacht.
(To be continued next week.)
A Sale of Carpets.
“There will be a sale of carpets.”
—Wireless advertisement.
Carpets for sale! Carpets of string,
Or Persian carpets; rose in a mist;
A praying mat on the desert sands
In a dawn all topaz and amethyst;
Or carpets housed in a city wall —
Precious weavings, I see them all;
The blue-robed merchant with scarlet
fez...
A brazier burns in a corner dim;
He squats with- his pointed shoes upturned,
And a narghile that will comfort him,
By an inlaid stool and a bowl of brass;
He watches the loitering crowds that pass—
A swaddled woman in folded black,
With eyes that burn through a floating veil;
A naked boy with a mouse-grey ox,
A fakir fierce and a leper pale...
And all about me the carpets lie,
Wonderful in their pile and dye;
For here in this far Australian town
The warehouse stock will be sold to-day—
English carpets of prim design,
With rose-pink centres and borders grey;
Accepted patterns from custom’s loom,
Spick and span for the best front room.
A Chinese carpet is with the lot,
With a Chinese bird and a dragon wrought.
There’s a deeper crimson that weavers made,
Too dark perhaps for a pleasant thought;
If some tradesman buys it to place before
His neat tiled grate, will the dragon roar?
Will that Chinese bird in its painted pride
Moult a feather in proud disgust?
An empress tottered across the woof
With her tiny shoes, aud the vain bird must
Decline oij a lesser plane, to meet
The soles of the tradesman’s stockinged feet.
When the Sunday boots are removed and he
Enjoys his rest in his big plush chair,
Will the bright bird reach to the dragon’s
ear
For sympathy in its keen despair,
And will both remember, and tell again,
How the carpet came by that crimson stain?
Carpets for sale! Among the store
Is there one thin carpet of Prophet’s green
With a fringfed edge, and a lotus bud
Of azure petals, that lies between
The quaint design of a mango-tree
Where a red flamingo flaunts gaudily?
For that, O dealer who sells to-day,
Is a magic carpet; ’tis worn and old,
For so many pilgrims have knelt to pray
On its lively green. If the tale were told
The wealth of kingdoms could never buy
That magic carpet; but even I
Dream in my room at the dead of night
That I set my feet on its lotus bud
And sailed away where the Ganges sweeps
Below the moon in a shining flood
And the smoke comes up from the fires that lie
Like a threat of God, ’twixt the earth and
sky:
Should someone buy it who never dreams,
Ihey can cast it down on the bathroom
floor,
Or leave it out in the glossy hall,
It remains a carpet and nothing more,
A shabby tiling at its best, and cheap
-Lhat still, for dreamers, a gift will keep.
And sho.uld a dreamer buy for a song
mi la *'i^ I ' ea^aie carpet, then lie will see
±he lotus blossQm in midnight hours,
golden fruit on the mango-tree,
~, ““h the pert flamingo will preen, its wings
lo tell its talc of a thousand things.
Queensland.
M. FORREST.


WINTER 1932
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Booth is nearly always to be reckoned
with at Rosehill, and the veteran was
strongly represented in most of the flat races
there on Saturday. He started weir by cap-
turing the Juvenile Handicap with Tingalba
(7 to 4), a bay gelding by Treclare ou>t of
Trimacre, a mare formerly trained by him.
Tingalba has had a good deal of racing this
season, but evidently needs it, being a gross
sort. He duly arrived by nearly a length
from Hauwiri, another of J. T. Jamieson’s,
and Delray, who dead-heated with the young-
ster from Maoriland; but it was a rather
slovenly performance, accomplished in slow
time for seven furlongs, 1.29. Tingalba’s
Derby possibilities arc seemingly remote.
Booth had two in the Dundas Handicap—
Nut Cup and old Fuji San. Nut Cup was
backed and went out second favorite, though
seven furlongs is not his distance and he has
tp be hurdled 'off at the barrier. At the home
turn it was plain that nothing had a chance
with Sir Duninald, and the natty chestnut
came home on the bit from Havaspot (4 to 1)
and Aorangi (any price), who finished welt
Seldom is a race of this class won in so
hollow a fashion at Rosehill, and the handi-
capper can scarcely have felt pleased—under-
rating Sir Duninald’s success on the previous
Saturday he let The Verderer gelding in
with Bst. 51b. Six to one was the closing
price, but it was easy to get tens.
Another gelded son of The Verderer, also
from Newcastle, was the elect of backers in
the Club Handicap. This was the three-year-
old Version, who ran two capital races at
Randwick during the autumn round and
t:T ■ 1
&ERT*. # VfoNDERf=UL. <3AME, ISNT. IT "?•*
Gert’/'what did you say THeyfee
PLAYINS **
Bert : “ Rue,e>y\'
GiErt more uke pitch
and toss to me?
was third in the Neivcastle Cup. He made a
gallant attempt to bring oft' the double for
the city of coal, but found Bst. 61b. a bit
too much at the crisis, especially as Munro
took him to the front half a mile from the
judge’s box. He is not robust-looking, and
a smart apprentice entitled to a 71b. allow-
might have made all the difference. When
Version faded, Firbolg (8 to 1) and Cylanta
(5 to 1) had their Warwick Farm tussle
over again; this time Firbolg got the decision
by a head, Version being another half-length
away. Firbolg is held on lease by Moody,
who also has Rogerson, so he is doing well
with his string.
• * • • * *
A change of stables did not bring about a
change of luck for Khartoum, second favorite
(at fours) for the Trial Handicap; Counter-
part was favorite. Khartoum’s victory was
proelaimed in the straight, but he went under
by a head after a brisk set-to, his conqueror
being Sassanides (20 to 1), a three-year-old
(he is by Legionnaire—Dewdrop) in Jack
King’s stable. Intrepid was third.
Merryland (7 tol) sent McShortodds joyful
by taking the Rydalmere Mile; most of the
money staked was for Tantrum and Weotara,
who were beaten out of a place.
* * * *
In the June Stakes at Randwick on Mon-
day, Sir Duninald made his record three
firsts in nine days. A 71b. penalty for his
Rosehill success brought his weight to a
mere Bst. 41b., and he was always travelling
like a winner. Burwood might have troubled
him had the jockey got the three-year-old
out earlier; not sighted until the race was
nearly over, Burwood finished with a rattle
on tlie rails to get third place; Dermid was
second. Oddly enough, Sir Duninald went
out at eights. Now, perhaps, the handi-
cappers will take his measure.
The A.J.C. has soured on jumping races,
but the owners of hurdlers, real or alleged,
do not seem to mind. Only nine second-
and third-raters came out for the big money
in the A.J.C. Club Hurdle. Lady Doris beat
the favorite, Bill Jim, after a close go from
the last obstacle; Kirna struggled into third
place. Prismatic, who had spirited support,
failed to stay.
For the second day at Randwick:—
Flying Handicap: Burwood; next, Golden
Gate.
A.J.C. Winter Stakes: Troilus; next,
Antiochus.
Exeter Handicap: Port Said; next, Nut
Cup.
« * *
McShortodds raked in handfuls of money
at Flemington last Saturday when the V.R.C.
June meeting opened. The York Hurdle
winner was a hot favorite, but one outsider
after another rolled home in the succeeding
events. To cap everything, Metaphor paid
over 108 to 1 in the Buckingham Welter—
a record dividend for Victoria. All that the
bookmakers would offer was 25 to 1.
Bob Inkson has become as famous as Tom
Corrigan, James Scobie, Mick Mooney, Fred
Burn and Collis Boyd were in days gone by.
He gets the best mounts over hurdles
and fences and nearly always rides
the favorite. With Inkson up, Redditch,
followed up his victory at Williams-
town on May 1 by taking the York Hurdle.
The Red Dennis gelding had been raised
41b., making his burden list. 71b., which
took handling on a partially-soaked course,
but he came through the ordeal well. The only
rival to trouble him was Mosstrooper’s stable-
mate Bhopal, who finished very strongly
to run Redditch to a head. ' Bhopal car-
ried 9st., at which she is also weighted in
the Grand National Hurdle and Steeplechase.
It remains to be seen which race Gus
Powell will select for the Bardolph mare.
He has Mosstrooper, Jumna and Bhopal
engaged in both Nationals and can keep the
public guessing until final acceptance day.
Black Devil, third in the York Hurdle,
will have to be reckoned with in the first
leg of the Grand National double, but
Ithuriel did not give a good display at his
first effort over the Flemington hurdles,
However, S. P. Casey is confident that
Ithuriel will go better. At the close of Satur-
day’s sport Ocean Bound ruled favorite for
the National Hurdle, followed by Cockcrow
and Bhopal, with Cenlight and Mosstrooper
next in request.
......
The Hopetoun Steeplechase was captured
in meritorious style by the Onkaparinga
Steeple hero, Archeson. This son of Archery
was making his first essay over the Fleming-
ton country. None of the fences troubled him,
and he obtained the mastery over West Wing
in a bitter struggle down the straight,
Howson, the rider of West Wing, was cen-
sured by the stewards for allowing his
mount to go out wide and cause interference
to Archeson. Even the superb horsemanship
of Inkson could not get Precocious nearer
than third. The half-brother to Rakwool
shared favoritism with West Wing, who is
in the stable which turned out the 1917 Aus-
tralian Steeplechase winner Caibye. Lack of
confidence at the fences kept Precocious a
long way from the leaders until the jumping
was over; his speed enabled him to make
up leeway in the straight. Precocious needs
more education over Flemington. If started
in the Grand National Steeple he will not
have Inkson as pilot, that jockey having
been retained for Solo King. Nor is Alick
Fullarton likely to ride Miss Sheil’s gelding,
He was on Sandhurst in the Hopetoun
Steeplechase, and as the old fellow travelled
well until he fell about a mile from home
Fullarton no doubt will elect to weigh out
for him in the National. Charfort and
Melton Star were killed as the result of
accidents.
Araunah, a grey gelding from Maoriland,
was made a hot favorite for the Royal
Handicap on the strength of a recent suc-
cess at Mentone, but the Hunting Song geld-
ing let his backers down badly. However,
the hottest favorite to be bowled over was
Good Samaritan in the Second Division of
the Rothsay Trial Stakes. This son of
Spearhead was backed down to 5 to 4. He
encountered trouble at the start and never
was really in the race.
Myarin, a horse that has proved his worth
at Randwick, was allowed" to go out at 10 to
1 for the Sandringham Handicap, which ho
won from start to finish by stealing a march
on the field. Ted Fisher, who landed the
A.J.C. St. Leger with Middle Watch, did the
ringmen a good turn by appropriating the
Royal Handicap with Valiant Maid, a 12-to-
-1 chance. She vanquished the consistent
Autopay in the last stride. This Autopay
must not be confused with the M.L. per-
former of that name that annexed the last
Epsom Handicap.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Deel Creed Handicap: King Mart or Scin-
tillation.
Greenvale Welter: Wapilly or Red Rye.
* ■ * * *
“Thormanby”: For the umpteenth time a
sensational sprinter found that the mile and
a half Derby course with its uphill grade
before turning Tattenham Corner was too
much for him, and for the umpteenth time
the mug punters forgot the lessons of the
past and did in their brass on a Two Thou-
sand winner. This is the sorrowful story of
Orwell, backed down to 5 to 4 on for the
Epsom classic and lucky to finish ninth.
The winner was April the Fifth, owned and
trained at Epsom by actor Tom Walls. He
is by Craig an Eran from Sold Again, and
is thus half-brother to Birthday Present,
owned by Dick Wootton, of Sydney, and a
stylish-looking and promising sort. The
Aga Khan took second place with Dastur,
a Solario colt, and the Rosebery primrose
and pink was carried into third place by
Miracle, a colt by Manna. Winner’s price
was 100 to 6, second’s 18 to 1 and third’s
Pod to 9. Australians of pre-war vine
will recall Tom Walls as the unsuccessful
jockey in “The Arcadians.” As an amateur
he did a bit of riding in Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
t The latest Lurich-Meeske match at Leich-
vm aruf hrst thp U first fa if
The Russian’s body-scissors evened matters
in the fourth, but Meeske looked all over a
winner in the sixth; then, just as he had
. „ j.„n r • e ’ . ", .
i is lt s? 3t ® h ' ot Thl iS E
oti tliG referee s left eye* This outed the
arbiter, whose senses were elsewhere when
he tapped Lurich’s shoulders as a token of
wnn° th’e hnMt*
m te
much which these things g .
“rp„,v, u„c
‘Tom Cnbb : Camera has had a decision
given against him. The Canadian negro Larry
Gains outboxed and outmanoeuvred the big
fellow in London. Gains has also beaten the
German Schmeling, so he must be good.
Footbrawl
Playing their second thirteen against N.S.W,
at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, the
English Rugby League footballers had little
difficulty in emerging victors, the final scores
being 18 (4 tries and 3 goals) to 5 (a try
and a goal). At the same time the local men
made a far better showing than the metro-
politans a week earlier. Though they had
to drop a man to fill the vacancy due to
five-eighth Kadwell going off injured, tin-
forwards covered themselves with glory. It
was in the back division that the Welshmen
were outclassed. With the exception of Percy
Williams, who played a fine game against
odds at the base of the. scrum, and an occa-
sional good bit of work by fullback Spil-
lane, the N.S.W. ‘rearguard was a lament-
able collection, though no doubt the loss of
Kadwell handicapped it. Maher at centre
and later at five-eighth did his best, but
was woefully let down by his win gets.
Brown and Morris, accustomed- to play as
centres for their clubs, were fish out of
water. Hall, of Young, of whom much was
hoped, filled the other centre position so in-
effectively that Maher shifted him to the
wing, out of the way. In the forwards.
O’Connor shone in a sound pack and was
the best man of both vanguards, though Eng-
lishman Feetham ran him close. Among the
new English backs, Woods made his first,
appearance on the wing, and Dingsdale was
a success at centre. Adams at the scrum
was mastered by Williams, but Ivor Davies
was clever and effective at stand-off half.
* * * , =!=
The first Test between the English Rugby
Leaguers and Australia at Sydney Cricket
Ground was won by England by 8-6 (two
tries, one converted, to three penalty goals).
In the first few minutes the visitors looked
like running away with the match, but the
combined N.S.W. and Queensland side stood
up splendidly to them, and for the rest of the
match it was anyone’s game. The last half
was a strenuous, scoreless, up-and-down
battle. Between sixty and seventy thousand
saw the match.
* * ■ =5
The Rugby Union grade games on Satur-
day were somewhat obscured by the big
League match at the Cricket Ground. There
were few surprises, Rand wick coming to the
top of the table again by beating University.
26-12. Eastern Suburbs had an unexpectedly
easv trot with Western Suburbs, winning
22-3, West’s only score being a penalty goal
by Barnes. Northern Suburbs and Drum-
moyne, expected to play the match of the
day, gave a funeral exhibition to draw 3-3.
# * * r *
Melbourne’s best League game on Satur-
day was at Geelong, where 17,150 enthusi-
asts parted with £473 4s. 6d. to see Rich-
mond’s Tigers put through the mill. For
long it looked as if the local barrackers were
to go home happy, as, mainly by better
co-operation forward and straighter kicking,
Geelong held a handy lead up to lemon-
time. Moloney was deadly—s goals from 6
shots—while Richmond mostly booted be-
hinds. But in the last quarter Richmond set
f oi jf al * and thTbell ran™
with the teams dead level—69 points all.
The rgi so
w hi }f?
t - , t JL-..W]
torian umpire can t attord to be thin-skinned.
In Melbourne 20,000 watched Gollingwood
TiolH Footsorev with romnarntivp poep arid
| Q VII F _ ~ n
talked ow
Fitzroy — l 42 to 90 ’’ North Melbourne and
st - Hilda played a nice,. mannerly game,
North getting 110 points to 105.. Melbourne
achieved its sixth successive defeat, per boots
, P o 7 • t t ivrelhmirne’K R 3
f Ca to 67 p i ts to Melbourne b bo.
( Continued on nevt pane.)
The inter-University eight-oar race at
Franklin on'the Huon River (Tas.) saw the
Westralian crew W]T ! easily f raai kydnej
ar| d Adelaide. The winners led all the way.
* * * *
Joan Richmond, who left Australia with a
Vic. party that journeyed overland to Europe
to take part in the Monte Carlo rally, driv-
ing with Mrs. E. Wisdom, won the 1000-
mile race for light cars at Brooklands, aver-
aging 84.41 m.p.h.


m
r
<
e»® “SILENT CADDIE
Easily fitted to Bag (without damage to bag).
Easily operated by thumb pressure.
Light and 1 00 per cent, efficient.
No stooping.
No muddy bags and damaged clothes.
126
(Freight 1/-)
Or Fitted, 14/6.
N.S.W. SPORTS STORE LTD.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
i
MONTEREY
> > > oins the
MARIPOSA
*
s'*
of*
SAILING
on her qata first voqaqe
to AMERICA . . . July 2
Faster time, .finer service, and no increase
in fares on this royal ocean pair to America.
The only ships sailing from Sydney via
Auckland to Los Angeles in 18 days.
Feature for feature, the "Monterey" is the
counterpart of the "Mariposa." Nearly every
first class stateroom has a private or connect-
ing bath ... all rooms, first and cabin class, have
individual beds, telephone and furnishings of
home-like charm. Talking screen , . . night club
. ..radio programs... regulation tennis courts...
outdoor swimming plunges.. .daily newspapers.
Through transportation may be arranged to
any point in America or England. Sail on the
"Monterey" and you will arrive in time for the
Olympic Games at Los Angeles. Then Holly-
wood .. . Grand Canyon .'. . Great Salt Lake
.. .Yellowstone ... Niagara ... a continent of
marvels, strung with a chain of giant cities . ..
San Francisco, Chicago, Washington, New York!
FARES Sydney to San Francisco or
Los Angeles
First Class from £73 Cabin Cl ass from £5O/10
Melbourne to San Francisco or Los Angeles
First Class from £75 Cabin Class from £52/10
Now ... MELBOURNE
will be a regular port of call of the NEW Oceanic
super-liners
"MARIPOSA" and "MONTEREY"
This NEW express service commenced with the first
regular voyage of the "Mariposa."
Let us give you full particulars
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Phone: B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 COLLINS ST. and 461 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Phone: Central 288 (5 lines] M6-2A
Footbrawl
“H'otham”: As if the life of a Victorian
football referee was not hard enough as it
is, a fresh burden is to be imposed upon him.
In future, all the whistle-wielders will have
to pass a strict eye test, there having been
constant complaints this season of faulty
decisions due to the referee’s apparent in-
ability to see a hole in a ladder. The un-
happy official will have to pay for the cost
of the test himself, which seems like rubbing
it in, but as some of the leading men are
said to make up to £2O per week during the
season, they will probably grin and bear it.
The move has its points. Arsenal recently
lost the British Association Cup at Wembley
by a goal which the referee ruled as correct,
though Arsenal protested that the ball was
over the goal line before the Newcastle
United player centred it. The movie-cameras
later showed the protesters were right, but
the decision and the match had to stand.
* *!* * -.1;
The touring English Rugby League foot-
ballers confirmed the impression that they
are a formidable side when they met the
Western Rugby League at Orange. The
country players are a hefty lot and of some
skill withal, and there were hopes that they
would do much better than their Sydney
cobbers the previous Saturday. That proved
the baseless fabric of a dream, the final
whistle going with the visitors winners by
50 to 9, or 12 tries and 7 goals to 3 tries.
With one exception the Englishmen fielded
what they are pleased to call their “second
team.” It struck many of the horrified spec-
tators as being even more formidable than
the first lot which had hung Sydney out
to dry.
❖ ijr
“Linesman”: N.S.W. Rugby League has
poor respect for its patrons. In the first
matches against the Englishmen the early
hours were spent watching a lot of sixth-
graders scragging each other, and long before
the final bell the crowd deservedly advised
the authorities to “take, ’em orff!” Besides,
these youths churned up the ground for the
big matches. An effort was made at a
subsequent meeting of the League to put on
better curtain-raisers, chief of which was a
fixture between Country and City; but the
suggestion was thrown out. Considering
that the League will need to comb the
State to find a XIII fit to extend the
Englishmen, it certainly should be more
business-like both to the code and the public
who supply the brass.
' si* ♦
“Stand Off”: A pleasing development of
late years in the Australian Rugby Union
world hags been the institution of an annual
tourney between the Universities of the
Ilugby-playing States. It began with the
return of the Rugby Union code to Queens-
land, and now the development of the
amateur game in Melbourne has added the
Melbourne Uni. to the list. The contest was
played off in Brisbane last week, Sydney, by
beating Queensland and Melbourne, coming
out on top. All the games were close, and
though Melbourne also lost to the Queens-
landers, the junior member of the trio more
than justified its inclusion in this now
established annual event.
* •:= * %
“Hooker”: The recent visit of the Rugby
Union Victorians to Sydney recalled some
reminiscences of the game struggles in the
Mecca of Australian Rules in the long ago.
F. N. _ Scarborough, who managed the first
Victorian Rugby team to visit Sydney—that
was _ in 1889 —apologised at the official re-
ception because there were no Victorian-
born players in the side, which was made
up. of Maorilanders, South Africans and
Britons. “If a boy plays Rugby in Vic-
toria,” he explained, “he is told to give it
up or take the sack.” We have grown more
tolerant with the years, and there is plenty
of room in Victoria and the other States
for the two codes to flourish side by side.
Racquet and Bawl
America followed up the shock of outing
the Australian Davis Cup team in the first
three of the five matches by winning the
two remaining singles. Shields ' accounted
for Crawford by 3 sets to 2, and Vines beat
Hopman 3-1. It was seen from the start
that the Australians were not good enough
for the task set them, and it is evident
that if this country wishes to figure in future
Davis Cup matches it must discard its clay-
footed idols and go looking for new material.
Worse even than the sweeping defeat has
been the attempt of some of the experts
to make excuses. One authority was
“astounded” to hear that the match had been
played on hard courts, and considered this
helped to the defeat of the tourists. Which
is twaddle. Both Crawford and Hopman
play at least half of their tennis in this
country on hard courts, .and should know all
about them. However, the players will get
a chance to rehabilitate themselves at Wim-
bledon, and they should make the most of it.
“Rev. Knucklebone": For years past an
annual exposition of American humor has
taken the form of a promise to send a
tennis team to Australia. Just as regularly
the team fails to materialise. Manager
Clemenger, however, has cabled that “pro-
satisfactory financial arrangements arc
made” the Yanks have promised to send over
Vines, Allison, Van Ryn and Gledhill. If
the matter does! not drop, the quartette is
to leave ’Frisco in September and. after
tackling Honolulu and Maoriland on the
way, will play through Australia, returning
about the end of February. The last time
we saw the Americans on this side of the
creek wasin .1920, when they came over to
lift the Davis Cup and succeeded. That
inc^u 4ed Tilden, Bill Johnson and
Washburn, witli S. Hardy as skipper and
guide. The actual Davis Cup match was
staged m Maoriland, but the tourists sub-
sequently came on to Australia, playing in
Melbourne and Sydney early in 1921.
Car and Cycle
t sc Clutch”: The annual London to
Land s End rally was held last week, 242
cars ot all sorts and sizes facing the
starters Only 199 finished the tricky
course. I hey left London about midnight, and
the first car dispatched reached the welcome
pub at Land’s End at 4.38 next afternoon.
Sixty-eight cars received gold medals, which
means that their performance was praeti-
cally faultless, while silver medals were
handed out to 93 and bronze to 18. Twenty
cars earned no award, and 43 threw in
the towel at various points of the journey.
It is,about time Australian motorists organ-
ised a function on these lines. Some time
ago an All-Australia rally was proposed on
the lines of the Monte Carlo function, but
the matter dropped. Under this scheme cars
from all over Australia were to centre on
Melbourne at Gup-time, performances being
judged on fixed lines and points being
awarded, as in the Monte Carlo event.
M $ Hs
“Whizz”: America’s big annual motor
race, the Indianapolis “500,” drew a crowd
of 150,000 last week to see Fred Frame,
of Los Angeles, get home a minute ahead of
the local champion, Howdy Williams.
Frame’s time was 4 hours 48min. 3.795ec.,
a record for the race, being nearly 9 minutes
faster than the previous best by He Paolo
in 1925. Frame ran into second place
last year behind L. Schneider. The first
“500” was staged in 1911, when Ray Har-
roun won at an average speed of 74.59 rn.p.h.
De Paolo raised the average to 101.13 m.p.h.,
and Frame has further improved on this.
Good as it is, the time is far below that
credited to some of the British and Continen-
tal track drivers.
!jt -I* s}t
“Differential”: Britain is putting the first
car without a gearbox on the market next
year. The makers claim that a variety of
rear-axle drives can be obtained ranging
from a high ration of 5 to 1 to the lowest of
30 to 1. After the engine has started the
driver has only to move a small lever on the
driving wheel and the car moves off at
speeds varying from 1£ to 60 m.p.h., while
any hill is climbed with ease. The secret
is a hydraulic-controlled friction-clutch drive.
The lever controls a tiny oil pump which
acts as a hydraulic ram engaging on the
clutch flywheel, and there is no clutch pedal.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylakc”: The British amateur golf
championship provided a bit of a surprise.
Fiddian, a 23-year-old Scot, who has been
playing wonderful golf this season, was the
favorite in the betting, being acclaimed the
most brilliant amateur to come out of the
universities—he is at Cambridge—since Cyril
Tolley. He was beaten by De Forest, a Lon-
don player, who was considered rather lucky
to win his semi-final with Munn, a noted
Irish amateur. The final was played in bad
weather, De Forest finishing three up and
one. Both men have been invited to play
with the Walker Cup team against America.
It is worth noting that, though there was a
strong Yankee entry for the event, the
visitors were eliminated, as was the case
in the British women’s championship, played
almost simultaneously.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victorian golfers are quit.'
swelled-headed over the excellent showing of
Susie Tolhurst in the British women’s cham-
pionship at Staunton Sands. When she got
through the stroke rounds and qualified for
match play (cobber Cecily Lascelles being
among the discards) it was felt she had a
genuine chance, for match play is her speci-
alty. The impression was confirmed when
she outed Diana Fishwick, the 1930 cham-
pion. A second-round win from the pick
of the American bunch, Miss Van Wie, sent
the Victorian’s stocks soaring, especially as
she had shown a dogged fighting spirit. The
third round saw her beaten, after a bad
start and a fine recovery, by Mrs. Clark, a
county champion and a noted long driver.
Miss Tolhurst took her opponent to the last
green after being dormy three. A bad tee
shot at the 18th saw her short with her
third after her opponent had reached the
green in two. and that ended the game.
Enid Wilson, last year’s champion, retained
her title, winning the final 7 up and 6.
S: * * *
“Colonel Damurize” : One of my objections
to associate golf is that it inevitably tends
to make the allegedly gentler sex indifferent
to those important domestic duties which
should be the sole interest of femininity. With
some experience of this aspect of the game,
I can invariably detect the husband of a
leading lady golfer. He is ill-nourished, and
wears that haggard aspect, so noticeable at
this moment among prominent N.S.W.
Labor politicians, of not knowing where his
next meal is to come from. It is then that
I read with the greatest interest that Miss
Susie Tolhurst. of Victoria, who has done
so well in the British women’s championship,
is, accustomed to milk the family cows,
this keeping her fingers supple for golf.
The idea might be extended indefinitely. To
give only one instance, there is nothing like
sweeping to inculcate the all-important golf
rule, “keep your eye on the ball.” It is im-
possible to sweep a floor while regarding the
ceiling or looking out of the window at the
next-door woman’s washing. The eyes must
be on the ground at one’s feet, and, after all.
that is all that the quoted axiom amounts to.
The N.S.W. amateur championships
which open with the foursomes this week,
have drawn a good entry as far as the
singles (which begin on June 18) are con-
cerned, 80-odd. The foursomes have not
proved so popular. Ferrier will defend his
title, and it is hoped that another youth in
Von Nida, the Queensland champion, will
also be seen in action. Tommy Howard, the
N.S.W. professional crack, who has just re-
turned from the Queensland championships
in Brisbane, ranks this lad as better than
Ferrier and as good as the Victorian Wil-
liams. That may seem a tall order, but
Thomas knows what he is talking about when
golf is the subject.
Miscellaneous
“Bank : The Westralian bowling authori-
ties startled the Australian Bowling Coun-
cil the other day by asking what was the
relationship of official testers. There are
many bowlers who would unhesitatingly give
their idea of the full pedigree of the people
who have insisted on making their lo'ng-
wo-ds conform to standard, but
these were not called upon to speak What
the Gropers were really after was 'the offi-
cial •‘relationship” between the tester ond
association. The council replied
that the official testers held office from the
council itself, and were not under State
jurisdiction. State bodies cannot call on
testers to officiate, but they have the power
to request their members to submit their
woods to the Nark’s inspection and to pay
his fee. Testing and inspection, by the way,
must be done on an authorised table and
not on any green.
* * * *
“Red King”: People who can steel them-
selves to the turbulent sport will hear with
approval that Anthony Horderns have
organised a Metropolitan Chess Club with
headquarters in the Country Club on
the second floor of the firm’s premises on
the George-street side. The club will be
open to players throughout N.S.W., while
visitors from other States will, of course, be
welcomed also. N.S.W. chess champion
Koshnitsky has been engaged by the firm
to conduct the club, and membership costs
ss. per annum.


WOODS'
grea l^>4lMT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds,
and Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy
v,//
/
%
y
m
V
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the
Ball-room Lounge—these have all been
entirely remodelled and redecorated in the
modern manner. The whole forms a glam-
orous and enchanting setting that is without
an equal in Australia.
Reduced Tariff —“Room Only” Rates.
Single Room . . . . from 10/6 per day
Double Room . . from 20/- per day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD.
The
Australia
IMEW
Room
Only
RATES
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Reduced Tariff
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite rushed off
to the Backblocks yesterday. She said shed
got used to radios and amplifiers, foghorns,
sound finance and sound politics, but when
she saw whole pages advertising sound teeth
she felt it was time to take cover.
Justice Rich, of the High Court, who got
a K.C.M.G. last week, comes of an old
Sydney family, and married into one; his
father was a canon of St. Andrew’s Cath-
edral, and his wife was a Bowker. He had
made his mark as an Equity silk before he
became a Puisne in 1912, and he went to
the High Court in the following year. He
has courage and a clear head, and is a man
of the world, as much at home in his
London club as in the Australian, which
members of his family have belonged to since
it originated. When trouble broke out at
Liverpool Camp early in the war he was
given the job of inquiring into it as a Royal
Commissioner, and he startled Australia by
taking up his abode at the camp for the pur-
pose. One of his sons —afterwards killed in
action —was abroad with the A.I.F. at the
time. He is one of the best-read Judges the
High Court Bench has had.
The wives of the Consul-General and the
Vice-Consul for France made their first
public appearance in Sydney last week at
the Lebanon Ball. This is a yearly effort
made by the Lebanon. La dies’ Committee for
their cot in the Children’s Hospital, and
always a great success. The French ladies
(already airing some English) were not
tied to a strange tongue all the even-
ing, for Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert,
his daughter Sophie and Paul Segaert were
among the Consular guests of honor, and
they ripple in French. The Netherlands,
coo, were represented by Vice-Consul Van
Berekel. The president of the dance, Mrs.
A. Melick, wore black velvet, and enter-
tained the official guests, among them Lud
Mayor Walder and his lady, she in a glitter
of silver tissue.
The Commercial Travellers of North Coast
and South Coast take their duty towards
little sick brother very earnestly. For many
years they have supported the Commercial
Travellers’ Ward of 30 cots at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children, and to
date they have contributed £24,685 to its
funds. That G.O.M. of the institution, Dr.
Charles Clubbe, writing the other day to
A. M. Loewenthal, one of the directors of
the hospital, commented on. the fact that,
though the revenue from public donations has
dropped by thousands this past year, there
has been no decrease in the contributions
from the Travellers. Yet no class lias been
harder hit by times and tariffs. Mr. Loewen-
thal in 1916 was active in establishing the
North Coast Travellers’ Fund, and William
Doyne endowed the first cot of the Southern
Travellers more than 20 years ago. It is
one of the records of continuous service the
hospital is very proud of.
Last week in Lismore there was a great
gathering of C-Ts. They came from all the
roads of the North Coast to take part in
a yearly reunion in connection with the Cot
Endowment Fund. To this A. M. Loewen-
thal, who helped to found it, went as the
representative of the Children’s Hospital,
and Mrs. Loewenthal went as a guest.
Scarba, the children’s seaside home run in
conjunction with the Benevolent Society, has
had this energetic lady as president of its
Ladies’ Committee for about 10 years.
You can say what you like, but this Letter
declares that the charity committees have
come out of the past two years with highest
honors. Doggedly, never recognising possible
defeat, the women of the hospital auxiliaries,
the women who every year have spun some
money-web for the benefit of the sick, the
poor, the returned soldier, or literally the
lame dog, have called their bail or fete meet-
ings. They have seen tickets go tumbling
from a guinea to seven and sixpence; they
have clicked their teeth and decided to work
harder and cut expenses. Never once have
they complained, “The problem is too much
for us; we can’t carry on.” Each year the
women work and the. charities reap. The
bone may not be quite so succulent as in
former years, but at least the poor dog gets
something.
At the first meeting for the R.S.P.C.A.
ball in the Blue Room of the Wentworth the
other morning, Mrs. Warwick Fairfax in the
chair, Josephine Marks produced a great
scheme to precede the ball with an old-
fashioned soiree. Mrs. Brigham dropped the
first money into the coffers —a cheque for
five guineas. And, of course, a Bavin was
elected an office-bearer; the ex-Premier s
Valerie will help keep the till.
Up on the eighth floor of the State Theatre
building is that neat little ballroom, the
State Assembly. It’s just the right size to
convey a sense of friendliness, and its walls
are washed with soft hues, broken here and
there by lilac-hung panels—just the back-
ground for Doris Fitton and her Indepen-
dents last week when what threatens to
become Sydney’s Repertory theatre held its
second birthday. Doris received the guests,
supported by playwright-producer Harry
Tighe. She looked a different Doris, having-
exchanged her mediaeval bob and her almost
habitual black laces or tulle for a coronet
of hair and a sheath of red satin as back-
less as Lang’s threatened paper currency.
Margaret Rawlings came in at 11.30 with
a celebrated but very unobtrusive husband,
Gabriel Toyne, and a black satin frock drawn
up to the neck with a garland of white
camellias.
There were about 160 wrestling to express
themselves, in their particular poetry of
motion, and of the frocks a special word
should go to Florence Bennett’s. This was
of water-green moire, very slim till it broke
out into yards of flare, notably a vast fan-
shaped accordeon-pleated one in the front
towards the right knee. The bodice, was
of softest green georgette, painted with violets
so realistic you wanted to pick them. Ger-
trude Johns, the voluble and word-perfect
Miss Shoe in “Mrs. Beam’s” (one of the
longest parts for a woman in modern
comedy), was ivory velvet as to long and
fitting skirt, and rose-red velvet as to the
top deck; Marie Rosenfeld was beauteous, as
any gay Edwardian in a very bustled frock
of red taffetas; and Ernest Lashmar’s wife
was in black fisher net. Pretty Ailsa Suther-
land looked like love-in-a-mist in her blue
chiffons, and the two Doherty sisters., lovely
youngsters with red-gold hair, were, in
Clarence Murphy’s party. Altogether a jolly
evening, and June 11 wasn’t mentioned once.
Suva is to gain a popular hostess. Norah
Brudenell Meyer, younger daughter of the
P. J. Meyers, of Wynghadee, Goulburn,
became the wife the other day of Jack
Stevenson Rennie, whose home is in the Fiji
capital.
May Matthews, one of the two women
who have the Federal Labor party’s endorse-
ment in the current election campaign, has
been acquain-
ted with every
phase of poli-
tics in N. S.
Wales for the
past 14 years.
She has been
a great worker
for the welfare
of women and
children, and
was closely
associated
with the late
Dr. Arthur in
an effort to
bring in child
endoivm ent
long before
the Act was
passed. She
also had a big
share in the
wo r k which
preceded the
passing of the Legal Status Bill in 1918.
For four years, at the State A.L.P. Con-
ference, she moved that steps should be
taken to have the hill introduced, urging
that it was illogical to have women help-
ing to formulate the policy of the Labor
party and to debar them from helping to
carry it out. In 1924 she went, with the
approval of the Executive of the A.L.P., to
the Women’s Labor Conference in London.
While in England she made a round of the
labor exchanges and worked in the Migra-
tion Department in an effort to understand
the problems of the women facing new con-
ditions of . life in Australia. A Dorothy
Welding picture.
With three thousand people trying to get
their game of bridge started by eight, things
were a bit feverish at the Town Hall last
week when the picnic card-party in aid of
Mayoress Walder’s clothing fund was getting
into its stride. Never has the civic fast-
ness been more heavily stormed; the vesti-
bule and even the basement were occupied,
The clever ones had booked early and sat
amid the radiators in the upper storey; those
who went along at the eleventh hour had a
more arctic reception. Everybody clattered
about with bottles and packets of eatables,
for it was one of those beanos at which you
showed your upbringing by arriving with
a bottie of beer and a crayfish, or champagne
and caviare. The Governor and his lady
made a sort of Royal progress through the
rooms—one thought of the Regent at Bath
when Brummel was still Ins friend They
even went below and smiled on the cave-
dwellers Everywhere they were greeted
with salvos of handclaps. Nothing was sold
but cigarettes and fizzy drinks of the ginger-
pop kind. Lady Game wore a short cape
coat of pale-pink satin to match her frock,
and carried the most arresting-looking flow-
ers, like a Vida Lahey decoration: fuchsias
trailing and opulent fro.m a centre of dark-
red roses and mignonette. Mayoress \\ alder
was, as usual, very well dressed; her bright
pink chiffons showed the new beading in
silver and gold, and her short pink velvet
coat had a high collar, such as good Queen
Bess favored. Mrs. A. C. Godhard, who
organised the affair, wore black satins and
played rummy in a group which included
Lady Game. The Julius, Waley, Cocks,
Butters, Maitland, Gordon and Barraelough
ladies were there —really every second per-
son seemed to be weighted with . a title.
Oswald Cheeke had his own decoration: his,
poor thing, was the sticking-plaster the doc-
tor had fastened up two of his ribs ■with. He
hurt them the other Sunday rushing for a
tram whose footboard somehow slipped and
smacked him in the chest.
The wife of France’s Consul-General
Edgar Dussap can no longer feel a stranger
after the warm
welcome given
her and her
husband and
the Vice-Con-
sular Zarzeckis
by the French
Alliance last
week. The
speeches were
applied during
one of Rom-
ano’s lunches,
and ever y-
whore the lady
looked she met
the eyes of
comp atriots
and friends—
Miss Soubei-
ran, Lamer-
ands, Pla y-
ousts, the
Alfred Wun-
derli c h s,
Gladys Marks and knight Norman Kater.
Presently Mrs. Dussap will find herself a
figure in the literary and artistic circles of
the city, as she is an authoress of some repu-
tation. Her books incline to' . the placid
romance rather than to the hectic problems
which the post-war writer has forced upon
us.
The J. G. Williamson firm has donated a
matinee that is a. matinee to three of the
causes nearest the hearts of Sydney women.
The matinee is a full-star performance of
“Rigoletto” to-day (June 8), and the Day
Nurseries, the University Settlement and the
Rachel Forster Hospital will benefit. Claude
Kingston and Mr. Folli, Charlie Westma-
cott and Mrs. F. J. Davy were the original
conspirators for good.
The Persistent Palm Beachers, the main-
stay of the Palm Beach Life Saving Club,
are holding their winter dance at the Blax-
land on the 13th. They delicately convey
that shorts and beach pyjamas will not be
worn.
Watching the dainty little Valobras
admirable yet not inspired personation of
Marguerite in “Faust” on Saturday night,
this Letter recalled Percy Colson’s story of
how Marchesi took Melba, just after she
had carried Paris by storm with her Ophelia,
to see Sara Bernhardt. Bernhardt was more
interested in the fact that Melba would be
singing Marguerite, and began to give her
a lesson in how to act the part, standing in
the middle of her dressing-room at the
theatre, which was rather like a circus tent.
The ceiling was draped, there were animals’
heads on the walls, horns on the mantel-
piece, bearskin and tigerskin rugs on the
floor, and even a stuffed tiger and some
snakes. In her voice of gold the great act-
ress said to the young singer, “When Valen-
tine curses you as he dies, and tells you that,
owing to your sin, your white hands must
never spin again, what must you do? You
must hide them behind your back, ashamed,
terrified, as though you wished you might
cut them off. See!” And she whipped her
hands behind her back, with a look of tor-
ture that haunted Melba . ever afterwards
whenever she heard Valentine sing.
Going through this book of Colson’s, we
who saw Melba only in the later years of her
life are interested in the constant references
to her beauty and grace as a young woman.
The critic of “Figaro” referred to her tall,
slender figure and expressive physiognomy.
“It was Ophelia herself who charmed all
eyes and touched all hearts.” And there is
one portrait of her as Ophelia that shows a
face full of young beauty and sensitiveness.
Montanari’s Faust and Marone’s Mephis-
topheles held the overflow audience on Satur-
day spellbound. Marone was truly diabolic —
the evil which slumbers in all of us exaggerated
and materialised, and very frightening when
seen face to face. Montanaxi sang the music
so well that you could hear, whispering up
through the voice of the gay deceiver, the
agonies of thought, the never-lulled conscious-
ness of the man of science, that all is vanity.
Old and middle age and youth were listening,
and the women wore their finest. Nan Gar-
van, looking like a modern Tosca, brought
the most beautiful wine taffetas that swept
out behind her as she walked. The skirt
wore a deep border of velvet. A small velvet
coat with a very erect collar was an added
lusciousness. ,
On figures, Hilder, Florence Blake and
Robert Johnson top the list of sales so. far
in the Macleod Gallery, with three apiece.
Of Norman Lindsay and “Hop” and Phillips
a couple each have carried the red label,
and, among others, Streeton, Mclnnes, Jack-
son, Minns, Bernard Hall, Syd Ure Smith,
Hilda Brewer and Olive Birkenhead have
had at least one sale.
Those who visited the Gallery at or soon
after its opening two months ago will find
many new things to delight them. The water-
color section in particular has been strength-
ened ; among the new oils there are a couple
of charming things by Gruner and perhaps
the best thing A. H. Fullwood ever did; and.
to provide for those who want something
of moderate price for gifts, the section given
over to etchings has been largely added to.
Bananaland breezes: —
Government House threw open its gates for the
benefit of the Queensland Bush Book Club, of which
the Blair lady is a vice-president. The dining-room
was gay with poinsettias, roses and chrysanthemums
with a background of tall palms. President Mrs.
Stanley Chapman, in black satin and nutria fur,
helped to receive the guests.
Administrator Blair and his lady, she in black
mariette with a coat of amethyst and gold, faced
with fur, were present at the charity dance and
card party on the Manunda. Bridge players over-
flowed from the music saloon to the deck. Red,
white and blue streamers were latticed overhead
and there were amber, jade and sapphire lights.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart’s rose-pink moire was
worn with a short coat of black and silver
lame, with a white fox collar; the Mayoress was
in white with a silver and fox fur coat.
Flag-Lieutenant G. G. 0. Gatacre, of the Canberra,
son of the R. H. W. Gatacres of Northgate, Brisbane,
has given the ring of promise to Wendy, daughter
of the M. E. Palmers, of Mosman, Sydney.
The Administrator lunched with the committee at
Ascot. The Blair lady, in black marocain with a
collar of jade georgette and a black and white hat,
was accompanied by Mrs. J. L. Woolcock, in black
and white, and Elsie Stirling. Mrs. A. H. Witting-
ham chose rust-red; Mrs. S. Geoffrey Archbutt wore
black; Mrs. D’Arcy Winten, black and white; Mrs.
E. K, Tully, navy; Una Bell, brown; Mrs. Cecil
Palmer, mastic and henna check. The Blairs enter-
tained friends to tea on the committee-room verandah.
Audrey Anderson, pianist, has returned from
Europe where she was a pupil of Max Pauer and
Ruoff. The Andersons went to Sydney to meet
their daughter.
Llywelyn Lucas, the Tictorian, who won the Aus-
tralian three-act-play prize, has not plucked her
eyebrows or cropped her hair. Her clever face is
most feminine, and she adores cats and dogs and
gardening and country life, is a musical critic of
note and has a strong personality. Added to youth
and brains is the ambition to succeed in her job,
and that is undoubtedly literature in all its branches.
She has been some eight years in Queensland.
Barbara Sisley produced the Empire pageant in
the City Hall, and Mrs. A. E. Moore was a charming
Britannia. Beatrice Pugh sang “The English Rose,”
and George Finney played Alfred, who let the cakes
burn. H. G. S. Forbes was Drake with his drum,
and Godfrey Morgan, junior; was General Wolfe in
the Canada set, Mrs. P. J. Symes playing Canada.
Naera Sampson made an attractive India.
Newstead House, whose wide verandahs and large
room have seen gay parties, was the scene of a
function when the Historical Society took possession
of some of the rooms for the housing of its treasures.
The Lud Mayor, who was accompanied by Mrs. J.
W. Greene, in brown, did the opening. Inigo Jones
deserted his weather charts to preside, and with his
wife, in navy and grey fur, received the guests,
among whom were Archbishop Sharp and Drs. E.
S. Meyers and E. S. Jackson with their respective
spouses.
Dorothy, daughter of the R. S. Hills, Coorparoo,
has been awarded a fellowship at Newnham College,
Cambridge. She is coming home in August to see
her parents.
Mrs. Irene Longman, M.L.A., who is again con-
testing Bulimba, is the wife of Heber Longman,
Director of the Queensland Museum. A dark-haired
trim little woman, she has done public work for the
past 30 years, and speaks much more pleasantly than
the average male politician. She is being opposed
by a young ex-civil servant, W. J. Copley.


SPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend, your next holiday amid ideal surroundings f
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE via N.Z.
WhV
NOT
NFXr
Holiday
247 George Street,
Sydney.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
59 William Street]
Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
TWILL Captain FRANCIS BLACKBURN-
DOE, formerly of England, please com-
municate with SPEHR & ROBERTS,
Solicitors, Mount Gambier, South Australia,
Solicitors for his son, Philip Doe?
“...my baby came out
of hospital in a dying
condition”
but just a daily dose of
Radio-Malt, the unique
vitamin food, and a
mother’s careful nurs-
ing wrought all the
difference; now she is
a "baby to be proud
of." Radio-Malt is
good for mother, too!
Try it for yourself.
RADIO-MALT
Doctors throughout the world
giot Radio-Malt to their own
families.
m
RADIO
If your chemist does
not stock Radio-Malt
write to
THE BRITISH DRUG
HOUSES ( Australia )
LTD., 260 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
CHRONIC
RHEUMATISM
OR ARTHRITIS
Turns Active People into
Dependent Cripples
There are three main types of Rheumatism,
all painful and dangerous. The Arthritis type
causes intense suffering; interferes with work
and pleasure; frequently disables, and some-
times leads to other ills resulting in death.
Among the signs of Arthritis are: a “below
par” feeling, bowels disordered, digestion poor,
breath bad, headaches, feverishness, aches and
pains, stiff, sore joints, stiff back. If the
disease is not treated it progresses, causing
overgrowths on the joints and thus crippling.
Loose bodies of bone and gristle may form,
suddenly wedging in the joints and preventing
movement. The thing to do is to tone up the
kidneys; assist the urinary organs and elimin-
ate uric acid, by taking Harrison’s Pills. This
remedy of a London doctor, being effective in
all three types of rheumatism, is fast sup-
planting old-style kidney pills. Harrison’s
Pills accord with recent scientific findings in
regard to kidney, bladder, urinary and rheu-
matic disorders—they are antiseptic in action
and give such quick and positive relief that
most sufferers regard them as “miraculous.”
Harrison’s Pills clear up aches, pains, stiffness
and swellings even where other things com-
pletely fail; chemists sell them in three in-
expensive sizes, and the distributors offer
money back to any sufferer trying this remedy
and failing to get prompt relief from it.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Big Business Ball at the Town Hall
to help St. Vincent’s Hospital was well
attended. Acting-Governor Irvine and his
lady, she in sapphire-blue velvet, were there.
The president of the ball committee, B. A.
Ivimber, was accompanied by his wife, whose
choice was black lace, others in the official
circle being Dr. Norman McArthur and Mrs.
McArthur, whose gown was satin of hya-
cinth-mauve hue. An interlude was a sylvan
dance scena in which nymphs in green
chiffon, barefooted, their hair wreathed with
pink roses, flitted from a hunter with bow
and arrow.
The advent of the Matson liner Mariposa
bridged a gap of 80 years and a bit by restor-
ing a long-severed link between Melbourne
and the U.S.A. Not since the gold rush to
California in the late ’forties has a passenger
line operated between this city and the
land of the Stars and Stripes. By a coincid-
ence, the richest diggings in the days of the
Californian gold boom were in Mariposa
county. The Monterey, the Mariposa’s sister
ship, takes its name from the principal town
of that county, which in the early days of
gold-digging was capital of the State. Crowds
visited the Mariposa both night and day,
and on the eve of her departure for Sydney
there was a private dance aboard. Cap-
tain W. R. Meyer and George Aitken, the
latter representing Dalgety’s, extended the
glad hand. Mrs. Aitken was in the offing in
black chiffon. U.S.A. Consul John Dye was
present with his wife, whose frock was of
pale pink angel’s skin with matching coatee.
Stephen Morell and his lady were there with
daughter Sheila, whose georgette frock was
geranium red. The Lud Mayor turned up
late in the evening, having had another en-
gagement. Mrs. S. Grantham had her daugh-
ter Deidre with' her, in a vivid green frock.
Valerie Purves chose a frock of wine-colored
taffeta. Mrs. W. Cameron, of Macedon, wore
crepe romaine of lemon hue. Others who
danced were Mr. and Mrs. Harry Creswick,
Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. White, the Clarence
Marriotts, Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson, Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Whitelaw and Mrs. H’arold
Luxton. J. L. Fosbery, shipping manager
of the Matson line in Melbourne, was present
with Mrs. Fosbery, whose gown was of ruby-
red lace.
Looking out from this Broothorn picture is
Mrs. R. G. Beggs, of Bulo Gherin station,
Beaufort, who
is president of
the C.W.A.
She is an
original mem-
ber of the
a s s o c i ation,
and was pre-
viously con-
nected with
the Women’s
Institutes of
the Victoria
League. She
is an accom-
plished crafts-
woman, among
her speciali-
ties being
gloves, quilts
and ma t-
tresses, and
she was one
of the active
workers of
Wool Week. Her two daughters are also
keen members of the association and good
demonstrators of certain lines of handicrafts.
The Old Rosbercon Grammarians’ reunion
at No. 9 had an attendance of close on two
hundred. Miss Tisdall, the headmistress, and
Miss Constance Tisdall were guests of honor
and were handed posies by the head prefect,
Loraine Young. The president of the asso-
ciation, Mrs. A. E. Kelso, who was in corn-
flower-blue lace, headed the organising com-
mittee, of which Fay Piper, who danced in
white chiffon, was hon. sec.
The Anthonians put on a dance at the
Australia to help St. Anthony’s H'ome, and
the hop was well attended. The president,
Lucille Meehan, came in a gown of hyacinth-
blue lace; and the hon. treas., Miss M. Tait,
was clad in white georgette. The joint hon.
secs, were Alma Mabous, in white chiffon,
and Nan O’Callaghan, whose frock was of a
warm maize tint.
The hon. treasurer of the committee of the
Ladies’ Work Association, Mrs. Joseph Levi,
had her co-associates to afternoon-tea in
order that a presentation might be made to
Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt, who has managed the
L.W.A. for the last 30 years, and has now
resigned the office. Mrs. John Turnbull, the
acting-president, handed Mrs. MacDevitt a
handsome bag and a cheque.
After a long sojourn abroad Mrs. L. F.
Bean has returned to Melbourne. She sum-
moned many of her friends to bridge and tea
at the Alexandra Club, where the decorations
were in deep blue and gold. The hostess,
who had the support of her sister, Mrs.
Harry Wilkinson, added a soupcon of pink
to her black gown and millinery.
Members of the Friendly Union of Sailors’
Wives and Mothers said good-bye to their
president, Mrs. Cyril Benson, who is return-
ing to England with her husband, Captain
Benson, who has been superintendent at
Flinders Base for the last three years. The
wife of Rear-Admiral Hyde will occupy the
vacated chair.
The Allen lady, senior vice-president of
the Victoria League, and Mrs. Courteney
Dix were among the six hostesses for an
afternoon-tea gathering. Early wattle and Ice-
land poppies and calendulas decked the rooms;
and during intervals of chat Mrs. H. Flem-
ing Dunstan, also a hostess, sang several
songs, i Mrs. Cyril Benson said her adieux
and gave a short address on her war work in
England.
Mrs. Murray Waller, lately State organis-
ing secretary of the C.W.A., received the
other day a farewell gift from the younger
members of the Yarra branch. The present
consisted of bookends of brass Buddhas upon
teak stands and was forwarded by the hon.
secretary, Lynette Dickenson.
Sylvia Lawrance, bride-elect of David
Syme, and her sister Betty were hostesses
at a five o’clock tea-party at their home,
Kinnoull, Heyington, which gave the guests
an opportunity of offering their congratula-
tions. Mrs. Neil Lawrance, wearing corn-
flower-blue lace gown and black velvet hat,
gave her daughters a helping hand.
The Proscenium Club’s headquarters in
Nicholas Building were dolled up with
flowers and gumtips for the club’s dance.
Mrs. Cockerton, the president, was in white
chiffon with cape drapery. Frances Dillon,
in black chiffon, warbled very charmingly
during intervals.
At a hop staged by the prefects at St.
Catherine’s, Toorak, the principal, Ruth
Langley, with a sprinkle of glitter on her
black gown, supported the youthful hostesses,
who included Freda Connolly, in red velvet;
Lucille Stephens, in white organdie; Judith
Burston, in dark-green chiffon; Patricia
Campbell, Jean Wood and Mary Newell.
The school’s 1 colors, two blues and gold, were
to the fore in the decorations.
Mrs. Catherine Neill, who came across
from Adelaide a couple of years ago, was
a leading member of that city’s Rep. Soc.
and produced
some of its
plays. In
Melbourne she
has appeared
with the Grog-
an McMahon
Players and
has done plays
“over the air”
with Frank
Clewlow. Now
she has opened
a school of
dramatic art.
and has gath
ered together
a sufficiently
large number
of as p i ring
mummers to
put into re-
hearsal one of
the favorite
musical com-
edies of tlie .T.C.W. repertoire and Betty
Davies’s play “The Touch of Silk.” The por-
trait is by E. J. Adamson.
At Melbourne Grammar School chapel
Edna, only daughter of the G. Flacks, of
Goulburn Valley, exchanged vows with
Horton, son of Mr. and Mrs. S, H. Riggall,
of Gippsland. The wedding gown of ivory-
tinted satin had appliques of velvet, and
white tulle in clouds fell from a wreath of
orange blossoms. Mary Riggall, the ’groom’s
sister, attended the bride, wearing light buff
velvet, with russet and brown leaves about
her coiffure. Rejoicings were staged at the
Oriental.
Kathleen, eldest daughter of the C. J.
Aherns, of South Yarra, is packing her
trousseau and is off to England at the end
of the month. There she will wed Flight-
Lieutenant Denny, who was on the personal
staff at Government House during the
Somers regime. Lieut. Denny piloted Lady
Somers’s ’plane On various expeditions.
Adelaide has a word to say:—
The Uni. tennis girls from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane were given a good time during their week
in Adelaide. The Uni. Women’s Tennis Club
organised a dance in their honor, a most successful
affair. Miss Morris (president) received, wearing a
smart apricot confection. Mauve irises decorated the
supper tables.
The weather was warm enough for summer frocks
at Victoria Park. James Hall (chairman) entertained
at afternoon tea, assisted by daughter Gwen in brown
tweed ensemble with a small velour hat in the same
tone.
The Hunt Club has had its first run.
The younger members of society have taken a
sudden fancy for riding, and several schools for
teaching the same have come into existence.
There was a crowd at the Theatre Royal for “St.
Joan.” His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven brought a
party. The London milliner responsible for the hats
worn in the play produced a fantasy in grotesque
chapeaus.
The first social function the English mummers
attended was an at-home given by Mayoress Glover,
who wore a black georgette with a vest of cream
beaded chiffon, and a black baku-straw hat. Dame
Sybil Thorndike was in biege crgpe de Chine, and her
hat was of flat-brimmed brown velvet in the Bo-
peep style.
The Women’s Non-Party Association entertained
Dame Sybil and Lewis Casson at a large luncheon
party held at the Grosvenor, North-terrace. Mrs.
Harvey Johnston, the president, was hostess. The
Lyceum Club gave a morning tea in the Dame’s
honor.
The C.W.A. organised a golf gymkhana at the
Mount Osmond Country dub to raise funds for
establishing a cottage at the seaside for country
women. Phyllis Crompton, Isobel Ritchie, Ursula
Barr-Smith, Margaret Holden and Peggy Horn were
the committee. Lady Hore-Ruthven was present all
day; his Ex. came up in the afternoon and they
both took part in the Canadian foursomes. Lady
Hore-Ruthven presented the trophies.
A most successful bridge party was held in the
Town Hall. Ida Turner arranged the stage with
poinsettias and wattle in high tripods. About 200
tables were occupied. Afternoon tea was served by
the Victoria League Emergency Corps. Lady Hore-
Ruthven, who arrived at the close of the afternoon,
was received by Mayoress Glover and gave away
the prizes.
Westralia wools away:—
For the Fashion Fair in G. H. ballroom every
ticket was sold and the queue stretched out into
the squelchy drive. Seventy district winners trod
the dais in costing-less-than-30s. woollen frocks made
by themselves. Rose Lewis, a 19-year-old lass, was
voted “Miss Westralia,’’’ carrying off £5O and much
honor and glory for her Burgundy frock with its
multitude of buttons and Guardsman collar. “Miss
Nedlands” (Shirley Thomas) displayed exquisitely
faggoted pipings upon her brown inarocain. Mrs.
Ivy O’Keefe got wild applause as “Miss Goldfields”
with her lemon flannel rig. The half-dozen other
prizes went to girls mostly drawn, from metropolitan
and suburban centres.
The Wool Queen was crowned with a blaze of
magnificence in His Majesty’s. What with proces-
sions, wool displays and tremendous advertising,
interest ran so high that the ceremony was repeated
on a second evening. The crown was placed upon
the brow of Harris, Scarfe and Sandover’s Miss
Lilian Coyne, who rustled a crinoline strewn with
skeins of wool. In her wake fell a ruby-red velvet
train edged with fleecy shreds of wool and studded
with diamente. Ahern’s Mrs. Bourke looked digni-
fied with her powdered hair, and Moore’s Miss
Monahan was exquisite in her moulded frock pat-
terned with woollen gem-centred flowers. With
Ernest Cuthbertson at the controls the pageantry
went forward without a hitch.
For one week Westralia gave pride of place to
the sheep. A monster merino stared balefully upon
the Wool Ball, while his grandchildren frisked upon
the lush-painted pastures of the G. H; balconies.
The Wool Queens emerged in all their finery from the
v.-r. doorway. Miss Northmore lent her patronage
in rust-red georgettes swinging in diagonal tiers.
Mrs. Ambrose, covering her auburn head with a
white wig, wore red flowers with safety. Mrs.
Sam Elliott chose black, as did Mrs. C. P. Smith.
Mrs. Jack Butcher’s pink taffetas, much befrilled
below the knee-line, introduced a coquettish Dolly
Varden hat; Marjorie Calthrop slipped a velvet
coatee over her wood-nmyph chiffons; Marie
Freedman displayed ivory satins and a scintillating
silver coat; Hazel Foreman wrapped herself, in the
green of early spring; Mrs. Gordon Hislop and Mrs.
Elgee showed their preference for black, while
white fur hugged the neckline of Mrs. Eric Sand-
over’s black ninon; Mrs. Malcolmn Plaistowe wore
slinky blue velvets; Mary Main twirled a cloud of
tangerine chiffons, and Mrs. Alec Lawson was
wrapped in the blush of early dawn.
The Mitchell lady unveiled a portrait of Mrs. G. V.
Drake-Brockman at “Sunshine,” the Country Women’s
Association home at Cottesloe Beach —and thereby
jogged our memories of the heroism of a pioneer
girl. In 1876 the subject of the portrait was the
youthful Grace Bussell. In that year the Georgette,
the only vessel sailing regularly between Fremantle
and the eastern colonies, ran on the rocks off Cape
Natural iste and young Grace and a stockman assisted
in the rescue of 50 people in a pounding surf. In
“Blue North,” The Bulletin’s recent serial, the
little Georgette plays an important part.
Hobart keeps its end up:—
Parliament opened with the scant amount of cere-
mony which is a feature of most public affairs in
these economical days, and the Lieut.-Gov.’s resplen-
dent regalia looked out of place id the drab setting.
There was no tea after the opening, the money
usually devoted to it being diverted to charity.
Chairman Dr. G. E. Clemons and his wife dis-
pensed hospitality in the committee-room to a big
crowd at the Mowbray race meeting. Mrs. Clemons’#
soft navy cloth coat had a deep collar and cuffs
of light opossum fur, and her close toque was of
navy and white felt. Mrs. Andrew Raeburn was in
a tailored suit of black facecloth and black velour
hat. Speaking generally, feminine dressing was
wintry, but smart; tweeds, furs and cloth, with
brilliant scarves for relief, and small hats with a
saucy tilt predominating.
Bishop Hay, with eight padres to back him, opened
the new wing of the Collegiate School with impres-
sive ceremony. Sister Rosemary, educational head
of the L.O.S. in Australia, came from Sydney. The
bishop farewelled Sister Jean, who has been head
of the school for the last few years, and welcomed
Sister Dora Beatrice, who has returned to her old
job.
Dances in aid of the furnishing fund for the new
wing have kept the “Old Girls” and young girls
of the Collegiate School on the go lately. The first
of the series served to christen the big room in the
wing; the second was held at the Masonic Hall.
Nancy Bidencope was hon. sec. for both shows.
The relief canteen which ran so successfully last
year under the management of a bevy of young
matrons and girls, has been reopened. Mayor and
Mayoress Wignall re-launched the undertaking, and
though some of last year’s most active members are
out of the island, there is a strong committee ready
for the work.
Mrs. Howard Buchanan gave a very cheery after-
noon party to Mrs. Cox Taylor, whose life has been
a round of parties since her husband’s retirement.
An electric torch and an autograph album full of
friends’ names gave a foundation to the affair.
Pink chrysanthemums in the drawing-room and the
same blooms in gold and tawny shades with trails
of autumn foliage on the tea table figured in the
decorations. Mrs. D. McLaren, Mrs. F. S. Hill and
Mrs. C. F. M. Travers were also hostesses to the
popular little lady in the same week.
Mrs. Spencer—Gwen Morton that was—renewed
many old friendships during the Oronsay’s stay in
port. She is on her way to England for a year’s
holiday.


w
and
A Sure, Tried and
Trusted Remedy
Backache is seldom, if ever, just backache.
The dull aching, the sharp stabbing twinges of
pain, the down-dragging, head-aching, nerve-
depressing misery has a deep-seated, dangerous
cause—weak or diseased kidneys.
Always ailing, pain-ridden men and women,
you must face the facts. Men—in these
anxious times you cannot afford to start and
carry through the day crippled with pain,
showing in every movement, in your face, your
very eyes, signs of age-giving, wearing-out
kidney trouble. Women—you cannot wilfully
neglect or tinker about with your health until
breakdown comes in sight.
When we firmly state that De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills will end the suffering you now endure and bring
back days of happiness, there are thousands of wives and mothers,
nurses, clergymen, chemists, and a host of men and women in all
walks of life glad to tell you how De Witt’s Pills ended their
“untold agonies,” “maddeningtorture,” “crippling pain”—in some
cases after years of suffering.
Mrs. A. Weightman, 3 Bridge Street, Granville, N.S. W., writes lt is with
the greatest gratitude I write to tell you about the wonderful benefit I have
derived from your pills. I was a great sufferer for eight months from
kidney and bladder trouble, and my back was very bad. I could scarcely
walk any distance. / was hardly ever out of my room, and I was often
confined to my bed for weeks at a time. / suffered torturing pain day and
night. I was nearly at death's door , but since using De Witt’s Pills I feel
like a new woman. My backache has completely gone, and lam able to
feel that life is worth living now. I cannot speak too highly of your
wonderful pills, and will never be without a bottle in the house.”
ev
11 s®«i
k'i/J* <£.>:** f -shc ‘fk
-
: . • ■
rai
Sir
'
MB
II
1
: ‘ mi
%&&&
Vi-:
Esssra
■
HM|
■ :'r- r
H
Wi
&}
BgWf
.
ii
'
Spjsj!
1
Worn-out, ill, life a misery one day, the next—free from pain,
able to enjoy work and pleasure—this is the experience of thou-
sands who have taken De Witt’s Pills for Backache, Rheumatism,
Swollen Joints and other painful complaints caused by Kidney
Trouble. Why wait a day longer ? Get a bottle of this 40-year-old
remedy from your chemist to-day and enjoy good health again.
De Witt’s Pills are recommended by one-time sufferers every-
where, and used the world over. You will see and know they
are doing you good within twenty-four
hours. There is no other medicine which
gives this safe, quick and certain benefit.
There are cheap imitations. You will
wisely ask for the genuine De Witt’s
Pills. Sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 3/6, or larger, more economical
size, 6/6. Never sold loose.
DeWltts
Kidney
and
Bladder
Pills
As
X«S
mk
»*l/v
■Atm
US
E//X^VV
The Spider.
MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING'S POWERFUL STUDY OF A
TERIBLE OBSESSION.
CAVENDISH was wondering what the
devil he could say to the woman. He must
say something. But what could he say.
There. seemed to be some sort or heavy
pulse in the air to-day. And that foolot
coroner, dressing him down and looking
‘at him as, it' he were mud! It wasn tMs
fault that Minna had shot herself. fehe
was that type —emotional, extreme, uncon-
trolled. Do anything in the heat of the
moment or in sudden disappointment, lhose
fair soft, fluffy women were like that, under
their creamy skins. Or most of them were.
The coroner had been Over the odds. Because
he, Cavendish, had been the girl s ’oven
sort of thing that might happen to anybody.
The rhythmic oppressive pulse was sound-
ing again, like a thick dim beat in this
dreary yard, in this morgue, and up those
steps in the Coroner’s Court. And over
there, on the bench in the corner, the old
woman sat, dry and shrunken, huddled out
of the sunshine. Minna’s grandmother.
Abruptly he faced it, and walked across
the yard, squaring his big shoulders and
composing l his fine animal face to sympathetic
gravity. At his approach she looked up, her
old patient eyes watching him in silence.
“I wanted —to express—my deep sympathy,
Mrs. Harkness. Minna expected a star-part,
in the new operatic company” —he stumbled
ou through the horrible job—“she was too
young to stand the disappointment.”
“That wasn’t why she killed herself, she
told him softly, her motionless eyes still
watching him. “We both know that. ’
He, tried once more. “She was only
eighteen—so young to tackle”
“You like them young, don’t you? The
voice was not raised, nor was it accusing him.
Cavendish found nothing to say.
“The star-part was how you cheated her,
I know. You knew she couldn’t have tackled
it, if she had got it—if it ever existed. It
was your way of playing on her youth and
ambition at once—an old, old way.” The dry
quiet voice was almost impersonal. Lhe
Coroner knows that. And we know it, too.
Cavendish pulled himself together. 4 1 am
deeply sympathetic in every way,” he said,
“but I resent the attitude of blame”
But the voice was flowing on again, ignor-'
ing his resentment and sympathy. “What’s
done is done. You are that kind of man.
And my Minna is gone. All the talking in
the world won’t change you. Nor all jthe
endless grief bring back Minna. It’s, done.
A light flickered in the stilled calm eyes.
“You arc a spider, really. You sit waiting,
pounce and destroy, and scurry homd’ -
The wall of the court building seemed to
be blackening.
“It’s done,” she repeated, as he turned to
go out. Halfway across the yard he heard
her voice again: “Mr. Cavendish!”
He came back and waited.
“The end of the male spider is nearly
always the same.”
“Yes?” he prompted in the pause.
She (.chuckled, a grim evil sound. “The
female devours him,” she said.
Across Circular Quay aud iu Macquarie-
street the same pulse was beating, in the
hall of the club and in the dim familiar
room. He nodded to two men talking in
one of the shaded windows, touched the bell-
push, and threw himself into a chair, still
subconsciously aware of the never-ending beat.
Pouring the sodawater in lie swallowed
the drink, which had a flat acid taste. Il'e
shuddered, and put down: the glass.
Pretty Minna—soft and- fair. and sweet!
It was a beastly business. The old woman’s
chuckle sounded in his ears. "Spider!” she
said again, driving Cavendish, surly and
angry, into the past—more than 50 years
into the past, back before he was born.
Over his face a shadow stole as he remem-
bered old Nurse’s voice speaking of that
night. The big spider that had fallen sprawl-
ing over his mother’s face, her scream •of
terror, the hurry and confusion while scream
on scream shuddered in their ears, until at
last she was quiet, save for the broken sobs
of panic in her sleep. She had always been
afraid of spiders and all crawling things—
like many women, but a little more than
most. She had died at his birth. For a time
the women had feared that he must have
a spider-mark on his skin.
He had no spider-mark, but he had worse.
He had his mother’s blind terror of that
night spread over all his life. H'e had never
lost this misery of physical panic at sight
of a spider; as a boy, a youth, a iqan, it
had bedevilled him. It did so now.
It was tlie one blemish in his full and
satisfying life. He was rich enough, very
strong and healthy, only fifty. Active. Ins
mind and personality always engaged m
efforts and ventures, his days full and pro-
ductive ; only the haunting spiders were
wrong, their swift shadowy cunning, the
dark evil look of them. Lying in wait in
endless patience about the world !
He looked at the bell-push again. No.
The club whisky was foul. Or —he .wasn't
well himself; that’s what it was. The beat
came, measured and quiet, across the room,
like vast footsteps. He’d have a good lunch,
a bit better even than usual.
Perhaps other girls had killed themselves
because of him. He hadn’t heard ; there were
a good many of them and they seemed to
vanish, so. Soft fair girls, golden and
sweet: little emotional fluffy things who wept
happily and clung to him. Not dark ; never
dark; dark.'girls were too' like spiders.
Yet there was one dark woman who’d
caught him on the hop and thrown him into
a temperamental storm that for a time had
blotted out the world. She was wonderful —
wonderful. Dolores Urzon, a Mexican
Spaniard. Like a crooning dove, and like a
hurricane. Dark as a raven’s wing, with black
eyebrows meeting over her straight nose and
hair like midnight. Tender, comforting sort
of woman; but too tempestuous. In the
end he had dodged her without a word —just
vanished, scared of a deluge of tears and
reproaches and sorrow. There might have
been a knife in it somewhere, too.
And Minna, little Minna, was dead.
Groups seemed to be gathering nithuoo^
It was lunch-time. He got out of the deep
chair and walked over to
door, the pulse keeping m dim step with hi •
umeh 4M little. Or,. rather, it seemed
to do too much' in confusing and
the ordinary appearances of that
was extraordinary. He could believe- that
the dust of Macquarie-street . was crushing
him, that the club must fall on him it h
sat still for a moment. Iso good,at ai .
In the afternoon he sent in lus name to
Leverson, the nerve-specialist. heverson was
a member of the club-and a good fe V
“Hullo. Cavendish,” Leverson s glance
swept lightly over the tall handsome figuie.
“Is this professional?”
. “YcS.” . by nil
Le verson glanced at him again. *ou
don't look it,” lie said. What s the matt r.
“I fancy it’s nerves. Or it mi„ht be my
heart. There’s a sort of thick regular drum-
ming going on all the time. That might be
heart, mightn’t, it?” „ T
“It might be,” Leverson admitted. is
that all?"’ , . . . T , f„n
“No. I hate everything. And Im full
of silly terrors ; and at the court’ Caven-
dish told him what ho could.
“Take off your coat and vest, Leverson
said at the end. ,
He went thoughtfully back to his desk
while Cavendish was putting them on again.
In his curt way he _ rapped out. a dozen
intimate —damned intimate —questions.
“Go away,” he said, “anywhere—it doesn t.
matter. Chuck Sydney and business tor a
spell. Especially Sydney. Cut your diet in
half and stay out in the open air—play
golf fish, or something that’ll keep you inter-
ested. And don’t look at a girl or a woman
for three months. That’s important.
“It is only nerves, then, Leverson.
“Yes. It’s a .sort, of nerves.”
When Cavendish had gone Leverson
mused at his desk. Breaking up after a
thirty-year orgy. Poor devil! But it might
be all right, if he took it seriously.
The pergola-thing in the garden was damn-
ably spidery-looking. Probably . swarming
with them. No agent had the right to let
a man a cottage with a thing like that
stuck on it. His own fault, he supposed, for
not seeing the place before he took it. But
the places were all the same.
And Leverson was another infuriating fool.
Calling himself a specialist and knocking
seven or eight thousand a year out •of - it,
and dumping a man down 1 , in. a hole like this
with nothing to do but think about spiders
and how to dodge them. Where was the
sense in taking a man’s good ' guineas for;
telling him not' to let anything, get, on his ;
nerves, and .then chucking him into a place
where the whole’ world and the sky were
on his nerves day and night? A place with
bits of greenstuff sticking- out of its walls
like crawling legs. . ;
The old hag in the yard of the court, too.’
She was at the bottom of This. Dotty, of
course—you could tell that by her dirty
mind and the sneaky way she had of talk-’
ing as if you weren’t there. 1 But she was-
a sly old beast who meant having her own
way in the end, and now here he was, where
she’d driven him. He’d been here a month,
rotting here, because of her
It was after one of these days that definite
panic seized him. It was dusk, and the
room was heavy and still in the twilight
silence on whose heels darkness was stealing
in from the bush. The corner in which
Cavendish sat in the chair, slumped down
with fatigue, was already dark. Suddenly
he lifted his head. Something, a shadow,
had passed the doorway. It was gone; and
his head slumped down again, brooding,
watching from the dark corner that was hid-
ing him The thought stormed into his
mind: like a spider lying in wait to pounce.
Like a spider!
The sharp terror seized him. This was
it the living truth. He was crouching,
watching here from the foul darkness. That
old hag—she was right. He was a spider.
A long moan, strangled with fear, escaped
his lips.
His man came running from the kitchen.
“Light the lights, Stevens,” he whispered,
crouching down in the chair. “The lamps,
the candles, all the lights. Oh, light them!”
The mirror in the bathroom, too. Very
hairy his legs and arms and chest were—
strong black hairs. Not bad for
The thought halted, while his finger tum-
bled at his livid trembling lips. That heav-
ing monstrous pulse was drumming through
the world again as he peered into the mirror.
Black hair tumbling over black eyes in a
dark unshaven face. Black hairy arms and
le The’great pulse surged up, suffocating him,
thundering against the sky.
And some days he scuttled back and forth
over the roads and the golf links, spinning
his web. And some days he sat in the grey
dreariness, waiting in watchful apathy, let-
ting the small flies of memory pass while he
waited, waited.
For what?
Despair came down on him. Through
sodden davs he sat in the chair in the corner,
watching and waiting, haunted by nameless
fears, a blade of obscure terror always over
his head. He was swift now to hear small
sounds, though the pulse was beating always
in his ears —swift to see small movements,
though his head crouched motionless, writing.
■ In the end it came.
As the doorway darkened, his glance flick-
ered up, ■ the pulse booming suddenly in
triumphant tumult. Dolores, her sombre eyes
watching him, staring hungrily at him!
But— ‘
■ The clamor faded away to nothing. The
world fell’silent and still. In the black she
always wore; her close black hat, her black
eyes glittering, her wing-sleeves curving
gently in-'the breeze like other arms, like
curving, softly, moving legs. - The female
- A sudden'sigh of bitter terror'in the still-
ness,' and ; all this vanished.* - Where Caven-
dish had been there was a nothing, huddled
low'in a chair. : _ ,
.Yet. it was her tragedy, really. She had
heard , that 1 he was here and ill, and had
come, tender and comforting as .of old, to
help, and, perhaps—who knows? —to bless.


Wonderful Books for Every Man & Woman Posted Right to Your Door
New Zealand readers send N.Z. Postal Notes only with orders.
(_r
1
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“MUSTARD POT”
Twice the size of “The Mustard Pot Annual” and a hundred
times better. Eighty pages of Pictures with ». Punch, dolly
.Jokes, Jovial Jests, Verse and Short Snappy Stories. I his
issue will make even a glass eye sparkle. Punch, Pep an "
Pictures and lots and lots of Art Photos of Lovely Girls.
Only 1/- at all Bookstalls, or send 1/2 in stamps and a copy
will be sent by return mail in plain cover and securely
wrapped. Don’t delay, send to-day.
“The Red Knight of Germany,”
By Floyd Gibbons.
The vivid story of each of those fights to the death that often
took place high up in the blue, a mile from the earth. Strange
contrast to this, from Richthofen’s letters to his mother he
has drawn a picture of the kindly side of the warrior’s nature.
His book is a breathless narrative of daring and heroism
(hat places its hero on a rank with the knights of chivalry.
It is an epic that starts with a simple combat in the sultry
days of 1916 and ends with the supreme moment when, riddled
with bullets, the German hero fell between flaming lines of
battle near Amiens. Price 6/-. Postage, 4d.
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment's happiness in bitter tears and years of regret ? Musi
'millions of homes be ruined—lovers and sweethearts driven apart—marriages totter to the brink of divorce—
the sacred joys of sex relations be denied? YES—just as long as men and women remain ignorant of the
simple facts of life. ,
An Unpardonable Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of sex fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear the veil of
shame and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on a new knowledge of all the facts of
sex as they are laid bare in plain, daring but wholesome words and frank pictures in this huge new library
of Sex Knowledge—“SAFE COUNSEL.”
ŵ
ẁ
SECRETS
100 ILLUSTRATIONS .
EVERYTHING A
MARRIED WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
fi?
How to preserve
youth—Warding off
other women—Keep-
ing yourself attractive
—Why husbands tire
of wives—Dreadful
diseases due to ignor-
ance Diseases of
women Diseases of
children Family
health guide
Change of life; hygiene—Why children die
young—lnherited traits and diseases-:
What will you tell your growing girl—
Hundreds of valuable remedies.
ẃ
Mistakes of early
marriages Secrets
of fascination —How
to make women love
y o u—Bringing up
healthy children —
Nursing and weaning
—Fevers and con-
tagi o u s diseases
—A ccide n t s and
emergencies
—Hygiene in the home —How to care for
invalids —Limitation of offspring. Warn-
ing to young men —Dangerous diseases
Hygienic precautions Anatomy and
physiology—The reproductive organs—
Education of the family.
Ir
\k
GIRLS, DON’T MARRY BEFORE YOU
Beauty diets and baths—Do you know:
How to attract desirable men? —How to
manage men? —How to know if he loves
y OU ? —How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty ?—How to beautify face, hands, hair,
testh and feet?—How to acquire charm?
—How to dress attractively ?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene?—How to pick a husband?
SEND £1 FOR A COPY OF “SAFE COUNSEL” TO-DAY.
Use this form, or if averse to cutting the paper, m ention The Bulletin when writing.
Enclosed please find £1 (one
pound), for which please send me
one copy “Safe Counsel” by return
mail.
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Rote.
Name
Address
88 FRENCH STORIES
88 Complete French Books, all Bound Together in One Mighty Big Book.
Now Published and Sold For the First Time.
THE WORKS OF GUY DE MAUPASSANT
(TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH SO ALL CAN READ).
JUST THINK OF IT! EIGHTY-EIGHT FRENCH STORIES.
ALL FOR THE PRICE OF ONE!
All of those paganly frank stories—BB complete titles —of French life and love, written by
Guy de Maupassant, have been collected in the covers of a big- book. Into each of these tales
this daring Frenchman, impelled by a fierce desire to tell the whole truth, has packed enough
emotional action to serve an ordinary writer for a lifetime. No other man has ever given us
so clear a picture of French love, hate and passion.
Eighty-eight complete stories, the best Maupassant ever wrote, have collected in this one
volume, bound in cloth and printed in large type on the finest paper. The translation is
complete, authentic and unabridged. Every story converted word for word into English for
only 15/-. The world has never before known such a bargain in entertainment. Here is a
Maupassant library within the covers of a single, beautiful volume.
You have never read these stories before! This Mighty Big Book, reduced from £1 to 15/-, will
be sent registered mail. Not sold at bookshops. Specially imported and sold only by
THE LONDON BOOK CO., LTD.
Sins of Society.
it is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil
of mystery that has so universally shrouded this
subject of the penalty of sexual immorality.
It is a plea for light on this hidden danger,
that fathers and mothers, young men and young
women, may know the terrible price that must
be paid, not only by the generation that violates
the law, but by the generations to come.
Price 2/6. We pay postage.
Practical Birth Control.
Best and Authentic, 2/-
Parisian Art Photographs.
Ten Exquisite Photographs of the Most Beauti-
ful Girls in the World. These pictures are
not of statues, but of the loveliest girls who
have ever posed for the camera in the nude.
They have never been sold before in Australia,
and are a hundred per cent, better than “The
La France Art Album.” We pay postage.
Price only 5/-
New Art Pictures.
16 exquisite Reproductions of Beautiful Un-
draped Photographs of the World’s Loveliest
Girls and Models. The pictures are 12in. x
10in., and are enclosed in a Handsome Port-
folio, which can be untied so that each picture
can be framed' for your 'private den. Nothing
so beautiful has ever been sold. You get the
whole 16 pictures with calendar for 1932 care-
fully packed in heavy cardboard so that they
will not be damaged in transit. Price, 5/-.
We pay postage.
Censored Limericks and Rhymes
The liirk of the year. Will make even a glass-
eye spark. Price, 2/-. We pay postage.
The Ginger Jar.
80 pages of Pictures and Commercial
Travellers’ Stories. A whirl of legs, lingerie,
and lace. A gay and giddy hot-'dog number.
Price 2/-. We pay postage. -
Keeping Fit,
By Bernar McFadden.
KEEPING FIT is a complete introduction to
flic study of proper living. It not only gives
frill instruction in exercise, eating, breathing,
etc., but also devotes numerous chapters to
commonsense treatment of such troubles as
asthma, constipation, heart disease, diabetes,
nerves, tuberculosis, and many others. Cloth
bound ; illustrated ; 226 pages; exercise chart.
Price, 10/-; postage, 6d. extra.
Married Love.
By Dr. Marie Stopes, will save you from life's
pitfalls and dangers. Tells everything every
man and woman should know before and after
marriage for true happiness. Genuine authentic
edition. Price, S/-. We pay postage.
“SALOME.”
The story of a fiendish impulse which prompted
the wicked mind of a courtesan to revenge
herself. Price, 3/6. We pay postage.
Furniture Making
Contains over 1000 illustrations, and tells how
to make 170 different pieces of furnitpre.
Evqry handy carpenter should have this mar-
vellous book. Price, 16/-. Includes postage.
Enduring Passion.
By Dr. Marie Stopes. A new contribution to
the solution of sex difficulties, being the con-
tinuation of “Married Love.” Ten amazing
chapters including: A Common Sadness, Rare
Contentment, Excessive “Virility,” Under-sexed
Husbands, The Frigid Wife, Aphrodisiacs?
Rejuvenation? No! Post Coital Happiness,
Frequency, The “Change” in Women, The
“Change” in Men, The Second Honeymoon: The
Human Duty. Enduring Passion also contains
useful prescriptions for married men and
women. Authentic unabridged edition. Not
cheap trashy one. Price, 10/6. Including
postage.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Glyn
Elinor Glyn, famous author of “Three Weeks/’ has written an amazing: book that
should he read by every man and woman—-married or single. “Elinor Glyn on
Eove” is not a novel—it is a penetrating searchlight fearlessly turned on the most
intimate relations of men and women.
LOVE’S VITAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
In “Eove,” Elinor Glyn courageously
solves the most vital problems of love
and marriage. She places a magnifying-
glass unflinchingly on the relations of
men and women. No detail, no matter
how avoided by others, is spared. She
warns you gravely, she suggests wisely,
she explains fully.
“Eove” is one of the frankest books ever
written. It had to be. A book of this
type, to be of real value, could not mince
words. Every problem had to be faced
with utter honesty, deep sincerity and
resolute cowage. But while Elinor Glyn
calls a spade a spade—while she deals
with strong emotions and passions in her
frank, fearless manner—she nevertheless
handles her subject so tenderly and
sacredly that the book can safely be read
by any man or woman.
In fact, anyone over eighteen should be
COMPELLED to read “Love”; for, while
ignorance may sometimes be bliss, it is
folly of the most dangerous sort to be
ignorant of the problems of love and
marriage. As one mother wrote hB: “I
wish I had read this book when I was a
young girl—it would have saved me a
lot of misery and suffering.”
GET “LOVE” TO-DAY.
Send a 3/6 Postal Note to the Eondon
Book Co., Ltd., Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney,
and you will not only receive a eopy of
“Love” by return mail, but a copy also
of Health and Beauty Secrets.
Please mention “The Bulletin” when
ordering.
THE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*J%ulUtCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2-52188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose &
NAME
ADDRESS '•
RATES: Australia — 12 months, 24/-J 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas — 12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
Mm
* oO&
0°
* ol>
J0 {
S 6 \ f
s e
* *
«&$»
*' i‘6^
wwsr
cAa l^#


((
HEENZO is easily
the best remedy I have
ever used for banishing
chest and throat ailments .
yy
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
F
REMEMBER! Money cannot
buy a better remedy than
COSTS 2/-, SAVES £’s
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people
to make the best family cough remedy, and at the same time save much
money. Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy
consists of two main sections:—
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients; and the
second is, of course, the necessary water and sweetening. The
preparation of the medicinal ingredients requires trained knowledge, but
the water and sweetening can be added in the home just as easily as in
the pharmacy. And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now, prove
these facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put; four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till dissolved, and when
the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle, and then add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your
chemist or store. By doing this you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would
cost up to £l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO is the fact that
it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and over 12,000 people
have written letters proclaiming it the best remedy they have ever used
for quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
WEENZOk
for quickly soothing sore throats, easing the chest and banishing
COUGHS, COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS & INFLUENZA
When your Doctor orders a Tonic — take, the best
HE AN’S TONIC NER VE NUTS
A few bottles at 3/- are a wonderful investment for those
seeking good health. All Chemists and Stor es.
