

'Evidence in
BLACKS WH
Ftauia* ]
ScorcuY^m
BtACK
AND
WHITE
HSaUCHAHAN^
GLASGOW
ft LONDON
m
m
mi
..
£>
NT ’
% 4
0f Appotni-rntti*
rs to HM, Vhe
**Oftuce OF scorutfo y
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BUCK A WHITE”
»*»«
SPECIAL BLEND OF •
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
1
' '
m \ '\ .J
SCOTCH WHISKY DlSTlLt£*s
.
/s* » • oNDON '
R<f t MUIStN.SS^ 1^
6 fluid
The first appreciative sip
tells you that here indeed
is "a special blend of
choice old Scotch Whisky”
-—and the case for Black
& While is complete.
Bottled under Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs
The Bulletin
7l\fL jCcICC llotlXQM. UVKs — SCLCJ& 8*
Vol. 53.—N0. 2732.
Wednesday, June 22, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TfHE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
Story Writing
IUI y at HOME
This Book FREE to YOUI
SEND THIS COUPON -
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence Gotten *■
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. 9 ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write ‘ for p ro r. t „
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' ■* a- ’
My Name
My Addres*
S.B. 232
ur
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“THE MUSTARD POT”
a I unek, Jolly Jokes, Jovial Jests, Verse and Short
Snappy . tones. This issue will make even a glass eye
Phot h r V a "'l and lots and lots of
Art Photos of Lovely Girls.
Only 1/- at all BooustaUs; or send 1/2 in stamps and
“SINS OF SOCIETY”
It IS a powerful plea for tearing away the veil of mystery
of sexual TmmoraHtv y Tt ,r ° mle(l , <hi ? SHbJett of tbe Polity
oi sexual immorality. It is a plea for light on this hi.iri,..,
danger, that fathers and mothers, young men and young
™ o iv e, L m th y kn ° W te i7 ible P rice that must be paid, not
only by the generation that violates the law, but bv the
generations to come. Price 2/6. We pay postage.
Ail Ordera Posted by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO., LTD.,
Permanent Postal Address:
__Box_3B, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
e
“THE AGE”
Established 18-54.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too Keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che H.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to —
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
‘freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane T elegraph ’ carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily N ewspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capita! City
of, the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:——
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
House, 30 Carrington Street, Svdnev
’Phone: 8W5179. J
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Buildine
Elizabeth Street. g ’
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2. where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper, and general information cdu
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street. Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Stranger Than Fiction
Ihousands are ashamed to own up to
interest, in detective stories. Not that th
are badly written—some are superior fror
a literary standpoint to the average
or society novel, and always have be
from the times of Poe, Wilkie Collin
Le Fanu and Conan Doyle to this day
but because they are supposed to be chil
ish, or anyhow schoolboyish, in their
probabilities. The modem reader, in searc
of something that reflects life, turns fro
writers such as Mrs. Belloc Lowndes
alleged realists like Michael Arlen. T
fact is the mystery novelists nearly alwa
base their stories on actual happening
while the others usually depict drea:
people moving in dream societies. It
emphasised anew with every new crim
book. Joseph Gollomb’s Crimes of a Yet
(Allen and Unwin; Robertson and Mu
lens, Melb.; 10s.) is the latest. It is uniqu
because the author has limited himself to
period. There is no reason why othe
shouldn’t have done the same instead of r
hashing the stale stories of bygone ma 1
factors. In any given year there are crim
which make fiction look commonplace. T 1
13 tragedies of 1929 dealt with here exem
plify between them nearly all the problem
which the world’s police have to face
murder cases, and the veiy fact that the
are written of in terse Americanese, wil
no attempts to analyse character or motive
makes them more startling.
The Complete Mystery
Isadore Fink was a Galician Jew wh
went to live in Harlem (N.Y.) three yea
ago. He hadn’t much money and wa
terrified of losing what he had. He livec
in a front room on the ground floor of
tenement-house. An old negress occupied a
adjoining room, but the door was securec
o.n Fink’s side by a massive iron bolt. Hi
one window was always locked and pre
tected by iron bars. The only othe
entrance was by the street door.
Over it was a narrow glass transom hardly larg
enough, were it open, to let a child through. Th
transom Fink secured firmly by nailing it all aroum
The street door itself had already two complicatec
locks when link moved in. He added such anothe
bolt on the inside as was on the door betwee
his room and that of the old colored woman.
One night, the light in his room was seen
to go out. A few minutes later the negres
heard three revolver shots and the fall o
a body. She went for a policeman, and he
finding the whole place barricaded, smashec
the glass of the transom and pushed i
small boy through. Fink was on the floo
dead with blood oozing from bulle
wounds in his head. The window hadn’
been opened for weeks (“dust was found
caked in the sash grooves”), and neithe
had the door leading to the old woman’
room—the bolt securing it “was rusted fas
m its place.” The wounds were in sucl
a position that they couldn’t have beer
self-inflicted, and there was no revolver ir
t.hg room. A squad of picked detectives
worked on the case for over a month, anc
then gave it up. It is a perfect example
of the “perfect crime.”
Wholesale Murder
The Hungarian midwife Susi Olah got
away, not with one, but with hundreds of
murders. She began as an abortionist
but it is hard to prove this offence in
Hungary, as it is here, and after nine
acquittals the police left her alone. Shortly
afterwards her activities on behalf of ex-
pectant mothers took a fresh turn; instead
of preventing babies from coming into the
world she began poisoning them after their
arrival. Four rival midwives were inter-
fering. with business, so she poisoned them.
Then she took a lover, and poisoned her
husband. A situation soon developed on
all fours with that in a well-known Greek
play; scores of women went on strike
against their menfolk. But, instead of
adopting the Aristophanic formula, they
employed Susi Olah. Success seems to
have made her careless. She supplied a
friend who wanted to remove her septua-
genarian mother with the usual preparation;
the murder was discovered, and the friend
was convicted and hanged. A Calvinist
pastor thereupon called on lone of his
flock and mentioned sternly that there
were rumors flying about with regard to two
deaths in her family. The lady offered him
a cup of tea, and he only escaped with
Ins life because a doctor friend happened
to be staying with him. Thirty-one women
were aiTested. Six,
including Susi,
committed suicide,
and the others
were sentenced to
death or long
terms of imprison-
ment.
But the home of mass-murder is not back-
ward Europe s o much as up-to-date
America. Chicago has no monopoly; there'
are plenty of rural A 1 Capones. In “A
County of Crime” Mr. Gollomb writes
about cultured little Herrin, “where the
high-school orchestra aspires to the sym-
phonies of Beethoven and Tschaikowsky,
and the W omen’s Club paid Madame
Schumann-Heinck 1500 dollars for a single
concert.” There are standing feuds in
this part of Illinois between churchgoers
and mdifferentists, “wets” and ”drys/
which, are fought out with rifles and
machine-guns. §ome strike-breakers arrivec
at a local mine in 1929.
Five thousand armed men gathered. Towards
tour in the morning there was an explosion. The
power-house and pumping-station had been blown
up and the mine was without light or water. Then
trom the ring of hills about the mine bullets began
replied* 1 **' GVCry machlr| e-guu in the camp
Ihe defenders were overpowered.
They were tied together by threes and sixes with
their legs left free, formed into line and marched
? , C U the bead of the column limped Superin-
tendent McDowell.
W hen they reached a given spot they were
ordered to run, and their conquerors opened
Are with the result that “22 mutilated
ponies were taken to local undertaker
parlors, and the hospitals were filled with
wounded.” A jury found that “the deaths
of the decedents were due to gunshot
wounds at the hands of persons unknown ”
A novelist who ended a story like that
with the statement that the forces of dis-
order had succeeded in cowing the authori-
ties would be laughed at by the critics, but
this matter-of-fact recital ends: “In the
Herrin primaries (1930) no one could be
found willing to run for the office of Mayor
of Herrin.”
Detection
The masterpiece of scientific deductive
work occurred, as might be expected, in
Vienna, where all the leading policemen
nave university degrees. A woman was
tound dead in a park. Her face had been
partly shot and partly burned away. From
the contours of the skull, etc., a sculptor
dermatologist, dentist, hairdresser and
others reconstructed a wax face. , Then
every dentist in Vienna was visited. One
was found whose record of dental work
tallied with that in the dead woman’.-
mouth, and he recognised the model as
frail Elsa Fellner. Her husband said she
had left him m Trieste. On the theory
that she had left to join someone-a search
was made of the Trieste telegraph l'ecprd:.
ihe only telegram signed “Elsa” to a man
in Vienna read “Coming,” and was
addiessed to Gustave • Bauer. Bauer said
he had never heard of Frau Fellner, but
a notebook was found with an item blacked
out. An expert in the police laboratory
dissolved all hut the original writing with
chemicals, and “Tiergarten” appeared—the
pai k m which the body had been found,
in gaol Bauer fraternised with a prisoner
who was due for release in a few days.
Ihe prisoner was shadowed and seen f o
post a letter. It was to one of Bauer’s
former mistresses, and contained an urgent
demand for an alibi for the date of th-
in urder.
England is the country in which an
accused person, and particularly one
accused of murder, gets the fairest trial ;
and it is also the country in which jus-
tice is meted out with the least of delay
Both idiosyncrasies are emphasised in “The
Mystery of Chung Yi Maio.” a wealthv
young Chinese who, for no apparent
reason, strangled his wife at Lake Der-
wentwater, and was hanged with business-
like promptitude at Manchester. This book
is interesting and significant just because
each of its cases is so national in import-
ant features Any v r ould afford material for
a lull-length novel; and no novelist who
used one as a plot without modifications
would be believed.
RED PAGE.
Hollywood as an Art Centre
i ■■■fi/'Swh 72'" in sayin s ( R - p
y ,1 that the best films are being pro -
duced m Hollywood because that stagger-
ing place thinks and talks films”—in other
words, has a tradition about films. Never-
theless, I am of the opinion that Australia
or any other cinematically-oppressed coun-
try, once it shakes off its present shackles,
is more likely to create a. film art than
Hollywood, because Hollywood ii cursed
{Red Page continued on. page 5.)


’RUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Conscience of Business. "‘THE SENIOR STORI
Anthony Horderns’
Combine Winter Comfort with Style & Economy
WARMTH WHILE
TRAVELLING
vr..
m
Pure Merino Wool
Travelling Rugs
50
Size: 60 x 80 inches.
Exceptionally good value is represented in
these Pure Merino Wool Travelling Rugs.
Heavyweight quality with fringed ends.
Many designs and color effects. Some have
self-backs, others have faint check designs
on back. Size, 80in. x 60in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 50/-
(Travelling Ruga—Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carriage.)
Thousands of men look to Anthony Horderns’ for their warm winter clothes, because of
the high quality of the fabric in every garment. It is this that provides the warmth so
necessary for protection from the cold. There is more. There is the dependable workman-
ship that assures durability in service. There is the skilled craftsmanship that enables the
smart style toi be retained throughout the long life of the garment. There is tha close
supervision that assures absolute consistency in all work. And there is the merchan-
dising policy of Anthony Horderns’ that provides the lowest prices, quality considered.
MEN’S OVERCOATS
Smartly Cut in
Raglan and Double-Breasted Styles
Navy D.B. Form - fitting Overcoats 45/-
Double-breasted, Form-fitting Overcoats are always popular with young
men. Well tailored from serviceable qualities of Navy Blue Coating.
These overcoats represent great value at the prices.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each 45/-, 59/6
Smart Raglan in English Tweed 59/6
Dressy Raglan style, well cut and expertly tailored from English and Aus-
tralian tweeds. In popular shades of Fawn, Brown, Grey, etc. A coat
that will keep you warm and cosy even on the coldest days winter can
produce. Anthony Horderns’ Price 59/6
105/- English Gabardine Raglans 75/-
A group of fine-looking Raglan style Overcoats. A man would look well
dressed in any one of them. Tailored from English Gabardines in Fawn
or Olive shades. Rayon linings. These coats will give seasons of service-
able wear. Prices 105/-, 95/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Prices 75/-, 69/6
“ Premier ” Guaranteed Oilcoats 25/-
Anthony Horderns Oilcoats are guaranteed to keep out water. Keep
dry in one of our “Premier” Oilcoats. Fitted with cape shoulders, storm
fronts, etc., 48in. to 58in. Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/-
Others are priced at 32/6, 39/6, 45/-, 49/6.
(Mat’s Overcoats —Ground Floor 3 George Street. We Pay Carriage.')
ss
m
Q.
i
m
m
ms
CPI
i&w&X
m
fSi
m
vtf&
g&
'-j.
m
I IS'
WINTER VALUES
42/6 Winter Tweed Dressing-gowns
Warm
Winterweight
32/6
Range of
Marl Shades
Men’s Dressing-gowns in warm winterweight all tweed. In
a range of Marl shades with overcheck effects. Best finish, with
girdle and tassel to match. All sizes are available. Price . . 42/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price 32/6
8/6 Flannelette Pyjamas now 6/6
Men’s Flannelette Pyjamas in warm winterweight. Dressy Block
stripe designs. Made in full and generous proportions. Sizes,
S. Men’s, Medium and Outsize. Prices 8/6 11/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Prices 6/6 8/6
7/6 All - Wool Underwear 5/6
Men’s All-wool Underwear. Natural shade. Lightweight. Best
finish, with flat-lock seams. Soft and warm. Undershirts have
short sleeves. Underpants are to ankle. Sizes, 34in. to 44in.
chest or waist. Price, garment 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, garment 5/6
{Mercery—Ground Floor. 'George, Street. We Fay Carriage.)
HAT
Renovation
SERVICE
Did you know t, li a t
Antliony Horderns’ main-
tain a one-day Men's Hat
Renovating Service? Bring
vour old hat in and we
will clean, block and
renew it with a silk band
and head leather. Price.
cut edge brims 3/6
Bound edge brims .. 6/6
Providing you leave your
Hat with us before 10 a.m.
same may be called for
after 5 p.m.
The Thrifty Man's Choice
Anthony Hordern s’ Special
“HORDURA” HATS
All
Sizes
17/6
Smartest
Shades
“Hordura” Felt Hats for men are renowned far and wide. Featured
in high quality Pure Fur Felt....they are the choice of discriminat-
ing men everywhere. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’, and
the shades for selection are Zinc. Steel, Dark Fawn. Slate Grey:
also Light Grey with Navy Blue silk band. In popular snap brim
shape. Best trimmings and available in all sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each n/G
(Men’s Mots — Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
SHOE VALUES
Typical of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
è
J5ii
é
226
m
yit
ë
J7ii
“Hordura”
Shoes
These smart “Hoi-dura” shoes
typify the utmost value in
serviceable shoes for men.
Featured in Tan Calf, Box
Calf and Havana Broun Calf.
Genuine welted soles! Neatly
stitched and corded caps and
vamps. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 19/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, pair 15/11
In 15 Styl es
“Tree” Brand Shoes are the
choice of fastidious men.
There are 15 styles to select
from in Box Calf, Glace Kid,
Tan and Brown Calf. Genuine
welted soles and in a range
of full and half sizes. Ser-
viceable wear guaranteed in
every pair. Anthony Horderns’
Price, pair 32/6
Brogue Style
This smart Brogue shoe for
men is ideal for either walk
ing or gelling. Fitted with
an extra stout welted sole
and made in high quality
Tan Willow Calf. Stocked in
a range of full and half
sizes. Moderately priced....
quality considered! Anthony
Horderns’ Price, pair, 33/6
Box Calf Boots
Men’s “Tree” Brand Box Calf
Boots. Genuine welted soles.
Full and half sizes stocked.
A keen value not to be missed
by thrifty men. Price .. 19/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, pair 17/11
(Men’s Shoes—Ground Floor,
George Street, li’e Pay Carriage.)
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 27 I2C, G.P.O


The Romance and Growth
of ADVANX in Australia!
An Industry that Leads the World!
VERYBODY interested in stories of pion-
eering in Australia, both in industry and
on the land, will find an absorbing story
in the history of the growth of Advanx
—the pioneers of the retreading indus-
try.
Nearly 1 2 years ago, when motoring was rapidly
becoming popular, the question of tyre expense
became a factor of consideration. It must be remem-
bered that in those days the roads were for the most
part either cobbled or paved, and the uneven and
rugged surface was particularly conducive to rapid
tyre wear.
About this time Russell Taylor opened a small
service station in William Street. Retreading was then
becoming recognised as practicable, and a few plants
had been installed in Sydney by the more enterprising
garage proprietors. Taylor, seeing possibilites for the
future, installed a plant and set out to make a
specialty of this business.
ADVANX MANUFACTURES FIRST MOULD
Hard work and aggressive planning brought its
reward, and gradually the business grew and ex-
panded. Harry William Taylor—Russell Taylor’s
brother was then practising as an engineer in Canada,
and on receipt of a cable from his brother, hastened
out to Australia to join him in drawing up an ambitious
plan of manufacturing and marketing all classes of
vulcanising machinery for retreading.
This was the initial step in the greater develop-
ment of the company know as “Advanx” to-day.
McLachlan Avenue, Rushcutter Bay, was the
site chosen for manufacturing operations, and here
in a few old disused sheds the first Advanx mould was
manufactured.
Meanwhile the motoring public were warming
up to the idea of retreading, and the retreading side
of the organisation needed room for expansion to
cope with the increasing volume of business.
Additional premises were secured in McLachlan
Avenue, and a new plant (wholly manufactured by
Advanx this time) installed.
THE RUBBER POSITION
In a short time the new retreading plant was
operating to its limit, and consuming large quantities
of rubber. The rubber was purchased from the
new tyre companies, and difficulty was encountered
in arranging for regular supplies, also in maintaining
a standard of quality. The more the business grew
the more acute became the problem. The company
decided to manufacture its own rubber, and after
careful research the latest and most up-to-date com-
pounding machinery was purchased and installed. To
house this new factory additional premises were added
in McLachlan Avenue.
THE MARKETING QUESTION.
This problem over, the company settled down to
the marketing side of the business, and step by step
gained representation in the key town and cities,
spreading in time to Interstate and finally to world-
wide markets.
wm ,
/*' *• - ' ':
Buffing the Tyres prior to applying: the
Camelpack.
At the present time Advanx operates in Aus-
tralia (all States), New Zealand, South Africa,
Canada, England and the U.S.A.
Directly or indirectly, over 2000 Australians
alone have found employment through the agency
of the Advanx organisation, and to-day the word
“Advanx’’ is a byword familiar to every motorist
throughout the length and breadth of the land.
Looking back over the 12 years of progress,
much has been accomplished, and it is gratifying to
note that, despite the world-wide economic crisis,
record expansion has been maintained.
ADVANX TO-DAY —THE MACHINERY DIVISION.
The Advanx organisation, like Gaul, is divided
into three parts. This has been illustrated in the
story of the early operations of the company.
First we have the machinery division, where
intricate tread patterns are designed and cut from
wood in the pattern shop, passed on to the foundry
for casting in aluminium, the casts then proceeding
to the machine shop, where they are finished off and
engraved ready for insertion in the vulcanising moulds.
The moulds are turned, fitted and assembled in
the machine shop, the organisation of which allows for
a progressive conveyor system from one operation to
another.
Looking down the price-list of any well-known
tyre manufacturer, one will be immediately struck with
the multitude of sizes in use to-day. In addition,
every change in pattern of a standard make of tyre
means the cutting of a new design for the matrix.
As can be imagined, this labyrinth of sizes and
patterns requires extreme care in organisation so that
m
i
t JHaSA
The Tread Rubber is applied here. Note the
neatness of the place, an opening in the centre
of the table containing a receptacle for scrap.
mistakes are reduced to a minimum. In addition to
the standard tread patterns in current use by the
new tyre manufacturers, Advanx has adopted an
exclusive tread pattern of its own, and this is known
as the “Roadmaster.” The “Roadmaster” design
embodies the best features and improvements in the
constructional units of new tyres, and is subjected
to the most exacting tests before being adopted.
Wherever Advanx operates its own plant the Road-
master” tread is to be found—and the success of this
policy is reflected by the fact that over 300,000 tyres
were retreaded in the Sydney “Roadmaster” plant
during 1931.
THE RUBBER DIVISION.
Passing on from the machinery division, we come
to the rubber division, where the raw rubber from
Malay is compounded into tread rubber and repair
materials for vulcanising.
Advanx chemists constantly experiment and test
new formulas from abroad, thus keeping abreast of
all new developments, and recently tempered rubber
—the latest improvement in rubber—was released
and adopted as a standard Advanx product.
Advanx uses in its rubber division the entire
production of a rubber plantation in Malay. The
crude rubber arrives in sheets, and the actual process
of compounding commences with the weighing out
of the chemicals to be added in proportion to the
amount of crude rubber to be processed. Carbon
Black is used extensively in rubber compounding, and
a specially-constructed Carbon Black room is neces-
sary in order that the infinitesimal particles of Carbon
Black will not percolate through and become an
annoyance.
This Battery of High-speed Moulds is thfe largest
in the world and has a capacity of over 500
Tyres per day.
After the chemicals to be addled have been cor-
rectly proportioned, the rubber is fed between huge
rollers and mixed and remixed until all the ingredients
have been thoroughly masticated. It then passes on
to another mill, which rolls the rubber into long
strips of correct width and thickness, at the same
time backing it up with linen ready for packing
and delivery.
The rubber division does not rely on orders for
home consumption alone, but exports to practically
every country in the world. This overcomes the
seasonal variations and allows for a fairly constant
production the whole year round.
In addition to tread rubber, Advanx also manufac-
tures all classes of repair materials for use in the
vulcanising plant.
THE RETREADING PLANT
Now let us pass on to the actual retreading side
of the business.
The retreading factory is housed in a modern,
well-lighted building in McLachlan Avenue, Rush-
cutter Bay.
All tyres received by Advanx for retreading are
first subjected to a rigorous inspection, and only
those that pass are allowed into the retreading factory.
The tyres are first stripped of the old tread,
and any minor repairs attended to, buffed, and
breaker-strip inserted. A coating of solution is then
applied. Advanx “tempered rubber” is then placed
round the solutioned tyre, and it is ready for vul-
cansing. The vulcanising section of the factory con-
tains a battery of Advanx moulds capable of a daily
production of over 500 retreads a day.
An overhead conveyor system carries the tyres
forward from one operation to another, and scien-
tific control eliminates loss of time and energy in
every individual operation.
After vulcanising, the tyres are inspected and
painted ready for distribution.
DISTRIBUTION.
The marketing end of the business is catered
for by a regular daily pick-up and delivery system
(instituted by Mr. H. J. Baker, general manager of
the company), operated by motor cyclists, who call
on all garages in the metropolitan area.
Advanx also has a large retail showroom in
William Street, and branches and depots in North
Sydney, Mascot and Granville in metropolitan area,
and Albury. Newcastle, Nowra, Wollongong, West
Maitland and Wagga in the country area.
The other States are represented by either
branches or distributors, and there are branches in
New Zealand, Canada, South Africa and England.
This is the story of Advanx, and a story of
enterprise which has won for the organisation a
reputation of being “An Australian Industry That
Leads the World.”
All these facilities are brought to bear in making
the prices low, commensurate with the high standard
of quality set by Advanx,
If the Question is TYRES—the Answer is ADVANX
Jlgents Everywhere


smmm
. : ;
■Hi
WSHSM
. • ~.
mm :;
mm gsgig
*y.;i
WSmmm
■n
p*t
■ >v
i 1
;• v
wM
: HI
i-‘r»
■ ' m
&
shs
Made from the
whole, rich, sun-
ripened wheat
gram.
They are a per-
fect health food,
extremely easy
to digest. When
eaten for break-
fast they give
you a light, ener-
getic feeling in
the busy morn-
ing hours.
Manufactured
by
William
Arnott
Limited,
The Biscuit
Specialists
of sixty-four
years’
experience.
JH!
IM
FAMOUS
DUD
D
BISCUITS
Made in
Australia,
Financed by
Australians,
and produced
by highly
trained
Australian
workers.
EVERY GROCER KEEPS THEM
by the blight of internationalism. All great
art is international in the sense that we
can all understand Rembrandt’s “Bethsheba,
Beethoven’s Choral Symphony and Gogol s
“Dead Souls.” But the art of Hollywood
is international in another sense. In com-
posing his opuses the Hollywood producer
lias to consider the prejudices and conven-
tions of an entire planet. He must re-
member that Japan doesn’t like kisses 100
feet long, that Spain, shrinks from divorcees
who marry again, that Singapore won’t
have black men running away with the
wives of white men, and that Prof. Osborne,
the Vic. censor, thinks sex pathology
should be confined to medical journals,
despite the evidence of Shakspeare to the
contrary. The Hollywood producer may
never have heard of Prof. Osborne; never-
theless, the silent pressure of all these
diverse prejudices makes itself felt in the
balance-sheets of the Hollywood film mag-
nates, and that pressure is duly transferred
to the producer. The poor devil has got
as much chance of getting his own per-
sonal vision of life on to the screen as a
poet has oY getting an erotic ballad into
a church magazine. And nothing but the
personal vision of life ever produced an
art of any significance.
If the sculptures of Pheidias had been
designed to be copied in a vast mass-
production factory for export to Baby-
lonia, Egypt, Persia and India, lie would
not have produced the Parthenon friezes.
He would have produced a mongrel thing,
a sort of dull average struck between the
various prejudices of all the publics he
would have had to flatter. When I see a
Hollywood film lam always conscious of this
mongrelism. Stray from reality and you
beget monsters. All the accepted screen
types are monstrous. Take any of them—
the ideal screen mother, for instance. She
is the adoring type, sexually starved, who
lavishes her unsatisfied emotions on her
children, inevitably to their detriment. It
fills me with horroY when I realise that
this ideal of my fellow-Australians (includ-
ing Prof. Osborne) is also the ideal of
Tamils, Dyaks, negroes, Frenchmen, China-
men and South Sea Islanders. If only Mr.
Latham were as frightened of the art Com-
munism of Hollywood as he seems to be of
the political Communism of Russia!
M. G. SKIPPER.
A Fool Who Did Well for Herself
It is fitting that the only biography of
Napoleon’s second wife which has been
written in English—or, so far as this critic
knows, in any language—should be by ah
American. Marie-Louise had many of the
characteristics of a fashionable American
wife as revealed in U.S.A. novels and
talkies. When she married the Emperor
he was the equivalent of a successful pro-
fiteer. He had robbed everybody, her own
father included, and was the most power-
ful and, perhaps, the richest man in the
world. She had been brought up to hate
him, but soon after they were married and
she had come to realise what it meant in
luxury and glory to be the w’ife of such a
personage, she wrote to Austria :
I cannot thank God enough for giving me such
great happiness, and you, dearest Papa, for not
yielding to my pleadings from Buda. You will
understand this when you come to know the
Emperor personally. Then you will see how good
and lovable he is in private life, and what a noble-
hearted man he is. I am persuaded that you would
love him, too.
He was still a success and her devotion
was still aflame in the spring of 1812. The
letters he got in Russia “generally ended
with the words: ‘Send me news of you
very often, my dear one. I love you very
tenderly. Do not forget her who calls
herself till death, Your tender and affec-
tionate wife and friend, Louise.’ ” With
the retreat from Moscow he entered on a
phase which has been faced by many
emperors of commerce in the last 18
months. By the spring of 1814 he was
ruined, and she was back in Austria with
her family. He wrote imploring her to
come to Elba as naively as any business
magnate might write from Sing-Sing im-
ploring his scandalised wife to visit him
there. She used to show her refusals to
her edified father before sending them.
The escape from Elba filled her with
horror.
Terrifying dreams disturbed her sleep in which
she saw Napoleon triumphantly entering Vienna and
carrying her away with him. The Battle of
Waterloo and its issue did not comfort her entirely."
. . . . She was not reassured until after the middle
of July. Then she wrote: “Dearest Father, I have
heard of the happy issue of the war.”.... She was
free! Her nightmare was at an end.
She had another cause for relief. She
had, as the phrase goes, taken a gigolo.
She had several children by Count Neip-
perg—a bored rake who already possessed
a family by an adulterous union with
another lady—before the death of Napo-
leon enabled her to make an honest man
of him. When he died and she was 42
the young and handsome Count Bombelles
crossed her path:—
She asked him to become her third husband, lie
was too gallant a man to repulse a lady’s advances,
and the marriage was secretly solemnised on the
17th of February, 1834.
Gallantly, needless to say, had nothing to
do with it. He was poor and she was rich;
so, in spite of her years and the fact that
she had grown fat by overeating and lack
of exercise, she was able to buy him as
young men of a similar type are being
bought all over the world to-day. M. E.
Ravage calls his biography, which is pub-
lished by Heinemann at 12s. 6d., Empress
Innocence. He makes a heroine of Marie-
Louise, but the truth is she was a cold-
blooded, trivial and unimaginative sen-
sualist. Napoleon’s dying request was:
“Take my heart, place it in spirits of wine
and deliver it to my dear Louise at Parma.
Her reaction was that of a suburban
society-leader who, having lived down a
past, suddenly finds herself in danger oi
seeing old scandals revived. She was afraid
people would talk if the heart arrived in
Parma; that misguided or ill-disposed per-
sons would even make pilgrimages to it.
The appearance of the heart, she felt,
would be “exceedingly unpleasant” for her;
and she wrote: “I rely, dearest Papa, upon
your gracious co-operation to put a stop
to this affair.” What a woman to have
captured the affection of one of the
greatest men who ever walked the earth!
H. S.
Plays or Sermons?
From T. Inglis Moore (author of ‘‘No
Robbery”):—
F. D. Davison’s dramatic creed as set out in
“Art and Morals” (R.P. 25/5/’32> is that “artists
cannot successfully ignore morality.” The author of
a play “must pass judgment” on his characters, and
“the apparently guilty must be proved innocent, or,
if guilty, marked with the stigma of their offence” ;
i.e., every playwright must be a preacher and every
play a sermon.
Just as one is about to exclaim at this quaint
theory of art, which, if followed, would cause drama
to degenerate into didacticism, F.D.D. hastily
explains that he is not giving a theory of art at. all
but only a rule for the successful playwright, “a
note ori mass psychology.” “The world and his wife
....still pay respect to moral issues.” Therefore
it is the author’s job to follow the herd—“unless
he wishes to provide entertainment for a small u,nd
select audience of moral imbeciles.” The assumption
that any select audience which differed from the purely
conventional standards of morals must necessarily
consist of “moral imbeciles” is a fallacy which needs
no reply. The trite “note on mass psychology” is
simply not true. Many eminent dramatists—Shaw,
Synge, O’Neill and Pirandello —have differed con-
siderably from “tlie world and his wife” in moral
matters. They were abused by the Comstocks who
wanted only “wholesome” plays, but this did. not
prevent their success.
Our box-office moralist then quotes Shakspeare as
a classic example of his text. This looks suspici-
ously like a sudden illogical switch from “mass
psychology’’ to true esthetics, and a little later we
find another ambiguous transition to ethics. The
citing of Shakspeare is unfortunate, for he is an
excellent example of the objective dramatist. lie
does not preach sermons, but kills off Ophelia and
Claudius, Cordelia and Goneril with the impartiality
of the true artist who strives to reach “the purpose
of playing... .to hold the mirror up to nature.”
Now, it is precisely this objective non-moral
purpose; which is sought after by the two plays
F.D.D. condemns. In “Hypocrites,” hypocrisy is
satirised. “No Robbery”.—praised by Tub Bulletin
as “the brightest effort of the evening”—is essenti-
ally a light comedy where any preaching, explicit
or implicit, would be hopelessly inartistic. The
opinions expressed ai'e entirely those of the char-
acters. They no more represent the author’s than
those of Falstaff or lago represent Shakspeare’s. Yet
this is what F.D.D. indefensibly assumes. As the
author, I am responsible only for the central idea
brought out by the action and ending, the “moral”
that the happiness of a marriage or alliance depends
more on community of tastes than on physical attrac-
tion. If this can be made to show, as F.D.D.
sweepingly asserts, that I have “lost my moral
sense,” I can cheerfully survive such a loss.
F.D.D. finally resorts to mud-tlirowing. This may
be good “morals” ; it is hardly good manners—or
any sort of dramatic criticism.
And Mr. Davison concludes the debate: —
The best answer to the above would be to reprint
my original article so that the reader would know
exactly what I did say. Mr. Moore perverts my
meanings, and, where he quotes me, makes deduc-
tions which arc unwarranted. If his perceptions were
keener than they appear to be he would realise that
moral values are things which an artist, especially a
literary artist, has to deal with continually. In
“No Robbery” we find a bawdy-house incident depicted
in the atmosphere of the drawing-room, with no other
intention than to raise a snigger. One line from it
fairly expresses its moral tone: “I don’t mind
adultery, hut I do hate a liar.” Mr. Moore says
the “central idea” was to show that “the happiness of.
a marriage or alliance [he is apparently not particular
which! depends more on community of tastes than
on physical attraction.” His word, of course, must
he accepted; but it is a pity that in his play he
was not successful in bringing the point outi clearly.
A pity also that such a philosophic commonplace
could not have been expounded except through the
medium of a situation that was repugnant. Even
so, I think his statement shows that he subconsciously
subscribes to my suggestion that an artist in dealing
with immorality is under an obligation to justify
himself.
And a Little Verse
EPITAPH FOR AN ILLUSION.
Ah ! shadow, dragon-slain !
Young dawn grown dumb!
Though Youth’s self came again,
Scarce would you come.
Clear courtyards of the moon !
High keep of stars !
Hazed are your walls, cross-hewn
Your sevenfold bars!
Ah : fated lips and eyes,
So blind and blue!
No love dreams Heaven twice,
Though God come true.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
PANTOMIME.
Oh, Youth and Love will always creep away.
So silently, at such unheeded time,
To leave their sometime dwelling in its prime,
With lighted windows and with music gay ;
That afterwards no watcher there will say
If any one or both of them have flown,
Until the aimless twining weeds are grown,
And ruined walls their treachery betray.
Thus I have seen men's bodies that are fair,
When Youth has lightly left them to decay,
And when the traitor Love will no more stav,
And only foolish pantomime is there;
And I have wept to see them hide their
shame
AN ith wretched wealth or bitter, fruitless
fame.
VICTORIA.
CHABLES C. MCNAMARA.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Xante
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
II. I a : Thanks ; much obliged.... A.C.J.:
Yes, quite worth encouraging. Hut he must read
and study. Pouring out words is the least part of
writing... .L..J.T.: Doggerel—and not full-grown at
that.... John If.: Oh so dull!... .Laura W.: Makes
hard labor of it. Only practice can cure that....
T.G.: Lightweights that show a good ear for music.
. ...M.M.C.: Simplicity is strength. Aim at that.
....Barbara H.: Not yet. Nor is it possible to say
from these rhyming exercises whether you ever will.
....Sonia If.: “Love and Youth’’ came nearest.
Don’t mistake crudity for directness... .J.M.W.:
Heavy going. .. .Tagani: There’s a yarn there; but
you’ve choked it with silly little streamers tacked
on for ornament. .. . J.P.O.C.: Words, words, words.
....K.M.P.: Would prefer something Australian.'...
R.L.R.: Same to you... .D.M.R.S.: Essay on beetle-
crushers off our beat.... J.E.S.: It’s not a story....
C M.: You take too long to introduce your characters.
... .R.B.O.C.: t.'ut the wordy preamble by half....
W.L.: Still in the dark as to whether lie murdered
the pawnbroker or not.... K.M.D.: The lady's com-
posure is overdone... .E.S.J.: A 5000-word disserta-
tion on derrink.... Anna: Try to make “Kookaburra”
all as good as the last verse... .C.G.D.: You must
bring some proof before such a thing as that can
be published.... Rycul: Three hundred words is the
limit... .Sandford R.: Don’t know whether you’re
a Scot or an Australian. Some “migrants’’ are good
Australians after a few months in Australia; some
are still foreigners when they present their white
beards to St. Peter... .F.C.B.: Among the pretty-
goods. But we do wish people wouldn’t entirely
banish smiles from their sadness... .C.E.S., Warren
B„ Milred B., N.B.A., IT.O.K.: Passed out
only on the third reading; which almost always
means that the supply has badly beaten the demand.
.... Valve L.: A good story; sorry this market is
overstocked with yarns of that length. Demand at
present is for something shorter... .I’ippa: Good in
a mechanical way. .. .I.O.S.: The movement is too
slow.... Geol: But please don't, ask us to believe
that the people who write the evening papers are
typical Australians. How could they be with the
American pattern always in front of them?....
F.S.R.: Thanks. We’ll get in touch with the
gentleman... .Bell eri ve : Football this week, eh?: —
When the weather is safe
From a threatening squall,
Recreation to me
Is stirring Football.
From a good position
Among the crowd,
While barrackers hiss
And hooteth loud,
I watch the game to
My heart’s content,
And bet a shilling
Like a sporting gent.
. . . .One I'v ’Em: Turgid. . . .Drift: Too much mean-
dering. .. .El Dorado: Something .in it, but it needs
more skilful treatment... .Waikikamoukau: Not in
our line... .C.M.: Fair verse, but Lawson has done
it better... . R.W.A.: The swing would have carried
it in had times been better... .T.H.: Overburdened
with banalities and truisms. .. .Rod McL.: An Omar
parody needs to be very good. Yours is but
middling. .. .D.P.: All the old bush gags-—“gnarled
eucalypts,’’ “furry ’possums,” “carolling magpies”—
how they tire us!. .. . A.G.: “The Girl For Me” is
not for US....W.T.: Otherwise. .. .K.K. : Unchival-•
rous... .G.E.: The answer is in the negative....
R.W.T.: Expressions like “the uuctious benison of
liair” leave us bewildered... .J.S.: “The Old Pros-
pector” reverently interred...R.F.S.: Worth nothing
to us—or you... .W.M.8.L.: A trifle grandiose, but
you might place it elsewhere... .Brown Chip: Doesn't
score even an outer... .11.11.: No, it isn’t poetry
or anything remotely resembling it... .R. 8.5.:
Childish. .. .A. N. Le G.: Not a hope... .W. 8.: A
recitation, eh? Well, try it oil the dog... .G.C.8.:
The best we can say about it is that Shakspeare
spelt as badly and his grammar was sometimes as
unusual... .Ii.R.A.: Abduction story reads like a
sentimental hobbledehoy’s dream... .J.C.T.: Pity he
wasn’t silent as well as strong... .J.R.G.: Murderers
who carry round snakes to perform the dirty work have
had their day in fiction... .A.C.H.: Saw the finish as
soon as lie opened his mouth.... M.G.: Obviously
you have never been to Papua. .. .A.M.: Sham-
sickness ruse has been used over and over again.
. ...1..E.: Gaol yarn doesn’t ring true. . . .R.S.:
Confused. .. .A.R.: Deals with an old problem in an
old way... .M.M.C.: Found Harold tiresome....
A.S.: Tuneful, but we can’t make much of thorn.
What are “appled arrases,” for instance?. .. .A.J.A.:
Well, no, we can’t discern any improvement....
A.C.: Unsuitable... .T.J.: No assurance needed that
the Phar Lap effusion is your original composition.
A man who would lift that would loot a rubbish
tip G.J.: Undistinguished verse.... S.W.: You
make hard going of those flower rhymes. ... J.S. R.:
Nothing in them"... .8.M.T.: Some promise; try a
less hackneyed theme... .F.J.8.: Poor sonnet and
poorer blank verse.... J.J.F.: Still too tame. .. . J.G.:
On the anaemic si)de.... T.A.: Might have scored
with a more orderly metrical setting... ..T.C.:
Pleasant trifles, but that isn't enough. ... 5.8. N.:
Not worth a, Lang 10U....J.C. (Bondi): It would
be waste of time... .W. 0.: Worry is too poor a
rhyme for Macquarie to stand alj that repetition.
. . G.E.:—
“Why I ever took to writing
Is a thing I’ll never know.”
No more will we....G.P.: Reads like a. bad echo of
Browning... .L.0.M.8.: Your Muse dashes hither
and thither too wildly... .E.E.W.: Rhymes to old
hats and favorite pipes demand more 5ki11....
Geoloin: Not ill done, but did you ever know a
“banker bloke” who expressed himself in that
artless fashion ?... .A. P.W.: Glowing invocations
to summer dawns are out of season... .E.A.B. :
You have no gift for poetry... . A.W.L.A.;
Your Pegasus galloped clean away from us. ...
D.D.: It rhymes indifferently.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.H.: Caricature doesn’t resemble the man and
joke blocks arc patchy..F.B.: Plenty worse than
you; and plenty better... .T.H.: So that old false-
teeth joke is still going the rounds \.W.: Two
untidy ones. . . .R.W.: Not much like the subject.
. ...F.H.: Had him recently... .C.T.: We don't
see our “way clear to use them”... .G.C.F.: Can’t
tell whether the figure is supposed to represent a
cow, dingo or donkey.... W.K.S.: Among the duds.
. ...J.T.: Heavy stuff and disorderly... .D.W.: The
election’s over; now you send in your pre-election
brainwaves. .. .P.G.: Sure to remain an outsider while
you continue in that strain. .. .B.B.: Improving
slowly.


ē
ĕ
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2732.
June 22, 1932.
THE BAND STRIKES UP.
“The N.S.W. Premier (Mr. Stevens), addressing a conference in the King’s Hall, said the accumulated deficit on June 30 would be £32,000,000. Ihe Family
Endowment account had been overdrawn £2,000,000. The commitments left unpaid when the Ministry assumed office amount to £4,600,000. ‘We cannot reduce to zero
point in one year,’ he said, ‘but we hope to halve the estimated deficiency in the next financial year.’ ”
THE CONDUCTOR: “You won’t win any prizes with ’em, lads-, but come on, let’s patch ’em up and get to work.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lL',-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 j.s. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 lbs.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for Goz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2os.
WOMEN IN PUBLIC LIFE.
No woman, with the single exception per-
haps of Miss Holman, of Westralia, has
yet reached an assured place in any Aus-
tralian Parliament. Almost every State
Assembly has given a grudging welcome to
the sex; and at the most recent elections its
candidates have suffered decisive defeats. In
N. S. Wales they polled at the best only a
few hundred votes; in Queensland the only
woman in the last Parliament was excluded
from the new one; and Victoria continues
to be without a woman in either Chamber,
let there was no question about the high
quality of the women candidates in N. S.
V ales. Half a dozen of them know more
about politics than nine-tenths of the men
candidates; they have studied social prob-
lems far more intensively; they are keener
intellectually; they are better speakers.
And not one of them could score better
than the male “independent” whose candi-
dature is accepted as the joke of the village.
The explanation has been offered that our
condition is too critical for experiments,
wherefore the women turned instinctively to
the men for protection. The present crisis
past, we are told that women will call to
women once more. But, assuming that
women did fall back on men because the
position was critical, ought they to have
done so? After all, what was the job to
be done? Not one calling for physical
prowess or any of those qualities which
justify the female in turning to the male
for protection; and so the instinct which
led woman to turn to man in this crisis
was probably all wrong. Woman does not
instinctively turn to man when the sick
have to be tended, or the children fed at
the least possible expense. If she turns
instinctively to man in circumstances in
which she could do a great deal better
herself, it is because man for his own
benefit has bluffed her into that frame of
mind.
It is not necessary to inquire whether
woman at her best is as good as man at
his best in medicine, surgery, art, poetry,
oratory and many other things. Perhaps
she is not. But our system of govern-
ment does not pick out these super-men
to make and administer our laws. Who
believes for a moment that the clatter
and scramble through which three States
have just passed is calculated to bring
the best men to the front? Who believes
that all the men most competent to deal
with great problems would either face
such a racket or win votes if they did
face it? It is not super-men for whom
women stand aside; on the contrary, the
qualities that now succeed at the polls
are in most cases those which big well-
managed enterprises would rank very low
in choosing executive officers. While
practically excluding women, the present
system tends, then, to exclude also a
very large proportion of the men most
competent to handle the nation’s affairs;
so we need not have the smallest com-
punction about considering any scheme
for the complete revolution of the present
system of election. When we consider
the appalling mess which male Parliaments
have made of the nation’s affairs, and
their wretchedly poor performance in
cleaning it up, we need have no %com-
punction either about making radical
alterations in . the personnel of the Legis-
latures themselves.
How would women’s presence have
affected the Parliaments of Australia during
the past, say, 20 years? It may not be
fair to argue generally from the evidence
of the half-dozen or so women who have
actually been in Parliament during that
period: Frankly they have not done any
great service to their country. They have
been more concerned, it seemed, to do
service to their sex; and that is quite
understandable while their numbers were
so few. But how can men be expected
to vote for women if the latter are sex
representatives first and national repre-
sentatives afterwards, if at all? This
seems to be the point on which women
leaders ought to make up their minds.
Are they going to put themselves forward
« seeking the good of women and
children, or as citizens without regard to
sex? If as the former, then it is doubtful
whether they will go very far. They will
not command the support of many men;
on the other hand, they will fail to secure
the support of that large proportion of
women who as electors will insist upon
putting nation first and sex second. If
they are going to appeal as citizens with-
out regard to sex, then, while a much
greater future is possible, far more
pioneering and educative work will have
to be done. Apart from making large
changes in electioneering and perhaps
Parliamentary methods, we shall have to
break down great prejudices and show that
women possess qualities' of which the
nation’s Parliament and administration
stand in need.
The truest thing said in the recent
-S.W. campaign was interjected when
a U.A.P. speaker was talking about Con-
stitutional changes. “Tell us about the
basic wage,” said the interjector; “our
politics are in our pay envelopes.” Women
know all about the pay envelope, too.
But whereas it is for the man to see that
it is fat, it is for the woman to see that
it is well spent. No doubt there are
millions of exceptions to the rule that
women are careful spenders; but certainly
women will want value for their money
and go in search of it in far greater
numbers than men will. Man is a vain
creature, on the whole: especially in
prosperous times he hates his fellows to
think of him as one incapable of earning
big money, or as one to whom the spend-
ing of “a few bob more or less” is of any
consequence. After all, was not that the
spirit chiefly responsible for our difficulties
to-day? More, is it not the spirit which
stands in the way of a cleaning up?
Men have taken charge of the political
affairs of the nation; and they have laid
down rules and built up customs to suit
themselves exactly. For their own benefit
they have given woman a vote: they
expect her to give it back to them. And
mostly she does. It is time she seriously
considered whether they have made much
of a job of this business of governing on
the strength of her vote: it is time not
only for her to consider whether she could
not do better, but for man also to
consider whether her training and tradi-
tions—instincts «if you please—could not be
used to far greater national advantage.
RAISING THE EXCHANGE RATE.
Judging by the fervor with which it is
advocated in some quarters, one would
suppose that an increase in the exchange
rate must bring more money to Australia—
that if the rate is 125 and is put up to 135.
another 10 p.c. comes to Australia for our
exports. A good many graziers are sure
about it: they have handled the extra
money, and there is no getting away from
that! But, notwithstanding this evidence of
the senses, notwithstanding this proof of the
sale-notes, the solemn, sober, stodgy fact
is that an increase of the exchange rate does
not bring a single farthing to the country.
What it really amounts to is a notification
to the world that our £ has slipped back
a little further and that we will for the
future both buy and sell on this depreciated
scale. Every person outside this country,
however, continues to buy and sell in his
own currency; and any tricks we may play
with our currency do not affect him in
the smallest degree.
Whence, then, comes the extra money
which the exporter undoubtedly receives?
The exporter ships, say, his bullswool to
London. Now, what the buyer can, afford
to pay him in Australian money depends
normally upon one thing and one thing
only—what he can get some importer in
Australia to pay for the bullswool money in
London. Money is a commodity, like wheat
and wool and mousetraps, and the price
of it is governed by supply and demand.
If there is a keen demand in London for
Australian money (that is to say, money
held in London for the sellers of goods
exported from Australia), then the rate of
exchange will tend upwards; if the demand
is weak—that is to say, if there are few
importers or other people in Australia want-
ing to pay bills in London—then the rate
of exchange tends to fall. The rate of
exchange is no more “fixed” normally than
the price of potatoes; supply and demand
determine it.
You can, however, play tricks with this
market just as you can with most others.
Years ago certain copper-producers and
others tried it on a colossal scale; setting
out to raise the price of copper, they created
forces which presently sent the metal to
a lower price than it had ever touched
before. A couple of years ago Canada and
the United States tried it with wheat; and
they piled up such surplus stocks that the
price fell and plunged almost every wheat-
farmer in the world into difficulties.
Rubber, tin, coffee—efforts have been made
to control all these markets, and the tale
so far is one of dismal failure. And let
there be no mistake: what it is proposed
to do in relation to exchange is what the
producers have attempted in most of these
cases: to somehow beat the law of supply
and demand by “regulating” the supply
or otherwise. The plan proposed in this
case is to disregard any accumulation of
funds in London, to disregard the price
which importers are prepared to pay for
Australian money in London, and to lift
the purchasing rate beyond the capacity of
the importer to pay. We do not hear so
much of “corners” these days as we did
in the latter part of last century, mainly
because they so rarely succeeded that few
are now attempted. What happened to
the French Copper Syndicate is typical.
At ever-increasing prices metal was bought
until the nerve of the operators—or their
cash resources—failed; and in the crash that
followed metal had to be sacrificed as far
below the average price as it had been bought
above it. If exchange is raised above the
rate which the importer can afford to pay,
then the money for our exports must accu-
mulate in London. We are told that, this
does not matter —that we owe hundreds of
millions there. But, unfortunately, with an
exchange rate at, say, 135, we should be
paying £135 Australian to get rid of £lOO
of overseas debt. The accumulation of
money bought at a high rate in London
is thus fraught with exactly the same
danger as the accumulation of any other
• commodity in excess of market require-
ments.
No doubt there is a way to eat up any
such London balances: we can make it
worth while for the importer to buy Aus-
tralian money at a high rate in London.
This can be done by the simple process of
abolishing or reducing Customs and primage
duties. Two results might follow: Common-
wealth revenue would probably be affected;
certainly employment in the Common-
wealth’s factories would be. Neither is a
contingency which any Australian Govern-
ment can face at the present time.
Of course everybody wants to help the
primary producer. He is the greatest of
all sufferers from this crash in prices. World
trade is disorganised, not only because of
the fall in prices, but especially because
of the inequality of the falls: what the
farmer has to sell has slumped about twice
as much as the things he needs to buy.
But he is not going to be benefited by any
artificial lifting of the rate of exchange;
it may help him momentarily, but at very
great risk presently. Upon an increase of
prices the farmer, like everybody else,
depends for a return of prosperity. But it
must not be a make-believe increase—a
piece of leg-pulling.
We may not be able to do much towards
securing international action to raise prices;
but ivhat we can do we should do. The
governor of the Commonwealth Bank is
going to Ottawa and thence on to London:
and no doubt he will make contact with
the great Central Reserve Banks on this
most important of all their possible present
services to the world. Meantime there is
only one policy for us: to press forward
steadily for a reduction of costs which will
at least put the primary producer in a
better position to go into the world’s
markets.
MISLEADING THE ELECTORS.
A great victory was won in N. S. Wales
the other day: Lang, who had led a Gov-
ernment with an overpowering majority,
was thrown out and a quite different sort
of Government, also with an overpowering
majority, was brought in. But icas it a
great victory? Something like half a mil-
lion people voted for Lang; the turn-over
was less than 10 p.c. Was that a. great
victory?
Half a million people voted for Lang!
What does it mean? Arthur Griffith, Min-
ister for Works in the first Labor Govern-
ment in N. S. Wales, and through all the
years an earnest advocate of early-Labor
principles, was a Federal Labor candidate
for Waratah, the district which first sent
him to the State Parliament 30-odd years
ago. This wag his experience:—
During my recent campaign in the Newcastle
district I found that almost all of the people ax-e
quite convinced (a) that the money Mr. Lang refused
to pay is interest on war debts; (6) that the
“experts’ plan” meant a reduction ir. the standard
wage to £2 11s. 6d., and that this had been accepted
by the Premiers’ Confei-ence and is a portion of the
Premiers’ plan; (c) that the Mortgage Taxation
Bill specifically exempted the holders of private
mortgages and applied only to the banks ; (d)
that the action of his Excellency in dissolving Par-
liament was the crime for which Charles I. lost his
head. When I pointed out that the States have
nothing to do with war loan interest, which is a
charge met by the Commonwealth from its own
revenues, that the “'experts’ plan” did not contem-
plate a reduction to £2 11s. Gd., and that, anyhow,
it had not been accepted by the Premiers, that the
Mortgage Taxation Bill did not exempt private mort-
gagees, and that all the Governor had done was to
give the electors an opportunity to endorse or reject
Mr. Lang's policy, I was uniformly met with guffaws
of incredulous laughter.
Well, what can be done about it? Are
we to say that these people are not en-
titled to vote because of their ignorance,
or are we going to take decisive steps to
prevent the people being deceived? In
short, are we going to say that democratic
government is a proved failure and proceed
to abandon it, or are we going to say that
it is being perverted by its enemies, mas-
querading as the people’s friends, and that
its enemies must be dealt with, no matter
how they masquerade? One thing is quite
certain: we cannot go on as we are going.
It is not a question whether the Lang plan
is right or wrong. It may be right. But
the people can never say whether it is right
or wrong so long as they are filled with
lies concerning it. Either democracy—self-
government—must go, or we- must see that
the people are protected from liars and
cheats in order that they may give an
intelligent vote.
There is no question of setting up a
Court of any kind to deal with political
issues. It cannot be left to any Court to
say whether Moore was right or Forgan
Smith, Lang or Stevens, Argyle or Tunne-
cliffe. But there ought to be a Court to
say whether any one of these misled the
people by false statements. It might even
be possible to say whether a man promised
things which he knew he could not perform.
Impeachment is not a new process; but il
is so necessary that it has been provided
for in some of the newest of Constitutions.
In the first few years of the reformed
Storthing, the democratic Parliament of
Norway, there were six trials. Later, in
1883. no less than 11 Ministers were im-
peached for attempting to defeat the self-
governing rights of the people. The sen-
tences included fines and perpetual disquali-
fication of their right to be Ministers.
We don’t allow lying and misrepresenta-
tion even on a patent medicine wrapper;
generally there are heavy fines for it, and
in some places gaol. How much more dan-
gerous is it to permit place-hunters to lie
to the people and by misrepresentation and
trickery secure the appointment of a Gov-
ernment which may wreck the entire State!
INSULTING WORDS.
“It has now been declared by the Full Court of
N. S. Wales that a sensitive constable is not entitled
to be insulted when a speaker refers to Mr. Lang
as ‘a nasty tyrant and a scoundrel.’ ” — Daily paper.
The Full Court made no such declaration,
but held that it was necessary for the prose-
cution to establish that somebody closely
associated with the complainant was in-
sulted by words insulting in themselves.
In the case under review, the evidence of
the police on the question of personal
insult was so unconvincing that the Chief
Stipendiary Magistrate held, as a matter of
fact, that the police witnesses were not
insulted. He, however, went one step
further, and, following the dicta of Fer-
guson and Halse Rogers, J.J., in Wragge v.
Pritchard, held that it was not necessary
for the prosecution to establish the fact that
anyone was insulted; it was sufficient that
the words complained of were insulting in
their nature, and used in a public place.
Prior to 1908 it had to be proved that
the insulting words were uttered with in-
tent to provoke a breach of the peace, or
that a breach of the peace might have been
occasioned by the use of them. In 1908
the law was repealed, and it was enacted
that every person in or near any public
street, thoroughfare or place using any
threatening, abusive or insulting words
should be liable to a fine of £5. In 1918
one Breen, at an anti-conscriptionjst meet-
ing in a public street, said: —
There were 30,000 British women behind the
firing-line doing servile work and acting as con-
cubines to the British officers.
He was convicted and appealed, and his
appeal came before Chief Justice Cullen and
Sly and Ferguson, J.J., who held that the
words were not insulting words within the
meaning of the present section of the Vag-
rancy Act because none of the women or
officers were present to hear the words. In
the course of his judgment the Chief Justice
said:—
I cannot regard the enactment as intending .to go
further than to provide a penalty for those who
violate public order by language calculated to hurt
the personal feelings of individuals, whether the
words are addressed directly to themselves or used
in their hearing- and whether regarding their own
character or that of persons closely associated with
them.
In the case of Wragge v. Pritchard the
complainant, though not present on the
occasion, brought evidence of others closely
associated with him, who deposed to being
insulted by the words they heard. In com-
menting on the evidence Chief Justice
Street said:—
That evidence, I think, is sufficient to bring the
case within the section applying the test of what
was intended by the enactment laid down in ex parte.
Breen.
Judge Ferguson, whilst concurring with the
Chief Justice’s judgment, went further, and
said that, although he was a party to the
decision in ex parte Breen, on reconsidera-
tion he had come to the conclusion that
the decision should have been the other
way. His Honor thought that if the words
used in a public place were insulting in
their nature—that is, calculated to insult
some person whether present or not, and
whether any persons connected or associated
with him were present or not—it was an
offence within the section. Justice Halse
Rogers was of the same opinion.
The Full Court judgment in the New
Guard case followed the finding in ex parte
Breen (confirmed by the finding of the
Chief Justice in Wragge v. Pritchard), but
dissociated itself with the views expressed
by Chief Justice Street’s colleagues in
Wragge v. Pritchard. The Court, however,
did not disturb that part of the magis-
trate’s finding which said that the words
used with regard to Mr. Lang were insult-
ing and were spoken in a public place, bui
held in effect that, as the prosecution had
not proved Mr. Lang or anyone “closely
associated” with him had been present, a
conviction could not lie.
But a policeman’s feelings, like anybody
else’s, may be subject to laceration; hence
any well-meaning enthusiast who takes it
for granted that a policeman’s evidence
cannot convict him in a prosecution for
insulting words may easily find himself
mistaken.
H.M.W.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Second Chambers.
One of the first things the new Government
will do in N. S. Wales is to bring in a bill
for the reform of the Leg. Council, later
on putting it to the people. The Bavin
Government proposed a House partly nomi-
nated, partly elective. The Stevens Gov-
ernment, so far as it has discovered its
attitude, is not in favor of a composite plan;
but necessarily its opinion on the whole
subject is nebulous.
The first thing we have to make up our
minds about is what we want the second
Chamber to do. The Bryce Conference,
which sat in 1917-18, found that in Britain
its purposes should be (1) to examine
and revise bills brought from the House of
Commons; (2) to initiate bills, principally
non-controversial, which might have an
easier passage through the Commons if
they had been well debated already; (3) to
interpose just enough delay to allow the
people to express their opinion; (4) to dis-
cuss important questions of foreign policy
in a calmer atmosphere than that of the
Commons. We may accept this as an
almost completely satisfactoiy statement
of what we require from our own second
Chamber.
But even though we know what we want
a second Chamber for, it does not follow
that we know how to secure the ideal.
The nominated system aims to give the
State the benefit of the services of special-
ists who would never come forward for
popular election. But all experience has
shown that sooner or later nomination
means party appointments; and that de-
stroys its value. If we are going to have
men appointed for their political views,
then the only proper appointing authority
is the people.
The question of the proper qualification
for an elector then arises; and this depends
largely upon the powers given to the second
Chamber. If it is to be no more than a
revising body and a body to secure delay so
that the people’s opinion may be fully
ascertained, then electors might well be
required to be a little more mature than
they need be for the popular Chamber. It
is doubtful whether any property qualifica-
tion is practicable; an intelligence test
would have far more to recommend it,
though, so far as The Bulletin knows, no
country has put it into use.
Our Federal Constitution goes to a good
deal of trouble to arrange that elections
to the two Chambers shall take place simul-
taneously. The wisdom of it is very doubt-
ful: it has helped to make the Senators
definitely party men, and the Senate’s value
as a check has thus been almost wholly lost.
What would have happened in N. S. Wales
during the past 18 months if the Council
had been an elective body consisting of
party followers elected on the same fran-
chise and at the same time as the Assem-
bly? How, on the other hand, could we
have constituted a Leg. Council which
during this period would have secured full
consideration of all measures brought for-
ward, with the delay of such as did not
clearly appear to have the sanction of the
people? When we have found the answer
to that question we shall have found what
our Leg. Council should be.
On present appearances the body might
best consist of wholly elective members
chosen by no more than eight large dis-
tricts using a system of proportional repre-
sentation, half the members to be elected
every three years. With such a body we
might perhaps safely dispense with any
qualification beyond that now required of
an Assembly voter; but it might not be
amiss to provide, as has been done else-
where, that, except in the case of Ministers,
candidates must be bona fide residents
within the divisions for which they stand.
9
The Governor and the Soviet.
Mr. Lang having been nicely disposed of,
three cheers are called for the Governor
who dismissed him. The Bulletin joins in
the cheers as heartily as anyone. But that
does not alter the fact that, because the
terms on which a Governor holds his job
are vague and unsatisfactoiy, N. S. Wales
passed through a terribly painful year.
It will be remembered, too, that his Excel-
lency’s breach with his principal Ministers
came over the matter of defying the
Federal law. His Excellency was not
prepared to see the Crown in the position
of a deliberate lawbreaker. Thus the
large question that has all along awaited
an answer still goes unanswered: Must his
Excellency accept the advice of his Minis-
ters though the very strongest evidence is
forthcoming that his Ministers are out of
step with the country?
The Bulletin has throughout held that
a principal duty of the Crown in these days
is to guard the people’s self-governing
rights. It is the Crown’s undoubted pre-
rogative to dissolve Parliament: there is no
haggling about that. Why is that right
reserved to the Crown? Surely it can be
for only one reason: to ensure that the
Government has the approval of the people.
Yet the circumstances in which action
is called for from the Crown or the Crown’s
representative are so ill-defined and uncer-
tain that for over 12 months the Lang
Government was permitted to retain office
notwithstanding that it had repudiated the
State’s debts in the face of an undertaking,
prior to the election, to have no truck
with repudiation in any shape or form;
and the subsequent history of the Govern-
ment which had promised the people never
to repudiate was one unbroken record of
repudiation. The people, then, have a
right to know this: Is there any power in
our Constitution to drag a traitorous Gov-
ernment before the electors? Has a Gov-
ernor the right to tell his Ministers there
is strong evidence that they are out of step
with the people, and to require them to get
the people’s endorsement? If there is that
power, then Governors ought to know it
without any doubt; and there should be no
question of- recalling them if they exercise
their right. If there is not that power,
then we must get it; otherwise we shall
be in great danger of some day having our
country Sovietised by a “daring minority”
before we have been given an opportunity
to constitutionally resist the revolutionary
movement.
9
Taxing Inter-State Traders.
The new N.S.W. Government has set the
new Queensland Government one good
example, anyway. Many daiiymen in South
Queensland send cream to factories over the
border, paying State income tax to their
own Government. It recently occurred to
the Taxation Department in Sydney that
they ought to have paid N.S.W. tax instead,
and as an outcome they were bombarded
with demands for information concerning
their receipts and expenditure for a number
of years. It seemed highly probable that
double tax would be extorted from these
dairymen until their case was brought under
the notice of Minister Bruxner. That gen-
tleman made strong representations to his
Taxation Department, and as a result the
dairy-farmers have been informed that they
will not now be required to furnish returns
dating back to 1915 or thereabouts.
While Bruxner was taking the broad
view a man from the Queensland Taxation
Department, having completed his job in
Sydney, was in Melbourne examining the
books of merchants who have connections
with Queensland. His State taxes sales
made by such people in Queensland,
whether those sales have actually shown
a profit or not, and it has a way of treat-
ing the traders as if they were foreigners,
and swindlers into the bargain. For
example:—
A company which has no capital invested in
Queensland is subject to tax at the highest rate,
46d. in the £l. Where no returns have been fur-
nished by a company liable to tax in Queensland
the commissioner has the right to assess tax on an
assumed profit of up to 12J per cent, of Queensland
sales.
The parties concerned have to send re-
turns to the Commonwealth Taxation
Department and to their local office as
well. It is bad enough to be harassed by
two hordes of taxgatherers without Toeing
subjected to the inquisitions and exactions
of hordes in distant States. By common
consent of the victims, Queensland pos-
sesses the most arbitrary and interfering
of all these hordes. It not only requires
that payments shall be made in respect
of future sales; although it is well aware
that the full tax has been paid in the State
where the goods were produced, it demands
payment in respect of the sales of those
goods for years past. When it is protested
that this means double taxation on the
same income—treble taxation if the pay-
ments to the Commonwealth are included—
it merely advises the taxpayer to get a
refund from his home State, a thing which
it knows to be impossible to any extent
worth mentioning. Queensland is not really
advantaged by its pettifogging pursuit of
fellow-Australians who offend by selling it
goods. In one way and another it loses
more than it gains.
Of course, there should be one Australian
income tax, with one decentralised admin-
istration, instead of seven income taxes and
a sheaf of unemployment taxes and State
and Federal offices in eveiy capital. The
job is done so badly that thousands of
conscienceless persons never pay tax, and
are never brought to book, while honest
folk are plagued and bled and robbed—
by the double-tax route—unmercifully.
9
Imports That Disgrace Us.
Though our overseas trade figures have
changed so much for the better, a dry year
would land us again in serious difficulties
unless we can quickly discover ways of
further reducing our imports. It is quite
true that some of the lines have been cut
to the bone; but there are others which
still do us no credit. Among these are
the following items (imports for nine
months in each case, expressed in £’s ster-
ling) :
1930-1931. 1931-32.
Fish £448,730 £340,285
Yarns, art. silk . . . . 308,770 363,398
Yams, cotton 364,391 322,979
Woolpacks 283,882 282,263
Kerosene 595,666 295,644
Lubricating oil . . . . 589,798 376,830
Petrol spirit . . . . 4,139,246 2,005,000
Timber 682,471 520,910
Paper, printing . . . . 1,362,979 1,204,669
Paper, wrapping . . . . 138.876 115,249
Textiles (not apparel) . . 9,147,170 7,241,341
Apparel 1,112,906 725,072
That we should be still sending away
nearly a million a year for timber is dis-
graceful. The only explanation offered is
that our labor costs are too high. They
may be; but far too often high labor
costs mean poor administration, including
excessive overhead. Oils and papers may
well be bracketed with timber. It is still
doubtful whether we have anv flowing oil
supplies; but there is no doubt at all that
we own the largest and richest of all known
oil-shale deposits. Here again the history
of the industry has been a record of igno-
rance, blundering and occasionally some-
thing worse. A start has been made lately
to revive the industry at Wolgan and
Capertee (N.S.W.); but there are others.
Assistance out of the public funds to set
this industry on its feet is not called for.
What, however, the Federal Government
is well entitled to say is that those who
undertake this business and carry it through
in an approved manner shall get ample
tariff protection. The same ought to be
said with regard to paper. Here again be-
yond doubt we have abundant suitable
timber for the purposes of the industry:
there is especially no good reason why we
should import any of that hundred thou-
sand tons of newsprint which comes in
every year and drains this country of a
million and three-quarters of money. Tas-
mania has the forests; here is the market,
with the labor and the capital. The one
thing that stands in the way is that capi-
tal is too nervous to take the risk of in-
vestment. Governments have no more
important duty than to give it confidence;
and organised Labor cannot do any greater
service to its members than to heartily
join in doing it.
9
The New Guard Appeals.
In Sydney last week Judge Curlewis, of
the District Court, had before him the
appeals of the eight young men of the New
Guard against the sentence of three months
for their raid on the premises of J. S.
Garden. His Honor showed again those
qualities which have made so learned a
lawyer so uncertain a Judge.
Mr. Curlewis’s principal trouble is a
large capacity for making his law submerge
his commonsense. In this case, before the
hearing was entered upon, an application
was made for an adjournment to the next
sittings on the ground that the matter,
with others, was to be investigated by a
Royal Commission. The Crown had no
objection. “I am going to decide this case
myself and not trouble about a Royal
Commission,” his Honor replied. Royal
Commissions, he said, had nothing to do
with courts of justice. “The appeals will
come on here on the day appointed or
they will be dismissed”—his Honor was so
proud of this determination that he gave
it out five times.
Is it possible to conceive of a bench of
Judges not so overpoweringly important as
Mr. Curlewis—such a bench as, say, the
Privy Council—refusing an application for
an adjournment, made on the ground that a
Royal Commission was about to explore
that and other matters, and for this reason
not opposed by the Crown? What harm
could possibfy have come from an adjourn-
ment? “This,” said his Honor later, “is the
most mysterious case I have ever heard.”
That being so, and as no harm could pos-
sibly come from an adjournment, common-
sense would surely have directed that the
matter should be held over in the hope that
the Commission would throw some light
upon it.
Happily, though the Judge is supreme in
his own court, he is not supreme outside of
it; and he has left the Government no option
but to move the proper authority to sus-
pend the sentences until the Royal Com-
mission has probed the mysteiy and fur-
nished its report.
9
Piebald Politics.
Lately The Bulletin suggested that
absence of unemployment in a country does
not prove that it has good government;
instead, it may prove merely the existence
of slave conditions. Correspondents there-
upon wrote, some agreeing, others disagree-
ing, with what was said to be, The Bulle-
tin's inference—that the only remedy for
our present unemployment is practical
slavery.
The Bulletin denounces any such infer-
ence. Under Communism slavery or forced
labor probably always will be necessary.
If you could pick out your Communists
and try the system under selected condi-
tions, voluntary effort for the public good
might wholly take the place of effort more
or less controlled by expectation of per-
sonal advantage. But no attempt even
of that sort has ever yet succeeded: thus
the New Australia colony in S. America
crashed in less than a year, though no
enterprise on Communistic lines had ever
been so carefully prepared or had promised
so well. If this is time of experiments made
by and with picked men, what faintest
hope is there for one made on purely volun-
tary lines by a whole nation composed very
largely of indifferent if not unfriendly per-
sons?
Broadly we struggle and strive for only
three reasons: because we can get per-
sonal advantage of some sort out of it;
because we think it is good for our fellow-
men; or because the whip of the task-
master is over us. But as to the second
reason, how many of us are willing to
struggle day after day merely for the sake
of the community? How many of us give
the public well-being and comfort one single
thought in a day? Introduce Communism
to such a people and, personal advantage
being no longer to be got out of personal
effort, what other compelling force can take
the place of the whip of the taskmaster?
Russia has found that out. The men who
took the vast business in hand there saw
that ruthlessness was inevitable if there
was to be even an approach to success.
The whole Caucasian world has expressed
horror of some of the things done under
more cruel slavery than the Slave States
of America ever knew. But nobody has
shown how a Communist State can be
established and carried on otherwise; no-
body has ever shown what else can take the
place of that urge of personal advantage
which is the very basis of the so-called
capitalist system.
The only remedy for our present unem-
ployment is not, then, “practical slavery.”
We must have that if we turn for salvation
to Communism or socialisation, or what-
ever you like to call it. But if we throw
that crazy idea overboard we shall soon
see the unemployed absorbed in industry
based on personal advantage. Three-
fourths of the trouble which afflicts Aus-
tralia and has afflicted it during the past
few years springs out of a struggle to
regiment us, to order our comings and our
goings, to inspect us and regulate us. We
have destroyed initiative and effort; we
have practically ordered all men at a certain
class ot work to accept the same pay,
though one may earn twice as much as
another. And then we have adopted a
specious but shamefully unfair thing called
the basic wage, specially designed to keep
the good and diligent workman fipm get-
ting what he earns in order that the poor
loafer may get more than he earns—a plan
turning potential captains of industry into
disgruntled and embittered mediocrities. In
short, we have been professing to carry
on the capitalist system, but have sneaked
in the instruments of the Communist sys-
tem ; and naturally the thing has not been
a great success. As one result we have
got probably 300,000 unemployed where we
should not have 50,000.
9
Cavalry In War.
“Centurion” fights for his old arm
A recent article in the “Japan Magazine” by
Major K. Katayama begins with the assertion that
the recent fighting in China has taught his country’s
forces some new lessons in the art of war. He puts
it forward that the campaign has proved that
cavalry, “which has heretofore been regarded as
rather poor in combative power, being only able
to display its activities in communicative connection
and reconnoitring the enemy’s position, is capable of
becoming a preponderant fighting force.” He then
proceeds to enumerate several successes of his
country’s cavalry in a tone of astonished approval.
One would have thought that any amateur of
military history would have been acquainted witii
quite recent happenings recording the overwhelming
success of the mounted arm even under conditions
only moderately favorable to it. Putting aside the
important achievements of the Confederate cavalry
in the American Civil War, the influence of the
Uhlans in the Franco-Prussian struggle of 1870, and
the mutual successes of both sides in the Boer War
of 30 years ago, which was preponderantly a mounted
war, we have several quite up to date instances of
the battle importance of the mounted arm.
We may begin with the splendid performances of
Allenby’s cavalry in holding back Von Kluck’s
enveloping movement through Belgium in 1914.
when the British horsemen outmanoeuvred and out-
fought the opposition until the latter could not be
persuaded to face them, a situation which helped
tremendously to the success of the long Allied rear-
guard action which turned to successful counter-
attack at the Marne. Even if that great feat of
arms were forgotten by foreign military experts— :
as it seems to have been forgotten by most of the
British people who ever heard of it —what is to be
said of the repulse at Romani of a Turkish army
corps attempting the capture of the Suez Canal and
the invasion of Egypt in 1916? This was accom-
plished by a single mounted division of Australian
and Maoriland troops, backed by a few batteries of
British field artillery and a Camel Corps of Aus-
tralia n-British composition. There was a moral back-
ing of British infantry who did not take part in
the actual fighting, but stood fast in their redoubts.
Later, the same mounted division, aided now In-
British Yeomanry and the Camels, expelled the
last Turkish garrisons from Sinai and invaded (lie
soil of Palestine. Following on all that is the
lesson of 1917-18 when, after the Australian Light
Horse had turned the strongly fortified Turkish Gaza
position by faking the left flank trenches at Beer-
sheba in" a galloping charge, the greatest body of
cavalry in history began that tremendous drive up
Palestine which, with occasional checks, ended in
the utter destruction of the Turko-German forces at
Damascus—the most murderous rout any army has
suffered since Napoleon retreated from Moscow.
Certainly at this stage of the campaign there were
heavy reinforcements of infantry and artillery, with
Indian cavalry to back the Anzacs* and the Yeomanry,
but it was the cavalry only which made the over-
whelming success of that campaign possible.
For Australia, still largely, in spite of bloated
cities, a nation of horsemen, the lesson should be
plain to read. The mounted arm is still a deciding
factor in warfare, and nowhere do natural conditions
and the temper of the people favor its use more
than in Australia.
9
Women Under the Soviet.
From an article by Sallie McCabe Johnson
(“With My Husband in Soviet Russia”),
in “Mining and Metallurgy,” the great tech-
nical journal of the U.S.A.:—
A sight one might think would shame even a
Comrade of the Red Proletariat is the poor female
creature who breaks the ice on the streets and
shovels it into a waiting waggon to be hauled away.
She is clothed in the cheapest and skimpiest of
dresses; her coat is threadbare, and on her feet
are men’s shoes long past repair ; above men’s socks
she wears rags around her legs; a man's foul cap is
pulled over her ears and on her cracked hands are
cotton gloves worn fingerless. When the last shovel-
fuls begin sliding off she rests for a moment while
the man gathers up the reins and drives away.
He has been patiently waiting for a long time for
her to load that waggon!
Women compose the railroad gangs, women
engineers, women firemen ; but no women conductors
—that’s easy enough for a man. I have seen women
repairing as well as sweeping the streets; they
run the street cars, also theirs the job of standing
all night in the icy wind at the switches. I have
never seen a woman drive a taxi, but I have seen
her loading logs for telephone poles; I have never
seen her drive a droshky, but she takes her place
in line with the soldiery, and she makes- an efficient
police officer as well. Women seem mostly beasts
of burden, and it is a common sight to note two
men walking jauntily beside a woman with three
huge packs, one on her back, one in front, and
another in her hand.


%
m
!=CC
A
1
Even more luxurious even
more charming - Sydney’s
“Australia,” brilliantly re-
decorated in the modern
manner.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room from 10/G per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Lunelieon or Dinner in the Day-room
from 4/-
Telegrapliic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
The . T Hotel
N
Diamond Engagement Mings
£3O
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Communist preferences saved Davies,
Lang’s Minister of Education, in Illawarra,
but Tonge went down in Canterbury, where
in 1930 he got 11,827 votes to the National-
ist’s 5177. So the Langsters lost 31 seats—•
just two short of three-fifths of the number
they bad at the dissolution. In the course of
six months Labor has suffered the two worst
lickings it ever experienced, and Lang was
the cause of both. Nothing has been heard
from the geutleman since a cry of anguish
was wrung from him on election-night, and
it is supposed that he hurried away to his
Hawkesbury farm to escape the sight of
posters and “stickers” bearing the exploded
legend “Lang is Right.”
With one seat, Ilaniiltou, to be filled.
Queensland’s Foggy Smith Government; will
have a majority of four in a House of 62
members. This will he sufficient, if the com-
NEW PREMIER: “A bawbee for your thochts,
Johnnie!”
ATTORNEY-GENERAL MULLAN: “I’m thinkin ’
it’ll be awkward if two or three o’ the
lads twist.”
rades don’t quarrel. There has been no
party split in Queensland during the depres-
sion, but: there has been almost everywhere
else, with the result that the Commonwealth,
Vic. and N. S. Wales Labor Governments,
after a chequered career of two years or
thereabouts, were defeated by dreadful majo-
rities. And though Hill lingers on in South
Aus. it is as a Premier without a party.
Father of the House at 59, Daniel Levy
had to wait just on 31 years for promotion
to the N.S.W. Cabinet as Attorney-General.
Now he has been shunted (to the Speaker-
ship, if he will take it) to make room for
H. E. Manning, K.C., who failed to capture
King on June 11. It is no way to treat a
faithful servant of the victorious party
through all its vicissitudes and changes of
name, and Levy has thousands of sym-
pathisers. Manning and 11. M. Hawkins,
one of the honorary Ministers, have been
added to the Leg. Council, which will now
have 111 members. Jackson (Local Govern-
ment), Vincent (Mines and Forests) and
Martin (Justice) go into the Cabinet of
12 more or less for ornamental purposes,
and there are three honoraries. Nine Cabinet
Ministers and two honoraries ought to be
enough for any State in N.S.W.’s condition.
Premier Stevens is talking much about the
necessity for “sacrifices.” Before the tax-
payers are asked to make any more, let the
politicians start on themselves by returning
to pre-war Cabinets and rates of pay. Even
Holman, extravagant as his ideas were,
started with a Ministry of nine'
Vic.’s 31st. Leg. Assembly looks lopsided.
The strength of parties, apart from Spea-
cock and memberless Carlton, is: U.A.P.,
32; Cockies, 14; Labor, 14; Independents
(Hogan, Bond and McLachlan), 3. During
the brief session the public-service retrench-
ment portion of the Premiers’ plan will be
re-enacted, and temporary provision will be
made for unemployment relief; then there
will be an adjournment to enable the Argyles
to put the finishing touches on their pro-
gramme.
The probable cause of the downfall of the
Queensland Government was that it didn’t
spend more loan money. Something like 95
per cent, of the population sticks to the
delusion that Australia is a very rich coun-
try, with “great natural resources,” and
about 75 per cent, believes that it should
borrow money to “develop” these resources,
“development” being impossible without bor-
rowing. Some want to borrow madly, and
some believe in “moderate” borrowing. Pre-
mier Moore came close to proving that a
State could prosper without borrowing at
all, so Queensland has decided to try Foggy
Smith instead.
Supported by the Young Nat. section of
the U.A.P., Attorney-General Menzies heat
Chief Sec. Macfarlan for the deputy-leader-
ship of the party in Vic. Assembly. So the
K.C., whose rise in politics has been as
swift as at the Bar, gets a step nearer the
Premiership he covets. Still, if a vacancy
occurs on the Supreme Court or High Court
bench, he may be asked to fill it.
Chile, a long skinny republic in S. America,
is trying its hand at Communism. But
there is a good reason why the unspeakable
horrors which’ Bela Kim (otherwise Cohen),
Szamuelly and other Communists perpetrated
in Hungary will only be mildly imitated in
Chile, even apart from the fact that South
America has never taken to the worst form
of Lenin’s disease, specialising in decent
earthquakes instead. The emaciated Common-
wealth is about 2800 miles long and on an
average 100 miles broad. In spots it isl only
40 miles across. A place, with all that coast
line is amenable not only to naval pressure
but to the pressure of public opinion which
blows in from the sea.
Pease, the gentleman who said, when in
Opposition, “If we on this side had the
power to do so, we would reduce the burden
of interest payments to nil,” is now Queens-
land Minister of Lands, and will be Acting
Premier when Foggy Smith is away. If
he tries to emulate Lang the national Gov-
ernment will go into action with the Finan-
cial Agreements Enforcement Act, which
has not been repealed. But Queensland is
unlikely to let any imitator of Lang en-
danger its sugar embargo and preferences,
especially as it was keener than any other
State on the Commonwealth taking over
local debts, the States to furnish the interest.
When the question was put to the people
in 1928 the Queensland voting was 367,257
for and 47,250 against.
De Valera looks more like Lang every
day except that he hasn’t Lang’s atro-
ciously bad manners, or a mortgage on
the “Labor Daily.” He has Lang’s crav-
ing to stop payment of his debts', and
he. also wants the money back which he
paid before he stopped paying his debts, and
he wants his subjects t 0 pay the debt-money
to him. though he won’t pass it on to the
public creditor. He is suspected of wanting
it for very foolish purposes. The gentleman
offers, to be more reasonable, for a time any-
how, if the British will coerce Northern Ire-
land to become part of the Irish Free State
so that he may co’erce it to become part of
a republic. The British Government re-
“Mr. Lang’s newspaper gleefully announces that
Mr. De Valera ‘lias tackled the real issue, Money,
and the payment of land annuities,’ and has issued
‘a challenge to suspect Courts and cunning lawyers.’”
“Thanks, Sean, for lettin ’ me borry y’r
policy an’ y’r posters. Now, is there
annything else ye can think of that
moight aid me in me shtruggle wid the
Opprissor?"
plies that Northern Ireland is a Home Ruled
Dominion, like Maoriland. If he wants to
join up with De Valera’s dominion it may,
but England is not going to’ apply pressure
to it at the request of a half-Spanish dreamer
from New York.
The problem of Northern Ireland is very
old and very confused. A deuce of a while
ago, before Protestants were invented, the
restless Scots of Ireland took to the whole-
sale invasion of Caledonia, as it was called
then. The south-west of Caledonia was
bandy and almost empty—it could almost be
seen from north-eastern Ireland on a clear
day. So the Irish Scots swarmed across,
and did a great killing of the Piets. But
when the descendants of these old settlers
started for home again, accompanied by
others, a great change had come about. They
still called themselves Scots like their fore-
fathers, but they had acquired a uew reli-
gion which they took very seriously, and
talked with a strong Presbyterian accent.
If Scotland were to get Home Rule they
might feel more inclined to join it than to
hitch on with De Valera’s disturbed show.
The Republican party convention has com-
missioned Hoover to hump the banner for
next presidential term, and carried a pro-
posal for an amendment of the Constitution
by which every State may be as wet or as
“It’ll he all right if I lake waiter with it.”
dry as it pleases. If this goes through, which
seems probable, Uncle will be back where
he was before he made his wonderful experi-
ment in snuffle and self-righteousness. Now
every criminal, believes in Prohibition. The
illegal importation, manufacture and distri-
bution of liquor is the basic industry of
almost every kind of gang, though its organi-
sation may spread into many other lines
such as blackmail and the kidnapping of
infants.
South Aus. has lost one of its Opposition
parties, the Liberals and the Cockies hav-
ing joined forces, as was done at Queens-
land. On the other hand, it acquires a
new Labor party every two or three weeks.
The local A.L.P., which has expelled
Premier Hill’s Labor party and Lang’s (two
members) „ has named Dawes, M.L.A., leader
of “the Parliamentary Labor party.” Dawes,
speaking at an A.L.P. meeting, mentioned
that his “Caucus” had “decided to act in
opposition, but in, view of the present econo-
mic situation we will not turn the Govern-
ment out.” Another delegate remarked that
the A.L.P. was itself in danger of being
turned out, since it owed the unions £B9 for
rent; and the meeting dispersed in gloom.
It is reckoned that by the time Victoria
has finished inquiring into the case of its
immigrant settlers the Court will have
examined over 500 witnesses spread over
several years and several square leagues
of paper. Victorian Governments have spent
£40,856,000 of loan money on “land pur-
chased for settlement and advances to set-
tlers.” A lot of this is l admittedly lost, and
it can’t he written off unless the debts are
repudiated. These immigrants say they lost
a good deal of their money also. Some of
them call ex-Premer Harry Lawson a heart-
less political swindler, but this is utterly
unjust. Lawson is a typical patriotic Aus-
tralian, with a profound faith in the great
natural resources of his country and in big
loans for the development of the same.
“Could we have maintained our power for
14 years by intimidation?” asked Dictator
Stalin at an interview arranged to impress
the public. It would certainly appear so.
The Czars, to quote only one example, main-
tained power in much the same way for a
great deal more than 14 years; in fact about
the worst of them lasted twice that period.
And, as was the case a century ago,
Russia now has an aristocracy, a stand-
ing army, a secret police and serfs,
called peasants. There have been two
Czars in the Red Republic, Pecksniff
I. and Knout 11., otherwise Lenin and Stalin,
who were elected by parties unknown for an
indefinite term. Trotsky, who thought to
succeed Pecksniff, was chased out of the
country by parties unknown for reasons un-
certain. The present position is also uncer-
tain, but the Muscovite is accustomed to be
chased round indefinitely by long-winded
tyrants, and the Red lot is a novelty.
Dr. Harris, who had been unofficial leader
of Vic. Leg. Council for 21 years, was natu-
rally disappointed at being left out of the
Argyle Ministry, especially as he had helped
t 0 precipitate the crisis which brought about
the downfall of the Hogans. He resigned
his leadership because lack of confidence in
him seemed to be implied, but at the request
of a large meeting of non-Labor members of
the House withdrew it. His position will
now be stronger than ever, and he will not
be mealy-mouthed in criticising. Jones, as
leader for the Argyle-Allan team, will hove
to adopt a different tone from that which
he employed as Hogan’s man. Of course he
can, if he likes, efface himself for a while
by acting as prompter to Goudie, Chandler
and H. E. Cohen, the other Ministers in tile
House.
Tennyson was among the prophets, too
(“Geraint and Enid”) :
He rooted out the slothful officer
Or guilty, which for bribe had wink’d at wrong,
And in their chairs set up a stronger race,
With hearts and hands, and sent a thousand men
To till the wastes, and, moving everywhere,
Clear’d the dark places and let in the law,
And broke the bandit holds and cleansed the land.
It is almost forgotten that the Bavin Gov-
ernment held a referendum in 1928 to decide
whether N. S. Wales should go bald-headed
for Prohibition, everybody in the drink trade
to be compensated out of borrowed money,
there being none other available. The crazy
project was turned down, else the smash
would have come before Lang’s time. The
wonderful borrowing proposition was sup-
ported by 357,864 voters.
The Old Man in London finds that bis
income from foreign investments is about
half what it was four years ago. Roughly,
it was £500,000,000 a year then and it is
£250,000,000 a year now. In the course of
nine years the Old Man lent £203,000,000 to
States outside the Empire and £145,000,000
has gone bad —in other words, the interest is
in default. Also he, lids lent £544,000,000
to dominions and corporations inside the
Empire, about £200,000,000 being to Aus-
tralia. None of this has actually gone bad
as yet, but Lang did his best to be the first
defaulter. The Old Man is never again likely
to be the indiscriminate lender that he has
been in the immediate past.
Queensland’s loan expenditure in 1920 was
£4,797,865 —£6 11s. per head, which was
£1 per head above the six States’ average.
That was when the Theodore crowd was
feeling good. In 1930-31 the loan expendi-
ture was £727,317 —15s. 4d. per head, or £1
ss. sd. per head below the six States’ aver-
age. It is over 30 years since The Bulle-
tin declared itself opposed to foreign
borrowing in peace-time and unfriendly
towards internal borrowing. That care-
ful financier John Bull is of a similar
way of thinking. Last year he found him-
self in the situation that he apparently
would have to take to foreign loans. He
took to a robust Protectionist policy instead.
Queensland Labor is running Jones.
McCormack’s Minister of Mines, for Hamil-
ton. The Opposition candidate is H. M.
Russell, formerly member for Toombul, one
of the eliminated electorates, while “the
Queensland party” will be represented by ,1.
C. Trotter, a consulting engineer. “The
Queensland party” threatens to go the way of
Hughes’s “Australian party.” (Somehow
new groups that give themselves high-sound-
ing titles never have any luck.
“The world has a pathetic belief that its problems
can be solved by summoning conferences of poli-
ticians and experts.”
“What we want to know is how to feed two
donkeys with one carrot.”
“I don’t know. But a hundred donkeys
might he able to tell you.”
Fiji's Governor lias figured in a
“crisis.” He raised the salary of the Sec-
retary for Native Affairs without consulting
the Leg. Council. This was contrary to the
Letters Patent, and the elected members,
led by Maynard Hedstrom, moved a vote of
censure on him. His Ex. apologised, saying
that he had acted under instructions from
Downing-street, and had forgotten to pass
the word to the Council. The motion was
pressed, but? was beaten by 15 to 6. a block
of official and native members voting against
it “under instruction.” The elected mcm :
hers are not taking things lying down, and
further action is promised. These little
amenities are common in Crown colonies.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Lab-dah” • The average Cantonese places
high value on adiposity. It is liis mark of
caste distinction, an imposing paunch indicat-
ing that the owner has raised himself by
commercial enterprise from the status of a
one-meal-a-day coolie to that ot an ansto-
crat of the rice-bowl. The favorite deity ot
these people is the so-called Laughing
Buddha, an effigy of a typical Chinese mer-
chant grasping a rosary m one hand and a
ba ,T of money in the other, and with an
enormous naked stomach sagging between
them With this ideal of righteousness be-
fore him, George Goon, a Melbourne fish-
hawker, returned to his native province a
vear ago with a £5OOO Tatt.’s prize. He was
then 62, and as thin as the usual hsh-
vendor. He was met by a procession ot
admiring fellow-citizens, and, after a pro-
longed series of festivities, settled down m a
fine mansion and started in earnest to make
up leeway amongst the fleshpots. The latest
report is that he died gloriously of an acute
attack of indigestion, supervening on a
specially lavish 24-liour banquet.
••Thonnanby”: Bookmaker .1. M. Dun-
ningham, Minister in the Stevens ( abinet.
isn't the first of his calling to
achieve Parliamentary emi-
nence. England supplies a
parallel in John Gully, one ot
the very first men to, institute
professional bookmaking on a
large scale. Before his advent
to the betting-ring, Gully had
been a prizefighter and won the
championship of England. As
a raceliorse-owner he became
one of the figures of the late
Georgian and early-Victorian
Turf, when the sport was re-
garded as a strict preserve ot
the privileged classes, as far as
control and management went.
Gully won all the English clas-
sic races, and pursuing his up-
ward career was finally elected
to the Commons for Pontefract
in Yorkshire, which provoked
some satirical lines about his
original avocation as, a breaker
of the bridges of rival pugil-
ists’ noses. His grandson rose
to the Speakership, and retired,
like other Speakers, with a viscounty.
“No. 9”: If “Brady’s Lookout” (B.
8/6/’32) will turn to page 290 of the
“British Pharmacopoeia” lie will find descrip-
tion. tests and dosage of red gum, or Euca-
lyptus kino. Also, this drug or remedy has
been included in Squire’s “Companion to the
8.P.” ever since 1871. The “8.P.” is the
official pharmacopceia for the Empire.
“Jungor”: “Snowy” Bowles, duly hanged
:\l Fremantle (W.A.) last week, was sus-
pectcd of hav-
ing more mur-
ders upon his
conscience than
the one which
sent him to
t. h e gallows;
but, tho ug li
appealed to by
a widow in S.
Aus. to clear
up, if he could,
the mystery of
her husband’s
fate, he went
to his death
tight -lipped.
Such men most-
ly do. Butler,
of N. S. Wales
notoriety, was
one instance.
And Westralia
had a predeces-
sor of Bowles
in a certain
Spargo, who
suffered the ex-
treme penalty
over 20 years
ago for decoy-
ing a fellow-
passenger on a
steamer ashore
at Broome, get-
ting him to take
a walk into the
scrub and cal-
lously shooting
him, subse-
quently draw-
ing his victim’s
money from the
savings bank by
forging his
name. Several
previous
acquaintances of
Spargo having
faded away and
left no trace,
the detectives
suspected that
he had made
something of a
habit of this
grisly business,
but not even
the knowledge
that he couldn’t
be hanged twice
availed to un-
lock the prison-
er’s lips; if he
had any other murderous secrets he carried
them to the grave with him. His only ante-
mortem request was that his pipe, a black-
ened briar from which he had extracted
much solace during his final weeks on earth,
should be buried with him. It was.
* ■ * * *
“Not Foxed”: A Sydney magistrate has
been objecting to the woi’d “merry” as in-
dicative of a certain stage in an inebriate's
progress. “Was he dancing in gay abandon?”
demanded his Worship scornfully. “Describe
him as drunk, or even ‘shot,’ if you like,
but ‘merry’—no.” Whereupon the witness
amended the term by substituting “a few
spots too much,” and the Beak nodded
understandingly. Nevertheless “merry” in
the sense of being mildly exhilarated by stimu-
lants is perfectly good English. If the
beak won’t accept the evidence of drinking
songs, he might turn to the works of Eden
Phillpotts, the novelist, who uses the term
“market-merry,” one with a special signifi-
cance for Devonshire farmers, over asd over
again.
“One Who Pays': Looks as if the Aus-
tralian Navy needed a Transport Co-ordina-
tion Act. Sitting near Mrs. Macquarie s
Chair the other Sunday I counted, in an
hour and a half, an expensive launch make
three trips and return from the Australia,
moored at Garden Island wharf, to Benelong
L’oint, and two to Elizabeth Bay; a slightly
less costly craft pass once from the Can-
berra to Benelong; a smaller launch do one
trip from Garden I. to Benelong and back; a
motor longboat, do the Garden I. -Benelong
run twice : a motor-tub big enough to hold
a platoon (but holding two sailors) go thrice
from the Canberra to Benelong and back,
and another launch run twice from Garden
I to shore bearing three men. -Most craft
SORTING THINGS OUT.
"Were you railed after your gran'ma?"
"Course I was. And gran'pa’s older'm I am, too.”
carried crew enough to row the. boat, but all
were power-driven —at high speed. A ten.'
called at Garden I. wharf twice during the
period, but without picking up any crush
of passengers. Assuming that a brass-hat
may not be seen dead in a boat which car-
ries ratings, is there a rule of naval eti-
quette which forbids two brass-hats to travel
in the same boat? A single launch could
have carried with ease every man the 11
trips transported. Moreover, I saw only the
landward movements of the mosquito flotilla;
Heaven knows how many trips were made
by petrol-burning craft from the other sine
of Garden I. and the Canberra, and from
the Platypus and parked destroyers in
Double and other bays.
“Chev.” : Vic. police are opposed to Mac-
farlan's suggestion (B. that
motorists should be fined for traffic breaches
on the spot, arguing that appearance m
court is a deterrent. It might _be so it
motorists did appear, but they don t. When
I received a summons for my one and only
breach— wrong parking-some misguided
friend told me that if I obeyed it the
magistrate would be flattered at the
attention paid him and would probably
let me off lightly or altogether. So I turned
up After fully a dozen cases had been dis-
posed of in the absence of the delinquents,
my name was called. When 1 answered the
beak nearly fell off his perch with surprise,
the police prosecutor looked annoyed and
the court officials seemed indignant at the
offence against precedent. I wasted no more
than 20 seconds of the Law’s time in explana-
tions but his Washup fined me a sarcastic
remark and 30 shillings, plus two and six-
pence costs. The non-appearers had all got.
oft with 225. Od.
“Innfekilling”: Touching the matter of
Lifeguards’ boots, “Centurion <l> 8/0/1
is wrong when he says “No one else m the
British Army may wear anything like them.
The Blues (the Horseguards) wear exactly
the same sort of boots and they too, of
course, mount guard at W hitehall.
“Whitehall” : The most senseless, uncom-
fortable and idiotic-looking article of cloth-
ing worn by any British soldier is neithei
the Lifeguardsman’s tin breastplate nor his
outsize topboots, but the Grenadier s bear-
skin This monstrous garment which m
nearly three feet high and resembles a com-
mon type of antheap as regards shape looks
absurd enough on an officer of heroic stature.
It comes down over the eyes and produces
the effect of a shaggy dog peering through
his hair. But. it does its deadliest work in
the way of bringing the Kings uniform into
contempt when worn by an undersized
Guardee. and many officers of tbe bngade
are small, wispy men these days It is also
a catastrophe on the hygienic side. I have
heard victims say that bearskins have been
responsible for more headaches than all the
whisky in the Guards Club. II the Wa.
Office is really making drastic changes m
army dress" this outrage should be the lust
to go.
“Pom”: The Lindbergh cast 1 has made
public what Scotland Yard lias been saying
privately for years, that the IT-S.A. police,
force is the most incompetent m the civil-
ised world. Whether the trouble is graft
admittedly rampant, in the great American
cities —or bad staff work, or stupidity
amongst the rank and file, the fact remains
that the tally of undiscovered murderers is
three or four times higher than in most
European countries. If the Lindbergh job
had been done in Austria or Germany, where
the standard of detection is highest, the kid-
nappers would probably have been arrested
inside a week. The authorities are slower
in England, where they work under greater
restrictions, but they usually get there in
the end. No prominent British killer has
o-one unpunished in the long run since Jack
the Ripper committed his murders over 40
vears ago. The futility of America’s regular
detective farce has led to two abuses— (1)
the third degree, which caused the Lind-
berghs' maid to commit suicide last week
after four “grillings.” on learning that she
was in for a fifth, and (2) Pinkerton’s. Pin-
kerton’s is a private detective agency of a
type that is often denounced by Australian
Judges. It employs the scientific experts
who are despised by the N. York and Chic-
ago “bulls,” and so often gets results; but
it has no official status, and many of its
stunts are illegal. It is an odd paradox
that two of America's leading moral forces,
prohibition and the police, should be respon-
sible between them for nearly all its worst
crimes.
“Cunegond” : The most determined suicide
is sometimes baffled. The other day an
attendant at the Albert Bark. Melbourne,
noticed a strange object suspended from a
tree. He hastened up and. finding a man
with a rope round his neck and apparently
dead, cut the corpse down and went for the
police. When he returned the body was gone.
Presently he saw a figure walking rapidly
towards the lake. He interrogated the
stranger and satisfied himself, partly by evi-
dence of rope pressure on the neck, that it
was his acquaintance of the tree. The return
trip of the mortuary van was made to the
watchhouse instead of to the morgue.
“Kerys”: There is an elderly woman in
Sydney who becomes voluble when you men-
tion buried treasure. During the war years,
when sovereigns were steadily rising in
value, she withdrew 25 from the bank, and,
distrustful of a husband inclined to inebriety,
placed her hoard in a tin and buried it
darkly by night in the cabbage patch. A ext
morning in getting out of bed she fell and
broke a thigh; then she spent 11 months m
hospital and another year with relatives con-
valescing. After that, having now become
a widow, she went to her old home to re-
trieve her treasure. A row of new shops
had covered the site, and although they all
had extensive yards and the old lady offered
A BIT BOTH WAFS.
"What a lot of men owe their success in
life to their wives!”
"Yes. But I think more owe their wives to
their success in life!"
r generous share of the cash to any finder,
the tin has never been discovered. Ihe local
theory is that during building operations
workmen chanced on the cache and silently
whacked it up.
“Centurion'’: One of the bitterest experi-
ences of the Light Horsemen in the S-inai-
Falestine campaign was parting with
their cherished horses when the time
came to return to Australia. It is well-
known that many men shot their mounts
sooner than see them delivered to the tender
mercies of Arab and Egyptian owners, and
in addition many were destroyed on the
recommendation of the vets. Recent re-
ports from Egypt show that there are still
some 500 horses, veterans of the which
ended nearly 14 years ago, dragging out, a
miserable existence in Egypt. Some ot them
are British mounts, and a committee, headed
bv Lord Lonsdale, is raising funds to re-
purchase these for destruction. A few have
alreadv been put out of their misery The
surviving Australians will, presumably, be
included with their British confreres m the
deliverance.
A SONG OF WINTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Now we face the months notorious for the
biting blasts of Boreas —
A poetic if laborious synonym for
Winter’s grip— , . . ,
The inhospitable season to be viewed ask-
ance, with reason,
When you’re caught in grim Depression s
universal fellowship.
Still, at least, there’s one emphatic compen-
sation for climatic
Iligars, piercing winds erratic, frosts that
pinch and doors that bang.
One relief, as though she thought us tried
too sorely, June has brought us, ,
One calamity that’s weathered —-thank the
Lord we’ve outed Lang!
Now deciduous trees have shed their leaves
and, looking stark and dead there,
Wait the kindly ministrations of rejuven-
ating suns. .
But there’s comfort in recalling other tilings
have, too, been falling
With a thud (to them) appalling—Elys,
Tullys, Goslings, Dunns.
Now the parks reveal concerted shortage or
attractions skirted,
And the beaches arc deserted and the birds
are gone that sang;
Still, the scenery’s dejection can’t destroy
the glad reflection
That a general election’s cooked the goose
of Mr. Lang.
Now the garden’s glories deaden, and the
skies that wont to redden
Eve on eve too oft are leaden, and the
orb of Phoebus hid;
And I confidently venture to assert the malt-
browed quencher
That the ultra-righteous censure hardly
holds the joy it did.
Now a more insistent hunger regularly grips
the younger,
An indubitable hardship, if you’ve ever
felt the pang.
THE WISDOM OF SHAKSPEARE.
HAMLET (making heavy weather of it): “The play’s the thing.”
SOZZLED PATRON: “’Sh qw" right, of feller; zh actors ain’t worzh
mention’ng.”
Still, the orphan and the widow should be
gainers, malgre “Piddo,”
By the crash of him who wept tor (even
while he bilked) them Lang.
Now the saint and eke the sinner need a
trifle more of dinner
For the stoking of that inner man, ot
whom in phrase we tell,
Say, of stew a steaming plateful —and an
extra blanket’s grateful,
And a slight increase of clobber for the
outer man as well. ,
Yes, from coast to nippy hinterland its
winter, winter, winter,
Season of whose discontentments Sliaks-
peare graphically sang•
But I see some compensations for its patent
tribulations .
Now one incubus has lifted piaisc ihc
Lord we’re rid of Lang!
Sf.S.W.
T. THE R.


“II.S.”: An elderly lady was in front of
me at the Darlinghurst polling-place. She
first held a long muddled colloquy with a
scrutineer, and then tried to put her how-to-
vote card in the ballot-box. Checked in this
she wandered off, but came back in a second
or two to say she had dropped her how-to-
vote card. Someone gave her a Labor card
—picked up from the floor—and she went
off again and presumably voted Labor,
though when first seen she had a Levy card.
It should have been impossible for anyone
not a congenital imbecile to make a mis-
take at the last N. S. Wales election. At
every booth there were people to find the
electors’ numbers and write them on marked
cards. A normal child of seven should have
been able to do the rest. Yet at Manly there
were 400 informal votes, at Newtown
424. at Phillip 534, and so on. Under a
rational social system these people, far from
AFTER THE MATINEE.
“They say she owes everything to her
teacher.”
“Yes. But I’m told she hasn’t paid, her
dressmaker either.”
being compelled to' vote, would be forbidden
to vote. That Darlinghurst lady can be no
better than a permanent spanner in the
machinery of government.
* .*!•• * *
“F.S.”: Some educationists have queer
ideas about their job. The Melbourne
“Herald” recently instituted a specially diffi-
cult crossword puzzle competition with a
time limit for contestants. To the painful
surprise of people who hold normal views
about the purpose of education, the winner
was Frank Tate. ex-Director of Victorian
Schools, and a runner-up was Mr. Mcßae,
the present Deputy Director. Both gentle-
men highly praised the “Herald's” enter-
prise. and hoped that this aid to intel-
lectual development would be continued. I
am reminded of the English schoolteacher
who asked her pupils for a sentence contain-
ing the word “veil.” One retorted with
“She wore a veil on her deuterogamy.”
“Where did you get that word?” asked the
teacher. “From a crossword puzzle,” said
the damsel. “But what does it mean?”
“Second marriage, Miss.” Teacher looked
up the dictionary and found the definition
was correct.
“Wig”: The disgruntled husband who hits
back, from the grave at his spouse by an
insulting refex-ence to her in his will is
growing rare nowadays, but a case cropped
up in Victoria recently where a testator of
considerable means left the wife of his
bosom five shillings (only) “to
purchase a book to write down
all the lies she has told about
me.” In some of tin; States,
notably N.S.W., legislation has
made action of this kind impos-
sible. Elsewhere in British
Dominions the latter-day rule has
been to interpret wills as liber-
ally as possible—as the law in-
deed enjoins. In the Melbourne
case the Judge took the modern
view and fixed a compromise with
the executors under which the
widow takes the customary third
of the estate, the children shar-
ing the balance.
si; * ❖
“Soundings”: If all goes well,
the end of the summer on tin-
other side of the world should
see some of the Lusitania mys-
teries cleared up. Captain Railey,
who proposes to explore the sun-
ken vessel by means of a steel
tube, down which the salvage
party can descend from the sea
surface, has left New York with
the necessary equipment and the
construction of the tube is now
proceeding. One queer outcome
of the scheme is the smothering
of the intending salvagers with
’ special commissions. One of the
rescued passengers had a £20,000
necklace in the purser’s safe
when the torpedoed vessel went
down, and she has high hopes of
its recovery. Among many other
commissions is one from Captain
Turney, who was in command at
.lie time of the sinking. He wants his sex-
tant from the chartroom, where it has lain
for 17 years.
“S.T.S.”: Gone to the ships’ cemetery in
the little-used north arm of Port Adelaide
river, the Dorothy 11. Sterling, a three-masted
sailer. She came to the Port in 1929, was
attached for debts; sold, and stripped of all
useful effects, the Harbors Board collaring
masts and spars for dues unpaid.
“D..T.”: I was sorry to read that Miss
Wilson, daughter of Queensland’s new Gov-
ernor, “walked into the enclosure at Rand-
wick smoking a cigarette.” Bona fide cigar-
ette-addicts, male or female, are as unobjec-
tionable as hona fide drinkers or gamblers.
They may shock
some, but they
embarrass none,
their actions be-
ing natural. The
bogus addict, on
the other hand,
is a source of
shame to saints
and sinners
alike; and per-
haps the most
painful specimen
of the breed is
the bogus cigar-
ette-fiend (femi-
nine variety). If
a girl likes smok-
ing she likes it a
lot, and can be
identified at con-
siderable dis-
tances by anyone
who hasn’t lost
the senses of
smell and sight.
Not so the ama-
teur or part-time
smoker. Sh e
hates it. You
see her at a
party picking up
a cigarette as if
it was a snake.
She sets fire to it
awkwardly, gives
a few revolted
puffs, and seizes
the first chance
to furtively jetti-
son it. The
same at golf, on board yachts, in taxis and
at hotels. She is the butt-collector’s best
friend. Why does she smoke at all? For
the simple reason that girls like Miss Wilson
do. That fatal gesture at Randwick will
be read of in thousands of Sydney homes,
and for weeks, aye, months to come fat-
headed wenches will be arousing black
hatred in the breasts of their menfolk and
others by cadging gaspers and making
affected asses of themselves in public.
“Jeames” : A Sydney Registrar and a Lon-
donised insolvent found themselves at cross-
purposes recently. Some passages :
If you had an income of £3OOO a year, why did
you not pay?—Probably it was not convenient.
Did you have any intention of ever paying?—
Most decidedly. But one does not always pay one’s
accounts promptly. Sometimes it is not convenient.
Did you owe £l3 for laundry?—l should think
so, yes.
When you returned to Sydney from London, did
you pay?—No.
Why not?—l really don’t know. I expect it was
not convenient.
It expresses the traditional Mayfair atti-
tude towards tradesmen which the Victorian
novelists revealed in characters like Raw-
don Crawley. Briefly the theory w r as that
counterjumpers w T crc knaves who should
be glad of the chance to serve their
betters. Every man of breeding owed money,
and treated it as a joke. I had a £2OOO-a-
-year acquaintance whose sitting-room in
.Termyn-street was literally papered with
writs and judgment summonses. He never
paid till his bank account was garnisheed or
a committal order to Holloway was issued
against him. Before the war about 25 per
cent, of the customers of West End trades-
men didn’t find it convenient to pay at all,
a convention which accounted for the out-
rageous prices asked of those who did pay.
According to a recent issue of the “Tailor
and Cutter” Mayfair’s non-payers are now
down to ]0 per cent., but I doubt it. These
good old British customs die hard.
“F.S.”: I note that Helen Simpson, the
Australian authoress who wrote “Boom-
erang,” has been touring the “vampire coun-
try” of Austria and Hungary, where the
foolish “Dracula” was placed, in search of
sinister material for her next book. In the
WITHDRAWAL.
“And did the t.-p. people apologise for sending you that horrible letter about the
furniture?”
“Well, not in words, y'know; but they sent and took it all back.”
gloorny Brocken she attended an attempt to
turn a he-goat into a beautiful youth, but.
something went wrong with the works and
the goat remained a goat. Miss Simpson says
it is impossible to dismiss all the tales of
witchcraft as false, and cites stories she heard
of evil spirits which leave tracks in the snow,
though they are themselves invisible, and
of corpses that remained incorruptible be-
cause they were the prey of vampires. Miss
Simpson need not have gone so far in search
of the marvellous. She could have found
all these beliefs, with local variations,
amongst Australian aboriginals or in up-
country villages in Ceylon, Malaya or New
Guinea. I knew an old gentleman who
obtained a pelesit, or familiar spirit, by dig-
ging up a dead baby in a Javanese cemetery
and cutting off its thumb. After the neces-
sary incantations had been said the thumb
came to life. He used it for scourging people
he didn’t like with inexplicable diseases,
such as indigestion and housemaid’s knee.
He kept the thing in a Bryant and May’s
wax vesta box, and fed it from a prick in his
arm. He showed it to me one day, and when
I said it looked exactly like a cricket he
said it alwrnys looked like that to people
who didn’t believe.
“C.Q.” : Unless drastic action is taken the
celebration of Melbourne’s centenary may
involve bloodshed. A historian of my ac-
quaintance has documents to prove that
Batman was the founder of the cultural
centre of the Com-
monwealth. Another
historian, of equal re-
pute and vehemence,
has documents to
prove that Fawkner
was the founder. He
laughs scornfully
when Batman’s name
i s mentioned, an d
points out that Bat-
man selected Fisher-
man’s Bend on the
south bank of the
Yarra as the proper
site. He further
points out that Fawk-
ner was the first to
plant a flag, or at any
rate a pub, on the
north bank, where the
proud city now stands,
whereas the other
party didn’t do
any planting at all,
but faded away, after
having bought a
couple of prairies and
a range of mountains
from the natives for
the price of a pair of
old boots. The Bat-
manite avers that his
fancy beat Fawkner
by three months and
must therefore be
awarded the prize, if
any. When I con-
veyed this statement
to a third historian,
he asserted that if
time and not place
were the essence of
the contract. Bieut. Col-
lins, the Hentys and
numerous others beat
both Fawkner and
Batman out of hand.
It would be a sad
thing if the Batman
centenary celebrations
were broken up by in-
furiated Fawknerites
and the Fawkner fes-
tivities, three months
afterwards, were
spoiled by iconoclas-
tic Batmanites. The
best compromise I can suggest is that the
moucy collected for the fireworks, food and
statues that are to -be fired off, eaten and
erected in memory of the two pioneers should
he put into a fund and the fund used to
remove the disgraceful slums that their suc-
cessors have built.
“Chevroford” : Melbourne’s notorious Wel-
lington-parade safety zone, which began its
career as a plain white line painted on the
ground and has progressed by stages until it
looks like a cross between the Gabo light-
house and the State Theatre, has just scored
its 18th official victory over the motorist.
Melbourne City Council spent £l7O on the
latest installation, which includes a 10-foot
tower with “Zone” in illuminated letters at
the top and a flashing amber light at the
bottom. Since making the thing conspicu-
ous has failed there are a few alternatives
that might be considered. An inclined way
would carry vagrant motor-cars over the top
of the pedestrians and a tunnel would take
them underneath equally harmlessly. A
better idea would be for the Tramways
Board to admit that trams in the middle of
a modern thoroughfare are an absurd ana-
chronism, and that in other cities the rail-
less tram has solved the problem both for
tram-users and motorists by bringing the
public vehicle to> the kerbstone.
* :!: * *
“Strict Veg.”: A strange story was told
in a Melbourne court recently. The wife of
an elderly .showman was delivered of a still-
born child in a hospital during her hus-
band’s absence. Having been informed by
a doctor that she could never be a mother,
she was deeply concerned, as her husband
had set his heart on having a child. She
waited until he had gone away on another
tour, happy in her assurance that his wish
would soon be realised. Then she went to
a Salvation Army home and secured a male
infant. In due course hubby returned and
rejoiced with her over the supposed fruit
of their union. The baby was registered,
and all would have gone well if the showman
had not insisted on his wife applying for the
maternity bonus. The official sleuths discov-
GONE, BUT NOT FORGOTTEN.
“My word, Brown’s a good deal fatter since his wife died."
“Yes, that’s the stone he’s put up to her memory.”
ered the fraud, and brought the usual charge.
It was alleged in evidence that the husband
was still unaware that he was not the
parent of the child. A sympathetic Bench
sentenced the lady to four weeks’ imprison-
ment, to be suspended on accused enteidng into
a £lO bond to be of good behavior for a year.
THESE SPACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I hear them sing the charm of spaces wide,
Great open spaces, westing to the sun
Who marks their only bounds as day is
done,
Somewhere on Never-Never’s other side;
Where care-free horsemen care-free horses
ride
And dust-begrimed sundowners, one by
one,
With knowledge vast of river, road and
run,
Loom on the homestead track at eventide.
At shanties-on-the-rise strong drink men
quaff,
The emu, strolls through scrub and salt-
bush plains,
The jesting kookaburras really laugh
And bush bards feel poetic growing pains.
Forgive me, bards! I sometimes think I
trace
Your lair to Collins-street or Gawler-place.
All distant fields are green, though brown
and bare;
The hand that’s elsewhere dealt holds all
the aces.
Nearer at hand I find the pleasant places.
A little creek meanders here and there,
The wanton briars weave a thorny stair
About the boles of trees whose shady
graces
Fend off the ardent sun and curious faces,
While pushing to the high and rarer air.
Far off the mellowed tones of Sabbath bell.
Nearer the sounds of water, bee and bird.
Weaving for me imagination’s spell,
Like that which all those way-back poets
stirred.
Content with pipe and dog I lay me down
In a sheltered space quite handy to the town.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


WINTER 1932
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
S 12 72
PERSONAL
ITEMS
They made three Judges in N.S.W. last
week, and all of them local products —-J. A.
Browne, K.C., the son of a farmer, of Gren-
fell ; F. S. Boyce, Iv.C., son of the late
archdeacon, born near Roekley: A. M.
Webb, .son of a firefighter, brought up at
brigade headquarters in Sydney. Browne
was a State schoolteacher for 10 years, and
is a sound Equity man. Boyce, though never
put among the great lawyers, is a fine man
Avith a jury—chiefly because of his strong
commonsense.
John Quick died last Aveek at SO; and that
left only tAvo men Avho were front-rank mem-
bers of the Federal Convention—Josiah
Symon (S.A.) and present Governor-General
Isaacs (Vic.). Quick didn’t shine greatly
in the debates —lie Avas no orator —but there
wasn’t a member Avho knew more of the sub-
ject. and it Avas he who had proposed the
National Convention. Quick had no advant-
ages to start with: and in his middle years
he was a spasmodic worker. But he was
a glutton for toil Avlien lie did get doAvn to
it, and the youngster avlio left school to
Avork on the mines at 10 or 11 was a short-
hand writer at 16, an LL.D. at 27 and an
M.L.A. at 28. He sat in the House of Reps,
for 13 years ; but, again losing his hold on
Bendigo, he Avent back to’ the Bar—where
he had never been a conspicuous success—
and was later made deputy-president of the
Federal Arbitration Court.
Bendigo “Advertiser” had three young-
sters on its staff 50-odd years ago—Cunning-
ham, Quick and Schuler. All of them turned
toAvards Melbourne about the same time,
two of them to go on the “Age,” the other
on the “Argus.” Graham Berry persuaded
one of them, Quick, to push into politics;
Ihe other two stuck to their job—Schuler
to become editor of the “Age,” Cunningham
editor of the “Argus.” Schuler died four
years ago; now only Cunningham is left.
He retired from the chair, after 24 years’
service, two years ago, but is still on the
board.
When the Queensland Labor Caucus met
at the end of last week it soon killed the
story that Forgan Smith would go to Lon-
don as Agent-General, leaving Percy Pease
as Premier. Smith takes with the Premier-
ship the heavy jobs of Treasurer and Chief
Sec. ; his deputy takes Lands. Pease, born
PERCY PEASE , Deputy-Premier of
Queensland.
in England, was brought to Queensland as a
youngster, and has been in the North cvet-
si nee ’B6. He won Herbert a dozen years
ago, and has had no difficulty in keeping it.
Queensland’s Labor Ministers arc mostly
newcomers to office, though all have sat
in previous Parliaments. Jack Dash,
Minister for Transport, is a prominent
A.W.U. man and Avas secretary of tire de-
funct Australian Workers’ Association,
founded long ago by Theodore. He Avas born
at Blackall, on the Barcoo; his dad was
a local identity and popular with all sorts
and conditions of men. E. M. Hanlon, the
Home Secretary, comes from Ithaca. He Avas
a railwayman, and with Mick Kirwan Avas a
founder of the Queensland Railway Union;
after serving with the A.1.F., he entered Par-
liament in 1926. M. P. Hynes represents
Towns\ r ille and takes on Labor and Industry.
Bulcock, who sits for Barcoo, is to look after
Agriculture and Stock, and knows something
about the latter at least. Cooper, the elect
of Bremer, takes over Public Instruction,
and Bruce, member for Kennedy, will look
after Public Works.
Death of R. S. Taylor has brought about
changes on the staff of the Brisbane
“Courier.” McKinnon, who was assistant
editor, becomes editor; David Georgeson,
news and assistant editor; and T. W. Bain,
principal leader-writer.- J. T. Gray, for-
merly leading Government roundsman, is
now chief of staff.
A. M. Webb was Sydney’s luckiest young
man last week. Holding the modest job of
Industrial Registrar, he was lifted on to
the Industrial Commission with the status
and pay of a Supreme Court Judge. Still,
he may do very well there; he seems to have
the judicial temperament. His father was
chief oflicer of Sydney Fire Brigades for
New Industrial Commissioner WEBB
(N.S.W.).
many years ; and it was something of a coin-
cidence that when Du'nningham was appointed
Minister for Labor, he found his life-
long friend’s son chief clerk of the depart-
ment. Besides being a barrister (LL.B.),
Mr. Webb holds a Sydney Uni. diploma in
economics and commerce.
John Walter Gregory, who was
drowned last, week while on an expedition
in northern Peru, was Professor of Geology
and Mineralogy during 1900-04 at Melbourne
University. It was during that period that
his study of Australian geological conditions
led him to write “The Dead Heart of Aus-
tralia,” a book that raised much controversy.
During part of his stay in this country he
was also Director of Geological Surveys for
the Victorian Mines Department. Gregory’s
travels and researches were practically world-
wide ; his most elaborate achievement was
the theory of the formation of the great lake
chain of East Africa, a theory he embodied
and amplified in his famous work “The
Great Rift Valley.” Born in London in
1864, it was fitting that he should have been
educated at Bow. His first start in life was
in the wool business.
Lord Wenlock, whom Westralia knew as
Governor Sir Arthur Lawley 30 years
ago, is dead. An amiable soul, he left
a name-mark or two in Groperland—-
Mount Lawley is one of Perth’s fore-
most residential suburbs, and Lady Law-
ley’s Cottage-by-the-Sea at Fremantle still
testifies to vice-regal interest in the
fresh-air movement when it was first
started in the State. The barony of Wen-
lock only came to the ex-Governor a few
months before his death at 72; he was the
youngest of four brothers to hold it in suc-
cession, the first three all dying without
male heirs. The last baron left two daugh-
ters only, so with him the peerage probably
becomes extinct.
Vic. Parliamentary Cockies have re-elected
Allan leader and Dunstan deputy-leader.
Both are in the Argyle Cabinet. Allan first
came into the Legislative Assembly 15 years
ago with a following of four. One of these,
P. G. Stewart, died an M.H.R. last year;
the other three, Joe Hall, D. H. Gibson and
I. J. Weaver, are out of politics.
If mosquitoes ever cease to worry Bris-
bane the credit will belong to Dr. Hamlyn
Harris, City Entomologist. Ilis efforts are
gradually Avakening the people to the fact
that some effort is required on their part
before success can be attained. Since 1926
Harris lias delivered over 1000 lectures on
the subject, as well as attending to other
publicity matters and routine office work.
He graduated D.Sc. from Queensland and
Tubingen Universities, and was a science
master at Toowoomba Grammar School and
the Southport School for some years. He
has also been Director of the Queensland
Museum, and distinguished himself in the
hookworm campaign in Queensland. That
his present work is successful is indicated by
the fact that in two Brisbane cemeteries a
few years ago 94.7 and 60 per cent, re-
spectively of the graves were breeding mos-
quitoes. The same cemeteries to-day are
breeding mosquitoes in only 2.1 and .9 per
cent, of the graves.
Andy Lysaght, once Attorney-General,
owns the solitary beard in the new N.S.W.
Assembly.
Dr. Allan Callaghan, who at 27 becomes
head of Roseworthy (S.A.) Agricultural Col-
lege, took a B.Sc. (first-class in agriculture)
at Sydney, went as a N.S.W. Rhodes scholar
to Oxford, and there won the very rare
Doctor of Philosophy degree with his writ-
ing on oats. He was born at Bathurst, and
has latterly been on the Wagga (N.S.W.) ex-
perimental farm. South AuS. Government saw
in him also a strong character to deal with
the Roseworthy students, who have got a bit
out of hand lately.
Tom Elder Barr Smith is one of South
Australia’s very few really wealthy men, and
he has a wide popularity that does not
always go with wealth. Son of one of the
founders of Elder, Smith and Co., and
nephew of the other, he has worked hard
ever since Cambridge days, and is chairman
of directors of that and other concerns. But
outside of business he is always happier at
one of his two country homes than in the
city. His latest big gift is a whole library-
building for the University, his father and
family having given a big proportion of the
books in it. He has a grown-up family, and
probably not an enemy in the world.
Dead suddenly at Aulaby station (S.A.),
H. H. Dutton, aged 58, a noted stockbreeder,
and one of the very few landowners keeping-
up the English country-squire tradition in
the southern State. He rowed in the Oxford
eight of 1900, and in 1908 made, with
Murray Aunger, the first motor-run across
Australia from Adelaide to Darwin.
F. G. Read, solicitor, who has died in
Melbourne, was for 23 years five sole trustee
of the estate which owns the Edments
chain stores. Under his administration the
concern grew from £BB,OOO to £1,000,000
in value. One-fourth of the estate, held in
perpetuity for charities, drew £lO,OOO last
year. Very unobtrusively Read attended
to this big business and carried on his
other legal work at Temple Court. Three
sons—one a med. and the other two lawyers
—survive him.
Died last month in Loudon, Miss Agnes
Bowen, daughter of Sir George Bowen, first
Governor of Queensland (1859-68). The
old lady, a hospitable, charitable soul, was
always proud of being Australian-born; dur-
ing the war years she was an active member
of a committee that looked after overseas
officers. The town of Bowen is named after
her father and Roma after her mother, an
Italian, whose maiden name was Diamante
di Roma.
“Hail Columbia” HOOVER, formerly of
Westralia, now President of the UN.A.,
and again chosen by an overwhelming
majority to be Democratic candidate—
which means an almost certain re-
election.
Archie Litchfield, who has just retired
from the S. Aus. railway service, was a
stationmaster for 50 years, and his father
and grandfather were s.m.’s before him.
He was in charge of Riverton when Percy
Bi’ookfield, Labor M.L.A. for Broken Hill,
was shot dead while trying to prevent a
running-amok foreigner from killing or
maiming a platform full of people off the
Broken Hill express. Litchfield’s first sta-
tion was Mt. Lofty, which he opened when
he was 16.
A. A. DUNSTAN, M.L.A., Vic.’s new
Minister for Lands.
Brigadier-General Tom Griffiths, who will
temporarily take the place of the retir-
ing Administrator of Mandated New Guinea,
is no stranger to the job, which he held down
during 1920-21, transferring to the overlord-
ship of Nauru Island,* where he remained
until 1927. Many thousands of the A.I.F.
will recall him as Commandant at llorse-
ferry-road. Born in Wales in ISG2,
he entered the State permanent forces
in Victoria in 1888, transferring to the
C. in due course. In the war he
was an.original Anzac, and held many im-
portant staff jobs subsequently in France
and England, while for a time after his
return to Australia he was Inspector-Gen-
eral of Defence Administration. His deco-
rations include the C.M.G., C.B.E. and
D.
.T. F. Bailey is making one more change
from Adelaide to Brisbane. He grew up
in “Bailey’s garden” in the southern city,
migrated with his father to the Botanic
Gardens of the northern one, and returned
long after as Director of the Gardens in
Adelaide. Now. , much farewelled by flower-
lovers in the Holy City, he retires to live
in Brisbane.
Queensland Presbyterians’ new Modera-
tor, Rev. Thomas Harvey, is an Irishman
who came to Queensland 25 years ago and
took up missionary work in the North. He
qualified for the ministry shortly before the
war; he thereupon joined the Y.M.C.A. and
worked for it in half a dozen countries; later
he served the A.I.F. as a padre. After his
return to Queensland he put in four years
as organiser for the Presbyterian Soldiers’
Memorial, and became chairman of the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission.
Died recently at Port Moresby (Papua),
Ruby Pearl Armit. fourth daughter of Cap-
tain Armit, who led the “Argus” exploring
expedition into the Owen Stanley Range
nearly 50 years ago. Miss Armit had resided
most of her life in the territory with which
her family has been connected so long. Two
brothers, L. P. B. and R. E. L. Armit,
and a sister, Mrs. P. H. Leigh, are
the three survivors of the family that crossed
the Coral Sea from Cooldown (Q.) 38 years
ago in the steam yacht Merrie England,
whose broken timbers lie on the coral reef
outside the entrance to Port Moresby.
The passing of .Tames Johnstone, C.E., at
his seaside home, White Lodge. Sandringham
(Vic.), at 82, has recalled that it was be
who carried out the survey of the line from
Adelaide to Mount Lofty (S.A.) and con-
vinced the responsible people above him that
it was the best, tunnels and all. It also
fell to him to lay out, the break-of-gauge
station at Terowie. He qualified in the Vic.
railway dept. Between 180(1 and 1871 ho
made rowing a hobby, and was stroke of
the Melb. Uni. crew which defeated Sydney
’Varsity 01 years ago.
From bank-manager to hotelkeeper was
the unusual progress of W. J. Humphries,
dead in Adelaide at 05. In the gold-boom
of the ’nineties, he was manager for the
IV. A. Bank at Southern Cross and York,
and became branch-inspector; after which
he retired to his native S.A. and a more
profitable occupation.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital . . . . . . . . . . £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . # £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted .. .. Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kernbla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
EXPLOSIVES
AL.lj kinds stocked.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
r-’—Dividends —■, Writ-
Govt.’s Old. ten
March, Profits. Divs. 13$ p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 652.043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £ 148,112 2,395,069
inner reserves disclosed .. 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on ne.v shares 3,454 2,682,988
1924.. 735,832 137.436 349,871 2,831,513
1925.. 819.286 162,500 400.000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,610
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14$ p.c. 7$ p.c.
1927. . 847,671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,21 S 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
Since 1928 Maoriland’s export price-index
lias dropped over 40 p.c., notwithstanding a
spring of 10 p.c. in exchange; other prices
and costs have fallen about 10 p.c. Thus
there has been much dislocation of business,
widespread unemployment, loss of profits,
growth of bad debts, derangement of the
public accounts and heavy increases in taxa-
tion. To relieve the position a committee
of economists .appointed by the Government
prescribed a combination of (1) a little
inflation by lifting the internal price-level
through the exchange, and (2) reductions in
wages, salaries, interest and all fixed charges.
The first proposal was rejected, but the
second one was adopted ; and legislation has
been passed providing for a 20 p.c. cut in
rents and interest on mortgages, etc., pro-
vided the rate is not reduced below 5 ptc.,
and the Courts have been given power, on
application of the mortgagor, to postpone
payments of both principal and interest for
two years. Thus, besides a sharp contrac-
tion in exchange and other earnings, the
bank’s need to provide substantially for
contingencies increased. So the year’s gross
earnings were written £238,726 short of the
1931 figure:—
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1920 .. £1,376,838 £430,109 £456,484
1924 . . 1,709,289 562.596 389,661
1926 .. 1,888,309 600,068 354,882
1927 . . 1,830,881 611,270 350,740
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1929 . . 1,916,600 648,581 333,866
1930 .. 2,013,526 684,745 359,048
1931 .. 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
1932 .. 1,770,686 659,629 502,835
*Less provision for contingencies.
Exes, were £36,886 lighter, but there was a
spring of £56,951 in the tax bill, making the
slip in the declared net result £258,791.
After attending to the pref. and mortgage-
share requirements (together £280,469)
enough remained to show 8.1 p.c. on the
£3,750.000 of ord. capital as against 15
17.8, 16.9, 15.6, 16.4, 18.7 and 2L9 p.c. back
to 1925. Still the usual 141 p.c. was dis-
tributed. though visible reserves had to be
tapped for £230,946 to do it.
That _ may suggest that there was more
wheat in the ear than the eye could see.
Nevertheless, maintenance of the 144 p.c. div.
is not looked for. On the Australian market
the pound ords. are priced at 425. as against
sos. a year ago. Allowing for the final div.
and for exchange at the current rate, the
return at 425. would be 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p c
div. basis; at the Wellington (M.L.) price
°f 435., the yield there would be 4.8 p.c on
a 10 p.c. distribution. On capital as it now'
stands, and allowing for the new statutory
cut (20 p.c. on the prefs.), the A, D and C
pref. divs. plus 10 p.c. on the B and ord
shares wbuld call for nearly £592,000, or
5.7 p.c. on total funds (capital and reserves
combined).
The year’s adverse trade conditions and the
bank’s own strength are further reflected in
balance-sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1920.. £5,765,337 £3,708,305 £37,661 611
1924.. 4,072,101 3,368,426 30,601>20
1926.. 4.444,392 3,721,791 31,121 288
1927.. 3.765,593 4,016,265 29,664’024
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897 609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,665,843
Assets.
In „_ „ liquid. Advances. Premises.
Ino?'' £33,120,009 £19,431,848 £361,108
1924.. 26,011,290 20,128,292 362 474
26,482,848 22,662,697 484^103
*927. ■ 23,897,114 23,924,980 520,877
1928. • 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929. . 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 .29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
Thus a contraction of £758.842 in deposits
and ot £628,750 in the bills figures was
accompanied by a reduction of £2,746 802
in advances and a growth of £1,571.090 in
uquids. According to the last quarterly
returns over _ 62 p.c. of the deposits are
interest bearing as against 49 p.c. three
years ago. To ease the pressure rates paid
tor deposits have been reduced by one half
ot one per cent, as from June 1. When the
books closed liquids amounted to 61.5 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public; and the bank
lvas holding £3 16s. sd. of outside money,
excluding debentures, for every pound of its
own funds.
The loan recently raised by the Dominion
on t.ie London market has reduced the Gov-
ernment’s exchange requirements, and, with
the trade balance as it is, an early lift in
tlie exchange rate is not favored by the Gov-
ernment, which is revoking the pool regula-
tions at the end of this month, thus creating
a tree market for exchange.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Paid Capital. Net Profit.
3 larch, £ £
1920 .. 276,005 51,106
1921 . . 442,489 65,524
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
f Dividends , Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,675 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment . . 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. = 77,570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 „ ~ 80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 163,799 15,750 10 „ ~ 91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 „ ~93,048 76,070 342,764
1929.. 207,952 15,750 124 „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff Fund, £2500 .. .. .. 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 12ip.c.=116,310 55,194 471,350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
1932.. 92,137 15,750 7$ „ ~ 69,786 6,601 483,141
*l4 months.
The tariff, enterprising management and
technical and other efficiency have combined
to give the eo. a tight hold'upon its market
throughout the _ Commonwealth and Maori-
land. Thus, with the quick development of
the business and the profits therefrom, the
scrip _ became one of the most popular in-
dustrials on the Stock Exchange. Antici-
pation of extra benefits sent the pound ords.
from 275. in 1925 to 61s. in September, 1929.
A year later the figure had flopped to 235.
Slump caught the co. with heavy stocks,
built up in anticipation of demand, and the
div. (10 p.c., with a 24 p.c. bonus added
in ’29 and ’3O) dropped to 6 p.c. in 1931.
But the absence of severe competition has en-
abled the management to unload without
much damage, and, as the trading and poli-
tical outlook became less obscure, the price
climbed steadily to 365. early in May. It
shot up to 395. 6d., following the dismissal of
the Lang Government, and has remained
fairly steady since.
At 395. 6d. the return is 3.8 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis, or a shade over 5 p.c.
should the distribution be lifted to 10 p.c.
again—the last final payment was at the
rate of 9 p.c. p.a. The 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
(175,000 of them, which enjoy priority as to
capital) return 5.6 p.c. at 325. On capital
as it now stands, the pref. div. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. would call for £108,797, or
6.S p.c. on total funds (capital and reserves
combined). Last year’s net earnings were
5.8 p.c. on those funds as against 4.8, 12.1,
14 and 13.1 p.c. back to 1928. Gross earn-
ings (£283,706) sprang £45,037, and exes.
(£191,569. including something for taxation
and contingencies) took £29,66S of tlie
increase.
The co., which is splendidly equipped to
benefit from any further improvement in
conditions, lias made the most of oppor-
tunities the tariff afforded it. New processes
have been installed as discovered to the
benefit of costs, and liberal allowances have
been made for depreciation, etc. At the
close of last March the book value of fixed
assets was £239,135 less than at the close
of accounts in 1924, despite substantial
additions meanwhile:—
1924. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities .. 87,507 76,183* 109,461*
Land and buildings 206,067 174,096 180,043
Machinery & plant 451,364 261,770 238,253
Stocks .. .. 316,225 419,634 371,156
Book debts . . 127,901 174,188 265,362
Cash, investments,
etc. . . . . 18,816 549,802 578,514
“provision tor taxation.”
Finances are obviously snug, though the real
liquid position is obscured by tlie lumping, of
shares in subsidiaries, etc., with money at
call, the lot up £28,712 during tlie year.
The spring of £91,174 in debtors' balances
and a further reduction of £48,478 in the
stocks item look encouraging.
No hint is given as to how the Crown
Crystal Co., the subsidiary which, turns out
blown, pressed and cut glass, is getting on.
Conditions in the building trade have altered
prospects for the manufacture of sheet glass,
for which plant has been installed.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Towards
April, Profit. Dividend & Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 16,381 lOp.c. = 9~562 6819 1,859
1923.. 19,842 15 „ „ 14,343 5499 3,640
Reserves.
1924.. 19,388 15 „ „ 13,781 5607 9,247
, Dividend N
1925.. 19,455 15 p.e. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17,708 12$ „ „ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 12J „ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 124 ~ „ 11,250 5374 30.552
1929.. 15,582 12$ „ „ 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8 „ „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ ~ 9,599 1078 34,350
Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56,447
1932.. 7,987 5$ p.e. = 8,797 55,037
More than half the £191,382 at which
advances now appear has been put out since
the close of accounts in 1928. That year
wool averaged £25 4s. 9d. per bale (Aus-
tralian) ; the figure was £ll os. 4d. for the
11 months to the end of May; and there
has been just as steep a decline in prices
for sheep, cattle and hides. Thus the div.,
which dropped from 15 p.e. to 12| p.e. in
1926, when drought and the loss of the
Brisbane agency for the Orient Line affected
the figures, fell to 8 p.e. in 1930, followed
by 6 p.e. and then 54 p.e. for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts, when
the final was at the rate of 5 p.e. p.a.
During the year an extra 2202 bales were
put under the hammer (30,696) ; but gross
earnings (£46,664, including a final £1503
from Bawra) were a trifle lighter. After
providing for depreciation and taxation, exes.
(£38,677) were £2617 heavier, leaving the
net result a wink under 5 p.e. on capital as
against 6.6, 8.5, 14.2, 18.4, 16.4 and 19.6 p.e.
back to 1926. But that is leaving out of
the figuring a fat profit of £22,097 on the
in other cos.; they appeared at
±41,236 at the close of accounts in 1931.
Of the surplus £20,000 was written off the
book value of goodwill, reducing the intan-
gible, which is not treated as an asset herein,
to £3O 000 at April 30. The other £2097
more than offset (he £BlO by which the div.
exceeded the net result of the year’s ordinary
trading operations.
How the money that became available was
used this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:—
„ . 192 i. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £90,000 £159,959 £159,959 £159,959
Liabilities . . 17,314 87,063 103,576 72,981
Properties . . 31,666 93,174 92,469 93,099
Plant, etc. . . 3,787 7,681 7,380 6,720
Advances . . 28,815 146,111 164,176 191,382
Shares in other
cos. . . 33,236 41,236 41,236 1,461
Cash, etc. .. 28,057 1,900 3,083 4,297
Thus, with £3689 added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£30.992), the
board was able to knock £34,284 off the
overdraft, reducing it to £41,989, and in-
crease the book value of advances by
£27,206 net. Including shares in other cos.,
the year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£124,159) was £19,240.
The immediate outlook is for another
satisfactory season in Queensland; but
prices lack strength, overhead is stubborn,
taxation onerous, and many growers are
finding it difficult to make ends meet, even
with exchange as it is. Hence the market
prices the co.’s pound shares, which are
covered by net tangibles with a book value
of 265. lid., at 17s. 6d. The return at
l<s. 6d. is 5.7 p.e. on a 5 p.e. div. basis.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 26,780 10 p.e. = 20,991 5,789 89,804
Profit on sale of assets, £12,416.. 102 ?20
1923.. 27,407 10 p.e. = 27,407 102’220
1924.. 11.809 4„ „ 11,788 21 102!241
Loss.
1925.. 34,560 Nil 67,681
Deficit.
Assets written down, £70,000 .. 2,319
_ .. , . Reserves.
Capital written down, £73,674 .. 7i 355
Profit on sale of assets, £2,651.. 74,’006
1926.. 11,527 Nil 62,479
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 .. 46,776
t, Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £64,281 .. 17.505
1927.. 3,738 Nil 21,243
Reserves.
Capital written down, £22,102 . . 859
Profit on sale of assets, £1172 .. 2.031
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924
Profit.
1929.. 3,098 Nil 3098 5,022
1930.. 792 2.7 p.e. = 4,911 903
h oss - Deficit.
1931.. 11,257 Nil 10,354
1932.. 13,936 Nil 24,290
The chairman sums up the position in this
way:—
Total sales for the year were approximately one-
fourth of normal turnover, and one-eighth of our mill
capacity. An increase in sales can be achieved only
when general trading conditions improve and stimu-
late the demand for timber. Until such conditions
are experienced, it is impossible to earn enough
gross profit to cover the cost of manufacture and
distribution plus the inescapable fixed overhead
charges.
After taking stocks into the sheet at
£-6,386 below the 1931 figure, and openly
striking off £2572 for depreciation, the loss
on the year’s operations was £13,936, rais-
ing the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£24,290 at the end of March; that is leav-
ing out of the reckoning a depreciation re-
serve of £32,905. For the last couple of
years McKenzie’s figures are indicative of
the general experience in the trade. Yet
there are some, whose own capital is not
invested in the timber business, who would
have the public believe that fat profits art 1
to be won from the milling and marketing
of forests at the moment.
Certainly the co. has met with more than
the ordinary difficulties of the industry. In
1925 £70,000 (=ss. per share) was slashed
off capital to cover losses in connection with
the Patrick line of steamships and the failure
of the Fraser Island venture in Queensland.
A further cut of Is. 6d. a share was made
in 1928, when Is. 6d. was also returned in
' cash not required for business purposes,”
thus reducing paid capital to £176,819 in
fully-paid 12s. shares.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1924. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £294,698 £176,819 £176,819
Liabilities . . 38,409 4,892 3,621 1,331
Freehold, plant,
etc... .. 105,603 99,731 105,597 105,615
Stocks .. 175,023 03,823 74,198 47,812
Shares other
cos. .. 105,020 1,810 3,785 3,795
Book debts 1 f 35,511 12,242 13,576
Cash, etc. J 49 ’ 801 1 4,104 2,148 15,964
Last year’s reduction in the book value of
stocks enabled £3.3,816 to be added to the
cash holding, and the amount coming to
sundry creditors was reduced by £2190. The
more or less liquid surplus (£76,021, includ-
ing stocks) slipped £9046.
The market prices the scrip at Is. 6d.;
it is covered by net tangibles with ,a book
value of 30s. 4d., excluding, the depreciation
reserves.
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and
r —Dividend Tax—,, Writ-
Pref. ten Ke-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1500 16 p.c. =24,655 326,748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 425 323,528
Mar.,’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ ~ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 ~ ~24,655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 . . 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,640
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 . . 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „,, 42,545 542,902
Mar., ’29.. 63,891 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 067,524
Mar., ’30.. 67,910 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 ~ „ 34,036 606,130
Mar., ’31.. 40,580 1500 16 ~ ~ 34,036 611,171
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 613,496
Mar.,’32.. 45,892 1500 16 ~ ~34,036 623,852
The March half includes the thirsty summer
months; and the shrinkage in pastoral
and agricultural incomes has been partly
offset by increased earnings on the gold-
fields, vvhere the outlook is more promising
than _it has been for years. So, despite
stinging increases in excise and other taxes,
and legislative cuts in interest and rents,
the board feels less uncertain than it did
about the future. Hence the div., which was
dropped from 16 p.c. to 12 p.c. for the Sept,
half of ’3l, was restored to the old rate
for the following six months, making 14 p.c.
for the year.
For nearly 20 years after Coolgardie first
started the rush of thirsty people westward
Swan’s divs. ranged from 24 p.c. to 32 p.c.
In 1911 the rate dropped to 16 p.c., fol-
lowing the transfer of £101,450 from reserves
to capital; it remained steady, sweetened
with 4 p.c. bonuses in the fattest years,
until September last. Meanwhile the absorp-
tion of two old competitors—Castlemaine in
’26 and Emu in ’27 —gave the co. almost a
monopoly of the trade in the State. And
with accumulations now visibly £148,398 in
excess of capital, the two combined need turn
only 6.4 p.c. to cover the pref. div. and give
16 p.c. to the ords. For the 12 months to the
close of last accounts there was enough
declared profit, after allowing for the small
pref. bite, to show 17.3 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 21.5, 26.7, 29.2 and 27.3 p.c. back
to 1928.
Constant additions have been made to the
brewery, hotel freeholds, etc, and paid for
out of earnings; then these items were
written down from the same source, keeping-
book values low in relation to their earn-
(Continued on page 16.)


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
MOUNT COOLON EXTENDED NO LIABILITY
(Registered under Part II of the Victorian Companies Act 1928.)
Capital £250,000 in 500,000 Shares of 10/- each
330 ' 00 ° °" ««*»
70,000 l"ale. JuUypald up to IOZ-eaC, .re be ..lotted to George Hay 1» ra .n,„.., Ltd., » part
payment of the purchase consideration as hereinafter set tort 5 q qqo
100,000 Shares will be held in reserve for future issue J
500,000
£250,000
DIRECTORS.
JOHN W. McCOMAS, Melbourne, Solicitor.
JOHN C MACMILLAN, Toorak, Pastoralist.
Or H C E DONOVAN, Sydney, Medical Practitioner.
ALBERT G. McDONALD, Sydney, Constructional Engineer.
TECHNICA L DIRECTORS.
ERLE HUNTLEY, M.1.M.M., Sydney, Mine Manager.
GEORGE 11. BLAKEMORE, M.1.M.M., Sydney, Mining Eng.
CONSULTANTS.
BERTRAM WIIITINGTON, 8.E., B.Sc., Sydney, Mining Eng.
CLIFFORD W. NASH, A.5.M.8., F.A.1.C., Melbourne,
Consulting Metallurgist.
BANKERS.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. J. W. MeCOMAS & CO., Melbourne.
AUDITORS.
(To be appointed.)
Share Applications will be received through any recognised
Member of Stock Exchanges throughout Australia.
SECRETARY AND HEAD OFFICE.
r A. FRASER, F.C.A. (Aust.), A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
8a ('astlei eag'h Street, Sydney (Telephone, B2fi.U).
REGISTERED OFFICE.
E G. MARTIN, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND OFFICE.
C/o A V MURRAY, A.F.1.A., A.A.A., Public Accountant,
‘ Herbert Street, Bowen.
OBJECTS*.
The Company has been formed for the purpose (inter alia) of taking
over and developing certain mining leases, including Plant and Buildings,
from George Hay Investments, Ltd. The title documents are held by the
Commonwealth Bank in escrow.
PROPERTIES TO BE ACQUIRED.
The properties to be acquired are “Dig Again, adjoining Bare ay s
"Native Bear,” Mt. Coolon, Queensland, and two other contiguous leases;
the lot total 28 acres. Water Rights have been applied for. The properties
are some 130 miles south-west of the port of Bowen (Q.). Flfty ' SlX \
of Government railroad connects Bowen with Collinsville, and a road suita
for motor traffic extends from Collinsville to Mount Coolon.
VENDOR AND PROMOTER
Queensland Gold Leases, Ltd., and George Hay Investments, Ltd.,
both incorporated in New South Wales, are the Promoting and Vendor
COm ¥he ie “Dig Again” Lease, No. 1 16, has been worked for approximately
five years. Government returns show that the whole of the ore treated has
returned over an ounce of fine gold to the ton. ... K , i n .
Lease 1 12 (since the flotation of Mount Coolon Gold Mines, N.L.) at
the end of November, 1931, struck gold on this lode giving 2oz. to ioz. m
a shaft that was subsidised by the Queensland Government.
From reports made on the adjoining properties of Mount Coolon Gold
Mines, N.L., by Mr. C. H. J. Clayton, Underground Manager of The
Zinc Corporation, Ltd., and Messrs. Carl Lmdberg and Geo. K-lug,
on behalf of Consolidated Goldfields and The Zinc Corporation, Ltd.,
respectively, valuable data have been obtained which will be of great
assistance to this Company, especially as Mount Coolon Gold Mines, . • >
also carried out 1 800 assays on the same lode and definitely established
the value of this important mining field. Also experimental tests in the
milling of the ore have been carried out by Mount Coolon Gold Mines,
N.L., and great expense will be saved by this Company availing itself ot
such information.
DIMENSIONS OF THE DEPOSIT.
In respect of the adjoining lease, Mr. Charles Gibson states that the
lode should live to 700 feet at least.” He also states in his report that at
the 300 ft. level in the ‘Native Bear,* adjoining the Dig Again lease th
drive extends from one end of the lease to the other and shows the ode to
be structurally as strong and persistent as ever, with every * ndlc^ n
living to much greater depths.” Mr. Whitington concurs with Mr. Gibson
statement. There are two main shafts sunk to approximately 190 feet on
1 I 6 and 112. No development work has yet been done on 1 22, but there is
no reason to suppose otherwise than that the lode should continue ur er
westerly and run through this block. ~ . , n «« .
Extract from report on the Mount Coolon field by C. C. Morton,
A.C.T.S.M., Government Geologist of Queensland: - . . .
“The Sunbeam lease (now the Dig Again No 1 on plan) is well
situated on the line of lode, and in anticipation of the rich shoots on the
Native Bear trending to the north-west, as the country has a general
tendency to pitch in this direction, further sinking of the Kangaroo bhatt
(No. 2 on plan) to intersect these shoots in depth, is well warranted.
Mr. Whitington estimates that in the sinking of seven shafts on Leases
116 and 112, over 12| chains west of Mount Coolon Gold Mines N.L.
boundary, to a depth of 300 feet only, the ore tonnage is 1 19,167. With
a 92-p.c. recovery, gold at £4/4/- per ounce and costs at 30/- per ton,
this is calculated to yield bullion valued at £460,461. In this connection
Mr. Whitington has been even more conservative than Mr Coldham, who
on the adjoining leases, estimates recoveries above the 300-feet level at
£4//l Mr. Gibson has stated that “the lode is traceable on the surface for a
distance of nearly 2000 feet, payable ore having been found along. the
outcrop of the lode over an almost continuous length of 1400 feet.
In view of the experience and observation of this authority, the
lode may be expected to live to a depth of 2000 feet. .
Extract from J. C. Coldham’s report, dated 3rd September, 1931,
for Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.:— . , ,
“To date the lode has been driven on at the 300-foot level tor
a distance of 870 feet, of which 750 feet, or approximately 86 p.c.,
is good ore, averaging in width 7.85 feet, with an assay value-
conservative cut—of 55/- per ton (gold taken at 84/- per oz. fine)
It is not unreasonable to assume, therefore, that the total length ot
profitable ore at this level will fall little short of 1 000 feet.
Mr. Whitington also confirms this opinion after having been on the
field and determined that ‘‘the lode is the same struck in 116 ‘Dig Again
and continued on into 112.
RETURN of capital.
MR BERTRAM WHITINGTON ESTIMATES THAT THE MINE
OPERATING PROFIT FROM THE TREATMENT OF ORE ABOVE THE
?OO FOOT LEVEL WILL BE £281,711, AS COMPARED WITH THE
CAPITAL INVESTMENT OF £200,000.
The mine operating profit mentioned above is arrived at without
taking into consideration any exchange premium or gold bounty. At
to-day’s exchange premium (25 p.c.) and the present price of gold m
PROSPECTUS
To Mount Coolon Extended, NX.,
8A Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me copy of full Prospectus of above Company, without
obligation to me.
Same
Address
London of £5/10/- per oz„ the revenue from the sale of bullion would
amount to approximately £726,322, and increase the total operating pro
to £547,572. Operating at the rate of 100 tons per day, this amount w
Le won in four years. Mr. Whitmgton states that “the country - >n such
a well-composed, undisturbed condition as to allow working pract.
cally no timber, which greatly favors mining costs and safe working.
There is no trouble in obtaining a plentiful supply of water and lab .
COST OF EQUIPMENT AND PREPARING THE PROPERTIES.
The cost of equipping and erecting the milling and treatment plan .
power plant, fitting shop, assay office, sawmill, transport e 9 ui P™ en ’
together with requisite offices, buildings and housing accommod,alien, .
estimated at £50,000. There is available at Broken Hill, Townsville, Mount
Morgan, Cloncurry and on other fields second-hand machinery which can
be obtained by this Company on very favorable terms.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION. £ ,. nnn .
The vendors’ consideration for these properties is £50,000 m
70,000 Shares of 10/- each fully paid, and £15,000 in cash, ree o
Income Tax. It is estimated that the present issue of Shares, after
charging flotation expenses, brokerage expenses and payment as above
mentioned, should leave the Company with £130,000 in cash, to furthe
develop and equip the mines and place the enterprise on a .P r ° duc “*
The consideration to the Vendors of leases acquired by Mount Coo on
Gold Mines, N.L., was £150,000. In the Native Bear and Mount Coolon
Leases—over which that Company had a wqrkmg option—the actual
length of that lode in a westerly direction from Mount Coolon was
approximately 20.8 chains on 22 acres, as against this Company s 28
acres having approximately 36.43 chains on the line of lode in a similar
direction.
TAXATION.
Dividends paid to Shareholders resident in Australia (except in
South Australia) are exempt from Federal and State Income 1 axes.
In addition, the Federal Income Tax allows a deduction to the Share-
holder of so much of his assessable income as is paid m Calls in Companies
carrying on mining operations in Australia for gold. The Queensland
Income Tax Act allows, in addition to the Calls, so much of the assess-
able income as is paid in application or allotment moneys on Shares in a
Company carrying on gold-mining operations in Queensland.
GENERAL
On May 12, 1932, Mr. James Barclay, late owner of Native Bear Lease
f 8 acres), acquired by Mount Coolon Gold Mines, N.L., for sum of £7O, ,
after Mr. Barclay had taken out Gold, to the value of £200,000, wrote to
the George Hay Investments, Ltd., as follows: -
“In reply to your inquiry as to the prospects of your adjoining
property to Mount Coolon, I herewith advise you that, in my opinion,
the values of the lode should be the same as was obtained by me m the
Native Bear, as it is the same lode and should contain similar values.
F-xtract from Mr. Whitington’" re-ort: —
RECOVERY FROM OPERATIONS.— In view of the actual recoveries from
„ Tcifivo p P .ir over a period of 17 years, and also from lib over a period
of fi?e Tears showing an Pierage of over loz. per ton. and further, that
the Mt 3 Coolon G.M..N.L.. has estimated the value of ore still to be worked
on the ’ Native Bear above the 300 feet level is over loz. of gold per ton, re-
T the fonr-vear period may be reasonably based on an average
vibTof the lode of loz. of gold per ton down to the 300 feet level, and allow-
ing for a 92 per cent recovery, that would give 109,6340 z. of gold, which at
£4/4/- per oz. would realise £400,461.
Allowing for the following costs of mining and operating , viz.:—
Ore Extraction.. .. •• Wl® ® l )er * on
Development ® ® I>er *® n
Treatment WO per ton
Total Cost of . . £1 10 0 per ton of ore mined and treated
One hundred tons mined and treated per day would cost £l5O per day, and
flt a tolal operating profit of £281,711 oyer a period
of four years, or an average of £70,428 per annum.
SEND FOR PROSPECTUS FOR EUEE REPORT.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES. Applications for Shares must be
made upon the appropriate form accompanying this P[ os P ectus *
cheques accompanying applications should be drawn payable to the order
of the Company and erased “Not Negotiable.” Prospectus and Forms of
Application may be had from the Secretary or from any recognised
Member of the Australian Stock Exchanges.
If the number of Shares allotted be less than the number applied lor,
the surplus application money will be credited in reduction o 1 e
due on allotment, as far as may be necessary, and any balance will be
returned.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
To the Directors, Mount Coolon Extended, NX.,
8A C’astlereagh Street, Sydney.
2L2r± “S £**££? <i?s£ o?r„v r e^u».
n«/i mil) ipot to tli© Tallies of tli© Conipftnj .
I herewith £ being I/- per share on application
and I agree to pay a further t - per share on allotment, and I
authorise you to register me as the holder of such shares.
Dated this '* a .v
1932
Name (in full)
Address (in full)
Occupation
Signature


The Future of
Investments
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for June, now on Sale, dis-
cusses how the market is
likely to move.
CAN THIS THING GO ON?
Under the heading “Stabilisa-
tion” it also considers a
scheme of currency reform.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice, Davies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
THAT TRIP ABROAD.—Something to look
forward to! But how to save for it ? Cannot save
sixpence these days. Yes, you can. You have to
pay for taxes no matter what happens, because they
are demanded. Let the T. and G. demand a yearly
tax for the Holiday Policy—a good long holiday
for you and your wife at, say, 50. before you are
too old to enjoy it. Ring or write the T. & G.
Mutual Life Society for particulars.— Advt. 10
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
(smelting Works and Refineries: PORT EEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500»000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee. Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
a OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
OECIL H DOYLE (Chairman} J- H. h. AJNtiUfe
J W. BARNES, Manager. E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
„ . , _ , , £8,780,000
Paid-up Capital • ’* 6,150,000
Reserve Fund ~ •• • • •• •• •• •• s 7KO 000
Reserve Liability B>7BU>UOU
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
iug capacity in the past. Here is the position
so far as the published accounts show it: —
Mar.,’26. Mar.,’3l. Mar.,’32.
Capital £358,190 £475,454 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc. 60,371 139,586 106,417
Other liabilities . . 81,452 84,543 70,385
Freehold and plant .. 654,179 979,066 967,378
Mortgages . . . . 58,588 54,357 45,352
Stocks 54,759 60,866 50,243
Shares in other cos. . . 6,897 111,722 111,722
Book debts . . . . 81,973 95,741 81,605
Cash, etc. . . . . 3,353 43,940 55,345
Last year the book value of stocks was
reduced by £10,623, debtors’ balances by
£14,136 and mortgages by £9005. With the
year’s surplus earnings, including the allow-
ance for depreciation, etc., the board Avas
thus able to snip £47,327 off the debt, and
add £11,405 to the cash holding. Excluding
shares in other cos., the improAement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£55,743) was
£24,968.
At 555. the 255. paid ords. return 7.3 p.c.
on a 16 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. at 21s. yield 5.7 p.c. The net tangible
backing is £2l 18s., prefs.; 60s. lid., ords.
Waihi G.-M. Co., Ltd. (M.L.)
For the 12 months of 1931 Waihi treated
223,376 short tons for a yield of £413,900
in gold and silver. The figures include 26,496
tons from the adjoining Grand Junction,
assaying 9.6dwt. gold and 4oz. 18dwt. silver,
worth 50s. a ton, as against Waihi’s 6.6dwt.
gold and 2oz. 7dwt. silver, worth 325. Od.
The combined crushings averaged 345. 9d.
compared Avitli 375. Id. in 1930. Extractions
(91.7 p.c.) are slightly below last year’s
92.2, but better than the average of recent
years. Interest, etc., contributed £17,600,
and pOAVer supplied by the M.L. Government
under the Hora Hora hydro-electric purchase
scheme Avas valued at £10,625, making total
income £442,125 as against £426,282 in
1930. But exes. (£376,654) were £46,553
heavier, due to the growth of £43,146 in the
tax bill (£71,589), leaving the net result at
£65,471. So, to pay the usual 10 p.c. div.,
reserves were tapped for £33,710, reducing
tnem to £400,171 at the end of last December.
The year’s development disclosed 188,657
tons of new ore, leaving reserves at 342,812
tons, with an average assay value of 335. 3d.
But about half of this ore supports shafts
and levels, and cannot be got out at a
profit. Superintendent H. W. Hopkins says,
"Owing to the increased proportion of small
blocks now being worked, the narroAvness of
branch reefs which require more development
Avork and timbering, and sometimes sub-
levels to open them up, mining lias become
more expensive.” This and the fact that
most of the available ore assays 325. per ton,
Avhile last year’s all-in costs, including taxa-
tion. Avere 335. Id., make it plain that
mining profits depend upon the exchange
premium. The full benefit of the 10 p.c.
wage cut will not be felt until the close of
next accounts.
At the end of December there was £100,659
coming to outsiders. More or less liquids
totalled £449,939, of which £371,824 was
represented by British and Dominion securi-
ties (market value £338,752). The mine,
plant, etc., figured at £268,899; that includes
the hydro-electric works, for which the M.L.
Government is to pay the co. £212,500 in
November, 1934—the amount fell due in
November last, but payment was postponed
for three years. Also there is £79,535 in-
vested in Puket Tin Dredging, Siam. Owing
to the restriction of outputs and the loav
price of tin, this subsidiary has not yet com-
menced operations.
Paid capital, doubled by a bonus issue of
1927, is £247.954 in ss. shares, which are
priced at 15s. 3d. on the market. They are
covered by surplus liquids Avitli a book value
of 11s. 4d.. including the £212,500 coming
from the Government.
Research work and sales propaganda in
the United States are widening the use of
copper. Continuous sheets of electrolytic,
claimed to be equal to the best rolled, though
manufactured at a fraction of the cost, are
being used as roofing tiles, for corrosion-
resisting wrappings on pipes and are being
tested by motor-car manufacturers for car
tops. Heavy stocks, recently estimated to
be in excess of 750,000 short tons, have
broken down the market, and European con-
sumption is still on the decline. For the
first five months of this year it averaged
31,500 tons as against a monthly average
of .37,300 in 1931. In that year the London
price of electrolytic averaged £42 13s. 2d.
as against £B5 Bs. Id. in 1929. The figure
dropped from £47 Is. 6d. for January last
to £32 10s. at last week-end. For the 12
months to the end of September, 1931, Mt.
Lyell netted £107,866 Avitli electrolytic aver-
aging £44 2s. 2d. All-in costs were £45 6s.
per ton of copper produced. Savings have
been made since, but it is doubtful whether
the co. is breaking even with the metal and
exchange as they are. The market prices
the pound shares at 18s. 3d.
Mt. Isa’s lead recovery now exceeds 90 p.c.
as against 80 p.c. when operations first
started. The value of the output for April
was £49,313 in Australian currency, includ-
ing £11,600 for silver. The ore treated was
39,422 tons, and the average value 255. per
ton. It Avas recently stated in well-informed
American circles that the all-in costs at Isa
Avere 3.82 gold dollars per ton. Each £1
rise or fall in the price of lead makes a
difference of about £3500 per month in Isa’s
revenue. Last week the metal Avas at £9
15s. as against £ll 17s. for April.
:J: * * *
After considering IT. W. Gepp’s report on
Mount Morgan, Queensland’s State Employ-
ment Council has recommended that £15,000
from the £620,000 employment loan should
be advanced for research and other opera-
tions at the mine. Whether the mine Avill
be reopened permanently will largely depend
on the result of work carried out with this
money. The proposal is expected to give
employment to 250 men.
The Commonwealth Employment Council
in S. Aus. has made £17,020 available to
assist mining in the State. Most of the
money will be spent at three centres. At
Moonta further underground exploration at
the eastern end of the field is to be under-
taken, and a small concentration plant is to
be erected to enable development ore and
20,000 tons of dump material, assaying 5 p.c.
copper, to be treated. Sixty men are to be
employed. At New Deloraine, Kcrsbrook, the
auriferous lode is to be tested by drilling, and
a plant erected to treat the dump of gold-
bearing copper ore won from the old
Deloraine. The Golden Ridge gold-bismuth
mine at Second Valley is also to be helped
in the solution of its metallurgical and mar-
keting difficulties.
i\i ❖
Mt. Coolon Gold Mines (N.Q.) is making-
good progress with the erection of its 250-
ton-per-day crushing and cyanide pant. The
primary crusher, two large conical ball mills,
three 50ft. mechanical higli-capacity thick-
eners and pumps are all being made by
Ruwolts. Also the Dorr people have arranged
for the manufacture in Australia of the
three rake classifiers. There is no reason
why our engineering firms should not cater
for the whole of the requirements of the
mining industry.
* * * *
The Lake George Go. is investigating the
possibility of recovering elemental sulphur
from the pyritic lead-zinc ores at Captain’s
Flat, N. S. Wales. The Lake George de-
posit is estimated to contain at least 500,0*00
tons of sulphur, or five years’ supply on the
basis of present imports into Australia. In
addition large pyritic ore bodies occur at the
Chester mine, near Rosebery (Tas.) at Rose-
bery itself, at Mt. Lyell, Mt. Morgan, Mt.
Isa and Broken Hill. In Norway a 200-ton-
per-day sulphur plant recently started up.
The process, said to be the result of 10
years’ research, consists of roasting the pyrite
and reducing the sulphur dioxide Avith
carbon; thus a high-grade sulphur is re-
covered.
Sillimanite, a most efficient refractory
material from which spark plugs and other
electrical insulators are made, has been
found in commercial grade and quantity at
Thac-karinga, in the Broken Hill district, by
two young technical men, G. R. Fisher and
M. Mawby. Though Sillimanite occurs in
great quantity as a rock component at the
Barrier, this deposit is the only one of
importance yet discovered.
:!: * *
At the Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen Wills
(Vic.), a reef that was lost when being
driven on 17 years ago has been located on
the 190 ft. level. Here the formation is
2ft. 6in. wide, and is expected to j’ield over
an ounce to the ton.
# ❖ ❖ >:*.
Titanium Products, a Melbourne co. formed
to recover ilmenite from the black sands at
tile mouth of Fraser’s River, King Island
(Tas.), has completed the bridge over the
stream, and is now in a position to bring in
concentrating machinery. The capacity of
the plant, which includes two magnetic con-
centrators, will be 20 tons of sands daily.
The ilmenite will be used in the manufac-
ture of a highly-resistant paint.
* * * s*i
On the Pioneer Co.’s leases, Bradshaw’s
Creek (Tas.), tributors continue to win a
fair amount of stream tin. They recently
recovered 34 tous from mine l’esidues, and
a partial clean-up after sluicing for seven
weeks gave over 5 tons. The _eo. itself has
not been operating for some time, and pro-
poses to liquidate.
Lake View and Star’s new plant is just
about ready to handle its full capacity of
40,000 tons per month. About 600 tons per
day will come from the reconstructed Chaffers
shaft, 600 from the Ivanhoe and 200 from
the Lake View. In the mill, which is on the
Chaffers lease, the ore will be finely ground
in five Ruwolt ballmills, thickened and the
pyritic portion removed by flotation. The
concentrate will be dried and roasted and the
gold recovered by cyanidation. The old mill
is to be used for retreatment of a large
accumulation of tailings, and with exchange
as it is a substantial profit is expected from
this sideline.
* * ■* *
Boulder Perseverance lias installed all the
large machinery in connection with its new
bromo-cyanide plant, which is expected to
be at work in a month or so. The Ilardinge
mill, which will be loaded with 22 tons of
steel balls, wall grind 250 tons of ore in
24 hours. All vats, containers, cones and
other machinery have been made at the Ival-
goorlie foundry. The reduction gears and
electric motors, a total of 43 of all horse-
powers, directly coupled, were made in Mel-
bourne. Exhaustive tests are to be concluded
before results ai’e announced.
!•: * * '#
At North Ivalgurli (W.A.) the oxidised
ore on the 122 ft. level assays ISdwt. per
ton over a width of Bft. This ore should
yield a profit of at least £5 per ton with
gold at its present sterling figure. On the
366 ft. level, 750 ft. north of the shaft, ore
assaying 20dwt. over a similar width is being
developed.
Sons of Gwalia’s accounts for 1931 show
a surplus of £65,807, including £BllO brought
forward. After sending £20,000 to reserves,
setting aside £13,233 for taxation and
£15,871 for depreciation and development,
£16,703 remained. A 6d. div. is recom-
mended. and the 350,000 £1 shares, priced
at 9s. 9d. on the London market, are to be
split in halves.
* sjs tfe
Arrow Gold (W.A.), recently treated
290 tons for 5790 z., and has another
parcel of 85 tons ready at the Government
battery. Development work has been ham-
pered by numerous faults. At the 50ft.
level a drive was in a rich shoot for 40ft.;
the lode was patchy for the next 60ft.; at
the 100 ft. level the lode could not be located-.
* * * *
Empire Extended has met with difficulty
in treating the refractory ore of the West-
ralia mine, Coolgardie. After erecting a 5-
head battery, grinding pan and Wilfley
tables, it was found that the ore required
roasting, and the co. was not prepared to
go on. A week’s ore-testing before erecting
the plant might have given much useful
information.
# * * *
In the Yilgarn district (W.A.) the
Bohemia Syndicate recently crushed 137
tons averaging 1.40 z. The stone came from
development on the 200 ft. level. The
co. intends to put up a battery of
its own. At Nevoria 100 tons from
French’s mine averaged loz., and 250 tons
of similar grade is at grass. Prospecting in
this area includes unwatering the Banker
mine, development of the Jacolette. and
further work at Bullfinch and Hopes Hill.
Westralian gold yield for the first five
months of this year is 236,0000 z. fine, or
58,0000 z. more than for the corresponding-
period of 1931. Boulder Perseverance is
about to increase its tonnage, Lake View
and Wiluna are enlarging the capacity of
their plants, and Great Boulder, is talking
of installing new and bigger equipment; so
still larger outputs for the State .seem cer-
tain.
Kaikohe Development Co., a subsidiary
of Imperial Chemical Industries, owning ex-
tensive mercury deposits at Ngawha Springs,
North Island (M.L.), has suspended opera-
tions indefinitely, and manager R. H. Good-
win has returned to England. Difficulties in
ore treatment and the low price of mercury
were the trouble. The plant, which consists
of two modern distillation furnaces and col-
lection equipment, has a capacity of 400 tons
of ore daily. During 1931 the price of mer-
cury fell from £2O to £l6 per flask of 761 b.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Location of the Coober Pedy ( S.A .)
opalfieldf (2) Value of opal produced there?
(3) Possibilities of further finds? (4)
Nearest place where provisions, etc., man
be purchasedf —379.
(J.) In Stuart Range, almost north of
Tareoola and 163 miles a little west of north
of Ivingoonya. (2) From 1916 to 1931 in-
clusive, £127,847. (3) Area has been well
combed, but prospecting may reveal further
deposits. (4) There is a store on the field,
and a Government tank with water. A mail
motor leaves Ivingoonya every Saturday morn-
ing, after arrival of the train from Adelaide,
direct for the field. There is a limited
market for opal at present, and prices are
low.
What are the ore reserves and assail
values at Mt. Isa? —566.
f Assay .
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Carbonates— Long Tons. p.c. oz. p.e.
Black Star .. 3,102,000 8.3 2.7
Rio Grande .. 217,000 15.2 10.0
Black Rock .. 174,000 20.0 10.1
Mount Isa .. 102,000 12.2 3.2
Sulphides—
Black Star .. 15,179,000 8.3 5.1 8.9
Rio Grande . . 286,000 14.0 7.2 0.1
In addition there is over 11,000,000 tons,
assaying 4.8 p.c. lead and 2.60 z. silver, treat-
ment of which is unprofitable at present low
metal prices. Also there are large bodies
of ore not yet measured up.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.A.P.: Real Estate Institute of N. S. Wales
charges 3 p.c. on sales of city and suburban pro-
perties valued from £567 to £3OOO. .. .A.L.: (1)
See B. 25/5/’32, page 16. (2) Great Britain. But
owing to the discounting facilities in London for
international trade bills, all parts of the world are
interested in sterling. (3) The price expressed in
terms of sterling. Last week fine gold was quoted
at £5 13s. per ounce in London. The standard price
of fine gold is £4 4s. 11-id. ;so sterling was at a
discount of 33 p.c. in terms of gold A.M.M.:
(1) Robert Nelson. (2) The Court dismissed Mr.
Bond’s application for both the appointment of a
new liquidator and for the refund of certain com-
missions already paid.... A.G.T.: The T. E. and A.
is a purely Victorian concern of excellent repu-
tation Marsram: (1) At September 30 last paid
capital was £4,092,925 in £1 shares, of which
4,074,182 were fully paid and 375,000 were paid
to Is. each. (2) Sydney. (3) Owing to heavy
capitalisation market prices fully-paids at ss. 3d.
Working profit for April was £11,234 from alluvial.
Mill to treat 100 tons of ore per day will be in
operation shortly. The ore is impregnated with
silver; but no difficulty is expected in securing a
high gold extraction. .. .Nod: The divs. are paid to
shareholders only out of profits made from selling-
bonds. Bondholders have to look to the sale of
forest products for any return on their money. The
sale of these products is not likely to begin for a
few years yet.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Help for the Grazier
N. S. Wales meatgrowers are inquiring into
the possibility of running a co. on the lines
of the old Sydney Meat Preserving Go. The
circumstances of the moment justify it. lhe
S M. P. Go. was formed by graziers who
believed that rings were formed to keep down
the price of live meat in the Sydney market.
The co. set up a preserving factory
(“S.M.P.” tinned meats had a great vogue)
to deal with surplus stock taken off the
Sydney market. But the basis of the whole
thing was that the vendors (mostly mem-
bers of the co.) allowed a rebate of id. per
pound on all meat bought by the co. It never
paid a dividend: its object was to bid so
high that, even with the gd. rebate, it was
just able to sell without loss as a meat-
packer. The meatgrowers gained because
every other buyer had to outbid this buyer
who (1) didn’t want to show a profit and
(2) got a rebate. On the ground that the
public had all the time to' outbid a fictitious
bid, the operations were, after many years,
made illegal.
To-day the position is that the prices of
primary products have fallen much more
than those of other commodities. The
N.S.W. Government Statistician issues a
monthly summary, and the index of whole-
sale prices furnishes some startling results.
The average for the year 1911 is taken as
a basis (=100). Since then this has hap-
pened :
Wool. Wheat. Non-Rural.
1929 .. 162 140 181
1930 .. 109 110 178
1931 .. 104 70 180
This means that whereas the woolman in
1931 got as an average 12s. lOd. for what
brought him £1 in 1929, and the wheatman
got exactly 10s., they had to pay for their pur-
chases 19s. lOkl. Or put it in another way:
while non-rural commodities rose SO p.c.
between 1911 and 1931 (averages for both
years), the woolman’s product rose only 4
p.c. and the wheatman’s actually fell 30
p.c. “The marked disparity between the
relative price levels of the principal rural
products and the non-rural group has been
a prominent feature of price movements
since the early part of 1930,” the Statisti-
cian says.
It is this disparity which justifies the
primary producer in asking for assistance,
lie has had it for 18 months past in the
shape of exchange, and his position is still
so unsatisfactory that he is asking for more.
Further assistance in the shape of higher
exchange is full of danger; accumulating
money in London bought at high rates would
be a constant menace. The system proposed
for helping the meatgrower would not, how-
ever, mean any accumulation of funds. It
would be tantamount to a small tax on meat,
levied for the benefit of those whose commo-
dities have crashed in price, payable mainly
by those whose commodities have kept fairly
constant.
Low Price Levels
On American figures rubber has of all
raw commodities had the heaviest fall. Tak-
ing the average prices of 1925-29 as a basis,
the quotations at the end of April showed the
following declines: Rubber, 93 p.c.; hides,
78; silk, 75; sugar (raw), 74; cotton, 69;
hogs, 68; eggs, 66; tin, 65; wheat, 63;
jute, 62; copper, 61; lead, 60; wool, 59;
zinc, 59; coffee, 55; butter, 55; oats, 53;
silver, 53; cocoa, 44; petroleum, 41; beef,
41; pig-iron, 28.
It is found that prices in 1931-32 have been
lower than any from 1890 down to the war
years in the following raw goods: Zinc,
silver, petroleum, rubber, raw sugar, cocoa,
wheat and hides. Most of the pre-war
“lows” were recorded in 1894-95-96; in 1895
at Chicago wheat got down to-48.75 cents
(2s. Ofd) ; in 1931 it went to Is. 10£d.
Rubber has had the worst experience. The
lowest pre-war pi'ice was 40 cents in 1914;
this year it has been down to 2.95 cents.
Silver’s pre-war “low” was 47.38 cents in
1902; last year it touched 26 cents.
It will be seen that prices of more than
half the principal raw commodities reached
lower depths at some period between 1890
and 1914 than they have during the present
depression. There have, however, been
greater inequalities this time than ever
before and the producer of raw materials
has been the greatest sufferer. For March the
U.S.A. “index” of farm prices was only 45 p.c.
of the 1926 average, whereas the prices paid
by farmers for commodities bought were 77
p.c. of the 1926 prices. The American
Bureau of Labor publishes an index of 784
commodities. The decline from 1926 prices
is 33 p.c. But the average decline of 23
raw commodities (most of them quoted
above) has been 61 p.c.
Standards
Shortly after the war a body was formed
in Australia to cut out waste, by setting up
standards in the engineering industry;
and since then the work has been vastly
extended. A survey of the sheet-metal gut-
tering and downpiping industry disclosed
that 150 varieties were being , made. In-
quiries in the building trades disclosed that
two-thirds of these were quite unnecessary;
and the multiplicity of makes, with only
small variations, greatly added to the diffi-
culty and expense of renewal and repair
work. It was early discovered, too, that the
42 principal cities and towns of Australia
used no less than 38 different patterns of
road gully-gratings. It was found that four
answered all purposes. Actually, 300 differ-
ent varieties of navvy shovel had been pro-
duced ; many of them differed from one
another in only small details, but even these
differences interfered with mass production
and thus increased the cost.
Lately the work of the Standards Asso-
ciation has been altered a little. At the
start all that it tried to do was to cut out
the superfluous. But, it argued,. you can
take a whole range of, say, hospital beds,
and you can find the type most used, but
that doesn’t mean that you have found the
ideal bed. Some of the other kinds are per-
haps slightly better in some ways. If, in-
stead of choosing the type most used, you
combine all its good points with the best
features of the others to make up the ideal
bed, you create a commercial standard. And
that is the further job which the Standards
Association has set itself.
Who Pays Exchange?
“ Jackaburra”: I’m in the hardware trade
and hardly a day goes by that I don t come
in contact with at least a couple of cus-
tomers who are going on the land, otten
starting from scratch. They want to buy an
axe or two, wedges, brush-hooks, chippmg-
hoes, and so forth. I’m just about ashamed
to ask the places that it has become neces-
sary to get for these things—never less
than 50 p.c. above what they were a couple
of years ago, and frequently double the
price. I also have definite proof that the
quality of many imported tools in common
use here (English ones, too) has sadly de-
teriorated since duty, exchange and sales
tax became so considerable, although such
tools still bear the old labels.
Woolgrowers’ Troubles
Dear Bulletin, —There seems much con-
fusion concerning B.A.WLR.A. and the
operations of the Central Wool Committee.
It was that committee which managed the
Imperial wool purchase. John Higgins was
a member of the committee, but the other
members were the experienced men in the
wool business. Mr. Higgins did not create
B.A.W.R.A. A committee of Australian
wool representatives in London was dele-
gated by the Australian Wool Council to
negotiate with the British Government in
respect to the carry-over wool. B.A.W.R.A.
was the outcome of the negotiations; Mr.
Higgins was appointed chairman in Aus-
tralia, and he carried through with much
credit. But there was no magic associated
with the transactions that followed —the
1,800,000 bales of B.A.W.R.A. wool were
sold by the brokers in just the same way as
they sold about 6,000,000 bales of other Aus-
tralasian wools during the same period.
There was a great demand for wool at that
time and high prices ruled. Unfortunately
those wonderful prices acted as a stimulus
to the manufacture of substitutes, to the
cost of Australian woolgrowers.
Insurance experts and _ economists after
examining Higgins’s stabilising plan set out
very clearly and comprehensively the falla-
cies of it, and the Wool Growers’ Council,
after careful consideration, very rightly de-
clined to go further with the proposals.
There was no “hush-hush” policy on the
part of the Wool Growers’ Council; copies
of the scheme were circulated among the
graziers’ and stockowners’ associations, fol-
lowed by the economists’ and insurance ex-
perts’ reports, and the scheme was very defi-
nitely turned down by them. —Yours etc.,
James Walker.
Paper-making in Australia
The Tasmanian Parliament has been
smacking its lips over a bill granting rights
and concessions of timber
country in the Florentine
Valley; the grantees are
the Melbourne “Herald”
people, and the purpose
is paper-making.
This business is get-
ting complicated. Origi-
nally a small co. headed
by Gerald Musson got a
Tasmanian forest conces-
sion, and proved over a
long period that the
timber would make good
paper. Just about the
time the tests were con-
cluded, De Bavay’s co.,
which had been leaching
zinc out of Broken Hill
tailings dumps at a great
profit, ran out of a job,
and with money in liana
and a staff to keep going
if possible, took up other
Tasmanian forests. Since
then the two cos. have
been coming together and
falling apart again; and
the Tasmanian Govern-
ment has never done
much to compel them to
join forces. Musson’s co.
had the support of a
group of the big papers
of Australia, but not
Melbourne “H er a 1 d,”
which in these days has
more or less control over
the “Advertiser” and
“News” (Adelaide), the
“West Australian”
(Perth) and various small
concerns. Lately nego-
tiations were opened up
by the Melbourne
“Herald,” which can
command a good deal of
capital; and capital is
what the Musson co., at
any rate, is shortest of.
Suggested terms were,
however, unacceptable:
whereupon the “Herald,”
tired of importing and
paying heavy exchange
and (like the rest of Aus-
tralian papers) unable to
buy a ton of locally-made
newsprint, resolved to
make a start on its own
account in the Florentine
Valley.
The timber supply of
the Florentine Valley is
beyond question; there is
less certainty about the
water supply and one or
two other features.
Empire Tea and Coffee
We shall hear some-
thing about tea at
Ottawa. Java leaf has
been appealing more and
more to British distribu-
tors, and thousands of
Indians and Cingalese
have been thrown out of
work. Africa will push
hard for an Empire pre-
ference, Nyasaland and
Tanganyika having lately
gone into the business.
It is worth attention, too,
in Australia. The story
that it is a colored-labor
industry doesn’t cut the ice it did before the
bottom was knocked out of the myth that
only cheap colored people could profitably
grow rice.
Something is also likely to be done about
coffee. Empire- and foreign-grown imported
into Britain is about 50-50; but Empire-
grown hasn’t bettered its position for years.
Present British duty is 14s. per hundred-
weight foreign, 11s. Bd. Empire (approx,
lid. and l|d. per pound). Brazil has lately
been over-producing; and not less than a
full Id. preference is likely to do much
good. Even at that figure Australia will not
be interested.
Free Travel in Search of Work
“Beta”: I hope the new Government of
N. S. Wales will provide free travel on the
trams and trains for the unemployed on
the dole. Even if the concession were re-
stricted to the day that each individual
travels to collect his dole-ticket it would be
a godsend. I know of men who have a
fortnightly trek of over 10 miles to the dole
depot and back, and walk it hungry because
the fortnightly dole issue can never be made
to hang out for the full 14 days. A good
percentage of the men are not laborers.
Clerks, brokers, canvassers, etc., might fluke
work if they were enabled by free travel to
look for it. Without this concession the
finding of any sort of job is an utter im-
possibility to the really cashless man; a
daily walk from any of the outlying suburbs
is impossible if only on account of the wear
and tear on boots. Without this concession
highly-trained men are forced into the posi-
tion of waiting for the Government Call-up
(which never comes for some) as the only
means whereby they can get a few shillings
for fares to enable them to seek some open-
ing on their own account.
The Leipzig Fair is one of the most re-
markable things Germany has organised since
the war. Twice a year it is held, its prin-
cipal object being to introduce new goods to
buyers from all parts of the world. Both
parties, buyers and exhibitors, are encouraged
by large rebates on rail fares, etc., and
language difficulties are overcome by * a staff
of interpreters. There are authorised repre-
sentatives in most parts of the world —
there is one in Sydney and another in Mel-
bourne.
# * * *
It is surprising how much work even the
big importers do in Australia these days.
Take the Vacuum Oil Co., for example. Of
course its bulk oil comes from overseas;
but it markets no less than 250 petroleum
products, and the bulk of them are made
here. Many are made expressly for this
market —spraying mixtures especially. This
means big plant: £4,000,000 lias been spent
in equipment. All the cans used in distri-
bution (14 million a year) are now made
here, all the railway tank-cars (125), and
all the petrol pumps (total cost of these
has been £BOO,OOO, including those origin-
ally imported). The tank-waggons are all
body-built in Australia; there are 360 of
them —-they cost a shade over a thousand
each. One way and another the co. keeps
2500 on the Australian pay-roll, and, inci-
dentally, encourages them to acquire em-
ployee-shares.
“Orel”: “Increase production for export,"
we’re told. As it is necessary to run more
sheep to make a living at present wmol
values, I applied for part of some unoccu-
pied N.S.W. Crown land outside my boun-
dary fence and paid up a year’s rent, based
on pre-depression land values, with my appli-
cation. That was six months ago. I have
not even got any satisfaction as to when the
Land Board will meet to hear my applica-
tion. The department lias thus had the use
of my money and I have lost a year’s use
of the land. I have not been able to fence
it or do any ringbarking. It’s too late for
ringbarking now, and, anyway, I shall be
too busy for the next six months to do any'
thing to the block, even if it was granted to
me next week. I believe it was difficult to
get on the land in the ’nineties, but it doesn’t
appear to have been much easier lately.
* * * *
“Wyara” : What is said to be the world's
largest cattle sale was held at Eidsvold, in
the Burnett (Q.) district, on June 4, when
7000 head of store cattle were auctioned by
Martin Snelling, a Brisbane auctioneer.
Several years ago Snelling erected, at a cost
of thousands, eight acres of cattle pens on
the outskirts of the town, and has held regu-
lar cattle sales there, to which cattlemen
congregate from all parts of Australia. It is
in the centre of Queensland’s best cattle
country.
* $ * *
Tasmania seems likely to break all pre-
vious records in fruit shipments overseas
this year. Last year 40 deepsea ships lifted
24 million cases, chiefly apples; this year
45 ships have taken over 3J millions, and
at least two other ships are listed to load.
The 45th hooker of the fruit fleet, the F'ern-
dale (9640 tons), which pulled out of the
Derwent on May 18 with 148,000 eases con-
signed to London, Liverpool and Hull, is a
wreck off Algiers; it seems hardly possible
that her perishable cargo will be saved. The
prices realised in London for early shipments
are (plus exchange) fairly satisfactory, and
the Speck’s 1500 orchardists are beginning
to hope that they arc not quite the down-
trodden class the papers and politicians say
they are.
THE UNDESIRABLE CALLER.
MRS. AUSSIE: “The children are always in trouble since Ivan began coming to play with them.”
MR. AUSSIE: “Why not send Ivan home?”


For Sale.
“ART IN AUSTRALIA.”—First 11
■**' numbers, and others. Offer wanted. —
No. 237, The Bulletin Offiice.
Tenders.
’■‘TENDERS closing with the undersigned
*■ at 5 p.m. Thursday, 23rd instant, are
hereby invited for the purchase of a six-year
lease of the Railway Hotel, Mareeba, com-
mencing Ist proximo, together with license,
furniture and fittings of the said hotel.
Stock-in-trade to be taken at valuation.
Further particulars will be supplied on appli-
cation.
Highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
H. GILLIES,
Local Deputy Public Curator;
Cairns.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s G ™nd Opera Season
Criterion (com. Saturday) The Good Fairy
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“Blue Roses
King’s “Saint Joan”
State Movies and Talkies
“Saint Joan”
In the production of ‘‘Saint Joan” at Mel-
bourne King’s Lewis Casson reverses the
Elizabethan tradition. He not only gives
feminine parts to women but some male
parts in addition. Dunois’s page is taken
by a girl and Bluebeard, the type of the
effeminate courtier, is allotted to a woman.
Brother Martin (Donald Keeler) reads her
recantation to the Maid (Dame
Thorndike).
The notion is, of course, that masculine
adolescence is best represented by the soft
limbs and tenor voice of a maiden. But
youths are seldom soft-limbed and dulcet-
voiced. They are more often hard and
knobbly and have tremendous bass voices.
Zillah Carter’s notion of the effeminate man
is fantastic. There are plenty of effeminate
men to be observed about the streets and in
the teashops, but Miss Carter has evidently
never observed one. To observe and portray
such is an intellectual problem, not a matter
of physiological make-up. and a male actor
without a trace of effeminacy about him
would do it better than Miss Zillah. Sybil
Thorndike’s failure t 0 suggest that she un-
derstands Shaw’s Joan is in the same cate-
gory.
Shaw’s Joan is an intellectual crea-
tion of the first order. Anatole France
regarded the Maid as a military mascot;
Schiller and Mark Twain sentimentalised
her; The Bulletin’s Dr. MacLaurin made
her genius the by-product of a pathological
disorder. Shaw’s Maid seems to be the
most intelligible yet presented. She is hardly
a woman at all in the accepted sense. Never
once does Shaw allow her to resort to the
The Dauphin (Martin
Michael-Harvey).
feminine weapons
of artifice, weak-
ness and archness
to overcome male
opposition. The
exasperation she
arouses is due to
the fact that she
always appeals to
male reason, and
the males with
whom she is sur-
rounded having a
shortage of the
commodity, their
fury is unbounded.
Women like this
are not uncom-
mon, but the com-
bination of reason-
ableness and genius
is so unusual that
you can count such
women on your
fingers. Florence
Nightingale was
an example. She
found army medical
services being run by a lot of conventional o ld
dug-outs on good old line's, and she simply
talked commonsense to them. Joan, like Flor-
ence, made every important male person she
came in contact with feel hopelessly inferior,
the more so because she refused to be
feminine. They couldn’t argue with her
because all the ideas they stood for
were silly, while what she stood for
was eminently sensible. So they let her be
captured by the Burgundians, who sold her
to the English, who couldn’t argue with her;
so they burned her and slept more comfort-
ably.
The men of the co. understand Shaw very
well, especially in the trial scene. This is no
mean achievement, for this is Shaw at his
greatest, and Shaw at his greatest is
very great indeed. The Inquisitor, the
“Producer,” Peter Cauchon, Brother Mar-
A Peer of the Realm in 1429 (Bruce
Winston) .
tin, Chaplain do Stogumber and the Earl of
Warwick arc so well done that it is difficult
to imagine them done better.
The Williamson co.’s production of “Un
Ballo in Maschera” at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, differed somewhat from the usual
version, a gipsy being substituted for the
negro witch. A reversion that mattered
more was a return of the co. to its
conception of opera as a series of vocal
performances punctuated with ovations.
Not content with appearing before the
curtain at the conclusion of every scene,
some of the principals considered it fitting
to break off the action of the play to acknow-
ledge plaudits. There is hardly any pre-
tence of acting by any of the principals
save Bernhardi and Castagna. Izal, as
Reinhart (made up as Othello), sang
robustly, if somewhat monotonously, but he
was too audience-conscious to be convinc-
ingly dramatic. Bernhardi’s sweet melan-
choly tenor has not been heard to better
advantage than in the part of Richard.
Since most of his important observations are
by way of soliloquy, the fact that they were
addressed to the audience did not jar, and he
died agreeably. Castagna, as the witch,
repeated her success as Azuccna. Anna
Surani’s Amelia dominated every scene in
which she appeared. At times she drowned
even the capable and energetic orchestra,
and her more poignant expressions of grief
must have been audible in Balmain. Miss
Mascagni, who seems to have added cubits
to her voice since her appearance as Musetta
in “Bohbme,” made a pert and sprightly
Oscar and sang the bright music of her
role most merrily. Michele Fiore and Albino
Marone were a pair of King Charles the
Firsts who stood around conspiring darkly,
mostly sotto voce , which was a rank waste
of two excellent voices.
Staging and dressing were up to the Firm’s
standard. The costumier has discovered
that both in mediaeval Germany (as instanced
by the dancers in “Faust”) and in Boston
at the end of the seventeenth century it was
considered chic for males of the baser sort
to have one leg of their pants anything
from six inches to two feet longer than the
other. All the courtiers of Richard, mas-
querading as jolly Jack-tars, and Richard
himself, strutted round in this lop-sided garb.
Signor Rossi conducted, and the audience
got Verdi according to Verdi, a method of
presentation which hag, a lot to recommend
it. The co. winds up its Sydney season next
Tuesday, after which Melbourne is to have
the benefit of its society.
* * *
The eyesight of this paper not being
adjusted for million-candlepower illumina-
tion, The Bulletin gazed more in sorrow
than in anger at the Toti Grand Opera Com-
pany’s performance of “La Traviata” at
Melbourne Princess on Saturday. The
cyclonic lighting was the
only really serious objec-
tion to the production.
Violetta’s Paris mansion
and her country villa
were bathed in a fero-
cious glare which com-
pletely destroyed any
charm that might have
been latent in them. If
Miss Everett takes a trip
down to the King’s she
will see what beauty
there can be in shadows.
As for the rest of the
production, there was no
need for the co. to apolo-
gise for its all-Australian
origin by calling itself
the “Toti.” With the
exception of Paulin;:
(now Paulyne) Bindley,
all the performers made
their first professional
appearance, and they
made an astonishingly
good fist of Verdi’s semi-
realistic opera. In Miss
Bindley the co. played
its trump card. Miss
Leonard
Bennett as the
ghost of a
British soldier.
B. portrayed the awakening of pure love
—or of a Christian conscience, accord-
ing to how you look at it —in the heart of
an abandoned woman with the sincerity that
carries conviction. Her well-turned soprano
was always adequate and sometimes bril-
liantly expressive. Her bursts of sorrow
and sentiment reached their greatest heights
in the duets with the amorously intoxicated
Alfredo (Vincent McMurray), and it is a
tribute to her artistry that, in conjunction
with Ralph Daly as Papa Germont, she made
the long discussion on the financial embar-
rassments of her lover intelligible, as well
as vocally interesting. In the last scene
there was no overdoing of the pathos in the
Italian manner. Galloping consumption ex-
pressed itself in melodious whispers, but
without the hacking cough which is usually
considered necessary. Vincent McMurray’s
Alfredo was a big, boyish bundle of love-
sickness equipped with a tasty tenor. Ralph
Daly’s Germont was as thin as a match,
and as stiff as one, but the baritone
that came out of him was pure, tuneful and
full of feeling. Milton Mitchell’s Dr. Di
Grenville was minus a convincing bedside
manner. Of the male and female chorus
it may be said that it seldom opened its
mouth without recommending itself for the
position. Signor Domenico Caffaro, a tiny,
pale, ascetic-looking batou-wielder, showed
the practised hand by rolling his orchestra
over the occasional bumps which threatened
to mar the smoothness of the lawn of vocal-
ism. By and large, a highly meritorious pro-
duction. Emilie Hook will alternate with
Miss Bindley in the role of Violetta for
the remainder of the week, and on Saturday
there will be a gala performance of “Rigo-
letto,” with Gladys Verona as its Gilda.
* * *
When a parson turneth playwright and
learneth about the theatre by entering it by
the stage-door thereof, instead of reading
about it in the press reports and denouncing
it in letters to the newspapers, let the actors
and the actresses and the producers and the
sceneshifters and the eallboys rejoice
mightily, for there is more joy in the green-
room over one contemner that repenteth
than over the dithyrambs of 999 habitual
playgoers. Dr. Law, of St. John’s. Toorak,
hath confected a drama intituled “Mr. Job,”
anu the said drama hath had presentation at
the Playhouse. Melbourne, and at the hands
of actors who were infinitely superior to the
drama. For it was a bad drama; neverthe-
less, it was an Attempt, albeit by a hand
deficient in theatrical cunning. The drama
concerneth one Job, an exceedingly wealthy
man of Adelaide, who is afflicted with boils,
bush-fires, droughts, losses on the Stock
Exchange, aboriginal raids on his cattle, fore-
closing of mortgages, and sundry such visi-
tations of the Devil. And Job is sore troubled
in spirit, but at tbe eleventh hour, or to be
precise, 10.30 p.m., he recovereth his faith
and rejecteth the counsels of this world .
wherefore the Lord blessed the latter end
of Mr. Job more than his beginning ; tor he
had fourteen thousand sheep, and six tnou-
A Gent. One of
the Middle Ages.
sand camels, and a
thousand yoke of
oxen, and a thou-
sand she-asses. (In
the original script
he had also seven
sons and three
daughters and he
lived a hundred
and forty years,
but this is re-
garded as an exces-
sive allowance of
offspring and ex-
pectation of life
under modern con-
ditions.)
Dr. Law has fol-
lowed the Biblical
story with exceed-
ing faithfulness,
except in one par-
ticular ; he has
missed the import
of chapter xviii,
verses one and two, wherein it is written,
“Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and
said, ‘How long will it be ere ye make an
end of words?’ ”
The Palette.
The first winter exhibition of the Vic.
Artists’ Society contains no surprises. lue
old academicians have been reinforced by
some new aspirants who are. in process ot
becoming old academicians in their turn.
The show is to hang on the walls for a long
period, in the hope, no doubt, that it will
outlast the depression amongst art buyers.
The painting fraternity is in no profes-
sional danger from Vaudry Robinson, whose
bromoils in color have been hung at Chartres
House, Melbourne. Where Mr. Robinson s
photographs smack least of the camera they
look merely like tinted oleographs. Use ot
the camera is no more a short cut to a know-
ledge of nature than use of a cash register
is to a knowledge of mathematics.
Collot d’Herbois’s oils and water-color
drawings at Studio 14, 125 Collins-street,
Melbourne, are more interesting to an archi-
tect than to a painter. M. d’Herbois has a
flair for detail which serves him better when
ho is handling French Gothic than when he
is faced with an Australian gum-tree.
The habit of printing puff pars., in accord-
ance with theatrical precedent is growing
amongst Melbourne painters, but the long
prologue A. D. Colquhoun has provided to
his one-man show at the Athenaeum comes
under another category. It is safe to say
that few other artists could chant then-
credo so clearly or put it so logically. It
is the creed of all realistic painters, from
Velasquez onwards, and Colquhoun’s painting
is as uncompromising as his doctrine. The
dozen or so self-portraits of an aescetic-look-
ing artist are harshly lighted and inclined
to be too positive, but a tall girl in a brown
dress carries conviction. Another in a
Chinese skirt is a complicated color pattern
skilfully managed, though the dance of light
and color is more conspicuous in some beau-
tiful still-lifes.
Will Ashton has in the current Royal
Academy show three pictures —the maxi-
mum allowance for any outsider; and has
also the unusual honor of finding all three
hung “on the line.”
J. B. Waterhouse, at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, shows dozens of pages from
a fat sketch-book that he filled while tour-
ing France, Spain and rustic England. There
is nothing out of the ordinary in the artist’s
pencil technique, and the quaint old houses
and churches, generally a bit out of perpen-
dicular, are exactly what might be expected
in the circumstances. The fondness ot
sketchers for very old buildings is some-
times less a matter of archaeological or sen-
timental interest than a comfortable convic-
tion that any defects in the draughtmanship
will be ascribed to the ravages of time. Mr.
Waterhouse, who presents some very faithful
architectural studies, doesn’t come under that
suspicion, but it is none the less a fact that
one of his most ambitious offerings, a Spanish
tower in Moorish style, has its pinnacle at
least a yard off centre.
Poverty Point
“Cinema”: These methods of screen pub-
licity may be commonplaces in America, but
it was a few minutes before the full purport
of a huge notice
hung outside a
Melbourne subur-
ban market burst
on me. The legend
read: “Ray Fisher
Markets Here
Every Monday.”
“Cauboy”: Very
few liistrions are
at home in the
theory of their art,
and * Dame Sybil
Thorndike is no
exception to the
rule. The tragedi-
enne told a Mel-
bourne interviewer
that there was too
much realism on
the stage, due to
the influence of the
cinema, and it had
a deadening effect
on the imagina-
tion ; it was like a
photograph, as
compared to an in-
s p i-r e and painting.
Yet she has an
Norman Shelley as
an English parson.
immense and justifiable admiration for
Shaw’s “Saint Joan,” and if that isn’t real-
ism, what is? It is precisely because Shaw
took a severely realistic attitude towards
the story of the Pucelle, hitherto seen
through the tinted spectacles of romance,
that Dame Sybil was drawn towards the
play. One has only to remember the Dame’s
performance of Nurse Cavell in “Dawn” to
know that she is a realist herself. Would
that there were some realism on the stage
and the films instead of what passes for it—-
waterfalls with real water in them and
houses blown up with real dynamite.
“D.”: “Soon,” said Margaret Rawlings, iri
an address at Sydney Uni., “the talking
film will decline into a sort of newsreel."'
The talkies, she said, were benefiting the
stage
Through going often tcf the pictures, audiences
have begun to take the highest standard of acting as
normal, and will no longer put up with fifteenth-
rate touring companies.
But the realism of film-acting is negatived
by the realism of film-staging.
Motion picture audiences are not required to use
their imaginations to the smallest degree.
A similar complaint was made by veteran
Shakspeareans when scenery began to re-
place boards marked “This Is a House,’
"This Is a Forest,” and so on. Modern
audiences demand more illusion in stage set-
tings as well as better acting, and rightly
so. Why should they be asked to imagine
that a rickety bit of cardboard is a castle
wall? A cable told last week of
the failure of three of the most important London
plays (“Cavalcade,” “Helene’’ and “Miracle”) at
the height of the season, an event unprecedented in
London theatrical history.
This is happening all over the world, largely
because most stage productions are as crude,
relatively to screen productions, as sixteenth-
century shows were relatively to those of
the nineteenth century. The drama will
never turn the talkies into newsreels till
it alters the position.
“Cine Ma”: Anna May Wong was recently
presented with the honorary degree of doctor
by the Peking University in recognition of.
her services in propagating abroad “the
beauty, charm and intelligence of the women
of China”; and at the, news 40 million dead
mandarins rotated rapidly in their graves.
The ideal of Chinese womanhood used to be
the widow, who, even if she lost her boy-
husband in childhood, dedicated herself to
perpetual celibacy. When a particularly
meritorious specimen expired, her district
would petition the Emperor for permission
to erect a memorial gateway to her. Such
gateways are scattered along every highway
in China. It is difficult to associate a Holly-
wood star with perpetual widowhood.
“L. de R.” : It has always been a mystery
to me why entrepreneurs eager for box-office
results still stick to the old convention of
making their virtuosi perform on a bare
stage flanked by a few pathetic palms in
pots and underneath a. naked electric light.
A previous tour of Moiseiwitsch synchro-
nised with a Melbourne gas strike and a
breakdown of the electric-light supply in the
middle of the show. Two brass candlesticks
were brought in and placed on each side of
the player’s distinguished head. All the
rest of the platform and the auditorium was
in darkness, and the effect was Rembrandt
esque. When Moisic struck up Chopin's
Funeral March the throng was positively
electrified. It required no imagination to
see the grand piano as a huge coffin and the
pianist’s face as a death’s head. When the
playing stopped a profound silence fell. It
was finally broken by the biggest outburst
of popular emotion any Melbourne concert-
goer had heard.
“Cauboy”: The importation of the Austra-
lian Prof. Oliphant as a lecturer opens up new
prospects of gain, pecuniary and otherwise.
The average violin- or piano-playing virtuoso
requires heavy advertising, as the vast bulk of
the population has never heard of him until
the Australian entrepreneurs take him up:
and as an investment he is not always a
foregone conclusion. But there are leading
English and American publicists and literary
men who' are household words to thousands
of Australians who have never read a line
they have written —they are always news in
the pictorial press. There are a dozen or more
of them who would fill the largest halls in
the country if they could be induced to
come here. I nominate 11. G. Wells, G. B.
Shaw, Chesterton, Bertrand Russell, Judge
Lindsey, Einstein, Winston Churchill and
H. L. Mencken, amongst others. Conan
Doyle played to packed houses both here and
in MX., and even such a big scientific gun
as Ernest Rutherford enjoyed a successful
season when he toured the country with his
remarkable melodrama, “Unmasking the
Electron.”
“L.H.P.”: The late .T. P. Sousa composed
a number of comic operas. Very few of
these, however, were exported. The excep-
tions were “The Charlatan,” played at the
London Comedy as “The Mystical Miss,” and
“El Capitan.” The latter, the best of a
round dozen of similar opuses, is located in
Peru during the Spanish conquest. Chas.
Klein wrote the libretto, which is wedded to
some of the sprightliest of the late March
King’s music.
“Lights”: Former Sydney reporter Jack
Farrow, latterly one of Hollywood’s scenario-
writers, has been engaged by Basil Dean as
“chief adviser in story production,” what-
ever that may mean, at the Radio Studios,
Ealing (Eng.). Farrow, who is still young, is
a product of Newington College, Sydney. He
went to sea as a cabinboy. While on
the vessel that carried Robert Flaherty to
make “Moana of the South Seas” he caught
the scenario-writing itch, and 1924 witnessed
his arrival at, Hollywood. Cecil de Mille
engaged him almost at once to do the titles
for “White Gold,” and he’s, written dia-
logues for Paramount and United Artists.


it
ECONOMIC NEWS”
ORIGINAL. READABLE. FREE FROM
PROPAGANDA. THE MOST INFORMA-
TIVE AND UP-TO-DATE NEWS.
“Our purchasing power, our goodwill and our
brains are not being used.... there are towers of
babel Sailing directions for normal conditions do
not govern sound seamanship in a hurricane....
merely to see a little further than is common is not
to see far enough.... Common sense has failed.’’
FOR AUSTRALIANS WHOSE
BRAINS ARE FREE.
PRICE Is. 6d. EACH. ALL BOOKSHOPS,
ALL STATES, OR POST FREE FROM
THE BUREAU OF ECONOMICS,
BRISBANE.
“On the‘creation of credit the average person has
as much knowledge as the aboriginal on the creation
of life, and as much superstition.’’
Monetary Policy and the Practicable Alternative
to Inflation and Douglasism.
Here is light without heat.
By J.
“CREDIT”
B. BRIGDEN. Price 1/6
•m
.‘* *
m
it
4
am
m
mm
m
THE GENUINE WATERPROOF BLUEY
MINERS’ BLUEY (Guaranteed Waterproof).
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSTONE BROS. PTY., LTD.,
Derwent Woollen Mills, Hobart.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted trom
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
re
si
•A
\
6
s-
(Pticc cf duyaA ?
Jedk U4uk\ yea* <te& M&lad /
DEAR FELLOW CITIZENS:
An awful lot of rubbish is written about the price of sugar, and you
are being told some extraordinary tales about the “enormous profits that
we are making. It is time, we growers think, that someone told you the
truth so that you won’t be guilty of spreading any of these untruths yourselves.
Let me tell you something about costs.
When the sugar-cane is cut on our farms it has to be transported to
the sugar mill, often many miles away. It is bulky stuff, and the la or
involved is heavy. Then it has to be crushed and the juice manufactured
into raw sugar, a costly, elaborate and highly-techmcal process. The raw
sugar has to be bagged and carried to the steamer. All these operations
carried out under tropical conditions, at tropical wages rates, and they
involve very large capital investment. Yet the cost of all these operations
is no more than the cost of distributing the sugar in your city.
After the refined sugar leaves the Sugar Company’s hands in your city,
the cost of getting it into your pantry is as much as that of all the operations
I have mentioned. The cost of distributing refined sugar to the public m
the cities is £5/8/3 a ton (14/11 to wholesale merchants, plus £4 13/4 to
retail grocers), whilst only £5/11/3 is spent on all the operations mentioned
above.*
We growers feel that those who are for ever crying out about the
"profits” of the sugar industry will find that the real cause of city prices lies
under their own noses.
Yours for efficiency,
ONE OF THE GROWERS.
*Sugar Enquiry Committee s Report, 1930.
inserted bij_ the
Sugar Cromers of Australia
for the. information of the S/eople
tC.S.M.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Svdnev Mayfair has two British produc-
Sydney - y . tle an( j sentiment,
SdS; ff i ‘
West-End night club is *M£ e
ness (the gems are smuggled into nmgnum
ness tine „ . ( ; r ev’s brother is in-
and} Mr. * Terry attends to the frus-
tration of villainy. The tempo is slow, and
the methods of the players make if seem
slower. Mr. Terry in particular lounges
through his perilous experiences as if he had
vvrpi crhts to his iCGt. •O-p ,
equipped to register the phlegm for which
oE is famed on the Continent, having
the face and figure of a •T)uid a ”Guardsman
hut he overdoes it. As, for exampie when
lie engages in a rough-and-tumble fight 11
a burning building with the subsidiary vil-
lain? jumps for Safety into a sheet held
by the firemen, and arrives in the street with
his horn-rimmed spectacles on and intact .
But he gives an interesting performanc ,
and so does Miss Grey. In addition to an
attractive voice she has beauty—intelligent
beauty which so many of Hollywooas
chocolate-box stars lack. The photography
is clever and the night-club scenes are oom-
plctely un-American and right. J ' u |f as a
citizen of the U.S.A. watching a Mm re-
presentation of an evening at a speakeasy
half the patrons drunk, a revolver duel and
a police raid to conclude— might say This
is New* York,” so any Englishman watching
this representation of stone-sober ie\ el .
might fairly say “This is London.
“The Blue Danube,” which follows, is a
British Dominions picture, but the hero,
seductress, and most of the supers are Ger-
mari-American, German or Hungarian,
and the general effect is that of a German
lilm, The action drags, the outlook on Me
is portentously solemn, and . the comedy,
which is of the unconscious variety, is cine v
supplied by the afflicted hero, Mr. Belli d-
kraut. Brigitte Heim is his ruination, bne
arrives as a countess at the gypsy camp,
where he and Dorothy Bouchier are happy,
and lures him away. So Dorothy marries
Desmond Jeans, an Austrian officer. m
this kind of film, as in many German
romances of the nineteenth century, the
philanderer is never forgiven by his creator,
and agonises through life in steadily deterior-
ating garments, perpetrating one idiocy after
another, till both his loves turn from him
in despair. Joseph Schildkraut makes the
deserted musician an exceptionally moronish
character, and a painful stage arrived on
Saturday night when there were sniggers
from the audience whenever he _ appeared.
The sensuous writhings of Brigitte Helm
—very old-fashioned stuff —also _ got some
disconcerting laughs. _ It isn’t as if the show
were offered disarmingly as opera, which
lias a tradition of unreality: its form is
rhapsodical romance with incidental music.
Hollywood is scoring with the sophisticated
younger generation all over the world just
because it never tears an infatuation to
tatters even in its sloppiest productions.
The features are the beautiful sets and
photography and the. rendering of fetrauss
music by a famous Tzigane band, xou don t
know how exciting a waltz can be till jou
hear these Hungarians play ’ I he Blue
Danube.”
¥ *
“Amateur Daddy” (Fox), at Sydney Regent,
introduces Warner Baxter as the protector of
a batch of orphans, the eldest of whom is a
self-reliant lass in her teens. Baxter has
promised the father—killed in a bridge acci-
dent—to succor the brood without suspecting
what he was in for. The actual handling of
the children is easy enough. He feeds,
bathes and sings the smaller ones to sleep,
and runs the household with the efficiency ot
a trained nurse. But one of the neighbors
is a scoundrel who covets the orphans’
property. His wife is a modern Mis. 1 oti-
phar and when Baxter rejects her advances
she turns against him. The location is an
isolated American settlement ruled by a
puritanical faction. The innocent Baxter is
attacked as the seducer of the maiden men-
tioned above. ITe triumphs in a court case
which makes him the legal guardian of the
children, and he further consolidates lus posi-
tion and theirs by striking Ml. There is an
unexpected twist at the end when it tran-
spires that he has mistakenly been looking
after the wrong family, but it doesn t affect
the outcome. The action is brisk, and the love
scenes are handled with restraint. Marion
Nixon is winsome as the flapper.
“Strangers in Love” (from Locke’s “The
Shorn Lamb”), at the same house, gives
Frederic March another dual role, that ot
two brothers. He is Arthur, the semi-mvalid,
and Buddy, the vagabond. March brings it oft
with distinction, and his double appearance in
the one scene is a tribute to the technicians
of Hollywood. Buddy, who is on the bread-
line, goes to his brother for financial aid.
Arthur refuses, but dies of a heart attack
before Buddy leaves. Buddy divines that
Arthur has stolen his share of the family
fortune, and decides to masquerade as the
deceased, and get evidence. Among the
obstacles which confront him are the vyomen
who have been mixed up with Arthur in one
capacity and another. There are the charm-
ing Diana (Kay Francis) and the spitetui
Muriel (Juliette Compton).; also there are
friends who believed Arthur a blameless
Egyptologist, and crooks who aided him to
fake a will. So Buddy goes through a
troublesome time, but, as he gains the be-
witching Diana in the end and the Drake
fortune to keep her clothed and fed, he has
nothing to complain of.
Sydney State otters a brace of comedies
from Blstree. “To-night’s the Night
might have been written by thc Ld tor 1
“Comic Cuts.” It is mostly scenes or
violence underclothing and stale puns. The
Tove Race” has rather more polish and a less
fntile Sot but it is miles below the average
Powley consorts with the younger Mostyns
desDite his father s objections. He ta . -
fon? of his fiancee. his prospective
mother-in-law’s second husband, a Strang
female who drops casually into the piciui _
and allows herself to be introduced upturn
as his sister and his wife, and a
favorite who threatens him vuth breacno:
promise. Stanley Lupino, as the erring son,
and Jack Hobbs, as his best fnend. team
well, and Frank Perfitt is also beat able.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 ~ Oct. 18
. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 25
:|: Anchises 10,000 ~ Nov. 29
•First class only t First and third class.
■ t Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross ’for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
AH truck sizes
Also full stocks of new tyros and tubes, also .T.0.T1. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or 'phone.
’PHONE 81110. 'PHONE BUIO.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
w
S'\
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . .... 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Booraby”: A crojee, or wise man, of a
Richmond River clan years ago told me all
about the place of unrest and torment where
the bad Bingliis go. It swarms with flies,
ants, fleas, ticks, lice, mosquitoes and bugs ;
the ground is covered with thorns, burrs and
stinging nettles; the food and water are
scanty and putrid, and the air is always vile
—with a stench akin to dead goannas in it.
“A terribly stinkin’ place,” said the old
chap, after cataloguing all the terrors and
worries of his mundane existence and dump-
ing them in the vale of the damned. There
is no everlasting fire. Fire is the friend and
comfort of Binghi’s earthly life, and the
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
YOUNG WITER: “The art in story-telling consists of knowing what to leave unsaid.”
HIS MARRIED FRIEND : “It doesn’t make much difference, my boy—my experience is
that she finds out, anyway.”
symbol of home. In his Purgatory nothing
will burn and it is always cold and dismal,
However, Yulutahna. the Great Spirit, is
merciful. The wicked Binghi suffers in the
land of torment for so many moons, accord-
ing to the sins lie has committed, and then
is allowed to go to his fellows in the Happy
Hunting Grounds. It is a long journey, and
the way is encumbered with exasperating
obstacles that take him a long time to get
over, but eternal happiness awaits the worst
of sinners.
:!•• * *
“Sanna’s Post’": It is quite possible, as
“Ex-Cavalryman” says (B. 8/6/’32), that
Fillis was at one time instructor at the
cavalry equitation school at Petrograd. Aus-
tralia first saw him in the
early ’nineties when he brought
his big show- from Eastern
Asia. I am not mixing up my
Fillises. The Fillis whi
wrote the book on horseman
ship was the Cape Dutchman
(not Frenchman) who is best
known as a circus-proprietor.
“Coot”: There seems to b:
an established order of prece-
dence among the diners on the
bank of the lake in the Syd-
ney Botanical Gardens. First
of all the swans make leisurely
repast, dipping their beaks de-
liberately into the water aftei
each pick. Ducks and water
hens wait patiently in tin
background. It is only when tin
swans are well clear of tin
board that the understrapper:
come hurrying from all direr
tions to flounder on the bank
and feast. They drop off, one
by one, according to then-
capacity, to make room for tin
sparrows and pigeons, win
have been biding their oppor
tunity in near-by branches
These do not display the tab!
manners of the ducks, who. b\
the same token, are not nearly
so well-behaved as the swans.
When the cravings of feathered
stomachs have been tempor-
arily assuaged, according to
the sequence of social status,
the remnants of the meal are
left to the water-rats. The
ceremony is reminiscent of the
days when barons threw -their
half-picked chops over their
shoulders to their henchmen,
who, in turn, heaved the much
morsels back to their servihg-mon
“Larrapinta”: “Tidapa” is harking up a
tree which has no ’possum in it when he
accuses me of using for bait an octopus
which any museum would have been willing
to pay handsomely to secure (B. l/6/'32).
I have been collecting for museums most of
my life. At the time when I helped use that
octopus for bait there was neither means
of transport to Adelaide nor material in
which to preserve the creature available.
Anyway, the Adelaide Museum already had
a fine specimen. I repeat that a swift,
drawing slash of a sheath-knife will sever the
tentacles just as easily as those of a squid,
......
“Wobbe”: “Tidapa’s” theory that “the
biggest octopus reported in Australian waters
has had tentacles just short of 4ft. long
and a body about the size of a football” is
ridiculous. Only the other day a schoolboy
hooked a specimen from Largs Bay jetty,
Adelaide, measuring 7ft. 6in. Allowing three
feet for the body the tentacles were 4ft. 6in.
long, and the body was a whole lot larger
than a football. This was only a pier-
water specimen. An octopus captured in
Hobson’s Bay (Vic.) in March. 1930.
measured 10ft. across, its tentacles being at
THE WRONG DAY AGAIN.
DISGUSTED ANGLER : “I thought you said there were plenty fish down here?"
JACKIE: “My word! Cart come along ebery Friday—sell it plenty good-pfeller fish.”
least Gft. long. The largest on record was
one which was found stranded on the coast.
According to no less an authority than
Charles Barrett this monster had a body
jOft. long and its tentacles ran to 42ft.
'I- * :J: >!:
. “Mako”: Should the Maoris invoke the
aid of the god of volcanoes (B. S/6/’32) to
make matters more lively for speedsters on
the Ninety-mile Beach, the deity will re-
occupy an ancient stronghold. Although
North Auckland has been quiescent within
the. memory of Maori and pakeha there was
a time when that area was in a state of up-
heaval. Geologists assert that many of the
oddly-shaped cylindrical masses of rock that
are found towards the west coast are the
denuded cores of ancient volcanoes, and the
country about Ohaeawai is ringed with
mountains that once belched fire over the
land. Te Ngawha Hot Springs, a miniature
Rotorua, is the last area of any importance
still showing volcanic symptoms on a large
scale, though there are hot springs scattered
over the countryside at intervals, and the
heavy deposits of rock and scoria show r that
the eruptions in bygone ages were worthy of
the traditions of the land. Old Sophia, the
famous. Rotorua guide, now dead some years,
maintained that the great Tarawera eruption
was the result of the breaking of the tapu
set on that mountain, some young men of
the Te Arawa tribe having succumbed to
the lure of the wild honey on Tarawera, and
by their desecration brought down the wrath
of the atua, with terrible loss of life.
* * :;= :J;
“Bogi” : I can heartily endorse “Pioneer’s”
recommendation of flying-fox as an addition
to limited menus. In those allegedly para-
disaical . isles of the South Seas where the
everlasting bulamakau and tinned salmon
oppress the soul, the big bat forms a pleas-
ing variant to the monotony. Considering
that he lives entirely on fruit, and that of
the best quality, it is small wonder that his
flesh should be so succulent. His ancient
and bat-lfke smell vanishes when he is
skinned. One tip, however. Never attempt
to skin your fox yourself. There is nothing
lousier under the vault of Heaven.
“FY7”: When a city man hears a bush-
man talk of a kangaroo as a dangerous beast
he looks at the man from the wilds with sur-
prise. Nevertheless there are many noto-
riously ferocious beasts which are less to -be
feared than an old man hopper when his
dander is up. The red variety of macropus
has an uglier disposition than his grey
brother. ‘An instance came to hand last
week when Dave King, of Rylstone (N.S.W.).
was lucky to escape with his life from a
battle with an old kangaroo warrior which
had taken to the water and killed King’s
dog. He went in after the hound and in
the subsequent mix-up had his clothes
ripped off him. He was bleeding copiously
from a dozen wounds when he was fortu-
nate enough to lay hold of a stick and out
the aborigine. Writer had a similar experi-
ence years ago when trying to snapshot a
big kangaroo held up by two dogs, lie was
peering into the finder when an avalanche fell
on him. In the melee most of his clothes
were torn off by the kangaroo’s forepaws, and
only the fact that he was wearing a leather
belt which caught the formidable claw of
the ’roo’s hindleg in its downward stroke
saved further unpleasantnesses.
* * * *
“Hoinfrey Beale” : The length of time for
which some blind birds and animals manage
to forage an existence is remarkable. In
Lightning Paddock, a gold-bearing area 24
miles from Tullamore (N.S.W.), a totally
sightless mallee hen successfully fought the
depression caused by her affliction for over
three years, and then only succumbed to a
rabbit trap cruelly planted in her haunts. On
Lightning Ridge opal-field during my time
there was a quite blind porcupine that was
known to have been in that condition for
at least eight years. Pore’s chief trouble
was falling down shafts, but being well and
favorably known to the miners he was
always afforded a passage in the bucket. A
fall into a shaft containing several feet of
water settled his hash. While I lived at
Katanning (W.A.), a blind peewee, said to
have been there for a couple of years, mar-
ried and had a family.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: I can tell “FY7” (B. l/6/’32)
of another case in which the game turned a
gun against the hunter. After firing at a
’possum in a tall tree on Tantawanglo moun-
tain (N,S.W.), my cobber, George Knight,
stood under, waiting for the wounded animal
to fall. He watched the ’possum lurching
unsteadily on the branch for a time, then
impatiently reloaded for a finishing shot.
As he placed the cartridge the furry fellow
above released his grasp and in falling
clutched at the gun. George spent the next
six weeks in camp with a shattered foot.
* * *
“Yarn”: Gilgandra (N.S.W.) has the
most brittle-boned man in the country—
perhaps on earth —in Alfred Heiler, who has
registered more breaks than the number of
his years—now approaching the half-cen-
tury. Forty times he has had a leg or an
arm broken, whilst fingers and ribs have
also figured in the casualties. This victim
of osteomalacia has collapsed at most un-
expected times. His legs have snapped under
him while waltzing; and once, while riding
on the local racecourse, he stood up in the
stirrups to give the horse a gallop, and the
sudden pressure snapped the props like
carrots. His son. Reg, is a chip off the
old block; he had sustained 10 fractures
before he was 12 years of age.
THE CAMEL TEAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The camel team goes grunting on,
Still groaning, moaning, sighing.
The day has only just begun,
And many hours have still to run;
Perhaps that’s why they’re crying.
They groaned beside the waves of Nile—
Oh, they were born complaining!
They sigh as only camels can;
They’ve moaned like that since Time began,
- Against their Kismet straining.
And now on Queensland sands they pace,
Still groaning, as befits their race.
They carry wool instead of dates
To where the train at railhead waits.
They move in massed formation —not
In single file, as in the hot
Sands where their breed first toiled for man,
With Abdul for custodian.
Now gone is Abdul. In his place
A man on horseback riding,
Sharp cracks a whip and keeps a store
Of alien oaths for chiding.
And dogs run underneath the dray—
Dogs were despised in Abdul’s day.
And yet of Egypt there’s a trace—
The desert sands, the plodding pace,
The sunset glare, the sunrise glow,
The sentry stepping to and fro,
Mirages and the evening calm
And the bright constellations’ balm.
QUEENSLAND.
MARY GUTHRIE.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at. London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people, of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local.
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., frpm
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
“Denison” : Tas. Fauna Board, alarmed at
the decrease in the density of the flocks of
wild swans that have hitherto blackened the
face of Moulting Lagoon, the East Coast
nesting-grounds of Mary Gilmore’s beautiful
friends, has decided to recommend the Gov-
ernment to place the birds on the fully-pro-
tected list. Though shooting of swans is
illegal on the mainland, Tasmania still
keeps an open season of three or four months,
except on the rivers Derwent and Tamar
and one or two other nominal sanctuaries.
Of recent years petrol vehicles have brought
vast secluded breeding-places like Moulting
Lagoon within week-end gunshot, and the
“sport” has on occasion developed into whole-
sale slaughter.
“Dry”: A case recently reported from
England, where a bale of wool soaked in
tar was used to fill a big hole in a road and
proved surprisingly durable, repeats a dis-
covery made recently at Tyrone, on the
blacksoil plains of N.S.W. The road in
wet weather was awful, so some ingenious
bloke filled the wheel-tracks with wool, which
proved the ideal stuff for the purpose.
i-:
“Hamer”: Mouse-farms have appeared in
England as the latest development of the
fur-raising industries; there were over 600
exhibits at a mouse-show recently
held, and their value was claimed to
be £lOOO, the value of special bucks
reaching £lO. As in the Angora
rabbit industry in N.S.W..
women ai-e chiefly concerned; one
of them has recently purchased
eight acres which she is going to
turn into a mouse-farm. Mouse-
skin slippers are amongst the com-
mercial articles that have made the
idea profitable. Wild fur-yielding
animals, once plentiful, are rapidly
disappearing, and the world demands
THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN.
SEO: “You know, white-men fashion is one man one wife."
SESEWA: “Yes-, mission-school taught us. They call our fashion polygamy
their fashion monotony.”
substitutes: so it seems there will be a
chance yet for the man with the cat-and-rat
farm proposition.
“Inlander”: Some of our salt lakes (B.
S/6/’S2) occur at altitudes of 1000 ft. and
over, and useful salt is obtained in most of
them. A lake in Sturt’s Creek. Westralia.
which is salt for the greater part of the year,
lias fresh springs near its banks. Waterlioles
there, as on the lower Georgina in Queensland,
are salt at one end and fresh at the other.
These are all on creeks or rivers having no
outlet to the ocean; but on the Ord River,
which falls into Cambridge Gulf, mere is a
salt pan 200 miles inland and 600 feet above
sea level which supplies the stations with
good salt. Lake Buchanan, of which “Frigid”
writes, gets its designation from that adven-
turous pioneer the late Nat Buchanan, whose
name, in river, mountain and lake, can be
traced westward on the map right across
North Australia.
“Patent Log” : No need for
“Donk” to skite about the
way mules can travel in the
New Guinea mountains (11.
11/5/’32). Up here oil the:
Bulolo we’ve got girls better
than any mule. Two of them
the other day decided to visit
some friends on Black Cat
Creek. This is only 17 miles
from the Bulolo, but there
is a lot of New Guinea in be-
tween, stuck up edgeways. It
was put to the damsels that
even the men of the locality
would think twice of going
out and back in a day, and
the betting went wide out
when they reckoned they would
do it. Most of the journey was
along a creek bed with leeches
ad lib. The girls reached
their objective, and after a
spell and some lcai got back
again at sundown. Their
names are Dorothy Stewart and Thelma
Anderson.
“Hauler” : A fancier friend gives the palm
for marital faithfulness to the pigeon.
Annoyed at the determined mismating of a
pair of alien species in his pigeon-house, in
spite of every effort —including confinement
with lovers lie had selected for them —he
decided to sell the hen. All efforts to induce
the lonely swain to pair with any of the
other hens were futile; he would lose his
temper with them and drive them away with
angry pecks. Finally the owner decided to
get the original hen back, but. found that
the buyer, having been unable to induce
it to pair off with any of the males of his
loft, had sold it to some chance purchaser,
name unknown. The other day my friend
found one more bird than he expected in his
loft and recognised the newcomer. So did
the lonely swain, who was deliriously happy.
The lien' bird had been away for over 1M
months.
“Wongsokromo” : I have doubts about the
theory that the remarkable sunsets seen in
Melbdurne, Adelaide, Wellington and other
places are due to the dust sent up by a
Chilean eruption (15. <S/< >•>-■)• As the
alleged cause is 10 or 15 miles up. ir seems
to be scientific guesswork, anyway. If vol-
canic dust causes unusual sunsets, then Java
should be famous for them, because, as the
island contains some 40 active volcanoes,
the air is always full of the disjecta membra
of the earth’s interior. In fact, it is super-
saturated. When one is writing a letter this
dust settles so thickly as to require wiping
off continually; sometimes it even serves
like the sand our forefathers used for blot-
ting-paper. Yet Java’s sunsets, as elsewhere
in the tropics, are generally dingy, lhe
gorgeous tropical sunset was a creation of
musicomedy producers. Those of Melbourne
and Sydney, dust or no dust, are on the aver-
age better, and their finest specimens cannot
be approached by the equatorial sky-painters.
“Ehoa”: Tell “Mako” (B. 18/5//32) it
isn’t necessary for South Island Maorilanders
to make pilgrimage to outlying islands to
hear bellbirds chime. In every hamlet between
the dividing range and the west coast, from
('ape Farewell to Puysegur Point, the song
WHAT’S AN INCH IN
A MILE!
ANGRY BACKER: “ Tomtit, ye said!
Then you’re a liar! Why, the
second harrse won by a neck."
JUDGE: “Thell wid ye! Pfwhat’s a nick in a big paddick loike this!"
of the mako make may be heard throughout
the year. After the first impact with civili-
sation which destroyed much of the forest
and natural food supply, the birds dwindled
greatly in numbers. They have now reacted
strongly to new conditions. Plentiful every-
where in the native bush, they are also fre-
quent visitors to private and public gardens,
where they forage fearlessly for food and smg
gladly, finding abundance of suitable susten-
ance in many flowering exotic trees and
shrubs. As 1 write I am enjoying a bellbird
chorus, the concert chamber being a clump
of blue gums. By the way, the female of the
species is a better and more frequent per-
former than the male.
“Waranbini” : Though thousands of abos.
have been entrusted with firearms, and most
of them make good shots, they have never
used the gun against one another, so far
as I know, and I don’t think more than
half a dozen whites, from
the time of the murder of
explorer Baxter, have
been shot by them. Most
of the shootings have
been done by half-castes.
In their quarrels the
blacks fly to the nulla,
spear and boomerang;
and against white men
the spear and tomahawk
are generally used, though
the assassin might be a
crack shot and could
get a gun if he wanted it. I have known
white hunters who would not trust a black-
fellow behind them with a tomahawk, but
would ramble about all day with the same
darky when both w r ere kangaroo-shooting.
* * * *
“Dai II.” : The cunning of doe rabbits lias
me beaten. On each of five consecutive after-
noons I set 03 traps on a series of burrows
harboring hundreds of kittens, and on each
of five successive mornings found every trap
sprung and empty. Deciding that malice
aforethought was at work, I made the .sixth
set and watched from the surrounding scrub.
Just after sunset dozens of does appeared
from various pop-holes, and without wasting
time repaired each to a trap, and nosed round
a bit locating springs. Then the warren
became a series of small volcanoes spouting
sand as the does heaved themselves into the
air and came down on the safe end of a trap.
It was all over in a minute and the matrons
returned below. Ten seconds later the top
of the warren was alive with kittens playing
in the sand of the trap-sets. I went home
trying to think of a new swear-word.
“Bench Hand”: A firm of Sydney box-
makers got a shock when a big iron horse-
shoe was found deeply imbedded in a 36in.
pine log. Where the shock comes in is that
the only way to locate these curiosities is
for the power-driven saw to cut into them,
and that usually means the scrapping of an
expensive saw. Otherwise finds of this kind
surprise no accustomed sawmiller. Axeheads
or wedges are the usual discoveries, though
how they get there is a matter for discussion.
In this case the grain showed that the shoe
had been nailed to a tree outside Liverpool
(N S W. ) some 25 years ago, the new growth
gradually enclosing it, layer after layer, until
the shoes was some inches from the surface
of tlic wood. Most fencers have seen the same
tiling in the case of trees on old fence lines
which have been vised for straining posts. As
the years go on the encircling wires are
buried, as the horseshoe was.
“Wandi” : For homing instinct even the cat
has no points on the fresli-water turtle, or
tortoise, which can travel unerringly across
miles of country. For a couple of weeks 1
kept one in a small shallow tank, feeding it
on worms and fresh meat. It preferred the
worms, and its manner of taking them re-
minded me of a stalking goanna; it crept
stealthily towards the wriggler, and when
close enough shot its head forward and
grabbed it. I got the amphibian from a
waterhole about two miles away. Several
times when it managed to climb out of the
tank it set off straight towards that water-
hole. There was another hole much nearer
but Shellback wanted to go home. The
attempts to escape were always made at night.
Once I found it stuck in the gate. Another
morning a boy intercepted it crossing a road
near the waterhole; and finally it got there.
“Shadrack” : I’m fond of birds, but—well,
listen to this. Sometime ago a thickset
little bird with a strong beak, slightly
hooked, commenced visiting my verandah
and made a vigorous hunt for spiders and
blowflies. Its visits became so regular that
we looked on it as one of the family and
by degrees it took on the job of keeping the
whole house clean of insects. All went,
happily until one morning I was awakened
by something flopping on my chest, and the
next moment I was agonised by a sharp
peck which scented to nearly tear my eyelid
off. I rose, complaining bitterly, and in my
best striped pyjamas I chased that bird a
long, long way. If ever he shows his
little hooked beak in nay house again I will
take my double-barrelled guri and 1 will shoot
him fatally dead.
* * * ❖
“W.J.K.” : It isn’t easy to fool the Chinese,
but an acquaintance of mine did it for a
while in the roaring days of the Turon lliver
goldfields. His dad was a butcher, and my
friend made plenty of pocket money by sell-
ing the Orientals the gall-stones of the beasts
slaughtered for sale. The Chinese found
great solace in the chewing of a small piece
of one of the stones after opium-smoking.
As there were at times no stones in the
beasts killed. it: was necessary to
find a passable substitute. This he dis-
covered could be made of the yolk of an
extremely hardboiled egg. For this bogus
stone he received the usual three half-crowns.
But his deception was at last discovered and
the pigtails made so many and so terrible
threats that my friend quit the gall-stone
business for good, and even now feels a bit
uneasy when he sees a Chink in the offing.
JENOLAN WALLABIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The wallabies that hop and laze
About Jcnolan’s sheltered ways
Have picked a quite ideal spot
For toil-free living, have they not.'
Their fellows of the sylvan space
Have food to find and foes to face.
And those in zoos who’re domiciled
Must miss the freedom of the wild.
But they’ve free board and freedom, these
Favored Jenolan wallabies.
The patient guides must sometimes find
Their task a devil of a grind,
Each day haranguing new conclaves
Of visitors in glitt’ring caves,
Telling the story o’er and o’er
They’ve told a thousand times before,
And making phantom fancies plain
Again, again and yet again.
What time there wait, in dreamful ease
Without, Jenolan wallabies.
The tourists, though they pant and tire,
Are still expected to admire
Each fresh exhibit that they see
In Nature’s halls of statuary.
'Tis hard to find expressions new
And apt for half that meets your view.
But these marsupials, mute and mum,
Command their gratis pabulum
By hopping round in twos and threes,
Jenolan’s cherished wallabies.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .-. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 300 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
0 0
Directors *
TT *iift~*ci .o T SSP RGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon - M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
. EDWABD MTCm| L KNbx. D " OWEN ESMOND FRIEND:
General Manager: J. R. DRYHTJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
D , x , London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
pl^, Ch i eS T thr v llSh ° Ut A Quee . nslai J d > New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
. world.
e a T-r- i- vr -.‘fiU,oT^ S , of , Bankin g' ari(l Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Circumstances
and CHOICE
Circumstances compel some people to holiday at
winter-time.
Others do it from choice—they’ve ski-ed and tobogganed
through exhilarating days and danced through cosy evenings
at Mt. Buffalo National Park before.
During the four weeks of the official Mt. Buffalo snow-sports season
in July-August, the tariff at the luxurious Chalet for those staying more
than 48 hours is only 1 7s. 6d. a day. At other times it is 1 ss. Book
now at Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or
Martin Place, Sydney.
The Chalet, MT, BUFFALO National Park (Vic.)—for Australia's
best holiday!
SMOKE-OH!
Another explanation of the Lang debacle
is that “Gentlemen prefer Bonds.”
'%•
“The policemen jumped from a moving ram and
set out in pursuit of the thieves.”— “S. it/. Herald.”
Rather appropriate that a ram should
have aided the fleeced.
AUTHOR: “I’ve got a good tale here about a man and
two women on a desert island.”
EDITOR: “Good Heavens, man, that plot’s as old as
the hills!”
AUTHOR: “Not this one—these women are his wife and
his wife’s mother!”
A sad feature of polling day was that it
threw thousands of interjectors out of em-
ployment.
ANOTHER BLOW TO THE STAGE.
“Messrs. J. and N. Tait present Professor Oli-
phant in his lecture, ‘Ourselves.’ ” — Advt.
Also, commencing at the matinee, Satur-
day, Professor Bones in his thrilling expose,
“Splitting the Atom.”
Poignant. Breath-taking. You will grip
your seat as the black soul of the atom is
revealed by the Master, stripped bare in
all its Stark Nakedness!
The Theatrical Sensation of the Century!
On the same programme: Professor Molly-
cule in his airy, witty, sophisticated, ultra-
modern exposure of the Sins of Scientists.
“Physico-Chemical Researches into
Thermo-Dynamics.”
Bring the family and give the kiddies a
treat! It’s good clean fun from start to
finish.
During the Intermission Jack Einstein
and his Equation-Solvers.
J. P.
¥ ¥
“The Americans talked and smoked, the women
lighting their cigarette with the fish.”— “Argus.”
In Australia we still stick to the old-
fashioned match.
¥ *
“I knitted him a pull-over but he threw it on
the floor.” — Melb. “Herald.”
Purls before swine again.
it- *
A family causes trouble, there is not the
slightest doubt.
The modern child is hard to discipline —
You’re either worried as to how the dashed
boys will turn out,
Or as to when your daughters will turn in.
it it
“The Vie. Ministry is out to balance the budget.”
— “Argus.”
The Lang Ministry is out because it
failed to balance it.
it tt
IN DISPRAISE OF MORAL
VICTORIES.
Enough’s as good as a feast, I know, and
virtue is its own reward; man wants but
little here below—l learnt all that when,
small and bored, I, in disfigured copybooks,
made blots and scratches, strokes and hooks
while knowledge was instilled in me. It
may be true, but let not,
Lord, mine be the moral
victor-ee!
Enough’s as good as a
feast? To eat at banquets
grand I make no plea; more
than enough is good enough
for simple-hearted coves like
me. As for my wants, I
want a lot —a dashed sight
more than I have got. Plea-
sant are conquests, I agree :
but not the moral victor-ee !
When I am biffed, do you
suppose “Here is a brick he
didn’t throw,” “He only hit
you on the nose,” offers me
solace for the blow? Give
me some beefsteak for my
eye, .some beer to wet my
whistle dry: put a nice girl
upon my knees, but never
try my woe to ease with talk
of moral victories!
“You are my guiding star,” she said,
When first they chose the wedded lot.
He proved her shooting star instead:
He teas for ever getting shot.
* V
“At 8.20 Mr. N. Rivers in a humorous item,
‘Beer.’ ”
A broad-cask, presumably.
¥
“Drapery shares usually fall off in midwinter.
Business gets much brisker in the summer.”
That being when the mercery goes up.
# *
“Some of the giants of the mat do more clowning
than wrestling.”
Fellows of infinite chest!
* *
HIB KICK.
There was a little sheik, and his hair was
nice and sleek,
And with married ladies he was quite a hit.
hit, hit:
“Life,” he sighed, “is dull and grey, and
to boredom is inclined,
And to chase the blues away some excite-
ment I must find —
So I linger by her side till her hubby we’ve
espied,
And I mostly get a good ldek-out of it,
it, it!”
T. P.
¥ *
“Now that the danger of Langism is passed, money
will be spent.”— “S.M.H.”
Previously it was pent.
“To-day Australians must show their backbone.”
—Prime Minister Lyons.
What else were our beach girls doing all
last summer?
We’re seeking an Otta-way out.
GUFF GLOSSARY.
“Brilliant.”- —Brightest word in proud
lexicon of sporting scribes. Was used 59,278
times during last, cricket season. Has already
passed 10,000 mark during
current football season. Can
be used ad lib., ad infin. and
ad nauseam.
“Wonder Boy.”- — I.e., Brad-
man. Discovered originally
by promising cub on Sydney
“D.T.” Shares in Ass. News-
papers rose immediately to
2s. 2d. Patent rights in “D.T.”
until 1934.
“The Dying Embers of a
Great Game” (exclusive rights
to “Sunday Sun and Guar-
dian”). —Classic example of
universality in literature, be-
ing applicable equally to re-
serve-grade matches or inter-
national fixtures.
“Dazzling Burst of Be-
wildering Speed.”— Suitable
for all sports except bowls,
ludo and chess. Beauty lies
in adaptability, as it can be
twisted conveniently ( e.g ., be-
wildering burst of dazzling
speed, burst of dazzling, be-
wildering speed, etc., etc.).
Handy whore writer has
mislaid his thesaurus.
“ Sun-bronzed Surf Gods.”
—This old favorite is vitiated
if put in without its conco-
mitants : “Physique like Vik-
ings of old,” “clean-limbed
Australians,” “magnificent
specimens of virile manhood,”
“sun-tanned Adonises,” etc.,
etc. Gives a vicarious thrill
to elderly unmarried females,
and is always good for a
horse-laugh in the surf clubs.
“Screaming Drive Down
the Fairway.” —Should always
be put in full in case non-
golfing readers think the
player has done a screaming
drive down the green. Can
be applied to any shot with
a wood that isn’t a straight-out foozle.
‘‘Expenditure on main roads has been one of the
factors in Australia’s financial plight.”
In fact, they’re known to some as our
main inroads 1 .
"Are you still making those splendid draw-
ings?”
"Well, yes, I hope so.”
"Will you show me where they are hung?”
“Excuse me, Madame, aren’t you mistaken?
I’m your dentist.”
ESCHYLEAN.
“Bankrupt said lie owed £l5 for hair-restorer.
it had not made his hair grow.”
"Thatchostimulusits name was. “It can
make hair grow on bricks,”
Lied the legend on the label, and the price
was ten-and-six.
Sparse my locks were when I first heard:
“Rub in ‘Thatcho,’ day and night ”;
'Gainst the pallid hosts of dandruff 1 ’had
waged a losing fight.
“Hymenwal curls will follow” —thus the
vendor of the stuff.
"If it saves what 1 hart left,” I countered,
“it will be enough.”
Like the Cytherean rising from an ocean of
despair '
Rose my heart as I poured “ Thatcho” for
the first time on my hair.
I ain the merchant’s {/losing promise, vain
his poppy-seeded dream
Of a head like Antinous with the lights of
youth a gleam!
Is- I write, Tausanius enters by my open
study door,
Beans my skull, and gives his verdict: “You
are balder than before.”
This the hydra-headed wrong is that the
chemist. Rhetor, did:
He has added to my baldness, and I owe
him fifteen quid.
J. D.
FRUIT SALAD.
Since my ripe love and floicery speech
Are fruitless, I’ll ho longer sigh,
But waft a raspberry to the peach
Who was the apple of my eye.
T. N.
RED LETTER DAY.
(IDYLL OF THE DEPRESSION.)
My bankruptcy morn !
What a thrill! I doubt if
there is anything to touch
it for sheer zip, with the
possible exception of one’s
execution morn.
All is bustle and excite-
ment about the home. It's
“Where’s his Statement of
Affairs?” here, and “For
goodness .sake find his Proof
of Debts” there. Just as
the taxi is moving off mother
rushes out, her dear face
alight with eagerness fo
help, and forces a suitcase
full of old writs on me. “I
thought they might come in
handy,” she explains wist-
fully. And then they turn
out to be part of father's
collection ! You can imagine
the merry peals of laughter.
But time presses. Off we
dash eourtwards, followed by a shower of
good wishes and judgment summonses, and
with a brand-new oa rc order tied to the
tail-light.
One never quite recaptures the sensation
caused by the initial whiff of the Insolvency
jurisdiction. The blended aromas of dust,
disinfectants, sealing-wax, old clothes, old
boots and older lawyers produce an unfor-
gettable whole. Yet, as in the case of 1840
brandy, the olfactory senses soon get accus-
tomed to it, leaving the charmed ear to
concentrate on the flute-like tones of the in-
terrogating officials.
Registrar: “Come now, Mr. Langplan, what about
that £50?”
Bankrupt: “What about it?”
R: “What did you do with it ?”
B.: “Damifino, unless 1 spent it?”
R.: “Come, come, Mr. Langplan, if there is any
further trifling with the Court you will be dealt
with, and that severely.”
Mr. Bliggs (or the name may be Jiggs): “Did
“The blackguard! And I suppose you were quite dis-
appointed when he told you he was a married
man!”
“No, Dad, he didn’t tell me till we were just coming
home, and then, of course, it didn’t matter.”
you in the late summer, or early autumn, of 1922
buy a suit of clothes in Armidale—or it may have
been WaggaY”
B.: “wnat if I did?”
Bliggs (fJiggs) : “Ah!”
R.: “We come to Dec. 5, 1923. Where were you
on that date?”
B.: “I’ve forgotten.”
Bliggs (?Jiggs) : “Quite.”
R.: “Had you any money ? Did you buy any-
thing, and, if not, why not? What was your financial
position when in the Seychelles on Jan. 3, 1924?”
And so it goes on, with everybody from the
Registrar down to the humblest tipstaff tak-
ing such a cordial, if slightly futile, interest
in one’s career that oue feels a sincere desire
to help. But all good things come to an
end. The shadow’s lengthen, a clock strikes,
the Court rises, the reporters write “Exami-
nation Adjourned.” Except for the congratu-
lations of family and friends on one’s bear-
ing, the posing for the press photographers,
the signing of autograph-books and the buy-
ing of the inevitable scrap-book for news-
paper cuttings, my Red Letter Day is; at an
end.
10-2-4.
THE WEARIN' O’ THE GREEN.
“Paris.—Eye shadows in bronze, green and bluish-
green are still popular, and the moss-green eyebrow
has grown in favor.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
1 met with Napper Tandy, an’ I took him
by the hand,
“An’ how are all the colleens now in France's
sunny land?”
'Tis the most chromatic counthry that ever
yet was seen,
Sure Mademoiselle of Paris now has eye-
brows of moss-green.”
VICTORIA.
N.C.


dkdthmlcehjew^
—the (fieatejt part (jfci
fkidio jei lj lutijible -
m
mmm
m
i
CnFfUKy
! HdtfßSS «
>.'■■■
a
m i
EIGHT-NINTHS of an iceberg—
the foundation of the whole
structure —are hidden under water.
So in a radio set —the essentials
are under the surface.
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
A. G. HEALING LTD.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin Street, C.l
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Streets
SYDNE’ r : 164-170 Goulburn Street
Retail Distributors
MELBOURNE: Healings Pty. Ltd., 101 Elizabeth Street, C.l.
HOBART AND LAUNCESTON: Medhurst & Sons Pty. Ltd.
PERTH: Bay’s Transport Ltd., 917 Hay Street.
SYDNEY: Rowe Street Radio, 21 Rowe Street.
Queensland Dealers write to—
R. J. ROSE, c/o T. W. MOSS & CO.
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane
%
fi
m
: ,vr
- r*i
ri#:
g&fcj
*#•
i'4>.
*g
TTEALING radio is different, because of the care that is taken
in perfecting these hidden details - - - - because it is so
conscientiously, so perfectly constructed. That is why its tone,
its range, its selectivity - - ,are so far beyond ordinary comparison.
One can only judge Healing radio by actual performance. Hear
it - - at once - - at your dealers.
Prices from £lB-18-0 to £5O-10-0
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
'm
: •: M
■"'rM
m
•im
M
m
1
r;i:X^
WMh
mm
mm
. ■
J
Well dressed
•• underneath
I TICiH up to the neck they go, these IRMA Winter
Vests, easy under the arms. . . .pants are roomy
just where required, fitting the legs snugly. That s the
Morley Undersuit for men and boys who want protection
against low temperature days.
There’s a shape and a weight and a texture of Morley’s
Underwear to satisfy every exacting taste; long sleeves,
no sleeves, short pants and long—just as you will. Wool as soft
as eiderdown, filmy or heavy weight; art silk, cotton and the
desired mixtures —all woven into undergarments with the care
and jealous attention that built up Morley’s 140 years’ British
reputation for quality.
Morley’s are Australian made, from Australian wool, by
Australian labor. Examine with critical eye these IRMA
products; check up on texture, workmanship, style and finish—
and then note with satisfaction the low prices asked. Clearly,
it will pay you to insist on IRMA Brand for all underwear
requirements.
AT ALL HIGH CLASS STORES.
Available in pure wool, wool and silk, wool and cotton, silk
and cotton, cotton and art-silk,
There’s a full range of IRMA and IRMALESE Underwear for
women also.
A
aaaa
IRMA
LET IRMA
BE YOUR
BODYGUARD
LiII.MOR.LEYS
WORLD FAMOUS UNDERWEAR
English Quality - Australian Ms. ofe
Factory Representatives jor I. and R. MORLEY PTY., LTD..
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth (for Q., Vic., S.A., W.A., Tas. and N. .),
C. J. SPAROWE, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney (for N.S.W.).
r&.y
f\(
te


II
SHE FEARED BAD HEALTH
Children love it.
F igsen the gentle
laxative.
CONSTIPATION is
DEPRESSING 4 CANCEROUS
Constipation is a serious matter —because it is responsible for
many of our present-day ailments. Failure of the system to
eliminate waste matter brings on headaches, indigestion, dizzi-
ness and biliousness. Figsen corrects constipation. Easy to
take and gentle and natural in action. No purging or griping.
Figsen restores natural bowel action without upsetting the most
delicate stomach. For adults and kiddies nothing can take the
place of Figsen.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
NMA
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Slopes, 3/3; Wise
Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The
Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception
—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant
Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; Sex Knowledge,
by N. March, 1/8 ; Love and Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3 • Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook,
5/4; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by
Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and, Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect
Wife, by Dr. 0. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11;
Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/C; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M.
Gallichan, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on Birth Control,
0/4; Canary Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simpliflad—A Complete Course of
Physical Culture, 6/3 ; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5 ; Knowledge a
Young Wife Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely
Outhbertson, 8/6; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become a n infective
Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/6; Menus Made Easy, by
Nancy Lake, 5/4; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by ltumseiy, 2/4; FoulShanVs Letter
Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton,
M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/8 ; Popular Card Games and
How to Play and Win, by F. Digs, 1/5; The Book of Luck, bv H. G. Souter, 1/5;; House’s
Canary Manual, 2/9; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter
Writer, 2/8; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11;
“PIGS IS PIGS,”
ELLIS PARKER BUTLER’S Masterpiece.
If you want to put your friend into a good humor, give him a copy of
“PIGS IS PIGS.”
Vest Pocket Edition, 1/1, Post Free.
Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; Wluit to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English
Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Iromvork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; .Every Man Ilis Own
Mechanic, 9/- ; Home Carpentry, 'by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Hook of Ready-made Speeches and
Toasts, 3/-; Hoot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
26/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
.(Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine, by
Jones—Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 6/3 ; 1001 Riddles, New and Old,
2/2; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/0; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to
Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Repair Manual, 4/7; Motor Electrical Manual,
4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9 ; Hypnotism
Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading- Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood—a
Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/- ;
Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on birth control, 1/8; The Why and How of Birth Control,
by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; How to Mesmerise, by Janet Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D.
Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/5; Universal Cookery Book, One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we
recommend it; Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7 ; Speed, and How to Obtain It, 4/0; Audel’s Radioman's
Guide, 8/10; How to Drive a Car, 3/9; Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing Punts, 2/9; Commercial
Art and Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/9; Freshwater Aquaria, by Bateman, 10/9; Practical
Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 0/4 ; Water Divining, 6/3 ; Painting and Distempering', 1/11;
Outboard Motorboat Book, blue prints, 17/-; Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Ticket and Signwriting,
1/-; How to Draw' for the Press, 1/-; Decorative Design, I,'-; Roofing, Slating and Tiling, 1/4;
All Wave Receivers, 1/2; The Modern Diesel Engine, 4/0 ; Mechanical World Year-book, 1932, 3/-;
Fowler’s Mechanics’ and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 3/10 ; Birth Control Up-to-date, by Eason, 2/2.
WRITE FOR LISTS
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
—with all Its
Chronic Pain
and Hidden
Hanger!
Kidney Trouble, Neglected,
Means Breakdown!
If you are tired-out with pain, head-
ache, back almost breaking, nerves all
“jumpy;” if you sleep badly, are cross
and irritable; if you notice bad taste in
the mouth, sallow complexion, if you
fear dreadful kidney trouble, take this
honest advice.
t
o
k
ifes
Pa#
W*
That chronic pain that makes you a misery to yourself and all around you is
Nature frantically signalling the need tor something to be done and done quickly.
You complain of being tired and worn-out, constant dull aching in the region of the
kidneys, and yet you keep on doing nothing Perhaps a few more cups of dreadfully
strong tea or a few purging, digestion-weakening salts are taken. Can it be
wondered that breakdown will surely come in time ?
There is a remedy for this depressing, health-wrecking state of affairs, caused by
deep-seated kidney weakness. It is no secret, it has been known for over forty years
under the name De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Tens of thousands of people
have tested this remedy and found it invaluable in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica, Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble. Go to
your chemist now and secure a supply of this inexpensive yet wonderful remedy.
The 3/6 you spend will be the best investment you will ever make.
Read tills Remarkable Letter
—lt will help you
Here is just one of thousands of letters which show you how quickly, how surely
this remedy acts. Read it carefully—it will surely help you.
Mrs. M. Morton, writing from 27 Smith Street, Summer Hill, Sydney, says:—
“It gives me much pleasure to write and tell you what relief I received
after taking less than one bottle of De Witt’s Pills. I suffered untold
agonies for six months with terrible burning, bearing-down pains, caused
through kidney and bladder trouble. I read a good deal about De Witt's Pills,
and had been told by people they were splendid. At last 1 bought a large
bottle, with wonderful results, and since then 1 feel as if I had a new lease
of life. Now I feel in perfect health, and am able to continue with my
employment, which 1 certainly could not have done had it not been for the
wonderful relief I received after taking your marvellous pills. I recommend
them to all I know, and will never be without them."
This is the evidence of not one but thousands who owe freedom from pain and a
return of health, vitality and strength to “De Witt’s.” Many who say life has been
one long misery of pain and suffering have banished that misery for good—thanks to
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
We are convinced that, with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly end. For 40 years De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved invaluable for all forms of deep-seated
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Uric Acid and all the pain and weakness caused
by Kidney Trouble. Because of their enormous popularity this remedy has been
imitated. For your own sake —that is if you wish to get back health quickly and
surely—see you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the white,
blue and gold box, sold by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger, more
economical size, 6/6. These pills are never sold loose.
De WITT’S
Kidney
and
Bladder
PILLS


IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS..
....what of the advertisements?
“The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Sayings oank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Othces
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies m the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank s service 1
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore Savings Ban
facilities are available to men, women and children, tor the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
imonwealtl) SavtoJßankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE VIC. WESTERN DISTRICT.
“Penfield” : After trying various parts of
Australia, the big Nestle’s firm of condensed-
milk makers fixed on a village outside VV arr-
nambool as the home of its main factory in
the Eastern States; the variation in milk
supply promised to be least there, and so
far the test has been satisfactory. But the
very qualities which commended the West-
ern district of Vic to Nestle’s are responsible
for some bad features in the way in which
most of the country is worked. Two things
are most conspicuous by their absence:
shelter trees and feed reserves. You ask
the average western cow-farmer about silage,
and he laughs at you. “Why, we haven’t had
a drought since 1914,” he tells you. To the
obvious reply, “YVell, another one or two
must be about due,” lie generally gives a
merely evasive reply.
They are doing a fair amount in the way ot
pasture improvement; but their dairy stock
is very often not first-class. The Govern-
ment herd-testing results give the rich West
nothing to be proud of. Butter-fat averages
were as follows: Gippsland, 40,000 tested, av.
butter-fat 2601 b.; Goulburn Valley, 11,000
tested, av. fat 2541 b.: North-eastern. 12,000,
av. 2411 b.; Western, 26,000, av. 2171 b. Yet,
though the district average is only 2171 b.,
one herd of SO at Panmure (Batten and
Sons’) averaged 3191 b.; while over the whole
of the ground covered in the State there are
127 herds which averaged over 3501 b. and 42
over 4001 b.
FINANCING FEED CONSERVATION.
“Jamwood” : “Valerin” (B. 8/6/’32)
not the only man who is troubled in his
mind about the lack of preparation in
N. S. Wales for a drought. A. R. Lhuedc,
sometime of Canowindra, has been stirring
up bank directorates on the subject, and has
received replies which have been sent to the
“S. M. Herald” for publication. They are
sufficiently important to be reprinted.
The Commercial of Sydney, its general
manager states, is “open to receive applica-
-1 ions from customers for advances to. enable
them to conserve fodder. . Such applications
will receive due consideration on their merits,
and in connection with relative, circum-
stances.” “The policy of the English, Scot-
tish and Australian Bank is, and has been
for some time, to assist the primary pro-
ducer as far as possible, and any clients
who seek assistance will receive sym-
pathetic consideration if the circumstances
warrant it”—thus an official communication.
And the Commonwealth Bank “will always
give consideration to applications from cus-
tomers for financial assistance to enable them
to conserve fodder.”
Similar assurances on behalf of other banks
would be welcome. A do-nothing policy can
benefit none of these institutions. It will be
a reproach, as well as a loss, to the nation
if myriads of stock perish, as in other
droughts, when the means of saving them
exist here and now.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA COMES BACK.
Third among the wheat-growing States for
many years, South Aus. lost its position to
Westralia in 1927-28, but is striving man-
■ fully to regain it. A run of bad seasons
was a factor in the decline (the other was
the opening up of new wheat land in the
West) • State average yields per acre were
only 8.16 bushels in 1927-28, 7.79 in 1928-
29,' 6.40 in 1929-30 and 8.34 in 1930-31.
Last year the spring rain was disappointing;
even so, the average rose to 11.81 bushels.
Production reached 48,093,102 bushels, the
greatest on record. The previous best was
45,745,064 bushels, averaging 16.46, in 19i.V
17. That was an exceptionally favorable
vear for wheat.
In South Aus., as elsewhere, it pays to
fallow. Of last year’s crop, 2,385,441 acres
sown on fallow yielded 35,325,997 bushels,
averaging 14.81; 1,685,929 acres sown on un-
fallowed land yielded 12,767,105 bushels,
averaging only 5 57. A comparison for three
years is given by the Government Statis-
tician :
Yield per Acre.
1931-30. 1929-30. 1928-29.
Grown on Hush. Bush. Bush.
Fallow ■. ~ 11.31 9.07 10.74
Not fallowed .. 7.57
Total .. . . 11.81 6.40 7.79
The rainfall during the growing period,
April to November, worked out at 7.79 inches
in 1928-29. 6.40 in 1929-30 and 13.71 in
1931-32 For the present season wheat has
been sown 0 n 2,368,896 acres fallowed, and
136,787 acres of new laud. So tar. indica-
tions are very promising, and the YVest-
ralians will have to look to their laurels.
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
“George Icks” : “Fin Fee's” (B. 8/6/ o 2)
contention that a new variety of wheat has
to satisfy the demands of the farmer and the
miller is all right up to a point; but what
we really need are varieties to satisfy the
demands of oversea customers. This is where
we are slipping. Australian and Argentman
wheats have no recognised standard ot
qualitv; they are simply nondescript types,
used as “fillers” by the trade. Milling and
baking have become highly specialised and
require special kinds of wheat to meet the
varied products of an extensive business.
Practically every country in Europe can grow
wheat, and is doing it, but before the well-
piled loaf of good texture and color to suit
the tastes of consumers can be baked it is
necessary to blend with dry and quality
wheats. Australia can supply the former;
Canada scores for quality.
We could extend our trade by growing
qualitv wheats. Plant-breeders should con-
centrate on producing a type with high pro-
tein content, a minimum of starch grains
and high-yielding returns. There is no need
to specialise in freaks just for the sake ot
winning prizes; let them strive for bag-fillers
worth 6d. to 9d. per bushel more. Asia will
absorb a large quantity of. higli-strength
flour and we should go after this trade.
Millers are one of the stumbling blocks
in the way of quality wheats; they want
them on a f.a.q. price basis. Nevertheless, if
farmers can be induced to specialise in
quality wheat and keep their samples free
from foreign matter it will eventually pay
them well. In any case we will have to get
out of the rut, and grow wheats that will sell
themselves. If we don’t we are going to be
left. __
THE PLAGUE OF MICE.
In common with • other wheat-growing
parts, South Aus. is worried about mice.
They are especially bad in the Ceduna dis-
trict ; there they are eating the seed and
the young shoots. It is estimated that there
were from 15,000 to 20,000 mice on one truck
of wheat that arrived recently at Ceduna
from inland. Rats have also appeared, m
large numbers in some districts. Poisoning
of mice at the rate of many thousands
a night is taking place. ,
The visitation is not so bad m N. S. VY ales,
but it is bad enough in parts to warrant
the Department of Agriculture issuing recom-
mendations for poisoning and trapping m its
June “Gazette.” Quoting U.S. experience, it
suggests that red squill powder is excellent
for mice and rat control, and is relatively
harmless to human beings and domestic
animals. . . . , .
The choice of bait is most important; for
best results several kinds should be laid at
the same time. A large number of small baits
is more effective than a few large baits.
Fresh fish ground in a meat chopper is one of
the most attractive; if fresh fish is not. avail-
able, tinned salmon or sardines in oil may
be used. Mix loz. powdered red squill with
a little water to form a thin paste free ot
lumps, add to lib. fish and mix thoroughly.
For meat, mix loz. powdered red squill
with a little water to form a thin paste free
of lumps, add to lib. fresh ground meat and
mix thoroughly. As for cereals, mix together
dry loz, powdered red squill and lib. cereal
meal, such as oatmeal, cornmeal or bran.
Add 1 pint sweet milk or water and stir to
a mushy consistency. And, using a pepper
shaker, dust powdered red squill over thin
slices of fresh fruit or vegetables and stir
or shake as the powder is applied to ensure
even distribution. A small rock-melon, for
example, should be cut into about 16 slices
and each slice cut into three sections. This
will require loz. powdered squill and will
make 48 baits. Three medium-sized tomatoes
or three bananas, each cut into about 16
sections, may be similarly used for each ounce
of squill powder. . „
“The most suitable traps for mice, the
department says, “are water traps. A very
effective trap of this type can be made by
punching holes through a kerosene-tm about
2 inches from the top on opposite sides. A
heavy wire is run through this;. the wire
also goes through the ends of a tin such as
a 21b. treacle-tin with the lid on. The kero-
sene-tin is sunk in the ground and filled with
water to about two-thirds of its depth.
Tallow or a mixture of tallow and flour is
put on the rolling tin, Mice jump on to
this, it revolves, and they fall into the water.
Mice can also be trapped by throwing some
loose grain and chaff into a smooth tin-
lined case, such as a piano case, and putting
a board or bags up on the outside of the case
for the mice to run up. They jump into the
tin or case after the grain or chaff. and it
is impossible for them to climb out.
mothering lambs.
“Alcibiades” : The greatest art in lamb-
marking is in the mothering of the lambs,
and the main thing is to avoid mis-mother-
ing. More lambs are lost through mis-
mothering than from any other cause.
Lambs should not be mustered and yarded
in greater lots than about 500. To collect
over 1000 in a mob, as is »o often done, is
simply inviting mortality.
Ewes and lambs must have abundance
of room in the yards, both before and after
the lambs are marked. For one thing, this
allows a ewe, after she has found her lamb,
to draw away from the mob a little to give
the little fellow a suck. When a ewe loses
her young, where does she look for it.
Where she saw it last, where it had its
last drink. The same rules govern the
actions of the little fellow, be it iamb, foal
or calf. It goes looking for its mother where
last it had a drink.
After being given a chance to mother in
the yards, sheep should be lot out as quietly
as possible—they should, if possible, be
allowed to draw out through gates so wide
that they should not be flurried at all. They
should be handled steadily outside, all noise
and bustle avoided, and as quickly as pos-
sible the ewes should be put on water and
out on feed. If a ewe has lost her lamb,
and if she is not inclined to look for it,
when she has had a drink and a nibble of
grass the maternal instinct comes to her
with a rush; she searches for her lamb.
For that, if for no other reason, the yards
should be built close to water.
Ewes and freshly-marked lambs should
never be shepherded in an attempt to mother.
No man should be allowed near the body
of the sheep. An old and careful man
might check the lead which is inclined to
stray; but he should do no more than turn
them. As soon as the ewes commence to
feed and gather their lambs to them, they
should be left strictly alone. Going back
next day is useless. The whole job l.s done
or undone within an hour of letting the
sheep out of the yard.
WOOL QUALITIES.
“Murrawong”: “Sheepo’s” definition of a
GO's wool (B. 8/G/’32) is somewhat mislead-
ing The fact of its being sound or tender
may affect its ultimate use, but has no
bearing wdiatever on the spinning count.
Probably the bulk of the merino wool grown
in Australia is of 64's quality—a medium
wool; Go ! s quality, the “strong” wool of the
average merino clip, is distinguishable by its
comparatively longer staple and bolder crimp.
The sheep that grows it can be picked out
of a mob of medium-quality woolled sheep by
its larger frame, the rougher, more pointed
tip of the staple and more open fleece. Quality
is also largely influenced by seasons; a good
year with plenty of feed grows a heavier
fleece at the expense of quality while a lean
year tends to fine up the wool.
“Shcepo’s” range of spinning counts is
anything but practical. While wool of lot) s
count may exist, it is rarer than truth at
a political meeting; the average range ol
Qualities met with in merino flocks runs
from 60’s to 80’s. Call the 60’s “strong
merino, 64’s ‘‘medium,” 70 s fine ana
higher counts “superfine,” and the average
sheepman has all he wants to go on with.
DEEP SUBSOILING CONDEMNED.
“Clarenza” : Deep subsoiling has come into
vogue, especially on N.S.W. sugar-cane
farms, since the advent of the tractor pro-
vided thepporerw r er for it. In some cases
tractor subsoilers are worked to a depth ol
18in. in stiff clay subsoils. Results are
likely to be, in some cases, disappointing.
The root system of cane and most other
crops keeps close to the surface, near which
most of the fertilising elements are available.
Deep subsoiling allows these elements to be
washed down by heavy rain through the
loosened clay beyond the reach of the roots.
The subsoiler in most soils and tor most
crops should go only a few. inches lower
than the plough. Deeper working may be all
right for lucerne, which is a deep-iooter, and
in the friable subsoil which that plant needs;
but is there any expert evidence m favor
of deep subsoiling in any class of land i
SOIL EROSION,
“N M F ” : Soil erosion is a serious thing.
Manv barren patches of the earth’s surface
are entirely due to it. Our uneven rainfall
makes it more dangerous for us than tor
most countries. It takes toll in two ways.
The destruction of plant life by overstocking
round the edge of our dry interior makes
possible an extension of the desert. This can
be prevented only by preservation of natural
orowths and careful stocking of the land,
which will limit the areas of shifting sand
aud earth. That is a big work, a national
work.
Of more immediate interest is the damage
being done by indiscriminate ringbarking,
especially of hills. Those who have travelled
the world have seen many places that have
been rendered useless by just this short-
sightedness, which is already beginning to
cost us much good land and should be seri-
ously considered.
In cultivated areas the plough does most
of the damage. The soil is left loose and the
field goes out on to the road to be a nuisance
to traffic and a dead loss to the community.
This shouldn’t be, and it can in many eases
easily be prevented. Where it is necessary to
plough slopes the furrows should, where pos-
sible, always be across the slope, not u«p and
down it. When this is not possible cross
furrows should be made. In orchards, and
sometimes in larger areas, less use of the
plough and more resort to the hoe and cul-
tivator, together with a judicious use of rocks
and stones, will greatly minimise the evil.
More expense? Yes, but not as costly in the
long run as allowing the soil to be lost and
the productivity of the land to be destroyed
beyond redemption.
THE WARBLE-FLY.
“Hatter’’: Warble-fly infestation is often
the cause of serious trouble. Dairy cows
troubled with it do not fatten satisfactorily,
and hides are badly damaged by the
holes through which the grubs emerge. The
larvae are found under the skin on the backs
of cattle early in the spring, and increase
in number till early summer. As many as
GO have been found on one animal in badly-
infested areas.
A wash made from derris powder—the
dried and powdered root of a tropical plant
( Deguclia ) —is a cheap and effective method
of destroying the larvae. Dissolve jib. soft-
soap in a little hot water, adding enough
cold w r ater to make up a gallon; then pour
it on to lib. of derris powder. This forms
a thick liquid which, when well stirred, holds
the powder in suspension. To apply it, the
back of the animal should be well scrubbed
with a stiff brush dipped in the solution til'
the crust round the warble holes is removed,
after which the warbles should be well
swabbed with a soft cloth dipped in the
mixture. The wash should not be kept
more than a day or so before use. Examina-
tion a fortnight later should show the
warbles to be dead and blackened, and four
monthly dressings should be sufficient for
the season. Different brands of derris root
vary in toxic properties; some give a 100
per cent, kill, and others only 40 per cent.
TOBACCO-GROWING IN W.A.
“W.J.W.”: “Penfield” (B. 25/5/’32) says
it doesn’t cost a great deal to set up as a
tobacco-grower. It costs a bit in Westralia.
True, you can get virgin country cheap;
but in the Nornalup district and around
Manjimup, where the bulk of Westralian
tobacco is grown, clearing costs are reck-
oned at £5O per acre. There was a notion
that a crop could be obtained by planting
between the trees, but experience has showm
otherwise; whilst the futility of attempting
to crop the land without running the roots
after clearing the tops was revealed at the
first cultivation between the rows.
Although poor land is advocated for
tobacco-growing, a fairly heavy application
of potassic, nitrogenous and phosphatic
manures is necessary. This is generally
applied before planting by drilling the land,
scattering the manure in the furrows and
then splitting the drills and planting on the
new ones, above the manure. And kilns
and sheds come expensive. You need at
least two kilns, one to be filled while the
other is being burnt. A brick kiln, the
walls one brick in thickness, 16ft. by 16ft.
by 16ft., costs approximately £5O; one of
double walls of timber, asbestos or iron, the
space between being filled with soil, about
the same. Of course, kilns, sheds and clear-
ing are permanent, but the Westralian
grower is faced with an initial cost of £75
to £lOO per acre; that is, if proper methods
are employed.
Again, tobacco is a crop which entails a
great amount of labor. Several times during
growth, suckers and top leaves must be
plucked off; as the leaves ripen they must
be picked, stored in a shed until sufficient
has been obtained, and then placed in the
kiln, which is burnt and the process repeated.
The cured leaves are then stacked in heaps
to mature, after which they are graded. All
this involves a great deal of handling, but
it is essential to the production of first-class
tobacco.
Leaf can be grown with little outlay, but
the flavor, without which it is nothing, is
obtained largely in the curing and maturing
processes. The industry av I provide a good
living for growers of a certain type; but
tobacco-growing is neither a mug’s game nor
a get-rich-quick proposition.
AN ACRE OF GRANNY SMITHS.
Not old ladies, of course, but apple-trees.
An Upper Capel (W.A.) man, D. V. C.
Farley, owns the acre, and his 06 trees are
in their 13th year. His returns for the last
four seasons, as furnished to the Westralian
(Continued on next page.)


MADE BY HAND
The best of all Abbey stock shoes
.... longer-lasting than any
machine-sewn footwear! This
Abbey Shoe needs no breaking in.
It stands up to more resoling and
actually saves money in the long
run. The,leather is the best Aus-
tralia produces. An Abbey Hand-
sewn Shoe, moreover, is shaped to
accommodate every curve of the
foot without the least tightness or
strain.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 286
For Sale.
INCUBATORS (Buckeye) FOR SALE—
-1 Second-hand. One 1008-egg capacity and
one 6144-egg. Both well cared for and in
good order. Complete with fans and kero-
sene heating equipment. Setting 1528 eggs
and 386 eggs weekly respectively. Attrac-
tive prices to clear. Apply MANN AND
GAMBLE, LTD., 193 Valentine Street,
Sydney (near P.D.S.).
; This Amazing Remedy
Restores Health and
Vitality without Effort
The modern foods we eat, the stress of
post-war life and the strain of present-day
business combine to produce self-poison in?
( autoocima ), the result of hidden and unsus-
pected constipation from which nine out of
ten suffer. Particles of food waste not properly
evacuated become encrusted in the intestine,
much as a water pipe becomes coated with
rust. This waste decays and ferments, har-
| boring disease-breeding germs and poisons.
| These are absorbed into the system, thus
! polluting the blood stream, undermining your
! health, sapping your vitality, and bringing
on all manner of aches, pains and sicknesses.
Before the health and vigor of youth can
be regained, this waste matter rhmst be
flushed right out of the system. The safe,
simple way to do this is to drink COLO-
SEPTIC. It completely loosens off, dissolves
and washes out the decaying waste, and rids
the body of all poisonous waste and blood
impurities through Nature’s four great out-
lets—the colon or large intestine, the kid-
neys, the pores of the skin, and the respira-
tory organs.
Poor health is a tremendous handicap in
business, professional and social life. If you
are a victim to various aches, pains and
ailments, you cannot be judged at your best
—you cannot reach your full measure of
success. Are you suffering from constipa-
tion, headaches, weakness, indigestion, gas in
the stomach and bowels, catarrh, backache,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema, pimples V Drink
COLOSEPTIC in hot water every morning.
Personally prove how it promptly surmounts
your particular health difficulty—how it re-
stores radiant health—how it renews the old
youthful energy and vigor. You can get
COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size jars from
all chemists, etc. Send 1/- stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., Dept.
Iv 4, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney, for Special
1/- Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC
and the instructive book “Autoxima.”
4
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862:
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insui-ances^t: 1 011 of 1 t „°; f
"Builflpigs, Stocks, luum-
ture, &c .Rentsalso assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine „ rcjS-Jr Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
£*s
'.'l’vVvr:
£ssg
.v^i v
m
UNFAILING
SERVICE
Every Diamond Battery is guaranteed to
give ‘ the utmost power—to recuperate
strongly and rapidly—to give a length of
service satisfying the most critical demand.
Diamonds have rtn unequalled record of
performance. Set manufacturer's recommend
them —broadcasting stations —and thousands
of set owners throughout Australia —use
them exclusively. They’ve proved their
value!
For more power at less cost —fit Diamonds!
Every dealer stocks them.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
—TORCH REFILLS
Superintendent of Horticulture!, are sub-
joined :—-
Oases Oases
Season. Packed. Exported. Price.
1929 . . . . 535 460 13/-
. 1930 . . . . 456 296 HZ-
-1931 .. 850 800 10/-
1932 . . . . 1000 960 9/-
ln effect. 2518 eases were exported, giv-
ing a net return on rails, Donnybrook, ot
£1205, an average over four seasons of £>>l.>
l>s. per season from one acre of land. In
addition 325 cases were sold on thb local
market.
Not much Westralian produce comes
to X. 8. Wales, but Granny Smith apples
from the south-west have found favor in
Sydney and invariably fetch good prices.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is mainmitis in a cow? (2)
How can 1 tell if u cow has it? (3) Can
another non-milking cow catch it? (4)
Would the milk harm an infant being reared
on it?— 252.
(1) An inflammation of the mammary
gland. (2) The symptoms are pain, swell-
ing or fibrous thickenings in the gland, and
alteration in the milk, which in some cases is
noted to be stringy or flocculent, or tinged
with blood. (3) Not likely, since contagion
is usually effected by milking. (4) It
should not be used so long as it appears
abnormal. If mainmitis is due to tubercu-
losis the milk should not, of course, be,
used at any time for human consumption.
Has Australia evolved a special type of
draught horse? Ilow does the Clydesdale
compare with the Belgian Percheron for
suitability to Australian conditions? —464.
No new type has been created. Generally
speaking, tlie Clydesdale breed answers all
the demands for Australian conditions. Being
a clean-legged breed, the Belgian Percheron
is considered more suitable where wet, muddy
conditions prevail, but Percherons are re-
puted to be more prone to bone and foot
troubles than are the Clydesdales.
How and when to destroy bitter-bark trees
that grow in Q'land scrub country? —47.
Surest plan is to grub them out. A fail-
measure of success has been attained by frill-
ing aud poisoning w r ith a 5 p.c. solution of
arsenic pentoxide. This should be done dur-
ing the period from December to March.
(1) In tanning a cowhide with wattle-
bark should the bark be dry or green f (2)
Will a salted hide tan properly? (3) Quan-
tity of bark required to tan a cowhide?
(4) Method of removing hair? (5) How
long does a cou'hide take to tan? —183.
(1) Dry. (2) Salting makes no differ-
ence. (8) Thirty to 50 hides are tanned
with one ton of good wattle-bark. (4) Re-
move hair by soaking hides in milk of lime
(301 b. lime per 100 gallons water). Handle
each day, and leave until hair can be re-
moved. From six to seven days should
suffice. (5) About five to six weeks.
(1) How to estimate the capacity of a
force pump? . (2) What is the maximum
height at which a suction pump may be
placed above the surface of the water?-— 460.
(1) Multiply the square of the diameter
(in inches) of the barrel by the stroke (in
inches), and multiply the product by the
number of acting strokes per minute. Now-
divide by 6 and the answer will be in
gallons per hour. For example a pump hav-
ing a barrel diameter of 3in. and a stroke
of sin. will, if given 60 active strokes per
minute, have a discharge rate of 3 x 3 x 5 x
60 divided by 6, or 450 gallons per hour.
(2) The movable valve should not be higher
than 25ft. above the water.
Can I label honey-tins “Warranted under
the N.S.W. Pure Food Act ” without paying
a fee or registering the label? —137.
The word "warranted” is not used in the
Act, the word implying it being “guaran-
teed,” but even this jnlist not he used unless
a guarantee has been effected in accordance
with the Act and Regulations. The Receiver,
the Treasury, Sydney, will supply necessary
information and forms.
What is the best medium for getting
wax comb foundation sheets through a comb
foundation mill? As- a rule soapy water or
starch is used. Manufacturers must use
something else, as they put the sheets straight
into the boxes in which they arc 501d. —9731.
The manufacturer's problem in this respect
is not Hie same as that of the hand-maker
of comb foundation and his methods are
therefore not applicable. Possibly there are
trade secrets, as the product of one factory
is marketed with interleaves of paper. For
hand-milling it is doubtful whether warm
soapy water can he improved on, even though
it; has to be rinsed off and the sheets dried
by interleaving.
(1) Which species of wattle produces
best bark, and how to identify? (2) Age
of tree, and time to .strip? (3) Price of
product? — : 9o.
(1) Feather-leaved black wattle (Acacia
molissima). Methods of identification too
lengthy to describe here. Submit samples
to the Curator of the Sydney Technological
Museum. (2) The tree should be five years
old and upwards, and it should be stripped
in the spring. (3) £6 to £9 per ton.
Recipe for a fly-spray? —4l7.
Alcohol (90 per cent.), 100 parts; eau
de Cologne, 50 parts; acetic ether, 10 parts;
eucalyptol, 10 parts; Bergamot oil, 3 parts.
Mix together. One part of this mixture is
added to ten parts of water.
Should / pay sales tax on the purchase of
a second-hand tractor? —lB.
Assuming that the vendor is registered
for the purposes of the Sales Tax Assess-
ment Acts, and that the tractor had not pre-
viously borne the tax, sales tax was payable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Floodmark”: After 24 hours of acute dis-
tress from an attack of dry gripes or colic,
my neighbor’s mare was relieved when given
an ounce of ground ginger in a pint of warm
water. A piece of hose with a funnel was
used for administering it. Her back -was
moistened just in front of the hips with
warm water and a little turps was smeared
over it with a minimum of rubbing. Hot
packs—flour-bags dipped in hot water—were
then applied constantly, the mare being kept
walking about. When ir seemed rluit the
pain had gone a dose of Boz. of Epsom salts
and loz. of hypo-sulphite of soda in two
pints of water was given. In two days
she was on her job again.
"Orel": For a lamb-marking yard choose
a site near the camp or oma fence where
it will serve two paddocks. Build two yards,
each large enough to hold the number of
ewes and lambs usually in the paddock, a
catching yard and a pen for lambs. Wire
fencing is suitable if netting is used to make
it lamb-proof. When the job is finished open
the gate. There is no knocking the lambs
about driving them to their paddock.
“McNoon”: Worn-out motor-tyres are of
great assistance when burning heaps of weeds
or hedge-cuttings. Once alight, they blaze
for a long period and the rubbish can be
heaped on them. If the heaps are scat-
tered, tie a piece of fencing-wire on each
i yrc before lighting; they may then ;be
dragged from one heap to another.
“Thorley”: We breed ferrets on our Vie.
place for rabbiting in rough country. Treat
the young ones as one treats puppies or
kittens and they never bite; and if they
cannot dislodge a rabbit from a burrow they
will emerge after a reasonable time and come
up to be fondled. They may be picked up
by the tail, head or (preferably) under the
middle. Give as much skim-milk as they
will drink twice a day, and as much rabbit as
they care for at night. We keep about
20 in a house about Bft. by 12ft.; tin sides,
concrete floor and partially open sides.
“Jolinno”: The notion that freshly-killed
beef must be allowed to cool off before being-
cut up and salted down is all wrong. It
takes the salt better at natural body warmth.
A Queensland butcher who rarely hands out
a bad bit of beef gets to work on a carcase
directly it arrives from the killing-yard—less
than a stone’s-throw away. Salted, it is
stacked on a table and left to drip away
uutil distribution-time comes, round—-gener-
ally the following day. Beef not disposed of
as "fresh salt” is treated again the follow-
ing day.
"Hornby” : If fence posts have to be left
for any length of time in the paddo’ck, don’t
put them fn a heap. Make a fire and throw
the posts singly on the cold ashes. White
ants, borers and other pests won't intrude
on the ash area.
“Wrasli”: Wild tobacco-bush leaves are
excellent for mixing with straw for bedding-
horses, pigs or calves, and for fowl-nests.
The thick fluffy leaves make a cosy and
comfortable couch and their strong scent
repels insects and vermin. Also, gathering
the plants rids the paddock of a pest.
“Bloss”: If the quartpot springs a leak
while out droving, try stopping it with a
small piece of bread (flour is better) mois-
tened and pressed over the leak on the out-
side of the quart. Stick a piece of paper
over the bread so that it is just more than
covered. Although believed unnecessary, I
always take care to place the quart so that
the leak is away from the flames.
“Willeroo”: A bush treatment for a dog
that has taken a strychnine bait is to sus-
pend the animal by the hind legs, twist him
round till the rope or strap tightens, and
let him unwind. The rapid spin causes him
to vomit the bait. On the road or in the
bush there is seldom any other means of
saving a dog, but prompt action is necessary.
“Dimon”: If a smoke screen is wanted to
protect early fruiting trees when frosts are
expected, the moving-picture idea of making
a continuous cloud has advantages. Soak
a couple of old bags in a saltpetre solution,
and when thoroughly dry roll up tightly and
light them on the windward side of the trees.
Stamp out the initial flame, and they will
smoulder for hours. Other materials that
don’t require watching and stoking like
ordinary fires are dry cowdung, placed in
small oblong heaps, and small logs of dry
corkwood. The latter will smoulder and
smoke without blazing till the last bit is
consumed.
“Werrimee”: A simple bait for ants is a
mixture of bran and arsenic, sweetened with
honey or golden syrup, and placed under a
tin, with small holes at the ground edge for
the ants to enter. What is not eaten on the
spot is carried into the nest. Unless the
ants are a pest in the house or sheds, how-
ever, there is no necessity to interfere with
them.
“A.C.8.”: Many small growers in the
County of Cumberland (N.S.W.) have failed
with cauliflowers this year. A brown leaf
developed and the caulis. failed to heart.
Transplanting in poor soil is probably re-
sponsible ; cauliflowers need rich land, and
much of the C. of C. cannot be so described.
These plants also require well-rotted manffre,
and a little sulphate of ammonia applied
twice a- week when hearts are beginning to
form helps.
“Barlow”: Re horse colors and stamina.
“Mac” (B. 18/5/’32) misses the most im-
portant point. It is not so much the color
that counts as the shade of that color. In
chestnuts and bays you get light or washy
and dark or hard shades. The washy horse
of any color is always softer than and, in-
ferior to the hard-colored one. A grey with
a good color is nearly always a good horse,
but the washy ones are an abomination.
Roans (red and blue) are mostly found in
draughts and ponies. They are usually good
honest workers, but seldom show outstand-
ing quality. Creamy, mousy and taffy colors
are rarely met with except in ponies, and
when found in horses always trace to pony
blood. To take the cream of our racehorses,
hunters and hacks, bays, browns, chestnuts
and greys are well represented, but one
never sees a bad shade of those colors among-
them.
“Agrarian”: In Maryland (U.S.A.)
tobacco has been found to be , decidedly
superior in quality when grown following a
crop of certain weeds. Dr. Garner, of the
Agriculture Department there, planned
various rotations, and left check Strips that
grew weeds. Over a period of five years
results were (in money yield) doubled by
the weeds called ragweed, horseweeds and
lambs-quarters. The next best result was
from a three-year rotation of wheat, red
clover and tobacco. It seems that certain
plants decomposing in the soil develop or-
ganic compounds that stimulate and improve
the growth of other plants. This may have
something to do with the fact that the light
heath and tea-tree lands of Vic. and South
Aus. grow such good tobacco.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell" or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lad (17), N.'S.\V.,. exp. machine milking, desires
Position on dairy farm.—-364.
Typist, Sydney, senior, wants work city or Eastern
Suburbs ottiee.«—3Bs.
Young man (22), N.S.W., intermediate certificate,
journalistic exp., able to do pick and shovel work,
wants j0b.—444.
Ex-Digger (Newcastle, N.S.W.), mechanical and
electrical exp., licensed motor driver, wants job
a ny where. —2 8 G.
To adopt healthy baby boy, under three months,
- 293.
To buy, Sydney, light rowing-boat in good con-
dition. —420.
To buy “The History of Botany Bay”; also,
“Csesar’s Column.” —356.
To buy recent back numbers “Times Literary
Supplement.”—4oB.
To buy “Songs and Slang of the British Soldier,
1914-1918.”—372.
To buy book on leather plaiting.—327.
To buy “Sydney Mail” March 16 and 23, 1932.
—434.
To buy freezing unit of “Icy Bali” refrigerator.
—457.
To buy “Matsu,” by John Paris. —311.
To buy songs “In the Gloaming” and “Two Irish
Eyes of Blue,” for baritone. —33G.
To exchange “On the Hop,” “Phil May in Aus-
tralia” and “History of Botany Bay” for “Australian
E ticy clopsedi a. ” —4lO.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, wants literary-
matter to type.—4o9.
Words of old song containing the line “I’ll wash
your greasy moleskins, Bill, on the banks of the
Condamine.” —402.
To exchange Bulletin for “Sydney Mail.” Each
pay postage. —394.
Words of verse, “The Wowser Circus.” —441.
To exchange steel guitar for No. 1a Kodak or
good banjo.—42B.
Correspondence invited from persons interested in
island life in North Queensland. —331.
Biographical details concerning C. Fruscher
Howard, author of “Howard’s Art of Reckoning.”
—199.
Whereabouts of Ernest Bryant. (Reply direct to
Mrs. Uppington, 88 Lancaster-road, Kentish Town,
London.)
Information Sought.
Mu ear is registered in Vic. until March ,
1933. I wish to take it to N.S.W . for three
months. What registration and other fees
must I pay f —2BB. ,
Immediately the vehicle is unshipped, you
must apply’ at the Motor Transport Registry,
Phillip-street, Sydney, for the issue of a
visiting motorist’s pass, producing your cur-
rent Vic. certificate of registration and
driver’s license. There is no fee for a pass
for any term up to three months.
(1) What is the length of barrel for a
pistol for which a license is required in
N.S.W.? (2) Cost of license? (3) Could
a private citizen import spare parts for
revolvers or would it he necessary to obtain
them through a licensed person? — 322.
(1) Nine inches and under. (2) IQs.
a year. (3) Probably the makers would
refuse to deal with you and would refer
you to their Australian agents.
f have reason, to believe that I am to be
left some money by will of a certain person.
(1) Can I legally refuse this amount so
it may be paid back into the estate? (2)
When is the best time to act in this matter,
when the will is read or later on? (3)
\fnst I state a reason for refusing it? —365).
(1) y e s. (2) You could write now to
the testator, informing him that you do not
desire to receive any benefit under his will.
(3) No.
(1) Whereabouts in Y. S. Wales are the
Abercrombie ('arcs? (2) Who discovered
them andwhen were they opened to the
public? (3) Do they possess any distinc-
-live features which make them worth seeing?
—398.
Cl) Close to the main road between
Bathurst and Goulburn, 26 miles southward
from Newbridge railway station, and eight
miles from the old gold-mining township of
Trunkey Creek. (2) They were discovered
in 1830 when horsemen from Bathurst were
hunting a gang of bushrangers. (3) The
main feature is the superb Abercrombie
Arch-wav, varying from 100 to 200 feet in
width, GO feet high and 700 feet long. It
is the largest and most beautiful limestone
arch' in the Commonwealth and possibly the
world, and remarkable for its exquisite color-
ing. The eaves also contain many beautiful
limestone series of formations.
(1) What are the qualifications of a
returning officer for an electorate in N.S. W. ?
(2) By whom is he appointed l and paid?
(3) Any check on the time spent on the
work? (4) Is preference of appointment
given to persons already in Government em-
ploy?—249.
(1) Not legally defined. (2) By the
Governor, on the recommendation of the
Public Service Board. (3) Yes. (4) Yes.
According to a standard English dictionary
the spelling “harbour,” “honour,” “labour,”
"odour,” etc., is followed. Why does THE
Bulletin adopt American style and drop
the “w”f—37l.
Most English dictionaries (and American
ones, too) authorise both spellings. Though
Noah Webster and other American lexico-
graphers dropped the “u” they didn’t origin-
ate the practice, which, as Webster remarks
in a preface, is merely a reversion to the
original English spoiling. Since the "u is
not sounded and the practice saves space
the reform commended itself to the founders
of The Bulletin and their successors see
no cause to quarrel with their judgment.
(1) Do wolves when drinking lap or suck?
(2) Is it «, fact that in many litters there
is one pup which laps and which is killed
by the other pups? (3) Are Alsatians a
result of the mating of lapping pups? (4)
Do foxes suckle their young? _ (5) Are
dingoes greatly different, anatomically, from
sheep- and cattle-dogs? —243.
(1) and (21 Wolves suck when puppies
and lap like ordinary domestic breeds when
weaned. (3) The Alsatian breed originated
from the union of wolves with large domes-
ticated breeds. (4) Yes. (o) Dingoes
differ but little from large sheep- or cattle-
dogs, there being practically no discernible
difference in ihe respective skulls. As with
wolves, dingoes freely interbreed with
domestic kinds, proving that there are no
important anatomical differences.
[ lent £250 on a property in Gremornc ,
Sydney, on second mortgage and have had
no interest for 18 months. Rates are un-
paid, likewise insurance. The mortgage teas
due Dec., 1930. What can I do? —368.
Under the N.S.W. Moratorium Act your
rights are confined to action against the
property, and such action can be taken only
by leave of the Moratorium Court, unless the
mortgagor is two years in arrears with
interest or rates, or lias defaulted in regard
to the covenants for insurance and preserva-
tion, when the mortgagee is entitled to take
possession without leave. As to interest
and rates you must wait for two years, but.
as to non-insurance you can proceed at once.
My palms have been attacked ivith a
shield-like bug. What is the best way to
deal with it?— 42l.
Paint the affected parts with a feather
dipped in methylated spirits. Do not. water
the plants overhead during the treatment:
immersing the pots in a bucket will carry
the moisture to the roots. All yellowed
leaves should be removed and burnt to get
rid of any disease which may have been
missed.
My sliasta daisies have grown very
scraggy. What can be done for them? —4ss.
Dig up the plants and separate them, re-
planting only the new, strong fibrous shoots.
The old stalks should be discarded. Make
the soil rich with rotted manure before put-
ting in the plants. Superphosphate should
be added when the plants come into bloom.
How to protect seeds and plants in seed-
boxes from ants and vermin? —436.
Sow the seed in boxes and stand them
on supports which can be kept constantly
sprayed with kerosene. Baits of treacle and
arsenic will kill the pests.
Method of treating metal framework of
shop-windows so as to make polishing un-
necessary or to render one polishing suffi-
cient to last a long time? —4lB.
Apply a solution of white shellac in
methylated spirits, thin enough to be easily
worked with a small brush. A ready-made
lacquer is procurable.
When should aspidistras be re-potted, and
how is it done? —360.
Remove the old clumps from the pots
and replant in sections. A light, loam con-
taining a good quantity of sand is prefer-
able. Crocks are necessary for drainage.
The shifting can be done at any time, but
in cold weather keep the pots in a warm
place to help them to form strong roots.
Are there any well-known operatic com-
posers not of Italian birth? —382.
Quite a lot. Here are a few of the com-
posers: British, Sullivan, Balfe, Wallace and
Goring Thomas; French, Gounod, Berlioz,
Bizet, Auber. Audran, Lococq and Ambroise
Thomas: German, Wagner, Gluck, Meyer-
beer, Weber, Humperdinck, Flotow, Beet-
hoven and Richard Strauss ; Russian, Tschai-
kowsky and Mossourgsky; Belgian, Von
Suppe; Austrian, Mozart.
(1) Who composed “Rule Britannia? (2)
Was he a composer of great reputation? (3)
When and where- was the song first given
in public? —3Bl.
(1) Dr. Arne. (2i In his day, yes; his
works have become the subject of renewed
interest in recent years, and the publication
of a mass of his manuscripts, not. previously
printed, is proceeding. (3) At Cliefden
House, then the residence of the Prince of
Wales, in 1740, as part of the masque
“Alfred." Six years later Handel intro-
duced the theme in his “Occasional Over-
ture” as a compliment to Arne, which later
led to an easily-disproved theory that Arne
pinched the theme from Handel.
(1) What is the difference between an
atheist and an agnostic? (2) How do they
take the oath in court,? —347.
(1) An atheist believes that there is no
God; an agnostic, according to Huxley’s defi-
nition. neither affirms nor. denies the exist-
ence of a Deity. , He takes the ground that
no evidence on the subject is possible in
human experience. (2) By making an affir-
mation from which the name of the Deity is
excluded.
(1) Is “averse to” or “averse from” cor-
rect usage? (2) Docs the use of the word
as in the phrase “I am averse to that
theory ” imply that one is rather unwilling
or positively disinclined to believe it? (3)
Do “aver” “avert” and “aversion” come
from the same source?— 33o.
(1) “Averse to." according to Webstei’,
which says “averse from” is a former usage,
now incorrect. (2) Webster says it means
“disliking, unwilling, having a repugnance
or opposition of mind." (3) All come from
the Latin “aversus," past participle of “aver-
tere,” a “turning away from."
How much petrol would a heavy aero-
plane, which does about- seven miles per gal-
lon, consume in (1) tuning or warming up
for 15 minutes, (2) taking off, (o) landing ,
lOO
(1A three-engined aircraft with each
engine of 215 li.p. would consume about 3-
gallons of petrol during a 15-minute warm-
ing up of each engine. (.2) In a take-oft ot
about 140 yards, above machine would use
approximately to Igal. (3) Above
machine coming in to land with engine_s
throttled back at 1000 ft. would use approxi-
mately jgal. of petrol from time engine
was throttled back till machine came to rest
after landing.
Origin of ’the seafaring phrases (a) “the
devil to pay,” (b) “stretch- off the land,
(c) “a long ship” and (d) “listening to the
leak”? —277.
( a) The full expression “the devil to
pay and a Tack of hot pitch” means that the
speaker is in a fix. The ‘devil is the deck
seam between the covering board and .the
outer deck plank. To caulk it is a tricky
job owing to the way the deck planks are
scarfed into it. Seams are “payed or Idled
with molten pitch after they have been
caulked with oakum, (b) Means a sleep, as
when a ship is tacking along a coast she
will be sailing away from shoal water when
she is on the outward tack, and then is a
safe time to sleep, (c) Indicates that the.
speaker is thirsty. Seafaring etiquette post-
pones the first drink of the day till the sun
is over the' foreyard. A “long ship is a
loftv one, so it is t\ longer wait till the sun
is in the conventional position indicating
drinks. (c)- Having a short sleep in the
forecast le. Wooden ships’ forecastles were
notoriously leaky.
(1) Can anyone arrest, and detain a per-
son who has committed or is about to
commit a crime? (2) If that is the ) ulc,
arc there any exceptions to it .- —413.
(1) English Common Law, which in this
respect rules throughout the Empire, gives
the widest possible power to any citizen to
arrest or detain' in such circumstances. i»ut
if the power is wrongly exercised, the per-
son arrested may sue his captor for damages.
(2) There is only one exception—a rather
curious one. The King may not personally
arrest anyone. This arises out ot the
ancient Common-Law maxim that the King
can do no wrong. Hence, lie could not be
made the subject of an action for false im-
prisonment. and had he the right to aires.
there would be a wrong without a remedy.
Are there any true septets (pieces for
seven different voices ) in opera? —3B4,
There are examples in Wagner s _ Lie
Walkure” (Act 111, Scene 2) of music for
female voices in seven-part harmony with
independent accompaniment, hut these are
short passages. The best example in the
more conventional operatic style is to be
found in the last act of a long-forgotten
opera by Goetz, “The Taming of the Shrew.
I am told that Gounod's opera “Faust”
as performed to-day is not the same as the
original score. In what, respect does it
differ? —352.
There are certain additions. The aria,
“Loving Smile of Sister Kind,’ sung by
Valentine, was added for a London per-
formance in which Charles Santley p.ayed
the part. A number, “When All Was Young,
in the fourth act was not in the original
score (nor in the recent Sydney production).
In modern productions an elaborate scena re-
presenting the revels of demons on the
Brocken; for which the “ballet music was
written, is excluded as it makes the opera
too long.
Recipe for gesso, such as is used to deco-
rate woodwork? —338. • ,
Twelve oz. best gilder’s whiting, 9oz.
parchment size, 3 drops of cold drawn lin-
seed oil. Put size into a clean basin and
plaee basin in saucepan of cold water over
slight heat until the size is thoroughly
melted. The water in the saucepan must
never become more than medium hot. Pound
the whiting with pestle and mortar until
verv fine, warm it. and then pour size in
slowly and stir for five minutes. Place the
mortar containing size and whiting in the
saucepan of warm water on the stove and
leave for about 10 minutes, add the linseed
oil and stir very gently for a further five
minutes. Allow to stand, for 24 hours before
using. To use, melt some of the mixture
in a basin standing in hot water.
(1) What was the origin of postal ser-
vices? (2) Are there any instances in
history of such a service being run by
private enterprise? —432.
(1) Lost in the mists of antiquity.
Probably when the couriers of Governments
began, at first by connivance and later by
permission, to carry letters for other people.
(2) Yes. In the time of Queen Elizabeth
foreign postage business was managed by
the Guild of Merchant Strangers,, who
appointed a postmaster from among their
number. Later in English history the oflice
of postmaster was made an hereditary
private privilege, Lord Stanhope being the
first of the hereditary postmasters. At a
later stage the postal business was “farmed
out” on contract. London’s first penny
postage, in 3080, was a private enterprise.
Recently a Sydney health inspector re-
ported a disease known as “acute anterior
poliomyelitis.” ’Nature and symptoms? —39o.
This is the medical term for. infantile
paralysis. It is called that because it affects
what is called tlie “anterior” cells of the
spinal cord. The anterior cells have to do
with movement and that is why. when they
are affected, paralysis results.
(1) Recipe for sandsoap? (2) Formula
for a toilet, powder for tender or chafed
skin?— 4l9. „ ,
(1) Take 31b. of fat from which all salt
has been drained, Mb. caustic soda, £lb. resin,
3gal. water and lgal. clean, sharp sand.
Put water and fat into a kerosene-tin and
heat until melted. Add caustic _ soda in
small quantities, stirring all the time until
all. has been added. Grind resin to a
powder and add it with the sand. Boil for
1-?, hours and pour into a wet kerosene-tin
to set. When set cut into pieces as re-
quired. (2) Three tablespoons cornflour,
1 tablespoon boracic acid, 3 tablespoons
finest riceflonr (not rice ground up). Mix
w T ell and sift twice through very fine muslin.
May be perfumed by addition of a few drops
of otto of roses.
. Brief Answers.
Doubtful: You will have paid £1.97 14s.
off capital, and £309 6s. in interest. The trans-
action will have 10 years and four months still to
run at June 30 M.C.: Mary Ann Moore Bentley
(18,924 votes) and Nellie Alma Martell (18,502),
both N.S.W., and Vida Goldstein (51,497), Vic.,
were unsuccessful candidates at the 1903 Common-
wealth Senate elections D.P.S.: Sago and nipa
palms, abundant in some parts of New Guinea,
yield up to 60 gal. of power alcohol per ton... .N.N.:
“Practical Chiropody,’’ by E. G. V. Bunting, Angus
and Robertson, 9s. 3d. posted.. . . M;.J.H.: Principal
figures w’ill be found in the Annual Estimates.
Detailed trading figures are not disclosed... .G.J.:
Suggest lieucliera, a hardy perennial. Seed should
be sown in the late spring a foot apart, and they
make a good border. So does the Lady Brisbane
rose, which can be kept trimmed back to
about 18in T.G.: The itch is possibly due to a
mange parasite. Apply potassium sulpburata, loz.
to 2 gallons of lukewarm water, to the affected parts
every four days with a nailbrush... .Butcher: The
speed of a bullet fired from an aeroplane in the
direction of the ’plane’s flight would be the usual
speed of the bullet plus the speed of the aeroplane.
Therefore it w.ould carry to an aeroplane ahead,
flying at the same speed, if the latter ’plane were
within range A.T.J.: Unnecessary to apply cement
mortar to both inside and outside of tank, but it is
usually done for the sake of appearance.... G,C.:
If crack is sufficiently wide, bitumen might be used,
otherwise cut crack out and replace with cement....
8.G.: Leeturer-in-Charge, Tanning Sehool, Bourke-
Street, Waterloo, Sydney ... .E.K.L.: Write Winch-
combe Carson and Co., AVinchconrbe House, Bridge-
street, Sydney... .C. 8.: 554 camels, 556 donkeys, 51
mules, 20 pigs and 5814 goats were enumerated in
Centralia in 1929.... J.C.: During year ended June
30 1930, new claims for war pensions granted totalled
13,650 ; rejected, 1257. Pensions then in force numbered
279,285, annual liability being £7,762,508....
8.N.: Karri-trees in the Warren River district (s.w.
Wcstralia) attain a height of 300 ft J.G.: Of
the 13,288 males employed in Westralian industrial
establishments (exclusive of mines) at June 30,
1931, 23 were abos. and 20 Chinese P.F.: In
N.S.W. in 1929-30 there were 11,531 picture shows:
admissions numbered 2,744,924. Theatres not uj?ed
as cinemas totalled 4658, their admissions 1,090,756.
....Dun: She may use her husband’s initials for
social purposes, or her own Christian name. The
latter is always used when signing legal or other
formal documents... .C.W.M.K.: The Service Dept,
cannot undertake to prepare arguments for use in
debates... .U.K.: Melbourne had in 1929-30, 28
free kindergartens (exclusive of Government kinder-
garten branches), with an average attendance of
1600. There were 69 permanent instructors, 33
student teachers and 360 voluntary assistants....
W.A.11.: Send us full name and postal address and
we will forward details. .. .J.D.F.: (1) Must know
what kind of leather is wanted before we can
advise as to process. (2) Oils and fats are worked
into the leather to keep it pliable. (3) Posting
recipe... .J.8.E.: Figlif it out with the paper which
printed tlie letter. .. .R. 8.: The Moratorium Act pro-
vided that it should not bind the Government Savings
Bank of N. S. Wales. The fact that this bank has
been absorbed by the Commonwealth does not alter
the position; it is still exempt and you must look
to the Commonwealth Bank for any relief you seek ;
it also is the authority from which notice to fore-
close would come... .G.R.S.: As the shares appa-
rently formed part of the interest which passed
under the will to the lady’s sister, the provision
in the will of the latter making such interest
divisible equally between her children would be
inclusive of tlie shares... .8.E.D.R.: The Purchasers
of Homes Relief Act (Q.) applies only where tlie
original contract price does not exceed £1250.
Apparently your case does not come within the Act.
. ...F.M.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning School,
Bourke-street, Waterloo... .M.Y.: Write Secretary,
Tasmanian Public Library, Argyle-street, Hobart.....
A.F.S.: AVrite Director, Technological Museum,
Ilarris-street, Sydney, for pamphlet “Tung Oil,” Is.
. ...J.8.C.: “Why Editors Regret,” by Gerald
Dillon (2s. 6d.), and “Australian and N.Z. Writers'
and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.), Angus and
Robertson L.H.: Family endowment is payable
only to persons resident in N.S.AV. for two years im-
mediately preceding the date of claim... .R.E.C.: No
records available... .J.C.: AVrite Beale and Co.,
Trafalgar-street, Annandale, Sydney... .M.C.: (1)
Cocoanut oil. It first appeared as an American
proprietary line, and we cannot give the formula.
(2) Lever Bros., Balmain, Sydney. (3) Cocoanut oil,
after being expressed from raw copra, is subjected
to further treatment in vats by heat and by pres-
sure to produce a clean, firm fat suitable for food
purposes. . . .Pacific: Can’t say; while searching we
discovered two other different spellings. “Harms-
worth’s Gazetteer” spells it Mophia and tlie “Ency-
clopaedia Britannica” spells it Mopiha... .E.P.H.:
Penny envelopes: 12s. fid. unused, 10s. used. Covers:
J Os. unused, Bs. 6d. used. Twopenny envelopes: 30s.
unused, 60s. used; covers, 275. fid. unused, 60s. used.
(2) Mulready envelopes were issued in 1837 con-
currently with the first British adhesive postage
stamlps... .R.F.: The property would pass to the
mother. The brother might institute proceeding's in
equity with the object of constituting her a trustee
so far as his interest in the farm is concerned —a
costly and roundabout wav. The brother in whose
name the title stands should instruct a solicitor to'
draw up a will that would meet the case....
J.M.C.: Try F. W. AVilliains and Co., 16 Loftus-street;
Lvsaght Bros, and C'o.. 17-19 Bridge-street; and
Buzacott and Co., 7-11 Market-street —all Sydney.
. ...H.P.: The value of all woollen materials im-
ported into the Commonwealth for the year ended
June 3’o, 1931. was £302,961 : value of all cotton
materials, £5,904,287 F.J.F.: (1) Suggest you
gain experience with one of the many amateur theatrical
societies in Sydney. (2) Write Scott Alexander,
New Sydney Rep. Soc., 420 Kent-street, Sydney.
(3) Efftoe Film Productions, Melbourne... .R.B-:
No figures available S.R.C.: AVrite Commonwealth
Statistician, Canberra... .F.H.: (1) Yes, board and
keep must be added to salary. (2)’ Probably it
would depend on what concessional deductions, if
any, you were entitled to for dependants, etc. (3)
You will not be prosecuted if you lodge returns
voluntarily and office penalties would, at most, be
nominal. (4) For the year ended June 30, 1930,
the statutory exemption was £150; previously the
exemption was £250. Can’t aid you in your
defence for not furnishing returns... .AV.1t.8.: (l)
No. (2) Yes, failing an application by D's next
of kin for- letters of administration. (3) Inquire
from the Curator if be has any record of the matter,
supplying him with the date of D’s death... .C.E.B. :
The rule is that buildings of any kind or things
annexed in any way to them or otherwise attached
to the land become part of it and on sale pass with
the land to the purchaser... .S.H.: Some eight to ten
species of blowfly are common. Ail arc Australian,
save two, which perhaps may have spread down —one
from Asia, the other from Europe—but have
been here for very many year’s. These various
blowflies blow meat and carcases and also develop
on sheep. (2) Twenty-five species of mosquitoes
are recorded in Britain and over 100 in Australasia.
E.B.H.: AVrite Arthur Yates and Go., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney....(Many others mailed.)


Dope
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., brought by cocaine to a
mere subsistence by freelancing, saves
beautiful but raucous Etty Smith
from a half-breed’s knife in a Sydney
waterfront “dive.” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings, and after a few weeks he
has to go to her for dope rations less
frequently j as she tends Mm Johns
realises that she, who is far short of
his ideal, loves him. Captain Smith,
her father, realises it, too; he sacks
the drunken mate for assaulting Johns,
whom he makes acting first mate.
When Varley, one-time medical stu-
dent, now the cook, confesses he
’ lores Etty, Johns agrees it is only
right to tell her he, Johns, does not
love her; but keeps putting this off.
At Lola-Panga, where Smith is after
deep-water pearl-divers, Fay Campbell,
on a cruise in her father’s steam yacht.
Arethusa, visits Etty—and Johns
meets his ideal. Campbell is astounded
when Johns refuses his offer of assist-
ance. That night inspired by Varley,
Johns deserts, stowing away in the
Arethusa’s lifeboat. The yacht sails
for Zandavar, where Johns hopes to
sneak ashore with a letter of credit to
Varley’s friend Wooden Charlie,
saloonkeeper. Planning the great book
he hopes to write helps Johns through
the following exhausting hours; but
his cravings are returning when he
hears Fay and her father approach,
discussing him.
BOOK II—SHIPS THAT PASS.
Chapter 111 ( Continued .)
I FELT mighty sorry for him,” Campbell
was saying, “But he was a darned
young idiot to turn down an offer like
that.”
“How old would you say he was, father?”
The girl’s voice was casual—almost too
casual, Johns allowed himself to hope.
“Eh?” The man’s voice was hesitating,
us though he were weighing the question,
and its answer, carefully. “How old? H’m,
it’s hard to say, my dear. Those queer
chaps—you never know. He might have
been twenty-eight; and again, if you’d seen
him creeping out after he’d said he had to
go back to that infernal amazon of his,
you’d have tipped it. more likely, at forty.”
“Oh. he couldn’t be that old?”
Johns,' listening with pounding heart,
sensed the sudden turning of Campbell’s
head, the sudden piercing look that the
expression in his daughter’s voice, rather
than in the actual words themselves, had
called forth.
“Fay, child, you that almost as if it
mattered.”
The silence of the night suddenly seemed
oppressive. The unbroken murmur of the
bow wave and the steady, half-heard pound-
ing of the engines were constants, so that
they did not count. The night itself was
utterly silent, as though it, too, were wait-
ing breathlessly for the girl’s answer.
But no answer came.
Johns wished that he could see her face.
The blue eyes with their purple shadows
woidd be half-veiled by the curving lashes,
and, perhaps, they would be looking out
across the sleeping ocean to the Southern
Cross—the same Cross that he could see
through the tinj" peephole; the Cross of
Hope, he had called it; the Cross that
seemed always to him to be the symbol
of the future.
“Faysie?” Her father’s voice was tender,
caressing. “Faysie, my dear?”
“It’s nothing, father. I’m just a little
fool. I’m a bit homesick, perhaps, and that
makes me all the more sorry for him.
That’s all it is—l’m sorry for him. Don’t
look at me like that!” Her temper flared
suddenly, irrationally. “Don’t look at me
like that, father, for heaven’s sake! Do
you think I’d want to be bothering about
a man like that? Anybody could see that
there’s something fishy about him—why else
would a gentleman be in those circum-
stances?”
Johns could hear her father patting her
shoulder soothingly.
“All right, my dear. But it worried me
1o see those tears. No tears on a. birth-
day trip, eh? Surely that’s not, an un-
reasonable thing to ask?”
A sudden vision of silver pearls spangling
the bronze lashes to a glint of gold sprang
to Johns’s mind, enthralling him, until it
became a conscious effort to remain seated
quietly in his hiding place. Strangely
enough, it was this vision only that hurt
him. Her words, concrete evidence, appa-
rently at least, of her state of mind to-
wards him, left him unmoved. He some-
how knew that there was no truth in them
—that it was not homesickness that had
prompted those tears.
More than ever he was thankful now
that he had not accepted old George Camp-
bell’s offer. It would have been too ludi-
crous—he, running away from the. Surf
Queen lest he should end by marrying Etty
out of pity, and running aboard the Are-
thusa where, he knew it to be more than
probable, he might have had his own offer
accepted out of pity as much as anything,
had he been rash enough or cad enough to
make it.
No. Things were much better as they
were. It was far better to let Fay and her
father think that there was “something
fishy” about him—or to let old Campbell
think so, if he were foolish enough to have
been taken in by her words. Let him think,
for the moment, what he liked. Later on,
when this damned craving of his was con-
quered—if such time ever came; and, God
knew, he was doubtful enough about it
himself at the moment!—he would show
old Campbell that he was -no insignificant
failure, to be lightly and disparagingly
thought of. When that book of his was
written!
“But, all the same, father,” Fay’s voice
broke in on his thoughts—“but, all the
same, father, one can’t help feeling sorry
for him. It’s so obvious that he is a
gentleman—that he is like a fish out of
water in that company. That terrible girl!
Did you ever hear such a name! Etty!
And that poky little ship! It is a tragedy.
One can’t help feeling that there must be
some sort of a tragedy behind a gentle-
man’s presence there, in those sordid sur-
roundings. He surely isn’t there of choice!”
The words came from the silence of the
night like a message of hope, stirring reso-
lutions that were flagging somewhat under
the combined influence of his inactivity and
the lack of cocaine. It had been a tempta-
tion to throw caution and commonsense to
the winds, to let them know that he was
there and throw himself on their mercy.
He listened as their footsteps died away
in the direction of the companion, and
then, for a long time, he lay motionless,
his eyes on the peephole through which he
could catch a glimpse of the silver of the
stars. They brought him a faint sense of
peace, they were so bright, and they rode
so steadily, thanks to the calmness of the
ocean, in the velvet of the night.
It was the gentle clanging of the ship’s
bell that woke him from a reverie. The
four double knocks, soft and musical,
seemed to hang in the air. lingering, waiting
for the answer .that stole back from the
look-out forward.
They were travelling at half-speed,
threading their way through a maze of
coral reefs, and Johns suddenly realised that
the sounds he had heard subconsciously
during his reverie had not been fairy bells,
after all, but the occasional warning note
from the look-out as another line of phos-
phorescence showed where a hidden reef
lay awash on the surface of the ocean.
It reminded him poignantly of Home.
Once he had travelled by Orient line from
Naples to Tilbury, and, as they had rolled
up the Channel, he had stood at the for-
ward railing of the promenade deck, strain-
ing his eyes as each fresh clang from the
look-out in the crow’s nest had signalled
another vessel in sight. It had amused him
to try to equal the look-out in discover-
ing them.
If only those occasional faint white lines
of phosphorescence that he could see by
peering through his spyhole were the white
cliffs of Dover! If only to-morrow they
should be making, instead of Zandavar,
the estuary of the Thames!
Chapter IV.
To Johns it seemed centuries later that
he came back for the nth time to a world
of misery and pain. He had dozed, on and
off, for he knew not how long. It had been
a constant succession of periods in which,
alternately, fitful sleep and nerve-racking
consciousness had struggled for supremacy.
But this time he had surely slept longer
than usual, and for that reason the throb-
bing of his nerves seemed more unbearable
than ever. He pressed both hands to his
supra-orbital nerves and longed for sleep
again. Why had he had to wake up? If
only he could have drifted on—on and on
until his weary heart should have ceased
its beating, should have “ceased upon the
midnight with no pain.”
But that was not for him. There was
to be no easy way out of things so far as
he was concerned. The road from Hell was
steep, and long, and beset with darting
knives that seared his consciousness and
stabbed now his supra-orbital nerves—and
at times his con-
science ! Knives that
found their way un-
erringly to his fount
of courage and ruth-
lessly drained it, so
that for seons at a
time he was without
hope, without wish for
anything but death.
“What was the use
of struggling? W r hy
not give in, sink down
to the lowest depths
of life, and so qualify
as quickly as possible
for Hell? Why did
he keep on hoping against hope? What
did it matter about his book? About
anything? The best thing he could do
was to kill himself as expeditiously as
possible. He would be forgotten in a year
—and there were very few people who
would even bother to forget him. Etty
perhaps—and Michael Varley. But they
were both banished from his life. It
had been, in some ways at least, an unselfish
action on his part, his desertion from the
Surf Queen. But it was going to cost him
dear. Etty could have cured him in time.
He knew that to be irrefutable.
But that chance was gone. And there was
no use in crying over spilt milk. When he
had got over his craving he knew that he
would be able to realise the fact clearly.
But just now it was hard, damnably hard!
He felt that he must shout the information
at himself—about the spilt milk—scream it
out so that it would penetrate through the
searing pain that scorched his eyes, and
hammered in his ears. No good crying over
spilt milk! “The pity on’t, lago”
Shakspeare. The pity on it! “Oh, pity, pity
me. The captain’s daughter she, and I that
lowly suitor!” Old Gilbert knew how to
write—he hit the nail on the head every
time. “The captain’s daughter she”
anyone would think that W.S.G. had been
thinking of Johns when he wrote that....
thinking of Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon., cooped up in a fuggy lifeboat
perhaps he had been—predestination again
God! but it was funny!
He started to laugh at the idea, softly, so
that the sound should not penetrate the
canvas covering of his hiding place. For,
through the mania of pain that was be-
sieging him, despite the ceaseless throbbing
of his every nerve for the balm of the
cocaine, he realised that he must be
cautious. Thank God he still had enough
self-control left to avoid giving himself
away; to refrain from crawling out on deck
—as so many might have done—to beg and
grovel for some “snow.” To come crawling
out into the night
It was night again. Suddenly he con-
centrated himself in a stupendous effort,
quelling for a moment the turmoil in his
brain and body. It was night again, and
the engines were throbbing, there was no
whisper from the bow wave. The Arethusa
was no longer a living thing, pulsing her
way through the ocean, across the world.
Once, as he listened, a siren, low and
muted by distance, came to him, but other-
wise his straining ears could hear no sound.
The world was silent and the Arethusa
slept.
They were in Zandavar!
The realisation gave Johns strength of
mind to steady himself, to tense every
nerve while he listened for any sound.
For five minutes he crouched motionless,
scarcely daring to draw breath. But no
sound came from the Arethusa. She might
have been a ship of the dead, so silent she
was. He could hear no footsteps on the
bridge but he guessed that there would be
someone on watch somewhere. But harbor
watches, he knew, were inclined to be per-
functory at any time, and on a pleasure
yacht, he decided, they would be but the
merest farce.
But he waited yet another five minutes,
crouched in his attitude of listening, before
he ventured to unloose the lashings that
held in place his canvas roof. Ludicrously
like the result of some conjuring trick his
face suddenly appeared above the gunwale
of the boat. Then, reassured, he crept forth,
retied the lashings, and tiptoed to the star-
board rail.
Luck was with him that night. The Are-
thusa, with her shallow draft, had been able
to tie up instead of anchoring in the road-
stead. That made his problem easier. If
he had had to face not only the risk of
detection in leaving the ship, but also that
other and more grisly hazard of swimming
to shore, his resolution might have faltered.
As it was, he made the jetty in safety, and
came a moment later to the narrow street
that led from the jetty’s foot towards the
city.
A skulking figure resolved itself from the
shadows that marked the entrance to an
alleyway. Johns recoiled as the meaning of
the pidgin English dawned on him; then,
halting, he addressed the figure that was
once more dissolving into its parent shadows.
“Wooden Charlie—where?”
“One shilling, Mister—l show.”
Johns nodded his acceptance of the bar-
gain, and the figure moved on ahead of him,
gliding noiselessly. Johns followed wearily.
Now that the ship had been safely left
behind, his will was beginning to weaken,
and nerves which had been held in tem-
porary subjection were recommencing their
protests. The road was uneven and puddled
with water, which he sensed was slimy and
putrescent. The sf.ench from it irritated his
nostrils, so that the longing for the cocaine
received still further stimulation, and hio
supra-orbital nerves became almost unbear-
able.
“Hurry, for God’s sake!” he commanded
once, and the figure ahead quickened its
pace until he could hardly keep up with it.
The narrow streets which they traversed
were empty and deserted. Occasionally a
glint of light showed from behind some
carelessly-closed shutter, but the hint of
life behind the darkness only served to make
the streets more ominous in their apparent
lifelessness. The fancy came to him that
he was pursuing some ghost through the
City of the Dead, and the sinister menace ot
those silent, shuttered hovels weighed down
on him so that more than once his legs
almost refused to carry him, and his over-
taut nerves, jangling more insistently with
every minute, threatened to give way alto-
gether, and send him, screaming and
maniacal, in blind unseeing flight from God
knew what.
“For Christ’s sake!” he babbled to him-
self. “For Christ’s sake! It can’t be far
now. Don’t let it get you, you fool!”
Once the sound of music came to him. It
was tenuous, scarcely audible; the faint
melody of some reed instrument snaking fur-
tively into the night, and yet it agonised
his eardrums. He felt a vague unreasoning
panic that was not physical.
“How much further?” he heard himself
ask, and the figure ahead waved one arm
reassuringly, and almost simultaneously dis-
appeared around an unsuspected corner.
Johns forced his leaden feet into a shambling
trot. What df he should lose that spectral
guide? What would happen then? Dante
without his Virgil!.... God, would he have
to stay for ever face-downwards in those
slimy puddles, with his legs waving feebly
in the foetid air?
As he rounded the corner, he halted in
astonishment. A moment before they had
been traversing a city of the Dead. Three
steps had transported him to a street of
Life. Half a dozen open doors flooded the
dark roadway with wedges of light; people
moved on the footwalks; from the furthest
door the muffled sound of an orchestra
came forth, and, as though to greet his
arrival, a burst of song sprang into being,
and three men, obviously sailors, staggered
out arm in arm.
Johns started as he felt a touch on his
elbow. His guide was standing beside him,
pointing to the doorway from which the
singers had come.
“Wooden Chawlie—yes.”
Automatically he put his hand into his
pocket for the shilling that he had promised.
He laughed harshly as he realised that he
had no money. As his hand came out
empty, his guide started to gesticulate.
Gone for the moment was the furtiveness.
Here was a shilling honestly earned, and
as such to be righteously clamored for.
“Shut up!” Johns implored. “Oh. for
Christ’s sake, shut up!”
The three sailors had stopped in their
tracks and were eyeing the little scene with
the owlish seriousness of the half-drunk.
One of them disentangled his arms from
his companions, and teetered towards Johns.
“Hey, what’s this?” he demanded thickly,
and then, as the chattering creature’s face
moved for a moment into the light, he
swore. “You, Mo-sina! What the are
you doin’ up ’ere? You git back to yer
Hell-hole. No white men for you! Not
if I know it!” He broke off abruptly as
a spasm of hiccoughs made speech for the
moment impossible. Then he turned to
Johns a.nd shook his head slowly, and with
ludicrous solemnity. “Leprosy,” he said, and
repeated the word two or three times as
though the sound of it gave him infinite
pleasure. “Leprosy, that’s Mo-sina’s little
trouble! Or one—hie—of them! You
steer clear, young feller!”
Johns beat his forehead in a sudden spasm
of neurotic exasperation.
“God,” he babbled. “What do you
think! I promised her a shilling to guide
me to Wooden Charlie’s.”
“Oh!” The information steadied the
sailor for a second. As though realising the
propriety of such a business relationship,
he stifled a virile hiccough behind an un-
cleanly hand. “Oh, well, w’y don’t you pay
’er an’ get rid of ’or?”
“How can I?” Johns spread his hands.
“She can have it in a minute—as soon as I
get it from Wooden Charlie.” His voice
rose in his anxiety to establish his honesty
of intent. “I tell you I’ve just landed. But
I’ve got a letter for Charlie—he’ll fix me
up!”
Again the sailor nodded slowly.
“’Ow much’ll you be gettin’ from ’im?”
“Ten pounds.”
The other whistled softly. He put his
hand in his pocket, and, picking over a
small pile of silver, flipped a coin at the
woman and spat a dozen staccato words at
her which were unintelligible to Johns.
Like a bad dream his guide was suddenly
swallowed up in the night. Johns scarcely
realised that she was gone before he was
being escorted into Wooden Charlie’s by
the liquidator of his debt, his benefactor’s
two companions forming an enthusiastic and
optimistic rearguard.
As the passage opened into a large room
which bore at its entrance the impressive
designation “restaurant,” Ernest William
Johns, M.A. Oxon., shuddered violently.
After the long weeks of pure sea air the
. smoky veil that filled the room assailed
his nostrils with a nauseating effect even
worse than that of the streets of darkness
and foefor through which he had just passed.
“Come on!” his companion urged, grip-
ping Johns by the elbow as he involuntarily


w
6 Volt! 13 Plates
76/-
- Also obtainable
6 VoWs ISPja‘«
BVolts 9 pldtes
S!iipi!U!U MUU " u iV
New Construction
Lower Price
rjfa Quiff VtartiM)
you sr *£ y
txi**
its *"
VVh e °
TheExide “44” Battery makes dependable starting within
the reach of all. Only the facilities of “The World’s Larg-
est Manufacturers of Storage Batteries for Every Purpose”
could produce such quality at such a low price This bat-
tery, like all Exides, has exceptional cold-weather
starting ability. Of equal importance, it retains its
original power during its long useful life. Laboratory
tests show that the Exide “44” retains its 'rated capacity
for 91% of its long life. Such stamina and endurance
is available in no other battery at the price of the “ 44.”
Its performance is insurance against starting failure—the
cost of recharge and rentals—inconvenience and delays on
the road. Its true economy is measured not only in long
life but also in the service which it renders during its life
—namely dependable starting.
For dependable starting at low first cost Exide recom-
mends the Exide “44” Battery.
Jtie Quick Starting**! l
44
When it’* an £xt&« You START
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery Service
(Q.), T.td.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle
and Co., Ltd.); Melbourne—A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide —
Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd. ; Perth—M. .1. Bateman, Ltd.;
Hobart—Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
F 22
X'j&t&uxAy ,
JtaiuAe
is/urt£ Stcxici, SCajjte.
$■ Screen Juried, /*a
t&e 2&rudt? S^e
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6?
JLOIdIVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT,
Sydney Rcy.: 11. C. ill M’TftLTFFE,
2 HUNTF.R STKRKT.
THE FINEST AID
TO REAL BEAUTY
SSiSSfiW:?
m
m
,
V
MS;
■
1881
XK-y.
' m w
4 %
s ' 5> V
II
M
Retain your youthful beauty prevent
sightly skin blemishes, sallowness, dull eye;
and sagging facial muscles —by following
this simple rule: first thing every morning,
drink a glass of sparkling Eno’s “Fruit Salt”.
Remember that not even the costliest cos-
metics can hide the evil effects of a clogged,
poorly functioning system. Eno assures the
inner cleanliness and pure blood which are
the only real foundations of a good com-
plexion. Millions of women have proved
this. So can you. But be sure you get Eno.
c iabc words Sno and " < ttruit Salt’ are registered trade marks.
Sales 3%s ents • IKarold I Z7. i/Utcbie & Go. £td. Sydney. Au. 9
ENOS FRUIT SALT
held back, and the two behind him closed
in anxiously. “Come on. We’ll find old
Charlie an’ fix up about that tenner.” He
leered pleasantly at Johns, and hiccoughed
excitedly. “Come on!” he urged again,
and Johns moved forward.
Through the blue haze he saw faces star-
ing at him; white, pallid faces, with hectic
scarlet lips, yellow faces, brown faces and
here and there a grinning mask of evil black-
ness with thick red lips which drooped sen-
suously to uncover coral white teeth.
“The Tower of Babel,” he told himself.
“From Gabriel’s Heaven to the Tower of
Babel—a personally conducted tour!”
Another thought struck him, and he started
to laugh. From a low chuckle his enjoy-
ment grew to a shuddering, shaking cackle
that held the focus of the room’s attention.
He nudged his companion. “What stratum’s
this, oh Virgil?” he ‘asked and guffawed at
the blank astonishment and incomprehen-
sion on the other’s face. “And where’s my
Beatrice?” Again his mood changed and
he suddenly started a maudlin sobbing.
One of the rearguard moved to his un-
occupied side.
“Get a wriggle on, ’Any!” lie heard him
urge hoarsely behind his head. “We’re
gelt in’ too popular with these cows!”
The faces were closing in on them. Johns
suddenly felt himself lifted in a strong pair
of arms and he was being carried by the
man called Harry through the over-inquisi-
tive mob. A door opened and shut and
he was dumped with scant ceremony on to
a table.
The comparative freshness of the air in
this new room revived him a little. There
was something to be done—what was it?
“Something attempted, something done”
Air, that was it! A night’s repose—the
letter that would buy it. His hand found
the inside pocket of his coat, and he man-
aged to pull the letter out.
A strange face suddenly appeared leaning
over him. He felt the letter taken from his
hand and understood that the newcomer
was reading it. Then the strange eyes were
peeling at him again; a cool, soft finger was
feeling at his wrist for his pulse.
Almost without progression of time, it
seemed to Johns, a wisp of paper was held
to his nostrils and peace began to come out
of the Hell that had been burning in his
brain. The throbbing of his supra-orbital
nerves began to cease, the noise of tomtoms
died away, leaving a strange ringing silence
in his ears; and the soul of Ernest William
Johns began to fight its way back to its
body.
He sat up suddenly,
“Thank you,” he said gravely, nodding
at the newest face. “1 take it that you
must be Wooden Charlie?”
The other nodded.
“And you have read the letter?”
Again the nod. The inscrutable face was
immobile, and the lids bordering the slightly
almond-shaped ej-es seemed to have lost
their function. Had it not been for the in-
telligence that gleamed irrepressibly in the
depths of the pupils, Johns felt that he
could have imagined himself to have been
looking at the face of a corpse, open-eyed
in death. But he knew that those eyes
were studying him, reading—and reading
accurate!}- —the things they wished to know.
“Well, what about that tenner?”
The man Harry was getting a little im-
patient. His thirst was rising rapidly.
The mask suddenly came to life.
“This gentleman is a friend of mine!”
The words were crisp and incisive. “Hi 1 is
not one of your gutter companions that you
can mulct or garrotte at pleasure!” Johns
stared in fascination. The grotesquerie of
the scene stirred his imagination. A China-
man speaking perfect English, and dressing-
down three white men! It blasted all his
preconceived ideas. It was too utterly in-
congruous. Until then the yellow races
had been, to him, just so many million
people always ready and even willing to
do the white man’s bidding. And here
were three white men backing out of the
room at the command of one yellow man!
Johns listened in amazement. “Drunken
swine—out of my house! And if this
gentleman owes you money, which I doubt,
T shall see that the debt is paid.”
Johns had the sensation that he was
living in a melodrama. This was not real
—he would wake soon and find himself back
on the Arethusa, or on the Surf Queen!
He watched the three men pass through
the doorway. The one called Harry turned
suddenly. He was about to say something—
a threat obviously. But it remained un-
spoken. A sudden attack of hiccoughs left
the sailor stranded, like a codfish, goggling
and mouthing; and then, before the seizure
was over, Wooden Charlie, with a contemp-
tuous gesture had closed the door on the
owlish, staring eyes.
“You will want to go to bed,” he remarked
to Johns. The three sailors, with their plot,
were obviously not worth a second mention.
They had been wiped out of consideration
with the closing of the door.
Johns nodded.
“Thank you. I have had a crowded hour.”
The other nodded, and for an instant a
smile lighted his impassive features.
“And now—glorious sleep! A tiny cycle
of Cathay!”
Johns stared in astonishment.
“Good God!” The exclamation was wrung
from him before he realised it. “I am
sorry,” he quickly added in apology. “But
you startled me. One does not expect to
find one’s quotations capped as neatly as
that in”
He broke off in embarrassment and the
quick blood hued his face as he saw once
more the twinkle in the other’s eyres.
‘‘Why not finish it?” Wooden Charlie
asked. “I make no pretences. Why not
finish, then? ‘In a low-down drinking hell.’ ”
f or a moment the spirit of the East sprang,
like a striking snake, to the eyes, making
them pin points of venom. “It is a hell-
hole—thanks to our—to your white civilisa-
tion. I am nothing, you see. A mere
mongrel. A pariah, outcast by white and
yellow. Get down on your knees to-night
and thank your God that you will never
know the true significance of the word
Chi-chi!” He smote liis forehead with an
open palm. “I think I am a little mad
to-niglit. The shock of meeting a gentleman
is too much for me. I. whom they call
‘Wooden’ Charlie because my face is a
mask that matches my speech, am telling
to you, a stranger, things that Flower of
the Night does not know—for certain.” He
shrugged. “But that is why I am here.
One must make a living; and an honorable
living was denied to me by the very civili-
sation that made of my mother a lady.”
He broke off with a.n expressive shrug.
“Forgive me,” he apologised. “That is
the white blood speaking. Like calling to
like perhaps.” Again the mask of the Orient
slipped into place, and with a sharp clap of
his hands the proprietor of the “drinking
hell” summoned two servants.
Ten minutes later Ernest William Johns
was lying between clean sheets. His nerves
were at rest, and on the table by the bed-
side there lay two twists of paper, each with
its whiff of cocaine against his next awaken-
ing.
In Zandavar £10 English can bo made to
go a long way, especially when one has a
Wooden Charlie to buy for one.
It was with something of the assurance
that he had known in the good years that
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., clad
neatly in freshly-ironed tussore silk, walked
into the lounge of the Hotel Australie.
Three days on shore, under the ministra-
tions of Wooden Charlie, had brought back
a tinge of color to his cheeks, and his eyes,
as they glanced from face to face, were
clear and alert. That the money which b-
jingled in his . pocket was the last of that
ten pounds one would not have thought
from the calmness with which he strolled to
the long bar and ordered a Manhattan.
The people for whom he was looking were
not as yet in sight, and the leisurely sipping
of his cocktail would help to pass the time.
And, allowing a quarter of an hour for each
drink, he could afford to wait an hour for
them. He had worked it out accurately,
beyond risk of error. With that as maxi-
mum expenditure during the time of waiting
he could afford to take them both—if the
“both” were unavoidable—to dinner, and
for a drive along the beach road afterwards.
Then supper at the best restaurant that
Zandavar boasted, and so home again.
After that he would have to be content
to live cheaply. That it would have to be
so was inevitable. Ten shillings a week
would not permit of many extravagances.
But to offset that minimal salary there was
the knowledge that for so long as he cared
to remain with Wooden Charlie he was
safe.
It seemed months, he reflected as he
leisurely sipped his cocktail, since he had
stolen furtively off the Arethusa. And it
was barely three days. It was strange that
he should be so much at home already
in Zandavar. But undoubtedly Wooden
Charlie’s attitude towards him had done
much to foster the feeling. On the morning
after his arrival lie had wakened to find a
giant Kanaka, beaming all over his cherubic
face, waiting in the room ready to do his
bidding, whatever it might be. And the
message that he had delivered from Wooden
Charlie, urging him to make himself thor-
oughly at home, had stirred Johns the more
because it had been so unexpected.
And later that morning Wooden Charlie
himself had come into the room, where
Johns was still luxuriating in clean sheets.
In the morning light his face had looked
less Oriental, and the almond shape of the
eyes had been less noticeable, so that Johns,
as he lay listening to the other’s gently-
modulated voice, found it difficult at times
to realise that it was not an Englishman—
and of his own caste —who was speaking to
him.
They had talked of many things that
morning. Wooden Charlie, in his younger
days, had been a scholar at Johns’s old
school; but,, of course, long before Johns.
And they found many subjects in common
to discuss before the talk came round to
Johns and his craving, with the chain of
circumstances that it had forged.
The half-caste had been sympathetic with-
out undue inquisitiveness, and Johns, under
his tactful prompting, had unburdened his
soul to an extent that he would not have
thought possible. But he did 'not feel at any
time that he was talking to anything but an
equal, socially as well as intellectually.
Whatever the world might say of Wooden
Charlie’s parents as Wooden Charlie’s pro-
genitors, their respective worlds, white and
yellow, could have found nothing to cavil at
in their individual “family.”
It was this realisation that finally decided
Johns to accept the other’s offer. An offer
that would find him, the following morning,
installed as bookkeeper in Wooden Charlie’s
saloon at a salary of ten shillings a week,
“all found,” and ample time to write.
(To he continued next week.)


Are you about
to Travel?
The Travel Service of the
National Bank is ready to
help you. A full range of
information on routes, fares,
accommodation, passports,
taxation requirements, time-
tables, booking, etc., is avail-
able at its principal offices
in Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane either direct or
through any of the Bank’s
branches.
Ask for the free folder
“Outward & Inward Bound.”
Bfce National Bank
of Australasia, Limited.
Principal Sydney Office: 342-346 George Street.
Capital and Reserves . . £8,300,000
Total Assets . . . . 44,000,000
OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SELLERS OF
New Zealand Notes,, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 'Phone 85417.
S
* S
‘‘The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph k Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
TO MEN
nearing
MIDDLE-AGE
7
Beware Age 40 When your Life
Line starts threateningly to Decline.
The average life ends at about 55. At 40, the
pace noticeably slows—and worrying signs
appear. These tell of kidney and bladder
breakdown; failure to eliminate the system’s
poison wastes, especially of uric acid.' Back,
loin and groin pains appear, swollen joints
and limbs; increasing need for urination;
possibly severe inflammation of the bladder
and urinary tract; rheumatism, which cripples
and weakens the heart. Keep your kidneys
and bladder in health by taking Harrison’s
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
These will free you from aches, pains, stiffpess
and that growing weariness and weakness
arising from your kidney and bladder strain.
Harrison’s Pills will give you a new source
of strength and health at a time when neglect
may prove irreparable. Doctors and nurses
x-ecommend Harrison’s Pills, while chemists
everywhere sell them at trifling cost.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In 1919 Rupert Watson, a Murray River
pastoralist, started Tinana and Lady Reigle
in the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle. With
Cairns up, Tinana was made favorite, while
the mare was a 15-to-l chance. Tinana fell,
but Lady Reigle finished a close second to
Will Comfort. On the concluding day of
the meeting Cairns weighed out for Calais
in the Doutta Galla Hurdle. He experi-
enced another fall, and, by the irony of fate,
a stable boy scored on his (Cairns’s) G. N.
mount. Both Lady Reigle and Tinana were
trained at Bendigo by Harry McCalman.
Watson sent Lady Reigle to the stud, and,
mated with Lanius, the daughter of Majestic
produced Laniroi. who won the Toolambool
Hurdle at Caulfield last Saturday. For a
brief period Laniroi was jointly raced by
Watson and McCalman, who lately took up
residence in Adelaide.
There is jumping blood on both sides of
Laniroi’s pedigree. Lanius (imp.) has given
the turf many fine hurdlers and ’chasers.
Lady Reigle is by Majestic, who sired Realm,
winner of the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle, Australian Cup and Sydney Cup.
Majestic was a son of Trenton, sire of the
1901 G. N. Hurdle hero, Shoddy. It is on
the cards that “National” honors await Lani-
roi. At Moonee Valley on June 11 he pro-
bably would have beaten St. Magnus in the
Windarra Hurdle but for being squeezed out
at the home turn. St. Magnus was a warm
favorite at Caulfield. He finished only a
moderate third, and the Grand National
situation was further complicated by Nauru,
who heads the quotes on that event, figuring
among the also-rans.
Bert;'Mb like to do something, bus
IN LIFE?
Giert ;" Verv noble thought 1"
Bert. "I- well. i wn*t to be
LIONIIED *
GERT:"whV, them, try &1G CS&.MB HUNTING)
in \frico* f Bert)'
Toolambool Hurdle form was difficult to
gauge accurately because of Black Devil con-
tinuing in the race after dumping his jockey
at the first hurdle in the straight. Black
Devil got in the way of Ithuriel and his
immediate pursuer, Bhopal, and the riders
of other horses may have been afraid to
move up into the danger zone. Thompson,
on Bhopal, ranged alongside Black Devil at
the back of the course, and gave him a
crack with the whip; but the gelding did
not drop out until he collided with the rails
when approaching the home turn. Ithuriel
compounded at this stage, leaving the leader-
ship to Bhopal and St. Magnus. They w.ere
challenged at the last obstacle by Laniroi.
who scored nicely. St. Magnus tired, and
was 24 lengths behind Bhopal. Stable con-
nections are confident that he will do better
at Flemington, as something happened to
him in the race on Saturday.
Cockcrow, last year’s G. N. Hurdle winner,
ran so poorly in the Toolambool Hurdle that
he must be discarded. Howson, who was
associated with his 1931 triumph, has been
retained for St.' Magnus. This jockey will
have to look for another mount in the Grand
National Steeplechase, as West Wing met
with such severe injury in the Wanda
Steeplechase that he will have to be
scratched. West Wing stifled a fence, and
had to be pulled up by Howson; he came in
on three legs. The winner turned up in
Royal Banquet, a brother to Mercian King
and Royal Feast. The last-named held the
record as a juvenile stake-earner in Aus-
tralia until Mollison deprived him of it.
C. B. Kellow and William McCulloch opened
their purse strings to buy Royal Banquet
privately as a yearling, but he was a hope-
less proposition on the flat, and now is
trained and raced by R. Brown.
Royal Banquet is a recruit to; the cross-
country game, and was not entered for the
Grand National Steeplechase; but Sarocto,
whom George William narrowly defeated for
second place in the Wanda Steeplechase, is
labelled a sure runner at Flemington on
July 9. He belongs to “S. A. Rawdon” and
is trained by Adam Skirving, who piloted
Redeemer to victory in a Caulfield Grand
National Hurdle and prepared Nigel for his
Australian Steeplechase victory in 1908.
Having won over hurdles and brush fences
this season, Sarocto may have an outside
chance in the big steeplechase.
sse $ $
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Port Phillip Hurdle: St. Magnus or
Bhopal.
Williamstown Steeplechase: Sandhurst or
Jumna.
* * * *
Horses for courses again. In a division
of the Flying Handicap at Moorefield on
Saturday Vallage (Valais —Mucilage) regis-
tered his third recent win on that course —
and he has succeeded nowhere else. He was
favorite at 5 to 2, and always looked to
be going comfortably, though Orby An thus
and Dunerc made a fairly interesting finish
of it. Both were backed. Cleave (7 to 2),
advantaged by a 51b. allowance, which
brought her weight to Sst. lib., took the
second division with a good finishing run.
Plard Words, the favorite, and Bowery, were
next; Brazenface, who ran a peculiar race,
was close up.
Servius (Cistercian-Epacris) made hacks
of his opponents in the Kogarah Stakes, for
which he went out at 7 to 1; Kingdale was
a disappointing favorite. On this showing
Servius is a pretty good horse; but the
truth probably is that the others are a poor
lot. Like Cleave, he was ridden by the
apprentice Welsh.
Cooley, the owner of Dame Moab, was reck-
oned to be lucky at Randwiek in getting the
Second Nursery Handicap on a protest. If
so, his luck did not stick to him in the
Juvenile Handicap at Moorefield. Out from
the ruck a bit earlier, Dame Moab would
probably have repeated her success of a
week before without the necessity of a pro-
test ; as it was, she had to strike her colors
to Drinker (7 to 1), a Tippler colt trained
by Guy. Dover Patrol, by Heroic —Winter,
was third. Britt, who rode Queen
Moab, was not too late with his finishing
run on Wallace Mimi (7 to 2) in the Moore-
field Handicap, wherein Don Moon (12 to
1) battled it out gallantly with the winner
and Moallin (10 to 1). He is just on 10
years old, but can still beat many of the
younger ones.
With the scratching of New King for the
Rockdale Mile, McShortodds was puzzled to
find a favorite. He offered 6 to 1 the field, and
there was some spirited betting, 10 of the
16 horses being backed. Herolage (10 to
1) looked the winner most of the way, but
he is not so fortunate on his home course
as his half-brother and stable-mate Vallage,
and after leading most of the way up the
straight he was worried out of it by the
country horse Nouveau, who was supported
from eights to sixes. Chuquisaca, for whom
there was also a late commission, flashed
past the beaten Herolage in the last few
strides. Alienor seemed a probability at the
home turn, but could not come on. Cook
was on Nouveau and on Vallage.
* * * $
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Omagh or
Maybe; next, Senator.
Flying Welter: Port Said or Omagh; next,
Weotara.
June Handicap: Khartoum; next, New
King.
Maiden Handicap: Ramrod; next, Nord.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: West Australian Turf Club
is the latest to adopt the doubles tote, which
is finding popularity everywhere, and is in l
stalling a ss. machine for paddock bettors
as well. Time the A.J.C. gave its patrons a
chance to pick “this and the next.” There is
no doubt that double-tote betting has added a
zest to racing for the small punter, who,
after all, is the man who finds the bulk of
the money which keeps the big racing clubs
going.
$ * *
The Royal Hunt Cup at Ascot, one of
the world’s classic handicap events, carries
extra interest for Australians this year since
the winner, Totaig, was ridden by an Aus-
tralian jockey, Benny Rosen. Rosen began
his riding in Sydney, but did not set the
Harbor on fire. Then he went to Maoriland
and later to India, where he rose to the
front rank of jockeys. Some time ago he
left the coral strand for the Continent, where
he has been riding with some success in
France and Germany. This was his first
mount in England.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Leon Labriola (14.3) tried to beat Lurick
(14.2) in showmanship at Leichhardt. While
Labriola acted the buffoon, Lurich wrestled,
and the Russian won by two falls to
one. Labriola lost the first fall in the
second round, when a body-press beat him.
He surprised everyone, including his oppo-
nent, by evening matters with a headlock
in the fourth. This evidently angered the
Sovietlander, who soon scored the deciding
fall with a body-scissors.
Footbrawl
The meeting of the undefeated South
Melbourne and Geelong teams on Satur-
day drew 35,000 to South’s ground. Game
was willing, “Sowth” having the speed,
Geelong the weight. By half-time the
locals had notched a 28-point lead, which
set the Hubbites thinking. Thereafter
they smashed their way through regard-
less of everything but getting the ball
through the posts; but the Red-and-Whites
were just as determined, and had the better
pace. Starting the last spell, Geelong scored
two swift goals and gained a 6-point lead.
Twice they lost and regained it, but just
on the bell South tore down and liicked two
goals, winning by 9 points—los to 96. Stars
of the game were mostly men from the
western States —Moloney (W.A.) and Quinn
(S.A.) for Geelong, and Leonard, Beard
and Higgins, all from W.A., for South.
(There seems to be a powerful hint here
somewhere.) None of the other games gave
much excitement, though Essendon had a hard
tussle with Hawthorn, winning by 65 to 51.
Melbourne lost its seventh consecutive game,
this time to Collingwood—B3 to 101; Carl-
ton galloped over St. Kilda with 118 to 54;
Richmond downed Fitzroy by 100 to 61; and
Footscray pulverised North Melbourne, 91-
62.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The proposed tour of America
by two teams of footballers playing exhibi-
tion games under the Australian code has
caught the public fancy. If the tour is made
it is understood it will be under the aus-
pices of the Metropolitan Amateur Associa-
tions in Melbourne and Adelaide, which are
mostly recruited from G.P.S. and University
players. Sydney is considering the forma-
tion of a similar body.
* * * *
The second Test match’ between the North
of England and the N.S.W.-Q. Rugby League
footballers was played in Brisbane, and
ended in a convincing win for the home
side by 15 (3 tries and three goals) to 6
(2 tries). Australia opened the scor-
ing in the first five minutes with a try by
Gee, which Weissel converted. Another
unconverted try was added and, with a
penalty goal from Weissel, scores were 10-0
at half-time in Australia’s favor. The second
half was a bitter struggle, men being laid
out on both sides; at one time before
the end Australia had three men on the
sideline. England tacked on tries by Smith
and Pollard, but raised no further points.
Then, after a spectacular run by Weissel,
Gee, who had returned to the field after
being carried off on a stretcher, scored the
final try for Weissel to convert. Nearly all
the players bore marks of the affray, Demp-
sey, the big Queensland forward, coming off
worst with a broken arm. A large crowd
watched the match and the bash.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby Leaguers ended their sixth
round of competition play with South Syd-
ney, Eastern Suburbs and Western Suburbs
all level with 10 points apiece. Souths beat
their old foes, Easts, at the Sports Ground
by 15-5, or 3 tries and 3 goals to a goal
and a try. Western Suburbs downed St.
George at Pratten Park by 15-5, while Bal-
main avenged itself for previous misfor-
tunes by outing University, 26-10. At Mar-
riekville, Newtown had a narrow win from
North Sydney, scoring 12-10, or 2 tries and
3 goals to a goal and a try.
* * * ❖
In the Rugby Union grade games in
Sydney, the defeat of Manly brought another
change in the competition table, which
Randwiek now heads by a point. Play-
ing at home, Drummoyne won by S
points to 3, scoring 2 tries and converting
one, to a try by Manly. At Coogee Oval
Randwiek beat the improving St. George
14-5, while Eastern Suburbs won comfort-
ably from University at the Cricket Ground
by 11-3. At North Sydney, the appearance
of the new centre three-quarter star T. Paul-
ing, with Western Suburbs, drew a good
crowd. He was too well watched to do much,
Northern Suburbs winning 10-3.
❖ ❖ * *
“Glenelg”: The introduction of Rugby
Union football to Adelaide, hitherto a temple
of the Australian game, is meeting with un-
expected success. The missionaries of tin
movement are not rushing things, but several
new clubs are being formed, and, most im-
portant of all, the local press is giving tin 1
bantling quite a lot of space. Adelaide
“Register” goes so far as to say that
“Schools would do well to consider taking
up the code. Rugby has not only an inter-
state appeal; it is played all over the
world.”
* sjc
“Outside Right”: There is some talk in
Australian Soccer circles of bringing out
two teams selected from English and Scot-
tish plajers for exhibition matches. Provided
the sides are also stacked up against the vari-
ous States, with a Test series in addition,
such a scheme should be a success. If they
play only exhibition games, the public in-
terest will soon wane. The British team
here some years ago was an unqualified suc-
cess in its inter-State and Test matches.
(Continued on next page.)
The professional golf championship of
South Australia for the cup presented by
Dunlopra was won last week by A. Toogood,
professional at the Grange Club. The match
was played on the Glenelg course. Toogood
beating J. McLachlan, of Glenelg, 2 up.
Legh Winser, many times State amateur
champion, won the Royal Adelaide Club’s
championship at Seaton for the ninth time
since 1921.
* * * *
Crawford and Hopman made a good start
in England last week by leading a strong
field home in the Queen’s Club tennis tour-
ney. In the singles, Crawford beat the
Dutchman Timmer, one of the Continent’s
leading players, by three sets to one, and
with Hopman took the doubles, the pair
outing the Japanese, Miki and Satoh, in
three straight sets.


Guard That Waistline!
w
Install a
“Classic” Home
Rowboat Exerciser
Hailed by the medical profession and
physical culturists as the greater body-
builder and reducer ever invented.
Regular daily use brings a buoyancy of
Price, 65/- Complete
(Freight Extra).
spirits, a mental and physical exhilar-
ation hardly believed possible.
Get rid of that useless, harmful, and sagging flesh. A few minutes’
daily use in the privacy of your bedroom means definite results in less
than a week.
A “Classic” Rowboat is being used by the English Footballers
in the course of their severe training during the Australian tour.
See it demonstrated
in the Gymnasium
Department, on the
Ground Floor.
MickSimmonsltd
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia ”
VISIT MICK SIMMONS* NEW “MODERN RADIO,”
At 28-30 MARTIN PLACE.
s*
'-i"
*
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
# For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George • Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN «
Footbrawl
“Stand Off” : By the time this gets into
print the All Blacks will have landed m
Sydney. They played the customary vale-
dictory match against Wellington, before
leaving the Shivery Isles, and were licked as
usual —with a tour of Australia ahead, the
selected coterie give more attention to keep-
ing themselves intact than to winning an
unimportant game. The Islanders have had
one bad knock back. G. F. Hart, their dash-
ing winger, has been dropped because, of
injury and replaced by N. Ball, of Welling-
ton. Hart, however, is accompanying the
side as a traveller, and if he is fit again
it is more than likely he will be co-opted by
the All Blacks —especially when these find,
as I expect they will, that the Australian
opposition on its own midden is stronger
this year than ever before.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The British Rugby League team'
took the first knock of its tour in Bris-
bane when a Metropolitan side whacked it
by 18 to 15. The visitors were certainly
only fielding their second string, and that
fine centre three-quarter Dingsdale had
to go off with a knee injury. The match
was the first, played between Brisbane and
an English team under this code since 1922.
“Wage Plug”: I am wondering whether
the touring Rugby League footballers from
England are solid unionists. With some
knowledge of the two counties they come
from, I am prepared to swear they are. If
these lads —-whatever their jobs in the off
season, tacklers, operatives, etc—were
asked to work a week which practically
amounted to all round the clock, they would
probably go on .strike. Yet they seem to
be meekly acquiescing in a Queensland
itinerary which binds them down to a trip of
a. thousand miles and a bit from Brisbane to
Cairns. The tour will involve six games in
15 days of travelling to Cairns and back
to Brisbane, and after that there will be
two tough games in Queensland before the
return to Sydney for the the third Test.
It looks like victimisation to me.
* * * *
“Stoush”: If the game between Queens-
land and the English Rugby League tourists
was “the roughest and dirtiest yet seen” (B.
15/6/’32l it must have been a ringabeila.
These League teams from England have
always managed to supply a game or two
closely approximating to indiscriminate
manslaughter. In Brisbane in 1924, Par-
kin’s side put up an exhibition of bash
which is still delightedly remembered. Sydney
also has witnessed these ebullitions of the
professional football temperament more than
once, including the punching of referee Tom
Macmahon as he came off the field by an
inmate of the Sydney. Cricket Ground mem-
bers’ stand. Objectors to that sort of thing
should remember that a player in profes-
sional sport must be on the winning side
if he is to earn money and keep his job.
Naturally he leaves no avenue unexplored
which may lead his side to victory.
Hi ❖ ❖ $
“Fitzcray”: A lot of the boys of Mel-
bourne village came close to fainting the
other day when Dave Macnamara was re-
instated as an amateur by the Australian
Football Association. Once upon a time
Dave was the acknowledged king of Vic-
torian League football. Men of Essendon
bowed down and worshipped him. as those
of Collingwood do to cricketer Jack Ryder
to-day. Of late years Dave has been busy
as a minor owner-trainer of racehorses, and
it is not yet certain whether he is returning
to football as a sideline to his training acti-
vities or just as a means of taking his mind
off the eternal problem of why horses don’t
win. A mighty kicker of goals, Mac has
the world’s record of 93 yards opposite his
name for a place-kick. Though Australian
Rules enthusiasts are hard to convince, a
Rugby Union player. Norman Ebsworth,
holds the drop-kick championship with SO
yards.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotliam”: The Australian tennis rank-
ing list has been received with the usual
mixed feelings, and for the usual good rea-
sons. The first five, with Crawford in the
lead, are all N.S.W. players, though Hop-
man (2) now lives in Melbourne. Few will
agree that No. 5, with Sproule and Willard
ahead of him, is the proper place for young
McGrath. Queenslanders will also snort at
the relegation of Cummings and Moon to a
seventh-place bracket, and South Austra-
lians will take some convincing that Turn-
bull should not be higher than sixth. Has-
sett (9) is the only pukka Victorian to
figure in the list. Mrs. Buttsworth, of
N.S.W.. tops the women’s list, with Mrs.
Molesworth, of Queensland, third. Mrs.
Crawford is placed seventh. Miss Iv. le
Mesurier, in fourth place, is the chosen
South Australian, while Miss Hoddle-Wrig-
ley is running fifth for Victoria.
* . * * -4=
“Cut Shot”: If the American women
golfers got badly towelled in England the
other day by the local lasses, Uncle Sam’s
tennis daughters made amends in the annual
battle for the Wightman Cup, which they
won by four matches to three. Helen Wills-
Moody dominated the game, cleaning up all
opposition in the singles, but both the other
Americans, Mrs. Harper and Helen Jacobs,
had to take the knock from Mesdames Whit-
tingstall and King respectively. Helen is
evidently not as good in doubles as in the
solo game, for she and Miss Palfrey were
downed by Mrs. Whittingstall and Betty
Nuthall.
“Centre Court” : Harry Hopman did some-
thing to redeem his Davis Cup failure in
America at the Queen’s Club tourney in
London, au annual event which acts as a
warmer-up for Wimbledon. The Austra-
lian. staggered everyone by soundly de-
feating Ellsworth Vines, the American
champion, who had as soundly trounced
Harry on the other side of the Atlantic.
I’o be fair, it must be ’ said that Hop-
man has been playing on grass courts
•n England since June 3, while Vines, who
is much better accustomed to the American
hard courts, was just off the Transatlantic
voyage. Still, the win is encouraging,
though it again points the moral that the
Australian tennis authorities’ decision to
stage the first entry of the Australians to
the Cup contest in the dangerous American
zone was an act of folly.
Car and Cycle
‘‘Disc Clutch”: The winning of the 1000-
mile international motor-car race at Brook-
lands (B. 15/6/’32) by Australian Joan
Richmond in company with the English
motoriste, Mrs. Wisdom, constitutes some-
thing of a record. It is just 30 years
since an Australian figured with distinction
in a leading international motor event. The
hero of that occasion was S. F. Edge, later
to become one of the heads of the British
motor industry. He won the classic Gordon
Bennett Cup from Paris to Vienna, that con-
test then being the outstanding road race
of the motoring world. The Richmond, a
Melbourne product, has been motoring from
her school days, and last year she finished
second in her class in the 200-mile Victorian
Grand Prix, in which she averaged 57 m.p.h.
* * *
“Ecce”: Italy’s great annual road race for
motor-cars is the Goppa del Mille Miglia,
or the thousand-mile spin over a course
shaped like the figure 8, starting and finishing
at Brescia. In between the route runs
through most of the historic cities of north-
ern Italy. This year there was the usual
big entry, Britain being represented, by De
Clifford in a M.G. and Brian Lewis in a
Talbot. The race includes climbs up to
3000 ft., and there are many awkward
turns. At one, Borzacchini lost the treads of
two of his tyres. Persuaded to carry on
against his will, he eventually came out
triumphant, covering the long run in 14hr.
55min. 19 2-ssec. The winner was driving
an Alfa-Romeo, and this car filled the first
five places.
* * * *
‘‘Kick Starter”: Australia has had such
a bad spin in international games competi-
tions lately that one has to be thankful for
small mercies. One of these came our way
when Allan Bruce put up a world’s
motor-cycle plus sidecar record. Bruce did
the flying kilometre at 200.202 k.jp.h. # (124.40
m.p.h.). For the flying mile his time was
123.15 m.p.h. The German rider Henne last
year rode the respective distances at the
rates of 118.58 m.p.h. and 118.23 m.p.h.
Bruce’s cycle was a 996 Brough Superior
J.A.P., and the sidecar, made under an
Australian patent, was streamlined, with
fully enclosed wheel and three-point fixa-
tion. Ballast weighing 1401 b. was carried
instead of a passenger.
* * 3= *
“Whizz”: The Isle of Man Tourist
Trophy races Avere Avon by Stanley Woods,
who rides Norton-Dunlop machines. In the
Junior event he put up a record, averaging
77.16 m.p.h. for the seven-circuit course of
264 miles. In the Senior Woods averaged
79.38 m.p.h. Davenport on a New Im-
perial-Dunlop hit up 70.48 m.p.h. in the
Lightweight. Brewster and Pringle, the
Australian riders, both started off Avell, but
were outed by accidents. The rating for the
three classes is: Junior, 350 c.c.; Light-
weight. 250 c.c.; and Senior, wide open.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey” : The fifth turn-up for the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup occurred in Sydney last week,
N.S.W. winning from Maoriland after the
Ma State had eliminated Queensland.
The N.S.W.-Queensland match provided
just one thrill: the N.S.W. champion, Jim
Ferrier, had to gallop for his life to beat
veteran R. H. Cumming, one up. Against
Maoriland the Welshmen did not have such
an easy spin. They won both the four-
somes. George Thompson and Ferrier beat-
ing Hornabrook and Silk by II up, after
the visitors had been only one down at the
lunch interval, and R. H. Bettington and
Withycombe accounting for Black and Brins-
den two up. In the singles, Jim Ferrier
beat Silk two up, after a match full of re-
markable golf. Silk is the stylist of the All
Blacks, and a player who promises t 0 go
far. Bettington had no trouble in beating
Rana Wagg, the M.L. champion, who was
right off bis game, five up. Maoriland got
its own back Avhen Black finished throe up
on Withycomb, and Thompson was flattened
by Ilornabrook, five down.
“Centurion”: I have read with much
interest a cabled account of a golf match
in England betAveen admirals and generals.
It appears that the army Avas badly licked,
and I do not wonder at it. SomehoAv, train-
ing in the navy automatically gives one the
essential groundings of golf. As an ex-army
man, and one Avho has been exposed for years
to the comments of all ranks from R.S.M/s
to generals—l always think in this connec-
tion of the Avorld-famous Major-General
Tucker, of South African fame, while not
forgetting Allenby’s remarks to the Anzac
Mounted Division after the Surafend
“incident” in Palestine —I must say that my
opinion leaned towards the army as the most
successful breeding-ground of golfers until
a happening in the European Club at
Ismailia. I had made the acquaintance of
a newly-arrived post captain who had taken
over the command of one of the monitors
assisting the troops in Sinai from the
Mediterranean. An American cavalry officer
in liaison with one of the Light.' Horse
brigades came along and was introduced. He
Avas delighted at the honor, and said so.
“Naow,” he went on, “tell muh, skipper,
what’s th’ name uv yure boat?” It was
then that I realised how the Silent Navy
can rise to the occasion.
3: * * *
“Carnoustie” : The origins of golf are as
obscure as the origins of humanity. Scot-
land has unblushingly admitted paternity,
but the infection of the Dominions as these
Avere e\ r olved is a matter which historians
find it impossible to date. Canada has dis-
covered its first golfer in one William Dib-
man, a Scottish shipmaster who settled in
Quebec over a hundred years ago and Avas
accustomed to play on the historic Plains
of Abraham, where Woolfe stymied Mont-
calm. No one will be surprised at the state-
ment that those observing Dibman thus
engaged—playing a “lonesome” of course—
regarded him as being “of doubtful mental
balance.” There are many claims as to the
first perpetrators of golf in Australia, Vic-
toria and N.S.W. disputing the subject. At
Eidsvold station, in the Burnett district of
Queensland, writer has seen the iron clubs
used by the Ivory brothers, Avho originally
took up the run. The young Scots con-
structed a small course and played thereon
regularly, much to the amazement of all
spectators, white and black. That was before
Queensland ceased to become part of N.S.W.
Queensland Golf Council is preparing for
its annual country orgy in Exhibition Week.
For the benefit of those so unfortunate as
to have been born out of Queensland it
should be said that Exhibition Week corres-
ponds to the annual agricultural and pastoral
show gatherings of other States. The golfers
will begin their programme on August 8
with a stroke handicap. In all the pro-
gramme numbers 12 items for associate
members and players of the inferior sex.
The big event of the meeting is the open
go for the Royal Queensland Gup over 36
holes at Eagle Farm. For all events, except
number 8, an open mixed foursomes mixed
handicap, entries will be accepted only from
members of affiliated clubs, “other than Bris-
bane, Royal Queensland, Indooroopilly and
those comprised in the Outer Brisbane
Metropolitan Association.”
4: * * •-!:
“Divot Digger”: The spirit of Langism
seems to have invaded even golf, if a yarn
in one of the Sydney papers is to be be-
lieved. A player was set a half-stymie. He
failed to hole, but left the other man a com-
plete stymie. This individual then insisted
that the rules provided that one stymie could
not be set after another. It was sheer, im-
pudent bluff, and the mug bit. Lifting his
ball, lie, of course, lost the hole.
“Mid-Iron”: Touching those alleged
profits of American professional golfers 18.
15/6,/’32), Gene Sarazen has just been reck-
oning up how much his win in the British
open championship will bring him. He
considers that though he is not likely to find
himself on such a good financial wicket as
Hagen and Bobby Jones —the latter then an
amateur, by the way—he should pull down
an easy £5009.
Miscellaneous
“Green Checquer”: Sydney homer pigeon
fanciers are again suffering from the depre-
dations of those mean-so'uled shooters who
make a specialty of bagging the useful flyer.
There is no mistaking the bird for any
other variety, and the man who would kill
a homer on its way to the loft —often a nest-
ing hen in a hurry to get back to' her squabs
—is of the type who would steal a worm
from a blind bird. In every big flight re-
cently many birds have failed to come back,
and a considerable number of those which
did reach home have done so in a badly
wounded state. There is a £lO fine for
shooting homers, but it is hard to sheet home
the crime—it is nothing less —to the
crawlers responsible.
❖ :!< jJj sJj
“Altcar” : The N.S.W, Waterloo Cup for
this season was won at Rooty Ilill by
Father’s Glee, a black and white dog owned
by A. H. Carter. This is the sixth time
Carter has landed a Waterloo Cup. M ith
that great dog Terminus, he won the Aus-
tralian, two N.S.W. and one Victorian clas-
sic, and he secured another Victorian victory
with Tezie. t ,
“Thakambau” : For some reason or other
the annual Fijian bowls tourney for the
Pacific Cup and other trophies has failed
to attract a single entry from N.S.W.,
whereas in the past this State has been
foremost in the ranks of the Australian con-
tenders. Possibly kava is to blame. This
insidious beverage does not affect the mind,
which remains comparatively clear. It
makes its attack on the legs, and the man
who does himself well on it finds himself
unable to stand up. A confused head
doesn’t matter much, but a bowler who
cannot take his stand oil the mat is neither
use nor ornament. It might have been sup-
posed that Suva bowlers would have enacted
a local rule permitting the bowl to be. deli-
vered from a sitting position, but this re-
form seems to have been overlooked.
* * ❖ *
“Shrewsbury”: The Maofiland Rhodes
scholar ,T. F. Lovelock, who recently set up
a new British record for the mile, capped
the world’s best for the three-quarters in
a handicap at Stamford Bridge last week.
His time was 3min. 2 l-ssec., or three-fifths
of a second better than the figures of Yankee
T. P. Conneff, put up in New York as long
ago as 1895. Lovelock, who started from
scratch, ran fourth, and it was later found
that the track was a yard too long. Lovelock
may land the mile and kindred events _at
the* Olympiad for Maorilnnd, with which
country he is expected to strip at Los
Angeles.
si: ❖ ❖ *
“S.T.S.”: The S.A.C.A. has installed an
official bowling-pitch at Adelaide Oval. It
is an artificial surface in the 120 ft. dining-
hall under the Creswell Pavilion, and on it
Grimmett will coach all winter about 30
young bowlers selected from clubs and
schools.
* ■••• * *
“Lily White” : I am glad to’ report that
the latest assault on the amateur status has
been repulsed. An American pugilist is
being imported to make an Australian holi-
day. His name is Stribling, and in his own
land he is a noted basketball player.
Arrangements were made by some mis-
guided Sydney enthusiasts to enrol the pug
in their ranks and feature him in exhibi-
tion games. However, the N.S.W. amateur
sport authorities, who have been often
strangely lax as regards other sports, are
determined to keep basketball undefiled, and
have announced that the American will not
be allowed to throw his weight about. It
is understood that an equally firm stand will
be taken in the case of croquet and ping
pong, if necessary.


HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment*
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
»nd all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
1111I w ss t ds
PEPPERMINT
II CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE HOSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
KING’S THEATRE: SAINT JOAN,
By Bernard Shaw.
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Complete English Co.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directcrs: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE GOOD FAIRY.
(Commencing Saturday.)
mm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
r J’HE fair and impartial treatment
of all candidates at the recent
State Election by
“THE BARRIER MINER”
is just according to the old tradition
of fair play which is associated with
this Independent Broken Hill Daily
Newspaper.
“The Barrier Miner” is in the
FIRST CLASS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
When not at the opera you go to the
Glaciarium these nights, if you want to be
really in it. If you can't, skate —well, you
can sit on a backless wooden seat and shiver,
and clamp on a frozen smile, and wish in-
side yourself that you were at home in front
of a lire. Of course, if you can skate there’s
lots of fun waltzing or doing the quadrilles
and the figure eight, and then the blood cir-
culates more freely than money these days.
Just about 10.30 comes the order to clear
the floor: this means that there is an-
other five minutes to go, and unless you are
a topnotcher you’ll cut clear, for the going
gets fast and furious. Then there is the
rush for car or tram, and —final proof of
being right up to the minute —coffee and
sandwiches, sitting on a high stool at the
counter of one of Darlingliurst’s “American”
bars.
In spite of the cold the Town Hall was
packed on Saturday night for Galli-Curci’s
final concert. Every available heater was
set to work, but that didn’t stop icebergs
from sliding down spinal columns. Every-
body snuggled into her coat, and the tvisest
virgins brought rugs to wrap around their
legs. Galli-Curci herself seemed insensible
to the icy blast, and was a vivid figure in
her rose frock. The bodice, which was of
the cross-over variety, was of velvet, with
a vestee of silk, its only ornament a glit-
tering diamond brooch at the left side of
the waistline. Layers and layers of tulle
of a paler shade than the bodice went to
the making of the .skirt, and this was so full
that it spread out from the hip yoke, some-
thing like the skirt of a telephone doll. A
diamond clasp held together her three rows
of pearls.
It was comforting to those who went to
Her Majesty's for flic first hearing of “Un
Rallo in Maschera” to know that they could
listen to the domestic troubles of the Rein-
harts and even be in at the killing of the
Governor of Boston without risk of being
put under the third degree. Among those who
thoroughly enjoyed the heart-breaking arias
sung by Surani, De Bernardi and Franco Izal
were the Spencer Bruntons, Hugh and Lady
Denison (her black velvet frock had long
sleeves) ; the Consul-General for Italy and
Donna Grossardi; Mrs. F. J. Davy, in
fuchsia chiffons ; Lute Drummond, in white
corded silk; Mrs. T. H. Kelly, and Mar-
garet Chalmers, busy saying good-bye to
friends, as she was one of the advance
guard which left on Sunday to help in the
final rehearsals of the Melbourne choruses.
Signor Rossi, the conductor-in-chief of the
opera co., left on Sunday for Melbourne to
put tlie finishing touches on the work of the
chorus and get everything in trim for the
opening there. On Saturday night “Isabella
Orsini,” an overture by the maestro, was
performed for the first time in Australia be-
tween the second and third acts of “Lucia.”
Immediately following presentations were
made to him by the orchestra—one a copy
of “Conrad Martens and His Art,” contain-
ing reproductions of the artist’s paintings of
old Sydney, with a gold pen and pencil and
enough cigarettes to last him surely till he
gets back to Italy. A fitted dressing-case
came from the stars and management. Rossi
is very shy—says he would rather conduct
ten operas than make one speech. On Satur-
day night he just threw his arms around
Folli, and asked him to thank the company
for its good work and the public of Sydney
for its generous appreciation.
Two more Sydney girls arc to be heard
iu opera—Millie Hughes (Mrs. W. Moran)
and Daphne Lowe, who will be Mimi and
Musetta respectively in “Boheme” on Thurs-
day. Neither is more excited about it than
Mr. and Mrs. Roland Foster; Millie is one
of Roland’s pupils and Daphne one of Mrs.
Foster’s. When she heard the good news
Mrs. Foster got busy and arranged a party
for the girls at the Australia. The guests
Avere mostly opera-lovers, and included Mrs.
George Nassoor, all worked up over the
appearance of her husband as Mephistopheles
that very night.
Dr. Lucy Gullett and Grace Scobie
couldn’t attend the party which the Femi-
mnists held for the women candidates in
the recent election, but Mrs. Ruby Duncan,
Mrs. Melville and May Matthews came up
to collect the flowers with which president
Miss Preston Stanley and other members
greeted them. None of the candidates are
sorry they stood, this Letter gathers: each
feels she has gained experience that will
help her in her next campaign. But they
seem to think that until proportional repre-
sentation takes, the place of the present
preferential voting there isn’t much hope of
women being adequately represented in Par-
liament.
Harry Manning, K.C., who was beaten iu
King after a strenuous fight and then put
in the Upper House and made Attorney-
General, is a son of William Patrick Mann-
ing, who was agent here for the Rosebery
properties and got a knighthood in his de-
clining years. The widow and a daughter,
Edith, live in England, and so does Fred,
the youngest son, who is an author of some
distinction. A war-novel of his ran as a
serial in the defunct “Evening News.”
Harry married Norah Martin, youngest
daughter of the great Chief Justice, whose
portrait graces the courts, and they have a
flapper daughter. He was educated at River-
view and Sydney Uni. and shone at cricket,
rowing and boxing. He has chiefly figured
at the Bar in shipping cases, and he has
been a deputy-Judge in the Land and Valua-
tion Court. A brother, W.E., was a pro-
minent amateur rider at Tirranna and Bong
Bong in the days when Colin Stephen and
Ken Austin were performing. R‘e married
one of the Ben Osborne girls.
The Potts Point supporters of Danny Levy
are much put out because he didn’t get Mr.
Manning's job. He would have made an
ideal Attorney-General. H'e has the cause
of Law Reform at heart, and is the author
of some of the best articles on the subject
that have appeared in The Bulletin. His
debating powers would also have been help-
ful to Mr. Stevens in the stormy days to
come. He was a thorn in the sides of the
Langites in the last Parliament. So it isn’t
only the Hebrews of the Darlinghurst sector
who are bemoaning his supersession.
The fact that Mr. Bavin was passed over
is causing no heartburnings even in the con-
stituency where he got a record majority.
He is tipped for the next Supreme Court
Judgeship. Mr. Bavin hasn’t been figuring
in politics lately owing to the loss of a
beloved sister. Dora Bavin, who married
Dr. Allen in the early years of the century,
was a most lovable character, and she bad
an immense circle of friends and admirers
at the Duntroon Military College, where her
husband was the English master, and in
Canberra. Mr. Bavin went up for the
funeral last week, and son John appeared
for him and explained the position at the
declaration of the polls in Gordon.
Having left the writing job which had
chained her to the “Worker” for so long, Mary
Gilmore is cleaning out the drawers into
which she had slipped finished or half-
finished poems any time these last 30 years,
and, after putting them through the mill
again, is turning them over to her publish-
ers. Robertson and Mullens have another
book almost ready—“ Under the Wilgas” this
one is, and more aboriginal than even “The
Wild Swan,” with copious notes on Black
Brother’s laws and lore. There is to be an
edition de luxe, too, with an etching of
Mary’s bookplate—and that’s more abori-
ginal even than the book.
Mrs. Colin Venn, that energetic and
wholly sympathetic worker for the coun-
try woman,
looks at you
from this Falk
picture. Mrs.
Venn has been
part of the
C.W.A. ever
since it was
bom, and is
the only see-
retary the
Harbor side
branch has
ever had. At
the moment
she is carrying
the burden of
the Woolshed
Ball, which
will take place
at the Town
Hall on June
28. It would
be hard to find
anyone more
capable of doing the job; besides having a
wide understanding of the hardships of our
country sister, she possesses that rare
quality of being able to fire others with her
enthusiasm. The proceeds from the ball
go to the Harborside branch, but the real
object is, of course, to stimulate! interest in
our chief primary industry.
The whole Palm Beach colony, or so it
seemed, turned up to the ball of its Life
Saving Club, held this year at the Blaxland
Galleries. This annual winter shivoo is just
as popular as the small dances held at the
beach during the summer, and to it come
the same people—Curlewises and Pat Levys
and Byram Mansells and Bavins and Hun-
ters. All the tables sported the club’s
colors, green and black, but that of Mrs.
A. Samuels, the vice-president of the dance,
was further embellished with miniature
palm-trees under which bronze life-savers
rested. The frocking was colorful, though
not so vivid as the bathing-suits worn in
the summer; and if the sparkling Pacific
was missing, there were sparkling wines and
eyes and jewels.
Talking about surf life-saving clubs, we
in Australia are apt to take them rather for
granted. Actually, we were the first country
in the world to organise them, and what the
Surf Life Saving Association of Australia
says in connection with these matters goes.
S’Africa, India, Maoriland and Tasmania
have clubs run on the same lines as ours,
and South America is just starting them.
Holland has adopted our methods, too, but
in that country they are used not for surf
life-saving, but for ice life-saving. So we
dips our lid to’ Bronte, where the idea origi-
nated.
With 140 companies represented on its
organising committee, the success of the In-
surance Ball was assured from the start.
Held at the Palais Royal, to it came over
1200 eager to dance so that the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme might benefit.
During the evening 16 girls from the “Aida”
ballet gave an exhibition, and balloons and
novelties helped along the fun. Three debs.,
Valerie Dobbie, Enid Wilson and Dorothy
Lord, were presented to the Lud Mayor and
his lady, the latter wearing a frock of tur-
quoise-blue, with a hipline flounce and a
bustle bow.
The Mayoress’s winter clothing appeal has
brought her a host of workers, among them
Margaret Honey, who is secretary of the
younger set’s
c o m m i ttee.
Margaret is
pretty and
popular, and
twice recently
has appeared
in the title-
role of “Tilly
of 8100 m s-
bu l* y,” pro-
duced in aid
of local chari-
ties by the
dramatic so-
ciety of her
old school—
Doone. The
proceeds of
the last per-
formance,
which took
place on Fri-
day, go to the
Church of Eng-
land homes.
M.L.C. Old Girls rallied in great force
for the annual dance at the Wentworth.
Mrs. E. J. Channon, union president, enter-
tained Miss Mabel Fuller, president of the
Ravenswood Old Girls: Ilawdon Wilson,
president of the Old Newingtonians; and
E. O. Anderson and Mrs. Anderson, the
latter vice-president of the Secondary
Schools Club. Mrs. Channon’s frock was
of old-rose satin, and her velvet coat, of
the same shade, had deep cuffs of grey fur.
The committee flashed ribbon wristlets in the
college’s navy and pale blue.
Cricketer Frank Cush was the hero of the
St. George Hospital Ball, held at the Blax-
land Galleries, for he had presented, as a
prize for a guessing- competition, a bat
carrying autographs of members of the-
S. African, S. Australian and N. S. Wales
teams. Mrs. N. P. Nielson, president of
the committee, wearing soft black satin,
entertained a large party, including the lion,
secretary, Mrs. F. H. Hayton, in jade-green
chenille georgette.
A grandson of Henry Parkes was one of
the parties to a recent engagement. The
girl is Jessie, younger daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Patterson, of Winton
(Q.) ; the boy, Norman Alexander, younger
son of Varney, who was for some years
one of his father’s faithful Parliamentary
lieutenants.
At St. Patrick’s, Church Hill, at eight
o clock on a cold morning of last week
Marie Clare Carrigan, of Gordon and Moree,
was married to Dr. Edward Perry, of Goon-
diwindi (Q.). The wedding gown of ivory
satin was classic in its simplicity, its only
embellishment a string of pearis lent by
sister Mrs. B. Scott; a cut tulle veil and a
floral handbag of hyacinths and forget-me-
nots completed an attractive outfit. Brides-
maid Wendy Carrigan wore burnt orange
velvet and a three-cornered hat of autumn
berries and leaves, and the sheaf she carried
was of berries and leaves tpo. Father
Tuttle came from Moree to Perform the
ceremony. Toasts at the Metropole.
Two old Newcastle families foregathered
for the wedding of Phyllis Broughton,
youngest daughter of the late G. B. Brough-
ton and Mrs. Broughton, of Toronto, and
Edward Wansey, second son of the Sydney
Wanseys, of Newcastle, who exchanged vows
at St. Mary’s Basilica. Long sleeves and
a cowl collar were features of the wedding
gown, over which the cut tulle veil hung
like crisp frost. With it went a sheaf of
orchids and white hyacinths. The wedding
breakfast was at the Wentworth, where the
bride’s mother received the guests in black
ring velvet.
For weeks past Eleanor Gordon (married
last night to George Isaacs at the Great
Synagogue) has been the guest of honor at
teas and luncheons. One of the happiest
and largest was given for her at the Aus-
tralia last week by Mrs. A. B. Coleman, who
received her guests in a black panne velvet
model, with which she wore a small black
velvet liat.
Professor le Gay Brereton opened the sixth
exhibition of the Australian Art Society in
the Education Gallery, and it will stay open
until July 1. It is worth a visit. Kate
Beard’s Irish setter Micky came in for a lot
of attention on the opening day; so did Elsie
E. Middleton’s “To the Waterhole, Mt.
Druitt.” Noel Kubie’s “Opus II,” the half-
figure of a nude youth against a green-blue
curtain splashed with pink, was another that
caught the eye. In the students’ section
Barbara Joan MacDonell took the first prize
for a portrait in oils, and Olive Davies for
her black-and-white, “Carnival.”
Thursday, the night of the dental under-
grads’ ball, was one of the most shivery
we have had (this June has been our coldest
for 12 jrears), and the little six-weeks-old
Pomeranian, the prize in the guessing com-
petition, came to the dance wrapped in a
fur coat. Others who managed to keep
themselves warm were the five members of
the male ballet, who in outstanding Colum-
bine skirts pirouetted and postured under
the direction of Connie Fan-ant, and gravely
acknowledged the bouquets of leeks and
cauliflowers that rewarded their effort. Pro-
fessor Wallace, Vice-Chancellor of the Uni.,
and Professor Reading, Dean of the Faculty,
enjoyed the fun as much as the youngest
student or flapper. Over 600 turned up.
Arthur Allen has found a use for Eliza-
beth Bay House, which he bought when
the boom was ending and has had on his
hands ever since. Often at night the old
ballroom is lighted up, cars' are parked on
the roadway that bisects the once-beautiful
garden, and a depression party is staged
there. At other times it is a melancholy
spectacle. It occupies one of the most pic-
turesque sites in Sydney—one of the most
picturesque in the world—and its only
tenants are a white-bearded caretaker, com-
plete with small dogs, and—very occasion-
ally—John Longstaff, who has been given
a studio, which he uses when he is not in
Melbourne.
Hip coats of tiger- and leopard-skin are
among the new ideas, and touches of red
occur with a frequency that would give joy
to an artist holding a one-man show. Hats,
bags, dresses, scarves arc splashed with it
when they are not altogether of it. This
observant one tells that the needlework
maps, of which some of the C.W.A. members
showed such clever, examples at their last
exhibition, are quite a craze in London, where
they are also weaving maps into carpets,
screens and fire-screens.
Is there any -end to what these Diggers
will give? The other day into a hospital on
the North Side a woman was brought so
badly injured as the result of an accident
and losing so much blood that a transfu-
sion was called for at once. Her husband
and son offered their veins, but their blood
was not suitable. In response to an SOS.
from a near-by cab rank came a one-legged
Digger who cheerfully gave sufficient to help
the strange little woman back to health.
The Hungarian violinist Josef Szigeti.
whose concert tour of Australia begins in
Perth this week, is one of the outstanding
personalities in the world of music. His
visit was arranged by Hugo Larsen, who
ran the successful tour by Peter Dawson
and Mark Hambourg. Szigeti comes to Aus-
tralia at the height of his fame—he will
keep liis 40th birthday in Sydney.
Queensland’s quantum:—
Sir Leslie Wilson arrived resplendent in the blue
and scarlet of a Privy Councillor, and wearing
amongst his decorations the blue insignia of the
Grand Cross of the Star of India. The Mayor
introduced his aldermen and their wives, and Mr.
Moore introduced the late Attorney-General, Neil
Macgroarty, with whom his Ex. shook hands, saying-
“ You look as though you could stand defeats as
well as victories.”
Some thousand people collected outside Parliament
House, where the oath was administered in the obi
Legislative Council chambers. The Chief Justice and
members of the Moore Cabinet were present and
Justice Macrossan did the swearing-in. Mrs. Greene
had filled Government House with beautiful roses
and poinsettia and a log fire added a cheerful note.
Lady Wilson wore Scotch tweed, with a blouse of
mastic, and brown hat; Marjorie Wilson was in
blue; the Blair lady and Mrs. Moore were both in
black; the Mayoress in brown.
At Victoria Downs, the R. P. Lords’ home near
Morven, Donald Cameron married Marjorie Lord.
The bride, who was given away by her father, was
in flesh-pink angel’s skin and veil of pink bridal net,
with a shower bouquet of pink i-oses. Beryl Lord,
the bride’s twin sister, and Nina Cameron 'maided,
one in pow-der blue ■ with a coronet of blue roses,
the other in buttercup. New Guinea sees the
honeymoon.
At St. Francis Xavier Church, Warra, William C.
L. Kerr and Margaret Josephine Hunt entered on
life partnership. The bride w-as in ivory satin, with
a veil of ’broidered tulle. May Hunt ’maided in
biscuit crepe de Chine.
At the City Tabernacle, Ronald,H. Overell married
Elwyn Isabel Price. The bride was in Lido-blur
georgette, with Lido-blue hat. Gwynneth Price
’maided in dove grey and blue. Artist Tan Gall
best-manned.
Beres Corrie had a “good wishes to the bride-
elect” party at Caldew, Bowen-terraee. Each guest
had a stir at the wedding cake mixture, and then
passed through the Japanese wishing gate to the
garden, where she w-as allowed to wish for herself
as well as the bride-to-be. Mrs. Frank Corrie wore
black and amber; Beres, black and cream. Mes-
dames Harry Italy, Boddington, Kenneth Graham
and a host of girl friends were among- the guests.
There was some grim humor in the decoratioiv
for the Dental Ball in the Trocadero. Maroon and
gold was the decoration scheme; Dr. and Mrs. A.
Livingston received. The Auehenflow-er bowlers had
a party on the same night.
The annual Masonic dance was held in the
Memorial Hall, Cleveland, w-here the C.J. and his
lady received the eight debs. The Mayor and
Mayoress and Mrs. J, L. Wool cock were in tin-
party. The Blair lady was in black with touches
of rose and blue; the Mayoress wore black and
Mrs. Woolcock cream Chantilly.
The Brisbane Lyric Club held a musicale matinee
in its rooms, Adeltii de-street. Numbers were
rendered by Misses Mildred Bell, Meta McLean,
Laurie Buckliam, Elsie Sheppard, Messrs. Broadland-
Rooke and Forrest Pearson. Afternoon tea w-as
served at tables beautified with red and pink roses.


There comes a time
when you are too languid
to enjoy the daily routine
of work and play—your
appetite flags, the days
drag and your “joie de
vivre” is gone.
This is the time when dis-
ease germs make a success-
ful raid upon you. Radio-
Malt will protect your
body against these in-
vaders. It will give you
just that fillip to your
jaded appetite that you
need, it will build up your
reserves of resistance, and
bring back that joyous
outlook that comes from
radiant health.
RADIO-MALT
Ask your doctor about it.
w
If your cnemist nut'
not stock Radio-M ni
write to
THE BRITISH DRUG
HOUSES ( Australia)
LTD., 250 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
42,400
ŵ
copies printed to meet the
public demand.
The Perth
SUNDAY TIMES
—the largest paper in West-
ern Australia; the greatest
volume of news and adver-
tising—and now the great-
est increase of circulation.
Note the remarkable figures
below and realise the
splendid advertising coverage
awaiting the attention of
every keen business man.
GROSS
February 7
„ 21
March 6
„ 20
April 3
.. 17
May 1
~ 15
29
CIRCULATION.
28,820 copies
30,600
31.400
32,100
34.250
35,590
37.400
41.250
42.400
Quantity and Quality circulation
at remarkably low advertising rates.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Tbe opening of a new Parliament excites
no great interest nowadays. Still, there was
an influx of brand-new members on this
occasion, which accounted for many proud
womenfolk occupying the maroon velvet up-
holstered benches and “pews” on the floor
of the Council chamber, while the dethroned
ones looked down upon their successors
from the ladies’ gallery. The dressing was
just everydayisli, the function having lost
the social significance that calls for the
wearing of smart clothes and ceased to be
a source of revenue to costumiere or mil-
liner. The wind blew from off the snow-
clad Alps, and the sun was but spas-
modic; in the greyness the bright blue uni-
forms of the Royal Australian Air Force
guard made a spot of cheer. Within electric
light warmed up dark wood panel-
ling, crimson carpet and golcP and pastel-
tinted ceiling and pillars with their
cherubs and acanthus embellishment. Admin-
istrator Irvine was in his dress uniform
with plenty of gold embroidery and white-
feathered millinery; he was escorted by
mounted police on white or grey chargers,
and arrived on the minute with representa-
tives of Navy, Army and Air Force. The
calling-together of the gentlemen of the
Legislative Assembly, headed by the Speaker
and the Sergeant.-at-Arms, with the mace,
and the Governor’s speech were got over in
quick time, and Victoria’s ‘list Parliament
came into being.
There was no billy-boiling around the
marble statue of Victoria in Queen’s Hall,
but teacups rattled in the dining-room and
on the terrace at a few private chatter
parties. May Holman, Westralia’s lady
M.L.A., was among the throng. The Irvine
lady was there in black, with topcoat and
broadtail collar, topped by a black hat. The
Clarke lady, wife of the Legislative Council
President, introduced a bright note in her
ensemble suit of blue, and wore a beigo felt
hat that matched her fur collar. Premier
Stanley Argyle’s wife had pointed fox furs
with her black-tailored costume. Mrs.
Fred Thiel came with her daughter, Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside; Mrs. Jim Fairbairn,
whose husband is one of the new members,
was there, also Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, Gaud
Mayor Gengoult Smith, Archbishop Head
and Mrs. Head.
Here is Ella Bromley’s profile, as pictured
by Lafayette; she is a somewhat recent addi-
tion to the
Cairns Mem-
orial Players,
and has prov-
ed quite a
find. In the
performance of
Barrie’s
“Alice, Sit by
the Fire,” at
the Princess
Theatre this
month, she
was a most
attractive and
happily-placed
Amy, daughter
of the Alice
aforesaid. She
was a former
m e mber of
the Common-
wealth Bank
Dramatic Co.,
is a fair pian-
ist, plays golf and tennis well, and knows
a bit about bridge.
The rain held off on Saturday afternoon
for the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield, and
as long as one kept moving it was quite
pleasant. In the matter of dress most women
put their faitli in fur coats and the heaviest
of tailored suits. There was a general choice
of dark brown for upholstery with the same
tone of felt millinery. Mrs. Rupert Downes's
suit had a jumper of deep yellow and match-
ing flowers on the coat lapel. Mrs. Grice
wore a dark grey tweed coat with rose-
colored jumper and black hat. Mrs. J. S.
Feehan was in powder blue. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey was another votary of brown, her
hat haying a dash of relief in flame-colored
wing. Valerie Purves, who accompanied
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Purves,
was among the younger sot who successfully
sported apparel of the popular color. Mrs.
Arthur Whitelaw came with Mrs. Merson
Cooper; she gave a touch of expensiveness
to the committee ladies' box with her muff
of ermine and a deep collar of the same upon
her black costume, while a band of white
angora wool surrounded her black velvet, hat.
Mrs. Richard Linton and her sister, Mrs.
Murray Ileffernan, of Sydney, aired lovely
brown fur wraps that almost concealed their
frocks. Mrs. Iv. Prior, over from Sydney,
wore a flowered flat crepe frock beneath a
blending brown coat and felt hat. Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens was companioned by her
daughter Mrs. Harold Anderson ; the Rus-
sell Clarke couple came with their daughter
Marjorie, in navy blue; and Mrs. 11. S. K.
Ward was tweed-suited.
The opening night of the grand-opera sea-
son at the Princess Theatre introduced an
all-Australian cast in principals, chorus and
orchestra, a new departure which deserved
a better house than it received. Every
body had worked tremendously hard and the
result was a premiere of “La Traviata” that
left a memory of youth and brightness. With
Minnie Everett as producer, there are some
happy color schemes in groupings of the
chorus, and Paulyne Bindley scored a great
personal success as Violetta. Her evening
gown in the second act was as lovely a bit
of upholstery as one could wish to’ see, a
princess robe with lengthy train, deep ivory
brocade or satin traced over with an appli-
qued design of trails of leaves and flowers
gold and dull silver showered with some
sparkling sequins. Her first frock was of
white satin, somewhat panniered above a deep
flounce of white lace, with some pink roses
about the bodice. Quite an inspiration was
her apple-green georgette gown, with which
was carried an armful of red roses. The
ladies, of the chorus in the party scene of
Act I were arrayed in mauve, pink, blue,
green and yellow in figured taffeta, with lace
berthes and coiffures of 1820. A gorgeous
splash of color is introduced in Scene 2.
Act 11, with the entrance of gypsies and
matadors, mostly in scarlet with an inter-
lude of green.
Administrator Irvine and his lady had
seats in the centre of the d.-c.; Mrs. J.
Ilitchie was with them, also Mayor Wilkin-
son. From a box there looked out Gaud
Mayor Gengoult Smith and Town Clerk
McCall; opposite were knight Benjamin
Fuller and Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson.
There was a real flutter during the second
act when John Brownlee and bis wife (in
black with a gold lame coat) slipped into the
next-door box, and the audience gave the
singer a rousing reception. It was a nice
compliment on the baritone’s part to come and
see the “amateurs,” for outside of Pauline
Bindley it was a general grand-opera debut
all round. Certainly Vincent McMurray, who
was Alfredo, never gave a hint of its being his
first effort. Mrs. J. T. Tweddle and her two
daughters, the Arthur Whitelaw couple, Mrs.
Merson Cooper and Mrs. D. P. Mackey were
sighted in the r.-s., also Mr. and Mrs. E.
Allen Bindley, naturally proud of their
daughter’s success. The smooth-running show
ended with piles of horticulture for the prin-
cipals and Miss Everett, a speech by Norman
Campbell (who had been bidden to say
“thank you”) and a few words from a pleased
but very tired leading lady. The conductor,
Domenico Caffaro, established himself as a
favorite with his sweeping beat. “Rigoletto,”
with Gladys Verona, of the Harbor City, in
the leading r6le, will have a gala first night
on Saturday.
John Brownlee stole rather a march on
his friends in Melbourne by arriving un-
heralded by train from Adelaide, leaving wife
and small daughter to come on by the Mool-
tan next day. So all was in readiness fov her
arrival, including a family welcome. Gee-
long, the baritone’s home town, was to the
fore with a civic reception. Since the grand-
opera star was last here in 1928 he has
added many roles to his big repertoire, and
made further successes in Paris, London
and Buenos Ayres. There is a possibility
of his appearing here in opera; he begins
his concert tour of Australia in Geelong
to-night and his season in Melbourne on the
29tli. His good-looking Italian countess
wife is quite a good pianist. The little
daughter, Delphina Isabella Nellie, had
Madame Melba for a godmother.
The Athenceum Theatre has generously been
handed over for a good cause on the after-
noon of the 28th, when there will be a pro-
gramme of talkies for the benefit of St.
Anthony’s H'ome for Little Children. Some
leading' theatrical artists and local musi-
cians have offered their services for the
matinee, which is being arranged by a com-
mittee headed by Mrs. Merson Cooper (presi-
dent), Mrs. Charles Hicks, Mrs. Bernard
Noland and Marie de Bavay. At present
there are 100 children ranging from two to
ten in the home, and the cost of mainten-
ance is heavy.
If the craze for biking continues motorists
at the week-end and public holidays will
find the open road blocked by battalions of
pedestrians. A present feature of the high-
ways is hundreds of folk of both sexes,
usually costumed alike in trousers and
sweaters or silk shirts, hatless and with
staves in their hands and their food strapped
in knapsacks on their backs. A recent public
holiday saw three train-loads of hikers set-
ting out for an unknown destination, with a
ten-mile walk or thereabouts to the next port
of call. There were 2000 of them —youths
and maidens, with a sprinkling of middle-
aged. The lyre birds in Sherbrooke forest
must have added to their repertoire that
day.
In a bitter wind throngs of women loit-
ered outside Scots' Church on Thurs-
day afternoon to get glimpses of the wed-
ding finery at the knot-tying of Betty Mills
and John Blyth Bell. The bride is the
youngest daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Ainslie Mills, of Uardry, Hay; the ’groom
is the eldest son of the late Joseph Bell, of
Taggerty, Victoria, and of Mrs. Bell, of
Melbourne Mansions. The perfectly-cut
bridal robe of magnolia-tinted satin was
beautified by a white tulle veil that floated
from a high coronet of orange buds. The
attendant ’maids, Barbara Bayles and Milli-
cent Staugliton, aired gowns of scarlet
velvet; Russian coronets fashioned in flower
design of shells, red and green made attrac-
tive head-dresses. John and Catherine
Maslin, nephew and niece of the bride,
shielded her train, the boy picturesquely clad
in velvet trousers and white silk shirt, the
small girl in a Kate Greenaway frock. Miss
Winnie Mills, aunt of the bride, staged the
after-reception at her home, Uardry, Iley-
ington-place, Toorak, Mrs. M. Maslin and
Mrs. J. Bell lending their aid in receiving.
The bride struck a novel idea in carrying
a great sheaf of red roses, which blended in
with her bridesmaids’ velvet raiment. The
rose-red hue was rather prominent in the
general floral decorative scheme.
The first musical society in Melbourne to
welcome baritone John Brownlee and Ills
wife was the Association of Music Teachers
of Victoria, which put on coffee and cake at
the clubrooms on Wednesday night. The
president, Harold Elvins, and Madame
Ashton gave greeting to the couple. Mrs.
Brownlee wore a gown of wedgwood blue
and a silver lame coat. Of particular interest
to the special guests, who also included Rita
Miller, was an address by the blind pianist
and organist George Findlay upon the means
of teaching music to blind students through
Braille notation. He illustrated his talk with
some excellently played compositions of blind
musicians. Mr. Brownlee gave no glow-
ing account of the position of concert and
opera artists on the Continent.
When Mrs. Arthur Whitelaw returns
shortly to England she will take back with
her a jewel-casket of some beautifully-pol-
ished Australian wood, a gift from members
of the Women Citizens’ Movement Mrs.
Whitelaw on a former visit to Melbourne
prescnted the president, Mrs. Britomarte
James, with a cheque to help the then new
headquarters along, and she has supple-
mented this with another generous donation
to the funds. By the way, Mrs. James is
convalescing after some weeks in a private
hospital.
Here is Rita Miller, smiling her greeting
fo friends and her home town after over six
years’ absence.
Miss Miller,
who has re-
turned to Aus-
tralia to sup-
li or t John
Brownlee in
his concert
tour of the
Common-
wealth, is a
color atura
soprano who
lias made her
mark in
grand opera in
France. Be-
fore she went
abroad her
clear notes
were heard in
a couple of
minor roles
during the
Melba - Wil-
liamson grand-opera season of ’24. She
comes to us straight from the Municipal
Opera House. Toulon, where she had just
concluded a five months’ contract in leads.
One of her big successes was in Paris, where
she took the part of Gilda in. “Rigoletto.”
She is a pupil of Madame Dinh Gilly, of
Paris, who has had. a number of clever song-
birds from Australia under her wing. Local
theatregoers arc hoping that both Mr.
Brownlee and Miss Miller will make appear-
ances with the Williamson Imperial Grand
Opera Co. next month.
Tassy tunes in :
Campbell Town’s Show has become historic. John
Foster scored a double with his champion merinos,
the first time for 30 years that both championships
have gone to one exhibitor. Ring events were
interesting. In the women’s hunter class, Barbara
Bennett, Ashby, added to her many scores on her
own hunter Alert.
St. George’s, Battery Point, saw its first clerical
Wedding in 80 years when the Rev. H. G. S.
Begbie, son of Canon and Mrs. Begbie, of Chatswood
(N.S.W.), and Gwendoline Dean, daughter of the
A. C. Deans, of Devonport, were made one by the
Rev. C. A. Short. The bride’s frock was of ivory
silk marocain and she carried a sheaf of white
gladioli. Her sister Maisie and Ruth Short, the
bridegroom’s niece, ’maided in frocks of nattier blue
and apricot georgette.
The inter-’varsity teams which came across to
row on the Iluon were entertained by the locals at
dinner and a dance at the Imperial. The Lieut.-Gov.,
once a keen rowing man himself, did the speechifying
and young girl guests, in pretty frocks, crowded
the limited dancing space till late.
Musical circles are the poorer for the death of
A. H. Bowden, of Launceston. He was a composer
of a high order, a teacher of the violin, and a writer
of several essays on music.
The nine girls who, for the past three months,
have put in a lot of time and work over their
Popular Pastimes Contest were responsible for rais-
ing over £5OO. Barbara Baxter topped the score
with £l5O. The Old Hobartians’ Assoc, ran a ball
at the Continental to make a good setting for the
declaration of the poll, and Prof. Morris Miljer
thanked the girls on behalf of the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Institution.
Mrs. Eustace Cameron, Mona Vale, Ross, is off to
the Cold Country with her son. Mrs. E. J. Thorpe is
another voyager and will spend some time on the
Continent.
Beryl, youngest daughter of the C. P. Andrews
Ilornsey-avenue, Launceston, and Matthew Brodie,
Smithton, announce their engagement.
The Old Wilkinsonians’ ball in the Masonic Hall,
Launceston, was a gay affair. The decorations were
carried out in flame, deep yellow, lemon and bronze
tones, and the supper tables bore black bowls glow-
ing with Iceland poppies. David Armstrong’s
orchestra, made fascinating music.
Newnham Racing Club’s last meeting of the season
was held in lovely weather, but (lie attendance was
thin. Tweeds and furs were most popular among
the women.
Adelaide adds a line:—
At the Adelaide University Dance Club shivoo in
the refectory, Dr. Rex Matters (president) had to
receive alone, having just become the happy father
of a son. The decorations were carried out in mixed
blossoms and the frocking was uniformly smart.
Preparations are being made for the annual ball,
the wives of the professors taking all the respon-
sibility of the supper off the students’ hands. Mrs.
Arthur Rymill is teaching the debutantes how to
curtsey to his Ex. on June 29. There are 31 debs,
already in the field.
The Raws lady and her daughter Margaret arrived
from Melbourne this week and are staying at the
South Australian Hotel.
The Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) called a
meeting at the Town Hall to arrange a dance to
raise money for the Business Girls’ Club.
The second performance of “Iphigeiiia in Aulis”
was creditably given by the St. Peter’s College boys
in the Memorial Hall before an audience that in-
cluded Lady Hore-Ruthven and Chief Justice Murray.
Little Peter Hunter-Watts, a nephew of Allan Wilkie’s
leading lady, played Orestes. The producers were
Alan Harkness and F. K. Barton. Mrs. Mellis
Napier was again to the fore in the matter cf
costumes and the Greek ladies looked most effective.
There was a good attendance at the Mission to
Seamen gift, tea in the Liberal dub Hall. His Ex.
presided; Mrs. Shannasy played incidental music.
The chaplain, Rev. Norman Peel, gave an address,
and in response to his appeal several gifts were
promised. The guests were received by the new
president, Miss Lily Waite.
The English-Speaking Union hospitality committee
invited members to the Wentworth, where Dr.
Jauncey, of the Harvard University, gave an address
on “Relations of Great Britain and America.” The
guests were received by the president, Mr. G.
McEwin.
Over 300 were present at the Plaza, North-ten-ace,
when the Hackney Free Kindergarten committee
organised a dance to raise money for a building.
His Ex., with Lady Hore-Ruthven, was present;
the president, Mrs. W. F. O. Grote, and her
husband received the guests. Many smart frocks
were worn and it was quite a gala entertainment.
The way of Westralia:—
Ronnie Lake, whose earlier musical education was
imparted by the Loreto sisters, came home from
the Melbourne Cqnservatorium with a Mus. Bac. with
honors. Collaborating with elocutionist Hilda Jones
she displayed her talents at a recital in the Karra-
katta Club. With a brilliant technique and flawless
accuracy she memorised difficult works of half a
dozen composers. Hilda Jones, a pretty lass who
has been trained by Anita Fitz Gerald, spoke her
pieces with vivacious fluency. She wore black velvet
with a lace coatee, bunny-furred at the elbows. Miss
Lake carried her auburn head above the cowl neck of
her white satin gown. David Lyle’s pleasing tenor
assisted the young artistes, whose floral offerings
completely swamped the grand piano.
A tidal wave of parties enveloped Helen Murray,
who recently announced her engagement to Leith
Gillespie, of Melbourne. Mrs. Basil Murray and her
elder daughter, Mrs. Morrison, mixed cocktails at
the Palace; Neva Hocking staged her frisk at the
Esplanade; and Toby’s Kitchen had a turn from
Mrs. Jack Stodart and Joy Lathlain. Helen left
this week under mother’s chaperonage for Melbourne
and her w'edding.
Pamela Townley, of Mount Lawley, has given her
promise to Ronald, only son of the T. Y. A. Lang
couple, of Claremont.
To get into the spirit of the Aero Club Ball
dancers had to imagine themselves bound per mail
’plane for Adelaide. The stage had a hectic aero-
nautic background, the orchestra, in helmets and
overalls, made many zooming noises, and programmes
announced a landing for supper served in the garage
below. Mrs. Martyn, in berry-red georgettes and a
black coatee, and Mrs. Boas, in black chiffons,
were with husbands representing the army. Mrs.
C. P. Smith, in black dashed with white, assisted
her better half with some handshaking, and daughter
Betty scattered her smiles in love-in-the-mist velvets.
Mrs. Norman Brearlev trailed wood-nymph laces;
Mrs. Diminitt wore black satin; Gladys McDaniel
was sheathed in blue angel’s skin, and sister Joan
was caught in a whirl of leaf-brown laces; Mrs.
Eric Armstrong merited a second look in her ivory
satin gown, while sister-in-law Nancie glided over
the floor in a foam of sea-green chiffons; a shower
of pastel-tinted petals was blown upon Margaret
Giles’s pinky taffetas ; Bonnie Sanderson wore lilac ;
Sylvia Miles offset her auburn locks with honey-
tinted laces ; Dr. Winifred Windmill was in hibiscus-
pinks, and lettuce-green organdie with a little coatee
found favor with Sylvia George.
To celebrate her silver wedding day, Mrs. Bruce
Campbell invited her friends to a hand of bridge
and a sip of tea at the Esplanade. There was
music and gossip for non-players. The hostess wore
black tailorings with a citron-shaded blouse and
some little ermine tails in her hat. Daughter Maisie
chose a black and white rig with a bow at the
back of her millinery.


~r
cr
%
1
bJ
05/1
'tb? * .
MARIPOSA introduces CABIN CLASS
IN ADDITION TO FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATIONS
OfhoarJ these iB-()aij liners to Ofmertca
over the shortest route to £nqlan()
//
MARIPOSA & MONTEREY
Here is a revelation in cabin class travel! A new
standard in cabin class value and comfort.
You save days and you enjoy accommodations on
these ocean greyhounds that will surprise you with
their modern comforts. Individual beds and tele-
phones in all cabin staterooms as well as first class.
Furnished and decorated with inviting charm, large
enough for a foursome at bridge and re-ventilated
every three minutes to keep them fresh and cool.
Frolics in the outdoor swimming pool . . . dancing . . .
talking pictures . . . radio . . . broad decks for sports
. . . daily newspaper ... a sparkling flow of ship life
every moment of this memorable voyage.
You can reach England within 28 days, unless Amer-
ica holds you longer to see the panorama of scenic
marvels and glittering cities that spans the continent
from the Pacific to the Atlantic.
Surprisingly moderate rates from £5O/10/- from
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO or LOS ANGELES,
from £52/10/- MELBOURNE to SAN FRAN-
CISCO or LOS ANGELES. Cabin Class.
The "Mariposa" made her first departure from Sydney
June 4, from Melbourne June I; the "Monterey" sails
from Sydney July 2, from Melbourne June 28. Through
transportation to any point in America or England.
ourne
will be a regular port of call of the NEW Oceanic super-liners
"MARIPOSA" and "MONTEREY"
This NEW express service com-
menced with the first regular
voyage of the "Mariposa.
//1
//
Through passengers will now
have the convenience of di-
rect-sailings from Melbourne.
Let us give you full particulars
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET - SYDNEY
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 COLLINS ST. and 461 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. Phone: Central 288 {5 lines]
M4-9A2
A JoKe at Geiger’s.
A VIVID LITTLE STORY BY GWENLLAN STUART.
WIIAT a piece of work is man!’ ”
declaimed Todd. “ ‘How noble in
reason ! how—how’ ” He held
his hand to his heart for a melancholy
moment, then turned to observe the effect on
the fair-haired girl who had come to visit
her sister in No. 24. “That’s how it goes,”
he told her. “Do you know, for fifteen
years I acted in Shakspearean drama. I
toured the provinces with the great Irving
himself. We”
“Hear Gran up there on her rocking-
chair?” Mrs. Todd observed conversationally
to the thin, anaemic-looking girl from No.
24. “Was you about when she came homo
with it?”
Todd threw her a glance of furious loath-
iug. God, that he should have come to this!
He, Richard Todd, who had toured the pro-
vinces with Sir Henry! Who had in his
possession a Shakspeare the front page of
which was inscribed in the Masters own
handwriting: “To Richard Todd, with my
compliments,” and signed, actually signed!
“Really,” Todd said, "I scarcely think the
young ladies can be interested”
Mrs. Geiger’s rooming-house was on the
south side of the fiver, in such an abomin-
able neighborhood that she was glad to let
the rooms furnished for eight shillings a
week and no questions asked. Todd was
not married to Mrs. Todd. She. was fat
and comfortable and he had his lonely
moments when her motherly presence warmed
him. The anmmic-lOoking girl in No. 24
was not married to her man either. He had
confided to the motherly Mrs. Todd that he
had a wife and three children, and the wife
had got a maintenance order against him
now, so what he was going to do he was
. i „ ~ . . , . .
Of all the awful hovels, the fair-haired
girl had moaned to her sister after what
you ve been used to ! If only you d come
home, Lyd, mother d take you back. The
boys don’t know and dad stiU thinhs you re
in Melbourne with Auntie Kate. Turn him
,n ’ Ly i' I ? e / sn I t . wor X h all this you re
going through for him. Come home, there s
a kid. . . ,
The on!y roomer m the house who was
icspectable was old Gran She had hei
wedding-group on the wall and her grand-
daughter was respectably in service with a
“* e S an ren W t aS ve^l a rW aSe She nS newr
bothered d anvone but TSdd loathed** her He
not tooTwhy ‘ he fust did He told
Mrs. Todd it was the artistic temperament
made him like that. Sir Henry had been
much the same, with his unaccountable likes
•md dislikes
“She came home with the carrier,” Mrs.
Todd told them. “Gee, she’s a smash. She
was that excited when she came in. ‘l’ve
bought a chair,’ she tells me. ‘lt’s a rocking-
chair. I bought it for seven and six, and
the carrier brought me home in the cart with
it. Saved me fare for me, he did,’ she says.
She’s a funny old thing. You seen her,
didn’t you, Mr. Harris?”
Mr. Harris, huge, bull-necked and frog-
faced, was reclining on the sofa, unable to
remove his bleary eyes from No. 24’s sister,
“She got you to carry it up to her room
for her, didn’t she, Mr. Harris? I had to
laugh at her, trotting along behind you, the
t'unny old thing she is. She wanted to be
touching it all the time, not happy unless she
had her old paws on it. ‘Nice chair, isn’t
it?’ she keeps saying to me; ‘l’ve always
wanted a chair I could rock in.’ There
she'is now. Hear her? She’s never stopped
since tea-time.”
“Hideous old hag!” said Todd. “She
reminds me of one of the witches in ‘Mac-
beth.’ You know ‘Macbeth.’ Miss ?”
The anaemic girl had not favored them with
an introduction to her sister when the heat
of the setting sun on her narrow little back
room had driven them down to the com-
munity sitting-room.
“She kept patting it all the time,” Mrs.
Todd said. “I peeped in on my way down-
stairs, and I thought I’d have split my sides,
There was old Gran, kneeling beside the
damn chair, stroking it as if it liad’ve been
a kitten or something.”
“I have in my possession,” Todd was tell-
ing the girl, “a volume that was presented
to me by the great Sir Henry himself. The
circumstances in which the presentation took
place reflect, if I may be permitted to say
so. no little credit”
“The o’d girl must have gone to sleep,"
observed the lethargic Mr. Harris. “Sun’s
down. I must be getting on.”
There was a deep and crafty cunning
underlying this remark. When the fair-
haired girl visited her sister she never stayed
much after dark. Once she realised the
time she would jump up and hurry away.
Mr. Harris intended to discover urgent
reasons for his own immediate departure the
moment the fair-haired girl left the room.
I xx <is quite a step down to the tramline,
and badly lit.
Iran s not asleep, said Mrs. I odd. >. he s
C °q”i. l l S Jm f
i ! £ amc ‘ nt0 T t ie ro , ani - .
Ive got to go out. I wont be more n
nn ° r * WO ’ v,T OU rn W a°a -n aiiy ? n « f
ip to my room, Mrs. Todd, will you. The
™ t w tu ort S it o ti„r„n oo s,/ nd C h a l i r do, i , t
mightn’t be too strong like” 5 1
bl he glanced sWiciou Sl y‘at Harris’s huge
f oSeiS‘^ s =a < iS"’' —
“It’s a real nice chair, isn’t it? I must
tell my Minnie about it so as she can get
it if anything happens to me. Old Geiger’d
he mean enough to say it belonged to the
room Sli6 p&sscd out
“The old imbecile!” Todd said “Old age
is most repulsive, don’t you consider, Miss
?” ’ ’
The girl murmured something polite and
vague.
“Wouldn’t it be a good joke to hide old
Gran’s chair while she’s away?” Todd cried,
with sudden animation. “Can’t you picture
her face when she walks in and finds it
gone?”
Shakspeare was evidently above the
wench’s head. Most deplorabie and a scatli-
ing indictment of the State's educational
system! Still, if he could not impress her
as a man obviously out of keeping with his
surroundings, he might perhaps raise a laugh
from her at the old hag’s expense. He had
a fancy to hear her laugh. .
Mrs. Todd, who had no imagination,
giggled and said it would be a lark.
Todd eyed her with scarcely veiled dis-
gust. She was “expecting” any day, and though
he could quote passages from the Immortal
Bard to justify his own role, he had his
moments of disgusted self-loathing. Besides,
there was the question of expense to worry
him. .
“I must be going, Lyd,” the fair-haired
girl said to her sister. “I daren’t be late
home, you know.”
Harris’s great frame quivered in antici-
pation of approaching movement. He hastily .
formulated his casual statement of the
urgent reasons for his own departure If
the skinny piece smelt a rat she would go
after the girl.
Todd’s face fell. “Oh, don't go yet, he
pleaded. “Wait a minute. I'm going to
go up and shift the old girl’s chair. Wait
till she comes back, and see the fun.”
“Oh, no, I’ve got to go; I’m sorry, I can’t
possibly wait. Come down as _ far as the
tram with me, Lyd. We haven’t had much
chance to talk.”
A species of convulsion passed over
Harris’s frog-like face. He scowled blackly,
then resigned himself to the inevitable.
The sisters passed out. Todd kicked the
leg of his chair violently, and glared at the
woman opposite him. God, to think of him,
Richard Todd, who had in his possession a
Shakspeare inscribed by the great Sir Henry
himself!
:jc * * *
“They’ve taken my chair! My chair's
gone! Of course it’s a joke. I know it’s
a joke.”
Gran went from room to room. She held
her hands tightly clenched in front of her
to still their trembling. “I know it’s a
joke. I suppose they thought”- She
grinned at them painfully. “Did you see
my chair, Mrs. Grady? I left it right
here”
“Aw, shut up, you silly old fool,” said
Mrs. Grady. “We’ve had more to worry
about than your chair. They just took Mrs.
Todd off. Todd had to get a Yellow and go
along with her.”
Grady, shirt-sleeved and tipsy, called an
obscene jest from the cavernous depths of the
room that sheltered himself and his missus
and three small children.
Gran was going dazedly from room to
room. Her legs felt shaky. Her stomach
had a queer, empty feeling as if she had not
eaten for a week. That terrible, devastating
sense of desolateness that comes of the loss
of a beloved object was hers.
“I know it’s only a joke. No one would
take it for keeps,” she kept reassuring her-
self, and bumped thankfully into her land-
lady.
“Mrs. Geiger, did you see my chair? You
know, my rocking-chair? I bought it at
the sale down in Barter-street, and the car-
rier gave me a lift home in the cart with
it to save my fare.”
“Rocking-chair?” said Mrs. Geiger. “That
wasn’t your rocking-chair, was it?”
Gran clutched at her with a shaking, yel-
low claw.
“Rocking-chair.” she stammered helpfully.
“It had a cane bottom. I knew it was only
a joke.”
“There was a rocking-chair in Todd’s
room,” Mrs. Geiger said. “I went in to
give a hand with getting Mrs. Todd away,
and noticed it there, out of the corner of my
eye ; and I thought to myself, well, they’re
hot ones, they are, three weeks behind with
their rent and, not satisfied with the furni-
ture I provide them with, they got
to go buying themselves rocking-chairs.
I thought to myself, it’s that Todd.
He’s got notions, that one has. ’Cause lie’s
a chum and a broken-down swell, he thinks
he’s plum-cake. Here, a rocking-chair for
the missus, I thought—and of course we all
know how much his missus she is—a rocking-
chair for her to rock the precious little heir
to sleep on!”
“In Mr. Todd’s room!” Gran said. “Oh.
they must have taken it for a joke. I’ll
just go along and get it. I knew it was
only a joke. Did they lock their room, Mrs.
Geiger
“Hey, hold on a minute, Gran. Now,
’tain’t no use you kicking up a fuss. I never
thought about it not being their chair. It
never dawned on me for one mo’ but that
Todd bought it to show off like. Aud it
made me that mad. him being three weeks
behind and everything.”
“He only took it for a joke,” Gran fal-
tered, panic growing on her face. “I'll just
go along and”
“I got Joe to carry it down to Sam
Isaacs’s for me,” Mrs. Geiger said. “He
gave me five bob for it. I didn’t see what
right they had to buy rocking-chairs just
to show off like when they was three weeks
behind. And it’s no use you kicking up a
fuss, Gran. How was I to know it was
yours? How do I know it now, for that
matter? How do I know you’re not trying
to put one over me. saying it’s yours, ’cause
you know Todd’s well out of the way? I
was in my rights. I found it in their room
and them three weeks Here, take your
old claws off of me. You’re hurting my
arm, and it’s no use you kicking up a fuss.
I ain’t going to give you the five bob, but
here’s the ticket. You can fight it out with
Todd when he comes home. Get the five boh
off of him, and I wish you luck. Now get
out of my way. I got no more time to
waste.”
Gran let her go. She bustled self-
rigliteously down the passage.
Left to herself,Gran leant wearily against
the wall. Her legs were trembling so, and
she felt that sick in the stomach. Her
chair! Wherever would she get five bob
from? It had taken her that long to save
the seven and six, and now the pension was
reduced. She’d always wanted a rocking-
chair. It was a real nice chair, too, and
now old Sam had it. Todd wouldn’t give
her any money. Todd never had any money.
Suddenly she stiffened, grew cunning. She
tiptoed down the passage to Todd’s room.
The lock was not turned. No one ever
locked lip at Geiger’s, because no one ever
had anything worth stealing.
Gran ransacked the room. There was
nothing in it xvorth one bob, let alone five.
She turned the duchess drawers out; tattered
shirts, old rags, a couple of books. One
of the books had a leather cover and pictures
inside it. Gran eyed it eagerly. There
was writing on the front page. Old Sam
might not take it if he saw that. Fortu-
nately she was able to remove the page with-
out leaving any sign of its having been
torn out. She destroyed it carefully and tip-
toed out.
She had one shilling left over from her
money. True, it was all she had to live
on till pension day. but maybe Minnie would
send over a pie. She did sometimes. Surely
she could get four bob out of old Sam for
die books—three of them there wore, and
one in a leather cover with pictures inside it.
* * * *.
.... ... . i,, , .. ’. ,
The girl from No. 24 was entertaining her
sister in the community sitting-room.
“If only you’d come home, Lyd,” the sister
pleaded. “You can’t keep this up. You
weren’t made for this kind of life.”
“Oh, xvhat’s the use of going into all that
again? I won’t come home without him. 1
knoxv there’s no chance of that, but, well,
there you are. How are they all? It sebms
such ages since I’ve seen you.”
There was a minute’s silence, interrupted
only by a dull, rhythmical thud, thud on the
floor above.
“Hear old Gran on her chair?” the girl
from No. 24 said, glad to change the. subject,
“She only came out of the hospital last
week, and she’s just about lived on that
chair ever since. She’s got a lock on her
door now, and she keeps it locked all the
time and sits in there, rocking away. They
gave that looney chap three years for fenock-
ing her about, you know.”
What looney chap?” ~
Oh, Gn't broken-down swell; I forget ins
name. He knocked her about something
awful. My room s just over the top of them
and I heard it; all. He kept saying, Ihe
j ;, st link gone, the last link gone. I con d
hear him calling that out m my dreams for
nights after it happened. They had to get
th( , police iu and he arrest and swore
aud curse d. It upset me terribly. The
woman he was living with is still here. She’s
with a fellow called Harris that had the
room opposite theirs. Do you remember him
-—an ugly-looking chap with a face like a
frog?”


Ask for
warn
Wz'-M
1%,
if
Av**m
Z 5
vL*\sa:
Scots (Ch
•%JSBBfta
mrs
nrca
ESTABLISHED 1807 t
this tine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years’ reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
scars whisky
Q.S.JLM Q CALtUM US EDINBUR. GH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF Me CALL U IVI i
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, 0P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES; Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6} 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months. 30/.: «
r
«**«
(V.
ir
=6
s 6
s 6
0°
e
1 ’
,o’
,<> *■
■ '
\> AS 0*


ẁ
C'-\v
\'wC^
vcJJiiyitiD (iltalCN
CtS
m
sfeff
tom
<W-J>
N U
Milfoil
/ /
/ C
Mil®
i
1 /
mlflMf
MW
umrnn
The Greatest
Mileajeßattery
tl\dc ■■■■■■ a ■ ■ IS
Willard is the battery you can put in
your car with the assurance of dependable
mileage. Measured m terms of miles,
Willards will give you more for your money
—the lowest cost per mile.
Care in the selection of materials and
manufacturing skill accumulated over 29
years of battery - making, combine to give
Willard Batteries a dependable sturdiness
not surpassed anywhere. Whatever type
and size of Willard fits your car, Willard
Service Men will help you select it. You
can be sure that its rugged construction
will stand up under the hardest usage and
give you the most dependable service.
ẃ
saiaaxxva
3DVHOXS
Motor Supplies, limited,
Brisl
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Adkins (W.A.)«
Perth
