

X T J
r* &
A
m
v.
j«e! we’ve been discussing whiskies.....and
K7£;4k-'
n i
t.
r
we’ve come to an agreement in
AND
Guaranteed Pure Scotch Whisky, and Bottled
only in Bond under Customs Supervision*
Fine
Scotch Hfef
black
AMO
WHITE
a buichanahl
ciAscow^
lqnoom
By AppoinVme.v&
fts/t//ers to H' M - We
aHRH H* PRINCE
I
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
scotch whisk*
“BIACK& WHITP: ;•
»« o'lds;ctc^
5< " 07 Ch WHIS KV D'S TltL
Oi.AsoowiLOND0 N
Rs sitnuvff distillers muiben- 5 q#
i pin t
' 5
COMMQNWt Aj_TM CUS
Lil
kss
The Bulletin
IVhaA jfhuM doio Ce Samxi ? P 8
Vol. 53. —No. 2749.
Wednesday, October 19, 1932*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street. Sydney.
'* *
iffiwJo'Wfe
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
v SEND TfilS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, uour New Fret.
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor PmSt 66
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’ Pro fi** «■*
My Name ..
M>' Address
S.B. 132 ~
J-'YSAGHT'
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
A GREAT STORY.
OLD BLASTUS OF
BANDICOOT
By MILES FRANKLIN,
Author of “My Brilliant Career.”
“REAL HUMAN INTEREST.”
OLD BLASTUS The SYDNEY “BULLETIN” says:
OLD BLASTUS “More than a fine n0ve1.... The
OLD BLASTUS reader’s attention is caught at once
OLD BLASTUS by the freshness of the style and
OLD BLASTUS the naturalism and the ’ humor
QLD BLASTUS of the dialogue, and it never wanders.
OLD BLASTUS ....There are some splendid descrip-
OLD BLASTUS tive passages.... Nothing so good
OLD BLASTUS has been done in any previous novel
OLD BLASTUS about the Australian bush.”
Other Popular Lothian Novels
THE TEMPLF OF SAHR,
William Pengreep
THE CRIMSON FALCON, Nita Thompson
VISION Anne Praize
VANISHING HORSEMEN . . A. E. Yarra
At all Good Booksellers, 7/6 (postage 5d.)
THE LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.,
No. I Fleming Place, Melbourne.
h
h
iivisiaa
mm
!hm
-in
5C=
<;* :
hjj:
HEALING
OINTMENT
Should be kept in every house-
hold for the daily use of all the
family; the to protect
the skin as well as cleanse it,
the Ointment to relieve and
heal chafings, rashes, irritations
and cuts.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Sample each
free. Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick la. 6d.
MEMBER
U!DIW
B
uirica'U m
ißCtHAiril©«»
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
1 ban Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This gieat newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to lead. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully coyer the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Bates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON,
<2 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 81522.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service "The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
‘‘THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 15,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
mm
V
:
wm
■
m,.
5 .. .
1
ss 8
7
.
;
mmiM
LEADS THE WAY
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated martlet for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for express
sion in print.
Ts that so with
you ?”
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Spiritual Mind
It may be a religious mind, but it often
isnt. The owner is often moral, but is
sometimes the reverse. There was little
spirituality in such old-time prelates as
Wolsey, Mazarin and Richelieu, and there
,s j ■l 1 ? in modern ones such as Dean Inge
and Bishop Barnes. Dean Inge wrote some
time ago with sombre relish: “Science has
been the slowly-advancing Nemesis which
has overthrown a barbarised and paganisec
Christianity”; and Bishop Barnes in his
sermons on the Creation which so scandal-
ised Anglicans in 1927 was equally challeng-
ing. On the other hand, many great scien-
tists who have professed no institutional
religion (Darwin, for example) were essen-
tially spiritual-minded; and so are Einstein
who wrote reverently the other day of "‘the
nobility and marvellous order which are
revealed in Nature”; and Julian Huxley,
who said We must believe; scepticism
does not work”; and hundreds more of
their type. The characteristic which these
irreligious saints have in common is a
sacred fire which bums in devotion to their
fellow-creatures. They are without personal
hatreds or bigotries; are nearer to being con-
sistent Christians than most church-goers;
true mystics who seek a catharsis of their
restless souls by working for the good of
others. The three men discussed below are
curiously alike in spirit; yet one was the
founder of Quakerism, another was a
German monk and the third is an ex-
Jesuit.
A Revivalist
Mrs. Holdsworth’s The Romance of the
Inward Light (Dent; 7s. 6d.) is a biography
©f George Fox, eked out with more or less
apocryphal legends about the Friends. Fox
is phenomenal as the originator of a sect
which is completely Christian in at least one
direction; its practising members refuse to
be associated with national or politica
hatreds, or with wars except in a non-com-
batant capacity. Fox suffered appalling
hardships and injustices, and spent years
in gaol. Stiff as a tree, we could never
bow him, wrote one of his gaolers, yel
there is no record that he complained
threatened or denounced in respect of any-
thing that was done to himself. His only
concern was for others. He said on his
death-bed: “I felt the misery of my fellow-
creatures, and it was heavier than I could
bear, and I was crushed down under it.”
Unlike most, mystics, he seems to have been
almost entirely free from the lusts of the
flesh. He was without a sense of personal
sm; what the Freudians call a “once-born
soul. It must have helped him greatly
m his work. He never felt called on, after
the manner of so many early Christians,
to waste precious time expiating his lapses
in caves and on tops of pillars. Instead,
boldly, energetically, everywhere,
and was equally at home among the rich
and poor, in England and in the wilds of
America. Charitable works apart, his life
was one long quest after reality; it is his
r logicality that makes him one with
the scientists. He has brought ease of mind
to millions. Mrs. Rutherford quotes from
a letter written to her by a Methodist whom
she convinced of the unlawfulness of war:
‘ It is so wonderful to be able to read the
How Testament now, not to have to explain
it away.” But there are few religious-
minded people so clear-headed and consis-
tent as George Fox was, so the Society of
Friends remains a sect which’ all admire
but few belong to.
A Doctor
In Absolution (Bles; 10s'. 6d.) Dr. E.
Boyd Barrett identifies' the work of a priest
in the confessional with that of a psycho-
analyst. He was a Jesuit priest ; then for
reasons which he doesn’t state, he left the
order and became a psycho-analyst in New
York. He has no animus against his former
Church; on the contrary
The Catholic Church deserves unending
praise for carrying the slogan “Pardon and
forgiveness for sinners” down through the
centuries, and for bravely and persistently
maintaining that there is such a thing as
absolution, and that it should be available
all. The Church has saved innumer-
able hearts from despair during all those
centuries by the work done in the confes-
sional, spid for this she merits the admiration
of every thoughtful man.
He gives an extraordinarily interesting
account of how confessors are trained, and
has only one objection to the system—that
it is out of date. The textbooks of moral
theology contain the greatest accumulation
of knowledge on
the subject of
human behavior in
existence. Every
imaginable sin has
been catalogued
and commented
upon. But "the Church is not interested in
genetic origins, or in therapeutics or in the
color of psychology, but only in the occur-
rence or non-occurrence of certain objective
acts.” The priest doesn’t want to hear about
those subjective sins which may give the
penitent a poignant sense of guilt; he merely
wants those which constitute' violations of
the Church’s laws, and their number and
species. Dr. Barrett can only satisfy the
needs of his nature by acting as a confessor,
and he thinks he is being more helpful
as a layman than he was as a priest. Cynics
may point out that selflessness ,is the
essence of spiritual service and that a
psycho-analyst has a good deal jtnore free-
dom and enjoyment generally than a Jesuit
priest . The answer is that, like all mystics,
Dr. Barrett has to be examined first for sin-
cerity; and that—-right or wrong—he is
sincere no one who reads his book will
den3^.
A Scientist
rh°se masterly translators Eden and
Cedar Paul have done Hugo Iltis’s Life
of Mendel' (Allen Unwin; 12s. 6d.) into
idiomatic English. There are over 300 pages,
and an index of 18 pages. Much of the
book is, of course, concerned with Mendel’s
experiments in plant hybridisation, and with
ins activities as a bee-keeper and meteor-
ologist. These sections will appeal almost
exclusively to scientists, but there is plenty
interest general readers. Mendel prob-
ably had the kind of brain that develops
late; anjdiow, he failed in examinations
even after becoming a priest. He had no
wish for fame, and it was not till 20 years
after his death that the inmates of his
monastery learned from outside of his emi-
nence. He must have known in his life-
time that he was a great man a s the world
understands the term, but it didn’t inter-
est him He was not outstandingly religious
though he died a mitred Abbot. Society
had no attractions for him, and he shunned
all women with the exception of the few
who belonged to his family. Officially the
Catholic Church takes no cognisance of
animals; they are without souls; yet some
of the most famous animdl-lovers, from St.
r laneis of Assissi downwards, have been
priests. Mendel loved animals. Cruelty
to them, and particularly to birds, was the
only sin that really stirred him to rage.
I} 11 , w *?° hav , e . written anecdotes
about Mendel refer to his love for animals.
aHormsch, who was not only one of
Mendel s pupils at Briinn Modern School but
also saw him often at the monastery, tells
us that Mendel had two rooms. In one he
kept a number of birds; and there was also
a cajje containing mice which, much to the
lad s surprise, were ordinary grey mice.
However, it was not to animals or religion
or to his duties as an administrator, that he
looked for the catharsis of his soul, but to
teaching. He was a tireless worker and a
genius and all he asked of life was to be
allowed to pass oij his immense store of
knowledge to others for the ultimate good
of humanity All sa id and done, it is per-
mmcU hlghest ex P ression of the spiritual
RED PAGE.
The Frustrated Writer
An enormous number of -books on th
relationship of the writer to modem lif
‘s poi > nng /jom the presses nowadays. Ii
ij f t^ clen^l fi c Outlook (George Allen - 8 s ;
6d.) Bertrand Russell says: “It is the fashim
among intellectuals to regard our age a
one of weariness and discouragement: to
them, no doubt, it is so, since they have les.
influence oh affairs than they formerly had
and their outlook is more or less inappro-
priate to modern life.” This is a scientific
age and, in Pavlov, the great Russian scien-
tist, Russell paints a picture of the happy
man, m tune with his environment. Pavlov
is now an old man. For half a century he
has been conducting researches into' the
reactions of dogs when food is put into theii
mouths. It sounds a ridiculous pursuit but
out of it has come the theofy of conditioned
reflexes which is already changing the philo-
sophic attitude towards the mind, the soul
and psychology, and may lead to funda-
mental changes in human institutions.
Asa human being, Pavlov has the sim-
plicity and regularity of men of an earlier
time, such as Immanuel Kant. He has lived
a quiet home life, and has invariably been
punctual at his laboratory. Once, during
j he Revolution, his assistant was 10 minutes
late, and adduced the Revolution as an
excuse but Pavlov replied: ‘What differ-
ence does a Revolution make when vou
have work in the laboratory to do?’ The
only allusion to the troubles of Russia to
{Red Page continued on page d.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The Foundation of Confidence
"THE SENIOR STORE'
Anthony Horderns'
4k
IP
n
I
7
\
X
fee
*
r
X
TROUT SEASON OPENS
IN N.S.W. NOVEMBER 1
F rench
CREELS
Carry all your fishing requis-
ites in one of these French
Creels. Two sizes. Fitted
with straps to adjust to
shoulders.
Sizes, ins. . . 14 i I 7
Prices .... 22/6 32/6
Fly Cases
Aluminium Fly Cases. Price
10/6. Aluminium Cast Box.
Price 3/-. Leather Fly and
Cast Book, 5 x 3in. Price
11/6. Aluminium Fly Case,
with compartments, 5 x 3-Jin.,
16/-; 3| x 2£in. Price,
each • • 10/6
I i 1
j ?
i a i
a
GET YOUR NEW TACKLE
Aeroplane Spinners. Trout size.
Price, each 27-
Perch size. Price, each 37-
Cod size. Prices, each, 3/6 and 4/-
Rods for Trout
South Bend
FLY ROD,
97/6
South Bend Fly Rod. 9ft., 3 joints,
cork grip, beautifully finished rod,
with extra top.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 97/6
Perch Fishing
English
SPLIT CANE,
55|-
English Split Cane Rod. 9ft., 3
joints, cork grip, suction ferrules.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 55/-
\ lain.'' LMni'iini^inn^— 1
.■..■...■.pTTi.— |... V „ f
On ■.III ■ I ' ii II II |B
Alcock’s Imperial Split Cane Rod. lift., 3
joints, lock ferrules, cork grip, extra top,
closely whipped, superior finish.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . £l2/12/-
Gunmetal Check Reels, with
revolving handle plate, trout or
perch reel; Price, 13/6.
3in. Price 17/6
3Jin. Price 24/-
Aluminium Trout Reels,
bronzed, 3in. Price . . 32/6
3|in. Price, each .... 42/6
“Atlas” Reel
“Atlas” Double Multiplying
Brass Nickel Reel, with
optional check.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 8/6
RELIABLE LINES
quality silk, in medium
dark pattern. Sizes H 7/->
G 8/6, F 9/6; in 25yd.
coils connected.
Blue Ribbon
The Blue Ribbon Bait-cast-
ing Line. High quality
selected silk, specially pre-
pared for this particular
line.
Sizes • • ■ • 4 5
Dry Test, lb., 15 20
Per 50 yards
Prices .... 12/3 14/-
uMe
fed
w
m
%
“Kingfisher”
Kingfisher Double Tapered Trout
Lines. Made of pure silk, carefully
plaited, waterproof, with a per-
manent line dressing improving with
use.
Nos., per 30 yds. 1 2 3
Prices 25/6 28/6 32/6
( Department-
-Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
w
A:
ft
WELCOME SHADE
from the Scorching Sun of the Harvest Fields
25 ONLY Harvester
SUNSHADES
326
Harvester Sunshades. .. .a boon to the man out West. There are only 25 of these American-
made sunshades, which are easily attached to the header. Made of best quality Tan
solid wire ribs, stout Hickory Pole with iron fittings. Anthony Horderns Price, each,
THESE CANNOT BE REPEATED AT THIS PRICE WHEN SOLD
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
( Department—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401. Box 2712C ’ GPO *


X
\z
'•v
A Strong
Public Preference
The millions of storage batteries made and sold by Willard
testify to the marked public preference for this battery ... a
preference that grows stronger each year as more and
more car owners choose Willards. Willard have amply
justified this public preference to the satisfaction of owners,
as well as car manufacturers.
Experienced Willard Battery Men are ready to help you
choose the right battery for your car and then help you
safeguard the dependability and long life built in at the
Willard Factory.
Choose a Willard... for dependability as well as
for long life.
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Limited,
Perth.


• • •
. '1
O
fc>
•••.
pissr : s
P»s^p
dkj
L_
4
M
il
Will you ENJOY the "Cup” this Year?
IN every race there is always one outstanding performer.
Just so with radio. There is one receiver which wins easily
from all others.
Golden Voiced Radio is a leader in its class both in popu-
larity and outstanding performance.
If you demand only the best, Healing Golden Voiced Radio
alone will satisfy you.
Here is an instrument that will reproduce faithfully every incident
and every thrill of the classic event.
’Phone your
local dealer for
a home demon-
stration.
h
An instrument
you will be
PROUD to
OWN.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
' SYDNEY:
161-170 Goulbum Street.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin Street, C.l.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Streets.
be found in his writings is in connection
with the difficulty of feeding his animals
during the years of food-shortage. He thinks
ill of the Soviet Government, and denounces
it vehemently both publicly and privately.
In spite of this, the Government has treated
him with every consideration, and has sup-
plied his laboratory Avith everything that
he needed”’
It is a picture as much of the objective
artist, as of the scientist.' It was in the
same mood that Rembrandt must have gone
about his painting in equally troublous
times; it is the mood of a Chekhov, writing
his immortal stories under the shadow of the
despotism of the Czars. But the modern
writer or artist or intellectual is not objec-
tive. He aches to be the child, not the
student of his times. In all his novels D. H.
Lawrence" showed this instinctive urge to
float his troublesome ego down some world-
stream of tendency. The difficulty was to
find the appropriate stream. In “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover” he Avas both Lady Chat-
terley and her gamekeeper, diverse crea-
tures but one in their sense of being out
of harmony Avith their age.
“I’m frightened, really. I feel the Devil
in the air, and he’ll try to get us. Or not
the DeAdl, Mammon; which I think, after
all, is only the mass-Avill of people, want-
ing money and hating life. There’s a
bad time coming, boys, there’s a bad
time coming. If things go on as they are,
there’s nothing big in the future but death
and destruction for these industrial masses.”
In John Middleton Murry’s The Neces-
sity of Communism (Cape; 65.) the hus-
band of the late Katherine Mansfield en-
dea\ r ors to give the intellectual a forward-
looking policy instead of the Back-to-the-
Horse movement Avhich is in essence Law-
rence’s solution. “One is, in the fullest sense
of the Avord,” says Murry, “converted to
Communism. It is a religion, precisely as
Roman Catholicism is a religion; it is the
religion of the future. Communism arose
out of Marx’s devoted and life-long study of
English conditions. London, not Moscow,
is the birthplace of Communism; England,
not Russia, its Galilee. England has the
chance to lead the world once more, but
only through Communism. And Com-
munism, if it is not to come through col-
lapse and undreamed-of misery, must be
prepared for by an intellectual and moral
revolution in a dedicated minority of indi-
vidual men.”
In order to achieve this end, the intellec-
tual must become disinterested. He must
deliberately “sacrifice his individualism and
identify himself with that element in the
body of the world through which the new
life must come.” He must even, appa-
rently, submerge his intelligence; for
Middleton Murry’s recipe for turning Eng-
land into a Communist State reads very
like the Lang plan. It provides for the
nationalisation of the banks, the granting
to eAmry man, woman and child of a
minimum wage, the balancing of bud-
gets by the taxation of incomes down to
a maximum of £IOOO a year. This pro-
gramme, Murry supposes, will automatically
bring in the Golden Age.
This scheme of Middleton Murry’s very
Avell illustrates the general bankruptcy of
mind of the contemporary Avriter, considered
as an artist. What his creed for the artist
boils down to is merely a particular party
policy. In other words, the writer must
cease to be an artist and become a propa-
gandist. The job of the artist is to dis-
cover the reality behind men’s schemes,
hopes and dreamings of Utopias. That is
the true artistic disinterestedness. It is
a far harder job than subscribing to any
political creed. All the worst art has been
produced by writers and painters Avho propa-
gandised for a creed.
The so-called proletarian art of Russia
is a case in point. Most of it is not ■ art
at all. The artist desires change, which is
AA’hv Plato banished poets from his ideal
Republic. Murry and his fellow-thinkers
are artists in the sense that they Avant to
change the Avorld, but his idea of making
himself disinterested and losing himself in
the movement he thinks he is inaugurating
is his misinterpretation of his OAvn real
motive. Since the Russian Revolution the
only artist Russia has produced is Lenin
himself. He was no more disinterested than
any other human being moA r ed by the Will
of PoAver. His material was the masses,
and his aim Avas something they themselves
were unconscious of and incapable of com-
prehending. He used them precisely as a
painter uses his pigment. He was artist
enough to knoAV the limitations of his
medium, to select the appropriate time and
place. To say that the masses he manipu-
lated created the modern Russian State is
to say that the painter’s pigments create
the picture. If Communism ever comes
in England Middleton Murry will be one
of the pigments in, not the painter of, the
picture.
PAWANG.
Australia Ignota.
To most of those who have heard of the
place, the name of Australia conjures up
a bleached and arid land where flowers
flourish Avithout perfume and birds are song-
less. If such books as Men of the Jungle,
by lon Idriess (Angus & Robertson; 65.)
had no other merit they would justify them-
selves by their evidence that this strangely
maligned country contains every variation of
climate and terrain, from the snow-bound
mountains of Victoria and N.S.W. to the
savage and inhospitable tropical conditions
of the jungle-matted gorges of the Cape
York Peninsula.
But the book is better than that. Always
colorfully observant, Idriess has in this
instance done his best work since the
“Desert Column.” As in that book, he
Avrites of what he has seen and knoAA’S by
heart. For some years before the Great
War Idriess and a party of mates wandered
in the almost impenetrable ranges of the
peninsula prospecting for gold and tin. It
Avas natural that they should come in con-
tact with strange folk of whom street-bred
Australians have no conception—the half-
mad hatters of the vine-fenced ravines, the
traders on the coast who packed into the
mountains the stores for the prospectors,
brought to the uncharted river mouths by
tardy sailing craft from Cooktown or Port
Douglas, and the polyglot, polychrome com-
munities which, dotted along the beaches,
lived by beche-de-mer fishing and a dozen
other strange occupations. In the dripping
jungle fastnesses Idriess and his mates came
in close contact with the aboriginals of the
Peninsula, then, at least, comparatively un-
harmed by civilisation. Of these and their
customs and of the thousand wild things he
seems to have been so constantly observing,
Idriess writes with rare sympathy and in-
sight. The book, too, is full of vivid
vignettes. There are the Malay pig-hunter,
Asan Rah, with his all-too-ready kris and
rifle; old George the Hatter, who lived a
community life with all manner of wild
things sharing his hut and scanty tucker,
and the “Avhite Chinaman” storekeeper of
Mt. Molloy, who played such a disconcert-
ingly good game of billiards.
Perhaps Idriess is at his best in his de-
scription of the ever-encroaching jungle,
pushing forward remorselessly over its dead
self against the invaders vainly attempting
to check its advance, and inevitably over-
coming them by its sheer, evil persistence.
Everyone who has been exposed to this
menace has felt the futility of fighting back.
Not even Kipling has sounded this note of
despairing helplessness in the fight against
Nature in more haunting fashion.
J.B.H.
The National Song Competition
Though there were then still more than
four-weeks to go before the National Song
Competition closes, 163 entries had been
received up to Saturday last; and they were
coming in at the rate of 25 to 30 a day.
The history of the competition is now
pretty well known. For some time past
Mr. J. Mcßae, acting-director of Educa-
tion in Victoria, has been trying to get
the choice made of a national song that
would be sung in the schools throughout
Australia. At present there are no less than
five different “national songs.” The Bulle-
tin made a suggestion that, many great
things having happened in the last few years,
it might be possible now to produce a song
more suitable than any in existence. Mr.
Mcßae adopted this suggestion; and when
the matter Avas brought before the recent
conference of directors of education held
in Sydney, it was left in the hands of The
Bulletin. This paper, in conjunction with
the “Woman’s Mirror,” thereupon undertook
to organise a national song competition—
the first for words only—and to offer for
these words a first prize of £25, a second
of £lO and five consolation prizes of £1 each.
After the prizes for the words of the song
have been awarded, attention will be given
to the matter of musical setting.
Entries, Avhich are free, close on Nov. 16.
Songs already published may be submitted,
but only by their author. All entries must
be original. There is no limit to. the
number of songs one person may enter.
The Bulletin and “Woman’s Mirror” are
to have the right to publish songs sub-
mitted; and any entry that may be finally
chosen as the national song is to be avail-
able for use in that way without royalty.
A Satchel of Books
Art in New Zealand (H. 11. Tombs, Wel-
lington) appears for the first time this
( September) quarter at 3s. 6d. It contains
some attractive reproductions in color, a
charmingly-written memory of Rhona Has-
zard, by Leslie Greener, and an actable
playlet by Una C. Craig.
Maud Diver’s A Wild Bird has been re-
published by John Murray at 2s. This story
of India takes the reader to the stage
where the dipsomaniacal Angus proposes to
Eve Challoner and is doubtfully accepted.
If you want to know what happens to them
it is necessary to get “Brave Wings,” which
can also be bought at, 2s.
Wine, Women and — Soldiers, by T. A.
Lowe (Methuen; 55.), is a collection of
storyettes about army life in India which
ha\ r e appeared in the Calcutta “Statesman.”
The paragraphs mostly begin with “Well”
or “So” (“Well, next day Bandsman Bar-
nacle was marched into the orderly-room”
.... So poor Barnacle spent the whole of
that night in the guardroom”), but this
blend of archness and infantilism is divert-
ing enough in small doses. Say, a dose a
week. There are some first-class line draw-
ings by Batchelor.
Robert Rendel, author of That Extra
Trick (George Allen and Unwin), is an
unusual combination —a w T ell-known actor
and a champion bridge-player. He learnt to
act in the West End of London, and he
reached his present status in the bridge-
playing world in the card-room of New
York’s Knickerbocker Club. He began
appearing on the American stage 16 years
ago, and he has signalised his return to
London by publishing this book. It does
what the title implies—shows how another
one, and sometimes more than one, can be
snatched from the tide of adversity. “Duck-
ing,” “stripping,” “the squeeze” and other
coups are dealt with in the glearest and
simplest terms,
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address, must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.T.D. : Left us dry-eyed. .. .Hesp: No
worry to us ; it’s a pleasure to find such a trier. Keep
on experimenting till you find your own way of
speaking your thoughts.... M.V.G.: Try being simple.
You sound insincere... .F.J.8.: Sorry unsuitable;
good work... .E.E.W.: Too oratorical. Don’t declaim
to your readers. Take them by the hand... .M.C.8.:
First, it’s weakly sentimental; second, it’s lazy—
seven repetitions in 15 lines... .Iv.W.: A colt, and
unbroken.... Arthur AY.: Not neat enough for so
small a thing; and the last line is ambiguous—
which of all lines a last line ought never to be.
.... Rex I.: Last stanza good; but generally it is
too cloying. And don’t try to make “dawn” and
“mourn” rhyme... .Minjohn: It isn’t good verse....
Haidee: You handle your facts too carelessly....
P.A.: Delighted to know that the young lady’s
influence is so good. But she hasn’t made a poet
of you yet.... John W.: Your dawn struck the
basket with its first beam.... J.8.C.: Nice sloppy
sentiment... .E.V.8.: Thoughts; but no harness for
them.... Sen: No more real feeling in it than in
a grindstone... .J.E.M.: A singing ear, but nothing
to sing... .R.M.8.: Ideas good; the wheels want
oiling... .Phil L.: Received, one earnest request to
destroy; granted. Still, we’ll be glad if you’ll try
again; but don’t make either love or spring your
theme... .Boz: Gone west; and there was no
moaning at the bar... .Ricardo: Style too tangled.
. ...G.D.S.: You are over-captious; a body isn’t
necessarily a dead one... .Le G.: No, we should
hardly call it tripe; it’s more like a gristly, under-
done chop P.J.1.: On the ragged side... .D.A.S.:
A bit too creepy... .L.L.: No £ s. d. in it....
R. the G.: No merit in any of ’em....F.5.: These
old themes need defter handling... .M.1.P.: There’s
promise of something much better in your jingles.
... .L.K.N.A.: Just failed to click. .. .M.P.S.: Begins
promisingly enough, but the weak ending kills it.
....Platypus: Sonnet has blind staggers... .Digger:
Sentiment excellent, rhyme vile.... H.D.: Might do
on a Children’s Page....Kep: Unacceptable....
P.0.D.: Few could read that without pain....
Mak K.: Long narrative poems on “How Dot-and-Go-
One AVon the Cup” are just a waste of ink and
paper... ,G.AA r .: “The Inverter” flew baslcetwards....
li.J.M.: Cut out the hysterics D. 8.: Truly lament-
able.... Pro Patria:
The six State Governments we have
Are useless waste to us,
For most are miserably inept
And a fearful incubus.
Horse-sense, perhaps, but it hardly lingers grate-
fully on the ear M.P.K.: No hope 8.M.1.:
Original, no doubt, but that doesn’t justify you in
calling it a poem O.B.B.: A procession of plati-
tudes Edin: Ideas there; but the carpentering
isn’t good enough... .J.A.S.: Never a doubt about
the destination of those ashes. .. .A.V.: Muddy and
mostly mediocre... .Edwin T.: “Blossom” very
nearly a winner... .Hercus: Maybe there’s a par.
in it Vale: “Tired” —you’ve said it Stan C.:
Keep going. But don’t expect to reach print in a
hurry. After you’ve learned how to write you’ve
got to know what to write.'.. .John S.: Sorry the
cursed lack of space makes us say no. .. .Dorset:
Some quality in “Breath of Morning”; but it’s a
great handicap to follow in another man’s furrow. . ..
G.A.S.: Unsuitable W.G.S.: Yes, but exactly
what do you propose should be done?.... J.8.R.:
Subject dealt with only a. week or two ago. . . .
Derwentside: Quite right; Noah Webster was the
lexicographer. It was one of those slips which
everybody spots the moment it is printed.. .-.J.H.5.:
Better wait till we settle about the words.. ..
A Member: Hopeless at that length... .Pera B.:
Far more sensible if members of the Government
were allowed to address both Chambers. That’s the
law in a good many countries —Holland, for one... .
Pensioner: Oh no, The B. is not opposed to old-age
pensions. What it does say is that we shouldn’t
profess to pay more than we can afford. We are
not paying what we profess to be paying at present;
we are passing a whole lot of the bill on to the
next generation. It is that meanness and hypocrisy
which The B. objects t 0.... A.S.M.D.: Want no
dead lambs in our paddock. .. -E.H.: Had to send
Old Larry on A.W.M.: Might suit a woman’s
paper... . A.J.T.J.: Too sugary... .E.M.G.: Method
of telling spoilt its chances. ... E.D.: About 14 years
too late... .A.S.F.: Dreamy. . . .M.T.: Far-fetched... .
K.C.: Small beer... .E.K.P.: Little better than
w'hen we first saw it....J.5.: A bit too rough....
A.N.S.: Returning desperado under armed escort.
... .N.R.: Not quite up. .. .E.M.: Absurd. .. .L.P.W.:
You can’t write stories, but after struggling through
your eye-destroying copy we’d back you to write
all the Melbourne Cup winners in the space of a
shilling M.K.: Well done; but subject has
been covered W.N.T.: Kipling, in “Departmental
Ditties” S.M.: “Arms and the Man,” “Candida,”
“Csesar and Cleopatra,’’ “How He Lied to Her Hus-
band,” “Androcles and the Lion” and “Saint Joan.”
. ...T.8.W.: Searched in vain for “the ’ wonderful
thrill and the gripping interest” you found in
your verses on the Napier earthquake.... Bush-
man: Trite stuff on a hackneyed subject... .S.G.D.:
Yes, it has brevity, but we finished it wishing there
were less... .E.J.S.: It sent us to sleep M.M.:
Forced footling... .F.S.S.: Limited demand here for
hymns, even if you could write one... .H.R.D.: Yes,
we buy poems; but the assurance that you could
supply two or three like these samples every week
awakes no glad responsive thrill.... Stingo: Quite
right; but you don’t suggest any remedy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N. 8.: About the stalest of bar-room jokes
Anon: Conversation between abo. and Italian un-
suited to cartoon A.H.: The elaborate wrappings
prepared us for a masterpiece, but one glance at
the thing was enough W.G.G.: Figures not in
harmony... .C.G.E.: Lines as scratchy as the jest.
. ...L.0.: Chalk portraits capital, but we’re not
much interested in the subjects... .F.H.: Hopeless.
.. J.S.: You must cultivate a more confute line.
... .R.E.0.M.: One of your disabilities is that you
can’t draw.


9
ff Wm
if- .>,..._ ' '
■
*
% -
. <;
■
I v
m
»
m
S
:
warn
w
m
m :
FJ
1
■
■
■ :
»
HHH
; j-|i
r >
7
hr
S:
■ : f^;
M
.* j
M •
mJ
, Jtf
1 ■ ■
mmm m
i* - * • ' j
n ■
l i
P
•*991
K ;
m
km
m
... I
' :;: -x
J
-x:;
V3tm
£f
'-A.
WKttm
HB ■
m WmSmmm
ms J-m
r. uJi
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2749.
October 19, 1032.
HER REFRESHER.
“Agitations for Law Reform are proceeding in three States. But everywhere the same rule holds, ‘Reformed law is, after all, merely cheapened law.'”
MRS. COSTS: “What I says is, they can take anything from me but my refresher, which I have ever been accustomed to take when so dispoged.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 85911.
Victoria : lllf-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ),s.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
f months, Is,
To ANY address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.;
t months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’’: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHAT MUST WE STILL DO TO
BE SAVED?
Op course a rise in prices would be a great
help. Certainly it would put up the cost
of living, so that most of us would gain
much less than we think we would; but
since it would reduce the burden of fixed
charges—interest especially—and give those
who are in debt a better chance of getting
out of it, a general price-advance would be
something to welcome with cheers. It
would especially relieve us of the spectre
of default abroad. The effect of market
variations on our exports is astonishing.
In 1924-25 their value was £162,030,159.
Had the prices which ruled in 1901, the
first year of Federation, still prevailed, the
total would have been only £58,373,048. The
exports for the year to June 30, 1932, were
valued at £84,922,884 sterling. Had our
staples been worth what they were in 1927
the total would have been approximately
£136,000,000.
Prices can be put up locally or generally.
They can be put up locally by manipulat-
ing exchange and thus depreciating our cur-
rency. This, being a form of inflation, is
only effective until prices readjust them-
selves. As soon as that happens, the effect
is lost. We are thrown back, then, on to
general price-raising; and international
action may do it. But what it would
do for us it would do for our competitors.
Our primary producers would thus gain
only as debtors; the raising of prices would
not give them any advantage in their
markets. And it is possible that something
may have to be set against even their gain
as debtors. We know what high prices did
in the past: between 1909 and 1913 the
average annual wheat export from Canada
was 20,152,000 quintals; in the period of
high prices from 1926 to 1930 it was
70,051,000 quintals. The Argentine increased
its' exports over the same period from 24 to
40 millions, the U.S.A. from 14 to 27 mil-
lions. The figures relating to almost every
other primary industry are much the same.
We can make up our minds at once, then,
that, helpful as a rise in prices would be
from the point of view of the debtor, it is
certainly not going to cut out that terrific
competition which caused the great slump
in the markets.
In considering whether we are not trust-
ing too much to a rise in prices, one
question we might well ask ourselves is
what others are doing. An American view
was put a few months ago in the monthly
circular of the National City Bank of New
York. World conditions have changed, it
wrote in effect, and people were fitting
themselves in. “The natural remedy for a
disordered equilibrium is to Work out a
new one, and adjustments to that end are
going forward all the time.” And it pro-
ceeded to show how:—
Debts have been paid and savings accumulated.
Great gains have been made in the efficiency of
individual businesses. The officers of this bank, in
the course of their duties, come in touch with
business men in all lines who testify that they
have weeded out wastes and reduced costs to a point
which two years ago would have appeared out of
the question. The whole business machine is being
tightened up during this period and put into better
working order.
When a huge corporation was financed by
the U.S. Treasuiy to take the depression
m that country in hand, it was not autho-
rised to spend a cent on doles, but it was
authorised to lend millions on easy terms
for the reconditioning and the re-equipping
of railways. Working in the same direction,
great industrial concerns have joined in a
planned attack on costs, not through wage-
reductions, but through technical improve-
ments and the cutting of waste effort. The
president of the General Electric Co. was,
at. latest, assisting to organise companies
doing national business into trade associa-
tions whose work would be “to distribute
information on volume of business, inven-
tories and standardisation of products; to
outline trade practices and methods of
accounting; and to promote the co-ordi-
nation of production.” What can be done
in that way Henry Ford has'shown in his
group of co-ordinated industries. Writing
of the Detroit, Toledo and Ironton Rail-
way, which his company bought, he said:
“The old railway had 2700 employees for
a freight business running into 5,010,000 tons
a year. The force was at once reduced to
about 1500. Now, handling twice the old
tonnage, the road has 2300 employees, and
these include the mechanics in a large repair
shop where the old engines are made over.”
It may be that we are doing as well as
others in our secondary industries. But, if
we are not, at least we can protect them,
on the ground that it is not reasonable to
expect our small works to compete on level
terms with the great works of more indus-
trialised countries. But we can do nothing
of that kind for the primary industries; We
can protect them so far as their products
are consumed in Australia; but outside this
country they must compete with the pro-
ducts of all countries on equal terms —
save so far as Britain may give her over-
seas dominions preference. If the primary
producers overseas are following in the
same lines as the secondary producers,
then we shall be faced with a keener com-
petition than ever. Are we seriously pre-
paring to meet it?
The U.S. Department of Agriculture as
long ago. as 1930 drew attention to “rapid
changes in farm production practices,” and
looked for still further great changes, princi-
pally due to the all-purpose tractor. One
effect would be the increase of grain pro-
duction: “the further reduction in horses
and mules during the next 10 years will
release from 20 to 30 millions acres of crop
land in this country for uses other than
growing feed for work animals.” It is
admitted that no worth-while figures can
be given as to the price at which wheat
can be profitably produced in America:
all that, the Department will say definitely
is that it can be produced for so little that
“poor or rough country must be driven
to pasture.”
We have done some things which no
primary-producing country can better. We
have, for example, more than doubled the
yield of wool per sheep. We have in-
creased also the carrying capacity of great
areas of our sheep country and are still
doing it—by top-dressing and pasture man-
agement. We have greatly improved the
mechanics of our own wheat industry; and
by calling in the chemist we have added
something to the per-acre yield over a con-
siderable area. But we are driven back
to this: we had hard work to compete with
Canada and the U.S.A. in the past; are we
matching them and Russia, whose agricul-
ture is being mechanised by the U.S.A., in
further improvements? The average Com-
monwealth harvest for 10 seasons 1920-30
was just under 12 bushels; Canada’s aver-
age for 1926-28 was 20.55 bushels, the
U.S.A.’s 15.27. France grows twice as much
wheat as all Australia: its average is 20.24
bushels. Italy grows nearly twice as much,
and its crop in 1929 averaged 22.01 bushels.
Is ours exceptionally poor wheat country,
or are we getting out of it only a fraction
of what we might? To say that we are
subject to droughts is no answer. In a
phenomenal year like 1926-27 our average
was no more than 13.75 bushels.
If a rise in prices was going to save us
without any further effort on our part, we
might well let the future take care of itself.
But it is plain that, even if prices do
advance, our primary industries—the wheat-
growers in particular—are going to meet
a competition more severe than they have
ever had hitherto; and we can only meet it
by doing what our competitors are doing-
improving our methods and so reducing our
costs. That our chief competitors have
much cheaper power than we and are ex-
ploiting it to the utmost only makes it
more necessary that we should find and
develop some incompletely utilised advan-
tages of our own.
OTTAWA.
Admittedly the thing sought by the Aus-
tralian representatives at Ottawa was to
give our primary industries a lift; the thing
to be avoided, if possible, was doing it at
the expense of the secondary industries.
On the whole, Mr. Bruce and his colleagues
seem to have succeeded. They gained cer-
tain concessions, one or two of them—as to
meat especially—likely to be valuable; and
they did it by leaving the tariff on British
productions where it was and increasing the
tariff on imports from other countries.
There are 440 of these increases; of
decreases in the duties on British imports
there are no more than 20. This means that
the concessions to our primary industries are
gained generally at the expense not of the
Australian manufacturer but of the non-
British exporter. But this does not mean
that we are not to be anything out of
pocket; we shall not be out of pocket only
so long as the British manufacturer can
land his goods at as low a price as the
foreign supplier has been doing it. As
there is very grave doubt whether in most
cases he can manage it, it may be that the
Australian secondary industries will gain
something, too.
As to primary products, it was not found
possible to do anything at all for wool
or anything worth mentioning for wheat.
True, there is some small pretence of help-
ing the wheat-grower; Britain agreed to put
on a duty of 3d. per bushel against the
foreign grain, with free entry to the harvests
of the dominions; but as the dominions
must undertake that their wheat shall be
sold in Liverpool as though there was no
duty—that is to say, at world parity—■
the gain is very small, if there is any at all.
As to meat, the British Government under-
takes to help dominion bacon- and beef-
growers, the former by regulating imports
of foreign bacon, the latter by gradual
restriction of foreign imports “until in the
second quarter of 1934 the reduction will
be at the rate of 35 p.c.,” at which point
it is to continue “during the period of the
agreement.” Fruit, wine, butter and cheese
get small concessions; zinc, lead and copper
also, “conditional on metals from the
dominions being offered at prices not ex-
ceeding those ruling in foreign competitive
countries.”
But additional to the schedules covering
these charges there is an agreement bearing
on tariff policy; and this will call for care-
ful consideration. The chief clauses are:—
(9) That protection by tariff shall be afforded only
to those industries which are reasonably secured of
sound opportunities for success.
(10) That the tariff shall be based on the prin-
ciple that protective duties shall not exceed such
a level as will give U.K. producers full opportunity
of reasonable competition on the basis of the relative
cost of economical and efficient production.
(11) That as soon as practicable existing protective
duties shall be reviewed by the Tariff Board in
accordance with the principles laid down in Article
10, and that, where necessary, Parliamentary action
will follow such review.
(12) That no protective duty shall be imposed
and no existing duty shall be increased on U.K.
guods to an amount in excess of the recommenda-
tion of the Tariff Board.
If these articles mean that the Australian
Parliament shall not have the right to place
an embargo on certain goods, British or
otherwise, they will not do. And it is as
much in the interests of Britain as of Aus-
tralia that they will not do; certainly if it
had not been for the embargoes imposed by
the Scullin Government we should have
been unable to pay our debts in Britain, and
the recent conversion loan would have been
impossible. A matter of that kind must
not be left to the Tariff Board—it is one
exclusively for Parliament, and the Com-
monwealth Bank ought to be a better
adviser in this matter than the Tariff Board.
Modifications of these articles must there-
fore be sought.
CROWEATER FINANCE.
South Australia met trouble ahead of
the others. The year 1927-28 was a bad one
in all Australia’s wheat country; but the
next year N. S. Wales reaped an average of
12.04 bushels and Victoria 12.59, while S.
Australia could still produce no better than
7.79. And in 1929-30 it got down to the
starvation point of 6.40 bushels. It was in
no condition to meet such a disaster. Just
previously it had been the most rampageous
borrower of them all: in 1925-26 it had
spent of loan money no less than £ll l3s.
2d. per head of population, as against an
Australian average of £5 14s. Id.; by 1930
it was carrying an interest load of £8 Bs. Id.
per head as compared with the £4 12s. of
its neighbor Victoria. In the circumstances
it was not astonishing that it began to ex-
hibit heavy deficits before the other States
had developed that habit: 1925-26 saw the
last of its surpluses, and it would not notice
that one unless a flag was tied to it.
But the greater the sinner the more he
makes of his repentance: so Mr. Hill, the
State Treasurer, delivering his budget the
other day, revealed with quite obvious pride
that not only had the estimated deficit for
the past year not been reached, but his
estimate of the deficit for the current year
was less than the quota allowed by the
Premiers’ Conference. Last year he had
budgeted for a deficiency of £i,489,507; the
actual was £1,063,360. This year the S.A.
quota was £1,215,000; Mr. Hill believes he
can get through with £1,187,493
It does not, however, follow, because the
Treasurer has bettered some purely hypo-
thetical figures, that he has done very well.
In view of the size of last wheat harvest
and the still better harvest ahead, the figures
are, on the contrary, deplorable. Actu-
ally Mr. Hill proposes to spend more in
proportion to revenue than he did last year.
N. S. Wales was last year afflicted with
finance which was either insane or criminal,
and spent £133 for every £lOO of its revenue.
This year its Government will make such
changes that it estimates it will spend only
£lO9 for every £lOO of revenue. Last year
Mr. Hill spent £llO for every £100; this
year he estimates that he will spend £ll2.
His estimate may be, very conservative; he
may do much better than his forecast. But
he puts forward his estimate and must be
judged by that.
And he made it in the full knowledge
of a bumper harvest and an exceptional
wool clip. In such circumstances are the
figures good enough? It is pleaded, of
course, that prices are very low. They are
low; but they are only very low by com-
parison with the figures of the war years
and post-war boom period. Present price
for wheat is 3s. Id.; the average for 1891-
1900 was 3s. Bd., for 1901-10 3s. lOd. In
view of the vast improvements made in
wheat-growing, what reason have we for
expecting that future prices will be better
than those of the 20 years prior to the
war? And if we have no good reason to
expect an improvement, we have every
reason to expect much poorer average har-
vests and wool clips than the last two and
the one on which this budget has been
based. It is admitted that something may
happen. Despairing of bringing back costs
(which means wages), the world may be able
to come to an agreement to put up prices;
and as a debtor country nothing could suit
us better. But this is wholly problematic;
and if it is not brought off, S. Australia
must face a much larger reduction of ex-
penditure yet. It is all very regrettable;
but we are where we are largely because
for a number of years we refused to face
the facts.
THE LEAGUE AND MANCHURIA.
Four suave and diplomatic gentlemen
have returned from Manchuria and laid
what is known as the Lytton report before
the Council of the League of Nations. The
report says that Manchuria belongs to
China, that last year Japan attacked China
without a formal declaration of war, and
that it occupied Manchuria and is still
there. The Commission recommends that
the dispute should be settled subject to
League principles and Soviet approval, and
in conformity with the Nine-Power treaty,
the Kellogg pact and the League Covenant.
It also suggests that China and Japan be
invited to discuss a treaty that will not
impair China’s sovereignty, while guaran-
teeing Japan’s rights.
Japan may agree to this. On the other
hand it may not. There are no precedents
for the first alternative, plenty for the
second. Forty years ago European Gov-
ernments began to seek commercial oppor-
tunities in Further Asia with increased in-
tensity. France began to nibble at Chinese
territory to the south, and seized Annam
and Tonking. Britain annexed Burmah.
The Czar built a railway through Siberia,
and contemplated continuing it through
Manchuria to Vladivostock. Japan, like
Korea, had been a hermit kingdom, but had
come out of its retirement a few years
before. It caught the prevailing fever and
marked Korea down for its own. Chinese
and Japanese officials began to intrigue at
the Korean Emperor’s Court. The Emperor
appealed for Chinese help, and the Son of
Heaven sent an army to Seoul. The
Mikado sent troops, too, and seized the
treaty ports. Later Japan seized the capi-
tal, bundled the Emperor, who wore a queer
hat, off his throne and placed a regent
thereon. The regent appealed to Japan for
more help, and Japan gave it generously.
In 1894 the regent declared war on China,
and Japan gallantly went to its ally’s aid.
In less than a year it had overrun Korea
and part of Manchuria and was threatening
Peking. In 1895 the treaty of Shimonoseki
gave Japan Formosa, the Pescadores, the
Liaotung peninsula and the southern end
of Manchuria, plus a thumping indemnity.
There was no League of Nations then, but
an unofficial league composed of Germany,
Russia and France presented the Mikado
with a note full of friendly advice. It
suggested that, in the interests .of inter-
national amity and abstract justice, Japan
should refrain from annexing Chinese terri-
tory. After which Russia and France
annexed more of it themselves, and Russia
proceeded to build a railway across Man-
churia, and Japan declared war on the Czar.
Meantime things were moving in Korea.
The Mikado had concluded a treaty with
his friend and brother the Emperor of
Korea, in which he promised that “the
Imperial Government of Japan shall, in a
spirit of firm friendship, insure the safety
and repose of the Imperial House of Korea.”
Somebody had already insured the repose
of the Emperor’s wife, who was opposed to
Japanese influence, by murdering her. The
Emperor appreciated Japanese protection
so much that he fled to the American Lega-
tion. The Mikado flooded Korea with
troops, replaced Korean and foreign officials
by Japanese, began to build railways and
otherwise insure the repose of the Emperor
without bothering him about the ways and
means. For instance, the whole profit of
the Imperial mint was taken from the
Emperor and given to a Japanese bank, and
the Customs and posts were administered by
Japanese. Concessions held by foreigners
were cancelled and handed over to Japan-
ese cos. In order to save the unsophisti-
cated Emperor from being fooled by ras-
cally foreigners, the Mikado also took over
the conduct of his Foreign Office and re-
placed his diplomatic agents by Japanese.
In 1910 the annexation of the country was
announced, and the safety and repose of the
Emperor was complete.
All these things were done by Japan
in a “spirit of firm friendship” for the
Emperor of Korea, just as the same sort
of thing is being done to-day for the
Prince-President of Manchuria, Mr. Pu Yi,
who wears a slightly different sort of hat;
and the process is likely to go on in spite
of the Lytton report. It is all very well
to roar at the League, but what is a poor
League to do? The League is a body com-
posed of a number of members. In an ordi-
nary human body the mind, unless diseased,
controls the movements of the limbs.
There is nothing equivalent to a mind
in the body of the League. There are
a number of limbs operating independently.
When it is a question of the body
moving in a direction to which none of
the liipbs have any serious objection—
such as opium suppression or the control
of white slavery—the League gets some-
where. When any of the limbs consider
their private interests are endangered by
something the body wants to do, there is
no movement at all, though the tongue may
wag furiously.
The League’s tongue is likely _to work
overtime for a while now, seeking what
diplomats call a “formula.” A “formula”
is a collection of words which say one
thing but mean something else. The for-
mula required will be one that will save
China’s face while leaving Japan’s inter-
ests unimpaired. In the meantime the real
claimants of Manchuria, Russia and Japan,
will be preparing the same sort of argu-
ments as were used in the case of Korea.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let’s Do Something!
Many inquiries continue to reach The
Bulletin about the scheme put forward
some weeks ago for the employment of the
out-of-work. Briefly the idea is one of barter
made practicable. The leading feature is the
issue of Production Certificates by a central
authority. A boot factory puts on 50 hands,
paying them with these certificates, paying
also for material, etc., in the. same way.
These 50 employees would not want all the
boots they produced, but they would want
clothes or bread: and these goods would
be bought with the certificates, having been
produced by men also paid with certificates.
It is suggested that there is no need of
certificates —that a bank advance would
serve the same purpose. But it wouldn’t,
because money advanced and paid out
might be hoarded. If certificates were valid
for but a few months, they would not only
have to be earned, they would have to be
spent. And quick circulation is indispen-
sable.
The scheme does not involve inflation.
Production Certificates would be issued only
against labor and material employed in
actual production; they would represent
exactly the retail price of the goods. Pro-
duction Certificates would also be Purchas-
ing Certificates.
The Bulletin is not wedded to the
scheme. If it can find a better, the better
will be enthusiastically welcomed. But it
it cruel not to do something. Hundreds of
thousands of men are idle who, if they
could be put to work, would buy one an-
other’s products. The thing of supreme
importance is to get them to work. De-
structive criticism will not feed anyone.
A city accountant writes:—
Re scheme for employing the unemployed by the
issue of Production Certificates, some of the reasons
why it appeals to me are: (I) It would create
employment; (2) many of our laws came from
necessities of the business community; (3) future
price-levels are uncertain.
(1) To overcome different phases of the depres-
sion, we are already trying many plans other than
normal, such as statutory interest-reduction, “volun-
tary” conversions, unemployment taxes, moratoria,
sales taxes and divers other things, all of which
bristle with inequalities and difficulties. Since we
have stood all these and other things, let us go one
more and try a plan which definitely aims at direct
employment. The difficulties inherent in the scheme
can be dealt with as they arise, as they have been
with all the other experiments referred to.
(2) The pressure of necessity has brought into
being many of the laws which to-day we regard as
unchangeable.
(3) There are so many governing factors (both
internal and international) that future price-levels
cannot be foretold. My opinion is that, on the
whole, the intense application of science and art
is always influencing a general fall in prices, while
the machinations of man tend the opposite way—
by excessive government control, high taxes, war
and war debts, tariff wars and the like. In conse-
quence, if we are blessed with high prices we are
cursed with contra troubles. It is dangerous, there-
fore, to count on price levels to save us. To do so
is to rely on the unknown. There is plenty of
money in the country for our needs. Our job is to
make it work much faster. There is every reason
why we should try to counteract unprecedented con-
ditions by means which, although also unprecedented,
appear reasonable, and which could not have more
harmful reactions than most of the expedients already
in use.
The solution of the problem of finding
employment has been left to politicians,
with a little help from economists. Neither
lot has had much expei-ience with indus-
try, as a rule; and it is not surprising that
little real progress has been made. Now,
however, the Federal Government has set
up a small committee of public-service heads
to establish a sort of clearing-house for
ideas on re-employment; and if this body
will call for the help of half a dozen practis-
ing accountants, it ought to be possible to
produce details of a scheme (either the one
The Bulletin has put forward or some
other) by which the out-of-work may be
enabled to provide their own market for
their own products.
4_
Parkhill’s New Job.
Australia has another Postmaster-General
—the third in 10 months. If he is content
to copy most of his predecessors he will be a
figurehead. But Parkhill has shown some
energy in grappling with the problem of
the Northern Territory, and in the campaign
against Communists; so there are hopes of
better things: He will, however, need all
his energy and spirit if he is to contend
victoriously with the bureaucrats and trade-
union bosses.
This Postmaster-General’s department
ought to be as bright an example of public
enterprise as there is in the world. It
controls monopolies which could be farmed
out for at least a million a year, and charges
for the delivery of letters a price which
would not be tolerated if the post office
were under private control. Yet, though it
has lately shown a small surplus, over the
last 10 years it has been a liability instead
of an asset; it has added to the burden of
the taxes instead of lightening it; shown
a contempt for the people’s requirements
and convenience instead of making them its
main consideration. Self-sufficient and arro-
gant in its dealings with State departments
as well as the public (it persistently refuses
to assist the police in their efforts to sup-
press betting shops), it has a knack of being
stupidly conservative where change is called
for and recklessly experimental where there
is need for caution. This conservatism has
been glaringly exemplified at Sydney in
the case of the William-street postmaster
and his assistant. On a December morning
these two men were attacked by ruffians
while carrying money along a street infested
with bad characters; pepper was thrown in
their eyes, and their assailants got away
with a bag containing £9OO-odd. On an
October morning this outrage was repeated
in every detail, except that there was £530
in the purloined bag and ammonia was sub-
stituted for pepper—with cruel results to
the assistant, poor fellow, who has lost one
eye and may lose the sight of the other.
The lesson of the first attack was wasted
on the department; nothing was done to
safeguard the men or the money (although
a car drawn up at the post office would have
been protection enough), and the criminals
laid their plans accordingly.
In an effort to appear modern, the de-
partment installed an expensive picture-
gram outfit, anticipating a craze which never
arrived. Nobody now uses picturegrams
except an occasional evemng-paper corre-
spondent sending the finish of a Cup race or
the photograph of some minx who has
bared nearly everything except her im-
mortal soul, and it is doubtful if the picture-
gram outfit could be given away. Very
different w T as the departmental attitude
when the latest type of telephone came out
in Britain. The British Post Office has
bought 400,000 of these ’phones, and is
hiring them out for Bs. a year. Apprised of
this, our tribulation said, in effect, that
it had laid in an eight- or ten-years’ supply
of old instruments, and if people wanted the
new ’phone they would have to buy it
themselves and pay an installation fee, as
well as a rent of £5 10s. a year and lid. a
local call. There are heaps of complaints
about this telephone branch, the common-
est relating to overcharges for calls; yet when
annual expenditure exceeds annual income
by a quarter of a million sterling it reckons
it has had a good year. The telegraph
branch, which has also gone in for short-
sighted purchase of costly equipment, is an
equally chronic loser of public money, having
accomplished an aggregate deficit of
£1,126,700 in five years. The postal branch
shows profits, but they are small considering
the monopoly it has and the tuppence it
charges for delivering a letter. The 1931-
32 results for all branches were not given
by Mr. Lyons in his Budget speech, but
for 1930-31, according to the Commonwealth
Statistician, they were: Receipts, £12,839,104;
disbursements, £12,994,870. Though the
concern has been converted into a taxing
machine, it usually fails to return any
revenue. And it has a sorry record in the
domain of broadcasting, the control of
which, on the entertainment side, was
handed over for three years to a syndicate
composed of a director of cinema theatres,
a music-hall proprietor and a seller of sheet
imlsic.
If Parkhill' aspfres to make an enduring
name for himself as an administrator, he
has his opportunity now.
4
Health Week.
We have so many interests these days that,
when a hearing is sought for anything in
particular, we quite wisely make a “week”
of it. Nothing better deserves its choice
than health, to which first Victoria and
then N. S. Wales have just been giving
attention—not because so little has been
done, but because the progress made offers
such great encouragement to attempt more.
Figures in this connection show an amaz-
ing improvement even during the last few
years. In 1901 Australia lost by death 1222
per 100,000 of its population. In 1930 it
lost only 859 per 100,000. In the five
years 1876-80 the average loss for N. S.
Wales was 1609, for Victoria 1492; in 1930
the corresponding figures were down to 850
and 980. And there is a much larger pro-
portion of infants now than there was then,
and infant mortality is always high. More
advance has, happily, been made in
that direction than in any other. Until the
beginning of this centuiy Australian records
did not show anything to be proud of. In
1871 the rate of deaths of infants under one
year old was 11,809 per 100,000 births; in
1896-99 it was still no better than 11,011, a
saving of only 798 per 100,000 births. Be-
tween 1901 and 1930 the improvement was
from 10,361 to 4724, a saving of no less than
5637 per 100.000 births. We have now
reached the highest places in this list—
Maoriland, Australia, Holland, Switzerland,
England and Sweden take that order. But
while the death rate is 34 per 1000 births
in Maoriland and 47 per 1000 in Australia
it is 60 in England—and 120 in Italy, 154
in Hungary and 197 in Roumania.
Where science • has got to the root-cause
of disease the results are superb. Down
to the ’nineties it was still a common ex-
perience to show an annual death-rate of
over 300 per million of population from
diphtheria; at that time Victoria showed 358
and S. Australia 369. For all Australia in
1930 the recorded deaths numbered only 60
per million—the rate has been halved even
during the past 15 years. Scarlet fever, too,
now responsible for a death-rate of but 18
per million, swept off as. many as 644 per
million per annum in Victoria in the late
’seventies. Science plus publicity has
accomplished almost as much in relation to
diarrhoeal diseases of infancy. In Australia
15.207 children under two died from this
cause in the five years 1911-15; by 1921-25
the number had been brought back to 9866;
in 1926-30 to 6601. The death rate had
been reduced in these 20 years from 636 to
211 per million of population. Here public
hygiene has much to be proud of.
There is a record of great achievement,
too, in relation to tubercular disease, which
for so long baffled research. In the first
half of the ’eighties every tenth death in
Victoria was due to this trouble; in all
Australia we lost 1236 per million of our
scanty population every year. Hygiene has
got the loss down to 510 per million, and
the rate to one in every 17 deaths. Of
all countries in the world Queensland leads
in freedom from the disease: it has a death-
rate of 40 per 100,000 of population, as
against 80 in Canada, 93 in England, 126
in Sweden, 165 in France and 196 in Japan.
Our droughts have their compensations.
Now the attack is upon cancer —no more
hopeless than tuberculosis seemed, and
already yielding some results. But much
still remains to be done. In 1871-75 cancer
killed only one in every 50 of our people
who died; to-day it kills one in every eight.
There is, at the same time, no justification
for what appears to be a common belief
that Australia holds an evil pre-eminence in
this disease. Our own death-rate from it
is 95 per 100,000 of population; that of
Germany is 131, of Britain and Northern
Ireland 142, of Scotland 146.
The great improvement in mortality
figures means something in money as well
as in comfort and happiness. In the 10
years to 1873 the A.M.P., Australia’s great
life-assurance office, was able to return
bonuses equal to 23 p.c. of the premiums
paid; in the 10 years to 1903 it returned
34 p.c.; in the seven years to 1930, 55 p.c.
Longer life of the policy-holder is not the
only factor in securing these results, it is
true; but it is a factor of veiy great conse-
quence.
A Problem Which is Mostly a Scandal.
The Prime Minister has written to the State
Governments suggesting that Ministers for
Transport should meet at an early date
“to endeavor to solve the perplexing trans-
port problem.” “Until this has been solved,”
the letter runs, “it is doubtful whether the
States can ever regain financial equilibrium,
or whether the taxpayers can hope for
relief.” That is the way the politician puts
it. The public might put it much more
simply and plainly. Until the politician has
courage to do his duty, the States will not
be able to balance their budgets, even
though they charge excessively for railway
services and bleed taxpayers without mercy.
Australian railways are afflicted with
several curses, the greatest of which is the
political line, built to capture votes. Noth-
ing we can do will shift the burden which
these lines represent. The annual interest
bill on Australian State lines in 1912 was
£5,537,199, and £1,106 257 was left after
paying it. In 1930, only 18 years later, the
annual bill was £15,516.740, and there was a
deficiency of £7,584,003. But while we
cannot shift the burden of interest which
has thus descended like an avalanche upon
the backs of the taxpayers, something can
be done to reduce working expenses. These
amounted to 54.07 d. per train mile run in
1912. In 1930 they reached 130.18 d. The
working expenses were 65 p.c. of the gross
earnings in 1912; they were 82 p.c. in 1930
and had been 86 p.c. in 1926. In the past
17 years the deficits of Australian railways
have reached 68 millions; in the last 10
years alone they have amounted to 56 mil-
lions. Australia is not only gridironed with
political lines; it is weighed down with
political appointments and political fixa-
tion of pay and working conditions.
It may be a case of shutting the door
after the steed has been stolen; yet some-
thing ought still to be done to safeguard the
public against further political lines. It
is no use suggesting that politicians’ pay
should be governed in part by the country’s
financial showing at the end of each year,
though that would be a perfectly legitimate
and sensible reform to make. But some-
thing might be done in the way of requir-
ing every new railroad to be approved by
two Parliaments. There hardly ever is any
urgency in these matters; and if it was
necessary for one Parliament to approve of
construction and for the next Parliament to
authorise the spending of money upon it,
we should not have that scramble to put
railway bills through and start work upon
them which has so often been seen hitherto.
Our habit of changing Governments at
almost every general election would
be a help; for a work would not be done
without the approval in most cases of both
political parties.
Our Fantastic Taxes.
An inquirer has asked this paper’s opinion
as to the correctness of the Federal Tax-
ation Department’s action in taxing him
upon income derived in another Dominion,
and which is not remitted to this country.
His income abroad is below the exemption
limit in the country whence it is derived,
and, therefore, is not taxed there. His Aus-
tralian income is well below the Federal
exemption limit. But the Federal Tax-
ation Department adds the two together
and demands payment of what amounts to
31 p.c. on his gross income from all sources,
taking its stand on the assertion that it is
entitled to levy tax on any income of a
resident of Australia derived abroad if tax
is not levied on that income in the country
whence it is derived.
The legality or otherwise of the Depart-
ment’s attitude is a matter of international
rather than of Statute law, and to test it
would prove exceedingly expensive. But
there is no doubt whatever that such
rulings are contrary to justice and to the
principles on which taxation is supposed to
be imposed in civilised States. Adam
Smith’s first canon was that citizens should
be taxed “in proportion to the revenue
which they respectively enjoy under the
protection of the State.” As later com-
mentators have-pointed out, this must be
construed as meaning “in proportion to the
protection and assistance afforded by the
State in the process of the acquisition of
individual fortunes.” As the State of Aus-
tralia offers no protection nor assistance
whatever in regard to incomes derived out-
side its boundaries, it should not, if the
fundamental principle cited is to be re-
spected, be allowed to bring such incomes
within its jurisdiction. As soon as it does
so it lays itself open to a charge of infringing
the principle of “equality of sacrifice.” If
this inquirer’s overseas income had been
derived from one of those lands where even
such a small amount as accrues to him
would be taxed a farthing or so in the £,
his taxation “sacrifice” would have been
about a thirtieth of his current assessment.
But because the degree of “protection and
assistance” he gets abroad is. considered
there not worth assessing, he is penalised
in Australia.
The Taxation Department is doubtless
right in considering that it is its duty to
collect as much taxation as it can. It
could not work very efficiently on any
other principle. The blame for the
anomalies, injustices and (quite possibly)
illegalities involved in its exactions must be
laid to the door of the Legislatures, which
have authorised methods of assessment so
complex that nobody save a few tax-gather-
ing officials can understand them, and
which have allowed the same officials to
build up a whole body of laws of their own
invention, disguised as interpretations of
Statute law. We have now got to the stage
where a Commissioner or a Deputy-Com-
missioner can promulgate any absurdity,
securely entrenched behind the knowledge
that it will take a High Court or possibly
a Privy Council judgment to prove that it
is absurd.
4
The Untouchables.
“NAkhoda”: Much of the comment about
the Indian Untouchable assumes that there
is only one side to the question and that
the conventional Western one. The assump-
tion is that there is no caste system in
Western lands, and that the system flour-
ishes in India to the general detriment.
Admitted that most of the ideas on which
Indian society is founded are silly; but,
then, so are most of the ideas on which
Western society is founded. Yet society
staggers along somehow in both places.
People have a marvellous capacity for
adapting themselves to any idea and making
the best of it. They get used to it and
come to regard it as the normal condition
of existence, and when they see very much
the same idea in another country they
don’t recognise it and think it foolish.
In India certain low castes or persons of
no caste at all may not use public wells,
courts of justice, dispensaries and inns; in
some places they may not use public roads
or pass along streets or enter shops or read
the holy scriptures. Some are not allowed
to work, only beg, and if they are begging
within 200 yards of a road they must put
a green leaf on the road so that the sacred
Brahmin may shout and warn them to
retire to a distance where their presence
will not pollute him. At one time if a high-
caste Hindu met a puliah on the highway
he was entitled to stab him on the spot;
consequently the untouchables formed
criminal tribes numbering four and a hall
millions. In theory the murderer of a Brah-
min is condemned to take the form of an
insect feeding on ordure, and when reborn
will be blind for more than five times as
many years as there are hairs on the sacred
cow; but he can expiate his crime by feed-
ing 40,000 Brahmins, so only untouchable
millionaires are able to escape the penalty ;
the Brahmin who murders a sudra gets off
with the comparatively light sentence of
having to recite a prayer 100 times.
These ideas are admittedly silly; but on
the credit side might be placed the fact
that the Brahmin sets the values for the
community, and they are higher on the
whole than in our caste system. A Brah-
min may sit on the banks of the Ganges
contemplating his immortal soul in a loin-
cloth without loss of caste. His values are
intellectual, and it is considered more admir-
able to be a philosopher living on alms than
a successful broker living on the starvation
of millions by cornering the food supply.
The values set by the Brahmins of the
West are commercial ones: getting on in
life commercially is the standard for every-
body The theory is that everybody has
an equal opportunity of getting on; but
in practice the proportion. of Brahmins to
non-Brahmins in the West is no higher than
in the Madras province, where there are
1 \ million Brahmins to 41 million non-
Brahmins. .. ,
It is a mistake, too, to imagine that the
Indian untouchables are consumed with
the sense of their own misery. They were
only made aware of it when they became
a political issue. There is usually some-
thing lower to kick, as on a warship where
one rating can always jump on the rating
lower down until you come to the powder-
monkey who jumps on the snip s cat.
Society is largely a business of relieving
one’s feelings on the weaker vessel Under
a caste system you bully the caste below
vou In a completely democratised com-
munity everybody bullies everybody else, as
in America, where everybody is trying to
stop everybody else drinking alcohol or
seeing the sort of moving picture everybody
would like to see. Most of Gandhis ideas
are borrowed from Western democracy,
but we don’t recognise them because they
are dressed up in a quaint uniform of
Indian spirituality.


I bet I know what the doctor
will say.. /change to
CRAVEN “AT’
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years* Reputation for Quality
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
Our merchandise exports for the first two
month's of this financial year were £2,960,000
short of paying for imports : our imports were
£3,016,(XX) more than they were in the same
two months of last year, and our exports
were £699,000 less. Probably our imports
in bulk were not very much larger; they
only look much larger because the £ sterling
is now depreciated as well as the Australian
£. But that doesn’t improve the situation.
In theory our exports should have sprung
ahead to counterbalance the spring in im-
ports ; but they haven’t, and they are not
likely to. And if. that is so, the only way
to right the position is to put an embargo
on superfluous imports. We shall not be
able to pay our foreign debts otherwise.
, All that is the matter with Earle Page
is that he was top dog in a country town too
long to be willingly anything else anywhere
else. It was that which made him want to
lay down the law to Lyons when the Country
LYONS: “What about giving us a hand now
to lift her out?”
COCKY PARTY : “It’s easier to sit here and
tell you how to do it.”
party was invited to come in in the first
place; and it is that which has made Lyons
very definite in his negotiations with the
Country party lately. The Country party is
one thing; the Country party speaking and
acting through Page is quite another thing.
At the end of the war Australia owed the
Old Man in London 92 millions, which it
undertook to pay off in 35 years—interest
£4 18s. 4d. p.c. a year; sinking fund, £1 Is.
Bd. p.c. When trouble settled down on us
Father John said we could forget the sinking
fund for a couple of years (June, 1931, to
June, 1933) ; later he agreed to let interest
also stand over for a year. Now he has let
it stand over again; so in 1932-33 Lyons
will be spared payments of about 5 millions
in all. Incidentally, Bruce will have to ask
Father John some day whether he is still
paying £4 18s. 4d. p.c. on the money he spent
on our account.
Lyons and Latham wanted Paterson in
their Ministry—he has proved himself one
of the ablest men in Parliament —and were
prepared to make room for two other
Agrarians, but shrank from the thought of
having to put up with Page. So when Page
demanded to be consulted about the non-
selection of Page, negotiations ceased.
Parkhill now takes F'enton’s place as Post-
master-General, ’bus-man Stewart succeeds
Hawker as Minister of Commerce, Perkins
goes to the Ministry of the Interior and Guy
becomes Assistant Minister. A weak point
of the reconstructed concern is that there
isn’t a real countryman in it; and Queens-
land —wild with the Government on other
grounds, notably the permission granted for
the introduction of 40,000 centals of Fiji
bananas p.a. at the old rate of duty, 2s. 6d.
a cental—is furious because it is still with-
out a full Minister. Lyons-Latham will have
to make another effort to get Paterson and
Hunter.
The ancients who had to wrestle with the
problem of unemployment and depression due
to famine must think we’re joking when
we groan over the problem of unemploy-
ment and depression due to glut. They saw
thousands of infants starve to death; we
—well, let the Sydney figures do their own
talking. In Sept., 1929, of every 10,000
infants born 548 died; in Sept., 1931, 440;
in Sept., 1932, no more than 341. This
depression isn’t killing infants; for some
reason or other it is giving them a better
chance to live.
Held up for a week by a Labor objection
to standing orders being isuspended, the
Argyles had the Betting Tax Bill made an
urgent measure, and it was put through both
Houses in one day. The idea was to have
the new impost in operation on Caulfield
Cup Day, and it is expected to bring in
£30,000 for the balance of 1932-33. Labor
has no use for the tax, since McShortodds
is hurt. Being anti-capitalist, it champions
bookmakers,
Queensland’s Cotton Board has made an
interesting discovery. Drought having de-
stroyed much of last season’s cotton crop,
the board was forced to import 4000 tons
of cotton-seed to meet the demand for edible
oils and seek-cake. It found that the freight
from East Africa was a trifle more than
half that asked for carrying the same cargo
on the rail between Brisbane and Rock-
hampton—some 300 miles. Politically-con-
trolled railways are wonderful institutions.
Stevens was asked by Mair, the Albury
M.L.A., whether he proposed to continue
the extortion of N.S.W. unemployed-relief
tax (5 p.c.) on income derived from other
States, from which local income and relief
taxes and the Federal taxes on property
income (the “special” one alone is 10 p.c.)
have been taken already. He replied that
the question had been considered by the
Premiers’ conference, and was to be con-
sidered again, and that he had discussed it
with the Vic. Government (“to see if
some reciprocal arrangement could be
arrived at”), and would discuss it again.
So hard it is in a country where taxation
of property income has become very like
organised robbery of the thrifty to get an
infamous wrong redressed! Whatever the
constitutional position may be, no State has
a shred of moral right to tax income from
other States. It is a case, not for “reci-
procal arrangements,” but for simple jus-
tice and fair dealing.
Tas. Solicitor-General Griffiths reported
that four members of the State Parliament
—Hon. Minister Hobbs and Butler, of the
Assembly, and Murdoch and Nicholls, of
the Council —had forfeited tlieir seats by
getting loans from the State Agricultural
Bank, and the Government had to admit
that he was right. It is introducing a
validating bill. Probably similar action will
be necessary in other States with farmer-
politicians and agricultural banks, for on the
essential point—never raised before —State
constitutions are very much alike. But
Commonwealth farmer-legislators are safe.
They render themselves incapable of sitting
by going bung, becoming attainted of trea-
son, receiving a sentence for an offence
punishable with imprisonment for a year or
more, or taking “any fee or honorarium for
services rendered to the Commonwealth or
.... in the Parliament to any person or
State”; but they are not expressly forbid-
den to borrow from a Government bank.
“Well, thank God, Harry’s given us some-
thing to talk about. I was beginning to
think we might have to do something
for these unemployed.”
If house-agent Lang wanted a man to col-
lect rents, would he give the job to a
stranger who owned to having been sacked
by his last boss for crooked work, and with-
out inquiry pronounce the stranger an in-
jured innocent and the best rent-collector
in Australia? He would do nothing of the
kind, nor does that sort of house-agent
exist. Yet, gassing about Goode, his .Chief
Transport Commissioner —who did not even
defend himself when charged with corrup-
tion and resigned immediately he was de-
clared guilty by a Royal Commissioner—Lang,
the politician, said that though he knew his
protegd had been “dismissed from the rail-
ways on the same bribery charge,” he
picked Goode as “the outstanding railwayman
in Australia,” and “set up a system of trans-
port with that man in charge.” And “I
never met Mr. Goode till after he was
appointed.” An outburst like that would
be the end of any ordinary politician; but
Lang can do no wrong in the eyes of his
multitude of mugs.
Australia’s air force “consists mostly of
buildings.” Its navy has been reduced to
two cruisers and an obsolete aircraft-carrier.
It needs at least 130,000 trained soldiers:
it possesses 30,000 militia “without modern
equipment and without reserves.” An enemy
HISTORY: “Young man, that is a war cloud.
How about getting ready if it should
burst unexpectedly—as the last one
did?”
AUSTRALIA: “An, don’t be a nark, Can’t
y’see I’m up to me neck picking the
Melbourne Cup winner?”
striking at the Commonwealth would tackle
Westralia first, and would have to reckon
with, at most, 1200 men, “inadequately
trained and equipped.” Capture of King
George’s Sound would be “a matter of con-
venience for him; we could not stop it.”
Yet with an invader at Albany we could
not send a cargo round the Cape or through
the Canal. These and other grave warnings
were spoken in the House of Reps, by the
Bendigo Harrison who used to be command-
ant at Duntroon —closed by the Scullidores
in a fit of economy. For once even Labor
members sat up and listened.
It has been reported in London, and
denied, that Japan wants to buy Portuguese
Timor, the final stepping-stone on the pro-
posed aerial route from London to Australia.
These yarns are always flying round. In
1913 Japan was alleged to be negotiating
for the purchase of the coal-bearing British
island of Labuan, off the coast of Borneo.
Later it was credited with having acquired
a rubber plantation in Johore, on which
it was building concrete gun implacements
for the bombardment of Singapore. Portu-
gal would no doubt welcome a sum of money
in place of its derelict colony in Timor,
but Britain would no more allow the Japan-
ese to purchase Timor from its ancient ally
than let them set up fortifications in Trafal-
gar-square. Also, the Dutch own half of
Timor and covet the whole of. it, and the
defence of the Dutch East Indies is linked
up with the Singapore Base.
The visit of a Vic. railwayman to Russia
had an amusing sequel. He was under con-
tract to the railwaymen’s union to deliver
lectures on his experiences, from which the
union hoped to recoup itself for his travel-
ling exes. Unfortunately, he discovered that
Russian railwaymen receive special rewards
for good work. This was awkward, as
his union executive regards the butty-gang
and bonus system with loathing. As he
objected to the executive censoring his lec-
tures in the interests of its own roipantic
notions of Soviet economy, he had to be
released from his contract; and he is now
back at his old job of portering.
Maoriland’s umptieth commission on public
expenditure has produced a report which
the Cabinet of farmers will probably inter
in the most inaccessible pigeon-hole it can
find. Sacking of the Board of Agriculture
and many agricultural department inspectors
is recommended ; also abolition of the subsidies
on fertilisers, cow-testing, rabbit destruction,
flax research and fruit export, cessation of
the free railway carriage of lime and fer-
tilisers and the substitution of a non-political
board for the Lands Department. The
recommendations are designed to save
£1,000,000 a year. An interim report, the
suggestions in which' proved more palatable,
showed how £3,000,000 p.a. could be lifted
from the back of the taxpayer, and was
acted upon to a very large extent.
In his reference to the double relief-tax
swindle, Premier Stevens said : “The ques-
tion concerns not only Victorian taxpayers
but also taxpayers in South Australia and
Queensland.” He is wrong as regards Queens-
land. Asked by Roberts. M.L.A., to make
the position clear, the local commissioner
reported that, while Queensland relief tax
is levied on income, “other than from per-
sonal exertion or business,” going from his
State to N. S. Wales —where the tax-
gatherers take 5 p.c. of this income and ox
the amounts paid in Federal and Queensland
taxes—“income derived by residents of
Queensland from sources outside Queensland,
such as investments in N. S. Wales, is not
subject to unemployment-relief tax in
Queensland.”
The Federal Government has set up an
advisory committee to act as a clearing house
for ideas on how to employ the unemployed.
It consists of four civil servants, well-cliosen,
and a secretary; and something ought to
come out of it. The Government’s main
idea is to get men into jobs without piling
up the public debt any higher; and with that
in view it might consider whether it can't
produce working plans for the scheme which
Tile Bulletin lias been talking about —a
scheme of glorified barter: putting the un-
employed to work and making them provide
their own market.
Queensland has taken the reduction of the
duty on a limited quantity of Fiji bananas
as an even fouller blow than the “sugar con-
spiracy,” as Forgan Smith calls it, Both
parties in the Assembly have protested
against the outrage. Still, there are parts
of Australia which never see a Queensland
or northern N. S. Wales banana, and they
had to be considered. Moreover, something
had to be offered to the Crown colonies or
they would not have agreed to the conces-
sions negotiated at Ottawa. Those conces-
sions are so substantial that Queensland
will gain a great deal more on butter,
frozen and canned meat, bacon, condensed
milk and the like than it will lose on
bananas, if it loses anything.
ADMIRAL NELSON PAGE: “Why don’t you
stick to your historical character? I
said 'Kiss me, Hardy.’”
Paton is expected to fill tlie late Beard-
pore’s place as M.L.A. for Benambi’a (Vic.) ;
if he does the Cockies will have gained a
seat from the U.A.P. With absent votes to
be counted, the Labor man, McHarg, was
leading with 2856 votes; but Paton had 2547
and Harris (U.A.P.) 2511, and most of the
Cocky and U.A.P. people exchange prefer-
ences. Paton is a Tallangatta councillor
whose family has lived in the district for
nearly 80 years.
You can always raise a cheer in the
Perth Parliament by blaming Federation for
all the woes Perth is afflicted with. But
the old figures about “bloodsucking octo-
puses” and the like are getting badly worn,
and secessionist orators are forced to cast
around for new metaphors. “The West,”
said Chief Secretary Baxter, speaking to
the Address-in-Reply the other day, “feels
all the disillusion of a beautiful heiress en-
trapped into marriage by a coldly selfish
spendthrift.” Canberra, he added, might be
dismissed as a mere white elephant, but
Melbourne was “a ravening tiger, whom the
West must feed with choice mutton chops.”
Finally—“ Let us press on with this agita-
tion for our rights, and our desert march will
yet lead us back to our lost Eden.” For an
olla podrida of mixed metaphors this would
take a lot of beating.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Chevrofoi'd”: No need to go to Gilbert
and Sullivan for topical comment; even the
most primitive folklore contains lessons for
the discerning. A couple of years ago two
Melbourne men, who were partners in a
block of shares, went to law over the divi-
sion of the property, and a final judgment
was recently arrived at. There is a Malay
legend about a man, Amit, who, inadvertently
planted a banana-tree on the holding of a
neighbor, Damit. When the tree came to
maturity Amit and Damit were unable to
decide who rightly ow-ned the fruit thereof,
so they decided to divide the crop equally
and called in an impartial monkey to effect
the settlement. The monkey divided the
bananas into two parts. Amit said that his
share was smaller than Damit’s, so, to
satisfy him, the monkey ate portion of
Damit’s. Damit then declared that his share
was now smaller than Amit’s, so, rather than
give Damit cause for dissatisfaction, the
monkey ate portion of Amit’s. The process
went on until there were only two bananas
left on the tree, and the monkey claimed
these -as his fee for conducting the arbitra-
tion proceedings. In the Melbourne case
the two friends had to sell their shares in
order to pay the lawyers.
:|= * * *
“Jetsam”: There is a shorter sermon on
record than the two-minute one in Mel-
bourne (B. 12/10/’32). It is described by
Baring Gould in one of his books of Cornish
reminiscences. One stormy Sunday morning
the parson at Loo mounted his pulpit and
gave out his text. He had just opened with
“Beloved brethren” or words to that effect
when someone threw open the door and
shouted that an East Indiaman had come
ashore. In the subsequent sprint for the
beach and pickings, the parson easily led the
field.
“Rokko”: The depression has caused the
employees of a Sydney concern to reverse
their estimate of the boss. For. years they
worked solidly for the prosperity of this
individual, who was never known to hand
out a word of praise. Came the slump, and
the -|!taff trembled. Heads of departments,
handing in returns showing steady losses,
waited for censure or dismissal,, but nothing
happened. The staff remained intact at the
same salaries, the boss being prepared to take
bad times in the same unemotional manner
in which he took good ones. The only
difference is that he nowadays has a staff
that unanimously eulogises him.
* * * *
“Flodden”: One White, a member of the
British Association, has been advocating a
return to the old practice of utilising sheep’s
milk for human food. Time was when the
ewe was extensively milked in Britain, and
one of the most
poignant of Scot-
tish ballads
“The Flowers o’
the Forest,” com-
memorates the
destruction
of Scottish youth
on Flodden Field
with its opening
reference to the
gloom settled on
the “yowe milk-
ing” in the home-
steads of Low-
1a n d Scotland.
Nowadays Bri-
tain ignores the
sheep as a milk-
producer. On the
Continent the ewe
is responsible not
only for milk,
but for some of
the finest cheeses
made. The most
notable, perhaps,
is Roquefort,
specially matured
for years in the
caves of that
name, but now
unobtainable in
Australia.
*
“Rahman”; At
the recent admit-
tance of Iraq to
the League of
Nations one of
the congratula-
tory speeches was
delivered by a
Turkish delegate.
Under the rule of
the Arab Caliphs,
Iraq, always not-
able for its fer-
tility and its ela-
borate methods
of irrigation, was
literally one of
the gardens of
the world. The
Turks under
Selim Sultan con-
quered the coun-
try in 1515. Four
hundred years
later, when it
was rescued from
them, Iraq had
been converted into a desert with no
life or production worth mentioning save
along the Tigris and Euphrates. Its
great trading marts had become insignifi-
cant, and its once-famous irrigation network
had disappeared. It was certainly up to
the Turkish delegate to congratulate Iraq.
* * * *
. ~ „, .. . .
: It is often recalled that Maine,
which recently swung over from the Repub-
lican to the Democratic ticket, was the first
U.S. State to go “dry”: it fa hot so well
known that its enforced sobriety was re-
sponsible for the best-known of all words
tor dealing in illicit liquor. Most of the
Maine workers outside the towns were timber
cutters, and a very wild, rough lot. They
habitually wore knee-high boots and when
they could no longer get their liquor openly
they carried their smuggled stuff slid down
the legs of these boots. From this custom
the smuggler of forbidden alcohol got his
name of “bootlegger.”
# * *
“Strict Veg.”: It is an interesting and
perhaps significant fact that pornographic
literature of the sort that used to reach this
country from Germany—“Kladderadatsch,”
“Fliegende Bliitter,” “Jugend” and “Sim-
plicissimus”—now comes from the . United
States. Papers like “Ballyhoo,” mainly de-
voted to girls’ legs, are only one of the
numerous indications —talkies are an-
other—that the Americans are the
most sex-starved nation on earth. It
is difficult to imagine a book like
“Jurgen” or “The Expert” being
written anywhere but in Uncle Sam’s
country. The repressed American is
not merely the logical product of his
Puritan forebears, but he is a natural
consequence of the national ideal of
subordinating everything to commer-
cial success. The same person usu-
WHAT ELSE COULD A FELLOW DO?
“You bad boy, breaking all those eggs!”
But I goiter hold them tight, Mummie, or else I’ll drop them.”
ally develops potentialities towards violence
unsuspected by himself, and nationally the
American is becoming rapidly more belli-
gerent. During the Shanghai row a wave of
warlike emotion, camouflaged as pity for
Ah Sin, swept over Hooverland.
* $ * *•
“R.R.”: The churches may damn the
N.S.W. Minister for Health with bell, book,
candle and threats of lost votes at the next
elections for his policy of supporting the
hospitals from the proceeds of gambling, but,
true to his ancient campaigning-cry, Weaver,
“won’t wobble.” He can’t. What was the
most popular feature of the Rose Day drive
for the United Charities fund? In the words
of a “Sun” advt.: —
rhe prizes awaiting the lucky ones at chocolate
wheels, housie-housie, race games and the popular
monkey speedway.
Why are the lottery profits now falling off?
Partly because there are fewer drawings
(which means a lessened interest in each
lottery, in addition to a smaller sum risked
as a whole), but also because people are
beginning to realise that the N.S.W. gamble
isn’t such a good one as Tatt.’s. Whiddon
offers a little over 800 chances for ss. 3d.,
Tatt.’s a little over 1000 chances for 55., with
both filling at 100,000 tickets. If Weaver
means to keep the hospitals permanently
on a level, keel he will have to make the lot-
tery more attractive (or substitute some
better gamble for it), and close his eyes to
housie-housie, race games, etc., on special
occasions, such as Rose Days and Government
House fetes. Of course it’s rotten ethics.
But can anyone suggest any different means
of keeping the hospitals solvent?
* * * *
“Pawang”: The case of the war-wounded
Hungarian soldier who died in Budapest
after having been awake for 16 years was
received with' scepticism by Australian medi-
coes. Nevertheless, it is surprising how
little sleep the human organism can subsist
on. For live years I managed with not more
than two hours a day, with frequent periods
of two or three days without any sleep at
all. In the initial stages I was badly fright-
ened. Then I read somewhere that to lie
quiescent for eight hours had the same re-
cuperating effect as four hours’ sound sleep.
I tried this method, and although always
in a highly nervous state, I lived an active
life, both physically and mentally. The con-
dition gradually disappeared, but it had an
aftermath in a headache which always super-
vened on a good night’s rest. This also went
the way of the insomnia, the only relic of
which is an abnormal sensitiveness to noises
which are preventible, such as somebody
else’s loud-speaker or motor-car. I coun-
tered this by moving to a house entirely
surrounded by Nature. The opossums and
the birds kick up just as much row as the
human beings in a crowded suburb, but they
leave me quite calm, because they are out
of my control. I recommend my case to
sufferers who regard their condition as
incurable.
“P.X.”: Thirty gaiters, meeting in Syd-
ney, have, with the help of the laity, been
hammering out a new Constitution for “the
Church of England in Australia.” It grew
up without one and as part of the State. To
begin with, the Bishop of Calcutta had juris-
diction in N. S. Wales ; but he took little
interest in the new convict camp. A vague
idea wanders around that Sam Marsden was
the first C. of E. clergyman in these parts ;
actually Richard Johnston beat him by six
years. But Johnston was not the sort of man
to make much impression on early Sydney,
and, though he came with the B’irst Fleet
(1788), it wasn’t till 1791 the first service
was held of which there is any record—in
a carpenter’s shop at Parramatta. Like most
people who were “free,” Johnston was given
a bit of land to potter around on: you can
find it on quaintly-named Kissing Point-road
which meanders out from Parramatta through
Dundas —still one of the most beautiful spots
around Sydney. Johnston planted a vine-
yard there; and that recalls the first arch-
deacon of Sydney. His name was Scott, and
he had been a wine merchant; but he came
to Australia as secretary to his friend John
Thomas Bigge when that gentleman was sent
as a Commissioner to inquire into the goings-
on in the new colony. They returned to Eng-
land together in 1821, and soon afterwards
the ex-wine merchant joined the church.
Within three years he was Archdeacon of
N. S. Wales with a salary of £2OOO a year
and a seat in the Governor’s Council. His
first “archdiaconal visitation” was held in
June 1825; there wasn’t another till Septem-
ber, 1827, and you get a hint as to how the
archdeacon at £2OOO a year was viewed in
the fact that “the clergy were ordered by
the Governor to attend.” Then Scott threw
it in, and Broughton, afterwards first bishop,
was appointed in his stead —“Bishop of Aus-
tralia,” by the way, he was.
“Jeviel”: “Boomi” imagines that “preju-
dice against parachute practice and the
wearing of parachute-packs” (B. 5/10/’32).
In military flying nobody, from a wing-com-
mander to a visiting politician, leaves the
ground in an R.A.A.F. machine without a
parachute. As to civil flying there is no pre-
judice ; the only deterrent is the expense.
To equip one Fokker monoplane with para-
chutes for its two pilots and eight passen-
gers would cost over £5OO. The private flyer
also hesitates to invest in such a costly appli-
ance, knowing well that most accidents occur
close to the ground. “Boomi” declares that
a parachute escape from a cabin-type ’plane
is impracticable. At the last Hendon pageant
batches of airmen parachuted from cabin-
fuselage R.A.F. machines; any parachutist
will tell you that it is much easier to step
through a door in the side of the fuselage
than to lever yourself out of a cockpit with
a parachute.
o * * *
“Norbell”: Even in this country you must
not lightly venture to call foxhounds “dogs”
(B. 12/10/’32). I was sent down to Cran-
bourne to chronicle the opening of the Mel-
bourne hunting season for a daily paper.
There was no one about except a gloomy
youth,. and I asked him whether the dogs
were out. “Don’t call ’em ‘dogs’,” he snapped
at me, “they ain’t dogs.” The kennel manager
came along, “Take a tip from me,” he said;
“don’t call ’em ‘dogs’. They’re hounds.”
Everyone I met had the same advice to offer
—“ln that word ‘ ’anting’, wot a ramifica-
tion of knowledge is compressed!” as Mr.
Jorrocks said. As I bade goodbye to the
secretary he remarked, “By the way, if you
are writing anything about the pack, be
careful not to call the hounds ‘dogs.’” I
promised.
A HOUSE IS CLEARED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the N.S.W. Leg. Council last week the sug-
gestion was made that a time limit should be im-
posed on counsel addressing the House. It was
pointed out that Mr. Piddington, Iv.C., had spoken
for three hours on the Married Women Teachers’
Bill and that his audience had dwindled to eight
members before he concluded.”
He scanned the crowded benches o’er,
Expectant, hushed, observant;
His head was packed with legal lore
And logic keen and fervent.
No whisper woke the talking shop, •
The House of light and leading;
You might have heard a needle drop,
When Piddo started pleading.
Men sat absorbed in every seat ;
It seemed the firm conviction
Here’d be an oratoric treat,
A feast of cultured diction.
No shuffling feet the silence stirred;
All ears were all audition,
Lest they should miss one precious word
Or cogent proposition.
From history arguments were drawn,
From textbooks rulings rifled—-
Till, now and then, you caught a yawn
Inadequately stifled.
And when to flights of fancy rare
The speaker soon was soaring,
There stole upon the ambient air
The gentle sounds of snoring.
And on and on the slow clock swept,
Eyes ever to it turning,
And on inexorably swept
The flow of law and learning,
As down some fierce volcano’s side
There streams the lava torrid,
Till many a stalwart tribune sighed
And mopped his fevered forehead.
One hour has gone—two hours have sped—•
And layer still on layer
Of syllogisms still he spread.
Was ever such a stayer?
And now, in furtive twos and threes,
By rolling rhetoric routed,
They melted off, the M.L.C.’s.
And still —yes, still he spouted.
They left their posts like recreants base,
Abandoning resistance.
Ah! deem not that it’s always pace
That kills —it’s sometimes distance.
CAUSE ENOUGH.
GRETA (discussing weddings): “What annoys me, dear, is that the
bride is always, described as blushing. What rot!”
JOAN: “No, it isn’t, darling—when you remember what the usual
bridegroom looks like.”
Strong men who’d walloped Turks and Huns,
From Pozieres to Megiddo,
Threw up their hands before the guns,
The verbal guns of Piddo.
Three hours! The end is surely near.
He’s reached his peroration.
But what a scene around of drear
And aching desolation!
The points he’s made he stacks in piles,
Incisive still and stolid.
But cruel gaps are in the files
That erst were packed and solid.
Where have they flown, these downy birds?
Whither’s the mob departed
That looked like hanging on his words
Till he was fairly started?
Bar-wards, belike, some drifted straight,
Or filled the library, reading;
But in the storied hall of State,
The stirring shrine of high debate,
Of full five-score were left but eight
When Piddo finished pleading!
n;s.w.
T. THE R.


“Lord Luvus”: The property sense is an
instinct with the Anglo-Saxon. Recently I
purposed erecting a sort of pergola arrange-
ment over a garden path to train roses on.
In order to preserve the symmetry of the
structure about ISin. of board would have
had to project over the fence of my neighbor,
an inoffensive, God-fearing and expansive sort
of person. I mentioned my scheme to him.
Immediately his friendly mood changed,
and he stiffly asked me to defer operations
for a day or two. I pressed him for a
reason, and he finally confessed that he
wanted to consult his lawyer; he thought he
IT WASN’T A MUSICAL EVENING, ANYHOW.
“Did the Earl you had to dinner bring his coronet with him?”
“No, I didn’t even know he could play one.”
had heard of similar cases before and he
fancied that my 18in. of board would give
me rights and privileges over the garden
soil beneath it. A couple of days later he
greeted me over the fence and said it would
he all right; I could go ahead, but I must
write a letter to him guaranteeing I would
remove the proposed projection if and when
called upon to do so. In the meantime,
however, I had altered the design of the
pergola and made it conform to our respec-
tive boundaries.
* * * *
“Lex”: The International Law Associa-
tion, which conferred at Oxford recently
under the chairmanship of Lord Blanes-
burgh, tackled one of the most difficult pro-
blems of its kind in existence —that of check-
ing “too easy divorce.” Divorce is getting
easier and easier in most countries, but a
residue remains for whom it isn’t easy
enough. Most of them are parties to ruined
marriages with vindictive spouses who won’t
turn them loose. Hence Reno. “Leading
international lawyers,” says a Conference
report, “have expressed the opinion that all
Reno divorces are void”; yet they are
churned out by the thousand every year, a
pathetic tribute to mankind’s yearning for
the cloak of respectability, however tat-
tered. Mexican, Dutch and Paris divorces
“are also fraudulent to a greater or less
degree.” The difficulty in the way of stop-
ping them is economic. They represent to
the places where they flourish what the surf
does to Bondi or the Casino to Monte Carlo.
They are tourist-getters. Imagine what
Randwick, Kensington and Mascot will be
when the inevitable time comes for shifting
Sydney’s racecourses into the country, and
you get an idea of the desolation that will
befall Reno if it ever goes out of the quick-
divorce business. Some English lawyers
favor prosecuting those who remarry after
CHANGE FOR THE WORSE.
MRS. B.: “You have no idea what I go through when you are snoring.”
MR. B. : “I soon find out when I check over my change.”
Reno divorces as bigamists; American law-
yers (barring a few R.C’s.) don’t. But all,
British, European and American alike, agree
that unless something is done, and soon, the
world’s Renos will steadily increase in
number.
* * $ sfc
“Forceps”: There are compensations for
being an orphan and brought up in a State
or a charitable institution; one of them is
that you start on the serious business of life
with much better teeth than you probably
would have had
otherwise. Com-
prehensive tests
have been taken
in W estralia and
they leave no
possible doubt
that orphanage
children have a
distinct advant-
age in this re-
spect over out-
side ones. • And
it isn’t because they
have more regular and
systematic dental atten-
tion ; the actual figures
show that they really
require less attention,
because 'of their more
hygienic diet. Institu-
tion children, it is
pointed out by the
senior Government den-
tist, have only rare
opportunities of eating
lollies and sweets ; their
meals are plain and
wholesome, and there is
no eating between meals
or before bedtime. Of
329 orphanage children
examined, mostly under
14, 181 had no decayed
teeth; in the same
number of State-school
children, the clean bill
went to only 40.
* #
“Adel”: S. Aus. has
cut a little more off its
liquor bill, which has
been going down stead-
ily since the boom year
1926-27, when it came
to a trifle over three
millions sterling, or £5
9s. 4d. a head. Last
year’s figure was only
£3 2s. 9d. Beer flowed
rather less freely than
in 1930-31, coming
down to just under six
gallons a head. Strange
to say, spirits had big-
ger figures than last year. But then S. Aus.
brandy is very good, and Australian whisky
is growing in popularity.
* * * *
“IX”: The figures for deaths from motor
accidents (1931) issued this month by the
N. S. Wales Bureau of Statistics confirm
every conclusion I have arrived at independ-
ently, as a motorist, on the subject of motor-
bikists. Licenses of all kinds decreased by
9 per cent, (owing, of course, to the slump) ;
motor-car dejfths decreased by 26.7 per cent.,
motor-bike deaths by only 10 per cent.
Looking at it from another angle, “the
number of deaths was 3.5 per 1000 motor-
cycles registered, and 1.2 per 1000 of other
motor vehicles.” The only thing to be said
in favor of bikists is that they are less
lethal to pedestrians than they might be. Only
16.7 p.c. of their year’s bag of corpses con-
sisted of people on foot. Collisions accounted
for 66.7 p.c. The age-classes of the pedestrians
killed by bikists aren’t given, but it is safe to
say that a large majority were children.
Bikists are known in the industrial suburbs
as “mothers’ banes”; they are the greatest-
known street menace to children. A vivid pic-
ture emerges from the bald departmental
figures of what may be called a composite
bikist —an irresponsible lad whizzing vain-
gloriously through a crowded street and
bringing his race for fame to an end, usually
by landing head-on against a car, more
rarely by dashing into a bevy of small chil-
dren. A rigorously-enforced speed-limit for
all inhabited areas is the only cure for him.
“Bill O’C.”: Upon the apparently dis-
puted point (B. 5/10/’32) whether the typi-
cal English university accent with its elided
letter “r” and its vowel “a,” reduced in
status to “e,” is less audible than, say, the
educated American speech, I apply the arbi-
trament of a partially-deaf man, and say
there is no comparison. Half the trouble
of dull ears is with speech that trails off
into slurred and enfeebled vowels in place
of consonants. Travelling round the earth
a few years ago, I sat under many public
speakers, cultured Americans and Britons.
I rarely had trouble in following the former;
with all their peculiarities their speech is
clear-cut, with full value given to all con-
sonants. With the latter, and in particular
an Australian professor of English literature
(Oxford-trained) and a dyed-in-the-wool
British professor of the same faculty, I was
in a constant fog of misunderstanding. They
both talked about the “lit’racha of Shake-
spya,” “ah mothah countray” and “the
Empiah of luhning” (learning), but only the
fact of these expressions being well-worn
cliches made them intelligible. If anyone
doubts my experience let him make a note
of all the words a deafish man asks him to
repeat. By the way, Americans don’t “roll”
their “r’s” as alleged; they merely pro-
nounce them well back on the palate, just
as their forebears, from whom they got the
habit, do to this day in south-western Eng-
land. It’s a dashed good habit, too, and my
only wish is that Oxford and Cambridge
would acquire it.
“Hillite”: There was nothing Australian
about the people whom “Ida D.” (B.
12/10/’32) heard pronouncing “camp”
“cemp.” They were either (1) bogus-genteel
English visitors, (2) Maorilanders, or (3)
Australians masquerading as (1). This
mincing form of pronunciation may be heard
among shop-assistants in the West End of
London, but it is jeered at outside their
dormitory suburbs. St. John Ervine derided
it at some length in the “Observer” a few
years ago. The Australian accent is hearty
and full-mouthed-—“Orstrylyun,” as they say
in Maoriland. Beef that out, and you get
the explanation of why it is so easy to hear
on the movies. Our politicians with fairly
strong Australian accents (Lyons, Scullin
and Gullett, for example) are more audible
on the < screen than English politicians like
Churchill and Chamberlain, and very much
more so than a good many English talkie
actors. ; More audible not only to us but
to English listeners. People who pronounce
words like “camp” “cemp” are inaudible, in
common with all others who talk through
pursed lips.
THE SUPPORT.
“I suppose Harriet’s quite depressed now her husband’s had to go
away on a business trip?”
“She may be, but from what I know of Harriet she’ll boy herself
up in some way.”
“X.S.”: When a householder allows a
criminal he has caught in the act to go
free on the stage, the screen or in fiction,
some such reason as these are generally
advanced. The thief was a friend of the house-
holder’s boyhood days, or he wad in the same
battalion in France, or he is the father of a
child on whom the householder (a doctor)
has just operated, or he is a victim of econo-
mic necessity, or he was the householder’s
wife’s first sweetheart. A Geelong resident
who found two burglars ransacking his
house, overpowered them and then set them
free, gave a different explanation for his
action to the astonished policeman who in-
vestigated tlie outrage. He said that he
had recently been compelled to serve for five
days on a jury, and had suffered so much
loss of time and physical discomfort that
he had sworn never to do anything that
might result in other citizens having to go
through the same experience.
* * *
“Gargantua” : How many Australians have
eaten sauerkraut, or even know what it is?
I am moved to the inquiry on reading that
John Bredemes, of Minnesota (U.S.A.), has
retained his world’s championship as a
devourer of this food after a hard battle with
t.he challenger. The latter, a
man named Whitford, equalled
Bredemes’ non-stop run of 141 b.
of sauerkraut, 61b. of sausages
and 36 buns; but the judges,
called on for a decision, gave it
in favor of the champion be-
cause of the superiority of his
table manners. When one con-
siders that sauerkraut is just
raw cabbage sliced dowui be-
tween layers of salt and allowed
co ferment until it is ready to bite the hand
that fed it, the magnitude of the feat may
bo estimated.
* * *
“Culex”: Those references to the perse-
cution of the late Sir Ronald Ross by
officialdom (B. 28/9/’32) are a little over-
stressed. Ross was put on to' his job of
malaria-hunting on the recommendation of
Munson by the Colonial Office itself, and
even the bitterest critics of that institution
would hardly argue that it set to work to
nullify the efforts of the man it had speci-
ally appointed to the task. In truth Boss
was a difficult person. In many ways his
bickerings recall the story of Sir David Baird.
As an ensign Baird was one of those Euro-
peans confined in the Black Hole of Calcutta,
and later it was announced that he had
been marched up country chained to an-
other unfortunate. When the news was re-
ceived his mother and sisters wept, but his
old grandam remained unmoved. “Art l ye
no greetin’ for oor Davie?” she was asked
indignantly. “If Ah’m gaun tae greet for
anyyin,” was the reply, “ ’twill be for tin;
puir deevil that’s ehainit tae oor Davie.”
Ross, by the way, made his famous dis-
covery, not in India, but on the West Coast
of Africa.
* * * *
“Baffled” : From a London cable:—
A thousand crates of frozen turkeys, each con-
taining five birds, is the latest feature of the Aus-
tralian bid for the Christmas trade in London. The
birds will be sold at 10id. a pound.
So a 91b. turkey might have been profitably
sold for - Bs. ■ in an Australian / city—pea-,
haps, considering what it costs to pack,
freeze, ship to England, unpack, unfreeze
and market a turkey in London, for 7s. or
less. But I have never been able to buy an
eatable turkey within a mile of the Sydney
markets for less than Is. 2d. a pound, and
usually the price has been more. Exchange,
you say? Well, the other day I took a
smallish car to a big refurbishing firm, and
was told that merely to take the paint and
duco off would cost £6 10s. The quote for
the completed job was £l6. So I left. A
few streets away a firm offered to
take the paint and duco off for £3 10s.,
and do the whole job for £B. What
the explanation of this kind of thing may
be I don’t know, but what I do know is
that it can be seen in operation everywhere,
and that it is keeping an enormous amount
of money locked up which ought to be in
circulation. Australians rather liked being
over-charged in the spacious boom days;
it flattered their pride. Now the moment
a trader “opens his mouth,” as the saying
goes, they button up their pockets.
* * * #
“Snapper Point”: If the Melbourne beach-
side councils presently have all bathers
stark-naked, it will simply be the logical
extension of the law of competition. When
the Bumbles of one council intimate that
they view with horror the growing license
on their beaches and re-enact the sumptuary
laws governing deportment amongst bathers,
another council further along the foreshore
broadcasts the information that its inspectors
are reasonable men, inspired by a broader
humanity. There is immediately a falling-
off in attendances on the beach of Council
A and a big increase of backless costumes
on the beach of Council B. The shop-
keepers and cinema entrepreneurs of Coun-
cil A approach their representatives and
deluge them with reproaches. Council A
then hastens to explain that all its
inspectors suffer from acute myopia. Not
to be outdone, Council B announces that
as soon as its moral guardians get on to
a beach _ they are affected with sand blind-
ness which prevents them seeing any object
lying on the beach larger than a lemonade-
bottle. This process will probably go on
until the Government steps in and appoints
someone like Edgar, M.L.C., beach dictator.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are always plenty of topics, patent
and manifest,
That one may approach with at least a show
of intelligent interest.
From the Douglas credit system to the cul-
ture of bees or trout,
I deem it no great matter what folk wrangle
and wangle about.
But one thing’s getting on my nerves, it
wearies me heart and soul:
This ballyhoo about Bradman and the bad-
gered Board of Control.
From Ottawa down to Gandhi you’ll hear
brisk discussion range;
From the odds for the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups it veers to the rate of
exchange.
It strays from The Granites’ hidden gold,
and all therein implied,
To gunners mowing the emus down on the
West Australian side.
But soon or late you know full well tha
the ball of talk will roll
Away to the chances Bradman has of bucl
ing the Board of Control.
In trams and in trains it’s all the same; in
offices and clubs •
They argue the pros and stress the cons,
they hammer them out in pubs.
And a man from Mars, were he here, migh
think that a nation’s fate were at stake,
On something else than a cricket field, by
the hullabaloo they make.
All other topics it knocks kite-high, from
disarmament to the dole,
And the Lord knows who will carry the day
and who will ,be left in the hole.
But, oh! it’s enough to make the iron cat
into a fellow’s soul;
The case (part-heard) of the player-writer
versus the Board of Control.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


a uniquE
present for
FRIENDS OVERSEAS
This year send something different,
a gift that will really be appreciated
and one that is typically Australian.
Mulga Wood Ornaments are made
from the Desert Acacia, which is
magnificently polished and beauti-
fully grained in contrasting colors
of brown and yellow. Vertical or
Hound Clocks, 25/-; Branch Clocks,
32/6; Boomerang Clocks, 37/6.
Book-ends, 10/6, 18/6 and 22/6.
Real Bark Bases. We will pack and
post overseas. Write for particulars
or send order to
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 O
£13,778,025 0 O
DITCCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J, R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, *3.0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
NOW ON SALE.
The new spirit of confidence.
Will it carry prices much
further?
What about reaction?
The valuation of securities.
Great care now needed.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the October issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIt ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Westralia is going to do without an im-
ported Governor for a while longer; C.-J.
Northmore will carry on for another year.
H’e is entitled to half the Gov.’s screw, but
declines to take more than comes to him as
Chief Justice. Northmore and Walter Kings-
mill, lately President of the Senate, were
contemporaries at St. Peter’s College in
Adelaide 50 years ago.
Only the other month Coolgardie (W.A.)
was celebrating the 40th anniversary of its
discovery by Arthur Bayley and William
Ford. Bayley died in 1896, still a young
man; his partner, Ford, was an octo-
genarian when he passed out last Sunday
at Chatswood (Sydney), where he had lived
in retirement for many years. Bayley had
been a lucky digger on the Murchison when
lie and Ford “teamed up” in Perth and pre-
sently struck out eastward from Southern
Cross into new country; it was in July, 1892,
that Ford specked the first nugget at Cool-
gardie. The pair had dollied a few hundred
ounces before they pegged out the claim •
that was to bring goldseekers from all over
the world to Westralia and to lead to the
opening up of the Golden Mile. Ford stayed
to guard the claim; Bayley returned with
the gold to the Cross to secure the ground.
William Ford always retained a keen in-
terest in gold discoveries, the recent finds
at The Granites included.
There was an aldermanic row when Coun-
cillor Gengoult Smith was elected for his
first term as Mayor of Melbourne. This
year the hour-candle was allowed to gutter
itself out without disturbance. The re-elected
Lud Mayor has discharged his office with
exemplary zeal, and his public oratory, while
not profound, has been a model of elocu-
tionary perfection.
H. P. Zwar, who represents Heidelberg in
Vic. Assembly, was a strong Conscrip-
tionist and took the platform for Billy
Hughes during the first cam-
paign. Later Billy’s Government disfran-
chised Australians of German descent under
the War Precautions Act, and Zwar was one
H. P. ZWAR, M.L.A. for Heidelberg (Vic).
of the slaughtered innocents. He is a
leather manufacturer, and has been Mayor
of the industrial suburb of Preston several
times.
Charles Douglas Richardson, dead in Mel-
bourne at 79, was in the front rank as a
sculptor and painter. For years he was
president of the Victorian Artists’ Society,
and examples of his work, always careful
and thorough, are to be found in the Mel-
bourne National Gallery, at Bendigo and in
at least two S. Aus. war memorials. A
Londoner by birth, he came to Australia as
a child, and returned to England as a young
man for six years’ study at the Royal
Academy. He came back to settle in Mel-
bourne over 40 years ago. The sculptor-
painter married in 1914 Margaret Basker-
ville, also a sculptor, with whose works Mel-
bourne is dotted —the Edith Oavell Memorial
in St. Kilda-road is one of them. She pre-
deceased her husband by tivo years.
Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide, had an
S4th birthday party last Sunday. He is still
wonderfully vigorous, and, though he sold the
“Advertiser” to a eo. a few years ago, still
shares in the control of it and spends most
of his night in his old office. A great thing
came to him during the past year—he was
elected president of the Royal Institution of
Cornwall, an honor never previously con-
ferred on an overseas Cornifehman. Actually
he was born in London, but he belongs to a
very old Cornish family.
As Opposition whip in the last N.S.W.
Parliament, Jack Dunningham contributed
many interjections, relevant and otherwise.
Having been a hard worker he was made
Minister for Labor when his friends got
back, and he has since lived up to his repu-
tation. As boys, he and Cleary were Sunday-
school mates. Dunningham went racing,
Cleary went into a brewery; then one took
DUNNINGHAM, N.S.W. Minister for
Labor.
to politics, and the other became Chief Rail-
way Commissioner. At Randwick Dunning-
ham was an alderman for nearly 20 years
and Mayor for a while: it was he who induced
the Randwick and Kensington clubs to spend
a few hundreds and throw portion of their
grounds open to girls’ sports clubs. He has
been connected with football, cricket, surfing,
tennis and most other sporting clubs; has
been a city mercer, a bookmaker, treasurer
of Tattersall’s. and a church organist; and
lie and General Bertie Lloyd are supposed
to be the best after-dinner and smoke-night
speakers in the House.
J. B. Gondlift'e, who used to be in the
Census Office in Maoriland and afterwards
was Professor of Economics at Canterbury
College, is these days a person of tonnage on
the League of Nations’ statistical staff at
Geneva; it was he who wrote the league’s
“World Economic Survey” for 1931-32, a
tremendous volume published lately. Cond-
liffe, who was bora at Melbourne 40 years
back, got most of his education in Maori-
land, though he topped off at Cambridge. His
“New Zealand in the Making” is the best
modern review of social development in the
Dominion.
Agent-Generals’ tenure of their jobs grows
more and more shaky, but William Angwin,
the Cornisliman, who has already repre-
sented Westralia for five years in London,
is on a better wicket than most, Premier
Mitchell having announced that the office
will be maintained. Angwin was West-
ralia’s first Labor A.-G., and his political
opponents extended his term by a year, Wil-
liam being the sort of Laborite who makes
no personal enemies. So that, if the pen-
dulum should swing Labor back to office
again next March, he will have a good
sporting chance of a second term.
Daniel McAlpine, who died at Leitchville
(Vic.) last week, aged 83, was Australia’s
first plant pathologist. He was born in
Ayrshire, studied in London under Huxley,
and lectured on biology and botany at Edin-
burgh until Melbourne University (and later
the Victorian Department of Agriculture)
secured him. That was in the ’eighties, and
no savant has done more valuable work
here. His researches gave Australia some
of her most prolific rust-resisting wheats,
and he was a supreme authority on apples
and preventives against the insidious bitter
pit. He published numerous books, pam-
phlets and monographs on the subjects
wherein he specialised.
James Guy, who moves up into the Federal
Ministry (in which the Speck never before
had more than one representative), obviously
owes more to his old association with Lyons
tnan to any brilliancy of his own. He was
bora at Launceston close on 42 years ago,
and Labor politics naturally had an attrac-
tion for him, his father having been a
Senator. Like many another Labor stal-
wart Guy began as a union secretary; he
won the Bass seat in the Assembly when he
was only 25, and held it for 13 years. He
was Chief Sec. in Lyons’s first State Cabinet
(1923-24), and returned to the same job
under the same chief in 1924-28, during
which period he was once acting Premier for
six months. When Labor went out of office
at Hobart, the thoughts of Lyons and Guy
turned simultaneously to Canberra; Wilmot
and Bass respectively obliged the pair by
sending them to the House of Reps, in 19-9.
Lyons stepped straight into the Scullin
Ministry, and now that he has a free hand
in Cabinet-making he has pulled his old ott-
sider up after him.
D. P. McGuire, son of a former S.A. Rail-
way Commissioner, who, after doing bril-
liantly at Adelaide Uni., went off to London
with a bundle of verse and other MSS., is
back for six months and has broadcast his
willingness to guide other Australians into
print in London. McGuire, who has con-
tinued his verse-writing to The Bulletin,
has become a steady contributor to most ot
the English literary papers, has had four
novels published in two years, _ with two
more to appear in the next English spring,
and his poetry has been translated into halt
a dozen or more European languages.
Few men had seen the inside of so many
Australian newspaper offices in the last quar-
ter of a century as Michael J. Shanahan, who
died in Sydney Hospital on Sunday after a
very brief illness. East and West “Mick's"
cheery personality was well known ; he started
as a reporter on a Tas. daily, and, after a
period with the Kalgoorlie (W.A.) “Sun,
was for years on Melbourne and _ Sydney
dailies. When the Sydney “Daily Mail” (now
the “Labor Daily”) was started ten years ago
Shanahan was its first editor; he moved
out to become editor-in-chief of “Truth.” and
thence to the Sydney “Sunday Times,” with
which he was connected unfi] that paper
gave up the struggle. A host of pressmen
who have worked with Mick Shanahan will
read with regret of his early death —he was
not out of his forties.
Major-General W. A. Coxen has been
appointed director, and Major W. T. Conder
organiser, of Victoria’s, and, incidentally,
Melbourne’s centenary celebrations. Coxen
was formerly chief of the general staff of the
Aus. military forces, and Conder has handled
many things, from the governorship of Pent-
ridge to the management of a radio broad-
casting company.
Thomas Moore, just dead at 84, was a
Dubbo (N.S.W.) district pioneer and father
of 18 children —all but three still living. Six
of his sons and four sons-in-law served with
the A.1.F., and every one returned.
Memories of Henry Parkes were revived
by the death of Lily Faulconbridge Parkes,
at Cremorne (Sydney), last week. A daugh-
ter by the first marriage of the man who
was five times Premier of N. S. Wales, she
was a child of ten when her father formed
his first Ministry 60 years ago. She followed
the occupation of music-teacher, and in her
leisure time was a keen conchologist.
James Trevilly Grose, g.m. of the National
Bank of N.Z. and chairman of the M.L.
Associated Banks, was born in Q’land of
Cornish stock. He started his banking
career in 1888, joining the Wales staff at
Townsville, and in 21 yeans climbed to
the rank of inspector. He was financial
secretary to the Commonwealth Defence
Dept, on the Board of Business Administra-
tion during the Great War. The National
acquired him four years ago, a few months
J. T. GROSE, chairman of N.Z. Associated
Banks.
after he had been appointed M.L. inspector
for the Wales. Peterson’s drawing depicts
the sort of look Grose gives to people who
want to bump the M.L. exchange rate sky-
ward—it’s a matter on which he holds very
strong opinions. When not steering the
National and combating the heresies of Prof
Copland and of Davidson, g.m. of the Wales,
he plays golf.
P. H. Stewart, the new Minister of Com-
merce, used to have a humble job on the
N.S.W. railways, and he might have re-
mained in it if he had not been shrewd
enough to foresee the possibilities of the
motor-’bus. He resigned, bought a second-
hand conveyance, and became the pioneer
of a new era in metropolitan trans-
port with a one-’bus service from Banks-
town to the city. Within 10 years
he was the controller of 400 ’buses, and
F. H. STEWART, new Federal Minister.
through it al] he maintained a reputation of
one of the fairest and most generous of
employers and a man who never forgot the
responsibilities of wealth. He entered
Federal polities only last December by win-
ning the Parramatta seat from Labor, but
his business capacity, broad outlook and
record of unostentatious public service should
make Stewart an asset to any Cabinet.
Died in London last week, Harold David-
son, younger brother of A. C. Davidson,
general manager of the Bank of N.S.W.
Both were born in Brisbane, where then-
father was local manager of the same bank,
but the younger one’s tastes didn’t run in
the direction of finance; he went to Lon-
don and studied at the Royal College of
Music and. after graduating, held a respon-
sible position with a well-known firm of
musical publishers, later joining the staff of
the British Broadcasting Commission. He
had some success as a composer, too.
Among the six foreign captains decorated
with the Red Ribbon medal, the highest
honor in the gift of the Japanese Govern-
ment, for services during the Yokohama
earthquake is Captain A. L. Gordon, master
of the Blue Funnel Memnon, and well known
in Australia. By a pure coincidence, Cap-
tain Gordon was in Yokohama on the ninth
anniversary of the disaster, and received his
decoration personally.
Neville Montagu, a Sydney solicitor, had
a better excuse than most when he was
charged the other day with not having paid
his income tax: blind in one eye, and with
not much sight left in the other, he passed
office work over to his partner; and between
the two stools the Commissioner of Taxa-
tion crashed. Neville, who is one of the
oldest inhabitants of the profession, has
drawn more clients from Poverty Point than
any other lawyer in, Australia. ITis dad ran
Sydney “Punch” in the very long ago—so
long ago that before The Bulletin was
bom, the late William Macleod took his very
early drawings there. “Punch” specialised
in theatrical and musical, gossip, so son
Neville, when he grew up to be a lawyer,
found a connection x-eady made.
Kennedy Harris, an M.L.C. of Northern
Rhodesia —-he was re-elected the other day
—is an ex-A.I.F. man. He enlisted from
Gladstone (Q.) and saw service with the
26th Battalion at Gallipoli, where lie was
wounded and discharged. After returning
to Australia he left for London University,
where he studied engineering, and presently
obtained an appointment in South Africa.
A brother, A. R- Harris, is on the Brisbane
“Daily Standard.”
Sir Everard im Tliurn, whose death in
England at 80 is reported, was an English-
man in spite of his German name, and
entered the Colonial Office after going
through Marlborough and Oxford. Australians
will best remember him as Governor in Fiji
and High Commissioner of the Western
Pacific, a job he held from 1904 to 1910.
Apart from his Colonial Office work he
made a high reputation as an explorer—
especially in British Guiana —and anthro-
pologist.
Maoriland’s new Commissioner of Taxes,
C. E. Howland, is a Dunedin native, still
in his early fifties. He entered the civil
service and rose steadily. He had been
deputy to ex-Gommissioner Gumming for
some years.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Ghosts”
Her Majesty’s “Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King’s “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
——-
Like most rebels against romanticism
Ibsen represented life as being a lot uglier
than it really is, but he may readily be for-
given, for he wrote honestly; and, unlike
Shaw, whom he so greatly influenced, he never
pretended to answer completely the questions
he raised. In “Ghosts,” which is being per-
formed by the Sybil Thorndike Co. at Sydney
Royal, there is a strange mingling of realism
and mysticism—it might be called a dream-
like quality, for there are dreams as logical
as they are vivid. This quality is very com-
pletely maintained by Mr. and Mrs. Casson
and their son Christopher—an ideal casting
for Pastor Manders, Mrs Alving and Oswald.
Bruce Winston’s Jacob Engstrand is comic
Cockney—too comic to be convincing—but
the comedy is a welcome ray of brightness in
a welter of gloom. Hilda Davies as Regina,
ghost of a mother who took the wrong turn-
ing, plays a difficult part with skill.
Dame Thorndike’s Mrs. Alving differs con-
siderably from the traditional conception of
the part. The widow’s resentment against
her dead husband, expressed in unequivocal
language in the first act, is robbed of the
emphasis the lines seem intended to convey.
It is made to seem as though time and much
reflection had made the lady more than a
little philosophical over what she still con-
siders her martyrdom. This paves the way
naturally for her change of view in the
second act. Seeing in the son she adores
the husband she detested, she immediately
marshals strong excuses for the latter. The
great moment in the play—one of those very
rare instances when the stage illusion tran-
scends reality and an electric thrill vibrates
the house—occurs at the end of the first act,
when Mrs. Alving first has reason to suspect
that her spouse, dead ten years, isn’t as
deeply interred as he ought to be, but has
cropped up in his son. Her half-whispered
“Ghosts. .. .ghosts!” as she hears Oswald
larking with Regina in the room where long
ago she heard Oswald’s (and Regina’s)
father chucking Regina’s mother under the
chin, soars to the mountain peaks of drama.
The rest of the play, which deals mostly
with the ravings of Oswald in the penulti-
mate stages of G.P.1., gives to Christopher
Casson opportunities in which he revels.
As Pastor Manders, guardian of the con-
ventional canons of morality, Lewis Casson
presents a faithful, well-understood picture.
His counsels, on Saturday night, provoked
titters from an audience which found his old-
fashioned notions of duty quaint and ad-
judged them to be hypocritical. But there
is nothing hypocritical about the Manders of
Casson, any more than there is about the
Manders of Ibsen. Audiences of 50 years
ago were shocked because the good man’s
observations provoked from Mrs. Alving and
her son retorts which sounded blasphemous.
In the meantime the realists who imitated
Ibsen have made cynics of us all.
Staging and dressing in the Royal produc-
tion are admirable. Dame Thorndike wears
a bustle with dignity, and that’s a feat.
# * *
In “The Yeomen of the Guard,” released by
the Williamsonians at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday, Gilbert and Sullivan approached
the threshold of grand opera, rang the
bell, with apparent resolution and then
bolted for the shrubbery l to poke their
tongues out at the inmate of the residence.
They shared the funk of the normal English-
man of their day when confronted by a real
emotion. Their humor is the incurable flip-
pancy of a generation which placed good
form above everything. If you feel strongly
about a thing you mustn’t lose your temper
over it —you must be suave, and at the
worst, sarcastic. If you love you must
love with decorum. If you ha'te you must
hate in the manner of a “Punch” cartoon on
Bolshevism. This would be all right if life
were club life, and if human nature were con-
formable to the rules and regulations drawn
up by the club committee—or the regimental
colonel or the best society. But they aren’t.
This explains why G. and S. didn’t succeed
in making “The Yeomen” anything more than
an elaborate skit, despite their adroitness
and their painstaking plagiarism of Shak-
speare, especially evident in the pompous
platitudinising of Sir Richard Cholmondeley
and the punning of Jack Point. All sorts of
sinister things are threatened in the play,
but nothing really happens which has emo-
tional significance, because you know that
Gilbert is only building up a poignant situ-
ation in order to bring it down with a comic
anti-climax, while Sullivan is constructing
an imposing edifice of counterpoint and har-
mony in order to demolish' it with his
penny rattle. And how ingeniously Gilbert
fits the parts of his Meccano set together—
so cleverly that you think it is an original
creation! But when the job is done you
see it was all designed so that the Victorian
young person wouldn’t get any wrong ideas
in her head.
G. and S. were brilliant mirrors of their
age, and millions of Englishmen have been
conditioned by them. Thousands of versifiers
the Empire over write Gilbertian nonsense
about their vital emotions, and thousands of
composers shake Sullivan’s penny rattle
through pseudo-Beethovenish rhapsodies be-
cause of “The Yeomen of the Guard,” which,
in the meantime, is being excellently ren-
dered at the Royal.
Maisie Ramsay was Elsie Maynard on
Saturday, and will be such again on the
20th, while Marie Bremner will be that love-
lorn lady to-night and on Friday. Mass
Bremner ought to be a more sylphlike dancer,
but Miss Ramsay fills the role vocally. Ber-
nard Manning is a Sergeant Meryll of dis-
tinction, and Leo Darnton is a Col. Fairfax
that any girl would lose her head over.
Evelyn Gardiner makes a dignified and
beautiful Dame Carruthers, and adumbrates
the horrors of the Tower with a contralto
charged with the richest tones of the vocal
palette. John Ralston’s caricature of Shad-
bolt is an essay in frightfulness that expect-
ant mothers would be well advised to keep
away from. Ivan Menzies, the finest artist
in tiie campany, touches greatness as the
jester. The costuming is delightful, and the
chorus singing of average quality.
* * *
Concurrently with presenting modern
drama Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre
co. is building up a Shakspearean repertoire.
At Sydney Savoy on Saturday “The Mer-
chant of Venice” was given. John Gould
donned the raiment of the usurer, and although
he made a very portly Hebrew he was none
the less effective. Jean Lawson played Portia
with studied care. She showed signs of ner-
vousness at the beginning, but got on well
enough after she had found her stage legs,
finishing strongly in the court scene. Ray-
mond Bawtree, Clarence Murphy, Arthur
Lane, John Wyndham, Marie Rosenfeld,
Joyce Smith, Alfred Race and Don Hill were
the others.
¥ * *
Regular doses of talkie-gangsters have
inoculated audiences against “Broadway
Nights,” which 20 keen youngsters of Syd-
ney Rep. gambolled through last Saturday.
The types were all familiar —the rival boot-
leg czars; the puah little cabaret girl (Vir-
ginia Coyle), pursued by Czar No. 1 (Harry
Farrell) ; the not-so-puah other one (Maizie
Bell), the captive of Czar No. 2 (Thomas
Lowe) ; the detective (Gilbert Unsworth),
his hat grafted on his head, and the others.
The atmosphere of the cabaret artists’
change-room, the scene throughout, was
quickly created. Then the play recounts
the murder of one bootlegger for business
reasons, and the murder of the other for
revenge, interlarded with the efforts of a
nice boy dancer to save the puah girl. He
does, and all ends merrily. George Carden,
looking the part, was this dancer and the
night’s chief sparkle.
“Topaze,” the French play by Marcel Pag-
nol, put on by the Gregan McMahonites at
Melbourne Comedy, is a somewhat over-
drawn picture of municipal corruption in
" GHOSTS ” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Left to right, top to bottom: Bruce Winston as Jacob Engstrand who, though he says
men are but poor weak vessels, looks as if he could hold a lot; Lewis Casson
as Pastor Manders, not the sort of person to joke with; Hilda Davies as
Regina, a ghost who likes to show her ankles; Dame Thorndike as Mrs. Alving,
a lady of few illusions; Christopher Casson as that snivelling whelp Oswald
Alving, who grew his goatee in Bohemia.
a provincial town in France, where coun-
cillors are Napoleons of irregular finance,
and auditors are stone-blind, apparently.
The operations of M. Regis Castel-Bcnac,
who sells contracts for street-cleaning run-
ning into millions to semi-imbecile school-
masters, would make a Tammany alderman
feel like a piffling amateur. “Topaze” has
been adapted by Benn W. Levy, previously
noted for two or three excellent spasms of
comedy, and some of the sharpness of the
Gallic original has obviously been mislaid
in translation, but the Comedy presentation
had its amusing moments, especially a scene
in a schoolroom, where a dozen small boys
created disorder with an efficiency which
argued long practice. McMahon’s picture
of the dreamy schoolmaster, whose miracu-
lous transformation into a hard-headed ex-
tortionist strained credulity to breaking-
point, was carefully studied. The only other
figure which stood out of the long list of
actors was the municipal councillor, done
with brutal directness by Jos. Ambler.
* # *
The silver-haired Edward Goll came out
of his retirement to entertain a small audi-
ence at Melb. Assembly; Hall one night l'ast
week. If this fine pianist were suitably
advertised and lowered his standards suffi-
ciently he would fill as big a hall as many
imported virtuosi; but Goll has always had
an austere and uncompromising attitude
towards his art. The Haydn sonata No. 9,
in E flat, Beethoven’s opus 31 and three
choral preludes by Brahms and Bach were
merely hors d’ceuvres on a programme which
concluded with the immense Brahms varia-
tions on a Handel theme. In the Haydn
work Goll made the Steinway sound like a
whole orchestra and unpacked the beauties
Beethoven stored in his sonata in E flat
with a master hand. Melbourne prides itself
on its musical taste, but the best music and
the biggest crowds are not always found
there in company.
# # *
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
Well, I went to another Australian bush
drama the other night. The Dramatic Critic
took me. He said, you must hope in this
world. If you don’t, he said, you might as
well give up the struggle and order your
urn at the Creamatorium. And there is a lot
of Truth in that, I think. I mean, one
does go on ordering lemon drinks made of
real lemons, despite all previous experience,
doesn’t one? Well, we went. It was called
“Butterflies and Bees” and it was by Dr.
Cecil Tucker, and it was at the Playhouse
and the Proscenium Club played it. I sup-
pose dramatic societies live on hope, too.
Well, the Proscenium Club has my heartiest
commisserations. And I don’t blame them.
I mean, you would expect that a doctor
would know something about Life, and of the
other thing, too, when you come to think of
it. Besides, the D.C. says, there was a Rus-
sian named Chekov or something, and he
was a doctor and he wrote plays, and the
D.C. says, what he didn’t know about Life
could be written on a postage 6tamp. Well,
we went and we saw Dr. Tucker’s play, and
it was all about two Mallee farmers named
Jack Hodges and Roy Daintree, and it
seems that up in the Mallee when you owe
somebody money and he threatens to fore-
clothes on you, you think it is your fault if
you can’t pay up, so it seems people in the
Mallee are different from people in Mel-
bourne, because in Melbourne if you owe a
man money you hate him and you call him
a bloodsucker and you ask Parliament to
assist you and oblitterate him and everybody
agrees with you, except the man who lent
the money. But in the Mallee, it seems, if
you can’t pay the interest on your mortgage,
your friends who can pay their interest
come round and tell you you are a rotter and
a waster and point to themselves and say
what fine chaps they are because they work
hard and always pay their debts and that
makes you ashamed of yourself and you take
off your coat and you whale in and when
the mortgagor sees you are a Real hard
worker he says he didn’t intend to fore-
clothes on you really, but only wanted to
Try your moral stamina and he lets you
off a couple of years’ interest and you love
him more than ever.
Well, I think what Dr. Tucker doesn’t
know about Life couldn’t bo written on all
the postage stamps issued since stamps were
invented. It seems, the farmer who defaults
on his mortgage marries a girl from Mel-
bourne and she doesn’t know that there is
hot weather in the Mallee or flies or dust-
storms or even mortgages, which shows
she couldn’t ever have seen an Australian
bush drama anyhow. And another thing
she doesn’t know is that hired helps and
farm hands in the Mallee are imbeciles who
would be put in an asylum if they were
found at large in Melbourne. And another
thing she doesn’t know is that when a newly-
married woman arrives in the Mallee all the
naybors drop in and fire chunks of the
“Argus” leaders about Thrift and Putting
your Shoulder to the wheel and honoring the
Nation’s obligations and things like that at
her. And so she gets the sulks and who
wouldn’t? I mean, it wasn’t the Country
lecturing the Country but the City lecturing
the Country, as the D.C. said, really.
Well, in the next Act she has the sulks
worse than ever and the hero comes in. H’e’s
the farmer who. through hard work and deny-
ing himself radio sets and baths has paid off
his mortgage and he has got his second wind
during the interval and he is more smug
and self-satisfied than he was in the first act,
if that is possible. So his sermons on Thrift
are longer than ever and he is aided and
abetted by his Wife, who is everything a wife
ought to be to a husband who is intent on
paying off his mortgage; so the mortgagor
comes along and he tells the Bad Farmer and
his wife just how bad they are and holds
the Good Farmer and his wife up as Shining
Examples and that makes the Bad Farmer
and his wife thoroughly ashamed of them-
selves and they become Reformed Charac-
ters. Well, I think that what Dr. Ducker
doesn’t know about Life couldn’t be written
on all the stationary issued by the P. Master
General if all the writs and summonses
served on Mallee farmers were thrown in
with it. „ ,
Well, in the last Act the Good Farmer and
his wife have become so smug that they drip
self-satisfaction like an old car drips sump
oil. I mean, the stage is Positivily messy
with it. Well, it seems that the Bad Farmer
has Made Good and his Wife is now his
willing helpmate and they are both working
like Trojans to pay off the mortgage, bo
the mortgagee comes along again ana he
hasn’t been on for a long time so his lungs
are in Good Condition and he pats everybody
on the back and tells them that if the rest
of Australia was made of that Stuff there
wouldn’t ever have been any Trouble. And
he says that hard Work is the only road to
Success in Life and they all thank him
humbly. But if Dr. Lucker thinks that all
the 400,000 unemployed in this country are
unemployed because they won’t work he has
got a Nerve, that’s all. I mean, if Dr.
Hucker wasn’t a doctor and had to make his
living by writing plays he could work till he
was Blue in the Face, but he wouldn t make
a Success of Life, judging by “Bees and
Butterflies.” , _
Well, I think that Alan Nicholson, Eileen
Johnstone, Frank Timson, Eileen Ragg, Dan
Clifton, Frederick Patey and the other
members of the proscenium Club know a
good deal more about acting than the doctor
knows about human nature and I don t think
“Butterflies and Bees” ought to be allowed
to be performed in the Mallee. I mean, it
would help the New States movement.
* * *
Captain Hans Bertram, the handsome
young German flier, recounted his oo-days
odyssey of thirst, hunger, flies, mosquitoes,
nudity, despair, hope deferred and providen-
tial interposition to a packed and breath-
less house at Melbourne Town Hall last
week, and he ought to be invited to repeat
it to an Australian literary society. It would
be an object lesson in the art of graphic
description. The young man doesn’t know
enough English to be rhetorical. If he
knew more he would probably have trotted
out all the old cliches. But he didn’t once
mention the Thirst Demon, and he never
alluded to the Fire Fiend, although he had
a sensational encounter with a bush fire.
Moreover, for the information of Young
Nationalists, he stood with folded arms with-
out a single gesture, and kept his _ hearers
enthralled for two hours with a plain state-
ment of facts, only varied by occasional
references to Providence and to the. scarf
given him by his mother, to which he jointly
ascribed the preservation of the party,
though he did, not fail to give full credit
to the blacks and the worthy fathers of
the Drysdale Mission, as agents of the
Divine Mercy. Incidentally, the proceeds of
the lecture go to the mission.
¥ * *
Harold Tideman, who is leaving Adelaide
to study singing in Europe, unleashed a fine
baritone at 'his farewell concert, and will
doubtless learn while abroad to produce his
upper notes with effort less obvious. Hazel
Medland, who was in the Theatre of Youth
with the Rayner sisters, has returned to
Adelaide and is experimenting along the same
unconventional lines with local talent. Jim
Gerald, with little opposition, except from
films, runs a long season of Variety at the
Tivoli.
Listeners-in who would like to give their
souls a 12-minute bath in the music of
Strauss (Jack, who wrote the waltzes; not
Dick) and in Russian and Italian folk-songs
and choruses should tune in to 2UW on
Monday nights at 7.30. At that hour
Vacuum Oil Co. lubricates the ether with
“Viennese Nights.”
The Palette,
Sydney Publicity Club’s show of commer-
cial art at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries is
highly creditable. The commercial artist,
tliough looked down upon by the arty artists,
has to be far better equipped to stand up to
acid tests than his long-haired brother. He
must be able to draw anything, from a
pretty girl to a locomotive; he mustn’t out-
run the resources of the printer, nor make
that gentleman’s work too expensive. Syd-
ney’s designers of posters and jam labels
are up to all those requirements, and in
addition are mighty quick to seize upon any
new and effective trick with pen or brush.
Just at present Walter Jardine’s success in
suggesting all sorts of textures in black and
white by means of a sort of imitation wood-
cut technique is being so successfully imi-
tated that in some cases one has to look
twice at the signature to make sure Jar dine
didn’t do it himself. In color, however,
tastes are more catholic, and every style
known to science, ancient and modern, is
borrowed, and very intelligently borrowed,
to serve the serious business of getting some-
thing sold. There are many exhibitors, and
they arc, with but few exceptions, so very
near the front rank, if not in it, that it
isn’t practicable to assess the merits of their
work in detail. A pat on the back, how-
ever, is due to East Sydney Technical
School, whose pupils show work as good as
any in the exhibition. They have won prizes
in some of the competitions against all-
comers.
“L.H.P.” : When Gilbert Parker was
dramatic critic on “S. M. Herald” he
wrote a capital version of “Faust” for
Rignold. It opened at the old Syd-
ney Her Majesty’s on March 31, 1888.
and enjoyed a good run. Rignold was
Mephistopheles, and Kate Bishop (Mar-
guerite). Brian Darley (Faust) and
Jimmy Hazlitt (Valentine) were in the cast.
The piece was successfully revived in 1892.
Parker also adapted “Mr. Barnes of New
York” for Rignold, naming the stage ver-
sion “The Vendetta.” It was played at Her
' Majesty’s in February, 1889.


r
!
'•'V,.
ms*
m
w?
w
»
ALSO ADOPTED EXCLUSIVELY
INTERSTATE AND VICTORIAN
CHAMPIONSHIP TOURNAMENTS
1st —10th December, 1932,
AND
N.S.W. CHAMPIONSHIPS
14th —19th November, 1932
Adopted
EXCLUSIVELY
ALL TEST
MATCH ES-
AUSTRAUAv U.SA
also
AUSTRALIAN
[CHAMPIONSHIPS
b and
1 JUNIOR INTERSTATE
gl TEAMS COMPETITION
Jjjj| I7th.- 30fh. January, 1933
■
?•-; \
■
Barnet
... Tennis Balls


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends--,
Pref. Ord.f Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1926*.. 436,099 290,715 145,384 104,616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 174 p.c. Reserves.
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
3 928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 12) p.c.
1929 .. 265,535 236,159 29,376 68,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9 p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,550 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1932 .. 206,275 167,069 39,206 247,035
*lB months. tlncluding employees’ shares.
The spring of £51,979 in last year’s net earn-
ings and the lift in the div. reflect the
character of the organisation and the quality
of the control. The term began with prices
still falling, and with over a million pounds
worth of stocks on the books. Many lines
had to be quickly cleared at cut rates in
order to avoid losses, and to make room for
newer and cheaper ones which lighter purses
have now made fashionable. However, con-
ditions improved as the year advanced, and
forceful selling methods brought more people
to the big Bourke-street emporium. From
its mills at Ballarat, which have not failed
to pay a div. since they were bought 17
years ago, the co. was kept supplied with
fashion cloth, tweeds, flannels, blaukets, rugs
and underwear at manufacturers’ prices.
The Adelaide business (it used to be James
Marshall and Cos.) made its first contribu-
tion to the pool—s p.c. on 200,000 ords.,
bought at 30s. apiece in 1928 —and all out-
lets were thoroughly overhauled, of course.
Also, Rocke’s art furnishing business was
bought, including a freehold which has been
sold.
After meeting all outgoings, providing for
contingencies and paying both the pref. and
staff-partnership divs. (together £63,569),
enough remained to show 8.2 p.c. on the
£1,725.000 of ord. capital compared with
5.1. 10.9, 14.6, 15.5 and 19.5 p.c. back to
1927. So the div. was lifted a point to 6 p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
Over the last 11 years the ords. have aver-
aged a shade over 12 p.c., sweetened with
a three-for-two gift in the reconstruction of
1925, but share premiums have taken some
of the gilt off the gingerbread.
Though the past is not a reliable guide
to the future, and in addition to the outside
debt there is £655.450 of 9 p.c. pref. money
and £82,861 of 6 p.c. staff-partnership capi-
tal in front of the ords., indications are that
satisfactory distributions may be expected.
Hence the market prices the ords. at 28s. 3d.
as against 16s. 6d. a year ago. The return
at 28s. 3d. is 4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.6 p.c. should the distribution rise to 8
p.c. At 325. the prefs. return 5.6 p.c., and
their annual requirements were 31 times
covered by last year’s net earnings. The net
tangible backing is £4 2s. Bd., prefs.; 28s. 3d.,
ords.
Balance-sheet figures disclose preparations
for larger trading, and an encouraging re-
duction in the debt:—
1926. 1931. 1932
Paid capital .. £1,676,978 £2,457,586 £2,463,311
Mortgages.. .. 531,014 677,900 486,000
Sundry creditors.. 588,451 378,464 362,195
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 1,266,536 1,774,244 1,833,581
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 167,595 177,514
Shares in other cos. 180,997 487,647 467,293
Stocks .. .. 962,486 1,015,823 893,816
Debtors .. .. 233,105 253,158 262,872
Cash, etc 8,094 105,527 25,161
Thus to knock £191,900 off the mortgages,
reduce the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £16,269, add £69,256 to premises and
plant and carry an extra £9714 of book
debts, stocks were reduced by £122,008, share-
holdings by £20,354, and cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £80.366. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus (£333,653, includ-
ing stocks but not shares) improved £15,509
during the twelvemonth. The growth in the
premises item is on account of the new three-
storey warehouse, put up on the old Moffatt
freehold, bought in 1927 for about £200.000.
Three more floors are to be added and a
new nine-floor wing put up on the site of
the present men’s store early in 1933.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1925. .25,291 12) p.c. = 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926..25,347 12) „ „ 15,750 9.597 92,046
Aug., 1926..28,446 15 „ „ 18.900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927.. 28,316 12) „ „ 15,750 12.566 114,158
Aug., 1927..28,378 121 „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179.457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 12) „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb., 1929..28,603 12) p.c. = 15,760 L-
Staff fund, £2OOO .. _ j 10,753, 753 207,490
July, 1929. .24,071 22) p.c. = 28.350 203,211
Jan., 1930..29,013 15 „ ~ 18,900 1 -.-- ... ...
Staff fund. £IOOO .. j 9,113 212,327
July, 1930..22,285 12) p.c. = 15,750 8,535 218.862
Jan., 1931..21,437 12) „ „ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
July, 1931.. 16,468 9 p.c. s 11,340 6,128 231,763
Jan., 1932..19,491 9 „ „ 11,340 8.151 239,914
July, 1932..18,490 10 „ ~12,600 5,890 245,804
This co., which runs a chain of drug stores
in Sydney, occupies an unusually strong
position; large-scale buying, general effici-
ency and the hoarding of surplus earnings
have combined to set it there. For the
dozen years to the end of Jan., 1031, the
div. was kept steady at 12) p.c., sweetened
at intervals with cash bonuses, which raised
the average distribution to 15 p.c. For the
next 12 months 9 p. 4 c. was paid, despite
slump, keener competition, the growth in
taxation and cut in returns from Govern-
ment securities —these figured at no less
than £239,306 at July 31.
Though a thousand pounds less profit was
claimed for the six mouths to that date,
net earnings for the twelvemonth were 15
p.c. on capital as against 15, 20.4 and 20.8
p.c. for the three preceding years. More-
over, the outlook is less uncertain, so a
point was added to the div. for the last half,
raising it to 10 p.c. p.a.
Though several new shops have been
opened, the board has not been able to find
profitable employment in the business for all
the surplus earnings. These have been
swollen by profits on the sale of freeholds,
some of which were picked up cheap early
in this century and sold before the boom
burst. How well-ribbed the co. is financially
this comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:—
July,’29. July,’3o. July,’3l. July,’32.
Paid capital.. £252,000 £252,000 £252,000 £252,000
Liabilities .. 40,203 41,663 37,190 52,091
Premises, stock
plant, etc... 183,303 195,921 161,225 139,635
Book debts .. 163,930 159,034 158,785 151,798
Public securities 175,170 175,170 177,208 239,306
Cash, etc. .. 10,741 8,523 19,299 24,394
Shares in other
cos. .. 3,630 3,628 29,776* 21,360*
•Includes advances.
Last year’s reduction of £21,590 in the book
value of premises, stocks, plant, etc. (an
untidy entry) may have some connection
with the resumption of one of the freeholds
by the Government some IS months ago.
This, a reduction of £0987 in debtors’ bal-
ances and a growth of £14,901 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors enabled £62,098
to be added to public securities and £5095
to cash, etc. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£363,407) was
£45,305.
At July 31, Government securities and
cash alone totalled £11,700 more than paid
capital. Exactly what the board’s inten-
tions are it has not disclosed. What the
market notes is that a part return of capital
would probably benefit shareholders in more
ways than one. It therefore prices the
pound shares at 495. The return at that
figure is 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£> £ £ £
1922 .. 30,478 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 27,850
1923 .. 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2760 52.672
1924 .. 18,014 10 „ „ 12,419 2760 65,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12.419 2/60 45,174
1926 .. 19,983 10 „ „ 12.419 2750 49,988
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73.04 S
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 .. 42,000
1927 .. 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2760 43,954
1928 .. 17,801 10 „ „ 12.419 2500 46.836
1929 .. 20,690 10 „ „ 12,419 7500 47,607
1930 .. 11,747 8 „ „ 9,935 2500 46,919
1931 .. 812 5 „ „ 6,210 41,521
Trans, from contingency res., £2000.. 43,521
1932 .. 4,587 5 p.c. = 6,210 41,898
Five new Diesel engines were built as
against two in the previous term. Still,
this and other work left output woefully
short of the capabilities of the plant, which
could have coped with six or seven times
the volume of work put through. Disregard-
ing £2OOO transferred from the contingency
reserve, gross earnings (£11,724) were
£2634 better, and exes. (£7136) were £1142
lighter, leaving enough to show 3.6 p.c. on
capital as against 0.6, 9.4, 16.6, 12.3, 11.5
and 13.8 p.c. back to 1926. But finances
are snug and times needy, so the board
again took a little of what had been set
aside when circumstances were more benign
to pay 5 p.c.
Including two special bonuses, share-
holders averaged 13 p.c. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930. Also, about
£40,000 was spent on remodelling the plant,
and the improvements were written off out
of reserves that had been created for the
purpose. The new equipment is specially
designed for the construction of Diesel
engines and pulverised-coal plant, the idea
being to bridge the gap caused by the re-
stricted demand for locomotives and sugar-
mill machinery, which had been the backbone
of the business for over 20 years. Before
that mining plant and boilers had been the
co.’s mainstay. What the future holds for
the business will largely depend upon whether
the Government gives the co. the protect’on
it deserves; the Tariff Board, though it has
completed its inquiries, has not yet sub-
mitted its recommendations concerning the
duty on imported Diesel engines. Given the
necessary help in this direction, the co.’s
earning will depend upon the volume of
orders, which may be expected to grow as
conditions generally become more settled.
The co. is well equipped, financially and
otherwise, to take advantage of any oppor-
tunity that offers:—
1918. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities .. 33,890 74,756 75,584 63,696
Fixpd assets.. 47,350 24,425 33,042 33,540
Stock-in-trade 25,873 42,968 42,502 36.931
Investments .. 52,050 86,730 101,730 101,721
Completed work,
cash, debtors,
etc. .. 58,316 101,681 70,235 88,646
The year’s drop of £II,BBB in liabilities is
due to disclosure of the reserve for taxa-
tion and other contingencies (£24,840), pre-
viously lumped with sundry creditors.
Debtors’ balances (£83.597) were £20,742
heavier, but work in hand figured at only
£4805. The spring of £24.719 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£163,602) was due
to the disclosure of reserves already re-
ferred to. This surplus was equal to 265. 6d.
per share, which the market, doubtful of a
quick revival of earning capacity, prices at
17s. The return at that figure is 5.8 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 42,241 10 p.c. = 54,750 70,009
1925.. 81,065 10 „ „ 69,000 12,065 82,074
1926.. 89,090 10 „ ~ 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 111,, „ 79.350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ „ 69,000 18,019 145.440
1929.. 96,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ „ 54,000 12,625 190,457
•Half-year.
Thanks largely to the tariff and exchange,
Australian textile mills, particularly the
more efficient worsted weavers, have been
kept fairly busy during the last 12 months.
Yarra Falls paid 40 p.c. more wages than in
1931; plant had to be added to at the co.’s
own Abbotsford (Vic.) mills, while in N. S.
Wales the Globe Worsted Mills progressed
so satisfactorily, despite difficulties, that the
parent took up a further 75,000 shares,
making its holding 325,000 (up 175,000 in
two years). These mills are now very
up-to-date, the board says, but whether they
have yet contributed to the pool has not
been disclosed.
During the six months to June 30 the
co.’s Vic. plant worked full time. The tex-
tile workers’ strike, which has caused only
slight delay, came after the accounts closed.
After allowing for depreciation, etc., gross
earnings (£101,293) were £21,746 better.
Exes. (£34,668, including unspecified provi-
sion for taxation), were £6393 heavier; thus
the net result benefited by £15,353 of the
increase, reaching 7.4 p.c. on capital, as
against 5.7, 8.8, 12.6, 12.6 and 15.2 p.c. back
to 1927. So a point was added to the div.,
lifting it to 6 p.c.
The A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group ir Aus-
tralia’s biggest textile enterprise, with rami-
fications extending into all sections of the
trade. Yarra Falls turns out yarns, woollens,
worsteds, etc., A.K.M. (in which Yarra owns
50,000 shares) specialises in underwear,
etc., while Austral Silk and Cotton (35,500
snares held) manufactures cotton and
fabrics. Julius Kayser (Aust.) Pty (30,000
shares held) and Rayon Pty. turn out silk
hosiery and lingerie. All these cos. operate
in Vic.; the Globe Mills (N.S.W.) turn out
suitings, etc.
Thus nearly half of Yarra Falls' capi-
tal is represented by inter-locking invest-
ments (£443,944, up £433,444 over the past
five years). Balance-sheet movements lately
are interesting:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £690,0(70 £900,000 £900,000 £900,000
Sundry creditors
and deposits 226,109 236,464 70,070 145,187
Freeholds .. 198,239 156,327 153,642 159,256
Plant, etc, .. 546,947 263,145 256,364 242,182
Shares in other
cos 10,500 162,219 368,081 443,944
Stocks.. .. 344,528 216,773 149,049 132,203
Sundry debtors 126,386 101,431 51,778 88,317
Advances .. 149,301 71,660 28,352
Cash, etc. .. 204,485 307,197 141,195 189,760
Last year £14,182 more was written off
than was spent on plant, etc.; freeholds
moved up £5613. Debtors increased by
• £36,539, and deposits, etc., by £45,565.
Mainly because of the purchase of shares
in the Globe mills, the outside debt,
including unspecified provision for taxation,
increased £75,117. The more or less liquid
surplus (£293,445, excluding investments)
was £50,167 lighter than at the previous
balance.
Though the immediate outlook is for better
trading, with the revision of the tariff textile
imports more than doubled during July and
August. The market prices the co.’s scrip
at 275.; at which figure the return is 4.5
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The visible back-
ing is £1 4s. 2d. per share in net tangibles,
subject to any goodwill, etc., in the share-
holdings.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
1928.. 35.866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1929.. 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
1930.. 47,872 8 „ „ 34,690* 13,182 41,717
1931.. 39,451 -5)„ „ 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4 „ ~ 19,970 2,287 65,996
"Includes 1 p.c. on deferreds.
This co. kicked off six years ago with a
Government contract and a 100,000-ton-p.a.
plant, which it put up on the Mudgee line,
some 150 miles from Sydney. When the
original contract ran out in Sept., 1930,
another one was secured for the supply of
65,000 tons p.a. for three years. Thus the co.
has been able to go on earning profits and
paying divs. despite the rapid evaporation of
outside orders and generally unsound condi-
tion of the industry, which is heavily over-
capitalised. What will happen after the
existing contract runs out 12 months hence
it is impossible to say at the moment. If
another and satisfactory one cannot be
secured, then shareholders may be in for a
thin time.
After striking off the usual £25,000 for
depreciation, there was a slip of £17,194 in
last year’s net earnings, due to shrinkage in
output. The profit was 4.4 p.c. on capital as
against 7.9, 9,5. 9.4 and 7.1 p.c. back to
1D28; so lh points were chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 4 p.c.
Although the unexpectedly heavy outlay
on equipment threw estimates askew at the
start, a substantial portion of the earnings
has remained in the business; thus enabling
£147,789 to be lopped off the debt during
the last five years, reducing it to £21.459
at June 30—the figure includes provision for
taxation;—
1927. 1931. 1932
Paid capital .. .. £466,691 £499,257 £499,257
Creditors .. .. 169,248 28,274 21,459
Freeholds and plant .. 522,335 473,024 451,938
Shares in other cos. .. 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and stocks . . 35,774 50,160 43,986
Book debts and cash .. 22,160 38,024 53,267
Shares in other cos. are the holding in
Kandos-Coomber colliery. Excluding these,
but including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£75.794) improved £15,884 during
the last 12 months.
At 9s. 9d. the pound shares return 8.2 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The book value of
the net tangible backing is 225. Id., mostly
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
r £ £ £
1924*. 42,142 26fp.c.= 32.812 9330 ' 23,261
1925.. 17.948 12) „ „ 15,738 2210 21.051
1926.. 7.818 5 „ „ 7,500 318 20,733
1927.. 18.014 10 „ „ 15,000 3014 17.719
1928.. 26.791 12) „ „ 18,750 8041 9.678
1929.. 20.635 10 „ „ 15.000 6635 4,043
1930.. 16.850 8? „ „ 13,125 8725 318
Written off, £5784 .. .. .. 6.102
1931.. 7,650 5 p.c.= 7,500 150 5,952
1932.. 6,976 4 „ „ 6,000 976 4,976
*lO months.
Another good season kept fresh milk cheap
and plentiful; hence the powdered article,
which this co. manufactures, could be turned
out at relatively low cost. But competition
forced substantial reductions in the selling
price of the powder and other articles that
the co. turns out, while exchange kept the
bill for tinplate, used in the manufacture
of the co.’s containers, high.
Gross earnings (£19,230) fell away £1454,
making the slip £11,592 over the last two
years. Exes. (£12,254, including provision
for taxation and a small loss on sale and
replacement of plant) were £7BO lighter,
leaving the net result at 4.6 p.c. on capital
as against 5.1, 11.2, 13.7, 17.8, 12 and 5.2 p.c.
back to 1926—in that year the figures were
affected by the failure of a subsidiary, formed
to manufacture milk jelly. A point was
knocked off the div., reducing it to 4 p.c.,
making the average over the last nine years
10.4 p.c. It is an extraordinarily good per-
formance, considering that paid capital was
bumped up from £30,000 to £120,000 in
the reconstructions of 1922 and 1923.
Finances are healthy:—
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £144,762 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 15,747 12,072 11,001 11,878
Freehold .. 19,926 21,529 20,255 19,068
Plant, etc. .. 48,013 43,445 44,017 40,266
Shares in other
cos... .. 850
Stocks .. 77,179 31,906 36,938 31,273
Book debts .. 1,395 15,947 14,352 9,741
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,457 56,427 43,235 62,555
Thus the year’s allowance for depreciation,
etc. (the book value of fixed assets was
reduced by £4938), a reduction of £5665 in
stocks and of £4611 in debtors’ balances
enabled £19,320 to be added to cash and
investments. Altogether, the more or less
liquid surplus (£91,691) improved £8167
during the twelvemonth.
The immediate outlook is for another good
season and cheap milk. Much will depend
upon the co.’s success in developing new
lines, manufacture of which has begun. At
15s. 6d. the return on the scrip is 5.1 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 19s. 4d.
in net tangibles, of which 11s. 4d. is surplus
liquids.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong)
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
& £ £ £
1920.. 20,274 7 p.c. = 10,500 9774 25,973
1921.. 11,518 7 „ „ 10,500 1018 24,955
1922.. 15,838 7 „ „ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 „ „ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1925.. 21,676 7 „ „ 12,030 9646 2,183
1926.. 18,801 7 „ „ 14,000 4801 6,984
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 1 4 - q0 n
Superannuation Fund, £2OOO j Al,aM
1928.. 25,186 8) p.c. = 16,500 8686 20,060
Net premiums on new shares, £4450.. 24,510
Added goodwill, £IO,OOO .. .. 14,510
1929.. 32,137 7 p.c. = 18,926 ( Q9ll oq 791
Taxation Reserve, £4OOO j 1 ’
1930.. 10,450 5 p.c. = 15,000 19,171
Loss.
1931.. 4,099 Nil 15,072
Tax provision brought back, £4000.. 19,072
Profit.
1932.. 4,856 1§ p.c. = 5,000 18,928
Earnings have again been greatly reduced
by interest reservations and the writing off
of book debts, the board says. At the tail
of the boom the co. plunged into (he pas-
toral-finance business, borrowing heavily for
the purpose; and visibly its reserves are
shallow—£lß,92B in excess of goodwill
(£60,000) at June 30. The reduction of
commission earnings and other troubles
which accompanied the collapse of prices
resulted in a loss of £4099 in 1931, when
shareholders were passed by for the first
time.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts an extra 5018 bales, making 56,435
in all, were put under the hammer. The
whole Victorian clip averaged £l2 per bale
as against £lO 17s. 3d. for the previous
year. The co.’s sales of land and livestock,
etc., improved, too. So, after providing for
bad debts, etc., the visible spring in gross
earnings was £5140:
Gross Profits. Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1920.. £55,356 £20,245 £14,836
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31.879
1927.. 92,223 34,685 37,147
1928.. 91,373 36,040 30,147
1929.. 114,195 43,364 38,694
1930.. 92,777 44,359 37,968
1931.. 64,931 37,859 31,171
1932.. 70,071 35,443 29,772
Thus the larger turnover was handled at
£3815 less cost, yet enough remained to show
only 1.6 p.c. on capital. Another £4OOO,
previously earmarked for taxation, was
brought into the p. and 1. account, and 4d.
per share (£5000) was distributed. Until
recently, it had been a steady 7 p.c. proposi-
tion since the public became interested in
1913 —O. J. Dennys founded the business
70-odd years ago to handle West Victorian
wools.
Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction: —
1923. 1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
jp £ •£ £ £
Capital .. 150,000 200,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Liabilities 88,618 161,401 362,088 324,803 284,019
Property and
plant .. 87,002 105,295 159,472 151,917 151,270
Stock .. 3,309 10,620 8,755 16,431 15,914
Book debts 137,357 260,375 521,486 468,751 435,650
Cash, etc. 3,923 5,485 2,045 2,776 4,299
Thus the year’s surplus earnings and a
reduction of £33.201 in the book value of
advances enabled £27,715 to be clipped off
the overdrafts (£210.851), £9983 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£70,254)
and £3086 off the mortgage (£2914). The
year’s improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£171,744) was £8589.
The whole position hinges upon the ability
of debtors’ to meet their commitments, and
whether the provision for contingencies
proves to be adequate. The current clip,
which promises well in bulk, averaged 9.1 and.
per pound in September as against 8.4 and. for
the whole of last season. The market, how-
ever, notes the size of the debt and the
slender support for capital, and prices the
pound shares at 15s. 6d. The return at that
figure would be 5.8 p.c. on a 4| p.c. div.
basis.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


Imestin this GILT EDGE
SECURITY
mjlH
2®*
VS//fZZSiS2^SZ?=i
i»«gJ
<sss«
«-§r*n
S-I*’
IS
-*l=3
• 3 j
. ..
=£
5*5
?»*&
vt
”\
1
-
HORNISROOK HIGHWAY LTD.
DIRECTORS:
M. R. HORNIBROOK, Building Contractor, Managing Director.
M. R. Hornibrook, Ltd., Q.P.I. Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
A. H. LANGDON, Mayor of Redcliffe, Broker, Redcliffe.
B. F. LLOYD, Manager, Curlew Street, Toowong, Brisbane
(President of the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland)
T. GAYDON, Chemist and Dentist, Childers, Queensland.
\V E. FOXALL, Company Director, Queen Street, Brisbane.
j.’ m. GRAY BUCHANAN, Retired Grazier, Ascot, Brisbane.
(Three additional Directors may bo appointed.)
UNDERWRITER:
J. M. GRAY BUCHANAN.
Brisbane Representative
G C. HARRIS, A.1.C.A., Public Accountant, Room 1, 4th Floor, Q.P.I.
Building, 127 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative
J A. and A. G. WALKER, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Bank of N.S.W.
Building, 321 George Street, Sydney.
BANKERS: „ ,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
MORRIS, FLETCHER & CROSS, 142 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
AUDITORS:
LANCE JONES, KELLY & CO., 291 Elizabeth Street. Brisbane.
Over 90 per cent, of Gross Income Goes to Debenture Holders.
Incorporated on the 1 Ith day of March, 1932, Hornibrook Highway, Ltd., is now constructing a bridge and roadways to
connect Sandgate and Redcliffe, two of the most popular seaside resorts near Brisbane. The Franchise which was gran e
to M. R. Hornibrook, Building Contractor, Brisbane, by a special Act of Parliament, confers on the owner the right to levy
and collect tolls for a period of forty years, subject to the right of the Queensland Government to resume the undertaking
upon payment of specific compensation, but only after a minimum period of twenty years. The whole or the to s, excep
only the fixed charges for sinking funds, income tax, administration and maintenance, as specified in the trust ee are
divided equally amongst the Debenture Holders. ,
Regarding the Sinking Fund payments as being a return of capital to Debenture Holders, over 90 per cent, ot the gross
tolls collected will be available for the Debenture Holders, either in direct payments in interest or ultimately as the return
of capital in full.
IMMEDIATE INTEREST RETURN OF 5 PER CENT. ON ALL CAPITAL INVESTED IN FULLY-PAID HORNIBROOK
HIGHWAY FIRST SECURITY DEBENTURES DURING THE TWO (2) YEARS OF CONSTRUCTION.
Thereafter, the interest return is from toll revenues, which Mr. Bremner, in his Actuarial Certificate, has given an estimated
average interest return over the twenty years’ priod of 10.3 PER CENT. Interest is payable half-yearly on 31st May and
30th November.
pros peer us
inn ini'll in I' ‘
HORN I BROOK
highway cn>
Estimated Average Interest Return Over the Twenty Years’ Period of 10.3 Per Cent.
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 1939. 1940. 1941. 1042. 1943. 1944. 1945. 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951. 19:>2. 1953. 1954.
previous 1 year 4,100 6,500 7,20*0 6,200 6,260 4,600 4,250 5,200 4.200 4,500 6,100 6,000 6,950 6,200 6,750 5,600 5,500 3,700 3,200
Total Surplus
available for
Shareholders 19,100 24,500 28,200 30.200 30,250 31,600 31,250 32,200 34.200 34,500 36,100 39,000 39,950 42,200 42,750 44,600 44,506. 45,700 45,200 46,000
Interest, rate, p.c. 5 6 7 S 8 9 9 9 10 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15
Amount of in-
terest paid to ,
Shareholders 15.000 18,000 21,000 24,000 24,000 27,000 27,000 27,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 33,000 33,000 36,000 36,000 39,000 39,000 42,000 42,000 45,000
1 fonvard° Jt1 4,100, 6,500 7,200 6,200 6,250 4,600 4,250 5,200 4,200 4,500 6,100 6,000 6,950. 6,200 6.750 5,600 5,500 3,700 3,200 1,000
In the event of resumption by the Government, a return to investors of 8 per cent, on the fair original cost is guaranteed
free of any State and Federal Taxation, by an Order-in-Council read in conjunction with the Act.
THE PUBLIC CURATOR IS TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS, THUS ASSURING TO DEBENTURE
HOLDERS THE BEST AND MOST SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL AND SECURITY FOR THEIR MONEY.
Repayment of Capital in Full Is Assured.
The Sinking Funds, as provided by the Trust Deed, the sole control of which will be in the hands of the Public Curator,
have been certified by Mr. Bremner as being adequate to ensure to investors the return of their capital in full at the expira-
tion of the franchise period.
Issue of 30,000 First Security Debentures of £lO each.
£lOO,OOO has already been underwritten, in addition to a large sum subscribed indepen-
dently of the underwriting.
The Contractors, M. R. Hornibrook, Ltd., have already commenced work. They are well-known as the builders of the
£420,000 Grey-street Bridge, across the Brisbane River—the largest structure of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
You, as an investor, must realise that this proposition is one of the safest and most reliable ever offered to the public for
subscription.
Hornihro ok Highimm I
\a
9
Mi
£
" n _ Saves 10-i Miles
j™i Brisbane** Redcliffe
Write for Copy of Prospectus to Underwriter, Hornibrook Highway, Ltd.,
3rd FLOOR, GIBBS CHAMBERS,
17 Martin Place -■ - SYDNEY


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
ssc 4: sis 4*
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
$ •!* jJj
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* $ *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
<A M P>
“A sure friend in uncertain times.
<<«
m
HOW TO BE HAPPY AT 60
by Saving £1 a week
THERE lives not far out of town as happy an old couple
as anyone could wish to see. The old man and his wife
are reaping the reward of an A.M.P. policy that they
took out in their early married life. What they did any
couple can do to-day, with the promise of similar results.
When the husband was 25 the couple decided that they
would “put a pound a week” into an A.M.P. endowment
policy that would give them £2OOO plus bonuses at 60
years of age.
The premium for such a policy cost them £55/16/8 a year,
which is only £l/1/6 a week.
This is what they drew in cash at 60:—
Amount of Policy . . . . £2OOO 0 0
Bonuses added . . . . . . 1548 0 0
£3548 0 0
That sum has been safely and wisely invested, and the old
couple smile benignly, safe in a steady little income that, plus
their other savings and the possession of a small cottage,
makes life a joy to them.
Write to, or call on, the nearest A.M.P. office or repre-
sentative, and see how little such a policy will cost YOU.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices in
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States
AMP
assets £86,600,000. '
Gives best possible contract)
The Film Merger
Last week’s announcement by General
Theatres Corporation, the new co. which is
to absorb Greater Union Theatres* Ltd., and
Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd., as from Jan. 1 next,
does not say whether Australasian Films,
Ltd., which hires and distributes films, is to
be included in the deal; but Cinesound Pro-
ductions, producers of local sound-gazettes,
will be thrown in. Hoyts run a string of
city, suburban and country theatres through-
out the continent, and a large parcel of the
ord. scrip is held by Fox Films. Greater
Union’s theatres are mostly in Sydney and
Melbourne. The new co. will control 180
houses altogether.
Greater Union’s capital is £400,000, of
wl ich Amalgamated Pictures owns £58,400,
Greater G. D. Williams £130,000, Wests
£104,500 and Spencers £106,800. The hold-
ing cos. are those in which the public is
interested. Of Hoyt’s capital (£2,285,000),
the public is interested in 400,000 8 p.c.
A profs, and 450,000 8 p.c. B prefs. Though
the terms of the merger have not yet been
disclosed, the scrip of all the listed cos. has
strengthened slightly on ’Change.
Hornibrook High ,vay, Ltd.
This Brisbane co., which has a nominal
share capital of £20,000, of which £5850 has
been issued, is on the market with £300,000
worth of £lO debentures. The money is
wanted to build a concrete-pile bridge 11-
miles long across Hay’s Inlet, thus shorten-
ing the route from Brisbane to Redcliffe, a
popular seaside resort, by about 10 miles,
and connecting up with the new main road
north to Caboolture. The money is to be
spent £237,000 on. construction of the bridge,
etc.; £15,000, purchase of franchise, plans,
etc.; £33,000, brokerage and underwriting;
£1.4,400, development of attractions (swim-
rning baths, camping grounds, etc.) at Red-
cliffe and preliminary exes.
The franchise is for 40 years, with the
right to charge specified tolls, chiefly Is.
per car carrying six persons. At the end
of 40 years the bridge passes to the Gov-
ernment:, which, however, has the right to
take over the structure at the end of 20
years, or each five years thereafter, on pay-
ment of fair original cost less sinking fund.
The fair original cost, to be determined by
the Commissioner of Main Roads, or by
arbitration, is the sum of (1) a reasonable
amount for construction of the class of
work contemplated; (2) an allowance of
12-J p.c. of the first item to cover flotation
and preliminary exes., etc., and (3) interest
on the first and second items at bank over-
draft rate during the period of construction.
The bridge is expected to take two years
to complete, during which time debenture-
holders are to receive 5 p.c. on their money.
After that they are entitled to the net toll
revenue. This, after sending £4668 p.a. to
.sinking funds for the redemption of deben-
ture capital, etc., is expected to be sufficient
to pay divs. ranging from 5 p.c. in 1935
to 15 p.c. in 1954; the average return for
the 20 years is put at 10.3 p.c. p.a. The
figures are based on a fair original cost of
£275,000, and actual traffic to Redcliffe for
the 15 weeks to Feb. 21, 1932, plus 15 p.c.
of the Brisbane-Sandgate-Bald Hills traffic
for the same period. Thus, apart from the
possibility of resumption by the Govern-
ment, the security for the debenture capital
and interest is the net toll revenue; every-
thing, therefore, depends upon prospectus
estimates being realised. Traffic figures,
though taken for the busiest summer months,
covered the wmrst period of the slump, and
3io allowance has been made for any increase
due to improved facilities, attractions or
growth in population.
The trustee for the debenture-holders is
the Public Curator of Queensland. On the
board are M. R. Hornibrook, A. H. Lang-
don, B. F. Lloyd, T. Gaydon and W. E.
Foxall. Wheeler, Foxall and Cos. have under-
written £IOO,OOO of debentures at 2s. each.
Natural Gas and Oil Corp., Ltd.
This co. is looking for £20,000 in 2s.
shares with the object of putting down a
bore in the workings of the old Balmain
colliery. The aim is to tap the reservoirs
of natural gas believed by the promoter
(R. W. Gibbs), Geologist Dunstan and
others to exist in the deep coal measures
beneath Sydney. The promoter, formerly
manager of the colliery, takes £15,000 in
paids and £6OOO cash for transferring his
lease (which expires on June 30, 1935) and
option over the colliery freehold and plant.
The purchase price under the option is
£65,000.
There is little doubt that gas will be
struck; the question is whether it will be of
the right quality and quantity. From the Bal-
main mine-workings, 3000 ft. down, there was
a steady flow of gas for over 20 years, often
exceeding a million cubic feet a day, and
sometimes a great deal more. The colliery
was wmrking on the top (Bulli) seam of
the upper coal measures. In addition, there
are the lower Newcastle and the Maitland
(or Greta) measures, expected to be encoun-
tered 3000 ft. or 4000 ft. below the bottom of
the Balmain shaft. The coal seams which
outcrop at Maitland, Lithgow and the South
Coast take a steep dip around Sydney, and
the temperature of the beds is higher there.
The quantity of gas in the lower seams will
largely depend upon the thickness of the
deposits and sealing properties of the shales
above them.
Cost of plant and drilling, which is to be
done through perforated casing, is put at
£6OOO, leaving £BOOO of the proposed capi-
tal for further outlay should the experiment
be successful. James Fallins, consulting
engineer, predicts that “large volumes of
gas at high pressure will be met with by the
drill.” Geologist B. Dunstan says “there is
hardly any doubt that the present ventui’e
would be successful.” If it is there should
be a good thing in it; tentative arrange-
ments have already been made with the gas
cos. for distribution through their mains
should quality and quantity warrant it. If
it isn’t, from a geological point of view, the
money will be well spent, as a log of the
bore is to be taken by the N. S. Wales
Mines Department. The directors are Archi-
bald Howie and ,T. M. Paxton (both of the
Manly Gas Go.), Thomas Henley (North
Shore Gas), David Roxburgh' and R. W.
Gibbs. They may go to allotment when
100,060 2s. share have been applied for.
The scrip is to be listed, and is payable
in fourpenny instalments.
Tnree powerful production control organi-
sations have been disbanded during recent
months. The Copper Exporters’ Trust has
broken down, following the action of U.S.A.
in placing a prohibitive duty of 4 cents per
pound on the red metal. However, it is
reported that a price agreement has been
made between Union Miniere, the woidd’s
hugest copper producer, operating in the
Belgian Congo, and Anaconda, the largest
American co.; between them these two cos.
produce one-sixth of the world’s copper. The
mercury cartel in Italy and Spain has also
been terminated. One result has been that
the price of mercury in England has slumped
to the record low figure of £9 per flask, and
is expected to go lower. America has been
producing increasing quantities of mercury
during recent years. Instead of importing
40,000 flasks, annually she is now exporting
large quantities; this brought about an
accumulation of Italian and Spanish stocks.
The American-Sicilian sulphur agreement, in
force since 1923, has also been annulled.
Stocks of brimstone in U.S.A. total 3,250.000
tons, and in Sicily 230,000 tons. The Sicilian
stock is to be liquidated over a period of six
years. One of the greatest difficulties experi-
enced by these cartels has been the financing
of excess stocks.
* $ * $
The new. method of refining lead bullion
at Port Pirie (S. Aus,) is attracting a lot
of attention overseas. In the new process the
silver and gold are removed continuously by
the addition of zinc, instead of intermittently
as in the past. Also the new plant is
operated by less than half the staff formerly
required; it occupies only 45 p.c. of the
floor space of the old one, and has double
the capacity. Research work connected with
the development of the process was in hand
for more than four years before treatment
was perfected. In addition to cheapening
and improving production, working condi-
tions have been greatly improved.
*!* if;
The Lake George Cos., Captain’s Flat
(N.S.W.), has been granted a suspension
of labor conditions for a further six months.
Thus , far expenditure underground and on
experimental flotation of the lead-zinc-iron
ore amounts to £275,450. A further £750,000
will be needed to build the 27 miles of rail-
way from Bungendore and complete the
treatment plant. Ore reserves total 2,00*9,000
tons, assaying 7.6 p.c. lead,- 12.9 p.c. zinc,
0.8 p.c. copper and I.3dwt. gold. Two
lodes have been developed—the Elliot, 20ft.
wide and 1000 ft. long, and the Keating, 18ft.
wide and 800 ft. long. A satisfactory method
of ore treatment in which lead, zinc and
pyrite flotation concentrates are made has
been evolved. Future developments will be
governed largely by the prices of lead and zinc.
* * * ■ . *
Lewis Plass, assistant chief engineer of
the American Smelting and Refining Cos., is
returning to the U.S.A. after 10 months at
Mt. Isa (Q.). He has been supervising the
construction of the new smelting plant and
sundry other improvements costing £150,000.
The improvements consist of sintering equip-
ment, enlargement of the crushing plants and
the inclusion of a number of labor-saving
devices. A year ago less than 1000 tons
of lead bullion were being obtained each
month; for September the output was 4200
tons; by the end of this year the figure is
expected to reach 6000 tons per month.
¥ * * *
Rich telluride ore is not so plentiful-
as it used to be at Kalgoorlie, but good
patches are frequently encountered at depth
in some of the old mines there. Lake View
is getting the most,. but says very . little
about it. Great Boulder broadcasts every
discovery it. makes, and so does the Per-
severance. Associated is silent because it
gets so little. South Kalgurli has a fair-
sized patch from which a little is taken
now and again to sweeten monthly outputs.
* % * *
London interests are again negotiating
with the Mararoa Cos. for an option on its
goldmine at Reedy’s (W.A.). If the parties
can’t agree as to terms, it is probable that
crowd will step in and make an offer.
In view of the enhanced price of gold, many
mining men in the West think this show
should have been snapped before now.
* sS «: ■ »
Wiluna, not satisfied with its mining costs,
lias appointed 11. 11. Carroll, hitherto under-
ground manager for B. H. South, as assistant
general-manager. Carroll did splendid work
at the Hill, and has studied mining on the
Rand and in America.
New Deloraine (S.A.), having installed a
crude-oil engine and pump, is unwatering the
shaft to allow of further development below
140 ft.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the meaning of the average clause
in a fire policy? Hoic does it operate in
practice? —27o6.
In all cases where an insurance is de-
clared to be subject to average, the follow-
ing clause applies in the event of partial
loss: “If the property hereby insured shall,
at the breaking out of any fire, be collectively
of greater value than the sum insured there-
on, then the insured shall be considered
as being his own insurer for the difference,
and shall bear a ratable proportion of the
loss accordingly. Every item, if more than
one, of the policy shall be separately subject
to this condition.” Thus in the event of par-
tial loss, say of £250 of property valued at:
£IOOO, but insured for only £SOO, the in-
surance co. would pay £125. With average
the insured is his own insurer for the differ-
ence between the amount insured for (£500)
and the actual value of the property
(£1000). That is to say, he is taking one-
half the risk and has, therefore, to bear one-
half of the loss. In the event of total loss the
insurance co. pays the full amount insured
for, of course.
The N. S. Wales Conversion Loan was
floated at 3-jj p.c. for five years at £97 10s.
Including redemption , this is said to give
a return of £4 Is. Id. to the investor.
Please tell me (1) How is that return
arrived at? (2) What advantage is gained
by issuing at a discount instead of making
the interest rate a straightout 4 p.c.? (3)
Cost of floating the loan, and what does
that bring the rate t0? —2624.
(1) By dividing the average interest per
cent, per “interval” by the average capital
employed. The interest per half year, or
interval, is 1.75 p.c. In addition, there will
be a premium of £2 10s. on redemption 10
intervals hence, equal to ss. per interval.
The average interest per interval is there-
fore 2 p.c. The capital invested at the
beginning of the first interval is £97.5, and
at the beginning of the last interval £99.75.
Hence average capital is £98.625. There-
fore the effective yield is 200 divided by
98.625 = 2.0278 p.c. per interval, ol* £4 Is.
1.3 and. per annum. _ This is an approximate
method which avoids the use of complicated
actuarial formulas. (2) In the ulti-
mate, none. But as that part of the
interest is eventually funded under the next
conversion loan, and may not have to be
met out of revenue, the scheme is attractive
to politicians as well as intriguing to the
investor. (3) Don’t know.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.H.W.: There is no reason to suppose that these
forestry bond-selling concerns will fail to carry out
their part of the contract, which is to care for the
forests and market the products on a commission
basis. It is the bondholders, the owners of the
timber, who shoulder all the risks worth mentioning.
The marketing problem promises to be a very per-
plexing one. The owner of a timber stand can
only get what anybody wishing to buy the log is
prepared to pay him for it... .G.: The moratorium
does not extend to share purchase contracts, only
to mortgages within the meaning of the Act. There
is nothing to suggest that Peter’s Vic. co. is likely
ca h U P capital at the moment... .V.S.R.P.: Yes,
>t is one of the best of its class. Much, however,
depends upon exchange. See B. 7/9/’32, page 16.
Silver: The Barrier cos. and Mt. Isa would
ben eftt most. But bimetallism is not likely to be
adopted.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Why Not Pay the Dole in Cash?
Dear B., —I believe 90 per cent, of the
dependants on the dole in N. S. Wales would
welcome a 5 per cent, cut if they received
cash instead of coupons. It would then be
possible to buy every food item in the
cheapest market. There is a striking differ-
ence in grocers’ prices for lines such as
jam and tea, whilst for allowed substitutes,
such as potatoes and dried fruit, the dole
shopper is forced to pay any price asked.
His coupon must be cashed and spent in
the one shop, whereas he could do much
better by getting the bargain lines in three
or four stores. Meat is another item that
can be bought much better with' cash than
with coupons. No doubt there would be
abuses, but no more than are likely to
occur now that a good number are being paid
cash for work. The Government could make
a big saving and the unemployed would be
not only much better off, but far more con-
tented. —Yours, Beta.
The Parable of the Hungry Townsmen
Dear Bulletin, —There was a fair city
set in a smiling country, and the people
thereof were busy and content. For every
man labored each according to his special
skill, and there was no thought of money
save that it was round and rolled easily.
And there came into the city a certain man,
who said, “Lo, I will save my money and
grow rich.” And to his wife he gave not
the wherewithal to buy raiment, neither for
her nor for his children; and he mended his
own shoes. And when his neighbors saw
how this man was laying up riches, they
went and did likewise. So that in the
market-place it was presently said, “Trade
is not so good as it used to be”; and the
cobbler could not pay his apprentices, the
jeweller closed up his shop, and the barber
starved and died. Now when the townsmen
saw this they were distraught, and they
levied tribute upon themselves and fed the
hungry. Thus it happened that philosophers
who journeyed through that city said, “This
is the richest city of all, for it lias more
gold buried than any other city.” But the
hungry cried, “We are ashamed in our
hearts that we cannot earn a livelihood.
Give unto us work, for we would fain hold
up our heads again.” But the townsmen
lamented, “Bad times are upon us, and we
know not what the outcome may be; we
must prepare for the worst.” So they
went, and of the money which passed through
their hands they put by all they could.
And those who had no work to do grew
hungrier and hungrier, and the streets
swarmed with beggars, and none knew
wherein lay the reason for their distress. —
Yours, Andrew Macansh.
N.S.W. Railway Service
Dear B., —As the executive of the N.S.W.
Tramway Employees’ Association, we were
faced with the problem of the charges for
railway passes. The railway people had
charged us £212,000 a year. We met in con-
ference. Union members under the Act were
entitled to a second-class all-lines pass for
self and family over the holiday period. For
this we were charged as if we remained on
the train from the start of our holidays to
the end; that is to say, our pay was re-
duced accordingly. We agreed to forego
the all-lines pass and accept point-to-point
passes (many men only travelled a few
miles; many never left Sydney), charges to
be reduced proportionately. And so it was
arranged. But we note that the heads who
put the case to us so convincingly still travel
on their holidays with a first-class all-lines
ticket. That’s the sort of thing which pro-
vokes discontent in the service.—Yours, Keg.
Sunday Work in Factories
Dear B., —“Rushes” are advanced as
excuses by factory proprietors (mostly
foreigners) who keep at work on Sundays.
This evil is growing in some of our indus-
trial suburbs (I write from Melbourne),
shirt manufacturers and others in the wear-
ing-apparel trade being the chief offenders.
Most of these factories are family enter-
prises conducted on a share-in-the-profits
plan, natives of Palestine being particularly
evident in the trade. Other manufacturers
in the same line, faced with fierce competi-
tion, feel that they must follow the example,
and in some cases small-way Australian
manufacturers have opened shop on Sundays,
employing sons, daughters, relatives and
friends to get out work. The practice ought
to be suppressed hard.—Yours, Fourwalls.
The Victorian Railways
Dear Bulletin,. —The whole of Victoria’s
income tax is now required to pay its rail-
ways deficit. The service is hopelessly
overmanned, so that in effect the population
is being directly taxed to keep the surplus
men in a job. That being so, why keep
them in the railways when it would cost
no more to employ them on useful and
productive work? I suggest that the
Railways Commissioners be given a free
hand to release all men they consider sur-
plus, the released men to be employed by
Government at the same wages on repro-
ductive works, any amount of which are
crying out to be done (the sewering of
country towns and the improving of farm
lands to increase productivity are examples).
The scheme would cost the taxpayers no
more and the economic advantages would
be tremendous.—Yours etc., T. P. B. (Vic.).
Motor Accidents
Dear Bulletin, —The number of motor
accidents suggests that the rules relating to
drivers’ licenses need revision. A man who
passed the eyesight test 30 years ago may
continue to drive though his eyesight has
become so impaired that he is a danger to
the public. Every driver should be required
to pass an eyesight test at least every five
years.—Yours etc., Eureka.
Interest and Rent
Dear Bulletin,—The largest item in the
cost of production and distribution alike is
interest and rent. It would be interesting
if a graph were prepared showing the price
received by the primary producer for his
produce and the price paid by the consumer
for each item. You would find that a 100 p.c.
increase is quite ordinary and in many cases
it is 200 p.c. or 300 p.c. Now trace out the
causes of these high costs of distribution
and you will find that, on top of what the
primary producer has already paid in rent
and interest, the distributor has also very
high charges in rent and interest to pay.
It is easy to see then how the cost to the
consumer mounts up. The problem the
world has to solve is how these payments
can be reduced. The reduction as carried
out here is a start; but what we need is a
fixed rate for gilt-edged Government securi-
ties, any payment above this for other securi-
ties to be repayment of principal.—Yours,
Henry YV. Shoobridge (Tas.).
Author Pays Primage
Dear Bulletin, —Isn’t this taxation gone
mad? I had to pay ss. primage on half a
dozen copies of “Fay’s Circus” when my
publishers in America sent me my author’s
copies the other day. The same thing hap-
pened (4s. to pay) when half a dozen
author’s copies of “Kiss On the Lips”
arrived from London last week. Shouldn’t
the Fellowship of Australian Writers make
some protest?—Yours, Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard (W.A.).
Follow the Bees
Dear Bulletin, —Industry is being
throttled by the high cost of government ser-
vices. England realises this with regard to
herself, and England knows what’s what in
finance. Cable advices indicate, therefore,
reduction in all public services. One could
name innumerable instances of waste of
public money in Australia; two will suffice.
Three men went per motor-car to a Sydney
suburb to value property for rating pur-
poses. Private enterprise would have sent
one man, probably by tram. One of these
three men stated that he was about to com-
mence six months’ accumulated leave on full
pay. What private enterprise could stand
six months’ leave on full pay? Is it any
wonder the poor milch cow is going dry?
The other instance. A window was smashed
at a railway station over 50 miles from Syd-
ney. (1) An inspector sent from Sydney
to report. (2) A glazier sent from Sydney
to put in the new glass. (3) A painter sent
from Sydney to frost the glass. (4) An
inspector sent from Sydney to pass the job.
Cost, something over £lO. If done by private
enterprise, probably 10s. This young coun-
try cannot stand such
waste. Granted there are
many public servants
who are doing their work
honorably and well; but
there are numbers who
are not. Bees always
get rid of the drones from
the hive when feed is
scarce. Let’s follow their
e x a m p 1 e.—Yours, F.
Connor (Q.).
Something to Tax
Dear B.,—Lyons wants
something to tax. Well,
what about “canned”
music? There is good
picking in the wireless
programmes; there are
the picture and other
shows, which once em-
ployed flesh and blood to ,
supply assorted noises,
but now use gramophones
with boosting attach-
ments. And worse,
these gramophone discs
and piano-player rolls
are made by foreign
musicians and alien
workmen. They would
call for taxation even if
we were only half as
hard up.—Yours, Mug
(Q.).
A Bounty on Rabbit-
skins
Dear Bulletin, —A
bounty of sixpence per
pound on rabbit - skins
would soon pay for itself.
The average price in
S.A. at present is about
4d. per pound, and at
that rate rabbit-trapping
does not pay. A great
deal of relief money is
spent on non-reproduc-
tive highways; a bit of
it spent on rabbit-destruc-
tion would keep many men
off the dole, might entice
some into the country,
would be a great boon to
graziers and would add
appreciably to the value
of our exports—a matter,
this last, of the utmost
importance if we are to
keep solvent. Yours,
C. L. L. (S.A.).
Buying Justice
Dear Bulletin, —Our
system of computing bail
is not just. Take the
case of two men charged
with manslaughter aris-
ing out of motor
smashes in similar cir-
cumstances. Bail is
fixed in each case at £2OO
irrespective of the means
of the persons charged.
If one man has the £2OO
he can get temporary
freedom, but should the
other man be poor and
without wealthy friends
he has to remain in gaol
until the trial. —Yours,
Eureka.
Radio Talk
Dear B., —A B-station
put on a talk on cancer
and, as a result of some
opinion expressed by the speaker, a sufferer
committed suicide. The incident opens up a
wide vista of possible “incidents,” because it
is so easy to misunderstand or misinterpret a
statement or piece of advice when the ear is
the only one of the senses available for its
interpretation. Radio talks should be confined
solely to subjects of interest, as distinct from
talks tendering advice on matters where a
misunderstanding may result in tragedy or
contretemps.—Yours, CJolumba.
Sydney’s Sky Line
Dear Bulletin, —Our architects seem to
fail in the sky-lines of our high city build-
ings. From the street levels everything is
right, but from across a park or from any
distance the beauty of design is marred by
structures whose architecture is not in
harmony. Kitchens, tank supports, care-
takers’ quarters and sundry outbuildings de-
tract from aesthetic values to too great an
extent. Many of these superstructures could
be made to “tone in” at little extra cost. —
Beemacaudit.
Communism
Dear B., —By bringing pressure to bear
on landlords who rent premises to Commun
ist organisations, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has outlawed the party in Sydney.
No normal person is going to quarrel with
that, but you don’t kill a fruit tree by
pruning it. The fruit grows more prolifi-
cally. History affords many examples of
suppressed organisations bursting forth in
destroying violence. The Russian revolution
is a recent example. London, with its six
millions, possesses more Communists than the
Commonwealth does; but London maintains
an exhaust-pipe, Hyde Park, where hot-air is
spent. Sydney needs an exhaust-pipe, too;
so why not recognise it? If Communism has
reached the stage where it must be sup-
pressed, root it out. This can be done only
by transporting all Red executives. If
this is not done, then it’s far better to allow'
Communists to air views in the open, where
those in authority can watch their activities.
Already, since the Federal Government stated
its intention to put into practice the new
Unlawful Associations Act, the Reds have
found underground headquarters where, no
doubt, they continue to plan unrestrainedly.
—Yours, J. E. B.
The Curse of Over-taxation
Dear B., —Why does not consumption rise
at present depressed prices? The reason is
taxation. Taxation has crippled industry
after every great war. After the Napoleonic
wars England was depressed for 35 years,
and was only saved by the great inventions
and discoveries of last century. When we
read of the peasant in France, in Carlyle’s
burning words, having to pay his lord all
his pi'oduets and starve in the midst _of
plenty, do we not see our farmers are doing
the same thing and for the' same reason?
Our products are taxed till there is no mar-
gin left for anything but the State. The
taxation falls on every supplier of goods to
English markets. At the Ottawa Confer-
ence it was pointed out that, while the colo-
nies were placing goods on the English
market at 43 per cent, under pre-war
values, the English consumer was paying
78 per cent, over pre-war prices for these
goods. Some allegations were made of pro-
fiteering, but the middlemen of England
are struggling hard to subsist. There is
only one reason why prices are held up. —
taxation is collected on these goods in in-
direct and direct ways till they become too
dear to go into consumption. No juggling
with exchange can help us: it must be at
best a temporary relief. There is no escape
by local means. Relief can only come by
the reduction of taxation in those countries
which buy from us. —Yours, W. 6. D. (M.L.).
Old Clothes to Mend
Dear B., —N. S. Wales is promised a re-
formed Council, Premier Hill in S. Aus.
has in hand a bill to amend his second cham-
ber, while Queensland is facing Fate with
only one leg to its political pants. The call
for’ new political clothes is fairly definite,
but there is a question as to how they are to
be got. The people who are to be governed
appear to be the party to appoint their
tailor and order the clothes. The. case,
therefore, points fairly to the election of
a Convention by the people to make the
new outfits. Such a Convention need ndt
be bulky or costly. A baker’s dozen or
so elected ad hoc by the citizens and given
a year to complete their job could do the
work as well as a hundred. They could
supply alternative constitutions, if required,
but their work would have to be approved
by the citizens when completed, just as the
Federal Constitution was. It is also sug-
gested that provision should be made that
any politician proposing amendment after
submission to the voters should be strangled
on the spot, just as an old Greek State
had a rule that any citizen who proposed
an amendment of existing law should do it
with a neck in a rope noose which, if his
amendment failed on reference to the people,
was tightened till he was past further pro-
posals.—Yours, Eomkey Ree (S.A.).
MARRYING INTO THE FAMILY.
“Pacifism is steadily gaining ground in Australia.”
FATHER WAR: “Bless you, my children—and expect the usual visit from me shortly after the
wedding.”


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelisrnite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
h
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kerabla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMKN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London... Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he 'leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital., .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St,, E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Fandango”: Our Archibald had got his
first job after leaving school, and was deter-
mined to keep it, but after three months at
the cockie’s place he came home. He explained
that “things were starting to look too tough.
Milking 20 cows before breakfast w T as all
right. Cleaning up the yard and anything
that was going during the day all right
again. Bringing the cows in and milking
again in the afternoon all right too. Crook
tucker and eating by myself in the kitchen
right again. Sleeping in a piano-case still
all right. Even mindin’ the baby at night
was good-o when the kid got to know me.
But the missus had another kid. I could
see myself lugging the two of them round
at night, so here I am.”
* * * *
“Canning Downs” : Where did “Cooramin”
get his authority for saying that Jondaryan
station on the Darling Downs was once
owned by Tyson (B. 21/9/’32) ? I have
known the run personally and by hearsay
ever since I was born, and never heard of
Hungry J immy having any connection with
it. It was originally taken up, if memory
serves, by long-dead Charles Coxen, and when
I knew it later had been long the property of
the Wienholt family. As to the bell, Jon-
daryan, like most of the old Downs stations,
is more of a village than the two- or three-
hut centre of an out-back cattle run. It
would be impossible to turn out the hands
by word of mouth and a tin dish, as the
men’s-hut babbler does elsewhere, without
wasting half the early morning.
“Verneuk” : Near Bulawayo, Rhodesia, the
skeleton of a jackal has been found within
the skeleton of,a horse. It was obviously
impossible for the horse to have swallowed
the jackal, so the latter must have
eaten his way into the dead moke until he
died of repletion, which one would reckon
impossible for a jackal. But queer things
happen in and about Bulawayo. I remem-
ber one afternoon one of the outside men
barging into the club and demanding strong
drink. He had encountered a 20ft. python out
on the veldt with horns three feet long—
that was his estimate; he didn’t stop to
measure them. Next morning a mixed party
w r ent forth to investigate the phenomenon.
Our native tracker led us to some thoi-n
bush and said that what we wanted was
in there and he was darned if he’d go
any further. His reasons were explained
when a wandering whiff of wind blew
through the bush. When we had staggered
round to windward one or two hardy spirits
found that the python had swallowed one
of the larger bucks and that the horns had
worked through the skin of his neck just
behind the head. When our friend saw him
he was evidently streaking for home to make
his will, for he was very dead when dis-
covered only 24 hours later.
* * *
“Bramble Key”: I can’t trace that part
of Captain Cook’s narrative which gives an
account of Papuans’ use of “canes” emit-
ting smoke and fire (B. 5/10/’B2) ; but
it exactly parallels
a story told by one
Jukes, who has
left behind him a
very lively account
of the exploring
voyages of H.M.S.
Rattlesnake
in New Guinea
waters in the
middle of last cen-
tury. The “cane”
seen was probably
the bamboo bau-
bau, used for smok-
ing tobacco. This
is filled with smoke
and then passed
round a group
which inhales the
stored vapor.
What remains is
flicked out of the
tube by a sideways
flip of the wrist,
and this was what
Jukes mistook for
“smoke and fire,”
though I fancy his
imagination sup-
plied the fire. An-
other theory is
that the “smoke”
was lime from the
gourds carried by
the betel-eliewers
of the party seen.
It was a theft of
a pig by Jukes —
gleefully chronicled
by himself —which
led many years
later to a “pay-
back” attack on a
Government party
by members of the
tribe from whom
the pig had been
stolen. As Hubert
Murray said, when telling the story at the
recent Science Conference in Sydney, “the
Papuan* has a long memory.”
# :!= * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare invited me to
inspect a second-hand bath he had recently
installed. I noticed that it lacked a plug,
and inquired how he managed to make it
retain water. “Oh, orrite,” he assured me
cheerfully. “I keep te band over it till I
get in—t’en I sit on it.”
“Grenouille”: Frogs have never figured
very prominently in religious surroundings,
though I have a faint recollection that Aris-
tophanes introduced a chorus of them into a
scene in Hades. But for six years one of the
large green variety so popular with Austra-
lians sat in the pulpit of St. John’s Church
at Wilberforce (N.S.W.) throughout the
morning services. The Rev. G. P. Birk was
then the padre, and he and the frog ran a
dead-heat for popularity, especially among
the juniors of the congregation. Usually
after the service the frog accompanied the
parson into the vestry for a drink and
was then seen no more until the following
Sunday. From 1919 to 1926 the frog never
missed his tip. as the circus people say,
save during the annual harvest festival,
when he went missing until it was over.
Probably, being a frog on the land, the
idea of holding harvest festivals with pro-
duce at unprofitable prices was too much
for him.
“Bogaduck”: I drove up to a hut upon
a rise, meaning to camp there. At dusk
an old chap came along and advised me
not to try to sleep in it, as it was haunted.
I replied that I didn’t care, as I didn’t
believe in ghosts. “You’ll know better in
a few hours’ time, my boy,” he snapped, and
went on. I turned into my blankets soon
after tea. and half an hour later I fled out
of that hut, with every hair on my head
erect, and my skin in a cold sweat. It
haunted—by 10,009,000 huge and voracious
bed-bugs.
* * * *
“Hunter-Grubb”: Reference to the Shoal-
haven Valley eagles’ nests (B. 28/9/’32)
recalls an interesting bit of ornithological
history. In a reference to Eagle Island, near
Cooktown, Captain Cook noted the dis-
covery there of a nest, built on the ground,
“no less than 2ft. Sin. high, and 26ft. in
circumference,” and obviously the work
of some bird, he knew not what, “of
most enormous size.” Banks described it
similarly and attributed it to the pelican!
Later, an American professor, commenting
on these notes, declared it must have been
the nest of a Dinorms , ignoring the fact
that the moa didn’t frequent Australia.
Forty years elapsed before Maegillivray, oi
the Rattlesnake, retorted that no struthious
bird would make such a nest nor would a
flightless laud bird of colossal proportions
exist on an island a quarter of a mile long.
He added that both Gould and himself had
seen similar nests, which were the productions
of the large fish eagle of Australia. He might
RIGHT AND MORE THAN RIGHT.
SHIFT BOSS: “That wall don't seem plumb to me, ’Lijah. Put
plumb-bob on ’er.”
LIJAH TREDLNNICK (after testing her): “’Ess, Cap'n. She'm
ploomb all right, an’ bit over.”
have added, but did not, that the nest is
the accumulation of many years of nesting.
Banficld, in the same waters, noted ospreys
occupying one site for more than 25 years.
“Egbert” : The other day two small boys
of my acquaintance raided an eagles’ nest;
a large, untidy platform of sticks, some —
the main joists, so to speak—as thick, as
a man’s wrist. Towards the centre it was
slightly hollowed and carpeted with dead
gumleaves, upon which were strewn some
pieces of ’possum meat and half a rabbit.
The only inhabitant of this airy, well-fur-
nished residence was an eaglet, which the kids
described as “a bonzer little bloke, about
half the size of a chook, with a silly sort
of face and fluffy plus-fours.” They were
stroking him when the parent birds appeared.
According to tradition, the eagles should have
torn those lads to ribbons with beak and claw,
but not a bit of it! Mum and Dad settled
complacently into a near-by tree, apparently
gratified that their youngster was making
such a hit, and didn’t go home till the
visitors had departed. I’m glad to be able
to record that the boys left the eaglet where
it was.
* * * *
“Pick”: I support “Chevroford,” who
objects (B. 21/9/’32) to planting streets
with trees that require constant trimming
to prevent contact with overhead electric
wires. There’s no necessity for the periodi-
cal pruning. The bush offers an ideal
street tree, the boobyalla, which stands trans-
planting in any climate and soil. It grows to
full height of about 15ft. in seven years,
and is then a beautifully rounded and
bunchy shade tree, annually decorated with
a wealth of starry blossoms. I have seen
but one boobyalla about Sydney—in a
back yard of Alibone-street, in Ashfield: a
splendid specimen, though the soil is poor.
The adjoining thoroughfares grow unhealthy,
gnarled, unshapely blue-gums, ragged from
loppings.
“Acorn”: In parks and public gardens
round Sydney it is almost impossible to
find a. tree of any size that has not had to
submit to the ruthless hand of man. Great
Moreton Bay figs that should have been
permitted to attain their splendid growth
untouched have been made unsightly by
haphazard lopping where the merest devia-
tion of traffic would have saved the tree. I
know of only one very big tree in a public
park that has remained unspoiled for a
lengthy period. That is the Lady Belmore
oak in the public park at Goulburn, which
was planted by the Governor’s wife 75 years
ago to mark the opening of the railway.
GIRLS AND GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The band is keepin’ perfect time, the floor
is just the thing,
Yet ’ere’s me ’oldin’.up the wall, an’ watchin’
others swing;
Me, who ’as always been the one to lead the
giddy throng,
While cobbers raise inquii'in’ brows an’
wonder what is wrong.
A lot or nothin’ —I dunno. I’ve tried to
concentrate.
But ’anged if I remember fastenin’ up the
bottom gate.
The cows may be amongst the wheat; they’ve
won a score of cups.
•lust think of all them beauties swollen up
like poisoned pups!
A bloke should get ’is ’orse an’ go, too
flamin right, he ort!
An’ yet that pretty piece in pink—she seems
a friendly sort.
I’ll guarantee if any die, they’ll be the best
I’ve got.
Who is the girl? I wonder if she’s got a
bloke or not?
I bred them animals meself, an’ culled ’em
cow by cow,
Until me herd was perfect. Cripes, she’s
smilin’ at me now!
’Er eyes are blue, there’s ’alf a ton of mis-
chief in ’er glance.
Them cows —I think I’ll put it on that
clyner for a dance.
ETYMOLOGY AND SIN TAX.
OLD LADY: “Why do they call you men here crooks?”
PRISONER: “Well, yer see, lady, we’ve got a kind o’ bent fer crime.”
What luck! I’ve clicked —she’s keepin’ me.
the final waltz as well,
Of all the tabbies ’ere to-niglit she’s easily
the belle.
A fair knockout, from golden ’ead to silver-
slippered feet!
What odds if all me bloomin’ cows are
down amongst the wheat?
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —•
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Sin. and Sin.
Each
razor set ready for use and guaranteed
CRAIG & AITKEN,
and kept in order for two years free of charge.
654 George Street, Sydney.
THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
“.... yon may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ was the very best medium, for that teas the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact.
( Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager.”
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
15hQ
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER , 7// Pitt Street, Sydney—Bsoo7.
“Nikko” : I heard a slight thud while read-
ing, and saw a mouse trying to catch the hem
of a curtain that dangled two feet above
his head. Bruce’s spider was not more
pertinacious than that mouse. He must
have jumped 50 times before he at last
managed to grasp the curtain with his tiny
claws. Then he hung for a moment, appar-
ently to get his wind, and finally scampered
up the drapery and disappeared somewhere
in the picture-rail. Half an hour later he
reappeared with an air of something accom-
plished, swung off the end of the curtain
and scuttled kitch'enwards.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: One evening about 31
years ago I saw an old Afghan come plod-
ding into Spalding (S.A.), with a big case
HOW HE DID THE JOB.
“You cleaned up the top paddick o’ rabbits, did yer? Well, I bin up there, and you
left ’em that thick you couldn't hardly get another one in with a shoe-horn!”
strapped to his back. It was fitted with a
door and shelves, and contained not only
his blankets, cooking gear and tucker, but
an assortment of the goods which ’Ghau
hawkers carry. When we weighed it on the
wheat scales it tipped 1041 b. Azzim ex-
plained that his horses had died, and while
he was away trying to buy others, a fire had
burnt up his van. its contents and a hidden
roll. He had lost everything except the
money which he had placed in his pocket
to pay a deposit on the horses, and he had
used this to buy enough stuff to make a fresh
start. It wasn’t long before the plucky old
beggar had procured another turn-out, for
a cocky let him have an old. drover’s van
and two nags on tick. Every penny was
paid before a year had passed.
“Tangaloki”: The most remarkable case
of weight-carrying in my memories of
90 years happened at Inverell (N.S.W.) in
1872. A woman living a few doors down on
the other side of the street from Colin Ross’s
store bought a 2001 b. bag of flour and
said she would carry it home. Ross said,
“You’ll never do it. Better let me send it-
She retorted, “I’ll carry that bag and
another like it, if you’ll make me a present
of it.” “Done,” said Ross. She balanced a
bag on each hip and won her bet.
* * * *
“Wrash”: One of the famous haunted
houses of Yic. was an ex-pub on the Orbost-
road. A drunk had been killed there 1
in a brawl. When the drinkery was
closed, a nightly thumping along the
decaying verandah was heard by campers,
and reckoned to be the measured strides
of a ghost. In consequence the place
was abandoned by wayfarers. But a snow-
storm one night made Tom Rootsey —who
was armed with a sixshooter and not fearful
of phantoms—seek the shelter of the old
pub. Came a steady tread on the creak-
ing boards, and two big round eyes gleamed
balefully in the dim firelight. Tom blazed
away, and a heavy body thumped on the
boards. It was Mr. Public House’s old
tame emu.
:J: •!• •!•
“C. Coral”: Old records of the Govern-
ment settlement at Somerset, at the top of
Cape York Peninsula, have a bearing on
Black Brother’s attitude towards firearms. At
a period when the authorities were getting
rid of unreliable rifles, the offieer-in-charge
suggested that possibly some of the beche-
de-mering boats which were then working
in Torres Strait might like to purchase
them. Apparently his tip was taken, as a
little later lie reported that the natives of
Cocoanut Island were so proud of their
muskets that they had gone across to a
neighboring island to experiment on the
people there, with the result that there was
a considerable drop in the population. The
official is quite caustic in his comments on
Europeans who sell' guns to natives.
* * * *
“Mako”: Some years ago an eminent
visiting artist, examining the flower paint-
ing of a youthful Maorilander, felt called
upon to speak seriously to the girl painter
on the matter of carelessness in detail. He
pointed out that in an otherwise excellent
representation of the native clematis. the
large white flowers bore petals of varying
numbers, some of them being merely five-
petalled while others had as many as ten.
The girl made no comment, but next day she
invited the painter to inspect a four-foot
spray of clematis, when he was amazed to
note at first-hand one of the peculiarities
of the beautiful bush climber, which
produces blossoms with from six to nine
petals, and occasionally puts in one with
five or fen.
MORE PEACE OUTSIDE.
COP (discovering well-known bibulous citizen): “It’s pretty late, sir. If I were you
I’d go in — you’re home, you know."
DRUNK: “Shanks, of’ fellow. I’ve been in.”
“Onmara” : On July 29, 1853, Lieut.-Gov.
La Trobe addressed a circular letter to early
Vic. settlers requesting information as to the
time and circumstances of the first occupation
of various parts of the colony. Replying to
this, E. P. S. Sturt, a Commissioner of Grown
Lands for the Murray district in 1837, and
afterwards a sheep-farmer, mentioned that in
one of the many caves in his locality he came
across the figure of a man, bent as in
thought, his elbows resting on his knees.
Taking a hand and arm into the open air
for inspection, he found they had the appear-
ance of a mummy, the skin having become
hard and dry, and containing nothing but
dust. As the hour was late, lie left the
mummy, intending to return; but never
found the cave again.
* # * $
“Pandanus”: There was nothing very
remarkable about the diving test in Sydney
Harbor (B. 7/9/532). The diver went down
28 fathoms, remained below for one hour,
and was brought to the surface in four
minutes, though an Admiralty manual says
the ascent should take 101 minutes. Divers
in Torres Strait and North Westralia
come up from 2S or 30 fathoms in about
20 seconds, the diver shutting off the air-
escape valve and inflating the dress, with
the result that he shoots up like a cork.
As regards time spent below, it is a com-
mon thing to remain down at that depth
from an hour and a half to two hours with-
out any ill effects being felt. The only
place where time has entered into considera-
tion was on the grounds around Darnley
Island, where Jap. and Rotumah divers
worked in 40 to 45 fathoms. Five minutes
was allowed for descent, five on the sea bed
and five in ascending, very few cases of
paralysis occurring when this rule was
adhered to.
ij: ❖ H! H:
“N.N.L.”: The account given by “Pan-
danus” (B. 31/8/’32) of the Darnley Island
fishtraps is true in one particular—there are
such traps on Darnley. But the reason fish
are not caught in the traps in the south-east
season is because the rough weather during
that time displaces the stones. “Pandanus’s”
account of the tradition that a whale became
Murray Island is also incorrect. There are
not and never have been whales in these
waters. The story is that Gillam (the lull
on Murray is known as Mount Gillam) left
Moa Island in the west of Torres Strait,
and built for himself a large canoe, shaped
like a dugong to deceive his cruel mother,
Taking all the rich fertile products and soil
from Mo a, he landed where Murray Island
now is. Moa is barren and unfertile and
Murray very fertile, and the shape of
Murray is that of a mountain (Gil-
lam), behind which the hill formation
is exactly the formation of a dugong.
The Great Spirit's name was not Dawa, but
Dauan, the name of the island on which I
live. As regards the statement that no other
island in Torres Strait lias fishtraps,
the Murray Islands have wonderful traps,
photographs of which appear in Dr. Yonge’s
book “The Great Barrier Reef.” Stephen
Island, to the north-west of Darnley, also
has them.
sjt * * . *
“De Carteret”: Some years ago my mate
and I were taken from Los Angeles to
Rancho La Brea to inspect the local asphalt
pits and fossil beds. Although the pits
covered only a few acres the skeletons and
remains have been recovered of 2000 wolves,
2000 sabre-tooth tigers, 20 elephants and
mastodons, 75 horses, 60 camels, 150 buffalo,
60 giant sloths, 20 lions and countless small
beasts and birds of prey. These animals
roamed through North America in the
pleistocene epoch. It is supposed that
the oil in the pools thickened and that the
wind blew sand and dust over the surface,
where it formed a crust. Thus the abyss
below formed a trap, into which huge and
heavy monsters stumbled, and remained
engulfed in a sticky stifling mass of thick
oil, which perfectly embalmed their car-
cases. Their cries and smells attracted
wolves and tigers, who went into feed on
the expiring victims and were themselves
caught in the mire and became baits.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: In these turbulent days
Darwin is glad to get rid of certain mem-
bers of its mixed community at any price, but
years ago any person who owed five pounds
or more and tried to leave the Territory
without paying was liable to arrest. Some
debtors escaped in luggers. Others remained
in pawn, waiting about pubs for remittances
or until an old mate of benevolent disposi-
tion drifted in from the vast emptiness and
redeemed them. Darwin at its best was
not a scintillating centre, but when a man
of roving inclinations was in pawn there
he saw it in its dreariest aspect.
FACING THE OBVIOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like whips of others everywhere, we argue
round the fire at night
On why and wherefore things are crook and
what’s the way to set them right.
Some blame the war, some curse the banks,
and some in acid terms express
Their views of spendthrift Governments
who’ve landed us in such a mess.
And then old Joe puts in his oar among
the fuss and fret and froth:
“Aw, well,” he says, “you gotter cut yer
coat according to yer cloth.”
From tariffs down to bonuses you’ll hear
the hot discussion range;
Some air their views on high finance, some
pin their faith to high exchange.
They’d all give Lyons—Stevens, too —some
points on how to run the show,
You’d reckon if you heard them yap—each
man, that is, excepting Joe.
“Aw, well,” he tells them, “when you're rich
then you can ride in chaises, sure,
Or Chevs.—but, spare me days! you’ve
gotter walk like blazes now you’re poor.”
He can’t do more than read and write; he
had but little schooling, Joe.
His mind’s a blank on all the things profes-
sors know, or think they know.
He has no physic to prescribe, the world of
all its ills to, rid,
But there’s at least one truth he’s grasped,
the same as Samuel Weller did—
That mutton has its uses still, though caper
sauce is off the card,
And beef is beef, no matter if the pungent
horseradish be barred.
We argue round the fire at night; this way
and that the talk will drift
On ways and means that Governments should
take to make depression lift.
Inflation, or whatever it is, his pet specific
each lias got,
His cure-all for a world’s disease, but, singu-
larly, Joe has not.
He hears them all and sums things up, alike
disdaining whine and wrath :
“Aw, well,” he says, “you’ve gotter cut yer
coat according to yer cloth.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station'),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
imU
*3
ll if
ft! ill-
Hu
II:
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this. ,
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain it, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
i&Himealll) Savinas Bank of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11, LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bilk from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in Th/e Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the/Manager, who will
quote you price for the/ original.
SMOKE-OH!
Too many of these Trades Hall fighters
are mere ballot-boxers.
*
“Mr. Norman Lindsay takes the ineffectual love-
affairs of a family of fifty as the basis of his new
novel.”— “Sun."
From “Redheap” to antheap, so to speak.
* *
“Despite the depression, many young Scots are
eager to get to Australia.”
Well, it’s a free country.
“The Prince of Wales plays Yo-Yo with English
matrons.” — “Sunday Sun."
With matrons lie is pleased to tarry
And wield a useful stick at Yo-Yo —
And maidens who aspire to marry
Declare he’s also good, at No-No!
Me.
# *
Some favor a Tall Poppy Day for Lang
appointees.
#
“A million feet of Russian timbre has been dumped
in Australia.” — “Aye."
Surely the Soviet isn’t also after the
world’s verse-markets!
* *
“They crowded through Government House gates
in thousands. Every Sydneyite with ss. to spend
was there.”
They’re now known as Sydney’s Upper
Half-million.
# *
EXACERBATION S.
“The tragedy of it all! What does the future
hold now for this man who is one of the best judges
of cattle in the State?” — Sydney Sunday paper on
the Mackay divorce.
Nor does he stand alone. Mr. .Jas.
Bumbleprink was recently required to Walk
the Dread Gethsemane of the Summons
Court, though on the 8 mark at his golf
club. Despite her membership of the Rose
Bay Middle-aged Set, Miss Christabel
Hootch has just been impelled to Tell her
friends All—in fact, Bare her Soul—in re-
spect of her recently-announced engagement.
He has bolted. Finally, we have the ease
of Mr. Jubbling. “Mene, mene, tekel
upharsin,” said his wife when, he came home
on Monday night. “The Die is Cast; the
Handwriting is on the Wall, and the gas
has been cut off.” Yet Hal Jubbling has
read his “S. M. Herald” regularly for a
quarter of a century! ,
The increase in the number of hikers is
being blamed for the falling-off of pillion-
riders !
¥ ¥
“Vic Auditor-General points out that thousands
have been used unprofitably to subsidise freezing
works. ’ ’ — “Argus. ”
Would these be our celebrated frozen
assets ?
¥ ¥
“The only logical way out is that the excite
duties should be reduced.” — -“Sun" report of vintners’
meeting.
Yet if you reduce the duties you excite
the teetotallers. It’s impossible to satisfy
everybody.
THE PARLIAMENTARY DRAFTSMAN
PROPOSES.
I. WHEREAS and save as hereinafter
provided or as may be HEREAFTER
ESTABLISHED (a) I Nehemiah Pounce
hereinafter referred to as the SUITOR do
hereby formally propose project or sug-
gest to one Ann Smith HEREINAFTER
REFERRED TO as the PROPOSEE mar-
riage or wedlock or connubial bliss provided
(I) That the said PROPOSEE reciprocates
wholly or in part either orally or labially or
in such other manner as may be mutually
determined by the parties that affection or
passion or love which the said SUITOR pro-
fesses and (II) That this offer or proposal
hereby repeals all other such agreements
and contracts which may or may not have
been entered into by the said SUITOR with
certain persons of the same sex as the said
PROPOSEE and (III) That by mutual
consent dates shall be arranged for the com-
mencement of the engagement and the deter-
mination thereof by the performance of the
ceremony hereinafter mentioned (6) That
subject to the provisions of this part of this
Act or proposed Act, the SUITOR and the
PROPOSEE shall at a time to be agreed
upon and before a duly licensed officiating
clergyman or clergymen or such other person
or persons having authority obtain a certi-
ficate of MATRIMONY with the names of
the parties duly affixed thereunto and sub-
ject to the completion thereof the said in-
strument shall be deemed to be the equiva-
lent of a meal-ticket for the duration of the
life of the PROPOSEE or until the prior
demise (if any) of the SUITOR whichever
be the greater or less provided that nothing-
in this section shall affect action taken
under sect'on 14 Henrv VIII. Divorce Act
S 14 B. Ibid 15.
NOTWITHSTANDING WHICH PRE-
SENTS if (1) it appears to be the avowed
intention beforehand or oh due performance
of the contract it becomes the practice
from time to time of the various relatives of
the PROPOSEE and particularly the female
parent to display a predilection for constant
visiting (and in the- case of a mother-in-law
a week-end shall be deemed to mean six
months) then (a) In the former ease the
“‘Y’ oughter take a pleasure in your work ,'
'e says — 'y' oughter delight in cornin’
to work.’”
“Oh! ’E’ll be wantin’ us to pay amuse-
ment tax next.”
proposal or offer shall be: declared summarily
null and void and deemed to all intents
and purposes not to have been made the
parties standing in statu quo and (6) In the
latter case the SUITOR may at his discre-
tion take whatever action he may deem suit-
able to ensure a DISCONTINUANCE of
such visits and failing this he may further
exercise such disciplinary measures as he
may consider expedient.
S. W. Iv.
# *
“Defendant had been in the hotel all day and
was there at closing time.”
He never stirred from the, spot, so to
speak.
V' ¥
“She married only to find that Mr. Postlethwaite
had no money.”
Awful example of taking a man’s, name in
vain.
* V
We hear Bradman is, learning to play the
saxophone in case he has to join the'banned!
* ¥
“The League of Nations is considering altering the
calendar.”
How about abolishing 6 p.m. as a start?
* *
HELPING TRADE.
“Sydney plumbers are demanding that houses he
kept in good repair as regards plumbing. They
look to a Government ordinance to obtain this work
for them.”
Bulks made no complaint when his house
was visited by successive gangs who re-
painted it, re-plumbed it, re-roofed it, re-
drained it, and, finally, re-built it. He
similarly offered no resistance when further
gangs altered his* lawns and flower-beds, or
when a doctor arrived with Government
authority to remove his appendix. He had
his teeth out to aid the dental profession
and compulsorily purchased a car, a print-
ing-press and a couple of tons of cement.
But now he says he’s thinking of leaving
Sydney. Application for State aid has just
been made by the undertakers.
T. B.
* *
“The onlookers applauded vigorously as , the mis-
creants were escorted into the police station.”
It’s known as being clipped into gaol.
¥
“Postman finds house on fire.” —“Brisbane Mail.’’
Apparently one of those illuminated
addresses.
“Father and son once bought each other drinks.
Since their quarrel they no longer do so.”
—Brisbane witness.
It’s well known that a house divided
against itself cannot stand.
* ¥
THE RAILWAYS.
Cleakying Up Needed.
Giving All a Fare Deal.
This.talk about the problem of the N.S.M .
railways makes us sick.
All that is needed is a little Clearying up.
As gunmen sometimes do, take the lares.
Why isn’t there a credit system as in other
lines of business? “Yes, sir,” the booking
clerk would say, respectfully touching ms
forelock, “will you pay for your ticket in
cash or by instalments?” “Oh, tick at; wed
reply, gathering up the brief and moving
quickly out of gunshot.
Another needed reform is that of reduced
fares on race specials for sportsmen who.
often through no fault of then-
own, are not on the dole.
Notices should be placed on
all frosted window’s on the
Melbourne express reminding
commercial travellers that the
Transport Board is not yet
throwing in the towel, and the
other windows might be
cleaned to avoid the confusion
now caused by non-smoking
compartments haying win-
dows with nicotine stains
round the corners and edges.
The frequent clipping of
tickets should be discontinued
to prevent a recurrence of the
recent sad case of the pas-
senger to Bourke who had Ins
ticket clipped completely away
and had to pay another fare:
while fuel conservation could
be achieved by erecting nets to
catch the coals from the en-
gine. The opticians thus
throw’ll out of employment
would be re-ahsorbed into in-
dustry by the increased de-
mand for bootmakers and
chiropodists as a result of the
hiking craze.
Unless the railways can be
made to go by the Board
they will go by the board, and this seems to
be a real opportunity for Board members to
retain their board and lodging.
And then mere’s the hiking side of the
railway business. “Hello,” we picture the
member in charge of hiking saying, over the
’phone, “is that the So-and-so Fruitgrowers
Association? Unless we have your cheque
for £2OO towards our Balance the Bivle'
Fund by noon to-morrow, I’ll turn 10,000
hikers loose in your district on Sunday next.
That’d fetch ’em.
V* V.
* *
“At the children’s session, a Melbourne talkie
theatre distributes cakes for advertising purposes.’
This is the well-known puff pastry.
# *
“The police are hopeful of making an arrest.
Hence the name John Hoptimists.
“Dear me, your dog doesn’t seem to like
me.”
“Oh, how lucky! Do pretend to hit me
—I want to see what he'd do.”
“If you’ve been swindled, smile —then you won’t
feel it.”— “Sun.”
11l eases like these a man is as sold as he
feels.
¥ #
SECRET OF DOMESTIC PEACE.
We arc an independent pair;
No rift beneath our roof occurs.
Sorrow we spurn, gladness we share —
She goes her way, and I go hers!
P. O. M. C.
TICE-REGAL TRIB UTE.
“I noticed that some of the guests were obviously
gaping at the interior of the Vice-Regal home for
the very first time. However, from what I hear,
Sadie Budge was very tactful on the telephone when
inquiries were made for cards!” — “Sun" social expert.
Day after day the urgent telephone
Clamored with undesirables’ demands
For cards that would have brought stern
reprimands,
Not from the Quelphs and GMbellines alone
Who treat this place we live in as their own,
Hut worse, far tvorse, from all the gossip-
hounds
Who follow us upon our daily rounds,
And mention who Should (and should not)
be known.
Ilut ever, like some war-time sentinel,
Staunch Sadie Budge stood by to counteract
the climbers’ tactics; heard their expletives
Without a tremor; struck the dismal .knell
Of all their hopes with firm-lipped negatives;
And stilled their roars of rage with ready
tact,
PETRARCH MINOR.
PEOPLE WE KNOW BUT NEVER SEE.
DAYLIGHT DAVID.
Daylight David’s bedroom at five o’clock
on a cold, raw morning. He and Mrs.
David are buried under the blankets.
The scream of an alarm clock rips the icy
air.
“Dave!” squeaks a querulous female voice.
“Dave!!”
‘ ‘ Grr-ahrr-ork-orr-ow-w-w ! ’ ’
“Dave! Do you hear? Get up!”
“I’ve often been asked to get married.”
“Who asked you?”
“Father and Mother.”
“Err-owsh-ah-gosh ! Wha’s tlx’ time?”
“Gone half-past. You’ll be late if you
don’t hurry. And you never shaved last
night.”
“Why didn’t you make me? ’Struth! A
man’d be better working in the Glaciarium
—or the morgue. Where’s me pants?”
“You’d better look sharp or you’ll miss
the tram, again,” and she retires beneath
the bed-clothes as Dave sprints for the
damp, dark street.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Hullo, hullo, hullo! Cheerio, everybody!
This is Daylight David, speaking from
station G.A.B. Time to get up, folks! The
studio clock is chiming seven. A lovely
morning, too! Sharp, clear, crisp! You
sleepy folk don’t know the real delight, the
thrill of getting up early, ha, ha! Makes
you feel good all over. Bucks you up! I
love it, myself. Best part of my job. Up
you jump, everybody! Girls and boys come
along, now! You too, Dad _ and Mum.
Soon the sausages will be sizzling! Every-
body happy? That’s the stuff! Cheer up,
everybody! It’s good to be alive, these
lovely mornings. I wouldn’t stop in bed for
all the spots in Spotswood. No not for all
the riches in Richmond. Ha! Ha! I want
to live at Coldstream and sing, ‘Greenland s
Icy Mountains.’ Ha, ha, ha! Hooray, every-
body !
“Now -we’ll have, ‘D’ye Ken John Peel
at the Break o’ Day.’ That’s the spirit!’’
As “John Peel” is churned out, David
buttons his overcoat and shudders into ?
chair, cursing dispiritedly.
NORBELL.


ft
N
ft
\
/•'
m
V
%//
?//
r#
&
ir^
s' s&k
~.^*r
m.
m
%
n
I
V'\
rfgr
\ w
\
«s<s»
K
<SV<**3 /•,,,.
M / / •
s|p : ' f fj
stmt
/?
/ate**
df
SSh,
✓ s >
*■-.
/
Si
;•>•••;:
X. \
Ml
CORK AND PLA I
the Capstan Twain
owns i n smart new styles
The beach girl looks a pet
And does she love the Capstan Twain?
Well ten to one's the bet!
lO to 1 its a
CAPSTAN
c *Ps
tam
‘
%
CUT)
Oto
tV/
fa
tty.
fa
4685>8-io-2
10/U'-
Also in Round Hermetically
Sealed Airtight Tins of 50,
and Boxes of 50 and 100.


Thousands of “Alloy”
Ploughshares have been
sold during the past few
months, giving outstanding
results.
A
Write for the “Alloy”
Ploughshare Booklet and
read of its superior per-
formance in all parts of
N.S.W.
QUALITY
Surmounting all
Ploughshare
Troubles of the Past,
EXCELS ALL OTHERS.
No Relaying or
Repointing Required.
99
O
ECONOMY
Leading Farmers
Advise they are
NON-CLOGGING,
LONG WEARING,
DRAUGHT SAVING
AND UNBREAKABLE.
STEEL PLOUGHSHARES
Made from the Toughest Abrasion and Shock-resisting ALLOY STEEL known to Metallurgical Science, now available to the man on the
land, at a competitive price, by the introduction of OUR NEW PATENTED MANUFACTURING PROCESS.
FROM AUSTRALIAN MATERIALS—BY AUSTRALIAN LABOR—FOR AUSTRALIAN FARMERS .
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
AUSTRALIAN ALLOY STEEL LIMITED
WORKS:
BOURKE ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W,
TELEGRAPHIC & CABLE ADDRESS:
“ALLOYSTEEL,” SYDNEY.
REG. OFFICE:
3 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COUNTRY AGENCIES AVAILABLE
SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
Sunshine Auto Header.
Sunshine Header Harvester.
Sunshine Stripper Harvester.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self-Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to the acre.
Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the bagging on the
bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the maximum yield of grain
from every condition of crop, heavy or light, storm-flattened or weed-infested.
It is Quick, Efficient and Economical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10 ft. cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick up and
successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-choked crops.
They are equally effective in clean standing crops, whether heavy or light,
on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the machine
can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated to drive the
mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for this purpose
a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft. machine. In conse-
quence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L., Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six horses
in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum. Successfully
harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting—6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray
and King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, Posted Free on Request.


DOUBLE
GEARED
ffiUV
BILLABONG
ENCLOSED
GEAR
WINDMILL 1932
THE BEST THING YET IN WINDMILLS.
If you are thinking of installing a Windmill it will
be well worth while to learn all about the New
Enclosed Gear Billabong, a Double-geared powerful
and easy-running Mill designed and constructed to
give many extra years of Service.
Some of the many Special Features of the New
Billabong Windmill—Double Geared, Ball Bearings
on the Main Shaft, Ball-bearing Race on the Tower
Cap, Self Oiling, Totally Enclosed.
Descriptive Folder Post Free on Request.
WROUGHT-IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS—ALL
SIZES AT LOWEST PRICES.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. C.l.
334-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MODEL
SELF-
OILING
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
GRASPERS OF OPPORTUNITIES.
“S. Hill”: A resourceful Ahc. carpenter,
out of work six months, had enough cash
saved to buy nine cows. He heard there
was plenty of green grass on roadsides and
lanes in the Koo-wee-rup district, and went
there Avith his little herd, a covered van
and a separator, set in a suitable room.
Tailing up his cows by day and milking
them night and morning, he is making about
eight shillings per cow per week from cream
supplied to a butter factory, besides milk
and cream for the family and milk for eight
calves and a couple of porkers. He calcu-
lates his earnings at over £4 a week and no
rent, land tax or rates to pay. He is saving
up to buy a few acres of his own.
“Cornstalk”: Nambucea River (N.S.W.)
dairymen grinned Avhen they heard that
Farmer Provost and his son were wrestling
with a “poor” swampy area, infested with
Paddy’s lucerne, a mile beloAV the township
of Macksville. They knew him for a good
farmer, but thought that in this case he had
bitten off more than he could chew. But
Provost .systematically grubbed, ploughed
and subdivided his block (he is nothing if
not thorough), and sowed it Avitli a mixture
of perennial, Italian and Wimmera rye
grasses. It was a dry winter on the South
Coast, but Provost had a remarkable growth
of pasture, whereas 90 per cent, of the dis-
trict farmers were without fodder.
Not being ready for dairying, Provost
advertised grass for sale. He didn’t have
to wait for customers. EAmry type of vehicle,
from the two-ton lorry to the common slide,
even bags, were brought into requisition.
It kept the Provosts busy scything. No
sooner had they cut out a paddock than it
was ready to start again ; and off one pad-
dock of six acres £6O was cleared. Soavii in
the early autumn, Italian and Wimmera rye
can be cut or fed off many times before the
spring, when the last growth is allowed to
seed. This, with the perennial type sown,
will eventually “make” the paddocks; an
application of super, and sulphate of ammonia
works miracles. Provost knew this; others
didn’t. They are not laughing at him now.
GROWING SEED FOR SALE.
Reference was made in B. 5/10/’32 to
A. W. S. Moodie’s “Agricultural Gazette”
article recommending N.S.W. farmers to
grow seed of pasture plants for sale. No
doubt the Minister will have the article
reprinted in pamphlet form ; the advice given
is sound, and many a farmer can add to his
income by following it. For, as Mr. Moodie
points out, ' seed-production can be carried
on in' addition to dairying, sheep-raising and
the groAving of crops; and if groups of
farmers in faAmrable localities worked to a
plan they could save on machinery, bags and
fertilisers, facilitate inspection of crops by
buyers, and perhaps earn for their neighbor-
hood a reputation for producing good strains
of grass and clover in steady demand.
With ordinary luck and proper care a
seed crop can be got every year after the
first. The land should be easily worked and
free from obstructions; the soil should be
well prepared, and a fine, firm seed-bed
formed, free from weeds. Well-worked fal-
low on which weeds have been eliminated
by cultivation as they appeared is recom-
mended. Sowing should be carried out in
the autumn (Mr. Moodie gives rates of seed-
ing for individual grasses), using 1 to 2 cwt.
super, per acre.. Grazing may be commenced
as soon as sufficient growth has been made;
the grazing periods should be short and well
regulated. Heavier stocking will be neces-
sary in the spring, as it is not desirable to
allow the crop to form seed during the first
season. If seeding cannot be controlled by
grazing, the mower should be used. During
the summer and in the following autumn
and winter, ordinary grazing should be car-
ried out. Then the paddocks shoidd be
elosed up for seed production in the early
spring, top-dressing with sulphate of am-
monia (lewt. per acre) being first given to
increase the yield of seed and assist the
grass to combat weed growth.
After cutting by hand or with the mow r cr
or reaper and binder, the material is raked
into Avindrows and cocked or made into
stooks, then allowed to dry; after which it
is stacked in the field for threshing or carted
to the barn. Threshing may be done by
hand if the quantity is small, the material
being then sieved and “Avinded.” A grain
thresher with special blast and sieves is
more satisfactory, or a harvester rigged up
as a stationary thresher may be used. The
seed may then require winnowing before it
is ready for sale. In the case of clovers, a
clover huller is necessary for threshing.
According to Mr. Moodie, local merchants
are willing to handle locally-produced seed,
provided they are assured of regular sup-
plies which can meet imported seed on an
equal basis as to quality and price. Also
the department is prepared to consider a
scheme of seed certification such as M.L.
has.
DAIRY-FARMING INLAND.
“L.R.G.”: The yearly wheat, wool and fat-
lamb cheques having decreased until little or
no margin was left for the grower, farmers
and graziers of the Central West (N.S.W.)
cast envious eyes on the monthly cheques of
the dairy-farmers, with the result that in-
creasing numbers are establishing dairying
herds. The majority are employing share-
farmers. One dairy in the Narromine dis-
trict so worked is milking 100 cows. Cream
was sent to Blayney until the Macquarie
Valley butter factory was opened at Welling-
ton last month. Another factory is in course
of construction at Dubbo. When this is
available the industry is expected to extend
westward to Nyngan. Seemingly a small
beginning, but Byron Bay in 1895 produced
only 615,4081 b. of butter, valued at £7501;
by 1930 the value was £2 5 <0,808..
If over-capitalisation is the main cause of
failures in farming and grazing, no. such
charge can be laid against western dairying.
Even in boom years excellent grazing pro-
perties could be bought for £5 per. acre.
Compared with the value of coastal dairying
land this gives the west an advantage,
not offset by periodical droughts and bush-
fires. After such come sweet natural grasses
lacking on the coast; moreover these new
dairy-farmers are alive to the necessity for
fodder conservation, and river or sub-artesian
water is available for the irrigation of
lucerne. Should the near future see the
Burrendong dam constructed, an immense
area in the Macquarie valley will be avail-
able for dairying, and wheat-farmers and
graziers will misli farther west to the cheaper
lands. Let the coast look to its laurels!
SOMETHING DIFFERENT IN PITS.
“Valeria” :Visiting Walntabadgery (N.S.W.)
station, I saw something different in ensil-
age pits, and came away convinced that it
is less wasteful than the ordinary trench
pit with the long sloping ends.
The Wantabadgery pit is about 78ft. long,
18ft. wide and 9ft. deep. Sides and ends
are perpendicular, the earth being taken out
by narrow roadways made at each corner
and stacked at each end; these roadways are
used to bring in the green stuff, and when
required to take out the ensilage. The stack
is built 16ft. above the level of the ground,
the earth being scooped in at the ends to
make a ramp for the carts to go on top of
the stack. On completion the green stack is
covered with earth to the depth of two
feet and sinks dowm to about six feet ; and
when opened the silage is packed so tightly
that the end exposed to the weather suffers
practically no deterioration. A. pit of this
size holds over 300 tons of ensilage.
HARVESTING LUCERNE.
“Albarmount” : Lucerne hay is frequently
impaired in quality and weight through leav-
ing it too long in the paddock after cutting.
The hay becomes harsh, dry and brittle; it
loses nutritive value, some of the leaf and
about a third of the weight, and usually
fetches a low price. On the other hand
stacking too green will cause sweating—•
this doesn’t matter for home feeding, but is
undesirable for market purposes—or it may
smoke and eventually burn.
During the dry summer heat several
Mudgee (N.S.W.) growers cut a patch in
the morning and have it in the stack or shed
by evening. But ever-changing weather con-
ditions will not admit of hard-and-fast
rules being laid down as to how long the
lucerne should be left in the paddock; it is
just a matter of experience and careful
judgment. My notion is that it should be
cut in the pre-bloom stage and stacked before
it becomes too dry, and yet not green enough
to sweat.
SUNFLOWERS HAVE MANY USES.
“James”: Yes, sunflowers make good en-
silage (B. 5/l-0/’32) ; and there are other
uses to which they can be put. If allowed
to mature a crop of medium quality should
yield more than a ton of seed per acre, and
the price would be very low if less than
£l2 per ton were obtained. A farmer in
the Shepparton (Vic.) irrigation area grows
sunflowers on his channel banks and col-
lects enough seed to supply himself and his
neighbors with fowl feed/ From a bushel
of seed a gallon of oil can be made; this
oil is used extensively in Europe for various
purposes. In Russia sunflower seeds are
made up into a popular sweetmeat, the
leaves are used for stock fodder and the
stalks are burnt for their high yield of
potash.
In the cooler districts, October is the
best month to sow —three feet apart each
way, 81b. to 101 b. to an acre. There are two
principal types of the large Russian variety,
the black seeded and the grey or striped.
When growing for seed see that a mixture
of the two varieties is not planted, as this
will lower the value of the sample for sel-
ling purposes. The seeds are easily re-
moved from the heads, which are cut from
the plant when mature.
CORRIEDALES FOR QUEENSLAND.
“Liss”: “Emerald’s” experimenter with
Corriedale rams (B. 5/10/’32) can get both
bulk and weight into the fleeces of his merino
ewes without having recourse to a “small
wrinkly” type of merino ram.
That class of ram may add weight to the
covering of his progeny, never bulk, being,
as a rule, comparatively short _ but very
dense. There are merino studs in N.S.W.
and S. Aus. breeding rams of greater body
weight, and cutting heavier fleeces, than the
average Corriedale; moreover, quality would
not suffer in any way if selected rams from
one of these studs, being merinos, were used.
On the contrary, since “Emerald” speaks of
“small low-cutting” sheep, the quality may
already be anything but good and could only
stand to be considerably improved. No good
results can be achieved without capable
classing of the ewes and the selection of
the right type of rams.
“Emerald’s” friend is apparently attempt-
ing a short-cut. In sheep-breeding there is
no such thing. Patience, time and more
patience are required. Corriedales, even
when pure-bred, are difficult to keep true
to type, and must, in consequence, cause
unevenness for some considerable time. I
lived for years on the open Mitcliell-grass
downs of n.-w. Q. but never saw many flocks
of the fine-quality, light-cutting merinos
which “Emerald” says are predominant
there. I consider the average wool of those
parts to be a medium, running finer with
age, and the cut per head in normal seasons
to be above the average. I have known
many flocks of wethers cut from 111 b. to
141 b., and once had to do with a flock of
S. Aus. blood ewes, bred in the North, which
reared 84 per cent, lambs and cut 11/lb.
to boot. That cannot be improved on any-
where.
THE SHOWER-BATH DIP.
“Sativa”: Tell “McNoon” (B. 21/9/'32)
\ny sheep are immersed in my show T er-bath
lipping process—so efficiently that 12 months
later they are free from lice and ticks. The
way the dipping is done turns the trick.
Careless work in countless plunge dips
accounts for the inroads that lice and ticks
have made in our flocks; that’s not dipping
at all.
To erect a standard plunge dip to-day may
be beyond the means of most small flock
men. But one sees so many short-length
plunge dips, where sheep are shoved through
a doubtful liquid in a few seconds, to
become verminous before the next shearing.
With my treatment the stuff that kills
vermin is retained in wool and skin; the
water that drains off does not contain suffi-
cient insect poison to kill a fly, and. being
fouled, is not again used. Can this be
claimed for plunge dips?
BRANDING OF SCOURED WOOLS.
“Legup”: Growers sending portion of
their clip to country scours where the man-
ager is known to be conversant with selling
conditions should let him brand the scoured
wool. Numerous cases could be cited where
scoured “BIvN” should have had a fleece
brand, the wool being fleece to all intents
and purposes. The most frequent fault,
however, is branding as “Scoured Stained
Pieces” wool which is quite a good color.
It does not follow that because stained
pieces enter the scouring machine as such
they emerge likewise; this wool should be
branded “Pieces.” Another case is that of
wool branded “Locks” where the wool is
bulky; it should be branded “Pieces.”
Intelligent branding of scoured wool is
advisable because, for one reason, many
operators with orders for scoured fleece dare
not buy wools branded “BKN.” Others hold-
ing orders for scoured pieces wrnuld have to
pass wool branded “Stained Pieces” or
“Locks.” although the wool itself would suit
the type required.
THE BATHURST-BTTRR CURSE.
“Safiva”: My neighbor’s shearing cos*
him an extra £25 this year for broken combs
and cutters (he’d arranged with the shearers
beforehand), caused through the sheep being
smothered in Bathurst burl’s. Many shearers
dealing with burry sheep lighten the load
on the overhead friction drive by making a
suitable adjustment there. It slows down
their speed, but often avoids a cot case from
a flying handpiece that has jambed with a
burr. Incidentally, it shouldn’t be beyond
the skill of some Australian engineer to
fashion a comb proof against Bathurst burr.
The increase of this noxious weed has
been considerable in the Merriwa district
of N.S.W. these last three years. Some pad-
docks are so infested that the cost of eradi-
cation would be more than they are worth.
Burrs don’t thrive on heavily-grassed coun-
try, so when they are in control it may pay
to let them remain that w r ay until the
natural grasses return and smother them.
This the grasses will do if given sufficient
time.
Overstocking and rabbits are the burr’s
best friends. In tackling it a man in my
district uses two horses in a mowing-
machine with a liorse-rake to follow: he
then burns the burrs by sprinkling them
with kerosene. Another employs a priekly-
pear outfit and sprays with sulphuric acid
and arsenic. I believe in getting at burrs
early in the season, hoeing them right out
before they seed, and lightly stocking to give
the grass a chance. Burr-cutting requires
picked men, as many workers soon become
burr-blind and miss more than they cut.
BULK-HANDLING FOR WESTRALIA.
“Salmon Gum”: In his haste to prove me
wrong “Soustralian” (B. 28/9/’32) over-
looks the fact that super, soils trucks. To
carry wheat in soiled trucks would be a
risky procedure in Westralia, where water
for cleaning is scarce in summer. My re-
marks referred solely to the western State,
which depends largely for its export trade
on Egypt, India and China. Those coun-
tries prefer bagged wheat.
An opponent of bulk-handling in West-
ralia is the manager of the Midland Railway
Co., operating in a large wheat-growing area.
To accuse such an authority of basing ms
objections on ignorance of the facts of wheat
transport would be ridiculous. “Soustralian’’
fails to realise that the question has two
sides. No doubt farmers in all countries
will benefit if bulk-handling becomes uni-
versal ; but the small cocky, who is in the
majority in Westralia, will be put to much
inconvenience, and, in some cases, extra ex-
pense, if the changeover is effected in a hurry.
DAMS FOR SMALL HOLDINGS.
“Buenba”: On a small holding a good
garden may be made to yield the half of a
family’s living. But in our climate you
can’t have a good garden without a water
supply; and on small holdings the obtaining
of such a supply often seems beset with such
difficulties that the attempt is not made
Yet in 50 years of fairly wide experience I
have never seen a place where a sufficient
supply could not be got with small expense.
The least-used but most-gener ally-avail-
able means is the making of small dams in
commanding positions. Where the country
is not absolutely flat it is nearly always
possible to find a site for a small dam, into
which the run-off from a few acres can be
led by wing-drains, and from which water
may be piped into the garden at a small
expense (one of the best gardens I ever saw,
and that on a bed of thirsty black sand, was
kept in order with a half-inch pipe). A fall
of about 50ft. is an ideal one, but much
more or much less will serve. Bear in mind
that water can be used more economically
with a high head than a low one.
Any spot, with a retentive subsoil will
provide a site for such a storage. The exca-
vation can be made with a plough—prefer-
ably a single-furrow—and a scoop. Plough
up the surface soil and scoop it along to
form the outside of the wall, then dig in.
remembering that the deeper the dam in pro-
portion to its surface area the less will be
the loss by evaporation. A storage that
would supply 30 to 40 head of cattle through
an ordinary summer should be ample. This
dam water will bo found much better for
irrigation than well water usually is. Sheep,
if given access, will do good work in con
solidating the wall.
The only economical way of using a
water supply so limited is through pipes,
thoroughly soaking the area commanded by
each stand-pipe in turn, and then, wherever
possible, keeping the surface raked into a
mulch.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Would saltbush thrive in my district
( Upper Burnett, Q. ) f (2) Where can I
get seed? (3) At what time should seed be
planted? —23s9.
(1) Yes. (2) Yates and Go., Sydney.
(3) In the spring months.
(Continued on next page.)


m «
sv i ,/mh
x-
m
XT?/ \ r 7
M
Buy this boot for
extra wear
It’s double-soled with the
toughest Australian Leather. It’s
supple and doesn’t strain in any
position because the upper is
designed in a curve that lies
closely and easily over the instep
arch. Every muscle of the foot
is allowed full play. And the
ankle is cut to fit neatly and
avoid all bulging.
ORDER BY POST.
Narro.w, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one
of the handy cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 303
CO
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
'Swan* Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/-*
•Swan' Minors from 15/-, ‘Blackbird* Pen*
from 10/-, ‘Swan’ Ink from 6d. per bottle*
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London & Liverpool*
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot ?
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MADE IN
ENGLAND
a (a)
Rememberfpuse SWAN INK
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary : R. V. BOOTH.
WHEN IT'S AN...
Ml
mmmm
ir
QT^
!!#<£>}«!— Ml
E.C.X. 2
which trans-
lated and edited
for publication
means . . . why
didn’t I get an
Exide.
Obtainable from &xide Service
Stations or your ffa rage.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.);
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth-M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
Cure for rickets in cattle caused through
eating samia hush? —2007.
When rickets have been present some time
there is little, if any, hope for a recovery.
Recovery, however, will often result follow-
ing the removal of cattle on to pasture free
of burrawang immediately symptoms or
zamia poisoning are noted. Affected animals
should be placed on plenty of good green
feed or wholesome nutritious laxative diets.
Eradication of burrawang plants will obvi-
ously prevent the occurrence of this form
of rjekets.
One of my Jersey cows has developedl
warts on the teats. Any cure? —2332.
Such warts, if small, will sometimes dis-
appear if kept soft by daily applications of
castor oil. If they do not yield to this treat-
ment it may be necessary to remove them
by the application of caustics, or, better
still, with a pair of sterile scissors. In this
event, however, it is recommended to first
dry the cow off.
On this page (24/8/’32) “Dunboy" says
a rabbit, fumigator using calcium. cyanide
powder costs from 15s. upwards. Name of
fumigator, and where obtainable? —2034.
Name is Cyanogas Duster, probably
stocked by Vic. and N. S. Wales agents for
Cyanamid Sales Co. “Dunboy,” who writes
from Westralia, says the price quoted, 155.,
was somewhat misleading, as lie procured
his machine through a local Road Board
which was subsidising such purchases. The
retail price in other States should not be
more than fl.
(1) Is it possible to procure limes here
similar to the kind that grow in Colombo,
smaller than lemons and green? (2) Would
the trees grow on the N.S.W. coast, near
Sydney ? —2329.
(1) They are obtainable from E. P. Rosen
and Son, of Carlingford, under the name
of “Tahiti limes.” They are prolific bearers
of fruit, having very thin rind, and are
practically seedless. (2) Hasn’t been tried,
so far as is known, but the trees will thrive
iii situations where there is little or no
frost. They are less hardy than lemons.
(1) Would it be injurious to hold a
turkey which has been sitting for three
weeks upside-down for a space of two or
three seconds? (2) If it had a drink of
separated milk, would this be likely to cause
death? (3) Is separated milk harmful to
poultry? —24ls.
(1) and (2) No. * (3) Skim milk is
beneficial to all poultry, but as it quickly
becomes contaminated it is better to mix
the milk with mash than to give it separately.
I owe a N.S.W. storekeeper money for
goods supplied, I gave him a lien over my
1931 crop, but have given none since. Can
he charge me interest? —2467.
The lien does not affect the matter. The
usual trade custom with regard to overdue
accounts is to intimate to the customer that
after a specified date interest, usually at
5 p.c., will be charged on the amount overdue.
What tax is payable on a motor-lorry
carrying goods in competition with the
N.S.W. railways ? —2491.
Exceeding 50 miles, 3d. per ton per mile for
the competitive mileage, based on the weight
of the vehicle fully laden. A motor-truck
with a tare of 3 tons and a maximum carry-
ing capacity of 4 tons conveying goods 80
miles would pay £7.
Have any native Australian plants medi-
cinal properties ? —2440.
The barks of sassafrases and the whole plant
of the little pink-flowered native centaury
have been used as tonics. The properties of
plants which show a pronounced indication
of the presence of alkaloidal substances,
among them fever bark, pituri, corkwood,
asthma herb and sarsaparilla, have been
investigated. Numerous other Australian
plants have been mentioned as possibly con-
taining medicinal substances.
How can I prevent a crack from extend-
ing in a piece of metal? —2462.
If there is room, and the operation will
not make the metal appreciably weaker, drill
a hole just where the crack ends. First
moisten the surface with oil, then wipe it
and immediately rub it with chalk. The oil
that has penetrated into the crack exudes
and thus indicates precisely where the crack
stops.
Is there any truth in the belief that goanna
oil can percolate through glass containers?
—2497.
It cannot percolate through glass, but, like
most oils, it will “creep” up the neck of a
bottle and, by capillary action, get past any
kind of stopper which is not secured by
sealing-wax. It then spreads on the out-
side of the container.
(1) Where could I have samples of lubri-
cating oils analysed? (2) What quantity
would be needed for a sample in-each case?
(3) What charge ? —2335.
(1) Apply to Superintendent of Testing
and Inspection Dept., Public Works Dept.,
Sydney. (2) One quart. (3) £2 10s. per
sample.
I used insectibane on my retriever dog to
destroy fleas, and now his hair won't grow.
Remedy? —24os.
If the roots of the hair have been destroyed
no treatment will be of any avail. A pre-
paration of tincture of cantliarides made up
in olive oil may be tried. Any chemist will
mix the solution. Try it on a small patch,
first rubbing it into the skin gently for a
minute or so. Do not use it over large sur-
faces at any time.
What species of tree is the coolibah?
Where docs it grow, and is it true that its
presence is an indication of water? —2422.
Coolibah is the aboriginal name of Euca-
lyptus microtheca, common in the interior
of Australia from the north-west to the
Murray and the Cloncurry. It grows along
watercourses, and in the region neighboring
the Gulf of Carpentaria is known as “flooded
box.” On the arid inland plains its pres-
ence is a sign of water, if not on the sur-
face at least not far below it. The name
is also loosely used for other eucalypts, and
sometimes for a relative of the eucalypts.
How to tan wallaby skins so as to leave
them soft and pliable? —2344.
The skin should be soaked in several
changes of water. Use 31b. salt per lOgal.
of water after washing out blood. The
time allowed for soaking is 24hr. to 481ir. for
the average fur skin at summer temperatures.
In winter the skins should be left in clean
salt solutions for several days. The skin
should be brought to the soft condition re-
quired before it is placed in the tan liquors.
Scrape off all flesh and fat during the soak-
ing period. After tanning the skin should
be washed and liberally coated with oil on
the flesh side. Dry slowly in a shed. W hen
dry stretch the skin by scraping it on the
flesh side.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Noel R.”: Before you start digging on
that private irrigation scheme, take care
with the levels. Fairly good results are
possible with a straight-edge and a spirit-
level ; but a dumpy level is better. It it is
“out of collimation” get someone who knows
to fix it for you. .
“Agri”: Good charcoal can be burnt in a
trench about 12ft. long, 3ft. deep (or deepei
if desired), about 3ft. wide on top and
ilSin. at bottom. The wood may be cut into
6ft. lengths. As it burns, the coals tall
down and pack in the bottom, and as more
wood is added, the trench gradually fills.
After a couple of hours’ burning in this
way, more wood is piled on the blaze and
the' pit is ready to seal. Water-soaked bags
or sheet-iron may be used, with earth shov-
elled over the whole to prevent leakage.
Such a pit will yield 20' bags of hard, black
charcoal, excellent for producer-gas work.
“Mundowie”: A Bathurst man got good
results by putting goannas on a populous
rabbit warren, which was enclosed with
wire-netting. They went into the burrows
and drove or dragged out. the inmates. None
of the dead was left on the ground for the
gos. to eat; the carcases were thrown out
or burnt, which, kept the lizards hunting.
When it appeared that the pest had been
exterminated, the reptile bailiffs were trans-
ferred to another warren, water being always
provided for them.
“Kooragai”: The dragon-fly, commonly
known as “horse-stinger,” is often, regarded
as an enemy. But the long-bodied, opal-
winged creature has no sting, and is a friend
to Dobbin in that it preys on the insects
that annoy him. It hovers along river-
sides and over dams, dealing death to flies,
mosquitoes and other pests. In the larva
stage, under water, it feeds voraciously on
the larvae of mosquitoes.
“Mulgo” : If flies pester the eyes of work-
ing horses, mix a little carbolic acid with
vaseline —in the proportion of one to 10 —
and smear round the eyes when harnessing
the horses. Or try it with castor oil. Out-
back, during fly-plague times, men smear
their own eyes with olive oil.
“Willeroo”: The best device I have seen
for curing a horse of kicking: Buckle two
strong reins to the headstall, pass thern
through rings lew down on a surcingle, and
buckle them round the horse’s hind feet.
Every time he kicks with either foot .he
gives his head a nasty jerk. It is particu-
larly useful for horses that have a habit
of kicking in their stalls or at other horses
feeding beside them.
“Ivaraway” : When you shoot flying-foxes
don’t throw them away to breed blowflies;
bury them under the fruit trees. They are
a useful fertiliser. On a fox camp hundreds
can be shot, and when not far away it pays
to cart them home —to enrich the orchard
and improve the poor patches on the farm.
Run a furrow or two with the plough, drop
them in and turn another furrow on to them.
‘T.K.7”: Rabbits cut into three or four
pieces with an axe and boiled until shreddy
are good for fowls. A bucketful every
second day will be enough for 50 hens, and
is a substitute for meat-meal. Pigs relish
well-cooked rabbit also.
“Gumblegubbin”: When growing winter
and early-spring crops, I run the drills north
and south, so that every row gets an equal
share of the sun. In summer I run them
east and w’est; then all the roots, with the
exception of the outside row on the north,
get the maximum of shade and the soil re-
tains the moisture much longer.
“Wandi”: Don't plant crops that are
grown in rows, such as potatoes, maize,
beans, etc., up and down on sloping ground.
During heavy rain the water runs down
between the rows, and the soil erosion is
considerable. When planted across the
slope, the rows prevent channels, and there
is no erosion. Because the road is almost
invariably along the top, drill-crops are
usually sown the wrong way for convenience
in working, but the convenience is expensive.
“Odd Job”: Tin wall-lamps are apt to
develop holes, and when you are back of
nowhere it’s a curse. Get a 21b. treacle
billy and wasli it well. Mark the lid with
the exact size of the burner —where it screws
into the lamp—and cut a hole just a shade
smaller. Jamb the burner in tight; and
you’re set for a lasting bowl for your kero-
sene. The filling is done by prising the
lid off. Punch a nail-hole in the lid for
air. You can hang them, have them port-
able or on a bracket. They last for ages.
If you want an old-man lamp use a 71b. billy.
“T.K.7”: For attaching a cork to a water-
bag, take a cotter-pin about Jin. longer than
the cork. Slip it through the end link of
a piece of chain (the kind they chain cocka-
toos up with does nicely), and push it
through a hole bored down centre of cork.
Slip a small washer over the end, and splay
ends slightly. Hook other end of chain to
leather of bag, and there it is.
“Wandi”: A Yankee experiment station
has been investigating the value of skim
milk for chooks, and tests indicate that the
milk and maize alone make a satisfactory
laying ration. One made up to 70 p.c. maize,
30 p.c. oats and skim milk increased pro-
duction over the maize and skim-milk ration ;
whilst the substitution of wheat for the oats
resulted in still more eggs, and proved the
best ration for laying hens. Fowls, by the
way, arc fond of thick milk, and this could
be mixed with grain. In the tests mentioned,
sour skim milk as. well as fresh was used,
but mainly kept before the fowls as a drink.
“Werrimee”: Splitters have different
opinions as to the best wood for a maul
head, but in my experience the most impor-
tant thing is the fitting of the rings and
handle. Any tough, heavy hardwood is suit-
able when properly made, the most durable
being spurwood and a curly-grained limb of
an ironbark. For handle I like a tough, un-
pared stick, such as a black myrtle, a quince
sucker, or the stem of a wild lime.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy “Germination In Its Electrical Aspect,” by
Baines.—2sl2.
To buy E. J. Brady’s “The Ways of Many Waters”
and “The House of the Winds.” —2509.
To exchange 3a Kodak, combination back for
plates or films, for double extension ’-plate camera.
—2482.
Words of “Rio Grande,” by Sacheverell Sitwell.
—2501.
Gentlewoman (30), Sydney, shorthand-writer,
typist, book-keeper, housekeeper and can teach ordi-
nary school subjects, wants position in N.S.W. Refs.
—2531.
Married man, business and clerical exp., wants
employment, will instal books or assist in any
way.—2546.
Whereabouts of Fred Wilson, last heard of at
Orbost .(Vic.), sleeper-cutting.—2s2B.
To buy Todhunter’s “Treatise on the Integral
Calculus,” second-hand. —2549.
Information Sought.
(1) In what. Australian States are the
professions of barrister and solicitor amal-
gamated? (2) What is the 'position in the
Federal Capital Territory? (3) Is there
a Supreme Court at Canberra, and who may
plead before it? —23so.
(1) Vic., S.A., W.A., and Tas. As a rule,
one member of a firm practises as a bar-
rister and the other, or others, attend to
the conveyancing and business side as soli-
citors; but they may practise as either or
both. (2) Federal judicial powers are exer-
cised by the High Court. The enforcement
of Federal legislation is carried out through
the local Courts of the States, the High
Court having appellate jurisdiction from the
Supreme Court of each State. (3) There
is no Supreme Court in Canberra. The
qualification to practise before the _ High
Court is the qualification to practise in the
State Courts.
In the Davis Cup match between France
and U.S.A. was the umpire correct in allow-
ing Borotra to change his shoes three times
during a set? —2492.
No; the stoppages were breaches of the
rule dealing with continuous play. The last
respite enabled Borotra to recover his wind
after eight hard games.
The beneficiaries under a will in N.S.W.
have strong personal objections to the execu-
tors. Can they get other executors appointed?
2431.
They could apply to the Equity Court
for the removal of the present executors,
but the Court would require very conclusive
evidence of their unfitness before it would
intervene.
Value of and number of persons leaving
estates in ,N. S. Wales during the ten years
to June 30 last? —2450.
Under £lOOO, 39,830, value. £14,412,742;
£lOOO to £5OOO, 21,424 persons and
£43,096,532; £5OOO to £12,500, 4554 persons
and £34,951,204; £12,500 to £25.000. 1863
persons and £31,079,947 ; £25,000 to £50,000,
708 persons and £24,970,715; over £50,000,
405 persons and £43,676,111. Total number
of deceased persons leaving property on which
probate was granted, 68,784; total value of
estates of deceased persons, £192,187,311.
(1) How many flying boats of the Dornier
DOX type have been built? (2) Are they
employed in useful work• if so, where? (3)
What are their length, span, chord, tonnage
(net and gross ) and how are they powered?
—2168.
(1) Two have been constructed and one
is being built. (2) Information not avail-
able. (3) All DOX ’planes have same dimen-
sions : length. 131 ft. 4in.; span, 157 ft. sin.;
chord, 31ft.' 2in.; 62,1001 b. to 66,0001 b.
tare weight; 101,2001 b. to 114.4001 b. gross
weight. DOX 1A is equipped with 12 Cur-
tiss “Conqueror” 610-h.p. motors. DOX 2,
12 Fiat 630-li.p. motors. The original DOX
was the same machine asDOX IA, powered
with 12 Siemens “Jupiter” 500-h.p. motors.
What qualifications are necessary to
applicants for family endowment in N. S.
Wales? —2307,
Endowment is payable where the family
income for the 12 months prior to the date
of lodgment of a claim was not more than
the basic wage, with £l3 added for each
child but one in the family under the age
of 14 years. A claim may be lodged by a
person who is maintaining at least two chil-
dren under the age of 14 years. The claim-
ant must have resided in N.S.W. for a
continuous period of two years.
Where teas the first soo in Australia? —
2490.
A showman named Billings brought out a
collection of animals which he exhibited on
vacant land off College-street, Sydney, in
the early ’fifties. The boom in Victoria
caused him to go there; Dr. Black,
F. M. Selwyn and Captain Storey were the
prime movers in securing 30 acres near the
Yarra, opposite the Botanical Gai’dens, and
making arrangements with Billings for the
acquisition of his animals. Billings was en-
gaged as keeper. In the ’sixties the collection
of 136 quadrupeds and 324 birds was moved
to the Royal Park site.
Difference between an alligator and a
crocodile? —2369.
Generally speaking, the snout of the alli-
gator is shorter, broader and more l’ounded
than that of the crocodile. In the croco-
dile the fourth tooth of the lower jaw bites
into a groove on the outside of the upper
jaw, while in the alligator it fits, into a
pit and is concealed by the lips. In croco-
diles the upper teeth interlock with the
lower; in alligators the upper teeth bite
on the outer side of the lower ones. The
subject is dealt with more adequately man
article by «T. R. Kinghorn, in the “Australian
Museum Magazine,” Vol. 111, Part •).
January-March, 1929.
jjfow can a galah code be distinguished
from a hen? Will a hen talk or whistle?
2412.
The female galah lias a light-colored ring
round the eye, and the male a black one.
Both cock and hen whistle and talk.
I have a model T Ford engine in my
boat. How can I convert the reverse gear
to give same speed astern? —2316.
Conversion of existing reverse gear would
involve considerable structural alterations
and incidental expense. It would be better
to purchase sbme standard make of revers-
ing gear.
Does the N.S.W. Government levy a State
land tax? If so, what is the rate, and how
much is collected annually? —2393,
Land tax is levied by the State only on
the unincorporated districts of the Western
Division, where no local rates are imposed.
The rate of'tax is Id. in the £1 on the
unimproved value. For the purpose of
assessment a statutory deduction of £240 is
made from the assessed value of the lands
held by each individual. The amount of
land tax collected in' the year ended June 30,
1931, was £2456.
Under what conditions are gun and pistol
licenses issued in Queensland? —2090.
Such licenses are issued only to persons
over IS. Applications must be made to the
police, accompanied by a fee of 2s. 6d., the
reason for requiring the license being clearly
stated. The Home Secretary decides. All
licenses expire on the 31st day of December
of the year of issue.
(1) Qualifications of a Shire engineer in
Q’land? (2) Age?-— 2310
(1) Applicant should hold a certificate of
qualification of at least equal standard to
that of the Board of Examiners for Local
Government Engineers, or obtain a pass in
the examination held by the Board. A copy
of the regulations is obtainable from the
Home Secretary’s Dept., Brisbane. (2) Must
be over 21.
What is the Worcester Association? —
2504.
Members are persons who were trained as
naval cadets on the Worcester. The Prince
of Wales is president and membership in-
cludes the King of Siam and Admiral Togo.
Rear-Admiral Evans established an Austra-
lian branch.
Minimum wage liable to Federal and
N.S.W. State income tax during the past
three years, and what would be the annual
payment in taxes on wages slightly above
the minimum rate? —2ll9.
During the years mentioned the following
statutory exemptions were allowable to a
resident taxpayer: Federal: 1925-29. £3OO
less £1 for every £3 by which net income
exceeds £3OO. 1929-30, personal exertion,
£3OO less £1 for every £3, etc.; property,
£2OO less £1 for every £2 by which net in-
come exceeds £2OO. 1930-31, personal exertion,
£250 less £1 for every £2 by which net in-
come exceeds £250; property, £2OO less £1
for every £2, etc. N.S.W. State throughout
same period: £250 less £1 for every £S by
which net income exceeds £250. Then there
are allowances, for children under 16, life-
assurance payments, etc., so it is impossible
to say what tax. if any, would be unless a
specific case is given,
How to remove offensive-smelling varnish
from the walls and ceilings of a weather-
board cottage? I wish to paint the walls.
—2300.
Burn the varnish off with a painter’s
blowlamp and scrape it away, keeping the
scraper going close behind the lamp while
the varnish is soft. The cheapest chemical
remover is caustic soda in hot water, with
a strong dash of ammonia, applied hot, the
softened varnish being scrubbed off. Or
inake up a mixture of 1 part oil of turpen-
tine and 2 parts ammonia; shake in a bottle
until it looks like milk. Apply to the var-
nish with a little oakum or rough rag, then
in a few minutes wipe off. This is effective,
even when caustic soda fails.
How does the snake-bird get its name, and
are there any in Australia ? —22SB.
It has a very long, slender neck which,
when the body is submerged while swimming,
resembles a snake rising from the water.
When swimming beneath the water the bird
keeps its neck bent until it comes within
striking distance of a fish ; then the neck is
suddenly straightened and the fish impaled
on the sharp bill. The birds, which are rela-
tions of the cormorant and known also as
darters, are comparatively rai*e in southern
Australia, but on some occasions consider-
able numbers appear in districts where they
are not generally seen. They are sociable, and
breed in colonies, constructing nests of sticks
in trees growing in swamps.
What are the symptoms of pyorrhoea and
method of treatment? —2164.
The gums become soft and spongy and
bleed easily at times (not always). The
teeth are often affected, too. Treatment
can only be prescribed by a dentist after
personal examination.
What was the result of the examination
held in .June for the entrance of cadets to
the Royal Australian Naval College? I leant
to know how inany boys were admitted from
.each State for this year and next year. —
2337.
The Naval Board states that cadetships
are not divided up among the States. The
most suitable boys are chosen irrespective
of the Stat? they happen to live in. As the
result of the June exam, six candidates were
selected from Vic., three from N.S.W., two
from S.A. and one from Queensland for
special entry 1932. For ordinary entry,
1933, five candidates were selected from Vic.,
three from S.A., two from Queensland and
one each from Federal Capital Territory and
w.a:
Pilotage rates for vessels entering and
leaving the port of Brisbane? —2430.
In ballast or in other special circum-
stances, Id. per ton on arrival and Id. per
ton on departure, calculated on net tonnage
of the vessel. Other vessels, lid. per ton
inward and lid. per ton outward. Minimum
charge on arrival or departure, £2 10s.;
maximum, £2O. These rates apply to all
Q’land ports. After payment of full pilot-
age rates at two Q’land ports, half-pilotage
rates only are charged at any other port
visited. Vessels less than 50 tons or under
the care of a master holding pilotage exemp-
tion for the port are exempt from pilotage
charges unless a pilot is actually employed.
I have a hull-terrier pup, three months old,
who scratches himself raw, though lie has no
vermin. Cause and cure? —2002.
Can’t diagnose without inspection. Dogs
frequently scratch for no definite cause, but
he may be infested with a parasite. Use
the following dressing on alternate days:
Sulphurated potash, loz.; glycerine, loz.;
water, 1 pint.
Why is it that banjo-playing is not re-
garded as music in comparison with such
instruments as the flute and violin? —2352.
Principally because of the limited range of
the instrument and the relatively inferior
quality of most of the music written especi-
ally for it. In the hands of a master, how-
ever. it is not to be despised. The great
pianist Thalberg was very fond of it, and
made banjo-playing a serious study, but the
literature of the instrument is not to be
compared with that of the guitar, or even of
the mandolin, for which some of the great-
est classical composers have written music.
(I) Weekly wage of barmaid in Sydney?
(2) Hours of work? (3) Is she entitled to,
annual holidays?- —2306.
(1) £2 15s. 6d., less 10 p.c. Federal cur.
(2) 44 hours. (3) One day on full pay for
every public holiday on which she works.
(1) Method of curing, dugong hides? (2)
Any market for them? —223B.
(1) Place the hides in a saturated solu-
tion of salt and water and leave for several
days. On removing, drain and sprinkle
liberally with dry salt. (2) Don t know
of any market, but Tanning School, Water-
loo, Sydney, will tan a hide if one is sent
to it, and test its value.
How to prepare a calfskin for use as a
drum head? —2326.
Skins are well washed and soaked m
water for 24 hours, then placed in a lime
liquor (31b. lime per lOgal. water) ; handled
daily for about eight days, then the hair is
removed, the skins are stretched in a
frame and all flesh is scraped off with a
fleshing-knife. After fleshing, dust both
sides with chalk and rub with pumice-stone.
Dry slowly in the shade and when dry
smooth the grain side with pumice-stone.
At tchat speed should a 12-volt “Rotax"
car generator be driven when the motive
power is a stationary engine? —23l9.
Depends upon the type of generator. The
minimum speed of the small single-pole
machine is about 1000 r.p.m., and the maxi-
mum between 2000 and 2500 r.p.m. In
the case of the fwo-pole machine, the mini-
mum speed is SOO and the maximum 2000
to 2500 r.p.m.
What is fatalism? —2418.
Philosophically, the doctrine of the futility
of human struggles against destiny, which
is the basis of the systems of Hegel and
Herbert Spencer. Theologically, the belief
that life is governed by foreordained decrees
of the Deity. Spinoza accepted and preached
this view 7, expressed also in Calvin’s theory
of predestination. Fatalism is also the pre-
dominating spirit of Oriental philosophy,
literature and religion.
llow to make a cement for (a) glass, (b)
marble?— 23sl.
(a) Fifteen parts caoutchouc in 60 parts
chloroform ; add about 35 parts mastic and
allow the mixture to stand without heat for
eight days. This cement is elastic and trans-
parent. ' (b) Four parts finely-powdered
gypsum, 1 part finely-powdered gum arabic.
Mix well, then with a cold solution of borax
make into a mortar-like paste. Use the
paste as a cement. Leave cemented parts
undisturbed for several days to allow cement
to thoroughly set.
What is known about Rennell Island? —
2446.
It is in the Solomon group, 120 miles to
the south-east of San Cristoval, and its
phosphate deposits were investigated in
1927 by G. A. V. Stanley, who , found them
not w T orth commercial exploitation. The
island, which is composed of coral limestone,
is about 50 miles long and varies in width
from six to 12 miles. It is probably the
finest example in the world of a raised atoll.
Were passengers ever carried free on Cobb
and Cols coaches? —2493.
Yes, on the route between Wentworth and
Adelaide, after Cobb and Co. had beaten
Crick (father of the political W. P. Crick)
for the mail contracts. Competition for
freight w 7 as keen and both lines carried pas-
sengers free. Then Crick went further and
provided free meals and drinks at every
mail change. Cobb and Co. withdrew, but
came back again after Crick himself gave
up. having found himself unpopular w 7 hen he
withdrew his concessions.
What would be the life of a wireless “B ”
battery (dry cell type ) when used on an
average of two hours daily with a five-valve
receiver, drawing a plate current of 14 m.a.
(1) Using small batteries? (2) Medium-
sized batteries? (3) Heavy-duty batteries?
(4) At what voltage should a 45-volt “B ”
battery be discarded? —2463.
Depends upon the make of battery and the
amount of heat and moisture present. Bat-
teries last, longest in a cold, dry climate.
For (1) a fair average would be about six
months; (2) 10 to 11 months; (3) 14
months. The heavy-duty size should be used
on all receivers taking over 14 m.a. or em-
ploying five valves and over. (4) When its
voltage falls to 78 per cent, of its original
value, or 35 volts.
Brief Answers.
f-W.: (1) Know of no market for paw-
paw seeds in Australia. (2) Understand that extrac-
tion of pepsin from the seeds is being’ done com-
mercially at Singapore... .A.D.: You will have to
get a license, £1 p.a., from Agricultural
Dept., Sydney... .C.F.: Yes, and there is a penalty
“not exceeding' £20.” Lodge a complaint with
the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., giving the name of
vendor, date of purchase, class of fruit and condition.
An investigation will then be made H. 8.: Busi-
ness training, ordinary intelligence and a discrimin-
ating palate. Experience can be gained in the tea
centres, Calcutta, Colombo or Batavia, but this is
not absolutely necessary. Salary is governed by
capabilities... .P.S.: (1) You can import orchids.
(2) They would have to go through the hands of
the quarantine officer in charge of plant importation.
. ...S.M.: “The Bulletin Reciter,” from N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney... .E.J.S.: The average for
large herds under ordinary dairying conditions would
be £lO- £ll per cow for milking season. Small
herds of selected animals, well cared for, would give
a greater return... .G.R.: The Malabar (4512 tons).
Burns Pliilp motorship, was built in 1925 at Glasgow.
While bound from Melbourne to Darwin and Singa-
pore, via Sydney, it ran ashore on the rocks at
Long Bay, near Sydney, during a heavy fog, about
7 a.m., Thursday, April 2, 1931. No lives were
105 t... .F.P.: See MacCallum’s “In Memory of
Albert Blythesea Weigall” (Sydney, 1913) ... .P.D.:
(1) “Acute anterior poliomyelitis” is the medical
name for “infantile paralysis.” (2) Because members
of the medical profession contend that the latter
name was misleading, for adults are attacked and
paralysis is not a constant symptom... .T.J.F.: The
village settlement for tubercular cases at Pictou
Lakes (N.S.W.) was founded and is maintained by
public subscription and is controlled by' the Dept,
of Public Health, to which applications for admission
should be made. .. .H.J.T.: “An Outline of Australian
Literature,” by H, M. Green (55.) ..S.G.G.: Write
W. E. Gundry, Officer-in-Charge,. Correspondence
Courses, Sydney Tech. Coll., Ultimo... .H.M.L.:
“Where and How to Sell Manuscripts,” by William
B. MeCourtie.... A.S.: Hawkesbury River, 293 miles,
is the largest of the N.S.W. coastal rivers; next
come the Hunter, 287 miles; Macleay, 250 miles;
Clarence, 245 miles; and Shoalhaven, 206 miles....
E.V.: In December, 1930, all provisions for assist-
ing immigrants to N. S. Wales were suspended, but
in March, 1931, it was decided that assisted passages
would be granted to wives and children (under 14
years) of persons in permanent employment in N. S.
Wales... .K.D. :An article in “The B.P. Magazine,”
March 1, 1932, by Willianc Moore, is as good a short
history as any... .P.R.G.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Local Government, Bligh-street, Sydney....
11.R.M.: Full particulars from Secretary, ■ Workers’
Educational Assoc., Education Building, Bridge-street,
Sydney H.D.C.: By lodging a copy with the
Copyright Office, Martin-place, Sydney, and paying
a fee of 5s A. 5.8.: “Backing a horse both ways”
means backing it for a win and a place... .C.W.H.:
Advertise in one of the Adelaide newspapers asking
any'one with information to communicate with you.
. ...S.T.: Your only course would be to sue;
employ a solicitor... .H.J.8.: You should obtain the
consent of the mortgagee. Stamp duty is deter-
mined by the consideration paid or the value of the
property, whichever is the higher; and solicitor’s
fees are fixed by schedule accordingly J.R.N.:
“Bushranging Silhouettes,” by Bernard Cronin and
Arthur Russell (6s. 6d.) J.P.: Write to the Con-
servator of Forests, Perth, W.A., and the Q’land
Forestry Service, Brisbane. .. .R.S.H.: “Business
Principles and Practice,” by Henry Braddon
(10s. 6d.)... .N.L.W.: The subject is dealt with in
Hewdtt’s “Bookbinding for Schools” (10s. 9d.),
Halliday’s “Bookbinding As a Handwork Subject”
(ss. 3d.), Smith’s “Bookbinding” (4s. 3d.), and
Cockerell’s “Bookbinding and the Care of Books”
(17s. Cd.) W.J.T.: There is no boarding establish-
ment in Q’land for mentally defective children....
J.G.: Misima (or St. Aignan) Island lies off the
eastern end of the Louisiade Archipelago, within
Papuan waters. Area, about 100 sq. miles; native
population, about 2500. Gold has been found in
many parts of the island and mining is being carried
on there L.D.: Oliver Hogue (“Trooper Blue-
gum”) published “The Home-sick Anzac and Other
War Verses” in 1918 L.P.W.: (1) The book was
posted. (2) 6d., obtainable from this office. (3)
Chances are remote II.II.: Write Nurses’ and
Masseurs’ Registration, Board, ojo Dept. Public
Health, Brisbane J.H.: No record available in
Sydney... .L.W.: Write A. Taylor, Sunny South.
Edinburgh-road, Willoughby... .11.E.8.: From Norili
Head to Inner South Head is approximately one mile.
L.11.0.: £lO 15s. 9d. p.a...... J.A.M.C.: Write
Lecturer-in-cliarge, Tanning School, Bourke-street,
Waterloo, Sydney... . A.J.S.: AVrite Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Assoc., Spring-street, Sydney
J.T.N.; A letter sent to Cloncurry was returned. Send
full postal address. ..H.R.: Lime, used in the propor-
tion of lib. to 1000 gallons, will cleanse muddy
water. .. .P.T.Iv.: Very little chance. There arc
many experienced stewards awaiting positions....
L. 8.: The maximum height of buildings in Sydney,
fixed by the N.S.W. Heights of Buildings Act
(1912)," is 150 ft H.S.W.: Application may be
made on the first ordinary sitting day of any month
to a Court of Petty Sessions in the district wherein
the applicant usually resides.... D.F.: They may be
adopted upon an order of the Supreme Court in
Equity on the application of the adopting parents.
If over 12 years of age the child’s cousent is neces-
sary. Apply at the office of the Master in Equity,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney E.A.: Judge Lukin made
the award and the Full Court, consisting of Chief
Judge Detliridge, Judge Lukin and Judge Bceby.
fixed-the working hours N.S.: George’s River
Bridge, Sydney, has a span of 1639 ft C.P.: The
rostrum is. the' sharp thorn on top of the crayfish
in front of the eyes between ihe feelers, from which
the measurement is made... .S.J.: Write to Paterson
Laing and Bruce, Wynyard-street, and Central
Agency, 114 Day-street —both Sydney; also watch
newspaper advertisements... .W.J.8.: Take 101 b.
lime, 51b. salt and 2-Jib. alum, crush to remove
all lumps and mix. Add water and stir until
mixture is of consistency of ordinary whitewash or
a little firmer. Use as soon as possible, and brush
on thickly 0.D.: Hang up some muslin bags,
each containing about Ooz. dried lavender floweis,
give them an occasional shake to release the pet
fume. Procurable from chemist, or from the Bride-
stowe Lavender Farm, Lilydale, Tas H.C.. (1)
Particulars of the voting at all polling places in any
N.S.W. electoral district will be supplied by the
Electoral Commissioner’s Office, Chief Secretary’s
Dept., Sydney, fee 2s. 6d. (2) AVrite Commonwealth
Electoral Officer, Customs House, Sydney S.M.G.:
Liability to action for breach of promise arises out
of breaking the promise to marry. The other party’s
“recognition” of the situation doesn’t affect the
matter unless it involved complete exoneration....
G W.R.: Registrar of Probate and AYills, Depart-
ment of the Attorney-General, Dublin. Fee depends
on length of wi11... .R.8.T.: Vic. Railway Com-
missioner Clapp’s salary is £5OOO p.a., but is sub-
ject to a reduction of 27 p.e. under the Financial
Emergency Act... . (Alany others mailed.)


3
>
m
[5&l
fcPCK
FENCE
IA
m*
In addition tp the relief afforded by the proposed- removal of Sales
Tax on fencing materials, prices of all types of “Cyclone” Ring-Lock
Fencing have been reduced.
For instance, the price of the popular 5-line “Cyclone” High Tensile
Sheep Fence was formerly (including tax) £22 per mile; it is now
£2O. A substantial saving.
The new catalogue (No. 44) shows the revised prices of fencing
and gates, steel posts, droppers, wire netting, etc. SEND FOR IT.
“Cyclone”
Fence
Reduced
f* O per
&**.<& mile
<B>
3j
CYCLONE FENCE &
24 JAMIESON STREET, STONE*".
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Please send me by return mail No. 44 free illustrated
and priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and
King:*Lock Fences and comparison of costs.
Name .
■a
>=
GATE CPR"!?®
)»
B. 19/10/’B2
=<s
POST ,
COUPON '
Such %f>!
(ream
4
Yeast
AU>
CHEKiSTS
SttJL
IT
iIFFf
imtmm mm*
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- — think of
h
SCHUTE,
BELL &. CSid.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
IS
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
SALVATION!
The Royal Show for 1932 will be held on
October 4 to 8 and record entries for all
sections have been received. This year’s Royal
Show will faithfully depict the advancement
of Western Australia’s primary industries.
The success of Western Australia as a primary
production State is bound up with its overseas
export's, and the following figures for the year
ended June 30, 1931, demonstrate the value of
this trade to the people of Western Australia: —
THE PERTH
Westralia’s leading newspaper,
CAN SELL YOUR GOODS IN THIS
VALUABLE MARKET.
E * S.' k *
11l
COR
PLUS
«?•
us
MOTORISTS EVERYWHERE
ARE TALKIN6 ABOUT IT -
AND NO WONDER /
There’s no shadow of doubt about the success of “C.0.R.” Plus.
Motorists right throughout the country are talking of it . . .Everyone
is saying “What a difference that ‘little extra something’ makes !’*
Every man who uses “Plus” starts a half-a-dozen more . . . and they
all come back. They can’t help doing so . . . For never have they
known such power, such performance, such smoothness, such uncanny
freedom from pinking.
“C.O.R” Plus brings Australia into line with the latest overseas
developments in modern motor fuels . . . And there’s no extra cost . . .
This wonderful blue spirit is something more than petrol at the
normal petrol price.
The New
BLUE Petrol . . .
“C.O K.” Plus is tinted
blue to denote the pre-
sence of a special com-
pound of lead which
gives controlled com-
bustion, and freedom
from pinking with to-
day’s higher compression
ratios. A minute
quantity of harmless
aniline dye gives
“C.0.1t” Plus the
blue colour which
is your guarantee
that you are getting
what you pay for.
WHAT ABOUT YOU ?
Have you tried the new
BLUE Petrol ? If you
haven't done so you’re missing a new sensation in motoring.
C-OR'M»
PLUS
WHAT?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVE NT GOT
C. 43/16/32
• • farmers! note this also
COR
f
POWER KEROSENE
gives quicker starting ♦. stronger
pulling . . . and sweeter running in
any tractor engine. . . ♦ Try it in
your’s —you’ll not be disappointed.
pm
A
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltt.)',
Poolman St., PortMelb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Capitol’s big bill begins this week
with a mystery film. “Tabasco Kid” follows
—a Charlie Chase burlesque of a cowboy
drammer. In this critic's opinion the
asininities of Mr. Chase are as funny in their
way as those of Laurel and Hardy. There
is less catastrophe and proportionately more
character about his fooling. The feature
film is “Divorce in the Family,” the moral
of which is: “Don’t get wrapped up in your
work or you’ll lose your wife and children.”
Lewis Stone is an elderly scientist who has
been divorced by Lois Wilson, because he left
her to be wooed and won by Conrad Nagel
while he was digging up human remains in
deserts. The plot concerns the struggle for
the boys, Jackie Cooper and Maurice Murphy
- —who, incidentally, looks many years too
old to be his mother’s son. Jackie Cooper
has the best lines, as usual. There is nothing
torrential about the flow of wit and humor,
but when a negress comments on his sun-
burnt face and he remarks on her sun-
burn, and when Nagel offers to be a father
to him and he replies that he has a father
already, it somehow sounds funny. The boy’s
comic face and voice help, of course, but he
is an artist who doesn’t need adventitious
aids. There is no other child on the screen
to touch him for naturalism. Lois Wilson
and Nagel win in the end, and Lewis Stone
returns to the desert alone, with all parties
the best of friends. It shows, without undue
sentimentalism, the kind of thing that is
happening in thousands of families every-
where in these days of easy divorce.
¥ V- *
“Downstairs” at Sydney State, is about
an Austrian servants’ hall. John Gil-
bert, a young sprig from upstairs, goes
below as a chauffeur, and practises the wiles
of his upstairs code there. This cynical study
of a Continental “rasta” in action is as
essentially moral as “Divorce in the Family,”
with its subtle propaganda in favor of col-
lusive divorce, is the other thing. The Euro-
pean, and for that matter the English, police
have to rescue impressionable females from
such young men in shoals every year. They
have always existed, of course, but only as
single spies; since the war they have
appeared in battalions. Gilbert blackmails
his erring mistress, makes love to the
butler’s wife, and robs the infatuated cook.
The. producer has had the art to refrain
from showing him being arrested, but his in-
evitable finish' is obvious. As a tract for
travellers it is as valuable as one of Edgar
Wallace’s knowledgable yarns about mail-
ship cardsharpers. The cast, which includes
Paul- Lukas and Hedda Hopper, is good, but
Gilbert’s Karl stands out. This cheerful
blackguard is much the best thing he has
done.
In “Hotel Continental” Theodore von
Eltz comes to Room 705 to retrieve the pro-
ceeds of a robbery left there before he went
to gaol. On his trail are rival thieves (with
Peggy Shannon as a decoy) and a posse of
detectives. Miss Shannon falls in love, with
him, and leads him to a new, hard life in
Canada after handing the loot over to the
police. The picture would be more satis-
factory if one could forget that 75 per cent,
of criminals are recidivists, but there is noth-
ing else against it.
* # *
The first item at the Plaza is “Miss
Pinkerton,” one of those ooh-ooh or clutch-
ing-hands movies, whose capacity to provoke
squeals of ecstatic terror has gone like the
leaves of yesteryear. Joan Blondell takes
a nurse’s job in the usual house of inexplic-
able happenings, and George Brent, as a
handsome young police chief, identifies the
guilty party after a number of innocent
persons have behaved in a manner that
would justify them being certified out of
hand.
“Beauty and the Boss” is the other one.
It seems to have been inspired by the inter-
national financiers who have been commit-
ting suicide so freely of late. Warren Wil-
liam tears about Europe in giant ’planes,
bellows in banks, yells into telephones, roars
at servants and is utterly remorseless and
hard and a typical captain of finance in all
respects—until a lady friend rings him up
while in her bath or a typist shows him her
leg. This has the effect of turning him into
a fatuous simpercr of a type that may be
seen in thousands at any Australian surfing
resort; decades are miraculously knocked
off his mental age; he is transformed from
a pirate to a “pirate,” so to speak. Mary
Doran and Marian Marsh are the girls who
battle for his favors. You will like it if
you care about spectacular photography, and
ladies’ legs, and underclothes, and don't
object to coming under periodical barrages
of whiskered wise-cracks.
* ¥ *
Say what yon like about the Americans,
they don’t mind laughing at themselves and
their institutions. “The Dark Horse,” at
the Regent, for example, is a merciless
satire on a U.S.A. State Governor. There
have been Lord Lieutenants and Dom-
inions’ Governors as absurd as Guy
Kibb.ee is in this movie, but few Britons
would believe it if an Els tree director
was rash enough to say so. Warren Wil-
liam is. the slick mountebank who foists
the half-witted Kibbee on the electors. The
part suits his energetic style down to the
ground. Bette Davis is the heroine.
* *
“Night Court,” at Sydney Haymarket, in-
dicts corruption in the U.S.A. Walter
Huston is a judge who loves bribery, blondes
and press blurbs in that order. When Anita
Rage accidentally stumbles on his secret
banking account, which an investigating
committee is after, he has her gaoled. Her
husband, Phillips Holmes, waylays Huston
and third-degrees him for a confession to
no purpose. That night Lewis Stone, of
the investigation committee, is murdered.
Huston is arrested, and Holmes refuses to
supply the necessary alibi. He only does
it when Huston breaks down and clears
Anitj. Exciting stuff, with some good emo-
tional acting.


Make Your Own
Family Remedy For
COUGHS, COLDS,
■
II
m
i
V
h
ft:**^:*:*:
4
in
&
“The Ingenues” always carry
HEE N Z O on their world
travels to keep them free from
coughs and colds.
CROUP
BRONCHITIS
WHOOPING
COUGH
and
INFLUENZA
COSTS 2/-
Here's a recipe, given by a leading chemist,
that will enable people to make the best
family cough remedy, and at the same
SAVES £’s
time save much money. Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy consists of two main
sections: —The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients; and the second is, of course, the necessary
water and sweetening. The preparation of the medicinal ingredients requires trained knowledge, but the
water and sweetening can be added in the home just as easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a lot of
money by doing so. Now, prove these facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put four table-
spoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar, and a large breakfastcupful of warm
water. Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle, and then add a two-
shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or store. By doing this you will
have a family supply equal in quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would cost up to £l. An outstanding
feature about HEENZO is the fact that it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and oyer 1 2,000
people have written letters proclaiming it the best remedy they have ever used for quickly banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
h
should be used in every home
When your Doctor orders a Tonic, take the best, and that’s
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
ft
Trout Season Opens
Ist November.
Use the Wonderful Farlow’s English
Semi-invisible Taper Trout Cast's.
They hit the water without a Hash.
IX, 2X, 3X, 4/- each; 23/- half-doz.
Hardy’s Casts, 3/9. Red Loop, 3/3
Sinfalta, 2/6
Write for Trout and Freshwater Fishing
Tackle Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
h
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director : H. Fell.
= _ Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Cooperative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. ~
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY . . . . 29th October
CUP DAY . . . . Ist November
OAKS DAY . . 3rd November
C. B. FISHER PLATE . . sth November
£7OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup of £2OO.
£4OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY,
Secretary.
1 *7
ty
M
II
Monarch
■ Cigalas.
Craig sAitken
I . Wholesale
I ft Distributors
l ¥ Sydney N.5.W.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Who can solve the enigma of thoroughbred
temperament? Dempsey was confident of
landing the Caulfield Cup on the favorite,
Induna. The Adelaide-owned stallion almost
pulled him out of the saddle as the
field swept past the stand for the first time.
Dempsey didn’t want to be so close to the
front at that stage, nor did Jim Munro on
.1 ohnnie Jason; but, having unwittingly ob-
tained positions of prominence, they were
left there by laggard rivals. Half a mile
from home Induna still was pulling hard,
behind Johnnie Jason. Before another fur-
long had been traversed he was beaten.
Rogilla cut him off, but Dempsey says he
could have prevented such a happening if
Induna had not shot his bolt. Johnnie Jason
also threw in the towel when Rogilla came
boldly on the scene. Nothing else could
have been expected considering Johnnie’s
weight—9st.—and the going, which was dead.
Eased up he beat only one horse home—■
the Toorak Handicap winner, K. Cid. '
Many great Australian race? have been
captured by gallopers who were believed to
be physically amiss. Rogilla had wonderful
credentials in the first leg of the Victorian
spring double, having run second in the
Epsom and Metropolitan; but. a bruised heel
prevented the gelding being given any really
fast work on Melbourne tracks. He might
not have seen the post on Saturday if the
track had been fiery, but it just suited him ;
then the lease under which he is raced will
shortly expire, and Haigh naturally wished
to make the most of present opportunities.
Hunter White, the breeder, has every reason
Bert : Ive just been watching,
am Egg ftNp spoon pace *
Gert: Reauly.? how tummy!''
Bert: 41 yes, very amusing,!*
: WHICH WON , "WS EG,<3i OR THE
SPOON 7 . "
to be proud of Rogilla, whose sire he im-
ported from England. Rogilla descends from
the Australian-bred mare Georgic, who, sent
to England, won the Cambridgeshire. Brought
back she was mated with Tartan and pro-
duced Virginia, the dam of Speargilla, who
is by Brakespear, son of Spearmint. So the
good old Carbine blood flows in his veins, too.
Frank. McGrath was disappointed with
the showing of Peter Pan, whom he regards
as equal to Prince Foote up to a mile and a
half. McGrath could not comprehend why
the public preferred Induna to his three-year-
old. He had seen Induna run second in the
Caulfield Stakes at weight-for-age. Peter
Pan may give a far better account of him-
self in the Melbourne Cup; anyhow he will
have had ample opportunity to become accus-
tomed to the left-handed direction of gallop-
ing. Peter Pan did not settle down in the
Caulfield Cup until half the journey had been
completed. Six furlongs from home he was
last, lugging out noticeably. The run the
chestnut made along the railway side
was remarkable; he covered an appalling
amount of extra ground, and in the circum-
stances did well to run fourth. He almost
deprived Top Hole of third place.
Rogilla is not only trained at Newcastle
but was ridden by a jockey from that part
of N. S. Wales. George Robinson visited
Melbourne a few years ago and won a race
at Werribee on Shoubra. Subsequently he
went to the Malay States, and, in 1929, cap-
tured the Singapore Cup for the Sultan of
Perak on Cafe Royal. While spending a
holiday in England his weight rose to 9st.
51b., and, returning to Australia, he found
it necessary to work in a coalmine in which
his brother has an interest. The Rogilla
party had a substantial win over the Caul-
field Cup, and now expects to win the Mel-
bourne Cup with its stout-hearted chestnut.
He has been raised from 7st. 111 b. to Bst. 51b.
Segati’s feat in finishing second was im-
mensely creditable to her, for she is scarcely
more than a pony. Her sire (Manfred) and
dam (Wynette) each won this Cup, Wynette
being trained by H. W. Torr, who has Segati
in hand for the Adelaide sportsman who
raced Wynette. By finishing third Top
Hole gave Heroic an advertisement and also
enabled Holt to score over those critics who
maintained that Top Hole would not stay.
Y.R.C. chairman Mackinnon was not well
enough to be at the meeting, but he would
be proud of the juvenile success of Blue
Shot at 14 to 1. That filly is a product of
his Maribyrnong stud, being by imported
Ronsard, who showed Ike Foulsham an ex-
ceptional trial in Sydney but would not
stand training. Waltzing Lily (7 to 1),
winner of the tliree-year-old event, easily
vanquished a hot favorite, Some Hero
(Heroic —Herowinkie). She is by Beau
Fils, and in the Y.R.C. Oaks may turn the
tables on Dutchie (a stable-mate of Some
Hero), who overcame her in the Edward
Manifold Stakes at Flemington on October
1; but the pair of them will have to reckon
with Segati. Tindall annexed the Gwyn
Nursery with his Tippler colt, Nellie’s Tip
(15. to 1). . Fortune is beginning to smile
again on Tindall, but he has a compara-
tively small string now. Parkwood (6 to
1) carried 9st. 71b. to brilliant victory in
the Windsor Handicap. His achievement
enhances the merit of Liberal.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Mia Mia Hurdle: Star God; next, Lyn-
den.
W. S. Cpx Plate: Chatham; next, Peter
Pan.
Moonee Valley Gold Cup : Johnnie Jason ;
next, Denis Boy.
* * * *
“Another bad day,” groaned McShortodds
after City Tatt.’s meeting at Rand wick, “and
a man has gotter pay turnover tax on top
of it.” Still, it might have been worse;
and it will take a lot of turnover tax to
yield what the Government was skinned of
when 10 p.c. was collected from punters
who backed a winner. The flat-racing at
Kandwick began promisingly for the squeal-
ing brotherhood, for the Novice Handicap
went to a 20-to-l chance in Grey Abbott,
after a neck-and-neck struggle with Spel-
don (2 to 1) and Forestry (6 to 1) ; but
after that it was all gloom and no gleam.
Grey Abbott is another of those four-year-
olds by Magpie—Royal Abbess.
Holdfast (6 to 1) put up a sterling per-
formance in the Flying Handicap. He gave
the favorite, Vista (5 to 1), just on 3st.
and a good start into the straight, and,
finishing as straight as a gun-barrel for
little O Sullivan, beat the three-year-old by
a head Waugoola (7 to 1) was a fair third
and Gloriole fourth; with a good run the
daughter of Heroic—Gloaming’s Sister
would have troubled Holdfast, but she was
knocked from pillar to post. Kicliaka, one
ot the outsiders, showed plenty of pace.
The Two-year-old Stakes was easy for
Malvern (evens) ; and Tregilla’s half-
sister Leila Vale, who beat Malvern point-
less in the Gimcrack Stakes, must be a good
nu irC £ S J^ ar J B *? D have won
aILSK Tatt - s Handicap if she had been
allowed to bowl along in front. But Rosendo
kept cutting at her, and the effort it took
" f J ke hlm off contributed to the mare’s
D . so ’.£ I . rcus Star battled on and
S??’ a len £th of the winner,
lretze! (8 fo I)* w ho beat old Pavilion (8
win 1 a neck. He was due for a
win, and apparently a mile and a quarter
is his favorite distance; he ran it in 2.5.
Trenette was fourth, though there was very
little between her and the favorite, Agin-
court, who was doing well when it was all
over, as also was Black Douglas. Agin-
court is being prepared for the Melbourne
Cup and is not quite ready yet.
Young Payten played up some of his
Pretzel money on Cynical in the Club
Welter. He trains both, owns Pretzel and
has a half-interest in Cynical; and he bad
the satisfaction of landing the double. He
had to take fours about Cynical, who is a
rather nice-looking sort of three-year-old by
Silvius—Cygnea. Carat (20 to 1) and
Havaspot (4 to 1) chased Cynical home, but
over the. last furlong there was only one
in it. Finch, the stable jockey, rode Pretzel,
and Stead was on Cynical.
* * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: High Sun.
Maiden Plate: Forestry; next, Nellabar.
Flying Welter: Promptitude; next,
Senator.
Moorefield Handicap: Circus Star; next,
Black Douglas.
Hurstville Mile: New King; next, Hava-
spot.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Lurich, the wrestler, is making more
money than most captains of industry these
times. He won his fourth match in a week
when he defeated Ivan Dnyproski, another
Russian, at Leichhardt. He had beaten Pen-
chiff and Elliott at .Wagga on Monday and
Thursday, but, showing no sign of staleness,
put the other Muscovite down in the second
and fifth —on the second occasion with such
force that Dnyproski could not continue.
$ * * *
They can’t come back. Benny Leonard, in
his day the unbeaten lightweight champion
of the U.S.A., was knocked out in six rounds
by Jimmy McLarnin the other night.
Leonard is 12 years older than his conqueror,
and has naturally lost much of his punching
power and speed. McLarnin, though a
British Columbian, is about the most popu-
lar boxer in the U.S.A.
Ins and Outs
Sydney’s main cricket attraction on Satur-
day was a brace of “super-grade” matches
on the Cricket Ground. Bradman, captain-
ing one side, compiled his third successive
century—l4s opt of 374 for 6 wickets. Slow-
bowler Adrian, of Manly, took 6 for 30 for
Bradman’s eleven against Love’s; Hill, of
North Sydney, got 5 for 29 for Oldfield’s
team v. Kippax’s.
* * * *
“Toombul”: The omission of Jackson from
the Australian eleven to play England at
Melbourne on November 18 comes as a dis-
appointment to many. He may not be able
to represent Bananaland in the early Shef-
field games and in that case this match would
have provided an opportunity to prove that
he has sufficiently recovered from his illness
to once more take the field for Australia.
If Jackson has really regained his form,
and his recent scores in Brisbane against
such bowlers as Hornibrook and Gamble in-
dicate that he has, his inclusion in the Test
team will greatly strengthen Australia’s
batting.
* H* * H:
“Exhibition” : Queensland cricket authori-
ties object to umpires from other States
being appointed to officiate in the Bris-
bane Tests. Bananaland has a healthy
crop of home-grown umpires and wants
to see some of them given a chance.
But the board’s practice is founded on a
sound basis. Both here and in England the
custom has been to adhere to tried men. One
Australian umpire acted in all the Tests
against the South Africans, and will pro-
bably do so again against the Englishmen.
An umpire who knows the players and is
known by them is less likely to make errors
than a man unfamiliar with the methods of
the men on whom he has to adjudicate.
* * * *
“Stegomyia”: The precautions taken by
the English cricketers against the onslaughts
of the terrible Queensland mosquitoes (B.
5/10/’32) have had a gloomy effect on some
of the Sydney journals. One of them, com-
menting on the deadly menace to cricketers
visiting Bananaland, tells how Howell of the
1924-25 English team had his feet so affected
that he could not even wear Maurice Tate’s
boots, and then ends up with the cheerful
reflection that five of that team have since
died —presumably as .a result of visiting
Brisbane.
*■-*.**
“Amateur Pro.”: The latest phase of the
Board of Control-Bradman match is the
marketing in Sydney streets of a black
button bearing the inscription “Tests
Black Without Bradman.” The idea
apparently is that every purchaser binds
himself to stay away from the Test games if
Bradman stands down. It might work
out all right in Sydney, but the boycott
could hardly be expected to function in Mel-
bourne, Adelaide or Brisbane. However, as
a contribution to the general flood of blither
which has risen out of the dispute the idea
has its merits.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Mention of the gorgeous
cricket raiment of long ago (B. 5/10/’32)
reminds me that at least one English club
adheres to the unconventional in its attire
—or did until quite recent years. That is
the _ Bullingdon at Oxford, which, though
originally an exclusive dining club, developed
a cricket sense. The outstanding feature
of the Bullingdon attire is, or was, a broad
stripe of blue down the outside of the
flannel trousers. I don’t think that any other
club in existence has tried to emulate this
strictly unique idea.
(Continued on page 32. )
For the third year in succession the
N.S.JV. National Rjfle Association has seen
its King’s Prize go to Victoria. The winner
was L. A. Smith, of the Melbourne G.C.
rifle club. It was Smith’s first shoot on the
Holdsworthy range, but he proved remark-
ably consistent all through the match, and,
taking the lead on the last day, finished with
334 out of a possible 365 points. 11. N.
Nutt, of South Australia, was second, with
332, and R. Gunn, another Victorian, who
has two previous King’s Prizes to his credit,
filled third place with 330.
* * * #
The final of the close golf championship
of N.S.W., played at La Perouse, was won
by Richardson. Runner-up was Gray,
who was also second to Richardson in the
match for the professional championship,
and was again defeated by one stroke.
Richardson’s total for the 72 holes was 295.
% JjC
The Mosman regatta on Sydney Harbor
provided a surprise—Mosman’s defeat in
the Boone Memorial Cup race for senior
eights. Stroked by A. C. Lambert, Sydney
won from Haberfield by a length and a half,
the same distance parting the second crew
and Mosman. The time for the mile was
smin. 7 4-ssee.
* * * *
_ “H'otham”: South Australian homer
pigeon-fanciers took a bad knock the other
day over the 530-mile flight from Melbourne
to Kadina. Baskets were addressed to the
wrong official, and 78 birds were released at
11 a.m. against a strong head-wind. That
was on a Thursday, and the first bird to
reach home was clocked in at 1.30 p.m. on
Saturday. At last advices only two others
of the 78 had reached their destination. As
the birds were the pick of the South Aus-
tralian lofts the loss was a serious one.


The Man who makes you this sensational
offer —see below.
FEAR
Is Your Worst Enemy
A RE you held back by worried fears?
Have you the ability to forget
yourself when in company. Or are
you troubled with self-consciousness,
anxiety, sensitiveness and fear of criti-
cism—then you lack self-confidence.
You are missing the good things of life!
HOW TO STRENGTHEN YOUR
NERVES.
No tonic or magic system of exercise can ever
restore the health and vigour to weak, sick,
unbalanced nerves. To regenerate lost nerve
force, to build up strong, sound nerves, requires
an understanding of the action and abuses of
the nerves.
READ THIS WONDERFUL BOOK-
FREE.
Based upon many years of intensive experience
and study, the famous author, Frederick Gray,
has written a remarkable book, entitled, “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness, and Personality.”
In plain language he gives certain easy-to-
follow rules that have enabled thousands of men
and women to regain their lost nervous energy
and to acquire glowing health and useful
vitality. It enables you to form a correct
understanding of your own case, and shows you
how to bring back your nervous vitality.
“Nerve Strength, Self-Consciousness, and Per-
sonality” is worth its weight in gold—and yet
it costs you nothing. This book will prove a
revelation to you. It will help you throughout
your entire life; it will help you to build for
yourself a solid foundation for your future
success and happiness. Mail coupon for your
copy to-day.
MAIL NOW
FREDERICK GRAY’, Desk 11,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a FREE copy of your book,
“Nerve Strength, Self-Consciousness and Per-
sonality.” I am enclosing 4d. in stamps to
cover cost of postage.
NAME
ADDRESS ,
iy/10/’32.
This Amazing
Remedy Restores
Health and Vitality
without Effort
The modern foods we eat, the stress
of post-war life and the strain of pre-
sent-day business combine to produce
self-poisoning ( Autoxima ), the result
of hidden and unsuspected constipation
from which nine out of ten suffer. Par-
ticles of food waste not properly evacu-
ated become encrusted in the intestine,
much as a water pipe becomes coated
with rust. This waste decays and fer-
ments, harboring disease - breeding
germs and poisons. These are absorbed
into the system, thus polluting the
blood stream, undermining your health,
sapping your vitality, and bringing on
all manner of aches and pains.
Before the health and vigor of youth
can be regained, this waste matter must
he flushed right out of the system. The
safe, simple way to do this is to drink
COLOSEPTIC. It completely loosens
off, dissolves and washes out the de-
caying waste, and rids the body of all
poisonous waste and blood impurities
through Nature’s four great outlets
the colon or large intestine, the kid-
neys, the pores of the skin, and the
respiratory organs.
Poor health is a tremendous handi-
cap in business, professional and social
life. If you are a victim to various
aches, pains and ailments, you cannot
be judged at your best—you cannot
reach your full measure of success. Are
you suffering from constipation, head-
aches, weakness, indigestion, gas in the
stomach and bowels, catarrh, backache,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema, pimples?
Drink COLOSEPTIC in hot water every
morning. Personally prove how it
promptly surmounts your particular
health difficulty—how it restores radi-
ant health - how it renews the old
youthful energy and vigor. You can
get COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size
jars from all Send !/•
stamps or postal note to COLOSEPTIC
GO., LTD., Dept. K 4. 24 Jamie*
son Street, Sydney, for Special Demon-
otratien Jar of COLOSEPTIC and the
iiiatrafitiy© hook “Autoxima,”
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRING
~w
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE viz
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FAANCE
BOTTLE O & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE FRENCH
GOVERNMENT \
The jGuarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Wattrs.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
t&he following itatement defies contradiction!
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheuma*
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs- restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -corld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substituted,
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iN.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
ĥ
PLENTY
WATER
DURING SUMMER MONTHS
with
"Macson”
Double-Acting'
Piston Pumps
gag®!?
mm
S 3
The “Macson”
has become
very popular
where pumps
are required to
give a large
flow of water
at considerable
pressure.
“Macson” Pumps are used in Factories, on Farms and Stations with
great success. They are strongly built at our own Works and have
several features which are distinct improvements on other makes
of similar pumps.
Made in five sizes: for li, li, 2, 2\ and 3 inch piping, giving
outputs ranging from 400 to 3500 gallons per hour.
Full particulars will be sent on request.
FREE!
We have recently issued an ex-
tremely useful Catalogue of Tools
and Hardware for Farm and Home.
In addition to nearly 250 pages
of illustrations and descriptions ot
over 1400 articles, there are many
pages of valuable information com-
piled by a competent authority.
The many subjects included make
Catalogue No. 33 a splendid refer-
ence book for the man on the land.
Proprietary limited
Dependable Goods Since 1860.
To make sure that you secure a copy,
fill in and send this coupon now.
1
Please send me, Post Free, a copy .
of your Catalogue No. 33.
NAME 1
ADDRESS
51 Bathurst Street - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins Street - - - MELBOURNE
116 Way mouth Street - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street ----- PERTH
Change to “Corry” Clubs
and instantly strike your
true form !
The Distinctive , Low Priced
*99
“Corry
Lightning
Steel-SHafted
Club Series
m
It is impossible to obtain
better clubs at the price
in all Australia to-day.
The undeniable stamp of
Quality and Craftsman-
ship proclaims itself to
the most inexperienced
player.
Let Will Cony, himself,
guide you in selecting a
set of clubs suitable to
your individual require-
ments!
“Corry Lightning” Steel-shafted Graded
Irons. Rustproof Head, Chromium-plated
Shaft. (In Nos. 2,5, 7, 9 ,
only) 21/-
“Corry Lightning” Steel-shafted Matched
Woods. Plain polished Head, Chromium-
plated Shaft. Nos. Ito 3 . . 25-
Anoiher Low-priced Dependable
Club Series!
f A
“PERLA”
thromium-Plated
Golf Irons
In Mid-Irons, Mashies and Put-
ters. Genuine quality Hickory
Shafts, with superior Tan Leather Grips.
Right or Left Hand. Mick Sim- q
mons’ Unrivalled Club Value . .
Value in Golf Balls!
|gg§BcccS\
raqpctjora
“LIGHTNING”
(Dimple)
GOLF BALLS
A last shipment from Eng-
land. Indisputably the best
golf-ball value offering to-day .. 1/Q
ħ
GOLF HEAD
COVERS
Waterproof, button
fastener, each . . 1/»
Waterproof, zi p
fastener, each . . 2/0
Leather, zip fast-
ener, each .... 3/0
"BETA-'OLE” PUTTING
DEVICE
h
A new way to
'practice at home,
4/6
‘HOME.” PUTTING
GREEN
m
m
m
A splendid practical
device that will defi-
nitely and quickly
improve your
putting. Can
be used in the
average-sized room. Whether the ball is
holed or not, it always comes back
to the player. Complete. Price .. O/W
(Carriage Extra.)
( Carriage paid on Golf Material, except
where specified otherwise.)
All Letters to Box 188, P.O. Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”


m
/
Build New Energy for Business
Nerve strain and bad digestion—the penalty of overwork
and worry—can be soothed and overcome by Nestle’s
Malted Milk. Taken during the day or at bedtime it
builds up the system and ensures sound sleep.
NESTLES
MALTED MlLfl
Hestl£ s
'IT
IIOMT
m
INSIST UPON
AUSTRALIAN MADE
|| HI
SUPER QUALITY
CIGARETTE PAPERS
CHEAPER AND BETTER
THAN BEST fMPORTEO
Ins and Outs
“Tenth-Slip” : The position is that Bradman
is eligible for the Tests and will be selected.
If he infringes the rule as to writing cricket
comment for the press he will go out on his
pink ear. This will apply to all "Australia”
matches as well as the five Tests. Brad-
man propagandists on Sydney papers are
making much of the fact that _ the board
allows full-time journalists to write for the
press but bans Bradman, who is only a part-
timer. It is a half-truth. The board has laid
down regulations which keep the comments
of even the professional journalist with Test-
match claims within certain bounds. It is
worth noting by Bradman and others that
the rule was framed when Ponsford became
a professional journalist.
* * * *
“Hove”: Every Australian who cottons to
a pulclca sportsman will rejoice to hear that
Maurice Tate will be here this season.
The dramatic nervous breakdown ol the
great Sussex bowler has been sufficiently dis-
cussed. Remains to be said that after a
thorough vetting he has been, passed as fit
for active service. He will join the Eng-
lish team at Melbourne early in November
in plenty of time for the first Test, wh ch
opens in Sydney on December 2. The fact
that he may prove a formidable enemy in
the Tests does not detract from the genuine
pleasure with which Australian followers of
cricket will welcome him.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Third Slip”: This week will see the Eng-
lish XI having its opening knock against W est-
ralia at Perth. That match will be followed
by one against an “Australian” team, which
will keep the tourists busy from October 27
to October 29. Bradman, Stan McCabe
and J. Fingleton, of N.S.W., are playing with
the combined team. In view of the fact that
Victoria has to tackle Queensland in Bris-
bane on the same dates, no Cabbage Gar-
deners are available for the West.
* * #
“Gloom”: In the intervals of trying to
pick the winner of the Melbourne Cup, I
have been figuring out what bowlers Aus-
tralia has to meet the Englishmen. Of
course, there is Grimmett, but liis successes
have become a positive bore. Besides, though
he may never die, like all old soldiers at any
game, he is bound to fade away sooner or
later. More venerable than Grimmett is
Ironmonger, who wants a sticky pitch to
distinguish him as a Test-match bowler from
an easy mark for Sunday-school picnic bats-
men. There is not a fast bowler in sight
who looks really dangerous save the Queens-
land abo. Gilbert. Since he holds no sub-
stantive royal rank, as do some of the
members of the visiting side, he can hardly
be considered as eligible to represent his
native land, though doubtless he is a
descendant of kings. Much has been made
in English papers of Bowes’s ability to
“frighten ’em out.” Gilbert is well up to that
job, as we saw in the case of Don Bradman
on his first meeting with the Queensland
darky in Brisbane. Of the others, O'Reilly,
of N.S.W., and Flectwood-Smith, of Victoria,
are promising possibilities. But they are
medium and slow respectively. What we
need badly is another speed merchant of the
class of Tibby Cotter —the last real fast
bowler Australia has seen, and I am giving
you Jack Gregory and McDonald in.
“Five Ways”: The Sheffield Shield cricket
season opens this week in Brisbane, where
Queensland will be at home to Victoria. The
visitors are the best lot available in the Cab-
bage Garden, and the work of Fleetwood-
Smith in particular will be watched with
interest in view of Test-match possibilities.
Another who may have to work his way
into the Test sides this season is Ponsford,
who has had a pretty poor spin of late.
Smith, Ironmonger, Nagel and fast-bowler
Alexander are the leading trundlers. Queens-
land is trying out one or two new hands.
Great hopes are entertained of Govan, now
playing his first grade season since leaving
school. He is a googly bowler, and if he
makes good should prove a useful foil to the
abo. express, Gilbert. On their way home
the Vies, will tackle N.S.W. in Sydney and
then go on to meet England in Melbourne,
beginning November 11.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Archie Jackson, now definitely
settled in Brisbane, will considerably
strengthen the in-and-out Queensland batting
side. Other outlanders who will probably
wear the maroon blazer this season are the
ex-Victorian Gamble and W. C. Alexander,
of South Australia, who was looked on a
couple of seasons or so ago as a coming
international batsman, a promise he has not
fulfilled.
* * =:= *
“Jolimount”: Though the Tasmanian fast
bowler Nash, now domiciled in Melbourne,
will be available to play with Australian
teams against England if called on (B.
12/10/’32), he is not likely to show for Vic-
toria in the Sheffield games this season. The
rule requires that a player in these games
must have been resident in a State for at
least three months before he can represent
it. The only one of these games for which
the Tasmanian will be available is the return
match between South Australia and Victoria
at Melbourne, beginning on February 10.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: There is nothing much doing
in Australian tennis at present beyond
preparation for the arrival of the Americans,
who will hit Sydney on November 5 and play
the first match against N.S.W. on November
10-11-12. The tour will end with the fifth
tussle against Australia in Melbourne, and
the tourists will leave Sydney for Maoriland
the following week. They will put in three
weeks in the Shivery Isles.
$ $
“Let”: The N.S.W. tennis authorities are
pushing on with the big new grandstand at
Ruslicutter Bay. It is expected that it
will be finished by October 20, when it will
be formally opened at a tourney in which
amateurs and professionals, including Craw-
ford, McGrath and J. O. Anderson, will
appear in exhibition games. The other stand
on the opposite side should also be ready
by then, and after that the tennis heads
will have nothing to do but to sit back and
wait for the rush to the American matches
and the N.S.W. championships.
* * * :i-.
_ “Baseline”: The N.S.W. selectors have
picked nine men to practise for the forth-
coming State match with the Americans.
Crawford and McGrath head, the list, and
the others are Sproule, W. B. Walker,
Dunlop, Donohoe, the Willard brothers and
Thompson. All are to attend two practices
a week. The selection could be bettered.
Sproule and the Willards might be
given a rest on recent performances. There
is nothing wrong with Walker, save that
he does not get enough big tennis to help
him fulfil the promise of two or three years
ago. Dunlop also seems a bit out of place.
:S * * £
“Calaveras”: The unusual spectacle of
two Englishmen playing off for an American
tennis championship was staged in the tour-
ney for the Pacific Coast singles at ’Frisco
recently. The members of the American
team for Australia did not play, and the
semi-finals were left to Perry, Austin, Stef-
ani and Satoh. In the final Perry outed
POSITION VACANT.
SHORT-SIGHTED OLE LADY: “I’ve watched you digging for some time. When you’re
disengaged I can find a job for you in my garden.”
Austin without much trouble. Last year
he was runner up to the American national
champion, Ellsworth Vines.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: One reason for the falling-
off in popularity of motor reliability trials
(B. 5/10/’.32) is that they are apt, as at
present constituted, to become monotonous.
The Americans have been endeavoring to
counter this by instituting what they call
“turkey runs” for cars and motor-cycles.
The system of scoring is to give each com-
petitor 1000 points and to deduct from these
where penalties are incurred. Prizes consist
of turkeys and ducks. As one run may
cover as much as 150 miles or more of indis-
criminate going, the poultry is obviously well-
earned.
* ■* * *
“Ratio”: The Hobbs gearbox (B.
12/10/’32) furnishes a variable gear up
to the point when the propellor shaft
is turning at the same speed as the
engine. There is no clutch and no gear-
lever. Selection of gear is automatic, and
as the engine starts from rest the gearbox
automatically changes up as the speed of the
car increases. On a hill or bad road, the gear
changes down in the same way until the
necessary power is exerted to meet the situa-
tion.
v V V
“Binghi”: There has been some argument
in Europe lately over the origin of the heavy-
oil engine of the type generally credited to
the late Dr. Diesel. The barge has elicited
the fact that the first a ; rless injection engine
—as the “Trade” describes this type —was
invented by an Englishman, Stuart Ack-
royd, whose patents were taken up by the
Hornsby people in 1801. Engines of the
type were working five or six years before
Diesel was beard of. While on the sub-
ject some credit must be given to the Aus-
tralian abo., who discovered one of the
essential principles of the “Diesel” engine—
the igniting of the charge in the cylinders
by heat produced by sudden air compres-
sion. The aboriginal “fire piston” embodies
exactly that principle, and with it and a
bit of tinder to ignite the wherewithal for
cooking his dinner was never lacking.
i'fi * ❖
“Spocket”: It is hardly correct to say that
Lamb’s time for the Warrnambool-Mel-
bourne cycle road race was a world’s record
(B. 12./10/’32), since the distance, 165 miles,
is ridden nowhere else in the world save in
Australia. Milliken’s ride in the 100 miles
Colac-Melbourne spin is in another category.
The 100 miles on the roads is a favorite dis-
tance in other countries. English rider .C.
Marshall held the record with 4hr. 6min.
SOsec. Milliken beat this by 31min. 15sec.
Milliken has had a great season, for
a few weeks ago he won the Sydney-Goul-
burn race from scratch. In the test for Vic-
torian representation in the 100 kilometres
Australian championship, Milliken damaged
his machine. He borrowed another, and
though he was cut out as a competitor, made
an Australian record for the course. The
Victorian is probably the best amateur in
the world to-day.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: Not the least of the perform-
ances in the Warrnambool-to-Melbourne was
that of 76-year-old “Dad” Clarke. He was on
the limit mark but, riding a machine with a
75 gear, covered the 165 miles in 9hr. 35min.
58sec., 100 miles in heavy rain. It was his
eighth ride in the big road race and his feat
is probably unequalled in the history of
cycling.
The Nineteenth Hole
N.S.W. country golfers carried out their
annual invasion of Sydney last week. The
country singles went to G. W. Phillips, of
Lithgow, who is the holder of the title. His
card was 152 for the 36 holes at Kens-
ington, where the standard scratch score
is 78, so the performance was an exception-
ally good one. The foursomes were won
by the Narrandera pair, H. L. Culley and
C. F. Garrett. The latter is a son of T.
W. Garrett, the old international cricketer,
who is himself the keenest of golfers.
* * * *
“Delia” : Two unusual golf happenings were
reported in Sydney during Country Week.
Playing at Killara, Dr. Campbell, of Lith-
gow, sliced his drive. The ball flew towards
the road, along which a motor-car was being
driven at a good speed, and hit the car, with
the result that it was knocked back into a
good position qn the fairway. The grati-
fied owner chipped on to the green and holed
out with a birdie 3. In the foursomes on
the same course, Allsopp, of Kurri, had to
play a ball which his partner had landed in
a tree. After considering the matter, he had
an overhead chop at it, and managed to
get it out. The hole—the 13th —took 10
strokes.
“Amateur Pro.”: Poor prize-money is pro-
vided for pros, in the open championship.
The Australian Golf Council, which meets
once a year only, was recently worded about
the matter, but did nothing. A professional
winner of the open gets £35, with £l4 for
second place, £7 for third and £3 10s. for
fourth. The pro. has to pay all his own ex-
penses, and when he is a Sydney man playing
in Adelaide, or vice versa, the game is not
worth the candle. In Maoriland, the three
first prizes for professionals in the open
event are £4O, £25 and £25, while expenses
of travelling are far lighter. In all, Aus-
tralia allots £6O to thp professional players
in its open event while M.L. hands out
£ll5 in six prizes.
>l* $ $
“Sandringham”: A new terror is threat-
ening Melbourne golfers. The ball-stealer
is bad enough, even on private courses, but he
has now been joined by the club-pincher. These
gentry watch their chance to get away with
a bagful of clubs from a car, or wherever
they have been temporarily deposited, and
since spoil of the kind commands a ready
sale, do well at it. Among recent vic-
tims has been the Australian open cham-
pion, Mick Ryan. The epidemic has been
heard of in Sydney also. George Thompson,
the N.S.W. professional, has had a similar
experience, but better luck. A few days
after he had lost his lot two boys tried to
sell the bag and clubs at North Brighton
club. When cross-examined, they bolted,
leaving the bag behind.
“Divot Digger”: Golfing competitions for
returned soldiers seem to gain in popularity
every year, confirming the adage that old
soldiers never die. Anyway, 120 of them
mustered at the Lakes club, near Sydney,
the other day to take part in the annual
go for the “Steel Helmet.” The event is
a foursome stroke handicap over IS holes,
and was won by A. N. Brown and A. 1
Miller, of Bonnie Doon, with a net 72, their
handicap being 7. Last year’s holders, E.
W. Carr and J. W. Adams, defended their
title, but finished somewhere down the
course.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has broken out in a new place ivith golf
championship among the members of its
district clubs. Teams will consist of nine
players, and the clubs will play off in turn,
the event taking several weeks to decide.
The two clubs with the lowest aggregate in
the eliminating rounds will meet in a final.
There seems a chance in the idea of settling
the much-argued question of whether the
Union or the League is the better code. The
laws of amateurism prevent the matter being
threshed out on the football field. But in
golf the professional and the lilywliite may
clash with impunity. If the League follows
the Union’s lead with a golf competition a
clash between the winners of the two codes
should draw a good gate.
Miscellaneous
“Backswoodman”: N.S.W. bowlers have
been fortunate in their head serangs. From
the days of Joseph Young the guidance
of the game has been in good hands and the
tradition has been passed on by his succes-
sors. Three great leaders of modern days
were John Spence, Jim Wall and John
Scott. The two last named are happily
still with their fellow-bowlers. So well have
they done their job that the N.S.W. Bowling
Association has made the pair of them life
members—the first time the honor has been
conferred in the 52 years of the Association’s
existence. The rules limit the number of
life members to four. Election is by
ballot and it is worth noting that the voting
on the promotion of the two veterans was
100 per cent, of the roll.
“Gash Amateur” : That motion about keep-
ing paid club officials and attendants, such
as barmen, greenkeepers and stewards, from
playing for their clubs in Bowling Associa-
tion matches or competitions (B. 21/9/’32 l
was thrown out neck and crop by the N.S.W.
Bowling Association, as the snobbish imita-
tion of a Victorian ruling deserved to be.
The voting was 48 against the motion and
24 for it. Of course, the good old “disci-
pline” plea was put up by the supporters of
the motion, but it was, literally, laughed
out of court.
“Spike”: We are to get a visit from an
American team of amateur athletes after all.
The Victorian athletic heads, who have a
laudable habit of doing things instead of talk-
ing about them like some of their neighbors,
have received a cable saying that J. A.
Bausch, winner of the Decathlon at the
Olympiad; G. Sailing, who won the 110-
metre hurdles; Frank Wyko'ff, American
sprint champion, and B. Eastman, runner-
up in the 400 metres at the Olympiad, are
willing to come. The Australian authori-
ties have agreed and if all goes well the
men should arrive in January. They will
compete in Melbourne, . ydney and Brisbane.
“Fitzcray”: H. R. Weir, secretary of the
Victorian Amateur Athletic Association, has
been objecting to the increasing volume of
international sport as undermining the ama-
teur spirit. It has led to such unedifying
matters as the purchase and repurchase of
professional Cricketers and footballers
anxious to capitalise their sole talent, and
also to interminable wrangles over the rights
and wrongs of their cases which are an
offence to the principles of genuine sport.
Noteworthy is Weir’s claim that the hold-
ing of -international cricket and tennis
matches annually creates a coterie of players
who have, perforce, to live on the game.
His theory that the four years’ interval
allowed for the Olympiads conduces to ama-
teurism does not carry such weight. There
is too much evidence that many of the com-
petitors at recent Olympiads have been
professionals masquerading as amateurs.
& ❖ ❖ ❖
“Spartacus”: For gall, the English Rugby
League should take some beating. Welcom-
ing the returning North of England League
team one Watson, a League official, said no
Australian player had been, or would be.
approached within 12 months after any tour.
And wuile the fellow was talking, three Aus-
tralian players were on the high seas bound
for Lancashire and Yorkshire to play pro-
fessional football with local clubs!


m
-
«
WBBBBRHKF
\
m
\
*■
iai
■
Es«
■
:
1
1 .=j-r,s; J «il , ! 1.1.-, *V ■„£“•
o
i mm n p
"K
iHS
i! :;
■
iisiiii
Vllffl«|-I
' J
n
■
■I
m
m
11
. JSHii
11
■I I'":;?
1111
::: : i;
Hi
■
: :
A
Jm
imm -
BUILT WITH
CORD
Possessing 61% greater
stretch than ordinary cords,
the famous Supertwist Cord
means superior vitality,
longer life, and resistance
to road shocks that break
up ordinary tyres.
WHEN YOUR WIFE DRIVES,
when your family rides, when
you drive yourself, you want your
car equipped with the best tyres
money can buy. The best tyres
in dependability as in value —are
Goodyears. Don’t take our word
for it. Take the public’s. The
public knows. It uses tyres—all
kinds. Out of its experience with
all tyres, it buys more Goodyear
Tyres than any other tyre.
The ear-owners who are using
Goodyear Tyres to-day are getting
better tyres than ever before.
Better in mileage, an average of
30%. Better in non-skid tread
wear, 35%. Definitely better in
value. Yes, better tyres, the public’s
FIRST-choice, yet they cost no
more than second-choice tyres. No
wonder, is it, that "more people
ride on Goodyear Tyres than on
any other tyre.”
CIO-13-32


Position Wanted.
V BRUCE ROGERS, late assistant-
* manager Yarraview Stud Farms, Lily-
dale, Vie., late “Vacy,” “The Pastoral Re-
view,” seeks position as manager, assistant,
stud property or model dairy or stock and
land office or livestock or land journal.
Replies to “VACY,” YARANGERY, 34
Roseville Avenue, Roseville, N.S.A.
Personal and Missing Friends.
E~ STATE of WILLIAM JAMES ROSSER.
late of Sydney in the State of New
South Wales, Gentleman, Deceased, Intes-
tate. The Public Trustee of New South
Wales is the administrator of the estate
of the abovenamed deceased, who died at
Sydney intestate on the nineteenth day ot
December, 1930. . .
The intestate was born at Tredwin s Row,
St Mary, Cardiff. Wales, on 10/8/1861, and
was the son of William Rosser, Shipwright,
and Elizabeth Rosser, formerly Wedlake
Claims have been lodged with the Public
Trustee by nephews and nieces of the mtes-
t l LET the widow and children, _if any, and
all persons claiming to be entitled in the
distribution of the estate of the intestate
TAKE NOTICE that unless a claim by them
or any of them to be next-of-kin of the intes-
tate is received by the PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, aforesaid
within one month after this date, the Public
Trustee will distribute the estate of the
intestate amongst the next-of-kin of whose
claims he then has notice.
TV/ILL any descendants of MICHAEL
W DWYER, Irish patriot, communicate
with PATRICK FARRELL, C/o Box 16.
Wudinna South Australia?
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUTUMN CROCUS.
h
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
lQldlVd 3HI
[DIRECT MEDIUMTg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
DURING the past 40 years the “visible life
of Broken Hill” (estimated on the known
ore reserves) has gradually increased from five
years to twenty years. On this scale, in an-
other 40 years the “visible life of Broken Hill ’
will be 80 years after that. The longer this
great field is worked the more ore reserves
are exposed; and thus the “estimated life
grows more and more.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
that famous Broken Hill daily newspaper, will
be 100 years old long before the lode is
worked out.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Health Week is over, thank goodness!
While all these warnings , and good advice
about yellow fever 'and rabies, and teeth and
motherhood, and birth-control and hair, are
raging in the land, the sensitive, person with
imagination begins to crouch in terror or
the tentacles of pain clutching at her organs.
Not content with the cancer and T. 8.,
rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes and such that
wo have always with us, we’ve been given
another little bit of gloom to add to the
pack—the probability that yellow fever and
rabies will reach us in a generation or so.
Oh well, perhaps the next generation will be
stronger to cope with them —-let’s hope they
won't have a war to enfeeble them. Now,
lot’s look at spring hats and mesh stockings.
Lily Faulconbridge, the last of Henry
Parkes’s daughters, was buried at the week-
end : she had lived at Neutral Bay for many
years. There are still four of the old states-
man’s sons left —Varney, Lily’s brother;
and three step-brothers. Lily was the
youngest of tho girls: tho two first-horn
Henry and his Clarinda left behind them
when they sailed for Australia in 1839. Even
so early Henry dabbled in verse: —
And Heaven two sinless infants lent,
Whose graves are told with thine;
They came and went so angel-like 1
I dare not call them mine.
But never mind —the old man left us a far
better memorial than his verse. A new
generation shouldn’t be allowed to wander
in beautiful Centennial Park without being
more pointedly reminded of his far-sighted-
There are 40 water-colors in the Norman
Lindsay exhibition which Sydney Ure Smith
will open this (Wednesday) afternoon in
the Macleod Galleries, and twice as many
etchings, black-and-whites and prints. Among
all the -riches of glad color and fluent line
don’t miss “In Vain the Christian” —a large
black-and-white whose background alone,
one brother-artist affirms, would be three
years’ work for the pen of an ordinary man,
if the ordinary man were capable of even
beginning it.
How these authors from the Cold North
do gloom! There’s a slow congealing of
the marrow about their tragedies rather
than the swift letting of blood. Ibsen’s
“Ghosts” walked the stage of the Royal on
Saturday, and Sydney has not yet washed
away the memory. Sybil Thorndike came
out of the contest crowned with glory, and
son Christopher Casson, as the victim of
tho sins of the father, conveyed just tho
right sense of being a bit on the edge all
through. The Royal was not crowded for
the opening, but budding actors shouldn’t
miss the play. Sybil Thorndike, as the
wronged wife and widow who has built
around her sot of a husband almost the
reputation of a saint, turned a face to her
audience of one whose very* features had
been refined by suffering—liers was a
masterpiece of make-up and psychology. Her
frock was reminiscent of the old family
album —it was of thick black silk made with
a regular birdcage bustle. Watching her
kinswoman was Mrs. Russell Gillies, who
was Hilda Thorndike. Mrs. John Bavin and
Margaret Allen, in black; Mrs. Warwick
Fairfax, in lobelia-blue chiffons, and Miss
Nellie Veitch, flashing crystal above green
laces, were among well-dressed front-seaters.
Mrs. George Vivers has been one of the
keenest workers for the flower carnival to
aid the Industrial Blind. Ever since the
appeal started she had worked all day long
in the Castlereagh-street office. On Friday,
just as she was leaying the rooms, she was
struck by a tram, and was so seriously hurt
she had to he rushed off to Jenner Hospital.
She is now on the road to recovery.
Shirley Dent’s wedding to Phillip Arling-
ton Wilson was the swagger party of Satur-
day night. There were over 200 guests in
the pews at All Saints’, Woollahra, and more
to drink the toasts at Rose Bay Golf Club.
Country people were well to the fore, for
Shirley is the elder daughter of the John
Dents, of Red Hill, and other holdings, and
the ’groom grows sheep at Barraba. Best
man Adrian Vicars was from Uralla, Shir-
ley’s brother came from Queensland, and
one of the groomsmen, Bill Bishop, blew
in from Scone. The bride’s frock, of soft
white satin, had come from London, and it
had a very long train over which an equally
long tulle veil billowed and spread. Six
’maids in leaf-green satin, fitting as to
bodice and very long, were in the pro-
cession. They were finished off with long
green gloves and green straw hats.
Mrs. Sterling Levis won quite a buzz of
commendation from the audience in the
Savoy the other nigh’t for her Chelsea china
groups. The girls in their flowered and
flowing panniers and small side-tilted hats
languished or coquetted on their china bases,
as though they were indeed creatures of that
factory, at the corner of Justice-walk and
Lawrence-street, in which the great Doctor
Johnson once took it upon himself (wholly
without success) to show the ceramic
workers how much better the thing might bo
done. But it was the backgrounds woven
thickly of lilli-pilli leaves and bright with
azaleas, camellias and roses that surprised
by their close following of the old designs.
The little theatre was garlanded and fes-
tooned in the Chelsea tradition, and the
play of the evening was that romance of a
shop dedicated to the old and beautiful,
“Quinneys,” produced by George and Beryl
Bryant. The whole bill was appropriate to
the cause, which was the rather hard-up
Society of Arts and Crafts.
The B.N.A. fair has rather overshadowed
the carnival in aid of the Industrial Blind
which will he held in the Town Hall on
the 20th and 21st; up till last week thou-
sands of people rushed around with one
problem before their eyes—how ralse
money for the bush nurses. But thougn
that need w-as great, what more touching
than the fate of the “dark” men and women t
Even when blessed with riches so that they
eat full and sleep soft, theirs is a lot to
waken pity in the heart. Apart from its
appeal, this battle of flowers, this War ot
Roses, promises to be pictorial to a degree
that will surprise even Sydney. Ihe
Mayoress will open the carnival, high lights
of which will be the Pageant of Rose Queens
and the Horticultural Society’s annual show
—both at the Town Hall.
The pretty story of Saint Therese, of
Lisieux, has been dramatised by Father Mc-
Evoy, and l is now in rehearsal by the There-
sian Club for its first performance in Sydney.
The Theres.ian Club is formed of girls who
pledge themselves to help those in distress.
At present their energies are _ directed
toward the poor children of Darlinghurst,
and the production, which will run from
the 17th to the 21st November, will be the
culminating point of an. effort to raise a
thousand pounds. The life-story of a girl-
saint is an unusual theme for a Sydney
stage, but “The Little Flower” lias a particu-
lar place in the hearts of thousands of all
denominations. Harry Thomas is the pro-
ducer.
If Bassanio strolling along the Rialto had
been half such a lad as Clarence Murphy
looked in the part last Saturday, he must
have been a regular menace to Venice. In
between acts Clarence told Portia the details
of his niece Sylvia Paul’s wedding. . This
happens at five-thirty to-day, within St.
Mary’s. Sylvia describes it as a. casual wed-
ding ; nevertheless, she is clothing her wil-
lowy contours in de luxe beige cobweb-lace
swathed about the waist with brown velvet.
Hat, satin shoes and flowers are in the
same toning. Tho ’groom (Bobby Knightly-
Burne) will afterwards lead his bride into
Usher’s for dinner; Sylvia’s mother, Mrs.
C. L. Doherty, and young Uncle Clarence
will make up tho foursome. The rest of
the relations will disperse at the doors of
the Basilica.
The Tanda, blazing with Chinese lanterns
and electrics, drew the eyes of ferry travellers
on Friday night to No. 4 Circular Quay.
The dance, which was to the glory of Rose
Marie, the special bloom of the Transport
section in the War of the Roses, had been
arranged by Mrs. T. S. Gordon (lie’s the
head serang of Birt and Co.) and. the wife
of Dr. Crawford Robertson. Pink satin
delicate as the lining of a shell was worn
by the latter; Mrs. Gordon aired black laces
and brought two fledgling daughters, one of
wdiom, Victoria, is going with father when
he sets out next month for Europe. The
Mackay-Sims couple, with their Deborah and
Madeleine, were among the revellers. The
Tan da’s Captain Pilcher and Dr. Crawford
Robertson looked after everybody’s comfort.
Courage and enterprise are combined in
the widow of Dr. Thomas Henry Fiaschi,
the brilliant
man who ran
the No. 8
A u s t r alian
General Hos-
pital at Lem-
nos. When her
husband died
Mrs. Fiaschi
might have
retired into
the easy ways
of private life,
but she pre-
ferred to carry
on the busi-
ness of grow-
ing and mak-
in g wine,
started by her
husband near-
ly 50 years
ago. The doc-
tor was an
enthusiast
over the wine possibilities of his adopted
country, and started a vineyard, Tizzana,
with some cuttings sent from Italy by his
father. Tizzana is outside Windsor, on the
Sackville reach of the Hawkesbury, and here
the light wines are grown. At Mudgee Mrs.
Fiaschi grows her ports and tokays, the soil
of the Central Tableland being better suited
to produce their heavy sweetness. Mrs.
Fiaschi. who has her cellars and offices
under Little Georgc-street, is her own gen-
eral overseer and manager, so that she is
constantly travelling the country, a thing
that delights the Queensland girl (she is
a daughter of Captain W. E. Curtis, of Bun-
daberg). Before her marriage she was a
nurse in the Italian war zone, a few miles
away from the Austrian lines, and she is
very proud of her Mussolini war medals.
Eldest daughter Elisa, now at Ascham, in-
tends carrying on the Fiaschi tradition of
doctoring. Photo by Bulletin photo-
grapher.
Here’s a William Morris Hughes purring
with domesticity:—
Last week I hired a car and started to drive in
the London streets. You have no idea what that
means. But if you imagine Sydney at its worst
and then multiply the ears and ’buses by 10, you
will get some idea. Anyway, we have started out
on our travels and are in a most lovely place about
26 miles from London. We are in a beautiful old
house, set in a glorious landscape, three golf courses,
tennis galore—2ooo acres all told.
I play golf every day—of course we have only
been here three days, but you know what I mean.
Yesterday I went with Her Nibs to Marlow, a
lovely place on the Upper Thames, and played golf
there, while Mary smoked cigarettes and talked
scandal with a very nice woman—wife of a friend
of mine. The golf course at Marlow is a perfect
dream of English rustic beauty. This last week or
ten days it has been beautiful weather—for about
three weeks before that it was positively awful.
But when it’s flue here, it is so glorious that you
forget the bad weather and become a confirmed
optimist and believe that it will always be as it is
to-day.
Next Sunday we set out in earnest on our travels.
First we go to the Isle of Wight, where we stay
with friends, and then come back to Hampshire and
stay with Lord Forster; then we go across into
Wales. Then up through Liverpool to the Lakes
District; then on to Scotland, where we are to stay
with friends, including Lord Novar. We get back
to London about the first week in September. On
September 24 we go to Geneva—you know, of
course, that I am to be the second representative
of Australia on the League of Nations.
And now we come to the really important event
of our tour. Helen is 17 years old to-day. She
looks handsome in a velvet dress with an old
brooch. We have here the greatest portrait painter
in tho fashionable world, M. Laszlo, who, in his
time, has painted every king (almost) and queen,
Pope and fashionable beauty. Well, he says Helen
is like one of Botticelli’s pictures. She is certainly
having a great time, and the way she leads her
mother around is worth going miles to see.
And I have given up smoking—again. And once
more my cough has disappeared.
Marble floors and counters bronze grills
and enough massy white pillars to accom-
modate a generation of Samsons are the
shrine for this Letter’s cash-and-carry
account in the just-opened chamber of the
Commonwealth Bank. You’d almost think
you wero stepping into the Hall of Kings
in the home of some Persian monarch of
•old when you pass through the doorway into
what a high, unsightly fence has been _ hid-
ing for years. To add to the effect of the
romantic there are balconies overlooking the
far end of the chamber. What Dulcineas
might not any moment peep out from their
depths! You sigh when a bank officer, see-
ing your entranced gaze, murmurs that that’s
the mezzanine floor. You don’t argue with
him. Then going into a corner you calcu-
late how long it will take your savings to
amount to a full cargo for the bank’s eight
ton lift, which is at the moment conveying
the bullion-waggon from the Rowe-street
entrance and lowering it holus-bolus into
the strongroom. Then you begin to wonder
if you will ever be able to pass the impres-
sive marble portico inside the principal
doorway without a curtsey. Its marble is
from Mudgee and glows gold and amethys-
tine.
Here’s the new photograph which Portia
Holman in . England had specially taken to
reach her
father in Aus-
tralia on his
birthday. Por-
tia has red-
go 1 d hair,
brown eyes
and a milk-
anu-roses com-
pl e x ion, in
addition to a
Cambridge de-
gree in econo-
mies. She is,
reports from
London tell,
amusing and
studious, and
is making psy-
chology her
life work. The
photogr apli
was taken by
another sweet
girl graduate
of Cambridge. Portia was the heroine of both
those charming child books, “Adventures of
Woodeny” and “Elka Reve Ree,” written by
her mother, Mrs. W. A. Holman. The
author has now written three one-act plays,
and these will be presented by Doris Fitton
and Mrs. Clem Hammond, at David Jones’s,
on the morning of Saturday, Oct. 29, to aid
Prince Alfred Hospital Jubilee Fund. One
of the plays, “Three Little Dears,” was_ the
winner in the “best boys-and-girls section’'
of the recent Children’s Theatre drama con-
test.
Amy Cecilia Kitching was handed over to
the charge of Reginald Aiken at one of the
prettiest weddings to the score of St. Augus-
tine’s at Neutral Bay. The ivory whiteness
of her raiment (satin and Brussels lace) was
in keeping with the masses of arum lilies
which decorated the church; a small flower
girl looked like a figurine from a nursery
rhyme in her long pink and white flowered
muslin and poke bonnet, and two maids in
puffy pink taffetas attended the bride. Toasts
followed at the Raymond in Neutral Bay.
and as the Kitchings are old inhabitants of
that cubist suburb (the new Mrs. Aiken
was for four years in charge of the kinder-
garten of St. Augustine’s Sunday school),
the affair was quite a gathering of neigh-
bors and old friends. Bridegroom’s father
was the late Dr. P. N. Aiken, of Kensington ;
bride’s pa is head of the Commission which
sees that the poor gas cos. don’t starve them-
selves to death. Murrumburrah will be the
new couple’s address.
Isabel McDonagh, who, as Marie Lorraine,
appears as the heroine of the films made by
herself and her two sisters, has decided to
enter on a lifelong contract under the man-
agement of Charles Stewart. Charles
comes to Sydney from Singapore by way of
Maoriland. where he has been doing deep-
sea fishing. In Singapore he is known as
a rubber-grower. Isabel is the eldest daugh-
ter of the late Dr. John McDonagh, a well-
known Sydney medico.
This Letter has often wondered why it
felt a constant urge to buy something. As
you come to a shop door the conscious says
“Go on, you know you’ve only got 2Jd. in
your purse.” But the subconscious prods
you to tick up a tube of Toots’s tooth snow,
or chase away gloom with a pot of rose
bloom, or “eat breakfast scrat and you’ll
never be fat.” The mystery was solved the
other day at the Poster Exhibition in the
Blaxland Galleries when ’the dreadful news
was loosed that there are 450 commercial
artists in Sydney. Jolly good workmen, too,
some of them, judging by the display of this
first exhibition promoted by the Sydney
Publicity Club. Some of the travel posters
in this show have atmosphere and “pull.”
There are striking ones of the Harbor, the
Bridge, Katoomba, the Barrier Reef and
Papua. Minister for Education Drummond
and Lud Mayor Walder and R. S. May-
nard were among the speakers at the
opening.
Gordon Esling, who has a sound one-
man show at the Grosvenor Galleries this
week, was a pupil of Julian Ashton and
Gruner, and for a year or two put art into
the backcloths of J. .C. Williamson pro-
ductions.
There is one wrong to the sex that is
shrieking aloud to Feminists the world over
for vengeance. Eggcups are being put on
the market by dozens bearing the legend
“Laid to-day,” while opposite the words a
rooster crows trumphantly.
Brisbane brevities:—
The Queensland Press Institute had a luncheon
party at Rowe’s for the John Brownlees, the
president, General Spencer Browne, and his wife
welcoming them in a setting of red roses. Mrs.
Brownlee was in navy, with a white hat; Mrs.
Browne chose black and beige.
Tom Welsby is presenting his collection of letters
to the Historical Society of Queensland. Jimmy
Tyson, Thomas Mcllwraith, Lady Carrington and
Henry Parkes are among those represented.
At St. Peter’s, Southport, Stanley Phipps married
Peggy Annand. The bride, who was given away by
her father, was in nasturtium-tinted georgette. Mrs.
W. E. Martin, her sister, was matron of honor in
sprigged primrose marquisette.
At St. Patrick’s, Laidley, Patrick O’Farrell and
Jean Lester were made one. Chantilly lace and
ivory satin frocked the bride. Susan and Maude
Lester ’maided in turquoise blue. Some hundred
guests feasted in the Forest Hill School of Arts.
St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church was filled with
spring blossom when William Earwaker married
Freda, only child of the late Dr. and Mrs. Andrew
Stewart. Brigadier-General Grant gave the bride
away; she was in magnolia bridal satin with tulle
veil worn under rare old Honiton lace. Beatrice
White, Sydney, and Phyllis Billington ’maided in
petal pink Swiss spotted muslin. Brigadier-General
and Mrs. Grant entertained the guests at their
Clayfield home.
Deputy-Governor C.-J. Blair and his lady were
at the supper arranged by the Mayor and Mayoress
to the John Brownlees in . the City Hall. Rita
Miller, Madeleine Clarke, Raymond Lambert and A.
Longland were other guests.
Alexander Poole, who was killed while attempting
to stop a runaway horse at Newstead, was born in
Ireland 95 years ago. He went to sea young and
after being a Moreton Bay pilot was one of the
diggers on the Palmer. His wife, Francis Robinson,
was the daughter of the first white woman married
in Brisbane.
Vincent Derrick married Joan Shoebridge in St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given away
by her brother, wore ivory satin and a Brussels net
veil. Lulu Shoebridge ’maided in Nile green. The
feasting was at Kenyan, Wilson, the home of the
bride’s aunt.
Four debs, were presented to the Governor at the
Dalby Ambulance Ball in St. Joseph's Hall. Victor
Drury was host; the Mayoress (Mrs. Jack) and
Mrs. Victor Drury presented the debs., and Boy
Scouts and members of the Ambulance made a guard
of honor. At Toowoomba the C.W.A. feted Lady
Wilson and her daughter. ,


Doctors
Warn
Surfers
m
... ii
m
m.
i
■ * ***
m
m
•iWsSv.’••••• '•=
“Unless bathers thoroughly soap and shower when they leave the
water the pores of the skin will clog and refuse to perform their
normal function of discharging Waste poisons from the body."
This is the warning issued by doctors
All kinds of complications can develop through slight neglect and it is
extremely necessary that every bather should use a genuinely germi-
cidal toilet soap. Tenax Germicidal Toilet Soap comes at the moment
of greatest need! It is the only soap containing Ti-trol, a germicide
more potent than carbolic, yet non-irritant and non-poisonous.
As you lather with Tenax you liberate the powerful Ti-trol which
neutralises infection. . . .cleanses the pores. . . .and leaves the skin clear
and healthy. An emulsion from Tenax Soap killed typhoid bacilli in
twenty seconds.
Rub Tenax well between the toes and let the lather remain for some
time before rinsing—this is a prevention against the dreaded “Surfers*
Foot.’*
Tenax Corrects Dandruff
Tenax Germicidal Toilet Soap is a delightful corrective of all hair and
scalp ailments. Tests prove that Tenax destroys dandruff organisms
—invigorates the glands —and nourishes the hair.
Use Tenax regularly —it is one of the safest precautions against germ
infection of every kind —and remember, Tenax Soap has the endorse-
ment of the Medical Profession.
.!!
0,
TENAX
The Genuinely Germicidal Toilet Soap
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
M
m m
m
-VI
CONTAINING TMROL
“Keep the Sunshine in your hair”


f‘
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
J 2 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
HOUSEHOLD PACES
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LADYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
ii Etc. Etc. Etc. ,
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6!
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
the mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address : “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Clk n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to—
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Though it rained on Saturday morning
the weather cleared in the afternoon, and
a great crowd went to the Heath to see the
Caulfield Cup run. The abundant rain of
' the preceding week had made the course a
study in green, and the flowerbeds were look-
ing their best. Great masses of pink rhodo-
det ..rons stood in green tubs at the entrance
to the members’ stands. Dressing, as was
to he expected in the circumstances, was
not very smart, but a cheerful air was given
to almost every feminine toilette by sprays
or posies of flowers on coat-lapels. Lilies-
of-tbe-valley were much in favor for this
purpose. Roses made a splash of color on
many a dark suit, and one lady achieved
originality with yellow irises upon a brown
fur necklet. Just here and there in the
crush there was a whisper of summer in
the form of a filmy frock peeping from
beneath a wintry coat. One brave soul
defied the chilliness in cornflower-bluc lace
with a matching crinoline straw hat. There
were a few very smart coats, and envious
glances were cast upon one of lime green
with a huge collar of snow leopard fur.
But most women favored dark-brown
tailored costumes, many being relieved with
pale amber vests or blouses.
Governor-General Isaacs and Lieut.-
Governor Irvine were at the big luncheon
party put on by Ben Chaffey, chairman of
the V.A.T.C., and his committee. Premier
Argyle was a guest there, accompanied by
Count de Baillet Latour. The Irvine lady,
who wore black cloth, with a caracule collar
and cuffs and small black velvet hat, was
at the meal hostessed by Mrs. Ben Chaffey,-
who was in black with a black velvet coat,
fur-collared. She was accompanied by Mrs.
Hugh Main, of Sydney, also in a black
turnout, and Florence McPherson. Mrs.
Merson Cooper had with her her daughter,
Mrs. Xavier de Bavay, from Tasmania.
Eleanor Willis, one of the successful wearers
of brown, was there with Mrs. H. P. Willis.
Mrs. Russell Clarke was a study in cigar
brown in suit and felt hat. Mrs. Alan
Currie’s ensemble of sapphire blue was
topped with a shady hat. Mrs. Oscar Lem-
priere came with her daughter Margot.
Mrs. Len Buxton combined a plaid skirt in
tones of blue with a navy cloth short coat
and white straw sailor hat. Mary Baillieu
favored brown, her frock having sleeves and
yoke of shaved fur. Others in the throng
of patrons were the Luxton lady, with Mrs.
U. J. Nicholas; Dr. Lucy MacMahon, of
Sydney; Mrs. Fred Knight, sporting Air
Force blue; Mrs. R. G. Casey, the Richard
Lintons, Mrs. Harold Anderson from Gee-
long, Mrs. Percy Frankenberg, all in bottle-
green, Justice E. McTiernan and Spencer
Brunton.
One of the outstanding exhibits at the
Women Painters’ Exhibition at the Athcnauim
recently was a
port rait of
Mrs. Stanley
Addison by the
subject of this
D i c k i n s on-
Monteath pic-
ture, the wife
of me d i cal-
knight James
Barrett. She
got her art
training at the
National Gal-
lery here, and
for several
years was a
regular exhi-
bitor. Of late
she has again
taken up her
brush and
palette. The
Barrett lady
shares her
husband’s interest in the Northcote Trust of
the Uni. Con., and she is a member of the
council of the Emily McPherson College of
Domestic Economy.
Rain fell on the Melbourne Hunt Club’s
race meeting at Moonee Valley, and patrons
and geegees slushed through mud, the riders
in the various events becoming almost un-
recognisable after a few furlongs. The big
event of the afternoon, the Hunt Club’s Cup
Steeplechase, was won by Jack Doran on
Coorong. A. T. Creswick handed the cup
to the steed’s owner. Mrs. O. C. Moore,
wife of the master of the M.H.C., was there
in fawn-colored raincoat, tweed suit and
beret. Others present were Major-General
Johnston, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Magennis,
&he in brown with a felt hat; Mrs. J. B.
Bellair and her daughter Sheila, who wore
a black and blue tweed costume and blue
felt hat; Mrs. Bruce Mead, who topped a
black suit with a white woollen crotchet
beret; Mrs. Fred Gilder, the Douglas Faulk-
ners, the Keu Moores and Mr. and Mrs. R.
M. Cuthbertson.
For the Aero Club’s dance at the Wattle
Path, St. Kilda, which drew an attendance
of 700, the setting of the official table was
made to resemble the cabin of a giant ’plane,
picked out in fairy lights in the club’s colors,
two blues and gold. There was also on the
damask a miniature Junker ’plane, a replica
of that flown by Captain Bertram, who was
guest of honor. An amusing interlude of
the hop was a race, in which the competi-
tors propelled themselves in little ’plane-
shaped conveyances along the ballroom floor.
Captain Bertram won; Theo Shall. W. L.
Stribling, Lieut.-Commander Hall and Rich-
ard Allen, of Melbourne, who lately flew
solo from England, also ran. The gold
badge of the club and a laurel wreath were
handed to Captain Bertram by the presi-
dent, Cecil McKay, as a memento of the
gathering. Mrs. McKay, who wore mush-
room-pink angel-skin, headed the com-
mittee of women. Mrs. Guy Moore danced m
wood-brown lace. Miss Sleight featured the
colors of the club in a frock of amber-hued
organdie and a wreath of cornflowers. Mrs.
Stribling achieved simplicity with a black
velvet sasb upon a white muslin gown. June
Baillieu, just back from England, sported a
black velvet, the front of her bodice being
of white. and crystal embroidered net, with
a deep belt of silver and bugle beads. Sandra
Shackell looked smart in white angel-skin,
and Elaine Blogg wore cyclamen mauve
chiffon with a velvet jacket of deeper tint.
White angel-skin lace with a black velvet
sash and a black-and-white necklace graced
Joan Syme. Dr. and Mrs. L. Kidd, Com-
mander Langford and Molly, she in soft
green, the Keith Riordans, and Mr. and
Mrs. W. Mitchell were others in the throng.
For the coming-out of their second daugh-
ter Elizabeth, otherwise Betty, the Leslie
Macphersons, of Toorak, put on a dance at
their home on Caulfield Cup eve, preceded
by a dinner party at Menzies’. The hostess
wore lame that blended tones of blue and
green with bronze. The debutante wore with
her white chiffon frock a silvery sequin cape
with a spray of lilies of the valley. Her
elder sister Ketha sported a boron : a-pink
georgette gown with shaded pink and purple
flowers about the corsage edge and at the
waistline. Among the few married folk at
the party, which was mainly for young
people, were Mrs. Robert Knox, robed in
black velvet; Mrs. Bruce Meade, in white;
Mrs. Yal Macdonald, in black lace. Deidre
Grantham’s pink silk pique frock had a wee
design in black, and Barbara Lyon donned
white angel-skin lace and tulle. Jane Winte-
r was smartly attired in geranium-red
fiat crgpe; Sue Parker, from Hay, chose a
frock of leaf-green hue. Janet Landale,
Prudence Staughton and Margery Stephens
were others in the throng.
Pictured here
by a Dicken-
son - Monteatli
camera, is
M rs. Be n
Chaffey, wife
of the chair-
man of the
V.A.T.C. Like
her husband,
she is very
popular, being
willing to give
a helping
hand to any
good cause.
She is also
greatly inter-
est e d in
horses, and
longs for the
day when an-
other M a n-
f red will
carry the
Chaffey colors.
Ai tilt- knot-tying of Lieutenant-Com-
mander Geoffrey Aitken Hall, son of Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. T. F. W. Hall, of Toorak,
and Gretta, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. D. McCulloch, of St. Ivilda, the
bride, who was unattended, wore a frock of
Air Force blue wool georgette with match-
ing coatee and smart straw hat.
The engagement is announced of Valda,
second daughter of the J. B. Thompsons,
of Kew, and Charles, son of the late Sir
Arthur Wilson and Lady Wilson, of London.
Introduced by Senator Elliott, Mrs. J. G.
Latham launched the annual show of the
Arts and Crafts Society at the Town Hall.
Signora Benini shows some exquisite filmy
lace handkerchiefs, some fine linen ones,
minutely embroidered, and a couple of child-
ren’s frocks. Specimens of cross-stitch
work, tapestry, hardanger, eylet and other
embroidery are the contributions of other
members. Philippa James, who makes pot-
tery, is represented by two jars of oxidised-
iron shade lined with the loveliest blue. An
Adelaide exhibitor, Mrs. Goodehild, has
several figure pieces highly glazed. Some
attractive shopping baskets figure among the
wares of the raffia workers. Miss Butehart,
Mrs. Stewart Murray and Mrs. Veiteh
exhibit articles of hand-woven linen, wool
and silk. In books for the Shrine of Re-
membrance, J. S. Forman, Charity Friend
and Shirley Southby prove that the ancient
art of illuminating records still flourishes.
Mannequin parades are run in connection
with the show, featuring garments in hand-
printed cr§pe de Chine, silks and linens, and
hand-woven silk and woollen materials. A
bunch of society girls directed by Mrs.
Oswald Syme displays frocks for all
occasions. Mrs. George Bell, who in-
troduced the ■ various models on a recent
occasion, wore an attractive evening gown
of black crepe de Chine patterned in
a floral design in dull green and petunia
shade. Among the mannequins are Beverley
Jackson, Anne and Elizabeth Stawell, Nancy
Syme, Jean Lawrence and Maisie Cowper.
To aid the Mission of St. James and
St. John, Dr. and Mrs. O. R. Merrillees
sponsored a show of antiques at their St.
Kilda home, -where there was a brave dis-
play of old silver. The many pieces were
placed amid groupings of irises and roses.
Many periods and many lands were repre-
sented, an interesting item being a solid
silver salver presented to Major Thomas
Bell in 1826 by the people of Van Diemen’s
Land.
Pianist John Simons was the guest of
the British Music Society on the eve of his
departure for England. Trios of Beethoven
and Brahms were played by pianist Rita
Hope, violinist Coral Trenerry and ’celloist
Ilelga Brennecke, and Isabel Biddell lifted
her contralto voice in songs by Brahms and
Mahler. Red and purple anemones bright-
ened the reception-room of the Lyceum Club
for the occasion.
The audience at “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” which opened on Saturday night
at the Royal, was largely white-fur wrapped.
The Robert Bests were there, with daughter
Helene, in cherry-red, others who enjoyed
the Gilsnllivan operetta being Mrs. W. A.
Williams, Mrs. P. Dean, the Misses Turner,
Mrs. Leo Johnson and Mrs. C. Kingston
and her daughter.
At Mount Lavinia Hotel, Colombo, there
will shortly be an orchestra of Australian
musicians. lima Cook, who was leader of
the orchestra at the Ambassadors some time
ago, has accepted a six months’ engagement.
She lately toured in India and Ceylon with
the Southern Cross Ladies’ Orchestra, of
which her violinist sister Sylvia was a
member.
Dr. Gwen Kaines, who is a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Kaines, of Kew, left
for England during the week by the Swedish
ship Mirrabooka. The medico was senior
resident surgeon at the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital for a time, and then served in a similar
capacity at the Children’s Hospital, Perth.
She travels as ship’s doctor.
W. J. Ryan, of the Federated Malay
States, arrived by the Otranto to join his
wife and children on a holidav here, and
the party is settled at a flat in Cotham-road,
Kew. While awaiting her husband’s arrival
Mrs. Ryan, who came ahead with the family,
stayed with her parents, the Victor Wischers,
Kew.
From the Apple Isle: —
Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay are home again. They had
a look at Java, Borneo and Singapore, and the
doctor thinks we are missing our opportunities of
establishing more trade with those parts.
The John Kennedys have bought a property at
Wattle Hill. Mrs. Kennedy is one of the props of
the Lyceum Club’s literary circle, but hopes to keep
up her connection with the club.
Jean Walker, after three years’ training in London
hospitals, has been appointed almoner at the Hobart
General Hospital. This post is an innovation in
the Speck, but its need is well recognised in other
cities.
Mrs. H. W. Rhode, Japan, who has been staying
with her sister, Mrs. Landon Fairthorne, Launceston,
was guest of honor at a bridge-tea party given by
Mrs. Fairthorne at the Brisbane Hotel. Tables were
set out in one of the lounges, and tea served in
the drawing-room upstairs. Gorgeous tulips in all
shades and dark pansies in crystal bowls made the
decorations.
“Old Launcestonians” chose Show Week for their
Annual Ball, as so many old scholars of the Church
Grammar School were in the North at that time.
The Albert Hall blazed with a color scheme of orange
and lighter yellows; the same colorings in flower
arrangements were used on the supper tables. The
Lieut.-Gov. and his lady were among the guests,
who also included Commander and Mrs. T. Eardley
Wilmot, Mr. and Mrs. S. R. Adams, Gen. and Mrs.
W. Martin, Col. and Miss Harrap, Mr. and Mrs.
H. V. Jones, Mesdames C. Irving, Holland, Beveridge,
Mrs. H. Gillett and Miss Kate Richardson. Armi-
tage’s orchestra made the music.
Mrs. Henry Dobson celebrated her 90th birthday
in good health and eheeriness and had a great time
receiving bouquets and congratulations. The Lyceum
Club, of which she is president, gave a party in
her honor. Mrs. Dobson has put up a wonderful
record of social service in and for the Speck.
The Hobart Symphony Orchestra, Glanville Bishop
conducting, gave a good programme to a full house
in the Town Hall. The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady,
and the Mayoral Wignalls patronised the concert, at
which Schumann, Beethoven and Schubert were all
levied on. Madame Helen George was piano soloist,
and Madame Vera Tasma vocalist. Mrs. B. E.
Saunders’s accompaniments were excellent.
The long worked-up Eastern Fair in aid of the
Tas. Sanatorium, organised by the Wattle League,
filled the City Hall chock-a-block on the opening
night, when the Lieut.-Gov. did the opening. The
Asian illusion in the arrangement of stalls was
remarkably good, and various side-shows on the
big stage kept people amused all the time. 'The
advisory committee included Mrs. Stoyles, Mrs. F.
X. de Bavay, Mrs. W. Jones, Mrs. Alan Miller,
Messrs. Brendan Clarke and A. D. Cooper. The
Fair ran for over a week.
Adelaide advices:—
Roseworthy College burst into its annual festivity
the other night. Decorations were carried out in
the college colors, pink and black. Dr. Callaghan
(principal) and his wife received the guests, she in
black lace, with a pink shoulder spray. A large
number of guests motored from the city.
Fur coats were seen again at Morphettville. Whit-
more Carr (chairman of the S.A.J.C.) entertained on
both days of the meeting at afternoon tea. On
the first, Mrs. Lance Lewis, wearing a polka-dotted
navy and white cr&pe-de-Chine suit, with a red,
white and blue scarf, and white felt hat, was
acting hostess; on the second, Mrs. R. M. Cud-
more figured in the same capacity, her brown
tailored coat with collar of silver fox fur being
worn with a brown velour hat.
There is no slackening in the entertainments for
deserving causes. The Ladies’ Guild of St. Peter’s
College Mission, assisted by the St. Peter’s Collegians’
Association is arranging a bridge party to be held
in the College Memorial Hall, and there is to be a
ball on the Westralia in aid of the Missions to
Seamen. The S.P.C.A. has just had a successful
bid for funds. The fancy dress ball brought in
£125, the competition for the most popular dog
£4BO, a “dogs’ garden'party” £5OO-odd. It would
seem that among hitherto un-noted traits of the
German sheep-dog is a rooted objection to music;
directly the band started to play, the 40-odd
Alsatians in the show ring howled in chorus. The
Bruce lady, president of the S.P.C.A., presented
the prizes.
The Rose Show promises to be a great success.
The Moulden lady, who recently returned from Eng-
land, has again undertaken, in conjunction with
Mrs. Fred Porter, to decorate the Town Hall with
roses.
The Boy Scouts’ Association Ball in the Palais
Royal was quite a society gathering. His Ex. and
Lady Hore-Ruthven arrived early, with Captains O.
H. Williamson and T, E. Barr Smith in attendance,
and Mr. and Mrs. Legh Winser. Mrs. Julian Ayers
was convener of the cap and balloon stall, while
Mesdames Herbert Rymill and J. G. Duncan Hughes
presided over the cigarette stall. Mrs. W. E. Coombes
was assisted at the flower stall by numerous pretty
girls.
Mrs. G. H. Dean entertained the new members of
the Victorian League at Sturdington, Mount Lofty,
at afternoon tea. About 30 guests were present.
The way of the West:—
A multitude of record proportions went to the
Show. On the opening day the animals smelt spring
in the air, and the friskiest young bulls broke away
from the grand parade and their Boy Scout attend-
ants to prance in gleeful freedom, but they were
not unfriendly cattle and ignored the intrusion of a
scarlet-clad feminine visitor to the ring. Miss
Northmore, who came with the Administrator, was
wrapped in a fur-collared tailored coat. Mrs. Thorley
Loton, wife of the Agricultural Society’s president,
the Mitchell and the Lathlain ladies were others in
the members’ stand. Among the girls was Jean
Loton, in diagonal blues and reds; Norma and
Mollie Brennan both wore black and furs; May
Camm’s tailored suit had a wide patent belt; and
Mrs. P. G. Hampshire’s Assam coat and skirt showed
a hair stripe running diagonally.
A day straight off Antarctica blew up for the
President’s Handicap. Gales had spread a mauve
carpet of wistaria around the palisade, but roses
and stocks survived the weather and the pansies
looked as if they enjoyed it. The parking paddock
was a squelchy bog and the unwary had to do some
pushing in their best shoes. The W. H. Vincent
family was there in force to see Olympian gallop
home in the big race. Mrs. Lavan, Mrs. Geoff Lynn
and Elsie Paxton were among the sumptuously fur-
coated Mrs. Frank Malloch and Mrs. Reg Summer-
hayes did dual punting in smart black suits ; Mrs.
Temperley, in grey tweeds, brought Josephine, whose
coat boasted smart zip pockets. S. Aus. visitors,
Mrs. Watson and Miss Saunders, wore respectively
pesehaniki and bottle-green cloth coats; Mrs. Langlois
Lefroy had a foot of wispy feather stuck triumphantly
in her millinery; Mrs. John Hargrave wore speelcly
tweed; Alice Walsh’s tweed coat had the pride of
skunk upon collar and cuffs; Lois Weir contrasted
a cream coat and beret with black rubber boots;
Mrs. Eustace Cohen was all black even to her
hosiery; Joy Lathlain tied a pussycat bow of tartan
under her fur coat, and a silver fox lay across the
shoulders of the black tailored suit worn by Mrs.
Nelson Mills.
Old Guildfordians made a night of it during Show-
Week. Mrs. Freeth came to the dance in the
Y.A.L. hall in old rose and a dull tissue coatee. Among
the dancers were Ruth Barrett-Lennard in diaphanous
greeny chiffons, Joyce Burridge in black, Vance
Anderson in patterned ninon, and Marjorie
Tindale in cornflower laces. Kathleen Cramond wore-
petunia tints; Joy Hill was in scarlet; Marie
Andersori chose moss-green with a suggestion of
gold and a trend towards a bustle; Joyce Wishart
mixed cocoa lace and georgette, and Mrs. Elton
Williams green chiffons and velvet.
P.L.C. old girls danced to the tune of their
Alma Mater in the Karrakatta Club. President of
the Old Girls’ Association, Nessie Horgan, scattered
words of welcome in white organdie and a floating
pink bow of satin. Miss Pliemister, the college’s
principal, wore rusty georgettes; Mrs, Ogden, a
predecessor of Miss Phemister, was in black; Dr.
Vera Summers rustled taffetas of periwinkle-blue;
Sheila Royley’s choice fell upon gum-tip green; Jean
Wingrove wove peach-pink and Dulcie Armstrong lilac.


You tAu English Ccw
ENGLAND HAS ANSWERED
THE DEMANDS OF'
AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS !
“Should be specially powered for
Australian conditions,” you said ...
Vauxhall’s engine is rated at 26
h.p. and develops 61. It has six
cylinders—no more, no less. With
more you needlessly sacrifice
economy, with less you get
vibration!
“and easy to handle with an effort-
less gear change”
Here’s “finger-tip” steering—and
Synchro-Mesh Transmission with a
truly Silent-Second gear. And an
adjustable driving position with
positive controls within easy reach.
“Must be a car that looks smartly modern
and dignified . . . with a sturdy body and
real riding comfort at all times”
Vauxhall gives refined English beauty.
Bodies by Holden. Semi-elliptic springs—
overslung front—underslung rear. Love-
joy hydraulic shock absorbers. Interiors
delightfully snug and well finished.
Australian
coachwork that
equals the
world’s best.
m
mm®
Priced from £315, this famous 1933
Vauxhall is the outstanding motor
car value
The 1933 Vauxhall can be rightfully claimed as the only
low-priced English car specifically built to meet the de-
mands of Australia’s motoring conditions.
Silent Synchro-mesh is an outstanding feature. With it,
gear changing is reduced to a mere flick of the lever. It is
an added safety factor, too. And its truly Silent-Second
gear adds an entirely new and thrilling sensation to driving!
This 1933 Vauxhall proves that England has more than
answered the demands of Australian motorists. It has
created new standards of English car performance and
values in Australia.
Be fair to yourself —know before you buy! The only way
for you to appreciate what this car offers is to test it your-
self. Your dealer will give you a trial run without the
slightest obligation.
Yauxhall
Consult your
LOCAL AUTHORISED
VAUXHALL DEALER
«>(!


:
mm
Sill
*
B
*
L‘i-1
1
I
I
v\S
'VSi’S*'
C M
ener
of;
'sa
in i u
n iium
ISid
J fliijl
. Si
*3??
'in'.til
ft
Lilt
i!
V® n p
£!
he:
L
I! !f
id
•>il
f?.
US
Si f
If It 111
Hu!
0
IXP
<B3
N
iS
is
BY
3TLED
LIMIT
S^EWEBV
EY
//
#
//
M//
-~£s»
iSS
yy:
y V
y//,
1
'■*£a> a .
.i
M
r 'fit
vU!^
_ cv
o ,o
\v\y
IW
<5 <3-
52)
«>
#
*
iSY
n
»V *AV


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis : Patsy Quirk, Illawarra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
Carlisle, an artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing,
‘\The Awakening of Titania.” Buff
pronounces it “ ’ot stuff”; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to come
for an outing. She declines, telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “Titania”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Dcs
Quirk gets five years for attempted
murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Des is quite re-
signed. Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff’s
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy.
Chapter XXII.
P|ATSY found himself sentenced to a long
period of idleness. The first of the new-
comers whom the Stadium had imported
fell unexpectedly before Pommie Smith,
who had been picked for the express pur-
pose of being beaten. The stranger came
with a big reputation, and it was deemed
good business to let him have a few easy
fights and work his way up to a glorious
climax when he met Patsy. But when
Pommie Smith sent him out in five rounds,
a match with Patsy was out of the ques-
tion.
The second man on the roster as a
prospective opponent had scarcely landed
before he developed appendicitis, and was
therefore on the retired list for months.
The third had not yet left his native land
and would need a few weeks after arrival
to get into form. Altogether Patsy missed
about four months.
He spent much of his time w,ith his
mother and father; but, without work, the
inaction grew irksome to one of his energy.
The nights were interesting because he was
able to knock about with his old friends.
There was always somebody to meet and
yarn with in the street, when he wasn’t
visiting their homes, going to dances or
sparring at the surf club. But the days
hung heavy on his hands.
When he had motored his mother over
the whole district, dug up the garden from
fence to fence and finished a new cowshed
his father had started, the outlook was
blank.
Patsy was not fitted by temperament to
be one of the idle rich. What made for his
success in the ring, apart from his victories,
was that he always made it a fight. From
the gong, Patsy was on the aggressive. For
the tactics of three punches a round and
the rest clinching, he had nothing but con-
tempt. So was his attitude towards life.
He fought all the time. He never left
himself open; he looked on the world
through the cover of his smother; but of
the static qualities he was destitute. Cheer-
fully he would have gone back to his old
job on the Keira Main, but he knew that
work is not for the athlete —that it tends
to bind the muscles, to reduce the activity
which is his stock-in-trade.
Half his time he spent in the city, but
the position was nearly as bad there. There
was no longer the fierce joy he had found
formerly in combats with sparring partners.
With no immediate objective the skipping
rope and the medicine ball and the exten-
sion exercises and the fast walks grew to
be labors undertaken only through effort
of will.
It was at Stan’s studio that he found his
hours of delight. Stan had, with increased
earnings, taken in the whole floor. He had
a room to sleep in now, another for a
kitchen and a third occupied by Jimmy
Packington, who had come to batch with
him.
Patsy experienced a week of pure joy
assisting them to remodel and decorate the
place. Such work costs an artist only a few
shillings, and Patsy marvelled over the
wonders which could be wrought from
hessian and kalsomine when the directing
brain was an artistic one.
Patsy did the rough work. He handled
the kalsomine brush and the paste bucket,
leaving Stan to put in the stencilling and
he half-tones. Still he felt some of the
pride of the artist himself when he looked
over the completed task and realised that
he, too, had had a hand in its success.
■More hessian a.nd a few shillings’ worth
of dyes served to refurnish the premises,
and in three weeks Stan possessed a studio
to which he might have invited the Gover-
nor-General without feeling of shame.
“A transformation scene,” commented De
Vernay. “Only the approaches are open
to criticism. I don’t mind the back street
so much, but the proximity of your neigh-
bors causes me to shudder. Still, some of
the most beautiful palaces of Italy have a
crowd of slum cottages about the lodge
gates. If you would only make those agents
down below as picturesque as their fellow
brigands in Italy, the harmony would be
complete.”
Phyllis burst into the studio the day Stan
started to dismantle it and found herself
in a mass of dust and art.
Stan was alone at the moment. “Keep
away, Phyllis, for the next fortnight,” he
called from behind a mask of dirt. “This
place won’t be fit to receive ladies till
then.”
“And it’s about time, Stan,” she replied.
“But can’t I lend a hand? Give me an
old suit of pyjamas and I’ll take my turn
with the whitewash brush. ‘Slap dash,
slap dash, round about the corners,’ ” she
sang.
“Too late,” replied Stan. “Thanks for
the offer, but I’ve got a couple of assistants
already.”
There was nothing to be served by stand-
ing in the yard-square which shone like an
island in an ocean of disorder. Phyllis left
and did not return until the fortnight had
expired. She flung open the door and
paused.
“Oh, this is fine! It’s grand, really it
is, Stan,” she cried.
“Don’t give me all the credit. A great
part is due to the eminent artist Mr.
Patrick Quirk, who’s deserted his favorite
colors. He’s no longer a black and blue
artist, but an artist in browns and madders.”
For the first time she noticed that Patsy
was present, working with a hammer and
tacks on the upturned armchair now just
entering upon a newer and better life. A
brief hour back it had been disreputable
and outcast and vulgar, a chair from the
’Loo, a very Buff Cody among chairs. Now
Patsy had snatched it from Perdition, in
the shape of the garbage tip. It had found
grace and respectability. It was about to
enter upon a better and purer life, living
down its shameful past by repentence, and
brought into the fold of righteousness by
a material closely resembling the sackcloth
which was the visible symbol of sanctity in
years gone by.
“Good afternoon. I congratulate you,
Mr. Quirk!” Her tone was commonplace,
but not hostile. Patsy noted with delight
that there was even a smile on her lips as
she spoke.
“Thank you, Miss Deane,” he replied.
“I’m glad you like it, but I only did the
groundwork; I don’t rise to decorations.”
“Only on your opponents, Patsy,” laughed
Stan.
Patsy didn’t reply. It was dirt for Stan
to rub in his profession in the presence of
Phyllis, knowing how seriously she regarded
it. If she had forgotten, let her not be
reminded.
Then Stan did another thing which both
Patsy and Phyllis regarded as the acme
of tactlessness.
“Well, Phyllis,” he said, “I’ve got to go
out and get something for tea. You give
Patsy a few hints on how to make furniture
look lovely while I’m away.”
Before either of them could protest, Stan
had rushed through the door and was
clattering down the stairs. Both Phyllis
and Patsy felt rather embarrassed. Then
the philosophy of Buff Cody flashed across
his mind: “Always make it a fight.” He
pulled himself together just as he had when
he stepped from his corner for his first
professional fight with Loubet, conquering
stage fright by a sheer effort of will.
“Time!” he called after the manner of an
announcer. “Phyllis Deane, butterfly-
weight champion of Australia, and Patsy
Quirk. Last round of the great fight.”
Phyllis looked hard at him. There was
a suspicion of a frown on her brow, a sus-
picion of a smile on her lips.
“You’re speaking in a language foreign
to me, Mr. Quirk,” she replied.
“Well, to put it in plain English,” grinned
Patsy, “I’ll say that Quirk quits, skies the
towel, takes the count.”
“That English is not too plain for me,
Mr. Quirk, but please don’t color it. I’m
rather afraid of the language of the ring.”
“Well, to put it in a way you can under-
stand, I throw up my hands, I ask for
mercy. Don’t you think you could treat
me as a first offender, release me on license
or something during good behavior?”
“There’s been too much license about you
already, Mr. Quirk.”
“Well, make it a free pardon, find me not
guilty and discharge me with a caution.”
“But you’re not not guilty! You’re as
guilty as can be—shamefully, horridly,
brutally guilty. If I did right I wouldn’t
be speaking to you here now. It’s perfectly
disgraceful of Stan to have left us here.”
“That’s right. I never heard of such a
rotten thing. He ought to be thoroughly
ashamed of himself. I don’t know that
I’ve ever”
“Now, don’t you try to turn it off like
that, Mr. Quirk. You’re trying to get me
to discuss Stan’s horrid action, so as to
draw me into a conversation.”
“Correct,” grinned Patsy. “But give us
a chance to show what I’ve learned of ring
tactics.”
“You almost deserve to be forgiven for
your audacity. You weren’t cheeky before.
What’s made the alteration?”
“Necessity,” replied Patsy, placidly.
“When you’re up against somebody with
a smother like an .eiderdown quilt, you’ve
got to try all sorts of strange tricks to get
under her guard.”'
She looked him steadily in the eyes. He
held his smile like a perfect model. For
three seconds her decision was in the bal-
ance. Then her smile developed into ful-
ness. Had there been a referee there he
would have placed a paternal hand on
Patsy’s head and announced “Quirk the
winner.”
“You’re a cheeky wretch of a boy,” she
answered. “But there’s nothing vicious or
repulsive about you—except your boxing
and your ignorance,” she added, as she re-
called the cause of their estrangement.
He grew serious. “I know I’m ignorant
of—of a whole lot of things; but don’t
blame a fellow because he doesn’t know.
I know now. You will forgive me, won’t
you, Miss Deane?”
He seemed so earnest that she held out
her hand. “Of course I will,” she assented.
“But don’t you ever say or suggest things
like you did again.”
“I can promise you that easily,” he re-
plied. “You see, I’d got into something
entirely new to me. It’s like fighting a
southpaw—a man who puts out his right
hand. But, I beg your pardon, I forgot
you don’t know anything about the ring.”
She sat up quickly, “Perhaps, I know a
little more now than you think. I’ve been
studying the subject. I know all about
Rodney Stone and Cashel Byron now.”
Patsy knitted his brows. “They must
be new men,” he mused.
“Silly,” she laughed. “They’re not men
at all; they’re characters in books—boxers.
Haven’t you read Conan Doyle or Shaw?”
Patsy shook his head. Again he felt
himself an ignoramus in outer darkness.
“Oh, you must read them. Boy Jim was
a prize-fighter, but such a dear, and so was
Cashel Byron. I don’t care so much for
him personally, but he was a fine, straight
fellow all the same. Then I found out that
Adah Mencken 1 married a boxer named
Heenan.”
“I know Heenan—that is, I’ve heard of
him,” announced Patsy, proudly. “He beat
the champion of England years ago. There
was a picture of the fight down in one of
the bars at Illawarra.”
“That’s the man,” she went on enthusias-
tically. “Adah Mencken married him, and,
according to all accounts, they lived happy
ever after. Fancy, Adah Mencken!”
“Who?” asked Patsy, warily.
“Adah Mencken, you know. She was
the most beautiful woman of the day—a
circus rider, and she wrote Tnfelicia.’ It
was Adah Mencken who inspired Swinburne
to all his best things.”
“Who did he fight?” inquired Patsy, eager
to obtain information from this overlooked
page of pugilistic history.
“He didn’t fight anybody. He was a
poet. You remember Swinburne—Algernon
Charles Swinburne. He was mad in love
with her, and gave her his Dolores to in-
clude in Tnfelicia.’ Some people say he
really wrote a whole lot of it. And Dumas
was in love with her, too; and Charles
Dickens, they say. She dedicated her book
to him,” Phyllis laughed. “Fancy being
in love with Queen Victoria at one time
and Adah Mencken at another. What a
gamut of love Dickens must have run.”
“Was that Charles Dickens?” asked Patsy,
timorously.
“Yes, Charles Dickens,” she replied.
Patsy breathed freely at last. Here he
was on safe ground. He had read rather
deeply of Dickens and dashed in to show
Phyllis that he was not wholly the un-
lettered lout he appeared to himself. They
talked Dickens for some minutes. They
laughed over Toots and Cap’n Cuttle, and
were still so absorbed that they did not
hear Stan’s footsteps on the stairs. He
was standing before them smiling before
they realised it.
“So you two silly asses have made it
up,” he growled. “I’d have made you long
ago if I’d been able. But I can’t smack
you, Phyllis, because you’re a woman, and
I can’t smack Patsy because he might smack
me. But it’s just as well. I can make use
of you both to wash up the tea things.”
The tea was a huge success. Both Patsy
and Phyllis had been seriously worried over
the trouble that had occurred between
them. Now honor was satisfied. They
were friends again and secretly blessed Stan
for having thrown them together.
“By the way,” Patsy asked as he left,
“would you mind telling me the names of
those books? I’d like to read them.”
“ ‘Rodney Stone,’ by Conan Doyle;
‘Cashel Byron’s Profession,’ by Bernard
Shaw-—she dictated as he wrote. “And
Swinburne’s Poems—there are dozens of
volumes.”
•'-but there was another,” added Patsy.
“Oh, ‘lnfelicia,’ by Adah Mencken. But
you’ll never be able to get that. It’s been
out of print for years. There are only
secondhand copies, and I’ve never been able
to afford one or I’d lend it to you.”
Patsy thanked Phyllis, won a smile from
her and a handshake as he left, and next
morning did a round of the bookshops. At
the third he contrived to secure a fairly
clean copy of ‘lnfelicia’ for ten shillings.
Before Patsy packed it up to post to
Phyllis, Buff Cody glanced through its
pages.
“Blime,” he commented, glancing up with
an amazed look, “what do they call this?
It ain’t poytry an’ it ain’t straight talk.
It’s a sorter cross like ’s if yer’d mixed up
fightin’ an’ cricket an’ football all together
an’ played th’ game with a referee ’oo
didn’t know th’ rules.”
Chapter XXIII.
“Not one penny,” replied Phyllis firmly,
but with perfect good humor. “I prefer to
retain my amateur status. I’d have no
objection to earning my living as a pro-
fessional model if I had to; but while the
boom in hats and hayrakes keeps up, I’ll
hang on.”
“But, Phyllis, you were the actual in-
spiration for Titania; I couldn’t have turned
it out without you. It was Titania that put
me on the map, and now that I’m in a
different position you’re fairly entitled to
a commission.”
“Nothing doing with this child,” persisted
Phyllis. “And if you ever dare suggest
placing our friendship on a financial basis
again I’ll never sit for you any more.”
“Um, that settles it,” replied Stan. “For
I do want you again. I’ve got an idea for
a big oil this time and I want you.”
“Then drop these offensive references to
the root of all evil,” ordered Phyllis.
What Stan said was true. It was Titania
which had attracted public attention to his
work; it made people gather to view “In
the Corner” with interest. It had led “The
Bunyip,” chief of the high-class illustrated
weeklies, to buy the rights of reproduction,
and to De Vernay’s paying a fairly big
price for the original, which now occupied
pride of place in his office at the Stadium.
Even such a punctilious critic of the arts
as Buff Cody was so tickled by the portraits
of himself and Joe Tolani that he was now
willing to swallow Stan whole as an artist,
and went singing his praises around the
training camps and the ’Loo and other
places where art is generally . a mysterious
and fearsome affair.
“The Bunyip” had been so pleased that
it had given Stan an order for a dozen more
genre drawings of Sydney life and had been
so pleased with these that it had offered
him a position on the staff at a salary
which seemed to Stan to place him among
the millionaires. He ,had now a fixed
income—so large that he would have to
make out an income-tax schedule every
year; while at the same time he would have
sufficient spare time to pursue art for art’s
sake.
Stan wished Phyllis to share in the pros-
perity in which she had undoubtedly had
a part in the making. He had embarrass-
ingly offered her a cut, and she had refused.
He could not thrust on her some expensive
present; it would be liable to misconstruc-
tion. So would any consistent effort to
take her out and give her a good time.
Stan had reasons for not wanting his friend-
ship with Phyllis misconstrued now, apart
altoge'ther from feelings of delicacy regard-
ing her reputation. He and Phyllis had
merely been close pals from the time they
met; but of late there had come into Stan’s
life another girl towards whom he felt
very differently. He had the selfish fear
that any frequent association with Phyllis
might dispel the dreams he was beginning
to conjure up in secret, dreams which were
beginning to make his solitudes blaze with
the glorious colorings of summer sunsets.
“Look here, Phyllis,” he said at a later
date, when a way out had suggested itself.
“I’ve been a selfish swine towards you.
I’ve been thinking of myself all the time
and never given your work a thought.”
“My work?” she echoed with a laugh.
“Speli it with a capital W—hayrake and hat
masterpieces.”
“But I saw your sketches at the school.
Bring your sketchbooks in some day and
see if we can’t evolve some scheme for start-
ling the world.”
“I wish you luck,” she replied. “I’m one
of the unfortunates who happen to know
their limitations.”
All the same, she came a day or two later
with a huge bundle of sketch-books. Stan
ran through them. He was plainly dis-
appointed. The girl’s work was only aver-
age life-school work. There was no dis-
tinction about her drawing; her sense of
form was mediocre. It was draughtsman-
ship rather than art. She knew what was
wanted, but she couldn’t catch it.
He told her so. “I know,” she admitted.
“My hand refuses to follow my mind. I
know perfectly well I shouldn’t have drawn
that figure that way, but for some ungodly
reason that’s the only way I can draw it.”
“You think you draw badly?”
“I know it.”
( Continued, on next page.)


m
: g
o
o
m
c
TO
to
TO
TO
33
clocl^
o
rcc:
TRADE
MARK
PATENT NOS
272629-272763
FIVE
How they are rushing to
try these new Seven
o’clock blades! And how
they are praising them! So
keen that they seem only
to glide over the face—so
smooth that they seem to
caress the skin. Never was
so much comfort packed
into a safety razor blade.
And the price —five of
these blades for a shilling
andsixpence! Get a
packet of Seven o’clock
blades for your double-
edged razor to-day. Every
dealer sells them.
double edged
MADE IN ENGLAND
Mr Cant
£
%
f
/L
&
I
/
Mr Can’t is quite a nice man
in his way. But oh, so fussy
about himself, so afraid of
catching cold, and so depress-
ed about business. ‘lf only
you had my troubles,’ he of-
ten says. A great many weary
people have got his troubles —
though not quite the ones
he means. For a great many
people are ill and poisoned
because they don’t keep
clean inside!
Mr Can
\
r
As for Mr Can — it’s a won-
der he doesn’t tire himself out
sometimes. The way he drives
that car. The way he romps
with the children. And how
he works! The whole point
is that Mr Can keeps himself
as clean inside as out. Doesn’t
let waste matter stay long
enough to poison him and
make him yawny and wretch-
ed. Mr Can takes Eno every
morning. Mr Can knows /
Eno’s 'Fruit Salt ’ turns Can’t into Can ! Heaviness
into freshness! Sleeplessness into dreamless rest!
Half-health —into all-year-round fitness! Just to drink
Eno is to know you’ll feel better for it the taste is so
clean and fresh and pleasant. Eno does for the inner
man what soap and water does for the outer. And
who can deny that this inner cleansing is not more
vital ? Qet some Eno today !
Au.2o
1
c&he words Sno and rr< Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales c %gents: c ?she {British ( tf. {Ritchie Go. {£td. Sydney, SN'.S. C W.
“Then we’ll take that as a basis to work
from. You think well, but you draw
badly. Why not put your good thoughts
into bad drawings and stand on that?”
She gaz'ed at him with a smile. “And
you call yourself an artist! You’re flying
in the face of all the Masters; you’re de-
filing the robes of artistic prophets; you’re
heterodox and contumacious and contu-
melious and blarsfeemious! Don’t you re-
member what they used to tell us—‘Draw
for seven years and you’ll paint in seven
weeks’?”
“I know all the copy-book maxims. I
suppose I’m violating the conventions, but
it seems to me that, when you’ve got an
asset, why make it stay at home because
a number of people who’ve been a long
time dead don’t happen to approve of it?”
Phyllis spent an hour a day at Stan’s
studio, getting hints, accepting advice and
learning to be herself on paper as she was
in life. She had turned out half k dozen
drawings in which she had endeavored to
express what she wished, but which, accord-
ing to her own judgment, she had ruined by
bad drawing.
“Rotten,” she commented. “Just fancy
what you’d honestly think of yourself if
you’d done those. They’re a chamber of
horrors. And I did think I was going to
do something when I started. I tried so
hard, Stan.” She was almost tearful.
“You know too much about good draw-
ing,” observed Stan.
“Except the execution of it.”
“Well, here comes somebody who doesn’t
know much about it,” he went on as he
heard Patsy’s step on the stairs. “Patsy
represents the great public of Australia—
and the great public of any place, as far
as that goes. Just throw those drawings
along the table with the others of the
hayrakes you’re so proud of. And say no-
thing.”
“What-ho, Phyllis; what-ho, Stan!” called
Patsy breezily as he came through the
curtains. “What’s doing?”
“Phyllis has been doing drawings,” re-
plied Stan. “Brought me some of her latest
to show me. There they are.”
Patsjr walked over to the table, glanced
at the conventional advertising designs,
which he had seen a thousand times, done
just the same way by Phyllis and her
rivals. Then he picked up one of those
done in her new, or, rather, her very oldest
manner. He spent a full minute looking
at. it. He lifted another; again he scrutin-
ised it, until he had taken in all the details.
He went through the whole dozen in that
way.
“What did I tell you?” demanded Stan
of Phyllis. “The sweetest of all sentences:
‘I told you so.’ ”
“What on earth are you talking about?”
demanded Patsy.
“A matter of the greatest importance,
lou, Patsy, have just been the principal
actor in a great historic scene. You have
been filling the position of a king, a prime
minister, a dictator. You have for the first
time in your life been representing the
public, and you have filled the position of
referee in a test of the pulling power of
artistic advertising.”
“Come again,” said Patsy. “What’s the
game?”
“We’ve been watching you to see which
of those drawings you’d show most interest
in. I picked them. ‘Carlisle the winner’
this time. Your apologies, Phyllis.”
“I only hope you’re right,” replied the
girl. “But I haven’t much faith in them
myself,” she added sadly.
“The .reason I looked at them was that
they were so different from other adver-
tisements—that lawn-mower one and the
girl with the stockings especially. I admit
I never took much interest in those other
pictures of clothes and hats and boots and
lawn-mowers.”
“There you are,” cried. Stan, triumphantly.
“The virtue of novelty—greatest of all
factors in scientific advertising. It’s the
imagination behind the drawing that counts
more than the mere laying on of lines. It’s
the imagination of the artist that catches
the imagination of the buyer.”
“I’ll give them a spin,” said Phyllis, with
the air of one prepared for a great dis-
appointment. ;
Chapter XXIV.
Somebody was heard rushing up the
stairs. Without knocking, the intruder
threw open the door, tore the curtains aside
and paused. It was Phyllis, flushed, excited
and elated.
“Oh, you dears!” she cried. Then she
rushed at Stan, flung her arms about his
neck and kissed him.
She turned to Patsy. “You, too; you
had a hand in it!” and skipping across to
Patsy, kissed him, too. Patsy was not
taken by surprise. He returned that kiss
with enthusiasm.
“Nice friendly spirit,” observed Stan. “But
why this magnificent display of amorosity?”
“You deserve those kisses, both of you,”
she began, taking a seat and strewing her
belongings around the table. “It’s come
off. Twelve drawings at a fiver a time—
sixty pounds! I never knew there was so
much money in the world. Where do the
ad. men get all the money from that they
give to us artists?”
“Then you pulled it off?” inquired Stan.
“Pulled it off! No; they just took it up
and handed it to me on a silver salver. I
couldn’t have believed it. And it’s all due
to you, Stan, for putting me on the right
track. And to you, Patsy, for revealing the
great heart of the public to me for the first
time.”
Patsy felt a little thrill. The kiss was
only part of her excitement and her grati-
tude, but Patsy showed that, despite .the
fact that she had always called him Mr.
Quirk to his face, she thought of him as
Patsy. He was fully forgiven now. There
were no mental reservations, no qualifying
misgivings. He was Patsy.
Starting in the middle, working up to
the end and finishing with the beginning,
Phyllis gave them the story of her success.
The old firms had been interested, more or
less, in the conventional stuff she had sub-
mitted, but they pushed aside the draw-
ings that had made Patsy look. Three offices
had done this and she had felt despondent,
when she determined to chance another
rebuff by visiting a new bunch of adver-
tising men—the Sydney branch of the Toms
Advertising Agency Inc., of New York,
Chicago, Los Angeles and Kansas City, in
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh-street.
Timorously she had fought her way to
the glass-topped table of Wilbur P. Copp,
branch-manager, and was a trifle surprised
to find a quiet, almost silent, middle-aged
gentleman. He did not wear an outsize
suit, bunionated shoes, horn-rimmed spec-
tacles nor a cigar in the corner of his mouth.
He seemed most un-American according to
her embryonic notions of one-hundred-per-
cent. Americanism. There was even a sug-
gestion of De Vernay about his appearance.
He rose when she entered, beckoned her to a
chair and said: “You’ll excuse me, Miss
Deane, if I come to business quickly and
appear to hurry you away; but I’ve mighty
little time to spare this morning. What
is it?”
She spread her drawings out before him.
He classified them almost as speedily as if
he had been dealing cards—classified them
just as the others had done, the conven-
tional ads. on the one side, the bizarre con-
ceptions she had worked out under Stan’s
advice on the other.
“Sorry we can’t do anything with those,”
he remarked, to her surprise, indicating the
ads. which had displeased his predecessors
the less. Then he picked up her latest pro-
ductions. “But you’ve got something here
that seems promising.”
Her heart leapt with excitement. “You’ve
struck a new line, Miss Deane. And a new
line’s always an asset in the ad. business.
It may not catch on—many new lines don’t
—but if it does it’s a winner. I’m willing
to take a chance on these designs of yours.
I don’t know whether I can place them or
not, but I’ll gamble. We’ll take these”—
he counted them—“twelve aren’t there? —
and give you five pounds each, if you’re
agreeable.”
Five twelves are sixty. Phyllis never did
any arithmetical calculation which gave her
greater pleasure. She felt inclined to kiss
Wilbur P. Copp. It took her all her time
holding back her enthusiasm from his notice.
“Thank you,” she said quietly, feeling
shockingly discourteous in murmuring
formal thanks for what she regarded as
Midasian munificence.
“Of course,” he added, “there’s always a
chance they’ll flop. But I rather fancy them
myself, and if you’ll look in later —say a
couple of weeks—we’ll let you know how
we’ve got on. You can collect your cheque
from this office on Friday.”
That was the interview as Phyllis related
it, with a wealth of detail, to Stan and
Patsy. What she did not know was that
the moment she left Coop’s office he pressed
the button and sent for George Gaffney,
another expatriated Angeleno, who was the
second in command, leaving a representative
of Sydney Big Business waiting in the
reception room.
“Here, George,” he observed. “Have a
look at these.”
Gaffney picked up the drawings one by
one and scrutinised them carefully.
“Gee!” he cried. “Something new at
last! ”
“Something good, too, in my opinion!”
“You’re a great describer. I don’t want
to knock a country I’m living in, but
what have these people here been doing to
let this fellow”
“It’s a girl.”
“Well, letting her go round loose?”
“And she’s been drawing bunk stuff for
three or four years, from what she tells
me. They won’t look at anything else.
I don’t know whether we can unload these
here, anyhow.”
“’Way back home they’d be a wow!”
hazarded Gaffney.
“Sure thing,” murmured Copp. “That
was my idea. We’ll have pulls taken of
these and send them home to the Old Man
in Sixth. I got the lot for three hundred
dollars. She’d have taken a third; but I
wanted to fix her good.”
{To be continued next week.)


TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
that morning' headache
Now I sticK to DicKens”
Ihe genuine Old Scotch.
Bottled in Bond.
stckens
Scotcl) Whislui
<?CgviaAs6-o-ii. “V cS&ttioxr&xL . Sfy'-cLnxsy. . 'tfo-Cz. .
h
AUSTERITY OF THE AGES IN
GLITTERING
CRYSTAL . . .
The fame of Stuart Crystal has
been passed down through the
ages, gaining all through the
years fresh glory and power. From
generation to generation, father
teaching son, the tradition has
been carried on/ every craftsman
etching the name Stuart on every
piece. Wherever beautiful glass is
sold an exquisite example of this
beautiful crystal may be purchased
for no more than a few shillings.
JJ*
r-jt
A-A
m
■
i
*&&
H
«
m
“S»&
*W»c.
a
ils
v
>v
✓r*.
W&
Pl*:Se, ,
Be sure to look for the registered name "Stuart” on every piece you buy.
Snow.
BY WILLIAM HATFIELD.
NO, you’d hardly know the Doctor, of
course, never being about the Cross.
Not that he doesn t go into the city
at all but you’d be in the office long before
he went down, and before you began to get
off the evening mail Doc would have taken
a tram home. , , ~
You’d know by the way he holds a cane
and looks at you through gold rims tjiat he
is a professional man; and youd know
before he’d said more than two words that
a desk in some old-world college has his
initials carved on it. An extreme punctilio
becomes marked after about the first dozen;
then, if supplies last, you may see the gradual
change to something between the under-
grad’s commem. day hilarity and just plain
rough-house. At this stage his solicitude for
the comfort of Strange women in trams or
elsewhere is likely to set them looking for a
policeman.
But I’m running on as if you knew all
about him, as-if you knew the flat-land of
Queen’s Cross, in Sydney, instead of belong-
ing where everybody has a front gate, and
where you know that a report out on the
road at midnight is simply a car’s backfire.
Nearly fifty, better than middle height, slight
scholastic stoop, but not a grey hair, and of
a tense vitality that short-sighted eyes can-
not belie. Male, every ounce of him. Gold
medallist (I forget what year or just where)
in gynaecology and —but perhaps you begin to
follow.
And you’re right. No knight of old so
valiantly attacked the dragon which held a
lady fair as Doc does the dragon which
besets the path of the modern maid. Skilful?
The word is an insult; but the constant
worry, a spot between whiles to forget it,
then the dope to snap out of the muddle of
drink at an urgent call, the needle for a
quiet rest afterwards, and you have the
whole tale.
He took to me from the first, and,
humanity being my working material just
as his, there was common ground for an
acquaintance that grew. I don’t spot a
great deal myself, but all those I know do,
so I keep some handy always in the flat;
and if the Cross is suffering from a wave of
virtue and liquor can’t be had after hours for
a week or so, Doc always knows where the
drought can be broken.
“Ever been to a real Darlinghurst party?”
he said to me one night.
I smiled. If some of the parties I’ve been
at weren’t real! But he smiled in turn.
“But this is the real thing,” he said. “A
real ‘coke’-fiends’ turnout. You’d get some
copy. Are you on?”
Well, of course, if you set vourself up as
a man of the world and only know “snow”
parties from what you read in the Sunday
papers
So I went. Expensive-looking flat in one
of the best parts: and the crowd! Now, you
know I’m not given to exaggeration, and I’ve
seen beautiful women in my time, but those
girls ! Dress, manners, speech—everything
perfect. You were introduced as decorously
as at a levee, and there was nothing beyond
whisky and cocktails in evidence. A girl
(I’d like to give you an impression of her,
but you’d say I got it out of a sex novel)
with black hair and black eyes played and
sang, I forget what, because just as I began
to catch the air she caught my eye. Before
that she had been singing to the room, to
the smoke curling to the ceiling, or to her-
self. Now she sang to me. Why, Heaven
knows. You know what sort of figure I
cut alongside the average sheik; nothing to
recommend me but, possibly, my size
Clothes always looking like somebody else’s
on me. Still, there it was, the loveliest
creature in that assembly of Sydney’s most
alluring women telling me in the words of
the song, and pointing them with convincing
gesture, that I was the only man on earth
for her.
Don’t look so tolerant. Think it was only
acting, do you T You don’t know these people.
No acting about it. From that moment I
was hers—till she dropped me, to-morrow,
next week, never. You family men make me
tired, with your smiles and shrugs. No, I
hadn't touched a single sniff; never have.
But I found myself feeling glad she meant
it, though all the time I knew I had bought
a bigger heap of trouble than you’d get with
a bag of wildcats. Cracked? Well, I’m
not arguing with you, I’m simply telling
you how it came about.
“Why do they call him Doc?” she said to
me. among other things. “He’s not a doctor
really, is he?”
I assured her he was, and she went over
and spoke to the blonde girl sitting near
him, introduced them, and then I saw Doc
take out his little notebook and gold pencil.
Th.e blonde girl left her partner cold, and
talked to Doc as to an old friend.
I was wondering which of the over-dressed
men would come over and tell me where I
got off, but we danced and danced, and. no-
thing happened. No, that’s not quite right.
The blonde girl with Doc threw off her even-
ing dress and did a snake dance in a costume
that it would puzzle Ernest Rolls to reduce,
and a lad with a sleek brush-back did a
stepdance on the baby grand. A chap whose
left ear looked as if it had been to a tannery
pushed him off and stayed in the corner.
Beryl, my dark charmer, offered me a
sniff, smiled superiorly when I declined, and
daintily helped herself. I hadn’t altogether
neglected the whisky, and managed to some-
how keep pace with her.
Perhaps that was really a sound-proof
building, as you see advertised • anyway. I
never heard a sound from any of the other
flats. Doc wasn’t touching a thing stronger
than whisky either, but he must have been
off-color, because he went to sleep on the
blonde girl’s lap about two. I began to
notice the smoke, and the piano didn’t seem
to keep any too good time. The flat seemed
to have lots of rooms, and people turned off
between the drawing-room and the kitchen
where the hors d'oeuvres were laid out. We
were coming back from the kitchen, Beryl
and I, and she stopped and clutched my
arm as we entered the drawing-room, and
a tall chap I hadn’t noticed before raised
bis dark eyebrows in cynical surprise.
Beryl’s eyes shone as she looked up at
me. I told you she was beautiful? You’ve
never seen anyone’s eyes when they’re full
of “coke” have you? Well, it’s useless say-
ing what they’re like, because they’re like
nothing else. “If his hand goes near his
hip hit him first —and hard!” she whispered
to me, and let go my arm. Yet you’d swear
a mouse would chair her any time.
The man walked over to me with a ges-
ture of contemptuous dismissal and made to
take Beryl’s arm. No affair of mine, my
better sense told me, but she looked at me
again. The masterful person’s hand shot
to his hip. I was a bit slow —must have
been—for I saw the red downward flash,
heard the report and felt someone stamp
on my foot before I got home on his chin.
Even then I muffed it, because he only
went down to a sitting posture, and got *1
two more shots before I kicked the gun
out of his hand. I seemed to slip, and my
face came close to his, though I wasn’t
looking at him at all, but at the little auto-
matic sailing across the room towards the
window. It seemed to crawl through the
cigarette smoke like something suspended on
a wire, lean against the glass and push a
black star in it, hesitate, glinting, then cease
to exist altogether.
I coughed (and apologised, I know) full
in the sitting gentleman’s face, and there
were red spots on his dress-shirt front.
Extraordinary taste some men had—red-
spotted dress shirts! Effeminate. I re-
member people leaving in a hurry, and Beryl
tugged at my arm, saying, “Fire escape!
This way!”
Perhaps the noise woke Doc. Anyway,
he had my other arm, and was saying in
his urbane bedside manner, “Don’t worry,
you’re quite all right, quite all right. Keep
your feet and your head.”
Keep my feet, indeed! Did he think I
couldn’t stand a couple of drinks? He and
Beryl clung to me most embarrassingly down
that fire escape, and when I coughed going
along the street to my flat a couple of blocks
away he dabbed at my mouth with a red
handkerchief.
“He hasn’t got his gun now,” I said; “I
saw it go through the window. Let me go
back and I’ll show the polished rat he can’t
get away with that sort of thing.”
“All right,” said Doc. “A little later on.
But I think you showed him.”
And then one day Beryl said to me, “How
do you feel now, darling?” She looked so
innocent in a little house frock —quite a girl.
“What time is it?” I said, and went to
sit up in bed, but she motioned me back,
and I don’t think I could have got up any-
way. An iron girder or something had
fallen across my chest.
“He’s conscious, Doc,” Beryl called
through the open bedroom door, and in
walked the Doctor, adjusting his glasses and
smiling as if he had just vacated a tram
seat. “It was only a twenty-two,” he said,
“and too high to do §.ny harm, anyway.
Your foot, is rather worse, but even that will
be all right by the time you want to use it.”
I began to think I must have been per-
suaded to take some “snow,” after all; my
brain was incapable of grasping what they
were talking about. Doc gave me a jab in
the upper arm, and I dozed off again. The
following day they gave me a newspaper to
read, and after wading through the head-
lines “Killer of Cocaine King Still at
Large,” and so on, I came to this: —
The police are making fullest inquiries into the
Darlinghurst shooting affray on Thursday night, and
feel confident that the murderer will be apprehended
shortly. He is known to have been badly wounded
from bloodstains leading down the fire escape, and
must call somewhere for medical attention. All
hospitals and doctors have been notified, and an
arrest is expected hourly.
I’m afraid 1 gaped stupidly at the pair of
them smiling down at me, for Doc said, by
way of explanation, “It went off when you
kicked it and took a section of his vertebrae
in passing.”
And to think I had in my hands a news-
paper scoop like that and couldn’t use a
line of it! Self-defence ? I know, I know,
haven’t I been writing police stuff for years?
You never knew I was married? Haven’t
I been telling you how Doc got her off the
“coke” and everything? Bring the wife out
and meet her sometime.
De Profundis.
Lord, grant that our lives hereafter
Be not the lasting echo
Of the long pain and ecstasy of this.
Grant that our wearied souls, in passing
over,
Find not again a Cross to lift and kiss:
All the mute pain and passion
That is born of too much loving
Of the dumb earth and lives entwined with
ours;
Of winds immutable that sing for ever;
Of helpless beasts, and dreams, and scents,
and flowers.
Lord, grant that our lives hei'eafter
Be not the lasting echo
Of the long pain and ecstasy of this.
Grant that our wearied souls, in passing
over.
Find tranquil sleep, untouched by grief or
bliss.
MAOKIEAND.
E. MARY GURNEY.
Araminta's Home.
It is set' among the roses red and white,
In sound of the eternal chant of rills;
It is circled by the sombre sweep of hills,
Like giant guards of beauty in their might,
Stern, rugged, armed with thunder, day and
night,
And lightning’s sword of flame that smites
and kills,
Guarding e’er my heart’s treasure on the
height,
From dusk until the world at daybreak
thrills;
But when the day walks gold where shadows
were.
And blue hills mass their might on burning
skies,
Their deep untroubled calm is in her eyes,
And all the splendid strength that conquers
strife
Uplifts her high o’er petty things of life,
Because God’s hills have shaped the soul of
her.
N.S.W.
N. A. EVANS.


the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
A
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Pitt St. and Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William St., Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME
ADDRESS
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
#
FIRST CLASS PQA
RETURN 3L&ZJ
CABIN CLASS n p 7f\
RETURN X/U
Usual fares £125/10/- and £B7 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER—
Via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by the
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada or
U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
Full particulars from
and Union Lines
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
A
I *.'!»>
ZBi
LUBRICANT
//V
THE TROPICS
■PARTICULARLY where sand
storms are common, ALEMITE
Lubricant is essential—it is next
to impossible to keep sand out of
bearings.
By the use of the Alemite Lubricating System fresh,
clean ALEMITE is forced into bearings under 500 to
5,000 pounds pressure . . . sand, grit and dirt are at
the same time forced out, leaving bearings thoroughly
clean and perfectly lubricated.
When making trips through sandy country be sure
and take with you the ALEMITE Gun and a supply of
genuine ALEMITE Lubricant. K-Aust. 10-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION * • Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full Particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.,Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie St., Adelaide
A Fool’s Tragedy.
BY HUGH McCRAE.
OLD Hamilton knew his wife loved
Feldenheimer; and old Hamilton
never cared. Feldenheimer. with his
handsome face, his silences and his fashion-
able clothes, had long ago become a joke to
him. _ Hamilton kept Feldenheimer, for a
fool, in his house—fed him and bedded him.
Because his own cold nature prevented him
from experiencing jealousy, he junketed him-
self on tricks of malice played off upon
these ultra-romantic people. He liked to see
his wife, after she had been disturbed, sit
at a distance from Feldenheimer; while it
was equally good sport to make Felden-
heimer talk, for hours, on every subject
under the sun. Feldenheimer knew nothing;
every word he uttered had to be picked out
by queries and contradictions; yet he had
enough understanding to realise that his
thoughts were valueless ; and, in consequence,
the ignominy he suffered was acute, and
humiliating. Without doubt, Feldenheimer
was an ass.
Sometimes, when the victim went away
for week-ends, Hamilton missed him almost
as much as Mrs. Hamilton did; for the desire
to bait, to hamstring, to strum upon a raw
nerve, had grown to be an obsession with
him.
Once, when Mrs. Hamilton had acted too
boldly, her husband withdrew from the scene,
as if nothing had happened; indeed, he
was nicer to her, and to Feldenheimer, than
lie had been for a long time. Actually, he
left them together all day; and, in the
evening, called them to dinner. But, sit-
ting at table, both Feldenheimer and
Mrs. Hamilton noticed a white powder on
the meat they were eating. The powder
tasted bitter. When they mentioned the
fact to Hamilton, he appeared confused,
although he advised them to get on with the
meal. Mrs. Hamilton couldn’t continue;
while Feldenheimer went out and became
sick in the garden. Mrs. Hamilton pro-
cured—secretly—an analysis of the powder,
and felt chagrined to hear it was nothing
more dangerous than crystallised alum. She
told Feldenheimer it was a joke of her hus-
band’s ; and Feldenheimer abandoned his
intention of breaking up the trio. In the
meantime Hamilton laughed, or smacked his
hands together, while he rejoiced over the
success of his hoax.
The Hamiltons lived in the country, three
miles distant from the township of Reed;
and right on to the main street of Reed there
abutted an old-fashioned hotel, with horse-
steps and horse-posts outside; a cosy parlor,
with bar attached, inside ; and lots of rooms
straggling round a three-walled square at the
rear.
To this recognised house of entertainment,
when he had business to do with his doctor
or lawyer, Hamilton came; and so it hap-
pened, one April morning, his odds and ends
of work all over, that he walked into the
back bar—not the big public one—and over
heard Feldenheimer and Catharine Hamil-
ton conversing in the parlor under the stairs.
He smiled while he listened to their plans,
then cut across paddocks half an hour be-
fore the time they fixed for their return.
Reapproaching the highway he stepped be-
hind a hedge to watch Catharine drive Fel-
denheimer past the place where he lay
hidden. It was a little car, so little that
the dog they had with them had to ride on
the hood behind. Again he smiled to see
them whirling in front of him, up and down,
in and out, and round and round the curliest
road perhaps that ever existed. There was
no jealousy in him; and the sight of his
wife and her lover filled him with special
joy, which added zest to the scent of sweet-
briar, and to the effect of butterflies rising
and falling over tall grass, as far as it was
possible to see.
Through perspective, the little car grew
littler; and soon the dog jumped off the
hood and tore along the paddocks, keeping
always ahead. At last the absorbed couple
came to a pair of gates that barred the
entrance to the homestead, and the figure
of Feldenheimer could be seen hanging on
to a pulley-hauley thing which opened the
way without necessitating anyone to get out.
Immediately after that the car disappeared.
Hamilton followed through the gate, up
a hill and down a hill, until he came to the
garden with its central lawn, and then the
house itself, having geraniums in flower at
the foot of the steps. He ascended so calmly
that he stopped midway to admire the sun
which was going down, and noticed how it
grew bigger the nearer it approached the
earth. Inside, the house was dark and cool
except towards the end of the passage, where
light penetrated an ivy-shaded window, mak-
ing green and gold illumination, softer than
pollen afloat on the air.
Hamilton continued to traverse the pass-
age until he came to a room 0 n the left,
which he entered; but immediately came out
again, having a revolver clasped in one hand.
He smiled as he pulled back the hammer,
and thought how he’d frighten this fool, and
this worse than a fool of a wife. He had
no intention of killing either —because, for
one thing, he didn’t love Catharine, and, for
another, Feldenheimer was too much of an
entertainment in himself to be dismissed so
early in the game. He would give them a
good scare, and afterwards lull them off to
a feeling of security until the next joke was
ready to be played.
When Hamilton walked into his wife’s
room she said nothing. She sat still.
Feldenheimer ran to shelter himself be-
hind Catharine’s body, but Hamilton drew
Catharine in towards him, and covered Fel-
denheimer where he stood.
“You’re going to get it this time,” said
Hamilton.
“No ! No !” gasped Feldenheimer.
“This time,” repeated the husband.
“Then let me do it myself! Why should
you swing for me?”
Hamilton was nonplussed for the moment.
Then he laughed—jarringly—like a door-
knocker being hammered by a man in a rage.
“Get into the passage!” he exclaimed.
“And don’t be afraid about making a mess.”
Feldenheimer took the revolver and started
to cruise down the passage.
Hamilton stood with his hands in his
pockets, assured that nothing was going to
happen. Feldenheimer wouldn’t 5h00t....
Feldenheimer would cry.... Hamilton pro-
mised himself all sorts of titiilations. He
pictured the stupid ass wondering what he
should do. There was no window for
escape; and to reach the house door he would
have to turn back and pass in front of
Catharine’s room.
Hamilton counted a hundred; then dis-
appeared down the passage to enjoy the fun.
At that moment the revolver went off.
Catharine opened her eyes widely but re-
mained perfectly still. Then it was true,
after all! Feldenheimer lay dead, by his
own hand. The worst joke Hamilton had
played! What was to become of her ?
In the middle of these thoughts, pushing
and colliding, Feldenheimer returned into
the room.
“I’m not his fool any longer,” he said.
“Hamilton can’t bully me again!”
October Winds.
The wind sounds angry in the house;
It rips and roars round the plaintive
eaves;
It rocks the crests of the flooded gums
And scatters the parchment gold of leaves;
Yet very gently the palm-trees sway,
As though they guessed it was only play.
The wind sounds angry in the house;
Through each tiny crack it thrusts its
way—
Would it quarrel with me, whq built a home
That baffles its path to the distant bay?
And yet, I know, when my work is done,
If I open my door, go into the sun,
The wind will suddenly be my friend—
It will bring to my lips the taste of grass,
Of clover under the diving bees;
Blow me butterflies as they pass,
Whiff of honey from jasmine bowers,
Cool, sweet almond of orange flowers.
The wind is rising to fury now;
It booms and scolds at the window-frame,
It rattles the handle of the door,
It is cold as candor and fierce as flame;
Yet when I, tired of my task, go out.
It will clap its hands with a merry shout.
’Tis a fearsome thing on a hilltop high;
Like a hungry wolf, one would think it
meant
To tear me to pieces when I appeared;
But I know the wind, and I am content —
It is full of sunshine, and wings, and bees ;
It only asks me to sample these.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
From Camp to Camp.
Tired of trudging leagues of sand
Through the hours from dawn to noon,
Noon to sunset, forehead fanned
By no breezes, I have come,
Lone and late, to this lagoon.
Here to-night I’ll lie at ease,
By its rippled margin camped,
And forget the ceaseless seas,
Breaking seas, that surged and dirged
All along the leagues I’ve tramped.
Musing by its silent side,
All night through, the guest of Rest,
Unperturbed by wind or tide,
I shall count the marshalled stars
Moving, marching to the west.
While afar on wave-worn shores
Chants the sea in solemn mood,
Here, with Nature out-of-doors,
Room to roam my mind shall find
In her starry amplitude.
Tired of trials vainly fought,
In her sacred presence dumb,
Deeming all the world as nought,
Like to one who lived and died
Long ago, I shall become.
Stars above alone to see,
Only far-off waves to hear
Surging, dirging solemnly—
Like to some vague, vanished dream,
Dreamt by Time, I shall appear.
Thus I think. But this I know:
When the dawn by dew made damp
Rouses me, I’ll up and go
Over leagues untrodden yet,
Moving on from camp to camp.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QULNN.
The Dancing Girl of Angkor.
I have fallen in love with a Dancing Girl
On the walls of old Angkor;
She is carven there in the ruined wall,
And her unshut eyes have seen the fall
Of a thousand years and more.
The jungle has taken the Khmer’s town,
And the banyans hold it fast,
While the grey stone crumbles and slowly
sinks
Under the long liane links,
Deeper into the past.
The wild-cat litters within the shade
Of the sacred Siva’s base;
And the deathly cobra mocks the dead
By the fallen Naga’s seven-spread,
And the ants run on his face.
The hungry jungle has taken Angkor,
And the Ivhmer’s day i$ gone,
But I see the ruined city still
With the shining moat and the terraced hill
And the Dancer dancing on.
Her foot is set on a lotus flower
That shakes with ecstasy;
Her face is turned to the sky, and hers
Is a strange, wild beauty yet that stirs
The stars that watch with me.
I have fallen in love with a Dancing Girl
In an old forgotten town;
All else is gone—the good, the great,
They come no more, but the ages wait
While she dances gaily down.
VICTORIA.
ALFRED L. DIXON.


UPBIKTAHV U.Mfif-n
JO*~ANB t’ERSOWNf.'. IHAtWNG
.MattoN W AU S T« AUSI
A FAMOUS BOOK
pOpC This famous book is posted free to anyone
i iifc t in business or wanting to be in business —
96 PAGES, men and women —youths and grown-ups.
This book is called “Guide to Careers,’’
and it is the most complete handbook that
has ever bpen issued on Australian con-
ditions of business. It gives in detail par-
ticulars of every avenue of approach to
success in business, what to do and how
to do it.
It is the literal truth to say that “Guide
to Careers contains information about
what can be done to increase one’s busi-
ness acumen and knowledge which is
new even to many leading business men,
and every page is of practical value to
the ambitious and self-respecting man
anxious to fit himself for the arduous time
through which we ale now passing and
for the opportunities which are coming
and coming quickly.
Be ready. The opportunities are on
the way. Some are here, and more than
a few of these have been seized by
students of Hemingway and Robertson
whose first step to success and security
was the possession of a copy of “Guide
to Careers”—the present or a previous
edition.
Young men in business ai;e particu-
larly urged to get a copy of “Guide to
Careers.” The fact tfiat they are in
business now is one good reason why they
should read it and take action to make
their positions secure and their futures
progressively better and brighter. Those
just entering business and the parents of
such will get a fund of exact information,
a precise and particular help that will clear
the vision and lead to a right decision as
to the course they will pursue.
“Guide to Careers” will put you on the
right road, will show you the way, and
will give you a stimulus to effort that will
be invaluable to you. Copies are posted
free and without obligation.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy—Secretarial Specialists.
HEAD OFFICES.
38 BAREACK HOUSE, 16 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PEACE, MEEBOURNE, C.l.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth , Adelaide, Hobart
Launceston.
......... DETACH AND POST
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON at
(Just add capital city name)
I would like te have complete information about your
SPECIALIST TUITION IN
Accountancy
Secretaryship
Cost Accountancy
Banking and
Securities
Bankers’ Exams.
Insurance
Municipal Exams.
Scientific Marketing
and Merchandising
Advertising
Salesmanship
Commercial
Bookkeeping
Farm and Station
Bookkeeping
Effective English
and Personal
Development
Correspondence
Handwriting
Arithmetic
Business Shorthand
All Business Subjects
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Training for Executives
Is There a Way to
Keep Your Job?
Advice to Men Who Want to Hold
Their Jobs During the Next Two Years
THOUSANDS of men are wondering if their jobs are
secure —wishing that there was a way to make them
secure.
If you are reading this message in hope of discovering a
job-holding formula —a sure way to keep from losing it —
you will be disappointed. There is no formula, no sure
way. There are many people out of work in Australia.
Not all of them were inefficient. Plenty of good men are
unemployed
The best aid to job holding in times like these can be
summed up in a few words:—
Get yourself out of the class of workers who can be dispensed with.
Get into the indispensable class. Take yourself out of the “in-the-ruck
group who can be easily replaced the minute business gets better. Put
yourself in the group who cannot be replaced.
Over a period of twenty years the
Alexander Hamilton Institute has
had marked success in helping men
to make themselves indispensable.
If increased earning power is any
guide, here are a few local examples
selected from many which show the
v?ilue of Institute Service in Aus-
tralasia :
Assistant Manager now Managing Direc-
tor of Australian Company of Electrical
Appliance concern whose interests are
world-wide.
Accountant —now Sales Manager of Large
Manufacturing Confectionery concern.
Manager—to Director of Engineering
Works.
PROOF THAT IT
PAYS.
Some of the men in organ-
isations who have sub-
scribed to the Alexander
Hamilton Institute Service
are listed below. The
judgment of such men is
an argument, stronger than
anything we could write.
WILL APPLETON, Man-
aging Director The
Charles Haines Adver-
tising Agency, New
Zealand.
H. W. < EPP, Economic
Advisor, Commonwealth
Government.
ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary
and Deputy Chairman
A.M.P. Society, Sydnev.
W. E. CLEGG, General
Manager, Viewers, Com-
monwealth Steel Pro-
ducts, Ltd.
A new booklet called “What an Executive Should Know”
tells all about the Institute’s Service for business men. What
is this Service? It represents the condensed experience of
the best business brains in the country. It is the most com-
prehensive, tangible help available to executives in meeting
the difficult business conditions of to-day.
Faced with a task of evolving new ways to meet changing
conditions, H. & R. have brought this new Course into
line with local conditions.
Can any ambitious man fail to get something of value from
contact with a Service like this?
WE INVITE YQU to send for the facts in the booklet,
“What an Executive Should Know.” It is a book that
should be read by every man who expects to win a
prominent place for himself in the next five years. It is well
worth a half hour of your time.
The book will be sent you by mail without charge if you
will simply mail the coupon.
— Detach and Post
To the ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
(Division of Hemingway and Robertson Pty., Ltd.)
3S Barrack House, Barrack Street, Sydney
38 Bank House, Bank Placo, Melbourne
Send me “What an Executive Should Know,” which 1 may keep
without charge.
NAME
BUSINESS ADDRESS -
38/13
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s2fyuCLetia
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin *
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from .
for which I enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas 12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
<k
■
ft
v \eV'
O 1
* ■■;:■ # s -
of
e *O-
-
,5- U'.6 fft.C 6 ’
.■ • //ot
•' o* V
A**"
V r\"f


• *\ • X.
iillillllii
SI
■-■■:?:■
¥:W:>¥M¥S:S
m
liiS®
SSSSSS
hhhhimm
V' V '■+ 5 t 'I
i
lllliipiiiliiii]
I
.
: • ; ;. ■
r. s. <j
S fa
mm
'' * i
\
y
y
M,
<
*SOUR TRADE
fc
SiliMPI
It
ft
IV
J md
&
o
v'\«
q BOTTLED. BY
ROBERT PORTER & CO./
LON DON,ENGLAND';
K The“BullDog|
Bottling J
S*.
*£K BRO^
gaTb
<&/
X y .
:S:s V-
/, m
KiSSSii
'> '
vr
7/if
iy llp©©
□
HERE is no more
palatable com-
bination of a drink
and nourishment
than “Bull Dog”
Guinness Stout.
Every ere am-
crowned glass of the
renowned Dublin
brew retains the
qualities that spread
the fame of
“Guinness” when
bottled under the
“Bull Dog” brand
m w
m
il©
®C3 '
