

r
The Bulletin
/W/ 'SoMcut stahtd tMT^Jbd
Vol. S3.*—No. 2710.
Wednesday, January 20, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This
Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. *
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit ~
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' 1 1
My Name
Vy Address
S.B. 231 ..
Testimonies from all parts of
the world, prove the beneficial
results obtained from the use of
Cuticura
Preparations
Pimples, rashes, eczema and all forms
of itching, burning skin troubles are
quickly healed by regular use of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Sample each
free. Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established, 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Iu business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Rcpresentafive:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
iIMyiMEIIMj-g women!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS H
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIF* E,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph'* i* re*
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street,
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
aud at home. Australians are cprdially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2. where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
as*
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
THE EXAMINER is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and 1 ourist centre of Tasmania.
THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturdav
Evening Express” obtainable from. ' v
W. R. Rolph <Ss Sons Pty., Ltd.,
78*75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street. Melbourne
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Changing England
Dr. M. Dorothy George in England in
Transition (Routledge; Dymocks; 7s. 6d.)
fixes the end of the seventeenth century as
the period when the nation first “showed
signs of becoming ‘modern.’ ” An interest
began to be taken in statistics. Gregory
King, basing his calculations on the taxa-
tion'returns, estimated that the population
of England and Wales was 5i millions, and
he came to the further conclusion that, in
the case of more than half the population,
their expenses exceeded their earnings. The
“laboring poor,” whose “utmost efforts at
the then rate of wages” were insufficient
to support life unless charity stepped in,
numbered 2,795,000, and there were 30,000
unemployables. Most of the country was
still as primeval as in the Middle Ages,
but in London and the provincial cities
the industrial revolution had already, in
effect, begun. Norwich and the West
Riding were turning out worsteds; Birming-
ham and Sheffield hardware; Nottingham
and Derby hosiery; Northumberland and
Durham coal, and so on. Dr. George
handled the vexed enclosures question in an
unbiased spirit. She quotes Young: “While
a' county is laid out in open fields, every
farmer tied down to the husbandry of his
slovenly neighbor, there can be no good
husbandry.” The cottagers went in tens
of thousands after the Enclosures Act; in
some cases they swelled the hordes of
vagrants already roaming the country, in
others they crowded to the poorhouses. The
detested large farmer class appeared, and
got the blame for the rise in food prices.
Prices in the past had been based on the
labor of women and children and on the
poverty of the small farmers, who dumped
their surplus products for whatever they
would fetch. In 1800 corn prices reached
the highest level on record. The lot of all
but members of the sheltered classes was
appalling. And now came the end of the
Napoleonic regime, and the horrors of peace.
The poor faced an impoverished Europe,
a staggering national debt, and the begin-
ning of the machine age. In short, a social
revolution such as millions are facing now.
All these things Dr. George, who is one of
the greatest authorities living on her period,
deals with in clear judicial language, and she
supports her arguments with a wealth of
footnotes, and some excellent, if familiar,
illustrations.
Mrs. C. S. Peel takes up the story in
The Stream of Time (John Lane; 18s.),
which, while nominally the romance of a
nineteenth-century family, is actually a
gossiping history of the era. The rise of
the Londons from obscurity to wealth and
power by the agency of cotton is, of course,
the story of her own family, and much of
her information is evidently taken from
the Peel archives. Robert John London
was b«rn Trafalgar Day in a house
with a number of blank windows which had
been filled up io qscape the window tax —
one of the measi?v<% necessitated by what
some modern politicians would call “.released
;redits” in the reign of George 111. The
currency was debased under this monarch,
and the window tax for years afterwards
helped to make up the deficiency. The family
at remote Conisbrowth learned of the
doings of the aristocracy in London and
Brighton from visitors. It was an age of
inconceivable brutality. Lord Chesterfield
staged a man-and-beast fight, with which
“the Prince of Wales and his friends were
delighted.” A man undertook to tear a
bulldog’s tongue from its roots, and the
First Gentleman of Europe got so drunk
afterwards that he fell headlong downstairs.
There was colossal wealth on the one
hand, abject poverty on the other. Palaces
like Stowe House, where a journey from
the kitchens to the dining-hall necessitated
a walk of a quarter of a mile, were occupied
and fully staffed; and lavishness was the
order of the day in everything. A recipe
for soup for a party of 12 required a
leg - of veal and a neck of mutton or two
fowls; another soup recipe required two
grouse for each diner. At the other end
of the scale were the laborers, “who in
those days were spoken of as if they might,
have been crocodiles or Barbary apes.”
Ninety per cent, were on the dole; the
Speenhamland relief system (exhaustively
dealt with in Dr. George’s book) made up
the deficiency of the worker’s wages to 3s.
for himself and Is. 6d. for his wife and
children per week, payments being increased
as the price of the quartern loaf (Is. to
Is 6d.) rose. The French Revolution had
filled both the landed gentry and the
moneyed middle
class, which was
being produced by
industrialism, with
a terror of the
masses, and a de-
termination to keep
them in their place. The sentiment was
partly responsible for the criminal laws. A
boy of 10 (“wearing a bib, or what your
old nurse will know better as a pinafore”)
was sentenced to be hanged for stealing-
some notes, and only reprieved and given
14 years’ penal servitude after an agita-
tion. “Some of the boy convicts were so
young that they could not put on their
clothes, and had to be dressed.” The treat-
ment of children generally was awful. Many
in the Macclesfield mills were under five
years of age.
Babes such as these had to be beaten, awake to
get them to the mill in time. After their day’s
work they struggled home and fell asleep anywhere,
so that they could sleep. ... A man giving evidence
before one of several commissions which were held
said, “That little girl has to go a mile and a half
to her work, aiid she comes home at half-past
eight, and all that I see of her is to call her up
in the morning- and send her to bed, and it almost
makes my heart break.”
A picture of England in 1846:
Had it npt been for poaching and thieving, more
of the less skilled laborers and their families must
have died than did die. They stole roots out of the
fields, they risked death or wounding from mantraps
and spring-guns and sentence of transportation for
the sake of a rabbit or hare. They stole pig food
and chicken food. Children scrambled .and fought
in the gutter for apple peelings, and raked the
hedges for berries to eat and for twigs with which
to make tea.
The repeal of the Com Laws witnessed a
change of heart on the part of the more
fortunate classes. Reformers such as the
saintly Lord Shaftesbur}' (who only gets a
couple of passing mentions in this book)
were largely responsible. Humanitarianism
became fashionable. Dickens, Hood and
the rest lent their aid, and the new creed
soon became profitable, politically and
otherwise. Child labor, sweated labor, out-
rageous penal laws had nearly all gone by
the end of the century. But there were
several hundred millionaires, and, to quote
Booth, “124 million were starving or on
the verge of starvation.”
The title of Mr. Lukin Johnston’s In
England To-day (Dent; Bs. 6d.) explains
itself. He is an Englishman who returned
recently after spending 25 years in Canada.
His book lacks the depth, style and know-
ledge of the others, but it is significant as
the point of view of one who is virtually
a foreigner. For the most part he rhapso-
dises about the beauties of the English
countryside, and the romance of its ancient
customs. A farmer talks to him of the
unemployed:—
They draw the dole and won’t work, nor ever
will until the extension benefit is withdrawn. An'
the worst of it is.the parents won’t let the youngsters
leave home, because if they do the household loses
their dole.
In spite of phenomena like the dole and
the unemployed Mr. Lukin finds England
much the same as in his boyhood:—
After all, social customs might change, but the
essential things, the churches and the market-place,
the “pubs” and the yokels, were there just as thev
had always been.
It may be that this immutability is
England’s chief danger. London still pre-
sents more striking contrasts between wealth
and poverty than any other city. Relief-
seekers in the country bear a strong family
resemblance to the vagrants of the seven-
teenth century. The city “totters,” or wild
children, who feed from rubbish-tins aren’t
much better off. all said and done, than
the outcast children of a century ago.
Drink, drugs and prostitution still constitute
grave national problems. Something has
been done to build a New Jerusalem in this
green and pleasant land, but even the
amiable Mr. Lukin seems to feel that a
tremendous lot remains to be done.
RED PAGE.
The Russian Theatre
There is a great rush of works which
purport to give a picture of the artistic
forces that are fermenting in the vat of
Sovietism. Most of them read more like
political treatises than books on art. We
read of the temporary survival of bourgeois
ideology, of the downfall of the Right, of
the rise of the Left, of the emergence of
the Proletcult, of the creation of theatrical
collectivism, of isms without number.
There is feverish experiment with new
machinery, revolving stages and so forth,
lhe Russian theatre is nothing if not up
to date. There is a miners’ strike in Eng-
land and an immediate outburst of plays
about it from the proletarian viewpoint.
•Trotsky is dethroned and his downfall is
theatricalised. The Government wants
busier factories, so plays on mass production
pour forth from the obedient pens of play-
wnghts. There is a row in China and
Meierhold, the leading producer, puts •on
(Red Page continued on puje 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—The Conscience
i/ Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE
Anthony Horderns
Gmmrn
Half-yearly
3? - *•
mMm
g *
wmm
m
JJamV
M*
SB
•ippis
ifeM
Ijr*
8&S
■
tw®
mWim
mm
§<a!a\
Anthony Horderns’ Half-yearly Sales are based on quality-value and not on price-value.
Quality is the measure of value, while price is purely relative; therefore look for quality
in all you buy. This standard emphasises how 1 Anthony Horderns definitely increase
the effective value of money. Only twice a year is such a bargain event open to you, and
it is yours of which to make the most. It means that you will be able to save on all you
buy when the need to save is most necessary. sSpend wisely and you will spend well, oy
shopping at “The People’s Sale you will always spend wisely.
Quality GARDEN IMPLEMENTS greatly reduced
No Garden is complete
without these items.
15/- Step-ladders, 11/3
A real necessity in every home. Made of very
substantial pine. Buy now at this genuine saving.
They will last a lifetime.
Size, sft. Price, 13/- Sale Price 10/3
Size, 6ft. Price, 15/- Sale Price 11/3
30/- Garden Seats, 16/9
Astounding reductions in “Brickfield” Garden Seats.
Featuring 12 hardwood battens, and strong steel
legs. Ideal for the garden or tennis court.
Size, 4ft. Price, 30/- Sale Price 16/9
Size, 6ft. Price, 33/6 Sale Price 19/6
50/- Sprinkler Hose Sets,
Comprising 45ft. Goodyear hose, with
4 sprinklers. Will water an area of
60ft. x 15ft. Price 50/-
42/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
42/6
30ft. Garden Hose, 15/-
Good-quality 3-ply wrapped complete with fittings,
in 30ft. and 60ft. lengths.
7/6 Hoseless Sprays, 5/6
These wonderful "Wizard” Hoseless Sprays fit any
taps. Price 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price S/6
Write for your copy of
our
Sale Catalogue
POST FREE
GARDEN TOOLS
12 - English Shovels,
■
Less than half-price, these good-
quality Shovels. Manufactured by the
reliable firm of Spear & Jackson, of
5|9
England. D handle and square mouth. Buy
now and save 6/3. No. 7 size. Price . . 12/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 5/9
Brade’s and Parkes’ Tools.
Parkes’ good-quality Dig Forks.
Size, 4-prong. Price, 8/3. Sale Price . . 7/6
Parkes’ Dig Spades.
No. 1. Price, 9/6 Sale Price ........ 8/9
No. 2. Price, 10/- Sale Price 9/-
Brade’s L.H.R.M. Shovels.
No. 2. Price, 1 1/3. Sale Price 10/6
Brade’s No. 0 Best Steel Spades. Price . . 8/9
Sale Price 8/-
Brade’s No. 1 Best Steel Spades. Price • • 9/-
Sale Price
Parkes’ L.H.R.M. Plumbers’ Shovels. Price, 8/6
Sale Price
Parkes’ Post Hole Shovels. Price 9/9
Sale Price ®/’
3/6 Steel Spades, 3/-
Good strong English Stamped Steel Spades.
Specially reduced for thrifty shoppers.
Price • ... 3/6 and 3/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 3/-
BAR. HOW BARG
29/6 Wheelbarrows, 25/6 -
V-'
Extra strong Galvanised Wheelbarrows. Pipe
frame and strong wrought wheel. Buy this
barrow and you’ll never need another. _ r
Price 29/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 25/6
Lighter Barrows, recommended for lady gar-
deners; tubular frame and red iron tray.
Price 24/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . 18/6
(Agricultural Department, Fourth Floor.)
High-grade Lawivmowers
£7O “Wizard” Mower,
Shanks’ “Wizard” Motor Lawnmower.
1 6in. cut. Heavy roller. Chain drive.
Complete with grass-box. Price, £<7o
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
£65
5^5
£l7/5/- “Standard” Mowers,
The well-known Shanks “Standard
Lawnmowers. Double chain drive.
£l5
Sale Prices.
£ll/17/6
£l4/5/-
£l5/-/-
£lO “Silent Messor” Mower,
This excellent line of Gi'een s Silent
Messor” Lawnmowers, complete with chain
r
drive and grass-box.
Size, i Oin. Sale Price • • £lO
Size, 12in. Sale Price £0
5/- Hedge Shears, 3/9
A' special purchase from the English makers!
' Sheffield Steel Hedge Shears. Sharp Bin. blades.
Price, pair 5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair .. . , . .3/9
USE OUR D.P.S.
Deposit-Purchase System.
First select the goods you require. Leave a
deposit on them, pay off the balance in instal-
ments and the purchase is yours. You pay
no interest at all, nor any increase in. price
for the accommodation, but, on the contrary,
you have always the advantage of Anthony
Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices.”
£
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ŕ


BEST
IN THE
LONG ONE
I ''
Try any beer in any
bottle and you’ll
decide that the best
is in the long one.
s
Sr
CV
s
N
p?
e
*7
At.
s
±
A>
9m
O
%
s
0
<C
*t
<■£
*y
'*/
A/
**
/
IA
50.
x
s
ŗ
ř


I
m
%
* s
r
-TV
COMMERCIAL ART
Commercial Art and Advertising are creating big business to-day.
That is why TRAINED Commercial Artists are commanding big
incomes. Splendid positions await young people who train with us.
Every student who has ever gained our regular Diploma of Graduation has
been placed in a good position in Commercial Illustrating. Disprove this
statement and we will give £lOOO to charity. - ■ »
YOU who have drawing ability—are you taking advantage of this oppor-
tunity?
The Art Training Institute offers you the teaching of TEN of the foremost
Specialists in the several branches of Commercial Art. Such service is quite
unique and without parallel in the history of Commercial Art in Australia.
Our Director of Studies, Mr. Tom Alban, is the most highly-qualified Art
Instructor in Australia. He is an Exhibitor to Royal Academy, London; King s
Prizeman, Royal Drawing Society; awarded 12 gold, silver and bronze medals
in great National Competitions.
6 I
jOOjllusort&f
n
..
PERSONAL OR
POSTAL TUITION
The Photographs of our Instructors
appear in our FREE BOOK, “THE NEW
ERA OF COMMERCIAL ART,” 60
pages, hundreds of illustrations in full
color. SEND FOR IT TO-DAY. Please
mention “The' Bulletin,” and enclose
Bd., cost of registered postage.
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
“Roar, China,” a class-war play in which
the stage is set for two contrasted scenes,
one commercial England, ..represented y
bales of goods, the other China, represented
by a canoe. Between the two is water
and over, the water are guns, suggesting the
destruction of the barrier, water. An Ameri-
can is drowned accidentally. The English
captain of a warship demands Chinese blood
and gets iti A Chinese cabin-boy suicides
outside the captain’s door to symbolise the
Chinese spirit of non-resistance, the'captain
being the symbol of aggression. The play
is a picture of imperialistic exploitation as
the Bolsheviks see it. Sympathisers with
the Bolshevik theory are ecstatic over the
Moscow premiere j Basil Dean, the English
producer, describes it as “a curious mixtuie
of rubbishy propaganda and good, old-
fashioned melodrama,” and he seems nearer
the truth.
The complete victory of the forces ol
the Left makes the people all-powerful.
The common folk become strong enough
to demand the expulsion of even, the fore-
most radical director if he shows the least
sign of reaction. Meierhold appears ,to be
a genuine artist, but he is sent packing be-
cause his audiences read bourgeois compro-
mise in his most recent plays. Tairov, an-
other great producer, becomes “preoccupied
with engineering, mechanics, urbanism and
concrete realism,” presumably because his
head is in danger as soon as he attempts to
step outside the range of Bolshevik policy.
“Thus,” says one apologist, “the theatre
brought the function it was to fulfil for the
Russian people and a harmonious form to
flower. Once it was placed in charge
of the folk with instructions to exalt it by
leading it along the path of self-realisation,
liberation and salvation, there was no draw-
ing back save to become an object of
universal ridicule.” It may be all right
but it sounds like a man trying to lift
himself by his braces.
And so it goes on. “Expression will rise
until it becomes the reflection of the new
faith of mankind, the faith that must
emerge from the exaltation and worship of
pure science, a kind of deification of science
that is already apparent in Russia to-day.”
The theatre will then assume the form of
“a church, no longer on the old Middle
Age theological plan, but a church to
which man may go for initiation into the
truth of his self-evolving on a set of prin-
ciples provided by the continuous study of
evolution.”
Why call this “the New Spirit”? It is
as old as the time when the first artist was
hit on the head with a stone axe for draw-
ing a mastodon more like a mastodon than
the collective ignorance of the tribe was
capable of perceiving. It is as old as the
decree of the Council of Nicaea (a.d. 787),
which declared that “it is not the invention
of the painter which creates a picture, but
the inviolable law and tradition of the
Church. It is not the painter but the Holy
Fathers who have to invent and dictate.
To them manifestly belongs the composi-
tion, to the painter only the execution.”
Put “playwright” for “painter” and “the
common folk” for “Holy Fathers” and you
have the “New Spirit” of Russian theatre
in a nutshell. The paintings which the Holy
Fathers dictated and which their humble
servants executed are now only historical
curiosities. The Madonnas of Titian, which
broke every theological convention, are
still acknowledged masterpieces. There is
no doubt that there is intense activity in
the Russian theatre, which has one advan-
tage over the theatre of the West—the
absence of commercialism. But it has a
new enemy in State collectivism, with Lenin
as its Saviour and the proletariat as its
Church. The great producer of Russia
will have to fight their tyranny as Shak-
speare and his fellow-realists fought the
tyranny of the churchmen, or his art will
be what Basil Dean calls it—-rubbishy
propaganda. And anybody knows what
Time does to propaganda.
F. S.
Lawson, the Man
Henry Lawson, by His Mates (Angus
and Robertson; 55.), has a foreword by Lord
Beauchamp, who recognised his genius 30
years ago:—
Henry Lawson is the greatest poet whom Australia
has yet produced The best features in the char-
acter of the average Australian to-day were taught
him by Lawson away back in the last century.
True enough; but this book, which is made
up of reminiscences by old friends and
fellow-poets—J. Le Gay Brereton and E. J.
Brady; Fred Broomfield and Jim Grahame;
Rod Quinn, T. W. Heney and many more
—takes his gifts and influence for granted,
and stresses chiefly his lovableness as a man.
And, above all, his humor, which was one of
the secrets of his lovableness. No one so
completely devoid of malice as Henry
ever had the comic sense in a more de-
veloped form. He could pay a profound
tribute in the form of a joke. Listen to
Rod Quinn: —
A reporter late for Archibald’s funeral asked
Lawson for the names of those who had been there.
“Well,” said Lawson slowly, “Prior was there, and
Fred Broomfield was there and Brady was there and
Macleod was there, but there was someone else,
someone very great, someone more important than
any of us—wait a moment while I think who he
was —Oh yes, I know,” he added gently, “Archi-
bald was there.”
There are scores of anecdotes like that—
anecdotes which tell you more about
Lawson than any description could—in this
very human book.
D.
Pigeon or Leech?
“Feng-Shui” slips in his article on “Malay
Poetry” (R.P. 30/9/’3l) when he renders
lintah as the “little green pigeon.” The
correct translation of the pantun mentioned
{“Dari, mana datang lintahV’ and the rest)
is;—
“Whence comes the great leech?” .
“From the mountain down to the rice swamps.
“Whence comes love?”
“From the eye down to the heart.”
This translation holds good for Java,
Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula, and
may therefore be taken as representative
of the Malay language throughout the
archipelago.
There are two species of leech in the
jungle swamps and streams of these coun-
tries; the smaller, called pachat, is found
in the damp steamy jungle undergrowth and
in the tall swamp grass, and is much the
same as the common leech found in
Northern Australia and New Guinea. The
lintah is much larger. The Malays be-
lieve that it comes from the mountain
streams down to the rice swamps. It is
found in water only, and is considered
dangerous.
I once saw a Malay stretch one to nine
inches in length, in a'frantic attempt to
tear it from his body before it settled down
to business.
KUANTAN.
A Satchel of Books
Methuen and Co. have produced Sinhad,
by “Edwina,”' in book form at 6s. “Sin-
bad” is a terrier who has been one of
the most popular figures in New York “Life”
since 1928. There are about four dozen
full-page pictures depicting his career, and
if there is a better present for a small boy
at anywhere near the price this critic
doesn’t know it.
Bill of Billaibong, by Mary Grant Bruce
(Ward, Lock; 3s. 6d.), reintroduces the
Linton family. Bill for the first nine
years of his life had been Percival and
spoiled. He arrives at Billab’ong with a
profound inferiority complex on the sub-
ject of his red hair, and applies wool dye,
which turns it green. No one jeers, and so
he gets a clearer understanding of com-
radeship arid a more comfortable outlook on
life. A great book for an Australian kid.
In Gipsy the Greyhound (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d.) Leigh Woods has written a
novel which should delight Rooty Hill and
Harold Park alike. In addition to a love-
story the book contains a vivid description of
a coursing match, and innumerable hints on
the breeding, rearing and training of grey-
hounds—claimed by the enthusiastic author
to be the world’s noblest and best canines.
The Jade of Destiny, by Jeffery Farnol
(Sampson, Low: Robertson and Mullens;
7s. 6d.), presents a picture of Elizabethan
England. The climate seems to have behaved
better in those times than it does now, for,
though this is a summer-time tale, the sun
shines almost every day. In such pleasant
weather Captain Joscelyn Dinwiddie
pledges his sword to the saving of lone
Aldrington’s young brother, the youthful
Earl of Aldrington, who is gaming his for-
tune and lands away in London. How the
captain, a gallant mercenary of both the
Spanish and the Netherlands Wars and a
pastmaster with the sword, unearths a plot
within a plot for the undoing of the young
orphan and his sister; how, with the aid of
two staunch old comrades-in-arms, he foils
the same and brings brother and sister back
into the Queen’s good graces, makes one of
those spirited stories of action in the telling
of which Mr. Farnol excels.
The contributors to the December issue of
“The Round Table” have concentrated on the
world crisis. There are revealing discus-
sions of the financial position of Britain and
America’s problem in Europe. The Aus-
tralian section is particularly well done this
quarter. It comprises a judicial, well-docu-
mented article on N. S. Wales and its
Premier that might have been written yester-
day.
And a Little Verse
PROCREATION.
One is not loved for his or her own sake,
But to relieve the intolerable ache
AVljich all sterilities in Nature’s bosom wake.
She, slyly smiling, watches the affair,
And when the Mass is finished for the pair
She blows the ash of love into the empty air.
Then she relents, for she is old and wise,
And from her secret treasure-chest supplies
Drugs for the troubled heart and washes for
the eyes.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
TO POETS.
Revel in these woodland glades,
Pagan gods and fairy shades.
Sweet your singing, sweet your slumbers.
Sweeter than the morbid numbers
Of a poet faintly sighing
Of our joyless birth and dying.
Give me men who in their verse
Scenes Bacchantic will rehearse:
Oh for men with wild emotion
Calling them to poesy’s lotion.
Poets should not creep along
AVith the helpless hopeless throng
Of mankind; ’twill never be
Soaring in hot ecstasy.
Leave your swagmen, leave your horses,
Turn to old Elysian courses;
Come with me to cool recesses,
\\ r here the golden day oppresses
Smiling glades with grass as sweet
As ever felt a Centaur’s feet.
Song-girt bowers, love-capped hours,
Thrilling foliage, scented flowers.
Bring no music; every tree
Modulates in harmony.
Bring a love with swelling breast;
Bid her love at thy behest.
If she will not, says thee nay,
Leaves thee lone, alack the day!
Sit thee down in solitude
Till the impish Naiad brood,
Creeping round the forest tree.
Softly come arid solace thee.
n.s.w.
GREGORY SULLIVAN.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’ o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Gerald B.: Pined without the option for
using both “magic wand” and “multitudinous mur-
mur” in the same set of verses.... Cynthia L. P.:
Ineptitudes... .K.K.: Your primrose path wants
levelling. We set off on it with pump soles with
disastrous results... .W.F.L.: Your fancy drags a
wing.... Cecily D.: Put a bit more finish on it....
Rosalie W.: To be quite frank, we’ve found more
poetry in an apple dumpling. .. .Joyce S.: Weak all
ways.... Beverly : Very nicely done. And not worth
doing... .Flector: Hopeful. You’ll get more effect
with shorter sentences. .. .J.S.P.: “Bohemia” is very
slight, and the idea in the other is skin and bone
through overwork.... Static: Futile stuff.... G.A.8.;
Your misery verse is too blatant and your nonsense
verse heavier than an undigested damper... .8.N.D.:
Probably we didn’t. If we thought you had a
chance of selling it elsewhere, we wouldn’t....
M.J.C.: Old-fashioned sentimentality... .R.W.I.; —
Pencil and paper, pen and ink,
Give me silence, let me think.
After which promising start you let us down with
chatter about sunsets and curfews and fairies and
fauns... . H.: If the house was like you describe it,
our sympathy is all with the absconding wife....
L.K.N.: Still somehow it seems to drag.... Enid M.:
No, but they hold promise. Tennyson has a fine
thing on the same theme as the long one—“Oh, hear
me, Mother Ida, ere I die!”—and that doesn’t help.
. ...C.E.: “Heaven” might make an appeal if it
were briefer.... Geoffrey F.: Well, it took some
thinking over before thumbs were turned down....
S.L.: A nice picture postcard in irreproachable
rhymes... .Bellerive: Now for a more intimate touch;
IN MEMORY OF MY FATHER.
Hoarded in fond memory
In the seclusion of a drawer
Lay the velvet smoking cap
My dear old father wore.
On misty days of winter
In his feeble years of life,
Seated by the fire he’d
Smoke his briar pipe.
Pioneer of Australia who’d
Helped to blaze the track,
To diggers, blacks and outlaws,
Dear father could look back.
. ...L.D.: No kick in “The Phantom Horses”....
J. 1.: “Life Savers” is deadly bad....F.D.: Undis-
tinguished rhyme. .. .N.F.M.: The story is silly and
the verse atrocious... .8.P.: “The Road Back” only
needed a stamp to be set on it. .. .T.V.T.: Too
many rhymes duplicated in “Hikin’ ”... .M.M.T.;
Sad doggerel... .T. R.W. T.: Of all the poems (?) on
“Our Bridge” yours is the woodenest. Sample:—
The engineers and architects
Also have done their part,
Preparing plans with ev’ry care
Right from the very start.
With measure and theodolite
Surveyors too have earned
A share in yon great enterprise
Not idly to be spurned.
....Hesperian: No “dulcet music” in that...'.
J.8.H.: No demand for Australian anthems begin-
ning
Splendid Australia,
Child Of Britannia,
Girt by great seas.
.... J.H.: Muddled thinking and labored writing....
1LL.8.H.: Don’t want ghost yarns... .J.0.H.: Not
for us. .. . R.H.: Improbable. . . .F.D.: Long-winded,
and it wasn’t much of a mystery after a11....M.J.:
Turned “The Wandering Jew” away 8.8.5.: You
picked the lazy way out and spoiled a good story.
.... G.S.: If you must write about a poet, don’t
let him recite your verses... .E.D.: That makes the
sixth bullying husband drowned in a flood this
month M.A.: Cannibal king shall not sup in these
pages... .G.A.E.: Tell us the name of the pub where
the habitues spin such dreary yarns, and well
put it on our black list R.P.: That type of yarn
went out with hansom cabs... .8.T.C.: Can’t see
that because a man grows mangel-wurzels he should
be dubbed a, dolt R.C.A.: But so many people
want to tell us about their walking tours!.... G.R.:
Gang story too lurid. .. .L.S.: That’s not how an
expert would wind it up....J.8.: So weak that it
had to be carried to the w.p.b. on a stretcher....
E.C.J.: Manor houses in Australia !... .S.J.H.: Man
and maid —tiff—park meeting—reunited; and you
want five guineas for it!....F.D.: You will be
telling us next that a mad balloonist dropped the
monuments on Easter Island.... K.C.: A little less
about the fauna and the flora and more about Bill
and Mary, please... .M.J.: After asking the reader
to spare you a few minutes you take 24 pages to
explain that the lady didn’t run away from her
husband... .C.L.C.: Found your “humorist” a fatu-
ous ass. ...8.R.: Boring. .. .L.F.: Our eyes are still
smarting from the effort to read your handwriting.
....P.D.: Not much of a yarn, but a good recipe
for making rum... .W.H.H.: When you write of
places like that you want to make them so real
that the readers can feel the mosquitoes biting....
E.E.W.: Your “Sunset” and the rest are more like
stage backcloths than poetry.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.C.N.: Incident too 10ca1.... R.W.: Millions of
bricks have been dropped on that foreman....
A.H.F.: Object on right put it out of the running.
. ...T.J.R.: Don’t dress our drovers like American
cowboys.,. .E. 8.: Sydney Art School, Royal Art
Society’s School and East Sydney Tech, can all be
recommended... .G.G.V.: Just suggest non-essential
details; you overdraw. .. .S.D.: Color sketches use-
less here.... J.W.8.: Too much black... .F.D.:
Accept statement that beast is a bunyip; dispute
assertion that man with drooping mo. is Lang....
L.Q.: Episode was stale before drawing arrived....
J.H.A.; Johnny waiting outside picture-show with
flowers for Garbo waited there 15 years ago for
Theda Bara. . . .H.K.: Neat, but no fun in it....
E.W.S.: Why don’t you give your men and women
ears?. . . .A.C.: Elephant, bad; mouse, worse; fanner,
worst. .. .C.P.: Fertiliser-and-Strawberry gag is lifted
from a Laurel and Hardy fi1m,...A.T.H.: Laughing
hyaena muzzled by censor. .. .N.J.C.: The shadows are
wrong, for a start. .. .8.L.5.: There is only one
Souter. . . .F.D.W.: Looks like a belated entry for
the Canberra poster competition C.T.: Unutterably
awful. .. .E.8.R.: They flopped... .W.J.: Time that
mother-in-law had a holiday... .W.G.C.: Draw on
white paper.


r


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2710.
January 20, 1932.
THE MEN WHO WON THE WAR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IV,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2S'J Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrama: 35 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
MUST OUR TARIFF GO?
It would be silly of Protectionists to merely
deny that there is a reaction against the
principle for which they stand; common-
sense demands rather that they should find
out what are the causes of the unrest) so
that they may see whether anything is
being done under the name of Protection to
damage the principle.
As usual, the loudest execrations and pro-
tests come from the country. We are told
that at the moment when the primary pro-
ducer required the cheapest possible mach-
inery and stores, the tariff was suddenly
raised against him. It is not true that
the tariff was raised against him in par-
ticular, but it is true that it was raised.
It had to be. Those very crashes in the
markets for our staples which threw the
farmer on his beam-ends made tariff in-
creases indispensable. Our imports had been
40 millions in excess of our exports, and we
had made good the balance by foreign
loans. Suddenly the borrowing ceased; and
had not Australian banks been able to
come to the rescue, by reason of having
for years pursued a policy of great caution
for which they had been widely cursed,
default would have been inevitable. To
meet the situation there had to be an
emergency tariff, with primage duties,
embargoes and prohibitions. In 1927 our
imports amounted to 165 millions; our
exports to 144 millions. Then the bottom
began to fall out of our markets. Taking
the average of London prices in 1927 as
a base (100), there was a fall to 95 by Dec.,
1928, to 88.3 by Dec., 1929, to 68.7 by Dec.,
1930. To meet this sudden fall of one-third
we had to cut imports on that account
alone by over 50 millions. To meet the
stoppage of loans, which made it impossible
any longer to pay for imports in excess of
exports, we had to make a further cut of
over 30 millions. A balance might no doubt
have been reached by a tremendous increase
of exports; but any sudden increase was
out of the question.
It might look as though, having these
millions less of exports, we simply could
not buy goods abroad, whether there was
a tariff or not, so that high tariffs, prohibi-
tions, embargoes, etc., were unnecessary.
But that overlooks this: imports might have
been paid for first, leaving an entirely in-
sufficient sum to provide for interest and
charges on the public debt. The only way
to make payment of the public debt charges
a first charge on our exports would have been
through prohibition of shipments except by
the Government—in other words, by the
Commonwealth commandeering all wool,
wheat, butter, etc., for export, holding what
it required of the proceeds and making
the balance (if any) available to pay for
imports. The only alternative scheme, and
one open to much less objection, was
through the imposition of tariffs to dis-
courage imports, or through the imposition
of embargoes and prohibitions to forbid
them.
The emergency tariff served its purpose
magnificently. We were faced with almost
certain default on our overseas payments.
No amount of economy here could have
had the smallest effect upon that. The
debt abroad is a debt in gold or in sterling.
All we have here is Australian paper, which
is not money at all outside our own borders.
Yet we got through 1930 and 1931 without
keeping a single foreign creditor waiting.
The countries most like our own in the
character of their products and in the
manner of their development are those of
S. America. One after the other these have
defaulted—even Chile, with its enormous
nitrate deposits. We, on the other hand,
were never a day late. Had it not been for
one colossal fool or criminal, Australia
would to-day have borne a reputation higher
than it ever had in all its history. Mean-
while, the emergency tariff gave us also a
revenue which will be a principal factor in
almost, if not quite, balancing the Com-
monwealth budget this year—a matter of
far less importance than the payment of
our debts abroad, yet of very great value
in restoring confidence in this country.
It is still true that you cannot hatch a
chicken without breaking an egg. Men
have taken hold of this tariff and poured
ridicule and contempt upon “the back-yard
industries” which this line and that have
brought into being. Forty—perhaps sixty—
per cent, protection has been given to some
industry which is furnishing work to half a
dozen boys and men, at the, expense, it is
alleged, of the whole community. The state-
ment is very flattering to the half-dozen
boys and men. But we can afford to leave
them out. If their industry had not come
into being at all, if work had not been
found for a single man or boy, the duty
would still have been justified. A flood was
threatening to overwhelm us. It had to be
kept out. It was kept out. That somebody
would suffer a little in the process was
inevitable. A good deal of the howling we
have heard shows a grievous lack of sense
of proportion. It is like the farmer who
admitted that his was a pretty good crop—
-36 bushels or more,—“but it takes a terrible
lot out of the soil.”
No protectionist will, however, permit his
principles to be judged by every individual
entry in the present schedules. Some lines
there may be which, on inquiry, will be
found not to be protective at all. But that
will not necessarily justify their removal.
For we have to realise that our dangers are
not past. With the aid of embargoes and
prohibitions we may this year just manage
to make our imports balance our exports
after payment of our interest bill. But
we have thus far made no provision for such
a disaster as drought, with a slump in our
exports. The two years in which we have
won back to our present position have been
exceptionally fruitful. A continuance of
such seasons is a great deal too much to
even hope for. At June 30, 1929, just
before our crisis began, Australian banks
held 27 millions in coin and bullion, and
there was a reserve of 23 millions of gold
against the note issue. To-day our reserve
against the note issue is 10 millions, and the
banks hold less than three millions of coin
and bullion. To build up gold reserves in
Australia at the present price of the metal
would probably be bad business; but at
least an effort must be made to do the next
best thing, which is the establishment of
a sterling reserve in London. Until that is
done the less interference there is with the
restrictive tariff schedules the better, though
that, of course, should not shut out the
removal of gross anomalies and proved
injustices.
Meantime Australian manufacturers, and
more particularly their employees, ought
to realise that they are having a chance
better in some respects than they are likely
to get again for very many years if this one
is thrown away. It is not the price of new
Australian manufactures so much as their
quality of which primary producers com-
plain. The defect seems to be due to that
inferiority complex which afflicts so many
of us—a dread of being thought “a boss’s
man” if we do the very best work or pro-
duce the best article of which we are
capable, and go all out in the process. We
do not take enough pride in our work—most
of us are ashamed to; from somewhere or
other we have got the strange notion that
our work is something we shouldn’t be
proud of, and that the Trades Hall wouldn’t
like us to be proud of it. But this is a
matter of simple bread and butter, and we
dare not listen to such folly. We are losing
jobs to-day because some of the work we
have turned out has been disgracefully un-
even, and our customers have been driven
to go to the foreigner—and, incidentally,
curse the high tariff which has protected the
bad workmanship and made the price of the
good a burden.
THESE RIDICULOUS ELECTIONS!
Mr. Lyons replaced Mr. Latham; and the
average Nationalist nodded his head and
said he was sorry to see Latham superseded,
but of course Lyons could make a more
popular appeal. Then we prepared for an
election, and how did we do it? We went
round screaming at the top of our voices;
candidates almost fought over wireless
microphones; they were rushed' over the
continent in airships; a million poles were
plastered with a million calls to vote for
Smith or Jones or Brown. In theory, at
any rate, this, like every other election,
was held to get true representatives of the
people into Parliament. Certain candidates
held certain opinions, and the question for
the public to decide was which set of
opinions they liked best. It was, or was
supposed to be, a matter of calm judgment.
What, then, was all this hullabaloo about —
this screeching of personalities; this placard-
ing the landscape with the names of Jones
and Brown and Smith, with or without a
“1” after them?
Yet, good or bad, wise or foolish, it all
apparently counts for something.. Young
Mr. Clasby carries through a colossal cam-
paign in the district once sacred to Mr.
Ward. He wears his throat thin at a
hundred street corners; he is a whirlwind
passing through the electorate, stirring it to
the very roots. He wins the Homeric fight,
and within a few hours is in the midst
of another—this time for his life, after a
cerebral haemorrhage. Young Mr. Cowper
puts up such a willing performance against
Billy Hughes that the old campaigner
warmly compliments him, and the party
leaders mark him down for another nomina-
tion. In the same district young Mr.
Nelson is so voluble, can make so many
speeches in one night, can fashion such
subtle appeals that his opponents l'egret so
promising a young man is in the wrong
political stable—and crook their finger
accordingly.
The results are very far-reaching. The
average business man, the average student,
seeing the sort of campaign through which
the successful man apparently must pass,
stands back aghast. The mentality, as well
as the training and experience of such men,
entirely unfits them for such a contest.
Pitted against Mr. Ward or Mr. Beasley
it is probable that Professor MacCallum
or E. C. Riddle would be a hopeless and
pathetic failure.
There might be something in all this
ridiculous screaming, all this defacement of
a million poles, if it were necessary to rouse
the people, to interest them sufficiently to
get them to the ballot-box. Most modern
advertising aims at creating desires as well
as suggesting where those desires can be
satisfied. But here the customer is assured;
he has to cast his vote for somebody, just as
surely as the man in the jury-box has to
say either guilty or not guilty. What should
we think if our political methods were applied
to the deliberations of a jury? Picture it—
the jury turned out to consider its verdict
overnight; counsel (and others) darting out
to roar their arguments and exhortations
from every street corner; every hoarding
and every post shouting “Make it guilty
and save your city” or “Don’t trust the
police—say not guilty.” Yet a vote at the
ballot-box is just as important as a vote
in the juryroom; and it ought to be come
to in very much the same fashion.
Men have tried here and there to limit
the extravagance of elections by fixing a
maximum amount to be spent by a candi-
date. Such a law almost everywhere is
evaded; and, anyhow, it only half realises
what is the matter. There being no need
to bring electors to the poll where voting
is compulsory, all the brass band and other
circus aids and trimmings ought to be
cut out. The candidate should have the right
to issue only an early printed statement of
his policy and a final appeal. There is
some doubt whether he should be permitted
to hold a public meeting at all. If he
should be, it ought to be an official busi-
ness, as decorous as a Court trial, and under
the same strict limitations. The immediate
result should be an enormous improvement
in the quality of the candidates, the loud
mouth and the vacant mind giving place to
the full mind and the sound judgment.
It would be worth trying, at any rate.
EXCHANGE AND THE FARMER.
The Bank of N. S. Wales has at any rate
the courage of its general manager’s con-
victions. Twelve months ago Mr. Davidson
decided that Australia would be best served
by a great rise in our rate of exchange.
For very many years we had been paying
no more than £lOl in Australia for £lOO
in London; sometimes, if we had abundant
loan and other money in London, we got
less even than par. Then borrowing over-
seas ceased, and at the same time our
staple exports fell terribly in value. There
was soon an urgent call for money in
London to pay our interest and other bills.
Gradually the rate moved up to £lO6, the
maximum during 1930. By the end of that
year the Scullin Government had begun its
very effective policy of reducing imports,
and thus diminishing the demand for funds
in London. It is quite possible that no
other measure beyond this and the balanc-
ing of the budgets would have been neces-
sary to regain and preserve our balance
abroad. But those in control of the Bank
of N. S. Wales had other ideas; and, break-
ing away from the associated banks, they
ran the exchange rate up to £l3O. It stood
at that throughout almost the whole of
last year, notwithstanding the great im-
provement in our trade position; and when
in the last days of December the Com-
monwealth Bank decided to lower the rate
to £125, there was an angry outburst from
the heads of Mr. Davidson’s great insti-
tution, followed during the last few days
by the issue of some “Notes on the Aus-
tralian Position, December, 1931.” This
booklet, one of a series, is a plea, not quite
for the permanent devaluation of the Aus-
tralian £, but for maintaining a high ex-
change rate. “An attempt,” it says, “to
force the value of the Australian currency
into parity with sterling would be disastrous
for all.”
“Price levels stated in gold have every-
where fallen to a catastrophic degree,”
these spokesmen for a depreciated currency
say. “So far from bringing stability, an
attempt to return to parity would throw
down the defence of Australia against fall-
ing prices.” It would be interesting to
know what defence we have against falling
prices. Certainly a high exchange rate is no
defence. Such a rate brings us not one
farthing more for our season’s wool or
wheat. All it does is to penalise other
members of the Australian community in
order to pay a bonus to the exporters of
wool and wheat. The price Australia gets
is not affected in the smallest degree. We
are told that what we want—what the world
wants—is neither inflation nor deflation, but
stability. But you don’t get stability by
such mere make-believe and pretence as
this. It would be just as reasonable to say
that stability has been reached in wages
in N. S. Wales because when a man falls
out of employment the dole is available for
him. For the dole is a temporary premium,
too, payable by the rest of the community.
Surely we have had enough of these sub-
terfuges and evasions. The position is very
plain. The markets in which we have to
sell our products are very low. Instead,
however, of facing that fact—a fact over
which we have not the smallest control—
we attempt to get round it by pretending
that we are receiving more, and making up
what we don’t get from our customers by
extracting it, more or less surreptitiously,
from the taxpayer (who has to buy money
in London to meet interest) and every
person who brings goods to Australia, no
matter what their nature. The straight-
forward way would be to attack costs. But
“No,” they tell us, “that would only invite
opposition. Let us, instead, debase the
money in which we pay the men their
wages.” In some circles that would be called
the confidence trick.
And the amazing thing is that this
scheme is proposed by people, bankers,
economists or whatnot, who scarcely trouble
to cloak their abhorrence of Protection.
One of the ways of reducing costs, they
tell us, is “lessened tariff protection”—
Costs due to the tariff have been increased by
prohibitions, embargoes and excessive duties. Reduced
duties may be counted upon to lessen the prices of
some imports and of some locally produced com-
modities now excessively protected.
Actually, what a 130 exchange rate does is
to impose on every single article imported
to Australia a super-Customs duty of some-
thing over 30 p.c. And that is the gift
which these Freetrade friends of the farmers
propose to make them!
Yet to this extent the advocates of a
depreciated Australian £ are right: on
account of the shortage of gold in Aus-
tralia we do need to build up a strong posi-
tion in London. To that' end two things in
particular are called for: (1) A steady
reduction of all costs, so that lowered wages
will be worth as much as the high wages
are to-day, with a consequent increase of
production for export; (2) a firm, restrain-
ing hand upon imports. That restraint
should, however, be intelligent. As Pro-
fessor Shann and his collaborators in this
booklet say, tariff schedules should be over-
hauled. But you cannot overhaul a tariff
schedule imposed by an exchange rate.
That knows no exceptions whatever; every
tool of trade required by the farmer,
whether it can possibly be made here or
not, is subject to this duty. And the
farmer pays it. Far better, if the primary
industries must have their temporary pre-
miums and bonuses, to collect the money
with intelligence and not in this haphazard
fashion, regardless of the damage it does in
the process.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pessimism.
Bkgau.se I snatched a pebble from the way,
And thought it priceless, till the day my
eyes
Filled with a clearer light, and knew my
prize
Was worthless, poorer than the common
clay—■
Because of this shall I go clamoring
“Behold, there are no diamonds! and say
“Look as ye may, ye find but pebbles ? Nay!
Soul, thou wert blind to do so weak a
thing.
n.s.w. Spindrift.
♦
The Hopeless Hundred Thousand.
Of the working population of Aus \ralia
there are 100,000 at least who will not
recover the jobs they had before D3O.
These are men whose employment was
dependent upon the boom conditions then
prevailing. Of the total number, probably
one-half were engaged directly or indirectly
on Government construction works; the
balance are men who were in private
employ, but whose jobs disappeared when
the boom burst—men most of them in some
way connected with luxury lines, many of
them clerks and salesmen. The return of
normal conditions will find the great bulk
of these victims of the collapse of the high-
price and easy-money bubble still at a
loose end. Further, the return of normal
conditions must be accompanied by econo-
mies in operating public services, which be-
came absurdly overmanned during the boom
years. For these, too, provision will have
to be made; indeed, until it is made there
will be a strong disinclination to make those
economies which the indispensable reduc-
tion of the cost of government requires.
So long as the dole lasts, these people
can at least exist, their poor receipts eked
out by those pathetic shifts to which the
more energetic now turn. But the dole is
a burden upon industry at a time when it
is in great need of relief. The real task
before us, therefore, is to find, not the
dole for men, but ways of taking men off
the dole.
Australia is as well fitted as any country
to quickly absorb people into self-support-
ing employment. We have abundance of
land now put to little use which is capable
of at least maintaining them. Thousands
of our farmers have shown us with how
very little money the man on the land
can live. A settlement equipped with
a few pigs and cows and fowls, and with
abundance of vegetables, could be two-
thirds self-supporting within a few months.
It may be a poor life, but it is a healthy
life and a better life than the majority of
these men can ever reach in their present
conditions. In any case, there is no hope
that thousands can be self-supporting for
years to come except in such settlements.
The objection is offered that most un-
emploved would.prefer to take their chances
of picking up a job in the cities, where
hitherto jobs have been easiest to get.
But once these settlements were established
the dole could be automatically withdrawn
except for the purpose of supplementing


the earnings of the settlers, if necessary;
and every settlement would become a depot
from which labor would be drawn to man
ordinary industry as its requirements grew.
Inevitably those requirements would grow
in proportion as the burden of maintaining
the present army of wholly unproductive
unemployed was removed from it. We have
reached the stage where every employer of
five men is paying for the support of some-
thing like seven. Industry cannot flourish
in such circumstances; costs cannot come
down, as they should; and in the last
resort high costs have to be borne by the
overburdened primary industries.
What has to be kept in mind is that if
we got back to normal conditions within
two years—and that is a very great deal
to hope for with the world Tn its present
state and our markets so unpromising—we
would still have to provide for 100,000 men
whose jobs were due to abnormal condi-
tions. We have got to tide these men over
this most difficult period; they or an equal
number of other men whose places they
will take in normal industry. And even the
men whom normal industry may absorb
within perhaps two years ought to be re-
lieved of the dreadful uncertainty which
they now face—the dreadful uncertainty
whether normal conditions will return
within two years and whether the dole can
be maintained until normal industry is re-
established. A succession of bad seasons
would make it extremely improbable.
Trades Hall Tyranny.
■ This statement, properly attested, shows
how much freedom is left in N. S. Wales
under Trades Hall rule: —
I, Charles W. Fearn, native of England, am a
vvoodcarver, of a family of three generations of crafts-
men, lately of the firm of Joseph Fearn, woodcarvers
and chairmakers, of Curtain-road, London, established
over 100 years, and closed in 1915 owing to the
war. I came to Australia with my wife in 1921;
\ve paid our passage and placed £IOO in the Com-
monwealth Bank. On arrival I went to Mr. F.
Bartholomew, of Beard Watson’s, George-street,
Sydney, as he had done business with our firm in
London and knew of me. Mr. Bartholomew gave
me an introduction to Mr. G. R. Halcombe, table-
maker, of Newtown, Sydney. ' I took my English
trade-union card' (Carvers’ branch, scale A) to the
Furniture Trade Union, was joined up as a member
and was given permission to work for Mr. Halcombe,
with whom I remained for nearly three years.
When I left Mr. Halcombe, the trade union did
not offer me work, and I rvas not allowed to find
. it for myself. Several months went on and I began
to think I was being kept out of a job purposely,
but I could not help myself. Then I was offered a
carpentering job at Newcastle. I took it and it
lasted two years. I came back to Sydney, hoping
Mr. O. Schrieber (our union sec.) rvould novv do
better for me, as trade was booming. He kept me
at the Trades Hall for several weeks, never offering
me anything. Then he gave me a few days here
and a few days there. Months thus went on. Then
he sent me to the Century Upholstering Co.,
Parrainatta-road, C'amperdown, as a chairmaker. I
worked there for over two years. All the time I
■ was begging Mr. Schrieber to give me a better job;
but 1 did not dare throw up what I had as 1 knew
if I did he would not give me an O.K. card for
another. Mr. Schrieber kept promising, but never
did anything. In 1928 the timber strike started and
I rvas soon put off owing to shortage of timber.
For seven months I did nothing; so I went to New
Zealand. Trade was slack there, but I put in four
months’ work during the..six months I was there.
The timber strike over, I came back to Sydney
and went to the Trades Hall again. I Was-given
permission to interview the Century Upholstering Co.,
where I last worked. They had installed a carving
machine during the strike, so I was not needed.
I still attended the Trades Hall every day, but being
given nothing.to do I went to see Mi - . Halcombe,
my first employer, at Newtown. He offered me a
job on special English carving. I took my tools
and went to the Trades Union for my O.K. card. I
saw Mr. Archer (ass. sec. Furniture Trade Union).
He asked me for all particulars and I supplied them.
He then told me I could not have an O.K. card, as I
had broken the union rule by asking for work. I
pressed for my O.K. card, but was told I must stand
down. That, happened in February, 1930. My tools
are still at Mr. Halcombe’s; I have never since
been allowed to take a job. I have not touched
work in Australia since the timber strike of October,
1928. I have never been allowed to work at my
trade of woodcarving since 1924. I know I am a
skilled workman. Yet my wages as a member of
the Furniture Trade Union for eight years have
averaged only £2 per week, mainly because of the
refusal of the union to allow me to work or to
myself look for work.
♦
The Adelaide Plan.
So many honest people in N. S. Wales
have been kicking the Lang “plan” into the
gutter that the assistance they have received
from South Aus. is in danger of being over-
looked. South Aus.—Adelaide in particular
—really started the good work. L'ang-
planners feel so angry about Adelaide that
it isn’t. safe to mention the place in their
presence.
Yet they had great hopes of Adelaide a
few months ago. The S. Aus. Labor party,
like Caesar’s Gaul, is divided into three
parts; and the smallest part, being in want
of funds and supposing that the Lang-
planners had plenty, invited those gentry
to come across and help it. Adelaide, it
asserted, was ripe for conversion to the
“plan.” It was as full of contempt as Lang
himself for that “iniquitous” thing “the
sanctity of the written contract,” and looked
forward to the day when the emancipation
of the masses would be effected by cheating
their creditors.
The invitation was eagerly accepted. A
plague of Sydney politicians descended upon
Adelaide. One Collaton, a gentleman who
referred in every other sentence to “Mr.
Lang, my leader,” was put up for the Adel-
aide Assembly by-election. The Hill Gov-
ernment, which, with nearly all its followers,
had been expelled by the bosses of the
party organisation, did not run a candi-
date; neither did the Liberals; and the
Lang-planner got in on a 25 p.c. poll. T°
The Bulletin it seemed that the Liberals
could have won the seat easily, and it was
puzzled at their inaction and that of the
non-voting majority; but Adelaide knew
what it was about.
Back came the Sydney politicians, im-
mensely pleased with themselves, and gratu-
itously prophetic. They had planted the
standard of the Lang plan in the soberest
of the States; soon all Australia would
swindle the bondholder and live happily
ever after. Another vacancy occurring in
one of the Adelaide seats in the Leg.
Council, there was a blackguard rush of
politicians from Sydney to assist in organis-
ing victory and share in it. Six of Lang s
Ministers headed the invasion. Adelaide,
gazing on these persons and noting that
time seemed no object to any of them,
wondered what they were paid for, but said
nothing. Other spreaders of the gospel
of interest default were Messrs. Ward,
Eldridge and Lazzarini, three of the five
Lang-Beasley M’s.H.R. To their vast sur-
prise, and that of the six Ministers and of
the “Labor Daily,” which had gone to the
expense of having longwinded speeches pro-
mising an easy triumph telegraphed every
day, the Lang-planner was badly beaten.
But worse was to come. When the Com-
monwealth Parliament was dissolved, an-
other mission, headed by Attorney-General
Lamaro, hurried to South Australia to con-
duct the Lang-planners to the success which
had somehow been missed in the Leg.
Council by-election. In a few days it was
back in Sydney, saying that things in Adel-
aide were not quite what it had expected
to find them, and it could do better work
for the Boss at home. In point of fact the
Lang “organisation” had been discovered
to consist of a few dejected windbags, and
the outlook in South Australia was obvi-
ously hopeless. A business-like Emergency
Committee had taken charge of the cam-
paign for the Lyons-Latham party; even
Makin, the Speaker, was being hard pressed
in Hindmai-sh; and the Lang plan was
well on the way to the sewer. A Lang-
plan candidate who saw what was coming
contrived to be too late with his nomina-
tion for Boothby, and saved £25. Not so a
Lang-planner who thought he could win
Adelaide and another who hoped to cap-
ture Hindmarsh. Both lost their deposits.
There has been nothing queerer in the
history of the movement than this effort
to establish Sydney mob politics in the City
of Churches. From first to last it cost the
Sydney Trades Hall a good deal of money;
and the thought that all that money and
all that oratory were : expended to no pur-
pose rankles in what Lang-planners are
pleased to call their minds. Bitterer still
is the feeling, which must have pierced
even the self-complacency of Davidson, the
Minister of No-Works, that Adelaide was
laughing at them all the time. In short,
the Lang plan came up against an Adel-
aide plan, which was to pull the legs of the
vain and presumptuous blatherskites from
Sydney ; and the Adelaide plan succeeded
perfectly.
—— ♦
The Coming N. S. Wales Election.
The members of the party whose job it
is to save N. S. Wales from destruction by
the Trades Hall and Soviet forces have
begun to organise for the election which
cannot be much longer prevented. Fortu-
nately they have the recent Federal contest
to guide them in the choice of candidates,
where candidates must be chosen. The men
who won the great successes in December
were active young business men or farmers
who had proved themselves either in the war
or since. The seal of war-time success was
accepted much more widely than the appa-
rent neglect of the returned soldier would
lead us to look for.
The N. S. Wales Assembly is filled with
old gentlemen who have for the most part
served their country many years, and have
no reason to be proud of the condition in
which they now find it. Nor will the plea
that the other fellow did it avail. None
of the old political parties stood out of that
drunken orgy which landed the State where
it is. It may be that of recent years the
Labor party, in the hands of men'who have
betrayed it, has accelerated the pace; but
no Administration known to N. S. Wales
for a quarter-century past has been guilt-
less in this matter.
No retiring member whose membership
goes back beyond the last election has there-
fore a prima facie case for selection; on the
contrary, the position is that he ought to
show cause why he should not be thrown out
for participation in past mismanagement.
It was because of the strength of that idea
at the back of the public’s mind that the
young men were so extraordinarily success-
ful in December.
The next Parliament will have a harder
task than any of its predecessors ever
faced. The fight will, make tremendous
demands on vigor and courage; it will
require severance from most of the associ-
ations of the past; it will be work specially
suited to new men and young men. To the
old man is properly the task of conserving
what has been won; to the young man
the gaining of new ground and the harder
fighting often required to regain ground that
has been lost. The Leg. Council is and
ought to remain our Chamber of old men;
there was never such urgent need of the
vigor and courage of youth in the Leg.
Assembly.
In the circumstances, the veterans of the
party will save their friends a great deal
of embarrassment if they take the hint so
pointedly given by the recent Federal elec-
tion and join in the movement to fill their
own places with younger men.
The Animal and His Spots.
Earle Page has explained in a more con-
fused way than ever why he insisted on
having the Customs portfolio in the Federal
Cabinet. That portfolio, as he intended to
use it, was to be employed for the “thank-
less and difficult job” of “taking the plums
out of the mouths of some of the manu-
facturers where the Labor Government had
put them to the detriment of the general
community.” Unless he gets this portfolio,
with a free hand to upset the policy of
the Cabinet, he apparently reserves the right
to throw in his party’s lot with the Com-
munists. As he points out, the position will
be precarious because “a very small cave
will be necessary to upset the Government.
When the Bruce-Page Ministry com-
mitted suicide in 1929 the Scullidore
Cabinet proceeded to do, rather clumsily,
exactly the things which Bruce and Page
would otherwise have had to do. Bruce-
Page had gone mad and had come to a
dead-end in the dreadful year when it
borrowed £54,000,000 and didn’t know what
to do next. The Scullidores were up against
the bleak necessity of cutting over
£60,000,000 a year off the country’s deranged
imports, just as Bruce-Page would have had
to do. ’The fact that the opportunity was
left to a herd of Bolsheviks with disreput-
able associates at Moscow was an unquali-
fied misfortune. A worse misfortune is that
Page threatens to break up the Cabinet
unless the one good thing which the Sculli-
dores did is undone.
The threat to take “the plums out of the
mouths of some of the manufacturers where
the Labor Government had put them” is a
strange sample of prejudice and ignorance.
The sensational increases in factory wage
rates was rather a case of robbing the
manufacturer than of enriching him or of
“putting plums in his mouth.” He has to
pay about twice the wages that he paid
at the end of the war-time. Crazy tax-
collectors and spendthrifts like Hughes and
Page and Lang advertised themselves by
the easy and far-from-courageous policy of
watching wages go up, and of borrowing
until the national credit was a wreck to
force them up still higher. Now the Page
theory is that the manufacturer, with new
taxes piled thick upon him as a result of
Page finance, is a bloatedly affluent person
who is a fair mark for further robbery!
+
Ministers Send Up Kites.
Some of the news from Canberra is not
reassuring. Word came the other day that
amalgamation of departments was being
considered; and that was a reform much
overdue, for the multiplication of depart-
ments, making easy the multiplication of
officials, has been one of the great scandals
of all the Federal Administrations since the
days of William Hughes. Between 1920 and
1928 Federal expenditure moved in this
ruinous way:—
1920. 1928.
Governor-General . . £27,215 £27,366
Parliament . . • • 348,315 419,930
Prime Minister . . , 312,408 1,676,115
Attorney-General . . 111,007 231,697
Treasury .. .. 5,829,504 11,246,349
Trade and Customs . . 992,142 2,002,145
Defence . . • ■ 2,912,639 4,185,819
PMG .. .. 6,136,920 12,392,976
• ...000, S 228,918
Home and Territories.. 478,281 1 496,074
\ 122 890
Works and Railways.. 714,196 | 996,768
Health . . . . . . 374,337
Markets . . • • 319,542
£17,862,627 £34,720,926
But the explanation of the most important
of the proposed amalgamations is, not that
the Government is determined to reduce the
bloated expenditure by one-half, but that
Canberra may be better handled. Further,
according to the “Argus”:—
Mr. Parkhill, Minister for Home Affairs, has
stated that the Ministry will press on with the
development of Canberra as soon as this is prac-
ticable.
It is mentioned that “a great deal of work
has been done in the last two and a half
years, and is being done now, in designing
buildings which have not been constructed
by the Government.” In other words, the
staff is ridiculously over-manned, and has
been diligently nosing around for jobs to
fill in time—a position which exists in practi-
cally every public service in Australia.
Well, the people have had about enough
of it. The recent election was a clear and
definite protest against the old tradition of
“working in” with the public service, which
has been one of the most fruitful causes
of extravagance. Australia cannot afford
a Federal service as expensive even as it
maintained in 1920; and, as shown above,
the cost in 1920 was only 17 millions, as
compared with the prodigious 34 millions to
which it had grown in 1928. And we
cannot afford to proceed with what is called
the development of Canberra. The atro-
cious waste already committed there is
quite enough for one generation.
Another Scrap of Paper?
At the end of 1930 the Scullin Govern-
ment put through a bill providing for a
bounty of £1 per fine ounce on gold won
in excess of the average production for
the three years 1928, 1929 and 1930. Pay-
ment was to be made in Australian cur-
rency for ten years, commencing Jan. 1,
1931. Six months later, under the Financial
Emergency Act, the bounty was reduced
to 10s. per fine ounce from July 1, 1931,
with a proviso for an increase of Is. per
fine ounce for every fall of 3 per cent, in
the rate of exchange; the £1 per tine ounce
was to hold good for the first six months
of 1931. Production (odd ounces omitted)
amounted to 457.000 fine ounces in 1928,
427,000 in 1929 and 466,000 in 1930, so the
three-year average was 450,000 fine ounces.
There was a very substantial increase m
1931. After six months of the bounty
period Victoria reported an output of
19,581 fine ounces, as compared with 10,973
fine ounces for the first six months of 1930,
and this increase was maintained for the
second half of the year. In Westralia there
was a leap from 416,000 fine ounces in 1930
to 510,000 fine ounces in 1931, and if faith
is kept with the industry there is every
prospect of a further advance in 1932. The
bounty is not wholly responsible, but it has
greatly helped. Before it was seriously
considered the Westralian output steadily
declined from 437,000 fine ounces in 1926 to
408,000 in 1927, to 393,000 in 1928, to
377,000 in 1929. It is significant that the
decline was arrested in the year in which
the bounty received legislative sanction.
The Australian Parliament has had a good
deal of experience of bounties. Never
before has the mere undertaking to pay
one been followed, as in this case, by ex-
tensive investment of capital—in the
development of existing mines and the re-
opening of old ones—the employment of
a couple of thousand men, an immediate
increase in production (and that of a com-
modity every ounce of which can be sold
abroad at a critical time) and the promise
of a greater increase still.
But now, before a penny of the bounty
has been paid, the cry has been raised that
it should not be paid at all. The excuse
given is that the price of gold has gone
up since Britain went off the gold stan-
dard, and that this was not contemplated
when the bounty was agreed to. True
enough, but the industry may surely be
allowed this stroke of luck, which may be
only temporary. It had no luck at all dur-
ing the 20 years prior to the passing of
the Bounty Bill. During those years it
saw costs and taxes rise and profits disap-
pear, and had to look on helplessly. Last
year the Commonwealth squandered on
the construction and repair of State roads,
for which it should never have provided a
penny, more than 20 times as much as will
be required to pay the bounty for 1931,
even at the rate originally promised for
the first six months. If the Bounty Act
is treated as a scrap of paper those W est-
ralians who have hitherto been loyal to
the Commonwealth will despair of it. Do
Federal politicians also consider that they
have a right to violate contracts when the
contracts have become —or seem to have
become —inconvenient? The new Govern-
ment, the new Parliament, ought to leave
that sort of thing to Lang.
Small Sister’s Wireless Service.
Wireless broadcasting has added another
“disability” to Tasmania’s already formid-
able bundle, in that it gives Melbourne
radio-dominance over all the northern end
of the island. Reception of Victorian
stations, both A and B class, is uniformly
good there, night and day, while the
Hobart A-class station, 7ZL, is practically
impossible by day and very indifferent at
night. In most Tasmanian townships, as
far south as a line drawn from Bicheno on
the east to Mt. Bischoff on the west, one
hears Melbourne talking all day long. So
far as social, sporting (s.-p. betting on Vic.
races of all sizes is prevalent in Tas.
villages), and commercial wireless publicity
is concerned, the capital city of the top
half of Tasmania is Melbourne, not Hobart.
The A-class station at the Speck capital,
which is officially supposed to supply the
Australian-standard service for which Tas.
licensed listeners pay their 245. a year, fails
to adequately cover more than half the
Speck’s territory with the official pro-
gramme. This is due partly to the fact
that, until lately, obsolete equipment has
been foisted on Tasmania, and partly (per-
haps principally) because the transmitting
station is jambed up against Mt. Welling-
ton. A mildly polite agitation for the
removal of 7ZL to a spot in the midlands,
whence, according to experts, the whole
State could be covered, has persisted for
years, but successive Commonwealth Gov-
ernments have always managed to keep the
proposal “under consideration.”
The Confidence Trick.
From W. M. Fleming, who was himself
an M.H.R. once:—
Let us have unity. United we retain our seats.
If we are divided they will go to the other fellows.
Let us have unity. When we have won we can
divide the spoil. Then it will not matter what
the people think or say, for they again will be at
our mercy. We will be in the saddle for another
three years.
The high-minded and patriotic as well as the
ordinary citizens who are interested in the welfare
of Australia are sick of us and our ways. We
know that they neither like nor trust us. But
they fear the other side, and fear is a great mover
of masses. It is the most easily-worked weakness
of human nature. When all else fails it can be
used with efiect. Let us use it.
There is a growing feeling amongst the people
that they should be allowed to choose their own
men. It is dangerous to us. Money is on our side,
for money is even more susceptible to fear than are
the masses. First we shall still further frighten
money. Then we will scare the people. After which
we shall call aloud, “Trust us, we will restore con-
fidence and all will be well.” Thus we can create
confidence in us for long enough to win the elec-
tions —and that is what matter's. t
So it was done.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
•
ff _ GEORG E JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
„ . .. London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
. Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Rings
11l
£2O
*25
Tlu: diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are .still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
I 16 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
For tire first five months of the financial
year exports paid for imports and very
nearly for interest on the dead-horse
foreign debt. It is now believed that the
year will end without our country having
got further into debt. The position really
looks better, provided no demented states-
man gets a hearing with the idea that Aus-
tralia ought to import a lot more, and float
more loans, and go mad again. There are
actually people who don’t see that the days
of the old loan swindle are done with. They
call themselves Freetraders mostly, and pro-
fess to be followers of British precedents,
and they turn up in all manner of unex-
pected places. Their general idea is that the
foreign article should be bought if it is
cheaper, even if we can’t pay for it.
The Old Man in London knocked
£180,916,000 off his imports in 1931 as com-
pared with 1930, and £176,790,000 in 1930
as compared with 1929. Now he proposes,
under his new tariff, to begin knocking in
real earnest. He discovered that he was
buying more than his exports and the income
from his foreign investments would pay for,
and he scrapped his Freetrade notions rather
than start raising outside loans, as the Com-
monwealth docs, to make ends meet. The
income from his foreign investments had
fallen off lamentably, and he proceeded to
face the emergency.
The Hogans have, after all, euchred the
Vic. Leg. Council over unemployment-relief
legislation, jued by H. I. Cohen, the Council
insisted upon pay for relief work being below
the basic wage. Now Jones, as deputy for
Hogan, announces that the unspent £540,000
of the £1,468,000 authorised for 1931-32 will
all be required for “sustenance.”
Certain people who have been blowing
other people up have explained that they are
Communists, which is probably a lie, but
it is taken for granted that the plea will
be good for a reduced sentence. The new
Federal Ministry rather inclines to the
idea that it should carry an assurance of
an increased sentence. If a murderous
offender assures the Court that he isn’t and
never was a Communist, and that the worst
charge that can be laid against him is that
of being a ferocious brute, it should tell a
little in his favor, though it might take a
good while for the position to be understood.
Queensland has elected a Labor Senator
for the first time since 1914. In fact it has
elected three: Gordon Brown, J. S. Codings
and J. V. MacDonald. MacDonald, a Labor
journalist, was in the Senate for a few
months after John Adamson’s death in 1922,
and again after Tom Givens went aloft in
1928; in each year he was appointed by
the Leg. Assembly and rejected by the
people. During the 14 years of State Labor
rule (1915-29) there were five Senate
elections, and in 1925 the total Labor vote
(160,016) was 54,613 behind the total
Nationalist vote; yet at the State election,
same franchise, a few months later Labor
won hands down. Which shows what
miracles can be performed by a resolute
minority with its own electoral machinery.
“Mr. Lang, the defaulting Premier, who burst the
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank, and who chooses
for intimates importations who have threatened Aus-
tralia with a bloody revolution, has caused proceed-
ings to be taken against the leader of the New
Guard for the alleged use of ‘insulting words.’”
“Forget those speeches we made after Roth-
bury, Constable, and have a cut at
that capitalist, for my sake. He’s saying
nasty things about me.”
With a general election due in May the
Queensland Government does not intend to
have a by-election for the Dalby seat, ren-
dered vacant by the death of W. A. Russell.
In any case Dalby is one of the electo-
rates doomed by the redistribution com-
mittee. It is next door to Premier Moore’s
own constituency of Aubigny, and Moore
has undertaken to look after the interests
of the folk inhabiting it.
Twenty-one British schoolboys have been
on a brief visit to Australia, with a British
schoolmaster to show them around, and it
is said that two of them have resolved to
come back here later and pursue the wily
sheep. Pursuit of the wily shirt in a fac-
tory, to say nothing of the surreptitious sock,
should also be considered. So should a
whole lot of things which supply the farmer
with customers, however much the leader of
the Country party may hate to have them
mentioned.
The political and industrial wings of Vic.
Labor have agreed on one question—-that
the annual conference should be held at the
end of January instead of at Easter—but
it may be the only one. A big bid for the
upper hand will be made by the out-and-
outers, who call themselves “industrialists,”
with strong support from the railwaymen's
union. It is unlikely that Premier Ilogan
will be back from his northern health trip
and Jones may keep in the background.
Minister Cain, who seemed likely to lead the
“industrialists” 15 months ago, has shot his
bolt.
“Senator Pearce, who has been a politician for
31 years and a Minister for 19, declares that
Hinkler and Kingsford Smith are over the age for
Air Force appointments. They are half his age.”
“My dear Hinkler, my dear Smithy, you
can’t expect me to make room for you
under the plum-tree because you’ve
flown the Atlantic, and little things like
that. You’re too old!”
Bulimba, represented by Mrs, Longman,
is to be lopped under the Queensland
redistribution scheme; the commissioners
recommend the transfer of 3000-odd
Bulimba electors to Maree. The alteration
will endanger the seat, but Mrs. Longman
won’t listen to suggestions, made by people
who have been impressed with her work in
Parliament, that she should look for some-
thing easier. Nationalist precedent is against
her getting a second term ; Mrs. Cowan lasted
only one Parliament in Westralia and Miss
Preston-Stanley in N. S. Wales. Still. Miss
Holman, Labor M.L.A. for Forrest (W.A ),
has succeeded where those ladies failed.
The "Worker” reminds Ely, Lang’s Minis-
ter of Health, that at the end of August
lie took credit to himself and party for hav-
ing prevented the appointment of A E
Hamilton, “manager of the so-called Co-op.
Dairy Farmers’ Milk Co., which is con-
trolled by the Onslow group,” as chairman
:~. avm s Milk Board. And it reminds
McGirr, Lang’s Minister of Local Govern-
ment, that he also pitched into A. E. Hamil-
ton, saying that “Hamilton sits on the Milk
Board, as distributors’ representative, “and
listens to the evidence of unfortunate
farmers who owe the Onslow group money.”
Yet Minister Ely has “appointed the same
Mr. Hamilton chairman of his own Milk
a ! ld McGirr approved.
A A hy ? asks the “Worker” in a thunderous
lone; but no reply has been forthcoming.
Possibly Ely and McGirr have been called
away to Adelaide to expound the Lang plan.
Queensland has been putting through a lot
° f 4 11,1 °rm rUS T 1 7 e • pu l b ! i r c works at reasonable
cost. The Barjool-Marmor water service is
a case m point; it was undertaken 011 the
settlers agreeing to repay principal and in-
terest on the instalment plan, and the rich
agricultural settlement is now independent of
dry weather. The Government has under
consideration a much larger scheme in the
Boonah district, which the McCormack Gov-
ernment had in mind a few years ago. The
cost then was prohibitive, but the job has
become practicable now that toilers are
realising that the loan-drunk days are gone
for ever.
A son of A. B. Piddington, the N.S.W.
Industrial Court Judge, has issued a rather
condemnatory report about the treatment of
aborigines in the Far North of Australia.
He is a B.A. and spent two years in research
work of some kind at or near Broome. He
finds that the police are “biased,” the Home
Affairs Department is ignorant and the
Westralian Government is indifferent.
Women, he says, have been known to be
swapped for drink, or to have swapped them-
selves for drink. The worst plague spot in
the land is around the Kimberley district,
but young Piddington hasn’t been‘there and
only knows its horrors by repute. It is
difficult, he says, to obtain evidence of what-
ever it is because so many white men are
implicated in whatever it may be, but he
once knew of a native being struck by a
white man. Evidently the blood of the
Piddingtons is up.
Vic. Country Roads Board has forced the
removal of unsightly advertising hoardings
on or near highways. Not only did these
horrors spoil the scenery; some of them
were a positive danger because they
obstructed the view of car-drivers at intersec-
tions and curves. A Hogan bill limiting the
powers of the Roads Board by making the
consent of the Governor-in-Council necessary
to by-laws governing the regulation of hoard-
ings and advertising signs was tossed out by
the Leg. Council. In some parts the frame-
work of hoardings still cumbers the ground,
but the board (McCormack, Fricke and
Dale) is insisting upon demolition.
Vic. Nats, talk of making a tremendous
effort to wrest the St. Kilda seat from Bur-
nett Gray. They aver that Gray might as
well be a Laborite as a “Liberal” who sits
011 the left and supports the Hogans on all
vital issues. But if elections were fought
in Victoria in the same spirit as they were
when Service, Berry and Gillies were leaders,
Menzies, president of the Nat. Fed., would
leave his safe seat at Nunawading and fight
Gray to a finish. There is no talk of that.
Finland, after 12 years’ experience of the
blessings of Prohibition, has decided that
they aren’t blessings at all; a referendum
showed a AVet majority of nearly three
to one. Uncle Sam has also had exactly
12 years of Prohibition, qualified in his case
by bootlegging on a vast scale, and what the
verdict would be if the question were sub-
mitted to the people is hard to say. But it
is the woman’s vote that is generally relied
on to make or keep countries and districts
dry, and it is significant that in Finland
this counts for more than elsewhere. The
little country claims to have been the first
in the world to concede womanhood suffrage
and representation, and about the only one
where no public agitation was necessary to
establish political equality between the sexes.
There will be scant comfort for American
Drys in the Finland poll.
Though they like their chances at the
Queensland State election, the Labor people
up that way are ca’ing canny. At the State
convention in Brisbane the most elaborate
precautions were taken to prevent anything
like a Communist showing up, and the reso-
lutions passed were almost nervously non-
committal. Someone did say something
“Mr. Forgan (‘Foghorn’) Smith, leader of the
State Opposition, caused a socialism-in-our-time
motion to be sidetracked at the Queensland Labor
conference.”
“Don’t you know me, Foghorn? I’m your
little socialistic cousin, and I’ve come
to pay you a long visi t.”
“Na. na! Not till after the eelections, any-
way.”
about the socialisation of industry, but the
subject was hurriedly changed, and every
one talked about the weather or the races
or something. In spite of its success in
Federal constituencies the party realises
that the less red there is in its necktie for
the present the better for the kawse.
The death of J. J. Clasby, M.H R for
East Sydney, recalls that of C. R. Ilowroyd
who, like Clasby, made a successful assault
on a Labor stronghold (Darwin, Tas. repre-
sented for 14 years by King O’Malley) and
was fated not to be sworn in. In each case
the strain of waiting many days for votes to
be counted told on a frame exhausted by a
strenuous campaign. The thing must be a
“Spare a copper for a pore ole politician,
lady! I stood for the Senate w'en I
teas young, an’ they haven’t declared
the poll yet.”
torture to highly-strung men, who are gener-
ally brainy and conscientious, and the very
thought of it keeps men of that type out of
public life. In other English-speaking coun-
tries election results are announced on the
night of the poll or, at latest, the day after.
This could be done in Australia also, in all
but a few remote House of Reps, electo-
rates, if counting were .speeded up and if the
absurd provision that anyone may record an
“absent” vote anywhere were abolished. Very
few of the people who avail, themselves of
this privilege are genuine absentees —for those
there is the postal vote —but the collection
and examination of their ballot-papers in-
volves maddening delays, and needless expense
withal. Senate results could also be made
known within a week at the outside, instead
of three weeks, as was the case in N. S.
Wales.
One Ernest Benn has obtained some publi-
city in England by suggesting that after the
next war statesmen should “leave the money
market alone and settle the issue in the his-
torical way by grabbing land, or in the
classical way by taking tribute of youths and
maidens.” The second alternative may be
dismissed as a flight of fancy, but there was
a time when grabbing a portion of a con-
quered country was the simplest and most
effective way of settling the bill. There
might be something to be said for it still if
it didn't nearly always leave an irredenta
problem, a fruitful source of more wars. The
one thing that sticks out in the present
'welter of controversy over war debts is that
pecuniary compensation must be collected
with reasonable dispatch or it never will be.
Germany charged France 300 millions as
indemnity (not reparations) after the
Franco-Prussian War, and got the money
inside of a few years, largely by staying there
until it did. There was ilo need for Dawes
Plans or Young Plans.
One of the minor delights of the last
week or two in Sydney and Melbourne
has been the exchange of amenities between
General Blarney of the Victorian police and
N.S.W. lottery manager Whiddon. Someone
lias been selling forged Whiddonian tickets in
Victoria, whereupon the much-advertised Ma
State official suggested it was up to the Cab-
bage Garden police department to deal with
the scoundrels. This provoked the retort that
it was unusual for people breaking the law
themselves to appeal to the police against
other offenders, Whiddon’s sweeps being
an illegal enterprise in Victoria. Frenzied
protests came frojn Sydney in reply, but so
far the Victorians seem to have turned the
trick. The police have banished the many
advertisements of the sweeps • which have
been flooding Victoria, and Chief-Secretary
Tunnecliffe has announced that anyone
caught selling N.S.W. lottery tickets, forged
or genuine, will be prosecuted.
Ex-Senator Teddy Needham, who was the
runner-up in the Westralian Senate elec-
tions, lost more than the chance of regain-
ing his seat by the political landslide of last
month. The Scullin Government, it trans-
pires, had sympathetically given him the job
of collecting passage money advanced to
immigrants, but the new Ministry terminated
the appointment on discovering that Teddy
had been paid £65 during the last quarter of
the year for wringing £57 out of reluctant
or impoverished debtors. No fault was found
with Edward’s industry, it was explained,
but the overhead was a bit too heavy.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Bloggs”: Most callings put their marks
on men in time. Clerics are soulful and
talkative; farmers warily silent; commercial
travellers and bookies noisy and profane,
and so on. But politicians are easier to
spot than any of them. They are made, not
born, and the process is miraculously speedy.
My neighbor Henry Mumble was as diffident
as a poor relation when some practical
jokers induced him to nominate for Parlia-
ment. To his party’s amazement he got in.
He hadn’t been there three months when I
noticed the change. He is now a truculent,
pedantic bore. If you visit his home he
delivers interminable orations on the tariff,
the currency, international affairs and other
deep matters about which he wouldn’t have
dared to open his mouth in the old days ; and
ART.
PERCY: “Are you fond of music?”
MERCY: “Oh, I just love the toot of a motor-horn!”
the same if he visits your house. I know,
since Mumble became a legislator, what
Queen Victoria meant when she complained
that Gladstone treated her “like a public
meeting.” There is a mass-production of
politicians in this country who are what the
G.O.M. would have been if he had had no
brains and hardly any education.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: An empty pocket is a great
cliastener of the spirit, but for some reason
the present depression has brought no
“revivalist” epidemic such as accompanied
every previous slump that I can remember,
According to some parsons there has been
an increase of church attendances, but uo
movement of the kind that the Dowies and
the Torreys and Alexanders turned to
such account in bygone years. Is the dole
responsible? It may have been a doubt
as to where next week’s loaves of bread
were to come from that created the old rush
to prayer.
* * * *
“ Jeames”: The value of the cinema as a
commercial traveller was interestingly
demonstrated in London the other day. when
the editor of the “Outfitter” said : “Twenty
times as many dress-suits are sold as in
1914; butchers’ boys, railway porters, fac-
tory operators, even ’bus conductors, all have
dress-suits nowadays. Not less than 20.000
dress-shirts are sold every year in the East
End alone.” The explanation is that movie-
mad girls who have seen men in dress clothes
on the films “won’t go to dances with part-
ners in their ‘Sunday suits.’ ” In Sydney, all
the beach-fashions, from backless costumes to
Mexican hats, derive from the bathing-pools
of Hollywood. Australian golf has been
Americanised by the movies: white plus-
fours. dinky little linen caps, weird lumber-
jackets. etc., all come from the U.S.A. The
pictures sold thousands of American cars,
and they are still selling thousands of revol-
vers. It looks so easy in a talkie to shove
a gat in an enemy’s stomach, and the
response to the command “Hands up!” is
so prompt that the ceremony is often
staged in the Commonwealth. It isn’t Holly-
wood’s fault that Australians occasionally
neglect to put their hands up with fatal
results to themselves. The influence of the
talkies is seen again after the tragedy. The
sob-stuff of our tabloids and many of our
weeklies is lifted holus-bolus from films like
“The Front Page.”
* Sic * *
“Swansdown”: The most amazing elec-
toral poster I have ever seen had its
genesis in the brain of a National-
party organiser in Perth when
Bigjohn Forrest’s death necessi-
tated an election for the Swan
seat. There were three candi-
dates. and it struck the organiser
that it would be a fine idea to have
them depicted as dogs of different
breeds snarling at one another
over the possession of a choice
bone, with the deceased peer, or
his ghostly presentment, lustily
encouraging his choice —which
was understood to be Bill
Hedges, a bulldog straining at
the chain —from some celestial
coign of vantage. Accordingly he
summoned an artist (now a well-
known Sydney cartoonist) and
commissioned him to produce the
weird concept. The draughts-
man jibbed a little. “If it’s a
dog fight,” he said, “Forres*
ought to be a dog, too ; a phan-
tom dog, if you like, but not a
man or a human spirit.” But
the other was so much in love
with his idea that he refused to
modify it. So Australia’s only
native-born peer was represented
as a figure up in the clouds, with
his baronial robes about him instead of
angelic wings, taking a keen and obviously
partial interest in the election. How many
votes the outrageous thing cost Bill Hedges
was never ascertained ; anyhow he was badly
beaten.
* sjc *
“Tabary”: S. Aus. seems to have produced
something of a Jack Sheppard in Ernest
Albert Richards, who broke out of a Yatala
cell, scaled a wall or two and is still at
large. Certainly, if he worked lone-handed
his performance is a remarkable one.
He is. credited with having fashioned skele-
ton keys to fit sturdy padlocks out
of a galvanised-iron dustbin, and to have
operated them through the grille of his
cell by means of some strong wire, a
tiny lamp fashioned from a sewing-machiue
oilcan and a fragment of mirror that served
for a makeshift periscope. Professional lock-
smiths are dubious if such a feat was pos-
sible, but the warders differ from them, being
inclined to view the escape as “by far the
cleverest in the history of Yatala,” no mean
tribute in the circumstances. If Richards
is recaptured and his proficiency at lock-
picking is established by official inquiry, the
next prison governor entrusted with his safe-
keeping will have something to keep him
awake o’ nights.
>|c * s': sic
“Gad”: I would like to assure “Subbubs”
(B. 13/l/’32) that I have travelled roughly
3000 miles in the last 12 months, have drawn
rations at about 50 different police stations,
and have never seen “a well-dressed” crowd
waiting to draw relief. Most of the fellows
I meet round the stations are practically in
rags. Nor is there any fear of “legal trouble”
to discourage would-be employers “from com-
ing to arrangements with would-be wage-
earners” in rural Queensland. A Queensland
cocky whom I came across at a railway
siding and asked for a job said simply: “I
could sell you men out there” (i.c., where
he lived). In Bundaberg alone there are
400 locals out of work. But I hold no brief
for suburban bagmen. The dregs always
stay round the cities.
* * * *
“M.W.” (Berlin) : To the tourist the chief
visible effect of the war so far as Germany is
concerned seems to be a sharpened appetite
for sausage. You go along any famous
street in this city of wonderful shops, and
find two fat fraus and a child looking into
a florist’s or a jeweller’s window that
deserves a pop-eyed mob across the footpath.
You see a struggling mass in front of another
shop, and assume, on your Australian experi-
ence, that somebody is getting murdered on
the premises. In 10 minutes you have bored
in, and find the crowd devouring with its
eyes mounds and pillars and festoons of saus-
ages, sausages in mass formation and saus-
ages in fancy designs, sausages plain and
sausages in every color that a hundred gallons
of Bundaberg rum could paint them. Annette
Kellerman, who is leading a show through
Germany, wa.s waited on by her manager
shortly after she got into the country. “The
house manager says you’ll have to cut your
act,” he told her. Of course she said it couldn’t
be done—no star’s act ever can be cut. The
house manager was called in. “But, Madame,”
he said, “this is imperative. Your act is too
MRS. GINK: “Just had an interesting chat with Mrs. Spinkle, John.”
JOHN: “And what did you talk about?”
MRS. GINK: “Oh, just business.”
JOHN: “Yes, but whose?”
long—it leaves us not enough interval to
sell our sausages.” The sale of sausages,
it seemed, was a most important part of the
house revenue; in fact, before the interview
was through Annette was made to under-
stand that the real purpose of the theatre
was to sell sausages, and that the artists’
job was merely to fill the place with cus-
tomers.
* * * #
“Gules”: Baronets or alleged baronets or
claimants to dubious baronetcies are perpetu-
ally turning up in various parts of the Empire,
and the latest edition of “Whitaker’s
Peerage, Baronetage and Knightage”
does something to explain their
frequency. “The order,” says this
authority, “has no political privileges
attached, and there being scarcely *
any means, as there are with peers,
for ascertaining the correct succes-
sion, spurious, not to say fraudulent,
assumptions of baronetcies have
cropped up and pestered us year
after year.” Apparently something
has been done to discourage impos-
tures of recent years; an official roll
of dinkum baronets is now kept by
the Home Secretary, and anyone out-
s'de of it is regarded as spurious,
.vlso, a couple of years ago, the King,
“being desirous of enhancing the
state and dignity of the hereditary
degree of baronet,” granted an elabo-
rate and ornate badge to be worn by
baronets round their necks on all
appropriate occasions previously
“the bloody hand of Ulster” was the
only emblem that attached to the
title, and a man couldn’t wear that
round his neck, anyhow. Another
odd item of information is that the
wives of baronets are “baronetesses,”
though the word is rarely used nowa-
days. Being so much more distinc-
tive than “lady,” it’s a wonder it
was allowed to drop out.
“D.D.” : “As We Said Before” always calls
up pleasant memories for us oldtimers, but
that of (5/l/’32 has a strong personal touch.
“The Sacred Alligator” was by Ernest Fav-
enc. At that time “Tit Bits” was running a
competition to discover the Champion Liar of
the Universe; and when The Bulletin of
12/7/’9O reached England “Tit Bits” lifted
Favenc’s yarn to its competition page with
THE WOMAN AGAIN.
MR. EGGATIST ( complacently ): “My wife,
sir, made me what I am!”
MR. BITTERGAWI: “Yes, yes! But I hope
you have forgiven her!”
the footnote: “We despair of,this yarn ever
being beaten. Our competition is now closed,
and the prize will be forwarded to our Syd-
ney agent for presentation to George Wash-
ington.” Months passed without any prize
arriving; and then Favcnc announced
through The Bulletin that if it did not
soon materialise he would place “Tit Bits”
among the Champion Literary Pirates of the
Universe. Soon after that the prize arrived
per Thompson, who then held a position in
newsagency something like that now occu-
pied by Gordon and Gotch. It was a clock
worth'about 30s. “Tit Bits” was run in
those days by George Newnes, the man who
afterwards put a quarter of a million into
the Newnes oil-shale business (N.S.W.) and
lost, it all. The phiz of Alfred Allen, by
Phil May, recalls the old Freetrade-Protec-
tion fights. Alfred won one of the Padding-
ton seats as a Freetrader at the general
election; then, a vacancy occurring, the by-
election was won by his brother, W.J. (dis-
tinguished as “Soapy” on account of his con-
nection with the soap trade). H'e was a big,
jovial Protectionist, and in every way a foil
to the solemn Alfred. I was in the House
one night when Alfred was fluting on the
virtues of Freetrade. Ninian Melville inter-
jected : “Your father was a good Protection-
ist, anyhow.” To which Alfred replied,
“What about it? If my father were a Hot-
tentot, is that any reason why I should be
one?”
“Petty Officer Seaweed”: Touching .these
incorrect newspaper captions (B. 6/l/’32),
the blunders perpetrated by daily newspapers
about the R.A.N. are the most outrageous
of all. To mention only a few instances, a
depth-charge illustrated in a photograph was
described as a searchlight; “H.M.A.S. .Can-
berra Exercising at Jervis Bay,” was printed
under a picture of the Australia at Port
Stephens; and a close-up of the galley
became “The Wireless-transmitting Station.”
Paravanes are often torpedoes, bluejackets
in working rig are marines, petty officers are
awarded commissions, and so it goes on. The
“S. M. Herald” and The Bulletin (in its
rare comments) are the only accurate
sources of information, but the entire Aus-
tralian press must, be blamed for conveying
a somewhat hazy impression that the R.A.N.
has a special wharf alongside the Fleming-
ton racecourse.
“Swastika”: Gamblers are notoriously
superstitious, and the N.S.W. State lotteries,
according to Whiddon, arc
continually providing instances
of a pathetic faith in “lucky”
emblems and the like. A
scream from a startled girl as
she opened an envelope and a
dried piece of mortality fell
out of it disturbed the calm
of operations the other morn-
ing ; the harmless object was
subsequently identified as a
rabbit’s foot dispatched by
some sanguine countryman
along with his application.
Rut the women are more
superstitious than the men;
they bring all sorts of mascots
to the drawings, and a few
have even sought permission
to touch Whiddon’s coat-tails
before handing over the money
for tickets. It just shows that
a man never knows what magi-
cal properties may be attri-
buted to him until iie goes into
the lottery business. When
Whiddon was Income-tax
Commissioner and had to listen
to many pathetic appeals, it is
improbable that any suppliant
for his favors ever tried to
touch him in that way.
“Lucky Marble”: In these hustling days
the announcement of a wedding or a birth
in the daily press is followed by the arrival
of a bundle of letters from furniture stores
or baby-food manufacturers. But anew
note was struck last week. On Monday
night the “Sun” published the photo, of the
winner of the State lottery, showing several
front teeth missing. In Tuesday morning’s
mail the winner received letters from three
big dental firms.
TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had a watch when I was but a boy;
It was my first—and a perpetual joy.
By day it scarcely ever left my sight,
And carefully I wound it up at night.
And yet I heeded not the time it kept,
Nor noticed if the minutes lagged or leapt.
Then manhood came, and I possessed a clock
That measured out my time with grave
“Tick, tock.”
And woke me in the early morning prime
With tunefully uncompromising chime. \
But, though I wound it up when day was
done,
I marked the hours of daylight by the sun.
Now I am old. The days and minutes pass
With lightning speed; the sand sinks in
the glass.
I wind my busy timepiece ev’ry night,
And scrupulously see that it is right.
I could not brook that it should go too fast
When ev’ry hour it strikes may be my last!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


è
MEN.
"I don’t think I like self-made men very much, dear.”
“No, darling. I’d rather have one made to order.”
want a bottle of beer you have to pay a wine
waiter the price of the lunch to bring it.
And you get a dirty look if a tip isn’t forth-
coming in addition to the lOd. charged for
the service. The worst ramp of the kind I
ever saw attempted was at a famous London
West-End hotel, where a friend who had
ordered two whiskies and sodas found 255.
on the bill. The waiter explained that it
was the custom of the house to charge for
every bottle opened, whether whisky or
wine. My friend promptly said: “Well,
wrap up the bottle; I’ll take it home.” The
staggered Dago obeyed, and we left with the
rest of the whisky. Query: What would
happen in a Sydney hotel-restaurant if one
arrived in the dining-room with beer that
had been bought in the bar?
* * * *
“Mime”: “M.G.S.” (B. 9/.12/’3l) derided
Hollywood’s craze for “literal accuracy”
which impels it to employ “huge staffs of
nitwits looking up encyclopaedias.” Would
that it had such a craze! Here’s Captain
Dollman, of the British Natural History
Museum, on the subject:—
I have seen a film, supposed to depict a jungle
near Mombasa, in which the monkeys shown were
Capuchins—which are found only’in South America.
And I have seen an African hysna and a South
American, spider-monkey in an East Indian forest
scene.': .
I recognised a Hollywood lion in half a dozen
films, sometimes supposed to be taken in Africa,
but sometimes in India and other places where lions
do not exist. .
A film magnate, when these blasphemies
against actuality were pointed out to him,
said: “Never mind, nobody will'ever know.”
This moronish scorn of truth’ in. Nature
and life, which is shared by millions of
film-fans like “M.G.5.,” is doing the busi-
ness more harm than anything else. Para-
mount is the only company that employs,
experts in a big way to detect anomalies
and anachronisms, and it is common know-
ledge that their suggestions are usually
laughed at. How different in the palmy
days of the stage! Gilbert, Shaw, Barrie,
Pinero and others watched rehearsals
closely and jumped hard on departures from
accuracy. Not that they found many. The
actor-managers were nearly all men of educa-
tion, and as severe on bloomers as Gilbert
himself. The talkies wall never achieve the
prestige that the stage enjoyed till they
cease to be produced by and for people who,
being ignorant themselves, think that ignor-
ance doesn’t matter.
* * * *
“Cissiter”: Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege (S. Aus.), where the students broke
out into open rebellion against the current
regime and are to have their grievances in-
vestigated by a Royal Commission, seems to
be an expensive institution for a hard-up
State to maintain. According to the Auditor-
General there is a staff of 44 to look after
between 60 and 70 students, two officers to
three men, as it were, somewhat after the
pattern of certain South American armies.
By this reckoning each student costs the
State about £2OO a year, and as he only pays
£45 in fees the institution is always'liable
to show a deficit of up to £20,000. As against
this it is urged that the finished product of
Roseworthy is equal to anything in Australia,
and that it would be poor policy to grudge
the cost of turning out farmers equipped to
their fingers’-ends with everything that up-
to-date science can teach. Maybe, but it
would be interesting to have the balance-
sheets of some kindred institutions—Hawkes-
bury, for instance.
* * # =!:
“Uramao”: Another record has been
achieved by Dutch tugs in towing Welling-
ton’s floating dock from Newcastle-on-Tyne to
Maoriland, a distance of over 13,500 miles.
The dock is 584 feet long and its walls are
48 feet high. Nearly half of a capital expen-
diture of £250,000 is made up by the insur-
ance and towage fees. Hitherto the biggest
tow in Australian history was that of the City
of Singapore, which was badly damaged by
fire at Port Adelaide in 1924 and was towed
to Rotterdam for repairs. The tugs that
brought out the M.L. dock, the Witte Zeaa
and the Zwarte Zee, averaged from four to
five miles an hour.
“B er t the
Carpenter”: In
our S.A. town
1 ives an old
lady whose
home-made hop-
beer enjoyed a
hig li repute
among her
friends, and
when her income
from some cot-
tages fell almost
to zero she
turned out the
beverage in in-
creased quanti-
ties and sold it.
Many Recha-
bites were
among her cus-
tomers. and the
local Salv’army
captain wound
up a burning
discourse on the
evils of strong
drink by de-
manding to know
why men bought
such poisons
when old Mrs.
Blank was mak-
ing an invigor-
ating and harm-
1e s s summer
drink the excel-
lence of which
he could vouch
for. Then one
of the local
Bungs, who was
feeling the com-
petition, sent a
bottle of the
stuff to Adelaide
to be analysed.
He received the
interesting reply
that it contained
2.4 per cent, of
proof spirit.
Now old Mrs.
Blank’s brew is unprocurable, the Salvo
captain wears a worried look, and the Recha-
bites have gone back to tea.
*_* * *
Oxmead : The credit (or otherwise) for
the introduction of the racily alliterative
headline into Australan journalism is gener-
ahy assigned to John Norton; the late Hugh
Mahon took the vogue from Sydney over to
Westralia and made it a feature of Sunday
journalism there. My first recollection of
Mahon as an editor is of his scoring out
? ne or, two matter-of-fact captions setting
forth how a half-hanged hairdresser had
been cut down in the nick of time by a
John Hop, and hastily substituting—“A
Balmy Barber—Rejects Razor for Rope—
Plucked from Perdition by Police.” But he
couM reach greater heights. The Kalgoorlie
Sun had fallen foul of a rather prominent
Groper politician of the pre-Federation era,
and by some means it got hold of some
passionate love-letters that he had addressed
to an actress. It is necessary to say
no more of the politician (who was
a Minister under Forrest) than that
his name began with V. Even if it was
hitting below the belt, the chance was too
g’ood to be lost, and in the next issue of
the aggrieved newspaper the amorous out-
pourings appeared in full for the delectation
of a grinning public under the succinct title,
spread right across the page, “V—’s Vows to
Venus.”
* * * *
“Court Brief”; A Maoriland aviation co.
has been hit up for heavy damages in the
first case of its kind heard in a British
court. Dominion Airlines, Ltd., instituted a
rush service following the Napier, earthquake
of. last February, and a young insurance-
agent named Strand booked a passage. The
’plane was temporarily piloted by one
Kight, the managing director of the com-
pany, an adventurous spirit but a neuras-
theme who for that reason had been refused
the certffieate reqmred for carrying pussengers.
While dropping some packages at Wairoa,
he flew his plane too low: it nose-dived and
crashed. Both Strand and Kight were killed;
rne relatives of the former claimed £5OOO
damages under the Deaths and Accidents
AN OLD SORE.
“I wonder why old Hardcase looked so savage when you told him to watch his step?”
“Don’t you know someone left a baby there one night?”
Compensation Act. For the company it was
pointed out that the ticket issued to Strand
absolved the carriers from responsibility for
negligence on the part of those flying their
’planes, but the Judge ruled that there could
he no exoneration from liability when there
had been a breach of a statutory duty, of
which the passenger knew nothing. A secon-
dary argument put forward by the defence
was that the Court ought not to be too
insistent upon strict compliance with regula-
tions when the ’planes were engaged upon
errands of mercy; but this was countered by
the fart observation that the co. seemed to
have found the time opportune to make an
increase in fares. Verdict for £3OOO and
costs.
* * *
“Diego Valdez”: A good many Australians
of an earlier vintage will hear with regret
of the finish of the Alameda, which
used to ply between Sydney and ’Frisco.
For many years she had been out of
the passenger trade, carrying cargo to
Alaska, and recently she was burned to
the water’s edge. Old-fashioned as she
became, the Alameda was one of the very few
ships then running on any ocean route which
boasted the windowed deck cabins which are
now an essential feature of every coastal
passenger-carrier. With her sister ship, the
Mariposa, she maintained the Oceanic Co.’s
services until replaced by the Sonoma, tlie
Sierra and the Ventura, which are running
the same route under the Matson flag to-
day. My only voyage on her left me with
an ineffaceable recollection of her then
skipper. For one thing his name, was Van-
derdecken; for another, he wore the last
pair of Dundreary “weeper” whiskers I
ever saw.
* *
“Ex-Loco.”: I am not sorry that my loco.-
driving days are over now that it is becom-
ing the practice to lay up to 200 ft. of rails
without a joint (B. 0/l/’32). I have but
limited faith in the non-buckling of rails
laid in such lengths. And how is a 200 ft.
length going to be taken out and renewed
in a few minutes, as is often necessary
now when there is a break? I have a
very vivid recollection of seeing the rails
ahead, which had been apparently laid with-
out sufficient spacing at the ends, buckled
till they looked like a snake on the warpath.
Before we could pull up our train —fortu-
nately it was only a slow one—it jumped
the buckled metals and was off the road. And
this was at a seaside. In a hot inland dis-
trict the rails might be somewhere out near
the fences in such circumstances.
:J: ❖ *
“Coif”: Those Australian civilians who
have claims upon the Government for in-
juries received
ac me hands of
a foreign power
—and they are
by no means
f e w—will be
shocked to hear
that though
the Crown may
have exacted
c o m pe nsation,
the injured
British subject
has no right to
a cut of it.
This is the effect
of a judgment
by the Judicial
Committee of
the House of
Lords on an
appeal by the
Civilian War
C laimants'
Association, a
body of folk
who suffered
damage during
the war from
coastal bom-
bardments and
air-raids. Their
claims w-ere in-
cluded in the
bill for repara-
tious, but no dividend has been paid. The
Judges decided that they could see no evi-
dence that the British Government was in
the position of a trustee, or that money was
received for the use of the claimants- so
another fond illusion has burst.
C.Q. : T.here is an interesting parallel
between the growth of luxury and civic
beauty in Rome during the decadence of the
Empire and the immense improvement in
the appearance of Melbourne since the
depression started. Enormous sums have
been extracted from taxpayers and handed
ovei* to various authorities for unemploy-
ment relief, and, not being able to use the
money in productive works, the said authori-
ties have been busy beautifying the metro-
polis. The dusty and dishevelled thorough-
fare along which I drive daily to work has
blossomed into trim lawns, flower gardens
and incipient palm groves, and this in spite
of the fact that roadmaking has stopped in
the outer suburbs, where roads are really
needed. The private citizen is in the same
position. There being no object in making
things for use, since nobody has the money
to buy them, manufacturers are obliged to
spend their ready cash on decoration. One
of my neighbors, a boot manufacturer, has
a squad of men at work making a large
bathing-pool and fishpond in his garden.
* * * *
“Pawang” : A Melbourne man calling him-
self a naturopath has gone to prison for
six months, after an unsuccessful appeal,
for depriving .a diabetic patient of insulin
and putting him on a starvation diet, after
which he died. The treatment of diabetes
is seldom undertaken by any but the most
ignorant or daring of such charlatans, the
disease being one of the few in which diag-
nosis and treatment are sufficiently scien-
tific and clear-cut to eliminate doubt. The
worst crimes of the quacks are committed
in cases of cancer. Melbourne surgeons deal
with scores of cancer patients every year
who have been given up by the terrified
witch-doctors when tlicir disease has reached
its most frightful stage. The victims of the
quack are so anxious to be deceived that
they will submit to forms of fraud that
would not impress them if the practitioners
tried to borrow a quid in Collins-street.
* * * *
erri”: Even if Anglican clergymen
refuse to marry divorced persons they won’t
necessarily be sending the couples to a
registry office (B. 13/l/’32). For many
years the Presbyterian Church has been the
popular choice of those who might anticipate
a hitch over a church marriage from the
Anglican quarter. Though there has arisen
a widespread idea that the kirk is somewhat
narrow in its views in this respect it is will-
ing to give its blessing to any union sanc-
tioned by law.
* * * *
“Bating”: Britain is building a cruiser of
a type hitherto unknown in the British navy,
and specially designed for convoy duty. Slie
will be the first craft in the K.N. to be
Diesel-engined, and the cheapest to operate
in proportion to tonnage, while her radius
of action will exceed that of any British
warship afloat. It looks as if the cruiser is
WHAT DADDY SAID.
MUMMY: "Now run out and play, Billy. Mr. Tershum doesn’t want
to be bothered with you.”
BILLY: " But why can’t I stay and play with you ?, Daddy said if Mr.
Tershum called again more than two could play at that game.”
an answer to tlie German “pocket battle-
ship,” which has been so widely advertised:
and here again we have ,the old pre-war pic-
ture of each nation raising the ante on the
other.when a new ship or a new gun is
produced.
NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.
é
ê
T. THE R.


fc' j; ’•■**'* '
m
from SYDNEY —l9 DAYS.
.. MELBOURNE- 14 .. -
ADELAIDE -11 .. -
i
ADELAIDE
A.U.S.N. €•
HOWARD SMITH, L T J
HUDDART PARKER,
MHLWRAITH, M c EACHARN
MELBOURNE STEAMSHIP C
•
mi
\V:
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Gordon Brown, who topped Labor’s Senate
poll in Queensland, is a tall Englishman
with an easy, breezy platform style acquired
from long practice on the soap-box. He is
not so militant as when he took all sorts
of risks in Brisbane free-speech skirmishes
some years ago. He has been a Shop
Assistants’ Union organiser for some years
and knows as much about one end of the
rag-shop business as Bruce knows about the
other.
Stricken down with cerebral haemorrhage
three weeks after he had won a great victory
in East Sydney, John Joseph Clasby lin-
gered a week in hospital without regaining
consciousness and died last Friday. It was
a tragical ending for a man still young
he was but 38—and full of keenness and
vigor who looked to have a big political
career before him. The same grit and perti-
nacity and personal appeal which enabled
him to capture a seat that had been
Labor for just on 22 years might well have
carried him far in public life. Clasby was
born at Warragul, Gippsland, and had a
fine war record. He enlisted in the Light
Horse, transferred to the artillery in Egypt
and saw service in France, being invalided
home, in 1917. He was unmarried.
After a desperate fight with a complication
of maladies, the results of war injuries,
Albert Jacka, the first, Australian to win the
V.C. in the Gfeat War, died in Caulfield
Military Hospital on Sunday. Jacka, a
native of Winclielsea and an employee of the
Vic. Forests Commission in 1914, joined up
among the first, left Australia with the 14th
Battalion, and won the supreme award for
valor on Gallipoli where, his four comrades
in a section of a trench having been killed
or disabled, he disposed of seven Turks single-
handed, with rifle or bayonet, and held the
position until relieved. He won a commission
in the field, and further qualities for intrepid
disregard of danger and for leadership dis-
played at Pozieres and Bullccourt brought
him the Military Cross and bar. In civil
life, like so many other Diggers, he found
times hard of late, an importing business
with which he was connected having suc-
cumbed to the depression a year ago. He
was elected to the St. Kilda (Wic.) council
in 1929. and became Mayor a year later, but
found himself unable to complete the term,
resigning in August last. He was not 40
at the end.
The Lang-planners have got no footing
in Victoria, but there is the same Trades
Hall hunger for the loaves and fishes. The
“industrialists” therefore propose to toss
several of the present men out, and, if neces-
sary, contest seats against them. One of
the men marked down for destruction is
TUNNECLIFFE, Vic. Chief Secretary.
Tunnecliffe, of Collingwood, Chief Secretary
in the Hogan Ministry, whose offence is that
it accepted the Premiers’ Economy Plan.
The plan of campaign has not been worked
out; but it will probably be decided at a
meeting in the last days of January. Tunne-
cliffe is one of the oldest members of the
party: he represented West Melbourne as
far back as 1903, and was prominent in the
bootmakers’ union before that. The Trades
Hall, however, thinks so little of what Labor
has hitherto done that it may yet adopt a
new motto: “The greater the service the
greater the sin.”
Bruce, who pulls No. 3 in the Lyons-
Latham boat, was twice wounded in the
war; but alongside new Minister for Markets
Hawker he got off unharmed. Hawker lost
a leg and an eye.
R. R. Garran,
Solicitor - General,
confidant and adviser
of Prime Ministers
from the beginnings
of Federation, and
secretary to the
Committee of the
Federal Convention
which drafted the
Constitution, retires
from the Federal
service this month.
George Knowles.
Chief Clerk and
Assistant Parliamen-
tary Draftsman in
the Federal Attorney-
General’s depart-
ment, succeeds him
Knowles was born
in Queensland 50
years ago—'his father
was postmaster at
Ipswich—and left
the State public ser-
vice for that of the
Commonwealth when
he was 20. He
studied law later and
was admitted in
1916. Garran, who
is 65, contemplates
going into private
practice in Sydney.
Little Dr. Arthur
may retire at the
next. N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary election, and
General Lloyd is the
man most likely to
take his place. Dr.
Arthur doesn’t make
any bones about it —
he knows nothing of
economics or finance ;
“BOB” GARRAN.
but he has held on
to one district for 27 years chiefly through
making himself solid with the woman vote
under the highly respectable red roofs of his
highly respectable Mosman.
The late J. J. Clasby is the third Federal
member to die before he could take his seat.
The others were C. R. Howroyd, who in
3917 defeated King O’Malley for Darwin
(Tas.), and J. M. Power, appointed in 1924
to the N.S.W Senate vacancy created by
the death of Senator Allan McDougall,
Senator McGregor (S.A.) and Charles
McDonald (Q.f both died between nomina-
tion and election days.
Two terms of Vic. Premiership, aggregat-
ing three years and seven months, have
shattered the health of Edmond Hogan, and
he is trying to get over his nervous trouble
by a rest at Palm Beach (N.S.W.). The
job has taken heavy toll of at least seven
of his predecessors, Shiels, Patterson, Bent
and Murray (all deceased), Irvine, Lawson
and McPherson. By getting out in time
Irvine and Lawson recovered from the
strain and “came again” in new surroundings.
McPherson, after his trying year as Govern-
ment leader, went for a sea trip, and then
quitted politics altogether. Bent was the
toughest, but the Royal Commission ordeal
(1909), from which lie emerged ex-
onerated, told on him in his seventies, and
he passed out eight months after handing
over the No. 1 job to Murray.
Peter Reidy, M.L.A., who died in Adel-
aide last week after a long illness, made a
sensational entrance into Parliament 17
years ago by defeating the Premier of the
State (A. H. Peake) in his own constitu-
ency. What may well have added to the
bitterness of defeat was that the winner was
a police constable stationed in the district.
Reidy, who was born in County _ Clare in
1874, came to Australia while still in his
’teens and joined the* S. Aus. police force in
IS9B. He left the Labor party in 1916 over
the conscription issue, but his constituents
stuck to him and continued to return him
for the Victoria division. H'e was one of
the best debaters in the House.
Edward W. Hawker, F.G.S., eldest son
of the late Geo. C. Hawker, founder of
Bungaree and other famous 8. Aus. pastoral
properties, has been keeping his 82nd birth-
day For many years he has carried on the
family pastoral traditions at East Bungaree
station. Back in the ’eighties and ’nineties
father and son (the former had been Speaker
in the ’.sixties) sat in the same Assembly.
E.W. took his degrees at Cambridge, was
called to the English Bar, and, keenly inter-
ested in metallurgy, lectured on mining at
the S. Aus. School of Mines for seven years.
He married a daughter of the late Chief
Justice Stawell, of Vic.; their son Stanley
won the M.C. in the war.
Gympie (Q.) lost a sterling citizen and a
successful business man who gave. much of
his time to public service in Daniel Mulcahy,
passed out at 75. A native of Tamworth
(N.S.W.), he had lived for 52 years_ in the
northern town and became an essential part
of it. He was four times mayor, and for
many terms an alderman. In 1901, when
Fisher resigned to enter the first Common-
wealth Parliament, Mulcahy succeeded him
as one of the district’s two members, and sat
for 11 years in the Labor interest. Then
Gympie became a single electorate, and,
another Labor candidate having been en-
dorsed, Mulcahy stood as an Independent
and went down. In his younger days he
was keenly interested in mining; he saw the
rise and fall of Gympie as a gold-producer,
and lived to see it rise to a second eminence
as an agricultural and fruit centre.
H. V. C. Tliorby is the new M.H.R. for
Calare, once the stronghold of Neville
Howse. Thorby, still in his early forties,
went on the land after leaving Sydney
Grammar, taking charge of a family pro-
perty. He entered the N.S.W, Assembly
in 1922 as one of the three members for
Wammerawa; upon the reversion to single
seats in 1927, he got home for Castlereagh,
becoming Minister for Agriculture, but he lost
Castlereagh three years later to .Toe Clark.
Like Nock (Riverina) he has held the presi-
dency of the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Associa-
tion.
The little township of Avoca (Vic.) claims
the distinction of having been the
birthplace of two successive P.M.G.’s,
“Texas” Green and Fenton, The two Avoca
natives shook hands cordially when the
portfolio changed hands the other day and
recalled the days when they were contem-
poraries at the State school.
Just died at Malvern, England, in her
S3rd year, Alice Mary Freeman, niece of
Edward Gibbon Wakefield, who gathered
Maoriland into the fold of the Empire. She
was the daughter of Daniel Bell Wakefield,
an acting Judge of the Supreme Court in
M.L., and was born in Wellington. Much
of the material for recent biographies of
Edward Gibbon Wakefield, by Miss Irma
O’Connor and Dr. A. J. Harrop, were sup-
plied by the old lady.* She went to Eng--
land in 1862. - •
Phil Mcßride, the new member for'Grey
(S.A.), is one of the Mcßrides of the
Burra. His 'grand-dad; the late J.*M(, . opened
up large tracts of country in the'State, and
was a noted philanthropist. Dad, A.J., also 1
dead, became one of life State’s most affluent
squatters: he worked j 'largely f in the dry
country. Phil, who was born at Burra 39
years ago, was associated with his father:
since the latter’s death he has continued the
business with his brother I—they 1 —they- control Wil-.
gena, Wooltana, Teetulpa and Braemar
stations. H'e is not the kind that takes lightly
to public life, although he has been presi-
dent of the S.A. Stockowners’ Association,
PHIL McBRIDE, new M.H.R. for Grey
(S.A.)
but he'felt that it was up to him to do his
bit in getting his country on its feet. In.
appearance he is black-haired and heavy-
browed, and speaks slowly and deliberately.
Yet he can hustle when he likes; during the
first week of his campagn he covered 1500
miles. A golfer and an angler, he should
help to brighten up the time between sit-
tings at Canberra.
In disposing of Chifley and Luchetti m
Macquarie, Jack Lawson achieved a record
non-Labor vote for the electorate. The
sunburned, pleasant-mannered young grazier
belongs to a family which settled on the
Hawkcsbury (N.S.W.) over 100 years ago,
at the time Hume, Cunningham and Stirling
were blazing trails. Lawson’s grandfather
used to run teams which brought produce
to Sydney from the West and took supplies
back to the settlers. The route he followed
cut through what is now the grandson’s
J. N. LAWSON, new M.H.R. for Macquarie
(N.S.W.).
electorate. The new member is an old
Sydney High boy, a graduate in veterinary
science at Sydney University, and one who
has had a fair deal of experience in the meat-
export trade —he learned the business in
Maoriland. Returning to Australia, he
became a pastoralist. In the big drought
out west a few years ago his grass and water
gave out and lie was forced off his property.
Sending his wife and children to stay with
friends he took to the road with 2500 sheep.
He was out for four months, but when the
drought broke he had his flock, practically
intact, and hie has made headway ever since.
' Senator William Carroll, who has secured
his '(Second t erm of office as the last of the
Westralian three, is just 60 and Victorian-
born. His chance of entering. Federal poli-
ties came when Edmund Drake-Brockman,
a brigadier-general in the war and an Arbi-
tration Court Judge nowadays, dropped out
in 1925 ; it was felt that the- Country party,
which divides honors and jobs in Westralian
non-Labor Ministries, was also entitled to
at least one Senator out of three, and Car-
roll, who had been secretary of the Primary
Producers’ Association as well as a State
M.L.C., got the call. Unlike his colleagues
from the West, he speaks rarely and gets
little limelight.
- Hanny l Creedon, an old-time mayor of
Broken “HilF, who helped to bring local gov-
ernment to The silver city, died: in Adelaide
a few days ago. Danny had two soils. Both
were killed in the war. . .
Just-retired Vic. police-superintendent E.
G. Ashton is the man who arrested the
notorious criminal King, the American negro,
who was a problem to prison authorities
for years. Jack Murray, when Chief Sec.,
took an interest in King because he seemed
to be intelligent, but the black desperado
abused Jack’s sympathy and continued to
make a wild beast of himself. Finally he
was deported to U.S.A. and is said to have
died soon after his repatriation.
“Med”: I don’t know whether Dr. Ellis
(B. 30/12/’3l) did much for mankind by his
political aspirations, but I can bear testi-
mony to' the value of some of his medical
work. While practising at Coolgardie in
1912 he published in'the “Australian Medical
Gazette” an article on “Infantile Diarrhoea
and Its Treatment,” His specific was sim-
plicity itself, namely, Epsom salts. I
qualified in Edinburgh, but I can honestly
say, after 30 years of practice in Queens-
land, that I learned more about this malady
from Ellis’s article than from all the lectures
and textbooks I ever listened to and read in
my student days. Following liis methods I
have not lost a case. 1 was so struck with
my results that I wrote to him on the sub-
ject when he was in England on war work,
but I failed to get. in touch with him. I am
very glad to hear that he is in Harley-street.
Arthur Searcy, of Adelaide, who was 80
on Jan. 6, is the survivor of three brothers
who all rendered valuable service to S. Aus.
He was in the State public service for over
half a century, occupying some of the high-
est offices, and was one of the right-hand
men of C. C. Kingston in pre-Federation
days. Searcy’s father left an honored name
in ‘ the colony as an old-time inspector of
police.


m
m
m <
wm
tm
; h
1
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
Abbot Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W..
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon
tame that troublesome drive in
your plant. It has no equal for
long and dependable service under
constant shock loads; it is
weatherproof, steamproof and does
not slip. Let us show you how
to get more efficient transmission
for every type of drive with
CHROMOL
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
IX7 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
S>6e
“AIR-RAY”
A Sporting Hat that fulfils a
long-felt want. Made from
guaranteed Indian Head Cloth,
and ventilated by widely-per-
forated gauze which covers two-
thirds of each side of the hat,
thus creating a continuous cur-
rent. of cool air. Suitable for
Fishing, Bowls, Golf, Garden-
ing. etc. Obtainable in Biscuit,
White or Grey, in all
sizes. Price, each, only
O / O
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency
Dividend:,.
r ~ A >
5 P.c. Written
I rent. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
1920. .185,338 50,000 61 p.c.=65,000 48,593 723491
Loss.
1921. . 16,186 50,000 4 ~,,40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,557 50,000 2 „ ~20.000 518,443
Profit.
1923.. 92,083 50,000 4,, ~40,000 521,031
1924. , 12 6,725 50,000 6 „ ~60,000 10,000 527,756
1925. .141,890 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 539,646
1926. .135,640 60.000 7,, „ 70,000 10,000 545,286
i — , Ords. —^
p.c. p.e. p.e.
1927. .148,992 5 01 71 = 136,681 10,000 547,597
1928. .176,099 5 61 8,, 162,500 10,000 551,196
1929. .179,716 5 61 8,, 162,500 10,000 558,412
1930. . 76,551 5 61 4 „ 122,500 512,463
Transferred from contingency reserves,
£155,000 .. .. . . .. 667,463
Loss.
1931.. 148,464 Nil Nil Nil - 518,999
The co.'s wool sales in Australia and
Maoriland (272,281 bales) were 9988 bales
lower; prices showed a further decline,
and commission earnings from the wheat and
dairy-produce departments slumped also.
Gross income, including revenue from pro-
perties and investments, after providing
for bad debts, etc., was £206,599 lower at
£298,525; administration exes. (£869,502)
were cut only £20,987, but £20,599 was saved
i, n taxes. The final result was a loss of
£148,464, for which the board mainly blames
the exceptional provision required against
bad debts. In order to wipe out the p. and 1.
debit £155,000 was brought to light out of
hidden contingency reserves, and all classes
of stock went hungry.
The co. suffers from a weakness developed
in the crash of the ’nineties: recovery has
been slow, without much chance of building-
up inner strength. From 2 p.c. in 1922
(when the co. was hit by the post-war
slump) the ord. div. climbed gradually to
8 p.c. in 1928 and 1929. -Distribution, how-
ever, had been in excess of visible earnings,
and the £518,999 at which reserves now
appear is not much of a prop for a million
of ord. and million of pref. capital. The
£8,200,000 of pref. and debenture money
costs an average of 4.7 p.c.; in good times,
when assets are earning their keep and a
bit more, this cheap money made profit-
earning easier for the ords. But in these
days fixed interest charges are a drag.
It has been an interesting history. In
1905 all that was left of shareholders’capital
was £185,895; the figure has since advanced
to its present total by cash issues, including
£500,000 of 61 p.e. pref. stock put out as
recently as 1927. Much of the reserve fund
was built up out of profits on the sale of the
co.'s old written-down squatting properties,
but mostly the co. sold out a bit too soon.
Clients have had to be nursed lately:—
Liabilities other than 1928. 1930. 1931.
debentures . . £1,218,916 £1,310,227 £997,327
Advances . . . . 4,283,645 4,507,197 4.380,457
Property . . . . 545
Premises . . , . 342,319 410,436 395,558
Merchandise . . 224,195 275,929 237,380
Shares in other cos. 180,239 166,455 168,864
Advances to do. . . 1,150 2,499
Cash and public
securities . . 1,014,170 706,574 531,566
Last year, partly owing to writings-down,
total debtors dropped £126.740, notwithstand-
ing an increase of £189,249 in secured
advances (£8,200,291). The floating outside
debt (£997,827, including contingency re-
serves) was worked down £312,900; it was
amply covered by cash, investments and
current accounts. Government securities
(£295.708) were taken in at £25,933 less
than their market value at balance-day.
Attracted by steady progress on the
wool-broking side, the public advanced its
bids for the ord. stock from £95 early in
1928 to £lBO in April, 1929: following the
collapse in wool values market support for
the stock rapidly weakened, and in October
last it was quoted at £45. The price has
since recovered to £6O, for which the pur-
chaser gets net tangibles (book values) equal
to £l5l 17s. lOd. per £lOO of ord. stock.
The pref. capital is held mainly in London.
Melbourne Electric Supply Co.
On November 12, 1925, this co.'s fran-
chises expired. It used to supply Melbourne
and Geelong with electricity, and o-wned
tramway services besides. The Victorian
Electricity Commission did not exercise its
resumption right immediately ; instead, until
September 1, 1930, the co. was allowed, by
special Act, to. carry .on the undertaking, for
a specified return; anything over and above
that return being handed over to the Elec-
tricity Commissioners. Only by drawing on
reserves for £102,848 was the co. able to
pay the customary rates of 8 p.c. to its
pref. and 10 p.c. to its ord. shareholders
during this period of control, but the State
was credited with no less than £1,353,000
in that time. The actual net. physical value
of the assets was finally settled at. £1,323,552,
which was, at the solicitation of the Com
mission, taken out by the co. in Government
stock. Virtually, the Commission was made
a present of the undertaking ‘ (it was paid
for out of its own earnings), with about
£20,000 in cash thrown in!
Now trouble lias fallen on the co. in
heaps. Though the Victorian Government
agreed to redeem the Commonwealth stock
in sums of £250,000 whenever required,
financial emergency legislation apparently
relieved it of its obligations; and so the co.
enviously watches the Electricity Commis-
sion making fine profits out of the business
that it got for nothing, while the interest
on the co.’s consideration money has been
scaled down by 224 p.c.. and ord. share-
holders, who were docked 24 p.c. in the last
term, look like suffering a further cut in the
present one.
The nature of the business has undergone
a complete change; it is now purely an in-
vestment co., as balance-sheet figures show:
„ . 1929. 1930. 1931.
Pref. capital . . £500,0.00. £500,000 £500,000
Old. capital . . 800,600 800,600 800,600
Debentures .. ..1,858,658 1,834,257 1,807,112
State loan . . . . 1,701,283 1,829,283
Other liabilities .. 550,951 364,685 123,174
Undertaking . . . . 5,326,279 5,019,066
Melb. Invest. Trust.. 673,300 673,300 673,300
Debtors, stores, etc... 456,447 408,108 42,350
Govt, securities . . 1,323 553
Cash, etc. .. . . 237,882 54,218 ’ 63,897
Govt, obligations . . —. 1,807,233
Reserves, mainly because of the Commis-
sion's revaluations, dropped from £1,127,993
in 1920 to £004,420 at August 31 last; at
that figure they appear to be nearly all
genuine profit. The Government stock is
discounted by about £70,000 on present
market valuations, while “Government obli-
gations, £1,807,233,” is merely a contra to
the debenture stock, the Victorian Govern-
ment having taken over the responsibility
for that item. The most interesting asset
is the co.'s holding, at par, in the Melbourne
Investment Trust Pty., which it entirely
owns.
The Investment Pty. passed along no divs.
during the period of control; all profits were
Last year it paid 6 p.c.
(£40,095), which, with other interest earn-
uigs, enabled the parent to show a net profit
of £100,481; that barely covered pref.
requirements and the ords.’ 74 p.c. The
loan conversion will mean a loss to the co
of £24,354 p.a. in gross revenue, equal to
o p.c. on ord. capital. Reserves of the pty.
are about. £200.000. which, with capital and
a handful of liabilities, are invested as fol-
lows: Inscribed stock, £140,240; mortgages
£103.150; Savings Bank stock, £9000;
debentures, £441.200; pref. shares, £17,350;
bank deposits, £lB.OOO. It has also advanced
£84,693 to the parent co.
Ignoring reserves in the subsidiary, the
fi ords, are backed by £1 15s. in net tan-
Amies, and the £5 prefs. by £l9 on the same
basis. At 265. tin l ords. return 5.8 pc.
on a 74 p.c. div. basis, or 4.6 p.c. if the dis-
tribution drops to 6 p.c. The 8 p.c. prefs.
can be had at par.
Producers Co-op. Distributing Society
• • TORe-
-1 rout. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1926.. 22,920 7 p.c. = 13,300 9,620 7,000
1927.. 23,643 7„„ 13,881 9,763
1928.. 15,434 7„ „ 14,164 U 270 4 032
1929.. 26,093 7„ ~ 15,475 10,618 14*650
Added goodwill, £15,350 1
1930.. 2,432 Nil i 2,432 | 1 »732
Doss.
1931.. 718 Nil _ 1,014
Shareholders in many organisations such
as the P.D.S. provide non-shareholders with
the advantages of co-operative marketing,
while they themselves derive only a nominal
benefit in the way of dividends. The P.D.S.
has been one of the pioneer farmers’ co-opera-
tive cos.; originally the Coastal Farmers’
Society, in 1925 it merged with its old com-
petitor, the Berrima Co., and adopted its
present title. About the same time the Norco
Co-op., which used to market its produce
in conjunction with the C.F.S.. broke away,
and established its own selling-floor in
Sydney.
Various overseas marketing schemes
though they helped to stabilise local prices’
have at times in the past eaten into earn-
ings, and bonuses and divs. have not been
regular. But, following the amalgamation,
commission charges were reduced all round
though last year, because of the collapse
m values, the co. was forced to increase them
slightly. For the term to Sept. 30 last there
was a heavier quantity of produce to handle.
but cash turnover fell off £852,928; thus the
figures were thrown all askew: —
* . , ’ —Exes. p.e. of —,
Commis- Com-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. .4,636,943 206.991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213.,,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4^825,978 : 198*,839 .195,907 £4/7/2 98.7 „
1931. .-3,973,050' 173,006 173,724 £4/7/- 100.1 „
Commission earnings dropped £25,333; exes,
were cut back £22,183, so the net result was
a loss of £7lB, and shareholders again went
hungry. It cost, aw extra ss, lOd. to market
each £lOO worth off produce.
In January, 1930, the business of J.
Mackey was bought for an unspecified
amount. The goodwill involved, however,
appears to have been £15,350. Partly
because of this purchase the more or less
liquid surplus (£92,713) has slipped £20,983
over the past two years, as this table shows:
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £198,311 £208,440 £207,218 £208,294
Overdraft . . 75,733 47,980 74,780 42,821
Other liabilities 258,261 229,829 180,137 152,984
Freeholds and ' <
leaseholds.. 68,366 66,966 62,158 60,387
Plant. . ... 33,180 31,275 35,003 29,680
Shares other cos. 26,970 26,270 26,270 26,543
Stocks . . 68,506 63,110 63,475 49,885
Book debts . . 134,682 307,271 265,174 228,501
Cash . . . . 19,304 21,124 13,803 10,132
Stocks (£49,885) are valued at £13,590
lower, and that is a move in the right direc-
tion. When the books closed at Sept. 30
the amount owing to consignors (£91,419)
was less than a third of the month’s turnover,
an indication of the co.’s prompt settling
policy. Trade debtors were kept well up to
the mark, too; they owed for less than three
weeks’ supplies.
The co. does not handle milk, though its
board is interlocked with the Dairyfarmers’
Co-op. Milk Co. Butter is the principal item
handled, and owing to the operation of the
Patterson scheme the producer off the article
has been on a better wicket than other pas-’
toralists. The exchange premium is help-
ing, too, though in other respects the out-
side market is not quite as favorable as it
might be.
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and
, —Dividend Tax— ■, Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c.= 20,527 10,161 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar., ’25.. 44,736 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 326 748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept„’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ ~ 24,655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 . . 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 . . 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 542,962
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ ~42,545 - 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 567,524
Mar., ’30.. 67.910 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500.16, ~ ~34,036 - 606 130
Mar., ’31.. 40,580 1500 16 ~ „ 34,036 611 174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 . 613,496
In August Westralia brought in a 4s. 6d. in
the £ reduction in rents as part of its finan-
cial emergency plan, and the new ’Federal
10 p.c. property income tax Was levied for:
most of the year; thus, during the latter
part of the term, the Swan’s income from
hotels suffered a direct 32§ p.c. cut. The effect;
will show up more in the current term;
during the year to Sept. 30 last the slip
in hotel earnings (£71,699) was £4169.-
Brewing profits have been hard-hit every-
where, and in the Swan’s case gross earn-
ings from this source (£137,303) dropped
£62,493 —the downward trend has been con-
stant over the last four years. Exes., in-
cluding £34,251 for taxation, were £24,315
lighter at £172,050 ; thus, allowing for £10,172
received from W.A. Glass Manufacturers (a
bottle-making subsidiary), and sundry re-
serve movements, ; the net result (£69,929 )
dropped a precipitous £48,258.
But the Swan is as snugly positioned as
any i brewery in the Commonwealth, and
after allowing for the prefs.’ small bite, the
profit was equal to 15.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 27.4, 25.8, 28.6 and 23.7 p.c.
back to 1927. The purchase of the Castle-
maine brewery in 1926 and the Emu in ’27
gave the co. practically a monopoly of the
trade in the West, and added £124,779 to its
visible reserves. For 20 years the div. was
steady at 16 p.c., with a 4 p.c. bonus during
the fatter periods, but during the latter half
of the past term the rate dropped to 12 p.c.,
making 14 p.e. for the year. Disclosed
reserves now stand at £613,496; thus, total
shareholders’ funds (£1,088,950) need to net
only a shade over 5 p.c. in order to satisfy
the prefs. and hand the ords. 12 p.c. ; actu-
ally, 6.4 p.c. was shown last year. ’ The
board, mentioning the heavy ’ allowances
for depreciation in the past, said that the
old habits have not been varied, and that
the figures presented are on a conservative
basis.
The financial structure is solid:
„ , Sept.,’2s. Sept.,’3o. Sept.,’3l.
Capital £358,190 £475,454 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc.* 47,211 115,267 113 769
Other liabilities . . 80,939 89,354 67’99l
Freehold and plant . . 663,051 99i,261 986 33S
Mortgages .. . . 51,988 > 41,253 48’796
Stocks 62,111 65,206 61,’736
Shares in other cos. .. 6,897 111,722 111 729
Book debts .. .. 49,722 91,951 53 739
Cash, etc 2,255 20,347 3MIB
includes goodwill accruing.-
The co. has never, made a habit of keeping
much idle cash about; since 1925 £947,101
of surplus earnings has been invested in
hotels, which last year showed a return of
over 10 p.c. on their written-down book
value. In the six years £217,399 of the
amount spent on the brewery has been
charged to capital, and £188,062 visibly
written off the item out of earnings. The
amount declared to have been struck off
hotels in the same period is £52,174, but
writing off out of net profits is not the only
way breweries have of providing for wear
and tear and contingencies.
Liabilities appear at £67,991 in the bal-
ance-sheet ; in addition, accounts in credit,
goodwills accruing, etc., figure at £113,769!
At the meeting the chairman disclosed that
total outside liabilities were £101,112, so
that “goodwills accruing,” which - appear to
be in the nature of a contingency reserve,
amount to £80,648. Ignoring this item, the
more or less liquid surplus, including stocks
and mortgages, but not shares, totals
£98,570.
At 555. the 255. ords. are firmer than 12
months ago. The scrip is visibly backed by
60s. 7d. in net tangibles, and the return is
5.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The well-
protected profs, are not often dealt in.
W. E. Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written Re-
Oct., PrbSts. Dividends. Off. serves.
•’£ £ £ £
1919.. .... 9678 12* p.c. = 5624 1034 12,590
Co. reconstructed, visible and internal re-
serves capitalised, and goodwill included at
£7522 (not treated as an asset hereunder).
To Re-
serves. Deficit.
1920.. .. 12,594 8 p.c. = 8000 4594 2,928
1921.. .. 4,751 5 „ „ 5000 3,177
1922.. .. 6,381 6 ~ „ 6000 381 2,799
1923.. .. 7,515 6 „ „ 6000 1515 1,281
Reserves.
1924.. .. 6,532 6 „ „ 6000 1632 261
1925.. .. 5,376 5 „ „ 5000 376 627
1926.. .. 6,562 5 „ „ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 „ ~ 5000 2387 4,576
1928.. ~ 7,027 5 ~ „ 5000 2027 6,603
1929. . .. 7,092 5 „ ~ 5000 2092 8,695
1930.. .. 4,284 Nil 4284 12,979
Loss. -
1931.. .. 8,767 Nil —4,212
The co. had a sick baby to nurse for several
year's after it bought the business in 191-2.
In 1915 £30.000, representing two-fifths of
the capital, was struck off. mainly to write
down over-valued assets. Then in the arti-
ficial post-war prosperity the board fell into
the common error and reconstructed ; on the
strength of values which were thought fo
exist paid capital advanced in one leap from
£45,000 to £lOO,OOO, at which figure it still
remains.
Since that date shareholders have averaged
only 4.3 p.c. p.a., equal, certainly, to 10.8 p.c.
on the capital, as it stood before the writing
up. The problem has been to get overhead
down ; and the specialty house and small-job
printer are nearly always able to quote a
bit lower than the general stationer.
After writing off p.c. (£5371) depre-
ciation on plant, and taking stock at £9130
lower (partly because of the 5 p.c. drop in
the exchange), gross profit (£22.553) last
year fell £14,681. Exes, were cut back
only £1630; thus the net. result was a loss of
£8767, a slip of £13,051 compared with 1930.
and once again the ords. had to go with-
out, The board blames the heavy'. cost of
importing (owing to the exchange and emer-
gency tariff), and keen competition■' for the
reduced business offering.
Last year, because of the loss, finances
slipped £6633 : :
1923. 1925. 1930. 1931.
Stocks . . . . £50,577 £53,280 £53,943 £44,813
Book debts, etc. .. 22,245 16,110 . 19,293 14,202
Cash . . . . 4,942 2,972 1.889 3,539
£77,764 £72,362 £75,125 £62,554
Liabilities.. .. 9,920 54,738 53,334 47,396
Liquid surplus .. £67,844 £17,624 £21,791 £15,158
The debt includes a mortgage of £16,600 and
£22,500 of 7 p.c. debentures got in to finance
the move to Georgc-street seven years ago;
the latter were worked down at the rate of
£lOOO a year for some time, but only £5OO
was paid off in the last term. Though claimed
to be liberally written down, the book value
of fixed assets (£89,893) has dropped only
£3140 in the last two years.
The market looks at the £50.355 invested
in freeholds (not a very profitable asset these
days), the interest-bearing debt and the
dubious outlook, and pays only 4s. for the
scrip. The backing (on book figures) is
21s. lOd.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


Reasons which prove
DIINLOP LEADERSHIP
Leadership ... is Established and Maintained by
Achievement... In every particular of importance to
motorists, Dunlop has established a record for leadership
nnapproached by any other tyre in the world.
\
w
to
1.
2
3
4
5
6
7,
S
9
Leads in Public Demand. Frequently pub-
lished census figures prove that the motor tyres
made by Dunlop Perdriau far outnumber in use in
Australia those of any other make.
More than 5,000,000 Dunlop Tyres
Made in Australia. Easily surpassing the com-
bined output of all other tyre makers.
Greatest Amount of Invested Capital. The
organisation producing the Dunlop Tyre has over
£4,000,000 of Australian capital invested in it.
This is many times greater than the amount of Aus-
tralian money invested in any similar business.
Leads in Number of People Employed.
More people are employed in Australia in the
organisation producing Dunlop Tyres than in any
other similar business, over 10,000 people being
directly and indirectly supported.
Dunlop is Made for Australian Condi-
tions. Dunlop is the only tyre that embodies the
unique knowledge gained through 30 years of prac-
tical testing under Australian conditions.
First to Perfect Pneumatic Tyres. In Great
Britain, in 1888, Dunlop perfected the Pneumatic
Tyre, thus making motoring possible.
First to Build Balloon Tyres. The organisa-
tion producing Dunlop was the first to develop
Balloon Tyres in Australia. Dunlop to-day gives a
degree of motoring comfort never before attained.
First in Australia to Build Giant Truck
Tyres— thus leading in the development of heavy
motor transport in this country.
Bolds World’s Speed Becord. The two great-
est land speed records —231.3 miles per hour by
Sir Henry Segrave and 245.7 miles per hour by
Sir Malcolm Campbell—were made on Dunlop
Tyres. The invaluable data thus obtained —pos-
sessed only by Dunlop—is passed on to users in the
form of stronger and more dependable tyres.
These are some of the reasons why the great
majority of Tyre Traders throughout Australia are recommending Dunlop.
rm
DUNLOP
The 6reat Australian Tyre
As British as the Empire
Ss
I
s
58FPB


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— -Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
*** ' *
The non-corrosive qualities of Pioneer Wood Pipe
are of the most vital interest to those responsible
for water-supply undertakings. This excellent con-
duit cannot corrode, ana definitely carries a full
bore of water throughout its life. In addition,
Pioneer W ood Pipe is light, yet so strong and durable
that it ensures many years of trouble-free service
at •an absolute minimum of upkeep cost. It is
cheaper to buy and instal than metal pipe, and is
unaffected by heat, frost or electrolysis. Full par-
ticulars on request to The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* 'l' ❖ Jji
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonator*
Cartridges
If Making
a new WILL
owing to your altered financial position, consider
appointing as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited). Its qualifications
include Security, Experience and Expert Manage-
ment. Call or write for free explanatory booklet
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
B. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) j W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTI). AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA NSW
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Bergius” : Out of hundreds of processes
experimented with for extracting petrol and
lubricating oils from coal, engineers are now
convinced that the hydrogenation system, in
which hydrogen, obtained from either coal
gas or water, is forced under high pressure
into highly-heated line coal, gives the bright-
est hope of commercial success. Imperial
Chemical Industries, the big chemical manu-
facturing group in England which has had
a test plant in operation at Billingliam, now
releases some interesting details, the result
of several years’ work. The plant has a
capacity of 15 tons of black coal daily, which
yields about 10 tons of petrol. But fuel con-
sumption, etc., is heavy, so that actually it
takes 3| tons coal to make one ton petrol.
The cost of a plant erected in-England to
produce 200,000 tons of petrol annually is
estimated to be eight million pounds, and
the cost of petrol is given as 7d. per gallon.
Australia is vitally interested, in such an
undertaking. At the present time we import
160,000 tons of petrol annually—about half
our pre-depression consumption, To estab-
lish a plant to meet present requirements, an
expenditure of not less than £12,000,000
(Australian money) is indicated. The coal
required would be about 600,000 tons annu-
ally. Such a plant would keep a great
amount of money in Australia, besides
materially assisting the quiescent coal-mining
industry and providing employment for
hundreds.
*s* < #
“I),A.”: Shareholders in Bougainville Gold
Options got a. rebuff when they saw the
report and surveys of Hockey and Church, of
the B. IT. Prop. Over 280 samples were
assayed; every sample giving positive results
for gold, ranging from a trace up to 1.40 z.,
and copper uj) to 5 p.c. Yet, in the opinion
of Hockey and Church, there was little hope
of the Kupei mine developing into a work-
able property, and it offered no attrac-
tions to the Prop. However, Banks, formerly
of the Waihi (MX.), after looking over the
property, selected two points for driving, and
shareholders decided to go ahead with
development. 'This has now been completed.
In the first drive values weakened at 30ft.,
and a new drive (No. 3) was carried on for
12ft. For the full distance samples averaged
13dwt. gold and 3.56 p.c. copper, and at the
end loz. 6gr. gold. No. 2 drive has continued
for 68ft., where, according’to the' manager,
the main lode has been struck. The island
appears to be a very large mineralised area,
without defined boundaries.
=i= * * *
Tasmanian mining during last year was
not profitable. The Electrolytic Zinc Co.
was unable, owing to low prices, to ope-
rate the big treatment plant on the huge
deposits of rich, though complex, ore at Read-
Rosebery.- A successful treatment process
has been discovered,, but profitable. working
still largely depends on world metal prices.
The co.’s treatment works at Risdon have
been kept going with a slight increase in
production for the year, but the Magnet and
North Mt. Farrell mines have to wait - for
better prices before employees will be on
full pay again. Mt. Bisclioff tinmine has been
worked by tribute parties.for.small rewards,
but. the flood of 1929 put the Briseis out of
action, and its recovery is doubtful. The
brightest spot in the whole picture has been
Lyell’s record 1931 yield of 9949 tons of
copper, worth £620,678.
* =s= * *
Magnet Silver Mining Co., operating at
Magnet (Tas.), a few miles from Bischoff,
closed down when the slump in lead and
silver came. Recently another start was
made, the company receiving a grant of
£l5O per month from the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment, and the miners £2 per week,
together with 45 p.c. of the realised value
of the ore after the grant is repaid. The
lodes, which occur in dolomite, are rich but
patchy. When working to capacity and
mining about 30,000 tons annually, the mine
employed 110 men. The company is now
treating only about 180 tons weekly. What
is most needed is a small flotation plant.
* * * *
Lake View claims to be on the upgrade.
Appreciation in the value of gold has
enabled it to accelerate development, speed
up plant erection and partly pay off a debt
of £61,000 to New Consolidated Goldfields,
which it couldn’t otherwise have done.
Further, as a result of bringing its 30,000-
tons-a-month treatment plant into full opera-
tion it expects to be free from debt and be
able to earn something for shareholders by
the middle of this year. According to
chairman Agnew a very large sum, made up
of profits re-invested, and new money sub-
scribed and borrowed, has been expended in
resuscitating the Lake ATew from an almost
moribund condition.
* ■ # * *
“O.B.”: As Wiluna’s profits are substan-
tial some admirers wonder why the market
doesn’t soar. The reason is probably this.
The co„ which has a paid-up share capital
of £1,000,000, also has £300,000 worth of
10 p.c. notes redeemable at a premium of
20 p.c. on Dec. 31, 1937. and a further
£300,000 of 6 p.c. seven-year notes (guaran-
teed by the Commonwealth) repayable in
half-yearly instalments of £25,000 commenc-
ing on June 30 next. It has also borrowed
a substantial amount from the Horseshoe
co., and this, too, must be wiped out before
anything can be put aside for shareholders.
Golden Horseshoe’s accounts to Sept. 30
last reveal a sound financial position. Assets
include cash in London £38,524, ditto in
Australia £37,140, loans against securities
£28,810, investments in other cos. £28,132,
sundry debtors £21,701. Liabilities are
under £20,000. Last year’s profit from old
tailings treatment, after chipping off a big
hunk for preliminary exes and depreciation,
was £11,770. Shareholders will probably
receive something towards the end of this
year.
* * * *
Kimberley Oil Options directors might do
well to give their Edjudina mine manager
his head a bit. The mine has not turned out
as well as was hoped, but has not done
badly. The manager wants to sink 100 ft.
below the bottom level, but the directors,
because the mine is situated on a lake floor,
assume that deeper sinking would flood it
out. This is contrary to Westralian mining
experience, for many of the State’s best div.
payers were situated near lakes. On the
other hand, Edna May, distant from lake
country, bottomed on the West’s greatest
spout, but this did not prevent a long run of
divs. Gold, if there is enough of it, will
beat water every time.
>!= ❖ * #
Consolidated Goldfields’ interest in Gold
Mines of Australia’s Queensland mines was
described by its chairman in London the
other day as a real good thing. Carl Lind-
berg had reported, after a special examina-
tion of these shows, that there was plenty
of ore in sight and that prospects of the
main shoot living and lengthening in depth
were very promising. Consolidated Gold-
fields lias a capital of £6,500,000. It is inter-
ested in Wiluna, Lake View, and mining cos.
operating in Transvaal, Rhodesia, America
and elsewhere.
* - * * *
“Cuzinjan”: Grease tables, widely used in
S’Africa to catch diamonds, are now being
adopted in that country to recover gold and
mineral from finely-crushed ore. In some
cases the tables take the place of the amal-
gamating plates, but usually supplement
them, being used instead of the expensive
gravity concentrating table. Those operat-
ing small batteries without concentrating
table should try out the grease table for the
recovery of pyrite, which in most mines
carries several ounces per ton gold, but which
passes away with the tailings. Amalgamation
plates are being largely superseded in Africa
by blanket strakes, which effectively collect
coarse and fine gold as well as pyrite. The
blankets are taken up and washed daily.
This method of gold collection can be
adopted with a minimum of expense.
* * * *
“Cartel”: Restriction schemes are now in
operation embracing zinc, copper, lead,
aluminium, platinum, silver and tin. About
the only metal whose output is not restricted
is gold. Such schemes in general are
attempts to bring production dow T n to con-
sumption by allotting to individual producers
a quota output, the hope being, of course,
to raise the price. Recently these schemes
have met with considerable criticism, the
view being taken that by raising the price
of a metal, mines that are really unprofitable
at an unbolstered price are kept in opera-
tion and continue' to contribute their quota.
Conditions would improve more rapidly, it
is claimed,_ if low-grade mines were shut
down pending the return of better metal
prices. This method is, in the long run,
more satisfactory from the shareholders’
viewpoint, since the ore in the mine is not
then taken out at no, or at best a small,
profit.
* * * *
“Pb. ’: For the half-year ended December,
1925, there were 131 cases of lead-poisoning
among 2615 employees at Port Pirie
Smelters. That was equal to 5 p.c.; but for
the half-year to June, 1931, there were only
four cases among 1500 employees (0.26 p.c.).
Thus in six years lead-poisoning has been
reduced to one-twentietli its former propor-
tion. When the alterations in the refinery
are completed and the new methods of de-
golding and de-silvering the lead bullion are
in_ operation, it is hoped that lead-poisoning
will be non-existent, and, incidentally, that
the cost of smelting will be the lowest in
the world.
* * * *
Those great helps to Westralian gold-
seekers, the State batteries and cyanide
plants, have extracted between them nearly
£7,000,000 worth of bullion to date, and are
now treating more stuff than for years past.
Most of them are on the eastern and north-
ern fields. The furthest north is at Pilbarra,
and the southernmost at Norseman.
* * * *
New Modderfontein, one of the giants of
the Rand, distributed £1,855,000 during its
last fiscal year. Government Gold Areas,
which pays a large slab of its profits to
tlie Union Government, was able to scatter
£1,200,000, and ranks second on the list.
In all 16 mines on the Rand or-thereabouts
paid divs. oi more than £lOO,OOO each. The
total divs. paid by 24 cos. on or near the
Rand for the year was £8,641,30!);
their declared working profits aggregated
£13.661,408. Largest div. payers among
goldmines in other parts of the world were
Hollinger, £689,000; Lake Shore, £600,000;
Teck Hughes, £575,000 (all three in
Ontario) ; Noranda (Quebec), £1,120,000;
Homestake (U.S.A.), £402,000.
* * * :i:
Liiclcnow Pups is asking shareholders to
enter into an agreement with one of the
directors, R. C. Symons, to work portion
of the co.’s holdings on tribute for two years.
The co. is to receive 10 per cent, of the
net return of gold and other minerals won.
The. tributor is to have the right of ex-
tending the agreement on the same terms
for a further three years, and may include
further portions of the lease, with an option
over part of the freehold and mining rights
for £3OOO.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I had a £25 first-issue bond in N.Z. Per-
petual Forests . Ltd. / understood that the
money was always available plus 5 p.c.
Recently / wrote for my cash; and was in-
formed I could not get it, “having exercised
my option .” Can you explain that?— 7B32.
The position was clearly traced in these
columns when the co, sent out a circular
asking first-issue bondholders to decide 'which
they would do—take their money or accept
the net proceeds of the realisation > of the
forests. Of course the co.’s circular was
drafted in such a way as to suggest that
it would be far better for the bondholders
to take the latter course. That the demand
for the return of the money might be awk-
ward for the co. wasn’t even hinted at,
though it was mentioned here. A great
number of bondholders accepted the option
I—without1 —without knowing what they were doing, it
is to be feared. It is merely another in-
stance of a small investor neglecting to
watch the “Wild Cat” pages. . The “ big
investor can usually get information else-
where ; the small investor can’t, as a rule.
In an article on forestry bonds in the
January Wild Cat' Monthly" / notice at
the conclusion it is said that “until they form
themselves into a limited co. bondholders
have unlimited liability." I am a holder of
several bonds on behalf of my family, and,
though an accountant, I must say that, this
aspect never occurred to me. Would this
apply to bonds in N.Z. Perpetual Forests
and other similar cos.? —7901.
. Bondholders, not being registered as a
limited co., certainly have unlimited liability.
The main point, though, is to what extent,
the bond-selling co. can incur
liabilities on their behalf. An agent cannot
exceed its express or implied. authority, and
most forestry cos. agree to bear all costs
until marketing commences. From then on-
wards, however, bondholders carry on at
their own risk. Some cos. will probably
have faded right out by the time the timber
is grown, and that may be awkw-ard for the
bondholders. Cos. still in existence, as the
N.Z.P.F. _ should undoubtedly be, would do
well to immediately advise bondholders to
form into a co.
(1) Can I float a co. without putting
up much of the capital myself? (2) Could
I retain control with a small proportion of
the capital? (3) What does it cost to regis-
ter a co.? (4) Must a co. be registered
before shares are sold? (5) Being the pro-
moter, can I allot myself free shares? (6)
How many directors must there be? (7)
What, besides the articles of association,
must be registered? —7B92.
(1) Yes; you need take only one share.
(2) You would need to have the articles
so framed (by a solicitor) that your shares
could outvote the rest of the shareholders,
(o) Depends on the capital; actual registra-
tion feds would probably cost only a few
pounds, but legal and printing expenses would
very likely cost £lOO or more. (4) No; but
before registration the promoters are held
liable for the co.’s debts, etc. (5) Not
“free” shares; but you can put a high price
on your services re the promotion, and take
it out in shares. This would have to be
disclosed in the prospectus, and the contract
between yourself and the co. registered,
otherwise you might be called upon to pay
up your “free” shares in cash. (6) Depends
on the articles. Some cos. have only one.
(7) The memorandum.
Supposing, for argument's sake, the note
issue to be 200 millions, would an increase
of 20 millions decrease the actual value of
every note by one-tenth? —79l3.
Not necessarily. It depends upon the
demand for the notes. Thus every year
just before Christmas a few million extra
notes are issued, because they are wanted;
they flow back after the extra Christmas
demand for currency is over. The issue and
the withdrawal are both made in order to
keep the value as stable as possible.
(1) Is England off the gold standard 9
//so, what standard is recognised there?
(2) Is Australia off the gold standard? If
so, wibQt is the stOrtadrOrd here now? TSOO
We are both “off” the gold standard This
means that we can’t anywhere get gold for
our notes. Our domestic standard is our
own paper currency. But for international
purposes—for trading outside our own boun-
daries—we still have to recognise the gold
standard. In other words, both Australia
and Britain have to pay more than £lOO in
their own notes to buy the American dollar
equivalent of 100 sovereigns.
(l)/s there any demand for rutile in Aus-
tralia? (2) Any buyers in Sydney 9 (3)
Any rutile deposits in Australia? (41 Com.
mercial use? —7s76.
/o <l)TJtfle or none. (2) Cannot find one.
(d) Rutile is known to occur in the beach
sands in N.S.W. and Queensland The con-
centrated sands contain from 7 p.c. to 18
p.c. rutile. Rutile occurs in a lode in South
Aus. (4) Rutile is titanium dioxide.
Titanium dioxide is used principally in the
manufacture of paint known as titanium
white. It has great covering power is of
dazzling whiteness, and is very durable.
Some titanium alloys are produced.
(1) Arc the Producers and Citizens'
Assurance Co. and the Farmers and Settlers'
Co-op. still in existence? (2) If so what
ares their: addresses? (3) Are the shares of
any value? —7626.
(1) The life eo. is. and if you mean the
Farmers and Graziers’ that is, too. (2)
IV and C. Building, Elizabeth-street, Syd-
ney : Circular Quay, Sydney. (3) See
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for October, 1931
and February, 1932.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
1.M.T.: Doubtful about them. They own
much property, and may have to write it down
heavily out of trading profits. ... J.E.D;: (1) Write
lilley and Co., Union Bank Chambers, Pitt-street.
(2) Commission varies; generally there is no buy-
ing commission. (3) No minimum or maximum.
. ...Amnis: The loss is not so alarming as it looks.
Much of it probably nearly all of it —-consists of
bad and doubtful debts—or amounts written off
stocks.... XYZ: (1) Not enough activity in the
scrip. (2) Last sale for the ords. about 145.,
May, 1930. Sellei’s asked 15s. about six months
ago, but buyers made no offers E.M. : See B.
23/12/’3l. Inquire whether, upon paying the £2O,
you can get a paid-up policy. That appears to be
the best thing D.J.S.: (1) It is the largest
and best-managed of the bunch. (2) The areas
certainly appear to have been planted (the trustees
certify to that) ; but for how long we cannot say.
(3) If the money is of little importance, you may
as well go on ; if not, since the investment. cannot
be described as safe, better draw out. The c'o.
has the right to sue for breach of contract, but
probably won’t. .. . A.T.: Having gone so .far you
may as well pay the balance. It is a pure specula-
tion. ... .M.E.H.: Better keep on with the policy.
The co. is one of the most promising of the
youngsters and has nearly turned the corner
E.W. : Have no records on “Wood-pulping Co., Ltd.
(N.Z.).” R.V.L.: Quite sound, though bonus pros-
pects are not as good as some. . . ,A. 8.: (l) No. (2)
Don’t think so. (3) A very unsafe assumption.
Belvidere: We think it is rubbish J.E. (Bris-
bane); You can write the Empire shares off. A.P.A.
paid 21 p.c. for some years past, but none last
year ; worth about ss. Southern Cross not yet
reached dividend stage; shares not quoted, but the
secretary might know a buyer F.L.24: Exchange
rate is not exactly fixed by the Commonwealth
Bank, but every Friday that bank announces the
rate at which it will do business. This, however,
does not prevent others from doing business at
either higher or lower rates. Present Common-
wealth Bank rate is 125 ; business is said to have
been done outside at £123 10s., which suggests
that the tendency is downwards.


“JUNIOR” models crush 7 tons per head per week, requiring f h.p., and are
complete with amalgam table.
“SENIOR” models, crushing 25 tons, requiring 4 h.p. per head, are complete with
amalgam and concentration tables. Both outfits are equipped with pump, water tank
and connections ready for immediate operation.
Balanced running and light weight obviate the necessity of expensive foundations,
bed logs only being required.
A most important feature is their portability.
Outputs quoted are for clean, hard quartz, and all figures are definitely guaranteed.
Recent orders received from—
Commonwealth Government
West Australian Government
Queensland (private mines) .... 4
Victoria 2
New South Wales 1
These plants can be supplied and erected by competent mining engineers in any part
of Australia.
Write for full particulars and technical details to —
HI-SPEED BATTERY U MINING PLANT PTY., LTD.,
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams: Ablittise.
Telephone: C 450.
TECHNICAL BOOKS
ON A VARIETY OF SUBJECTS.
Modern Painters’ Cyclopedia, by Make, 13/6; House Painting Methods with Brush and Spray
Gun, by Vanderwalker, 13/6; The Mixing of Colors and Paints, by Vanderwalker, 13/6; Auto-
mobile Painting, by Vanderwalker, 10/6; New Hardwood Finishing (including Staining and
Polishing), by Hodgson, 10/6; The Concrete Year Book. 1929, 6/6 for 2/6, posted; Foundations
and Machinery Fixing, by Davies, 4/3 ; Fitting and Turning, with Q’s and A’s, by Hanley, 3/3 ;
Domestic Electric Heating, by Solomon, 5/3 ; ABC Dynamo Design, by Avery, 4/9 ; Magneto
, Manual, by Lanjman, 11/6; Rotary and Motor Converters, by Smith, 11/6; Gauges at a Glance,
by Taylor, 11/3 ; Electricity for Marine Engineers, by Ibbetson, 8/- ; Watch and Clockmakers’
Handbook Dictionary and Guide, by Britten, 19/- ; Watchmakers’ Handbook, by Saunier, 19/-;
Prospecting for Gold, by Idriess, 5/6; Railway Signalling, by Dutton, 11/6; Getting Gold —-
ABC of Prospecting in Australia, 2/9 ; Working of Steam Boilers, by Hillier, 5/6; Modern
Photography, 18/6 ; Advertising Response, by Donovan, 11/-; Retail Advertising and Selling,
by Hall. 16/-; Practical Hints on Presswork, by St. John, 18/6; Printing for the Journalist, by
Allen, 9/6; Land and Engineering Surveying, by Baker and Leston, 5/6; Dynamo Design and
Construction, by Avery, 5/6; Saws, Their Treatment and Care, by Durham, 9/6; Cabinetmakers’
Guide by R. Bitmead, 5/6; Instructions in Wood Carving for Amateurs, 4/-; Stairbuilding and
the Steel Square, by Hodgson and Williams, 7/-; Turner’s Metal Plate Workers’ Companion, 5/-;
p
LUMBERS
& STEAM FITTERS
A Practical Trade Assistant
Audel’s Plumbers and Steamfitters’ Guides (4 Vols.).
A new set—just out! A practical, fully illustrated Trade Assistant
for Master Plumbers, Journeymen and Apprentice Steamfitters—Gasfitters
and Helpers, Sheet-metal Workers, Draughtsmen, Master Builders, Engineers
and all Building Trade Students.
Price 39/-, Post Free.
Metal Plate Work —Principles and Processes, by Barrett, 5/6; Carpentry and Joinery, by Tred-
gold and Tarn, 7/3 ; Modern Furniture Veneering, by Hobbs, 8/-; Household Repairs and Reno-
vations, Woodworker Series, 5/6; Furniture Repairing, Woodworker Series, 5/6; Electrical
Equipment of Automobiles, by Smith, 8/- ; The Mechanism of the Car, by Judge, 4/-;
The Petrol Engine—Handbook on all Types of Petrol Engines, 6/6; Hoisting Machinery, by
Horner, 13/- ; Applied Mechanics, by Oyer and Jordan, 8/- ; Electric Arc and Oxy-Acetylene
Welding, by E. A. Atkins, 12/-; Rogers’ Erecting and Operating Machinery, 13/6; Rogers’
Machinists’ Guide in Machine Shop Practice, 13/6; Constructional Steelworks, by Harry Atkin,
17/6 ; Cellulose Lacquers—-A Practical Handbook on Manufacture, by Smith, 10/- ; The Efficient
Boiler House, by Simmons, 8/- ; Brickwork, by F. Walker, 4/3 ; Gas 'and Oil Engine Management,
by M. P. Bale, 5/6; Engineers’ and Machinists’ Handbook, by Golding, 5/6; Gas and Oil
Engines, by P. O. Campbell, 5/6 ; Model Yachts and Motorboats, by Hobbs, 8/-; Small Boat Build-
ing/by 11. W. Patterson, 6/6; Motor-boat Manual—Section on Outboard Motors, 9/-; Model Boat
Building for Boys, by .1. Cavileer, 12/-; Outboard Motor-boat Book—Plans, Specifications’ and
Building Instructions, by Chapman, 16/-; Twenty Easy-to-Build Motor-boats, by Chapman, 11/6;
THE AUSTRALIAN HOME CRAFTSMAN
BOOK FOR AMATEURS AND EXPERTS.
FULLY ILLUSTRATED BY ALEX. SMITH.
2/3 —Special Price, 1/3, Posted.
Process of Electrotyping, 3/9; Way to Sketch, by Blake, 11/6; Scent and All About It, by
Redgrave, 5/6; Bricks and Tiles—Elementary Treatise, 8/-; Practical Plasterer, by Kemp, 5/- ;
Gears and Gear-cutting by Gates, 8/-; Engineering Workshop Manual, by Pull. 4/-; Concrete
Handbook —Practical Plans for Using Concrete About the Home, etc., 7/- ; Piano—Scientific.
Technical and Practical Instruction, by Spillane, 11/-; Repair of Piano and Player Mechanism,
Together with Tuning as Science and Art, by White, 11/-; Wireless Communication and Broad-
casting, 2/-; Modern Valves, by Ralph Stranger, 2/-; Mathematics of Wireless, by Ralph
Stranger, 2/ ; Electrified Matter, by Ralph Stranger, 2/-; Electronic Currents, by Ralph
Stranger, 2/-; Scenic Modelling, by Hobbs, 2/9; Easy Furniture Building, 2/9; Leather'Working
- —Practical, 2/9; Wood Turning Made Easy, 2/9.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS.
m
1
m
$
- J
til
m
■
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
■
m
m
h O*va 4 HARDV f. SONS V*
°£LAII/1, Do'JRWt t svCN
/
m
x
S SS?
S 2
Bit ACH g B'UEXCM K- .•!■
ua
HARDY’S
WINES
TINTARA
YOU MUSTGET
:
m
ALFRED J. BRITON.
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture
Magazine.”
MIRACLES IN MUSCLE!
You hear everybody talking about them.
Physical culture authorities are amazed.
Think of it! Men made over almost over-
night. Puny, sickly weaklings transformed
into superb specimens of MANHOOD! Strong
men made STRONGER. This astounding new
method works its wonders for ALL —young
or old, sick or well. Incredible! Yes! But
this is an age of marvels.
We speed across continents by aeroplane,
where once we plodded by stage coach. We
talk through the air by radio, where once
we depended upon slow-footed couriers. And
now BRITON brings to physical culture the
greatest advance of the century —BRITON,
the pioneer, the first in the field—to-day, as
always, is years ahead of his time./ Briton
training—the original, the genuine, .the sys-
tem that has built the world’s great strong
men —still sets the pace—startling new
developments made it the most modern sys-
tem of body-building in the world. Ordinary
systems become as old-fashioned as the one-
horse shay in comparison. Briton training
accomplishes almost overnight what other sys.
terns can never accomplish in months and years '
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. 6, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STRONG/
To-day, as never before,
you need great strength.
J7OR years I have been showing you
what can be done for men who lack
development proving to you that
unless a man is on his deathbed I’ve
got the greatest thing in the world
to offer him! I’ve shown you dozens of
different photos, of pupils taught in
their own homes; I’ve backed this up
with hundreds of wonderful letters from
men who had before given up hope—•
now comes the big surprise!
I Want You Next!
JSJEW Sensational —Extraordinary!
The greatest demonstration of
muscle-building known to the world
of physical culture! YOU can be next!
Almost overnight I’ll transform you
into a marvel of muscular power—give
you astonishing new health, strength
and vitality.
The Greatest Book of the
Century—lS FREE! !
Never before has any book created such
a sensation, never before has it been
possible to show such overwhelming
PROOF in amazing photos and letters,
and now you may get this great book
FREE if you send the coupon AT ONCE !
MAIL NOW
WPJS'*I
IX Alfred J. Briton, Dept. 6, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir—Please send me, absolutely FREE,
JIS and without any obligation on my part whatso-
ever, a copy of your latest book, “The Secrets
of Muscular Strength—and How to Acquire It.”
Send 2d. stamp to defray postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
B. 20/l/’32.


Hie Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bui let i n"T?u iff! i n qs
252 Georqe Street,
s V D N E. Y
See announcement page 33.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Florodora”
S' rATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
® OYAL “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King's “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
Modern Realism.
OK "OTHELLO" RE-WRIŢEN.
[Having been attacked on both flanks on the
Red Page with regard to his ideas on Realism in
Literature, “M.G.S.” retreats to the security of a
column where he can select his own weapons. For
their valuable assistance in the composition of the
following essay, he wishes to thank “J.D.”
and Louis Esson; also Noel Coward and other
modern English playwrights. Any errors of fact
destroying the illusion of reality may be attri-
buted to writer having mislaid his “Encyc. Brit.”]
A Bedchamber in the Castle. Desdemona
in bed asleep. A light burning.
Enter Othello. He is dressed as if he
Enter Othello.
has been to a
theatre. He doffs
his opera hat and
telescopes 'it, re-
moves his cloak
and draws off his
yellow suede
gloves. Lulling
t h e s e articles
carefully on a
chair, he goes
over to Desdc-
mona’s bed, and,
turning up the
reading lamp,
gazes down on
the sleeper.
Othello: “I
must weep. But
they are cruel tears; this sorrow’s heavenly.
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes!”
Desdemona: “Who’s there? Othello?”
O.: “Ay, Desdemona !”
f). sits up and immediately busies herself
with lipstick, powder, etc., meanwhile arrang-
ing her features to meet the situation. She
then slips out of bed, puts a rose-colored
peignoir over her slumber suit, and grace-
fully sinks on to the sofa. These prelimi-
naries achieved, she looks for the first time
at her husband,
D.: “Cigarette, please.”
O.:-“Only got stinkers.”
D.: “They’ll do. Match?”
O.: “No matches—lighter?”
D.: “It’ll do. Thanks.”
"Okay. Cigarette. Thanks. Thanks. No,
thanks. Thanks.” (Beautiful line—real
realism.)
The cigarette ceremony .having been com-
puted,. .. x
O.: “Have you prayed to-night, Desde- ,
mona?”- -
IX : “Ay, my lord. Hell, these fags 1 of
yours won't draw for nuts!”
O.“ Light?” . . I;
D.: “Thanks.” :,,■■■ ■ -
Pause. Othello sits, down beside, her. Takes
cigarette 'out. of. case. T.dps cigarette on, lid.
Puts cigarette in' mouth. Feels"in all‘'his '
pockets for lighter. Finally discovers he lias l
placed, it on table. Lights up.
O.: “If you bethink yourself of, any
crime, unreconciled >as yet to Heaven and
grace,-solicit .for it straight.” •:
I).: “Alas! my lord, what may you mean-
by that?”
“Some bloody passion , shakes your very frame ”
O.: “Well, do it, and be brief; I will
walk by; I would not kill thy unprepared
spirit; no; Heaven forfend! I would‘not-
hin thy soul.”
D.: “Talk you of killing?”
O.: “Ay, I do.
I).: “Then pass over that ashtray and
Heaven have mercy on me.”
O.: “Amen ! with all my heart.”
I).: “If you say so, I hope you will not
kill me.”
O.: “Hum!”
D.: “And yet I fear you; for you are
fatal then when your eyes roll so. Why I
should fear I know not, since guiltiness I
know not; but yet I feel I fear.”
O.: “Think on thy sins.”
D.: “They are loves I bear to you.”
f). “Ay and for that thou diest.”
D.: “That death’s unnatural that kills for
loving. Alas! why gnaw you so your nether
lip? Some bloody passion shakes your very
frame. These are portents, but yet, I hope,
I hope they do not point on me. Have a
whisky ?”
O.: “Thanks.”
D.: “Over there on the sideboard.”
O.: “Thanks.
You?”
I>.: “A .small
one.”
O.: “Soda?”
D.: “Water.”
O.: “O per-
jur’d woman!
Thou dost
stone my
hear t, and
mak’st me call
what I intend
to do a mur-
der, which I
thought a sac-
rifice.”
D.: “Don’t
drown it.”
Desdemona sits up.
è
forfeiture of her' in-
come should she make
a second trip to* the
altar. She likes the
young man but' not
that' much,, and leaves
him hammering on* the
door. Undaunted’Max
takes 'up 1 the pursuit
next; day. . .Rosine re-
fuses to see .him, but
he . finally secures
admission, to he r
apartment, and in the,
bout of- smart ' patter,
which follows win's on
point s though *he
doesn’t score _a knock-
out. Tinknown - to
Ros i n,e.*- he* enlists
the ■ support s of f Mrs.
Brandon, one of
fhe new poor, who earns £SOOO a.” year m
commissions from shopkeepers, 1 promising
,to buy .a. country home, she is',trying .to sell,
if. she will ■ include him among 'the ‘ guests,
one of. whom is-Rosine; invited to the 'house'*
for the week-end. Others in. the house party are
Lady _Jarie -Culver, plain arid- on the. rocks,
and Sir John Grimshaw, a. millionaire manu-
facturer of mangles ; Mrs. Brandon arranges
a Grimshaw-Culver match .on the under-
standing that she collects 10 per pcnt.~ of tin;'
marriage settlement. Also 'in , the party,
are a a vapid young nobleman and the
bad-tempered adventuress with whom he
is conducting an affair. The quartette play
no part in the Clement-Browne imbroglio,
but add sprightliness to the conversation.
I allowing a parlor game in which everybody
tolls what he truthfully thinks of every-
body else, Rosine makes it up with Max;
he had, of course, praised her to the skies.
Max then informs her that lie is a cousin of
her late husband, and would get the money
she would lose on re-marriage. Rosine
charges him with wooing her for her lucre.
Two or three more quirks and a lot more
conversation bring the story to its fore-
ordained conclusion. Comedies of this
description should be subsidised by the
British Labor party. Mary Wells, who
played Rosine, has aptitude, and improved
as the play went on, but she manifestly
lacks experience. Alathea Siddons, as
Mrs. Brandon, was the outstanding mem-
ber of the cast. She was what .she
was supposed to be and could be heard
in every corner of the house. Dick Pockley,
as the suitor, ran her a close second. Dorothy
Lowe, Zita Harris and Erna Living, among
the women, and A. S. Reading, Cedric Kemp-
son and Reg North, among the men, filled
subsidiary roles passably. Dressing and
scenery were adequate, and the producer,
A. C. Winn, knows his job. The Pickwicks,
who are under the dual direction of Dorise
Hill and Philip Lewis, will continue the
present bill every Wednesday evening at the
same address for another five or six weeks.
* # *
Sydney’s New Rep. Society’s “white unit.”
which is supposed to specialise in “Shaks-
peare and the classics,” had a shot at “As
You Like It” on the stage of St. James’s
Hall on Saturday night. Whether the Bard
wrote his comedies in blank verse because
“THE TRUTH GAME.”
As produced by Pickwick Theatre Group, Sydney.
Alathea Siddons, as the 10-per-cent.society dame. Dick Pockley, imploring Mary Wells
to marry him. Cedric Kempson, who laughs at everything. A. C. Winn, the
producer. (Frith says a. man with a face like that ought to be Prime Minister.)
Last, but not least, A. S. Reading, as a millionaire who makes mangles.
that was 1 the .convention or because he
intended to burlesque high-falutin’ drama
isn’t .clear, but -his' advice to actors, spoken
jbyn Hairilet, lays considerable stress on
naturalness and the imitation of humanity,
and pleads that speeches shall come trippingly
; off the tongue—not mouthed. But Shaks-
peare’s plays are still in favor because of the
jbeauty.Tof- their diction, and while it is the
•business ;of those who present them to
endeavor to counteract as far as possible the
i archaic and stilted effect of the ritual they
Mustn’t lose, sight of the object of the recital.
In exhibiting the essence of Shakspeare Mr.
Scott- Alexander’s players are not even mod-
erately successful. Not only do most of them
seem ,to lack understanding of the purport of
the lines they must speak, but, as if feeling
that', the words are ridiculous, they either
gabble them or smother them. Jacques’s
soliloquy, “All the' world’s a stage,” was
given by Kenneth Kendor as a recitation, for
which reason it was one of the few recognis-
able portions of the play, and very nicely
delivered too. Crofton Ilallam, as Touchstone,
wasn’t ashamed of his lines and let the audi-
ence have them in full measure ; but the very
pretty, appealing Rosalind that Barbara
Smith could have been and the sprightly
Audrey, of which May Baker showed mere
glimpses, were buried under a blanket of
faulty enunciation. The “white unit” should
hunt up an old actOß, and, subduing its fear
of being stagey, follow his orders for a solid
month before its next Shakspearean essay.
The old school put first importance on getting
the lines across to the audience, and if there'
is anything of more importance this Show-
man hasn’t yet heard of it.
* •¥ #
George Marlow’s co. has a rest in the first
part of the new show at Sydnev Grand Opera
House while the silent film “Dancing Days”
flickers o’er the screen. The co. bursts forth
after the interval like greyhounds from tlie
leash and presents a revue of the same name
as the film The dancing of Elsie Robins and
Roy MacDonell and the “whirlwind .sensa-
tion” of the Delmars diversify a mass of sorig-
andance items, very brightly presented. There
are situations vacant for a few new jokes
the present collection being the finest repre-
sentative collocation of chestnuts this Show-
man has ever listened to.
* *
Frank Neil’s industrious co., which per-
forms a panto, morning and afternoon at
Sydney Roxy, relapses after vespers into
“Happy Days,” a revue which is mostly
songandance, with interludes of trained dogs
cats and dicky-birds and acrobatic feats by
the Flying Omars. Hector St. Clair and
Robert Roberts give a series of quick-change
impersonations of Dickens characters, and
Fill Adoree, Arline Paterson arid Winnie
Edgcrton warble jazz ditties, assisted by the
Roxy Rosebuds. George Lloyd, Len Rich
and Bert Ray help with the fun-making.
* * ¥
The indomitable Beresford Fowler broke
all Repertory precedent by coming to light
with a season, of intellectual drama at a
time when the Melbourne intelligentsia were
mostly in bathers. The Queen’s Hall was
packed as usual, however, for the produc-
tion of .Coward’s “Easy Virtue.” The
students of Fowler’s dramatic academy,
which is particularly strong in ladies, made
a remarkably good fist of it. Dulcie Moore,
as the Frenchwoman with a lurid past, rose
to great heights of passion at the end of
the second act, when she turned on the
family of Col. Whittaker, hurled huge slabs
of Coward’s social philosophy at ma and
the daughters and brought down a typical
Coward curtain by smashing a plaster Cupid.
As Mabel Whittaker, Dorothy Slutzkin
looked too amiable for the bitter tongue
the playwright gave her. Loveday Hill, as
her daughter, was suitably pale and puri-
tanical. Ronald Campbell made no profound
impression as an extraordinarily priggish
young Englishman. Beresford Fowler was
safe inside the clothes of Col. Whittaker,
and by dint of not saying too much or doing
more than was necessary gave a convincing
rendering of the retired sybarite. There is
very little that is fresh in “Easy Virtue”
except the habit characters have when things
begin to drag of either (a) lighting a cigar-
ette, (ft) pouring out a whisky and soda or
(c) smashing a piece •of crockery. Still,
there is wit in it, if too much moral indig-
nation. To-morrow Mr. Fowler stages
Shaw’s “Misalliance” for the first time in
Melbourne, and on February 6 Lennox
Robinson’s “The White Blackbird” will be
another premiere. A good play on the legit,
stage nowadays would be as-out of place as a
Lady Mayoress on a push bike. At the
Queen’s Hall it is not uncommon.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Unemployment and Communism
A Communist speaker■ told a Townsville
audience that he had seven children, none
of them working. He gets 435. a week under
the Queensland Intermittent Relief Scheme —
nine to feed, clothe, etc., on, roughly, 6s. a
day—not 3d. a head for meals alone. He is
told, he is lucky to have the chance to earn
that much. Personally I never bothered about
Communism, but I am out of work for the
first time in my life, with nothing saved, for
reasons not my fault, and can see little
chance of getting anything to do. It makes
one indifferent to the chance of a smash —
it can't hurt me anyhow. — Ecla.
But can’t it hurt you? For the first
time in his life this man is out of work,
and lie obviously has been doing so well that
lie apologises for not having put something
by. Yet, this first time he is thrown idle,
he declares that “it makes one indifferent
to the chance of a smash —it can’t hurt me
anyhow,” lie doesn’t know what Commu-
nism would produce —nobody does. It has
been tried on a small scale here and there
and in every case with disastrous results,
and always with tin 1 destruction of personal
liberty. This man speaks from Townsville,
some of whose old hands knew a good deal
about New Australia, our first experiment
in Communism. Led by William Lane,
these enthusiasts went off in the Royal Tar
to S. America in 1893, in response to the call:
Come and work as free men for each other, to
labor on the common land for the common good,
and not for self alone or for the selfish greed of
another.
It was the finest experiment in idealism ever
organised in Australia, engaged in chiefly by
splendid, Australian bushmen, and its failure
was complete. Russia, the latest experi-
ment. is run on different lines. Lane was a
democrat; the Russian leaders are auto-
crats, who are constituting not a Commu-
nist community, but a vast Communist
machine, tne millions of people merely parts,
to be used as the engineer pleases, and to
be ruthlessly scrapped when no longer ser-
viceable. And “Ecla,” after being idle for
a few weeks for the first time in his life,
in a country where an out-of-work man can
get 435. a week unemployment relief, asks
what our old system of government has to
offer, and whether the hunger and misery of
New Australia or the starvation and slavery
of Russia are not to be preferred! One
can make allowances for the mental depres-
sion of a, man out of work ; but a man can
permit his mental depression to make a fool
of him—even a criminal. This recalls
that Forbes Winslow, a great mental speci-
alist, was once consulted by a man who told
him that he had an “uncontrollable impulse”
to kill a certain person—what would happen
to him (the client) if he did it? Forbes
Winslow: “Well, so far as I am concerned,
you’ll be hanged. I shall certainly try to
secure that result.” Forbes Winslow didn’t
have much sympathy with those who “let
themselves go.”
The Standard of Living
Is it possible to alter the standard of liv-
ing by passing a law about wagesf My
contention is that the only possible remit
is to alter the value of all assets. — AUSTRAL.
Within certain limits it is possible to affect
the standard of living. .Tones is a manu-
facturer .employing 100 men—say at making
clothes-pegs. They are working for him for
an average of 6s. a day. The balance of
what they really earn, 4s. a day, Jones
pockets, as his own profit. If the wages in
the elothes-peg industry are increased to Bs.,
.Tones’s profits arc liable to fall from about
£6OOO to £3OOO a year. Jones’s standard of
living will probably , not be affected; what is
most likely to happen in his case is that lie
will have £3OOO less to invest. But the
standard of living of Jones’s employees may
certainly be raised. It is quite different if
Jones’s profits are already an irreducible
minimum. In that case, an increase of the
wages without an increase of output must
mean (1) a reduction in the quality of the
goods, which will probably be disastrous, or
(2) an increase in the price. If the latter
is possible, then up goes the cost of living;
and if rises in enough industries are made
at about the same time, then the man who
gets the rise in wages gains nothing by it.
Often it isn’t possible (by reason of exter-
nal competition or otherwise) to pay the
higher wage; in that case the employee is
thrown out of a job.
The Exchange Tangle
Suppose •.exchange rates dropped to par
and our Australian £1 was worth 20s. in
England, our wool would drop back to its
present sterling value—say 6 d, Is that not
so? On the other hand, suppose Australia
came back to gold, what position then would
our wool industry be in? — Walkabout. .
The Australian wool-exporter is getting
at the moment 125 Australian £'s for wool for
which the foreign buyer pays £lOO English.
The extra £25 Australian conies from Aus-
tralian people who are prepared to pay the
premium in Australian money in exchange
for English money in London. Sooner or
later the fact that this premium has been
paid by the Governments and by importers
and others will affect taxes and the cost of
living generally in Australia; but there is
always a lag in these matters. And it isn’t
always possible to pass the price on. Thus
for the present it can be said that the
wool-exporter does gain considerably—at the
expense, however, not of the outsider, but
of other Australians. However, costs will
gradually be put up to pay this premium;
and in many cases they will be kept up long-
after the reason has disappeared. Thus
the wool men gain by the lag to begin
with, but will suffer from it later on. If
Australia came back to gold, with Britain
still off it, then —as in the case of S’Africa
—£loo English might be worth only £B5
Australian. In that case, of course, the
Australian woolgrower would “get it in the
neck,” just as his S’African cousin is get-
ting it to-day. The gold price remains con-
stant, assuming there are no variations in
supply or demand of either gold or the com-
modity which gold measures. The present
gold price is the price in dollars, not in
sterling; that we get more than either dollar
or sterling price is based on the theory that
our £ has a purchasing value correspondingly
less than that of gold dollar or sterling.
Public Loans that Weren’t Borrowed
Why the difference in private and Govern-
ment borrowing f A borrows £5OO to build
a cottage. He gets the full amount and
pays interest on same. A Government
borrows £5,000,000, but owing to market
value of its stock, etc., is lucky to get
£4,500,000. It takes this with its eyes open,
and has made a habit of it for 70 -odd years.
During that period the Australian nation
has been legally robbed of probably
£100,000.000 out of the £1,100,000,000 of
the total national debt. Worse still, Aus-
tralia has to pay interest on this £100,000,000
she’s never received. Haven’t we got a case
for repudiating that £100,000,000? —L. Liz.
It is not as bad as that. If Australia
went on the overseas market now for a loan
it could probably get it in N’York for about
15 p.c. If it said “No, we can’t afford to
establish the precedent of paying 15 p.c.,”
but for the sake of its reputation insisted
on getting it at p.c., then the lenders
would say “Very well, then we must issue
the loan at 100 multiplied by 71 divided by
15”: that is to say at 50. A loan issued
at 50, carrying 71 p.c., brings in the same
to an investor as orie issued at 100, carry-
ing 15 p.c. In each case the investor gets
£7 10s. p.a. for >£so. In practice it doesn’t
work out quite' like that; for the investor
figures on getting the full £lOO when the
term of the loan expires. Therefore, while
he might lend only at 15 p.c. if he had to
put up the entire £lOO, he will put up as
much as £BO for a 71 p.c. loan—what
amount he actually will put up depends on
the term of the loan ; that is to say on how
many years it will be before he gets the
£lOO. Thus actually loans are, issued at a
discount, not to benefit the lender, but to
make the public believe that the ' borrower’s
credit is better than it really is. and that
he can borrow at a lower rate than is the
fact. A borrower who repudiated a loan
issued at a discount, or any part of it,
would therefore be just as great a rogue as
one who repudiated a loan issued at par or a
premium.
The Farmer’s Life
It may be true, as
you say, that the man
who can reduce imports
by manufacturing on
the spot does just as
much to keep the country
solvent as the farmer, but
he by no means does as
arduous work, nor has he
a constant battle with
floods, droughts and other
troubles, nor docs he work
nearly as long hours.
Ilencc the popularity _of
the secondary industries,
with their town life, every
modern luxury, short
hours and regular pay
every week. —E. Leach.
Of course everybody's
own job is the hardest.
The man who is at this
moment on the Soap-box,
and who helps to run a
secondary industry, starts
at 10 minutes to seven.
He works then for 40
minutes —hard. At a few
minutes after nine he be-
gins again and works
with one three-quarters-of-
an-hour break till 5.15.
He then knocks off till
7.80 and works two
hours —this evening work
on three days a week.
He works seven days a
week; but puts in only
five hours on Satui’days
and Sundays. He does
this all round the calen-
dar, less three or four
weeks a year; there are
no “off” seasons. And
he loves it. though some
of it is very exhausting
work. He knows scores
of other city men running-
secondary industries who
do as much or more. As
for “floods, droughts and
other troubl e s,” the
farmer doesn’t suffer any
more than the man who
runs the secondary indus-
tries. with its wages
hoards and awards, its
inspectors, its primage
and sales taxes, its keen
competition, and very
often 30 p.c. exchange to
pay on his raw materials
instead of getting a 30
p.c. premium, as the
farmer has been doing
lately. The man who is
on tiie Soap-box says this
after having had experi-
ence of both industries.
Most of the men who are
employed in the. second-
ary industries may have
an easy, carefree time
compared with the
farmer: but even the
se c o ndary-industry em-
ployee hasn’t it all to the
good. He can be sacked
at a moment’s notice, he
has a boss dogging him
all the time, he has old
age (and probably the
sack) ahead of him, and
there is no extra good
year for him, with the
chance of a “punch” on
which he can retire, as
tens of thousands of Aus-
tralian farmers have
done.
Ic:c„p=
Fiduciary Note Issues
A statement was recently made m the
“Age.” on the authority of Dan Daley, 10 ho
has a local reputation as an economist, that
the £275,000,000 British fiduciary issue is
“tlie sheet anchor of the British financial
system,” I should be sorry to think so. 1
iake it that Britain’s fiduciary issue is not
intended to be of a permanent nature, and
has only been resorted to in unprecedented
circumstances, the intention being to get rid
of it as soon as possible—that is pay it off.
Unfortunately it is impossible with us. 1 lie
difference seems to be like this. A store-
keeper in Bourke-strect has lost his cus-
tomers, has got into irretrievable debt and
in the end issues p.n.’s (otherwise fiduciary
notes). Who would want them? On the
other hand, a sound firm is increasing busi-
ness at such a rate that it wants to go in for
a building campaign , for which purpose
it issues debentures (or fiduciary notes).
People rush them. Is the analogy in order?
■ —J. McC.
This subject was touched upon in a Bulle-
tin article last week, “Gold and Misery.”
Most modern economists believe that a gold
backing is no longer necessary, since notes
are not now issued (except in very rare
cases) by private banks. It was once doubted
whether an issue not made definitely against
gold would have a stable value. On this
point Reginald McKenna, late Chancellor
of the Exchequer, now chairman of the/great
Midland Bank, says: “The price level in
England has been more stable during the
last three years —this was written in 19-5
—“than in the U.S.A. Measured by the
Standard of purchasing power, the pound,
which is not 011 the gold standard and lias
no regular restriction on its issue, has main-
tained stability better than the dollar, which
is based 011 gold.” Everything, however,
depends upon the principles which govern
the issuers of the so-called fiduciary notes,
In the old days, when every little private
bank, including the mushroom institutions,
issued its own notes, of course, a gold
backing was necessary; and precisely the
same 1 thing would be true to-day if polit.i-
cians were the note-issuing authority. Neither
could bo trusted to sacrifice present advan-
tage • the politician, who , must make a
good immediate showing or run tlie risk of
losing his political life, is especially not to
be trusted to sacrifice a present advantage,
And it is admitted that always there is a
present advantage to be got out of inflation,
That is the overwhelming reason why, if
the politicians controlled the note issue,
nothing less than a full gold backing would
be safe. With the issue in the hands of
Central Reserve Banks, wholly independent
Q f politics, a gold backing is superfluous.
„ o ] ( ] j s as necessary as ever it was in
making international settlements. It wasn’t
tlie fact that Britain had a fiduciary note-
issue which lately compelled her to “go off”
gold; it was the fact that she liadn t sufli-
cient gold to pay out to those who had
capital in Britain and wanted tosend ff
fW nt matter .0
deali with Brown of Gravesend ; but as
soon ag chapeau of Paris began cashing
notes to get gold for export purposes, then
Bie quantity of gold in reserve did matter.
,
t
Silver in Asia
You said that even the talk of bimetallism
would probably put up the price of silver,
and that this would greatly add to the pur-
chasing power of China and some other
Asiatic countries. Why? Are they silver
producers? I understood that Australia
used to supply both India and. China, —F. E.
B. Manning. .....
Burmah is a producer; but that is not
the point. China outside the treaty ports
still uses silver: it is the almost universal
currency. Silver probably still purchases
as much local goods as it has done for years
past; and there has been no noticeable in-
crease in wages or payment for services on
account of the shrinkage in the gold-value of
tl us metal. But when it comes to buying
foreign g()ods t he case is wholly different.
jj silver was 6oz. to the sovereign and is
now i2oz. to the sovereign, then it will buy
the . foreign goods it did. Much
” niy ,4“ 1, ” ,t n Australia V
tin me tin <i p • , !' .• 7
Lttle hiay, a farmer s w , . .
m the country for years came to the citj
the other day and made the sui prising dis-
envery that she was very poor. In the
country everything she had need of and which
she paid for was very cheap, because whe t
and wool were very cheap—meat, flour (hei
husband liad his own wheat milled), eggs
(3|d. per doz.), butter (7d. when she liad to
buy it). It was when she liad to buy mi-
ported goods, or local goods made by men
whose wages are governed not by_ present
prices of our products but by old prices,
that the lady made the horrible discovery
that she was very poor indeed. An increase
in .the value of silver expressed in terms ot
gold would millions m Asia to buy
imports which to-day they cant attoia,
though they don t realise so long as they
stick to local purchases, that there has been
any change in the value of their currency.
THE TWO-GUN MAN.
“Public attention is being drawn to the strange inertia of the Lang Government in
the face of the indiscriminate use of firearms among Sydney criminals.”


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street. Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
/A
Wmm
CHOIC
CIGAR
V^
&
1
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant •'
and flavorsome and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ititual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from . Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards; Cards of Tarifi
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Doris”: Deer Bulletin let me tell you
about our poltry-brecding we went on to a
farm Mother and us Girls made a flour
garden but the fowls scratcht it up when dad
got a brain wave he sold our white leghorns
and bought big Indian game and small buff
bantims which he crost now said he your
trubbles are over these fowls will grow with
one long leg and one short one and if they
go scratchen in the garden the short leg will
not rcech the ground and if they go to get
down to it the long leg will poke them in
the stumaches and turn them on there backs
Mother has a wonderful garden now.
* * * *
“Mako”: We were travelling up the
tidal creek at Manaruru (M.L.j by the
mail launch, which was making pace to
reach our destination before the tide
dropped, when Henare, eighteen stone, and
Mrs. Henare, not much lighter, hailed us
from the bank. It took ten minutes to
get them aboard, amid the doleful prophecies
of the company that the extra weight
would mean serious delay. Just then the
engine became disheartened, and for the
next few miles we chugged along at half
speed. Facetious launch hands inquired
what Henare intended to do about it. He
meditated deeply. We were still two
miles from, our destination when there was
a splash and a shout of “Man overboard!”
It. wasn’t a man. It was Mrs. Henare,
whose cerise blouse was bobbing on the
tide in our wake. The launch swung round.
“What te matter?” shouted Henare. “Yon
not ko back! I. push her over and terra
her swim. She orright.” “Orright” she was.
Ihe lady floundered ashore and waved to us
cheerfully as she set off on the walk along
the creek bank. She was quite dry, quite
amiable and utterly unresentful when she
walked into the settlement an hour later,
where Henare, after seven beers, paused
to accept any congratulations she might
have to offer on his brainy solution of the
transport difficulty.
WONDERFUL WHAT MONEY CAN BUY!
MRS. NEWRICH ( showing, visitor over garden of mansion recently purchased) : “And this
is the sundial. It s more than a hundred years old, and during all that time it
hasn't lost even a second!"
“R.X.8.” : Menzies loved baksheesh more
dearly than any Gyppo, and Hay’s store
managed to keep his custom only by knock-
ing odd. pence off his bills,, and by sending
out lollies and fashion magazines to the
DAMNED WITH MUCH PRAISE.
“Be that good burnin' wood, Maister Polpennick?”
"Ee caan't do better, Mrs. Menadue. Why, to winter my old ooman she do burn so
much as a onderdweight of that wood in a evenin’.”
missus and kids. Then old Bee from the
other town decided to try to get the trade
of the outlying cockies. “No !” Menzies said.
“Decent lot o’ coots at Hay’s. Always
sen din’ out presents fer ther missus and
kids. And they make their prices pretty
right fer me.” “But I can beat them there,”
old Bee protested. “You see, now. Would
you let me send you out a catalogue?”
“Righto!” Menzies agreed. “And yer can
send a tin o’ cockies’ joy and a pair o’
boots, size 10, with it.” That evening Bee’s
truck arrived, and Menzies dived out of the
bails to meet it. “There’s your lot,” said
the carter. “And Mr. Bee said to give you
this catalogue.” Menzies took it, and his
jaw dropped. “Strewtli!” he gasped. “I
thought he said a cattle-dog!”
* * * $
“The Padre” : Though the abo. in the
Par North has never met commercial travel-
lers he seems to be acquiring something of
their manner. I had a visit from one of
the local lads the other evening. He was
very conversational, recounting all his good
deeds for the past week or, so ; for one thing,
he had assisted in the unloading of a
boat. “We work all night, case proper heavy.”
He had been helping another man to re-
thatch his house: “Carry cabbage-tree too far
longa head.” In addition he had prevented
a case of theft"; in short, he had been n
model to all Boy Scouts. I let him ramble
on, knowing that he would come to the point
sooner or later. Just as I was getting fed
up (and lie probably noticed it) out it came,
“Got a pipeful, Boss?” He got it.
“Laloki”: I stayed one night at the
home of old Captain Olsen, in the Kavieng
district of Papua. He arrived in German
New Guinea in 1881, and for several
years was one of Queen Emma’s trading
skippers. During the evening the old man
brought out his treasures for my inspec-
tion—his Norwegian master's certificate,
hoary with age, a photo, of his deceased
native wife,-a few specim is of quartz
gold, some native curios, mostly obscene,
and, incongruous in that queer assemblage,
an antique seal ring of exquisite
workmanship and design. The device
on the seal portrayed a snake in the
act of swallowing a dagger clutched in
a mailed hand. The background was a
field of fleurs-de-lis. Olsen produced , a mag-
nifying-glass and bade me turn the ring over
and read the inscription on the bottom of
the band, but it needed no glass to decipher
the legend inscribed in flowing characters:
“Memo cel a passera.” “I bought that ring
for two sticks of tobacco,” said Olsen, “from
an old nigger, the chief of a village just down
the coast. He died 15 years ago and he must
have been about 70 or so when he sold me tu/
ring. He told me that many years Vio
before he was born, a big ship with three
masts anchored outside his village and some
white men went ashore with guns. They
were the first white men to land on the
island and the niggers wanted to be friends.
Rut after shooting eight niggers and all the
pigs they could find, they grabbed two
women, collected the pigs and rowed back
to the ship. A priest who’d come ashore
with them was so sorry about it that, just
as the boat was leaving the ; beach, he took
his ring off his finger and threw it to the
chief—the father of the old man who sold
it to me.” Now who visited those latitudes
round about 1830? And who was the aristo-
cratic ecclesiastic who kept such bad com-
pany, but whose passion for a fair deal led
him to jettison the most beautiful ring I’ve
ever seen?
* * * *
“Pine Scrub” : “Once a rabbiter, always
a rabbiter,” they say; also, “A rabbiter’s
no good for anything else.” Well, there’s
as much truth in those aphorisms as in
most,, but how about a word for the defence?
The trapper is a producer, and given “a
bit of decent rabbit country” he knocks out
a living during the winter and leaves the
dole for those too tired to leave the towns.
Also lie is a toiler, for solid hard yakka
is necessary if he is to make more than
tucker and smokes these days. A few years
ago win'll prices were booming it was a case
of “a bob a skin” • now he is lucky if
he averages 3d. a skin, and luckier still if he
averages, wet and fine, more than 200 skins
a week. I ’ know him best in the N.S.W.
Southern Tablelands, where the picked rabbit
country is steep and rocky. When a man lias
moved and sot up 00 traps on those hills,
he has done a morning’s work. Then he
has to go round them at least twice- —sunset
and dawn—to collect the rabbits, after which
he skips and. puts his catch on the wires. Ii
he adopts poisoning he must collect thistle
roots, prepare baits and lay a trail of 40C
to 500, making a hoe mark for each bait.
Before daylight he must be on the trail tc
boat the crows and eagles to the harvest,
and then skin and wire. That is not a
loafer’s day, and if it should rain after the
trail is laid the day’s work goes for nothing,
I know that many wise men will rush in
to say that there should be no rabbit-
infested country, but in N.S.W- there are
hundreds of square miles between the coast
and the divide which will never in our time
carry much else than rabbits, wallabies and
dingoes. It is not worth improving. I can
imagine that belt of country being some
da.v the last stronghold of the last of the
rabbiters, but I won’t see it. I’ll be too
dead.
THE DOGGER.
[Fou The Bulletin.]
In lonely parts the dogger camps,
Where dingoes prowl and prey;
Along the creeks he rides and tramps,
With baits and traps to trick the scamps
When red hills turn to grey.
No common brute that haunts the creeks,
Or lurks in dune and log,
Could tax his wits ; but One he seeks
He’s trailed and studied hard for weeks—•
A hundred-guinea dog.
A demon known on many runs,
And never heard to howl.
That’s dodged the baits and traps and guns
Of scheming sleuths for years, and shuns
The risks where others prowl.
They’ve sought in vain his appetite
With dainty baits to please ;
H'is cunning ways they could recite:
They’ve learned to know his savage bite,
And eke his hours of ease.
But only one of all his foes.
Persists from dawn till dark;
Relentlessly the dogger goes,
Keen-eyed for where the outlaw’s toes
Have left a tell-tale mark.
He searches deep in gorge and glen,
Round pools the hills embrace,
In gullies dark, through scrub and fen,
Until he finds, remote from men,
The outlaw’s drinking-place.
He treads not there; nor leaf nor scrap
He touches with his hand,
But wades across with stake and strap,
And under water sets his trap,
Half-buried in the sand.
The outlaw, bloody-jowled and hot,
Slinks from his latest kill
With lolling tongue and lazy trot,
Contented in that chosen spot
To lave and lap his fill.
With rug and quart on saddle-D’s,
Soon from the wooded rise
The dogger looks through dew-wet trees,
And in the grim steel jaws he sees
His hundred-guinea prize.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
v.\\\vC
"A\\\
ammatf'ijj
M 3
LOUISE
Lake Louise and the Chateau.
on i he way to England
Nestling like a jewel ’midst sublime
mountain grandeur region of inspira-
tion—one of the world’s loveliest resorts
—Lake Louise. Here is Chateau Lake
Louise, giving Canadian Pacific Hotel
service.
At L»ke Louise you will find new life in the
great outdoors or mixing with the happy cosmo-
politan crowd at the chateau. Riding—Swimming
What a setting for a
holiday. Only reached via the Canadian Pacifio
route to Europe. Literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 3/31.2
C4N4DI4N 14(1 IK
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Ihe Worlds Greatest Ira vet System
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Cbmmonwcaltl) SavmQSßank of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
“Frseh” : According to Seattle journals, an
ingenious American residing in the State
of Washington has endowed a university for
frogs and toads. He has done so because
the frog is despised as a lowbrow, and he is
desirous of uplifting the race. The university
is in a special section of his garden, and
the course consists in teaching the frogs
to recognise their benefactor and to other-
wise develop their intelligence. When a
satisfactory standard has been reached, the
graduates are turned out in the neighboring
marshes to educate their Boeotian brethren.
Writer, much exposed from early childhood
to the big green frogs that are the pets of
every western Queensland boy, is willing to
lay odds that the evangelists won’t waste
much time in the swamps, but will be back
at their Alma Mater in short order. A homing-
pigeon has very little on a frog who has found
comfortable quarters in a cool bush bath-
room or under a tank. Time and again
writer has seen one of them removed to a
considerable distance to no purpose, the
returned traveller being invariably in his
old dug-out again in less time than anyone
would think possible.
* ❖ * *
“Herpes” : The story of the gentleman who
was accustomed to wrestle with pythons in
far North Queensland (B. 6/.1/’32) is well
up to the local standard of tradition, even
if the gladiator never existed —with a fairly
long and wide experience of the North,
writer, at least, never heard of him. Pre-
sumably the greasing of the body,, which the
human insisted on as a. preliminary, was
intended to prevent the big snake getting a
grip But anyone who has seen a caged
constrictor' kill its prey will agree that no
grip is necessary. The snake throws his
coils round the prey and then instantaneously
reduces their diameter. A slippery sur-
face makes no difference to a crushing pull.
This, in the case of any large constricting
snake is tremendous, and it is very doubt-
ful whether an unarmed man would have a
chance; with a small one he probably would.
Finally, the necessity for getting a tail hold
does not exist where the python or boa is
concerned; that is a long-exploded theory.
* -? * *
“Porosus”: North Queensland is pretty
well inured to crocodile horrors, but an un-
usually tragical . one has been reported
from Halifax, near Ingham. A boy of 12
was playing on the banks of the Seymour
Biver with three younger children when
he saw a large crocodile crawling up the
bank towards them. The plucky youngster
carried one small child out of danger and
dashed back for a four-year-old sister. As he
lifted her, the crocodile snatched the child
out of his arms and with a toss of its head
hurled her into the water, whither it followed.
It is an exceedingly rare thing for the croc,
to come ashore in this fashion, his favorite
method being to seize the victim in shallow
water or when standing on the edge of the
bank. In much of the North Queensland
cattle country the crocodile is a worse
destroyer of calves and young cattle. than the
dingo, grabbing them as they are drinking at
the edge of the stream and pulling them into
the water to drown. That done they are
buried under the bank until wanted.
* * * *
“Adameve”: Who said Binghi wasn’t epi-
curean in his diet? Nonagenarian James
McKenzie, of Murwillumbali (N.S.W. North
Coast), tells of an aborigine and his gin,
Dolman and Beanie, who captured a large
carpet-snake in the bush near his farm. To
test its condition, Dolman stretched it
lengthwise across his chest while Beanie,
heedless of its squirming, sunk her teeth
deep in its nether regions. Then they threw
it away. It wasn’t prime!
* * • *
“Gregor” : A Queensland citizen has pegged
a claim to a niche in police history in a
peculiar manner. In the days when the
THE VILLAIN OF THE PEACE.
INQUISITIVE OLD LADY: “Dear me, whatever has he been doing, Constable?”
POLICEMAN (shortly): “Hoverthrowin’ the Guv’ment, Mum!”
northern State had capital punishment he
was present at a double execution which
ended hideously, the head of one of the con-
demned men being completely severed, while
ECONOMY FIRST.
WIFE OF SCOTS FARMER: “Ye’re no hurt, Jock? I’ll rin an' feitch the lads tae help
ye oot.”
VOICE FROM BELOW : “Na, na! Dinna tak’ ’em off their work, lass. I’ll bide here till
their denner-hour."
the other man was slowly strangled. The on-
looker was so impressed by the horror of the.
happening that he worked out a scale of
drops in proportion to weight, which he sub-
mitted to the sheriff. The scale was adopted,
and thereafter the pupils of the .State’s Fin-
ishing Schoolmaster were given a speedy and
painless exit from this world. Incidentally,
they arrange these things much better in Eng-
land. There the drop for a condemned man
is worked out on a very simple arithmetical
formula, 45.2 being divided by the weight of
the condemned in stones, the result being
the drop in feet.
* * *
“Aitape”: At Sentani Lake, near the head
of Humboldt Bay. Dutch New Guinea, they
have found three bronze axes. Previously
none of these axes, which date from the
Hindus some 2000 years ago, had been, dis-
covered east of Robi Island, near Timor,
although they are fairly common in Bali,
This may help to explain the very Hindu
type of features of numbers of the people
well in from Vanimo, near the Dutch border,
**■ * *
“Gloria Mundi”: They say that it is the
nature of rabbits to travel consistently in
one direction. Grasshoppers seem to be
like that too. There is a plague of them on
Monaro (N.S.W.) this summer, and, though
there have been strong winds blowing from
the south or west for more than a week, the
hordes of ’hoppers advance from north-east
all the time. In one place they have come
literally up against it—it being the high
stone wall of a house. They have chew 7 ed
into everything else in their path, but this
ironstone wall is too much, even for them.
However, they are not turning back. After
trying in vain to surmount the obstacle they
are holding a stop-work meeting half-way
up, and have declared the wall “black.” As
further thousands of ’hoppers come along they
join the cluster and agree in this opinion,
Nary a one, however, has the brains to
retrace his hops and try in another direc-
tion for something more succulent than
basalt. The Great Wall must save China
from an awful lot of grasshoppers.
* * * *
“Tupu”: Apropos of the rareness of the
stitch-bird or hihi (“Mako,” B. 23/12/’3l),
in 1880 the Austrian collector Reiscliek
visited the Little Barrier in quest of this
bird. He remained on the island three weeks
without any sign of it. In October, ISS2,
he again went there and after five weeks’ con-
tinuous searching, traversing every part of
this rugged island and climbing ranges 2000
feet above sea level, he was rewarded by the
sight of Poganoris. Some idea of the nature
of the place may be gathered from the fact
that it took Reiscliek two whole days, tramp-
ing, climbing and scaling precipices, to get
back to his landing place, but he had visited
the last home of the hihi and had obtained,
besides several specimens of the male bird, a
female in perfect plumage. There is a specimen
of the female bird in the Colonial Museum
at Wellington, and another in the Auckland
Museum, but this sex is missing in all other
M.L. museums. There is one old and dingy
skin in the P>ritish Museum (obtained by
Earl in 1842) and another (from Sir Wil-
liam Jardine’s collection) in the new Uni-
versity Museum at Cambridge. No other
English or foreign museum can boast of a
specimen of the female hihi.
* * * *
“C. Sandig”: “Bamaliouta” wrongly
blames missionaries for introducing measles
to the Pacific by enforcing the wearing of
cast-off clothing (B. 23/12/’3l). Infection
from such sources is now discounted, direct
contact being the usual mode of transmis-
sion. Any native race easily falls a prey
to “civilised” diseases, not having acquired
immunity to them by contact. Evidence of
this was supplied by the landing in Fiji
in 1875 of sailors from H.M.S. Dido, on
which an outbreak of measles had occurred,
It is on record that 40,000 of a population
of 150,000 natives died from measles. The
cold-water cure is now regarded as sound
treatment in such cases among native races,
but pneumonia has always to be very care-
fully guarded against,
* * * *
“’Possum” : Mention of the birds spreading
the seed of the inkweed pest (B. 1(5/12/.
recalls a phenomenon winch greatly puzzled
me in my youth. On the N.S.W. North
Coast, when clearing scrub land on the river
fiats, the procedure was to fell the timber,
and, after leaving it a month or two to dry
out, to burn it off. A few weeks after the
fire the land would be covered with a dense
crop of Cape-gooseberry plants, which yielded
remarkably heavy crops of splendid quality,
I have never heard it explained how the
seed was brought there, but obviously birds
must have brought it. Still, as the land a
month or two previously had been covered
with dense scrub, it is hard to see how they
could spread the seed so extensively. No
plants could be found in the vicinity before
the fire.
THE THOUSAND-MILE STRETCH.
[For The Bulletin.]
The train runs east, the train runs west. A
thousand busliland. miles it spans.
The Desert Railway. once ’twas called, but
nowadays it’s just the Trans.
There’s little prospect of a job at either end,
and none between;
But men essay the crossing still, for distant
fields are always , green.
’Twas none too hard a year ago to jump a
lift along the track -,
You’d gained some ground if out you went,
now all you get’s a free ride back.
They dump you at your starting point, con-
siderably worse your plight
Than any snail that climbs six feet by day
to fall back five by night.
The trains run west, the trains run east —
they’ve cut them down to two a week —
And even on the crawling “goods” the odds
are long at hide-and-seek
Against the bit of human freight, beneath
some wide tarpaulin stowed,
Who figured thus to cut a slice from off that
thousand miles of road.
They yawn away the lagging hours in
cushioned seats upon the train
When far and wide on either side there
yawns the grim Nullarbor Plain;
They envy airplane passengers the dreary
wastes behind that throw
And o’er the desolation skim at ninety miles
an hour or so.
A station once in fifty miles, a siding or a
fettlers’ camp—
And some may fly and more may ride, and
not a few are .game, to tramp.
There’s little chance to land a job at either
end. and none between,
Yet still they struggle east and west, for
always distant fields are green.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


V
/
%
'S.
a
V
EASTER, 1932.
Opening of the Sydney Harbour BRIDGE
One of the greatest events in Australia’s History! The
Hotel is filling rapidly—make reservations now to avoid
possible disappointment.
Reduced Tariff on a “Room Only” basis gives visitors
the benefit of our lowered costs.
Single Room . . . . 10/6 per day
Double Room . .... 20/- per day
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
NEW
Room
Only
RATES ■*
Reduced Tariff
SMOKE-OH!
And another name for the U.A.P. is “The
House that Jack Lang built.”
* *
“I knew he was telling lies—he boasted too
much.”— Police-court witness.
Let the cat out with the brag, so to speak.
* *
“Confidence in Australia has increased in London,
and as a result loan money may again be available.”
— S. M. Bruce.
But Australia definitely does not want
another “baok-to-the-lend” movement.
* *
CARD SENSE.
(By “Portland Club.”)
My fellow-enthusiast Mr. R. F. Foster,
writing in the “S. M. Herald” recently of
finished bridge-players, instanced the case of
AY, who, early in the game, said to E : “I’m
afraid we’re not going to make it, partner.”
They didn’t, and Mr. Foster concluded his
article with a challenge: “Can you name
20 who are up to that standard? You have
the world to choose from.” With all due
modesty, as the leading player of my suburb,
I make bold to say that I could name several
in Slugville. A\ 7 e don’t bother in the Mezza-
nine Circle suburb about Mr. Foster’s “forc-
ing two” bids, “big club” conventions and
the like. “The less known about such rub-
bish the jollier the game,” says the wife, and
I agree. But when it comes to deduction,
nippy brain-work, all that one means by
the phrase “card sense”—well, take this
example. N dealt:—
5.A.K.10
H.A.Q.J.10.8
D.A.K.Q.
C.A.Q.
N.
(Mother-in-law)
w jj
(Self) (The Wife)
S
(Rev. Whiffle)
I forget what the others had, but the bid-
ding, chiefly owing to the somewhat selfish
opposition of E, ended in AY going “five no
HE SAW THE NEW YEAR IN.
trumps.” N led a heart (in mistake for a
diamond, of which she had five or six), and
W had made four tricks when S whimpered:
“1 only have 11 cards.” Quick as a flash
N, who turned out to have 15 small ones,
dashed her hand on the table, mixed her
cards up with dummy and W’s tricks, and
cried: “Misdeal!” Students of the finer
points of the game may be interested to
know that N’s quick-wittedness availed the
N-S combination nothing. S, who can
never be induced to sort his cards, revoked
in trumps during the next game, and was
caught out at the third offence, with no
fewer than five cards of the suit called for, by
E (Dummy). Still, the card sense was
there —the counting ability of S, the light-
ning realisation by N that unless swift
action was taken all would be lost —and I
venture to say that the case is quite as im-
pressive as any cited by Mr. Foster. My
forthcoming textbook, entitled “Bridge in
Sydney’s Northern Suburbs,” contains over
100 similar examples.
ELECTION MEMORY.
Long said: “Lang, back me up for Lang.”
But Lang {viz., Jack) declined to;
Now Lang (the seat) is lost to Long
And Lang’s man’s Long behind too.
* ¥
“My husband has jumped on me when drunk, but
we have made it up afterwards.” — Melbourne wife.
With all his vaults she loves him still.
* *
“In Persia, where plump women are admired,
girls fatten themselves to attract men.”
Most Australian girls weight till they’re
asked, too.
* *
“Cool Thief.”— News heading.
In Sydney when, without relief,
Heat and short tempers rule one,
I feel hot envy of this thief
Who still remains a cool one!
UNPARDONABLE OMISSION.
Kindly hands lifted the unconscious form
of the sporting eduor of the “Daily Blob”
from beneath his desk. Some copy was still
clenched in his outflung hand. Restoratives
were applied and the stricken man slowly
opened his eyes and gazed vacantly around.
The news editor looked concerned: “What
happened, old man?”
The sporting editor passed a hand dazedly
across his brow, looked at the copy, and
shuddered convulsively. “Read —that,” he
gasped.
“It seems 0.K.,” said the news ed. “Ortho-
dox Bradman guff: ‘Flaxen-haired D’Artag-
nan’; ‘Amazing Youth’; ‘St. George Marvel’;
‘Greatest run-getting machine in the history
of the Game,’ etc.”
“Yes —yes, but—didn’t —you notice —he--
hasn’t —once- —used [and the sporting ed.’s
eyes gleamed wildly]—hasn’t—once —used
—‘Bowral Wonder Boy’?”
¥ *
“Architects say that 75 per cent, of the manor
houses of England are ‘insanitary horrors.’ ”
After that let’s hope English tourists will
stop bragging about their good manors.
* *
“And if Mr. Bruce, Mr. Scullin, Mr. Theodore, or
anyone like that comes to Oxford the club will
invite him. to eat or talk.” — Sydney D.T.
If the club knew them as well as we do
the invitation would be strictly confined to
eating.
* *
APRAXIA.
“John Very has Apraxia, a brain disorder, in
which there is an interruption between thought and
action. It is very rare.”
—Diary of a Doctor Who Tells.
Not so rare as you might imagine, Doctor.
There are thousands whose thoughts turn
periodically to total abstinence —a morning
reaction manifesting itself, as a rule, some
12 hours after ceasing work on pay-day.
The interruption between thought and action
is extended indefinitely in the case of 99.05
per cent., according to the investigations of
Dr. Martha, M.L.A.
As another example, a Sydney taxpayer,
who is compiling a biography of Mr. Justice
Piddington (for and on behalf of the pub-
lishers of the “Our Oppressors” series),
recently spent several hours observing the
activities of a gang of basic-wage workers
on a Government job in the Premier’s con-
stituency. In almost every case the inter
ruption, or hiatus, between the thought of
starting work and the action of grabbing
pick or shovel and getting down to it was
of a lengthy nature. The biographer’s in-
vestigations led him to' the curious dis-
covery that the few toilers who do hot
suffer from Apraxia are loathed by their
kind, such epithets as “scab” and “crawler,”
accompanied by the Shavian adjective, being
hurled at them. Incurable victims, on the
other hand, are supported in luxury. The
case of Comrade-Alderman Ilans Loafstein
may be cited. He last thought of working in
the summer of 1902, and those who have
studied his case predict that the gap between
thought and action will extend to his dying
day, provided he avoids gaol.
In the realm of statecraft we have, in
Mr. J. T. Lang, an eminent patient who
thought of banishing unemployment in N. S.
Wales as far back as September, 1930, He
is still refraining from action, though the
tally of out-of-works has vastly increased
since then. As in the case of a well-known
type of Asiatic mendicant, he depends on his
affliction for his living.
* *
MARRIED LIFE.
—Diamonds.
—Hearts.
—Clubs.
—Spades.
¥ *
“My husband actually bought her a new frock
for the Melbourne Cup.” —Divorce petitioner.
Known locally as backing the favorite.
ADVERTISEMENT JIM.
You must have seen him—if not in the
flesh, then in one of his many admirable
photographs in the daily press. His em-
WHERE IT SHOWS.
MADAME: “You can never tell what a
womans clothes cost by the look of
her.”
MONSIEUR: “No, but you generally can tell
by the look of her husband.”
ployers generally refer to him as Jim, and
make him the hero of those interesting little
conversations we so love to read.
I am one of the few who know something
of his private life. As an infant he un-
thinkingly began to thrive on Samson Oats.
Within a month the fact was being pro-
claimed in 13 newspapers.
Later, his lot became still more unenvi-
able. Each day I saw him going down the
street--“ 1 ad in a well-cut Snip suit, and
forced by an adam-
ant employer to carry
tiie txiia trousers
draped over his arm;
his face invariably
smooth and shining,
due to a lavish use of
Ziff’s Cream with
Gangster Blades; his
luxuriant hair be-
speaking Mane’s Lo-
tion ; his teeth agleam
with “Tusko”; a dis-
tinctive Lid hat on his
head. You or I could
lounge through the
week-end in singlet and
pants. Not so .Tim.
That bulge in his side
pocket is a flat tin of
500 Blonk's Cigarettes.
If he smoked one and
made it 499 he’d get
the sack.
I haven’t seen Jim
lately. But I have
my fears. I see a cre-
matorium co. has been
advertising the clean,
handy nature of its
work. Can it be?....
TRAGEDY
AVERTED.
The great meeting
was in full swing, but,
despite the enthusiasm
of the members, there
seemed to be something
missing some vital,
tangible thing, without
which the whole of
the proceedings and
resolutions would be
vitiated.
Certainly the speeches condemnatory of
the revolutionary forces within our midst
had received their full meed of support; the
threat to organise on military lines had been
cheered to the echo; the flag-bedraped table
had fired those present with glowing patriot-
ism. Yet, somehow, uneasiness was visible
in the huge concourse.
Then someone on the platform leaned
across and whispered to the chairman, who.
with a grateful smile at his inspired
prompter, rose. As his opening words fell
upon ears attuned to the well-known
phrases, a tremendous sigh of relief swept
through the hall. It was like the soughing
of wind through the paspalum that covers
the footpaths of suburban councils.
It had been a very close thing, and the
imagination boggles at the thought of what
would have happened if the chairman of the
New Guard had failed to deliver his Empire
Unity speech.
* *
ARTISTS ALL.
“Every man has some latent artistic ability.”
— “Sun.”
“And it gets full play in good old New
South,” agreed the Man in the Fourpenny
Bar. “At one time I used to draw wages, and
now, even though there’s a depression on, a
bloke can usually manage to draw strike
pay, baby bonus, child endowment, dole, old-
age pension, and (provided he has a spot of
luck in the weekly lottery draw) corks.”
* *
That. Yankee detectives are boorish and bold
I know from the talkies. They're cunning
as rats,
But here is one thing that I’d like to be told:
How do they look when they’re not wearing
hats?
* *
“He was fond of lying without bedclothes.”
—“D.T.”
We know some politicians who lie with
and without them.
* *
“Mrs. Ivy Field is at her Palm Beach bungalow.”
— “Truth.”
Ivy has a way of clinging to bungalows.
* *
“Mr. Lang has tried every conceivable method of
‘ raising money.”
Hence our pet name for him —Jack of
all raids.
* *
“A planter says missionaries have made a hash
of things in the Island'.”
Well, haven’t the Islanders made a hash
of some missionaries?
¥ *
“The young Scot refused to give evidence implicat-
ing his friend.”
Naturally he would be reluctant to give
his friend away.
2JL
MYSTERY.
Ah what was that orgy's aftermath
When the scene was suddenly changed?
Did the heroine • take the downward path
When her shingle got disarranged?
Can anyone tell me what Greta said
When no sound came from her lips?
Or what occurred on that blacked-out bed?
Or who tore Miss Shearer’s .dips?
We go to the movies on Saturday night
And I’m asked these questions shyly.
Though no one can give the answers right
But Mister Creswell O’Reilly.
SYMMETRY.
Upon a grassy river-bank serene
An angler stood amidst surroundings green —
And looked it.
Towards evening, as the light was getting
dim,
He saw a fish or Use a fish saw him —
And hooked it.
Proud of his feat, with smiles and high-held
dome,
lie took this fish, I mean this story, home —
And cooked ft.
RATHER A FALL-IN ALL ROUND.
STICKY: “I believe you are married, Micky. What sort of a match
did you make?"
MICKY: “I didn’t do as well as I expected; but, between you and
me, she didn’t either.”


The Australian Art Exhibition
THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
i| Bulletin E?uifdinqs
252 Georqe Street
l l[ S. Y D N E. V
See announcement page 33.
•TO-DAY
The fastest long distance
telegraph service in the
world is the Beam Wire-
less Service between Aus-
tralia and Great Britain,
the Continent of Europe,
North & South America.
Route your
messages via
BEAM WIRELESS
Ring up England,
Scotland, Ireland,
Wales or twenty
European Countries
Canada, New Zea-
land, U.S.A., Cuba,
Mexico, and Java,
from your own
home or office via
A.W.A. Radiophone
TELEGRAPH your
friends at sea and in
the Pacific Islands
via
COASTAL RADIO
For full information
Telephone A.W.A. Offices
Sydney,BW221 1, or
Melbourne, F 4161
and ask for “TRAFFIC” or apply
at any Post Office or at
AMALGAMATED
Wireless (A/sia) Ltd.
47 York St., Sydney
167-9 Queen St., Melbourne
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES"©?
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features ever}’thing a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it 'you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Position Wanted.
AY/ANTED. —Position nurse-companion, by
experienced nurse, bright, musical.
MISS RIZZI, Wlalcha Road, N.S.W.
c * •
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
il’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FLORODORA.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE RUl r AL:
PANTOMIME
SXNBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE : AS HUSBANDS GO.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
In Full Swing/
è
é
THIS is but one of countless Bargains to be found
in Murdoch’s Sale Bulletin! Eight shillings and
a penny clipped off the price of these pure Fur Felt
Hats for Men; “Snap Brim” model, as depicted in
above illustration. Colors of Slate, Light Grey,
Fawn, Beaver, Black or Brown.
YOURS FOR . .
12/11
Men’s
Felt Hats
186
Formerly listed at 25/-1 Men’s silk-
lined pure Fur Felt Hats, “Snap-
brim” model, in latest snappy color
tones. Greaseproof head leathers.
Country
HATS
Reduced!
The
“Drover.”
Nlen’s
Panamas
226
Usually priced at 27/6 and 30/-!
Men’s folder-shape genuine South
American Panamas. Black silk
bands. Sizes, 6 J to 7§.
Murdoch’s improved “Drover Fur
Felt Hats for out-o’-door workers.
3 Jin. brim. Mili-
tary Fawn. 25/-
value hats. SALE,
18/11
Murdoch’s “Sombrero” Fur Felts for
country men. Rolled brim. Military
Fawn, Black or
Slate. 32/6 value
hats. SALE . .
24/9
WE PAY
FREIGHT.
. '
C
rane
PARKt, GEORGE STRfctu
WHERE THE GOOD HATS s ARE.”.
Address
letters to
Desk “R.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Bought” (Warner), at Sydney Plaza, is
melodrama as regards mush and music, but
it gets right away from tradition in the
matter of ethics. Imagine a middle-aged
stage mother —a seamstress, hard-working,
unselfish, sweet-faced —saying to her daugh-
ter : “You are illegitimate. Your father
wanted to marry me, but I couldn’t stand
him as a husband: he was common.” You
can’t? And neither can you imagine a stage
heroine who is seduced by a man she doesn’t
care for and who, instead of appearing later
with a baby in the sable habiliments of woe,
makes a happy marriage with the one she
has loved all along. Yet such things do
happen, and it is a sign of the times that
the talkies have begun to admit it. Other-
wise, “Bought” conforms to type, with the
folly of snobbishness as its moral, and the
deserted father in the lugubrious role that
used to be played by the betrayed woman.
Constance Bennett is a vain, pleasure-loving
girl. She falls in love with her neighbor,
honest Ben Lyon, after her mother’s
death, and all would have been well, no
doubt, if she hadn’t met. a millionaire’s son
and got engaged to him on the false pretence
of being “the daughter of an English army
officer who was a friend of Kipling.” Her
father —played by her real father, Richard
Bennett —hovers uneasily in the background
during the adventures. lie has a profound
inferiority complex, which causes him to
look as if he had a pain in his inside, yet he
is a successful business man and enormously
rich. When the millionaire’s son learns
that the story about the English army officer
is a lie he is scandalised. Miss Bennett
breaks off the engagement, and finds her
father and Ben waiting to forgive and forget.
Mr. Bennett is the only weak member of
the cast. His overacting is emphasised by
the restrained work of the others, and his
make-up is as out of date as his pathos.
Constance Bennett conveys, with great skill,
the emotions of peace as well as joy which
she experiences when with the man she
loves, and the vague discontent that troubles
her in the presence of the other man. Clara
Blandick is admirable, as usual, and Ben
Lyon drifts easily through a part that calls
for no particular effort.
* * *
“Twenty-four Hours’’ (Paramount), which
is not the worse of the two undistin-
guished films now showing at Sydney
Regent, is the story of what happens to a
quartette of New Yorkers within two rounds
of the clock. Eleven o’clock on a winter
night finds Jim Towner, wealthy and bored,
submerging his cares in bootleg brandy at a
mixed party, while his wife, Fanny, watches
her lover in the process of transferring his
affections to another woman. After the party
Jim adjourns to a speakeasy, and from there
to a night club to seek .solace in the com-
pany of Rosie Dugan. Fanny goes home to
bed. Rosie is living apart from her husband,
Tony. Tony, pursued by a rival gang, comes
to Rosie for shelter, but she has him thrown
out. He threatens Towner. A few hours
before dawn Rosie takes Jim to her apart-
ment. locks the door on the slumbering
drunk and hides the key. Tony turns up,
strangles her and flees, only to be shot
dead. Jim arises, bursts out of the locked
room, perceives the corpse, realises that he
will be accused of the deed, and decides to
make a clean breast of his carryings on with
Rosie to the police. The police won’t
swallow his yarn, but finger-print evidence
is found which establishes his innocence.
He is freed, and with the forgiving Fanny
smarts out on a second honeymoon just as
the clock nears 11 p.m. again. The stuff
is made tolerable by the accomplished acting
of Clive Brook in the role of the drunken
husband, by the spirited playing of Miriam
Hopkins as Rosie and the naturalness of Kay
Francis’s Fanny.
“Confessions of a College Girl,” the other
picture, is also a Paramount film, and feat-
tures Phillips Holmes and Sylvia Sidney, who
were starred in “An American Tragedy.”
For a wonder it is not crowded with weirdly-
dressed louts, the girls are not continually
screeching, and there is no football match.
Patricia is pursued by Dan and Hal. She
prefers Dan, but Peggy, a former petting
partner, lets the cat out of the bag,
and Patricia dismisses Dan. That young
man and Peggy are involved in an
out-of-bounds escapade, and Peggy, who is
the only one found out, is expelled. Dan
and Patricia -.meet again, arid —here the
censor intervenes. Dan’s participation in
the out-of-bounds episode comes to light,
and he is fired out of the college. He
leaves without a word to Patricia. Appa-
rently, because she is about to become a
mother and needs protection, that young
female makes eyes at Ilal. For no reason
whatever she commissions Peggy, who has
returned to the scene, to deliver a letter to
Hal telling him what passed between her and
Dan. Peggy destroys the epistle, and Hal
and Patricia are married without the former
knowing what’s what. Later Dan comes
back, so much of the truth as the censor
thinks it good for the young to learn leaks
out, and after an impassioned scene the rub-
bish ends.
# * *
There are no musieomedy frills about
“Men Like These,” at Sydney Lyceum. The
film, made by British International Pictures
with the cd-operation of the Navy, presents
the ramming and sinking of a submarine
with a scrupulous respect for verisimilitude.
The eight inen trapped in the torpedo-chamber
pray; then prepare to escape. Water is
admitted so that air pressure within will
counterbalance water pressure without. The
hatch can then be opened, and some, at least,
may escape. Waiting, they sing “Tipperary.”
A youngster, nerve-racked by the deadly
anxiety, is giving way to hysteria but is
braced by. a few quiet words from his
petty-officer. They laugh at a more or
less funny story. Two Chinese cooks
watch every movement of the whites pati-
ently, stoically. Then two men, donning
Davis rescue apparatus, manage to escape
through the hatch before the water pressure
closes it again. The six others wait, wait,
their faces drawn with the strain. At lavst
the petty-officer gives the word. The'hatch is
again opened. Water, pours down through it,
and the air rushes out in mighty bubbles,
carrying each iriari fid the surface. They are
all picked up by sailors standing by. A
simple incident, but great drama. Sound and
photography are clear. The names of the
actors are not given.
¥ * #
Sydney Capitol’s new show, “The Sin of
Madelon Claudet,” based on Knoblock’s
“Lullaby,” harps on the discordant strings
of harlotry and mother-love. Helen Hayes,
in the title-role, impersonates Madelon at
various stages of her life, from 18 to 60, and
her make-up is so effective that only her
voice destroys the illusion. A Normandy
farmer’s daughter, she elopes to a Paris
garret with a painter, who deserts her.
A baby is born. She puts it out to
board, and becomes mistress of Boretti
(Lewis Stone), a jewel thief. He proposes to
marry her, but is arrested and shoots himself.
Madelon is imprisoned for 10 years as his
accomplice. Freed, she goes to claim her
son Larry at an orphanage, where the doctor
in charge (Jean Hersholt) warns her that
with her record she would mar his chances
of success in life. Then follow vignettes
showing Madelon’s descent to pub-hag and
sneak-tliief; anything to get money to edu-
cate her son, who believes her dead. Miss
Hayes redeems the piece by resolutely refus-
ing to wallow in the stew of sentiment pro-
vided for her.
* V *
Admirers of Ben Travers are catered for
at Sydney Haymarket, where “The Chance
of a Night Time” (British Dominions),
adapted from the stage farce, is the major
draw. The film is enlivened by the inclusion
in the cast of Ralph Lynn, who specialises in
silly-ass parts, and Winifred Shotter, the
lady who wore the pyjamas in “Rookery
Nook.” Lynn is a muddle-headed solicitor
who is compelled by circumstances to pose as
a specialty dancer at a house party. The
presence of his fiancee as a guest, the
arrival of the real dancer and other mishaps
make the picture a lively one. On the same
programme is “High Treason” (British
Dominions), a film producer’s idea of what
the world would look like a mere eight
years hence. Television, the English Channel
tunnel, electric jazz orchestras and abundant
aerial transport facilities are accomplished
facts. The women wear white plus-fours
and open-necked blouses, and the men affect
knee-breeches. The story is concerned with
the efforts of a small band of peacemakers
to prevent war between the two great con-
federacies into which the world is then
divided. Bonita Hume, Humherron Wright
and Jameson Thomas manage to make the
concoction fairly plausible.


W. JNO. BAKER
LIMITED,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE W. JN O.
BAKER NEW
IMPROVED LAMB
CLAM.
435 —The position of the
blade enables the user to
complete the operation
without moving his grip
on the Clam, the result
being a cleaner job,
quicker healing and sav-
ing of time; about Bin.
over all. Blackwood
handle grip, Brass Guard ;
width across jaw, lfin.,
12/6 each, post free.
W. JNO. BAKER
DAGGING AND
BOTTLE OUTFIT.
This Outfit contains sin.
Red Tang Double Hollow-
ground Dagging Shears.
J-pint Tin Bottle and
small Oil Stone. The
Sheath is made of the
best picked leather, and
riveted throughout. Has
loops for attaching to
saddle; also double-
handed girth strap.
No. 15.
The above Outfit com-
plete,
23/6. Postage, 1/3.
SHEARS ONLY.
sin. DAGGING—
-6/6 per pair.
Postage, 9d.
6in. LAMB—-
7/- per pair.
Postage, 9d.
7£in. PULL SIZE—
-8/6 per pair.
Postage, 1/-
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
“The Storm Cloud in Europe”
and
“The New Guard and the
Communists”
are a couple of the subjects of leading articles
in
“THE BARRIER MINER”
during last week.
Not an ordinary country newspaper, this
“Barrier Miner,” but a newspaper of Metropoli-
tan status, though not in size—which means
nothing in quality. Published daily at Broken
Hill. Get your message into it if you can.
RISERS
i ESS
%
THE
SELF-STROPPING
RAZOR
è
A Valet razor is
always ready —just as it
is. Blade in place for strop-
ping—for cleaning. Always sharp-
stropped in ten seconds- —cleaned in two.
Nothing to fix. Nothing to adjust. Scrap
the early-rising habit —use a Valet. Sets
from 4/6 to 67/6 each You never need
remove the blade except to change it
once in about sixty perfect shaves. All
high-class dealers sell Valet razors and
blades and their essential adjunct
Auto Strop Shaving Cream.
VALET
Au to Strop
Safety Razor
BRITISH MADE
Apents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Legal Notice.
ESTATE OF WILLIAM WALTER- PERSSE late of
, Ardlethan New South Wales Mining- Ao-enr
deceased intestate. RICHARD DUDLEY PERSSF
born at Ballarat November 24 1853 brother of th
said intestate is entitled ■ to moneys in the said
estate. He was last heard of in Queensland about
45 years ago. LET the said RICHARD. DUDLEY
PERSSE or his Legal Representative or his children
TAKE NOTICE that unless a claim by them or anv
of them is received by THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
107 Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales within
three months after the publication hereof the Public
Trustee will distribute the said moneys held for
Richard Dudley Persse amongst the next of kin of
William Walter Persse of whose claims he then has
notice.
E. .7. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEW ZEALAND
...via Matson Liners, the
three and a half day run to
Auckland will prove not only
efficient traveling, but each
day will be replete with in-
teresting events.
Music .. . dancing ... deck
sports to make the time pass
enjoyably.
Meals which maintain a
high standard of excellence
... in culinary skill... in de-
lightful service!
Staterooms ... commodi-
ous, airy, immaculate.
EARLY SAILING DATES
SYDNEY AUCKLAND
©February 9, March 29.
Ask for information .
Write to Dept. Al.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel. B-7981-3
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Rheumatism
Whether you suffer the first agonising twinges,
or are now gripped in “untold agonies,” here is
something you should know and know at once!
If you are a sufferer from early
symptoms of rheumatism—swollen
joints, short, sharp twinges of pain, back
aching, shooting pains down the legs and
arms —and if you are neglecting these
symptoms you are surely walking
straight towards health-breakdown.
You, too, will come to the stage of “un-
told agonies” night and day. You will
be a misery to yourself and all around
you.
THIS REMEDY BEARS
A GUARANTEE
Therefore, when we most strongly urge
you to prove for yourself, in your home, whilst
going about work or duties, what De Witt’s
Pills will do for you, please read these facts.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not
a new, untested, untried “craze-of-the-
moment” preparation.
For over forty years they have been bring-
ing health, yes, and happiness to thousands of
men and women. That is why they sell by
the million.
In practically every town and village there
is someone relieved of terrible rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, bladder weakness, kidney
trouble who could tell you just how good
this remedy is.
Doctors in many countries recommend and
use De Witt s Pills. There are records of
thousands of cases of bad rheumatism, bed-
ridden, hospital cases relieved by De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
In 24 hours from the very first dose of
De Witt’s Pills you will see results. This is a
definite guarantee. If not proved, return your
partly-used supply and your money will be
refunded in full.
With these simple, clear facts before you,
let De Witt’s Pills banish your pain and once
again build up health. Personally, for pride
in your health arid vigor, no matter what
your age, we say—go to your chemist now.
He can tell you all about this 40-year-old
remedy. Do not continue in dangerous suffer-
ing a day longer, but start with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills NOW. They are sold
in = popular size, price 3/6.
v yy\W WWW \A \ 1 11 / 1 1 <!•/'■ ////////A ///.%', /
SDcWITTS
'AAA KIDNEY AND BLADDER
A////// UML'/W '*■* \ \ '
"v
m
4
Z-j^
ONE BOTTLE OF De WITTS PILLS ENDED
TERRIBLE PAINS.
Miss D. Keenan, “Engadine,” Onslow Avenuo, Eliza-
both Bay, Sydney, writes: “I am delighted with the
remits obtained from De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, which ended the terrible pains in my bach
before I had finished one bottle. I had tried many
other remedies without getting relief


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
21st TO 30th MARCH, 1932.
Nine Days Five Nights.
£14,000 —Prizes —£ 14,000
Entries Close:
HORSES (including Trotting events) 13th February
CATTLE and PIGS 15th February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS, 19th and 20th February
DOGS and CATS 22nd February
AGRICULTURE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE 19th February
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export classes) 19th February
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS 29th February
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavour House, G. 0. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY,
BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
TRADE ff MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
BRAKE
LINING
e
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SELF-SOWN WHEAT.
“Cire”: “Woorinen” (B. 30/12/’3l)
rightly says that “had a little more rain fallen
in September, Malice self-sown crops would
have been records.” Throughout the north-
ern Wimmera, as well as the Malice, thou-
sands of acres of fallow remained untouched
because of excessive rainfall during the crop-
ping period. This, unfortunately, occurred
when the fallow acreage was at its lowest
for many years, in consequence of-the poli-
ticians’ entreaties that farmers should grow
more wheat iii 1930. The copious rains
of the early part of 1931, while limiting
cropping operations, gave self-sown crops
a tremendous start, so much so that stock
generally made little impression on the growth.
But had there been correspondingly heavy
rains in the latter part of the year not
nearly so much wheat would have been har-
vested. The reason should be obvious to
those familiar with the ravages of smut.
In our district (Culgoa, Vic.) as much
self-sown as sown wheat is being stripped.
Further south, in the heavier soils, self-sown
crops are as two to one. The finest yield
to my knowledge is that of G. Kennedy,
of Berriwillock: He lias two blocks of
1280 acres covered with self-sown wheat
yielding between seven and eight bags—a
thing without precedent in the history of
this southern Malice district.
SALT PATCHES ON WHEAT FARMS.
“Sandow”: In S. Aus., as in W.A., there
are thousands of acres of good wheat-grow-
ing land affected by chain-square salt
patches, which remain bare all the season.
Experts are endeavoring to solve the pro-
blem. So are farmers, Avho don’t profess to
be experts. Neighbors of ours have tried
various supers., and have carted stable
manure and ploughed it. into the ground. * )n
our S. Aus. holding we have proved that
sand is the best of them all.
My brother had a paddock of 90 acres that
was half salt patches. It was elevated land,
miles from sea or swamp. A large sandhill
started to drift badly; neglected, it spread all
over this paddock and others. We fallowed
the paddock that year and worked it five
times before seeding, mixing the sand with
limestone soil as much as possible to give
it a good trial. Cropped On three occasions,
it has yielded eight bags to the acre. On
the other side of the fence, land worked the
same way yielded four bags.
This year the crop was as even as possible,
and you could not find a salt patch on the
whole of it. We have since scooped sand
on to another paddock. I strongly advise
any farmer who has these patches to give
up manure and fill their lorries with sand.
BULK HANDLING IN W.A.
“Wodgil”: Impressed by what lie lias
heard of that Westralian experiment in
bulk handling of Wheat, described by
“R.R.R.” (B. 6/.1/.’32), Ilawker,, the new
Minister of Markets, is sending men from
liis department to study the system at first
hand and report. If the report is favorable,
the Westralian scheme will be introduced
into South Aus., and perhaps Victoria. Co-
incidence of cheap wheat and dear corn-
sacks has driven the need for bulk handling
home to thousands of farmers who never
bothered about it before.
Evidence accumulates that the Westralian
plan, improvised as it may be said to. have
been, is giving satisfaction. A farmer in the
Yelbeni district, at. the eastern end of the
wheat belt, ordered bags for delivery in
November. They did not come to hand for
n month, and, fearing loss, he did not wait
for them. He is 13 miles from the local
siding, at which there is a bulk-handling
installation. From. Nov. 20 to December 18,
to quote, his own report to the “Primary
Producer,” he “delivered over 6000 bushels
of wheat : into the silo, carting up to six
loads a day. On those 6000 bushels I have
saved £7O in bags alone, also wages of
man for bag-sewing, which would amount
to £l2 ;' and I am losing only a halfpenny a
bushel for bulk delivery, making a total
saving of £69 10s. The bags I used for
delivery of wheat I have utilised for my
seed; therefore I consider it has really cost
me nothing for bags to deliver my wheat
into the elevator.”
BABY BEEF.
“Poley” : My net returns for year-old fat
vealers sold at Ilomebush, Sydney, were
130 s. per head. This represented a cash
return to the farm of 2s. 6d. per head per
week. Net returns from fat suckers on tne
same market were about 10s. per head, u
cash return of Bd. per lamb per week, lhe
lamb proposition pays best, but the vealers
came from sheep paddocks and were an
additional profit. . ... A
A few head of cattle, run in well-managed
sheep paddocks, eat off the rougher grasses,
keep the sheep pastures sweeter (especi-
ally when there are river or creek frontages)
and contrive to put on splendid condition.
Farmers running cattle. will .get the best
return by seeing that their herd is of an early-
maturing breed; they eat no more than
mongrels and give a greater cash return. I
use the pure Aberdeen Angus bulls and find
them very prepotent over average cows ot
mixed breeds, and their vealers are very
satisfactory. I keep the heifer calf, and
the purer the resultant grade the better
price the vealers fetch; The pure-bred Angus
bull on a pure-bred Hereford cow gives a
wonderfully good early-maturing fat vealer,
but if the cattleman’s aim is to breed jus
herd to all blacks, it is best to start with
well-grown run cows of mixed blood, as the
pure Angus blood of the bull will then more
quickly dominate the situation.
MR. RUSSELL’S RECOMMENDATIONS.
Before his death—which is a great loss to
the Queensland pastoral industry—W. A.
Russell, Dalby’s M.L.A., made it his busi-
ness to dispel the doubts existing among
farmers and stockowners as to whether the
Meat Industry Board would treat on owners’
account stock for export or chilling. He was
able to assure them that the board would
perform the whole service, from the receipt
of stock to the loading of meat aboard ship,
including the disposal of by-products and
rejects.
The M. 1.8., Mr. Russell pointed out, is
desirous of establishing a definite brand
for export lamb from various districts,
and will register the brands to be used
on all products of various qualities. For
instance, lamb of the first quality may
be designated “Darling” or “Darling
Downs.” The Brisbane works can treat
600 to 700 sheep or lambs per hour:
they can aLso handle 1000 pigs and 500
to 600 calves per day; and after the
domestic supply of cattle for Brisbane has
been attended to (it entails a weekly killing
of 1200 head) they can deal with 3500 to
4000 head per week for export—chilling,
freezing and storing capacity. It has been
found necessary to have a minimum number
from each consignor: 250 head of lambs,
sheep and pigs, and 50 head of cattle; but
pooling of lots is allowed. Country agents
may arrange this pooling.
Mr. Russell had a great opinion of the
possibilities of the'Downs for lamb-raising and
the fattening of sheep, cattle and pigs for ex-
port, and of the .services which the abattoirs
are capable of rendering in this regard. It
was his intention to send drafts from his own
property to be treated at the, works from
time to time, and to have the results pub-
lished. He was not spared to carry out
his public-spirited plans, but his last words
on the subject.. should be preserved: “I
exhort all owners to avail themselves of this
method of treating and disposing of their
stock. The. way is now open for producers
to utilise the abattoir facilities and services
for the treatment of stock on their own
account all the year round. These abattoirs
are primarily for our use, and it is up to
us to give our full co-operation to the Meat
Industry Board, which has been established
for the benefit of the people of Queensland.”
BLOWFLY TRAPS.
“Liss”: There is a lot more in the trap-
ping of blowflies than “Cooramin” (B.
6/l/’32) imagines. Flies prefer to enter a
trap upwards. I have experimented with, every
type of home-made trap that I could think
of, using every bait that suggested itself to
me, and, while some traps will catch and
hold some flies and others will catch a lot
and lose. most of them again, there, is only
one style, broadly speaking, that will catch
most of the flies attracted to it and hold
all that enter.
A petrol or some similar tin and a half
are required, three tins making two traps.
The half-tin forms the lower portion of the
trap and contains the bait. As there must
on no account be any leakage of the juice
from this, any holes must be soldered up.
About, half-way up each side of this tin a
horizontal slit is made about 4in. long, each
end being nicked up for -jin. The resulting
flap is prised outwards sufficiently far to
allow a fly to enter.
The top is cut out of the larger tin and
a gauze pyramid soldered into it, so that
its apex will be in about the centre of
the tin; in this apex there is a hole, about
lin. in diameter, with ragged edges. A
square is cut in the bottom, which now
becomes the top, leaving a margin of about
an inch all round; gauze is soldered over
this. The larger tin is attached to the
smaller so that there is no escape between
them, and the pyramid is pointing upwards.
The gauze window in the top attracts the
flies up from the bait, through the pyramid
into the trap, where they remain till the
trap is emptied. To make this easy I solder
into the side of the tin a top of a treacle-
tin with a push-in lid.
For bait, use liver and lights. Keep it
moist, and you will be astonished at the
number of flies caught.
ROTATIONAL GRAZING.
“E.S.S.”: It is officially reported that
nutritious drought-resisting native grasses
on which the far-western N.S.W. grazier
depends have, through overstocking and
rabbit infestation, been eliminated from
some areas and thinned out in others. Con-
sequently the carrying capacity of that
country has been reduced, and the effects of
dry spells become apparent more quickly,
as the weedy growths that have replaced
the natural grasses won’t stand the dry
conditions.
I pointed out long ago that this would
happen, and that thefine sheep country I
knew would become waste, or next door to
it, if care were not taken. In my experience
there, everything was left to chance, and no
provision made for the future. In fact, in
many of the once-splendid areas the natural
resources were subjected to treatment that
could lead nowhere but to a desert.
The best way of retrieving the position is
by rotational grazing. This is practised by a
good many dairy-farmers in Victoria, but
is very little followed in other States. One
Victorian dairyman, with only 144 acres,
has divided his holding into 10 paddocks,
and with attention to the pasturage main-
tains double the number of cows that he
could before the subdivision. In the west-
ern N.S.W. pastoral areas the paddocks
run to many square miles in extent, and
generally every one is continuously stocked
as long as there are feed and water in
it. This not only tends to destroy the re-
cuperative powers of the natural grasses and
herbage, but the large areas make it impos-
sible to get rid of the rabbits. What the
pest consumes would keep hundreds of sheep
on an average western run, and rabbits sub-
sist and do enormous damage when the
grass is gone by eating the roots and ring-
barking the edible shrubs. The saving of
this loss and damage, resulting in a greater
carrying capacity, would soon recoup the
owner for the expense of vermin-proof
fencing.
For rotational grazing the run must be
divided into small paddocks, and the stock
shifted from one to another, allowing some
to be always spelling—to recover from heavy
grazing—and permitting the grasses, salt-
bush and herbage to seed. Once the grass
is in full head and ripening, the sheep can
be turned into it and allowed to crop it
down. The new growth, in fair seasons,
can be fed down again, and then allowed
to recover. An annual period for seeding
is not. necessary with the drought-resisting
interior plants, such as wallaby, Flinders,
Mitchell, coolali, blue, brown-top, Warrego
summer, native millet and star grasses ; and
these are all palatable and. fattening in
their dry, after-seeding stage.
The small paddock not only conduces to
a quick riddance of the rabbit pest, , but
makes it easy for each section of the run
to be cared for and improved by planting,
and to conserve fodder for the recurrent dry
spells. A suitable level paddock should be
kept for cutting. Sheep may be turned
into it to clean up the paddock after the
crop is lifted. Nearly any of the grasses
mentioned makes good hay—a stand-by when
a long drought has stripped all the pad-
docks. There are patches on the average
N.S.W. western run that carry more edible
shrubs than grass, and also patches of
mulga; these should be regarded as drought
paddocks, for the trees and shrubs are green
when all the grass and herbage are gone.
But none should be cut down; lop those
whose brandies are out of reach of the
sheep or cattle. The reservation will enable
these paddocks to be improved by the propa-
gation, on scanty patches, of hopbush, cotton-
bush, bluebusli, silverbush, emubush and salt-
bush.
Though each section of the run from
time to time is unstocked, under the system
of rotational grazing, it can’t be considered
to be idle, for it is recuperating and en-
suring a continuance of the carrying value
of the whole area. The run, too, in small,
nursed paddocks, will pasture more sheep
than it could otherwise do when everything
is left to chance. It might be said that the
obstacle in the way is water; but many of
the immense western paddocks have large
tanks and dams in them.
CURING HEAVY TOBACCO-LEAF.
“In many instances tobacco grown on rich
or heavy soils cannot be cured to the desired
lemon color. It goes directly from green to a
mottled brown. In such cases a mahogany-
colored leaf is the best that can be expected.’’
So write Messrs. W. J. B. McDonald and
G. E. Coghlan, who have .been contributing
a very useful series of articles on tobacco-
growing and -curing to the Vic. Agricul-
tural “Journal.” These officers recommend
the formula evolved by Mr. G. E. Marks for
curing this type of leaf :—-
“Start the fires as soon as the barn is
full, and proceed as with other types by
raising the temperature to about SO to 90
deg., and let it remain without ventilation
at this degree from 12 to 30 hours. During
this period the atmosphere must be kept
moist, as in the case of yellow tobacco, with
from 2 to 4 deg. difference between the wet-
and dry-bulb thermometers. , After, say, 18
hours, ’ the leaf will have changed to a
lighter shade of green, and at this stage
the vents, both in the roof and at ground
level, should be opened about 2in. The heat
should be retained at 95deg. until the leaf
has attained about a half-yellow or. mottled
color, when the top vents should be opened
to give about 16 square feet and the bottom
vents 8 square feet of ventilating space.
“The temperature should then be gradu-
ally raised to llOdeg. F., at the rate of
ldeg. per hour, and kept at llOdeg. F. until
the leaf is about half-dry, when the tem-
perature should be raised to 120 deg. F., at
the rate of 2deg. per hour. It should
remain at 120 deg. until the web of the leaf
is all dry, except a strip along the veins and
midribs, when the temperature may be raised
to 125 deg. F., and left at this point for a
few hours to complete the drying of the
web. It should then be increased at the
rate of sdeg. per hour until lBodeg. is
reached, and kept at this until the midribs
are thoroughly dried out.
“In curing heavy tobacco, careful atten-
tion should be paid to the first stages of the
process. The earlier the yellow color appears
on the leaf the sooner the vents will require
opening, and as the yellow color increases
so the ventilation will have to be increased.
The drying and curing go on simultaneously’;
therefore some experience and practice are
needed to just finish drying the web by the
time the best color is obtained, which is
usually from bright to dark mahogany.”
U.S. FRUIT-FARM METHODS.
“Errol Eastene” : I worked for a time on
a fruit farm at Sebastopol, .California. My
impressions may be useful to Australian
apple-growers. Gravensteins were being har-
vested, and I was handed a step-ladder and
a tin. with a hook attached ; the hook was
to hang the tin on the step-ladder or in
the tree when picking. Step-ladders were
necessary; many of the trees were over 20
feet high and were capable of producing 40
bushels each. Special instructions were given
to obviate bruising, and to ensure that all
fruit was picked with stalks intact.
The apples were taken straight out of the
orchard to the district co-op. packing house.
Here all A and A 1 grades were wrapped
in tissue-paper and packed for Chicago, New
York . and other large centres of distribu-
tion ; they travel by special fruit trains that
stop only for fuel and water and make
faster time than mail trains;. Inferior grades
were returned to the home . packing-shed,
where, together with the windfalls, which
were carefully gathered, were sorted over. B
and B 1 grades were packed in open boxes and
taken three times a week, by a four-ton
truck travelling 60 m.p.k. on concrete and
macadamised roads, to the Berkeley
markets, supplying Oaklands, San Francisco
and surrounding districts. Two more grades
were made from the rest; those of good subr
stance were sent to the peeling machines of
the drying plant, consisting of an oil-
burner, trays and sulphur wells, installed
on the place. The dried article was first
quality and sold readily to buyers who called.
The other grade was taken by a factory pro-
ducing a non-alcoholic cider cordial. And
that wasn’t all. The peelings from the
machines were placed in wooden barrels
and were collected in a bulk waggon by a
vinegar manufacturer. What is to prevent
our orchardists dealing with their leftovers —-
the thousands of cases that go to waste every
year—in a similar manner?
HOT-WEATHER POULTRY
MORTALITY.
“J. Point”: Every year during January
and February some poultry-farmers .sustain
losses, generally through heat apoplexy:
and the mortality is always greatest
amongst the birds in full lay. Attention
to a number of details will reduce it to a
(Continued on pogc 26.)


S 9
f
S£=J
Tli
* I
A
u'
A long-wearing
lightweight
Here’s a supple, easy-fitting
Abbey boot, carefully made
from leather chosen for tough-
ness, lightness and pliancy. It’s
so shaped to the foot that all
strain is eliminated—you can
lace it closely without feeling
any tightness because the upper
is designed in an arch over the
instep. And the back is cut
away to set snugly in at ankle.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and ball
sizes. Specify width when ordering,
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 264
e
CONSTIPATION
THE THIEF
OF ENERGY/
•
There is no need for you to suffer
from constipation when you can
correct it with FIGSEN. Figsen
is as prompt in action as it is
gentle and natural. No purging.
No griping pain. Figsen acts
smoothly on the intestinal muscles
and helps them to perform
their natural functions. Figsen
is easy to take and will not
upset the most delicate stomach.
'XL
your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to SeM.
Personal Attention
Officii: 4< Bridie Street. Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION. LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. Y. BOOTH.
O'
A
Happy
Su{sestion
pOR Children’s
Frocks, Rompers,
Overalls, in fact for all
kinds of Children’s wear,
use “80-Peep” Print. It is
obtainable in a large variety
of styles, designs and colorings
and is 36 inches wide.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS AND
STORES.
Produced, by the makers of “TRICOLINE”—the equal
to silk.
it
99
f/Ufaumd
for Childrens Wear
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write*
MR. H. G. RANDELL, “The Grace Building/
York Street, Sydney.
è
minimum. You can’t have too much shade
—not shelters of galvanised-iron, which are
almost as hot underneath as out in the open,
but preferably shade from natural trees if
available; if it is not, bough shelters are
good. Then drinking water must be kept
where it is cool, and it should be changed
frequently.
Green feed is essential —good succulent
stuff helps to cool the blood. Although at
times it is a mistake to give too much, this
cannot apply to the period under notice.
You may reduce the egg-yield slightly, but
that’s a lot better than losing valuable birds.
Lucerne and silver beet are recommended,
but any greenstuff is good—l have used
choko-leaves with success when nothing else
was handy.
The healthier you keep your birds, the
greater their resistance to the excessive
heat; therefore, see that none of their
vitality is being sapped by parasites. Spray
continuously for red mites, and provide good
dust-baths for body lice. There shouldn’t
be worms in a well-attended flock, but a
sharp lookout should be kept.
Finally, see that the feed is first-class, and
woo the birds’ appetites when they become
jaded. Don’t force too much mash, but
rather increase the grain. Don’t make any
radical changes in the diet suddenly; do
it gradually. Sprouted oats or wheat can be
fed to advantage.
QUEENSLAND’S EGG BOARD.
“Grit”: People rushed into the egg-pro-
duction business after the Queensland Egg
Board had stabilised the market; hence the
troubles complained of by “F. Tuck” (B.
30/12/’3l). Before the board took charge
I received 4d. a dozen for first-grade eggs
from Roma-street agents. The joke about
the Q.E.B. being a Government concern is
a good one; the only interest the Govern-
ment ever took in the board was of a hostile
nature, for the board and its offshoot, the
Poultry-farmers’ Co-op., shook Roma-street
to its foundations. Surplus eggs have to
go out of the State, but if Roma-street sends
them it will want a profit. The export levy
is a guarantee to the bank ; it is charged only
during the export season. The equalisation
payment favors the grower. If he sells his
eggs under permit he pays the board 2k per
cent, for expenses, and justly. “Tuck’s”
eggs are appai’ently of low grade, and low-
grade eggs cannot be produced at a profit
in Queensland. I have been in the game
for 18 years and I favor the board. But per-
haps a year of open marketing would stop
a lot of growling.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is there a market for the thin-shelled
Queensland nut locally and overseas, and
at what price? (2) Production per tree?—
7541. .
(1) There is a big demand locally for
the Queensland nut, and a good market over-
seas. Prices are 9d. to lOd. per lb. (2)
Established trees produce up to 1501 b. per
annum.
(1) Is there a ready sale for onions in
Sydney markets? (2) Do periods of glut
occur? (3) Which type meets with the
best demand , brown or white? —7622.
(1) Yes. State supplies are insufficient and
large quantities are annually imported from
Vic. and Tas. (2) Yes, in late autumn and
early winter. (3) White for the early
market and brown for general requirements.
Write to Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for
leaflet.
I have plenty of raisins on hand; how can
I make white-wine vinegar? —763B.
Select a stone jar with a wide mouth, or
a wooden cask, and put in about 41b. to 61b.
of raisins. Cover with water, and add half
a cup of soured white wine or white vinegar
to every lib. of raisins. Stir well, cover with
a cloth, and let it stand in a warm room.
In three weeks strain into bottles and cork.
(1) Method of preserving French beans
for use in winter? (2) How to preserve
passion-fruit pulp? —76B4.
(1) Select beans of even degrees of ripe-
ness, matured but not hard. Trim off the
stalks, and pack them into a stone jar.
Every three or four layers of beans must be
sprinkled with dry salt, and the beans also
must be perfectly dry and fresh. When the
jar is full, tie several thicknesses of stout
paper over the top to exclude all damp,
and store in a cool, dry place. To use the
beans, immerse them in fresh water for an
hour or two before cutting up. (2) Scoop
the pulp into preserving-jars quite full, set
new rubbers and lids lightly in place, and
place in a saueepan of cold water over the
fire. Bring to the boil, and let the contents
of the jars sterilise for 15 minutes from the
time of boiling. Take out the jars, fasten
down the lids, and stand the jars upside
down for an hour. If they leak, they must
be boiled up again ; if there is no leakage,
store away in a cool, dark place. It is
important to secure perfect sterilisation by
heat.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Murrawong”; For burning firebreaks, a
useful torch can easily be made from a
4ft. length of fin. or §in. galvanised pip-
ing. Bend one end of the pipe till the
whole is nearly the shape of a hockey stick
—a wider angle is preferred, however. In
the bent end insert a wick—a piece of old
moleskin trousers rolled to fit the pipe takes
a lot of beating. Fill the pipe with kero-
sene and fit a good cork in the other end;
when the wick is saturated apply a match,
and you will have a torch that will burn
steadily for half an hour or longer, accord-
ing to the diameter of the pipe. It will
stay alight in a fairish wind where matches
would be useless, and its chief attraction is
that it can be carried and used from horse-
back. In addition to its inclusion in the
fire-fighting gear, 1 have used this type of
torch for years for burning off. refills of kero-
sene being carried in a Worcester-sauce
bottle on the saddle.
“Mimosa”: Barb-wire cuts in cattle or
horses must not be neglected. Wash away
any dirt with an antiseptic, and if the wound
is fresh and bleeding treat with alum powder.
A torn limb may require a bandage; this pre-
vents the animal licking or biting the wound,
especially if the bandage is soaked in a solu-
tion of carbolic. Tincture of iodine is a good
antiseptic. After cleaning and dressing the
wound apply Stockholm tar; this soothes
the wound, keeps out cold air, dust and dirt
and checkmates flies.
“Culgoa”: Two more uses to which dis-
carded motor-tyres can be put. By cutting
two inches all around the centre portion
a useful power belt can be made. With
melted rubber as an adhesive this belt is
most effective for light work. Where ants
are destroying mulberries, cut a tyre length-
wise in two and place around trunk. A
few lino, tacks and some putty make an
effective join. Fill with water and the
ants will be disappointed.
“Mimosa”: Warts occasionally disappear
without treatment as cattle grow older, but
most cases require systematic treatment. If
small at place of attachment they can be
removed with sterile scissors or by tying a
sterile thread tightly round close to the
base, which should be touched with tincture
of iodine or glacial acetic acid. For large
warts, tying off is the better method, and
treat bases with either silver nitrate or glacial
acetic acid. Extremely large warts are best
removed by a vet. Taken in time, they may be
destroyed by daily applications of glacial
acetic acid or tincture of iodine; before
applying acid, protect the healthy surround-
ing skin by thoroughly greasing with lard,
clean, unsalted fat or vaseline, but be care-
ful not to grease the warts. If large areas
of the body are wart-covered internal treat-
ment is necessary. One tablespoon twice
daily of Fowler’s Solution is the dose for
a six- to twelve-month-old calf.
“Dimon”: Everyone has noticed how a
floor creaks underfoot in the quiet hours
of the night. The main cause is too much
space between the supports (blocks) of the
sleepers; placing the flooring joists close
together doesn’t make much difference if
there is any give or spring in the sleepers.
To stop the creaking, first go over the
floor and tap the nails down; if that isn’t
effective, drive a screw in between the two
boards wherever the creak occurs. Some
floors creak on heavy, solid foundations, but
a screw 7 —in the longitudinal joints—will
stop it.
“Karaway”: At Dromore station, on the
Murrumbidgee, where over 500 acres are
under lucerne, the practice is to graze the
lucerne one year and cut it for hay the
next. Lambs are turned into the paddocks
to clean them up immediately after the
cutting; and, in that way, from 700 to
1000 lambs a year are fattened for market.
“G.H.A.” : If the binder begins to throw off
unbound hay don’t immediately buy a new
knotter. First make sure there is no end play
in the ejector shaft; if there is not, or if tak-
ing it up produces no improvement, probably
the small gears are worn. Turn the mechanism
over by hand and examine the gears on
their flattened sides as they come into
view 7. If there is more than one-sixteenth of an
inch of w.ear they need replacement. See that
the large gear fits snugly against the small
ones when replaced, and always turn over by
hand a few times after completing the ad-
justments. Tying a piece of cord to the
tip release in front of the machine, so that
a pull from the driver's seat causes the
sheaf to be ejected, saves many a stop when
working in tangled crops.
“Bullswool”: Last year I paid Is. 9d. a
pound for Brussels sprouts—it came from
Victoria. Sprouts will thrive anywhere where
it's cold, and there is nearly always a good
Sydney market. Culture is just the same as
for cabbages; they mature quickly, are
heavy croppers and pack well in bags.
“Minthall” : Now’s the time —in N.S.W., at
all events —to get the land ready for swedes.
Many leave it too late and sow in dirty
land. Swedes store well (pitted or in a dark
shed), are fattening for pigs, and when
sliced are a good diet, in moderation, for the
milkers; they w 7 ill also keep sheep going
at a pinch. Seed costs about 2s. 9d. a
pound ; 21b. or 31b. per acre is ample*
“Sheepo”: Cotted or matted fleeces are
mostly confined to English breeds, but in
cases merinos and intermediate types between
them and strong-quality woolled sheep are
seen with these undesirable coverings.
Matted fleeces have to be treated in a
manner that makes the wool unsuitable
for anything but the lowest type of fabrics;
so matted wool is practically neglected at
the sales. As a rule, fleeces become matted
because the yoke rising from the sheep’s
body is insufficient for uniform oiling of
the fibres; the latter become more or less
“dead.” Drought conditions can do the mis-
chief ; so also can a season of excessive wet.
Sheep in low condition which do not become
properly dry have more or less matted fleeces.
Healthy well-bred sheep are seldom troubled.
As the ailment is not hereditary, care should
be taken to help the flock to combat the
outward causes. As a safeguard, it is advis-
able before shearing to draft out sheep that
have matted wool and get rid of them
somehow. They are only a liability.
“Syce”: “Booraby’s” notion that the
staunchness of show prize-winners, three
years and over, should be proved is excellent;
but in the absence of such tests show-ring
awards and sale-ring prices are a pretty
true guide. A horse has to be well built, and
balanced in proportion to be a consistent
puller. So many stallions get a full list
just on the strength of their pulling ability,
while only too often their conformation is
faulty. Their stock are generally good
pullers, but unless the sire is of better type
than the mares breeding to him it means
that the foals, as a whole, will be degenerat-
ing. You have only to go through many of
our country districts to see how evident that
factor is. Where well-bred sires and really
good types of mares are used you can almost
bank on 100 per cent, of good staunch
pullers, provided they are broken in by a
true horseman. It is a delight to break in
a well-bred and well-balanced horse; they
usually learn their work so quickly without
knocking themselves or you about, and their
build enables them to do a maximum of work
with a minimum of effort.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Laborer (40), married, Sydney, wants any kind of
work in city or suburbs, or as watchman. Employed
last place 14 years.—779s.
Two young Irishmen want situations, together or
otherwise, on station or farm. Exp.—77B2.
Married man (30), N.S.W., 10 years’ .exp. sheep
and agriculture, also clerical exp., wants position
anywhere. Refs. —7738.
Mechanic and fitter (N.S.W.), accustomed to
Model A Fords, seeks position.—77l7.
Country girl (18), N.S.W., seeks position as light
general or mother’s help, in Sydney.—769s.
To buy Part VIII, “The Concise Universal Ency-
clopaedia.”—77ss.
To exchange three months’ issues of English
“Punch,” first number dated 4/11/’3l, for any other
first-class periodical or for books by Dickens, Scott,
or other classic writers. —7754.
To buy interior and exterior scenes for medium-
sized stage.—77oo.
Whereabouts of Robert Mateer or McAteer, born
Belfast, Ireland, who left home while between 14
and 16.—7798.
Information Sought.
What country is credited with, the fastest
train sliced? Has the Canadian record,
made last April, been rivalied ?. —-7704.
A new world’s record was established by
the Great Western Railway, England, on
Sept. 14, 1931, when the “Cheltenham Flier”
was accelerated to cover the 77J miles from
Swindon to Paddington in 67 minutes, an
average speed of 69.2 m.p.h. Britain thereby
regained the lead which it held from the
summer of 1929 to last April, when a
Canadian Pacific train, over the run from
Smith’s Falls to Montreal West, 124 miles,
performed in 108 minutes, raised the world’s
record to 68.9 m.p.h.
Symptoms of infantile paralysis? —77o3.
First symptoms are usually (but not
invariably) feverishness, vomiting, loss of
appetite, drowsiness, irritability, twitching,
pains in the head, back or limbs, and stiff-
ness in the neck or back. Paralysis of the
muscles is generally preceded by weakness.
A feature of the disease is a temporary re-
covery, which may last a few hours or days,
and be followed by a reappearance of pains,
stiffness arid paralysis.
I wish to convert a 21 ft. restricted-class
boat into a cruiser. What is the most, suit-
able method of reconstruction?- —7707.
Remove the present deck, leaving thwart
intact, and raise the sides forward of the
thwart lOin. or 12in. Take out the centre-
board and case and deepen the keel. The
lead ballast can be used for the ke.el. If
you have the drawings of the boat, take
them to a boat-designer and get his advice
on the profile of the keel. The second
suit is the best rig for ordinary cruising.
How are Justices of the Peace appointed
in Queensland? What qualifications must
they possess, and what are their duties ? —
7455.
They are appointed by the Governor in
Council under the Justices Acts. Recom-
mendations are usually made by the local
member of Parliament. Any person of
good character and education is eligible
for appointment. The duties of Justices
of the Peace are, in the larger towns where
police magistrates are stationed, confined to
the witnessing of signatures and similar
functions. In smaller towns they are called
upon to sit on the Bench and adjudicate in
minor matters only, the more important
cases being reserved for a visiting police
magistrate.
(1) Why was Martin Cash transported?
(2) Was he sent to Tas. direct? (3) Who
were his bushranging companions? (4)
What territory did, they range? (5) llis
ultimate fate? —7712.
(1) For trying to murder his rival in a
love affair. (2) No, he settled there after
serving his sentence in N.S.W. (3) Kava-
nagli and Jones. (4) Southward to the
Derwent, northward to the Macquarie and
westward to Lake Echo, with headquarters
on the Dromedary, north of New Norfolk.
(5) He was arrested in 1843 and sentenced
to death. Reprieved after 15 months of
suspense, he was sent to Norfolk Island.
Good conduct won him a pardon, and he
returned to Tas. in 1853, becoming care-
taker of Hobart Botanical Gardens. He
died in 1877.
Is it a fact that during the war no one
could patent an invention outside the Com-
monwealth without the permission of the
Government? If so, what were the reasons
for the regulation? —772l.
Yes. Under the War Precautions
(Patents) Act 1916 persons who intended
to apply for a patent outside the Com-
monwealth had to give notice to the Com-
missioner of Patents, who then referred the
notice to the Patents Inquiry Board. If the
board was of the opinion that the invention
was one' which would assist the enemy, or
that its publication outside would be detri-
mental to the interests of the Commonwealth,
the applicant was directed not to publish
or communicate his invention.
(1) Did any Australian wireless men serve
in Mesopotamia during the war? (2) Did
any Australians serve in Russia? (3) How
many Australians served under General
Dunsterville in Caucasia, and what teas the
result of Dunsterville’s expedition ? —7724.
(1) Yes, an Australian wireless Signal
squadron (120 officers and other ranks)
joined the British force in Mesopotamia at
the end of 1916, and served with it until the
end. (2) -A small party of selected Aus-
tralian officers and ..men from France joined
the British North Russian Expeditionary
Force for the defence of Archangel and the
Murman coast in July, 1918. (3) Eighteen
officers and 20 sergeants joined the British
force detailed for operations near the Cas-
pian Sea. During August and part or feep-
tember, 1918, Dunsterville’s force defended
Baku against strong Turkish attacks the
object of the expedition to Baku was to save
the oil wells—but finally was forced to with-
draw owing to lack of expected aid from
the local populace. Dunsterville’s operations,
however, saved northern Persia from a
threatened Turkish invasion.
What is the estimated age of the earth,
and by what method is it 'cateulated i —772 d.
Between 1,5(X),000,000 and 3,000,000,000
years. It is deduced astronomically from the
eccentricity of Mercury’s orbit and the tidal
theory of the origin of the moon; geologi-
cally, by various methods, and, since the dis-
covery of radio-activity, from the ratio _of
the quantities of lead and of radio-active
elements in rocks due to the transmutation
of uranium.
Proper method of cultivating bouvardias?
—' 7702. ... „ , . ,
Plant in a sunny situation, m well-drained
rich soil. The ground round the roots should
be mulched with well-rotted manure, and
the plants should be given a soaking of
water at the roots every week and a spray-
ing every day or two in the dry season.
Best time for planting is early summer
When well established, give them an appli-
cation of weak liquid manure every week
or so. The growths can be trained with
stakes or wire hoops to make a wide bush,
every shoot of which will be open to the
light. In winter cut down to the ground;
where severe frosts are experienced the
plants should be given, a heavy mulching of
manure round the base. It may be safer
to lift the roots and winter them under a
frame or in a greenhouse.
(1) Is the greatest ocean depth greater
than the greatest land height? (2) Is the
cubic volume of, land above sea level greater
than that of the ocean? —7722.
(1) Yes, the greatest known ocean depth
(in the Pacific, off Mindanao) is 32,089 ft.
The greatest land height (Mt. Everest) is
29,141 ft. (2) No. The water area is over
twice as large as the land area, and the
mean depth of the ocean floor exceeds 12,000
feet, while the mean height of the surface
of the land area above sea level is only
2300 ft.
Is there any law regulating the admission
into the Commonwealth of workers brought
under contract? —7708.
Yes; the Contract Immigrants Act 1905.
Such contracts must be made by or on behalf
of an Australian resident. They are subject
to Ministerial approval, which may be with-
held if the fulfilment of the contract is
likely to affect an industrial dispute or the
conditions or standards prevailing in local
industry. Except in the cases of contract
migrants who are British subjects, born in
the United Kingdom or descended from a
British subject there born, it must be shown
that there is difficulty in obtaining workers
of equal skill and ability within the Com-
monwealth. The Act does not apply to
domestic servants and personal attendants
accompanying their employers.
What is the law regarding the conducting
of an employment bureau in Sydney? —77o6.
The proprietor must be licensed, and is re-
quired to keep a record of persons dealt with
and engagements made; the fees chargeable
are fixed by regulation, and if an applicant
does not obtain labor or employment within
14 days fee must be refunded, less out-
of-pocket expenses. Licensees are prohibited
from sharing fees with employers, and from
keeping as lodgers persons seeking employ-
ment.
What procedure was adopted to select the
body of the Unknown Soldier? —7711.
Near Ypres, Arras, Cambrai, on the
Marne and “in two other salients” six unre-
cognisable bodies of soldiers of the King
were disinterred by an impartial commis-
sion, placed in six coffins, all exactly alike,
and removed to a soldiers’ hut. All con-
cerned then retired to a distance. Lastly “a
British officer of very high rank” was blind-
folded and led into the hut, which he had
not previously entered. Groping about he
finally touched one of the coffins, which was
buried in Westminster Abbey.
In how many cases was the death sentence
carried out in the British Army during the
World War, and for what offences? —7710.
Mutiny, 3 men ; cowardice, 18 men ; deser-
tion, 2 officers and 264 men; murder, 1
officer and 36 men ; striking or violence, 6
men ; disobedience, 5 men ; sleeping on post,
2 men ; quitting post, 7 men ; casting away
arms, 2 men ; total, 3 officers and 343 men.
I have a small two-valve battery-operated
receiver which gives loud head-phone recep-
tion. How should I connect two pairs and
four pairs of ’phones for best results? —
7715.
For receiving with two pairs of head-
phones, connect one ’phone-tip of the pair
A to one receiver ’phone terminal and one
’phone-tip of the pair B to the remaining
receiver ’phone terminal. The remaining two
tips belonging to the pairs A and B are then
joined together. For receiving with four
pairs of ’phones, leave the pairs A and B
connected as indicated and connect the pairs
C and D in a similar manner: ,that is. one
tip of the pair C to one receiver terminal
and one tip of the pair D to the other
receiver terminal, then joining the remain-
ing two tips of C and D together. The
resistance of all four pairs of ’phones must
be of the same value, and if the tips are
marked positive and negative, the positive
tip? : must be connected to that terminal
joined to the “B” battery and the negative
tips to that terminal connected to the plate
of the valve.
Why do these electrical hooks say that
current flows from the positive to the nega-
tive terminal, whereas in wireless _we arc
told, that the electrons, which constitute the
flow of current, flow from the filament,
which is negative, to the plate, which is
positive? —7696. . .
In the early days of electricity the cur-
rent was considered as flowing from positive
to negative. Later it was discovered that
the electrons liberated from the heated fila-
ment of a valve were attracted to the posi-
tive plate.
(1) Why is not Australia represented
abroad by ambassadors as Canada is m the
U.S.A. and elsewhere? (2) Why was a
Canadian ambassador appointed to Washing-
ton? (3) Is it likely that Australia will
appoint its own ambassadors abroad“. ( <O9.
(1) Principally because the volume and
importance of Australian diplomatic matters
are not great enough in any outside country
to warrant such representation. (2) the
countries interchange a great deal of
and there are many important matters which
a Canadian Minister can deal with more
directly and satisfactorily than the Bntisn
Ambassador can. (3) Can’t say. There is
power under the Federal Constitution to
make such appointments should it be deemed
necessary.
I have a negative which is very much over-
exposed and gives a flat print with a little
contrast. How can I treat it so as to obtain
a more brilliant print? —7746.
Thoroughly wash the negative and bleach
in a 5 p.c. solution of mercury chloride.
Wash and intensify in a 5 p.c. solution of
soda carb. Wash again and reduce in a 5 p.c.
solution of ferricyanide. Be careful not to
carry reduction too far.
Is there any truth in the yarn about the
early Australian settler who brought soil
front Ireland to banish snakes. Where is
the incident recorded? —7728.
The “Journal” of the Royal Australian
Historical Society, Vol. 3, pages 507-530,
relates that Sir Henry Browne Hayes, an
Irishman who was transported to Australia
in 1801 for abduction, resided on ticket-of-
leave at the Vaucluse estate, Sydney. He
attempted to banish snakes from the neighbor-
hood of his home by surrounding the house
with turf from Ireland. The bill of lading
for the imported soil was in existence late
in the last century.
(1) What variety of mosquito is a carrier
of yellow fever and is it to be found in Aus-
tralia? Does it convey any other diseases?
(2) How can mosquitoes be kept down in a
district? (3) Are there any which
live on the larvw of the mosquito ? —7734.
(1) Yellow fever is conveyed by the mos-
quito Stegomyia fasciata, common through-
out eastern Queensland during the summer.
Owing to quarantine measures this mosquito
has never been infected from abroad with
yellow fever, but it has become infected with
the virus of dengue fever, and is responsible
for a large number of human cases of this
disease in the northern part of Australia.
(2) The pest may be minimised by cover-
ing the pools in which the larvae breed with
a thin film of kerosene, or by dosing the
pools with a very small amount of copper
sulphate, which destroys their food. The
surest preventive, of course, is to fill up the
pools and do away with all patches of stag-
nant water. (3) Yes, notably the blue-eye,
freshwater sunfish, carp gudgeon and fire-
tailed gudgeon.
(1) Is there any truth in reports that
quarrymen and others ha ve unearthed live
toads and frogs in holes far below the
earth’s surfacet (2) What is the difference
between toads and, frogs? —7744.
(1) Some of these stories may have a
basis of fact, as certain species have a
habit of creeping along crevices or down
holes and burrowing for a short distance. It
has been proved by experiment that toads
will live for over a year when sealed up in
a block of limestone; when left for two
years they were found to be dead. (2) The
typical frog is smooth-skinned, slender-
bodied and long-legged; the toad is charac-
teristically clumsy, with short legs and a
waTty and usually dark-colored skin. The
variations in different families are so great,
however, that distinctions cannot always be
made. Certain relatives of the typical frogs
are very toad-like, and some snecies of so-
called toad families outwardly resemble
frogs.
What are goatflsh? —7726.
Another name for red mullet. They belong
to the family Mullidw. and have two fleshy
barbels beneath the chin, which have been
likened to a goat’s beard; these serve as
tactile organs, and the young fish may be
observed round wharf piles with these mem-
bers extended forward, feeling among the
marine growths. All the family is richly
colored with brilliant reds and yellows, and
with blue streaks and spots which scintillate
as the fish struggles in its death-throes. It
was fashionable among the Romans to have
the fish brought alive into the dining-hall, so
that guests could feast their eyes upon its
gorgeous and changing hues during the dying
agonies. Several species inhabit Australian
waters.
Are there any kestrels in Australia?'
What are their habits? —7727.
The Nankeen kestrel ( Cerchneis cen-
chroides) is the commonest of all hawks
throughout Australia and Tasmania. It is
often, and wrongly, called “sparrow-hawk,”
but it belongs to a very different species.
Its food consists almost entirely of mice,
lizards and large insects; while watching
for them it hangs poised and stationary in
the air, with rapidly-beating wings. In
power of hovering it is surpassed only by
the tiny humming-birds of America.
Information Supplied.
Words of the poem “ Shellin’ Peas,” by C.
H. Souter? —7558.
Dr. Souter writes: This frequently-
repeated question has got me beaten. I
have searched my old MSS. and cuttings
and the three book collections ot my stuff,
and also cross-questioned my wife (who
knows about most of the blameworthy things
I have done), and can find no trace of them.
But I have, been asked about them so often
that in sheer self-defence I fear I shall have
to write them.
Brief Answers.
0.5.: Amber is worth 30s. to £2O per
ounce. None is found in Australia. The golden, or
transparent, sort comes from China, and the cloudy,
or opaque, from Austria. All amber imported into
Australia is in the finished state. .. .C.J.N.: Consult
a vet. or communicate with the Chief Veterinary
Surgeon, Department of Agriculture, Sydney, stating
whether the lameness becomes less severe on exercise
or vice versa. Also whether the mare flinches on
manipulation of the area... .H.H.: (1) Rabbit-skins
should be stretched from belly to back, not from
side to side; diagram posted. (2) It is not
necessary to class skins. This is done by the selling
brokers in Sydney... .L.D.: (1) Usually the order
provides for the money to be paid into court. You
can collect it yourself, or may give an order to
your solicitor to collect, in which case he might
make a small charge for collection. (2) Not neces-
sary, but it would save you some trouble. Consult
Prothonotary or Taxing Master, Supreme Court. (3)
Not aware of any increase in fees... .L.H.P.: Write
E. Dunenil, P.0.-place, Melbourne. \V. D. and
H. O. Wills, Melbourne, will supply information re
duties. .. .E.K.P.: A full account of the Doyle
Dahlke case appears in “Studies in Australian
Crime” (second series), by J. D. Fitzgerald, Corn-
stalk Publishing Co., Sydney E.K.: Under the
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act, 1931 if proceedings
are taken in court in respect of any matter arising
out of a hire-purchase transaction, the Court may
relieve the lessee from payment of any sum in excess
of what the Court deems fairly payable. Where
the amount involved does not exceed £lOO, a
stipendiary or police magistrate may deal with
the matter. .. .R.V.: (1) From Anthony Horderns,
Sydney. (2) From William Brooks, Ltd., Sydney. .. .
Materwell: Apparently the mortgagor is confusing
his case with that of a present repayment of the,
principal sum where a mortgagor is unable to pay.
The N.S.W. Moratorium Act extends the time for
repayment (where the principal sum or unpaid part
does not exceed £3000) at the rate provided in
the mortgage, or 5 p.c. p.a., whichever is the less.
This would apply to him in Dec., 1931. He is
however, entitled to a reduction of 4s. 6d. in the
pound on the 8 per cent, interest under the Interest
Reduction Act W.S.: (1) Sandahvood has been
exported from S.A. only since about 1926. (2) Get
in touch with the Conservator of Forests, W.A.
Sandalwood has been exported from that State, for
upwards of 50 years. (3) The position in regard to the
control and export of sandalwood from S.A. is
explained in the annual report of the Lands Depart-
ment. .. .Johnston (Brisbane): Information too tech-
nical for our pages. Will post it to you if you will
furnish full name and address... .L. 0.: Candidates
meet all expenses in connection with their candida-
ture. . .G.F.S.: (1) Apparently. (2) Yes. (3) “Station
Book-keeping,” by Vigers, Anthony Horderns
E.K.: Take 40 parts by weight dry slaked lime, and
10 parts finely powdered alum. Mix well together
and pass several times through a sieve. , Mix with an
equal quantity of white of egg, and apply thinly
to the broken parts. . . .li.D.: Write Charcoal Traction
Engineers, 118 Toorak-road, South Yarra, Melbourne.
M.L.: The cos. decline to divulge the informa-
tion .... J. J.C.: Get in touch with P. W. Small-
field, Fields Superintendent, Agriculture Dept., Auck-
land (N.Z.) W.G.C,: (1) You are qualified to
join the Royal Art Society. (2) All mediums. (3)
Four terms a year. (4) £1 11s. 6d. per term of
10 weeks.... J.H.: lit is worth 10s L.E.8.:
Write Whitcombe and Tombs, Wellington (N.Z.)....
G.A.: J. V. Shannon, Rodney Downs, via Ilfracombe,
Q’land D.L.: Write Dept, of Taxation, Sydney.
W.C.B.: In either case the policy is protected
against creditors, except to the extent of two years’
premiums paid prior to the death... . A.C.S.: The
calendar year consists of 365 days, but a year, not
being the last of a century, the date of which is
divisible by four without remainder, is called Leap
Year and consists of 366 days. The last year of a
century is not leap year unless it is divisible by
400 H-A.W.: (1) Angus and Robertson. (2)
Very few. .. . J.G.M.: Not at present. .. .W.S.: The
postage currency stamps were issued during a general
shortage of currency at the time, in several values.
At present they have very little value and do not
come under the head of stamps as usually defined
by philatelists... .C.M.: The law won’t allow us to
te11.... Sim: You are entitled to the reduction of
224 per cent, as from October 9 last. The Act is
not retrospective save as to the basis upon which
the reduction shall be made. .. . A.H.M.: The reduc-
tion should be made as from October 9 last, the date
of the commencement of the Act....T.F.: Write
W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney.
. ...M.C.: By application to the steamship cos. em-
ploying them. ... D.W.: From Angus and Coote, 496
George-street, Sydney D.R.G.: You could ask him
£2 for it. . . .R.G.: We know of no proposed Govern-
ment expedition to Centralia. .. .T. 8.: Get in touch
with Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney... .A.L.Y.: Query
is too indefinite. A large book could be written on the
training of dogs. .. .W.A.K.: The natural diet of any
dog, particularly an Alsatian, is raw meat. Flaky, dis-
colored teeth denote that the dog has had distemper.
There is no remedy ... . C.M.E.: In tablets for cheese-
making, ss. 3d. a bottle, or as essence, Is. a bottle,
from Anthony Horderns, Sydney... .G.C.C.: (1) No
—except in the case of a few special issues. (2)
If in mint condition, from 7s. 6d. to 10s. according
to date and edge inscription, etc. If not in mint
condition, face value... .F.H.C.: Obtainable from
Elliotts and Australian Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-
street, Sydney. Price, 71b. tins, Bs. ; 141 b. tins,
145.281 b. tins, 24s W.H.S.: “A Textbook of
Ore Dressing,” by Robert H. Richards, Barker’s
Bookstores, Adelaide-street, Brisbane, about 25s
A.D.: All the leading correspondence colleges teach
shorthand. It is a satisfactory way of learning if
you are unable to attend classes. .. .C.S.D.: the
population of N.S.W. at September 30, 1931, was
2,514,529 W.E.D.: Write Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, York-street, Sydney... .J.A.S.: “The Modern
Ballroom Dance Instructor” (Bd.), Angus and
Robertson E.H.M.: The order of the Federal
Arbitration Court rescinding the 10 per cent,
cut with respect to certain employees of the
C. S. R. Co. was made as from December 22, 1931,
and is not retrospective... .8.5.: All are Abo. words.
Gulomogo means stony ground; Mogolong, yellow
box-tree; Piailaway, cracked mussel shell; and
Womba, place of tallow-wood trees... .T.A.: Write
C. J. Laseron, 19 Castlereagh-street, or Lyster
Ormsby, Leigh House, Castlereagh-street, Sydney
A.W.: The N.S.W. Moratorium Act does not apply to
any mortgage to secure the repayment of a loan to one
of its members by a building society registered
under or included in the Second Schedule to the
Co-operation Acts 1923-29 L.J.C.: You appear to
b e entitled to the reduction A.N.: No reason why
you should not have reduction made at once...F.F.:
Long-beaked dolphins of the genus Sotalia are known
to occur on the Australian coast, but little is known
of their mode of life save that they frequent
estuaries M.F.: The remark was a very improper
one. If you knew the J.P. was personally interested
you could have lawfully objected to him dealing
with the case T.S.: As a creditor in the estate
you should have sent in a claim when your aunt died.
Ask the Probate Department, Supreme Court House,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, what has been done about
the debts of the estate.... (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
by
Mrs. Drevke-Brockman.
CHAPTER I.
Wherein a crisis in the matrimonial
affairs of John Fordyce is precipitated
by a chance meeting with Mr. John
Collins; and the astounding duplicity
of that gentleman displayed to the
people of Western Australia.
HAD the front door of John Fordyce’s
town house been a solid, decent
affair of ja.rrah, or made from im-
ported English oak like those up at the
Jacksons’, he would have slammed it be-
hind him. Alas, it was but an abomination
of glass panes, opening from drawing-room
on to the verandah in a manner much
favored for colonial bungalows—poor stuff
to aid the master of the house in any
gesture of defiance. So he left it open.
And all the way down the short path, out
into the road itself, the voice of his wife,
Euphemia, flowed after him; and with
every step he took the lively twinkle lurk-
ing in his blue eyes faded and his mouth
grew sullen.
Euphemia. was having hysterics. He
imagined he could still , catch the echo of
her cries as far down as the corner. It
was as yet early; in the morning; few folks
were abroad in . the streets of Perth, and,
although in those'days a man scarcely ever
walked along the Terrace, or any other
street for the matter of that, without greet-
ing every second passer-by, Fordyce strode
ungraciously past several of his most inti-
mate acquaintances.
“What’s the matter • with Handsome
Jack?” they asked each other. A smile, a
shrug, perhaps the murmur of. his wife’s
name. “Poor chap! But she’s a damned
good-looking woman, all the same.”
Fordyce walked as though unconscious of
their existence; 'yet the whole time he
w'ondered disconsolately if they; too, could
hear that mortifying echo. What madness
not to shut the door behind him, however
angry he might be! That was the worst
feature of the business; the entire town
knew, and, he had reason to believe, pitied
him—pitied Jack Fordyce because of his
wife! God knew he deserved pity enough,
but such wholesale sympathy was intoler-
able.
Flow he had hoped this move to town
would satisfy Euphemia’s craving for
society. But after a year mooning about
Perth, wasting his time in a paltry office
job whilst a manager mismanaged the old
place in the sou’-west, John Fordyce came
to the bitter conclusion that she was more
disgruntled than ever. Take this morning,
now—there she lay, fanning herself, groan-
ing, wailing, working herself into another
of her hysterical rages because, forsooth, he
had scolded her about bills from Mr. Goff’s
softgoods emporium. Assuredly things could
not be allowed to continue thus—yet what
was a man to do?
John ran up wooden steps into his one-
roomed office, where he sat down only long
enough to scribble a sentence upon a loose
sheet of paper. He stalked off then, a
scowl still darkening his tanned face, whilst
a notice pinned to the closed door informed
all callers that Mr. John Fordyce had gone
to Fremantle and would not be back that
day. Any excuse to get away! He had
bethought himself of a trifling matter of
business which could well have waited. But
this morning the houses and shops and
public buildings dotted about to form the
town of Perth hemmed him in. Even-this
embryonic civilisation of fifty years’ stand-
ing seemed to hedge him round with con-
vention, to remind him overmuch of
Euphemia’s restricting hand and her pas-
sionate craving for a really genteel
existence. He felt a drive through the
bush to the Port might help him review
the unpleasant situation and possibly clear
the air.
He hired a horse and trap, thinking, as
he climbed into the conveyance, of his
wife’s fretful and. constant reminders that
persons in their situation should keep their
own carriage. He bowled down Hay-street
at a smart pace; the bay horse proved a
brisk mover, and John, flicking his whip
with a flourish, felt some of his depression
roll away.
“Hey, Mr. Fordyce!”
John drew rein; turned round to behold
a tall man hastening towards his turnout
with as much speed as compatible with a
carefully preserved dignity. There clung
an air of elegance to the gentleman which
proclaimed him at least a newcomer, if not
an entire stranger to the colony.
“Hello, Mr. Collins!” greeted Fordyce.
“Well met, sir!”
Note. —With the exception of Government Officials,
Mr. John Collins, and the American, Roberts, the
characters in this tale are entirely fictitious.
“The groom at the stables just told me
you are bound for the Port. Might I
trouble you to give me a lift?”
“Only too pleased, my dear fellow! Get
in. Where have you been, and why did you
not call on us as you promised to do? All
I have heard of you is that you caused a
considerable flutter in the dovecotes at
Fremantle. My wife has been most anxious
to meet you.”
“That is extremely charming” began
Mr. Collins as he carefully lifted his
trousers.
“Not at all!” cut in John brusquely, put
out by his every thought of Euphemia.
“I’m damned glad you didn’t call, after
all. The sight of you in your London
finery would only let me in for another
nagging.”
Not for worlds would John Fordyce have
unburdened his soul to any of his colonial
friends; but, encountering Mr. Collins on
this bright morning in April, that gentle-
man so calm and unruffled, so well groomed
and assured, his tongue led him astray.
The two men had met the year before in
Melbourne; John Fordyce happening to
be in that city over a matter of stud stock.
They had been fellow-passengers on the
steamer Georgette, only to part company
at Albany, John Collins taking the mail-
coach to Perth, whilst John Fordyce
travelled his stock overland.
The West Australian had been immensely
attracted by the newcomer, by his fine fair
features and Old Country manners. Fordyce
did his best to cultivate the other’s society;
but, although Mr. Collins at all times dis-
played the utmost courtesy, appearing in
no way adverse to conversation or a game
of whist, when at length the Georgette
dropped anchor in the Inner Harbor, he
was none the wiser as to the stranger’s
business or intentions. Mr. Collins re-
mained on that score , remarkably silent and
vague, whereas in nine cases out of ten a
man was regaled at once with the why and
wherefore of any visitor’s purpose in the
colony.
John Fordyce came home to a wife more
rebellious than ever. He had counted much
on this move to the capital, determined to
make a last bid for the happiness which
had appeared so surely within his grasp
when he had married Euphemia Fell. Miss
Fell had come out to the colony on a visit
to relations—had come with delicious
dreams of marrying a squatter, of blossom-
ing into a great lady. Her bright eyes,
the ladylike flirtatiousness of her manner,
combined with' her exquisite poise, had
rapidly brought the suitors she desired. Her
choice fell on “Handsome Jack” Fordyce.
She admired ' immensely his dashing air;
the clean-shaven face he affected in a hairy
generation, growing no more than side-
whiskers , closely cut,, setting off to perfec-
tion a pair of bright blue eyes. Moreover,
he belonged to one of the “six families”
and owned an enormous tract of land in the
Eastern districts.
Alas for Euphemia’s dream! In time, no
doubt, her husband’s properties would be
worth a mint of money; but of what use
would that be to her when her beauty had
been faded by toil and she no longer cared
for either gowns or society? She made no
attempt to hide her chagrin at the hard-
ships of a colonial existence, or to veil her
disappointment in the, genteel poverty of
the social life of the colony in the ’seven-
ties. She browbeat her husband unmerci-
fully, yet flew into hysterics or swooned
with the most devastating elegance when-
ever the unfortunate man offered the
slightest remonstrance.
The bay horse trotted. down a sandy
road through miles of virgin bush, passing
no more than an occasional- clearing where-
in stood a shanty of wood and iron. Nor
did they meet'much traffic, since most folks
preferred to reach the Port by sailing down
the river. A horseman or two, three or
four bullock-waggons hauling goods to
town, stirred up the dust and forced Mr.
Collins to flick his clothing with an immacu-
late handkerchief. But long before they
caught a glimpse of sapphire through the
trees and beyond the dunes—that inimit-
able sapphire of the Indian Ocean on a clear
day—he was fully acquainted with the
gloomy state of the Fordyce menage. He
looked sideways at the man driving, and
thought him too good material to be tied
to the petticoats of such an aggravating
female. ‘
“Why,” he suggested idly, “do you not
leave the lady for a while?”
“I have, thought of it,” confessed John.
“But”
“Myself, I am a great believer in personal
freedom,” went on Mr. Collins in his smooth
tones.
“Freedom!” said John between his teeth,
jerking the reins so savagely that the horse
tossed its head in protest. “Gad, I’ve not
had any for years! That’s the worst of
matrimony—a man runs into chains before
he knows it.”
They were over the humpbacked bridge
across the Swan River by then; on the
road ahead a gang of convicts napped
stones, fettered together as they worked.
“Just like the lags over there,” nodded
Collins pleasantly. “They might like to be
free also!”
“No doubt they would, but they are
getting no more than they deserve,” retorted
John, voicing the common opinion of his
day. “The case is scarcely analogous.”
“I do not agree, Mr. Fordyce,” replied
Collins, with more > warmth in his voice
than John had yet heard, a warmth he later
remembered, although at the time his
mind was too busy toying with this idea
of freedom to give it heed. “Depends on
what brought them there—right and wrong
is often no more than a matter of personal
opinion.”
“Possibly—possibly,” murmured the other
absently. “Right and wrong, eh? Deuced
hard to tell sometimes. Where may I set
you down, Mr. Collins? I am on my way
to visit a man in High-street.”
“That is quite convenient—l am staying
at the Emerald Isle Hotel. A most excel-
lent lodging, my dear Fordyce; let me re-
commend it if ever you do make a break,”
added Collins impishly.
John’s seriousness dispersed before a grin.
“You may see me yet. Pat Moloney is a
very old acquaintance of mine. Did you
notice that little schooner lying in the
mouth of the river? She caught my eye—
I’m fond of ships, Mr. Collins.”
On a Saturday evening some ten days
later Mr. Collins sat on a sea-chest in the
bar of the Emerald Isle Hotel and read
the latest copy of the “Inquirer.” The news
sheet occupied him entirely; he took no
heed of the rowdy crowd surging through
the room. He read in the leisurely manner
of a man unaccustomed to the stress and
hurry of life. Amidst a motley collection
of pensioners—old soldiers sent out to
guard the infant colony—merchants and
sailors, jostling and calling for drink, he
looked, in his well-cut broadcloth coat and
buff waistcoat, like the idle man of means
he purported to be, travelling for the sake
of amusement. He folded the paper and
was about to rise, when his attention was
arrested by a name on the front sheet.
Sandwiched in between an announcement
of rings and brooches and gentlemen’s
gold watches to be viewed at the premises
of Messrs. Tone and Style, and an inti-
mation to the customers of Mr. Goff
regarding the arrival of a choice consign-
ment of soft goods ex the barque Letty
Gales, direct from London, a notice in
heavy type caught the eye of Mr. Collins.
“I hereby give notice” he read, “that
I will not be answerable for any further
debts contracted by my wife, Euphemia
Fordyce (she having in the past contracted
same without my approval). Signed: John
F. Fordyce. Perth. April 12, 1876.”'
A smile creased the reader’s serene
features. Had his casual words indeed
borne fruit—or was this merely a show of
authority on the part of Mr. Fordyce?
As though in answer to his thoughts,
John Fordyce strode into the hotel. He
spied Collins immediately and crossed to
his side.
“I see you are reading the paper,” he
said with a self-conscious grin. “Did you
happen to notice my name figuring in
large type?”
“I did—this very moment.”
John laughed aloud then, with something
of the merriment of a boy. “Amusing
is it not?”
Collins raised his eyebrows. “The lady
will scarcely think so.”
“She will probably have a fit of hys-
terics,” averred her husband. “But so long
as I am not there to be sent running for
condiments I don’t care—let her have ’em
to her heart’s content! I’m finished with
her fads, Mr. Collins, sick of her extrava-
gance! I no sooner returned home on the
day I met you than she began whimpering
afresh. Not a presentable gown in the
colony, or a soul genteel enough to satisfy
her ladyship’s fashionable taste—and so
on enough to drive a man demented.
Your talk of freedom was no more and no
less than a lighted match to a fuse—Mrs.
Fordyce may blame you, sir, for the
departure of a harassed husband. Let her
go baek to London, say I, if she can’t put
UP with colonial life.” He laughed again,
glancing eagerly round the smoke-dim
room, and gave < a jerk ■ of his shoulders
as though bracing his body to meet the
future. “Gad, it is good to be free!”
“What have you done?” inquired Collins
curiously. “Have you really deserted?”
“Call it what you like—l have sold the
place, settled an allowance on Euphemia
and bought that boat to which I drew vour
attention.”
“The devil you have! No time lost, I
must say. May I inquire what you mean
to do?”
“I am going north,” replied John
exultmgly. "Many’s the time I’ve longed
to go since Padbury sailed out into th 6
blue ten years ago. He went to take up
grazing land, but they tell me the pearling
is good. So damn the ladies, say I.
Give me the sea and a roving life for a
change! Come, let’s find Pat Moloney
and drink to liberty and the Great Nor’-
West! After all, you are responsible, Mr
Collins!”
“Hear, hear!” replied that gentleman,
rising with great dignity.
John elbowed his way to the bar, the
tall stranger following, and called for the
publican.
“A bottle of your best champagne,
Moloney,” he cried. As the man hurried
to bring drink, Fordyce dilated on the excel-
lence of the craft he had bought and the
crew already signed on. He had not let the
grass grow beneath his feet once he had
made up his mind, so eager was he to taste
to the full the liberty he craved. “You’re
a long time with that wine,” he called
impatiently.
“Coming, sir, coming!”
“Now, Mr. Collins, none of your ladylike
drinks to-night! Moloney keeps good wine.
I can’t have you imbibing that concoction
you have taught him to brew for you!
‘Have a John Collins,’ he said to me when
I was here during the week. But there was
no x kick in it, my dear fellow; to-night you
must have a John Fordyce! Fill up your
own glass, Moloney, and wish me a boatful
of pearls!”
“With pleasure I will, sir! That Sea
Sprite you have bought is as trim a little
schooner as ever anchored in the Roads.
And a credit to your good judgment, sir,
if I may say so.”
John Fordyce drained his glass and
winked at Mr. Collins. “I always did have
good judgment in boats if not in wives.”
The atmosphere reeked of rank tobacco;
two big oil-lamps shone dimly through eddies
of blue smoke, or shook on their chains at a
rousing chorus when the sailors burst into
song. A holiday spirit was abroad. To-
morrow would be Easter Sunday, so what
matter how late it grew? Yet as the
muffled, tones of the prison bell boomed an
ominous warning, a few merrymakers rose
to their feet and shuffled furtively to the
door. Ticket-of-leave men, these. For-
dyce watched them scuttle away.
“It’s a fine night, Mr. Collins,” he re-
marked suddenly. “Will you stroll down
and take t a look at the Sprite?”
The two men walked out into the clear
Australian night, a fine, well-set-up pair;
the somewhat sedate Collins, fair and dis-
tinguished-looking, making a foil for the
other man’s lively blue eyes, his dark hair
and debonair carriage.
“You look as if you ought to be an Irish-
man,” said Collins suddenly.
“Thank God I’m not! Though they’re
good fellows for a fight or a joke any day
—hard to say which they like most!”
Collins pursued the subject no further.
His eyes fastened on the walls of the
Round House silhouetted on a hill at the
end of the street. He appeared suddenly
preoccupied and jumped perceptibly as a
police patrol came up behind and a chal-
lenge rang out: “Bond or Free?”
“Free—at last!” grinned John Fordyce.
“Free, I hope,” muttered John Collins.
The police passed on, but a moment later
came back dragging a miserable ticket-of-
leave man who had failed to obey the warn-
ing of the bell and depart from the streets.
“Poor fool!” said Collins briefly. “That’s
the second time that fellow has been caught.
The cat for him, I suppose,”
“Not a bit of it,” retorted Fordyce.
“It’s my opinion they treat them too easily
—look at the way some of the convicts are
allowed to roam about in the daytime,
without a warder in sight!”
Again Collins allowed the topic to lapse.
In a few strides they passed within the
mouth of a tunnel which ran through the
hill to the jetty beyond. Framed in black-
ness, the far entrance made a picture of
luminous night. The sea swept to the star-
lit sky; the masts of ships riding at the
anchorage pricked the heavens like pikes.
The two men walked past the rough stones
of a half-finished sea-wall to the first bay,
only just completed, of the new long jetty.
Beyond rose the old town-jetty where
lighters landed goods from overseas ships,
and off to the right lay John Fordyce’s
Sea Sprite, her slim white lines just visible
in the starlight.
Collins paused, and, turning his back on
the sea, looked over the tiny straggling
village which called itself a port, right up
to the grim walls of her Majesty’s Penal
Establishment on the hill behind. “Sand, sin
and sorrow!” he murmured. “I should
think so!”
John Fordyce’s eyes were fixed on the
far horizon.
“Don’t be so gloomy,” he said absently.
“That is the worst of fizz—it always lets
man down. Just look here a moment.
D’you see those lights away out there?
They must belong to that American whaler
which has been hanging about all week,
the Lord Harry alone knows why. What’s
her name again?”
“I really couldn’t say.”


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital:. .. .1 .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. ... .. .. .. .. .. '.. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. ~ .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY’BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery Hotwe,
48. i Bourke Street. Melbourne.
K ~"'- ' -•-'v’lin • ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
Can you afford to miss
AMERICA
nr
m
m
m
m
0 s
it'mM
Right —New Orleans is rich
in the mellow charm of a
hundred years ago.
©
Bel ow Silvery cascades
abound in America's innum-
erable canyons.
AMERICA is constantly in the
xtL news! Post and Gatty ... the
world’s tallest building . . .Wall
Street . . . the Olympic games ...
Hollywood, the cinema capital... in
sports, drama, politics and industry,
America is always in the news. If you
would keep abreast of current history
you should know first hand this vast
arena of world events.
•
Travel on American Railways is at-
tended by the utmost in comfort,
convenience and keen interest. Ar-
rangements for any itinerary are
simple to make through this bureau
and without cost.
Plan your holiday to include Amer-
ica, reached on swift Matson liners
via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii, to San Francisco. A free
illustrated booklet will be gladly sent
upon request.
Giant skyscrapers frame this view
of Michigan Avenue, Chicago's
surging thoroughfare.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION BUREAU
1 2 Bridge St., Sydney ...Tel. B 7981-3
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Fordyce, turning suddenly, again described
the ghost of a smile he was later to re-
member. He went on casually: “Clouds
coming up from the north-west. Let us
hope they won’t detract from the regatta
on Monday. Will you come and see the
sights with me? Taylor hopes to win the
four-oared-gig race.”
“I am sorry, Mr. Fordyce, but I have a
previous engagement.”
John grinned with meaning. “Hired
Albert’s trap again, I suppose. Oh, I’ve
heard about your week-end jaunts. You’re
a sly dog, Mr. Collins! I’m considerably
intrigued to know who the gal may be?”
Collins laughed, observing that they had
better turn back, as the hour was growing
late.
All Sunday clouds banked in the heavens;
Easter Monday dawned grey and overcast.
The townsfolk were far too much on
pleasure bent to more than express a pass-
ing annoyance at the threatened inclemency
of the weather, warning the womenfolk to
carry adequate protection for new gowns
and bonnets.
Having decided that, lacking the con-
genial company of Mr. Collins, he would
forego the regatta, where he would run a
decided risk of being unable to avoid a
meeting with Euphemia and all the regret-
table recriminations such an encounter
might entail, John Fordyce dressed and
breakfasted at his leisure. The morning
was well advanced when he strolled out
into an almost empty street. He stood still
to light his pipe. The clatter of hooves
made him look up and he beheld a mounted
constable riding down the street, a native
police-boy close behind him.
“Good morning, Constable!” he cried.
“Not likely to find much to occupy you
to-day! You’re the only sign of life I’ve
seen this morning. I am just wondering
how to create a diversion.
The young man smiled. “Things are
bound to be quiet to-day, sir, with everyone,
more or less, gone up the river.”
Hardly had be spoken than the sharp
click of a fast-ridden horse made both
men glance down the street. A second
trooper cantered up, brandishing his crop
with excitement.
“The Fenians have gone—leastways the
two working on the sea-wall, and I stake
my oath that’ll mean the lot. Come on,
we’d better beat it to the lock-up and see
what’s doing;”
They wheeled their "mounts. “Seems to
be some fun promising after all, Mr. For-
dyce,” flung the first over his shoulder as
he made off.
CHAPTER 11.
Wherein John Fordyce joins in a
historic chase; and l Euphemia bids an
ungracious husband farewell before the
Sea Sprite sets sail for the Great Nor’-
West.
The holiday-makers forgot the minor
thrills of the regatta on their return. By
nightfall the Port was in a ferment—and
John Fordyce a most astounded man.
Groups of excited men stood about in the
street, talking, recounting, prophesying.
Half a dozen Fenian convicts had escaped,
and with them—nay, leading them—had
gone that Mr. John Collins from the
Emerald Isle Hotel! Such a gentleman he •
looked! Who would have dreamt him one
of that treacherous crew? Yet the whole
plot was as plain as a pikestaff! He’d
come to the colony for no other reason
than to arrange this escape. See how he
had hoodwinked everyone by going out in
Mr. Albert’s sulky every week! And that
person called Jones, who worked in a car-
riage factory and certainly hadn’t appeared
to know the dandified Mr. Collins, was
another of ’em. They had calmly waited
a propitious day, collected six prisoners
and made off!
The troopers were after ’em down the
coast long ere this, and the police-boat out
patrolling the seaboard. They’d be fetched
back before long—and a warm reception
no doubt they would get from the gaol
authorities. Quite right, too! But was it
not extraordinary that not a soul had seen
them getting into the vehicles in broad day-
light up behind the hospital wall. That
came of giving political offenders so much
latitude, even if they were well behaved.
Cool as cucumbers. Seemed that convict
called Cranston, working for the store
accountant, had walked down to the warder
in charge at the sea-wall and told him the
two Fenians there were wanted to move
furniture up at old Government House.
Did you ever hear the like? Likely that
warder knew more than he’d say—he let
’em go, anyhow. And the others just left
their respective jobs, painting or gardening
or something, and strolled to the rendez-
vous.
“And just you see, sir, if that there
whaler wot calls ’erself the Catalpa ain’t
been lolling round fer no other reason than
ter pick the lags up!” said one seaman to
John Fordyce.
John was as intrigued as the worst scan-
dalmonger in the crowd. To think his
friend Collins had turned out to be no more
than a conspirator! He remembered call-
ing him a sly dog two nights earlier, and
laughed at the recollection of his scarce
perceptible smile. How amused he must
have been at the way everyone had taken
him up; why, the governor of the gaol
had himself shown the distinguished visitor
over the establishment! And the whole
time he was a Fenian in disguise, a plotter,
an aider and abetter against the law, no-
thing at all of the dandy he appeared to
be, an elegant gentleman of leisure. No
wonder he warmed at mention of freedom !
John walked the streets, talking first to this
group, then to the next. And as he listened
to the vituperation, joining himself in sur-
mise and suggestion, he hoped, despite a
sense of almost personal affront, that Mr.
John Collins would not be ignominiously
dragged back in custody—for had his words
not been the featherweight in the scale for
John, a final goad to speed him on to
freedom?
“The Georgette has come in. They’re
commandeered her to go straight out and
bespeak the whaler,” called a man from a
passing trap.
John hastened down to the jetty along
with the rest. There lay the little steamer
—the same on which he and Collins had
spent so many pleasant hours together—
smoke pouring from her funnel as she made
ready to depart in chase of the Catalpa,
whose lights were still winking on the
horizon.
As he hurried along John made up his
mind to get aboard. He knew the captain
well, and Major Finnerty, of the Garrison,
was an intimate friend. He must see the
end of this affair; he could not wait idly
by; he would at least be a spectator in
the drama wherein Mr. Collins was playing
so large a part.
To his great annoyance the Georgette
cast off as he reached the jetty. He was
too late. He had perforce to watch her
steam out into the night.
The port was early astir, but no one
attempted to go about his.work; the popu-
lace drifted to the jetty or congregated
along the abandoned sea-wall, for all con-
victs were safely incarcerated within the
grey walls of the establishment. Who knew
what next might happen? There well
might be more than two or three conspira-
tors—there might yet be a mutiny, a mass-
acre. God knew what!
John, tired of hanging about on the
waterfront, wandered aimlessly back to the
hotel. Moloney, the publican, greeted him
with the information that the mail had
arrived and a letter been sent to his room.
An expensive-looking envelope endorsed
in rudely-printed . capitals lay upon the
dressing-table. What joke was this? For-
dyce immediately thought of anonymous
correspondence relating to his break with
Euphemia.
Inside lay a thin sheet of paper and
scrawled thereon in fine script a verse of
doggerel. Curiously he read the pencilled
lines.
“Good-bye, dear Handsome Jack Fordyce.
This note may add a little spice!
To-day John Collins’ free to brag
He came to free the Fenian lag —
Three cheers for Ireland!
No more Pat’s wine two Johns will drink,
As they stand trembling on the brink —
At police and marriage bonds they’ll wink,
Nor care what Queen and wife may think.
Three cheers for freedom!”
John re-read this effusion with delight.
Good for John Collins! Evidently he hid
a sense of humor beneath that formal
manner of his! And to risk a note like
this he must have found the company of
John Fordyce as congenial as that gentle-
man found his. Fordyce wished their paths
might have lain together. What a shame
the fellow had mixed himself up with a lot
of Irish discontents! They could have
spent happy days combing the northern
seas. John turned the envelope in his hand.
The printed inscription bore testimony to
the other’s wish to save him from any sus-
picion of connivance; and below the rhyme
he noticed a tiny: “Burn this. — J.C.”
With a sigh he complied with such good
advice. He was in no mind to be arrested
as a Fenian sympathiser on the very eve of
escape, but he wished he might have kept
the doggerel to remind him of a pleasant
acquaintanceship, or as a memento of his
bid for liberty.
He walked out to hear a rumor that the
troopers had found the vehicles abandoned
on the beach some twenty miles down the
coast, had met a man who had spoken to
the runaways, and even seen the wretches
making off in a whaleboat rowed by
negroes. The troopers had followed on
shore for miles, but lost them overnight.
At twelve o’clock the Georgette returned.
Excitement swept the town like a bush-
fire, rumor chased rumor in the burning
streets. It soon leaked out that the Cat-
alpa had displayed considerable imper-
tinence. The chief mate leant over the side
and explained the absence of his larboard
boat by saying the “Old Man” had gone
to Fremantle and there was no saying when
he’d be back. He hadn’t encouraged a
boarding party. Had replied to all ques-
tions in his Yankee drawl: “I’ve got no
instructions—but I somehow guess you’d
better not try to come alongside.” The
Georgette left the whaler at that and re-
turned for coal, as her bunkers were all
but empty.
John Fordyce stood on the jetty as the
steamer berthed. He accosted Major Fin-
nerty as he stepped from the gangway.
“Did you ever hear such impudence, sir?”
demanded the Major, retailing the en-
counter with gusto. “I only hope his Excel-,
lency will allow me to show the ruffians
what her Majesty’s Forces think of such
manners. And can you tell me a soul has
seen that Captain Anthony of the Catalpa
in Fremantle —for I’ll wager my last shilling
they’ve not!”
(To he continued next week.)


Ihe_AystraJian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY
!f Bulletin TJuilfTinqs
li 252 Georqe Street.
,1 S V D N
See announcement page 33.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jack Holt, who has sent Gallantic over
to Sydney to compete in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, gave Second Wind a run in the
Anniversary Handicap at Caulfield. There
was no support for the Perth-owned neddy;
his stable-companion, Hellenist, carrying the
livery of K. D. Bowman, of Adelaide, started
a hot favorite. Duncan, who will pilot
Second Wind in the King’s Cup at Hobart,
was on Hellenist. Latter did not come up
to expectations. After lying second for tlie
greater part of the journey, lie was passed
at the home turn by Mira Donna, who went
in pursuit of the flying pacemaker, Pur-
veyor. In a ding-dong finish Purveyor lasted
long enough to defeat the Great Star mare
by half a head.
Purveyor belongs to Pat Quinlan, the
Caulfield trainer, who won the Metropolitan
for J. P. Arthur with Cragford and had the
misfortune to see that gelding die in his
■stable a few weeks afterwards. Though he
had only Cist, 101 b. on Saturday, the son
of Saltash is on the up-grade. He covered
the mile and three furlongs in 2min. lOlsec.
Purveyor cost 200gns. as a yearling. At the
previous autumn .sales in Sydney 6750gns.
was paid for Dominant, another of the Salt-
ash tribe. Dominant now races in the joint
interests of two V.A.T.C. committeemen,
Joseph Fell and Norman Robinson. On
Saturday he led home a division of the
Rowena Welter field, in which only cross-
country jockeys were allowed to compete.
Dominant ran away with the race, but at
his next appearance he is as likely as not
to shirk duty and finish near the tail of the
procession.
Most striking feature of the Anniversary
Handicap contest was the achievement of St.
Frederick in finishing third after being last
at the home turn. This Bagot Handicap
winner, whose owner resides in Adelaide,
seems to be a horse of moods. He did not
take hold of the bit until heads were turned
for home, and then came with such a light-
Bert*/'* hear, there are lots oi=
Sharks about this season*
//
Gert : Yes } vou better not go
»m, Bert''
Bert: 'Oh, I run mo more risk.
"THAsN AN Vo He else".
G,ert; Im NOT SO SURE - Vou KNCsW -
THE NEARER THE
THE SVNEETER THE MEKT,
ning rush that he would have won in another
few strides. St. Frederick ought to be one
of the ■ hardest horses to beat in the Aus-
tralian Cup. He is built on staying lines,
being by St. Spasa from Miss Maderick, by
George Frederick (son of Carbine) from
Madam, a half-sister to Malvolio. As the
dam of Woorak, Madam gained high rank
as a brood mare. Mira Donna shaped so well
that she will have to be reckoned with very
seriously in the King’s Cup and Hobart
Cup. Signs of returning form were revealed
by Second Wind, who made a nice forward
move five furlongs from home.
Three years ago Sol Green took umbrage
over an official inquiry into the running of
My Lady Gay at Flemington and temporarily
retired from the ranks of owners. He is
back in the fold again, and on Saturday
was represented in the Holiday Stakes by two
Verbius colts: Attempto (from imported
Chivalry, the dam of Knight’s Favor),
trained by C. T. Godby: and Oratory (from
an English-bred daughter of Chivalry),
trained by Lou Robertson. Being much
above himself in condition, Oratory was un-
fancied ; but a measure of support was given
to Attempto. Attempto looked a winner
when he ran up to Iv. Cid at the distance,
but Powerscourt slipped up between the
pair and went on to score by half a neck
from Iv. Cid, with Attempto only a neck
away. Not having raced since he was
runner-up to Vauntry in the Maribyrnong
Plate, Powerscourt was comparatively
neglected.
Members of the Hoysted family continue
iu the limelight on Victorian courses. Fred
Hoysted saddled-up Solo King for the Haw-
thorn Hurdle, and, though the Comedy King
gelding had not appeared over the battens
since July, of last year, he was made joint
favorite with Nar Ron. Ridden with more
restraint, Solo King probably would have
Avon; he tired in the effort to shake off
rivals and was beaten by both Dunkeld and
Banchory, a Tasmanian jumper. Dunkeld
is trained by H. W. Gabell, who landed a
Grand; National Steeplechase with Sand-
hurst. lie is a promising novice. Hoysted
recovered his losses through the agency of
Plum King in the first division of the Rowena
Welter. This gelding belongs to his brother
“Tib.” Backed dowm to 2 to 1 he scored in
hollow style. Green Moth, by Greenstead,
was the medium of a big betting plunge in
the Tooronga Handicap. She duly won.
The stewards opened an inquiry into her
form as compared with that at Epsom a
week before.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Tweedside Hurdle: Solo King; next,
Banchory.
Caldermeade Handicap: Hellenist; next,
The Guide.
* * * «:
An interesting candidate for the Challenge
Stakes in .Charalf (Cistercian—Sweet Crop)
was given a trial for that race in a division
of the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park
on Saturday and eminently satisfied his
stable —he is trained by E. M. Williams for
R. Poole. Charalf won the Centennial Park
Handicap at the A.J.C. spring meeting, and
the form was good, for behind him, beaten
a length and a half, at a difference of 71b..
in lmin. 12|sec. for the six furlongs, was
that fast tliree-year-old Dermid. Dermid
had captured a race on the first day of the
meeting; he afterwards went to Melbourne
and carried off the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes,
beating Denis Boy and Pentheus. Casque
d’Or, carrying 9st. 61b.. was a 7-to-4 favorite
at Canterbury, Charalf, who was ridden by
Cook, being at fives, with Beckwith. Casque
d’Or ran creditably, but proved no match
for Charalf, who came home, full of running,
three lengths ahead of the black, with Wed-
ding Feast a close third. Charalf has only
7st. 51b. in the Challenge Stakes; Casque
d’Or has Bst. 81b.
Orby Anthus (Orby’s Pride—An thus), a
brilliant customer from Newcastle, whose
record is now four wins in five starts, cut
half a second off Charalf’s time (lmin.
132 sec.) in accounting for the second divi-
sion ; but Charalf was untroubled, whereas
David Blake made Orby Anthus gallop all
the way. David Blake went under by a
length and a quarter (both were at fives),
Booth’s mare Sweet Valais (20 to 1) being
third and the favorite, Hunt the Slipper,
next. Orby Anthus is not in the Challenge
Stakes.
Cook was on another winner, Gipsy’s Fate
(5 to 1), in the Park Stakes, Gipsy’s Fate,
a little chestnut mare from Maoriland, cut-
ting down Tenaciqus (6 to 1) in the straight.
Ridden by another jockey, she had failed
miserably at Gosford on the Tuesday, and
the stewards promptly became inquisitive.
Grand March, backed from tens to fives by
Joe Cook and his friends, finished too well
for a field of third-raters in the Canterbury
Handicap, and Roley (5 to 2) made hacks
of another poor lot in the Welter Handicap.
Roley was steered by Pike, who, on Rodondo
(4 to 1), a gelding by Manfred —Recitation,
had had an exciting duel with Jimmy Munro,
on Palmdale (7 to 2), in a division of the
Maiden Welter. The judge could not sepa-
rate them.
For Randwick on Saturday and Tuesday:
Bondi Plan dicap: Ranchero; next, Sat-
moth.
Challenge Stakes: Charalf; next, Gold
Digger.
January Handicap: Attar or Cathmar;
next, Nagrada.
Paddington Handicap: Attar or Mr.
Kerry; next, Rosendo.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Phlare; next, Gal-
lantic.
Anniversary Handicap: Jcypore; next,
Cathmar.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bobby Stone (10.0) settled Jack Fitz-
gerald (9.10) in the second stanza at Leich-
hardt Stadium on Saturday night. Fitz-
gerald fought well throughout the first, but
Stone knocked him cold with a nicely-timed
right cross to the chin when hostilities were
resumed.
* * * *
Thorough was the work of Walter Brown-
ing (14.3) and Billy Meeske (14.2) at
Leichhardt. Browning stuck to straight
wrestling more than Meeske, and won the
first fall with a step-over toehold. The
Canadian 'afterwards troubled his antagonist
w T ith flying tackles, but Mfeeske side-stepped
one of these in the sixth round, and Brown-
ing blitted the iron, corner-post. 'The post
was not seriously injured. Browning was
still out when time was called.
The Ins and Outs
second match with the South
Africans Was played at Hobart, and the
Speckshioneers showed as little, respect there
for the reputation of the- visitors. as they
had done at Launceston. The locals, batting
first, went, for 164, Atkinson again top-
scoring with 48, „ and left-hander Quinn
taking 5 for 36. ’Nash bowled so well for
the Tassies that seven of the Afrikander
side were, out for 119, but Cameron, coming
in late, hit so freely for 72 n.o. that the
knock closed at 203. Nash, a fast bowler
from Launceston, took 7 for 50. The second
Tasmanian innings yielded 199 for 5 wickets,
Atkinson this time making 55.
»I* i\i %
“Gabba”: Alec Ilurwood, the Queensland
bowler who for some mysterious reason was
preferred by the selectors of the last Aus-
tralian Eleven to Ron Oxenham, is leaving
his native land to take up exile in the State
over which Jack Lang looms. A good right-
hand spin-bowler at his best, li'urwood has a
rather laborious style, which lias more than
once aroused the question as to whether he
was likely to last long in first-class company.
He had a good season prior to the selection,
taking 34 wickets at an average of 20.62. 111
England, Woodfull, apparently, did not.
think much of him, for he did not figure in
any of the Tests. However, in “all matches”
on the tour, he took 35 wickets for an aver-
age of 24.08 —not so dusty.
$ "!•
“Rottnest”: Isn’t it about time that the
coves in command of Australian cricket real-
ised that there are other players worthy of
consideration for the Tests than those in
the Sheffield Shield combine? Westralia in
particular lias always had a hard deal in
this respect. Ernest Parker was one of
Australia’s finest batsmen in the early
1900’s, and proved it whenever he had a
chance against visiting teams. Australia
has been looking for a left-hand opening
batsman ever since Warren Bardsley called
it a day. If ever there was a promising
one of the type it is the young Westralian
Bromley, who in his two innings against the
South Africans dealt witli the bowling m
a style with which the modern cricket bar-
racker is unfortunately not familiar. What-
ever the quality of tlieir batting there can
be no doubt that the South African bowling
is near to first class. Now that the Test
issue is decided, the selectors might give
this batsman, and one or others from
other States, a chance to shape in first-class
company.
* -f * *
“Torrens”: Brian Ilone, the South Aus-
tralian Rhodes scholar for 1928 and one of
the best batsmen the Wheatfielders have had
in the Sheffield series for years—he headed
the averages in 1929-30 —has had a good sea-
son for Oxford, going straight into the ’Var-
sity team as soon as he went up. As was
the case in South Australia, he was em-
ployed as an opening batsman, and though
this is not the easiest possie for a university
youngster, he more than made good. He was
third in the averages with a tally of 33.77
and a total of 743 runs, which included two
scores over the century. In an ordinary
year, Hone would have been the king-pin of
the side. He was overshadowed by the
Nawab of Pataudi, probably the finest scor-
ing batsman in England to-day, who has
broken all university records.
* * * *
“Hotham”: This cricket season has seen
the bowler on the whole much more success-
ful than is usually the case on this side of
the world. Grimmett and Ironmonger have
certainly put it over the South Africans, but
Bell and McMillan of the Afrikanders can
claim creditable figures also. Grimmett and
Ironmonger were running neck and neck to
the end of the third Test, with the ex-
Qtieenslander in the lead with 42 wickets
for an average of 16.38. Grimmett has
taken 40 at 18.82 apiece, but, as he will
play in both the remaining Tests, will pro-
probably head the Victorian by the end of
the season. Bell has taken 37 wickets for
24.59 apiece, good going for a fast bowler
pitted against such batsmen as Bradman
and Woodfull, to name only a couple.
sjc * ❖
“Fitzcray” : Though gates have been good
in spite of bad weather conditions for
several matches, the Board of Control is not
yet out of the wood in regard to the South
African guarantee of £12,000 (B. 13/l/’32).
Net takings to date arc £8746, leaving £3254
to come. Given good weather, the two Tests
especially that at Melbourne, which is easily
the best supporter of Test cricket, should
wipe the debt off, leaving the remaining
games against South Australia, Victoria and
Westralia to bring along a bit of extra
bunce. By way of making sure, the Board
of Control has asked Victoria to cancel the
pennant cricket games on Saturday, Feb-
ruary 6, when the tourists meet Victoria
again, and this has been agreed to.
* * * *
“Okl Q.” : Dr. MacDonald (“Robbie”) has
been appointed the representative of the Aus-
tralian Board of Control in England.
Victorian-born, he went to Queensland as
a youngster and, after a long apprentice-
ship, developed into a first-class batsman of
the Kelleway type. For years before
Bananaland was admitted to the Sheffield
Shield ring, Robbie was the mainstay of
Queensland’s batting. Old Country asso-
ciations took him to England, where he set
up in practice in Leicester. Before long he
was playing for the county,' and for some
.years was secretary . of the county club,
turning in the.job to make a special visit to
Australia to look lip old friends and. rela-
tions. and to. cast a judgmatical eye over
the South Africans.- -'
* * * * ■ f
“Shrewsbury” ; An interesting comparison
of • the figures standing to the credit of
great batsmen appeared in a recent number
of• the English “.Cricket Annual,” though it
was compiled, before the beginning of the
current Australian season. The two' leading
English batsmen are Hobbs and “W.G.”
Hobbs has played 1244 innings (103 \ n.o.’s),
made 57,724 runs and average* in
“W.G.” tad 1«5 knock* made 5t984
and averaged 39.55, with 105 not outs to
Ins credit. The best of the Australian* ii
lefthander Warren Bardsley with 384 innings
3< not outs, 17,461. runs and 50 31 aveM&
Bradman has played 104 innings with
not outs His run total is 8075, and his
average 90.73, and he has the highest sJm.
of the lot of them with 452 no H,? it
last on a list of 14 Australian players
* * * *
“llotham”: The Victorian cricket heads
who have been surreptitiously kicking them-
selves ever since they let Clarrie Grimmett
go to South Australia, have determined to
find a slow bowler, whether “bosie” or nor
The tradition of left-hander Jack Saunders
is one winch Warwick Armstrong, with his
high-tossed leg breaks, and the very variable
Hartkopf have not quite approached Youm-
Smith, who has lately come into the linn-
light as a wicket-getter, and who has shown
moreover, that lie can wield a run-gettiim
bat at, the end of an innings, might he the
man Victoria has been looking for. lie j, s
a nephew of Dave Smith, who was a member
of the team that went to England unde"
Syd Gregory in 1912—the year of the
famous rebellion of the old hands which led
to the establishment of the Board of Control.
(Continued on page 81.)
In the Australian track and field cham-
pionships at Sydney C. G. Carlton won the
100 in 9 4-ssec. —two yards inside evens.
The time equals his previous best in
an Australian title race. Golding, who
recently put up close to . world’s " record
time for the quarter, was beaten by his
fellow-Welsliman F. W. O’Brien in his
specialty. Time was 49min. 4-ssec., and 011
this showing Golding was at least. 12 yards
worse than in some of his recent perform-
ances. A. J. Watson, of Victoria, made no
mistake with the 120 yards hurdles, equal-
ling N.S.W. record time—lsmin. 3-ssec.
Little Hillhouse won the mile for Victoria
in 4min. 21 2-ssec.—another State record,
and Queensland scored in the broad jump, in
which 11. H. Day covered 23ft. 7-jin. Vic-
toria had all the better of the other field
events, and wound up the first day with six
wins to two by N.S.W. and one to Queens-
land.
In Sydney Domain Baths Charlton proved
himself as good as ever, perhaps better,
by winning the 880 yards championship
of N.S.W. in lOmin. 22sec. This not
only scatters all previous records made for
the distance in Australia, but is only 1 3-ssec.
outside the world’s record to the credit of
American C- Crabbe, made in 1930. Arne
Borg, now a professional, is said to have
covered the distance in lOmin. 144 sec. at
Berlin in 1927, but this is doubtful. In
Charlton, Carlton and Pearce, Australia will
have a great Olympic trio.
* * *
Though by no means in their best form, the
Japanese tennis-players made a good impres-
sion on their first appearance in Australia
on the Sydney White City courts. Satoh,
the star of the team, was unfortunate enough
to find Jack Crawford in one of his most
exalted moods, and with neither eye nor
condition up to concert pitch, was beaten in
two sets by 12 games to 4. A great battle
between Aubrey Willard and llarada, an
international veteran, saw the visitor win bv
sheer determination, after Willard had taken
the first set. Nunoi has a severe service,
but, like his mates, he found condition lack-
ing in the game against Dunlop. Dunlop
won two sets to one, the last going to 11-0.
The Australians won both the doubles
games.
*#• ' * *
The South Africans wound up their tour
of Britain by beating Scotland 6-3 at
Murrayfield. They won 23 of their matches,
losing one and - drawingr two. This is the
best Springbok performance to date.
* ❖ * #
“Third Base”: Inter-State baseball
matches are not to be played this year.
The depression has hit baseball harder than
most sports. At the best of times funds are
not plentiful Owing to the lack of properly
enclosed playing grounds, and few , players
are in a position these days to pay their own
way on these inter-State visits. All the
same, if the game is going to flourish, inter-
state tourneys arc imperative, while a tour
by a good team from overseas, preferably
American or Japan, would do it a lot
of good.


WHAT WILL 1932
BE LIKE?
The January “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
discusses this question; and every
investor, great and little, will be
interested in the data brought
together and the conclusions
reached.
“The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
The '‘Kismet” ’3l is the most scientific
instrument yet designed for the accurate
recording of air pressure in pneumatic
tyres.
It is a dead accurate gauge. Absolute accuracy
in reading and ready visibility is ensured by
wide spacing of progressive pressure readings,
calibrated individually in large figures on a flat
surface.. There is no rubber sack, and nothing
to get out of order.
Supplied in neat leather wallet—
in three models, Balloon, High
Pressure, Giant.
Price, 9/6 each.
The most
accurate
GAUGE on
the market
-its 'Bhitisk
ft
as
N
5S
v;<
’3l
TYRE
TESTER
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Platt
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The Ins and Outs
“Shrewsbury”A recent statement by Sir
Home Gordon in the “Cricketer’s Annual”
makes my gorge rise. He asserts as a fact
“never stated in print, but testified to by
those who have lately visited Australia,” that
Australian groundsmen have carefully pre-
pared Test-match wickets so as to render
them 20 per cent, slower than was formerly
the case, the reason being that Australia
now possesses no great fast bowlers. “This
means,” to use the gentleman’s own words,
“that Larwood, who is bowling faster and
bettey than ever, is not likely to get his
balls stump high.” The amiable person goes
on to say, apropos of the selection of the
coming English Eleven, “This local condi-
tion is of great importance and should be
borne in mind when our attack is officially
selected.” Further comment is hardly neces-
sary.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: W. B. Slade (B. 6/l/’3l) may
be fitly described as one of the fathers of
Queensland cricket, though he has never taken
any official part in fostering the game. An
old English public-school player, he came to
Australia a,s a young man, and when he
subsequently settled in the Warwick district
of the Darling Downs, set to work to plant
the seeds of the game he loved so well. There
was no State organisation in the 1870’s
and private enterprise provided what cricket
there was. The Downs were full of young
Englishmen in those days, all more or less
experts in the game, and with the assist-
ance of the native-born—not too numerous
then —cricket flourished in its pleasantest
aspects, an annual trip to Brisbane to take
on the townies being the great occasion of
the year. It was Slade who founded the
long-defunct Queensland I Zingari, which
was affiliated to the parent club in England.
A really good bowler and useful bat, “W.B.’’
figured prominently in the score-sheets of
those days. His love for the game did not
wane with the years, as his gift some time
ago to the Warwick municipality of the
enclosed cricket ground known as Slade Park
witnesses.
* * v *
“Fitzcray”: The Board of Control meet-
ing in Melbourne decided to allot 75 per
cent, of the profits from any Test match to
the cricket association of the State in which
the match is played, the balance to be dis-
tributed among the affiliated associations in
proportion to their representation on the
botrrd. Losses on Test matches are to be
met by the associations out of and in propor-
tion to profits in Tests retained by them or
received through the board from other
States. If the total losses on a tour exceed
total net profits, all net profits shall be paid
to the board, which will distribute them to
the States where losses have occurred in
proportion to the losses.
Racquet and Bawl
“Fitzcray”: The first tennis Test between
Australia and Japan begins this week on the
Kooyong courts at Melbourne, the opening
day’s play consisting of three singles matches
and a double, Crawford and Turnbull against
Satoh and Nunoi. On the second day Hop-
man will partner Turnbull against Nunoi
and Harada, and on the last day Hopman
and Crawford face Satoh and Harada. All
matches will consist of the best of three
advantage sets, and on the form of the Aus-
tralians will depend whether or not Aus-
tralia will be represented in the Davis Cup,
entries for which close on January 31.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Glenelg”: The Australian tennis cham-
pionships begin at Adelaide on February 15,
and will last a week. All the title-holders
will be present to defend, and in addition the
Japanese visitors will lend a hand. On
several previous occasions when overseas
visitors have taken part in the champion-
ships they have succeeded in lifting some of
them. J. C. Parke took the singles in 1912,
and F. G. Lowe repeated the trick three
years later, while Parke and Dixon also won
the doubles during their visit. Borotra won
the singles in 1928 and the doubles with
Brugnon, and Gregory, of the last English
team, got away with the singles. There
are more unlikely things than that the
Japanese, who should be well used to our
grass courts by then, will keep up the tradi-
tion.
* * * *
“Mawrot”: Every time I am forced to
watch lawn tennis I wonder why nobody
has pressed the suggestion made in England
a few years ago for the abolition of the
double serve. Express services have badly
unbalanced what was once quite a decent
game; fast and furious gentlemen who deal
in them might moderate their transports and
try to develop other branches of their play
if they knew that slips didn’t go over and
that to place a single serve outside the
appointed square meant a point to their
opponent. The player who lets desire for
force outweigh judgment while the ball is
in play doesn’t get a second chance. So
why the privilege accorded him who makes
the same mistake when play is beginning?
“Top Spin”: Advices from Paris show
France has been challenged for this year s
Davis Cup by 16 countries, Australia being
an absentee up to the present. The aspi-
rants are Britain, America, Italy, Japan,
Greece, Ireland, Belgium, Czechoslovakia,
Chile, Paraguay, Brazil, Hungary, Switzer-
land, Holland, Poland and Monaco. The
first two seem to be the only ones with any
good prospects of reaching the challenge
round, and may possibly fight out the zone
final, as they did last year.
$ # * *
“Kaikoura”: The Australian women’s
tennis team opened its tour of Maoriland
in good style at Christchurch, taking both the
singles and doubles, while in the mixed
doubles the N.S.W. player, Miss N. Hall,
won in partnership with F. Sheppard. The
lady is ranked only sixth in the N.S.W.
tennis hierarchy, but she played top-notch
tennis, beating the M.L. champion, Mrs.
Dykes, in two straight sets.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The Rules Committee of St.
Andrews is. at present chewing over a tough
problem. Two golfers were playing at Man-
chester —the sort of place where anything
might happen—and one of them left his putt
in the brink of the hole. As the other fellow
was preparing to take his shot for the half
what is described as “a slight earthquake”
came along and shook the first ball into the
hole. Its owner claimed the hole, but his
opponent would have none of it, and the
match was called off. There is nothing defi-
nite in the rules applying to the situation,
but rule 17 might meet the case. This pro-
vides that if a ball is displaced by any
HAND OVER HAND.
BINKS: “I hear you’re a good swimmer! Can you do the
crawl?”
DRINKS: "Too right! That’s how I got home last night!”
agency outside the match on the putting-
green it shall be replaced without penalty.
*** ' *
“Iconoclast”: Golf is notoriously respon-
sible for marital infelicities unless both hus-
band and wife are golfers, in which case they
generally never see anything of each other
and live happily ever after. An unusual
instance has recently come to light in
America, where a Mrs. Truppo applied for
her second divorce within 12 months. Her
first husband was a golf addict, so much so
that she finally divorced him in disgust and
married another who didn’t know a foozle
from a mid-iron. Unfortunately the new
husband made the acquaintane of the old one,
who taught him to play golf. The result
was that the pair became inseparable, spend-
ing all day on the links, until the last case
of the lady was worse than the first and
she fled to the courts for further relief.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: A.I.F. golf competitions
continue to spring up like mushrooms.
Most Australian clubs stage at least one of
their own annually, apart from the big
general events. A new one which will be
decided on February 4 at Bonnie Doon will
be for a trophy presented by William
Vicars; it will be open to any members of
recognised golf clubs who have served with
the A.I.F. or any of the Allied forces. It
will take the form of a four-ball-best-ball
competition v. par, a replica of the trophy
going to each of the winning pair and a
prize to the runners-up. The 13-year-old
contest for the A.I.F. Cup, presented by
James Murdoch, will be played at Kensing-
ton on February 24, a change having been
made from last year’s system of playing the
match on three different courses to avoid con-
gestion. In the past the competition has
been a stroke one. This time it will be a
struggle with par, which should result in an
early thinning out of the big field which
always enters, for Kensington is one of the
toughest of Sydney courses. The event is
open both to amateur and professional Digger-
golfers, and will end with the usual dinner
at the clubhouse.
* * * *
“ J.H.T.”: “Gleneagles” (B. 23/12/’3l>
truly dubs the now-obsolete cleek a general-
utility club. Up till about 30 years ago there
was (and may be still) a “cleek club” in
Edinburgh, which played on the Braid Hills
course, using that club exclusively. “Forbye”
the elimination of the caddie, it was “gowf”
stripped of all the expensive frills and non-
essentials which now endear it to the wealthy
lower classes. In these times a cleek club
would be a godsend to thousands in Aus-
tralia, to whom this sanest and healthiest of
all sports is debarred by the absurd expenses
attached. As a Scots “gowfer” of 35-40 years
ago (Troon, Machrihanish, Dunblane, Len-
zie) I had my first clubs made to order by
Willie Fernie, a celebrated champion of his
time and professional clubmaker of Troon.
The five clubs cost me 355.
:•/. * * *
“Brassey”: America continues to be a
home from home to Scottish professional
golfers, who seem to
have a rare knack of
hopping in ahead of
the native-born when
big purses arc on
offer. A few days
ago Tommy Armour
got away with the
big open competition
at Miami in Florida,
and this good example
was followed a few
days later by Mac-
donald Smith, who
won the Los Angeles
open, and a fat
purse with it —for
the third time in
seven years. Smith’s
card was 281 for the
72 holes, or 3 below
par for the course.
There was plenty of
talent in the opposi-
tion, too, Australian
Joe Kirkwood being
second with 284 and
the redoubtable
Walter Hagen third
with 288.
*
“Racketeer”:
Though much is
made of the alleg-
ed 1 y deteriorating
effect on the morale
of America of the
bootlegging industry,
there are many seri-
ous thinkers who are
inclined to ascribe
the drift to the
national obsession
with golf. Prior to
1887 there was not
a solitary golf club
in America. To-day
there are 6000 pri-
vate clubs and 2000
private courses with a total of 4,000,000
players. The yearly expenditure of these
members is rated at 200 millions annually,
and it is calculated that if the language
expended every 12 months could be collected
and canned it would supply a central-heating
system for the North and South Poles.
Car and Cycle
“Wliizz”: Motorists the world over were
disappointed last week when beach con-
ditions in Maoriland prevented Wizard
Smith making his attempt to break the
world’s motor speed record on Kaitaia
Beach. Normally at this time of the year
the famous beach is hard and flat, but
this time the prevailing wind has not been
in evidence and the sea has in consequence
roughened the going. The big car designed
by Don Harkness was given a preliminary
trial the other day with ordinary road tyres
on, and, using only one-tenth power, reached
125 m.p.h. Harkness, who returned to Sydney
on the Ufimaroa last week, has no doubt
that Smith, bar accidents, will break
Campbell’s 245.736 m.p.h. He is also of
opinion that if Campbell or anyone else
tries to better the new record—if accom-
pished—it will be useless to try and do
so on short and dangerous beaches like
Daytona—they will have to come to Kaitaia.
Smith will now have to wait for the next
high-water springs, and that will not be
until the end of the month.
“Statis” : The record which Smith is wait-
ing to attack in Maoriland is a matter of onlv
34 years, but in that time the figures have
jumped from 39.24 m.p.h. to 245.730. The
daring pioneer who startled the world in
1898 was a Frenchman, Chasseloup-Laubat.
who drove a Jeantaud car over a kilometre
with a Hying start at this revolutionary rate
of speed. Henry Ford was the drst man to
top 90 m.p.h. He did it in a six-cylinder car
of his own designing and building in 1904.
The same year, Rigolly, a Frenchman, broke
into the three figures, and then A. McDon-
ald came along with the first English score,
106.4 m.p.h. in a Napier, on Daytona Beach.
From then on the figures rose annually to
the present mark. It is worth noting that
of late years American and British cars
and drivers have monopolised the speed
contest, France, the pioneer in the game,
having dropped out.
“Mixture”: Among the many attempts
made to find a cheaper propellant for cars
an apparatus for utilising compressed air
has appeared. The air is stowed under
high compression in a tank and is carried
to the transmission by a small engine. There
is no cooling system, no carburetter, no
ignition, nor any noise or odor save a slight
hiss from the exhaust. Even the question
of fresh supplies of propellant is solved,
most of the air being recaptured after
going through the engine and recompressed.
It sounds too good to be. true, but given
an apparatus by which the car engine
could keep up the standard of compression
as it ran, the idea has practicability.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: J. S. Wright, the British
holder of the world’s motor-bike speed record,
was to have tried for new figures on the Pen-
dine Sands, in Wales, last month, but found
himself unable to do so because the specially
built machine he intended to use went
missing. Wright had been over in Hungary
to attempt a record run on a famous stretch
of road there, but decided to return home.
His machine was shipped at Hamburg,
and has not been seen since. It contains
many new devices and gadgets.
* * * *
“Sorrento”: The Victorian Amateur
Cyclists’ Union has fixed the dates for the
cycling items in the Australian Games to
be held in Melbourne. There will be a
62-mile road race on February 1, starting
from Campbellfield. The track cycling will
take place at Melbourne Motordrome two
days later: half-mile, one mile and five
miles for seniors; one mile and five miles
for juniors and half a mile for girls. Entries
close on January 23.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Queensland, which once boasted
a notable array of amateur scullers, now
finds it difficult to rake up entrants for a
sculling event. The formation of a separate
sculling association is to be attempted, and
Alf Fenton, ex-professional champion of the
world, has stated his willingness to lend a
hand with the coaching. The State has
produced more than one champion in the
shells, including Mick Slack, who won the
Australian title three times, and Arthur
Baynes, who figured with credit in the
Diamonds at Henley and took the Aus-
tralian title at Brisbane in 1926.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Mannum”: Adelaide oarsmen are troubled
because of the lack of water in the Torrens,
which makes it almost impossible to get
any training for the forthcoming season.
What little water there is is so choked with
weeds that it requires a powerful effort to
get an oar into the mixture, and once
there it is likely to stick. Some blame inter-
ference with the weir, but the general
opinion is that, in bailing out their boats
after a spin, careless crews during the past
few months have neglected to put the water
back in the Torrens.
* * * *
“Topping Lift” : The trans-Tasman yacht
race has petered out, the M.L. yacht Aorere,
which was the sole challenger of the winner,
Teddy, having been withdrawn. Teddy’s
owner, J. Tambs, came all the way from the
South Seas to take part in the race, and
Aorere’s skipper, Lieut.-Commander Juler,
who had specially gone to Auckland to navi-
gate her, was also left high and dry. Natur-
ally. neither is pleased.
* * * *
“Spike”: H. A. Bascombe, amateur quar-
ter-mile champion of Australia, was not long
in getting among the money after turning pro-
fessional. At his first appearance in the cash
game at Jeparit, in Victoria, Bascombe won
a quarter-mile event from scratch in a style
which made most of the opposition look as
if they were running backwards. He started
ott the 8-yard mark, whch was virtually
scratch, and was clocked to finish at
Bascombe should be heard of at Stawell’s big
Easter meeting, where he will start in the
quarter and a 600-yard event.


I
Vj
Ill'
>V»lj
WM*]
Mark Everything With
e
They safeguard al 1 appareland household
linen. Neat, Distinctive and Fadeless.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
c&.&.ltijtCicurui*
Actual Size, Style No. 6.
THE PRICES ARE MODERATE.
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS.
Write for Name Circular to
J. a J. CASH AUSTRALIAN WEAVING CO. PTY, LTD.
8S CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND, MELB.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
(T
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
•First class only. fFirst and third class,
t Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
) Joint
Agents
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
i The “Claude Carbury” who according to
the cables gave Patricia Richards away when
she married her young Earl of Jersey at
St. Margaret’s, Westminster, last week was
F. C. S. Parbury, of Sydney. He married
Doris Blomtield 20-odd years ago, and they
lived here till he left to share in the man-
agement of the London end of Parbury,
Henty and Co. Mrs. Ken Richards has
always been a friend of the family, and, as
Ken is tied to his station at present by. the
exigencies of the depresh, the job which he
wrnuld otherwise have performed had to be
done by proxy. The Parburys are amongst
the many members of the Australian colony
in London who are completely Anglicised.
They have a place in the country, a son in
the army and two boys at Eton.
There were many wet eyes last week
when the Intermediate results were pub-
lished. Though they filled pages in the dailies
the proportion of passes was poor, and the
good passes were few. Schools have been
complaining for months that they could not
get good work from the higher classes, and
the results justify the complaint. The atmo-
sphere of depression in so many homes is
blamed. Who knows? —perhaps the general
unrest has affected some teachers too!
Important people in the tennis world
swept down on the Lawn Tennis Association’s
clubrooms the other afternoon to pay
respects to the three star players from Japan.
Tne party was timed for three, but the
visitors were still busy on the practice
courts at that hour, and it was not till three-
thirty that they stepped, in immaculate
cream togs and very cool-looking, into the
assemblage. Before that the terraces were
gay as beds of phlox and zinnias with the
garments of summer girls. Here this
Letter met Daphne Akhurst, now Mrs.
Cozens; Mrs. Ford, who was Kellet Baker,
in spreading lilac muslins; the tall Dingle
girl, in blurred black-and-white chiffons; the
Hartigans, proud parents of the brilliant
Joan ; Jack Crawford and his wife, who was
Marjorie Cox; the Norman Brookeses; Mrs.
W. Stewart (she gave the Stewart Cup for
schoolgirls), and the Mayoral Walders, she
in smart navy and white and one of the
hostesses.
The crush was a tremendous success, and
Mrs. Roland Conway and Mrs. G. S. War-
burton had a right to feel proud, for theirs
were the hands and brains responsible for
the cool flower arrangements and the mixing
of the guests. The wife of Japan’s Consul-
General Inouc helped Mrs. Frank Peach
(her husband's president of the Lawn Tennis
Association) to receive the guests, prominent
among whom were groups of pretty, smiling,
very fashionably-dressed girls of Japan.
Of the three players, Harada is the best-
looking. He has a lean, alert face, and a
suddenly flashing smile. The baby of the
group is Nunoi, and the veteran j. Satoh.
They all bow from the knees (or so it seems)
on being presented, and really there’s still
something captivating to woman in the bond-
ing male back.
Alec Melrose, the lawyer-squatter who is
Adelaide’s best-known patron of the arts,
has been in St. Luke’s for a fortnight. He
was passing through Sydney on a visit to
a north-eastern property in which he is
interested when he was ordered to turn in
for repairs. Mr. Melrose can find recreation
in stringing verses together, and the chances
are he has already used up many writing-
pads. A man , with a hobby like that ought
to make an ideal patient.
A flapper coming up from Melbourne last
week was going through all the horrors of
sea-sickness. She had successfully used up
two containers, and lay back exhausted. Then
she suddenly sat up, and “Mother,” she said,
“you’d hardly believe it, but a girl I know
once straightened out a lot of these con-
tainers, tacked them all over her, and went
to the ship’s dance as ‘The Return of the
Swallow.’ They gave her a prize,” she
moaned weakly, and turned her face once
more to the wall.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan (you remember her hus-
band was Premier of Queensland) is up from
Melbourne,, where son Jack and daughter
Jill have been finishing their education.
Jack, who was a pupil of his father’s old
college in Victoria, was intended for the
law, too. But mandamuses and torts failed
to appeal to the young northerner, and he is
now budding out in the film business. He
has started in to learn from packing to
producing with Sydney’s branch of Fox
Films.
Sep. Rowe put up a record last week. He
is the first member of the Union Club who
lias won a first prize—or indeed any big
prize-—in the State lottery. He bought the
winning ticket as one of a syndicate of nine
golfers. Sep. got his D.S.O. for brilliant
work with General Grimwade’s 4th Artil-
lery Division in France. His friend, fellow-
gunner and fellow-solicitor, Eric Campbell
(they were partners after the war), also
put up a record this week. He is the first
Union Club member who has ever appeared
at a Sydney police court on a charge of
using “insulting language” about a Premier.
One wonders if the committee of this year’s
Artists’ Ball wall carry the frivol out in the
grand manner of Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who,
with her sense of decoration and her organis-
ing ability, was largely responsible for the
spectacular success of the first two efforts to
create travelling scholarships for the young.
So far the names on the committee this year
sound terribly restrained. However, the ball’s
fixed for the first of April; artist Jimmy
Bancks’s wife is to be president of the
women’s committee, while Julian Ashton is
the head serang of all.
Doris Fitton welcomed her Independents
to their first 1932 party on the hottest night
of last week, when all the city streamed a
long dank strand of hair. However, a crisp
curl was put into the party by three clever
youngsters, who made “Between the Soup
and the Savory” the breezy laughraiser its
writer intended. This was the only theatri-
cal offering of the evening, which, though
spines welted and tulles wilted, was passed
merrily. In spite of the hot breath that
stole through the windows from the city
streets —streets which seemed to heave to the
silver nailparing of moon—about. 50 girls
and boys danced unceasingly. lan Hay’s
mad, glad “Middle Watch” is the club’s
next offering, and artist Joe Collins, as the
Admiral, is guaranteed to make Mr. Lang
forget even the New Guard.
lan Hay, by the way, seems to be an-
other of those who have forgotten us. Once
he was sure he couldn’t let many years pass
before he visited the country the Diggers
came from.
The belle of Oswald Cheeke’s cocktail
party was Joan Wilkinson. She’s a tall
slip of a girl with a pretty head and a cool,
clear skin; and they looked their best above
poppy-pink laces. Joan’s handsome mother
was also present, her hair beautifully waved,
and in a long, skin-fitting frock of pale
hydrangea tones. Mrs. William Macleod’s
black panne velvet wore its sleeves long, and
so did sculptor Theo Cowan’s. Mrs. More-
ing, just back from America, had much to
tell of the Waldrons. Sydney’s old friend
Charles is doing some of his best work in
“The Barretts of Wimpole-street.” John
Longstaff and the Jimmy Macdonalds repre-
sented Art.
In the hall of the Oswald Cheeke flat
there’s a panel of damask brocade which was
once the property of the Empress Eugenie,
and some old-world silk embroideries to catch
a woman’s eye. These are not the work of
Oswald’s hands. He disclaims ever embroid-
ering anything except a tale.
This bright-faced girl is Joyce Allan,
known to scientists in almost every corner of
the world as the assistant in conchology at
the Sydney Museum. Joyce knows the life-
history of al-
most every
known shell,
from those the
size of a pin’s
head to the
uonster clam
a r m a m ents.
She draws
them (some
of her fine
work is in the
“A ustr alian
E n c y c 1 opse-
dia”), writes
and lectures
about the m,
and knows
them by their
pet names as
well as their
scientific
labels. She is
a c q u a i n ted
with 50,000 of
them, ana part of her job is to identify them
for the student and the research worker. Miss
Allan ranks Count Stromfelt, the Swedish
diplomat, and Antarctic explorer Shackleton
as among the most interesting and interested
of the callers. She was the first Austra-
lian to make a close study of sea-slugs, and
her exhaustive articles on this subject have
appeared in the “Museum Magazine,” illus-
trated by her drawings of the small creatures.
Stuart Allan, a well-known black-and-white
artist, was Joyce’s father. Golf is her game;
and Talma made this picture.
Clara Butt herself was never bombarded
with such a mass of flowers and compli-
mentary greenstuffs as greeted the Pickwick
Theatre Group at the end of their first
Savoy production. The flowers were twined
into every shape—baskets, posies, fans and
glowing sheafs; but the truly striking
arrangement took possession of the stage
before the final curtain-call. This was a
great arch of laurel rising above a floral
gateway marked “Success”; and through it
Dorise Hill and Philip Lewis, who are re-
sponsible for the venture, stepped arm in arm
to the footlights. This was the signal for
applause almost as prolonged as that which
greets Colonel Eric Campbell, of the New
Guard, upon his public appearances.
The Savoy was crowded for this first per-
formance, and the frocking was almost all
of the fashionable backless kind. How ugly
shoulder-blades can be this Letter never
realised until this style became established.
The shoulder-blades of the very young and
thin have the look of a skewered chicken;
and the old and adipose haven’t blades any
longer, only bludgeons. The backless bodice
seems specially designed for middle age—and
who wants to own she’s middle-aged V The
girls of the Pretty Maiden sextet of “Floro-
dora” acted as ushers before they popped
around to masquerade as professionals.
Eric Gordon, who has brightened up the
Australia’s Winter Garden till it looks like
a spring song, planned the stage sets. These
were all reversible, and the scarab-green
and amethystine walls of the first act be-
came the sedate brown-panelled walls of the
second. Mary Wells made a breath-taking-
entry in fuchsia-toned velvet pyjamas, while
Alathea Siddons impressed in orange-and-
black chiffons, with real family-joint leg-o’-
mutton sleeves in black velvet.
The last stone of the Bridge pylons was
laid in its place last Friday; and now if you
can pick the right pylon and climb to the
top and pick the right stone and manage to
prise it away from its cement setting, you
will find ss. For luck Dr. Bradfield put 2s.
there, another 2s. came from Mr. Ennis’s
pocket and a third man threw in a bob.
Apart from, a few cleaning-up jobs the whole
thing is finished now except for a few yards
of the carriage-way, which can’t be smoothed
off till the weight tests have been made.
Throughout the whole long operation one
woman has watched almost every critical per-
formance—an d
there have
been thou-
sands. The
Bridge is al-
most as much
enthusiastic
Mrs. Bra d-
field’s baby
as it is her
husband’s. And
proud of it!—
if anybody
really wanted
to be shown
its fine points
at four o’clock
in, the morning
and couldn’t
see them any
other time,
one of the
Bradficlds
would some-
how manage to
be there. The bridge finished, Mrs. Brad-
field’s garden will claim more of her atten-
tion. Bhe loves her home; outside that she is
a prominent member of the Arts Club and a
good friend of the struggling young artist.
Picture from Falk.
Now the quarries at Moruya which
yielded the superb granite for the pylons and
the pillars along the approaches are almost
deserted, and the little South - Coast town
has gone back to sleep and continue its old
dreams about Cows. But there has been
stone enough broken down to build a cathe-
dral. No cathedral being likely to call for
it, hundreds of tons have been prepared for
tombstones. There is enough cut up to
record the virtues of all the politicians in
Australia for the next 100 years.
Jackson, V.C., whose bravery in one of
the battles of the Somme is recorded in
Charles Bean’s history, - went over the top
last week, his support being Jackie, his well-
loved cattle-dog. The hero’s pretty bride was
Ivy Muriel Morris, and their ■ great regret
was that the ’groom’s war-time mate, J. J.
Clasby, M.H.R., who was to have been his
best man, was lying in hospital too ill to
know anything about the wedding. William
John Jackson won his V.C. when he was
little more than 17 for saving wounded
mates under heavy shellfire. With typical
Digger thoughtfulness, immediately after his
marriage he asked the minister to offer up
prayers for the recovery of his mate, so
tragically stricken in the hour of his election
triumph.
The Hogans, of Victoria—he has a job as
Premier down that way—took a house at
Palm Beach for the holidays. If anybody
wandering along the Broken Bay side has
seen a head rising up from the ocean beach
—well, it was Mr. Hogan’s. Except the
Field divorce case he is the longest thing
Palm Beach has been greatly interested in
for a year.
Chaplain Thomas Hardy, of the Rawson
Institute, was last week called upon to
do his first marriage job at the Institute
The bride was Edith Gardi Fennell and the
’groom Hugh Maguire, chief officer of tlm
British India S.. N. Co.’s ship Shirnli
Captain Wetherby of the Shirala gave the
bride away, and little Margaret Hardy was
the bridesmaid. Officers of the Shirala and
the Nardana were there to offer congratula-
tions.
Breezes from Brisbane
The Ann-street Presbyterian kirk was gaily decked
for the marriage of Thomas Groom and Jessie
Butcher. The bridegroom is a cousin of “G B Lan
caster” the novelist; the bride is daughter of the T
E. Butchers, Kelvin Grove; both are Queensland Uni
graduates. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in ivory mariette and Chantilly lace.
Ruth and Frances Butcher and Mollie Groom ’maided
in shrimp-pink organdie with powder-blue girdles.
Pink roses and blue tulle adorned the tapestrv-iodni
at McKimmins for the feasting. The ’moon rises
on the Atherton Tablelands.
Kathleen Connolly, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. T.
P. Connolly, Toowoomba, is engaged to Harold
Walsh, son of the J. A. Walshes, of Ascot, Brisbane.
J. R. F. Zillman was married to Edith L. Fair-
fax at the Milton Congregational Church. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
ivory crepe de Chine and broidered tulle veil. Betty
Fairfax and Evelyn Gray ’maided in blue and pink
Peter Pan dimity.
At St. Giles’s Presbyterian kirk, at Bell, Eric
Davis, “Steele Rudd’s” youngest son, was married
to Katherine Bradley. W. Bradley gave his sister
away; she wore white silk Chantilly over satin
and ’broidered tulle veil. Edna Luff ’maided in
green organdie, and Heather Martin was flower girl,
in pink.
Mrs. T. D. Warner, mother-in-law of our Queens-
land Premier, was a bride of 19 when she arrived in
Queensland; her husband, later Canon Warner, was
then in charge of Roma parish, where he built the
first church. Mrs. Moore was born at Roma, and
from here her parents went to West Maitland.
Later Canon Warner was rector of St. James’s, Too-
woomba, for a dozen years. Now Canon and Mrs.
Warner live at Jondaryan, where the Premier has
built them a home.
Brisbane society still lingers largely at South-
port. The Blair lady had the lounge at the Pacific
decked with wild cherry for her bridge party to
Mesdames E. J. McGuiness, C. A. Thelander and
Clauda Munro.
The late W. A. Russell, sometime M.L.A. for
Dalby, bought Jimbour House, which cost Peter
Joshua Bell £36,000 to build, and was for many
years a show place for tourists. It was elaborately
fitted up. From dining-room to kitchen ran a tram-
way where a small dumb waiter, heated by hot water
compartments, sent the meals along the rails. The
grounds were bare in the Bell days, for the water
supply was scarce, but Russell changed all that. He
made various improvements to a house which for
many years stood empty, staring across the grassy
plains to Macalister railway station.
Tasmania talks;—
The Midland Bachelors gave a ball at Powell’s
Hall, Campbell Town, G. W. Reach doing the
secretarial spadework for a committee of 30. Quite
a big crowd of young things went up from Hobart,
while Launceston and the country districts all round
contributed guests.
The picnic sports at Bushy Park, Upper Derwent,
included cottage-garden competitions, axemen’s con-
tests, ring events, and various other attractions.
The Shoobridge family, a member of which originated j
the show in 1867, were well in evidence.
Among recently arrived mainland visitors to the
Speck are Prof, and Mrs. Angus (Sydney University),
Mrs. Moore (Brisbane) and her daughter, Mrs.
Murray, the Grant Hays, Capt. Percy Dobson and
his son, with Miss Sophy Butler, Dr. J. Bean and
Mrs. Bean, Miss Dangar, Miss Everette (principal of
Abbotsleigh Girls’ School, N.S.W.), Miss Lilian
Frost and Miss Mallarky.
Lovely summer weather helped the success of the
Brighton picnic races. Crowds of folk ran up by
car for the outing. Chairman John Swan and his
daughters were much in evidence. The Tom Lyonses’
party included Mrs. Sam Cox and Betty Giblin. Among
others present were Mrs. Bruce Gibson, Mrs. E. O.
Bisdee, the Claude Boags, Dr. and Mrs. Tom Giblin,’
Mi's. Lloyd Oldmeadow, Joi Chapman, Mrs. Colin
Kennedy and daughter Naomi, the R. A. Clives with
their son Dick and daughter Joan, Mrs. Fred Grant,
Mrs. Blackwell, Mrs. Geo. Harvey and Col. and Mrs.
Mullens.
Dr. Rosalie Gollan, only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Lachlan Gollan, Dialholme, Ulverstone, and
Dr. Graham Cumpston, of Perth (W.A.), were made
one at Holy Trinity, Ulverstone, by the Rev. J.
Bethune. The bride sported powder-blue figured
georgette, worn with a large picture hat in the
same shade. Her two ’maids, Dinah White and Meg
Smellie, were in pink and leaf-green broderie
Anglaise respectively, with big hats to match.
Festivities at the bride’s parents’ home were on a
large scale. There were some lovely pieces of old
lace and jewellery among the presents, many of them
family treasures.
Lady Yule, in her luxury yacht, the Nahlin, spent
several days in the port of Hobart, and entertained
many members of the Queen Mary and the Lyceum
Clubs. The guests had an interesting time. Among
striking features were noted the Wedgwood mantel-
piece in one room, the Lalique glass ornaments, and
the original flower designs—irises in pots in one
instance —which concealed electric bulbs.
Knight William Cullen opened the annual Straw-
berry , Feast at Ferntree, a time-honored ceremonial.
It was a race this year between the last of the
strawberries and the drought, but enough were
forthcoming to go round.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin Buildings
252 Georqe Street.
-|i S Y D N EL "Y
nr~n /• ’ "''4l <£>
A
E 2
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week>
will be one of its big attractions .
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia.
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, for 25
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other -particulars from the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
is the
years
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
The temperature for the greater part of
Saturday was up in the nineties, and there
was a hot wind, too. At the V.A.T.C. meet-
ing at Caulfield four o’clock tea came not
as a mere optional interlude but as an over-
whelming necessity. Fortunately just after-
wards the breeze turned and the mercury
fell to a bearable altitude. The attendance,
particularly in the members’ stand, was a
bit sparse. Women wore, of course, light
and diaphanous attire, and the wind frolicked
with flares and flounces, showing lingerie
not intended for exhibition. Among the
few in the committee ladies’ box were the
chairman’s wife, Mrs. Ben Chaffey, in chif-
fon figured in black, grey and white topped
by a black hat; Miss McPherson, in filmy
draperies blending russet and amber tones,,
was with her, likewise Mrs. Rogers Thom-
son, in crepe de Chine suit of brown with
a matching curling plume trailing from her
shiny straw hat. Mrs. L. Aldridge topped
her mushroom-tinted satin frock with a
blue hat, and Mrs. Moodie, who companioned
her, was in putty-colored silk with a shady
straw hat of a darker shade. The coolest-
looking women were those who sported white,
which is coming into favor again. The
charm of white chiffon was featured by Mrs.
W. J. Wearne, who added a large black hat,
and by Mrs. Phil Lock, whose three-piece
frock was topped by a white straw hat
banded with black. Mrs. James Purves,
Mrs. W. It. Burston, the Richard Lintons
and their elder son, Mr. and Mrs. A. V.
Kewney and Mrs. J. F. Nagle were others
who watched the racing.
The garden of the Hodges lady at Macedon
was the setting for a bridge party and
bazaar in aid of a Church of England
charity. Players gathered in a spreading
marquee and others wandered around admir-
ing the flowers and trees, partook of tea and
made purchases at stalls stocked with
sweets and cakes. All the society of the
Mount rallied to the happening, which was
engineered by Maisie and Beryl Cowper and
the vicar, the Rev. C. Bright Parker.
At the Fernery, Frankston, there was
dancing and bridge to help the orthopaedic
hospital. Visitors and residents came
in swarms. Gertrude Rennie, who founded
the younger folks’ auxiliary, was there in
black lace, and the president, Vera Reid,
came along in berry-red lace.
This week 100 boys culled from public
schools and industrial occupations are enjoy-
ing a holiday at Somers Camp, founded in
1929 by Lord Somers on the lines of the
Duke of York's boys’ camp. The ex-Ex. will
be much missed from the party gathered
about this part of Wes tern poll Bay, which
is really Balnarring. At this well-planned
vacation centre many jolly days have been
spent. ’Tis said that the boys allow no
one to occupy the room Lord Somers used,
and that at all meals there is am empty
chair. A new feature this year is the publi-
cation of a camp journal, which contains a
message from Lord Somers and camp songs.
The conference of the Institute of Pacific
Relations held at Shanghai recently was the
chief matter of discussion at an evening
gathering at the home of the F. W. Eggle-
stons. Knight Harrison Moore, who was
chief delegate from these parts, detailed the
happenings at the conference, and his lady
also spoke. The hostess, who wore black
lace, was aided by her daughter Jean, in
figured blue chiffon. A wealth of beautiful
flowers was used in the decoration of the
reception and supper rooms. Medical-kniglit
James Barrett and his lady, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and the Spencer lady were among
the guests.
The most comfortable people in the city
on Friday, which was hot, were those who
demonstrated the arts of swimming and div-
ing as a kick-off for Learn to Swim Week.
Crowds gathered on both banks of the Yarra
and enthusiastically applauded the men and
maidens as they engaged in water polo and
other aquatic revels. A small boy did the
Monte Cristo act, being dropped into the
river tied up in a sack, to reappear smiling
and minus the sack, The youngest swim-
mer Avas eight and the oldest deihonstrator
79.
The Westralian schoolgirls arrived on
Thursday after a roughish trip from Sydney
and put up at the Salvation Army women’s
hostel. They were given a greeting by the
president of the Federation of Mothers
Clubs, Mrs. L. Kloot, and several members,
and also by members of the School Com-
mittees’ Association. Community singing at
the Town Hall and a visit to the Botanical
Gardens were the bright spots of the visi-
tors’ first day here. On Friday they
started a round of doings with a civic recep-
tion at the Town Hall, and wound up with
a dance at the Melbourne Boys’ High School.
Parchment-toned satin is at the moment
the choice of brides, ousting from first place
the white fabrics. Ena La rkail, who was
wedded to Brian Calcutt, was so arrayed.
A veil of old lace mounted on the faintest
pink tulle blended with her sheaf of water-
lilies. Glace silk of peacli-pink tint formed
the old-world frocks of the three attendant
maids, whose fine straw hats supported pink
roses. Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Larkan, whose
home is in Stawell, put on a dance at No.
9 in celebration of their second daughter’s
nuptials.
Olive, elder daughter of the C. E. God-
freys, of Melbourne, and formerly of the
National Bank, Portarlington, was wedded
to Stanley Cook, of the teaching staff of
the Church of England Grammar School,
Geelong. The bridegroom is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. John Cook, of Newtown, Geelong.
The bride’s veil of antique Limerick lace
set off her vellum-hued lace and satin gown,
and she carried a sheaf of pink water-lilies.
Chiffon gowns of biscuit hue, traced with
a floral design in pink and blue and topped
by straw millinery, were worn by the matron
of honor and two attendant ’maids.
There was a knot-tying at the Melbourne
Church of England Grammar School Chapel,
the chief roles being taken by Evelyn, only
daughter of the T. Westons, of East St.
Kilda, and Henry, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Edgar Fullwood, of Canterbury. The bride
wore magnolia white satin and her Limerick
lace veil trailed from a cap of silver net.
Molly Ivaines was bridesmaid, in pale green
flowered ninon allied to a frilled skirt of
matching taffeta. Her hat was of the same
tint as her frock. There were rejoicings
afterwards at the Grosvenor, Toorak.
Betty Fairbairn, one of the foremost of
our feminine air pilots, daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Fairbairn, of Wooloo-
m a n t a n a,
Lara, took a
life partner
on Thursday
—Ross Grey
Smith, a law-
yer, only son
of Mrs. Grey
Smith, of
South Yarra.
Two hundred
guests assem-
bled at Christ
Church, South
Yarra, where
they we re
drafted into
pews deco-
rated with
p ink and
whit e blos-
soms a n d
in a g n o li a s.
T h e service
was fully
choral, the bonds being welded by Canon
Sutton assisted by padres Leonard Town-
send and George Pennicott. Handed over by
her brother, Jim Fairbairn, of Mt. Elephant
station, the bride looked handsome in her
25 yards of satin of the tint of the great
sheaf of magnolias she carried. The beauti-
ful material sheathed the wearer and melted
into the train. A wee coronet of orange-
buds held the plain tulle veil and a string
of pearls was the only jewellery worn. Two
pages in white satin suits with long pants
went with the train. There were eight
bridesmaids —four adults and four children
of varying ages. All were in ninon frocks
of the hue known in the trade as nude—
which is the faintest pink with a dash of
apricot. The young folks’ dresses were cut
on Kate Greenaway lines. Dainty little
glass coronets in the form of green leaves
and pink and blue flowers were worn by all.
Jean Riissell, Mary Murray, Joan Syme and
Pat Hammond were the senior ’maids, the
others being three nieces of the bride and
the br'degroom’s niece Simonette, daughter
of Judge and Mrs. Macindoe.
The wedding tea was spread at No. 9,
Major C. O. Fairbairn and Jim Fairbairn
doing the honors with Mrs. Grey Smith,
whose black georgette and lacs* gown was
relieved by a vest of ecru lace and a shoulder
spray of orchids. Her hat was of small
variety. Mrs, J. Fairbairn was there in a
frock of pale green crepe de Chine cheered
with a couple of purple orchids and a white
straw hat. Knight George Fairbairn and
his lady and Mrs. F. Fairbairn were other
relatives present. The floral decorative
scheme of the rooms ran largely to pink, and
silver aeroplanes flitted over the wedding-
cake. Am on a the hosts of beautiful presents
was an antique willow-pattern tea-service,
also a diamond clasp from Mrs. Wheatley,
the bride’s sister in England. The guests
evidently believed in letting the bridal party
have all the limelight, for there were very
few new gowns, and hats were of the plain-
est, being mostly large and simply banded
with ribbon. Mrs, Harry Whiting’s mil-
linery, with putty-colored brim and cherry-red
crown, quite overshadowed her mole georg-
ette frock. Mrs. Fred Payne was smartly
turned out in black. Other guests were the
Robert Landales, Mr. and Mrs. Neville
Armytage, Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, Mrs. R.
G. Casey, senior, Mrs. R. G. Casey, jun., and
Mrs. Charlie Lyon.
The architect who designed Christ Church,
South Yarra, must have had an inspiration
when he placed panels of stained glass in
the dome. At a certain time in the after-
noon the sun streams in and a beam of
gorgeous-hued light falls just across the
entrance to the chancel. For the Grey
Smith-Fairbairn wedding the time was just
right, and the bride as she knelt at the rails
was suffused in a roseate glow while the knot-
tying was taking place.
Mrs. Dyer achieved the feat of looking
like a fashion-plate at seven o’clock in the
morning o n
the occasion
of her arrival
by the Oron-
say. The lady,
who appeared
younger than
ever and full
of enthusiasm
after her five
years’ absence,
was in an en-
semble of blue-
grey liopsack
costume, felt
forage cap and
shoes and
stockings, all
matching. A
silver fox col-
lar chimed in
perfectly. Mr.
Dyer, known
to numerous
folk as
“Jimmy,” has also not suffered from the
lapse of years. He was surprised at the
numbers of people who had arisen early to
extend a welcome-home to himself and his
wife; among many others the members of
the Liedertafel, of which Mr. Dyer was pre-
sident for eight years, were there, with con-
ductor W. McKie, to sing a greeting. The
Dyers intend staying in Melbourne for only
three months, and during that period Mrs.
Dyer, here pictured, will take on the duties
of Gaud Mayoress for her brother, Dr.
Gengoult Smith.
Music is the hobby of both Mrs. Dyer
and her husband. In Paris the lady estab-
lished the Lyre-bird Press for the publish-
ing of rare musical compositions. The com-
plete works of the eighteenth-century French
composer Francois Couperin were the first
to be put in hand, and these will appear in
June. Another of Mrs. Dyer’s activities has
been the dissemination of information about
Australia in French schools by means of
gramophone records.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer lost no time in getting
into harness as Gaud Mayoress. On the
day of her arrival from abroad the Chatterer
found her contemplating with an approving
eye the reception suite at the Town Hall,
which will be hers for the term of her civic
reign. It is usual for these rooms to be
done over at each change of head, accord-
ing to the taste of the new Mayoress, but
Mrs. Dyer sees no reason to make altera-
tions in the cool-looking green-draped rooms.
Chatting of many things, the returned wan-
derer remarked that in Paris the well-turned-
out woman still favors- black. Charming
imitation jewellery to wear witli mourning
or half-mourning effects is made in black
glass and clear or smoky crystal. Mrs.
Dyer was wearing a- large brooch in the
form of a ring of dull white crystal hanging
from a loop of black glass mounted upon
a small mirror, the creation of the Parisian
designer Rose Adler. She is still feeling
a bit annoyed at being asked to pay duty
on £4OO worth of music by British composers,
which she presented to the public library;
however, there is a prospect of the duty
being remitted. Mrs. Dyer is a prominent
member of the Societe Les Amities Inter-
nationale, of Paris. She has charge of the
society’s musical programmes, and at her
instance, Clive Carey, who has lately been
in Australia as an examiner for the Associ-
ated Board, gavo a concert made up entirely
of British folk-songs.
The Alliance Francaise mobilised at the
Lyceum Club on Friday night to welcome
Mrs. James Dyer, their former president,
now presidente d'honneur, also Mr. Dyer.
The secretary, Mrs. W. Cockerton, in white
georgette, handed Mrs. Dyer a posy of pink
roses tied with the French colors, and the
president, Rene Vanderkelen, made a speech
of greeting. Against the Alliance’s usual rule,
English was spoken. Mrs. Dyer was in tur-
quoise-blue crgpe Romaine fashioned with a
small removable cape. Her gloves of the same
shade of kid had long tops that were traced
with rhinestones. A musical programme was
furnished by the Prockter sisters, arrayed m
powder-blue georgette, apple-green satin and
ecru lace respectively. A trio by Frank Bridge
was their first offering, with solos later by
violinist Marjorie and ’cellist Gwen. Pianist
Jean Christie played two whimsical pieces uy
E. Bloch. In the throng were Vera de
Bavay, in pink satin with a floral necklet of
deeper tinted rosebuds ; Mrs. W. Mortill, who
was a hostess of the evening and from whose
garden came many of the blossoms used in
decoration, in pink chiffon and lace with
touches of blue; Mrs. Vanderkelcn, in
chenille-embossed white georgette; Lud
Mayor Smith, Dr. and Mrs. J. C. V. Behan,
Thomas Brentnall, W. Mortill, Madame Gay,
Dr. and Mrs. Leon Jona and Mrs. Tlioroid
Harper.
Sunday, only daughter of the Arthur
Baillieus, made her second matrimonial ven-
ture at St. Paul’s Cathedral, the bridegroom
being John Reid, son of the Henry Reeds,
of Launceston. The leading lady, who had
no attendant ’maids, wore white ninon with
a large white hat. Wearing beige-pink lace
with a velvet hat of blending hue, Mrs. Clive
Baillieu gave greeting to many guests at
her home afterwards. A gown of petunia-
pink georgette, topped by a hat of a darker
tone of velvet, was sported by Mrs. Reed.
Dr. Ashton, Bishop of Grafton, and his
wife are staying in Melbourne for a few
weeks. Their son, G. Winter Ashton, and
their daughter Margaret are botli medical
practitioners in this city, and Mrs. Pen-
leigli Boyd is a sister of Mrs. Ashton, so
the visit is something of a family reunion,
Australia lias a word :
There was the usual crop of Christmas engagements,
but young people anxious to marry before Lent have
no time to lose, for February 9 is the time limit.
From January 20 society will be wearing its glad
clothes. There will be five weddings in the pic-
turesque old St. Andrew’s Church, Walkerville, in
a week.
At t-he second meeting of the S.A.J.C. there was a
capital attendance, and a crowd of guests for after-
noon tea, when chairman Whitmore Carr entertained,
with Mrs. S. J. Jacobs as acting hostess in a black
marocain ensemble and a black hat. It was a
delightfully cool day and furs were again in
evidence. Allan McFarlane won the double for
the second time with the same two horses; Mrs.
McFarlane was present, smartly gowned in a deep
rose-toned flowered chiffon over which she wore a
black marocain coat; her wide-brimmed black hat
was a baku straw.
Madge Elliott spoke in Adelaide as though the
pyjama craze was going to become general, but
such modernities have been so featured at all the
beaches that few are keen to see them further
exploited. An Adelaide girl wore a pair recently
at a dance, but as there was more material in
each leg than is required for the average skirt the
innovation wasn’t very daring.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Jolly and their daughter
Margaret have returned from a trip to Colombo and
are staying at their seaside residence at Henley
South.
Members of the Y.A.L., after their trip to West-
t.ralia, were entertained by Mrs. Angas Johnson at a
dance at the Arcadia Cafe. J. J. Simons is delighted
at the success of his new departure—taking girls on
tour. The party is quite spectacular, as the men
superintendents wear a sort of naval uniform, and
the pretty 7 gills who act as company-commanders
look particularly smart in fawn frocks, long bottle-
green cloth cloaks lined with fawn silk quite
military in cut, and green and fawn felt hats
turned up at the side. Although the boys and girls
visited Perth at the same time, the companies
travelled separately and enjoyed fraternising at the
dance.
Westralia’s note:—
Edna, elder daughter of the Richard Noble couple
and one of Perth’s most attractive maidens, has
become the affianced of Alec Gregg.
Though the Manunda has not the vast decks and
splendid appointments of a mailboat, she success-
fully spread herself for a jolly dance while tied
up at Fremantle wharf. Mrs. Arthur Jacoby, whose
auburn head was high on the committee ladder,
wore a black gown with dangles of jade cord upon
the shoulders; secretary Mrs. Edwards came in
larkspur satin ; the Hobbs lady, in sky-blue and
a glitter of silver, chaperoned a brace of daughters ;
Mrs. C. P. Smith had Betty under her mist-grey
wing; Clare Le Fanu chase a cornflower shade;
hand-made posies were scattered upon Mrs. Court-
ney’s sherry-red georgettes; Hilda Lee Steere was
in floral chiffons; Peggy Butcher fluttered moon-
beam-blue frills ; Barbara Evans tied a velvet ribbon
round the waist of her pink satin frock; tulle
insertions were wafted among Helen Inkpen’s prim-
rose taffetas; Mrs. Downer chose russet tones, and
her daughter was in black ; Betty Sewell danced in
a medley of cream and shell pink.
Mrs. W. P. Seed has gone off on a holiday to
Melbourne and Tasmania. The Cam Milne couple
and Mrs. Lang, with daughters Jean and Pat, boarded
the same steamer. Jacqueline Wright, who is on
the office staff at Government House, chose a trip
to Ceylon on the Ormonde for her vacation.
Monty Holland will wed George Kelsall this month.
In her honor Minnie Goldstein invited some friends
to drink tea and bring a gadget for the bride’s
kitchen. The hostess was in claret-shaded romaine,
and the principal guest wore a moulded garment of
navy and white check.


RADIO B BATTERIES
TORCH REFILLS’'
7\[eu) esfyetfer'--
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
Let the Perth
Make the New Year a
Happy and Prosperous
One for You.
Keen advertisers have found the big
western weekly most valuable coverage
at minimum cost, for the “Sunday
Times” is popular in every part of
the West. It is the outstanding
example of progress, and during recent
months has. increased sales by over
4000 copies weekly.
Let it be your Sunday salesman,
effectively spreading your message in
all directions, and reaching the people
who have the purchasing power.
Prosperity for you during 1932 by
advertising in the weekly with the
circulation of a daily.
sa
CBSTC
CANADIAN AUSTRALASiam
Via
AUCKLAND
IM.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If jllu.stration in' ‘.THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
SThe Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Tqw can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from:
3Thc Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
•Phone 85007. i
- Melbourne Representative:,
L. 8: MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
The White Rabbit
OSMAR E. WHITE
EXAMINES THE SOUL OF NO. 502.
COLONEL BLUETT looked up from his
papers after five minutes’ meticulous
study of a circular advertising carpet-
sweepers. It was not that Bluett had any
particular interest in carpets; but when one
is governor of a State prison one must
habitually preserve the indefinable dignity
of indifference. Conaulty, of course, was far
too used to abstraction on the part of prison
governors to be either resentful or impatient.
He merely stood motionless, save when he
shifted his weight from one leg to the other.
His face was perhaps a little more ruddy
than when Bluett had last seen him, but
otherwise he was unchanged. His hair was
still sandy, his shoulders were still hunched
with the prison hunch and his jaw was
still faintly relaxed, as if he were about to
give voice to abject apology.
“Ah,” said Bluett, smiling sardonically,
“Five-o-two again, eh?”
“Yes, sir,said Conaulty; then, encour-
aged by the governor’s apparent good humor,
“if they give mo th’ same number, sir.”
"Um,” said Bluett. “Ah, yes. Awaiting
trial, aren’t you? Well, you wanted to see
me ?”
“Yes, sir,” said Conaulty.
“In fact, you made a damned nuisance of
yourself to the warders until you did see
me. eli?”
Conaulty also permitted himself the ghost
of a smile. “Yes, sir,” he said very meekly.
Bluett looked at him sharply. One cannot,
needless to say, permit the outward signs
of humor in an institution for the punish-
ment of criminals. The spectre of Conaulty’s
smile vanished —dutifully.
“And what is your complaint?” The
governor’s voice was very chilly and official.
Conaulty scratched his thigh furtively.
“No complaint, sir. I wondered if I could
get something done for mo.”
“Ah,” said Bluett. “Cell changed? A
change of workshop?”
“No, sir.”
“Then what is it? Come on, Five-o-two,
speak up, man !”
“It’s something outside, sir.”
“You can always get the proper sort of
message to your friends,” commented Bluett
in a tone of discouragement. “There is a
solicitor appearing for you, is there not?”
Conaulty’s face was long and lugubrious.
“I’m not so sure, sir,” he said hesitantly.
“Well, what is it?”
“It’s a rabbit, sir. A—er —a white rabbit.”
Bluett knocked over, his penstand, righted
it with extreme deliberation and said: “Go
on,” in an extremely ominous voice.
“I was wonderin’, sir, if one o’ them
policemen would take him for a pet like,
sir. You see” He paused floundering.
“Yes,” said Bluett, still very wary. “You
Were wondering if a policeman might like a
white rabbit for a pet, Five-o-two.”
“He’s a good rabbit, sir,” continued
Conaulty hastily. “Best Angora buck, so
th’ dog bloke said I bought him off. I
wouldn’t like nothin’ ter happen ter the
little feller. Him an’ me was great pals,
like. He’s in a bit of a box under tb.’ house
where they copped me, and I thought, may
be, a flattie’d go ’long an’ ”
Possibly it was not until this stage of
the interview that Bluett was fully con-
vinced that Five-o-two was not playing some
peculiar, gaolbirdish joke. Indeed, he was
somewhat relieved to perceive that Five-o-
two was in earnest. ,
“A rabbit,. I "take it,” .he said-. with a
quite unprofessional jocoscness, “of ‘ some
sentimental . value to you, Five-o-two?”
Conaulty’s features never so much as
quivered. “Yes, sir,” he said woodenly.
Bluett rose and walked to the window,
looking out over the ordered garden of his
residence. Eight-nine-eight and One-eiglit-
o-three were reluctantly collecting snails
from the lupin bushes, and, under the direc-
tions of an adamantine warder, dropping
them into a bucket of > hot : water. Both
were lifers. Both had -•committed I murder.
He turned back. “You know, Five-o-two,”
he Isaid: in an almost conversational tone,
“I’m rather sorry you’re hack here again.”
Conaulty was silent. There was not even a
hint in the prison regulations as to how a
man should reply to a remark like that. Of
course, if the chaplain had —but the gov-
ernor is not the 'chaplain, most decidedly.
Still, as Bluett seemed to expect a reply,
at; last he said: “Yes, sir.”
• “When you went out last time,continued
th(> other, “you told me that I wouldn’t be
seeing you again. Of course, they all say
that, I know. But you seemed more than
ordinarily earnest about it. I didn’t expect
to see you back so soon, at any rate.”
“No, sir,” said Conaulty, almost inaudibly.
“What did you plead in the police court?
What was the charge? Shooting with intent
to murder? A row with Mondelberg, the
pawnbroker, if I remember rightly.”
“Yes, sir. I did have a cut a t th’
I mean I’m going t’ plead guilty, sir.”
Bluett was looking at him again. He
shuffled a little uneasily. “That means you’ll
do at least seven years again—er—
Conaulty.”
“Yes, sir.”
Bluett was still looking at him, imper-
sonally, in the manner of a scientist looking
at an interesting specimen. “Doesn’t it
strike you as strange,” he went on, again
in that disconcertingly normal voice, “that
you admit shooting a man with intent to
murder him, and yet you come to me with
a request to find a home for your pet
rabbit ?”
An unanswerable question. Conaulty
merely shuffled his feet.
“How did it happen that your resolution
to go straight crumpled up so soon.
Conaulty? Hasn’t half your lifetime —all
your best years—in prison taught you that
it.does not pay to go contrary to the law?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then can you tell me why you shot
Mondelberg?”
“Jake shopped me the last time, sir. Split
on the Waters job. I got six years outa
that, a ll told, sir.”
“Even if .Take Mondelberg did shop you,
surely you didn’t think you could get away
with it when you tried to kill him? Do
you think that the detectives didn’t know
of that grudge? You knew you couldn’t get
away with it!”
“I thought I might, sir.”
“Might!” Bluett’s voice rose. “You knew
damned well that there wasn’t a ten-to-one
chance. Why, you didn’t even try to . cook
up an alibi! Did. you intend-to—to have a
cut at him all those six years you were in
here over the Waters job? Were you
deliberately lying to me when you volun-
teered the information that you had had
enough of prison?”
“No, sir.”
“Are you lying now?”
“No, sir—so help me, I’m not. I did
say I was goin’ out f’r good, an’ I meant it
—then. But I was sore about that rat.
Mondelberg—sore for six years—an’ I just
had a go at him. I never meant to when I
went out, so help me, I didn’t. An’ that’s
honest, sir. I’d had enough of jug—six years
of it, all the same. Gawd, sir, but you
ought to know what I mean!”
“Well?”
Possibly Bluett should have known better
than to carry the matter any farther. Since
it is just as impossible to reason with a
man who is habitually criminal as it is to
argue with a lunatic. But this is what
Conaulty said:
“I was terrible pleased when I got out,
sir, an’ I swore t’ meself I’d never see
inside again. I said I’d go out back an’
start up a bootmaker’s business somewhere
—’cause I had enough salted down out of
th’ Waters job t’ stake me. But, some-
how or other, things didn’t go like I ex-
pected. I dunno. I felt terrible good them
first few days out, walkin’ round an’ lookin’
at th’ shops an’ gardens. But I felt sort
of queer-like. Like as if everybody was
lookin’ at ,me.' Like as if I didn’t belong.
An’ I’d got habits them six years, it was
hard .ter break, out of. More’n once T
catches meself touchin’ me cap to a trammie
or a taximan, absent-minded, on account of
them havin’ caps like screws. It’s funny
th’ way a man gets after a long stretch. And
it weren’t as if it was me first, either.
W’y, I couldn’t even step J out tli’ length of
me legs without thinkin’ about it and I
couldn’t stop callin’ men ‘sir’ when I says
‘yes’ or ‘no’ to ’em. I gets to thinkin’
everybody I speaks to must know I just
come out; and —and it sort of gets you, that,
sir! Even terbacca has no taste in it, sir.
An’ I’d been sort of lookin’ forward t,’ me,
first pipeful f’r more’n a year.' - ■
“I goes into a pub or two one day an’
downs a few, just to keep me . tail up. I
never did have much time for boozin’ other-
wise. An’ then I sees Jake Mon delberg. <
“He turns white as a-ghost when lie sees
me, th’ stinkin’ little rat ! > But all . the
same he comes over and'holds out . liis hand
an’ says how glad he is ter see me out again.
Maybe, he says, him an’ me ought to get to-
gether on account of him knowin’ a thing
or two. •: . i
“I tells him I know all about him shoppin’
me tli’ last time, an’ it’s no good him
makin’ out to be friendly. He starts whinin’
an’ sayin’ he never squealed on nobody in
all his life. It took a lot of hard thinkin’,
or I tell yon, sir, I’d ’ve had a cut at him
right there!
“You see, sir, runnin’ inter Jake Mondel-
berg like that brought it all back; and I
was so terrible lonely it got in me works.
But. I ain’t no fool. I knew if I was ter
keep out, I didn’t better get round with th’
old push, or somethin’ would just happen
one day, an’ I’d be in again, quick as cut
yer finger!
“I gets a room out Botany way, meaniu’
ter get me feet like before I steps out fer
th’ bush; but somehow I can’t get me feet
noway, on account of me bein' so terrible
lonely.
“Maybe I went inter too many pubs them
days, lint anyhow I just can’t help thinkin’
about Mondelberg an’ what a dirty, low-
down squeal he done! It eats at me. Maybe,
one day, I’d ha’ gone an’ had a cut at him,
anyhow, when I had a few in. But I’m
walkin’ up Pitt-street and I stops t’ look
at some foxy pups in a winder. That was
the first time I see me rabbit. He’s all
hunched up in a cage in a dark corner.
I’d been so terrible near to havin’ a cut at
-Jake, Mondelberg that day, it sort of gives
me a shock. He’s lookin’ awful cold ■> an’
miserable ah’ shut up, that white rabbit
—poor little feller. He’s got a pink nose
an’ lop-ears, and he’s all ; shiverin’. ' * I
thinks: ‘That might be you, Conaulty,’if you
goes and does th’ dam’.-fool.’
“Somehow I felt a bit' better that night.
“Next day I asks th’ bloke in the pup-
shop how much is th’ rabbit. He says two
quid, on account of him bein’ the best
Angora buck, even if he has lop-ears; but
in the end I beats him down ten bob and
I takes the rabbit home with me in a box
he threw in.
“Maybe you don’t know where they copped
me, sir; but back of th’ place there’s a bit
of scrub and swamp and stuff. I goes
down with th’ little bloke that evenin’, him
in th’ box, an’ I puts him down, gentle, on
th’ ground. For a while, he just looks
round, stunned sort of. And then! Up
goes' his. heels and lie’s off inter that scrub
like as if all the dawgs in the world was on
his heels.
“Nex’ day I meets Jerry Brown, down
George-strect, and he tells me I’d better
watch Mondelberg on account of his bein’
scared I’d have a cut at him. I got ter
thinkin’ about him again. wonderin’;
thinkin’ on how lie done the low-down!
Nothin’ else ter think about, somehow.
Besides—aw, I dunno. I gets pretty sliick-
ere'd th’ nex’ day, and I goes an’ takes a
shot at Mondelberg, the dirty, little rat. I’m
sorry I never finished it.”
Conaulty paused. Bluett gnawed his lip
and shrugged. True, he might have known
better than to expect either a logical or a
coherent explanation.
“All right, Five-o-two,” he said shortly.
I’ll see about it... . Oh, by the way, I
;thought you said you let that rabbit go?”
Conaulty nodded. “Yes. sir. But nex'
inornin’ I found him in th’ box, under th’
house. I s’pose he was at a loose end out
there in th’ scrub, where he belonged. It
.was terrible cold an’ dark under th’ house;
but I s’pose he sort of got used to it. eh,
,sir?”
Colonel Bluett pushed the bell button.
I-lis face was quite expressionless. The face
of a governor of a State prison.
“All right, Five-o-two. I will see about
it.” ■ ■
“Thank you, sir.”
Conaulty went back into the long, grey
corridor.
The Hearkener.
Over the coals in a dingy room,
Grey-haired and wrinkled and lone, she
cowers,
While across the street,
With dancing feet,
Youth is making the most of the flying hours.
To her come thoughts of the heyday times —
Though old in body yet young in mind,
When the world was fair,
And care, dull care,
Was a feather she tossed to the idle wind.
- As there she hearkens to over-tlie-strcet,
Her eyes light up in the gloom again
With the long dead fire
That lit desire
To a hungry flame in the hearts of men.
For her age is but a dream she dreamt,
A troublous dream that soared away,
As all dreams must soar
When night is o’er.
And the dreamer wakes at the dawn of day.
With them, the dancers across the street,
Her feet go swinging in merry mood;
And as there she sways
The music says
That the world is pleasant and youth is
good.
iA witch is she with a witch’s guile,
■A bright enchantress of all, in truth,
• As, with eyes asliine,
She quaffs the wine
.That, the gods give only to’ heedless youth.
* . * * *
O’er a fading fire in a dingy room,
Grey-haired and wrinkled and worn, she
cowers,
While across the street,
With dancing feet.
Youth is making the most of the flying
hours.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


m.
m
mu
r
mm
'•••-,
mm
Distributors for tbe
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son, ;
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
T ownsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
‘ There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!”
(TyCallums
Scots Olhiskv
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*j%ulCetCa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G 8.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin. for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia-—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-'; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ii
9
e tyv
o
0°
*> ..••••■"
\\ e *'^ c&e
aT
o 0
2
.•**


RENEW VIGOUR WITH
; . ;■
•mm
ENO
mm
m
fM
m
h,
'msmm,
mmm
§§
ill
m
■■
m
MP
lii
v\: ; : x :¥: : : ; : ; :,,:
39h
•• :•
:;;g ;
s*&s*
:X:>v: : x:;X
. ' V X*«
&
%W ,
ar.:'
M
J
r
■
M
Although many people are inclined to blame
weariness of body on to overwork or long
hours, the fault usually lies with the accumu-
lation of poisons in the blood due to unrecog-
nised constipation. You may not think you are
constipated, but Nature is warning you that
your system is not completely ridding itself of
its daily waste. Do not allow constipation to
rob you of that vigour which means real
health. Adopt the pleasant practice of taking
a sparkling glass of Eno’s “ Fruit Salt” on ris-
ing every morning, and keep your system
thoroughly free from the stagnating poisons
that are sapping your vitality. Eno has been
famous for over sixty years. Be sure you get
Eno’s “ Fruit Salt”.
t&he words &no and "‘tfruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales Agents : ‘She {British {Harold < 3. {Ritchie & Go. £td. Sydney.
Au.S
ENOS "FRUIT SAIT
