

mmm : ,
_
:ysr
; ■ .. --■<
m i
v
mmKHk
mam
&}
s***p
,_.9
■■ %*
.
&
aa •' *i
MMwfej
.
■■: ,
m.
; ;>V : £4
P*K
* . * ;
U mM
pj§iHg|
* 'C'*.'"
5 i
-’'
■
M;; z?*%KrXJ ! s
X « .:
■Hl’^
. : ‘I Wjj '
.
rri ..[ '->* *- % t
. '®S jE , jgf J|/
'...
■/
pOR the great satisfaction that
comes from a smart appear-
ance, real comfort and the happy
feeling of money well spent,
always wear a lucky AKUBRA!
HIGH QUALITY
2216
SUPER QUALITY
27/6
Silk-lined, 2/6 extra.
extra.
-
m*
The Bullletin
jI\SL Ot&ouJ'iin (OvicLae, —sB
Vol. 53.— N0. 2718.
Wednesday, March 16, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N’.S.W’., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o UR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
plance Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 . Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
S.B. 132 ’■**''*
PERFECT
HEALING
of Pimples, Eczemas ,
Rashes and All Forms of
Itching , Burning
Affections of the Skin
Bathe freely with Cntfcura
Soap and hot water, dry
gently, and apply Cnticnra
Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business! is too keen and the
struggle too tense to' SPECULATE in news-
paper space,
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
.know. Appeal to them through ‘,‘THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
■ the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily .sub-
scribers who demand an.accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings,
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street,
Cbc Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which,
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington . j Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population' as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
Soloing the Seeds of Better Business .”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Tta&de & SeZ&n^e ,
J?hvz£ Stcxlc-J, Stake,
s- Tide*, fa&eS fet
.. Surt&J. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
j)N SALE ALL STATES
' ~~1l 1 ■'■■' ■ ■ ,aa.aa.;
AUB AUSTRALIANS -visiting London
shonld read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.G.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without- charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph’* is re*
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
'■more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA'S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
' /X
.
h
MS
m®
• '
HI
:
I
LARGEST CIRCULATION ‘
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN THE WEST.
SUPREME IN COUNTRY AND
CITY.
The country circulation is superior to all
others, ’ and' the metropolitan circulation
exceeds the combined circulations of all
other principal Perth weekly papers.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
’Phone: 85690.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Sex Novels.
The word goes round periodically that
their day is done, that the new generation
wants stories about people who are interest-
ing without being naughty; but experience
invariably proves the rumor wrong. The
sex novel—meaning the kind which is
chiefly concerned with the lives of the in-
continent —seems to fulfil a deep-seated
need. From Fielding’s day onward, Eng-
land has been producing works that cause
the righteous to ask what the world is
coming to, and they have never failed to
find readers. Occasionally, as in Queen Vic-
toria’s reign, they have gone out of fashion
for a time, and the Miss Crawleys of the
period have had to fall back on French, or
Italian novels, while booksellers have
offered humbler readers “Maria Monk” or
translations of Paul de Kock; but, as a rule;
local writers of standing have met the
demand. Two novels which have just
appeared, and which are above the average
in their respective lines, illustrate the con-
trasting nethods most favored by British
writers.
The Flippant Touch
Matsu, by John Paris (Collins; 7s. 6d.), is
in the Arlen-Waugh-Huxley, or smirkingly
Satanic, vein. The author has.no morality
inhibitions. He is also free of color inhibi-
tions. Count Matsu, his hero, is a Japanese.
As an undergraduate Matsu found the mon-
astic traditions of Oxford irksome—
Matsu, seeing a pretty country cottage to let not
far from Oxford, had thought: “Here is my besso!”
and had taken it without further consideration. It
seemed such a natural thing to do. It seemed quite
natural to Matsu to instruct Hanjiro, his Japanese
servant in London, to recruit two or three girls
from the night clubs and send them down to Abing-
don for an evening’s amusement.
Brought before the Master and Fellows of
his College he entered a shocking defence
which convulsed the University. In
London
He kept a mistress in a flat in Maida Vale. This
seemed to him quite a correct thing to do, and he
vfras tired of a rather monotonous promiscuity.
Then he fell in love with exquisite Sheila
Mannifold. Sheila has been exploited, under
one high-sounding title or another, by nearly
all the modern authorities on erotics from
Arnold Bennett to Somerset Maugham. We
know r her by sight, her honey-colored hair
and svelte figure, as well .as we do. Lady
Hamilton.
The war made of her “the Angel of Audley-street,”
the loveliest girl of her generation. As a nurse in
a great base hospital in the north of France, she
learnt what life is—its joys, its sorrows, its passion-
ate intensities, its sudden calms, its queer hypo-
crisies and the reasons therefor, its cruelty, its
courage, its tendernesses. Her physical beauty and
her strange swift character were appreciated at
once by the men and women who knew her in
France, and by the end of the war her reputation
was made—for good, and evil. She was one of the
girls who counted in London society.
She fell in love with little Matsu, with his
quaint English and “creamy-brown Mon-
golian complexion,” and decided to give up
Lord Glenbrigg, the formidable shipping
profiteer who was keeping her. Not to be
outdone in self-sacrifice, Matsu made up
his mind to pension off the Maida Vale
lady, and he and Sheila were married. He
was kidnapped a few minutes after the
ceremony by friends of his own nationality
and shipped back to Japan. The rest con-
sists of a lively and obviously informed
account of the journey to Japan, via Russia,
that was made in pursuit by Sheila, her
brother, Lord Mannifold, and the discarded
mistress (travelling as Countess Matsu and
an expectant mother), who happened to be
on the train. Sheila found her husband (but
only after the ex-mistress had found and
lived with him for several days), spent
an ecstatic night in his company, and then
decided that she couldn’t stick the dulness
of Japan, and paired off with a Caucasian
of means ( not Lord Glenbrigg), who had
adored her from girlhood. Lord Mannifold
paired off with the expectant mother, and
everybody, including Matsu, was satisfied.
Novels of this kind have no relation to life.
The promiscuities which they describe are
shunned by hedonists, if for no better reason
than the one that caused Matsu to take a
mistress. Their characters are dummies
drawn from photographs in papers like the
“Tatler.” But they usually have plenty
of action, the dialogue is amusing and the
writing is good.
Tragedy
Doris Langley Moore’s A Winter’s Pas-
sion (Heinemann, 7s. 6d.) is the antithesis
of Matsu in nearly all respects. There are
only four characters, and they belong to
the middle classes. It is moral, in the
sense that the sig-
ners feel remorse
and are punished,
and humorless, and
the action is mostly
confined to the
English provinces.
The style is turgid; pages are wasted on
superfluous explanations of why so-and-so
did this or that. Yet it is a work of art
compared with the other book. The people
live; the noVelist has"known them all; and
she has watched and analysed the episode
on which her plot is based—the seduction
of a reluctant male by an over-sexed
married woman. Both Caroline, the nar-
rator, and her sister Regan, the theatrical
star, were congenital amorists. When Caro-
line married her Bradford mill-owner his
bourgeois friends were shocked by her bed-
room. It had “a fine copy of a Boucher, an
amorous subject portrayed with Consider-
able gallantry.” The bed was equally
luscious —one of those awful beds that
Hollywood gives Greta Garbo in lost-women
parts. She was expecting an infant in a
few weeks when Regan brought Francis
Lverett to call. Francis was the latest addi-
tion to Regan’s male harem; a marvel,
the answer to every nymphomaniac’s
prayer:—
He might have been the model of some, noble
artist in Mycene thousands of years ago—might, as
god or hero, have been immortaiised in many a work
of transcendent loveliness. His features his pro-
portions, his very movements all recalled the figures
of youths in festal or devotional scenes, in pictures
of battles or of games, drawn so exquisitely in the
old pagan days.
Francis is depicted with insight and gusto.
He was an under-sexed neurotic and a fool.
He didn’t want Regan when Caroline first
met him; he spent much of his leisure
brooding miserably over hife dark beauty,
which caused strangers to suspect him of
being a Dago. But Regan, an accomplished
seducer, wasn’t concerned. She explained
to her sister that when he saw her in
London with her other lovers he would
come to heel, and so the ass did. Soon he
was frantic about her, tortured by her pro-
miscuous habits. At this stage Caroline
realised that there was more than aestheti-
cism in her own admiration. Regan was
acting in New York. What, Caroline asked
herself, were her sentiments towards
Francis? She didn’t love him, she loved her
husband.
And suddenly the answer—the answer that had
been smouldering so many months in some dark
cell of my heart—leapt forth in a single flaming
word. If this wasn’t love it was—Oust!. ... Oh, it
was true. I could never ignore the fact again, for
it smote me like a lash. And yet, dreadful discovery
as it was, it had a kind of barbaric splendor.
Francis was hard to land. There, was his
passion for Regan, whom he never ceased
discussing, and he liked Caroline’s husband.
She had to work desperately for her first
kiss of passion, and the tactics she employed
between that glowing moment and his sur-
render in the Paphian bridal chamber-all
described in elaborate detail—exhibit her as
a past-mistress of the oldest of feminine
arts. A fine novel, in spite of its wordiness
and vulgarity. It has a highly edifying
moral, though it’s certainly no fare for the
moral.
RED PAGE
Ronald Ross, Satirist
[Colonel Sir Ronald Ross, doctor, poet, novelist,
mathematician, world-famous specialist in tropical
diseases and Nobel Prize winner, is about to visit
Australia at the age of 75.]
Many years ago, in some public or acade-
mic library, I read a small book of intense,
meditative verse by Ronald Ross, who at
that time was newly triumphant in his
world-shaking conquest, over the malarial
mosquito. His poems uttered a quiet
nificat, the deep joy concentrated into quat-
rains almost as puritanic in their expres-
sive simplicity as those by Bernard O’Dowd
about that date. To-day I cannot so far
find a library that has cognisance of that
remarkable book. Perhaps there are some
copies in Australia still. It must not be
forgotten, though, that there is a certain
process of attrition in such matters which
can only be countered by some human will
crying out against destruction:—
Surely a goodly thing, one worthy note,
Woul,d thus be lost for ever from the earth!
The libraries yield, however, another
verse by Ronald Ross, .a collection
ot Fables and Satires.” Written mostly in
xludibrastic couplets and triplets, these re-
morseless studies are based on necessary
indignations, often unusual in their direc-
tion Of the English, stage (circ . 1912) we
read:—
•Still, there our Shakspeare's art survives
But only for our children, wives ’
And friends we wish to give a seat to—
A benefit but not a treat to.
His verse the actors redispose,
By weak’ning rhythm, rhyme and close,
lo make it more like sense and prose.
An extremely neat summary of the Shak-
spearean actor who succeeded the filibuster-
ing type but had only “sense and prose” to
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING."—The Highest Ideal.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
Anthony Horderns'
Compare Quality for Quality and Price for Price!
n
1
i
-T
w ?
PfiJS
¥
JM
y«iii
H
1
A
£<2:
&
a*
1
§
I
■.j
ssr/j,.
==j\\
#•*533:
A V «*&
m
M
'■■■ fRS>s
>IMMGi»
fl|
p'mmsmf t
w
m:4i.£ c
c/«y
■
Mfa
|ff
i „C*.
A&U
ii
iT*ft !
Nps
f IT €
ft-: tH
7%//\l\r7
v
SzzVy
aMtUt:
::\ >*
i&vmg?'
. -1
. ■
v\W
Style 4
Style 3
Style 1
Style 2
LET YOUR FIRST CONSIDERATION BE QUALITY.
Quality determines the value of the goods you buy. Inferior goods are dear at any
price. Anthony Horderns’ quality, combined with Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices, creates that value which magnetically attracts thousands of Sydney
shoppers to the “Senior Store.’’ Compare Quality-Values listed below and
you will agree.
DOWN QUILTS
Style 1 ..... Floral Cambric
Amazing value in Down Quilts. Covered in dainty Floral Cambric. Neat
designs with one plain panel. Filled with purified feather down.
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. Anthony Horderns’ Price 21/-
Single-bed size, 6ft. x 4ft. Anthony Horderns’ Price 19/11
Style 2 . . . Downproof Sateen
Special quality Down Quilts. Covered in Floral Down-proof Sateen with one
wide plain sateen panel. Well filled with purified feather down.
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. Anthony Horderns’ Price 47/6
Single-bed size, 6ft. x 4ft. Anthony Horderns’ Price 42/6
Style 3.. 70/- Style 4. 125/-
Attractive Down Quilts. Covered in
Floral Sateen with wide plain satin
border and goffered panel. Well
filled with superior quality down.
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. —
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 70/-
Single-bed size, 6ft. x 4ft.—
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 59/6
Satin Down Quilts in the very latest
design. Plain colors with contrast-
ing plain strappings. In Rose, Blue,
Gold, Mauve and Green. Double-bed
size, Oft. x sft.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £6/5/-
BLANKETS
White “HORDURA” Blankets
White Australian Blankets.
Sizes, inches 54 x 72
Single-bed.
Full standard weight and size.
54 x7B 03 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99 90 x 108
f-bed. Double. Lge. Double. Extra Lge.
35/-
39/11
15/-
47/6
49/6
56/6 67/6
59/6
65/6
69/6
85/-
Grey Australian Blankets
(Manchestcrj First Floor. ~We Pay Carriage.)
"ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD., SYDNEY
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night
(THE SENIOR STORE)
ĥ


M
n*'
■ i' l
%/
%
it
m
n.
m
m
m
$$
&
%
/
%
GOODYEAR STAN DA R D\AL L-W EAT HER
'TYRE'
SENSATION
is setting New Standards
and Satisfaction
Good as the old All-Weather Tread Tyre was, the
New Improved Standard All-Weather is infinitely
better.
It is winning widespread acclaim for its sturdy,
trouble-free service, its greater mileage, its posi-
tive traetion, its added safety, and the dis-
tinguished style it lends to modern motor cars.
Under all conditions, it holds the road with a vice-
like grip. With this tyre your car STOPS when
you apply the brakes.
It will pay you to let a Goodyear Dealer show you
the New Improved Standard All-Weather Tread
Tyre—examine it closely. It is the tyre of super
value and sound economy. It is “the tyre sen-
sation of 1932,"
ELEVEN GREAT
IMPROVEMENTS
1 Its centre non-skid design is
cut 10 % deeper.
2 Its shoulder non-skid design is
50 % deeper.
3 Its non-skid blocks are placed
with wider grooves.
4 It has full centre traction,
eliminating the submerged
centre rib.
5 Its non-skid blocks have
slightly rounded points for
slower wear.
6 Its riding ribs are braced on
the outside, as on the latest
truck tyres.
7 Outer non-skid blocks are
braced on outer edges, as on
latest truck tyres.
8 The sidewalls are embellished
with two decorative ribs.
9 The outer non-skid blocks are
strikingly prismed into the
sidewalls.
10 In all sizes cross sections are
made equal to Heavy Duty
measurements.
11 These changes in design make
the whole tyre heavier—bigger.
1
&
B
I
i
i
1
hh
C 6 B-32
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood by Dr Marie Slopes 4/10; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 , Endurni„
Passion by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Mane Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-, The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/9; Sex Knowledge by N March [ l B ’ J "
Marriage by Scott Hall, 13/3; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, o/4 ; Secrets of Successful
Marriage’, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr, G Courtenay Beale,
10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The I , el ,', e , Ct )y , ,' -
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth
Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallicl an 6/3 Wise
Wedlock by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4, Canary
Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course d ChyMcal
Culture, 6/3; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4; The Cultuie of the
Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Biown, 5/5,
BOOMERANG
Helen Simpson’s great story has arrived.
Undoubtedly the finest achievement for years—every Library, Public and
Private, should have the book.
Price 12/6; Posted, 13/-.
Spxua i Science, by Dr. A. A. Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should Have, by
Phillip 4/6 • Knowledge a Young- Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young
Woman Should Have! bv Phillip 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely
Cuthbertson, 8/6; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public
Speaker 2/2 ; Maves’ Australian Builder’s Price Book, 15/6 ; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake,
5/4 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust b Y
2/4 - Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4 Caids for
Three by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1: Official Rules of Card Games (Hoyle Up to Date ), 2/8,
Popular Card Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings,l/5; The Book of Luck by H. G
Souter, 1/5 ; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Houses Canary Manual, 2/9 , Table
Rappin°- 2/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Yard Locks Letter Write
for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8 >
How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/- ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11 > P lv ™ b !" g ’
Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11: Furniture Repairing for Amateuis 1/11, Upholstery
for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/-,,
Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9 - ,
S* .- - v_. t_i t> a aii . Poorlv.mnflp Snppohes a/nd Toasts. 3/-,
Modern Lacquer Finishing, by r. A. Kose, b/-; nomey s zuxn oemuiy xvcu^,
Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand,
4/1- The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3; Bulietm
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2 ; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of Australian Fruit-
growing by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine, by ’ Jones
Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, -/-. ,
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess a
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Repaii
Manual 4/7' Motor Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2, rh .
Modern’ Letter Writer, 2/9 ; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; HancLreading Made Easy,
by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood-a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, Love and
Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/- ; Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on bath control,
1/8 • The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7 ; How to Mesmerise, by Ja
Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D. Weatherhead —a vital 5/5
Try the Bookstall Co. First
WHITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
offer as an improvement! There are com-
ments on English spelling:
For speech and spelling don’t agree—
Like English curates after tea.
We mispronounce our e’s and «’s
And write each sound a dozen ways,
Till strangers vow- that English is
More idiotic than Chinese.
This is balanced by an attack on the dead-
ness of mispronounced Latin in English
schools. In each case the writer knows
chapter-and-verse, though he brings only the
smallest number of properties on to the
stage; only enough to make the action
The “Fables” are used to work off such
spleen or derision as most of us have to
keep within us. Perhaps the most attractive
is frankly dedicated to Rural Magnates. It
tells how Ariel, flying to some eastern
island to seek a wreath for Miranda, en-
counters a hippopotamus, who asks for news
from Olympus Ariel knows he will be sorry
to hear: —
“Jove has the gout again to-day.”
“Why,” said the Hippopotamus,
“That ain’t no call to make a fuss;
I’ve had the same, and am no wuss.”
“ ’Tis said that Cytherea, queen
Of beauty, weds to-day at e’en
The sooty Vulcan humped and mean.”
“There,” said the Hippopotamus,
“That party I will not discuss.
She might have me and do no wuss.
.... The work I have to do you see.
But if you hear the Thund’rer sigh
For counsel, Mars for an ally,
Dian for love, I- think that I
I pray you say a word for me.”
The brevity of Ronald Ross is never due to
slightness of subject but always to concen-
tration. Frankly puzzled by the obscure
preoccupations of philosophers, he dedicates
to them a fable:—
There sat a toad upon a lawn
Lost in a dream of fancy;
His right foot in a Rose was set,
His left upon a Violet,
His paunch upon a Pansy.
....“But I profoundly pore upon
And reason, think and cogitate
And marvel, muse and meditate
Why had the ancient Mastodon
So few sad hairs upon his pate?”
If there is delightful writing in that, from
the “paunch-pansy” phrase to the vibration
of Keats in the last line, there is adequate
jiower also in some more terrible 'verses,
declaring that success comes only to the
servile and self-seeking:—
Who stands upright in Britain, falls.
He wins the prize of life who crawls.
....And where are they who bless? Unknown
Each toils in silence and alone.
His highest glory, to have none.
His widest fame, to be unknown.
By the present day the fame of this un-
known man has grown so that everyone
cries out on the darkness that has covered
him. It is a little like the case of Ambrose
Bierce:—
Oh, what a fame is mine, in every zone
A thousand critics shouting, “He’s unknown!”'
But the indignation of Ronald Ross, satirist,
is never personal, except as “The toad
beneath the harrow knows.”
NETTIE PALMER.
The Artists Go Modern
Melbourne “Herald” recently opened an
exhibition of modern art at the National
Gallery, and the academicians have been
tearing their hair and filling the air with
lamentations and forebodings ever since.
The painters are divided into warring-
camps, one saying that modern art is muck
and the other declaring that it is revela-
tion from on high. One modern thinks
that the best memorial to Alfred Felton
would be a bonfire of most of the works
purchased with his money for the Gallery,
and I agree with him. Poor John Citizen,
acting on the assumption that painters
necessarily have minds, feels the ground
slipping beneath his feet and doesn’t know
what to think.
I see no reason why anybody should get
overheated in the matter,. especially in the
present weather. I went along to inspect
the exhibition, which is hung in a very
bad light, though few moderns would object
to that. It consists of very large and very
good colored reproductions of works dating
from 1832 almost up to the present day. I
have seen some of the originals in Paris,
and I think the reproductions are quite a
fair criterion. I see no reason why they
should not be accorded the rank of works
of art. Almost everything man does is art,
even a baby’s first attempt to cross a floor.
The matter is purely relative. How much
art is there in a painting by Cezanne, Gau-
guin or Van Gogh? The question then
arises, what is art? I take it that the great
artist is simply a life-lover. Life gives him
an emotion and he wants to make it per-
manent in paint. There are degrees of love
of life. Most people love life very little.
They feel more comfortable with substi-
tutes. That is what turns Hollywood pro-
ducers into millionaires. A few painters love
life intensely. Manet loved life and the
“Herald” included him amongst the moderns,
though he is no more a modern than .was
Rembrandt or Corot. Most painters are
not life-lovers at all. They are picture-
lovers, and the pictures they love are sub-
stitutes for life.
Alma Tadema didn’t love life. He loved
certain lifeless academic formulae. Van
Gogh didn’t love life. He feared it and
it eventually drove him off his head. He
cut his ear off and sent it to a prostitute,
which is an unlikely thing for a life-lover to
do. His pictures reflect his fear of life, and
they are curiously like the pictures dear old
Victorian ladies, who couldn’t be accused of
an excessive love of life, used to execute
in wool. Gauguin hated life, and ran away
to the South Seas in an endeavor to escape
from it, though without complete success,
since there are bits of life in his best work,
though most of it could be equally well
done by a child of 10. Cezanne, the founder
of the modern school, loved life intensely,
but he was a clumsy workman without much
talent or intelligence, and never succeeded
in translating his feelings satisfactorily into
paint. Nevertheless, his worst pictures had
more life in them than the nerveless acade-
micianism of his day. Other painters came
and looked at his pictures and thought that
they were better than those of his contem-
poraries, not because of their virtues but
because of their faults. So they elevated
the faults into a new lot of conventions,
and a new academy was formed. Nothing
is funnier than to see Australian artists
solemnly turing out imitations of Cezanne
instead of trying to do what he did—look
at life. The results are just as stodgy as
the imitations of Royal Academy styles
produced with such industry at the National
Gallery school. When we come to Matisse,
Picasso and Utrillo, the more modern of the
moderns, we find nothing of Cezanne but
the formulae, and the result is very dead
indeed. Between a crude, distorted nude by
Matisse and a smooth, sophisticated one by
Charles Wheeler there is nothing to choose.
Both are equally substitutes for life.
4s a result of the “Herald’s” enterprise
a local school of moderns has been formed.
Perhaps some of them will turn cubist and
vorticist and start painting pictures with the
condiments on their breakfast table, in
accordance with the history of the move-
ment overseas. There is also an agitation
for getting Picasso, Matisse, etc., into the
national galleries. It is pointed out that
these artists’ pictures fetch fabulous prices,
though that may not count for much, since
paintings by Sir Benjamin West, P.R.A.,
who was called the “new Michael Angelo,”
fetched as much as £20,000 in his lifetime
and now aren’t worth anything at all.
Whether the next purchase of the Felton
Bequest is a Sir John Lavery .or a Matisse
does not matter at all, in terms of life.
F. S.
A Satchel of Books
The idea behind The Cross Moves East
(Allen and Unwin; 55.), by John S. Hoy-
land, a missionary, is that Gandhi-ism
derives from the New Testament: —
The fact that Satyagraha has been used, and
used with such amazing success, by a Hindu against
Christians and by an Indian against Englishmen,
must -not blind our eyes to this other. fact —that
in inspiration and largely also in practice the
movement has been a Christian thing, a reviving and
reinterpreting of the Cross.
Everyone is entitled to his opinion, but it
is questionable if, say, Gandhi’s .Civil Dis-
obedience campaign of 1930 would have been
endorsed by the Teacher who said, “Render
unto Csesar the things that are Caesar’s.”
Cressida’s First Lover (the Bodley Head;
7s. 6d.) is Jack Lindsay’s first novel. As
an attempt to show Homer’s Briseis in her
habit as she lived it isn’t a success; his
Gressid is an oncoming 1932 minx in speech,
habits and amorous technique. But it has
points as a fast-moving adventure yarn,
chockful of fights, piracies, conspiracies,
captures and escapes:. Cressid returns to
Troy after her thrilling experiences, and
finds it dull:—
“Oh, Perses,” she cried, pouting childishly, “I’m
so fed up. I’m so sick of all these people. I feel
crowded in. And the men are simply awful.”
So we may hear of her further doings in
another book.
•Jim Crow’s Brethren (Collins; 7s. 6d.)
is another one from the prolific pen of Nor-
man Wiles, an Australian, who writes more
interestingly of the Dutch and Huguenot
farmers of South Africa than any living-
novelist. Jim Crow is the generic nickname
of the native Afrikander, and his brethren
are people like young Gey van Rynhardt.
with his memories of Oxford and his passion
to raise the Kaffirs, General Wardlaw Gey’s
neighbor and their friends. Mr. Wiles’s
latest novel contains fewer horrors and
rather more romance than its predecessors.
The characterisation is as sound and the
veldt pictures are as clear-cut as usual.
And a Little Verse
CAPRICE FOR VIOLINS.
Ah, Sorrow drifts from brooding violins,
The air is heavy with a faded sweet,
And now the interweaving dance begins
With husky sound of slowly-slipping feet.
The air is laced with that enfolding sweet,
And Trojan Helen kisses Harlequin;
The halting motif captivates his feet,
Her tiger-tawny hair enraptures him.
Ah, Trojan Helen kisses Harlequin,
And slim bright fountains loop beneath
the wind,
While the soft slurring of the violin
Whispers fatality within his mind.
The tapering fountains leap beneath the
wind,
He leads her to the garden’s secrecy,
Where through the leaves, like honey strained
and thinned,
The muted music melts desirously.
They drift into the garden’s secrecy,
The tangled trees shut in the ebbing
hours;
What if they crush the sweets so recklessly?
All fair things fade —Helen, and love, and
flowers!
The tangled trees curtain the ebbing hours,
And passion pauses with the music’s
pause,
Since Harlequin recalls (ah, withering
flowers!)
The sad sarcastic face of Menelaus!
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Hesperian: Off the note this time....
-H.W.0.: Another nature inventory, with banal
remarks like
And soon the day
Will be no more.
....Rich: Sorry, you’re wrong; as poor as Lazarus.
....Elizabeth: Sugar, milk and water... .R.W. A.:
A nice quiet picture, with not quite enough dis-
tinction to push its way through. ...G.J.H.: Remem-
ber you wrote: —
I’ll beckon the angel Hope, who’ll respond
And lift me out of the Slough of Despond.
Well, now, you ask him to give you a hand out
of the w.p.b.., . .N.L.D.: “Butter” is in the pretty
postcard class, and the other is best forgotten....
L.C.R.: Its fine note of courage almost carried it.
.... Ariadna: Talks passion but doesn’t breathe it.
.... E.E.: One too declamatory; other too slight.
....Margaret M.: Not without quality, but over-
jingly with rhyme:—
And his heart was sore with the love it bore.
The babe newborn was a thing forlorn.
....Laurel P.: Your glad little stream ought to
burble pleasantly in some children’s page.... Hugh
G.: Well, thank God that’s over. Eveiy young poet
has to write it some time.... A.E.H.: No value;
little promise ..Rougasse: No market here for
that sort of thing... .N.S.: Unsuitable; technically
all right... .E.M.G.: Has dramatic quality; otherwise
not out of the ordinary.... Ancey: Dropped mighty
Thor and his hammer into the basket, and it didn’t
even wince... .Penelope: Too slight.... Edwin H.:
Ditto D.L.M.M.: It called for a second reading.
. ...J.A.K.: Still there are plenty of places besides
Heaven where a saddle would be no use nowadays.
... .E.L.P.: Dream songs don’t bring in even a pawn-
ticket these days... .1.M.L.: Glib nothings....
L.G.M.: Not badly done, but those themes call for
very fresh handling, and you don’t supply it....
Mary R.: Some good lines; but others suffer from
untidiness. .. .O’D.: No ; that’s not poetry.. . .P.T.G.:
Cry to your “faithless fair one” to return seems to us
to be a case for either the Service Department or a
“Stolen or Strayed” advt E.A.E.: Too young
for us. Try a children’s page. . . .W.M.: Some merit:
not quite enough.... Donna S.: Gipsy hearts are
now ten a penny. Try a different make... .G.X.T.:
Nothing there at a11....5.T.: Good old stodge....
E.V.8.: Pretty-pretty... .M.M.M.: The form is
right, but it seems written for the eye rather than
the ear. The triolet should be musically whimsical.
....Lugubrious L.: You seem to be an embittered
mysogynist. Worse, you rhyme execrably... .T.P.M.:
No music in your waltz. .. .J.McC.: “The wattle-
perfumed western wind may touch your sunburnt
brow,” but your verses fail to touch our sub-editorial
heart... .H.T.: “The Dance at Culley’s Creek” has
promise, but it’s a hackneyed subject. .. .Wonga:
Some poets might make a lyric out of a dripping
tap; you can’t... .Ilbilba: One stanza from “The
Inarticulate Poet” :
“Wot’s the use of all this writin’?”
Grumbled Liz to Billy Vane.
“Yer ’ands is cramped as ’ell from fightin’
Inky battles with yer brain.”
Liz seems to have hit the spot. .. .M.P.: As a
Bridge poem it’s in the infants’ class... .R.C.:
Saddening... .A.C.J.: Immature. But you’ve got
ideas and we expect you to do better... .N.J.H.: No
promise in that;' it is shapeless and unmusical....
Yexam: Yes —that’s all true; but now tell us how
it can be paid. .. .J.J.8.: Yes, but how are you
going to do it? That’s what we are all waiting
to hear.... Ellerslie: That last rhyme spoils it in
our ear. .. .Lalage: Sonnet sequence too long for its
merit... .E.G.M.: Not attractive 8.G.A.: You
have as much aptitude for blasphemous anger as a
sheep... .K.M.W.A.: —
But maybe from your heart I’ll hear a call, dear,
For wedding bells, a cottage by the sea;
Perhaps a small Patricia or a Paul, dear,
To link our lives together, you and me.
Little things like that’ll make Marie Stopes feel
pretty sick, if we know anything about it.... Ming:
You’ve a sense of rhyme and rhythm; but better
send one piece that’s been striven over than 10
splurges which merely call for rejection... .A.F.D.:
Your rhyming shows there’s nothing amiss with
your ear. Now you must find something to rhyme
about Jean P.: The idea is outworn; but there’s
a mind sensitive to atmosphere behind the verse....
8.H.5.: No G.H.: Dawg nosing his way home.
M.M.: A loser 0.E.5.: Plot common these
days... .L.0.J.: Wordy and it weakens at the end.
. ...0.H.L.: Saw the conclusion miles off. ...C.R.:
Flapperish Kell B.: Can’t find a glimmer of
poetry, even in the line you reckon outstanding....
M.H. : You ought to do better than that. But we
never before heard milking referred to as “a
lacteal sport” J. 8.: It has a certain pathos of
its own:—
There’s a chap in the country growing tobacco,
Working on shares he rather lacks dough.
He doesn’t tell a tale of woe
But cheerfully sows his seed in a row,
But now the tariff, which was for his protection
Has been altered, promises broken in every section,
Well, the chap in the country must carry on,
But he’ll have a lot less to marry on.
. ...V.S.J.: Mournful in its imbecility... .A.8.L.:
Creaky doggerel.... The Undersigned : “Life’s Wash-
out” opens passably and sags away into blither...,
Heresone: If that’s your idea of a parody, God help
you!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.R.T.: Drawing indifferent; joke as effective as
castor-oil on a graven image. .. .D.A.C.: Nothing
like him. .. .D. 8.: The most moth-eaten of all Harbor
Bridge jokes J.C.M.G.: If first attempts they are
distinctly promising. .. .M.G.8.: Sehoolgirlish... .
M.L.: Would prefer to see something original
L.L.: Stiff A.G.: Figure all out of proportion
H.G.: Tramp looks as if he had walked out of the
pages of “Punch”. .. .W.D.: Amateurish draw-
ing, and joke doesn’t help it along... .S.H.: Surely
you didn’t mean it to be taken seriously L.M.:
Ruined by too heavy treatment R.R.: Terrible
gag T.E.J.: Picture of fat lady staring at thin
gent, declined... .J.G.: Some good touches; also a
few bad ones.. . .A.N.E.: Jest was a favorite of Charles
the Second W.IC.R.: The signature is well done.
. ...H.A.: Shapeless and scratchy... .8.0’C.: Jest is
stale; drawing lamentable. ... G.N.: Wooden....
R.W.: Quite promising; strive to obtain clear and
contrasting tone values. .. .N.C.C.: It may be a
burning topic at Charters Towers, but it wouldn t
interest a man at Launceston or Fremantle
R.H.S.: Our “esteemed opinion” is that they are
unworthy of esteem W.G.: Depends on your age;
if young, you may turn out something publishable
some day.


g
g
H
I •
- 1 Wr
•Ilk:
■
v ’’X .
1
mm
gP
:> i ■;:'
,W'
m
m
1
■ X3g
il
m
Kf tllS
Hf
m
PS! vf i
*
#
illlilw
■
i
Hi
■
jm
i
H
1
f
!
im
m
i
I
5/
/
r
* >
&
c/tfaJm mefee/wondei/uikfit!


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 3718.
March 16, 1933.
THE WORLD’S SURPRISE.
“My word, Dad, see that!”
“Yes, my boy. It looks as if the world hasn’t been keeping the line about ‘honesty being the best policy in its copybooks lately."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
llox 2521IIIS; ’Phone 111011.
Victoria: IV/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 25!) Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 1\ Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : S 6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ) t s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 mouths, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id, for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for I/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE
BRIDGE.
In these tedious days the public turns
eagerly to any diversion. From that
point of view Mr. Lang and his bull are
almost a godsend; and when Mr. Lang and
Ebenezer pall, there are Mr. Whiddon and
the tin hares for a refuge. In the same spirit
Sydney has found relief in the opening of
the Bridge; but it is no truer to say that
Sydney is joyful about it than it would be
to say that Mr. Lang rejoices the com-
munity. It would be truer to say that a
great part of it sees in the undertaking
something which it knows it cannot afford,
in the interest and maintenance bill a
burden which is viewed with alarm, and in
the circumstances of its erection further
proof of the urgent need to reform our
political system.
There are always people who want some-
thing else no matter what they have; and,
politics being what they are, it, is the busi-
ness of the politician, not only to undertake
to get it, but to show how enormously
important it is that they should have it.
Upon those facts the demand for the Bridge
was built. As the ferries and the excellent
service they rendered took population to
the North Shore, the electorates grew in
number, and the cry for a bridge became
one out of which both crafty candidates and
party managers saw that political capital
could be made. Their work was the easier
because of the fact that the ferries were
in private hands; this was a company which
wa,s squeezing dividends out of a public
utility. State ownership and control were
the popular cry. We had not then realised
how these things could be prostituted to
political needs. So the demand for a bridge
grew in volume and strength, a bridge being
something which one crossed without pay-
ing a fare to anybody.
The borrowing boom then got into full
swing. Up to this time the Bridge had been
little better than the plaything of political,
candidates, in Parliament or with hopes of
getting there. We had not yet reached the
point at which the earning of interest on
the cost of a loan undertaking did not
matter. From Henry Parkes, for many
years a member for the North Side, down-
wards, politicians might make the Bridge an
election cry; but when they afterwards con-
sidered the figures, nothing was done—the
cry had served its purpose. Later, how-
ever, when it was seen that a loan could be
had for the asking, and when the more of
it a politician could get and spend in the
right direction the more friends he would
make, the Bridge became “practical poli-
tics.”
In the early days of that era we still,
nevertheless, were a little shy of talking in
millions. In 1900 the versatile gentleman
whom The Bulletin called Owe’Sullivan
because of what were then regarded as his
colossal loan projects was in office as Min-
ister for Works. He appointed a board to
report on offers for building a bridge; and
though it recommended the acceptance of
a tender at £1,940,050, the price was re-
garded as too staggering. That was at the
end of 1903. By 1924 we had mastered our
qualms. The war had taught us to talk
of millions as airily as we had before men-
tioned hundreds. The plain duty of the
politician was to have warned the public
against the inevitable crash to which the
borrowing madness led. But there was noth-
ing for the politician in that line. The
country, less subject to mob impulses than
the city, might reasonably have been ex-
pected to be a steadying influence; but it
was not. It was corrupted, too —corrupted
by scores of railway lines which should
never have been built, and for which it is
paying the penalty to-day.
There were other influences at work—•
other trickles running into the stream that
was carrying us to disaster. We had to
justify to ourselves this prodigious borrow-
ing. Well, was not this a country of
boundless natural resources, whose vast
wealth had barely been scratched, and
whose development would amply repay all
the capital employed in it? Were we
not in some mysterious way a people apart,
a people with the highest standard of living
in the world, a people whose social legisla-
tion was ahead of that of every other
country? What we did not realise, what
thousands of us will not realise to this day,
is that we were lying to ourselves—that
ours is, on the whole, a poor country, very
deficient in mountain ranges and rivers, with
a vast, area of arid land in consequence,
and afflicted by poor rainfall and frequent
droughts; that what looked like prosperity
was merely one of the results of the flood
of loan money which had been pouring in
upon us; and that, instead of being able
to sustain a standard of living higher than
any other in the world, we were dependent
upon uncertain outside markets to sustain
even a very moderate standard of living.
But while the period of swelled-head lasted
no scheme involving the use of borrowed
money was too great to be preposterous.
And then there was the bloating of the
city to help. Had we been self-contained,
had we established great manufacturing
industries, the accumulation of half, and in
some cases more than half, the population
of an entire State in its capital city would
not have been such a crime against com-
monsense. Instead of deploring this move-
ment and taking measures to counteract it,
we gloried in it; in our folly we regarded
this disproportionate growth of largely-para-
sitic cities as a sign not of weakness but
of strength. And in a pride which we had
no reason to feel we made mammoth plans
to match the mammoth bloat. The Bridge
was one of them; the still more costly
underground railway another. To-day these
things stand as monuments not so much
to our enterprise as to our improvidence
and our folly.
If we had learned our lesson, with three
holidays coming within a fortnight we
should not have proclaimed still another
for the opening of the Bridge. But instead
of it being a reminder to us that we have
lived riotously for years, so deeply mort-
gaging our patrimony that we can only
pay our debts and recover it by hard and
steady work, we seize the opportunity to
knock off work a little extra. Nor is there
any strong evidence of realisation that
the vampire city, of which this Bridge is
so complete a symbol, is sucking the life-
blood out of the suffering country. We
have not learned our lesson, many of us,
because we will not. The easy money on
which we lived riotously has gone; yet we
want to go on living riotously. Our hun-
dreds of thousands of unemployed are proof
that, without this easy money, our natural
wealth and national income are insufficient
to maintain the old standards. But we will
not face the facts; and least of all will some
of our politicians—one section of them from
pure ignorance, another because of party
expediency, a third because they see in a
national catastrophe their best hope of
overturning the present social system in
favor of what they nowadays call socialisa-
tion, but really a form of slavery, with
themselves as the slave-drivers.
THE AUSTRALIAN £.
“I believe it to be impossible for the Australian
pound to return to parity. The authorities might
reasonably try to increase its value a little in rela-
tion to sterling, but it would be just as well to
stabilise it at about its present value.’’
—Professor Gregory, of London.
To begin with, what does this mean? For
very many years after Australia acquired a
currency our £ was worth 20s. sterling.
This was in every way a simple and satis-
factory arrangement. It not only enabled
us to have shillings and pence of the same
value as English shillings and pence, but
when an amount was quoted in English
money we knew that it meant just the same
in Australian. Exchange between Aus-
tralia and England varied a little, it is true;
but £lOO lodged in an Australian bank paid
a bill for only a few shillings more or a
few shillings less than £lOO in London, the
variation being due to the temporary
abundance or scarcity of Australian funds
on the other side. This variation in funds
depended on four things: (1) The volume
of exports from Australia, (2) the volume of
imports to Australia, (3) the excess of
interest we owed abroad over interest due
to us from overseas, and (4) the volume of
loan funds abroad. During the borrowing
boom, when tens of millions were nominally
coming to Australia annually in the shape
of goods, the exchange ought to have been
in our favor; that is to say, £1 in England
should have been worth less than £1 in Aus-
tralia. But by this time our interest pay-
ments abroad were so heavy that these
borrowed millions were easily absorbed. So
there was never a surplus of Australian
funds in London, notwithstanding the huge
borrowings there.
Then a great change occurred. In 1927-28,
according to the British Department of
Overseas Trade report on Economic Con-
ditions in Australia, “the total increase
of overseas indebtedness was £54,000.000,
whereas in the following two years it aver-
aged only £1,700,000 per annum.” At
once we had to pay our foreign interest
bill with our surplus of exports over im-
ports instead of with loans. As the prices
of our exports simultaneously fell, naturally
there was not enough surplus for the pur-
pose. Then began a competition for the
money derived from the sale of exports;
and, though efforts were made for a time
to check it, mainly because the chief com-
petitor was the State, the price for Aus-
tralian money in London rose until 20s. in
Australia could buy only about 15s. 4d. in
England. This had two principal effects:
it greatly discouraged imports and equally
encouraged exports. The joint effect of
those movements was to build up Australian
funds in London, until presently the Com-
monwealth Bank, which nominally controls
the matter, reduced the exchange rate from
130 to 125. so that the 20s. in Australia,
instead of being worth only about 15s. 4d.
in London, was worth about 16s. What
Professor Gregory says in effect is that,
though we might reduce the gap between
16s. and 205., we cannot go all the way,
and had better fix our £ at not far from
where it stands to-day.
Well, if that is so we ought to be ashamed
of ourselves. It would be a perpetual
humiliation before the world. And yet it
might be worth while if we got enough out
of it to counterbalance all that. Unfortu-
nately what we might get would be mostly
the shadow of a substance. When a business
goes broke and pays 15s. in the £, it at
least is relieved of paying ss. in the £. But
if Smith owns two businesses, and one of
them goes broke, owing money to Smith
and nobody else, Smith doesn’t gain any-
thing if it pays only 15s. in the £. We
owe about 600 millions outside Australia.
We can fix our £ at 16s. or 16d. if we like;
but it will not affect our liabilities abroad
one farthing, because we owe our foreign
debt, not in Australian currency, but in
either sterling (the English part of it) or
gold (the American part). It is quite true
that we would pay our Australian debts in
the depreciated currency, just as we would
practically escape our domestic debts alto-
gether by sufficiently inflating our currency,
as the Germans did; but the country would
be not one farthing better off thereby—it
would be merely a matter of robbing one
citizen that another might be relieved of
the burden of a debt.
But why can't we bring our exchange
back to par? Why can’t we make our £
worth as much as the English £? It was
worth as much, as we have seen, until
difficulties arose in 1930. Even then, as soon
as our imports were checked, the position
began to right itself. Twelve months ago
the Commonwealth Bank held in London
2f millions. Month by month the position
has improved until last week this bank held
191 millions. Inevitably, if that money
continues to pile up in London, exchange
must fall, unless it is “pegged-” If our
surplus of exports over imports is sufficient
to pay the interest bill, our £ is worth as
much as an English £; and there is no
reason at all why our surplus of exports
should not do it. If we can do it with prices
for our staples as low as they have been
this last 12 months, we can do it always.
No doubt Professor Gregory formed a very
poor opinion of us during his visit to Aus-
tralia as an associate of Sir Otto Niemeyer.
But we are really not as bad as our politics
at about that- time might have led him to
believe.
That some of us would gain by the
depreciation of the £ is, of course, true. It
is inflation, and inflation is as profitable as
other forms of highway robbery, and much
safer than most. And it is "defended on
exactly the same grounds—that the money
is taken from those who can best spare it
and given to those who need it most. The
aigument has been worn to tatters during
the past 18 months, in the interests chiefly
of the primary producers. On their behalf
it is argued that the 25 p.c. premium they
are getting now isn’t a bonus at all—that
w ith this thrown in they are getting only
the overseas value for their goods. That
being so, they will presumably be satisfied
with payment at par so soon as our surplus
of exports will pay our overseas interest
bill. For it is certain that when that defi-
nitely happens - exchange will come to par
unless steps are taken to prevent it doing so.
The real question is whether such steps
ought to be taken. If they are taken, it
will be a manipulated exchange to benefit
one section of the community. Can that
be justified? There are arguments in its
favor. One has only to turn up the N.S.W.
“Monthly Summary of Business Statistics”
to find a strong one. Taking the average
Sydney prices for 1911 as the base (100),
then for 1931 the price for wool was 104
and foi wheat 70, whereas the price for
non-rural commodities was 180. In other
words, while in 1931 the producer of wool
got £io4 for what in 1911 he got £lOO, and
while the wheat-farmer got only £7O, both
of them had to pay £lBO for the manufac-
tured and other non-rural goods which they
could have bought for £lOO in 1911 Those
are staggering figures; and something must
be done about it—there is no escape from
that. But whether we should make a
frontal attack on costs or let them stay
where they are and try to circumvent them
by depreciating our currency is another
matter. The Bulletin’s own inclinations
are always for the frontal attack.
THE FARMER UNDER COMMUNISM.
State assistance to the Russian farmer is
no new thing. When I crossed Siberia into
Kussia m 1914 we passed trains packed with
peasants being carted into the great Czarist
colony. Interspersed with the immigrant
trains were trains loaded with American
and Australian agricultural machinery,
painted all the colors of the rainbow. Along
the line were Government-built log cabins
all exactly like each other, waiting to re-
ceive the farmers. But this vast scheme of
colonisation was based on individualism,
u ' ie settlement of the Australian
Mallee. '
The Soviet early realised that its Five-
year Plan could not succeed so long as it
left unorganised a vast peasant population
which had always been used to paternal
management. The kolhoz was a compro-
mise between State-imposed socialism and
peasant proprietorship. It was based on
voluntary enlistment: what the Soviet did
Vya lu°^ ec V a g ainst the peasants who had
giabbed the land from their former masters
a vast offensive of propaganda. The Corn-
munist party sent clouds of lecturers to
pieach to these people the virtues and
material advantages of pooling their re-
sources. They directed their persuasive
powers on the younger men, the beggars,
The .older men stuck to their
little holdings and watched the kolhoz grow
mound them with contempt and incredu-
nty, which is steadily changing to fear and
jealousy. Where there was no land to be
pooled some was provided, along with seed,
machinery and buildings. There was a
lapid and impressive gain in production,
portion of which is kept for the members,
the rest sold to the Government. Member-
ship varies from a few dozen to hundreds
cultivating huge areas and employing
trained agricultural experts and engineers,
all managed by the peasants themselves
meeting frequently and indicating their
wishes. Efficiency is encouraged by com-
petition between the various kolhozes.
The peasants of all countries are notori-
ously conservative, but the kolhoz has
already wrought vast changes. On this
point we can turn with confidence to
Maurice Hindus, the Russian-born Ameri-
can who has never lost touch with his native
land, to which ho has returned repeatedly,
lo his former study of the Soviet at Work
( .Humanity Uprooted”) he has added
Red Bread,” through Cape’s publishing
house. Like the Australian cow-farmer, the
Russian peasant was in the habit of having
large families. Ten children were an in-
surance against old age and disability. Now
tha.t the peasant’s future is guaranteed by
the kolhoz, Hindus finds that the family tends
towards the numerical ideal believed in by
Australian professional men. A moderate
thirst for culture, he says, has arisen.
Schools, libraries and theatres have arrived
in villages where such amenities used to be
regarded as unthinkable. For the illiterate
there are nightly reading circles. Political
intelligence is taking the place of super-
stitious adoration of the Little Father.
But there is another side to the pic-
ture. The peasant is grossly ignorant of
the machinery that has been dropped from
Heaven. He drives a tractor to the scene
of operations a.s if it were a sporting model,
and a conspicuous feature of the landscape
is the litter of ruined and abandoned imple-
ments.
I he Soviet’s ideal of self-sacrifice for the
Five-year Plan conflicts with the peasant’s
desire for an easy living; therefore force
has to be used, and the increasing tendency
is to make life outside the kolhoz not worth
living. Ihe koolak, or private farmer,
who, by dint of hard work and enterprise,
has acquired more wealth than his neigh-
bors, already leads a miserable existence.
His status is less than that of a professional
beggar in a capitalist and his child-
ren are treated like pariahs.
But even if the kolhoz is a success, the
Soviet will still have all its troubles before
it. The farmer is beginning to realise the
power he can wield in a country which is
90 p.c. agricultural. When the' Five-year
Plan is finished, the age-old rivalry between
agrarian 'and urban interests will keep the
Communist party’s hands full. As regards
the outside world, it is difficult to see that
Soviet economy will operate any differ-
ently from capitalist economy. There may
be bigger and bigger surpluses; if there are
they will have to be disposed of to some-
body, and that will mean more international
rivalry and scrambling for markets, and
larger and larger armies and navies to
secure the markets, and a “vigorous foreign
policy” and ice-free ports and all the rest
of it.
To teach people to make or grow things
is the easiest thing possible. To teach them
how to live better lives is the hardest.
SPASEBO.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Taxation of Posterity.
A correspondent of The Bulletin recently
put up a plea for introducing a new “dimen-
sion”—time—into the so-called science of
political economy. As this subject is not
yet a science, but merely a bundle of dis-
cordant hypotheses slenderly interspersed
with fragmentary facts, not much is likely
to be gained by adding to the dimensions it
attempts to measure. But in the very
much more practical business of politics a
great many advantages would accrue to
humanity if certain equitable and logical
rules in regard to time were introduced and
made as inflexible as the laws of the Medes
and Persians. Fundamentally there is no
reason why a Parliament or any other
legislative body should be allowed to levy
taxation for a period extending beyond its
own life. That principle is recognised to
the extent that budgets of expenditure are
prepared annually, and specific taxes are
imposed for each year. But for the protec-
tion of a democracy that is every year and
in every land where it is supposed to rule
having filched from it yet a little more of
its right to control its own affairs, the prin-
ciple that Parliamentary authority in finan-
cial matters should be limited as far as
possible to the tenure of that authority
needs to be very greatly extended.
In effect, posterity ought to be regarded
as a majority of the electorate. Its will is


EASTER
BULLETIN
Besides many Short Stories and
other holiday reading the Easter
“Bulletin” will contain an excep-
tionally fine lot of Humorous
Drawings. It will also include
special articles on the Bridge, but
they won't be the sort of bridge
articles you are tired of reading.
A HOLIDAY NUMBER
MARCH 23.
not ascertainable, so there must be no
attempt to anticipate it with irrevocable
measures. Just consider what the verdict
of to-day’s electorate in Australia would
be on the vast b,urden of financial commit-
ments placed upon its back-by the Govern-
ments of the past! If we could cut out of
that accumulation all that was unneces-
sary, all that was foolish, all that went
merely to purchase votes for some particu-
lar coterie of professional politicians, and
leave remaining only those liabilities in-
curred in conferring permanent benefit on
the community, we should not to-day be
staggering under a burden of debt so heavy
that the only legitimate aim our politics
can have in the circujnstances is to avoid
catastrophe.
Even in this dire plight, though the pro-
cess of leg-ironing posterity with foreign
loans has mercifully been stopped, the
merry game goes on. In N. S. Wales, to
take the most conspicuous Australian
instance, the desperate political gambler
who happens to be the head of the Govern-
ment is engaged in gagging through Parlia-
ment a measure quite obviously intended as
a means of dismissing the present Chief
Commissioners of Railways and of Trans-
port and replacing them with persons likely
to more docilely obey the behests of the
politician who is to be given authority over
them. The new Chief Transport Commis-
sioner is to be appointed for seven years.
At least one of the officers he is to sup-
plant, and whose office is abolished by the
proposed legislation, was also appointed for
seven years, and he has about five years of
his term yet to run. If he is thrown out
and no other provision is made for him, his
claim for heavy compensation will have to
be paid by the people of the State, just as
his predecessor’s was, and it seems inevit-
able that when next the political pendulum
swings Mr. Lang’s seven-year appointees
will find their occupations gone, and there
will be another heavy bill to pay.
The proposed rearrangement of import-
ant public services is presented, with an
impudent disregard for elementary facts,
as a means of saving the State £3,000,000
per annum. Bitter experience leads one to
fear that it will merely add to the State’s
burden. Equally bitter experience teaches
that it will be a very costly business,
apart altogether from the pensioning off of
“tall poppies,” to rearrange the rearrange-
ment. But due to a vital defect in our
laws any party having a majority in Par-
liament, however transient, can, if it wants
to, shatter all the institutions of the State
to bits, remould them to its own desire,
and then decamp, leaving succeeding genera-
tions to pay for the damage.
All the more reason, it will be said, why
the electorate should be very careful whom
it sends to Parliament. But no matter how
careful or how -well-intentioned the electo-
rate may be it has no protection against
deliberate pledge-breakers, and even more
importantly no protection against the thou-
sand and one ways in which even a scrupu-
lous Administration may finance its policy
at the cost of posterity. There is no way
of representing posterity in Parliament. A
wise nation would write into its Constitution
indelibly the principle that unrepresented
posterity cannot be taxed.
*
Our Gold Reserve.
Professor Gregory, the London economist
who co-operated with Sir Otto Niemeyer in
Australia, hit the nail squarely on the head
in his comment on the proposal to ship
the 10 millions of gold reserve still held
against the Commonwealth note issue. His
view is that put forward in The Bulletin
a week ago. Except, perhaps, psychologi-
cally, nothing is to be gained by retaining
the gold in Australia; with the country
“off” gold—that is to say, with gold no
longer payable for notes on demand —the
metal might be more usefully employed
where it could earn money. It should,
therefore, he thinks, be sold at the present
high premium in America or France, and
the proceeds put into short-call deposits
in London, the interest being used either
in paying off loans as they mature, or in
other short-term investments. At present
gold is of value to us only in making inter-
national settlements, and so far as pay-
ments in Britain are concerned they can be
made as well with the proceeds of short-
call loans as with gold. The one danger
is that, being in London, this money
might be used in other circumstances than
as a last desperate resort. So long as we
have 10 millions of gold in Australia,
held tightly in the Commonwealth Bank,
and not to be liberated except by Parlia-
ment amending the law governing our
note issue, so long are we certain of being
able to pay a foreign national debt of that
amount, or its equivalent in sterling. If
the gold is shipped out of the Common-
wealth it should be under the same control
and should not be capable of being
liberated except by order of the Common-
wealth Parliament, and then only with
the prior approval of the Board of the
Commonwealth Bank.
* .
Writing Lang Down an Ass.
The Lang mob is depriving the “S. M.
Herald” of Government advertisements be-
cause of the old paper’s politics and is boy-
cotting the “Daily Telegraph.” It is trying
to outlaw half a dozen steady-going trade-
unions and compel their members to join
organisations which are for interest default
and revolutionary strikes, and to subsidise
the Labor-Communist party. It is pursuing
with furious hatred Cleary, the Chief Com-
missioner of Railways, and has “removed’
Cramsie and Osborne, of the Meat Board,
and Garlick, of the Main Roads-Board, who,
as Commissioner of the City of Sydney,
caused inquiries to be made into the pro-
ceedings of Langster aldermen. Cleary and
a number of other front-rank officers are
marked down for destruction in the latest
Transport Bill. The members of the Public
Service Board are also in danger. They
grievously offended by recommending a
man, as in duty bound, for appointment as
Registrar of Titles, and protesting when the
Government gave the job to someone else.
The newest “arbitration” bill will take most
of their work from them.
And now the Government Statistician is
surely heading for trouble. With deadly
regularity Mr. Waites is publishing figures
which make nonsense of the Langsters’ fre-
quent boasts that things are getting better
rapidly. They assert every day or so that
the railway finances have improved pro-
digiously since they threw the motor-
’buses off the roads and made it an offence
for growers of fruit and vegetables to take
them to market themselves. But the
Statistician shows in his “Monthly Sum-
mary” that for the month of December
excess of railway revenue over working
expenses was £300,492, compared with
£297,013 in December, 1930—a difference
of only £3479, with, roughly, £250,000 of
interest to be made up (interest amounts
to about £6,630,000 p.a.), 3000 unemployed
’busmen or thereabouts to be provided for
and license fees on nearly 2000 ’buses, lor-
ries and vans lost to consolidated revenue!
Worse still is the revelation that the number
of unemployed, as estimated by the Direc-
tor of State Labor Exchanges, dropped only
5000—{.e., from 110.000 to 105,000—between
November 30 and December 31. December
is the best month for the casual city and
rural worker, as it is for the Railway
Department. On this occasion, as the Lang
newspaper gleefully reported, a fillip was
given to business by the removal of the
embargo on the withdrawal of Savings Bank
deposits; and without doubt the big shops
did much better than they had expected to
do and employed correspondingly more
labor. Yet in spite of this and in spite of
the harvest there were 25,000 more unem-
ployed on Dec. 31, 1931, than there were on
Dec. 31, 1930, and the reduction for the
month was only half of the reduction for
December, 1930, when there was no Lang
“plan.” And N.S.W. unions furnishing
figures to the Commonwealth Statistician
reported 31.5 p.c. of members unemployed
on Dec. 31 as against 31.6 p.c. on Sept. 30.
The Commonwealth Statistician is beyond
the Lang mob’s reach, but his State brother
is not. State brother might be well advised
to go away, if he is due for a holiday, and
stay away as long as he can. Outside
infatuated followers and tin-hare and pony-
racing flatterers pretty well everyone now
realises that Lang is a clumsy bluffer and
ass; but it is dangerous for a servant of
the State to set down the proofs in white
and black.
Quarantine.
Urgent as the need is for the exercise of
all possible economy in Australia’s house-
hold to-day, it is sincerely to be hoped,
in the interest of every Australian, that
the reported intention to “reorganise” the
Commonwealth Health Department will not
embody any interference with the quaran-
tine protection of the country. The in-
herent political tendency is to retrench a
few useful men on higher salary grades,
w T ith correspondingly few votes behind
them, and to make a song about “tall
poppies,” whilst refraining carefully from
lopping off superfluous masses of clerks,
who cost far more, who render no essential
service, but who make things hot for. the
politician through their political unions.
Every ship which enters an Australian port
from abroad is a possible conveyer of epi-
demic disease, plague, cholera, smallpox
or yellow fever. An outbreak of any one of
these would involve tremendous expense in
addition to loss of life and incalculable
interference with trade, traffic and progress.
Australia has built up as efficient a quaran-
tine service as any in the world, and many
times in every year it, and it only, through
its specially trained officers, stops the intro-
duction of deadly diseases from oversea.
The quarantine officers, lay and medical
alike, face bodily risks of disease, all in the
day’s work, which make a Chicago boot-
legger’s life a safe one in comparison, for
they are the people who meet and handle
the horrors from which it is their job to
protect their fellow-Australians.
Whatever overlapping there may be in
other health activities, there is none in
quarantine. It is purely a Commonwealth
matter, and the States have no legal power
to perform it. The work is highly special-
ised; modern authorities, in fact, agree that
it takes at least three years to train a doctor
to complete efficiency in it. It is not popu-
lar work with those who go down to the
sea in ships in any capacity; it attracts
very little public attention, and that mostly
hostile; it has no political value. But it
is Australia’s first line of defence against
appalling calamity.
“Insulting Language.”
Eric Campbell, the leader of the New
Guard movement in N. S. Wales, a,
colonel in the war and a city solicitor in
private life, rudely criticised Mr. Lang at
a Sydney suburban meeting, and was
malevolently charged under the Vagrancy
Act with “insulting language.” The magis-
trate seems to have stuck at the word
“scoundrel”; and, inasmuch as various
people swore they had felt insulted by the
critic’s remarks, the stipendiary magistrate
convicted and ordered a fine. On an appeal
to a Supreme Court Judge this decision
was reversed; and there the matter stands
until the next Court speaks.
The explanation of the whole matter is
that an attempt was made to apply this
measure to the sort of man to whom it was
never intended to be applied. Purposely
these vagrancy laws and their near rela-
tions have been left vague, so that almost
anything can be done under them. Here is
some man whom the police think badly of
yet cannot convict of any known crime; but
it is a cold day when “disorderly behavior,”
“offensive behavior” or “insulting language”
cannot be alleged against a man. Ihe
magistrates know the position very well,
and for the most part are quite willing to
join in the police plans. No matter what
is done there is not the shadow of a chance
of an appeal ninety-nine times out of a
hundred: this happened to be the hun-
dredth case. The result throws very grave
doubts upon the things that are done in
some of the other 99 cases.
In particular it is open to question—though,
of course, it does not arise in the Campbell
case —whether any police officer ought to be
permitted to recommend any accused person
to plead guilty. What might occur in cer-
tain circumstances can be very easily con-
ceived. A constable who has arrested a
person —perhaps under provocation—is pre-
sently not very sure of his ground. He has
made inquiries and discovers that the wit-
nesses upon whom he thought he could rely
are entirely untrustworthy. If his prisoner
sets up a defence, and the truth is told, the
Crown case will probably break down. Ihe
more unsophisticated the prisoner and the
more entitled therefore to police protection,
the easier mark he is in such circumstances.
He is advised to plead guilty; the strength
of the Crown case —often, it is to be feared,
purely mythical—is put to him; he is told
that if he pleads guilty the magistrate will
be informed that the matter is very trivial
and the fine will probably be only a few
shillings; and, to the relief of the officer, the
man pleads guilty and injustice is done once
more.
As for the offence of insulting language,
it simply should not exist in that form.
“Language calculated to provoke a breach
of the peace”—certainly; that may be an
offence. But it would be a monstrous thing
if a. man could be charged with insulting lan-
guage because he warned the public that a
political candidate was, say, a thief when,
in fact, he was a thief and he (the speaker)
was prepared to prove it. In a case of that
sort even the fact that the language was
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace
should not justify conviction. If a man
were a thief, and it was necessary or even
advisable in the public interest that others
should know he was a thief, then it ought
to be open to any man to make the charge
at a proper time and place—and, of course,
put up with the legal consequences if the
charge could not be proved. The question
then would turn upon whether the time
and place were proper for the purpose.
According to the latest reports the State
Government intends to appeal against Jus-
tice Street’s finding. It is a waste of money,
as so many appeals are. Admittedly the
position should be clarified, and the public
should know for certain what conduct is Ind
what is not an offence; but the proper
authority to determine that is the Legis-
lature and not the Courts.
♦
The New State Movement.
Dear Bulletin,— Senator Hardy, who will
take his seat next July, all being well,
says that he won’t make politics an
incurable habit, but will retire when the
great work of cutting up the States is
finished. But it will probably hang fire
indefinitely so long as Hardy and Earle
Page put first- and foremost their craze for
cutting down the tariff, and reducing the
tariff revenue, and increasing imports, and
doing damage to Australia’s secondary
industries.
Hardy recently was reported as having
declared that “the Country party must
have a country policy, and cannot support
the Nationalists any more than they can
the Labor party.” The Country party is
supposed to stand for the New State
movement, but so do many Protectionists
who are Nationalists in the sense that they
wouldn’t be seen dead along with the low-
tariff freak, and if it is proposed to make
that freak a condition of membership in
the New State party its prospects are
remote. When Hardy says that his crowd
would as soon join Labor, despite its ten-
dencies towards unification, repudiation,
inflation of the note issue and Communism,
as have anything to do with the National-
ists, who desire to promote Australian
manufactures, he shows a disposition to
throw away support which amounts to
genius. The statement that the countiy
must have a country policy is, to a great
extent, plain nonsense. The best element m
the party doesn’t want a bush policy but
a town policy—that is to say, it wants to
have habitable Australia divided into
moderate-sized States with industrial centres
as capitals.
If the leaders of the Country party suc-
ceed in identifying their big importing and
anti-manufacturing policy with the New
State programme, the New States are likely
to die young. If Dr. Page had demanded
that the subdivision of States should be
put in the front of the Government pro-
gramme, instead of sacrificing his prospects
in the hope of wrecking the tariff which
has done so much to save Australia, the
position would be better. The Common-
wealth has waited a devil of a time foi a
Ministry that would put its soul into the
New State movement, It began to have
hopes when the Country party attained the
balance of power. It lost them again when
the party pinned its faith to a silly new
tariff which, if it had arrived, would have
died within six months. The New States,
if they had arrived, would have come to
stay. They always have stayed up till now,
while tariffs have come and gone quite casu-
ally.—Yours, James Edmond.
»
The Queensland Second Chamber.
From a Queensland politician:—
The Bulletin (9/3/’32) says “Mr. Moore
was returned in 1929, with a substantial majority,
tor the express purpose of re-establishing the Leg'.
Council” ; and it complains that not a thing has
been done about it. What actually happened < was
that in his policy speech Mr. Moore said: “The
abolition of the Upper Chamber has always been a
matter of regret to a large number of people, and
I myself have certainly entertained the opinion that
such abolition has resulted in ill-considered legisla-
tion .... In addition there is the loss of stability
and confidence that abolition undoubtedly induced.
However, as this matter involves a change in the
Constitution, and as there are at least two alterna-
tive proposals which I would like considered by
the people, it is my intention in due course to
submit the question to a referendum for final
decision.” Although Mr, Moore thinks the Second
Chamber is essential to Queensland’s safety and is
prepared for that reason to pass the necessary
legislation, he is not prepared to ask anybody to
violate the promise which was made in that policy
speech.
That was in May, 1929. Nearly three years
have since elapsed, and no referendum has
been taken, although a majority of Govern-
ment supporters held—and most rightly
held in view of the policy speech—that
nothing could be done without a referen-
dum. Now the question will be mixed up with
party politics, and, though a majority could
certainly have been got for restoration any
time in 1930 or 1931, it is at least doubtful
whether one could be got now. That is
The Bulletin’s grievance against the other-
wise admirable Moore Government,
This, of course, does not at all imply
that the State would be better off without
Mr. Moore. On the contrary, its one hope
of getting the Second Chamber, indispens-
able under modern conditions, is by the
return of the Moores.
-♦
The Macleod Gallery.
The Bulletin owes a great deal to the
artists of Australia and to the public which
likes good pictures; and it is glad to have
been able to set apart a section of its new
home to their service. Circumstances
favored a long cherished project; it was
possible to construct on the sixth floor a
gallery which, because of its extraordinarily
good lighting, is capable of showing pictures
and art-craft work to the best possible
advantage. This gallery, named after
William Macleod, is 150ft. long by 40ft.
wide, and for the opening show next week
will house no less than 300 exhibits. (A
gallery on the first floor, named after
Archibald, is devoted to black-and-white
drawings, many of them by the men whom
J.F.A. himself brought to the service of
the paper.) The purpose of the Macleod
Gallery, which is to be opened on Tuesday.
March 22, is to provide a permanent place
for the exhibition and (it is hoped) sale
of the products of artists’ work, and at
the same time to broaden and deepen the
art sense of the community. Both galleries
are open free to the public, and Bulletin
readers especially are invited to Brake use
of this new service.


BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier” sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper-—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
g
£3O
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems. the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are .still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write jor a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
]l6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Exports from Australia to Russia last
year were valued at £3520. This year they
are expected to amount to whatever the
pilgrims who are going to Moscow—having
been fitted out with funds collected, or ex-
torted, from hard-up unionists —may be
worth.
It now looks as if the Yic. tote will yield
the £50,000 estimated for 1931-32. For seven
months to Feb. 29 the Treasury’s cut was
£33,170, which went to the Charities Board
for distribution. Hogan’s Government is
content with 5 p.c. Lang’s take 9 p.c., so
people who would otherwise go to the courses
(incidentally paying admittance tax) patron-
ise the s.-p. shops.
The transport confereneers headed by A. E.
Heath have embarrassed the Queensland
Government by suggesting that it should
close down a dozen hopelessly insolvent
lines. Moore can’t even say he will consider
it without giving the other side an oppor-
tunity—of which it would avail itself to the
full —of bidding for support in the affected
districts: “Vote for ‘Labor,’ and ‘Labor’ will
.save your lines and your jobs.” That’s poli-
tics as the game is played in Australia.
Silly little Ward said in the House of
Reps.:—-
The men of N.S.W. have not forgotten how to
fight.... and if'members from other States attempt
to ride roughshod over the people. .. .probably many
of the marauders will not leave the State alive.
And silly little Rae said in the Senate : :
An overwhelming majority of the people of N.S.W.
will be prepared to defy, and, if necessary, fight the
Federation. Old as I am, I would be willing to
take my place and fight to the death against tyranny.
And all because the national Government
is taking steps to enforce payment of money
due in respect of State debts taken over by
the Commonwealth in accordance with the
will of the people (the voting in N.S.W.
was 754,446 for and 415,846 against), which
“The threats of civil war uttered by Senator Rae
must be a sore trial to Senator Mooney, who, when
Rae was suspended from the service of the Senate
recently, walked out after him, saying, ‘My party,
right or wrong.’ ”
SENATOR "BLUEY": “S’pose Oi’ll have to fine
the b’ys, but, bedad, Oi’d much r-r-ather
go to the tin ha-r-res.”
debts were contracted for such things as
Sydney’s Harbor Bridge, city railway and
electrified .suburban railways. Pacifism is
the creed of the Wards and Raes as far as
foreign countries, especially Russia, are con-
cerned. It is characteristic of such pacifists
that they should thrill at the idea of fighting
their fellow-countrymen in the rottenest of
causes.
Bailey, of the A.W.U., has given the lie
direct to Lang’s newspaper, which asserted
that the boss’s unspeakable “Arbitration”
Bill “was drawn up after the fullest con-
sultation with the industrial leaders of the
workers.” “The A.W.U.,” says Bailey, “was
never consulted, nor was the Miners’ Federa-
tion, nor the Gas Employees’ Union —the.
three biggest unions in Australia. The bill
was fixed up by the Union Secretaries’
Association “experts from Goulburn-
street,” Concannon, the Minister, calls them.
By dint of all-night sittings in a vile atmo-
sphere, the improvisation of these “experts,”
shorn of some of its worst features, has been
shoved through the second-reading stage in
the Leg. Council and the Trades Hall is
fondly dwelling on the thought of the rewards
and punishments.
Lyons’s Government has got its Insurance
Bill through Parliament, thus spoiling
Lang’s plans for extorting a huge loan in
cash from companies which (the most im-
portant of them, anyway) exist for the
protection of the widows and orphans he
talks so much about. Its next duty will
be to prevent N.S.W. citizens from being
forced to join and pay tribute to Communist-
controlled unions, as proposed in Lang’s
“Arbitration Bill.” It may be possible to
secure Federal registration for the menaced
organisations, by amendment of the Com-
monwealth’s own arbitration measure or
otherwise. In any case there is no limit
to what may be done to protect honest and
law-abiding people from the tin-hare mob
by a resolute application of Section 109 of
the Constitution Act: “When a law of a
State is inconsistent with a law of the Com-
monwealth the latter shall prevail, and the
former shall, to the extent of the incon-
sistency, be invalid.”
The Financial Agreements
Enforcement Bill, its opera-
tion limited to two years, is
now law, and the national
Government is applying to
Auditor-General Cerutty
for a certificate that
N. S. Wales owes the Com-
monwealth £958,000, paid on
its behalf to the public credi-
tor after its unspeakable Gov-
ernment had defaulted at a
day’s notice, first grabbing
£243,000 advancod on the un-
derstanding that it would
meet its engagements. The
certificate obtained and pub-
lished in the “Government
Gazette,” the Treasurer may
apply to the High Court for
a declaration that the £958,000
is owing; the certificate will
be prime facie evidence and
the declaration will have the
force of a judgment. Or, by
resolution of both Houses, the
Government may anticipate
the issue of the declaration and
proceed to collect debts due
by citizens of the Common-
wealth to the State with the
defaulting Government. This
course is to be followed, and
unless Lang confesses in the
meantime that the game is up,
and acts accordingly, or un-
less he can think out some
way of remaining dishonest
and profiting by it, those of
his victims whose State in-
come tax is due will be re-
quired to pay it to the Com-
monwealth. They will dis-
charge the obligation with a
satisfaction they have never hitherto felt.
The late Peter Reidy has been succeeded
as M.14.A. for Victoria (S.A.) by Pcthe-
rick, his unsuccessful team-mate at the
general election. (There are two seats; E.
.T. Shepherd, the Labor Speaker, lias the
other.) Pethericli, an old Parliamentary
hand, won comfortably, but Corcoran, a
Digger grazier, who was supported by Pre-
mier Hill, polled well enough to suggest
that the resolutely-led Government is re-
gaining a lot of the ground it lost when
S. Aus. Labor split into three factions. On
the other hand, George Yates, who was
Adelaide’s M.11.R. for 14 years, nearly lost
his deposit. Yates stood as the nominee of
the Trades Hall cranks who expelled Hill
and liia followers ; they call themselves the
socialisation group.
The President of the German Republic is
elected for seven, years by direct vote of all
citizens, male and female, of 20 and up-
wards ; Hindenburg, now in his 85tli year,
has held the office since May 12, 1925.
When 28,234,134 out of 35,000,000-odd votes
had been counted on Sunday—the poll must
be held on a Sunday or “a day of public
rest” —the old fighting man’s score was
14,358,551, so he is sure of re-election, though
he may have to go to a second ballot. But he
is very unlikely to last out a second term,
and for Germany (and possibly the world)
it may be a case of “after Hindenburg the
deluge.” With 30 p.c. more votes to count,
Hitler, the Fascist (or Nazi), had 8,293.000,
and Thaelmann, the Communist, 3,751,550.
On Saturday, when the two Financial
Agreements bills received the Governor-
General’s assent (the second measure gives
investors in State loans the right to sue the
Commonwealth, the credit of the whole
nation having been endangered by the tin-
hare Government), Lang had £1,150,000 of
State funds removed from t*wo private banks
-—£750,000 from the Wales and £400,000
from the Commercial of Sydnej'. Having a
guilty conscience, ha evidently thought that
the national Government might at least
attach the £243.000 of which he cheated
the nation when he cheated his State’s credi-
tors. This was not intended; still, in his
hurry, the tin-hare Premier revealed (1)
that he had more than enough in hand to
pay the people he tried to bilk, to the great
injury of the nation, and (2) that he banks
with the “capitalistic institutions” which he
denounces to his mob. Yet he abused -the
Commonwealth Bank and Government for
not rushing to his assistance —unconstitu-
tionally—before he smashed his Savings
Bank.
Slang recently set up a Metropolitan Milk
Board, with the inevitable trade-union secre-
tary or organiser on it. By proclamation
“all milk supplied for consumption or use”
in Sydney and suburbs is now “vested in
the board as its absolute property,” and the
union organiser and his associates have fixed
“maximum” wholesale and retail prices and
delivery hours. The immediate result is that
people who have to look at every penny are
paying 7d. and Bd. a quart for what they
previously got for 6d. (in some districts,
5d.), and though the dairy-farmer is get-
ting more per gallon he is selling less. In-
deed, the fall in consumption may be so
great that he will be worse off than before.
Still, a stride has been taken towards social-
ism, and another union organiser has been
billeted on the public, so Slang is satisfied.
If politicians were really in earnest about
economy, Australia’s burden would be light-
ened rapidly. Moore’s Government has pro-
bably done more in this direction than any
of the others; yet the 1931-32 Queensland
estimates include £11,150 for “railway passes
to members arid ex-members and their rela-
tives,” £2250 for ex-Mjnistcrs’ life passes
and £5500 for rail concessions to public ser-
vants on leave. Nearly £20,000 a year, and
all for deadheads. And the Leg. Ass. has
a billiard-marker and a liftman in a two-
storey building, besides refreshment-room
attendants who collect £l2OO p.a. ; “Han-
sard” costs £7OOO, a “special reporting staff”
£l6OO, and the “State reporting bureau”
£9250. All really necessary reporting could
be done by contract at a quarter the cost.
Tas. Ministers and Ogilvy, the Opposition
leader, thought they saw a threat to State
rights in the emergency legislation designed
to bring Lang to book. Led by Attorney-
General Baker, the Assembly hurriedly set
aside a motion for adjournment, and unani-
mously carried a resolution imploring Lyons
to mind where he was stepping in such reck-
less haste. The House also instructed
McPhee to ask four other State Premiers to
awake and arise in defence of State .sov-
ereignty. Replies to his urgent telegrams
were politely evasive. None indicated the
faintest desire to awake or arise except to
cheer Lyons on his way to lasso Lang.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner deary,
who sacked Lang’s friend Goode after a
departmental inquiry into charges which the
Lang mob stigmatises as false, though it
refuses to refer them to a select committee,
is himself to be sacked for this and other
offences, notably liis criticisms of the swindle
of paying 48-hour wages for 44 hours’ work.
His office is to be swept away, and a Depart-
ment of Transport established, “under a re-
sponsible Minister of the Crown,” with
Goode as Chief Commissioner and seven
other Commissioners, “who will replace the
heads of branches in the Railways, Tram-
ways and Main Roads departments.” Always
provided that Lang can get his bill through
the Leg. Council. Under this plan of con-
trol by politicians and their proteges and
the trade-unions which issue orders to both
—especially the A.R.U., which belongs to
the Red International group—railway and
tramway finance will, it is alleged, be trans-
formed ; when times improve “railway opera-
tions will show a surplus.” And no doubt
there is a multitude of mugs who will be-
lieve it.
Japanese imperialism casts long shadows.
In 1922, when Nippon was smarting under
a fresh affront from the U.S.A. on the sub-
ject of immigration, the “Yomiuri,” a radi-
cal newspaper, startled diplomatic circles by
printing what it alleged was a recommenda-
tion made by the Japanese General Staff
for a progressive scheme of “national defence
lines.” The first line was to run from
Sliamsu, in the Kuriles, through the Bonins
and Formosa, making the neighboring waters
of the Pacific, the East China Sea and the
Sea of Japan into Japanese lakes. On land
the line ran through Hankow, Shantung and
Harbin to Saghalien. There were also
measures for securing control of the iron,
coal and food resources of China within
these boundaries. Shanghai was the obvious
key to the whole system. The scheme was
to operate after war broke out, but pretty
well the whole of it has now been achieved
without any interference except scented
notes from the League of Nations.
H. Cohen, the Vic. M.L.C., has returned
from a trip north with the cheering news
that Australian produce is getting more
popular in China and parts adjacent. A
big Hongkong shop was adorned with the
sign “We use only the best material—only
Australian butter.” And John Chinaman
is a good judge of a good article. And
George Julius, of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, has been saying
that “with sane dairying” Australia could
double its export of butter to England. By
“sane dairying” Mr. Julius presumably
means the systematic use of concentrated
foods to form a balanced ration, but why
doesn’t he instruct instead of railing? And
why doesn’t he mention that all the neces-
sary' concentrates, notably linseed-, peanut-,
meat- and cottonseed-meal, are now being
made in Australia?
The figures relating to motor-car imports
to Australia in the last five years tell a
remarkable story. In 1927, our maddest
year, the world unloaded on us 104,739
motor-chassis, valued at £10,602,195. In
1929, though that was the year we began
to h,ear nasty noises in our heads, we still
took 92,901, valued at just on 84 millions.
In those, three years we had tried to digest
278,635 chassis, valued at 26-J millions. Last
year we were sick enough to be satisfied with
3033, valued at a poor £244,260. But
whereas in 1927-28-29 the British manu-
facturer was able to sell us only 14 p.c. of
our requirements, last year he landed over
52 p.c. of the lot.
“And who are you, my boys?”
“We are the Newest Guard, Colonel Camp-
bell.”
“And what is your motto?”
“Silence is golden, sir.”
If the nations are full of protests against
the Sino-Jap war, some of them are turning
a pretty penny out of it. Questions in the
Commons showed that Britain had sent
£30,000 worth of arms to Japan in Decem-
ber, mostly machine-guns and parts, though
there was some high explosive. In January
the export trade dropped to £12,000.
Almost the only European manufacturers
who are out in the cold are the Ger-
mans, who are not supposed to make
war munitions in these, days, though they
are supplying staff-officers and instructors
to the Chinese. Of course, this sort
of thing happens in every war which is in
the nature of an open go. In the Boer War,
for instance, a British soldier , might be
under fire at one and the same moment
from a Krupp field-gun, a French Canet-
Schneider Long Tom and a British pom-pom.
THE WILD COLONIAL BOY (slightly modernised).
One morning as he blithely rode the Sydney side along,
A-thinking of the tin hares, and all that dead-game
throng,
Two Federal coves, who’d argued out the tactics-they’d
employ,
Came up and tried to spiflicate the Wild Colonial Boy.
“Surrender now, Jack Langster—you see we’re two to
one.
Surrender in King George’s name. The game is up.
You’re done.”
Jack drew a popgun from his belt, and shook the little
toy:
“I’ll fight, but I’ll never surrender •’ said the Wild
Colonial Boy.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
DEPARTING GUEST
“Nikko”: In a recent M.L. divorce case,
which resulted in favor of the petitioning
husband, the chief charge against the lady
was that she persisted in taking the cat to
bed with her. The gentleman indicated that
in 44 years of marriage lie had endured many
things, from jealousy to extravagance, but
the cat was the finishing touch.
* * * *
“Gustos”: Perhaps the most amazing thing
of all about this amazing Lindbergh baby
kidnapping incident is the apparent readiness
of almost everyone in the U.S.A. to contem-
plate unmoved, if not to actively abet, the
compounding of a felony by seeking to ensure
immunity for the criminals in the delivery
of their goods and the collection of their ill-
gotten gains. It is probable that most oft
us would take the same line as Lindbergh
in the same situation. But what becomes
of authority when it is prepared to_ suspend
its own laws because of the risk that
threatens a single life? And what of the
effect of this yielding attitude on the de-
testable class, obviously a growing one in
the land of millionaires, that specialises m
kidnapping the children of wealthy people
and holding them for ransom? After all, the
safety of the people is the supreme law,
not the safety of one of them, however
piecious.
“Perkin Warbeck” : The wave of hysteria
now sweeping over America as the result of
the kidnapping of Lindbergh’s infant is not
the first of its kind. A similar case, very
famous in its day but long forgotten, was
that of the abdnetion of Charley Ross, a
child who would have inherited a large for-
CERTAINLY NOT.
THE NEW CURATE: “What work do you call that, Miss Euphemi a?"
MISS EUPHEMIA : “This is invisible work.”
NEW CURATE: “Oh, but I can see it.”
MISS E.: “Yes, but you won’t.”
tune. The affair became of nation-wide im-
portance some 60 years ago. and allusions
to it in contemporary literature were
common. Charley Ross was never located,
and his fate still remains a mystery, but
many years after the happening there was
a regular outbreak of youthful aberrants
who claimed to bc the missing heir. Some
of them showed in vaudeville and dime
museums, professing to recount the story
of their experiences, but none of them was
ever able to substantiate his claim.
“Adelaide” : A South Australian S.M. has
scored a success that must surely be unique
in having a decision upheld by the Supreme
Court after it had been appealed against by
both parties to the suit. Tort Adelaide
agents received a trunk from up-country;
before the steamer arrived it was burgled
while in their storeroom. Claim for £12S;
judgment for £50. Then defendants appealed
on the ground that they should have been
found not liable; plaintiff’s grievance was
that he didn’t get judgment in full. Both
appeals were dismissed.
* =1= * *
“What d’ Ye Lack”: I was having a
drink with a warehouse manager when a
man came in and asked for a special brand
of whisky. “Sorry, we don’t stock it,” said
the liouri, “but here’s something just as
good.” The lad shook his head and walked
out. “That’s a ‘swop,’ ” said my ware-
houseman friend. Then he explained. His
first job had been as a counter hand in a
second-class Melbourne drapery shop, where
a “swop” meant a failure to sell something
to an inquiring customer, and three “swops”
in one day meant the sack. My friend
had fallen down badly on two occasions one
afternoon and he knew that the basilisk
eye of Mr. McPherson, who attended to these
matters, was on him. His next customer
proved equally hard to please, but as she
turned away he whispered: “One moment,
madam; be careful of that large person
near the doorway. He is one of the firm, but
is notorious for his objectionable attentions
to ladies.” As the customer walked out
McPherson stepped towards her and asked
in his most insinuating tones if she had
had every attention. She gazed at him in
horror for a moment and then ran shrieking
out of the shop. Said McPherson to my
friend: “Whit sort that yin’s ye were searv-
in’?” “Maad, A’m specrin,’ ” said the
other, himself a Scot. “Maad?” commented
McPherson. “Oil aye; weel. Donald, next
time ye get yin like that dinna send her
past me.”
“Farleigh”: In a capital-charge trial in
Sydney last week, the jury returned to ask
if they could bring in a verdict of “murder”
as opposed to “wilful murder.” The Judge
told them they couldn’t; murder was wilful,
Yet there is one State which has put itself
out of step with the rest of Australia, and
probably the whole British Empire, by recog-
nising in its Criminal Code a kind of
murder which isn’t wilful—a contradiction in
terms. This is Westralia, where the law
was altered a quarter of a century ago, and
jurisprudence defied, by making a verdict of
murder a sort of half-way house between
wilful murder and manslaughter. There is
no difference in the penalty, and Judges find
considerable difficulty in explaining the
inwardness of a distinction which doesn’t
exist in law ; but it has come to be under-
stood that by knocking out the “wilful” a
jury can save a murderer’s neck as effec-
tively as if they reduced his crime to man-
slaughter. He may go up for life but the
death sentence is certain to be commuted.
It’s a queer position. If there is one thing
in which there should be absolute uniformity
in a Federation it is the Criminal Code.
FATHER SHOWS A WAY OUT.
“Come on back, Father! Of all the bare-faced hussies”
“Yes; but, Mother, you don't have to look at their faces."
“Morimoto”: There was a reminiscent
irony about the Chinese attempt to blow up
Japanese warships anchored at Shanghai.
In 1913 civil war was raging round the
great Eurasian cosmopolis, and it was more
than suspected that the Japanese Govern-
ment was favorable to the rebels. A Nip-
ponese tramp ran aground near Woosung,
and by the time the harbor authorities got
on the scene its cargo, allegedly of cotton
goods, was speeding inland on the backs of
coolies. An abandoned rebel barracks I
looked into w T as full of military textbooks,
uniforms and rifles with Jap brands on
them. The rumors developed into a reason-
able certainty when a sentry on a Chinese
warship saw a motor-launch rapidly ap-
proaching with two men in it. lie opened
fire, and the crew jumped overboard. The
launch lost its way before it reached its
target. On inspection it was found to have
a pole projecting from its bow with a tor-
pedo lashed to it. The launch turned out
to have previously belonged to the Japanese
consulate in the International Settlement.
=:= * * *
“Omunbatutu” : In spite of the spread of
the white man’s civilisation and the devoted
labors of the missionaries, the
Papuan’s belief in black magic
seems likely to die hard. Two
natives from the Port 4 Moresby
country were recently convicted
of murdering one of their
acquaintance; they admitted the
killing but pleaded that he had
“magicked” the father of one of
them to death. The Judge seems
to have credited them with sin-
cerity, for the sentence was only
three years’ hard labor. It is
questionable whether the enlight-
ening influence of the white man
has not increased the practice of
magic. Some years ago the then
R.M. of the Northern Division
told in his annual report how two
eminent sorcerers of the locality
were discovered to have been in
the habit of taking apprentices,
charging a considerable premium,
much as a solicitor demands one
when a clerk 'is articled to him.
That is quite in the white man’s
vein.
*!• V
“Bloggs” : Remarkable bow cel-tain things
done by certain boys strike the public
imagination. Sydney is going mad just
now, about Lennie Gwyther, who rode
from Gippsland on bis pony to see the
Show. It went equally balmy 40-odd years
ago about Ernie Lawrence, who offered the
contents of his money-box to the funds of
the Soudan Contingent. The midshipmen
who piloted the boats at the Gallipoli Land-
ing got nearly as much publicity as the boy
drummers of the “Fore and Aft” or Jack
Cornwall, V.C. Other midshipmen did brave
deeds during the war, and weren’t heard of
by the public. I have a theory that it is
not so much the deed as the boy that attracts
attention —that some of the Gallipoli mid-
shipmen were oddities as well as heroes;
that Ernie Lawrence (Tiie Bulletin’s
“Little Boy from Manly”) was, and that
Lennie Gwyther is, an unusual youngster.
Anyone can give money to a patriotic object,
or ride a pony for a few hundred miles, but
only one in a thousand can get and keep
thousands interested in his stunt. Lindbergh
is the classic example. His flight was noth-
ing much. Several Yanks, and Lord knows
how many Britons and Aussies, have done
braver and more skilful things in ’planes
in peace and war, Lindbergh happened to
be what movie directors call a Personality
Kid, so the great American nation has been
grovelling to him ever since. There may
even be something about his 19-month-old
baby to account for its being the most-boomed
infant that w.as ever kidnapped.
* * *
“Henri S.” : The Englishman who carved
his ridiculous name all over Egypt
from Mena to Luxor over a century ago has
achieved a kind of immortality, however
infamous, being better known to thousands
of tourists to this day than the kings and
queens whose tombs he defaced. But what
on earth was the inspiration behind the
recent attack on Clark Island? It is about
the prettiest spot on Sydney Harbor. The
State has spent a small fortune planting
it with trees, building fireplaces, installing
a water supply and generally making it more
attractive for the benefit of the people who
own it. Along come some of the owners,
tear up the flowers, destroy as many trees
as possible, heave seats, etc., into the harbor
and depart leaving the place a wreck! Lom-
broso wrote that, if the Vatican were left
completely unguarded for a week, the
Romans, in spite of their pride in it, would
wreck the place. What is the explanation?
* * *
"X.S.”: A hit-and-run motorist in Mel-
bourne recently suffered a severe disillusion-
ment. He had imagined that he was under
no obligation to stop and inquire after
laying low the variety of pedestrian he en-
countered on this particular occasion.
Accelerating, he was pursued and run to
earth by another driver. The beak fined him
three pounds. The victim was a dog belong-
ing to a drover.
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —•
I see that Miss Maude Royden, who told us when
she was in Melbourne all about Birth Control and
smoked cigarettes and otherwise showed she had a
daring and Original Mind, has got an idea about
how to stop War. It seems that she and the Very
Rev. H. R. L. Shepperd and the Rev. Dr. Herbert
Gray went to a remote village in England and
spent three days in prayer and that is how they
got their Idea. Well, it seems the Idea is that as
soon as a war starts the women will form them-
selves into a human peace wall and go and throw
themselves between the combatants. Well, it seems
to me that it is a good Idea. 1 mean, if millions
of women assemble in No Man’s Land the war will
ortomatically stop. I mean, if the women are
young enough. I mean, as soon as the soldiers see
all these millions of women standing up amidst
the storm of shot and shell offering themselves up
as a willing sacrifice for peace they will insist on
the Armistice bugles being blown. Then there will
be a general hop-over all along the line and the
roar of the guns will be replaced by the sounds of
the foxtrot and the bursting of bombs by the popping
of champagne corks. I mean, soldiers are human
beings, like the rest of us. Of course, there are
difficulties. The peace army will have to provide
its own transport and if the guards stop it on the
way it may have to burrow underground or drop
on to No Man’s Land from balloons. But I see a
brigadier-general has approved of the plan, so expert
military opinion is on Miss Itoyden’s side. One
thing is certain, as soon as Miss Roydeh’s peace
wall gets known the next war, wherever it starts,
will be a World war because every country will
want to join in. Australia will certainly be there.
Next week’s Bulletin, the Easter
Number, is going to be something extra. In
addition to all the features of an ordinary
number there will be numerous short stories,
including “Quirra-Quirra,” by Katharine
Susannah Prichard, and one of the best and
brightest Edward Sorenson ever wrote; there
will be a page of verse, “Songs of Our Own
Land,” exclusively about Australia; there
will be special articles about the Bridge
quite unlike all the other articles written
about it; the underground railway system of
Sydney will be described and illustrated;
and there will be drawings by over 20 of the
leading artists of Australia. The reading
matter will be doubled; but there will be
no increase in the price.
BALLADE OF PRECEPT AND
PRACTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One query always irritates
The man of systematic brain
Who accurately calculates
What task each moment may contain ;
H'e knows full well the fruitful gain
Mnemonics bring Tiis business not,
Yet daily hears the old refrain, .
“Now, are you sure you won’t forget;?”
“System,” he says, “elucidates,
Without involving mental strain.”
His spouse such aphorisms hates;
She puts it to him, straight and plain:
“Tell Simms about that window-pane,
Two gadgets for the wireless set” —
And then, in pessimistic vein,
“Now, are you sure you won’t forget?”
His business associates
Observe with awe some swift campaign
Wherein his marshalled facts and dates
Effect a coup in zinc or grain.
But all his kudos goes in vain
To stay or still her wifely fret.
“Remember, dear, the broken drain.
“Now, are you sure you won’t forget?”
Envoy.
Prince, on his head the curse of Cain,
Upon his brow great beads of sweat,
He ponders on the home-bound train,
“What did I say I’d not forget?”
N.s.w.
AILAB MULDOON.


“Krishna”: I have seen some sympathy
expressed for Mrs. Besant because of the
failure of a potential Messiah whom she picked
and educated to live up to the honor destined
for him. Still, other founders of new creeds
or resuscitators of old ones have had no better
luck, and some have had much worse. One
of them was Smyth-Piggott, the amazing
clerical gent, who hit on a brand-new reli-
gion of his own and started to live up to it,
with himself as a modern Mahomet, in the
little Somersetshire village of Spaxton some
30-odd years ago. Piggott’s institution was
called the Agapemone, and, supported by the
contributions of numerous wealthy converts,
mostly women, it flourished like a green
bay-tree for years and indeed is still in
existence. A bride named Grace had the
high honor of being selected for the Prophet’s
consort, and their first-born was to look
after the business when the old man died.
A determined _ effort was made to educate
him up to it, but he kicked over the
traces when still in the early twenties and
insisted on going into trade. And, of all
AIMING TOO HIGH.
AUNTIE FLO: “Your uncle Hughie kissed me solemnly on the forehead after I had
accepted him. I'm afraid a lover wouldn’t do that nowadays.”
GERT: “Too true, Auntie! If a man kissed us on the brow we’d call him down.”
trades, butchering! So a younger S.-P. has
to carry on in what is left of Agapemone
tradition, while the elder one, grinning cheer-
fully over what he has escaped, hacks steaks
and chops to order and serves them over the
counter in a little west-country seaport.
* ❖ ❖ Sfc
“H.S.”: The Bulletin was right (B.
9/3/’32) about J. F. Archibald’s indiffer-
ence to politics. I was at a lunch party at
his house at Port Hacking shortly after the
war when he admitted—in fact, almost
boasted —that he didn’t know the name of
any member of the then Federal Cabinet
except Billy Hughes. He wasn’t a demo-
crat in the accepted sense, though capable
of passionate indignation at the thought of
the poor or helpless being wronged. He had
a contempt for the collective mentality of
the workers by no means behind that of
Sydney “Labor Daily.” I can see and hear
him now. one leg tied in a knot round the
other as he sat leaning forward on his stick,
cackling with scorn at universal suffrage—
“tne political robber’s most reliable weapon.”
Archibald’s idea of the best kind of govern-
ment, as many of his friends can testify, was
a benevolent dictatorship under “some broad-
minded genius like ‘Toby’ Barton.”
“Nikko” : Chinese honesty (B. 2/3/’32) ?
The managing director of a Sydney company
that owned a large rubber plantation out-
side Kuala Lumpur was anxious to get
an option over a rubber estate near
Kajang. The district officer introduced
the owner, an elderly Chinaman, who
was willing to sell at £lB,OOO, and said he
would keep the offer open for three months,
but refused to give the usual documentary
option. The day before the three months
expired, the company received a cable from
the Chinese planter asking if it still
wished to purchase. It cabled back that
it didn’t; the very same day the estate
was sold for £30,000, rubber having had an
upward bound in price. In the meantime
dozens of syndicates had approached the
Chinese owner, but the old Oriental refused
all offers until he was assured that the com-
pany to whom he had given a verbal option
would not take advantage of it.
* * S]! $
“S.T.S.”: Flinders was a Lincolnshire
man, and so was Franklin, the future Gov-
ernor of Tasmania, who was a middy on
Flinders’s ship; and exactly 130 years ago
they plastered all the s.-w corner of Spencer’s
Gulf (S.A.) with names from their home
county. It is easy to forget that there was
Boston in Lincolnshire long before the
U.S.A. made the name famous. The folks of
Port Lincoln on Boston Bay marked the
130th year by a water pilgrimage to the
monument that Franklin caused to be put
up in 1841 shortly before vanishing in an
Arctic cruise.
* * * *
“Exdig” Touching official disapproval of
the no-hat brigade (B. 24/2/’32), I believe
I am the only man at whom a special civil-
service staff-order was ever directed. This
read: “Whilst it is not desired to interfere
with the private views or actions of officers
of this department, inconvenience is caused
by those who have adopted the new idea of
dispensing with hats. The presence of his
hat upon his peg was formerly an indica-
tion that an officer was in the department,
even when absent from his own office. In
future a special wooden token will be issued to
an officer affected by this order; its presence
on his peg will be an indication that he is
in; it is to be removed when he goes out.”
I got my “wooden token” and hung it on my
peg; from that time onward I was always in
—officially—even when I was home in bed.
“Coif”: Horatio Bottomley has struggled
into the limelight in England by suing Wool-
worths for selling an American magazine
characterising him as a rogue and a swindler.
Woolworths pleaded that they retailed 2-J
million copies of periodicals yearly and
couldn’t be expected to read them all for
libels, but the jury brought in a verdict for
Horatio, giving him £5O damages. Mr. Jus-
tice Horridge, however, refused to accept the
verdict, and entered judgment for defendants
with costs, on the ground that no one had a
valid case for damages against a newsvendor
unless some reason was shown why the vendor
should not have made the sale. At the same
time, ’Sonah expressed some sympathy for
Horatio, who, having done time for the
wrongful acts alleged against him, has
received a fresh coat of paint thereby under
the Common Law.
* * # *
“Bumpk” : It is not only the visitor from
the country , who succumbs to the confidence
man in Melbourne. An otherwise normally
intelligent citizen, of some prestige in his
profession, was recently approached in
Collins-street on a Sunday morning by a
well-dressed stranger who said he had done
in his roll at the poker table and wanted
a quid to pay his fare back to the family
esfate at Reedy Dam. As security for a
loan he proffered a diamond ring to be
returned by the citizen when he°’got his
note back - The citizen said he was not a
connoisseur of precious stones. The stranger
promptly turned round and made a slash
across the plateglass window of a neighbor-
ing emporium. The scratch he left behind
satisfied the citizen, who dimly remembered
from his youth the ancient superstition that
the only thing that Avill scratch glass is a
dinkum diamond. The exchange Avas duly
made, and the citizen learnt next day that
the value of his security was approximately
five shillings retail,
* * * *
“Molls”: Among the rush of people in
England anxious to dispose of old gold and
family trinkets at enhanced prices there
Avas mentioned the other day a hard-up (or
thrifty) duke who had sold his coronet for
£15,000 cash to a Bond-street firm. No clue
was given to the embarrassed (or keenly
practical) nobleman’s identity except that
he was a seventeenth-century creation; but,
Avhoever he was, it looks as if he made
a remarkably good bargain. A ducal
coronet is not of gold; it is merely “a circle
of silver gilt surmounted by eight golden
strawberry leaves,” and there are no jewels
in it —no nobleman’s coronet contains jewels.
To nobody but a collector would such an
article be worth anything like the price men-
tioned, though one may picture a wealthy
American gloating over it among his trea-
sures. And the vendor, or his heir, should
be able to get a brand-new coronet for a
tithe of the money when the price of golden
strawberry leaves steadies a bit.
TAKING TIME BY THE FORELOCK.
"Let's get married when we grow up, shall we?”
“Yes. But grown-up people give babies such silly names. Let’s think up names for
our family now.”
“Kariah” : Many of the no-hat enthusiasts
run a far greater risk than the boss's dis-
pleasure. Nordic types are particularly sus-
ceptible to the action of the ultra-violet
component of sunlight. Maybe the ordinary
office-worker needn’t worry about it, but
constant visits to the beaches at week-
ends with the inevitable sunbaking give this
type of light-ray plenty of opportunities.
Some of the new class of road-workers
(husky young men who have lost their office
jobs and wear a minimum of clothes) are
liable to carry a big rodent-ulcer sear unless
they keep something shady on their heads
during the summer months. I know, because
I’ve had my issue.
“M. de Paris”: An interesting relic of the
days when the dictum of an old Scottish Judge,
“If ye hang a thief when
lie’s young he’ll no plague
ye when he’s auld,” was
regarded as sound doc-
trine has just been dredg-
ed up from the Thames.
This was one of the chain
cages in which outstand-
ing malefactors were ex-
posed after execution;
the patient, after being
cut down, was well soaked
in boiling tar and then
suspended from a gibbet.
Britain is dotted with the
sites of these warning
beacons, which, in the
country, were mostly de-
voted to highwaymen.
The example under notice
came from near Wapping,
and was no doubt part of
the fittings of Execution
Dock, where people exe-
cuted for piracy and
other maritime crimes
were exhibited for the
edification of the sea-
men passing up and down the river.
v »5* *!”
“Mortmain”: The far-sighted benevolence
of that eighteenth-century Bristol merchant
would have been impossible for any
Sydneyite of a century ago to, emulate (B.
9/3/’32). In the interval the Thellusson Act
of 1800 had been passed. In 1797 Peter
Thellusson, a wealthy Londoner, left over
half a million to accumulate during the
lives of his three sons and also during the
lives of their sons —the fund to go, at the
expiration of that period, to his eldest lineal
male descendant. The Courts didn’t inter-
fere with the will —although in the end the
unborn legatee got less out of it than the
lawyers—but Parliament effectively blocked
any further testamentary dispositions of that
sort. The Thellusson Act laid it down that
no future testator should devise his property
for purposes of accumulation for longer than
21 years after his death.
* * * «
“Si Anu”: According to a cable the
Dayang Muda, wife of the heir-presumptive
to Sir Charles Brooke, Rajah of Sarawak,
has been converted to Islam. She had
previously sampled Protestantism, Christian
Science and Roman Catholicism. To make
her conversion more impressive the lady
staged it in mid-air while flying in an aero-
plane over Paris. She is a daughter of a
wealthy London merchant who left her a
quarter of a million. The impression is that
the Brooke dynasty is going the way of
most autocracies and getting into tiro hands
of unadulterated frivolity. The first Brooke
went into Borneo and carved out his patri-
mony singlehanded. He had to pit his brains
against the malice fear and hatred of Malay
sultans, and frequently drank their coffee
without batting an eyelid although there
was a reasonable suspicion’that it might be
poisoned. I knew the second Rajah, who
was Brooke’s nephew, but shared his uncle’s
simplicity of character and indomitable reso-
lution. He put down head-hunting by lead-
ing one tribe of skull-takers against another,
and, although he did not get his pitcher in
the papers, he earned much abuse from Eng-
lish traders Avho had found chaos in Borneo
more profitable than order. His method of
his officers was to send out youths
from his own county of Devon to an isolated
district, and then call on them and converse
with them in the local dialect. The third
Rajah pays only occasional visits to his
fascinating estate, the management of which
has been taken out of his hands by a bril-
liant civil service. It is the fate of auto-
cratic dynasties to become effete, and future
rajahs will no doubt find it more and more
difficult to give up the delights of a London
season to brave the perils of life in Borneo,
especially when they can learn all about it
it from ITollywooden talkies like “East of
Borneo.”
* * * *
“Amburagi” : I note that Aimee McPher-
son, the Californian female evangelist who
calls herself “the Four-square Gospeller,”
has announced on departing on her latest
honeymoon that when she gets back she
intends to convert all tropical natives by
radio. While giving the flame-headed Aimee
full credit for apostolic fervor I venture to
suggest that she will need a gift of all the
tongues- of the Pentecost if she is going to
make a payable “prahpasition” of her latest
notion. Putting aside'the countless differing
languages of tropical Asia, I should like to
introduce Aimee to a mere 150 miles of
coastline in British New Guinea, where,
like Kipling’s Jobson, “I used to lie.” Every
few miles along that coast can be found
peoples speaking utterly unassociated
tongues, with sub-dialects innumerable, but
none I ever came in contact with could
speak Yankee. Even as it is the whole
coast is thick with missionaries already, and
if they don’t find means to “jamb” Aimee’s
broadcasts then I don’t know missionaries
when up against a rival gospeller.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: At a house party recently the
Mayoress of Melbourne envisaged a scheme
whereby gramophone records, prepared by a
committee of distinguished musicians,
scientists and psychologists, will be distri-
buted to Australian schools free. The hand-
some offer emanates from a semi-official
body in Paris. Later it is proposed to
include contributions from other countries
and eventually there will be a world-wide
exchange. The records will consist of French
music and talks on literature, art, science,
the drama and topics of the day. Some
people with a picture-theatre complex got
up and complained that the subjects would
be of small interest to many pupils in
secondary schools. There is also the danger
that they might undermine tne appreciation
of others for American films.
* * * *
Nicholas Lockyer writes :
There are some inaccuracies in “Ootacarra’s” para-
graph on the first settlement in Westralia (B.
2/3/’32). The flag was hoisted by Major Edmund
Lockyer on 21st January, 1827 (not Christmas Bay,
1826), at King George's Sound, in assertion of the
first official claim by the British Government to
possession over the whole continent of Australia.
It was not a penal establishment. The few convicts
who accompanied the expedition were taken as
laborers and servants. The settlement was not “aban-
doned” in 1831, and the statement that it was
abandoned because the Swan River people objected
to the presence of a convict establishment within
their territory has no foundation, simply because
there was no such establishment. No convicts were
ever transported there. The settlement, though
suffering some vicissitudes in its early years, has
been continuous from 21st January, 1827, to the
present time. I may add that Major Lockyer was
an officer of the 57th Regiment, not the 59th.
ODE TO TERBACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Forde said that the excise duty of 4s. 6d. a
pound would merely play into the hands of the
tobacco Mr. Prowse stigmatised the Gov-
ernment’s action as a wicked and sad betrayal of
the Australian tobacco-grower.”
Thou, on whom any attack
Makes Forde’s young brow grow black
And that of Gloomy Jack
Prowse even blacker,
Sit tight! Go on being sown!
; You’ll come into your own
Some day, our native-grown
Austral terbacker.
I’ve always had a yearn
Your shredded leaves to burn;
Too long you’ve lagged astern
The stuff they’ve shipped us.
The vilest slur they placed
On you is long effaced,
Viz., that you’d always taste
Of eucalyptus.
Confound this darned excise
That makes the danders rise
And gets the goats of guys
’Neath Page’s banner!
Such impost, like a shot,
Would send your biz. to pot.
Oh, but it’s hot, red-hot—
Four and a tanner!
Knuts may disdain to puff
Aught but imported stuff.
It makes me mad, their guff.
Why, strike me lucky!
When they their duty do
We’ll yet see Texas (Q.)
Put Cuba up the flue
And knock Kentucky.
What lover of his land
But, for your sake, to stand
A change of blend and brand
Would prove unwilling?
Name of a pipe! Not 1.
The ounce I once could buy
For fourpence-halfpenny
Now costs a shilling.
“Thou who, when woes attack”—
To pile upon your back
Four bob and eke a zack! ■
Fresh woes would grow 50....
And what about a free
And frank apology
For this to “C.S.C.”?
Yes, I suppose so.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE MACLEOD
GALLERY
SIXTH FLOOR,
BULLETIN BUILDING,
will be opened by the Lord Mayor of
Sydney at 3 o’clock on Tuesday,
March 22. The exhibits will be on
view from 2 o’clock on that day.
“The Bulletin” cordially invites
readers to visit this gallery, which has
been established as a memorial to
William Macleod, for 30 years art
editor of this paper, and its first artist.
This first exhibition will consist of
300 of the works of all the best-
known Australian artists in oils and
water-colors and every other form of
pictorial art.
The gallery is under the direction
of G. V. F. Mann, late Director of
the National Gallery of N. S. Wales.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ~
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life,
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock —Wheels manufactured to suit requirements
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINCHuuSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
PERIONAL
ITEMS
The average age of the heads of Aus-
tralian Governments works out at exactly
54. Mitchell has a longish lead with bo
years • Moore conies next with 56; then
follow’ Lang (55), McPhee (53), Lyons
152), Hill (50) and Hogan (47). Lang,
Hogan, Mitchell and Hill are all products
of their respective States; Moore s birth-
place was Maoriland and McPhee’s \ ictoria.
In the matter of ages Opposition leaders
(four of whom are ex-Premiers) .show just
about the same average: Argyle is 64, Col-
lier 58, Bavin 57, Seullin 55, Butler 4< and
Ogilvie 41. Forgan Smith’s date is the only
one missing from the reference books.
The Landlords’ Union ought to present
Miss Trickett, of Lansdowne-street, East
Melbourne, with a long-service medal. She
has been the tenant of the same house tor
70 years. Her brother Oliver charted the
Jenolan Caves.
C. E. Goldsmith, manager of the Savings
Bank of S.A., has received presents and com-
pliments on completing half a century in
the. bank. He has seen the staff grow from
10 to 262, the funds from li millions to 20,
and the accounts from 42,000 to over half
a million —which is 86 per cent, of the
State’s population.
“From the comrades of the Parliamentary
Labor party to Comrade the Hon. E. J.
Hogan, Premier of Victoria,” was the pre-
amble to an illuminated address which an
enfeebled Long Ned took away with him on
his health trip to England. The recipient
mentioned that Sydney and Melbourne
specialists had told him it would take him
a year to recover. Nerves have got Hogan
down, though he has only.been a Labor leader
for six years. If he had been compelled to
wait, like Prendergast, 20 years for the
Premiership he might have been less sensitive
and more philosophical. Tunnecliffe, who
will carry on while Hogan is away, is of
tougher material.
Dawes, who gave his name to _ the point
from which the Sydney Harbor Bridge starts
on the south side, was a lieutenant of
marines in the First Fleet. Milson, who
gave his name to the point on the other side,
was an early settler —moderately early, any-
way. The first grant made on that side was
to one Samuel Lightfoot; but neither Samuel
nor any of his successors stuck until Milson
arrived. The next conspicuous point, Cre-
morne, used to be called Robertson’s, after
the father of “Old Jack,” several times Pre-
mier, who had a stone house there. Later
this was turned into a pub with a dancing
pavilion attached, and named Cremorne,
after the once well-known “gardens” on the
Thames above London.
R. T. BALL, ex-Minister for Works, who
has returned his ticket for the Bridge
opening.
J. A. R. McKellar, who died in Sydney
last’ week, after a very brief illness, at 27,
was a bank clerk and a keen athlete. There
were many who saw in him a poet in the
making, too, though he had only published
one little book. “Twenty-six,” which was
reviewed in The Bulletin only last month.
For a first effort the promise shown in the
verses was marked; there was quality and
a certain distinctiveness in young McKel-
lar’s verses. He left a host of friends and
admirers. . .
Australia has lost one of its chief authori-
ties on insects in A. M. Lea, of Adelaide
Museum. He ' got his early training in
N.S.W., but for the last 20 years has been
given a free hand in S. Aus., and his scienti-
fic notes have earned him a world-wide name.
While seemingly in perfect health, he fell
dead at 66.
J. H. Cann, still
living in retire-
ment at Petersham,
was the Minister
who first put a bill
through the N. S.
W ales Assembly
authorising
t. h e building o f
“B r a d field’s
bridge.” As Min-
ister for Works in
the first Labor
Government,
Arthur Griffith had
sent the proposal
t 0 the Works De-
partment, and had
put Brgdfield in
charge of the inves-
tigations ; and the
committee’s appro-
val and Bradfield’s
enthusiasm per-
suaded Cann that
the time was ripe.
The Leg. Council,
however, jibbed at
the expense; and
it was left for a
successor, R. T.
Ball, also pictured
on this page, to
reintroduce the bill
and (the boom hav-
ing begun) to suc-
cessfully carry it
through.
Curiously, nearly
all the M’s.P. who
have been most
closely associated
with the Sydney
Harbor Bridge
have been country
members Griffith,
who sent it to the
Works Committee;
Cann, who got the
J. H. CANN, the ex-
Minister for Works who
first carried through
the Assembly the bill
to construct the Sydney
Harbor Bridge.
scheme through the
Assembly; to be twice blocked by the
Council; Ball, who . finally piloted _ the
measure through ; Davidson, who is Minister
in charge of the department to-day. Griffith,
Cann and Davidson sat for Broken Hill or
other far Western districts; Ball is from
Albury. Only Davidson and Ball are now
in Parliament, and Ball swears he won’t
be at the Bridge opening, having only been
invited into a stand with people of no special
consequence.
L. A. Mullins, a Richmond porter,
will be Vic. Railway Union’s representative
on the delegation to Russia. Mullins, who
is 30 years of age, is a student of Soviet
literature, and defended the policy of the
Communist party during the late elections.
Nevertheless, he asserts he will go to Russia
with an open mind, and will form his
opinions on his own private investigations.
It takes a swift train 14 days to cross
Russia (including Siberia), so he will have
plenty to investigate.
The recollections of Edwin Davis, who
passed out recently at Yass (N.S.W.) went
back beyond most living memories. A Syd-
neyside * native, he was brought up to his
father’s trade of teamstering, and on the
day when Constable Nelson was shot at
Collector by the Hall gang, Dunn and
Gilbert were self-invited guests to break-
fast at Davis’s camp at Gunning. Davis
was one of the first men, if not the first,
to cart flour to the Lambing Flat diggings,
and was an eye-witness of the riots. He
drew with his bullocks a cannon from the
site of the old hospital to the front of Yass
Courthouse for the use of the 22nd Regi-
ment, but it is doubtful whether the soldiers
ever gave the antiquated weapon a second
thought.
Peter Gaffney, who died the other day
in Brisbane at 62, was for years a promi-
nent figure in the Queensland Labor party
and the Irish Association. He came to
Queensland from Ireland at 20, and spent,
years in the cane country. Later he became
foreman of works to the Brisbane City Coun-
cil, and on his retirement from the job was
elected an alderman. In pre-Federation
days lie was a prominent metnber of tne
Irish' volunteers, one of the smartest units
of the Queensland forces.
J. Podosky, who panned his last prospect
in Sydney recently, was one of North
Queensland’s mining pioneers. A Silesian
Pole, he came to Queensland after serving
with the German forces in the Franco-Prus-
sian war, and was one of the first men on
the Cape River rush. Later he took a big
hand in the development of the onee-im-
portant Ravenswood field and the neighbor-
ing Charters Towers. Few men did more
for the advancement of mining in the coun-
try behind Townsville, and he was in addi-
tion a keen racing man, running many good
horses at the northern meetings in his day.
“L.”: No demand for Australian novels in
Australia? Well, Vance Palmer’s “The
Passage,” which gained a Bulletin piize, is
one of the books prescribed for the course in
English literature at Melbourne University
this year, and a fresh edition of Erie Cox s
“Out of the Silence” is being published by
Robertson and Mullens. Cox’s novel, which
has qualities of greatness as well as per-
manence, is about an ancient civilisation
which some explorers stumbled on m Central
Australia. It first appeared as a serial in
the “Argus.” Then it was given a run in
book form in Australia. British and Ameri-
can editions followed, and it is still m
demand in the local libraries. Cox is the
literary critic of the “Argus,” and a master
at his job.
Sam Mauger, a former P.M.G., moved the
resolution adopted at the annual conference
of Rcchabites at Rochester (Vic.) directing
attention to the “appalling continued eco-
nomic waste of £20,000 a day” in liquor
outlay in Victoria, and urging the restora-
tion of triennial local option polls. Sam at
74 is as keen a blue-ribbonite as when he
began his Parliamentary career last centuiy
as M.L.A. for Footscray.
“Old-timer”: Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart.,
who arrived in Australia by the Orford, is
the head of N.S.W.’s wealthiest expatriate
family. His father, William Charles, was
Christian-named after Wentworth,
family, like his, inter-married with the Hills
—they lived in Surry Hills and had a
butchery in Elizabeth-street. The first bart.
was Speaker of N. S. Wales Legislative
Assembly 80 years ago, but got his title as a
reward for the fortune that came to him as
Woollahra’s largest landowner. There was
a time when the Cooper estate comprised
pretty well everything worth owning in the
real property line from Woollahra House to
the heights of Edgecliff;. Tom Rame, or
Raine and Horne, was paid the annual in-
come of a judge merely to administer it.
Most of Australia’s ultra-rich families dritt
away from it in time, and the Cooper family
is an outstanding example. The main branch
has turned from trade to soldiering—the
present bart., his elder son, a brother and a
nephew were or are in expensive regiments
—and it has married fairly freely into the
peerage. A> good many of tlie collaterals are
Army folk, too. And the boom m Sydney
property values has paid for nearly all of it.
Tom Nivett, now living in retirement in
Brisbane, arrived in Queensland in the six-
ties British-born and trained to the engineer-
ing trade, his first important job was as
secretary, wardsman and dispenser of the Nor-
manton Hospital, his wife being the trained
nurse. In 1907 he was elected M.L.A. tor
Carpentaria, and held the seat until the
electorate (since restored) was cut out m
the redistribution of 1912; later he was
appointed to the Legislative Council, also
abolished in its turn. For some years prior
to his retirement, he had been visiting jus-
tice to many of the Queensland gaols and
mental hospitals.
Thomas Timmins, who passed over m Mel-
bourne at 79 recently, was in a way a link
with the Sydney Bridge. He came to Vic-
toria from Birmingham as designing engi-
neer for the State railways, and from that
gravitated to the billet of Australian man-
ager for Dorman, Long. As such he handled
some of the earliest negotiations for the
Bridge, but resigned before the expensive con-
tract was signed. He was one of Mel-
bourne’s first motorists, and steered a car
round the metropolis by means of a tiller.
Vic. Chief Sec.’s Department has lost
two good heads of branches in Dr. Clarence
Godfrey, Government Medical Officer, who
has reached the retiring age (65), and Lewis
Thomas, secretary of the Children’s W elfare
division, whom ill-health has compelled to
retire at 63. Godfrey is a specialist in
mental troubles and is likely to put up his
plate in Collins-street.
William Michael Nashe, who has died at
Yeronga, South Brisbane, was a South Austra-
lian by birth and one of the pioneers of the
Coluniboola district, where he did much use-
ful work on local-government bodies, and on
Red Cross activities in war-time. A lifelong
Bulletin reader, he counted several of the
old-time contributors among his friends, one
of his cherished possessions being a letter
from Will Ogilvie.
LORD BEAUCHAMP.
Charles John Cerutty, recently respon-
sible for the most, outspoken report on Gov-
ernment and other extravagances ever de-
livered by a Commonwealth Auditor-General,
has spent all his working life in the public
service. He was born at Sale (Vic.) 61
years ago and started as a Treasury clerk
before he was 18. When Federation arrived
he transferred t 0 the Commonwealth service
as a Treasurv accountant and rose steadily
until lie attained his present position six
years ago. He has filled numerous side-,
jobs to enable him to speak with authority
on the country’s finances, having been Com-
missioner of Old-age Pensions and Maternity
Allowances and Chairman of the Gold-
mining Conference (1923).
Rev. S. CARROLL MYERS, the new
Methodist president in S. Aus.
De Valera isn’t the only member of the
Irish .Free State’s new Ministry who has
heard the death sentence passed on him. Sean
McEntee, the Finance Minister, shared his
leader’s fate after the Dublin insurrection
of 1916, and one of the British prisons of
which he subsequently saw the inside ■was
the always gloomy and recently turbulent
Dartmoor. McEntee, like De Valera, was
released under the General Amnesty of 1017.
An engineer by profession, he is something
of a poet as well as a politician.
There’s life in the pioneer families yet.
Clive Weston, a great-great-grandson of
Colonel Johnston, who built Horsley, near
Parramatta, over a century ago, scored the
best pass in the G.P.S. section in the
recent leaving exams, at Sydney, getting
first-class honors in mathematics and Latin,
second-class honors in chemistry and A’s in
English and French. The lad, who is 18,
is a son of the H. E. Westons, of Neutral
Bay.
Knight Charles Na,than, who is just re-
turning to Westralia from a trip to his
native Maoriland, has made a .specialty of
industrial research as well as industry.
Managing director of Atkins, Ltd., of Perth,
he has sat on all sorts of boards and com-
missions devised during the last ten years
for the advancement of Australian and
Empire trade and the harnessing of science
to new developments. Born a trifle over 60
years ago, he has been an M.L.C. since 1930.
Father Luke Mullany, who succeeds
Father Bom. H'ayes, Bishop-elect of Rock-
hampton (Q.), as Director of the Catholic
Chinese Mission in Australia, has had ex-
perience in shepherding in China. He will
have his headquarters at the St. Columba’s
seminary at Essendon. Father Hayes will
be mitred by Archbishop Mannix next month.


Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, plus extra years of sendee.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop.
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
uwrrn
vi . j
' ipp^'
0< ™
/ *Wy<2
ty will >i;i|
MAYS
Fertilizer
Spreader
We can deliver from
stock.
Now is the time for
Top-dressing, and
here is the ideal
machine for the job.
Send for leaflets, or
call and inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phone: L 2715.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
{Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
V
m
Sslilte 1
! U
! !
Hi
U, is
u. i
1
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from
Room and Breakfast from
22/6
12/6
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1916 . . 253,963 108,811 36,145 3,000 106,007
1917 . . 282,008 142,900 41,105 2,271 95,732
1918 .. 339,743 149,279 51,456 581 138,427
1919 .. 392,530 150,216 55,829 6,466 180,019
1920 . . 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1921 .. 570,065 198,603 78,755 11,488 281,219
1922 .. 641,593 231,764 81,292 5,977 322,560
1923 .. 715,179 266,200 79,765 12,036 357,173
1924 .. 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,613 429,070
1925 .. 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1926 .. 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 .. 1,223,364 516,262 126,903 53,351 526.848
1929 .. 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 ..1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 ..1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 7 9 0, 197
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 ) ’ ‘
At the beginning of this century “George
Crowley’s Company” charged practically non-
profit rates, but, later, these were revised and
margins allowed for bonuses. Much of the
society’s progress of recent years has been
due to the bonuses it has paid, and these
have been largely the result of high interest
returns, following a policy. of mortgage and
property investments on a rising market.
Moreover, such a policy has been very help-
ful in securing new business at moderate cost.
But the abrupt contraction of property
values, the statutory cut in interest on mort-,
gages and Government securities, mora-
torium legislation, which in N. S. Wales has
rendered many of the society’s securities
“nugatory for an indefinite period,” and
extra Government bleeding have all helped to
narrow the margins available for bonuses,
of course. However, to help guard against
this and other contingencies £lOO,OOO had
been earmarked for equalisation of bonuses,
and £120,000 was added to the contingency
reserve last year, raising it to £250,000 at
the end of Dec. The bonuses declared last
year in respect of the preceding 12 months
(£374,000) were 52 p.c. of the net premiums
in 1930 as against 50.8 p.c. in 1929, and
£321,187 of the 1930 bonuses remained in
the business as additional insurance.
Leaving bonuses (they are included in
income and claims respectively in the
table) out of' the figuring, the slip in last
year’s income (£982,113) was £116,788, of
which £97,925 was in respect of interest and
rents (£279,369) —only cash receipts were
taken into account, of course. The amount
that remained in the business (£354,127)
was £195,707 less than in the previous year;
that was after paying all legitimate claims
and exes., including lapses (£165,428, up
£67,531) and taxation (£64,106, up £21,681),
and striking £13,401 off the book value of
some of the assets.
The amount of new business put on the
books fell away £417,057: —
1911. 1930. 1931.
Policies .. . . 3,379 4,909 4,280
Assuring .. .. £599,361 £2,855,000 £2,437,943
First premiums .. 40,406 73,845 63,507
Renewal premiums 79,826 644,494 636,504
Annuities .. .. 400 3,268 2,733
Interest, etc. .. 30,722 377,294 279,369
The slip of £7990 in renewal premiums is a
reflex of the year’s lapses. These again show
up, together with the drop in interest returns
and the growth in taxation, in increased costs.
Excluding bonus figures, exes, took 15.7 p.c.
of the year’s income compared with 12.9,
14.5 and 13.4 p.c. back to 1928. Assuming
that new business is 10 times more expen-
sive than old, the year’s first premiums were
gathered at a cost of 122 p.c. as against 100,
95.3 and 80.7 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. But that includes the cost of manag-
ing the co.’s investments, which call for
special care and attention, as last year’s
figures suggest.
Of the three chief sources of profit—
interest, mortality and loading—the office
has thus far scored heaviest from interest.
It assumes that its life fund will turn in
p.c. After deducting income tax, etc.,
last year’s net interest and rents was
3.5 p.c. on the mean fund compared with
5.8 p.c. and 5.9 p.c. in 1930 and 1929
respectively; but a considerable number of
postponed payments were not taken into
account; when conditions become more
settled, especially in N. S. Wales, better than
3.5 p.c. can be looked for.
More attention was given to Government
securities, to the book value of which
£155,206 was added during.the year—Consols
are free of State taxes: —
1930. p.c. 1931. p.c.
Govt, securities.. £948,287 14.8 £1,103,493 16.5
Mortgages .. 3,529,616 55.1 3,514,735 52.4
Loans on policies 844,241 13.2 990,195 14.8
Properties . . 517,690 8.1 559,967 8.4
Shares and
debentures, etc. 413,046 6.5 364,249 5.4
Gash and sundries 148,631 2.3 166,901 2.5
The growth of £145,954 in loans on policies
reflects the times; the. weakness in the item
lies in the possibility of lapses. At the
moment mortgages and properties call for
expert handling, which is assured while
managing-director George Crowley is at the
helm. Substantial provision has been made
for contingencies, which ought to mean main-
tenance of satisfactory bonuses.
Norco Co-op., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£££ £ £ .
57 425
Oct., ’27 31,600 7 p.c. = 3225 28,499 57,’301
June, ’28*47,856 7 „ „ 4477 21,314 22,065 79,366
Dec., ’2B 20,536 7 „ „ 3423 26,000 70,479
June, ’29 16,540 7 „ „ 3466 12,000 1,074 71,553
Dec., ’29 18,779 7 „ „ 3865 13,000 1,914 73,467
June, ’3O 36,413 7 „ „ 3879 15,000 17,534 91,001
Dec., ’3O 13,828 5 „ „ 2723 6,000 5,105 96,106
Loss.
June,’3l 2,710 5 „ „ 2621 90,775
Profit.
Dec., ’3l 6,222 5 ~ „ 2638 3,584 94,359
‘Eight months.
This is the largest co-operative butter manu-
facturer in the Commonwealth; bacon and
pork are the other lines principally handled.
It grew up with the development of the fer-
tile N. S. Wales North Coast, and since its
inception in 1894 it has paid to suppliers
over £27,000,000 on account of butter and
nearly £3,000,000 for pigs. For many years
it marketed its produce in conjunction with
the Coastal Farmers’ Co-op. (now the
P.D.S.), but broke away in 1.925, and has
since run its own selling floor in Sydney.
Over the last half-dozen years the co.’s
output of butter has more than doubled, due
mainly to the operation of the Paterson
scheme and a run of good seasons. Under
the scheme a levy (now lfd, per pound) is
imposed on all butter produced, and the
funds thus collected are used to pay a bounty
(now 2Jd. per pound as against 4-|d. a few
years ago) on the surplus exported. The
bounty, of course, is reflected in the price
charged for butter for local consumption.
However, the exchange and the drop in local
prices have helped to even up the position,
as the following table shows:—
Price per Cwt. of Butter.
Approximate
London.f Sydney.* Difference.*
March 31, 1930.. 126/- 177/4 42/-
Sept. 30, 1930.. 126/- 158/8 23/-
March 31, 1931.. 111/- 158/8 14/-
Sept. 30, 1931.. .117/- 154/- 3/-
Dec. 31, 1931.. 108/- 130/8 4/4
t Sterling. ‘Australian shillings.
{Excess London over Sydney.
Thus, allowing for exchange, whereas a
couple of years ago producers were getting
425. per cwt. more on the Sydney than on
the London market, the London price was
worth 4s. more than the Sydney figure at
the end of December last.
For the 12 months to that date Norco
turned out an extra 10 tons of butter
(15,844), but treated 2737 fewer pigs
(43,308). Prices were down, and revenue
from all sources slipped £223,521: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Butter sales .. £2,339,637 £2,619,845 £2,412,647
Bacon sales . . 168,880 149,177 135,575
Sundry income . . 64,355 12,538 9,917
Total income .. £2,562,872 £2,781,560 £2,558,139
Paid to suppliers.. 2,020,115 2,126,542 1,979,586
The amount distributed to suppliers was
£146,956 lighter, the average for butter
being 12.68 d. per pound as against 13.77 d.
in 1930, and for A 1 pork 4.9 d. as against
5.6 d. There was little difference in the
Paterson levy (£258,951) ; selling exes., etc.
(£315,990), were got back £30,162. Thus
the year’s net profit was only £3512, a con-
traction of £46,729, notwithstanding that
the Sy((jiey selling floor netted £33,519.
During the year £117,591 was spent on
plant, mainly at Lismore and Murwillum-
bah ; but £llBO more than that was written
off from reserves, visible and otherwise,
created for the purpose, leaving the net book
value of tire item at £203,118 at the end
of December last: —
0ct.,’27. Dec.,’29. Dec.,’3o. Dec.,’3l.
Paid capital.. £92,047 £110,425 £108,916 £105,510
Sundry creditors 195,311 271,881 267,301 336,817
Overdraft ..
Plant, etc. .. 123,950 192,850 204,298 203,118
Shares in other
cos . . 39,078 43,200 46,466 46,466
Stock . . 59,201 52,398 48,455 37,734
Debtors . . 153,141 172,890 211,811 191,489
Cash, etc. . . 48,040 57,935 44,174 68,842
The growth of £69,516 in the creditor item
was mainly on butter account. When the
books closed liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids, including stocks but not shares, by
£38,752, a swing of £75,891 during the
twelvemonth, due mainly to the outlay on
new plant already referred to. The amount
coming to creditors was a little under two
months' average sales. Shareholdings con-
sist mainly of scrip in the P.D.S., Co-op. Box
Co. and Milk Industries, Ltd. No freehold
figures in the sheet.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Writ- Re-
Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. ten Off. serves.
Dec., & & £ £ £
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 p.c. = 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10,650 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926. .205,435 Nil • Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 625,000
Early in 1915 the co. took over some of the
cattle-runs, mostly in far-western Queens-
land, which had been left on the Q. N.
Bank’s hands after the smash of the ’nine-
ties. For the six years to the close of
accounts in 1920 the ords - . averaged 74 p.c.
But Europe turned to “baby beef” from S.
America, and for the next five years it was
a struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.
Sheep offered a way out, so Lucknow and
Cork were converted at a cost of about
£BO,OOO. But drought, the bugbear of the
squatter, gripped these and other of the
co.’s properties, and for four years on end
the hot sun kept the watercourses dry
and the runs bare of feed. Thus heavy
mortality of livestock and the cost of hand-
feeding and agistment had gobbled more
than half the capital and sent the co. to the
bank and others for £244,863 at the close of
accounts in 1929. Nature smiled again in
1930, but the collapse of wool prices and
recessions in the sheep and cattle markets
spoilt financial results.
Last year conditions were mixed. Owing
to a dry spell in the North the co. wrote
off for deaths 2622 cattle and 25,105 sheep.
Still, the clip (3510 bales) was heavier,
but bullocks averaged 365. 6d. per head less
at £7 3s. Id., and 3s. 6d. was the best the
co. could get for young wethers oil-shears.
Thus, after allowing for the loss of live-
stock, there was a slip of £8125 in the
year’s sales, etc.: —
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Sales, etc. . . £187,938 £58,210 £111,213 £103,008
Expenses .. 146,073 106,153 97,430 127,574
Depreciation.. 22,413 29,869 28,716 24,915
Exes, sprang £30,144, due to adjustment of
the book value of livestock to market prices.
So, after striking off £24,915 for deprecia-
tion, the loss was £49,481, making aggre-
gate net losses over the last six years no
less than £540,774, and raising the deficit
on the ords.’ account to £525,000, equal to
17s. 6d. per 20s. share, at the end of last
December.
During the year £5708 was chipped off the
overdraft (now £207,703) and £12,779 off
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£15,200) -
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £650,000 £850,000 £850,000 £850,000
Liabilities . . 135,094 244,863 241,390 222,903
Freeholds . . 68,605 68,605 68,774 68,774
Leaseholds . . 325,524 261,194 237,070 216,014
Plant, etc. .. 85,285 77,434 70,780 66,748
Livestock . . 495,513 223,639 231,391 189,394
Wool .. . . 34,490 2,156 5,830 6,000
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 1,250 2,027 972
The stock losses and adjustment of book
values are reflected in a slip of £24,195 in the
financial position; outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £26,537 when
the books closed.
Since then the co.’s slate has been cleaned
by wiping 17s. 6d. per share off the ords.,
reducing paid capital to £325,000 in 250,000
£1 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 600,000 ords. of
2s. 6d. each. However, there was still
£105,000 (= Bs. 4sd. per share) coming to
the prefs. for accrued divs., and the out-
side debt calls for further reduction. No
rain has fallen on the runs since the books
closed; and given good seasons only moderate
profits need be looked for with costs and
prices as they are at the moment. The prefs.,
which are covered by 265. in net tangibles
(all leaseholds) are offered at 10s.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends N Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12,083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1g26.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £300.. .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Hardware is a difficult business, and con-
sidering the times and the lines along which
the co. has developed during the last decade,
the management was fortunate to show a loss
of no more than £3683 for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. Gross earn-
ings (£56,256) fell away £17,485, making
the drop £27,707 over the last two years;
operating exes. (£55,754) were got back
£11,353, a trading profit of £502,
but £4185 was set aside for depreciation and
bad debts. Thus the prefs., which got only
half a meal in the previous term (they call
for £5BOO p.a.), were passed by, and the
ords. went .hungry for the second time.
The present co. took over the then 48-year-
old business of D. and W. Chandler in 1922.
Operations have since spread to Warrnam-
bool, Bendigo, Ballarat, Horsham and Laun-
ceston. The development was largely along
mail-order lines, followed, when enough busi-
ness was assured, by the opening of branches.
But there is little fat in the trade; after
allowing for pref. divs., the ords. got a
steady 6 p.c. from profits averaging 8.1 p.e.
on the ord. capital for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1930.
To finance the stocks required and carry
more book debts, shareholders put up an
extra £51,750 and the board went outside
f9r a further £42,919 net over the last
eight years.
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £125,000 £171,750 £176,750 £176,790
Liabilities .. 15,741 66,377 73,190 58,660
Freeholds . . 25,933 43,292 43,312 43,312
Plant, etc. .. 13,313 22,100 25,293 22,841
Stocks . . 73,628 135,459 141,404 129,015
Book debts . . 24,302 32,765 30,197 25,949
Cash, etc. .. 8,324 3,150 1,460 1,471
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000
Last year’s reduction of £12,389 in the stocks
item and of £4248 in debtors’ balances en-
abled £14,530 net to be snipped off the debt.
Still, the more or less liquid surplus (£97,775,
including stocks) was £2096 lighter than at
the previous balance. Obviously a lot de-
pends upon the soundness of the book debts.
Certainly the outlook is better than it was
a few months ago. But costs have become
stubborn and taxation onerous, and there
seems little prospect of turnover recovering
to the level of recent years.
The prefs.—72.soo of them, 8 p.c. cumu-
lative, with priority as to capital—arc
offered at 16s. They carry 2s. 4d. accrued
div., and are covered by £2 9s. 4d. in net
tangibles. The ords. seldom come on to
the market.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 17,818 8 p.c. = 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 „ „ 9,083 112,251
1922.. 14,635 8 „ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19,696 10 ~ „ 11,354 8,342 126,145
1924.. 9.249 10 „ „ 11,354 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ „ 11,355 2,355 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ ~11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 „ ~.12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 „ „ 13,626 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ „ 13,626 17 130,124
.1930.. 11,394 11 „ „ 12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions tqreserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
It was a lucky combination of circumstances
which enabled this solidly-established Maori-
land exporter of primary products to put up
what looks like its best performance during
a twelvemonth which included the trough
of the depression. Smithficld (Eng.) prices
touched their lowest level (2Jd. for mutton)
for 25 years. But fluctuations favored con-
signors. Heavy killings early in the term,
due to a dry spell and growers’ need of cash,
arrived overseas when the market was at
its top (10£d. for lamb), and a 10 p.c.
•wage cut and the exchange premium helped,
too. It is probable also that when the books
closed in 1930 liberal allowance had been
made for contingencies which did not even-
tuate. So the board claimed a profit of
12.6 p.c. on capital as against 10 p.c. in
1930, and lifted the div. a point to 12 p.c.
again.
Another factor which continues to help
is that the works are at Invercargill, Mata-
ura and Makarewa, which means that the co.
does not have to compete for stqck in the
overcrowded Canterbury markets, nor do
many buyers reckon it worth coming to the
extreme southern end of the island. More-
over, during the fat years of war-time con-
tracts more was put aside than was distri-
buted, notwithstanding a cash bonus of
£22,761, sent out with £45,481 of gift .scrip
in 1919. Last year’s unexplained addition
of £30,000 to reserves came from a “war
contingency account.” Thus reserves were
visibly £46,218 higher than paid capital when
the books last closed.
The improvement in the year’s results is
further reflected in this pleasing compari-
son of balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £113,539 £113,547 £113,547 £113,547
Liabilities .. 40,587 41,699 56,434 89,862
Works .. 121,946 126,266 124,009 129,274
Stocks .. 22,861 22,577 37,987 63,582
Book debts,
cash, invest-
ments, etc. 139,037 143,340 142,688 177,130
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£150,850, including stocks) sprang £26,609.
(Continued on page 16.)


PROSPECTUS
OF
Howard Portland Cement
Company Limited
To be Registered under the Companies Act of Queensland 1863 1913.
CAPITAL - - - - £500,000
Divided into 500,000 shares of £1 each. . , • i
80,000 shares are offered for public subscription, payable—2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, I/O per share par
monthly for the first four months after allotment, and 1/- per share paid monthly thereafter. . l f u l J
35,000 shares, each fully paid up, to be issued to the vendors named in the Schedule hereto or their nominees in full payment tor the freehold
and leasehold lands, rights, and privileges as set out in Schedule according to their respective interests m the said lands rights and privileges.
20,000 shares, each fully paid up, to be issued to Charles Clifford Thoms (who is now in London m connection with the Company s business),
or his nominees, as consideration for services performed in Australia and Great Britain, and for expenditure incurred during his stay in
London for three and a half years, and as further consideration for services yet to be performed in London before his departure tor
Australia, in connection with the promotion of the Company. . . , ,
15,000 shares, each fully paid up, to be issued to the Howard Portland Cement Syndicate, or their nominees, as consideration for services performed
and preliminary work done in connection with the property during the past eight years, and in connection with the promotion ot the
Company.
350,000 shares to be held in reserve for future issue if and when required.
Arrangements have been made with E. Newell & Co., Ltd., of Misterton, Notts, England (Cement Machinery Specialists),
to supply a complete plant on the most modern lines, according to our specifications, and deliver it c.i.f. Urangan Jetty at a
cost of £200,000, and to accept payment for the full amount, payable by seven half-yearly instalments, commencing two
years after the contract is signed, and bearing interest at the rate of 1% over the Bank of England rate for the time
to be secured by a first mortgage debenture over the assets of the Company, present and future, conditionally upon £BO,OOO
being subscribed in Australia. . , . . T V
The whole of the capital to be subscribed in Australia will be expended here m taking over the plant at Urangan and
erecting it at Howard, and to provide working capital until a productive stage has been reached by the Company.
Provisional Directors.
COLONEL C. D. W. RANKIN (Managing Director), Managing Director, Queens-
land Collieries Co., Ltd., Howard, who is to remain in office during the
period of the Company’s liability to the British investors.
C. CLIFFORD THOMS, Esq., Delana, Toowoomba, Queensland (British investors
nominee), who is to remain in office during the period of the Company s
liability to the British investors.
W. A. BRAND, Esq., Sugar Grower, Childers, and Member of the Legislative
Assembly, Queensland.
D. D. REID, Esq. (John Reid 6c Nephews), Brisbane, Queensland.
H. J. HYNE, Esq., Managing Director, Hyne 6c Son, Ltd., Shipowners and Timber
Merchants, Maryborough.
H. WILLIAMS, Esq., Accountant, Maryborough, Queensland.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY. —The Company is being- formed to establish works for the manu-
facture of Portland Cement at Howard, on the Burrum Coalfield, Maryborough district, Queensland, and
to acquire from the Vendors certain Freehold Lands, Coal and Limestone Leases, Shale and Clay
deposits, Rights and Privileges-, and the site for the erection of the works
To erect such buildings and instal such .machinery as are necessary for the manufacture of Portland
Cement, and to carry out such manufacture, and any other kindred industry or undertaking.
The leading factors making for success in an industry of this kind are: —
(а) A suitable site for the Works. This must be central, within easy distance of the raw
V ' products required, and conveniently situated with respect to land and water transport.
(б) A sufficient supply of suitable' limestone, clay, shale, coal and water to guarantee all
requirements.
The site selected at Howard possesses in an unusual degree all these requirements.
SITE The site is conveniently situated for transport by rail to the north and south, and will be
the most northern Cement Works in Australia. This places it in a very favorable position for supplying
the requirements of the large and growing cities of Townsville, Cairns, Rockhampton, Mackay, Bowen,
Gladstone and other northern towns. _ T , , , ~ , ~ .
Writing in the “Queensland Government Mining Journal” of loth July, 1914, under the heading, of
“Portland Cement Manufacture in Maryborough and District,” Mr. B. Dunstan, F.G.S., Government
Geologist, states: —
“Regarding sites for works, an ideal position would be where railway and waterway are both
in the vicinity, and these conditions would prevail in several places about -Maryborough. ...
Somewhere about the Burrum Coal Mines might be found a spot where coal and water are available,
and this locality would have the additional advantage of being the nearest site about Maryborough
to the Marule limestones. ... In conclusion, it can very confidently be stated rhat in no other
locality in Queensland, with perhaps the exception of Gladstone, do the limestone, coal and shale
deposits exist so close together and convenient to a deep-water port as in this district, and every
encouragement can therefore he given to the establishment of a Poitland Cement Industiy. The
quality of the limestones and shales has been found very suitable for all requirements in a high-class
cement manufacture, and the Burrum coal is all that could be desired for boilers and furnaces.
The foregoing remarks were written 18 years ago, since when additional local discoveries have
been made,’ and a deep-water port for the district has been established. It might be pointed out that
Mr. Dunstan held the position of Chief Government Geologist for the Queensland Government for many
years, and is thoroughly conversant with all the mineral resources of the State.
Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc., referring to the above report states : .
“it gives me pleasure to express complete concurrence with Mr. Dunstan. Howard, in my
>inion, is far superior to any other possible site in the Maryborough district or in South Queens-
opinion,
land.’’
The following are those on
LIMESTONE. —Numerous limestone deposits are found in the district,
which it is proposed to operate:— , ...
MARULE. —One lease at Marule, 38 miles distant, will yield 1,000,000 tons ot limestone, without
pumping. The other lease is estimated to yield 750,000 tons without pumping. Analyses show
carbonate of lime averaging 85 per cent. The Magnesia content is very low (0.6 per cent.) taken on an
average. The deposits are favorably situated for economic quarrying- and, the nearest being only one
mile from the existing Railway, can be cheaply developed as the intervening land is Hat and well
drained with a gradient in favor of the quarry. . , , .
PHILLPOTT. —The lease at Phillpott, 121 miles distant, adjoins the Railway, and is estimated to
contain 9,000,000 tons of stone, taken out at rail level. All these quantities will be greatly increased
if quarrying is carried out on a sloping floor and surface water pumped out. This stone shows J 7 per
cent, carbonate of lime, and Magnesia 0.5 per cent, on an average sample. lhe deposit is well
situated for development and quarrying. . , , ~ , . ~ ~
GOODNIGHT. —Samples taken from Goodnight, 81 miles distant, where the supply is piactically
unlimited, contain an average of 98.2 per cent, carbonate of lime, one of the highest results in
Queensland.
SHALES ANI) CLAY. —The deposits of Shale and Clay are on the site of the Works, and are eminently
suitable for the purposes required, the analyses varying between those given below:
Moisture. Loss on Ignition. Silica. Iron Oxide. Alumina. Lime. Magnesia. Alkalies.
Nil 10.4 59.4 .5 28.0 1-2 -a Nil
2.7 3.9 78.8 2.7 11.0 Nil Trace. 9
Shale dumps described by the late Mr. Oakden as of the highest value for Cement making, and estimated
to contain about 500,000 tons of Shale, are now lying on the surface available tor immediate use.
COAL. —The Burrum Coalfield has been worked for 50 years, and numerous seams c-f first-class coal
are known. The 1640 acres of coal-bearing land held by the Vendor is of proved quality. Light (8)
bores have .been sunk, and coal proved at depths varying from 167 feet to :>72 feet in a seam Jit.
thick. These bores and the known existing deposits in the area indicate the existence of at least
6,000,000 tons of coal on these properties. Mr. B. Dunstan, F.G.S., in the Queensland Government
Mining Journal” of 15th July, 1914, states: “The quality of the coal in the Burrum Coal measures is
found to be excellent for Portland Cement Furnaces”.... , ;
The following analysis of Howard Coal was obtained from a sample taken by the late Mr. I.
Oakden, C.E., M.I.E. (Aust.), Consulting Engineer, one of the leading authorities in Cement production
in Australia: —- , „ , ,
Moisture. Volatile Hydro.. Carbon. Fixed Carbon. Ash. Sulphur. B.T.U.
1.4 ' 29.2 66.4 2.2 0.6 14.504
who states: “This analysis is fully confirmed by those quoted by Mr. Dunstan and published in the
Queensland Government Geologist Survey (No. 170). I know of no Cement Company in Australasia
that is so favorably situated for its fuel supply”.... . .
In addition the Company have a source of immediate supply from the local Collieries, with which
a:rangements have been made for the supply of Coal at a satisfactory price.
Solicitors.
MESSRS. CHAMBERS, McNAB & CO., Brisbane.
Bankers.
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK., LTD., Maryborough.
Brokers.
MESSRS. HAYNE & CARSON, Griffith House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Auditor.
,J. J. CASEY (Ch. Accountant), A.1.C.A., A.A.I.S.
Secretary.
T. I. HEANEY, F.A.I.S.
Office.
HOWARD, QUEENSLAND.
WATER. The Burrum River passes about one mile from the Works site. Across this the Railway
department have constructed a dam with a capacity of 80,000 gallons. The Railway Commissioner for
Queensland has agreed to grant the Company free access to the water, the use of his purriping plant
and piping, which will bring the water within half a mile of the Works, the Company undertaking to
supply his local requirements estimated at about 15,000 gallons per day. It will be realised that this
Agreement is very advantageous to the Company, enabling the saving of a capital cost of several
thousands of pounds, and ensuring a never failing supply of fresh water. The average annual rainfall
in the Burrum River catchment area over a period of 50 years was 41 inches.
PLANT.— A modern electrically-driven Portland Cement Manufacturing Plant operating on the wet
process to produce 60,000 to 80,000 tons per annum will be erected. Provision has been made in the
lay out for extensions, unit by unit, as the trade of the Company increases. The plant will comprise
the most efficient Rotary Kiln and Cooler (over 260 feet long), yet evolved; and both the raw
material and Cement grinding plants will be of the latest and most efficient type with automaitio
handling throughout.
A Power Plant, comprising steam boilers and turbines of 1500 Kilowatt capacity, will be installed,
from which power in bulk will be available for distribution in the district., As the Company is
convinced that in the manufacture of Portland Cement, pre-eminence is held by Great Britain (as
exemplified by the production in that country of rapid hardening Cement, which is solely due to then-
excellent Cement-making Plants), it is the Company’s intention to instal British machinery only.
For buildings and structural work Australian material only will be used.
COST OF MANUFACTURE AND PROFITS. —The cost of manufacture has been carefully computed
by the late Mr. F. Oakden, C.E., M.1.E., from which figures it is reasonable to expect to manufacture
at a cost that wili allow a return of at least 15 per cent, on the capital invested. In computing this
dividend, consideration has been given to the fact that the price of Cement in Queensland will be
considerably reduced, and is based on a selling price much lower than the present ruling rate. Detailed
estimates based on a complete technical survey of the entire situation state that the cost of production
should not exceed £2/5/6 per ton, and as the present selling price is £5/17/- per ton, it will be seen
that there is considerable room for a reduction in price, while still maintaining a substantial profit
to the investors. Thesd estimates may be inspected at the offices of the Brokers.
MARKETS. —There is at present one Cement Works only in Queensland ; this has been operating many
years, and disposing of its product, probably 40,'00'0 tons per year, in the State. Enquiries carefully
made indicate tliat the present consumption is largely governed by cost. By placing Cement an the
market at the price stated by our technical advisers, there is a large market open through the Main
Roads Board in Cement penetration for road construction and in the Railways and structural works
throughout the State. The two former alone would probably consume three-quarters of the Company’s
output. As Cement is a commodity capable of application in so many directions, it will undoubtedly
play a very considerable part in the future development of the State. It is confidently anticipated that
the lowered price at which Cement can be supplied will lead to the construction of Cement roads instead
of the imported bitumen. Tlie policy of the Company will be to foster tire demand for Cement,
and to make extensions of the Works as demands increase, and so take the fullest advantage
of the excellent geographical position of the site, both as regards raw materials and markets.
MANAGEMENT. —Acting in conjunction with Messrs. E. Newell & Co., Ltd., Cement Machinery Manu-
facturers (and makers of the plant), steps are being taken ta secure the services of the most competent
Cement-making Engineer that it is passible to obtain in Great Britain, and assurances have been
given that every care will be exercised in making the appointment.
CONTRACTS. —Copy of cable received by C. D. W. Rankin from Newell & Co.. Ltd. on the 4th
February, 1932: “We agree to supply and deliver, c.i.f., at Urangan, all necessary plant and material
for £260,900, finance for which has been definitely arranged here, subject to your guaranteeing immedi-
ately £BO,OOO, for the erection of works in Australia, of which £40,00*0 must be deposited before
shipment per steamer, during June, 1932, balance as required.”
(Signed) NEWELLS.
An agreement lias been prepared and is intended to be entered into on the incorporation of the
Company between Colin Dunlop Wilson Rankin and the Queensland Collieries Company, Limited, as Vendors
of the one part, and the Company of the other part, for the sale and purchase of the Freeholds,
Limestone Leases, Shale, Rights and Privileges set forth in the Schedule hereto in consideration of the
issue to the Vendors or their nominees of 35,000 fully paid up shares in the capital of the Company.
Copy of the above agreement may be inspected at the Office of the Company’s Brokers.
COSTS OF FLOTATION.— The Company will bear the usual costs of flotation, including brokerage
and legal expenses.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.— The Memorandum and Articles of
Association are being prepared, so as to comply with the latest requirements of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange. It is the intention of the Directors to apply for the listing of the, shares on all Australian
exchanges.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.— Subject to their right to refuse any application, the Directors shall
allot the shares in order in which the applications reach the registered office of the Company.
Where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in full, and where the number of shares
allotted is less than the number applied for, the balance of the deposit will be applied towards payment
of the allotment money.
ALLOTMENT.— The Directors will proceed to allotment when 40,000 shares have been subscribed.
See full prospectus for engineers’ report and points for investors.


Private Finance
AND
Public Taxation
How Much More Can
We Stand ?
SEE
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY 1 '
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Abvt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coldison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1980-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will he quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Svdnev Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
* Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices P lus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
The cash holding (£82,321) was £35,205
stronger; investments were unchanged at
£82,689. So surplus liquids alone were
nearly six times more than the £26,160 of pref.
capital. Allowing bare cover for the prefs. the
balance was equal to 28s. 7d. per pound of
ord. capital, and there was a further 295. 7d.
in the written-down book value of fixed
assets.
The prefs., which enjoy priority as to
capital, advance with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond 5 p.c. On the market both
classes of scrip fetch 365. The return at
that price is 6.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Lead and Zinc
The U.K. tariff of 10 p.c. on lead and
zinc imported into Britain from places out-
side the Empire should help Empire pro-
ducers of the metals to work down stocks
at better prices than would otherwise be
obtained. Despite abnormally low prices
producers at the Barrier and elsewhere have
been unable to market all their output. The
duty is estimated to be worth an extra
16s. 3d. per ton on all March deliveries of
lead from Australia. Until further notice
official quotations for lead and zinc on the
London Metal Exchange will be on the basis
of duty on buyers’ account, which is equiva-
lent to quoting the metal in bond.
Market lead is produced at four centres
within the Empire: (1) Port Pirie (S. Aus.),
where the B. H', Associated Smelters (capa-
city 200,000 tons p.a.) treat the whole of the
lead concentrates from the Barrier; these
smelters are now producing at the rate of
140,000 tons p.a. (2) Trail Smeltery
(140,000 tons p.a.) in British Columbia,
where the Consolidated Mining and Smelt-
ing Co. treats tins products of its Sullivan
mine. (3) Namtu, Upper Burma (90,000
tons p.a.), where the Burma Corp. treats
its concentrates. (4) Britannia Refinery
(60,000 tons p.a.) on the Thames, where the
silver-lead bullion from Mt. Isa (Q.) is
refined. Incidentally, when metal prices
allow Isa to get properly into its stride,
and also permit the mills at Rosebery
(Tas.) and Lake George (N.S.W.) to start
up and do what is expected of them, Aus-
tralian lead production promises to exceed
21,000 tons per month, a figure at present
bettered only, by the U.S.A.
Empire zinc requirements are something
under 250,000 tons p.a., all of which can
be turned out from plants in Britain and
the Dominions. At the moment the E.Z.
eo.’s Risdon works (Tas.) are producing at
the rate of about 50,000 tons of spelter per
annum; but the figure can be increased at
short not-ice to 70,000 tons.
Owing to the improvement which the
British tariff has put into the outlook, Sul-
phide Corp. has decided to reopen the Central
mine at the Barrier on April 4. Amongst
other things that means work for 500 of
Broken Hill’s 5000 unemployed. Operations
at the Central ceased at the end of 1930,
when lead dropped below £l5 and silver
was fetching no more than Is. 3d. an ounce,
and before the big leap in exchange. Last
month the London spot price for lead fluc-
tuated between £l5 and £l3 10s., and for
spelter between £l4 Bs. 9d. and £l3. At
March 10 the figures were lead £l2 13s. 9d.
and spelter £l2 16s. 3d., the equivalents in
Australian notes being £l5 17s. and £l6
respectively, after allowing for exchange.
The Central’s ore reserves are put at
707,834 tons, or about five years’ work at
the normal rate of extraction.
Mining operations for the 12 months to
the end of June, 1931, resulted in a loss of
£78,843 at the North and a loss of £65,442
at the South. But each co. has since livened
its output, and provided nothing untoward
happens to prices and exchange, each
promises to show a profit on mining when the
books close at June 30 next.
In 1917 the British Board of Trade
entered into a contract to buy practically
the whole of the zinc concentrates produced
at the Barrier until the end of June, 1930,
To March 31. 1931, the total purchases
amounted to £13,057,000; and the total loss
was £8,104,000. The average price for the
whole contract was 925. 9d. per ton of con-
centrates f.o.b. Port Pirie, and the average
loss was 575. 6d. per ton. Obviously the
contract was in the nature of a very hand-
some bonus to the Barrier cos., which now
sell their zinc concentrates, under arrange-
ment, to the E.Z. co. and Imperial Smelting
Corp.
* * * *
Bewick Moreing have become interested in
the Cardox method of breaking coal, from
which great things are expected. By this
method a steel cartridge containing liquid
carbon dioxide is placed in the hole and
heated; the gas, liberated under high pres-
sure through a special discharge cap, very
effeetivelv breaks down the coal. There is
said to be no danger of igniting explosive
gases, and no objectionable smoke remains.
The method has met with success in Britain.
* * * *
The recovery of gold by agitation with
cyanide, filtration and precipitation on zinc
shavings has become firmly established. Of
the three steps, agitation, which may go
on for days in the case of a complex ore, is
by far the most expensive. Experiments in
two gold mills in Northern Ontario, have
shown that, when cyanide solution is fed
to the stamps and fine-grinding equipment,
about 80 p.c. of the total gold present is
brought into solution while the ore is pass-
ing through. Only a few per cent, of the
gold is dissolved in the agitation vats, but
about 10 p.c. is extracted while the pulp
is being filtered free from the valuable gold-
bearing solution. Thus, these mines, which
are now doing away with agitation, ex Pect
to greatly reduce their milling costs. The
scheme would be worth a trial on one ot
the Government cyanide mills in S. Aus. or
Westralia.
* * * *
“Miner”: Little is now heard of the
Kawarau G. M. Co. (Central Otago),
though it is quite on the cards that a bright
engineer may come along, get a cheap option
over the outfit and deliver the goods. Pro-
moters were the only people who made any-
thing out of this wild-cat Maoriland scheme
to win gold from the Kawarau River. Bond-
holders came to light with £250,000, much
of it good Australian money. The shilling
shares jumped to 275. 6d., but these
can be had at 3d. or 4d. new. The
Kawarau, which runs into the Clutha, is
rich in gold, but the bed is full of rock;
hence the failure of dredges, despite a dam
to hold back the water in the winter months,
The promoters forgot about underground
streams feeding the river. The banks and
district drained by the river have yielded
over 19 millions’ worth of gold, while one
dredge on the Clutha got 12730 z. of gold in
a week in 1904.
* * * *
Tests were recently made of Collinsville
( N .q.) coal for coking purposes. If results
prove to be satisfactory, hopes are that
ovens win be installed for the supply of
coke to Mt . Isa . This would mean full-
time WO rk for all bands at Collinsville, and
saving in freigbt cbar g e s for Isa.
* * * *
™
Tnnri TRvcr field 100 miles n w of
at A £ aan fid ’ ?s^ rnriT ,„ 1it * i’ ,
J ort , Moresby, in Papua is more likely to
develop into a base metal than a gold pro-
Position. A large lead-zinc-copper formation
ca *7 Ul &i appr^ ab A on n P w J
ie „ °f c ] l u ren^ 0 i 1 Q e 1 S fnv' nl
Samarai, and the general conditions or ex-
pl°itat^on are favorable.
m ~ ~ ,
. Observer l :T. M. Owen, general im ager
Eake George mine, says that the Wiluna
p l an t. COU M be increased from its present
ca P aci ‘y 27,000 tons to the original esti-
mat« of T^’°S, o
an other D<mt thickener extra flotation cells,
and oae Edwards roaster to handle the in-
creased pyritic concentrate. It is clear,
therefore, that the flotation section is the
bottle-neck. Many expect that the co.
will be content with 27,000 tons monthly,
Particulaily in view of the fact that Lind-
berg now places ore at only 780,000
ton ® warth 33s ’ • ius 1 t 1 ead pf I A O0 ' (^ 0 l° nS
worth 395. as originally estimated. Further
‘bough recent developments suggest that
‘here is moie than two and a half years
ore sup ahead, plenty of working places
a £ e needed to mine large tonnages. From
November to January indusiye the co. mined
77,124 tons of ore, which yielded £116,415, m-
excbange, or 30.25. per_ ton.
Deducting exchange, the crude ore is still
30.25. per ton on the basis of an
£p p.c. recovery, which is now being obtained,
Nevertheless, about _ one-tenth of the ore
£f. sarves ba f been mined for an average of
30.25. per ton. It looks as if the reserve
figure is still a bit too high; this conclusion
ls confirmed by the assays from development
work now in hand.
*,, . * , ,*
. When the Chaffers lease has been more
fully developed, Lake view and Star pro-
P° s cs to continue its search for the Westward
Crescent lode, which was unsuccessfully
sought after in 1930 by diamond drilling at
2900 ft. The drill, though rapid, is an un-
satisfactory method of exploring for narrow
gold lodes. The belief is that either the
lode was penetrated, but was so narrow as
to be unrecognisable, or that the holes did
uot go far enough. The co. is not very
favorably disposed to tnbutors, but realises
that in portions of the old workings,in the
Ivanhoe and Horseshoe the tributor can
work profitably where the co. could not.
Still, it is not unlikely that when the mine
goes on full production tributing will be
stopped or greatly reduced. At present about
4800 tons of tnbutor’s ore is mined monthly,
, , , . . __ A *
It is steady buying from Westralia that
is supporting, the market for Sons of Gwalia
scrip. The co. has wiped off a lot of its
debt to the State Government, and at the
present rate of earning should be able to
pay off the balance very soon. Still, the
co. has a skeleton m its cupboard in the
shape of a Cornish-clay proposition, which
has cost it nearly £lOO,OOO to date, and
which may continue to prove a financial
nuisance.
Working parties are again pottering around
some of the old mines on the Eastern and
North-Eastern Westralian goldfields, where
the shoots are too short and values too
erratic to suit cos. One or two gambling
concerns, which hold options, predict suc-
cess ; but call notices, followed by forfeited
scrip seems more likely.
H* «I S
B. H. Prop, has turned down its option
over the Brilliant at Coolgardie (W.A.).
Pinching of the shoot at depth is said to he
the reason. Of the Prop.’s remaining options
in the West, only one looks promising, and
unless adjoining shows can be included in
the deal it is not likely to be completed.
* * * *
Princess Royal, a Westonia (W.A.) show
worked by Bewick, Moreing for Adelaide and
Melbourne interests, is doing fairly well in
a small way, and its cash balance is accumu-
lating. There is not a great deal of ore in
sight, but what there is is good. The public
used to be in the venture, but unfulfilled
promises hy previous controllers, followed by
calls, caused most of them to get out.
* * * *
The United Verde Co. of New York,
holder of the Mararoa option (W.A.), is
sending two representatives from ’Frisco to
look at the property. If prospects are con-
sidered to be satisfactory the co. intends to
spend £25,000 or more in development, spread
over the next two years. Mararoa is entitled
to a little more than a fourth interest in
any co. formed to work the show.
* * # *
Great Boulder’s ore reserves are now 50
per cent, more than they were a year ago>
but the grade is down a fraction. Develop-
ment work is steadily adding to the tonnage,
and reserves 12 months hence are expected
to show a substantial increase on those now
visible-
* * * *
King of Creation, one of the hand-to-
mouth Adelaide cos., which has often tried
and failed to get a goldmine in the West,
failed to get a bid for a big wad of for-
feited shares recently offered.
# * * *
Anxious shareholder :
Re the “Wild Cat’s” comment and veiled warning
to shareholders of Malayan tin-prospecting cos.
(B. 24/2/’32). My interests are in Burma-Malay,
formed some years ago by E. N. Mulligan and G.
W. Osborne, who were successful in securing areas
at Katu and Renong. Companies were formed to
work these areas, both of which were equipped with
dredges. In the heyday of its prosperity Burma-
Malay’s shares were eagerly sought at over 50s.
on the market. Last week-end they could be had
at 7s. 6d. or thereabouts. Katu and Renong each
owed Burma-Malay £30,000, but 10 per cent,
debentures were issued and the parent was paid off
in cash; most of which, I presume, is still intact
and not in Australia. There is no sound reason for
the continued existence of Burma-Malay. How can
the co. hope to pay any dividend under present con-
ditions and constitution? Therefore the board needs
to consider whether it would not be in the best
interests of shareholders, who have put over
£200,000 into the organisation in one way and
another, to return some, or all, of the £lOO,OOO
of share capital.
sit * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) As a result of converting inscribed
stock under the National Debt Conversion
scheme, my association received a cash bonus
of £3 os. 2d., and inscribed stock was in-
creased by a bonus of £350. What entries
should be put through the books? (2) Could
this bonus be considered as an earning for
the financial year? (3) How do mutual
insurance cos. deal with similar cases? —
8736.
(1) You may treat the bonus, both cash
and stock, as an addition to capital, jour-
nalised as follows:
Dr. Or.
Cash A/c .. ..Dr. £3 0 2
Investments A/c ..Dr. 350 0 0
To Capital A/c £353 0 2
Being capital profit (face
value) on conversion of
inscribed stock.
Or, as the sfock is below par, you may want
to be on the conservative side; if so', credit
the total to Reserve for Depreciation of
Securities. (2) Strictly speaking, as your
association does not trade in invest-
ments, it should not be treated as ordinary
profit. For one thing, it has not yet all
been realised. (3) Insurance cos. probably
treated the surplus as a reserve against
investments.
(1) What is the meaning of “devaluation ”
of the £? (2) If the £ was stabilised at its
present value, would the present exchange
rate be always against us? (3) If the £
was devalued, who would be the best off, a
man with £lOOO in cash or a man holding
property valued at £1000? (4) If the £
was devalued, tcould a new currency be
issued? (5) How would devaluation affect
ordinary and preference shares in public cos.?
—BB5O.
(1) Reduction of its value in relation to
other currencies. (2) Par would be fixed
at £lOO English to (say) £125 Australian;
exchange rates would move around that new
fixed point. (3) If the new par were fixed
at about present rates, it is doubtful whether
one would be much better off than the other;
the advantage, if any, would lie with pro-
perty. (4) Not necessarily. (5) Ordinary
shares would get the benefit of any recovery;
prefs. would be tied down to payment at
the fixed rate in depreciated money.
Can a prospector holding a miner's right
prospect in N. S. Wales on a conditional
lease, residential lease, homestead farm and
homestead selection without making applica-
tion to the Warden? —B626.
No. Conditional lease, residential lease,
homestead farm and homestead selection
are private lands within the meaning of
the Mining Act (1906) ; the only way in
which a prospector can secure the right to
prospect thereon is by obtaining an autho-
rity to enter from the Warden, and paying
the rent and compensation assessed thereon,
or by entering into an agreement with the
owner of the land in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 69 and 70 of the
Mining Act.
What is the name of the co. working
Golden Horseshoe dump? Paid capital?
Treatment process? What will position he
when tailings have been treated? —8545.
Golden Horseshoe (New), an offshoot
of Golden Horseshoe, whose property is now
owned and worked by Lake View and Star.
Paid capital of the New is £220,000 in fully-
paid 4s. shares. The tailings are reground
and put through an Oliver filter, which is
said to be the last word in cyaniding. When
the treatment of the tailings is complete the
co. will be out of a job, unless it acquires
more dumps or other interests. These alter-
natives largely govern the investment possi-
bilities of the scrip.
(1) Any market for mica, not in sheets,
hut suitable for grinding? (2) Would mining
this quality mica pay? —BB46.
(1) Yes. Get in touch with Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street. Sydney; or Austral
Rock Milling Co., Gladstone-street, New
town. (2) Unlikely. The market is sup-
plied by discard from mines producing good
sheet.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.D.C.: (1) Quite good. (2) Nestles
prefs., General Industries (which will mean a wait),
and the fire-insurance stock you like best....
H. 0.: If safety of principal is important, don’t....
W.S.F.: See “Political Points,” B. 9/3/’32
Curious: (1) See B. 17/2/’32. (2) Yes. (3)
Mainly in share-selling exes., salaries, rents, etc.
(4) The £2BOO or so is coming to sundry creditors.
The directors are also claiming a further £2OOO
for fees after co. went into liquidation. (5) No;
but they may get a bit back. (6) Yes... .W.J.McR.:
Yes, the protection was a bit more than is usually
looked for R.C.L.: (1) Yes, but the statutory
22£ p.c. cut reduces the 7 p.c. to 5.4 p.c. (2) and
(3) If safety of either capital or income is important
you had better look elsewhere... .E.L.J.: (1) Produc-
tion, now about 1000 gallons per day, did not
begin until early this year. (2) Wollar; 400 acres
leasehold, with authority to prospect a further 240
acres.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Italy's Hint to Australia
Italy is very well worth watching these
clays. Mussolini and his men realise that
Capitalism must show better results than
Communism, or it will go under; and they
are not underrating Communism, as we are.
In effect Mussolini says that it is not suffi-
cient for commercial men in the front rank to
build up their own individual businesses;
they must help to build up the nation’s
businesses —including the poor little con-
cerns which would be very promising if they
had better direction and surer financial
resources. A system of “corporisation” is
in progress, and the services of leading busi-
ness men are being commandeered and offered
to new and struggling industries.
At this moment, for instance, a cry comes
to The Bulletin from Thursday Island.
The output of pearlshell has been limited, in
an effort to help the market; the bottom
has fallen out of the trepang market,
China having no money for luxuries at the
moment; and troclius is almost unsaleable.
In these circumstances the Straits badly
want a new industry. They can see tons of
sardines and other fish in their waters —
not exactly the sardine of Mediterranean
waters, but as good. They know that Aus-
tralia is still importing practically all its
tinned fish—absolutely all its sardines —and
has paid away for this food an average of
£1,200,000 a year during the past seven
years, and that is exclusive of potted and
smoked fish. Yet thus far every effort to
handle this business in Australia has failed,
chiefly because of two things: (1) ineffi-
ciency of management; and (2) consequent
lack of capital and failure on the distribut-
ing side. The Italian idea is to take hold
of a potential industry of that kind, nominate
a few front-rank business men to act as
nurses, and practically require others to
whom these men may appeal to give their
help in any direction indicated. These men
have to be something more than figure-
heads. too. They realise that not only has
the nation a right to call on them, but that
Capitalism is seriously on its trial, too.
There is surely a hint in that for Aus-
tralia.
Life Business
Australian life offices are not all doing
the business that should be coming in to
them at this time: the first of the larger
companies to report for 1931, the City Mutual,
shows only £2,437,943 of new business as
against £3,290,500 in 1929. It ought to be
much more.
There are two outstanding reasons why
the average man should look seriously to his
insurances at present. First, in 19 cases out
of 20 his estate is greatly depreciated. Two
or three years ago he thought he had pro-
vided for his wife and family in the event
of his death; to-day, in thousands of cases,
the provision either has disappeared alto-
gether or is badly shrunk, and the future of
it is a dark mystery. By years of effort he
may recover his position, or after years of
patience he may see others recover it; but
if he died in the meantime, what then?
Some, no doubt, are trusting to Whiddon
and the N. S. Wales lotteries ; but no busi-
ness man will do that. What he will do will
be, to turn to the one investment which will
enable him to recover his position immediately,
so far as his dependants are concerned. A
life policy will do that. It argues this way:
“Now, on the average, you would have,
say, 20 years in which to recover your posi-
tion. Your risk is that you won’t live those
20 years. Well, we will take that risk.
You can’t take it, because you are only
one; we can, because we are thousands.
Some will die to-morrow, and we will lose;
some will live beyond 20 years, and will
very gladly pay for the extra years.” Thus
the whole lot are protected instantly; and
only insurance can meet this great need of
the present time.
The other reason why the average man
should consider insurance more earnestly
now than ordinarily is that, if he died and
assets had to be realised, there must almost
certainly be an appalling sacrifice to pay
death duties; and again the dependants might
be left with hardly any of the provision
which the breadwinner believed he had made
for them. The insurance policy provides
money. There will be no loss on realisation.
You know exactly what the office will put
into the hands of your trustees : and there
is hardly an office now which will not make
this money available for payment of death
duties.
Of course, there is still need for care in
the choice of an office. But there are so
many good ones that only gross carelessness
can lead a man now into one of the hopeless
or unpi*ofitable ventures.
Our Wool-selling System
Dear Bulletin, —“Murrawong’s” com-
ments take nothing from and add nothing
to my contentions about the wool trade.
My main contention was that, with the ex-
pensive staffs that we have to keep at the
woolstores, a clip should be definitely
appraised and priced as soon as it arrives
in store, and the price referred at once to
the grower. If dissatisfied with his broker’s
ideas of value, he could then submit tne clip
to auction. Of course, the price submitted by
his broker would not stay fixed; but the
grower would know what his class of wool
was worth on any given day.
“Murrawong” says the wool is sold in
rotation in accordance with the zone system
arranged by the graziers’ representatives and
the brokers. The graziers very definitely
rejected the zone system last year and had
it foisted on them.
He says lie can get an accurate valua-
tion. Every valuation I have ever received
prior to the day of the sale was marked:
“Hand samples only; valuation only approxi-
mate.” Nothing I could have said shows
more clearly the weakness of the system
than “Murrawong’s” statement that he finds
it necessary to inspect his wool and do
the expert’s work of fixing the reserve. My
own experience, when times were better,
was that this paid handsomely, but at
present is outside practical economics for
tin* small man and should be unnecessary.
The touching picture of every second
grower clamoring for inclusion in a rising
market has always been one of the broker s
bogies. There is no particular reason why
they should not do this ; but they would not.
The year before last N.S.W. grew 60 million
bushels of wheat. It was theoretically pos-
sible for every wheatgrower to want to
sell on the one day. The fact is that, though
money was never so urgently needed, the
crop took 12 months to disposei of!
There is, growing dissatisfaction among
woolgrowers with the present auction
system, with the brokers’ attitude, and with
their habit of panic on any Weakening of
the market. My idea is simply to use the
huge and complex organisation to the best
advantage, and to get a speedier and better
return for the expenditure of seven bob a
bale.—Yours, Royal Orange.
Friendly Societies and the State
Dear Bulletin, —“Oddfellow” (B. 9/3/’32)
is amazingly ignorant of his subject. Con-
trary to his statement, “subvention” to
N.S.W. friendly societies is no “sop” to them.
N. S. Wales is the only State that has it;
and compare the results. In 1907, when
“subvention” was introduced to N.S.W., Vic-
toria had 123,443 / members as against
118,607 in N.S.W. In 1930 the figures were:
Victoria, 165,512; N.S.W., 252,086. But
the 165,512 members in Victoria had
£5,123,729 (£3O 19s. 2d. per member), whilst
the 252,086 N.S.W. members had £4,000,944
(£l5 17s. sd. per member). The figures for
all Australia are : Members, 630,773 : wealth.
£14,015,535 (£22 4s. sd. per member). Thus
plainly the granting of “subvention” in
N.S.W. has not resulted to the financial
advantage of the societies. But it lias con-
ferred benefits upon 'the aged and invalid
members which could not be paid prior to
its introduction, and which benefits cannot
be continued under the amended legislation.
“Oddfellow” suggests that the friendly
societies’ funds benefit by the amount granted
by the Government. They don’t. The only
money due by the Government to the sick
and funeral 'funds of the friendly societies
is £52.513. The Government has cut this
amount by £27,433, leaving an amount pay-
able to the funds of the societies, £25.080.
The medical fees paid by the Government
under “subvention” for aged members go to
doctors and chemists or dispensaries through
the societies, and not towards swelling the
funds. The “cut” in “subvention” is thus not
a penalty against the societies, but rather
against individual members, and the sooner
they are alive to the. fact the sooner the
position will be rectified.
—Yours, J. Williams.
Hon. Sec., Friendly So-
cieties’ Association of N.
S. Wales.
* * *
Japan has been a fine
customer of Australian
flour mills during the
past three months. The
other day there were no
less than five ships in
Sydney either loading or
getting ready to load
flour from Brunton’s and
other mills.
* *
This capitalist system
of ours must be a pretty
wonderful system, after
all. Here we have had
two and a half years, of
unexampled adversity,
Avith far more unemploy-
ed than ever before; and
infants generally suffer
most from that. Yet
actually the infantile
death-rate of Sydney met-
ropolitan area for Febru-
ary was only 47.68 per
3000 births as against
50.57 in February, 1931,
75.9 in February, 1930.
and 55.53 in February.
1929. And the general
death-rate has fallen too
—1929, 9.04 per 1000 of
population; 1930. 9.21;
1931, 8.08; 1932, 7.83.
* # ❖
“Gad”: After more
than 12 months’ absence
the greatest change I
notice in Sydney is the
drop in the cost of lmng.
Food, judged by the stand-
ards of a year ago, is
almost ridiculously cheap
—judging entirely .by
price-lists outside eating-
places. Indeed, there is
one eating-place where
they advertise “nothing
over a penny”—though,
of course, you wouldn’t
get far with the penny.
Clothes also seem to have
dropped almost to pre-
war prices. And fruit
and vegetables can be
picked up along the bar-
rows for less. I ran
across one of the best of
all prosperity the r-
mometers the other day—
a fellow whom I had met
some months ago on the
track. He said “Hang
has absolutely murdered
this place. You couldn’t
pick up a ‘zack’ in the
whole length of Pitt-
street Everybody
here seems br o k e.”
Which probably accounts
for the comparatively
few beggars about the
streets—l expected to
find armies of them.
$ * *
“Curragh”: A new
Westralian product,
tinned crayfish, is on the
market. The Cove Pack-
ing Co., Avorking in the
Avaters around Houtman
Abrolhos, is going after
the trade. The “job” is
very attractive. Odorless and tasteless wood
veneer and greaseless paper protect the con-
tents from contact with the tin —a novelty
in canned goods.
“E.H.M.”: In a North Coast (N.S.W.)
store the other day I realised the truth of
Swift’s “Vanity is the food of fools” when
a young swagman presented his dole ticket
and asked the assistant to include among
his rations a bottle of hair oil! I’m glad to
say the request was refused.
* * * *
You get some idea of how hard the
European nations are fighting for exports
from the fact that the Italian National
Institute for Exportation sends out a
monthly bulletin, covering the whole range
of the ’ country’s products, in Italian, Eng-
lish, French, German, Spanish and Portu-
guese editions.
* * * *
This doesn’t often happen these days.
The Bulletin lately put out specimen
pages of its “Handy Hints for the Farm,”
and invited a limited number of advertise-
ments. Long before the date of publication
the list of advertisers had to be closed. But
it is a very remarkable shillingswortli:
there is as much reading matter in its closely
packed pages as in two ordinary-sized five-
or six-shilling novels. The keen adver-
tisers knew what the demand was likely to
be. “Handy Hints for the Farm” will be
distributed direct from The Bulletin
office: Is. plus 2d. postage. It will be avail-
able on and after Monday next, the 21st.
* * * *
Tests made in the treatment of pinus
radiata (insignis) in Adelaide suggest that
this timber can be used in butter-box manu-
facture; there is no taint after butter has
been stored in it for over three months. A
trial shipment of 100 cases will be made to
the TJ.K. Should this final test.be success-
ful, the present heavy importation of soft-
wood for butter-box making will cease.
* * * *
“Kirk”: I don’t know if my increase is
a record, but the amount of tax I pay, on
the same income, derived from the same
soux-ces (mostly tax-free securities), has in-
creased by almost 1000 per cent, in the two
year's since the Scullin Government took
office And I am a semi-invalid from bone
T.B.'
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— Now that their pensions
have been cut down, why not let the old-
age and invalid pensioners earn moi'e than
the stipulated 12s. Od. a week —if they can.
The earning of a few extra bob by the old
people would hurt nobody, as it would be
generally earned in doing work which would
not be done at all otherwise. —Yours, Son of
a Cocky.
* * *
N. S. Wales would he a bit surprised if
it knew what the unemployed were really
costing it. For, of course, the expense
doesn’t stop with the dole. In some towns the
station-keeper’s wife —the station-keeper
being a policeman, of course —is allowed 2s.
per meal per man; and the local lock-up is
easily the best place to lie up to do your
washing and rest your poor feet. Which
partly explains the popularity of “jumping
the rattler.”
si: * * *
Dear B., —“Egad” says (B. 9/3/’32) that
in drawing the dole in order to keep alive
I am unjustifiably living on other people.
Well, here’s an offer t 0 “Egad.” If he’s got
any sort of job (from cooking to writing a
sermon) and cares to offer it to me, I’ll work
for him for five bob a week and keep. I
am very near to the end of the road —by
May I will have a job to go to, so if “Egad”
likes to take me as a burden off the people
until then, I’m game. —Yours etc., Gad.
sic * * *
“Eureka”: A comparison of the various
scales under the dole in N. S. Wales clearly
shows what a great administrator Mr. Lang
is. Scale “C” applies to a man, his wife
and one child; scale “B” to a man and his
wife. “B” scale allows 8 loaves of bread;
“C” scale allows 14 loaves. Therefore while
four loaves each are sufficient for a man and
his wife, a child requires six loaves, or half
as much again as an adult. “C” scale pro-
vides for 18s. Bd. worth of groceries (approxi-
mately), but “B” scale provides for only
10s. 6d. worth; therefore the child is allowed
almost as much for groceries as his mother
and father combined. In both scales the
same amount of milk is provided, yet we
hear so much about milk being indispensable
for children.
;]j '!*
“L. Liz”: “Listening Insect” (B. 2/3/’32)
declares that B wireless stations “content
themselves mainlv with tinpot jazz bands and
tenth-rate fox-trots.” Here are a few items
broadcast from 2UW in the last month or
so: Fifth Symphony (Beethoven); opera
“Romeo and Juliette” (Gounod) : one hour
with Schumann; one hour with Sir Ed.
Elgar; “Merry Widow” (all of it) ; 2nd
Symphonv (Brahms) ; “Unfinished Sym-
phony” (Schubert)— and excerpts from Men-
delssohn, Bach. Handel, Gounod, Debussy
and Tschaikowsky. Sydney B stations are,
in fact, giving us better music than the.
A’s. “Canned” most of it, I admit; but
better good music well-canned than rubbish
fresh.
FOR THE TOILERS’ PURSE.
“Premier Lang has lent the ‘Labor Daily’ £13,764 at 5 p.c. to carry on the fight against Capitalism.”
ANNOUNCER: “On my right Honest Jack Lang, the Capitalist-basher: on my left John Thomas
Lang, the Auburn Piute. The fight, which is a no-decision affair, will go on as long as you re
mugs enough to stand it.”


SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Blue Roses”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Chocolate Soldier”
King's “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
$
The Dungeon Rep. Dram. Soc. Prepares
for Action.
The acting circle of the Dungeon Rep.
Dram. Soc. has congregated for a reading of
the next production and the allocation of
roles. The budding Barrymores and Thorn-
dikes fill the stuffy and untidy studio of
“He was the hind legs of an elephant in a
panto.”
the society’s unpaid and much-imposed-upon
.scene-painter to overflowing. The moody and
unkempt' young man to whom the studio be-
longs takes no part in the proceedings, but
sulks behind a screen with a bottle ,of rum
and a tattered copy of Rabelais/ The use
of the studio in preference to the society’s
own quarters needs a little explanation, its
theatre, situated in an alleyway near the
fish markets and in the heart of the Chinese
quarter, .started life as an underground
garage. It is a dank and odorous concrete-
floored cavern, but of ctiurse' Art positively
thrives in sordid surroundings. To-night
the “theatre” is let to a Bible-class confer-
ence; hence the change of venue.
The society’s producer, Rudolph Irving
Ilamfat, is in the chair, a sagging affair of
grimy. canvas,, pinched by the painter from
a seaside municipal council. Rudolph claims
t° he an old pro., and there are probably
.still alive _ many playgoers who were pre-
sent at his last appearance, though they
dnln t see him. He was the hind legs of
an elephant in a panto. Rudolph gazes with
tired, glazed eyes at the human material at
his disposal. Mostly they are young, earnest
and tight-lipped, and their eyes hold little
but contempt for the old man.
Rudolph sighs. He has a ticklish task
ahead of him. The D.R.D.S. play selection
committee (a science teacher, a dressmaker
and an ironmonger’s accountant) have
chosen that dynamic Russian masterpiece
Serge Jmbovkurskovitch’s “Soulmates in a
’ The committee was influenced in
its choice by the' fact that the Basement
Barnstormers, product of one of theperiodi-
cal schisms in the D.R.D.S., had actually
made money the month before with another
°t Bubovkurskovitch’s opuses, “The Parri-
cides Paramour.” The great Russian
dramatist being thus manifestly in vast
popular favor, the society’s public must have
him at any cost. Although Rudolph would
* « T r Prefei ' red to be handed the script
of Up In Mabel’s Room” or “Charley’s
Aunt,’ he is not on any general prin-
ciples antagonistic towards Bubovkursko-
vitc-h. On the contrary, in fact, for the
Muscovite genius, generally peoples his plays
with anything from a score to fifty charac-
ters, and that saves Rudolph a lot of abuse.
The acting circle is large, and always con-
stitutes a majority at the annual meeting,
upon whose approval Rudolph’s job depends.
But, alas! “Soulmates in a Sewer” is an
exception to the Bubovkurskovitchian rule,
and has a cast of only five. Rudolph mops
hi s brows, runs through the typewritten
sheets he holds in his hairy paw, and coughs
for_ silence. Nobody takes thb slightest
notice, and the assembly continues to chat-
ter about birth- and girth-control, the nude
“The brunette looks as if she would like to
murder Rudolph.”
cult aud other burning topics. It is only
after determined hammering with a T-square
upon a drawing-board that Rudolph man-
ages to stem the din. Following a brief
speech extolling the play and its author,
Rudolph plunges into the task of selecting
his cast.
“What young lady can speak French?'’
he askg blandly.
The question meets with no response until
a brunette with sallow complexion and pro-
truding teeth languidly signifies that she
can parley-voo. Rudolph eyes her up and
down, groans inwardly, and says in a re-
signed voice: “Good. I think you will do
to play Madeleine.” “Who’s she?” inquires
the brunette with a smirk of pride, plea-
santly conscious of green-eyed glances from
some of the other females present.
“Madeleine?” he answers. “Oh, she’s —let
me see.” He hunts through the script, then
reads: “ ‘Madeleine enters. She is a de-
jected, depraved-looking old creature, tooth-
less and dirty, clothed in rags, and’ well,
never mind the rest. At one time she was
the Czar’s mistress, you see, but now she’s
down and out. She kills herself in the first
act. She’s there for atmosphere only, and
speaks all her lines in French.”
The brunette looks as if she would like to
murder Rudolph, half-rises to protest,
changes her. mind and sits down scowling.
She knows it isn’t ladylike to make scenes
in public, but she will give Rudolph a warm
ten minutes when she gets him alone.
, Rudolph, pleased with his apparently easy
victory, reshuffles the script. “Now for a
tall blonde who can yell like a fishwife,” he
says brightly. “No, not you, Charlotte,” to
a . long-logged, flaxed-haired flapper who
raises a skinny arm above the throng. “I’m
saving you for something else. Nor you,
Sophie,” to a gesticulating maiden with yel-
low curls. “What about you, Flora?” Flora,
red-haired and angular, yawns and shakes her
head. “Count me out, Rudolph,” she says;
“I’ve got a date with a midshipman for the
next month or so.”
Rudolph is not downcast. He owes Flora
a fat part, but she can’t act for nuts, and
her refusal, is a godsend. He then proceeds
to inveigle Claire into accepting the part.
Claire takes some coaxing, but at last
accepts. Rudolph is happy .again. Claire
always draws, a large circle of friends, and
,as Rudolph is paid by a commission on
ticket sales she is never overlooked. The
.part of Tatyana, the lead, with .“soulful
face and a divine figure,”.is entrusted to
Leah,, a. plump young Jewess with' a more-
than-incipient moustache. Her father, who
buys old gold, has promised to heavily sub-
sidise the D.R.D.S. as soon as Leah gets
a leading role. \
The : selection of the remaining two' char-
. acters—both males—causes Rudolph no
small concern. The D.R.D.S. is not rich in
male leads. There are one or two youths
with a faint glimmer of -, talent but hope-
“The budding Barrymores and Thorndikes.”
lessly effeminate in voice and gesture. The
others, are masculine enough, but gawky and
stolid,' and include, a few stage-struck . old
buffers who cam be used as faithful’butlers,
but as little else on earth. There are no
butlers in “Soulmates.” One of the char-
acters is a drunken atheist, previously a
dashing Cossack officer, and the other a
nerve-wracked young student with revolu-
tionary ideas who has lost his left arm (it
was eaten by rats in a Siberian prison).
After a great deal of diplomacy Rudolph
selects one of the younger old buffer’s, a
saturnine fellow weighing 14 stone, to play
the atheist, and the most robust’ of the girl-
ish youths as the temperamental student.
By careful coaching Rudolph hopes to be
able to prevent them from causing the audi-
ence to die of laughing.
The casting completed the producer dis-
tributes the parts to the chosen five; then
announces that the reading of the play will
begin. A number of those present, all hopes
of securing a part having vanished, remem-
ber appointments elsewhere and leave the
studio with curt apologies. From behind
the screen come sounds of deep breathing.
The host of the evening has fallen asleep.
Rudolph reads the directions, then signals
Leah to begin. She does so in a husky
whisper. “Ivan, Ivan, dearest, how softly
the snowflakes fall.”
“Now then, Gerald,” says Rudolph to
the youth who is to play the student. The
young man starts, adjusts his pince-nez,
shuffles the slips on his knees, then squeaks:
“Fling the body outside. The sight of it
sends me crazy. God, haven’t I endured
enough horrors without having to gaze upon
the lifeless carcase of a strumpet?”
“Good Lord !” exclaims Rudolph. “What
are you reading?”
Gerald consults his part again, blushes
furiously, then mumbles: “Sorry, I got the
acts mixed.”
The reading continues. None of the
readers display an ounce of interest in their
parts. They gallop through their lines,
gossip furtively with their neighbors when
not declaiming, glance significantly at
wristlet watches and pray inwardly for a
speedy finish. The assembly dwindles. By
the beginning of the third act only Rudolph,
the selected five, the slumbering person
behind the screen and a few particularly
earnest repertorians remain. Cues are missed,
passages which should have been in are dis-
covered to have been left out by the person
who typed the parts, the girls stop reading
to badger Rudolph as to wdiat they should
wear, and the clock nears midnight. By
twelve o’clock the atheist has stabbed the
lanky blonde, because she had sold a bottle
of vodka belonging to him and had bought
an ikon. with the proceeds. The atheist has
been poisoned in turn by the crazy student.
Gerald has just commenced a long quota-
tion from Karl Marx before entering into
a suicide pact with Tatyana, when the
scene-painter wakes up. Someone, it
appears, has stolen his rum and he is natur-
ally annoyed. “Which of you cows pinched
me Nelson’s Blood?” he roars threateningly,
All protest their innoce.ice but to no
avaiL Within five minutes he has cleared
“Fling the body outside. The sight of it
sends me crazy.”
the lot out of his studio. “The crooks,”
he mutters to himself when the last terri-
fied Thespian has fled. “They’ve sold me
flamin’ rum and bought a ruddy bicycle!
I heard ’em say so when I was half asleep.”
On Saturday the Firm burst into vaude-
ville at Sydney Royal, putting on a show
called “The Follies of; 1932.” The bill
abounds in smart little comedy sketches, in
which Athol Tier, ; Maurice Barling and
Betty Lambert are generally in the cast.
Minnie Love, Franki - and. Jimmie, the
Lewola Brothers, the Diabolos and the Las-
limars contribute specialty turns, and there
is a shapely-legged ballet.
* * *
Pianist Raymond Lambert, who used to
be known for an adolescent dreaminess of
expression, is back from two years of mili-
tary service in Belgium, and celebrated his
return with a concert at the Assembly Hall
in Melbourne. His programme included the
Prelude, Choral and Fugue of Cesar Franck,
and a lot of Chopin and some lesser lolli-
pops, and was not calculated to show the
young man ,to the best- advantage. Never-
theless he has acquired a quiet, dignity and
a sureness of touch that ought to stand him
in good stead when he turns to .weightier
material in the recitals planned with his
violinist father.
¥ * #
Gregan McMahon’s first offering in his
new series at Melbourne Comedy was “The
Queen’s Husband,” by Robert Sherwood, pre-
sumably the playwright who, wrqte the de-
lightful; “Road to .Rome,” put. on by Edith
Tagliafei’ro with scant assistance from the
public at the .same playhouse a year ago.
The new piece is written in the' same vein
but is more jubilant, the satire is more over-
laid by irresponsible farce,, and there is a
bogus air of romance about it. The central
figure is King Eric the Eighth (admirably
done by McMahon), who plays, . draughts
while a pompous dictator (Frank Desbfowe),
who has usurped his power, if not his crown,
mows revolutionaries down in the street out-
side with machine-guns. The King’s only
weapon for restoring.sanity in his distracted
kingdom is philosophy cloaked. in an incon-
sequential sense of humor. Although Sher-
wood appears to have no intention but to
amuse, there are .some serious portraits in
his gallery of characters. Dr. Fellman
(Fred Drew) is ,a type of the • socialistic
demagogue, and Laker (Norman E. Blacker)
is the anarchist smouldering with resent-
ment against a social system that fails to
recognise his importance. The casting of
“Which of you cows pinched me Nelson’s
Blood?”
these two was perfect. Elsa Andrew, as a
princess condemned to make a marriage of
convenience with a sprig of the neighboring
monarchy sowing his wild oats, suffered from
an ineffective delivery. Alan Goford, as
the prince, was another excellent piece of
casting. He tells his. future bride that he
could pick 12 more desirable females out of
any Parisian chorus, but handsomely offers
to marry her and to hand her over' to the
layman she is in love Avith as soon as the
business of ensuring the perpetuation of the
dynasty has been attended to. Gregan en-
joyed five nights of good houses for his pro-
duction, which was staged quite as well as
any legitimate show seen at the Comedy.
* # *
“The First Mrs. Fraser” has been run-
ning at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Brisbane,
with Ethel Morrison in the name part, Iris
Darbyshire, as the second Mrs. Fraser, and
Harvey Adams as James Fraser. Dulcie
Cherry, who has preluded the other two
plays with a musical monologue, had a
change this time and took the part of Mrs.
Fraser’s maid.
# * *
“Bitter Sweet,” the Noel Coward operetta
which ran for three years in London, will
open at Melb. Royal on Easter Saturday.
Following on “The Barretts,” the King’s
will commence “Whistling Gn the Dark,” an
toSSrfe comedy for which the Firm is
Gilli riirf>i’’o ime - lpals 'M " C ' llc sweet notes of
i f J vvll l l . be released for the
S ln . us traha at the Auditorium
appear' thfre Moiseiwitsch will also
¥ * *
box'officp I LS'°V I1 I P letG , harmony between the
wher? “<Tu. nd w he players at M elb. King’s,
wbeie The Barretts of Wimpole-street”
is attracting packed houses nightly Further
that eC Sarv° M the beSt p J tly in town reveals
tnat Jlaiy Macgregor has improved won-
derfully and that Flush, the dog now knows
her lines better. The chorus of Barrett
progeny also shares in the general improve-'
[P en; The over-acting of Gabriel Toyne
is the only discord in the smooth prodiigtkffi.-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Palette,
wWh P , a - lnt( u' . wll ° isn’t quite certain
J f e ! Io ls business is to hold a mirror
up to .Nature or to introduce to the world
entirely new standards of beauty must be
m a dickens of a quandary when lie sets
Vn,J,° ™ ako , a P/cture of Sydney from a
f or , th v V° re hen dland. There’s nothing left
do t° copy, Almost any sort of a
Py will . look effectively picturesque,
because it is after the oldest and greatest
* a , Jy .Masters, caught in his naivest
bat 14 must be a very good copy if
t is to be shown to people acquainted with
le original. lhese remarks are prompted
by a survey of the water-colors of Gwen
Barringer, lately on show at Sydney’s Mac-
quane (naileries. Miss Barringer has made
several shots at the enticing scene and they
a nL ver -I Pf e . tt: y> bat vaguely disappoint-
mg Ihe olfect is as if a backcloth had been
made oi: the city in the distance—distance
Demg suggested by the usual tricks of faint-
ness and blurriness—over which successive
nits ot bold foreground painted on card-
board, and cut out, had been pasted. Deco-
rativeiy the contrast is not amiss, but the
sense ot continuous space is lost; This is
a Pity, for the artist has resource and taste
as well as courage, and a fine sense of
color. She has an eye for the bizarre
beauty of such street scenes as are depicted
on- ° r ,. 1 Lan ? Cove Road >” with the bridge
ninng the sky, and the dramatic purport
ot those huge concrete arches that carry
the bridge approaches, oite of which makes
±o the Vehicular Punt” very impressive.
In these street scenes, as in “Kyle House,”
motor-cars of divers colors figure. It is
strange that “arty” painters, as a bunch,
neglect this perfectly lawful and appro-
priate means of getting a splash of any
desired color anywhere it is needed in a fore-
ground. Commercial artists discovered ir
dU years ago. To return to the Barringer
v ater-colors, there are some very effectively
painted flower-pieces, some rural landscapes
that are just a bit Christmas-cardy, and a
very daring study of the Hawkesbury River,
in which the coloring, whether authentic
or not, is lusciously rich.
M. Paterson-—not to be confused
with The Bulletin artist—has opened a
show of 95 assorted items at Melb.
Athenaeum. Miss Paterson is versatile in
choice of subject but uneven in achieve-
ment. One is conscious of many echoes—
echoes of Fred McCubbin and the Rowell
brothers, with some undertones of modern-
ism. In “The Mosquito,” a nude female,
whose face has apparently been trodden on
by an elephant, is engrossed in flicking an
insect off a limb that doesn’t look as if it
had enough nourishment in it to attract the
hungriest anopheles. If the automobiles in
ISo. S3, “Evening, Burwood-road,” are cor-
rectly drawn, the thoroughfare is no wider
than a city pavement, In some of the night
effects the artist confines herself to a few
simple facts, but her equipment is not yet
sufficient for most of the complicated pro-
blems she has tackled. The clay figures
show _ the same fault as the paintings. A
clinician wouH probably conclude that
(( Sleep” was a victim of the plague and that
Youth” was suffering from malnutrition.
Napier Waller, who was responsible for
the immense mural paintings of classic
figures at Melbourne Town Hall, the fresco
which brightens the bar of Menzies’ hotel,
the decoration of the new T. and G. Build-
ing and other works scattered about Mel-
bourne, has been appointed senior art teacher
at the Working Men’s College. Waller is
the leading exponent of stained-glass window
painting, and there is an example of his skill
in this direction in the Wilson Hall, at the
Universitv. He had to transfer his brush to
his left hand after he lost his right arm at
the war.
Artist John Fanner has just departed for
Europe in charge of a large group painted
by Max Meldrum at Olinda since his return
from Paris. The picture is consigned to the
Paris Salon. Farmer has also taken with
him some of the Beaumaris landscapes of
Clarice Beckett, which are bound for the
same destination.
The Seven Young Water-colorists, at Mel-
bourne Athenmum are in process of reaching
a dead-end. They are all engaged in trying
to produce pictures that look like something
before they have learnt what anything looks
like. The result is a collection of parodies of
Nature. Geoff R. Anderson, John A. Ander-
son and E. B. Heffernan have got furthest
on the road of exploration, but the distance
covered could be measured with a footrule.
C. Dudley Woods’s parrots can be enjoyed
for their decorative color.
A farewell show of James E. Plett before
he leaves for Europe is available at the
Decoration Co.’s galleries, Melbourne. The
young man is an exponent of almost every
kind of painting. A specimen in oils re-
presenting a group of fauns with white
beards like Father Christmas is a painful
exhibition of adolescent overstatement. A
water-color, No. 39, is called “Crata Gatorus
Vakeravishvoc.” It may be that, but it also
looks like a diphtheric blood-slide. A portrait,
“William Hutton,” is apparently an essay in
realistic painting, but it shows next to no
knowledge of perspective. The pirate ships
and what not come under the category of old-
fashioned illustration. Mr. Flett is obviously
a trier and a desperately hard worker, but
he is preoccupied with his job as a craft,
with the means rather than the end. There
is no attempt to define a truth or put down
something seen. He probably has more
tricks at his fingers’ ends than Titian had,
but the impression of reality is missing.


Evade the Dangers
°f
Middle Age
by drinking
COLOSEPTIC
You can take ten years from
your age! It is for you to de-
cide whether you will be ner-
vous, weak or sickly or whether
you shall glow with vitality and
health equipped to face Life’s
problems with goodwill and
good cheer. Do you suffer from
every ailment that happens?
Have you constipation, indi-
gestion, gastritis, backache,
catarrh, pimples? Do you suf-
fer from headaches, rheumat-
ism, eczema, neuritis, weakness
of any organ, gas in the
stomach and' bowels, bladder
complainjt? Have you lost your
old youthful energy? It is be-
cause you are unknowingly per-
mitting poisons that bring on
disorder and disease to remain
in your system.
No matter how regular your
daily habits, through faulty and
incomplete action of the bowels
particles of food waste become
encrusted on the walls of the in-
testine. This waste accumu-
lates and breed. 3 germ-produc-
ing poisons which enter the
blood stream, thus undermin-
ing your health—taking power
from those Life-giving organs
of Nature—making you "old”
years before your time. Most
internal sickness is now traced
to dreaded self- poisoning
( autoxima ) —the result of hid-
den, unsuspected constipation.
Be internally clean. Dislodge
this crust from the intestine and
cleanse the blood stream. Free
the system of the poisonous
waste matter. Drink COLO-
SE PT I C the simple and
prompt way to internal clean-
ness—to freedom from aches
and pains—to glorious health
and fitness to new Life new
vitality new energy. COLO-
SEPTIC acts on the intestine,
the kidneys, the pores of the
skin and the respiratory appar-
atus —Nature’s four great chan-
nels for the disposal of impur-
ities from the body. Test the
powers of COLOSEPTIC by
sending 1/- in stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPT.IC CO. LTD.
(Dept. 8.4.), 10 O’Connell
Street, Newtown, N.S.W. for a
Special Demonstration Jar and
the valuable health booklet
“Autoxima.” COLOSEPTIC is
sold in regular full-sized jars at
all Chemists and stores.
mg
PL
Pj 1
3
mm 3
L\
9
JH mm
XJ
VM
4Of n '. y
ggggg
Hw
Announcing
IMPROVEMENTS!
r-il II
• New 4-speed Gear
Box . .
• New Heavier Front
Spring
• New Stronger Front
Cross Member
jpOLLOWING the Ford policy of con-
stant improvement, important new
features of the 30 cwt. Truck are now
introduced.
4-speed Gear Box with Power
Take-off . . . gives greater pulling power
... 5 ball and roller bearings reduce friction
... In all forward speeds, the entire drive
(from engine to wheels) is on ball or roller
bearings ... A Power Take-off is provided
for tipping or for belt-work operations.
Stronger Front Cross Member . . .
Heavier 2y Front Spring . . . Ford
Truck front suspension is re-designed and
strengthened, giving greater rigidity and
sturdiness. Radiator, engine,
clutch and transmission are re-
lieved from road strains
• • •
Notable features of the Ford 30
CWt . Truck . . . Engine develops 40
b.h.p. at only 2200 revs, per minute, and
128 lbs. torque at 1000 r.p.m., giving tre-
mendous pulling power at road wheels at
low engine speeds.
Torque-tube drive and rigid radius-rod
construction relieves springs of all driving
strain, keeps axles in correct alignment
under all conditions, allows positive setting
of brakes and greatly reduces tyre wear.
Special truck-type, heavy-duty clutch. Two
chassis sizes: 131|" wheelbase for 9' x 6'
bodies; 157" wheelbase for bodies 11'6"
x 6'6".
Special malleable steel wheels, with dual
rear wheels, are optional at extra
cost ... these improve traction
and allow increased payloads*
g
THE BRITISH EMPIRE TRUCK
Prices from £230 f.o.b. nearest Ford Works; Sales Tax Extra*
FORD MOTOR
COMPANY
0 F
AUSTRALIA
PT Y .
NO 55
LTD
SHADOW SHOWS.
Strange things happen in M.-G.-M.’s
“Possessed,” at Sydney St. James Theatre.
In 1928 Joan Crawford was a hick-town
factory lass who couldn’t even understand
menu‘French. Three years later, as Mrs.
Moreland, mistress of Clark Gable, million-
aire, of New York, she dresses like a fash-
ionable Frenchwoman, only more so, organ-
ises his elaborate dinner-parties and sings in
French and American t<? her own accompani-
ments—and not badly, either. Comes a day
when his friends persuade him to run for
Governor. Now New York politicians have
to be pure. With a breaking heart she tells
him that slie loves, and means to marry,
Wallace Ford, an exasperatingly self-satis-
fied proletarian who used to work in the
factory with her. Wild with jealousy he
strikes her full in her anguished face, for,
having no experience of talkie plots, he
doesn’t suspect that she is sacrificing herself
for his career. The big scene shows him
addressing the electors. The opposition has
printed thousands of dodgers inscribed “Who
Is Mrs. Moreland?” and at the right time
they are showered on the crowd. It looks
as if the wowser vote had gone west when
Joan (who has been dropped by Mr, Ford
for immorality) rises in the body of the
hall and delivers a speech in support of
companionate marriage. It creates what the
papers probably describe, next day, as a
furore. Some things that make lier, effort
all the more meritorious are that she seems
to have had no previous experience of public
speaking, and that her appeal is made from
the floor of a building as big as London's
Albert Hall. They are still cheering for
free love when she and her man come to grips
outside. A silly story, and Miss Crawford and
Clark Gable are badly cast in it. She uses
her fine eyes and teeth too much for the
shrinking little lovebird she is supposed to
be; and there is a quality of formidableness
about Gable which unfits him for the role
of a fashionable young’ Now Yorker—one
that calls chiefly for suave manners, sleek
evening clothes and a deft hand with syphons
and cigarette-lighters. AH the others are
sound, particularly Skeets Gallagher as a
drunk, and the dialogue is smart.
The St. James is also offering “Any Old
Port,” one of the funniest Laurel and
Hardys to date. There is some panto-
mime _in a prize ring which is as good as
anything in the fight scene of “City Lights.”
* * #
“The Sentimental Bloke,” the latest out-
pouring of the Thring muse, which was
given a pre-sliowing at Melb, Plaza last
week, has the advantage of some brilliant
photography by Arthur Higgins, efficient
sound production by Mill, and an arresting
series of subtitles culled from the verses of
C. J. Dennis. Its chief faults arise from the
attempt to reconcile the traditions estab-
lished firstly by Dennis’s poem and secondly
by the stage play that was built upon it.
The yarn suffers from a lack of continuity.
There are some great moments, but
there are gaps where action is urgently
demanded. Some of the minor characters
are passengers when they ought to be.
pulling on the oars. Ginger Mick (Tal
Ordell) is the best bit of characterisation.
He follows the line of the legitimate version.
The Bloke (Cecil Scott) is not a bloke in
any realistic sense of the word, though he
is sentimental enough to fulfil all reasonable
requirements of romantic fiction. Tliou-
sands-of real blokes will no doubt accept him
as a true portrait of themselves, however.
Ray Fisher (Doreen) makes a convincing
figure of the most priggish heroine in Aus-
tralian literature, who w r eans the Bloke from
lash and liquor and makes a respectable
farmer and a devoted father of him. The
best portions of the film are the raiding of
the two-up school and the visit of Doreen
and the Bloke to “Romeo and Juliet,” where
the Bloke draws comparisons between the
push law of Footscray and the push law
of Verona. Both productionally and photo-
graphically these scenes could hardly be bet-
tered. The shorts are excellent.
tf, #
“Dance Team” (Fox), at Sydney Regent,
is the story of the rise, fall and renaissance
of a pair of professional ballroom dancers,
Jimmy Mulligan (James Dunn) and Poppy
Kirk (Sally Filers). Poppy sprains her
ankle, and Jimmy sells snveloys to keep the
wolf away. The tide turns and they become
famous. Success goes to their heads. Jimmy
bends his elbow too much and Ponnv has
visions o? marVng ZneY M.O pStner
Ship is wrecked when Jimmy, jealous of
Poppy’s attachment to a young millionaire,
picks a fight with the gilded youth. The
rest is slop
On the same bill is “Local Boy Makes
Good’’ (First National), a comedy with an
American college setting. As John Miller, a
chicken-hearted botany student whose weak-
iaugh-laScr’ ,4 * R “ I ' e prt ” dpal
B lamer.
In "Other People’s Sins” fSvdnpv TTiv
tnC v 1 e .°P le s feins tfeyaney Hay-
maiket), a barristers beautiful wife (Anne
f a « hes f a Playwright with a paper-
Tffinp P U a e i he % h ?, no1 '- da s cs fro! ? .1 IS
office and finds her father waiting; outside,
Her father enters the office m Ins turn, and
is seen leaving. _ He tells his daughter that
the playwright is dead, but if she will pay
his bills thereafter he will take the blame,
The husband (Stewart Rome) defends him,
and pa is acquitted. He finds his daughter
has confessed to hubby, who now doubts her
faithfulness. Pa proves that he was the
killer, and the reunited couple pension him
off and send him to the Riviera. Made by
P.D.C.-Stoll, the piece is very talkative, and
action drags in places, but Horace Hodges’s
study of an old spendthrift redeems it.
* * *
“Delicious” (Fox), at Sydney Plaza, has
as garnishing to a very conventional love
story some amusing clowning by El Brendel
as a Swedish valet, and two fantastic inter-
ludes, one depicting the Scotch heroine’s
dream of how New York will welcome her
and the other a series of shots of the big
city’s night life. Janet Gaynor and Charles
harrell are up to their usual standard and
the rest of the cast fitted in well.
“Private Lives” (M.-G.-M.), Noel
Coward’s comedy, at Sydney State, abounds
in situations and dialogue that keep
the audience laughing - . The fun arises from
the complications which follow when a
divorced couple, Amanda (Norma Shearer)
and Elyot (Robert Montgomery), after re-
marrying, find themselves sharing adjoining
suites in a French hotel. Amanda is hitched
to Victor (Reginald Denny), a pompous ass
and Elyot bound to Sibyl (Una Merkel), a
fretting blonde. The acting of the four prin-
cipals leaves nothing to be desired.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Uly*ses . . 14,500 tons, April 23
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ May 3
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ June 13
fThemistocles 12,500 ~ Sept. 6
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman’ - —BJ hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR B\ THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
g
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
i i
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
trom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Hamer” ; Some friends, owners of a cat
whose prowess as a i hunter is their pride,
were amused at watching the animal (a
matron) train its offspring in the way
they should go. Daily it brought some prey
into camp and encouraged the kittens to
deal with it whilst mother looked on. The
indifference of one of them evidently caused
Russ perturbation; she would place a half-
dead mouse directly in front of this kitten
and urge the dull offspring on by pushing
it towards the game with its paw, but even
when pushed right on to the game the kitten
turned indifferently away. One night Puss
was seen carrying a kitten into the night. It
was thought that the feline matron had
decided to change its quarters; but in the
morning the family was in its old possie—
with one missing. That one was found
drowned in an open drain in the poultry
yard. Puss had evidently decided that one
that threatened to dishonor the family tradi-
tion was not worthy of being reared.
“Waranbini”: Binghi is commonly re-
garded as an improvident nomad who makes
no provision for to-morrow. But there are
at least two things, in addition to grain
foods, that he stores for future use. When
the bunya pine is in full bearing, bushels
of the fruit are gathered for the periodical
bunya feast, and the surplus is buried in
sand; and in the egg season, when thou-
sands of ducks, swans and geese are laying
in and around the big swamps, hundreds
of the eggs that are collected are carefully
stored for byland-bye. Each egg is dipped
in melted fat, and placed in a shallow
trench or a wide round hole made in the
sand ; and there the collection is covered and
left till the community returns to the place,
perhaps weeks later. Sometimes, when fat
is scarce, the eggs are dipped in a thick
liquid mud, and the coating allowed to set
before being buried. This does not last
as long as the fat.
* * ❖
“Mundowie”: Dry growth around the
homestead is always a menace, and neglect
to cut it or burn it off is simply courting
disaster. I remember a Riverina settler
of some years ago riding off one hot day
to help his neighbors, who were fighting
a big blaze a few miles away. When he
returned, hours later, his house, sheds
and haystacks had been destroyed, and his
family was sheltering miserably in a water-
hole. One day’s work in mowing the grass
and weeds would have made the place safe.
“C. Coral”: The hillside cemetery at
Thursday Island was invaded by a large
crowd of Torres Strait islanders the other
day. They came to unveil a cement mem-
orial (island-made) over the grave of Muara
Lifu, from Darnley Island. She was a South
Sea Island woman, of handsome presence and
fine physique, who was one of the survivors
of the terrible cyclone which sank about
eight boats and caused the death of 300 men
off’ Cape Melville in 1899. Muara was then
a vigorous young woman and a fine swim-
mer, and she saved the lives of at least two
men by swimming with them supported on
her back. For this she was awarded a medal.
* * * *
“Kooragai” : That “strange wild animal,”
now definitely described as a tiger, con-
tinues to appear intermittently m dif-
ferent parts of N. S. Wales. It killed five
THE END OF THE CHAPTER.
“Quite a little forest, Mary.”
“By. cripe, Missus! But my hopem these twins belonga boundary-fence.”
pigs and a num-
ber of turkeys
in the Temora
(N.S.W.) dis-
trict ; and sim-
ultaneously, or
thereabouts, it
was seen by
several sober
res i d ents of
Running Creek,
on the upper
Mi 11 a Mitta
Rive r. Th e
striped mystery
was first re-
ported from
C o o t a mundra
about five years
ago, when sev-
eral dogs, sheep,
kangaroos and a
heifer were de-
stroyed by it;
and last year
it wa s re-
ported from the
T a n t a w anglo
mountains and
the Tantawan-
glo River. In
the interval
hunting parties
have scoured
various locali-
ties near Wal-
lenbeen; one
fired three shots
at a beast 6ft.
long and 2ft.
Gin. high. The
story is told
that a couple of
tiger cubs es-
caped from Bill-
ion’s circus and
menagerie while
the caravan was
camped at Dingi
in September.
1926, and many
people believe
that the terrors
are prowling
separately in
different parts.
The scare re-
calls the Tan-
tanoola “tiger,”
which had such
a long innings in
the Mount Gambier (S.A.) district that it
was regarded as a myth, or a fantod. Eventu-
ally it was shot, and proved to be an
Assyrian wolf, which was supposed to have
escaped from a travelling menagerie, or
come ashore from a wreck.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Many men in the bush have
resorted to blood-drinking to relieve thirst,
but I don’t think it has ever helped any-
body. In the summer of 1901 Jack Edwards,
who attempted a dry stretch of 70 miles
between Blair Athol (N.Q.) and Alpha,
drank his own blood
from a cut wrist, and
when found next day
said he had got no re-
lief from it. Clark, a
Coongee (N.S.W.)
stockman, left a muster-
ing camp for the home-
stead, 26 miles distant.
ITis horse was found
with its throat cut, and
near the .saddle a quart-
pot of dried blood and
a blood-stained pocket-
knife. He had got no
help from the drink and
had left it to perish.
About the same time
drover Harry Hopkins
and his son perished on
their way to the Ran-
kine River (Q.). Around
them lay four dead
horses, one with its
throat cut, and a billy-
can showed that it had
been used to catch the
animal’s blood. They
died only six miles
from water, on Austral
Downs. In the remark-
able disaster to the
mail coach between
Powell’s Creek and An-
thony’s Lagoon in 1902,
when the driver, Stibe,
a passenger named
Hare, a lubra and a
blackboy perished, seven
dead horses and a quart-
pot containing dried
blood were found.
These, too, died only
six miles from water.
If evidence points any
way at all, it is that
blood-drinking increases thirst and acceler-
ates the craziness associated with its extreme
form.
EXPLAINED.
THE OLD UN: “On a desert island we was, with nothin’ but a case
of corffee.”
THE YOUNG ’UN : “What?”
THE OLD 'Un: “Corffee, corffee —wot yer make tea with!”
“Adelaide”: An odd outrage in Adelaide
was the cutting off of the flowing mane and
tail of F. E. Fischer's Shro.wdh.ead, a noted
horse at shows. The thief got about ten-
bobs’ worth of horsehair, and spoiled for the
show-ring, for at least a year, the winner of
50 trophies with over £2OOO of prize-money.
* ❖ •!»
“Plato M.” : There's a black Minorca hen
up Eltham (M.L.) way which has something
to cluck about. Recently she strutted off
proudly from her nest leaving behind her
an egg weighing 4§oz., with a circumference
of seven inches and a length of four inches.
A duck in the same district produced, pre-
sumably in a spirit of friendly rivalry, an
egg weighing 340 z. and in. in circum-
ference.
* * * *
“M.L.C.” : When the bottom fell out of the
wool market last year the Imperial Wool
Conference in London urged scientists to
explore fresh outlets for the use of wool. A
book just published by Dr. Barker, Director
of the Research Association at Torrington
(Eng.), shows the remarkably successful
results of this inquiry—not only has it been
found possible to manufacture from wool
beautiful soft leathers suitable for boots,
suitcases, gloves, upholstery for motor-cars,
etc., but also a patent leather warranted un-
crackable. In addition, a wool fabric for
insulating electric- cables is superseding
cotton on account of its less inflammable
qualities. Also it is anticipated that before
long woollen wallpapers will be all the rage.
* * * *
“E.S.”: The most interesting place on the
Broken Hill-Cobar line is Mt. Gipps, which
was a squattage long before the first
miner’s shack was built at the Hill, then
a part of the run. Almost the whole his-
tory of the Barrier Ranges is wrapped in
that old homestead, and its books contain
many notable names. Among those who
worked ou started out on their various
careers there were George Kidman, stock-
man, drover, miner and butcher, and Sid
Kidman, now a knight and maybe a million-
aire, who was bullock-driving and rouse-
abouting at Mt. Gipps for 10s. a week. It
was there that Sid learned to ride buck-
jumpers, and from there he graduated to
drover and mail-carrier. Others who fore-
gathered on Mt. Gipps were Charlie Rasp,
who discovered the Silver Hill while bound-
ary-riding ; Fred Trollope, son of Anthony
Trollope, and Edward Bulwer Lytton
Dickens, son of Charles the novelist. Ted
Dickens later represented the Corner in
N.S.W. Parliament for five and a half years.
He is buried at Moree.
OLD JUNEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For me the name of Old Junee
Sings liltingly, and I can see
A town of dream, a little town
Where dappled streets wind up and down,
And honeysuckle blossom falls
In springtime over garden walls,
While grave grey houses neighborly
Watch out the years in Old Junee,
My Old Junee of fantasy.
In Old Junee, in Old Junee—
Such magic wreathes the name for me—
Romance .should walk in shining shoon
O' nights beneath a lovers’ moon,
Golden and high in Austral skies,
And girls with laughing lips and eyes
Dancp with light feet, and there should be
Great kindly trees and shadowy,
And melody in Old Junee.
But maybe the reality,
The plain authentic Old Junee,
Is dull and dusty, Hades-hot.
I know not if the Lord forgot
To give it loveliness to wear
Day-dawn and eve, but this I swear,
The lilting lyric name for me
In melody and imagery
Raises a gracious Old Junee.
N.S.W.
A. SMITH.


“Notes for Cold”
r yf£wmaris«i
GIVE HIGHEST PRICES FOR
OLD GOLD, JEWELLERY, etc.
If you cannot call, send by Registered
Post. We will submit cash offer
without obligation. Don’t accept
any offer until you get ours.
289 Collins Street, Melbourne
(One door from Elizabeth Street;
next E., S. & A. Bank).
TAKE STOCK
Isn’t a periodical stocktaking of your private income and
expenditure as necessary to your success as the similar action
you regard as imperative in your business?
The difference between your personal expenses and your
income is your personal profit, and calls for the same wise
planning as must be given to a business.
Take stock now, thus early in the year, of your assets and
income, and of your certain and possible expenses. It will
enable you to spend wisely as well as to save wisely, and the
result should be a healthy Savings Bank balance.
Cbrnmonwcaltl) Savinas JBankof Hustralla
C Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
“Fae Mai”: There has been much argu-
ment in the Abo. column about the so-called
Kuku-kuku natives of New Guinea, and
especially those infesting the foothills of
south-western Papua. Many years ago when
these curiously aloof nomads were first brought
into contact with the Government, the then
Resident Magistrate followed the customary
Papuan method of sending a few prisoners to
the gaol at Port Moresby, there to be in-
structed, in the blessings of civilisation. The
REFERENCES.
“You are of no present occupation, you tell me. What did you do last?”
“Six months, yer Honor.”
scheme worked wonders with other tribes, but
it has fallen flat with the Kuku-kuku. The
early batch, returned to their native wilds,
plunged at once into their jungle fastnesses
and were never heard of again, nor did their
people show any signs of regeneration or
inclination to be on friendly terms with the
Government taubadas. Another batch
recently came to Port, and these have, appa-
rently, been as deaf to the blessings afore-
said as tbe firSt lot In any case ’ they eSCa P ed
f ro m g and> though they come of
people who have no knowledge of water trans-
port, stole a large punt and ferried them-
selves to the western side of the harbor,
whence they started on the long walk home-
wards. . They were recaptured, of course.
The punt they pinched is the one utilised for
the Port Moresby sanitary .service, which
was a bit dislocated during the couple of
days it was missing.
* * * *
“Macti”: One of Thursday Island’s
anglers landed a curious fish recently. About
7i n . long, it was of bluish tint, with white
belly and slender. Along the back ran a
g n) ' which towards the neck developed large
proportions. A large fin projected from
either side of the neck, with a folded fin
beneath, and the tail spread out fanwise.
Excepting for the absence of a spike or
sword> an( j f or a difference in the tail, it
seemed to resemble the Indian sailfish, speci-
mells of w hi c h i iavG been captured in Torres
Strait at rare intervals. One caught off
Y orke Island was Bft. 6in. in length, with
a tail-fin 2ft. 6in. across. On being hauled
in at the end of the towline it suddenly
erected its sail and side fins, and caused the
native lad to let go suddenly with the ex-
ciamation, “Devil he come!” It was safely
brought aboard, but none of the boys would
* . ,* ~
eat an £ palt 0t * * *
“Tuner”: A Stevenson relic has turned up
in Auckland in the shape of an upright piano
w j dc b used to be part of the furniture of
Vailima. The instrument was specially
budt *9 withstand the Samoan climate. It
IS . by the not-very-well-ki own Stuttgart firm
of Doerner und Solin, and very old-fashioned,
with gilt candle-sconces and handles. Pro-
bab\y pic^LV?
hand m Suva or Apia. Certainly it was
“ ade for a musician who knew what it would
be U P a S amst < for there is no glue in its
framework, everything being screwed doubly
secure instead. The iron frame is particu-
larly massive and its timber backing twice
, as strong as in ordinary pianos. Ihe relic
1S S oin £ a London firm that specialises in
Stevensonian mementoes.
" „ . , " .... ~ ,
Murrungurry : An abo. superstition that
scenis to be general m all parts of the coun-
try is that the spirit of a dead tribesman
miglit come back and do harm to the living
if his name were mentioned. For that reason
when a kinsman has been buried liis native
same is buried with him and is never spoken
again. The memories of great warriors and
leaders of the long ago are preserved in
stories in which they are known by names
given after death. At birth little Binghi
is given a baby name; at the bora ceremony
he gets his man name; when he passes out he
is given a dead name for reference, and the
other name is dropped. As he is not told
what his third moniker is going to be, his
spirit is not supposed to know that it refers
to him when it is mentioned. To white
people the defunct may have been all his
life just Fryirigpan or Charcoal, his native
titles being known only to the tribe.
* * Sc
“Pick”: Comical facial expressions and
eccentric behavior characterise the dolts of
the farmyard. On Bibbenluke station
(N.S.W.) they had an imbecile bullock. He
had a leery countenance, wouldn’t mix with
his mob, and couldn’t be wheeled by the
stockmen. When the cattle-dogs chewed at
his heels he reeled drunkenly, and seemed to
regard their attentions as play. He finally
starved to death with his simpleton head
stretched over an angle post, too foolish to
back a yard and extricate his lean body. A
cranky shdep may be readily distinguished
among thousands. With purposeless de-
meanor and nose held high, lie meanders as
if constantly mounting a steep bank, and he
circles every few paces in his march. A
mentally-affected horse wanders aimlessly
about the paddock, neglects to feed, and dies
of extreme emaciation in the midst of plenty.
On the dairy farm where once I yakkered
long hours for short renmneration they kept
a crazy duck. Her clownish antics at feed-
ing-time were a diversion from the laborious
routine.
* * * #
“Bill R.”: Leaving out shearing, crutching
and lamb-tailing, the hut-dwellers at Cun-
ningham, on the Gippsland Lakes (Vic.),
follow’ pretty well the routine of the western
sheepmen—mustering, drafting, pad-
docking and fence-renovating. Their
runs are the lakebeds; thefr yards
—enclosed with mudbanks and brush
—the shallows of the tidal fiats;
their stock the fish o£ the Pacific.
Rounding up the flocks in their 3000-
yard nets, they yard them into the
banked-off areas, and then draft the
various species into smaller pad-
docks by driving them along water
races—the trevalli into one, the
mullet into another, and so on. In
the work they have able assistance
from their fish-dogs. These flounder
and bark and splash behind, and
keep up the stragglers trying to
hide in the mud and seaweeds.
Brush-gates close the paddocks when
drafting is finished, and the flocks
are held there till selected for the
Melbourne market. Dingoes bring
no diversion to the Cunningham
boundary-riders, but the depredations of the
water-rats make up for that deficiency.
sS $ * *
“Kell B.”: “Australian Malo” was wrong
when he lately told us that “every
experienced horseman knows that the most
comfortable way of riding is with the feet
thrust well through the stirrups.” When I
was taught to ride, 40 years ago, by Ted
McDonald, one of the finest stockmen and
rough-riders in Queensland, that was the
first thing I was told not to do. The man
who keeps the sole of his boot in the
stirrups will ride a horse further with-
out making it weary than the rider who
either can’t keep his foot in that position
in an iron stirrup or is too weak to stand
“the strain on the muscles of the leg caused
BEDTIME MEDITATIONS.
“I miss t’ ol’ woman She do miss me, too, I s’poase... yes, she've often missed
me... Poor shot, t’ ol’ woman was—God bless ’er.”
by riding by the toes.” It is just that strain
and the spring in the ankle-joint which
make all the difference to the horse—that
and the spring with the knee-joint. Fur-
ther, it makes all the difference to the rider,
who is never stiff and sore, like the one
who rides with his legs straight. It was the
straight-leg riding of jockeys which per-
mitted the other extreme —the Tod. Sloan
crouch —to become popular, for while the
crouch takes most of tin? spring from the
knee, it is better than none at all. .As
“Worsted Spur” said, no one can “lift” a
horse by the way he rides, but with the
spring of both the ankle-joint and the knee-
joint, with the leg straight down from the
knee, he can lift a wonderful lot of
his own weight from the horse over a
jump and each time it rises in a canter or
gallop.
Jj: Jjt
“Mundowie”: North of the Lake district
which lies back of Spencer’s Gulf many
curious formations occur that are known as
mound lakes. They are- composed of earth and
mineral matter that have been carried up
through centuries by the springs, and some
of them are 50ft. high. On and around
the mounds are thick growths of trees, reeds
and rushes, making the mounds visible at
a long distance. When the water volcanoes
are “active” the water flows over the high
mounds into channels, and here and there
forms lakes on the level. Some of them
are fresh, others are salty, though not too
much so for animals to drink. Water vol-
canoes occur also in many parts of Queens-
land^ —mostly in the form of bottomless wells,
wflth small mounds around them. The near-
est I know is Mud Springs; not far from
Mt. Hutton homestead, where a narrow flat
is so pitted with wells, each with a low,
bare mound around it, that it resembles an
old mining field. In other parts, some of
the wells are covered with a matting of
grass. Stock that feed on them are apt to
drop through, and travellers have lost their
horses in that way. A stockman told me
that they drop so far down that the smell
of the carcases never reaches the top. Pro-
bably they are buried deep in mud; and
perhaps more than one traveller “last heard
of” in those death-trap regions found the
same grave.
WHEN THE BATTERY TORKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In fifty years it’s been my luck some sturdy
optimists to know ;
I’ve never found another one to touch old
Jillawarra Joe.
I see him still, all grit and dust, his battered
hat festooned with corks,
And hear the phrase he’d made his own, “You
wait until the battery torks.”
Whiskered and tanned and gnarled and bent,
he’d “follered gold” his whole life
through.
The blanks were-many, he’d admit, the prizes
far between and few.
But his the hope that’s never quenched, the
sanguine spirit nothing baulks;
With each successive claim he tried ’twas
“Wait until the battery torks.”
I doubt old Joseph ever worked more than
a ci’eaking windlass show;
With one beneath and one atop the tiny
dump would slowly grow.
But often as he eyed the stuff his eye would
glisten like a hawk’s.
H'e saw, ’twas clear, a rich reward awaiting
“when the battery torks.”
Though other chaps might shake their heads
and hazard half a dozen ’weights
Would be about the maximum that he could
hope for on the plates,
He always had his answer pat. “It ain’t the
glitt’riug quartz that chalks
The prettiest crushing up,” he’d say. “You
wait until the battery torks.”
The stampers always spoke at last, but they
were seldom words of cheer;
I never knew them tell the tale that Joe
was certain sure he’d hear.
Ah, well 1 he had to take the chance that
all must do who Fortune stalk
By sinking shafts and raising stone. The
talk that counts is battery talk.
He’s safe upon the Golden Shore, I’ll bet, by
now in any event.
Be sure his soul was high-grade rock, how-
ever light his crushings went.
It doesn’t always richest prove the stuff
that makes the bravest show.
They’ll need no ten-head mill to test the
worth of Jillawarra Joe.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1534.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST,
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
\ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ST. LAWREHCE ROUTE
DUCHESS STEAMER
/M
m
'TT'HE Regai Duchess Ships of the
A Canadian-Pacific Atlantic Fleet give
a new conception of ocean travel, and a
fitting finish to a journey of delight from
Australia to England. They have speed, of
course: lots of space for recreation; de-
lightful appointments and comforts, and
the renowned C.P.R. cuisine and personal
service. C.P.R. travellers enjoy the
luxury of these vessels on the short
Atlantic seaway to England. Write for
literature tr „ D , c
C&n&didn * cLCinCf
247 George Street, Sydney.
8/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
C.P.R. Steamers take
the sheltered St. Law-
rence seaway, and cut
two days off the open
Atlantic crossing.
Zfhe World's GreafestDrove! System
SMOKE-OH!
SHAPING THEIR ENDS.
“The spectacle of a self-respecting woman comb-
ing back her tresses as she walks up Collins-street
must always hold its shudder for the fastidious.
Equally appalling is the spectacle of the business
girl doing her morning manicure in the tram.”
-—Melbourne “Age .”
Ah! give the modern maids their dues —
They paint their pretty faces;
And nearly all are wont to use
Their combs in public places.
They manicure their nails in trams,
They shore their shapely knecs-es,
They're minus shifts, though full of shams —
Hut, gosh, how each one pleases!
* *
One of the few things that can be said for
the Communists is that their methods are
all riot.
¥ ¥
“The modern girl is ultra-busy.”— “Sun.”
Surprising! They never seem to have
much on when we see them.
* *
Another nasty one for poor old Sydney:—
*‘Sir Robert Garran, the new K. 0., formerly
Solicitor-General for the Commonwealth, announced
in the Full Court yesterday that he had not prac-
tised at the Bar in Sydney for 30 years. The
Court congratulated him.” — llris. “Daily Mail.”
* ¥
SOURCE OF REVENUE.
The Deputy P.M.G. rubbed his hands.
Business was booming. At the present rate
the depression—so far as liis department was
concerned, at all events —would soon be
a nightmare of the past. His joy-
ous reverie was broken by a tap at the
door. The chief telegraphist walked in.
“It looks as if we’ll have to rig up an
auxiliary line to Canberra, sir,” he said.
“Another 20,000-word telegram from the
Premier to Mr. Lyons. We’re seven mes-
sages behind now, totalling 147,000 words.
NO NEED TO TELL ALL THE TRUTH.
MEG: “Oh, it’s you all right, Peg—the
camerd can’t lie.”
PEG : “No—but I don’t think it need have
been so beastly candid.”
By the way, have you a dictionary of clas-
sical quotations and a copy of Bullfinch’s
Mythology? We’re stumped on some of his
latest quotations.”
* *
With pompous mien and head erect
And. swelling chest he walks,
And as 1 watch him, richly decked,
I know that money stalks!
PURIFYING THE LANGUAGE.
Australia’s Board of Language Censors
made good progress at their weekly meeting
last night, several widely-used and revolting
terms being added to the Index.
Farmers are not to be allowed to have
“dams” on their properties. Such struc-
tures must henceforth be referred to as
“dashes” under penalty of a fine of not
less than £lOO and confiscation of dash. The
word “dam” is also to be prohibited in
respect to stock, the term “maternal parent”
being made compulsory in its stead. Penalty,
£5O and/or confiscation of maternal parent.
The Rev. 'Whimper reported that quarry-
men and engineers were in the habit of
frequently “blasting” objects. (Cries of
“Shame!” and “Oh, fie!”) This practice
will henceforth be illegal until a less offen-
sive term is found for it. Similarly blast
furnaces all over the country must be closed
down until renamed. The National Gallery
has been forbidden to “hang” pictures, and
the works of Scott and Dickens have been
banned from circulation, as giving rise to
the obscene expressions “Great Scott!” and
“What the Dickens?”
A serious view was taken of the word
“blank,” which, it was pointed out by Sister
Moan, might mean simply anything!
(Shivers.) Blank cartridges and blank verse
are now forbidden, as is also the game of
dominoes, said to involve the use of the
abominable “double-blank.” It is hoped that
in the course of time a race of entirely
deaf, dumb and blind Australians will be
evolved. “Not till then,” said the chairman
cheerfully, “will our jobs conn* to an end.”
* *
Bradman seems to be one of these hit-
run drivers.
* ¥
“Things are tough all right,” said Mr.
Newlywed as his bride passed him the
steak.
¥ *
Rufe Naylor and Tom Bavin have one
thing in common anyhow: they both cater
for bob-ins.
* *
COUNTRY JOYS.
If you’ve gathered apple-charlotte from
the laden apple-trees, or have watched the
pickled gherkins growing ripe; if you’ve
milked the golden honey from the prize
Italian bees, and seen the sporting sniping
of the snipe; if you’ve tasted nice fresh
butter where the buttercups are grown, seen
the cows, adorned with cowslips, and the
geese as they do the goose-step proudly, do
you wonder that I moan for the glory of
the country and its peace?
Oh, with hopes of beer that’s coming, to
observe the wild storm brew, to help to gin
the cotton with a laugh, to join the artist
fellows as the forest trees they hew, or to
feed the merry animals with clutff (I have
saved up all the chaff I know that comic
papers print) ; to lie at leisure in my
apricot, to gather pocket money as I wander
through the mint—-that’s the simple life
I’m wanting for my lot!
I have never seen the country, but my
heart is feeling sore —all this silly city
routine seems a nark —
for the taste of sw’eet
strawberries freshly gar-
nered from the straw,
and the rising in the
morning for a lark. So,
quite shortly, I’ll be
going where the oyster
beds are fair and the
paddymelon hangs upon
its vine. The “ho!”
with which I’ll hoc the
land will smite the ripe
wheat’s ear, for there a sweet contentment
will be mine!
Pehcy Pawnticket.
* *
Mary had a little lamb.
And, though the thing’s all over,
The lamb, poor devil, still pays up,
While Mary lives in clover.
THE INSIDE DOPE.
I am in a position to give the true facts
about the mysterious animal which has been
terrorising the people of Bright f Vic.),
jumping on the backs of horsemen and tear-
ing them with its claws, thrusting its tusks
into cows and frightening old ladies into
hysterics. It is definitely not a bunyip.
Hector, Victoria’s last bunyip, died childless.
As for the rumor that it is the Tantanoola
Tiger, I helped to catch that creature myself
by painting a picture of a company promoter
on a board. The tiger leapt on the effigy
thinking it was the real thing, its claws
were driven through the board, and my
father, a skilled carpenter, clinched them
with a hammer, after which we took the
animal home. My mother trained it to
domestic service arid it proved an efficient
cook till its death from old age. I still
use its skin as a hearthrug.
The reports about the Bright beast’s be-
havior have been exaggerated. As an example
of its gentle and obliging w r ays when not
annoyed by the refusal of the authorities
to put it on the dole, some Bright children
accidentally trod on it in the bush recently,
whereupon it grasped its feet in its. hands,
turned itself into a hoop and allowed the
children to bowl it about. Its strange cries
are not due to ferocity, but to its disordered
mind. The fact is it is Mr. Lang.
The thing that is causing all the trouble in
Sydney is a dummy worked by strings from
the Trades Hall. When Mr. Garden dis-
covered that his master had gone he asked
J.C.W.’s robes mistress to make an efficient
substitute, and she completed the contract
in a single night. The Premier is suffer-
ing from repressions and an inferiority com-
plex induced by the scornful attitude of the
Loan Council. If he is duly elected to the
Melbourne Club at its next ballot meeting, as
is confidently expected in Toorak, there is
no reason why he should not be restored
to the people of Sydney, capable of many
more years of uselessness.
Cauboy.
* *
“Elaborate dressing is not necessary or even
desirable, but society demands neatness from its
devotees.”— “Sun.”
No woman, for instance, can hope to
cbmb socially on the ladders in her stock-
ings.
Racing Terms Explained.—“ First Past the
Post.”
DE JURE.
“Taking exception to inelevancies in a rather
wearisome debt claim, at Ballarat, Judge Woinarski
observed: ‘What the deuce does it matter ? There is
no jury here we are not a lot of fools. You must
give us credit for some intelligence.’ ” — “Age.”
His Honor is charming, urbane and polite
When charging the good men and true.
His mien to the jury is grave and demure —he
Implies they are sure to be right.
But when there’s no jury to bask in his
smile,
His Honor is apt to speak plainly,
And hint that the jury he cannot endure—he
Protests that the fools cramp his style.
* *
HIS GOOD DEED.
The unemployed musician was doing awful
things with a saxophone when a man in the
crowd detached himself and started taking
up a collection. The response was willing.
Soon he had a well-filled hat. He approached
the musician, said a few words, and was
handed the saxophone. His next move was
to take it into a laneway and smash it
to pieces. He explained modestly to those
who were patting his back and offering him
drinks that he had been a Boy Scout and
still liked doing one good deed a day.
“The falling-off in talkie attendances is causing
the industry concern.”
The wages of din is dearth.
“The Lang- blight is holding the whole of Aus-
tralia back.” — “Argus.”
That’s why they call N. S. Wales the
Mar State now.
* *
“Even the cleanest get carbuncles.” — Med. Journal.
So much for the old saying that a washed
neck never boils.
* * •
GLAD RAGS.
“The sartorial solecisms of riders in Rotten Row,
London’s great equestrian parade, are causing Sir
Walter Gilbey agony of soul. Thirty riders were
out on Sunday without hats. Other riders habitu-
ally wear stockings and pullovers of every variety
and color, and most unsuitable kit.”- — Cable.
“Hell!” cried Lady Ammonia Fortis
angrily puffing her Corona Blastiferous, “this
Gilbey bird is a bit over the dizzy odds,
what?” ,
“What’s biting you, sweetmeat?” hic-
cupped her boy friend Lord d’Eliverus, tak-
ing a deep swig of his rum-and-lierom
cocktail.
“Passing his blighted opinion as to what
we wear or leave off,” snapped her Ladyship.
“But let’s sound the Boot and Saddle. Eh,
what!”
“Quaite!” replied d’Eliverus, giving his
nose a final touch of powder before the
cheval glass, “I think this get-up ought to
tickle the old rooster!”
“You said it,” acquiesced Lady Ammonia.
Lord d’Eliverus sported an Air Force
tunic with purple epaulettes and an orange
sash. He wore also shorts, trench boots
and spurs, but no hat. A Non-Starter’s
(1914-18) Cross blazed from his chest, and
he carried a mauve parasol.
“I can’t see what the old gin-slinger’s
got to snort about,” said her Ladyship. “You
look the goods to me. How’m I?”
“Well,” said Lord d’Eliverus thoughtfully,
“you’ve plucked your eyebrows, and taken
off practically everything. else except your
pince-nez. I don’t see what more a gal
could do with the police regs. in their pre-
sent state.”
Already their mettlesome Clydesdales were
champing their diamond-studded bits at the
hall door. Lady Ammonia put her arched
foot on the epauletted shoulder of Lord
d’Eliverus and vaulted lightly into her Mexi-
can saddle. A step-ladder was brought for
Ills Lordship. And so the handsome young
couple galloped down Piccadilly in the direc-
tion of Hyde Park Corner to the accompani-
ment of hearty applause from an immense
crowd of sporting Britons.
“Lydy Godiva ’ad nothing on ’er!” re-
marked the driver of a Hammersmith ’bus.
“So Ai’ve heard!” said his young, lady
with a sniff.
* *
“A doctor declares that the belief that beer-
drinking in summer is cooling is an error.”
Still, it’s a popular error.
TOUCHING.
HUSBAND (with emotion ): “I wish you
wouldn’t s-sing that s-song about ‘Fall-
ing Dew’; it makes me—er — er—makes
me”
WIFE: “Yes, dear. Yes. Yes?”
HUSBAND: “It makes me think of the gas
account.”
“When my husband said that his red nose was due
to bad circulation, I did not believe him.”
—Melbourne wife.
But there was nothing the matter with his
advertising.
THE NEW PROFESSION.
It was a great idea to set up in busi-
ness as a prize-winner. Our Bellevue Hill
mansion was, of course, bought with
the first prize in the Seventh (and
Absolutely Last) Bridge Lottery, and the
second prize in the 11th Bridge Lottery got
the wife’s jewels. The Jigsaw Advertising
Competition run by Bevell and Knockup, the
furniture people (you pieced the fragments
of a torn document together), enabled me
to start as a racing-owner. It was an un-
expected success in a cross-word competition
that first set me on the road to wealth. We
leave that kind of thing to the kids, now.
The wife has just won £5O in the
“Buzzer’s” Fashion Competition. It’s easy
when you know how. You just mark out,
in order of badness, the fashions nobody
but a congenital idiot would choose and
shortly afterwards you collect. I’m going
down presently to pick up a motor-car
(first prize in the “Count-the-Number” Hos-
pitals Competition), and the wife is off to the
stores to win the “Daily Hysteria’s” prize
for the best bargain purchase of the week.
“Dear,” she said to me this morning, “the
grocer wants his bill paid. It’s a bit over-
due certainly—five months or so. Shall
we draw the money from the bank?”
“There’s no money in the bank,” I re-
minded her. “Put him off till I win the
No. 347 Block Slogan Competition.”
There’s no trouble about that, of course.
The £lOO for the Wontwashclothes “Find
the Faces” Competition will come along next
week. Meanwhile all I need is some ready
cash for the races. And I’ll get that
Blast it, woman, what did you wake me
for? The milkman wants his five and three-
pence? Tell him I'll pay next Saturday!
I wonder if I’ll be able to dream that dream
again to-night.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


r=
M
A
Q
a
. ■ fMNrt
;■ ' x wimt/iofi:
Id f'LCTi
a
V
|OU’VE said it yourself. What man
of the world hasn’t?
You’ve said it in heartfelt "asides”
. . . when understanding hostesses,
handing round their cocktails,
have said, "Of course, you men
will probably prefer whisky.”
You’ve murmured it, sotto voce . . . when, at
the wedding breakfast, your host motioned
you confidentially towards the whisky he had
thoughtfully provided.
You’ve whispered it to your neighbour . . .
when at an official luncheon table a discerning
waiter discreetly placed a whisky decanter at
your elbow.
You’ve said it time after time . . . after strenu-
ous days . . . when it has been good to just sit
and sip, slowly savouring the golden contents
of a glass of fine Scotch Whisky. . . .
For there is nothing like good Scotch. No other
country than Scotland has the sparkling High-
land water that a beneficent nature has provided
for the use of the Distillers of the world-
renowned Highland Malt Whiskies. No other
country has the same precious heritage of
centuries of distilling experience. And finally,
no other country has the store of almost price-
less old Highland Whiskies that are the basis of
the fine Scottish blends, and are the secret of
the mildly stimulating, wholly refreshing Scotch
Whisky we know to-day.
Bottled in bond, the five famous brands below
assure you whisky that is Scotch ... all Scotch
. . . and nothing but Scotch.
The Worlds Choice
BLACK & WHITE WHITE HORSE
KING GEORGE IV. JOHNNIE WALKER
DEWAR’S


m
Ls /-1
■ *Hdfi F r,nce I
- -ft. ■ ° a. c cQ- a
l
'.
WE \
CAN’
■
“Cyclone” Ring-
Lock Fence comes
to you in 5-chain
rolls. The heavy
wire uprights are
12 inches apart.
MATERIAL—
In actual material Cyclbne Ring-
lock Fencing costs no more than
the ordinary post-and-wire fence.
LABOUR—
On labour costs the saving is
approximately £8 per mile, for it
can be erected in a little more than
half the time.
Cyc
Cvcii
Lock
FENCE
These users prove it.
“The perfect stock-proof fence! More efficient than a post
and wire fence and cheaper to erect.”
—Richards & Abrahams, Narrandera, N.S.W.
“In cost and in ease of erection it has been very satisfactory.”
—Glenleigh Pty., Ltd., Moonee Ponds, W 4.
Cyclone is stock-proof; cannot sag, stretch or
rust. No maintenance! Write for comparison
of costs.
s
=<fi
<S)
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE C?P"L T ?
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free
and priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal
Ring-Lock Fences, and comparison of costs.
illustrated
Gates and
Name ..
Address
B. 16/3/’32.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
21st to 30th MARCH, 1932
Nine Days Seven Nights
AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER EXHIBITION
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
HORTICULTURE
MACHINERY, MOTOR-CARS, AND ALL
CLASSES OF MANUFACTURED GOODS.
HUNTING, TROTTING, STEER RIDING
AND WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS,
DAY AND NIGHT.
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 8 p.m., NAVAL & MILITARY TATTOO
ADMISSION —Outer Ghtes: Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Grandstands extra.
G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Backache
IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say: “Oh, this terrible backache!” Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a “creaky” door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, “tired-out,” “too-
old” feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE
OF YOUR PAIN.
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
They all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help—
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
AA A vUi 1 1111 1 h////////// ///.f, s s
DeWITTS
AND BLADDER
:
mm
END THAT AGONISING
PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellously short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache—there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered, severely from chronic
backache, and could yet no rest
at night. Otic day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills, so I
thought I would buy some. Two
bottles were all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief.”
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham Road, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says; “I cannot speak too highly
of De Witt’s Pills, as when I
started them for kidney trouble
I had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then I icas recom-
mended to give ‘De Witt’s' a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now in perfect
health.”


,V>
a
V
BRIDGE CELEBRATIONS,
EASTER SHOW AND RACES.
ENTERTAIN AT •• THE AUSTRALIA **
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ballroom Lounge—these have all been
entirely remodelled and redecorated in the modern manner. The whole forms a
glamorous and entrancing setting that is without an equal in
Australia. Here is comfort, luxury, prestige, a world-famous
cuisine, and all the resources of a great hotel at your command.
(And our clients benefit by our reduced costs in every
department.)
Any special requirement communicated to the Manager, 86441,
will receive immediate attention.
Some Suggestions:
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden 27-
Luncheon or Dinner in the Grillroom 4/.
Luncheon or Dinner in the Dining-room .' o/ m
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea and After-Theatre Suppers in the
Winter Garden, a la carte.
The : ;;f|
/Australia
Hotel
HI Fsydney
NEW
Room
Only
RATES u
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth.
Single Room . . . from 10/6
Double Room . . from 20/-
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
g
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE DRY SPELL.
“Sativa”: Anticipating a dry spell, my
method is to truck off all wethers and aged
ewes suitable for the butcher. The balance
and young dry sheep are put on to scrub
(white box) and the ewes to lamb on kur-
rajong, all being treated liberally with a salt
lick to aid digestion. Thus the sheep are
crowded together, allowing the best paddocks
to rest; with a light rainfall these will im-
prove and be in reserve for the breeding
ewes when they commence to drop lambs.
The bugbear of many graziers is how to
get rid of old eives. Fat, aged ewes are
selling comparatively well. I have recently
cashed gummy merino ewes at the Sydney
saleyards for over 9s. per head. Lucerne is
great stuff for these old ladies, and on most
holdings, hilly or undulating, there are small
areas watered by summer storm waters, run-
ning off higher ground as from a roof. These
patches are invaluable, if enclosed and sown
down with lucerne. It is natural irrigation
in a small way, and in the driest season
these areas under lucerne produce green
feed.
After a flush season followed by a pro-
longed dry spell, impaction' is to be expected.
Magnesium sulphate, bought in quantity, is
not expensive, and will correct the trouble
if given liberally in the lick. Sheep suffer-
ing from impaction may give off symptoms
which sometimes lead owners to suspect
diseases other than the true cause. Farmers
in Southern Riverina will remember the
year 1908. The winter and spring were
flush, with no rain till the following winter,
and sheep died in thousands from impaction,
amidst old grass feet high. Badly-bound
sheep require treating with magnesium sul-
phate 40z., hyposulphite of soda 1 dram, to
a pint of water. Dose 21oz. per sheep.
PROBABLE CAUSES 01’ WATER-ROT.
“Orel”: In discussing probable causes of
water-rot in w r ool, both' “Murrawong” and
“Mulgatown” have overlooked the open-
woolled sheep. I have noticed a few cases
at shearing-time, but the worst I have had
was last’ shearing. A mob of weaners, shorn
as lambs, were in good condition all the
autumn and the wool was fairly greasy,
although they were running on light-carrying
hilly country. During June and July there was
a lot of rain at short intervals, and the
sheep must have got wet again several times
Defore they were properly dry from the
previous shower —August, September and
October were dry month’s.
At shearing-time I noticed that most of
the sheep that were open in the wool were
stained, some very badly right down the ribs.
There was a short growth of clean wool
next to the skin. There were a few cases
among the grown sheep, but I noticed dense-
woolled ewes, not in lamb, though running
with, the lambing ewes, had got fat and
had very heavy-conditioned fleeces. These
sheep were quite free from water-rot. From
my experiences I suggest that airy sheep that
is open in the wool on the back and wither
will show signs of water rot if it is fairly
greasy in the , wool and there is a con-
siderable amount of rain over a short period.
“Murrawong” suggests warm weather after
the rain, but I doubt if that is necessary
for the development of the bacteria.
For prevention, the Department suggests
shearing sheep with water-rot after the others
and disinfecting combs and cutters. That
would bejof doubtful value unless the sheep
were isolated after shearing. Has any
reader noticed cases among weaners that
were not shorn as lambs and were not run
in a paddock with older sheep that might
infect them? If the bacteria remains on
the skin of the sheep regardless of the
amount of wool, I do not see how any pre-
caution is going to eliminate the trouble.
Personally, I think the most likely cure is
to breed dense-woolled sheep.
PRAISE FOR RED POLLS.
“Beefo”: Australian cattlemen are too
prone to rely cn Shorthorns and Herefords
and their crosses. Red Polls are compara-
tively neglected, yet they are good doers
and niature early, their weights compare
favorably with those of other breeds, and
absence of horns renders them less liable
to marking and bruising when yarded or
trucked. “Oh, but they can’t break down
tree fodder in drought-time,” I hear some-
one say. I have had years of experience
among hornless cattle, and have never seen
them suffer any more for want of tree food
in a dry period than horned breeds.
A test taken at Smithfield showed Red
Polls in the ascendant over other breeds.
A pen at a year and eight months old
dressed just on 1001 b. more than cattle
of any other breed exhibited, though these
were one to three months older. At no
Smithfield show since 1910 have Red Polls
been outweighed by any other breeds. They
are easy to work, they are good fossickers,
and the quality of their beef, especially when
young, is- finer than that of any other
breed. .
Cattle-breeders would be well advised to
institute at least a cross of the Red Poll
blood in their herds. Queensland coastal
areas are ideal for these cattle.
DIPPING.
“Dip”: I w'on’t open my mouth too wide,
as I do not know conditions in “Bev’s”
country (B. 3/2/’32), but ticks can be
cleaned up, or so reduced that their damage
is negligible, and that by dipping. Let
“Bov” run his fences, if he has any—Af he
hasn’t, he should get them —or at least start
on his bullock paddock. Get a clean muster
every time, and then dip every fortnight.
I prefer a jump-in dip, so that every part
of the beast goes under, and one 40ft. long,
so that the cattle get thoroughly wet. Also
make certain the dip is full strength every
time—2lb. arsenic and lib. caustic soda to
100 gallons.
Four or five dippings would give the ticks
a devil of a shock. After that he could
gradually lengthen periods, but never let the
cattle get very ticky, else all his good work
is undone. All this would cost a bit, but
£2OOO (estimated saving on 500 bullocks at
£4) is worth saving.
SMUT IN WHEAT.
“Free Gallipoli”: Frank Maddox (B.
10/2/’32) is correct in stating that seed
free from bunt-ball should be sown wher-
ever possible. This has always been
strongly advocated by the Vic. Department
of Agriculture, which states that if it is
impossible to discard such bunted seed, it
should be wet-pickled, for, although the
germination is reduced, greater immunity
will probably be secured than if dry-pickled.
The department’s recommendation is to sow
seed which is apparently tree, or only very
lightly smutted, and dry-dust it. The ger-
mination efficiency is increased, and if pro-
perly dusted immunity from smut is
obtained.
The weight of evidence that dry-pickling
does give immunity from smut is too great
to accept Frank Maddox’s statement to the
contrary. It has been demonstrated in
official smut-control tests where seed has
been deliberately infected at varying rates
by virile smut, the untreated control plots
in each case giving heavily-smutted yields.
MAIZE-GROWING METHODS.
“J.D.”: “Rooraby” (B. 3/2/’32) says
lie has worked scrub farms where all the
planting of maize was done by hand with
a hoe, and condemns growers for time spent
in hilling the rows. Those scrub farms
weren’t in my district —S. Burnett (Q.).
The hoe method of planting may answer
in S. Africa; here it is only done when the
dibber goes out of action.
In Queensland maize is not a profitable
crop grown on a small scale, and there is
not a fortune in it on 200-acre areas, with
an average yield of 30 bushels to the acre and
a price of 10s. per bag. “Booraby” would
not get half a bag to the acre if he followed
his method here of chipping the weeds once
between the rows. A 200-acre area can be
worked by two men with a tractor right up
to harvest; so there can be little time and
labor lost in filling the rows. Hilling is
really a result of the cultivating; the bury-
ing of the small weeds which appear almost
as soon as the corn shows through the
ground. Weather conditions play an im-
portant part in this direction; no matter
how anxious one may be to have his land
in good order for planting, unless satisfac-
tory rains have fallen earlier one is unable
to get a good kill of surface weeds. Conse-
quently when planting-time comes it is a
case of corn and weeds together, and then
it is • “go for your life” with weeds. If
further rain soon follows, union hours are
not studied.
In cleaning the crop we use a spring-
tooth cultivator, which strides each row;
one machine and two horses can do eight
or nine acres a day comfortably. During
this process care is taken to throw enough
soil to the centre (the row of corn) so as
to bury and kill all weeds. When the whole
paddock is done a second, frequently a
third, time hilling naturally takes place; but
we try as much as possible to avoid this, as
it makes next season’s, ploughing awkward
and uneven. Desuckering is not done here
to any extent.
THE WAX MOTH.
“Larrapjiita” ; Over most of the Common-
wealth this is probably the worst season bee-
keepers have experienced. The dearth of
honey and pollen has caused not only heavy
losses of colonies in apiaries, but has also
starved countless wild swarms. This has
caused the wax-moths to breed up and every
apiarist must keep on the lookout.
The moths enter hives or stacks of spare
combs, and lay in them. These hatch out a
maggot-like grub which will rapidly ruin
spare combs; if a colony is weak or the
bees in it are of the old black strain, they
soon let the grubs get the upper hand and
the colony dies out.
To keep, spare combs free from the pests
string on wire, spacing them two inches
apart, and hang up in a cool room or cellar
where there is plenty of light in the day-
time. Examine them once a week for signs
of grubs.
Unless it is very weak, the grubs can
never gain a footing in a colony which has
a strong strain of the Italian in the breed.
The Italian bee will not tolerate the grubs,
and soon clears them out. Go through all
your hives, therefore, and if you find any
combs infested with grubs, exchange them
for an equal number taken from a colony
which shows that it can keep the pests out
of its hive. When the exchange has been
made watch the entrance of the colony which
has been given the grub-infested combs; if
they are of the right breed, a bare minute
will elapse before bees come out dragging
the bodies of grubs which have been stung
to death. If they show this favorable point,
and are good lfoney-gatherers also, mark
them for rearing your next batch of queens.
The bee which suffers the presence of the
wax-moth grub has no place in modern bee-
keeping.
GRADING TOBACCO-LEAF.
The alteration of the tobacco duties gives
point to remarks made by Messrs. W. J. B.
McDonald and G. E. Coghlan in the seventh
of the articles on tobacco-growing they are
contributing to the Vic. “Journal of Agri-
culture.” “Tobacco,” the writers say, “is
a costly crop to produce, and as production
increases and competition becomes keener it
will be incumbent on the grower to reduce
costs per pound of production and obtain the
maximum value per pound for his product.”
They recommend greater attention to grading
—“this will be to most growers an imme-
diate step towards increasing net returns
from their crops. The inclusion of inferior
leaf in an otherwise good-quality bale dis-
proportionately lowers the price offered for
the whole of the bale.”
Growers should aim at producing the
light bright-colored leaf that fashion de-
mands. Grading practices are based on
color variation, and “the average grower
can profitably grade his tobacco according
to the following color scheme: Lemon, bright
mahogany, mahogany, dark mahogany and
dark, the lemon colored being the most
valuable.” Colors determined, grades can be
further divided according to size and shape,
texture, soundness and the proportion of
leaf web to veins and ribs. For the small
grower “a lot of 1001 b. is probably the
minimum size of a satisfactory top line.”
“Grading,” the departmental officers pro-
ceed, “is usually carried out in late autumn
and winter. Adequate lighting is essential.
A separate bench for each individual should
be so placed that it is lit by an overhead
light without the operator shadowing the face
of the leaf. Where a skylight is not avail-
able, the best working position is side on to
the source of light. It is not possible to
accurately determine color in direct sunlight
or in artificial light. The back of the
bench should be divided into a sufficient
number of compartments to carry the
requisite number of grades.”
Leaf removed from the bulk must, as a rule,
be rehung to bring it into a condition fit for
handling without breaking. “The length
of time in which it is left hanging will vary
with the weather conditions. If left, hang-
ing longer than necessary, or unduly ex-
posed to light, the leaf loses both sheen and
color. In some circumstances, leaf which
has been satisfactorily conditioned over-
night would, if left hanging during the day,
again dry out to a brittle state. This is
avoided by building a small bulk of the con-
ditioned leaf and covering with bags or hes-
sian. When hanging leaf, it is usual to
hang just sufficient overnight to cater for
the following day’s grading.
“When fit to handle, several sticks of
leaf are placed on the bench and the strings
are removed, leaving the leaves all lying in the
one direction. Each leaf is opened out and
the face of the leaf examined, graded accord-
ing to color and quality, and placed in the
corresponding compartment on the bench.
If doubtful as to the correct grade of a
leaf, it is better to be stringent rather than
lenient. This procedure is followed until
all leaves have been graded. Any grade
of which there is sufficient bulk is then
‘handed’ and forked over the stick, 16
hands usually being placed on each stick.
If baling is not being carried on at the
same time as grading, the sticks" of graded
leaf are rebuilt into a bulk.
“The commonest fault in handing, is that
of building too many leaves into each hand,
resulting in a very unsightly bundle. Accord-
ing to size, 15 to 20 leaves are quite suffi-
cient for a hand. Hands are made by taking
the necessary number of uniform leaves and
placing them with the butts all pointing in
tbe one direction. These are encircled with
thumb and forefinger and held together by
wrapping the butts with a smaller leaf of
similar grade. In wrapping, commence with
the tips of the leaf and finish with the butt,
which is held in position by tucking into the
now finished hand.
“A small proportion of green leaf invari-
ably comes out of the kiln. In grading, this
leaf should be segregated, tied in hands, and
bulked down. This class of leaf usually
improves in the bulk, and although it should
never be offered for sale while still green, it
may reach a saleable condition by holding
for 12 months. Attempts to dispose of this
leaf as wrapper leaf do not deceive the
buyer.”
These McDonald-Coghlan articles are ex-
cellent, and it is to be hoped that they will
be collected in a pamphlet and made avail-
able in that form to growers in all the
States.
STORING LEMONS.
“R. K. Deea”: The remarks of “W.O*”
(B. 10/2/’32) are of interest to lemon-
growers, more particularly those working
small groves. “W.O.’s” method of treating
the lemons from tree to market is that
usually followed in Victoria, and it has
already been the subject of a contribution
to the Land page (B. 4/11/’3l). However,
harvesting details mentioned by “W.0.”-
even after allowing for the fact that he is
growing lemons in another State—-do not
coincide with my experience in Victoria.
The correct time to harvest lemons is
when they are in the green-silver stage.
Generally speaking, there are two crops per
annum, the main crop setting in the spring,
the summer crop in the autumn. Now it
is bad policy to have pickers going over
your trees just as the lemons are setting,
because you are going to lose a goodly
portion of the setting fruit from the un-
avoidable actions of the picker, to say noth-
ing of his or her carelessness. The scheme
should be to have the crop garnered prior
to the spring and autumn flowering (Sep-
tember and February). At the present
moment I am harvesting a very good (and
profitable) summer crop in the green-silver
stage to avoid damaging the autumn setting.
With the necessary care and attention, the
lemons being picked now will keep in the shed
until the new season’s crop commences to
come in, and the loss from keeping will be
infinitesimal, because only sound fruit is
packed, the remainder being marketed at
once.
“W. 0.” is well aware that a lemon-tree
18ft. to 20ft. high, laden with lemons, pre-
sents a problem. External fruit, i.e., the
outside setting, particularly on the lower
branches, may be picked more or less readily
by using steps, but the harvesting of the
internal fruit, and the lemons on the highest
branches of mature trees, is another matter,
and cannot be solved by resorting to mathe-
matical formulae. Any careless manipula-
tion of the ladder or steps results in injury
to the active spurs, and if the flowers are
setting—as in the case of late picking—it may
result in the ultimate loss of a case of lemons
per tree. By affixing secateurs to two light
rods, the topmost and most inaccessible
lemons may be harvested; but, of course, this
fruit_ (bruised in the fall) is not packed,
but is sold to the retailer forthwith.
I’ve had a lot of theory but only two
years’ practice, and I find that, as in all
classes of farm production, theory leaves a
devil of a lot unsaid.
SUNSPOTS AND DROUGHTS.
In B. 17/2/’32 a correspondent asked a
question regarding the late Mr. Wragge and
the theory of sunspots and the weather.
Question and answer have prompted Mr.
Inigo Jones, Director of the Queensland
Bureau of Seasonal Forecasting, who was a
pupil of Mr. Wragge, to write as follows -
The theory of the connection between sunspots
and the weather, which was worked for a long time
on a single basis of effect, has long been abandoned;
but the theory of the connection on a more elaborate
basis has now received attention, on account of its
importance and probability, all through the scientific
world. In Australia the connection of severe droughts
and sunspot minima is beyond all question and may
be regarded as proven.
But the real question before us now is that of
secondary droughts, which appear to be a reflex
of the conditions in Antarctica. The work of
David and Mawson here, and many others, is directed
(Continued on page 26.)


I
K
Double soled with
toughest Australian
leather
An Abbey Boot made for heavy
wear yet extra smart in
appearance. It affords extra
comfort, too. The upper is
arched to lie easily over the
instep, so that there’s never any
tightness on the foot. Each
muscle is allowed free play.
This is the ideal boot for the
active man.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF .. 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 272
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
fo succeed .think of
f SCHUTE,
BELL 8t Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
'iS
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
akes your fancy, write to the Manager,
vho will quote you price for the original.
RED POLLS
FOR SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW.
A Good Opportunity for Dairymen and
Graziers.
C - BASSETT-SMITH, of the Temperley Red Poll
Stud, Kyabram, Victoria, will offer for sale at the
Show Grounds a few choice young Bulls and Heifers
bred on sound dual purpose lines.
Ileid under Official Government Test averaged
318.771 b. butter fat for 273 days, with no allow-
ances, to end of June, 1931.
Temperley Red Polls have been awarded prize?
at Melbourne Royal Show every year exhibited, last
year winning First and Second for Junior and Senior
Three-year-old type arid utility class, First for
mature cow type and utility class, and Second and
Third (to an imported cow) in class for cows in milk.
C. BASSETT-SMITH
Temperley Red Poll Stud,
BOX 11, KYABRAM, VIC.
CONSTIPATION
KILLS THE
JOYS OF LIFE
At the first sign of Constipation—
take FIGSEN. Figsen is as prompt
as it is gentle and natural. No
purging. No griping No
unpleasant after-effects. Figsen
acts gently on the intestinal
muscles and helps them to per-
form their natural functions. Fig-
sen is easy to take and will not
upset the most delicate stomach.
For yourself—for the kiddies—•
always keep a tin of Figsen handy.
mm.
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin PuiFfiinqs
<©>
252 GeorQe Street.
S V D N E. V
<3
See announcement page 13.
"DIAMOND
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS
7\(eu) esfyeiler"" ,^« a ' a,rs ‘
TP
P
n
Wht
NOT
avq nojj
IXJN
~vno
CPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings.
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE vi
N.Z.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
AND UNION LINES
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
to that end. The establishment of a permanent
station on Macquarie Island would also be- of
infinite service and is within possibility. Argentina
has done a great deal with the South Orkneys and
seeks a station further west, but so far without
success. The importance of the problem is beyond
question to our country.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Which is the best dairying district on
Sydney side of the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) . (2)
Where are the largest butter factories in
that area? (3) What is a fair price for
a property producing £5OO per annum? (4)
Are milking machines satisfactory? (5)
BesU makes? —8456.
(1) The rivers Bellinger, Nambucca,
Macleay, Hastings, Manning, Avon, Barring-
ton, Williams, Paterson and Hunter have
excellent alluvial soil, the Hunter, Manning
and the Macleay in largest quantities. On
the upper reaches and creeks of these rivers
there is a large quantity of good grazing
and cultivation land. (2) The largest butter
factories are: two on the Bellinger, three
on the Nambucca, two on the Macleay, two
on the Hastings, two on the Manning and
three situated some miles back from the
river, one at Gloucester, serving the Avon-
Barrington country, two at Dungog, serving
the Williams, and four on the Lower Hunter
River. (3) In the areas named, rich alluvial
river frontage country goes from £5O to
£lOO an acre. Other land is worth from
£lO to £2O an acre, improved. (4) Yes,
if well cared for and kept scrupulously
clean. (5) “L.R.G.,” “Simplex,” “Gane,”
“Ridd” and “Slade” are recognised good
makes.
(1) My young cow has a flabby or liquid
swelling inside the left hock. iter leg is
slightly stiff when she walks and she has to
hop when trotting. Previously she had
footrot in the right hind-foot. Have tried
bandaging but it was hard to keep on. What
is the proper treatment? (2) Proper treat-
ment for a coin with a swollen hind-foot
after footrot? The attack took place about
four weeks before, but the cow can scarcely
put her foot to the ground yet and her
Ithigh has broken, out slightly. —Bsl3.
(1) A dressing of tincture of iodine should
be applied every second day on three
occasions. After a lapse of a week, this
dressing can be again repeated on two or
three occasions. As the joint is
involved, drainage of the iesion cannot be
recommended. The cow should be given
complete rest. Complete recovery is doubtful.
(2) Examine the animal’s foot carefully,
particularly between the claws. All dead
tissue should be pared away and any
abscesses present opened up. The foot
should then be poulticed with linseed meal
or bran poultices. After poulticing the foot
for a few days, antiseptic treatment would
possibly be necessary. This is a case which
should receive veterinary attention if at
all possible.
I am bringing my hackney in to work again
after being turned out for a few months. He
is very highly strung and hard to dose.
What would be a good physic to give him?
—8630.
Feed on bran mashes for 24 hours and
then give as a drench one pint of raw
linseed oil.
(1) Can heaves in a horse be cured? (2)
Until a year ago my mare, so afflicted, was
in the high inland districts and is now
nearer the coast. Would the change of
climate cause the complaint to become more
pronounced? (3) Could the mare be treated
and rested and worked periodically? —Bs99.
(1) No. (2) A broken-winded mare will
generally show more acute symptoms in a
humid climate than in a dry one. (3) A
horse that is broken-winded should be worked
slowly and not given a bulky ration. If
worked only moderately it is quite possible
that she may remain useful for a consider-
able time.
(1) Recipe for an ointment for sore
shoulders on horses? (2) How to harden
horses' shoulders so that they won't get
sore ? —8445.
(11 Use a zinc-oxide ointment. If the
horse’s shoulders are badly chafed, lie should
be given a rest so as to allow the injuries to
heal. (2) Young newly-broken horses
should have their shoulders bathed night
and morning with a cold solution of common
salt and water (a teacupful of salt to a
quart of water). In breaking in your
horses pull them up frequently and massage
their shoulders. In massaging, the shoulders
should be rubbed down, that is, with the
hair.
(1) Why does poultry-farming pay better
in N.S.W. than, in Vic.? (2) Names of
districts suitable, but near enough to Sydney
W) avoid having the eggs classed as “country
rggs"? (3) Approximate price per acre
of suitable land?- —8374.
(1) Because the average price of eggs is
higher, whereas feed costs are about the
same. (2) Suitable land is obtainable in
almost any district within 50 miles of Syd-
ney. Likely districts are Parramatta to
Penrith, Eastwood to Berowra, Parramatta
to Castle Hill and Carlingford, Merrylands
to Cainpbelltown or Camden. Kogarah to
Sutherland and Cronulla. (3) £3O to £lOO
per acre (according to locality) where city
water is available, or £lO to £3O without
city water.
/ have a fowl which stands about all day
with its head in the air and its beak open,
and seems to be gasping for breath all the
time. It eats hardly anything. Is there
any cure? —Sss4.
The windpipe may be obstructed with
canker, in which case the cheesy matter
should be removed with a bent piece of wire,
and the part should be painted daily with
a saturated solution of permanganate of
potash.
How is wheat digested in a fowl’s stomach,
and why is it good for them? —8485.
It is digested by the action of the gastric
juices aided by the grinding process of grit
in the gizzard of the fowl. It is good for
birds because it supplies much of their
nutritive requirements.
(1) Annual amount of tea imported into
Australia and approximate duty per pound?
(2) Is- there anything in the atmospheric
conditions of most parts of Queensland to
prevent the plants from growing as well as
they do in Ceylon, India and China? (3)
What is the average rainfall in tea-growing
countries? (4) Is it possible to obtain any
plants or seed in this country, also the ser-
vices of men who know the blending part of
the business thoroughly? —B3B3.
(1) Tea imported in packages not exceed-
ing 201 b., 331,9151 b. In bulk, 50.458,4871 b.
A total of 50,790,4021 b. The duty on pack
ages not exceeding 201 b. in weight is 6d. per
pound; exceeding 201 b., 4d. per pound. (21
The crop can be grown in Queensland in
districts adjacent to the coast, yield and
aroma being influenced to a large extent by
conditions of soil and altitude. (3) 60in.
to over lOOin. per annum. (4) We ai-e not
aware of any source from which seeds or
plants are procurable. Importing firms in-
variably do their own blending.
Is the sulphuric-acid method of destroying
stumps successful with Australian hard-
woods?—B4l7.
Of no value for any sort of stump. The
best method is to make a fire of logs and
brush around the stump, and cover the burn-
ing material, when well alight, with clay.
Such a fire will smoulder for several weeks
and eventually destroy the stump.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Gumblegubbin”: Don’t burn out stumps
on or near ground where wheat is to be
grown the same season. No one can tell
how long or how far dry roots will burn
underground. More than one disastrous
blaze in a wheatfield has been traced to a
root that has carried the fire to the surface
many yards from the stump long after the
fire was supposed to have burnt out. The
safest time to burn stumps is before fal-
lowing.
“Karaway”: Where there is a tall stump
about the grazing paddocks, instead of de-
stroying it drop a kurrajong seed in the
hollow. The plant grows readily in the fer-
tile matter generally found in such cavities,
and eventually bursts the stump. The
natural guard protects it from stock, which
otherwise would eat it down before it could
grow beyond a small shrub. Stakes and
wire-netting suffice in some open places, but
are not proof against hungry cattle.
“Beefo”: If bullocks have to be yarded
at night prior to going on the road, see
that it is done before sundown. They can
then have a good look round and they
become used to their surroundings. Yard
them in the dark, and they are liable to be
restless all night, and if inclined that way,
may break out.
“F 34” : If “Booraby” (B. 17/2/’32) tried
a skin seat for milking stools he would
shudder at the thought of going back to a
wooden one. Nail together two ends of a
kerosene-case, using 4in. x lin. battens lOin.
long. Have the top ones flush with the
top edge of the case ends and the other two
towards the bottom for stays. This gives an
open framework without top or bottom. Next
take a large wallaby- or calf-skin that has
been treated with arsenic to stop weevils,
trim one edge and tack it securely to one
side of framework about two inches from
the top. Draw skin tightly over top and
tack on opposite side. Trim off any sur-
plus and then tack other two sides, keeping
the skin tight.
“Karaway” : A small seed or a bit of grit
occasionally gets into Dobbin’s eye. To re-
move it, take hold of the top eyelash, draw
the lid over the botton ‘laslx and release it.
Anything that gets into the eye mostly finds
lodgment under the top lid.
“Pine Scrub” : A bandy gadget where rails
are used in yards or horse-stalls is an oblong
piece of inch hardwood, swinging freely on
a nail in the post so that the lower edge
will just clear the rail. It has only to be
moved aside to allow the rail to be lifted
from the mortise, but it is a safeguard against
the greatest rogue.
“J.W.W.” : Vic. growers have lost tons of
tomatoes through sunburn This can be
avoided by planting among the tomatoes a
thin crop of 90-day maize. Sow in rows
11ft. or 12ft. apart and 6ft. in the rows.
By tlie time the tomatoes are ripening this
friendly companion crop will be high enough
to provide effective shade, and the cobs come
in handy afterwards, for pigs or poultry.
“Gardener”: Crops that will not pay to
harvest often yield good seed, and clean
parcels will always sell to the trade. Save
your own for three years, then introduce
fresh strains.
“Pine Scrub”: It’s a job to keep mutton
in the hot weather, especially on small
properties; but it can be done. Yard early
and let the animal cool off; the better the
carcase “sets” first night the better the
meat will be and the longer it will keep.
If you use a brine cask, boil the brine every
couple of days and renew weekly. I save
labor and get results by dry-salting—mixing
a dessertspoonful of saltpetre with 31b. of
salt. Any cut may be corned, but it is
wise if salting joints to run the knife
round the bone and ram the salt into the
centre of the flesh, as putrefaction first
sets in near the bones. Rub well in, repeat-
ing in two days. Place the lot in a handy
vessel and cover with salt. Drain the fluid
off regularly.
“Cockyson”; When your hens are not
laying as they should, try a little milk—
skimmed milk will do, and it needn’t be
fresh. They will usually respond to a drop
of milk added to the ration, and can be
induced to lay early in the winter. Care,
however, must be taken not to overdo the
milk, as it is apt to cause scours; two
quarts to every 30 fowls is plenty*
“Mulyan”: When a horseshoe pad is re-
quired to hold the dressings of an injured
hoof, use a bit of an old motor tyre. Cut
to the shape of the hoof, and pared down
to the fabric all round where it goes under
the shoe, it makes a springy protector that
enables a horse to walk comfortably on a
tender or injured frog.
“Double-one”: Apropos of wheat without
manure (B. 2/3/’3>2). This season, in a
crop competirjon in the Nathalla (Vic.)
district, the field that gained the prize and
an exhibit that tied for second place were
both sown without manure. And a manure
firm gave the prize!


Our Service Department
This page is set, apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell" or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentlewoman, Vic., over 50, small income, will
give morning services for comfortable home. —8581.
Single man (32), N.S.W., wants work, used to all
kinds of farm machinery, . tractors, trucks and cars,
can milk, kill and has exp. stock, able manage
team. Served in navy during war. Will tackle
domestic work. —8642.
Man, Sydney, long commercial and sales exp.,
wants position of trust, home or abroad. —8689.
To buy “Practical Chemistry,” by Black and
Conant.—B629.
To buy “Psychology,” by R. S. Woodworth (1929
edition). —8588.
To buy “Shall Trelawney Die?” by Joseph Hock-
ing.—B6l3.
To buy “Illustrated London News,” Christmas No.,
1931. 8610.
To buy “With Bat and Ball,” by George Giffen.
—8655.
To exchange Tangier pea seed for Greenfeast pea
seed. —8684.
Whereabouts of Mrs. H. Bushell (Hilda Weeks),
one time residing Paddington, Sydney. Father
inquiring.—8628.
To hear from relations of the late James Henry
Vial Edwards, who died in South Africa, Jan. 19,
1932, age 55, one time resident Orange (N.S.W.),
served in South African War. —8637.
To get in touch with agents for Varne drag-
saws.—B672.
Information Sought.
How can the blue finish of steel, as in the
case of rifles, be obtained? —Bo44.
In 4 to 5 parts water, dissolve 2 parts
crystallised chloride of iron and 2 parts solid
chloride of antimony: add 1 part gallic acid,
and when solution is complete apply on a
brightly polished steel surface with a small
sponge on a stick. Let it dry, and repeat
two or three times, then wash in clean cool
water and dry. Finally rub with boiled
linseed oil.
(1) During the war did France charge
for use of the trenches, or for land used
for hospitals? Did it charge fares for
German prisoners travelling on the railways
who had been captured by the British? (2)
Will Great Britain be compelled to pay
TJ.S.A. in gold in New York jor war debts?
—8659.
(1) It did not charge Australia. Noth-
ing of an official nature is known as to the
financial arrangements (if any) between the
Imperial and French' Governments. (2)
The arrangements for the funding of the
British debts to the U.S.A., made in 1923,
provide that the bonds shall be payable as
to both principal and interest in U.S. gold
coin or its equivalent in gold bullion, or, at
the option of Britain, upon not less than
30 days’ advance notice, in any bonds of the
United States issued after April 6, 1917, to
be taken at par and accrued interest to date
of payment.
(1) Could a couple go to a. registry
office in N.B.W. and be married without
having previously arranged with the Regis-
trar? (2) Would members of the registry
office staff be sufficient as witnesses? (3)
Is there anything to prevent new arrivals
from overseas marrying at the registry
office on the day of arrival in any State in
Australia? (4) Must birth certificates be
produced by both parties? —SsoB.
(1) Arrangements should be made pre-
viously by either party. (2) The parties
must provide two competent witnesses. (3)
Marriage by a Registrar may only be per-
formed by the Registrar of the district
within which the intended bride ordinarily
resides. (4) A Registrar or celebrant would
require to be satisfied that the parties were
over twenty-one.
What does N. 8. Wales do for aborigines?
—8049. *
There is an Aborigines Protection Board
consisting of the Inspector-General of Police
and 10 other members. On a number of
reserves set apart for aboriginals in various
localities, dwellings have been erected, and
assistance in the form of Mod and clothing
is supplied when necessary. Aboriginal
children are required to attend school until
the age of 14 years, and schools have been
established for their exclusive use. The
board may assume control of the children and
apprentice them or place them in a training
home. There is a training home for girls at
Cootamundra, and a home for boys at Ivin-
chela, on the Macleay River.
(1) How often is the jury list compiled in
Sydney? (2) How many jurymen are sum-
moned to a case? (3) How many can be
rejected by the Crown and by the accused?
(4) Within what time must the jury arrive
at a decision? —B6so.
(1) Annually, in October. (2) Twice the
number required to make a panel. t 3)
Twenty in cases involving capital charges;
eight in other criminal cases. (4) In
criminal cases the verdict of the jury must
be unanimous, and if an agreement is not
reached within 12 hours the jury may be
discharged. In civil cases a three-fourths
majority verdict may be accepted after six
hours. Failing agreement within 12 hours
the jury is discharged and a new trial held.
(1) Qualifications of an officer in a muni-
cipal health department in W.A.? (2)
Salary? (3) Any schools which give a com-
plete training? (4) Books suitable for home
study?— 8142.
(1) Health inspector's certificate. (2)
£3l2'to £4OB p.a.: maximum salary £630 as
chief inspector. (3) Not that we are aware
of, but authorised and qualified inspectors
coach by correspondence. (3) Reids ‘Prac-
tical Sanitation,” and W.A. Health Act with
regulations and by-laws.
What is the cause of “rope" in bread,
and how can it he avoided? —8269.
Caused by bacteria which take possession
of uncleanly spots and spread throughout
the bakehouse and utensils. The whole
place and everything in it must be
thoroughly sterilised with boiling water or
by heating in the oven, and all wooden
gear which can possibly be replaced with
new articles should be burnt. Scour all
mixers, etc., with boiling water containing a
cup of vinegar to every two gallons, and
bake all tins and metal articles. Let in
light, air and sunshine, and give all gear
a sunbaking once a week.
What, are the distinguishing features of
the following groups of tapestry: (1)
Gothic, (2) Jieriaissance, (3) Baroque, and
(4) Rococo?- 8493.
(1) Gothic was woven before the sixteenth
century, has much gold thread, narrow
borders or none at all. rich reds which have
faded to a brownish shade, and design which
is almost purely linear, especially the ver-
tical motive, which is the dominant feature
of all Gothic art. (2) The best Renais-
sance dates from early in the sixteenth cen-
tury, has a predominant color scheme of
whites and golden yellows, wide borders,
horizontal effects and generally the quality
of a painting. (3) Baroque is half
a century later than Renaissance. It has
wide light and shade borders. The design
is exaggeratedly sculptural and rather ugly
in its striving for variety and emphasis. (4)
Rococo is distinguished for its rose shades
and the marked influence of Chinese paint-
ings and embroidery on the designs of the
weavers.
(1) What is the public debt, per head in
Australia (Commonwealth and State), in
N.Z. and in Fiji? (2) State of the curren-
cies in these countries? —8285.
(1) Public debt per head: —Australia
(30/6/’31): Commonwealth, £59 15s. lid.;
States, £llB ss. 9d.; total, £177 16s. 9d.
New Zealand (31/3/’3l) : £382 13s. lOd.;
Fiji (33 /32/’29) : On European population,
£179 2s. ; on total population, £4 345. (2) Aus-
tralia (30/6/’3l) : Note issue, £50,653,000;
reserves, coin and bullion, £15,227;
investments, £35,300,000; other assets,
£179,000; total reserves, £50,706,000. New
Zealand : The notes of all six banks trading in
New Zealand have been declared legal tender
to January 10, 1935, subject to earlier ter-
mination in the event of a Central Reserve
Bank being established. The average legal
tender notes in circulation for the month of
September, 1931, were; Gross circulation.
£5,614,511; net circulation, £5,570,180. The
above are the banks’ liabilities only and
exclude notes held by the issuing banks. The
average metal reserves of the trading banks
for the same period were: Coin, £6.927,393;
bullion, £11,"471; total, £6,938,864. Fiji:
Currency notes in circulation (31/12/’3l).
£441,583. Reserves; Gold reserve in Note
Guarantee Fund, £88,481; securities form-
ing investment portion of fund. £390.613;
total, £479,094.
Would a married man and wife with four
adult children, all unemployed, be entitled
to food relief in N.S.W.? What is the posi-
tion of an unemployed single man as regards
food relief?■ —8492.
Food relief is granted to unemployed resi-
dents of N, S. Wales registered for employ-
ment. A married man with wife and four
children, all unemployed and residing
together, would be entitled to food relief if
the family income from any source does not
exceed £3 per fortnight. A single man,
unemployed, would be entitled to relief if
his income from any source does not exceed
£1 per fortnight. The value of the food
relief issued varies according to fluctuations
in the price of goods in the district in which
relief is issued.
Ho w to remove marks caused by laying
hot utensils on a wax-polished cedar liable?
—B5lB.
Fold a sheet of blotting-paper into four
thicknesses, lay it over the stains, and hold
a warm iron firmly on top for a few seconds.
As soon as the iron has made the wood
quite warm, remove the blotting-paper and
rub the stain with a lump of paraffin wax,
rubbing liard enough to leave a coating;
beeswax would probably do as well. Take
several pieces of flannel, make them very
hot in an oven, and rub the waxed place
with them, discarding each piece as soon
as the warmth goes from it. This should
remove the marks. Finally, rub with furni-
ture polish or beeswax dissolved in turpen-
tine to a thick paste; polish with a silk
duster.
How to make a material for the purpose
of modelling flowers and other designs on
various articles? —Bl67.
Boil together 1 part powdered resin. 4 parts
raw linseed oil and 6 parts melted glue.
Mix thoroughly by stirring. Soak some pow-
dered whiting in enough water to moisten
it, and add enough to the resin mixture to
make a creamy liquid, but thin enough to
flow freely from a brush. Use this for
forming flowers, etc. When high relief is
required,, the mixture may be thickened by
adding more whiting. Cotton-wool teased
into small pieces may be used to give body
to large pieces of work, which can he
formed by brush and modelling tools after
the wool lias been put into the paste. The
addition of a little yellow ochle gives a
fine ivory color. A little glycerine added to
the mixture will keep it fluid.
Does the national income of Australia
comprise income derived by the sale of goods
overseas, or the value of goods uscd for
home consumption plus exports f—S4()_.
Sir Josiah Stamp, in “Wealth and taxable
Capacity,” says: “The sum total of wages,
salaries, profits and interest presents a fairly
comprehensive idea, free from important
ambiguities, for ordinary comparative pur-
poses.” It is in this sense that the teim
“national income” is used in Australia and
elsewhere. See J. T. Sutcliffe’s “National
Dividend.”
Is there a simple and reliable arithmetical
method of computing the radio of the cir-
cumference of a circle to its diameter
8700.
Take the square root of 3 to as many
decimals as you require in the final compu-
tation. Divide it by 3. Call the result a.
Divide a by 9 and subtract the product from
a, producing b. Divide a by 9 and then by
5 and add the product to b, producing c.
Divide a by 27 and then by 7 and subtract
the result from c, producing d. Divide a
by 81 and then by 9 and add the result to
'd, producing e. Continue thus as far as
required, each time multiplying the first divi-
sor of a by 3 and adding 2 to. the second
divisor, and alternately subtracting from or
adding the result to the previous one. Mul-
tiply the final product by 6. The processes
of extracting the square root of 3 and those
subsequently outlined can. of course, be
continued infinitely, the one being a surd
and the other the expansion of an infinite
series.
What is the position regarding commercial
motor vehicles, operating between the Federal
Capital Territory and A. S. Wales, under
the State Transport ( Co-ordination) Act
1931?—8058.
They have to be licensed, irrespective
of whether passengers or goods are picked
up or set down in N. S. Wales or in the F. C.
Territory.
(1) What salary would a girl, aged 17,
receive as an office assistant in the N.B.W.
public service? (2) Commencing salary for
shorthand-writers and typists who have
passed entrance examination? (3) Salary of
a girl casually employed as a shorthand-
writer ?— 8558.
(1) When first employed, 245. lid. per
week, net. (2) 30s. lid. per week, net.. (3)
If not qualified at the entrance examination,
but required to perform a definite amount of
shorthand work, 265. 7d. per week, net. In
each case there are deductions ranging from
2s. 3d. to 2s. lOd. per week from the gross
salary.
(1) Does the smoking of cigarettes affect
the heart? (2) Is there such a thing as
a, “murmur ” of the heart? If so, what is it.
and, how can it be cured? —8609.
(1) Smoking can, but does not neces-
sarily, interfere with the heart’s action; (2)
A murmur is a sign of some irregularity in
the heart. It may be due to any one of a
variety of causes, each involving different
treatment. Personal diagnosis is essential
before a remedy can be prescribed.
(1) What amounts of butryric and lactic
acids are used in Australia per annum? (2)
Amounts manufactured in Australia? (3)
Respective prices of these acids, and (4)
crude sulphur in Australia? (5) What duty
does imported sulphur pay, and is there any
reduction in duty on sulphur from M.L. or
Papua ? —8633.
(1) Practically no butryric acid is sold
in Australia. Lactic acid imports amount
to something under lOOOcwt. p.a. (2)
Neither acid is manufactured in Australia.
(3) Pure lactic acid, about 3s. per pound,
com!., about lOd. pound. (4) About £lO per
ton, crude, if free from arsenic. (5) Duty
free from all parts of the world.
(1) Where can my son most advanta-
geously study to become a veterinary sur-
geon, Sydney Uni. or Hawkesbury College?
(2) Prospects of private or Itovernment em-
ployment when qualified? (3) Approximate
cost of courses? —Bs44.
(1) Sydney Uni. confers the degree of
B.V.Sc. Hawkesbury grants diplomas in
agriculture and dairy science, but not in
veterinary science. Students holding the
Hawkesbury College diploma are admitted
to the veterinary‘school, Sydney, as matri-
culated students. (2) A young graduate
should specialise and aim at securing a re-
search position. (3) Fees at Sydney Uni.
arc £2B 10s. per year. Four years complete
the course if the professional examination
is passed each year.
What wages should a youth of 19, check-
ing clerk in a Sydney advertising agency,
receive ? —8507.
Under the Clerks’ (Metropolitan) Award
the rate for a male clerk of 19 who entered
business under 16 is £2 Bs. per week. Where
he enters a business without previous ex-
perience, older than 16, the rates vary. Get
a copy of the award and variation No. 1365
from the Government Printer, Sydney, Bd.,
plus postage.
We have two goldfish which will not cat
meat. We are told their correct diet is fish-
bread. How is this made?— B4B6.
The fish bread used for feeding goldfish
is made only in Japan from rice. It is by
no means the best food. Mosquito larvae,
chopped-up earth worms, dog biscuit finely
ground, or even the dry crumbs of ordinary
bread are suitable.
(1) Particulars of the metal barium? (2)
Has it commercial value? (3) Is it common ?
—8597.
(1) It is an element of the calcium family
discovered in 1774 by Scheele, a white soft
metal found widely distributed in small quan-
tities in feldspars and micas and in deposits
of sulphates and carbonates. (2) Barium
salts are used in pyrotechnics, and the per-
oxide is made for the preparation of hydrogen
peroxide; the sulphate is employed in white
paints and for the manufacture of lithopone.
The carbonate is used as a reagent in rat
poison, and the carbide, decomposed by water,
yields acetylene. (3) It does not occur at
all in nature in a pure state, its chief natural
compounds being barium sulphate or heavy
spar, and barium carbonate or witherite. the
former being a very common mineral in lead,
silver and cobalt veins.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word “Wilga”?—
8668.
Brief Answers.
L.D.D.: Chances are small. Get in touch
with Island traders. .. .G. 0.: “The Melanesians,” by
R. H. Cod ring! on (28s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson,
....Z.A.: The market is already overcrowded with
books on the subject. .. .P.J.C.: (1) “Foreseen evils
come to nothing.” (2) “Who shall separate?”
E.A.H.: (1) If the poet had anyone in mind he has
never revealed who the person was. (2) Will read
it and express an opinion later... .11. T.: Write
Printing Industry Employees’ Union of Australia,
Trades Hall, Goulburn-street, Sydney... .P.K.: Write
Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne R.G.F.: (1) “Writing for the Screen,”
by Arrar Jackson, and “Hqw t to Write a Film Story,”
by Gertrude M. Allen. (2) and (3) Write Efftee
Film Production C’o., His Majesty’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne C.F.: Books on the subject can be obtained
from any leading bookseller. .. .C.K.: The rent on
June, 1930, 325. Od. p.w., is thcj one from which
the deduction should be made. .. .F.H.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Labor and Industry, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. .. .G.E.C.. The wife* being the owner
of the land, the building placed on it becomes her
property. The husband has no claim to it....W.M.:
Kavanagh and English, Lacey-street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, from whom they are obtainable wholesale
only. If required for private use, they can be
obtained from any hardware store. We have never
heard of the “Ideal” brand A.McI.: The loss
through evaporation in any circumstances must be
less than the loss through evaporation plus absorption.
. ...D.R.G. : Use clear varnish, a 4oz. tin will do,
in which has been melted a piece of beeswax about
the size of a walnut. The varnish can be heated
by standing in a basin of hot water. .. .A.F.H.: If,
as beneficiaries, the trustees received any money
out of the estate for their own personal use, it
became part of their income and was taxable as such.
The fact that this year the estate shows a loss means
that the income of the beneficiaries is so much the
less, and they will be taxed accordingly. Cannot see
any item under which a claim such as you refer
to could be made, but you might test it by a letter
to the Taxation Department... .M R.: May be due
to the ducklings going to camp in a wet condition.
Very little can be done to cure ailments of young
ducks E.H.M.: The N.S.W. “Ejectments Post-
ponement Act 1931” provides that “no person shall,
except under an order of a competent Court, take
possession of any dwelling-house without the consent,
expressed or implied, of the occupier.” If you
refuse to give up possession the landlord may apply
to the Court to eject you, and it may refuse to do
so if you can show that you are ir. impoverished
circumstances and unable to pay rent. If, however,
you cannot show this, you will have to leave. A
month’s notice on either side is the usual condition.
....A.A.: (1) The exhaust pipe is used for expelling
the smoke employed in sky-writing. (2) It is probably
a stannix chloride preparation, but the material used
is secret and is a proprietary product of the firm
that does the sky-writing D.M.C.: (1) Write
Lecturer-in-Charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street,
Waterloo, 'for printed directions. (2) “Poultry
Farming in N. S. Wales,” by James Iladlington
(4s. fid.), obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney.
. ...H.S.: (1) An amount should be named. (2)
You cannot cover an old debt, not in the nature of
an advance, by the word “advances”... .W.S.: The
Act does not compel you to pay less rent if you
think the existing rental is fair. . . .A.F.E.: You
should not have agreed to the substituted condition
which binds you hand and foot, but having done so
the best course would be to try to come to some
amicable settlement, or, failing that, consult a
solicitor as to obtaining relief through the Court of
Equity W.C.: Yes. The Matrimonial Causes
Act (N.S.W.) legislates for such a contingency pro-
vided that the person seeking the divorce has at
the time of the institution of the suit been domiciled
in that State for three years or upwards and has
not resorted to it for the purpose of instituting the
divorce. You would require to serve her with pro-
cess in U.S.A., involving considerable expense....
W.H.D.: Write F. T. Wimble and Co., 35 darence-
street, Sydney H.C.: Write Penfolds Winfes, Ltd.,
533 Lonsdale-street West, Melbourne... .H.E.F.: Get
in touch with Angus and Robertson’s or Dymock’s
second-hand department C.K.: Write J. Y.
Shannon, Rodney Downs, Ilfracombe (Q.) .. . . F.L.:
Remove the male bird to another cage... .5.M.8.:
Send a specimen and we will try to identify it.
Fading is due to keeping specimens in too strong a
light. .. .P.S.: N.S.W. Railway Department declines
to furnish the information. . . .H.F.: (I) The Interest
Reduction Act commenced on October 1, 1931. (2)
It applies only in respect of an obligation to pay
interest created before the commencement of the
Act. Where mortgage interest is cut under the
Moratorium Act, reduction under the Interest Reduc-
tion Act is made from the amount which would have
been payable if the moratorium had not been enacted,
and where the reduction under it exceeds the reduction
under the Interest Reduction Act that Act does not
apply while the moratorium operates... .G.F.: The It)
largest ports in the world are London, Liverpool,
New York, Singapore, Hamburg, Buenos Ayres, Rio
de Janeiro, Shanghai, Glasgow and Sydney... .W.P.:
See Secretary, Federated Clerks’ Union, Room 59,
State Shopping Block, Market-street, Sydney....
P.J.C.: (1) An executor must answer for his acts
to the beneficiaries in the estate. (2) You could
apply to the Court in England to compel the executor
to furnish an account, at this distance a costly
procedure. (3) Get a solicitor to write to the
executor calling for an account... .A. 11.: (1) Call on
Supt., Mails Office, G.P.0., Melbourne, who will
supply application form. (2) Yes. (3) No. (4)
Yes, but registration must be affected after publi-
cation of first issue. (5) Four ounces for penny....
E.M.8.: There is no Crown land which may be pur-
chased unconditionally, but particulars of a number
of blocks in the Windsor and Gosford land districts
which are becoming available shortly for selection
under the Special Area (Conditional Purchase) and
Homestead Farm tenures, also application forms, are
obtainable from Lands Dept., Sydney... .J.L.R.:
Can’t furnish information regarding sweeps conducted
outside N. S. Wales E.R.H.: (1) August 15, 1931,
at Melb. Palace. (2) Sa-rah-wa. The last syllable
is short. .. .J.W.: Ask Angus and Robertson....
E.O’N.: The mere fact of a piece being Wedgwood
does not make it valuable. Can’t advise without
seeing the piece. .. .C.D.A.: “Hollywood Spectator,”
6362 Hollywood Boulevarde, Los Angeles (monthly),
two dollars fifty cents p.a J.C.: Write Hon.
Secretary, Avicultural Section, Royal Zoolugical
Society of N.S.W., Box 2399 MM, G.PJL, Sydney
J.S.: The naval method of making smoke screens
is a service secret. See reply to A.A G.H.:
Write Patents Office, Brisbane... .S.R.: A pamphlet
on the subject is available from the Secretary,
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne (Vic.) ... .G.M.C.:
Write Aust. Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, for pamphlets 9, 10 and 11....D.5. :
Wungilwungil means an expert tree-climber;
Gurrawillie, boomerang fight; and Belleningah,
river crayfish... .A.S.H.: Expert workers use stains
in preference to oil paint, as it is almost impossible
to prevent the latter from cracking on a flexible
surface. Thin the paint with tapestry oil or poppy
oil, and dab it well into the suede, with a stiff
brush,.. .E.J.M.: Can’t advise without knowing
exactly the class of work you are performing....
(Many others mailed.)


Blue north
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : In 1876 “Handsome Jack ’’
Fordyce, leaving his extravagant and
discontented ivifc, Euphemia, sails
from Fremantle for the Blue North
in search of pearls and freedom. Get-
ting divers, including Nguri, from the
Gascoyne River tribe, he reaches
Cossack. In greeting little Sophie,
forced by tyrannical Ma Gannet to
herd goats, Ford gee raises his hat; she
is captivated. ,That night in Mark's
pub a fight is averted between For-
dyce and Captain Baia Budson, a
brutal pearler who can get divers only
by force. Baia is 'very possessive in
dealing with Bella, the handsome bar-
maid; she is infatuated with Fordyce.
They spend the night together. Meet-
ing again before he sails he is casual,
but she restrains her passion only
because Budson is present'. Sophie,
declaring Fordyce is the most wonder-
ful man in the world, tells Bella of an
innocent visit with him to the Sprite.
Bella, jealous, vows that if Fordyce
will not have her he will not find an
innocent Sophie waiting when he
returns. Anchoring in Beagle Bay,
Fordyce’s divers make a good begin-
ning; but of the catch one shell only
contains a pearl. He is fishing a bank
when Budson arrives. Fordyce sees
Hudson kill a female diver; but is told
by Captain Mac Koo to forget it. For-
dyce sails for the Lacepedes. Roberts ,
an audacious Yankee, takes possession
of the islands. Fordyce takes Mr.
Geddes, a guano merchant, to the
mainland to see the Government Resi-
dent at Roebourne. At Bella’s in-
sidious suggestion, Ma sells Sophie
*o Baia. Fordyce learns that no one
in Cossack has seen the child since.
CHAPTER XIII ( Continued.)
MARK greeted the pair of them with
the greatest geniality. “And what
brings you in again, Mr. Fordyce?
Pearls, I hope. And how is the guano, Mr.
Geddes?”
Geddes snorted, and fierily poured forth
the tale of the Yankee rooster and his
presumption in attempting to annex good
British possessions for America. Two or
three men in the room crowded round.
Here was a story full of meat! Before
horses arrived to carry the two men into
Roebourne quite a crowd had gathered out-
side the low verandah of the pub. Patriot-
ism ran high; a cheer sent them on their
way.
Bella ran out to see the fun and discover
what was afoot, but amidst the general
excitement she found no opportunity of a
word with John Fordyce. He answered her
greeting readily enough; but how different
his casual words from the response she had
imagined! For days she had invented pic-
tures of his return —herself by good fortune
alone in the bar; his entrance; his eager
greeting and yet more eager assurances
that he had thought only of Bella whilst
he was outside, that he had come in only
to see her! And now this!
John returned from the inland settlement
two days later, and, riding beside a trium-
phant Geddes, he pondered anew the prob-
lem of the child Sophie. Surely something
could be done? A disinclination to become
embroiled in further legal proceedings—if,
indeed, such were possible—alone silenced
his tongue in front of the Government Resi-
dent. John Fordyce loathed what he called
stirring up trouble. If he could right a
wrong himself, no personal effort or incon-
venience would hinder him, but public agi-
tation he shunned. He decided to seek out
Baia Budson and give the dirty hound
the thrashing he deserved. Strange that he
had not run across him anywhere—he would
ask at Cossack as soon as he got back.
In Mr. Geddes’s pocket reposed a war-
rant ; he had been sworn in as a special con-
stable, ordered by the Resident to return
to the islands and attach the piratical
vessels. “We can’t have the Yankees help-
ing themselves like, this! And the others
are nothing but freebooters. I’ll deal with
them! Fetch ’em all in, Mr. Geddes!” had
said the Resident.
All the way to Cossack, jogging along the
slippery ironstone track, across marshes
down to the mouth of the creek, with sweat
running from their horses’ flanks and a
swarm of flies riding upon their backs, Mr.
Geddes told John the many good reasons
why he should return with him and lend the
force of his presence to the arrests. John
listened absently; but when he heard
Geddes thanking him profusely, realised he
must have nodded acquiescence. He awak-
ened then, told the other man he would
take him back to the Lacepedes if he could
find no other ship, but that he had wasted
more than enough time already and must
be off to the northern grounds.
Bella stood behind the bar when the two
of them, red with dust, hot, parched by a
thirst burning throat and mouth to leather,
dropped from their saddles in front of the
pub and walked in. She greeted John
effusively, archness in the very poise of the
glasses she held. He cracked a joke with
her, some nonsense about her black eyes,
though the flash of them struck no answer-
ing spark. She refrained from any pointed
reference of their last meeting; her vanity
demanded that he first publicly acknow-
ledge his admiration. Plenty of time —
cheated of the reunion she had dreamed of,
the young woman visioned a triumph in a
crowded bar at night.
“Where’s Baia Budson?” demanded John
suddenly.
Bella flushed. Her heart beat quickly—
perhaps, after all, it was better now! She
leant towards him across the bar.
“Inland, Johnnie,” she smiled. “He’s gone
to the station and won’t be back for a day
or two. Are you glad?”
“No. Damned annoyed!”
She straightened as if he had struck her.
Without another word he set down his glass
and. strode out.
He went straight to the pool at the end
of the promontory where he had bathed
after that first wild night in Cossack. He
stripped off his hot clothes and plunged
into a jade-green basin among the rocks,
where waves came splashing in from the
Indian Ocean. His hair crisp, his body
tingling, he sprawled on a tiny strip of
shingle, naked, his pipe in his mouth, his
eyes on the sparkling sea beyond. It was
cool where he lay, the air balmy, though
sunlight smote the rocks in front, hypno-
tising him with its brilliance. He felt
remote, merged in the blue and golden air,
alone in a vast and empty world. This was
liberty!
Late in the afternoon the brilliance faded
from the rocks. He staggered to his feet,
pulling on his clothes, and with them
remembrance of the sordidness of life. Gar-
ments hot and dusty and full of grass-
seeds that scratched his cool flesh. Cursing,
he pulled some out, a tiresome business he
abandoned in a few moments.
He felt extremely earthbound and human
as he clambered up the rocks, but when, a
little further on, round an out-jutting crag,
he all but stumbled over Sophie Gannet,
he appeared to her tortured imagination like
the most gallant of King Arthur's knights.
She saw only his face, lively blue eyes
vivid against tanned cheeks, and a mouth
she remembered for the gentle words it
once had uttered.
But John had seen her first. A transitory
vision seared his eyes, vision of a blind
face staring at the beauty of the sea, a
chijd’s face empty beyond reason.
Hearing his footstep, she started and
looked up in fear. For one dazzling second
terror fled before recognition. As a watcher
outside beholds a dark window illumined
by the coming of a lamp, so John beheld
her face lit with joy.
“Why, Sophie!” he cried.
At sound of his voice the light snuffed
out. Shame and fear and shrinking horror
swept into her grey eyes. A scarlet mantle
swept over her features, her hands covered
her face, she cowered back against the
boulders.
Pity smote John. Seeing her crouched
there was worse even than he had fancied;
she looked like some wild creature of the
mountains or plains injured by a hunter,
stricken, but lingering brokenly among the
rocks.
“Why, Sophie,” he repeated, “don’t you
know me?”
She shook her head so violently the old
felt hat—no pink ribbon about it now—
fell to the ground, and her hair blew round
her bowed face in a fine brown cloud.
John Fordyce stood awkwardly silent.
What could a man say? So embarrassed
did he feel that he might have been
tempted to believe her denial and pass on
had his eyes not seen the welcome which
had hailed his appearance.
He sat down close beside her.
“Surely you remember coming out to
the Sea Sprite with me?” he continued in
pleasant impersonal tones. “I often think
about the little girl with the goats.” He
talked on with eyes fixed on a bird circling
over the rocks below, until, by a slight
movement, he knew she had stirred. He
turned then, to meet her eyes fixed on him.
He was shocked by the ravaged features
unshaded by a hat. She dropped her eyes
immediately and edged away, blood pour-
ing afresh into a face so thin and aged in
its sharp lines that it made his heart ache.
“Poor child!” he exclaimed involuntarily.
The pat of his hand, the pity in his voice
touched Sophie in her prison of fear. She
burst into tears.
“Oh, go away, Mr. Fordyce,” she sobbed.
“Please go away. I’m not fit to talk to
you any more!”
“Don’t be a foolish little girl,” he
answered. “Tell me what is the matter.
Perhaps I can help.”
Sophie sobbed on. She looked so young,
so helpless and so racked by the violence
of her grief that he stretched out an arm
to draw her close. Instantly she strained
away, quivering in terror, head thrown
back, nostrils dilated. She gave a little
scream.
John tightened his grip. “Now r , look
here, Sophie,” he said sternly. “You were
very glad to see me at first—stop being so
silly. I know all about Baia Budson, and
I want to help you if I can. Just remem-
ber that lam your friend.” His calm voice
and the strength of the arms holding her
so tenderly reassured Sophie’s taut nerves
at last. Her old trust and admiration
fought with new-born fears. Her passion-
ate devotion to Peter had saved her reason
—all men were not like Baia! Little by
little the tale was told. Sophie, shame
quenched at last in the relief at pouring
some of the dark poison from her mind,
talked jerkily but unrestrainedly, more
than once thinking aloud, unconscious of the
man whose hands clenched in rage, and
upon whose heart blew a cold breath of
remorse at his own careless action; for
John traced in the sordid story more than
the girl could guess.
Too clearly by far for his peace of mind
did she paint the picture. Herself and old
Peter in bed and asleep when Budson came
rattling at the door. The unspeakable old
woman driving her bargain, and all the hor-
rible details of the awful night.
When she had finished John and Sophie
sat motionless and silent. A long line of
fastidious Fordyces shuddered behind him;
some may have been gay, some may have
been wild, but even the worst had been
kind!
“Peter was dead,” went on Sophie at last.
“Ma found him when she came home in
the morning. Baia said he was sorry and
paid for the funeral—and Peter would have
killed him if he could!” Tears welled up,
sobs shook her slight form. John com-
forted her like a baby; but what could
he do? Having broken with Euphemia, he
could not send Sophie to her with an order
to look after her—for the first time he
regretted making such a definite breach.
If only his mother were still living! She
would have known what to do, have wel-
comed the poor child and done her best
to bury in forgetfulness the dreadful past.
Mrs. Coffey did not appear to be of much
use, yet try that loophole he must. She
was a motherly soul underneath her absurd
gentility—when she beheld the wreck of
Sophie, looked into those big, terribly empty
eyes hiding their vision of horror, she would
surely melt sufficiently to defy even Coffey
if necessary; but the storekeeper was a
decent fellow, too. John made up his mind
to see that the whole port heard the true
tale, and he did not mean to spare Budson
in the telling.
“Baia must have been drunk,” he left
his planning to hear Sophie saying. “He
hasn’t been so cruel since. I thought I’d
diown myself when I found Peter was dead,
but there was no water; and when the tide
came in I was too frightened. He’d gone
off to the station for a few days, and told
me to be a good girl to Ma, and he would
give me a new dress when he got back. I
don’t want it, I don’t want it.” Her shrill
young voice rose in.cadences John knew of
old. He calmed her as he would a terri-
fied horse.
“You shan’t be there when he comes back,
my dear; I promise you that. No one need
stay with people they hate. We’ll go back
soon when you feel better, and I’ll take
you to Mrs. Coffey.”
Sophie shrank away from him. Her eyes
dilated and her cheeks blanched.
“Oh, no!” she cried wildly. “Oh, no! I
couldn’t go near her! She’s a lady! She
won’t have anything to do with me now.
Ma says she won’t, and Ma knows.”
John learned then all that Sophie had
endured at the hands of the old woman.
He saw more clearly than ever why the
child had hidden from everyone. “I’m not
even fit to talk to you,” she sobbed, trying
to escape his grasp.
“Rubbish! She is a shocking liar. Will
you come to Bella and Mark, then, if I
take you?”
John found that suggestion more disast-
rous than the first. To her John had
taken for a moment the place of Peter,
the only kind heart she could trust.
Of Bella’s part in the affair he began to
have a glimmering. Remorse blew with
even icier breath as he supplied the key
of jealousy and found it fit.
how could a fellow guess? A night
Out—and this calamity! His thoughts of
Bella were unmitigated by the slightest
shadow of mercy; he dubbed her a harpy,
a vampire, green-eyed and pitiless, for he
did not dream of the emotion he had awak-
ened in her. To him she meant nothing.
He began to feel that a man could never
get free of his actions. He thought of
Wilson. That was the only kind of liberty,
not caring for anybody or anything; but
a fellow would need to be dry as dust to
want that sort.
This poor child! What could he do?—
for do something he must!
Sophie supplied an answer. She had
stopped crying and sat listlessly in the
circle of his arm. Suddenly she spoke
with a kind of suppressed bitterness.
“It’s all the Mary Lee being burnt. I’d
still have Peter if she were here. We were
only happy on the sea.”
John twisted to look at her. She had
dropped her head on her hands again. He
could guess from the droop of her shoul-
ders how weary she must be, and a great
wave of tenderness engulfed him. He
could at least try to give her back some
of the confidence of youth. What a child
she was, in spite of everything!
“Sophie,” he said slowly, inwardly won-
dering at himself for even voicing the pre-
posterous idea, “would you like to come
away on the Sprite?”
The eyes she lifted to stare at him were
old and suspicious; but when she saw he
meant it, a ghost of her flashing smile
fought the shadows of her face. She wept
again, she kissed John’s hands, she told
him he was kinder even than Peter. And
John, smiling somewhat ruefully, thought
of Wilson and of the scandal he would leave
behind for evil tongues. Babbet he could
trust, for the old cook had taken a fancy
to her before. And did it matter what
folks thought? He had come away to be
free—he would do as he liked!
“How old are you?” he asked abruptly.
“Fifteen next month, Mr. Fordyce,” she
answered.
A mere infant, thought John, till he re-
membered his mother telling him that his
elder brother had been bom the day after
her sixteenth birthday.
Well, no matter what Sophie’s age, he
would take her. He could not bear to
think of her left in Cossack now. She had
been happy on the sea; he would take her
away into the Blue North and see what
Wilson—Wilson?—and Babbet and the
boys and he could do to mend her faith, and
make her forget what she should never have
learnt.
CHAPTER XIV.
Concerning Baia Budson’s unex-
pected return and the unseemly manner
of his welcome.
“Send the carpenter to me,” said John
to Wilson that evening. “He must rig
some sort of partition in the cabin—we are
taking on a passenger.”
Wilson’s eyebrows almost met the fringe
of his grizzled hair.
“Peculiar passenger, Mr. Fordyce, to
need a partition.”
“Very,” retorted John drily, leaving the
mate to wonder if his master was taking
that flamboyant young person up at Mark’s
pub for a pleasure cruise among the islands.
He had heard rumors. Well, it was not his
pigeon, but he had signed on to take the
Sea Sprite, on a pearling venture, and for the
one pearl they had, and the hundredweight
or two of shell in the hold, it occurred to
him they had already hanky-pankied round
more than enough; and he had heard in
Fremantle before they sailed that Mr. For-
dyce ran away from his wife because he
was tired of her nonsense. Quite evidently
they didn’t call him Handsome Jack for
nothing!
His amazement reached its zenith when
John, in the cabin after a supper eaten in
the height of discomfort, with the Sprite
canting inshore on the bottom of a dry
creek, informed Mr. Geddes he would be
pleased to drop him at the Lacepedes, but
that the Sprite would go out on the mid-
day tide to-morrow and set her course due
north, nor would she return to Cossack
for some months.
“I’m afraid, even if that don’t suit you,
I still must go, Mr. Geddes. I am taking
another person who is in a considerable
hurry to leave the place, and I promised
to go in the morning.”
“The sooner the better, my dear fellow!
We can’t get back fast enough for me.
Ha, ha! What will our Yankee friend
say when he sets eyes on my warrant!
May I ask who the new man is?”
John’s eyes sparkled mischievously.
“You will have 'to know to-morrow, so
I may as well tell you now; but don’t let
the cat out of the bag if you go ashore
to-night—l am staying aboard. It’s no
mfm, Mr. Geddes; it’s a young girl called
Soohie Gannet.”
Wilson’s start of surprise and the dis-
approving droop of his mouth caused John
to chuckle inwardly.
“A young girl!” exclaimed Mr. Geddes.
“Yes,” said John, suddenly serious.
“Listen while I tell you a shocking story.”
John Fordyce could tell a tale with the
best; before he had finished both his hear-
ers were filled with disgust and indigna-
tion. Even Wilson acknowledged some
degree of merit- in taking the child away,
although Geddes, while approving, also
called him a quixotic fool. John laughed
that aside. What he could not tell them
was the real motive of his action, the deep-


AN INEXPENSIVE STOCK SADDLE
9 a=BS
§S:.
THE STOCK RIDER
This saddle is exceptionally good value
for the money. It has a pigskin seat,
and capped pads set up into the skirt,
which gives a better grip. It also has
the favorite short panel, with wide
leather facings at back and leather points down
sides.
£5/2/6 Bare Mounts extra, con-
sisting of Stirrup
Leathers 6/-, Folded Girth S/- and N.P. 3-bar
Stirrups 6/6. £6 complete.
Sent freight free for cash with order to any N.S.W.
railway station.
lin. Ringhead Bridle, with Ring Bit, 12/-. 27in. of
Collar Check for Saddle Cloth, 5/6. Medium-size
Saddle Pouch, 6/9. Freight free if sent with saddle.
Price,
We have still cheaper saddles for knockabout work, with h£gh or
low pads. The “Farm,” at 72/6 Bare; or the “Farmer and Settler,” at
85/- bare. Mounts for either saddle, 12/6 extra. Why buy second-hand
saddles when you can get new ones at these prices?
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
35 YEARS OF HONEST MERCHANDISING AND TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING.
Hie Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY
!| Bulletin {?uil<dinqs ]|
I 252 Georqe Street.
L vj S V D N F.
See announcement page i
iOldlVd 3HI
DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
• SYDNEY to LONDON
via America! An inviting highway!
£s&*****
Thousands study the
slcy from the impres-
sive Adler planetarium
in Chicago's Grant
Park.
Below: Santa Barbara
dons mantillas and
strums guitars at her
annual "Fiesta"—relic
of Spanish gaiety.
FROM the Southern Cross to the
Northern Crown, the Short, Trans-
Pacific Route to England is at once the
most interesting, the most educational,
and the most picturesque.
Matson liners span the Pacific to San
Francisco over an enchanted dream-trail
through phosphorescent seas, to the great
continent of America. After a day in
Auckland, you touch at Suva in the Fijis,
Pago Pago in Samoa, Honolulu in Hawaii
•—each with its own lure.
From San Francisco you have a choice of
routes across America. Perhaps you will
prefer to bridge the snow-crested Rockies,
then sweep across vast golden plains to
the frenzied bustle of Chicago. Or it may
he the far-famed glitter of Hollywood
which attracts you, and the deep mys-
teries of the south-western deserts. Either
of these routes to New York presents a
comprehensive picture of the American
nation, a new vista enormous in its scope.
Matson liners are cool, airy, and ap-
pointed to make your voyage free from
care and filled with pleasure. Movies . . .
daily newspapers . . . deck sports . . .
superb cuisine . . . orchestra ... cour-
teous and efficient service.
May we send you an illustrated booklet
and full particulars?
Write to Dept. Al.
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu . . . May 4 to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26 (
1932
Book via MATSON for the utmost
in travel comfort, pleasure and
convenience.
Below: Olvera Street, in Los
Angeles Plaza, preserves the*
flavor and romance of Califor-
nia's Spanish days.
; : ;<:-,>v;:;.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge S-freet, Sydney.
Telephone: B 7981-3
rooted sense of being in some measure a
party to the crime. . ,
“She will come off as soon as it is light,
Mr. Wilson, and if she doesn’t come I shall
go and bring her. Had she come to-night
there might have been inquiries made —
and trouble. That old hag might endeavor
to prove herself guardian or some such
fudge. We up-anchor and off as soon as
there is enough water. My only regret
is not getting my hands on Budson, but
Sophie implored me not to wait, and was
so pitiful in her fear of him that I decided
to let that part of the business slide for
the time being. But, by God! I’ll teach
that beast a lesson some day!”
Babbet greeted the news with delight,
but his remarks put a slightly different
complexion on the affair.
“I’ll take care of ’er, never fear, sir.
Poor motherless creature! I did ’ear wot
that devil of a Biter Budson ’ad bin up
to. But the young leddy’ll be well looked
after ’ere, fer it’s me own opinion, if I
may make so bold, sir, that she’s changing
one o’ the worst fer one o’ the best!”
“You’re making a mistake there, Babbet.
This is no question of exchange. Sophie
is a child still, and it is our business to
make her happy again if possible. And
I think you and the boys can do that better
than anyone. And perhaps the Sprite more
than all—she loves the sea dearly.”
Babbet looked after John as he walked
away. A fine upstanding fellow, the skipper.
No wonder they called him Handsome Jack.
“ ’Andsome is as ’andsome does, too,”
murmiired Babbet, clearing away the
dishes. “But thet Sophie isn’t so much
the child ’e thinks. She fair worships ’im.
Babbet knows wot he knows, an’ ’e’ll stake
’is oath no child looks at a man like she
looked at ’im w’en they was eatin’ me
scones —leastways, it be one wot is damn
near growed up! ’Ere, Puss. Come on,
’ere’s yer supper. Yer’ll ’ave someone ter
cuddle yer now, yer old dog!”
About eight o’clock in the morning Baia
Budson swaggered into Mark’s hotel, roar-
ing for rum and milk. Bella left Mark to
serve him.
“I’m thirsty as the Devil in Hell,” he
proclaimed in his loud voice, leaning over
the bar, shuffling his splendid frame about.
“All in me hurry to get home. Nice to
have a home, Mark!” he leered. “I left
the station yesterday, sweated into Roe-
bourne, and was up before the sun in my
hurry to get out. Ever know me in such
a hurry before, because I never did? Give
me another—then I’m off home to break-
fast. Give my love to Bella.”
He swung out noisily, but in Jess than
an hour he had returned.
“Sophie down here?” he demanded.
Bella and Mark were breakfasting in the
room with the ship’s lanterns swinging over
the table. They both knew the pitch of
Baia’s voice boded ill. His temper was up.
“Hey, Bella! Old Ma said Sophie was
probably down here. If not, know
where to find her. What’s the joke?”
Bella had been awake most of the night.
Her face looked old and her eyes haggard.
She narrowed the lids now and leant with
what she imagined to be ladylike languor
on an elbow delicately lifted to the table.
She spoke with well-simulated indifference,
but throughout long dark hours she had
tossed and turned in an agony of remorse
and disappointment. John Fordyce had not
again come near the pub. What could
have gone wrong? How had her plans
failed to bring him again to her? She
hated Budson fiercely, as ji man might hate
a weapon which broke his hand, leaving
him defenceless. Her revenge had proved
a two-edged sword. She had destroyed
Sophie and gained nothing. She had no
idea where the child might be, but the mes-
sage from old Ma made jealousy flare
anew. If John did not care for her friend-
ship, she would make trouble for him!
“How should I know?” said she languidly.
“Bella is not her keeper and all. Away
amusing herself, as like as not. You, Baia!
Go look for her on Handsome Jack’s
schooner!” Bella sat back and laughed
spitefully.
“Bella, don’t talk rubbish! Mr. Fordyce
and Mr. Geddes are not that sort,” inter-
posed Mark. “They are going to the Lace-
pedes to arrest those Yankees. Mr. Geddes
told me so last night—going out on the
noon tide.”
“Then you had better look sharp, Baia,”
Bella said.
Budson’s eyes moved from one to the
other; his restless body twitched.
“He’s an interfering young swine, that
Fordyce,” he said slowly. “I’ll take a look,
I think, Mark. God, it would be funny to
catch him out!”
Between the pub and the foreshore Bud-
son fell in with an old scrouger who
scratched a precarious livelihood in the port
—a wreck of a man who, maimed and par-
tially blinded by an exploded fuse when
dynamiting fish, and yellow with malaria
contracted in tbe Far North, hung about
doing odd jobs and cadging drinks from
any who would take pity on him.
“Morning, Baia,” he greeted Budson
affably. “You don’t look too pleased! Your
girl slipped you up?”
“The devil!” growled Budson. “What
d’yer mean?”
“Oh, only what I heard up at Coffey’s.”
“What did you hear?”
“Thirsty w’ork telling, Baia.”
“Come on then—come on!”
Budson pushed him into the bar of the
hulk, and within the strange dim cabin of
the old Perseverance called for the drinks.
“Now, out with it!” he ordered
“Well, it ain’t much. I was hanging
round at Coffey’s when Fordyce came in.
He asked Coffey could he speak to his
wife, and when she come in he said soft,
but not so soft but wot I could hear, ‘l’m
taking Sophie away on the Sprite, Mrs.
Coffey,’ he says. ‘Seeing as no one else
here will do anything.’ That was one for
her, and she redded up. ‘I found her cry-
ing on the rocks yesterday,’ says he, ‘and
she ain’t got no chanst left here.’ ‘Oh,’ says
Mrs. Coffey, ‘l’m glad, Mr. Fordyce. But,’
she stumbled a bit and got redder still.
‘But,’ saj'-s she, ‘it isn’t exactly proper. Wot,’
says she, ‘will your family think?’ He
laughed at that. ‘And wot,’ says he, ‘will
Cossack think?’ She redded more, till I
thought she’d burst up. ‘I know it is only
your good heart,’ says she. ‘l’m very glad
to hear it, Madam,’ says he. ‘She’s aboard
now and my cook feeding her on his best
cakes,’ says he. ‘Now I want some lollies
and a bolt of stuff for her to make herself
a few decent garments, and anything else/
says he, ‘you think she might like.’ And
he chose a roll of white stuff, and I knew
it was silk, too. I was there when Mrs.
Coffey bought it off a Chinaman from
Singapore. And he got a fan and some
beads, and Mrs. Coffey brought some of
her own books, a.nd said to be sure and
tell Sophie not to fergit her reading. And
then others come in and they stopped talk-
ing.”
The whole time Budson’s restless hands
had fiddled with' his belt, with his glass,
with his hat. His eyebrows gathered in
a black bush in his face. He swore violently.
He would tpach that Johnnie to interfere.
“Posing as a saint, too!” he roared. “His
good heart! Not much of him’ll be good
when I’ve done with him, nor of Sophie
either!”
He strode back to Mark’s and wrenched
a stockwhip from the saddle of his mount,
the patient beast still standing hot and
thirsty at the hitching-post where he had
left it when he first arrived.
Men left their jobs to stare at the sight
of Baia Budson stamping over the muddy
bed of the creek towards the Sprite. A
knot gathered at the edge of the man-
groves. The colored crews chattered shrilly,
dropping wood and water-buckets to gesti-
culate with excitement.
The Sea Sprite lay well out in the chan-
nel, with no other craft near. The noise
ashore brought the native divers to the
rail. Already they were learning the white
man’s ways—half a dozen had been squat-
ting at cards on deck, the others sleeping
in the sun after the labor of watering the
boat in the early morning; but their quick
and curious ears soon picked up an altera-
. tion in the cries from the shore. Sharp eyes
spotted Budson ploughing his way through
the mangrove mud, tiny trickles of blue
denoting the turn of the tide, and wetting
his boots as he advanced. The clamor of
the boys brought Babbet out to inquire;
a moment later he hurried into the cabin,
where John was displaying his purchases
to distract a tremulous and tearful Sophie.
“Excuse me, sir, but Cap’n Budson’s
cornin’ across the mud, an’ it looks to me
like a stockwhip he’s got.”
Sophie leapt up with a shriek.
“Curse you, Babbet!” said John angrily.
“Never mind, Sophie, I’m glad!”
“Oh, he’s come back, he’s come back!
Don’t let him get me!” She cowered shiv-
ering into a corner.
“Of course I won’t, child! I tell you
I am glad he has come. I’ll teach him a
lesson.”
John divested himself of his coat, and,
rolling up his sleeves, made for the com-
panion-way. His progress was barred by
a little, panting, clinging body.
“No, no! He’ll kill you! Mr. Fordyce,
if he gets you he will kill you—and then
he will take me back to Ma!”
The anguished voice, the great eyes wild
with fear, the quivering hands clutching at
his own, turned him sick with pity.
“Hush, Sophie, hush!”
“He will kill you! You should never
have taken me away!”
Geddes and Wilson came scrambling
down the lop-sided stairs to where they
struggled on the sloping floor of the cabin.
“Promise me, promise me!” screamed the
girl. “Don’t leave me—don’t go near him!”
“You’d better not go against her, Mr.
Fordyce,” said Wilson. “Looks as if she
might get a brain-fever or go out of her
mind.”
John, staring down into a distorted face,
feared Wilson might be right. He laid a
soothing hand on Sophie’s head.
“Budson is coming,” he said to Wilson.
“I must deal with him.”
The mate looked solemn. Mr. Geddes
gave a whistle. Sophie continued to' shriek
and sob.
“You’re not to fight him! No, no, no!
He will kill you! Promise me!”
John thought hard and quickly. He
noted the white circle round Sophie’s nos-
trils, felt madness in her clutching hands.
He would have to postpone a personal en-
counter with Budson; should he by any
chance come off the worse—a possibility
considering the older man’s magnificent
physique—then the overstrained mind of
Sophie might be for ever damaged.
“Very well, I’ll promise you, Sophie. I
won’t go near him, and he shall not come
on the schooner. See here, I’ll take my
gun to keep him away.”
“Mr. Fordyce, sir,” called Babbet’s voice
down the companion-way. “That there
Baia is mighty close and swearing ’e’ll do
for you.”
“Look after her, Wilson,” cried John,
jumping towards the steps with his gun
in his hands. “Make her understand I’m
safe.’’
(To be continued next week.)


YOU’LL STOP , ANYWAY , BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
g
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
The “Kismet” ’3l is the most scientific
instrument yet designed for the accurate
recording of air pressure in pneumatic
tyres.
It is a dead accurate gauge. Absolute accuracy
in reading and ready visibility is ensured by
wide spacing of' progressive pressure readings,
calibrated individually in large figures on a flat
surface. There is no rubber sack, and nothing
to get out of order.
Supplied in neat leather wallet —
in three models, Balloon, High
Pressure, Giant.
Price, 9/6 each.
V
mm
m
The most
accurate
GAUGE on
the market
-its QiitistL
’3l
TYRE
TESTER
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Winooka, favorite for the Doncaster, was
withdrawn on the course from the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap at Rosehill on
Saturday; nevertheless, a lot of people re-
turned to Sydney confident that they had
seen the Doncaster winner in that race. The
reference is to Jacko, who was favorite,
along with Sun Eagle (it was generally 5
to 2 the pair, though some bookmakers had
Jacko a bit shorter), Dilemma (7 to 1)
being the only other backed with any spirit,
though there were 18 starters. Rafflight,
successful in good company on the previous
Saturday, drifted to fourteens. He quickly
set up a lead, as he had done in the West-
mead Handicap, and nothing looked to have
a chance with him as they entered the
straight. However, Sun Eagle came fast
from the bunch, and so did Jacko, and they
made a very exciting finish of it, Rafflight
being placed first by a head and the others
second; Sir Duninald, still a bit burly, was
fourth. The timepiece recorded Imin.
262 sec. for seven furlongs.
Jacko’s performance was much the best.
Drawn on the inside, he began smartly
enough, but lost liis position, and seemed
hopelessly placed at the turn. However, he
put in a brilliant run over the last furlong,
and with another 20 yards to go he must
have won. Apparently a mile suits him
better than scvennfnrlongs. He carried 271 b.
more than his Dbncastcr weight, which is
only 6st. 71b., and given reasonable luck this
Page expects the gelded son of Magpie—
Foxy to capture the Doncaster. A stylish
black, he is improving with every gallop.
Sun Eagle’s chance is also to be re-
spected ; this Queensland-bred stallion has
Gert •. "O h Bert, quick', there's k
GIRL SHOUTINQ FOR HELP*
Bert " zat so 7 "
CqERT '/Why don't You DA.«EH im a.nd
SAVE HER ?"
Bert ; ' liC\ not the bloke
EsHE N^<\KTS'",
only 7s.t. 81b., and seems to be back to the
capital form he showed last Easter. George
Price has done well with Rafflight, who is
not in the Doncaster.
Booth has a worthy representative for
the rich two-year-old races at Randwick in
Tingalba, by Treclare out of Trimacre, a
former pet of the Parramatta stable. With
Cook substituted for a boy who had ridden
him in a slovenly fashion the previous
Saturday, Tingalba (5 to 4) made hacks
of his opponents in a division of the Nur-
sery Handicap. They included Caramba,
who has not trained on. N.E.F., who is
also locally trained, was a warm favorite
for the other division, but could only run
third to King Pin (9 to 2), a big Heroic
gelding, Bombastic being second. Bombastic
is by Windbag—Dame Andria, but his sire’s
traetability has not descended to him; in
the enclosure he “cow-kicked” his jockey,
Reynolds, who was about to weigh in.
_ Defeat in the Victoria St. Leger has not
dimmed the powers of Ammon Ra, who going
out at 6 to 4 on, always had the measure of
his five opponents in the Rawson Stakes. High
Disdain tried to go with him in front for a
few furlongs, but fell back beaten before
the home turn was reached, and Veilmond
15 to 2) threatened danger and that was all.
What fortunes, have been lost on this boomed
horse! Ammon Ra was lengths clear all the
way down the straight; it was reserved for
Nightmarch, who has had a season at the
stud, to run second, with Veilmond next. So
first, second and third Were bred in Maoriland
—and if Phar Lap had been in the field it
would have been the same. Nightmarch looks
quite chirpy, and ought to pay his way in the
w.f.a. races at Randwick.
Punters who stuck to Myles la Coplen in
spite of his poor showing in the Westmead
Handicap were repaid in the Railway Handi-
cap, which the Queensland gelding won hand-
somely. It was a good betting race, Whit-
tingham, Lightning March, Pavilion, Panola
and Fuji San being backed as well as Myles
la Coplen, whose supporters got eights.
Phlare (20 to 1) it was who fought out the
finish with him, and for a moment this three-
year-old daughter of Legionnaire—Cymbala
looked like worrying Myles la Coplen out of
it, but when the jockey (James) shook him
up he responded well. Lightning March was
a fair third. He is fancied for the Doncaster,
but looks a bit frail for battling his way
through a big field. Pavilion shaped fairly
well.
Panther was another who showed improve-
ment for which the public was not pre-
pared. A sad disappointment in City Tatt.’s
Cup, he was always well up in the Autumn
Handicap, and Cook brought him through
with a victorious run when Maurice Bede
and Flinders, the leaders into the straight,
ran out wide. Second to Panther, whose
price was 10 to 1, was his stable-companion
Carry On (10 to 1), who seemed to be
carried out a bit by Maurice Bede and
Flinders. So honest a mare must be
respected in a race over a distance, for she is
a proved stayer, but it is hard to see how
she is going to give lumps of weight in the
Sydney Cup to the three-year-olds. For
instance, she has Bst. 101 b.; Pretzel only 7st.
41b. Chide (7 to 2) was a fair third.
Century Tire, the favorite, was always in
trouble, but it was not his form. Perhaps
the jockey, Reynolds, was suffering from the
effects of the kick administered by Bom-
bastic.
My Talisman (16 to 1) brought a satisfac-
tory day for McShortodds to a conclusion
by just beating Cylanta (5 to 1) in the
Parramatt.'vJVlile. He also improved remark-
ably on reCfent form; on the other hand it
was Cylanta’s third successive second. Love
Song, the favorite, was third.
For Randwick next Saturday:—
. TT j- m
Novice Handicap: Rowan ; next, Truesign.
Fairfield Handicap: Tingalba; next Oro.
Chipping Norton Stakes: Ammon Ra.
Liverpool Handicap: Winooka; next,
Gloriole. _
Celebration Handicap: Century Tire;
ne ?L Pretzel.
Cabramatta Handicap: Jacko; next, Le
Legion,
''' , T^..,
What used to be known as the. St. Ivilda
Cu P ts ao r w classified as the St. Ivilda Han-
dicap. Melbourne racing programmes had
become overladen with cups, hence the
change. Worth £6OO to the winner, last
Saturday’s event attracted 12 runners, many
« f whom ha <l competed in the Australian
‘Cup a week before, Madstar, hero of the
marathon journey, was poorly supported at
14 to 1- lfc being considered that a mile and
a ha lf was too short for the Stardrift geld-
ing. However, another South Aus. thor-
oughbred carried off the spoils, Kidston, with
Neville Percival up, squeezing home by half
a head from game little Baba, who nearly
succeeded in registering her fourth victory
on end. These mares are of equal age (four
years) ; Baba had to concede the daughter
Pistol 121 b. The tactics of Skidmore in
dashing to the front on Baba did not please
the backers of Philip Russell’s candidate,
The 1£ mile was covered in 2min. 32Jsec. —
very fast time for Oaulfield.
' " * / ‘
Kidston belongs to Sidney Kidman, who
bred her. The dam, Allyerra, is by Comedy
King from Fides, who produced True Scot,
Braw Scot, Fidelio and many other excel-
lent performers that were trained by the
late W. S. Hickenbotham. Kidman waited
until he became a millionaire before enter-
ing the racing game, but his youngest
brother, Charlie, dabbled in it from early
manhood. Four years ago Sid Kidman went
close to landing the Melbourne Cup with
Silvius. That imported stallion lias gone
to the stud, and was represented in the
Orrong Two-year-old at Caulfield by Silver-
ton.
This juvenile race led to the destruction
of Cape Royal and James Wilson’s colt Kar-
undok. Latter had only once previously
appeared in public, but, being descended from
the dam of Abundance, was regarded as a
coming winner. Cape Royal is the colt that
George Jones brought over from M.L., and
with which he won at the V.A.T.C. autumn
meeting. Going out joint favorite with Top
Hole, one of Ivellow’s numerous Heroic
youngsters, Cape Royal was beginning to
draw in the leaders at the turn into the
straight, when he galloped on the heels of
Palsgrave and fell, bringing down Karundok.
Each youngster fractured a limb and had
to be destroyed. The jockeys escaped seri-
ous injury. An offer of £3OOO had been
refused for Cape Royal by Jones on behalf
of his patron, W. B. Ivemball. Top Hole
justified the stable plunge on him by scoring
from Cimarron, who hung out badly when
approaching the post. Dam of Top Hole
is by Greenstead, and traces back to the
famous brood mare Black Swan.
Jones had a disastrous afternoon. Apart
from Capo Royal being destroyed, he lost
heavily over Actaeon in the Übique Welter
and saw Lady Pam run a poor race in the
South Yarra Handicap. In her homeland
Lady Pam (a daughter of Limond) finished
secomd in the G. G. Stead Cup to Bronze
Eagle, who had 111 b. pull in weight. So far
the mare has not reproduced anything like
her true form in Australia, but she may
come to hand on reaching Sydney. Actaeon
had been runner-up to Viol d’Amour in the
V.R.C. Elms Handicap, and this prompted
stable connections to go for a killing at Caul-
field. Through J. O’Brien being disabled as
the result of his fall in the juvenile event,
Bastian obtained the mount on Actaeon in
the Übique Welter. His style of riding may
not have suited the favorite, who came home
buried in the ruck. The winner was Myarin,
a 10 to 1 chance. He led all the way and
showed some of the galloping ability that
enabled him to win during visits to Sydney.
Last autumn he annexed the A.J.C. Tocal
Handicap.
Race in which Lady Pam sported silk was
the South Yarra Handicap. She was
allowed to go out at 20 to 1; Stephen and
Gordon’s Leap shared favoritism. Ivellow
played up a large part of his Top Hole win-
nings on Gordon’s Leap, a three-year-old
gelding by Heroic: for his success at Epsom
on the previous Wednesday, Gordon’s Leap
had to put up a 71b. penalty. This did not
adequately account for liis failure to get
near the front when the field settled down.
Ray Wilson, on Green Moth (5 to 1), led
from post to finish, and experienced no
difficulty in stalling off Stephen. By Top
Gallant from Ardesia, Stephen is trained
by Lou Robertson for A. P. Wade, of New
South Wales. Stephen ruled favorite for the
Newmarket Handicap in the ante-post wager-
ing, but went slightly amiss before the day
and started at 20 to 1. His d : splay on
Saturday shows there is still room for
improvement.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—■
Hollymount Handicap: Median; next,
Dutchie.
Moonee Ponds Handicap: Ividston ; next,
Aleman.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Conserving liis energy for a fast finish.
Tommy Fairliall (10.0) outfought Jimmy
Kelso (9.Slj) in the later rounds of their
scrap at Leichhardt. Fairhall had “foxed” his
way through three-fifths of the mill, and
Ivelso, employing crowding tactics, was well
ahead as the tenth opened. Thenceforward
he was often harried, but he kept coming
back. Silence greeted the decision in Kelso’s
tavor. A draw would have given noisy satis-
faction.
* * Me *
Tom Lurich is no longer treated with
leniency by the wrestling referee at Leich-
hardt. He was disqualified for knocking
Walter Browning down with a right to the
chin in the fifth round of their affair. Brown-
ing’s travesty on the Boston crab made
Lurich submit to a fall in the second, and
the Canadian surrendered in his turn to a
body-scissors in the fourth. Lurich was the
better wrestler and puncher.
The Ins and Outs
“Sangaree”: Jamaica had another good
win over Tennyson’s English side. Headley
agfiin came into the limelight with 155 n. 0..
while Nunes, who did not visit us with the
W.I. side last year, reached 125. For the
Englishmen, Kemp-Welch, the Cambridge
and Kent batsman, who is a possibility for
the next English team in Australia, played
a fine knock for 172 n.o. Jamaica scored 226
and 363 for 5 wickets, and England 402 and
186.
* ❖ $ sjs
“Salix”: English cricket-bat makers are
greatly troubled by a mysterious disease
afflicting the willow trees whose wood is
used for the purpose, large numbers of
these being specially grown principally
in Essex and other south-eastern coun-
ties. This is known as “watermark.’’
and is of bacterial origin, attacking
the trees at the crown and working down-
wards. So far no remedy has been dis-
covered. Not only will the batmakers suffer,
but the many farmers who have planted the
bat willow as a staple crop on their holdings
and moke a good thing of it will also be hit.
Australia may get a chance in this regard.
Large quantities of salix coerulea alba , the
bat willow, have been planted in various
parts of Australia, and bats from it are
being manufactured here. If the English
affliction continues, this country may yet
develop a great bat-exporting industry,
( Continued on page SI.)
“Roller”: London “Spectator” has been
searching for the oldest living cyclist. The
headliner to date seems to be a Yorkshire
wo man of 95, who does her daily dozen miles,
Protests, however, have been entered against
on the ground that she rides a tricycle,
a we ird machine which I am game to lay a
shade of odds the modern generation cannot
even imagine. Next on the list is a Sussex
pa rson of 93, the Rev. Frederick Hastings,
w h o reels off a couple of sermons each Sun-
day, and totg up a goo d mileage on his
hike during the week. Next place is filled
hy another padre, a Methodist minister of
Bristol, named Cater. He, however, is a mere
pup 0 f 39, and has evidently years of pedal
]} llg a head of him.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Queensland cyclists do not,
as a ru i e> fi gure i n big races in the other
states, except in the national champion-
ships. This year, however, it is intended
have a representative in the Australian
Tourist Trophy race to be held at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) on Easter Saturday, and a fund
for the rider’s expenses is being raised.
the Queensland section of the A.C.TJ. con-
tributing a tenner to the hat. Choice will
probably fall on Bob Todd, who is the
outstanding performer on the Queensland
roads to-day.


EASTER
SPECIALS.
1932
Your Murdoch
Hat....
18/9
(Formerly 25/-)
A superlative-quality Hat for
Easter, and a saving of 6/3.
Men’s pure Fur Felt Hats, in the
popular “Snap-brim” style. An
excellent range of colors to suit
every taste. Silk lined.
Usually 25/-
EASTER SPECIAL . .
18/9
Sac Suits
m
g
NOW
5716
Have a Murdoch Suit this Easter-
tide! A superb selection of All-
wool Worsted Suitings in the
latest weaves and color tones.
Ready for service, in
sizes 3 to 7, for ....
57/6
Sports Suits
I
ĝ
NOW
3716
For every sporting attraction!
Tweed Sports Suits for Men, in
dignified fancy color tones.
Smartly cut, with three patch
pockets and half-belt at back. In
s'zes 3 to 7.
NOW . . .
37/6
Smart Shoes
27/6
g
NOW
£1
Men’s Solid Leather Shoes, in
Black, Tan or Nut-brown.
Square, medium or wide toe
shapes; genuine welted soles.
ALSO Men’s 10/6 Golf Shirts
8/6; Men’s 3/11 Rib Cashmere
Socks 2/3; Men’s 4/6 Broadway
ties 1/11.
Write for a copy of Murdoch's
beautifully - illustrated Winter
Catalogue absolutely FREE.
We pay freight.
Kindly address all letters to
Desk “R.”
Murdoch’s Ltd
SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.”
The Ins and Outs
South Africa had another good win in
the second Test with Maoriland at Welling-
ton, coming out ahead by 8 wickets. M.L.
started its second innings 46 runs behind,
but found the opposition bowling too for-
midable the side going for 193. Vivian fol-
lowed up his century in the first Test with
a well-made 73, but none of the others got
far past the 20 mark. The /bowler of the
day was lefthander Quinn, with 4 for 07,
while McMillan and Balaskas each took a
couple of wickets. A feature of these Tests
has been the comparative failure of fast-
bowler Bell, who did so well in Australia.
Apparently, the slower turf of Maoriland
does not suit him as well as the Australian
pitches.
* ❖ **! : *
Victoria beat South Australia handsomely
in their Sheffield Shield match at Melbourne,
a rain-affected pitch telling against the
visitors in their second innings on the last
day. Held up by rain on the Monday, the
home side carried its first-innings score
to 425, Wall coming out with the good
figures, under the conditions, of 4 for 86.
Grimmett was not as deadly as usual, with
3 for 118, but Lee did fairly with 3 for 90.
With 156 runs to get to catch up. South
Aus. collapsed before Fleetwood Smith and
Alexander for 68. Fleetwood Smith brought
his tally for the match to 11 wickets for
120 runs—a very remarkable performance
for a bowler making his first Sheffield Shield
appearance. If he does not watch his step
he might get a chance in some future Aus-
tralian Eleven —say, about 1942. Alex-
ander’s 3 for 22 was also worth noting.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally” : Batting for Lane Cove Shire
team against Western Suburbs, A. Campbell
went in first in each innings and carried his
bat throughout both for 103 and 106. Then
he took 5 wickets. Double centuries are
common enough, but for a batsman to make
a pair without losing his wicket from the
first ball in each innings to the last does not
happen every day. Campbell played first-
grade cricket with Gordon before the war.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: That great little batsman
Charlie Macartney shook up some of the
stickory taw players so common nowadays
by making 94 in 32 minutes for Gordon in
a first-grade match. It was not a swiping
exhibition either, though it included seven
sixes, but a dazzling display with strokes all
round the wicket. Counting several delays,
which included one lost ball, the scorer could
not have been actually batting more than z 5
minutes. Possibly Macartney was wise to
retire from big cricket at the height of his
powers. Those who saw this innings went
away firm in the conviction that he was a
bit premature about* it. all the same.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The schoolboy tennis marvel
McGrath added to his fame by winning
through to the finals of the Melbourne
C. C. championships and then giving H’op-
man a gruelling four-set go. The N.S.W.
authorities have decided to sanction the lad’s
proposed trip to Europe, a motion declaring
him an accredited representative of N.S.W.
being carried after some opposition. The
opposition came from ladies, who are to be
congratulated on showing a great deal more
consideration for the lad and his future than
foolish persons of the other sex who are
exploiting him and getting advertisement for
themselves.
* ❖ * t-
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis authori-
ties have got themselves into something of
a tangle over their decision to permit Mrs.
Crawford to accompany the Davis Cup team
and also allow her £l5O for expenses. Last
week a new angle presented itself. The lady
is going to write for newspapers. After
much argument it was resolved that she
must submit her stuff for censoring to the
hapless manager, Clemenger. One ray of
light helped to dissipate the gloom. Wimble-
don wired that it had raised its sub. from
£3OO to £450.
* * * $
“Footfault”: After an exchange of cables
Australia, which was desirous of meeting Cuba
in the first round of the Davis Cup at New
Orleans, has agreed with the Cuban desire
that Havana shall be the venue. The Cubans
want the match to begin on May 7, but the
tourists ask that the opening date be altered
to May 13. This will give our men* addi
tional time for practice, and the date will
probably be altered as requested. Aus-
tralia’s next encounter will be the hurdle,
for America is certain to supply the oppo-
sition. If our men can stall off the Yankees
they will be well in line for meeting France
in the challenge round.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The Queensland L.T.A. has
resolved to hold a special testimonial tourna-
ment for the benefit of C. B. St. John, one
of the stalwarts of the game in Bananaland
for a score of years. St. John, who is official
coa.ch to the L.T.A., was Queensland cham-
pion for many years and represented the
State on numerous occasions. He was a
remarkable athlete, for he was minus his
right hand. This did not prevent him from
shining in other sports as well as tennis. He
was an excellent left-hand slow bowler in
first-grade cricket, while he actually figured
with distinction as a Rugby Union full-
back for Queensland against N.S.W.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Prompted by some
remarks of Rufus Stewart, the Australian
golf authorities have been trying to evolve
ways and means of making a charge for wit-
nessing the big games which are followed by
thousands of spectators. The money would go
to a fund to send players to overseas tourneys,
an essential step towards the improvement of
Australian golf. Admission charges are the
invariable rule in England and America,
and the visit of Ilagen and Kirkwood showed
that the matter can be successfully tackled
here. The secretary of the American Golf
Association recently gave some figures show-
ing the gate money there is in the game.
The open championship at Toledo drew
25.000 dollars, and the amateur champion-
ship at Chicago, 20,000. Even the women’s
championship at Buffalo netted 7000 dollars.
No special expenditure for stands, etc., is re-
quired. All that is necessary is ground to
walk on, the spectators supplying their own
means of locomotion.
'l* * :ji *
“Hamilton”: Brisbane has recently been
the scene of an interesting presentation by
ex-Agent-General Macartney, who is one of
the pioneers of Queensland golf. When in
Europe lie secured a quantity of bronze from
the propellers of H.M.S. Vindictive, of Zee-
brugge fame, and had it made into putters.
One of these has been presented to each
of the Brisbane clubs with which the donor
was associated before leaving Queensland,
and all were inspected and passed bv the
great Harry Vardon. The clubs will be
used as trophies for special competitions.
* « * *
“Dormy”: The Sydney grade matches
committee has raised a pannikin storm in
metropolitan golfing circles by deciding to
divide the A-grade competition in two,
instead of carrying on in one as heretofore.
It has placed the senior clubs, Royal Syd-
ney, Australian. Manly, Killara, Concord
and Bonnie Doon, in one half and Moore
Park, Long Reef, Pymble and N.S.W.
in the other. The original method is pre-
ferred by most players on both sides, but
is not now possible since the addition of
two clubs to the A-grade ranks, Pymble
and N.S.W. That would have meant an in-
crease in the number’ of matches, and since
these are not popular with rank and
file players because of the time they waste,
that is out of the question. Nevertheless,
the objectors are not satisfied and have
asked for a reconsideration of the change.
❖ ❖ ijc
“Brassey”: The big golf tourneys this year
look like free gifts to the younger genera-
tion. In Melbourne, juvenile H. L. Wil-
liams, winner of last year’s Australian
amateur championship, is said to be show-
ing even better form this season than last.
In Sydney, equally juvenile Jim Ferrier,
who took the N.S.W. amateur title for 1931,
is knocking spots off course records all
round Sydney. At his own club of Manly,
in winning the club’s open autumn medal,
Ferrier equalled his own course record of
70. A few days later at the N.S.W. club
course, at La Perouse, he did the two rounds
SETTING HIS HAND TO THE PLOUGH.
MEMBER: “I see Bruggleston’s taking up golf.”
CLUB SERETARY: “Fes; and most of my new-laid fairways, too.
blast him!”
in 70 and 68, both better than any previous
record there by an amateur.
“Hoylake”: Percy Alliss, who can confi-
dently claim to have been the moving spirit
in fastening golf on the German nation, has
ended a long sojourn in their country, where
he was for some years professional at the
Berlin Golf Club. A first-rate player, who
has figured frequently in the big European
tourneys, Alliss has never done much in the
championship events, though he has the
German open title, now held by Boyer, a
son of the soil, to his credit. Alliss, who
is young as professional golfers go, has
settled in England as pro. to the Bea-
consfield club. With much enlarged oppor-
tunities to improve his game he may bo
heard of in the coming British open and
professional championships.
Car and Cycle
“Perkolili”: Good motor-racing tracks are
rare. Perth is opening one on March 26.
Some 3000 tons of limestone have been used
for the foundations, and the mile track is
oblong, with four corners, two of which are
banked with cinders. The other two for fast
cornering are each three chains wide. The
track is undulating with the idea of repro-
ducing actual road conditions, and good
driving should count a« much as speed.
* * * *
“Methuselah”: British motorists have of
late been arguing as to the originator of
the term “motor-car,” and though the
machine in its modern guise is a compara-
tive pup, no one seems to be very definite
on the subject. Some of the early names
applied to the modern juggernaut, both in
England and America, to-day make quaint
reading. Among them are “petrocycle,”
“motorfly,” “oleo-locomotive,” “volvite” and
“nonequine.” The Americans characteristically
adopted “automobile,” but that was not until
Britain had tagged the new device with the
sensible and crisp “motor-car.” The ques-
tion is who was the mute, inglorious Milton
who first, hit on. the entirely satisfactory
title?
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: One of the competitors
in the forthcoming Australian Tourist
Trophy race, which will be held on the
Bathurst circuit on March 26, will be the
Australian rider Dave Brewster, who was
one of this country’s representatives in the
last Isle of Man T. T. race, and remained
to ride, in England and Europe. Brewster
is making the trip in the hope that he may
again be selected to appear for Australia in
the Isle of Man event. Another Australian
still in England is the Victorian rider
Simcock, who is still eligible to race there
as an Australian representative if required.
# # * *
“Ball Race”: Opperman (B. 9/2/’32) will
be in Sydney until the end of March, and will
take charge of a bicycle stall at the Show-
in addition to helping Lang to open the
Bridge. After that, he intends to have a
shy at some of the existing Australian
records. The first of these is his own
Sydney to Melbourne record of 39hr. 42min.
12sec. This was made unpaced in 1929.
but Opperman proposes to try it this time
behind motor pace, Bob Finlay, of Victoria,
probably leading. The mail express takes
17 hours for the trip between the two capi-
tals. Opperman hopes to cover the 505
miles of road in 24 hours.
Miscellaneous
“Coif”: The Australian Olympic heads
are this time sending our team aw r ay tied up
with one of the tightest agreements between
amateur athletes and their controllers ever
fashioned. As far as the writer knows no
other country cares a tinker’s dam whether
its Olympic representatives come back or
turn professional, as long as their special
job is finished. The Australian agreement
binds a signatory to return to this country
under a penalty of £2OO. After that he (or
she) is not to turn pro. for at least two
years. A similar proviso in the past led
to considerable litigious expense and gained
little. It is curious that such a notable
athletic nation as Australia should be so
hidebound in the ethics of athletics.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : One of the old-time lights
of Queensland professional running, in the
person of Billy Duffy, breasted the worsted
for the last time in Brisbane recently at 61.
In the roaring days of Charters Towers,
when the big goldfields Sheffield handicaps
drew pods from all over Australia and M.L..
Duffy was one of the slickest of them, his
particular weak-
ness being the 75
yards sprint, which
brought him in a
lot of money.
Those were the
days when the cash
prizes and the bet-
ting available with
Stepper Davis and
Silva calling the
odds was good
enough to attract
such world’s cham-
pions as Arthur
Postle and others.
“Gate” : The N.
S. Wales Rugby
League opens its
competition season
on April IC. and
with the North of
England side com-
ing over and the
inter-State games
with Queensland
will hold a full
hand. One item
worrying the
League is the
wholesale exodus of
good metropolitan
players to country
centres to act as
coaches to local
teams. Even _ be-
fore the hard times
this was difficult to
stop, and now that
so many players
are out of billets the trouble lias greatly
increased. The League has decided to set
aside a sum of £4OO to keep men in the city.
* ❖ * *
“Splash”: The international federation
controlling amateur swimming has been
prone to question records made in open-water
baths on. the ground that they are “tidal
water.” It has at last come to a definite
conclusion and has informed the Australian
Amateur Swimming Association to that
effect. In future these baths may be built
in harbor, river or sea, with the water find-
ing ingress or egress. The take-off may be
five feet from the surface of the water
instead of the two feet six inches hitherto
the maximum, as in still-water baths. The
new take-off was seen in operation at Sydney
Domain baths in the N.S.W. championships.
*,* * *
“Vocation”: After all Jim Carlton is not
the only famous athlete who lias tumbled to
the fact that there are better things than idol
worship (B. 27/l/’32). One or two I can
think of at the moment are the Ashton
brothers, who both bade fair to rival the Studd
tradition at Cambridge, and would probably
have worn England blazers had not the
call come to them as it did to their famous
forerunners. Then there was Eric Liddell,
another university star, who put up a record
at the 1924 Olympiad for the 400 metres
which is still the best on the books. Nearer
home we find Frank Gaffney, a Queens-
lander who was always on the edge of State
representation as a half-back when he played
with the Christian Brothers club. Frank
is now Brother Henry and a most efficient
controller of the sports side of St. Joseph’s
college in Sydney, where Jim Carlton passed
through his hands.
* * -!• *
“Swan” : Westralia, which has figured so
well in the King’s Cup races since the
Groper crews became regular competitors, is
leaving nothing to chance this year. The
crew, which will have two weeks’ train-
ing on the Yarra, is new to big racing,
but a lot of trouble has been taken
over coaching and training since it was
selected some time ago. It is not rated equal
to the W.A. crew which won in Melbourne
in 1925, but the critics place it above that
which took the Cup on the Nepean three
years later. If so it must be a fairly warm
combination.


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACRSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
1. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jcnow,
Missing Friends.
nro JAMES WILSON BAMFORD, form-
erly of 85 Octavia Street, St. Kilda, in
the State of Victoria, but now of parts
unknown, Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife NELLIE
BAMFORD has commenced proceedings in
the Supreme Court of Victoria for a divorce
on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards. UNLESS you enter an
Appearance in the Office of the Protlionotary
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the 21st day of April, 1902, the case
may proceed in your absence, and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. S.
POWER, of the Titles Office Building,
Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor
for Victoria. Solicitor for the Petitioner.
BULL, WALTER, Commercial Traveller,
formerly of Brighton le Sands. Informa-
tion as to his death or whereabouts is
required. He is entitled to money in the
intestate Estate of his late son Reginald
Geoffrey Bull, who died on January 2, 1931.
E. J. PAYNE, Public Trustee, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
That well-known daily newspaper, “THE
BARRIER MINER.” completed its 44th
year on February 29. It has had only
11 birthdays in 44 years, having been
born on the Lucky Day in Leap Year,
1888 Having lived both wisely and well,
it stands high in the First Newspaper
Class after 44 years. The people of
Broken Hill and the Far West of N. S.
Wales need no other daily newspaper.
The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
if Bulletin t?uiidinqs
ji 252 Georqe Street, j
See announcement page 13.
If auy illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
How does one feel after building a bridge.
This Letter asked Lawrence Ennis and
Alfred Martin one day last week. And the
bridge-builders paused for a minute and said
“Tired!” Now that the job is done, and
the excitement is over, and the payroll of
£10,090 a week has dropped to a few hun-
dreds ; now that the only clang in the yards
at Milson’s Point is that of men breaking
up old iron, and the only clatter that of an
occasional engine trying to regain its old air
of hurry and importance, and being as path-
etic in the attempt as a one-time belle cling-
ing to to her fast-vanishing beauties, the
men whose knowledge and tenacity built the
Bridge confess to being tired.
Seven years Jacob served for Rachel, and
seven years these men have served the
Bridge. They have fashioned her and coaxed
her across that great sweep of the harbor
with an infinite patience that may perhaps
be realised when it is known that the round-
headed rivets in her steel ribs and girders,
if placed end on end, would reach from here
to Melbourne. Well, the strain of that is
over. The Bridge is an accomplished fact,
and there, in the shabby, restricted tenement
liouse that has served as the head office, these
direct-eyed men from the Midlands ana
North of England, keen on their job, with
not a polished walnut panelled room among
them, are glad, yet sorry, because it means
leaving Australia. Oh, yes, they like us.
They like the way we live and the way we
play, and the courage and the cheeriness of
our working men. But the job is done, and
the popular Lawrence Ennis couple are prac-
tically all packed up to return to. England
by the Strathnaver in a month s time. Mr.
Martin, the deputy-director, will be here for
another six months.
The parapet of the footway is about 4ft.
Sin. high, so that a medium-sized woman is
just tall enough to get a view across its top.
This view stretches away out to the Blue
Mountains, on the river side, if the air is
clear, and down to the Heads, on the ocean
side. Sprawling headlands and curving, bays
group themselves below in a close intimacy
only to be sensed from great height; femes
cut a foam-laced jade swathe in the waters ;
tugs look like toy craft, and the. men on
them so many marionettes. Even liners lose
their impressiveness when viewed from that
terrace in the air. From the topmost span
of the arch you can see the Pacific beyond
the Heads, and ships passing like low-flying
birds along the horizon. The width from
parapet to parapet has to be seen from the
footways to be believed. There is a
footway on either side, and in between
two lines of tramways, a roadway for
carts and cars, and beyond the tramlines
electric tramways. But he who walks
will see the view; only a flash of blue, a
glitter of wave will be the reward of the
tram- and train-rider, and the man m a
car will have to stand to see anything. And
over them all the lacework of the arch will
throw a delicate pattern. High against the
light these massy steel bands stand in frail
filigree. So might a Cyclops adorn his palace
for the delight of his young.
Hyde Park is now beautified by the Apollo
Fountain —the gift of The Bulletin’s old
chief Archibald to the city of Sydney. Bertie
Kelly, on behalf of the Archibald trustees,
handed it over last Monday, and Mayor Sam
Walder accepted it on behalf of his citizens,
hundreds of whom decked the sward and
the chairs around the immense basin. Apollo
and his horses, Diana and many dolphins
disport themselves among the spraying jets and
the rainbow mists of water which presently,
the fountain being unlocked, gushed forth
to the prolonged oh! of admiration. Pro-
fessor Waterhouse, who, appropriately
enough, has been an accessory from the
time the fountain was projected to its
achievement, was one of the speakers.
Against the brown walls and polished brown
floors of the Macleod Gallery is an intensely
interesting history of the progress of Aus-
tralian Art from the early days of Conder
and Tom Roberts to the brilliant boys and
girls of to-day. Probably only The Bulle-
tin could have got together such a show’.
The long gallery holds no fewer than
300 pictures, vibrant with color —turbu-
lent color splashed on in, the impressionistic
manner of the Meldrum school; color applied
with the meticulous care, the aristocratic
restraint, of Tom Roberts, as in his tiny
panel of Circular Quay; the gleaming whites
and blues (those hard colors to paint) of
Streeton; the radiant sky and tree and cloud
of Heysen. Here are Longstaff’s “Breaking
the News,” the first scholarship prize-winner
in Australia; B. E. Minns’s abo. heads and
summer waters; the rustling light and shade
of Fred Leist; the contemplative expectancy
of Will Ashton; the genius of Norman Lind-
say. An interesting exhibit is a water-color
portrait of “Hop,” by Julian Ashton, done
when they were both in that lightest age of
all, according to the Chinese philosopher,
the fifties. Fans by Conder and Florence
Blake hang side by side; so do the serenity
of Syd Ure Smith’s etchings and pencil
sketches of Lambert’s. Vida Lahey and
Dora Jarrett; John D. Moore and Dora
Wilson; Bernard Hall and Mclnnes-
these are among the established great and the
arriving-great whose works are shown.
Hilder, who is to Australian art what Chopin
is to music, breathes the poetry of color;
Frank Maliony, that great lover and painter of
horses, is seen at liis best. In short, the
first show of the Macleod Gallery is wliat
you would expect when the supervisor is
one who spent his life guarding and garner-
ing the treasures of the National Gallery.
The formal opening takes place next Tuesday
afternoon, the 22nd.
The former Sydney girl Pat Richards,
now Countess of Jersey, married into a
family which has had its share of romance.
When Lord Westmorland in the long ago
asked for the hand of banker Robert Child’s
handsome daughter Dad said “No.” Appar-
ently he thought no more about it, so when
the peer at a subsequent dinner suddenly
asked: “Wliat would you do if you were in
love with a girl and her father refused his
consent?” Child carelessly answered, “Why,
run away with her, to be sure.” The advice
was promptly taken. But the banker didn t
really forgive the elopement till he made
his last will and left his daughter’s daughter,
Lady Sarah Fane, his huge fortune. She
married the Earl of Jersey in 1804.
The delight of owning a book beautifully
printed, on paper that is satisfying to the
touch, is at last appealing to buyers of Aus-
tralian works. One of the men in our
midst who has done much to develop the
beauty of the printed word is E. H. Shea,
head teacher of printing at the Technical
School. He is so engrossed in his work that
week-ends and off-hours he spends at his
little Sunnybrook Press turning out hand-
printed work. It is he who is responsible
for the printing in “Trio,” the book of verse
to which Ken Slessor, Colin Simpson and
Harley Matthews have contributed. Fhis
is a de luxe affair of limited copies that will
appeal only to the unlimited purse.
This is the young Countess of Jersey, who
is making her first appearance in the in-
terests of charity at the reception at Burde-
kin House in
aid of the
Royal Prince
Alfred. This
will be Satur-
da y night’s
great attrac-
tion for Syd-
ney’s society
and near-so-
ciety young
things, as the
cards haA r e
gone out in
the names of
10 daughters
of the city’s
best- knowm
families. One
wonders if the
young Earl
will display
anything like
the equanimity
of the Prince
of Wales when his every movement is fol-
lowed by a battery of eyes, no matter how
discreetly veiled. The tickets for this flutter
are almost sold out. Monte Luke made the
picture.
Howard Oarr has written some haunting
Oriental airs to accompany the Independents’
“Circle of Chalk.” This is a Chinese play
of the old Empire days; and the costumes
of the poet-prince hero and the mandarins
promise to be accurate as well as very
colorful, for China’s Consul-General Chen is
interested and has promised to lend a set
of costumes —one of great richness, in
Imperial yellow embroidered in the blue of
old Pekin. The play was written by a
German poet, Klabund, and the imagery of
the lines lends itself to the musical com-
mentary.
Sydney is the poorer in that these last few
months death has robbed her of two young
men of genius: Frank Weitzel and J. A. R.
McKellar. The first was an artist of mod-
ernism. He was responsible for one of the
most unusual rooms in the Burdekin House
exhibition. About six months ago he went
to England to w r iden his horizon, was loaned
•a cottage in the country, scratched his hand
on a thorn and was shortly dead of tetanus.
J. A. R. McKellar was a poet, one of the
new voices, and his lately-published book of
verse had won the attention of many readers.
Queenslander Vida Lahey has turned the
Grosvenor Galleries into such a blaze ot
color that you’d think you were walking
down a Brisbane-street lined with summer
gardens. Cannas unfurl orange and gold
banners; the jacarandas in front of Parlia-
ment House flutter a wealth of petals of an
almost eye-splitting blueness. There are pink
roses in a translucent green jar that should
have Adolf Friml to set them to music. This
northern girl brings all the color of the
tropic North to her canvas. She and sculp-
tor Daphne Mayo are great chums and
spend long holidays yachting and camping
around Stradbroke Island.
Sydney has still another club. It’s the
Warwick, and its home is in the tall old
house in Macquarie-street that used to
be the consulting-rooms of eye-doctor
Corbin. The house is suited to its new
venture. There’s a big room with folding
doors that takes up practically all the ground
floor (it runs from the front verandah out
to a little balcony overlooking a courtyard
at the back), and there’s some nice mahogany
woodwork about the hall and staircase. The
hostesses of the Warwick, which will be run
on the lines of London clubs, are Mrs.
Philip Robertson and Mrs. Gilman Storey.
At the opening the three floors were thronged
with smart women and their escorts, and the
amethystine decorations proved a splendid
background for frocks and complexions.
In a month’s time Mrs, Lawrence Ennis
will look her last —for some years, at any
rate—on the Bridge, which has been the
enthralling subject in the life of herself and
her husband
since 1924.
Mr. Ennis has
been Director
of Construc-
tion for Dor-
man, Long on
this impressive
piece of work,
and naturally
every day
there have
been enough
blue prints
about his
study to paper
the Ennis flat
in the Astor.
Nine-tenths of
the calls on
their telephone
have concerned
the Bridge, in-
numerable visi-
tors have been
connected with it, and always the absorbing
topic of conversation has been the Bridge.
Mrs. Ennis, too, used to pay many a visit
to the yards at Milson’s Point, and even
managed to make a little garden there in
one secluded corner. In addition the lady
has associated herself very closely with many
of the city’s social and charitable move-
ments, and she leaves behind her a host of
friends, whose thoughts and letters will
bridge the distance between here and Eng-
land, Peru, Borneo or Ispahan—wherever
the next job calls her husband.
Even as the hart panteth after the foun-
tain, so have the gossip-writers of the city
panted for the gaieties that were not.
Everybody has been laying off entertaining
till the Bridge opening; and on next Satur-
day night, the 19th, there won’t be a square
inch of dancing floor in the city unoccupied.
From the minute the date was fixed, charity
organisers swooped on the city’s ballrooms
like a swarm of locusts on the green tree.
The Ludmayor’s Ball, on Friday night, will
be a glittering affair, to which Church and
State and the butterflies in between and
round about will rally. The Mayor’s lady,
Mrs. Sam Walder, has no end of a frock for
this function, and for the day and evening
parties of the week’s pleasurings. For
Thursday night Oswald Cheeke’s dance at
Burdekin House is set as a bright star.
Oswald is the only bachelor hosting a one-
man show in the gay week. His guests will
be the first to use the dance floor laid down
in the garden near the Judas-tree. There
will be about 80 guests, many of them new
arrivals from England, among them Joan
Wilkinson and the Honorable Roland Kit-
sons.
Panel pictures and not so high prices are
the features of the Royal Art Society’s
show at the Australian Fine Arts Gallery
in Burlington House. This was unlocked
to the public on a hot, storm-laden after-
noon last week by Mayor Sam Walder, while
those veterans of the society Syd Long,
Lister Lister and Alf Coffey stood by, their
work side by side on the walls. There was
quite a little crowd at this show. D. H.
Souter was there squiring a daughter in
pink; and a wide-brimmed exotic straw hat
worn by Mrs. A. B. Coleman won commen-
dation. And this Letter came upon Mrs.
Bertie Kelly standing before one of Syd
Long’s bits of sheer beauty, looking band-
some and assuming a placidity and a philo-
sophy of middle age which her humorous
and sparkling eyes and her vital personality
denied. She wore black, on the moulded
lines, with just enough white on it to be
smart and not that inch more that looks
suburban. Her hat was a closely-fitting
foldcd-back affair with a flash of white. She
looked so attractive, it didn’t seem right that
she should have enough brains to write an
Ode to Italy in Italian. But she has done
it, and is going to read it to the sons and
daughters of Italy at a lunch at which
she will be the honored guest.
Mrs. Don Taylor, of Kirribilli, went off
by the Strathnaver to Colombo. When she
gets as far as that she will turn and come,
home again, for the voyage is by way of a
rest-up and a part-way escort to sister Mrs.
Marquis, who is returning with her two small
boys after a visit to their Australian grand-
parents. Mrs. Marquis’s husband, due now
for furlough (the Marquises home is in India),
will pick up the boat, and then the family
will go on to England, where the youngsters
will renew acquaintance with their English
grandparents.
The rooms of the Council of Jewish
Women were like the tents of Israel last
week when the Council opened the second
conference of its successful existence. Not
since 1929 have the representative women of
Jewry foregathered to discuss their problems
and objectives, which concern such intimate
things as finding work for their own un-
employed and such far-flung institutions as
the Zionist organisations and the National
Home in Palestine.
The genius of the National Council is, of
course, Dr. Fanny Reading. She lias put
into the work great powers of organising,
first as president and now as a leader work-
ing to bring about the co-operation of every
Jewish woman in the Commonwealth. She
lias, seen the interests of the society grow-
ing till at this conference 20 sections are
represented in place of the four sections of
the 1929 conclave. From every State in
the Commonwealth, and even from Maori-
land, these quick-brained, soft-eyed delegates
come, and ex-Speaker Danny Levy, who
opened the conference, must have felt proud
of the women of his race who are shaping
so well up to the needs of their times. The
Mayor and his lady breathed compliments
over the opening.
A recent woman visitor to Moree writes:
I hope the par. about nude sunbathing at Moree
doesn’t cause a rush of sightseers to the North-West,
for I’m afraid they would be sorely disappointed.
Owing to the smallness of the basins at the Moree
baths there is very little room for sun-bathing; and
although the men wear only trunks when stewing
in the warm mineral waters in their basin, the
ladies are much too bashful to show their unclad
curves to the world. All the cubicles are provided
with doors in the feminine section, and it is a
long time since a lady was daring enough to reveal
her natural charms to her Sister bathers.
Queensland’s quantum:—
Sor John Goodwin unveiled the memorial tablets
to the Australian Army Medical Corps and the
Australian Army Nursing Service in the room under
the Anzac Memorial. The Premier and Mrs. Moore,
the Mayor and Mayoress, Lady Beatrice Moreton,
Mr. and Mrs. W. Young, Brigadier-General F. M.
Ralph, Commander Mutton, Lieut.-Colonel F. S.
Meyers and Colonel Lorenzo were amongst those
present.
Opening with a matinee, “The First Mrs. Frazer”
drew two big houses to His Majesty’s; the witty
dialogue was a welcome item in these depressed days.
Despite the heat at Ascot races, there were hints
of autumn frocking sandwiched in between dainty
summer gowns. Mrs. R. J. Spence chose brown
crgpe de Chine with a brown hat; Mrs. B. Ilewson
was in Isabella-grape tinted silk with a white silk
blouse and natural tinted straw. The Sinclair Smiths,
Cecil Palmers, Mesdames Spencer Browne, A. H.
Whitingham, Ella O’Shea, Dr. Morgan Lane and C.
Dearden were among the crowd on the lawn.
Marilyn Erskine, daughter of the V. Galhveys
and grand-daughter of the late knight Michael Henry
Gallwey, announces her engagement to Ernest
Saunders, Annerley.
William Bustard, a native of Yorkshire, who has
been 10 years in Brisbane and is president of the
Queensland Art Society, is off to Philadelphia. Our
late Governor, Sir Matthew Nathan, bought several
of his paintings. He served in Italy during the war.
In her 93rd year, Lavinia Brelsford, who never
altered her old-world style of dress, died last week.
She came from Derbyshire to these parts with her
husband nearly 70 years ago. She left two: sons,
two daughters, 16 grandchildren and 8 great-grand-
children.
The Mayoress declared 13-year-old Gordon James
Allan the winner of the Masonic bursary for 1932.
Mrs. (Sreene was in pale blue with a pink evening
shawl. The W. B. Beestons received the guests,
Mrs. Beeston in lido blue. This bursary fund was
established during the war for Mason members of
the A.1.F.; sons and daughters of men who served
are eligible. Mrs. J. Smales arranged the music;
Mildred Bell and Broadland Rorke were amongst
the contributors, and Daphne Sapsford danced a
solo.
Frangipanni decked St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, for
the wedding of Alfred Morton and Eleanor Pechey,
daughter of Mrs. Richard Gailey, Ascot. The bride,
who was given away by her stepfather, was in
white rose-point lace over satin, with Venetian
applique veil. Kathleen McCullough ’maided in pale
ninon patterned in roses. Burnays, Ascot, saw the
feasting, and the ’moon rises in Sydney.


Australia's Best
Rameno for Sport and Ordinary Wear.
Rameno Cardigans, Pullovers, Socks and Golf Stock-
ings are the exclusive production of the Merino
Woollen Mills Pty., Ltd. They wear long because
they fit well. There is no drag and, consequently, no
strain on any one part.
Rameno garments, in color and design, are
modelled on the latest English and Continental
fashions in men’s knit-wear. They are guaranteed all-
wool only the finest and best quality Australian w-001.
ZM£WJVO-JHWfr
COST NO MORE
but are
MUCH BETTER.
CARDIGANS,
PULLOVERS,
SOCKS and
Golf Stockings
Stocked by
all leading
Mercers.
1169
m
m
eMr JL
lmusFit'
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
So far as the weather was concerned
Saturday was all that could be desired as a
race day, but the luck of the V.A.I.C. was
out and accidents occurred that necessitated
the destruction of three fine horses. -Though
the weather was warmish, woollen frocks,
mostly green, were in favor. In the com-
mittee ladies’ box Marjorie Clarke in a
woollen jersey of lime-green color and a hit
hat of the same shade, and Eleanor M ilb?>
i„ the reseda tint of the verdant hue, witn
matching hat that had a touch of black, unade
a splash of color among the more subdued
dresses worn by other occupiers. Mrs. Mem
(’haft'cy, whose companions were Mrs. n, a.
F Wiikinson and her sister Mrs. F. Murray,
was all in black. Mrs. Rogers Thomson
wore a navy blue ensemble and her daughter
Kathleen was smart in pale green with a
champagne-colored hat. Mrs. Fleming Dun-
stan cheered a navy blue and white spotted
silk frock with a berry-red hat. Her daugh-
ter Valmai was also summery in sky-blue
flowered georgette and white straw hat. Mrs.
James Purves, who wore a sports suit in
navy and fawn and blending hat, was with
her sister, Florrie Green, whose wool jersey
was trimmed with astrakhan. Mrs. A. V.
Hiskens brightened her black gown and hat
with a touch of biscuit color. Mr. and Mrs.
A. I*. Burke, revisiting Melbourne after some
years of residence in England, were tliere.
Other patrons included the Richard Turn-
bulls, the Clive Leonards. Mrs. M. J. Canny
and Mr. and Mrs. R. de B. Ker, of Banana-
land. Delphiniums and red zinnias garnished
the tea-tables in the committee-room.
Tiger-lilies, gladioli and African mari-
golds in tremendous quantities enhanced the
black and orange setting of the Wattle tea-
rooms when the P.L.C. Old Collegians
Association had a party to welcome Mrs.
James Dyer, who is an ex-student of the col-
lege and a past president of the association.
Mrs. Dyer was in apricot-pink georgette:
with wee frills outlining the skirt seams , a
bouquet of roses, which was handed to her,
blended nicely. The president Mrs. E. b.
Richards, whose green gown featured pin
tucks, presented the guest of honor with
the gold badge of the association. boated
about the official table were many former
presidents of the association. Fiddler Con-
stance Ziebell, pianist Gladys Smith and
contralto Isabel Biddell provided music,
which was added to by an operatic number
sung by Eda Bennie.
Wearing a reseda-green frock topped by
a black felt hat, Gladys Brunton, who
with her mother, Mrs. Stuart Brunton,
is to visit England shortly, was fare-
welled at the Alexandra Club by co-
workers of the Women’s Hospital and the
Armadale-Malvern auxiliary of the institu-
tion. Mrs. George Langridge, vice-president
of the auxiliary, was hostess. The president
of the hospital, Mrs. James Alston, came
along to present to Miss Brunton an ela-
borately-fitted handbag in acknowledgment
of her ever-willing help. Mrs. A. J. Phillips,
a daughter of Mrs. Langridge, assisted her
mother in doing the honors. Mrs. Brunton,
Madge Bennett, lion. sec. of the auxiliary,
Mrs. Fred Bennett and Miss M. E. Mc-
Donald, matron of the Women’s Hospital,
were tliere.
The lady in the fancy costume is Mrs.
Van Scliiflgaarde, known professionally as
Madame Nina Kamper, a Russian dancer,
who has been
in Melbourne
for the last
two years.
She received
he r training
as a dancer in
Moscow and
then with her
sister set out
for a tour of
the Orient.
While in India
she studied
Hindoo dances
and in Singa-
po r e added
Burmese frills
to her reper-
toire. At Cal-
cutta she
married Mr.
Van Sbhifl-
gaarde; the
couple are now
settled on a poultry farm a few miles from
the city. Mrs. Schiflgaarde was the star
turn at the garden party for the Berry-
street Foundling Home, held at the W.
Mortills’ home at Hawthorn.
On arrival from the Apple Isle, Sir Francis
Wylie’s wife was carried off for luncheon
at the Lyceum ,Club, where Mrs. E. F. Her-
ring had assembled some friends. On their
way to the Sydney express the visitors halted
at Menzies’ to take tea, at Mrs. 0. Little-
john’s invitation, with the Vic. Rhodes
scholars and their wives.
Una Fitts, back in Melbourne after four
years of travel, was welcomed at a special
tea-brew put on at the Lyceum Club by Mrs.
Frank Newell. Miss Fitts was social secre-
tary to the wife of the American Ambassa-
dor in Madrid, and was in Spain during the
revolution.
On Thursday night Lud Mayor Smith and
Mrs. Dyer were guests of the Wattle League.
A guard of honor of eight maidens of the
Junior W.L. formed with gilded wands deco-
rated with our national flower an arch for
the guests to pass under, and wattle decked
the rooms. There was a programme of
music and recitations by Australian com-
posers and authors. A posy of wattle and
gum-nuts arranged in a bit of bark-covered
log was handed to Mrs. Dyer.
The president, Miss Hilda Langley, and
directors of the Y.W.C.A. had a billy-boiling
at headquarters to greet Elsie Reed, the
new general secretary. Archdeacon Hancock,
representing Archbishop Head, and Mrs L
H. Moss, of the N.0.W., voiced good wishes.
Elizabeth .Campbell arranged a musical pro-
gramme. Dr. Georgina Sweet and Mrs.
Essington Lewis were there.
Dorothy, the tall, slim and pretty elder
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. .T. A. Bisset, ot
Armadale, kept a tryst at Toorak kirk in
clinging draperies of ivory satin and clouds
of tulle depending from a wreath of daisies.
Her partner in the ceremony was Ken,
second son of the W. M. Shields, of Toorak.
In attendance on the leading lady were her
sister Marjorie, who wore peach-pink organ-
die muslin, and Barbara Shields and Flor-
ence Ellis, who were in leaf-green gowns.
City-organist McKie provided a musical pro-
gramme in the church, and there was a party
afterwards at No. 9.
A feast at the Oriental followed the wed-
ding of Shirley, daughter of the .Tames Find-
lays, of Kyabram, and Clarence, son of T.
H. Flere, of Ivew. Pale-pink satin and a
tulle veil of the same tint formed the bridal
array. The attendant ’maid sported a blue
organdie muslin frock and a wreath of
autumn blossoms.
Scotch College chapel saw the knot-tying
of Clarice, daughter of Mrs. W. J. Hollins,
of Dalyston, and Jack, second son of J. S.
Burnet, of Korumburra. Wearing taffeta
frocks of peach pink and pale green respec-
tively, two ’maids stood by a bride whose
stiff white silk gown followed puffed and
flared lines.
The union of Dr. Ewen Downie and
Muriel, daughter of Mrs. J. S. Cumming, of
Armadale, should prove an ideal partner-
shi p. Tli e
pretty bride,
here pictured
by Dickinson
Montcath, is a
qualified nurse,
a trainee of
the Alfred
Hospital,
where she was
very popular.
Dr. Downie is
a son of Dr.
and Mrs. T.
Taylor Dow-
nie, of Queen’s-
roa d, Me 1-
bourne. Cream
satin and a
veil and Court
train of old
Limerick were
worn by the
bride, who
carried a ' , .
bouquet of frangipanm. I lie attendant
’maids were her sister Margaret and trie
bridegroom’s sister Janet, who sported apri-
cot-tinted chiffon with brown velvet sashes
and matching hats. Two ydung cousins,
Elizabeth and Josephine Lamb, were train-
bearers. Their Greenaway frocks were on
the same color scheme as the bridesmaids .
The ceremony was at Scots Church, the
leading lady’s grand-uncle, the Rev. David
Miller tying the knot, aided by the Rev.
Dr. Borland. There was a tea party at the
Windsor afterwards.
Dr. Dorothy Staley, robed in white georg-
ette exchanged marriage vows with the Rev.
Harlan Delbridge, son of the Rev Frederick
Delbridge and Mrs. Delbridge, of .Chelten-
ham The newly-weds intend to set up house
at New Norfolk, in Tassy. Dr. Staley tor
the last two years has been resident officer
at the Devon Hospital, Latrobe, in the Apple
Isle. She is a daughter of Mrs. R. E. Staley,
of Swan Hill.
Joyce, daughter of the Archibald John-
sons, of St. Kilda-road, wore satin of the
tint between cream and ivory, with the
usual tulle addition, when she was linked to
Alan, son of Mr. and Mrs. F. Brockhoff, of
Queen’s-road. Mrs. C. Fitclictt, her sister,
was matron of honor, and there were three
’maids, the quartette wearing amber-colored
organdie muslin frocks and hats.
The engagement is announced of Basil,
only son of the Fritz Harts, and Katlilene,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. C. F. Sibthorpe,
of Mentone. ,
In the audience at Raymond Lambert s
recital were Mrs. James Dyer, whose powder-
blue gown was topped by a wrap of cham-
pagne and persimmon-colored chiffon velvet.
Ivy Ball handed the lady a posy in acknow-
ledgment of her interest. Others m the
throng were Mr. and Mrs. Rene \ ancier-
kelen, the W. Mortilis, Mr. and Mrs. Philip
Glass Mary Campbell, Thomas Brentnall
and Dr. Maurice MacGillicuddy and his
daughter Mauricette.
There is a saddening lack of aesthetic
impulse amongst Australian women. In
London all ladies of fashion are adepts m
self-portraiture. Eyelashes are painted blue
and finger- and toe-nails blue, orange or
black and red, according to the prevailing
hue of the costume worn. A green face
powder adds to the beauty of the ensemble.
Even w r hen compared with their sisters of
Borneo our women show an indifference to
aesthetics. The Dyak maiden dons tight
brass rings round the leg and waist at an
early age and never removes them. In con-
sequence her figure acquires features which
are regarded by her menfolk as a decided im-
provement on nature. The Milanau girls of
the Philippines clamp boards on their heads,
which give the forehead an angle of 45
degrees from the perpendicular and elevate
the skull. This custom is generally consid-
ered to have given birth to the wmrd high-
brow, a highbrow being a person able to
look intellectual without going to the bother
of becoming intelligent. Our women don’t
spend as much time in beauty parlors as
women overseas, according to a Bond-street
beauty specialist who has been visiting Mel-
bourne. That is the worst of being pro-
vincial.
A feminine kickshaw that is likely to
become very popular for evening wear is a
necklet of small artificial flowers of the exact
tint of the wearer’s gown. These are sup-
posed to have their origin in the massive
garlands with which the Hawaiian natives
deck themselves and visitors, and came into
some prominence during the summer, when
ropes of fresh flowers were worn by a few
brides and their attendant maids. A few
girls also brightened up evening frocks in
the same way. The artificial necklace is
much more convenient, and, of course, much
slenderer. They can be chosen to chime
with any dress. At a recent mannequin
parade a very plainly-cut gown of the
material known as angel’s skin —the faint-
est of pinks —was made to look extremely
effective by the addition of a floral necklace
of the same elusive tone.
Mrs. Hogan’s cabin in the Mooltan was a
bower of beautiful flowers, and there were
many parting gifts. A present from the
Labor Women’s Organising Committee avrs
a tortoiseshell mounted manicure set, which
was handed over by Jean Daley, president of
the body. Mr. Hogan joined the Mooltan at
Adelaide.
The Speck speaking :
Sir Francis Wylie, during his visit to the Speck,
gave Hutchins School the pleasant reminder that of
the 20 Tas. Rhodes scholars 15 have been old
Hutchins boys. The Wylies were entertained by
the Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor of the Uni. at
an at-home at the Imperial, where scholastic folk
were well represented.
There was a shivoo on the Mooltan in aid of
combined local charities. Over 1000 tickets were
sold, but the arrangements were so good that there
was no crush —plenty of dancing space and any
number of bridge-tables and places for sitting out.
And the supper was the very best of its kind.
Alison Fraser, a clever young impersonator of
elderly parts in the Launceston Players, has gone
to take up nursing at the Prince Alfred Hospital,
Melbourne. There were several farewell parties; one
of the j oiliest was that arranged by Nance Smith
and Betty Cuff, at Beulah, the Norman Smiths’
home.
The 48th Exhibition of the Art Society of Tas.
was opened by the Lieut.-Gov., the work showing
more variety and quality than last year’s. Among
the exhibitors were Mabel Hookey, M. Oldham,
Blanche Murphy, Joseph Connor, L. Dechavieux and
his wife, J. Eld'ershaw, 11. Kelly and E. E. Unwin,
R. A. Clive’s woodcuts and bookplates were attrac-
tive, and E. M. Nicholls showed two clever charcoal
studies.
At the T.A.J.C.’s meeting at Elwick dressing
was quiet, the weather being unsettled. Mrs. Ton)
Lyons was in black crepe satin, with stonemarten
stole and big black hat. In the throng were the
James Murrays, Mrs. Eric Stopp and her sister Mrs.
Trethewie, Mra. Colin Kennedy and daughter Naomi,
the Vernon Crisps, the Norman Fergusons, Dr. and
Mrs. James Sprent, the Eric Brocks, Commodore
Holbrook, and many of the naval officers and their
wives.
Dorothy Lucy, younger daughter of the 11. C.
Spotswoods, Launceston, became Mrs. Clive Loane,
at St. Aidan’s church. The bride’s frock was of
ivory georgette painted with yellow and orange Ice-
land poppies, and picture hat of blue felt. Marion
Gibson ’maided in powder-blue suede georgette, with
brown-and-blue hat. There were only intimates and
relatives at the subsequent reception at the Virginia.
The Lieut.-Gov.’s lady, Mrs. AV. F. Stephens and
Cicely Shoobridge ran the “Ungrown-ups’ ” Ball at
the Continental in aid of the Child AVelfare Ass.
More than 300 dancers footed it to the Continental
orchestra’s music. Commodore L. H. Holbrook and
a number of officers helped to give the show a push.
Betty Giblin has been having a hectic time with
farewell parties before her departure for the Cold
Country. Hostesses who gave her send-offs included
Mrs. G. Minette Lucas, Mrs. Raymond-Barker, Mrs.
A. M. Stoyles, Mrs. J. Scott-Reid and Mrs. Stanley
Barnett, Mrs. Geoff Chapman, Mrs. C. M. Maxwell,
Wanda Piesse, Molly Eady and Helen Gray.
Betty, younger daughter of the L. A. Cuffs, Laun-
ceston, and Jack, eldest son of Senator and Mrs,
J. D. Millen, announce their engagement.
Tuneful Freda Elliott, one of -our young singing
birds, has won first place in the Alice Orff-Solscher
exhibition for women, and third in the Ormond
exhibition at the Melbourne University Conserva-
torium.
S. Aus. sails in:—•
The temptation offered by a railway return ticket
for £8 has sent hundreds to the Sydney Bridge cele-
brations. For those left behind the festivities of
Baby Week will start on April 4.
Proceeds from the coming inspection of the
Strathaird are to go to the Free Kindergarten Union.
Last week Mrs. Lavington Bonython combined a
morning tea at the Queen Adelaide Club with a
meeting to make arrangements for handling the
crowd that is anticipated.
Joan, the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Cutten, of Toorak, left by the Mooltan for England
to marry Kenyon Copperthwaite. Mrs. F. Villeneuve
Smith gave a farewell bridge and dance; she wore
a smart black moire toilette, and her daughter
Lindley was in cream taffeta. Joan Cutten chose
a white georgette with diamente belt.
“Loehinvar” will be a pre-Easter attraction offered
at the Theatre Royal by the Elder Conservatorium
pupils of Madame Delmar and Mr. Winsloe Hall.
Two dashing members of the mounted police force
with exceptionally fine voices sustain leading parts.
As the costumes date back to powder and patches,
the frocking is a big consideration.
Three charming Adelaide girls will make their
debut at private dances in Easter Week: Catherine
Sunter, Kathleen McMichael and Helen Verco. The
McMichaels are combining the debut of their
daughter with tha coming-of-age of their son Dick,
and the -party will be held at their beautiful home
at Crafers.
A conversazione, dance and bridge was arranged
at the Refectory, Adelaide University. The Wil-
liam Goodmans with the A. R. Kemps, received
the guests. Many smart frocks were worn.
Mrs. J. H. Morris gave a cheery bridge party in
the Panel-room at the Piccadilly as a farewell to
Mrs. A. Roberts, who leaves by the Strathnaver on
a trip to England with her husband. The floral
decorations were exquisite; the hostess wore a smart
frock in the new Spanish tiles shade. The widow
of Mr. Victor Cohen, who recently married
Mr. Sam Meyers, of Melbourne, is also travelling to
England by the Strathnaver, with her husband.
In connection with the flower festival to be held
in the Exhibition Building in aid of the Angori-
china Hostel, a number of queen competitions are
being run. Lady Hore-Ruthven has interested her-
self keenly in the good work.
Westralia’s wad :
After a great to-do over the rights of “The First
Mi’s. Fraser’’ a truce was signed, and the play was
produced by the Repertory Club to three crowded
houses. Maud Dingwall, in the name part, looked
far too charming to have been deserted by her
husband for a gold-digging flapper, who was handled
by Pat Hannah with quite a professional flavor.
Brian Curlewis, in a fair isle jumper knitted by
himself, had a part to suit him as Nin.ian, from
Oxford, Tom McGregor, as the much-marrying
Fraser, lapsed into Scotch when he became excited.
Josephine Temperley, as daughter-in-law Alice, made
her debut on the Repertory boards.
Mrs. Archie Burt and daughter Ursula have packed
up for their country home. Farewells were plentiful,
for Mrs. Burt has lived in town for many years.
She is a music-lover and secretaried the Iyylie Club
from its infancy. Mrs. S. J. Anderson has consented
to become her successor.
Mrs. Hearman and Mrs. Jack Craig gave a party
at the Palace for Mrs. Calder and her daughter
Madge. The hostesses were clad respectively in black
mesh laces and spinach-green patternings. Mrs.
Calder chose a magpie outfit and Madge looked nice
in blue. Among the tea-sippers were Mrs. Geoff
Maxwell, Mrs. Doy Forrest, Rachel Salmon, Mrs.
Oakley, Mrs. Prevost and Edna Noble.
Dorothy Barclay, a graduate in science and arts
from our Uni., is off on the Barrabool for the Cold
Land. Miss Barclay has been teaching maths.,
physics and chemistry at Geelong Grammar School
and has just completed a two years’ research scholar-
ship in atomic physics.
Girls with clever fingers and an eye for design
will have a chance of winning some worthwhile
prizes during Wool AVeek. Entrants will make and
wear a woollen frock of a limited cost, with which
they are permitted any accessories of millinery
and footwear to make an attractive turnout. They
may enter in any centre they prefer. The winner
of each centre parades for the title of “Miss AVest-
ralia,” who will have to be a very smart Miss,
indeed. Many country districts are offering a week’s
holiday and free railway fares for their winners—
a happy dream for the girls of the AA heatbelt and
the tall timber of the South-West.


.1
t
Wh Jr o© o w., tv
l«n&/ //y<~> o
■MI O' o e o
EVffo o oo
HR) # o © o o o bi
P& e/o o © & o„g a ».i
~9 of> 9 0 © O 0 ® 01
0 ©_/ ©O’ o © t> o ®
0 Qfo © O O O O 0 ©
o- o
o o
/ 0 0 © & © © © 0
f 0 © O © & O © ©
'0 0 © 0 0 r* /s © C
*°o\<v ■»V»^
.Vo 0 . 0
Pretty
Children
and pretty garments go well
together. “80-Peep” Print for
Children’s wear is both pretty and
practical. Children may play and
tumble in it with impunity, and
mothers need never worry, be-
cause “80-Peep” Print is made to
stand hard wear. And-never mind
the washing, because the original
charm will not disappear in soap
and water, no matter how many
times you wash it.
“80-Peep” Print is 36 inches wide,
and is obtainable in many styles,
designs and colorings, from leading
Drapers and Stores.
Produced by
the makers
of “Tricoline”
—the equal
to silk.
Lo %t°odr forChildrerisWear. oz jSc
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write :
MR. H. G. RANDELL, “The Grace Building,”
York Street, Sydney.
Carbon/
W 5
©B®
m
A costly nuisance which is paid for in waited petrol.
Have you ever considered how much more mileage you
get from a gallon of petrol when your engine is free
from carbon.
Carbo-Solve will positively remove carbon deposits.
£ 10,000,000 of resources back Alemite Corporation’s
positive guarantee that Carbo-Solve will free your engine
from carbon. Full particulars sent on request.
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. ..... 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN & GO (Pty), Ltd.
CORNELL LIMITED .
Brisbane
. . 894 Hay Street, Perth
535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-6
Marketing Our Bridge.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
DRAMATICALLY Biggar breezed into
my office and got in that friendly
bang on the back before I had time
to dodge it.
“Old chap, I’ve made my fortune! Lend
me five bob,” he said, all in one breath.
“What—again?” I demanded cynically,
knowing that cynicism is the only defence
against Biggar’s exuberance. “What’s the
goldmine this time?”
“The Bridge,” he said.
“What bridge?” I demanded, determined,
as a matter of self-defence, to take some of
the wind out of his sails.
“Not the one on which galoots like you
trump your partner’s ace and go four no
trumps on a Yarborough,” he retorted. “The
Sydney Harbor Bridge, you chump !”
“Is there a bridge?” I asked.
“Don’t be a goat,” he said. “If you’d
been a bit late coming across the harbor this
morning you'd have seen them putting the
finish on the eighth south panel.”
“They completed it, did they?” I said,
with the interest of one who is a part-owner.
“Looks as if they’ll have it done in no time
now !”
“They’re getting ahead,” he agreed.
“That’s where I drop in. It came to me
like a flash. I kept on thinking of it, night
after night: if there was going to be a
bridge there must be some money in it for
ine. Then I saw the way. A great scheme!
You’ll find it there.”
He had thrust before me a typewritten
document on which I noticed the heading
“Harbor Bridge Approaches Land Trust,” and
then .something that took my breath away as
effectively as his slap on the back had done.
“Nominal capital, £10,000,000!” I gasped.
“Just the bare ten million,” he said off-
handedly. “If you’ve got a couple of bob
we’ll go and have a drink, arid I’ll explain it.”
Biggar was one who never appeared to
see the incongruity of talking of millions
and the necessary silver for drinks in ■ one
breath ; and I must say that, in spite of his
frayed raiment, his talk whs quite impressive.
The scheme itself might have been accept-
able, too, if someone whose name was Money
had been its sponsor. It was, in effect, a
pooling of land adjacent to the Bridge
approaches for purposes of re-sale—a scheme
which would have seemed attractive enough
to property-owners, no doubt,- if Mr. Money
had stated them; the huge capital was to'
represent the shares that _ would be issued
against the pooled land. Merely as the
scheme of the shabby Biggar, liowmver, it
looked too much like a suggestion that the
property-owner should pool his land for the
purpose of providing a salary for Biggar.
whose services were modestly assessed at £2500
per annum. But Biggar saw no difficulties.
“Approached in the proper way, they’ll
rush to get in!” he declared. “All I want
is the money for preliminary expenses.
Whoever puts in for that I’m. prepared to
let in on the ground floor.”
That is an impressive phrase which cash-
less millionaires like Biggar, I have noticed,
are almost as fond of using as the other one
about “putting all the cards upon the table.”
It gives a mental picture of a magnificent
forty-storey edifice, solid and complete in
every detail, in which the most desirable
apartments are available for a mere song
to the far-sighted investor. It is probably
fortunate for myself that I have never been
in a position to accept all the ground-floor
invitations that have been extended to mo.
I didn’t regard the five shillings Biggar
extracted from me as the price of that admis-
sion. Being sure I would never see it again
I tried to forget it when I said good-bye to
Biggar, after promising that if I ran across
any people with ground-floor leanings I
would put them on to him.
But when next I met Biggar one of those
changes with -which he sometimes astonished
his acquaintances had come upon him. He
was, so to speak, clad in affluence, and in his
southerly-buster way he blew me into a
saloon bar and poured two drinks and an
amazing optimism into me.
“Great!” he said in answer to my inquiries
about how his scheme was going. “I’ve got
my preliminary capital, and we’re in a
position to go straight ahead. You must
come up and see our offices.”
It was impossible just then, other business
calling, although it was difficult. to prevent
the exuberant Biggar from carrying me with
him bodily. The meeting bad awakened my
curiosity, nevertheless ; and when I did calf
the aspect of the offices impressed me. They
were, small but pretentious, and the gold
lettering on the. door, with; “T. Carnegie
Biggar, Secretary' and' Manager,” under-
neath, was all .that gold lettering should
be. The’“Carnegie” was new to me; but
it called up million-dollar memories.
.When I entered without knocking, as the
door invited, me to, I noticed that a boy in
an enormous white collar was bent indus-
triously over a desk in the corner, and, as
I waited for him to notice me, I heard
Biggar’s voice from the inner room.
“I assure you, Madam, that you cripnot do
better than accept your trustees’ advice and
agree to putting the land into the Trust. They
are business men who realise the advantage
Why, Great Scott,. Mary, it’s Hamer !”
When I saw Mrs. Biggar. smiling at me
as the , pair came out of the inner office, I
realised that the words I had heard bad
been prompted, as a bit of artistic window-
dressing, by the sound of the opening door. I
noticed, too, that the boy with the, big collar
was Tom Biggar, junior, who, having grinned
at.me in a friendly fashion when he recog-
nised me, relaxed tq. the job of drawing horses;
on the blotting-pad—his industry having been
another bit of window-dressing evidently.
“Well, what do you think of us ?”, said Biggar
proudly,' showing me into’liis well-furnished
sanctum, and pushing me into one of- the
saddle-back ; chairs. “She’s pretty, good, eh?”
“Has , quite the ten-million-pound look,”
I commented. .
“That sounds an enormous amount, doesn’t
it?” said Mrs. Biggar,’ it seemed to me a
trifle anxiously. “And that salary of Tom’s,
too ! I often,, tbink it would be better if he
got a position with a regular salary;—even
four pounds a week, if it was certain.”
Biggar indulged in one.of his huge laughs
as he patted her on the shoulder.
“Don’t worry, sweetheart!” he said. “You
run along arid have lunch, and get home to
the kiddies. And tell that grocer I’ll come down
to-night and see him.about liis account.”
“Things not quite so good?” I queried as
the door closed on Mrs. Biggar, after she
had said good-bye.
“Matter of time. These property-owners
arc fair cows to deal with. They won’t see
wliat’s good for them; but all the same-
well. Mr. Hamer, you will never regret
your decision to come in. The proposition
means a hundred per cent, improvement or
more in the value of your land. Suppose
wo go down to the solicitor’s now?”
The , sudden change in nis conversation
would have surprised me if I had riot heard
the door open again and. an excharige of
words between .young Tom, who had declared
his father to be engaged offi important busi-
ness, and a new arrival. I found myself being
introduced ..tp a middle-aged man whose face
had a suspicious look.
“Do you mind waiting for a quarter of 1
an hour?” said Toni. *‘lf I m not back then,
will you come to-morrow? We’re just going
out to sign some documents —it may take
a little time.”
The “documents,” needless to say, came
from bottles in a pub a couple of blocks
away—Tom remarked that old Heather,
grown tired of waiting, might also feel
thirsty, and a near hostelry would, there-
fore, have dangers —and I learnt, both going
there and (in a double sense) on the spot,
the position of affairs.
“All the old idiot would come up was a
hundred quid and he calls in every day to
see how things are going on, as if it was a
million. I let him in on the ground floor —
a thousand shares for his hundred, and the
cow won’t come any more cash. A hundred
quid is a rottenly small amount, considering
the work it’s got to do!”
I looked at his prosperous raiment but
did not mention that.
“They charge you a pretty stiff rent, I
expect, in that building,” I said.
“Yes ; and the first week’s had to be paid.
I’ll have to' find someone else to put up a
little cash.”
“Let him in on the ground floor, too?” I
could not help asking.
“Yes, absolutely!” he sgid seriously.
After a few drinks we played dominoes,
isiggar having, for the benefit of Heather,
rung up the office to say that ;he: had been
called to a conference of interested land-
owners; and somehow we were still play-
ing dominoes when the grinning face of
young Tom, who evidently knew where to
come, looked in, and the youngster announced
he had closed the office.'
After that, although Biggar persisted in
a boisterous optimism aborit his scheme, I
was not surprised Avhen, dropping in to see
him a few weeks later, I found the office.empty
and a workman scraping the gold lettering of
the Harbor Bridge Approaches Land Trust
from the glass panel of the door. A man who
looked ori, and who appeared to be the care-
taker, seemed eager to make nasty remarks,
“Where’s Mr. Biggar gone?’? lie'repeated
nastily. “Trie agents would like .to know!
People who put time-payment furniture into
offices and then fade out, not paying any-
one! Are you another of the blokes he’s
taken down? There was that Mr. Heather
calling in for a. week after he’d disappeared !’’
I was still smiling over the caretaker’s
grievances—in which a black eye had some-
how got entangled—when I found myself,
whirled abruptly into a hotel, and knew it
was Biggar himself who was with me.
“The Approaches Land Trust?” he echoed
after me. “Oh, that’s up the spout! I
found out I was on the -wrong lay.”
“Then you’ve given up the idea of making
money out of the bridge?”
“What ?” he roared. “Not me ! What’s the
use of us building a bridge if I don’t make
money out of it ? I’ve got an option oVerit.” .
■ Used, as lam to Biggar and his statements,
this one made me gulp over my whisky. .
“Advertising,” he explained., “I did have
an idea, seeing how hard up the Govern-
ment is for cash, of getting,up a company
to take over the bridge and make it pay; but
then I got this one. It’sbetter.; Do yoii know
how much space there is for advertising on
.the bridge?. I’ve.got the figures-here!” ; ,
He plunged his hand• into his, pocket to
produce the. inevitable papers—l don’t think:
I have ever met Biggar when, lie did not
have-a prospectus of some sort in his clothes.
“You; don’t mean to say'you’ve been given
an option over the bridge for advertising?”
I demanded.
“Well, I haven’t exactly got the option
yet; but I’m after ft, and live got backing.
-Managed, to. get some politicians interested;
why, Blankidash, M.L.C., is my chairman
-of directors! . They* don’t get their shares
■unless the thing comes off.”
•‘lt’s monstrous; you’ll never get it,” I
commented.
“Why not? Doesn’t the Government want
money to help pay for the dashed thing?
Well, we’ll get it for them. Artistic adver-
tising, of course. Why, it’ll look grand at
night, with all the electric signs up. ‘That
Trip to Europe’ at the apex, with a ship
in colored lights sailing over a green sea,
and underneath TO to 1’ with a fag, red
light at the end. The ‘8.0.’ are looking out
towards Botany, and ‘.CoiTitup for Colds’
gleaming out where it can be seen by all
the couples sitting on the damp grass in
the harborside parks. The whole thing will
be a mass of light—it’ll look fine!”
“I’m damned if it will,” I said.
For about the first time in our acquaint-
ance something like a quarrel took place
between us, Tom having a hot resentment
at my aesthetic objections to his scheme.
. “But, damn it, we won’t quarrel!” he said.
“Let’s have another drink. Only I said I
was going to make money out of the bridge,
and, by Christopher, I will!”
I did not run across Biggar for some time;
but I caught sight of him moving busily
about once or twice in cars, and this evi-
dence of affluence and activity made me curi-
ous. It would be a scandal, of course, if
the bridge was leased for advertising, such
a scandal as I could not imagine being per-
mitted ; yet.... I was quite glad to meet
Mrs. Biggar, looking very happy and pros-
perous, one day.
“Yes, Tom’s very busy,” she told me.
“He’s trying to get the whole thing fixed
up, but he has to see so many people about
it! You’d think that they’d be glad to help
• a man who works so hard. I can’t see why
they don’t let him have the land without
all this trouble.”
“The land!” I exclaimed blankly. “I
thought it was the bridge he wanted—for
advertising.”
“Oh, that fell through. I thought you
knew. Tom’s idea is to run a monster
fair on the land still vacant near the bridge.
All sorts of side-shows; it would astonish
you to see the list he has. If it comes off
it’ll be all his work; yet he’s going to give
half the,;profits to the hospitals!”
» “He’s got backing?” I suggested.
“Ob, yes! The side-showmen —what a
queer lot they are, Mr. Hamer! —are behind
him ; arid so is one of the men who was in
the advertising scheme. The others seem
to have lost faith. I don’t see why they
should lose faith in Tom. He always means
well —you know that, of course, as his
friend.”
I was,forced to a smile.
“As long as he has your faith, Mrs. Big-
gar” "
“He will always have that,” she said
firmly, ’ There was something heartwarming
about'the.loyalty between these two.
The ' excitement of the Bridge opening
celebrations had fallen upon the city; and
the'day itself was within sight when——
“What about a bridge souvenir, Mister?
Why, it’s you!”
, It was Biggar—again a frayed Biggar,
arid now with a card of cheap souvenir
badges in his hand in a case evidently con-
taining more alongside him. And young
Tom, similarly equipped, was with him, grin-
ning a greeting.
“You’ll have a drink?” I asked.
'' “My oath ! Young Tom can slip in and
have a softee over the road.”
“How’s the game?” I asked him as we
took our glasses.
“Well, you see what it is! I tried a
monster fair scheme, but it fell through. A
man has to do something, though, and I
struck the idea of souvenir badges. They’re
going like hot cakes ; and the wife’s delighted
—she says there’s real money in them!”
He gave that roaring laugh of his. After
all, you had to like Biggar. “What does
it matter as long as we’re all happy—-especi-
ally her and the kids?” he asked.


, .
mm
MM
Distributors for tbe
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
u There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
>V ; y .. ' r " . - ’ , ' f -■ •' .V'-’ '
ask for it!”
flyCdllum’s
Scots (Ghisky
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
/
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
»•
r>
o
aP
o°
(V O 6
•''V
S 6
6 e
>3‘*
3
■a
**
*
S^e/V"
..• <**vw
•' V o*


-HILL
PROPRI ETARY.rt
MmEOWNERSIRop&STEELMASTEBS
! MARWACVURERiy
mm ?
aiais
m
ita
Bkii
i#
*■*
!«l
2fcj
2SS
m
Wk
is®
W§s
*9
i \&
Blooming
Mill,
MoivcdLsHe
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
BRIDGE and SLEEPER PLATES
BEAMS—CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES—TEES
LOCKING BARS
JOINT RING BARS
SQUARES—ROUNDS
FLATS—OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEEL
PIG IRON—INGOTS
BLOOMS—BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR—TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
SUBLIMED NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
422 Little Collins Street.
Telegrams and Cables: “Hematite,” Melbourne.
Branches; SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON.
WORKS:
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.
IRON KNOB, S.A.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
DEVONPORT, TAS.
WIRE PRODUCTS
Manufactured at the Works of
RYLANDSBROS. (Aust.) LTD.
NEWCASTLE.
FROM B.H.P. STEEL.
Steel Wire.——All classes and
grades for manufacturing
purposes, including Galvan-
ised, Bright and Coppered,
Spring, Nail, Welding, etc., “Waratah” Brand
Black and Galvanised Fencing
Wires “Waratah” Brand
(Waratah Tyeasy 1 2501 b. 8.5.)
Wire Netting.—Rabbit and
Assorted “Waratah” Brand
Hinged Joint Fence “Waratah” Brand
Motor By-Passes . “Waratah” Brand
Barbed Wires.—“lowa” or
“Waukegan” Pattern ..... “Waratah” Brand
Nail® “Waratah” Brand
Clothes and Guy Lines ...... “Waratah” Brand
Fencing Posts. “Star” Pattern
B-H.P . “Waratah” Brand
Flexo Droppers “Waratah” Brand
For all classes of Wire Products specify
“Waratah” Brand.
MANUFACTURED AT THE
NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
