

- HILL
propri eiAry ctc
MiklO\vherslr°r6StcelllAsters
Manufacturers^
II"
•m
fflffl!
Siiij
!
i%wm
ii H
L ■ ii:
iEjaga.
US'
gs
•.••••••••• ■
i
«&s&s
i
iHI
i
xwm
SjWiT ■*&
Blooming
Mill.
Mavvcisne
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
422 Little Collins Street.
Telegrams and Cables: “Hematite,” Melbourne.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON.
WORKS:
>KEN HILL, N.S.W.
IRON KNOB, S.A.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
DEVONPORT, TAS.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
BRIDGE and SLEEPER PLATES
BEAMS—CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES—TEES
LOCKING BARS
JOINT RING BARS
SQUARES—ROUNDS
FLATS—OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEEL
PIG IRON—INGOTS
BLOOMS—BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR—TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
SUBLIMED NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
WIRE PRODUCTS
Manufactured at the Works of
RYLANDSBROS. (Aust.) LTD.
NEWCASTLE.
FROM R.H.P. STEEL.
Steel Wire.—All classes and
grades for manufacturing
purposes, including Galvan-
ised, Bright and Coppered,
Spring, Nail, Welding, etc., “Waratah” Brand
Black and Galvanised Fencing
Wires “Waratah” Brand
(Waratah Tyeasy 12501 b. 8.5.)
Wire Netting. Rabbit and
Assorted . , “Waratah” Brand
Hinged Joint Fence “Waratah” Brand
Motor By-Passes . . . • • • “Waratah” Brand
Barbed Wires. “Iowa” or
“Waukegan” Pattern “Waratah” Brand
Nails “Waratah” Brand
Clothes and Guy Lines “Waratah” Brand
Fencing Posts.—“ Star” Pattern
B.H.P “Waratah” Brand
Flexo Droppers “Waratah” Brand
For all classes of Wire Products specify
“Waratah” Brand.
e
NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
The Bulletin
Ku&f \w&ks.
Vol. 53.—N0. 2742.
Wednesday, August 31, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, hT.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney,
»ffi!
This Book FREE to YOUI
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne. I
Please, send, without obligation, your New Pree
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing «m
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..... I
My A ddrcss
S.B. 332
Pure Safe
Fragrant
Is Best for Daily Use
Because while it is cleansing
and purifying the skin, by
reason of its pure, sapona-
ceous properties, it is sooth-
ing irritations, by reason of
its super-creamy emollient
properties derived from
Cuticura Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Supreme in Its Own
Field!
THE PERTH
Wmes
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) Its Country circulation is un-
equalled.
(4) The Metropolitan sales are
“home - delivery” circulation,
therefore most valuable.
(5) Foundation Member Audit
Bureau of Circulations.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium
puts you in touch with a valuable
market in the West.
TRY IT NOW!
AIjL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they call see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
if the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
193-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
é
"THE AGE”
Established, 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age*' publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Cbc n.Z. R«f«r«
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealapd, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, .Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or t 0.4
.4 ustralian Representative :
.W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Svdnev
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Buildins
Elizabeth Street.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
....what of the advertisements?
The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 85007.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Unending War
Hostility to new forms is common in
every art. It seems odd to a generation
which considers Kipling old-fashioned that
he should once have been condemned, in
some quarters, as sternly as Epstein is now.
The dislike with which the morality players
viewed the first dramas about life, with
which Puritans viewed the early comedies
of Wycherley, and with which Tories viewed
the early poems of Shelley differed very
little from that with which some nineteenth-
century critics viewed the early paintings
of Whistler and even Sargent, and some
twentieth-century critics those of John and
even Orpen. John and Orpen are con-
sidered conventional now; the plain man
understands them, or thinks he does, and
hostility is directed against artists whose
works, judging by past history, will seem
dull to the plain man’s children. Most of
the criticisms were intemperate as well as
unintelligent. Few thought of being polite
when confronted with new ideas expressed
by means of a new technique. That, any-
how, is altered. The ' elderly may take
exception to the efforts of some members
of the newer schools, but their manners
remain good in all circumstances. Two
books of criticism which have just been
published as numbers 8 and 9 of the
Hogarth Letter Series are examples of the
Tendency.
Modern Poetry
Virginia Woolf’s Letter to a Young Poet
is kindly, even affectionate, in spite of its
sub-acid flavor. He has written asking her
to tell him “where poetry’s going, or if it’s
dead,” She begins by disclaiming any
exaggerated respect for poetry:—
How, we despised prose writers ask when
we get together, could one say what one
meant and observe the rules of poetry?
Conceive dragging in “blade” because we
have mentioned “maid”; and pairing
“sorrow” with “borrow.” Rhyme is not
only childish but dishonest, we prose
writers say.
With this disarming preamble, this frank
intimation that music in words means
nothing to her as such, she gets to her
point. She imagines a number of common-
place happenings—happenings in connection
with an elderly woman named Mrs. Gape,
a girl on a ’bus, a man who has retailed an
improper story. The masters, she remarks
—Chaucer or Shakspeare or Byron—could
have made poetry of them. Somehow she
can’t see any of the young modem poets
of her acquaintance doing it. They shirk
contact with life. She isn’t greatly worried
by the young poets’ occasional descents into
bathos, though she cites some painful in-
stances. Wordsworth plumbed lower depths.
Her grievance is that after juggling with
beautiful words for a considerable time the
poet concludes with nothing of any value or
interest said:—
Never being, but always at the edge of Being,
My head, like Death mask, is brought into
the Sun.
The shadow pointing finger across cheek
I move lips for tasting, I move hands for
touching,
But never am nearer than touching.
Though the spirit leans outward for seeing.
Observing rose, gold, eyes, an admired land-
scape.
My senses record the act of wishing,
Wishing to be
Rose, gold, landscape or another—
Claiming fulfilment in the act of loving.
Such art is hard to understand. What
exactly is the bard getting at? It is likely
to take a quick-witted reader two or three
perusals to say. And it isn’t melodious.
Compare it with some lines which were not
condemned for obscurity or lack of technical
skill by the writer’s bitterest enemies a
century ago, but are outmoded now:—
lie has outsoared the shadow of our night;
Envy and calumny and hate and pain,
And that unrest which men miscall delight,
Can touch him not and torture not again;
From the contagion of the world’s slow
stain
Me is secure and now can never mourn
A. heart grown cold, a head grown grey,
in vain.
This may be sentimental, Victorian or any
of the other things that exasperate the
younger poets of to-day, but it is great
a.rt, The passage is imperishable, like some
passages from “Antony and Cleopatra” and
“Paradise Lost,” because, to quote Mrs.
Woolf in another connection, the writer has
at his beck and call “every word in the
language and knows their weights, colors,
sounds and associations.” The younger
poets, she suggests, have another weakness.
A genius has appeared here and there who
knew the world by
some kind of
miraculous instinct.
Gautier is said to
have written
“Mademoiselle de
Maupin” from
knowledge acquired chiefly in a cloister
But others must move amongst theii
fellows, and be profoundly interested in
them. If Mrs. Woolf is right the writei
to whom her communication is addressed
is not concerned with the herd, the sinners
and saints, rich and poor who have amused
and charmed poets in England from Chaucer
to Masefield. This young man and his
friends are too self-centred. They can
see . an aspect of life—usually a personal
one—with piercing clearness, but it is not
enough.
How can you learn to write if you write
only about one single person?
Her conclusion is that few should write
poetry for publication before 30, but she
doesn’t dream of dogmatising on the sub-
ject. She merely puts the suggestion for-
ward, with the diffident friendliness of an
aunt giving advice, which she knows won’t
be taken, to a wayward nephew.
As One Novelist to Another
Hugh Walpole is equally amiable in his
Letter to a Modern Novelist. The young
have said and written so many slighting
things about his work, which derives un-
ashamedly from the Victorian masters, that
when a youthful member of the profession
at which he has labored with a certain
success for 30 years asks for his opinion of
anew novel he is surprised.
You quite honestly confessed to me at
Seabrook when we were there together last
month: “All that your school of novelists
has to say about the novel seems to us non-
sense”—by “us” meaning, I suppose, your
entire generation, and by “my school” mean-
ing two or three doddery old fellows wh s
have shamefully outstayed their welcome.
As the world knows, Walpole is an authority
on Trollope, and he examines his young
friend’s methods in relation to those of his
master. He compares two openings. The
first sentence of “Barchester Towers” has
the effect of a good newspaper paragraph;
it makes the reader say interestedly, “Hullo!
I wonder who the new Bishop of Barchester
will be?” Here is a modern opening:—
The bell whose echoes broke the sym-
metry of the quartet round the bridge-table
ceased its sharp querulous anger only just
in time, for Lady Claneart.v’s maid had the
colic —indestructibly fugitive and the result
of a country passion for sheep's head.
“Indestructibly fugitive” is the master
phrase. It catches the eye and rivets the
attention, but it doesn’t arouse interest. All
it does is to create a peevish wonderment,
leading nowhere, as to how a colic, or
anything else, can be both indestructible
and fugitive. Style apart, the bright young
writers of to-day are not storytellers. They
don’t deny it—in fact they are proud of it
—but it is a disability in the opinion of
many readers, young and old.
Is this simple genius for story-telling alto-
gether so negligible? Homer had it,
Chaucer had it, Dante bad it, Shakspeare
bad it—mixed beautifully with other and
possibly greater gifts, but, all the same, none
of these geniuses disdained it. Of this par-
ticular art there is no sign whatever in
your book. There was a moment when your
hero, shrinking from the lady who loves
him, is tempted to succumb to the lady who
detests him ; for an instant I fancied that
an event of some sort would be born. But
no! All that occurs is that the clock strikes,
the visit to the Camargo Ballet is a dread-
ful failure, and he gives a cup of coffee at
a shelter to a prostitute.
A third main defect of the moderns—or so
it appears to a normal reader—is their
preoccupation with the abnormal. Heath-
cliffe, Alyosha, even Hamlet moved among
people who loved and hated on lines that
any reader of to-day can readily under-
stand,- three-fourths of the novels now
being written are about people as perverse
as the members of Plato’s set. Walpole
doesn t believe it is true of modern
England. His objections are mingled with
much warm praise; for the school of criticism
which recognised no mitigating circumstances
when it, thundered an unfavorable verdict
is out of fashion. Incidentally, the suave
school to which he and Mrs. Woolf belong
strikes one as considerably more blighting.
RED PAGE.
Mary Gilmore
Few handsomer volumes have been pro-
duced in Australia, than the de luxe edition
of Mary Gilmore’s “Under the Wilgas”
(Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne). And
the verse is in the main as fine as the
book is handsome. It gives a clear reflect
tion of the writer’s ruggedly sincere per-
sonality. It is strong and musical and it
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—The Foundation of Confidence.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony
Horderns'
Open the Season for MEN with
ax %
. -
I* ?
I
HH
JS
fT
■
M
■
■
“HORDURA”
HALF HOSE
Hordura
1 m wMwm. l H
Si
ALL WOOL
Except
..Ornament
SATISmcnON
assured to at!
our customers
Otherwise Mm
hos« Will fe®
replaced
fcNTHONY HORDERN
& SONS LTD. '
m
GUARANTEED
.hi mvmwMi
m
i *
■
'it
gl |
H
MEN! When you buy “HORDURA” Socks you get
* A Suitable Weight for Summer
® A Higher Quality for Wear
® A Bigger Variety for Choice
• A Lower Price to suit your Purse
In Short, “HORDURA” means True Value
To open the summer season with unbeatable value
in half hose, Anthony Horderns’ offer “Hordura”
Socks in fancy cashmere. Made from the finest
long staple cashmere yarn in a variety of designs
to match any suit. Special sizes available for
bigger men. "Hordura” quality half hose are
obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’, and com-
plete satisfaction is guaranteed.
OBTAINABLE IN TWO QUALITIES
Cold Label
“Hordura” Fancy Cashmere Half Hose. “Gold
Label” heavier quality. In Grey, Fawn, Brown and
Navy effects.
Sizes, to 1 1
Price, pair,
3/6
Sizes, 12in. to 13in.
Price, pair,
3/11
Silver Label
“Hordura” Fancy Cashmere Half Hose. “Silver
Label” quality. All pure wool except ornament.
New season’s designs on Fawn, Grey, Brown, Navy
and Marl grounds. Splendid value.
Sizes, 9|in. to 1 1 , Sizes, 12in. to 13in
Price, pair, Price, pair,
Men’s “HORDURA” Hats
With the Snap Brim
1716
111 All the Newest Shades
“Hordura” Pure Fur Felt Hats for Men. Featured with the popular snap brim. Available in the new
season’s latest shade of Plover Grey. Also obtainable in Zinc, Steel, Slate and medium or dark Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 17/6
MEN’S SOFT FELT HATS WITH PLAIN EDGE BRIMS
A serviceable, well-made hat for men in Soft Felt with plain-edge brim. Available
in the popular tonings of light Grey, Steel, Slate, Beaver and dark Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 8/11
8111
( Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
Summerweight
“JUMBUK”
Underwear
The Ideal Underclothing
for the Coming Months
OBTAINABLE ONLY AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
In All Pure Wool.
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear in Natural All Pure
Wool; summer weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40
Shirts, Short Sleeves . . 6/9 7/- 7/6 8/-
Pants to Ankle ...... 7/9 8/- 8/6 9/-
Trunk Drawers 7/6 7/9 8/3 8/9
Sizes, inches 42 44 48 30
Shirts, Short Sleeves . . 9/- 10/- 12/- 13/-
Pants to Ankle 10/- 11/- 13/- 14/-
Trunk Drawers 9/9 10/9 12/9 13/9
In Wool and Cotton.
Men’s "Jumbuk” Underwear. In Natural Wool
and Cotton Mixture. Summer weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 5/11 6/6 6/11 7/6
Pants to Ankle 6/6 6/11 7/3 7/9
Trunk Drawers 6/3 6/9 7/3 7/9
Sizes, inches 42 44 48
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 8/6 9/6 11/6
Pants to Ankle 8/11 9/11 12/-
Trunk Drawers 8/9 9/9 11/9
“JUMBUK” ATHLETIC SINGLETS
In All Pure Wool, Summer Weight.
Men’s "Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets. Cream shade,
in All Pure Wool. Summer weight. Sizes, 34in.
to 44in. chest. Bound with braid
around neck and armholes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . .
4)11
( Men’s Underwear-Ground Floor, George Street.)
Sportswear
will be necessary soon
CREAM PULLOVERS
Men’s All-Wool Cream Pullovers,
suitable for Tennis or Cricket.
Ribbed knit. Neatly finished
with club stripes around V-neck
and pockets. Sizes, chest, inches:
34 and 36 40
“ 12|6 13|6
CRICKET OR TENNIS
SHIRTS
Men’s Cricketing or Tennis Shirts,
made with collar and pocket
attached. In Mercerised Twill.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices —
5 3, 6/6, 8/6
Poplin de Luxe and Cesarine
Oxford.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .. 8/6
IN SPORTS STYLE
Also available with sports collar
and pocket. In White Mercerised
Twill, Cream Poplin' de Luxe.
CREAM SOCKS
Cream Mercerised Lisle
Soft finish, ribbed knit.
Sizes, 10 to 114 in. foot.
Price, pair
Hose.
1/11
Cream Cashmere Half
ribbed finish. Sizes, 10
to 111 inches.
Price, pair
Hose,
2/6
ê
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT. POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE TEMPORARY
HOME OF A
THOUSAND BATS
To see the magnificent exhibition of Cricket-
ing Materials at the big Store, to know that
Murdoch’s refuse to stock any requisites other
than those which can conscientiously be guaran-
teed, and to appraise the high standard quality
offering at these prices is to realise why
Murdoch’s hold first place in the affections of
Australian cricketing enthusiasts.
Gunn & Moore’s Bats
Gunn and Moore’s Autographed Bats are personally
selected and autographed by Alan Fairfax, Austra-
lian Test Player, now playing with Lancashire League.
The “Club.” This Bat, as its name implies, is
an excellent club Bat and well made
throughout, for , 32/6
The “Standard” an exceptionally good club
and private Bat 50/-
The “Special” a Bat of special renown and
is a good all-rounder 59/6
The “Alan Fairfax” Autograph Bat (super grade),
the highest-grade Bat possible to produce . . 62/6
“College Driver” a size 6 Boys’ Bat, suitable
for a club or private bag. One of this quality
is seldom seen in this size 22/6
A further selection of Gunn and Moore’s Bats, most
favourably known by all Cricketers.
“Autograph Star” 63/-
“Autograph” Extra Special 55/-
“Monogram” Super Grade 45/-
“Monogram” Selected 42/6
Other Famous Bats
The M.C.C. Co.’s “Champion” Bat, with bound
blades and selected cane and rubber
handle, for 22/6
Adams Montgomery and Co.’s famous “Grand
Slam” Bat, four crown, for 35/.
The “Waratah” Superior-quality Bat, a product
of Shaw and Shrewsbury Sport Co. Well
made and durable 42/6
Austral Bat Co.’s Bats
4< Practice,” full size 15/-
“Hummer,” full size 18/6
“Park Driver,” full size 20/-
“Alan Fairfax Autograph” Practice 22/6
The Hummer,” with cane and rubber handle, will
stand plenty of hard knocks.
Sizes— 2 3 4 6
Prices 5/6 6/6 7/6 12/6
Duke and Son’s “Warren Bardsley” Special
Murdoch’s Famous
“Truflex” Bats
The “Truflex” Bat, with exceptionally good, clean
blade; three-ply cane and rubber handle.
Size 6, 14/6 ; size 5 13/6
Size 6, with two-ply rubber and cane handle 13/6
Size 5, with two-ply rubber and cane handle 11/6
Size 6, all-cane handle 11/6
Captains !
We can supply Bats, etc., for Clubs.
Write to Desk “R” for special quotes.
ë
Wicket-keepers’ Guards
Wicket - keepers’ Leg Guards,
heavy white canvas, 3-roll
padding pair 18/9
Heavy Tan Leather, 3-roll pad-
ding 217-
White Nubuck Keeper’s Leg
Guards, perfectly shaped and
padded 35/.
Batsman’s Guards
Batsmen’s Stout White Duck Seven-
bar, continuous strap .. pair 11/6
Batsman’s Stout White Canvas
Six-bar, ventilated .... pair 14/6
Batsmen’s White Canvas, shaped,
P air 13/6
Batsmen’s Heavy Canvas, shaped
P air 18/9
Batsmen’s Tan Leather Seven-
bar pair 16/6
Batsmen’s Tan Leather, Six-bar,
ventilated pair 17/6
Tan Leather, shaped pair 20/-
Boys’ Leg Guards
Small Boys’ White Canvas .. pair 3/6
Boys’ White Canvas pair 6/6
Youths’ White Canvas pair 9/6
Youths’ Tan Leather .... pair 12/6
Wicket-keepers’
Gauntlets
Special Brown Nappa, well cupped
Palm pair 27/6
Special Model D pair 307-
Giants, fitted with finger tips,
Pair 21/-
Small Giant 10/9
White Buck with crepe rubber
palms 22/6
Plain Tan Leather 13/6
Plain Suede 12/6
Tan Leather with rubber face .... 11/6
II
Inner Gloves
Inner Gloves, wash leather 3/6
Inner Gloves, well padded 4/3
Batsman’s Gloves
White Fabric all over Glove with spiked rub-
ber back pair 9/-
White Fabric with green extra spiked rubber
protection pair 10/6
White Fabric with sponge rubber protection,
extra light and flexible 10/6
English Leather, open palm, block spiked lea-
ther protection 12/6
English Leather open palm, leather sponge
rubber protection 15/-
Men s Cream Trousers . . 13/6
M en’s Flannel Blazers ... 21/-
Men’s Cricket Boots .... 15/11
M en’s Cricket Caps 2/6
Men’s Cricket Shirts .... 5/11
Boys’ Cream Trousers ... 12/6
Boys Flannel Blazers .... 6/1
Boys’ Cricket Boots from 4/6
Boys’ Cricket Shirts 4/6
Boys’ Cricket Caps 1/6
We Pay Freight
Except on Cricket Mats ; these go
Half-freight Free to Nearest Port
or Railway Station in N.S.W.
Kindly Write Letters to Desk “K”
€
wrn
nc
EMKmjEOJI&ESIRHis
SYDNEY’S LEADING SPORTS DEPOT."
Cricket
Accessories
Stumps
SET OF SIX, WITH BAILS.
Full size Ash, with brass fer-
rule tops and steel shoes .. 10/6
With |in ferrule top and steel
shoes 11/6
With solid all-over top and steel
shoes 13/6
Extra large size, as used in grade
matches — solid brass tops
and steel shoes 15/-
Full size, plain top, and steel
shod 7/6
Ash Stumps, youths’ size, brass
ferrules 8/6
Boys’ plain Ash Stumps, 2/9,
3/-, 3/6, 4/6 set.
Cricket Balls
The new Two-piece Leather Six-
stitch Meteor 7/6
Murdoch’s Two-piece Gold Crown,
last year’s wonder ball .... 8/6
“Monarch” 5/9
“Viking” 10/6
Alan Fairfax, hard wicket ...... 12/6
Alan Fairfax, Autograph 15/-
Dukes’ P.K.D 15/9
Wisden’s “Colonial” 18/6
Hitchcock’s “Larwood Auto-
graph,” price 18/6
Compo Balls
Boys’ . . 9d
Practice 1/3
Hummer 1/6
Fairfax 2/-
Apex 2/6
Eclipse . 3/6
Trueflex 4/6
Avon (Rubber) 4/6
Sundries
Canvas Kit Bags, with blocked lea-
ther ends 30/-
Junior Size 22/6
Tubular Rubber Bat Grips, each.. 1/-
Bat-binding Twine, 100 yards, ball 1/3
Screw-in Sprigs for cricket boots, set 1/3
Bat Oil, bottle 1/-
Bails, per set of four 1/3
Score Books
Pocket size 1/.
Pocket size, stiff cover 2/6
Large size, soft cover 2/9
Untearable cover 4/6
Stiff cover 6/-
Superior-quality stiff cover 7/6
Cricket Mats
For long and serviceable wear!
Murdoch's two-piece leather-bound
Cricket Mats. Excellent quality
for £8/10/-


BOORS
THAT SHOULD INTEREST YOU
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10;
The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring: Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/l0;
Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichael
Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young, by
Marie Stopes, 4/10; Exercises for Women,
by Hornibrook, 5/4; Secrets of Successful
Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4;
Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay
Beale. 10/4; The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics
and Birth Control, by .1. Rutgers, M.D.,
15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M.
Gallichan. 0/3; Medical Views on Birth
Control. 6/4; Physical Culture Simplified—
A Complete Course of Physical Culture.
0/3: Knowledge a Young Wife Should
Have, by Phillip. 4/0; Mastery of Sex. by L. D. Weatlierhead —a vital book, 5/4;
These Beautiful Women —Prints of Paintings from Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge,
by Ely Cuthbertson. 8/0: Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an
Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/0;
Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”),
3/8; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter,
2/2 ’ Upholstery for Amateurs. 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Every Man His
Own Mechanic, 9/-; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-
made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues,
JUST OUT! Don’t fail to read
HELL’S DOORWAY
By F. J. THWAITES,
AUTHOR OF BROKEN MELODY.
TLie Latest Australian Novel True
to Life.
A SPLENDID STORY.
PRICE, 6/6, posted.
IMPORTANT !
DOMESTIC MEDICAL PRACTICE’’
A HOUSEHOLD ADVISER IN THE TREATMENT OF
DISEASES, ARRANGED FOR FAMILY USE.
FULLY ILLUSTRATED, FORTY-TWO DEPARTMENTS, BY
TWENTY-SEVEN SPECIALISTS.
Your attention is called to some of tlie following: How to
Diagnose Your Ailment; Symptomatic Treatment; Diagnosis
Charts; Accident and Emergency Chart: Diseases of Women and
Children; Motherhood; Medicines and Their Doses; Home Treat-
ment : Nursing, etc.
PRICE, £2/6/6 ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
1/2- Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Bose, 3/9; Henley’s 20tli Century Recipes,
28/6; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Clieiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian),
by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of Australian
Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 6/3; How to
Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets. 3/-; Motor Bepair Manual, 4/7; Motor
Electrical Manual, 4/7; The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Farenthood—a Manual of
Birth Control, by Fielding. 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-,
The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; Universal Cookery Book,
One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we recommend
it; Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7; How to
Drive a Car, 3/9; Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts, 2/9; Sound Film Beproduc-
tion, Just Out—Special Beference to
British Practice, 6/4; Commercial Art and
Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/9; Fresh-
water Aquaria, by Bateman, 10/9; Practical
Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 6/4;
Outboard Motorboat Book, blue prints,
17/-; Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Decorative
Design, 1/-; All Wave Receivers, 1/2;
Fowler’s Mechanics’ and Machinists’ Pocket
■ Book, 1932, 3/10; The Modern Diesel
Engine, 4/6; Mechanical World Year-book, 1932, 3/-; Birth Control Up-to-date, by
Eason, 2/2.
Write for any book you may require.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Norman Lindsay’s
64 PEN DRAWINGS IN
MAGAZINE FORM,
posted.
breathes an almost fierce love of Australia
Nor is this love mere idolatrous idealisa-
tion. Few people could know their coun-
tries better than Mary Gilmore knows Aus-
tralia. And her knowledge of it, be it of
its various country districts or its little
townships or great cities, is the first-hand
knowledge of one who has been gifted with
a mind to observe and a heart to feel.
When she writes of Australia—of its white
people or its dark people, of its children,
of its_ history, of its animals and flowers
and birds—she writes of that for which she
has ever been ready to fight and to suffer.
Few Australian writers can equal, for in-
stance, her understanding knowledge of the
aboriginals. She has lived amongst them.
In a note on the Waradgery tribe she men-
tions that she was alone with this tribe
on the banks of the Murrumbidgee for six
weeks and was made a child of the tribe
and a, “sister.” And in many of the verses
in this book she sings of them and voices
their superstitions and customs and simple
thoughts and emotional feelings. She has
much the same sort of feeling for them that
she has for those young white Australians
she knew through many v-ears of teaching.
The savage has always much in common
with the child. And possibly only one who
understands the child mind can understand
the aboriginal mind.
Then she sings of the wilga-tree and the
waratah and the ’possum and the native
bear, and of the black swan and the brolga
and the mountain thrush. And she has
poems about Australian writers—Henry
Kendall, Henry Lawson, Shaw Neilson, Le
Gay Brereton—and about “Father ‘Bulle-
tin.’” It is a book that sings Australia and
Australian things. And the singer can be
tender and deeply understanding, as when
she sings thus of “A Child’s Grief.”
“She was so strong,’’ they said ;
“She did not feel the pang.
Nor suffered she as they!”—
She, who so sensitive
Felt for the trodden grass
And wept a robbed bird’s grief ;
She, the derided, whose one strength
Was fear, whose only hope
Lay in her power to hide, withdrawn,
From all their bitter jibes and scorn.
“She was so strong,” they said,
Nor suffered.she as they”....
Yet her bruised heart,
Broken with childhood’s wrongs,
Ached till her head was grey.
Naturally with such an emotional writer
there are occasional technical lapses that a
critic could use to show his cleverness by
pointing out. But the book is an import-
ant one written by an important personage
who has lived and loved and sympathised
and always fought valiantly in what Heine
used to call the War for the Liberation
of Humanity. And any such technical
lapses on the whole surface of it are as
crevices through which is clearly discern-
ible the inspiring glow of genuine achieve-
ment.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Acute Appendicitis
There was a stir in the surgical dovecotes
lately when Sir James Berry, an elderly
London surgeon, said, in an "address, that
“there is a grossly exaggerated idea of the
mortality of appendicitis when it is pro-
perly treated on commonsense lines, and
not necessarily by operation.”
In support of his thesis he stated that
when he was a house surgeon at “Bart’s”
31 cases were admitted to the hospital with
the diagnosis of perityphlitis, as appendi-
citis was then called; none was operated
on, and only one died. Berry, however,
does not point out the fallacy of small
numbers; even so, these figures represent a
mortality of 3.2 per cent., while in uncom-
plicated appendicitis the operative mortality
is only between 1 and 2 per cent. One
of his contemporaries remarked that a
source of error lay in the fact that many
death certificates in those days were signed
with the diagnosis of peritonitis, which is
one of the most fatal complications of
appendicitis.
Moreover, Berry fails to recognise that
there are two types of appendical catas-
trophes: one obstructive, and one inflam-
matory. The differentiation—too technical
to discuss here—is of importance in prog-
nosis and treatment.
To bolster his thesis Berry quotes two
historical cases. One is that of King
Edward VII., who had an appendical
abscess. This abscess was drained and the
appendix was not removed; the patient
lived another eight years without further
trouble from it. Berry does not say,
however, that it would have been safer
if an operation had been done within the
first few hours of the attack, before an
abscess could develop. For although the
royal patient recovered, the presence of an
abscess definitely raises the mortality rate.
The second famous case is that of President
Ebert, of Germany, who died after an
operation; but Berry fails to point out that
with President Ebert, general peritonitis was
the complication, not an abscess. In any
case of peritonitis the mortality is high,
and all that one is justified in concludin cr
is that Ebert died in spite of the opera-
tion, not because of it.
King Edward was not seen by a- surgeon
until the fourth day, by which time the
swelling due to the abscess could already
be felt. It was drained on the ninth da.y.
This is still the treatment advocated by
most surgeons to-day at this stage of the
disease; but it is now a matter for reproach
if the case is allowed to go this far.
President Ebert was operated on, on the
second day, and peritonitis was already
present. Had 'the operation been done on
the first day, his chances of recovery would
have been reasonably good.
The great difficulty in treating appendi-
citis is that one can never be sure what
exactly is happening inside the’ abdomen,
and this applies especially to children.
Certainly the worst possible thing is to
administer castor oil or some other purgative
to anyone with abdominal pain before a
diagnosis lias been made. Lord Moj’nihan
has said, and many surgeons can corrobo-
rate this, that he has never seen a ruptured
appendix except where castor oil had previ-
ously been administered.
An analysis of 1222 cases at a large metro-
politan hospital showed these figures. There
were 495 cases of uncomplicated acute
appendicitis; the mortality was 1.2 per cent.
There were 130 cases with general peritonitis,
the mortality was 31 per cent. There were
597 cases associated with an abscess; and
6.9 per cent, of these patients died. Eight
of them had previously had an appendical
abscess drained; three of these eight died
with their second abscess. What a different
story Sir Janies Berry would have written
if our late sovereign had had that expei’i-'
ence!
And now, since it is the custom to end
scientific papers with summary and con-
clusions, here are mine:—
If you’ve a pain beneath the belt,
That’s mostly on the right side felt,
Below the umbilicus ;
And if it leaves you flat and sick,
As from a playful wrestler’s kick,
And greener than the ficus;
Although it may be renal colic,
Or restive gall-stones on the frolic,
The chances are, by far and far,
You’ve got appendicitis,
Acute appendicitis!
Now what is to be done? you’ll say.
Well, let there be no great delay
In summoning a surgeon.
For though, with time, it may subside,
Perhaps it won’t; then woe betide
Man, woman, child or virgin!
For should it spread to parts around,
And in your inside pus be found,
It’s all too clear you’ve more to fear
Than just appendicitis,
Acute appendicitis!
For this is what I want to stress:
It’s complications make the mess,
Not mere appendicitis.
And if you have a surgeon whisk
TIT appendix out at once, the risk
Of complications slight is.
But, with delay, the chance is great
That these dread omens, soon or late,
Will supervene; and that may mean
One more appendicitis death
(And shout it loud with all your breath!)
That’s due to complications,
Those ugly complications!
M.P.S.
A Satchel of Books
Prisoner's Base, by Ollc Hedberg (Philip
Allan; 7s. Gd.), is interesting, chiefly, as a
Picture of Sweden and the Swedish. Niklas
j s * sensitive lad who is driven from home
by the rudeness of his stepmother and be-
c/mcs a tramp. He is at the end of hit*
tether—having had his tent, bicycle and
other assets conflscated by a heartless land-
owner on whose property he is trespassing—
when salvation comes in the form of a
kindly student. Count Lewenhaupt has
translated it into colloquial English,
, .. , T 1 , TT
Atlantic Murder, by 1 rank H. Shaw
(Elkill Mathews; 7s. Gd.). The liner
Nigerian, crossing the Atlantic, is the scene
0 f three blood-curdling murders and three
hair-raising attempts at assassination. Two
of the victims are beautiful heroines and
another is'a charming young man who loves
and is unloved. The skipper spares the time
from .navigation to play the part of an un-
conscionably astute detective. He gets the
cbie and one of the heroines that wasn’t
murdered. A good thriller.
The 1932-11 Directory of Manufacturers
(Turner and Sons, Sydney) is a great advt.
for Australia as well as a useful reference
book. Its index of articles made in Aus-
tralia runs to 25 pages—and it is not too
much to say that 20 of them are there owing
t 0 our tariff. The printing and general get-
lip are
A recipe for making a modern “sopliisti-
cated” 110vel is nine-tenths book-learning
aud o “ o ' tent h observation. The ingredients
may be varied a little, but never in the
direction of more observation, otherwise the
dish goes wrong. The modern author .buys
a handbook on psychology and learns all
about libidos, complexes and goes ahead,
G. S. Viereck and P. Eldridge, authors of
The Invincible Adam (Duckworth; 10s.
6d -)> wrote F H st 2 ?°°. ’ wh l ch
enjoyed a considerable sale m Sydney after
it was learned that it had been seized by the
police in Melbourne, and a considerable sale
in Melbourne after the Melbourne police
released it. The present volume is the last
of a trilogy, the middle third of which was
“Salome,” which present reviewer hasn’t
read. “The Invincible Adam” is a restate-
ment of Jfe, T tlve a My lu ?<- 2000
Years.” Kotikokura, the Ape-man, “is sym-
bolical of man’s lower being, representing
the vital forces of nature and physical
strength. In all his incarnations from the
time when, hardly human, he is roaming-
primeval forests t 0 when he dashes up the
steps °f a New York hotel dressed only in
a monocle, lie is seen struggling against the
£ alse conventions of civilisation that seek to
bind him and limit him in his rem'orseless
desires.” It will be gratifying to apprecia-
tive readers of the first book to know that
civilisation gets the worst of the encounter,
Kotikokura meets Lilith, Salome, the Em-
press Theodora and sundry other famous and
infamous women of history is presented with
the 400 wives of an Arab sheikh’s harem
and has other adventures, any one of which
w ould make a perfect scenario for a movie,
The only time he comes! in contact with real
human beings is when he dashes up the steps
of the New York hotel in the above-men-
tioned monocle. None of the people who
witness the spectacle react naturally to it.
, a pe ,!' SoTial note the authors state that
Salome was hailed by exponents of
psycho-analysis, men like Wittles and Brills,
fl s an important contribution to the study of
the Eternal Feminine.”
Answers to Correspondents.
’No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
■ and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. xvill be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ouida P.: It’s very musty; and the
rhyming scheme is a puzzle.... Francis J. B.: Sorry
to have so often to say no to your good work; but
it is not suitable.... H. 8.: Mechanical R.W.J.:
“Pilfering” holds a thought, but is very rougli-hewn.
.... J.W.P.: Yes, but what do you propose to do
about it ?.... Odin : What, another spring song !....
S. and L.: Your little ray of sunshine wasn’t strong-
enough to warm the verse-reader’s heart... .R.E.G.:
Your fairies all come from the Old Colonists’ Home.
. ...T.McC.: No new colors on your butterfly’s wing.
. ...G.H.: Would have adorned the “Ladies’ Journal”
in the mid-Victorian years. . . .Geoffrey K.: You’re
too vague. Take your reader more into your con-
fidence.... Dudley G.: Well, frankly, it isn’t. As
for the future: (1) Avoid adjectives and the obvious.
(2) Read. (3) Think.. . .E. Els: This style:—
Give us a start and we’ll string you some verses—
Jiggety, wiggety, woggety, wog;
We don’t care a fig for your blessings or curses,
We’re happy as long as we jiggety jog.
... .John C. G.: Your bee moralises too much to be
poetic. .. .H.N.8.: Keep trying. There’s hope....
Leon B.: Much too long for our use even if otherwise
suitable. .. . Josephine M.: An idea; not well worked
out... .11.8. M.: One unique line, anyway: “The
balanced hen is nodding in the c00p”... .N.F.Iv.:
“Sea Nets” just failed. . . .B.B.: Took two readings to
find a meaning; and then it was in doubt....
Dimity: A nice pot of sentimental jelly... .M.F.:
But what is Madeleine —a hippo, or a puppy?....
Norma P.: Try again, say in three years.... C.C.C.:
You might do something if you would aim at
simplicity. And avoid words you are not sure of.
“Spring’s fall,” for spring’s budding, is a shocking
example. .. .Patricia G.: “The Cleaner’s Babe” is
kicking in the basket; “The Wanderer” has passed
0n.... Rosalind M.: Good ingredients, poor mixing.
. ...M.W.P.: Variations on that theme are regular
visitors. .. .8.P.M.: As .dried as your autumn leaves
that “struggle to some heaven’s eternal peace”—
probably a compost heap somewhere. .. .Philk: Now,
then, for a moral: —
THE CHILD AND THE CAT.
I saw a child one day
A-wandering in the street;
A lonely cat, a stray,
Was mewing for something to eat.
A little hand grasped it tenderly
And smoothed its ragged fur;
The cat ate hungrily
The child’s morsel and began to purr.
The mother came and took the child away,
And it was left alone;
The child was whipped that day
For wanting to take that cat home.
It set me thinking then:
1 wondered do you find such kindness in men ?
The answer made me wild;
I would that Man was like that child.
... .D.L.M.M.: Well done, but too slight in theme.
....Michael II.: Cheap stuff... .Mortgagor: The
limit for “Any Suggestions” or “Other Fellow’s”
page is about 300 words. Cut out all the rest and
give us your scheme. .. .P. A.: One of the m0b....
T. : Much obliged. But are you sure the im-
ported article of to-day is any better? E.E.:
Your Muse makes heavy going of Ottawa E.R.W.:
A good theme, Archdale Parkhill smacking his lips
over a feed of goat at Anthony’s Lagoon, but the
execution falls short W.8.P.: Too much pre-
amble for so little climax. It’s a chestnut, any-
way... .R.W.A.: Jerky, also dismal. . . .F.S.: Pretty
verse, but not enough in it.... 8100 Gee: Verses on
“The Mighty Snowy’’ a frost... .E.W.: No tang in
your burnt offering of gumleaves.. . .N.G.F.: Oh,
the flatness of it!... .L.C.R.: The last word in
rhymed feebleness... .T.P.8.: Misses, but not by
much. It’s a good refrain, spoiled by too many
prosaic lines... .L.A.S.: Sporting verse in scant
demand, but we must find space for the grouch of
the jockey who once won a race:—
Yet, though I thrilled to ’ear the punters cheer,
An’ got a fairly decent winning fee,
This final line will make me grievance clear:
The hoy I heat got more foi• letting me.
.... Brady’s L.: Too close to the original in metre ;
too far from it in everything else. .. .W.R.M.: A
good refrain, but the appeal is hardly wide enough.
. ...S.J.C.: Off with you and “despoil some un-
tampered reef of its placid and virgin charm”
instead of deploring the inactivity of others. ...
X. : Drags dreadfully... .L.F.: Toshy....
Sylvester: Darned if we can see the point... .R.E.1.:
And a wheezy effort it is... .R.C.1.: A weak ending,
and you don’t handle the sonnet with much facility.
... .Texan : Trivial... .R.E.: Four lines clamor for
admission: —
Out where they live on damper
And drink tea from an old quart-pot;
Out where the young lambs scamper
And the wealthy squatters squat.
. ...D.L.: Don’t be sloppy.... C.8.P.: Comes to
nothing... . G.W.: Sensational rubbish. .. .P.S.:
Humor is forced... . R. 8.8.: Your bushmen don't
behave like Australians... .M.A.: It begins to get
dull towards the middle... .A.L.J.: Feeble....
G. : Not what we want. .. .S.P.L.: Took the
count in the first round... .E.H.W.: Sort of stuff
a youth fed on thrillers would turn out... .L.S.M.:
Words, words.... A.C.8.: Improbable.... G.: No
accommodation for fairies here.... A.G.: A lame
finish .Lather: Barbarous enough, verily, but
there’s a hint of something better. .. .K.H.: Sheer
mush.... Retro: That yarn was printed in Thu
Bulletin just 10 years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.E.: Indistinct scrawls on letter.pad paper....
Y. : Caricature no more like him than Lang’s
bull is like a ’possum G.C.8.: P00r... .D. 8.: It
is as hard to read your handwriting as it is to
tell what the drawings mean... .D.C.: Make them
larger. .. .S.H.A.: An ancient wheeze... .G. 5.1.: Your
enterprise is praiseworthy, but not your drawings.
. ...G.E. and S. E. AY.: Promising. .. .F.D.: One
of the figures is copied from a Scorfield sketch....
R.S.A.: Not bright enough... .M. 8.: Wc don’t care
for silhouettes. .. .T.A.A.: A similar joke was printed
in a recent Bulletin A. J.A.: Insignificant....
H. : If you spent all the summer on beaches you
might learn to draw a bathing girl... .R.L.J.:
Dreadful L.0.M.: If that’s the best you can do,
get another hobby... .E. It.: If wc ever start print-
ing illustrated fairy tales we’ll try to remember
y0u....N.F.: Can’t you make your females look
like females?... .S.M.: What do all those tiny objects
in the top right-hand corner mean?... .N.D.: You
draw as if your fingers were frost-bitten... .H.P.:
A bundle of misfits... .J.K.M.: Give it up.


ew
FAMOUS
PORT
■
v.
/// eim7/ am/


The Bulletin
Vol. 53 —No. 2742.
August 31, 1932.
THE ONE THING WANTING.
“At the biennial Congress of the Australasian Society for the Advancement of Science, which concluded in Sydney last week, „unusual attention was given to the
relation of science to the industrial crisis.”
SCIENCE: “Look at the place! Want and misery everywhere, and more food and goods than it can use.
WISDOM: “Yes; you have given them much, without teaching them how to use it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone B~9TI.
Victoria : 11-b-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
YVestralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, V t Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l/s.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
S months, Is.
To any address Overseas i 12 months, £l 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route": Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. Neiv Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
OUR OVERSEAS DEBT.
“Engagements solemnly entered into cannot be set
aside by unilateral repudiation. That principle is
not challenged by anybody here. But it carries
with it a corollary, and that corollary is absolutely
essential to recognition of the principle. Both sides
in all agreements must he ready to face the facts.
And, among the facts, they have to consider not only
whether plans hitherto formulated have imposed an
impossible burden, but whether and how they have
contributed by economic, financial and commercial
unsoundness to the deplorable economic state in
which the world finds itself/’- —Prime Minister
Ramsay MacDonald to the Lausanne Conference.
The Australian borrowing policy came to
an end with the year ended June, 1929;
the millions added since have been loans—•
mostly short-dated or on overdraft—to cover
our deficits. As at June, 1929, our public
borrowings were:—
Commonwealth. . . . £377,621,572
State 726,406,490
Total . . . . £1,104,028,062
This aggregate was floated at home and
abroad in these proportions:—
Australia . . . . £531,745,159
Overseas . . . . 572,282,903
By the time the Premiers’ Conference was
held in May-June, 1931, there was 556 mil-
lions of Australian debt, 450 millions of it
bearing 5i p.c. and over. The whole of this
was converted to show a reduction of 221 p.c.
in interest. There was no serious practical
difficulty about this operation. The borrow-
ing authorities had simply undertaken to
pay more than it was possible to continue
to pay unless taxation was greatly increased.
The loans had been floated in Australia, and,
except where they were specifically exempt,
the interest was liable to taxation in Aus-
tralia-liable up to 100 p.c. The holders of
the bonds knew perfectly well, therefore,
that if they did not voluntarily convert,
accepting a lower rate of interest, tax legis-
lation could bring about precisely the same
result. However, this view was not put for-
ward. The voluntary nature of the conver-
sion was stressed; and the scheme was a
complete success.
That left us with our overseas debt,
approximately at the present date 600 mil-
lions, made up as follows:
4 p.c. and under .. ..£99,000,000
4 to 5 p.c 166,000,000
5 p.c. 237,000,000
5 p.c. and over . . . . 98,000,000
This debt and its interest burden constitute
a different proposition. What these bond-
holders do they will do with the knowledge
that they are safe from our tax-gatherers.
But, notwithstanding that, such a case can
be made out that it is highly probable a
conversion loan would be an exhilarating
success.
We are not going to say that it is not
possible for Australia to pay the interest
agreed upon. Thus far we have not de-
faulted—except for the deliberate default of
J. T. Lang, which was promptly atoned for
first by the Commonwealth Government and
then by his own electors. We have indeed
put up a record which is being held up to
other debtor nations as an example. We
have, we are told, done more than any other
such nation in turning an overseas trade
deficit into an overseas trade surplus; we
know we have more than provided for our
interest after paying for all our imports,
although in seven of the ten years prior
to 1931 we did not export enough even to
pay for our imports, and therefore borrowed
to pay every farthing of our overseas interest
bill. But we are not under any illusions
about our recent performance. It was done
only with the assistance of two extra-good
seasons; so far as the last season is con-
cerned,—the season in which we had the sub-
stantial surplus—it was helped by a high
exchange rate which had not yet had time to
generally increase costs. And, though we had
a trade balance, we were not able to escape
a heavy budget deficit. The holders of our
overseas loans are therefore not entitled
to assume from past performances that we
shall be able to carry our present burden
under all circumstances. It is very doubt-
ful whether we should be able to do it in
even a normal season without some help
from the markets for our staples.
And if prudence thus advises conversion
of all loans carrying more than 4 p.c., jus-
tice calls for it. The loans carrying the
higher rates were all issued in years when
money had a much smaller purchasing
power than it has to-day. At June 30, 1914
7 —just before the war—the average rate of
interest on the Commonwealth public debt
was £3 11s. lOd. p.c.; the average of the
State debt was £3 12s. 6d. p.c. At June 30.
1929, the average interest on the Common-
wealth debt was £5 3s. 9d.; of the State
debt, £4 18s. lid. p.c. In 1914 only £256,900
of State debt was carrying more than 4 p.c.;
at June 30, 1929, no less than 567 millions
carried more than 4 p.c. Our Common-
wealth debt (apart from the value of trans-
ferred State property) at the beginning
of the war was under 10 millions; with that
insignificant exception the whole of the
Commonwealth debt has been incurred dur-
ing the period of high prices. The Austra-
lian exports that would have brought £llB5
on an average during the 13 years from 1901
to 1913 were worth £2065 on an average
during the 13 years from 1917 to 1929.
To-day the same exports would be worth
approximately £1052. Thus more than two-
thh'ds of our total borrowings were made
during a period when we paid with 1052
bushels of wheat and bales of wool what it
takes 2065 bushels and bales to pay to-day.
Through the fall in the value of our exports
the burden of our debt has been thus almost
doubled.
And the people who gather our interest
have been the gainers by it. The Board
of Trade figures show that, taking the aver-
age of commodities, what was costing the
British householder £5 in 1924 was costing
him only £3 os. 7d. in May this year; in
other words, a shade over 3 p.c. interest was
worth as much to the British investor in
May this year as 5 p.c. was in 1924. And
the “Economist” figures show that what cost
£lOO in 1927 wa.s to be had for £6l in the
middle of August; which means that £3
Is. p.c. interest is to-day worth in England
as much as 5 p.c. was in 1927.
It was in view -of such figures that the
British Government lately asked the holders
of £2,085,000,000 of war-ioan bonds to con-
vert them from 5 per cents, to per cents.;
and the response has been magnificent. It
encourages us to believe that a similar
result might follow a similar operation in
respect of the Australian overseas debt. We
cannot hope for a 3i p.c. conversion; but
we might reasonably look for something like
4 p.c. As we have seen, prior to the war
the ordinary interest on Australian loans
was 4 p.c. or under; more than 56 p.c. of
the total then outstanding was borrowed at
3+ p.c. or less. In some respects, at any
rate, we offer a better security to-day. Then
each State was exclusively responsible for
its own debts; to-day the whole Common-
wealth has backed each State’s bill.
The time is just right to make a bold
move in this matter. Of our total over-
seas debt only about 75 millions can be
repaid without consulting the lenders; but
our efforts should not stop at that amount.
Hitherto whenever conversion has been
suggested there has been an agitated chorus
of “Hush!” In similar circumstances
Britain does not hush; and there is no
reason why we should. Our own people
have given a good lead by converting their
half of the debt, accepting a 22J p.c. cut.
We shall not ask that much from our over-
seas creditors. But we ought to atek
enough to make not only our position but
theirs a good deal safer than it is to-day.
There will, no doubt, be considerable de-
mands for repayment; but it ought to be
possible to meet these with new money,
seeing that the bank rate in England is
down to 2 per cent.
THE ANNALS OF A COUNTRY
DOCTOR.
How would a farmer judge a vet.—by the
man’s talk, or by his performances? If the
vet. had been given half a dozen jobs, say
with horses, and had made a ghastly mess
of every single one of them, would that be
regarded as a qualification? Would that
be accepted as a good reason for taking his
advice about horses? The farmer isn’t such
a fool. When a man has proved himself a
dud, then he is a dud, and all his tall talk,
all his pretensions, will not alter the fact.
Indeed, if, after he has proved himself a
failure, he persists in still giving advice
at large, persists in criticising other men,
the Australian way is to put him down as
a skite as well as a dud.
Fifteen years or so ago a country doctor
named Earle Page, who had been’a very
useful citizen of his northern (N.S.W.)
hamlet, and had done good work in looking
after its local affairs—and no doubt could
still—was elected to the Federal Parliament.
He had the supreme confidence which his
successful handling of the small local
affairs of Grafton, his country town, had
given him; Grafton had a population at
the time of 6800 people. After years he
joined Bruce in forming a Ministry to which
they both gave their names. This Govern-
ment, in which Dr. Page was Treasurer,
lasted from February 9, 1923, to October 22,
1929. Bruce had had some previous experi-
ence of office; Page had had none—he
started on this most difficult and important
political job as a raw amateur, backed only
by his administrative experience at Grafton
(pop. 6800).
Hughes had been Prime Minister for some
years prior to 1923; and Page was shocked
by his extravagance and by his Customs
and other exactions. The amount taken
from the people by way of Customs revenue
in the last complete year before Dr. Page’s
arrival at the Treasury was £17,328,310.
Though Dr. Page’s heart bled for the coun-
try, his Ministry increased these Customs
exactions to £31,832,600 in 1926-27. In the
first complete year after Page the amount,
taken from the people under this heading
was £18.224.237.
Before Page £17,328,310
Under Page . . .. . . 31,832,600
After Page 18,224,237
That is the record of the financial genius
who is to-day reproving Lyons—Treasurer
during the year after Page—and telling the
country that it is being bled white by
Customs exactions!
But Dr. Page has other claims to rank as
a financial genius. Imports reached their
maximum in his time: Australia’s purchases
of foreign goods in 1926-27 were £164,717,000,
which was no less than £62,000,000 more
than the top figure of the wartime. Exports,
of course, were quite insufficient to pay for
them and also meet the interest bill; and
money had, therefore, to be borrowed.
(Incidentally the Australian Freetrade poli-
tician’s ideas about Freetrade differ from
England’s to just about the same extent as
a kangaroo differs from a blue giraffe: there
is nothing in English Freetrade about float-
ing loans abroad to pay for imports.) The
increase of Federal and State debt in Page’s
six years at the Treasury was £210,505,000;
the total amount by which the overseas debt
was increased was £158,500,000. That is to
say, this new and appalling debt was almost
all of the overseas variety—the variety
which is now such a burden upon us, because
to meet its charges it demands gold or
commodities that can be sold for gold. In
these six years of peace we were loaded with
a debt whose service to-day calls for approxi-
mately 330,000,0001 b. of wool per annum.
By 1929 the annual interest bill for an Aus-
tralian family of five was, roughly, £45,
of which £9 was added while this remarkable
financier was in charge of the Federal
Treasury. As we have seen, Dr. Page
helped to push out Hughes and his other
predecessors in office because of their extrava-
gance. They had been extravagant. From
£4 18s. 9d. in 1917-18, Federal taxation per
head had been lifted to £9 os. 4d. in 1922.
Under the reformer Page it was further
lifted to £9 13s. Id. in 1926-27.
Many men are responsible for the condi-
tion in which Australia is to-day and the
worse condition in which it was a year ago;
but a greater share belongs to Earle Page
than to any other man. He arrived in
office at a time when it was most obvious
that a halt should be called. When he did
not call a halt Britain indicated its diffi-
culties by its migration loan. Later it gave
a more direct hint, which, instead of
checking the mad importing and borrowing,
simply sent our mendicants to tap a new
source of future trouble in New York. He
was the blindest incompetent that ever sat
in the Commonwealth Treasury; and him,
more than any other pan in Australia, the
country dwellers can blame for the struggles
they are now having.
Dr. Page is the vet. who was called in to
attend to our stock. The foregoing is a
plain statement of the result. Yet to-day
this man has the assurance—some people
would call it impudence—to tell the farmers
what to do in similar troubles and pour out
a flood of acid remarks about the men who
are trying to clean up some of the dreadful
mess he left behind him.
THE APPOINTMENT OF JUDGES.
Danger Owen. K.C., a just Judge and son
of a just Judge, retiring from the Supreme
Court Bench in Sydney a few days ago,
appealed to the younger members of the
Bar especially to see that “the independ-
ence of those who hold judicial office is
unimpaired.” On the same day the state-
ment was published that “the rumor is per-
sistent that the next Chief Justice of N. S.
Wales will be Mr. T. R. Bavin, K.C.”
Assuming that all the retiring Judge said is
wise, what can we make of this “persistent
rumor”?
“See to it,” said his Honor, “that only
men are appointed to judicial office who
are fitted for that honorable and important
position by reason of their training, ex-
perience and character. Use your influence
to prevent the appointment of men to serve
some selfish end, or because it is hoped
that their judgments may favor some
section or some individuals in the com-
munity.” But that does not mean, as some
people will ask us to believe it does, that
Mr. Bavin should not be appointed because
he was once a political party leader. Nor
does it mean that the Scullin Government
should not have appointed men to the High
Court because they had been members of
the Parliamentary Labor party. If we were
to accept any other proposition, we should
penalise every patriotic lawyer who puts
his services at the disposal of the country
in Parliament. Whether most Parliaments
would not be the better if there were fewer
lawyers in them is beside the question.
The thing to be aimed at is to improve
the quality of the lawyers who go there,
not to bar the entrance of the good ones.
Yet without a doubt a danger does lurk
here. The Labor Government has the same
right to call to the Bench a lawyer with
Labor leanings as a Nationalist Govern-
ment has to call a lawyer with Nationalist
leanings, and it is quite obvious that the
right is being freely exercised. The result
may be that we shall find young lawyers
with no special qualifications for the Bench
allying themselves with this party or the
other, not in order that they may serve the
country, but that they may serve them-
selves by securing an appointment to the
Bench.
It is no use saying that if we had the
right type of politician in our Govern-
ments such appointments would not be
made. Many of our politicians are not of
the right type; and those who are not
as bad as they might be are inclined to
defend any obviously party appointment to
the Bench by declaring that they naturally
expect a better sense of justice from one
who, having weighed the two sides in poli-
tics, decided in favor of the side to which
their own sense of justice led them, rather
than from one who went to the other side.
Ye can make up our minds, then, that
appointments from party adherents are
going to be not less numerous than hitherto,
but more numerous.
Justice Owen, in his address on retiring,
seemed to call upon the community to
cease impugning the impartiality of the
Bench. But shall we not encourage
charges of partiality by persisting in our
present system of party choice and party
appointment, in many cases of party adher-
ents? There must be some other way of
choosing Judges. The Bulletin has before
to-day suggested that the time has come
when their nomination should be taken out
of the hands of the politicians altogether
and reserved to the Judges themselves.
Even if we got no better Judges in that
way there is some reason to believe that
the public would believe they were better;
and, after all, what the public believes
about our Courts and our Judges is of
very great importance. The people would
still have the same control in the last
resort as they have to-day: in most States,
if not in every State, their Honors would
still be subject to removal from office by
resolution of Parliament—of both Houses
where there are two Houses.
THE “SCANDAL SHEETS.”
At long last this city of London is turn-
ing against its Scandal Sheets, as they
are called in the country where they orig-
inated. I say “this city” advisedly, because
the English provinces, which can boast such
great papers as the Manchester “Guardian”
and the Yorkshire “Post,” have never sup-
ported the other kind. The movement first
became noticeable when a weekly said Lady
Louis Mountbatten was leaving England to
escape the consequences of her association
with a colored singer. The victim of the
loathsome libel had never so much as met
the man referred to, and was going to Malta
to join her husband, who is a naval officer.
She took action, and the paper offered abject
retractions and apologies-.
The Barney case followed. Mrs. Barney
is a stout, blowsy-looking woman whose
age was given in Court as 26, though she
might be a deal older. The daughter of a
London business man and the wife of an
American actor, she was living, to quote
Mr. Justice Humphreys, “with a young man
of 25, strong and healthy, who, when he did
any work, had been a dress-designer.” Dur-
ing a quarrel the lover was shot, and the
woman stood her trial at the Old Bailey for
murder. Certain papers made a heroine of
her. Famous writers were paid large sums
to attend in Court daily and speculate about
her emotions and those of her relatives.
She was presented to the public as a frail
girl-wife, sacrificed on the altar of an over-
mastering love; but all who watched her
demeanor in Court, and were able to dis-
miss the press propaganda from their minds,
knew the truth. After her acquittal a vulgar
and insincere autobiography began appear-
ing in instalments in a. weekly of a type
similar to the one that had libelled Lady
Louis Mountbatten.
The unexpected effect has been to pro-
duce a violent reaction against the papers
responsible. It is no longer “respectable”
to be seen reading one; they are being
denounced by educationists and clergymen,
and they are experiencing unprecedented
slumps in advertising and circulation. The
very methods which have made them dis-
liked now made them popular once. Broadly,
their policy has been to “expose” the pros-
perous or famous (i.e., to publish scandals,
true or false, about these enviable folk “in
the interests of morality”), and to advertise
members of the underworld by writing of
their crimes, trials, lives and loves in a
vein of maudlin sentimentality.
For some time after the war money was
plentiful, society was fluid, and the doctrine
that Jack was as good as his employer,
and better, prevailed. In other words, social
conditions resembled those in America. Now
the nation is confronted by a financial
crisis, and the possibility of ruin, and it is
reacting as it has often done in the past.
There is less class jealousy, a greater dis-
position to pull together. The urge is to
build up, or at the worst conserve, rather
than to tear down. At the same time the
national wits have been sharpened. Millions
of brains that used to be concentrated on
sport are struggling with economic or poli-
tical problems. It is all helping in the dis-
comfiture of the Scandal Sheets, which can
only flourish in communities where cultural
levels are low; or so some of the best judges
of Fleet-street aver. The revulsion against
this un-English kind of journalism may be
transient, but many say it has come to stay
—that it represents the ending of a period
in the life of the metropolis.
LONDON.
EXRE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Basic Wage.
Nothing could better show the evil of our
present system of wage-fixing than the out-
cry which has followed the N.S.W. Indus-
trial Commission’s finding of £3 10s. as the
basic wage for men. “This is the end of
Stevens” was the gist of all the comment
of the Trades Hall. Nominally the poli-
tician has nothing to do with the fixing of
wages, which is supposed to be governed
first by the cost of living and after that by
the load the industry can bear. But Labor
politicians at any rate take an entirely
different view of their job, holding it to
be, first and foremost, to maintain wages if
they cannot be increased and to preserve
conditions of labor if they cannot be im-
proved. Compared with that obligation
every other is held to be scarcely worth
mentioning. And there is a very good
reason for it, too. Mr. Lang told his brother
Premiers that, in an election, that party
would win which would promise most on
the wages. Mr. Lang was right with one
qualification—the party must be able to
get its promises believed. Naturally, then,
since it is held to be the first political duty
of a Labor member to keep up wages, any
reduction of wages made while the National
party is in power is debited to that party:
“This is the end of Stevens.” Nothing
matters but wages; whether they can be
paid out of the proceeds of the industry,
whatever it may be, is of no consequence
at all. The result has been, not only the
corruption and degradation of politics, in
N. S. Wales more than any other State, but
large additions to the army of unemployed.
That the N.S.W. Commission’s finding
means a very severe fall of 12s. 6d. in the
basic wage for men is due entirely to the
trickery by which the Lang Government
sustained the old basic wage in the face
not only of numerous reductions of the
wage in other States but also of a pro-
nounced fall in the cost of living in N. S.
Wales. From Dec. 31, 1929, the N.S.W.
State award had been kept at £4 2s.- 6d.
because the Lang Government destroyed
the only body which could alter it. Mean-
time the Commonwealth award in Victoria
(where there is no State award) had been
reduced from £4 10s. 6d. to £3 3s. 5d.; the
Queensland State award from £4 ss. to £3
14s. and the State award of S. Australia from
£4 ss. 6d. to £3 3s. The most absurd feature
of the whole business is that there should
be this multiplication of awards: it would
be bad enough if there was merely one in
each State; there are, as a rule, two. And
the fact that Commonwealth and State
awards differ widely for the one territory
shows how ridiculous is the whole process
of arriving at a so-called cost of living, and,
moreover, is the cause of endless irritation
and industrial unrest. Arbitration for the
settlement of industrial disputes which
cannot be composed by the parties them-
selves is good, and must be preserved; but
the laws which encourage the manufacture
of disputes, and the general wage-fixing
legislation, ought to be swept right away.
= ♦
Holes in the Ground.
While the scientists and near-scientists were
trying to bring one another to their own
points of view in Sydney, those very prac-
tical persons who apply science to industry,
the members of the Australasian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy, were conferring
at Broken Hill. In a.n opening address the
president, Mr. Fairweather, superintendent
of the B. H. South mine, told the plain
story of the field’s achievements. First
worked in 1883—and very little worked in
the first difficult four years —the Broken
Hill lode has since produced 157 millions’
worth of metals. Its sinuous course is a
little over three miles long and at most it is
200 yards wide; out of so small an area a
value almost as great as that of all the
scattered coalfields of the State has been
won—their aggregate output is something
like 194 millions. Thus far 44 million tons
of ore has been taken from these Broken
Hill mines; this high authority looks for-
ward to an output of another 16 million
tons —it may be more, it may be less; every-
thing depends upon two factors, the value
of metals and the cost of production. But
he is sure of this one thing, that the indus-
try will employ fewer men than it did in
the past in proportion to tonnage output. In
1913 the Broken Hill mines had 10,000
employees; Mr. Fairweather doubts whether
there will ever again be more than about
3200. Inevitably there must be this move-
ment. There is a pretty general idea that
mechanisation has made possible the hign
wages of late years. But it is as true that
high wages have produced the mechanisation
and other changes in industry—not neces-
sarily only to earn the high wages, but to
increase the narrow margin of profit after
the high wages have been paid.
What has happened and is going to happen
at Broken Hill has happened and will go on
happening in primary' industries everywhere.
In proportion to output the aggregate labor
force has been cut down heavily and will
be cut clown still more heavily, it is no less
true of agriculture than it is of mining.
Fifty years ago even in Australia the farm
laborer who got 4s. a day for eveiy day he
worked in the year—and “kept” himself—
did better than the average. Advancing
wages compelled mechanisation; and
between them the engineer and the chemist
made higher wages possible. But the wages
in the agricultural industry—and to a great
extent in the pastoral business, too—are still
deplorably low; and even with these low
wages there is either no margin of profit
at all for the employer or a very narrow
one. So we have two compelling forces.
The urges for higher wages and better pro-
fits are bound to produce more mechanical
and chemical improvements in these two
land industries, just as the same urges have
produced the vast improvements at Broken
Hill.
It is possible, no doubt, that these changes
might take place in the land industries with-
out greatly affecting the total number of
persons employed; but it could only be
through a vast increase in the outputs, and
there is very grave doubt whether the world
wants vastly increased outputs of wheat and
wool. If it did want them, we have to
remember that we are not the only people
who could increase world production; for
mechanical and chemical improvements can-
not be confined to one country. More and
more it becomes evident, therefore, that the
prospect of greatly adding to the number of
our primary producers is not bright: the
world tendency is to steadily reduce the
number needed to meet the world’s require-
ments of raw materials. But there is not
in that fact any cause for alarm. The
world will go on needing more and more
manufactured goods, more comforts, more
entertainments perhaps; and an increasing
proportion of the people will have to turn
to the supply of these things.
‘ *
The Instalment Plan.
Tt is interesting to get the view of the
French Chamber of Commerce in Australia
on the world-depression. It blames the
immoderate inflation of credit for the crisis
and, incidentally, lays much of the blame
for the final crash on the hire-purchase
system which had been so enormously de-
veloped, especially in the U.S.A., during the
previous few years. This is a point which
invites consideration.
The old time-payment system kept few
friends, and probably did not deserve more,
because it fell into the hands of sharks.
The building societies were responsible for
bringing into the business quite a new type.
Largely they were men who sincerely
wanted to make business serve philan-
thropy. They borrowed at a low rate of
interest, lent to approved house-builders
who had made some savings themselves,
and by offering easy terms of repayment
attracted tens of thousands of clients in
Australia alone. The primary_ object was
to encourage thrift; and they did it. From
house-building the system was soon ex-
tended to house-furnishing; the machinery-
merchants took hold of it and made great
use of it, among farmers especially; and
as new inventions were put on the market
—the motor-car, the gramophone, the
pianola and *the wireless —more and more
use was made of the system, by now re-
christened hire-purchase. Alongside grew up
the cash-order and the lay-by, until there was
hardly a department store anywhere which
did not work some form of the instalment
plan. What was forgotten, the French
Chamber insists, was that present consump-
tion was increased, but that future con-
sumption had to be cut down correspond-
ingly. The buyer simply provided before-
hand for future wants; and the depression,
when it arrived, was thereby deepened.
“The mistake was caused,” the Chamber
adds, “by that. economic delusion which
leads people to believe that credit multi-
plies available capital.”
The American defence of the instalment
plan was simple and logical: it would make
people work harder and earn more. And
there is no doubt that it did have that
effect there —just as life insurance has had
it in this country. But in the U.S.A. it
presently had another effect: it encouraged
people not only to work harder but to
gamble harder. It introduced millions of
people to a way of getting something with-
out having in hand the means of paying
for it. This led to vast numbers of the
American people who had never before
gambled on the Stock Exchange joining in
the colossal speculation of 1927-28, most of
the purchases being made on a deposit. In
two years American brokers’ loans increased
by over £375,000,000, with a rise in interest
on call loans to 10 p.c—a madness which
was almost wholly responsible for the tre-
mendous influx of foreign money into the
U.S.A. during that period. And there can-
not be a doubt that the size of the collapse
and the prodigious losses it caused had a
great deal to do with the nervousness which
has ever since made long-term investment
unpopular.
In America it had been possible—what-
ever it may be now—for almost every man
to work harder and earn more; in Aus-
tralia, whose earnings are mostly governed
by awards, this justification of the instal-
ment plan—that it made men work harder
—had very small existence. It was almost
wholly a simple using up of future pur-
chasing power, without any set-off at all.
And though it had not much to do with
the encouragement of speculation on the
Stock Exchange, it certainly did encourage
extravagance; it may have had a good deal
to do, too, with the welcome which was
later given to the State lotteries and the
tin-hares in N. S. Wales —both of them
blots on our national life and a grave
reflection upon the national character.
It would be ridiculous, nevertheless, to
condemn the system altogether. No hard
and fast rule can be laid down. A hire-
purchase may be good or bad business just
like any other borrowing. But it holds
greater "economic and social dangers than
most; and it will be folly to ever again
look on it so complacently as the world
did during the 10 years before the crash,
when it was responsible for all the things of
which the French Chamber to-day holds it
guilty.
The Tlnreceptive Australian.
Captain Eckehsley, the English radio
authority, told an audience the other day
that he was rather astonished to find Aus-
tralia so conservative, so unreceptive of
fresh ideas. It is not a newly-discovered
quality in our character. Fifteen years ago
a very well-known English writer spoke of
Australia as “the country that does not
tolerate criticism!” It may be that our his-
tory is mainly responsible. We were few
people at the beginning, thrown mostly on
our own resources; and our population out-
side the cities is thrown much on its own
resources still. That sort of thing develops
initiative; and there can be little initiative
where there is not confidence. Those char-
acteristics, bred of our circumstances, were
welcome enough in Gallipoli, in Palestine
and in France. They are still indispensable
to a great many of our people.
Our isolation has its effects, too. The
lad who grows up alone, surrounded by
those who tell him how wonderful he is,
will think of himself as rather wonderful;
it is only when he comes into competi-
tion with others he begins to realise that
he has still a few things to learn. To a
great extent we are that lad; we have grown
up with truckling papers and politicians
telling us what a wonderful people we are,
leading all the world in political thought and
social progress.
And that naturally leads on to mental
laziness; so we become the slaves of
phrases. Something or other seems good to
somebody and he strings together, a few
words to describe it and catch the public
ear. The reform is preached with religious
fervor and maybe is presently adopted; and
thereafter it is liable to be clung to with-
out any examination whatever. Circum-
stances may change and the reform may
be out of date; but any attempt even
to get the thing considered anew is
almost impious. We have a fine example
of that in the matter of State school fees.
Years ago somebody invented the phrase,
“Free, secular and compulsory education,”
and, though we have toyed a little with
the “secular,” we refuse to even review the
merits of the “free” and “compulsory.” Out
of this springs naturally also our addiction
to censorships. We think so-and-so; there-
fore so-and-so is right. And so-and-so being
right, nobody else ought to hold any other
opinion. indeed, we carry the matter
farther than that. We think it would be
a good thing if we all sold, say, our whea-t
in such-and-such a way; therefore that is
the right way, and nobo.dy else is entitled
to want to sell his in any other way. So
we have compulsory pools and egg and
honey and peanut and Heaven knows how
many other “Boards.” They may be very
good things; but the serene confidence with
which we impose our will upon other men
has surely reached a higher point in Aus-
tralia than in any other country of the
world, except, perhaps, Russia.
Captain Eckersley does, however, wish
that people in Britain would be as earnest
about their Parliamentary elections as they
are in Australia. He might not be so wish-
ful if he knew more about our elections.
For, after all, that extraordinary earnest-
ness which he observes may be merely a
manifestation of that very quality which
surprises and evidently disappoints him —
our intolerance. No doubt there is another
reason more or less associated with the
first. In Australia we are frankly aston-
ished when we learn that father and son
are on opposite sides in politics in Britain.
The thing could scarcely be in Australia,
where politics have become mainly a matter
of more or less wages, better or worse con-
ditions for labor, more or less labor con-
trol over industry and trade. For the
most part there is no room here for argu-
ment : as Air. Lang told his brother-
Premiers, the man who can promise the
highest wage gets the workers’ votes. Now
and again something goes wrong, and the
party which promises the highest wage goes
down because it has just proved that its pro-
mises can’t be trusted; but so far as the
great bulk of the voters are concerned they
are terribly in earnest because they believe
that the other fellow is (1) the enemy of
his country and (2) our personal enemy,
inasmuch as he wants to interfere with our
bread and butter. With a good many of
us, he is our country’s enemy, of course,
because we regard him-as our own.
♦
Banks and Their Clients.
Dear Bulletin, —There is much truth in
what you said (10/8/’32); the public
knows practically nothing of the guiding
principles, far less the technical details, of
the complex business known as banking;
and the banks themselves have made little
attempt at general instruction, expecting—
with some justice—that people would refrain
from criticising what they did not under-
stand. The engine-driver’s job is to drive
his train, not to give lectures on the West-
inghouse brake; bankers have always been
sufficiently occupied with carrying out their
business efficiently, and have looked for
results rather than public approbation. Now,
however, one is forced to the conclusion
that smooth words are more prized than
good service.
The second premise of the article is also
indisputable. The banks live far more by
competition than co-operation, and have
suffered the evils of duplication and, if you
will, ostentation. But it is the banks them-
selves, and not the public, who suffer by
it. The public have the benefit of com-
petitive rates for deposits, advances and
general services, together with the strength
which competition alone can give.
The question of advances to Australian
primary producers is a difficult one and has
been from the beginning The fact that
some countries have forbidden certain mort-
gages of this type is in itself a sufficient
indication. But Australia has comparatively
few banks, and those banks, in consequence,
are relatively of much greater average strength
than those of almost any other country.
Also Australia was to be—for many years
at least—essentially a primary-producing
country, and if she was to develop at all her
development had to be financed, both for
the original purchase and preparation of
land and for running expenditure. It is
clear someone had to provide this finance,
and the banks, largely with money en-
trusted to them, undertook the responsi-
bility. As you say, they proceeded cau-
tiously, too cautiously for many people.
They scrutinised carefully the earning power
of the land, in view of average prices over
a number of years, and had regard to the
honesty, industry and skill of each bor-
rower. Whether they were right or wrong,
they have, at all events, advanced many
millions of pounds for the development
and on the security of country lands. The
greater part of that money was money de-
posited with them. What is their position
now?
When the Premiers’ Plan was put into
operation, the banks successfully resisted
proffered relief from current deposit con-
tracts. To have accepted this would un-
doubtedly have made easier the task of re-
ducing advance rates, but it would have
meant breaking faith with those who had
lent them money. The banks preferred to
accept the loss involved in the 1 p.c. ad-
vance reduction made in October last—for
which they have received so little credit—
rather than commit a legalised breach of
contract. The tremendous increase in fixed
deposits during the last 12 months has been
a striking—if rather embarrassing—acknow-
ledgment that, this step was wise, as well
as just. The banks are certainly not
anxious to foreclose; they are prepared, at
all costs, to keep the good man on the land,
the useful producer producing. There is no
other way out for Australia. To do this
they must retain the confidence of their
depositors, which requires not only the offer-
ing of a sufficiently attractive rate, but
also the payment of reasonable dividends
to shareholders. This latter fact is too often
overlooked.
Such, briefly, are the considerations which
the banks have to bear in mind at difficult
times like the present. Such are the
obstacles in the way of precipitate reduc-
tions in interest rates on both the borrow-
ing and the lending sides of the ledger. Is it
any wonder that the banks are inclined to
be impatient of public clamoring for con-
cessions. most of which is either mis-
informed. self-seeking or merely malicious?
The banks have undertaken—in the light
of their bitter experience of 1893 —the
responsibility of financing the man on the
land; and so long as they are left to con-
duct their own business and to deal with
their own clients in their own way, unham-
pered by unskilled outside interference,
they will continue to discharge that respon-
sibility.—Yours faithfully, E. K. S.
How the Money Goes.
“Gad”: Our local (N.S.W.) relief job cost
£lO4O and provided work for nine weeks for
about 60 men (20 per gang of three weeks
each). The majority of these men were
reputedly “well fixed.” In the first gang
(which included our local postmaster) some
drove on to the job in their own cars. A
typically deserving case was X, who recently
gave up a permanent job, owns a car, and
is affluent enough to hire help for his house-
work.
The net result is we have built a deviation
without which we could have got on jusc
as well. The ganger, who knows what’s
what, said he could have contracted for
the job for £7OO, and made money.
Meanwhile the poor dole recipient gets
least of all out of it—except the privilege
of supporting himself for weeks to come.
They started us off with two ration tickets
(value 7s. 3d. per week) for a fortnight. On
this (a little over Is. per day) I rose up
five mornings a week at 4.30 and, after boil-
ing up, walked five miles to the job. Worked
from 7 till 5 (with one hour break), and
walked back five miles in the evening. The
third week the rations stopped and will not
start again until our hard-earned cash is
paid out to the bitter end.
God send us a Government with some
constructive policy! On the dole one is
caught in a vicious circle. If the Govern-
ment, even locally, had used that thousand
pounds to set up a few individuals on the
road to independence, something at least
would have been attempted, and much
might have been won. But as things are
not one individual is actually better off.
and the country has actually fallen behind
to the extent of that loan.
Meanwhile we on the ration front are
sinking into a position of semi-starvation.
My neighbor (who is trying to work his
way off the dole) gets 235. 6d. per week to
support himself, wife and three children,
and is expected to walk,, fly or run 42 miles
every fortnight to get his tickets.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
w
V
£3O
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1 I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The lowering of the basic wage in N. S.
Wales will immediately benefit the export
industries, but nobody else. The industries
which depend upon local markets will suffer
until more people are employed and more
money is thus put into circulation; but the
export industries will gain at once by re-
duced costs, and the fact that until more
people are employed less money will be in
circulation will not affect them.
At £3 10s. the N.S.W. basic wage is still
well ahead of the Australian average. Vic.
lias no State award, but the Commonwealth
basic wage there, less the 10 p.c. allowed
by the Court, is £3 3s. 5d.; in Queensland it is
£2 18s. 6d. and in S. Aus. £2 18s. Id. There
arc no less than 10 basic wages in Australia
for metropolitan areas alone. In N. S.
Wales the Commonwealth award ( less 10
p.c.) has lately been £3 Ss. lOd.; the State
award in the same area has been £4 2s. 6d.
No wonder there is discontent in industry.
And no wonder so many people believe that
Governments can make wages just what
they please.
Tasmania taxes lottery prizes 4s. 3d. in
the £. The impression at Canberra is that
the Commonwealth Government will take
over this impost—less the odd 3d. perhaps—
and compensate the Speck with an addition
to its grant. That will admit of a small
income-tax reduction; at all events, it will
remove the scandal of letting lottery prizes
go untaxed while the Commonwealth takes
up to 9s. 6d. in the £ of property income
in the form of rents, dividends and interest.
Preference to unionists is back in Queens-
land. When the Storemen and Packers asked
for it, Conciliation Commissioner Ferry
announced that, unless very good reason was
shown to the contrary, he would grant pre-
ference in all cases where it had previously
been ordered by the Courts. A condition is
that union books shall not be closed against
new members; but there are ways and means
of getting over that.
The intend to propose some
drastic retrenchment when Vic. Parliament
resumes next week, and they are prepared
for a chorus of protests. Deputy-Premier
Menzies told a Hawthorn audience that to
justify its existence the Ministry would
have to do unpleasant and unpopular things.
Yet even if it does all that it aims at
revenue is unlikely to overtake expenditure,
which has had a long lead for years.
“Sydney Trades Hall spouters visited 20 or 30
relief jobs and urged the men to form committees
to ‘fight for their rights.’ Their reception was
cold, and not a man fell out.”
GIN-CASE ORATOR: “Why don’t yer strike?”
FED-UP TOILER: “I am striking—against
you.”
Queensland’s Forgan Smith Government
is retiring all civil servants of 68 years and
upwards, and says retirement at 65 will be
insisted on in future. Tlie first batch of
veterans will go in October. Ninety are
immediately affected, and aspirants to the jobs
that will fall vacant —some of them are im-
portant—are convinced that happy days are
here again, especially for “valued members
of Our Party.”
Old Tom ’Enley, who has the odd habit
of blurting out the truth, as he sees it, has
been at it again. Visiting Honolulu, he
told a local reporter, among other things,
that Australia’s recovery is retarded by
“mad men in industry, and timid, though
honest, men in politics,” and by “public
servants who invent taxes to maintain their
numbers and their inflated salaries.” “Aus-
tralia,” he said, “is the public servants’
paradise.” A Sydney U.A.P. paper pro-
tests that ’Enley’s statements are “extra-
ordinary.” What is extraordinary is that
they should be considered extraordinary.
The Moss Vale-Port Kembla railway is
open for traffic at last. Commissioner
Cleary attended the inevitable banquet and
mentioned that the line had cost _£1,500,000,
whereas the estimate was £1,385,000. He
was too polite to add that in his 1930
report he had reckoned the annual loss at
£76,000, with exchange to be added to the
interest bill. Mark Morton, one of the local
members, said he didn’t worry
whether railways paid or not.
Like all the tribe of politi-
cians, he leaves the worrying
to the taxpayers.
“Forty-one leading econo-
mists of Britain”—which
ought to about exhaust the
list—have agreed upon some
of the things necessary to set
the world right. The prin-
cipal thing to be sought, they
think, is restoration of prices ;
and among the things to be.
avoided is any forcing up of
the exchange rate. “So long,”
they say, “as the financial
structure of other countries
is in a position of extreme
jeopardy, no attempt should
be made to gain a competitive
advantage by depressing the
external value of the pound
below its internal value.”
Which, of course, is precisely
what Australia has been
doing—depressing the exter-
nal value of our pound to 16s.
or less sterling and 12s. 3d.
in gold countries.
By 468 to 240, the Redcliffs
irrigation settlement, near
Mildura, has declared for set-
ting up a pub under the
Mallee provisions of the Vic.
Liquor Licensing Act. Chag-
rined at its defeat. Cold Tea
proposes to ask the Supreme
Court whether a section of
the Licensing Act can over-
ride the Closer Settlement
Act provision forbidding the
issue of liquor licenses in
soldier-settlement areas.
The Sydney police have en-
tered a protest that the price
of nearly murdering an officer
for being on duty has become absurdly low,
though, as members of the New Guard found,
it is a serious matter to bruise the skin of
a Langster. As a rule, the penalty for bash-
ing a policeman is a small fine, with the
alternative of a few days in gaol. If the
offender is a member of a gang the gang
subscribes the fine. The Force holds the
view that the hoodlum who attacks a con-
stable simply for being himself should get
gaol without the option, and a good deal
more of it, and extra for being a “habitual” ;
and the Force is right.
The Wool Committee has been holding
its inquiry partly in public and partly in
camera, which is an unsatisfactory way of
doing things. Its first job should have
been to find out whether the industry really
is on the verge of collapse, as alleged, or
whether it is only certain people who have
bought at too high a figure 'and owe too
much; and whether that lias been dug into
nobody knows. So far it appears to be a
sketchy, discursive inquiry. Unexpected sup-
port is, however, being got by the section
which is dissatisfied with present marketing
arrangements. One proposal, put forward by
F. W. Hughes, an original member of the
old Central Wool Committee, is that the
Government finance the purchase of up to
400,000 bales in a season, to be released in
the summer months of the ensuing season.
If drought had stuck its dusty nose in, the
growers would benefit from advanced prices :
if it hadn’t—well, Mr. Hughes’s idea is that
no harm would be done.
One doubt which the Commonwealth Wool
Committee ought to clear up is about the
influence of the tariff on cost of production.
Every other day wild statements are made
as to the direful effects on both wool- and
wheat-cockies; but F. W. Hughes, who, after
47 yeai’s in the business ought to know as
much about it as most, declares that the
tariff is not a direct factor in increasing
wool-production costs.
South Aus. State politics aa-e more mixed
than ever. There are at least four Labor
“parties” in the Assembly, and one of the
two Lang groups is having an enjoyable fac-
tion fight. Labor Premier Hill, who repre-
sents Port Pirie, has arranged with the
Lib.-Cockies and the Citizens’ League to
stand for Burra, with two of his present
followers —it is a three-member electorate —
having been promised Lib.-Cocky-Cit. sup-
port ; but Butler, the Liberal leader, is
criticising his new “ally’s” measures as
briskly as ever, and Laffer, who was Speaker
in Butler’s time, says he is sick of Hill’s
Government and is pining for a change.
An early election seems likely, and if it
comes off it will be gloriously confused.
Godfrey Morgan, Moore’s Minister of Rail-
ways, has been plaguing the Queensland
Labor Government with inquiries as to con-
cessions granted to the Mt. Isa co. It was
originally agreed that if the Duchess-Mt. Isa
line did not pay, the co. would compensate
the Government at the rate of £lB,OOO p.a.
for 10 years. In 1930 the annual payment
was made, but in 1931 it did not come to
hand. It is now to be “cancelled,” and there
are also to be “rebates” conditional on the
price of lead. The Mt. Isa railway rate on
“At Washington, Mr. Bruce was received by Mr. Hoover, whose
prospects of re-election are doubtful. The President spoke warmly
of the years he had spent in Australia.”
“Tell me, Stanley Melbourne, as one friend to another
how does it feel to get it in the neck?”
lead bullion has been a mere fraction of
that charged for wool transport—£s Bs. is
exacted for carrying a ton of wool 200 miles
—but sheepmen get no concessions.
Lang put a ban on motor-’bus competi-
tion with the Sydney and Newcastle Gov-
ernment trams, asserting that as an imme-
diate consequence the trams would pay their
way. The Acting-Commissioner of Tram-
ways now reports a loss of £293,100 for the
year to June 30, though for eight full
months the trams had the field to them-
selves. As usual, the £293,100 is “trans-
ferred to revenue appropriation account,”
which means, of course, that it is charged
up to the taxpayers. The taxpayers have
also had to maintain thousands of unem-
ployed ’busmen, and many others placed on
the dole by the ruination of scores of little
shopping centres that had sprung up along
the ’bus routes. And to secure these calami-
tous results, a large part of the population
has been deprived of its right to ride in the
vehicles it prefers and put to endless, i-i con-
venience. Lang is the clumsiest of meddlers
and the rottenest of prophets.
Last season half the sugar Australia pro-
duced had to be exported. Nobody knows
exactly what it costs to produce a ton of
sugar in Australia, because the figure varies
enormously; but £l6 is a fair thing, and
raw sugar could be landed for half that.
This year about the same proportion will
have to be exported—at a further cost of
about 2|- millions. It is absurd to keep this
going. As there is no hope of producing ill
Australia at anything like world’s price,
the output must be reduced. Queensland is
in the same position with regard to sugar
farms as most States were with regard to
pubs; and the Vic. plan for reducing their
number might well be adopted. One bright
thing about it is that the trade provides
the compensation and tlie least desirable
shows are shut up first. The ultimate result
ought to be to cut down the cost of pro-
ducing Australia’s own sugar-supply by 33a‘
per cent.
Westralia has just carried through a very
good idea —a Railway Week. Motor trans-
port has been turning the State’s railway
figures a sickly green, and this “week” was
an effort to make the people realise it and
what it means to them as taxpayers. Here
and there'something lias been done to com-
pete with the road-trucks; thus in May last
wool rates were reduced from 12 to 20 p.c.,
according to. haul. But even now they are
shockingly high compared with other rates.
Years ago, when squatting was an
affluent business, wool was “socked” on the
ground that it could stand it; and more
or less the extravagant rates for all classes
of pastoral products still stick, though tin-
industry is a gentleman who has seen better
days.
Lieut.-Col. Farr, who has become assist-
ant secretary to the A.J.G., was one of
those carefully selected and expensively
trained Staff College graduates who have
found themselves unable to remain in a
decayed military service offering no pros-
pects. Others on a long list are: Brudenell
White, now in business; Blarney, the Vic.
Police Commissioner; 11. W. Lloyd, M.L.A.
for Mosman (N.S.W.) ; A. W. Hutchin,
M.H.R. for Denison (Tas.) ; G. C. Somer-
ville, sec. of the R.A.S., Sydney; and G.
Wootten, a Sydney solicitor. Now Brand,
a good soldier and a man eminently quali-
fied to implant a love as well as a knowledge
of soldiering in the youthful breast, has
been given notice that his country has no
further use for him, because he is 59. Some
of the irrational politicians responsible for
the too-old-at-60 rule made a man in the
late seventies manager of the N.S.W. State
lotteries, another Governor-General and a
third Chief Justice of the High Court,
Some of the things which these economists
discover from statistics are astonishing. Pro-
fessor Giblin —and he is less scholastic than
most —told the Science Congress the other
day that “even the high war-time prices [of
wool and wheat] gave returns, expressed in
retail goods, not much greater than during
the pre-war periods.” The squatter and the
cocky who thought they were having the
time of their lives during those years can
now make up their minds that it was all
a mistake. But the missus and the girls
will thank Heaven that the motor-car and
the new furniture, which arrived at that
time, are not a myth.
According to the “S. M. Herald’s” London
correspondent, W. M. Hughes has been
hurling scorn at the people who cling to the
idea that reparations can be collected from
Germany:
The position for years lias been farcical. Germany
has never varied her contention that she could not
pay. Despite all the whittling down, reparations
are’ dead.
Perhaps so. But as a negotiator at Ver-
sailles, and as an echo of Lloyd George,
didn’t William do his darnedest to establish
the impression that Germany could and
would be made to pay? Wasn’t it William
who, coming back to Australia, trium-
phantly announced that our share of these
reparations would be eight millions a year
at least, and that it would be all earmarked
for the returned soldiers? He didn’t tel
them that in England.
From the other side of the Tasman :
In a recent Bulletin criticism of firebrands in
the Australian public service, there was a refer-
ence to the Auckland riots which might convey a
wrong impression. It is true that members of the
Post and Telegraph Association marched in pro-
cession to the Auckland Town Hall for the purpose
of lawfully protesting against a 25 per cent, reduc-
tion of salaries, but the police evidence at the
trial of the rioters was emphatic that not one
member of the organisation took part in the riot.
It was not the fault of the P. and T. A. that lawless
individuals in no way connected with it seized the
opportunity to do their mad-dog work.
The Bulletin’s words were: “The Com-
munistic and destructive element at once
took advantage of the opportunity so
created.” It did not associate public ser-
vants with this element.
“A dispute as to costs in the N.S.W. Quarter
Sessions Appeals Court was settled, at Judge
Edwards’s suggestion, by tossing a coin outside.”
Proposed design for a new figure of Justice.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
THE WONDERS OF
MODERN INDUSTRY.
GUIDE (showing party
through hosiery factory):
“We me eighty tons of
artificial silk - spinnings
here every year.”
VISITOR: “Isn’t that wonder-
ful? And all spun by
thousands of dear little
artificial silkworms!”
“Pink Tape”: Most of the witnesses who
have come before the N.S.W. Tin-hare Com-
missioner have had memories that make,
sieves seem watertight; but one of them
had a few facts fixed firmly in his nut. A
“coursing” company had been formed in
one northern town, and there had been a
lot of talk about the capital and what
various figures in the books really repre-
sented. Finally, somebody said in despera-
tion : “Then may we take it that no money
at all was actually put up as capital of
this co.?” “Well, no,” said the witness, one
of the promoters; “a man named [say]
Smellarat put up £25. But the cheque was
no good. That was the lot.” Still the
“co.” held a couple of meetings, making a
loss on each ; and this witness had to foot;
the bill. Which probably accounted for
that part of the business not leaking out of
his memory with the rest.
“Craiser”: An Italian brigand named
Acciardi has just provided a future composer
with a theme which is so like the themes of
tire average grand opera as to look like a
plagiarism. Seeing his wife fall riddled by
the bullets of gendarmes, Acciardi seized her
body and made off with it, vowing ven-
geance. While carrying the corpse about
the country he succeeded in slaying 10
people; finally, being hotly pressed, lie left
his grisly burden under a tree on which was
pinned a list of five more of his intended
victims. For dramatic purposes 15 corpses
at a final curtain would be excessive, but
Aeciardi’s behavior is in complete accord-
ance with the ethics of opera, where every-
body is expected to abandon himself to his
emotions with the utmost degree of infatua-
tion,
“Lao-dah”: As recently mentioned in
The Bulletin, a rumor that the lost air-
liner Southern Cloud had been found
spread over Gippsland. The canard has at
last been run to earth by the Corryong
police. A man observed in the bush a piece
of rusty old iron weighing six pounds.
He told a friend. The friend passed the in-
formation on, adding 54 pounds to' the
weight of the iron. It was decided in the
village bars that a 60-pound piece of metal
could not have been deposited in the situa-
tion in which it was found unless it had
fallen out of an aeroplane. The iron grew
into the whole aeroplane, and the bodies of
the crew and passengers were added. As
when the ’plane was lost, so many reports,
each exactly the same or differing only in
unimportant details, reached Melbourne
that the discovery gained the appearance
of having had several independent witnesses.
The police learned that the man who came
upon the original fragment “did not attach
any importance to the find, as he believed
the metal had been lying in the bush for
years.” It has since transpired that it
once formed part of a poison cart.
“Jeames”: It didn’t surprise me to read
that “cow” had been taken up by the
maidens of Mayfair as a term of reproach.
And I shall be more than surprised if it
doesn’t reach Bellevue Hill and Toorak, via
Holders Green and Balham, within the
year. It is no new manifestation. In a
similar spirit many dropped their h’s (’orso,
’ounds, etc.) 60 years ago, and their g’s
(sliootin’, fish in’) 30 years ago, and took
to using words like “bloody” after the war.
The inspiration is a desire to be different
from the despised middle classes, who are
strong on the diction which alone distin-
guishes them from the workers. It is be-
cause the humblest English doctor’s wife
or solicitor’s daughter is liable to talk like
a stage duchess that members of the aris-
tocracy who aren’t quite sure of their posi-
tions are liable to talk like costers. It is
a shrewd gambit. The other ladies hesitate
to follow suit for fear of being mistaken for
costers, a calamity from w T hich the West
Enders are immune. We thus get a para-
dox : the more refined a society climber is
the less refined she has to be lest she commit
the unforgivable crime of being refaned.
❖ s{: ij{ :Js
“Green Chequer”: Mention was made
lately of the production of a galah in an
Adelaide court to give evidence in favor of
his master in a sly-grog case. The police
evidence rested on the banging of a back
gate and the sound of drawing corks, and
Pretty Cocky having demonstrated that h.e
was an adept at imitating both sounds the
charge was dismissed. Since then another
bird witness has entered the box, this time
in Melbourne. He was a homer pigeon, and
two fanciers laid claim to him, his identi-
fication marks having been removed by a
person who had stolen him and others
from various lofts. A youth was charged
with the stealing. The Bench ordered the
release of the bird, which settled the ques-
tion of ownership by going home to its own
loft. It also settled the fate of the thief,
who was convicted.
* * * *
“Deuceace”: The assertion in Lang’s
newspaper that the N.S.W. Government’s
action in closing down on tin hares is a
“ruthless attack on the noor man’s sport”
takes me back to the days when whippet-
racing flourished in Kalgoorlie and a Labor
Minister of the period, speaking at some
Trades Hall function, acclaimed the weedy
cross between a greyhound and a terrier as
“the poor man's racehorse.” There were
approving cheers from several comrades
financially interested in the business. “What
did Bill *say?” demanded one stalwart who
was slightly deaf, and who had only recently
been initiated into the whippeting game and
learned something of the ramps that were
an almost weekly feature of it. “He says
the whippet is the poor man’s racehorse,”
bellowed his neighbor obligingly. The other
nodded understandingly. “He’s right, dead
right!” he acquiesced ; “and I’ll back them
dogs to keep a blanky man poor’s long as he
has anything to do with ’em.” But the sport,
such as it was, continued to flourish for
some years and to compete for popular
favor with unregistered racecourses and the
local Trots —significantly known as the
“Red-Hots.”
“Ex-Sahib” : From what I saw and learned
in India, the native murderer generally
goes to his fate stoically, needing neither
bhang nor opium to support him on his way
LIGHTS OUT.
“Sally still calls her husband the light oj her life.”
“Yes. I don’t know where mine goes when he goes out, either!"
to the scaffold (B. 17/8/32). At an execu-
tion I witnessed, the subject betrayed no emo-
tion whatever. In fact, he was so collected as
to remember to salaam to me as I stood sur-
veying him across the width of the drop. The
gaol superintendent told me he never had
any trouble with male prisoners on the scaf-
fold. But females were apt to be less amen-
able ; sometimes he had to tie them to a chair
because they obstinately refused to stand for
the final act.
“X.N.0.”: “2nd Divvy” as well as the
Registrar of Clerkenwell (B. 24/8/’32)
might remember that after the Great War
the King, by Order-in-Council, gave permis-
sion to every officer who had served therein
to retain and use any naval or military
title to which he had become entitled. George
Y. did not differentiate between one method
of reaching any given rank and another, but
left it to the individual to make his own
choice. Even though many an officer “never
saw an enemy in the wild state in his life,
would “2nd Divvy” explain how an army
or navy could get on without staff, organ-
isers, and so forth, out of the fighting line.
Many of them doubtless ate their hearts out
because they could not get to the front.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Some cyclists who had acquired
+ he habit of cycling along a footpath through
a park caused Carlton (Vie.)
Court some headscratchi'ng. The
quaint fact that a footpath had
never been defined in law was
elicited after a gent, one had gone
back to the time of George IV. for
a precedent. Another knotty point
was whether a bicycle could be re-
garded as a carriage. The words
of “Daisy,” “I can’t afford a car-^
i-iage but you’ll look neat upon the seat of
a bicycle built for two,” were advanced by
counsel for the defence as proof of the con
trary. without impressing their Worships.
“Manana”; Revolutions, successful ol
otherwise have their humors; there is suie j
something to tickle, the fancy in the recent
cable about the Spanish rebel general who
stopped h's motor, when m full night, to
ask a policeman which was the road to
Portugal and was promptly arrested. A
more dangerous iiuestion for an omcer who
had iust taken the leading part in an abor-
tive insurrection is hard to imagine, Span-
iards in general, and military officers in
particular, having little use for 1 oitug.i ,
except as a handy place of sanctuary when
their own country has become too hot to
hold them. Most of such* in the near past
have made their get-away by air, which is
obviously safer. Anyhow, a Spanish general
with so' little knowledge of the terrain and
topography of his own country that he has
to* ask a policeman the nearest way out of
it would hardly be a very useful asset m
case of invasion.
* * * < 7
“F.S.”: Most visitors complain with jus-
tice of the lack of individuality of - Aus-
tralian provincial towns, but Ballarat might
be exempted from the general condemnation.
It is as proud of being the sculptural centre
of the Commonwealth as it is of its musical
eminence. Some of the sculpture is as
conventionally Italian as a grand-opera
tenor but it is at least superior to the bad
portraits of forgotten politicians which deco-
rate the parks of Melbourne. The statue
of the Scottish hero, Wallace, by the way,
has local interest, as the model for the top
part of it was Tom Carey, a local Labor
leader, who trained Scullin, amongst others,
in the art of swaying electors. Then
there is the world-famous begonia garden
which is the Mecca of flower-lovers in Feb-
ruary. Ballarat’s individualism had its
roots in a group of early pioneers with a
powerful sense of civic duty. Tlicy spent
the public money on aesthetic objects with
a munificence only possible nowadays to
bodies like the Felton Bequest.
:!: * * *
“Mells”: The term “Australian native,”
applied to a European, has always struck
me, with all due respect to the A.N.A., as
a queer misnomer, though most people have
long since become used to it. Not all.
though ; Daisy Bates, than whom no one has
done more for the aborigines, raises the
point in a Westralian paper. “I am sorry,'
she writes, “that British and Irish Austra-
lians have usurped this title, as it rightly
belongs to the aborigines only.” Taking a
line from the practice of other countries it
certainly does. Anyone of European extrac-
tion born in South Africa, even if his an-
cestors had lived there for centuries, would
be grossly insulted if he were referred to
as an African native. He is an Afrikander
—a very different thing. And Macaulay’s
supposititious visitor to some London of the
future, taking his stand on London Bridge
to sketch the ruins of St. Paul’s, wasn’t
represented as a New Zealand native, though
doubtless born there, but as a New Zea-
lander.
* * * *
“Centurion” : As part of an infantryman’s
clothing, I have found the puttee satisfac-
tory in all respects (B. 24/8/’B2), but not
so much so for mounted troops, even when
rolled on in reverse with the tape round the
ankle end to prevent it chafing through
against the saddle-flap. The best of woollen
puttees wore through quickly when their
wearers were practically night and day in
the saddle for weeks on end, as the Aus-
tralian Light Horsemen were in Sinai and
Palestine. With bases handy, that did not.
matter so much, since replacements could
be made, but when your base was under
your hat it was a different matter.
“Betul” : The Doughboys certainly set high
store on a pair of our puttees (B. 24/5/’32) :
but we were just as keen on getting hold of
some of their accoutrements. Their pack
was a model of ingenuity. Boiled up like
a swag, it contained everything that a sol-
dier, housewife or plumber might need, and
these packs caught our eyes more than any
other part of the Yank equipment. Soon
after the Americans began to pass through
the line there was a brisk trade going on,
and for some time afterwards it was nearly
impossible to distinguish some of our men
from the Yanks.
* * *
“Ela”: The unsophisticated savage of
the missionary tales doesn’t exist nowadays
—in Papua, at any rate. This was evi-
denced in Port Moresby recently when three
of the Armed Native Constabulary came up
before the beak on a charge of having tried
to sell bird of Paradise plumes to the crew
of a steamer. The plea in defence was
ingenious in its ingenuousness. All con-
fessed they were aware that to kill birds
of Paradise was illegal but not that it was
unlawful to sell the feathers. It was a
fine point, but the callous person _on the
Bench brushed it aside and made it three
quid a head or one moon in the clink.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : Many will agree with “Medic”
(B. 10/8/’32) that Sir William Arbuthnot
Lane was talking through his hat when he
broadcast the contention that Australia’s
allegedly everlasting sunshine was responsible
for Bradman. As far as athletic performances
and records go there is no conclusive evidence
for either sunshine or fog. For years the
Finns have practically monopolised the long-
distance track races, which call for perfect
condition and stamina, the Olympiad just
completed being no exception; yet Finland
is a region of cold and forest. On the other
hand, the Marathon, longest and most severe
of races, was won at Los Angeles by an
Italian, and that country has scored hand-
somely all round. The 1928 Marathon was
won by a French Algerian Arab, and at least
one Greek has scored in this race. Other
instances would go to show that muscle and
speed are built up and developed in all
countries.
EXIT WINTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Mares, N.S.W. State Meteorologist, said that
the temperature of 78 registered in Sydney last week
marked the end of winter.’’
Winter, the hounds of spring are on your
traces,
As Swinburne phrased it in sonorous
rhyme.
To such alluring arts and glittering graces
Of metaphor alack! I may not climb.
The homelier way that I should put your
case is
To say the chucker-out is calling “Time.’"
Be off, before he kicks you down the stairs !
He stands no back-chat, weather Avizard
Mares.
To doubt his dictum were the worst of
treasons.
Our clocks and calendars by him are set;
He ushers in and out the whirling seasons,
A meteorologic martinet,
And gives invariably cogent reasons
To show why morrows should be dry or
wet.
And, if he doesn’t always hit the spot,
At least lie’s quite as often right as not.
Your innings, while it lasted, was a riot.
Up goes the umpire’s hand, and sharp and
short
Rings forth his “Out.” You wouldn’t fight
his fiat?
I’m pretty confident you’re not that sort.
Best bow your snowy head and go in quiet,
Taking your walking ticket like a sport.
Avaunt, then, trailing with you cold and
cough
And ’flu. Come, mizzle, edge, vamoose, buzz
off!
So long! Let earth renew her raiment
vernal,
While brewery lorries creak beneath their
loads,
And birds awake with melodies diurnal
Their forest aisles and similar abodes,
And long-haired bards consume the oil
nocturnal
O’er sprightly villanelles and lilting odes.
Come, hit the track, you’ve had a decent-
spin.
Winter, your dash is done, your alley’s in.
No lingering and loitering! Remember,
0 acris hiems, season wild and wan,
It’s not the wattle, glowing like an ember,
Nor yet boronia that spells “Begone,”
Nor yet the fact to-morrow brings Sep-
tember—•
More than all those, it’s Mares who moves
you on.
His word is law, beyond all shade of doubt.
No arguments avail when he says “Out.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kerys”: Quick-thinking is a rare gift.
Three girl cyclists were riding abreast the
other evening through one of the Sydney
suburbs, the two outers protecting the inside
one, whose light was not burning. The omis-
sion caught the eye of a local p>.c., Avho stopped
(lie trio and produced his notebook. “Well,
you’ve still something to learn about traffic
laAvs,” said the brightest damsel with
scorn. “Don’t you know that if three
cyclists are riding together it doesn’t matter
if the middle one has a light or not?” The
bluff worked, and the trio rode off trium-
phantly into the night.
“Clarendon”: The cables tell us of a
luncheon in London “in commemoration of
the planting of Australia’s parent vine-
yards.” Prominently displayed, it is added,
"was the root of a vine from the Stony-
fell vineyard (S.A.), planted by John
Busby nearly a century ago.” Things want
straightening out here a little. John Busby
didn’t plant anything at Stonyfell; he was
a N. S. Wales grower, and wrote a treatise
on the vine and wine-making. Really the
Macarthurs, besides being responsible for
introducing the wrinkled sheep, have the
best claim .to be called the pioneers also
of the wine business in Australia: William,
the son of John, imported half a dozen Ger-
mans to show us how the thing was done.
Busby did send cuttings to Stonyfell, where
fine old Sam Davenport had lost started
INTERRUPTED.
“Gee, they were rooking this one, Betty.”
his olive-grove (the Davenports and the
Davenport Clelarids have ever since been
connected with wine and olives in S. Aus.) ;
but Reynell, who founded Reynella, a few
miles further south', seems to have been
the first man in S. Aus. to own a vine-
yard. (And the Reyn ells are still in the
business, too.) John Reynell’s first vines
came from John Macarthur. Incidentally,
another very old S. Aus. family house,
Bickfords, has just taken over the market-
ing of the Stonyfell oil.
“Ida D.”: With due respect to the medi-
cal profession (B. 3/8/’32), most teachers
and people who have to do with children
agree with G. W. Holland, president of
the Vic. R.S.L., that an abnormal num-
ber of soldiers’ children, born in the later
years of the Avar and the early post-war
years, suffer from nervous diseases.
Teachers generally have come to refer to
these as “war-children”; their nervousness
mostly manifests itself in a sudden irasci-
bility or an utter loss of concentration during
a lesson period, perhaps lasting only a min-
ute, perhaps much longer. This, type of
child must be dealt with gently. Sharp
words or strict measures are worse than use-
less ; I have found that such children are
almost always of a most generous and lovable
disposition. The prevalence of chest com-
plaints among war-children was a new one
to me, but “Pawang’s” par. immediately
brought to mind the eldest child in three
families I have taught since the war. Each
of these has a “weak chest” and has to be
carefully watched. They all come from
sturdy stock on both sides., and neither par-
ent shows signs of pulmonary weakness, but
the father in each case is very war-worn. I
know one doctor of repute who says that
if a number of children born within the
four years after the war are lined up with
others, he can pick the former without any
difficulty.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Good-conduct prisoners receive
their reward in the shape of a reduction
in sentence, but an inmate of Geelong gaol
recently got a letter of thanks from the
local general hospital. It was a testimonial
to. his public-spiritedness in allowing his
veins to be drawn on in a blood-transfusion
case.
* * *
“Lex” : I have a theory that three-fourths
of the talkie-advts. in the evening papers
represent wasted effort, not to mention
money. Examples :—.
Brilliantly daring, it peers behind the curtained
windows of Society’s boudoirs, into the very souls
and lives of the women who play at marriage and
And divorce a thrill.
Fearlessly it strips these modems of their camou-
flage and exposes in all its shame the battle of sex
as it is played among the smart set of Park-avenue.
The emotional thrill of the year.
The soul of society stripped bare—a daring-
woman’s heart laid open.
A daring story of reckless wealth and bankrupt
morals.
She tried to be true to two men.
I tried these extracts on three acquaint-
ances taken at random —a youngish
solicitor, a nurse and an elderly gardener.
All go to the talkies occasionally,
and have views about things, and the
capacity to express them. All said, in
their different ways, that such publicity put
them off the pictures it was designed to
boost, and that it had the same effect on many
of their friends. The nurse said she “wasn’t
interested in what a blurbster was paid to
write.” The solicitor said “it made him sick”,
and the gardener was even more forcible.
My notion is that moron advts., like some
of our moron papers, are lagging behind the
collective intelligence of the masses—an in-
telligence which has been greatly quickened
by. the Russian experiment and the world-
crisis.
“The Listening-Insect” : One of the char-
acters in Shaw’s “Saint Joan” is the Bastard
of Orleans. Melbourne audiences took the
fact in good part during the Sybil Thorn-
dike season, presumably because the char-
acter was a Frenchman and the French
always were a queer people. Everybody
knows that. But apparently it is not sq well
known that the custom of recognising one's
natural offspring was also prevalent
amongst the English aristocracy. Anyhow,
when a highly-respeetable radio station re-
cently broadcast portion of Shakspeare’s
“King John,” in which a similar character
is introduced, the staff Avas buried several
inches deep in indignant letters of protest.
“Surplice”: Two clergymen who are col-
laborating ii. a history of the Anglican
church at Paterson, N.S.W., the records of
which run back to 1539. came across a docu-
ment pasted into the parish register, which’ at
first sight seemed to suggest that a clerical
impostor was abroad in the ’fifties. It is
a certificate issued under the hand of
“Thomas Jackson, Bishop-designate of Lyttel-
ton,” and records a marriage at sea on the
sailing-ship Castle Eden, bound from London
to Lyttelton. January 6, 1851. Lyttelton,
though it was the nucleus of the Anglican
Canterbury Settlement, was never an episco-
pal see, that honor being reserved for the near-
by city of Christchurch. Selwyn was Bishop
of aii_ Maoriland in 1851, and it was not
till 1857 that Christchurch had its first Bishop,
Dr. H. J. C. Harper. But the incumbent of
Paterson at that time, “Parson Addams,” was
not the man to admit anything to his regis-
ter he wasn’t sure about, so old history wa®
ransacked to solve the mystery. The solu-
tion was found in the papers of the Canter-
bury Association. The llev. Thomas Jack-
son was nominated, probably by Lord Lyttel-
ton, to be Bishop of the new settlement, but
he did not definitely accept the see. Instead
he said he would journey to the scene of his
proposed labors and confer with Bishop
Selwyn before he decided. He sailed on the
Castle Eden, found it impossible to agree
with Selwyn as to the boundaries of the
proposed new diocese and returned to occupy
an English rectory. As to William R
and Muriel T- , whom he linked on the
voyage to these parts, they probably disem-
barked at Sydney. They -lid not long remain
in the Paterson district. It is on record that
ALL ATTENDED TO.
‘'Just to think of the luck of
that young feller Cohen, for
his old man to peg out and
leave him five thousand
kervid.”
“Yes, an’ he don’t even have to have a salvage
sale, neither.”
they had some doubts about the validity of
their marriage, and that these doubts were
set at rest when Parson Addams with his
own hand pasted their certificate in his regis-
ter, giving the bride a copy.
“Iskander”: A cable mentions that the
Chinese Government has ordered a campaign
of research in the universities in order that
the science of gas warfare may be thoroughly
understood in the Republic. Curiously
enough, it was the Chinese themselves who
first invented gas warfare, for the “stink-
pots” which an astonished British Navy
encountered in its early conflicts with the
Asiatic nation were a primitive but effective
form of modern gas warfare. The Chinese
claim to have used these for many thousands
of years, long before “Greek fire,” that com-
bination of gas and incendiary shell, was
heard of in the Eastern Mediterranean. Here
we see them going back again to an improved
form of their own original conception.
“Stung”: I read in a Sydney daily the
other morning that a trusted officer of the
Bank of N.S.W. periodi-
cally makes night, trips
on a Manly ferry to
dump spurious coins into
the harbor. Unfortun-
ately, they’re not all out
of harm’s way yet. Some
days ago a flower-
hawker called. I bought
a shilling’s worth of his
wares, and, having no
small change, paid with
a ten-shilling note, get-
ting back four florins
and a .shilling. Later I
found that one of the
former was counterfeit.
At a neighbor’s place the
same evening I men-
tioned the incident, and
the lady of the house made a frantic rush to
examine her change from a pound-note
handed to a flower-hawker, presumably the
same one. She.had six bad florins!
“Medic” : The herd instinct is exceptionally
strong in Sydney. Hiking is conspicuous at
the moment, as biking was 30 years ago.
Thousands plod off, and endure the discom-
forts inseparable from crowds, so as to be
able to say in effect, “You’ve read about the
hikers ; well, I’m one.” The “S. M. Herald”
mentions periodically that “the Film Society
will attend a performance of ‘So-and-So’ ” —-
usually a film which has been neglected by
the vulgar. The members are in revolt
against the herd instinct, which they despise.
Hoi polloi patronise one kind of film, so the
eclectics patronise another kind —cn masse.
A film-society member would get no thrill
from condemning Garbo, or any other mob-
idol. alone. Surfing at beaches like Bondi
and Manly has the same origins as hiking.
There are people who travel from perfectly
good beaches to Bondi on Sundays, because
Bondi pullulates with humans on that day.
Iceberging corresponds to mass film-viewing.
An Iceberg, like a Film Society-ite, wants to
be able to say. “Watch me being superior”;
he wouldn’t enjoy freezing alone and unad-
vertised in the least. Lang’s meetings at the
last State elections were outstanding
examples of the strength of herdism in N. S.
Wales. They got bigger and bigger as the
campaign went on till at last it became im-
possible for many to hear him even through
the loud-speakers, and the traffic of the city
was disorganised. Yet, as the results showed,
he Avas losing support all the time. He drew
the croAvds because Sydneyites love to be
among people of their own type and the
more people the merrier.
“Ivea”: Touching the obligation of
sheriffs to act as executioners, if they can’t
.sublet the job (B. 24/8/’32), Maoriland
some years ago possessed an officer AAdiose
family attributed liis early demise to his
being unable, owing to the sudden death of
the usual hangman, to put his hands on a
successor. It was not until the very last
moment that a man willing to do the. deed
Avas secured, and before that the. sheriff had
taken to his bed. He was a dignified elderly
gentleman and a churchAvarden, and he never
got over his nervous breakdown.
“Cunegond”: Frenchmen take the same
passionate interest in the structure of their
language as Australians do in the revision
of the length of cricket bats. After three
centuries of gestation the Paris Academy
Avas recently successfully delivered of a
ucav grammar. It immediately became a
best seller, 150,000 copies being sold with-
in a few hours and its contents being the
chief topic on the boulevards. During the
next feAv days the Academy got so many
protests about the defects of its offspring
that its ’phones broke doAvn and the two
chief midAvives felt obliged to flee to Lon-
don. A fortnight later an eminent gram-
marian of the Sorbonne issued a 150-page
criticism of the official publication, and it
also proved a best seller, the excited popu-
lace snapping it up to the tune of 38,000.
The Academy was forced to admit that there
Avere at least 20 points on Avhich its OAvn
Avork required emendation, and has recalled
it. Nevertheless, it brought in £3OOO.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A Melbourne hair-
dresser, recently returned, reports changes in
the European fashion landscape. Women
are dyeing their hair to match their gowns,
platinum blonde being a favorite combina-
tion, though almost any other is permis-
sible. Not to be outmoded the European
male is going hatless, keeping his locks in
place by means of an invisible hairnet,
which seems more sensible than the vogue
I observed in Berlin in 1914. Most of the
meu then Avore nothing on their heads except
their hair, but they carried a hat clipped to
their lapels, much as a well-dressed artisan
has two buttons on his coat-tail Avhere his
aristocratic forebears used to carry a
sticker. I went out for a walk with a Ber-
liner and he was suffused with shame when
he discovered he had left his hat at home.
Nothing would content him but he must go
back and get his headgear, but he never
put it on all the time I was with him. One
of the strangest manifestations of a respect
for fashion I have ever encountered was a
Avoman I saw in Collins-street, who had
lipsticked a harelip.
SHACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During a discussion on modern architecture at
the Science Congress, one speaker declared that the
city of Sydney had been reared without art, culture
or civic pride, while another stigmatised it as a
collection of shacks.”
Ah! had some glib and globe-trotting
appraiser,
Some carping visitor from OA r erseas.
Some Christie Murray, say, or Foster
Fraser,
Indulged in such amenities as these,
How many voices, raised in hot rebuttal,
The bare suggestion had in pieces torn,
And left the author seared with satire subtle
Or scorched with stinging scorn?
But these, our kin, bright lights of learning
rated,
These scientists we gathered to our arms.
Welcomed and fussed about and fed and
feted.
Expecting eulogies upon our charms
And glowing tributes to our city’s beauty—
These to explode in such a withering
snort!
It makes a patriot mutter Et tu, Brute!
Or something of the sort.
O rude forefathers of our hamlet, builders
Of Empire by a spacious harbor’s side,
Your stunted vieAv aesthetic souls bewilders.
Where Avas your culture and your civic
pride?
Where was your art and where your sense
of fitness?
You’d none, just none, these cognoscenti
vow.
Your sins are visited upon us. Witness
What we must suffer now.
Ah! had a stranger drawn this picture
dolesome.
What fiery protests would the heavens
rend!
But there’s a notion that home truths are
Avholesome,
And “sAvcet the wounds,” says Scripture,
“of a friend.”
II may be so, although I’m far from cer-
tain.
But. whatsoe’er this Science Congress
lacks,
It’s forthright, anyhow. Ring down the
curtain....
Shacks! Do we live in shacks?
N.S.AV.
MIDFORD.


AN UNBIASED OPINION
“The Automobile Engineer” (London), official organ of the Institution
of Automobile Engineers in an article on Modern Fuels states: —
. Competition has compelled other petrol producers to adopt like methods of
control, but the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT sets a standard of
quality not only in this country but throughout the world."
—“Automobile Engineer,” Dec., 1931-.
INSTANT STARTING
SHELL
INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
51297
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays : —•
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 61, and Prof. Brereton
(Syd.), • 61, on 2nd; historian A. W. Jose, 69, on
4th; Melb. barrister A. D. Ellis, Litt. I)., 47, on
sth; artist Ohas. Nuttall, 60, on 6th; Q. ex-
Treasurer W. H. Barnes, 74, and C. J. Dennis
(“Sentimental Bloke”), 56, on 7th; Coajutor-Bishop
Coleman (Armidale), 45, on Bth; Bishop Cecil
Wilson (Bunbury), 72, ex-Justice A. B. Piddington
(N.S.W.), 70, P. V. Storkey, V.C., 41, and Dr.
J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer), 54, on 9th;
Adelaide’s ex-Lud Mayor Lavington Bonython, 57,
on 10th; Field Marshal Birdwood, 67, and Vic.
Senator Guthrie, 60, on 13th;. W.A. Chief Justice
Northmore, 67, ex-N.S.W. Minister R. T. Ball, 75,
and Bishop Frodsham (formerly of N. Q’land), 70,
on 14th; Prime Minister J. A. Lyons, 53, Col.
Percy Owen, 68, and Col. Hurry (ex-M.H.R. for
Bendigo), 64, on 15th; Bishop McGuire (Towns-
ville), 51, and Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.), 58, on
17th; ex-Prime Minister Scullin, 56, Justice Mc-
Arthur (Vic.), 71, and Melb. architect W. A. M.
Blackett, 59, on 18th; Major-Gen. Edwin Tivey, 66,
on 19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.), 57, on 20th; Philip
Charley, 69, on 21st; Major-Gen. Brudenell White, 56,
on 23rd; Bishop Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 65, and knight
Sam Hordern, 56, on 24thi; W. M. Hughes, 68, on
25tli; Rev. Dr. Chas. Strong (Melb.), 88, on 26th;
Josiah Symon, K.C. (S. Aus.), 86, and S. Aus.
Chief Justice Murray, 69, on 27th; Prof. Oxer
(Ormond Coll.), 64, on 28th; Brig.-Gen. T. Griffiths,
67, artist Rupert Bunny, 68, and author Rev. Father
Eris O’Brien (St. Francis’ Presbytery, Sydney), 37,
on 29th; Brig.-Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 62, and ex-
W.A. Senator Needham, 58, on 30th.
Two new Country party members of the
N.S.W. Assembly have only a couple of legs
between them —George Wilson, _of Lake
Cowal, near Forbes, and Dick Wilkins, the
man who ousted Gus Kelly for Bathurst.
Both were Diggers.
Dr. George Craig, M.L. Comptroller of Cus-
toms, has passed his whole working life in
his department, having joined it 41. years ago
as a cadet of 18. Like H. H. Sterling,
chairman of the Railway Board, Craig has
found the study of law of inestimable benefit
to his career, and he got his first big step
upwards when, having qualified by spare-
time study, he was appointed solicitor to
the department in 1903. The Assistant-
Comptroller’s job came to him 10 years
later, and he reached the summit, nine years
Dr. CRAIG, Comptroller of Customs
(M.L.)
ago. He continued his law studies while
climbing the ladder and afterwards, graduat-
ing as LL.M in 1915 and LL.D in 1928.
Craig was born in Dunedin, of Scottish
parents, and it need hardly be added that
every fine Saturday afternoon finds him oil
a bowling green. In his younger days he
was a good oarsman.
A. B. Piddington’s son Ralph resembles
his father in forming strong opinions and
expressing them strongly. And, like his
father, he lias distinguished himself at Syd-
ney Uni., where he recently graduated as
Master of Arts, with first-class honors in
psychology and anthropology, which lie
has chosen as a career. Whatever may be
thought of his views on the treatment _ oi
aborigines in North Westralia, which
prompted a recent comment, he did not
arrive at them without local study. For the
National Research Council he did field work
among the abos. in 1930, making La Grange
Bay his headquarters, and again in 1931,
when he went on to Beagle Bay. In the
meantime he spent several months in Hawaii,
having been appointed to a research fellow-
ship at the university there. Father and
son are about to be separated again, an over-
seas appointment having been conferred on
the young man by scientists interested in
his w T ork.
John Gunn, who is chairman of the Wool
Committee, is one of those Labor Premiers
who got out while the going was good. He
was Treasurer and head of the Government
in S. Australia when Bruce was knocking
bis elaborate Development and Migration
Commission together; and because he had
JOHN GUN N, Chairman Wool Committee.
shown himself a very level-headed fellow
Stanley M. invited him in to play seconds
to Gepp. When the bottom fell out of
things and the Commission had to go, Gepp
altogether retired from the service, but
Gunn was given a job to devil in a general
way for Ministers; and so he takes this
wool inquiry in his stride.
Vic. and Commonwealth Treasuries will
get substantial probate cuts from the estate
of knight William McPherson, former Pre-
mier of Vic., and head of a big hardware
and bolt-manufacturing firm in Melbourne.
He left £439,000, most of which goes to his
son and his two daughters. Employees who
served for five years before his death will
share in £5OOO to be distributed among them,
provided they have not taken part in any
strike while in his employment. It is un-
likely that any of over 300 eligibles will be
excluded on this head, for Mac. was a just
boss and had remarkable freedom from
industrial disputes.
Senator Paddy Lynch is about to enter
the lists again against his fellow-West-
ralian, Walter Kingsmill, for the Senate
Presidency; he was only narrowly de-
feated three years ago. Nobody could
have filled the chair with more credit than
the urbane and scholarly Kingsmill. who
qualified for it by 16 years of service as chair-
man of committees and President of the W.A.
Legislative Council, but there is a certain
sympathy for Lynch, who has been 26 years
a Senator, and a particularly hard-working
one. without ever getting out of the rank-
and-file, except for a fleeting three months
when Billy Hughes utilised him for a stop-
gap Minister. Whichever way it goes, _ the
contest is likely to be as close as last time.
Anyhow, if they do take from Johnny
Faw 7 kner the honor of being founder of
Melbourne they can’t take from him that of
being the proprietor of Melbourne’s (1) first
pub, (2) first library, (3) first newspaper:
and that is a pretty good treble for one mail-
Johnny had notices about both his pub and
his library in the first numbers of his “Mel-
bourne Advertiser” —hand-written they were.
As to the library the proprietor gently inti-
mated that “those of the subscribers who
took credit are most respectfully informed
that it is usual to pay up all debts at the
beginning of a New Year.” The first issue
was dated “January the First Monday 1838
The Bulletin’s Service Department lost
a sound adviser when John Fraser McEach-
ran died at Coogee last week. When a
feature was made of the Service _ page five
years ago, Mr. McEachran was invited to
handle for it questions relating to the
diseases of domestic animals, and he con-
tinned to do so right up to his death. Born
in England 57 years ago, he went to Maori -
land after taking his M.R.C.V.S. at Glasgow
University, and was employed by the Gov-
ernment as a veterinary surgeon. Later
he was chief vet. to the South Gov-
ernment and he worked for other Govern-
ments at Darwin and Sydney before going
into private practice at Randwick. During
the Boer War he doctored sick horses for
the 6th N.X. Mounted Rifles. His genial
personality and fund of humorous anecdotes
made him a general favorite.
At .86 Dr. Ward took a keen interest in
the Science Congress in Sydney, drawn
thereto chiefly by his son Keith, the Govern-
ment Geologist of S. Australia. Ward —
“Whiskers” Ward in those days—edited
Sydney “D. T.” in its most brilliant period,
lie was a contemporary of Traill, of the
Bulletin; Wilfred Blacltet, K.C., who was
on the Sydney press in the ’eighties, ranks
Ward and Traill as the most courageous
editors he ever knew. Ward was one of
those rare birds, a journalist who could
make a great speech—he was trained for
the church—and his qualities as a writer
once landed him on London “Times,” but
Australia called him back.
The decision of the Queensland Govern-
ment to retire civil servants of 68 years and
over will lop more than one tall poppy.
One is C. A. Bcrnays, Clerk of the Assembly
since 1920, whose dad occupied the same
office for many years. Bcrnays began his
Parliamentary work with “Hansard” in
1879, and he has written several valuable
books on Queensland politics and politicians.
He is in his 70th year. W. Harris, another
marked for the axe, is 6S and is one of
Queensland’s notable police magistrates
the first of such to hold the office of City
Coroner. Others are Public Curator Mole,
Sheriff W. 11. Carvasso and J. E. Baines,
Taxing Master of the Supreme Court.
In R. E. P. (Dick) Osborne, Adelaide
has lost one of its best judges of dogs,
flowers and cricket. He was a member
of the Stock Exchange—in partnership with
Rutter Clarke for many years; a director
of Mutooroo Copper and other concerns, and
on the National -Park Board and the Agri-
cultural Society’s canine committee.
Joseph W. Corbett, formerly of Morwell
(Vic.), who has passed on at 90, was the
first engineer to investigate the possibilities
of brown coal in Victoria, and raised the
first thousand tons from a gully on the
north bank of the Latrobe River. When
manager of the Gippsland Coal Co., Cor-
bett made briquettes as long ago as 1890
and sold 2000 tons in Melbourne. He was
a pioneer experimenter in other ways, and
with a small machine of his own he obtained
921 b. of crude oil from one ton of coal. The
plant was destroyed by a bush fire and the
company’s bank failed, so the first epoch
of brown-coal development was closed.
His friends tell Dr. Arthur Baclie Walkom,
secretary of the highly successful 1932 con-
gress of the Australasian Assoc, for the Ad-
vancement of Science, that he can handle
human almost as well as he handles plant
fossils. The 43-year-old D.Sc. was born at
Grafton (N.S.W.), and educated at Petersham
and Fort-street and later at Sydney Univer-
sity. That institution rewarded him with a
B.Sc. degree with medal in geology, handed him
a Macleay Fellowship and conferred the Doc-
Dr. WALKOM, sec. of Science Congress.
torato upon him in 1918. H'e spent a number
of years in Brisbane, where he was a lec-
turer in geology and mineralogy at the Uni-
versity, but since 1919 has been secretary of
the Linnean Society of N.S.W.. and since
1926 the very popular general sec. of the
association whose congress he lias just seen
safely through.
A veteran with memories was Samuel
Lake, just dead in S. Aus. Born in England
iii 1848, he was a sailor in the West Indian
trade before coming to Australia and cart-
ing poles for the overland telegraph about
1870. Then, having driven his bullocks
through to Darwin, he stayed on the north
coast, fishing. He finished by farming in
the south, his later life brightened with
memories of Louis de Rougemont.
The vigorous campaign conducted by J.
V. Fairbairn and his supporters, aided by
his personal popularity and his knowledge
of the needs of the man on the land, enabled
him to do what many thought impossible
and eject the Labor Minister for Lands, H. S.
Bailey, from Warrnambool. The new member
belongs to a well-known Western District
J. V. FAIRBAIRN, M.L.A. for
Warrnambool (Vic.)
family and is a nephew of George Fair-
bairn, one-time the State’s Agent-General.
He received his schooling at Geelong Gram-
mar, and when the war broke out, not long
after he had left school, he joined the Fly-
ing Corps, did a lot of fine work in France
and in 1917 was severely wounded. His
’plane came down behind the German
trenches and he was captured and remained
a prisoner for over a year. Returning
then to Australia, he took to grazing. He
is a keen church worker, a member of the
Ballarat diocesaji council; he is also a mem-
ber of the Hampden Shire Council.
E. A. Kruss, an Adelaide man, has died
of war injuries in the U.S.A. at 43. As
a youth, he left S. Aus. with Virgo, of the
Y.M.C.A., and was for some time its
assistant-secretary in Sydney. Then he
moved on to America, and was one of the
early aviators in the U.S.A. Army. It
lent him to Italy in war-time, and his
bombing raids over the Austrian lines
brought him a “Crown of Italy” knighthood
—and injuries from which he never re-
covered.
Howard Hitchcock, who passed over at
66 the other day, was for many years the
presiding genius of Geelong, and amongst
the many memorials of his public spirit are
the Johnstone Park, the Peace Memorial
foyer to the Hitchcock Art Gallery and the
Kitchener Memorial Hospital. For these lie
dipped liberally into liis own pockets as
well as using his powers of persuasion to
induce citizens to dip into theirs. The Great
Ocean-road, whose terrors are braved by
motorists because of the magnificent views
it gives, was another of his conceptions
His mayorship during the war period gained
him the 0.8. E. and C.M.G. He was an
M.L.C. from 1925 to 1931.
A wee minister of the kirk at Traralgon
(Vic.), Rev. W. G. Fitzgerald, who found
one of Tasmania’s best osmiridium fields,
has come out of the pulpit to work a gold
show which he lately discovered in Gipps-
land. But he’s not the first. Alex. Riddel,
for many years one of the best-known mine-
liunters in Australia, had been a Presby-
terian missionary in Africa and later had
charges in N. S. Wales. It was Silverton
which first gave him the other sort of call.
Not many of them are like Dean Backhaus,
of Bendigo. He made a great fortune out
of mining, and enriched the local R.O.
diocese with it. Now and again a parson
will drop out and deliberately take a job in
the mines. For years Broken Hill had a
cultured ex-Congrcgational minister work-
ing underground. And he did very useful
educational work, too.
From Walter C. Barnes: —
In a reference to the death of my brother, Henry
S. Barnes (B. 24/8/’32), it is stated that after the
death of the senior partner the Hereford herd on
Dyraaba (N.S.W.) degenerated. This is not a fact;
the Herefords, as well as the Devon and Shorthorn
herds, were maintained at the same high standard
until circumstances compelled us to relinquish breed-
ing. My late brother was practically in charge of
these herds from the mid-’eighties, and to his
judgment and skill as a breeder their excellence was
in most part due.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
ABBOT WATER FILTERS
PRESSURE AND DRIP TYPE
SEND FOR LEAFLET
AND PRICES.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Fill-er
<
Cylinder
ŵ
I J B "k sd =4fn
Unfiltered water, besides being un-
pleasant, contains many germs, and
during summer the water often con-
tains a lot of rust and slime.
WHY DRINK
DIRTY WATER
when you can have pure and germ-
free water at very little outlay?
BELIEVE IT OR NOT.
The “Abbot” is Germproof and approved
by the Board of Health.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, plus extra years of sendee.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, arid carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by ,
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
May, £ £ £ £
1922.. 103,300 3fp.e. = 92,054 11,246 2,973,729
Loss.
1923.. 106,086 Nil 2,867,643
Share premiums, £lßl2 .. .. 2,869,455
Profit.
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931. . 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
193.2. . 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
The business has solid enough foundations,
strengthened, by interlocking share interests.
The plant is highly efficient, low-sulphur
coking coal is drawn from the co.’s own
pits at Newcastle, while its supplies of iron-
stone from Eyre’s Peninsula and limestone,
from the hills by the Don River, near
Devonport (Tas.), are cheapened by the
backloading of coal. The co. is thus well
equipped to make whatever progress condi-
tions permit. Although the Lang Govern-
ment insisted on 48 hours’ pay for 44 hours’
work, the co. reduced its selling prices, but
the gain to consumers was more than offset
by the sales tax. The big steelworks at
Newcastle slowed down, and earnings
shrank, as public loan money gave out and
the dulness in the construction and other
trades reduced the demand for the co.’s iron
and steel products. The turning point was
reached about half-way through the 12
months covered by the latest accounts, since
when there has been a slight but steady im-
provement in the volume of business.
The whole of the year’s gain of £20,463
in net profit was due to savings in exes.,
to which the new Wilputte coke-ovens, in-
stalled at a cost of over £1,000,000 some 18
months ago, largely contributed. The slip
in. the year’s sales plus products on
hand (£2,038,808) was £320.060. Exes.
(£1,695.208) were got back £338,906, leav-
ing working profit £18,848 better at £343,600.
Interest, divs., etc. (£129,359) fell away
£11,425. Most of the £472,959 that thus
came into the p. and 1. account went in
this way :—-
1929. 1931. 1932.
Depreciation .. .. £417,592 £232,752 £252,590
Office and other exes... 61,854 59,868 44,230
Debenture interest .. 81,094 64,659 47,419
Income tax .. .. 45,710 25,000 25,000
£606,250 £382,279 £369,239
That left the net result at 3.4 p.c. on
capital as against 2.7, 5.4, 12.3. 8.2, 10.8,
11.2 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1925; and for
the third year in succession no div. was
paid.
Since 1927, when the co.’s production
reached its peak, the output of pig-iron,
steel ingots and coke has fallen away by
aproximately one-half :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
P:g iron, tons . . 343,801 187,517 185,680 153,563
Steel ingots, tons 353,682 265,929 210,146 195,188
Coke, tons .. 350,865 129,109 173,475 167,160
Last year, as in the two previous ones,
only one of the three blast furnaces was in
operation. Production of pig-iron fell away
32,117 tons, and steel ingots by 14,95 S tons.
There was an encouraging improvement of
5.013 tons in the outturn of the new 18in.
mill (61,394 tons), and of 12,221 tons in
the rod mill (51,898 tons), but fewer
blooms, billets and heavy beams were pro-
duced. The output of coke has also been
affected by the market for the by-products.
The next table shows how the co. has
financed its great enterprise:—
Paid All Other
May. Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
1918.. £475,402 £2,760,181 £901,700 £801,730
1919.. 2,100,000* 2,255.280* 848,600 742,253
1923.. 2,455.048- 2,867,643 1,962,200 598 39!)
1925. 2,687,708 3,470,964 1,702.300 675 701
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1928.. 2,687,708 3,481,877 1,262,400 784,443
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1930.. 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922.469
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,353
1932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 889,788
* £1,500,000 of reserves capitalised.
According to cable reports an English
Court recently decided that the co/s deben-
tures, redeemable at par by annual drawings,
were payable in London in sterling at the
option of the holder. The co. has appealed
to a higher Court against this judgment.
When the books last closed the floating debt
was well covered by more or less liquids:—
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
1918.. £2,845,400 £113,288 £929,224 £760,323
1919.. 3,365,000 97,388 1,006,924 1,189,724
1923.. 5,698,279 249,546 705,132 943,213
1925.. 5,778,770 225,670 698,517 1,649,309
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
1928.. 5,623,013 363,908 553,275 1,639,826
1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5,532,218 458,224 586,129 1.916,467
1931.. 5,491,632 462,453 514,063 1,787,332
1932.. 5,335,700 441,953 513,669 2,107,787
In addition, the mine, etc., figures at £32,731.
The year’s spring 0 f £320,455 irt liquids was
mainly in respect of book debts (£648,570,
up £206,078) and cash (£348,692, up
£106,374). The old mine at ihc Barrier
having closed down, the co. has joined in
the hunt for gold, but nothing wrnrth while
had turned up at the date of this report.
The market notes the all-round improve-
ment in the position and prices the pound
shares at 19s. 6d. as against 12s. 6d. a year
ago.
Australian Gas Light Cos.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves, serves.
1922.. 182,973 8 p.c. = 173,621 9,352 37,943
1923.. 168,721 8 „ ~ 195.660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ ~ 216,921 22,883 33,887
1925.. 232,918 8 „ „ 237,752 29,053
1926.. 259,169 8 „ „ 261,109 27,113
1927.. 291,913 8 „ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928.. 348,362 8 „ „ 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 8 „ „ 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 8 328.800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 ~ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6J „ „ 256,875 25,077
N. S. Wales ga.s cos. were first harnessed
by statute in 1912, w 7 hen Carmichael’s Act
sought to regulate quality, price and divs.
The experiment broke down, having failed,
amongst other things, to provide for in-
creased costs. Instead of 10 p.c. on old
and 7 p.c. on new capital, the amended
Act of 1918 aimed at standardising the div.
at 8 p.c., and made the question of deprecia-
tion, etc., more explicit. Steadily mounting-
costs —chiefly coal and labor —sent the price
charged for gas by the A.G.L. from 4s. 4d.
per lOOOc.f. in 1918 to ss. 9d. in 1928; the
figure was reduced to ss. 6d. in November,
1931.
In March last the Lang Government’s
Gas and Electricity Act came into force.
Amongst other things, it fixed the div. at
6p.c., and placed the industry under the
control of a Commission of throe —one repre-
senting the Government, one the cos. and
the other the employees. The Commission
—its salaries and other exes, are to be paid
by the cos. —is obliged to fix the price of
gas at a figure which will enable the co.
concerned to pay the div. just mentioned
after providing (1) for interest on loans;
(2) exes., including 3 p.c. (3£ p.c. under the
old Act) of the capital outlay on buildings
and plant for special purposes and depre-
ciation; and (3) a sum for contingencies,
not exceeding onc-lialf year’s div. at the
new. standard rate. Last week the Com-
mission decided that the existing prices
charged for gas in the metropolis and the
Newcastle area should not be disturbed.
Hitherto the standard price of gas was
fixed by a Judge of the Supreme Court. The
Commission, therefore, is a vexatious bur-
den upon the industry, adding to costs at a
time when their reduction is essential.
The A.G.L.’s latest accounts show a slip
of £167,178 in the year’s revenue, due mainly
to the cut in the selling price, already re-
ferred. to, and a shrinkage of 5.7 p.c. in con-
sumption (6227 million cubic feet), making
the slip 16.4. p.c. over the last two years:—
Revenue:- 193 °- 1931 ‘ 1932 -
Gas sales .. £2,092,987 £1,899,046 £1,747,961
By-products .. 229,380 190,028 177,222
Meters, etc. .. 57,317 54,957 51,670
Expenditure:—
Manufacture and
distribution.. 1,535,146 1,269,831 1,182,527
Other charges.. 156,473 195,239 203,772
Interest, etc. .. 160,493 164,957 135,735
The saving of £29,222 in interest, etc., was
due mainly to statutory cuts. The good
work of the management is reflected in the
drop of £87,304 in manufacturing and dis-
tribution charges; they were equal to 3s.
DM. per 1000c.f., or Id. less than in the
previous year, and 54d. lower than the 1929
figure. After sending the statutory 3 p.c.
(£200,171, or £15,835 less than in 1931)
to the fund for special purposes, etc., enough
remained to show 6.1 p.c. on capital. So
reserves were tapped for £2228 to pay
6J p.c.; the extra i p.c. was distributed
before the new Act came into operation.
A vital question is whether the present
statutory allowance for depreciation, etc.,
will prove to be adequate. The co.’s ex-
perience over the period 1918-1930 suggests
that it will. When the hooks closed the un-
expended balance of the special purposes
fund was £294,033, or £35,592 short of the
limit allowed by the Act.
The old resumption suspense account
(£369,997 w'hen the books closed in 1931)
was used to wu-ite down the book value of the
plant, reducing it to £5,918,745 at June
30. Freehold, etc., then figured at £652,515 ;
stocks, £258,206; book debts, etc., £107,403;
Government securities, £335,000; cash,
£272,677. There was £322,613 coming to
trade creditors and £382,504 to depositors.
The debenture debt was £2,100,000 at 64
p.c., equal to a shade over 5 p.c. after allow-
ing for the statutory cut.
The £6 paid shares enjoy an active
market. The price, which had dropped to
£5 before the dismissal of the, Lang Govern-
ment, was £6 11s. 6d. last week-end. The
return at £6 11s. 6d. is 54 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 18,071 8 p.c. = T 0,389. 3,682 29,000
1923.. 27,803 10 „ ~14,609 8,194 34,000
1924.. 40,170 124 „ ~23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 124 ~ „ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ ~27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 ~ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ ~29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44.058 12J ~ „ 37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 ~ ~ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 „ „ 23,908 7,259 93,000
1932.. 21,365 7 „ ~20,920 93,445
Though the trade is reputed to hold well
in lean times, the contraction in national
income and public spending has been . so
great, and there have been such stinging
increases in excise and other levies, that
brewery earnings have suffered along with
the rest. Still, their headlong descent is be-
lieved to have been broken. The co.’s. gross
profit, which was £214,397 in 1926, was
£143,480 last year, when the slip was £4068
as against a drop of £35,159- in the previous
term. Exes. (£122,115, including something
for bad debts, etc.) were £5,734 heavier,
leaving the net result at 7.1 p.c. on capital
compared with 10.4, 13.2, 14.7, 13.5, 15.1
and 17.2 p.c back to 1926 So another
point was knocked off the div., reducing it
to 7 p.c., the final being at the rate of
6 _ p.c. p.a. Nevertheless, investors have
gained confidence • so the pound shares,
which were priced at 18s. 3d. a year ago,
now fetch 235. 3d. on the market. At the
higher figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis, which was the rate paid
for some years prior to 1909.
For over 30 years it was a modest con-
cern, paying moderate divs. on a small capi-
tal—£B3.97s at the close of accounts in
1919. But as Perkins’s slid into the back-
ground the Queensland took the lead, lifting
its capital by par issue?, to £298,850, and
the div. to 10 p.c., which was sweetened
with a bit extra in the fattest years. The
new capital together with a lot of borrowed
money went partly into the co.’s' Brisbane
and Toowoomba breweries, and largely into
hotel freeholds in Southern and thirsty
Western Queensland. Business was also
opened up with the North, where the C.1J.8.
of Melbourne has strong connections. Here
is the position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it:—
1920. 1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital.. 112,500 298,851 298,851 298,851 298,851
Liabilities 31,476 257,141 132,128 125,084 97,379
Fixer! assets 73,643 305,824 298,681 289,844.286 433
Stock . . 44,795 89,790 105,566 92,674 77,055
Book debts 45,804 276,058 167,732 186,338 167,862
Cash, etc. 9,846 5,485 7,910 8,265 8,265
Five years ago the amount coming to credi-
tors and the size .of debtors’ item attracted
attention. However, the board has since
been able to reduce the book value of
debtors’, balances by £108,196. and, with
the assistance of surplus' earnings, etc., lop
£159,762 off the outside debt, reducing it
to £97,379 at June 30. The more or less
liquid surplus (£155,803, including stocks)
was then £6,390 lighter than at the previ-
ous balance. The plant is modern and
efficient.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
« Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1922.. 32,978 8 p.c. = 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923.. 33,740 8 „ „ 16,860 16;880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ . „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 ~ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO .. .. .. 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.ci. = 39,820 16,253 167,’265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.o. = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653 135 715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
Last year the co. put an extra 27,325 bales
under the hammer, and showed £1482 more
profit, thanks to the record clip in N. S.
Wales, where wool averaged £lO 15s. 2d.
per bale as against £ll 6s. 3d. for the previ-
ous year. In Queensland an indifferent
season resulted in a lighter clip, which aver-
aged £lO Ss. 6d. a bale as against £l2 12s. sd.
the year before. Last season’s are the
lowest averages since drought, the bugbear
of the squatter, stalked the land at the be-
ginning of this century. Cattle and sheep
prices fell away about 35 p.c. and 20 p.c.
respectively, and fewer animals passed
through the sale yards:—
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 . . 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 . . 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 . . 117,550 232,501 32,676
1926 . . 179,002 366,643 26,671
1927 .. 188,075 441,919 30,168
1928 .. 175,682 352,199 19,869
1929 .. 189,190 341,399 30,714
1930 .. 182,221 485,958 37,243
1931 .. 186,801 518,125 26,099
1932 .. 214,126 481,507 21,901
The hide-and-skin department and the
machinery section suffered, too. Still, after
setting aside something for contingencies and
the tax-gatherer, enough remained to show
7.S p.c.. on capital as against 7.8, 8.7, 11.9,
34, 35.8. and 15.8 p.c. back to 3926, when
wool fetched about double last year’s aver-
age. So the 6 p.c. div. was repeated, and
the £9362 that remained visibly lifted the
tangible support and protection’ for capita!
to £152,607 —goodwill figures at £41,983.
During the 14 years after the public be-
came interested, in 1910, the div. advanced
from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c. Then expansion of
the business, high prices and a run of good
seasons enabled 30 p.c. to be paid with
comfort for the five years to the .close of
accounts in ’29, when the pound shares: were
fetching 28s. 6d. in the market. But slump
and the debts question (the co. had bor-
rowed heavily to lend) depressed the price
to 14s. 9d. a year ago. The figure had re-
covered to 235. lOd. at last week end,; due
partly to a better outlook generally, though
there is _ some doubt as to how the
season will develop, and partly to the
belief that advances are largely against
wool and other readily realisable products.
The return at 235. lOd. is 5 p.c. on the
basis of a 6 p.c. div., maintenance of which
depends upon the course of seasons and
prices. The backing is 265. Id. in net tan-
gibles.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it. is as follows :
1920. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £soo*ooo
Liabilities . . 461,352 553,490 315,815 292,059
Freeholds .. 160,856 199,965 200,949 200,624
Plant-, etc. . . 35,687 31,656 30,216 25,643
Advances, etc. 505,048 '899,365 732,127 700,866
Investments and
cash .. 21,396 21,865 22,999 21,321
Consignments 1,916 2,969 11,212
Last year the book value of advances- was
reduced, by £81,261, while £22,199 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£291,192, including current accounts and
sales open) and £45,955 was knocked off
the overdraft, reducing it to £867. Alto-
gether the more or less liquid surplus
(£441,340) slipped £940.
Perpetual Trustee Cos. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12J p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922 .. 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148,280
1923 .. 27,468 14,375 3000 10,093 158,373
1924 .. 28.259 15,625 3995 8,639 167,012
1925 .. 30.500 17,500 2500 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £IO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 .. 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 . . 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
Broadly, earnings are derived from (1)
corpus and other commissions in the trustee
and agency section, and (2) returns from
the co.’s own funds. Including the fidelity
reserve (£10,000), there was £241.500
visibly supporting and assisting £200,000
of share capital at June 30. The lot, to-
gether with £5906 coming to creditors, was
invested in freehold, etc., £115,000;
public securities, £124.503; mortgages, etc..
£162,065; cash, mainly on fixed deposit.
£48,449 ; hook debts, £5389. Statutory • and
other cuts in interest and rents, and the
failure of some mortgagors to keep up
regular payments, have resulted in heavy
shrinkage in the returns from these sources.
The same causes, plus the evaporation of
capital values, have also affected commis-
sion earnings. So, despite a net growth of
£1,211,982 in the volume of trusts on the
hooks (it was little more than half the .pre-
vious year’s expansion), the income of this
Australia’s greatest trustee co, fell away
£16,595 last year:—
. Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 ' £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1925 .. 25,637,073 3 01,220 74,774 73.8
1927 . . 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75:9
1929 . . 36,358,047 138,092 104.397 75.6
1930 . . 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 ’ 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
A pleasing feature is the saving of £10,026
in exes., notwithstanding the extra burden
that financial emergency legislation, includ-
ing taxation, placed upon the co. After
(“Wild Gat” continued on page 16- )


LsJ
IL
>
~~x-,ca-k
m
y -.(■■:>
' : a*
m
m>.
w*&?
?i
llfl
*
~**
m*
SSSS;
«V-' : : : : ; x>
vmm.
RSC*
a
i u
/?
M
35*S
?~v
JSijjgaiSxSSSS®
:
M?n
..m
fSfcJSi
111
«
$
mm
m
m
■ M i
m
m
m
x?.
1
*r‘>
t m
• !
1
I!
30%
cr:
SBp:
PS
IT,;
: *
■'•i.x...;•:•:*
iiSS^fes::
v j
m
;-n
»j
EMPLOYED
- TO BRING THE NATION WEALTH -
TO BRING YOU MAMETS PLEASURE
r jHHROUGH the five long years and more before Old
Court is handed to you across bar or counter,
thousands of good Australians find employment in
making the nation’s favourite whisky.
Their employment means more wealth for Australia . * «
increased national prosperity. If only for this reason
Old Court should be the choice of every loyal Australian.
But the popularity of Old Court Whisky is based on
more than patriotism. It is a spirit of matchless
mellowness, rich with the smoothness, flavour and
beneficial properties of full maturity.
iliiii
wwmmm
«gss
1)1 tf ‘fooMf
llftmfuj
Ifeft Purest end the Nation's First Favorite
Wm
111
ifc.
Gt
*x-
Hit#*.*


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.lison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutxtal Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—ADVT,
* * * ■*
WALTER E. CAMERON, B.A. (Cantab.), late
Economic Mining Geologist F.M.S. Govt., formerly
Deputy Chief Geologist Q. Govt. Advice and reports
on mining prospects. South British Building,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney'. Tel: B6431. —Advt.
MELBOURNE SYNDICATE,
UNLIMITED CAPITAL,
Desires handle good Gold Proposition.
Full particulars, plans, etc., to
“SUNRISE,”
C/o MERCANTILE EXCHANGE,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridg.es
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manag
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dibectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. ~ ~ .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
taking- into the reckoning a net addition of
£5388 to the commission reserved account
(£96,964 —it is the unearned portion of the
corpus commission) and a reduction of
£156 in the premises renewals reserve
(£1287), the net result was 11.1 p.c. on
capital as against 12.7, 18.9, 19.8, 19.2,
19.8 and 19.7 p.c. back to 1926. The board,
feeling more satisfied with the outlook, lifted
the final div. t 0 8 p.c. p.a., making 7 p.c.
for the year as against 9 p.c. in 1931 and
a steady 12£ p.c. for the 10 years before
that.
The £lO shares paid to £2 —the remaining
£8 includes £5 callable only in the event: of
liquidation—are priced at 625. 6d. on the
market. At that figure the return is 5.1 p.c.
on an 8 jf.c. div. basis. An 8 p.c. div. on
capital as it now stands would, call for only
3.6 p.c. on total funds (capital and re-
serves combined), and that is leaving returns
from the trustee and agency section, growth
of which can be expected to continue, out
of the reckoning altogether. The net tan-
gible backing is 445. Id. per pound of paid
capital.
Metals
The value of metals, etc., exported from
Australia during the 12 months to June 30
compares with the two preceding years’
figures as follows :
z Year ended June 30
1930. 1931. 1932.
Gold .. .. £26,868,539 £14,391,412 £11,890,054
Lead .. .. 3,453,201 2,419,461 2.267,924
Zinc .. .. 810,496 723,806 697,120
Silver .. 880,240 884,877 753,667
Copper . .. 630,620 485,280 469,003
Tin .. . . 167,863 81,660 124,963
Coal .. .. 346,910 412,723 341,800
Zinc concentrates 931,560 520,720 99,507
The high figures for gold iu 1930 and 1931
are due to shipments of a large part of the
currency reserve to prevent default in in-
terest payments on the public debt abroad.
Actually gold production has expanded
rapidly, and the price of the metal, in Austra-
lian notes, is now more than 70 p.c. above
the statutory price. The slip in last year’s
lead, zinc, silver and copper figures reflects
the drop in prices. The fall in coal exports—
these reached nearly £3,000,000 a decade
ago—is one of the consequences of too
much political interference. Until the end
of June, 1930, the output of zinc concen-
trates at the Barrier was sold under contract
to the British Government, which in a little
over a dozen years had made a loss of more
than £8,000,000 on the deal. Last year’s
shipments were apparently confined to the
requirements of Imperial Smelting Corp.,
which the Barrier cos. have contracted to
supply.
From January to July this year there
was such a persistent fall in the price of
metals that, with the exception of gold, the
figures had got below cost of production.
The following table, which shows average
London prices, illustrates what happened : -
Jan. July. 25/8/’32.
Gold (fine).. £6 0 4 £5 16 0 £5 19 1
Lead.. 15 2 2 9 19 8 11 17 6
Spelter . . 14 12 6 11 15 6 14 2 6
Silver (fine) . 1 7.6 1 4.9 1 7.5
Copper I elect.) 47 1 6 29 10 0 36 15 0
Tin . . .. 140 5 7 125 19 6 145 17 6
After prices had flattened in July, traders
and investors the world over gained a little
confidence, and there was a sharp, welcome
rise in metal and other prices throughout
August. Amongst the factors which have
led to the better feeling have been Lau-
sanne, Ottawa, recent pronouncements in the
U.S.A. with regard to war debts, America’s
credit policy, the strength of sterling, re-
duction of costs and the forcing down of
interest rates, which caused some of the
liquid capital accumulating on deposit to spill
over into the investment market.
To what extent, if any, metal prices are
likely to further improve it is difficult to say.
Large stocks of lead, zinc, copper and tin
still press heavily upon the markets. Until
these stocks are absorbed they will continue
to be a menace to stable prices, notwith-
standing controlled output and other factors
in the various stabilisation schemes adopted
by producers.
An important factor affecting operations
at the Barrier is the reduction of 12s. 6d.
per week in the basic wage in N. S. Wales.
At the end of 1930 the cos. and the Unions
agreed that the minimum wage should be
the declared rate for the State j)lus 7s. Gd.
a week; but, should the declared rate fall
below £4 2s. 6d., the Unions may give two
months’ notice of the termination of the
agreement. On the other hand, the cos.
reserved the right to give two months’ notice
of suspension if lead fell below £ls per ton ;
that was before the big spring in exchange
early in 1931. Still, allowing„for the wage
cut, and assuming the Unions accept the
cut, very meagre profits need be looked for
from the mining of lead-zinc ores until metal
prices further improve.
Uncle Samuel wasn’t quite the gold-
glutton he looked a year or two ago. In
nine months from September 1, 1931, to the
end of May, 1932, over 1500 million dollars"
worth of gold was withdrawn from the U.S.;
and over 1200 million dollars of it went to
Europe—about two-thirds of it to Franco.
Most of this gold, it is quite obvious, was
owned by foreigners, who had shipped it to
America for safety, just as, a few years
before, they had held it in England. Still,
Uncle continues to have more than his fair
share—very nearly 4000 million dollars’
worth, the least he has had since 1923. but
just upon twice as much as he used to have
before the war.
* $ * *
“Fume’’: An interesting development in
Canada has been the profitable recovery of
zinc and lead from lead blast-furnace slag
by fuming. In 1931 the Consolidated Smelt-
ing and Refining Cos. recovered 18,900 tons
of zinc, 3400 tons of lead, and £IO,OOO worth
of gold and silver in the slag retreatment
plant. The authorities at Port Pirie Smelters
(S. Aus.) are said to be investigating the
process. When in full blast, the Pirie
Smelters produce 200,000 tons of lead annu-
ally, while about 65 tons of slag, containing
17 p.c. zinc and 2 p.c. lead, are made per
100 tons of lead. Thus about 22,000 tons of
zinc and 2700 tons of lead, worth at to-day’s
prices about £300,000, are still being lost
annually iu the slag, notwithstanding the
remarkable technical progress that has been
made at the smelters. In addition to present
slag production, there is an accumulation of
millions of tons of slag available, for treat-
ment. Profitable recovery of the metals
therein would mean better returns to the
Barrier cos.
Hopes long deferred concerning the re-
covery of the gold that is supposed to line
the beds of the Kawarau, Shotover and
Molyneux rivers in Southland (M.L.) are
being- revived. In recent months the Kaw-
arau was dammed and lower levels exposed
than had ever previously been made acces-
sible. Unemployed workers were granted
permission to prospect, and had very fail-
success, something over 600 oz. being won in
a few weeks. A director of the reorganised
Ivawarau Cos., H. iCredington, of Melbourne,
who represents Australian shareholders on
the board, states that Prof. Hornell, the
Swedish scientist employed by the M.L. Gov-
ernment to advise concerning the failure of
the Arapuni dam, has been consulted, and
has recommended the erection of another
dam, which should lay bare virgin ground.
The ground to which prospectors recently
had access was worked over by miners 60
years ago.
Several Maoriland gold producers showed
good returns last month. Two sluicing cos.,
King Solomon and Mahakipawa, got 3590 z.
and 1630 z. respectively, while Okarito dredged
up 80oz. Alexander Mines (Reefton) crushed
468 tons for 5390 z. of gold, and a further
1750 z. came from 322 tons of sands. Black-
water, another Reefton show, got 1887 oz. plus
1770 z. from concentrates; the net return
was £ll4l, with gold at standard values.
For the period ended July 23, comprising 23
crushing days, Waihi recovered 6110 oz. of
gold and 40,0280 z. of silver from 18.984 tons
of stone. The return includes 9170 z. of
gold and 5088 oz. of silver from the Grand
Junction area.
* * * *
Alluvial Gold, Ltd., the recent offshoot of
Alluvial Tin, has lost no time in the hunt.
Its engineering staff is to make a thorough
prospect of about 1440 acres, stretching for
12J miles along the Lower Watut, New
Guinea, where the alluvial extends for about
7-J chains on either side of the river. If
values prove to be good enough, a sub-
sidiary will be formed to work the area,
which at present belongs to Bulolo Gold
Deposits, Ltd., an Adelaide concern.
“Kokopo”: Good reports keep coming to
Rabaul about the Kupei goldfield on the
north-west of Bougainville Island, northern
Solomons —it is included in Mandated New
Guinea. The field is about six hours’ walk
from the Government station at Kieta, and
some 4000 ft. above sea level. Though a con-
siderable amount of development has been
done on the big reef formation, the size of
the hillside reef has not yet been proved.
The stone is said to assay well, but no
details are to hand.
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), crushed
its first parcel of 49 tons from the Coolum
reef on the Extended lease for 920 z. lOdwt.
of bullion, valued at a little over £3OO. The
Coolum stone is the best on the field, and
the crushing and power plant is to bo
enlarged to deal with it. The battery is
working two shifts; £ISOO worth of gold
and silver has been won in the last five
weeks.
In the Gympie (Q.) district the old Louisa
mine has becu reopened, and some good
crushings arc anticipated. The Glastonbury
field is also receiving attention, but nothing
much has been reported. On the old New
Dawn lease, about four miles from Gympie.
a recent crushing of 30ewt. of stone returned
7oz. 19dwt. of smelted gold. From 1867,
when gold was first discovered at Gympie
to the end of 1931 the district has yielded
V“ : >; ) 2. / 186 finc oz. of gold, valued at over
At Murphy’s Creek, near Toowoomba
(Q.), a eopper-lead ore-body, first discovered
over 45 years ago, is being explored again.
High gold values have been met along the
outcrop, which can be traced for over a
mile.
At the Aberfoyle tin-wolfram property
near Avoea (Tas.), the mill, which has a
capacity of 400 tons of ore weekly, has been
completed, and crushing will commence
shortly. A small profit is expected with tin
at £l2O, London. The ore contains 1.2 p.c.
tin and .13 p.c. tungstic acid, both recover-
able percentages. The main shaft, which has
been sunk to a depth of 135 ft., passed through
two veins, and a crosscut from the level pene-
trated a 33in. vein at 26ft. and another,
22in. wide, at 50ft. from the shaft. These
veins have been driven on for over 800 ft.
with satisfactory results.
Tongkah Compound, a Melbourne concern
which has been dredging up tin in Malaya for
the last 22 years, has followed the example
of Alluvial Tin and turned its attention
to gold. The co. (it, has four subsidiaries
in Malaya) has taken a 12 months’ option
over 63 acres along the line of a lode at
Grosmount (W.A.). The idea is to consoli-
date this with 12,3 acres already pegged.
Prospecting and development are to begin at
once, and if results are satisfactory there
is talk of a £325,000 concern being floated
to handle the property. The leaseholders
will be permitted to work the ground during
the currency of the option, and will receive
a share interest in any co. formed.
The rise in Wiluna shares is due to im-
proved gold values in East lode and No. 2
West lode at the 800 ft. level, where assays
had been a bit on the low side. Also develop-
ments from the surface well, north of the
main workings, have been satisfactory. The
aim now is to get the mill duty up to 100
per cent, efficiency. This is expected to
follow the installation of new oil-engines,
.scheduled to be at work next January.
Although more than If million tons of its
huge heap of residues remains to be treated,
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) is negotiating for
the right to extract gold on a profit-sharing
basis from a big pile elsewhere. Since the
rise in the price of gold, the co. has been
picking and choosing and making profits
above original estimates. Its finances are
still snug, notwithstanding that l.s. per
share was returned to scripholders in June.
Princess Royal is putting up a fair per-
formance with its new show at Westonia.
Cash in hand, together with expected profit
from ore in sight, has raised hopes of an
early div. Sons of Gwalia management,
which has been keeping an eye on Princess
Royal’s affairs recently, is responsible for
the improved outlook. P.R. had a mill work-
ing at Norseman when early Kalgoorlie con-
cerns were surface-scratching.
Option-hunting in W.A. by cos. in the
Eastern States with little cash and some
calling power continues. While preference
is shown for areas in the Boulder belt,
outside shows are not forgotten. Even the
deluged Westonia field is to be given a run;
also the Cornishman, at Southern Cross.
The last-named mine shows promise; several
prospectors have done rvell out of it, but
water has beaten t’i m all.
The Mt. Isa and New Guinea Goldfields
Cos. have both lifted the restriction on trans-
fer of shares from their Australian to their
London registers.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is Anglo-Persian Oil a British co.?
Is British Government interested? Paid
capital? (2) Is Shell Go. a British concern?
Is the Government interested? In what
way is this co. connected with Royal Dutch
Cos.? Paid capital? (3) Does Dutch royal
family hold most of the shares in Dutch
group? —lß66.
(1) Yes; the co. was registered in Lon-
don in 1909 to take over petroleum pros-
pecting rights throughout Persia. Paid,
capital is now £26.112,745 in 7.228,859 first
8 p.c. and 5,459,886 second 9 p.c. prefs.,
both cumulative, and 13,425,000 ords.
British Government holds 7,500,000 ords.
and 1000 first prefs., and appoints two
directors. (2) Yes; but cannot say whether
British Government is interested. The
Shell Transport and Trading Cos. was regis-
tered in London in 1897 to trade in oils in
India, China and Japan. It amalgamated
with Royal Dutch Petroleum in 1907, when
both became holding cos., having passed
most of their assets to two new concerns
-—Anglo-Saxon Petroleum (paid capital
£.25 000,000), and Bataafsohe Petroleum
(paid capital 300,000.000 Dutch florins).
In each of these the Shell Cos. holds 40 p.c.
of the capital and the Royal Dutch Cos. the
other 60 p.c. Shell Co.’s paid capital is
£34.321,361 in 200,000 first 5 p.c. and
10,000,000 second 7 p.c. prefs. and 24,121,361
ords. (3) Cannot say.
What should he done to obtain the most
efficient precipitation of gold from cyanide
solution by means of sine dust? — 1888.
The solution must be free as possible from
entrained air. For this reason, in the modern
Merril-Crowe system, a vacuum pump is
used to de-aerate the solution before it is
passed to the zinc boxes. De-aeration can
also be carried out in a simple and cheap
way by allowing the solution to percolate
through a 6in. bed of pyritic sand in a circu-
lar vat. A vat 20ft. in diameter can handle
44 tons of solution per 24 hours; several
vats in series may be used if desired. The
sediment collecting on the sand is removed
weekly, and the sand replaced every throe
months.
brief answers.
,T.W.: A mine ultimately becomes a hole
in the ground; you should, therefore, treat part of
your dividends as return of capital. Shows worth
consideration are Mt. Coolon, Bulolo, New Misima,
Lake View and Star, Wiluna, Boulder Perseverence,
Sons of Gwalia. At the moment they all appear to
be fully priced; much depends upon what happens
in connection with exchange. .. .J.S.: (1) No; but
co is trying to raise fresh capital in England to
give the scheme another trial. (2) Very doubtful.
. ...H.J.T.: Lake View and Wiluna. B.H. Prop,
has taken an option over North lvalgurli. Others
worth considering are Mt. Coolon, Bulolo and New
Misima. .. .Mercy Me: (1) Don’t know Holden’s
debentures. If you mean General Motors-Holden’s
6 p.c. cum. prefs., they were at 9s. 6d. in
the market last week-end. At June 30, 1931, they
were covered by £2 14s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Impossible to say when divs. will be resumed; co.’s
finances are comfortable enough; hang on if you
can. (2) Peters (Vic.) pound shares paid to 8s.
are at 2s. 8d. in the market. Co. registered a
trading loss of £18,785 for year to June 30, 1931.
Cover was then 3s. 6d. per share in net tangibles,
mainly plant, worth what it can earn. Prospects
not bright. .. .A.B.: You have missed the ’bus.
Bank of N. S. Wales, Mercantile Mutual Insurance,
Morris Hedstrom and Walter Reid and Co. are
worth considering. .. .G.T.H.The largest and most
promising show on the Golden Mile (W.A.). Paid
capital £540,000 in 4s. shares, which were priced
at 18s. 6d. on the market last ■vyeek-end... .F.W.E.:
Accumulated at 34 p.c. compound interest £8 p.a.
would amount to £507 12s. in 34 years, and to
approximately £995 in 49 years... .W.A.H.: (1)
In the past the co. has struck oil in commercial
quantities, but the flows petered out before any-
thing much in the way of profits was won. It has
prospecting rights in the Taranaki, Hawke’s Bay
and Westland Provinces, owns practically all the
shares in the Gisborne, Waitangi and Waiapu cos.,
and is interested in the M.oturoa and New Plymouth
cos. (2) There are 471,561 shaies of 30s. each
paid to 24s. 6d. (3) It is a no liability co. ; you
could, therefore, forfeit the shares or perhaps sell
them if you did not wish to nay calls.... A.S.:
Melbourne—Mole, Hamilton and Derham ; Blake and
Rigall. Sydney—Pigott, Stinson, MacGregor and
Palmer; Minter, Simpson and Co G.K.: No;
failure to complete the contract means forfeiture
of what you have already paid. .. .Tarrie: The pro-
position is held up for want of capital; impossible
to say when a start is likely to be made. . . .C.C.:
Mount Coolon for preference. Others worth con-
sidering are New Misima and Bulolo. .. .J.H.: Com-
municate with Titanium Products Co., Melbourne.
When you are actually producing, get in touch with
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney....
S.H.: Try James Hardie and Co., corner York and
Barrack streets, Sydney; Wunderlich, Ltd., Baptist-
street, Redfern. When you are producing regularly,
also try Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
D.L.M.O.: The £57 16s. lid., being balance in
your favor at the bank, is an asset and should be
included as such in the inventory. Debit Cash
Account, credit Capital Account.... J.T.: An article
appeared in the “Chemical, Engineering and Mining
Review” for August 5, 1932, entitled “Cyaniding of
Tailings,” which will furnish you with the informa-
tion required.


RECONDITIONED MINING MACHINERY
Our stock of second-hand reconditioned machinery is the largest in the Commonwealth, our warehouse and yards covering over five acres. Every
machine, whatever its purpose, is thoroughly overhauled in our workshops under supervision of our own engineers, all machines being guaranteed
to be in good running order. Over 50 years’ experience in handling general and mining plant enable us to give t e comp etest a vice a out
any proposed equipment.
SOME OF OUR SPECIAL-MINING PLANT—
STEAM WINCHES.
Double 6in. to 12in. cylinders.
WINDING ENGINES.
First motion up to 18in. cylinders.
ELECTRIC-DRIVEN WINDERS.
Six-feet diameter drums.
WINDING GEARS. Various sizes.
BATTERIES.
One Head, 10001 b. shank.
Four Head, 6501 b. shanks.
Five Head, 7501 b. shanks.
Five Head, 12501 b. shanks.
Ten Head, 12001 b. shanks.
Ten Head, 10001 b. shanks.
Ten Head, 12001 b. shanks.
ẁ
ROCKBREAKERS.
Rotary No. 2 and No. 4.
JAWBREAKERS.
From 6x6 up to 20 x 12.
TUBE MILLS.
10ft. x sft. and 16ft. x 4ft. 2in.
HUNTINGTON MILLS.
Two with pans sft, diameter.
CONCENTRATING TABLES.
Wilfley, Card and Phoenix Weir.
Also small-size prospecting tables.
JIGS.
Two and three compartments.
AIR COMPRESSORS.
Steam-driven "‘lngersoll,” 12in.,
14in., 16in. and 18in. cylinders.
Thompson’s cross compound, 1200 ft.
capacity. Belt-driven, 6in., and
1 2in. cylinders.
AIR RECEIVERS. x
6ft. x l ft. 6in., with wide range
of sizes to 30ft. x 6ft. 6in.
POPPET LEGS.
Wood and Steel up to 75ft. high,
with pithead pulleys, Middleton hooks
and disengaging rings.
ROCKDRILL SHARPENER.
“Ingersoll Model 33 (almost new).
PUMPING PLANTS.
Steam sinking, Pumping Gears and
Bobs for Cornish lifts.
SLUICING PLANTS.
9in., II in. and 1 5in. S.H. Nozzles.
Also new, all sizes from 4in. diam.
upwards.
Large stocks sluicing pipes, various
sizes to 26in. diameter.
DREDGES.
Three bucket dredges, with buckets
5ft., 6£ft. and 8ft. capacity.
BLOWERS.
Roots belt- and steam-driven up to
12in. outlet. Also Baker pressure-
blower, 22in. outlet.
ẃ
9 Large stocks battery shoes and dies, jackhammer drills, gold scales, assay balances, rails,
trucks, cages, tanks, wire ropes, air- and water-piping and all sundry equipment or
mining purposes.
SPECIAL LINES.
25,000ft. 6in. screwed and socketed piping in good condition.
One mile electric cable, 7/14, like new, and electric motors.
Crude Oil Engines, 30, 40, 50, 85 H.P.
Green’s Economisers, 680 tubes in 120- and 160-tube units.
This little Pump is most
useful for prospecting
shafts, and can lift up
to 2000 gallons per
hour.
Also STEAM POWER PLANTS, ELECTRICAL PLANT, SUCTION GAS AND OIL ENGINES, LOCOMOTIVES,
BELT CONVEYORS, ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANTS, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS, PORTABLE STEAM AND OIL
ENGINES, and all classes of sound second-hand machinery.
New Batteries, one, two or three
heads—2so-500lb. shanks.
ESTABLISHED
OVER 50 YEARS.
For further details, send inquiries to
MILLER & GO. (machinery) Pty. Ltd.
27 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
BRANCH ADDRESS:
10 Forest Street, Bendigo
Victoria.
The window is beautiful and the screen is convenient, because it s
Rolscreened. A touch of the finger and it is up and out of the way, stored
for a day or a season.
ikat mils up like
B.R.G. Rolscreens give 10 to 20
per cent, more light than do the
old-fashioned, wooden-framed wire
screens. . . .without destroying that
harmony of line and proportion
which architects are so careful to
build into the modern home.
G£2l
9 They roll up automatically at a touch of the fingers, as
easily as a window shade —there when , you want them,
out of the way when you don't.
# They need not be taken down for access to awnings,
flower boxes or for window washing. Require no storing,
no messy dusting, painting and repairing. Never in the
way for cleaning tasks.
4P They do riot collect dirt—to be beaten against panes
by rain or to soil delicate breeze-blown curtains.
fll They are lovely in appearance—obviate the unsight-
liness and light obstruction inevitable with wide wooden-
framed wire screens. Tour curtains are not hidden and
can be admired from without as well as within your home.
They do not rust or break into holes; they do not sag
or bag/even from accidental blows.
They are thoroughly insect tight with their mesh
fastened in securely at top and bottom and snugly locked
into close-fitting guides at the sides.
Rolscreens give you all these amazing advantages with
any size or type of,window—in new home or old.
The cost of B.R.G. Rolscreens compares favorably with
that of good-quality wood screens which require special
hardware. There is no cost of storing, painting or
repairing.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, 0.1., 14 SPRING ST., SIDNEY.
For cofnmlete details and prices, call on or write to — .
MELBOURNE: Collin & Co. Pty., Ltd. ADELAIDE: Elder Smith& Co., Li “ited. PERTH: TbnStructuralj^ng- Co, of W A.,
Limited. SYDNEY: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd. BRISBANE: Dyne and Co., Ltd. NEW ZEALAND. Wellington uertcsune s go.
John Duthie & Co., Ltd. Dunedin —Donald Stuart & Co.
B.R.G. Rolscreens allow any window
its fullest effect, both from the inside
and outside with their inconspicuous
guides at the sides; a narrow bottom
rail; an ingenious spring roller,
hidden in a compact housing, insur-
ing the maximum of light. Serving
their real purpose, to keep a house
thoroughly insect-proof, at the same
time adding a beauty and con-
venience never before obtainable.
1
So Simple and Easy to Operate!
Rolscreens add to the smart, slender
lines of casement windows without
spoiling the effect of attractive
curtains.
See Side r'Smith anxl Co. U'tets. Q)LSplcijV~. ■■■■
STAND U°. 85 JtuLnstriaL CHtUL at ADELAIDE SHOW


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Saint Joan”
Her Majesty's , “Bitter Sweet”
State •. Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King's “Dr. Pygmalion”
State Movies and Talkies
“M.G.S.” consults “Dr. Pygmalion” :
If; Prof. Osborne wants to see pathology
depicted on the stage he ought to go and
lock at Harrison Owen’s play at the King’s,
Melbourne. He will see it there in plenty.
Yet “Dr. P.” is a play that no censor would
dream of banning; it observes all the con-
ventional proprieties. Actually the Aus-
tralian dramatist has written a bible of
decadence as interesting and symptomatic in
its way as Somerset Maugham’s “Our
Betters.” What a crew they are ! All deca-
dents. Women suffering from their husbands,
the husbands enslaved to the getting-
on-in-the-world convention, and a do-ctor
who affects to cure the neuroses of the
women by homoeopathic doses of his own
neurasthenia. He gives his libido its outlet
by surrounding himself with these neurotic
women, whom he stimulates to sexual interest
in himself while keeping them at a distance,
like the Alexandrian voluptuaries who used
to keep virgins in their houses. Everybody
in the play has sold out on life in one way
and another. The women have sold out on
love, and take their doses of sex like cock-
tails ; the men have sold out on society, and
become mere money-grubbers. They value
their-wives as hoardings on which to adver-
tise the size of their incomes in the shape
of expensive dresses; and the women are
satisfied with being hoardings provided they
can have an occasional flirtation. The
elderly doctor, Castairs, has sold out on
medical science, and his younger colleague,
Garnett, has sold out on his intelligence, and
has become that most dangerous of quacks,
a man who knows enough of psychology to
tamper with patients’ complexes.
Somebody has said that in all ages
a few people have been progressive, a
few stationary, while the majority are
deteriorating. The people in Owen’s play
have deteriorated so much that they have
gone rotten, the stench of their corruption
being concealed in elegant manners, exquisite
clothing, wit, and the chatter of the pseudo-
intellectual. There are thousands of these folk
rotting in heaps along the Mediterranean lit-
toral, a t Cannes, Mentone, Monte Carlo and
such places. When the Prince of Wales comes
out on the verandah of his hotel in a scarlet
shirt and a straw boater they all come out
in scarlet shirts and straw boaters. That
is the measure of their self-respect. They
belong to important clubs, but they have
lost caste as human beings—without knowing
it. They are parasites on life without know-
ing it. They are parasitic in their thoughts
even. There isn’t an original idea in the'
lot of them, despite 'their cleverness. Have
you ever seen a Japanese goldfish in a bowl
with its ridiculously exaggerated tail bred
iiito it by human-breeders? These people
look as silly and vulgar. They are products,
not -of .life, but of conventions about it. Not
a real emotion in the lot, but a lot of
sniggering at real emotion. You feel you
could create the lot of them by ectogenesis
in a laboratory, with the aid of fashion-
plates.
The foregoing is not a criticism of the play
as a work of art. A playwright is entitled
to select what subject-matter he chooses.
You may not like, his people any more than
you like pythons, but if he has depicted them
truthfully, without reservations, that is all
that matters. Up to a point Owen has done
his job skilfully. But he misses painting a
truthful picture of a futile, ‘ugly and vulgar
.society, because lie sentimentalises about the
people in it. In other words, he accepts
their' values. Even his young Dr. Garnett,
who has. sufficient vitality to create an aroma
around him which attracts the sex-starved
women who are his patients, like thirsty cattle
round a fenced-in waterliole, collapses in the
end into a mixture of cynic and sentimental
martyr to conventional morality—therefore,
himself a neurasthenic. Of course people do
collapse in that way, but Dr. Garnett’s,col-
lapse,, is for the purpose of making a box-
office triumph. And isn’t the method right?
Read the press notices. One feels the sen-
timentalism is in the playwright rather than
in his characters. When he is confronted by
the possibility of a real emotion all he can
think to do is to be funny about it.
The play is not a comedy. It is tragic.
But modern writers ' cannot afford to be
tragic for fear of being thought dull, and
Owen never, allows himself to be dull. He
would’ have made “King Lear” into “King
Leer.” His wit and humor never flag even
in the face of the most tragical situations,
and the most deliberately funny moment in
the play is naturally the most tragic. The
doctor has told the usual neurotic woman
that he fell in love with her years ago when
he saw her by accident in Egypt. He sends
her to his sanatorium, where she feels her
first vital emotion for years and falls in love
with him. He sends her back to the hus-
band she hates. “The audience laughed
merrily,” says the “Age.” “The play proved
very much to the taste of the large audience,”
says Melbourne “Sun.” And so it ought to.
It is extremely well acted. Margaret Raw-
lings gives an exceedingly good interpreta-
tion of the neurasthenic Lucy Hayfion, and
looks the part of Mr. Haydon’s hoarding to
perfection.
Sydney’s Music Week, which conies along
at intervals of a year or so, usually
has an imported jewel in the forefront of its
tiara, but this year, the country being tem-
porarily denuded of ’offskys and ’itskys, John
Brownlee came up from the south and sup-
plied the period with its indispensable per-
former of international repute. The road
from the singer’s birthplace, Geelong, to
Sydney Town Hall wound through London
and Paris, and took nine years to travel. It
was probably a very hard road, but Browm
lee shows very little trace of its rigors.. His
platform manner is reminiscent of that of
John McCormack —easy, confident and
genial. He gives each of the four quarters
of the house a deep bow and a dazzling smile.
grips his left wrist’s sleeve-link firmly in his
right thumb and forefinger, and sends forth
rotund notes, as rich as black velvet. Brown-
lee’s programme on Saturday night was
a strange potpourri. It opened with the
simple dignity of Handel’s quietest style,
went on to the fervent emotion of the “Vision
Fugitive,” from Massenet’s “Herodiade,” and
then took a corner into the neatly-trimmed
classicism of the “Don Giovanni” Serenade.
Scliupiann’s “Ich Grolle Niclit” and “Du
Bist wic einc Bluine” were bracketed with
Richard Strauss’s “Zueignung,” and the “Erl
King's” tempest and fury came near the
end of the procession. Encore numbers,
which were numerous, were mostly of the
serio-comic ballad order and greatly delighted
the audience, which was not quite so respon-
sive to more ambitious music. In the Mas-
senet number, and in the duet from “Rigo-
letto” in which Gilda tells papa of her
carryings-on with the Duke, sung with Rita
Miller, Mr. Brownlee gave a reason for his
operatic successes, and showed that it is pos-
sible to portray strong emotion without
going right off into the deep end.
Miss Rita Miller, is a soprano who uses
her voice cleverly and exhibits considerable
grace, but it is impossible to believe that
she believes, even for a moment, the words
she is singing. In her lighter numbers this
doesn’t matter, and these offerings were
delectable. Roy Shepherd, the pianist
of the combination, is a tasteful accom-
panist, and he plays Schumann and Chopin
with rare discrimination. On the whole an
enjoyable recital, though it didn’t exhibit
Brownlee at his best. His art is operatic,
and the concert stage is not the most favor-
able place for its exposition.
* ¥ *
The N. S. Wales Postal Institute Drama-
tic Club’s initial production was an uneven
affair, but it was blessed by the appreciation
of an audience which couldn’t have been
more wildly enthusiastic had Henry Irving
and Sara Bernhardt been resurrected, along
with Burbage and Mrs. Siddons, to strut
the stage. The piece was “The Whole Town’s
Talking,” by John Emerson and Anita Loos.
W. H. Gibson filled the role of a small-town
paint-manufacturier whose crazy ideas for
adjusting other people’s love affairs involve
them in heaps of trouble. .T. Ryan was the
imaginative one’s business partner. Neither
THE BROWNLEE CO., AT SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
(Left to right) : Roy Shepherd, John Brownlee, Rita Miller.
gave remarkable characterisations. Kathi Lee,
as a temperamental movie actress, succeeded
in looking and acting - her part better than any
one else in the cast. Rita Rowe, as the
manufacturer’s wife, addressed all her re-
marks to the audience. Alma Hardy was
spirited as the daughter of the • household,
and J. A. M. Small and R. Stein, in subsi-
diary roles, were slightly more convincing
than some of the others. •
%
Beatrice Tange, who won her first laurels
as a pianist in t Leipzig and London,, and
then returned to her native Sydney, gives a
recital about once a year, proving on each
occasion that the interim has been spent in
intelligent study. At the Savoy Theatre,
Sydney, last week, she played the Bach
Chromatic Fantasia, Liszt’s “Gnomenreigen,”
Schumann’s G Minor Sonata and pieces
by Scriabinc, York Bowen and Suk. When,
this Showman last previously heard Miss
Tange her playing was notable for power. To
this have been added delicacy and a finer
faculty of interpretation, raising the hope
that there is here one who may become a
worthy successor to Carreno. Miss Tange’s
Schumann playing, in especial, emphasises
the manner in which her style has developed.
% % #
At Melb. Royal opera has entered the home
stretch with the winning-post only a couple
of weeks in the distance. Some of the early
favorites have dropped out of the field and
been taken back to the stables, after giving
their backers a good run for their money.
Some of the starters hardly lasted a couple
of furlongs, but. “Faust,” one of the earliest
off the mark, is still struggling along in the
forward cluster. On Saturday afternoon
this popular performer had a change of
riders, the local Maisie Ramsay taking the
reins from Cesarina Valobra. Miss Ramsay
gave Marguerite a well-trained voice of con-
siderable range and purity, but was minus
the spur of feeling. Still, it can be said
in extenuation that Gounod’s music has very
little more characterisation than Miss Ram-
say’s acting.
“La Traviata” drew to the front on Satur-
day evening. This old stager from the Verdi
stud has so few points in its favor that its
inclusion can only be condoned on the assump-
tion that “Lohengrin,” a horse of German
parentage, which had been nominated earlier,
had gone lame or been poisoned or kidnapped
or something; because on musical form there
is no comparison between them, the one being
a good strong stayer over a three-hour course
and the other being given to fits of depres-
sion, accompanied by violent weeping. The
performance on Saturday was distinguished
by the usual sterling Granforte presentation
of papa Germont, while Carlo Alfieri made
son Alfredo a present of a voice that is
curiously lifeless in the lower register, but
kindles the higher its soars. In the last
act, set in Violetta’s exquisitely-furnished
bedroom, Miss Valobra did not allow the
knowledge that she was about to die of con-
sumption to lower her standards of voice
production.
# * *
That merry opera “Don Pasquale,” at
Melb. Royal, gave Michele Fiore an oppor-
tunity to exhibit his gifts as a comedian in
the name-r6le. Lina Paliughi was Norina
and Apollo Granforte the Dr. Malatesta.
Primo Montenari was Ernesto and Wando
Aldrovandi waved the baton.
* * *
Opposite the Royal in Bourke-street, where
the groans of murdered lovers, the screams of
their suiciding mistresses, the thud of the
executioner’s axe and the rattle of firing
parties are heard nightly, the small American
Jack Russell, in the gujse of a little dai’kie,
who is offered £25 by a surgeon to bodysnatch
a corpse from a graveyard, is terrifying large
audiences into fits at slight expense to the
Tivbli management. the fits of
terror are succeeded by fits of laughter, for
the diminutive comedian knows how to get
an effect without undue expenditure of effort.
This week the Ole Time Minstrels have been
added to the entertainment, whose worth is
sufficiently well recognised by the public to
relieve the management from immediate
anxiety. •
V ¥ ?•
The best music in Melbourne on Saturday
night was at the Town H'all, where Fritz
Hart gave his second symphonic concert of
the season under municipal auspices. The
big item was the Concerto in D major for
violin and orchestra, Op. 61, of Beethoven,
Elise Steele being the soloist. Miss Steele
appeared to be nervous, as well she might be
in face of a work of this magnitude, but she
gained confidence, and if she failed to bring
out all the lyric quality of the conversation
between the fiddle and the orchestra in the
slow movement, she held her own in the final
rondo. The Haydn symphony in E flat
major was sheer joy from start to finish
and the orchestra did nothing to throw a
cloud over its gaiety; the same may be said
regarding the Romance in Cof Mozart. A
fantasy for orchestra by Theodora Suther-
land, one of the professor’s pupils, was very
Hart-like, just as the painting of Bernard
Hall’s young lady pupils is very IT'ali-
like, unconscious flattery being a strong-
feminine attribute. At one shilling and two
the hall was less than half-full, though three
years ago when the series was started the
barriers were rushed to such an extent that
the promoters were threatened with prosecu-
tion for, overcrowding. Yet the programmes
are as good as ever, the orchestra is playing
better and the conductor’s talents have been
garlanded by Honolulu with an invitation to
direct that city’s annual festival of music,
from which he returned blushing under fresh
honors.
* * *
When the Italian forces have evacuated
Melb. Royal and the mounds of operatic
corpses have been swept away J.C.W.’s
Gilsullivan co. will occupy the stage. “The
Sorcerer” probably will be added to the
repertoire.
Poverty Point
Harrison Owen: The receipt of a
paragraph bv “Bowbell” (B. IS/G/’S^)
announcing that my comedies “The Happy
Husband” and “Doctor Pygmalion” have
won “considerable success” in this part of the
world left my native vanity unimpaired. But
why should “Bowbell” associate this great
and glorious truth with ajdnimping lie to the
effect that I “tried a play with an Austra-
lian setting. ‘Bush Fire,’ on London last
year, but failed to score”? I beg to state:
(a) No play of mine has been produced
between. The Happy Husband” and “Doctor
Pygmalion ; ( b ) not being entirely devoid
ot commercial acumen, I have never
attempted a play with an Australian setting •
(f) lf a » la y called “Bush Fire” (or any
play with an Australian setting, bar Bert
Barleys venture with '“On Our Selection”
11 years ago) has been produced in the West
Fuid in the past dozen years it has somehow
managed to escape my attention, and that of
a number of others financially interested in
things, theatrical and sentimentally inter-
ested in things Australian.
“S.T.S.” ; I had a message from the club
lately, "Cable for you from London,” and
asked to have it opened. Then the steward
read out, in an awe-struck tone, “Post-
mortem permission refused.” The “Post
Mortem” referred to was Noel Coward’s new
play, of which the Adelaide Repertory
Theatre had hoped to give a first-in-Australia
performance. A gloomy and bitter drama,
utterly unlike Coward’s other work, it deals
with a young Englishman, killed in France,
with a dying vision, (in several scenes) of
London .to-day, showing how wasted was all
the sacrifice of the war years.
“Droffats”: The wave of enthusiasm for
amateur theatricals has reached Singleton
(N.S.W.) and. engulfed the local Diggers.
They put on “Journey’s End” and made a
very workmanlike job of it. For once in a
way the play was given with the military
details dead right.
“Tiki”: Maoriland has been suffering
under a. visitation of snowstorms, unprece-
dented in severity. Perhaps that explains
why an issue of the “Wanganui Chronicle,”
devoted mostly to accounts of the Eskimo
hardships ,of the inhabitants, contains also
an enthusiastic advance notice for what the
paper describes as “undoubtedly one of the
most exquisite operas Australia has enjoyed
for many a day—‘Blue Noses.’ ” The name
of the piece is mentioned several times and
tne “noses” are insisted on throughout.
“L.H'.P.”: “S. M. Herald,” whose critic
saw “Saint Joan“ abroad :
The only feature of the London production which
one misses is the special front-drop.
This is a reminder that it is a long time
since Sydney theatres used painted drop
curtains. They have gong into limbo with
the harlequinade and nigger minstrels. But
those old curtains, intended to interest
audiences between the acts, when painted
by men like George Gordon, John Hennings
and others were works of art. The old
Her Majesty’s had a beautiful view of
Windsor Castle from the Thames —the
same thing was done for a dozen other
theatres throughout Australasia—and the
Cri. had Captain Cook landing at Kurnell.
The old Royal gave a glimpse of the Great
Wall of China where it joins the Yellow
Sea with junks in the foreground.
“Cauboy” : The first out-and-out rendering
of a piece of modern music stands to the
credit of Melbourne’s most musical suburb,
Malvern. The outrage occurred at the
local civic hall and the piece was Dorothy
Pennyman’s “Yorkshire Symphony.” It
began with the orchestra filing on to the
platform equipped with preserving pans,
saucepans, pots, liaircombs, pokers, sand-
paper and other domestic implements, in
addition to the old-fashioned impedimenta
which served Beethoven, It was explained
that great care had been exercised in the
selection of the instruments, as enamelled
ware gave out a different note from tin-
ware. This was not particularly obvious in
the playing. The most striking effect was
obtained when the drummer fell off the
stage locked arm-in-arm with a kerosene
case. It w r as unpremeditated but there is
no unmusical reason wdiy a really enter-
prising composer should not take a hint,
from an accident. Most modern music
seems more accidental than designed, like
the humor of a well-dressed citizen who
treads unexpectedly on a banana skin.
“L. de Rideau” : The decline of legit, has
led to an enormously increased activity
amongst hopeful Melbourne amateurs. A new
dramatic organisation comes into being every
week and usually it has scarcely recovered
from the agonies of birth before it is extinct.
Some of these concerns have emulated the
mushroom to such an extent that, however
quickly a dramatic critic answers to the call,
the enterprise is dead before he arrives on
the scene. Fifty years ago the right to
present performances was given or withheld
at the discretion of a magistrate, and it
was more often withheld than not, the stage-
door being regarded in those days as the
gateway to Hell. Now it is more like tne
entrance to a matrimonial agency. The
Stageland Club and Academy was established
the other day, and 700 members of the
theatrical profession and their friends
attended at the launching place in Lonsda le-
st reet. It is modelled on the famous Lambs
Club of New York, and there are all the
facilities for the development of the dramatic
art, including a buffet and a dance hall.
“Pangloss” : J.C.W. prospects for the re-
maining months of 1932 include Theo fchaii.
The plays Theo Shall will appear m don t
matter; Theo does. He is the matinee idol
of two continents, whom Nevin Tait sav-
being worshipped in Vienna.. According to
the critics he was taken direct from the
military textbooks of the Austrian ajnn
and is 'a synthesis of all the romantic ideas
about the soldier. He was a noted aviator
in the war as well.
“C.R.”: “Autumn Crocus” is the fol'ty-
oighth seedling to be watered by the tears ol
George Highland, veteran producer for the
Firm. It is popularly supposed rhat actors
and actresses have a monopoly of the quality
known as “temperament,” but to view High-
land moulding a show into shape like an
inspired sculptor making an Aphrodite out
of a lump of clay is to be disabused of that
delusion. The list of characters in Autumn
Crocus,” which has had a long run in
London, is something to whet the cunosit.v
of playgoers. This is how they , appear on
the programme: The Gentleman in the Haj
Braces; the Lady in Buttoned Shoes: the
Lady with the Lost Underclothes: the Young
Lady Living in, Sin; the Rev. Gentleman ,
the Hot Lady, etc., etc.
“Oraiser”: Probably the finest tribute to
G. B. Shaw’s qualities as a. piaywnghtji as
paid by Dame Thorndike in a Mettourne
interview. During the season of St Joan
she noticed chocolates being eaten
two occasions


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Married Teachers
Dear Bulletin, —And so in N. S. Wales
we are to revert to the dark ages in which
there was only one ultimate career for
women —home-making and child-bearing.
What the war brought to us the depression
is to take away from us—the practical
recognition that women are really no more
uniform in their tastes and aspirations than
are men, and that to force upon them a Pro-
crustean uniformity of life and occupation
is to disregard the right to a free develop-
ment of the personality. Men arc not all
forced into the one mould ; as breadwinners
they may become butchers, bakers, candle-
stick-makers, and so on.' Women should not
be denied their freedom.
Thereupon we are told: Let them choose,
then, marriage or the independent career.
But the choice is not a fair one and involves
a view of marriage as antediluvian as the
view of woman as the great mother. A man
may marry a woman, not because he is
anxious to increase the population or to
give some poor girl a home, but because lie
feels that her constant companionship is
necessary to his happiness; it is just con-
ceivable that a woman may want to marry
a man because she loves him and without
desiring to undertake the duties of house-
wife or mother.
These are really three different things,
getting married, bearing children and rear-
ing them. There are women who Avant to
do all three; they are the women for whom
the traditional view of marriage is intended.
But there are also women who may want
to do only tAvo or even only one (any tAvo or
any onej of these things. A really civilised
society would attempt to provide for these
variations. It is fully recognised that at
the present time it may be expedient to
retire married women teachers in favor of
unemployed ex-students; but this is no
excuse for the proposal to enact a bar-
barous principle binding upon the future.
—Yours, ,0. L. D. (N.S.W.).
Our Standard of Living
Dear Bulletin—There is an awful lot
of foggy and panicky thinking about the stan-
dard of living. Has our standard of living
risen consistently with our higher wages V
I could cite examples of Australian work-
men who got a monthly wage an Italian or
French small craftsman would not get in
a year. The Australian ate more expensive
food, but was not necessarily better nour-
ished thereby. He was more expensively
clothed, but less picturesquely, and not more
comfortably. He had far more leisure, but I
doubt if his happiness was commensurate
with its bulk. Much of it was spent in
tawdry amusements of the bought variety
—tin " hares, ponies, football barracking,
picture shoAvs, lounging about bars; hardly
recreation that would add a cubit to his
mental stature. It did not even add visibly
to tlie gaiety of the hour, as an entirely
home-made and much cheaper Italian festi-
val or Welsh song evening would do. Have
not we been measuring the standard of liv-
ing by its market cost alone? How absurd
it all is! Put a poet and a slaughterman
upon the same basic wage, and see. lioav
vastly different are their standards of lrnng.
—Yours, L’Fou (Vic.)
Hospital Management
Dear B„ —A recent Sydney suburban hos-
pital imbroglio about the treatment of
“compensation” cases shows that committee-
men have not changed during these 20 years,
and are still of opinion that honoraries can
live on air. One of my presidents was a
plumber; another, an ex-ship’s carpenter; a
third, a timber merchant. The ex-ship’s
carpenter, who had a voice that for volume
could give Ares points, used to order oregon
and doors and window-sashes through the
hospital telephone whilst we were engaged
in operations. They were all right in their
own lines, but slipped badly in hospital
management. I wonder if they still have
the corrugated ceiling that served as a recep-
tacle for septic dust in the operation-room
I used to work in ! I remember they wanted
the windows to face the west instead of the
north. I didn’t, in those days, get any
eulogies from grateful ex-patients, for the
simple reason that I did not ask for them.
Nowadays, some doctors ask for them, and
the letters of thanks get into the gutter
press. The B.M.A. could notify the hospital
committees to stop this sort of thing, but
it is conveniently blind to the practice. In
the present dispute, I hope that the doctor
who was sacked by the committee for dis-
charging a compensation case in order to
attend the patient privately, will be re-
elected with eclat. My own opinion is that
lay committees are unnecessary, and that
the medical superintendent and three or four
of the honoraries could run a hospital pro-
perly and could cut down exes, to a marked
degree.—Yours, Ex-G.P. (N.S.W.).
Bonus or Exchange?
Dear Bulletin, —Tire strongest argument
for a bounty is that growers cannot con-
tinue producing at a loss; and when the
primary producers collapse Australia goes
up the spout, too. Cost reducing is hope-
less; we are faced with the grim facts that
since 3914 taxation has increased by SO
millions and interest on loans by 46 mil-
lions. There’s a railway deficit of eight
millions and the new shearing aAvard makes
no reduction in wages. Before avc can bridge
the gap between costs and prices the rabbits
will be playing in Canberra. Raising ex-
change rates is another dud. It seems to
me old-man Gibson is right in shooing poli-
ticians off the bank's premises and refusing
to make rate-fixing a political toy. In any
case, to raise price-levels to costs of produc-
tion, ll|d. per pound for wool and 4s. per
bushel for wheat, means rocketing the ex-
change to 60 per cent. This will add 17
millions to overseas interest and about five
millions to the cost of essential imports, not
to mention an advance in shipping freights.
A bounty of 3d. per pound on 960 million
pounds wool comes to 3.2 millions, and 3s.
per bushel on ISO million bushels wheat
9 millions; and these figures probably Avill
be much less. So it appears to me there
would not be such a difference between ex-
change and bounty. But we would be suie
of the latter. —Yours etc., Old Gbazieb
(N.S.W.).
Land-booming the Curse
Dear Bulletin, — The practice ot calcu-
lating interest on the value of land as part,
of production, costs is open to serious ob-
jections. What makes land values? Mostly
plain foolishness. A few years back a
Murray River station was cut up. It had
been tied up until the youngest child reached
25 The day when this station would be
sold was always a matter for conversation
—a sort of halo hung round the property on
this account. By extensive advertising its
agents got buyers from everywhere. 9116
land was bought up to £5 per acre —wit-i
fences, etc., to be put in. And it was only
a sheep to three acre country! Interest at
5 p.c. on the unpaid balance represented
about 15s. per annum per sheep—an im-
possible proposition. Yet all adjacent proper-
ties were valued accordingly.
Again, 17 years ago settlement in the
Vic. Mallec was extended into four new
parishes. I was present when the first
settler arrived —a burly Irishman with
a big family. He built a hessian-and-bag
hut, which was his sole residence for some
years. When I returned from France I
found him selling out for £5 an acre. The
land shortly changed hands again at a
higher figure; but the present owner has no
hope of meeting interest on his mortgage.
The price from the Grown was about 17s.
The tendency in all new settlements is
for the successful settler to absorb the
others. Generally the successful man has
a hard-working family. This is the reason
why' Wimmera wheat-lands rose up to £2O
per acre. Their true value was never any-
thing like it; but those men who were mak-
ing money and had cheap family labor could
afford to pay it. These purchases of land
fixed the local values at a false rate. The
mortgages on these properties now exceed
their market value.
It is the artificial raising of land values
through these causes that has put us farmers
in Queer-street, and I can see no hope for
perhaps 80 p.c. of tlie farming community
unless values are written down. Something
may turn up to raise prices of wheat, etc.,
but unless .they can be kept up, the values
are impossible.-—Yours P.T.B. (Vic.).
The Country that Doesn’t Advertise
Dear Bulletin,—There is a powder of
Australian manufacture which gives relief
iii asthma cases. It costs
Is. Gd. a tin, and I have
had it sent from Sydney
at a total cost of 'ls. 9d.
Asthma is very prevalent
in North Queensland,
yet when I inquired for
this powder in various
N.Q. towns, the chemists
said they had “never
heard of it”; “this is the
first time wo have been
asked for it.” But they
knew about similar
articles (imported) at Bs.
and 9s. Gd. the (same-
sized) tin ; and a smaller
tin at Bs. These foreign
goods are advertised ; the
Australian article rarely
is. - Yours. Japook
(N.Q.). _____
The Defence Forces
Dear 8., Apropos
your article on “The
Folly of Voluntaryism”
(B. 3/8/’32). Volun-
teers are not lacking.
As far as our battalion
is concerned we have a
long waiting list ; hut we
can’t take them on. Per-
mission was sought to
set up an extra company,
there being plenty of
volunteers; but it was
refused. the establish-
ment having been cut
down from 40,000 to
27,000. Goodness knows,
there are enough dis-
couragements to enlist-
ment ; but still men are
available. Incidentally,
there is in our lot a man
who has completed 20
years’ service as a volun-
teer (over four years’
active). Tie applied
some time ago for the
Long Service Decoration,
but was informed that,
owing to the name of the
decoration being altered,
applications were not
being considered. It is
over 12 months since this
matter was hung up.
That’s the sort of thing
that irks enthusiastic
men. —Yours, Quarter-
master (Tas.).
Stevens and London
Dear B„- —If there’s
any truth in the story
that N.B.W. Premier
Stevens may be making
a trip to England, now’s
the time for IT.A.P. sup-
porters to register a pro-
test. Absolutely nothing
can be gained for N.S.W.
by his presence in Eng-
land. Tie should be able
to do far more good by
remaining where lie is.
Many Premiers before
him have gone to Eng-
land: hut we all know
it wasn’t the needs of
the countrv which sped
them Blightyward. The
dismal truth is that a
trip to Europe has been
looked upon as a sort of
“topping-off” to the halo
of Premiership, with a
holiday for the family
thrown in. It is to be hoped Stevens will
spurn the suggestion. If he does so he will
convince many Doubting Thomases that he, at
least, is genuine when he says: “I propose
to bring down the cost of government in
N.S.W.” If he doesn’t, it is good-bye to
Stevens.—Yours, J. E. B. (N.S.W.).
Little Industries in the Country
Dear B., —There is an opening in Aus-
tralia to-day for thousands of small village
or cottage industries. The native material
is here, the potential skillcraft is here, the
unsatisfied market is here and a certain
amount of local credit is to be had. As to
catching one’s market, there is in the present
decrepit state of the monetary system a
marked tendency to revert to primitive
barter, particularly in rural parts. The
farmer who cannot afford to buy the rug,
the piece of furniture or pottery he needs
might, if he could give its equivalent in
foodstuffs, wool, hides, etc., sell them to a
consumer on the spot. Surely something c an
be done to better a system under which a
grazier buying a woollen suit, containing 7s.
worth of his own raw wool is asked to pay
from £5 to £7 for it. Cannot more of our
raw wealth of potter’s clay, painter’s clay,
woods, tannins, hides, skins, furs, wools,
basketry material, dyes, brush fibres, flax,
metals, oils, gums, shell and many more
yield a competency to independent men and
women without going through such a laby-
rinth of intervening hands?
One of the small local manufacturer's
worst enemies is that inferiority complex
which infers that the imported must ever
be the better. But a track is worn to the door
of whoever does any one thing a little better
than anyone else. —Yours, F.C.M. (Vie.).
Where the Wheat Pool Wins
Dear Bulletin, —The hardy annual, Com-
pulsory Wheat Pool ballot, looks like bloom-
ing again in the spring. . It may win this
time, not because there’s any change of
heart in the cockies —of N.S.W., at any rate
—but because certain wheat firms are
supplying the poolites with deadly propa-
ganda. In the 1929-30 season, when wheat
was about 4s. Sd. per bushel, many farmers,
too grasping or badly advised, secured
advances up" to 3s. 6d. per bushel. When
prices fell below half a crown, they were
notified to pay up or take the current
values —there wasn’t any choice. Then came
the demand to make good the difference.
Threats of legal proceedings began to fly
about; and the farmers hadn’t a leg to stand
on. Inquiries from the Marketing Board
showed a large bulk of this wheat had been
sold at prices well above the advance. Con-
fronted with this evidence some firms made
satisfactory arrangements with their clients.
Others are standing out for tlie last ounce
of their pound of meat, without much hope
of getting any. The publication of the
details of these transactions, showing
Messrs. Grain, Shylock and Co. making a
double profit, will swing a tremendous vote
for the compulsory pool. Farmers, like
myself, who have consistently opposed the
pool for the right to handle the stuff we
grow have no time for these predatory
firms. It is up to the Wheat Merchants
Association to check up these cases and,
where it can be shown the merchant in-
curred no loss, to urge a settlement. But
it’s got t 0 be done quickly before the
poison gas is released. —Yours, George
Icks (N.S.W.).
Employers’ Associations
Dear Bulletin, —It is gratifying to know
that citizens other than politicians are
earnestly endeavoring to solve our unemploy-
ment problem. Adult suffrage, Government
interference and arbitration courts are gen-
erally blamed for the present position, but
the fact has to be faced that all three are
with us. That pin-pricking regulations hamper
industry very seriously is apparent every-
where, but it seems useless to even hope for
all forms of interference to be abolished.
Very few people have any doubts, how-
ever, about the failure of the arbitration
courts as at present constituted, because the
legal procedure alone not only suggests but
actually creates a feeling of antagonism be-
tween the parties. Actual experience has
taught me that an employers’ association
governed by men who insist upon fairness
from their members as well as from em-
ployees can do a great deal towards remov-
ing that feeling of suspicion which is so
apparent to-day. I know perfectly well that
unionism has gone to. the control of men
who do everything possible to convince work-
ers that employers are exploiters and blood-
suckers, but again I Say from experience
that such propaganda can be counteracted
by an association of employers practising
absolute fairness.
I feel sure that recent happenings have
convinced the majority of workers that the
policy of their alleged leaders is wrong, and
that they would welcome once more sane
unionism and the friendly adjustment of
working conditions by interested parties only
in place of arbitration courts.. Therefore I
suggest the time is ripe for: (1) The limit-
ing of Government interference to Federal
basic wage and working hours; (2) the
abolition of arbitration courts and the en-
couragement of direct negotiation between
employers and employees. —Yours faithfully,
J. A. Cakpentee (N.S.W.).
THE VET.
“In spite of his failure as Treasurer. Dr. Earle Page leader of the Federal Country party, continues
to give financial advice and to attack the Government.”
THE VET.: “Better let me treat him. I’ve killed hundreds of horses finding out what isn't good
for ’em.”


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 7
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
JCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
"Ulysses . . 14,500 „ Nov. 8
"first class only. tFirst and third class.
ICabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Daigety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.j
Joint
Agentj
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTSLtd
The World s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . .
Total Reserves approximately
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders Trustees approximately . ,
£241,341
£3.500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted .... tao n/ *
• • • • • • I jZ, I Zo Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne..
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street Adelaide
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
l r * n ± S ,«* Australia, and Agencies a, London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
**&•••• -It ' J
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Erip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaulttein,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ancl Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domaitt and Circular
Quay.
TARII'F from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the da}'
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Dr. Mivart”: What is, to my mind at
Fast, a remarkable case of bovine intelli-
gence is reported from Delegate (N.S.W.).
For four years one of the ornaments of
Balgownie station has been an elderly cow.
This creature was slaughtered recently and
was found to be carrying in its stomach
115 nails, 11 tacks, three pins, two pieces
of watch chain, three screws, 36 pieces of
wire, 12 pieces of metal, assorted, two
gramophone needles and one threepenny
piece. The animal had had no opportunity
to acquire this hardware while on Balgow-
nie, and I deduce that hearing it was to be
transferred to a non-metallifcrous area, and
knowing- by experience the benefits of an
iron ration, it stocked up before its transfer.
Mistaking a threepenny piece for iron was
pardonable on the part of a cow inexperi-
enced in finance but strong on dietetics.
* * * He
“Wippegong"; Clearing up the bark and
branches round our brand-new bush school
we flushed a little gecko who, finding all
shelter gone, wheeled round, put his back
to a chip and prepared for stoush. He got
it. Weight was against him, and amid
whoops of glee he was. whirled into the
bucket, where Skinny mounted guard while
Darky and Ginger tore down the gully to
hunt up a bottle. The one they brought
was short and flat, with a perished label
and an imperishable smell, and into this
they wrangled the protesting captive. He
stood, defiant, in the bottom, then dipped
his mouth into the solitary drop of golden
fluid left in one corner. For the next min-
ute he was in torment, flinging his three
inches up and down and back and forward,
twisting, writhing, convulsed by the agony
of a furnace in his throat. For the minute
following that he was hopelessly blotto. He
lurched, staggered, went in the knees, and
grinned idiotically at the fifty-thousand
stringy-barks dancing round his cage. Half
a minute later be was dead. We went
straight inside and had a solemn lesson on
the terrible effects of the Demon Rum.
* * * He
“Hamer”: The last horse-hitching post
left in Sydney has disappeared in Gil-
bertian circumstances. It stood outside
police headquarters in Philbp-street. The
relic was allowed to stay, since it caused
nobody any inconvenience; but one day a
man came along, riding a real horse, and
proceeded to fasten it to the post in the
old-fashioned way. A policeman rushed out
to inform the rider that he was. obstructing
SAFETY FAIRRST.
FIRST CADDY: “What’s the idea of the shotgun among the old bloke's clubs?”
SECOND CADDY: “Oh, somebody told him the crows here flew away with a ball once.”
THE ORDER.
“Good mornin to ’ee, Maister Bacon. My ol’ woman she do want a tin o’ consecrated
milk an’ a packet o’ self-rightyus flour An’ do ’ee send ’em round, for I’m braave
and late as ’tis.”
the traffic; but he retorted, logically, that
if a hitching-post couldn’t have a horse
hitched to it it shouldn’t be there. The
only answer to that was to remove the post,
which was done forthwith.
* * * *
“FY7” : Whether he agrees with me or
not, I can assure “T.Y.I” (B. 27/7/’32)
that the red kangaroo does rip with his hind
foot. Indeed I maintain that every one of the
tribe, from the big red fellow down to the
little kangaroo-rat once so common on the
H estern Queensland grass plains, uses his
hind legs as a weapon of defence or offence.
There is no doubt the ' red is a much
more savage customer than the grey. For
every dog cut by Macropus giganteus, I have
had half a dozen mauled by rufus. The
only two I ever had killed were both vic-
tims of the red kangaroo’s terible hind claw,
which in each instance disembowelled the
dog. Further, the red is always more will-
ing for a box-on when bailed up than the
grey, often leaving Iris corner to rush the
aggressor, whether the latter is on horse-
back or foot.
“Kangaroo Feathers’’: Australians will
take a mild interest in the announcement
that the Russian _ Government has imported
six emus with a view to establishing an emu-
raising industry. Each emu will lay to
schedule, following the Soviet Plan, and 10
eggs a season are expected from her. The
drawback is that the scheme sounds too like
the old poultry-farming postulate which has
wrecked so many soaring ambitions—so
many eggs, so many chickens, so many hens,
so many more eggs, and da capo. Wliat the
Soviet hopes to do with its emu herds when
it evolves them, no one seems to know.
There is no market for the feathers in Aus-
tralia or out, save a limited military one. If
Ivan Emuski is under the impression that
emu is good to eat, he has an awakening
awaiting him. Beside emu flesh, solid rubber
tyres soaked for years in decayed train oil
are delectable and digestible tucker.
* =)= *
“Pandanus’’: Darnley Island, situated
near the northern end of the Great Barrier
Reef, is noted for its giant fishtraps, which
are great stone walls running out from the
shore, to the edge of the shore reef, where
they are all connected up by a transvei-.se
wall. At half-tide the top of these walls
is awash, so that at full tide there is plenty
of depth to allow fish to enter the enclosure.
Fish are only taken from the traps during
the north-west monsoon, when the weather
is generally too rough for native craft to
venture out, and are speared as required. An
immense amount of time and energy must
have been expended in building the walls,
and none of the present inhabitants of the
island have any idea as to when they were
built. Their tradition has it that long be-
fore the stranding of the great whale which
is now Murray Island, Dawa, the Great
Spirit, landed on Darnley from a mighty
canoe one day and stayed there for a season,
instructing the inhabitants, who lived in
caves, how to build houses, weave mats and
make gardens. Also he made them build the
giant fishtraps. No other island in those
waters has similar traps.
* * :|= *
“Cackle” : In broadcasting that the kooka-
burra, never perches on a green bough, in-
variably selecting a dead one (B. 17/S/’32).
“Elgibee” is using his hat as a “mike.”
About Bellevue Hill, Sydney, where the
writer abides, there is a large colony of
kookaburras. There are many gums and
other well-leaved trees about, and any early
riser can spot Jack singing matins among
the leaves. That has been my experience
in other parts of Australia. Certainly Jack
is fond of perching on bare boughs, but that
is when he is watching the ground for his
dinner and needs an absolutely clear field of
sight.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : -‘Saved me sixty quid
last year,’’ remarked my friend from the
country when I expressed astonishment at
his concern about preparations to clear the
starlings from a neighboring house. Then
he told the story. He woke one morning
to find his best grass paddock full of a
curious movement which, on close inspec-
tion, proved to be caused by an army of
caterpillars, myriads of them. He turned
back to the house with wild ideas of using
•arsenical spray, but stopped at a sound in
the air. It was the arrival of a new army,
advancing in clouds. Starlings. Some-
how they had received tidings of the feast in
store; what they did to those caterpillars
was a tribute to their capacity as trencher-
men. When the gorged birds departed the
paddock was clear of caterpillars.
* * * *
“Riberi”: If “A.G.R.” ever wishes to
exceed his experience of shooting bats in a
mine tunnel (B. 17/8/32), let him blaze
into a flying-fox camp. What happened to
him in the. case of the little fellows will be
a mere circumstance compared with his
treatment by the cloud which will rise at
his first shot. Any clothing he may have
will be unfit for wear for ever after, and
only after a severe course of delbusing and
disinfection will any members of his familv
allow him to venture within ■ scent of the
Old Homestead.
THE AUGUST WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bitter wind of August comes roaring
from the west
To tear the mists of morning from the sleet-
swept mountain’s crest.
It swoops upon the ringbarked flats, to beat
the thistles down
Above the crouching rabbits, and to twist
the sapling’s crown.
But. in the fitful sunlight, as the rent cloud-
lace flies high,
The cruisers of the ’Bidgec, great pelicans,
sail by.
Breast-high to wind and driving sleet, their
steady course they hold :
Tis winter’s dying breath, they know, that
blows so bitter cold.
The kurrawongs, a thousand strong, are in
the sapling clump
That grows thick on the river bend o’er
flood-washed log and stump;
And, high above the roaring wind, their
clamorous calls I hear,
A-tclling that the winter dies and spring is
very near.
Bright-eyed, alert, with strong black bills,
all ready for the fray,
Eager they wait a leader’s call to take them
on their way
To far-off northern scrub-lands, where early
berries grow.
Tin' time is near for starting—the west
wind tells them so.
My old roan mare is standing with her
rump turned to the blast
That blows her long tail through her legs ;
she’s done for three months past
Little except to eat and dream of far lands
north and west •
Good for a thousand miles she looks before
another rest.
So when this August wind blows out and
kurrawongs take wing.
The old mare will be jogging down the
roadway to the spring.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’’ give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation .
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 111522.)
&
Arrange to see
Banff and Lake
Louise—greatest
scenic attractions
in Canada’s Rockies
on the wa" to England.
..MATCHLESS SERVICE ON
PREMIER TRAINS
Courteous Porters and Waiters
who anticipate your every need.
Luxurious travel comfort valet
service lounges open observation
cars—famous C.P.R. cuisine. Com-
bine these with 600 miles of the best
scenic sections of Canada’s Rockies
and you will know why so many
travellers prefer the Canadian Pacific
way to England. Write for booklets.
32/4
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS ■ HOTELS
SOCK
OVER
dOQti
NEW BOOKS
ON EVERY SUBJECT
Fiction Games
Home-arts Motors
Carpentry Electricity
Gardening Wireless
Classics. Economics, etc.
Mechanics Technical
Detailed Lists Post Free —WRITE TO-DAY
Address
CENTRAL ARCADE,
r.O. BOX KBll PERTH, W.A.
w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Dauabada” : I’ll take “Laloki’s” word for
it, as one Aboliar to another, but his yarn
of the unsophisticated Port Moresby native
who wished to buy a Bible because of its
magic powers in a police court (B.
17/8/'32) reads strangely to me. Port and
the country round about have been under
missionary governance for 50 years, and the
great majority of the darkies are converts
many of them Christians of the third genera-
tion or further. To suggest that these people
do not know what a Bible is leaves room
for doubt. Further, no mission native that
ever lived would go to a heathen trader s
store for the Holy Book. If he did he would
certainly be carpeted by the local native
teacher, that branch of trade being a cher-
ished mission prerogative.
“Hotham” : Concerning those 2000 protec-
ted kangaroos in the Quamby district which
Victoria doesn’t know what to do with (B.
27/7/’32), a suggestion has now been made
that an area at Tower llill be isolated by
the conversion of two creeks into an encirc-
ling moat, and that the marsupials be in-
terned inside. If the ids.-, is adopted the
moat will need to have perpendicular banks
of some height, and added to the training
of the creeks that would be a costly busi-
ness. Mere water will not coniine Macropus,
who, when in the mood, is a swimmer of con-
siderable ability.
“Harry J.” : Sailing high above Prospect
Dam (N.S.W.), the wedge-tailed eagle
appeared to be merely a iding to his flying
hours in a practice flight—but lie wasn’t.
Presently a family of little black divers left
the shelter of a bank and swam towards a
headland a couple of hundred yards distant.
The divers were about midway when _ the
wedge-tail banked suddenly, then nose-dived
—wings taut and tilted, body contracted
and splitting the air resistance in a swift
rush that must have seemed full of deadly
purpose to the little black birds on
the water. They scattered in terror and
then dived. The wedgetail banked sharply,
wheeled and hovered, swooping at the first
upthrust of a little black form. In no more
than three seconds all the divers had
appeared, snatched a breath and dived again.
Sticking to his first choice, the eagle again
hovered, again swooped, again missed. The
third time that the unlucky diver appeared
the eagle was only a split second late. The
fourth time was the last.
“Yarra-bandi”: The term “Never Never
country,” applied to the far western parts
of N. S. Wales and Queensland, originated
in very early colonial days, and its exact
meaning is obscure to most moderns. It
arose from the fact that the bottoms of
gullies falling from the Great Dividing
Range near Nullo Mountain to the head
waters of the Cudgegong River become
swampy as they approach the river. The
THE ROYAL ROAD TO WEALTH.
“Well, I better be movin’ on, Splinter. I gotter make a livin’, too, y’know."
“Blimc, Porky, if. yell could make a livin’ watchin' other blokes work yeh'd ha been
a millionaire be now.”
REPORTED MISSING
DAD: “What’s the matter now?”
CHOOM: “Daisy, sir. I were milking ’er in the bail an’ she obsconded."
surfaces are covered with a dense, mat ol
mountain moss and other semi-aquatic
growths, overlying a deep pipeclay bed. gen-
erally so saturated with water that it is ol:
the consistency of porridge beneath the
vegetable mat. Cattle attempting to reach
the water in any of the numerous surface
ponds almqst invariably flounder and sink,
struggling until they completely disappear
below the surface, never to be seen again.
Somewhat similar bogs occur in the “Malice
country” of the Murray valley, where one may
observe a pair of bullock horns protruding
from the bed of a gilgai. Investigation will
disclose that the horns arc still attached to
the whole skeleton of the beast. The Cudge-
gong River derives its name from the offen-
sive smell given off by its swamps in' dry-
periods. “Coogee,” “Cadge ’ and ‘Gidgie
are local variations of the same term.
“Antipas": It would qualify as a large
soldier ant if it didn’t do this kind of thing.
I found it on the garden path, and got
a stick to move it. Instantly it turned on
its side and gripped the stick by a mouth in
its middle. It repeated the upsetting business
half a dozen times. Through my magnifying
glass I saw it had a mouth at both bow
and stern as well. I left it there. It has
been in the same spot a week. What is
it? ... ... #
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides)*: The Tanna
volcano is responsible for some queer beliefs
among the native inhabitants of. this shaky
island. A species of hairless pig is raised
by the islanders, and is claimed by them
to have been in existence long before Cap-
tain Cook landed his porkers at Port Reso-
lution. The species is known as “kapea,”
literally “bald one.” According to local tra-
dition ’ the original hairless pig was con-
ceived and born in the crater of the always -
active volcano, and the nude condition of
his hide is cited as conclusive proof. It is
still the custom in certain districts during
the numerous earthquakes that occur for the
people to rush from their grass huts, hold
nn to cocoanut trees, and call wildly on
Kapea to use his influence with his. ances-
tor to stop the shaking. Can any r member
of the Council throw light on the real origin
of these pigs?
“Orn”: The reason for the old custom
of banging a tea-tray in order to induce a
swarm of bees to settle has been under
discussion lately. The theory usually put
forward is that to the bees the row threatens
thunderstorms and hailstorms, and they
cluster for shelter. Another and' more elabo-
rate suggestion is that it interferes with their
rallying cry—“jambs” it, as our wireless
fiends would say. A third theory, tout
of Dadant, is that the tray-banging lias no
effect on anyone but the bangers, and with
that view I humbly agree. The only method
I have found of any use is spraying the
swarm with a garden syringe. Most swarms
make their first settling not far from the
hive, the theory being that the queen must get
rid of some of the weight of eggs; so it is
difficult to judge of the success of anyone s
methods. That all of them fail at times is
the one thing certain.
“Spru” • Tassie doesn’t own all the big logs.
Here’s Westralia’s entry—a slab of jarrah,
3ft. square at both ends, cut entirely free
of heart and wane, and 48ft. in length. This
huge stick was taken over 350 nnles 01.
narrow-gauge line from the mill at » elling-
ton to the Fingal mine, Day Dawn, where
ic was used as a bed-plate for the mine
stampers.
As a breakfast thief the monkey
has a stout rival in the Indian hawk. Many
a Ghota Kauri has been snatched from beside
my bed in the compound by this feathered
scavenger. Dawn near any Indian town
seesi myriads of birds on their way to the
city, where hawks and crows do municipal
dust-cart duty till dusk, when they return
to their country homes. Thomas Atkins
has a habit of joining two hunks of meat
with stout cord and heaving them into the
air. Before the bait can touch the ground
each piece is seized by a hawk, and then
ensues an aerial battle in which great skill
and cunning are displayed. The booty usu-
ally goes to the bird which first manages to
foul his opponent on a roof or tree, since
the meat is seized in the claws and must
be dropped when alighting.
:j: * * *
“Frigid” : Reference to the Fraser. Island
lakes (“Wyara,” B. 3/8/’32) recalls t 0 mind
other strange features of this bit of land that
Captain Cook discovered in 1770. There is
a queer plant found there called the “head-
ache vine,” the leaves of which cause, a
most violent headache to anyone bruising
them and sniffing the peculiar odor. An-
other vine, found nowhere else in Australia,
is said to have been used by the abos. as
a contraceptive. There is also a rare lemon-
scented tea-tree, the leaves of which, when
steamed, produce an oil with a flavor simi-
lar to the juice from a lemon.. It is a pity
this tree is so rare, or it might challenge
the Malayan monopoly of lemon essence.
In the F.M.S. the essence is made by lique-
fying the vapor from a sweet-scented grass.
THE PATIENT COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Old Dan’s a fair-to-middling cook, all but the
chronic narks agree;
He’s kept so busy slinging hash, lies never
studied repartee.
And so he’s only one retort whene er at his
expense they joke:
“Ah, gam!” he tells them placidly, ‘ yer
know I ain’t that sorter bloke."
They try him, as the smarties will, with all
the old and hackneyed stuff;
They darkly hint at evil things he puts into
his stew and duff.
The barrack that he’s got to face too often
might a saint provoke,
But all it draws from Dan’s a mild “Yer
know I ain’t that sorter bloke.”
Outrageous fables on his past are often given
currency;
They speculate on what a wild and flamm
youth he useter be;
Ran through a fortune, like as not, and
women’s hearts by dozens broke.
“Aw, cut it out!” says Dan, “yer know I
never was that sorter bloke.”
There’s times lie takes a trip to town, and
on return ho gets it bad.
All sorts of wild conjectures rage about the
roaring spree ho’s had,
The various pubs he painted red, the dead-
houses in which lie woke.
Dan only grins his patient grin: “Yer know
I ain’t that sorter bloke.”
It’s just the same, whatever yarns they
frame or little jokes they plan,
There’s none has ever found the bait to
draw a. real rise from Dan.
No hot disclaimers come from him, no angry
mutt’rings wrath that cloak ;
.Tust that unvarying formula: “Not me, I
ain’t that sorter bloke.”
And when he hits the Golden Shore, the
gate where Peter keeps the keys,
I have a shrewd idea he’ll pass the stiffost
entrance test with ease.
A paybook all uninked with red that signi-
fies Commandments broke
Will leave no shadow of a doubt old Dan
was not “that sorter bloke.”
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


m
* L
m
ŵ
Even more luxurious even more charming Sydney , s
Australia, brilliantly redecorated in the modern manner.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF — ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Reduced Costs are reflected by a Reduced Tariff but Quality and Service are
maintained at the same world-famous “Australia” standard.
A Single Room is to be had for 10/6 per day, with a Double Room costing only 20/-
per day. Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/-, and a la carte. Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
‘....after all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’”
ẁ
B The Hotel
of the
' Commonwealth,
SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Second-hand cares for sale.”— “S.M.H.”
They call this truth in advertising.
* *
“A swindler can only work successfully where
there is a crowd.”
That is, where the population is dense.
* *
“The heavy rain and snow had softened the roads
and some of the cars sank up to the ankles.’ -
—Melbourne “Herald.”
In addition to which there was mud on
Lizzies bonnet and hood.
* *
Ere poverty became his lot
His suits were all a perfect fit;
But ah! liis present one is not —
It’s easy to inch holes in it.
V- #
LAW OF CHANGE.
He was new to Darlinghurst and couldn’t
find her flat. Eventually he noticed a man
outside a large edifice marked The Belle,
and asked him the whereabouts of The
Splendiferous. “Damfino,” said the lounger,
rn ll ' *’ m 110 stranger to these parts, either.
Try the next street.” A man in the next
street was a mine of information. “The
Splendiferous?” he said. “Of course They
used to call some flats near here that, but
they changed the name to The Marvellous
after the first raid, and after the second they
became The Eden. And after the murder
they decided to call ’em The Waitawhile.”
“I don’t know why my husband should
be so thin. I buy the very best soup
bones for him and Fido.”
The stranger said “Thanks, very much,”
and started in pursuit of The Waitawhile.
After an unavailing quest he returned to his
friend of The Belle. “The Waitawhile?”
said the lounger. “Of course, I know it.
These flats used to be The Waitawhile. We
changed the name last night”—and he
indicated a newly-blackened eye—“to The
Belle.”
T. W. N.
“May Waters (5) swallowed two nuts and had to
be rushed to hospital.”
And the surgeons immediately began gath-
ering nuts in May.
GETTING AT THE TRUTH.
The Hole-in-One Commission which is in-
vestigating charges of corruption in • con-
nection with the Subbubs Golf Club
resumed its sittings yesterday. Mr. Bilge,
KjC., who is assisting the Commissioner,
intimated that he had 02 more witnesses to
call in addition to the 103
who have already given evi-
dence. Cheers from the Bar
table were instantly sup-
pressed. Jimmy Dole, caddie,
then entered the box.
Mr. Bilge, K.C.: “Tell his
Honor what occurred at the
17th hole.”
I )ole : “The old bloke arsks
me for ’is driver, the ’,o;le
being all of ’undred and
twenty yards, shuts both
eyes as per usual, an’ blast
me if the ball don’t go into
the tin.”
Mr. B.: “What happened
next?”
Dole : “He says to the
bloke ’c’s playin’ with:
‘This means fifty pound to
me, Mr. Sniff. I gotter bet
about it.’ The other bloke
says: ‘Good on ver. Mr.
Crook.’ ”
• Mr. B. : “What happened
next?”
Dole : “They goes on play-
in’—if a bloke can call it
playin.’ ”
Mr, Snarl, K.C. (for the
Subbubs Golf Club) : “Who
paid you to say the ball went
into the tin?’’
Dole : “Mr. Crook.”
Mr. S.: “Now, Dole, I
want you to be very careful
of your next answer. How
much did Mr. Crook give
you ?”
Dole: “Five quid.”
Mr, Bilge (re-examining) :
“Who paid you to say Mr.
Crook paid you to say the
ball went in?”
D le : “Mr. Muggins.”
Mr. B.: “Be very, very
careful how you answer this, my lad.
Remember you’re on your oath. How much
did Mr. Muggins pay you?”
Dole : “Five quid.”
His Honor: “There are certain portions
of your evidence, witness, about which I
am not quite clear. How much did you say
Mr. Crook gave you?”
Dole : “Nothing.”
His Honor : “You wish to withdraw your
former statement, remembering the serious
fact that you are on your oath?”
Dole : “Yairs. Muggins never give me
nothing, neither.”
IDs Honor: “I may take it. then (and I
make no references, at the present junc-
ture. to your confusing predilection for
double negatives), that the whole of your
previous evidence was incorrect?”
Dole : “Pretty well.”
His Honor : “Remember, witness, that
this is a serious matter, and that you are
on your- But you’ve heard all that
before. Do I understand that you wish
to amend previous evidence, and, re-
membering the serious penalties which the
law imposes for deliberate perjury, have
the whole matter reopened de novo ?”
Mr. Howl, K.C. (for the Alice Springs
Golf Club) : “ Objcc ’!”
Mr. Blether. K.C. (for the Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Assoc.) : “Objcc’/”
Mr. Wamble, K.C. (for the Aborigines’
Protection Soc.) : “Objcc’/”
Argument was then entered upon, at the
conclusion of which the Commission ad-
journed for a week. jj g
¥ #
“Australia has carried out some monumental public
works. ’ ’ — “A rgvs. ”
And borrowed millions lie beneath them.
“A Sydney clergyman says ‘A man should expect
to go through life receiving blows.’ ”
And even after death there’s the crack
of doom.
Meat was the piece de resistance at
Ottawa.
* *
THE MODERN GIRL.
“Where arc you going, my pretty maid ,
With your hair so fair and your checks
■o r. d
“To collect the golf-cup for which I played,
And downed my great-grandson, sir!”
she said.
* *
THE LOGIC OF IT.
“If Mr. Smith and his supporters gave a little
more study to this subject they would not make
so many misstatements, and be better able to with-
stand the chilly blasts of criticism to . which, appa-
rently, they are impervious.”— “S.M.H.” correspondent.
AVe agree. Far better for Mr. Smith to
let sleeping dogs lie than arouse them when
they have passed into that sleep from which
there is no awakening. In any event,
“Daddy was born in Melbourne, and mummy was born
in Sydney, and I was born in Brisbane. No, it isn’t
wonderful how we all came to meet—rhad you there!”
honesty is the best policy for those who re-
fuse to have a policy on principle; while
the biter, however incapable he may be of
biting, is invariably bit when he sinks the
teeth he hasn’t got in the anatomy of one
afflicted by a similar disability. ‘ Moral:
Always take care of. the pence you. lack and
the pounds will be taken care of by some-
one else.
D.
>1- >t
It’s known as the Tottery since Stevens
turned a hostile eye on it.
“A prohibitionist says . that the greed for money
is responsible for the curse of drink amongst
working men.”
Rubbish! Whatever the working man
may do, he doesn’t curse drink.
ft ft
“The turf becomes treacherous in wet weather."
—Melbourne “Herald.”
The dashed thing can’t be depended on in
any weather.
ft ft
“Telephone operators must have the right sort
of figure.”— P.M.G.
Though hello-girls to do their biz.
Must possess figures lithe ami strong,
One other thing’s essential; viz.,
Their numbers always must be wrong.
>t ft
It is considered in Trades Hall circles
that the proposal to make “Australia Land
of Ours” the national anthem would be more
acceptable if the word “Shorter” were inter-
polated.
ft ft
THE OPPORTUNIST.
The toiler gazed wistfully at the newly-
built hotel.
“Reminds me of poor ole Bill Knockoff,"
he sighed. “The best blanky organiser a
union over had. ’E was in Sydney for the
larst basic-wage case.. Nine months it
stiung out, and our union fees were
doubled. ’lm and the rest of ’em put up
at the ’otel that was ’ere before this.
“The management had its own fire-
brigade. if yer remember. Well. Bill was
asleep in ’is sweet, an’ ’e stuck ’is ’ead out
of the window to see all th’ bottom part
alight. ’E realised at once that ’e’d got
the capitalistic owner of the joint in ’is
Power. Bill was like that. A quick
thinker.”
‘‘What did he do?”
“Called a firemen’s strike, o’ course. The
union give him the most wunnerful funeral
that’s ever been seen in these parts.”
T. B.
V
“It is believed that De Valera is withholding the
Irish annuities to attract Scotsmen.”
His idea is to demonstrate that Ireland
really is a free State.
* ft
SAFE HIKING.
Something must be done to ensure it, for
accidents are increasing alarmingly in the
country and outer suburbs. That is to say,
where trees are. It should be easy to connect
all trees with telegraph wires so that should
a hiker hike off the beaten track he could
send a message to indicate where lie was. If
he couldn’t telegraph he might start a bush
fire. And we simply must have electric
heating systems so that should it turn out
a cold day the bush could be adequately
warmed. Conversely, windbreaks should be
erected along the routes, also umbrella and
golosh depots.
Until tin l Government attends to these few
reforms I will continue to do my hiking in
trams.
W. P. T.
* *
“The whole world is struggling to get back to
the position of 20 years ago.”
True ; even America is anxious to get back
to the old spot. ,
ft *
INTELLIGENCE TEST FOR
SUBURBAN ALDERMEN.
(1) It is proposed to widen a road. On
one side are some magnificent Moreton Bay
figs fronting a reserve, on the other some
dilapidated tenement houses. Write a full
note on the traditional necessity of destroy-
ing the trees and encroaching on the park.
(2) In tin* course of an argument at a
Council meeting, another alderman has re-
ferred to you, sotto voce, as a “boneheaded
old .” You failed to catch the last
word, a popular term in the A.I.F.
Supply it.
(3) The Roads and Footpaths Committee
is discussing a footpath for your street, but
owing to financial stringency only one side
can be done. Your side has 50 p.c. fewer
residentials than the other. Which would
you support? Give reasons.
(4) Your hated mother-in-law, who has
more than once called you a thief, has had
a garage built, and it has come to your
knowledge that Council’s approval of plans
and specifications was not obtained. Would
you deem it your duty, qua alderman, to
bring this civic delinquency under the
notice of the Building Inspector?
(5) You receive, by post, a box of the
best cigars from a ratepayer who has applied
to the Council to have an electric-light stan-
dard put outside his house. Would you
display hostility to the proposal at the next
meeting? g w. K,
ft ft
“Prohibition Under Fire.”— “Age” headline.
A nice thing if a prohibitionist gets shot!
MOTHER: “I don't like you going out alone
at night, Muriel!”
MURIEL: “Oh, it’s all right, mother. I won’t
be alone long!”
DIFFERENT NATS., DIFFERENT
PUNS.
“ ‘THE CAT’
“ ‘Stern Measures in Eng.’ ’’
_ —“Sun” headings,
t hey poison burglars with ammonia
In unrelenting Pat.,
While in the wilds of Mos.
Jhey droion them slowly in a creek,
forgers are slaughtered to a man
in money-loving Yuc.,
-D>d labor (hard) for countless moons
/ heir doom is in the Cam.
Proceeding to Jer.
We find Yid bankers strangling them.
J arsons of wealth die every day
For drinking in the U.
in vieio of which who'll couple failure
With mercy’s name in White Aus.f
D. J.
COMBERS.
The waves her tresses bore
Were paid for by a bloke
Who called them breakers, for
They left him broke.
T. W. N.
COLOR PARADOX.
The whisky that he drank looked gold;
The gin shone crystal-clear •
The port was dark and very old,
Like amber was the beer.
His creme-de-menthe 'was colored green,
Yet —so the gossips said—
He shortly afterwards ivas seen
Painting the city red!
T. B.


£\£> j j 0 Rdpfe r
■
038
cT
agfe.:-#:.
HiS
0
I»1
'•■':v
«&§
■m
sm,m
■ferns
<l mmm »-
•:- £
|®§lfB» : i&
■u
IPPS&
MMRI
■
./ / -
M
*1
:
a
ja
i
/V
*
Sgsss^fiiis
sm
=s*-'
*!*
•X >
m
S.S. NELLORE
sails Sept. 14
S.S. TANDA
Sails Oct. 15
S.S. NANKIN
sails Nov. 12
A UTUMN Days in Japan are ideal
for walking and motoring,
The Maples gjow with colour and the
Chrysanthemums are in full Deauty.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER FARES
Sydney to Yokohama
FIRST, £9O • SECOND, £50\15
(No Exchange)
9*
s^'
%
m
m
Passengers making Round Trip may live
on board E. & A. steamers at all ports.
A Special inclusive tour, in-
cluding, 12 days’ sightseeing
in Japan, can be arranged from
£135-10-0 from Sydney,—
First Saloon, only the land
portion being subject to ex-
change.
Joint E. & A. Passenger Agents :
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
MACDONALD HAMILTON & CO.
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Lonsdale’s “Aren’t We All?” at Sydney
Prince Edward, represents the ideal combi-
nation for a talkie of its type. It is Ameri-
can on the technical side (Lachman produced
it for Paramount), and the dialogue, cast
and most of the scenes are English, he
spotlight, which was on the festive father
and Lady Mary in the play is diverted to
Owen Nares (Willy) and Gertrude Law-
rence (Margot), and social habits have been
brought up-to-date. Rich honcymooners are
avoiding Egypt since the depression came
on top of the native rows there; so the hero
and heroine are first shown sun-baking at
•Juan-les-Pins, and this is where the lady
falls from grace. However, plot and charac-
ters are substantially the saim 1 . The cynical
worldliness of “Aren’t We All?” is what dis-
tinguishes it from American light comedies,
which, however voluptuous in detail, always
have a portentous moral lesson tacked on to
the end. The director has tried hard to make
it safe for pietists. Most of the naughty
lines have been cut out (which, unfortun-
ately, makes for dulness), and there isn’t
a situation capable of bringing a blush to
the cheek of virtue; but it remains a poor
advt. for the morals of the English upper
classes. The hero and heroine can’t be
loyal to each other when separated for a
few days; the noble father (Hugh Wake-
field) is a chaser of vulgar Cockney flappers,
and proud of it; his goings-on don’t worry
the elderly lady of title (Marie Ldlir), who
is chasing him; the vicar is addicted to the
bottle, and his wife confesses to a, flirta-
tious past. It ends, like the play, with the
cheerful reflection that we’re all ruddy fools.
The acting is equal to anything seen here
in an American talkie, but it is completely
uncreative. In American movies yon are
always liable to strike someone who, how-
ever crude, is new and, strange—-a moron
editor, a fantastic gangster or millionaire.
It is their only Elizabethan feature. All
the people in this show —the_ Quex-like peer,
the over-sexed girl, the comic parson —have
been appearing on British stages for genera-
tions, and they are played on stock lines.
This is the first English society film the
writer has seen without an American touch
in it. The men-servants are unobtrusive,
as opposed to the Hollywood convention of
bringing them into prominence by such de-
vices as making youthful males use their
bowed heads as hatracks; and Hugh Wake-
field’s horse isn’t the usual circus animal,
with flowing mane and tail, but a thorough-
bred hunter such as an Englishman of his
type would ride. It shows how well-advised
the Americans were to go to England to do
their important English films. Many of the
sets are beautiful, and the photography
would be perfect if the figures weren’t out
of focus in some of the middle shots.
* ¥ *
“A Night Like This,” the new Walls-
Lynn farce at Sydney Mayfair, isn’t so
funny as “Rookery Nook,” but it is more
like -a film. The West End of London on
a foggy evening, and a smart night club and
its frequenters are effectively seen through
the shifting eye of the camera. Walls is
an Irish policeman (Hollywood only knows
why he isn’t an English one) who meets
Lynn in a club to which neither of them
belongs, and which they wouldn’t have been
able to get into in London, though they
might in the U.S.A. They combine to re-
cover a necklace for Winifred Shotter which
is the property of her formidable aunt.
Norma Varden. Mary Brough, in a tower-
ing rage as usual and wearing the same
awful clothes, is a • dresser, and Robertson
Hare is again a futile little husband. He
has to go home to his jealous wife (the
aunt aforesaid) in a lady’s cloak, and with-
out his trousers. The biggest laugh of the
evening was scored on Saturday night by
an episode in which two thugs attack Walls
and are outed with a poker by the amiable
Lynn from behind a curtain. Lynn’s fatuous
gags also produced roars. He certainly is
a most engaging comedian. It winds up
in a vein of fantasy with all the chi’-'
actors —police, criminals and night-club
patrons —marching off to music in mass for-
mation. As cheering as a bottle of good
whiskv, and as free from surprises.
¥ * *
“The Strange Case of Clara Deane.” at
Sydney Plaza, belongs to the Villain-Still-
Pursued-Her type of beljowdrama, and
is performed to an accompaniment of
moans, sobs and tears. Wynne Gibson
(Clara) is the chief grief-maker. She
begins weeping in the first dozen feet of the
film, and continues to the end. Her anguish
is due to the criminal conduct of Pat O’Brien
as Mr. Deane. He does practically every-
thing he shouldn’t do, from petty larceny up-
wards, but she sticks to him, howling ever
more loudly as his worthlessness becomes
increasingly evident. Comes a dark day
when she is landed in gaol as his accomplice
in a murder of which she was, of course, in-
no-cent. Enter a detective with a heart of gold
(Dudley Diggler), who undertakes to look
after her che-ild. More agony follows when
she gets out, and finds that the child is about
to marry a rich man, and that Mr. Deane
is up to his old tricks —blackmail being his
line on this occasion. An appalling show.
Sybil Thorndike complained the other day
that the talkies were ruining the public’s
taste. The fact is large sections of the
public are and always have been completely
without taste, and prove it by crowding to
movies like “The Strange Case of Clara
Deane,” as their forbears did by crowding
to plays like “The Face at the'Window.”
* * *
Barbara Stanwyck does good work in “So
Rig,” at Sydney Regent. She is Edna
Ferber’s Selina to the life, the fairy-like
creature who comes among the rough Dutch
settlers, and makes them rock with laughter
by unguardedly mentioning that she sees
beauty in cabbages. As a widow with a
son to bring up, she breaks from the tradi-
tions of the countryside by growing aspara-
gus, which becomes famous enough to figure
on hotel menus under her name, which is
Do. Jong. When her boy, “So Big,” grows
up (Ilardie Albright plays him) he becomes
ashamed of the-family vegetable, and takes
to bond-selling and philandering with his
employer’s wife. Then he turns to Bette
Davis. Just as Barbara was typical of the
stuffy ’nineties, so Bette is typical of the
released ’thirties. Her hair is'rinsed of all
color; her face has had most of the expres-
eion plucked from it with her eyebrows ; her
body is straight up and down; her speech is
vibrant, and she stands alone, looking back
and down to man. That kind of girl would
see through young De Jong, and she does,
Eventually Roelf, whom Barbara loved and
helped as a small boy, returns from Europe
a famous sculptor, and she finds solace m
his success. Life hasn t denied hei e\ eiy-
thing. This simple and credible story is
admirably acted by a big cast, which includes
George Brent and some clever children.
* * r * . m „ .
The Greeks Had a Word for Them, at
Sydney State, is about gold-diggers. _ Why
the Greeks should have been dragged m isnt
apparent. Their word is presumably the one
which is usually translated lady-friends,
and these females are neither ladies nor
friends. There are three of them, and the.y
cadge coats, jewellery, automobiles, orchids,
free feeds and the like from men. It is
amusing at first, as the dialogue is smart and
the acting, which is chiefly in the hands of
Madge Evans, Joan Blondell and, Ina.Glair,
is good. But it soon palls As in all such
productions the money has been thrown about
with a lavish hand. )t
The Beast of the City, a., o at the State,
reveals the efforts of a straight-going cop
to rid Ins town of gangsters. It has one
unusual feature: the ImrqAs a corpse at the
fade-out. The scenes at police h.q the busy
switchboard, the waiting fleet of, cars, the
interrogation of culprits, the intra-force
jealousies—are interestingly shown. M altei
Huston is the cop.
~ . , . , „n
Si Aim ; An American animal c lLcto
who one time had his headquaiteis at Singa-
pore has had his experiences made into a film.
A Hollywood puffer announces that the i -
trepid Nimrod Mmadf new
a little village called Ivatong, just outside ?
sapore and on the edge of a dense jungle.
Ivatong has beem for two generations Singa
pores premier bathing res }>, ‘ q . ffi . .
ess explorer .must have had .difficulty n
bringing down his elephants without hitt g
the waiters of the Seaview Hotel, s v *
gm slings to Europeans on the lawn. Latei
he moved further into the interior. As
Singapore is only 14 miles across he must
have been in grave danger of slopping over
on to the exterior again Singapore has
always been a great entrepot for wild
animals, however, mainly brought in by
native trappers from the Peninsula and the
other islands
“Shoot Durn Yuh”: Cochran has stag-
gored the theatrical world of London by
staging continuous variety, with the result
that the nolice have to clear the streets in
front of bis theatres The show starts at
two and ceases at midnight. People go in
when they like and get out when they have
had enough as they do at the cinemas. No-
thing is more certain than that Australian
vaudevillains will follow his example. Pro-
tests/if any, wall come from the actors who
have to work like coolies. ,
“Clarenza”: If the talkies are pushing
thespians and musicians out of jobs they
seem to be providing a lot of work for an-
other class of people. A travelling outfit
that recently invaded our rural district had
on its bills a “technical staff” which included
a producer, director, assistant-director,
camera-man, two assistant camera-men, tech-
nical sound engineer, sound-mixing engineer,
two sound recorders, sound equipment super-
visor, art director and three film editors.
There were a Buddy, an Eddie, an Elmer
and a Gene among the Christian monikers
of this galaxy, but perhaps that isn t con-
elusive proof they came from Hollywood.
“D.”: The film censor told an interviewer
the other day that he “was passing pictures
now which he would have turned down a
year ago.” Does he consider our morals have
become more resistant to temptation? What-
ever the explanation, we are getting an
undue number of luscious films, and, how-
ever fatuous and remote from life they may
be, they are almost invariably winners,
“One Hour With You” had a seven-
week run in Sydney. Its main feature,
is a double-bed in which Chevalier protests
his love for his wife in between the even-
tually successful attempts of another lady on
his virtue. “The Blue Danube” had to
be revived, so urgent were the demands of
those who enjoy seeing a tuneful, though
almost certainly unwashed and malodorous,
Romany lad lured to his moral ruin by a
lady of wealth. It is easy to point to tno
kind of film that will tall dead, practically
on sight, in Australia. The most amateur-
isb of the English efforts such as Shaw s
How He Lied to Her Husband, and the
best-produced and most ruthlessly realistic
American pictures, such as “The Front
Page,” come in this category. It is nnpos-
sible to be certain about any of the others,
always excepting those which are fruitily
sensuous as well as sexy—the screen equiva-
tents of novels like “Three Weeks.” Exlnbi-
tors know all about it, and encourage the
output of such rubbish to the best of their
ability. Naturally. But what is our Mr.
O Reilly doing in that galleiy?
“M.G.S.”: The arrival of Norman W.
Cooke, a citizen of the U.S.A., with an ex-
pert staff and three tons of apparatus for
taking moving pictures suggests that ITolly-
wood has discovered the whereabouts of
Australia. Cooke proposes to lead an ex-
pedition to Central Australia for the pur-
pose of filming Binghi in his native wilds
for a world-wide chain of scenics. The
Speck and other parts will be included in
the itinerary. Mr. Cooke reports that
another organisation is on its way from
California with the same objectives.
“Cine Ma”: The other afternoon I groped
my W ay into Melbourne’s most ornate
c i nema an( j W as guided to my seat by an
official with a torch. Being preoccupied
w ith the sensational happenings on the
screen it was not for some time that I
became aware that I was the subject of
acrimonious comment by two persons behind
nie. After discussing me from various
angles they decided that I was the tallest
man they had ever come across, arid that
men as tall should not be allowed
in moving-picture palaces, because they
obstructed the view. As my height, is a
bare five-feet-eight I pondered this criticism
for some time, but the comment continued
and became more and more personal. Then
I discovered that I was sitting on the ap-
turned edge of the patent seat, which, on
account of its ample construction, was quite
as comfortable that way as when turned
down.


Legal Notice.
T° THOMAS McDonald, father of JAMES HENRY
McDONALD deceased who died intestate in New
Zealand on the 9th September 1928 ; to the
CHILDREN (other than AMY AGNES CUNNING-
HAM) of the marriage of the said THOMAS
McDonald with agnes amy McDonald ; to
the CHILDREN of the said THOMAS McDONALI)
by any further marriage and to ALL PERSONS
claiming by through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
to me on or before the Ist day of December 1932
your claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
failing which the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this loth day of August, 1932.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To JOHN MARLIN STRANGER formerly of
Hobart in Tasmania Confectioner but now of parts
unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this
Court citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Grace Jean Stranger for dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion.
TAKE NOTICE that unless within thirty days from
the publication of this Notice you cause an appearance
to be entered in the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie.street Hobart to answer the
said Petition and unless you attend at the said
Court in person or by your Solicitor at the hearing
of the said Petition the Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved and pronounce sentence your
absence notwithstanding.
A. C. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
TO IVY DOROTHY MARY FARRELL Married
Woman and E. DRAKE Electrician both formerly
of Subiaco in the State of Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that Citations bearing date the
Twentieth day of July One thousand Nine hundred
and Thirty-two have been issued out of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear-
and answer the Petition of ALBERT CLARENCE
FARRELL of Pemberton in the said State Farm-
hand praying for dissolution of marriage. IN
DEFAULT of you so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce sentence therein. AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within FORTY-FIVE DAYS after the date' of the
last publication of this notice to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
LS
lIS T. F. DAVIES,
6-8-32 Registrar.
FRED CURRAN of Brown’s Buildings 193 Murray
Street Perth Solicitor for the Petitioner.
To be advertised :
(«) “The Sunday Times” Newspaper published at
Perth in the State of Western Australia. Three
advertisements with interval of Seven days
between each advertisement.
( b ) The “Australasian” Newspaper published at Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria. Two advertise-
ments with interval of Seven days between each
advertisement.
(c) “The Bulletin” Newspaper published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. Two adver-
tisements with interval of Seven days between
each advertisement.
Missing Friends.
HENRY NORMAN, son of
Robert Joseph Norman, taxi-driver, of
Dunedin, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Dunedin, N.Z.
“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER,
ON SALE SATURDAY NEXT.
Will prices recover to 1928
levels ?
The future of Consols.
Gold Dollar Bonds.
Outlook for Industrials.
The metal markets.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the September issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
I want you to tell your fathers
these things about Sugar!
- V '-f r P
fit, 3321.6/}
omacA of
3auZfi£fM Qoocj/i
Hut,
s%'Si
5 :#§#■
V
, Vs
I'Mli
> ' , »
‘MOW, boys, I want you to know more about the great Sugar Industry than
A many of our grown-up people know. I want you to know the facts. So
many people have a hazy idea about it, but they don’t know the facts.
“For the last seven years Australia has been producing about 500,000 tons of
sugar per annum. Approximately 300,000 tons are required for her own use.
The balance is exported and sold at world’s price. The present world’s price
is lower than the Australian price, but the British people give a tariff prefer-
ence of nearly one halfpenny per pound to Australian sugar, and this prefer-
ence, together with the small profit made on what you and I eat enables the
sugar-growers to carry on.
“It is perfectly true that if this export trade were wiped out the growers
could, for the time being, supply refined sugar at fourpence per pound to you
and me! But then many of the people at present engaged in sugar production
would eventually be thrown out of employment.
“Now, there is another important set of figures for you to tell your fathers.
In 1931 Queensland exported to other States goods to the value of
£9,314,658, of which two-thirds of the total value was represented by raw
sugar. Queensland has imported from the other States commodities of
Australian production to the value of £11,332,61 7. What you and your
fathers want to think out is this: What will happen to this great Southern
trade with Queensland if the biggest part of the Queensland market is
wiped out? Doesn’t it look as though the maintenance of the sugar industry
is necessary, in large measure, to the maintenance of Southern factory
workers and the men engaged in Southern transport and the like?
“It is all very well for the people in the South to want their sugar at bankrupt
price, but then they can’t have it both ways. If they wipe out the Sugar
Industry they will lose their Queensland trade. You might go home to-night
and talk this over with your fathers. They may not know these things that I
have been telling you. There are a great many people wholly ignorant of these
things, and you will be helping Australia if you help in putting them right.”
inserted bu the.
Sugar Growers of Australia
for the. information of the. f/eople
Write to the Australian Sugar Producers’ Association, Ltd., P.O. Box 608J, Brisbane, or The Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council, P.O. Box 1032N, Brisbane, for a copy of an interesting and informative book, entitled:
“The Australian Sugar Industry.”
“HANDY HINTS for the FARM’
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is those he doesn't know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1000 practical hints from the Land pages of J^ulCeUn


I
*42
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary—
long, and hard, and gruelling—they choose
DIAMONDS.
It is Diamonds* length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place in the
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
pOR the same reasons many
Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio set manufacturers, and the
Navy, choose Diamonds.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
%
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
the truth about beef.
“M.11.E.”: No quota, preference or
'agreement respecting the delivery of Aus-
tralian beef to the British market will be
of the slightest avail until (1) we can grow
better beef than the Argentine, (2) we con-
form to British requirements in regard to
size of joints, (3) we meet British butchers’
needs by producing a standardised carcase,
(4) we can either sufficiently hasten transit
of beef or take other measures which will
enable us to land beef in London in a con-
dition equivalent to chilled beef, (5) we can
arrange a sufficient flow of beef to the British
market and at a price to compete with the
Argentine prices. Other industries which
have fulfilled equivalent conditions have had
no trouble in ousting the foreigner from the
British market. To-day our dairying ind is-
try is more valuable to us in gross export
return than the wool industry because it has
studied its market, organised its cost, stand-
ardised its products so that its brands mean
something, and “trustified” its marketing on
a co-operative basis so that it can produce
and ship at minimum figures, take care of
bad seasons for the whole industry, equal-
ise seasonal marketing and publicly stand
up against political oppression, overseas
middlemen and outside competition. But,
basically, its success lies in the fact that
it has turned to the co-operative system for
business purposes and to the purebred for
production.
A generation ago the North Coast
districts of N. S. Wales included ex-
tensive areas in which the direst poverty
reigned and the ’possum-skin cap was the
symbol of the farmers’ condition. To-day
those districts are some of the richest in the
world, because of dairying organisation. The
Australian dairy cow holds the world record
for butter production easily, I doubt if the
first two thousand cows m Australia would
not eclipse the first two thousand for output
in any other country of the world. The
average dairy herd in Australia to-day is
far above the average British herd in
quality. The wool industry stands on its
own feet because its product is the best of
its kind in the world, because it meets the
requirement of the markets for which it is
destined, and because its marketing is organ-
ised.
But moat? Five years ago I visited the
ports of Britain with the delegation of the
Australian Meat Council, and the reasons
for the condition of our meat industry were
readily apparent. It is true that the very
best of our carcases compared favorably in
quality with those of the Argentine, but they
were isolated carcases. Most of our lines
were uneven in weight, and the wrong
weight. Many of tliem —and the mutton was
worse than the beef—were marred by bruises
caused in rail transit, and generally speak-
ing, to our shame, the Argentine outshone
us. The Argentine lines were recognisable
at once by the fact that every carcase was
that of a young beast, and every line was
so uniform in size, weight and other charac-
teristics that it seemed as if all the animals
in the Argentine were twins. This standard-
isation works for ease of handling and eco-
nomical buying and selling.
The Argentinian realises that the taste of
the British buyer of beef is governed by
local British standards. The buyer wants
beef of. the kind grown in England and Scot-
land. Therefore, the Argentinian not only
breeds his stock from quick-maturing and
high-class pure-bred stock, but from that
kind of early pure-bred and early-maturing
stock which is the fashion in Scotland and
England. To do this he finds it necessary
to import large numbers of British bulls, but
he does it thoroughly. Indeed, he seeks to
pick the eyes out of the British bull market.
Two ships alone this year carried 24 Scot-
tish, English and Irish bulls to the Argen-
tine—more than we have imported in a
decade. It is a misdemeanor here to have
noxious vegetable weeds on one’s property,
but the noxious animal weed which does
infinitely more harm is allowed to flourish.
You cannot produce beef without proper
feeding. Whereas in Australia beef is bred
only on country which is esteemed little use
for any of the more remunerative industries,
in the Argentine, as in Britain and the
United States, the topping-off of cattle is a
small-farm business and it is recognised that
time is more costly than spare grain. If the
industry were economically organised in Aus-
tralia many of our coastal farms and wheat
areas would soon find that it paid them to
intensively feed and fatten a few steers.
Argentine chilled beef is indistinguishable
from much fresh meat, and Australia must
imitate her methods of transit and strive
towards landing her meat in Britain in a
condition equivalent to chilled.
The position of Australian meat m the
world market to-day is aptly represented by
quotations published in the Glasgow * Her-
ald” for the last week in June:
Prime Scottish live weight.. 43/- to 50/- per cwt.
English sides . . .. 5/- to 5/8 per st.
Argentine: Chilled hinds .. 3/8 to 4/2 ~ ~
Australian: Frozen hinds .. 2/9 to 2/11 „ ~
Our frozen sheep were 4d. in the mini-
mum and Sd. in the maximum below Maori-
land frozen sheep on a stone basis. How
can we expect to compete with the world in
meat products when the only beef we can
send them is esteemed to be worth oil p.c.
less on the minimum and 43 p.c. less on the
maximum wholesale price than any other
meat in the market?
LIOE-INFESTED FLOCKS.
“Pine Scrub”: During a recent trip
through N. S. Wales I was alarmed at the
number of liee-infested flocks I encountered.
We shall have to follow Victoria’s example
and make dipping of sheep compulsory. The,
damage to the wool caused by these vermin
results in a large national loss annually
and the careless sheepman is a menace to
his fellow graziers. While lice are preva-
lent sheep may be infested along the stock
routes, in trucking yards and trucks, or by
drovers throwing weak sheep into the handi-
est paddock.
Stock inspectors are doing their best to
control this pest, but though they are em-
powered to quarantine and compel the dip-
ping- of infested flocks they will never clean
them up until every owner is enforced to
dip annually. Many owners are endeavor-
ing to economise by not dipping every year,
but that is no economy.
I noticed also during my tour that there
is a large number of shower-dips in use,
their chief virtue being the fact that ewes
on the point of lambing may be dipped
without risk. Except for that advantage
the swim-dip appeals as the more effective.
POINTS IN WOOLCLASSING.
“Xerophyte”: Watch the handling of
skirtings and especially broken fleece. Some
of the best wool, sound, bulky and free from
dust, is included in this. In a mixed flock
it is essential, prior to shearing, to draft
into two or three mobs as even as possible.
Remember that the skirtings from every
sheep go into this line; and, unless some
separation is made, the result is a line
of wool containing everything from coarse
crossbred to very fine, heavy-conditioned
wool from old ewes. It is practically im-
possible to value this accurately, so the
buyer classes it as “doubtful” and gives
himself the benefit of the doubt. Moreover,
there is seldom time, and few owners have
the ability, to separate these wools on the
table. Hence the wisdom of drafting, which
also makes classing of fleece wool easier.
In larger clips, shoulder and breech pieces
should be kept separate by means of two
baskets, one at each end of the rolling table.
You thus automatically make two- lines, as
shoulder wool is always finer and carries
less burr than that off the breech.
THE N.S.W. RABBIT MENACE.
“Valerin”: Rabbits are again menacing
N.S.W., and the niggardly policy of pas-
toral financial institutions is largely respon-
sible. From the west and near-west the
pest is relentlessly moving east. People who
are saying Bunny won’t invade the settled
areas are due for a shock; I heard the same
yarn nearly 50 years ago and believed it—
I know better now. Only the keenest vigi-
lance will check the wave. Netted bounda-
ries must be rigidly inspected and anything
under three feet built up with “foot” netting;
gates, creeks and wash-outs should receive
particular attention, and P.P- Boards should
be permitted to erect barriers and netted
gates at strategic points.
Digging out rabbits is too costly ; in badly-
infested areas poisoned thistle roots, using
the formula in The Bulletin's “Hints for
the Farm,” give excellent results. On moder-
ately infested holdings the best method is
for a responsible person with a pack of dogs
to scout ahead of the fumigating outfit, driv-
ing the rabbits into the burrows, which
should be plainly indicated by some sign.
This saves the time of the fumigators and
ensures a good job. It is essential when
fumigating to mop up all stray rabbits to
prevent re-opcning of burrows. Logs and
other cover should be destroyed as far as
it is practicable.
MULGA GRASS.
“Mulyan”: A valuable indigenous fodder
that is little heard of outside north-west
N.S.W. is mulga grass. It could be cultivated
with advantage in many parts of Australia.
A short, hardv grass, it grows thickly, form-
ing a soft lawn-like sward, and retains its
succulence and greenness even in summer.
It is relished by horses, sheep and cattle,
which quickly fatten on it, and hold their
condition on the road.
A drover with weak or poor cattle likes to
come on a patch' of this grass, and Hog o1 ’
on it if he can, for it has a refreshing effect
on them. Teamsters also value the grass,
with a mixture of mulga leaves, as a sus-
taining forage for their horses and bullocks.
It stands close grazing, and after being fed
down will spring up quickly again after a
shower of rain. Being a short, thick grower,
mulga grass makes a fine pasture for sheep,
especially eves and lambs, or fattening
lambs for. market where cultivated forage is
not available.
There are two species of this grass, both
having deeply penetrating roots, which en-
able them to withstand long periods of
drought. They are useful also for prevent-
ing soil erosion, as their velvety surface
forms a mat over which water runs without
doing any damage, whilst their roots bind
the soil.
WHEAT-GROWING IN QUEENSLAND.
“Toongooroo”: Queensland wheat is all
grown on the Darling Downs. The secre-
tary of the State Wheat Board chirruped
the other day that “the figures speak volumes
for the adaptability of the Downs for wheat-
growing.” With certain reservations they do ;
but the reservations are so important that
they ought to get more consideration. The
yield per acre from the black-soil areas of the
Downs is high—it averages about 16 bushels,
and soars up to 25 —it can be produced with-
out the heavy costs for fertiliser that have
to be met in less - favored areas, and the
price per acre for land is below that asked
for and paid in the great wheat-producing
belts of N. S. Wales, Victoria and South
Aus.
But the black soil is not the soil for
wheat-production. It is too rich. In a good-
rainfall season the tendency is to lush
growth, rust and soft grain; but such a
season for wheat is the exception. More
often than not, things are upside down—it’s
dry in the planting season and wet at har-
vest time. That is the nigger in the w T oodpile
of Avlieat-growing on the Downs. And when
you get that nigger out and have a good
look at him he is pretty ugly. too. Some
Victorians, and others, who have jumped to
conclusions —and anyone who sees the Downs
in a favorable season is liable to jump to
conclusions —have now wakened up to the
hard facts of the case. One crop in three
is a fair average for the Downs; others
contend one in five is nearer the mark.
The Downs is one of Australia’s richest
belts of country, but) wheat will never be
its long suit. The finest wheat can be pro-
duced in soils far less fertile and in greater
sweep—where it is being produced in great-
est quantity at present. The Downs are
definitely marked by Nature for dairying and
pig-production. Redemption is waiting for
many Queenslanders along those two avenues
of development far more surely than along
lines of trying to produce wheat where
fodder crops for Strawberry and Blossom
should be the order of the day.
CULTURAL DRAINING.
“Agri” : A method of overcoming soil ero-
sion on wheat land has been demonstrated at
Reefton, N.S.W., by the manager of the
Temora experimental farm, under the aus-
pices of the local Agricultural Bureau.
Called “cultural draining,” it consists of a
series of low and gradually-sloped banks
carrying excess water across the slope at the
uniform fall of one inch in sixteen feet. A
“level” to mark out the course of the banks
can be made from four pieces of timber and
a spirit level. The two legs stand 16 feet
apart, and one is one inch shorter than the
other. The spirit level is attached to the
upper piece of timber connecting the two
legs. When the spirit shows level, the one
end of the “level” is one inch lower than the
other. A wooden peg is inserted at the lower
end, and the next level is taken with the
longer end placed against that peg, and so
on, across the field. The water may thus be
carried across the hillside to a roadway,
fence or a creek.
The distance between banks, which will be
more or less parallel, depends upon the steep-
ness of the slope to be drained. Where the
hill is fairly steep, four or five chains is the
limit; where the slope becomes more gradual,
fifteen chains may be allowed. Banks are
constructed by ploughing a piece 16 to 20
yards wide along the course marked out, and
grading the loose earth to a gradual bank
in the centre. Thus the soil is not denuded
of the surface necessary for the crop. Where
the bank passes across an old gutter or
water-course, some extra reinforcement
should be made.
It is advisable for the first year to plough
and work the field parallel with the drains.
After that, implements may be used across
the banks without destroying their efficacy.
This way of protecting cultivated soil from
erosion should he applicable, with modifica-
tions, to other than wheat land.
LIMESTONE SAND.
“B. Ware”: Sand is defined as finely-
divided particles of silicious rock, but
usually is regarded as meaning small and
fairly even particles of quartz (silica).
Beach sand is usually more or less impure
quartz, and is noted for its poverty in plant
food and soluble matter. “McNoon” (B.
20/7/’32) is quite correct in stating that
the beach sand occurring at Warrnambool
is calcareous, but I think he is a bit high
in his quote of the lime content, evjn assum-
ing he means “mild lime” (calcium car-
bonate).
The sand hummocks of this coast, stretch-
ing as far west as Port Fairy, consist of
limestone sand of varying quality, which is
derived from the grinding and pound-
ing action of the ocean on the calcareous
freestone typical of this district. Some of
the hummocks on the west side of Warrnam-
bool are fairly pure, analysing about 84 p.c.
calcium carbonate, but the average quality
over all would probably not exceed 75 p.c.
This is quite good when the immensity of the
deposit, its situation and ease of handling
are considered.
Results obtained locally from top-dressing
with the stuff have been, as “McNc-on”
states, most impressive, but “Mac” forgot
to say how much sand was applied per
acre. Top-dressing from 20 to 25 loads per
acre gave remarkable growth to pasture and
improved its quality. Better still, it de-
layed maturity to such an extent that the
top-dressed paddock was still green in the
middle of November, whereas the untreated
paddock went dry (mature) five weeks
earlier. Still, although these results are
generally known, and the sand can be had
for the carting, plus a nominal charge per
drayload (irrespective of the size of the
dray), the local farmers do not rush the
sand —perhaps it is too cheap.
Limestone sand is particularly suitable
for top-dressing in conjunction with super.,
and, if placed in depots in bulk throughout
the country, it will be a godsend to the
farming community in general, particularly
if the price is reasonable and if the farmers
recognise that a five-ton dressing one year
in five is a more economical proposition than
an annual dressing of a ton. If time and
the state of the finances won’t permit the
whole of the paddock to be top-dressed with
the sand in the one year, don’t decrease tin-
dressing ; far better to spread the job over
a period of years. The time to do the work
is when you and the hands are slack; and
remember this —lime and lime without
manure will make both farm and farmer
poor.
USES FOR SUMP OIL.
“Saldanha”: Sump oil can be used with
great benefit on properties infested with
noxious growths, such as briars or black-
berries. I have found no method of dealing
with briars growing among rocks so satis-
factory as cutting off the tops, letting the
new shoots attain a growth of a few inches,
and then dressing with the oil. In my
experience this nearly always kills with one
application. Masses of blackberries, if
sprayed with a mixture of the cheapest kero-
sene and sump oil (in warm weather you
will only require about one part of kero, to
three of oil), in two or three weeks can be
burned off clean, and any aftermath of suck-
ers if lightly sprayed or sprinkled again will
die off, and with them a great proportion of
the root-stocks. Should some come again
they can be gone over again with a small
sprayer or watering-can.
For boats, oars and outdoor tool-handles
I know of no dressing so good as two parts
of the oil mixed with one of linseed oil:
the former disappears into the wood and the
latter forms a durable protective film on the
outside. This is a better protective dress-
ing for gates than tar. Or tar can be added,
either to the mixed oils or to the sump oil
alone, resulting in a much increased spread-
ing, penetrating and protective effect. A
really good axle-grease can also be made at
trifling cost by mixing sump oil with a good
firm tallow in proportions according to the
purpose and the season of use. Sump oil
is also more useful than paint on the beds
of farm vehicles, from which any paint is
soon scraped off. Of course, for any of
these purposes the oil should be strained
before using.
THE RIGHT CASE FOR ORANGES.
“W. 0.”: Best results on the London
market have been obtained with f-bushel
cases. In these, Navels have brought up to 1
(Continued on next page.)


‘■-"V
*M
%
Smooth-fitting pliancy
Its glossy calf upper is smoothly
lined with soft leather. . . .there are
stout elastic ankle-pieces to preserve
resilience and close fit. . . .and the
sole is of the toughest leather
obtainable. In design, too, this
Abbey Riding Boot offers exclusive
features. Made on a special
Abbey last, the upper is shaped in
a curve where it lies over the instep
arch. There’s no strain anywhere.
The boot draws on easily. . . .fits
with perfect smartness and comfort.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF .. 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
FPL 296
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
RuralTopics.D/3»irying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
.. Notes Etc .... All in
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6-
How to Fit Yourself
for Life’s Fight
It is up to you to say whether you
will be nervous, weak, sickly, or whe-
ther you shall glow with vitality and
strength. It is now possible to pro-
long your life and rule your health just
as you govern your actions. You can
throw off the shackles of advancing age
—step back into youth—become virile,
vigorous. You can rekindle your old
energies, put more vim into your work
and play, and make every organ of your
body act as Nature intended.
Modern methods of eating, lack of
exercise cause weakness and flabbiness
of the abdominal organs. Particles of
decaying food waste are not completely
evacuated. This waste encrusts and
accumulates in the creases of the in-
testine, and harbors disease-breeding
germs, which enter the system and pol-
lute the blood. Result is dreaded self-
poisoning {autoxima) , from which nine
out of ten suffer—caused by hidden and
unsuspected constipation. This self-
poisoning is the origin of constipation,
headaches, indigestion, gas in stomach,
and bowels, catarrh, weakness, rheu-
matism, neuritis, eczema, pimples, etc.,
and hosts of other ailments.
You and practically everyone else is
more or less in the grip of autoxima.
But you can change this by washing
away the germ-laden mass with
COLOSEPTIC. It promptly rids you .
of self-poisoning. Gently, without
griping, COLOSEPTIC loosens and dis-
solves off the encrusted waste, and then
passes it smoothly out of the body. It
rids the system of all circulatory im-
purities through the other outlets pro-
vided for that purpose—the kidneys—
pores of the skin—and respiratory ap-
paratus. You can get COLOSEPTIC
in regular full-size jars, from all chem-
ists. Send 1/- stamps or postal note
to COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD, Dept.
<44, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney,
for a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC, and the interesting
book “Autoxima.”
SAF
Duplicate Parts. Combs and
Cutters.
Accurately made, correctly
hardened.
Perfectly finished.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SPRAY
PUMPS
y
&
We carry large stocks of all types of Spray Pumps,
the most popular of which are:
“LE SANS RIVAL.” A Pump with a non-cor-
rosive copper tank, capable of holding 3 i gal.
Supplied with hose, 18-inch brass extension, and
two nozzles. Fitted with double strainer. Carried
on back as knapsack.
LEAD-LINED KNAPSACK SPRAY PUMPS. For
use with Sulphuric and other acids. A very useful
Spray for vines and market gardens.
BUCKET SPRAY PUMPS. Several makes of these
handy Pumps are available.
“REGA” PNEUMATIC KNAPSACK SPRAY. (As
illustrated.) Capacity, 3 gals. Made of special
brass alloy. Each pump is tested to 601 b. pressure.
Full particulars and prices of above Sprays will
be sent on request.
Propridanj limited
Dependable Goods Since 180.).
582-592 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
1-65 Bathurst St., Sydney
Jl6-130 Waymouth St.,
Adelaide
532 Murray St., Perth
305.; Valencias, 285.; Joppas, 255. The
next best were trays sent cased together in
threes; then came flat bushel cases (two-
compartment). I have shipped from West-
ralia to London, Batavia and Sydney, be-
sides North Westralia, and, except on one
occasion when flat bushels were used, have
always used £ bushels for destinations out-
side the State.
The .11-bushel case (24 x 111 x 111) advo-
cated so often is unsuitable. Those who pre-
fer it apparently do not take into considera-
tion difference in travelling time. Other
citrus-exporting countries can send fruit to
their overseas markets in one week to three
weeks. Our times are mostly from four to
eight weeks. The greater the area of the
compartment in which the oranges are
packed, the greater the pressure on the out-
side fruit necessary to make the package
compact for a long journey.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Correct time to top-dress grassland
at Darlington Pomt ( N.S.W .) f Where there
is a good autumn and winter growth, would
it he beneficial to top-dress then or in the
spring, or both? (2) Correct time to dress
lucerne and amount of super, to use in both
cases? (3) Chemical action of super, and,
ivliat elements does it supply to plant, or
soil? —1198.
(1) and (2) The best time to top-dress
natural grass country is in the autumn, but
in your district the response would be too
small for top-dressing to be economical. One
cwt. super, per acre is generally applied.
Lucerne should he top-dressed with 1 to 11
cwt. per acre, after a good cultivation, dur-
ing August. (3) Much of the phosphate in
it is water-soluble and what is not absorbed
by plants enters into more or less insoluble
combinations with' various soil constituents.
In acid soils containing much iron, excess
phosphate forms compounds which plants
cannot utilise. Although often referred to
as “acid phosphate,” super, has no effect
on soil reaction, and neither increases nor
decreases soil acidity. Of the dozen or so
elements that plants need, super, provides
three —phosphorous, lime and sulphur.
Cause and cure of scabs on the mouths
of lambs? —1687.
Caused by a virus. Cases result from
accidental inoculation of small abrasions by
scab particles which have fallen to the
ground from previously affected sheep. Sheep
which have recovered from an attack of the
disease are immune from further infection.
The use of mild antiseptic solutions and
antiseptic fatty or oily dressings is very
satisfactory, especially if commenced early.
Excellent results have been obtained by
dressing with five p.c. solution of bluestone
in water. This is followed by a dressing
made up of five parts coal tar dip, 10 parts
sublimed sulphur, 100 parts tallow, vaseline
or lard. As the disease is infectious affected
sheep should, if possible, be drafted off and
isolated.
How to clean a rusty grinding disc, used
for grinding combs and cutters? —-1618.
Soften the rust with kerosene and scrape
it off. Before glueing on fresh emery cloth
wash the disc with warm water and soap
and dry it thoroughly. If the face of the
disc is badly pitted it can be refaced to
gauge and re-balanced at a cost of 7s. 6d.
by Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., Palmer-street, Sydney.
(1) What is meant by line breeding
applied to cattle? (2) flow is it done? (3)
lioohs on subject and where procurable in
Melbourne,? —l4l6.
(1) and (2) It consists of mating animals
of the same general line of descent. A line-
bred herd or flock is extremely uniform, a
characteristic almost invaluable (if the type
be good) in animal breeding. (3) Rice’s
“Breeding and Improvement of Farm Ani-
mals.,” obtainable through any bookseller.
(1) Could strawberries or figs be success-
fully grown for market on the N.B.W. South
Coast within 50 miles of Sydney, near the
sea? (2) Books on the cultivation of these
fruits, and where procurable? —lsss.
(1) Strawberries can be successfully
grown on the South Coast provided they
have water during dry periods. Fig-trees
will grow well, but in moist climates the
figs are likely to sour. (2) Bulletin on
strawberry-growing from N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department, 7d. posted. Agricultural
Department, Adelaide, issues a bulletin on
fig-growing.
I have tiro Japanese blood-plum trees.
Although covered with blossoms last year
only about half a dozen formed fruit. What
is the reason and how can I prevent this
happening again this season? —1525.
These plums cannot be expected to give
a full crop unless they arc in close proximity
to another suitable variety, which blooms
about the same time, such as Wickson or
Santa Rosa. Insert flowering branches of
Wickson or Santa Rosa, in tins of water,
among the branches of the blood-plum trees.
In order to have a permanent pollcniser
a tree of Santa Rosa or Wickson should be
planted near the trees; better still, limbs of
Wickson or Santa Rosa should be grafted
or budded into the existing trees.
How to prevent dogs eating eggs? —l6sB.
Blow an egg and fill it with mustard and
cayenne pepper mixed. Put the egg in the
dog’s mouth and work his jaws up and down
on it to make sure he gets a good mouthful.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Floodmark”: My stock horses are feed-
ing on dry, rough grass, it is of little nutri-
tive value, but 21b. of oats at a regular
time each day keeps them in good fettle. I
use a 701 b. sugar bag turned half-way down
as a nosebag, with a piece of green’hide to
go over the ears —feeding them this way
none of the grain is wasted.
“M.W.8,”: When horses are sanded, it
is the usual procedure to make the animal
roll to assist in dislodging the sand. Rub
a little turpentine along the backbone and
he’ll roll all right!
“Dimon”: With a number of shallow
cigar-boxes you can make a useful cabinet
for farm and garden seeds. Get a handy-
sized case, nail in partitions lengthwise and
then crosswise, making the compartments
the size of the boxes —which, placed therein,
arc so many drawers —and screw on to the
front of each the half of a small cotton reel.
This chest is also convenient for keeping
small articles, such as packing needles and
tiles, that so frequently get misplaced.
“Bill It.’’: Where no slip-panel is at
hand and it is necessary to get a horse
hastily through a wire fence, wrap the
saddle-cloth round a strand of the wire at or
near a straining post. Grab wrapping with
both hands and pull lustily back and forth.
After about half-a-dozen such heaves any
wire will break.
“Mundowie” : I once had a hand in making
a tank with kero, tins on a station near
the Paroo. The tank, which received the
water from a well, to run into sheep troughs,
was 20ft. long, 12ft wide and sft. deep:
the tins had been collected from far and
near, the tops and bottoms cut off, and each
opened at the seam down the side and
straightened out. A strong outer casing was
first made with scantling and rough boards,
and the sheets of tin nailed on in rows with
strong clouts. Tarred hessian was placed
under the joints, and the surface when com-
pleted was given two coats of tar. The
troughs were made of similar material.
“Long Island”: Needing covering material
for a coop, and not having petrol tins to
cut up, I used a number of old Bulletins.
Having made the frame with laths, arranged
to take the size of The Bulletin opened
out, I pasted the leaves of each half together
so that when opened out I had a piece of
covering 17in. by 22in. These were tacked
on to the laths with §in. clouts. A coating
of hot tar made the job look neat and uni-
form, and, what is more, durable and
watertight.
“Gumblegubbin”: A good brooder is a
section of a big hollow log. Board the back
end, and put a bit of casing in the bottom
to make a level floor, and a wire netting
door in front, so that it can be closed at
night against cats. The hollow log also
makes a good kennel.
“Hornby”: If a first-season cow shows
signs of being a bad kicker during milking
try one of these two treatments ; I’ve found
both effective: (1) Just before milking
place a small box of feed in front of her.
When she kicks, remove it and lash the
leg uncomfortably back. After a few lessons
she will allow herself to be milked without
protest so long as the feed is there. (2)
Place a sheet of disused glass (old window
pane or the like) where the kicking hoof
will strike it on the backward stroke. A
thin glass bottle filled with uncomfortably
hot water is even more effective. Few cows
will have the second kick.
“Poley” : To make a calf muzzle that will
not be a torment to the animal, take a piece
of _ willow 6-Jin. long by 4Jin. wide by Jin.
thick, and with a sharp knife cut it into an
oval shape, leaving 4in. of square top line.
In the centre of this line cut an oval for
the nose 2in. wide by fin. deep, leaving Jin.
of wood at top ; and in this at centre cut a
small gap, making ends as smooth as pos-
sible. For a9to 12 months calf this width
should be just sufficient to force the end of
index finger at nail through it. Place slot
in left nostril, slowly work up towards fore-
head and gently twist over to right nostril,
and muzzle slips comfortably into position.
Take it out as soon as the calf is weaned
and store it away; with care they will last
for years.
“J.A.S.”: Milk as it comes from the cow
is 87 p.c. water, yet the necessity for a
clean supply often does not occur to the
dairy-farmer who hag. a creek where Straw-
berry can get a drink. What happens when
Strawberry has only a dirty water-course to
drink from? She is too much of a lady
to give dirty milk, so she refines it. But
the refining process takes energy, and her
production goes below what it would be with
a clean supply. This is apart from the
disease germs and filth spread under insani-
tary conditions.
“Werrimee” : “Wrash’s” method of burning
out stumps (B. 10/8/’32) is correct, but
don’t burn them on or near a field where
wheat is to be sown. Fire will sometimes
follow a long root for months. I remember
a field of wheat that was g,et on fire by
such a root, which came near the surface
in the crop, the stump having been burnt
out before the. sowing. For the same reason
it is dangerous to burn stumps near a
building.
“Mulgo”: Old thin horseshoes (slippers)
with a little cutting and trimming on the
anvil, make good boot protectors, particularly
for heels and toes of heavy boots where the
going is rough'. They also make keys for
bullock bows, and small wedges for various
purposes.
“Car C.”: Some fencers leave only an
inch or two above the top hole when boring,
with the result that if the post cracks the
wire lifts out. This lifting is greater in un-
even country. Cut the posts long enough to
allow at least 4in. above the top wire.
“Groper”: In the haystack of the farmer
who means to make ends meet these times,
there are no such things as mice. When
building the stack sprinkle every third row
of sheaves with sulphur. Shake it out of a
tin with a perforated lid, and sprinkle rather
more generously towards the edges of the
stack. Crude sulphur is not expensive, and
101 b. is enough for a 50-ton stack It is
harmless to stock, but I have yet to meet the
mouse that will come within ten yards of a
stack so treated.
“Rastus” : An old bullock yoke pin makes
a good fence-strainer for broken wires. Make
a loop of wire and attach it to one broken
end ; pull the other broken end through the
loop and through the slot in the pin. Twist,
and finish in usual way.
“Aldridge”: Recent Australian references
to lamb-marking rather bewildered this
Maorilander. I have had a lot of experience,
both in hill country and in paddocks, in the
South Island, and have never found any
difficulty in getting ewes and lambs to mother
up if the ewes have any milk at all. A yard
is erected on the block, the sheep are mus-
tered in and yarded, and tailing and mark-
ing are proceeded with systematically with no
undue haste. Let 10 or 12 ewes out, if vou
like, before you start, just to steady the first
few lambs that are done; then leave them
alone until the job is finished. Pull down
your yards if you want to take them with
you, and go on to the next block. A butcher’s
steel is not suitable for sharpening the knife,
as it leaves a saw edge


Our Service DEpartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All yon have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Tlie right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Handy man wants situation on station in N.S.W.
or Q’land. —1663.
Tea expert requires part- or full-time work. —1599.
Ex-Digger (55th Batt., A.1.F.), newspaper and
customs exp., seeks employment of any sort. —1637.
Grazier, N.S.W., requiring more capital for stock
and improvements, wants working partner with
£3OO to £lOOO.-1638.
Managing law clerk, N.S.W., seven years’ exp.
country, has served articles and is doing final exams.,
seeks position city or country. Refs. —1776.
Hawkesbury graduate (25), four years’ exp. wheat
and sheep Central West N.S.W., wants employment.
—1707.
Mercantile marine officer (34), square-rig training,
married, speaks Spanish, French, Hindustani and
Malay, exp. as stevedoring and shipping agent,
desires employment.—l69B.
N.S.W. business man, 38, single, recovering from
breakdown in health, desires accommodation as paying
guest on farm or station, preferably bachelor estab-
lishment. —1528.
Words of “The Bullocky’s Last Prayer.”—l63l.
Words of the choruses of the soldier songs, “When
We’ve Wound-up the Watch on the Rhine,” “Jolly
Good Luck to the Girl Who Loves a Soldier,” “Oh,
It’s a Lovely War” and “Take Me Back to Dear
Old Blighty.”—l632.
Particulars of rabbit pit trap, including dimen-
sions.—l72o.
Small quantity of wilga seed. —1271.
To buy Henry Lawson MSS., letters, “Short
Stories” 1894, and first editions and large paper
copies of Lawson’s books. —1700.
To buy bound volume of “Yando,” paper published
by 7th Brigade Artillery Reg. during the war ; also
“The Billy Book.”—1709.
To buy “Webster’s Dictionary,” unabridged, latest
edition. —1696.
To exchange, 1929-31 “Popular Science Maga-
zines for copies of “The Aeroplane” or other books
dealing with aviation. —1681.
Words of verse beginning “The stockman’s evening
meal was o’er, the damper stowed away.”—l7l2.
Information Sought.
(1) What nation holds the world's record
for railway speed, and conditions undn
which record teas madef (2) Fastest rail-
way speed ever recorded j when and where . —-
1699. , .
(1) Britain. On June 5 last a train carry-
ing passengers on an ordinary time-table run,
and consisting of six corridor cars, weighing
195 tons, drawn by one locomotive, covered
the G.W.R. run from Swindon to Padding-
ton, 77.3 miles, in 56min. 47sec., an average
speed, start to stop, of 81.68 m.p.li. Sche-
dule time is 67 minutes. Maximum speed
reached was 92 m.p.h., and for 21 miles a
speed of 90 m.p.h. was maintained. 12)
On the G.W.R. line, on a down-grade, Well-
ington Bank, in Somerset, 101.3 m.p.h. was
registered over half a mile towards the end
of last century.
(1) Do any Australian "birds when their
nests or young are attached adopt pretences
to lure the attacker away from the nests?
(2)J90 any adopt methods of concealment or
camouflage at the approach of an enemy.
— 1639. , . . , . . .
(1) Some Australian birds pretend to be
wounded when their nests or young are
approached, and flutter along the ground in
an effort to decoy the intruder from the
locality. This habit is most marked among
the ducks, plovers and chats, but is some-
times exhibited by birds of other families.
(2) The bitterns when alarmed freeze into
a rigid attitude, with the long neck and beak
pointing straight upwards and the wings
pressed close to the sides. In this attitude
they are very inconspicuous among the reeds
which they frequent. The stone-curlew and
frogmouth also adopt a rigid attitude for
concealment, the neck being stretched out
in front and the eyes almost closed. The
curlew crouches on the ground; the frog-
mouth rests lengthwise on a bough; in these
positions their mottled plumage gives them
a striking resemblance to a dead bough.
(1) In the mutiny of the Bounty ho to
many stuck to Bligh and how many joined
Christianf (2) How large teas the open
boat allotted to Bligh and his followers? (3)
What food and drink were they given? (4)
How long were they afloat in the open boat,
and how far did they travel? —1641.
(1) Eighteen stood by Bligh, and 24 fol-
lowed Christian. (2) Twenty feet long,
6ft. 9in. beam, 2ft. 9in. deep. (3) 321 b.
pork, 1501 b. biscuits, a 28-gallon cask of
water, six quarts of rum and six bottles of
wine. (4) They were 41 days afloat and
travelled 3600 miles.
How do the N.S.W. taxation authorities
arrive at the general exemption allowable
in the case of income derived partly from
personal exertion and partly from property?
—1512.
Personal exertion and property incomes
are aggregated, and the exemption which
would be allowed in each case if the total
income were derived from one source only
is ascertained. Each exemption is then
apportioned in the ratio of the net income
from that source over the total net income.
If the total net income is £6OO or over no
exemption is allowed on income from pro-
perty.
What is the Russian 0.G.P.U.? —1545.
It is the Soviet State Political Depart-
ment, once called the Tcheka, which is de-
signed to combat political and economic
counter-revolution, espionage and brigand-
age in Russia.
(1) In criminal and civil trials in N.S.W.
how many jurors .can be challenged? (2)
Must juries in both criminal and civil trials
register a unanimous verdict, and is there
any time limit on their deliberations.
(1) Accused persons and the Crown each
have the right to challenge eight jurors, in
criminal cases and 20 in capital cases with-
out assigning reasons. In civil cases twice
the number of jurors required are summoned,
and one-fourth of the number may be struck
off by each party to the case. (2) In crimi-
nal cases the verdict of the jury must be
unanimous. Where agreement is not
reached within 12 hours the jury may be
discharged, and the accused tried before an-
other jury. In civil cases a verdict of three-
fourths of the jury may be accepted after
six hours’ deliberation. Failing agreement
within 12 hours the jury is discharged and
a new trial held.
When did the strike among the natives
at Rabaul occur, and what was the out-
come? Was the strike fomented by agita-
tors from Australia? —1644. .
On January 2 and 3, 1929, practically the
whole of the natives and native police in
the town dropped work and attended mass
meetings, but were eventually persuaded to
return to their duties. Brig.-Gen. Griffiths,
who inquired into the matter, reported that it
was the result of the talk of foreign sailors
to two natives.
What happened to the big schemes for
manufacturing nitrogen from the air, elec-
trically, about which so much was heard
in war-time? —1560.
Electrical systems of extraction have not
proved profitable. The arc process was
worked for a while in Norway, where there
is very cheap hydro-electric power, but even
there it is giving way to the Ilaber-Bosch
system, which uses principally air, coal and
water. Of 126 plants in existence’ 91 are
on the 11.-B. principle. The very large Brit-
ish works at Billingham. Stockton-on-Tees,
were established by the Government in the
early years of the war to provide nit-
rates for explosives. They were taken oyer
by Brunner. Mond and Co. in 1923, and in
1926 became one o* the enterprises of Im-
perial Chemical Industries, with which
Brunner, Mond and other great firms amal-
gamated. This is now a Haber-Bosch plant,
the machinery being installed five years ago.
About £20,000,000 has been spent on Bill-
ingham, which now has a capacity for pro-
ducing 600 tons of nitrogen a day. There
are two very large H.-B. plants in Germany.
A large plant was recently set up in Japan,
and there is a small one working near
Johannesburg, S’Africa.
(1) Suitable pencils and surfaces for
making pencil sketches for the press? (2)
Is satin-board suitable? (3) Does a com-
bination of pencil and wash reproduce satis-
factorily? ' (4) How do artists like Towns-
hend and Percival achieve the variations in
tone in the wash drawings they do? (5)
How to send drawings through the post? —-
1050.
(1) (a) Any sort of lead pencil (not too
hard), Academy chalk, conte, charcoal;
( b ) ivory-board, Bristol board or any good
drawing paper mounted on strawboard. (2)
Yes, it is used to facilitate the scraping out
of whites. (3) Yes, but use a little soap
on the brush with the wash. Conte pencil
is the more suitable. (4) By using process
black or lamp black. (5) Pack flat with
pieces of strawboard on each side, or use a thin
ivory board, and roll into a circular card-
board container designed for the purpose and
procurable from shops selling artists’
materials.
I wish to enter the mercantile marine.
(1) In what capacity must 1 start? (2)
Chances of employment? (3) Outfit re-
quired? (4) Cost? —1432.
(1) As deck-boy, trimmer, steward or
apprentice (four years’ indenture). Appren-
tice pays a premium of £52 10s. (2) Not
very bright. (3) A good supply of work-
ing clothes, together with oilskins, etc. An
apprentice in addition to these requires uni-
forms. (4) For ratings other than an
apprentice about £5. For an apprentice
about £l5.
(1 ) Where to apply for a job on the
Oodnadatta- Alice Springs railway line?
(2) Wages paid to fettlers or permanmt-
way men? (3) Is construction work going
on from’ Alice Springs to Darwin? —1387.
(1) Chief Engineer of Way and Works,
Commonwealth Railways, Poi-t Augusta,
S.A. (2) Fettlers 11s. Bd. per day. plus
6d. per day when engaged in flying gangs.
Employees stationed from Hawker, (ex-
cluded) to Marree (included) are paid dis-
trict allowance of 3s. 6d. per week; when
located north of Marree, 7s. per week. (3)
No.
llow to prevent a driving-belt from slip-
ping on a 4 in. pulley? —ls49.
Get correct tension on the belt. A com-
fortable working strain for a single belt is
about 501 b. for every inch of breadth. For
driving pulleys of 4in. diameter and under
the belt ought to be barely £in. thick, and
as wide as the pulley. A preparation is sold
by Gregory and Co., 74 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney.
Measurements of a tennis court, and. the
quantity of cement required to cover it? —
1429.
Court, 78ft. by 36ft. Allow 2ft extra at
least at the sides of the court and 7ft. at
each end. Using a mixture of one of cement,
two and a half of sand and four of crushed
stone, for a court 4in. thick, the base course,
Sin. thick, will take 146 c. ft. of cement,
362 c. ft. of sand, 579 c. ft. of crushed stone.
For the surface course, lin. thick, using a
mixture of one of cement and two of sand.
112 c. ft. of cement and 222 c. ft. of sand
will be required. Extra-.material, for sides
and ends in proportion. Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, will give full advice on
application.
How to clean old prints which have be-
come stained with time and have fly marh:s
on them? —1602. . .
Find if the paper is in sucli a condition as
will stand cleaning by shaking the print.
If it rattles or rustles it should be all right,
but if limp and noiseless it is probably
rotten. Examine the surface also for tiny
pinpoint blisters. If these appear, the risk
when cleaning is great. Tot clean, immerse
the print in a bath of one part soda chlorate
to 30 of water. Remove from the bath
before the stains are quite disappeared. Dry
print between sheets of dry, clean blotting
paper covered with a sheet of glass and a
weight. Fly marks, if not too frequent, can
be touched off with a fine camel-hair brush
dipped in soda chlorate, and grease spots
should yield to complete immersion in pet-
rol. To brighten the colors, if colored, wipe
over with a cloth dipped m a weak solution
of A.B.P. peroxide of hydrogen.
I am a housekeeper, in N.B.W. and re-
ceive £lO per month and keep. What Unem-
ployment Relief Tax should I pay? —l6s2.
Fourteen shillings a mouth, being Is. in
the £ on wages, plus value of board and
lodging, which is assessed at £1 per week.
Scale of sustenance payments in Victoria?
Are food-relief orders issued as in N.8.W.?
—1693.
Sustenance payments are distributed
through relief committees approved by the
Charities Board. The scale of payments is:
Bs. 6d. per week for man and wife, and
Is. 6d. per week additional for each child, up
to a maximum of 20s. 6d. per week for man,
wife and eight children; ss. for a single
person residing with strangers. Each
approved applicant is provided with an iden-
tification card, and orders for groceries,
meat, bread and milk are issued for a four-
weekly period to shopkeepers selected by
the applicant shown on the identification
card. The maximum prices that may be
charged for the commodities are fixed by the
Chief Secretary.
(1) I propose going for a cruise in the
Islands in a motor yacht. Is it necessary
for me to advise any Government depart-
ment of my intentions? (2) The party will
consist of four adults and two children.
Average amount of fresh water required each
day? (3) How to prevent water in tanks
becoming brackish? —1713.
(1) If the vessel is not registered and
you have no crew on signed articles you
need not advise any department, though it
will be necessary to obtain pratique on
entering a foreign port. (2) Take as much
as you possibly can and allow at least a
gallon per day each. (3) Fresh water won’t
become brackish provided you keep the sea
water out. Make sure all manholes, deck
plugs, etc., are screwed down tight and air
vents to tanks are placed so that they are
not exposed to sea water.
(1) Where in Australia can I get plans
and blueprints of a 20 ft. sea-going loat? (2)
Can I get in Australia “ready cut ” boats,
each piece of timber numbered, ready for me
to put together? If so where? (3) Where
to get a book on small-boat construction?
(4)' Paint to resist teredo and cobra worms?
—3480.
(1) and (3) Angus and Robertson.
Sydney. (2) No. (4) Major Bros., Sydney,
make a suitable anti-fouling paint.
(1) Does an unmarried rating in the
R.A.N. receive extra pay if he has to sup-
port a widowed mother? (2) Does a rating
receive an increase of pay on marrying?
(3) What is the object of deferred pay and
is interest paid on it? —1677.
(1) Yes, up to 14s. per week, varying
with dependant’s financial position. Allow-
ance is not payable where other unmarried
members of the family are in a position to
give adequate assistance. (2) Yes, 14s.
per week, which is further increased from
time to time (according to the number of
children dependent on him) up to a maxi-
mum of 355. per week. (3) Object is to
enable a member on retiring from the service
to make provision for his future. On June
30 of each year. 34 p.c. interest is added
to the amount of accumulated deferred pay
standing at the credit of each member on
June 30 of the previous year.
My son, aged 17, is a junior clerk in a
bank. What course of study would help him
to advance himself? —1676.
Accountancy and secretaryship should be
studied first, followed by specific banking
subjects, preferably for the Bankers’. Insti-
tute examinations, and with the object of
securing the Institute’s degree.
Can shellac be used for polishing linoleum,
and if so flow is it applied? —l634.
It can be used but is not recommended.
Mix 41b. of shellac in 4-gallon of methylated
spirits, and when dissolved, apply with a
brush. The linoleum should be thoroughly
cleaned before applying the shellac. There
are preparations on the market which are
much more suitable.
How to separate kerosene from water? —
1635.
Place the mixture in a long narrow glass
receptacle and allow it to stand. The kero-
sene will gradually rise to the top and may
then be drawn off by a syphon.
(1) I have a small shop and employ a girl
at £1 3s. 9d. to £1 10s. ( with overtime) per
week. Must I send in a N.S.W. Family
Endowment return? (2) What is the mini-
mum wage subject to unemployment relief
tax? —l34l.
(1) No. The tax is now paid by means
of family endowment contribution stamps,
affixed to the wages record in a manner
similar to that adopted for unemployment
relief tax purposes. The rate of contribution
is sd. in the £. Contribution is payable only
when the total amount of wages paid to
all employees exceeds £3 per week. (2) £2
a week.
(1) I wish to make paper translucent for
lampshades. What sort of paper should be
used? (2) How is it done? (3) Will it,
take water-colbrs as well as oil-paint? —l723.
(1) Manilla paper is very suitable. (2)
Paint front and back with equal parts of
linseed oil and turpentine. (3) For oil,
make the paper translucent before painting
the design; with water-colors, paint the de-
sign before oiling the paper.
Brief Answers,
C.W.8.: If the building can be removed in
its entirety without in any way interfering with
the land or the building on which it abuts, it may
be claimed to be removeable as tenant’s property.
. ...R.R.: (1) No information may be published
concerning disposition of coastal defences. (2)
Maintenance of law and order or. Thursday Island
is the responsibility of the Q’land Government, not
of the Defence Department 1.A.G.: It is suggested
by some that O.K. was a misreading of 0.R., an
abbreviation of “ordered recorded.” Others claim
to trace it to an Indian word “oke,” meaning “it
is” J.C.: The Public Trustee, 107 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, acts as executor and' trustee and manages
estates of deceased persons. He also undertakes the
supervision of the maintenance and education of
infant children. .. .E.G.8.: Send us full description
and we will see what we can d 0... .T.W.0.: The
pure preparation (in liquid form only), is obtainable
from Elliott’s and Australian Drug, Ltd., Sydney, at
12s. 6d. per pound. A preparation known as para-
dichlorbenzine is sold in commercial quality at Is.
6d. per pound. This is in crystal form and is used
for white ants, borers, etc C.D.: Ask the Fruit
Inspector, Department of Agriculture, Stanthorpe, to
visit your property and make recommendations for
overcoming the trouble... .R.N.: (1) Yes. No
restrictions with regard to income. (2) Nil, but
he must obtain a certificate from the Taxation
Commissioner before a passport will be issued....
C.R.: See “The Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book”. .. .R.S.R.: (1) Patev’s “Prac-
tical Handbook of Elocution,” 6s. 6d. (2) Carrie
Haase, 66 Albert-road, and Eileen O’Keefe, 473
Bourke-street—both Melbourne. (3) Yes, as good a
method as any is reading aloud... .C.C.: “Skippy,”
by Percy Crosby (Bs.) ... . J.R.C.: (1) 11 acres Or.
28p. (2) From half the sum of the three sides sub-
tract each side separately; multiply the half sum
and the three remainders together and take the
square root of their product. (3) Mullens’s
“Guide to Old Dances,’’ 6d M.F.: Get
in touch with the British Trade Commissioner,
“Herald” Building, Pitt-street, Sydney... .H.T.:
Application should be made to Capt. Williams,
Deputy Director of Navigation, Customs House,
Circular Quay.... F.W. C.R.: “History of Aber-
deen Angus Cattle,” by Macdonald and Sinclair.
. ...T.J.T.: Agents for Bottrel branding frame are
Moreheads, Ltd., Brisbane; cost of frame, £lO f.0.r.,
Brisbane. Agents for Shannon lamb-marking cradle
are the Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Brisbane, cost, 30s. f.0.r., Brisbane. .. .5.J.8.: The
Customs Department states that literature (not being
advertising) is subject to 10 p-c. primage duty and
6 p.c. sales tax, sales tax being calculated on the
value for duty of the goods, plus primage duty, plus
20 p.c. The department adds that on books of a
value of £1 the amount of primage duty and sales
tax would be approximately ss. Others make it 3s.
7d E.N.W.: Write to the Keeper of the
Stud-book, care A.J.C., Bligh-street, Sydney....
H.J.11.: Write to the War Office, London... .R.M.G.:
Brisbane Repertory Theatre play competition was
won by Mrs. Dorothy Tobin with “Margaret Ann
of Cherry Acres”... .H.L.S.: Suggest that you write
to the Commonwealth Statistician at Canberra ; also,
to State Statisticians... .W.J.M.K.: They could
summon you for unpaid rates and eventually have
recourse against the land itself if a purchaser could
be found. Should they obtain judgment and you did
not satisfy it, a writ of execution against your goods
might f0110w... .Mat: Smoking can cause eye-trouble
and harm the system in other ways, but generally
any harmful results cease when the intake of tobacco
ceases. Can’t diagnose your eye trouble without
examination.... R.L.N.: This question depends on the
hospital. There are various kinds of hospitals, some
of them being entirely public, where specialists attend
and no fees are charged. Others may have private
beds. The patient should come to a clear under-
standing before he enters. .. .W.H.8.: Yes... .N.S.:
Don’t think you’ll get it any cheaper that way.
Better to buy it in bulk, already made up....
P.H.T.: N.S.W. Dept, of Lands will furnish par-
ticulars. .. .F. A.S.: There is no record of a forecast
for 1933 by the late Clement Wragge. His predic-
tions based on the sunspot cycle theory covered
the period 1901-32 only. For 1931-32 he anticipated
dry seasons... .T. 8.: Particulars too vague for us to
determine value... .E.G.A.: Can’t express an opinion.
The officer who deals with taxation of legal costs is
the Prothonotary, Supreme Court House, King-street,
Sydney. If you inform the solicitor that you pro-
pose to have his costs taxed he may be prepared to
meet you W.A.T.: The duty of trustees is to do
everything necessary for the management and preser-
vation of the property. They can charge for use of
the hall. If through their neglect to maintain the
building in safe and habitable condition an accident
was directly traceable to such neglect, the sufferer
being legitimately on the premises, they would be
liable. It is advisable to have the building insured
against fire... .G.S.W.: They can generally be sold
at their published price. Try local booksellers....
S.R.: Write British Trade Commissioner, 499 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne... .M.1.P.: (1) They are
helpful in so far as they impart an elementary
knowledge of the subjects. Anyone with talent can
progress without their aid. (2) Varies with different
institutions. (3) No. (4) All those that advertise
freely can be trusted. .. . J.F.C.C.: If the gas were
completely insulated, its heat energy would be
unable to dissipate itself and hence its temperature
would not vary.... P.L. J.: A complete sheet of
Canberra lid. official (80 stamps) is worth about
£8... . J.H.: “Sorrel and Son” has not been pro-
duced as a talking picture D.R.; Cannot diagnose
condition from your statement. Consult a vet
N.S.M.C.: Forward a specimen of the shrub, in-
cluding the flower, to the Inspector of Stock in
your district, who will arrange for its identification.
A.R.B.: Assuming the agreement to be valid—
it could be stamped on payment of fine for delay—
the owner has power to terminate it before the end
of the period, but you have not. Better endeavor to
effect a friendly settlement C.A.R.: A new bill
is not necessary, the existing one being covered by
the moratorium. Interest may be sued for, but
principal cannot be called up till expiry of Act. ...
J.C.: It can be arranged through her father’s lodge.
J.H.: Any bookseller should be able to supply
you with an inexpensive book of speeches suitable
for such occasions E.G.8.: A method is described
in detail in the “Woman’s Mirror” of 24/3/’3l, 4d.,
Bulletin Office... .R.P.H.: Soak first in cold water
for an hour and rub well to get rid of the milk
and sugar part of the stain. Then stretch over a
basin and pour boiling water over the stain to
remove the tea. Wash in hot water containing a
generous dash of ammonia, then boil in the usual
•way M.H.: The Bulletin is not conducting a
novel competition this year... .8.L.D.: You should
furnish returns for each year during which you have
been carrying on the business. In ceitain circum-
stances business losses may be carried forward and
allowed as deductions from the income of the
next succeeding year.... J-M.: Not necessary to em-
ploy a solicitor. Call at Registrar of Probates
Office, Supreme Court, Sydney; state facts and
obtain forms. .. .I.M.S>: Mullens s Guide to Old
Dances” (Os.) (Many others mailed.)


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
BOOK IV—THE SYLVANIA.
Chapter VII (Continued).
JOHNS had to be alone with his thoughts.
So much had happened in the last
two days that it was only in retro-
spect that he could orientate the events.
It hardly seemed credible, for instance,
that it was not two hours before that he
had stood by Flora’s bedside in the snowy-
white ward that he had engaged for her
in the private hospital. He had purposely
left that farewell until the last. He wanted
to carry away memories of her fresh in
his mind, memories unblurred by any sub-
sequent hurry and bustle of departure.
And for that reason he had spent the
morning and the early part of the after-
noon in finalising his affairs. Signing more
papers. Mooning for an unhappy half-hour
in the street where Wooden Charlie’s had
once stood—luckily the place had been
fully insured, and the estate had not suf-
fered by the fire. But there was no Wooden
Charlie’s there now. In its place, Phcenix-
like, there had risen a garish, modern
dance-hall, and the utter silence of the place
by day only emphasised in his mind the
melancholy fact of his friend’s death.
He was going home—while Wooden
Charlie was lying alone on the windswept
hillside, beneath the pathetically-pleading
tombstone!
He had thought, too, of taking a car to
Fairy Point, but finally had decided against
it. It could never look by daylight as it
had that one glorious night. Better, he
decided, to keep the memory unspoiled. It
was Jhe centre of his memory, that night;
the instant that marked the greatest epoch
of his life; the day from which all things
were dated—as having happened before, or
after, the Night of Stars.
And then had come the visit to the Surf
Queen. It had flattered him immensely;
it had made him almost pathetically grate-
ful, the warm welcome that he had received.
There had been no mention of the manner
of his leaving the boat at Lola-Pango. No
doubt Michael Varley had explained that
to their satisfaction!
Captain Smith was as bluff and hearty
as ever. He had boomed his pleasure at
seeing Johns again; he had slapped his,
thigh, and he had “ditched” himself if
“Johnny wasn’t looking fit as a fiddle.”
And then it had dawned on Johns that
all was not, perhaps, as well as it might
have been with those on board the Surf
Queen. Captain Smith was a little too hale
and hearty, his merriment a trifle forced.
Just what the trouble was Johns had not
been able to divine.
Etty and Michael Varley were married,
but that was not the reason, although they
were both a little subdued. It was no
internal disruption that had upset the Surf
Queen’s complement.
It was an involuntary remark by the
blond giant that had given Johns the
inkling. He had been telling them of the
months that had passed since he had last
seen them. Of the Arethusa, of Wooden
Charlie and of the Spindrift. It was when
he came to tell them how, finally, the Spin-
drift had been derelicted by the storm, and
how Stephen Gibbons had stepped aboard
the Sylvania a. ruined man, that Bluff Smith
had said, unguardedly: “Him, too!”
That had been sufficient. It had put
Johns on the trail, and, secretly exultant
that it was before he had heard their story
that he had made the Deed of Gift to
Etty, he had dragged from them the story.
The pearling concession into which the
blond giant had put practically all his sav-
ings had been non-existent when they got
there. But it was not a case of fraud. The
pearling ground had been there when Smith
had made the purchase. It was, as the
bluff giant said, an “act of God.” There
had been a storm about a fortnight after
Johns had left them. Johns nodded. He
remembered it vividly. It had swept Zan-
davar with bitter violence two days after
the Arethusa had sailed, and he had won-
dered to himself at the time whether the
storm had brought with it, or itself been
engendered of, one of the periodical phases
of volcanic activity that every now and
then change the contour of the ocean bed.
“Where once an atoll and a pearling
ground had been the Surf Queen found no-
thing but ocean a hundred fathoms deep!
Just Lola-Panga over again,” Smith had
finished with a philosophic shrug. “It ain’t
my destiny to make money—or to hang
on to it, anyway.”
And Etty had rallied him with a cheer-
ful: “Come off it, Pop! Something’ll turn
up all right, don’t you worry!”
It was then that Johns had broken his
news. Gently and gradually, so that the
significance of what he was saying dawned
on them slowly, seeped into their intelli-
gence by degrees, until they realised that
what he was saying meant that he was
rich. He, whom they had rescued from the
gutter in Sydney; he, whom they had all
helped, each in his or her own way, he,
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., about,
to go home to claim his heritage, the posi-
tion that was his by virtue of his birth
and breeding and education
It was Michael Varley who first took his
hand. “I’m mighty glad to hear it, Johnny
—Mr. Johns,” he had said, and his eyes as
well as his lips had smiled.
But all three of them had been glad,
Johns realised. Genuinely glad.
And then he had withheld from them no
longer the rest of his news. At first they
had not believed it, and then, believing,
they had wanted to refuse the money, until
Johns, triumphantly, had told them that
that they could not do.
Later he had walked up a.nd down the
deck with Varley. He wanted to ask how
Etty had taken his sudden departure, his
stealing away like a thief in the night; but
it had been Varley who had broached the
subject.
“Etty’s quite happy,” he had told him.
“At first she was cut up pretty badly,
Johnny—if I can still call you that?”
“Of course, always!” He had been eager
to hear the rest of the “doctor’s” words.
“But after a while she began to come
round, to see reason. You were a cut
above her. Right out of her class. She
wouldn’t have known which fork to use—
when to bow and when to shake hands.
And all the rest of it. And now she’s con-
tented, and I think she’s getting to be
reallv fond of me. But she’ll always think
the world of you, Johnny—worship you
from a distance, so to speak; and in the
right perspective.”
It had been embarrassing, and Johns at
length had been glad to get away—to get
back into his waiting launch, and chug
across the water to the wharf, and to Flora
and Gibbons.
That part of it had not been easy. They
had been together so long on the Spin-
drift. They had grown to be more fond
of one another, all three, than they had
realised until the time for the final part-
ing came. Flora, in her pale-blue dressing-
jacket, and with her golden aureole of hair
spread out around her head like a halo
against the snowy pillows, had looked so
fragile, so ethereal, that it had been hard
to credit that it was she, and not some
astral body returned to earth for a passing
moment.
But, even so, Johns had realised that she
was looking better. Even the One day
ashore, the one day of treatment, had made
a difference in her. Since the night before,
he learned, they had done something to her,
injected some gas into her bad lung, or
round about her bad lung, and that had
made her feel easier. She knew herself
now that she was going to get better.
And it was all thanks to him, they had
told him half a dozen times. It was as if
they could not satisfy themselves that they
had impressed on him sufficiently the real-
isation of their gratitude. s
“Rubbish!” he told them time and time
again. “The boot’s on the other foot. If
it hadn’t been for you”—he had been look-
ing at Flora as he spoke—“if it hadn’t been
for you, God only knows where I’d have
been by now. If you had been other than
you were —the traditional type, I mean—
you would have turned me adrift.”
Suddenly, impul-
sively, he had stooped
over the bed and had
kissed her on the
forehead.
Then, with a strange
little gesture, that was
adequate, however, to
express the tumult
of emotions that he
felt, he had left them
—with the picture of
Flora still fresh in his
mind. A memory to
take away with him
—of Flora, her eyes
shining so that her
whole soul was in them.
Chapter VIII.
It was without fuss, without ostentation,
tli at the Sylvania at length began to move
out on the next stage of her journey. A
gentle throbbing, as the engines prepared
to take up their burden, was the first inti-
mation that the time had actually come.
Slowly the water began to slip past
Johns’s eyes—so slowly that when he looked
towards the shore he could not realise
that they were moving. The alignment
changed but imperceptibly.
And then, as quietly, the engines ceased
again, and the Sylvania, sliding gently
backwards, began to swing her bows to-
wards the waiting ocean. And as they
swung the movement brought into sight
the clump of small craft, of which the Surf
Queen, Johns knew, was the one nearest to
the liner in the second row of vessels.
As though taking it for granted, Johns
ran his eye along the dark outline of her
deck, looking for the tiny red point that
would mark the position of Michael Var-
ley, as he leaned against the rail watching
the Sylvania move off. That he might not
be there did not occur to Johns for an
instant. It was inevitable—it was Lola-
Panga over again. The quiet mystery of
the night, the black water in between—
they were all the same. The lights of the
harbor and of the city behind did not
count; they were less than ciphers in the
chain of memory.
The red point of light was there; and,
as Johns watched, it waxed and waned,
and then, as the Sylvania. swung further
round so that the Surf Queen was almost
out of sight, that which he had subcon-
sciously been waiting for occurred. The
glowing point waved slowly a semi-circle
in the black velvet of the night. It was
Michael Varley’s “farewell” and “God
speed.”
As though in answering adieu the siren
of the Sylvania boomed imperiously, and
the liner, suddenly awakened to throbbing,
palpitating life in every bolt and rivet,
breasted forward into the night and the
arms of the waiting ocean.
Zandavar City of Fa rewells!
But ahead of them was the Southern
Cross, Pointers almost awash in the sleep-
ing ocean. The scene, the setting so simi-
lar—Johns found it hard to realise that it
was not all a dream; a phantasmagorical
reincarnation of that other night—at Lola-
Panga!
It was the second officer who broke into
his reverie.
He had come up silently, and his words
were the first intimation that Johns had
of his presence. It was some trivial re-
mark about the weather, but it served to
bring him back to the present with a start.
He must have been dreaming there for
an hour or more. The harbor lights were
barely to be distinguished, low down on
the horizon and almost dead astern.
“Bit different to the night you came
aboard, Mr. Johns.”
The Second laughed a little self-con-
sciously. He was uncertain what had moved
him to break into the other’s solitude. He
knew a little of Johns’s story, and he real-
ised that he was bound to be a little bit
“'queer.” A man who had been rescued off
a derelict hulk, a.ncl had landed in at port
to find himself the richer by forty-odd
thousand, was bound to have thoughts not
common to the majority of passengers. But
the Second was interested in “strange”
people—he liked to talk to them, and “get
their point of view.” It passed the time
in between ports, too.
“Yes.”
Johns answered him politely, but not
enthusiastically. He was not in the mood
for talking. He would have preferred to
be left alone —for that evening, anyway.
But he could hardly send the other away.
It was better to slirug one’s shoulders and
listen as resignedly as possible.
“Yes.” The Second was launched on a
theme that interested him intensely. It
had been a queer coincidence, that red-
headed girl coming aboard like that. And
he failed to see how the story could not
interest the passenger.
“Yes, it was a funny thing, that wreck.
Two derelicts in eight months. That’s not
a bad record, eh?”
“I suppose it’s a fairly common occur-
rence —that sort of rescue, isn’t it?” Johns
asked.
“Well, yes.” The Second was suddenly
thoughtful: he wanted to be impartial in
his judgment of the ocean that was wife
and family to him. “Well, yes. You might
call it that. It’s not terribly uncommon,
anyway. The Pacific’s not too kind at
times, Mr. Johns. All right for a big ship
like us that runs a definite course through
well-charted waters. It’s all plain sailing
as far as that goes. No fear of us running
into any reefs or anything. And I’d like
to see the typhoon or monsoon or hurri-
cane or any other little Hell that you can
get at sea that the Sylvania couldn’t
weather.” He slapped her rail affection-
ately. “But it’s a different matter for the
small fry. They poke about the islands,
you know—of course, you know! I was
forgetting that you’d been on one of them!
—they poke about the islands uncharted
waters. And there’s always something
lying for them—if it isn’t a hurricane it’s
a half-awash coral reef that’s quite hidden
at high tide—by about three inches of
water! And if it isn’t that it’s a tidal
wave. Yes, it’s a bit of a dog’s life for
the small fry.”
Johns nodded. He was only half-listen-
ing to the other’s talk. One-half of his
mind was thousands of miles away. But
the nod was all the encouragement that
the Second needed; there was that coinci-
dence to tell about. Probably it had never
happened to anybody else.
“It’s a funny thing,” he went on, “the
way I’ve been praising up the Sylvania.
Only been on her for this trip and the one
before. But you get to know a good boat
almost as soon as you step aboard. She’s
weather-tight, the Sylvania! You should
have seen the way she came through that
last little blow—the one that put you down.
Hardly strained a rivet. Different to the
old Mana-lema. I was on her ten years—
and then managed to fluke this job. A bit
of a difference, I cam tell you! Oh, well,
they say luck’s a fortune. Like a Rolls-
Royce after a Ford, this is. The poor old
Mana-lema isn’t in the same street with
this. Lord! but she could kick and prance
a bit! Remember that last bad storm round
these parts? About eight months ago?”
A chord of memory stirred in Johns.
“Yes,” he sighed. It brought back mem-
ories of Wooden Charlie—and others. “Yes,
I remember. I was in Zandavar at the
time. But we got it there.”
The Second nodded. “Sure thing you
would. The old Mana-lema was only
about a hundred miles out of Zandavar at
the time, and we got it. Yes, you would
sure have got it there. But not like we
got it! Lord, that was a pretty tough time
all right! And it knocked all the go out
of the poor old Mana. That’s how I got
on to this boat. . I was Chief on the Mana-
lema. But when we finally limped into
port she had to go into dry dock, and the
Sylvania was short of a second —he was-
down with ‘blackwater,’ and they couldn t
wait for him. Ships don’t. They’re like
the sea—impersonal So I got the job.
Lucky? I should say so! It’s funny, you
know, the way something you’ve got no
control over happens along—you’re in
it.... and bang! the whole course of your
life’s altered! Queer, isn’t it?”
“Yes.” Johns was miles away again.
“Yes, life’s certainly queer.”
“Queer?” The Second laughed to express
the inadequacy of his own word. “It’s more
than that. A man tranships from one boat
to another, and finds the same thing hap-
pening to him over again! You could have
knocked me down with a feather when I
saw them bringing that red-headed jane
aboard. Yes, you mightn’t believe it, but
it’s true. It was when we were limping
along, trying to make port, in the Mana-
lema after that storm that, we struck the
first derelict. Only they hadn’t been so
lucky. I got the whole story from the
stewardess. They’d struck a reef when
they were running before the storm. The)
might have made it, too, weathered it out
if it hadn’t been for that. She was a good
boat—-her Second told me about her. Hov
she’d been built absolutely up to the
knocker, damn-the-expense style. Every-
thing just so. A nice beam, and Diesel oil-
engines. Stand up to anything except
coral reefs! They chew the bottom ou
of anything. A warship wouldn’t stant
much chance against a reef—not with a
her armor —if she was running beloie a
gale like they were. No, not even a war-
ship. And, as for them, they hit it hard,
and stuck there for ten minutes. Meiij
Hell they had, too! The skipper and tin-
owner were washed overboard—seas com-
ing right over them. And then she oitec
clear, and drifted. Just as well she had
good bulkheads! She’d hit with just !
after-part of her keep, coming down in me
trough, and her other bulkheads kept hei
afloat.
“But it was the girl I was thinking about.
It wouldn’t happen again in a lifetime. Ana
AUSTRALIA’S BEST SPORTING STORY
This is Monty Groyer’s “One-Punch Patsy.” “The Bulletin” hasn’t
any hesitation in saying that no other Australian sporting story has
so many surpassing qualities. Not only is Patsy himself a most
engaging character, but his trainer is one of the most humorous
“hard cases” ever put between two covers, there are many very
exciting moments in the story, the interest never droops, and, besides
Grover’s quaint reflections, there is some admirable descriptive
stuff in it. People who have never sampled a sporting story before
are warmly recommended to begin with this one.


V
V*
V*' .
&
-
mmm*>
mlm
mm i
s mmmi
-
m
m
ill
Easier, quicker, quieter.... the new British-
built Imperial gives the maximum output
with minimum effort. Good, clean accurate
work is only one feature of this magnificent
machine. It is sold at a fixed price,
£39/10/- for the office model, £l9/19/- for
the portable. Guaranteed against faulty
materials and workmanship for three years,
and serviced free for the first twelve months.
Full information for the asking. Write for it.
8
GOOD
REASONS
• Interchangeable
type and key-
board.
• Six extra char-
acters.
• Interchangeable
Carriage.
• Clear-cut Type.
• interchangeable
Platen.
• Escapement
Motion.
• Special “Pin-Point”
unit.
• Special Locking
Device.
PRICE,
£39/1 0/-
The British
O
a
O
liLj typewriters.
The following Type-
writers have been re-
placed by new Imperial
machines, and are
offered for sale, recon-
ditioned and guaranteed,
at attractive prices.
Late Model Remington, Under-
wood, Roval, L. C. Smith,
£l5 rebuilt; £l2 10s. over-
hauled. Earlier Models, £10;
other makes, £B. If the
nature of your work does not
warrant the expenditure on a
new Imperial, these machines
will be found to be thoroughly
serviceable. They are sold on
a definite money-back guaran-
tee if they are not satisfactory
in every way.
Imperial Typewriter
Sales Company,
58 Young St., Sydney.
Geo. Raitt Pty., Ltd.,
40 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Burridge & Warren,
Ltd.,
69 King Street, Perth.
Office Supplies Co.,
105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
L. Dobell & Co., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street,
Brisbane.
Office Equippers, Ltd.,
Gawler Place,
Adelaide. 4
The
Agents,
Imperial Type-
writers.—l would
appreciate further
information regarding
the new model Imperial
British Typewriter. Thank you !
NAME
ADDRESS
Fill in, and post to your nearest Agent.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m "
y%D.
b
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
ŵ
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in T asmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da* of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information , copies , advertising rates of J, h \F™™™ r /’‘7 eeHv CouHeT ” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from ♦
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
all within eight months! Two red-headed
girls! But the first one wasn’t as lucky
as yours was. No, not by a long chalk.
She didn’t marry the skipper, because the
skipper was in the ocean, and so was the
owner, the girl’s father. Terribly cut up,
she was. The stewardess was looking after
her, and she told me all about it. How
she didn’t want to eat, didn’t want to live,
didn’t want to go home. And how she
cursed the tropics. Loathed them. She
kept saying that they’d taken from her the
only two men she’d ever loved, or ever
would. I reckon one of them was her
father —of course. And the other—looks
as though it, might have been the skipper,
doesn’t it? Funny thing, now, wouldn’t it
have been, if the skipper had been saved
and she’d married him, just like yours
did?”
The Second broke off to sigh. It was a
pity that the coincidence had not been
completed so satisfyingly as all that. But
that would have been too much “queer-
ness” to expect from life.
“They’d only been out of Zandavar a
few days, too. You might have seen the
yacht in the harbor there. What was the
owner’s name? Darned if I can think of
it. Right on the tip of my tongue, too.
But I remember they came from London
—Mayfair, I think. I’m awful at names.
Never can remember them! And they had
a funny name for their house, too, I re-
member. What the devil was it? Right
on the tip of my tongue”
The Second broke off disappointedly. It
always exasperated him, that bad habit, of
forgetting names. And his ears were not
sharp enough to catch the answer that
would have solved his problem, as Ernest
William Johns, M.A. Oxon., his eyes fixed
on the Pointers of the Southern Cross,
whispered softly, like a litany:
“Philippi! Philippi
[The End.]
Harriers.
WALTER E. WYNNE WRITHE AS GOOD A STORY OF A CROSS-
COUNTRY RACE AS AUSTRALIA EVER PRINTED.
BIG CHOOK nursed his shotgun and
concentrated his senses on the hen-
coop. There was neither sound nor
movement from Chock or his hens. The
still midnight was made for sleeping, and
marauding. Indifferent to chicken-thieves,
the foolish hens slept soundly. Chook
clenched his teeth and gripped his shot-
gun doubly hard to refrain from dozing.
To-night or never, he- grimly determined.
This vigil was no unpremeditated one.
He reclined in a deck-chair, his big frame
defended from wooden angles by sundry
cushions. A rug lay to hand in case the
night air grew chilly. Physically he was
quite comfortable. Mentally, he was in
turmoil.
From fifty, his beloved hens had fallen to
a miserable thirty in ten nights- The
decrease of a pair per twenty-four hours
was due, not to natural causes, but
to conditions over which man had control.
It was this man that Chook lay in wait
for, shotgun inf hands. For a week he had
taken up the same position from dark until
dawn. Each dawn had found Chook sound
asleep in his deck-chair, and a couple of
absentees registered in the hencoop.
On this calm summer night. there was
not much chance of his sleeping at his
post. He was filled with a thwarted rage
that bubbled to his lips in an inaudible
soliloquy.
“Curse him ! It’s the last straw. To-night
or never! I’ll maim the thieving swine.
Duckshot should impress on him the sacred
rights o’ property. If I could just get one
glimpse of him—just hear one little
squawk from me chickens! But lie’s a dab
at his game. Oh, but he’ll have to be good
to-night to get away with it! Just a
flutter from those chickens, and’’ That
was at 1 a.m.
He patted his gun and simmered down
for a while. At 2 a.m. his indignation
fumed up anew.
“The times are hard, Lord only knows,
and there are those that are hungry. That s
what hurts. If he’d only come to me like
a man and ask for the blamed chickens,
he could have his pick. Have I ever refused
a feed to fellow-man that’s a bit under-
neath? But no; he comes like a thief in
the night. All right. He’ll be treated like
a common thief. Duckshot to stop him,
and these hands to do the rest!”
No exaggeration of momentary passion
here. His labored breathing, in sympathy
with the intensity of his reflections, was
a danger-signal in itself. With such veno-
mous self-communion the hours passed
He had not even the solace of a smoke.
He abstained in the belief that it bene-
fited his wind. And Chook’s wind was a
secondary consideration only to that of his
chickens.
At 3 a.m. he had reached the mood m
which man searches for any excuse to
grumble. “It’s pretty thick!” he snarled
to himself, glowering at the hencoop. “A
man of my years having to stop up all
night like this Was ever a man cursed
with such an ungrateful brat of a son as
Chick? Rather than take my place for
a night here —-even rather than run the
fifteen miles—he goes gallivanting around
in the car to country dances! A splendid
son, him! A wonderful generation, his!
Ungrateful sons! Chicken thieves! Lord,
I do get all the stiff luck in this rotten
world!”
Which philosophy accorded him some
degree of comfort.
At 4 a.m. he awakened, just as the
morning sky was growing light. In one
tremendous wave the knowledge poured in
on him that again he had failed; again his
chickens had been raided; again the raider
had escaped. Of the three reproaches, the
goad that again he had slept stung his
passion to the bitterest fury. He writhed
. in his chair and clutched the shotgun
murderously, as though tempted to turn
it on himself.
Then, though the blood pounded in his
ears, he heard the slight rustle in the hen-
'*;coop.
He fired from where he sat. The explosion
ii started the echoes for miles. Near at hand,
only a muttered “Strewth!” from the hen-
coop. The chickens slept on.
“Gotcha!” ground out Chook vindictively.
“Gotcha!” He was bounding for the hen-
coop, grinding the words between his teeth.
' A slight form quickly detached itself from
the darker shadow that was the hencoop
and flitted down the yard. But the dawn
light was deceptive. Suddenly the fugitive
ran against a slack clothes-line and was
; precipitated on his back. Another
“Strewth !” and another malignant “Gotcha!”
as Chook pounced upon him and groped
for the throat. “A small man —a weed!”
• exulted Chook. He’d murder the scoundrel.
A small, badly-shod foot was thrust
[ against Chook’s chest and the leg straight-
ened scientifically. The big man rose in an
arc and collapsed sprawling on his back
ten feet away. A good-natured chuckle,
and the small man was in full flight, over
the back fence, and across a field beyond.
Chook picked himself up. The fall had
benefited him. It had knocked his blind
rage into a cold fury. He shook himself
and eyed the rapidly retreating chicken-
thief. “All right!” he muttered. “Run
your darnedest. You can’t keep up that
sprint for a mile, and while I can see you
I’ve as good as got you. Go on! Tire
yourself out quick, and save me the longer
run!” And he was over his back fence
and in pursuit.
The fugitive ran easily. He vaulted a
second fence without looking back. The
pursuer, getting into his stride, chuckled
with a sound that was mainly snarl.
Soon there was sufficient light to see
clearly. Chook’s thickened ears became
visible as the outstanding features of his
bullet head. Painfully the growing bright-
ness disclosed his nose to be of battered
aspect. For Chook had spent successful
years in the ring, and as he ran he
unlimbered certain muscles, and squinted
his scarred face in anticipation as he
followed his quarry. j
The strengthening light illuminated the
face of the fugitive too. It was in strange
contrast to Chook’s. A finer cast, unscarred
physically, yet carrying in its _ gaunt
expression the shadow of recent privation.
The eyes were cleaa - , and the spirit of his
chuckle lingered in them. That chuckle was
a remarkable thing in a man who knew what
to expect in the Valley when caught red-
handed at pilfering. There were few on the
road amongst either newcomers or old-
timers who did not know of the last man-
handling, and feared for the next. So
that only the truly desperate descended
into the fertile but uncharitable vale.
At the end of a mile, covered in creditable
time, he glanced over his shoulder. The
light of the chuckle died out, for the pace
would have left an average runner standing,
yet the big man was close behind.
The fugitive closed his mouth firmly, as
though he realised the cause for chuckling
had gone. He got his chin well up, not |
in any defiance, but to pamper his lungs,
and braced his shoulders back with his bent
arms working rhythmically at his sides, in
accord with the regular placing of his feet.
He vaulted another fence, and kept his
speed relentlessly. At the end of the second
mile he glanced over his shoulder again. |
His pursuer had drawn a lot closer.
The small man expended valuable breath J
in an unnecessary “Strewth!” But in a
tone different from those by the hencoop.
Having escaped the chicken-owner’s hands
back there, he had not troubled much about
the finality of his escape. How many men
could run a mile through the Valley in six
minutes? Perhaps one in a thousand. At
the end of the second mile he knew that
he had picked the thousandth man.
His mind darted to every point of vantage
from his viewpoint as the hunted. There
was no cover in miles. Tho Valley was all
wheat land, stripped of the harvest and naked
but for a* few scattered trees. There were
farm-houses here and there. The first he
passed in the waxing day made the morning-
clamorous with the uproar of barking dogs.
That, with the big man pounding along be-
hind him, was symbolical of the Valley and
its dreadful hostility.
He wriggled clear of his coat without
breaking his stride, and tossed the. garment
aside. Underneath he had only his singlet
to cumber him. A hundred yards behind,
Chook saw the manoeuvre, and shed his
coat too, displaying a startling shirt,
already damp.
The rising sun threw the shadows of
the runners before them and dispelled the
last shreds of illusions that they had both
fondly harbored. They had covered three
miles with but slight change of pace. It
was borne in on Chook that he was not
going to recapture the stealer _ of his
chickens without a literal run for his money.
The small man ahead of him was evidently
a stayer. And Chook, with a local repu-
tation for cross-country marathons, was a
good judge of form. It would not be an
easy capture, but it would be the more
painful for the captive the longer it was
delayed.
The fugitive’s conclusions had little .of
confidence in them. There was no opening
for guile to aid him. His salvation would
have to rest on endurance and speed,. and
he was not quite in his old condition —
meals hadn’t been too regular lately.
At six miles the pace had dropped to a
difficult trot. He was feeling the first
symptoms of distress. The regularity had
gone from bis stride, and breathing had
(Continued on page 31/.)


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ll
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<t
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
MARGARET RAWLINGS in
DR. PYGMALION.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
pAMOUS BROKEN HILL has produced
£157,000,000 worth of metal (nearly as
much value as from all the coal mines in N. S.
Wales) and almost the whole lot was mined
within the Municipal Boundaries!
Naturally this marvellous place has a news-
paper equally celebrated.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
has been issued two or three times every day
for the past 44 years. What a record for a
mining field!
The people of Broken Hill and the Far West
neither read nor need metropolitan daily news-
papers. That is obvious.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. ... .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WOODS'
/CURE
For Coughs, Colds,
and Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Spring racing began at Warwick Farm on
Saturday, most inauspiciously for backers.
The first train home was packed before the
last race, always a melancholy sign that
things have gone badly for the brotherhood.
The forward running of four-year-olds streng-
thened the impression that they are going to
be dangerous in all the big handicaps, and in
the Aveight-for-age races as well. Chatham
and Johnnie Jason showed themselves much
improved horses, and the oivner of Ammon
Ra was indeed lucky that both went off
before the last A..T.C. spring meeting.
McShortodds magnanimously offered to
take 5 to 4 Kuvera for the Hobartville
Stakes. He had to make it 5 to 4 against
before he could do any business, and no great
amount of money went on at that price, for
Kuvera looked a bit burly. N.E.F. was firm
at threes; Milantheon and Bronze Hawk
(both sevens) were the only others backed.
N.E.F. tried to win all the Avay, but was
done with at six furlongs, which is obviously
his distance. Then Kuvera and Bronze
Hawk, both sons of Brazen, settled down to
fight out an interesting finish. It ended in
favor of Bronze Hawk —capably ridden by
Cook —the favorite being beaten by a head.
Little Roman Spear (20 to 1) made a dash
at them, but the run which promised to
carry her to success ended suddenly, though
she was a good third. Bronze Hawk, being
a gelding, cannot start in the Derby; Kuvera
can be improved, but if he is the best N. S.
Wales lias got the Derby prize will probably
go to Victoria or Maoriland. Milantheon cut
up badly ; but another Pantheon colt, Peter
Pan. a chestnut out of Alwina, impressed by
Bert’"l think I CA.N doit"
Gert " What ? "
E>ert , "Brenk. the high jump record".
QERtTvJHAT HEIGHT is the H6.RBOUR-
his performance in the Novice Handicap, in
which he dead-heated with Babili, one of
Kelso’s string. So the English sire may be
strongly represented in the Derby after all.
The Warwick Stakes, w.f.a., brought out
the unusual field of 13, and all good horses,
too. Greensea tried to steal it, but he
could not get away from Johnnie Jason
(sevens and sixes), who cut him down in
the straight and made for home on the
rails. Veilmond (2 to 1) and then Inflation
(4 to 1) tackled him, but he is full of
pluck, is Johnnie, and though tiring as a
result of his stern chase after Greensea, who
had run “six” in a tick over 1.12
(the mile took 1.38), he lasted long
enough to defeat the favorite by a
head, Inflation being another half-length
off and Dermid a close fourth. Dermid’s per-
formance was ver-y creditable to him, but
if the Caulfield Cup is his mission it is
asking a great deal of the frail-looking cus-
tomer to be tackling the best we have at
w.f.a. in August. Johnnie Jason has 9st. 41b.
in the Epsom, 9st. 61b. in the Metrop., 9st.
in the Caulfield Cup and 9st. lib in the
Melbourne Cup. He has been backed for
the Epsom, but he would seem to have a
better chance in the Caulfield Cup, with
only 101 b. more than the weight with which
he won the Sydney Cup.
McShortodds could have made a lot more
money if he had cared to take a chance with
Burracootboo in the Campbelltown Handicap.
Many people would not accept the miser-
able price offered —7 to 4—and kept their
notes in their pockets. Burracootboo likes
to get to the front, and does not relish
having to trail another horse. Holdfast (7
to 1) beat him for pace to the home turn,
and the big fellow did not seem to put much
heart into his work after that. Just when
Holdfast’s supporters were feeling for their
tickets, Pike brought Chatham (5 to 1) along
with a nicely-judged ran, and the stylish son
of Windbag—Myosotis accounted for Hold-
fast by a head. He carried 31b. more than
his Epsom weight, Bst. 131 b., and cut out the
“six” in lmin. 12sec., equalling the record
for the course. Autopay ran a capital
fourth; behind him were Sir Duuinald (an
early winner), Legislator and Questionnaire.
Though favorably handicapped for the
Glenlee Handicap, a mile race, New King
was withdrawn and started in the Spring
Handicap over the unfamiliar distance of
11 furlongs. It looked bad tactics, but,
backed at eights, he did remarkably well in
the Spring Handicap. For a mile he fol-
lowed Circus Star; then he disposed of her
and came into the straight with a good
lead. Salvador (20 to 1), always well up,
came fast and got the better of him by
three-quarters of a length in the fast time
of 2min. ISsec. Version (8 to 1), who had
galloped poorly during the week, was only
half a length away ; then came the favorite
(Chide), Circus Star, Valparaiso and Pretzel.
Salvador is now in the Metrop. market
again. Apparently the farther they go the
better he likes it. With New King out of
it, Black Douglas (10 to 1) had a good win
from King’s Arms and Autumn Leaf in the
last race, enabling Pike to land a double.
Like Johnnie Jason, Black Douglas was suc-
cessful at the same meeting last year.
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Babili; next,
Bombastic.
Canterbury Stakes: Holdfast; next, Green-
sea.
Flying Handicap: Sir Duuinald; next,
Promptitude or Oratorian.
September Handicap: Gleaner; next,
Black Douglas.
Campsie Handicap: Eton Blue or Ora-
torian ; next, Crucis.
* a: * *
Since the Underwood Stakes at Williams-
town was established in 1924 the mile
weight-for-age event has been captured almost
without exception by horses of distinguished
galloping ability. Whittier and Highland
each won it twice; on other occasions suc-
cess was achieved by Heroic, Waterline and
Phar Lap. The triumph of Liberal on
Saturday caused as much delight to McShort-
edds as did that of Royal Charter five years
ago. A. G. Hunter’s Windbag colt was
quoted at 20 to 1, and he paid more than
26 to 1 on the tote, making the punters who
had accepted 7 to 4 about High Brae feel
terribly sorry for themselves.
Until his downfall in this race High Brae
was favorite for the Caulfield Cup. Naturally
the chestnut stallion has eased considerably
in the market, and he is not up to the stan-
dard of High Syce, with whom Jack Holt
scored at Caulfield in 1929 for the same
owner (Mrs. L. R. Buxton). Though he
raced rather sourly, High Brae had every
chance, but Liberal beat him, running away,
by three lengths. Liberal may prove to be
the best of the three-year-olds in Victoria,
if not Australian champion in his division.
Shin soreness operated against the son of
Windbag and Charade 12 months ago ; yet he
won a couple of juvenile events and more
than once revealed glimpses of greatness.
Both sire and dam were purchased from
Percy Miller, of N. S. Wales, and installed
by A. G. Hunter at his Seymour (Vic.) stud.
Charade is by Comedy King and runs back
to Chester’s dam. She is related to Glad-
some (a dual Futurity Stakes winner) and
has a strain of Trenton in her pedigree.
Third place in the Underwood Stakes was
secured by Parkwood, who made all the
running. Frank Musgrave’s faith in the
son of Backwood has not waned, quid this
handsome stallion is on the up-grade again.
Middle Watch, the Cup favorite, came home
exceptionally well, just behind the place-
getters. Middle Watch has filled out into
a splendid-looking thoroughbred.
The spring team of Jack Holt looks now
much less formidable than it looked a few
weeks ago. Eastern Glow went wrong, and
had. to be turned out for a spell. A filling was
noticed in one. of the legs of Great Idea,
and Holt, fearing the gelding might break
down, decided not to go on further with
liis preparation at this stage. He has a
high respect for the capabilities of the
Queensland thoroughbred,, who may be heard
of to good effect in the autumn. It is on
the cards that Holt will have to depend
mainly on Picatus and Gallantic in the
Caulfield Cup. Sydney turf followers had
a sample of Gallantic’s quality when she
annexed the Adrian Knox Stakes at Rand-
wick. It was by sheer bad luck that she
lost the Truganina Handicap at Williams-
town. She reached the front under extreme
difficulties and had nothing in reserve to
withstand the late challenge of Golden Lul-
laby. By the irony of fate, a mare leased
by Holt to a rival trainer was the means
of Gallantic’s undoing.
Holt’s horses were beaten all along the
line. Some Hero (7 to 4) missed a place
in the Three-year-old Handicap, won by
Balkan King (S to 1), a silver-maned chest-
nut by Gay Lothario. Heroic Prince ran
fourth in the August Handicap. Half-heads
divided Oof Bird (10 to 1), Shadow King
and Purveyor in this race. Shadow King
was the medium of a heavy stable plunge
and ought to have won. lie was third in
the Melbourne Cup of 1930, second last
year, and will be cherry-ripe when the big
handicap comes on for decision again.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Gloom roosted on Mclnstoush’s brow as
he contemplated the Sydney Stadium
“house” on Saturday night and watched the
lumbering efforts of A 1 Walker (13st. 101 b.)
and Frankie Wine (13st. 51b.) to justify
their importation. A long left to the chin
made the lethargic Walker fight in the
12th, and some swings so rattled Wine in
the 13th that he butted the coon on the
chin. A similar foul, for which the white
was cautioned, occurred in the 14th. He
nevertheless butted the black half-through
the ropes, and did it again immediately they
returned to mid-ring. Then he was dis-
qualified. Tony Gora took Payne’s place
against Adolph Hintz and they went ten
two-minute rounds. Gora dropped Hintz for
eight in the third round, but was outpointed
afterwards, and the new referee, Barling,
did not deserve the storm of hooting that
greeted his decision for Hintz.
“Belvoir”: If Lord Lonsdale knocked J.
L. Sullivan out in the U.S.A. 53 years ago,
as he claimed in an interview the other day,
it was one of those rare cases of a good big
man being licked by a not-so-good little
man. John L. never got below 13 stone,
and I doubt if his lordship is out of the
welter class to this day, when high living
has taken toll of his waistline. He proved
himself a good horseman in N.S.W. 20-odd
years ago, when he and his wife were guests
of the Dudleys at Government House, and
he is a finished four-in-hand whip, but this
latest revelation is the first the world has
heard of his virtuosity as a pug.
$ * * $
Lurich had a new opponent at Leich-
hardt on Saturday—Luis Pardello, a
Spaniard. Luis proved as rough as the
Russian and handled him so riotously in the
fourth that Lurich refused to re-enter the
ring; a penalty fall was given against him.
But in the fifth a back-slam knocked Par-
dello unconscious. lie could not come up
again.
Footbrawl
Geelong’s failure against Richmond on
Saturday absolutely settled its chances of
reaching the final four in the Vic. League
scrimmage, and these now consist of Carl-
ton, Richmond, South Melbourne and Col-
lingwood. The positions may be altered,
but it is not likely. For its failure Gee-
long has only itself to blame; it beat the
Tigers in marking, pace and ground play,
but while Richmond’s backs were watching
Molony—-he got 5 goals , from 6 shots—his
mates hadn’t sense enough to play for posi-
tion and secure goals, but kicked from all
sorts of hopeless angles. Consequently the
Ilubbites scored only 9 goals, 20 behinds
(74) to Richmond’s 13 goals, 8 behinds
(86). Collingwood kept tight hold on its
place by accurate kicking in the last quarter
—-11 goals, 5 behinds (71), while Foot-
scray gathered in 9 goals, 12 behinds (66).
South Melbourne boosted up its percentage,
to no obvious purpose, by piling up 157 to
Hawthorn’s 34; Carlton collected 105 to
Melbourne’s 63; North Melbourne beat St.
Kilda with 105 to 85; and Fitzroy downed
Essendon by S 9 to 52. The big game
attracted 25,000 barrackers; the others
about 50,000 among them,
* * * *
The last round of the Sydney Rugby
League competition saw South Sydney
winner of the minor premiership with 2fi
points. The other clubs left in the semi-
finals are Western Suburbs, (22), Eastern
Suburbs (IS) and Balmain (15). The sur-
prise of the day was the defeat of Wes-
tern Suburbs by Newtown at, the Sports
Ground, Newtown winning 17-7, though
the feat could not litt it tnto the first
four. South Sydney beat St. George ea.si \
a t Earl Park by 23-2, and North Sydney
avoided the ignominy of last place In- beat-
mg the Students 15-13. At Drummoyne
Oval, Balmain caught Eastern Suburbs on
° l } e . I^s a y s and ran out winner by
-4-15, much to the delight ot the local mui-
titude.
*** _ *
. “Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League is lament-
ing one of the worst seasons of its career,
in a football sense, having failed to win a
match against Englishmen or Queenslanders.
The outlook is not, improved by the fact
a first-class side ,will have to be found
fallinV off
P ne , ( ' aaso °f the ® tatc : ' t ;
I^ l d tai^f 1 rd 2
ctubs and elsewhere of many piomism"
young players who have not been available
for the big stuff - Anoth er, which has been
telling for some years, is the practical clos-
ing of a onee-profitable recruiting ground in
tlle Rugb y Tl]linn - Tbc built and mam-
tained itself for years on young men from
«wUnior.teams and it i<, finding i^difficalt
“fdVp
There hag beer | m blood ‘ between the city
country sections also for some time, and
“ ; th „ little o. ood
ttiat has donc gamo 11T ; ie &ooa ' *
” t .
The end of the N.S.W. Rugby union
season hove in sight on Saturday wiien
Drummoyne and Northern Suburbs met at
Sydney Cricket Ground. The game ended in
a victory for Drummoyne, after an extra
20 minutes had been played, by 22-16, or
three tries, two converted goals Mid three
penalty goals to two tries, both converted,
and two penalty goals. Neither side can
be congratulated on its showing, for the
game was one of the roughest for years,
two men from each side being sent off in
the second half. With occasional bright
patches, it resolved itself into a furious battle
between the opposing forwards, the backs
of both sides contenting themselves with
spoiling tactics for the most part. Among
the possibles for South Africa, Keliaher
considerably improved his chances by his
play on the Drummoyne wing, and the big
Northern forward Perrin also showed to
advantage. Mackney was another Nor-
therner to attract attention. At half time
Drummoyne led 16-10, but the Northerners
drew level just on time. Another 10 minutes
each' way saw Drummoyne add 6 points
and finish fresher than the opposition.
Manly is to meet Drummoyne next Satur-
day and the match will ring down the cur-
tain for the season.
(Continued on next page.)
The Australian mixed foursomes cham-
pionship at the big golf meeting at Adelaide
was captured by a brother and sister, Kate
and W. S. Hymill, of South Australia.
Both are States singles champions in their
respective classes, and among the formid-
able field they beat were last year’s winners,
Susie Tolhurst and Ivo Whitton.
“The Gaffer”: Following on the Olym-
piad, several of the British and Dominion
athletes took in the meeting of the Mon-
treal A.A.A. on their way back to England.
The Maorilander Lovelock won the mile
in 4min. 14 l-ssec., Lord Burghley the 440
hurdles in 555., Evenson the three miles in
14min. 26 2-ssec. and the South African
Joubert the 100 in 9 4-ssec. —all Canadian
records.


Footbrawl
“Five Ways” : The Queensland Australian
Rules football folk have carried a resolu-
tion calling on the Australian Council to
abolish the triennial carnivals on the ground
that the result does not justify the expense.
Further, it is alleged, the gathering ot tne
State teams gives the player pirates ol
Melbourne a chance to size up the calibre
of visiting players as a preliminary to
poaching them. The Queenslanders are at
the opinion that the new rules imposing
some months’ residential qualification on
players from other States are not half strict
enough, an opinion which has been heartily
endorsed by South Australia, another State
which has lost many of its ewe lambs to
the wolves of Yarraville.
* * * *
“Hoofer” : Rc those football kicking rec-
ords by Norman Ebsworth, of N.S.W., and
Dave Macnamara, of Melbourne (B.
22/6/’32), it may be worth noting that, while
Norman Ebsworth holds the drop-kick record,
the best N.S.W. figures for the place-kick,
70 yards 3 inches, stand to the credit of
Harry Hedger, for years manager of the
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution. The
feat was performed at Clifton Gardens in
1893. Hedger was an Australian Rules
player and one of those instrumental in
establishing the Australian game on an orga-
nised basis in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Rugby
Union side to tour South Africa next season
will be more representative than any
Union team previously sent abroad. In
the past selection has been confined
to N.S.W. and Queensland players, though
one or two Victorians made the last
trip to Maoriland. This time all three
States will be well represented and there is
e, very strong possibility that Westralia
may have 'a man in. The side as writer
would like to see it is: Ross, White, Beaton,
Young, Biilman, Malcolm, Cerutti, Judd,
Love. McCaffery, Mackne.v. Bland, Perrin,
Louden, Hodgson and Palfreyman, from
N.S.W.; McLean. Bennett, Lawton, Steg-
gall, Doneley, Bonis, W. White and J. Clark,
from Queensland ; Cowper, Sturtridge, Dewar,
Bridle, of Victoria, and Max Carpenter of
Westralia. Lawton should certainly go, per-
haps as player and assistant manager.
* * * *
“Huon”: It looks at last as if the Rugby
Union game will be played in every State
of Australia. The latest to hop in is Tas-
mania. A Rugby Union club has been formed
at the University, and by next season it is
hoped it will have been joined by others and
a State Union formed.
tj: * * *
“Gate”: They don’t mind paying to see
football in Johannesburg. All the reserved
seats for the Test match against Australia
on the Wanderers’ ground have been bought
up at two guineas each. The Wanderers’
is bare red earth rolled as flat as a billiard
table, and the wise men of the team will
take a good supply of elastic knee- and
elbow-bandages with them. Indeed, outside
Natal and the southern part of the Cape,
it is doubtful if the tourists will ever have
grass underfoot.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: When the English
Rugby League team was in Australia lately,
it was common knowledge that agents of
North' of England clubs were making offers
to leading N.S.W. and Queensland players.
This was in the teeth of solemn undertak-
ings made by the English authorities on
half a dozen different occasions. Now that
the agents are safe away on the high seas
it is divulged that two Queensland players,
J. Wilson and H. Gee, have been bought
on the hoof for shipment to Wigan. Each
receives an “honorarium” of £460, with a job
found, and a .sliding bonus of £4 10s. for a
win, £4 for a draw, and £3 10s. for a defeat.
Under an agreement between the Australian
and English controlling bodies an export
charge of £2OO per player must be paid to
the Australian authorities before the merch-
andise can be shipped. The whole business
has much in common with the old-time
slave trade.
* * # *
“Widnes” : Preliminary arrangements have
been made for the tour of the North of
England next year by an Australian team
of League footballers. Thirty-five matches
will be played, including three Tests, dates
for these being tentatively fixed for October
7. November 11 and December 16. The
Australians will pay all their own expenses
and take 70 p.c. of the gate for club fix-
tures and 65 p.c. for all others.
* * * *
The English Rugby League footballers left
the Shivery Isles the other day with a
clean- sheet, having won all their eight
matches. The tourists scored 299 points to
87, or 65 tries 52 goals to 17 tries 18
goals. The goal-kicking of fullback Sulli-
van was the feature of the whole tour. In
Australia he kicked 58 goals, and in M.L.
52. Adding to that 3 points for a solitary
try scored in a N.S.W. country match, he
finished with the score of 223 —almost cer-
tainly a record.
* * * *
“Iskander”: The Rugby League is contem-
plating the football conversion of America, a
country which, apart from a certain amount
of Soccer, confines itself to a murderous local
invention. There is one cockroach in the
consomme. The American game is confined
to the universities and high schools and is,
outwardly at least, rigidly amateur. Thus
the hope that the League, a professional
body, will establish itself in such an envir-
onment is a very faint one.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: In spite of all those glowing
cables, Australian tennis heads are still
wondering whether the promised visit of the
American tennis players will not turn out
like all its predecessors since 1920—a lemon.
The visitors were expected early in Novem-
ber. Already it is certain that Helen Wills-
Moody will not come. Helen, by the way
has been irritating the Americans by re-
fusing to undergo the drag of turning out
in their tournaments. At Wimbledon and
in the Wightman Gup stuff she is willing
to appear, but beyond that she will not go
P. M. Williams writes from Nairobi:—
You in Australia may think that McGrath, of
whom we have read in The Bulletin, is the first
tennis-player to exploit the two-handed backhand
stroke. F. Allen, known to everyone in Kenya as
“Digger,” has been noted for his use of this stroke
for years in our tournaments. He, of course, is an
Australian and was at school in Melbourne with
O’Hara Wood. Apart from his tennis, he is one
of the best cricketers we have in the Colony.
V ; 1> $
“Cut Shot” : According to the cables F. J.
Perry, who spread havoc among our Davis Cup
players in their match with England, may come
to Australia next year. He is playing in the
American tournaments and championships
mis. season, and will later go on to South
Africa. If he can manage the Australian
tour ue will probably bring his doubles part-
ner, G. P. Hughes, along as well. Perry-
promised to become a champion on his form
in America last season. This year he failed
to live up to his reputation at Wimbledon
and against Germany, but he is evidently in
the first dozen of the world’s players.
* * * *
Raymond Little, whose death by his own
hand in New York is reported, was one of
America’s leading tennis-players a genera-
tion ago, and a Davis Cup representative.
He played against Australia in the 1906
series in England, which was won by
Britain. Australia that year was repre-
sented in singles and doubles by L. O. S.
Poidevin and Anthony Wilding. Little
beat Poidevin. lie went down to the great
Maorilander. but, with H. Ward, downed
the Australian couple in the doubles.
The Nineteenth Hole
The amateur championship played for in
Adelaide went to R. 11. Bettington, of N.S.W.,
who, making a remarkable recovery after being
3 down at the 12th in the afternoon round,
beat the title-holder, H. L. Williams, of
Victoria, 2 up and one at the 17th. The
winner holds the N.S.W. championship and
captained the State in the last Windeyer
Cup tourney. A first-rank cricketer and
Rugby footballer at Oxford, he has also
appeared for N.S.W. in cricket. The pro-
fessional title went to the South Austra-
lian F. McMahon,
who has won his
State’s professional
championship four
times in the last
five years.
* *
“ Sandringham ” :
M. J. Ryan, the
Victorian amateur,
who so brilliantly
won the open golf
championship of
Australia at Ade-
laide, has both Aus-
tralian and Victor-
ian amateur titles
to his cred i t.
Nevertheless, he only
tackled golf seri-
ously some six years
ago, when it weaned
him from cricket
and football, in both
of which he played
first grade for South
Melbourne. Crick-
eter golfers of class
are not as uncom-
mon as many sup-
pose. R. H. Bet-
tington and Legh
Winser, of South
Australia, are
familiar Australian
examples, and Eng-
land has produced
many.
* *
“Hotham”: Pos-
sibly one reason why
the younger generation of Vic. golfers are
so exceptionally skilful is that the Cab-
bage Gardeners believe in breaking them
into competition golf at an early age. No
other State holds an annual boys’ cham-
pionship as Victoria does, and the system
has already borne good fruit. This year’s
contest begins at Kingston Heath, on Sep-
tember 7. Competitors must be under 19
years at that, date and members of affiliated
golf clubs. There is no entrance fee and
the championship will be decided by 18-hole
rounds, match-play knockout.
* * * *
“Chiverton”: Warwick, on the Darling
Downs, opens its annual golf tournament on
September 10, and has issued a general
defiance to the world. The star turn
will be the fight for the “Golf in Australia”
cup, given for competition between Too-
woomba, Stanthorpe and Warwick clubs.
Warwick has won the pot on seven occasions
and the others once each. Visitors of both
sexes are amply provided for with handi-
caps and other events, and will be honorary
members of the Warwick Golf Club through-
out the meeting.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: With the ■ championships
over, British golfers have been holding the
usual post-mortems and wondering dully
what the dickens is the matter ivith British
golf. The continued supremacy of the
Americans, who were taught to play the
game by Vardon, Taylor and Braid, is get-
ting on the Britons’ nerves. The explana-
tion seems to be that the American player,
amateur or professional, makes a business
of golf and refuses to regard it as a recrea-
tion. The country is full of experts who
teach it several days a week to novices and
others and these have no . counterpart
in Britain. Certainly the British club pro-
fessionals are supposed to coach members,
but they have so . many other duties that
coaching is not with them a full-time job.
The American pro., if of any class, disdains
to teach novices, and is rarely seen about
his club, for which he acts more as an
advertisement than anything else. The
attitude of the two peoples towards the game
is as far apart as the poles. With the
one it is essentially a sport. With the
other it is a difficult and exact science
which can only be mastered by intense con-
centration and assiduity.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The proposed alteration
'of the handicapping system hy St. Andrew’s
(B. 17/8/’32) reminds me that the crusted
institution has altered the rules much more
often than is supposed. One outstanding in-
stance occurred years ago, when teeing-up m
front of the discs when . driving off cost a
penalty stroke, but not distance. Two well-
known players were engaged, and one of them
Constantly infringed the rule at the tees.
At the next hole, his opponent waited until
he had driven and then walked to the next
green. Putting his ball down close to the
hole he went out in one. Asked what the
deuce he was doing, he claimed —and quite
correctly—that he had won the hole in two
—one for the stroke and a penalty of one
for teeing-up in front of the discs. Then
St. Andra’s got busy and the rule was
altered.
* * * *
“Hotham” : One result of golferette Susie
Tolhurst’s visit to England and her fine
showing in the women’s championships is that
a team of English women players may visit
Australia in 1934. More than once the possi-
bility of bringing out a male golfing side has
been mooted, and the idea has even.got._as
far as the arrangement of the preliminaries,
but the result has always been a postpone-
ment. One reason is that the amateur golfer
is usually a real amateur. If he has not
private means to permit him leisure for
long periods, it is difficult for him to aban-
don his business interests. Things are dif-
ferent with the women. Save for rare
exceptions, few of these are tied down to
anything more exacting than mere husbands.
* * * *
“Tomassie”: Like “Brassey,” I wondered
what crows did with the golf balls they
steal (B. 29/6/’32). I’m convinced that
like carnivorous animals they plant what
they cannot eat. I left a ball out and
used field-glasses to watch a crow at work.
The bird carried the ball to ploughed ground.
I saw it leave without the ball and marked
the spot. Raking the clods I found some
other foozler’s pill, persevered and found my
own. I recovered a number the same
season, planted on any kind of ground, but
always covered neatly with leaves, grass,
bark, manure, or clods, generally in a hole
just big enough for the ball. None of the
covering is turned over—it is simply lifted
and placed weather-beaten side up. A splendid
job is done with three or four gum leaves.
ENDANGERING HIS REPUTATION.
MR. MUG (missing a two-foot putt ): “Damn and blast it!”
MRS. MUG: “Clarence, be quiet! You’ll be getting a bad name
with those members over there.”
Car and Cycle
“Topsy-Turvy”: Malcolm Campbell has
been asked by some interested Australians
to try the dried-up bed of Lake George
(N.S.W.) when he goes after his next
record. If Campbell essays the lake course
he will make the second leg of a double
unique in sporting history. Years _ ago a
sculling race was rowed on it in which the
Englishman Bubear and a Sydney man
named Miller were beaten by Maorilander
Stevenson.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Belfast Tourist Trophy
race over the Ard circuit drew an immense
crowd, which got good value for its money.
The event was won by C. Whitcroft, driving
a Riley, in which he averaged 74.23 m.p.h.
during 4hr. 58min. The highest aver-
age was taken by Sir Henry Birkin,
who several times beat the lap record, his
best speed being 83 m.p.h. The course is
a- severe one, with many hairpin turns, at
some of which cottages stand. To prevent
serious injury to the inhabitants of these
and to the drivers, some were sandbagged
like war-time redoubts. Only eight finished
out of a field of 32 of Britain’s leading
drivers.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Arthur Wakeling, the
Melbourne amateur motor-cyclist, who last
year put up a new record for a round-Aus-
tralia ride —about 9750 miles —is going to try
to establish new figures. Starting from Mel-
bourne on a 31 h.p. single Triumph, he will
do the round via Sydney, Brisbane. Mt. Isa,
Darwin, Broome, Perth and Adelaide. Wood-
ward and Mayor drove a car round the con-
tinent in 46 days. Wakeling means to beat
this in addition to his own record. The
cycle will be fitted with an extra-large
petrol tank, while Dunlop’s are supplying
special tyres. The machine, with travelling
gear, will weigh about 4cwt.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The next Australian Tourist
Trophy race for motor-cycles will be held
on Phillip Island (Vic.) in January. The
South Aus. Auto-Cyclists’ Union has asked
the Yic. body controlling the show to include
an inter-State teams race in the programme,
and this will probably be done. Queensland,
which for some years has been asking that
the T.T. races be held in the Northern State,
has again been turned down. The fact
that the promoters of this event have so
far confined it to Victoria, Tas. and South
Aus. has not popularised the contest in the
other States.
“Sprocket" : The senior arid junior Aus-
tralian amateur road-cycling championships,
held in Tasmania, were both taken by Vic-
toria, four of the Australian States. sending
representatives. The senior, over 62 miles,
was won by E. Milliken in 3hr. Omiu.
16 2-ssec., with J. Gould of N.S.W. second.
The junior event over 25 miles went to L.
Beacall, whose time was lhr. 7min. 27
3-ssec. The N.S.W. road champion, Johns,
had three punctures but got home only 10
minutes behind the winner.
* * * *
“Davies Park” : Cyclist Hubert Opperman
has been telling a Brisbane interviewer that
the System of cycle-racing in Australia is
obsolete and does not give our riders a chance
to compete on anything like equal terms with
those of other countries. Racing in Aus-
tralia is conducted under a system long
abandoned in America and Europe, handi-
cap racing being practically unknown over-
seas, though rigidly adhered to on this side.
There are real scratch champions to be
found in Australia, but the handicap system
prevents them from showing their true
worth. Still, “Oppy” hasn’t much to growl
about. The Australian system has given
the Victorian ex-telegraph messenger a
chance to become a professional rider of
international reputation and an affluent one
to boot. It never pays to kick down the
ladder by which you have climbed.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth” : The English cricket selectors
have decided on the team for Australia, the
16th man being Mitchell, a slow right-hand
leg-break professional from Derbyshire. He
has taken 108 wickets to date this season
for an average of 21.72. Provided Duleep-
sinhji, who is suffering from neuritis, does
not drop out, the complete teani is now
Jardine, Duleepsinhji, Pataudi, Wyatt,
Brown and Allen (amateurs) ; Sutcliffe,
Ames, Hammond, Leyland, Voce, Larwood,
Verity, Tate, Mitchell and Duckworth. It
reads a wonderfully strong side, with variety
in bowling and powerful batting.
“Tenth Slip”: One cannot but be im-
pressed with the strength of these English
bowlers. Here’s the list: Fast right-hand,
Larwood and Allen; fast left-hand, Voce;
fast-medium right, Tate; medium right,
Hammond and Wyatt; slow right, Brown
and Mitchell; slow left, Verity. Leyland
is also a useful lefthander with 17 wickets
up to last week, while Hammond has 43.
All the others are over the 50 mark, Lar-
wood heading the list with 134. Five had
taken over 100 wickets. In Australia we
have Grimmett, but, with the exception of
the aged Ironmonger, no one else of the
tried brigade who can be honestly _ styled
first-class. Fleetwood Smith, of Victoria,
and O’Reilly, of N.S.W.. may fulfil lasi
season’s promise. Let us hope so!
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : J. B. Hobbs has figured
in another unfortunate affair like tne
“Kippax incident” at Sydney C.G. His
latest outbreak occurred in a match between
Surrey and Yorkshire at Kennington Oval.
Bowes, the Yorkshire fast bowler, took
advantage of a fiery pitch to make the ball
fly round J.B.’s ears by bumping them
short. The veteran protested bitterly, and
finally rubbed it in by walking down the
pitch and ostentatiously patting down the
turf a foot or two in front of the popping
crease. Hobbs was severely handled by the
critics, and rightly so. All fast bowlers in-
dulge in that trick, as anyone who has
seen Jack Gregory and Larwood in action,
to mention only two, cannot but admit.
* * * *
“Ferox”: In spite of Gordon’s dictum
about the value of danger in sport, there
are games which would be all the better
for a little official control, particularly
bowls, which has a long history of casual-
ties. The other day in Brisbane a bowler
chanced his arm to such an extent that the
bowl—the pitch presumably being a bit
bumpy or something—hit one of the oppos-
ing team in the eye. I witnessed a similar
occurrence quite recently. A player de-
livered a furious driving shot, and an elderly
gentleman at the other end failed to get
out of the way before it ran over his corns
The poor fellow dropped as if shot, and
when he had been carried into the bar it
took ten minutes and a dozen spots to bring
him round.
% * * *
“Spinnaker”: The coming season for open-
boat racing on Sydney Harbor will have its
share of the general depression. There may
be a cut in the prize money unless the
steamer takings improve, but as the running
of a racing 18 is a costly affair, the reduc-
tion of the £35 standard set last season will
not be attempted if it can be avoided. The
big annual fight for the national champion-
ship, held at present by Queensland, will
be sailed on Port Jackson in January. The
race for the Dumaresq Cup on October S
will be marked by a new departure, for the
lilywhites of the “yacht” clubsi—quite dis-
tinct from the professionals of the mere
“boat” clubs—will actually furnish skippers
to compete with the pros. They will have
a rare chance to pick up the fine points of
sailing ‘* , * *
“Igloo”: If anyone had said a few years
ago that Australia would be sending a team
abroad to take part in ski-racing and other
winter sports in Europe the Supe. Mac-
kay of that day would have had him sent to
the Reception House. Now, thanks to the
snow-laden conditions of this dry and and
desert land, such a thing is possible. Three
men and three women will journey to Europe
next winter, there to compete in the inter-
national ski-races. As pioneers, their names
may be set down. They are: Mdlles. K.
Moore, H. Mitchell and B. Collms. and
Messrs. T. Mitchell, J. Collins and E. Soder-
steen. Quaintly enough, the Collins pair are
of a stock well known in Queensland, . a
State not remarkable for the extent of its
snowfall or the size of its icebergs.
* * * *
J. J. Miller’s “Sporting Annual” for 1932
is to hand, and is worth any sportsmans
florin. The book is a necessity to -all inter-
ested in the spring meetings. Racing and
athletic times and records are brought up
to date.


TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
Cbmmoiwcaltl) Savinas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
THE "WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
-3d..
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Last week the cave-dwellers of the Con-
servatorium, and all those citizens who have
their being on the heights behind Paling’s,
came out into the open, with the rest of
their brethren, clashed the loud cymbal and
took possession of the city. In short, Music
Week was on; and belonging to that blessed
company of those who are “in it” were
equally the trombone player from the flat
near by, who makes the night hideous for
you, and she who, up above you, her hair
in the curl rags of mother’s desire, does
her 20 minutes night and morning in a
welter of wrong notes.
A fine and sonorous prologue to the
week, which started on Friday, was. Trixie
Tange’s concert on the Thursday night at
the Savoy. Trixie is a high-voltage player,
with plenty of reserve strength and a
si reamline body, and concert grands fawn
upon her even as the lions fawned upon
Una. After proving her intimacy with the
Old Masters of composition, Trixie intro-
duced to Sydney Josef Suk’s minuet and a
nocturne for the left hand, by York Bowen.
Anthropologist E. W. Chinnery displayed
two trump cards at the party given by the
Women’s Club in honor of the visiting
scientists. One was his lecture on the men
and ways of New Guinea (this was served
with lantern slides) ; the other was his
sparkling little wife, who spends a good
deal of her time in Sydney with the baby
Chinnerys. There . lias never been a
party of greater size in the club; the
three floors were invaded, and the bal-
conies overlooking Hyde Park held enchanted
gazers all the evening. Pretty Daphne
Lowe was the songbird, and the Hubert
Murrays were among the honored. Lavmia
Patterson, the bio-chemistry girl, who spent
some time with the great Dodds in Middle-
sex and Janet Raff, the silverfish sleuth,
who declares that the little pets will starve
rather than consume pure silk or wool,
made an irresistible appeal-to. this Letter.
Janet had some nice raiment in pink, and
Lavinia wore her hair snooded smoothly, as
becomes one with a name like her-s. Dr.
Jane Greig and Dr. Gertrude Hallejr were
in a group tliat included Mrs. Muscio and
l)r Sandford Morgan. The Professor Gib-
sons, Dr. and Mrs. Walko-m, the Profes-
sorial Fawsitts and many others who wear
their brows high juggled just vis helplessly
as any of us with a plate, a coffee cup and
a sandwich. The triangle is all right, but
the problem of transport has yet to be
solved by some unborn Euclid. Mrs. W.
H. Read in black-and-white patterned chif-
fons, Mrs. Watson Munro and sculptor
Tlieo Cowan, both in black velvet, and
Mrs. Basil Foulds in honey-gold geor-
gettes were among the group of hostesses
who helped the smooth running of the even-
ing.
The George Earps positively plunged in
arranging their party. It was gilded to
the last degree, and, like the King and
Queen in Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinderella,”
they seemed to thoroughly enjoy the sight
of four or five hundred people eating and
drinking at their expense. The Royal Syd-
ney Golf Club was the scene, .and the sur-
roundings presented quite a spirited picture
fiom half-past three onwards, with motors and
taxis of every vintage decanting Sydney’s
noblest and best —well, at any rate, best-
known. First you went into- the reception-
room on the left, said “How do you do?”
to Mr. Earp, who had his glossy silk hat
in his hand, and to Mrs. Earp, who. wore
her new spring hat slightly on the side of
her head, which is the way the most , ex-
pensive liats are worn. It was of apricot
baku, and was shallow, as to crown -and
wide-brimmed. Her chiffon frock was of
the palely-golden tone, and her posy was
of wallflowers 'and stocks. Daughter Mrs.
Rednall and Mrs. Mason, the one in leaf-
browns, the other in berry-reds, helped
mother in greeting the decorated and the
merely well-dressed, with whom presently
the lawns and verandahs were crowded.
And the view out beyond the trim Rose
Bay .lawns, the dark of. its green and the
spreading candelabra of its coral trees, was
feast enough—till somebody said tea, and
you went inside to find strawberry cake.
The G.-G.’s lady was the swell of the
party. She wore one of those dresses in
which’ the corsclette top and sleeves are of
white and the skirt of black; the two sec-
tions in this case were made of satin, and
sho wore a white arctic fox. She Drought her
now secretary, Miss Dulcie Graham, wit it
her, and this lady’s brown frocking was
among the favorably noted. The Mayoral
Walders held a little court on the lawn,
she remindful of a bunch of red sweet-peas
in her bright-colored suit and hat. The
handsome Norman Lowes, the W. G. Lay-
tons and Miss Crowdy were among the
popular. Hubert Murray towered high;
his lady, in petunia chiffons and a black
sailor, carried a posy of pink sweet peas
given to her by the hostess, while Lady
Isaac’s catch was one of violets. David Car-
ment and his daughter were noticed among
the science-minded. Other guests were Ray-,
mond Firth, Senator Kingsmill and his wife,
Dr. Younger Ross and Dr. Jane Greig (Mel-
bourne), the George Julius pair and Mrs.
Muscio, lots of Consular couples (including
America’s newly-arrived Caldwells), former
Chief Justice Cullen and his Ailsa, the
Mungo MacCallums, the H. S. Dettmans,
Mrs. W. Macleod, C. M. C. Shannon (as
awe-inspiring as a Douglas Credit lecture),
and Oswald Cheeke, all surrounded by a
wealth of flower decorations, including
stocks whose stems seemed feet long.
Monty Grover, whose new serial “One-
Punch Patsy” will be starting in The
Bulletin next week, is that glad thing a
man facing towards health after a long
sickness. Monty was only three days out
of his Sydney hospital wlien he made the
train journey to Melbourne, and on his
arrival found to his surprise that bed and
rest made an irresistible call.
Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert did
wonders with the pageant which was, as
usual, the star turn at the International
Ball. Pie had thought that, as nobody wants
to spend much on fancy costumes these
times, the march-past would lack in the
pictorial; but actually the show was quite
good. The pageant set out to follow the
work the League hag done, and banners
hearing the legend of its progress were
carried by fourteen white-robed girls who
represented the nations in the Council of
the League. After them marched 56 girls,
each carrying the flag of an associated
country. Some wore national costume, and
these were vivid among the white frocks.
.The affair filled the Biaxland Galleries
with men and women of many lands; for
this ball never fails in appeal to the differ-
ent foreign groups in Sydney. Ecuador
and Mexico, Esthonia, Finland and Latvia,
as well as France, Italy, Germany, China,
Japan and a dozen or so more, were present
iu their Consuls; Lady Isaacs, very hand-
some in white satin and silver and an envi-
able necklet of jade, smiled with Sir Philip
Game on a flutter of debs. Miss
Graham and Lieutenant Finlay were Ladv
Isaacs’s supports, Miss Graham in leaf-green
If*™-, Ciff and Miss Crowdy came in Sir
I lnlipi s train ; and in the same group were
* , bert , Mum .>-ys, her satin the color
fh® *ky after rain and of the newest line.
Chief Justice Street and Mrs Kenneth
Street the Mayoral Walders, the Premier
and Mrs. Stevens, and Professor Francis
Anderson and Mrs Anderson were impor-
tant people at the party.
Robert Johnson is capturing the fancy of
the private collector with the brilliance of
Ins oil colors.
Since The
Bulletin es-
tablished the
Macleod Gal-
lery in March,
no fewer
than eight of
his landscapes
have been
bought from it
for private col-
lections. This
artist is a
M a o r ilander.
and studied
underA.Nichol
and E. Tris-
trom before he
went to France
and studied
under Mars
for four and
a half years.
He is repre-
sented in the National Galleries of N. S.
Wales, Westralia and Queensland, and in
the galleries of Auckland, Wellington and
Dunedin, his. chief work being in Welling-
ton—a painting of the Spit, Middle Harbor.
The Bulletin photographer caught him at
his easel.
When the Mayoral Walders dropped in at
Oswald Cheeke’s cocktail party for the
Brownlees, a regular barrage of chaffing met
Mrs. Sam because of the photograph of her-
self and the baritone which had appeared
in a paper above the caption “John Brown-
lee and his wife.” This was a bi-lingual sort
ot hour, for the French Consul-General was
there with his lady, and she knows very little
English. Mrs. Moreing, who came with her
tather, Spencer Brunton, was talking to
them, but not about “the strawberries of the
gardener’s daughter.” Mrs. Sep Levy and
Mrs. Monty Severn were two belles of the
afternoon ; and Mrs. Walter Brunton and Mrs.
Milner Stephen, Mrs. Borsdorff. of the
amazing complexion, and Burlington Bertie —
Ella Shields —were others who helped to
reduce the supply of olives on the market.
Not an over-full Town Hall greeted John
Brownlee’s first concert, but all the city’s
musically-minded turned up, including Roland
Foster and fragile Emily Marks, who repre-
sented Music Week on the red carpet. This
wms spread beneath the feet of civic dignity,
the Mayoral Walders being important
people of the night. With them came Mrs.
Brownlee, her jade-green frock wrapped in
a green velvet cloak and silver-fox furs;
Mrs. Milner Stephen, in rose-spattered
chiffons, with her Justice; Dr. Arundel
Orchard and Oswald Cheeke. It was a
stirring concert, and pianist lloy Shepherd
and soprano Rita Miller deserved their
nibble of the laurels. Rita Miller with her
straight, black, bobbed hair and crinolined
white frock suggested a telephone doll in a
bridal suite. Taken with the sweet cool
notes of her voice, the snow-white flounces
with their embrodery edges gave an effect
of what the male mind describes as “so
feminine,” and after her first number she
was knee-deep in flowers. After the con-
cert the Lud Mayor and his lady had an
intimate supper party in the Mayoress’s
reception-rooms.
At midday on Friday, to the pealing of
the bells of St. Mary’s, the Pageant of
Music through the Ages got under weigh
at the Conservatorium. Ethelwyn Kirk, the
girl in this Bulletin photograph, was re-
sponsible for
the float show-
ing David in
a sheepskin
playing before
Saul, while
slave girls
waved palm-
leaves (pro-
bably to cool
the King’s
anger). Blues,
reds, whites
and purples
glowed vivid
iu this group,
in conti'ast to
the grey of
the day; the
blue was par-
ticularly worth
a glance—to
get the exact
blue of that
period Ethel-
wyn herself had done the dyeing. The only
wrinkle of worry on her brow was caused
by the soldier-escort being dressed in the
Roman instead of the Egyptian manner.
Another float, Music in the Time of the
Elizabethans, owed much to her design; and
she and Don Finley, who helped in the whole
performance and was entirely responsible for
the Radio float, deserved the applause they
won in the city streets.
Nor must mention be omitted of the choir
of small girls on the float showing the link
between music and Christianity. Herein the
angels sang to the shepherds on the hill
outside Bethlehem; it was the contribution
of one of the convent schools to the pro-
cession. The classic float from the Burla-
kov school of Russian dancing was another
delight.
By the time this Letter struggles into its
wrapper, much of the tumult and the shout-
ing of Music Week will have died; but on
Friday Nathalie Rosenwax is staging her
all-Australian composer concert at the Con-
servatorium. It is the only dinkum Aussie
programme of the seven days, and works by
Varney Monk, Arline Sauer, . Nellie
Weatherill, Arnold Mote, Alfred Hill and
Frank Hutchens will be served at the hands
and voices of our own musicians. Rene
Maxwell will sing lyrics from Alfred Hill’s
“Auster,” and with Lance Jeffree and chorus
will sing the duet and finale of “The Island
of Palms,” by Mrs Brown and Arnold Mote,
which was placed first in the operetta com-
petition. Frank Hutchens’s piano quintette
is another of the star events. Finally the
music revel will fill David Jones’s ballroom
on Saturday with music celebrities of every
age and every clime. Characters and sets
from all the operas will appear in the pro-
cession, and the affair threatens to be a
greater success than last year’s.
John Brownlee and his wife are being
petted to purring point. He is amiable and
a trifle plump; she is dark and vivid, and
wears picturesque hats and rich furs. The
Musical Association’s party to them crowded
out the annexe of David Jones’s. At this
Mrs. Brownlee might have been an adver-
tisement for somebody’s washing blue. She
wore a blue frock and a small hat flat to
the side of the head like a blue halo gone
adrift, and the two were separated by a
silver-fox fur worth at least a whole evening
of husband’s notes. Soprano Rita Miller
and pianist Roy Shepherd were others who
sat at the official table. Here, too, were
the Charles Lloyd Jones couple, who are
active in the affairs of Music Week, as be-
fits the head of our Broadcasting Commis-
sion.
A fitting usher to Music Week was Bird
Week, and the pictures shown by the Gould
League in the Education Department Gal-
leries nail for ever the lie that our bush
is without color. If never a flower bloomed
in it, the finches and the parrots, the wrens,
the rosellas and the magpies, not to speak
of dozens of others gay of wing and smooth
of plumage, would fill the green aisles with
gold and scarlet, pink and blue, and that
most chic of all combinations black and
white. The celebration closed as it should
do with a concert in which bursts of song
and bird-calls from groups of school-kiddies
were recurring turns. Archie Ranclaud at
the organ and a speech by Roland Foster,
president of Music Week, rounded off the
thing. Such bird-lovers as A. 11. Chis-
holm, N. W. Cayley, Michael Sharland and
Tom Iredale gave instructive lectures dur-
ing the week, and school-children of all
ages and sizes haunted the gallery with
voluminous notebooks and busy pencils.
Judith Osborne, of Bungendore, became
Mrs. Tom Raine on Saturday afternoon
at All Saints’, Woollahra. She wore he:
mother’s wedding dress of vellum satin
brocade, which (so far back have our fashions
travelled) had scarcely to be altered, and
family lace. The veil, too, was a family
heirloom, and was worn in conjunction with
posies of orange blossom. Canon Langley
made the knot secure, and cocktails were
drunk under mother’s supervision at No. 11
Onslow-avenue (mother is Mrs. R. T.
Osborne). Mrs. Ashleigh Davy and Nuttie
Mackellar followed in the bride’s wake,
while Bill Gordon and Bob Osborne stood
by the ’groom.
This Letter -went to call on the Rudds at
the Capitol the other night, and found half
the city, or so it seemed, already there. The
evergreen humor and pathos and courage of
“On Our Selection” held the audience; and
the scenery, from the beginning, when the
kookaburras laughed uproariously as if they
were remembering a good one against Dad
and Dave, was typical of the kindly hill and
valley of this country of ours that is so
eager to give, Bert Bailey is as human a
Dad on the screen as on the stage, and the
famous speech in which he tells of the selec-
tor, whose spirit fire and flood and drought
cannot break, nightly meets with rounds of
applause. Everything about the picture
appeals more than the melodrama surround-
ing Kate, the almost too cityfied daughter
and her two smart-looking young admirers.
Still, that part of the story can be swallowed
when there is such jam of comedy around if
as the courtship of the younger sister and
Billy Bearup, and of Dave and his Lil, who
find the language of Cupid in a bag of
“conversations.”
Queensland queues up :
Szigeti got unstinted appreciation from true nrasic-
lovers, but hardly the crowded houses he deserved,
in the City Hall. However, he finished his season
with two extra recitals.
Lena Hammond and Gladys Frost filled the Albert
Hall for their concert. Parchment-colored angel-
skin was worn by the singer and Gladys Frost dis-
played her favorite green in taffetas with a floral
design. Margarey Stewart, who played the ’cello,
was sheathed in jade velvet.
The third annual dance of the Jewish Women's
Guild was held in the Carlton Cabaret. Deputy-
Governor Blair and his lady received the deb-.,
Nancy Phillips and Clare Koslinsky, wearing parch-
ment taffetas and ivory satin respectively. The
Blair lady picked midnight-blue chantilly lace; the
Mayoress wore snow-drift lace; Mrs. Levine chose
primrose; Mrs. Cohen lido blue; and floral georgette
was donned by Mrs. Philip Frankel. Rabbi Levine
was among those present.
Mrs. Margaret Menzies, mother of Drs. John and
Andrew Menzies, died last week in her 79th year.
Born in Glasgow, she came to Australia over 70
years ago; her father, Andrew Robertson, was secre-
tary of the School of Arts in Creek-street on the
site of the present Q. N. Bank, and Brunton Stephens,
the poet, was her tutor. Her husband died 40 years
ago. She spent seven years in America, where her
sons studied at Penn. University.
Deputy-Governor Blair had lunch with the com-
mittee at the Tattersall’s Club Gold Cup meeting,
and his wife hostessed a tea in the afternoon,
wearing navy crepe de Chine. Mrs. Ray Stanley
chose dove-grey, Elsie Stirling was in forget-me-not
blue, Mrs. Guy Atherton (Warwick) wore brown
and beige, Mrs. G. L. Fox (China) picked holly-
wood green.
At St. John’s Cathedral, Andrew Leslie Tolrnie
married Florence Helen Baines. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in ivory georgette
and Brussels net veil. Thelma Rea and Kathleen
Tobin ’maided in pale green and autumn tints.
Joan Mumford, in pink georgette, was trainbearer.
The reception was at the Canberra.
Margaret Mackay, of Tambourine Mountain, died
last week. In 1914 she succeeded Miss Walker as
headmistress of the Brisbane Girls’ Grammar School,
retiring eight years ago.
Stanley Hodgson married Stella Thompson in St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory satin and Brussels lace
veil. Thelma Thompson ’maided in blue; June
Milham and Jean Cox were flower-girls in pink.
The W. E. A. play competition was won by G.
L. Dann, with Llywelyn Lucas, J. McGrath and Doris
Waraker runners-up.


Of IncalculabEe Value
to the Athlete, the Man or
Woman over Forty, the Weak-
est Child, the Modern Girl!
-4 i
w
Price
65/-
Supe r Athlete’s
Model
77/6
“CLASSIC”
Home Rowboat
EXERCISER
Row! Reduce! Rejuvenate!
Scientific exercising for al!
members of the family !
The “Classic” Home Rowboat Exerciser is
not experimental. It is a rational system of
physical exercise for old and young, approved
and endorsed by the medical profession and
physical culturists the world over. Apart from
bringing every muscle of the human anatomy
into play and strengthening the internal org-
ans, the rhythmical rowing motion is a
mental stimulus.
• It is strong enough to stand any pull.
0 It is built to stand hard wear.
0 The springs always return to their normal condition.
0 It is adjustable to any size person.
0 It can be used on any floor —the rubber buffets give
steadiness and prevent floor-marking.
See it demonstrated in the Gymnasium Section on the Ground Floor.
( Freight extra on Rowboat Exerciser)
ll Letters to Box 188, P. 0.. Haymarket. Sydney
Mick Simmons Ltd
720-2 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
‘The Premier Sports House of Australia“
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A chill drizzly Saturday morning warned
patrons of the Williams!.own races to expect
the worst, but the weather took a turn and
there was sunshine after luncheon, though
the wind was cold. The only trace of spring
finery in the fashion parade was a few
straw hats, in most, cases allied with fur
coats.
Vi Miscamble was leader of a committee
which, engineered a dance at the Wattle Park
for the Children’s Hospital. Her cerise
velvet frock had as accessories a cape and
muff of the same material. Alison Clark and
Joyce Dean were ticket-secretaries. Official
guests were the president of the hospital
committee, Mrs. Lauchlan Mackinnon, whose
ermine cape topped a gown of holly-red
georgette traced with gold ; and Mrs. T. W.
White, president of the Central Auxiliary,
who wore a wood-brown lace frock. Members
of the St. Kilda Operatic Society contributed
cabaret items.
Former students of - the C. E. Girls’
Grammar School had a dance at the school.
Guests were welcomed by the headmistress,
Miss K. A. Gilman Jones, who was robed in
black velvet, and the president of the 0.G.5.,
Dr. Lucy Bryce, in tourmaline-pink lace.
Secretarial duties were shared by Mrs. ,T. L.
Cuming, w r ho danced in ruby-tinted lace, and
Vivienne Betty Stephens, whose black velvet
frock had puff sleeves of silver lame. Mrs.
James Barr, Sybil Taggart and Joan Elvin
were on the committee.
At the Wentworth there was a hop for
the Children’s Hospital, expenses being met
by Mrs. Playle, the proprietress. The new
ballroom, erstwhile the site of our swankiest
minnie golf links, has a beautiful inlaid
floor and -is most artistically decorated.
Mrs. Ernest Poolman, who danced in berry-
red lace, shared the duties of hon. ticket
sec. with Mrs. W. I. Winter Irving. On
the committee were knight Frank Clarke’s
wife; Mrs. Stanley Elder, who wore royal-
blue georgette; Mrs. T. W. White, Mrs. R.
T. A. McDonald and Mrs. Alfred Couch-
man, all three in black lace, and Mrs. J. H.
Hewison, whose robe was black velvet
sprinkled with primroses. Betty Fogarty
sported rose-red georgette embroidered in
silver and black; her sister Celia chose
sappliire-blue Velvet, and Katherine Fogarty
was arrayed in bois de rose linen, with the
corsage bordered with flowers of the same
material. Marjorie Clarke’s biscuit-colored
pique was flowered in black. Betty Moore
was clad in white angel-skin with bands
of crystal. With her was Mary Harvey,
from Sydney, in black velvet with a border-
ing of white fur. Mrs. ,T. Roxburgh’s faint-
pink frock was contrasted with a pale-green
cape. Elyne Chauvel was another who
chose pink. Pamela Crowther, who was
accompanied by her fiance, Jim Hayne,
wore draperies of white angel-skin with a
blue embroidered Chinese coat.
The young lady pictured here by Dickin-
son-Monteath is Greta, daughter of Wing-
Comma nder
and Mrs. Eric
Harrison, of
this city, who
made he r
debut at the
Lud Mayor’s
ball. Her dad
is Director of
A e r onautical
I n s p e c tion,
and the lass
is a student
at the Emily
McPherso n
Co 11 ege of
Domestic
Economy.
Greta is one
of the grand-
daughters of
G. M. Pren-
dergast, mem-
ber for Foot-
scray in the
Assembly, and prominent in this State’s
politics for 40 years.
A dance was staged at. Ormond Hall by
the 11 debs. wh 0 came out at the M.L.C.
Old Collegians’ ball. Official guests, each of
whom received a posy, were the president
of the O. C. Club, Mrs. V. G. Anderson,
who wore black lace; the hon. sec., Edith
Barker, and the joint hon. secs, of the club’s
hop. Eva Hayler and Nancy Lee. The just-
out wore their dainty white gowns again
with wreaths of pink blossoms. Profits
went to the R.V.1.8.
The stage of the Town Hall sported tall
white columns and cypress-trees for the
cabaret dance of Prestige, Ltd., and in the
centre of the ballroom was a rockery.
Pupils of Madame Saranova did exhibition
dances. Profits went to the Lud Mayor’s
Fund.
Present-day boys of Xavier gave a cabaret
dance at the Town Hall to raise funds for
the college’s memorial chapel. Balloons in
the school colors, red and black, supplied
the distinctive note in the decorations Dur-
ing supper the band played the college songs
which were sung by all present. Mrs. Ray-
mond Buxton, president of the dance com-
mittee, was handed a posy. Mrs. Buxton’s
biscuit lace gown was topped with a moss-
green velvet coat. With her was her
daughter Dorothy, whose parchment-toned
velvet frock had a cape bordered with mink
Mrs. P. L. Coleman, who danced in filmy
pale-green lace, and Marjorie Burke, who
sported bottle-green angelskin, were the
secretaries.
i ca ' ( l P ai iy i n aid of C.W.A. funds was
held at Mrs. Harry Cresvvick’s, Yarrien
Toorak, and there were stalls for the sale
of flowers, smokes, cakes and sweets. The
Harrison Moore lady was chief organiser,
aided by Valerie Purves, Nest Malcolm,
Mrs. James Purves and Mrs. S. V. Sewell.
The president of the N.C.W., Mrs. I. H.
Moss, robed in black georgette and lace, gave
an account of some of her recent travels to
the associates of the Council at Menzies.
Mrs. J. C. Pickford, president of the asso-
ciates, who presided, was robed in violet
crepe de Chine. There was a musical
programme.
The Castlemaine branch of the C.W.A.
staged an exhibition of antiques to swell
its funds. Among the exhibits was a China
sugar-basin that belonged formerly to the
Bracebridge family of Atherstone Hall, War
wickshire. The Bracebridges won a niche
in history by financing Florence Nightin-
gale’s work in the Crimea. Some of them
accompanied her on her errand of mercy. A
good advertisement for the furriers was a
sealskin coat that has braved moths and
silverfish for 200 years. A brass kettle was
a sample of the work of a Scottish crafts-
man, who flourished 190 years ago. A silk
shawl left the loom two and a half cen-
turies back, and a woollen one had its origin
in tli'e seventeen-eighties.
Mrs. Gibson Stott poured tea at Menzies’
as a farewell to Mrs. Arthur Bullivant, who
after a long stay here, which included a
period in hospital, is returning to her station
home in N.S.W.
On League of Nations’ day in the
schools, junior members of the League’s
Union gave matinee and evening perform-
ances at Prahran Town Hall, the programme
including folk songs, dancing and peace
propaganda plays, and an exhibition illus-
trating characteristics and activities of
the 12 countries represented. Most attrac-
tive the children looked in their various
national costumes, and they bravely tackled
songs in foreign tongues.
Broothorn pictures here Mrs. _ John
Brownlee, who is getting her first glimpses
of S y d ney
just now
while her hus-
band is enter-
taining that
city with his
singing. She
is an Italian,
born in Turin,
and was the
Donna Carla
Oddone di
Feletto. Her
husband has
a passion for
motoring, and
during the
present tour
they travel by
car whenever
possible. Mrs.
Brownlee was
a student at
the Milan
Con. and is . , ■ ,
an accomplished pianist. fehe also did a
course of literature, history and science at
the Sorbonne.
Actress Margaret Rawlings, who was
accompanied by her husband, Gabriel Toyne,
launched a show of paintings in the new
gallery at Collins House. Over her navy
woollen frock Miss Rawlings wore a short
coat of dyed squirrel fur, and her dark-blue
boater hat had a red feather mount. Dora
Wilson, one of the painters represented on
the walls, handed Miss Rawlings a bunch of
daffodils.
Elsie Rennet, secretary of the senior
branch of the Y.W.C.A., who is off to Eng-
land for study, farewelled to an accompani-
ment of tea and music at Connibere Hall.
A welcome was given, also, to Irene L. Glas-
son, who has come from Adelaide to be
secretary for a term. The president, Mrs.
B. Stewart Cowen, and the board of
directors were hostesses of the party, at
which Mollie Warden and Mrs. Sheila
Marsden sang and Elizabeth Campbell was
pianist.
The engagement is announced of Beverley,
daughter of the late G. R. Jackson, and of
Mrs. Charles Cunningham, of Toorak, and
James, son of the late Colonel Walter Oswald
Watt, of N. S. Wales, and of the Lawford
lady, ’of Toorak.
At the mannequin show Georges, of Collins-
strcet, prevailed upon Margaret Rawlings to
don garments made from her own designs.
A black velvet princess robe with a white
organdie corsage and long bishop’s sleeves
was one of her bright ideas; and a black-
and-white plaid evening frock of gingham
with a spray of scarlet flowers attached to
the side of a flounce was another. The
actress also showed off a delightful suit of
very heavy silk crepe in string-color, worn
with a wee flat toque with some flowers a
tone darker.
From London comes news of the engage-
ment of Joan, daughter of the Andrew
Cliirnsides, of Edrington, Berwick, to Alec
Waugh, of Cheyne-place, London, who has
earned distinction as an author.
A handsome clock-tower has been erected
on the Upper Esplanade, at St. Kilda to the
memory of Carlo Catani, who was chief engin-
eer of the Board of Works, and who a quarter
of a century ago planned the very attractive
layout of the St. Kilda foreshore, con-
verting a neglected-looking locality into
gardens, rockeries and winding paths. When
money ran short he lent the necessary funds
without interest.
In “La Traviata” at the Royal, Cesarian
Valobra as Violetta sported in the salon
scene a black lace gown with a slight sparkle
of gold beads. On this white camellias
were scattered, and a wreath of similar
blooms decked the lady’s dark hair. In
the second act she carried a sheaf of daffodils
against a pale green frock that was topped
by a shady tuscan hat. Her death scene
was enacted in clouds of faint pink chiffon
and satin that melted into the furnishing-
draperies of rose du barri brocade. The
Tait families, and knight Robert Best,
with his lady and daughter Helene, occupied
the boxes, while in the audience were Mrs.
F. Thiel, Mrs. Id. M. Hewlett. Colonel
Harold Cohen and Mrs. Cohen, the W. T.
Crosbies, Mary Raws, Joan Syme, Mrs.
A. C. Moore, her daughter Betty and Mary
Harvey, Mrs. Percy Deane and Mrs. Scott.
On Friday, wliicli was Wattle Day, col-
lection boxes were rattled in the city streets
for the Free Kindergarten and other ehari-
ties associated with children. Stalls were
set up in sheltered spots beneath gaily-striped
awnings, and fair business was done with
home-made jams and flowers.
r .
1 assy topics:
The C. W. Butlers had a gathering of the clan at
Ashfield, Sandy Bay, to celebrate their golden
wedding. On view were two addresses presented by
the staff of Butler, Mclntyre and Butler, one on
the wedding day, the other on the present occasion.
„ , „ , ’ . , .
Busby Park district turned out in force to the
Soli v , , , r, . ~
ball organised by a band of Bright Young Things,
, 0 „„ , . ~ . ? ’
with Anita Parsons and Anthony Fenn-Smith as joint
, ~ ",
secietaries. Cootamundra wattle made the staple
, , ju v. r> i tt j ~
decoiation in the Busby Park Hall, and the supper-
rv Lr S Y w,th , holly>^ a P° mc! \ and “ ue IT f
mnd“ Went l p f . ro 7 town and most people
made a long week-end of it in the Derwent Valley.
Lieut.-Gov. Nicholls and his lady went up north
bo Atm on- o T ,
to be present at tne A.I.F. Ball in the Launceston
a ii,_„. T r ~ , , .
Albert Hall. About a thousand dancers were m
, , ■ , , , , , , , , .
action, and Armstrong’s orchestra played from
i,„, • , . , , , . . . . ~.
behind barbed-wire entrenchments to give vensimili-
, -ijji
tuae to the surroundings. Guests were introduced to
rr xf t>'a u- , ax , . , ~
President H. E. Ritchie and Mrs. Ritchie by the
r , , T , „ , r „.; , . ,
hon. sec., Gapt. E. E. von Bibra. Mrs. Ritchie’s
, , , , . , ,
irock was blue and apricot net, worn under a
. „ ~ , , 1 ’ _, ~
deiphimum-blue velvet wrap coat. The Mayoress
, „ . ~ J
was in green georgette with short darker green
velvet . 6
coa ee -
i lolet Day, held for the benefit of the Clarendon
Children s Home, was fine for once. Stalls did good
business and the violets made lovely patches of
color everywhere.
There was keen competition for the Nicholls
Bequest selection of local works of art for the
Launceston Art Gallery. Out of 70 pictures sent
in, 13 were approved by the judges. The artists
are Mrs. Greig, Mrs. Reid Bell, Misses E. Grieg,
E. Nicholls, H. S. Evershed and D. Keeling, Messrs.
Eldershaw, Dechaineux, J. Connor, E. Hill and W.
J. S. Fuller.
The Launceston Players staged four one-act
plays at the National Theatre and raised thereby a
good sum for the Mayoress’s clothing appeal. Pro-
ducers were W. Judd, Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre, Miss
Mary Hall and H. E. Gray, and the show was most
excellently put on. There is some talk of thc
company coming to Hobart and running a joint
performance with our Repertory Society for the
same object or for the Child Welfare Association.
The Motor Yacht Club had a big roll up at their
annual smoke-social, when J. G. Turner, G.O.M. of
acquatics in the south, was presented with an
illuminated address.
Mr. Thos. Lyons, popular chairman of the Tas-
manian Racing Club, has resigned his position after
many years of service, and his deputy, A. J. Miller,
reigns in his stead.
Adelaide annals :
Kooyonga Golf G’iub entertained the inter-State
golf visitors at the clubhouse, when a delightful
dance made a pleasing finish to the week’s play,
Numerous dinner parties preceded the shivoo. Mrs.
Herbert Rymill, captain of the club and mother of
the two young experts, Katherine and Bill, wore a
smart spring-green-toned georgette and saw that all
the visitors had partners.
Toe IT is having a welter of entertainment for
funds to help the good work. The head office will
benefit by the coming dance on the Manunda; this
week the Unley branch got busy and the local
Town Hall was crowded for its hop.
Mrs. Tom Garrett, of Sydney, is in Adelaide
with a number of her talented husband’s water-
colors, which will be on exhibition this week at the
Argonaut Galleries, North-terrace. Later on Mrs.
Garrett is taking her husband’s work to America.
The annual, ball at the Town Hall in aid of the
Kindergartens, held on Thursday night, was a
huge success. Beautiful flowers decorated the stage,
and th e supper tables were a splendor of mixed
blooms. Th e Man-i-ken parade, under the control
of pil 'ie Bush and John Bonython, provoked immense
merriment. Young men took the part of mannequins
and paraded in all the varieties of men’s attire.
The last item was a bridal group; the bride, Bob
Burns-Cuming (well over 6ft.), wore white lace
with veil and wreath; the bridesmaids were B.
Oldham and K. Treloar, hefty young men in red
and white floral chiffon. Pupils of Miss Nora
Stewart presented a beautifully danced ballet,
rnl ITr , ~
The ways of Westraha:—
. , , , , „ , ~ Tr
Ottalie, youngest daughter of Dr. and Mrs. House,
, ™ r, m i m
ct Albany, has become affianced to C. R. Blackett,
, „ - . , „ , . „ ’
of Gnowangerup. Another lass flashing an engage-
, , , . „,, , , , , ~r .
ment token is Betty, only daughter of Mrs. Goff, of
H avelock-street, and the late H. 0. Goff. Her
man is Chester Sticht. Wedding bells and farewell
streamerg in a few weekSj for thc youn g couple are
off t(j th 6 Cold Country the X j.s.
T , , , • , , . ~ .. . T TT ~ . „
Law students gyrated in the Y.A.L. Hall to the
... , „ , , T . , ~ ~ . . . ~
rhythm of Fred Nice and his “special jury. Mr.
T .. r, 1 r„„,„
Justice Dwyer patronised the shivoo and the Lavan
, . , ~ „. , ~ ~ ■
couple occupied the official corner—thc K.C. is
. . T , , , . ... , r „„
patron of the Law Students’ Association. Mrs.
t ~ . . . ~ , , , ~
Lavan was in the frou-frou of black taffetas and
, , ~ „ „ ~ , ~r „
bands of tulle; Mrs. Henry Moseley and Mrs. Solomon
, ~ , ~ J ~r ~ , , ~ .
chose black gowns; Mrs. Walker s velvet frock was
~ , -L , , ~ . „
patterned with pastel tints; Berme O Dea picked
, ~ ~ ’. , . . ,
sky-blue; Mrs. McMillan was in shrimp-pink; Mamie
„ , . , ~ . ~ , , ,
Brown was smart in her medley of black velvet and
net; Mrs. Alex Williams was another devotee of
b] ack , her frock being sprayed with ’broidcred
flowers ; Leith Harford’s gown flew a cloud of pastel
blossoms; Kathleen Connaughton was moulded into
ivory satin; a shower of misty leaves blew upon
Isabel Gregg’s rosy chiffons; Joy Hill’s frock blushed
shell-pink; Grace Thiel’s white garment showed a
demure patterning; and sister Phyllis sported a silver
jacket with her sunset-pinks; Hazel Forman was in
green, the same cheery shade putting a dash into
Jean Herbert’s parchment satin.
To celebrate its 21st birthday the Kindergarten
Union made a particularly strenuous effort during
this year’s appeal week. As a result, £7OO-odd
went into its money-box, more than half being the
harvest of street-collecting on Violet Day.
A swarm of youth and beauty came to Perth
station for farewells to Jo Vincent, who left for
her marriage with Tosh Raynor. Among last-
moment parties for the bride-elect were Winnie
Kitching’s linen tea and bridge-and-chatter parties
arranged by Betty Davies and Cath Cumpston.
The Molar Ball in Temple Court replenished the
coffers for the Dental Hospital. The “Dental Cought’’
male ballet did its bit with a prancing hula-hula
and there was also a “hiking” number. Noticed
among the dancers were Mrs. Gilbert Henderson in
black; Mrs. Bruce Campbell in a pink jacket over
her black draperies; Maisie Campbell in violet;
Edwina Ross in a creamy medley; and Gwenyth
Tebbutt with, camellias pinned to her black velvet
corsage.
Claremont Yacht Club held its annual beano in
its club rooms, canopied with flags and Chinese
lanterns and hundreds of bobbing balloons. The
delectable supper was prepared by the ladies’ com-
mittee. Among participants were the R. Long
couple, the Felix Levinsons, the Stan Burridges, Dr.
and Mrs. Sawell, the Charlie Merrys and a host of
others, mostly Claremont folk.
Perth Repertory Club and three affiliated country
clubs each presented a one-acter in the Assembly
Hall, proceeds of the joint effort going to the
School for the Blind. The Northam Club raised
a good laugh with “The Dear Departed.” In the
Bunbury Club’s piece by a local author, Frank
Trotter made a good job of the happily inebriated
sailor. “Bobbie Settles Down” was within the scope
of the Bruce Rock Thespians, and Perth offered up
“The Queen, God Bless Her,” with Tom McGregor,
Molly Learmonth and John Brooks.


m
/
SSrSr
/T
-1
1
At
CONCESSION RATESJ
to
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days
First-class Return .... £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return .... £75
Cabin-class Return ... £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour
First-class Return .... £45
Cabin-class Return . . . £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and Rarotonga—
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return .... £55
Cabin-class Return . . . £4O
(No Exchange.)
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne.
ŵ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
m
MB
m
DONT NEGLECT
CONSTIPATION
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
Once you try Figsen, you wiil know what thousands of persons
rn V NfiTSe* a TT y n discovered that FIGSEN CORRECTS
CONSIIFATION. Figsen is easy to take—it does not purge
or gripe it does not tend to promote the “laxative habit.”
rigsen assists the bowels to perform their natural function.
It is equally effective, equally safe for young or old, strong
or delicate. Figsen is a good friend which should always be
with you.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
become a conscious effort. He looked back
more frequently, ready to risk all in a
desperate sprint should the obviousness of
liis condition tempt the man behind to a
final dash. But the hunter had not drawn
appreciably closer to his quarry. His
stride lacked its initial vigor, though he
showed no sign of definite fatigue.
At ten. miles, with the front runner
tiring rapidly, they came on two men with
shotguns and dogs, who had lain in wait
for rabbits behind a pile of rocks. As he
passed them the fugitive’s breathing quick-
ened with a terrible apprehension. With
each step lie expected to hear the angry
hail of his pursuer, and the crash of the
shotguns behind, or the bloodthirsty whimp-
ering of the dogs at his heels. But the
rabbiters took no notice of the runners,
except to curse them for having disturbed
possible game. They were getting a bit
fed up with cross-country running, which
of late throughout the Valley exceeded the
limits of moderation. As for Chook, it
never occurred to him to enlist outside
assistance, even though his battered face
was twisted with a grimace of pain. He
passed the armed men and the dogs with-
out a separate thought for them.
Far away as the chickens were by that
time in miles, they were farther from the
fancies of hunter and hunted. All that
existed in the universe for Chook were the
ground beneath him, the sun rising higher
above him, and the man before him. The
running was the thing. To the fugitive
all that counted were the possible miles
in front, and the relentless man behind.
Gone was all fear of what the end of the
chase signified for him. The fact of being
overtaken would be the one humiliation and
defeat.
At twelve miles he was weakening
rapidly. Each lift and forward thrust of
his feet had to be concentrated on. H’is in-
halations seemed scarcely to get past his
throat. Another fence was before him. His
hands were bleeding after he cleared it, and
there were shreds of skin on the top strand.
As though to emulate such clumsy vaulting,
Chook left a strip of shirt on the same wire.
Another mile and the fugitive’s face was
contorted. He looked desperately around.
There was no promise of a respite from
the race, and he could not take another
fence. The ground was rising excruciat-
ingly before him. Already weakened by
exhaustion, his eyes were further harassed
by the sweat running into them.
He almost fell into the cutting before
he saw it. Fifteen feet below him a road
was carved into the rounded shoulder of
the hill* Again he looked desperately
right and left. If he followed the lip of
the miniature precipice on either hand, the
pursuer could easily head him off. Already
the pound of Chook’s feet reached him.
Only half-conscious of wliat he did he
jumped.
The jar as lie fell forward on his face
on the road beneath cleared his senses a
little. He was up and staggering on again,
with blood on his face and shoulders. He
heard the thump as Chook struck the road
twenty yards behind him.
Though the surface of the road was
smoother than the fields, he reeled sick-
eningly as he ran. This and the winding
of the way before him, and the ever-
increasing heat, brought giddiness on him
in growing waves. The footfalls behind
were louder.
As though leading to and constituting
his Ossa, the road commenced to ascend
steeply. At that resignation took the place
of instinctive hope. He raised his sagging
head for a final glance in front—a last
despairing search for deliverance. The road,
now, mockingly enough, running into a
long straight, rose steeper and steeper to
a crest on which incongruously by the way-
side grew a tree. He could see the black
patch of shade it cast—unattainable shade,
for it was nearly a mile distant,
Still the footfalls were behind. Still
he managed to keep on. Mentally he was
experiencing strange gaps when he could
not remember running, and, recovering,
was surprised to find that he had _ not
stopped. Returning to consciousness from
such a lapse, he wondered why he was
running at all. Was he making for some-
thing, or away from something? If the latter,
what was driving him? A long time ago,
he considered, there had been something
behind.... that would be other competi-
tors, of course. There had been a big field
for this event He could not hear
them and was too weary to look behind,
The matter worried him vaguely, until
finally lie felt, compelled to look back,
His eyes at first failed to separate; Chook
from a blur of road and fences. When dimly
he realised that his pursuer was down, lie
was astonished at liow remotely the know-
ledge affected him. It didn’t matter....
nothing mattered. The tatters of will
vibrated again, tie would try to make the
crest. If he could just stagger to the top
of the rise, and rest tor a few minutes, or
a few seconds, in the shade of the tree ! The
falling ground on the other side would be
peace to his weary body and burning lungs,
Dimly conscious of it, he struggled forward
to the crest, and the tree and the falling-
ground beyond, and freedom. ’
He was almost there. A flash of glass
and nickel, aiid a car roared over the crest
almost on top of him. It slewed across -the
r °ad and stopped. The, driver,. an immacu-
late young man, -with powder on one lapel
and a metal badge on the: other, sprang out
and clasped the fainting runner in a mighty
hold.
“Gotcha!”, he said, in a voice that was
fb e echo of Chook’s. .
The captive crumpled unresistingly.- He
was deposited ungently beneath- the tree that
had seemed to him a goal and a sanctuary,
A. few yards down the road Chook
twitched in the sun. Sluggishly the rcalis-
atlon came, to him that the quarry was gone.
w hy gpt- up ? Why not lie in the road thus
and just rest? But the sun was scorching
him. Under that tree on the crest, then.
How far was it ahead? Fifty paces?* Too
far! H’e raised a ponderous head and
-through, his fog at the tree, and saw the
shmmg car, and its triumphant driver, and
the captive crumpled on the ground,
Chook rose to his knees and looked again.
He_ staggered to Ms : feet and swayed pre-
canously. He took, a few deep breaths to
« tead y himself, and wobbhngly covered the
a *ty paces. -
Again lie looked at the captive, and the
i, smug driver,
, • i ‘ ie maiia & ed to gasp. You got
T x,r, ,
Yes, I „ot him. Mum heard the shotgun,
and saw you both pounding ’cross country,
a 7 ld got scared of- what you d do. and
m v?
meak Whale into him, Dad.”
Chook sti i] breathed bubblingly. His
vnontli worked in a mottled face, and his
muscles bunched in ridges. His rage mounted
j al . above the peaks of its previous loads.
“You got him!” he articulated again. He
lunged forward and emitted a weak roar.
IBs brawny arm reached out. It swept
Chick away in a ludicrous backward run. that
finished only when tlie front bumpers of the
car caught him behind the knees. There
against the radiator, Chick collapsed in a
sitting posture that was more eloquent of
exhaustion than that even of the captive,
“You got him, did you?” snarled Chook.
“In a forty-horsepower car vou got him !
You got him! You fool, if I was to put
him on his feet now, after a minute’s
rest, he’d eat you! Going to give him a
crack, were you? Lucky you thought better
of it! Want me to whale into him, do you?
Curse nie, but I’ve a mind to whale into
you ! Oh, you strapping young specimen !”
Chook’s breath was much stronger, which
he proved by a profane reference to the
existence of motor-cars in running men’s
country.
The weak voice of the captive arrested
him. “You needn’t split hairs as to how
I was caught. I couldn’t have got past this
tree anyhow. Fifteen miles has always been
my limit, even in training.”
Cliook rounded on him. Despite his
attempt to glower, his voice was hushed.
“Fifteen miles your limit in training, eh?
Well, you’ve come just on seventeen this
morning, let me tell you—and you don’t look
to be in training. Times too lean to keep in
nick? All!” He pounced on the dazed Chick,
and dragged the powdered and badged coat
from him. “Put that round your shoulders.”
he said, flinging it at the captive. “You’ll die
if you cool off like that. You pinched my
chickens —but, as you advised, I won’t split
hairs. You ran with a heart and a soul,
and as for me, I couldn’t have reached this
tree without that rest —couldn’t have got up,
if I hadn’t seen you stopped. See here. At
the foot of this hill you’ll find old Temple-
ton’s place. Tell him you licked me in a
seventeen-mile cross-country run this morn-
ing. He'll beg. you ,to work for him, just so’s
you’ll be within coo-ee of liis team.' I’ll run
against you under rules and regulations one
of these days.”
He turned and bundled Chick behind the
wheel. “Home!” lie snapped. The car
straightened out and roared down the hill.
The cantive struggled to his feet and moved
off stiffly for Templeton’s, with the light
glowing back into his eyes.
Oblivion.
When I behold the impotence of those
Whom Age has humbled in his ruthless
way,
And think how soon their little lives will
close,
And careless Youth their memory betray ;
And when I see them certain in their pride
That Youth could love them or could
understand,
While at their feet the slowly rising tide
Creeps up to wash them from Time’s
shifting sand ;
Then I remember that no thought of mine
Can ever salvage from Death’s lonely sea
The fairest body, or its form define,
When Time’s grey mists have fallen
silently;
And I would have those foolish people know
How Youth forgot such others, • long ago.
VICTOItIA.
C. C. MACNAMARA.
How Should I Seek?
The heart is like a prisonered,
A silent and unheeded bird
That dreams beyond its iron bars
Of hidden hills and songs unheard
And unattempted stars.
How should I seek the hidden hills?
From.what dark heights flow the cool rills?
Whence is tin* vision that I know
Of the great fields where no man tills,
And the untainted snow?
Whence to me, crabbed and confined,
Come thoughts as free as mountain wind?
So I am travelled in my close,
And in the darkness of my mind
Breaks the wild rose.
ENGLAND.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Bush Birds in Winter.
The wind and the trees give us songs with-
out words,
But the birds—the birds!
When halcyon calls,
The mountain walls
Fling his voice away;
But the valleys play
With the roundelay;
The wild notes go
To and fro, to and fro.
Tossed by the echoes everywhere,
Shattering the peace of the misty air.
Hush, oh, hush !
The song of the thrush!
Grey is liis coat,
But up from his throat
Bells a golden note;
Valley and hill
Are still, are still!
And the unseen wounds of the shattered
air
Are healed by peace that is everywhere.
A magpie sings:
His music brings
Amethyst
To the pallid mist;
O alchemist
In black and white,
Your delight, your delight
Is to pour out song on the sombre air
Till the wine of sound is everywhere.
The wind and the trees give us songs with-
out words',
But the birds —the birds !
victoria.
IRENE WILKINSON.
The Aliens.
Once, once a£ I woke from slumber
Or thought, it may be,, that I woke,
I heard or dreamt that I hearkened
The crying of alien folk.
Now sounding as up from a hollow,
And now as down from a : height,
To me it came through the stillness
And the pitch-black middle of night.
Alone in the starless silence,
When muted were wind and bird,
Strange voices and far, • faint voices,
I heard then, or dreamt I heard.
And this was their plaint, their burthen:
“From birth we are doomed to roam,
Ilousefolk, who for aye are homeless,
And for aye go seeking a home. -
“Though kith and kin of our fellows,
Ami moulded as they, we seem,.
Estranged from the world around us
We dwell in a realm of dream.
“Though bread we break at their tables
And toast them with ; wine-filled ; glass,
House-mates we are with them only,
And never home-mates, alas!
“Eyes set on a far horizon,
Born ever to roam are we,
Though the sun goes down to his setting
And the river flows to the sea.
“No tears do we shed with our neighbors,
No portion have we in their mirth.
For a Something has fashioned us alien
To the folk, the kind folk of the Earth.
“As alien, all-strange, to Earth’s kindred.
Their joys and their sorrows, we live,
For that we are thus wise fashioned,
No thanks to the high gods we give.”
Far-sounding, as up from a hollow,
Far-sounding, as down from a height,
Come voices, strange voices, faint voices,
From the pitch-black pit of the night.
N.S'.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Ask for
a '
*;'• * "a**
4*'
• VI
25
&
S,
<*>ls(U>
*>i
nrca/mns
ESTABLISHED 180 7,
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY.
D.tJi M"CALIUM IZS COIN BUR GH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please /forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
ẁ
A' e V
e °V
>'V 6
s V
w
.-• //
,•••


hrewd fellows, lawyers
a.
/
4
... always advising people
/>
to have things in....
p? *
i
AND
GUARANTEED PURE SCOTCH WHISKY,
Bottled only in Bond under Government Supervision.
Fine
d Scotch Whis
black
Awe
whitk
iULCHA9Miu
IONDOKj
oy AppomVmerv\
ftsfy/Zers to H M Y\v<?
* HR H /•/*. PRINCE.
111
°RODUCE Of SCOTLAND
scotch whisk;.
biack&whitP: ;;•
(•to.s'imo t»*ot “»*■' J « « J
SPECIAL BIEND ° f ' ' ' /W
’ E ° LD SCOTCH
° TC *“wh7mTy P'ST ,LLE
OIASCOW A LONDON' jp,
DISTILLERY MUIBEN 5 • 2$
ENr 5 . PINT 6
'' r ° “JOt'L r«t SOPt RV, ' 3 QHS
COMMONWEALTH cos t( ->
: E
