

fsp.
King*s Cross, Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W.
220 Bedrooms 220 Bathrooms
1H
H] Hi
mi HI
II I 111
mm
in
\i
\
1 |li 4 rr
'I m
rr
VM
m
m
i
Sfs
7%
m
-i
zzdw
ii
220 Bedrooms
220 Bathrooms
To be erected on the Company’s Property
at KING’S CROSS, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
Prospectus of issue of shares in the Hotel Mayfair, Limited, is available upon request to any of the following:-
MELBOURNE— ARTHUR PHILLIPS & JUST, Solicitors, Bank House, Bank Place.
E. PYKE & HOSKING, Chartered Accountants (Aust), 49 Elizabeth Street
H. W. BUCKLEY, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 360 Collins Street.
SYDNEY JOHN L. WILDES, Solicitor, Cathcart House, 1 1 Castlereagh Street.
J McKELLAR WHITE & McGRATH, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 11 Castlereagh Street.
MACDIARMID BEEMAN & CO., Public Accountants, 134 King Street.
P. R. HIGGINS, Barrister at Law, Phillip Street.
The Bulletin
OmA !Aso • $ *
Vol. 53.—N0. 2714.
Wednesday, February 17, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/~\UR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
II
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 332
AUSTRALIAN A
H. A. EVANS AND SON invite COLLEC-
LECTORS OF AUSTRALIAN LITERA-
TURE to write for their lists. Many
rare and scarce works at reasonable
prices. La Perouse, Hawksworth, Tas-
man, Oxley,, Grey, Sturt, Rusden’ Eyre,
Barrington, dtc. Sweet’s “Flora Austral-
asica.”
BIRDS. —CabipbeH’s Nests and Eggs ;
Buller’s Birds of N.Z.; What Bird
Is That?—l2/6.
KIA-ORA COO-EE.—Complete set of
10 numbers, autographed, with origi-
nal MS., etc. Very scarce.
FIELD SPORTS OF N.S.W.—With 10
aquatints, dedicated to Admiral Bligh,
1813. Rare.
THE SQUATTER’S DIRECTORY,
Road Guide, and Key to Squatting
Map of Victoria, 1865, with folding
map. Scarce—lo/6.
LYSISTRATA. —Jack and Norman
Lindsay. Fanfrolien Press, limited to
40 copies.
POETRY.—First editions of Old Bush
Songs; Kendall’s Leaves from Aust.
Forests; Dennis’s Backblock Ballads
—7/6. Later editions of Brady, Daley,
Dennis. Paterson, Church, Century of
Australian Song, etc. —3/6 per vol.
SPECIAL PURCHASE—New Books at
Big Reductions. History, Sociology,
Biography, Theology, etc.
Lists available.
The Dromana Library of the late Mr.
Justice Higgins now on sale.
H. A. EVANS & SON
358 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
tlw Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
tbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Anstralian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFEE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
' *
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” ia re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1377.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F, L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander/’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
49.3-05 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
<v
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier”
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty.
73-75 Paterson Street
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Typical Thrillers
All the world loves a good thriller. Edgar
Wallace has a public which ranges, intel-
lectually, from ex-Prime Minister Baldwin,
who is said to read some such work as
“The Squeajcer” on every railway journey,
to juveniles and adults whose mental age
is 15, or less. Yet there is a sameness about
thrillers suggestive of the high-powered cars
which tear through the pages of so many
of them. Those of British origin, which,
by fairly general consent, are the best that
are now being turned out by any of the
nations, may be classified roughly under
three heads.
The Country House
It has very little movement. The author
rarely bothers to specify the makes of his
cars, which are only used, as a rule, to take
quests, police and so on to and from the
station. The prospective corpse is alive
when first encountered, but apprehensive.
The aim is to convey a brooding atmosphere
of terror, after the fashion of Le Fanu’s
“Uncle Silas,” and to cast suspicion op as
many innocent characters as possible. The
police get on the wrong track, and the
assassin turns out to be one of the last the
reader would have expected. Sudden Death,
by Freeman Wills Crofts (Collins; 7s. 6d.),
follows this formula. When Anne Day
arrives, as housekeeper, at Frayle it doesn’t
take her long to realise that something is
gravely amiss. Mr. and Mrs. Grinsmead
never speak to each other, and they have
separate rooms. Mrs. Grinsmead (“thin and
unhealthily pallid, languid and evidently
wanting in grip”). locks herself in every
night with a patent bolt which she works
from her bed. Why? Soon Anne makes a
perturbing discovery; Mr. Grinsmead and
pretty Mrs. Holt-Lancing are desperately
in love. It appears, next, that Mrs. Grins-
mead knows, and is afraid of being poisoned.
Mr. Grinsmead offers her a bottle of aspirins
for her mysterious ailment.
As he did -so Anne happened to catch sight of
his wife’s face. It bore a dreadful expression, an
expression of fear and horror. She looked as if
she had seen something in the distance beyond the
party, though what it could have been Anne could
not imagine.
Yet in the end the invalid dies by gas
poisoning. That Mr. Grinsmead did it no one
has any doubt. But how did he get the gas
into the room? Poor Anne has hardly dis-
covered the devilish device when she is faced
with a fresh horror. A shot is heard; Mr.
Grinsmead’s locked door is forced, and he is
found dead with a bullet in his forehead.
Suicide? Well, get the book and follow
the astute but by no means far-fetched
reasoning by which Inspector French of
the Yard worked out exactly what did
happen. Sudden Death is worth reading
both for the story, which is exciting, and
for its interesting pictures of life in the
circle of an English country solicitor.
The Cosmopolitan
This kind of romance may be termed the
higher mathematics of fiction. It can be
attacked without a qualm by nervous sub-
jects at midnight in lonely places since,
apart from the body, which materialises
early, it is no eerier than an algebraical
problem. Christopher Bush’s Dead Man’s
Music (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) is an example.
Travers is sauntering along in his Isotta
near the village of Pawlton Ferris when he
nearly collides with a large blue tourer
containing his friend Inspector Wharton.
Shortly afterwards they are examining the
remains.
He was swinging from a short length of stout
cord attached to a hook in a beam. His height
would be less than five foot six; his age, judging
by the hair and general appearance, somewhere about
sixty.
Who was he? Had he hanged himself or
had someone hanged him? Or had he been
murdered and strung Up afterwards? And
why was he wearing, not merely a disguise,
but a disguise of a disguise? What was the
explanation of his ill-fitting suit? What
impelled Claud Rook to write to Travers —
Claud Rook, composer of “The Seven
Cypresses” (Valcetto), which'Travers tried
over on a piano, and found to be a mean-
ingless jumble of notes? What was the
connection between Claud Rook and Csesare
Rossi, who lived at Valcetto, in Italy, in a
villa with seven cypresses? And how did
Fascism come into it? Was Ross, of the
Consolidated Sardinian Investment Cor-
poration, Rossi or Rook, and who killed
which and why? Also, what was the pur-
pose of the tone poem, and why was the
money hidden in the piano legs? These
and many more
seemingly unre-
lated problems are
hurled at the
reader in quick
succession. It is
unsafe to let the
attention wander for a moment. To over-
look the intrusion of some entirely new char-
acter, with previously unheard-of affiliations,
may create a situation analogous to that
which confronted Sir Isaac Newton when the
dog ate his MSS.; another wet towel may
have to be applied to the brow, as a prelude
to a re-examination of the whole business. No
one—not even a Prime Minister of the
most penetrating intelligence—could arrive
at a solution by the light of reason, but
by the time Travers, Wharton and their
underlings have finished investigating and
arguing day begins to dawn, so to speak.
Mr. Bush has a picturesque style, as well
as a clear head, and his descriptions of the
Continent are attractive.
The Anglo-American
This is easy to read, in a sense. It can
be picked up or laid down at any time with-
out damage to the continuity. Things don’t
happen because they must, but because' it
suits the writer’s purpose for them to
happen, and much reliance is placed on
coincidence. The Americans, who are
usually Chicago gangsters and whose lingo
never sounds quite right (like English dia-
logue in American books), are in England
in quest of papers or revenge. An aristo-
cratic young man, with unlimited time and
money on his hands, comes into conflict
with them, and he and his wealthy, care-
free and casual, yet dauntless and formid-
ably efficient young friends see that justice
is done without reference to the police.
Literature of the sort probably has a lot
to do with the birth of New Guards, and
the like. Its appeal is to those who regard
a loyal Briton as the gamest work of God.
The Sealed Envelope, by Ben Bolt (Ward
Locke; 7s. 6d.), would never have been
written if the Hon. Gregory Melcombe
hadn’t let the Alvis out one night, and been
stopped by a strand of wire across the road.
He is hurt, but he closes his eyes and waits,
as footsteps approach.
A man laughed harshly, and with the unmistak-
able accent of the United States exclaimed: “We
sure snared the wrong bird!”
“But who is the guy?’’ inquired a second voice.
“Gregory Melcombe”
“An’ who the brimstone is”
“Search me. There’s an insurance certificate in
the car with the name inscribed. Guess this is the
owner of the moniker.”
“Means that Linky’s slipped by us, I guess.”
Gregory is left for dead (one of the Ameri-
cans sling-shots him), is taken in by the
occupant of a near-by house (another
American), and at 3 a.m. discovers a girl
burgling a bureau. Later, he and the girl
find the usual corpse, and, later still, he,
Teddy Hamilton and Lord Bobby Medway
come across the girl, Linky’s pursuers, and
(mirabile dictu!) Linky himself in an ex-
clusive London Might club. The papers,
by imbecile carelessness on the part of- the
Yanks, are in a pocket of the coat Gregory
was wearing when he got back to his flat.
A hunt for them begins, which takes the
right-thinking young Britons and their
scoundrelly adversaries to various parts of
the West End, and on to Bristol, Dulverton,
Dunster and other parts of Devon and
Somerset which Mr. Bolt knows well, with
revolvers being fired and strong men being
knocked unconscious right and left, and the
Hon. Gregory falling more and more
deeply in love with the girl—for the Anglo-
American, unlike its rivals, always finds
time for the gentle passion. Normal fives
are without glamor or excitement for long
periods, and normal skulls sustain concus-
sions or fractures when sling-shotted by
willing hands; but Mr. Bolt’s Englishmen
are different. Things are never flat, stale
or unprofitable with them, and their skulls
astound Chicago:—
The American listened to Melcombe’s story with
growing wonder.
“Mean to say you’ve been counted out tw'ice since
yon drove through them gates?”
“You’ve got it right.”
“Must have the constitution of a buffalo!”
The Sealed. Envelope has the speed of a
Hollywood crime film, and its racy, stac-
cato dialogue might with few alterations
be transferred to the talkie which if will
probably be made into. This kind of thriller
is behind the others in artistry, but it is said
to be far ahead of them in popular appeal.
RED PAGE.
The Boissy Saga
Helen Simpson’s Boomerang (Heinemann:
Robertson and Mullens; Bs. 6d.) is an out-
standing achievement in several directions.
It is the most vital, spacious and knowledge-
able novel that has been written by an Aus-
tralian about Australians, and it contains
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


1 TRUTH IN ADVERTISING."—The Highest Ideal
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony
((
The People's Sale ’
at
‘The Senior Store”
G£ N
1
: A
N £
- 1
&K-.
Increasing the
Effective Valu
of Money
SILKS
Secure a dress length
from these Sale
Specials at Bargain-
ised Prices.
é
4/11 C.de Chine
at 2/11* yd.
29in. New Broad-striped Crepe
de Chines. Many delightful
designs to choose from.
Price 4/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 2/11 \
4/1 1 Nat. Shantung
now 2/6 yd.
Buy Natural Knopp Shantung
at this reduced price and you
will buy well. 33in. wide.
Price 4/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 2/6
7/11 Georgettes
for 4/11 yd.
This is surely Sydney’s lowest-
quality price. Beautiful
Printed Georgettes drastically
reduced. Double-width mat-
erial. Price 7/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 4/11
5/11 Floral Melba Ninon at
Select a frock-length from this range
of beautiful Floral Melba Ninons. In
double width and reduced to half price.
2/11
A line which it is impossible to repeat. Price ... 5/11
Anthony Horderns* Sale Price 2/111
Quality Nat. Shantung
Here’s a Natural Shantung reduction that
will doubly claim your attention. It’s our
genuine 1 /9i weight, and is 33in. .wide.
11-
Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
1/9*
1/-
7/11 Col. Foulard
now 3/11 yd.
Outstanding bargain for those
who demand Pure Silk
Fabrics. During last days of
Sale we make this Colored
Silk Foulard available in full
color range. Price ... 7/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 3/11
6/1 1 Crepe Satins
at 4/8 yd.
This reliable-quality, ever-
popular Crepe Satin in all
becoming shades, including
Black and Navy. Double
width. Price 6/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 4/8
4/1 1 Velvet 2/6
Plan ahead! Buy your stocks
of Black Millinery Velvet now,
for you’ll pay higher for it
later on, in the coming autumn
and winter seasons!
Price 4/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 2/6
* yf
w.\
$72
7"
( Department, First Floor. We pay carriage.)
When sensible economy is a necessity, and careful buying is imperative,
Anthony Horderns’ aid the thrifty shopper by offering these exceptional
Manchester values and special Silk savings, which are supreme both in
quality and in price.
MANCHESTER
Take advantage of these astound-
ing quality-manchester reduc-
tions. Secure your requirements
at Anthony Horderns’ Genuine
Sale Values!
12/3 Sheets at
“H ordura" Regd.
Sheets. These, are obtain-
able only at Anthony
106
Horderns’, and carry their absolute
guarantee. Plain and Twill, weave.
Sizes, ins., 54 x 90 64 x. 90 72 x 100
Prices, pr., 12/3 14/9 17/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices,
pair . . 10/6 13/3 15/11
Sizes, ins. .. . 80x100 90 xlOB
Prices, pr. .. . 20/9 25/6
Sale Price, pr., 18/6 22/6
2/4 Sheeting at
A real bargain for early
shoppers! 100 pieces
White Sheeting. Plain
1/9
an.d Twill weave. Width,
Price, yard
Anthony Horderns* Sale Price,
yard 1/9
54in.
... 2/4
MAIL YOUR ORDER
2/11 Twill Sheeting now 2/1 yd.
500 yards only White Heavyweight Twill Sheeting. Width, 54in. A reliable-wearing
quality. Buy now and save. Price, yard 2/1 I
Anthony Horderns’. Sale Price,, yard 2/1
DAMASKS
4/9 Merc. Damask
Reliable-quality . Mercerised
Damask. In a large range of
modern designs. Width,
2/9
67in. Price, yard 4/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, yd., 2/9
7/3 Damask Cloths
Heavyweight Mercerised
Damask Cloths. Attrac-
tive and neat designs.
4/11
Size, 54in. x 54in. Price ...... 7/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 4/11
3/1 li Serviettes now
2000 dozen Mercerised
Damask Serviettes. In
assorted designs. Splendid
wearing quality.
Sizes, ins.—
3/3
■ i 20 x2O 20 x2O 23 x 23 23 x 23
3/11 4/3 5/3 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
half-dozen—
-3/3 3/6 4/51 S/6
22/6 Damask Cloths
1613
Irish Linen Damask Cloths. Assorted
designs. Sizes .... 70 x7O 70 xBB
Prices 22/6 28/6
Anthdny Horderns’
Sale Prices ..... 16/3 19/11
TOWELS
1/3 Turkish Towels
now 1/- ea.
Unbleached Turkish Towels. Fawn
ground, Red or Blue stripes. Size, 1 Bin.
x 36in. Price 1/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . 1/-
2/11 Turk. Towels at
Unbleached Turkish Towels.
Cream grounds, with an
assortment of 5 designs to
2/6
select from. Size, 24in. x 48in.
Price .... 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . 2/6
2/11 "Osman” Towels
now 2/3 ea.
White Turkish Towels. Osman
manufacture. Useful size, 22in. x 44in.
Price . 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . 2/3
1/9 Hemstitched Pillow Cases at 1
Hemstitched Pillow Cases. Taped. Size, 18in. x 28in. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
Housewife! Size, 1 9in. x 29in. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
(Manchester, First Floor. We pay carnage.)
1 3 ea.
l/9
l/3
..... 1/11
l/8
•Phone: M 2401
| Pay and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN 8C SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ê


TURNS thi CORNER
Now that calamity howlers have made themselves hoarse, the
voice of optimism, which is the true voice of Australia, can
make itself heard.
J
Mrwto
„ Tooh
ivo N f yausxr
Tooheys, Ltd., in their policy, products and pub-
licity, reflect faith in this glorious country and,
incidentally, provide many of the “corners” into
which Australians turn.
These hotels, in their turn, provide a drink that fosters
optimism and goodfellowship—■
TOOHEY/^
*****
<nk
AEW LIGUT LAGER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH TUE YELLOW LABEL
Just malt, hops, sugar and pure crystal water—
but what a drink!
THE HEALTH FOOD OF THE NATIONS


RP
*3
mm
1
r;
' B
H
-~
r* wj
HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
The Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp” (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable from all hotels and licensed
stores specialising in the distribution
of the higher grades of wines.
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA!
the best interpretation of “the Catholic
mentality” that has appeared in any modem
work of fiction. Most novelists who use
the Roman Catholic Church as a . theme,
or sub-theme, propagand for it, like Belloc,
or against it, like Anatole I ranee. Miss
Simpson has a judicial mind. It is impos-
sible to say whether her heroine, Lady
Frome, who was Clotilde Boissy, of Wol-
londoola, is a “practising” or a “lapsed
Catholic,” or an agnostic; yet her religion
is never far from her thoughts, and it colois
her life from childhood to middle age. It
is her only real patriotism. She has no
love for Australia, where she was bom and
educated, or for France or Ireland the
countries from which her grandfathers came.
She loves the part of England which con-
tains her husband’s estate —loves it more
than she does him —but has no enthusiasms
about England the nation. She would be
as out of place in an Empire League as in
an Orange Lodge. Her picaresque story
covers 125 years of life in France, the West
Indies, Australia and England, and ends in
Elanders during the World War. She be-
gins with an eighteenth-century ancestor,
who was Governor of Corazon. His career
is sfviftly, wittily, sketched from his strange
marriage in England to the submerging of
his island and its 40,000 inhabitants, includ-
ing himself, by a tidal wave. His son
Gustave-Felicite escaped, having set sail lor
the Court of Louis XVIII. before the catas-
trophe. By 1837 Gustave-Felicite’s property
in France has been confiscated, and he has
been exiled, so he emigrated to Australia.
He pulled a string or two, all that was left in
the way of influence, and there fluttered down into
his'pocket a grant of 5000 acres in New South Wales.
The parts of the book which deal with
Australia consist of half-remembered hap-
penings of the writer’s youth—the Liguori
case; an ecclesiastical row which convulsed
old-time Goulburn, and so on—dovetailed
ingeniously into the local history of the
Boissy family. The Boissy men are now
graziers, solicitors, Judges. Clotilde goes
to her first Government House dance in
1894, gets mixed up with Martina Fields
(who was rushed by Potts Point and turned
out to be a white-slaver), and is packed off
in disgrace to England. The Earl of
Frome’s only son joins her ship at Colombo,
and she marries him after the death of his
father. She sees Sydney next when he is
sent to Australia as Governor-General. One
of her uncles is the State Chief Justice,
and his daughter Barbe (“known in religion
as. Sister Maiy Barbara”) escapes from the
convent of which her Aunt Philomena is
Reverend Mother. The situation is saved
by Lady Frome’s courageous intervention;
she goes into the witness-box and proves
the nun’s case—that Sister Mary is mad.
It is impossible to do justice to the wit,
wisdom and epic scope of this fine book in
a necessarily short review. There are half
a dozen novel-subjects in its 500 pages —
the story of Grandfather Boissy, who went
back to fight against Prussia for the France
that had cast him out; the story of Jack
Boissy, who went treasure-fishing over
Corazon, saw a sacrilegious companion de-
stroyed by a bull at San Miguel in honor
of the Virgin of the Assumption, and got
back to Australia in the year The Quack
won the Melbourne Cup; the story of
Clotilde’s love affair with an A.I.F. doctor
in Flanders. The dialogue catches the right
intonation and idiom with equal sureness
whether the character is a French bishop, a
blasphemous British seaman or an Austra-
lian Backblocker. Who that has heard a
nun speak can miss the truth of Lady
Frome’s interview with her Aunt Philo-
mena?
“Well, well; and now tell me”—a searching glance
—“you’re friends with Our Lord, aren’t you,
Clotilde?”
“Yes, Mother,” I said, like the child she saw in
me. She meant did 1 perform my duties as a
Catholic.
“That’s right, that is all that matters,” said she,
holding my hand fast. “You’ll pay Him a little
visit when you’ve had your dinner. Now I want to
hear everything about you. No children?” I shook
my head. “Poor child, that’s sad, and for your
husband, too, with his great name. But it wasn’t
to be; so you must do your mothering some other
way. You know, our orphanage”——-
“Aunt,” I said, “you’re going to beg.”
“Dear me,” said she with a comical twist of her
eyebrows, “so I was! Tt’s one of those habits
that takes a hold; like whisky. I can’t open my
mouth now to God or man without some sort of a
petition popping out of it. It’s taken ten years
hard begging to raise these walls”
A great performance. The only quarrels
this critic has with it are the meaningless
title, with its tricky justification in the last
few lines, and the differing styles, which
produce a disconcerting impression that the
book was written by more than one hand.
Miss, Simpson seems to have reached
maturity as a novelist without deciding
whether irony or straight nan-ative is her
line.
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
A do luxe edition of Pictorial Book-plates:
Their Origin and Use in Australia lias been
printed by the Beacon Press at a guinea a
copy for P. Neville Barnett, of the Ex
Libris Society. As a production—in the
quality of the printing and binding and in
its general format —it would be a credit to
any overseas publishing house. There are
chapters on the birth of book-plates, and
then we reach the genesis of the cult in
Australia. John Lane Mullins was the
pioneer, it appears, and one of the first
designers was “a young artist in Melbourne
of the name of Norman Lindsay.” Two
characteristic efforts by Lindsay are repro-
duced, as also are some quaint and beautiful
work by D. H. Souter, Sydney Ure Smith,
Norman Carter and Phil May and scores of
book-plates ancient and modern. I here is
a comprehensive index.
Old Coaching Days, by E. M. Lovell-Smith
(Lovell-Smith and Venner; 5s. 6d.), begins
with an account of the rise of Cobb and Co.
in Dunedin (ALL.). In Victoria’s Roaring
’Fifties four Yanks, led by Freeman Cobb,
of Massachusetts, started the “American
Telegraph Line of Coaches” between Mel-
bourne and the Bendigo diggings. In the
early ’sixties, when Victoria was suffering
from a gold slump, the “Telegraph Line
crossed the Tasman and began a service
between Dunedin and Gabriel’s Gully, an
El Dorado of the period. For nearly 20
years the coaching business was a money-
maker in the Shaky Isles, and its downfall
only began when the railways started to cut
into its mail-carrying monopoly. As a
matter of fact, M.L. coaching continued in a
big way well into the present century, its
main support being tourists. Then the
motor-car gave it its death-blow. This
interesting book, which has a list of famous
old-time whips, and many drawings and
photographs, carries the history of the busi-
ness only as far as 1880.
James Devaney’s Earth Kindred (Frank
Wilmot; Os.) contains 20 nature poems,
most of which have appeared in local
periodicals. H'e versifies easily, and loves
all God’s creatures, and more , particularly
birds. There is an allocution to a little blue
wren which deserves to be included in any
Australian ornithology for its observation
and intensity of feeling. But Devaney has
the defects of his pleasant qualities, namely,
careless writing and a tendency to prattle.
A Purim-nighfs Dream, by Izak Goller
(Ghetto Press; 5s. 6d.), is a fantasy for
Jewish children. David and Daniel are
asleep in their cot when the Angel of
Dreams enters drunk :—
To-day is Purim—
To-morrow it ain’t.
Give me a farthing
Or else I faint.
The story of Esther, Queen of the Medes and
Persians, is told in half-English, half-Yid-
dish doggerel of the above description, and
the play ends with the angel gone and the
children dreamlessly asleep. A mixture of
farce, melodrama and poetry with many
effective illustrations.
Muriel Hine’s Wild Rye (John Lane;
7s. 6d.) is a plaintive taie of the difficul-
ties young people had to face in an ..English
midland town during the narrow ’nineties.
Poor Jenny loves Thad, who has been “wild,”
and when her people insist on a year's en-
gagement and he points out how hard celi-
bacy is on a man she yields :—
There could only be one end to it with a nature
like Jenny’s, giving, giving.... In the “deer’s
parlor’’ she let him take her, in mortal fear for
body and soul, without passion, without pleasure, a
sacrifice in essence as pure as that of a mother for
her child.
Thad, who is a weakling, goes off with a
married woman and Jenny is left to her
mostly unpleasant relations. It’s a sad
little bit of life, and the writer knows her
people and period intimately.
And a Little Verse
THE PLATITUDE.
Offspring of dulness, child of convention,
Friend of Hiatus and filling his gaps;
Not guilty of satire or double intention,
Smacking of dignified knowledge—perhaps!
Seemly in attitude, boundless in latitude,
Invited, unbidden, yet welcome sweet Plati-
tude,
Neatly dodging the logical traps.
Trusty companion and vade mecum
Of " newspaper editors (yea, and their
scribes),
Run dry of ideas when most they would
seek ’em,
Who’d give no offence to the manifold
tribes
Of reader, subscriber and advertiser!
Are the first to be blamed if the latter, no
wiser,
Greedily swallow the smooth-worded bribes?
Guide of all governors, mayors and chair-
men,
Whose tongues on occasion must warily
wag
To partisans, critics and doubtfully-fair men
And even to school-kids saluting the flag:
“Auspicious occasion” “Expressions of
loyalty”
“Welcome assurances”.... ‘Sent on to
royalty”....
“Advance Australia!”.... Well, thats a
fair gag.
Slave of the well-equipped legislator,
Whose strong suits are handshakes, in-
visible soap
And cliches that mark the forensic third-
Whose words are of corafort, vague pro-
mise and hope:
“Return of prosperity” “Untold re-
sources”....
“Rounding the corner” “Great natural
forces”....
“The dead past is dead”.... Of such is
the dope.
Lexicon bright of the Solons and Shallows,
Whose wisdom exudes from the legal
morass;
As sure as to-morrow the platitude hallows
And rounds off each judgment and sen-
tence they pass:
“With very great deference” “Law’s
great tradition”
“The fountains of justice” “The court’s
sacred mission”
Is a judge just a bluffer, or law just a
“hass”?
Trained hound of confident parson and
preacher
Steering our steps to the hard, narrow
track.
And of each high or humble professor and
teacher
Talking to people who can’t answer
back —
Let these in gratitude add this Beatitude
To those known of old: O, blessed be Plati-
tude
(Endorsed by a poet who uses his whack).
S.A.
BILL O’C.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stampel Nam
and address must appear on the MS. Mo liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MTP.: Just babble A. J.: Try a church
magazine... . E.V.C.: Rough work and a venerable
conclusion.... Hazel D.: Your golden-throated
chorister chanted his evening prayer on the edge of
the basket, then nestled comfortably... .A.8.C.: Bit
precious.... One of ’Em: Get it into 15 lines—can
easily be done .J.M.8.: Last verse:—
And, now my boy,
You’ll find great joy
To fish on the Lane Cove River
And to ask of Him
For a shoal of brim
The great Almighty Giver.
Thank Heaven you wanted brim. Dunno what you’d
have done if you’d been set on whiting... .E.M.G.:
If you care to knock out the repetitive lines, we will
reconsider it. Once at the beginning and once at
the end is enough.... Alcazar: Too vague. .. .H.A.:
Get a better vocabulary. In 14 lines you use
“beauty” four times —and “lovely beauty” once....
P.T.: Dream ending is a hackneyed trick. .. .G.W.C.:
He is not an entertaining liar.... J.S.: Better told
it ought to appeal to a woman’s paper... .D.W.:
It took the count... .G.S.McA.: No new thought
or phrase... .H.J.: Just a waste of time... .W.A.8.:
Neat rhyming for the family circle... .11.T.8.: You
can keep her... .Tilja: No good for “Aboriginali-
ties”; but if ever we start an “Unoriginalities”
page we’ll whistle... .R.W.T.: We print two lines:
Into the valley and down ’neath the mountains’ frown
Through a forest of blue-gum we have sweating come.
And suggest two more:—
And our corns growing worse soon make us curse,
While our boots have worn holes in our socks’ heels
and soles.
A.G.S.: Treatment a little harsh for the type
of story... .F.W.L.: Not keen on the soft-boiled love
yarn.... A.N.M.: Has no sparkle... .C.F.J.: Has
been written about so often that we know
every blessed rock and blade of grass in the
place... .T.N.: Not what we want... .J. 5.8,:
Heavy... . W.R.P.: You write too much. Reduce
quantity and try to improve quality... .R.L.M.C.:
Don’t weep so profusely... .R.H.: Was interesting
until they boarded the ferry J.E.G.: Dreadful.
. ...J.R.P.: Don’t print that class of material....
J.C.: There’s not enough story in it....M.A.: Hope-
less. .. .H.R.W.: No space for reminiscences....
E.L.: Not worth all that space W.E.8.:
Another miss .A.L.P.: Falls short, but not much.
. ...J.F.L.: Reb just missed... .F.E.: Overlong and
humor forced R.H.: Up in the clouds....
P.A.M.: It leads to nothing striking... .L.A.S.:
Would be acceptable if we had lots more r00m....
R.J.M.: Parodies are cheap amusement, as a rule.
Yours isn’t the exception., .. Bellerive: Wordsworth
might have written this, but he didn’t:—
To earn an honest living
A truck with fruit I’d fill,
And hawk my way through Carlton,
As far as Princes Hill.
Ripe apricots and peaches
Of the summer time,
And Bendigo tomatoes,
Tasty, firm and prime.
L.L.: “First Time Out” went out first ba11....
H.S.: Afraid the ink was wasted. .. .Willow: No sap
in it. And Sing-Sing is a long way off our beat....
D.R.M.: N 0.... S.L.R.: You ask us to swallow too
much.... J.F.: You haven’t the knack of spinning
a yarn.... R.W.J.: Condensed and told more briskly
it might fill an odd corner G.Q* Couldn’t admit
Grandpa B. W.: Daily-paper stuff M.A.R.:
Business is business. That’s why it was cast 0ut....
L.C.N.H. : Quality; but a bit bookish R.W.8.:
Leaves us quite c01d.... John S.: Platitudes are still
platitudes, even though they rhyme beautifully....
D.M.: Allegorical, eh?: —
The Lang Plan it was suffering from the bile,
And the bile it troubled it sorely;
So Lang he gave it salts
And it done an Irish waltz
And bolted out of N.S.W. that morning.
....Reg B.: Sad doggerel.... Marie P.: Labored
humor in shockingly bad rhyme J.R.R.: Sounds
like the bray of a demented jackass... .W.8.N.:
These raspberries of yours set our teeth on edge....
Pat: A paper filled with that sort of stuff would
never see a second issue... .M.8.H.: A hopeless
“Dawn”... .Toowong: Contributions to those columns
must be reduced to 300 words or less... .A.P.: Un-
distinguished... .William C.: “Search” was wasted
—only one place to look for it....1nc0: Is it a
story or an abattoir ?.... Eve: Nothing wrong with
thb technique ; but such a weary old hash A.G.M.:
Cheer up. Omar needed only four things to make
a paradise, and you’ve got the book, anyway....
R.W.A.: Pity the work was given to so threadbare
a thought M.A.R.: Neat, but a featherweight....
W.E.H.: Too wide a question. “Community co-
operation” might mean any of a thousand things.
. ...A.R.: Ends in the air J.A.8.: Squabble
between Jay Pays is clumsily handled... .M.S.:
Jimmy was a washout... .D.P.: “Tripescript” it is.
. ...E.J.D.: For a moment we thought Nat Gould
had returned to life.... J. 5.8.: A bit better, but
still not what we want... .H.M.M.: We’ve read scores
of depression tales with the same ending... .C. 8.:
Exceeds space limit... .W.J.N.: A trivial incident.
. ...C.K.: Send something with a plot in it....
J.C.0.5.: There are two or three recognised prac-
titioners in Australia specialising in plastic surgery.
Ask the nearest doctor... .L.G.: Berrimb'Hah,
kingfisher; Birriebongie, cormorant; Wanderriby,
ibis... .T.J.D.: The written consent of the girl’s
parents should have been produced to the minister
or registrar. Possibly she represented herself as of
age. You cannot get the marriage annulled....
McK.: Send him a letter care of the newspaper to
which he contributes. .. .X.P.: Cases have occurred,
but they are very rare. Quadruplets were born to
an Australian mother in 1930 —“at a first confine-
ment,” the vigilant Giblin ascertained.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.: Crude, except for the figure that’s lifted
from an American paper... .S.C.: Good joke but
sketch is hopeless C.W. J.H.: Tame wheeze, and
you overcrowd your drawings... .J.J.V.: Immature
as yet... .S.P.C.: You overvalue it J.D.: An old
joke... .8.G.: Why have you dressed Dave like a
Canadian lumberjack ?.... S.T.: It was thought a
good joke when they were building the overland
telegraph line. .. .W.J.M.: Leason invented that one
years ag0....R.5.: Underdone drawing, overdone
jest.


e
è
/ '
m
Wm
■
\
m
i
wm
J '“N
4 j-
a
$r
JEff*
■
■■ ■
I* , 1 ; XJS2!
w"~ : '■ ■
* )B£ »«' '■ ::
$&
2B£:: v;\
||i|
MS
■I
:£§§
< >Sss*r
r -
“
' ': 55, ■ % ’ % :%&1F • •; * *
jppfl ~■■•. -
-
.
BJj^***^
-
£.7.. il. ,
■
;T;'! M,..'
,»fc
1 MS!
■
.
MHi
f !
:
■
wW '
' 4 ■ 'v I!
, ,£1
I ■
ill!
’ S l ?fpf||p|
1 M |g
,
~5 ssasSSj^
»****’ . * * * ■ - »“*“ ( , . -
0


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2714.
February 17, 1932.
PARTING BY PROXY.
JOHN THOMAS MICAWBER: “Thank God that’, paid!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 Oeorge Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 11, Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C. 2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oe.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE FARMER AND THE
TARIFF.
Dear Bulletin, —Your article “Must Our Tariff
Go?’’ (B. 20/l/’32) interests me very much, as I
am a farmer. As you say, the value of exports
(primary produce) fell from 100 to 68.7 between
1927 and 1930. That is, the primary producer who
exported found his income less by one-third in the
latter year. He wasn’t making a fortune before
the fall; how is he getting on now ? Apparently it
doesn’t matter as long as he can continue to export
enough to make available in London a sufficient
sum to avoid default, as he has done in 1930 and
1931. The question is, can he go on finding the
only real money to keep the nation off the rocks?
Another question—and he is asking it every day
—is, Why should he? Why should a fraction of
the people (the primary producers) pay the debts
of the whole lot ?
In plain English, the other industries are poling
on the primary producer, and he knows it. To my
mind it is plain that, if the secondary industries,
bolstered by embargoes and fenced with rising tariff
walls, are not able or willing to export their goods
the same as we the primary producers are forced
to do without any such aids, and so do something
to bring real money into the country, there will be a
crash, and nothing can prevent it. Do the secondary
industries expect the country to be shut up for
ever, with no competition, and to exploit the
people at any old price and quality they like? That
is what is going on. If, as at present, the farmer
is expected to pay your oversea charges—and there
is no getting away from it that he is the only one
doing so—then you have got to meet him on the
tariff—either that, or knock away the last prop
you’ve got between you and insolvency. There is
no choice. You cannot bluff him that he isn't
paying more than he should. You cannot bluff him ;
but you can overload him, and you are doing it.
As soon as the farmer ceases to export, and pro-
duces enough for the home market only—as the
secondary industries are doing—the house of cards
will fall. Perhaps it will take something of the
sort to bring us to our senses.—Yours, P. Milne.
Two doctors were in the Bankruptcy Court
lately. One explained that he was unmar-
ried and had found it a great handicap;
the other that he was married and had
been unable to make ends meet in conse-
quence. The farmers are something like
that. In Britain they have been suffering
a bad time under Freetrade, so want Pro-
tection; in Australia they have been suffer-
ing a bad time under Protection, so some
of them want Freetrade. The fact is they
would be having a bad time whatever fiscal
policy they lived under. And it is because
of this—because the primaiy industries are
poor industries all the world over, and
especially the industry of wheat-growing—
that Australia must be provided with other
industries if it is ever to be anything but
a poor country, with a mere handful of
people.
Admittedly the position of our primary
industries is difficult. To find a sale for the
bulk of their products in most seasons they
must go to the markets of the world; and,
so far as wheat is concerned, this means
that they must compete with some coun-
tries which have low-priced labor and with
other countries better situated geographi-
cally. Wheat and most other farm pro-
ducts are also greatly over-supplied or
under-consumed: for practical purposes it
does not matter which; all that matters Is
that there are vast quantities of uncon-
sumed grain, etc., left over from past seasons.
In these circumstances almost every great
wheat-exporting country has been calling
upon its growers to grow less. Unfortu-
nately it was not possible for Australia to
join in that call. It had borrowed more
abroad, in proportion to its population, than
any other country in the world, and it had
huge debt charges to meet. These charges
it could only pay with the surplus of its
exports over its imports. But, again un-
fortunately, its imports were exceptionally
large, because it had for very many years
given almost undivided attention to pri-
mary industries, to the neglect, of manufac-
turing industries. Hence, although it cut
down its imports by two-thirds by an effort
unprecedented in its history and probably
without precedent anywhere, it is still
barely able to balance its trade even in two
extra-good seasons.
The position is just the same in Britain,
with variations to suit the different sets
of conditions. Britain, dependent on its
exports of manufactured goods, found the
foreign markets so unfavorable that it
could not sell enough to pay its foreign bills,
chiefly for foodstuffs and raw materials:
Australia, dependent on its exports of raw
materials, found the foreign markets so
unfavorable that it could not sell enough
to pay its foreign bills, chiefly for manufac-
tured goods. We know what has happened
in Britain. As the very eminent Sir
Josiah Stamp declared the other day,
“although as an economist he was a strong
Freetrader, from the present monetary view-
point he recognised that a definite artifi-
cial check must be put on our vast volume
of imports.” The same monetary viewpoint
is supreme in Australia. If the farmer
could tell us how we are going to pay for
more imports, it might be worth while
considering the slaughter of our tariff. But
if the slaughter of a single line is going to
mean extra imports without an absolutely
certain corresponding increase of exports in
all seasons, good and bad, then the slaughter
simply means default and disaster.
But so far as Australia is concerned there
is more than the monetary viewpoint, over-
whelmingly important though that is at
the moment. We are faced with the ques-
tion whether it is better -for the primary
producer to build up for his goods a home
market which we can protect, and for his
necessities a home market which we can
more or less control, or to be wholly
dependent upon foreign markets over which
we can exercise no control whatever. He
tells us that to-day he is crushed by the
prices he has to pay for the things he must
buy. But what happened in other days?
Except for an occasional and short-lived
and always halting Protectionist tariff, N. S.
Wales was the sturdy Freetrader among
the colonies of Australia right down to the
arrival of Federation. In all those years
N. S. Wales should have been the most
flourishing agricultural colony of the group;
Victoria and S. Australia, the Protectionist
members, should have been the most back-
ward. As a matter of hard fact, in all
branches of primary industry except sheep-
raising, N. S. Wales lagged hopelessly in
the rear. Its farming practice was bad; its
equipment was worse. All those implements
which made Australian wheat-farming at one
time the cheapest in the world came out
of the colonies whose Protectionist policy
enabled little factories to establish them-
selves in almost all the fair-sized towns in
Victoria and S. Australia, and to give us
the stripper, the stump-jump plough, the
winnower, the bag-loader and the bag-
filler, and later on the sundercut and the
header, all of them machines specially suited
to our needs. Simultaneously there were
springing up, under Protection, chemical
works to supply those fertilisers which, after
adding at least 30 per cent, to the wheat
harvests of Australia, are now on the way
to make an equal contribution to the graz-
ing capacity of Australia. The farmer has
done great things for this country; but it
is a fair claim that for half the harvest
which he handles not he but the laboratory
and factory are directly responsible.
There may be anomalies in the hurriedly
improvised tariff with which the late Gov-
ernment had to block imports and so save
Australia from default. But the primary
industries will be greatly disappointed if
they trust to the removal of these anoma-
lies for the reduction of their costs. They
must look elsewhere for that—to great
cuts in the cost of government and trans-
port; to a reduction in the army of para-
sites which now live largely upon them;
to the growth of secondary industries and
the production of still better and cheaper
mechanical and chemical aids; to better
and cheaper work in the factories which
supply their other needs; to more co-opera-
tion among themselves, and in many cases
better methods. There never was a time
when the whole community more clearly
recognised the farmers’ importance to the
Commonwealth; but they in their turn
must recognise the part that the secondary
industries have played in the development
of Australia, including its primary indus-
tries. And if would not be amiss either if
they also recognised that, bad as their own
state may be, that of the great bulk of
the secondary industries is at the moment
not a bit better.
No practicable reduction of costs, how-
ever, will do complete justice to the Aus-
tralian farmer, and especially the wheat-
farmer. As long as wage and price levels
are so much higher here than in most other
countries, it is grossly unfair that the Aus-
tralian primary producer should be
expected to accept world’s parity for his
goods in this market. The case for assist-
ance to the wheat industry is as strong
to-day as ever the case for assistance to the
sugar industry was; and there seems no
better way of rendering it than the one fol-
lowed in relation to sugar.
GOVERNORS AND THEIR JOB.
The Bulletin is not much interested in
the highly technical point raised by Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore and Clive Teece,
K.C., that, as the latter puts it, the Finan-
cial Agreement has become a part of the
Federal Constitution, and that, since it is
the duty of the Federal authority to de-
fend the Constitution, the Governor-General
might appropriately give certain advice
to the Governor of N. S. Wales in conse-
quence of the Lang Government’s default.
The sounder opinion is expressed by Pro-
fessor Berriedale Keith, of Edinburgh, that,
in effect, State Governors are not Federal
agents. There is no need to take any
roundabout course in order to get Mr. Lang
to the country; and. if there is that need
there shouldn’t be. The whole question is
not whether Mr. Lang is maintaining the
Federal law, but whether he represents the
people; and on' the Constitutional right
of the Governor to act in a case of that
nature, neither Professor Keith nor any
other accepted authority has any doubt at
all. “A Governor,” he says definitely, “may
dismiss a Ministry which has ceased to
represent the people.”
In a statement to the press Professor
Keith added: “A Governor no doubt has the
right, and might in a case of great emer-
gency have the duty, of compelling the
Premier to adopt a course of action under
penalty of removal from office.” The
Bulletin is not prepared to go that far.
Indeed, it believes that it would be very
dangerous- to accept any such proposition.
A Governor has no right and must not be
conceded the right to compel a Govern-
ment to adopt a certain policy on pain of
dismissal. If such a right were admitted,
it would be the Governor that would rule,
given the strong Governor and the weak
Premier. The authority of the Governor
to dismiss a Government must be exercised,
not because he disapproves of its policy in
any particular, but because he is doubtful
whether it has the people behind it. Cer-
tainly, in N. S’. Wales the Governor has to
closely watch appointments to the Leg.
Council; but, outside that, this function of
preserving the self-governing rights of the
people is the only one attaching to the
office of Governor which is nowadays worth
tuppence. If the Governor has not this
right to send to the country a Government
which he has good reason to believe does
not represent the people, then there is no
virtue whatever in the office, and there is
no reason why it should be continued. True,
he represents also Imperial interests. But
if his only province is to protect Imperial
interests, then the Empire and not we must
maintain him. The only justification for
putting that responsibility upon us is that
we get something in return; and that some-
thing is the safeguarding of our rights to
govern ourselves.
The critics on the other side of the
world do not plainly see how a Governor
can be at all sure that his Government is
out of step with the people. It would be
enormously difficult to be at all sure in
Britain. But it can be quite a simple
matter in Australia. For here we have the
same electorate returning two Parliaments.
It is true that rarely will the issues before
the State Parliaments be those which are
also before the Federal Parliament. The
present is one of the very rare occasions
in N. S. Wales. Mr. Lang fought the late
Federal election and nominated “Lang-plan
candidates” wherever they had the smallest
chance of winning. His State policy and
fiis Federal policy are identical; he has but
one plan and one policy. He won five
House of Representative seats out of 28.
For the Senate he did not win a single
seat. The franchise is exactly the same as
that on which the State Assembly is elected.
There could not therefore be a more com-
plete test of whether Mr. Lang has the con-
fidence of the people. Mr. Lang chose his
own ground for this trial; and there can-
not be the faintest shadow of doubt about
the people’s answer to his challenge—five
seats out of 31 is overwhelming proof. But
there was more than that. Those figures
would have justified action on the part of
the Governor. The fact that the Lang plan
could not win a single seat in any other
State demanded action; for in that cir-
cumstance there was plain proof that, in
the judgment of impartial outsiders, Mr.
Lang’s own countrymen, the Lang plan and
policy were too shameful to be given any
quarter.
We are once more reminded from London
that, “despite exasperation with Mr. Lang,
Australia must remember that the Gov-
ernor’s duty is to preserve impartiality.”
It is no more the Governor’s duty to pre-
serve impartiality than it is the Judge’s;
and just as it may be the duty of the impar-
tial Judge to sentence a man to death, so
must it be the duty of the impartial Gov-
ernor in certain circumstances to sentence a
Premier to face his constituents. Impar-
tiality does not mean inaction; and on
behalf of any Governor who stands by
while his State is being kicked to death
what better moral defence can be put up
than on behalf of the citizen who stands by
while a policeman is being kicked to death?
As might naturally be expected, and
although his main conclusions are correct,
Professor Keith is not always well
acquainted with local history. “It must be
remembered,” he says, “that the mere fact
that he fthe Governor] dismissed the
Ministry would certainly secure the Lang
party a measure of support which otherwise
could not be expected on its merits.” This
is not true; but suppose it were. Suppose
a bully were kicking the life out of another
man in the presence of a mob. Are the
police to do nothing because their inter-
ference would certainly swing the sym-
pathies of the mob still further towards the
bully—would indeed probably induce them
to join in with the bully? Are the authori-
ties to permit the man to be kicked to
death because somebody might resent their
most proper interference? But in this case
in which the Governor is interested we need
not fear resentment against the Constitu-
tional police for interfering; what we have
great need to fear is the resentment against
them for standing inactive by. The
Imperial Government, we are assured, is
“not unmindful of its obligations to inter-
vene if persistence in the present course in
N. S. Wales ultimately jeopardises Imperial
interests.” Imperial interests are very
important, but there are other things to he
preserved as well. The self-governing
rights of the people are among them; if
they are to be sacrificed—if no notice is
to be taken of their violation so long as
Imperial interests are conserved—then a
complete change m our method of appoint,-
ing State Governors will have to be made.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Trade Figures.
Our trade figures for the last six months
of 1931, now complete, show a surplus of
exports of £17,040,000 sterling. The gold
included was £4,291,547; but how much of
that is new metal it is not possible to say.
Half would be a liberal estimate; the other
half would, in that case, consist chiefly of
hoarded gold, along with metal hitherto
used industrially—in ornaments, etc. That
reduces the surplus of merchandise exports
to something under 15 millions sterling for
the half-year. There is not much differ-
ence between the aggregate exports of the
first and the second halves of the year,
given a fair wheat harvest; the bulk of the
wool goes out in October, November and
December and of the wheat in February,
March and April. We may therefore look
for an export surplus of 30 millions for the
current fiscal year. These are sterling
figures; and that is sufficient to pay the
overseas interest charges in sterling and
leave about two millions over, part of which
will be used up in paying the gold debt
in New York. Meantime, however, there
will be a further increase in the export of
hoarded and industrial gold. How the high
prices offering for the metal were attract-
ing sellers is shown by the progressive
monthly export of gold in the latter months
of last year:—
August . . £242,065 I November . . £502,949
September .. 211,355 | December .. 732,024
October . . 575,494 j
The attraction still continues.
Assuming that nothing insane is done
with the tariff, there is thus good reason
to expect a substantial accumulation of Aus-
tralian funds in London during the next
few months; already there is millions
with the Commonwealth Bank in London as
against 3\ millions a year ago. This must
make the maintenance of the present ex-
change rate difficult and a little dangerous
for those buying at the present figure; but
the accumulation of funds is likely to be
slow, and, desirable as it is to bring the
present discreditable depreciation of the
Australian £ in relation to sterling to an
end, any violent movement in the exchange
rate need not be expected. It seems more
probable that an effort will be made to
retain the present rate until the end of the
wool-export season, with a reduction then,
perhaps, to 15 per cent., it may be in two
steps.
Bruce for London.
The Commonwealth Government is doing
a wise thing in sending Mr. Bruce to London
to take charge of financial negotiations
which are beyond the High Commissioner,
and to occupy that gentleman’s place for
a while when he retires in June. In ordi-
nary times the stationing of a Minister in
London for perhaps a year, perhaps longer,
would not appeal; but these are not ordi-
nary times.
A situation without precedent has arisen.
The Government of the State with nearly
two-fifths of the Australian population and
one-third of the overseas debt (war debt
included) has defaulted in payment of inter-
est, and Lyons-Latham has resorted to the
desperate remedy of letting it default, in-
stead of paying the bill, as Scullin-Theo-
dore did when the same party defaulted last
year. For the 1931-32 twelvemonth the
defaulting Government is liable for £7,840,500
of interest in London and £671,666 in New
York, less the contributions to be made by
the Commonwealth under the financial agree-
ment, And £13,000,000 of the £165,978,440
which the State has borrowed in London
falls due in November and must be renewed
if the lenders are ever to get their money
back.
The mere announcement of the Lang
“plan” was enough to wreck Mr. Scullin’s
arrangements for a loan covering the London
portion of the unfunded debt; and it is cer-
tain Mr. Bruce will face a task of extra-
ordinary difficulty. His presence in London
will nevertheless convince people with open
minds that Australians are honest people in
the main, not Communists and crooks. No
man is better qualified to speak for his
native country in the crisis to which its
affairs have been brought, to the country in
which he was educated. If he succeeds in
what he has set out to do he will blot out
the memory of the mistakes he made as
Prime Minister. His mission will gain in
importance, and his opportunities for ser-
vice will increase, if, as seems likely, the
Imperial-preference discussions are trans-
ferred from Ottawa to London.
*
The Labor Worm Turns.
In the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor Caucus
there are 55 elected members, of whom
11 are Ministers. Under the administra-
tion of the 11, things have been done which
were never done in a British Common-
wealth before, and the credit of the State
has been shattered; but not a murmur has
been heard from the 44. They followed


their leader blindly, dumbly, when he
defaulted to the British and paid the
Americans; when he' smashed the Govern-
ment Savings Bank; when he tried to make
the unemployed-relief tax (which he had
said he would abolish) five shillings m the
pound; when, having promised to do away
with the one-twelfth cut, he sought to re-
duce the salaries of Judges, heads of depart-
ments and the like to £5OO p.a.; and when
he publicly rejoiced at the “deletion ot
that “iniquitous” thing “the sanctity ot the
written contract” —in fact, they humbly
assisted him to “delete’ it in liis Govern-
ment’s unspeakable mortgage, moratorium
and landlord-and-tenant laws. Nor did the
default at the beginning of February extort
a protest, or even a hint of criticism 01
concern, from any member of this pack of
political poltroons, though it is obviously
fraught with the gravest consequences to
the reputation and solvency of N. S. W ales
and the future of the unemployed, of whom
there are at least 120,000, nearly all on the
demoralising dole. ,
But at last mutterings of revolt are heard.
It is the simple faith of this mob Govern-
ment that N. S. Wales can be restored to
prosperity by “scaling” the public creditor,
“scabbing” on the sister-States, despoiling
those who can still pa.y taxes and encourag-
ing the wage-earners to go in for crazy
forms of gambling. These it has added to
by starting a Government lottery and by
reviving betting (banned by the Tory
Government) on the tin hare. But for some
unexplained reason it has restricted betting
licenses to the tin-hare joint run by that
distinguished American jurist “Judge
Swindell and his friends. Jack Munro s
joint, which was licensed in the good old
loan-drunk days before the Bavin bljght
settled on the tin-hare industry, has been
left out in the cold. What has Jack Munro’s
joint done to be thus despitefully treated
by a Government whose leader com-
placently reports that “the Revolution has
arrived”? Why should the Swindell con-
cern be privileged to make heaps of money
and declare fat dividends and see its shares
soar from shillings to pounds when the
Munro concern wants to be in the joke
and has its course and outfit ready? Is
it in accordance with “Labor principles”
that Swindell should, in a manner of speak-
ing, take his ease, and everything else
that’s going, in the tin-hare paradise, while
Jack Munro remains the peri at the gate,
neglected, loin, disconsolate? Jack Munro,
who, when he was director of the Stadium,
made it an open house for Parliamentary
deadheads!
These are the thoughts which are work-
ing in dull minds and have produced some-
thing like anger in timid breasts. • Such are
the considerations which have impelled “a
large number of influential Labor members,”
whom the disgrace and ruin of their State
and the felon blows at the sanctity of
contracts left unmoved, to “sign a petition
for a special meeting of Caucus, at which
a protest will be lodged against the un-
fair discrimination against the club at
Mascot, which possesses all the facilities
for greyhound racing, and a demand will
be made that the Ministry should immedi-
ately issue a license to it. ’
And such are the rulers of N. S. Wales!
4
Mr. Lang Gets His Orders.
The metropolitan conference, of the N.S.W.
State Labor party has decided to instruct
the Premier to make “the socialisation of
industry” the main issue at the next elec-
tions. “Socialisation” is the new name for
“Sovietisation”—for handing the complete
control of industry over to the unions,
which means in practice to the oligarchy
which controls the Trades Hall. Well, it is
good to have this frank declaration of
policy: it is much more honest, at any
rate, than the practice hitherto pursued.
Elected at the last election avowedly as an
opponent of Communism, along with the
repudiation of private and public debts
which goes with Communism, within three
months Mr. Lang began to do the Com-
munists’ work. This is, of course, in full
accord with Communist plans: its instruc-
tions to its agents are to white-ant other
bodies and make them fight for “the Cause”
until “the Cause” is well enough entrenched
to begin the offensive openly and for itself.
Now at least we know what the Lang brand
of Labor stands for. It stands for Com-
munism and all that Communism means.
The aim is to make Australia a little Russia
of the south. Democracy is to go by the
board. Private property is to go. Private
and public debts are to be repudiated—
which sounds very well until it is remem-
bered that wiping out private debts means
wiping out all savings bank deposits.
Religion is to go. The family life, as we
know it, is to go. Trial by jury is to go.
It is good to know what we are facing.
But we shall not go far towards meeting
and overcoming the danger unless we can
get the Avorking man to realise what is
ahead of him. He is the man who is going
to be sold into slavery to a huge, soulless
governing machine.
4
Bush-fires and Wasted Lives.
The fire god, who reigns more or less
supreme all the summer in the densely
wooded hills adjacent to Melbourne, has
staged a revival of the grim drama of 1926,
when 32 persons were burned to death ; and
only a shift of wind and a deluge of rain
prevented the tragedy being on a greater
scale than its predecessor. As The Bulle-
tin pointed out after the previous disaster,
unless the conscience of local residents and
authorities is properly awakened to the peril,
these catastrophes will continue to occur;
and unless the Government strengthens the
hands of those who understand the reme-
dies, the easy-going element will hamstring
all the efforts of the others.
One of the provisions against' loss ol lne
recommended by the Forests Commission
is provision of dug-outs at timbei nulls.
These enterprises penetrate ..into virgin
country, where they are as exposed to dangei
as a man smoking on a powder heap, f ire-
breaks'are obligatory, but no firebreak yet
made has been wide enough to stop the leap
of a bush-fire when the wind is blowing bO
miles an hour. It is significant that a
survey party which was caught on a moun-
tain' in the hottest part of the blaze escaped
with nothing worse than sore throats by
building a dug-out as soon as danger threat-
ened. . ~
Another problem that requires considera-
tion is the selection of sites for the liekety
little timber townships that are scattered
through the firebelt. They are usually at the
bottoms of deep gullies, which form a natu-
ral funnel for any fire that develops. Fire-
breaks are burnt around them, but with
characteristic fatalism the townspeople let,
bracken take the place of gum-trees until
their villages become potential deathtraps.
It was sheer luck 1 that saved some of these
townships and their populations this month,
and they were the same townships that suf-
fered a similar experience five years ago.
Some good may be done by increasing the
penalties imposed on the casual individuals
who light fires in unauthorised places, and
it is easy to shove the blame on to the
touring motorist. But, as everybody-who
knows anything about the country is aware,
there are fires constantly smouldering during
half the year in some part or other of the
immense area supposed to be controlled by
the Forestry people, and it only requires
a strong enough wind to turn these smoul-
derings into first-class conflagrations. A
fire which would have wiped out Warren-
dyte a couple of years ago, if it had not
been for the intervention of the volunteer
brigades from the city and the neighbor-
hood, was known by the residents to have
been burning for several weeks previously.
4
The N.S.W. No-Works Department.
From M. A. Davidson, Minister for .Public
Works:—
My attention has been drawn to an article in the
issue of your paper of the 3rd instant under the
heading of “Public Works Swindles,” which states,
inter alia, that £2OOO has been placed on the esti-
mates for the “remuneration” of the Parliamentary
Standing Committee on Public Works, notwithstand-
ing that there is no money for public works.
In reply, I wish to inform you that a Parlia-
mentary Standing Committee on Public Works has
not so far been appointed by the present Parlia-
ment and it would appear obvious, therefore, that
no “remuneration” can be received by a committee
which does not exist.
I would further point out that the writer of the
article referred to has exhibited a lamentable ignor-
ance of the working of this department. The fact
that there is no money for public works at the
present moment does not indicate that thei e are no
public works in progress—works which commenced
before the existing financial position became so acute.
In reply:—
The Bulletin said (3/2/’31): “N.S.W. Minister
Davidson confessed the other day that his Govern-
ment had no money for public works. Yet it had
the gall to place £2OOO on the estimates for the
‘rumuneration’ of the Public Works Committee.”
Every syllable of that is true; every syllable of
the whole article is true. On page 19 of the
“Budget Papers, 1931-32,” under the heading “Esti-
mates, 1931-32,” there is this line:—
PARLIAMENTARY PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION. ... £2OOO.
The Bulletin did not say that a committee had
been appointed. It said that Davidson’s department
had had the gall to place the amount on the
estimates. The “remuneration” is still available
therefore —it is a little amount put on the shelf
for distribution where and when it will do most
good.
Davidson, to prove this paper’s “lamentable
ignorance” of the working of his department, says
that “the fact that there is no money for public
works at the present moment does not indicate that
there are no public works in progress—works which
commenced before the existing financial position
became so acute.” Well, what has that got to do
with the Works Committee and the scandal of
putting by this money for its “remuneration” ?
Works that are “in progress,” having been com-
menced “before the existing financial position be-
came so acute,” have long ago ceased to interest
the Works Committee, which is concerned only with
works not. yet begun.
Mr. Davidson’s letter is thus a perfect example
of shuffling and evasion.
4
Public and Private Enterprise.
“Public ownership and control,” which for
close upon half a centuiy intrigued the
Labor parties of most countries of the
world, begins to take on a somewhat
different aspect. Thirty years and more
ago, when it was proposed, for example,
that private enterprise might be permitted
to build a bridge across Sydney Harbor, the
scheme was turned down with enthusiasm,
because, it was said, whereas private enter-
prise would want profits, public ownership
would not seek for anything of the sort.
Now we begin to realise that “profits” are
not quite what we thought they were, and
that interest on money borrowed by the
community, and badly spent, can be infi-
nitely more costly than the profit with
which private enterprise is ‘ content. The
private enterprise which would have thrown
a bridge over Sydney Harbor 30 years ago
would have been content with something
like £75,000 a, year. Actually we shall have
to pay public enterprise something like
£525,000 a year—certainly for a much more
imposing affair, with ornamental pylons
and all.
Jn the U.S.A. they allowed private enter-
prise to construct and operate the railways;
and for many a year Australia was inclined
to pity the poor republic which had per-
mitted the rapacious dividend-monger to
get control of these indispensable public
utilities. But, while Austi*alia, smitten with
depression, finds its railway debt hanging
around its neck like a millstone, and in-
volving a terrific burden of taxation,
America is paying hardly anything at all on
its railway capital. , Great systems like
the Baltimore and Ohio, the New A ork
Central, the Chicago and North-Western
and the Southern, which in more prosperous
days paid 8 p.c. or so, are cutting out divi-
dends altogether; and systems like the huge
Pennsylvania have come down to 2 p.c.
The 31 “common” stocks of the great U.S.
railways averaged 7\ p.c. just before the
crisis; the average now is 2-J p.c.—a cut of
61 p.c. It is quite true that we got our
railway money in good times for less than
7} p.c. But we ought to have realised that
it was cumulative preference capital; and
the concern which uses cheap cumulative
preference capital alone, and does not make
provision in good times for the payment of
the interest in bad times, is either a great
rogue or a great fool.
And- yet, if we could get the money to-
morrow, we would do precisely the same
thing over again, into such a sea of ignor-
ance and corruption has our government
descended.
4
The Danger from Communism.
From a thoughtful man on the dole: —
I am a returned soldier. I am on the dole —
have been for over a year. These statements I make
merely as an indication that I have known my
fellow-Aussies under conditions that brought out
the best in them and also under conditions that, to
say the least of it,' are well qualified to bring out
the worst. Living with them and suffering with
them in both uplifting and degrading circumstances
should be a qualification for knowing them.
I come into daily contact with all classes of
unemployed, and have watched carefully for indi-
cations that the Communist doctrine is gaining
headway; for surely never in the history of our
country have there been such- ideal conditions from
the Communist’s point of view for the propagation
of his seed. I have of necessity attended four N. S.
Wales dole depSts, the Quay, Mascot, Daceyville
and Hurstville, ideal grounds to test the viewpoint
of dissatisfied men, and I say that to even hear
Communism discussed, much less hear open advo-
cates, is quite a rarity. The majority of the
unemployed who give the Communist speakers a
hearing at their meetings do so with amused
tolerance.
Yet, in this tolerance, tempered as it is with
amusement, there is a very veal danger. The average
unemployed man does not give the tenets of any sect
very much thought. He has got into a.state of semi-
coma waiting for something to turn up. He is right
down to the breadline, his outlook for the immediate
future quite hopeless. What more natural than that,
unless the true meaning of Communism is hammered
into him, he might without thought be inclined to
give the disciples of Lenin a chance, his sole
argument in their favor being that they could not
make his condition any worse and might make it
better? Once make the dinkum Australian think,
and he will scoS at the idea that the Red brand of
Socialism that has been foisted on Russia would
suit him (that it suits even Russia is the world’s
fiercest controversy at present).
The Russian peasant class have the lowest standard
of living among the white races, the Australian
working man probably the highest. The Russian
peasant, practically uneducated, living for genera-
tions a life of utter and unthinking submission to
authority, was ideal material for the Communist, who
rises to power in the first instance by his plausible
oratory on the 'equality of man, etc., and retains
that power once gained purely and simply by the
unscrupulous exercise of brute force. Once persuaded
to help his Bolshie brothers into power, the peasant
didn’t find the life very different from his previous
existence. Equality of man certainly meant instant
obedience to the Brother on top, but he was used
to unthinking obedience.
The only real danger of the Australian giving a
footing to Communism lies in carelessness. He
might be inclined to give it a try-out on the quite
erroneous assumption that it could be easily got
rid of should its claims to be able to cure our ills
prove to be a myth. The fact that the Communists
are trying to foist on Australia exactly the same
brand of Socialism that was evolved in Russia, with-
out any modifications to meet the differences between
the Russian and the Australian, shows more optimism
than sense. That fact should show also that there
would be no modification in their methods for the
retention of any power gained. The world has never
seen more able or cruel exponents of the theory
that might is right than these supposed advocates
of the brotherhood of man.
No right-thinking man can deny the possibility
of radical changes in the near future. We may make
alterations in our form of government and our
money standard, make drastic alterations in our
social conditions. But we Australians are far more
likely to evolve the probably necessaiy and entirely
new standards for ourselves than we are to allow
a few foreign agitators to ram their supposed remedy
for our financial and social ills down our necks —
if we can make our people realise what the Com-
munist plan really is, and how difficult, if not im-
possible, it would be to throw the thing off if it
did not come up to specifications.
4
The Great Change in Asia.
Before the Great War the average Asiatic
did not trouble to distinguish one European
from another. In Java the Dutchman was
called “Blanda,” a corruption of Hollander.
The Englishman was called “Blanda Ing-
gris,” or English Dutchman. During the
civil wars in China white men used to walk
about between the belligerents secure in
their diplomatic immunity. Unedifying as
they were, the squabbles between one white
nation and another were too small and
local to destroy the legend of European
unity, and : the various Foreign Offices could
scrape together enough show of mutual
friendliness to cover the fact that they were
all busy cutting each other’s throats.
Armageddon and the Russian Revolu-
tion altered all this, and Chinese statesmen
soon found they could play one European
nation off against another. With the
hearty approval of the ex-Allied powers
they refused treaty rights to Germans, Rus-
sians, Austrians, Hungarians and other
“enemies.” Emboldened by this success
they then started to destroy the treaty
rights of the other Powers. They found
that the Bolshevik Russian was not wanted
in European drawing-rooms, so they first
started to kick him and then to angle for
his assistance. The white man who stirs
out of a treaty port is now treated accord-
ing to the attitude of his country towards
China. If he is a Russian he is either shot
or feted according to whether he gets into
Sovietised or Europeanised areas. If he
is an American he is nowadays likely to be
kindly treated. The Briton is alternately
hated and respected. A League of Nations
delegate would probably be put under a tap
and filled with water, since that august body
induced China to stand easy while it (the
League) blew Japan out of Manchuria.
*
“Trades Hall Tyranny.”
Charles Fearn’s final word:—
My charge against the N.S.W. Furnishing Trades
Union is simply that it kept me out of my trade
(woodcarving) for a very long period, and, finally,
when work was offered to me, denied me the right to
accept it, the reason given being that I had broken
the union rule by asking for work. This specific
charge of tyranny Mr. O. Schreiber ignores; he
is doing his best to bring my charge down to a
dispute of membership. But it is a strange thing
for a trade official to admit he supplies non-members
with membership cards to attend the dentist!
In answer to inquiries made in April, 1931, as to
why I was kept out of my trade, Mr. Schreiber wrote
that I was not a skilled woodcarvcr, notwithstanding
I had entered the union with an English Furnishing
Trades Union membership card endorsed “Carvers’
Branch, Scale A.” It was not till June, 1931, that
Mr. Schi’eiber discovered a new reason for keeping
me out of work—that I was not a member of the
union! My whole offence is that, wanting work, I
sought it. I should have gone on humbly begging
Mr. Schreiber to give it to me.
«
The Natural Resources of the Country.
Dear Bulletin, —Considering the lavish
extent to which the gifts of Nature are said
to have been poured out on this continent,
it is worth while to go into some detail over
the matter. The continent may be roughly
divided into three parts: (1) The blank
desert which won’t grow saleable vegetation
for want of rain, having less than 10 inches
per annum; (2) the region which has enough
rain (10 to 15 inches per annum) to pro-
duce a certain amount of saleable vegeta-
tion; and (3) the rest of the country. It
may be summarised like this: —
(l) (2) (3)
p.c. of p.c. of p.C. of
Area. Area. Area.
South Australia .. 81.74 9.59 8.67
Westralia . . • • 49.90 29.14 20.96
Northern Territory 26.83 25.36 47.81
N. S. Wales .. 19-71 25.28 59.01
Queensland .. 12.01 12.16 70.83
Victoria .. • • 21.93 78.07
The result is that over half this continent
is ruled out of consideration as an agricul-
tural area. .
And as a gold-producing land its luck is
none too good. It reached the top of its
fortune in 1903, these being the yields then
and afterwards: —
1903. 1930. Decvease.
Australia ..£16,294,684 £1,981,972 £14,312,712
Increase.
The World . . 66,650,000 84,000,000 17,150,000
There has been a promising little boom in
1931, but that was simply because gold,
including old jewellery, was fetching a sen-
sational figure.
Yet it is a point of honor to agree upon
the truth of the obvious lie that this is a
country unusually rich even for its size in
raw materials. Out of this various things
have developed:
The wheat-growing area has been pushed
much further out during recent years. It
has not touched the genuine desert, but it
has invaded the 10-15 in. rainfall region in
Victoria, where the people are living to a
great extent on State relief, to be eked out
by a wheat subsidy charged to loans.
The railway charges for export wheat to
the coast are too high owing to the wheat-
grower going out. to unpromising places.
The taxes are absurdly high, largely be-
cause so much loan money bearing high
interest has been spent on non-paying rail-
ways to carry problematical wheat too long
distances.
Because of the long distances, and the
high freights, and the use of inferior land,
and the high taxes, and the immense pro-
portion of the crop that has to be exported,
the price which used to give the farmer
a living doesn’t give one now, and he has
become dependent on a bounty.
In this difficult situation an influential
Country party has arisen to proclaim that
the salvation of Australia lies in a reduced
tariff, less tariff revenue, more imported
goods, less locally-made goods and, conse-
quently, fewer local customers for the Aus-
tralian farmer and a smaller industrial
population to share his burdens when wheat
and sugar and butter cry for direct 01 in-
direct subsidies lest thej 7, bust. And it is
reckoned that, owing to the last by-election,
the United Australian Party may be m a
minority of one if the Freetradeis combine
with the Communists. Of course the Low-
tariff or Big-imports policy wouldn t come
into force even if the Page minority de-
feated Prime Minister Lyons on the tariff
issue, for the people with vvhom it would
have to combine to bring about the Gov-
ernment defeat could only use the embit-
tered medico till he became impossible and
that; would happen within about 24 hours
of his success—Yours, Jambs Edmond.


VfnWffl- .
• I: K Til. Mir \
»May's./
* '*/
/ **■/
mt
- JiL’a
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
We can deliver from
stock.
Now is the time for
Top-dressing, and
here is the ideal
machine for the job.
Send for leaflets, or
call and inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phone: L 2715.
Diamond Engagement Rings
'■ fgpl
oo
£25-* 5 "
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARPY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
With money lent by the Saxon oppressor
at a low rate of interest, thousands of Irish
tenant farmers bought out the landlord and
became prosperous freeholders. A Free
State election report states that “Mr. Cos-
grave stands for the sanctity of the payment
of land annuities to Britain; Mr. de Valera
declares that there is no obligation to pay
the annuities, amounting to £3,000,000 p.a.,
and nothing to prevent their being retained
in Ireland and devoted to home agriculture.”
How like our revered Mr. Lang! He also
laughs at the sanctity of contracts. And,
with greater opportunities than De Valera
has hitherto enjoyed, he defaulted on a
3 p.c. British loan and assured the farmers
that he had done it for their sake.
The Roebourne by-election virtually
assures Mitchell and Co. of a majority until
they have to go to the country next year.
It was unexpectedly easy for the accredited
Nationalist, Church ; the Labor man did not
figure in the final ballot. All the same, no
one can aver with confidence of a place with
460 electors that what Roebourne says
to-day Westralia will say to-morrow.
THE WINNER: “Mine, I fancy, what?”
It looks as if the trip to Britain which
Hogan will begin this week will be his cur-
tain as Premier of Vic. Tunnecliffe will
lead in the Assembly when Parliament
resumes in April, but he and Jones, the
leader in the Council, know tliat it will be
only a matter of marking time until the
general election in July or August. Hogan
will have no trouble in securing re-election
for Warrenlieip-Grenville in his absence, if
he doesn’t wish to hurry back, but at least
six of his 29 followers are doomed. In
fact, his Government is as clearly “sent for”
as Scullin’s was in December, though the
defeat may not be quite as hollow.
Replying to a deputation desiring a return
to capital punishment, Premier Moore said
an Act of Parliament would be necessary
and no session would be held before the
election. That means also that there is to
be no attempt to set up a Second Chamber
—and the next Parliament may refuse even
to consider the question. If Queensland
ever gets a Lang, with no Second Chamber
to check him, it will revile the memory of
Moore.
Lang-planner Ward’s majority in East
Sydney was a mere 173. Communist pre-
ferences put him in, but they would not
have sufficed if the Nats, had taken care to
poll even 80 per cent, of the Potts Point,
Elizabeth Bay and King’s Cross vote (as
young McCall sadly says, many of the
people of those quarters, where Lang-
planners are scarce, “were on holiday”), and
if time had been given for the people of
Lord Howe Island to vote. The islanders
vote at State elections; in the King elec-
torate 16 month's ago 13 of them were for
the present Labor member, Clyne and 56
for the Nationalist. It is utterly wrong
to deprive them of the franchise at Common-
wealth elections, which concern them much
more closely than the wrangles of tbe
Bavins and the Langs.
The most striking feature of the East
Sydney by-election was the Lang-plan slump
in the industrial parts of the constituency.
On a reduced poll in pretty well every sub-
division, McCall got 377 more votes than the
ill-fated Clasby scored in Paddington, Wool-
loomooloo and Surry Hills. And, comparing
State-election and Federal by-election vot-
ing, the fall in Lang stocks was stunning.
In Paddington proper, O’Sullivan, M.L.A.,
got 4768 votes to 1215 cast for two oppo-
nents (one of whom lost his deposit) ; in
Glenmore his total was 5862, his opponents’,
1665. Ward-Miles (Communist) polled only
3441 in Paddington, and McCall-Cunning-
liam, 2179; in Glenmore it was 4280 for Ward-
Miles and 2945 for M cCa 11 -C un ni pgli'a m.
McCall received over two-thirds of Cunning-
ham’s preferences. In King, which is part
of the State electorate of that name, McCall
got an absolute majority (1917) ; the
McCall-Cunningham figures were 2161,
against 1586 for Ward-Miles. At the State
election, with Lord Howe Island voting,
King gave Clyne, M.L.A., a big lead: Clyne,
1918; Hagon (Nat.), 1520; Shayler, 63.
Don Habana Maduro Manana has a repu-
tation for thinking a long time before he
acts. The recent upheaval seems to have
livened him up, for it is recorded that 109
anarchists and Communists have been sum-
marily deported to Spanish' Guinea, an old
dumping ground for convicts. How about
Archdale Parkhill, who spoke such brave
words at election-time? Is he going to let
the lethargic Spaniard show him a point in
the matter of ridding Australia of dangerous
imported rubbish?
Asked by Lyons how much cash he could
or would put up to help to meet his interest
commitments abroad, Lang replied that coun-
sel had advised him not to disclose the
figure unless Lyons undertook that the
reply would not be used as evidence in liti-
gation between Commonwealth and State.
Why drag in counsel? It is an axiom of
the common law that no witness can be
compelled to give evidence likely to incrim-
inate himself.
The latest Sydney trade-union wrangle
concerns the Government lottery hands. It
is contended by one executive that they
should join the Clerks’ Union, by another
that the proper place for them is the Public
Service Association.. An official of the latter
gleefully reports the result of “a secret ballot
of lottery clerks”: “it shows that 270 are
in favor of joining my organisation against
47 for the Clerks.” Three hundred and
seventeen more Government employees, in
addition to Whiddon and his sub-bosses, to
staff a lottery joint! And before long, no
doubt, the whole crowd will be qualifying
for annual leave, “long” leave and superannu-
ation benefits —according to Whiddon, they
are already getting holidays and sick pay.
A deputation of librarians and university
professors who asked that books, especially
scientific and technical works, should be
admitted free of primage duty and sales tax
got no satisfaction from the Priminister.
That gentleman said, in awe-stricken accents,
that these taxes on knowledge yielded
£130,000 p.a., and rebuked W. K. Hancock,
the Adelaide Prof, of Modern History, for
saying, among other things, “I am very seri-
ously considering whether I can do any more
useful work in Australia, since my tools of
trade are becoming more and more difficult
to obtain.” Still, what shred of justification
is there for taxing books that students must
have when this kind of advertisement appears
in the papers ?
NO. 2 HARBOR BRIDGE STATE LOTTERY.
4244 Prizes. £20,000 to £2.
Free of Federal and State Income Taxes.
Hancock has a right to be angry.
Lang says his Government is not going
to abolish the Agency-General, whatever the
“dingoes” may do, “because it is essential
“I’ve called, look you, to put the Ostrel-
lian poseetion from the Ostrellian point
of view, and I’ve brought some Ostrel-
lian emblems with me. They are fery
good emblems, whateffer.”
that we should have in England a man who
will put the Australian position from the
Australian point of view.” He means Mr.
Albert Willis, from Abertillery, Wales.
The Billposters’ Union in Melbourne in-
duced Assistant-Minister Webber to speak
severely to magistrate Berriman for having
worn a political button at a Wages Board
meeting. Berriman explained that the
offending badge was an A.F-A. emblem, that
he had joined that organisation under the
impression that it was a non-party one,
and that he had lost interest in if to the
extent that he bad forgotten to take the
button out of his upper garment. The
honor of the Billposters’ Union was satis-
fied.
“Says Dr. Page, ‘I have read with interest state-
ments by the Prime Minister that the way is still
open for the Country party to join the Ministry,
but the next move resta with Mr. Lyons.’ Says Mr.
Lyons, ‘Any reopening of the question is a matter
for Dr. Page.’”
“It’s your move, blast you!”
“No, blast you, it’s yours!”
Lyons-Latham is undoing a bad job done
by Bruce-Page. That Government in the
innocence of its heart handed over the enter-
tainment and instruction of the people, via
broadcasting, to a concern composed of a
moving-picture showman, a music-hall pro-
prietor and a seller of sheet music, largely
jazz ditties. People pay 245. a year for a
service which has been just like that, and
many have placed it on record that they
prefer the “B” stations, which do not share
in the license fees. The movie-music-hall-
jazz-song syndicate protests that it has
made nothing out of the business, but the
Auditor-General is frankly sceptical. The
contract is not to be renewed when it ex-
pires in June; a commission will then con-
trol programmes, and the Post Office the
technical side, pending a permanent
arrangement—which, if the right man can
be got, may be on the lines of the great
8.8. C.
Lang, Beasley and the rest have been
ordered by the Metropolitan Conference of
the A.L.P. (the Graves-Garden concern) to
“fight all future elections, State and Federal,
on the question of the party’s objective, the
socialisation of industry, together with any
immediate demands considered necessary”—
whatever that may mean. Meantime these
queer people are multiplying capitalists at
a brisk rate by running lotteries. Pos-
sibly one of “the immediate demands” will
be for the socialisation of these lotteries. It
is certainly ridiculous for a party profes-
sing socialism to be encouraging capitalism
in its most unproductive form, and if social-
ism can be established in three years (as
was said at the last Easter conference of the
same crowd) the socialisation of lotteries
would be child’s play. The Lang goods cur-
rency might be introduced at the same time;
then lucky drawers could perhaps be in-
duced to take, instead of £5OOO (or £20,000)
“free of State and Federal income taxes,”
bricks from the State brickyard, pipes from
the State pipeworks, trucks from the State
railways, and so on.
J. P. Fry, M.L.A. for Ivurilpa, is so sore
over the way the boundaries of his electorate
have been altered that he is threatening to
leave it, and fight Attorney-General Mac-
groarty in South Brisbane, Macgroarty’s
being the most convenient head to have a
whang at. This is reckoned flat mutiny,
and a special committee has been appointed
to confer with the recalcitrant one and his
prospective opponent “in the best interests
of the party and the people of Queensland”
—party being placed first, of course.
Figures compiled by Shannon, one of the
Commissioners, show that Vic. railway em-
ployees now number 22,000, as compared
with 29,000 in 1920-27. All the same, there
are still between 1500 and 2000 surplus
hands.; hence rationing. In 1926-27 the
revenue was £13,700,000; in the current
year it is expected to be only £9.000,000, of
which £4,000,000 will be needed for interest,
including £400,000 for exchange. The
revenue for 32 weeks has fallen off by
£567.885, compared with the same period
in 1930-31.
Sear, the bumptious secretary of the
A.R.U., told Tunnecliffe that if his Govern-
ment didn’t abolish rationing on the rail-
ways there would be “something doing”
Tunnecliffe replied that there probablv would
be “something doing 0 in any case. In 1903
there was “something doing” for a week,
and a lot of railway men and union secre-
taries were sorry afterwards, particularly
when a little bill was passed.
Badly, the dole Minister, has had scores
of Sydney grocers struck off the list of
those authorised to supply the unemployed.
It is a sentence of ruin to some, for there
are many unemployed, and little cash can be
got from wage-earners demoralised by the
Labor lotteries and tin-hare hells. Badly’s
dole inspectors, of whom there is a regular
army, reported that the offenders were “sell-
ing goods not' manufactured in this State”;
some of them, furthermore, “have joined the
New Guard.” And this unspeakable spying
on and boycotting of men for exercising their
rights as citizens of the Commonwealth is
what Labor has got down to, after 31 years
of Federation, in N. S. Wales!
From the Wagga “Advertiser”: —
LOAN COUNCIL
£OO,OOO SOUGHT BY N.S.W.
Application Not Sanctioned.
Surely Mr. Lang’s credit can’t fall much
lower than that.
“S. M. Herald” startled Bavin, the
Nationalist leader, and Gibson, of the
A.F.A., last week by telling them it was
sick of their “entirely futile controversy.”
Moreover, the electors “are quite plainly
wearied and disgusted with these eternal
recriminations between faction leaders....
these futile and indecent wranglings....
which are only making the current distress
and dismay more wretched because deprived
of a hope of bold and disinterested leader-
ship.” Turning sharply on Bavin, the old
paper took him to task for saying, in
attempted justification of a breach of the
understanding with the A.F.A., that “the
National Association found itself unable
to proceed with the negotiations at the point
at which they were left off.” “The negotia-
tions were not left off,” quoth the “Herald”
indignantly. “They were distinctly and pub-
licly announced as completed, except for cer-
tain matters of internal policy necessarily
left to the coming convention.” The truth
is that the anti-Lang forces need a new
leader, and Mick Bruxner is the obvious
choice. Bruxner is the only man in the House
who can stand up to Lang and his gang; the
only member of the Opposition for whom
they have the respect which fearlessness and
strength of character inspire in even the
mob politician’s breast. Besides, Sydney has
GRANNY: “Didn’t you varmints -promise not
to quarrel? Take that, and that!”
to look to the country to deliver it from
Lang, and the country won’t warm to Bavin
or any other Sydney man.
Including £1,553,000 for buildings and
repairs, Australia spent £12,367,000 on its
Government schools in 1929—the latest
year for which the Commonwealth “Year-
Book,” just out, could get complete figures.
N.S.W.’s bill was £4,978,600, and Victoria’s
£2,896,900 ; characteristically, Lang is main-
taining this dizzy rate of expenditure as far
as circumstances allow, while Hogan is mak-
ing substantial reductions. Leaving technical
schools out, “the net. cost per scholar in
average attendance amounted to £l4 ss. 7d.,
as compared with £4 9s. 3d. in 1901.” Less
was spent on technical education (£875,800,
including £73,400 for buildings) than on the
secondary schools (£1,285,100, exclusive of
buildings) ; but, as John Stonham, M.A.,
the editor of the “Year-Book,” drily observes,
“technical education has not been regarded
as of outstanding importance,” whereas no
expense has been spared in providing frills,
The vast preponderance of women on the
teaching staff (19,732 ladies, 13,582 gents.)
is another thought-provoking circumstance.
In Tasmania there are only" 367 men on a
staff of 1392. Even in the case of principals
the men are outnumbered there (230
masters, 360 mistresses), though in the
other five States male principals are in the
majority.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Ellyar”: During the last heat wave in
Brisbane a suburban gardener was so
obviously dying for a drink that his plight
moved the pity of the lady of tne ’ouse.
“I can make you a cup of tea in ten
minutes, or would you prefer a bottle of
beer straight off the ice?” she said. The
thirsty one mopped his brow. Eagerness for
alcohol might create a bad impression in
the mind of his employer, and the
situation called for delicate handling. His
mind worked nuickly. “Whichever’s the least
trouble for you, Missus,” he said gratefully.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A witness who said he had left
a Sydney boarding-house “.because there was
another comedian there,” and was thereupon
reproved by the Bench for levity, iea.y
touched the edge of a great truth, ihe in-
mates of the average boarding-house are cast
very much on the lines of a play. Every place
has its recognised comedian; it has also its
leading lady, its juvenile, its villain and its
character old man —all put into their ro es
by popular opinion. Sometimes there are
changes in the cast, and there may be any
number of intermediate characters, but the
principal parts are always filled. Certainly
the heroine of the boarding-house is quite
as likely to marry the character old man as
the male leading juvenile, with whom she is
often on bad terms, but that is a mere detail.
And, as on the stage, the comedian is often
the hardest of all the characters to endure, it
is improbable that any boarding-house could
stand more than one.
# ‘-I- 5 C
“X.S.”: An echo from a criminal past
reverberated through the City Court, Mel-
bourne, when an elderly, grey-headed man
was charged witli the minor offence ot re-
ceiving two women’s silk coats, believed to
have been stolen. The accused admitted,
in answer to a question from his own
counsel, that he had been sentenced to death
for murder 24 years previously. Ihe
startled Court looked at him as if it saw
an apparition risen from the grave, but he
quietly explained that the sentence had been
commuted to imprisonment and that he had
been released for good conduct in J JIS.
since when the present offence had been his
only lapse.
* * * *
“Selma” : Life in Darlinghurst is full of
unexpected interludes. A flapper was enter-
taining the boy friend in the lounge of the
family flat, the outer door being left open
for coolness, when in rushed a strange woman
in a kimono. Without a word of apology or
explanation she dashed to the window, drew up
the blind and leaned far out. The window looks
directly into the lounge of a flat in the next-
door building. “There they are,” shouted the
strange lady. “See them? That’s my hus-
band and the hussy lie’s carrying on with!
Turning to the amazed young couple on the
chesterfield, she added, “I’m divorcing him, the
cow! You two will get summonses to give
evidence.” Then she sailed out, muttering
darkly. She has not been seen since, and
the two young things are trusting they will
not be called to depose on oath that in the
next flat they saw a solemn couple absorb-
edly playing draughts.
“K. Cross” : Yes, strange things happen in
Darlinghurst. The police raided an establish-
ment known as the
Byron Club, an
institution which
the sergeant in
charge of the raid
said was known to
him to be “con-
ducted along rigidly
exclusive lines’
and “patronised by
men of the highest
class, who include
leading prof e s-
sional men and
well-known figures
in the commercial
world.” This re-
treat, according to
one of the news-
papers, is “elabo-
rately fitted and
furnished with ex-
pensive, but rare,
taste.” The J.
Hops found 26
men playing
“m o s h,” and
arrested them for
being in a “com-
mon gaming-
house.” When the
charges were called
at Central Court
next morning it
was found the bag
consisted of eleven
laborers, eight
clerks, two turners,
two agents, one
barman, one presser
and one jeweller,
and there wasn’t a
well-known name
in the lot. These
humble defendants
were fined a quid
apiece in their ab-
sence —only one, a
clerk, appeared—
and what Darling-
hurst wants to
know is how the
wealthy and distin-
guished coves who the police say frequent
the joint managed to pack it with impecu-
nious visitors on the night of the raid.
* * * *
“N or M”: The latest war trouble, accord-
ing to the dailies, is the Sino-Japanese one,
though why the “S” should suddenly re-
place the “Oh” is something of n mystery.
Probably few nations call themselves what
other people do, but the Chinese name for
their country, as far as can be ascertained,
is Chung-Hua-Min-Kuo, which doesn’t seem
to throw any light on the latest abbrevia-
tion. Webster, however, gives “Sinae” as
a synonym for Chinese, . though, the adjec-
tive he harnesses to it is “Sinico,” and a
“sinicism,” one learns, is something peculiar
to the Chinese —pigtails, possibly, and
edible birds’-nests. There seems a certain
craving for the termination “o” when a con-
test between two nations lias to be sched-
uled Thus we had the Franco-Prussian
War, the Russo-Turkish' (or Turco-Russian)
War, and —according to some authorities —■
the Hispano-American War. The Great
War was, perhaps, the only one that never
needed any distinctive title.
s.s * *
“Mells”: The British P.M.G. states that
letters posted in the TJ.K. intended for Perth,
Scotland, occasionally find their way to Perth*
Westralia, but that there are standing in-
structions for sorters that the Scottish
city should have the preference when the
name of the country doesn’t appear on the
address. It seems a sensible regulation in
this case, but one wonders how far it is
carried. Would a letter addressed to some-
body in Melbourne without any further en-
lightenment for the sorter travel first to
the hamlet in the Midlands that supplied
Queen Victoria’s first Prime Minister with
his title before it became necessary tor
some underling to scrawl “Try Australia”
on it? There are scores of similar duplica-
tions. Randwick is an important Sydney
AN OBJECT-LESSON.
AUNTY (at Gallery): “There now—see what ’appens to people who keep on chewing
their finger-nails.”
suburb, for instance, and probably not many
of its residents are aware of the existence
of the little Gloucestershire village after
which it was doubtless named. Would the
same rule hold good in this case? People
who are absent-minded or asinine enough
to give the post office such puzzles to solve
don’t deserve much consideration, but the
P.M.G.’s statement might have been made
a little more comprehensive.
* * * *
“Nikko” : Even a magistrate can do a bit
of police work in time of necessity. In the
sleepy little Maoriland town of Blenheim
the other day, the S.M., T. E. Maunsell. had
just left the courthouse, and in extracting
a note from his pocket-book dropped, un-
noticed by himself, a roll of money. A lynx-
eyed loafer seized the roll and sped off with
it, while bystanders yelled to the S.M. that
his money was gone. The beak, without a
moment’s hesitation, gave chase, and showed
a fine turn of speed, overhauling and secur-
ing his man before the latter was out of the
main street. The case stands as a record
for fast work in M.L. court circles.; the
delinquent was chased, caught, tried, con-
victed and sentenced in well under an hour.
“Ela” : That par. about nail-
ing a writ to a ship’s mast in
Maoriland (B. 3/2/’32) re-
minds me of the vicissitudes ot
the old Merrie England in the
days when British New Guinea
(now Papua) was under the
banner of the Colonial Office.
Queensland, N.S.W. and Vic-
toria were supposed to provide
the wherewithal for governing
it. They did this so meagrely
that stout old William Mac-
gregor, who laid the founda-
tions on which some of his
better advertised successors
have reared a showy edifice, was
often hard put to it to pay the
salaries of his tiny staff of offi-
cials and to keep the wheels
turning. One thorn in his side
was the patched-up and dry-
rot-eaten Merrie England. It
was imperative to dock her
periodically in Brisbane for re-
pairs—She was wooden plank-
ing on iron frames —and more
than once the unfeeling dock
authorities refused to release
her until their bill was paid.
One day a lad came on board
announcing he was going to nail
the latest writ to the mast. It
you do,” said the skipper of
that day, “you’ll bring the
blanky contraption down on
your head. Wait a moment.”
He rushed off and returned
from the chartroom with a pot
of paste. “Here,” he said,
“stick your blasted writ on with
this”; and it was done.
“Uitlander” : Commenting on the announce-
ment that “descendants of all Sydney’s old-
est families” will take part in one of the
shivoos at the Bridge celebrations, a daily
newspaper writer remarks, with entire accu-
racy, that Sydney’s oldest families are those
whose forebears arrived in the First Fleet. 1
I should not like to have the ordering of this
affair: it would be a dreadful thing if invi-
tations were extended to people whose an-
cestors were “brought out.” Except in cases
like those of the descendants of Government
officials there is really very little means
of ascertaining where the representatives ot
Sydney’s (and Australia’s) oldest families
are to be found. It is different in some of
the other States: Westralia, for instance.
The names of Westralia’s first batch ot
settlers, who. arrived in the Parmelia in 1829
used to be given honorable mention annual y
in the Westralian Year-Book, names, ages
a„d everything, until Federation brought
that publication to an end. They were a
long-lived lot on the whole, and two or throe
of the yomifest voyagers t ™™ved >nto 'hia
(be Swin Kive?, and'the nlatost descendant
prodl,ce nownd “ JS
* * * *
p Murphy, formerly Protector of
Aborigines for Arnhem Land, writes:—
Thg gtory o{ two w hite women from the Douglas
Mawson being held captive by the natives on the
nort jj. east coas t of Arnhem Land, North Australia (B.
3 ji/< 32), appears to have originated in the brain
of someone w ; t h a very limited knowledge of local
aboriginal conditions. Arnhem Land is isolated but
by no means unknown, and no confirmation of the
story coul(J ever be got by those who know the
coun t r y and its natives. Recently the Roper River
police were camp ed at Caledon Bay, in the heart of
tbe coun try where the women are reported to be
b eld. East from the Goydet River to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, the natives are difficult to fraternise
w ith ; they retain a sullen hostility to the white
man . The country is composed of flat-topped, hungry
tablelands and long stretches of jungly, swampy
DEPENDS.
“I'd hate to marry a spendthrift, wouldn't you?
“It wouldn’t be so bad if he was only just starting,
love.”
valleys . it is in these swamps that the native
mostly lives, fever-stricken areas
the mosquitoes rise in clo> < No %Vol^an would
day the sandfly is mostly wit ■ bugh life of
survive for six months of t - g itable eoast .
the Far Noith, if landed o revolting
held captive by natives wh , li te ’
and subjected to the ravages of ch
quite apart fiom the hos y
(which is considerable . The a
tional, will remain, but t e
shrrf ol telmble that «n™.s
Douglas Mawson ever landed on the coa
QUO VADIMUS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“With a taste for gambling, a horror of economies,
and madness in expenditure—whither goest thou,
imprudent people?”— Georges Ferres asks Australia
in “Le Matin*”
Where are we heading, Gallic brother, eh?
Ou allons nous? It’s mighty hard to say.
Queer-street apparently is what you meant,
Or its Parisian equivalent.
Still, you have had your times of direr stress
And struggled through and out of them,
confess,
When old Clemenceau stiffened hearts that
sank,
Or Poincare revived the stricken franc.
The hour has mostly found the man for you.
Wish us, mon cher ami, a “Tiger,” too.
Where are we bound? Appraisingly you
eyed
All that there was to see on Sydney-side.
Marvelled, perhaps, depression’s cloud despite,
We held our cares so cheap, our debts so
light.
I see you, ’mid the city’s cheerful buzz,
H’isting your shoulders, as a Frenchman
does,
What time you watched the eager, surging
rank
Of lottery patrons round a busted bank,
Or gazed upon the Bridge, and felt a chill
Doubt as to how ws’d ever foot the bill,
And possibly concluded things like these
Peculiar to your Antipodes.
Where are we going? Well, monsieur, you
know,
Had you been here some eighteen months ago
You would have heard that Lang was bound
to stage,
Once he was back, another Golden Age.
Swiftly again th*' wheels of trade would turn,
With jobs for all their daily wage to earn.
SILENCE IS GOLDEN.
“The doc’ says I gotta cut out wine an’ gin, an’ brandy an’ beer.”
“What about whisky?”
“He didn’ mention whisky, an’ neither did I.”
He’d but to wave his wand, to bang his drum,
And towards terrestrial Elysium
Our steps, you would have learned, were
safely set:
The rtouble is that no one s glimpsed it yet.
Where will we get, with such as these to
guide?
What haps when beggars upon horseback
ride?
Still, when they’re tumbled there’ll be per-
force
A change of destination for the horse.
Where are we bound? Well, monsieur, you’ll
agree
You change your leaders oftener than we,
And never yet but was a price to pay
For those who fool their dupes and trust
betray.
Where are we heading? Whither do we fare?
There’s nobody can say while Lang is there.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jungor” : The march of civilisation must
long since have reached Cue (W.A.) where,
during the inquest concerning the human
remains found near the rabbit-proof fence,
“the Coroner, despite the fearful heat,
refused to allow court etiquette to be
sullied by coatless officials.” In the Cue
of the ’nineties, of which I still retain vivid
recollections, I have heard coatless lawyers
arguing before beaks no less sensibly attired,
and nobody suggested that the dignity of
the Law suffered in any way. The town
council meetings in summer-time, with a
half a score of shirt-sleeved city fathers half-
hidden in a cloud of tobacco-smoke, had a
homely pleasantness of their own wdiicli I
have never found elsew’here in similar
gatherings. One torrid night the discus-
sion of municipal problems was suddenly
interrupted by the cry of “Fire” from with-
out —a dread word in’ every goldfields settle-
ment of those days. Without a word the
meeting adjourned itself; the Mayor was
the first outside, and within ten seconds
the council chamber was empty. After the
blaze, which didn’t amount- to much, had
been extinguished, I encountered tlie town
clerk and asked him when the interrupted
municipal business was to be resumed. He
said he wasn’t going round all the pubs to
try to get a quorum; there was nothing
that couldn’t wait till the next meeting
anyhow.
* -•!: * *
“Strict Veg.”: An interesting feature of
the depression is an enormous outburst of
tenderness of feeling for animals displayed
by “Pro Bono Publico.” Hardly a day passes
but an elderly spinster writes to the Mel-
bourne papers about the callous treatment of
stray dogs by the men who gather them up,
ANOTHER MISCUE.
JACK: “I wonder if you’ve thought anything about reincarnation?”
JILL: “No, I’m not a bit interested in gardening.”
and the woes of cats, animals in menageries,
monkeys said to be misused in circuses, polar
bears suffering from the heat in zoos and
horses subjected to inoculation at the Govern-
ment serum laboratories receive more attention
than the unemployed. It is perhaps wrong
to* accuse these humanitarians of lack of
feeling for their fellow-mortals. The fact
is that nine-tenths of the community haven’t
the foggiest notion what are the causes of
•the depression, and so they turn from the
distracting subject to the troubles of the
dumb creation. Another reason is the sub-
conscious resentment felt by people who
still hold their positions against the un-
employed, who are possible competitors for
the few jobs going. For these the cats,
dogs, horses and polar bears are not com-
petitors.
* * :i: *
“Nakhoda”: The Dutch Government in
Java is having its full issue of troubles
under the world depression. Unemployment
amongst whites has reached the unprece-
dented figure of over 3000; there is an added
danger in the fact that many of the people
classed as Europeans ai’e Eurasians; half-
castes have been at the bottom of most revolu-
tionary or seditious movements amongst the
natives. One of the economy measures .of
the bureaucracy caused more laughter than
relief to the public finances. It was decreed
that all married women in the public service
who do not provide for the upkeep of a family
should be sacked. Large numbers of the
threatened immediately sent in word that
they proposed to divorce their husbands, the
grounds being presumably already available
or easily to be provided. The alarmed Ad-
ministration promptly circularised the ladies,
pointing out the immorality of breaking up
happy homes for merely mercenary considera-
tions and hinting that offenders would not be
allowed to profit thereby. In the meantime,
however, several of the indignant females had
already started proceedings.
* * =:• *
“T.P.”: The last Vic. State school-
teacher to come under the pension system
abandoned a half-century since has just re-
tired from the service. The system was intro-
duced in the goldfield days, after public ser-
vants had summarily downed pens to take up
picks and shovels, and the “something sure”
attracted sufficient employees to keep the
wheels going round. Many retired teachers,
octogenarians in some cases, whose pensions
were calculated on the meagre wages of last
century and the first part of this, are hav-
ing a thin time at present owing to the
emergency cut.
* * * *
“Say Bo”: The rescue of a drowning
person from the Yarra at the Anderson-street
bridge had unusual features. A young
woman, who stated subsequently that she
had lost her memory while walking along
the river bank, was seen by several pedes-
trians to be in difficulties,' but the person
who acted with most promptitude was driv-
ing a motor-car. Stopping only to remove
an overcoat, this individual leapt on to the
parapet, took a neat header into the stream,
brought the drowning woman to shore, and
then drove off, refusing to give any name to
an admiring policeman. Yet the* unknown)
w-as of the sex that loves to get its pitcher in
the paper.
* * $ *
“Morimoto” : History repeats itself in the
Shanghai w’ar, where the stiff resistance put
up by the Chinese air force is attributed to
the fact that it is largely officered by foreign
flying men. One of them is an Australian,
and another Captain Bert Hall, an Ameri-
can ace. who some years ago published
“One Man’s War,” a rather flamboyant
account of his exploits with a French
squadron in France. When “Chinese”
Gordon took over command of the “Ever-
Victorious Army” of the Manckus in 1860
he displaced Colonel Burgevine, a volatile
American adventurer, wdio took his defeat
badly. After intriguing against Gordon at
Peking he suddenly seized a steamer at
Shanghai and joined the Taiping rebels at
Soochow with 300 other European adven-
turers of assorted nationalities. Burgevine
was as daring if not as good a general as
Gordon, and several times visited Shanghai
in disguise to obtain munitions. The war,
however, was generally conducted on unortho-
dox principles, there being neutral ground
between the armies on which the Euro-
pean mercenaries of both sides gave parties
to each other. From these affairs they usually
departed so well oiled that sometimes some
of them arrived on the wrong side of No
Man’s Land. When Gordon marched on
Soochow Burgevine arranged a private inter-
view, at which he proposed that they
should join forces and advance to the
capture of PeKing with an army estimated
at 20,000. When the Taiping position
became hopeless Gordon, with characteristic,
humanity, agreed to assist the enemy mer-
cenaries to desert en masse. If their scheme
had become known the Taipings would have
beheaded the lot, so a sham attack was
staged. The 300 Europeans, poured on
board the little ITyson, Gordon’s flagship,
and, as soon as they were all aboard, the
gangway was hoisted and the vessel sailed
for Shanghai. Burgevine, however, was not
amongst them, and Gordon worked tirelessly
for his repatriation. He was eventually
drowned by the upsetting of a ferry, no
doubt by design, as he was a thorn in the
side of the Chinese authorities.
THE TRAGEDY.
SOCIETY DAME: “And how many children have you
and your husband?"
YOUNG COUNTRY DAME: “Six.”
SOCIETY DAME: “Oh, dear! How you must neglect your bridge!"
“S.T.'S.”: The Mallee scrub of South Aus-
tralia, through which the railway to Mel-
bourne runs, and which the State still
ungratefully calls the “Ninety-mile Desert,”
though much of it is now being farmed, has
had an incident which shows that it may
be as dangerous to accept a lift in a
motor as to give one. The police, after a
long chase of two youths in a stolen car,
gathered in three. The driver explained
that he was “a journalist, of Perth, aged
20,” walking from Adelaide to Melbourne,
and had been picked up and asked to take
the wheel. Discharged “without a stain on
his character”; and a kindly Bench even
paid his fare back to the Victorian border.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Looking through a London
directory the other day I noted that the
Society of British Israelites still flourishes.
This exists to prove that the British are
the lost Ten Tribes of Israel. It seems very
definite that the tribes of the Captivity were
never lost at all. They are very much in
evidence to-day all along the Tigris and
Euphrates, and are colloquially known as
“Bagdad Jews.” They have been
there since time immemorial, and
themselves claim to be descendants
of the thousands who preferred to
remain in exile rather than return
to Palestine when the chance was
given them. There is further evi-
dence of this in a story of the
memoirs of General McCunn, who
was C. in C. in Mespot, after the
war. The .Chief Rabbi at Bagdad
complained to him that the Chaldean Chris-
tians used to stone his people on Good Fri-
days. “Why should they do this?” he asked.
“We Israelites had nothing to do with the
crucifixion of Jesus Ibn Yusaf; that was
the work of the Children of Judah.”
* * * .-is
“Camou”: A little-known phase of the
Great War has been recalled by the
death of Fernard Jacopozzi,
who perpetrated what must
have been one of the most
wholesale fakes in history.
When the German ’planes
were giving Paris a bad
time w T ith their bombs,
Clemenceau conceived the
idea of erecting a false
Paris, some distance away
from the real one. and the
job was given to Jacopozzi.
Intended for night use only,
for the French ’planes and
anti-aircraft guns could deal
with the invader by day, the
bogus capital was no more
than an ingenious system of
electric lighting. From the
air, the invader saw Paris
lit up by night, with rail-
way stations, .signals, moving
trains and street traffic and
other realistic effects. Many
hundreds of valuable Ger-
man bombs were Avasted on
this phantom city, though it
is said more than one Gei’-
man aviator remained
puzzled to the end of his
days as to w r hy Paris -was
so far out of its proper position as plotted
on his charts.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: For some reason women in
Ireland progress but slowly into the Par-
liamentary limelight; either they aren’t so
anxious _ for it as their English sisters or
politics is regarded as being more essentially
a masculine job.- At the-DailEi realm elec-
tions there is only a single woman
candidate, Mrs. Collins O’Driscoll. who was
the only woman in the last Dail of 353
members. The Senate (GO members) has
four of the sex; the House of Commons had
15 when it was dissolved last year, and there
were 62 women candidates at the elections,
though the number returned fell back a little.
If women are taking a back seat in modern
Irish politics they certainly weren’t doing so
in the pre-Home Rule era, for the very first
w T oman elected to the House of Commons was
Irish. Countess Markiewicz. The Countess
antedated Lady Astor as an M.P. by several
months, altliougn she never took her seat at
Westminster.
* * * *
“Vulcan” : The conviction that malted and
o ther liquors possess more muscle-building
properties than tea and barley water (B.
1 0/2/’32) will die hard, if it ever does die,
in Brita i n despite all the temperance re-
formers> Tennvson put it in two lines in
nmr Northern ‘ Cobbler” •
An , >blacksmith , e strips the thick ov ’is aim, an’
«p eea e i thou this! Thou' can’t graw this upo’ watter!”
says he.
se tg m e recalling the typical blacksmith
m y rerno t e youth in England, who gener-
ad looked the* strongest man in the village,
wl / ether or not adventitious aids supple-
monte(j th e strenuousness of his calling,
j jon gf e ii 0W stressed the same thing in his
poem on this particular craftsman. Now
that the blacksmith—the old shoeing smith,
at a ]i events—has almost vanished with the
gradnal extinction of the horse, I wonder
* h h taken hig lace ag the vil i ag e Her-
T rr ,
cules * rhe motor mechamc?
*
“Bloggs”: Our anti-Beds have a lot to
learn. Fascism, as Mussolini observed, is
“not for export.” Each race has to develop
its own brand, and the inspiration must be
constructive. The forcible administration of
purgatives wouldn’t have got the Duce any-
where by itself, though it got the laughs.
Mussolini won on his policy of social
reform, and the German Hitler is also
relying on a social-reform programme which
lie and his followers are advocating
all over the Fatherland. The Nazis
are leaving the police to squelch sedi-
UNBEATABLE.
“Is your man resourceful?”
“Resourceful! Why, he pawned the engagement ring to
get married, on.”
tion, and are concentrating on political
action, which is the only kind that produces
results in Nordic countries. Hitler may be
leading the biggest party in Parliament* this
year. _ He would never have done it by
breaking up the meetings of the “Reds”
(Bolshies), “Blacks” (Clericals) and “Gol-
dens” (.Tews) and others of whom he disap-
proves; Neither would Mussolini. No brand
of Fascism can live by castor oil alone.
BALLADE OF BORES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am not of that brainy group
Who count statistics as a treat
And brandish, with excited whoop,
Strange tables on a printed sheet
To prove that something must deplete
(Or augment, as the case may be)
The present parity for wheat.
I have not got the master-key.
I only crave a tranquil stoup
To mollify my noontide meat,
But evermore the gabbling troupe
Infest the places where I eat;
Why should my mastication's beat—
A more important thing to me —
Be broken by their noisome bleat?
I have not got the master-key.
Perhaps I seem a nincompoop
Who shuns discussion’s dust and heat
When, yawning like a fowl with roup,
I try to find a distant seat
From such as hanker to repeat
Their litany, “A fool could see”—,
Like some demented parrakeet.
I have not got tlie master-key.
Envoy.
Prince, bootless talk makes spirits droop
And drives folk to felo de sc;
Words cannot lift one from the soup,
But work may be the master-key.
N.s.w.
AHAB MULDOON.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
HmanUuniuiUMiuwMHaHHHnmiUMiWHMMlNiUulMuaJ
Bulletin Buildings j
252 Georqe Street. i
1 S Y D N E Y if-
eP
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week , one?
Will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and is t e
largest private gallery in Australia. _
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, for Ld years
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars from the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Rev. Edward Morgan Baker, head-
master of The King’s School, Parramatta,
which has been keeping its centenary, is
a product of Birmingham and Keble Col-
lege, Oxford, where the ecclesiastical flavor
is stronger than at any kindred seat of
learning. Baker, however, may be regarded
as an exponent of Charles Kingsley s' ‘ Mus-
cular Christianity”; he found time to wm
his “blue” as a Rugby footballer and. fol-
lowed it up by becoming an international
one, playing for three years for England.
He was a curate and a vicar of several
Midland parishes before coming to Aus-
tralia in 1912 to be Warden of St. John s
College, Brisbane. The King’s School has
had him at the helm for the last 12 years.
He is 57.
After coming safely . through Gallipoli,
Prance and Flanders in the war years, Jim
Maloney met death in a bush-fire. He was
trying to save O’Shea’s sawmill at Erica
(Vic.). Maloney was one of the most
experienced bushmen in Gippsland.
A notable journalist in his day was Ben-
jamin Hoare, who has passed out at 89.
He made his name principally as leader-
writer for the “Age” for 32 years. While
David Syme was in command it was a de-
light to Hoare to co-operate with his chief
in directing the Liberal Governments of the
day what to do, and his style, if ponderous
at times, was compelling and forcible enough
to make him the dread of many a politician.
Before joining the Syme sheet, Hoare was
on the long-deceased Melbourne “Daily Tele-
graph,” the “Geelong Times” (which he
founded) and the “Colac Reformer.” A
devout Catholic, he was about to attend
morning mass when he collapsed from heart
failure. One son is a priest and a daughter
is a nun.
John D. Moore, Sydney artist and archi-
tect, who is about to marry Gladys Owen,
loves to design on the grand scale. He has
entered designs for most of the big archi-
tectural competitions of recent, years, ana
his work is always among the highly placed.
He won second place in the Anzac
Memorial competition, and has recently won
the prize with his design for the R.O.
Cathedral at Canberra. He is assistant to
Professor Wilkinson in the architecture
classes at the Uni., he is on the committee
JOHN D. MOORE , Sydney architect and
painter.
of the Society of Artists, and some of the
most graceful North Shore homes were first
visioned in his brain.
Whatever may have been the literary
merits of Edgar Wallace, dead at 56, his
amazing industry and versatility and his
ability to hit the public taste with West Afri-
can novels, mystery stories, shockers, plays
and what not, poured out in ceaseless pro-
fusion, put him in a class of his own a n( l
brought him a rich return. The story of
his own life and of the gifts that lifted him
to celebrity and fortune was probably as
absorbing as anything he wrote—Foundling
child adopted by a porter, newspaper-runner,
private of the line, war correspondent, jour-
nalist, best-seller —the most riotous imagina-
tion could hardly beat that record. Pro-
bably Wallace was essentially a journalist,
and would have remained one all. his life if
he hadn’t found a much more remunerative
outlet for his talents. In his later years
there weren’t many things he didn't touch;
he even appeared as an Independent Liberal
candidate for Blackpool at last year’s general
elections with an endorsement from Lloyd
George, somewhat nullified by a delightfully
frank admission from himself that he knew
nothing about politics. Wallace polled over
19,000 votes, but that didn’t amount to
much against his opponent’s 53,000. Still
he probably got his money’s worth even out
of that experience.
J. C. Gates is the latest non-political
appointee to the board of the Vic. Savings
Bank. For 40 years or thereabouts he was
manager of James Spicer and Sons, subse-
quently amalgamated into Detmolds, the
stationery people. He is director of a raort
J. C, GATES, new trustee Vic. Savings
Bank.
of smaller cos. and is on numerous charit-
able committees; Billy Hughes called for
Gates when he wanted the business side ot
the Repatriation Department inquired into.
Tom Molloy, Perth’s evergreen and undis-
courageable fighter of mostly hopeless elec-
tion battles, added another to his stagger-
ingly long list of reverses by contesting the
late Arthur Lovekin’s Leg. Council seat.
Nobody knows for certain, probably not even
the veteran himself, how many times the elec-
tors of one House or the other have rejected
Thomas, but he has been a trier on every
possible occasion for 38 years. He is a
wealthy property-owner, with a special lean-
ing for hotels and theatres, and has been
Mayor of Perth.
Lance Stirling, the marathon president of
S. Aus. Leg. Council, has been re-elected
president of S.A. Agricultural Society. He
has the unique record of having occupied
the same position 40 years back.
Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” though a good Australian all his long
life, has always had an affection for Corn-
wall, the old home 0 f the family. The Royal
Institution of that county lias just elected
him its president in succession to Lord I al-
mouth.
The years are beginning to tell on L. A.
Adamson, who has been headmaster of Wes-
ley College,, Melbourne, since 1902, and he has
been granted three months’ spell. Adamson,
now 72, is a Manxman by birth and a pro-
duct of Rugby and Oxford. He was called
to the English Bar and admitted tp the
Victorian before he turned schoolmaster;
incidentally, he was the first chairman ot
the Cricket Board of Control.
Major A. E. Wilton, of the Australian
Staff Corps, who died in Melbourne as the
result of a motor-cycle accident, was chief
inspector in the mechanical department of
the Defence Force. One of the first cadets
to enter Dfintroon, he left it in 1914
and was soon in the thick of Gallipoli as
brigade-major of the 4th Infantry Brigade.
Later he was transferred to France with
the 12th Brigade, and won his D.S.O. there.
After the war he became instructor in
tactics at Dijntroon, and was specially
selected for three years’ training in mechan-
ised warfare in England. He was an
inventor of note, one of his devices being
a trailer capable of transporting an 18-
pounder gun at 50 m.p.h., the trials of which
were only completed a few days before his
death.
Peter Findlay, a widely-known pioneer of
the Darling Downs who recently died in
Brisbane, was that unusual person a pro-
hibitionist Scot. He reached Queensland
70 years ago, going first to the Roma coun-
try and later to the Downs. Education
was not as easy to come by then as now,
and the young Scot started a night school
for his fellow station- and farm-hands, m
addition to conducting temperance meetings.
Under the auspicfes of the late J. T. Bell, he
opened up the Moola scrub, and took an
active part in settling it with families from
the Snowy River, converting the scrub land
into rich ’ dairying country. Finally retir-
ing to Brisbane, he ran a prohibitionist
newspaper for some years and opened a. free
library for the children of his neighborhood,
dying at 92, full of years and honor.
Dr. T. P. Fry, who has been appointed
by the Senate of Sydney Uni. to its board
of LL.B. examiners, is a Queenslander who
became a Doctor of Laws at 26. A passion
for research took him from Queensland Uni.
through Oxford and Harvard; at both he
won degrees, while Strasburg University and
the Acadamie de Droit International at The
Hague have bestowed diplomas on him.
Called to the English Bar, he was admitted
to that of Queensland in September last. He
is a son of J. P. Fry, member for Kurilpa.
Sir Stafford Cripps, K.C., whom the
Lang Government has retained for the Privy
Council case which is to determine the fate
of the N.S.W. Leg. Council, is one of the
intelligentsia wlio_ have found their way
into the British Labor party. He is the
youngest son of Baron Parmoor, who showed
him the way, the Baron having been Lord
President of the Council in Ramsay Mac-
Donald’s first -and second Ministries. The
son, a “silk” like his father and grandfather
before him, was one of the very few pro-
minent Labor members who survived the
landslide of last year’s general elections;
he managed tq hang on to his Bristol seat
by a very narrow majority, and was men-
tioned as the possible Opposition leader
for a week or two. A Labor party, includ-
ing a knot of impassioned Glydesiders, led
by the son of a nobleman would have been
an inspiriting spectacle; still, Sir Oswald
Mosley, the wealthy baronet, may yet make
history in this direction.
“F.R.”: J. E. Walker, M.L.A. for
Ipswich (Q), is a solicitor (B. 3/2/’32),
a member of the firm of Walker and
Walker; a barrister, also, but his deaf-
ness prevents him appearing in court. His
father was a Congregational minister. It
was not the cocky vote that put him in;
there are few eockies in the electorate.
His reputation as a straightgoer did the busi-
ness—that and his quiet deeds of charity,
in which he has the earnest help of his
wife, a daughter of the late T. B. Cribb,
M.
Died in England, at 52, Sir Arthur Duck-
ham, who was head of the Industrial Mis-
sion that visited Australia in 1928 at the
invitation of the Bruce Government. He
was an engineer and scientific investigator
of note, whose services were utilised during
the war by the Ministry of Munitions;
later lie was Director-General of Aircraft
Production.
Edgar Hamilton, who was appointed the
other week to the chairmanship of the
N. Milk Board, is not lacking in know-
lege of the juice of the cow. He graduated
at Hawkesbury, and the full diploma and
special dairy certificate which he got w r hile
there is now 34 years old. For eight years
Hamilton managed .Cumbenoona, a large cow-
cockying enterprise near Albury. For another
10 years lie was a N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment stock inspector, with headquarters
at Moss Yale. The Dairy Farmers’ Co-opera-
tive Co. then made him its manager, and
he remained that until the co. linked up
E. A. HAMILTON, chairman N.S.W. Milk
Board.
with the Camden Vale and the Farmers
and Dairymen’s Milk cos., when he was made
a joint manager of the amalgamation with
J. S. Haddin.
The Westralian Leg. Council has. been keep-
ing its centenary; it started business in
1831 with the Swan River Settlement’s first
Governor and four permanent officials, in-
eluding a military officer. The present
Council has one member who _ first entered
it nearly 50 years ago, Knight Edward
Wittenoom, grandson of the first Colonial
chaplain. Wittenoom was an M.L.C. from
’B3 to ’B5; then he pulled out for nine
years, returning to the House in ’94. Three
years later he went to London as Agent-
General, and, except for his term there he
has been in the House, with the briefest
interludes, ever since.
Alexander Buchan Lane, who a year or so
ago stepped into Bill Atack’s shoes as
A. B. LANE, manager . N.Z. Press Assoc.
manager of the M.L. Press Association, has.
trodden the Inky Way practically all his life.
He was born in Scotland, became a Maori-
lander early, and after many years as a
reporter in Timaru, Invercargill and Christ-
church rose to the editorship of the Christ-
church “Star” 10 years ago, being translated
from that job to the news editorship of the
Christchurch “Times” in 1924. His main job
nowadays—the disciplining of the associa-
tion’s scores of correspondents, all staff men
on newspapers and at times torn between two
loyalties—calls for a lot of tact and under-
standing. Lane’s long experience of the
trials, of the men he has to shepherd helps
him to guard against harsh judgments, and
he is promoting a better spirit in what for
years has been a service crammed to the
neck with grievances.
Kent Hughes, who succeeds R. G. Men-
zies, K.C., as president of the Young Vic.
Nats.’ group of the U.A.P. is a Rhodes
scholar who arrived in the Vic. Assembly
in 1927. Four of his five years, in the
House have been spent in Opposition, but
his turn will come.
A report of the case mentions that
Geoffrey Wladislas Vaile Potocki de Mon-
talk, who has been sentenced at the Old
Bailey to six months’ imprisonment for
obscene libel, “claims to be a. New
Zealander.” This is so, and the linguist-
poet, as he calls himself, has always man-
aged to get his full share of limelight.
Geoff, before he left M.L. —as he phrased it,
“to take the golden road to Samarkand” —
expressed himself as disgusted with the
“land of White Savages and All Blacks.”
His eccentricities notwithstanding, W. H.
Davies and Humbert Wolfe rhapsodised over
his volume, “Surprising Songs.”
Arthur Perry, who died at Manly last
week, at 64, was one of the Ma State’s best-
knotvn and most respected stipendiary magi-
strates. He entered the service 46 years
ago, but it was not until 1926 that he
reached the top rank. No stipendiary was
better liked by his brothers of the profes-
sion.
“Verax”: Major Thomas, under whom
J. T. Jennings, M.H.R., served in the Boer
War (B. 3/2/’32), defended not only
Morant but all the other Bushveldt Carbi-
neers who appeared in the series of courts-
martial held at Petersburg, Northern Trans-
vaal. Nor did his connection with the case
end there, for he resigned his commission in
the Australian Reserve of Officers to assist
in the movement for the release of Lieut.
Witten, Major-General Hutton having
objected to Thomas disclosing facts relative
to. the courts-martial. Witten was released,
and so the facts were never published, though
Thomas, who had held a commission for ten
years in the N.S.W. Mounted Rifles prior to
going on active service, lost his rank in the
Reserve.
The Rev. Q. C. Hurt, who has been
appointed Warden of St. John’s College,
Brisbane, in succession to Canon Barrett,
who becomes Dean of St. John’s Cathedral,
was for some years a member of the Brother-
hood of St. Barnabas in North Queensland.
An Emmanuel (Cam.) scholar and class-
man, he was ordained in 1925.


1835
ẁ
1932
Q£ BANK
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALASIA:
394-96 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Superintendent: George D. Healy.
-/"’it, . j.
( 3 * y.
L*l
> •>>
l^s,
"V;
ss
97 arranging money facilities
for Australians travelling abroad^-.
Reliable information and advice on the best arrangements to make for transfer
of funds eases the traveller’s mind and speeds the conduct of his affairs. The
Bank of Australasia gladly renders this service from any of its branches in the
principal cities and towns of Australia and New Zealand. Two London offices,
and agents and correspondents in all parts of the world, are at the service of
clients of the Bank. i
0
Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter 1835.)
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter.
£4,500,000
4,475,000
4,500,000
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
Julv, £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 94,105 29,750 12J p.c. =31,250 33,105 104,110
Loss.
1921.. 13,746 30,000 74 „ „ 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 7} „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 7i „ „ 18,760 6,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 7% „ „ 18,750 3,571 93,588
1927.. 61,756 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 756 94.344
1928.. 63,550 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 2.550 96.894
1929.. 59,875 36,000 7$ „ ~18,750 5,125 102.019
Transferred to Pension Fund, £5000.. 97,019
1930.. 27,970 36,000 3 p.c. = 7,500 81,489
Written off, £25,247 .. .. .. 56,242
Loss. Deficit.
1931. .115,756 Nil Nil 59,514
With the development of the Australian
textile trade, the growth of the specialty
house, chain store and other retailing
methods, the softgoods wholesaler has seen
much of his business slip away. So, to
make up his volume of trade, he has had
to gather a multiplicity of small orders, thus
increasing overhead as well as credit risks,
while recent casualties in the rag trade have
flooded the market with stocks at cut prices.
Last year’s developments made the break
with the past more complete. The tariff,
exchange and landing charges added as much
as 299 p.c. to the warehouse cost of dress
goods, to quote one group, and price recessions
gobbled up profit margins and more besides,
while bad debts exceeded expectations. Thus
a trading loss of £115,756. including £24,534
on account of exchange, showed up in P., L.
and B.’s accounts, and for the first time
shareholders went hungry. Also £25,247 was
struck off the book value of reserve-fund
investments, . reducing the item to £81,683,
and leaving the aggregate book value of net
assets £59,514 short of paid capital at July
31 last —goodwill figures-at £161,192.
In front of the £550,000 of share capital,
which includes £600,000 of 6 p.c. cum. prefs.,
there is £230,000 of 4-J p.c. first-mort-
gage debentures, redeemable in 1950 at a
premium of 10 p.c. So £830,000 of the
share and debenture money is costing the
co. 5.6 p.c. p.a. Whether the co. will hence-
forth be able to find satisfactory employment
for all existing funds in the business is un-
certain. One factor which has operated
against wholesalers has been the extrava-
gance of their premises, and the problem
of making the circulating assets earn enough
threatens to become much more acute. The
co.’s future will largely depend upon the
extent to which it is able to work in with
Australian industries.
Last year the board worked down stocks
and book debts, and lightened the amount
coming to trade creditors by £222,684: —
1921 1926 1930 1931
Ordinary .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,0-00 £250,000
Preference .. 500,000 600,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures .. 233,642 233.642 233,642 233,642
Sundry creditors 682,664 487,675 367,575 144,891
Freeholds, etc. 341,901 383,285 378,621 377,406
Stock.. .. 959,713 678,303 §92,215 405,337
Book debts .. 305,085 509,457 375,731 298,529
Investments and
cash .. 125,542 121,233 104,139 87,747
Thus, when the books last closed, more or
less liquids, including stocks, exceeded the
debenture and trade debts by £413,080, a
slip of £157,788 during the twelvemonth.
Prices have firmed slightly since the close of
accounts, and the exchange has eased 5 p.c.,
but trade remains sluggish and profits shy.
Much obviously depends upon the soundness
of both the stock figures and debtors’
balances.
At next balancing date there will be
£60,000 (which is approximately equal to
the average net earnings for the five years
to the close of accounts in ’29) coming to
the 6 p.c. cum. prefs.—there are 350,000
A’s and 250,000 B’s; the div. on the latter
is free of English income tax up to 6s. in
the £. The net tangible backing (book value)
amounts to 455. 2d. and 335. 6d. for the A
and B shares respectively, and 12s. 4d. for
the ords. All three classes of scrip are listed
on Australian ’Changes, but they have not a
very active market.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Written Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends'. Off. Reserves.
1922.. 87,241 j } 4 ’ 408 440 ’ 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed, £100,000.. 547,885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
1925. .116,698 | 7 i p .c.=45, 00 ° \ 65>600 454,133
1926. .187,683 10 p.c. = 105,000 60,000 476,866
1927.. 99,665 | y^ f ' 7^ p -^7 45,00 ° | 23,181 508,350
1928.. 124,192 lOp.c. = 105,000 527,522
Hidden reserves disclosed, £424,261.. 951,783
Fixed assets written down, £377,522.. 574,261
1929.. 188,228 15 p.c. = 157,500 21,000 583,989
1930. . 50,360 ( 5 P-C. =f 3 0,000 \ ? 200 597 149
l Ord. Nil i
Previous years’ taxation, etc., £128,101.. 469,048
Written off shares in other cos., £65,606.. 403,442
Loss.
1931.. 67,670 | \ 335,772
With large stocks on hand, markets dull
and prices low and still falling the cement
works at Cockle Creek shut down for the
first half of the term; the Central mine at
the Barrier has been idle since the end of
1930, when lead dropped below £l5 and silver
was fetching no more than Is. 3d. an ounce,
and the furnaces at the zinc plant at Seaton
Carew (Eng.) have not been in full blast
since January, 1931. The year’s operations
resulted in a loss of £67,670; the first thing
of its kind since the beginning of this cen-
tury. Sales (£448,594) slipped £555,334,
of which £372,000 was on account of metals,
£95,000 fertiliser and £BB,OOO cement. More-
over, the bill for disputed taxation for the
years 1918 to 1924, which the British Gov-
ernment figured at £156,476, came in and
was charged against the £395,336 which had
been reserved for the purpose. Also, £65,606
was struck off the book value of the co.’s
interest in Nantymwyn Mines Ltd., reducing
the figure to £55,200. This is a low-grade
show in Wales; it was bought in 1925, when
lead and zinc were fetching £35 and £36
respectively, the idea being to ensure supplies
of spelter at Seaton Carew after the Board
of Trade contract ran out in 1930.
The year’s net reduction in reserves was
£261.377. But after paying the previous
year’s pref. div. (£30,000), the more or less
liquid surplus slipped £306,433: —
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Liquid £ £ £ £
assets 1,034,948 1,233,001 1,097,991 739,222
Liabilities 519,527 105,684 76,017 22,681
Surplus £515,421 £1,127,317 £1,022,974 £716,541
That includes the co.’s interest in the Welsh
property, but leaves out of the reckoning
£BO,OOO, the approximate figure at which dis-
puted taxation to the close of last accounts
has been assessed. Eliminating these two
items, surplus liquids were £19.659 short of
the pref. capital at June 30 last.
The next table, showing output at Cockle
Creek, illustrates the slackness on the indus-
trial side:—
Cement
Sulph. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 .. 20,770 33,879* 42,884
1928 . . 20,541 37,919* 68,375
1929 . . 22,997 43,954* 52,985
1930 . . 16,507 34,351* 38,338
1931 .. 15,944 30,138* 17,876
•High grade.
The cement plant, which has a capacity of
100,000 tons p.a., stopped again after the
accounts closed. The roasting of concern
trates for the Electrolytic Zinc Co. kept acid
production up, but sales lagged, and condi-
tions in the primary industries affected
returns from super.
It is mainly to the revival of mining activi-
ties that shareholders look for satisfactory
divs. The 73,438 tons of crudes raised dur-
ing the last term, as against 133,338 in the
previous year, assayed 11.30 z. silver, 14.3
p.c. lead and 14.4 p.c. zinc. The metal con-
tents of the concentrates and percentage of
recovery compare as follows: —
Leadies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
iooq f 1,333,395 oz. 16,312 tons 2,147 tons
53.7 oz. 65.7 p.c. 8.6 p.c.
. OOA ) 1,216,773 oz. 16,407 tons 2,004 tons
193 U.. 48.9 oz. 65.9 p.c. 8.0 p.c.
loci S 693,761 oz. 9,113 tons 912 tons
63.5 oz. 70.3 p.c. 7.0 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc,
1000 S 272,671 oz. 1,563 tons 18,635 tons
ly^y ’- ) 7.3 oz. 4.2 p.c. 50.1 p.c.
loan ) 186,943 oz. 1,062 tons 16,366 tons
ly<sU -*, ( 6.7 oz. 3.3 p.c. 50.2 p.c.
10 0, } 74,856 oz. 395 tons 9,043 tons
lyaA ”| 4.4 oz. 2.3 p.c. 52.7 p.c.
Last year’s improvement means a reduction
in costs equal to 6s. per ton of crudes. With
the price of silver over Is. 6d. per ounce
and of lead over £l5 per ton, and with ex-
change as it is, the reopening of the Central
mine is warranted, the chairman says. But
the price of lead (now £l4 10s.) is very un-
certain and without strength, so the co. is
in no hurry to stai-t up at the Barrier. Ore
reserves are put at 707,834 tons; thus there
is about five years’ work measured up at
the normal rate of extraction.
There is £1,050,000 of capital to be fed—
£6oo,ooo of 10 p.c. non-cum. prefs., which
participate with the ords. in any higher rate
and have priority as to capital, and the
balance ords. The market prices the prefs.
at 13s. and the ords. at 10s. 4d.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 27,029 6 p,c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 50,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
Profits.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts tlie falling away of demand in
Britain, the German embargo on frozen beef,
heavy shipments of chilled from the Argen-
tine and Brazil and the reappearance of live
cattle from Canada on the English markets
all helped to depress the price for Australian
frozen to its lowest level for many years,
and make sales difficult. Also, the price
obtainable for hides and tallow made it un-
profitable to pack them; the co.’s contract
with the U.S. Arms 7 in Manila passed to a
competitor in North China, and the Cold
Storage Co. in Singapore, in which the
Q.M.E. is interested, is pressing for reduc-
tions which cannot be made.
The co. made its Eagle Farm works (Q.)
available for the storage of butter, thus gain-
ing a little relief. Also the exchange pre-
mium helped; still a loss of £5296 showed up,
raising aggregate losses over the last 11 years
£21,853 higher than the aggregate net profits.
Rigidity of local costs in relation to world
prices is the trouble. Until some relief in
this respect is obtained, and until holders
of the big leasehold runs “out back” in
Queensland and the Territory receive more
encouragement, the lot of the Australian
beef exporter promises to continue a difficult
one. The old Q.M.E., led by Robert Philp
and other men of vision, had plunged into
the pastoral 'business and done fairly well.
In 1915 the old co., wdiose capital and re-
serves totalled £369,862, was split in two,
with paid capitals aggregating £873,306. The
pastoral properties passed to Australian
Stock Breeders, and the meatworks at
Townsville and Brisbane to the present co.
Finances have remained comfortable
enough, as balance-sheet figures show
1923. 1929. 1930 1931.
Paid capital.. £654,976 £654,976 £654,976 £654,975
Creditors .. 119,806 27,227 24,392 17,610
Property, live-
in other cos. 425,798 422,034 438,977 423,532
Stock.. .. 85,557 65,875 73,372 35,243
Stores . . 45,865 25,431 24,068 20,180
Debtors k cash 270,688 227,438 198,898 244,282
The year's reduction of £15,445 in the book
value of fixed assets and livestock, and of
£42,107 in unsold products and stores,
enabled £6782 to be snipped off the amount
coming to trade creditors and book debts
and cash to be increased by £45,384.
On the market 6s. is asked for the pound
shares, which are covered by 21s. 7d. in net
tangibles, the real worth of which is their
profit-earning capacity.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., ‘ Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 10,577 10 p.c. = 5000 5,577 26,641
1927.. 10,580 10 „ „ 5000 5,580 32,221
1928.. 16,145 10 „ „ 6000 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ „ 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9 „ „ 6300 278 52,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
The underwriting loss for the year was
£11,132, but £7195 gathered in interest and
rents reduced the net loss to £3937. Still,
finances are snug, and underwriting is a
business in which results need to be averaged.
For the half-dozen years to the close of lasi,
accounts the net surplus was £17,551, to
which interest and rents had added £39,934.
Since only £29,293 of the lot had been dis-
tributed, the board felt justified in taking
£2BOO of the £28,192 that remained to pay a
4 p.c. div., making an average of 8.8 p.c.- for
the six years since the co. began to deal
direct with the public and spread to Mel-
bourne and Adelaide. For 17 years before
that it was solely a reinsurance concern,
sharing the well-established Mercantile’s
risks.
Underwriting performances compare as
follows
Loss Rxes,
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59,8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 60.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
The slip of £30,204 in the year’s net pre-
miums was due to the shrinkage in workers'
compensation, motor-eai' and marine busi-
ness. Losses were exceptionally heavy, but
the management kept the growth in control-
lable expenditure down to £1 per cent.
Though interest reduction legislation will
reduce the return from investments (10.2
p.c. on capital last year), prospects of a
lift in the div. seem bright enough as soon
as conditions become more settled.
Policy-holders could see reserves equal to
53 p.c. of the year’s net premiums when the
books closed, and that is a bit more than is
usually considered adequate. The funds are
in this form :
1926. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £50,000 £60,000 £70,000 £ 70,000
Liabilities.. .. 20,777 16,194 18,447 18,368
Freeholds .. .. 2,540 2,540 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 23,910 26,860 41,080 41,076
Debentures . . 6,000 6,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities.. 36,666 50,039 61,925 61,912
Book debts . . 5,728 5,890 4,886 4,888
Cash, etc 29,073 34,731 30,945 21,645
Shareholders can be called upon to dredge
up another £130,000 should more be wanted.
The pound shares paid to 7s. fetch 7s. 9d.
on the market. The return at that price
would be 7.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div basis. The
backing is 11s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920.. 52,981 94 p.c. = 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „ „ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „ „ 48,733 9,511 33,103
1923.. 50,964 8 „„ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „„ 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „„ 49,867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927. . 50,488 8 „ „ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „ „ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „„ 49,867 58,267
1930. . 39,501 64 „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 ~ „ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Too much notice need not be taken of those
figures. Since the close of accounts at the
end of 1930 £453,332 of capital, of which
£173,278 awaited distribution at Dec. 31, has
been returned to shareholders, leaving the
total now on the register at £170,000 in ss.
shares. Together with £164,548 of dividends,
the money was provided mostly out of ordi-
nary revenue during the last four years;
an extra Id., raising it to 3d., was tacked on
to the cash (casual) fare of the services
which the Harbor Bridge, to be opened next
month, may either wipe - out or vastly
reduce. These services comprise the Milson’s
Point, Lavender Bay and vehicular ferries,
which have been the co.’s chief profit-earners.
It was to offset the probable loss of capi-
tal through anticipated shrinkage in the
value of the fleet that the ships and other
fixed assets were so vigorously written down,
and liquids accumulated and distributed.
The next comparison of balance-sheet figures,
shows exactly what has happened:—
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £623,332 £623,332 £623,332 £170,000
Liabilities .. 73,609 65,520 49,861 47,217
Landed property 115,072 42,820 37,829 37,260
Ship property 331,236 212,413 136,689 58,932
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 50,772 26,278 16,472 6,657
Plant & machinery 8,811 6,696 6,012 5,411
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,097 13,725 10,015 9,968
Shares in other
cos. .. 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 29,384 24,018 11,449 6,324
Public securities, ■,
etc. . . 113,741 330,528 420,197 55,042
Cash . . .. 2,498 8,672 2,325 2,516
The 1931 figures exclude the £173,278
of capital awaiting distribution at the close
of accounts. During the year three hulks
were sold; yet at Dec. 31 the fleet totalled
50 as against 51 vessels four years earlier.
Meanwhile the book value of the lot had
been reduced by £272,304, leaving it at
£58,932. Altogether the book value of fixed
assets (£108,260 at Dec. 31) has been
lowered by £397,631 since the end of 1027.
This was‘due partly to the Milson’s Point
resumption, on account of which the co.
received £78,000. The net result of transac-
tions in connection with the fleet has not
been disclosed, but most of the balance was
apparently charged against earnings.
There is nothing to worry about in the
liquid position, movements in which further
reflect the writing down and return of
capital:—
1997 IQ9Q IQSO 1991
Liquids . . £145,623 £363,119 £433,971 £63,8§2
Liabilities .. 73,609 65,520 49,861 47,217
Surplus .. £72,014 £297,599 £384,110 £16,665
Thus, excluding shares in other cos. and
fuel, the more or less liquid surplus has
slipped £55,349 over the last four years.
Meantime, however, partly by the sale r of
assets, £453,332 has been distributed in
cash, apart from dividends.
Interest now centres chiefly in the co.’s
prospects of earning satisfactory divs. on the
£170,000 of capital that remains. On this
point the board comforts shareholders with
the following assurance:—
The extent to which your co. will be affected by
the diversion of traffic from the , steamers it is im-
possible to determine with accuracy at the moment,
but your investment in the business has been kept
intact, and should in the future produce a satis-
factory return.
Provided the co. can give cheaper service than
(“Wild Cat]’ continued on page ltj.)


PUBLIC FINANCE
Until this has been straightened out
private prosperity is not possible.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
February analyses the whole posi-
tion, and shows what has been done
and what remains to do.
Current balance-sheets dissected
by a staff of accountants, whose
work is at your service.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.M.S. : If safety of capital is important,
leave it where it is till the sky clears. .. .D.C.C.:
(1) and (2) The industry, especially the bond-
financed section, is heavily overcapitalised; pros-
• peets of satisfactory returns are poor. (3) No
established market. Write to secretary. .. ,C.A.R.:
A reasonable risk. The eo., which has yet to prove
itself, and will have the monopoly of a public utility,
which means that only moderate divs. need be looked
for N.G.: A gamble with the odds against you.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coiuson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-U9 3
Detonators
Cartridges
’t&SZSFi-
PIONEER BELTING
Gives Greater Pulley Grip.
BECAUSE Pioneer Leather Belting gives greater
pulley grip, it insures maximum efficiency on
the largest ratios. Pioneer Belting also has up to
six times greater wearing qualities under all work-
ing conditions. There is a special waterproof Pioneer
Belt to suit each type of drive. Expert advice
without obligation.
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON
limited
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET, PERTH.
TASMANIA: CHAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET. HOBART. ■
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA ’ brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has bad forty-five years
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.' - H. V. Douglass, Manager.
the Government can give w T ith the Bridge,
and provided also the Government. permits
the service to continue in competition with
its railways, the Milson’s Point and Lavender
Bay runs may not entirely disappear and the
co.’s other services may suffer less than was
originally anticipated. Further, there is the
holding (in at £107,000) in the Harbor, Land
and Transport Co., returns from which con-
tributed to last year’s distribution. In 192 i
the pup paid 10 p.c.; but 8 p.c. was spoken
of for the future; 8 p.c. would be equal
to 5 p.c. on the parent’s capital as it now
stands. _
The market prices the ss. shares at 7s. 9cl.
At that price the return would be 5.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Of course, the sale
of surplus tonnage may make a difference.
Hotel Mayfair, Ltd.
In 1927 Bayswater Pty., a Melbourne
group headed by Norman Mendes, bought
some of the old properties fronting Bays-
water-road at the head of William-street.
This is the busiest part of King’s Cross.
Darlinghurst, and is in the centre of a popu-
lar flat and accommodation house area,
within five minutes of the heart of the city.
The idea was to put up a large hotel replete
with all modern conveniences, and to offer
special service at a moderate tariff. There was
delay and the outlook changed. But the pro-
moters now consider that the time is ripe
to push ahead with the venture. So the
name has been changed to the present title,
the public is asked to put up £152,000 in £1
shares,- of which 50,000 have been under-
written at 10 p.c., and a first mortgage of
£i 30,000 at 6 p.c. has been arranged with
the City Mutual Life, subject to 190,000
shares being subscribed and allotted. Ihe
existing paid capital is £62,000, representing
the co.’s equity in the property; 80,009
shares are held in reserve.
It is proposed to erect a new 14-storeyed
building with about 220 bedrooms, all of
which are to be equipped with private bath-
room and toilet, etc. There will be the usual
bars, bottle department and other public
rooms, etc., of course, and the plans provide
for eight lock-up shops on the ground floor.
When complete, the cost of the property is
figured at £278,000. A license is to be trans-
ferred from a hotel in Market-street for
£11,500, furnishings are put at £20,000, and
preliminary exes., including underwriting
and £BOOO for the purchase of unexpired
leases, at £24,000. That leaves £10,500 for
working capital and contingencies out of
a proposed share and mortgage capital total-
ling £344,000.
Gross revenue is estimated at £70,041 p.a.
That is on the basis of an 80 p.c. letting at
Ss. 6d. per night for single and 15s. 6d. for
double rooms, and includes £5500 shop ren-
tals. Exes., including £10,432 (= ss. 6d. m
the £) for taxation, are figured at £42,534,
leaving a clear £27,507, equal to 12.8 p.c.
on £214,000 of capital. .
Of course, the figures are only estimates.
Actual results will depend upon many things,
including the management’s ability to make
the hotel popular, and that in turn will
partly depend upon the quality of the service.
Service and the popularity for residential
purposes of the area in which the hotel will
be situated are the main pillars upon which
the prospectus rests its claims. Still, at the
moment, hotels generally are having a thin
time, and with available accommodation well
in excess of demand, competition promises to
be very keen. On the other hand, building
costs have fallen greatly; it was lately esti-
mated that one large Sydney block could
have been put up now for £40,000 less than
it actually cost. The co. will get the bene-
fit of this; and it is hoped that by the time
the place is ready prosperity will have
returned. , _ , T
On the board are Norman Mendes, L. L.
Meek and W. G. Mac Diarmid.
Mercantile Bank Liquidation
Though the “bank” never opened its doors,
some of the directors, who were appointed in
an advisory capacity for two years or there-
abouts, are actually claiming for the balance
of their fees (amounting to over £2000)
after the co. went into liquidation. And so
the sorry business goes on. The action for
£lBl7 taken against Percy Freeman, one of
the promoters, ended in a compromise in the
Equity Court; Freeman brought a counter-
claim against the co. The liquidator is now
making a call on the unfortunate ord. share-
holders for the whole uncalled balance of
their £5 shares. Most or all of this is re-
quired to pay the co.’s debts and to repay the
pref. capital.
Some of the pref. shareholders are. not
escaping scot-free either. Unpaid premiums
amount to £605. But it looks as though they
will get most of their capital back. Including
interest at 8 p.c. to the date of liquidation,
their combined claims amount to to ~i.
Other creditors, on present e^ ima t. es i
figure somewhere between £llOO and £3799,
depending upon wdiether certain claims are
recognised by the Master in Equity. Costs
of liquidation are put at £lOOO.
Cash amounting to about £9OO is the only
asset apart from the unpaid pref. premiums
and uncalled ord. capital. At the date the
winding-up petition was presented, paid capi-
tal was £16,475 in 2332 8 p.c. (fixed) cum.
prefs., 3773 “A” participating prefs. and
4262 ords., all £5 shares.
Silver-lead Stocks
During the last couple of months the two
more important factors affecting the earnings
of the big mines at the Barrier have been
the reduction in the exchange on London and
the drop in the price of metals. At Dec. • >
the London spot price of lead was £l5 Is. 3d.
and of spelter £l4 7s. 6d., equal to £l9
11s. Bd. and £lB 13s. 9d. respectively m Aus-
tralian currency, after allowing for exchange
at 30 p.c. premium. At Feb. 13 lead was
fetching £l4 16s. 3d. and spelter *l4 in
London ; at 25 p.c. premium the Australian
equivalents were £lB 10s. 3d. and £l7 Ir-
respectively. Thus the effective drop m the
price to ‘Australian producers has been
21s. sd. for lead and 235. 9d. for spelter.
Mining operations for the 12 months to
the end of June, 1931, resulted in a loss ot
£78,843 at the North and a loss of £00,442
at the South. Production figures for these
two cos. were as follows: —
Lead, tons. Silver, oz. Zinc, tons.
North •• 43,879 2,614,683 7086*
South .. . . 48,258 1,902,004 9324*
*No zinc concentrates were produced for the nine
months to April 20, 1931.
However, in terms of Australian currency,
current prices exceed average prices for the
12 months referred to by approximately 225.
for lead, 28s. for spelter and sd. for silver
—the last an important by-product now
worth over 2s. an ounce in Commonwealth
notes. So, with metal prices and exchange
as they are, and on the basis of last year s
production, mining should show a small profit.
But until prices strengthen, or costs can
be further reduced, dividends will depend
mainly upon returns from investments.
During its last financial year the North
gathered £158,772, or 4s. 6d. per share from
investments, and the South £115,7u(J, ov
2s. lid. per share. North’s scrip at 6is. 6d,
would return 6 p.c. on the basis of an
annual div. of 4s. per share. South s at
465. 9d. would yield 5.4 p.c. on the basis of
a 2s. 6d. distribution.
Tanami Pty., N.L., is a Brisbane float
to be incorporated in N. S. Wales. Nominal
is £10,500 in £1 shares, of which the ven-
dors, Tanami Options Syndicate, take 2000
paids, together with £lOOO cash. Of the
balance, 5000 are offered. The co. will
take over the Syndicate’s options m Central
Australia, instal a rock-breaker and rein-
force the present five-head battery an
Empire mill, thus enabling from 50 to 60
tons of ore to be treated daily. The suction
gas-engine and vertical boiler on the pro-
perty are capable of driving the entire plant,
and'there is plenty of water in the 185 ft.
shaft on the old Reward claim. The field
has been worked sporadically for years, but
its isolation and the difficulties of trans-
port. now largely overcome by the motor-
truck, have stood in the way of develop-
ment. Dr. H, I. Jensen estimated that in
the exposed portion of tlie three main lodes
there are 60,000 tons of loz. stone to treat.
The opening up of the formations is ex-
pected to disclose at least 100,000 tons of
the same value, and much iarger quantities
of loz. stone.
~** * *
Eureka Lead Gold Sluicing is a Victorian
show in 20,000 10s. shares, of which the
vendor takes 8500 paids, together with £lOOO ;
the other 11,500, called to 3s. each, are offered.
The co. is to work a lease of 110 acres
along the old Eureka lead, and its tributary,
the Rotten lead, at Ballarat. The Eureka
was opened out as long ago as 1852, and
was worked by small parties who sank shafts
and drove on the gutter. A lot of ground
was left untouched, and it is claimed that
much of this is payable, and little more
than 20ft. deep.
$ * * v
Cradle Creek Co. has started gold-mining
on the Lisle field (Tas.) on a fairly large
scale. Samples have averaged ldwt. to the
yard, and it is reckoned that by hydraulic-
ing good profits can be won. In the early
’eighties over 250,0090 z. of alluvial was
taken from this field, but the source of the
gold remains a mystery.
Federation Tin, the English co. formed to
work the extensive tin deposits at the foot
of Mt. Heemskirk, six miles from Zeehan,
on the west coast of Tas., is now in the
hands of a receiver for debenture-holders. A
hydro-electric plant, tramway and ore treat-
ment mill were erected in 1928. The work
made off with so much money that not enough
remained for mine development. Efforts
will probably be made to raise fresh capital.
The area of stanniferous granite is exten-
sive, and rich patches occur, but generally
the field is low-grade and requires a high
price of tin for profitable operations.
* * * *
News of a rich strike comes from Reef-
ton, on Maoriland’s west coast, where Eng-
lish and local concerns have been working for
the last 50 years. The assay shows soz. to
the ton, and an ounce makes payable working.
Investors are anxious to know the result of
a bulk crushing, and something about the
reef.
* * * *
A new show, the Nokorriai G. M. Co., is
to take over and w r ork the property of the
Nokomai Sluicing Co., Otago (M.L.). There
are 160 acres, of which 88. containing nine
million c. yds., have been bored to go 17d.
per yd. A drag-line excavator will handle
the dirt, and it is guaranteed to deliver
540,000 c. yds. per annum at 64d. per yard.
The co.’s water rights will furnish the 400
horse-power required for the plant. It is the
first time this method of winning gold has
been tried in Maoriland.
£ * ❖
Morton Webber, from Arizona, is inspect-
ing the much-optioned Mararoa leases at
Cue with view to purchase. He comes well
accredited and with a wallet fat with high-
figure dollar-bills. So, should he be pleased
with the prospects, negotiations may pro-
ceed smoothly. Pleased or not, ■he will be
unable to say that Arizona can give Cue any
points in the way of high temperatures.
:\i * ❖ * .
The syndicate of prominent Westralian
mining men, formed to stab the old Lance-
field at depth, has arranged with a local co.
to get on with the job right away. Hopes
are that the existence of 1,000,000 tons of
ore will be pi'oved in addition to the 300,000
tons developed in the old workings. If the
boring does this, and provided values are
right, it is expected that Gt. Boulder will
acquire the property and spend a large sum
on new plant.
*Jj i'i • ❖
Following the example of Golden Horse-
shoe, Lake View and Star (W.A.) recently
had its scrip listed on the Paris bourse, and
is now talking about having its 4s. shares
quoted on Wall-street as well. French in-
vestors, who are great hoarders of mining
scrip, at one time had big wads of Horse-
shoes put away. But they suffered when
the slump came and the co. gave up; its
mine was acquired by Lake View, and an-
other co. bought its mountainous pile of
tailings.
* * * *
Shareholders in Kimberley Options, Edju-
dina, had scarcely finished congratulating
themselves on the £3390 won from milling
400 tons of stone, when they received notice
of a 3d. call. Although the reef is on the
narrow side, it has produced good yields,
which are expected to be repeated from the
next level. But even a mining co. doesn t
get rich through what it wins. It only gets
rich through what it doesn’t spend.
* * * *
The Edna May field is dying hard, like
many others in the West. At a previously
untried point, prospectors Levy and party
raised 55 tons from a 30ft. shaft; the yield
was 970 z. plus 15dwt. in the tailings. This
has caused many prospectors on- more dis-
tant fields to think hard.
* * * *
Recently a new gold find at Toodyay, near
Perth, was proclaimed to be'a good thing,
and specimens said to come from there were
exhibited in shop windows. Now Govern-
ment Geologist Blatchford reports that the
end is apparently in sight. Toodyay is not
far east of the Darling Ranges, m which
colors have been obtained here and there.
* * * *
Every now and then someone declares that
he is about to form a co. to dig for
diamonds at Nullaginc (W.A.), but some-
how lie never does it. The latest declara-
tion is made by a promoter in a London
financial paper.' In the early days of Pil-
bara two fossickers found a few stones, and
more were unearthed in the dry bed of the
Nullagine Creek. Later, small fractured
stones were discovered in the mortar-boxes
of batteries while crushing conglomerates.
Claims were pegged and haphazard digging
followed, but with no luck. Nullagine is
reckoned by some admirers to bear resem-
blance to the diamondiferous country in
Brazil and S. Africa.
* * * *
Amongst the Australian dredges in Malaya
out of commission during January were Aus-
tral Malay’s plants at Pungah, Muang and
Renong, all having completed their quotas.
Alluvial Tin’s seven dredges recovered 357
tons of ore for the month at a cost of
£12,800; the working profit was £17,925.
Compared with the corresponding period of
1930 there was a reduction of 23.5 p.c. in
the world’s supply of tin from March 31 to
November 30, 1931, though exports were
greater than the production quota. Indica-
tions are that excess exports have been since
heavily reduced.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is the Timberlands Woodpulp Co. any
good? (2) How many years before a return
on their bonds is likely? (3) Why doesn’t
it pay bondholders interest like other similar
cos.? (4) Has co. any option to pulp Maori-
land Government forest timber? (5) What
security does Public Trustee, Sydney, hold
for bondholders? (6) Has co. ever issued
a balance-sheet? (7) Any recognised market
for bonds? (8) If co.’s representative sold
bonds under misrepresentation, can pur-
chaser claim return of money? —B3Bo.
(1) As good as most of the others, but
that doesn’t necessarily mean much. (2)
Can’t say; the timber might be useable in,
say, 10 years’ time, but will there be a
profitable market? (3) They don’t all pay
interest; in fact, most of them don’t. (4)
Cannot say; the prospectus we have says
“So far it is too soon for us to arrive at
any definite understanding with the Gov-
ernment.” (5) From £8 to £l2 10s. per
bond, according to date of issue, is said to
have been deposited with the Public
Trustee for the erection of a pulp mill. (6)
Apparently not, though possibly one might
be inspected at the Sydney office. (7) No.
(8) Very doubtful. “Conditions of issue”
are endorsed on the back of the bond. They
are the only terms which bind the co. The
salesman might be sued, but would he be
worth suing?


AS EW SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
This paragraph is intended as a -warning
to a wealthy and eminently respectable man
who aggravates us with the arrogant ex-
pression in his eye eyery time we meet him
in the street. He is large, pompous and
lumbering, and he looks as if he regarded
all the rest of mankind as being lost. He
never drinks anything, nor smokes, nor uses
A HASTY CONCLUSION.
SHORT-SIGHTED MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL: “Girls at all hours! Must
go and inform the Social Purity Society.”
[“Hop.” — 17/12/’92.]
*., , -
cuss expressions, and he is moral to an
awful extent, and needs to be hooped like a
cask to prevent him bursting with the
internal pressure of his own virtue. But
something like five years ago, when he was
more or less unregenerate and his language
cs not so beautifully choice as it is to-day,
he owned a warehouse in a Sydney thorough-
fare, and things were so desperately bad with
him that he contemplated suicide every
time a bill fell due. He even mdde a mark
on his throat to let him know where to
cut it when he had screwed his courage up,
and on another occasion he got up in a
chair and fixed a noosed rope to a nail, and
then got down again. Also he bought
a bottle of poison and threw it out in the
street. Finally, however, it struck him that
he would give up seeking death, and he
bought a large quantity of kerosene instead,
and stowed it in the cellar, along wfith a
mass of wood and shavings and old news-
papers, and then one windy night he left a
candle burning down there and placed it on
top of the” combustibles, so that when it
reached its last flicker, about four hours
after the premises were locked up. the vol-
cano would commence. Then he accidentally
torne( j on the gas, and w T ent honffe to estab-
fish an alibi and perspire in an agony of
suspense. He heaved the slops out of his
teacup on his wife in mistake for the slop-
basin, and when that lady asked him to pass
the sugar he hande d over the cat by the
taU. He thoughtfully crowded a sausage
into hls trousers-pocket, and then he grew
ZXrfo a i tO S,J „Efto an a?
unGcdotG show tji&t he W3.S • Quite ut
Take 1 Trdlk <la he Sll l t ifted aS t}ie le™ of
would tukc milk ho liftod the
mutton the bone and shook it convulsively
at her fi eadf and asked her what she meant
and^then
“tlfat^e
had bought her under the impression that
she was a re triever, but he didn’t believe
She was worth keeping. Finally, he lit a
cigar, and put the hot end in his mouth,
and went to hover round and listen for the
fire-alarm but no alarm came, and the ex-
Pccted glare on the horizon seemed as if it
would never appear. A clerical friend passed
by and asked him what he was looking for,
aa <* shook him earnestly by the hand and
c% r ® d }° i ead | um a rac ent novel by Zola.
that night he prowled restlessly to and
fro > but nothing whatever happened, and in
morn j n g fi e started off without a collar
at the first gleam of daylight to seek for
the ruins of his warehouse. He got within
two streets of it and then stopped and won-
dered if all had been discovered, and if he
would find two detectives waiting on the
doorstep and a policeman overhauling the
kerosene in the cellar. The idea terrified
him so much that he rushed into an adjacent
bar and asked the girl in charge if any-
thing had hap-
pened in the
night, any-
thing at all-
an earthquake,
a volcano, a
waterspout, a
qu a n tity of
murders, ' lost
dogs, females
left charge-
able on the
Benevo lent
Asylum, big-
a m y, a n y-
tliing; and
when she said
no t hing un-
it s u a 1 had
taken place he
felt so much
worse that he
took a drink
of whisky and
gave her a
shirt - button
and told her
to keep the
change. Then
he rushed
down to the
warehouse and
found it- still
standing. He
charged head-
long into the
cellar, and the
kerosene w’as
sitting there
as calmly as
ever, along
with the shav-
ings and the
rest of the
com bustibles.
H'e looked for
the candle, and
found that it
had blown out
somehow when
it was burnt
down within
half an inch of
the inflam-
mab 1 e ma-
terial below,
and, after
looking at it
with a glazed
eye for a
moment, he
sat down de-
je c tedly on
the floor and
asked if it
was worth
, „ while to be
alive. We recall this event in no un-
friendly spirit, but merely intend it as
a hint to the person chiefly concerned that
the arrogant expression he decorates him-
self with is thrown away on us and that
he may as well mitigate his warlike atti-
tude and assume a less rampant posture
generally. [l9/7/’9o.]
' '
mustering party was sitting round the
camp-fire on Mount McConnell run (N.Q.).
A fat local butcher, with Yankee proclivities,
was telling the crowd of the “foinest soight
the world ivver witnessed—Blondin walkin’
acrast Niagra Falls on a tight rope”—when he
was interrupted by a stuttering young jack-
eroo: “W-what the d-dev-devii are you
b-b-blowing about, S ? W-why, any d
Australian w-would w-walk across Hell
w-with a b-b-barrel of powder slung across
his back for the money Blondin got!”
[l/7/’93 ]
PLAUSIBLE.
“The young lady who was found sitting on Pastor Abbott explained that
she tripped end fell on his knee."— “Standard.”
STARTLED HUSBAND: “What is the meaning of your present position,
Mam?”
LITTLE WIFE ( airily ): “I merely tripped and fell, John, dear.”
[Tom Durkin. —24/12/’92.]
A Cape York Peninsula snake-perjury,
p at Burke and Bill Gemmell were on their
way to the Batavia rush, and pitched tent
•,,„ ™ a , .
one 1 mgbt ncar the Coen. They turned m
ear *y» after a strong supper of German
sausage, one of which mysteries had been
left on top of a swag that lay on the . floor
between the impromptu bunks. About, mid-
night Gemmell was awakened by feeling
something rough and cold on his face. He
a y perfectly still, in semi-paralysed horror,
Presently the thing moved off, and lie saw
that it was a snake making straight for
the German sausage. Gemmell called to
Burke, and then crawled out of the tent,
and lay down outside till morning, when he
found that Pat had already brought in the
horses. “Nothing disturb you in the night?”
says Bill. “No,” replied Burke, “but I gets
U P myself feeling awful hungry. I couldn’t
find a match, but knows w T here the sausage
was. So I whips out me knife and cuts
off a whack of the sausage. By Christopher!
warn’t it tough just, an’ I’ve been sick ever
since.” Gemmell went into the tent and
found—the remains of the snake and the
sausage. The snake had choked itself trying
to swallow the sausage, and Pat had eaten
a section of snake and sausage combined,
[B/4/’93,J
A RARA AVIS.
OLD SETTLER : “I dunno much about law —
I'm not a J.P.”
BARROSTER (on holiday): “Ah! Thank
Heaven, I’ve met one at last! Your
hand, my man.” (Invites him to
lunch.)
[A. Fischer. —29/10/’92.]
King Jacky visited a bush hospital the
other day. ‘T say, Boss?” “Well.” “Gib
it nip out of that'pfeller bottle?” “That no
good; that no grog, that physic. We’re not
allowed grog here.” Pause. “You gib it
poor pfeller bacca?” “We’re not allowed
to smoke here.” Pause. “You no grog?”
“No.” “You no smoke?” “No.” “S’pose
you can swear?” “Oh, yes.” “Mine tink
it you better plenty swear, or you die alto-
gether.” [22/7/’93.]
SAILING SONG
v , , e
Y v L / >r f ‘ l. hr(iGZ ’
io ho. for the snow plumed wav ,
wavcs aad
Of the foam from the seamaids ca .
1 ' hearts to the happy laug t
, (. th? siting ripples flow,
As fightly the wind s wings waft e ,
Iveep chime, yo ho. yo ho.
Sino- bn' for the headlands hoarv'
Sing llo' for the pillai-ed smay!
Tliev S hnve' fronted the mornino-’s alorv
Tl sL« ih/S? of c”a.S daT J
O'oi* tlio nnrinf rollor swooDin 0 *
Where the free winds blare and blow,
tho nlhntross suils sloGDiu 0 *
We%kfiina sina sin- ho '
\\ e sailing, smg, sin* no.
Sfe S !„iTj° r f„J h !he d^if h a t s£o d<!di
*W tho shades, with the dead uiht blended,
o*%s? L«t”7ea!meaSr tidra
U Whore the fafr -low
Ghost white in the deenenin-“shadows
° ’
Ml In B eing s g, s » u.
Sing soft, for the stars are dawning
And the fleeting shores grow dim,
And the song of the breeze-blown morning
Fades not to an evening; hymn*
For the wings of the night-winds eerie
Die down on the darkening foam,
And our boat, with her white wings weary,
Creeps back to her harbor home.
roQ/4/iqq i
t->. / o.j
J. P. c.
LOVE’S TONTINE.
Most love stories have a Mabel, or a Maud,
or Gladys, or Claribel. This one has none
of these, only plain Jeannie Thomson. Not
Jinny nor Jenny, and hardly Thomson, if
truth is wanted. She called herself Jeannie
Tamsin. She is Scotch.
The heroes, and one was a hero, are not
Cyrils, Cecils, Aubreys, Randolphs or Mor-
timers. One was Jock McLeish, the other is
Wull Scobie. They were all Scotch, and few
Scotchmen are heroes. I am privileged to
say this. I myself am a Scotchman.
It was Whyte Melville who told a lady
that the extraordinary thing about liis most
improbable and perfectly impossible novel was
that every word was true. I don’t say my story
is true, but it is
very near it. I
don’t like to write
it. It is too hor-
rible, and yet it
is not so ghastly
as a stab in the
dark or a cow-
ardly murder. It
is ghastly because
it is unique. The
face of Jock
McLeish appears
when I misshape
one of my capi-
tals, when a
spot of ink falls
on the white
paper and spreads
into fantasy, when
the lamp-shadow
flickers, when the
cat meows, when
a coal topples our
of the fire; for
Jock was one of
mv friends, and
when I look back
I might have
guessed his end—
but nothing could
turn McLeish
from an intended
line of action.
The story is
short. Jock and
Wull were fenc-
ing on a small
place near Hugh--
enden (Q.). There
was a newchum
cook, called Jean
Thomson, and the
fencers were
allowed to have
supper and break-
fast in the kit-
c h e n. Jeannie
was fair to sec;
one of those
healthy Scotchwomen who come from about
the Ochils, and everyone took a fancy to her.
Both of our fencers fell in love with her.
Womanlike, she fell in love with only one
of them, and that w r as Scobie. McLeish -was
always a morose man; he did not drink after
the first or second glass, but he gambled. He
would bet on anything and his last two or
three investments were curious and profitable,
but not to him.
. The pair of them had a ticket in a sweep
and drew Pistol. We all know how Pistol won,
but .few thought that Scobio and McLeisn
realised £9OO. They never changed their style
of life ; but they had only £3OO apiece, because
they had' promised Jeannie a share in the
ticket. Now, the ticket was in John
MeLeish’s name, and the confidence of the
other two was such that the money was
lodged in the bank also entirely in his name.
He said he saw how things were, and that
when the' fence was finished he’d settle up
and go away. The other two knew he was
deep gone on the woman. Just about then
an insurance-agent came round canvassing
for a great Yankee company. We knew
this agent—yellow face, black teeth, smooth,
badly-fitting broadcloth clothes, dirty nails
and a hideous grin. So he canvassed for
Jock's life, explaining that if he were to
be shot or die to-morrow he’d get £IOOO, on
payment of £22 yearly. Then Jock asked
if suicides got paid. “Yes, certainly; that’s
a special item in our policies.” He also
assured him that the payments were prompt,
and they went into town, where Jock got
a policy for £IOOO, and a guarantee from the
local bank manager that the affair was square.
Now, in the town of Bungancork there
was, as in every other country place, a
billiard-sharp and bookie. You can tell them
by their unhealthy pallor and bald head; also
by their diamond ring, beastly grammar and
profuse obscenity. This was a man of “stuff”;
he found backers when he made a big bet,
and was once known to own three legs of
a horse and to take a contract wool-washing.
Well, he met Jock, and asked him his busi-
ness in Bungancork. Life insurance. “What
on earth are you wasting your money on
that for?” “Well,” said Jock, “I believe Wull
Scobie will be the means of my death within
six months —-at least. I’ll take odds about it.”
“Tell you what I’ll do,” said spieler Baldy,
“I’ll lay you 5 to 1 you don’t die within
six months—at least, I’ll take odds about it.”
“Done,” said Jock—“come over to the bank
and post the money.”
If you think of it, this was a real good
bet for the bald spieler ; and he had a hun-
dred or two to spare. The manager was
induced to place to a separate account £250
of Baldy’s money, and £SO of Jock’s. The
sum being payable to the order of both, which
was given in a .sealed envelop*., and stated
the contingency on which it depended.
Then Jock went back to complete his fence.
About a week before the last strainer was
put up he went into town and made his will,
and left it with the local drunkard—l mean
solicitor. Then came the end of the fence
and the end of Jock. Wull was straining
the last wire and talking to the overseer.
Jock was at the further end and could not
be seen for thistles. The wire gave and gave
to the Spanish windlass. Both the overseer
and Scobie remarked that it took a lot of
turns. So they slacked it and took anew
purchase. All right now; the wire keyed
and cut; the fence is finished; but where is
Jock? “Coo-ee.” Not an answer! Then
they strolled down to the next straining-
post among the thistles. Crows have begun
to collect. On one side of the fence is Jock’s
head, and on the other side his trunk: cut
asunder by the wire—clean decapitation—
and to this day no one can swear how his
head got into .the bight of the wire. But
Jeannie is Mrs. Scobie, and the will left
everything to Wull and Jeannie conjointly
and the spieler repudiated the bet, but
finally paid by order on the banker* and the
insuiancc-agent, with tobacco-juice on his
lips and mud in his nails, advised his com-
pany to contest it. But, being a new affair
on the contrary, it used Jock’s suicide (?)
as an advertisement. ''
. There is a sadness about a homestead lease
m West Queensland, not engendered by the
natures of the master and mistress, but
caused by the extraordinary way in which
the place was acquired. It is called Tontine
Plains.
SCOTTY THE WRINRLER.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
What the Dole Really Is
Dear Bulletin, —“Emel” (B. 27/l/’32)
makes an unfortunate comparison between
“Gad” and his fellow-bagmen and the animal
world. He loses sight of the fact that, by
remaining law-abiding citizens, “Gad” and
his fellows are debarred from taking what
is theirs by natural law. In the animal
world there is a living for the individual, to
be gained by working for it. This is not
the case amongst the “dominant animals,”
there being a living for the individual there
only when he is allowed to work for it. It
is the duty of the State, therefore, to regu-
late the business of living in a manner that
will allow the individual who is willing to
work to do so, even if his work supplies
only the necessities of life. When the
State fails to thus order things, then it
must buy immunity from internal strife.
This is what costs us at present ss. per week
per head. —Yours, etc., Nod.
The Right to the Dole
Dear B., —On what grounds, asks “Emel”
(B. 27/l/’32), do the bagmen claim the
dole as their right? Just these. Society
has appointed a Government to minister to
its social needs and collective welfare. This
Government in times of distress subsidises
the wheat industry, sugar, etc., because they
are essential factors in our social system.
The worker is no less important, for he is
the energy that produces in order to feed
our system. But “Emel” would scrap this
illogical civilisation, with its sloppy humani-
tarian laws and social ideals, in preference
for the jungle, where the individual must
fend for himself, or perish. Very well,
let us start by scrapping the police force,
which is an institution of this weak civilisa-
tion that “Emel” so heartily despises. Is
“Emel” prepared to keep eternal vigil over
the family pantry and repulse each burly
bagman who, prompted by the instinct of
independent self-preservation, contends that
he has more right to its contents than he,
“Emel”? —Yours, Hugh G.
Abolish “A”-class Broadcasting Stations
Dear B., —Why not abolish all “A”-class
broadcasting stations on the expiration of
their present contract, and abolish the
license fee of 245. per year paid by every
listener-in? All stations would then have
to depend on advertising for their revenue,
and to get it would have to produce pro-
grammes of a standard equal, if not superior,
to those at present provided by “A”-class
stations. There would be no falling off in
the sale of radio sets; in fact, the sales
would be stimulated, since a set purchaser
would know that he would not have to
pay a license fee. At present a big per-
centage of listeners never tune in to “A”-
class stations, as they consider their pro-
grammes inferior to “B” class. It is hardly
fair to these to make them help pay for
stations they do not use. As an alterna-
tive, listeners who so desire should be
allowed to make or purchase sets so con-
structed that they would pick up only
stations on the “B” band. These latter
receive nothing from the license fee; there-
fore listeners are entitled to listen to
them free of any fee. It is a simple matter
to construct a set that will tune in only
“B”-class stations. —Yours, etc., Eureka.
The Men Who Provide the Dole
Dear B., —“Hugh G.” says “the £>s. a
week dole is quite inadequate.” Quite likely
it is ; but does he expect more? The rate
is much the same in Victoria and other
States, except perhaps Lang’s. But listen!
This very day I repaired three tanks for
a man living 12 miles from Melbourne P.Q.,
in a wattle-and-dab house, on an acre of
land, which he is slowly buying. He has a
wife and eight children, whose ages range
from 18 months to 13 years- Four go to
school, the others are too young. Ho works
for a fruitgrower (two miles away), at
£2 15s. a week, and a few months ago he
had to pay a “relief” income tax of 225.
6d. to help sustain some of “Hugh G.’s”
Victorian cobbers, or possibly some of those
eight beauties in a Melbourne boarding-
house who were lately overhauled with 5S
dole tickets among them. —Yours, Frank C.
Sacrificed to Politicians
Dear B., —The never-ending duel between
ins and outs is responsible for the robbery
of the people. Each member fights for
bribes. In Victoria H. Glowery, M.P., gets
a ten-thousand-pound higher-elementary
school for Ouyen for 70 children, who could
be accommodated, if at all necessary, for
one-tenth the cost, while tiny schools serv-
ing far-back settlements of struggling cockies
with a minimum voting power are closed.
Ypu see, Glowery’s vote is very important.
A. E. Cook, M.P., rages, and, as a sop,
two schools, recommended properly for
closure by the hoard, are kept open. Thou-
sands of children of 12 are forced, despite
the wishes of their parents, into higher
schools, as 'the primary teacher, highly
qualified though he may be, ceases at the
sixth grade. Expensive books must be bought.
New subjects must be started—useless to
them, for the vast majority will leave at
14. For years the Teachers’ Union has
been battling for a reasonable system of
post-primary education, and for economies
which would result in a saving of hundreds
of thousands of pounds a year, but have
been practically told not to interfere with
the functions of Parliament. All Parliamen-
tary sections are tarred with the same brush.
I despair of getting through without a
Mussolini. — Yours, Topo.
The Sydney Tramways
Dear Bulletin, —Within a few weeks we
are to have a vast concourse of visitors
to see our Bridge. For the time they are
here I suggest that wo close down our tram-
way system. We surely do not want our
visitors to take back a mental picture of a
conductor, with a precarious hold, walking
along a plank to collect fares. The
modern bridge and the ancient tram would
be such a dose of extremes as to be almost
indigestible. The visitors are sure to ask
questions, and it would not be possible
to hide the fact that conductor G. Short fell
off the footboard in June last, struck his
head, and died on Nov. 29. Perhaps _it
would also be advisable, from a publicity
point of view, to try to hide the informa-
tion that driver L. F. Brown, a compara-
tively old man, died on Dec.. 12, 1931. For
a breach of regulations he was sentenced
to “a month on the bag." Being totally
unfitted physically for climbing along a 9in.
plank, which requires judgment and use, he
slipped and fell. His leg was amputated in
an unsuccessful attempt to save his life.
Every second day a man is injured on the
footboard, yet w r e go on hoping that the
public will not notice the items among the
gaol riots, the fashionable divorces and the
indiscriminate use of firearms. Compensa-
tion and superannuation figures are swollen
beyond their correct ratio by tin 1 footboard.
The Governments of the day, shouting their
high ideals at each other, somehow forget
their own employees and the dignity of a
city’s service. One of them looks on us as
voting pawns, the other as hopeless for
voting strength, and between the two they
perpetuate a system that is not allowed else-
where. —Yours, A Puller op Tickets.
Careless Sheep-breeding
Dear BULLETIN, —Many graziers are their
own worst enemies. Here is a typical case.
I had to inquire into it lately. The owner
(the place carries 4000 sheep) mates “bucks”
( i.c ., rams that have been missed at mark-
ing time) as well as stud-bred rams with
his cw r es. Added to this he never culls his
young ewes; and in this fault he has many
companions. I have had wide experience
in N.S.W. and Queensland, and have found
that, at a conservative estimate, 50 per cent,
of graziers do not cull their young breeders.
These men apparently do not realise that
their product is eventually going to deterio-
rate and the buyer is not going to pay a
good price for an inferior' article. It would
be interesting (were it possible) to com-
pare the average price of wool from culled
flocks with the price obtained for the
product of unculled flocks. Th e comparison
would show without doubt that a large
proportion of the people who have Aussie’s
major industry in their hands are not doing
justice to it. The same carelessness about
breeding lost Australia the Indian horse
market to a very large extent. Is the
nation going to take a back seat in wool-
growing from the same cause?—Yours,
G.L. H.
Long-term Contracts
Dear Bulletin, —During the last 10 or
15 years the control of the world’s money
has passed from the hands of comparatively
Christian John Bull—sufficiently Christian,
at any rate, to know the parable of the
Talents and to use his money to the best
advantage. It has passed into the hands of
American and French Jews, who, like the fool
in the parable, have
hidden it. But these
French and American
Jews, instead of losing
their gold because they
will not make use of it,
expect us to continue
paying scarcity prices for
a commodity they haven’t
the nerve or the brains to
use. It is childish to ex-
pect the world to commit
suicide for the sanctity of
a standard which broke
down 40 years after it
came into existence, and
it is monstrous to expect
a mortgagor to pay the
original interest on a loan
when the mortgagee, by
either malevolence or
stupidity, has decreased
the capital value of the
loan and threatens to
continue that process in-
definitely. If the last
few years have -taught us
anything, surely it is that
there is need for constitu-
tional and international
insurance against all
future faking of values
either inflationary or de-
flationary; and if the
statistic ian’s index
figures and the exchange
rates, under League of
Nations control, are not
adequate, then our first
job is to make them ad-
equate. I would hate to
enter into a long contract
with either Englishman
or Jew under the present
Rafferty Roles.—-Yours,
Wageplug.
Idle Lands
Dear Bulletin,—-
“Kell B-” has a grouch
(B. 27/l/’32) because of
certain privately-owned
lands that might profit-
ably be worked being
kept idle by their own-
ers, It must be remem-
bered there is a to-mor-
row, and the wise man
always makes provision
for the morrow. The
ground he keeps idle to-
day may be supporting
his son and his son’s wife
and family a few years
hence, and the man that
brings a son or a daugh-
ter into existence has a
right to make provision
for his or her future.
Then, again, an idle block
of ground may be ground
held in reserve for the
security of the owner in
the pursuit of liis calling.
--Yours truly, Son op A
Cocky.
Public Service Pay
Dear B.,—Consider the
typical case of one
N.S.W. official in the
Justice Department.
A°-e 23 • salary, £260 p.a. From this amount
the’following deductions are made: Salary
cut (Premiers’ Agreement), £4O 10s.; wage
tax £ll • compulsory contributions to super-
ann’uation fund, £11; net salary £197 10s.
No holidays for nearly two years, no free
house and* no allowance of any description,
He wms engaged to be married, but now sees
little prospect of it for. years. He had to
complete the usual high-school course before
sitting for the public service entrance exam-
ination. He receives £3 16s. a week com-
pared with the State basic wage of £4 2s. 6d.
Incidentally dozens of the more energetic
officers in that department have qualified or
are qualifying for admission as solicitors, and
will strike out for themselves as soon as
times brighten a little. The drones will be
left to serve the State and will eventually
be appointed as stipendiary magistrates at
the reduced salaries offering. If the people
want a cheap and underpaid public service
they are of course, entitled to it; but they
will pay heavily for it.—Yours, Colwyn.
Queensland Effff Board
T . ~ . -a. „ nf .i n
Dear Bulletjn,— lt is said by Rsi apo»
gists that the export levy is only §
during the export Se a son. Well, my mon y
statements show it to have been deductcd
gucli month for the Inst months , nncl x
under the impression that eggs were exported
only during September, October and INovem-
levy Was for the penod
September 29 to November 29, lydt), owing
to the producers complaining of the low
prices paid during the 1930 export season;
and, further, we got a few pence “profit”
out of the season. During the 1931 export
season, however, the prices paid were as low,
notwithstanding that the eggs exported had
good sales and the benefit of exchange; yet the
export levy has never been remitted. Is there
an ogre somewhere swallowing our money?
The whole question is: Are these boards
as economical and efficient as private enter-
prise? They can hand us what price they
like for our produce, and make what charges
they like in the way of levies, etc., without
check or explanation. They can be over-
staffed, overpaid and inefficient, and have
nobody to face. Of course, we have our elec-
tions,‘but the men nominated are unknown
to most voters, and we have no knowledge
of their business abilities. Further, however
well and conscientiously they try to carry
out their policy, they have their own farms
to run, and only meet occasionally. The
manager and his staff run the show, on a
blank cheque on the producers’ returns,
Pools and boards will always be under sus-
picion till an annual thorough overhaul of
their accounts and business methods is made,
—Yours, Friar Tuck.
The Next Great Smash
Dear B.,—“The most important fact
whieh has emerged from the session is that
Freetrade has been killed and buried, never
probably to be exhumed.” The statement
came from the “S. M. Herald’s” “special
correspondent” in the House of Commons,
and it will probably require some time before
the “Herald” assimilates it. That paper
has a pretty comprehensive ignorance as to
uffiat its pet doctrine is made of, and so
has every other so-called leader of Import-
ing and Borrowing Thought.
A time came in a very sudden fashion
wffien Britain’s exports ceased to pay for
its imports and the interest and sinking fund
on its Yankee debt. This sort of thing
happened to Australia a good many years
ago; but the Australian idea of 1 reetrade
is that money should be borrowed at any
price so long as it can be found at any
price; hence Australia borrowed until the
money stopped. Then it talked repudia-
tion. Britain threw its Freetrade gospel
overboard at short notice. It has been killed
and buried, never probably to be exhumed,
The Australian atmosphere is full ot per-
nicious lies about liow something that we
really don’t require can be bought a larth-
ing cheaper provided we import it, and
borrow the money at some absurd figure to
P a y f <> r it; » and sacrifice our own industries
in the process. Australia has accumulated
about £250,000,000 of oversea debts, includ-
j ng c a sual overdrafts, in doing this sort of
thingi and the sudden stoppage of this sort
Qf tMng has f urn j s h e d an amazing number
« nnomnlovpd NpvprtliGloss in some cjunr-
’, f * t t : rpd of tbe noveltv
-uatiy mg of
f t ft - f npxt o-reat smash
pI solomon M^aplop
Yours > etc., Solomon malaprop.
. ,
Wanted, a Four-dimensional Economics
Dear B.,—When the thoughtful man turns
to books on economics lie finds chapters devoted
to Land, Labor and Capital, but not one
with a word to say as to the effects of Time,
The functions of Time are neglected both in
theory and practice. Sowing (Labor) the
seed (Capital) in the soil (Land) is not
enough: it takes Time to give a crop. This
fundamental operation of the industrial
system illustrates the interrelation of Land,
Labor, Capital and Time. Time, however,
not only creates ; it destroys. The business
man recognises the effects of time by allow-
ing for wear and tear, depreciation of fixed
capital, and for bad debts : but the theorist
fails to recognise the need to allow for the
two functions of time (creation and destrue-
tion), and consequently all the losses made
by time are allowed to accumulate (as debt)
an d ruin the individual, instead of being
spread over the system as a whole, and by
degrees, so that no suffering would be
caused. What is wanted is a four-dimen-
sional economy instead of our present three-
dimensional one. One historic economic
system (the Mosaic system) allowed for the
effects of time. It should not surpass _ the
practical and theoretical capacity of tliink-
ing business men to make corrections for
the effect of time: the first step necessary
being the recognition of the need.—Yours
etc., M. C. DeGaris.
FEDERAL PARLIAMENT REOPENS.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin~P f uiid'inqs
252 Georqe Street
sYD N e v
See announcement page 13.
“Down with the Cost of Living
and Keep the Wages in Line.”
That is the way to prosperity for Australia.
See last Thursday’s “Barrier Miner” leader.
“THE BARRIER MINER” is published twice
every day at Broken Hill. It is read every day
by nearly everybody in the Far West, and has
been so for 44 years. With the “Barrier Miner”
to read every day, the people of the Far West,
in town and country, are quite independent of
the coastal city press.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
♦
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Blue Roses”
State ...................... Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) “The Chocolate Soldier”
King’s “The Barretts of Winipole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
♦ .
From one point of view “The Barretts
of Wimpole-street,” put on at Melb. King's
on Saturday by a new English company,
is just too sweet. From another it
is a striking study in sexual path-
ology. Old man Barrett is a wealthy
Jamaican slave-owner, retired to London.
Not being able to bring his slaves with
him he has 11 children instead. His
wife bore “the first in love, the . rest in
fear,” unhappy woman. Then she dies, leav-
her gloomy, tyrannical husband to bring up
his offspring. Sexually starved and the
child of his era —round about 1 1840—he
easily convinces himself that love is a dan-
gerous thing and proceeds to protect his
family from it. Any young man who comes
nosing round his daughters is liable to be
sent away with a flea in his ear. His
sons are brought up like monks, the
family remaining loyal to the old man
because he has the moneybags. Father
Barrett’s real condition is insanity, shot
through with tumultuous feelings ‘ for 1 his
eldest daughter, Elizabeth, aged 39, who is
supposed to be dying of consumption. She
lias an epistolatory love affair with Robert
Browning, the poet, and eventually, meets
her correspondent. Her health , begins to
improve immediately. The doctors order
Elizabeth to Italy, but her father, refuses
to let her go, whereupon she secretly mar-
ries Robert and bolts with him. The father's
last act is to order Elizabeth’s dog; to be
destroyed, but it also has escaped; him.
How much of the foregoing is biographically
correct doesn’t matter. The author, Rudolph
Besier, has made a sound drama out, of his
material. E. Bellenden Clarke gave a bril-
liant study of the old man. He acted and
talked like a villain of old-time melodrama,
but perhaps that is how Victorian parents
behaved —anyhow it seemed consistent. ■ As
Elizabeth Barrett Margaret Rawlings, con-
demned to do most of her acting from a sofa,
was subtle and convincing. A somewhat
monotonous voice had an expressive face and
equally expressive hands to assist it
in conveying the repressed emotions of
a mature wotnan mentally deformed by
the cracked morality of a domestic despot.
Although it is the least interesting feature
of the piece the romance between the poets
was made attractive by Barry K. Barnes,
the first stage poet present critic ? has
surveyed who talked more or less like
an artist. Mary Macgregor was in a part
which fitted her like a bathing-suit—-that of
a hard bright damsel engaged in • a clandes-
tine affair with a Guardsman. The produc-
ing of Gabriel Toyne was excellent, but he
might induce, his employers to shut the doors
after the rising of the first curtain to keep
out late animals. In the first 80 minutes 14
elephants, ten rliinoceri and seven camels
stumbled down the aisle alongside which the
Showman was located, and his pet corn was
trodden on by all the fauna.
* * *
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, which had not,
seen a new play for so long that it must
have forgotten there are such things, got a
shock on Saturday night when the two-act
musical comedy “Blue Roses”—words by
Desmond Carter, lyrics by Vivian Ellis —
made positively its first appearance on the
Australian stage. It brought with it Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard, and the rest of
the cast was filled by actors and actresses
so well known to Sydney that the audience
gave each one a salvo of applause as he or
she entered. In this chummy atmosphere
the opus of Desmond and Vivian, tvhich was
nicely dressed and competently produced,
went very well.
The plot is extremely complicated. There
is a blue rose, which is guarded by a detec-
tive (Cecil Kellaway). It is sold by the
detective for f 100 to an American million-
aire in plus-fours (Leo Franklyn), and a
white rose dyed blue is substituted (it should
be explained that the botanical specimen is
in a pot). By inducing, the detective to
wear blue spectacles as a cure for head-
aches the nephew (Cyril Ritchard) of a
titled lady (Alathea Siddons), who runs
a flower-shop in Mayfair, is enabled to steal
the dyed rose, substituting a pure-white one.
Love interest is provided by the aristocratic
lady’s nephew and a daughter (Madge
Elliott) of the blue rose’s rightful owner
(Arthur Cornell). Another daughter (Dulcie
Davenport) has an affair with the rose-
stealing nephew’s pal and confederate (Frank
Leighton). The situation is made still more
uproariously and devastatingly humorous by
some of the characters mistaking a private
house for a pub, and by an argument in
which people in a florist’s shop endeavor to
show with a whisky bottle and other props
the direction in which their old school lay
from the village tavern. To describe how
the tangled skein is unravelled would not
only be unfair to future audiences but quite
beyond this Showman’s powers.
The piece, which provides plenty of pretty
stage pictures, is entirely a background for
the very light and facile dancing of Miss
Elliott and Mr. Ritchard. Their agility is
pronounced, and they waltz divinely, but
some of the postures they adopt, are the
reverse of graceful. The music is as shallow
as a teaspoon, but deftly composed, with
occasional flashes of ingenuity. The voices
of the Misses Elliott and Davenport, who do
most of the singing, are small, but Vivian’s
twitterings were not written for Melba.
Taken as a whole the piece ranks perhaps
a step higher than the late Lionel Monck-
ton’s worst, but at that Monckton never had
so poor a libretto to cope with.
* * *
“The Rescue Party,” a comedy by
Phyllis Morris, which was put on at the
Kiosk. Fawkner Park, by the new Mel-
bourne Little Theatre Co. last week, sug-
gests a playwright -with a good sense of life,
but inadequate courage. The first act is
dull, but things warm up in the second and
the temperature of the third reaches blood
heat in places. The presence of three eccle-
siastics and one missionary on the stage
simultaneously gives the proceedings the
atmosphere of a Lambeth conference, but
the subjects on the agenda paper are more
interesting. The Rev. Timothy Bray (Hal
Percy) is a middle-aged bachelor, clergyman
who, rescues Hgrmione, (Eve. Dawney ), from
a life of semi-genteel prostitution by taking
her into ;the .rectory as his secretary. ;The
village community, represented by Lady
Holmes (Catherine Boyce), and Miss Jubb
(Jean Walker), stock;examples of the,Puri-
tan, conscience,, takes a deep interest in the
arrangement and comes to the usual benevo-
lent conclusions. When a : scandal of satis-
factory proportions has been manufactured
the ; Bishop feels obliged. to intervene , f on
behalf of the church’s prestige, and sends
two emissaries, the Rev. Jeyemiah, Tulkliart
(Raymond Weeks) and Archdeacon - Craw-
ford (F. McMahon), to instil a sense of pro-
priety into the Rev. Timothy. That rebel-
lious gentleman refuses to flatter local pre-
judices and; get hifiiself out of an uncomfort-
able situation by inducing the damsel to
marry him, so is threatened with the loss of
his, parish, , In. these circumstances a play-
wright' with as orthodox a conscience as the
people; she; thinks' slig is .castigating is in a
serious: quandary. But old cliches in the
cast : off . clothes of G, B. Shaw anil Bertrand
Riissell come to' the rescue. The.missionary
arrives in the nick of time, the girl finds
she has a mission to convert the heathen as
Mrs. 1 Missionary, and . the comforting; aroma
of. orange-bldssoms, is blown in great; gusts
over the footlights. One of these days the
modern English playwright will goad .this
Showman beyond endurance, and in self-
defence .he will compose a play in which half
the people, will have bad consciences and
the other half will have good consciences,
and all the people with good consciences will
be jolly and all the people with bad con-
sciences will' be acutely miserable. When
he has completed the opus he will raise a
large, loan from his bankers and stage , the
piece at great expense and invite all the
playwrights he has suffered under to inspect
MADGE ELLIOTT AND CYRIL RITCHARD,
The principal reason for “Blue Roses” at Sydney Her Majesty’s.
it. There will then arise a great renaissance
of the drama rivalling that in the reign of
good Queen Elizabeth, who" was one of the
few monarchs in history who had a good
conscience; but then she could afford the
luxury better than most of her subjects.
The best feature of the evening was the
acting. Eve Dawney was the Magdalen
born to suffer, and looked and interpreted
the part to perfection. H'al Percy was the
unconventional parson who caps the remark
that it is the duty of everyone to return
their souls to their Maker in the same con-
dition as they received them with the adden-
dum, “Fair wear and tear excepted.” Mr.
Percy’s only drawback was a habit cf'
eachinnation, which made one hope that he
didn’t laugh in his sleep as much as he did
in the daytime. Compton Coutts, as a
psychic butler who gets in touch with Plato
and Nero, was, as usual, brilliantly funny.
The presence of this first-rate character
actor in an amateur co. helps to explain why
the legitimate stage is so tediously unfunny.
* ¥ *
The impression given by the performance
on Saturday of G. Martinez Sierra’s “The
Cradle Song,” by the New Sydney Repertory
Society, is that the piece reads infinitely
better* than it plays. A study of life within
a Spanish convent, it has literary charm and
some sentimental appeal, but it is poor
theatre stuff with an almost entire absence of
action. Experienced players might get some-
thing out of it, but in the hands of amateurs
it becomes a tedious exercise. It was first
produced in Sydney two years ago at the
Turret Theatre with similar results. There
were bright flashes in Saturday night's per-
formance, but these were rare. . Dorothy
Wliiteley, as the Prioress, Muriel Connor
as the Vicaress, and Alice Bolger as Sister
Joanna were the most successful character-
isations. John Wilson was passable as Dr.
Don Jose, and Helen Kent was as spirited as
her lines would permit.
* * #
In company with Sir P. Game and approxi-
mately 50,000 less eminent persons this
Page turned out on a dark and dirty night
to give countenance to what the military
authorities termed a “grand torchlight
tattoo” at St. Leonard’s Park, which is over
beyond North Sydney. It wasn’t a bad show.
There actually were torches—scores of ’em—
and searchlights swept the enormous oval
w r hen any feature of the display called, for
spot-lighting. A soft drizzle of rain fell most
of the time, making cat’s-fur patterns on the
searchlight beams, and when ten brass bands
united in Handel’s Celebrated Largo- the)
sounded fine —thin rain provides the ideal
atmosphere, acoustically, for such perform-
ances. There was a great band of Scottisfi
pipers, too—an Amplified Voice declared "with
;pride that it was the largest concatenation
of pibrochs, chaunters and drones • ever
assembled in Australia. The Scotties, m
their glittering regalia and picturesque
tartans, carried themselves proudly, more
soldierly figures than, a great many of the
lads in khaki, which helps to explain the
importance the military folk of a bygone
day placed on a showy , full-dress uniform.
Most picturesque item- of the evening was
the bringing into action of a. couple of Gin.
howitzers. For business purposes these
powerful little guns , are drawn by tractors,
but gee-gees were used for the ; sake. ,of
appearances. To link old and new a replica
of a company of the Rum Corps, of 1832, in
scarlet, tunics, white, stocks and top" boots,
with a funny little band of boy-drummers and
fifers, took stance in the arena and was re-
lieved of guard by a modern unit. Sir. P.
Game read to the multitude, per amplifier,
a message to the colonel of the East Surrey
Regiinent from the 17 th Battalion. A
copy of this was handed to a motor-cyclist
dispatch-rider, who took it into town and
got back 72 minutes later with a reply, re-
ceiving an ovation. Why the-message wasn’t
sent direct, or ’phoned from the tuppence-in-
the-slot at the park gate, wasn’t explained.
While waiting for the trusty dispatch-rider
to negotiate the perils of the punts (Sydney
isn’t using its bridge yet) the military
showed how frontier tribes are taught to
behave themselves in India, and how infan-
try, supported by artillery, sets about cap-
turing a machine-gun nest against heavy fire
and a gas attack. In these evolutions the
citizen soldiers were sprightly. They shape
better in action than on parade, as was
noted a few years ago. By the time the
'show was. over North Sydney was crowned
with drifting wreaths of smoke and per-
fumed by the aroma
of explosives—just
like a .somewhat
similar suburb,' fur-
ther north on the
map, called - Chapei.
Thank God, we still
have some sort of an
army I '
# ft-
“ Joy Spots” is the
name of the latest
Nat Phillips show
at Sydney Grand
Opera House. The
Delmars, girl acro-
bats, the Lewola
Brothers, stepdanc-
ers, and the Two
High C’s, singers,
are features; and
Keith Connolly, Dan.
Weldon, Les War-
ton, Betty Lambert,
Elsie ILosking and
the ballet take part
in innumerable bur-
lesques and provide
many chuckles. The
thing concludes with
a little - musicomedy
“At the Grand,” in
which Stiffy and Joe
Lawman are bell-
boys.
* * #
Melbourne is. in-
vited to welcome
G 1 ad y s Moncrieff
back to the Royal
on Saturday in
“The Chocolate Sol-
dier.” Invitations
are available at the
usual prices. There
will be “Hanky
Panky” at the Palace on the same
evening. In case the company which
performed Mr. Rolls’s previous opuses earned
the undying hatred of any playgoer, The
Bulletin hastens to advise that the new
bill will be under the care of an entirely new
corps of artists, including Josephine Trix,
Stan Foley, the brisk and intelligent Nell
Fleming, Nellie Barnes, Nick Morton and
others.
* # *
From the announcement of Jim Gerald’s
• latest bill at Melbourne Tivoli:—
NIGHTS OF JOY.
The very title brings to mind the Venetian Car-
nival, the soft nights of the Midi, and the warm
whisperings of the Provencal mistral as it lingers
lightly from lover to lover breathing their messages
and their passion. Intrigues and long-forgotten
assignations, romances buried in old Italy. The
sweetness in parting, the poignancy in remeeting.
Still, quiet, the moon guarding her minions in their
tryst—lovers of old and their nights of joy. From
these gossamer materials has Jim Gerald built his
next production, which merits the crown of attain-
ment for its beauty in conception and exquisite
grace of finish.
The nearest approach to Venice this Show-
man saw was a Dutch clogdance, and the
rest was what the trade calls “routine vaude-
ville.” • If Mr. Gerald is ever out of a stage
job he ought to make a fortune as a writer
of romantic fiction.
* # *
The stately and eminent Sybil Thorndike
will open in Perth, proceed thence to Adel-
aide and not meet really discriminating, en-
lightened and experienced theatregoers until
she arrives in Melbourne, some time in mid-
winter. (Adelaide and Perth papers please
copy.) The only previous appearance the
lady/ has made in Australia was as ■ Nurse
Cavell in the silent picture. It is one of
three outstanding performances 'in screen
history.
* #
Among Gr’egan McMahon’s projects for
1932 in Melbourne are “The Queen’s Hus-
band,” a satire by Robert Sherwood; Drink-
water’s drama “Mary Stuart; C. K. Munro’s
“Mr. Eno; His Birth, Life and Death”;
and J. B. Eagan’s “And So to Bed.” J. B.
Priestley’s “The Good Companions” is a
possibility.
“Sceneshifter”: There should be joy in
Australian pro. circles. Shaw’s “Saint
Joan,” one of Sybil Thorndike’s pieces,
employs a cast of 24, and many supers.
The Palette,
J .S.”: Artistically, of course, subject
is of no importance. A well-painted bunch
of turnips is a better picture than a badly-
painted Madonna. Nevertheless, the artist
must select some subject to paint. . Why
do nine-tentli.s of Australian daubers : go‘ after
, tlle same stereotyped quarry ?•- .L’a'st. winter
a i t J s^ on . P r °duced the usual procession
of ~dahlias m pots ; acres of popular mduri-
• tain resorts ;'Bends in the Road and Girls
reading Letters. Why not Beer in Pots,
unpopular factory resorts and Girls thump-
ing Typewriters? ‘All the significant paint-
ers •of the . past concerned; themselves with
the contemporary equivalents of these things.
From 1 elasquez we know a • lot of curious
-things about the Spanish Court; ‘from Char-
! 2 in what , a French back yard Ayas like, and
from Rembrandt how ' a streetin Leyden
struck him. If nothing survives frbm the
present era but ■ paintings' of the orthodox
school the. historian of 100 years hence will
come to the conclusion that‘we’had no tele-
phone, telegraph or electric-light lines; trains,
trains, motor-cars, sheiks, .flappers, or
manufactures; and from at least one ' other
painter he will conclude that we went about
in doublet and hose - and crinolines.- The
reason largely is that the so-called ' art-
lover sets the .fashion that painters follow,
and he.is the most conservative of creatures
Melbourne artist)Cornehls exhibited a paint-
ing, of ,an old. boot a few years ago, and'the
art-lovers Were; scandalised, not at the qual-
ity of the, painting but at the ' Wet
nobody scoffs nowadays at Rembrandt's side
of beef, which is accepted as , a great pic-
ture. Clarice Beckett was, I believe, the
first Australian artist to put a motor-car in
a . Painting, and iL caused a painful sensa-
tion. If a painter’s subjects are always
conventionally picturesque-you can bet your
life he ; has not so much been lqoking at
Nature as studying his bank balance.
“Alcazar”: Success has been achieved in
England by James; Boswell, a 25-year-old
Maorilander who left Auckland; last year
looking for art worlds to conquer. Imperial
Airways, which is making great play with
artistic posters, • commissioned him to do a
couple, and his painting of the. arrival of
the African air mail at Croydon received
high praise from London newspaper; critics.
Boswell has completed a series of black-and-
white sketches of. old London that will
appear in book form shortly. .
Poverty Point
“Props”: “Blue Rioses” was produced
at the London Gaiety by Harry Burcher.
well known in Australia. Frank Free-
man. seen here in “Tilly of Bloomsbury."
and “The Maid iof the Mountains”’ and Lena
Halliday, who also visited this country a
few years ago, were in the cast. The Gaiety
show was presented by Laddie Cliff.
“Wen”: Did anyone sneer at “bush
mechanics”? The Tom brothers, of Manil-
dra (N.S.W.), had the bright idea of launch-
ing out as proprietors of a travelling talkie
show. But when they went into figures re-
garding the cost of a plant they found the
catalogued machines were beyond their
limited means. Not to be thwarted, they
decided to make a plant of their own.
By all the rules, of course, they ought to
have failed dismally, but they didn’t. They
have evolved a perfectly practicable outfit,
and are starting to work a circuit : of 15
villages on.circus lines, carrying a marquee
and running the plant off the engine of their
.truck.
“Cine Ma”: A painful incident occurred
at one . of Melbourne’s million-dollar movie
theatres where it is-the Custom to begin
the evening, session with the National
Anthem. A roll of drums from, a gramo-
phone ostensibly advised the audience that
the ceremony was beginning and many rose
to their feet. They were suffused' with
mortification when the drums resolved
themselves into an American jazz ditty.
Insult was added to injury when two more
American items were followed by the
Anthem proper. In reply to angry protests
by patriots the management hastened to
explain that it was their custom to
commence proceedings with an “overture,”
the Anthem preceding the pictorial part of
the programme. The fact that nine-
tenths of the pictures shown in Melbourne
are of American origin doesn’t seem to
bother the patriots.
“Doric”: Don’t movie-producers know any-
thing about anything? When the heroine
decides to go back to mother she invariably
grabs a suitcase and throws her clothes and
belongings in, in one careless jumble. A man
might, but not a woman. No matter how
large her wardrobe she takes only one small
kitbag, thus holding the mirror up to any-
thing but nature. And in a recent talkie,
when the slovenly welter of clothes came to
be unpacked, 10, everything was neatly folded.
“Cauboy”: It is rumored that if Mr.
Lang succeeds in severing diplomatic rela-
tions with Britain there will be an immediate
move to bring the names of theatres more
in line with. democratic sentiment. Names
like the King’s, li’is Majesty’s, the Royal,
the Palace and the Princess will disappear
and be replaced by such titles as the Prime
Minister, the Minister for Markets and the
Attorney-General. The Trades Union. Secre-
tary will also be in order.


H' B
i
n
u
mm
w i
iH
■ :<
Wm
■
H
.
m
1
■
m
: ■ :,;
m
, v"
ii*
m
SS
sllllli
ISHI
« I i
M
IH
■
sm
m
w&
H
H
.
,v- : '
H
■: <£»&
i .
isfe- yjf-i
BMmU
fifIHBHI ■ ils StosM I i
rani
B
i
H
BB
llfilll : Pt§§ ■ ■:. Ji 1 • ■
■■■■■l
■
liiWMlSißi
Psfii
BBH
<
m
■ i*l
Hi
•iiliiiiiiil
H
ii i
BB
H
■■III
■
m
lilli i
?
■—Bllll ■ I
THE NEW PARISIAN VOGUE
. . . GENUINE GRENADINE
PRESTIGE 505 —GRENADINE. An
exquisite, fine gauge sheer stocking of
the latest Dull Grenadine yarn, pure
Silk throughout, with a dainty coloured
Picot edge. Offered in the following
shades: Sunbronze, Turf Tan, Persian,
Rose Taup, Kaffene, Vogue,
Gunmetal, Buy Prestige 505
with the perfect assurance of
“fashion rightness.” Per pair
\ Mt
1 i\'
I &JL, I I
1 111
PRESTIGE 404 POWDERBLOOM.
Another fashionable dull stocking very
similar to Prestige No. 505 but slightly
heavier in weight. Silk throughout,
except toe-tips and heels - which are of
lisle for extra wear; Picot top. In Sun-
bronze, Turf T an, Rosebloom,
Persian, Kaffene, Rose Taup,
Vogue, Gunmetal, Putty
Beige, Sun Basque. Per pair
9 ii
ẃ
HOSIERY


a
v<
4
?r
v
ONLY
30/-
“THE WILD WEST.”
This fine, Pure Fur Felt Hat has a leaf 3Jir..
wide, cut edge, and'is obtainable in Fawn with
brown band, or Sfeel Grey with self or black
band.
Order yours to-day. In all sizes.
Pike Brothers, Ltd.,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Townsville, Long-reach and Toowoomba.
o
£
EACH
CHOIC
CIGAR
)
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“China Straits”: That yarn of “Syd
Swagman’s” (B. 3/2/’32) about the shark he
tamed for mustering beche-de-mer recalls an
experience of my own with an octopus. I
■was putting in piles for the wharf at Samarai
at the time, and one morning, after a red-hot
MUSTN’T OVERDO OUR PLEASURES
C;AREMCE: “Boo-ooh-oo. I want to go to Uncle ’Arry's funeral. "
MOTHER: “No, you stay with Gladdus. Y’ know you went to the pitchers on Satidday.”
night and a pull-together next morning at
Billy the Cook’s, I put on the dress again and
went down to the job. First thing I knew
an octopus with arms about 15ft. long had
nailed me. I knew it was no use to struggle,
so tickled the creature gently under the chin,
gazing amiably at it through the glasses of
my helmet. The stunt succeeded, and —would
you believe it? —every morning I went down
the thing was there waiting wagging all
its feelers as soon as it caught sight
of me. Everyone knows that the strait
between Samarai and the mainland holds
some of the finest shell in the world, but
because of the depth and the terrible cur-
rents no diver dares to fish it. After a bit,
that octopus would be at the rendezvous every
morning with about two dozen of the finest
shell you ever saw; and a good thing I made
of it. When the job was done I didn’t see my
friend again until one day someone came *o
say a dead octopus had been washed ashore
opposite Mother Platt’s. I recognised the
remains at once and had them accorded
decent burial. The more so because a
German naturalist, who had held tin* post-
mortem. told me it was a lady octopus and
had evidently died of a broken heart.
■!■ *!'
“Avon” : Zane Grey, the Yankee novelist,
who has brought tears to the eyes of thou-
sands with his accounts of men wandering
about deserts with faithful mules and heav-
ing rocks on rhe huts of hectic females, seeks
relief from such narrations by indulging in
deep-sea fishing, which he conducts from the
plush chair’s of bi’ass-bound mahogany
yachts, with electric cranes to pull the fishes
in. He lias acquired many “records,” among
them being the capture in 1925 of a 4501 b.
striped marlin. This has now been beaten
by a Maorilander, J. Mowlem, who has
gathered in a monster weighing 8501 b., 13ft.
Tin. from nose to tail-tip. It is Mr. Grey’s
habit to strenuously dispute any infringe-
ment of his “recoi’ds” —he objected bitterly
to mention in the newspapers of a chap
who caught a bigger mako than he did, on
the ground (and we thought America was
democratic!) that the low fellow caught
fish for a living. As Mowlem. who is
president of the Tauranga Deep Sea Fish-
ing Club, can’t be tarred with that bi'uslx,
Mr. Grey may lodge a protest on the ground
that the fish w’as caught by hand.
❖ * ❖ $
“W.Q.”: A few weeks ago a hoi-se was
observed swimming out to sea from Murder-
ing Point, between the mouth of the John-
stone River and Cardwell (N.Q.). He car-
ried on till he reached King’s Reef, 2£ miles
from the mainland, where he rested in the
shallow water, and then continued on another
2| miles to South Barnard Island, where he
landed and lias lived ever since. There is
a fresh-water spring on South Barnard, the;
water from which takes approximately three
hours to fill a small rocky basin holding
five to six buckets of water, but the high
tides overflow this basin and it is a mystery
how the horse gets a drink. The animal was
bred on Dunk Island, was towed over to
the mainland and there sold, and it is thought
he is endeavoring to return to his birthplace,
which is five miles south of the island he
swam out to. He lias been broken in, but
at present is wild and quite obviously very
lonely. About noon each day he goes for
a swim in the sea, venturing out about half
a mile from land and returning.
“H.C.W.”: As an old traveller down the
Inky Way, I often wonder what became
of all the itinerant comps, who used to visit
country newspaper offices 40 or 50 years
ago. It was surprising how frequently one
of them would
turn up at an
opportune time —
perhaps when the
permanent sta ff
was enjoying his
per i o dical jam-
boree. Amongst
those who came
my way Were Jack
Poole, Charlie
Fysh, Tom Bur-
gess, Billy McLean,
King Cole, Tommy
Shipsides and Wil-
liam Henry Walker,
each of whom could
set a column with-
out a mistake, make
up, pull the press
(usually a demy
Columbian or Al-
bion), do a bit of
jobbing, cast rollers
(using a mixture
of glue and treacle),
and if required
take a turn at re-
porting or writing
paragraphs. They
were all philoso-
phers with a pride-
in their calling, and
not inclined to mix
with other pil-
grims. One of the
number I have
named was the
mildest of men
until he got lit up,
when he became a
sort of human vol-
cano, erupting the
bitterest invective.
On one occasion, on
my telling him that
“he should not
speak to his master
like that,” he re-
torted. with a sting
in every syllable,
“Master? You may
be my employer,
but you certainly
are wot my master.”
The next day he
was himself again
calm, cool, conr-
toons, dropping five sticks an hour of long
primer with the regularity of a machine.
Wherever they are now, I hope they are
happy.
❖ ❖ s|: $
“0.W.W.”: At midnight on New Year’s
Eve the sound of loud booing came from
my neighbor Henare’s whare, where a merry
party had been in progress. Next day I
asked the reason for the discord. Henare
grinned. “Yon hear us,” he said, “hooting
out 1931.”
>* * :Jc
“Mako”: It is perhaps a good thing for
the Maoris that, unlike the Hindoos, they
haven’t so far shown much desire to invade
the ranks of oflice workers, as in commercial
circles a unique temptation awaits Brown
Brother. It ai’ises out of his unusual ability
to imitate with a pen almost any hand-
writing that is presented to him. This accom-
plishment is noticeable in even young Maori
children, and I yet cherish a recollection of
the amazement of a country headmaster who,
having told a smart Maori pupil to copy a
letter, beheld his signature so perfectly repro-
duced that he declared he would have passed
it as his own writing anywhere. But after
school days the youthful Maori mainly seeks
the seclusion of the kajnga and stays there,
his bent being almost entirely towards rural
life and the open air.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Old Dan gave a growl of
delight when he saw my bound volumes of
Bulletins, and started to wade through the
oldest. One drawing, depicting a N.T. citi-
zen seated among a litter of empty bottles and
pointing to the fantods which surrounded him,
made Dan chuckle. Then he got thoughtful
and remarked: “I bet that artist never had a
proper go-in of the horrors himself, or he
wouldn’t have drawn all these ’ere snakes
wearin’ stror hats, ’nd so on. I’ve had ’em
twice meself, and I never seen nothing like
that. I had a big shicker on brandy once—
drank nothin’ else for dam’ near a week—
and I had ’em proper. I thought a reel of
cotton was chasin’ me. That don’t sound
bad, but wait till I tell yer. The publican
shut me up in the dead house, and this ’ere
reel o’ cotton came in. Big as a beer barrel, it
was, and it would stand there grinnin’ at me
for a minute, then chase me round and
round until it grabbed me ; then all the dam’
cotton would come flyin’ off it, wind all over
me, and tickle and itch somethin’ awful.
Fleas was nothin’ to it. I’d pull it all off
at last, and it would roll around the floor
until it was all wound up agen, then spring
at me and chase me agen. The other time I
had ’em I went on the bust and ended by
drinkin’ pinky outer pintpots, and this time
I suddenly felt terrible crook and went to
A BADLY-BUILT ANIMAL.
“Heigh, Maister! Maister! Wheer's dam’ brake?"
have a lie down on the bank o’ the river.
Then all at wunst millions o’ little blue yab-
bies with red spots on ’em come out of the
water and went for me. I couldn’t get away
from ’em no matter how hard I run, and as
fast as I’d pick ’em off others ’d climb up.
It was just like having millions and millions
of ants crawling on yer, bitin’ and ticklin’.”
I told a medical friend about the old boy’s
experiences and he said they were quite
typical. The skin of a d.t. case is in a state
of acute irritation, which causes him to
imagine that all sorts of things are crawling
on him.
*', * * #
“Mawrot”: People said that old Roger had
made his fortune blackbirding. The old
man swore that they were liars, but
in his cups he would admit that in his
very young days he had run a few boys
now and then when other trading was poor.
“But I had my lesson early,” he told me
one night. “Someone must have talked in
port, and just as we were leaving they
came off to search the schooner. I told the
mate to get the anchor dropped again,
took them down to the cabin, and tried to
make them believe there was nothing in the
yarn. They wouldn’t believe me so they
made their search. They could smell boy
everywhere, but there was never a boy
aboard. At last they told jne to up anchor,
leave the port, and not come back again.
While we were weighing anchor something
parted and the old mudliook went to Davy
Jones’s locker. I guess it was in deep
water, but I often used to be uneasy,
wondering whether a diver would get near
it sometime.” “Why?” I asked. “Didn’t
you guess?” he answered. “When the mate
dropped anchor three boys went overboard
with it, wired to the flukes.”
* • ' * ❖ Jj:
“Sucre”: Thirty years back Tullipan’s
circus paraded a hairless horse around the
Isis (Q.) townships. How it got tliat way
w r as long shrouded in mystery, but here’s
the true story. At Childers, the home town
of the Tullipans, the only way the sugar
mills could rid themselves of molasses was
by burying it. Trenches six feet deep and
three feet wide were dug, and the treacle
was emptied into them. Into one of these
gluey graves a horse slipped, and was found
three days later nearly dead. A month later
it had recovered, but every scrap of its hair
save on the head had been destroyed by
the acid in the crude molasses.
THE PROPHECY OF PERKINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Professor Perkins, S. Aus. Director of Agri-
culture, is confident that the price of wheat will
return to ss. a bushel within two or three years.”
Keep a stiff upper lip, all you growers of
grain,
And stout heai’ts ’neath your flannels and
jerkins.
There’s a tui-ning at last in the lengthiest
lane,
And the end will arrive of your stress and
your strain
With wheat at a dollar a bushel again,
Which is firmly predicted by Perkins
Among things that we’ll see
Within years two or three.
He’s never a. doubt of it, Perkins.
Professors too oft are a pessimist folk,
As sour on the palate as gherkins,
Calamity howlers and ravens that croak
Such comfort as Job’s inteidocutors spoke.
But here’s one at least who’s not that sort
of bloke.
“Five shillings a bushel,” says Perkins,
‘You shall have for your wheat,
As is seemly and meet,
Ere the woi’ld is much older,” says Perkins.
May he live to be reckoned a seer of renown
And a tipster for toasting in firkins !
No need to lose faith and dejectedly frown
And grizzle, now wheat in the doldrums -is
down.
He peei’s through the future and secs it a
crown,
As plain as a pikestaff, does Perkins.
And God send he is lfight
And has sound second sight,
Our pleasantly positive Pei-kins.
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


SKYRANE
SPRINKLER IRRIGATION.
SKY-PARROT COUPLINGS.
World’s fastest and most secure.
e
SKYRANE
SPRINKLER.
Quick cover and
no fine passages to
choke up.
Write for full details.
SKY WINDMILL COY.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
Also manufacturers of Australia’s finest-built
windmills.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Cbminonwcaltb Savings JBank of Rustralia
CGuaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
“Barangkali”: A curious feature about
the turtle is its appreciation in weight
during captivity. St. Helena supplies
mpst of those consumed in England, and
before shipment every turtle is weighed and
the weight sent forward. On arrival in Eng-
land they are again put on the scales, and
invariably the turtle is found to 'weigh more
than before dispatch. Yet a turtle has
never been known to eat anything from
the time it has been caught until it comes
into the chefs hands. .
* * *
“Second Barrel”: Victorian landholders
wore ordered by the Government to end
the partial armistice for rabbits and make
a massed attack upon them on Feb. 10.
Poison gas or any other form of warfare out-
lawed by the League of Nations is permitted
as long as the strafe is complete. After an
offensive of about six weeks, the enemies’
dug-outs must be raided and no prisoners
taken. Bunny has been on a polygamous
A PLEASANT PROSPECT.
CITY VISITOR: “Lay the whip on, Boon — I’ll kill you if you miss that train.!”
BOORI : “Mine tinkit you mightn’t have to do it, Boss. That plurry wheel longa your
side come oft sometimes.”
jamboree throughout the State, but the
scandal is worst in the, Mallee. Officialdom
is appalled. It shudders when it thinks of
what might happen if one buck and one doe
survived the big drive. This is because a
textbook on Bunny declares that he. and .ns
light o' love can be responsible, in three
years, in ordinary circumstances, for progenj
numbering 13,700,000. That may be right. 1
think it was Tiie Bulletin which said a few
years ago that a rabbit born this morning
was a grandfather to-night.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: One practical use to which
the missionary aviator of the Anglican mis-
sions in North Australia has put his machine
is in discovering some new rivers and (on
Groote Eylandt) two huge freshwater lakes,
and in exploring the interior of Arnhem
Land. Of greater immediate benefit was the
locating of some fine salt deposits in the
Oenpelli area. Salt is a valuable item to the
native, and the mission uses a quantity tor
salting beef and hides; but the commercial
article was costing £2O a ton. The superin-
tendent had been anxiously scouring the
country for some saltpans he had heard
about, without result. After hearing the tale
of woe, Langford-Smith soared round in his
’plane, and within 40 minutes had spied out
good deposits. Next day men went out with
tools and bags and scraped up over a ton of
fine salt.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: In the happy long ago
the clans of Bungaree were guests
of the King's representative. The “S.M.H. ’
of Jan. 16, 1832, contains a report of the
“black feast,” which was held annually by the
Governor at Parramatta. ‘‘At twelve o clock
the black guests sat down to a plentiful
repast of boiled beef and plum-pudding, which
they washed down with copious libations of
something stronger than ‘bull.’ The Gover-
nor then served out to each female a blanket,
and to the males a suit of blue serge. The
blacks w’ere highly delighted with the enter-
tainment, and from the easy and affable
manner in which the Governor comported
himself towards them they pronounced him
‘murry budgeree.’ ” I don’t know what is
meant by “bull,” but murri budgeree means
“very good.”
* * * *
“Ivatoora”: Wild donkeys are becoming
a nuisance in the partially-fenced area of
northern South Australia. Men run them
down as they do brumbies. The donkey-
hunter is mounted on a sturdy stockhouse,
fitted with a lasso breastplate. He carries
a lasso, and strapped to the side of his
saddle are headstalls, hobbles and side-lines.
When the hunter has run his quarry to an
open stretch of ground ne lassoes it, gradu-
ally choking it down. As soOn as practicable
the headstall, hobbles and side-lines are
buckled securely into place. As a rule don-
keys are sulky, and have to be left for a
few days until hunger brings them to their
senses. As soon as a hunter flas gathered
a tractable mob he drives them to the near-
est saleyards. Donkeys and mules are in
demand for pack and team work on the
rough mountainous tracks in (Jentralia and
parts of South Aus. Round Beltana (S.A.),
the drovers curse the wild mobs, as they
have an uncanny habit of surrounding mobs
of travelling cattle at night; their braying
terrifies the cattle, often causing a stampede.
# v * *
“Walton”: That yarn of the Fijian
fisherman who had his foot badly bitten by
an apparently dead fish (B. 23/12/’3l) has
just been repeated in southern Queensland
waters. Near Tweed Heads a party landed
a large fish, and, as in the Fijian case,
after apparently killing it threw it intothe
bottom of the boat. The brute revived
and bit one of the fishermen so badly that
sinews and an artery in his leg were
severed, necessitating prompt surgical treat-
ment. The fish is described as a “mackerel,”
but the only one of the several so-called
mackerel known in these waters of the si«e
described is the “Spanish mackerel,” which,
DOUBTFUL OF THE SPECIES.
“Mummy, d’you think it’s going to cackle?”
big as it is, and with fairly formidable jaws,
is incapable of inflicting a wound of the
nature reported. The culprit must have
been the big sea-pike known in the tropics
as the barracouda, whose bull-terrier-like
jaws and teeth are more dreaded than those
of any shark in the South Seas by white and
native alike.
* * * *
“Nikko”: A Sydney medico who injected
an irritant into his tomatoes, which were
daily filched by someone un-
known, and then had the satis-
faction of being called in to
minister to the next-door family,
all of whom had become sud-
denly and mysteriously ill, had
a forerunner in a retired civil
servant in a quiet M.L. town-
ship. His trouble was the de-
pletion of his woodpile, which
nightly was raided and gener-
ously drawn on by an unknown
tnief. The old gentleman stood
it for some weeks, when, wood
being scarce and dear, he chose
a likely billet, bored neat holes
in it, and filled them with dyna-
mite. Then he awaited results.
When the village was shaken
about nine o’clock one night by
a loud explosion he was the
only person who did not dash
to the scene of destruction. He
continued to read peacefully
while neighbors rushed in with
tales of the roof being blown off
the cottage of the baker, a
worthy citizen and a pillar of
the church. When the old ’un
heard that the baker was about
to bring an action against a
wood-vendor he remained un-
moved, and when the woodman
paid up without much protest
he still smiled and said nothing.
“Up Top”: Paul Jones, the last white
man to see Lasseter alive, shows promise
of a highly-adventurous life if a nigger’s
spear does not end it prematurely. A run-
away German sailor, he penetrated to the
centre ,of the Australian continent hardly
knowing a word of English. From Alice
Springs he-worked his way 80 miles west
to Hermannsburg mission, where the Luth-
eran brotherhood took care of him for a
while. They supplied him with five camels
and several blackboys, with whom he roamed
the uninhabited central region, dmgo-shoot-
ing. Of a somewhat boisterous disposition,
he lorded it over the wild tribes, he met with,
but lie picked up a lot of their lingo. He
is now in Adelaide after a period of pros-
pecting on the Centralian Arltunga goldfield.
He claims that he knows to within 20 miles
the locality of Lasseter’s reef.
* ' -f * *
“Bombi”: Temperature is ' not the only
factor to be considered wdien laying rails
(B. G/l/’32). Some years ago it was
noticed that at the foot of a long steep
grade on the s.-w. Bananaland line all the
joint spaces had closed. The spikes were re-
moved from one length. The rail remained
firmly in position. A blow with a slogging
hammer caused it to fly out with considerable
force. It was then found that it was six
inches longer than the space from which
it had come. The rails for some distance
had been bent under compression, and had
straightened when the detached length was
released. A ganger had both legs broken
by the flying rail.
* * * *
“J.C.”: “Murrungurry’s” remarks (B.
9/9/’3l) apropos of the beef from work-
ing bullocks leave me cold —at least down
here at Iluancayo in the Peruvian Andes.
The general procedure here is to work the
animal until he is just about to drop and
then steer him to the slaughterhouse,; and
Lord! he’s tough! Incidentally, he is usu-
ally a bull and not a bullock. One week we
found veal in the market. It was so tender
and tasty that the following week we again
asked for veal, only to be met with a sad
shake of the head and the information that
we would have to wait for another automo-
bile accident before we could have veal again.
* * * *
“Paard”: Whatever may be the case in
the cities, the horse still refuses to be sup-
pressed in the wide open spaces of this con-
tinent. Canberra authorities have recently
been much exercised over the mobs of brum-
bies which have sheltered and bred in the
ranges behind the Federal capital since the
first settlement thereabout. 100 years ago.
They have been giving a lot of trouble by
breaking into the Cotter Dam catchment
area, and have in consequence been declared
noxious animals. A number were run in
for a buckjumping show held at the capital
on Australia Day, but there are plenty more
left. Anyone desiring to emulate the Man
from Snowy River or to deal with the out-
laws in any way will receive every encour-
agement from the Canberra bigwigs.
“MANANNA.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I don’t go in for readin’ much,” said Bill,
and squatted in the shade;
“This farmin’ takes a lot of time; besides,
me eyes won’t make the grade.
Wot’s more, them lovey-dovey yarns are apt
to give a man a pain;
But I’ve just struck a bonzer book about
the blokes who live in Spain.
A swarthy, sleepy push they are —as far
as I can see, their lurk
Is makin’ love to fiery tarts, or scheming
ways of dodgin’ work.
An’ there’s a word they use a lot, ‘mananna,’
when they w r ant to say
Ter-morrow will do jist. as well for jobs that
should be done to-day.’
“There’s lots of blokes who live round 'ere,
an’ don’t know any foreign words,
That, take my tip, are mighty like them
easy-goin’ ’ Spanish birds.
You’ll notice ’ow they let things slide an’
see their places go to pot,
Their sheds an’ stables failin’ in, their
fences down, as like as not,
While all their tools are lost or broke, their
’arness tied with wire an’ string;
Each way you look there seems to be a
sort of blight on everything.
Still, if you drop a warnin’ word, they’re
always quick to see your point,
An’ say, ‘You’re right, I’ll ’ave to start an’
straighten up the flamin joint..’
“ ‘Perhaps ter-morrow afternoon, I’ll set to
W’ork,’ you'll ’ear them say;
An’ that’s the end of it, of course, but that
’as never been my way.
I'm not the rusliin’, tearin’ kind that runs
round full of -wind and fizz.
Yet wdien there’s jobs ahead of me, well,
‘Do it now,’ my motter is.
But, anyway, it’s gettin’ late; I’ll bet it’s
nearer four than three;
’Ahg up your ’orse an come along—-the
wdfe’ll make a cup of tea.
I should have moved them blasted sheep,”
said Bill, as up he slowdy rose,
“But now that job wall ’ave to wait until
ter-morrow, I suppose.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
~ GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
m
UM
mM
SUPER SHIPS
CATERING to those who demand per.
lection in ocean travel, the Canadian
Pacific Fleet of Empress, Duchess and
“M” Class Steamers provide service,
comforts and pleasures of a new order.
On any of these ocean-going palaces
Australia to, England travellers learn
how complete, reliable and delightful are
C.P.R. travel arrangements. Illustrated
literature sent free on request
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
5/31.2
C.P.K. Steamers take
the sheltered St. Law*
rence seaway, and cut
two days off the open
Atlantic crossing.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS • HOTELS
ZJhe Worlds Greatest Drove! System
SMOKE-OH!
LAST STRAW.
The driver-owner viewed his tyres,
Each flat as any Jach Lang promise,
And sighed, “It seems that Fate conspires
With Mr. Lang to take things from us;
They’ve taxed our wages, taxed our sales,
Taxed everything a man requires;
And now — well, frankly, language fails;
They’re even tacks-ing motor-tyres.”
* *
Man rips; woman sews.
* *
“Mr. Lang’s latest plan is likely to prove un-
acceptable.”— “S.M.H.” -
Quite true. It’s certain to be going
begging.
' * *
“There have been demonstrations against nudism
on the South Coast.”
It sounds like much ado about nothing.
* *
The Government is talking of a prohibi-
tive duty on cosmetics, but the women won’t
countenance it.
* #
“Does the average man prefer thin girls or
stout ?”— “World.”
The office misanthrope says he prefers
stout, but whisky is, of course, his drink.
if- if
“What is the use of sending one’s daughters to
Europe to ‘finish’? There’s nothing for them to do
when they come home.” —Melbourne hostess.
A ease of one’s chickens coming home to
rust.
if. >f.
“Thousands motor nowadays, though they have
no means.”
It’s known as flivving by one’s wits.
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
ONE: “I’m awfully sorry for girls who can’t get on with their husbands."
TWO: “I have no trouble with mine—he’s an angel.”
THREE: “You are lucky. Mine is terribly healthy.”
“What exactly is it that a woman gets out of a
new frock ?” —Fashion query.
Most- of herself, as a rule.
BUMPING-OFF BHOMPUS!
At the Soviet Sessions to-day Elbert
Oswald Bhompus was charged before Judge
Bill McHaggarty with being an habitual
property-owner, and, ipso facto, without
lawful means of support.
The evidence revealed that accused had
invested certain moneys in property return-
ing rent. On this he was alleged to have
lived until the institution of the dole, when
his tenants naturally began to default.
Accused swore that he had not always
been without means. He had once received
3s. lOd. from a tenant whose name he re-
fused to divulge. He did not wish the man,
who was ill and had a family of nine to
support, to get into trouble. He denied that
said tenant was drunk at the time of such
payment.
For the prosecution, a number of wit-
nesses swore on the Red Flag that in up-
wards of 10 years’ occupation of properties
owned by Bhompus they had never paid
him a penny in rent. Before they would
depart from their Communistic principles,
declared several, they would see the old cow
well and truly stonkered. (Applause, in
which his Honor joined.)
The accused declined a challenge from the
Bench to prove that he had spoken in the
Domain, organised for the World Revolution,
or done any other useful service for the
Commune in the past 12 months. He was sen-
tenced to be hanged, quartered and publicly
eviscerated in Martin-place on the 27th inst.
Tickets for ring-side seats will be drawn for
by the Judge’s associate at the Town Hall
on the 15th inst.
* *
“Hot weather turns the thoughts of the male
sex to the subject of clothing.” — “S. M. Herald.”
In the summer male perceptions are in-
creasingly expressed
In the nicest and the nattiest way a fellow
can be dressed;
Quaint sartorial innovations fire the hearts
of hunts and bloods;
In the summer young men’s fancies lightly
turn to thoughts of duds.
it- if-
“ There were cognate reasons for the man’s dis-
missal.”—“Sun.”
In many cases these are cognac reasons.
* *
“‘Women who parade the streets in bathing cos-
tumes invite criticism,’ says a parson.”
The minxes don’t seem to care a wrap.
* ¥
It is very easy for Mr. Lang and Mr.
Bruce to touch each other on the roar.
REST CURE.
The doctor’s face was grave. “You’ve
been putting an undue strain upon your
constitution,” he ad-
monished, “and it is
imperative that you
cut down the pace.
Keep it up and I
won’t answer for the
consequences. At all
costs, you must have
rest —complete rest.
You’re on the verge of
a breakdown.”
“Well,” said his
patient, “I’ll admit
I’ve been making the
pace a cracker during
the last three weeks.
Yes, it’s been a pretty
wild holiday, Doc.
Anyway, it’s over now,
and I start work again
at the office on Mon-
day. That’ll give me
the leisure you pre-
scribe. I’m a civil
servant.”
“The suicide left a letter, saying he hoped to
escape innumerable applications for loans of money.”
He was probably thinking 0 f the line:
O, Death! Where is thy sting?”
* lit'
“An old piece of China, even if broken, may be
very valuable.”— “S.M.H.”
Which explains why the Japs are so eager
to pick up some of those old pieces.
CYCLE OF THE SPOTTING LADY.
“Oh, my head! Never again ! I’m cutting
the spots out for good after this. It’s your
fault, Tom. Why do you let me drink? Do
run out and get a bottle of lager, darling—
I must have some, just to pull me together
again. Don’t be silly, dear. It’s not lager
that does the harm; it’s spirits. I’m all
right as long as I keep off spirits.”
(Interval of three days.)
“Ob, my head! Never again do I touch
wine as long as I live. What I feel I
need new is a glass of stout; stout is a food;
all the doctors say so. Not like that wretched
wine, which I never mean to look at again.
Oh, my head! It feels as if it would
explode. Get the stout at once, Tom, or I’ll
die.”
(Interval of three day ft.)
“Oh, my head! Never again.... The
chemist told me last night that I ought to
keep off stout and lager; that they were
poison to people with constitutions like mine.
He said whisky was what I should drink,
and I’m sure lie’s right. I’d give anything
for a drop of whisky now, just to pull me
THE LAST WORD.
THE WIFE: “Well, you proposed to me seven times before I
accepted you — didn’t you?”
HUBBY: “Yes, and then my luck gave out.”
round. Do run out and get one of those
small flasks, dear, though if you’ve got the
money a bottle would be cheaper in the long
run.”
* *
“There is one dentist who insists upon calling his
dental rooms his ‘studio.’ ” — “World.”
Why not? He draws teeth there, doesn’t
he?
“A card-player usually has an eager face.”— “SunS’
With a whist-ful expression.
* *
HAPPY AUSTRALIA.
(Extract from London “Times,” Jan. .1,
1965.)
Professor Jones, of Oxford, painted an
amazing picture of life in N. S. Wales when
he returned from Australia to-day. The
Professor—an Australian by birth—was so
impressed with the conditions prevailing in
his homeland that
he intends to resign
his position here
and return to Syd-
ney as soon as pos-
sible.
Seventy per cent,
of the inhabitants
are on the dole,
said the Professor,
and there are men
who have not.
worked since the
great statesman
Mr. Jack Lang
first came into
power 35 years
ago. Under the
new economic order
the poor are rich,
while those who
have the misfor-
tune to be in work
provide the funds
out of which the
Government feeds
the un e m ployed.
For example, a man
earning £2O a week
pays a total levy of
£l9 a week for
family endowment,
the dole, unemployed insurance and the upkeep
of the railways, on which a 4-hour week is
remunerated on a 48-hour week basis. The
toiler is entitled to the remainder of his
money, but as eggs cost 12s. a dozen and
meat (where procurable) fl a pound, it
does not go far. To prevent a dislocation
of the economic system Mr. Lang has passed
a bill making it compulsory for all non-
unionists to retain their employment if they
want to.
In Australia, the Professor went pn, the
dole standard has long replaced the obsolete
gold, standard. Dole coupons are the sole
mediums of exchange. A man with a large
family is in a happy position, as the bene-
volent Government provides him with a
horse and cart to transport his food to his
home after he lias traded his dole coupons at
the stores. A bonus of ten loaves of
broad and two tins of asparagus is paid
when each child is
born, as well as a
special letter from the
Premier.
Race meetings
(horse, pony, dog, cat,
hare, rabbit, etc.) oc-
cur day and night, in-
cluding Sundays, but
the bookmakers have
fallen on evil days. The
Leviathan penciller Ike
Levy recently suicided
when a client who had
backed a winner to the
tune of a hundred-
weight of butter re-
fused to accept a truck
of potatoes in lieu of
the butter, which had
melted. The first prize
for the State lottery is
a crate of eggs. In-
stead of the usual gold
cup the trophy for the
Sydney Cup this year
was a pound of
tomatoes. Hence the
so-called Union Club
Scandal. A member
who was also an
A.J.C. committeeman,
finding himself in the
presence of the trophy
shortly before it was to
be presented by the
veteran State Gov-
ernor Sir James
Devine, was overcome
by hunger and ate it.
Sir James recom-
mended him for an
0.8. E. Yet the club
expelled him.
Professor Jones
spoke highly of the
political harmony that
exists in New South
Wales to-day. The patriarch Premier, Mr.
Lang, is beloved by his subjects, and every
loyal home contains his bust, executed in
piecrust. The last articulate disloyalist was
disposed of many years ago under the famous
Vagrancy Act Reform Act (1932), which
imposes deportation for all critics of the
Administration.
The Legislative Council, being a bar to the
people’s progress, was abolished years ago.
The offices of the late “S. M. Herald,” which
was rash enough to oppose the policy of the
Premier, are now used as a depot from which
free beer is distributed to the unemployed.
* *
FAULTED?
“She left because of my tennis-playing,”
—Melbourne divorce petitioner.
No longer did connubial bliss
Appeal; lie could not get her bach. It
Appears that why she left was this —
She simply couldn’t stand the racquet!'
HIS PAY ROLL.
“Mr. Lang seizes everything upon which he can
lay his hands';” — “S. M. Herald
Some of his legislation has even taken our
breath away.
# *
“i n Divorce Court a woman said her husband
who held old-fashioned views put irritating sub-
stances in her cosmetics and mimicked her manners.”
Trifled with her affectations, in short.


BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting’ you. The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—B-i hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY' FOR LUXURY’, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
m
Soon - the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
NO EXCHANGE.
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87671,
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
UNION
LINE.
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS v ’
h[eu) esfyeffer'”' a ' ers '
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN POSTAGE METERS.
’"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 21764/25 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the. invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney,
Murdochs
Faultless
Tailoring
/
f
***■' >■w',
Have you ordered your
suit for ?
HTIME flies—and Easter, with its joys and festivities,
will soon be upon us. Now is the time to order
your Made-to-Measure Suit from Murdoch’s. Excellent
quality, all-wool Worsteds and Thornproof Tweeds,
in attractive designs and colorings; also Indigo-dye
Serges in fine Twill and
Herringbone weaves. WON-
DERFUL “MILL-TO-
WEARER” VALUE
01X3
Other distinctive Suits to Measure in all-wool Worsteds, Thorn-
proof Tweeds and Indigo Dye Serges.
£4/4/- £4/19/6 £5/13/9
Suits of superlative quality for Men, hand-finished to measure.
£6/5/- £6/19/6 £7/15/-
Send this
Coupon
for FREE
Patterns .
Desk “R,”
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs. — Kindly forward me, without obligation, com-
prehensive range of Suiting Patterns at “Mill-to-Wearer”
prices
NAME
ADDRESS
& \
YOUR EASTER HAT
Murdoch’s “Akooka”-quality Australian-made
Pure Fur Felt Hats for Men, in color tones of
Light or Dark Greys, Fawns, new
Browns, Beaver and Black. All
sizes. WONDERFUL VALUE . .
18'9
Also “Stralino”-quality Pure Fur Felt
Hats for Men. Silk lined, too! ....
25/-
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address letters to Desk “R.”
Mwindtocfe ][«# Sydinuew)
— Z.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.’
SHADOW SHOWS.
The events of Fox’s “The Yellow Pass-
port,” at Sydney Plaza, occur in Russia
shortly before the World War. Elissa Landi
is Marya, a Ghetto Jewess, though yori
mightn’t think it to look at her Patou
frocks and West End shoes, and listen to
her Mayfair voice. In order to see her
father, who is languishing in gaol, a victim
of anti-Semitic prejudice, she registers as a
member of the oldest profession. A Yellow
Ticket, it seems, entitled the holder to
travel to any part of Russia under the Czars.
She reaches the prison to find her parent
dead, gets a lucrative job as traveller for
a perfumery firm, and strikes up an
acquaintance with a young American jour-
alist on a train. She is able to help him
in his exposures of the Czarist regime,
which she claims to know “from the dregs,”
and love soon burgeons. Enter Baron
Andrey, chief of the secret police, whom
Lionel Barrymore plays as 'a wine-bibbing
drug addict, part rake, part pantaloon —a
great study. Marya is brought to him by
an emissary. While in his rooms she learns
that her lover is to be sent to Siberia for his
journalistic activities. The baron’s depart-
ment was to blame for her father’s death ;
his vile designs on her virtue are only too
evident, and he is rash enough to show her
his collection of weapons with which pre-
vious victims attempted his life. What more
natural and ethical than that she should
shoot him? She has hardly escaped, and
rejoined the journalist, when war is declared,
and they have the luck to find a 1932 pas-
senger ’plane waiting to waft them to safety
and matrimonial bliss, Barrymore’s acting
is the feature of the show. Baron Andrey
is a stock melodrama villain, without a
redeeming moral quality and with nothing
notable to say, but the American star man-
ages to turn him into an often credible and
always interesting human being. As a recon-
struction of the period the play is, of course,
worthless. Strange that a producer, after
going to vast trouble and expense to get his
streets, uniforms, interiors and small-part
players right, should let his atmosphere be
ruined for the gratification of Miss Landi’s
Bright Young Thing Complex!
* * #
“Madame Julie” (Radio), the before-
interval film at Sydney Regent, has as its
backgrounds a New York ragshop and a mil-
lionaire’s residence. Its chief interest for
Australian audiences lies in the presence of
O. P. Heggie as John Whitcomb, a man of
wealth. Whitcomb has taken for a second
wife Julie, a young Parisian mannequin,
who is frowned upon by Whitcomb’s highly-
respectable friends, and openly disliked by
his daughter Doris and son Victor. The
news of the father’s second marriage so
upsets the son that he runs away from col-
lege. Julie, in order to prove that she didn’t
marry AVhitcomb for his money, starts a
dressmaking business' This involves fre-
quent visits to Europe. While returning from
one of these jaunts she meets a young man
travelling under the name of Paul Niles. They
fall in love. On reaching home Julie finds
the Whitcombe family bustling with prepara-
tions for the return of the absent son, whom
she has not met; he, of course, turns
out to be Julie’s shipboard lover, beneath
his father’s roof the son pursues the step-
mother, whlo, like the late George Reid, adopts
a yes-no attitude. The scandalised Dons
sees and knows all, but Whitcomb, senior, is
apparently blissfully ignorant of the whole
affair. After a procession of tearful scenes
the son invites Julie to run away with him,
but Julie decides to stick to her husband.
O. P Heggie filled his part satisfactorily.
Lily Damita, as Julie, had plenty of scope
for* her talents, and Lester Vail’s acting as
the prodigal son was brisk and clean-cut.
¥ * *
“Side Show” (First National), at the top
of the bill at Sydney Haymarket, introduces
Winnie Lightner in the role of a strong-
willed young woman who runs a circus for
its drunken proprietor. She looks after her
employer during his drinking bouts, pacifies
the squabbling performers and takes the place
of the fire-diver, the hula dancer, the canni-
bal and the bearded lady when these persons
fail to put in an appearance. In the midst of
her activities she finds time to conduct an
affair with the barker, a sullen fellow who
gambles away all her earnings. Her young
sister joins the show during a school vaca-
tion and alienates the affections of the
barker. The sisters have words over the
worthless fellow and the younger one
elopes with him. In the end he returns to
the elder, having handed the other back to
her family. The love' story, however, is of
secondary importance; the film’s interest
centres in the intimate picture it gives of
various phases of circus life. Miss Lightner
is* at her best in swashbuckling moments,
though she handles more sentimental passages
well. Charles Butterwortlx contributes an
amusing study of an ineffectual seal-trainer
who is hopelessly in love with Winnie.
Evalyn Knapp as the young sister and
Donald Cook as the barker are passable,
and Guy Kibbee.could hardly be bettered as
the tipsy proprietor. Dialogue is full of
humor.
* * *
In “Sporting Blood” (M.-G.-M.), at Syd-
ney St. James, a brood mare crashes into
a muddy pool, breaks a leg, and, when
studowner Rellence (Ernest Torrence) finds
her some minutes later, her prematurely-
born foal is standing by her side. Called
Tommy Boy, he has grown into a fast young-
ster when Rellence parts with him. The
horse gets into the hands of arch-gambler
Tip Scanlon (Lew Cody). When the steed,
jaded, begins to lose races, he is doped.
Scanlon is wiped out when the nag fails to
win in spite of dope, and Ruby (Madge
Evans), Scanlon’s woman, inherits the
horse. She takes him back to Rellence, and
in the blue-grass country of ol’ Kaintuck’
horse and woman are reclaimed. The gee-
gee is entered for the Kentucky Derby.
His jockey is bribed to pull him. But Rel-
lence is warned by a gangster (Clark Gable)
who loves Ruby. To circumvent the rider
the reins are cut half-through. In the race
they snap and the horse runs away to win.
Nat Gould used a little more origin-
ality in framing his deathless romances.


I
The
“TITON”
Compression
Coupling
For Copper Tube Connections
Made in Straight Couplings, Elbows
and Tees
The advantage of the Titon Compression Coupling over other couplings
is its special design, which ensures a perfect joint by simply tightening the
nut. No loose rings (to be mislaid) nor packing required.
NOTE: All Fittings are screwed Standard Gas Thread, and any end can thus
be fitted direct to Wrought-iron Pipe Socket, if desired.
For Plumbers’ Lead and Brass Work
And all Plumbers’ Supplies
See our DASPYL Catalogue.
Daspyl Brasswork is favored by the leading craftsmen throughout the Com-
monwealth. The high reputation all Daspyl lines hold in this country and
beyond our shores is fully justified by the quality of goods bearing the name
of DASPYL.
Catalogue post free on request.
gntmttimii
imts
I JOHN
&S0N1
niiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiii
imiiiimiimiimE
LTD
pT*
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY HARBOUR
BRIDGE
OFFICIAL SOUVENIR
AND PROGRAMME OF
THE OPENING AND CELEBRATIONS
The Souvenir is a work of
Art, containing one hun-
dred and eighty pages,
illustrated with beautiful
Photographic Studies de-
picting not only the Bridge
in its various stages of
construction, but also
many charming Harbor,
City and Country scenes.
The letterpress contained
in the Souvenir is of His-
toric Interest.
The Souvenir may be
obtained at all Bookstalls,
Booksellers and News-
agents, price 2/- (posted
sd. extra), or from the
distributors:
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Market & Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
e
Tired-out with constant pain, limbs like pieces
of lead, back aching, swollen joints, sharp, shooting
pains—thousands know these symptoms too well.
The remedy, we confidently assert, is De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
There is no need to describe to sufferers the
pain and crippling agony caused by rheumatism.
Those with swollen joints, twitching muscles, con-
stant aching back, know these symptoms only too
well. What they do not know is that to neglect
rheumatism may quickly lead to serious heart-
weakness. Do you know that the majority of
cases of heart-failure, especially in elderly people,
is due to rheumatic trouble?
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR
PAIN.
You will never end rheumatism until you
prompt the kidneys to cleanse from the system the
pain-giving, heart-affecting poisons—and this, on
the evidence of thousands, yes, many thousands, of
one-time sufferers restored to health, we say De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will do for you.
To every intelligent man or woman we say:
“Do you think that for 40 years De Witt’s Pills
could have been sold the world over for the one
purpose of ending kidney trouble unless this
remedy was successful?’’
THIS REMEDY BEARS A
DEFINITE GUARANTEE.
Do you know that every bottle
of De Witt’s Pills sold carries a
definite money-back guarantee?
If, within 24 hours from starting
to take these pills regularly, you
do not see that, they are acting
directly through the kidneys, re-
turn partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full, by return.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not
a “cure-all.” They are made from a prescription
(clearly printed on each box) solely for the pur-
pose of remedying kidney trouble—-the cause of
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, bladder weakness,
chronic backache and the weakness and loss of
vitality caused by impoverished blood.
De Witt’s Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed. Men and women
in dreadful pain for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them health, strength and
vigor in a marvellously short time. They have
proved an “untold blessing” to thousands. Start
to-day, secure a 3/6 box and let it end your weak-
ness, your fear of hidden health dangers.
;• • &.-S
mm
mm
m
y.:::
Mmm
w&
.
v w \\ A A \ \ > 11 11111ill/////////////'.
DeWITTS
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
PILLS
ACUTE RHEUMATISM ENDED.
Hr. ALBERT HAYSOM,
of Heath Hill, South Gipps-
land, Vi?., says: "Whilst I
was on active service I
suffered great pain from
Rheumatism. I was treated
in many hospitals, but it was
not till I tried De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills
that I had any relief. I have
had no sign of the Rheu-
matism since and am indeed
grateful that my friend
advised me to try De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.”


WA/' i
/ ufc- iKGci
2V/ f
\ a , J "•
v'.-i
I/s
EASTER, 1932. .
Opening of the Sydney Harbour BRIDGE
One of the greatest events in Australia’s History! The
Hotel is filling rapidly—make reservations now to avoid
possible disappointment.
Reduced Tariff on a “Room Only’’ basis gives visitors
the benefit oj our lowered costs.
Single Room . . . . 10/6 per day
Double Room . . . . 20/- per day
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
NEW
Room
Only
<h re ■*
RATES
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
Reduced Tariff
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
BREEDING FLYrROOF SHEEP.
“Yalcrin” : It has always been my conten-
tion that the blowfly plague can only be ended
by 'rendering sheep immune from attack. This
may be done by remedying defects of consti-
tution, by changing certain conformations and
by eliminating diseases that make the sheep
attractive to the fly. The matter has been
mentioned in The Bulletin before, and
several N.S.W. stud-breeders are now devot-
ing themselves to breeding along lines with
the definite object of producing a sheep which
will not be subject to attack.
Prior to the wholesale introduction in the
late ’seventies and early ’eighties of the
greasy, heavily-yolked American-Vermont,
blowfly trouble, so far as I can remember,
was practically confined to diseased sheep.
It was a very rare thing to find a sheep in
a healthy flock struck. Crossing the Aus-
tralian merino with the Vermont evolved a
strain particularly attractive to the fly. Head
wrinkles which came under the eyes made a
pocket which collected the moisture; folds
under the chin gathered the seed, causing
sihall ulcers full of pus ; the tail and thigh
wrinkles were repositories for urine and
excrement, and the yolk exuded from the
skin had some quality, that drew, the fly.
Having made a habitat of this wrinkly, ill-
formed and poorly constitutioned animal, the
fly extended its operations to the plain-bodied
types.
There are still a few men who breed these
wrinkly atrocities in the belief that they
add density to the wool. It’s going to take
time and patience to break the fly off the
bad habit of making maternity homes in
sheep, but it can and will be done.
BABY BEEF.
“W.D.M.C.”: I fully endorse “Poley’s”
remarks on baby beef (B. 20/1/’32). For a
long time I have been of the opinion that even
on really good country baby beef will show
a bigger net profit than the ordinary dairy
cow, and that without the labor of milking
Strawberry twice daily, A good, dairy cow
can rear two vealers at the one time, and it
is easy to get the cow to take the second
calf. ’ The resultant vealers at “Poley’s”
price—not a high one—would give a return
of £l3 in nine months. It takes a good cow
to show a better net return than that "with-
out the labor of milking, plus the value of
the dairyman’s time; this he could devote
to effecting improvements or working out-
side, whichever pays best. There are always
plenty of bull calves to be bought from dairy-
ihen who do not rear them, at skin price or
a little better.
To get the cows to take vealer No. 2 you
need a coupling chain with a swivel in the
centre, and two strong neck-straps—a piece
of light rope or greenliide w T ill do. Couple
No. 2 to No. 1 and put them in a clear pad-
dock where they cannot get caught or tangled
up. In a few days the cow will take to No. 2,
and the coupling can be removed and the
process repeated. I have never had casual-
ties, and a good cow will rear two as well as
one: but she must have good grazing.
The day of the six- or seven-year-old 1000-
pound ox has gone, or nearly so. Baby beef
has come to stay, and the demand will in-
crease. Small joints are what the consumer
overseas wants, and the export trade can
absorb any number of prime calves. All the
hull calves should be castrated before they
are a month old. They will not suffer a
setback at that age, and as steers they will
not grow staggy and will kill Well.
PECULIARITIES OF SUB. CLOVER.
: “Agrarian”: Sub. clover was fust seen, in
Australia by A. W. Howard, near a spring
at the foot of Mount Barker (S.A.) in
1888. He was attracted by its. strong growth
and became an advocate of its virtues for
the rest of his life. Sub. clover varies in
quality; but, as Brunnich, the Government
Analyst of Queensland, showed, the same is
true of lucerne grown on different soils.
Mr. Marshall, who sold his Adelaide store
to Myers, bought a .place on the. Vie. border,
reasoning that the astonishing improvement
in carrying capacity effected at Mt. Barker
could be repeated there. He was right. A
couple of years ago he attended a field day
in Scotland and a learned professor lectured
on the wonderful sub. clover from Australia.
Mr. Marshall does not plough his land. He
believes in retaining as much as possible of
the native grasses (and the clover likes a
hard seed-bed). He has erected a house of
Mt. Gambier limestone and the wastage from
the blocks has markedly influenced the growth
of rye grass. _ ,
On some flats in Vic. near Penola, where
lime is plentiful, sub. clover will not grow.
Yet it will grow with almost no lime and it
can adapt itself to very poor soil. Its real
merit lies in its power to digest plant toon
held in the soil in refractory forms.
A LUCERNE MARVEL.
“Loomala”: There is nothing wonderful
in Ac fact that “Saliva” .(B. 27/l/’32) has
been successful in establishing large -areas
of lucerne without following the orthodox
methods of preparing the seed-bed Lucerne
is a hardier plant than most folks realise.
It mav be found growing under most unusual
conditions. In Southern Monaro some years
ago a grazier who had a nice little pro-
perty told me of a patch of lucerne ( he had
established without ploughing. "And i
sowed the seed without going into the pad-
dock,” he added. ‘‘Come along and see it. _
My host explained that a lot of his good
country was stony, but he had noticed m
places that lucerne lv’d among the stones.
Selecting a paddock of a few acres near the
homestead, he set out to experiment. Alus-
tering some sheep in full wool, and packing
them tight in a yard, he threw the seed on
their baeks and turned them into the pad-
dock. This happened a couple of years prior
to my visit. Going over the area, I saw
few bare patches, and the plants were equal
to anvtliing, as far as the crowns were con-
cerned. It was entirely a grazing proposi-
tion, for no mower would have gone five
yards over the stones.
A STOCK LICK FOR W.A.
The Westralian Department of Agricul-
ture is impressing on wheat-belt farmers the
necessity of giving their stock a good plios-
phatic lick. One of its officers reports that
“every summer there is a very considerable
mortality among cattle, sheep and pigs as
a result of mineral deficiency,” and points
out that the need for adding phosphates to
the-feed is just as great as the need for
adding super, to the soil. Dry herbage con-
tains only half the phosphates green feed
contains. " Unless this deficiency is made
good the animals will chew bones or car-
rion, or both, and perhaps contract dry-
bible, which kills many wheat-belt cattle; or
they may lose condition and become sterile.
Westralian conditions are peculiar. lodine
is unnecessary. The wheat country is
threaded by dry salt lakes, and the lake salt
is relished bv stock; but salt is not enough.
The formula recommended by the department
is ground rock phosphate, 331 b.; basic super.,
331 b.; salt, 331 b.; molasses, 131 b.; total,
1121 b Farmers with supplies of lake salt
handy can mix the lick themselves. The
quantities recommended are: Milking cows,
in their feed, 4oz. to soz. daily; young pigs,
Ito 2 teaspoonfuls daily in feed; full-growm
pigs, 1 tablespoonful. Sheep may be given
free access to feeders.
“For cattle not hand-fed, double the quan-
tity of molasses. Place the lick in a feeder
near watering-places,” the department says.
“Once they have commenced taking it
readily, feed straight,”
MILKING-STOOLS.
“Booraby”: In many dairies a woodblock,
sawn off a small log, is used for a stool. It
is a heavy and awkward thing to shift
about, and is not always firm on an uneven
floor. Another makeshift is a small case or
box, which soon becomes ricketty, and is
then apt to collapse at an unexpected
moment.
By most cow-farmers small stools are
used, varying from one leg to four legs. The
one-leg lias a small round seat, with the
single peg in the centre, and is strapped to
the milker, so that he never loses any time
in handling it. and it is always where he
wants to sit. But it is not comfortable, being
rocky; and when a man lias many cows to
milk, morning and afternoon, he needs com-
fort. Four legs on a stool are unnecessary;
they add to the weight, and don’t fit with-
out some adjustment on an uneven floor.
A two-legged stool is the best of all. For
this take a piece of hardwood, about 9in.
square and
opposite holes with a l-l-inch auger.
Into one of the holes fit the butt end of a
fork, cut from a limb of an ironbark- or box-
tree, sawing the prongs off square and at
the required height; and in the other hole
drive a straight peg of the same height.
Though actually the stool has three ground
supports, only two auger holes are needed,
and it sets firmly on almost any uneven
floor. For greater convenience in handling,
cut a slit for the hand in the centre of the
seat. , . , . .
Another handy seat is made with a single
prop of softwood, about 2in. square, fitted
into a mortise hole 14in. square in the centre
of a softwood seat, and the bottom end
tenoned in the same way into a similar piece
of softwood or light hardwood. This is a
double-ended seat, light and secure, but
requires a level floor. ,
A good makeshift may be contrived from
an empty oildrum. Cut off the top part to
the height reouired, and fit in a nine top,
nailing it all round with clouts; then cut a
handhold in the centre of the seat. An old
galvanised bucket, with a wooden seat fitted
inside the bottom band, serves as well. Either
will stand firmly on any uneven ground.
SECOND-HAND ENGINES.
“Kripple”: Before buying a second-hand
engine from a discarded motor-car to harness
to shearing and pumping outfits the
prospective buyer should think hard, vv hat
may seem a bargain will in many cases prove
to be otherwise. Car engines generally have
from 20 to HO h.p.—much more than is
required on stations or farms for stationary
work —and their use may mean so many
gallons of petrol being vaporised and puffed
into the atmosphere for no useful purpose.
I came across a 40-h.p. four-cylinder
engine set up at a shed to drive six shearmg-
maenines when 4 h.p. would have been ample.
I have also seen old car engines varying in
power from 20 to 30 h.p. doing from 4 to 10
h.p. jobs. The purchasers had been blinded to
fuel consumption and upkeep by. low first cost
as compared with price of a single-cylinder,
heavy-type, slow-running engine correctly
designed for the job. Too late many have dis-
covered that old high-speed car engines with
excessive power, multiple cylinders, pistons,
valves, spark-plugs and so on to keep in
order are not suitable for light stationary
duties. , , ,
When a second-hand engine must be sought
let it be of the correct type and horse-power
for the job. For emergency purposes old
.car engines have their uses, and may be
applied to overcome various difficulties, but
for general use they cannot be recommended.
APPLES, PEARS AND PRICES.
In a series of articles in the Vic. “Jour-
nal of Agriculture,” E. Meeking, one of the
Government fruit inspectors, tells growers,
with refreshing candor, that they are not
doing enough to place their fruit on over-
seas markets in the best possible condition.
His words are primarily addressed to Vic-
torians, but they have a certain application
to orchardists in other States. On a visit
to overseas markets, Mr. Meekling received
complaints regarding the appearance and
condition of Victorian fruit, and was satis-
fied that there was cause for them. Deal-
ing particularly with apples he says : ‘lf
they were carefully harvested, packed, and
transported, selected for uniformity in color,
and at a stage of maturity to ensure a con-
tinuation of the ripening processes, and :f
they were pre-cooled to a sufficiently low
temperature to ensure that the machinery on
the transporting ship would be enabled to
maintain a uniform temperature in the hold,
most of the causes, for the complaints would
be removed.” ~. , a
Experts assured Mr. Meeking that m flavor
and quality our best varieties of apples and
pears are possibly unequalled”; but they
are not properly prepared for market. In
the matter of grading, packing, handling and
transport, organisation is. lacking. In Cali-
fornia and British Columbia local packing
units are affiliated with district exchanges,
which in turn are represented in a central
exchange; and this system works admirably.
The necessity of pre-cooling fruit intended
for long-distance transport has been recog-
nised for years in these countries and others,
but it is still questioned by a section of
growers in Australia. Ample facilities exist
for pre-cooling all fruit shipped from Vic-
toria overseas; they are by no means gener-
ally availed of.
Fruit sent to Europe from. British Colum-
bia Oregon, Washington and California has
to be railed 3000 miles before it is shipped
at an Atlantic port. Considerable time is
saved compared with the transport of Aus-
tralian fruit, but freight charges are practi-
cally the same. In other days our apples
and pears, on arrival in British and Conti-
nental markets and for some time after-
wards, had the field to themselves. . This
condition no longer exists;. our fruit, has
to compete, in particular, with stored fruit
from the U.S.A.; the “spill-over from home
consumption of by far the largest apple-
producing country of the w r orld ; hence,
low prices. So better organisation we must
have —better organisation and “a pack of
high commercial repute.”
PICKING THE BREEDERS.
“JA.S.”- The cockerels should have been
under observation for some time. Those
that grew combs first and commenced annoy-
ing the pullets when they were still only
half-grown should have been potted, long ago
—they never make breeders. The birds
which made steady growth and now
show good bone formation (without any
coarseness), good body shape, a typical mas-
culine appearance and a refined head, with
an eve showing plenty of fire, are the ones
to bank on. “The male bird is half the
flock”; therefore you should know the his-
tory. of the dams of your cockerels. Thus
is laying ability transmitted.
The hens to be earmarked for breeding
should be those which .matured early (not
those which laid early without waiting to
mature), and have a good laying record, par-
ticularly in the winter months. They, also,
should be free from any semblance of coarse-
ness in bone or head, and of good size and
typo. If egg records are available they
should take first place as a point in select-
ing breeders, but size of egg is also important
and should always be studied in conjunction
with number.
There is a wide belief that it is necessary
to mate a yearling cockerel with two-year
liens, or vice versa. This is not a bad prac-
tice to follow, but it is by no means essen-
tial, and no ill effects are likely to accrue
by ignoring it, provided all birds used are
fully matured. The same remarks apply
to the prejudice against pullets as breeders.
By all means discard the undersized or
late-hatched pullet as a breeder, but don’t
be afraid of breeding from a well-grown
pullet of 11 or 12 months. And remember
that the pullet you don’t like to breed from
at the age stated never will be any good for
that purpose —she may look different next
year, but she hasn’t outgrown the undesir-
able points she had as a pullet. Use her
as a breeder and she will almost certainly
transmit those undesirable traits to her
offspring.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from the Service Department.)
Is it possible to secure an island off the
Queensland coast for grazing purposes?—
7940. , ,
Yes, but the best of the islands are already
held under some tenure of the Land Acts.
The vacant islands, some of which have been
open for occupation license (an annual ten-
ancy) for many years without finding appli-
cants, comprise generally rough and broken
country without any permanent surface
wrnter on them.
(1) What is the formula of the British
Research Association’s wool-branding pre-
paration? (2) Where is the preparation
obtainable in Australia? (3) Is it suitable
for Conditions in inland Australia? —8156.
(1) Wool fat, 30 parts; carnauba wax,
2 parts; barytes, 14 parts; color, 4 parts;
turpentine substitute, 16 parts, by weight.
The amount of turpentine substitute varies
according to the consistency of fluid desired.
(2) Not manufactured here. (3) Can’t say.
Experiments are being made.
(1) What return can be expected from
100 gallons of milk if sold to a milk factory?
(2) The return if testing 4 p.c. and sepa-
rated and sold to butter factory? (3) Does
any variation of price take place according
to butter-fat content when milk is sold to
a milk factory. (4) Best country within
Sydney Metropolitan Land Board area for
growing lucerne and maize? (5) What
assistance can be expected from the Govern-
ment Rural Bank or Commonwealth Bank
to men buying farms? —8010.
(1) The Sydney Milk Board is investi-
gating with a view to fixing prices. (2)
401 b. butter-fat would make nearly 491 b.
commercial butter; payments for December
were at the rate of 10d. to 10|d. per pound
to farmers. In addition, by separating
cream at the farm the skim milk is available
to rear pigs and calves. Each cow milked
should represent 1 calf and 1 pig per year.
Calf value at a few weeks’ age equals 10s.
to 155.; pig value at 6 months, £2 to £2
10s. (3) Depends on standards to be fixed
by Milk Board. (4) Hawkesbury River
flats, near Windsor. (5) The prospects of
opening new loan accounts are not bright.
(1) Is there a good living in 100 breeding
sows? (2) How many litters a year? (.3)
What is the average litter per sow? (4)
llow many acres are required to run the
sows? (5) Is Orange (X.S.W.) a suitable
district? (6) When is it best to sell young
pigs? (7) 117(af capital is needed to start
with ? —BO3B.
(1) Yes. provided one has a knowledge of
pig-farming and a regular supply of cheap
food is available. (2) Two litters in 12 to
13 months. (3) Eight born and six reared.
(4) Ten to twenty acres, according to the
quality of the land and the food supply r> (5)
Yes, provided shade and shelter are available
in summer and warmth in winter, and also
an ample supply of water. (6) There is
always a market for porkers four to five
months old. The pigs can also be sold as
baconers, about six months old, when ready,
preferably ?*:om Juiio to October. (7) £250
to £Boo.'
My kelpie dog, aged about 10. has lately
developed stiffness in the hindquarters which
appears to be very painful, especially when
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


« f.
mmmm
A reinforced boot
The Abbey Cossack is built up
on a double sole of Australia’s
toughest leather. The upper
is doubled, too, being lined
throughout with soft leather.
Abbey Cossacks are ideal for
the roughest country and work-
ing wear.... for the worst
weather conditions. They last
longer than all ordinary work-
ing boots. And they’re com-
fortably flexible.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Qalf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Estab/ished over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 268.
mt
SVAt
CONSTIPATION
IS DEPRESSING
AND DANGEROUS
Constipation is a serious matter—
because it is responsible for many
of our present-day ailments. Fail-
ure of the system to eliminate
waste matter brings on headaches,
indigestion, dizziness and bilious*
ness. Figsen corrects constipation,
is easy .to take and gentle and
natural in action. No purging or
griping. Figsen restores natural
bowel action without upsetting
the most delicate stomach. For
adults and kiddies FIGSEN.
KL
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
w
FOR CONSTIPATION
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — * think of
*4
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Sired, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation.
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
BOH*
SB
®neß
WITH such beautiful designs and colors,
” who wouldn’t admire “80-Peep”
Print? “80-Peep” Print has been especially
made for Children’s wear, and every little
detail has been studied to ensure that hard
wear and repeated washing will not injure
its original daintiness.
“80-Peep” Print is 36 inches wide, and is obtainable
in many styles, designs and colorings.
Mr. H. G. RANDELL, “The Grace Building,’
York Street, SYDNEY.
2
<#
ff
fJUfartrti
Looks tfood-
isgood:
for Childrens Wear.
Q'ZtkmccZ
Jaime.
he tries to jump. His health otherwise
appears to be good and his condition is all
right. Cause and cure? —8200.
As the dog is an old one, there may be some
organic trouble (either liver or kidneys or
both). Give him a dose of ioz. syrup of
buckthorn and £oz. castor oil, mixed. Don’t
feed starchy foods, such as biscuits. Once
or twice daily for three days put about J
teaspoonful of baking soda on his tongue.
If his back is very painful, foment with
hot water, massage and then rub in an
embrocation.
My blue sheep-dog vomits a good deal,
especially early in the morning. He has
one meal a day in the evening. He is very
fond of cake and often has a piece thrown to
him. He vomits whether he has it or not.
Cause and cure? —7980.
The symptoms point to inflammation of the
stomach, probably due to dietectic irregu-
larities. Cut out the cake and starchy foods
of any kind. Meat, milk, soup and green
vegetables should be provided. To allay the
irritation in the stomach get some bismuth
charcoal and pepsin tabloids. Powder one
tabloid (five grains) and give it on tongue
three times daily till vomiting ceases. Only
milk should be fed whilst the dog is under
treatment.
I understand that the late Clement
Wragge held a theory that the weather was
influenced by sunspots. What will be the
condition of sunspots for 1932-33, and
ivhat effect should they have on the weather
according to Wragge? —8090.
Sunspot numbers cannot be foretold, the
cycle being irregular. 1932-33 is expected
to be near the minimum. This, according
to Mr. Wragge’s theory (he, however, did
not confine himself to sunspots), would
indicate low rainfall. Recent researches in
Australia show little direct correlation
between sunspots and rainfall.
Recipe for a grit mixture for pigeons? —
8005.
Take 1 part each of finely-ground old
mortar charcoal and bones (beef and mutton
bones should be boiled to get rid of all fatty
and fleshy accumulations, then put into an
oven and baked sufficiently dry to be easily
broken). Then add two parts each of sand
shell and brick, ground small. Mix -with
brine or a strong solution of table salt and
water and add a little oil of aniseed. Serve
sparingly.
How are dates cured? Are they allowed
to ripen on the tree, or at what stage are
they plucked? —8015.
In some places dates will ripen on the
bunch, but under most conditions they are
gathered and ripened artificially. The fruit
is picked when it shows a translucent spot
on one side, and is then packed; after
eight or ten days it is in perfect condition
for use. Another method is to pick the dates
when fully grown and place in a chamber in
which the heat can be kept steadily at a tem-
perature around 135deg. Carbon-dioxide gas
is conveyed into the chamber to assist the
ripening'process. The quantity used is very
small and depends upon the maturity of the
dates when picked.
Is there a market for grass-tree resin, and
who are likely buyers? —8070.
Users have large stocks of the red variety
on hand. There is a fair demand overseas
for the yellow variety. Sydney Technological
Museum’s Bulletin “Grass Tree Resin,'’
7d., contains a list of buyers and other useful
information.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Yalerin”: As a result of floods last
winter and the subsequent dry spell, many
tanks in the Riverina have become death-
traps for sheep. These should be attended to
regularly by removing the mud from the
water edge with a small scoop and a single
horse, or by netting off three sides and lay-
ing down on the fourth a length of fine-mesh
netting; this will enable sheep to drink with-
out risk of getting stuck.
“The Breaker”: Pigweed grows quickly
after heavy rains out back, and sheep go for
it in preference to most other herbage, it
is a class of feed that requires attention, for
empty sheep coming out of a yard or a shed
are apt to get blown. It has the same gassy
qualities as rape and lucerne, and allowing
empty sheep to stuff themselves on it is
liable to have disastrous results.
“Syce”: The value of swede turnips as
a stock fodder is hardly realised in Aus-
tralia. The land needs to be w r orked to a
moderately fine mulch and left fallow, if only
for a few weeks. Two to three pounds of
seed per acre is generally advocated; with
proper working and fallow I’ve found that
lOoz. drilled in is ample. With just a small
hand-propelled sower an acre or more a day
can be sown in drills.
“Wescocky”: Mice can be beaten by stor-
ing your oats and other grain in bins.
Material required consists of a few sheets
of corrugated or sheet iron for the walls,
a few lengths of 3in. x 2in. sawn timber
(bush timber will dol, and cement enough
to make a concrete floor—1 part cement, 3
parts sand and 6 parts gravel. A bin 12ff.
long, 10ft. wide and 6ft. high will hold 600
bushels.
“Cornstalk”: Fed to cows peanuts give
the cream a weedy taste; fed to pigs, they
make the bacon too oily. But fed to turkeys,
ducks or fowls they impart a delicious flavor
to the flesh. This applies most particularly
to turkeys. I had a field of peanuts that
was badly harvested. The turkeys practi-
cally lived on them. People who bought my
birds for Christmas said they never ate any-
thing like them.
“Nat Lew”: Nothing so drastic as ashes
or lime is required to clarify muddy water
(B. 27/l/’32). A handful of oatmeal to
a bucketful will do the trick. Insert a tap
in a benzine-tin about three inches from the
bottom; the water can then be drawn off
without disturbing the sediment, which will
have settled on the bottom after a few hours’
standing. The tap that can be secured with a
nut on the inside is the easiest to fix.
“Beady”: A cure for pinkeye in sheep
is one scruple of iodine, eight scruples of
potassium iodide, and 20 fluid ounces of
water. Two or three drops applied by eye-
drop syringe or oilcan (with a very small
nozzle) to the corner of the eye nearest the
nose are generally sufficient; but if the pink-
eye is bad a second treatment in about two
days is advisable. The quantity mentioned
will treat about 1500 sheep with both eyes
affected and will keep indefinitely.
“Cam H.”: Bore drains will give trouble
constantly during summer. Foremost among
causes of stoppage is blow-grass, also called
shivery grass. Finicking methods, such as
picking out odd bits of grass with a fork,
are useless; graziers and bore-drain care-
takers have found that the trouble should
be dealt with on a larger scale. Let Dobbin
help you to do the job thoroughly. Tie a
branch to the back of the sulky and throw
the branch into the drain. It will catch
practically all the grass and admit of work
over larger lengths.
“H. Ivalyptus”: I have had excellent
results from tying rearers with a strong
rope (a bowline-knot around the neck) to
the stockyard fence, giving 3ft. or 4ft. of
slack, and then mounting. The nag may
make the fence creak a bit, and if he throws
himself down it is much easier to get clear
than from a big strong hack going over back-
wards. The rider may mount as many times
as he thinks fit, and then quietly reach for-
ward from the saddle, untie the rope from
the animal’s neck, and ride him around the
yard. If the mo'uth is sore, be very gentle
with it, and don’t pull at his head unless
he trys to buck. Pressure should be re-
moved instantly when his head comes up.
If he intends to rear throw all the weight
possible forward on his neck, and the horse
will rarely come over backwards. In most
cases horses are pulled over through the
riders hanging on to their heads.
“S. Ring”: Cattlemen in the Gulf coun-
try have a simpler method of rope-making
than “The Breaker’s” (B. 11/11/'3l)
After preparing the strips of hide, a stout
piece of hardwood, about 6in. wide, is nailed
to two trees or in a convenient fork. This
wood is bored with three holes, into which
are slipped three cranks. The end that
slips through the holes has a hook in it to
hold the hide; the crank portion makes a
handle to turn when twisting up. The
strain is, of course, taken so that it comes
on the tree, not on the nails holding the
boards. Each strand has a weight to hold
it taut as the twisting proceeds. When each
has been twisted enough the handles are
checked from turning, the strain of the
weights is relieved so that the strands may
be unhooked, and after being threaded
through the guide board, they are hooked on
the one hook. The weight is then readjusted,
and twisting in the opposite direction is pro-
ceeded with, while someone gradually leads
the guide board up from the weighted end.
seeing that the twisted strands fall evenly
into place and continuing until he reaches
the end of the rope. The thing is left to
dry for a few days before removal, or any
little finishing that the ropemaker fancies.
“Mulgo”: While passing some N.S.W.
poultry farms recently, I noticed the poor
birds panting in the hot sun. not a vestige
of shade being provided for them. Loss in
birds and production must be expected under
such conditions. Poultry need shelter from
heat, wind and rain; and in summer the
water supply should be placed where it
will keep cool.
“Dimon” : What seems to be the best cure
devised for broody hens is a coop with a
wire-netting bottom. It is set up off the
ground, so that there is always a current of
air underneath, and the hen is unable to
warm any spot where she sits. This is
claimed to effect a cure in a few days,
whereas broodiness may persist in an ordinary
coop for weeks. A common treatment in
aggravated cases is to hold the fowl’s head
under a tap. The current of air serves
the same purpose without doing any harm.
“Bufforp”: I saw a sensible fowlhouse in
the hot central-west of Bananaland. All
round the bottom there was a hinged board
that was lifted in hot weather to allow
an air current. The perches were hung on
No. 8 fencing-wire from the rafters. Half-
way down the wire ran through a jam-tin
soldered to it round the centre hole —
which was kept filled with kerosene. That
man’s birds were the fittest I’ve seen in those
parts.
“Golightly”: Last year I joined pedigree
Dorset Horn rams with plain-bodied merino
ewes. There were too many ewes for these
rams, and I drafted off the heavier-woolled
ewes and mated them with grade Dorset
Horn rams, keeping them in separate pad-
docks. The lambs from both lots were
marked on May 4 and shorn the first week
in September. When they were seven months
old, and all fat, I weighed them, deducting 56
per cent. The first cross-wether weaners
(pedigree Dorset Horn on plain-bodied
merino ewes) averaged, dressed weight,
461 b.; the wether weaners (grade Dorset
Horn on average merino ewe), 321 b. The
using of grade Dorset Horn rams plus un-
selected merino ewes represented a loss to
me of over 4s. 6d. per lamb.
“Pine Scrub”: A breeder of Herefords in
southern N. S. Wales found a hornless heifer
sport amongst his calves, and decided to see
what could be done towards establishing a
polled Hereford herd. He has now between
40 and 50 breeders. It was purely a matter
of segregation and selection, the polled char-
acteristic being dominant and the horned
recessive. That being so, he wms able to
use stud horned bulls, the result being prac-
tically 100 per cent, polled calves. Later
he selected a polled bull from his herd and
joined it with the . polled heifers, and their
calves were approximately 75 per cent,
polled and 25 per cent, horned. The same
thing was done on a larger scale in the
U.S.A. some 30 years ago, and the polled
Hereford is now a standard breed there.
“Homby”: Bore water for crop and vege-
table cultivation (B. 27/l/’32) has been
used with great success in many parts of
north-west N.S.W. Near Walgett, Albert
Brouff (Wilgabar), C. E. Colwell (New
Prospect), the Dwyer family (Gaylong Vale)
and others have raised capital crops of
wheat, oats and lucerne, and kept up con-
stant supplies of home-growm vegetables
through droughts. In the town, where the
water is laid on from the local bore, fruit,
flowers and vegetables are successfully grown
with it. In their case it is advisable to
break the ground with a hoe occasionally,
the soda content tending to harden the top.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free.. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mariner, Q’land, also surveyor, including roads and
mining, wants employment anywhere, Pacific Islands
preferably.—B 247.
Married cbuple, N.S.W., husband over 20 years’
exp. sheep, agriculture, farm machinery; wife' cook,
housekeeper, seek position together on station or
other property.—B2s6.
Young man (23), Vic., well educated, travelled,
can fly aeroplane, drive car, etc., seeks position any-
where.—B22B.
Capable woman, Sydney, seeks situation as work-
ing housekeeper, six years last place.—B23l.
Young lady, Sydney, wants position as steno-
grapher or saleswoman.-—Bl9B.
Sydney exporter wishes to get in touch with
suppliers of beeswax, eucalyptus oils and tallow. —
8184.
Inventor, Q’land, handy with cars and mach-
inery, wants employment and assistance to develop
inventions. —8194.
Young man, N.S.W., three years’ fitting exp., wants
work anywhere.—Bl6s,
Uni. student, N.S.W. (21), stenographer and
typist, wants position as governess or companion in
country Or city.—B2o2.
To buy copy of the “Lone Hand,” May, 1907. —
8205.
To communicate with persons interested in form-
ing a literary correspondence club to discuss general
works and first-class novels 0n1y.—8222.
Words of poem beginning “Wrap me up in my
stockwhip and blanket.” —8214.
Words of recitation “The Postman.”—Bl63.
Information Sought.
(1) When was the Victorian Art Society
formed? (2) Membership ; fee f (3) How
many members are there, and what privi-
leges does membership carry? —Blo7.
(1) 1870. (2) One guinea entrance fee,
and one guinea a year. (3) About 450.
There is a life class three nights a week,
which is free to members, and admission to
two exhibitions a year in April and October.
Also there are lectures and meetings.
My neighbor has a pepper-tree hedge along
the side of my property. The roots have
caused great damage to paths. I have been
advised to trench and pour in, pentoxidle. (1)
If Ido this am I liable for damages? (2)
Is it necessary to notify my neighbor? (3)
Is there any other way in which I can safe-
auard my property? —Bo4B.
Al) Yes, if you kill his hedge. Better dig
your trench and leave the poisoning out. (2)
You should inform your neighbor that the
roots are trespassing and you propose to
cut them. (3) Cannot suggest any.
I am desirous of forming a social club in
a country town in N.S.W. (1) Have Ito
register the name? (2) What are the
chances of getting a liquor license? —7713.
(1) Depends on character of club organisa-
tion. Registrar-General’s Department will
advise whether registration is necessary. (2)
None, unless there is a vacancy for a club in
the area constituting the electorate within
which the premises are situated. An entirely
new club registration cannot be granted.
As the marbles are replaced in the barrel
after drawing each sequence of prizes in “a
certain” lottery, is it possible for one number
to win more than one prize? —7B23.
Quite possible, though the mathematical
odds against the coincidence are enormous. As
a matter of fact, each marble participates in
eight ballots.
(1) Can anyone send a picture to the
Royal Academy? (2) What are the rules to
be complied with? —8120.
(1) Yes. (2) In the case of people living
overseas the pictures must be sent to an
agent for unpacking and delivery. An entry
form must be obtained from the secretary of
the Royal Academy, Burlington House,
London, and it must be filled in with full
name, address, description of the work and
price. On the back of each picture submitted
must be the name and address, title and price,
and this information must be repeated on a
loose label attached so as to hang over the
front of the picture. All works must have
been executed within the preceding 10 years,
and in the case of etchings and engravings,
the edition must have been published not
more than six months previously. No copies
may be sent, nor colored photographs. Not
more than three works may be sent by one
exhibitor, and oil-paintings may not be sub-
mitted under glass ; but if when accepted they
are hung on the line, and are not of more
than 30 sq ft. in area, an arrangement can
be made to have them glazed before the
Academy is opened to the public.
(1) Is there a market for marine drawings
in Sydney? (2) Where should I send
samples of work? (3) Do the shipping cos.
buy drawings from freelance artists?— Bo42.
(1) No regular market. Everything
depends on the quality of the drawings.
(2) and (3) Burns, Philp and Co., Bridge-
street, Sydney, might be interested, and
some of the magazines published in Aus-
tralia might use good marine drawings as
cover designs.
Origin of the phrase “the sword of
Damocles” ? —Bll4.
Damocles, a hanger-on at the court of
the elder Dionysius of Syracuse, was heard
to prattle enviously of his monarch’s happi-
ness. To show Damocles how the King really
felt Dionysius forced him to sit at a great
banquet immediately under a drawn sword
suspended by a single hair.
(1) Does THE Bulletin accept for pub-
lication drawings done in pencil only? (2)
What kind of pencil do artists use, and
what kind of paper do they draw on? —8041.
(1) Willing to consider any type of
drawing that will reproduce satisfactorily.
(2.) Dixon’s broad sketching pencils, ordi-
nary cartridge paper; W batmanis moun
boards. Comte or Academy chalks aie tio
quently employed and can be used aclv
tageously with Michelet paper.
(11 What is meant by flash-point ana
firing-point in oils? (2) Is the calorific value
of oil of importance when used as powci
fuel? (3) What is the specific gravity, oaMii-
fle value, flash-point and firing-point of (a.)
petrol, (b) power kerosene, . (c) lighting
kerosene, (d) crude oil? (4) Nome and
price of a book on this subject. t ibo.
(1) The flash-point is the temperature at
wliicu an oil gives off gas sufficient to ignite
and go out. As the temperature is increased
more vapor is given off and a continuous
flame can be maintained. W hen this is ob-
tained the temperature reached is known as
the firing*point. If the flash- and firing-
points are too low for a given engine, knock-
ing will occur. This precludes the Satisfac-
tory use of refined oils in the Diesel engine.
(2) The calorific values of liquid petroleum
fuels vary slightly, and so far as fuels mar-
keted in Australia for Diesel purposes are
concerned this factor is not important, (ol
(a) .70 to .75; 18,000 tc>2o>,ooo ; not taken ;
not taken; (6) .78 to .83; 18,700 to 19,6<X),
100 to 110 degrees F.; 125 to 130 degrees F,;
(c) .79 to .85; 19,000 to 19,800; 140 to 160
degrees F. ; 180 to 190 degrees F.; (d) .87
to .96; 18 500 to 19,500; 175 degrees F cl-
over; not taken. (4) Angus and Robertson
can supply a list.
If a person were bitten l unknowingly by
a, venomous snake, what would be the
symptoms to be noticed, and how long would,
they take to develop after the bite?-—! 81J.
He would notice the pain of the bite
immediately, and on looking where the pain
was he would notice the marks. _ subse-
quent symptoms vary with- the variety ot
snake.
(1) How can nugget ambergris be identi-
fied? (2) What is its value?— B2o9.
(1) This variety consists of more or less
rounded pieces found embedded in commoner
soft black ambergris. When the latter is
removed, the nuggets are seen to consist
of material harder than the usual varieties.
It may be marked with the finger-nail, but
it is brittle to the extent that pieces may
be broken from the lump with the fingers.
The color varies from light to dark brown,
and a freshly-broken surface appears rather
resinous; it is either streaked or mottled
with white spots about pinhead size. Some
samples are built up of thin layers. Although
brittle at normal temperature, a piece when
worked between the fingers gradually becomes
plastic and dark, resembling soft pitch. The
odor is characteristically musty, but not ns
powerful as the usual varieties. (2) 60s. to
80s. per ounce.
What is the principle of the newly-invented
photographic flash-lamp, said to be fireless,
smokeless, odorless and noiseless? —8207.
It consists of a clear bulb of standard
design, filled with oxygen. In this is fixed
a filament coated with an inflammable pre-
paration, and a quantity of thin alu-
minium foil in crumpled form is placed within
the bulb. When the circuit is closed, the
filament is ignited, and this, in turn, sets fire
to the foil. The flash is confined entirely
within the bulb. The lamp operates on
house supply or with batteries. A new bulb
is needed for each flash.
What salary is received by (1) the Prime
minister of England, (2) the President of
the U.S.A., and (3) the President of France?
—8206.
(1) £5OOO p.a., less 20 p.c. under economy
scheme brought in last November. (2)
Salary, 75,000 dollars; travelling allowance,
25,000 dollars. (3) Dotation, 1,800,000
francs; with a further 1,800,000 francs for
expenses.
Is it true that the Mt. Etna volcano fur-
nishes the heat for the heating-system of the
near-by observatory during the winter
months? —8208. ,
Yes. Pipes have been fixed deep into the
fissures near the principal crater and hot
steam is led into the observatory building,
where temperature is regulated by a system
of valves and stop-cocks. As the strength
of the furnace is somewhat out of propor-
tion to the needs of the house, Professor
Ponte has installed a system of overflow
pipes, safety valves and alarm whistles
which comes into operation when Etna begins
to overdo the work of central heating.
In playing poker is it wise to come into
jackpots against the opener? Some players
maintain that one should have a pair of
eights or tens at least; others say a pair
of aueens. —8185-
Records of play show that it pays to come
in on any sort of a pair; if you win only
once in six times you get some of your ante
money back, whereas if you habitually stay
out you get nothing.
(1) Names, botanical and popular, of Aus-
tralian timbers suitable for making fishing-
rods? (2) Where can such timbers, in suit-
able'sizes and properly seasoned, be obtained?
—BOB7
(1) Bending sections: Saffron heart {Hal-
ford i a scleroxyla and drupifera) ; Queens-
land greenheart (Endiandra comprcssa) ;
green satinheart (Geijcra salicifolia and
Uuclleri) ; brigalow spearwood (Acacia har-
pophylla) ; iron spearwood {Acacia cxcelsa) ;
spotted irongum (Eucalyptus maculata) ;
hickory ash (Flindersia iffiaiana) ; and brown
tulip oak (Tarrietia argyrodendron var. tri-
foliolata). Lighter rods: Brown salwood
( Acacia, cunninghamii and aulacocarpa).
Butts : Rose marara, yellow-wood ash and
other ashes (Flindersia spp.) ; yellow box-
wood ( Sideroxylon pohlmanianum) ; white
holly wood (Pittosporum, rhombifolium ) :
spotted irongum (Eucalyptus maculata) ;
tulip plum (Pleiogynium solandri), figured;
red satinay (Syncarpia hillii), figured. Of
the timbers of N.S.W., those suitable for
surf fishing are water gum ( Tnstama
laurina) ; spotted gum ( Eucalyptus macu-
lata) and straight-grained ironbark (Lwc<i-
lyptus siderophloia) . Queensland timbers
can be obtained through the Provisional
Forestry Board, Brisbane; N.S.M. timbeis
from most timber merchants.
I wish to build a, 40 ft. copper-bottomed
sailing-boat suitable for ocean cruising. Ut
Kind of build desirable? (2) Rig? (3)
Approximate cost ? (4) Where are pan
obtainable? (5) If an engine is afterwards
installed what h.p. would be required.
8149
(1) Deep keel vessel, about lift, beam,
7ft draught; cruiser stern, self-bailing cock-
pit. (2) Bermuda, as ketch or schooner
(3) Depends on local prices of material. (4)
Angus and Robertsom Consult also the files
of “Yachting Monthly*-’ (London). (o)
Not less than 10 h.p. n
(1) Has Maoriland a Daylight-Saving Act:
If so, when and how does it operate? (2)
Has Australia ever experimented with rant-
ing the clock, and what was the result.
Sly?
C (1) Yes. Under the Summer Time Act
(1929), the clock is advanced half an hour on
the second Sunday in October and put back
half an hour on the third Sunday in March.
(2) Yes, in 1916. It was pronounced to be
without advantage after a short trial.
The cylinder block of my model T Ford
has been badly scored by a loose gudgeon-
pin. (1) What metal should be used for
filling the scores. (2) What fluxesi (3)
Would solder dot- —7986.
(1) A copper-hardened white metal is
usually used. (2) Copper sulphate makes a
good medium for tinning the iron, and sal
ammoniac should be used to assist the white
metal to adhere to the tinning, (o) This is no
job for an amateur. Jackson Thompson, Ltd.,
in Sydney, specialise in work of this kind.
What is the correct postage on the Bul-
letin 9 Some post offices let it through
for Id. whilst others charge 2d. L—Bo9B.
Postage is 6oz. for Id. The average
wrapped Bulletin weighs a shade under boz.
but occasionally one goes just oyer. R.y
using a lighter wrapper, however, the weight
can usually be got below the 6oz.
(1) Any demand for good-quality yellow
ochre? (2) Who buys it? (3) Market
price per ton? —8003.
(1) Yes. (2) Lewis Berger and Sons,
Borthwicks Pty. Co., W. Docker, Majoi
Bros, and Co., Taubmans, Ltd., Austral
Rock Milling Co.—all Sydney. (3) 30s. to
£5 per ton, dependent on shade and strength
Has anyone crossed the English Channel
in a glider? —Bl7B. ...
Yes Lissant Beardmore, an English-
man, "on June 19 last. The passage was
accomplished in 90min. The glider was
towed by an aeroplane to a height of 14, wu
feet above Lympne, and landed at St. Ingle-
vert aerodrome. Beardmore not being con-
sidered properly qualified, his performance
is not officially recognised. The honor ot
the first Channel flight is accorded to KrOn-
feld, a German, who flew from France to
England on June 20. He afterwards made
a return glide.
(1) How many professional artists (car-
toonists and commercial) are there in Aus-
tralia? (2) Is there an association or
union for them? If so, name and address?
(3) Could artists be induced to compete for
a prize or prizes (say, £25, £l5 or £10) for
a drawing to illustrate d slogan? (4) Could
such drawings be protected by a competi-
tion committee and secured to its exclusive
use? —8216. ,
(1) Can’t say definitely. There must be
many hundreds. (2) Yes; A.J.A., 37 Swan-
ston-street, Melbourne. (3) Provided the
competition was widely enough advertised the
response should be good. (4) The commit-
tee could arrange to have the accepted draw-
ings copyrighted in its name.
Some points on how to care for and store
a bicycle which is to be put away for about
12 months? —8148.
The tyres should be taken off and the
tubes placed in the covers and inflated. Then
wrap the tyres and place in a dark, dry
place. If the rims show any signs of rust-
ing, re-enamel, and give the rims, also the
frame, a coat of vaseline, covering any
nickel-plated parts. Hang up frame and
wheels. „ T 7 .
(1) How does one go about publishing
dance music? (2) Should music be copy-
righted before publication, or are a com-
poser's rights protected in regard to music
in manuscript? (3) Is it better to get music
performed first or published first? —8144.
(1) Submit it to music publishers. Most
leading Sydney music houses are publishers,
but they print only at the composer’s expense
these days. (2) Manuscripts can be provi-
sionallv copyrighted before publication, but
the work cannot be permanently copyrighted
until copies are printed. Manuscripts are
copyrighted by the composer, and printed
works by the publisher. (3) Depends on
the class of composition. Songs are always
published first.
(1) How is the cinquain verse jorm con-
structed? (2) What manner of thought
should it seek to express? (3) An example?
B2lO.
It consists of five lines, the first line
containing one iambic foot, the second line
two, the third line three, the fourth line
four, and the fifth line one. Each foot con-
tains two syllables; and there is no need of
rhyme. (2) The thought must be led grace-
fully and gradually up to the end of the
fourth line, where fancifully it may be said
the sentiment remains an instant poised on
a dainty toe, then sharply and neatly it
regains solid ground. The final figure of the
pirouette may be either comedy, pathos or
any variety of the grotesque or unexpected.
(3) Examples are difficult to find but the
one quoted, though not of the best, will
suffice to show how the cinquain is con-
structed
NOVEMBER NIGHT.
Listen,
With faint, dry sound,
Like steps of passing ghosts,
The leaves, frost-crisped, break from the trees
And fall.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Abo. word “Yerrinbool?”—
8097.
Brief Answers.
C. 8.: Consider you entitled to the reduc-
tion. .. .A.C.8.: Government would not authorise
admission into Australia of Chinese you mention....
A.L.: The manufacturers state that on a packet of
cigarettes retailing at 20 for Is. just on 7d. is paid
to the Government by way of duty and excise....
F.M.C.: The Pastel Society, 195 Piccadilly, London,
W.l. .. .E. 1.8.: Awaba, plain surface; Boonal, blady
grass plentiful; Granian, big plain ; Mycumbene, heie
we sit down ;or Nindethana, ours... . J.F.: There is no
safe method of rendering pipes which have been
used for gas safe conduits for drinking water. Such
use is prohibited by many municipal authorities.
D.C.D.: The first electric tram in Sydney ran
on 9th November, 1890, on the Rand wick-Waverley
extension line. The whole of this plant was trans-
ferred to North Sydney, and there was a tram between
Falcon-street junction and Spit-road on 20th Sep-
tember, 1893. No electric tram ran from Ridge-
street to Crow’s Nest in 1892. Date of the first elec-
tric tram George-street, en route to Pyrmont, was
Bth December, 1899 H.W.A.: The small size of
the passion-fruit is due to the unsuitable soil in
which the vine is growing. You must improve the
soil by organic manure and by draining prior to
planting T.R.M.: Finlay’s “Cattle Breeding”
(225.), and Maynard’s “Australian Dairyman’s Hand-
book’’ (155.), Angus and Robertson... .8.5.: (1)
From George Hudson, Ltd., Bridge-road, Glebe,
Svdney. (2) Write to Kodak, Ltd., George-street,
Sydney W.S.: A spade guinea is worth 255. They
were issued in George IH.’s time, 1787-99... .G.M..
(1) There are many different formulae, but all contain
glue and molasses, with a larger proportion of glue
for summer use. Soak 81b. glue in as much water
as it will absorb. When there is no visible water,
treat the glue till melted, and add 71b. hot molasses.
(2) Increasing the glue and lessening the molasses
to keep to the same bulk will harden the composi-
tion. Some makers include a small quantity of
Paris white. (3) Should not do so, provided the
meltable ingredients comprise the main bulk
A.F.: Try Scarba, the Welfare House for Children,
3'o Wellington-street, Bondi. The child may be
adopted by an order of the Supreme Court in
Equity on the application of the adopting parents.
Apply at the office of the Master in Equity, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney, next to Supreme Court buildings.
B.W.: There is no age bar against entering
this profession. The qualifications necessary are a
Technical College diploma or a Uni. degree. The
Technical College course takes five to seven years.
Axe-handle: The cheapest fares between Darwin
and Perth by the Koolinda are second saloon, single,
£l4 12s. 6d.; return, £23 10s. The steamer
leaves Darwin on February 15, April 1 and May 27
next, arriving at Fremantle ten days later. Theie
is no other steamer connection between Darwin and
Westralia... . J.P.N.: (1) Richard Lovelace. (2)
“To Lucasta.” (3) He means that his honor is
her Only rival... .B.B.: You are entitled to a reduc-
tion of nine-fortieths in every pound of interest (with
a minimum of five per cent.). The banks reduc-
tion appears to be insufficient, but it may have some
explanation. As to the overdraft, you have the pro-
tection of the moratorium. .. .J.A.8.: “What to Do
at Weddings’’ (Is. 3d.) and “Toasts and Speeches”
(Is. 3d.), Angus and Robertson. .. .0.L.M.: Both
correct A. 5.1.: From Bennie Cohen and Co., 341
Collins-street, Melbourne (Vic.). . .M.P.: “The
Theory of Poetry,” by Lascelles Abercrombie; “The
Art of Poetry,” by William Paton Kerr; and “Intro-
ductory to the Study of Poetry,” by M. C.
Beeching It.W.P.: (1) Impossible to answer
unless nature of goods described. Vic. Labor Dept,
requires furniture and boots to be stamped, and
Customs and Health depts. a wide range of other
articles. (2) He must register with the police as
a pedlar. v 3) Matter of opinion. Probably Vic.
is in better position A.G.S.: Write to the Com-
mercial Secretary, British Embassy, Peking, China.
E.W.N.; The statement that the Aus. Govern-
ment paid France rent for the trenches its troops
occupied in the Great War isi incorrect and has been
frequently and authoritatively contradicted
S.R.C.: Can’t diagnose from your description. Con-
sult a vet.... J.C.:. Write Dymoek’s, 424 George-
street, Sydney..-F.W.K.: The element chlorine com-
bines ’ with other elements to form compounds called
chlorides, such as sodium chloride (common salt) (
calcium chloride, etc. All these chlorides are very
soluble in water, and there are no chemical means
of removing them from water. .. .M.R.C.: We have
no record of any process separate from the flotation
process. Possibly the name is intended to indicate
a particular type of machine to be used.... J.K.F. :
Edmund Barton, from 1901 to 1903 ; Alfred
Deakin, ’O3-’O4; ’O5-’08; ’O9-’lO ; J. C. Watson,
’O4 (four months) ; G. H. Reid, ’O4-’O5; Andrew
Fisher, ’OB,-’O9; ’lO-’l3; ’l4-’l5; Joseph Cook,
’l3-’l4; W. M. Hughes, ’l5-’l6 ; ’l6-’l7; ’l7-’18;
’lB-’23 ; S. M. Bruce, ’23-’25; ’26*’2B ; ’2B-’29;
J. H. Scullin, ’29-’3l; and J. A. Lyons, ’31....
J.V.K.; The sheep are infested with the larvae of
the nasal fly (Oestrus ovis). Cover a piece of fine
wire with soft cloth, then double it. Dip it in
pine or Stockholm tar and insert it It inches in
each nostril. Tar on the lick! trough lid, in which
2-inch holes are bored, offer a means of tarring the
nose of each sheep as they take the lick, thereby
giving some protection.... A.S.: They have little
value W.J.G.: (1) H. M. General Register Office,
Edinburgh. (2) ss. for search, 3s. 2d. for copy for
registration. (3) Records are kept from 1855....
A.M.: Essie Jenyns, the actress, married J. R.
Wood, of Newcastle, at St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Sydney, on December 8, 1888. . . .1’.H.8.: Can’t
make a comparison on details supplied. .. .E.D.:
(1) Yes, without leave of the Court. (2) See no
immediate prospect of property values recovering.
... A.W.C.: The Service Dept, has no political
opinions. You can get all you want from the
various political organisations in Brisbane....
H.N.Q.: (1) You are a special only during the
period of service. (2) Not without a license. (3)
That of any other citizen. (4) You are not
absolved; your oath was one of allegiance so long
as you remain a subject of the King... .C.M.S.: The
phrase was coined by Andrew Fisher in a speech
just before the declaration of war 8.H.P.: Write
Society of Arts and Crafts of N.S.W., 8 Rowe-
street," Sydney... .H.A.S.: They have long gone out
of business J.D.: He always drew his Parlia-
mentary salary W.A.: Old-age pensions are pay-
able to women 60 years of age and over, and to
men 65 years of age and over, with a reduction to
60 years' in the case of men permanently incapaci
tated, the prescribed period of residence in Aus
tralia being 20 years continuously. Absences amount-
ing in the aggregate to one-tenth of the total period
of residence do not involve disqualification Wager:
The public debt of Australia at June 30, 1931, was:
Cwealth, ' £388,718,545; States, £767,317,573 ;
Total, £1,156,036,1.18 C.K.: The fifth Australian
Philatelic Exhibition will be held at Farmers’ Blax-
land Galleries, Sydney, March 22, to April 1....
M. 0.: The Returned Soldiers’ League, Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney, promises to render all
practicable assistance if you communicate with.it.
L.C.M.A.: Get in touch with Dangar,
Gedye and Co., 10 Young-street, Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


Blue North
BY
H. Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis: In 1876 “Handsome Jack”
Fordyce, a Westralian squatter, is
advised by an acquaintance, John
Collins, to leave his extravagant and
discontented wife, Euphemia. For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner
Sea Sprite. His departure for the
Blue North in search of pearls and
freedom is delayed by six Irish poli-
tical convicts escaping through
Collins’s agency in the American
whaler Catalpa. Clearing Fremantle,
the Sprite makes good passage to the
Gascoyne River, and lands stores for
Fordyce’s cousin, Edgar, pioneering
the district. Through him Fordyce
gets native divers, including Nguri;
and, sailing, reaches Cossack. In
greeting little Sophie, forced by tyran-
nical Ma Gannet to herd goats, For-
dyce raises Ms hat: she is captivated.
That night in Mark's pub a fight is
averted between Fordyce and Captain
Baia Budson, a brutal pearler who
can get divers only by force. Baia is
very possessive in dealing with Bella,
the handsome barmaid; she is attracted
to Fordyce. When the drunken crowd
stagger out to watch a ninepins con-
test between Baia and Mark,, she,
detaining Fordyce, provokes him into
embracing her.
CHAPTER VII.
Concerning an innocent visit to the
Sea Sprite.
THE sibilant whisper of incoming tide
awakened John Fordyce. He thought
the wind was blowing Euphemia’s silk
curtains. For one terrible moment he
thought he had merely dreamed of escape,
of nights of storm and calm, of his narrow
bunk on the schooner. The room felt more
than stuffy; the scent of stale, strong
Japanese perfume mingled with a sour
smell of unaired clothing. The Fordyce
fastidiousness rose up in John. However
much his wife may have suffocated his
soul, in person she had been fragrant as a
rose. He climbed cautiously out on the
mud floor, a goat-hide mat tickling his
bare toes. And as he dressed he rejoiced
that he had arranged to sail that day.
Bella might be a good sort, was a good
sort, but not his sort for long! In the
revealing light of morning and the lassi-
tude of a slightly* debauched body, John
felt he could not depart quickly enough.
He tiptoed on to the verandah-like cor-
ridor joining the two buildings which
formed the pub. A native sweeping up
a litter of broken bottles was the only
person visible. Out into the sunlight swung
John. The far-off line of the sea shim-
mered, entrancing. He made out one or
two shapeless forms lying above water-
level a.t the edge of the marsh, but Cos-
sack offered no other sign of life than the
ever-cruising crows overhead. The sea called,
promising the clean sharp sting of salt.
He walked off rapidly down the promon-
tory; surely somewhere across that rocky
headland he could find a pool in which to
bathe.
Inside a hot tin shanty on the hill Ma
Gannet was rating Sophie for being so
slow about her work.
“No better than one of them lazy good-
for-nothing gins! And you big enough ter
do the whole lot now and save me the
trouble of minding Peter.”
Not for the first time the girl looked at
M!a’s withered cheeks, her hawk nose,
the ghastly chestnut topee precariously
pinned to her few remaining locks, and
wondered how Peter could have taken up
with such a creature. Dear Peter —who
had been gentle with her, always guarding
her like a woman after his wife died and
she lived for months on the Mary Lee
with the old captain and his crew. Then
had come the fire which destroyed the
schooner beyond repair, though Peter ran
her aground and no one suffered; after
that months in Cossack awaiting the settle-
ment of insurance claims—the insurance
Captain Gannet had been so. proud of and
thought himself such an astute business
man to have thought about 1 During those
months they stayed at Ma’s hovel—it' was
little more—and old Peter, who suddenly
seemed to get older, allowed Ma to order
him about as she liked. But never Sophie;
and Ma resented that. One day the cap-
tain had a stroke. Not a very serious one,
but afterwards he remonstrated no more
with Ma. Soon everyone called her Ma
Gannet, though she was for ever telling
people that, if it were not for her, where
would the old ninny and his chit of a girl
be now? Yet most of them knew, and
even Sophie guessed, that it was Peter’s
money which paid for everything she
bought.
This morning Sophie’s eyes did not long
see Ma. She went on staring at the dread-
ful raddled face, but she beheld a pair of
lively blue eyes and a man’s smile as he
swept off his hat to her.
‘‘Ho, now Miss Impertinence! I’ll box
yer ears fer yer if yer stare at a body like
that. Git on with yer!”
Ma went away inside to gossip to the old
man and left Sophie to struggle with the
washing, bending her slim back and wring-
ing heavy sheets out in the open with a
hot sun streaming down on the tubs. All
water had to be earned from the town
wells, and, although Ma employed a boy
who lugged the water to a row of barrels
behind the hut, she expected Sophie to dip
it into the tubs.
More than ever the child felt rebellious;
how long would this go on? Yet what
could she do, she thought with a bitter-
ness unnatural in her years. She had no
one in the world but Peter. Perhaps Mrs.
Coffey—but she would only take her away,
and Sophie loved the captain. How could
she leave him alone with Ma? And,
though Mrs. Coffey did teach her to read,
she probably wouldn’t really want her.
Who, indeed, would be likely to want a
chit of a girl who was no use for anything?
How often Ma assured Sophie of that!
Tears welled into her clear grey eyes, but
she brushed them aside and called to
Billycan as he came into sight carrying a
load of mangrove wood upon his shoulders.
“Come here, Billy. No can do by my-
self.”
With a cheerful grin the blackfellow cast
off his burden.
“Yow, Missi,” he grunted, and in a
moment had taken the heavy wet things
from the girl, and proceeded leisurely to
hang them out. The black man’s readiness
to help made Sophie feel better. She con-
trived to give Billycan many an extra
morsel of food or tobacco; the boy liked
her as much as he disliked old Ma, who
declared him a sulky fellow hardly worth
the food he ate. But' he was never sulky
with Sophie, he was always pleased to
drop any task set by his mistress in order
to help the girl when she asked.
“You finish’m all up?” inquired Sophie
now.
“Yow, Missi.”
“One good feller binghi, you, Billy,” she
smiled. “Maybe I get you baccy belonga
boss by’m bye.”
She pulled her old hat, which had be-
longed to Peter, down from a nail in the
iron wall and tweaked with caressing fin-
gers the ribbon Bella had given her. Then,
cramming it over a mass of soft brown hair,
she ran away. Ma would take it out of
her later on, she supposed, ’ but she meant
to do what she wanted for once.
Down to the edge of the creek she went
to look at the trim white schooner belong-
ing to the stranger with the smiling eyes.
She liked the vessel almost as much as she
liked its captain; and she thought it was
extraordinary to like anyone so much as
she liked him. Lots of men smiled at her;
sometimes they patted her head, some-
times even gave her lollies; but John For-
dyce was the only one who had ever lifted
his hat to the little girl. She wondered if
that made her like him, because it was
such a marvellous thing to do. But her
approval had something to do with his
eyes, too, and a queer warm feeling look-
ing into them had given her. She knew
she wanted very badly to see him again.
More than she had ever wanted anything
before. It almost hurt.
Suddenly, as she tried vaguely to under-
stand her sensations, she. glanced back along
the path and saw him striding down to
the shore. She felt herself drowning in a
wave of warm blood. She began to
tremble. What was the matter? Perhaps
she had taken the fever—but folks said
that made a body feel just dreadful,
whereas she was all happy inside herself,
though she did feel so strange.
She shrank back among the ghastly man-
grove stems, not wanting him to see her—
hoping that he would!
John Fordyce had found a pool and
washed away all memories of the night.
His eyes caressed. the lovely line of the
Sprite. “She’s a bonny ship!” he thought
for the hundredth time. His hair was still
wet from his swim, his skin tingling and
sticky and glowing, and he whistled as he
walked. He noticed Sophie’s shrinking
figure almost at once.
“Hello, child,” he called. “What have
you done with the goats?”
Sophie replied with no more than her
sudden flashing smile. How wonderful of
him to remember! She came out on to
the path. John paused. He had always
been fond of children. One of his griev-
ances against Euphemia - lay ■ in the delight
she took in the fact that the Lord denied
her a family; it wasn’t natural, thought
John, for a proper woman to be pleased
about that. But he was not thinking of
Euphemia just now.
“Have you lost your tongue?” he asked.
“And whatever is a little girl called Sophie
Gannet doing down here?”
“Looking at your schooner, sir,” an-
swered Sophie shyly.
“Do you like ships?”
“I love them. I’ve never been happy
since Peter came ashore after the Mary
Lee was burnt. What do you call yours,
sir?”
“The Sea Sprite.”
“Oh, what a pretty name! She’s got a
trim line about her—l’ll wager she’s a real
live craft, too!”
John smiled at the expression falling
from such youthful lips.
“You seem to know all about it, young
lady. May I ask if you sailed the Mary
Whatsername?”
Sophie shook her head in an access of
shyness. He was laughing at her! But
she found she did not mind. That was the
strangest pai’t of all—it did not seem to
matter what he said or did, everything
was right!
“You’re not far wrong,” he went on. “She
is. I love her, too. I’m going off now. I’ll
walk right across to the channel and call
for a dinghy. I mean to take the Sprite
out as soon as there is enough water.”
Sophie made no response, but the shadow
which fell across her eager face at his
words would have been obvious to a much,
less observant man than John Fordyce.
Strange little person! He could not tell
what sudden whim prompted him to ask
if she would care to go aboard with him.
The next moment he called himself a fool
to waste time showing a child round the
Sprite. What madness would he be up to
next? He began to withdraw when the
sight of her face restrained him. It was
radiant.
“Oh, sir!” she whispered.
He had not the heart at that to retract
his offer. It appeared pathetic to him that
such a trifle could give so much pleasure.
“Come along, then, and there is no need
to ‘sir’ me—l’m John Fordyce.”
As Sophie squelched along beside him
in the mud she peeped up with adoring
eyes. John Fordyce. She thought it the
nicest name she had ever heard. And as
he picked her up and swung her into the
dinghy she quivered at his touch. She
looked to his hands then in something like
amazement. Long brown strong hands,
better kept than any she had seen before.
How queer the touch of them should make
her feel even stranger than the smile in
his eyes! She was sitting beside him in
the stem. Almost unconsciously she slipped
her own fingers along the seat till they
touched his.
Wilson’s face peered over the side to
greet them, and a ciy of “Good day, boss,”
arose from the boys.
“Up you go,” cried John, wishing he
could have arrived on deck in time to see
Wilson’s expression at sight of this guest.
He would not have been disappointed. The
mate voiced his surprise in an oath which
would have caused Euphemia to swoon in
horror, but which brought not a tinge of
color to Sophie’s young cheeks. He asked
himself what in God’s name Mr. Fordyce
would do next! Inexperienced niggers—
and now a girl dressed in torn print and
what was once a man’s felt hat with a pink
ribbon tied round it! But he was defer-
ence itself by the time John clambered up,
gave a concise report of the last twenty-
four hours, and even asked permission to
go below.
John took Sophie over the Sprite. He
soon found she knew almost as much about
sailing as he did,, a knowledge explained
when she told him that for as long as she
could remember she had lived aboard the
dear old Mary Lee. But that was all she
did tell him - about herself, although he
gathered life ashore with the poor captain
and Ma to be so distasteful she preferred
to forget it, pretending for a time it no
longer existed. He grew curious to dis-
cover more, but her childish reluctance to
talk about Cossack made him refrain from
questioning. She talked to the diving boys
with the same friendly familiarity she
adopted towards Billycan, telling them to
be sure and. find the boss plenty big-feller
pearls. They nodded and grinned and
chattered, understanding her better than
any of the other whites aboard. Little
Jacko went so far as to present her with
one of his two kylies, a mark of esteem not
readily bestowed.
The cook did not share Wilson’s feel-
ings of disgust: when, finally, John took
Sophie to the cabin they found hot scones
and honey and tea awaiting them on the
little table.
. “I thought maybe the young lady would
iancy some light refreshments, sir,” ex-
plained Babbet'.
The young lady! Sophie blushed to hear
the unaccustomed phrase and John laughed
at her blushes.
“Thank you, Babbet. Would the young
lady?”
John made her pour tea, amused at the
anxious deliberation with which she per-
formed the office, almost as if it were a
holy rite. And for Sophie it was; she bit
her lip in her anxiety to behave like a
lady in a drawing-room. She was not
quite sure what a drawing-room might be,
but she had heard Mrs. Coffey talk about
her dear mamma’s, so she knew it without
doubt to be something extraordinarily gen-
teel, and she did her best to pour tea as
she felt sure Mr. Fordyce was well used to
seeing it poured.
Biit that meal was far from anything
John had ever even imagined. In its
novelty lay its charm. He sipped his tea,
then asked her permission to smoke, more
for desire to watch the sparkle of' her
astonished shy eyes than anything else. She
took off her hat, and her small head, with
silky hair and fine features, stood out
against the dark void of his bunk. What
a wicked shame to make such a fragile
creature herd goats! For the first tithe
John thought of her as other than a quaint
amusing child. Her appearance was child-
ish enough in all conscience, but he grew
aware at last of something in the way
she looked at him which set him wonder-
ing if she were indeed so young as he
imagined. Something shy and virginal,
but inquisitive as well.
Bella slept late. She awakened about
the time John Fordyce helped Sophie up
a rope ladder to the deck of the Sea Sprite.
Then she also sat up in haste, her first
coherent thoughts no less dismayed than
John’s.
Bella rarely analysed either feelings or
actions; she exploited emotion with the
careless unthinking acceptance of child or
savage. But this morning she realised her
feelings for John were in the nature of a
resurrection. The husk which had smiled
and chaffed through the past few years
enclosed again a living creature, soft, sen-
sible, filled with an infinite capacity for
loving or hating or suffering. Her pulses
hammered at thought of John.
Perhaps he had not gone even yet. No
sooner was that hope born than she rushed
to the window", throwing back the shutters
with a bang. A group of men outside
roared at a sudden vision of even more of
Bella than they were wont to see, and
she closed her window in haste. But her
dazzled eyes beheld on the dark walls of
the room a vignette of the creek, of the
tide racing in, of a dinghy leaving the
side of the still anchored Sprite. Fever-
ishly she began to dress. John Fordyce
would surely come into the bar before he
went out.
In a maze of delight Sophie ran back
to Ma’s bitter tongue and the goats. For
an hour she had dwelt in Heaven, with
blue sky overhead and blue sea under-
neath, and for company a man as gentle
as Peter in the far-off days when she
played happily on the deck of the Mary
Lee.
John Fordyce walked up to the store,
bought tobacco and tinned goods from
cases he had himself delivered to Coffey,
and then bore the storekeeper away to
Mark’s to bid him farewell. He was deep
in conversation as they stepped into the
bar, dim after the outside light, and at
first he failed to notice Bella.
“What will you drink, Mr. Coffey?” he
inquired, and, turning with his order,
looked straight into her eyes. Their pas-
sionate message escaped him. A swim;
Sophie’s innocent prattle; thought of his
imminent departure stood between him and
recollections of what he looked upon as
no more than a drunken escapade which
he would have been just as pleased to
have avoided. Entirely self-possessed, his
consciousness of the young woman had
vanished like the crowd of the previous
night; he was tranquil and serene as the
tiny settlement in the clear hard light of
morning.
“Good morning, Bella,” said he, pleas-
antly impersonal. “Will you be so good
as to draw some of the new beer for us?”
The young woman’s smouldering anger
at such cool indifference would have
flared into an ugly scene had not Baia
Budson at that second marched in as
though he owned the whole of Cossack,
Captain Mac Koo at his heels.
Intuition warned Bella that if she pre-
cipitated a crisis she would most certainly
forfeit any chance of again capturing
John’s attentions; no great acumen was
necessary to sense his antagonism to the
swashbuckling Baia. Yet it cost her a
tremendous effort to hold her peace, so
hurt and furious and sullen was she, that
a fight in which John might suffer offered
a not unappealing, though momentary
easement of her pain.
“Hello!” cried Budson in his loud voice.
“I lost sight of you last night, Fordyce!
But we had as nice a little game as I re-
member ! . I knew I could beat old Mark!
Where is he, Bella? Still totting up how
much it cost him? Man, it was amusin’
—he nearly fainted every bottle I cracked
over! He could see money. running out
on the ground the whole time!” His laugh
echoed round the room; winning, Baia
gloated, but he made a bad loser whatever
the game. “I’ll take you on to-night,
Fordyce.”


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1611.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. £ fi’lso’ooo
Reserve Fund .. ... «7ro’ooO
Reserve Liability 8,78^000
£23,710,000
£90,111,427
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane. ,
Victoria: THE WESTINUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; H. J. Ryan, Esq. i
9. E. Lost on, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the _ World,_ this
Bank oilers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SYDNEY to LONDON
via America! An inviting highway!
&£&**s**
m
Ss ‘'
Thousands study the
sky from the impres-
sive Adler planetarium
in Chicago's Grant
Park.
Below: Santa Barbara
dons mantillas and
strums guitars at her
annual "Fiesta"—relic
of Spanish gaiety.
FROM the Southern Cross to the
Northern Crown, the Short, Trans-
pacific Route to England is at once the
most interesting, the most educational,
and the most picturesque.
Matson liners span the Pacific to San
Francisco over an enchanted dream-trail
through phosphorescent seas, to the great
continent of America. After a day. in
Auckland, you touch at Suva in the Fijis,
Pago Pago in Samoa, Honolulu in Hawaii
—each with its own lure.
From San Francisco you have a choice of
routes across America. Perhaps you will
prefer to bridge the snow-crested Rockies,
then sweep across vast golden plains to
the frenzied bustle of Chicago. Or it may
be the far-famed glitter of Hollywood
which attracts you, and the deep mys-
teries of the south-western deserts. Either
of these routes to New York presents a
comprehensive picture of the American
nation, a new vista enormous in its scope.
Matson liners are cool, airy, and ap-
pointed to make your voyage free from
care and filled with pleasure. Movies • . •
daily newspapers ... deck sports ...
superb cuisine . . . orchestra ... cour-
teous and efficient service.
May we send you on illustrated "booklet
and full particulars?
Write to Dept . Al.
ill
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu . . . May 4 to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26,
1932
Book via MATSON for the utmost
in travel comfort, pleasure and
convenience.
Below: Olvera Street, in Los
Angeles Plaza, preserves the*
flavor and romance of Califor-
nia's Spanish days.
y
a
XV
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B 7981-3
“I think not, Captain,” answered John.
“I am going out on the tide.”
“You’re in the devil of a hurry to get
going. Where are you making for, the
Western Banks?”
“No,” said John, hesitating. jTm not
sure yet—l want to look round.” (
Baia eyed him suspiciously. “Well, don t
go too far north. Some of us went up last
year and the natives are bad and water
hard to get. No place for a newcomer.”
“Get out!” interpolated the genial
Mac Koo. “I’m bound there myself! There
is any amount of shell up there, and good
pearls, too. So long as Mr. Fordyce can
sail a ship he will be safe—he’ll need more
wits to avoid encountering uncharted
shoals than natives.”
“Oh, well, have it your own way,” re-
plied Budson impatiently. “Only don’t be
surprised if you catch a spear when you’re
looking for water!”
“Mercifully we’ve not all got as much
reason to fear a spear as you, Budson!”
retorted the old captain. “I’ve been wait-
ing an opportunity to warn you to take
heed how you treat your divers. You and
one or two others I could name are giv-
ing the pearlers a hell of a bad name.
I’m not above running in niggers myself
if a man can’t procure ’em any other way,
but I do believe in treating ’em fairly. I
might tell you mine all returned and
brought some of their friends, too, after I
let ’em depart for a pink-eye.”
Red rose in Baia’s cheeks.
“You damn well mind your own affairs,
old meddler!”
A reflection of his flush appeared on
Mac Koo’s face. “I will,” he roared back.
“I’m no meddler, I’ll thank you to remem-
ber, Baia Budson; but I’d not be sur-
prised if the Government makes up its
mind to meddle to some purpose one of
these days!”
Budson’s retort was not pleasant to hear.
For a second the men eyed each other
like angiy dogs.
“Well, sir, I warn you!” shrugged the
older man.
“Let’s drink to it, then!” cried Budson
with an oath. “To* the day when Baia
Budson can’t do as he damn well likes!
Come along, you two. Where’s Bella?”
Budson flung his arm round the young
woman’s waist, holding his glass to her
lips before he drank the toast.
“And that will be a long time coming,
won’t it, me dear?” he asked, his thin lips
curling in an evil smile. “Have you known
anyone to get the better of Baia yet?”
Bella shook her head; but her eyes, fast
on John’s form silhouetted against the
golden rectangle of the open door, glittered
strangely and her own lips curled in a
secret sneer.
John Fordyce did not look at her again.
He soon swept the bar a general good-bye
and walked out into the light.
CHAPTER VIII.
Concerning Sophie’s childish confes-
sion and the wicked jealousy it awak-
ened in Bella.
A quiet week ensued for Cossack. Not a
vessel remained in the creek; they all went
out on the spring tides. Even Mrs. Coffey
trapesed off inland to Roeboume, uncom-
fortably astride her husband’s horse, across
the marsh where mirages danced at noon,
away to the older settlement round the long
green pool at the foot of one of the end-
less blue-and-red hills jumping up out of
the plain. That visit from Mr. John For-
dyce, on top of newspapers and letters, had
awakened within her breast longings not
easily dismissed; nothing would ease her
yearning but a heart-to-heart talk to some
other lady about the daily tribulations of
life in the Great North-West. Coffey
escorted her, having borrowed horse and
saddle from Mark at the hotel, but he came
back the following day lest business .arrive
and find a deserted store.
So, although old Peter Gannet became
less querulous since he looked over an
empty creek, no longer worrying about
Sophie in the evenings, there were no read-
ing lessons for the child with Mrs. Coffey
away. Not that she missed what before
had been like a shower of rain on the
parched plain of her existence, for she lived
in a glorious mirage of the imagination.
Ma’s strident voice, her “Ho, now!” rose more
frequently than ever, but Sophie discovered
a hitherto rarely-used capacity for romanc-
ing; she led a secret inward life wherein
the most impossible .and entrancing adven-
tures befell John Fordyce and Sophie Gan-
net. Innocent childish dreams for the most
part, though sometimes he became the
knight and she the maiden of Mr. Tenny-
son’s poems, a poet on whom Mrs. Coffey
doted. Sophie’s hands washed dishes or
clothes and tended goats, but they were
not really the hands of Sophie, who was
far away rescuing Mr. Fordyce from
treacherous natives, or steering the Sea
Sprite miraculously through a willy-willy,
or nursing her captain back to life from
the effects of some vague and terrible illness.
Strange day-dreams for a little girl so
docile, so easily frightened by rough voices
and ugly words! Not until Mrs. Coffey
came home bringing one of her friends
for a whiff of sea air did the girl’s romances
take on a more significant texture.
One evening Bella sent Whisky up to ask
Ma if Sophie might come down and take
supper with her—there was not a soul at
the pub but Mark and herself. Sophie felt
pleased. Bella had sent for her befox-e when
she grew bored. It amused her to tell the
child stories of London and Sydney and
the wonderful clothes she wore in those
cities —Sophie, whose world extended no
further than the nor’-west coast, with
hazy recollections of Fremantle and Singa-
pore in the days before Peter Gannet took
to pearling. Bella’s flamboyancy demanded
an audience, and one so appreciative as the
child was not to be ignored in times ot
drought; moreover, she imagined herself a
thoughtful, kind soul to waste time on the
chit.
Sophie tied up her hair with the precious
pink ribbon and ran humming down the
hill. The sun set behind the hills in the
queer back-to-front way of CossaCk, where
you look over sea to the east instead of the
west as you feel sure it should be, and the
sky behind Jarman Island turned pink as
the ribbon in Sophie’s hair and the sea
gleamed silvef in the clear sky. June nights
turn chilly as the sun disappears.
Whisky had been sent out earlier, at low
water, to knock oysters from the rocks. He
chipped the shellfish out on the reef and
brought home a billycan full of the sweet
molluscs, washed in sea water, fresh and
luscious as no river oyster could ever taste.
Bella and Mark and Sophie consumed them
in the light of a lantern swinging from a
rafter in the pai’lor roof, the Chinese cook
peering from the kitchen door every few
moments to see that the feast progressed
satisfactorily. Sophie made a strange pic-
ture, shining grey eyes and sudden flashing
smile, seated betwixt the aquiline little man
and Bella’s colorful person. Mark insisted
upon filling her glass with Stout, a drink
she swallowed with a wry face, because
he told her it was good for her. “Make
your hair curl,” he quoted the nursery
adage. “And maybe put a bit of color in
your cheeks. She’s too thin, ain t she,
Bella?” He and the young woman for
the most part talked across the child, gossip
about men and boats and pearls; but
Sophie did not mind, she was far away on
the Sea Sprite, eating her supper in the
dear little cabin with Mr. Fordyce, and the
yellow face she glimpsed round the door
belonged to that funny fellow who made
such lovely scones and called her “the
young lady”!
For the first time in a year Bella found
her audience unresponsive. True, Sophie
settled as amenably as ever on an old
deal case in her room, whilst Bella made
herself comfortable on the one chair, but
her usual rapt admiration was lacking.
Although not even to herself would she
admit it, Bella had asked the girl to supper
because talk about John she must. First
of all she displayed the new gown, but
though Sophie exclaimed with gratifying
admiration, her attention would no doubt
have drifted again but for mention of Mr.
Fordyce. ~ „ „
“You must look beautiful in it, Bella,
she exclaimed with a flash of warm enthusi-
asm. •
“I do.” Now was her chance! That
new pearling johnnie thought so too.”
“Johnnie?”
Bella snickered. “Oh, I wasn’t meaning
to be witty and all. You do catch on to
words so. Still, it is his name —I might as
well have used it as not.”
“Do you mean Mr. Fordyce?” Sophie’s
voice held a hint of ice. She did not care
to hear such familiar handling of so splendid
a name.
“Yes. He’s a gay lad, that one, and no
mistake. Did you see him?”
“Yes.”
“What did you think of him and all?” she
demanded eagerly. If Sophie extolled him
she would tear him to pieces; if she seemed
indifferent, she would praise him to the
skies. Whichever way mattered little, so
long as she might talk aloud about the
man for whom she hungered, yet whose
treatment of her she so resented. Talk she
mus t —it was not in Bella to endure so
much emotion in silence. She certainly did
not expect the reply her question called
forth.
Think of him! Sophie was very young;
she might disapprove of the way Bella spoke
about her god, but deny him she could not.
The dreams swept from her eyes, a flush
deepened on her cheeks, she clasped her
hands tighter round her knees till the
knuckles stood out white.
“Oh, Bella, I think he is the best and
kindest and most wonderful man in the
world!”
Her soft tones, ringing with exultation,
flowed over Bella in a freezing douche. It
was her turn to answer coldly.
“Indeed you do! And may I ask why?”
Sophie failed to notice any change m
the woman’s voice. Little by little Bella
gleaned the whole tale, right down to the
“young lady” and the way in which Mr.
Fordyce had asked permission to smoke.
And as she demanded detail after detail,
her bright eyes swept Sophie like a snake’s
eyes, and her heart shrank within her till
it felt hard and heavy as a pebble. So
that was why he had forgotten Bella so
swiftly; that was the sort of fellow he
was! Not much better than Baia, for all
his pretty manners. To think that while she
had waited for him he had enticed this
chit off to his schooner!
“What did he say to you? What did
he do?” she persisted.
Sophie looked at her in startled surprise.
“Why, I’ve just been telling you, Bella
dear.”’ • '
“Don’t 'dear’ me! Are you telling the
truth? Is that all?”
(To be continued next week.)


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
e
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
«*Lr
T* s jm<{££‘
The Renrut Quadruple is the most efficient hand-pump on
the market. It is the result of over 30 years’ experience
in pneumatic engineering.
This remarkable pump works on a quadruple compression
principle, and although smaller in diameter than many other
pumps it delivers far more air per stroke —with the
,/* _ minimum of effort.
RENRUT QUADRUPLE
Supplied with Push-on Connector.
Price, 60/- (With gauge, 5/- extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Facto-ry Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
/
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Ammon Ra .started at 7 to 2 on in the
Victoria Derby. He could have been backed
at 11 to S on for the V.A.T.G. St. George
Stakes at Caulfield on Saturday. This
illustrated the prevalent uncertainty as to
whether J. T. Jamieson’s star galloper had
recovered his best form. With one excep-
tion —old Highland—the St. George Stakes
runners were three-year-olds. Ammon Ra
and Johnnie Jason each had a 101 b. penalty;
Viol d’Amour and Rondaliua carried bare
weigh t-for-age, and 101 b. allowance was
claimed on behalf'of Idle Banter, Manilus
and Gold Digger. Manilus finished a bad
last. Viol d’Amour, a thoroughbred of more
imposing appearance than Ammon Ra,
attempted to outpace that rival, but the race
was all over after they headed for home,
Ammon Ra scoring by three lengths. High-
land and Rondaliua were on even terms in
third position for most of the journey. They
cracked up a furlong from the winning post,
and Johnnie Jason (33 to 1) distinguished
himself by coming from almost the extreme
rear to deprive Rondaliua of third prize.
Of those who finished behind him the only
horse that Ammon Ra may have to fear in
the V.R.C. St. Leger is Johnnie Jason; but
a more formidable antagonist will be Chat-
ham, if Ike Foulsham persuades A. E. Blair
to withdraw the Windbag colt from the New-
market Handicap. Chatham has been
nibbled at in Newmarket-Australian Cup
doubles, but none of the money was staked
for the stable. The owner is hopeful of
Bert: Sorry, Gert, but we cant so
AMY FURTHER
Gert: /x vJhatts> w/rono* V*
Bert;"Run out of benzine".
Geßt you any in your.
CIGARETTE LIGHTER ?"
overthrowing Ammon Ka in tlie Futurity
Stakes next Saturday. Chatham, in common
with Middle Watch, who conquered Green-
line in the William Reid Stakes at Moonee
Valley, will have to put up a 71b. penalty,
which is 81b. less than that incurred by
Ammon lia. It appears to The Bulletin
scribe that Chatham ought to win. If that
happens the Chatham people will be encour-
aged to have another crack at the Maori-
lander in the Leger.
James Barden returned to Randwick on
Monday after spending about a week in Mel-
bourne and seeing Golden Gate run in the
Oakleigh Plate. He considered that the
Limond filly would be more at home over the
“straight six” at Flemington than at Caul-
field. Golden Gate did exceptionally well
to run Blematic to three-quarters of a length
in the second division of the Oakleigh Plate,
and such a brilliant young lady will have to
bo seriously reckoned with in the Newmarket
Handicap. Favorite for the event in which
Golden Gate figured was Old Ming, who had
been regarded as unlucky to lose the Carring-
ton Stakes to Greenline, but his form at
Caulfield was discouraging. Barden ex-
pressed delight with the appearance of
Greenline, who is being trained temporarily
by James Scobie. Barden is sanguine of
his idol landing the Futurity Stakes; but,
with 51b. higher penalty than Ammon Ra
and 131 b. more, than Chatham, he has a
stupendous task to face.
Three victories were recorded at Caul-
field by Maoriland horses. Rulanut (Chief
Ruler—Cocoanut) and Closing Time (Tip-
pler—Miss Myra) annexed their respective
divisions of the Juvenile Handicap; Closing
Time is a stable-companion of Ammon Ra.
George Jones, of Surveyor fame, trains Rula-
nut for W. R. Kemball, who rose from a
workman’s position at Footscray (Vic.) to
be the owner of picture theatres in the
Dominion. Rulanut cut down Wynette’s
daughter, Segati, in brilliant style. Closing
Time made his two-year-old rivals look
cheap. Liberal, by Chatham’s sire, Wind-
bag, was a hot favorite for Rulanut’s race.
He shaped fairly, but was eclipsed in form
by the Heroic colt, Vauntry, who conceded
Liberal 61b. and took third prize.
The Vic. rule restricting the size of fields
in races of a mile and under, run round a
turn, continues to embarrass the V.A.T.C.
For the second year in succession, the Oak-
leigh Plate had to be contested in two divi-
sions. Duncan, who stands right out from
Vic. lightweight jockeys, won the first sec-
tion on Umbertana, from Jack Holt’s stable,
and the next on Blematic, who belongs to
and is trained by D. Marks. Though Cecil
Godby is “on the wrong leg” as a trainer,
the family reputation in that line was up-
held when brother Frank sprang a mild sur-
prise by annexing the Salisbury Welter with
the Eastern Monarch mare Sonnica. Bailey
Payten has a very consistent horse in Pret-
zel, but this Spelthorne colt had to strike
his colors to Mira Donna in the Bond Cup.
Winner belongs to R. C. Power, whose late
father landed the Sydney Cup of 1879 with
Savanaka and was successful in that race
20 years later with Diffidence.
For Saturday’s events: —
Alma Stakes: Median; next, Sanballat.
Woodcliff Handicap: Pretzel; next, In-
ducement.
Futurity Stakes; Chatham, 1; Ammon
Ra, 2; Greenline, 3.
Hawksburn Handicap; Cleave; next, Car-
nadine.
* ❖ ❖ *
Winooka lias been one of the favorites
for the Doncaster Handicap since his excel-
lent second to Whittingham at Rosehill, at
a disadvantage of 241 b. and half-fit. Demand
for the Windbag colt has increased as a
result of Whittingham’s very smart gallop
in the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park.
On a track with a soft surface, in the
straight at least, Whittingham galloped six
furlongs in lmin. 121 sec which would
be reckoned first-class at Canterbury Park
in the most favorable circumstances. The
brilliant three-year-old, who was favorite at
5 to 2, definitely proved his superiority to
Sweet Valais (4 to 1), a close second to
Ivillarney at Rosehill, though Booth was
very confident of his mare. Whittingham
was reported a few weeks ago to have
changed hands at a couple of hundred
guineas. If he was really sold at that price,
or round about it, there hasn’t been a better
bargain in horseflesh for many years. He
is by imported Rosewing, dam of Tantrum,
out of Linlass, a Linacre mare.
Veilmond started in Whittingham’s race.
He looked more forward than he was ex-
pected to be at this time of year, and
speckers took eights. H’e ran fifth.
It was an unlucky day for Booth, who
provided an even-money favorite for the
Highweiglit Handicap in Veneer. In appear-
ance fit enough for his job, Veneer was
never .sighted on the journey, the topweight,
Lady O’Clare (8 to 1), leading all the way.
Cliaralf (3 to 1) accompanied her for a
couple of. furlongs; then Davidson took a
pull on him, expecting the mare to tire and
come back; but she didn’t. A good-looking
country horse, George Talto, was backed for
this race, but trouble at the barrier disposed
of his chance.
Queensland supplied the winner of the
Canterbury Handicap—Rube Paddington, a
mare with a good Brisbane record and mem-
ber of a family of which perhaps the most
famous representative was Julia Grey. She
was second favorite at fours, Jeypore being
a point shorter. According to custom, Jey-
pore tried to make it a runaway affair, but
he does not hang on as well as he used to,
and was passed in the straight by the mare
from the north. However, Gleaner (20 to
11 and Rogerson (10 to 1) made a very
close finish of it, there being only heads be-
tween. With a clear run all through Roger-
son must have won; Pike kept Rube Pad-
dington out of trouble, and his skill at the
crisis was the deciding factor.
Strength, the Metropolitan winner, is no
light of other days. Unbacked, he ran a
capital race in the Campsie Handicap, beat-
ing everything but Lord Eudorus (6 to 1),
to whom he was giving 201 b. And very few
horses in Australia can do that over the
distance —a mile and a furlong—when Lord
Eudorus is in form. Strength has Bst. 61b.
in the Sydney Cup, and, as he can both stay
and carry > weight, he must be accorded a
good chance.
*l*
For Ilawkesbury on Saturday;—
Clarendon Handicap: Ethics or Carat;
next, Barrios.
Flying Handicap: George Talto; next,
Veilmond.
Autumn Handicap; Magnetic; next.
Gleaner.
Highweight Handicap: Beau Dennis or
Ethics; next, Wedding Feast.
* * 'fi ❖
“Aguardiente”: It was given out that
Phar Lap would make his first public
appearance in the Americas next Sunday in
a 10,000-dollar handicap at Agua Caliente,
but Davis says his horse will not start. Phar
Lap has only had slow track work since
landing, and it would have been madness to
race him so soon. It will take Woodcock
all his time to get the chestnut fit for the
big Agua Caliente Handicap in March, which
is his main objective, though reports are
that he is already favorite.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Joe Connell (8.10) pleased everyone but
Young Gildo (8.10) at Leichhardt on Fri-
day. It was his first fight in this country
and the Filipino handed out plenty of pun-
ishment before Connell struck form. Joseph’s
lusty lefts to the ribs had the brown man
troubled, but just when the white warrior
looked like winning in the sixth round he
landed low. Gildo, on a foul.
❖ * ❖ i’fi
_ “Mitt Shover”: Every old Australian ring-
sider will hear with regret of the death of
American Jimmy Clabby, one of the finest
boxers Australia ever saw. Clabby first came
to Australia in 1911, and some of his fights
with Australian Dave Smith, then in his
prime, verged on the homeric. Few will
forget the mill between the pair at the old
Sydney Stadium before the roof was on. In
a tropical downpour the pair went at it
hammer and tongs for the full 20 rounds of
those days, over their, ankles in the water
that was flooding the ring. So entranced
were the many spectators by this great mill
that they even neglected to put their um-
brellas up, and went away drenched to the
bone, but confident that they had seen the
fight of the century. A wonderful boxer and
a generous fellow, Clabby got little good
out of the game in the long run, though he
must have won thousands.
* * * :|s
Two of a kind clashed when Billy Meeske
(14.1) “wrestled” Tom Lurich (14.2) at
Leichhardt. To show that he could be as
rough as the Russian, Meeske knocked Lurich
out with a right swing to the chin in the
fourth l’ound. A penalty fall went against
William for this, but his full arm-bar,
abetted by a body-press,, made Lurich submit
in the fifth. The Victorian won decisively
on points. As each had a fall to his credit,
however, the match was declared a draw.
Jack O’Malley (12.9) stopped Jim Jeffries
(12.3). Jim resembles the American Jeffries
only in name.
The Ins and Outs
The South Africans have been dogged by
unfavorable weather conditions through most
of their tour, but the climax came in the
fifth and final Test in Melbourne, which it
was hoped would put the financial success
of the venture beyond doubt. Winning the
toss, Cameron elected to bat on a wicket
which seemed to have rolled out slow and
easy after two or three days’ rain. The
Melbourne wicket, however, has deceived
visiting skippers more than once, and again
lived up to its evil reputation. By lunch-
time 9 of the tourists were out for 33 and
the tenth wicket fell for 36 immediately
after. The pitch was at its worst, and
only skipper Cameron managed to reach
double figures with 11. Ironmonger took 6
wickets for 5 runs, a record for Tests,
though Rhodes and Noble have each taken
7 for 17 at Birmingham and Melbourne re-
pectively. Especially popular was . the suc-
cess of .the young Victoriau-Tasmanian fast-
bowler Nash, whose tally was 4 for IS.
Australia, minus Ponsford and Bradman,
the latter temporarily out of action, did not
do much better. Fingleton (40) and Kippftx
(42) practically saved the situation, the
total reaching 153 ; Bell, Quinn and McMil-
lan each got three wickets. Batting-out
time on the first day, South Africa lost
Christy to Nash for 5 runs. Play was im-
possible on Saturday.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” ; It takes the Victorians a long
time to make up their minds when it comes
to any question connected with finance, that
being evidence, no doubt, of the strong Scot-
tish strain pervading the population. The
V.C.A. considered the tendering of a benefit
cricket match to Don Blackie and H. Iron-
monger, a matter that, in the opinion of the
outside world, is long overdue. Nothing very
definite was arrived at by the meeting save the
suggestion that the match be postponed until
the season after next. Ye ken, the English-
ers will be here in the coming season, and
the thought of sacrificing one of their dates
in favor of a match for the two Victorian
veterans was not to be thought of for a
moment. All the two ancients will have to
do, then, is to wait until the years roll by.
* :!: lit lit
“Ibn el Issar”: After much backing and
filling, an Indian cricket team to visit
Britain this coming season has been decided
on. Bombay, which supplies perhaps the
best cricket in the Raj, is standing out, but
otherwise the selection is said to be thor-
oughly representative. The team will be
skippered by the Maharajah of Patiala, one
of the great Punjab princes, whose generous
patronage of the game is world-famous.
Three other native princes are in the side,
which also includes several Indian officers.
(Continued on page 81.)
N.S.W. players practically swept the
board at the Australian tennis champion-
ships in Adelaide. Of the Japanese visitors,
Satoh reached the semi-finals, only to be
outed by Hopman. The latter, now play-
ing as a Victorian, had a rare battle
with Crawford in the final, losing three
of five sets. Partnered by Queens-
lander Moon, Crawford won the doubles
from Gerald Patterson and Hopman,
and with Mrs. Crawford took the mixed
doubles. In the women’s matches Mrs.
Buttsworth won for the Ma State against
the South Australian Kitty le Messurier.
and, partnering Mrs. Crawford, collected the
women’s doubles. In the junior singles,
young McGrath made short work of South
Australian Quist, though Quist and Schwartz
were victorious in the junior doubles.
England scored its first win in this year’s
Rugby internationals by beating Ireland 11-8
at Dublin, and now takes second place on
the table to Wales.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
f BulletirTTWfiinqs
252 Georqe Street.
nj S
Y D N
See announcement page 13.
The Ins and Outs
“Der Jong”: Two of the Afrikander
cricket side have practically been P as l?“'
gers throughout the tour, bteyn and
der Merwe. In his few chances Steyn, who
was the last man selected, showed bimseit
to be a good batsman and a brilliant cover
point. Van der Merwe, also with
chances, proved to be a polished wicke
keeper whom many preferred on his rew
showings to liis skipper Cameron as an
Aunt Sally, while he was also a more than
useful batsman. Both men left for hmne
this week, the balance of the side being
booked for the hurried visit to Maonland,
where only three matches, including one
Test at Christchurch, will be played I hat
over, the visitors return to Australia, aim
after a final match against a mixed Aus-
tralian side at Perth, will head for home
and beauty. # * *
“Fitzcray”: It is expected the South
Africans will clear their expenses with a bit
to spare, provided the takings for the final
Test in Melbourne are up to standard. Ihe
Australian Board of Control lias guaranteed
them against a loss of £3OOO ba s , c( l on an
estimated expenditure of £12,000. Some
£4OOO of the expenses were incurred m
South Africa for fares, allowances, etc., and
in taking this back it is likely exchange Will
absorb £lOOO of it. It is probable that the
money will be invested in Australia, until
the exchange position eases. Any loss m this
connection, however, will have. to be met by
South Africa and not Australia.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victoria’s new bowler, Fleet-
woOd-Smith, who took 6 for 80 in. his first
appearance in big cricket against the
Afrikanders at Melbourne last week, is only
22. A right-hand player in all other respects,
he nevertheless taught himself to bowl left-
hand slows. Unlike most of his kind lie
spins the ball in from the off to a right-
hand batsman, with an occasional disguised
one that goes the other way. Fleetwood-
Smith, who plays with St. Kilda, is
a fine fieldsman, though nothing extra-
ordinary as a batsman. His future career
will be watched with interest, for a bowler
of his type is badly needed in Australia
to-day. A pity the Australian selectors
did not give him a chance in the final Test
at, Melbourne when Ponsford dropped out
through illness.
“Anno Dorn.”: Arthur Mailey’s opinions
on international cricketers must be received
with respect, for he has seen a good deal
of them on both sides of the water. And
when, dealing with the selection of the
next English team, he suggests that Voce,
the Notts lefthander, might “cause Bradman
more concern than anyone else,” he is voic-
ing a view held by more than one Aus-
tralian of the 1930 victorious team. But
Mailey’s assertion that if Woolley, Hobbs
and Hendren are included in the next Eng-
lish side he will feel much less confident
about Australia’s success comes as some-
thing of a startler, for, magnificent batsmen
as all three have proved themselves in the
past, they are all almost certainly beyond
their best. Hobbs will be 50 next December,
Woolley is rising 45 and Hendren is 43.
!.s * *
“Shrewsbury” : Looking back over the last
English cricket season as chronicled in the
“Cricket Annual,” the names of a lot of old
friends crop up. That wonder bowler Syd
Barnes will be 56 this year, but he topped
the list of the bowlers in the Lancashire
League at the end of the season with
115 wickets at a cost of 6.30 runs apiece.
The mercurial West Indian Constantine,
playing for Nelson in the same League,
made 801 runs for an average of 50.00, while
he took 91 wickets costing a point over 9
runs apiece. This batting average heads
the League list, for it was not a batsman’s
season. Still, the West Indian, mighty
smiter as he is, had the advantage of play-
ing on the small League grounds, and it is
safe to say that the outfieldsmen would have
needed an aeroplane to get near many of
his strokes. South Australian Arthur Rich-
ardson also had a good season with Bacup.
His double was 472 runs for an average of
29.50 and 65 wickets, costing 9.4 each.
* & * *
“Marsh”: It’s more than likely that
Queensland’s top-notch all-rounder Leo
O’Connor may return to first-class cricket.
A difference of opinion with the State selec-
tors sent him into retirement, but recent suc-
cesses in club cricket have been a factor in
patrons of the game seeking to end the
trouble. One of Australia’s leading wicket-
keepers, O’Connor is a first-class opening
batsman and a useful change bowler; now
that Hornibrook has turned big cricket in
and Hurwood migrates to New South Wales,
the re-entry of O’Connor would stiffen up a
side greatly in need of more backbone. An
ex-Victorian. O’Connor captained the north-
ern State XI for years.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : Though no definite determina-
tion has as yet been come to by the Austra-
lian tennis heads, it is probable that a team
for the Davis Cup will be mustered. In any
case Australia has been included in the draw T
for the opening round, and will figure, if
at all, in the North American zone. The
first match will be against Cuba, and in
spite of past experience One almost feels
inclined to tip a victory for our side here.
America will be meeting Canada, and the
winner of that s bout will play the victor in
the other, Mexico, the only other starter in
the zone, having to tackle the survivor.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : Jack Crawford has
hit back at the people who complain
about his in-and-out form. John wrath-
fully explains that his latest poor show-
ing—on the first day of the Test
match with Japan at Perth—was due to
weariness following on the long overland
train journey. This was probably the case,
though the Nipponese, who cleaned up the
slate on the first day, didn’t seem markedly
distressed. But there have been other occa-
sions when the same inconsistency has been
shown, and when the question of tiring
journeys has not entered into the matter at
all. No doubt Crawford gets too much
tennis, travelling as he does, all over the
Country to engage in the game. He should
cut this out and so avoid the risk of stale-
ness. As an amateur he lias nothing to lose •
by doing so.
* * * *
“Gleiielg” : Sixteen-year-old Vivian McGrath
has been the hero of the Australian tennis
championships in Adelaide. In addition
to downing the formidable Queenslander
Moon, he had students of form thinking
when he also made short work of Dunlop. But
though he made a plucky fight for it, the kid
was no match for the Japanese champion
Satoh, who beat liim in three straight sets,
winning IS games to seven. Satoh is one
of the world’s stars, so there is nothing
for McGrath to be ashamed of.
* * * *
The deciding tennis Test between Aus-
tralia and Japan will be staged in Sydney, and
there should be a lot of interest in the meet-
ing, which will also be a final gallop for
candidates for the Australian Davis Cup
team. The selectors have chosen Crawford
and Hopman, with Sproule as third man.
This last selection has come as a surprise,
for Dunlop made such a good showing in
the Perth match, won by Australia, that
he was considered a certainty for the third
tourney. A good many people would like
to have seen McGrath given a chance, but
apparently the selectors consider him too
young for Davis Cup consideration at pre-
sent. If so, the selectors are right; it would
be idiotic to take the lad from school and
send him abroad.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: Leslie Shaw, sometime cap-
tain of Yarra (Vic.) club, lost an eye,
and in consideration of his accident
the handicapper pushed Shaw from the
scratch mark to a 10 handicap. That this
was an error was shown the other day when
Shaw tied for the Sorrento (Vic.) Cup and
in the play-off bolted from liis opponent,
returning a gross card of 74 and a net score
of 64. His playing total was only five worse
than the course record. After all, the golf-
ing maxim “Keep your eye on the ball” only
mentions one eye.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: There has been a good
deal of argument in Sydney golf circles as
to what constitutes a recognised club,
and the N.S.W. Golf Council has attempted
to s.ettle the matter by ruling that, with the
exception of the A.I.F. competition, the
recognised clubs shall be the Australian,
Royal Sydney and all clubs affiliated with
NOT A MOMENT TO BE LOST.
SPORT: “For ’Eaven's sake get a move on yer tin 'are, mate. I can’t ’old these cows
much longer.”
the suburban district and country associa-
tions. There has been “trafficking” in play-
ers, amounting in some cases to veiled profes-
sionalism. The council has ruled that any
member of grade teams desiring in future
to play with another club’s grade team must
first receive the council’s permission—ill
news for the pothunter.
* * * *
“Mt. Rennie”: It seems probable that
Moore Park club will shift its location to
Ascot racecourse. Years ago this area was
the site of the Royal Sydney links, and
traces of the old bunkers can still be seen.
A pow-wow has taken place between the
club and a syndicate of golfers which holds
a lease of the course, and the latter has
offered to l&y out 18 Ijoles of full length,
build a clubhouse and give the Moore Park-
ers sole control at week-ends for 15 years.
* * * *
“Niblek”: Last year’s winners of Queens-
land’s A and B pennants, the Bris-
bane Golf Club at Yeerongpilly, sprang
a surprise by withdrawing from pen-
nant play in 1932. The ostensible rea-
son was that members did not desire _to
have their course overcrowded with visi-
tors. Whether 14 visitors every other Satur-
day (seven aside in each grade) would do
this is a moot point. It is likely that several
of the low-markers, including Stan Francis,
will plav in pennants for the newly-opened
municipal course, Victoria Park. Francis
‘ should be hard to beat there, as he designed
the links and is still supervising work.
* # * *
“Westchester”: One of the big events of
the American golfing year, the Texas open
championship, saw Australian Joe Kirkwood
in top form for the first round, which he
finished with a card of 70, or one below
par. Later he dropped back, the winner
turning up in Clarence Clark, whose grand
total was 257. Though he has not managed
to get his nose first past the post in any
of the big events this season, Joe has been
well up among the money all the time.
As the game is played in America all through
the year, the far South and West stag-
ing its big events when the winter has
closed the golf courses in the North, there
is good money in' following the seasons
round..
“Baffy”: In spite of greatly extended
courses and elaborate bunkering new golt
records continue to be established. lor
some time Englishman C. A. Whitcombes
62 at Crewe Hill in England, mentioned in
a recent Bulletin, was thought to be un-
approachable for a full course. Now
America claims that one Smith, of Ato® ns
County club, has returned a card of. 63 f ?f
a full' course of 6300 yards. He is said
to have done 9 consecutive holes m 26. a
fraction under 3’s, Much would depend,
of course, on how the links are bunkered.
Crewe Hill is a regulation British course,
and therefore full of pitfalls. Many other
courses are purposely left comparatively
easy for the less skilful players, who make
up the majority of the club members, and
Athens may be one of these, since Smith is
by no means among the American champions.
yjj jjj
“Baffy”: The return of the Americans to
what is practically the standard golf ball
as recognised by St. Andrews has been
whole-hearted. The big, light ball introduced
some time ago a.s the American standard
was found to bo quite uncontrollable by the
average player, especially in a wind. Ameri-
can players were handicapped by having to
use a different type of ball abroad, and
British teams in America found themselves
compelled to play with a different pill from that
to which' they were accustomed. The new ball
came into official use at the beginning of
the year and was welcome® by experts and
mugs alike. It is practically the same as
the regulation ball in other countries,
though there is a fractional difference in
weight.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe”: Norman Smith continues to
meet with exasperating delays in his mis-
sion of setting up a new world’s motor-speed
record, the Maoriland beach on which the
attempt is to be made having obstinately
refused to live un to its reputation as an
ideal speedway. To make matters more
aggravating, Malcolm Campbell is now at
Daytona with his record-breaking car, and
makes no bones about his intention of try-
ing to set up new figures for Smith to
tackle before the latter gets going.
“H'otham”: The Melbourne motoring
party which set out some time ago to visit
Britain via Darwin, Asia and Europe, halt-
ing by the wayside to take part in the Monte
Carlo Rally, cast up safe and sound at
Coventry the other day with its three 9-h.p.
Kiley cars. The party, which included four
women, covered some 12,000 miles at a con-
servative estimate, and it is worth noting
that it arrived at Coventry with the tyres
which were on the cars when the expedition
left Melbourne. The tyres were Dunlop-
Perdriau standard balloons made in Aus-
tralia by Australian workmen.
* * * *
“Whizz”: A new light-car record went
up the other day when George Eyston drove
a 7-h.p. M.G. over two one-mile runs on the
Pendine Sands at an average speed of 1174
m.p.h., or 124 m.p.li. better than the pre-
vious best. At one time Eyston was going
over 120 m.p.li. but was handicapped by bad
visibility, the fog making driving dangerous.
These Welsh sands have a sinister reputa-
tion, for it was on them that Parry Thomas
was killed while attempting a world’s record.
* s< * *
“Touraeg”: The motor-car continues to
invade the great open spaces. A French
company has now linked up Algiers with
northern Nigeria, and runs a nvotor-’bus
service weekly across the once trackless
Sahara. Petrol- and water-pumps have been
established in the desert at intervals of 200
miles and at the northern and southern edge
of the Sahara the company has established
hotels. The route is available to private
motorists, but these are compelled to hire
one of the company’s guides for the desert
section, he holding the petrol and water
keys. The route links up with those through
the Belgian and British possessions in
Central and eastern Africa, and it is now
possible to motor from Nairobi to London,
some 7500 miles, by utilising the steamer
services across the Straits of Gibraltar and
the English Channel.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The track cycling events of
the Olympic Games will be held in the Rose
Bowl stadium at Pasedena, commencing on
July 30. The big stadium has a seating
capacity of 90,000, and a special wooden
track is.to be built for the occasion, while
the programme will include both individual
and tandem racing. The road cycling event
will be run on August 4, starting from the
foothills of the Sierras and following the
ocean road to Santa Monica, an outlyine
section of Los Angeles.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: It is practically certain that
the Mosman crew will again represent
N.S.W. on the Yarra in the race, for the
King’s Cup. The club’s recent victory in
the State championship is its sixth succes-
sive win in this event, and the tenth in 11
years. It is doubtful if there are many
better combinations than Mosman in the
rowing world to-day, and one would like
to see them at Henley to be pitted against
some of the famous English clubs. Many,
indeed, consider that the Mosman crew
should have been the first choice, for the
Olympiad. Three-quarters of the selected
team are obvious passengers, and the money
wasted on them would have financed the
eight and their cox-coach, R. J. Daly.
* * * *
“Shell” : In Herbert Turner, of Ilaberfield
club, N.S.W. looks to have unearthed a likely
successor to Bobby Pearce. Turner’s victory
in the State sculling championship was a
remarkable one for a man who has been
sculling for less than a year. He beat the
opposition by streets, this including a N.S.W.
and Australian title-holder, and his. time,
19min. 10 2-ssec., was the best done in this
event for years. Turner, though not as
big as Pearce, lias plenty of weight, a
great asset to a sculler. He is certain of
selection as N.S.W. representative in the
Australian championship in Melbourne, and
there seems to be no one in sight likely to
trouble him.
J. S. W. Eve, who will manage the Olym-
pic team, is well qualified for the job, for he
has had previous Olympic experience, and in
his time was a swimmer and diver, of con-
siderable note, especially as a junior. In
1915 he won the junior swimming and diving
championships at the Panama Exposition,
and in 1924 accompanied the Australian
team to the Paris Olympiad, aoting as
honorary secretary-treasurer, while for some
years he has filled ihe same office for the Aus-
tralian Olympic Federation. He is a noted
organiser, having mustered the 1928 team for
Amsterdam, and the side which went to the
British Games in Canada two years ago, in
addition to the present lot for Los Angeles.
i\s :|c ❖ ❖
“Cash Amateur” : There was mild excite-
ment in swimming circles the other day when
Charlton was approached with an offer to
turn professional and engage in a series of
matches with Johnny Weissmuller, the
American to be imported for the purpose.
“Boy” turned the proposition down with
emphasis, so that was that. Charlton has
accepted an invitation to visit Maoriland,
leaving Sydney about March 24. The con-
sent of the Australian Swimming Union is
necessary, and as the champion will be on :
of the draw-cards at the Bridge Games in
Sydney in March it is hardly likely to be
forthcoming.
Back from the National Games in Mel-
bourne, swimmer Noel Ryan won the N.S.W.
mile by 80 yards at Bondi baths. His time
was 22min. lOsec., the best on record by an
Australian swimmer, and a fifth of a second
better than his own record. The youngster
has plenty of time to improve, and whether
he gets away with an Olympic title or not,
the trip will teach him a lot.
% * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum and Tom
Newman sailed last week for America on
their mission of converting the Yanks from
the weird pastime" they call billiards to the
real thing. Walter is keen on persuading his
hosts to have the game standardised, as are
golf, tennis and most other sports, instead
of persisting with the wearisome cannon
game. Pockets are used in the “pool” variety
of American billiards, so the Yanks are not
unfamiliar with them. It is hoped that a
couple of the leading American professionals
can be induced to visit London next year to
take part in an international tourney.
* a- * *
“Mace”: Joe Davis, professional billiards
Champion of England, made what is claimed
as a world’s snooker record in London the
other day, totting up 132 and beating his
previous best of 105. In the break after a
sequence of 14 reds, with 10 blacks, two
pinks, a blue and a brown, he sank all the
colored balls. As to the record, A. Mann, of
Birmingham, hoisted 147 in 1928, and E. O.
O’Donoghue, of Auckland (M.L.), is credited
with 134, so Joseph will have to get busy
again.
“Lying Two” : Professor Maxwell Walker,
who skippered the winning rink in the M.L.
bowling championships the other day, hails
from Auckland. H'e is the outstanding M.L.
player in all departments of the game, and
is a triple M.L. titleliolder, having won the
singles, pairs and now the rinks.. The last-
named is the blue riband of M.L. bowls, and
while he has had many a try at it, this is
the professor’s first success, though he has
once been runner-up.
“Mawrot” : Some of the comments which
followed Jimmy Carlton’s decision to give up
running for the priesthood surprised by their
revelation of a widespread Australian in-
ability to grasp the bare elements of the
religious view of life. People were mourn-
fully insinuating that Carlton had let Aus-
tralia down when the young man was on
the eve of undertaking what he must con-
sider the most important work that can fall
to the lot of maii. Followers of Carlton’s
brilliant athletic career from its beginning
may naturally regret that it will not be
crowned by an Olympiad triumph. But
perhaps the sprinter has already done more
for Australia than he could have done by
winning world's championships. Few men
have given as salutary a corrective to the
too-prevalent idea that the first-class per-
former in any branch of sport must consider
sport the most significant thing in life.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor . . 14,500 tons, March 8
$ Ceramic • . 18,500 ~ March 15
*Ulysses . . 14,500 „ April 23
t Euripides . . 15,000 ~ May 3
•First class only. tFirst and third class.
1 Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.)
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone i 81522.
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait. Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20.
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
. Missing; Friends.
JOHN CHARLES McKNIGHT (some-
J times known as Charles Lear), formerly
of Dunedin, New Zealand, is requested to
communicate , . with ■ IRWIN & IRWIN,
Solicitors, Dunedin.
Quick Relief f
For rashes, eczema
and all forms of
itching, burning,
disfiguring skin irri-
tations. Bathe with
Cnticnra Soap
and hot water, dry,
and anoint with Cuticura
Ointment. Relief comes at
once and healing soon follows.
Cuticura Preparations are
essential to every household.
Soap Ib. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co*
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura
OINTMENT
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
Sydney, trying to keep its face dry with
a palm-leaf fan, whispers faintingly that it
will be up and doing for the opening of the
Bridge. But, with the exception of the ball
planned by the Ludmayor Walder and his
lady, no big function other than charity
dances is listed for the evening of the cere-
mony (Saturday, March 19). But by day
there are to be junketings on all the beaches,
and for the opening itself the Harbor will
bristle with historical pageants, and there
will be processions of school children, aider-
men, mayors and members of Parliament.
The most ambitious floats to represent every
stage in our evolution are being designed,
though as yet no one has thought out one
to represent our floating loan.
Which recalls one of the jests of Charles
Lawrence, conductor of the community-
singers. He had been describing the arrival
of the great floating dock in Maoriland,
after being towed by two Dutch tugs all the
way from the north of England. “After Mr.
Lang’s shilling-in-the-pound unemployment
tax,” he said, “it is the greatest dock in the
Southern Hemisphere.”
The “week” of festivities is to run from
March 19 to April 2, the concluding day
of the A.J.C. carnival at Randwick.
Nearly 700 old boys of The King’s School,
from every corner of the State and from
parts beyond even the Commonwealth, were
at the centenary dinner in the Blaxland
Galleries; and when the Governor read the
King’s message in reply to the one of loyalty
sent by the assemblage, the cheers nearly
blew the waitresses out on to the roof. The
headmaster, the Rev. E. M. Baker, said the
grace, and after that sat back looking happy,
for he has already seen some of the good
fruits of his husbandry among the last decade
of King’s boys. Archgaiters Wright and Dr.
Prescott, president of the Headmasters’
Association, brought other Roman collars to
the gathering; and Professor John Peden,
Ileury Braddon, Chief Justice Street, Kelso
King and Albert Gould added their notes to
the hymn of congratulation.
But Saturday afternoon was the beaded
bubble on the celebrations. Well towards
2000 old boys turned up at The King’s and
walked about its ways, with attendant
womenfolk and friends. They revisited old
classrooms and tuckshops, and chuckled with
delight when, on the freestone of the older
school buildings, or on some familiar form
or desk, they found the initials they had
carved so intently—my word, yes! nearly
30, might be 40, years ago!
In cricket and tennis, rowing and swim-
ming the old boys played valiantly against
the school, and the present boys, elastic of
muscle and with lungs like bellows, gener-
ally had the best of it. The turf on the
headmaster’s lawn was commended, the
school chapel was displayed with pride; and
occasionally if a not-so-old boy who had been
sparking in every cylinder suddenly grew
solemn, perhaps he met at one of the turnings
some well-loved shade, not smart in the
grey and red of the school, but lean and
brown and in faded khaki, as when they had
met for the last time on Gallipoli or in
Flanders.
But some of the old boys’ associations with
the school go back far into the happy days
before a world war was thought of. When
Queen Victoria was a young woman, F. C.
Cox was enrolled at the school. Though still
living near Parramatta, he wasn’t able to be
present on Saturday; but his grandson was.
Another of the Victox-ian era was Mr. Cork-
hill, now 85, who was a King’s boy in 1864.
The generations of the ’seventies and ’eighties
were represented by the Brittens, of Ryde.
Three generations of the medical Browns,
of Parramatta, paid their respects during the
afternoon; S. G. Boydell, a descendant of
Bishop Broughton, who founded the school,
and famous sculler Fred Moore, and a son of
Archdeacon Gunther, and Waddys, Dangars,
Bodys and Blaxlands were other notable
names of the afternoon.
And in England at The King’s School, Can-
terbury, a group of old boys of The King’s,
Parramatta, gathered to celebrate the cen-
tenary. There were two Waddys, a Bligli. a
Dangar and a Nobbs, as well as C. M.
Mathew, J. W. Thornton and A. F. Wilson.
Give this city a chance to laugh, and it
seizes on it. Saturday night the vestibule
of the Savoy was a seething mass of humans
trying to get seats for Doris Fitton’s show
“The Middle Watch.” But every seat except
in the rows X, Y, Z had been booked, so
latecomers had a poor chance; and the young
Independents waning their hands as they
saw good money turned away. However,
the play will run for eight or nine Satur-
days—longer if Sydney is hungry for a
laugh. Harry Tighe, the Independents’ old
friend, just back from London, where he
had been filling some acting engagements,
was in the audience.
After eight years’ absence, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly and daughter Beatrice are back in
Sydney; and the family is settled in the
O. E. Friends’ house at Darling Point.
Mrs. Gaynor, who was the guest of the
Women Writers last week, is one of the
city’s most popular penwomen, and every-
body was sorry when some months ago she
had to throw down the pen and take things
easy up Leeton way. She must have got
a lot of vitamines and calories and things
out of the district’s fruit; for she turned up
looking radiant. She goes to London, where
many of her relations, including the two
novelist Waugh brothers, reside. Other
guests at the lunch were Mrs. Allan Hay
and her daughter. They come from Pieter-
maritzburg, in S’Africa. A former genera-
tion remembers Mrs. Gaynor as Mary Mill-
ward, who acted as ingenue with Robert
Brough.
The Macquarie Club has been, as it were,
wandering in the wilderness, seeking a home
where it could really settle down. Finally
its temporary abode in O’Connell-street was
vacated, and what had been the old Univer-
sity Club in Castlereagh-street now becomes
its home. The Macquarie, like its mother
the Queen’s, is purely a social club. No
member thinks she should mount a dais to
uplift her fellows. Inside its walls you eat,
drink, are merry or sad, but you are never
preached at. It harbors neither celestial nor
political urgers; it’s a place where you can
be a woman and needn’t bother to be a
feminist. It has a coffee-room where cock-
tails and liqueurs can be sipped, and a com-
mittee of very nice women.
When the Imperial Grand Opera has its
opening night, and you hear the splendid
surge of sound
that comes
from the
bassos in the
chorus, you’ll
owe the sub-
ject of this
picture some
of your
applause. She
is Agnes Cas-
pers, coach
and accom-
panist of the
59 sta 1 w art
bassos finally
chosen for the
season. Some-
thing of the
tragedy and
drama of real
life should
sweep ‘out from
these men to
their audi-
enecs, no matter how well fed; for the
rehearsals have been cast in a room at
Blackfriars or at the Blind Institute. Their
Blackfriars address is between two of Ham-
mond’s Hotels, and in that street the struggle
of decent poverty goes on night and. day.
Miss Caspers on Sundays is the organist at
St, Patrick’s on Church Hill, where brother
Will is conductor. Her sister is Ella, whose
satin-smooth contralto is known throughout
Australia.
The rooms in the Macquarie are all high-
ceilinged in the old-fashioned way, and
in almost every one of them is a fireplace.
In many cases the mantelpiece that jutted
out too far has been cut to a narrow ledge,
just wide enough to hold a vase. This gives
a straight, prim line, very Jane Austenish,
especially when an oval mirror hangs above.
In the lounges primrose greens and yellows
and jacaranda-blues upholster many of the
deep chairs. A tall grandfather clock, some
mellow mahogany pieces and a leather screen
that suggests Cordova help to make an old-
home atmosphere. The carpet in the bridge-
rcom deserves a word to itself. It was
imported for Woollahra House, and no one
knowing its rich colors, and acquainted with
the fact that it takes 14 men to lift it, would
guess that it is so aged that the wools used
in its weaving have not been manufactured
for many years. There: is dressing-room
accommodation on every floor; the bedrooms
are furnished with old mahogany dressing-
tables and four-poster beds; and the dining-
room, presided over by portraits of Governor
and Mrs. Macquarie, is all mahogany and
rosewood and yellow brocade curtains.
Melbourne barrister Clayton Davis came
to Sydney last week for his bride, who is
Hilary Blyth, of Yaleowinna, Cooma. But
Hilary is no stranger to the southern capi-
tal, for her two aunts are the widely-known
Mrs. Winter-Irving and Mrs. Purves-Smith.
The ’groom has Sydney connections, Dr.
Harvey Sutton’s wife being his sister. Pink
tiger-lilies, and cool grey marocains were
the highlights of the bride’s raiment. A
small party drank the usual toasts in the
Queen’s Club, just across the way from St.
James’s, where Padre Micklem had put in
his work. The bride’s mother, Mrs. Blytli, is
president of the Cooma branch of the C.W.A.
Artist Marjorie Smyth is back from pne
glorious month on the Barrier Reef. She
went with Pollock’s expedition, and has re-
turned with a sheaf of sketches of pandanus-
palm and pisonia-tree. She also brought as
far as Warwick a pet baby-turtle. The
little chap was snared just as his mother had
hatched him into the world, and before he
had even been in the sea. Marjorie, who
exhibits with the Society of Artists, is nearly
as interested in science as in painting, but
what the connection between color and cock-
roaches is she is still wondering; anyhow,
the Reef cockroaches chewed all the paint
off her water-colors. When not painting
Marjorie lectures the young idea at one of
the city’s schools.
If Dickens, who put the case for the
poor clerk so heartbrealdngly, were alive
to-day, what a picture his sensitive pen
would draw
of the unem-
ployed typist!
There is such
an army of
them these
days, many of
them women
past their
first youth
who have put
years of hard
work into the
efficient run-
ning of their
department of
some business
firm, only to
find with hor-
rified amaze-
ment that the
firm they
thou ght so
secure was
wre eked, or
nearly wrecked, on the rocks of depression.
It is to help such cases that the allevia-
tion fund of the Typists’ Association has
been formed, and to such their rooms in
Stanton House are open. Here a cup of
tea can always be had free of charge, and
in desperate cases free meals will be pro-
vided by an arrangement with a near-by
cafe. The place is also a friendly employ-
ment bureau, and here the out-of-work girl
can also fight the loss-of-speed bugbear,
for typewriter firms have furnished the
rooms with machines. Mrs. Catherine Lind-
say, a well-known Supreme Court reporter,
pictured here by The Bulletin photo-
grapher, is president of the association
which is doing such good work.
Two flapp_ers were comparing the advan-
tages of their “finishing” schools. The dis-
cussion raged for 10 minutes, then Blonde
capitulated to Brunette. “Oh, mother,” she
cried as her parent came into the room, “I’d
just love to be an old girl of Brunette’s
school. We’ve had five brides from our
school; but they've had six weddings —and
two divorces /”
Dulcie Deamer has burst into the play-
writing game. Of course, at Miss Joseph’s
studio in Pitt-street and at the old Play-
box in Oxford-street Dulcie could always
be depended on for a diverting burlesque
or topical skit. But now she aims at some-
thing more serious, and last week, at the
studio, her one-acter, “Eve Eats the Apple,”
held an audience of writers and artists
through an amazing first scene. Here an
apple-tree with one glowing apple rose above
a palisade of greeny fronds. These were
several feet high, and above them Eve’s
bare shoulders alone were visible. Dulcie
herself as the serpent wore a fearsome
hooded headpiece moulded to head and chin,
leaving her face free. To simulate the
snake’s body her arms were swathed to
her sides in grass-green bindings. The
whole of this first scene was practically
one speech by Dulcie, brilliant and poetic.
But the second scene fell away from the
heights of the first, and showed a present-
day fifth-rate residential in Darlinghurst.
This was a vision of the future, after Eve
apparently bad nibbled the apple a few thou-
sand times. Eve appears again as a little
maid, Adam as a bad sailorman, and the
serpent as Madame Lilith, a fortune-teller.
When disaster falls on this world, Lilith
is seen at the girl’s shoulder tempting her
to take another taste of life. Then a switch-
back to the Garden shows Eve plucking
the apple and calling on Adam to share
it with her. The play is brimming over
with vitality, and C. L. Cunnington, who
doubled the parts of producer and Adam,
artfully created the Garden out of a few
yards of green crgpe paper and a composi-
tion apple.
This Letter made one of a crowded Her
Majesty’s, and saw Madge Elliott and Cyril
Ritchard taken back to Sydney’s heart.
“Blue Roses” is their show, and from the
moment the golden-haired girl entered in her
cream-cloth costume this writer’s words
about the smartness of the satin blouse with
the wide revers were justified. The revers
were scarlet and worn in company with a
cream-cloth coat, high as to collar and cava-
lier as to cape. With these went a tinj’
cream hat of the beret order stabbed through
with a scarlet quill. Chiffons, pink as the
heart of a Malmaison rose, were worn twice
by the leading lady. The first was backless,
diamente-patterued, and fitted like a skin to
a point just above the knees, then gaining ful-
ness from accordion-pleated godets. Innum-
erable narrow diamond bracelets lit up the
arms. The Rose du Barry chiffon frock in
the last act had a garland of pink camellias
falling from the shoulder .to the waist-line
and thence gripping the hips. A wreath of
the pink camellias bound Madge’s golden
locks. Her luscious coat of silver and cream
brocade stirred the imagination with its
highwayman’s cape and its straight collar
that came chin-high, where it was tied tightly
with a pink bow.
The 16 girls in the first chorus displayed
the shoulder-blades of innocence from back-
less white net frocks, voluminous as to skirt,
their very fitted waistlines outlined with
pleated frills. Later they changed to chiffon
frocks that ran from deepest to palest apri-
cot.. These were moulded on princess lines,
their tight elbow sleeves finishing in trail-
ing pleated elbow frills. In contrast to these
six girls in frocks that were lettuce-green
above the waist and fir-tree green below were
among the guests star-scattered on the grass.
Here’s a little story from Rabaul. The
hospitals have been full, and consequently
very short of linen. One of the lads was
sent in with a septic leg, and the sheets
on his bed had been borrowed from another
ward. He coughed coyly, and said to the
nurse, when she came to dress his wound,
“Matron expects too much of me, Nurse,”
and displayed the corner of the sheet, which
was marked “Maternity.”
Queensland’s mail:—
During Stanthorpe show week there was a ball in
the Parish Hall. The Governor and Lady goodwill
were present, being received by the Rev. and Mrs.
J. P. Parker and Mrs. E. H. Pike. Lady Goodwin
was in black mariette; Mrs. Parker chose black silk
crgpe with a lame coat; Mrs. E. H. Pike was in
black ninon; Mrs. L. B. Elwell wore a cape' of
silver over her black georgette; and Mrs. E. Costello
(Thane) chose lemon mariette.
Mrs. P. L. Howden, of Martin-street, New
Farm, now in her 95th year, is a fund of remi-
niscences of old days in Australia. She came to
Victoria over 70 years ago and was at Royal Park
to see Burke and Wills depart on their historic
expedition.
Margaret Newton, the 17-year-old daughter, of
Colonel and Mrs. Frank Newton, after being brought
down from Stanthorpe to Brisbane by aeroplane
died of meningitis after influenza. She was a
cousin of Mary Macgregor, the actress; her father
held a commission in the Coldstream Guards during
the Great War.
William Hunter-Brown was married to Jocelyn
May Rickard in Holy Trinity, Valley. The bride
was given away by her father; she wore white
bridal satin and Chantilly, her veil arranged Madonna
fashion. Doris Rickard ’maided in mauve cr§pe de
Chine and Beryl Rickard was trainbearer in lemon
organdie. Many-hued roses decked the Jenolan for the
feast. The ’moon rose on the Northern Rivers
of 'N.S.W.
At St, John’s Cathedral, with Archbishop Sharp
officiating, Ralph Hughes and Gladys Bishop were
made one. The bride was in white organdie on
satin, a cut tulle veil and Chantilly lace cap.
Winifred Gray ’maided in daffodil organdie and
yellow hat. The reception was in the lounge at
the Canberra and the ’moon is at Yamba.
The Holy Rosary Church, Windsor, saw the
nuptials of John Leslie Wallson and Marie. Kathleen
Dunlea. The high altar was covered with white
flowers and the Children of Mary made a guard of
honor. The bride was in ivory bridal satin, lace
mittens and a Brussels-lace veil. Miss B. Dunlea,
her sister, and Dorrie Wall ’maided in amber siatin
with period hats en suite. The reception was at the
bride’s home.
Maiy, daughter of Mrs. John Bergin, St. Lucia,
announces her engagement to Robert E. Philp, of
Indooroopilly.
Betty Carter, second daughter of our French
Consul, Major H. R. Carter, is to marry Colin
Gray, only son of the W. A. Grays, Bowral (N.S.W ),
A bridge party was staged for them by Rene
Cummins at her home, Kangaroo Point.
Olive Ogilvie, of Charleville, is shortly to be
married to Cyril Charlton. Another bride-elect- is
Ann Blundell, who is to wed. John Paget on March
29 ; the pair will subsequently leave by the Strath-
aird for England, where they will make their home.
Ann Blundell’s step-sister, Mrs. Harry Mills, has long
been resident in England; as Hilma Ohman she
was one of Brisbane’s beauties.


SYDNEY BRIDGE CELEBRATIONS • MARCH 1932.
Ah
ts»®?
pi'ii®
a*
us@
at
ISS;
m
i
l?
4i' /
111
3 H>Z
r^\\
£7 1 #
VISIT SYDNEY
for this occasion
and stay at the
Wentworth
GREATLY REDUCED TARIFF
The Wentworth, Sydney’s most up-to-date hotel,
announces new greatly-reduced tariffs for rooms only.
Single room 10/6 per day
Double room 20/- per day
With private bath extra.
Guests are advised to make early reservations.
The
Wentworth
AUSTRALIA’S HOTEL DE-LUXE
Ghurch JKill ■ Sydney
’Phone 8W1361
All arrangements personally supervised by Mrs. MacftireatS
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
Saturday was not a day for the wearing
of new clothes, and dressing at Caulfield
was mixed. It was mostly sombre,
black predominating. A few optimists'
wore flowered chiffon and kept an anxious
eye on the stormy sky. Lud Mayor
Smith was there with Mrs. Dyer, whose
dark brown frock had touches of red,
white and green about the bodice. Her felt
hat was on Dick Whittington lines. , Iris
Darbyshire, of the “As Husbands Go” co.,
was in berry-red suit and hat. In the com-
mittee ladies’ box Sandra Shackell caught
the eye in a black basqued gown with white
embroidery marking the vest. H'er bowler
hat had an upstanding white wing in front.
With her was Margaret Finlay, also smart
in black and white. Mrs. H. S. K. Ward
wore a new style in tailored suits —bla
taffeta with eyelet embroidery in a' pie
green. Her hat combined the two tones. Airs.
I. H. Moss was in a coat frock of navy and
white flecked summer tweed and her hat
blended. Mrs. N. Henderson Smith favored
the magpie contrast. Navy blue silk with a
coin spot of white and a navy hat were
chosen by Mrs. Rupert Downes. Others in
the throng were Mr. aud Mrs. J. L. Mackay,
of London, and Mrs. Richard Linton, who
escorted another recent arrival from Eng-
land, Mrs. Humphrey Clegg.
The staging of a new play in Melbourne
is becoming a rare occasion, and there was
a regular block of motor-cars around the
King’s Theatre, where every seat was booked
on Saturday night for the premiere of “The
Barretts of Wimpole-street.” Society
streamed in in its very smartest frocks. Late-
comers were innumerable, and the banging
of seats drowned much of the opening dia-
logue. The whole three acts and five scenes
of the play are set in the green-papered and
-draped bed-sittingroom of Elizabeth Brown-
ing. The early-Victorian furnishings include
a wealth of what our grandparents called
“whatnots” and a vast quantity of bric-a-
brac. The ladies glide about like automa-
tons inside their hooped crinolines. Mar-
garet Rawlings, dark and slim, with a mel-
low voice that brings back memories of
Emelie Polini, made a great impression as
the heroine, Elizabeth Barrett. Whether
stretched upon her sofa in a flowing frock
of cosmos mauve or eloping in slate-blue silk
with dolman and poke bonnet of cerise, she
is a charmingly graceful and arresting figure.
Mary Macgregor, as Henrietta, the youngest
of the girls of the large Barrett family, has
the most striking array of clothes. bhe
sports in one scene a crinolined gown of
hollyhock-pink tarlatan, and in another a
frock that suggests a daffodil —all yellow
frills with alternate bands of leaf-green.
Mary Cobb, pretty and fair, making her first
appearance in Melbourne as Bella Hedley,
a cousin, looks a picture in a green poke
bonnet and ermine-edged dolman of bois-
de-rose hue, worn over distended green
flounces. In the first-night audience were
the Jimmy Dyers, C. J. Aherns, Mrs. W. G.
Layton and Mrs. J. J. Rouse, of Sydney,
Mrs. H. Y. McKay and her daughter, Mrs.
Cleve Kidd; Mrs. Hammond Clegg ; Mr. and
Mrs. F. Bishop and Mrs. Dale, and the
Rene Vandefkelens.
Evelyn, second daughter of the late Neville
Howse, Y.C., and of the Howse lady, of
South Yarra, exchanged vows with Dudley,
only son of the late Stuart Brunton and
of Mrs. Brunton, of the same suburb, at
All Saints’,
St. Kilda.
The bride’s
long - trained
gown of white
crepe rpmaiiie
was modelled
on one-piece
lines with
soutache braid-
ling and faggot-
ing on the
bodice. Her
tulle veil was
an c h ored to
narrow bands
of satin. Filmy
white lace
gowns fash-
ioned with long
sleeves a n d
very slightly
cut about the
neckline were
worn by the
bridesmaids, Eril Howse, Gladys Brunton,
Jess Robertson, Betty Wilkinson (just en-
gaged to Major Edric H'enty) and Natalie
Wood. They carried large bouquets and wore
floral wreaths. The John Spencer Bruntons
and the Walter Bruntons came from Sydney
for the wedding of their nephew. The
Howse lady, who wore black crepe de Chine
with an inlet of ivory lace the same tint
as the roses she held, bad the support of
her son Charles in receiving the guests at
No. 9 after the ceremony. Mrs. Stuart
Brunton, whose raiment was grey lace
topped bv a large black hat, stood in the
offing. The newly-weds are speeding by
tlie Narkunda for a honeymoon abroad. A
Dickenson-Monteath camera made this pic-
ture of the bride.
Another smart wedding on the same day
was that of Lettie, elder daughter of the
Harold G. Carters, of Malvern, and Georges,
younger son of Mons. and Madame Serge
Hamparsum, of Nice, France. The bride,
with her two ’maids, made entrance to St.
John’s Toorak at eventide, wearing creamy
satin over which fell a veil of old duchess
lace. She carried a sheaf of lilies. Her
attendants sported frocks of apricot-pink
chiffon and russet-velvet leaves bound their
hair. After-rejoicings were staged at the
Grosvenor.
Another miss who made a change of of™®
last week was Kathleen, youngest ™ u g™er
of the James Roches, of St. Ivilda, who was
married at St. Pat.’s Cathedral to William
Sloane, whose folk reside in England,
trio of ’maids in frocks all frills of pa e-
green organdie with large hats or a™ o
hue, and carrying bouquets of pink.flowers,
attended the bride, who girdled her Chantry
lace and crepe alntonza wfith orange olid •
Her veil was tulle. A dinner and dance a
No. 9 followed the ceremony.
At Mrs. W. Mortill’s farewell party to
Mrs. Thorold Harper on Friday afternoon
Madame Nina Kamper performed classic
dances upon the latvn of Tay Creggan. In
dancer stepped to the music of Gertrude
Healy’s fiddle, with the beat tapped on a gong
by Mrs. Mortill. For a Burmese dance Madame
Kampar’s bodice was bright pink allied to
a brocaded skirt of apricot hue with a dash
of yellow at the waist and a wired gold lace
basque. A small blue fan was a distinctive
touch. Her nautch-girl dress was a blending
of various hues with heaps of barbaric jewel-
lery, and bells dangling about her bare ankles.
Prior to the dancing tea was served indoors.
Mrs. Harper, who was handed a posy ol
water-lilies and tree lily-of-the-valley, wore
a gown of figured silk in tones of green, and
her hat blended. Green was also worn by
the hostess, whose frilled organdie frock was
patterned with tiny brown roses. Lace mit-
tens and a pale-green hat were items. Among
the guests were the Best lady and nor twin
...'ughters, Roberta and Helene, Mrs. o.
Hirper, Mrs. George Bell, Mrs. J. I-
Tw -'ddle and Shirley, and Mrs. P. Shier.
This is Freda Thompson, a South Yarra
flier, who is wearing the smile of the victor,
having just
beaten H. V.
Hughes for
first place in
the Peninsula
Aerial Derby.
Last year she
won the Oaks,
an event for
“Moths,” in the
Aero Club’s
pageant. She
has been flying
for about two
years, her long-
est solo flight
being to Adel-
aide. She is
the holder of
a passenger
license. When
not investi-
gating air-
pockets an d
clouds Miss
Thompson comes to earth and plays a good
round of golf at Kingston Heath, and is also
addicted to tennis. The Girl Guides also
claim her as a friend.
On Thursday night Lud Mayor Smith was
host at a civic dinner to the aldermen and
councillors and their wives and daughters.
He had the assistance of his sister, Mrs.
Dyer. The meal was served on small tables
in the council chamber, the mayoral chair
and dais being hidden by a drop-scene repre-
senting a tall hedge and a gateway, beyond
which was an avenue of trees. A stage, with
footlights peeping from a border of foliage
plants and begonias, had been erected, and
only the life-size portraits of bygone mayors
remained to suggest the usual atmosphere of
the room. Salmon-pink gladioli in low cry-
stal bowls were centred on the round tables,
each cluster decked with a large bow of
green and silver ribbon. Ribbons of the
same hues were tied to shoulder sprays of
carnations and roses, and girdled green boxes
of chocolates were provided for the womenfolk.
Mrs. Dyer’s gown was modelled from a beau-
tifully-embossed Indian shawl of ivory silk,
deeply fringed and moulded to the figure,
and she carried a very large ostrich-feather
fan of vellum tint. She wore her French
order and a brooch presented to her father,
the late Dr. L. L. Smith, 50 years ago by
the citizens of Melbourne.
After the meal the x-oom was cleared and
arranged as a concert hall. A string quart-
ette comprising Elise Steele, Lorna Stirling,
Emerald Hills and Ilelga Brennecke played
portions of a Mozart sonata, and provided
an accompaniment of melodies by Beethoven,
Grieg and Dvorak for the dancing of some-
of Jennie Brenan’s pupils. Carrie Haase,
with a long string of amber beads trailing
upon a green velvet princess robe, recited.
Wilde’s “The Rose and the Nightingale”
and other verses. Supper was spread on
the balcony, enclosed for the occasion in
gay red and white draperies. Among guests
who came to the concert, after dinner, were
the Rutledge lady, knight Robert Best’s wife,
in black velvet; Mrs. R. G. Casey, sen.,
accompanied by Linda Byroti Moore; the
Archie Curries; Mrs. Fred Thiel, whose;
cornflower-blue gown was scattered with a
beaded pattern in a deeper hue; Mrs. Her-
bert Hewlett; Senator and Mrs. R. D.
Elliott; the E. 11. Wrefords, she in black
chiffon with an embellishment of crystal
fringe; and Mrs. Harry Emmerton, in silver
brocade.
Of the civic guests the Morell lady was
stylishly turned out in deep blue lace; Mrs.
Felix Lloyd achieved a Japanese effect in
black chiffon patterned in jade blue and
gold-traced flowers; and Mrs. Ferguson’s
black tulle and satin robe had a removable
cape of tulle banded at the throat with jet
flowers. Mrs. R. J. Hardy brought her
daughters Joyce and Beryl; and accom-
panying Alderman Stapley and Mrs. Stapley
was their niece, Joyce Sims, of Sydney, in
cherry-red taffeta.
Members of the Liedertafel assembled at
the Athenaeum Art Gallery to welcome Mr.
and Mrs. James Dyer. From 1885 to about
1928 Mr. Dyer was associated with the
society, beginning as one of the choir and
winding-up by being president for nine years
or so. Prior to leaving for Europe he made
the Liedertafel a gift of £5OO as a sheet-
anchor to windward. It hasn’t been called
on yet. and president E. L. Wilson was able
to inform the guests of honor that the
reserve fund had been increased to £BOO in the
interim. The Liedertafel choir sang part
songs, and tenor A. M. Whitelaw, basso
Harold Murphy, singers Carrie Cairnduff
and Emily Hooke and pianist John Simons
contributed to the musical programme.
The Morell lady, wearing black crepe
almonza with light green and white pipings
and black millinery, presided at a luncheon
at the Quamby Club in honor of Mrs. J. J.
Rouse, of Sydney, who is staying at Men-
zies’ for a week or two. The visitor was in
black, relieved with ecru lace, and a black
and white plume dangled from her straw hat.
Sheila Morell, in pink silk frock and shady
hat, helped her mother to entertain the
guests, who were gathered about a table,
gay with pink carnations and delphiniums.
The Frankston Auxiliary of the Minton
Boys’ Home put on a dance at the Fernery
to gather in funds for the institution. The
ferns and foliage plants which deck the
rendezvous were supplemented by flowers
from neighboring gardens. 'The president of
the auxiliary, Mrs. J. R. Dunstan, was there
in cobwebby draperies of coral pink lace,
and the hon. sec., Mrs. W. Gilbert, had
touches of lacquer red on a gown of deep
blue chiffon. Mrs. J. Mann, vice-president,
was in black, and Marea Lucas, who was
ticket sec., looked smart in black chiffon
with a dash of emerald green.
Mayor Ellis, of Prahran, donned his
robes and chains on Friday afternoon and
opened the Alexandra-drive extension, which
winds by the side of the Yarra. To Mrs. Ellis
was allotted the task of clipping the ribbon
that barred the path. When Sidney Myer
gave £lO,OOO at Christmas-time to provide
work for the unemployed, this work, part
of a boulevard planned to extend as far as
Heidelberg, was chosen.
A bridge party in the Myer tearoom, to
help St. Vincent de Paul’s Orphanage in
South Melbourne, brought a muster of 300
players. Mrs. A. K. Wallace was convenor
of the organising committee and Mr. and
Mrs. James Foran, Sylvia Fisher and others,
with the orphanage orchestra, provided
music.
There was a farewell billy-boiling at the
Y.W.C.A. on Thursday, when two Japanese
ladies shared in the good-byes. Madame
Takahashi, who is to take up her residence
in New York, where her husband has a posi-
tion, and Madame Izuka, who is to spend
a holiday in her own land, were honored.
Both ladies have helped to form a Japanese
club in connection with the Y.W.C.A,
South Australia chimes in:—
St. Peter’s Cathedral was crowded for the marriage
of Randall Robert Parker, of Bombay, and Mary
Dorothea, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Evan
Kyffin Thomas. The bride, one of Adelaide’s prettiest
girls, looked charming in white Chantilly lace veil-
ing pale pink. The tulle bridal veil formed the
train, worn with a Juliet cap of silver lace studded
with pearls. The bridesmaids, Morna Dobbie, Kath-
leen Cudmore and Margaret Smeaton, wore pale pink
ninon, trimmed with frills of the same, and large
picture hats of pale pink lace. The bride’s! brother
* Rendel was best man; her mother wore maize
flqflkered chiffon and a wide-brimmed navy
straw hat. The wedded pair left by motor to
catch the express for Melbourne at Mount Lofty,
while the guests made a bee-line for the Memorial
Drive to finish up with tennis.
There was another smart wedding at St. Peter’s
College, the happy couple being Hugh, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Robinson, of Werocata, Bala-
klava, and Jean, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. D.
Davidson. The reception was held at the Hotel
Richmond. -
The Tattersall’s Club meeting at Victoria Park
was well attended. The chairman (Mr. P. J. Flanna-
gan), entertained at afternoon-tea, assisted by his
daughter, who wore a modish black crepe-de-Chine
frock and a close-fitting white hat. The Mayor and
Mayoress were present.
The. wedding of Dr. Creagh Smeaton, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Bronte Smeaton, to Morna Dobbie, well
known as Miss Nora Stewart’s star dancing pupil,
was celebrated at St. Andrews Church, Walkerville.
It was a quiet, affair, with the reception afterwards
at the adjacent home of the bride’s parents, but
Walkerville turned out en> masse and packed the
church to overflowing.
Westralia’s way:—
Social doings are lately of the beach and boating
variety and, despite the petrol war, there seems
to be nearly as much traffic on the roads as usual.
Jack and Jill must have -their swims and Pop his
golf, if they do it on a mixture of petrol at 3s. 6d.
per gallon plus tractor juice and kerosene.
Jean Barker, known to her pals as Babe, was
quietly married to Pierre de Chazel one morning
recently. The couple have started housekeeping at
Devonshire Flats. As Pierre is a marvellous cook,
the young bride will not need to wrinkle her fore-
head thinking out new dishes.
The John Daniel couple are over here for the
summer wool sales. Mrs. Daniel is better known
as Kip Holmes of the Titian tresses.
There was a dance this week at Lake Karrinyup.
A skyful of stars shed sufficient light to touch the
lake with silver and a cool breeze rustled in the
treetops. Dancing was on the verandah and choice
blooms decked the reception-rooms, where bridge and
supper was served. Mildred McDougall wore misty
georgettes; Mrs. Gilbert Elliott chose black and
gold; a diminutive patterning was sprinkled upon
Nell Manford’s eau-de-nil ninon; Mrs. Elton Wilson’s
green frock was embossed with velvet bands; Dorothy
Kirby’s burgundy had a bustle inspiration in taffetas;
Dorothy Bird j was in green; Joan Good chose a
frock of ruby-red; green chenille georgettes found
favor with Jo Rigg; Mollie Arundel also showed her
preference for green; Helen Cramond wore beige
laces; Dorothy Stenberg was a pretty lass in tones
of russet.
Sir Francis and Lady Wylie have been visiting
this State. For 28 years he was secretary to the
Rhodes trustees and warden of Rhodes House, Oxford,
and he has had personal acquaintance with all the
Rhodes scholars. He is confident that the hopes
of Cecil Rhodes will be realised, and that every year
more of his beneficiaries will be found in high
positions. Upon the portal of Rhodes House reserved
for the names of scholars who have carved a niche
for themselves in history there is thus far only one
name —that of Kingsley Fairbridge, founder of our
Fairbridge Farm School.
The Speck's spasm :
At the King’s Cup meeting the Elwick lawns
and flower gardens looked delightfully fresh.
Frocking was extraordinarily varied, but the
cake goes to the trim tailor-made for races
every time, and the chic little hat slightly
tilted is far more becoming to every face over 20
than the “picture” style. The Isaacs lady wore a
marocain frock in deep monkshood blue with a small
floral pattern, wide-brimmed hat to match. Mrs.
Thos. Lyons was in black and white; the Lieut.-
Gov.’s lady wore black, with small ermine-tipped
collar; Mrs. Darcy Addison displayed black and
white flowered chiffons; Mrs. Bradley wore a broad-
tail wrap coat. The vice-regal party included naval
Commander and Mrs. Symonds, the Thos. Lyonses
and Mrs. Darcy Addison.. The Lyonses entertained
an enormous crush at tea.
About 50 matrons, with Mrs. Howard Buchanan
and Mrs. Arndell Lewis doing the secretarial work,
ran a ball at the Continental. The rooms were
decorated with agapanthus in brass bowls, the lounge
with leopard skins and Persian rugs, and the supper-
tables with mauve and pink sweet-peas and carna-
tions. The Isaacs lady was in pearl grey satin, and
stayed on at the show after the Gov.-Gen. had
departed. Twenty-one debs, made their official bows.
The Arndell Lewises ran one of the most delightful
private dances of the season at their own home,
Abernant House. The big living-room was cleared
and decorated in a color scheme of fuchsia, pink
and blue, with niassive garlands running in ropes
above the windows. Mrs. Lewis wore a phlox-
pink satin frock. The guests were chiefly young
people, among them several of the debs, who were
presented later at the Matrons’ Ball, and several
mainland girls, among them Valerie Purves (Melb.)
and Ailsa Cullen (Sydney).
Mrs. C. S. Page, Mrs. R. Clive and Mrs. J.
Ingles engineered a debs.’ dance at Lindfield, Hole-
brook-place, when seven buds came into blossom.
G'arys Page, Lilia Clive, Meg Ingles, M. Pringle;
Joan Reid, Brenda Oldmeadow and Joan Cotton
made up the list. Gladioli and gypsophila were used
in the decorative scheme, and Marcus Trappe’s
orchestra made attractive music.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY '
Bulletin Buiidinqs "j
252 Georqe Street, j
S Y D N II Y Ifl
'VfV ‘<s>
See announcement page 13.
HOUSEHOLD PACES
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.’
lady’s LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
•i Etc. Etc. Etc. it
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 62
TURN WEST WHERE
TRADE IS BEST!
Sell in a Prosperous Market.
HERE IS A WONDERFUL RECORD.
Western Australia’s improving gold
production (last year it passed the half-
million-ounce mark for the first time
for seven or eight years) calls to mind
the fact that the West’s peak gold year
was away back in 1903, when 2,064,801
fine ounces were gouged out of the
earth, worth £8,770,729. Since gold was
first found in this State in 1881 by the
late Phil Saunders, the yield has been
worth over £164,800,000, not including
exchange premium obtained by pro-
ducers, and dividends paid have exceeded
£28,800,000.
Advertise in the largest newspaper in
the Golden West, the
PERTH
Wimed
TRIED AND PROVED TO BE A
WONDERFUL MEDIUM FOR DIS-
CERNING ADVERTISERS.
w
Every 500
Miles of Travel
The ALEMITE System
of Lubrication certainly
solves the problem of fric-
tion. Keep your bearings
clean eliminate sand,
grit and dirt—and you pos-
itively eliminate friction.
Friction isthe cause of hard
riding, squeaking cars.
The ALEMITE Pressure Lubrication Gun, illustrated
on the right, forces ALEMITE Lubricant, a pure solid-
ified oil—under tremendous pressure—right into the
bearings. All dirt, sand and grit is forced out—
leaving the bearings clean and perfectly lubricated.
Don’t forget to watch your lubrication as carefully as you watch
your petrol supply—every 500 miles—it is really mbre important,
ALEMITE CORPORATION < < Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . . . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E- A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty) Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED .... 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-3
1
ip
n
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland f s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
ofhe Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market , from :
®he Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ‘Phone F 3908.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
‘‘iTHk WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
I’KICE .. .. .. •• 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
The Old Dope.
FRANCIS OSBORN'S
GRIPPING SKETCH OF AN INVITATION TO A
“JOLLO” —AND WHAT HAPPENED AFTERWARDS.
PASSING Great Hall, Holloway, was held
up by young Bobby Datchett, whose
vivid face was full of life, despite the
strain of the exams.
“I say, Leu,” he began, “there’s a jollo
to-night—Finals all over and nothing to
worry about”
Holloway laughed. “No,” he said. “I’m as
tired as a pig, and I’m going, home, 1
promised the Mater I’d be home to dinner,
and she’s expecting me.”
“Oh, but, Len” —Bobby Datchett’s eyes
seemed to narrow and concentrate —“this is
really high-class as a scoot. Opium i and
fan-tan and glorious girls—quite special.’
Holloway laughed again. Bobby suffered
from too much life, “too much love of living. ’
He had probably done two excellent papers
to-day—plunged into them all out and been
quite impressive. His degree with Honors
was in his pocket for a certainty. But he
had forgotten it; his emotional mind was
tearing hell-for-leather after girls and opium
arid some near-gambling with slant-eyed
roughies—a letting-down of mental. training.
“No,” he repeated. “My personality is not
heroic like yours. I’m still up to my neck
in- the Spanish Gate, and Positivism, with
a touch of Erasmus to give it a kick. I’ve
got quite enough to sleep off as it is. Besides,
there isn’t such a place in Sydney.”.
“Isn’t there?” Datchett was indignant.
“Tom Bridlington has been there a dozen
times—he’s taking us to-night—and he
says it’s the real thing. Marble and charii-
pagne and a look-out for the police all the
time —and the gorgeous girls!” Once more
he narrowed and concentrated vividly, his
glowing eyes searching Holloway’s face.
“Come on, Len. You won’t be expected home
to-night; none of us will. And you want
a let-up after all this swotting. Tom particu-
larly wants you to come.”
“Tom’s been' filling you up. You’ll find
it’s a dirty, niffy back-room in Campbell-
street with a couple of battered old rough-
house Janes and a fake police-signal when
there’s two quid on the table —lights out
and a general scramble ; into the lane, glad
to get out of it and the two quid left behind.
I’d rather go home and have a hot bath and
a decent meal,”
“Look, Len—you’re .wrong. There’s much
more than meets the eye in Sydney after
dark.: You’ve been reading the papers patting
the police on the back. Tom isn’t a baby,
and I tell,you he knows the place.. It’s
everything—quiet and sumptuous; music arid
all that; a ‘pipe’ if you want one, or. fan-
tan if you don’t. And the girls he says are
simply splendid. God knows when, we shall
have a chance of a jollo with the old gang
again. Come on, Len:”. •
The sudden emptiness of fatigue seemed
to swoop down upon Holloway. He had
taken Finals seriously, and. had been all-out
day and night. for J months. Now it was
over, arid there .was 1 nothing left but this
cold emptiness at. the back of his head and
Bobby’s bright,, pleading, ( voicc—there was
nothing to strive after- now. . The mind was
well enough, but as a steady diet for the
average sensual man— —1 The Mater mightn’t
really be expecting him; in any cq.se she’d
understand if he didn’t turn up—Finals
night came only once in a lifetime. Ancl
Tom might have found something ; special;
he wasn’t a baby, as Bobby had said. And
it would be a relief to down tools and let
everything ride for. to-night. Even the idea
was-making him feel less jaded and-purpose-
less. And he’d always had a feeling that
he’d like to try a “pipe”; there was a
Nirvana —the untried full surrender of all
those famous unhappy men half appealed
to him. Had they been so unhappy V And
what was it that was strong enough to
chain them so. fast, ' so irrevocably V
“Righto, Bobby,” he said. “I’ll borne.”
'That had been the beginning. And now,
here lie was, wherever it might be. ~ '
It wasn’t worth while to open his eyes
yet. It was just the ■ blank feeling, the
nothingness of the first minutes of the
morning. He didn’t know whether he was
comfortable or uncomfortable — that much
good laudanum had done for him —and he
didn’t care. If he did open his eyes it
would only be to find himself on some bench
in the Domain, or in the lock-up, or in a
doss-house in Surry Hills. It was better
to keep them shut while the nothingness
was upon him, even if to do so meant also
to remember.
Remembering had ceased, to be a pain;
now it was only a dull desolation. Bobby’s
jollo and the first “pipe”—how long ago
that was! His degree and the years that
followed in old Swinstead’s office, learning
to fit the practice of law to its theory.
Then a rising tide of business, culminating
in a steady pressure, with an occasional
pipe to carry on —only to carry on. He
remembered the full surrender, once the
nausea was conquered. The increasing
frequency of the pipe....
It didn’t matter. Why he should wander
back into those years this morning he didn’t
know; but it didn’t matter, if he could lie
here for a little with his eyes closed against
the facing of the day. Not for long; the
day would have to be faced, the dreary,
shuffling day, haunted and purposeless; but
now there was a sort of a darkness, soft and
empty, which he would keep as long as he
could.
All days were the same. Enduring the
harsh street after his name was struck off
the rolls he had known that all days would
be the same. That was when the pipe
had given way to straight laudanum. You
could get it. You could always get a thing
if you wanted it badly enough. You might
not be able to get fo-od in these later years;
but then you didn’t want it. That was
the difference. But that ecstatic floating
away into the ephemeral, that piling of rosy
dream on dream in a fullness of hope beyond
belief —somehow you got that for the wounds
and despairs of other moments. You crept
so near to lovely Death, and yet were strong
and calm.
A thought stirred in his mind—a bitter
longing, pitiless and far above scruples or
danger. . .
He was an old dope. Shadowy and
furtive, full of shames and craven fancies,
dodging this street for no reason and
that for no reason, crossing the road
here and not there, not looking at this
shop and shuffling haunted past that
oue—all for no reason. Bobby Datcliett
had gone out and vanished —beachcombing
somewhere; “too much love of living.
Tom Bridlington was all right-on the
outside; but Tom had money. You could
do a lot if you had money. He wouldn't
mind betting But it didn’t matter He
must open his eyes soon to the walls of'the
cell or the doss-house partitions or the
leaves of a Moreton Bay fig-tree. Then lie
must fly at the day’s throat until its purpose,
the reason of its being, was achieved.
Tom Bridlington had been a handsome
fellow. He wasn’t now. Nothing was hand-
some, of course, after the years had finished
with you. Bobby Datcliett had looked like
an athletic poet long ago; he would never
forget Bobby’s face when he had persuaded
him to go to that fatal jollo. It had been
'fatal. Other men in the gang had risen
steadily to the quietude of middle-age in
honor and serenity. It had meant nothing to
them; but to an old dope lying here afraid
to open his weary eyes it had been full of
fate. He must open his eyes....
. But -not yet, not yet. There would be
nothing to see that wasn’t bitter and
shameful, nothing that didn’t cry aloud its
desolation. Life was' waste; that was a
constant. You borrowed and begged and
shuffled, lied and thieved if you must; you
watched all the towers of your hopes fall
in ruins. You felt your health slip away
while you were still young. When you were
40 you were old. Very old and tired.
Darkness was the only good thing—dark-
ness and laudanum.
The bleak, avid thought, strong and clear
in its primal craving, stirred again. He
must be about —firm and definite to bend
the day to liis will. There was one small
thing—which was the greatest of all things
—to be done. He could get it ; he always
got it. What did it matter if he had to
paddle in the gutter for an hour or two to
get it? Or wade through seas of blood?
Or shatter the world?
But the weariness, the hopeless, useless
light of day—must he face that?
A frail sigh escaped the old dope. It
was upon him at last —he must do it.
He opened his eyes.
More ghosts. The shadows of half-
remembered things that so often crowded
about him now. Who was the'pale, hand-
some young man in the other bed? His
jaded eyes were full of terror and despair—
vaguely the old dope seemed to know him.
Was it Tom? Or Bobby? No. They were old
and battered now, like himself.
It didn’t matter, of course. But it was
curious how the young man stared at him.
Where could he have got to last night? Not
that that mattered, either. But there was
a something...
The old dope sat up in bed, his head
reeling. The young man sat up, staring
terror-stricken at him. The old dope put
his hand up to his aching forehead. The
young man promptly did so, too, his haunted
eyes still searching the old dope’s face. ..
Suddenly it all dropped into place. Len
Holloway slipped out of bed and stood, in
everlasting gratitude, in the morning sun-
shine. He closed the mirrored door of the
big wardrobe ,so that it no longer faced the
bed, and whistled as he put on his bathrobe.
He was fired, but not half so tired as he
would have been if he hadn’t dodged Bobby
Datchett’s alleged jollo with the opium and
the girls last night. Poor Bobby! What sort
of an ungodly head had he got this morning?
The Enchanted Tower.
You cannot come at the Enchanted Tower;
Time, like a dog, shrinks backward from
the wood
That stands about it, dark as a black flower;
Time dare not enter even if it could.
Yet where the dusky stairs wind left and
right
Strikes sweet the silver and the golden
chime
Of this tail clock and that, and a pure
white
Bird comes out o’ their doors and cries,
“The time
"Is past and future, for the hour is now! - ’
Oh, sweetly die the gold and silver sounds,
And joy sweeps a cool hand across my brow;
Apart from this, soft silence! Nought
resounds
Where green-black velvet forest-palls .hang
still
Around the Tower, and on the onyx moat—
So broad so broad!—the weeping willows
spill
Their trancbd tresses, and the lote-flowers
float
As calm as sleep, as fair as death and life.
But, oh, the tapestries that cloak each wall
Within the Tower! A dim, delicious strife
Of thousand beauties here holds festival.
One walks from room to room; one’s foot-
steps hushed
As though on deep, on holy forest moss;
And here it seems heart’s blood (or sun-
set’s) gushed,
Leaving a sheen of rubies, and across
The living light of diamonds tells of tears
(Tears shed by Nile, Tiber or by streams
Long dry in valleys of the Moon). Ah.
spears
Of some brave, desperate future show blue
gleams
Where sapphires quiver in the pattern there;
The lovely hangings gemmed with life and
death •
Show forth 1 my stories for me, dumb and
, fair,
And seem-to tremble as with vital breath.
World without end —and all the world is
here!
Soft-glowing pictures of the heavens and
hells,
Love’s ’broidered trails by meadow and by
mere,
Love’s children playing with Queen Venus’
shells.
Centaurs and unicorns and snakes with
wings,
The Erl-King’s daughter on her pearl-
white stag,
And all the angels and the creeping things,
And lions and lilies blazoned on one flag.
Such are the tapestries within the Tower,
The Enchanted Tower whose dark wood
daunts time.
One scans past, future, like a painted flower
And listens to the tall clocks’ timeless
chime.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


Pi
Distributors for the
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Lti,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
“Not a bite
in a bottle
... McCall unis
for me every
timer
(DTallurn’s
Scots dlhisky
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
feuLletia
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 3 months from •
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia-—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
*
b
la°
£
0
0°
e
r 0
S 6
6®
<1
A*
.•••' ..•••
*»
■ • lAii »“ <*
< •'


e
Every Evening...
there is no better aid to
relaxation than a glass of
that true lager—Tooth’s
K B—rich in the vitamins
that come from pure malt
and freshly picked hops.
Try a bottle to-night.
JK/5
TOOTH’S
T
LAGER
