

WINTER 1932
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
SPIRIT AND OIL
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
The Bullein
Great Holiday Number Bridge Souvenir
Vol. 53.—N0. 2719.
Wednesday, March 23, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms axid particulars post
free, on application to
DYMGCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
siorg Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON 1
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Vy Address
S.B. 232
ILYSAGHT?
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries*
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron*
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
a*
(/
TPv-
X
Your Children!
Guard their tender skins by
using Cnticura Soap reg-
ularly from the day of birth.
Assist with the Ointment, if
required, to soothe and heal
è
any irritation^.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too. tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject'.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE ACE,"
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
•supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street-
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
l asmania s N ational Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference aqd the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
I 9 O’Conpell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD-,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Atldress: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Buildinc
Elizabeth Street. 6 '
TlajCu/ie S'isc<esn&e ,
Sicxlcj, Stajee,
* Sc\&&n ?urCe4, /*a&es fcr
.. £&e SfyC&d. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES €»°
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane I elegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and 'up-to-the-minute"
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser*
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
YV .C. 2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney: or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Literature of Hate
Rose Macaulay has explained that writers
don t hate more ardently than anyone else.
*heir hates ‘‘resound so janglingly down
the ages, even unto this present,” because
they are more articulate. It accounts, in
part, for the thousands of poems and novels
that have been inspired by malice, but only
in part. Pope didn’t write the “Duneiad”
because “the numbers came,” but because
he was Pope, a C3 subject with a grievance
against the world—a nark. The same with
Swift, Byron and other afflicted geniuses.
As a rule, the good literary haters are neu-
rotics or women or feminine men—Whistler,
Alfred Douglas, Elinor Mordaunt, Ethel
Mannin. Now and again, however, a mas-
culine voice is heard. In present-day Eng-
land it usually belongs to someone who left
his illusions in Flanders, and is angry with
war profiteers, home-service generals, and
other back-area heroes, and the boy-flappers
and flapper-boys of the post-war era. This
kind of hater attacks classes rather than
individuals, and he has a superiority com-
plex.
The Riviera
In The Coast oj Illusion (The Bodley
Head; 7s. 6d.), Douglas Goldring lays him
self out to flay Juan-les-Pins (St. Pons-les
Pins in the book), and the people who fre
quent it. His dislikes, in order of loathing
seem to be (1) crooks who batten oi
Riviera tourists, (2) aged American women
who keep young men, (3) British civilian
who use military titles, (4) British aristo
crats like the Duke of Hareogate (“bank-
rupt, of course, and as fraudulent as they
make ’em”), (5) British writers like Peta
and his friend Lionel. His heroine is Olivia
Vayne, who, at 36, has just divorced her
husband, but hasn’t got over her desire foi
him. Olivia is an acute study. She is
a sensualist who keeps her head in nearlj
all circumstances. She has no objection
to cohabiting with Freddie de Carterett:
gigolo, in fact she yields to him on the first
night they meet in London; but she draws
the line at loving him. Her father, Crabbe
Hi&ginbottom, K.C. (another shrewdly ob-
served character), rents a villa at St. Juan-
les-Pins, and she resumes her affair with
Freddie there. Freddie is one of the war’s
moral casualties—a jewel thief. He falls in
love with Olivia, genuinely in love; which
is what he would do, as she represents
economic security a.s well as physical desira-
bility, and he is in desperate straits. She
likes him in her wanton way, but is pre-
paring to ditch him long before the inevit-
able end comes. His friends, acquaintances
and enemies are all amusingly done.
Lionel Welfare, the brilliant young novelist,
and his young friend Petal Robins arrive at
a swimming party “in a light-blue two-seater,
looking, as Nowell expressed it, ‘just like
a couple of tarts.’ ” They want to bathe-
Lionel contrived a pretty blush, as with a glance
in all the light directions he said, “Surely we
could? A chaste bandana ‘t A scarf or two arranged
a la Gandhi ?”
“Come on you boys,” said Joan. “I’ll rig you
up. Come to my room!”
Chirping and twittering with girl-boyish glee
they trotted after Joan.
A dozen other minor characters stand out
as clearly in this fierce indictment of a
cross-section of English society; but the
writer remains good-tempered, for the good
reason that the people he objects to have
never been in a position to humiliate him.
He can talk down to them.
Aulobiography
Beverley Nichols purveys a very different
brand oi hate in Evensong (Cape: The
Roycroft Library; 8s.), One passes from
the general to the particular, so to speak
Nearly all his resentments' are concen-
trated on one character, and they are so
intense that they unbalance his story. One
gets thoroughly sick of the only two people
who possess the breath of life—the vulgar
old harridan Irelya (Melba), and her
refaned and beautiful companion and foil
Pauline, who i§, of course, Mr. Nichols.
He must have got to work on this frag-
ment of his life-story the minute the breath
was out of his formidable ex-employer’s
body (she would have given him a sound
cuffing, no doubt, if it had appeared in her
lifetime) ; and he has certainly made good
use of the opportunities he got to observe
her ways while in her service. Irelya is
Melba, as she was in certain moods during
her closing years, to the life. He has
registered all her phrases and mannerisms;
you can catch the cadences of her speaking-
voice, even the Australian accent she some-
times put on when she was feeling back-
blockish and hearty.
Anyone who met
Mr. Nichols when
he was in Aus-
tralia will recog-
n i s e him, too.
Pauline is a fine
self-portrait. Melba was cruelly inconsider-
ate; she used to make him work when he
was yearning to be off enjoying himself with
iriends of his own generation. You can
hardly blame him for feeling vindictive to
this day when he thinks about it. There
was the case of the youth who asked
him to lunch at the Ritz. He was all of a
flutter— dying to go—and, oh joy! Melba
had arranged to lunch with the Winder-
meres.
Then the next day the blow fell—it was the first
of many—the First Putting Off.
For as they started out for their morning drive
at eleven o’clock she said:
I m not lunching with the Windenneres after
all. So you can have lunch with me at home.”
The agony of it! Yet at this stage he was
what her enemies called sneeringly “still
the loyal little ally.” H‘e almost cried
with mortification when the Petals and
Lionels were facetious about her Mimi:—
Hbit, darling, she dies all over the bed.”
les—of consumption.”
“She fades away, with dozens of high C’s and
coughs* and coughs and eour/hs .”
I. can ’t rn ’ ss it.. M.y dear, suppose she
really dies”....
“Oh, that would be too much to hope for.”
“1 think you’re too hitter. I love the old war
horse.”
“Could she ever sing ?”
“1 can’t imagine. I must look up Greene’s
English History,.' ”
“She must have had Some voice.”
“She lost it coming through the Rye.”
There is a poignant scene—by far the
most moving in the book; ‘one that
must have happened, it could never
have been imagined—when Melba mis-
lays her spectacles. “My spectacles,”
she snaps rudely. He is “far beyond
the trembling stage,” poor lad: “They are
on the table by your side.” She puts out
her hand so violently that the spectacles
fall to the floor, and she looks in his direc-
tion mutely commanding him to pick them
up. “No. No. No!” he mutters to him-
self, white, icily aloof. “I will not-not-not
pick-pick-pick up-up-up the-the-the spec
tacles-spectacles-specfacfes/” And he doesn't
Oh, he had British pluck all right, when put
to the test! But the final break is at hand.
He gives her his notice:—
“I shall- go ... I shall go arid I shall never
come back! lou ve tried to possess me. .. .to take
every bit of me. ...for your own use... .because
you re old, and done for.... done for! And you
want me. .. .you want me because I’m young.”
Their association was hopeless from the
beginning. He thought she ought to have
been proud to keep him for his loveliness;
she was a business woman who expected
value for cash. He has other resentments,
of course: against some of his fellow-
employees, against the old, against Melba’s
Edwardian friends—but they are expressed
in stereotyped figures of fun—who are dull,
one and all. His Melba is really good-
though only in the sense that a Carai’i
d Ache drawing of Queen Victoria was good.
He has put in nothing but the warts. His
Beverley Nichols is even better. He lias-
left the warts out of that study ; yet they
appear. In fact, an alternative title to
Evensong might well have been, “Portrait
of a Wart.”
RED PAGE.
The Australian Writer in England
1 can more than confirm Alan- D. Mickle’s
devastating experience of the prejudice of
English literary circles against Australian
writers (R.P. 9/3/’32). It is rooted in envy,
fear and an acute sense of inferiority. The’
Englishman is aware of the immense skill,
brilliance, versatility and intellectual
courage of Australia’s novelists, poets anc
artists, and he fears us. Mr. Mickle arrivec
m London with a mere suitcase of manu-
sciipts. It took three trucks to carry my
literary outpourings up from Tilbury. In
the innocence of my heart I believed I
should be received, if not with enthusiasm
at least on my merits, if only on the
strength of the exploits of the Anzacs. I
believed that Lord Beaverbrook’s slogan,
“The Empire First,” would extend to our
highest product, the intellect. I went
further than Mr. Mickle. I advertised
myself not merely as an Australian but as
a South Australian. What happened? Mr.
G. B. Shaw wrote me in secret cypher:
“I have read l-!,- ton of your MSS., and am
now engaged on the remaining 19cwt. You
scintillate with wit, blaze with genius and
reverberate with mental profundities. I
am deeply sorry that this opinion must be
kept a deep secret between us. It was an
act of reckless bravado for me even to
write you this letter. Burn it.” Two days
later Mr, Chesterton arrived at my flat
incognito with the sides of his cab bursting.
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.** —The Conscience of Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
Greater Values Than Ever are Definitely Apparent
1
YOUR
EASTER SUIT
69/6
Ready for Service
Men’s Sac Suits. Ready for service.
High-grade worsted suitings in latest
shades and designs. Fashionably tailored
in all sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 69/6
Sports Trousers
1016
Men’s Flannel Sports Trousers. Big
variety of colors, plain or striped. Side,
hip and fob pockets. Belt loops, hip
straps. Butts in side. pleats.
Anthony Horderns’ Price ........ 10/6
Better qualities ...... 12/6 and 13/6
Riding Breeches
25/-
Men’s Riding Breeches. Strong whipcord.
Serviceable fawn. Best make. Laced at
knee. Strapped.
Anthony Horderns’ Price ...... 25/-
Dept.,—Ground Floor, George Street.
We pay carriage.
COUNTRY VISITORS
are cordially invited to
join the
COUNTRY CLUB—
Second Floor, George St.
DRESSING GOWNS
Priced remarkably low
m
a
mm
m.
m
#
A
w*
mxm:
1
rnggmmmrnm
Combining Quality and Style
Anthony Horderns’ have on show the largest selection of Men’s Dressing Gowns south of the line.
We feature herewith a few from the assortment that must be of interest to men who need the comfort
of a gown in the home. . , . .
These gowns are Anthony Horderns’ own make, and tailored in accordance with our usual standard or
excellence.
Available in All Wool Tweed: 29 9
Men’s Tweed Dressing Gowns, piped with silk cord, wool girdle and tassel to match gown,
soft and warm in dressy overcheck designs of Fawn or Grey effects.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each
32*6
The gowns are
. 29/6 and 32/6
Super Quality Tweed
451-
Men's Tweed Dressing Gowns. Super quality all-
wool in figured designs. Piped with silk cord, wool
girdle and tassel to match the gown. A smart
selection of Fawn colorings.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 45/-
Colorful Art Silk
37 '6, 451-
Men’s Art-silk Dressing Gowns, with self girdle to
match. A wide range of new colorful weaves in
figured and scroll effect.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 37/6 and 45/-
QUALITY-VALUES IN MERCERY
&
m
y\\\
Special Offer 10,6
Men’s Tobralco Golf Shirts. A durable
wearing material. These shirts have
double cuffs, V-cased front and soft de-
tached collar to match. New stripe
effects on colored grounds. Sizes, 14in.
to 1 9in. neck.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 10/6
Autumn PYJAMA Rang
Anthony Horderns’ are featur-
ing a special display of Men’s
Pyjamas. Made in our own
workrooms .... cut in full and
generous proportions. Made
from reliable-wearing British
fabrics.
Durable-quality Flannelette.
Prices 6/6, 9/6
Striped “Hordura” Flannel-
ette. Price, suit .... 10/6
Striped Poplin de Luxe.
Prices . . 11/6, 15/6, 19/G
Striped British Twill.
Price, suit 12/6
In Shadow-striped Mercerised
Cloth. Price 14/6
Striped Cepea Serge. Splen-
did wearing 11/6
Striped Tobralco. Reliable
quality. Price 15/6
Striped Mijo Taffeta. Keenly
priced at 25/-
Striped Rayon Art-silk
Pyjamas. Price 22/6
Striped Crimea Flannel.
Warm weight . . 22/6, 27/6
Striped Viyella. Superior
quality. Price 39/6
Striped All-wool Doctor
Flannel. Price 42/6
Striped Ceyl o n Flannel.
Medium weight . . 22/6, 27/6
Department—Ground Floor, George Street, We pay carriage.
Anthony Hordern and Sons Limited,
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
Sydney
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


<
A
KSf
*s
8»/5te;V
sk'O'diz
**sss&
Nl
m
I*' «a*
wm
■ •'
.'■ vw
•I;'. • «•;
:
I - ,”#
EJ*
6>S*J
Is
&
r
Sfc
15
JJJTJTYI
&
»
mm
m
m
m
m
a
K»i*S
1
tvJTj™'*** $ fiOtnZ* » Y _
WAt Oisrai£RiES *£? «8
&s•&»*>£ «gt
»%
MILLIONS of gallons—practically 100% of
1 all matured Australian Whisky—is held
in bond by Federal Distilleries and Associated
Companies; this is the reason why there can
be no “just as good” substitute for the
“Nation’s favourite”—Old Court. In addi-
tion lo these tremendous reserves, huge
stocks are being distilled annually.
Cl
m
THE
world's
PUREST
3iWOAVa
S.NOULVN
: 3HI ■


/
m
Hi ■ •
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING.
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Inquiries are invited concerning the best form
of Income Insurance and for Annuities.
Assurance Funds exceed . . . . £1,000,000
Ample Reserves against all contingencies.
Bonuses declared annually.
Branch Offices: MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
J. A. HENDERSON, General Manager.
“I could not,” he whispered, “deny myself
the privilege of shaking by the hand the
greatest genius that has flashed across our
firmament since Shakspeare. Aussie for
ever! But please say nothing about it.”
The late Mr. Arnold Bennett met me on a
’bus and hastily thrust into my hand an
unsigned and typewritten note which
modesty compels me to keep private. It
to warn my fellow-Australians were not
my only motive in writing these remarks,
I could quote from hundreds of similar
communications from the greatest figures
in the English world of letters.
I was unsophisticated enough to be
puzzled at this curious reception of my
undoubtedly unexampled genius. Inquiry
subsequently gave me the key to the mys-
tery. There is in England a vast and
unprincipled Cheka, whose sole aim is to
maintain the pinchbeck supremacy of Eng-
lish letters against the threat of Australian
competition. Every reviewer and publisher’s
reader in London has secret instructions,
written in blood, warning them that even
qualified praise of Australian writers will
incur the sinister hostility of the Cheka.
They may eulogise Polish, Russian, French,
German, Chinese and American writers, but
never Australian. Even worse things are
whispered about the Cheka. I need only
point to the case of Mr. Blatherskite, a
Queensland author of amazing talent. He
arrived in London shortly after I did, but
before I could get to him to warn him he
had vanished utterly. How is it that his
disappearance was not even mentioned in
the English papers?
“I feel,” says Mr. Mickle, “that had I
left Australia years ago and concealed the
fact that I was an Australian, I may have
won a place in the English literary world,
and as an English writer may have, after
over 20 years’ work, been better known in
my own country.” Mr. Mickle is lucky,
if he only knew it. He might, instead,
have been thrown down the chute com-
municating with the mud of the Thames
which the Cheka maintains near the Tower
Bridge, solely for the disposal of Australian
writers. I was only saved from it myself by
the interposition of a Scotland Yard detec-
tive. Personally, lam glad to say that
contemplation of my own unarguable merits
has prevented me from succumbing to the
destructive vice of self-pity. My favorite
poem is Bracken’s “Not Understood,” and
my sole consolation the thought that mil-
lions yet unborn will some day recognise
my genius.
F.S.
Let Us Catch Up!
What Australian writers and painters
need is an informed criticism which will
evaluate their work according to European
standards. Chatter about an Australian
literature or an Australian art is mis-
chievous if it results in grotesquely false
assessments of literary reputations. That
error goes right to our literary origins, and
Kendall is put foward as almost a major
poet, although his best work was mediocre
Swinburne. This myopia comes from our
remoteness. We always seem to be about
20 years behind the times, and an artist
cannot afford to spend half his life catch-
ing up.
Why we should spend much of our time
in 1932 wrangling about artistic problems
which Europe solved years ago always
astonishes a visitor. In music, for example,
many Australians are still “discovering”
Debussy; and a concert audience imagines
that it is hearing modem music when
Rimsky-Korsakoff is played. In art we are
still floundering about in the ’eighties and
’nineties, and most of the critics frown
upon anything more than a tentative
approach to Impressionism. The Melbourne
“Herald” actually permitted a controversy
in its columns recently about Post-Impres-
sionism. Most of the contributors hoped
that Australia would not be taken in, as
Europe had been, by this new-fangled rub-
bish. It is pathetic that so much indigna-
tion should be fired off at a problem which
was settled 20 years ago. The work of
Cezanne, Van Gogh and Gauguin is now
being shown in the great exhibition of
French art at Burlington House, London.
These artists have been absorbed into the
tradition.
And our writers. How many of them are
remotely interested in world-thought, and
in its social and philosophical tendencies,
which have had a profound influence on
contemporaiy poetry? How many can
speak intelligently about James Joyce and
T. S. Eliot? The poets are still writing
pretty pieces about flowers and trees, sterile
decorative stuff, and there is an occasional
recrudescence of the puffed-up gusto of the
exhausted Lindsay cult, of regrettable
memory. At no point does our poetry make
contact with European influences.
All great literature springs as much from
what is called the literature of direction as
from the tradition. It is in the literature of
direction, the laboratory work of his con-
temporaries, that the poet should be deeply
interested. The literature of direction
to-day is moving away from Romanticism.
That is why much modem poetry is incom-
prehensible to the reader of poetry who
has borrowed his standards from nineteenth-
century romanticism. But it is the job of
the writer to note these tendencies at
T. S. Eliot published “The Waste' Land”
in 1922. Even such a romantic as W. B.
Yeats admitted recently that Eliot’s poetry
indicates more clearly than any other poet’s
the direction in which poetry will develop,
in ideology and technique. Yet, a decade
after its publication, it is almost unknown
in Australia, even among critics and poets.
EDGAR HOLT.
A Satchel of Books
Save the Mothers, by Sylvia Pankhurst
(Ivuopf; 65.). A plea for a universal free
maternity service by the pioneer of mater-
nity clinics in the East End of London.
She claims, amongst other horrors, that the
lives of 3000 mothers and 20,000 infants are
needlessly sacrificed every year in England
and Wales, and that the proportion is bigger
in nearly every other civilised country.
C. B. Poulteney has been writing stories
about his dog in London “Daily Sketch” for a
long time, and now Methuen and Co. have
published them at 3s. 6d. as My Dog Pompcy.
People who have never brought up a small
and useless but loving and energetic dog
will call the conversations between Pompey
and his master rubbish; but animal-lovers
will take a different view. The interest is
enhanced by the author’s drawings, which
reveal his friend as a cross between a Sealy-
ham and a Scottie.
Noel Coward has persuaded Heinemann
(or vice versa) to publish Cavalcade, the
spectacular Drury-lane play, at ss. Rather
a pity. It doesn’t read well, and the “Daily
Mail” and “Topical Press” photographs help
to vulgarise it. One service the little book
does perform: it satisfies the lay reader of
Coward’s oft-applauded “sense of the
theatre.” The dialogue is scanty, and often
trivial, and some of the lyrics are almost
incredibly bad, but the whole has combined
to make one of the greatest theatrical suc-
cesses in the history of the West End stage.
The young man certainly knows bis job.
Desirable Young Men, by Patrick Carle-
ton (Philip Allan; 7s. 6d.). Jasper Brown-
lowe was in his second term at Cambridge
when he met. Fulk Pearson, and went to
Heidelberg with him for the long vacation.
A disastrous experience for poor Jasper, as
Fulk —handsome, brilliant, dissolute —be-
came his evil genius. Fulk hated the whole
world at this time: —
He remembered with entire approval how Cali-
gula had chastised the mob with clubs, how the
Romanoffs had used machine-guns and Mohammedan
Cossacks to keep their orthodox subjects/ at a decent
distance.
An interesting study in youthful egomania
which ends with the cure of the sufferer in
sight.
Joseph McCabe has written, and the
Bodley Head has published (at 65.), a
memoir of Edward Clodd, who was a shining
light of the Rationalist Association when he
died in 1930 at the age of 91. He came into
the world as a Baptist, and gravitated to
benevolent Paganism via the Congregational
faith. He seems to have had a capacity for
distinguished friendship and plenty of humor,
which only failed him when a friend let him
down by turning to religion. The news that
Hardy had taken to church-going in his old
age was a bitter blow, and so was Gilbert
Murray’s revelation that William Archer
had died a spiritualist. H. G. Wells knew
Clodd and put him into Boon as Edwin
Dodd —“one of those Middle Victorians who
go about with a preoccupied earking air, as
though, after having been at great cost and
pains to banish God from the universe, they
were resolved not to permit Him back on
any terms whatever.”
And a Little Verse
SONG AFTER RAIN.
All yesterday the rain made at my heart
A dance macabre that was memory,
Of dying years dream-cursed with bitter art
And barren minstrelsy.
The skies dripped desolation yesterday.
Love seemed a wanton’s lie, each friend
a f oe;
x\nd I remembered I was going grey,
With naught but scars to show.
This morning, as the wind, blithe-hearted,
■drives
White sharp-edged clouds across a blaze
of blue,
Something as near content as life contrives
Makes even love seem true.
I think I dreamed in some forgotten dream
These gay red roofs, this brilliance of
flowers—
Ah! surely still the distance guards a gleam
Of fading fairy towers!
Surely I see where fierce lights fade and
blur
Down to the quiet dimness of day’s end,
The ghost of Youth, like Love, grown
wearier,
Returning as a friend.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
WILL YOU MEET ME?
Will you meet me in the meadow,
For there it’s wide and wise,
The hills go reaching up all round,
Most friendly with the skies;
And every little breeze comes by
With' breath of wild flowers laden.
Oh! meet me in the meadow, if you’d- meet
a happy maiden.
No?
Oh!
Meet me where the pines chant
An ave on the hill;
It’s very, very solemn there,
The earth as sleep is still;
And if there’s any would disturb
You and me.
They’d never dare
Hurt us there,
’Neath a pine-tree
No?
Oh!
Then is it by the brook that you will wait.
Where that little babbling voice cries elate?
It will sing my song for me,
“Joy, joy, in running free
To fulfilment, to my sea.”
No?
Oh!
Then wait for me where thistles grow.
N.S.W.
A. M. K.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Taxpert: Too indefinite; say twice as much
. , ttt T nr n t,„i.
, ‘ ~ . , . . ~ ,
do you propose-that half of us should cut our
throats?... .George T.: Thanks ; glad to see y0u....
Moret V.: Gum-trees, coo-ees, kookaburras, dingoes,
mopokes—it should sound like Australia; but a
catalogue can’t make an atmosphere... .John H.:
Promise in “Answer”; other very crude in work-
manship... .P.M.D.: Pleasant rhyming; and that’s
often laziness Kathleen: Shy off those worn
phrases; they are the beginner’s tools Josh P. P.:
You’ll have to find better foundations for your
verse than these.... Kathleen H.: “After so-and-so’s
so-and-so.” That’s a poor passport to any editor,
Lay down your own lines.... Esther R.: Too vague,
....M.J.W.: Blew straight into the basket....
D. 8.: Galloped well over the last bit but finished
among the also-rans... .G.H.S.: Ends in the air....
H.M.L.8.: Maupassant’s “The Necklace” with a
modem setting and twist... .L.W.: Slapstick stuff.
. ...G.M.8.: No bones for the dog-.. L.J.S.: Wildly
written.. . .L.D.0.; Off our beat J.M.: Daily-
paper material.... 1.T.: Unhappy attempt to mix
fiction and politics T.S.: “This is pale and
mild.” You’re a truthful child .. M.R.: Ending is
0bvi0u5....0.W.8.J.: Unpolished... .A.E.M.. Have
read many better April Fool yarns D.A.b.:
Handled rather amateurishly.. D.M.: “S.M.H.”
doubtless rejected it for the same reason as we
did—it wasn’t worth printing J.8.C.: Might pass
with a strong’er plot and more action... .P.0.M.G..
Punting-system yarn dreadfully old K.G.8.: Shows
promise... .H.H.P.: Too long and not sufficient
sparkle in it... .M.D.S.: Not keen on yams written
around idiots F.G.8.: Trick ending didn’t im-
prove it... .A.R.: Very few have the gift of making
a story interesting in that form—you’re not one of
them. .. .J.M.: The weeks weakest crime stoiy... .
D.L.M.M.: Like its predecessors, it has quality, but
is too bookish; for example, “A rascal clerk, and
yet we’ll fill liis scrip”.... Neil H.: Wed like it
better if it wasn’t quite so declamatory... .L.G.G.:
Too much like a nature lesson set to rhyme. While
you tick off each item in the scene you’ll never be
a poet... .H.R.M.: Such a long way off!... .H.Y.:
A marathon in rhyming. Do you get up early to do
it?... .A.F.T.: Our correspondent contended that
Witton’s book “Scapegoats of the Empire” did not
give the full story... .C.R.P.: You bring nothing
new to the theme but your inexperience... .M.A.T.:
Its doggerel all right...-Bullabong Jim. Can do
nothing with a lyric on the subject of ant-proof
pants... .E.J.: There’s some vigor in it, but you
don’t say anything fresh or distinctive... .Ariadne:
Pleasant frivolling, nothing more... .N. 8.: Our
opinion is that it is plain tosh D. J.R.: “The
Chanteymen” breaks no new ground N.J.T.: An
elaboration of an oft-written par V.A.T.: Weary
of that reformed rake. . ..C.S.G.: The dream trick
has been worn threadbare G.G.: It lias no plot.
A.M.: A trifle melodramatic J.S.W.: Try it
on a woman’s paper 1.H.: Point of story evaded
U s G.S.H.: “Failure”—exactly... .A.F.L.: Ending
doesn’t convince J.F.L.: Wordiness pulls it down.
M.K.: You might have explained why the
suitor spread such a lie R.J.J.A.: Still a bit
stiff... T.G.P.M.: Poker-player met his Waterloo
here 8.M.: Too thin E.D.: Poorly told
J-L.S.. l>on t caie for Maicia... .F.A\.. it hagged
to a drearj' end J.W.H.P.: Don’t agree with your
friends. It s rather poor prose cut into lengths
K 8 .. obvious b ut it has merit.... .Spindrift: Well,
we don>t know Per haps Adam thought he was paying
toQ much for that flg i ea f Moll P.: Let’s whisper
in youl . ear —terribly pretentious stuff.... Helen
j). ; No sparkle in your brew... . John H.: Not the
trace of a new idea in the lot.. .E. 5.8.: Life-like ; but
beaten too thin for our use... .George M.: Capital
idea in “Insurrection”; but you take too long to
get to the story and the dialogue is ponderous....
A.F.H.: All published pars, are paid for at press
rates Inver: Not quite... .Francis J. B.: They
both hung in the balance. You know, of course.
that your shocking fist is a handicap. The first
reading is spoiled by the necessity to grope and
the second can yield no glorious surprises Olive
F.: We d like to believe it; but don t... .Bellenve.
We mingle our tears with yours in the empty pot .
The good old days
(Oh dear, oh dear!)
Of counter-lunch
With a pint of beer.
Tobacco was cheap,
ghfrts aml pante°°’
And brand spank . new#
The good old days
(Oh dear, oh dear!)
of counter-lunch
With a pint of beer. |
. J.A.K.: Pleasant jig-jog rhyming-, without a
traCe of real emot i on j n it P.H.S.: Much obliged;
but ofl om . beat:... . J.W.P.: You’re a trier! Still
don >t care for it, though some other paper might.
m.B. : “All’s Well” didn’t strike us that way.
. _ .. A.S.: It would have to be a very unusual spree to
b e worth chronicling C.S.M.: Sincerely written, but
£ be isn’t strong enough... .J.E.: Trouble with
trick type of story is that the reader soon
guesges jf s a fake and turns to the finish for con-
firmation... . R;K.G.: -Something prompted him not
to commit the murder. Pity something didn’t
prompt vou not to wr j te the yarn... .L.V.: No
market bere for gangster stories E.M.: Tenth-
rate j OVe yarn T.K.: Finished it, but wouldn’t
jj ke re peat the painful experience... .C.G.L.:
\y recb s f o ry won’t do; the other gets a second read-
fng. ... J.T.W.: Incident didn’t warrant all that word
S pj n ning... .A.K.: Exceeds space limit,
.
AUTISTIC* (A V n TNARTTSTTCf
TO ARTISTIC f.V D INNRTL. TTO)
oukkespundejn is.
T.R.: You’re no cartoonist A. 8.: Fair....
J.F.N.: Three down-and-outs J.R.11.: No joke
accompanied drawing of barber shaving customer.
A.C.H.: Spend a year- or two with a good
teacher. .. .L.R.: Neglect to send address pardoned.
Not sending cheque. .. .C.E.W.: Ordinary pun and
hopeless drawing D.R.: Not suitable for repro-
duetion... .K.R.N.: Any corner that it would, fill
would be an odd comer G.H.: Give it best.'...
B.B.: Weak version of old malapropism D.L.8.:
Wretched M.R.C.: Stiff and untidy J.J.V.: As
wild as ever A.G.: Wobbly art F.C.: Gastro-
nomical item showing goat eating feminine lingerie
declined with loathing.


é
FAMOUS
PORT
‘ : f,x> : !
d
1
M
• r i
gsc
*
.1
■fill
M
I :
iWKkm
■
- *
i
■
■
11
■
1 H
•Till
111 l
■Hi
:
m
m
m
MS
■
I
Hi
w
mm
mm
fm■
■jr
<fcjs
Bfc
m
■
1
■
glglllil
illll
■
-m


The Bullein
53 2719.
March 23, 1932.
THE POLITICIAN WHO SAID HE DIDN’T HAVE A CURE FOR THE DEPRESSION.


The Bullein
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
IJox 2521 BB; -Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’ 1 : Id. for 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE UNEMPLOYED.
For nearly 40 years Australia talked about
Federation, held countless conferences, drew
up countless schemes, discovered countless
obstacles. Then some wise man, realising
that it was impossible to work out any plan
of Federation to which many objections
could not be taken, said the only way to
federate was to federate; ahct, mat great
truth being accepted, a convention was
summoned to fill in details.
So the Commonwealth was established.
Now history is repeating itself. It is over
two and a half years since this crisis smote
Australia. In those 30 weary months of
distress and demoralisation we have held
countless conferences to deal directly or
indirectly with the unemployed, countless
plans have been discussed—Niemeyer’s, the
Premiers’, Lang’s and many others—and
countless obstacles have been discovered.
Yet to-day the unemployed are as numer-
ous as ever, and Mr. Lyons and Mr. Scul-
lin agree that the outlook for the coming
winter is Worse than Australia has ever
faced. So there is to be another hurried
conference, this time of Premiers; and the
result will be exactly the same as that of
every other conference unless we realise
that the only way to employ men is to give
them a job.
It is now nearly two years since The
Bulletin first insisted on that fundamental
fact; and it tried to show then and many
times since that it was practicable to re-
employ 100,000 men within a few weeks.
It is still true that we cannot give these
men emplojunent without employing them;
and magnificent plans will not land us any-
where any more than the magnificent
plans of Federation landed the Federalists
anywhere. It is not 10 years since we
declared that we could absorb hundreds of
thousands of new citizens. And we did
absorb them; our records show, like those
of the U.S.A. and Canada, that some of
our periods of greatest prosperity have been
our periods also of heaviest immigration.
The simple explanation is that every immi-
grant who arrived was a potential customer
as well as a potential wealth-producer. The
only man who is a burden upon the com-
munity is the non-producer; the man who
produces as much wealth as he consumes
cannot be a burden. If he produces a little
more than he consumes he is a national
asset. The unemployed are a liability at
present only because they are not produc-
ing anything.
The first thing to do, then, is to start
them on production. The reply that there
is no market for their products is no reply
at all. > They are their own market, just
as the ’first settlers of, say, S. Australia
were their own market. The million or so
who are at present employed in Australia
are living by their own labor; no manna
falls from Heaven to aid them. The hun-
dred thousand extra can just as easily live
by their labor. Indeed, their task should
be easier; for the million are maintaining
not only themselves but the unemployed
as well. Every man put into a job makes
it easier to put another man into a job;
every man nut off a job makes it harder
for every other man to keep his job and
live.
But how can these new jobs be got?
Well, they will have to be made, in most
cases. The Bulletin hates talking about
itself; but it knows more about its own
affairs than anybody else’s; so it quotes
its own case. It wanted a new home; it
had outgrown its old one in ordinary times.
In these exceptional times the old one would
have done well enough; nevertheless, with
an eye to the future, it acquired a new one,
and for six months many tradesmen were
employed fitting the place for its new use.
With the improved facilities the establish-
ment could do more work. That work had
to be found. Among other things there
was a call for a handy book embodying the
most practically helpful things the “Land”
pages had printed. This has been pro-
duced, and will, it is believed, assist tens
of thousands of farmers to reduce their
costs a little and increase their output a
little. Other publications of the same sort
will follow. Next it wanted to help the
artists to dispose of their wares, mindful
of all the artists had done for The Bulle-
-1
tin ; and it built the Macleod Gallery,
which was opened yesterday. Every penny
it has spent has made it easier for some-
body to buy this company’s publications;
and every penny eveiy other employer in
Australia spends similarly does the same
service for him.
Too much can be made of the bugbear
of high wages. What is infinitely more im-
portant than low wages is high efficiency;
and it will be generally found that the
efficiency of Australian labor has materi-
ally increased during the past few years.
If we were self-contained we should not
have to worry about wages at all; the
higher the wages in that case the better.
It is only because of the need to export that
we have to produce at competitive prices.
But it is not wages in his industry that
worries the farmer; it is the heavy burdens
put upon him from outside the industry.
Unemployment and the overmanning of
the public service, including the railways,
with consequent taxation and crushing
charges, are the chief of these burdens; re-
employment, even at something like pre-
sent rates, would be infinitely better even
for the primary industries than existing
conditions.
It is true that in most cases you cannot
employ a man and get an immediate
return. If he is a rural worker it may be
12 months or more before you can hope to
get his wages back; if he is a factory
worker it may be less, but the employer in
that case has to provide for the purchase
of raw material, the cost of which may not
come back to him, along with the wages,
for many months. Finance is therefore of
great importance; and that is one reason
why a handful of politicians, meeting alone,
can do nothing more than pass pious reso-
lutions. Most fortunately the banks of
Australia have been handled with so much
prudence over so many years that they are
in a position to-day to give assistance when
the circumstances warrant it. They have
just found it possible to reduce their deposit
rates—proof that more money was available
at the old rates than they could profitably
use. The same suggestion comes from
sources outside the banks. Actually, more
capital has been returned by industrial and
trading cos. during the past few months
than has been put into such enterprises.
The conclusion is that capital is not short;
it is over-supplied.
In this matter the politician no doubt
has his uses. He can do the preliminary
organising. He may even be of assistance
in creating the right “atmosphere.” But
the bankers and the representatives of in-
dustry, both secondary and primary, must
be interested. For, after all, the employ-
ment must be a matter for the individual
employer. He will have to be persuaded
that it will pay him to “take a chance”—
have to be persuaded that the only way
to get rid of this unemployment, and relieve
himself of the dreadful burden of unem-
ployment taxes, direct and indirect, is to
give men jobs.
Meanwhile the politicians might very well
get busy on farm settlements. It is not
possible that these will be at once fully
self-supporting; it is possible that they
never will be. But a plan which will enable
Brown to grow even a cabbage for his own
pot, thereby relieving somebody else of
the necessity of paying for Brown’s cab-
bage. is taking a fir£t step back to sound
conditions. Reabsorption of the unem-
ployed, though we can enormously expe-
dite it, will not be a quick process, partly
because, as time goes on, very many who
are now in the public services and in un-
productive private employment will have
to be put off; something better than the
dole must be sought for them. Farm
settlements have this very great advantage
over any form of State relief works: they
concentrate public attention on the virtues
of production. One of our great national
catastrophes has been that we have turned
to public spending on relief jobs whenever
we have been in trouble. The public has
to be educated back to the knowledge that
in 99 cases out of 100 all such works are
a mean fraud upon our children, to whom
the bill is passed for payment, without any
valuable asset to represent it.
“BULLETIN’S” LENTEN PASTORAL.
In the N. S. Wales Assembly the other
morning the leader of the Opposition said
he had serious doubts about the honesty
of one or more members of the Govern-
ment, and he asked for a Royal Commis-
sion. The Government, by a party vote,
refused to regard the motion as a matter of
urgency. Whether the Government includes
a few rogues does not at the moment con-
cern us; what does concern us is the cynical
attitude of the Government towards the
charges. We are surely in a shocking state
of moral health when a Government can
hear its personal honor impugned by the
leader of the Opposition and pass on to the
next business as if nothing had happened.
If only the N. S. Wales Government
were afflicted with this atrophied moral
sense the matter would be serious; but
everywhere one can find evidences of the
same decay. It afflicts National as well
as State politics. A year ago, at a time
when we saw that it would pay us to
make a good impression on the British
people, we decided to cut down the rate of
interest on our domestic public loans. But,
having undertaken to pay a certain
amount, we had doubts whether Britain
would approve of a compulsory reduction by
22i p.c. even if it applied only to Australian
investors; so we gave it out that it was a
purely voluntary conversion. That was a
miserable, lying subterfuge, adopted and
carried through with the one object of
deceiving somebody; and by our subsequent
actions we proved it so. Yet we scarcely
turned a hair over that; certainly there
was no strong moral outburst, as there
should have been.
The one question we have come to ask
ourselves is, not “Is this thing right?” but
“Will this thing suit us?” and nine times
out of ten we mean by that “Will it put
money in our pockets?” “Put us into
office,” said Mr. Theodore, “and we will
have you Northern miners back at work
without loss of pay in a fortnight.” “Put
us into office,” said Mr. Lang, “and we will
cut out the unemployment tax which the
Bavin Government has imposed.” With a
cynicism which ought to make us shudder,
Mr. Lang told his brother-Premiers in
Melbourne almost the last time he met
them that the party which promised the
most wages got the most votes; and Mr.
Lang regarded a competition in promising
as the most natural thing in the world.
But surely politics ought to be governed by
the same principles as other human rela-
tions. Surely a lie is a lie in politics as it
is anywhere else, and a liar is a person not
to be trusted there more than anywhere
else!
What suits us best? What pays us best?
What is Mr. Lang’s whole policy based
upon but that? “No,” he says in effect,
“there is not enough money to pay both
my political friends and my political
enemies; and because I can rely upon get-
ting something from my friends, I am
going to see that they have preferential
treatment. We have undertaken to pay a
certain interest. I am not going to do it
if it means that my friends and supporters
are to go short.” Mr. Scull in is not much
better. “No,” he says, “if to keep our
promises and undertakings it means asking
our men to work for less money or longer
hours, then I will not ask them.” In other
words, “I’ll pay my debts and carry out
my undertakings if I can do it without
inconveniencing myself.”
At the bottom of the whole business we
thus see selfishness and a disregard of the
rights of others. What a man can do and
“get away with” we have come to think
he has the right to do—and the same with
a political party. Mr. Lang holds on to
office in spite of the vote at the Federal
election and the overwhelming defeat of
the Lang candidates. His motto plainly
is, “I can; therefore I will.” Mr. Stevens
challenges the honesty and integrity of Mr.
Lang’s Ministers. Instructions are given to
the party whips. “We have the numbers;
what else matters? I can; therefore I will.”
Is it surprising that for months past the
most sinister rumors have been in circulation
about this Minister and that—over the
Shadier contract; over the payment of
American interest and the default on Eng-
lish; over the tin hares; over certain of the
clauses in the moratorium and other mea-
sures; over a dozen other things? They
had the power to take; and their whole
policy has been a suggestion that “those
may take who have the power and those
may keep who can.”
The epidemic of violence is the same
disease in another form. “I can; therefore
I will.” With this is mingled some of the
fatalism which the war left behind it—
“lf it is to be, it will be; and what matter?”
And with it, of course, there is a contempt
for authority, or, at least, an indifference
towards it, authority being something which
is liable to interfere between us and our
desires. So at one end we see Mr. Lang
setting up Commissions which will do his
bidding, while he takes away power from
recalcitrants like Cleary. And at the other
end we see the mob falling upon the unfor-
tunate constable who dared to interfere
between one of their mates and his desires.
Each puts the boot in in his own way.,
The great calamity is that these things
are merely odd manifestations of the dis-
ease. The poison circulates right through
the system, and is liable to show itself in
all our actions. It is not conceivable, for
instance, that a healthy community would
tolerate the N.S.W. State lotteries, two or
three of them in a week, queues of thou-
sands lined up in a city suffering from more
unemployment than ever it had in its life,
even school-children spending their pennies
to buy shares in tickets in this nefarious
gamble; and on top of that the tin hares.
It is all materialism of such rank growth
that it stinks.
In former days adversity brought com-
munities to their senses. The present crisis
has not done it in Australia; on the con-
trary, it has encouraged spoliation, repudi-
ation, default. In former days it softened
men’s hearts; to-day it is hardening and
embittering them. Once it taught men that
they were kin; to-day it calls them to the
class war. It may be that the past was
all wrong; but neither the present nor the
future can be right if it is built on lying
and deceit and selfishness.
REFLECTIONS OF LIM SAM KEE.
“I see that the great Christian nations of
the West are holding a disarmament con-
ference,” said General Lim Sam Kee,
cracking a melon-seed thoughtfully. “The
aim, I understand, is to turn all the howit-
zers and battleships in the world into
ploughshares. I trust that this ideal, noble
as is its intention, will not be realised.
Mos.t people look tit this war-ancl-peace
business emotionally. The advantage of
living in a Buddhist monastery is that one
can look at it more or less detachedly,
especially if one is an ex-general who has
ooon deprived of his army owing to in-
ability to pay their wages.”
Lim looked pensively at a decorative
splash that had been made on the plaster
his cell by a machine-gun bullet.
It seems to me that you Westerners—
all at least theoretical pacifists, judging by
your speeches—do not properly realise the
immense benefits the late Great War in
Europe conferred on you. Consider what
you gained in that tremendous conflict.
1 he empires of Great Britain, France, Italy
and America became unified by a common
purpose. The German, Austrian and
allied nations sank their numerous dif-
ferences. Y our workmen and your capi-
talists agreed, for the first time in the his-
tory of the industrial era, to work together.
Your financiers became the servants instead
of the masters of your Governments. The
Governments were given the control of
production. They discouraged the trade in
luxuries and encouraged the production of
the necessities of the moment. They took
the iood of the people out of the hands
of speculators. The frightened politicians
lost confidence in their ability to rule by
virtue of their superior loquacity, and
rushed for assistance to the experts. The
experts created a hitherto unimaginable effi-
ciency in every direction. So great was this
efficiency that every Power was able to
withdraw millions of men from industry
and yet increase its services to the remain-
ing millions. In the process of making
shells the nations acquired a standard of
living that had hitherto been regarded as
impossible. The exchange of commodities
between the various nations reached unpre-
cedented figures. It is true that a large
portion of the trade consisted of high explo-
sives, which killed and mutilated men in
myriads; but it was trade all the same, since
the Germans hurled shells at the British
and the British hurled shells at the Ger-
mans, and all goods are made to be con-
sumed, while their replacement means
employment. The people are never directly
intei’ested in the development of science,
but science under Governmental direction
made greater strides during the four years
of war than it had made in the previous
two generations under private enterprise. If
they had only known it, the warring nations
emerged stronger from the Great War than
they were when they went into it. These
are some of the things that war achieved.
If the nations of the world had been at war
with Mars instead of with one another, the
record, I think, would have been even more
surprising.
“What has the Peace achieved?” Lim
asked with an impressive gesture. “As soon
as the menace to its national existence was
removed, every country sank into the old
condition of anarchy. The Governments
lost their courage, and gave up their right
of rule to vested interests. The statesmen
resumed the old game oP party politics.
Nations which had worked together during
the war became more hostile to each other
than they had previously been to their
enemies. In the science of economics
experts gave way to blatherskites, and every
country retired behind Chinese walls of
prohibitive tariffs, embargoes and boycotts.
The game of international finance was
played not with regard to the needs of the
people, but in the interests of small groups
of men concerned with gaining power with-
out responsibility and filling their pockets.
Whereas, during the war, trade, industry
and employment had been sustained, if
only by the exchange of horrible engines of
destruction, since the Peace they have lan-
guished owing to the belief that one nation
profits by the misery of others.
“As Lao-Tze said, the Great Way is
smooth, but the people love the bypaths.
In eveiy country the present crisis is attri-
buted to all sorts of local causes. One im-
potent Government replaces another equally
impotent, democratic constitutions give
way to military dictatorships, monarchies
to soviets. But the machines remain idle
and the people continue to go hungry. If
the nations were to decree universal dis-
armament and were to faithfully carry out
their promises, the only result under your
present organisation would be that more
millions of men would be added to the
ranks of the unemployed unable to get at
the instruments of production. While, un-
seen forces stand between them and the
people, disarmament simply means over-
population I trust that this extremely
indifferent brew of tea is not proving too
offensive to your palate.”
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Governor anti His Ministers.
In the N. S. Wales Assembly last week the
acting-leader of the Opposition declared
that he had in his hands documents which,
if they did not prove Ministerial and official
corruption, at any rate very seriously sug-
gested it; and he asked for a Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the whole unsavory
business. Without any debate, without
giving him an opportunity to show either
the strength or the weakness of his case,
his motion that the matter should be dealt
with as one of urgency was defeated on a
party vote.
It may be argued that the Government is
so convinced of its own spotlessness that it


regards any inquiry as superfluous. But
it is not enough that it should be con-
vinced of its own spotlessness. The people
have a right to be satisfied, too. It would
be absurd to suggest that the Government
is bound to appoint a Commission at the
behest of anybody who may impugn its
honor and integrity. Much, no doubt,
depends upon the challenger. In this case,
however, it was the acting-leader of the
Opposition; and coming from such a quaiter
no Government has a right to ignore the
challenge. Nor is it possible to believe that
any Government which was convinced of
its spotlessness would attempt to ignore it.
Nobody knows better than Mr. Lang that,
if its position was unassailable, the Govern-
ment could not only strengthen its own
position but greatly damage that the
Opposition by a prompt acceptance. That
it refused to take up the challenge in such
circumstances strongly suggests, therefore,
that it has very grave doubts about the
honor and integrity of one or more of its
members—either this, or it does not believe
the people have any right to be satisfied
upon the point.
But while the Premier, with the assistance
of his party majority, can snap his fingers in
the face of the people, he cannot so lightly
do the same thing in the face of the
Governor. His Excellency may not have the
right to require the Premier to appoint a
Royal Commission, but he has the right to
require Mr. Lang to satisfy him that his
Ministers are not crooks and scoundrels.
Also, although it conceivably may not
matter to Mr. Lang whether his colleagues
are crooks and scoundrels, it certainly does
matter to his Excellency whether his Minis-
ters are. It may be granted at once that
his Excellency is not bound to take notice
of every Tom, Dick and Harry who may
make charges against his Ministers; but if
the challenge of the leader of the Opposi-
tion in such a matter is not to be regarded,
whose challenge is to be regarded?
♦
The Fight for Honesty.
Auditor-General Cerutty has certified
that N. S. Wales owes the Commonwealth
£924,082, the amount, less certain adjust-
ments, of which the State Government tried
to cheat its creditors in pursuit of the swindle
which the Premier calls his “plan”; and
both Houses of Parliament have resolved
that the national Government should pro-
ceed to collect N.S.W. revenue until the
debt is satisfied. Certificate and resolu-
tions are provided for in the Financial
Agreements Act. That measure further
authorises the national Government to
apply to the High Court for a declaration,
having the force of a judgment, that the
amount mentioned in the certificate is due
and unpaid, and to anticipate the issue of
the declaration by directing N.S.W. people,
by proclamation, to pay specified State taxes
to the Commonwealth of which they are
citizens, and which seeks to maintain the
national solvency and honor.
So far it is not proposed to go beyond
income tax, but if the High Court rules
that the legislation is valid, almost any
other N.S.W. State tax may be the sub-
ject of a proclamation; they were nearly
all mentioned in the resolutions of the
House of Representatives and the Senate.
It is recognised that the defaulting Gov-
ernment will very probably try to play
tricks (as it did when it brought in an
•‘unemployment” tax of ss. in the £, collect-
able weekly, in an effort to wreck the
Premiers’ plan and the .Commonwealth
Government’s finances); it is. also necessary
to provide against further dishonesty. “If
we assume that the State Government will
maintain its present attitude,” the Prime
Minister says, “the amount in default will
reach £4,500,000 by June 30.” If it defaults
on the interest due to private bondholders,
who thus far have been paid—perhaps be-
cause the N.S.W. civil-service superannua-
tion funds were mostly invested in State loans,
since converted —the amount may reach
nearly £6,000,000. To add to the Common-
wealth’s difficulties, the State with the tin-
hare Government, has £12,969,500 of float-
ing debt, utterly unprovided for, and
£15,564,390 of its loans fall due this year—
£12,992,900 in London and £2,571,490 in Aus-
tralia. So the situation calls for energy
and unbending firmness on the part of the
Commonwealth Government, and energy
and unbending firmness, which were lament-
ably lacking at Canberra when the cam-
paign of crookedness was waged last year,
are at length being displayed. It may be
true that Lyons is straining the Constitution
in trying to keep Lang as straight as it is
possible for Lang to be; but better that
Lyons should strain the Constitution with
that end in view than that Lang should
‘smash it with a possible Soviet Republic
in view.
Smash it he certainly will if he is allowed
the opportunity. Fool or knave, dupe or
megalomaniac, he is a very architect of
ruin. After two months of his “plan” his
Savings Bank put up the shutters; another
two or three months and he was reduced
to crawling to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for the money to pay his public ser-
vants. Yet the people are asked to be-
lieve that the shameful policy which failed
then, bringing ruin to thousands and swell-
ing the number of unemployed, will suc-
ceed if tried on a larger scale, and that in
any case default is such a noble thing that
resistance to it will warrant secession, if not
civil war. And this when P .ain has shown
us what honesty and courage can do in a
financial and economic crisis that was in
some respects worse than ours—-Britain, its
Budget balanced, its trade reviving, its con-
fidence restored, its reputation among the
nations loftier than ever.
♦
Well, the Bridge Is Open.
Whatever else it might be, that was a child-
ish performance which disturbed the opening
of the Sydney Harbor Bridge on Saturday.
The hundreds of thousands who, in the
present circumstances of the State, would
have been better at home or about their
ordinary avocations were gathered at the
great arch, the inevitable speeches were being
made and the time had almost come for
the cutting of the ribbon when a young
man, a former cavalry officer, mounted and
in uniform, under cover of which he had
passed through with the escort, spurred his
horse forward, and with his sword slashed
the wisp of silk, while he spoke a few words
in the best manner of old melodrama.
Then, still in the best manner of old melo-
drama, he was dragged from his horse and
taken to the reception house—a nice touch
this last, in the best manner of Lang ad-
ministration, which has brought offensive
language and insulting behavior to a fine
art.
But, though it was a childish outburst,
disturbing the smooth flow of a perform-
ance which was itself all more or less
childish, let us at least fairly apportion
the blame. It must be widely distributed.
All around on this day were men and women
who 18 months ago voted for Lang and
Labor because, in plain English, they
allowed themselves to be bribed to do it.
That was the popular share of the respon-
sibility. But Lang lied to the people; he
broke his promises; he repudiated after
he had declared that his party would never
repudiate. To some extent that relieves the
people of their responsibility; and what
they got rid of the Governor has to carry.
A Governor’s position is quite clear. He
is not called upon to save a people from
the consequences of its folly. So long as
Governments carry out the policy which
the people have approved, he has no right
to interfere, no matter how rotten it may
be. But he is called upon to protect a
people from the consequences of his Mini-
sters’ duplicity.
And inevitably the New Guard comes
into the business. Born for action should
action become necessary, this body devel-
oped far too much of that capacity for
talk which either shows a poor capacity for
action or makes action very difficult, and
uncertain. Conspicuous among this too-
much talk was the threat or promise or
whatever it might be that Lang would not
open the bridge, a statement repeated again
and again, and so invested with a signifi-
cance far beyond its deserts. The foolish
utterance gave a mere formality an im-
portance which should never have been
attached to it, and when physical force was
suggested as the instrument which was to
be used, not a thing was done to denounce
the suggestion. On the contrary, the idea
was encouraged; and, though it might be
improper to suggest at this stage that it
was responsible for the childish performance
on Saturday, a connection between the two
is painfully obvious.
Who snipped a piece of string on that
day did not of itself matter two straws;
but who heads the government of N. S.
Wales matters enormously. So long as
there was the suggestion of a challenge to
constituted authority—so long as there was
a suggestion that physical force might be
used to keep Lang from opening the bridge
—just so long was it difficult for his Excel-
lency to take any steps towards sending this
Government to its masters, the people.
Anything he might have done could easily
have been translated into a concession to
revolutionary threats. Happily that posi-
tion is now past. Lang has cut the ribbon;
he has opened the bridge; constituted
authority has been asserted. The way is
therefore now open to his Excellency to
proceed.
4
Secession.
Acting as advance agent for State Premier
Lang, Senator Rae, of N. S. Wales, gave
notice to his fellow-members that any move
to collect defaulted interest from Lang by
process of law will lead to tumult and
bloodshed, either accompanied or closely
followed by the secession of the Ma State
from the Commonwealth. There are great
possibilities about the gallant Senator’s pro-
gramme. For instance: —
(1) The Constitution provides that the Common-
wealth shall interfere to put down the disorderly
free fight that Lang and Rae are to raise, provided
the Lang Government requests it to do so. Of
course it won’t request anything of the sort; but
Governor Game might keep within the letter of the
law by sacking Lang and getting a different kind
of Government. All Governments except Lang’s are
different.
(2) Lang and Rae may try to keep one jump
ahead of Governor Game by declaring that N. S.
Wales has seceded from the Commonwealth, and that
both Governor and High Court have ceased to exist
so far as it ia concerned. There might, however, be
the deuce of a row in getting Parliament and Gov-
ernor Game to pass a Secession Act.
(3) Secession is illegal, Act or no Act, for the
union of the States is nominally indissoluble. But
the men who made the Constitution apparently forgot
to provide for its indissolubility. So if Lang and
Rae want to secede it may be best to just let them,
explaining at the same time that as N.S.W. has
become a foreign country the Commonwealth may
make war on it in the ordinary way. Having
declared itself outside the Australian Constitution,
any part or parts of it which wanted to separate
and rejoin Australia might be assured of a cordial
welcome, thus saving the laborious procedure speci-
fied in Clauses 121, 122, 123 and 124 which attends
the subdivision of a State inside the Constitution.
There might, of course, be unpleasant hap-
penings while the secession movement was
on, but they would probably not be numer-
ous, and they wouldn't Tast long, and they
would most likely happen to the most suit-
able people.
Ireland.
Mr. de Valera, the Spanish gentleman from
New York, has been elected by a large
majority to be Prime Minister of the Irish
Free State, but some uncertainty still pre-
vails. The party now in power represents a
supposed All-Ireland republican majority,
but it isn’t certain whether an effective
majority of that majority is willing to push
the matter to a finish, which might mean
trying to conquer the mostly-Protestant
Dominion of Northern Ireland. And the
position doesn’t encourage one to want to
die in the last ditch for a republic. The
Free State already has its own Parliament;
its own language, which is being revived
with some difficulty; its name of “Free”
is a concession to local sentiment; its
share of the United Kingdom’s debt has
been wholly written off; and the old Irish
landlord is practically extinct. The gain
that a definite withdrawal from the British
connection would bring would be that the
Irishman would be a stranger and a
foreigner in a very large empire, and would
have the right to wander into scraps which
might be beyond his size and capacity.
On second thoughts he may have doubts
whether there is much sense in being in a
hurry.
*
The Archibald Memorial.
Mr. T. H. Kelly, handing over the Archi-
bald Memorial Fountain,, on behalf of
Archibald’s trustees, to the City of Sydney,
said of the donor: —
He had a strong love of all that makes for the
enlightenment of humanity, and throughout his life
he was a champion for the freedom of thought and
the free play of intellectual forces. As editor of
The Bulletin he did his best to encourage origin-
ality, to stimulate the efforts of all who had some-
thing to say as writers or artists. In his heart he
feared that Australia, as a country of primary
industries, might degenerate into a condition of
chronic intellectual stagnation. He aimed to arouse
our latent mental and spiritual activities. It was
the stirring and development of such forces, primitive
enough in their origin, which led to the glorious
cultural achievements of ancient Greece, of the
Italian Renaissance, and of modern France.
Archibald had one constant instruction to
his young men: “If you are not sure that
the other fellow is right, disagree with
him.” He held forth a hundred times on
the value of discord. He loathed mutual
admiration societies. One of his great fears
about Australia was that because of_ its
youth it would be intolerant of criticism.
“Criticism and quality go together,” he
insisted; “kill one and the other dies.”
As Mr. Kelly said, Archibald “feared that
Australia, as a country of primary indus-
tries, might degenerate into chronic intellec-
tual stagnation.” But he dreaded quite as
much that Australia would be too easily ,
satisfied with its own work. Smugness and
self-satisfaction were devils to be fought at
every turn. This explains why Archibald
greatly desired that a French sculptor of the
highest eminence should get this commis-
sion. It would, he hoped, do for Australia
precisely what he trusted the Archibald Prize
would do: be provocative, stirring us to
something higher; would be a critic continu-
ally in our midst. And in his view there
is always hope where there is, in Mr. Kelly’s
words, “the free play of intellectual forces.”
«
Wool-selling Arrangements.
Dear Bulletin, —When going through the
“Plain English” paddock yesterday I heard
a plaintive bleating away in the south-east
corner, and followed it up to find that it
emanated from “Grazier Since the ’Eighties”
(B. 9/3/’32). This poor wether had evi-
dently strayed away from the mob feeding
on the plain of Knowledge, and had become
bogged in the stream of Ignorance.
Had “Grazier, etc.,” attended this year’s
conference of N. S. Wales graziers held in
Sydney, he would have been convinced
that more than a little fighting for their
rights was being done by the delegates—
from the chairman down. One or two put
up a game fight on the very lines suggested
passively by poor bogged “Grazier, etc.”
Had he heard the chairman (Mr. Tout)
speaking to the woolbrokers’ representatives
on the subject of reduction of selling
charges in such terms as to make them
hang their heads; had he heard one dele-
gate (Mr. H. It. Munro), himself a direc-
tor of a woolbroking firm, offering apolo-
gies for the brokers’ treatment, and avow-
ing his intention of fighting his board for
lighter selling conditions; had he seen the
brokers’ spokesman (Mr. F. Young), gener-
ally a fluent and pleasing speaker, twist
and turn, fumble with his collar and tie,
and fairly sweat in half-hearted defence of
the brokers, he might have gone away con-
vinced that the fighters were not all out-
side.
The men who go to these conferences do
so at their own expense (rail fares ex-
cepted), and deserve every credit for their
public-spirited stand rather than condem-
nation and mudslinging at the hands oi
some few disgruntled men who hold extreme
ideas and want to cram them down the
throats of the public.
It would certainly be an excellent idea
to hold these conferences in country centres.
How, though, would it be possible to get
access to the information required; how in-
duce Ministers, heads of departments, rail-
way commissioners, woolbrokers, etc., to
attend with their staffs ready to be called
upon by deputation? The idea won’t work;
it has had mature consideration and the
whole flock, except a few stragglers that
have been wandering on a pea-infested
watercourse, agree that the big conferences
must be held in the metropolis.
The only way out for “Grazier, etc.,” is
to keep off the pea, get back to the confer-
ences as a delegate—if he is not too old—
and meanwhile read up the report of the
doings of the 1932 conference—Your neigh-
bor, Yarry-goon-dool.
♦
Malaria.
Two cases of malaria recently contracted
in Brisbane by people who have had no
chance of getting infected elsewhere are
a disquieting reminder of the prevalence of
the disease in former days. There are
plenty of anopheline mosquitoes, the
malaria-carrying type, in Australia, extend-
ing as far south as the Murray, and these
only require infection from some person
with active parasites in his blood to become
capable of transmitting the disease. Severe
outbreaks of fatal type occurred at Kidston
(N.Q.) and at Cairns a little over a decade
ago. Malaria of a very dangerous type has
been prevalent in the Gulf country for
nearly 70 years. It was brought to Burke-
town in the early ’sixties by a ship from
Java, and decimated the little settlement.
It was also very prevalent at Brisbane and
Rockhampton in the early days. Plenty of
people with active parasites in their blood
are constantly visiting Queensland from
New Guinea, the Solomons, Dutch Indies
and elsewhere. An epidemic in North
Queensland, followed by endemic preva-
lence, would do more to ruin the sugar
industry and the white settlement of Tropi-
cal Australia than any possible tariff antics
of the most stupid Government. North
Queensland is the only really healthy tropi-
cal country for white people in the world,
and the reason is that it is relatively
malaria-free. It is of vital importance to
Australia that it should be kept so.
4
A Railway that Pays.
One extraordinary feature of Australian
railway finance, on which a body of experts
appointed at the instance of the Premiers
Conference has reported to the Prime Min-
ister in melancholy terms, is that, while
all the Government lines are showing huge
losses, Westralia’s Midland Railway Co. is
making profits. In 1928, ’29 and ’3O it actu-
ally paid dividends. For the three years
1929-31 inclusive it announced net profits
of £217,500, while the Government depart-
ments reported losses amounting to
£24,138,000 exclusive of grants from tax-
revenue (£2,400,000 in N. S. Wales) in aid
of “developmental” railways. In 1930-31,
with revenue falling £35,550 to £92,135, a
net profit of £46,130 was made on the
privately-owned railway. In their last year
the Government railways, excluding subsi-
dies from the taxes, went another 1(B- mil-
lions to the bad.
And the Midland co. pays taxes, which
none of the Government systems does. It
makes provision, unlike them, for deprecia-
tion and renewals and has £llO,OOO in a
reserve fund. It is obliged to add exchange
to interest (4-1- p.c. and 5 p.c.) on its first-
and second-mortgage debenture stock, which
is all held abroad. Moreover, wages and
working conditions are the same as on the
Westralian Government lines. Another queer
fact is that, the co. did not begin to pay
dividends till 1928, the 14th year of chronic
deficits in the Government departments;
but the building of a trade-stealing Govern-
ment line alongside its 277-mile length was
largely responsible for that.
How about inviting this concern to take
a lease of all the Government lines, with
a guarantee of freedom from the blight of
political control?
. Cutting the Ribbon.
Reflections on a picturesque diversion: —
This paper guessed Captain de Groot was a British
officer the moment it heard of his ribbon-cutting
feat. They specialise in jokes of the sort in England.
The flower of Britain’s young nobility at Oxford
once daubed the biggest quad in Christchurch College
with red paint because the lions wouldn’t let them
attend a ball given by the Duke of Marlborough.
Another band of aristocratic humorists dressed. up
as a foreign potentate and retinue, and were received
with full honors on board a battleship, the captain
having been informed by wire of their impending
arrival. And then there were the splendid idiots
who borrowed navvies’ clothes and pickaxes, roped
off a square in Piccadilly opposite a home in which
friends were giving a ball, and dug a large hole
in the street under the protection of a bemused
gang of policemen who had been sent there to direct
the car traffic.
It needs nerve to bring off such stunts. Captain
de Groot, for example, had no official standing
whatever. Yet by the simple process of putting on
an old uniform and hiring a horse he was able
to bluff 1400 policemen and reach A stand (a holy of
holies reserved almost exclusively for Trades Hall
rnagnificoes). An overseas Prime Minister—a Ram-
say MacDonald or a Baldwin —would have sent for
the joker after the first shock of surprise had worn
off, and turned the edge of the joke by asking him
to shake hands and have a cocktail. This was what
the captain of the warship mentioned above did with
the voung men who had hoaxed him. But our
Premier sees a joke with great difficulty, and espeeb
ally a joke which goes against him.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years* Reputation for Quality
r
10* jm
POLITICAL
POINTS
A. man was fined £2O at Paddington
(Sydney) the other day for “having dis-
persed a pamphlet on which the name and
address of the printer had not been printed.”
Meantime thousands of “stickers” have been
‘ dispersed” all over the city, carrying the
message (which is as definite as any pam-
phlet could ever carry) : “Lang is Right.
Don’t Read the ‘Daily Telegraph.’ ” There
is no printer’s name or address on this
sheet; but. nobody has been fined £2O for
"dispersing” it. It is harder for a man to
say “Lang is right” and break the law in
N. S. Wales at present than it is to enter
the Kingdom of Heaven.
By 158 to 77 the A.N.A. men at their
Bendigo conference resolved that union on
S’African lines was preferable to our
Federal system. Slater, the Labor Attorney-
General, a member of the board of directors,
led the unificationists, and the case for
federalism was put by Hume-Cook, ex-
M.H.R., and George Wise, ex-P.M.G. The
resolution has some historic importance,
even though the A.N.A. is not the barometer
of public opinion that it was 35 years ago.
To a man it was federalist then.
Because its interest swindle has been chal-
lenged by the Commonwealth, the Lang mob
is talking secession. One of the places it
wants to secede from, or fancies it does at
the moment, is Westralia. The Westralian
“Statistical Register” shows that N.S.W.
goods valued (in Australian currency) at
£2,351,600 went across to Westralia in 1930-
31 while only £lBl,OOO worth of Westralian
goods came into N. S. Wales. If Lang
smashed the Commonwealth, as he smashed
the Savings Bank, the Westralian trade,
now so valuable to N. S. Wales, wouldn’t
bring in, in 12 months, the current price of
a license for a tin-hare joint.
Mick Ivirwan, who has been Labor M.L.A.
for Brisbane since April, 1912, and was a
Minister for nearly five years, has lost the
party nomination to Funnell, one of his
opponents in the selection ballot. Bruce,
of Kennedy, is another sitting member who
has suffered; Copley, president of the State
Service Union, scored over Brfice and
another in Bulimba. And Myles Ferricks,
who was sure he could win back South
Brisbane, which he represented for nine
years (1920-29) after serving six years in
the Senate, was downed by J. P. Keogh. In
Myles’s case and Mick’s there are wigs on
the green, and a regular Donnybrook is rag-
ing at Maryborough, where Jimmy Stopford,
who was McCormack’s Home Secretary, looks
to be having the best of it.
Dropping the Pilot — N.S.W. style.
A sojourner in N. S. Wales has been
officially informed, through The Bulletin’s
Service Department, that he is expected to
pay N.S.W. unemployment tax (Is. in the
£, and Lang wanted to make it 55.) on a
pension from India and dividend on a small
British investment, though the income is
taxed before it reaches Australia. At this
rate, shoals of people now in Sydney from
other parts could be taxed if it could be
proved that their weekly income while in
Lang’s State exceeded £2. Perhaps Lang
will instruct his taxgatherers to go after
these people on the ground that they are
Shylocks,” “bloodsuckers,” “hungry bond-
holders,” “exploiters,” and foreigners in any
case—all persons not bom in N. S. Wales
are foreigners in Lang’s sight.
Nature can be brutally unjust. One day
last week 50,000 or 60,000 school children
were brought to Sydney to tramp over the
bridge, which is. going to cost most of them
a pretty penny in tolls, taxes and excessive
fares —and it rained on them all the time.
Many of them went home with colds and
ruined frocks. But the politicians and public
servants who let the poor kids in for a life-
long liability; who promised that the bridge
would cost, not “about £9,900,000” —the latest
“estimate”—but £5,750,000, “which is not to
be exceeded by more
than 10 p.c.”; pro-
mised also that it
would show, not an an-
imal loss of £192,500
—also the latest
“estimate”—but an
ann u a 1 profit of
£250,000 without
tolls or excessive
charges—these poli-
ticians and public
servants had perfect
weather for their day
of undeserved glory.
That capital little
quarterly the Vie.
“Taxpayer” pub-
lishes a crushing in-
dictment of the
“cumbersome, expen-
sive and obstructive
legislation known as
the Sales Tax Act,”
prepared by L. E.
Horne, secretary of
the W. A. Tax-
payers’ Association.
As Horne says, the
thing consists of
“about 36 enact-
ments, _ a mass of
regulations and num-
b e r 1 e s s conflicting
rulings, which have
the force of law
until upset on
appeal.” Recent rul-
ings are that a
florist is exempt if
he ties flowers with
string, but n<ft if he
ties them with wire;
that second-hand
furniture is tax-free,
but if the dealer re-
pairs it he is liable
for 6 p.c. on every-
thing he sells; that
restaurateurs needn’t
pay tax on buns,
pastry, scones, sandwiches or “freshly-
cooked” fish or lobster, but must pay on
cakes, and on fried fish and lobster that is
stale or getting that way. Horne is of
opinion that a 1 p.c. tax on turnover “would
produce more revenue at a tithe of the cost
and annoyance,” and he is probably right.
If the Hogans, who are sketching out a
programme of works to warrant the borrow-
ing of a million and a half “to relieve unem-
ployment,” cannot find anything better for the
metropolis than the Kew-Doncaster railway
and the Laverton-Derrimut stock saleyards
(both have been suggested), continuance of
the dole would be preferable. There is no
prospect of a Doncaster line paying; the
failure of the Glen Waverley extension (the
latest outer-suburban stretch) ought to be
a lesson. Nor is there any financial hope
for Laverton-Derrimut stockyards. Con-
vinced that no works programme worth
adoption will be submitted, J. A. Gray, the
new member for Hawthorn, says Parliament
will have to “nestle down to the dole.”
J. J. Lynch, secretary of the railway
navvies’ branch of the A.W.U., and a tren-
chant critic of Badly, the Minister of No-
Labor and, Tlinderstry, asks that person why
there was “.so much haste in appointing
three new chairmen, at £7OO p.a., for In-
dustrial Committees which have expired and
cannot function until the full Commission
is appointed.” “The electors,” Lynch adds.
4 are entitled to know.” So they are ■ and
they are entitled to know the whys and
wherefores of heaps of other things that the
Lang mob has done or left undone. But
the mysteries are never explained.
A newspaperman summoned for jury ser-
vme _at the Sydney Quarter Sessions made
mqumes about the accused placed on trial
while he was there. Three out of four
were young men on the dole, and the
c “ ai ‘? e „ m nearly every case was some form
ot theft. In nearly every case also the
youth in the dock looked a fairly good type.
Lang thinks he is doing his followers a
great service by maintaining the basic wage
at the boom-time figure by thrown)- a
spanner into the industrial-arbitration
works; and some are doubtless benefiting
at the moment, but it is at the expense
ot others. Thousands of employers can no
longer afford to pay unskilled boys of 21
±4 "S. 6d. a week, plus endowment tax
(£2 in the £100), plus workers’-compensation
insurance (this cost £1,898,700 in 1929-30),
plus unemployed-relief tax (Is. in the £1)
and all the other taxes, Federal and State;
and they have given up trying. And as
there are no jobs to be got from the feckless
Government, though it has £6,000,000 or
£7,000,000 of unemployed-relief tax-money to
play with, the weak and the overbold turn
to crime.
Twelve hours or so before Captain de
Groot declared the bridge open the
Parliament adjourned for five weeks, leav-
ing half the members of the Leg. Council
half-dead. All-night, sittings, resumed after
HIS EXCELLENCY: “And I now call upon the Premier, the
Honorable J. T. Lang, to open the Bridge.”
LANG: Yes, your Excellency. I'll open any darn bridge you
like as long as it doesn’t lead to the electors.”
an interval for a wash and brush-up and a
meal, are hard on young men; they are
sheer cruelty to old fellows who take their
duties seriously, as so many Leg. Councillors
do. By this process of exhaustion the Dang-
ers got a majority for their Ministry of
Transport Bill, under which Goode, who
was sacked from the Railway Department,
is to be set over Cleary, who sacked him.
But the Opposition was not too far gone
to shelve the bill to “burst the big estates,”
or the men who own them, nor to revive
ominously when Lang brought in a bill to
invalidate a deal in “Smith’s Weekly” shares,
the measure being interpreted as a plan to
reward Joynton Smith for giving Lang and
his crowd journalistic backing and ruin
Packer, the other party to the transaction,
for opposing them. It was alleged that Con-
cannon, Lang’s Upper House Minister, had
said he would resign rather than introduce
so rotten a development of Labor legisla-
tion. Be this as it may, it was not intro-
duced.
Tobacco is still classed as a luxury, and
hence fair game all the world over for thump-
ing taxes. Australians, according to Minister
Gullett, consume annually 14,000,000 pounds
of it, and the Government benefits thereby
to the extent of £6,500,000. Australian
canaries, it transpired a few days earlier,
require 1500 tons of seed a year for their
sustenance, but a few thousands would cover
all that the Government gets out of that in
duty and excise. Nobody would wish to
see. the pleasures of bird-fanciers circum-
scribed, but aren’t canaries really more of
a luxury than tobacco?
. a conference of mayors in Melbourne
it was. suggested that unemployment might
be relieved if Fisherman’s Bend, a bit of
reclaimed riverbed owned bv the Goverment.
were thrown open for factory sites. One
estimate was. that £21,000,000 would thus
find its way into the Government’s coffers.
At present Fisherman’s Bend contains an
elegant garden suburb and an expensive con-
crete speedway. The addition of new fac-
tories when so many of the old ones at
1 ort Melbourne are idle or on rations
wouldn’t improve the landscape, natural or
economic.
As a cure for the depression the Mayor
of Fitzroy suggests scrapping the White Aus-
tralia policy. This, according to his Worship,
would result in large works being started in
the N.T. and millions of pounds being
brought into the country. The Fitzroy
gentleman might explain why great works
haven’t been started in Timor, the Celebes,
Dutch New Guinea and other parts of the
Dutch East Indies. The Dutch have
strained every nerve to get the overcrowded
Javanese to immigrate to these huge islands,
which are scantily populated. There are
a few industries, such as oil-getting, but
there are no great works with millions of
pounds invested in them.
The proposition that membership of a
Cabinet doesn’t necessarily mean agreement
on all important points, and that Ministers
are not debarred from speaking, and even
vcdng, against views held by the majority of
their colleagues, is being defended with poor
success in England. The notion was first put
in action by Beasley and others in the Scullin
Government, when they claimed the right to
retain their jobs and to criticise their leader
at the same time. It didn’t work here, and
the refractories were removed by Caucus; it
is even less likely to last in Britain.
As Jimmy McLachlan, independent and
unconventional member for Gippsland North
(Vic.) for 21 years, won’t join the Cocky
party, that group is bringing out against
him R. Harrison, of Avon shire council.
Except Jimmy’s realm and the Labor strong-
hold of Wonthaggi, where the State coal-
mine is, the U.C.P. holds all Gippsland.
C. W. Grant has become a stopgap Sena-
tor from Tasmania for the second time. The
candidates were a mixed lot: ex-Agent-
General Addison, ex-Senator Keating, some-
time Senator and M.H.R. O’Keefe, Seabrook,
M.H.A., Jackson, ex-M.H.R., Ministers
Grant (the winner), Lee (ex-I J remier),
Hobbs and former Minister Becker, and
Cooper, Edgell and Pearsall, unsuccessful
candidates for the Senate. Most of the 12
went out on the first count. O’Keefe
(Labor) was the last to be cut up, the dis-
tribution of his votes tipping the scale
against Lee. Arndell Lewis steps into
Grant’s place as one of the members for
Denison.
“2nd Divvy” : The repudiation of De Groot
by the president of the R.S.L. (N.S.W.
branch) will help to complete the split
that has been going on in the ranks of ex-
Diggers since Lang took office. Rightly or
wrongly tlie New Guard members approve of
De Groot’s exploit, and many of them are
R.S.L. members. Since De Groot has never
belonged to the League, there was no need
for the R.S.L. president to rush in. By
doing so Mr. Robb has created an impres-
sion that the R.S.L. is a sort of Trades Hall
union, an upholder of the principle that a
joke against Lang is a crime ; and that lets
out the ex-Diggers, unionist and otherwise,
who think almost any joke at the expense
of Lang is a good one. The British equiva-
lent of our League is going stronger than
ever to-day, chiefly because the heads have
never let it get within smelling distance of
a political row.
“Where’s my Second-Chamber umbrella,
Mr. Moore?”
“Well, it was this way, Miss Queensland.
I couldn’t make up my mind whether
you ought to have one plain or striped.”
With ragged nerves and bloodshot eyes,
the Opposition in the Leg. Council fought
every line of the socialisation-of-industry
measure Lang calls his Arbitration Bill, and
has saved N. S. Wales, for the time being
at least, from its most infamous features.
That will be remembered to the Chamber’s
credit, even if the Privy Council pronounces
its doom.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“Blue Roses
Her Majesty umiea and Talkies
State • *
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR
K T °vr>s “The" Barretts of Wimpole Street”
Hoyts (o. Sat). “ SSL
State
♦
The Last Act of the Great Bridge Play!
In the preceding Acts the project the
building of the mightiest and most majestic
bridge in history as a fitting adjunct to the
finest harbor in the world and the second
biggest city in the British Empire (colored
folk barred from the count) —has been brought
to fruition. But dark clouds have settled over
the great nation and vast continent with
boundless natural resources, of which this
stupendous engineering triumph is at once
the crown and the symbol. Bailiffs hovel
in the offing, the myrmidons of Honest Joe
Lyons or of the Bloated Capitalistic Octo-
pus, according to taste, and the fair btate
of New South Wales is by schisms rent
asunder and by heresies distressed, as it says
in the hymn. Eric and his Blackshirts ha
sworn a terrible oath that Honest Jack Lang
shall not open the Bridge, were he JO times
Premier of the State, and protected by fU
times as many policemen. Far away m
London Honest Albert Willis has been given
the oil that dark plots are afoot to kidnap
the Premier and chuck him in the river,
which raises, in addition to other questions,
the nice point as to exactly where the Inrra-
matta ceases to be the Parramatta and be-
comes Port Jackson. Eric and Joe Lyons s
bailiffs are waiting in the wings, and nn
air of unrest shot through with pleasurable
expectancy pervades the situation when the
curtain rises on Act Three.
For this Act the scene is the Bradfield
Highway, a concrete plateau, from which
a distant view of one corner of the Bridge
"Kidnap the Premier and chuck him in the
‘river.’”
can be obtained by craning the neck. Rough
scaffoldings of planks have been erected along
this plateau for spectators of the drama, and
railed off from the plateau by police-guarded
barriers are forty thousand of the owners
of the Bridge. These are congregated in a
small valley, and look like the confectionery
known as hundreds and thousands, piled into
a trough. Overhead, to use the striking
phrase of Alderman Primrose, is the blue
canopy of Heaven. Sydney has one perfect
day every year. This is it. Girls wear
their brightest and scantiest clothing. Many
infants have been brought out in arms so
that they may be able to tell their great-
grandchildren they saw the famous scrap
between Eric and Honest Jack. All nature
rejoices.
It is at once apparent, however, that a
sinister current under-runs this seemingly
idyllic scene. Turn where you will your eye
meets curates. Long curates, short curates,
stout curates, thin curates are here in droves.
Can it be —the mind shudders at the suspi-
cion—that these are the dread emissaries
of Eric, or even of Joe? And yonder, on
a tall scaffolding, opposite the rostrum re-
served for the principal actors, are men
armed with suspicious-looking objects on
tripods. Harmless photographic appliances
these are deemed to be, but may not one
of those dark cloths cloak a Lewis-gun or
a Maxim? Yonder drummer-boy, looking so
demure in his nice dark-blue uniform, may
be there for other purposes than to accentu-
ate performances of “God Save.” But the
forces of evil are not to have it all tlieir
own way. Stalking hither and thither,
granite-faced and steely-eyed, are sergeants,
inspectors, superintendents and commission-
ers of police. The inspectors carry hunting-
crops, and one commissioner wears spurs.
They are ready for any hanky-panky. Let
Erie beware ! . .
And now a hush falls over the waiting
populace, followed by faint cheers. Some, of
the great ones are arriving. On foot, with
his wife, toddles past a little man with a
grizzled moustache. “That’s Jimmy Graves!’
says someone in an awe-stricken mutter. And
there come bowling on to the plateau, a
series of huge Rolls-Royces. Mounted police
on magnificent horses; lancers on still more
magnificent horses. Governors. Honest Joe
Lyons (sensation). And now, heralded by a
gust of cheering that swells up and down
the troughful of populace, an otherwise
empty car driven by a policeman. “Ha, ha!”
say the populace. “Honest Jack’s too
clever for ’em. Hiding under the seat, he
is!” But no. Following the empty car is
one from which the large, pallid, half-cring-
ing, half-defiant, wholly weary face of the
Premier of the State looks out. He and his
wife ascend the rostrum, and Honest Jack
shakes bands with Honest Joe. (Renewed
sensation.) No sign of Eric. Follows a
flood of speech-making, made clear to all by
amplifiers which cut out aspirates and equip
Sir Philip Game and the Honorable Rowley
Ivitson with a Cockney easiness of diction
that sounds ineffably quaint. Honest Jack,
his great jowl protruded in the attitude or
a bull resenting the attentions of a matador,
says wistful things about the need to build
a bridge of understanding. Sprightly little
“Can it be that these are the dread emis-
saries of Eric or even of Joe?”
Air Vice-Marshal Game advances rather
doubtfully the hope that Australians will see
in the Bridge a symbol of something beyond
the mere material. Big-headed Dr. Brad-
field says he was born 30 years too soon (a
conclusion to which others have indepen-
dently attained), and speaks hopefully oi
several more bridges, including one across
the Heads, though what use that would be
only a profoundly gifted engineer could
imagine. Best speech of the day is Kitson s,
winding up with a compliment to Bradfield
that slides clear of controversy with genial
grace Lawrence Ennis, the big Englishman
who 'bossed the Bridge contract, spreads
butter on his Australian colleagues. Still no
sign of Eric.
In the midst of the spteech-making there
come sedately trotting along the highway
a boy and a girl. They are the last of a
string of relay-runners who have brought a
message to Honest Jack from the Exact
Centre of the State. The boy unwinds the
message, which is a hefty screed about a
square yard in area, and reads it to Jack
in a determined tone of voice. Jack, who
seems in a strangely gentle mood this day,
gives the messengers a paternal blessing and
tells 'em to fear God and love their country.
Their little moment of glory over, the mes-
sengers seem at a loss where to go or what
to do. The girl settles that. Taking the
boy’s hand she leads him out of the fairway
to a seat on one of the stands, where they
can comfortably watch the rest of the show.
A solitary aeroplane appears from the
blue and hovers lower and lower. It is black.
Does it contain Eric? It comes so low that
its name can be plainly seen — Southern
Cross.” Everyone cheers. No knavish tricks
need be feared from that quarter.
Now comes the actual opening. But as
Honest Jack and his entourage of notables
draw near to the white ribbon, to snip it
with a pair of golden scissors, there is a
flurry and a scurry. A woman screams.
Policemen rush hither and thither. A sword
flashes in the sunlight. One of Eric’s emis-
saries has galloped up to the ribbon on his
charger and hacked it in twain. H'e is hustled
“His great jowl protruded in the attitude of
a bull."
off his horse and into the cooler. The ribbon
is rejoined with seccotine. Honest Jack
cuts it.
Cannons commence to pop. Aeroplanes
swoop from the sky. Balloons advertising
various sorts of booze ascend. The Bridge
is open. Eric, in his suburban home, is
telling a newspaper reporter how he pre-
vented Honest Jack from opening the Bridge.
The play ends with a pageant. Along the
plateau pass hundreds of boy scouts, who
have never been taught how to march and
slump along anyhow. The gawky drum-
major of one squad industriously chews. A
squad of V.C.’s in tin hats. They know how
to march. A company of aboriginals strolls
merrily along. This delegation, representa-
tives of the original owners of the Continent
with Boundless Natural Resources, has fallen
victim to a costumier, whose idea of Binghi’s
festal attire is a skin discreetly draped from
armpits to knees and a sketchy dappling of
white paint. Pass on, black brothers! You
feared many terrible things in this land, but
you never had to dodge bailiffs. Here’s a
plump little lad on a plump little pony—
Leonard Gwyther, who rode all the way from
Gippsland or Switzerland or somewhere to
Be With Us on this Great Occasion. And
here, striding along as if they didn’t give a
damn for anyone, are. a hundred ordinary
blokes. They are in this galley because they
helped to build the Bridge, and that seems
a pretty good reason why they should pro-
cesh.
Scottish pipers in battle array. A military
band that jauntily plays “A Life on the
Rolling Deep,” as a prelude to its passage
across the Bridge. A high bicycle. Ancient
coaches, including a veritable Cobb. Sym-
bolical floats. A platoon of girls with figures
Praxiteles would have delighted to immor-
talise in marble, marching with the Prus-
sian goose-step. One or two samples of Sydney
beach life-saving Apollos. M. Picard should
have made his statuary here! Daring
splashes of color in these floats, magnificent
under the noonday sun. Wool, wheat, the
cow products, the Dominions, and the States,
the town industries, the University, defence
—these things are splendidly symbolised. A
lot of artistry in this pageant. It is jumbled
up perhaps, with a lot that is neither artis-
tic nor relevant, but the leaven is there to
show that Sydney isn’t as far sunk in Philis-
tinism as some would have she is. Worse
processions passed along the Appian Way,
one may bet, even in Rome’s golden prime,
than the one with which Sydney first-footed
its Bridge. . , , , . ,
And now the captains and the kings depart
and the populace tries to depart but cannot,
because of the press. At last its loosens
itself, and, hot and dishevelled, but. smiling,
flows back into the streets of the city, that
Proud Jewel of the Pacific that looks a lot
better than it is. The sun still shines
brightly. The Bridge, yawning ever so
slightly, says “Thank the Lord, that's over.
“Galloped up to the ribbon on his charger
and hacked it in twain.”
But his trials aren’t quite over. He goes
to sleep again while a fleet of. stout mer-
chant ships passes underneath him, belching
brown smoke on his nice new paint, but he
wakes right up when the sun sinks and the
moon comes sailing up into a sky of amethyst
and every citizen residing within a radius
of 20 miles of Sydney decides that the best
place to watch the fireworks from is the
eastern footway. With a whiff of forethought
absent from most of the other official arrange-
ments of the day the authorities have decided
to keep vehicles off the Bridge. This is as
well, for when the eastern footway com-
mences to bulge and seems likely to split,
the human swarm flows over the fences and
fills railway tracks, motor speedway and
every other inch of space on the giant s deck.
A squad of very tired policemen is kept busy
chasing boys, who will climb up the girders
or up the many convenient stairways that
have been placed about the bridge to allow
the maintenance staff to keep an eye on ail
its joints.
The Harbor goes on a wild ]ag. Warships
are outlined in dotted lines of light, and
every craft in port is lit up from truck to
waterline. Twenty searchlights go mad
and dance like brolgas in a new sort of
aurora all over the firmament. Rockets m
prodigious quantities pepper the sky with
jewels and gold and make the moon, a
superfluity. Overhead a monoplane flits,
leaving a trail of fire, but visible itself only
when it cut the ray of a waving searchlight.
On the Bridge deck, despite Honest Jacks
signal victory over the dark forces of Eric,
Private Enterprise rears its envenomed head,
and Capitalists (in a small way) vend gor-
geous Certificates, signed in real handwrit-
ing by somebody or other, testifying to
the fact that the purchaser has that day
walked across the Bridge, And on this note,
“Eric in his suburban home telling a
reporter."
indicating that after all our to-morrows
shall be very much as our yesterdays, the
curtain descends.
The New Sydney Rep. Soc.’s Bridge Night
offering was “Naughty Ann” (author un-
named on the programme). Cary Maxon
(Ron Roberts), writer of sex novels and
philanderer, is perfectly understood by his
wife, Hildegarde (Alice Bolger), who sees
he doesn’t get into serious trouble. Cary
is pursued by Ann Hood (Lorraine
Smith), a gushing young thing of 19, whose
head is full of ideas about matrimony culled
from Cary’s writings. Ann is engaged to
Brian Cutler (George Carden), a lngbly
respectable young man, but she refuses to
become Mrs. Cutler until she has had ex-
periences.”* She proposes that _Cary shall
furnish the experiences. Vivian Letten
(Rena Lawrence), a divorcee, sets out to
win Brian. Hildegarde’s problem is to keep
Cary out of Ann’s clutches, and, as she is
fond of Ann and Brian, to save Brian from
Vivian. She achieves her purpose by throw-
ing Ann into Cary’s company when the
novelist is struggling with the plot of a
new novel and disinclined for love-making.
Also she stages a mock affair with Brian.
Except for a tendency of the players to over-
emphasise the risque passages, the acting
was fair. The same group will give a revival
of “Waterloo Bridge” on Easter Saturday.
* * *
The crowd that attended the Assembly
Hall, Melbourne, on Wednesday night heard
some delectable playing by the Lamberts.
Dad is such an excellent violinist that son
Raymond was hard put to it to reach
his standard in the pianoforte portions of
the Cesar Franck sonata, but if there was
any discrepancy between the two perform-
ances it was not sufficient to mar a fine
interpretation. Lambert, jun., brought the
entertainment to a close by taking a plunge
into some moderns, who were not so enthusi-
astically applauded as the ancients or semi-
moderns.
* *5 *
A deep rumble of superlatives from the
direction of the Firm’s publicity bureau in
Exhibition-street indicates that Noel Cow-
ard’s “Bitter Sweet” will be available at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday, and that it
will be a bonzer. There will be 160 players,
including Margery Hicklin, Herbert Browne,
Sydney Burchall and Salfo Arnav; the last-
named is Melbourne composer _ William
James’s wife. “The Chocolate Soldier” melts
away to-morrow.
# # ¥
After a brief application of “Hanky
Panky,” Melbourne Palace closed on Mon-
day. It will reopen on Easter Saturday with
“Laughing Eyes,” a songanprance show with
which Ernest Rolls hopes to reduce the holi-
day foot traffic in the city.
« ¥ *
Nellie Bramley, plucky and successful,
ends a long season at .Adelaide Royal with a
quick change from the woman-of-the-world in
“Scandalmongers” to the girlish Pollyanna.
“Lochinvar,” with Conservatorinm chorus
and ballet, is to have a week till Gladys
Moncrieff and “The Chocolate Soldier” come
in with Easter.
ffr
Adelaide Repertory finds its 800 sub-
scribers like short plays, and opened its new
season with four of them —Shaw, Barrie,
“Girls marching with the Prussian
goose-step.”
Molnar and a strange piece of mediseva.
Buffoonery, played heartily by 1 rank 1 art
and the rest for every laugh it was worth.
From a high level of acting in the other
trifles, Phyllis Simpson and Muriel Ralpn
perhaps scored most.
“L. de R.”: Hamilton Webber, the ele-
gant conductor of the State orchestra,
Melbourne, made the modern musical situa-
tion perfectly clear the other week. He
and his gallant band were billed to give
a turn entitled “Milestones of Music. It
started with a Bach fugue. Then came a
Beethoven minuet, then a bit of Schubert
and some Strauss, and the evolutionary ex-
position was concluded with a specimen ot
American jazz!
“D ”: A comedy which is being screened
in Sydney just now contains nearly all the
faults that are killing the talkies of Old Eng-
land, viz., (1) bad casting, (2) out-of-date
business, (3) long-winded dialogue. Syd-
ney Howard plays a drunk, and it is
the star part. He enters drunk, makes Keys
drunk (in this scene they repeat all the
nineteenth-century stuff that Tom M ails
and Ralph Lynn exploited in their last
drunk scene) and remains drunk to tne
end. The modern amusement-seeker simply
yawns through the drunk scenes that con-
vulsed the Victorians. Not that the modern
is any better morally than the ancient
far from it! —but the boredom is unmistak-
able. The younger generation isn t even
enthusiastic about the snappy drunk acts
screened now and then by Chaplin and
Laurel and Hardy; and there you have two
Englishmen and an American with something
like genius. “Almost a Divorce begins wi
an interminable squabble between Keys and
the lady who plays his wife—m Hollywood
four-fifths of it would have been cut out—
and the whole play is on similar tedious
lines. The Americans, in spite of many han-
dicaps, including an unpopular accent, are
still keeping miles ahead of the British in
the talkie field chiefly because they go to
infinite pains to find correct types,. because
their comic stuff, however crude, is up to
the minute, and because they realise, as the
Germans and Russians are beginning to, that
the less talk there is in a talkie the better.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
HER WAYS AND MEANS.
“Now we are married, darling, you mustn’t expect me to give up all my girlhood ways."
“Oh, but I don’t, dear. You can go on taking your dad’s allowance just as if nothing
had happened."
“D.J.”: Those Mangauui tourists who
were staggered to find they had been robbed
when they arrived in Sydney must have a
child-like capacity for wonder. I have made
many trips on liners, and rarely failed to
find' crooks on board. There are various
ways of identifying them; people who want:
to play cards for high stakes or to bet high
(about the ship’s run, etc.) or who show a
marked interest in jewels are nearly always
crooks. I once shared a cabin with one from
Port Said to London. My pearl pin, which
I never wore but sometimes displayed, fas-
cinated him from the first. It was a glori-
ous sight, large, pear-shaped, luminous. Be-
side it the other things in my dressing-case
looked shabby. Sure enough, when I un-
packed in London, a few hours after docking
at Tilbury, the pin was gone. I felt rather
relieved, as it had been a source of mild
embarrassment ever since I had drawn it
from a Lucky Dip (Positively Nothing
Worth Less than 55.) at a Christmas party.
My cabin-mate’s preoccupation had diverted
his attention from my socks, ties and other
genuine valuables which would have been
hard to check at the last moment.
* * Ms s's
“P.0.M.C.”: A novel plea for what the
Law calls “extenuating circumstances” was
heard in an assault case tried in a
Queensland police court. Complainant said
the injuries he had received had incapacitated
him for over a fortnight. Whereupon the
accused cut in hotly, “Yes, but he was unem-
ployed, anyway!”
M: * =!•- Ms
“T.P.”: A case of infantile paralysis w T as
diagnosed the other day at Dimboola (Vic.),
and the doctor sent an urgent ’phone mes-
sage to Melbourne for serum. Two hours
later he walked out of the post office and
found the parcel dropped almost at his feet,
while from above an aviator waved a cheery
greeting. I can recall a time when it took
a friend of mine over a month to do the
same trip (225 miles). But then he was
carting stores per bullock-dray.
* * $ *
“Johannes”: Considered as a Christian
name John has surely never been approached
in popularity. With
slight alterations—Jan,
Jean, Hans, Juan, Ivan,
Giovanni and so on—it
is encountered in every
civilised nation. Even in
Ireland it would seem to
be as common as any-
where else. There are
three Seans in De
Valera’s Cabinet, and
Sean is John under the
faintest possible disguise.
Yet England has had but
one King John; possibly
it was because he was
such a rankly bad one
that the name fell out of
favor in royal circles.
And it is curious that of
the two (and only) Prince Johns of recent
times the first, the present king’s youngest
brother, lived only a day, and the second,
George V.’s youngest son, died in boyhood.
“Scrivener”: I take it that banks don’t
insist on cheque signatures being written in
ink; blood or any other liquid warranted
not to wear off has doubtless before now
been utilised in an emergency. But a story
used to be told in Westralian newspaper
offices of an even quainter substitute. It
was in the hectic days of Coolgardie, and
the accountant of a flourishing weekly, whose
occasional lapses were always condoned, had
embarked on a jag. Ordinarily it wouldn’t
have mattered much, but. on this occasion
liis signature was urgently needed to go
underneath the manager’s on the weekly
pay cheque, and a hunt was organised. After
visiting a dozen pubs, the manager ran
down the truant in the thirteenth. He was
sitting among the remains of the counter-
lunch with a tankard on each side of him
and a smile of dreamy contentment on his
face. The boss hurriedly borrowed a pen
and an ink-bottle from the office, deposited
them among the broken meats, produced the
cheque and begged the reveller to counter-
sign. He was perfectly willing, but, being
a trifle unsteady, he jabbed the pen into the
mustard-pot and laboriously indited his sig-
nature. Then, to dissipate any doubts of his
sobriety that might have existed, he solemnly
blotted the document with a lettuce-leaf and
handed it over with the air of a man whose
conscience is at rest. The teller looked a
trifle hard at the cheque, but finally O.lv.’d
it, as he probably would have done had it
been written in Worcester sauce. It was
rich-hued French mustard.
“Clarence Cafeteria"’: Women are sup-
posed to be on an equality with men nowa-
days, but what man would incur the risks
of martyrdom in the cause of fashion? There
have been two cases lately in Melbourne of
girls losing their hair and portion of their
scalps in the process of acquiring the latest
style in hairdressing. One lady had her
crowning glory triced up in the customary
manner and a switch put in her lap, so that
she could turn off the current if things got
too hot for her. Either she didn’t understand
the instructions or she was prepared to be
burned alive rather than forego seeing her
hair transformed into something God never
meant it to be. Anyhow, she let the opera-
tion go on until a fellow-victim detected a
smell of burning and called for assistance.
She is now condemned to be partially bald
for the rest of her existence. The second
victim stated in evidence that she didn’t
bother at the time about her burns because
an attendant told lier there was always some
WELL, SOMETHING OF THAT SORT.
“What are vowels, baby?”
“Things my daddy puts in the wireless, of course."
pain after treatment, but that she would soon
get used to it. She said the pain was “ter-
rible,” but stuck to it —in the spirit that
animated the Christian martyrs.
* * * $
H. Mercer: Surprising how careful an
author has to be. In “Marketing the Bridge” I
made a character say: “If you’d been a bit
late coming across the harbor this morning
you’d have seen them putting the finish on
the eighth south panel.” On the evening of
the day this appeared in The Bulletin a
stranger called at my flat, introduced him-
self, and informed me that I had made a
mistake: the eighth south panel was com-
pleted one afternoon between 4.30 and five
o’clock. He was certain of the time,
because, as the owner of a block of
flats with an outlook upon the bridge
he not only kept a daily watch upon the
construction, but jotted down the details of
each bit of progress in a diary. It cost my
corrector taxi-fare (the night being wet) to
put me right, but evidently he didn’t
grudge That expense in a good cause.
"Musk. Regs.”: A revolutionary experi-
ment in military rifles is reported from the
British War Office, which is issuing a new
rifle fitted with an aperture sight, the'first
to be issued to any army, though individual
snipers usually employ them. The open
sight fixed to the barrel has been replaced
by. a rear aperture sight behind the charger-
guide. This has two apertures. With the
leaf in the horizontal position, one aper-
ture is used for distances up to 400 yards.
For higher elevations the leaf is raised to
the vertical, when the other aperture is
operated on the Vernier scale by a fine
screw. The barrel is 7oz. heavier than
that of the present short rifle and is
tapered from the breech to the muzzle.
Only 2000 of the rifles have been pro-
duced to date, and one has arrived in
Australia for experiment and criticism. The
influence of the new idea on rapid fire,
which is such a feature of British military
musketry, will be interesting to watch'.
* * * *
“Binduli”: There is an old story of a
waybacker returning to his far-western
home after a visit to the Harbor City and
being asked by a mate, “Who keeps the
pub in Sydney now?” What recalls it
to me is a published letter from the father
of one of the English public-school boys who
recently had a fly round this country. Dad
pays a generous tribute to the kindness and
hospitality extended to his offspring and the
visitors generally by “our Colonial relatives
of all classes in Australia,” and remarks
appreciatively that high and low united to
give them a good time. He concludes: “One
of the most enjoyable parts of the trip, so
far as my son was concerned, was when he
stayed with the local blacksmith and his
family, I think in Kalgoorlie.” Ivalgoorlie
can surely never have known an unkinder
cut than this.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: An incident suggestive
of Solomon’s allegedly wise decision about
the ownership of the baby is reported from
a small town near Naples (Italy). Signora
Jones was left a widow, and a question arose
whether Signora Brown had paid Signor
.Tones the money she owed him, if any,
before he passed away. It was decided, at
whose instigation doesn’t appear, that Sig-
nora Brown should take a solemn oath
before the Cross in church that she owed
nothing to Jones’s ghost. But just as pro-
ceedings commenced the Cross started to
fall m large pieces on the witness, and it
seemed as if the roof might follow, and the
congregation began to yell “Liar" and “Per-
jurer,” and Signora Brown ran in terror
f° r . her life, as any nervous female might.
This is supposed to have been conclusive;
but still the sacred emblem may have been
interfered with, either by Signora Smith, who
perhaps had a money greed, or by someone
who wanted the crucifix promoted to be a
miracle-working emblem for mercenary rea-
sons. Again it may have been an accident,
or the congregation may have rushed to the
wrong conclusion. The Cross may have
really meant to say that Signora "Brown
was absolutely honest in the matter, but the
throng organised itself into a lynching party
without waiting to hear it out.
* ❖ ❖
“Ootacarra” : Without questioning Nicholas
Lockyer’s title to speak with special autho-
rity about the first settlement in West-
ralia I should like to point out that
the “inaccuracies” which he corrects
(B. 16/3/’32) have been for years with-
in the covers of reference books. The
“Australian Encyclopaedia” (vol. 11, p. 6541
says that “Major Lockyer left Sydney in
November, 1826, with a detachment of troops
and convicts to form a penal establishment
at King George’s Sound” ; it adds that the
party arrived on Christmas Day and that
the following morning the settlement was
established. Also that “in 1831 the convicts
were withdrawn.” This account is followed
in Dr. J. S. Battye’s “Western Australia”
(1924) ; Battye further gives as one of the
causes for the abandonment of the settle-
ment a condition laid down by the Imperial
Government, in 1828, that no convicts were
to be sent to the proposed Swan River settle-
ment, with the consequence that “those who
entered upon the scheme did not relish the
presence of a convict establishment within
the borders of the territory.” If most of
these statements are wrong it is obviously
high' time they were eliminated from the
reference books.
“Ichabod”: What changes time is bring-
ing in the British Navy! It was stated
publicly in London the other day that a
large proportion of the modern bluejackets
prefer to take the money allowance in lien
of the daily rum issue, and to spend the
money so acquired on extra tea! Shades of
the great Benbow, who is said to have intro-
duced the West Indian stimulant into the
service, and of Admiral Vernon (“Old
Grog”), whose nickname still lives! My
dad, wdio served in the Mediterranean just
after the Crimean War, once assured me
that the stoppage of the rum issue was far
more dreaded by the seamen of those days
than the “dozen at the grating” that was
the frequent lot of many of them.
❖ * * *
“Oxmead” : “You can no more rhyme with
‘months’ than you can with ‘orange,’” pro-
nounced a Bulletin bard nearly 40 years
ago (“As We Said Before,” 9/3/’32), and
I don’t know that anyone has managed it
yet. Barham or Browming or even Gilbert
might haye put up some sort of a show,
though. Certainly these unrhymeable words
are a sore trial at times. I remember a
London weekly offering a prize a great many
years ago to the most successful harnesser-
up of a dozen refractory words —“month”
and “orange” were both among them, as
well as “silver” and “kiln.” Competitors
struggled bravely, exhuming freak coinages
like Thackeray’s “Onety-Oneth” Regiment,
but without conspicuous success. Swinburne
regarded it as one of the reproaches of the
English language that there was no rhyme
with “babe,” with the exception of “astro-
labe,” which is rather worse than none,
although there has arisen these last few
years an Australian front-rank cricketer
whose name might be utilised at a pinch.
My own opinion is that verse suffers more
because there is really nothing that satis-
factorily clicks with “woman” at the end of
a line. Many desperate attempts have been
made. I recall a Bulletin bard, who dis-
liked doing his own mending and patching,
but referred to it as a bitter necessity:—
When a man has got no woman
And his pants won’t keep the gloom in.
Bret Ilarte made a trifle better fist of it
with his
Things is various and human,
And that man ain’t born of woman
Who has got enough acumen
To say what’s another’s aims.
But the best is pretty bad, and there is no
known means of remedying it.
A JUDICIAL APPEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Justice James, summing up in a charge of
shooting with intent to murder, said that such
crimes were becoming far too frequent in Sydney.
He had already appealed, and he appealed again, to
these warring sections of the community to drop the
revolver business and take to their fists.”
Attend! Take heed! You modern varia-
tions
Of olden Montagues and Capulets.
Your methods of adjusting altercations
Provoke his Honor’s vehement regrets.
You grim protagonists of warring bunches,
Leaders of underworld battalions.
Why don’t you specialise in packing punches
Instead of packing guns?
Fight, if you must, like knights who took
the lists for
Their loves and loyalties of long ago ;
But what the deuce did Nature give you fists
for
Except to wallop a refractory foe?
Put up your dooks and sheathe the auto-
matic !
Perils enough the poor pedestrian dares
Apart from lead, propelled with aim erratic,
In crowded thoroughfares.
Feudists of Surry Hills, Maroubra brawlers,
As starkly bellicose as springtime bucks,
Discard your barkers and put up your
maulers!
Learn that for duels nothing beats the
“knucks.”
The good old ring is chivalry’s survival.
Guns may be deadlier, but gents, with
guts
Can put as sound a kibosh on a rival
With smashing uppercuts.
You urban warriors who pursue vendettas
With butchers’ knives and pistols for your
aids,
Or fight for Helens and for Henriettas
With ugly bottles and w ’*:h razor blades,
Hark to the wisdom from trn> fount judicial!
What use for mazzards to be slashed or
cleft
When treatment equally as beneficial
Lurks in a dirty left ?
Attend, you gangsters and you bash-pur-
veyors !
Amend your methods and revise your
ways.
Fight, if you must, like Heenan did and
Sayers,
Or Mace and King, in old Victorian days.
And if ’neath Queensberry rules you strip
for action,
And hurl into the fistic fray your frames,
’Twill mean an extra glow of satisfaction
For Mr. Justice James.
N.s.w.
T. THE IL


“Elgar”: The scarcity of fruit and the
plentifulness of raiders are worrying
orchardists round Melbourne. Apples are
so valuable that it pays to plant a boy on
the fence on Sunday with a gun, which he
lets off to discourage imaginary sparrows
and suspicious-looking motorists and. cyclists.
But the marauders aren’t all hefty males.
A Hurstbridge grower caught a party of
girls sampling his apples the other morning.
The delinquents, who fled hurriedly, Wbre
pullovers and knickers, well adapted for
blackberrying and roaming the bush, but
not so good when an exasperated orchardist
was hot on their heels with a whip. One
of the fugitives, a large, fleshy girl,
made heavy going, stumbled just as she was
reaching the fence, and fell, face downwards.
The punishment she received hurt a bit, but
not nearly as much as the laughter of her
unfeeling mates outside the fence, or the
fact that a nice young man carefully placed
an extra cushion for her when sitting on
the verandah that evening.
“Underworld King”: A cable accused Al
Capone of weeping at the news of the kid-
napping of the Lindbergh baby. "It is
the most outrageous thing I ever heard
of,” he sobbed, according to Sydney “D.T.”
The reporters have got it wrong as usual. If
Al did weep it was probably over, the wit-
less moderation of the kidnappers in asking
for only £lO,OOO. Consider the position.
Mrs. Lindbergh, as sole, heiress of Dwight
Morrow, has an income which was recently
estimated at £150,000 a year; and Lindy, as
the U.S.A.’s answer to the Prince of Wales,
earns a President’s salary. To such people
£lO,OOO means less than a fiver does to the
average parent. The worst was over from
the kidnappers’ standpoint when Capone w r as
reduced to tears; they had the kid and
knew they were unknown. Neither the
Lindberghs nor the public could have been
rendered more indignant if £500,000 had been
demanded. That is about the sum Capone
would have named, and, no doubt, got if he
had had the luck to capture Lindbergh, jun.
It must be a bitter reflection for him that
racketeering is getting into the heads of
unimaginative pettifoggers.
“Indef”: Some papers have, referred to
the abduction of Charley Ross in the ’seven-
TWO WAYS OF LOOKING AT IT.
“His wife is very devoted to him. She says nothing would make her leave him.”
“Yes, I think it would make me, too.”
ties (B. 16/3/’32) as the classic case of
kidnapping in the U.S.A.; in one sense it
was memorable because of the utter and
absolute disappearance of the victim when
the kidnappers’ terms —they only asked for
20.000 dollars in those days—were not com-
plied with. Charley was the infant child of
wealthy parents in Philadelphia, and it was
generally supposed that he had heen spirited
away by a couple of accomplished New York
burglars. It is quite possible that he was
murdered when the ransom was refused and
the police set upon the abductors’ tracks,
but the more favored theory was that the
burglars themselves were killed in a fight
with the police before this particular crime
could be sheeted home to them, and that the
waif survived in some dingy surroundings,
brought up by those who hadn’t the slight-
est idea of his identity and who probably
thought, if they thought about it at all, that
he was the progeny of one or other of the
deceased criminals. Hence the numerous
claims that were made by the time that
Charley, if he had lived, might have grown
up. But his real fate is never likely to be
ascertained.
❖
“Uramao”: A glad-rag emporium in Wel-
lington (M.L.) had announced a tremendous
bargain sale, and the usual queue of eager
women awaited the opening of the door.
Hobbling along on a pair of
crutches came one who looked
disconsolately at the lengthy
string in front of her. A few
pitying comments were heard,
and eventually one woman well
up in the line beckoned to the
cripple to take her place. The
example was followed by others
till the crutches were at the
very door. When it opened,
down they went, having served
their purpose, and a particu-
larly vigorous-looking bargain-
hunter hurled herself into the
fray.
“X.S.”: Some Melbourne
suburbanites have tender sus-
ceptibilities. Recently the Haw-
thorn Council was petitioned to
rename Scuffam’s-lane. Asked
if Scuffam-street would satisfy
them the dwellers in the thor-
oughfare said no; it was Scuf-
fam they objected to. Investi-
gation into the etymology of the
word revealed that Scuft'am had
been a perfectly reputable citi-
zen. He was on the first roads
board and ran horse cabs before
there were trams or railways.
Further inquiry elicited that residents had
been wounded by sundry ribald persons turn-
ing “Scuffam’s” into “Scuffles.’’ The street
now glories in the name of Simpson-place.
It would be interesting to know how long a
name like Rotten-row would survive m
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Double Gloucester”: The ban on im-
ported luxuries seems to have had a
stimulating effect in some directions; I
tasted the other day some Australian
Gruyfere which had all the quality of the
Swiss product, save for the absence of holes.
Possibly, if there is demand enough, the
local manufacturer may yet be enabled to
place something indistinguishable from
“fine ripe old Stilton” on the market, with
the aid of port wine and the decaying pro-
cesses of Nature, and even to experiment
in the direction of Gorgonzola and similar
delicacies for epicurean jialates. But, while
the Englishman may prefer his game a trine
high, I fancy that the liking for really
rotten cheese is more characteristic of the
Southern European. I was once on a
steamer in an African port, where the cheese
served in the dining saloon at last arrived
at a stage when even the Scotch skipper
sniffed at it in hostile mood. “Take that
away and throw it overboard,” he finally
directed the steward. The man left on his
hygienic mission but was intercepted on his
wav to the side bv a Portuguese stevedore,
who, divining his intention, rushed to save
the doomed article. “You wouldn’t throw
that away?” he demanded, rapturously in-
haling the tainted atmosphere ; then, to the
Old Man, who had followed the steward on
deck, “Can I have it?” The skipper
assented, merely stipulating that it be
immediately removed. I can still see that
Dago skipping delightedly down the gang-
way, clutching his prize as if it were a long-
lost sweetheart.
' * * * *
“Lao-dah”: Chinese honesty is a matter
of tradition (P». 16/3/’32), and is rooted
in Celestial history. The dishonesty of
Judges, the brutality of the laws and the
uncomfortableness of prison cells without
sanitary conveniences, where persons waiting
trial were liable to be forgotten, caused mer-
chants to eschew legal processes wherever
possible. The only way business could be
conducted in such circumstances was on a
basis of mutual trust. A written document
was worthless, and many a contract run-
MORE CAR TROUBLES.
SHIRE PRESIDENT: “Mr. Smythe will not be here to-day. He has had trouble with
his car.”
COUNCILLOR COCKSPUR: “Mechanical or economic?”
ning into thousands of dollars has been
observed merely on spoken terms. Another
feature that made for honesty was the prac-
tice of holding a guild responsible for its
members and a father for his son. Now
that Western systems of legality have come
into vogue the old habit is falling more and
more into disuse, and Celestial Cent. Ones
argue over points of law with all the subtlety
and twice the loquacity of their Western
brethren. The institution of the Chinese
New Year was another device for keeping
people honest. At this time every Chinaman
is supposed to pay his debts, and the air
becomes full of recriminations and bank-
ruptcies. If the Chinese ever succeed in
getting a Government as little prone to
bribery as Britain’s, Judges as impartial, and
a legal system as complicated as our own, I
have no 'doubt that Ah Sin’s “honesty” will
become merely conventional, like that of
the West.
* * * *
“L.C.M.”: A recent paragraph told of a
Sydney clergyman who was offered some
dole tickets as his fee for uniting two young
persons Cfhe possessors of the same) in holy
matrimony. There is at least one
town in Australia where couples
are taking each other for better or
worse to secure more sustenance
money, 14s. a week being the allow-
ance for a married pair against a
mere 4s. 9d. or less for single
persons. “Many couples are now
presenting themselves to be mar-
ried without possessing any
worldly goods at all,” Canon Col-
lick, of Fremantle (W.A.), told a
press representative the other day,
“simply to obtain the extra susten-
ance money.” The worthy cleric
added that out of about 80 couples
he married last year eight were
unable to provide even wedding
rings, and that half of the people
he had married this year were un-
able to offer any fee at all; “in
such cases I performed the cere-
mony free of charge.” Obviously, if
there were union rules for persons
licensed to perform the marriage
ceremony, Mr. Collide would have
been in trouble before this, although
it is unlikely that such a consid-
eration would worry him. Still,
this reckless assumption of con-
jugal responsibilities in some quarters seems
to have been offset by increased caution in
others; the “West Australian” notes that
there were nearly 500 fewer marriages in
the State in 1031 than hr 1930.
« * * *
“Tinto”: Madeira, after many years of
neglect, is again finding favor in British
eyes as a health resort. In Georgian and
early Victorian days it was the only place
for people “going into a decline,” a roman-
tic phrase for tuberculosis, and many a
novelist would feature one of his female
characters fading away in an atmosphere of
prunes and prisms on Madeira. Bong before
that its characteristic wine, with its deli-
cate flavor and delicious bouquet, outnvalled
even port and claret, among English folk at
least. To be perfect, the wine had to he
shipped from Madeira to India and then
back to Liverpool or London. The vine-
yards were destroyed by disease, in the 1850 s
but were replanted, and the wine is said to
be as good as ever. Nevertheless, it has
slowly gone out of fashion.
* * * *
“E.W.L.”: War-time interpreters were a
mixed lot. in Siberia in 1919 I came across
a youth who spoke such excellent English,
complete with topical slang ana idiom, that I
asked him what he was doing as a White
conscript at 30 roubles per month. It
turned out that he was the son of a Jewish
military-clothing contractor in London. The
“old man” had sent him to Russia to
chase business with the Russian armies.
When the civil war came he was conscripted,
despite his protests. I interested the Rail-
way Mission (British and American experts)
in his case, and they had him transferred as
an interpreter at 200 roubles a day! He
lasted about a fortnight, being detected sell-
ing stores and clothing, including his own
chiefs sheepskin coat, to the Chinese. So
back he went to the army again, and he is
probably a Commissar by now. When hand-
ling the Armenian-Assyrians with “Dunster-
force” in n.-w. Persia during 1918 we had
an interpreter who had been to Pittsburg.
My immediate chief, a choleric British officer,
resented his idioms, and when one morning
he reported that “Dere is a guy outside
kicking,” the O.C. demanded to know who
was kicking whom and what the he
was kicking him for. Our interpreter
explained tolerantly that “De guy” was “just
kicking.” A painful scene ensued, the
O.C. informing the interpreter that he
wouldn’t tolerate any more of his “infernal
American gibberish.” The linguist departed
hurriedly, limping. I was ordered to elucidate
the “kicking” mystery, and going outside I
found a local sheik waiting with a complaint
about the depredations of our soldiery.
At an official Chinese dinner in Hong-
kong in 1919. the interpreter, a Chinaman,
turned out to have been horn and reared in
Surry Hills. H'e became quite friendly when he
realised that I was a “fellow Australia,” but
regretted that I was a Victorian. “'Ow
abaht the Yarrer?” was his parting remark.
*J* v
“F.1.A.T.”: More than half Victoria’s
7000-and-odd car accidents last year were
caused, directly or indirectly, by motor-bikes,
according to a traffic-cop friend of mine.
Over 200 were listed as “directly due to
cyclists’ negligence,” 700 to “pedestrians’
negligence,” 280 to “skids” and others to
faulty brakes and steering gear. Three times
out of four it is a motor-bike that hits a
negligent, deaf or blind pedestrian, and push-
bikes, which are equally badly handled in
nearly all cases, also cause a lot of casual-
ties. The pedestrian steps off a footpath,
or tries to cross a road, without seeing the
projectile which is hurtling in his direction,
and he awakes, if he awakes again, in hospi-
tal with the cyclist, and perhaps the latter s
pillion-riding lady friend. Motor-bikes, though
not numerous, cause more skids than all the
cars put together. When motor-bikists whiz
round corners or across intersections, it is
a toss-up whether they cause their own
vehicles or staidly-driven cars or taxis to skid.
Under Victoria’s new Motor-car Act regula-
tions it is an offence punishable with a heavy
fine to drive a car or cycle with defective
brakes or steering gear. This won’t do any-
thing to decrease the State’s tally of about
a death a day. The more efficient an engine
is the faster it is driven, and it is speed
that slays and maims the women, children
and others who aren’t either exceptionally
sprightly or watchful. A speed limit, rigidly
enforced in the populated areas, is tjie only
cure. It would cause a good many motor-
bikists who worship speed to Turn in then-
licenses, but it would save a lot of lives.
, * * * *
“Vicar”: “Yeh, by Stripes I wuz stiff,”
said Burler, as he shifted his cap and spat
viciously into the harbor. “It wuz mo first
attempt at riinnin’ a boxin joint, an’ 1 picked
on the Nookanbah show as a good possie.
The lads I got to put up the stousli were
unemployed coves, like meself, but I
reckoned* they was honest. 1 managed to
get the loan of a marquee and some boxing
gloves, and as fur as the boding went we
didn’t do bad —enough to pay exes, and see
us to the next show town. You know, en-
couragin’. It'd a bin all right except fur a
John Hop’s way of asking the time. H'e
hadn’t a watch, and he wanted to see
whether the bloke runnin’ the publican’s
booth was goin’ over his time —it being
somewhere after six o’clock. The John
comes up to the bar where me and me boys
are having a hard-earned pot. Pickin
out Bluey, he sez, ‘l’m lookin’ for some-
body with a watch,’ and strike me blind if
me whole team ain’t got a cuppler watches
each and parts up with ’em like lambs.
Er course, he arrests the, lot and then
searches me. Well, I ain’t never come at
the light-fingered stuff and he cudden’t fit me
to ennything. Funny, ain’t it, how simple
some of these smarties are. They wanted
me to hail ’em out —but I sed that fellers
that couldn’t properly understand a John’s
plain question about a watch deserved all
that was coming to them. Three months
apiece it was. and now I’m looking for three
honest boxers.”
VILLANELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you recall that Easter Day
When all the world was green and gold,
When life had not a touch of grey *
All dewy green the forest lay. . ~
Brown waters sang what life might hold.
Do you recall that Easter Day i
Earth’s sordid things seemed far away.
The world was ours to make and mould,
When life had not a touch of grey.
We watched the glittering array
Of future years in light untold.
Do you recall that Easter Day:
Oh, time and space no hand can stay,
But still I kept my dreams of old
When life had not a touch of grey.
For memory lives uncontrolled,
No power can dim or make it cold.
Do you recall that Easter Day
When life had not a touch of grey?
N.S.W.
N. A. EVANS.


1U
u
QC
ill
(/)
Oj
DC
lLi
H
O
M
ë
CANADIAN PACIFIC MANAGEMENT ON
TRAINS, STEAMERS, AND AT HOTELS.
ANADIAN PACIFIC service covers
everything which means so much to
the traveller absolute comfort free-
dom from worry and personal service
that is world-renowned. It includes
luxury trains, hotels at all cities and
resorts in Canada, and the famous
“Empress” and “Duchess” Ships of the
Atlantic. For an enjoyable and carefree
journey to England, travel Canadian
Pacific. Write for literature and details.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
9/31-2
CANADIAN 14(1 lit
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
See Niagara Falls and
Great Lakes, via C.P.R.
Zlhe Wo I'ld's Greatest Grave/System
TAKE STOCK
Isn’t a periodical stocktaking of your private income and
expenditure as necessary to your success as the similar action
you regard as imperative in your business?
The difference between your personal expenses and your
income is your personal profit, and calls for the same wise
planning as must be given to a business.
Take stock now, thus early in the year, of your assets and
income, and of your certain and possible expenses. It will
enable you to spend wisely as well as to save wisely, and the
result should be a healthy Savings Bank balance.
tamomaltl) Savings! ank of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Governor-General Isaacs sent an inspiring
message to the Vic. A.N.A. conference at Ben-
digo, recalling that he was one of the A.N.A.’s
guests in the same city in March, 1898, when
the draft of the Commonwealth Constitution
was endorsed. This was the occasion when
Alfred Deakin delivered his memorable
oration in favor of Australian unity. A
year later, when the same draft had been
amended by the Premiers’ Conference in
1899, the future G.-G. himself proved one
of Abe foremost platform advocates of Fed-
eration.
T. 11. Kelly, who as chairman of directors
of the P. T. Co. handed over the Archibald
Memorial to the city of Sydney last week,
has a better right to pontificate about art
in Australia than most local business mag-
nates. He is a distinguished violinist; his
chamber concerts have been a feature of
Sydney’s artistic life for a quarter of a cen-
tury. He was one of the first to sound the
praises of Australian wines, and he gave
Norman Carter a commission to paint Mrs.
Kelly (who was Ethel Knight-Mollison, the
actress) and their children when the artist
was beginning his career. T. 11. Kelly was
educated at Eton and Oxford, and has added
greatly to the fortune his father, “Tin”
Kelly, left him.
Sam Hordern having followed the late
Alfred Meeks in the chair oJ the A.M.P.,
Alec Jobson has been appointed vice-chair-
man. As a youngster Jobson -worked for the
A.M.P., and learned the actuary’s business
under David Garment. When the New York
Equitable came to Australia and built what
were then regarded as office palaces in two
cities, Jobson was inveigled into the service.
But before many years the U.S.A. law was
altered and a maximum average expense rate
for new insurance business was fixed; and
as Australian expenses had always been
high, the co, decided to withdraw from this
territory. So Jobson, being at a loose end,
put up a brass plate of his own, and pre-
sently, choosing between the offer of a post
on the “Wild Cat” staff of The Bulletin
and a chase in Europe after “the Page mil-
lions,” chose the foreign adventure. It did
him good, even if the millions were a myth,
and he returned to Sydney to build up a
busy practice.
The Associated Chambers of Commerce
have been making their annual talk in Syd-
ney, and J. M. Paxton was still to the
front. No shipping man in Australia can
remember when he wasn’t, even though he
was well over 30 before he came this way
from Belfast. He was chairman of the ship-
ping committee of the Sydney Chamber from
J. M. PAXTON, doyen of the Chambers
of Commerce.
1899 to 1926 and president of the Associated
Chambers for years and years. He takes
a less active part in routine these days, but
is still a vice-chairman of the Chamber.
The English “Review of Reviews,” founded
by W. T. Stead, has been discussing
“Modern Caricaturists,” and has just de-
voted seven pages to “The Australian
School.” After dealing with May, Lindsay,
‘‘Hop,” Low, Vicent and Will Dyson, the
"Review” considers the modern group, and
gives Scorfield a very high place among the
Empire’s draughtsmen. “He is both a ver-
satile and prolific artist,” it says, “with a
light touch for most occasions, but able to
rise nobly when serious events demand it.
‘Breaking Through,’ published when
Britain set up its. national Government and
resolved to face its sea of troubles in the
old spirit, is a cartoon in the great tradi-
tion, entirely worthy of The Bulletin’s
past.”
Charles John
Cerutty, the Audi-
tor-General, who
has to certify to
the Commonwealth
Government as to
the amount owing
by a State Govern-
ment before his
employers can pro-
ceed to put the
bailiffs in, was
trained for his pre-
sent job in the Vic.
Treasury; he left
that to join the
Commonwealth as
sub-accountant with
its first batch of
appointees. He was
born at Sale, in
the colony which
he first served, 62
years ago. Queens-
landers say he
would have differ-
ent ideas about the
sugar industry if
he had been born
and brought up
1500 miles further
north.
Langdon Bony-
thon and John
Quick, both knights,
both Cornishmen,
might hold a com-
petition. Bonython,
born in ’4B, can
look in at the
Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” office, which
he joined about
C. J. CERUTTY,
Commonwealth
Auditor-General.
68 years ago. Quick, born four years
later, probably got to work three or
four years earlier; and when he was
at Bendigo the other day, talking to the
A. N. A. Conference about Federation, he
might have looked in on the “Evening News”
office, which he probably joined about the
same time as the other youngster was doing
his first job at Adelaide. But Quick didn’t
have the same ambitions as Bonython. One
went from journalism to law r and from law
to politics, and for 50 years tried to mix
them, and found, like thousands of others,
that it won’t work. The other stuck to
journalism, and though he made a belated
entry into Parliament, it was not until he
was nice and comfortably settled as sole
proprietor of the “Advertiser.”
Fifty years ago the two bright lights in
Sydney Methodist pulpits were Curnow and
Kelynack. Curnow was appointed editor of
the “S. M. Herald”: Dr. Kelynack ended up
as president of Newington College. Though
that was 41 years ago his widow has only
just died. She was a daughter of J. R.
Houlding, who used to write popular verse
as “Old Boomerang.” Dr. Kelynack was
probably the first Australian who ever went
to America on a begging expedition: he did
it for Newington, then in its cradle.
William Noah Hedges leaves Westralia
now and again to take a hand in indus-
trial conclaves; the annual conference of
Australian Chambers of Commerce saw and
heard him in Sydney last week. Hedges
came out from England in the ’eighties, con-
tracted for some big public works for the
S. Aus. and Westralian Governments, and
then became the head of a syndicate that
ran light railways from Kalgoorlie, and
struck something as good as any goldmine
by supplying the Golden Mile furnaces with
most of their fuel. After that he turned
to wheat-growing, and his holding near
Bruce Rock is the show-place of the State
for those who want to see what can be
done with unlimited optimism and up-to-
date machinery. He sat as M.H.R. for the
Fremantle division from 1906 to 1913.
A h*st of long-distance servants of the
Sydney Ferries will have cause to rue the
opening of the Bridge, though a few of the
veteran skippers, like Arthur Graham, Joe
Roper and Joe Maddison, did not wait for
the end. Charlie Thompson, leading hand in
the Ferry Co.> yard, has had 45 years’
service. Captain Farrell has steered his craft
for 36 years and Captain Langford for 35.
Of the rest of the skippers, Gurdis, Martin,
Dohrn, Gascoyne, Lang, Poole. Ray and
Alf Schultz and Pearce, the youngest has
been in the service for 24 years.
John Waters Kirwan, the knight-presi-
dent of the Westralian Leg. Council, who
was recently responsible for a handy little
pamphlet reviewing the history of that body
for a century, has put up some records of
his own as a politician. Kirwan, then
editor of the “Kalgoorlie Miner,” won a seat
in the first House of Reps, in 1901, was dis-
possessed of it three years later, climbed
into the State’s Upper Chamber in 1908 and
has stayed there ever since, attaining to
his present position when Walter Kingsmill,
now president of the Senate, was moved on
by his Perth constituents. All his Parlia-
mentary life he has been a battler for
the goldfields, so much so that he always
managed to wear down Labor hostility at
election-time, even when it was at its hot-
test during the Conscription period. One
of the fiercest critics of Forrest and the
old Groperland traditions in pre-Federation
days, he has mellowed and become more
diplomatic with advancing years.
The versatile Grenfell Price, of Adelaide,
is laying aside his headship of St. Mark’s
College to visit the U.S.A. The influence of
geography and climate on history has always
been his pet subject—it recently brought him
a D.Litt., unique so far, of Adelaide Uni-
versity ; and he has an idea that conference
with American professors may help him to
solve the causes of the continued troubles in
our N.T.
A. J. Villiers, the Tasmanian journalist
who scored on the world’s screens with
"Windjammer,” is off again for local color —
this time in the barque Palma, which is
bound from Melbourne for the Cold Land via
Cape Horn. Villiers is a ’foremast hand
of long experience. He took to the sea when
he was 15 after his father, a poet whom Mel-
bourne has forgotten, died in 1918. When
his ship called in at Hobart three years later
he took a shore job on the “Mercury.” His
next mouthful of salt was with a Norwegian
whaler in the Antarctic. After writing a
book on that experience he signed on with
the Herzogin Cecilie for England. His big
chance came with his trip around the Horn
in the Finnish full-rigged ship Grace Har-
war. He and Ronald Walker, another Tas-
manian journalist, intended to make a talkie,
but Walker was killed and Villiers finished
the job single-handed. He has written three
novels and several books on seafaring. He
is a descendant of George Villiers, Duke of
Buckingham.
Dr. Bryan Cohen, son of H. 1., one of the
legal lights of Vic. Uppish House, has gone
to London to acquire an F.R.C.S. To keep
his hand in during the voyage of the Strath-
naver he will be assistant surgeon.
Dr. Leonard Cockayne, Maoriland’s leading
botanist, got his honorary Ph.D. from Munich
Uni. 30 years ago for profound researches,
and he has been an F.R.S. since 1912. He
is honorary botanist to the M.L. State Forest
Service, and has conducted immensely
valuable experiments with pasture grasses.
At 77 his energy and zeal are as prodigious
as ever. When he is not at work in the
laboratory or in the field he is writing
papers for learned societies or popular
articles for the newspapers. A native of
Derbyshire, he migrated to Australia at the
Dr. COCKAYNE,
Maoriland’s great horticulturist.
age of 24, and after a couple of years as
a schoolteacher on this side of the Tasman,
crossed over and got another teaching job.
Then, having started a private experimental
station near Christchurch, he attracted the
attention of the Agriculture Department,
which found so much practical work for
liim that he had to work 16 or 20 hours a
day to keep up his self-imposed tally of
purely scientific achievement. A son, Alfred,
follows his dad’s footsteps, being Director
of the Fields Division of the M.L. Agricul-
ture Department.
G. 1. F. Mann, late director of the National
Gallery of N. S. Wales, now director of
the Macleod Gallery, is one of those rare
men with a wide knowledge of the business
as well as the technical side of art. As
G. V. F. MANN, Director of the Macleod
Gallery.
director of the National Gallery, he earned
the reputation of being a buyer of unusual
foresight, and he enriched the collection
with many purchases which, apart from being
a pleasure to the eye, have, turned out to be
wise investments. And he is Australian to
the finger-tips. His father, John Frederick
Mann, surveyor, was a member of Leich-
hardt’s 1845 expedition ; • on his mother’s
side lie is a grandson of Sir Thomas
Mitchell, explorer and in the long ago Sur-
veyor-General of N. S. Wales. Educated at
Sydney Grammar, Mr. Mann first practised as
an architect, and during this period Julian
Ashton, Tom Roberts and Arthur Streeton
furnished him with his art education. When
George Layton died in 1905 he was chosen
to be director of the National Gallery: two
of his own paintings are among its treasures.
The Macleod Gallery, which he now super-
vises, is on the sixth floor of the Bulletin
Building,
Some English reference books include
among their masses of tabulated informa-
tion lists of notable suicides throughout the
ages, beginning with Samson and Saul.
George Eastman, the aged New York million-
aire philanthropist, who went out by his own
hand the other day, might be held to deserve
a place in any such gallery. He had made
an immense fortune out of the Kodak camera
(which he patented in 1888) and other
scientific developments, and used it largely
for the benefit of humanity. It was esti-
mated that he had devoted not less than 15
millions to worthy purposes and charitable
endowments. But at 77 he suddenly grew
tired of life and shot himself very accu-
rately and neatly. He had “done his work.”
ho said, and left it at that.
J. A. Davie, dead in Adelaide at 68,
claimed to have driven the first steam engine
in Broken Hill, where he was with the Pro-
prietary mine from its earliest days. From
1911 he was on S.A. railways, and among
other jobs was foreman at the demolishing
of the two spidery viaducts that made the
Melbourne line a thrill to nervous travellers.
If John Finley, who died at Lidcombe
(Sydney) the other day, was in the habit
of taking his own medicines, he is a first-class
advt. for the profession he adorned. He
was a herbalist, and was 105 when he passed
away.
F. J. Derham, who passed out at Mal-
vern last week, was managing director of
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., Port Melbourne.
He was a good business man who enjoyed a
widepopularity among his employees as well
as his associates. He was a son of F. T.
Derham, P.M.G. in the Gillies Ministry
(1886-90), who represented Port Melbourne
before it became ultra-Labor.
Lance Skuthorpe, the old buckjump rider
and great horseman—and not a bad writer
either —won’t be at this year’s Sydney Show.
Rounding up horses in the bush near River-
stone his pony slipped, and Skuthorpe is
nursing a broken leg. But he more or less
set it and bound it up—chiefly with grass—
before he was shifted into Parramatta Hos-
pital. He is 62 these days.
Melbourne architect P. 11. Meldrum and
artist Harold Herbert spent a dreadful night
on the road in the Kiewa Valley recently,
when six inches of rain fell in 60 minutes
and a wall of water 20 feet high swept
through a neighboring township. The motor-
car in which the pair w T ere travelling was
their only refuge until the flood subsided. It
was a dirty trick for the Kiowa Valley to
play on Herbert, who has advertised its
charms to city art-lovers in scores of water-
colors.


COMMERCIAL TREE GROWING
-SY-
THE FORESTRY PULP 8 PAPER CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
A Sound Investment for the Individual A National Asset for Australia
1928 PLANTING. (Photo., Jan., 1932.)
I
Is
■■■ :
m
1930 PLANTING. (Photo., Jan., 1932.)
This Australian company has been organised
to build up in Australia an industry hitherto neglected
or only tentatively approached—the growing and
marketing of timber, particularly softwoods, in all
its aspects—and at the same time to supply the
public with a safe and profitable investment for its
savings.
All over the world to-day the question of affores-
tation is a burning one in every land. Cupidity in its
worst manifestation, the get-rich-<quick spirit, has
destroyed a great part of the world’s forests. Indif-
ference and lack of foresightedness have combined with
blundering stupidity to neglect any restoration of the
ravished forest lands. Late in the day many of the
countries responsible for the wanton waste of a great
national asset are awakening to the consciousness that
unless the dissipated forests are replaced by'artificial
means, the world is well within sight of disaster. The
phrase is by no means an exaggerated one. The
world has a very great hunger for timber, which is
increasing as its natural resources dwindle to vanish-
ing-point.
i I
mm
H
1927 PLANTING. (Photo., Jan., 1932.)
Compare growth with other photograph
taken one year earlier.
Many people imagine that the chief use of timber
is in connection with the building of houses, the manu-
facture of articles of furniture, in the making of
cricket bats and shafts for golf clubs. Never was
there a greater fallacy. To-day. timber in one form
or another is an essential base of many articles which
modernity considers imperative to its well-being. From
the silk stockings of the flapper to the great reels
that go roaring through the presses of our newspapers
there are 4500 different uses to which timber in
various guises is successfully applied. The letter
from your best girl, the curt intimation that your
income tax is due, and the cheque you receive for
your salary is, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred,
derived from some tree or grove of trees that once
grew green and fairly somewhere —and must be re-
placed if the world is not to go back to scribing its
records on bone or stone. Among the many other
uses to which wood in various degrees of preparation
is daily put, wrapping paper, celluloid, high explosive,
sausage casings and tannin extract are only a few.
Let us leave this aspect of the matter here and turn
to the purpose for which the Forestry Pulp and Paper
Company was inaugurated.
Afforestation, the planting and growing of timber
yielding trees of commercial value to replace those
destroyed by an unthinking commercialism, has for
long been a matter engaging the attention of far-
sighted folk. It has now become a matter of national
obligation that timber supplies, and especially those
of the invaluable softwoods, should not only be main-
tained but increased. Of the timber used throughout
the world 86 per cent, is coniferous or softwood,
the balance being made up by the hardwoods. Britain,
using over 50 million pounds’ worth of softwoods
annually, receives only 10 per cent, of that from
Dominion and home sources. In spite of attempts at
replanting, a shortage, with consequent higher prices,
seems inevitable before her own plantations are half-
grown. Canada, which once contributed huge supplies
of softwoods to the world’s markets, now has little
but inferior timber left. British Columbia is now
supplying 70 per cent, of the Dominion’s output at a
rate which is rapidly depleting her supplies. America
is felling annually four times the amount of softwood
she can replace. Britain alone imports annually in.
softwoods, paper derived from them and pulp over
£80,000,000 worth, eloquent testimony to the value of
this timber. In 1928 Australia imported £8,000,000
worth of wood pulp, newsprint and commercial paper,
£2,000,000 worth of artificial silk, and £5,000,000
worth of sawn timber. Afforestation, under the skilled
direction which the Forestry Pulp and Paper Com-
pany has acquired, has received endorsement every-
where as a sound commercial proposition. Timber in
its many mutations should in the near future prove as
valuable to Australia as wool or wheat. The only
means by which the vanishing stocks can be replen-
ished in Australia is by extensive replanting on the
lines being followed by the Forestry Pulp and Paper
Company.
Following on the opinion given some time ago by
the Australian Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, it was resolved that pinus insignis was the
ideal softwood for the Company’s purpose. At Dart-
moor, in Victoria, the Company has a freehold of
nearly 8000 acres, with a railway running through
the property to Mt. Gambier in South Australia,
while it is only 43 miles by rail from the deep-sea port
of Portland in Victoria. There are plentiful supplies
of water, and 6000 acres of pinus insignis have been
planted and range from one to four years old.
Firebreaks are provided, and the well-maintained roads
throughout the property are also a safeguard in this
respect.
The Company’s Pittwater estate in Tasmania is
surrounded on three sides by the waters of Storm
Bay, and is only 11 miles from Hobart, with good
means of access by land and water. A very important
item in regard to this property is that it is only 40
miles by navigable water from the famous Huon apple-
growing district, which consumes 25 million super feet
of timber for casing annually. Insignis pines planted
14 years ago on this property as windbreaks, w r hen the
country was orchard land, are now over 60 feet high,
with trunks from 12 to 14 inches in diameter. With
closer planting and forestry conditions they would have
been much larger. Seventeen hundred acres already
planted at Pittwater have proved that the growth here
will at least equal that at Dartmoor. Six acres of
nursery beds carry seedlings ready for planting.
To those asking if there is any likelihood of
profit in afforestation it need only be said that the
matter has gone far beyond surmise. It is admitted
the need for softwood timber is insistent and con-
stantly increasing. It is just as obvious that there is
no other means of supplying the demand save by
afforestation, wliicli must inevitably become an indus-
try of as great importance in Australia as it is
becoming in other countries. It is not easy to give
accurate figures of the net return per acre, but expert
estimates place it at about £250 for wood pulp. When
marketed as timber even better returns have been
obtained. A gross return of £673 is recorded from one
acre at Mt. Burr, in South Australia, while over
200,000 board feet were cut from a similar area m
the same State.
As to markets, Australia itself, far removed from
the world’s markets, must become a heavy consumer of
locally-grown timber. Afforestation,. therefore,
promises to be a highly-paying proposition, whether
the trees are used for pulping or for the building
timber so much in demand throughout the Continent.
Regarding financial prospects, it may be pointed
out that the Company’s revenue, apart from that
accruing under the heads set out earlier in this article,
is supplemented by that derived from its acre-selling
scheme—indeed, the Company’s present income is
derived from its acre-selling department. The price
to investors under this head is £30 per acre, paid by
a deposit and monthly instalments. On its side, the
Company undertakes to clear the land and plant 680
trees to the acre. These are tended and cultivated
to maturity, when the Company will cut and market
them for the purchasers. The Company pays muni-
cipal or shire rates and charges, and gives protection
against sickness or lion-employment of purchasers.
Freehold title is available on completion of payments.
1927 PLANTING. (Photo., Jan., 1931.)
Expert investigation has shown that a profit of
about £4 per ton is obtainable from wood pulp, this
omitting any derived from the utilisation of waste,
practically all of which can be converted into profit-
able by-products. In addition to wood pulp, the possi-
bilities of the Australian softwood timber market must
be taken into account. At present this country imports
practically the whole of its softwood requirements.
With overseas production of these woods falling off, it
follows that there must be an increasing demand for
the local product in the near future.
There can be no doubt but that the Forestry Pulp
and Paper Company is giving good value for money,
and is carrying out its undertaking on a sound and
highly-organised basis. From the investor’s point of
view the proposition is an unusually sound one, and
those looking for quick returns can purchase acres,
hold them for a period, and resell at improved values
as the capital worth of their holding improves with
the growing trees;
The investor in this Company is making a sound
disposition of his resources, helping a great primary
industry, and assisting to solve one of the most serious
of Australia’s problems by creating additional employ-
ment for thousands of workers.
INVEST IN AUSTRALIA. LET SUN AND RAIN WORK FOR YOU. THESE
TREES ARE GROWING INTO MONEY ALL THE TIME. LOOK INTO THE
MATTER YOURSELF AND SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET CONTAIN-
ING FULL INFORMATION.
HEAD OFFICE: CHANCERY HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
BRANCH OFFICES:
63 Pitt Street, Sydney. 324 Queen Street, Brisbane. 55 Epworth Buildings, Pirie
Street, Adelaide. 840 Hay Street, Perth. Bursary House, Hobart.
Fill in and send coupon to any of above offices.
COUPON
NAME
ADDRESS
Please forward me illustrated booklet.


The WILD CAT
COLUM
Wool worths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profits.(lo p.c.) Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22,817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. =, 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
£37,495 7,138
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 174 p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
One of the most profitable developments of
modern merchandising methods has been the
evolution of the chain system in connection
with the sale of low-priced miscellaneous
goods. Quick turnover for cash is the
pillar on which the system rests, and this
in turn depends upon good buying. Small
personal service—salesmanship is reduced to
a minimum, there are no deliveries and few
book debts —means low overhead. The
aim is to clear most lines in time to pay
the bill and pocket the profit within the
period allowed under ordinary trade credit,
thus removing much of the difficulty usually
involved in financing stocks, as well as keep-
ing down the capital investment per store.
Cos. working closely to these principles have
won very attractive results as their turnover
expanded.
Formed in Sydney in December, 1924, this
co. spread to Brisbane, and presently subsi-
diaries were set up in Westralia and Maori-
land, and another was registered in London
to do the foreign buying; but imported goods
now account for less than one-quarter of
the co.’s sales. Meanwhile the number
of branches were multiplied, and there are
now 21 stores in the chain, including the
subsidiaries.
Last year a one-for-one gift scrip issue to
the ords. lifted paid capital to £242,788 in
75,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 167,788 ords.
at Dec. 31. The book value of the assets
was written up for the purpos r >; goodwill
(the “Wild Cat” has not treated it as ari
asset herein) was increased by £37,495, rais-
ing the figure to £87,495.
Because lighter purses forced discrimina-
tion in favor of cheaper-priced goods,
many who used to pass by Woolworth’s
now go in. Thus there was a spring
of £20,671 in last year’s net earnings;
and after paying the pref. div. enough
remained to show 32.6 p.c. on ord. capital as
it now stands. The div. was dropped to
17J p.c., but that called for £8675 more than
25 p.c. did in the previous term. Further,
when the books closed, shareholders could
see the whole of their capital intact and
£18,406 besides. Incidentally, part of the
cash-paid capital was issued at a premium
of 200 p.c., and that takes some of the gilt
off the gingerbread.
The quick development of the business,
the nature of the financial structure and
last year’s capitalisation are all reflected in
the next comparison of balance-sheet figures:
„ . 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £93,764 £111,330 £155,713 £242,788
Liabilities . . 127,525 119,833 123,901 127,170
Freeholds .. 51,667 51,966 120,948 118,697
Leaseholds .. 6,095 8,133 9,178 9,083
Plant.. .. 37,106 59,650 55,952 51,629
Shares other cos.,
etc. . . 9,450 44,850 63,050 103,100
Stocks . . 100,551 107,111 84,698 121,556
Debtors . . 4,159 5,301 4,336 4,044
Cash .. .. 929 1,597 36,599 65,703
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
£18,269 added to the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors (£64,170), enabled the board to
clip £15,000 off the mortgage (now £63,000),
carry an extra £36,858 of stocks and streng-
then the cash position by £29,104. The
growth of £40,050 in the book value of
shareholdings may have some connection
with the revaluation of the assets. The
more or less liquid surplus (£64,133. in-
cluding stocks but not shares) was £62,401
stronger than at the previous balance.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
decided to open up in Melbourne, and
another subsidiary, Woolworths (Vie.),
Ltd., has been registered for the purpose.
At 265. the prefs. return a wink under
6 p.c. after allowing for the statutory cut.
The cover is £3 9s. 7d. in net tangibles, and
last year’s profit was over eight times their
annual requirements. The ords., which are
covered by 225. 4d. in net tangibles, are
not listed.
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
Net To Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
_ . £ £ £
Preliminary exes. .. .. .. 10,667
1930.. 15.505 20 p.c. = 10,889 4616 6[051
Reserves.
1931.. 19,239 9 p.c. 15 „ „ 10,460 8779 2,728
After capitalising £10,667 of preliminary
exes., this Maoriland subsidiary netted 28.4
p.c. on its £54,405 of ord. capital in its
first 12 months’ trading, and paid a 20 p.c.
div. Last year £30,000 of 9 p.c. cum. prefs
were issued, making paid capital £84,450,
and two new stores were opened, raising
the total to four. After providing for de-
preciation and taxation, and paying the pref.
div., enough remained to show 30.3 p.c. on
the ord. capital; but the div. was dropped
to 15 p.c., money being required for further
expansion of the business.
At Oct. 5 last, sundry creditors figured
for £42,987. Stocks (£81,037), book debts
(£2414) and cash (£1171) totalled £84,622.
Freehold and fittings were in at £50,976.
Since the books closed a new branch has
been opened at Dunedin, and 20,000 new £1
prefs. have been offered at a premium of
Is. each. When the issue is fully paid pref.
divs. will call for £4500 p.a., or less than
one-quarter of last year’s net earnings. At
255. the shares return 7.2 p.c. The back-
ing is 435. 9d. in net tangibles. The ords.,
which are held mostly by the parent, are
not listed.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Rc-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
275 415
1926.. 33,904 20 p.c. = 24,000 9,904 285’,319
1927.. 34,965 20 „ „ 24,000 10,965 296,284
1928.. 28,570 20 „ „ 24,000 4,570 300,854
1929.. 32,158 25 „ „ 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
Rigid selection of risks has been a cardi-
nal feature of this co.’s policy ever since it
was formed under a deed of settlement in
1872. So successful was the business that
the original cash-paid capital of £6250 rose
to £120,000 (its present figure) by trans-
fers from reserves. The last gift issue was
in 1918. Good divs. have been paid all along;
and in 1920 the system of handing policy-
holders part of the profit was cut ( in;, and
the co. became one of the tariff offices.
The main source of profit is now interest,
etc., on the co.’s capital and corpulent reserve
fund investments. In 1930, after charging
rates and taxes, underwriting showed a loss
of £lBl5. Last year more premiums were re-
jected, and income from this source dropped
£7650. However, the management knew what
it was doing, as this comparison of under-
writing figures shows:—.
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.e. 40.7 p.c.
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 „ 45.9 „
1926.. 110,336 48,883 50,795 44.3 „ 46.0 „
1927.. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1928.. 116,020 53,367 57.540 48.0 „ 49.6 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3 „
Claims (£30,312) were £9853 lighter, mak-
ing off with 30.9 p.c. of the net premiums
as against 37.8 p.c. in the previous year.
But select business is usually expensive, and
though outgoings were got back £4968, they
made off with 64.3 p.c. of the net premiums
as against 63.9 p.e. in 1930. The result was
an underwriting profit (a rare thing these
days) amounting to £5556; with £27,103
(down £765) of rents and interest added,
the £32,659 of profit in the introductory
table is arrived at.
This profit was 27.2 p.c. on capital, but
the £27,500 handed out was no more than
6.5 p..c. on shareholders’ total funds (capital
and reserves combined). The £5159 that
was left to swell accumulations and the re-
turns therefrom was equal to another 1.2
p.c. Including £50,685 set aside against un-
expired risks, visible reserves amount to
£304,224, diligently built up over a period
of 60 years. The very handy form in which
most of the funds and the trifle of debt are
invested is seen in this table:—
1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. .. 15,089 41,063 12,999
Freeholds 142,771 142,771 142,771
Mortgages .. .. 45,990 31,345 31,510
Investments .. .. 157,545 192,501 189,501
Cash 82,663 101,902 88,665
Debtors 15,440 21,610 12,278
Freeholds principally represent a valuable
property on the corner of King and Pitt
streets, Sydney. It is entirely a letting pro-
position, the co. itself living in rented pre-
mises. Investments include £136.895 of Gov-
ernment stock, £13,000 deposited with the
Government, £4OOO in the old Rural Bank
loan, and £35,606 of shares, debentures, etc.,
in other cos. The cash is mostly on fixed
deposit (£78,500).
The business is mainly fire and general
accident, the co. having looked askance at
workers’ compensation. At Dec. 31 last net
tangibles were equal to 433 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, and were .sufficient to pay the
year’s claims more than 14 times over. Few,
if any, fire and accident concerns in the
world can show policy-holders a wider mar-
gin of protection.
Shareholders are exceptionally well secured,
too. The visible net tangible backing
amounts to £3 10s. 7d. per £1 of capital. The
scrip is all tightly held in a few hands.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
Ord. Pref. Total Re-
Jan., Profits. Div. Div. Div. serves.
£> £ £
1922.. 99,388 10p.c.6&7p.c. 77,431 61 35?
1923.. 113,270 10 „6& 7 „ 90,898 73.725
1924.. 132,887 10 „6& 7 ~ 106,392 100,220
1925.. 150,260 10 „6& 7 ~ 100,162 150,313
1926.. 190,078 10 „6&7„ 104,823 235,573
1927.. 217,261 10 „6& 7 „ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6& 7 „ 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 „6&7„ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 229,366 10 „6&7„ 128,297 .644,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „6&7„ 122,170 748,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „6&7„ 110,208 810,134
It used to be a steady 10 per center with
wide margins. But the co. operates a public
utility, and 10 p.c. divs. may prove to be
an indiscretion at the moment; hence the
board considers “a strong financial position
more important than the rate of dividend,”
which has been reduced to 8 p.c. The profit
claimed for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts was £110,208, or £11,973 less
than for the previous term, and exactly
enough to cover the pref. requirements and
8 p.c. to the ords. The difference between
the figure claimed and that shown in the
table represents net additions to the various
reserves. Chief of these is the renewals,
replacements and contingency fund (now
£767,899), to which £58.244 was added last
year as against £101,449 the year before.
The probabilities are that these reserves are
accumulations in excess of current require-
ments for depreciation, etc. The board
admitted as much about half a dozen years
ago, when it claimed that the plant was
worth approximately £200,000 more than its
then boob value.
Recent movements in balance-sheet figures
also suggest that provision is made for de-
predation before additions are made to
visible reserves:—
1921. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,398,226 £1,398,226
Liabilities .. .. 42,200 74,400 50,718
Property, plant, mains,
etc. .. .. 769,184 2,030,434 1,956,276
Cash, public securities,
etc. .. . . 27,629 193,741 275,481
Book debts, etc. .. 47,869 53,563 83,925
Thus, in the absence of sales, and none are
reported, £74,158 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets last year. The net
addition to visible reserves was £61,625; and
the more or less liquid surplus sprang
£135,784, reaching £308,688. Most of the
spare money went into public securities,
cash, etc., up £81,740; debtors’ balances in-
creased by £30,362, and £23,682 was snipped
off the debt.
Treating visible additions as profit, but
allowing for the pref. requirements (£9950),
there was enough to show 12.9 p.c. on ord.
capital last year as against 17.3, 18.5, 18.7
and 17.9 p.c. back to 1928. Much, of course,
depends upon the efficiency of the plant, in
which respect technical improvements,
many of them affecting the cost of pro-
duction, make the charge for absolescence
heavy. Subject to the Brisbane Council’s
statutory right to purchase at various dates,
the co.’s franchises are perpetual. Still, be-
cause it operates a public utility, there is
the evergreen possibility of legislative inter-
ference with the div. However, reserves are
accumulating.
The prefs.—2o,ooo 6 per cents, and 12-5,000
7 per cents.—are preferential as to dividends
only. As for capital they rank equally with
the ords. after deducting reserved profits.
The market prices the fully-paid ords. at
275. 6d. as against 235. a year ago. The
return at 275. 6d. is 5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. At 225. the 7 p.c. prefs. yield
6.4 p.c. The backing for all shares is 31s.
7d. in net tangibles.
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,136 160,018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11.675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548.. 219,214
1925.. 58.583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1926.. 65,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 ) , q , , nf? Q o Q
Trans, to Shareholders, £4278 j 405,939
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 38,108 444,047
1931.. 96,332 40,546 18,327 )
Trans, to sharehc’ ‘ rs, £lOOO ) 36,4d9 480,506
Indcc.'rialj Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 P.c.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. .. 279,872
1925. . 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 .. .. 325,910
1926.. 137,552 35,518 55,004 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519.671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
1931.. 181,664 71,997 68,023 609,496
This little Dunedin-controlled office is a
proprietary concern with a paid capital of
£21,000. About two-thirds of its income
is gathered in the Dominion and the other
third in Australia. The co. has lacked
vigor in the way of development; but the
structure is sound. The divisible surplus
from all sources grew from £6017 for the
quinquennium at the end of 1919 to £30,338
five years later, and to £67,468 at the close
of accounts in 1928, when bonuses on
Ordinary policies—6os. per cent, on whole of
life—were double the l’ate declared in 1923.
Policy-holders in the Industrial department
were given a share in the profits for the first
time in 1928. Of these profits 90 p.c. in
the Ordinary and 80 p.c. in the Industrial
section belong to policy-holders, and the
balance to shareholders, who have had 12 p.c.
(2 p.c. of it is labelled bonus) for each of
the last three years.
Last year the business held well consider-
ing the difficulties. Combining the figures
of all departments, net premiums (£219,722)
were £1147 lighter; interest, etc. (£58,274),
was £2715 better. But the £78,104 added
to funds, raising them to £1,090,002 at Dec.
31, was £BlB5 less than the previous year’s
addition, due to a heavy crop of maturities
in the Ordinary branch. To what extent
funds have grown in excess of bare require-
ments under policy contracts since 1928 will
not be known definitely until the Actuary
makes his overhaul at the close of accounts
in 1933.
Considering the net cost of insurance,
which seems quite moderate, a disappointing
feature is the sluggish progress of the figures
in the Ordinary branch:—
' „ . 1923. 1928. 1930. 1931.
New Policies.. 1,104 1,427 1,138 1 342
Assuring .. £244,664 £356,874 £318,482 £318,896
First Premiums 5,612 7,965 7,453 6 785
Renewal pre-
miums .. 29,191 41,342 47,938 48,808
Disregarding consideration for annuities,
exes, took 22.3 p.c. of last year’s net pre-
miums as against 23.7, 23.5, 23.2 and
20.8 p.c. back to 1927, despite the growth in
taxation.
In the Industrial section there was a slip
of £22 0,122 in the Rmount of now business
(£476,794). Still, net premiums
(£149,080) were only £932 lighter; and exes
made off with 45.6 p.c. of them compared
with 48.2 p.c. and 57.9 p.c. in 1930 and 1929
respectively. A year or so ago the non-for-
feiture system was introduced with benefit
to both policy-holders and the co.
After deducting rates and taxes, the year’s
net interest return (£51.997) was 4.9 p.c. on
mean funds as against 5.3 p.c. in 1930. The
office assumes that its funds will turn in
only 3-| p.c.
Of a balance-sheet total of £1,154,601 at
Dec. 31, £943,377 was in Australian and
Maoriland Government and public-body
securities. Premises figured at £51,740 sub-
ject to a mortgage of £30,000; loans and
fnfarmer and Co.’s deben-
nflnnnr f 124 ’ book debts, cash, etc.,
accounted for the balance (£30,565).
Haymarket Permanent Land and Building
t\ To Re-
iiofit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
iqfe" in’S 6p.c.= 6000 1868 13,132
iqqS" 6 » » 6000 4534 17,666
6 » » 6000 4722 22,388
J 924.. 6,217 6„ „ 6000 217 22,605
192. J. 6,238 6„ „ 6000 238 22,843
Plofit on sale > £4759 .. .. 27,603
6,614 6 p.c. = 6000 27,216
1927.. 6,702 23* „ ~23,500 10.418
Pref. Ord.
84 p.c. 6 p.c.
1928.. 7,434 £931. £6OOO 503 10,921
1929.. 8,926 2125 6000 801 11,722
Loss on investments, £lOOO hi
1930.. 3 .1594 • Nil 8,131
Loss.
1931.. 5,286 Nil Nif 3,845
*Nine months.
ThFs one of the now very sick Arthur Rickard
group of city and suburban land speculating
concerns (most of them have gone into liqui-
dation) limps along waiting for the posi-
tion to clear sufficiently for the board to see
where the business really stands. All but a
dozen of the 100,000 ' ords. are held by
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended (in liq.).
After a run of 6 p.c. divs. during the boom
years, the slender reserves were tapped for
£16,795 to pay a special 23£ p.c. in 1927.
Then the public put up £25,000 in 81 p.c.
cum. prefs.
But the bursting of the boom, and the
Moratorium and Ejectment Postponement
and Rent Reduction Acts, with amend-
ments to the Landlords and Tenants
Acts, have all contributed to the dis-
location in the real estate market and to
the collapse of values and rentals. Thus
the board put the loss on last year’s activi-
ties at £5286, including £1725 for land tax,
and the prefs. went hungry. They call for
£2125 p.a., and there was £2537 coming to
them when the books closed; what their
prospects are it is difficult to say at the
moment.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it-
-1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. . . £125,000 £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities .. .. 52,123 38,096 35,496
Premises .. .. 36,571 21,477 21,112
Unsold land . . . . 53,825 48,038 50,253
Shares in other cos. .. 1,075 75 75
Mortgages, etc. .. 42,629 42,811 33,135
Debentures . . .. 40,000 35,511 34,364
Sundry debtors.. .. 5,816 377 264
Cash, etc 11,103 2,664 2,110
Liquidation claims .. 24,273 24,753
But too much notice need not be taken of
those figures. No provision has been made
for depreciation of property and other values,
nor for possible losses on unsecured claims
amounting to £24,753 and secured claims
totalling £34,364 against four other members
of the group who have put up the shutters.
On the figures as presented, and leaving both
secured and unsecured claims out of the
reckoning, the book value of the remaining
assets could, shrink over 58 p.c. before a
penny of outside money would be in danger.
The net cover for the prefs., excluding unse-
cured claims, was £4 3s. 3d. (book value).
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. 4174 B~p.c. = 2800 1374 4,403
1922.. 4305 8 „ „ 2800 1505 5,908
1923.. 6618 10 „ ~ 3500 3118 9,026
1924.. 5892 10 „ ~ 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ ~ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5663 10 ~ „ 3600 2163 16,982
1927.. 2811 10 „ „ 3500 36,293
1928.. 2140 5 „ „ 1750 390 16,683
1929.. 1764 5 „ „ 1750 14 16,697
Loss.
1930.. 883 Nil 15,814
1931.. 263 Nil 15,551
Since this co. took over the old Clarendon
Hotel in 1910 shareholders have averaged
a shade over 5 p.c. There was a short run
of 10 p.c. distributions at the height of the
boom; but other hotels sprang up, outgoings
became more difficult to restrain and the
Spit (Middle Harbor) bridge failed to bring
Manly the business that was anticipated,
motorists using it largely to turn off to the
beaches further north; and the opening of
the big Harbor Bridge at the end of last
week is not likely to make much difference.
It is difficult to say, therefore, when share-
holders are likely to get into the picture
again.
The co.’s finances are drifting in the wrong
direction, too:
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Liabilities.. .. £26,997 £25,672 £23,568 £22,552
Liquid assets . . 12,788 9,528 5,664 4,387
Excess liabilities.. £14,209 £16,144 £17,904 £18,165
Buildings, etc. , . 67,941 68,716 68,716 68,716
Thus the slip over the last five years is
£3956. More or less liquids were £1835 in
excess of the floating debt at Dec. 31. The
other £20,000 of liabilities consists of 51 p.c.
perpetual debentures, of which £12,000 was
the purchase price of the Clarendon. A
hotel of this kind is a hungry animal for
repairs and modernising improvements;
much will depend upon what the board is
able to do in this way and charge to
revenue. The market prices the pound shares
at 3s. 3d.
Photomaton (Vic.), Ltd.
The brief but eventful history of this little
concern illustrates the very tricky nature of
investment in novelty devices. It was at the
end of 1928 that a group of Sydney and Mel-
bourne investors floated Photomaton, Ltd., to
operate the Australian rights in an auto-
matic photographic device bought from the
Photomaton parent corporation of London
for £43,000-odd. That was before the Eng-
lish co., formed by Clarence Hatry, had gone
to the wall upon the collapse of that gentle-
man’s financial machinations—in these, by
the way, Australian interests were in no
way implicated. The. English co.’s shares
had been at a high premium on the London
market, and there was a rush to get into the
Sydney concern, which kicked off with a paid
capital of £lOO,OOO.
The idea caught the public fancy for a
few weeks: but that fancy failed to stay
caught, and before the co. could get more
than a few machines on the market the busi-
ness had fallen flat. So about 12 months
(Continued on page 18.)


Mining Machinery
.... ...
mm
m* *
■
Mi
1
An _
HI
m
I
■
■
m
an
If
r
v :V
£
■
■wiii
w—«
HPOHV
.
i
——
One of four “Ruwolt” CONICAL MILLS recently made and supplied by us to the
NORTH BROKEN HILL, LTD.
WE ARE NOW MAKING TWO SIMILAR MILLS FOR THE
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES (CENTRAL QUEENSLAND).
WE ARE THE PRINCIPAL MINING MACHINERY CONTRACTORS
IN AUSTRALIA, and during the past few years we have supplied ALL the
Primary Crushing and Granding Units that have been made in Australia. The
following figures speak for themselves: —
FEEDERS
CRUSHERS
SCREENS
BALL MILLS
(Grate, Overflow or Conical)
or
STAMP
BATTERIES
RAKE CLASSIFIERS
MECHANICAL THICKENERS
“WILFLEY”
PUMPS
(Patented, Sole Aust. License to
Manufacture)
FLOTATION
MACHINERY
(“Fahrenwald" patented sale
Aust. Manu. License)
and
All Accessory
EQUIPMENT.
“CR”
MANGANESE and
CHROME STEEL
WEARING PARTS
FOR ALL MAKES
O F MACHINES.
"RUWOLT”
MILLS.
Lake View 8 Star Ltd., W.A. 9
Wiluna Gold Mines Ltd., W.A. 8
Zinc Corporation Ltd., B. Hill 2
Sulphide Corporation Ltd.,
B. Hill ----- 3
North Mount Parrel, Tas. - 1
North Broken Hill Ltd. - - 4
Mt. Coolon Gold Mines, Q’ld. 2
Mills for Other Purposes - - 8
Total - 37
Large Heavy-duty Primary ORE-BREAKER, as Supplied to BROKEN HILL NORTH
and SOUTH MINES respectively; MT. ISA MINES, LTD.; ELECTROLYTIC
ZINC CO., Rosebery, Tas.; ADELAIDE CEMENT, LTD., ETC.
(Made in full range of sizes.)
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEGRAMS: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Apvt
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street.
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
# * * #
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AMP
Here’s an A.M.P. Policy
that You and I should have
v
m
W sUf 4
m
m
ftps
[mi I
HI!
riiilil
two business partners.
A MIDDLE-AGED man took a
much younger man into part-
nership. They worked splen-
didly together and made money.
They grew to treasure and to be
dependent upon each other.
“If you were to get knocked down
by a car I should be in a sad' fix,”
the elder said, half in jest, one day.
“It would cost me a lot of money
to train a man to take your place.”
The younger laughed. “I often,
think where I should get the money
to buy out your widow if you 1 were
to be bowled over,” he said. “What
we need is some kind of insurance
policy that would cover this joint
risk that we run.”
A few days later the younger burst
into his partner’s office. “Here’s an
A.M.P. policy that you and I should
have,” he said. “For a comparatively
small premium, we can have a policy
payable on the death of either of,, us
—what about it?”
That was several years ago. To-
day those partners (without missing
the few pounds spent in premiums)
have a policy (with bonus additions)
worth over £4OOO, a sum that will
be made available in casli.at par on
the death of either. , They are very
cheerful and happy about it. It is
their sword and buckler in days that
are lean and full of trouble. Such
a, policy eliminates anxiety, builds
confidence, gives security, stiffens the
sinews and keeps the eyes bright and
hopeful.
PARTNERS!
USE THIS COUPON!
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
You interest-my partner and me with this idea. My age is
He is Give us the cost of taking out a policy on our
joint lives. Send us full particulars,
Name
Address
ĕ
after the concern had been registered it went
into liquidation, with heavy loss to its share-
holders. Meanwhile the public had put a
further £40,000 into a subsidiary, Photo-
maton (Vic.), Ltd., which bought the \ ic-
torian rights for £lO,OOO in scrip. Then the
pup acquired the parent’s assets and the busi-
ness of Studio Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. But
£30,000 of its £50,000 of capital had gone
down the sink when the books closed at
.Tune 30, 1930. To clean the slate the scrip
issued to the parent was cancelled, and half
the remaining capital was written off, reduc-
ing the figure to £20,000 in 2s. 6d. shares at
June 30 last.
There was then £1097 coming to creditors.
Stocks (£2647), book debts (£4817) and
cash totalled £8184; plant figured at £7951.
The year’s trading loss (£752) lifted intan-
gibles to £4962. Whatever hope there is for
shareholders now 7 lies in the photographic-
studio side of the business.
The N.S.W. Companies Bill
Last w r eek Mr. Lang gagged through the
N. S. Wales Assembly the Companies
Amendment (Preference Shareholders) Bill.
The vital clauses of the measure provide (1)
that the Act shall be retrospective to July
1, 1929; (2) that a co. shall not pay its
ordinary shareholders any dividend out of
the proceeds of the sale (otherwise than in
tie ordinary course of business) of any pro-
perty of the co., unless the directors hold less
than 75 p.c. of the ordinary shares or the
pref. holders approve of the payment by
extraordinary resolution within two months
of the declaration of such div.; (3) that any
indemnity given against any claim arising
out of the second provision just mentioned
shall be void and of no effect.
Apparently the real aim of the bill, which
has been held up in the Legislative Council,
is to “discipline” It. C- Packer, now manag-
ing editor of Associated Newspapers. He
is not a director of that co., as Mr. Lang
In 1923 the public put up £150,000 in 9
p.c. cum. prefs. to help Smith’s Newspapers,
Ltd., launch the “Daily Guardian.” The
150,000 ord. shares in Smith’s were then
held by Joynton Smith (75,000), R. C.
Packer (55,000), D. F. H. Packer (10,000)
and L. Deer (10,000). Six years later the
“Sunday Guardian” appeared. In January,
1930, the goodwill and publishing rights of
the “Guardians” were sold to Associated for
£575,000 —£400,000 in fully-paid 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and the balance (£175,000) cash ; there
was £140,000 of cash still to come at Sept.
30 last. Part of the consideration was used
to wipe out the £lOO,OOO at which the good-
will of the “Guardian” bad been capitalised.
Most of the balance, including all the pref.
shares (Joynton Smith, 200,000; R. C.
Packer, 150,000; D. F. H. Packer, 25,000;
L. Deer, 25,000), was whacked up amongst
the ords. in two interim divs., the amounts
of which were not disclosed in the published
accounts. By the distribution of these pref.
shares Smith’s lost the right to £28,000 p.a.
in divs., or more than twice the annual re-
quirements of its own pref. capital.
Recently the Packers joined Associated,
whereupon they sold all their ordinary shares
in Smith’s to Joynton Smith, but held on
to their Associated prefs. Joynton Smith
agreed to indemnify them against any lia-
bility that may arise in respect of the distri-
bution of these pref. shares. No extraordinary
resolution has been passed by Smith’s prefer-
ence shareholders agreeing to the special
divs. paid to the ords. in 1930. Should the
bill, as it was introduced by Mr. Lang, be-
come law, the loss to the Packers is obvious.
Joynton Smith, provided he still holds
200,000 Associated prefs., may lose nothing.
On the other hand, since he now owns all
but a fraction of Smith’s ord. capital, he
may gain substantially. Assuming that all
the Associated prefs. distributed by Smith’s
as dividends were returned to the latter
co. and sold at the current market price of
11s. 2d.; out of the proceeds Smith’s would
then be able to return its preference capital
in full, and put over £70.000 in the till be-
sides. In addition there is £140,000, already
referred to, yet to come. The whole £210.000
or more would, of course, belong to the ords.
The N. S. Wales Companies Act badly
wants tightening up, but to attempt the job
for any purpose of victimisation is an abuse
of legislative power.
Smith’s prefs. have remained at about .
9s. 3d. in the market, notwithstanding the
introduction of the bill.
The year 1931 saw a big jump upwards
in the N.S.W. gold yield, which totalled
19,6730 z. fine, worth, at standard price,
£83,565. The 1930 figures were 12.4930 z.,
valued at £53,066. At the average monthly
price of gold in London last year’s recov-
eries were w r orth £93,000. The exchange
premium lifted the figure to £116,000 in Aus-
tralian currency.
❖ ❖ ❖
Maoriland exported 16,6490 z. of gold
valued at £68,959 for December. For the
corresponding month of 1930 the figures were
55180 z. valued at £22,700. At the moment
an ounce of gold fetches more than the aver-
age price of a bale of wool in the Dominion.
* * * >s
New Misima G. M. Co., on the Papuan
island of that name, is paying regular
monthly divs. of 6d. each on its 20s. shares,
and putting a bit in the cupboard as well.
Two shifts are being worked on the battery,
and cyanide solution instead of plain water
used. If things pan out as expected, there
may be a lift in the div. in a month or two.
* * * $
The Mt. Coolon Co.’s 10s. shares, now paid
to 35., are selling at 4s. on the market. Every-
thing is being made ready for erection of the
primary crusher, two large conical ball mills,
mechanical thickeners, etc., all of which are
being built by Ruwolt’s, Melbourne.
* # * *
The old Balhannah goldmine, near Bal-
hannah (S. Aus.), which has been idle for
50 years, is now being unwatered by an
Adelaide co. The main shaft is at a depth of
300 ft. Here there are indications that the gold
is associated with bismuthite in the ratio
of loz. of gold to every 201 b. of bismuth
mineral. In the upper levels the gossan was
very rich, and several small nuggets were
found. The country rock is sandstone and
slate, l across which the lode cuts at a
right angle. The occurrence of bismuth with
gold ores is a feature of many of the gold-
mines in the Mt. Lofty district.
4 4 * 4
Mongalata, 14 miles n.e. of Burra, has,
like so many initially promising S. Aus.
goldfields, proved very disappointing. Both
the Orinda and Hansel Mundy cos., which
held options over a number of leases, have
packed up. Up to June, 1931, the numerous
leases yielded 130 oz. from 37 tons. Inten-
sive prospecting is still being carried on.
* 4 4 4
South Kalgurli, which has been the most
regular profit-earner on the Golden Mile of
recent years, increased its mill tonnage by
2000 tons monthly to a total of 10,000 tons
over the last 12 months. About 6000 tons is
drawn from the co.’s own mill, 3000 tons from
the Croesus and 1000 tons from North Kal-
gurli. For the six months to the end of Dec.,
1931, 54,000 tons yielded £99,766 with gold
at £4 4s. Costs, high at 355. 6d. per ton. left
a surplus of only £3OOO. With the exhaus-
tion of its stand-by rich shoots, the co. is
not now in such a favorable position. The
main shaft, if further sunk, will enter non-
ore-bearing calc, schist, and the Western
Morty shaft, which is very favorably situated
for underground development, is only down
to 1200 ft. An amalgamation with adjoin-
ing properties seems the best way out.
4 4 4 4
Boulder Perseverance shares have strength-
ened on the report that the new bromo
cyanide treatment plant may start earlier
than was originally expected, which was in
June next. Helped by the gold premium the
co. has recently been netting from £lO.OOO
to £12.000 a month on a capital of £125,000,
and has informed the Westralian Govern-
ment that it will not require the £lO,OOO
it arranged to borrow from the State to
partly pay for the plant.
4 4 4 4
Sydney is interested, through Oriomo Ex-
plorations, in prospector McDonald’s show,
about 50 miles east of Wubin (W.A.), a
wheat-farming centre on the Northam-Mul-
lewa railway line. McDonald’s claim is at
a previously untested point on the long line
of country which includes Mt. Gibson and
Retaliation, two concerns which Melbourne
will remember with misgiving, and Gnow’s
Nest, which performed creditably. A feature
of the district is the 50-mile run of hae-
matite-quartz formation. Two small shafts
on the claim are being deepened, and the
bottoms of these are in lOdwt. ore at the
moment.
4 4 4 4
After years of fruitless toil by Wilson and
Mackey and the co. which took it over
from them, the refractory Transvaal gold-
arspnie lode at Southern Cross (W.A.) is
to be given another trial. W. and M. were
on the edge of a financial abyss when a
Kalgoorlie crowd made them an offer, and
no mine-owners ever parted with the cause
of their worries more joyfully. Now George
Robson has pegged an impressive area, in-
cluding the Transvaal workings, and says he
is going to do something.
$ V V
After behaving in fine style for nearly
20 years, the little Radio, Southern Cross
(W.A.), is still going strong. During the
first two months of this year the mill put
through 110 tons for 2600 z. gold, worth about
£lBOO. Costs were below £5OO. Thus it
is easy to figure out how Alex. Barr and
Jack Clements, who own the show, manage
to weather the storm.
4 4 4 4
At Wiluna (W.A.) several new develop-
ments at the 450 ft. and 625 ft. levels
have been reported, and others are tipped at
these two points and in deeper ground. Not
long ago the controllers of the property
feared that the show had bottomed.
4 4 4 4
Undaunted by the disappointments of
Freney’s and others, a small group of Sydney
and Perth investors have formed a co. to
search for payable oil in the north of West-
ralia. The area acquired has been “favor-
ably reported on,” but, the drill is the final
arbiter in these matters.
4 4 4 4
Alluvial Tin’s seven working properties
in Malaya recovered 342 tons of oxide, worth
£29,264, for February. The working profit
was £i7,020, Rawang Concessions will de-
clare 6d. per share (plus exchange) on
March 15, payable on or after March 22.
4 4 4 4
Graphite or similar carbonaceous material
is frequently present in gold ores, and in
eyaniding causes greatly increased consump-
tion of cyanide and poor gold recovery. At
the Glynns Lydenburg goldmine, S. Africa,
flotation has been adopted to remove the
graphite, which is one of the most readily
floated minerals. This change increased the
overall'recovery of ..gold from 78.6 p.c. to
87.6 p.c. on a treatment of 6400, tons monthly.
The change in plant cost £lO,OOO. and the
annual . gain from increased ' recovery is
£14,000. This, example illustrates the bene-
fits to be derived from plant research work.
4 4 4 4
“Exile”: Mill (fi ose Mine, in Derbyshire,
is the only survivor of the lead-mining indus-
try in the U.K. Its output, after 71 years
of continuous work, is now greater than that
of any two counties in the past. The great
Halkyn Tunnel in North Wales, which will
be 11 miles long when complete, is begin-
ning to drain the famous lead deposits of this
area, and production will be considerable in
the near future. • The earliest records of Mill
Close go back to 1684, though the area is
believed to have been worked by the Romans..
The Halkyn Mines closed in 1900. but the
tunnel will remove most of the water which
drowned them out.
4 4 4 4
Though they declare that they are labor-
ing at the “bottom of the earth,” workers
in the 7500 ft.-deep British-owned mine at
Morro Vellho, Brazil, are still making it
a payable proposition. The mine is the
deepest in the world, and little work goes on
above the 5000 ft. level. In several stages,
by elevator, cable-car and, finally, by a heavy
iron dump attached to a strong steel cable,
the miners reach the workings where the
air is musty and hot, often rising to a
temperature of 114 deg. The mine was
bought by the St. John del Rey Mining Co.
of England, for £56.000 in 1834. The aver-
age monthly treatment is 17.000 tons, and
the gold content is worth about £3 per ton.
Yearly production is around £500,000.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transfared from Service Department.)
m What is diatomaceous earth used for?
(2> j s it mined or quarried in Australia?
>3) Likely buyers? (4) Price per ton? —
8723.
(2') } s uged as an abra sive, chiefly in
polishing powders and scouring soaps, as a
filtering medium in certain manufacturing
industries, and in oil refineries. It also
make 9 an efficient lieat insulating medium
suitable for boiler coverings, stove linings,
etc. (2) Yes, both mining and open-cut
methods are adopted. (3) Minerals, Ltd.,
318 Botany-road, Alexandria. Austral Rock
Milling Co., Gladstone-street, Newtown —
both Sydney. (4) £3 10s. to £4 on trucks
country stations.
(1 ) What was the cost of plant and
machinery at Mt Isa? (2) Mining and
treatment costs 9 (3) Monthly ore capacity
0 j t j te 8770.
(2) £1,300 000 ' (2) No published costs
available. (3) 1400 tons daily; expected to
increase to onoo tons daiH' this vem*
UM9 **“ *° dajy tto. yeai.
BRIEF answers.
tI **
d A
bfVfiniteTSted t? 1 - Z
he stated at the moment....A.K.. The
possiblllties are as you suggest; but misreprcsenta -
turn would have to be proved, and that may be
difficult in view of the certificate from the Director
°f Agriculture. If you are satisfied you have a
stron g case > consult a solicitor e.s.g.: Cannot
say exactly until actuary’s report (due any day now)
p “ a “ e available. Bonus prospects are poor
a ' : . lf a ,, olu * e safet y of capital is essential, fixed
”c p ° slt - Consols give a much better return, free of
~a 0 . an ,, 0 additional Commonwealth taxes, but
Me+l n *°! “f^’^ctnaticna... .Grateful:
of , w ° rks 5s p ; c ; 1948 ’ s are
i‘ * nto r rest p T ü bl c has ,>een
toitoth lut! iJf/i P ;°V whl ?LI 8 ® ubje ?
gj™ a t ® tax ® B ' , 1988 ? ons<^ s
ao/s/’SI m Yes ’ ' eo B '
settled. ’ n ecomo more
’


wmmm
«
*
®S:S
:>**-
I
■
r
9
1
%
I
w
r
Mmm
i
A
A
'sa
1
o
Q
Q
■v
H
A
o
°td
H'
£
Ok
O
O
n
Ur
e *v/>
't
0
Q/~f
n
I
V \
e re 'Cork' and 'Plain/ a duo now,
We re on a Million lips.
We re twins in all respects but one
We re different at our tips."
Jk D C T Jk N
■ ■
ru-
-3019-0


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
How Costs Are Piled Up
Dear Bulletin, —Assuming that the aver-
age overhead expenses of all distributors
throughout Australia is 20 p.c. and that an
extra 5 p.c. is added for net profit, for every
£lOO collected in Customs revenue the
public must pay £125 more for the
goods. In the case where the goods are
imported by a wholesale house, an addi-
tional 25 p.c. on the 25 p.c. brings the total
extra expense to the consumer up to £l3l|
for every £lOO of Customs revenue; Would
it not be possible to work out some scheme
by which that £lOO could be collected from
the consumer in the form of a sales tax and
distributed to the Australian manufacturer
as a subsidy arranged on a sliding scale of
reduced assistance as the increased output
enabled the manufacturer to bring his ratio
of expenses to output more in line with his
overseas competitor? It would be necessary
for the sales tax to be collected on the final
retail sale to the consumer. Under the
present scheme the retailer pays the sales
tax to the wholesaler when he pays for the
goods, and must finance that outlay until
such time as he sells the goods to the public.
He buys a bulk lot of goods by weight or in,
say, a roll of cloth. Sold in small lots it is
impossible to make these add up to full
weight or measure. A half-ounce here and
an inch there accounts for quite a consider-
able figure on which sales tax is paid but
never collected. If this suggested alternative
were adopted tin l consumer would be pro-
tected against this adding up of costs, with-
out any corresponding loss on the part of the
local manufacturer.—Yours, Lower Costs.
Repatriation Department Expenditure
Dear Bulletin, —It is ridiculous to have
nine commissioners and deputy-commission-
ers at £B6OO yearly to control the adminis-
tration of a department such as the Repat.
when one British office controls the pension-
ing and hospitalisation of some one and
three-quarter million ex-servicemen through-
out the world. One office, preferably at Can-
berra, should be quite capable of dealing with
the relatively small number of ex-A.I.F.
members.
There are many ways in which red-
tapeism in the Repat. costs Australia a lot
of money. I quote a case. A Digger has
been long receiving medical treatment and
has been prescribed for by the Repat. medi-
cal officers. To obtain a fresh bottle of
medicine from the approved chemist he must
get a “repeat order” from the local medical
officer, who has to fill in a form in tripli-
cate, two of which are given to the chemist.
Cost of medicine, say, 25.; fee to L.M.0.,
ss.—an utterly futile and wasted ss.
Or another. When a man in, .say, the
Cloncurry district appeals against the pen-
sion granted him, the practice is to take
him to Brisbane for medical examination.
Why not have him examined by one or more
doctors in Townsville? By so doing they
would save the cost of transport to and from
Brisbane, plus living allowance. Surely it
cannot be said northern doctors are incom-
petent to carry out simple medical exami-
nations ! They were competent to examine
men for enlistment.
The medical examination, treatment and
hospitalisation of war pensioners should be
v GETTING AT THE SEAT OF THE TROUBLE.”
under the Health Department acting in co-
operation with the records branch of the
Defence Department. The Repatriation De-
partment, as its name implies, was not meant
to go on for ever. It is a war-time growth,
and not a necessity in the days of peace. It
is an immensely costly department which
Australia cannot afford to keep.—Yours,
Cazan.
Profit-sharing and Industry
Dear Bulletin, —The onh thing that keeps
our unemployed from accepting lower wages
is fear of exploitation. They cannot believe
that an employer is truthful when he says
he can afford to pay only much reduced
wages. This fear of exploitation could be
removed by a system of profit sharing.
The first step would be the removal of all
awards as to hours and wages from such
businesses as agreed to co-operate. This
would give the managements the right to buy
labor in the cheapest market they could find.
After the year’s trading the auditors repre-
senting both parties would determine the
profits. Out of these the business would be
entitled to, say, 3 per cent, on capital actu-
ally represented by tangible assets, the value
of which would have to be first agreed upon.
Anything above that would be divided
between the business and the employees in
the same ratio as the amount
of the 3 per cent, dividend bore
to the wages and salaries bill
for the year. Any profits put
back into the business, and so
creating further employment,
should pay a lesser rate of
bonus, two-thirds or half the
above ratio.
Such an agreement would
promote harmony, since it
would assure the worker that
the capitalist was not waxing
fat on the product of sweated
labor, while the owner would
know that, if he had to share
his surplus profits, he at least
would have a reasonable chance
to make them. The employee
w r ould see that, to “put the boot
into the boss” would be putting
the boot into himself. —-Yours,
A. McDowall.
The Land and Its Debts
Dear Bulletin, —As I see it
the cause of our trouble is over-
capitalisation. In the mad
days of the ’twenties the banks
more or less forced money on
clients to enable them to en-
large their holdings or make
improvements, etc-., and thus
put up the values in every dis-
trict. There was no difficulty
in getting 50 p.c. of the then
supposed value of a property
from any financial institution,
and most people availed them-
selves of the opportunity while
the going was good. Thus
holders and financial houses
ended up with an equal equity in most pro-
perties. Then the crash, and values tumbled
50 p.c., and the holders don’t know the hour
when they will lose possession. In most
cases the “owner” has not more than paid
the interest during the past two years; in
many cases not even that. The result is
that his heart is not in his work, and the
property is fast going back. A bountiful
Providence stood to him during the past
season; but will it always? Wait until we
get one of our periodical droughts! The
only remedy is to write off 50 p.c. of all such
debts, thus giving the pi-oducer back some
equity in his holding. H'is heart will then
be in his work, he will be able to employ
labor, and there will be
increased production
and employment.—
Yours, A. B. ,C.
Showing Us to Dis-
tinguished Visitors.
Dear Bulletin, —
’ There should be room
for a society with the
object of encouraging
i distinguished visitors to
[ have a look at this
country before they tell
us what we ought to do
with it. With proper
organisation a very
good look at it could be
taken from the upper
air in less than a
month, all daylight tra-
velling. My idea is
that the route should
describe the Sign of
the Cross, traversing
Australia at about its
widest part from west
to east and from south
to north, the two arms
of the holy emblem
meeting somewhere
about the centre of Aus-
tralia. The traveller
should have the right to
put certain letters after
his name to indicate
that he has Been There.
There happened into
St. James’s Church,
Sydney, the other Sun-
day Rev. W. Ashley-
Browne, “Senior Chap-
lain of the Indian
Ecclesiastical Service.”
A _ great mistake, he
said, had been made in
the past through the
over-development of city
life. But, considering
its size, Australia is
ridiculously short of
cities and likewise of
States. He added that
“the people should
occupy the wide spaces
and beautiful buslilands
of Australia, whose sal-
vation would be a
simple-living, God-fear-
ing peasantry.” That
is convincing in a
way, but if the God-fearing peasants are
over 15 miles apart the loneliness is apt
to be oppressive. As a rule, our visitor,
after a glance at Perth and Adelaide, begins
to study Australia along a narrow coastal
strip from Melbourne northward. He fills
in the inland country with pleasant villages
filled with peasantry. If it came to be
understood that the man who wanted to he
an authority on this anomalous land had to
do the air journey already specified, Aus-
tralia would have a more intelligent set of
critics. Somehow every globetrotter avoids
it as too much trouble, unless he does the
railway journey, and the train travels largely
by night and hugs the coast to avoid really
bad country. —Yours, Clifford Snook.
Forest Fires
Dear B., —The Yic. Forestry Department
frowns on the only practical means of
checking the big-timber conflagration which
every few, years exact® such a heavy toll of
human life. Ordinary firebreaks have been
proved useless; the experienced bushmen in
my district are agreed that the only reliable
remedy is to burn out the undergrowth either
before or after summer, preferably in
autumn. A fire which has to be coaxed to
burn Avill leave the timber unharmed, and
the country traversed is made safe for a
couple of years at least. To allow the
accumulation of rubbish in our forests for
OLD FRIEND OF THE FAMILY.
“I helped her get her husband, you know.”
“I didn’t know. How?”
“It was through me his first wife got a divorce.”
year upon year is simply, madness, as, de-
spite every precaution, fires will get going-
through a variety of causes, lightning being-
one of them. —Yours, Gundy.
Starvation and Its Effects
Dear Bulletin,—l do not presume to
state just what has caused the depression,
but obviously the machine has contributed to
the workers’ distress; in other words the
worker has built the machine which is now
displacing him in industry. We can now
produce more than we could, but having no
jobs (and therefore no income) we cannot
consume, and so the produce lies idle or
perishes. Meanwhile, thousands of unem-
ployed walk the country ragged, mal-nour-
ished and demoralised by their squalid
environment, existing on the dole, charity and
the assurance that the depression will lift.
But supposing it does not, and the finan-
cial members of the community “refuse to
buy civil peace with a dole”? Does anyone
expect the others will lie down peacefully and
die? Starvation is a gradual and unpleasant
process, and one in which feelings of altru-
ism and tolerance do not readily flourish;
a state in which reason becomes blind to all
“rights” except the right to live! If we
would preserve sane democracy we must keep
the community sane—starvation is not con-
ducive to sanity. That is what justifies the
dole.
I think a general rationing of all labor
(where practicable) to, say, half-time would
be the fair solution of our problem until
industry shall revive; but I doubt if such a
scheme would meet with general approval,
such qualities as self-sacrifice and patriotism
being to many minds incomprehensible.—
Yours, Hugh G.
The Cost of Living and Pastoral Awards
Dear Bulletin, —In the near future the
pastoral award, as it applies to shearing in
Queensland, will come up for consideration.
At present a uniform rate exists for shearers
throughout the State, and no allowance is
made for the great difference in the cost of
living in the various districts. In the
sugar industry, the award grants higher
wages to remote districts where the
cost of living is high. Why is not the shear-
ing industry treated in the same manner?
In the Far West and North-West,
the mess account is seldom less than 355. per
man per week; in districts closer in, it may
not exceed 255. In the interests of all con-
cerned, a variation should be made. At
present shearers and graziers both blame
the cook for heavy mess accounts in dis-
tricts where heavy trailway freights are
alone responsible.—Yours, Marsh.
Martyrs or Loafers?
Dear B., —Far too much hypocrisy is
going on under the cloak of Labor. Men
are refusing jobs avowedly to maintain a
principle, when plain laziness is the real
reason. They pose as martyrs -when they
are only loafers. Nobody suffers so much as
the genuine, work-seeking unemployed.
At a closed sou’-western timber mill
(W.A.) a few ex-employees remain, scrap-
ing a miserable existence on relief money
and occasional part-time employment. The
soil is exceptionally fertile, and surrounding
various abandoned houses once-prolific fruit
trees run riot in scrub-infested gardens.
One old man cultivated an acre, planting a
good deal of vegetables. Not one of his
neighbors offered assistance, but so many
‘borrowed when the garden bore that the
old chap now plants sufficient only for
his own needs.
\\ hen harvest commenced in a near-by
wheat district farmers offered the best wages
coll ld afford to the local unemployed.
Uld rate or nothing” was the common re-
sponse. Yet a young Italian, who was
offered 10s. per week and keep, immediately
accepted. Later, lie sought further employ-
ment, accepted bag-sewing contracts, and
earned over £4O in six weeks.
I suggest that steps ought to be taken
to separate the sheep from the goats. It
is monstrous that hard-working men on the
basic wage should have to pay Is. a week
in N. S. Wales to support loafers. And
the separation can only be done by requiring
men to perform certain tasks to qualify for
relief. —Yours, OURBAGH.
Unemployment and Female Labor
Dear Bulletin, —A business man in re-
ceipt of a salary of over £lOOO per annum
and in a sound financial position approached
me with a view to getting his daughter a
position in the bank. Next to mechanism,
the employment of women and girls in all
classes of business is the greatest cause of
unemployment amongst the men and youths
of to-day. A retired well-to-do merchant has
three of his daughters employed as clerks,
and yet he is storming and bellowing that
the country is going to the dogs because
his two sons cannot obtain work. What is
wrong with State Governments prohibiting
the teaching of commercial subjects to girls
in schools and colleges?—Yours faithfully,
Security.
Labor and Public Ownership
Dear Bulletin, —Labor in Australia has
killed the very things it set out to accom-
plish, notably public ownership and control.
In Australia those things mean loss and dis-
aster ; here in Canada, where Labor in poli-
tics doesn’t count, public ownership and
control are a success. The Ontario Ilydro-
Electric System is publicly owned, and shows
a profit every year. A Government railroad
running north from Timmins last year
handed over $BOO,OOO. The Toronto Trans-
portation Commission (trams, ferries and
’bus lines) annually shows a profit; yet it
is possible, using the transfer system, to ride
on the cars for over 20 miles for the equiva-
lent of 3d. Political interference in any of
these utilities is not tolerated. Australians
living abroad, and knowing what other
countries are doing, will be greatly dis-
appointed if the new Federal Government
continues to dicker with arbitration courts
instead of wiping them out. Other countries
won’t touch them. They know better. Wages
must be paid in ratio to production and not
be set by vote-buying machinery.
The Harbor Bridge would have been built
in this country in half the time and for less
than half the .actual cost. —Yours, D. S.
Goddard (Toronto, Canada).
The High Cost of Distribution
Dear Bulletin, —Your assertion that two-
thirds of those engaged in distribution in
Australia to-day are superfluous is sweeping,
but near the mark. A bit of legislation
would help. Jones wants a stove, and
Smith’s stove will suit him nicely, Smith
being a local manufacturer. So Jones goes
to Smith and learns that he can have a stove,
pay cash for it and take it away there and
then —and the price will be exactly the same
as if he bought it from a retailer, who would
deliver it and allow him a month to pay.
The fact is the retailer is “protected” by the
manufacturer to the tune of 25 p.c.; if he
were not and the retailer got to hear about
Smith selling his own stoves at less than he
(the retailer) could sell them, the latter
would find that Smith’s stoves were much
inferior to Blank’s, a rival manufacturer
who doesn’t sell direct to consumers.
I’m not saying that everybody is entitled to
go to a factory and get a box of soap at
the same price as the wholesaler pays, but
there are dozens of lines in which the public
is entitled to a much better price than it
can get under the present system. Legis-
lation is needed to protect the manufac-
turer selling direct against the inevitable
boycott of retailers.—Yours, Jackabuera


ACTUAL PHOTO-MICROGRAPH OF NERVE CELLS, MAGNIFIED 300 TIMES
m
::::::::::: : :-t**9F**'
’ism
ill
r
r,
Such letters are written by people
who have felt the wonderful
effects of Sanatogen on their own
health. Your nerves may not be
in such a bad state —but that is
all the more reason to be confident
that Sanatogen will give you back
strength and health and vitality.
Why not start taking Sanatogen
to-day? It must do you good
and because it is a nerve-food, it
cannot possibly do you any harm.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
Obtainable at all Chemists.
—“ like giving me
a little bit of heaven”
When you feel off-colour or suffer from sleep-
lessness, weakness, irritability, a tired feeling or any
of those common symptoms of weak nerves, why
not give Sanatogen a trial ?
So many people have found that their decision —
“I will try Sanatogen ’ —has been the turning point
in their health.
At first many of them doubted the value of
Sanatogen. They had suffered for so many years
and had tried so many medicines and tonics in vain.
But the facts convinced them that Sanatogen really
does what it promises to do: it gives new energy,
new vitality, and a feeling of youthful health.
Just read this letter from a Sanatogen user:
“ I should have written before now,
but I have been enjoying the new
life Sanatogen has given. I am 31
years old and I feel like 21 years, so
that alone will tell you what Sanatogen
has done for me. I have suffered seven
years from neurasthenia and often
have I felt like going mad. I had it so
bad I thought I would never get better.
I tried everything, until one day a
friend recommended Sanatogen. It
was like giving me a little bit of
heaven. I felt so different, full of life
and energy already after taking a few
doses. I should like the world to know
what Sanatogen has done for me.”
Mrs. L. Me. I.
Made by
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
Plum Razor Guard
.'.xv.-S’*,
«»
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and fin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
6*/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—■
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ABORIGINALITIES
NOT TRUSTING TO THE STORK.
FIRST STIRK : Now. why do you suppose Noah is taking all these animals aboard in
pairs?"
SECOND STORK: “I’m afraid he doesn’t believe the stories that are going around about us."
“Tiki’’: Kissing is an amatory exercis
that seems, to belong to the arts of civilisa
tioji. Anyway the ancient Maoris knew
nothing of it, and the Maori elders of to-
day, after the race has had close on a cen-
tury’s experience of the custom, like it nc
better than when they first made its
acquaintance. The salutation that takes the
place of a kiss in the Maori etiquette-book
is the hongi—the rubbing of noses. This
was good enough for Hinemoa, and the old
folk reckon it ought to be good enough for
the Maori maidens of to-day. But the chits
go to colleges and high schools and pick up
these objectionable Pakelia practices, and
what’s to be done about it? The elders of
the \\ aitotara tribe have met, debated the
question, and passed a resolution banning
kissing and lauding hongi-ing; but that's
not going to have much effect on pert
Gladys Beryl Turakina, cetat 17, and the
young males of her generation. In the old
days, when parental and tribal discipline
could be very nasty, and the* tohungas were
held in awe, young folk cOuld be kept in
their places, but in these days of jazz and
joy-rides, when most of the Maori girls have
forgotten how to plant a kumara or dig out
a toheroa, the outlook is hopeless.
* * * *
“Cheladon”; A heartless cable from Cal-
cutta told the other day of 'the capture by
a boat’s crevv from a passing steamer of
two turtles “in deadly combat” on the sur-
face of the ocean. So engrossed were the
pair that the boat sneaked up and secured
them with a net. In cold truth, the turtles
were not engaged in fighting, but in court-
mg, love’s young dream being invariably in-
dulged in on the surface. In the Pacific
islands capture of turtles in such circum-
stances is a commonplace. There is no
need to employ a net. The usual practice
is for a native to slip off canoe or boat, and,
swimming silently up to the turtles, to seize
their hind flippers with crossed arms, this
giving the necessary leverage for turning
them over on their backs. This is often
done when single turtles come to the surface
to breathe, an operation which takes a
couple of minutes, but that is a job that
calls for more quickness and dexterity.
CAUSE ENOUGH.
FIRE-BRIGADE CHIEF : “I can’t understand what gave this fire such a start."
ISAACS (indignantly) : “Veil, don’t you t’ink der quick vay you got here vos enough
to give anything a start?"
“Felissima”: An awful gloom pervaded
Melbourne Zoo the other morning. Nyanza,
the lion, though in the prime of life, being but
18, contracted a malaise some weeks ago,
and the ehirurgeons and apothecaries could
do nothing for him. So it was decided to
shoot him at dawn. H'e didn’t make a will,
poor fellow, having lost interest in all things,
but a post-mortem division of his personal
effects was made by the director, acting
as his next friend. His fur coat went to
Philip Wirth —an old friend of Nyanza’s, for
it was in Wirtlis’ Circus that he used to
leap through flaming rings and growl hor-
ribly at trainers. His eyes went to an oculist,
who, perhaps, intends to discover by dissec-
tion whether it really is possible to quell the
king of beasts by giving him a haughty stare.
The skeleton goes to the museum of the
Institute of Anatomy at Canberra.
* * * *
“E.S.S.” : The canvas waterbag is a bless-
ing to thousands in the back country, but
it hag been the cause of many a death.
One happened the other day. A man named
Dan Richardson set out from Boulia for
Marion Downs, 34 miles away,, with a full
bag, but the bag sprang a leak, and he
perished of thirst within 300 yards of the
Georgina River. Years ago a mate and I
picked up a man in the last stages of
thirst not far east of Bojulia. He had
started on a day’s ride with a waterbag
hanging under the horse’s neck. When
he got off to have a drink the bag was
empty. There was no leak, but a hot wind,
blowing on the front of the bag and caus-
ing evaporation, had emptied it. I had that
experience myself once on a sheep-run in
the north-west corner of N.S.W. The same
summer, and in the same part, two bicycles
were found propped against a fence, with
a dry waterbag on one, and the riders
were found dead not far away. Those men
were on a journey of only 30 miles from
water to water.
❖ ❖ ijc :{:
“Macropus”: Out-of-works who can
manage the cost of a rifle and ammunition,
plus transport, might do worse than make
for the Win ton country in n.-w. Queens-
land, which is at present suffering from a
kangaroo plague. The dry spell in the Far
West has sent the kangaroos eastward in
search of grass, and all the country which
recently benefited by the summer storms is
swarming with the hungry brutes, which leave
very little for the sheep. One owner claims
to have counted two thousand in one after-
noon in a five-mile-square paddock, and there
is no reason to dispute the statement. Times
are too hard for owners to pay for de-
struction, but the Government has been
asked to lower the rail rates on skins to
encourage shooters. These kangaroo migra-
tions are not unusual. One day you may
ride a run without putting up a single
hopper. The next, if your grass is good, the
place will be overrun by them, coming from
the deuce knows where. How they get the
tip that there is good feed a hundred miles
or more away is one of the many minor
mysteries of the animal kingdom.
>5 * * *
“Amity Point”: Brisbane fisher-folk
have lately revived the old controversy about
the proper spelling of the name of the fish
which the Americans know as bluefish, and
whici} Australians call indifferently “tailor”
or “tailer.” There are two schools. One
says that the predatory fish gets his name
from his habit of tailing up shoals of
mullet and other fish, and wading into
the huddled unfortunates when they are well
rounded up for slaughter. The other asserts
that the name should be “tailor, because
of the shear-like jaws, which make the
fish the bane of net fishermen, whose nets he
sometimes c-utg, to pieces' in liis endeavors to
escape. There can be little doubt that
the latter is the correct version, as anyone
luckless enough to have tried to disengage
a big tailor from the hook with his fingers
will testify.
* * *
“Wandi”: A feathered oddity doomed to
extinction is the cassowary, whose death
knell has been sounded by the wild pigs which
overrun the eastern side of Cape York Penin-
sula ' and devqjir eggs and everything else
edible that they come across. The birds in-
habit only a limited area of the North, and
are restricted to the jungles. They are not as
prolific as the emu, laying from three to eight
eggs, which are placed in a shallow depression
with no protection from the fossicking
grunter. Cassowaries rarely venture into
the open ; the sun affects their eyes, and if
kept in captivity in a bright light they
ultimately go blind. With the blue head,
black helmet and body, and red wattles,
the cassowary is far more showy than the
emu, but it is principally remarkable for
the weird, vibrating, drumming noise it
makes. When uttering it the bird’s throat
is distended and its head held close to the
ground. The sound can be heard at a great
distance, but is hard to locate. When
Binghi is looking for the giant fowl, he
listens for it by placing hjs ear to the
ground. The bird is usually speared, some-
times jabbed from overhead in pools and
gullies, for it likes water and is a good
swimmer.
( Continued on page 2Jf.)
ELIZA TALKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve fed the ’orses for the night, I’ve finished
up me tea,
An’, sittin’ in the fadin’ light with Spot for
companv
. Kint,, i, Jj . . ... „ , f
A b frl b ' P be at peace Wlth all ’ ai> free
from worldly cares,
But I can t steer me flamin’ thoughts away
from love affairs.
For I’ve been knockin’ round with Lize, well,
seven years at least.
’lgh time, you’ll say, for us to seek a parson
or a priest.
Yet I dunno; I’m thinking now of long slow
moonlisht wilks
Whpn T inof . ... T
When I just answer yes or n 0 while Jane
imiza talks.
£ 1 S kS ,o an a rt “” !S anythinS ’ il '° m ««“•
From makin’ scones to feedin’ pigs, an’,
take my tip, she’s smart.
She reads the papers every day, gets all the
i » !°u Cal n ifT s ’ , .
An then she s always ready, too, to air ’er
n-n. p , rlva £? views.
There s often times when in me mmd I’ve
cherished the design
Lo ask er it she d care to link ’er future
U P with mine ;
But when I meet ’er straightaway ’er know-
ledge she uncorks: . .
A bloke can only listen in while Jane Eliza
talks.
r. , , f , . , , . . , , .
Instead of burnm words of love an whispers
t 1 t? 11 4. 1 ?, W ’ „
I eais about the latest dross of Missus So-
and-so, ,
Uw Jones as got another car, an Brown
is nearly bung
Oh, yes,, she as er points as I.rze, but Lord !
she s got a tongue.
Though I believe in many ways she’d make
a bonzer wife,
Just fancy bein’ ’arnessed up an’ talked at
all your life!
I’ll stand a lot, but still at that me nature
jibs and baulks.
Per’aps it’s just as well for me that Liza
always talks.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


: V' v .
m
m
s
ma
mm*
mu
HsSra
; *•’
m
H
a-- '■/■■.
■
lili;; :
’
tigy-lL.
m
■■;■<:■■
:,' y ‘ ■"
5-
$M»w
":*
m
:
f ' J \
«■: .
w
. 23
rm
mnn
xm
+ „
. --
:■
$ A- &■
P‘ '
' * __
&•': 5 v\ ’ V ks
:
1
vv>
*
mssmsme&y
3Cv^
• ' ,* 4\ * *e?
ueiiott of me
mwjv
•
T». lubricants most extensively used for the building
equipment, from the mighty creeper cranes to the
humblest emery wheel, were VACUUM products.
These products are famous for their association with
the World’s greatest engineering achievements.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Marketers also of
PLUME - Mobiloil
They Set the Standard for Modern Motoring
PM 22


IH
®I
«
Hi
■4-‘V
♦II
sa
«S»
s*
Ks 9
£SS2S%
vss£*i§.
o
r HAN D
PLAITED,
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
fith new
riit^fastener^
PRICE*
MISnMOiffiIBBSLTB
in, Queen St. Brisbane
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.'
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Private Finance
AND
Public Taxation
How Much More Can
We Stand ?
SEE
“THE 'WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
L.S.D. : A 30-year knowledge of ocean
beaches at Sorrento and Portsea (Vic.) has
shown me that mutton-fish and peri-
winkles have an instinct as keen as a
TE WEAR AND TEAR.
WAHINE: “You haf to be more carefu’ how you sit down, Hori. You make too much
te underwear ortogetter.”
woman’s. Big hauls are made only when
a very low tide occurs; then the shellfish
are caught napping. A low tide is a rarity;
it may be years before those rocks are un-
covered again. The size of the shellfish
found in seldom uncovered rocks proves how
long they have grown in safety. Mutton-
fish vary from the size of a threepenny bit
to big fellows with 20 holes in their shells.
It is said they add a hole for every year
of their lives. The places where human
hands have touched are a long time in filling
up again, though one would think the peak
tides would take away all scent of human
fingers.
‘•Yarcoo”: One solitary post
is now all that remains of the
Hell-hole Hotel, the scene of a
tragedy of the early droving
days. The place stood on an
open patch, in the midst of a
dense cypress-pine scrub, and was
much favored as a camping-
ground by drovers until one
night a ghostly horse and rider
came rushing through the sleep-
ing camp from the tunnel-like
road that wound away among the
pines. The mob stampeded
badly, several were injured, and
others lost, not to be found
again. After that the trotting
cob and its white-clad rider were
seen on several occasions, and
always with the same result—a
bad stampede and cattle missing
in the morning. Drovers had
begun to give the Hell-hole camp
a wide berth when along came
Jim Smith with a mob of stores.
Jim wasn’t afraid of any Hell-
hole ghost, and said so loudly,
but when he took his position for
an all-night watch it was on tin-
side next to the road and a
revolver lay handy to his hand.
The cattle slept well, and near
midnight the drover was drows-
ing, when the cob came silentlv
and swiftly out of the pines, iii
an instant the bullocks were
away in a terror-stricken rush.
Regardless of the mob Smith
rode his hardest in pursuit of
the white-clad ghost, and after an
unheeded challenge drew his gun
and fired. When they removed
the vei-l and other fixings from
the body the publican’s face was
seen. H'e had hit on an in-
genious scheme for cattle-steal-
ing, but had tried it once too
often.
“Uramao”: Ratana’s methods
smack of those of the mediaeval
Church. He has twice placed
Wanganui under an interdict.
1 lie reason on each occasion was the same
in Wanganui the sacred person of the
prophet had been haled before the beak
for being under the influence of waipiro.
Recently, however, the boycott was relaxed
to the extent of nominating two of Ratana’s
prads for the races held in the town.
* * sis
“Porosus”: Even in crocodile-infested
country it is a rare thing to find a crocodile’s
nest. A fishing party at Alligator Creek,
near Townsville (N.Q.), had that experience
lately, coming across a new nest containing
the first laying of 40 eggs. Mrs. Croc, lays
from three to five batches in the season, but
for the reason that Mr. Croc, is uncommonly
fond of his offspring—in a gastronomic way
—makes several well-hidden nests in places
some distance apart. Townsville, close to
where the nest _ was found, can claim a
record no other city is likely to rival. Some
years ago a constable on duty late at night
saw what he thought was a drunk asleep
on the steps of the post office in the heart
of the town. When he came to rouse it he
found the sleeper to be a 7ft. crocodile.
Ross Creek, which runs through the town,
passes just behind the post office.
“Awani”: Claimed to be the most useful
tree in Australian history is a river. gum-
tree on the Lachlan frontage near Forbes
(N.S.W.), which was recently converted
into charcoal for a suction-gas plant by
D. Nicholas for use on his farm. The tree
produced 21 tons of charcoal at a cost of
£2 2s. 6d. per ton. Ploughing with a
PLENTY TIME, LITTLE FISH.
JACKIE: “ Breakjus-time ready?”
OLD BILLIE: “Yair, you kin have the time. This pfeller have the breakjus.”
tractor using petrol costs approximately
2s. 6d. to 3s. per acre, but by using pro-
ducer gas from charcoal it can be done for
about 7d. per acre, and Mr. Nicholas esti-
mates the gum-tree has saved him £378.
This exceeds the value of the giant cedar-
tree, the record-holder of tree values in the
old days when in some parts of the coastal
districts of N.S.W. cedar flitches were used
as currency.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Missionaries are not the only
ones to be blamed for introducing second-
hand clothing among savages. In the early
days quantities of cast-off clothing, often
uniforms, figured in the “trade” which ships
carried when running round the South’ Sea
Islands and Torres Strait; and to-day this
trade has become a big thing in some places.
There is a big London firm sending out
travellers to Africa and India whose special
line is old theatrical costumes. It was
founded by John Hyman (a well-known
theatrical costumer, of Leicester Square)
just before the war, and the counters of
the warehouse are piled high with the for-
mer -trappings of monarclis, musketeers and
showgirls. Hyman has lately sold out, but
the business is a flourishing one.
* * * *
“FY7”: Australia’s great wedge-tail
eagle has been cmivicted in many Abo. courts
of lamb-killing, in spite of energetic counsel
for the defence, and it would now
seem. as if he has added cattle-duffing
to his list of iniquities. A Murwil-
lumbah (N.S.W.) dairy-farmer was
recently puzzled by deep scratches on
the backs of some of his cattle, so ho
set a watch. This resulted in his
catching an eagle in the act of attack-
ing a young calf, which it was, appa-
rently, trying to lift off its feet. The bird
cleared out when the farmer came to the
rescue, but it had already injured the eyes
of the calf so badly that it had to ‘be
destroyed.
* ❖ * *
“Sandwich”: One of the Sydney dailies
made a more than usually interesting bloomer
the other day. It told of the stealing from
the museum of Gottingen University, in
Germany, of a Royal Hawaiian mantle,
fashioned of the feathers of “the extinct
dodo bird.” The dodo was a large and
clumsy fowl, confined to the island of Mau-
ritius. According to one or two rough
sketches supplied by the early navigators.
who wiped out the flightless birds, they were
rather bald objects with a few curly tail
feathers described as of a dark-brown color.
Ornithologists have deduced from examina-
tion of bones that they belonged to the
pigeon tribe, probably cousins of the greaf
flightless pigeon of Papua, the goura. The
royal cloaks of Hawaii were made of
millions of feathers from two tiny birds,
the most important being known as the molio.
The chiefs and kings made their subjects
pay their taxes and contributions in these
red and yellow feathers, with the result that,
by the time Captain Cook reached the
islands, the birds were extinct. The few
cloaks known to exist are priceless. Hawaii
itself possesses only one to-day.
* * *
“Cooramin” : During the drought, recently
broken, about the borders of Western
Queensland a couple of big station pro-
perties were abandoned to the drifting
sandsi, though they had weathered droughts
before. But that sort of thing is not un-
usual in those parts, where pastoralists put
all their trust in Providence and let oceans
of grass and water go to waste in the
good times. Many years ago Robert Donald-
son, one-time menhber for Tumut (N.S.W.),
was exploring along the border when he
came upon a deserte'd squattage in what he
thought was new . country, with hut, yards
and cattle on it. That was Roxburgh Downs,
on the Georgina, which had been abandoned
some time in the 1860’s with practically
everything on it. For years Binghi had been
in sole possession, and doing well on roast
beef. Westerners credit that early venture
with originating some of the wild herds in
that quarter.
, =:■ * * *
"E.S.”: Three lizards that show no fear
and seldom bother to get out of the way
are the shingleback, the jew-lizard and the
little fly-hunting geckos of the interior.
The shingleback, which brings forth its
young alive, is a sluggish creature that
seems too lazy to move, though it has
a great reputation as a snakekiller, for
which its strong jaws and armor-plated
body well fit it. But the jew-lizard is
alert and active, and can run at a smart
pace when it wants to. Usually it depends
on bluff _ for defence, raising its frill and
opening its wide yellow mouth, which gives
it a formidable appearance that belies its
quiet nature. I took one off a stump, and
carried it over a mile on my shoulder with-
out holding it, and it seemed quite con-
tented. Next day it was back on the
stump. The little geckos, which grow
to four or five inches long and an inch
broad, run about the walls and ceilings
catching flies. While lying on a bunk I have
watched them moving about on my legs and
body. These little chaps are so tame that
they can be carried about on the open hand.
AT THE BOULDER BLOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“' The l Golden Mile, I’m told,” said Bill, “has
■ lost its old-time glory now;
booner or later ev’ry field gets that experi-
ence, anyhow.
The yield has gotter fall at last; you can’t
put back the bloomin’ clock.
1 wonder how the beer trade goes to-day
upon the Boulder Block.
‘ The Dirty Acre once ’twas called, and
struth ! of dirt it showed its share,
■L ut the less those dingy stores and
crowded pubs were goldmines there.
Morn, noon and night, as shifts knocked off,
you d see the thirsty miners flock
lo wash the dust from out their throats in
swanky at the Boulder Block.
There s chaps the whole world o’er,” said
Bill, after a parching, strenuous day
Can breast the bar with right goodwill and
stow their pot or two away.
But there you’d almost hear it hiss, as fellers
fresh from belting rock
Or shovelling sands arrived to quench their
parches at the Boulder Block.
“ ’Twas pints, straight pints, and nothing
less. And when they left the drinker’s
grip
-The wouldn’t ha’ been enough to
give a blinkin’ fly a nip.
Morn, midnight, too, when whistles blew, the
sort of troops you’d label shock
ln wa r would form in line to storm the
pubs upon the Boulder Block.
“Some called the ’nineties roaring days. But
when the Mile was in its prime
It was the wages man that kept the beer-
pumps working overtime.
And many a Bung may well have sung with
honest glee, what time his stock
Ui malt and hops assuaged the thirst that
beat upon the Boulder Block.
“My oath !” said Bill, “I’ve had my share
T . • oI L Quartz—an’ pints as well.
It isntdike that underground I’ll ever do
another spell.
But still an’ all it seems to me the beer they
serve you now’s.a mock
Compared with what, when shifts came off
we sank upon the Boulder Block ”
N.s.w.
PIP ARDS.


THE PHANTOM FLEET.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
U
B
fjff B
*1
v t!
fra
» ( .t is
B
B.3
LB 11
iH
:
i
■
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried alrtiost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B5007.)
a
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauifleid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
ė
ę
ě
e
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
SMOKE-OH!
BROKER AND BROKER.
“Blank Blankson said he had been a broker and
well off, but now was quite unable to pay.”
When Blankson worked at broking, he was
anything but, broke,
Tie never failed to pay a lawful debt;
The bookies of his honesty with admiration
spoke,
He always settled when he lost a bet.
And then the great Depression broke. It
broke Blank Blankson up.
At last he had to break the painful fact
That he was broke. He quite broke down;
black sorrow filled his cup
As he performed that necessary act.
He’s still a well-known broker, though these
days he doesn’t broke
(That is, the little figures on his door) ;
In fact, as one result of the Depression’s
fatal stroke,
He’s infinitely broker than before.
THE SEARCH* PARTY.
One of the largest and most unsuccessful
parties of the year marked the close of
FRUITS OF INDUSTRY.
“And did Bill get all that
money through sheer hard
work?”
“Yes, every penny of it.
His father never left off
for so much as a day right
up to the moment he
died.”
Bridge Week.
The expedition
left Govern-
ment House
after a short
but reverent
service. Among
those present
were Girlie
Boost (one of
t h e Ivillara
Boosts) ; Mrs.
Ernie Splurge,
leader of the
Five Dock
Younger Set,
who recently
wrote an
article explain-
ing how a girl
of taste might
dress better
than Norma
Shearer on 2s.
6d. a week;
lovely 800
Lime - Chaser,
the Rose Bay
smart - setter,
who calls no
less than nine
gossip - hounds
by their Chris-
tian names;
and last, but
not least, Mrs.
Billy Ski t e,
whose unceas-
ing labors on
behalf of the
T u r r amurra
K i ndergarten,
the Surry Hills
Refuge, the Moore Park Tip, the Coogee
Old Men’s Home, the Bondi Young Men’s
Home, and any other charity that will let
her labor for it in return for a spot of free
publicity, are so well known. Also, about
3000 other female climbers and
self-advertisers, young and old.
Their object, which proved a
total failure, was to discover and
deposit a wreath on the hiding-
place of Sydney’s Unknown
Society Woman.
And another name for it since Wizard
Smith’s sojourn is the Ninety-mile Botch.
* *
Proud-arched across the tideway
This work of ours is set ;
It’s true we’ve bridged the harbor,
But can we bridge the debt?
* *
“Firemen extinguish blaze on Time.”
And, what’s more, they did it in time.
* *
“His art was unoriginal; in fact, in most of
his paintings he stole other men’s brains.”
He cared nothing about the canons of art
—only its rifles.
WHAT’S A NEWSPAPER READER TO
BELIEVE?
Monday. —Bavin is done. This is final,
and absolutely dinkum. At a secret meeting
last night the U.A.P. decided to ditch
Nationalism’s Old Man of the Sea, the mill-
stone who has been clinging limpet-like round
the neck of the Nationalist machine. Tom
will be placated with a job as S.M. and re-
placed by Reg. (“Won’t Wobble”) Weaver.
Tuesday. —Members of the U.A.P., high
and low, were delighted to learn of the
complete restoration to health of their well-
loved and inspiring leader, Mr. T. R. Bavin.
That he may live long to carry the banner
of sane citizenship, honesty, patriotism and
Worth in the forefront of the fray, as here-
tofore, is the earnest prayer of every true
King’s Man and anti-Communist in the
fair Mother State of New South Wales.
Wednesday. —ln an interview with , our
representative Colonel Eric Campbell said:
“I have nothing against tlie police, nothing
whatsoever. But why was Constable Blog-
gins driven ignominiously from the force for
telling the Rev. Huddle that the New Guard
was ‘good-oh’? Why was Constable Moidle
raised to the rank of sergeant the day after
he arrested my G. 5.0.1.? And what was
Moidle doing in Mudgee, anyhow? These
are questions that must and shall be
answered if the Grand General Staff of the
New Guard has to take up its quarters per-
manently in Government House, and wring
them from the reluctant throat of Autho-
rity."
,Thursday. —Commissioner Childs in an
interview with our representative said : “Con-
CO-OPERATION.
THE BOSS: “I’m sorry, William, but seeing
how things are, you’ll have to finish up
here on Saturday.”
THE CLEANER: “Lor, that’s pretty ’ard,
Mister, after 40 year odd!”
THE BOSS: “Yes, I know. But I’ll tell you
what! Lend me ten shillings and I’ll
take you into partnership!”
stable Bloggins has not been dismissed from
the force. He has never said the New Guard
is ‘good-oh,’ and denies all knowledge of
Rev. Huddle. Rev. Huddle telephoned this
morning and denied all knowledge of both
Constable Bloggins and Colonel Campbell.
Constable Moidle lias not figured in the pro-
motion lists for 17 month's, and has not been
to Mudgee for nine years. He denies all
knowledge of Colonel Campbell’s G. 5.0.1.,
and has made no arrests for the past six
weeks, having been in hospital recovering
from a serious illness.”
* y
There is a dish I love to face,
So when the time is ripe
I sell good verse for lucre base
And turn it into tripe.
TRAGEDY AT DOGLEG BEND.
Tragedy came like a thunderclap to Dog-
leg Bend.
The big, simple fellows of the two-up ring
stayed the tossing of
their double-headed
pennies. The great-
hearted lads of the
poker school missed
palming the aces for
two deals. The pat-
riarchs closed down
their illicit stills.
For down in his
humble hut where the
little creek crooned
an eternal lullaby.
Big Bill lay—dead !
lie thought he had
a sporting chance
but the odds were
against him.
Bill had choked
while trying.to swal-
low the betting slips
when his s.-p. joint
was raided. And
Dogleg Bend was
sad unto tears. Bill
had gone to a set-
tling-up that was no
damn good to them!
y y
“Tariffs cut down.”
Or, alternatively,
the Lyons Shear.
y *
PASSION.
As the matron left
the ward the young
nurse looked excit-
edly at the new
patient, tier moment
had come.
He smiled at her.
In a second her arms
were-about him. She
half raised him,
pressed him to her
bosom, and smoth-
ered his face with kisses. “You dear! ’ she
gasped. “You darling!” And again she
crushed him to her.
The returning footsteps of the matron
sounded outside. Hastily composing herself,
the nurse dumped young Augustus, aged
four weeks, back in his cot.
. * *
“Rabbits become very lively if given salt.”
On the other hand, sugar is chiefly respon-
sible for the activity of tin hares.
y. y.
“Lindrum told an interviewer that he had no
desire for a long life.”
So he won’t mind making a break for
Heaven when his time comes,
y *
“Do movie actresses make good., wives.” — “Sun.”
Dunno; but it’s understood that they often
make bad husbands.
y ¥
“A Masonic gathering was held at the Leicester
Lounge.”— Cable.
The Leicester Lounge being on the
Square, of course.
PROFESSION AL*CONDUCT.
“Motor-car accident; actor acts bravely.”
Now. whenever the teller tells the story,
making it plane to the carpenter, the sailor
claps on sail, the artist draws a long breath
and the policeman’s behavior arrests atten-
tion.
* *
“Respondent had been seen one night with the
co-re. at three restaurants. He then went home.”
For' something to eat. no doubt.
Truth in advertising as exemplified in
Brisbane “Telegraph”
Rugby tourer .in excellent order throughout.
This is the cheapest light tourer we know of and
will not last long.
“In the fight for those mythical but very won-
derful Ashes, it will not surprise me if Australia
finishes second.”
—Don Bradman, in “Sunday Sun.”
Is this a hint of the danger that menaces
our boys from that bane of modern athleti-
cism writer’s cramp?
COMING ATTRACTIONS.
1932 Talkie Releases.
“The Loan Wolf.”—A product of the
Macquarie-street Studios. A powerful 100
per cent, shoutie, starring “Big Jack,” the
Pollywood matinee idle. The story of a
strong, red-blooded he-man’s battle against
the sinister machinations of middle-aged
bankers. Watch the gallant efforts of the
hero to raise a loan on the security of an
£S,000,00() overdraft. Trapped in the toils
of the evil Melbourne Council, his magni-
ficent fight for the gold-enslaved proletariat
is rewarded at long last by his unqualified
acceptance of his sworn enemies’ conditions.
Talkie directed by U. Nion Secretaries.
ONE THING AT A TIME.
“But, my dear woman, we’ve been to the caves.”
“Oh, yes — but that was on my honeymoon. Now I want to
have a look, at the place.”
“The Aldermaniacs” (Kay T. Lee pro-
ductions). —Featuring the inimitable slap-
stick-at-nothing Glasgie comedians Donald
and Jock. Their droll humor in debate,
their uproarious travesty on civic badmin-
istration, their screamingly funny Domain
duets, “Bonny Scotland’s A’Reecht, but Its
Unionists Are Canny,” and “We’ll A’ Be
K.B.E.’s Before We Dee” ; their clever “Dance
of the Wageplugs’ Levies” on the bonnet of
Jock’s limousine, are screams, one and all.
Truly nothing like them has been seen in
civic partnership before.
“Travels of the ’Seventy-fives.”—A Big
Game talkie taken in the Wilds of Canberra.
Realistic scenes of lip-shooting at white
elephants in the F.C.T. jungle. Amazing
close-ups of Lyons and cubs in their un-
natural habitat. You will see the fascinating
new industry of spat-making by the natives.
Watch the small but gallant Beasley Expedi-
tion lost in a maze of contradictions and
recriminations. The whole thing will make
you shudder with its stark realism, giving
you a sinking feeling in the pocket. Extended
season for three years (the management
hopes).
* *
Man’s will-power seldom stands out for
long against woman’s wail-po'wer.
¥ ¥
“Mr. Elswood, who is an authority on rare
editions, claims that he has paid for his travels
to all parts of the world by buying and selling
books.’’
Booking his passage everywhere, as it
were.
* *
Judging by the shipping strikes Australia
has too many seafearing men in its mer-
cantile marine.
WIRELESS TROUBLE.
Hello, hello! 288 speaking
we are now switching over ti
Randwick racecourse, where yon
will hear the debate on the third
reading of the Grinmakers’ Dance
Band playing the items of to-
morrow’s programme. The weather
bureau’s special report says
cloudy and sultry with lace round
the edge and only nine and
eleven at McWhosit’s in Pitt-
street. They are now lining up
at the barrier to play you
Mendelssohn’s Spring Song flat on
your back and take three deep
breatfts. Bradman is now facing Grimmett,
who will give a lecture on the Habits of the
Octopus in the tenth round at the Stadium.
Mr. Lang is riding Ammon Ra. His colors
are a dazzling white that can only be secured
by using Bestdie, obtainable at the R.M.S.
Strathnaver, departing to-morrow at noon.
Lindbergh’s baby is reported found at the
Vice-Regal Dance Palais by Miss Daphne
Ilighup, soprano. Many happy returns,
Tommy Horner. Look under your pillow
and you will find “Green with Passion,”
starring Alphonse Marmaduke and now
showing at the salerooms in Pyrmont.
Twenty-two bales of this very handy little
device can be picked up any day at Ding-
bat’s Bargain Basement. Yes, the numbers
are up. The result of the March Handicap
is tomatoes, a shilling to three shillings;
beans, a shilling to four shillings; and a toe-
hold which will be hard to escape from. On
the other side of that record is marble
number 00739, manufactured by the Bunyip
Wire Fence Co. We will continue the serial
story to-morrow night. Good night every-
one.
S. ESQ.
PAEAN.
Thick lips, weak eyes, lank hair and, oh,
That nose of species aquiline!
Lean arms and nether limbs that bow —
What symmetry, what curves divine!
Sweetheart, those charms enthral me. Non;
I’m deaf to spiteful gibe and snigger;
I am the bond-slave of your figure —
Dame Rumor says ’tis fifteen thou.!
P. O. M. C.


again set the Standard
for Broadcast Reception
-
E 8&
■
INTERSTATE RECEPTION WITHOUT AN AERIAL
NO NOISE. NO INTERFERENCE.
THE FISK SERIES
è
9
■; xv
I
■ ■■ gj S;jJ
iltlfBl 1 Bills I 11
H
an
n
■
iss
Hi
Strikingly attractive walnut cabinet of distinctly
modern design with a beautiful hand-rubbed finish.
If
Equipped with Radiotrons
Easy Terms Available
Successor to the famous
RADIOLA 45e of which
nearly 10/000 were sold
in 1931
The Radiola 55E gives interstate
reception without an aerial and
operates silently and without in-
terference. Its design has been
personally supervised by Mr.
E. T. Fisk, Australia’s greatest
authority on wireless; also well
known for his experimental and
practical work in the science of
acoustics and inventions for noise
elimination.
The Radiola 55E, using six valves
(including Rectifier), Radiotron
Variable MU and Pentode valves,
has many new and advanced radio
engineering features.
This superb Radiola brings to you
the most faithful reproduction of
radio programmes, local and inter-
state, without an aerial.
VALUE
PERFORMANCE
é
PRODUCT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Inc. in N.S.W.


THE BRIDGE
AND
ITS BUILDERS
THE name of the engineer who designed
the most important feature of the
Bridge will never be known. He was
the man who pioneered the arch.
The first bridges were the trunks of trees
felled across streams; later on supporting
pillars were used when the stream was too
wide or the tree-trunks too short. It. was the
Romans who applied the arch to bridge i\oik,
and in the Trajan days were responsible
for some amazing masonry : on the Danube
you can still find the ruins of a bridge
which had 20 piers 150 ft. high, with a space
of as much as 170 ft. between them. Britain
has one —-in Lincolnshire —built about the
year 860; but the ascent is so steep that
only foot passengers can use it. There is
another, built three centuries later, ovei the
Trent at Burton, which had 34 arches, the
whole structure being 1545 ft. long very
nearly the length of the Sydney bridge.
The masonry arch bridge was, in fact, the
world’s bridge where permanence was sought
until well past a hundred years ago.
But the age of iron and steel was already
damning; and the minds of the engineers
went back to the primitive bridges, first ot
vines and then of cordage, suspended o\ ei
streams, usually from tree to tree. W hat
had been done with cordage could be done
with chains; what was done with chains
could be done with steel ropes. Thus the
great Telford bridged the Menai Strait at
Anglesea in 1825; and the principle was
adopted even in such vast works as the
Hammersmith Bridge over the Thames, orna-
mental towers taking the place of the tree-
tops of our ancestors.
With the development of the iron and
steel industries came the girder, the truss
and the cantilever bridges, with many varia-
tions of each. The cantilever, which had
been used in the Forth Bridge, was still
favored for long spans when the question of
bridging Sydney Habor was seriously con-
sidered in the opening days of the century.
It was that type which Dr. Bradfield origin-
ally recommended; but during a tour of
Europe and America he learned that there
were contractors who would be prepared to
build an arch-type bridge. He therefore
provided for both in his specifications; his
estimate of the cost of an arch of the class
he wanted was £4,339,530; of a cantilever,
£4,704,840.
It very nearly happened that the accepted
plans were never even submitted to the
N.S.W. Government. Mr. Ralph Freeman
was consulting engineer for the Cleveland
Bridge Co. when tenders were invited; and
he prepared plans in conformity with the
specification which Dr. Bradfield had drawn
up. However, only a few weeks before the
time for posting the tender, the managing
director of tlie Cleveland Bridge Go. died;
whereupon tlie other directors decided not
to go any further. Freeman liked the
design, and urged it would be a great pity
to waste it. The remaining directors agreed,
and suggested that Freeman should take his
work to Dorman, Long and Co. A meeting
was at once arranged; Freeman met Sir
Arthur Dorman (chairman). Sir Hugh Bell
(vice-chairman) and Mr. Lawrence Ennis
(general manager of the co.’s works at
Middlesborough). Within an hour they had
decided to put in an offer; and when pre-
sently the offer was accepted it was Mr.
Ennis who was sent to Australia to sign
the contract on behalf of the co. Two days
later he was on his way back to England.
Both Sir Arthur Dorman and Sir
Hugh Bell, the directors of the co., who
agreed to take over the design and plans
which had been made for the Cleveland Co.,
died while the bridge was being built.
Actually Dorman, Irnng and Co., Ltd., put
in seven tenders for the bridge. They offered
ARTHUR GRIFFITH.
three types—the arch and cantilever, the
alternatives specifically mentioned in the
advertisement calling for tenders, and a
cantilever-arch. The firm tendered for the
work with and without pylons; but as in
those days a quarter of a million was neither
here nor there, a design for a two-hinged
arch bridge with pylons was chosen.
The contract was signed on March 29,
1924; and on Jan. 5, 1925,- excavations were
begun for the main bearings and approach-
span piers. Simultaneously the work of
opening up the granite quarries at Moruya
was started, and great workshops were built
near the northern terminus of the bridge.
This work having been got under way,
preparations were made for building the
arch itself. There is not much trouble
about a rigid arch after you’ve got it built;
the problem is how to suspend the work
before the two half-arches meet in the middle
and support one another. When you are
proceeding to build an arched doorway you
first carve out a wooden support. Nothing
of that sort was possible here. The place
of the wooden support was taken by steel
cables, 128 of them to each half-arch,
each cable consisting of 217 wires, with
a diameter of 2fin., up to 1200 ft. long
and S tons weight, and capable or
supporting over 400 tons, though the
calculations allowed for a maximum stress
of 115 tons —the balance was a reserve for
J. J. C. BRADFIELD.
emergencies. These cables held back the
completed sections of the half-arches as they
crept out over the water, being anchored to
the solid rock in a liorseslioe-shaped under-
lay shaft 132 ft. deep, These cables had
to' hold back in all 30,000 tons of metal;
each half-arch weighs approximately
15,000 tons. The total weight of steel m
the main span, including/ the deck, is
38,000 tons.
The first signs of bridge-building that the
eager watchers from the ferries saw were a
pair of huge spider-work scaffolds, one on
either side; and upon these the overhead
portion on the firm land_ was built. Hut
the work done on shore, in the brief space
between the pylons and the waters edge,
was not particularly spectacular. It was,
however, enormously important- it had
indeed to carry the whole weight of the
bridge; and not only to carry the weight
of the bridge vertically, but to keep the
huge weight from thrusting the arms of the
arch outwards; for between the top of the
arch and the water is a great vacuum, and
“nature abhors a vacuum.” Here, then, are
really the feet the bridge stands on— main
bearings,” the engineers call them; and the
total thrust sustained by each bearing or
foot is 19.700 tons. .
Each' of the “feet” rests on what is called
a “skewback” foundation, a mass of con-
crete laid down in hexagonal formation.
The “feet” themselves, or main bearings,
consist of afi assembly of steel castings and
forgings, the weight of each bearing being
296 tons. The construction of these bear-
ings was regarded as one of the most deli-
cate parts of the whole job, notwithstanding
their extreme massiveness. The total thrust
to be sustained by the four bearings under
live-load conditions is 78,800 tons.
The “skewbacks,” already spoken ot, are
90ft x 40ft., two at each end, sunk into
the rock 40ft. The concrete mix was
1: 15-: 4 for the mass, with special mix-
tures (1: 1: li and 1: f: 2*) under the
main bearings; the stone used was crushed
granite. The load on the concrete at the
base of the bearings is 8001 b. per sq., inch;
the load on the foundation rock, 40tt. below,
is 15 tons per sq. foot.
But the arch could not be fastened rigidly
to these bearings. It contracts and expands
with varying temperatures: it is built there-
fore on hinges, which played a. very im-
portant part towards the completion of the
arch. When the lower part of the two
arms were completed, they were still
3ft. 6in. apart. Then the cables holding
back the gigantic weight were slackened very
slowly, and the arch sank till the two ends
came together. That was in _ the late after-
noon; and though it was in late wnnter,
there was a sufficient fall in the temperature
to make a slight opening again by eight
o’clock. However, the cables were further
slackened, and the final closure was made
at ten o’clock that night (Aug. 19, 1930).
That was thei most critical three days in the
building of the bridge.
Allowance has, of course, been made for
much greater effects of heat and cold than
any which have been experienced. Pro-
vision has been made for a deck-expansion
of 161 in. A grid of plates sliding into one
another will, however, take up the move-
ment at the centre of
the bridge, so that traf-
fic will not notice the
opening at low tempera-
tures. The arch itself
rises and falls on its
hinges, the total expected
variation being 14in.
Think of it! These
two great masses of
steel, in 14 panels each,
had to be built, canti-
lever fashion, over the
water, to meet in the
centre. Some great en-
gineering jobs have been
done in the mines of
Australia. But this was different. All sorts of
forces were tugging at the two great masses,
each composed of thousands of different
members, every fraction of the metal of which
they were composed continually expanding or
contracting, with the expansion always by
day a little greater on the western s de;
wind exerting, too, a tremendous drag. It
was not humanly possible, it was believed,
to bring the two arms together without a
fractional variation as to either height or
direction, or both. For the correction of
alignment pilot-pins had been provided on
one side and diaphragms on the other;
these, fitting into one another, were to bring
the two arms together as the cables were re-
leased. In fact, they were hardly needed.
Just before the union of the two occurred,
when the two half-arches were like antennae
feeling their way into space, being still
3ft. Gin. apart, there was a great gale,
striking the arms broadside. It was a wild
night of great strain for the engineers, who
with instruments watched the “swaying'’ of
the antennae. Never did they move more
than 3in. from alignment.
After the arch came the comparatively
simple job of building the “deck” —the bridge
itself. “Hangers” were dropped from the
arch, and on these the deck was suspended.
The longest of these .supports are 193 ft.,
weighing 38 tons. The bridge itself is 17ft.
higher at the middle than at the ends, the
rise being necessary to get a clearance of
170 ft. from high-water mark. This clear-
ance of 170 ft. is available for a distance of
300 ft. along the Bridge.
The maximum height of the crown of
the arch above high water is 437 ft. 6in. The
depth of the trusses at the crown (that is
to say, the depth of the arch at its shallow-
est point) is 60ft.: the depth at the end
posts, 187 ft. 9in. The headway for shipping
is 172 ft. Gin. The bridge carries four lines
of railway, a roadway 57ft. wide and two
footways 10ft. wide. ‘ The total width over
all is 160 ft. The pylons rise 285 ft. above
sea level; from ground to deck level they
are more strictly abutment towers —hollow
rectangular concrete chambers 223 ft. face
width and 162 ft. long, stiffened by interior
concrete walls; above deck level they are
81ft. x 47ft. All this masonry is granite-
faced, to match the piers of the approach
spans.
The Birth of the Bridge.
By ARTHUR GRIFFITH, the
Minister in the first N.B.W. Labor
Government who had the building of
. the bridge referred to the Works
Committee.
UP to the time of the formation of the
McGowen Government the subject of
a Harbor Bridge was little more than
a civic aspiration, the support of which
was of some value to political candidates
on the north side of the Harbor. With
the object of bringing the matter into the
realm of practical politics, I selected Mr.
RALPH FREEMAN.
Bradfield (then occupying a relatively
subordinate position in my department) to
take charge of the matter on behalf of the
Government. In 1911 I carried through
Parliament a resolution authorising the sub-
mission of the proposal to the Public Works
Committee for investigation and report;
and, guided largely by Mr. Bradfield’s advice,
the Committee in 1913 reported in favor of
the erection of a cantilever bridge to connect
Sydney with the Northern Suburbs. I also
placed in Mr. Bradfield’s hands the construc-
tion of the City Railway; and, realising
that, however deeply he had studied the sub-
ject, his knowledge would be amplified and
modernised by inspection of the great bridges
in existence in Britain and America, and
by discussion of the subject with the leading
engineers in these countries, I authorised
his making a world tour for this purpose.
As a result of the experience gained on
this and a subsequent trip. Mr. Bradfield
modified his views and came to the conclu-
sion that an arch bridge would be practic-
able, less expensive and more serviceable
than would one of the cantilever type.
Based on Mr. Bradfield’s report, the per-
manent head of the department (Mr. T. B.
Cooper) made the following submission to
my successor, the then Minister: —
It will be noted that new varieties of steel for
bridge construction are now available, and Mr. Brad-
field considers that in the extended invitation for
tenders provision should be made for submission of
alternative prices for the arch type, as he is aware
that several firms are prepared to take the respon-
sibility of erecting an arch span of 1600 feet. Such
a proposal would, in his opinion, show advantages
both in the matter of cost and construction.
The Minister approved Mr. Bradfield’s re-
commendation and tenders were called
accordingly on specifications prepared by
him.
The completeness of the work done by Mr.
Bradfield is shown by the fact that prior
LAWRENCE ENNIS.
to the opening of the tenders he had defi-
nitely worked out the details and design ol
the arch bridge and supplied to the ten-
derers full particulars of the quantities ana
prices of the material to be used. 1 ins fact
is proved by the following extract irom the
Under Secretary’s submission to the Minister :
Prior to the opening of tenders, Mr. Bradfield
handed me a sealed envelope which 1 subsequently
handed to the Minister just prior to the opening of
tenders, containing his Anal estimate for the respec-
tive types of bridge—cantilever and arch —the figures
for the cantilever being £4,704,840 and for the
arch £4,339,530, as covering the work actuany
embraced in the tenders now under review.
The Under Secretary further submitted to
his Minister: —
Although Mr. Bradfield has not referred to the
matter in his report, I think it desirable to point
out at this stage, as already mentioned to the
Minister, that the method adopted in the calling
of the tenders, viz., designing the structure in the
main essential but leaving it to tenderers to incor-
porate their own specialty in the matter of manu-
facture and details, has saved the State anything
approximating £150,000 and has resulted in most
satisfactory tenders being received.
The proposals made by Mr. Bradfield have been
subjected to the most searching investigation by the
leading bridge engineers and designers of the world,
as associated with the firms tendering, and in this
connection I desire to refer to a statement contained
in a communication accompanying the tenders of
Sir Wm. Arrol and Company, which is to the tol-
-I<>V‘‘\ve have lodged our designs and tenders (canti-
lever and arch) for the proposed bridge in accord-
ance with the specification, plans and general con-
ditions issued by your engineer, and we can suggest
nothing better than Mr. Bradfield has put before us.
The facts stated above are contained in
the departmental papers, and if they stood
alone would suggest that Dr. Bradfield did
the whole of the work of designing the
bridge, and that all the contractors had to
do was to construct a bridge according
thereto; but this conclusion would be mis-
leading, as there are other facts materially
modifying any such conclusion. First, there
is the fact 'that the contractors tendered
on a design materially modified by their
er .ineers, the most important of such mocli-
fi ations consisting in a reduction of the
i. mber of panels from 33 to 28 and a dimi-
nution in the rise of the arch, by _2oft. Th
modified design must have been either better
than or at least as good as the original one,
otherwise it would not have been accept-
able to Dr. Bradfield.
.Clearly such modifications would entail
alterations in the sizes and shapes of the
panels, and would necessitate fresh calcu-
lations of the strains and stresses and even
of the sizes of the members. Whether such
modifications did or did not constitute in
effect a new design and justify Mr I rec-
man’s statement that if Dr. Bradfield had
produced a photograph of Hell Gate Bridge
and said: “This is the kind of thing we
want, but enlarged to suit our span and rail-
ways ” lie would have conveyed more to
the contractors tendering, is a point on
which I will not venture an opinion;
and I find that experienced engineers differ
radically on the issue. But as a layman pos-
sessing ' considerable administrative experi-
ence in the carrying out of large public
works. I think that designing a bridge does
not consist in merely selecting a particular
type of bridge or in working out the details
to fit that type of bridge to the stresses to
which it will be subject. The designing ol
a bridge seems to me to consist, firstly, m
selecting the type best suited for the loca-
tion, having in view the topography, head-
room required, approaches and other factors,
and then adapting that type to the loading
and traffic it will have to bear. This adap-
tation consists in the arrangement of the
decking or roadway to accommodate rail,
tram, vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the
relative positions of the various traffic
avenues in view of access at both ends and
the manner of suspending the roadway from
the arcli and supporting it on the arch
abutments. All these and many other con-
siderations seem to me to constitute work-
ing out the design of the bridge, and these
Dr. Bradfield did. The working out of
details appears to me to be extraneous to
the question of design, though admittedly
of paramount importance to the safety of the
structure.


SONGS OF OUR OWN LAND
Cedar Bay.
I mind it well.
The jungle drops quite steeply to the bay,
Where is a crescent flat, well grassed and
edged
With palms and she-oaks leaning from the
sea.
Great boughs bent over, set in wave-lapped
sand,
Form a dim colonnade; on either hand
Beach-lilies blooming. Through each dusky
tree
Are white and amber jewels—orchids ledged
To light the crannies of the enchanted way.
No storms are there;
Only the sun by day, the stars by night,
And the sweet breeze that stirs the fragrant
green,
And swift salt airs from faery isles afar;
The wavelets crooning to the listening land,
Leaving soft kisses on the enraptured sand,
Sighing and fretting at the coral bar.
Back from the shore the glittering hills
a-sheen
Support the sky, ascending height on height.
And the dear creek
(Circling around the mountain base and so
By leafy ways to find the dreaming sea),
Shallow and clear, where little fishes swim
About the horses’ hoofs, then dart away;
Where deeply hidden wildwood creatures play
On marsh and islet, and upon the brim
The cassowary feeds —a monarch he
Standing, in beauty, crested head aglow.
The camp we pitched
Beneath the talking trees close to the shore;
The beat of homing-pigeon wings at eve
Close overhead, the lonely curlew’s cry,
The great moon swinging to the purple
dome... .
Ah! it is Paradise, my Northern home!
Peace spreads her mantle ’ncath the brooding
sky,
Beauty and joy their spells in silence weave,
And all my love is there for evermore.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
The Rain-bird Comes Again.
Your long, loud note from the top
Of your twilight tree
Seems to drop
To the sea,
Repeating
And defeating
Its own echo, while,
With the curve of a smile,
The tide runs in, high and more high,
As if in answer to your cry.
Flustered with flying foxes sinister
As evil thoughts in dissolute old men,
The drowsy banyans dodder in the blur
Of their own gloom, and feebly doze again.
The moist, promiscuous jungle clasps the hill
With that insidious harlotry which dims
Exhaustion into mournfulness until
The leaves of trees are sleep along the
limbs.
Reluctant aphrodisiacs of dusk
Make perfume of the mingled day and
dark,
Half sweet, half acrid with the pungent musk
From pallid blossoms of the paperbark.
Call down, then,
If you must,
Again
A gust
Of my despairs
Of years!
Far lonelier than a lover’s woes,
Vague as the smile of a loon,
The sea and sky, a gutted shell, disclose
A pearl, the risen moon.
The rain-tree on the cliff has said
The prayers its grief demands,
Each blossom now a flaxen fairy head
Asleep on folded hands. -
Afar the lightning rushes out
Along a grumbling cloud;
The air lies quiet as crossed hands devout
And perfect on a shroud.
Call! —prophesy
The yearly deluge; cry
For those lean lightnings, famished hounds,
To follow the monsoon on its rounds
And soon to tear
Dead sunsets into offal there!
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
Autumn.
Autumn rains, the sudden fall, or drifting
misty days,
The drip and rustle down the rows, deep
green upthrusting leaf,
The swaying sturdy stems, in line across
all ways—
They grow, Oh, eagerly they grow, the
shadowed loam beneath!
Mine it is at close of day, my tools on
shoulder packed,
To walk these leafy arches, and to see
Down break great purple flowers, to watch
each bract
Uncurl, unfold, the new-born bunch set
free.
Let those who wish in crowded towns con-
trive !
I cleared this land, and ploughed and
tilled.
Behold these thousand slaves for me that
strive,
And gladly live and die, their work ful-
filled !
QUEENSLAND.
RALPH W. ADENEY.
Frangipanni.
King’s gold and ivory beyond the dreams of
avarice!
Nor frankincense and myrrh, I ween, were
ever sweet as this,
Nor spell of jasmine wind at dawn when
Earth and Heaven kiss.
Frangipanni on a Brisbane lawn!
A voice for ever crying in the wilderness
of years,
Through broken arches of a dream’s pro-
phetic hopes and fears,
Has grown articulate to-day to straining
human ears....
Frangipanni on a Brisbane lawn!
Did Chance or Love ingenerate keep such
argosy for prize
From moneychangers in the gates, from toll
of merchandise,
That very God might set Ilis seal of wonder
in your eyes,
Frangipanni on a Brisbane lawn?
And I, a beggar in the street, of dross or
dream denied,
Might feel enchanted gates beneath a wizard
hand swing wide
On more than Caesar’s empery or Midas’
gilded pride....
Frangipanni on a Brisbane lawn !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Heat Haze.
I love that gentle, onyx tinted haze
That hangs upon the hills on summer days.
It makes me think
Of girls in white robosas going down
A long-forgotten stair
In an old Mayan town,
With flowers in their hair,
And heads as beautiful as those
On ancient coins; poising with flawless
grace
The glazed red water-jar above each ivory
face.
It makes me think
Of little, purple-shadowed streets
Where balconies
Lean to each other as though gossiping,
And wisps of cotton, pinned upon a string,
Dry in the orange light,
While filtering in,
Like a lost minstrel’s lay between the walls,
The wistful droning of a violin
Shudders and falls.
And it revives
Upon a silver shore an ancient prow
Carven with scrolls some warrior long ago
Wrought with flint chisel in his swarthy
hands.
His bones are long built over by the reef,
And darting fires of red and azure flash
Above them, like the nebulae of dreams —
Deep, stirring dreams
Of longing, such as led him forth,
One of the first of Maori voyagers!
Then it brings back
Sharp-featured men that, shadowed to the
chin
With the wide brims of old and faded felts,
Sway in the saddle half asleep, heat-dazed,
Looking for lost cattle, with perhaps
A boy behind, his dark, mysterious eyes
Deep in a dream of tribal ritual.
O, drowsing in
This wine-hued glamor of the Austral noon,
With the parched brown hills in gold-leaf
sheathed
Like mummied queens,
I find Guianas such as Raleigh saw
Out of his lofty prison on the Thames,
And people them
With mantled princes such as came to him.
Firing his heart with tales of rape and war
And glittering palaces upon a lake.
Thought makes me bold.
There is no quest I could not undertake
Faring forth into this trembling haze.
This powdered essence of gold summer days!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Hills of Lome.
No stories whisper through the silence
Of the hills of Lome.
Lack they all the lovelinesses
Older lands have borne?
Down the slopes of smooth Parnassus
Stray most glorious ghosts,
And all about the Adriatic
Sail far, lovely hosts.
Further north among the forests
Gnomes ride every breeze,
Twisted fairies haunt the branches:
Here are quiet trees.
In England every sweet green corner
A tale of lovers fills;
Are no mysterious memories
Wafting round these hills?
Ah, when we are gone who knows not
From among tree-ferns tall
A lubra slips to stand beneath
The cold clear waterfall.
With deep soft eyes and slim young breasts
And orchids in her hair,
Lithe and still as an animal
And all her black skin bare?
Or down that rocky slope a horde
Of men, black-gleaming and young,
Rush to the chase? Ah, these
Are songs that have never been sung!
But soft dark eyes and breasts, lean thighs
Are one with the wild birds’ trills,
And the rocks and the fall and the green
of the trees
And the primitive earth of the hills
VICTORIA.
JEAN IRWIN.
A Broken Melody.
There is a garden where tall palm-trees sway
Their ragged shadows over flower-decked
lawns
And gardens, where soft-tinkling waters play.
Here, mid things foreign to his wild, bush
ways—
Trim walks and earven features in the
gloom
Of strange-shaped trees —a lonely magpie
strays.
Upon the sundial’s rim, while noonday dies,
With one claw tucked beneath his glossy
wing,
He dreams the hours away, with half-shut
eyes.
Perhaps his dreams are of gaunt gum-trees,
tall,
With straggling limbs, beside a lonely
creek;
Perhaps his fancy hears his kindred call.
No beauty in the garden can lie see;
For him the stern, wild grandeur of the
bush!
A peacock’s grace would here more fitting be.
Sometimes, with head thrown back, quite
suddenly,
As though he half-forgets his captive state,
He breaks into his wild, sweet melody.
I wait, expectantly, to hear again
The bird-song dearest to my bush-bred
heart.
But ah! it falters and I wait in vain.
Always it ends ere yet its sweetness rings;
For cultured beauty has no power to wake
This wild song, fitting only for wild things.
Oh, for your songs’ sake, I would set you
free,
You sweetest songster of the great, wide
bush!
It hurts my heart, your broken melody.
N.S.W.
JOSIE S. PRICE.
Sanctuary.
In this cool place
A grey gum holds its long arms to the sky,
Weaving a shadow delicate as lace
Over the grass where little wild-flowers lie.
Among green brothers, flames one leaf of red ;
The creek runs onward, purposeless as
fate.
In some dim privacy far overhead
A bird gives happy answer to its mate.
If you were here
You would but rob me of these gentle
things,
Steal from the day its wonder, now so
dear—
You who are color, song and rustling
wings!
How could I watch leaf-shadows thread the
grass
When I might touch your softly-shadowed
face?
The little winds that whisper as they pass,
What were they worth if love lay in this
place ?
Your laugh, your words
Would lightly drift like little leaves blown
free
From some bright branch which bore them;
and the birds
Make unheard music in each friendly
tree.
Pale memory of beauty thus I hold
Unbroken by your coming. I have had
This lovely, lonely day of green and gold
Unravaged. Do you doubt that I am glad?
QUEENSLAND.
D. L. WARAKER.
The Oat Paddock.
The fields are white to the oaten harvest,
White and weltering into gold;
With a south wind smoothing and stroking
down
The feathery myriads, stalk and crown,
Stoop, lean low till you hear the muted
Rhythm of murmurous miles unrolled!
For all of the undulating acres
Are strung with infinitesimal bells,
Shivering column and swaying steeple,
Lilting peals for the Little People,
Tinkling sound and a trembling silence,
Threading the fairy citadels.
The fields are white to the oaten harvest,
And the frail star-blossoms are spread
abroad,
Hidden in grassy groves and covers,
A thousand loves for a thousand lovers,
Ardent bees and uncertain butterflies
Filching the wild-weed’s careless hoard.
Outspread wings of the wide cloud-shadows
Sailing over an inland sea,
Floating over the farthest narrow
Path of the long dividing furrow,
Where the field mouse runs and the fiddling
cricket
Scrapes a summertime symphony.
The magpies call from the ringbarked
timber;
I hear, but I cannot heed the tune;
For earth is a vague enchanted place.
A star suspended ’twixt space and space
In the blue-roofed heart of the oaten har-
vest,
All on a golden afternoon.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
In the City.
Here is my world as I bought it
With pain of the strong savage years;
Here the broad Life as I sought it,
Full measured with laughter and tears. .
Beyond the far rim of the ranges,
Like the blue of an old china toy,
Unyielding to time and its changes,
Is the world where I dreamed when a boy.
Ah, would that my soul could recapture,
As a full-throated lark wins above,
That heart-thrilling, exquisite rapture
Of youth on the pinions of love—
One moment of upsweeping glory,
As a star on its arrogant way,
Ere I come to the end of Life’s story,
Ere I swoon at the close of the day.
If such supplication can reach Thee,
Dear God, in Thy infinite ruth,
Give me back, give me back, I beseech Thee,
One day of my clean-hearted youth—
The pearly-white gleam of the dawning,
The black magpie’s soft-fluted call,
The blue dome’s celestial awning,
The green where the sun-splashes fall.
Give me these, with the plaint of the plover,
The curlew’s faint cry on the breeze,
Red cattle, brown earth and the clover,
And the deep purple shade of the trees;
The little bush sehoolhouse, the homing
With playmates released from our task,
The dear ones who waited my coming—
Ah, God, it is much that I ask!
N.S.W.
TAL. ORDELI.
At Long Last.
I’ll quit the town at .end of day
And down the long miles swiftly go—-
Go cheerily with spirits gay,
No matter how the winds may blow.
Though cold it blow from north or south,
Or east or west, I shall not care;
I’ll think alone of her red mouth
And of the fireshine on her hair.
I’ll take the track across the sands,
No matter how the tide may be;
I’ll think alone of her white hands
With warmth of love outstretched to me.
Though ebb the tide or flow the tide,
’Tis little that I’ll care for it;
Sure comfort by her red fireside
I'll find, as there with her I sit.
I .shall not heed the sea’s wild voice,
Nor hear in it a warning drear;
For in my heart—“ Rejoice, rejoice!”
A something shall be chanting clear.
Straight through the swamp grass, tall and
harsh,
Where waterfowl, gloom hidden, call,
Though dry or flooded be the marsh,
I shall push on whate’er befall.
For mire or creek, or rock or dune.
I vow I shall not slow my pace;
Though bright the moon or dim the moon,
I shall not pause a moment’s space.
On, on, I’ll speed with heart and will
Through bracken wet, wet vines and
boughs,
Till I have topped the timbered hill
Whereon is built her little house.
I shall not knock upon her door,
But thrust it wide, and watch her rise
slowly cross the firelit floor,
Warm welcome in her glowing eyes.
Like music from some violin
A master plays, her speech shall prove;
For she will say: “Come in, come in—
At long last you have come, my love!”
So, so, when ends the weary day,
I will not stay for friend or foe,
But to her fireside take my way,
No matter how the winds may blow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Summer Morning.
Here nothing is but the large, quiet sea,
Shrouded in summer haze that hides the
sky.
Out of the lilac smoke, all soundlessly,
A boat drifts slowly past,
With nets piled high.
And limp, down-hanging sails from
murky mast.
Unstirring on the tall, weed-patterned piles
The grey gulls stand, with rumpled feathers
furled.
Uncovered are the little tide-left isles,
Where rippling water wells
Round sandbanks pearled
With dim, drowned scatterings of broken
shells.
Deep down in depths of jade and chryso-
prase,
Dark, wavering shapes in worlds of
shadow 100m —
Torn sea-things dragged from some loud-
sounding place—
Brown kelp and tangled trails
From ocean’s tomb,
Brought in the wake of old, forgotten
gales.
My heart is still and empty like the sea,
Void of all passions, void of troubling
tears;
But far below that wide serenity,
Like storm-tossed ocean-wrack,
Unuttered fears
And ancient discontents lie stark and
black!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


THE ROMANCE OF THE BRIDGE.
| —’OUR years ago, when The Bulletin
r decided to offer £2OOO for the encour-
agement of the Australian novel, it was
told that it would be money wasted —that
this land was too new, too crude and mostly
too drab for romance to live in; that, apart
from bushranging and convictism, which had
been pretty well covered already, there was
nothing at all wonderful or picturesque to
write about. Evidence was, however, soon
forthcoming that romance does not live only
among ruins and tombs, but that in the
beginnings of things there is apt to be more
of the wonderful and the picturesque than
in their slow decay.
“No taxation without representation!
certain angry North American colonists
cried, and proceeded to throw chests of tea
into Boston Harbor; and there and then
began the Romance of the Bridge. The
War of Independence closed the planta-
tions of the New World against trans-
portation; and by what was regarded
as a dispensation of Providence Captain
Cook had just drawn attention to a Newer
World in the far South Seas. Sailing
along the eastern coast of Australia he
had turned into a bay on whose shores
the botanist of the expedition, Sir Joseph
Banks, found “meadows” and a wonderful
fertility. Then, on the slow passage north,
a seaman named Jackson, on the look-out,
had discerned a break in the rocks opening
into what Cook decided might be a boat
harbor; merely giving it a name, Port Jack-
son, he sailed on to explore Broken Bay.
There was need for new “plantations,” to
which convicts might be shipped; and what
more promising than Sir Joseph Banks s
meadow’s on the shores of Botany Bay? So
a tiny fleet was fitted out, Captain Phillip
in command, and Botany Bay was once more
entered. Alas! the “meadows” could not
be found —only marshes and hungry sand-
hills ; and, mindful of his small stores.
Phillip set out to explore Broken Bay. But
the “boat harbor” might as well be examined
first; and thus, so far as history knows,
white men sailed for the first time upon it
The report w r as so satisfactory that a few
days later, on January 25, 1788, the whole
convoy anchored in what Phillip called Syd-
ney Cove, Sydney being the Minister who
had suggested the settlement in the far south
land. Next day the expedition was landed
—within a few yards of where to-day the
great bridge comes to rest on the southern
shore.
The early years of the settlement on Syd-
ney Cove were a terrible struggle for bare
existence. Provisions were often cruelly
short; years later one wdio had come with
the First Fleet declared that until 1791
he had been certain of only one thing—that
they would all some day die of starvation.
The settlement had no vehicles, but plenty
of boats, and in the search for land from
W’hich they might draw sustenance they
naturally explored the Parramatta River,
on whose banks an effort was made to grow'
something. The northern shore of the harbor
held out no promise whatever; it w'as rocky
and barren. For over 80 years no attempt
was made to occupy it; as the settlement
found its feet it pushed out on to the plains
westward and crept over the undulating
country to the east of Parramatta.
Flagstaff Hill. Rose Hill. Baulkham Hills,
Castle Hill, Pennant Hills —there is
romance in the very names of those earliest
settlements. Eight months and more that
tiny First Fleet had occupied on its voyage
to the unknown South Land. Of its char-
acter hardly a thing was known; that it wms
an island was little more than guessed at
and was certainly unsuspected by the
majority of those who were now camped on
its strange shore ; again and again prisoners
broke away and made inland hoping, as they
declared, to reach China. Of the native in-
ENIGMATICAL.
“I’d know what to do if I saw a woman trying to steal my husband
“Yes, darling; I don’t think I would, either.”
habitants they knew as little or less; a few
“Indians,” as they called them, had been
seen and had given trouble at a place whicn,
from their bearing and behavior had been
called Manly. What terrors the strange
land might hold, what new surprise might
await this handful of settlers, nobody knew,
nobody could even guess. All they could do
was to keep a sharp look-out, searching tli<_
unaccustomed distances for new sights, and
tiaturally occupying points of vantage for
the purpose. Less than a hundred yc&js
afterwards Henry Parkes proposed to build
a bridge over the harbor as a memorial of tne
colony’s centenary; in less than a hundred
and fifty years the work was actually begun.
There was romance in more than the birtli
of the settlement; there was romance too
in the growth. . , . „
And the story is all the more astonishing
when we remember how slow was the pro-
gress made in the first half of the period.
Wat else could it be! More than eight
months we have seen it took Phillip to reach
Australia —first to Teneriffe, then zigzagging
to Rio in South America for supplies, zig-
zagging back to the Cape of Good Hope and
thence across the great waste of watei to the
Unknown Land. Little room in lus ridicu-
lously small ships for anything but the
barest necessities; no room at all tor any our.
the slenderest foundations for the flocks and
herds with which it was hoped to stock the
country. Nearly five years after the lirs..
Fleet had landed there were of horned cattle,
old and young, in the colony but 22, ol
horses 11, of sheep, which were then sell-
ing at 10 guineas a head, 105, and of hogs 4rf.
And with infinite labor they had been able
to scratch under cultivation of one sort and
another no more than 1700 acres.
There is romance in the unremitting push
of settlement to the foothills of the forbid-
ding range that shut out further progress
westward ; romance in the struggle of \\ ont-
wortli and Lawson and Blaxland to scale
the rampart; romance in the long, laborious
movement of population through the moun-
tain passes on to the western plains;
romance in the exploration of the untrodden
territory north and south by Oxley and
Hume and Ilovell and Cunningham and a
dozen more. A great chapter was written
on the day when, on an earlier expedition
northward, the Coal River was found, and
the foundations of Newcastle and the great
coal industry were laid ; romance too m the
sturdy and successful fight of a young Scots-
man named Brown against the Australian
Agricultural Co.’s claim to a monopoly of
coal-mining in the colony. And there is
romance of a sort too even in the hostile
attitude of the authorities towards prospect-
ing for gold. But the time came when the
lure was irresistible; and then another great
chapter was written in the stirring history.
Maybe in its immediate consequences it was
the greatest chapter of all; for out of the
search for gold came the search for other
metals. Iron we already knew we had, and
Australia’s first smelting furnace was opened
in the year following Hargrave’s discovery
of gold near Bathurst. But the production of
pig-iron was not the simple business it had
seemed ; and the enterprise at Mittagong had
little success.. The Lithgow works followed ;
and with them and the foundation of the iron
and steel industry in Australia the name of
William Sandford, still living, deserves to
be perpetually associated.
Just as the gold discoveries in California
had turned the thought of Hargraves and
a hundred others to the possibilities of gold-
fields in Australia, so the later finds in
Colorado and other western States turned
the minds of men in Australia to thoughts of
steady streams of silver flowing from fur-
naces in their own land. Sunny Corner,
though a field of no commercial consequence,
told them that their thoughts might not be
idle dreams. So another period very rich in
all the elements of romance opened. Paddy
Green, the storekeeper at Menindie, the vil-
lage on the Darling from which Burke and
Wills had made their fatal plunge into the
desert, had had brought to him by a team-
ster some lumps of stone glittering like
silver. It was, in fact, nothing better than
galena, rich in lead but poor in silver, but
it looked very good, and he had a waggon-
load drawn in for shipment to Europe. But,
alas again ! the barge on which it was taken
downstream sank, and it did not _seem worth
while to bother any. more about it. But the
story was remembered in the district; and
Charles Rasp, the German boundary-rider on
Mt. Gipps station, kept his eyes open. One
day he chipped stone from a great uneven
ridge near the Round Hill; and Broken
Hill was born.
For over 30 years Broken Hill poured out
its silver and its lead and later on its zinc
(and there is a separate romantic story in
its zinc), and then the mind of its general
manager, G. D. Delprat, turned to the future
when the mines’ own ores should be ex-
hausted. For convenience of handling the
smelting works had long since been moved
from the mine to the coast of Spencer s
Gulf, 200 miles away; and to supply the
ironstone required as flux a quarry had been
opened in the Iron Knob, across the narrow
gulf. There is a story of a zealous officer
who, to satisfy himself, produced pig-iron
in a lead furnace, and did no good to the
furnace in the process; but at any rate there
was no doubt about the quality of the ore;
and its quantity was never in doubt. Finance,
the rock upon which others had either foun-
dered or always threatened to founder, was
no great trouble to the Broken _ Hill Pro-
prietary. The co. had long had its eye on
Newcastle; and there, at Waratali, the co.
proceeded to establish the greatest individual
enterprise in Australia. At the date of the
co.’s last published accounts it had over
seven millions invested in these iron and
steel works.
Meantime, in 1919, Messrs. G. and C.
Hoskins, who had control of the LithgoAV
works for some
years, acquired them
absolutely, and pur-
sued a vigoro us
development
policy. Already,
however, Char 1 e s
Hoskins had decided
that the main works
ought to be on the
seaboard, and a site
was secured at Port
Kembla. Following
his death Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
was formed, merg-
ing the Hoskins en-
terprise an d the
structural engineer-
ing works of Dor-
man Long and Co.,
Ltd., and with Bald-
win’s and Howard
Smith interested.
In the construc-
tion of the Bridge
every bar of steel —
indeed, every rivet
—had to be sub-
jected to the most
rigorous tests. These
two works have
already made such
technical progress
that of the 54.501)
tons of steel and
rivets in the struc-
ture, 10,500 tons was
supplied by the
Broken Hill Prop,
and 3500 by Austra-
lian Iron and Steel,
Ltd. McPherson’s,
of Melbourne, made
the rivets.
But there is even
more fascination in
the development of
by-products and sub-
sidiaries. Out of
the cokeworks alone
has come a long
string of chemical
industries. To-day,
besides iron and
steel in many shapes, the R. 11. Prop,
and its associated cos. make wires, wire
ropes, nails, galvanised iron, netting,
naphthaline, creosote oil, benzol, toluol,
sulphate of ammonia and a dozen other pro-
ducts. Alongside, its Broken Hill neigh-
bor, the Sulphide Corporation, is adding-
millions to the wheat and butter production
of Australia by turning another waste pro-
duct into superphosphates. And step by step
you can trace it all back to the day when
German Charley, the lonely boundary-rider,
got off his horse in the great silent .saltbush
wastes of Mt. Gipps and, dreaming dreams,
broke off a stone from the weather-worn out-
crop of Broken Hill!
And what a tale could be told of William
Dawes, the young lieutenant of Marines
after whom was named the point on which
the bridge plants its southern foot! Heav-
ing the navy, ho was given various shore
jobs, one of them as administrator in Sierra
Leone, where he began to take a very lively
interest in Wilberforce’s anti-slavery move-
ment ; and thereafter until his death in 1836
he was an enthusiastic worker in the ranks
of the liberationists, carrying the battle
even into Antigua, where, broken in health
and pocket, he died. The other foot of the
Bridge stands on Milson’s Point, named after
James Milson, who had come to the colony
and was given a grant of land which had
belonged to Thomas Muir. And there is
a story in that, too. Muir was one of the
“Scottish martyrs,” transported in 1794, and
men wondered why he should bury himself
at a place he had called Hunter’s Hill —not
the Hunter’s Hill of to-day, but much nearer
Sydney Cove. They knew more afterwards
when Muir was mysteriously picked up and
spirited away by the Otter, an American
ship which had dropped in “to have some
small repairs done.” But Muir’s adven-
tures had only just started. He reached
Panama, crossed the isthmus and then was
put into prison by the Spanish, who did not
know quite what to make of him. So, as
two Spanish warships were just for
Cadiz, he was put aboard ; that was in 1797.
Britain and Spain were at war at the time;
and poor Muir, a British subject who dared
not claim British protection, had the shock-
ing luck to be aboard an enemy frigate when
she was engaged and defeated by a British
ship of war. It should have meant death,
of course; but French friends intervened,
and Muir was allowed to go to France, where
he was banqueted and f£ted and received
much attention. But his health was broken,
and he died within the year (1798).
Beyond Milson’s Point is Blue’s Point,
with Lavender Bay lying between, and on
this waterfront Dorman Long built thejr
works for the fabrication of the steel. There is
a story in Billy Blue, too —Billy, a West
Indian, who had landed nobody knows just
how or why from an American ship, pro-
bably a whaler, and had made himself very
useful in the community, now under Mac-
quarie’s respectable rule. Maybe Mac-
quarie remembered how population had been
lured across Princes-street in Edinburgh;
anyway, he gave Billy, a first-rate boatman,
a grant of the point that now carries his
name. The expected happened: Billy soon
had several boats available to ferry passen-
gers across the harbor —so many, in fact,
that his patron grew suspicious. They never
caught Billy Blue smuggling; but everybody,
from Macquarie down, suspected that 'that
was the real business of more than half “the
commodore’s” boats. Lavender Bay, off
Blue’s Point, used to be Quiberee Bay; but
the old name was gradually dropped after
George Lavender, who kept the convict hulk
in the bay, married one of Billy Blue’s girls.
What tales that old hulk of Lavender’s might
have told too —an old derelict used in its last
days to hold convicts that had been marked
down for descent into the hell of Norfolk
Island !
Billy Blue, then, was the first “bridge
between the north side and the settlement on
Sydney Cove. His landing-place on the cove
side was somewhere between Dawes and
Miller’s points, and the track leading down
to it was for many years thereafter Ferry-
lane ; but all traces of the service have long
WASN’T EVEN SPARED THAT.
“I knew, Mum, that my husband was telling me lies.”
“I suppose he put himself away in the end?”
"No, Mum. I had to call in an undertaker.”
since disappeared. On the other side tracks
took their winding courses by rocks and
scrub; and many of the shop-lined streets
of to-day follow where those pioneers of the
’twenties and ’thirties led. .Tames Milson
soon dominated the point on which he had
settled ; he gave the .Christian names of Ins
family to some of these tracks. You can
still read them in the principal streets of
North Sydney. Even in the early ’forties
the North Shore was so rough and so little
settled That it was the favorite refuge of
“thieves and runaways.” Nevertheless the
ever-widening tracks called for better means
of transport from the main settlement; and
in 1841 the project t 0 link up the two sides
of the harbor by a steam ferry or “floating
bridge” came to a head. The vessel, built
on Balmain, was launched in March, though
the engines did not arrive till several months
later.
With rlie opening of the Bridge the cur-
tain will ring down on that ferry service
which has linked the city with Milson’s
Point and has been so strong a factor in
the settlement of the picturesque northern
shores of the harbor. There is something
of romance even in the growth of that ser-
vice. We have seen how Billy Blue was
encouraged by Governor Macquarie to row
passengers across ; and out of that developed
a traffic running to 40 million passengers
a year. It was not until 20 years or more
after “Commodore” Billy’s venture that a
steam-driven vessel entered the service. The
Fairy Queen she was named, and she towed
on either side a punt for vehicles. The
course was from Windmill-street to. Blue’s
Point. Two years later Milson’s Point was
made her northern port; but it was not till
the ’sixties that Milson’s definitely took the
first place. For the change the North Shore
Ferry Co.—the forerunner of Sydney
Ferries, Ltd., of later days—was respon-
sible ; and it also made Circular Quay its
headquarters on the Sydney side. The co.
began in 1861 with the Kirribilli, a vessel
capable of carrying no less than 60 pas-
sengers ; soon the traffic warranted the addi-
tion of the Alexander, a leviathan licensed
for 75. Sixty years later the co. was
launching the Kuttabul and Koompartoo,
each with accommodation for over 2000 pas-
sengers. And alongside them ran a fleet
of vehicle ferries each capable of carrying
50 motor-cars and of transporting upwards
of 1000 vehicles per hour at a speed of 13
knots. There have been times when, looking
at the ferry co.’s profits, Sydney has been
angry, and in its anger has called for n
bridge. It may be that the bridge will
give a quicker crossing; but so well has
the ferry service been organised that —to
the pained astonishment of many of us—the
bridge toll will be at least half as much
again as the fare hy water. Only the foot
passenger will benefit: he alone, according
to present schedules, will escape payment.


THE MAN TALKED THE BRIDGE
THE man who first suggested an arch over
the harbor was no engineer, but a poet
who never saw Sydney except with the
eye of fancy. Dr. Erasmus Darwin, grand-
father of the great scientist, writing in 1788,
only a few months after Governor Phillip had
landed his first little band of convicts at
Port Jackson, used these remarkable words:
Where Sydney Cove her lucid bosom swells,
Courts her young navies and the storm repels,
High on a rock amid the troubled air
Hope stood sublime and wav’d her golden hair....
“Hear me,” she cried, “ye rising realms! Record
Time’s opening scenes and Truth’s unerring word.
There, ray’d from cities o’er the cultured land,
Shall bright canals and solid roads expand ;
There the proud arch, Colossus-like, bestride
Yon glittering stream and bound the chafing tide;
Embellished villas crown the landscape scene,
Farms wave with gold and orchards blush between.”
It might be going rather too far to suggest
that, with his poet’s eye, Dr. Erasmus Darwin
saw the “proud arch, Colossus-like,” bestride
the “glittering stream” that flows between
Dawes Point and Milson’s; but that at so
very early a stage he should have thought of
a “proud arch” at all is the more remark-
able in view of the very inauspicious begin-
nings of the new settlement which Gov-
ernor Phillip had just set up with so much
sweat and travail and misgiving.
In the busy, hun-
gry settlement it-
self there was
neither time nor in-
clination to talk of
a bridge across the
harbor. The poor
little struggling
community, very
badly equipped
with every kind of
tradesman’s tool,
and short also of
tradesmen, had the
greatest difficulty
in building and
maintaining the
culverts (they were
little more) which
it. threw over the
Tank Stream —the
largely-tidal creek
which ran away as
a western horn of
what is now com-
monly called Cir-
cular Quay, but
was then Sydney
Cove, and on the
banks of which
Sydney was actu-
ally built. There
were three of these
bridges, apparently,
between where is
now the Post
Office and the har-
bor ; the most im-
portant of them
was that which
spanned the stream
at what became and
still is known as
Bridge-street. Very
important was the
building first of
logs and then of
stones over “the
stream” at this
point. The mili-
tary and naval
headquarters were
ranged on the
western side of
what is now Cir-
cular Quay, run-
ning right out to
the point from
which the “proud
arch” steps across
to the North
Shore; they ex-
tended southwards
along the western
side of George-
street, taking in
Wynyard - square,
where the southern
approach to the
Great Bridge comes
now to earth.
Eastward the civil authorities settled them-
selves ; and you will find them there
to this day, with the Governor’s resi-
dence beside them. Thus the first bridge
of consequence in Australia- —indeed the
first bridge or culvert of any .sort what-
ever —was within a few yards of the
vast work which has now been completed,
and was a sort of connecting link between
the strictly military authority on the one
hand and the administrative authority on
the other. It might do us good in these days
sometimes to reflect upon the difficulties
these our ancestors had to surmount. Refer-
ence has already been made to the great
scarcity of tradesmen’s tools in that First
Fleet, and for a long while afterwards. There
was great scarcity of lime, too. No chalk or
limestone was to be found in the neighbor-
hood of Sydney Cove; so the first stone build-
ings—probably also the first bridges—were
“dry.” In view of this circumstance it is not
surprising that the bridge at Bridge-street is
frequently shown in the earliest plans of
Sydney as “fallen down” or “being repaired.”
Then Francis Howard Greenway arrived
in Sydney. He was a queer person alto-
gether—a crank whose
crankiness happened to
appeal to that mighty
builder of monuments,
Governor Macquarie. No
doubt Greenway had
had professional train-
ing in England ; but he
was a visionary and not
always a trustworthy
one, and he was serv-
ing a sentence of 14
yea r s’ transportation
when he came to Mac-
quarie’s notice. Within
a couple of years he
was appointed Govern-
ment Architect. Together these two dreamed
wonderful dreams- —-dreams of* great markets
and city halls; of fortifications and light-
houses and bridges and courthouses and
churches. Plans of many of these were pre-
pared ; some were actually begun. But,
though he wrote in 1828 that lie had pro-
posed “the North Shore Bridge,” it is not
certain that he submitted anything in the
way of plans. His scheme —this was in
5815 —was to build a fort on Observatory
Hill, a redoubt on Dawes Point (there was
a “battery” already there) and a bridge
thence to the northern shore. Whatever lus
other claim to remembrance, Greenway was
thus certainly the first Government profes-
sional officer to suggest the North Shore
bridge. It may be added that, on Mac-
quarie reporting Greenway’s appointment as
architect, he asked leave to increase the
man’s pay “from 3s. to ss. a day, Mr. Green-
way being now Free and having a large
family to support in the Line of Respecta-
bility.”
After Greenway there was for many years
no official with an imagination strong enough
to bridge the gulf between Dawes Point and
the North Shore. Whatever work was done
it had then to be done in stone. Even London
Bridge, completed in 1831, was of masonry.
HE SHOWS HIS SORE TOE.
Sir Henry Parkes, who was
received with loud and pro-
longed applause, said: “I
appear before you this evening
with feelings which I cannot .
express, and which it would hi
difficult for you to under-
stand. ... Some 11 months ago
a misfortune befell me....
I am here to-night, I am vei.v.
thankful to say, in
sound health —
(cheer s) —and
though I still suffer
severely from that
accident I have
every reason to be-
lieve that....
before I conclude.... 1
will prove to you that niv
tom ue is still in good
working order.” •
A’ LARGE ORDER.
But wait until you see that statute
book at the close of the next session !
•THAT BRIDGE.”
That bridge.... The time is approaching when it must be erected.
In 1891 The Bulletin printed its first cartoon on the subject of the Bridge; and it is reproduced above. Hop
was the artist. Henry Parkes, who a few months previously had fallen and broken a bone in his leg, reappeared on
the platform to fight an election for St. Leonards, on the North Shore; and he made the Bridge an election cry—the
vast and growing importance of the district, the old warrior said, “rendered the building imperative. Hop therefore
pictured the Bridge floating on empty jam-tins, its obvious purpose being only to take Sir Henry to the North Sydney
electorate.
Then, in 1857, Peter Henderson, who had
served his time with George Stephenson,
planned a bridge to cross just about where
the present bridge crosses; but there was no
driving force behind the proposal for con-
struction. However, iron and steel were now
coming into use; and gradually the girder
bridge was pushing out the very ancient
suspension type. The cantilever system had
also been discussed for a few years, and
was rather surprisingly adopted when the
Forth Bridge was undertaken in the earliest
’eighties.
This was a period of great bridge-building
activity. Enormous improvements, had just
been made in the manufacture of steel. In
America enterprises of great audacity were
discussed and in some cases undertaken. The
Niagara Bridge, with a span of 495 ft.
between the towers, and to carry two lines of
railway, was finished in 1883. The Pough-
keepsie Bridge over the Hudson was even
more ambitious. The cantilever spans here
were 547 ft. Girder bridges were built to
carry hitherto undreamt-of loads. The Ohio
Bridge (Cincinnati and Covington railway),
constructed in 1888, had a centre span of
550 ft. and side spans of 490 ft, It was in-
evitable that the busy canvass of 'the sub-
ject. among engineers the world over should
have repercussions in Australia. In 187 S
W. C. Bennett, Commissioner for Roads
and Bridges, proposed a floating bridge;
the following year T. S. Parrott prepared
plans for a truss bridge, including a 500 ft.
span ; and actually in the next year negotia-
tions were opened with the Government by
a company which offered to build a bridge
across the harbor if the Government would
guarantee 34 p.c. per annum for 30 years;
after that the company was prepared to take
the risk of making the enterprise pay. Henry
Parkes was Premier at the time; the co.
could not persuade him that private enter-
prise in bridges was a goockthing, and the
proposal was abandoned. The total cost was
to have been £850,000.
But the population of the North Shore was
growing very steadily; and it began to have
a very considerable political pull. From the
moment that this was recognised, the North
Shore bridge project was never allowed to
slumber more than a few months ; and the
iffans for it or for a subway—for a while
a subway was a popular alternative —were
legion. Among others the very eminent Sir
John Fowler was induced to prepare plans
for a suspension bridge. This type of bridge
had been greatly improved by the incorpora-
tion of stiffening girders; the Brooklyn
Bridge, begun in 1872, had a centre span of
15954 ft. and side spans of 930 ft. This
centre span would almost suffice for a bridge
over Sydney Harbor; the actual span of
the arch is 1650 ft. between bearings.
So far as connecting the North Shore was
concerned, the next few years were largely
spent in a battle between the advocates of
bridge and tunnel: and, after the general
election of 1889, a Royal Commission was
appointed to consider how the main railway
system could best be carried across city and
harbor. The Commission could not be persuaded
that any submitted scheme was practicable.
Norman Selfe’s name is the next to figure
largely- in the discussion. Selfe had learned
the business with P. N. Russell and Co. and
was afterwards with Mort and Co. (of “the
dock”), where he proved himself an engineer
of extraordinary versatility. He attacked
the problem more seriously than any of his
predecessors had done ; he toured the world,
visiting all the great bridges and the engi-
neering works which had produced them.
Mainly as the result of his engineering work,
coupled with the angling of political leaders
for the North Shore vote, an advisory board
was appointed in 1901 by E. W. O’Sullivan,
then Minister for Works, to decide gener-
ally on what should be done and call for
detailed designs and tenders. Norman Selfe
interested himself in the matter, and designed
a bridge with a span of 1200 ft., for which
the contract of J. Stewart and Co. at
£1,940,050 was recommended for acceptance.
But the See Government went out of office
in June, 1904, and Walter Bennett, who
succeeded O’Sullivan at the Works Office,
was a man from the country and without
any enthusiasm for an expensive city job.
But the North Shore vote was still worth
angling for; moreover, this was a time when
there was more than usual discussion of the
wisdom of the policy of leaving public utili-
ties in the hands of private companies. Syd-
ney Ferries, Ltd., had begun to enjoy a period
of great prosperity; and the subject of bridge
or subway was raised again. In their
innocence the people believed that all the
money which the Sydney Ferries Co. _was
collecting could be saved if only a bridge
was thrown across the stream !
It was during this revival that Dr. Brad-
field first took a prominent part in the
engineering discussions. A Royal Commission
(1908) had reported in favor of three sub-
ways, one each for railways, tramways and
vehicles ; but the report met with great oppo-
sition, and nothing had been done when
Arthur Griffith took over the Works Depart-
ment in the first Labor Government in N._ S.
Wales. Griffith, a man with much driving
force, sent a scheme to the Public Works
committee; on the evidence available he
thought the best plan would be to have a
bridge for tramways, vehicles and foot pas-
sengers and a subway for railways. Brad-
field took the lead in the discussion on the
professional side, and persuaded the com-
mittee (of which the late John Storey was
ai the time chairman) that the subway idea
was wrong; a cantilever bridge, such as
that over the Firth of Forth, would, he
promised, answer all requirements.
Then came the war; and after the war a
period when borrowing was fatally easy. In
the boom conditions which then prevailed it
was much simpler to persuade Parliament to
authorise the vast expenditure than it had
been before; J. 11. Cann, as Minister for
Works, had twice put authorising bills
through the Assembly, to see them thrown
out by the Council. In the work of pre-
paring these bills Dr. Bradfield had taken
a foremost part. His original scheme was,
as already said, for a cantilever bridge.
After a world tour
in 1922 he was satis-
fied that a bridge of
the arch type was
feasible; and the
necessary Act hay-
ing been passed—it
was carried through
by R. T. Ball—the
tenders invited allow-
ed for alternative de-
signs, either arch or
cantilever. Whi 1 e
the matter was be-
f ore Parliament
Bradfield almost
lived on the pre-
mises. The Minister
made a speech or
two on the floor of
the House; Brad-
field made a hundred
in the lobbies and
the party rooms.
Six firms submit-
ted 20 tenders; and
on May 24, 1924, the
tender of Dorman,
Long and Co., Dtd.,
for an arch-type
bridge, to cost
J 4.217.721 11s. 10d.,
was accepted—this
exclusive of ap-
proaches ; and there
was a provision also
that the Government
must pay any extra
cost due to higher
wages awards.
And of course
there have been
many men outside
Parliament and with
no thought of get-
ting there who have
been strenuous talk-
ers of the Bridge.
For 60 years past
some with an eye
for beauty have been
charmed with the
sites which the
North Shore offered.
Lord Beauchamp,
Governor of N._ S.
Wales in the ’nine-
ties when Federa-
tion was brought to
a head, was an en-
thusiastic advocate
of the North Shore
—“s omewh e r o'
on Middle Harbor”
—as the site of a
new Commonwealth
capital, and even
earlier Lord Rose-
bery had been charm-
ed by the same sur-
roundings. In the
tracks of these altru-
ists inevitably came the land speculator:
and far afield —along road and coast to
within sight almost of Newcastle —land was
bought for a trifle in the hope that some day
the iron string would be stretched across the'
water; and out of that hope much eloquence
has bubbled.
Man “never is but always to be blest”;
and though the talkers have given us our
bridge there are still many who are un-
happy—some no doubt because they find
themselves cheated by unkind circumstance
out of the financial gain they expected to
derive from it as travellers; others because,
from the aesthetic viewpoint, even this
“proud arch” is but a poor substitute for
the pools of dancing gold flung out on a
still night from the hurrying ferries.
In time maybe the eye will get used to
the great lacework of steel which dominates
the landscape; for the present it is too
overwhelming, turning every other feature
into a poor pigmy, and drawing the atten-
tion from those natural beauties which hap-
pily are not so assertive.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-G.P.S. (Riverview) man, 26, exp. sheep and
book-keeping - , wants position on station anywhere.
—8873.
Man (37), Sydney, on dole, would like another
same age to share shack; must be Australian, well-
read, companionable and fond of ashing.—B744.
To get in touch with young man owning small
seaworthy boat on the east coast, with a view to
sharing expenses in a trip to the Islands or else-
where. —8782.
Lady (Vic.) wants position as governess, com-
panion or housekeeper, anywhere in the country.
Refs.—BBlG.
Man, N.S.W., commercial, stores, transport and
office exp., wants employment.—BSo9.
To buy one or two pea-hens.—B743.
Will exchange current “Saturday Evening Post”
for “Bladkwiood’sl Magazine,” “New Statesman/’
“Atlantic Monthly,” “Inland Printer,” “National
Review” or “American.”—B7B7.
To exchange “A Century of Journalism” for some
of the following: Volney’s “Ruins of Empires,”
Galsworthy’s “Forsyte Saga,” Montesquieu’s “Spirit
of Laws,” White’s “History of Warfare of Science
with Theology,” Buckle’s “History of Civilisation in
England,” Reade’s “Martyrdom of Man” and Geary
or Lewes’s “History of Philosophy.”—B7B6.
To hear from persons advertising recently in Sydney
paper for John Small. —8826.
Words of song, “When the Sheep Are in the Fold,
Jeannie.” —8769.
Words of poem by Anna Letitia Barbauld com-
mencing : “Life, I know not what thou art, But
know that thou and I must part.”—BB44.
Whereabouts Arthur John Thornett. Urgent. Rela-
tion, Toowoomba (Q.), inquiring.—B739.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Tickner. Cousin in Vic.
Agric. Dept, inquiring.—BBs2.
Information Sought.
(1) Has the Governor power to reject any
person as a nominee for the N. 8. Wales
Leg. Council who he thinks is unworthy"?
(2) How many Leg. Councillors are allowed
to hold offices of emolument under the
Crown? (3) In what manner do seats of
members become vacant? (4) llow many
members constitute a quorum? —B767-
(1) The Governor acts on the advice of
the Ministry, and in such matters no special
instructions have been issued to him re-
specting the acceptance or rejection of such
advice. (2) Not more than one-fifth. (3)
The seats of members become vacant by
death, resignation, absence, accepting foreign
allegiance, bankruptcy, accepting public con-
tracts or by criminal conviction. (4) One-
fourth, exclusive of the President.
I intend spending three weeks on Lord
11 owe Island. (1) What will it cost? (2)
Boat sailings? (3) What is the climate on
the island? (4) What amusements? —8618.
(1) Board, £2 10s. to £3 3s. per week;
steamer fare, return from Sydney, £lO 9s.
(2) Morinda leaves Sydney March 31 and
May 5. Passengers must spend about 22 days
on the island before they can return to Syd-
ney. (3) Very pleasant throughout the
year. (4) Tennis, golf, bowls, fishing, swim-
ming, etc.
On what conditions may a burial take place
on private property in N.B.W. ? —8583..
A permit must be signed by a District
Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages,
a coroner or other officer or person authorised
to issue such permit, and if the grave is
within 100 yards of any building or public
road the body must be enclosed in a her-
metically-sealed casket of lead.
(1) What price was paid for the Guten-
berg Bible sold by Sotheby’s, London, last
year? (2) How many Gutenberg Bibles
are in existence? (3) Are copies printed
on vellum more valuable than those printed
on paper? (4) Why is it sometimes called
the Mazarin Bible and the 42-line Bible?
8822.
(1) Not disclosed, but understood to be
in excess of £21,200 paid for a complete
copy sold in New York five years ago. (2)
Can’t say definitely. Twenty years ago it
was estimated that only 41 copies were m
existence, of which 31 were in public or
semi-public libraries. (3) Yes, for they are
very rare, but the last to appear at auction,
in 1911, realised only £lO,OOO. (4) Because
the first was discovered in Cardinal
Mazarin’s library. It is also known as the
“42-line Bible” owing to it being printed m
double columns of 42 lines each.
How many islands are there in Port Jack-
son and for ichat purposes are they used?
—8766.
Nine. Four are reserved as public
pleasure resorts; Garden Island is used as
a depot by the Australian Navy; on Goat
Island a repair dep6t has been established
by the Harbor Trust, and fire-floats are
stationed there. Large graving docks are
situated on Cockatoo Island. Spectacle
Island is used for the storage of explosives.
Fort Denison, used formerly for defence
purposes, is now a lighthouse and fog-signal
station.
(1) In what way does the Lord Chamber-
lain control the staging of plays in Eng-
land? (2) Are plays produced in Aus-
tralia. subject to any official scrutiny before
being staged? —B76B.
Every new play must be submitted to the
Lord Chamberlain’s Examiner of Plays. If
the Lord Chamberlain is “of opinion that
it is fitting for. the preservation of good
manners, or of public decorum, or of the
public peace” so to do, he refuses his license,
or, more often, suspends its issue until the
objectionable features are eliminated. (2)
No.
(1) Who was the first maker of English
Toby jugs? (2) How can they be identi-
fied? —8491. . „ „ ,
(1) Ralph Wood, at Burslem, m Stafford-
shire, about 1730. (2 The jugs are in
the form of an old gentleman seated on a
chair holding a small ale jug on his left
knee, with the right hand placed round the
vessel. Dress: knee-breeches, long-tailed
coat, brogues and a three-cornered hat, the
crown of which is usually removable ana
forms the lid of the jug. Colors: yellows,
greens and greenish browns. Hat and shoes
black with a brownish tinge.
(1) When was Andrew Fisher Prime Min-
ister? (2) What were the more important
acts of legislation for which he was respon-
sible?—:B499. _
(1) Nov. 13 to June 2, 1909; April 29 to
June 24, 1913; Sept. 17, 1914, to Oct 27,
1915. (2) The establishment of the Com-
monwealth Bank and the issue of notes by
the Federal Treasury, superseding all pri-
vate bank issues; the imposition of a I ederal
land tax and the construction of the Trans-
continental railway. He was also largely
responsible for the creation of the Austra-
lian Squadron (which he initiated during lus
1908-09 term with the building of destroy-
ers), and the development of the compulsory
military-training system, but these matters
were on the whole outside party politics.
How are the fleshy parts of Japanese
cucumbers leached out to make loofahs?
5169.
Let the loofahs get as ripe as possible on
the vine, then boil them gently in a kero-
sene-tin lengthwise till the flesh falls away.
Rinse well under a running tap and let soak
in a weak solution of washing soda in
water till they are clean. Dry in an airy
place, and beat together to shake out par-
ticles. They can be left to rot clean in
water without boiling, but must be watched
and the water frequently changed to avoid
odors.
(1) What is the tonnage of the Ansae
and Tattoo? (2) Are the destroyers Tattoo
and Swordsman of the same class? (3) To
which navy do the submarines Otway and
Oxley belong, and is this ownership perma-
nent? (4) The top speeds per hour of Ansae,
Swordsman and Tattoo? —B264.
(1) Standard tonnage: Anzac, 1660;
Tattoo, 1075. (2) Yes. (3) They perma-
nently belong to the Royal Navy. (4) Anzac,
34 knots; Swordsman and Tattoo, 36 knots
per hour.
I am an officer in the Aust. military
forces. I understand that an annual prize
is awarded in England for the best essay on
the subject of defence. Can you give me
particulars and tell me whether I would be
eligible to compete?. —B796.
The Bertrand Stewart prize of £lOO is
given annually for the best essay on some
military problem the study or discussion of
which would tend to increase the efficiency
of the British Army. You would be eligible
to compete. Particulars from editors of
“Army Quarterly,” 94 Jermyn-street, Lon-
don, S.W.I.
I have written a piece of music and a firm
of music publishers has offered, unsolicited
by me t publish it at my expense. Do you
advise publishing by that method? —8797.
No.
(1) W T hat or whom does the McCaughey
Trust Fund provide for? (2) Address of
administrators ? —B3OO.
(1) Sydney and Brisbane Universities,
the Presbyterian Churches of N. S. Wales,
Q’land and Ireland, and the dependants of
soldiers who lost their lives in the Great
War, or who were permanently and
totally incapacitated. (2) Universities and
Churches, 4 O’Connell-street, Sydney;
Soldiers’ Dependants, Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne.
(1) Were aerodarts used in the G-reat
War and by whom? What was their con-
struction? (2) When was the Tissot Res-
piration introduced, and how 1 did it differ
from other gas-masks used in the war? —
8794.
(1) A steel dart or arrow was used by
both French and German aviators. Accord-
ing to a French report 2000 were dropped
on waggons and infantry at Nampoel on
Christmas Day, 1914. Their use' was soon
discontinued. They were made of highly-
tempered steel, pointed at one end and fluted
at the other. With a striking velocity of
400 ft. per second such a weapon could
traverse a man’s body from head to foot.
(2) It had no mouthpiece or noseclip, the
inhaled air passing by the sides of the eye-
pieces and across them to the nose and
mouth. The French issued a few late in
the war. The idea has now been adopted
in practically all gas-masks.
Can a Sydney municipal council enforce
payment of half-cost of kerbing and gutter-
ing where they have left a footpath between
the fence and gutter of 10 ft. width or more?
—SBOS.
The width of the footway does not affect
liability.
I own a small shop in a Sydney suburb
on the fringe of the business centre. The
council has prescribed an area, which in-
cludes my property, as a lighting district,
and I expect tv be called to pay a special
lighting rate. I will derive no benefit; can
I appeal? —BBo4.
You have a right to appeal to the nearest
court of petty sessions.
What educational qualifications must a
girl desiring a position in the N.S.W. Public
Library possess? Must she pass an exam-
ination after appointment? —BBol.
Leaving-certificate pass is required. Can-
didates are appointed temporarily to the
position, and after about six months’ service,
during which they are receiving tuition, aie
required to pass a qualifying examination
as a condition of permament appointment.
What does the Silvertoh Tramway Co.,
Broken Hill, pay to the Crown for lease of
land through which its lines pass? —
Lands traversed by the tramway are not
held under lease. That co., however, is
authorised to take and use so much or the
lands described in the schedule to the Sii-
verton Tramway Act ISB6 as may be re-
quired for the purposes of the tramway.
What are the physical, educational and
age requirements of an applicant for entry
in the N.S.W. Police Force, mounted and
foot?— BSo6.
For the mounted branch candidates must
bo not less than sft. 9in. in height in bare
feet, with a weight of approximately 11
stone and a chest expansion of 39in. lor
the foot branch applicants must not be less
than sft. Dili, in bare feet, weight not less
than list. 71b., with a chest expansion
of 39^in. The standards for weight and
chest measurement as compared with height
are as follows: —Height sft. 9in.: weight
list., chest expanded 39in.; sft. 91-in. and
sft. lOin.: list. 101 b. and 39-Jin.; sft. llin.:
12st. and 40in.; and 6ft.: 12st. 61b. and
40Jin. Applicants must be over 20 and
under 27, and for the mounted branch must
be single. Candidates are required to pass
a test in writing from dictation and in ele-
mentary arithmetic, to produce birth certi-
ficate, and satisfactory references to char-
acter, and to pass a medical test.
What is rhyming slang? How did it
originate? Can you give an example? —
8795.
It is a system in which a word is re-
placed by another word rhyming with it, or
part of a phrase that rhymes with it. It
was introduced in London about 1843 by
cheapjacks and street-singers. It was pro-
bably also a device of criminals, for talk-
ing about their misdoings without incrimin-
ating themselves. London costermongers use
it largely, it enters into naval slang, and
it was very popular among soldiers during
the war. The following stanzas will suffice
as an illustration: —
I was sittin’ alone by the fireside one night
A-warmin’ me plates of meat [feet] ;
When wot should I ’ear but a knock on the door
Which caused me old raspberry [raspberry-tart—
heart] to beat.
So I puts down me glass and me old cherry ripe
[pipe]
Which I ’olds in me German band [hand],
And I goes to the top of the apples and pears
[stairs]
Wiv’ me dooks all ready to land.
(1) What does “viscosity” as applied to
lubricating oil mean? (2) How is it dei<er-
mined? (3) What would be the character
of an oil with a viscosity of 250? (4) In
what way does viscosity influence the useful-
ness of an oil? —8775.
(1) It is the resistance offered by particles
of oil sliding past each other, and denotes
body or relative fluidity of the oil. (2) A
certain quantity of the oil to be tested is
placed in a pair, which is surrounded by a
bath and heated to a prescribed temperature.
When this degree is reached a plug in the
bottom of the pan is withdrawn and the oil
allowed to drip through a standard opening
into a receiving vessel, and the number of
seconds required for the outflow is taken
as the index of viscosity. (3) A consider-
able variation exists in the results obtained
by different instruments. Oil tested in the
Saybolt viscometer that shows a viscosity
of 250 would show approximately 210 on the
Redwood instrument, and approximately 377
on the Engler. Question cannot be answered
unless the testing instrument is known. (4)
The purpose of lubrication is to maintain a
film of oil between all working surfaces
under all conditions of load, temperature
and speed. An oil of light viscosity will not
stand a heavy load and will allow metal con-
tact. Conversely, an oil too heavy for the
load will create unnecessary friction, and
if clearances are very small will not reach
the desired portion.
Is a Leap Year every four years or is
there a longer period between at lengthy
intervals? How do astronomers account for
the extra day? —B724.
The earth’s journey round the sun is
accomplished in 365 days 5 hr. 48min. 45Jsec.
The calendar is kept in line with the seasons
by putting an extra day in the year in every
year divisible by four —Leap Year. But
this overdoes the correction, the fraction of
a day over 365 being .24103 and not .25. So
in the century years—l Boo, 1900, etc.—the
extra Leap Year day is left out. But adding
only 24 days each century leaves the reckon-
ing .00103 of a day short, so for good measure
the Leap Year day is inserted in every cen-
tury year divisible by 400 —such as 2000,
2400, etc. This overdoes it, but it takes
nearly 4000 years for the error to amount
to one day.
Four years ago I asked the Service Depart-
ment whether an Australian soldier in receipt
of a small war pension could get paid a lump
sum in full settlement. You replied that I
could. What is the position to-day? —BBo2.
The Repatriation Commission states that
the practice of paying a lump sum in lieu
of a regular pension was discontinued two
years ago for reasons of economy. No pen-
sions are being commuted at present.
What qualifications must an applicant
for a lift-attendant’'s certificate in Sydney
possess ? —BBOB.
He must pass an oral examination and be
in possession of a satisfactory reference as
to character from his employer or other
responsible person as to carefulness, trust-
worthiness, sobriety and good conduct for the
preceding six months. The reference must
indicate that the applicant has had at least
14 days’ continuous experience in the prac-
tical working of lifts. Further information
from the Chief Inspector Scaffolding and
Lifts, Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney.
I am thinking of spending a short holiday
at Colombo and, Calcutta. When is the best
time of the year to visit those places so far
as climate is concerned? Any special cloth-
ing needed? —8807.
September to March. ' It is advisable to
take light apparel.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Aboriginal word “wallanji’’?
—8754.
Brief Answers.
G.P.: South Africa offers no prospect for
unskilled or even semi-skilled immigrants. Native
labor is cheaper J.T.: Chappell and Co., 50
New Bond-street, W.l ; Schott and Co., 48 Great
Marlborough-street, W.l; and Francis, Day and
Hunter, 138 Charing Cross-road, W.C.2 —all London.
. ...H.W.: Don’t think so. Neither implements, nor
rock carvings, nor any other traces of an aboriginal
population have been discovered... .E.M.: Henry
Kendall died of tubercular disease at Kedfern,
Sydney, on August 1, 1882. He was buried in
Waverley cemetery... .P.R.: Before Leichhardt died
the King of Prussia had pardoned him for desertion,
and given him permission to return to Prussia, but
it is uncertain whether the pardon ever reached its
destination.... W.H.!: When Sydney time is 12
o’clock noon the time in Maoriland is 1.30 p.m.
. ...M.8.: Catalogue price is 9d. unused, but in
Australia it would be worth only sd. or 6d. It
was issued with the 11 by 12 perforation in 1884,
this being the mast common.... F.T.: From Angus
and Robertson W.C.H.: No L.P.: “O’Toole
and McSharry,” by T. E. Spencer, will be found in
“The Bulletin Reciter,” N.S.W. Bookstall Co
M. J.H.: Write Australian Cement Manufacturers’
Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney... .E.F.J.: The
present establishment of the Australian Permanent
Air Force is 104 officers and 788 airmen, and of the
Citizen Air Force, 60 officers and 290 airmen....
W.N.: Robert Crawford published two books of
verses, “Lyric Moods” and “The Leafy Bliss.” Both
are now out of print... .H.P.R.: The group of
English banks known as the “Big Five” are Bar-
clays, Lloyds, Midland, National Provincial and
Westminster H.C.: Prince John, King George’s
sixth and youngest child, was born July 12, 1905
and died Jan. 18, 1918 W. 8.: (1) A resident of
Australia intending to reside in New Zealand must
obtain a permit from the N.Z. Government. Forms
are obtainable at the N.Z. Government Office, Martin-
place, Sydney. A clearance from the Taxation Dept,
must also be obtained. No specific amount of money
is necessary. (2) The fare, Sydney to Auckland,
steerage, is £6 10s. or £7, according to steamer.
... .M.C.: (1) Yes. (2) The department has no
claim.. . .A. 8.: (1) The diamond would be the
more valuable. (2) Write C. Weaver, Hon. Sec.,
Aus. Mumismatic Society, 11 Carlisle-street, Leich-
hardt (N.5.W.)... .N.W.: Write Commissioner of
Police, Police Dept., Sydney R. J.W.: Unemploy-
ment Relief Tax to the extent of 2s. per week should
be deducted from each T.A.: The first Australian
war gratuities were paid about the beginning of
June, 1920. The total amount paid to June 30, 1930,
was £27,488,234 H.C.M.K.: (1) Probably vari-
cose veins. Can’t say definitely without personal
inspection. (2) Injection treatment is very valuable.
(3) You should consult a doctor. .. .T.E.W.: All
cases of worms should be treated under proper medical
supervision W.C.S.: Treatment can only be under-
taken by a doctor K.H.: Write Secretary, Air
Board, Defence Dept., Melbourne L.C.: Irish Free
State (1926)—Roman Catholics, 2,751,269; Church
of England, 164,215 ; Presbyterians, 32,429. Northern
Ireland (1926)—Roman Catholics, 420,428; Church
of England, 338,724; Presbyterians, 393,374....
F.M.: Full details obtainable from the Secretary,
Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission,
Sydney R.F.8.: There is no hope in Australia.
If you care for' New Guinea write New Guinea
Goldfields, Asbestos House, York-street, Sydney, and
Placer Development, Wingello House, Pitt-street,
Sydney R.W.S.: The full scale is given on page
568, “Whitaker’s Almanack” (1932), obtainable most
public libraries J.S.D.: (1) Nothing in the rules
to prevent a batsman taking block half-way up the
pitch if he feels like it. (2) The bowler’s throw
was illegal, but if the umpire did not call “No
ball” it could not be taken notice of. The decision
giving the striker out for obstructing the field was
wrong. .. .N.W.: The buffalo-fly originally entered
Australia by way of Melville Island at the time
buffaloes were introduced there in 1825... .R.D.: A
morganatic marriage is one expressly entered into
as such on account of the lower rank of the wife;
it is lawful wedlock and renders the offspring legiti-
mate, but excludes both them and their mother from
any claim to the father’s rank or inheritable pro
perty, and compels him to renounce any claim he
might possess to succession... .W. 8.: An adjutant
is an assistant to the commander of a regiment.
The Adjutant-General has the oversight of discipline
and training for the whole army A.M.W.: (1)
Swift and Co., 9 Queen-street, Melbourne. (2)
8 p.c. in water. (3) Probably not. Should be
used as spray on foliage. (4) N 0... .H.L.L.: Write
to the Commissioner of Family Endowment and the
Commissioner of Taxation. .. .A.A.F.: For a laundry
glaze take lib. white starch, £oz. borax, loz. white
soap, 1 dessertspoon glycerine, 1 dessertspoon tur-
pentine and 1 teaspoon common salt. Dissolve the
soap and borax in 1 pint hot water, mix all together,
then add half-pint more hot water... .J.W. M.: The
book has no value... .N.T.N.: The collective value
of a Kruger sovereign, if in mint condition, is 225.
6d. It is worth a lot more as old gold. .. .C.R.: It
should be 130 ft. 1 l-sin. long E.M.C.G.: We must
know where you reside before we can answer....
T.H.C.: Write Divisional Meteorologist, Weather
Bureau, Wickham-terrace, Brisbane... .8.M.: Get in
touch with the Chamber of Commerce, Sydney
A.A.H.: A permissive occupancy in N.S.W. is a form
of tenancy at will from the Crown, at a fixed
rental for a short period, terminable at any time
by a written demand for possession from the Secre-
tary for Lands or by written notice from the tenant.
The occupant has tenant rights in improvements
effected by him... .E.8.K.: The N.S.W. Egg Market-
ing Board consists of three members elected by
producers and two nominated by the Govt. Active
operations commenced on May 27, 1929... .T.L.M.:
Noel Coward’s play “Cavalcade’’ was first produced
at Drury-lane, London, on October 13, 1931....
C.H.W.: Don’t know of any M.L. expert. Our M.L.
representative, Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama-street
Wellington, may be able to help you. .. .W.C.D.:
(1) The question was answered in the “Man on the
Land” page (B. 9/3/’32). (2) From this office
F.C.: Get in touch with Superintendent, Sydney Tech.
College, Ultimo, Sydney... .J.H. J.0.R.: Nothing to
prevent you doing as you wish. But if you are
reprinting any previously published material you
will have to secure permission to do 50.... J.J.V.:
Full list in “The Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’
Year Book” (2s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson....
C.M.D.: (1) Write State Transport (Co-ordination)
Board, the Treasury, Sydney. (2) From Dept, of
Justice, Sydney... .R.T.: Write Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, for Bulletin No. 15,
“Ambergris and How to Recognise It.” Is
W.R.: The phrase “What a piece of work is a man!”
occurs in Hamlet, Act 11, Scene 2.... L.K.: The
“Sydney Harbor Bridge Official Souvenir and Pro-
gramme” is obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
2s. 6d E.M.C.: Jingara, haunted mountain:
coolamon, wooden dish; kangaloola, kangaroo
hunting-ground J.F.N.: W. T. Maccall’s “Direct
Current Electrical Engineering” and “Alternating
Current Electrical Engineering,” Angus and Robert-
son.... F. 8.: International Correspondence Schools,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney H.M.: James Mudie’s
“Felonry of N. S. Wales” is catalogued at 165., but
you could probably get a better price from a
private collector (Many others mailed.)


ë
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
L Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
=y. Agency Co., Ltd.
, ». ... ■ -- — ■ ' i — ———___ . wi i.
f
New Pep for Your
Easter Touring-Fit PYROX
Make the performance of your car a
real pleasure this Easter—fit a new set
of PYROX SPARK PLUGS now!
Pyrox Plugs are made in Australia to
Bosch standards by Bosch production
methods—that’s why they are better!
ē
Sold by all
Garages and
Accessory Houses
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.),
MELBOURNE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
is bulk-handling worth it?
“Namoey”: Those Westralian experiments
in bulk-handling must be accepted with
caution. All that has been done is to build
sheds at five sidings, with a. portable
conveyor at each siding for handling the
loose wheat into sheds, and from sheds to
trucks. The sheds are walled up with jarrah
or galvanised iron, and floored with jarrah
planks over dunnage. Of course, wheat can
be handled fairly cheaply by this crude
method because the overhead is compara-
tively small.
All the wheat sent to these five sidings
was taken by mills, so the real pro-
blem of bulk-handling—that of shipping
from terminals in bulk —has not yet been
encountered. As South Aus. is going to
experiment along the same lines a word of
caution is necessary. At some railways
sidings in South Aus. a battery of six sheds,
each 200 ft. by 50ft. by 16ft., would be neces-
sary. Allowing an area between each shed
the total length would be 1500 ft. The diffi-
culty would be to get space in the average
siding for such a length.
Another difficulty is getting sufficient
ground for sheds on a high level. Some of
the stacking sites are low-lying. Water run-
ning under a stack of bagged wheat on
proper dunnage may not do much harm;
but the same water entering a shed of loose
wheat, or lying beneath it, would be a
different proposition.
No crude method of storage will do at the
seaboard. And immediately the reinforced con-
crete silo is decided upon then the over-
head becomes a dominant factor. In this
respect we have the disastrous example of
the N.S.W. silos to serve as a warning to
the other States what not to- do. Allowing
5 per cent, for interest on capital and 3 per
cent, for maintenance, and depreciation, the
actual financial results of the N.S.W. scheme
are as follows :
Interest,
Maintenance,
Revenue Amor-
from Working tisation: Actual
Year. Handling. Exes. at 8 p.c. Loss.
1920- .. £26,832 £19,672 £256,090' £248,930
1921- .. 28,240 13,408 262,828 248,092
1922- .. 30,403 19,710 269,561 258,868
1923- .. 48,568 47,236 272,294 271,062
1924- .. 180,449 88,538 283,026 191,215
1925- .. 86,482 57,386 289,759 260,663
1926- . . 144,201 62,538 296,492 214,809
1927- . . 70,843 43,680 303,225 276,062
1928- . . 164,148 67,320 310,133 213,305
1929- .. 111,907 47,166 316,610 251,869
1930- .. 251,382 81,459 323,423 153,500
Total less .. £2,588,375
Revenue and working expenses are taken
from a return furnished to the Leg.
Assembly in September last. The loss is
equal to 5.65 d. per bushel on every bushel
that lias gone through the elevators since
they came into operation in the 1920-21
season. As farmers were paying 21d. per
bushel on the wheat handled in bulk, it is
obvious that the total cost for handling in
bulk exceeded Bd. per bushel —nearly four
times the cost of handling wheat in bags
from farmers’ waggons to ship’s hold! Mer-
chants’ overhead and portion of country
agents’ commission are kept separate,
because they are a charge on bulk wheat
just as much as for bagged wheat.
Of course, there is a saving on cornsacks,
but is not this saving grossly exaggerated?
First, there is the question of the weight
of the bag weighed in and paid for as
wheat. Secondly, there is the fact that on
an average wheat in bags realises about Id.
per bushel more than wheat in bulk.
Thirdly, the majority of farmers carting
their wheat to a bulk silo will require about
half of the normal number of cornsacks.
These sacks will last only about two seasons.
Such factors reduce the apparent saving on
cornsacks to a fairly small figure, which is
more than offset by the cost of bulk-handling
(including interest, maintenance, and amor-
tisation) compared with the cost of bag-
handling.
Bulk-handling would be all right in the
other States if the farmers could be assured
that taxpayers would foot the bill, as they
are doing in N.S.W. But that game is now
played out. A capital expenditure of over
£4,000,000 on a scheme which will handle
only a third of the N.S.W. crop is more
than any other State can afford.
WHEAT-GROWING COSTS.
“Dandarragan”: “Wodgil” (B. 10/2/’32),
after asking what it costs these times to
grow a bushel of wheat, affirmed that “cost-
of-production figures ought to be published
in every wheat-growing district after every
season, even if they refer to one farm only.”
This lias been done by Westralian Lands
Development, Ltd., which farms Goodlands, a
property 30 miles east of Dalwallinu, a
“wet” district. The co. stripped 3920 acres
for a yield of 70,890 bushels averaging 18.08
bushels—the State average was 11.5 bushels.
It uses crude-oil tractors and petrol-driven
trucks. Costs arc worked out as follows: —•
Per Acre. Per Bushel. Total,
s. d.
Ploughing (once)
and cultivating
(once), includ-
ing repairs and
maintenance of
machinery .. 7 3 4.Slid. V 1420 8 7
Seed (281 b. per
acre) .. .. 10 .667(1. 197 0 0
Super., landed at
Goodlands . . 4 21 2.777 d. 820 G 9
Cost of seeding,
including re-
pairs and main-
tenance of
machinery .. 210 1.883 d. 556 3 6
Cornsacks, landed
at Goodlands.. 4 2f 2.803 d. 827 18 2
Twine . . . . 11 .084(1. 25 0 0
Cost of taking
off crop and
carting to
Kalannie, 17
miles, including
repairs and
maintenance of
machinery . . 9 81 G.445d. 1903 16 10
Fire and hail
insurance . . 1 4 .888 d. 262 9 4
Depreciation of
plant and
machinery .. 4 21 2.790 d. 824 1 6
Rates, taxes, office
expenses and
overhead charges 4 21 2.781 d. 821 11 0
£1 19 1 2s. 1.929 d. £7658 15 8
In addition to the area under wheat, 40
acres were sown with Cape barley for a
yield of 125 bags, and 20 acres were cut
for 20 tons of hay. No allowance has been
made for interest; this would be a bigger
item in N. S. Wales and Victoria than in
Westralia, with its comparatively cheap
land. The Goodlands people are putting
in 4000 acres this. year.
GROUP PURCHASE OF MACHINERY.
“Clarenza” : One way in which small
farmers could reduce costs of production is
by forming co-operative groups to buy ex-
pensive machinery find implements. There
is a society of this kind at Chatsworth, on
the Clarence River (N.S.W.). Formed a
few years ago by less than a score of cane-
growers, it aimed first at purchasing a
tractor and rotary hoe (for chopping out
exhausted canefields) ; a subsoiler, a cane-
planter and other implements have been
added.
Members pay a fixed charge for each im-
plement for the time they use it, proceeds
going to pay interest and instalments, main-
tenance and depreciation. Under this scheme
each grower has at a moderate cost the use
of a wide range of up-to-date machinery
which it would be impossible for him to
obtain without co-operation. There has
been no friction among them as to the allot-
ment of a particular machine at a particular
time. Such societies ought to be as numer-
ous as schools in our farming districts.
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION.
“Buckwong” : A neighbor of mine scraped
a hole in a green patch from which water
had never run, and put in a small supply-
tank and a half-inch pipe line. Result, an
ample water supply for his homestead and
garden at an insignificant cost. Another
neighbor, seeing that the water in his creek
had greatly increased with the killing of
the timber on the hills above it, took out
a plough and led the water to and fro over
about a dozen acres of a gentle slope at the
hillfoot, planting paspalum and clover. This
trifling expense has during the last 20 years
more than doubled the annual value of a
holding of 1000 acres. It has enabled the
owner to maintain a full stocking through
all seasons.
Yet I have known graziers who have
rented and even bought river flats to tide
them over recurrent droughts, while over-
looking chances of obtaining better results
on their own land at a fraction of the cost.
Lands above flood-level, when irrigated, are
much more valuable than equally good land
below flood-level. More than half the area
of such flooded flats is always smothered
with worthless tussocks and sedges, and their
natural irrigation never occurs when it is
w*anted, only when plentiful rainfall is ocur-
ring. Where flooded flats have a market
value of £25 per acre, irrigated land of equal
quality on the only just basis, that of pro-
duct, is worth £75 per acre.
There must be millions of acres in the
Commonwealth suitable for small-scale irri-
gation. Immense enhancement of prairie
values is possible along these lines, and often
at negligible expense.
PIGS FOR BRITAIN.
“Hatter”: The Imperial Economic Com-
mittee has, for the information of overseas
producers, published detailed specifications
of the type of pig desired for the English
market. It is evident from this pamphlet
that trade opinion definitely bars both black
pigs and fat pigs.
“The rind must be thin, flesh-colored, per-
fectly smooth and devoid of any skin pig-
mentation. There must be no indication
of black bristles and no sign of seedy cut.”
Also, “The proportion of lean to fat must
be good. Approximate deadweight of car-
case bO-lOOlb., depth of back fat up to fin.;
100-1301 b., Mn. to fin. Thick lines or streaks
of fat should be absent from the visible
portion of the lean, and indications of lean-
ness must be visible between the ribs.”
The report is also quite definite as to the
breed favored. “The predominance of the
pure-bred Large White boar (also known as
the Large White Yorkshire) as the sire of
the best commercial stock, both in this coun-
try and those supplying the home market, is
unquestioned.” If Australia hopes under
the new tariff regulations to capture portion
of this market from Denmark strict atten-
tion must be paid to right breeding and
right feeding.
U.S. FRUIT-FARMING METHODS.
“John Stick”: “E.E.’s” article on U.S.
fruit-farming methods is correct in all par-
ticulars, except that four-ton trucks do not
travel 60 m.p.h. Most of those large trucks
are mechanically regulated so that they can-
not exceed 20 m.p.h.: the American knows
full well the value of driving his machine
with care.
Gravenstein apples are picked green at
sizes from 3fin. up and sold as cookers.
At that early period of the year they are
the finest culinary apple, as the housewives
in Suburbia well know; hence good prices.
Gravensteins are difficult to harvest if left
to color up to dessert requirements; they
fall so easily on approaching the colored
state. Many orchardists in Australia lay
straw under the trees and let them fall.
Some are now finding the advantage of mar-
keting them as cookers.
Another thing “E.E.” might have men-
tioned is that Californians get an income
from their ground the first year it is cleared.
The trees are planted 25ft'. apart and 30ft.
between rows. Blackberries in stools, logan-
berries trained on wires, and strawberries
are planted in the land between. They
give a fair return till the apple-trees yield.
COMBATING THRIPS.
Dr. James Davidson, entomologist at the
Waite Agricultural Research Institute
(S.A.), has been appointed by the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research to
investigate the tlirips problem. Meantime
E. H. Zeck and N. S. Noble, two officers of
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department, have
been conducting interesting experiments in
the control of the pest which did such
damage to orchards and flower gardens in
spring and early summer.
These young entomologists note that stone
fruits were first attacked, the prune, plum
and peach crops in certain districts being
very considerably reduced. Later, the thrips
turned their attention to pome fruits, caus-
ing serious injury in apple and pear
blossoms. But although abundant on citrus
and grape vines, they did not affect the
satisfactory setting of fruit. Early vege-
table crops were attacked and some losses
resulted in tomatoes and beans, but later
crops were free from injury. Flower gardens,
however, suffered very severely.
Laboratory tests with sprays revealed
that most of them failed to wet the thrips,
forming droplets which rolled off the insects’
bodies. Kerosene emulsion was a notable
exception ; in the laboratory and in the field
it proved its worth. Pending the discovery
of something better the officers “recommend
kerosene emulsion, at a dilution of 1 in 33,
as the best general spray for the control of
thrips. It was found that six applications
at 1 in 33 at three-day intervals, and three
applications at 1 in 11 at three-day intervals,
could be applied safely to the foliage of
citrus, peach and rose, and to the foliage,
flowers and fruit of the grape. With
tomatoes, it is suggested that two applica-
tions at 1 in 33 can be applied safely at
intervals of three days under normal weather
conditions, and in cool weather further appli-
cations at similar intervals may be safe.”
DISAPPEARING DISEASE OF BEES.
“Azac”: The observations of a Coona-
barabran (N.S.W.) beekeeper would seem
to explain the cause of the mysterious
disease characterised by the disappearance
of apparently healthy worker-bees after leav-
ing the hive on their pollen-gathering ex-
peditions.
At Coonabarabran, bees feeding on red-
gum blossoms were noticed falling to the
ground in large numbers. Biological ex-
amination disclosed that they had been in-
fected with Nosema apis, a minute intestinal
parasite. Piecing together the evidence it
would appear that, although the parasite
was present in the bees when they left the
hive, it needed some such agent as the red-
gum pollen or nectar to aggravate the
trouble and result in death. As bees in
most cases travel some distance from the
apiary before feeding it would be only by
the merest chance that the reason for their
non-return would be discovered. At any
rate, the condition has baffled scientific
workers for years.
RIGHT MANURES FOR POTATOES.
Victoria grows more than half the
potatoes produced in the Commonwealth.
Its Department of Agriculture is conducting
exhaustive manurial trials in all the potato-
growing districts, and the results established
to date are summarised by J. T. Ramsay in
a pamphlet issued from the Government
printery:—
The phosphoric acid requirements of the crop are
most economically supplied in the form of super.
The applications of super, giving the greatest
returns are: (a) for volcanic soils in the Central
Highlands and Western Districts, 3cwt. per acre;
(6) for Gippsland (both hill and swamp), 6cwt,
per acre.
Potash does not justify its use except at Warra-
gul; at all other centres its application causes a
decrease in the yield of potatoes. But in the
Warragul district there is a distinct advantage
obtained from the use of potash.
Nitrogen in the form of ammonium sulphate in-
creases the yield materially on all classes of soil
when used in conjunction with super, at the rate
prescribed, viz., lewt. per acre for the two broad
classifications of Victorian soils.
Mr. Ramsay mentions that the highest
authentic yield of potatoes in Victoria was
just over 25 tons per acre. It was obtained
in a wet season. As much as 50 tons per
acre have been harvested in Britain, where
artificial manures up to a ton per acre are
used; such heavy applications are not pro-
fitable in Victoria. The influence of water
on the crop is all-important. At Werribee,
owing to seepage from the irrigation chan-
nel carrying water to the crop, three rows
of potatoes next to the channel were satu-
rated practically throughout the season. The
yield from these rows was approximately
10 tons per acre; the rest of the crop beyond
the influence of the seepage, although re-
ceiving 18in. of irrigation water during the
season, yielded only seven tons per acre..
FIRST AID FOR WOUNDS.
“C. Sandig”: ‘‘Pine Scrub” (B. 2/3/’32)
will find that the use of methylated spirits
is better for cleansing a wound than lysol,
though it stings a little more. The latter
if used in cases where the patient is some-
what debilitated is not without risk from
remote toxic effects: in wounds of the lower
extremities gangrene may supervene, whilst
locally it acts as a corrosive. Bluestone is
good, but it hurts. A better method is the
application of hot cloths soaked in a satu-
rated solution of Epsom salts in water (i.e.,
until no more salts are dissolved in the
water). This will clean the wound, stimu-
late the tissues and prove very soothing.
Pressure over the wound and dry dressings
will do the rest. Incidentally, when bandag-
ing a limb it is a good scheme to encircle
the limb with a layer of cotton-wool j the
layer having marked elasticity, the tightest
bandage need cause no worry.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
In compiling this handy book for the farm
one object was kept steadily in view: to
give the man on the land only those things
which it seemed would be of most pi’actical
use to him. Most of the hints and instruc-
tions have been printed in these pages dur-
ing the past five years. To them has been
added a section devoted to “Kitchen and
Dairy,” for which the “Woman’s Mirror”
has been drawn upon; there is a further
section on “First, Aid,” and for this it is
largely indebted to the N.S.W. Department
of Health. Every effort has been made to
put the book into the land-man’s hands at
the lowest possible price, so the price has
been kept down to Is.; by post Is. 2d. It
can be got from The Bulletin head office,
Sydney, or from any branch office.
(“Land" continued on page 3^.)


I
A fife - ' x !
:/ : - ': J
iifj
I w*
Shaped for the instep
arch
That’s a distinct feature of the
design of Abbey Riding Boots. The
supple calf upper is curved to lie
comfortably over the instep arch.
There’s not the least tightness or
strain. And the stout elastic ankle
pieces increase the resilience of the
boot, which is soled with the
toughest obtainable leather. The
whole upper is lined with soft
leather. It fits with perfect ease
and smartness.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 273
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BBLL&O Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN CRACKING
HYDROCARBON OIL.
’’’THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7354/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
PROCESS FOR CRACKING HYDRO-
CARBON OILS.
’T'IIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7385/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the of its rights in the- above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
weal th of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
nro JAMES WILSON BAMFORD, form-
erly of 85 Octavia Street, St. Kilda, in
the State of Victoria, but now of parts
unknown, Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife NELLIE
BAMFORD has commenced proceedings in
the Supreme Court of Victoria for a divorce
pn the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards. UNLESS you enter an
Appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the 21st day of April, 1932, the case
may proceed in your absence, and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. S.
POWER, of the Titles Office Building,
Queen Street, Melbourne, Public 'Solicitor
for Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
BUILD UP BY CUTTING
DOWN EXPENSES.
Comparative Low Scale Advertising
in a prosperous Market is Offered
by the Perth
More Business at Less Cost.
The big Western Weekly offers
a State-wide circulation at com-
paratively cheap coverage. Every
keen business executive must
watch costs these days. Here is
the opportunity for every National
advertiser to enter a market at
minimum expense by using West-
ralia’s largest and most popular
newspaper.
STUDY THE RATES.
BUSINESS OR TRABE
(No extra charge for
Casual
50 Single-column inches
100 Single-column inches
200 Single-column inches
300 Single-column inches
400 Single-column inches
500 Single-column inches
750 Single-column inches
1000 Single-column inches
ADVERTISING
Block Space.)
6/- per inch
5/6 per inch
5/- per inch
4/10 per inch
4/8 per inch
4/6 per inch
4/4 per inch
4/2 per inch
4/- per inch
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS'-
Neu) es&efter"- ,ysJ> eaWrs '
Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
r
■ !l\\
m
i
f\W
m
s? 5
« /» A
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable, for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
.o HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
NO EXCHANGE.
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
f Telephone:- 87671.
UNION
LINE.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
WINTER SPRAYING.
"Hop Scrub” : Insects sucli as tlirips and
codlin-moth cannot be controlled by dormant
sprays, but San Jose, mussel and oyster
scales can, and should be. Lime sulphur
and oil emulsions are the two chiet clean-
up sprays. The first may be home-made;
it should test 32deg. Baume and contain
up to 30 per cent, calcium polysulphides.
Dilution varies according to Baume reading
from 1-7 to 1-10 for a dormant spray on
deciduous fruit trees, The standard non-
soap oil emulsions all give good service.
Caustic soda added at 31b. to 100 gallons
of spray solution will mop up moss and
lichens. Miscible oils are effective, but more
expensive than the non-soap type.
Spray outfits should be looked over. An
analysis of numerous American figures gives
3-?, gallons, per minute at 3001 b. to o.iOlb.
pressure as the maximum that can be eth-
ciently handled by one man. Discs bored
to 6-64 of an inch give the best results tor
these figures. Watch the disc and change it
the hole has become enlarged.
A thorough covering of the tree is. essen-
tial. Work the tree from at least four sides
and give special attention to the tops.
Don’t spray when trees are wet, nor in 00-
mile gales. Spraying even dormant trees
when they are suffering from drought Is a
bad practice.
ERADICATING ST. JOHN’S WORT.
“Azac” : The N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture’s advice to spray St. Johns wort
with sodium chlorate (lib. to lgal. water)
when the weed is in flower is not in accora-
ance with experimental results obtained in
South Aus. The South Aus, experimenters
sprayed in the winter instead of in the
spring, and July spraying in heavily-infested
country killed all the above-ground portion
of the weed, which was not seen till the
following year. A 97 p.c. kill was effected
in the first year; the 3 p.c. which reappeared
was again sprayed in the following winter
and eradicated. Spraying early m Sep-
tember, before the plants flowered but when
the flower stalks were 9in. or lOin. high,
resulted in only 40 p.c. of the weeds being-
killed ; spraying when the plants were in
flower proved to be sheer waste. Ihe
strength was as recommended in N. S. Wales.
While there can be no doubt as to the
efficacy of sodium chlorate as a weedicide,
the cost of treating large and badly infested
areas is heavy. Insect parasites introduced
from abroad did great work in laboratories
but when released in the field were preyed
upon by insect enemies, principally the trap-
door spider, and wiped out.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My Vic. property is badly infested with
bracken. Will floats help to eradicate the,
fern 9 What other methods can be tried}
—8596. , . ■
In Gippsland goats have been tried suc-
cessfully. The most effective method of
eradication is to topdress with superphos-
phate at the rate of 2cwt. per acre, and sow
a mixture of grass and clover on the infested
patches. The subsequent growth will en-
courage stock, thereby breaking down the
young fern, but it is necessary that the rab-
bits should be kept down.
I am told iodine given to dogs will keep
ticks off them. What dose should be given,
and how administered? —8702.
No scientific basis for the theory. After
removal of the ticks from the skin, iodide
(not iodine) of potassium given in the form
of tabloid or solution is said to counteract
the symptoms of paralysis and distress. Dose
is 5 to 10 grains, according to the size of
the dog, administered two or three times
daily.
(1) Method of ascertaining the cubical
contents in yards of an earth tank? (2)
Cubical contents of a tank GQft. by 66 ft. on
top; 36 ft. by 36 ft. on bottomj 6 ft. deep?—
8693
(1) Add width at top and width at bottom
(in feet) together, and divide by two. Add
length at top and length at bottom together
and divide by two. Multiply the two pro-
ducts together and multiply the result by
depth. These calculations being in feet the
product must be divided by 27 to give con-
tents in cub. yards. (2) 578 cub. yds.
How is color in wine obtained? —8798.
From the vegetable dyes contained in the
grapeskins. This dye is extracted in fer-
mentation, consequently if the juice of the
grape is fermented away from the skins the
wine is white or amber. If fermented upon
the skins, the juice becomes, impregnated
with the vegetable dyes contained in red,
black or blue grapes, 'and becomes red.
(1) Could a course in agriculture be
taken by correspondence at Sydney Tech-
nical College? (2) What icould be the
foes and cost of textbooks for such a course?
(3) To whom should I make application? —
8799.
(1) Yes. (2) Fees £1 per annum, or Bs.
per term. Students under 2l receiving less
than 30s. weekly, half these amounts. Text-
books recommended for supplementary study:
State I, £1 45.; Stage 11, £3 ss. 6d. (3)
Superintendent of Technical Education,
.Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Pine Scrub” :■ Sheepmen desiring to test
a worm drench usually try it on a sheep
which is on its last legs. This practice is
wrong;,the muscular motions of the digestive
organs are too feeble in such cases to carry
the drench quickly into contact with the
worms. Pick a wormy sheep which is
reasonably strong.
“Orel” : Don’t admire “Valerin’s”. rough-
and-ready way of knocking off sheeps’ horns
(B. 24/2/’32) ; it’s hard on the animal and
the raw core of the horn attracts flies. Saw
the horn off, three inches or so from the
sheep’s eye. With a watchful man over
the board at shearing-time the job can be
done then.
“U. Murray” : In a recent bulletin of the
lowa State College it is reported that cows
spelled three months gave twice as much
butter-fat as when milked from calving to
calving, or even when allowed two or three
weeks only. Inquiries among farmers in
touch with the college largely confirmed this
conclusion. What do M.O. L. readers think V
“H.D.8.”: A fairly good rain-gauge can
be made from a kero.-tin, the open end being
cut so that the aperture corresponds with
the shape of the bottom, and the sides not
bulged. It must be set up in an open space
unaffected by draughts, and on an absolutely
level surface. The fall can be measured
with a foot-rule; the registration will be
near enough for ordinary purposes. An
eighth of an inch will represent 124 points,
and so on.
“Hornby” : A hot poultice of mint leaves
will often reduce swelling from sprains in
horses and cattle when other things fail.
Lay the leaves in position on the wrapping
and pour the water over them, thus retain-
ing the properties of the plant in the cloth,
flannel or hessian being best for this pur-
pose. Roll tightly so that all water is
.squeezed out. Change once an hour, having
the new ready before the old is removed, to
prevent cold getting in.
“Mug Bushman”: Those wlic’ve been
boring posts know how a tin of fat for the
bit improves the work. Add some kerosene
soap, shaved up, or some soft soap _to the
fat, and see how much better the bit cuts.
Use |in. bits; treated well, they last as
long as tin., and are easier to swing. Cut
the long shank off the bit, and have it just
long enough to go through the post.
“Valerin” : The long dry spell in Riverina
is responsible for foot-sore dogs. Grease or
oil is little good because the dogs lick it.
off; try a few applications of a solution of
wattle-bark, half a pound boiled for a
couple of hours in a quart of water; a table-
spoonful of methylated spirits can be added.
“Dai R.”: The best scarecrow I’ve seen
was devised by a Rutherglen (Vic.) vign-
eron. It was simply a large-sized corru-
gated-sided tin cake-dish, revolving upon and
attached to a post by a bolt through its
centre, with long colored paper streamers
pasted round the outside. The action of
the breeze on the corrugations caused con-
stant revolution, and birds seemed to have
a real dread of it. The farmer’s opinion was
that they imagined it to be a hawk.
“ Jackaburra”: We send out large num-
bers of horse- and cow-rugs from our shop,
and many come back. Manufacturers take
the measurement of a rug from front of
chest to back of thigh, whilst many users
run the tape from withers to tail, conse-
quently the rug they get is from 9in. to a
foot too small. Attention to this matter will
save time and railage costs, and may save
a horse or cow.
“Werrimee.”: A good home-made butter-
cooler looks like a pine stool, sft. long and
10in. wide, but the top is a lid with hinges,
and the bottom is canvas, tacked to rounded
pieces of pine screwed on to the inside of
the end supports, and tacked along the top
to the side-pieces. For ventilation, a few
holes 'are bored through the upper part of
each' end. A. pine board is fitted in length-
wise to form a stand a .couple of inches
above the canvas bottom. The trough is
hal'f-filled with water, and the butter-crock,
milk jug, bottles and so forth are placed
therein. This is a cool chamber on the hot-
test day.
“Peter Quince”: When netting in the selec-
tion against bunny it is sheer waste to put
good netting on a bad fence and leave the
post-stay unprotected. To protect the post-
stay put a hood of wire-netting round the
post, fastened at each side to the wire-
netting and at least Ift. above the top.
“R.E.” • “Mulyan’s” remarks on the care
of poddy calves (B. 24/2/’32) might well
be studied by all dairy-farmers. Neverthe-
less a pot-belly is not necessarily a dis-
ability in a poddy. A capacious stomach in
a dairy cow indicates a vigorous appetite
and an inclination to wolf large supplies
whenever available, thus affording leisure
for rumination. Cows that appear to be
always lying down chewing the cud are gener-
ally in the front rank at milking-time,
i “Mug Bushman”: For.those who have a
neddy that girth-galls easily. Take a piece
of motor-bike or small-car tube, about 6in.
shorter than the girth, and run girth and
surcingle through it. The rubber never gets
hard, and can be cleaned of sweat and dirt
with a drop of water. Tubing (from a
balloon tyre this time) makes a good fly-
veil, and one couldn’t get better material
with which to make dog-boots.
“Mulgo” : A good horse may be spoilt by
being coupled with a bad worker or a rogue
in the plough, or, for that matter, anywhere
else. The shirker puts extra work on his
mate, and when he is whipped up the good
horse responds as though more was expected
of him. Beside that, the plunging or jerking
of the laggard disconcerts and injures the
other, whilst the unevenness of the’draught
makes the working uncomfortable. Horses
should be paired with regard to their tem-
perament, weight and willingness in the
collar. With an honest pair, pulling steadily
and evenly, the ploughman’s job is a pleasure,
compared with what an uneven team can
make it.
“E.11.M.”: To minimise the club-root
disease in cabbages and cauliflowers, mix
even parts of soil and lime with water and
stand the young plants in the mixture' for
a few hours before planting out.
Over 80 p.c. of the lubricants used by.
Dorman Long in making the Bridge were
supplied by Vacuum Oil Co., and in its
Kiosk at the Easter Show in Sydney the
co. has a model of the Bridge, 16ft. iff
length, with train and vehicular traffic cross-
ing. Other sections of this exhibit will illus-
trate the important part played by correct
lubrication in every branch of industry, in-
cluding the agricultural.
“Breeding trials recently concluded at
Bathiirst with merino ewes and Dorset Horn
and Ryeland rams have proved definitely
that merino ewes will mate readily during
any month of the year in that district, and
that the two breeds of rams used can also
be used successfully during each month of
the year.” So the N.S.W. “Agricultural
Gazette”, reports; and early mating in cer-
tain fat-lamb raising districts is important 1 .
But E. A. Elliott, the department’s sheep
and wool expert, points out the same would
not necessarily apply in hotter districts,
particularly if* the season was unusually hot.


HANDY HINTS for the FARM
How Mam ; Sublets Does This
Shilling Book Cover?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S:
ĕ
54
45
51
5
54
24
25
21
G
20
43
20
20
43
22
18
78
60
90
24
84
84
84
84
4
12
17
32
ė
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few he doesn’t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
>-
06
U
D
U
w
Q
06
O
H
co
w
OQ
77x—W. JNO. IiAKEK
FINEST QUALITY AND
FINISH, EXTRA FULL
II O L L O W GROUND.
First-class in every re-
spect. fin. wide.
Xylonite Handle .... 13/6
LADY’S SCISSORS CASE. Made
of Fine Roan Leather, lined with
Velvet. Size when folded about
Sin. x 31in.
No. 6—4 pair, contains: 1 pair
Tin. Cutting-out Scissors, 1 pair
Embroidery. 1 pair Nail, and 1
pair sin. Lady’s Scissors; all
nickel-plated. 37/6 per case, com-
plete. Post free
Made in Sheffield.
England.
2211—STRONG BOW
CUTTIK G-O U T
SCISSORS, Bent
shank.' Easy Bow.
Nickel-plated; length
overall, Tin eT.
“T H E LASSIE”
LAD Y’S C O M-
P ANION. Covered
with . Roan Leathef,
Fine Leather Lined.
Size when closed,
fin. x 4in.; contain-
ing. 1 pair Scissors.
N i c k e 1-plated.
Needles and other
fittings. Price, 22/6
complete. Post free
812—COUNTRY GENTLEMAN’S
POCKET KNIFE, 4 Special
Blades, 3*in. Stag Haft, 13/6;
Ivory, 13/6; Pearl, 17/6 each.
Post free.
N6O—STRONG NAIL
NIPPER, Nickel -
plated, 4tin. overall.
German make.
7/6 each. Post free.
Post tree for Cash with Order.
W. JNO. BAKER, LTD., 3 Hunter Street, Sydney
NEXT TO RAILWAY ENTRANCE.
ę
“Acme”
The Best
Low-down
Hand
Pump
for all-round use
The “ACME” is a splendid Pump for Spraying,
Irrigation Work, Filling Tanks, Fire-fighting and all-
round use on the land.
Double-acting and of sturdy build. Less power is needed
to work the “ACME” owing to the cog gear on the head.
Valve seats are brass. Fitted for 2in. pipes. '
Full particulars and Prices on application.
Many other Pumps are shown, with full specifications and
prices, in our booklet “PROFITABLE PUMPING ”
Send for a Free Copy.
icrsonis
Proprietary limited
“Pump Specialists,”
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
554 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.


>v.
'fcM—
— J? *7 sgg£££
■ ..;/
2<£
*#
V.
m*
■^7 %
V?
i *-‘ ••!,;> -
h
k \orf
l»K'
■tern/
MiP
ON RESERVE
PORT
c bottled BV the makers'
6 FLUID ozs
Fortunate
Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy
sun, the broad vineyards of Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created on these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place-these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think.
Procurable at all Hotels and
Licensed Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades of wines.
mm. s
'
Bank of New South Wales
Established 1817.
With which are amalgamated THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK and THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF
COMMERCE. LTD.
Paid-up Capital . .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
£6,150,000
£8,780,000
£23,710,000
Directors:
THOMAS BUCKLAND—President.
ROBERT W. GILLESPIE, Esq. CHARLES BINNIE, Esq.
SIR KELSO KING, K.B. THOMAS H. KELLY, Esq.
JAMES BURNS, Esq. RT. HON. SIR ADRIAN KNOX
General Manager—ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
, P.C., K.C.M.G.
695 Branches and Agencies in all the States of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea (Mandated Territory),
and London. Since, 1861 the growth of the Bank’s business is shown by the following figures.
Year.
1861
1881
1901
1921
1931
Capital and
Reserve Fund.
£763,852
1,500,000
3,250,000
8,425,000
14,930,000
Deposits.
£2,777,759
10,219,377
20,506,019
50,489,136
80,578,801
Total Assets.
£5,926,262
14,841,768
28,539,174
71,865,352
105,377,104
Banking Business of every description transacted at all Branches and Agencies.
Safety Deposit Vaults available at Head Office, 341 George Street, Sydney.
SHADOW SHOWS.
M.-G.-M.’s “Mata Hari,” at Sydney
Capitol, represents Hollywood’s favorite re-
cipe for financial success—a fruity melo-
drama, directed, acted and photographed by
artists. Greta Garbo, as the spy, gives
another of her famous foreign street-walker
impersonations. The original may have been
rather like her. She probably had the same
kind of voice, used the same methods of
seduction, and was as good-looking. Where
Garbo excels is as a putter-on of clothes.
She can wear anything. In this play she
appears in a succession of odd, not to say
fantastic, garments, and they all look right.
She may, or may not, be a great actress,
but she is certainly the world’s greatest man-
nequin. Lionel Barrymore, as a Russian
official, who in his infatuation lets her
worm information from him, is out of the
quiet naturalistic picture. Apparently he lias
taken to the talkies too late in life to get
rid of his stage mannerisms. Some of his
rantings and posturings, which would have
won rounds of applause in the day of the
legitimate, only won rounds of sniggers the
other night. Lewis Stone, as a German
secret-service agent, gives an interesting ex-
ample of the technique required by the
screen ; lie economises in gesture, movement
and lung-power, and is proportionately effec-
tive. Mata Hari might have go on pleasing
her German employer and Russian admirer,
and frustrating the efforts of the French
to bowl her out, if she hadn’t fallen in love
with Ramon Novarro. She was base enough
to keep him in her bedroom while his
dispatches were being photographed, but
noble enough to sl*>ot Barrymore when the
old gentleman, crazed by was about
to give him away over the telephone. Novarro
is very well cast. His touch of boyish
fatuity heightens the sinister atmosphere in
which he moves. The last scene shows him
saying good-bye to Mata. He is blind, and
doesn’t know she is leaving him to face a
firing-party. The agony might have been
cut a little, but, as agony, it is beyond
criticism.
* * *
The theme of “Star Witness” (First
National), at Sydney Regent, is the intimi-
dation by gangsters of. witnesses for the
prosecution in charges which involve gang
leaders. Half a dozen members of a middle-
class family clearly observe the cold-blooded
shooting of two men outside their home by
a man in a yellow raincoat. They identify
him and the gangster, Campo, is arrested.
Next evening' the father is offered money not
to give evidence; he refuses and is brutally
attacked and left for dead. One of the
children, a boy, is kidnapped. Word is
sent to the family that if they testify the
child will be killed. They all cave in except
grandfather, a Civil War veteran and a
drunken inmate of a home; he declares
that his descendants are a cowardly crew
and that the loss of the child, dread-
ful as it may be, is of less consequence than
the execution of a murderer. At the trial
the accidental discovery and rescue of the
child by grandfather give the rest of the
family courage to tell the truth and make
conviction a certainty. Charles Sales scores
as the disreputable but undaunted aucieut. |
Ralph Ince makes Campo a terrifying per-
sonage, Walter Huston and Francis Starr
are lifelike as the fear-ridden parents, and
the rest of the cast fit in well.
# * *
Linda (Rose Hobart) journeys to a
native kingdom ‘‘East of Borneo” (Sydney
Lyceum) to beg her estranged husband
(Charles Bickford), a doctor who drinks, to
resume relations. The rajah (Georges Rena-
vent), having ordered the doctor to be thrown
to the sacred crocodiles for trying to escape
with Linda, assails her honor; she shoots
him. Then a volcano, conveniently fulfilling
a prophecy that when the ruler died it would
burst, effaces the landscape with lava (well-
faked, this), but the reunited lovers escape
unscathed. That’s the brummagem setting in
which Universal has embedded some pictorial
gems of ethnology and zoology. From a
raft paddled by chanting natives, Linda sees
orang-outangs, monkeys, water-buffaloes,
crocs., leopards and tigers. Night on tlie
river is a masterpiece of sound reproduction.
The chirp of innumerable insects suddenly
ceases; a python uncoils from an overhang-
ing tree and thrusts its head through the
mosquito-nets under which Linda sleeps.
Then it writhes across the raft over the
chest of a fear-frozen oarsman. The plop as
it dives back into the river shatters the
silence and suspense.
* # %■
“Let’s Love and Laugh,” at Sydney Hay-
market, is nominally set in N’Yark, but it
was made by British International Pictures
and is a typical Gene Gerrard farce. Gene
celebrates his last night of baehelordom and
wakes up in his grand piano next day to
find his wife installed in his home. It is not
the lady lie was booked to marry, but Fay,
a cabaret girl (Muriel Angelus). He offers
her thousands of dollars to call it off, but
she says she loves him, and when her family
arrives to slay the abductor of their inno-
cent chick she shows her marriage lines.
Appeased, they accept her invitation to stay
with them. But Bill, her boy friend, gives
battle, and Gene and he crash over a bal-
cony, disappearing in the river. They crawl
out on opposite banks, unbeknownst to each
other-, and Fay lets each think he’s mur-
dered the other. Money and jewels are
stolen, and, although he is rapidly falling in
love with her, Gene suspects Fay. Bill
proves that someone else is guilty, and Gene
and Fay are reunited. Songandance inter-
ludes abound.
“368”: “E.S.S.” (B. 24/2/’32) chides
Australian motion-picture producers for over-
looking the possibilities of the Great Barrier
Reef. The answer is “Not guilty.” In a
few weeks the Australian public will view on
the screen for the first time some of the
wonders of the Reef. Noel Monkman last
year spent six months up there taking pic-
tures of animal life, birds, fish and some won-
derful microscopic studies of the creatures
who build the coral formation. H'e and F. W.
Thring are equal shareholders in Educational
Films, and the result of their effort will be
submitted to the public together with “The
Sentimental Bloke.” One scene in particular
is a notable naturalistic scoop—a turtle lay-
ing eggs at the rate of six a minute.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; 11. J. liyan, Esq.;
W. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the ■ World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRITAIN —MaKe Yovir Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—B£ hours’, non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER.JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 15M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEARIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUHuuSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Moifaa, who won the Grand National in
Spencer Gollan’s colors just .28 years ago,
was the last horse from this part of the
world to distinguish himself abroad. Before
that Newhaven, The Grafter and Austra-
lian Star took the City and Suburban in
consecutive years (1899, 1900 and 1901),
Georgie captured the Cambridgeshire (1898) ,
and Merman got away with the Cesarewitch
(1897), the Goodwood Cup (1899) and the
Ascot Gold Cup (1900). Now Pliar Lap has
revived the reputation of the Australasian
thoroughbred overseas, and the hopes of stud-
masters with yearlings to sell, by making
hacks of a strong field of American horses in
the Agua Caliente Handicap. Favorite at 7
to 5, he went to the front as soon as Elliott,
the Melbourne jockey, moved on him, and
won by lengths from Reveille Boy, the third
favorite, and Scimitar, an outsider, in 2min.
2 4-ssec. —a course record for 10 furlongs,
but not quite so good as Phar Lap’s fastest
Randwick time. The crowd gave horse and
rider a great reception, nor was Woodcock,
Telford’s understudy, fox-gotten—his train-
ing methods had been criticised by some of
the American watcliei-s. The critics are now
proclaiming Phar Lap one of the greatest
horses they have ever seen.
:J: tfc * *
Because of the Harbor Bridge celebrations
the A.J.C. transferred its pre-Easter meet-
ing from out-of-the-way Warwick Farm to
Randwick, and stax-ted the first race at a
quarter past two. This made it a hurried
affair, but it was very enjoyable. And the
Chipping Norton Stakes was a much more
exciting event than the public was pre-
pax-ed for with Ammon Ra (2 to 1 on) in
the field. When Anxnxon Ra shook off
Johnnie Jason and Chatham a furlong
or so from the finish it seemed to be
all over, but Johnnie Jason, who carried
the same weight (Bst. 81b.), came again, and
Bert " Its a great structure
Ge-rt'/Bv -the wacYj Bert, who wi,s
Horatio * "
Bert ; "Oh, he the fellow
WHO HELD THE £>R'«DC,e'f
He MUST KA.VE BEEM
SOME &ICq Boy
Xightmarch (9st. 21b.) made a bid for vie-
tory on the rails. The old horse got in the
last run, and was going the best of the three
as they passed the judge’s box, but Ammon
Ra was half a length in front; Johnnie
Jason was a length behind the Melbourne
Cup winner. Chatham, who is looking a
bit light, was fourth.
• • • ■ •
The Liverpool Handicap brought out a
field of 22, mostly candidates for the Don-
caster. “Nine to two the field” was called,
and Winooka went to twos. Windbag
was not much to look at, but his sons
Winnnka anH Plinthfim arp verv handsome
P® “5
got him away well, and his backers were on
good terms with themselves when he led
round the home turn. But the effort to lead
all the way up the long straight proved a bit
too much for him, though he battled out
every inch, and Tom Pinch (3 to 3), admir-
ably ridden by Cook, defeated him by a neck,
running the six furlongs in lmin. 13isec. —
the track had not recovered from the heavy
rain of Wednesday and Thursday. Holdfast
emerged fast from the bunch, to run third,
Winooka comes down 61b. in the Doncaster,
and that will be a help.
■ • • • • •
Pike made no mistake on Veilmond (3
to 1) in the Celebration Hnndican He
waited on !he £ld fo“a lafetnnTand to
a few strides Veilmond had the race at his
mercy, covering the mile and a half in the
good time, for the day, of 2min. 331 sec. He
carried lib. more than his Sydney Cup weight,
and it was certainly a capital Cup trial, but
Moss’s horse has been a disappointment in
big races. Carry On, his stable-companion,
ran decently, but it was reserved for John
Buchan and Panther to fill the minor places.
Chide shaped poorly, Century Tire shock-
ingly.
Though there were 23 runners, backers
wanted nothing but Jacko at the opening
of operations in the Cabramatta Handicap,
and from 9 to 2 he was soon at 5 to 2. Never
farther back than fourth, he shot to the
front when six furlongs of the eight had
been traversed, tired and was well beaten
by Rogilla (8 to 1), Le Legion, the
second favorite, being a fair third. They
were a strung-out lot, and evidently the
going told on some of them, especially Jacko.
who had 271 b. more than his Doncaster
weight. Different going and tactics next
Saturday will make a difference to the form.
Rogilla, who was bred by Hunter White (he
is by Roger de Busli —Speargilla), is not in
the Doncaster.
So far Manfred has scarcely fulfilled stud
anticipations based on his noble conforma-
tion and his great record on the turf, but
he begat a fairly good horse in Rodondo, out
of Recitation. Rodondo, who is trained, at
Randwick by F. Williams for J. E. Brien,
gave Simpson a comfortable ride to victory
in the first division of the Novice Handicap,
and was clocked to do the seven furlongs
in lmin. 26 j sec. Truesign cut the fraction
of a second off this time in the second divi-
sion. She is by Heroic —Lovesign, and, like
Rodondo, a three-year-old. There is no doubt
as to Heroic’s success as a sire. Of course
Manfred ought to have plenty of time before
him; he is a year younger than Heroic.
Victorians formed a high opinion of
Kuvera (Brazen —Varta Mozzle) when he
downed Vauntry and Closing Time in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and reduced
the fastest time for that race to lmin. 24£sec.
However, it is questionable whether Kuvera
is the best of the Sydney two-year-olds. In
a few more strides he would have been
passed by Oro (Roger de Busli —Sweet
Alison) in the first division of the Fairfield
Handicap; McCarten had to apply the whip
desperately to make a dead-heat of it. Cer-
tainly Kuvera was giving Oro 71b. They
ran the six furlongs in lmin. 14sec.; Trea-
sury was third. Never Despair, winner of
the second division, is a half-brother (by
Scaliger) to Quintus, who as a three-yeai*-
old performed the rare feat of running second
in the Epsom Handicap and, next season,
came home in the Newmarket.
3: * 3= *
The 1930-31 racing year was a bad one
for the A.J.C., and the club is looking for-
ward to making up some of the leeway at the
Doncaster Handicap-Sydney Cup meeting,
which begins next Saturday. It deserves a
good round, for, maintaining its high tradi-
tions, it has stuck loyally to owners,
breeders and trainers in discouraging cir-
cumstances. It has been mindful of the
public also; the conversion of the Julius
tote into a win-and-place machine has been
welcomed by the small punter; if a doubles
tote were added for this no expensive
apparatus is needed Randwick would be
up-to-the-miimte m all respects. As it is,
the world has few grander racecourses, A. J.C.
Easter programmes are always attractive,
will be ® up during the next ten
days * , This Pa p e expects them to show
themselves superior to the o der horses in
w.-f.-a.. and handicap races alike,
Ammon Ra is to start in the St. Leger.
He seems to have sobered down since the
spring—certainly he does not take so much
out of himself by getting excited and break-
ing out into a muck sweat—but neither in
the A.J.C. Derby, which he won, nor in
the Victorian classics, which he lost, did he
give the impression of being a true stayer.
Middle Watch, who beat him in the Vic-
toriaa St ; Leger will probably do it again
on Saturday; Johnnie Jason may also prove
« „2T
Chatham s form is puzzling That he is
fP od , lors ,f 4 x ® J^ Ut 1,!!
Melbourne showings suggested that lie has
not qmte got oyer the effects of his set-
hack m tne spn g.
Chatham is still in the Doncaster with
Bst. 31b. Whether hej runs or not, the three-
year-olds will have strong representation—
Winooka (Bst. 31b.), Der mid (Bst. lib),
Stephen (Bst. lib.), Gallantie (Bst.),
Lightning March (7st. 91b.), Golden Gate
(7st. 91b.), Ptolemy (7st. 41b.), Le Legion (7st.
lib.), Ilerolage (7st.), Phlare (6st. 131 b.)
and Jacko (6st. 71b.), though Gallantie has
been under a cloud and one or two of the
others may be kept for lighter tasks. Of
the older horses the best-handicapped seem
to be Cathmar (Bst. 71b.), Waugoola (Bst.
51b.), Myles la Coplen (Bst. 21b.), Sir Duni-
nald (7st. 121 b.), Legislator (7st. 111 b.)
and Sun Eagle (7st. Sib.). But The Bul-
letin thinks a. three-year-old will win, and
expects it to be Jacko, Saturday’s failure
notwithstanding. Lack of experience may
tell against him; still, he has won
a Randwick mile, with 7st. 101 b. up,
in faster time (lmin. 37)) sec.) than
many Doncasters have been traversed in,
and he will probably strip a better horse
on Saturday. Of course, Winooka’s second
in the Newmarket gives him a great chance.
He also has been successful at Randwick
over the distance, and he has only 21b. more
than Fuji San had in 1925, and 61b. less than
Valicare carried in the following year.
Back to his 1929 form, Nigh'tmarch
would be highly considered for the Sydney
Cup with 9st. 131 b.—with lib. less he ran
a close second to Loquacious in the Metrop.
—and his two recent races suggest that he
is not far from that standard. Veilmond
has been raised 21b., to 9st. 111 b., for Satur-
day’s win; but he can carry weight. Second
Wind (9st. 91b.), Shadow King (9st. 21b.)
and Chide (9st. 71b.) do not attract; but
Carry On (Bst. 101 b.) reads well. Admiral
Drake (Sst. 91b.) has a good Maoriland
reputation, and Strength (Sst. 61b.) can
stay, as also can Mira Donna (Bst.). But
again it is a question of what is going to
beat the three-year-olds. Consider them:
Johnnie Jason (Sst. 41b.), Middle Watch
(Sst. lib.), Chatham (Bst.), Burwood (7st.
Sib.), Perinthus (7st. 51b.), Pretzel (7st.
41b.), Le Legion (7st.) and Tenacious (6st.
71b.) —a rattling good collection. As often
as not, the Sydney Cup goes to a horse
that is among the leaders from the start.
Pretzel runs his races in that fashion, and
this colt of Payten’s—he is by Spelthorne—
Biscuit—is going to be exceedingly hard to
beat. He was unlucky in the Bond Cup,
won by Mira Donna, whose subsequent
form was good, and when undergoing the
seasoning process in Melbourne he twice
beat Madstar, winner of the Australian Cup.
Fancies:—
Autumn Stakes: Nightmafch; next, Veil-
mond
St." Leger: Middle Watch, 1; Johnnie
Jason, 2; Ammon Ra, 3.
Doncaster: Jacko. 1; Winooka, 2; Sun
Eagle 3 ’
Sires’‘Produce Stakes: Tingalba.
Vaucluse Handicap: Bold Roy; next,
Rogilla
Sydney Cup: Pretzel, 1; Middle Watch,
o. Perinthus 3
’% ’ „
George Jones, the Maoriland trainer, had
mixed luck at the two Moonee Valley meet-
ings. Rulanut easily captured a juvenile
event for him on the holiday, but Spearlad
was a good thing beaten in the Eight'Hour
Welter. Rulanut drifted from 5 to 2 to
4 to 1 in the Hollymount Handicap betting
on Saturday. lie ran last. Jones after-
wards stated that Rulanut had been off color.
Why, then, should he have been started?
• • • • • •
The failure of Spearlad in the Moonee
Ponds Handicap must have cost Jones a tidy
penny. Backed down to 2to 1, with sto 1
bar one on offer in a field of nine, Spearlad
held a nice position four furlongs from home
in a 1-1-mile journey. However, when Ale-
maji flashed past him the favorite faded out
and finished a poor sixth. Equally dis-
appointing form was displayed by the Caul-
field winner, Kidston, who was well placed
early but tossed up the fight before it began
in earnest. Vertigern headed the unplaced
division. Lady Pam came to light for
Maoriland in the Knoll Handicap, while Ten-
terden (stable-mate of Vertigern) landed
a division of the Highweight Handicap. In
connection with Lady Pam’s success, Jones
was compelled to pay a winning fee to two
jockeys, Skidmore and Callinan, an appren-
tice in Cecil Godby’s stable.
Sydney racing followers should be on the
alert for Lady Pam when she runs. The
mare is just striking her best M.L. form:
she scored with great ease from two out-
siders, Thrawn and Bunker Hill. In the
spring Lady Pam, conceding Bronze Eagle
111 b., finished second to him in the G. G.
Stead Cup at Christchurch.
s}: Sfc
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Easter Stakes: Scintillation; next, Domi-
nant.
Point Cook Trial: Paybon ; next, Periander.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A few pounds lighter than in any previous
bout here, Young Gildo (Bst. 6flb.) was out-
fought by his fellow-Filipino Pablo Dano
(Bst. 4Jlb.) at Leichhardt on Friday night.
A packed house saw Gildo start speedily, but,
Dano’s superior strength and ability stood
out in many stirring short-arm rallies. With
a straight right to the ribs he floored his
foe in the tenth. Gildo, claiming that the
punch had landed low, staggered up at
“nine”; then the bell came to his assistance.
He had the better of the going in the
eleventh, but after that Dano took charge
again, and, winning at least 11 of the. 15
rounds, Pablo earned a very popular decision.
But what’s the matter with Australian
boxing when they have to match Manilamen
in Sydney? Another Mclntosh regime is
obviously needed.
* % *
After the cleanest wrestling match yet
seen at Leichhardt, Walter Browning (list.
l|lb.) back-slammed Leon Labriola (14st.
31b.) in the fifth round on Saturday, and
made it two falls to one. Labriola lost all
interest in the proceedings as soon as the
back of his head hit the mat.
The Ins and Outs
South Australia and Queensland generally
play interesting cricket, and their match at
Brisbane was the most exciting of the
season. South Aus. had first use of the
wicket, and Richardson (121), Catchlove
(103 n. 0.) and Lonergan (95) made most of
their opportunities. Though seven batsmen
put on only 35 among them the innings
closed for 4io. Gilbert (4 for 98). Thurlow
(4 for 106) and Plubbard (2 for 42) shared
the wickets. Hogg (39), Hansen (44) and
Cook (52) gave Queensland a good start,
but when 6 were down for 199 a first-innings
defeat looked a strong possibility. However,
Bensted came to light with a brilliant 145,
including a six and 24 fours, and with
Mossop (59) helping, the S. Aus. score wag
passed by 10. Wall (2 for 55) had
the best average, Grimmett (3 for 114)
being pasted. Richardson (43), Lonergan
(97) and Gatchlove (23) again got away
among the runs in S. Aus.’s second inn-
ings; the two youngsters were run
out —hard luck for Lonergan in par-
ticular. The tail wagged vigorously r veteran
Carlton (33 n. 0.) and Wall (17) added 62
for the last wicket, assisted by sundries
(75 during the match) ; and Queensland was
left with 280 to make. With Grimmett
(5 for 44) and Carlton (3 for 24) on the
spot, and Walker helping behind the sticks
(three caught and one stumped),' it could
manage only 129. So S. Aus. won out-
right by 150.
£ * * *
Lonergan continued his fine sequence by
top-scoring, with 68, for S. Aus. against
N. S. Wales at the Sydney C.G. He is a
confident little batsman, very fast on his
feet, and his run-stealing with Nitschke
(45) caught the crowd’s fancy. These two,
with Whitfield (51), were the chief contri-
butors to the visitors’ total of 272; O’Reilly,
who is shaping like a real Test-match howler,
bagged five of them for 68. Tim Wall ended
the day sensationally by bowling Fingleton
and Hunt for ducks, and on Monday Carlton
dislodged Bradman’s middle stump when he
had made 23. N.S.W. fell for 247 (Bill
76 n. 0.).
(Continued on next page.)
Cambridge has equalled an old Oxford
record (it lias stood since 1898) by winning
the boatrace for the ninth year in succes-
sion; and it won by four lengths in 19min.
llsec. The 4-J-milc journey from Putney
to Mortlake usually takes a good bit longer
than that.


Mick Simmons
RIFLE
v \ W V
sWiilursTS
g-
An Unrivalled
Range of
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 2-THE MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt.
For short, long or long-rifle cartridges;
21 in. round barrel; weight, *> £ I
about 3 fib
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 37-
No. 4—BAYARD BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal.,
for short, long or long-rifle cartridges.
Take-down, with safety bolt, 20in.
round barrel; weight about og /
3lb &Dr
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 4A-F.N. SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt, 21 in. barrel;
veight, about 3 fib &DI
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 37-
No. 8—STEVENS* CRACK-
SHOT RIFLE, No. 26, New Model,
22-cal., under-lever action; 18in. round
barrel, knife-blade front and open
rear sights; weight, about OO/iS.
3 fib OO/O
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
¥o. lO—STEVENS* ** FAVOR-
TE” RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibres,
t.F. round 24in. barrel, case-hardened
rame, solid breechblock, take-down
ction, open front and sporting /SO /
ear sights; weight, 4flb D+ f l' m
Carriage Paid
No. 11-STEVENS* BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal., magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10 long-rifle cart-
ridges—mixed or separate; 22in. round
Darrel, slide action, ivory-bead front
ind ladder rear sights; weight, _ — ,
4f lb 7 Dr
Carriage Paid
No. 31-BROWNING AUTO-
MATIC RIFLE, MODEL 24.
22 short or long rifle; each rifle takes one
size cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol-
grip, 19fin. barrel; length, 36in.; bead
Front and rear sights; safety bolt; barrel
may be dismounted by unscrewing
threequarter turn; weight, Q. SI
Hib o5/-
Carriage Paid
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22-cal., 23in. round steel barrel, bolt
action; handles short, long or long-rifle
cartridges, gold-bead front and adjust-
able rear sights; pistol-grip A r\!
stock; weight, 4flb *T'**l m
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
Avail yourself of the Services of
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY.
Revolver and Rifle Shooting
Instructor at Mick Simmons,
and Australia’s Recognised
Authority on Guns, Rifles and
Ballistics.
All Letters to Box 18B, P.O., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmons Itd
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
Racquet and Bawl
The little tin gods of N.S.W. lawn tenuis
suffered a succession of shocks last week.
With Sydney full of visitors play in the
State championships had to be cut out for
two days because of rain. Before this
tragic loss of gate-money occurred Donohue
collapsed in his dressing-room after a gruel-
ling five-set match with Jim Willard, who
beat him; and first-aid had to be rendered
to Aub Willard, who had something in his
eye. Worse still, young McGrath, whose
presence in the singles was reckoned to be
worth £2OO or so at the turnstiles, was
vanquished early by W. B. Walker; he won
the first set but lost the other three. Of
course, the lad, who has just turned 16,
has been playing far too much tennis; all
the same, he is to get no rest till he goes
aboard the English boat —perhaps in an
ambulance. A series of exhibition matches
has been arranged for the overtasked infant
so that he may be the means of furnishing
funds for the trip out of which little tin
gods are getting so much cheap advertise-
ment. That fine Australian O’Hara Wood
has pertinently mentioned the case of
Maurice McLoughlin, who, as a result of
being overplayed in boyhood, was a back
number at 23; but his warning has fallen
on deaf ears.
* * * *
“Bet”: 11. H. Hackett, once one of
America’s leading doubles players, dropped
into Sydney recently. With F. B. Alex-
ander he won the doubles championship from
1907 to 1910 inclusive, and represented
America in the Davis Cup doubles twice,
playing with Alexander against Britain in
1908 and in the following year with It. D.
Little, both years in which Australasia, Jed
by Brookes and Tony Wilding, lifted the pot.
“Peel Island”: Tennis is not necessarily
popular with everyone. The other day a
widow residing at one of Brisbane's seaside
resorts applied to a Supreme Court Judge for
an injunction to restrain a tennis club from
playing on courts contiguous to her property.
In her affidavit the old lady stated that not
only was she disturbed by the objurgations
of the players but that her windows were
smashed and her garden plants broken by
tennis balls, while the incursions of players
to recover the same had become unbearable.
She dreamed every night of tennis balls, and
in her dreams people were chasing her and
pelting her with the objectionable pills.
’Sonah granted an injunction until such time
as the club could erect a fence to prevent
the tennis balls invading the lady’s privacy
and dreams.
“Kaikoura”: The tour of the Australian
tennisettes in Maoriland was a great
success, the girls proving a lot too clever for
their M.L. cousins. In addition to their
tennis triumphs, they had a good time
socially, being feted everywhere. One inter-
esting yarn concerns an immense box of
chocolates presented to them by a Dunedin
admirer. This was mislaid when leaving
the city, and there was almost a strike when
the management refused the team permis-
sion to return for it. I sympathise with
them, for it is easy to understand that they
valued the thing not as something to eat but
as a rare and priceless curio. Anything
that an inhabitant of Dunedin gives away
for nothing is calculated to rank as a
“museum piece” with collectors the world
over.
* * * :i--
“Tenakoe”: The Maoriland tennis con-
trollers have asked the Australian Davis
Cup team to play exhibition matches at Wel-
lington and Auckland before their ship
leaves the latter city for America on
April 5. Failing the Davis Cuppers, the
All Blacks ask for two of the best eight
in Australia. Those specially mentioned are
McGrath, Moon or Dunlop. McGrath is
not in the least likely to go, since he is
bound for Europe shortly. Failing McGrath,
Turnbull, of South Australia, reserve man
for the Davis Cup team, is the obvious pick.
Much depends on how much brass the M.L.
body is prepared to put up. They did well
over the recent visit of the Australian
women’s side.
ifc
“Centre Court”: The temperamental
tennis-player has been the subject of a
good deal of comment by English writers on
the game of late. One of them, W. Packford,
has come forward with a demand that
something should be done to squelch these
nuisances. Even at Wimbledon, he says,
he has seen rackets thrown “here and
there” and attempts to intimidate officials
by “remarks of an uncomplimentary
nature.” Packford also objects to the
player who, when he narrowly misses a
point, drops his racket and throwing his
arms high in the air silently appeals to
the unheeding heavens. We have some of
the breed in Australia and the wonder is
that they are tolerated. We all know
what happens to the footballer who makes
remarks of “an uncomplimentary nature”
to officials, and even Don Bradman would
have trouble in living it down if he hurled
down his bat and appealed to the heavens
because an outfielder saved 'a four on the
boundary.
The Nineteenth Hole
“A.G.S.” : Playing the short 17tli with a
mashie at Blackheath (N.S.W.), I was
watching the flight of the ball, the club
held in the air. A robin redbreast flying
past perched on the blade of the club. The
implement was not moved, and the bird
remained for about 15 seconds, quite at
home, before flying off. The incident was
witnessed by my astonished partner and a
lady who happened to be resting on the seat
at the 17th. There may be a tip in this
for the Sydney Cup.
s|c :Js ❖ ifc
“Carnoustie”: Once more the Amurrican
Eagle has blunted his claws on the immut-
able conventions of golf. It is only a year
since the Yanks avowed they would use only
the ball ordained by themselves. St. Andrews
replied that the American ball would not be
permitted anywhere within its jurisdiction—
which means the civilised earth outside
the U.S.A. Now America has abandoned the
so-called “balloon,” with which no one but
the absolute experts could deal, and has
returned to the standard as laid down by
St. Andrews. This says that a golf ball
shall be 1.62 inches in diameter and 1.62
ounces in weight. To save their faces, the
Yanks have made their new 7 ball 1.68 inches
in diameter, but the weight is the same as
the British.
* * ❖
“Castle Hill”; The visit to Australia of
a team of British golfers, which has been
angled for for some years past, has again
gone into the discard. It seemed fairly
certain that it would come off this
season, bnt after arrangements were well in
train the financial pinch at both ends of
the trip made all concerned think better of
it. The cost of the visit would be about
£2OOO, and the money would have to be put
up by the various States. Few clubs are
financial enough for this nowadays, and
there is no chance under Australian condi-
tions of getting the money back from the
gates. However, it is generally agreed that
the trip has only been postponed and not
abandoned. Australian golf badly needs a
tonic of the sort, and once the ice has
been broken it may be possible to have a
periodical exchange of visits with other
golfing countries, notably South Africa and
California.
* * :|:
“Carnoustie”: Many British golf clubs are
seriously concerned at the awful condition
to which their fairways are reduced in
winter-time by mug golfers who scatter the
wet and sloppy turf to the four winds of
Heaven, which do not blow it back again.
Divot-taking is not objected to, since a divot
can be replaced, but when the ground is
very soft only an ugly hole remains. Many
of the clubs are now recommending—some
are insisting-—that in friendly games balls
in a bad lie be teed up again to avoid
damage. It is against all the principles of
golf, but is obviously the lesser of two evils.
Car and Cycle
“Spanner”: The fifth Australian Grand
Prix, run on the usual four-cornered road
course on Phillip Island, was exciting from
the start —too much so in one case. A.
Edwards, in a front-wheel drive Alvis,
skidded and hit a spectator, cutting a leg clean
off. The car w r as damaged and Edwards sus-
BEFORE HE TOOK THE WATER JUMP.
Twenty-five years ago Sydney was still considering whether it
would be better to have a harbor bridge or a tunnel.
Norman Lindsay then offered this cartoon on the subject.
tained injuries to his ribs. Eight of the
other 18 cars developed mechanical troubles
before the 203 J-mile course was finished.
Tne winner was the scratch man, W. Thomp-
son (N.S.W.), who drove a super-charged
Bugatti. He averaged 77 m.p.h. and his
fastest circuit was covered at 84 m.p.h.
G. Disha, in a Salmson, who had 16min.
start, was second. C. Junker, last year’s
winner, who had a 4min. handicap, filled
fifth place in a Bugatti eight.
* * * *
“Differential”: An interesting experiment
was lately carried out with the engine from
a Franklin car, an American make of long
standing, which has consistently stuck to
air-cooling as opposed to the water method
almost universal in the motor-car world.
The car was driven on to a flying field, and
the engine lifted out and installed in an
aeroplane. Tlie subsequent flight was com-
pletely successful. To show that climatic
conditions had little to do with the engine’s
success, experiments have lately been made
in the hottest portions of America. In a
run across Death Valley, in Western Cali-
fornia, one of the hottest places in the world,
the car came through without overheating
or other mishap. An effective air-cooled
engine would be a _ godsend to out-back
motorists in Australia, who often find it
difficult to get a supply of clean water for
their radiators.
* * * *
“Manana”: When Sydney supplements its
bridge with a tunnel under the harbor in
days to come, a traffic device now in use to
speed up motorists in the big tunnel under
the Hudson connecting New York and New
Jersey will come in handy. Every week-end
about 150,000 motor-cars use the twin tubes,
and to avoid congestion each car has to
keep a fixed speed. An endless travelling
chain carrying electric lights 75ft. apart
travels at 30 m.p.h. Drivers on entering
the tunnel must fall in alongside one of
the lights and keep beside it until leaving.
“0.H.V.”: Latest of the Sydney dirt-track
riders to catch the eye of the Wembley
Speedway heads is Lionel Van Praag, who
in recent seasons has climbed into the front
rank, having an unbeaten record in match
events. Latterly he has ridden mostly
against Ernie Evans, the Vic. speedster,
whom he has beaten at Wentworth Park on
many occasions. A’an Praag lias a six
months’ contract at Wembley and will repre-
sent Australia in Test matches.
“Kick Starter”: England has just been
considering the largest and most elaborate
motor-cycle that the world has yet seen.
Made by a famous English small-car firm, it
will be on the market during the coming
season, and embodies many unorthodox fea-
tures. The engine is a four-cylinder unit,
and differs very little in essentials from that
of the car turned out by the firm which
is putting the cycle on the market, except
that its cylinder capacity of 800 metres is
slightly greater. It is water-cooled, the
radiator being in two sections, one on each
side of the machine. The gear-box gives
three forward speeds and reverse. The drive
is through a universal joint and tail-shaft
to the rear wheel. This is of the dual
type, the two wheels being set just far
enough apart to provide a clearance between
them for the tail-shaft. A motor-car battery
is carried and a self-starter is fitted. Sus-
tained speed and good road-liolding capacity
arc claimed for the queer contraption, while
running costs are much lower than those
for a car.
Miscellaneous
“Target”: Australia has never had a
more consistent marksman than P. A. Pavcy,
of Caulfield. In 18 months or so he has
won four King’s Prizes: in Queensland and
Victoria in 1930, in N. S. Wales last year,
and now in his own State again—with an
aggregate of 337, the possible being 350.
He is still only 30.
“Mat” : In .spite of its great age in that
country, bowls in Britain shows no signs
of decrepitude. In England alone there are
1261 clubs affiliated with the English Bowl-
ing Association, and this does not include
many minor organi-
sations and the pro-
fessional bowls ele-
ment, a very strong
one in the North of
England. This year’s
international series
will begin in Glasgow
in July, and the fol-
lowing month a
British team will
leave for Australia
and Maoriland under
the banner of the In-
ternational Bowling
Board. That body,
by the way, is again
in the wars for de-
clining to accept the
affiliation of Ameri-
can bowling organi-
sations, and, to barb
the envenomed shaft,
has decided to change
its name to the Im-
perial B. 8.-—which
is tantamount to
hanging out the sign
“No Yanks need
apply.”
* *
“Jigger”; Time
and again the spec-
ialising in certain
strokes by profes-
sional billiard-players
has compelled altera-
tions in the rules to
avoid monotony,
while just as often
the players have
evolved new methods
of scoring which are,
in their turn, as
monotonous as those
they have superseded.
When Clark McCon-
aehy recently put up
his world’s record of
297 nursery cannons
(under revised rules)
an immediate move
was made in the
direction of limiting runs of the _ kind.
The question is where limitation is going to
stop. The old spot stroke was barred long
ago. Then the push cannon beloved of John
Roberts went into limbo. Later still the
ban fell on the unlimited employment of
the red loser, exploited by George Gray.
Lastly, direct cannons were limited to 25
in number, the player having to resort to
a stroke off the cushion to carry on. Yet
still the great breaks go on.
:J« ❖ ’fi
“Old Q.”: Australian followers of the
Rugby Union will this year see something
in the nature of a revolution when the All
Blacks come over. The side will play the
3-2-3 scrum, which every other Rugby-
playing country in the world has employed
for years, and there will be no wing forward.
This last is one of Maoriland’s unique fauna,
though N.S.W. for a time adopted the M.L.
monstrosity, the last specimen in captivity
having vanished somewhere about 1900. For
many years the wing forward has been one
of the handicaps to M.L. football and the
cause of more bad feeling than any other way
of attempting to beat the referee. Further-
more. the w'ing forward probably cost the
All Blacks, first and last, more points in the
way of free kicks than he ever earned by
virtue of his position.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland sailing men have
revived the controversy -with their N.S.W.
cobbers over the decision of the latter to
adhete to the “all-iri” system of entering
for the 18-footer championship. The Queens-
landers prefer to race two or three picked
boats against an equal number of adversaries,
whereas the Ma Staters put their whole
fleet of 27 in the water. Last year, when
Queensland was represented by one boat,
Marjorie; she had to hustle her way through
the entire armada, and had as much chance
of winning as a sprinter would have in
doing evens for the hundred down George-
street at lunch-time.


m
HfM
ftHK
\Wt
‘III
W'u
h
m
v^:
'
m
m
mm
$
as
v-Ss
4 N 4v>
m
i
*>v
I!
N v* %
Y / '/<,
■'X'S's
SIZ/r..' '.
S '
fffir
i%£s?A\
m?/&-
m
■
'
t r
<*•>
c *o
%
CO,
<4
(S
SCo
' L 4ND
the magnet of
men’s hopes the
pot at the foot of the
rainbow standard
for the measure of
values since the
earliest days of
civilisation,
. El Dorado .
IK f.OLII
IT tells you the GOLD
LABEL on a King George
IV. bottle—that within you can
hope to find the most precious of
spirits—a whisky of such quality,
of such rarity in blend and flavor
that your search for the superfine
ends when you take off the cap.
HJSSC GEURGli IV.
««i.n label
Stip^fuM
SCOTCH WHISKY


Blue north
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : In 1576 John Fordyce,
leaving his extravagant and discon-
tented wife Euphemia, sails from Fre-
mantle for the Blue North in search
of pearls and freedom. Getting divers,
including Nguri, from the Gascoyne
River tribe, he reaches Cossack. John
icins the hero-worship of Sophie, Mu
Gannet’s little slavey. Bella, the hand-
some barmaid of Mark's pub, becomes
infatuated with him ; they spend the
night together. Meeting again before
he sails he is casual, but she restrains
her passion only because Baia Bud-
son, a brutal pearler whose woman she
is, is present. Fordyce’s divers make
a good beginning; he is fishing a bank
when he sees Budson kill a female
diver. Captain Mac Koo tells him to
forget it. Roberts, an audacious
Yankee, has taken possession of the
Lacepede Islands. John brings Mr.
Geddes, a guano merchant, to the
mainland to see the Government Resi-
dent, at Roebourne, who swears Geddes
in as special constable. Blaming the
girl for Fordyce's neglect of her, Bella,
by insidious suggestion, gets Ma Gan-
net to sell Sophie to Baia. Learning
Fordyce is taking Sophie away, Bud-
son, snatching a stockwhip, strides off
to the Sprite, stranded by low tide.
Sophie frantically implores Fordyce
not to fight with him. Agreeing
reluctantly, John goes on deck with
his gun.
CHAPTER XIV. ( Continued.)
THE sight of Budson, redfaced and
furious, striding across the mud as
though he owned the world, filled John
with rage. In his ears echoed the pitiful
cries of Sophie, on his hands still burned
the prayer of her fevered grasp.
“I see you, Fordyce,” bellowed Budson,
staring up at John carefully picking his
way on the sloping deck. “I hear you are
making off with my girl. I’ll teach you to
leave my goods alone!”
His hand crept to his hip, but John was
too quick for him. The gun was on the
rail and Budson covered before he could
take another step.
“Two can play at that, Budson,” retorted
John. “I’ll shoot if you come an inch nearer.
We’ll postpone our meeting till later—for
I do not mean to deny myself the pleasure
of thrashing you. But right about turn
now, and go back to the pub and tell every-
one what a fine fellow you are—though
they won’t believe you. Go on, they’re
waiting to welcome you!”
John thought Budson must be on the
verge of apoplexy, so fiery his face turned
in the deep shadow of his Mt.
Bitterly John longed to demand payment
of a little of his account with Sophie. The
sight of the water slowly trickling over the
sand sent sudden inspiration.
“Stop blaspheming!” he ordered. “On
second thoughts you need not go back yet.
There won’t be enough water to take us
out for another three hours, and I have a
sudden fancy for your company. You can
talk to me for a little —but take that re-
volver out of your pocket first. Take it
out, you hound!”
Reluctantly Budson drew forth the
weapon, made a sudden feint and fired
wildly. The bullet sped harmlessly in the
rigging.
“Chuck it away—you’re a dead man,”
yelled John furiously. “And the whip after
it. That’s right. Now I’ll have much plea-
sure in telling you what I really think of
your conduct. There is ample time, for
you can stay where you are for the next
couple of hours.”
The blood ebbed from Baia’s face. How
the sight delighted John Fordyce! Captain
Mac Koo had told him why the bar had
roared with laughter when he had offered
to fight Budson. The man, like many an-
other bully, was white-livered.
The ordeal John proposed for him now
would hardly appear pleasing to a coward.
John hoped he might experience something
of the horror and fear to which he had
subjected Sophie. And the shame! Baia
was conceited; what a spectacle he pre-
sented to the watchers on shore, their
numbers already augmented, their voices
carrying to the schooner in gusts of laugh-
ter and an occasional ribald shout. Baia
Budson standing on the mud at the point
of another man’s gun was a sight too good
to miss!
The trickles grew and met and joined
until a shining film covered the bare sands.
Water crept up to the top of Baia’s boots,
up to his calves, up to his knees, lapped on
the sides of the schooner and rushed swiftly
up the channel on the offshore side.
Dinghies righted themselves behind their
ships, the larger vessels lifted slightly. With
the tide making eddies behind his legs,
Baia cursed John, in the same breath im-
ploring him to let him escape.
“Not I!” said John. “You must feel hot,
standing out there. You can swim for it
by-and-bye.”
John himself was heartily sick of standing
with gun cocked, the sun beating down on
his head. He called to Babbet to bring a
hat, and learnt that Sophie, worn out by
fear, had been given a sleeping draught
from the medicine-chest. As the minutes
dragged he longed to abandon his cramped
position, yet felt he could not delegate his
job to other hands—moreover, Baia was
reacting wonderfully! He was scared stiff.
In rushed the water, swiftly at last, up
towards the mangroves and the landing.
Beneath his feet John felt the Sprite tremor,
answering, so it seemed to him, the call
of the sea. Soon, he knew, Baia’s feet
would be swept from beneath him.
“For God’s sake, Fordyce,” Budson
pleaded brokenly at last, “let me go. The
sharks always come up with the tide!”
“I know they do,” called John affably.
“I’ve been looking out for one for you. I like
my guests to feel quite at home when they
come to visit me! But there’s one thing
I want to know—what made you think of
Sophie?”
“Damn you, Fordyce! I don’t know;
I’ve forgotten.”
“Well, remember, then.”
“I can’t. I was drunk. Oh, I think,
Bella. Now, I remember! You, of course!”
He grinned, despite the sickly pallor of his
face. A devilish grin to John. “Bella told
me to look out or you’d beat me to it.”
John’s revenge tasted suddenly bitter in
his mouth. He straightened his cramped
arms and put the gun aside.
“You can go, Budson; but remember
that what Bella told you was a foul lie.
And whatever I do, I don’t descend to
robbing the nursery—nor do I murder
gins.”
Budson was already almost out of hear-
ing, ploughing through the water. John
looked towards the open sea, and his eyes
fell on two black triangles moving up with
the tide.
“Look round, Baia, look behind you!”
he shouted.
Budson turned, and across in the channel
he saw the sharks’ fins sticking up. He
gave a yell of terror and splashed forward
on his face into the water, so eager was
he to get out.
John laughed and went down to the
cabin, whilst on shore a drenched and furi-
ous Budson strode through the mocking
crowd.
Sophie lay like a waxen figure in the
shadow of the bunk. Her first awakening
sensation was the lift of the Sprite to the
sea, the swish of the running waves. For
one heavenly second she fancied she lay in
her own bunk on the Mary Lee. She
opened her eyes expecting to see Peter
poring over his charts. But the head which
should have been grey showed dark against
the blue circle of a porthole, the eyes which
turned to greet her were not Peter’s, but
the lively laughing eyes of Mr. Fordyce.
CHAPTER XV.
Wherein John Fordyce finds a new
pearling-ground, and Sophie meets an
old friend.
Only three ships lay anchored in the
cove at the big island when John Fordyce’s
Sea Sprite bore down upon the Lacepedes.
One of the freebooters had thought dis-
cretion the better part, and vanished over
the waste of the Indian Ocean. Mr. Geddes
served his summonses forthwith, papers
greeted with derision by the American
Roberts, but eyed askance by the French
master of the brig, who evidently was of
no mind to become embroiled in an inter-
national squabble. There followed a sharp
passage betwen the French skipper and
Roberts, wherein the former declared he
had been chartered under false pretences
and would most assuredly obey the sum-
mons. The American walked off shrugging
his shoulders and vowing they would see
what they would see —his documents were
in perfect order and the more fools they!
As for the captain of the British vessel, he
received his in stolid silence, saying neither
yea nor nay; but when dawn stole across
the sea he, too, had vanished. “And with
damn near a thousand tons of the stuff!”
said Geddes bitterly, when he thanked John
Fordyce for the assistance he had rendered,
and bade him adieu.
As the Frenchman cleared away to Cos-
sack, leaving Mr. Geddes’s schooner Emily
in undisputed possession- of the guano-
grounds, the Sprite steered a course for the
north, all reefs shaken out and a good stiff
breeze behind her.
John was heading for King Sound, whose
pearling banks were as yet unexplored. A
few ships had dared to round Swan Point,
to brave the rushing tides, the uncharted
reefs, the hostile blacks; but very few.
Sophie, who could tell John the minutest
details about the Western Grounds, had
never sailed northwards up the coast. John
felt that even Wilson should thrill to the
excitement of unknown seas; but all Wilson
did was to study intently what charts they
possessed, charts many of them plotted by
explorers a hundred years before, and then
say he thought he had better get up aloft
and keep a sharp lookout.
Sophie’s presence, except for the partition
in the cabin and her unobtrusive, silent
appearance at meals, made small difference
to life on board. John warned everyone
to take no notice of her in those first days.
Gradually the fog of fear and shame dis-
persed, her face grew less pinched, she
started less at noises. Often she lay in the
shade of the mainsail, playing with the cat,
sometimes smiling at Babbet’s jokes. The
old cook produced many a special dish, and
whenever he could snatch a moment from
the galley told her stories of his own
children in the vague world of “down at the
Port.”
“Babbet,” she said suddenly one day,
“would you let your girl play with me?”
“Of course I would, Missie, and very
pleased, you may be sure,” he answered
promptly, a reply which, had he but known,
did more to comfort Sophie for the hurt of
Ma’s insults than any other assurance
offered her. His old eyes scanned her
half-averted face. His girl indeed—why,
he’d be proud! Quality she was; he hadn’t
a doubt of that.* He’d not lived among
gentry for nothing. He’d wager a lot she
was no more old Gannet’s daughter than
she was Ma’s.
On the forward deck the binghis chat-
tered and sang. They seemed to have for-
gotten their dead comrade, or possibly
the sight which Budson had presented,
fuming in vain at the point of their master’s
gun, had appeased both fear and anger.
They never spoke of the dead man—he had
gone away; it would be unlucky in the
extreme to mention his death. Sophie they
took to their hearts. She spent hours with
them, fishing when no breeze ruffled the
water and the Sprite lolled indolently in
the trough of the sea, or learning their lan-
guage amid gusts of laughter when the
schooner ripped along with the spume flying
from her bows. Up on the forward deck
among the naked brown men, whose child-
like minds held no knowledge of. the evil
which had befallen her, the young girl
found a happiness such as she had not
known for many months. Once or twice
at night she awakened screaming from her
dreams, but the sound of Mr. Fordyce’s
steady voice penetrating the thin walls of
the partition stilled her pounding heart
until she fell asleep again, lulled by the
blessed swish of the sea.
A two-days’ calm delayed the passage
north; John Fordyce paced the decks in
impatience, whilst Wilson gloomily fore-
told disaster. John had heard so much of
the terrific tides in King Sound that he had
planned to make Swan Point at neaps ; but,
what with one delay and another, here they
were only just on top springs! At last
a bank of clouds piled in the clear sky, and
before long the Sea Sprite was racing
towards her goal, her master crowding on
every inch of canvas to catch the rising
wind.
A point of land loomed ahead. Wilson
instantly climbed aloft, though John felt
safe enough. The charts which so far had
stood him in good stead showed no
obstacles—he had no doubt they would
round the point to a snug anchorage.
Suddenly Wilson’s voice called down on
a sharp note of anxiety.
“Keep her away! Keep her away—
there’s a long reef running out from the
point. The sea’s breaking on it!”
“That’s strange,” thought John, and ran
below to study the chart once more. There
was no reef marked. “Deep water,” read
John, and close inshore at that. So back
he went on deck and scrambled up to join
the mate. There could be no doubt of the
truth of Wilson’s observation. All too
plainly he distinguished heavy seas breaking
ahead in an ominous line.
“Come down and look again,” said John.
Wilson followed him below 7 ; as they went
John called to the helmsman to ease away
a point. The mate shook his head over
the chart. Two worried men returned to
the deck, and Sophie crept up behind them.
By this time the schooner was tearing
through the water, straight for the reef as
though drawn by a mighty magnet. John
and Wilson felt powerless. A hand slipped
into John’s and a little voice said: “I’ve
heard Peter talk of the tide-rips up here.”
“That’s it!” cried John. “I might have
guessed. What” •
In that instant it was upon them; the
vessel caught in the grip of the current as
if it were a straw upon the water. Round
and round she spun, white foam boiling,
roaring, hissing in a witches’ cauldron. The
helmsman clung impotently to a useless
wheel; the others grasped whatever support
they could find, as, sick and giddy, they
watched jagged rocks leap up among the
waves. Almost on top of the wicked black
fangs the vessel was swirled away; the
tossing and turning ceased; John, thinking
the danger past, looked dizzily up to behold
land tearing towards them. In a second or
two the Sea Sprite must be ground to
powder! He could do nothing. He set his
teeth and waited.
Swan Point flashed past. It lay behind
them; they rode smoothly upon the waters
of a beautiful bay!
John drew a deep breath. “Well, of all
the luck!” he thought; then called calmly
for a lead-line, and finding he got 50
fathoms, bade Wilson let go the anchor.
Beyond the elbow of land the incoming
tide rushed with the roar of a cataract.
They had made the point at the very
moment of the turn, been caught in a battle
of the tides. The mighty rush of waters,
twice a day sweeping up the gulfs and inlets
of the northern coast, eddied past shoals
and rocks so violently as to carry un-
scathed ships borne on their stream. But
that John was not to discover for some
time. Their escape appeared to him
miraculous. He glanced round for Sophie.
The girl was hanging over the side,
staring back at the course they had fol-
lowed.
“Sophie,” he called, thinking she might
feel faint.
She turned a flushed face. The smile he
remembered flashed up at him, lighting her
thin face with swift, appealing vivacity;
her eyes sparkled.
“Oh, Mr. Fordyce, that was wonderful!”
She had not, then, even been afraid,
whereas he, to say the least of it, had felt
decidedly uncomfortable!
“Did you think we should be wrecked?”
he asked curiously.
“For a minute,” she answered. “But I
loved being spun along so fast.”
The man gave a little laugh. A glow of
pleasure at her mettle warmed him. Sophie
was no coward; it pleased him to feel he
had saved such a tempered blade from the
grasp of a poltroon. Soon the last spots
of rust would be polished off and a shining
sword confront the world; Euphemia, now,
would have been fainting in bed for a week
after a similar encounter with the elements.
So would most women, he supposed—not
many would smile like that child in the
face of danger.
Babbet appeared wiping the sweat from
his face.
“I bin make a cup o’ tea. I reckon yer
need it, sir, if not something with a bit
more kick.”
“Come along Sophie,” said John. “Babbet
is a sensible fellow.” And he placed an
arm round her shoulders as they walked
together towards the companion-way.
Days sped uneventfully past, uneventfully
except for the constant excitement of sail-
ing on wayward tidal seas, the thrill of
searching for good banks, the never-failing
hope that each shell opened in the cool
evenings might contain a gem. Sophie
instituted herself shellopener, and John,
tired after a long day fighting with the tides
beneath a gruelling sun, was glad enough
to lie back in his hammock under the
awning, a pipe in his mouth, and watch her
prise open the day’s take whilst he yarned
to Wilson. He smiled inwardly sometimes,
watching her there in a white dress clumsily
fashioned from the bolt of stuff he had
bought, her soft brown hair caught back
with a band of silk. How his wife would
have sneered at such garments with neither
cut nor style! But Sophie, he thought
whimsically, with her long bare feet—a true
sailor in that—and her bare arms, might
well be the incarnation of his ship, a sprite
of the sea.
Freedom from fear and good meals com-
pounded by the ingenious Babbet soon
showed in a touch of color in the girl’s
cheeks, a more frequent flash of her smile,
a gradual rounding of neck and arms. Her
childish delight at finding the tiniest pearl,
her disgust at a blank day, amused him
mightily. He would watch her stacking up
the shell neatly for one of the crew to
remove to the hold, polishing her knife,
clearing up the slimy grey mess of oysters.
How Euphemia would have shuddered away
from such things! He could not imagine
her soiling her hands with such a task
for even her husband, though she would
be the first woman ready to cry for the
spoils!
For a week or two they cruised along
the western shores of the Sound. Not a sail
showed up; thin spirals of smoke on shore
alone denoted the presence of natives. John
often studied the low rocky coast through
his glasses. He saw little white beaches,
and caught sight of palms growing behind
the dunes, but as yet felt no inclination to
land. He had water in plenty; shell-fever
had him in its grip. Daily the boys im-
proved. The neap tides gave them shallower
water, and shells in plenty tumbled into
the dinghies, though nightly Sophie
grumbled that they should find nothing
better than baroque and a few small pearls.
He bade her keep the seeds to make a
necklace. She paled and shook her head.
They were all his; she would not take


ESTABLISHED 1S34.
The Commercial
Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria, Ltd.)
r JTIE BANK offers customers very complete facilities
for the transaction of Australasian or Overseas
Banking business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest
way of taking money on a journey. It establishes Com-
mercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates and
collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes
Transfers by mail or telegraph. It transacts all classes
of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The manager of any branch will gladly explain these
facilities and place at customers’ disposal the information
on current trading and financial conditions which the
Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £12,000,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID UP .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL . 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
George Judah Cohen (Chairman); Hon. James Ashton, M.L.C.;
Major-General the Hon. James William Macarthur Onslow, V.D.,
M.L.C.; Owen Esmond Friend; Edward Ritchie Knox.
General Manager: J. R. Dryhurst.
Head Office: 343 George Street, Sydney.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclays Bank.
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
SAFE DEPOSIT AT HEAD OFFICE for care of Title Deeds.
Insurance Policies, Scrip, Bonds, Jewellery, Plate, etc. Not confined
to the Bank’s own customers. Rentals of Safes range from £1/5/-
per annum upwards. Inspection invited. Illustrated Booklet posted
free on request.
Cable Address: “ Thermostat Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
any; he was too good to her already. She
sat silent for the rest of that evening.
One morning, having hoisted their
dinghies aboard, they sailed off with the
tide to look for a new 7 bank. Cries from
the forward deck attracted John’s atten-
tion and he saw Nguri pointing towards a
scarcely-discernible sail.
Racing with tide and wind behind them,
they soon bore down on a big schooner
coming down the Sound. She hailed the
Sprite. By no means loath to see fresh
faces, John manoeuvred his vessel with
some difficulty into the lee of an island.
The schooner followed slowly, and within a
few seconds after both anchors had rattled
out she dropped a boat to bring her master
to the Sprite. To John’s surprise Captain
Mac Koo scrambled over the side.
“Well met, Johnnie Fordyce!” he
rumbled. “I thought I had this place to
tneself till yesterday. Now a crowd has
turned up, and being nearly out of water,
I’ve left ’em to it. Until a few months
back I was the only pearler to risk the
Sound; but as soon as one goes in the
others follow! Still, I have no cause for
complaint—there’s ample for all.”
“Where are you going now?”
“Down to Beagle Bay for water. Not a
drain to be had here, bad cess to it!”
“Have you looked?”
“For what sort of a fool do you take
Douglas Mac Koo? There is no more
chance of water on that benighted coast
than of finding the niggers running a pub!”
John grinned. “AVhat will you bet me?
I believe I could find some. I’ve not driven
cattle overland for nothing, Captain. I’d
have perished before now if I did not recog-
nise certain signs and portents. I bet you
a hogshead of Mark’s best I’ll discover
some!”
“Done! You will have sharper eyes than
the old hands if you do, young fellow!”
Forthwith they decided to sail back along
the coast to test John’s assumption that
fresh water could be got close to the sea.
But before the old pearler left for his ow 7 n
ship he winked at his host and said with a
broad smile: “What’s this scandal I hear
about you running off with Baia’s girl and
holding him up at the point of a gun? The
entire fleet is overcome with joy.”
Mac Koo’s sharp eyes noted a warmth of
color grow 7 beneath John’s tanned skin; but
Fordyce laughed carelessly, and retailed the
story. “Could I have done anything else?”
he demanded. “That swine of a man!”
“Well, have a care, me lad. I hear the
swine has sworn to get even. He may be
a coward, but he is a revengeful beast, too.
Where’s the girl, anyway? I take it you
scarcely expect the crowd to believe all that
highfalutin stuff you’ve just told me.
They all consider it a rare good joke on
Budson, and are over-anxious to see the
finish. Nothing so gratifying as a fight over
a woman!”
“Woman!” snorted John. “You’re as foul-
minded as the rest of them, Mac Koo!
Sophie,” he called dow 7 n the companion-
way, w 7 here she had vanished out of sight
at the approach of the other vessel.
“Sophie, come here and meet an old friend.”
But Sophie would not come until he
fetched her, and then only after he had
expressed a definite wish.
“If you want me to, Mr. Fordyce,” she
said, but shrank timidly behind him as they
reached the deck.
The meeting was not a success; John
realised that, though seemingly the girl
was forgetting the past, any encounter with
a person connected in her mind w r ith Cos-
sack brought back the fear and shame he
longed so much to banish. But she bright-
ened in her childish way at thought of the
water-hunt, begging that she be allowed to
come.
“I’d hardly have known her, Handsome
Jack,” said Captain Mac Koo, negotiating
the rope ladder with a dignity w ? hich he
brought to the most unlikely feats. “She’s
blossoming out. And that about being a
woman is not so far w 7 rong either! She’ll
be a fine wench soon.”
“Get out with you!” retorted John, re-
garding Sophie at the same time with some-
thing of an artist’s pride, for had not he,
by his rash action, given her a chance to
blossom? A peaky, miserable child creep-
ing unhappily over the hills in Cossack—
a sun-kissed nymph daily growing taller on
the decks of the dancing Sprite!
Watching Sophie on the morrow, as she
trailed a hand in the wake of the dinghy
speeding towards the shores of Cygnet Bay,
John buried the last doubt of the wisdom
of that off-hand rescue. She would forger,
if they went on being kind to her; she
could be happy, in spite of the past. Her
face glowed as she tossed the water in the
air or caught at floating seaweed. She
laughed the feverish energy of the boys
bending to the oars in their anxiety to
outstrip Captain Mac Koo’s divers. She
sprang into the water and waded ashore
with the abandon of unspoiled, trusting
youth.
A crescent of silver sand stretched away
to a rocky point. Above low sandhills
waved the pointed leaves of pandanus-
palms, the incoming tide curled on the
beach in lacy ruffles of foam, and, beyond,
the bay lay smooth and brilliant, a sjun-
phony of jade and azure.
In a cup behind the dunes, beneath
branching stems of palms, the. boys were
set to dig for water. John and Mac Koo
mopped their brows, cursing the heat and
the flies which sprang from nowhere; but
bophie, climbing one of the hillocks, lay on
a morsel of sand shaded by a tuft of grass,
with a cool breeze fanning her cheeks. John
shouted to her to be careful, there might
be hostile blacks about for all they knew.
“I’ll be your lookout,” she called back.
From her point of vantage she. stared
down into the hollow where they were at
work. Over the group of men—the dozen
naked blacks, John so big and brown in
blue shirt and wide felt hat, Mr. Wilson
sombre as ever, and fat old Captain Mac-
Ivoo with his dignified air—her eyes passed
to the dark, hard foliage of palms and on
to low scrub-covered land behind. Not a
living thing stirred, not a breath of smoke,
not a bird in the sky. An empty country
spread out beneath a burning sun! Sophie
twisted to look out to sea. Ah, that was
better! So graceful, so white and trim
gleamed the Sprite far out in the bay;
beyond lay the second schooner; beyond
again, red-rock islands dotted about like
giant turtles asleep on the water.
A shout went up from the natives. They
had reached water. Two of them went
racing back to the dinghy and returned with
two empty cases and a couple of casks.
Sophie left her hillock to watch them knock
the bottoms from the wooden boxes and
screw them down into the holes, working
out the sand from the insides. As fast as
they worked water poured in. In a few
seconds two little wells, clear and fresh,
sparkled beneath the palms. The boys set
about filling up the casks.
Captain Mac Koo solemnly filled his hat
and drank to John.
“You win, Mr. Fordyce,” he bowed cere-
moniously. “I drink to the first man to find
water on the shores of King Sound,
though it fills me with regret to have to
drink such a toast in such a liquor. Here’s
to you!”
Sophie, after drinking some of the cool
water, explored the grove of palms, led
away by the twinkle of yellow hibiscus
blooms. She had gathered an armful of
the flowers when she hurt her toes on some
hard surface, and, bending down to rub
them, found a rusty knife. She picked it
up and went with it to John.
He turned it over in surprise. “See
here, Captain,” said he to Mac Koo. “Will
you bet I’m the first to find water, after
all? Perhaps this belonged to some of the
old navigators.” He put the relic in his
pocket, and later gave it to Sophie, who
nailed it up in the cabin of the Sprite.
But she could never know it had once
belonged to William Dampier, and that two
centuries earlier that wily buccaneer had
sat upon the self-same dune which she had
climbed, and had written the story of it in
the diary which later was to bring him
fame, whilst out on the bay rode the good
ship Cygnet.
Captain Mac Koo and John set to work
ferrying casks of water, but had only half-
done when the sun set. Nguri dived once or
twice at his master’s direction, and so good
were samples of bottom he fetched up that
the two men decided to finish watering their
vessels on the morrow and then try for
shell. But the first rays of the sun lit a
gleam of sails on the horizon, and they
knew that before long the ships Mac Koo
had left would be on their tracks. They
left their dinghies astern and waited for the
newcomers.
Like birds the vessels swam down on
them, anchoring all round and furling sails.
Owners came off immediately to inquire
what the bank was like. John and Mac Koo
were non-committal, but the former in-
quired after their w T ater supplies, and was
informed most of the tanks were very low.
Forthwith he told them of the wells, sug-
gesting they water together and start diving
the following day, for he was in no mind
to see others skinning the banks before
him. The pearlers agreed amicably and
went ashore with their crews; and after
supper Captain Mac Koo entertained the
company.
A few sly hints fell to John’s lot, for one
or two of the men he had known years
before-, but no outright mention was made
of the passenger aboard the Sea Sprite. His
manner scarcely invited investigations. Nor
in the days which followed did any of the
pearlers catch so much as the flutter of a
skirt to pique their curiosity. One or two
suggested there might be a mistake; but
as Handsome Jack neither affirmed nor
denied a single insinuation, the matter soon
lost its spice.
Sophie languished in the cabin of the
Sprite, only venturing on deck after dark,
and then fleeing below at the sound of
dipping oars as some dinghy slipped past.
In vain were John’s remonstrances; his
heart ached to see her suffocating below, to
watch her free grace of movement change
to nervous jerks, the color in her cheeks
fade out. So, although the bank was yield-
ing well, his old desire returned to venture
where no man had sailed before. The girl
could not face strangers yet, but in a few
months’ time, when the monsoon season
drew’ near, they would be obliged to
sail south, and she must somehow 7 be pre-
pared to face the world.
Captain Mac Koo, sharing John’s confi-
dence, much regretted his decision, but
commended the idea.
“Give the young person a chance to get
over the affair,” he said. “But have an eye
to where you sail.” The captain winked
one eye with tremendous deliberation, and
John, although he pretended not to see,
felt his ears tingle.
{To be continued next week.)


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life.
Sydney has been feeling like tlie stuuio
hand in Hollywood who, when they were
screening a picture of Godiva, said he d wait
around for the procession, he hadn’t seen a
horse for a long time. So everybody turned
out to the Bridge pageant, and there were
the loveliest horses drawing the floats. *oi
a float has nothing to do with the water
under the Bridge—it is “a low-bodied truck
or wheeled platform used in pageants
according to the dictionary—and Clydesdales,
furry about the hooves and patient about
the face, positively pranced past the hun-
dreds of thousands along the route under a
sky all after-rain blue. There were life-
saving girls escorting one float; but Sydney
always has its lifesavers, and it must be
admitted that historic old boys like Cook and
phillip and Macquarie raised a more pro-
longed cheer. Cook stood before his
Endeavor, while in the middle of the float a
mixed company of marines ana abos.—the
latter with spears and shields —looked brave
and fierce. A gigantic Phillip (he was several-
times life-size) overtopped the little Sinus
which he held in his hands, and he also
was entirely surrounded by pioneers, marines
and abos.
The floats wore gorgeous and glittering
aprons—pieces falling from the sides almost
to the ground, so that there was no indecent
display of wheels, and the fact that in
everyday life the floats carry hides _ and
skins and coal and time-payment furniture
was carefully hidden. The aprons were
mostly designed in panels, very bold ami
decorative. Abo. shields and incidents mojir
early history were greatly in favor. me
black swan on the Federation float swam
into view graceful and imaginative. But
altogether this item was a very vivid bit
of color. On it all the States found a place,
and no fewer than 30 girls took part in the
tableau. Our starry emblem was girt about
a group of sunny-haired young Graces, the
shields representing the States were borne
by maids in flowing white, and six white-
ciad girls, their feet in a sea of gold, were
"•rouped together, each wearing a blue sash
blazoning the name of the State she repre-
sented. Here, of course, glittered a rising
sun, and the four steeds that drew this load
of charm went stirringly caparisoned in
cloths representing Australia’s flag. And
this Letter dares swear not a man or woman
born in this kindly, generous land, or sharing
its benefits by adoption, but felt his heait
beat more quickly, felt his chin lift more
pridefully, to that passing.
There were bands everywhere. The on-
looker found himself slow-stepping, quick-
marching and swinging along to the tide ot
music, which started as the gleaming white
and silver youngster, the drum-manor of the
Y.A.L. band, twirled his silver baton and
stepped out, solemn with the weight of his
eight years, at the head of the procession.
After that every now and again came another
band, the Pipers among them, kilted and
sporranned and all, ribbons flying from bag--
pipes, medals flashing in the sun.
This Letter wishes it could tell you every
bit of it. There were the streets, gay with
color and movement, washed with sunshine, a
little drunk with music and excitement.
Macquarie-street and Queen’s-square, where
for days before those who could command
views liad been selling seats for 10s. each, were
seething. Here the procession massed; here
from the doors of Burdckin House stepped
amazing people of the pageant; and what
though you, who are behind the scenes, recog-
nise many of the costumes as part or
J.O.W.’s wardrobe, there are thousands of
happy people who don’t know the frocks and
suits, say, from “Show Boat,” but only see
the ladies and gentlemen of the period step-
ping into a Cobb and Co.’s coach for a
hazardous journey through bushranger
country.
Victory, too, came to the pageant. She
knelt, beautiful and forceful, in the A.l.h.
tableau. This was a terrifically applauded
float It held howitzers and tanks and field
guns, and its apron represented the seven
military divisions, and below glowed the 5-1
battalion colors. This float was drawn by
four horses in military style, postillion.
Elsewhere there were rearing dolphins ridden
by mermaids, there were huge pmk and
grey galalis, gigantic brolgas leading the
flight from the city to the flowery gardens
of the Northern suburbs over a sea 9f green.
There was the towering, rearing white horse
(made entirely of white Cape daisies) ridden
by a silver-armored and -visored St. George,
the green wave of Cronulla curling at his
heels, before him Botany Bay, into 'which
the George’s and Cook’s rivers flow. Mer-
maids frolicked in a surf of green, and blue
water-lilies, unheeding their neighbors, the
wild white horses of the Pacific. An im-
mense crown of golden. flowers, very be-
gemmed. high as a skyscraper, rose on the
Empire float; Lennox Bridge, the four-square
St .Tames, the Macquarie obelisk, the Uni-
versity—all trundled along spilling more color
into a morning already brimming with it.
Here, too, came the explorers and fossickers
set in an atmospheric bush scene.
The Bridge workmen swung by, heads up,
muscles of necks and a-ripple, and the
barriers were nearly carried away on the
wave of cheers. Lennie Gw T yther, the lad who
rode from Gippsland to see the Bridge opened,
was "Teeted with another roar; but he was
tired to death of it all, and sat undemon-
strative upon his pony. The tartan of the
girl pipers caught the sun, the drum-manor
a gallant little figure; and the passing of a
group of lads wearing the war medals ot
their soldier-dads caused a sigh to ripple up
through the cheers. V.C.’s walked, and the
great-grandfathers who fought in the Soudan,
and the grandfathers of the South African
wars and the Boxer rebellion.
Clarence-street and York-street, College
and Park streets were a josklurg, happy &ea
of humans; windows and balconies were
tiered with heads; the edges of flat roots
wore a fringe of them. Squinting up at the
human flies one youth said to another, lake
a look at the new window-boxes, Bill •
Sydney was out, the suburbs were 01 *t» tne
sun was out! Business was forgotten
exceDt bv a few enterprising fellows wno
minted money by hawking boxes and rough-
made seats at anything from a bob to an
a dollar.”
At the official enclosure for the opening,
along Bradfield Highway, great stands weie
packed with their tens of thousands. Here
came Sir Philip Game to hobnob with Ins
friend Premier .T. T. Lang. Here galloped
up the splendid-looking mounted polic—
There was a guard, very brave m red and
white; there was a naval guard, navy blue
and brass bound; Sir Philip wore Ins
Air Force uniform. The Governor-General &
arrival was surrounded by a dashing guard
Lancers, their red pennons fluttering in tne
light breeze. There were 20 trumpeteis
replete with fanfares ; there were hundreds ot
police; there was a broad blue ribbon waiting
for the gold scissors and the hand of Mi.
Laug. But quicker than the Premiei,
quicker than Authority, a horseman rode at
the ribbon with flashing sword, hacked it
asunder and declared the. Bridge open in
“the name of the people of New South Walesa
of common decency and decent politics. And
though Mr. Lang stepped down later and
cut the ribbon, whose ragged ends had been
tied by officialdom, it was, as the French
say, the mustard after the mutton or as a
small girl chirruped, Oh, that s like when
I have a birthday and blow out the candles
around the cake, and mother lights them up
again so that baby can blow them out.
Of course, the Quixote was a New
Guardsman and an Irishman. He is Captain
de Groot, formerly of the Hussars; he served
right though the Great War, has an inti-
mate knowledge of antiques and pictures and
runs an antique business m Double Bay.
The official dais was banked with flowering
plants and palms, and the Union Jack and
the Australian flags fluttered fro “
corner. The Roland Kitsons were piobably
the best-dressed couple on any stand, bhe s
a most attractive creature, tall and grace
ful, and she wore green crepe dc Chine shaded
hv a droopv hat of the same coloring. He
was faultless in morning suit. Lady Isaacs s
sapphire-blue chiffons were trimmed with
squirrel; Lady Game’s frock was mjhoco-
late browns, and her small hat was a mixture
of felt and panne velvet. She sat next to Mr.
Lang and part of the tune shaded him with
her sunshade. This same kindly office was
performed by Town-ffall-orderly Carnck for
Mrs. Kitson. Mrs. Lang made one of hei
very rare public appearances and came to
this party; she wore navy with a touch ot
peach-pink georgette. The Mayoral Walders
were there, she m smart Royal blue, he
looking very hot in the gauds of his office.
Victoria’s Lieut.-Governor and Lady lrvme—
a green quill stabbing her navy hat—and
South Australia’s vice-regal Hore-Ruthvens,
she in flowered ninons; the Chief Justice
Streets, Captain and Mrs Feakes many
Consuls, the Kelso Kings; Miss Crowdy m
wine-colored marocain; the Mayoral Prim-
roses from North Sydney ; the Harry Budges,
the Lawrence Ennis couple and Dr Bradfield
and his wife were a few of the well-knowns
who were among the official group.
Up the sky the ’planes roared; and above
the crowd the Bridge towered, grey and aloot,
the Union Jack floating on one pylon, Aus-
tralia’s flag on the other.
A lyric could be written about the water
pageant. The Harbor, a tumble of blue
waters, had the sheen of satin, the iridescence
of iewels. Neptune’s daughters were appa-
rentlv flinging their diamonds, rubies,
emeralds and opals to the top of the waves in
sheer exuberance. The Harbor end of the
Domain was like some vast out-of-door
family circle packed tight. On Ivirn-
billi huge stands occupied lawns, spare
slices of land, and towered above the roofs
of flats. But, perhaps because most of the
dwellers in flats and houses on the water-
front ran morning-tea and cocktail Parties
on their verandahs and porches the stands
were not so full. Nielsens Look-out, a
wonderful perch outside the Zoo gates, and
Cremorne held their masses of sightseers, on
foot and iu cars; and as the procession ot
craft made its way under the Bridge, and
swept down to the Heads the sight was one
no other city in the world could stage at her
front door. , .
The little Captain Cook led the way, fol-
lowed by the great Maloja, heavily freighted
with human cargo, and decked with bunting.
After the Maloja came the Orford, then the
Nieuw Zeeland and the Manunda, the two
last gleaming white between the blue of sea
and skv Then followed in great line the
steamers in port. As the big ships passed,
fussy, bedizened small craft frolicked about
their feet. Speedboats raced ahead like a
scream of wind, leaving in their wake trails
of boiling foam. Sunbrowned men in skiffs
swept along on steady, glistening oars; tugs
crowded with passengers sounded ear-split-
ting sirens. Up the skyways rushed the
’planes, glittered against the blue like fabu-
lous flving-fish, then swooped as though they
would brush the liners with their wings.
Kingsford Smith flew passengers over the
Bridge; the yachts, white-sailed and trim of
line looked the aristocrats of the .water
babies, Frank Albert’s one of the most
beautiful of all. Fort Denison was more toy-
like than ever; on this day it was impos-
sible to think it had once been a place ot
fear Cremorne sprawled lazily m the
water; Bradley’s Head turned glossy, new-
washed leaves to the sun. The ferries, the
Cinderellas of day, looked merely, useful.
But their hour came with the night When
the moon was high they slipped and curt-
seved over the glass-still floor of the Harbor
i/golden shoes! they slid like fireflies- about
the points, while searchlights sent out great
swords that swept and crossed one another
as though engaged in some ghostly fencing-
match Up in the air soared rockets and
balls of colored lights. Little golden pyro-
technic birds flew across the face of the stars
and brushed the star-dust from their wings
to the waters below. Motionless ships blazed
into light till they looked as though made
of crystal, and they might have been craft
in a Wagner opera. The masts of the Helen
B. Stirling were pointed spires of light.
Farm Cove was multi-colored and gay with
bobbing craft; and over tlie illuminated
Bridge the crowds walked from north to
south, from south to north.
This tramp, tramp, tramp continued until
midnight. Then the roadway and the line-
ways were cleared, and as the hour struck th
tollgates were opened for motor-cars.
waiting queue, in places five abreast, at t
time ran back nearly to the Town Hall. T
punts had stopped running; m despair, many
bad turned out of the queue and made the
long circuit of “the bridges” to reach homes
on the northern side.
There was a ribbon-cutting ceremony on
the North Side, too; the Mayor of North
Sydney attended to that. b«ext morning,
bright and early, his Worship was at a
Fellowship Breakfast at the Anglican
Church on the heights, and heard himselt
referred to as the only official person wli
had severed a ribbon on the previous day.
Sunday morning the regular train and
tram time-tables came into use, and Horn
a score of points on the North Shore trams
set off to cross the Bridge and set passenge s
down at Wynyard. But it is not cheap
travelling. From Mosman the journey costs
ninepence; by ferry you could be landed at
the Quay for 4d., and, until the ferry co. put
up its fares to pay for the steameis tm
would soon be out of use, 3d.
One of the titbits of Saturday was the
special train which was pulled out ot YY yn
yard to cross the bridge first after the open-
ing. Half a sovereign was the fare, and
every seat had been booked; one rich uuc
from much handier than Fiji had taken a
dozen for his nephews and his nieces. At
the fare the passengers deserved the tiam
decorations. The journey out and back was
quite without incident— except for a. n ooa
soul who, not having a window seat, desired to
look out from a doorway. Leaving her ha*
on her seat she turned to her neighbor, a
stranger. “Would you mind keeping an ty
on my bag?” she said. “I know I cun trust
you. You don’t come from New South
Wales, do you?” she added artlessly.
There was splendor at the Lord Mayors
ball to celebrate the Bridge opening, ihe
Governor-General and no fewer than three
Governors with their ladies attended it. 1
Navv, the Army, the Church, the Judiciary
rubbed shoulders in the ballroom, where
about 3000 obtained foothold. The queue foi
presentation started in the corridor outside
the vestibule. This was banked in the
middle with palms and greenery, and the
queue paced on each side of it, as tho g
playing some new sort of round game, lne
candelabra blazed down, dresses gleamed,
jewels glittered; women wore bustles with
a self-conscious air not at all becoming to
the style, and bare backs with complete in-
difference. The lighting inside the ballroom
was kinder—it was softly golden. Little
golden bulbs ran around the walls like sun-
shine, ferny sprays swayed m delicate
fronds and trails across the ceiling,
pink and golden roses were caught in
the garland, and hanging baskets revolved
languidly., Up the pillars roses climbed, the
stage was bathed in twilight-blues and
mauves, and the dais wore. cosy chairs an
rugs, and was set about with sophisticated-
looking palms.
The Lud Mayor was all set up with robes
and chains and such, and Mrs. Walder, who
is small and dainty looking, wore silver-grey
satin, fitting to the knees, thence falling in
sculped folds to the floor. An unusual touch
was the lei of black velvet flowers, I own
Clerk Roy Bendy in his wig and belaced
robe was among the receivers; beside him
stood Mrs. Idendy, in cherry georgettes.
Everybody stood, first on one leg, then on
the other, and talked till trumpeters an-
nounced the vice-regals. Such a string ot
them; the little Governor-General very alert,
very piercing-eyed. His tall lady wore
sweeping grey laces and a discreet diamond
or two. Lady Irvine, from Victoria, came
with her Lieutenant-Governor, and added a
diamond tiara to black chiffons; Lady Hore-
Ruthven flashed in green and silver lame.
Sir Philip Game and Lady Game held court,
and her black chiffons were tethered by the
fashionable diamente shoulder straps Gift
and Captain Bracegirdle and Miss Crowdy,
in useful greys, wrnre in attendance.
The three tall handsome women of the
party were Mrs. Roland Kitson, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly and Mrs. Tom Rolin. Mrs. Kitson,
squired part of the night by the six-foot-odd
Oswald Cheeke, wore a sheath of gold lame
embossed with silver flowers; Mrs. Kelly s
black moire blazed with long lines of dia-
mente ; and Mrs. Rolin was pictorial m an
oyster satin frock, supple and clinging, and
a long petunia ostrich-feather fan. -Another
good-looker was Mrs. Florence in
sweeping parchment lace; Mrs. Reg. Staf-
ford, down from Cassilis for the celebrations,
was in white satin of Grecian line; in con-
trast, her friend Mrs. C. L. Jones was
Edwardian, and sported a bustle. -these
bustles occurred everywhere. Some of them
were real ring-dingers; others flapped like
meek little knockers. There were frocks of
the movie heroine, no-back make-up. Ihe
Chief Justice Streets greeted Justice James
(now quite well again) and Mrs. James;
Judge Coyle and Mrs. Coyle and Mrs. John
Barlow foregathered; the Dan Kellys, from
Kirribilli; Mrs. G. H. Rayner, with daughter
Joan Gifford; Mrs. Pat Levy, m green chif-
fons; the Kelso Kings, the Brigadier-General
Heritage couple, Mrs. E. G. Theodore, Mis.
Garnet^Malley and Valerie Purves were
among the jostlers and the Jostled. The
Lawrence Ennises and Dr. and Mrs. Brad-
field received many congratulations; Mis.
Harry Dransfield carried a black fan em-
bossed with a riot of flowers butter-
flies; Mrs. Harry Budge and Dean Talbots
wife wore black chiffons with grace. The
Justly Rawlings couple (she in claret-colored
lace), Opposition-leader Bavins |»dy
Mrs. Walter Kingsmill, wife of the Piesi-
dent of the Senate, were others well known.
One of the really young dances of the
same night was staged on the verandahs and
in the courtyard of Burdekin House. Ihe
star attractions were the Earl and Countess
of Jersey; and tickets sold like hot cakes.
But the young Earl wasn’t well enough to
come (perhaps the shock of turning up on
Friday to the vice-regal garden party and
finding there was none had been too much
for him), but his pretty girl-Countess
attended. She wore a satin frock, cut fitting
and with an almost tailored simplicity to
the knees, thence falling in wide pleats to
the ground. With it she had a finely-pleated
cape that fell in a deep point at the back and
was shorter over the arms. The courtyard
was gay with lanterns and orange streamers,
and Lady Jersey and the girl hostesses who
had arranged the dance, under the direction
of Mrs. Epps and Mrs. Cotton, had their
tables on the right hand side of the flag-
decked verandah. Doreen and Audrey Hor-
dern were attractive, one in a pink, the other
in a black lace, frock; with them came Diana
Anderson from England. The junketing was
in aid of Prince Alfred’s,
There wasn’t a dance floor in the city lying
idle on this crowded night. The hotels are doing
record business, and the new Australia ball-
room and remodelled lounges have been
thickly populated all the week. A cocktail
party at Kyle House was one of the meeting
places of tlie gay, and Commodore Holbrook s
dinner party on the flagship was one of the
best private parties. And at David Jones s
nearly 2000 dancers jiggled for the benefit
of Tresillian. This last was a positive not
of an affair —well-dressed and bubbling over.
In between whiles the congestion was relieved
by hundreds popping up to the roof for a
bird's-eye view of the illuminations. Hither
came the Governor-General and Lady Isaacs.
Sir Philip and Lady Game, and the Governor
of South Aus. and Lady Hore-Ruthven. Lady
Game’s parchment satins swung a shoulder
drape of heavy lace; Lady Hore-Ruthven,
sheathed in silver sequins, shone even as .Joan
of Arc The Mayoral Walders were part-
time attendants. The Lawrence Ennis
couple came with the Honorable Roland ami
Mrs. Kitson: Mrs. Ennis’s royal blue laces
were weighted with crystal embroideries, and
Mrs. Kitson’s frock was a sheath of magnolia
satin. She wore ropes of pearls and on her
right arm was twisted a string of pink Pearls.
Dr. and Mrs. Bradfield were other Bridge
notabilities, and Dr. Charles Clnbbe and
lady did the honors. Twenty-two debs, in
white satin and carrying pink chiffon and
flower muffs made a pretty picture.
One of the most bought-out dances was
that on the Nieuw Zeeland. This was to
aid the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society, and
the tickets, which started out at 10s. x.
each, were being sold at a guinea and tw<>
guineas each during the last few days. T u
great demand, of course, was because ot the
widespread view of the Harbor illumina-
tions commanded by the boat, w ‘ j
berthed at Circular Quay. The Royal l J c ‘t l
Navigation Co. lent the ship and avowed the
committee to have the supper for the official
party on the captain’s deck. Mrs. Harry
Dransfield, who wore one of the loveliest
black lace frocks of the week, Rs bustle
bow-lined with peach-pink satin, and M ..
Milner Stephen were responsible for the rich
flower decorations. Lady Isaacs brought her
royal-blue laces on from the Tresillian ball.
Palest pink satin nestled under the Ladi
Mayoress’s ermine coat. »he naa
Lud Mayor with her. Chief Justice street
and his lady attended; and the company was
represented by manager Bakker and a.. .
ant-manager Lammers and their wives.
Hundreds and hundreds (somebody said
ten thousand) thronged the grounds ot Vau-
cluse House on Saturday afternoon to see
the Historical Pageant, and that part ot
the entertainment was what the young per-
son calls a terrible flop. The pageant had
had the most widespread publicity, and the
visitor went expecting to be caught m_an
atmosphere of early Australian days. Rut,
alas, beyond a dilapidated old coach at rest
on one of the paths and the spear- and
boomerang-throwing of the abos., this Letter
found nothing approaching the spectacular.
Even the landing of Captain Phillip was a
poor, unimaginative affair. A rowboat was
beached on a tiny strip of sand across the
road from Vaucluse House. A group ot
abos. with spears aloft, some, m skins and
some in flannel trousers, waded out to meet
it. Then up the little gully in self-conscious
silence strode the red-coated white-wigged
Governor and his company. The reception
in the evening was better. To this members
of the Pioneers’ Club and others came in
the costumes of their ancestors, and walked
the stage set on the lawn to the accompani-
ment of explanatory remarks made by the
gossips. Blaxlands, Kings, Wentworths,
Suttors, Eyries, McDougalls and Doyles,
Linghams, Johnstones and Dangars took part
in the play-acting.
The croquet lawn at the side of Warringali
Hall bloomed gaily with marquees on Thurs-
dav in preparation for the North Shore
Bridge Ball at night. This was the star turn
in North Shore’s Bridge gala, and Mayor
Primrose and his Mayoress, along with alt
the Mayors and Mayoresses and borough and
shire fathers of the North Side, had planned
a spacious affair. But in the afternoon the
rain poured and the wind blew so hard that
the supper marquee collapsed like a skit-
tled ninepin, so the 500 guests crowded into
the main hall. Hither came the G.-G. and
his lady as well as the State Exes.; and the
Mayors and Mayoresses and the N. S. Wales
Lancers formed a spirited guard of honor.
Ladv Isaacs glittered in silver-grey satins,
very flowing, and on Lady Game’s parchment
chiffons embossed flowers rioted gaily. Pom-
nadour blues and pinks cooed to each other
in Mrs Primrose’s striking frock. Twinkle
Primrose, the Mayor’s little daughter, handed
brimming flower boskets to the vice-regols.
and had another big moment when she led
the 15 debs, to the dais. The girls who
fluttered flower fans, the gift of Mrs. Prim-
rose, were shepherded by the wife of Alciei"
man S. Spain, who wore the dignity of black
silver.
Sydney being in this gala mood on Satur-
day' the'gees had to prance into the picture,
so the A..T.C. rolled the lawns and dried oft
the pitch at Randwick and made a day ot
it Emerald grass, scarlet salvia, a spark-
ling sky, a good band and the new seasons
millinery are the impressions this Letter
snatched from the Bridge meeting, as the
committee named it. The attendance wasn t
a record one, there were no vice-regals m
the stands, and if it hadn’t been for the
long bob, the coy curls and the scraps ot
hats the affair from a woman’s point ot
view would have been entirely uneventful.
Curls are a necessity with the hat of the
moment, for there must be something to
frame the face where the hat is not. One
of the most attractive heads belonged to


STTMIft
y
é
Mark Everything With
ê
They safeguard all appareland household
linen. N eat. Distinctive and Fadeless.
"A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
cs.&Wllluun&*
Actual Size, Style No 6.
THE PRICES ARE MODERATE.
12doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3d0z.3/6
SOLD BT LEADING DRAPERS.
Write for Name Circular to
J. a J. CASH AUSTRALIAN WEAVING CO. PTT, LTD.
SS CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND, MELB.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LT D~
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production in Australia.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
o ALA WORLD PREMIERE
Of C. J. DENNIS’S
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
Featuring RAY FISHER and CECIL SCOTT at
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE, ’
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
EASTER SATURDAY, MARCH 26.
An ER'tee All-Australian Production.
That well-known daily newspaper, “THE
BARRIER MINER,” completed its 44th
year on February 29. It has had only
11 birthdays in 44 years, having been
born on the Lucky Day in Leap Year,
1888. Having lived both wisely and well,
it stands high in the First Newspaper
Class after 44 years. The people of
Broken Hill and the Far West of N. S.
Wales need no other daily newspaper.
r THE PATRIOT ’
IPjRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
TENKINS.—WiII WILLIAM JENKINS,
J late of West Coast, Tasmania, and last
heard of from Cootamundra, N.S.W., or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, kindly
communicate with his brother HARRY,
Queen’s Head Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
Very urgent.
YY7ILSON, FREDERICK, a son of the
** late George Henry Wilson and Helen
Wilson, and formerly of Warborough, Oswald
Street, Mosman, New South Wales; Puta-ra,
near Eketahuna, New Zealand; and Oba-
kune, New Zealand; or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, or, if dead, of his decease,
please communicate with the undersigned,
who are acting for his brothers and sisters.
SHIPWAY & CO.,
Solicitors, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
\oel Clapp, of Melbourne—her red-gold hair
was bunched under a white felt hat. Philippa
Stephen wore a green frock and green ouills
in a smart black hat; Mrs. Spencer Brun-
ton’s black and whites were impressive;
Margaret Hagon, in horizon blue, was one of
the day’s belles; and as usual many Knoxes
were on the scene.
Small boys with topcoats wide open and
flung back, small boys with coats on their
arms, small boys with lunches in knapsacks,
junior Bed Crossers, their white veils shel-
tered from the raiu by umbrellas, little gills
in light dresses, little girls in woolly dresses,
little girls mackintoshed and goloslied, little
girls carrying suitcases, brave little girls
striding down the city ways, shy little girls
clinging on to the hands of regular princes
of policemen—the army swarmed about on
Wednesday, held up the traffic in George-
street, drove the teachers in charge nearly
distracted at busy crossings, and finally went
home to tell dad and mum all about it. By
2 o’clock 50,000 school kiddies had crossed
the Harbor Bridge, had pinched the pylons
and tried the strength of some of the steel-
work with the toes of their shoes; some of
tiie girls had thought it would be rather nice
to have swings hanging from the top arch,
and some of the real kriuts had reckoned a
fellow could walk along the parapet if he had
the proper things to balance himself with.
The teachers wore a grim smile and a
pinched look about the nostrils. _ But every-
thing “went off bonzer,” in spite of rain,
which made a hash of the programme.
Possibly it is because times haven’t been
so good that Sydney’s tearooms and restau-
rants remained open on Saturday. On big
public holidays in the past most of them
have been hermetically sealed. On Saturday
there were mushroom growths as well.
Enterprising girls rented rooms and stands
and served cups of tea and sandwiches. The
charities chased the elusive bob, too; Burde-
kin House did a roaring trade with the peop. n
who occupied the stands on its venerable
front, and the Anti-T.B. Association ran a
kiosk at the corner of Grosvenor and 'Clar-
ence streets. Here Mayoress Walder and
former Mayoress Jackson and Hilda Marks
juggled trays and buttered toast for the
hungry, thirsty throngs.
Will someone some day invent an instru-
ment for measuring the wind in public
speeches, with an automatic cut-off if there
is more than 98 per cent, of hot air in
any performance? Not even the excellent
Country Women are exempt from the frailty
of using speech to cover a poverty of ideas,
and at the opening of the conference last
week in David Jones’s, when the night
wrapped itself like a hot, damp blanket
around the city, the speeches were of a
length to induce drowsiness, and even _ the
vice-regal attention -seemed to grow limp.
Lady Isaacs and Lady Game were both there
to applaud president Mrs. Matt Sawyer’s
call to the association to redouble its efforts
to stem the drift from the country to the
city, though you’ll probably notice that this
conference wasn’t held at Mudgee. Still,
in decentralisation this splendid country-
woman sees salvation. Mayor Sam Walder
and his Mayoress and Professor Edge-
worth David’s lady were notabilities in the
crowded room.
The most unpopular man present was R. J.
Love, chairman of the Hospital Commission.
Speaking on the question of separate mater-
nity hospitals, one of the objectives for which
the C.W.A. has striven for ten years, ho
said: “Nothing could justify the extra cost
of establishing separate institutions.” There
wasn’t a quill in the room that didn’t
stiffen up in amazement.
The gardens of Elaine, the Double Bay
home of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, made a fine
setting for the first party to the C.W.A.
delegates; and not only country sister, but
the smartest women in town, including the
Consular Donna Grossardi and Mrs. Fay,
turned up. Mrs. Matt Sawyer was there, as
forceful in her black georgettes and shady
hat as when she addi*esses her flock. The
vice-reines, Mrs. W. B. Studdy, Mrs. Hugh
Munro and Mrs. R. H. Dangar were other
well-knowns on the lawns.
Out-back women are showing in the Handi-
crafts Exhibition of the C.W.A. their amaz-
ing capacity for Making Things Do. Some
of their home-grown toys are very clever.
One ingenious lady has yarded up a kan-
garoo with young in pouch, a white rabbit
with a carrot in his buttonhole, two or three
house dogs, a pink rabbit, and other soft
woosey things beloved of babies. Next door
a white knitted elephant lumbers along, and
not far off a grey furry brother looks like
something out of the “Just So Stories.” A
doll’s bed made of clothes-pegs, a bit of
string, a thin slab of board and a brushful
of white enamel is another joy-bringer to
the baby. Wool is everywhere—in tapestry
rugs, in dyed woollen rugs, in shawls and
quilts. Bedspreads are warmed with an inter-
lining of wool, and raw wool is the soft
padding of a dressing-gown of amethyst silk
made by Mrs. D. A. Fowler, of Scone.
Pride of place is given to the three-piece
knitted by Mrs. J. P. Ryan, of Boggabri.
The lady spun, worked and knitted the whole
from the raw wool. It is white with black
edges, and it cost Is. 9|d. Then there’s a
traycloth embroidered with a map of New
South Wales, with here a sheep gambolling
(or is it a tin hare?) and there a rabbit,
arid somewhere else a tree. From Mrs.
James Gibb came a supper-cloth with nose-
gays of native flowers colored as in their
short life. There was a rubber mat made
from old tyres, there was a fancy costume
in which dyed sugar-bags played their part
and there were some kiddies’ garments made
from the same weave. But on a hot moist
day mustn’t they be a sort of purgatory?
Theseus was still struggling with the
Minotaur in the Archibald Fountain after
the handing-over ceremony last week when
S’sam Hordern came round to get a closer
view. Two gentlemen of Hyde Park who
had drifted up were closely considering the
champion in grips with the monster, half-
bull, half-man. “Well, what d’you think of
that?” asked the affable knight. “I sup-
pose this bloke,” one of them answered,
pointing to Theseus, “is meant to be Eric
Campbell. And I suppose that there is
meant to be Jack Lang and his bull.”
“Women of Sydney,” the new magazine
issued in connection with the R.P.A. Hos-
pital, strikes this new ground—it did not
seek any advertising. Its contents are con-
tributed by women well known in the city’s
life of art and philanthropy.
And now that the Bridge is unlocked,
don’t forget that the greatest show of its
kind in the whole wide world—the R.A.S. —
opens officially at the Showground to-flay,
amid the glory of hooves and blue ribbons,
and golden sheaves.
At the Trades Hall next Saturday a
memorial tablet will be unveiled to the glory
of Mrs. Bertha McNamara, one of the early
women of the Labor movement, and mother-
in-law of the late Henry Lawson and of
Premier Lang; an earnest and utterly un-
selfish woman, who followed the light fear-
lessly wherever it led her. Lindon Dads-
well sculped this little shrine of Remem-
brance, and E. J. Cassidy wrote the verse
which surrounds it.
Even the sweeping sheets of rain could
not spoil Oswald Cheeke’s party on Thursday
night, though it drowned the original idea of
dancing on the green, for which the host
had had a floor laid down under the Judas
tree in the garden behind Burdekin House.
That meant dancing in the big dining-room,
and having bridge and supper upstairs; and
from half past eight till midnight guests
continued to drift in and Oswald and friend
Patrick Bellew kept the bridge. Among the
very late arrivals were the Honorable Roland
and Mrs. Kitson, she very tall and graceful
m mossy greens. She has red-gold hair and
the long Stuart face—very arresting. The
Mayoral Sam Walders, too, were late arrivals,
having been first at the Warringah Hall
where North Shore’s Mayors and their ladies
were honoring the vice-regals and the city’s
Lud Mayor. People are still talking about
the supper. It was an amazing spread of
savories, French and Italian dishes. Every-
thing was rich and rare. The white wine cup,
a waiter whispered, was exactly as drunk
by George and Mary in Buckingham Palace.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
f[?] C[?] 800 [?]
Buckley e-Nun[?]
It was swelteringly hot for the Moonee
Valley races on Saturday. Lud Mayor Smith
and Mrs. Dyer were guests at the committee’s
luncheon. The Mayoress looked cool in a white
frock with a coatee patterned in a painted
floral design in the mode of Swiss embroid-
ery ; her hat was also white. Dead-white
millinery of fine straw was popular with
feminine racegoers. Mrs. Fred Gilder had
a gardenia-wreathed hat of this type top-
ping a moss-green wool de Chine frock, and
Millicent Staughton rung the changes with
a white felt chapeau and an enamel-green
flat cr@pe frock. Mrs. J. Baragwanatli was
smart in white chiffon blended with black
satin, and a panama hat. Mrs. H’. Luxton
was also in black and white, and Mrs. U. J.
Nicholas wore brown crepe de Chine figured
in a wee daisy design, with nigger-brown
straw millinery. Mrs. Murray Heffernan,
of Sydney, was in almond-green marocain
and a small mole-colored hat. The Kimp-
tons, Mr. and Mrs. James Purves, Florrie
Green, the Westhovens, Mr. and Mrs. W.
E. B. MacLeod and the W. Mortills were
among those who had not flitted to Sydney
for Easter.
The Malvern Junior Auxiliary for the
Blind Institute put on a dance at Ormond
Hall, which served as a farewell to their
president, Mrs. C- H. Tutton, who with
her husband, is now on her way to Europe
on a holiday visit. Mrs. J. C. Frost, presi-
dent of the senior auxiliary, handed over a
handbag and gloves, Matron Briggs, of the
R.V.1.8., supplementing the gift with a posy
of pink roses that went nicely with Mrs.
Tutton’s gown of bright green flat crepe.
The nursing staff of the Children’s Hos-
pital had a hop at No. 9 on Friday night,
when the guests were largely drawn from
medical circles. Organised by a trio of
nurses, the party went with a swing in a
very effective floral setting of dahlias, zinnias
and gladioli of vivid hues. The chief
engineers were Patricia Hipwell, who danced
in beige lace; Hazel Strong, whose black
chiffon was suspended from scintillating
shoulder-straps; and Joan Goldsmith, who
had touches of black on her green gown
and wore long black gloves.
At St. George’s kirk Nancy, youngest
daughter of the H. M. Daveys, of St. Kilda,
exchanged vows with' John, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Archie Lloyd, of Bairnsdale, wearing
vellum-tinted satin and a tulle veil. She
carried a bouquet of lilium agaratum. Mrs.
John Bagnall, as matron of honor, and two
’maids, with hair banded with gold foliage
and gowns of velvet of amber tone, attended
the bride. The wedding dinner was laid
at the Windsor.
Two ’maids in white filmy lace and tulle
allied to Juliet caps, and carrying sheaves of
pink roses, attended Gertrude, daughter of
the H. R. Keasts, of Elsternwick, who was
in parchment satin and tulle of the same
tint, when she was wedded to Patrick, only
son of Mrs. M. Egan, of Camberwell.
Back in Melbourne after several years in
London are the J. Gibson Stotts, who have
settled at Toorak.
There was much rejoicing in the home of
ex-Lud Mayor Luxton, M.L.A., and Mrs.
Luxton when
news came
that their eld-
est son Lewis,
pictured here
by Broothorn,
was stroke of
the victorious
Cambridge
IJni. crew in
this year’s
Oxford-
Cambr i d ge
boatrace. Eng-
-1 i s h critics
have waxed
lyrical over
Luxton’s per-
formance, his
good judg-
ment receiving
as much praise
as his prowess
as an oars-
man. The
youngster is no novice at the game. He
stroked Melbourne Grammar in the Head-
of-the-River events in 1928 and 1929.
Bananaland fritters:—
The race for the championship fours between the
oarswomen of Brisbane and Bundaberg was watched
by a crowd under the shade trees at Kangaroo
Point. Bundaberg brought home the bacon.
St. Paul’s saw the wedding of Donald J. Fraser
and Elma C. Jorgensen. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in ivory bridal satin with
veil of tulle ’broideries, worn with a Madonna lace
cap and circlet of seed pearls. ’Maids Kathleen
Schatterling and Florence Fraser were in pink and
blue, and Joyce Marks, in lemon, was flower-girl.
St. Thomas’s, Toowong, was all white roses for
Keith Sinclair’s marriage to Clover Sisley. H. E.
Sisley gave away a sister clad in parchment satin
and a Brussels-lace veil lent by her aunt, Mrs. D.
Sisley. Marjorie Young and Jean Sanderson ’maided
In lemon. Sydney and the mountains see the ’moon.
After the Sheffield Shield match at the Brisbane
Cricket Ground there was a gala house for the last
night of the Williamson comedy season, “The First
Mrs. Fraser.”
John Jasper Bell, Tully (N.Q.), married Hazel
Samuels in St. Ann’s. The bride, who was given
away by her father, wore white organdie over satin
with a lace veil. Gladys Wilson and Dulcie Samuels
'maided in salmon-pink and blue Dolly Varden
hats. Glenholm, Highgate Hill, saw the feasting.
Motoring to Sydney is the honeymoon.
In the Ann-street Presbyterian Church, Thomas
L. Cooper and Irene Blanche Westaway made their
marriage vows. The bride was in ivory satin with
Brussels-lace veil. Venters Jubb ’maided in blue
and silver and Adele Dimsdon was flower-girl in
shell-pink. The reception was at the Jenolan; the
honeymoon is an aerial trip over the Northern Rivers.
Tassie tunes in :
Before the Fleet left the Commodore and officers
gave a big ball on the Canberra as a farewell
flourish. Scarlet and white made up the color
scheme, carried out in flags and flowers; colored
lights played on the dancers, and supper was served
on the deck amidships. The Lieut.-Gov. and daughter
Susie were present..
Henley-on-Tamar was a great success in the
North this year, what with perfect weather, plenty
of entries and a good attendance. Mayor A. W.
Monds presented the prizes. The illuminations at
night showed Trevallyn and the river a twinkling
mass of lights.
Jean, youngest daughter of the iate Mr. and Mrs.
A. J. Mandeville, Bothwell, and Harold Minton-
Taylor, Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, signify their intention
of running in double harness in the near future.
An Oriental Bazaar was held at Launceston in
aid of funds for the Tasmanian Sanatorium, the
Albert Hall being transformed into a semblance of
China for the occasion; there was also a very
realistic Indian section. Knight John Evans, presi-
dent of the Sanatorium, opened the show, which
ran for several days.
Hobart has started a new cinema hall, the Avalon,
on the premises formerly known as the Bijou. The
Lieut.-Gov. and party were present the first night,
when Premier MePhee declared the show open. New
sound effects, the work of two Hobart men, Harry
Lloyd and Ronald Hope, were particularly successful.
At “Baby Day,” in aid of the Child Welfare
Association, button-sellers were active and stalls
did a good business. Cicely Shoobridge, with an
army of helpers, was responsible for the arrange-
ments.
Says S. Aus.:—
The Angorichina Flower Festival, in addition to
the three days’ display of gardens and cut flowers
in the Exhibition Building from April 21, will be
assisted by a Queen Rose competition. The rail-
ways, the tramways, shipping, wholesale and retail
industries and theatres will all help, and the girls
selected to be Queens will be canvassed for in every
instance by the name of a rose. It is hoped to raise
by this means more than the required £lOOO.
A delightful informal afternoon tea was given
by the Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) in her
reception-room at the Town Hall to entertain the
wives of the engineers who attended the Adelaide
conference. The municipal gardens contributed a
wealth of flowers. Mrs. Glover wore a black triple
georgette ensemble with a beige lace jabot and a
small black straw hat. The Goodman lady chose
a smart black crepe de Chine toilette, and her hat
was a black shiny straw.
The Port Adelaide Racing Club meeting at Chel-
tenham saw chiffons again predominating, for the
weather was hot. The chairman (Dr. A. V. Benson)
presided at afternoon tea, but ’flu kept Mrs. Benson
at home and Mrs. A. F. Lynch was acting hostess
in her stead. She wore a wine-toned ergpe de Chine
ensemble and a brown straw hat.
Mrs. Eversley Thomas is on her way back to
Adelaide from Kuala Lumpur (Malay Peninsula),
where she was present at her daughter Alison’s
marriage to Mr. Cecil Sharp.
Dr. and Mrs. C. W. Hamilton, after an absence
of several years in England, have returned to Adelaide
and have leased knight Henry Newland’s house at
Victor Harbor for a year.
The Mayoress gave an at-home at the Town Hall in
honor of Miss Wilson, Red Cord Diploma Guider,
from England. The reception-room was fragrant
with pink and red roses. The hostess wore a navy
blue georgette toilette and small navy hat, with the
sash of gold tissue as president. Most of the guests,
including Lady Hore-Ruthven, were in uniform.
A few words from Westralia: —
The Charles Hadleys rang society’s wedding-bells
at St. Mary’s for daughter Phyllis, who signed the
register with Victor Shallcross under the blessing of
the Rev. Stillwell. Azalea georgettes melted into
Chantilly lace, which billowed around the ankles
and was puffed from elbow to wrist; angel-skin straw
widened the brim of the matching bridal hat and
the pink shoes and gloves looked well with the
deeper tinted gladioli sheaf. Sister Gladys trailed
in the bride’s wake, a symphony in lapis lazuli
ninon. The Esplanade Hotel reverberated with the
after-rejoicings; there Mrs. Hadley’s pin-tucked
Burgundy georgettes and the curling ostrich plumes
surmounting the beige and brown outfit of Mrs.
Shallcross were sought out ’twixt the roses, carna-
tions and gladioli.
The Karrakatta Club’s open doors showed a riot
of zinnias, roses, carnations and gumtips when the
L. A. B. Club staged its initial reunion for the
year. Chamber music, folk songs, two-piano work,
a sketch, vocal and piano solos, with a competition
thrown in, made an attractive programme. Presi-
dent Mrs. Cecil Mason embellished ivory satin with
rainbow bead embroideries, and secretary Joy
Fordham nodded greetings .in midnight blue figured
taffetas; Daisy Main’s clinging black velvet sparkled
with diamente; Mrs. Birt’s oriental-toned lame
brocade cloak made a foil for Mrs. S. J. Anderson’s
black georgettes, and Mrs. Chambers’s apricot brocade
looked well beside Marcia Hodges’s soft blue chiffon
inlet with lace.
Zinnias formed a background for Mrs. Ernest Lee
Steere’s navy and white ensemble at her luncheon
party for Miss K. M. Wilson, who popped off the
Orford in a chic pervenche blue suit to attend the
function. Girl Guide Commissioners and lesser fry
rallied around the table. The James lady, Mrs.
John Church, Mrs. John Forrest and Mrs. R. T.
Robinson murmured words of welcome, and Ruth
MeWhae, Margaret Officer, Joan Stowe and Emma
Trigg added their little bits.
Some confusion arose in naming the respective
ladies of knights Kenneth and Alan Anderson, who
arrived in Australia for the connubial knot-tying
of Colin Anderson and Morna McCormick. During
the short time the Orford was in port Sir Alan’s
better half was whisked off to a luncheon by Mrs.
Max Way. Her lovely white hair and pearls were
set off to perfection by black and white in striped
effect, and two charming daughters were in tow;
the dainty Diana is to do ’maid duties at the
ceremony.


THE FROGS OF QUIRRA-QUIRRA.
By katharine Susanah Prichard.
IT had been raining for weeks in Quirra, and
Steve Bevan, who ran the barber’s shop
and billiard-saloon in the township,
watched the river from his back door with
gloomy eyes. The river was rising; a
muddy yellow wash creeping over the flats
and shining in the late afternoon sunshine.
“Quirra-quirra,” sang the frogs, “qua, qua,
qua, qua,” shaking their rattles and thrum-
ming their little drums madly.
That cry of the frogs had named the
township, the centre of a wheat-growing dis-
trict, prosperous until floods took to invad-
ing shops on the river side of the street, and
the price of wheat fell. For two years off and
on flood waters had swirled through the
ground floor of the Horseshoe Hotel, Ross’s
store, Truslove’s bakery and the barber's
shop, leaving their mark in damp discolored
walls and damaged stock. The Quirra River
used not to behave like that, said the oldest
inhabitants; and, of course, wheat had never
fallen so low.
“Hullo, Stevie, how’s things?” Jo Brown
hailed, coming into the barber’s shop with
Ern Bellairs for a packet of fags.
“Not too good, Jo,” Steve replied. “Frogs
is about the only tkiugs’ll be able to live
in this town before long.”
“Oh, well, frogs make good eating, the
Frenchies say,” Ern struck in cheerfully.
“We can start frog-farming if everything else
fails.”
Ern himself had taken over the livery
stables, near the railway station, at his
father’s death; and Jo drove a cart for Tom
Truslove, the baker.
Everybody in the town was moaning and
groaning about the hard times; no work, or
too much ; the havoc the floods had wrought,
or were likely to cause; and the price of
wheat. Farmers round Quirra were stony-
broke, and every storekeeper had bad debts
as long as his arm as well as his own mort-
gages and overdrafts to worry about. But
Steve Bevan was the last man in Quirra
who was expected to look glum. As unoffi-
cial joker of the town he had a reputation
to live up to; a reputation well earned by
the practical jokes he was known to have a
passion for playing whenever he got a chance.
A dapper little cock-sparrow of a man, he
chirruped in and out of season, and there
was always a good laugh to be got at Steve’s
when boys and men gathered round his table
and clicked balls in the evening. That did
not provide Steve with means for riotous
living; but he had cut hair, shaved the lads
when they w r ere going to see their sweet-
hearts, sold tobacco and tickets for Tatt.’s,
managing to enjoy life as an eligible bachelor
should in a country town. Till flood waters
damaged his shop and stock. Then he had
to mortgage the place to pay for repairs and
new stuff; and now half his clients were
“letting the missus cut their hair,” as he said,
while the other half requested him to “chalk
it up” when he gave them a clip or a tin
of tobacco, with a tip for the races and a
funny story or the latest limerick thrown in.
The hard times were hitting him as heavily
as anybody, there was no doubt about it.
The worst of it was, Stevie had fallen in
love; wanted to marry Chloe Truslove and
old Truslove had refused to hear of the match
because of a joke Steve had played on him
a year ago. Before that they were great
cronies, birds of a feather, and had regaled
themselves with many a laugh at somebody
else’s expense.
Friendly relations were broken off when
they were away on a fishing expedition at
Christmas time. Passing the refrigerating
woi'ks near the mouth of the river, Tommy,
who was frugal, had been seized with the
idea of buying a carcase to take home. The
deal negotiated with a man lie knew in the
works, Tommy brought the dead sheep on
board and hung it in a bag to the mast.
It was a mild moonlight night, and Tommy,
having had several pots with friends ashore,
turned in early. There were only two bunks
in Andy Bellairs’s old fishing-boat, so the
party had to take it in turns to sleep. Ern
and Steve, sprawled on the deck, were
swapping lies peacefully when Steve con-
ceived the bright idea of giving old Tommy
a sleeping partner. He unhooked the dead
sheep and laid it beside Tom.
Waking in the small hours to find that
cold naked body beside him, Tommy screeched
and clambered up from the well of the boat,
not knowing in the fuddled state of his brain
whether he was having a nightmare, or
whether murder had been committed in the
dark and he was being “framed” with the
deed.
The lads’ hilarity enlightened him; but
old Tommy was sore at being made such a
fool of. “A joke’s a joke,” he said. “I can
stand a joke as well as anybody. But to
put a dead sheep to bed with a man—it’s
a bit over the fence.”
So, although the story still roused a
guffaw at Steve’s, or when smoke nights and
football socials were in full swing, Steve and
the father of his heart’s desire had not
spoken since.
“Steve needs a bit of cheer-up.” Jo
remarked to Ern Bellairs after they had
left the barber’s shop that night, and were
sauntering ,-dong the wide, deserted street
of the township, where an old-fashioned lamp
on a post broke the rain to tinselly threads
here and there.
“Too right he does,” Ern agreed. “Things
is dull as ditebwater in Quirra these days.”
“Dirt, old Truslove making Chloe break
off her engagement because he and Stevie
had a bust-up!”
“Tommy ’d give anything to get back on
Steve,” Ern volunteered.
“Couldn’t we,” Jo offered hopefully, “put
up something?”
Ern grinned. “Cripes,” he said, “it’d be
great!”
Down on the river flats the frogs squawked
and gurgled, orchestrating under a bleary
winter moon.
“I got it,” Jo cried. “Frogs. What was
it he said? ‘Frogs’ll be the only things
able to live in this town before long!’”
By the light of a candle in Jo’s room
behind the baker’s shop they worked out the
details of a plot to enliven themselves, give
did Tommy his revenge, and so pull the
strings for a happy ending to Chloe Trus-
love’s romance with the barber.
They were a bland, guileless looking pair
of young men when they strolled into Steve’s
for a game of pool later in the week.
Steve made a few bob out of them. Then,
when they were leaving the shop, Ern
remembered that he wanted some smokes.
Steve went behind the counter to get the
cigarettes. Ern put his hand in his trousers
pocket for cash and brought out an envelope
with his two shillings.
“Here, what do you think of this?” he
said. “Some blokes have got a nerve, I
reck’n.” He drew a letter from the envelope
and read: —
Kalgoorlie, July 2.
Dear Sir, —Passing through Quirra by the Kal-
goorlie express on Thursday, I saw your name on
livery stables near the station. Knowing nobody in
the town, please forgive the liberty I take to address
you. I am opening an up-to-date French restaurant
in Kalgoorlie and am anxious to obtain a supply of
frogs for same. There are plenty in your district,
I am told. If you could send me a consignment of
four dozen by the early morning train on Friday
DOUBTFUL.
GRANDPA: “Muriel seems to have captured that young man of hers. Do you think
they’ll make a match of it?”
GRANDMA: “I don’t know—Muriel so seldom keeps her promises!”
I would be obliged, and enclose a ten-shilling note
in payment.—Yours faithfully, A. de Vaux.
P.S.—Please pack the frogs in boxes with air holes
and consign to Albert de Vaux, French Restaurant,
Kalgoorlie. Freight to be paid at this end.
“Ten shillings enclosed?” Jo asked.
Ern put the letter down on the counter
while he took a cigarette from the packet he
had just bought, handed it to Jo and lit up.
Steve picked up the letter, glanced over it,
and at the note pinned across.
“It’s here, all right,” he said.
“Blast him!” Ern answered as he gathered
up his change and casually rammed the letter
back in his pocket. “I got no time to go
chasing frogs. Know anything for the races,
Saturday, Steve?”
“Kittiwake,” Steve volunteered. “She’s
trying, Bob Ross tells me. But I’m makin’
money by not betting these days.”
“Won the handicap at Belmont, couple of
weeks ago, didn’t she?”
“Wouldn’t have her on me mind,” Jo
declared. “She’s all right if she gets away;
but a fair cow at the barrier.”
“Oh well, time to be getting a bit of shut-
eye.” And Ern turned and started for the
door.
“Say, Ern,” Stevie opened up, “how about
those damned frogs? Always had it in the
back of me mind something might be done
with ’em. And business is dead slow. If
you weren’t going to do anything about that
letter, I might as well have a go.”
Ern looked surprised. “Right, Stove!”
He felt in his pocket. “Here it is.” He
handed the letter and envelope, duly stamped
and bearing the Kalgoorlie postmark, across
the counter to Steve, and turned towards
the door.
“I got to put bread on the 5.30 every morn-
ing,” Jo mentioned casually. “If it’s any
good to you, I could pick up the box and
consign it for you, Steve.”
“Thanks, Jo,” Steve replied. It was a.
mile at least from that end of the township
to the railway station, and a walk in the
raw dawn of those wet mornings no man
would hanker after. “If I have any luck, I’ll
put the brutes in a cardboard box with
holes punched in the lid, and leave it
on the doorstep for you to pick up to-
morrow.”
“Good-o,” Jo said, and swung after his
mate.
Out in the wide empty street, Jo Brown
and Ern Bellairs grinned at each other.
The bird had entered the snare, warily, but
without any suspicion of foul play, they
imagined. They went along to report to old
Truslove, who had put up the money and
written the De Vaux letter, arranging with
his brother in Kalgoorlie to rewrite and
post it to Ern Bellairs.
Tommy, in high spirits, decided the next
move was for De - Vaux to acknowledge
receipt of the first consignment of frogs;
state he was satisfied with them as a sample
and could use twice as many. So the letter
was concocted and mailed to Kalgoorlie, to
be rewritten and, with a note for £1 enclosed,
addressed to Steve himself.
“What in the name-er-blazes, is Steve
Bevan doing, tramping about the river flats
all the morning?” people began to ask each
other, and wonder whether, what with love
for Chloe Truslove and the old man’s refusal
to let him see or talk to her, Stevie was
thinking of committing suicide. Then Steve
started to employ small boys to catch frogs
for him after school, at twopence a dozen,
and the gossips decided he was suffering from
softening of the brain..
Steve was naturally secretive, and a little
sensitive, about the object of his activity;
implied once or twice that he was involved
in some scientific research business; men-
tioned his friend Professor Schwartz in an
offhand way, and that frogs were used
largely in experiments to test an anti-pneu-
monic vaccine the professor was working on.
But it leaked out that Steve was selling
frogs to a French restaurant in Kalgoorlie
and making a good thing out of it. The
amount of money Steve was netting grew
each time it was mentioned. There was talk
of opposition, Ern told Stevie over the
billiard-balls one night—prospects of frog-
farming becoming a staple industry aft
Quirra-Quirra.
Tommy Truslove, who had the satisfaction
of releasing at night the frogs Stevie caught,
instead of consigning them by the five-thirty
train to Kalgoorlie. could not resist the plea-
sure of watching Steve at his labors on the
river bank now and then.
“By God, Steve,” he broke his long silence
to say, meeting Stevie with his bag and net
on the bridge, “they tell me you’re making
your fortune these days.”
Steve knew he looked foolish, but carried
off the encounter with dignity, conscious of
a letter from De Vaux in his pocket, saying
that his order for frogs might be increased
to twelve dozen, dispatched twice a week,
and that, as the supply promised to be satis-
factory, he would pay by cheque at the end
of the month in future. De Vaux hinted also
at the possibility of being able to place a
much larger order, as he had been approached
by leading restaurateurs in Perth and Fre-
mantle with the object of providing them
with this foreign delicacy, and making it
as popular in Australia as it was in France
and America. What he had in mind was a
factory for the preserving and canning of
frogs’ legs and, if business continued to be
encouraging, De Vaux hoped, in conclusion,
that he might rely on the co-operation of
Mr. Steve Bevan when the enterprise was
placed on a sound basis.
Building his dream-castles on what this
letter might lead to, Stevie missed the flicker
in old Tom’s eyes, and imagined that Tommy
was becoming reconciled to the idea of him
as a son-in-law, since his ingenuity and
sporting instincts could be turned to such
profitable account.
The end of the month and the failure of
De Vaux’s cheque to come to light, would
bring Steve to his sense, Tommy realised.
Meanwhile Ern and Jo Brown agitated
Steve’s schoolboy hunters to strike for higher
wages, and, frogs becoming mysteriously
scarce under a spell of dry weather and
bright warm days, Steve was harassed to
keep up his orders.
He wrote to his mother, who lived at
Marrajong, where the ground was swampy
all the year round and frogs thrived in count-
less millions. She had several youngsters
by a second marriage, and, under instruc-
tions from Steve, the whole family went
frog-hunting. The frogs they caught were
put in boxes and addressed to Albert de
Vaux, the French Restaurant, Kalgoorlie, as
Steve directed.
The first Jo Brown and Ern Bellairs heard
of this variation of their programme was
when Steve’s mother wrote to him, enclos-
ing a communication she had received from
the stationmaster at Kalgoorlie, requesting
that she would “cause to be removed several
boxes of stinking frogs, consigned by her
and addressed to Albert de Vaux, French
Restaurant, Kalgoorlie,” The boxes remained
unclaimed, and there was five shillings
freight to pay. Steve showed the letter to
Ern Bellairs when he happened to be in tin-
shop that day. • “There’s been a mess-up
somewhere,” Stevie said, looking worried.
“Jo’s been looking after my stuff —put it on
the train —and it’s been all right.”
“I’ll ask Jo to hop along and see what
he makes of it,” Ern promised.
When Joe did not turn up during the
evening Steve began to feel uneasy. But
the business w-as still a mystery to him
when he opened the shop next morning and
went into the billiard-room to iron his table
for the day. He stepped on a frog; an-
other leapt at him from the
billiard-table. The room seem-
ed full of frogs, leaping and
squawking in every direction.
The floor seethed with them.
Steve thought he had frogs
on the brain —thought he was
seeing frogs, as he had been
dreaming about them all night.
Then he discovered that the.
window was open, and on the
sill stood the box into w r hich he
had stowed his last consign-
ment for De Vaux. A card at-
tached read: “With comps.—
Tom Truslovc.”
So that was it! Steve
laughed, thinking of the old
man’s joy at. his come-back. It
was a bit steep, Steve reflected:
but he would show Tommy how
to take a joke.
He did—laughing and sweat-
ing at .Jo and Ern and the old
man until they had drawn the
last sweet drop from his dis-
comfiture. Then Tommy him-
self proposed a celebration,
opened a bottle of his home-
made wine, and, wallowing in
his restored good humor, called
Chloe in and gave the young
couple his blessing.
“All the same, darling, if you
weren’t the consolation prize,'
Steve confided to Chloe a few
days later, “I don’t mind tell-
ing you I couldn’t bear the
sight or the sound of a frog
again.”
But to this day neither Jo
Brown nor Ern Bellairs would
be game to say “frogs” if,
razor in hand, Steve had them
lathered up for a shave. And
even old Tommy feels that he
takes his life in his hands, and is careful
to make tender inquiries about Chloe and
the children when he goes to his son-in-law
for a haircut.
Summer Evening.
I am lost, dissolved into the night;
I am in the slow-stirring leaves, in the
shining air,
I am in the clouds molten in the sunset light.
I am in the dreaming breeze, I am every-
where !
I am singing in the tree-tops with the
thrush,'
I am slipping through the leaning grasses
with the snake,
I am lying in the twilight’s passionate hush
Cupped in the closing lilies on the fern-
fringed lake.
I have been fashioned through the million
years;
I was in the first mists, in the first leap to
the light,
In the first tangled jungles with their driv-
ing fears
That whipped on progress through prim-
eval night.
I have been everything! From a scented
flower,
I have been dew caught up in the sun’s
embrace
To swing from a cloud hammock for a golden
hour,
And then cast down in weeping rain
through space.
lam lost! My salt is riding on the sea,
My dust hangs lightly in the orange sunset
air;
I feel the wfliole of vibrant nature built in me.
To-night lam lost! To-night lam every-
where !
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN A. JENNES.


THE PASSENGER ON THE TRADER.
BY E.S.SORENSON
CAPTAIN KEEL was feeling well satis-
. fied with himself and the river as he
looked over the trading-boat Mermaid
with an air of proprietorship. He had a
considerable interest in her, in conjunction
with Messrs. Stem and Sterne, merchants
and shipowners. She was well laden with
the stores that experience had taught him
were good things on the Darling, and, with
the riversiders buying freely after a good
shearing, he was doing well.
For a couple of hours she had been moored
to the bank, taking in wood in a timbered
bend where nobody lived. Bill Rudder, the
mate, had just thrown his axe aboard, and
narrowly missed the skipper’s toes, when
a young woman with a bundle in her hand
appeared from nowhere and stepped briskly
across the gangway.
“Are you the skipper?” she inquired, with
an ingratiating smile.
“I am,” said that gentleman, throwing his
chest out and beaming, for the lady was
natty and good-looking, with soft, wistful
eyes that gazed straight into his.
"I was wondering,” she said, “if you could
give me a lift to Bourke?”
“H-m-m!” said the captain, his lips com-
pressing and his eyes widening, as though
a problem of the deepest gravity had been
presented to him.
Bob Boyler, the engineer, wobbled up,
ostentatiously to kick a bit of bark off the
deck, a show of tidiness that was unusual;
Bill Rudder stood on the gangway, with
one corner of his mouth open, while he
meditatively scratched the other.
The skipper suddenly bristled. “Now then,
you lubbers,” he roared, “clear away there!”
Mi'. Rudder, who also had an interest in
the business, bristled too. _ “What do you
mean?” lie demanded, ignoring the skipper’s
grimaces. “Not so much of the lubber!”
“What about the lady?” asked the engineer.
“She wants to come with us,” said the cap-
tain, eyeing the mate maliciously. “But I was
thinkin’ how Mrs. Rudder might take it.”
“Or Mrs. Keel,” flung back the mate,
“seeing how suspicious she is of her good
man when lie’s away—which I ain’t saying
she has good reason to be.”
The lady laughed pleasantly as she turned
her pretty face from one to the other. “I
was governess to a person down the river,”
she explained. “I had a row with her,
because she wanted me to be a general help,
and she told me to leave the house. So I
walked off, trusting to get a lift on the
road or the river.”
“H’m !” grunted the captain. “It might be
two or three days before we get to Bourke.”
“I don’t mind that,” she replied sweetly.
“I can help in the store.”
The engineer, whose soft heart was no
bulwark against maidenly distress, here
decided the matter by hauling in the gang-
way and shoving off. Seeing which usurpa-
tion of the mate’s duty, the captain yelled,
“Full steam ahead.”
As he went to the wheel, the mate dragged
a long case of raisins under the awning for
the passenger to sit on. Then he sat down
beside her, whilst the captain’s jaws worked
silently and his eyes blazed. The mate
pointed out places of interest along the river,
where vessels had been wrecked and barges
had been sunk or burnt, interspersed with
reminiscences of the trading history of the
Darling and Murray.
“Mr. Rudder,” roared the captain, “go an’
weigh out some sugar.”
Before Mr. Rudder had time to rise, the
Mermaid bumped on a mudbank, and the
pair toppled backwards over the raisins.
Luckily there was enough way on and enough
water to carry her over, and the captain
smiled again. While the discomfited mate
muttered something about an old barnacle
being off the ship’s course, the barnacle
beckoned to the lady, and she came and stood
by the wheel.
“You can observe the scenery much better
from here,” he remarked. “I was wonderin’
if I could pass you off as my niece, goin’ to
see her grandmother. You see, they all know
me along the river.”
“Qli, anything will suit me,” said the lady,
“as long as I get to Bourke. My name is
Kitty Crew.”
“Nice name,” commented the captain. “If
I was buildin’ a new boat I’d like to call
her that.”
A queer noise alongside made him turn
sharply, and he saw Mr. Boyler in the final
act of straightening his greasy face.
“I hope the engine’s capable of looking after
itself,” the captain remarked sarcastically.
“I was wonderin’ if the lady would like a
cup of tea,” said the engineer.
“Aye, no doubt she would,” said the cap-
tain, softening.
“I would indeed,” the lady assented.
“Thank you, Mr.”
“Boyler—at your service.”
"This is my niece, Miss Kitty Crew,” said
the captain, with facial contortions that
modified the engineer’s astonishment.
“Glad to meet you,” the latter returned,
tilting his greasy cap. “I thought you were
strangers,” he added, suppressing a grin.
“We hadn’t seen each other for years,” the
captain replied. “Bring the tea, Mr. Boyler.”
In the scullery the engineer was looking
for a cup that had a handle, when Bill
Rudder appeared with sugar grains glistening
on his hairy arms.
“Allow me to introduce you,” said the
engineer, with a jerk of his thumb towards
the wheelhouse. “The captain’s niece, Miss
Kitty Crew.”
“Ho, ho !” cried the mate. “His niece Kitty !
Well, blow my tops’ils! The old pirate!”
“Ought to have better sense, a mariner
of his age,” finished the engineer, assuming
an air of righteousness.
“Ah’ tied up to a frowsy old barge that’s
jealous of her own shadder,” added the mate.
The engineer suddenly remembered some-
thing, and darted away with the cup.
“When do you reckon we’ll make Menin-
die, Captain?” he asked.
“In about two hours,” was the reply.
“Why?”
“Thought I ought to tell you about a sur-
prise that’s in store for you,” said the engi-
neer, lifting his cap and scratching his head
with an air of deep concern.
“What’s that?” asked the captain.
“Why, back at the last port I got a letter
from my old woman—an’ you know what
Sarah Ann is for tollin’ secrets an’ swear-
in’ them as she tells ’em to to secrecy.”
“Well?” questioned the captain.
“Well,” repeated the engineer. “That’s
the way it is with me. But, seein’ how
things are, circumstances, as the sayin’ is,
alters cases.”
“What the blazes are you talkin’ about?”
cried the skipper.
“She wrote that Mr. Sterne was takin’
a run to Menindie in his Sedan, an’ he was
givin’ a joy ride to a couple of ladies as a
special favor an’ a pleasant surprise to you
an’ Mr. Rudder.”
“What ladies?” asked the captain.
“One of ’em is Mrs. Keel, an’ the other’s
Mrs. Rudder,” replied the engineer.
“Hell!” gasped the captain with a start,
whilst Mr. Rudder opened one corner of his
mouth and ponderously stroked the other
corner.
“I suppose it’ll be a pleasant surprise to
Mrs. Keel too,” added the engineer, “when
she finds her niece on board!”
“You dunderhead lobscouser !” cried the cap-
tain ; “why didn’t you tell me that before?”
The engineer gazed over the bowsprit and
shrugged his shoulders. “I’ll get a rakin’
if you let out that I told you even now,” he
returned.
The captain looked at the mate. “What are
you goin’ to do?” he asked in a low voice.
CONTAGIOUS.
FIRST ACTRESS: “In my love scene in the first act I didn’t know whether to close my
eyes or not.”
SECOND DO.: “I noticed a similar indecision in the audience.”
“It’s your responsibility. Captain,” an-
swered the mate, half-turning away. “I’ve
got no nieces in my locker.”
The captain glared as though stricken
dumb, while Mr. Rudder folded his arms
and looked out through the river gums. Then
he called sharply: “Take the wheel.”
A flock of galalis went squawking across
the river, but the mate didn’t seem to hear.
“Didn’t you never see a blasted gum-tree
■Before ?” the captain roared. “Come an’
take the wheel.”
He stepped down and escorted the perplex-
ing young lady aft, where the engineer was
assiduously polishing his plates as though
he took a pride in the Mermaid’s jewellery.
“Bob,” he said ingratiatingly, “I was won-
dering if you could accommodate Miss Crew
in your cabin till we get away from Menin-
die. It’s the only place those women won’t
invade when they come aboard. You see,”
he added, turning to Miss Crew, “they’re
a suspicious pair—they’ve been told tales —
scurrilous an’ groundless tales about river
life. I’ve reason to think that the surprise
visit has been prompted by suspicions, an’
if they see you on board—well, I’m not want-
in’ to compromise you in any way”
“This is getting quite romantic,” laughed
Miss Crew. “But don’t let it worry you;
I’ll hide anywhere you like —as long as I
get to Bourke.”
“In my cabin ?” muttered the engineer with
dissent in his voice. “I hope nobody hears
about it.”
“That will be all right,” the captain
assured him. “Hop down there, my dear,
an’ make yourself comfortable. But keep
out o’ sight of the companionway. An’ for
God’s sake don’t forget where you are an’
start singin’.”
As soon as she had disappeared, the cap-
tain waddled back to the wheel. “I want
you to recollect,” he said to Bill Rudder,
“that there’s no passenger on this ship when
other people are present.”
Mr. Rudder grinned. “I understood you
to say she was your niece,” he remarked.
“What of it?” snapped the captain. “The
nosey Janes we’re expectin’ don’t know' her.”
The mate pretended to be interested in a
couple of old whalers who were playing cards
on the bank, with fishing-lines tied to their
legs. As they drifted astern he directed his
attention to more important things ahead.
The Mermaid was now churning proudly
towards the wharf at Menindie, and the
mate was looking anxiously for the surprise
party. A few people were scattered about,
including a blackfellow and his gin.
“Wonder has that grease spot been hoaxin’
us?” he said musingly.
“If he has I’ll heave him overboard,”
snapped the captain.
“Don’t mean to say you’ll be disappointed
if the old tart isn’t here?” queried the mate;
and in the next breath he cried excitedly:
“There they are—trottin’ down in all their
finery an’ laughin’ as if it was a great joke.
But”—he stopped and stared —“it ain’t my
missus. It’s Mrs. Keel an’ Mrs. Boyler!”
“Damn it!” gasped the captain. “What
a mean trick to serve on Bob! An’ there’s
that woman in his cabin —the first place the
old harridan will make for. Give me the
wheel an’ stand by there. God knows how
we’re going to get out of this.”
The engineer had already recognised the
unexpected, and was sweating profusely and
handling his mechanisms in an abstracted
manner. While Mrs. Keel was a dame of
ample proportions, Mrs. Sarah Ann Boyler
was a tall, bony creature with hawk eyes
and a vinegary expression. They were on
board the moment the Mermaid had glided
to the wharf.
The mate dissembled magnificently. In
his astonishment he almost forgot to make
fast. It was certainly a pleasant surprise
to him—-that Mrs. Rudder wasn’t there.
“You didn’t expect to see us here to-day,”
laughed Mrs. Keel.
“Never dreamt of it,” answered the mate.
“The captain will be delighted.”
The captain was staring from the wheel
as if stunned with amazement. Then he
stepped briskly forward. “I couldn’t believe
my eyes,” he cried. “However did you get
here?”
“Just my luck,” said his wife. “Mr.
Sterne offered me an’ Mrs. Rudder a run
up in his ear. But at the last moment Mrs.
Rudder’s sister came to stay for a week,
an’ she couldn’t leave. So I persuaded Mrs.
Boyler to come with me.”
“Bob will be glad,” said the mate, rather
louder than was necessary.
Bob seized an opportunity to whisper into
his den: “For the Lord’s sake, hide yourself,
Miss!” Then he darted into the engine-
room as if oblivious of the women’s presence.
“Mr. Sterne wanted to take me right on
to Bourke,” Mrs. Keel was saying. “But I
thought you’d like us aboard, as we could help
in the store, an’ the river trip will be nicer.”
“Yes, yes, certainly,” said the captain,
casting a fierce look at the grinning mate,
“only,” he added thoughtfully, “the river
seems to be falling, an’ it’s rather doubtful
if we’ll get to Bourke this trip. If -we should
be stranded you might have to walk. An’
Menindie is a better place to stay at than
Bourke. More attractions —an’ there’s a
beautiful lake not far out. Lake Pama-
maroo. You ought to see that. Both of you.”
“Oh, hang the lake!” laughed Mrs. Keel.
“We’d rather see the river. An’ bein’ on
the boat is better than stayin’ at a pub.”
“I must find my old man,” said Mrs.
Boyler.
“Stow that blasted grin and attend to
the store,” the captain hissed to the mate.
Then he shuffled after the women—to shep-
herd them over the ship.
He was hoping for a rush of customers
that would call for a helping hand in the
grocery department; but the towns, having
stores of their own, were never much good
to the Mermaid.
His brow was furrowed. How to get Kitty
Crew off the ship was a perplexing problem.
If he managed to land her at Menindie, the
residents would be curious about her. If
he took her on, unknown to the prying in-
truders, there would be the same curiosity
at Bourke, and the women were sure to hear
about it. He thought of lowering her into
the little boat that was towed astern, and
casting her adrift when Menindie had been
left behind, and while the mate was enter-
taining the obtrusive pair in the store; but,
then, some angling old whaler might observe
the strange action and bruit it all over the
river.
The presence of that girl was worse than
a shipwreck.
Meanwhile Mrs. Boyler had discovered
Bob, industriously attending to some imagi-
nary engine trouble.
“Hey! Look who’s here,” she called down
to him.
“Well, I’m jiggered if it ain’t Sarah Ann!”
cried Bob with a sickly smile that was in-
tended to batten his resentful feelings under
hatches. “Why didn’t you tell me?”
“I didn’t know,” she interrupted; and
then Mrs. Keel chipped in with the explana-
tion she had given the captain.
“Only for that,” continued Mrs. Boyler,
“you wouldn’t have had the pleasure of my
company to Bourke.”
“To Bourke?” gasped Bob, turning pale.
“I —I don’t know how we’ll manage for
accommodation”
“Oh, we’re not particular,” said his wife.
“We'll manage.”
Bob suppressed an oath as he came on
deck, wiping his hands and his oily face with
a lump of cotton waste. “This is like home,”
lie said weakly, and with an anxious glance
at the captain, in whose countenance there
was no inkling of appreciation of the home
atmosphere. Mrs. Keel was nosing about
Bob’s little dungeon.
“It’s hot near the engine,” Bob said
anxiously. “Come along the deck a bit
where we can get a breeze.”
But Mrs. Boyler had turned to her com-
panion. “That’s Bob’s crib,” she said, pre-
paring to descend. “Let’s take a peep while
we’re here.”
Bob looked sick. “I—l wouldn’t advise
you to,” he said awkwardly.
“Why not?” questioned Mrs. Boyler.
“The place is alive with cockroaches an’
mice,” said Bob. “Run up your legs, they do.”
Mrs. Keel clutched her skirt involuntarily.
“Nice things to have on a tradin’ boat,” she
reproved. > “Why don’t you get rid of them ?”
“I’ve tried an’ tried, but there’s no shift-
in’ the pests.”
“An’ you with such a horror of cock-
roaches !” commented Mrs. Boyler. “I won-
der you can sleep there.”
“I often wonder myself,” said the engi-
neer. “But whenever the weather’s agree-
able I sleep on deck. Sometimes I take the
blankets ashore.”
He was endeavoring to edge them away
when the silence of the pest-hole was sud-
denly broken by a sharp sneeze. All started
as if it had been an explosion.
“Why,” exclaimed Mrs. Keel, “there’s
somebody down there. Who is it?”
“Must be the cat,” said the captain des-
perately. “We smuggled one aboard to
catch the mice.”
“That was no cat,” said Mrs. Boyler;
then, noticing the strange manner of the
engineer, she grabbed the rear of her dress
determinedly and darted below.
Bob leaned on the rail with an anxiously-
expectant expression. The captain gazed
aloft and prayed for a mouse to scurry from
under the bunk.
Shortly there came instead the sound of
shocked voices. Bob looked accusingly at
the skipper, who stood, with hands behind
him, listening.
Crouching at the back of some small cases,
Mrs. Boyler discovered Kitty Crew. Her
thin lips seemed to grow thinner as she eyed
the girl with the fierce gaze of a fish-hawk.
“So,” she said icily, “this is the mouse!
This is the cockroach that runs up Bob’s
legs!”
“Sh!” whispered the girl, putting her
finger to her lips. “Don’t betray me, will
you? I’m a stowaway.”
“A stowaway, are you?” questioned Mrs.
Boyler. “In my husband’s cabin?”
“Don’t blame him; he had nothing to do
with it,” pleaded the girl.
“An’ why are you here, pray?” demanded
Mrs. Boyler.
“I stowed away because I wanted to get
to Bourke, and I had no money to pay my
passage. If you tell them they’ll put me
ashore.”
Her face drooped as if she was going to
cry. Mrs. Boyler softened; and just then
a mouse squeaked under Bob’s bunk.
“Saved !” murmured the captain fervently:
at the same time he wondered how the rodent
had got aboard.
Mrs. Boyler pattered briskly to the deck,
with Kitty Crew following at her heels.
“Now, look,” she said breathlessly. “This
poor kid stowed away on the Mermaid to
get to Bourke.”
“Oh.” said the captain, trying to look
severe in his sudden relief, and with a feel-
ing of admiration for his passenger. “An’
when did you come aboard, young lady?”
“When you were getting wood down the
river,” she replied. “I hope I haven’t done
any great wrong.”
“Well, it might have been worse,” grunted
the captain. “But you’ll have to go ashore.”
Mrs. Boyler looked at Mrs. Keel.
“Let her stay,” said the latter. “It won’t
make any difference to the ship.”
“How are we goin’ to accommodate three
women?” asked the captain. “This isn’t a
passenger boat.”
“ ’Twould have, been easy enough with
one,” put in the mate, rather maliciously.
“There’s plenty of room on the deck,”
said Mrs. Keel.
“Or you can go ashore at night like Boh
does to get away from the cockroaches,”
added the mate.
“.Certainly,” said Miss Crew. “Anywhere
will do me as long as I get to Bourke.”
“Oh, all right, all right,” assented the
captain brusquely.
As he waddled away a seraphic smile
spread over his ruddy countenance.


WfcJ
kfc
v
\
m
SP *C
4
&
9rt
%
V
%S
c m
SPt.
£XPn
**U,
>
O
o>
fi
So
W.
*
5k
**
CO
4
By
*-£y
4 Mf
'*•£/>
*/?*
Ck
6
l
$
>
«A
LI
A
30,
16 A
M
fbr a Summer
thirst* * - a long
beer-** a cool
beer--the best
beer of all
Resch's Pilsener/
Ask for the
long
bottle.


Use Horses for Economy and Prosperity
No. 306 WALTHER
TEAM “BALLARAT.”
NO MATTER WHAT YOU PAY
WALTHER TEAM “BALLARAT”
COLLARS ARE CHEAPEST IN
THE LONG RUN.
No. 306 TEAM is everything a
good collar should be, and is suitable for wool-
and wheat-drawing, railway construction and
similar heavy work. The greatest care is put
into the shaping of the body, and you can rest
content that you will not have your horses
laid up with sore shoulders or chafed necks.
See how the rim is laced to the body side away
from the hames giving added strength. It has
hand-stuffed rim, stout draught pieces, lined
top and two straps.
PRICE, 58/6.
No. 319 FARM “BALLARAT” is a little lighter,
suitable for lighter draught work, and is canvas
lined. Price 457-
No. 321—Two-strap Cart Collar 307-
No. 300—Special Cheap Plough Collar . . 25/6
All collars over 20in. 1/6 per inch extra.
Blocked-eye Team Winkers, 14/6. Blocked-eye Cart or Plough Winkers, 127-
Plough Backhands, 3in., 8/6; 3*in., 9/-. Hames, 15/6. Tested Chains, 1/3 lb.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
395 George Street,
Sydney.
é
ê
ë
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
full information, copies, advertising rates oj “The Examiner,” VWeekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
IIU1L
M
i
ADVANCING
allied with every industry, ever widen-
ing its activities, and adding to its usefulness,
the Bank stands — a guardian, a helper and a
stabilising force. • Its widely spread estab-
lishment includes 443 branches and offices in
Australia and two offices in London. Its
agents overseas include leading banking-
houses providing world-wide representa-
tion. • With Capital paid up £5,000,000,
with Reserves £3,300,000 (used in the
business), with aggregate Assets of
£43,000,000, and with seventy-two
years’ intimate contact with Aus-
tralian production, trade and
finance, it links its great monetary
resources, wide experience and
progressive policy to the growth
of the industries of the nation.
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA
HEAD OFFICE
- 271-9 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
SYDNEY'S UNDERGROUND RAILWAY.
ON February 28 there was brought into
use the second section of the City
Underground Electric Railway, from
Central Station to Wynyard-square; and on
the opening of the Sydney Harbor Bridge
on March 19 this section was extended
across the Bridge to junction with the
North Shore line near Waverton, thus pro-
viding through railway connection between
the northern and southern sides of the
harbor.
Sydney’s main lines and suburban railways
for 70 years terminated at Central station, on
the outskirts of the business heart of the
city. The journey from there to business
places in the city proper was undertaken on
foot or by ’bus, by horse trams (1861-
66), by steam trams (1879) or by elec-
tric trams (since 1899). The change at
the Central was necessarily more or less
inconvenient, and street traffic had reached a
point which necessitated some steps being
taken to relieve the congestion. Nor were
the residents on the northern side of the
harbor much better off—they had the ferry-
trip to the Quay, with a walk or tram ride
on the city side.
For many years past the railway adminis-
trations have considered schemes for link-
ing up these two systems by continuing the
railway into the city, and providing a con-
nection to the northern side of the harbor
by means of a bridge or tunnel. But it was
not until a few years ago that the Govern-
ment authorised the construction of the City
Railway and the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
The construction of an underground city
railway, of course, necessitated the con-
version of the suburban services from steam
to electric traction, as it would have been
quite impracticable for a steam service to
have been operated in the long tunnels of
the City Railway. Consequently, coincident
with the tunnelling under the city, a vast
amount of work had to be undertaken to
electrify the busier suburban lines, so that
with the opening of the first section of the
City Railway electric trains would be avail-
able to run direct into the city. The man
in the street would find it difficult to realise
the vast amount of work entailed in carry-
ing out such a scheme, while maintaining
the ordinary steam services. For example,
power stations and sub-stations had to be
erected and equipped; structures manufac-
tured and erected for carrying the overhead
cables; tracks reballasted to prevent cur-
rent losses; rails bonded ; improvements to
signalling to provide for the faster traffic
movement; construction of two additional
tracks between Sydney and Homebusli, with
a new station at Strathfield : two additional
tracks from Sydenham to Hurstville; and
the construction of nearly 600 all-steel
coaches, about 100 new wooden coaches, and
widening of about 190 of the latest steam
coaches. Of this new rolling-stock all but
the first 50 steel cars was constructed locally.
When it is considered that this constructional
work was carried out without interruption to
the heavy suburban services (about 750
trains per day) it must be admitted that the
accomplishment is one of which the Railway
Department may feel justly proud. The
first electric service was run in March, 1926.
When the new Central station was con-
structed, just prior to 1906, space was left
on the eastern side, and it was there that
the new Central electric station was built.
The flyovers, which were constructed on
the tracks approaching this station, are an
interesting feature of the work. These
flyovers consist of a series of elevated and
depressed tracks adjacent to one another,
which enaDle a train crossing another track
to pass above or below trains running on
that track in the opposite direction, thus
obviating the delays that would be entailed
THE ROUTE OF SYDNEY’S “UNDERGROUND."
in making such crossings with all tracks
on the one level. The arrangement also
permits of trains travelling in the same direc-
tion being run into each side of each island
platform.
There" are eight tracks through Central
electric station, and after leaving the
station they converge into six tracks which
continue into the city, running over Eddy-
avenue in the open as far as Goulburn-
street, where the two eastern tracks diverge
and pass through Museum station and ter-
minate at St. James. This section was
opened in December, 1926. and 34 trains
per hour are dealt with in each direction
during the evening peak period
The other four tracks, known as the city-
inner, city-outer, and up-Shore and down-
Shore tracks, cross under a number of big
city buildings, and eventually pass under
George-street, where, in front of the Town
Hall, is an underground station bearing
city-oS e 'tunnd P deSs S to t\e S 1o t w\v3
and enters the station at that level adjacent
to the position of the future Western Suburbs
tracks. The other three tracks pass through
the high-level platforms at Town Hall.
After leaving Town Hall station, the city-
outer track also drops down to the low level
and the city-inner and city-outer tracks run
into low-level platforms at Wynyard, where
they terminate for the present. These two
tracks will eventually be extended round
across Circular Quay and junction with the
other section of the City Railway at St.
James.
The up-Shore and down-Shore tracks enter
Wynyard station on the high level, at which
there are four platforms in all, the other
two being known as the up-Shore local and
dowu-Shore local. The up-Shore and down-
Shore tracks then proceed across the Harbor
Bridge, and after passing through Milson’s
Point and North Sydney stations, junction
with the old Milson’s Point line near Waver-
ton. The up-Shore local and down-Shore
local tracks at Wynyard are being tempo-
rarily used for trams, which will be run
across the Bridge from and to North Sydney,
The whole lay-out of the City Railway has
been designed with a view to future exten-
sions. On the eastern side, between St.
.Tames and Museum, are flyover crossin as.
leading from the two centre platforms at St.
James to the future Eastern Suburbs line,
whilst provision is also, made for these lines
to extend in the opposite direction to cross
under the city lines and form a trans-ciiy
line running through the vacant piauorm
faces on the lower level of Town Hall
station. South of that station are more fly-
overs to permit of these tracks passing under
the city lines and eventually running f>" f
to the Western Suburbs. Provision is also
made near Redfern station for future con-
nections for the junction of the line from
the Eastern Suburbs, where it will rejoin
the main lines.
Each of the city stations has its own
distinctive features, Wynyard being one of
the largest underground stations in the
world. Wynyard and Town Hall are both
three-decker stations. At Town Hall the
con .? ourse ia immediately below the street
? urf “®’ and 7 med f ely be “ eath hl «
bwo Shore tracks and one City track while
other City tiack and the future Western
Suburbs tracks are on the floor below, 56
feet below the street level. Access to the
station from street-level is by a number of
stairways at convenient positions on each
side of George-street, and to the lower-level
platforms by stairways and escalators. At
Wynyard the concourse is reached from
entrances in George-street, Hunter-street and
York-street, escalators being also provided
from the latter entrance. The concourse is
situated between the upper- and lower-level
platforms, to which easy access is obtained
by stairways. A new type of ticket-rack
has been adopted at Town Hall and Wyn-
yard stations, which will enable tickets for
any suburban station to be issued at any
of the ticket windows, and will facilitate
this side of the business considerably. The
lighting, indicators and general facilities for
the public are of the most modern type. The
border tiles at the various stations are of a
different color, the base color in each case
being, cream. At Museum the border tiles
are maroon; at St. James, green; Town
Hall, deep yellow; and Wynyard, dark blue.
Every known provision is made for safety.
The signalling system allows of maximum
track capacity and speed, but at the same
time makes provision for stopping a train
automatically in the event of a driver passing
a signal at “danger.” A “dead-man’s handle”
j s also provided in the driver’s compartment,
which will automatically stop the train if
the driver removes his hand from the handle,
thus providing against any mishap to the
train should the driver become incapacitated
-f,. nrn „„„
Tl , , .' ~ , . . ~ ~
.T] 10 in the tunnels is exceptionally
solld > the hardwood sleepers being set m
concrete and the rails resting on steel plates
with a thin wooden pad interposed; the
whole being designed to reduce noise and
vibration to a minimum.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A man wearing a soft felt hat, a dingy
coat all unbuttoned, no waistcoat, a blue
shirt on full parade duty and slop trousers
waited at the Queensland railway commis-
sioners’ office the other day. The messenger
took him up abruptly with a “What is it?”
“Is the secretary in?” “Yes; what d’you
want with him?” “I want to see him.”
“What’s your business?” “Tell him, please,
I have come about my pass.” “Oh, no, you
CONVINCING HIS COUSIN.
OUT PARTY (to up-country postmaster) : “Would yer be afther
stamping that parcel whin yer send it off, sir?"
POSTMASTER: “Yes. Eh, what does it contain?”
O. P.: “A thermomiter.”
P.: “A WHAT?”
O.P.: “A thermomiter, uv course; me cousin down in Sydney
won’t believe that the heat is 110 up here, an ’ Oi’m just
sendin’ him down the thermomiter fer him to see for him-
self.” [.G. R. Ashton. —18/2/’93.]
don’t; we don’t have anything to do with
passes here —you must go to the Labor
Bureau.” “Well, you’d better tell the secre-
tary that” but the finish is better told
by explaining that the waistcoatless man was
wharf-lumper Turley, M.P. for South Bris-
bane, on the warpath for his railway pass,
clad in full working uniform. [lO/6/’93.]
Old Mactaggart, of Brumbydool, had one
particular hobby, and that was his rain-
gauge.. Every morning (even in drought-
time) he would make a solemn inspection,
and enter the result in a book, which was
forwarded once a quarter to the nearest
editor. One evening there was a heavy
thunderstorm at Brumbydool, and old Mac
almost bored the two “colonial-experience
men” to death about his fad. That night,
when all was quiet, one of the jackeroos took
a bucketful of water and emptied it into the
gauge. “I reckon that will startle the old
fellow,” said he. Next morning, when old
Mac went ; as usual, to see the result of the
night’s rain, he turned pale, and rushed back
into the house. “Quid Gawd! Twenty-two
eenches of rain! Man, there’ll be a flood;
we must get the frontage paddocks mus-
tered at once.” As the two pastoral students
l’eturned from a hard day’s mustering, one
l’emarked to the other, “The next time you
want to fool with that cui'sed thing, you’d
better fill it up with skim milk.” [6/5/’93.]
The late G. D. Langridge, M.L.A. (Vic.),
some time Commissioner of Public Works,
had a pretty wit. One day a deputation
from Burrabudgery waited upon him con-
cerning the necessity for the erection of a
gaol in the town. The chief of the delega-
tion was particularly effusive in the matter,
so much so that Langridge, turning to an-
other ambassador close by, earnestly asked:
“Why is he so anxious? Does he expect
to be ran in soon himself?”. After listening
to all the oratory, Langridge, without a
smile, said: “Gentlemen, I knew very little
about your town before, but I am now con-
vinced that it has a future. I have now
made the acquaintance of a number of the
town’s leading citizens . (the deputation
bowed), and, after meeting them, though
unable to state exactly what the Govern-
ment will do, I may say that I am now fully
convinced that in your town a new gaol is
urgently needed.” The deputation left, won-
dering why the reporters giggled. [lO/6/’93.]
An odd character was Mr. P. Kittison,
proprietor and editor of the Charleston
(M.L.) “Herald,” who has just struck out
for the Golden Shore. Kittison was a man
of parts, but the parts didn’t co-ordinate,
somehow; each one appeared involved in a
struggle for supremacy with the other —•
neutralising it, so to speak; lienee, from a
business point of view, he would have been
a greater success had he been built more
on the harmoniousi lines of the jackass. His
solemn, serious visage would have got him
a fortune as an undertaker had not a pair
of bright flashing eyes and just the slightest
touch of the brogue marred its usefulness in
this direction by advertising the owner as
one of the drollest “sticks” that ever left
the Ould Sod. His
mental endowments
were interfered with
in a similar way. A
printer by trade, he
took to gold-digging
on his arrival in
Maoriland, and, hav-
ing thus thrown
away all his chances
of making money,
finally setled down in
Charleston (a mining
township which had
then seen its best
days), where, until
liis demise a few
weeks ago he
printed, edited and
published the
“Herald” —a four-
page sheet which
sometimes appeared
bi-weekly, and some-
times didn’t, just
according to circum-
stances. The columns
of the “Herald” often
presented rather
strange, journalistic
anomalies. For in-
stance, an editorial
on the maritime
strike commenced in
the heavy style
affected by the con-
ventional paper, but
before proceeding
very far broke out
thus: “We should
have referred to this
matter at great
length had we not
been summoned to
assist in an opera-
tion which was being
performed on Mr. M.
Flannery’s celebrated
racehorse Bucepha-
lus, the vertebral
joint of a barracouta
having stuck in the
animal’s sesopliagus
while it was nibbling
some carrots in Mr.
A. Macdonald’s back
premises. We are
pleased to state, by
the way, that the
operation was highly
successful, and with
judicious treatment
the equine wonder
will yet be able to pull off the big
money on the 17th. We may inform the
press agency and some of our respected con-
temporaries, in conclusion, that the fancy
appellation recently bestowed on these char-
acters (blacklegs) will not make matters
any better, because a ‘scab’ by any other
name will still be the same old sore.”
[9/6/’93.]
On the steamer Manapouri, en route to
Maoriland, a well-known clergyman was con-
ducting service on a recent Sunday. In
l-eciting the Lord’s Prayer, he had got as
far as “give us this day our daily bread,”
when his face assumed a pallid hue. He
stopped short. Attempted to go on, failed,
then explained: “I am so sorry, my friends,
but I have forgotten the rest —and, oh, I
feel so ill!” The next moment he was study-
ing “the deep blue sea.” [l7/6/’9.3.]
Theatrical managers love to “best ’ news-
papers, but occasionally the press comes out
on top. In a Maoriland town, Jimmy Mac-
Mahon was piloting a show, and had dropped
round to the news office to insert a very
small advertisement and get in a very big
“local.” The editor was the only person in
the office, the staff being away in the next
town at an election meeting, and the devils
were riding back and forth with the reports
therefrom. Jimmy and the editor were. telling
little yarns to each other, and getting on
nicely, when the firebell clanged. One or
the “devils” called up the stair that the
Town Hall was blazing. The editor was in a
quandary. He had none of the staff about,
and he himself had to remain in the office.
In silvery tones he explained the position to
Jimmy “Would Mr. MacMahon run out and
write it up?” Mr. MacMahon went, came
back and soon had run off a column of
“devouring element,” “lurid glare” and
“awful conflagration.” Just as he handed it
in, a policeman called round to say there was
to be an inquest in about 10 minutes on a
man who had been found dead along the
road. “We’re rushing things,” said the
policeman, “because the coroner has to catch
the eight o’clock train. The other paper has
its sub. there, and I don't want to see you
left.” Once more the silver-tongued appeal,
and one more column of “fearful tragedy” and
then came in quick succession a buggy acci-
dent, and a late train, and a street row, and
various other assorted excitements, and
Jimmy “did” them all before that editor let
him go home. Next day Jimmy found he’d
written about half the paper—and also that,
owing to the pressure on our space, ‘ the
long ‘local’ which Mr. MacMahon has so
courteously written about his own show” had
been crowded out. [6/5/’93.]
A true Australian educational story;
names fictitious. Inspector Beardley, of the
Wangdool district, examines first class of
Bullfrog Gully school: —
Who made the world? —Gold.
Yes. In how many days?—Five.
Wrong. Next?—Six. „
What did God make on the second day?—Plaze,
sorr, the furr-ma-mint.
And on the fifth ?—The fitheth of the thea and the
fowlth of the air. . .
What was God’s last work? —He made Adam outer
red clay. . .
Who was Adam’s wife? —Missis Adams.
Wrong. You at the end, there? —Eve.
How did Adam and Eve offend God?—Eatin’ green
apples. ,
What did God do to them?—Druv ’em outer th’
garden. . . . . „
How did he keep them from entering again?
(Long pause. At last) —Plaze, sorr, He wint an’
nailed the palin’s. [l/4/ 93.]
A newly-arrived English doctor recently
bought a practice in a small N.S.W. country
town, and had not been there a week when,
about midnight, he was aroused by a man
who said his mate was dying some 36 miles
out. After a fast rough ride through blind-
ing rain, they reached the sick mans hut
—to find the patient well out of danger.
Installing the mate as nurse tne doctor re-
tired into an adjoining room, on one side
of which was a bedstead built of wood aud
having a calico top. He lay down and was
just going off, when a drop of something
lukewarm fell upon his face. Thinking it
was only the rain coming through the roof
he turned over aud slept the sleep of ex-
haustion. Awaking at sunrise, he found his
face glued to the pillow, his mouth refused
to open, one ear and eye were effectually
sealed, and his pillow was a mass of blood,
Then the untrammelled eye discovered on
the calico bed-roof a huge red stain and the
outline of something terribly like a human
body. Tremblingly mounting his bedroom
furniture—a box—he cautiously examined
the top of the bed, and found the body of a
freshly-killed and badly-bled sheep! Inter-
rogating- his companion of the previous even-
ing why he had made the bed into a meat-
safe, that individual blandly replied: “Them
native cats and dogs is so blasted bad that
a feller ’as ter keep his meat indoors, an
the caliker top o’ the bed seemed a ’andy
place to stow it.” Then that young medico
scraped the blood off himself, repaired to
his hotel, and passing by with a shudder the
chops offered him, wrote a long letter to his
people at. ’Ome about the uncivilised condi-
tion of this beastly country. [27/5/'93.]
A lady, evidently the last of an other-
wise extinct species—a kind of human
megatherium left over when all the other
members of the race of silent women were
extinguished in the Deluge—advertises :
A LADY OP REFINEMENT, good health, good
temper, commonsense and executive ability, desires
a position of responsibility somewhere on earth;
can travel, read, write, walk, drive, converse, or be
silent with old or young, male or female. —Address,
L.W., Box 230, “Examiner” Office.
She must be very, very old—the primitive
Dweller on the Threshold —the woman who
was before the Cosmos —the female who
had no beginning and no end. And, un-
luckily, the only man who was silent enough
to be a suitable husband for her is dead, so
there is no chance that she will marry and
prevent her species dying out. [l5/4/’93.]
THE HEAVY SAINT.
FAT PARTY (after having, somehow, found
his way up the golden stair to St.
Peter): “Phew! My goodness, why
don’t you have a lift?”
[“Hop.”— 28/1/’93.]
A “risen” Southern family of studied
tastes [writes Sappho Smith] are awaiting
the arrival of an English mail-boat in a
cold perspiration—the family, not the
steamer. On board is a lady relative who
dress she would wear on her arrival, so
as to lessen the worry of identification-
Here is the description : “The dress is red.
with dotted about it little groups, in shades
of blue and yellow, of kangaroos, emus,
lions, unicorns and true-lovers’ knots!” The
family are praying earnestly that the boat
may arrive long after dark. [lB/2/’93.]
THE ELIXIR OF BEAUTY.
“Fat women are not only better-looking but
younger-] ooking than their slim sisters. The advice
I would give a thin woman for wrinkles would be
a two-word sentence, ‘Get fat.’ And if a fat girl
asked for advice I should tell her to keep quiet.
Women wear themselves out.” (This extract from
somebody’s letter in some newspaper or other
might be gracefully expressed in a drawing-room
song.)
Go, pretty maiden, get you fat,
And witch us with your graces!
O ! emulate the parlor cat
Who purrs in cosy places.
The woman bent on looking fresh
And young at eight-and-twenty
Must cultivate sufficient flesh
To suit the cognoscenti.
Chokus.
Go, pretty maid, be not afraid
Of cream in moderation:
A life of peace, icith lots of grease,
Is beauty's sure salvation.
Their praises to a scraggy waist
Let foolish fledglings stutter;
The man of more enlightened taste
Prefers you soft as butter.
A morbid sentimental miss
Breaks often out in pimples,
But she who tempts the ardent kiss
Is dotted o’er with dimples.
Go, pretty maiden, laugh and sleep,
Whilst sister Martha flurries;
The lines upon her brow are deep
Because, alas ! she worries.
Contentment is the sijlve that gives
A smoothness to complexions,
And Phyllis, plump, for ever lives
In Strephon’s fond affections.
[14/10/’93.]
OUT BACK.
“Duststorms?” queried the old hand, talk-
in°- to the newchum, as a solid-looking bank
of & dust rolled towards them. “Oh, that ain’t
a duststorm —leastways, nothing to speak
o f.” .
Then a pause and a puff. “Now, we did
have a storm last September twelvemonth,
he continued. “I was dam-sinkin’ on Netal-
lie and drivin’ a horse-scoop when it came
on—a cloud like that, only thicker. We
met. Of course, all was darkness. Then
them horses pulled like blazes. We kep’
goin’ up and up. ‘Damn it!’ I says, ‘I never
noticed this bank so steep before.’ Then
we started to go down sharp, at a
trot. Over the scoop goes. Then down
A CONSTANT JOB.
SMITH: “Isn’t that Brasplait who just went by in that carriage? Why, a couple of
years ago, when he kept the engraver’s shop, he hadn’t a penny. How did he
do it — silver?”
R ORINSON: “Oh, no. He made it through writing ‘ln Liquidation’ on the plates of the
gone-bung banks.” [Frank P . Mahony. -25/2/'93.]
and down. ‘Strike me!’ says I, this bank s
high enough to hold water enough for the
whole flamin’ station.” Then we bottomed
it with a jolt. , , T
“Just at that minute the sky cleared. .1
looked back at the cloud still sweeping on,
and stoush me if there wasn’t our tracks
clean over it!" .
“Bad,” the newchum said encouragingly..
“M’yes; but I had the luck to meet it,
you see. If I’d ’a’ been goin’ with it wed
’a’ been flattened out under it like wax
matches under a injun.”
Then the storm, that was only a pretence
at a storm, came on them, and they covered
their heads with their blankets.
RED-BACK.
We sang, not very long ago,
“The world is all a fleeting show
For man’s illusion given.”
Let’s add—the best seats in the show
Are taken up where’er you go,
And, if the truth some people know.
It’s much the same in I-leaven.
[lO/6/’93.]
P. LUFTIG.


A Wittner Rubber Boot
plus a "branded” Guarantee
Every Rubber Boot sold by Wittners is
branded with the name “Wittner,” which
is the greatest guarantee that it is the best
Rubber Boot that you can possibly buy.
The Rubber Boot illustrated at the right
is the equal of any of the best imported
lines, and has been TESTED and found
correct in every specification that Wittners
rigidly insist upon.
This is a super quality KNEE BOOT, specially
designed for the man who is exceptionally heavy
on his footwear. It is made from extra heavy, pure
live rubber and has thick, tough-wearing red Para
gum rubber soles and heels. The leg portion has as
a basis- strong 2-ply laminated rubber, specially
graded at points of strain to 4-ply and 5-ply, abso-
lutely defying wear and the entry of water. The
heels have strong stiffeners which definitely prevent
sagging, and there are also special inner soles of
rubber composition, which make walking comfortable
even over the: roughest Of stony ground. Tough-
wearing canvas friction-lined throughout and shaped
on a full-fitting last; made to standard knee height.
The best Rubber Boot you can buy, guaranteed by
Wittners under their policy of “Fair Wear or
Another Pair.” When ordering by post, quote
21788. Men’s sizes, 5 to 12, 25/-; Youths’ sizes,
2 to 4, 22/6.
Post free to any address in the Commonwealth.
POST
FREE
ANYWHERE.
w
ŵ
ALL KINDS OF RUBBER BOOTS FOR THE FAMILY.
Children’s from 8/11; Women’s from 11/6; Men’s from 12/11.
COMPLETE RUBBER
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
This catalogue contains everything in Rubber
Footwear, at prices which defy competition.
When ordering Rubber Boots, please quote
number, but when giving size, mention size
worn in ordinary footwear —do not make
allowances. These boots are made on excep-
tionally big-fitting shapes.
ALSO WITTNER’S CATA-
LOGUE of “Family Footwear”
Here is the greatest Budget of Values you can
possibly obtain! “Comfort” Boots and Shoes
for men, women and children, all post free
throughout Australia—send for a copy to-day.
You will save money on every item you
order from it!
MAIL ORDERS TO 45-47 LEEDS STREET, FOOTSCRAY, VIC
CITY BRANCH: 234-236 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ik
m.
m
“ I wouldn’t miss
this night-cap for
worlds... McCollum’s
certainly puts me right
till the morning! ”
(DTallums
(Ohisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD., Cairns.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO.. Hobart.
THE TROTTING HORSE
BY ERIC LOWE.
MINE’S beer,” said Dicky Twice, and
added mournfully: “It always was.
Whisky’s no good.”
Mr. Richard Richards had reached the
state which in any other man would be
called mellow; but his three companions
sitting round the little table were all
agreed that the term could never apply to
Dicky Twice. The more Dicky enjoyed
himself the less he showed it, and at the
moment he had settled comfortably into a
deep gloom.
Dicky lifted his mug and emptied it at
one mighty draught. His eyes had a far-
away look, and he shook his head sadly.
“I could name scores of ’em to prove it,”
he said vaguely. “Scores and scores of ’em.
But the saddest case I ever knew was Sam
Bell —him and his trotting horse.
“I knew Sam Bell when he was a boy at
school, and his great ambition was to be
a prizefighter. His desk was pasted over
with pictures of Jack Johnson and Burns
and all the old ’uns, though so far as
Sam went he couldn’t fight his way out of
a paper bag. Not that he wasn’t game,
mind you. He’d fight anything any time;
but the end was always the same. It was
no different in the army. Sam joined up
with the Light Horse, and I met him at
Rafa after the Armistice. By this time
he knew he couldn’t fight—when he was
sober—but as! soon as he got a few whiskies
across his chest he’d get notions again,
and go from regiment to regiment trying
to back himself to fight anything on two
legs. I’ve known him have as many as
five fights on his hands for one morning—
two Enzedders, a military policeman, a
padre and a Soudanese sanitary man—and
Sam without an idea that he’d ever said
a word the night before.
“When Sam got drunk, which was as
often as he could, he did the job properly,
and for a mate he picked up a disreputable
little runt name of Lane, an outed jockey.
Christmas Day, 1918, found Sam on top
of the pole of a bell-tent, sending out a
sheep-dog that didn’t exist round a mob
of wethers that weren’t there. ‘Hoo! Hoo!
Hoo!’ he was yelling. ‘Get away back,
you piebald son of a she dust-storm.’
Waving his hat and swearing like a
bullocky when some of his imaginary mob
broke away, and Jockey Lane squatting
at the bottom of the tent with a loaded
rifle, offering to blow the lights out of any-
, one who interfered with Sam until the last
damn sheep was yarded!
“Sam had one thing in his favor —he
loved horses. He knew horses and under-
stood them —could train ’em, ride ’em,
drive ’em. He was the best man in a
trotting sulky I’ve ever seen, and could win
good races with horses no other driver
could belt out of a jog.
“After the war we went different ways—
I out west, Sam up Newcastle way, where
he scratched up a half-baked trotting
stable. I heard of him from time to time,
but had lost track of him for a while,
when he suddenly turned up at Windy
Plains, the day before the local show, with
a new trotting sulky and a craggy-hipped
fiddle-headed horse.
“I was secretary, and Sam came to the
tent where I had my office to enter his
horse in the trot that was the biggest
feature in the two-days Show and Gym-
khana. He seemed very pleased to see me,
and explained that he had done fairly well
lately, one way and another, and was on
more or less of a holiday, travelling round
the western shows on the chance of
picking up something decent to add to his
stable. The horse he was driving, he told
me, was no class at all, just a handy old
plug to drive around, which he entered in
any of the local trots ‘just out of courtesy
to the committee.’ I was a bit doubtful of
Sam’s yarn. I didn’t quite see him throwing
entrance money away ‘just out of courtesy,’
so before the start i strolled down to have
a look at the horse. Sam was driving him
up and do-rim at the back of the ground—
warming him up, he called it, and Lord
knows he looked as if he needed warming!
Just then two dogs started to box-on
almost under the sulky, and Sam jumped
in his seat and looked round, his arms
tightening on the reins; and as the old
horse felt the extra strain come on the
bit, he lengthened his stride —just like a
trotter that knows his job. Clip-clop,
clip-clop, clip-clop—only half a dozen
strides, but if there’d been auy betting on
that race I’d have backed Sam with all
there was in my pocket.
“Well, the event was a great surprise—
to me, at any rate. The winner was a big
raw-boned bay called Bonny Charlie, rather
like Sam’s moke, fiddle-head and all; and
his owner-driver used a spider, the only
one bar Sam’s in the race. Most of the
other horses were trotted in saddle, and
one old wire-whiskered cocky drove a
home-made contraption—a cross between a
spring dray and a perambulator-—that fell
to pieces half-way round. Sam finished
last, but didn’t seem worried about it —
said he might have got a bit closer, but
didn’t want to push the old horse too much,
as he hadn’t a chance of winning.
“I thought there was something fishy
about the business and racked my brains
to discover what Sam was up to, but no
glimmer came until later.
“Sam had had a spot or two during the
day, and that night he seemed started on
a regular bender; yet he puzzled me —he
wasn’t drinking with his usual gusto. To
strangers he appeared gloriously sozzled,
but to me, who knew him and his capacity,
there was something insincere about it,
and when ho started to skite about his
trotting horses, the light dawned, and I
passed the word round amongst the boys
to do nothing rash. I felt sorry for Sam,
and sort of mean for spoiling his game;
but, then, I had to live in Windy
Plains, and the boys would never have
forgiven me if I’d kept my mouth shur.
So, when Sam, after a shrewd approach,
wanted to back his horse against anything
they could dig up, they grinned at him,
and shook their heads —all, that is, except
Malcolm Twist, owner and driver of
Bonny Charlie. Either he thought Sam
was too drunk to know what he was doing,
or else he was so puffed up at winning
the local trot that he thought nothing
foaled could beat Bonny Charlie. Anyway
he backed his horse for a tenner.
“I went to Sam’s room in the morning,
to let him know I’d dropped to his little
game, and got the surprise of my life.
Sam was sitting up in bed, looking as if
he’d sell out cheap.
“ ‘Dicky,’ he said, ‘was I very bad last
night?’
“ ‘No,’ I said. ‘Nothing out of the
ordinary.’
“ ‘Did I do anything very foolish ?’
“ ‘No.’
“‘Didn’t back myself to fight anyone?’
“ ‘No.’
“ ‘Thank God for that!’
“Sam lay back in the bed and lit a
cigarette. ‘Dicky,’ he said, ‘you’ve taken a
great load off my mind. I’m sure of myself
now— l can have a drink in safety, without
making any damnfool bets.’
“ ‘But, Sam,’ I said, ‘you did make a
bet—with Malcolm Twist.’
“ ‘Heavens, man ! What bet ?’ He sat up
in bed and stared at me like a man who’s
seen a vision.
“ ‘You backed your horse,’ I said, ‘for
a tenner, to trot Bonny .Charlie.’
“Poor Sam nearly wept. ‘That was the
only bet? Say it was the only bet!’ he
wailed.
“For a moment I was tempted, but I
said firmly: ‘Yes, Sam, that was the only
one.’
“He fished a wad of notes from under
the mattress, and handed me two fivers.
“ ‘Here, Dicky,’ he said, ‘go and pay him.
That old-timer of mine couldn’t trot a
plough-horse.’ Then bitterly: ‘lt’s not
that I mind losing a tenner so much, but
this just proves that I’m as hopeless as ever
—l’ll never be different, Dicky, never.’
“Well, when Sam got outside a few
whiskies that night, and again wanted to back
his horse against Bonny Charlie, he was
nearly killed in the rush; and we made a
night of it. There was no doubt about
Sam Bell this time; he was pickled to the
eyebrows. And so was Malcolm Twist;
he’d bet a hundred on his horse.
“As I had thirty quid on Bonny Charlie
myself, I was first round to Sam next
morning. I didn’t know, you see, just how
big Sam’s roll of notes was. He hadn’t
even taken off his clothes, and _ when. I
came in he was staring at the business side
of a hairbrush—thinking it was a hand-
mirror—and wondering whether to shave
himself or give the job to a barber. He
was still very drunk, but he nearly hit the
roof when I told him about the bets he
had made.
“ ‘Dicky,’ he pleaded, ‘this can’t go on.
You’re my friend. You know my failing.
You can’t let them take me down like this.
Go out and explain—call the bets off.’
“I felt very sorry for Sam, but I thought
it would all be for his good in the end,
so I told him that such measures were
impossible. He’d made the bets, and he’d
have to stand by them.
“ ‘AH right,’ he said, like a man who’s
made up his mind to die, ‘I know I’ve got
no chance, but I’ll drive the race.’
“I didn’t like the way he said it—he
was a bit too resigned. I remembered how
the old horse had stepped out the first time
I saw him. And then I caught an evil
glint in Sam’s eye—and I could have
kicked myself for a double-ended fool to
bet at all. However-, nothing more could be
done with Sam; lie was determined to
give the boys a bit of fun for their money
even if he did make a fool of himself and
his horse.
“The race was to start at ten o’clock,
and it was then nearly nine, so I rushed
(“The Trotting Horse,” continued on p. 50.)


City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society, now in its fifty-fourth
year, issued the other day the Report and Balance-sheet to its 70,000
constituents.
The Revenue and Expenditure Account and the Balance-sheet
detailed the operations of the Society for the year 1931, but the Directors
in the Report itself to the Policy-holders refrained from commenting on
the figures in view of the present position of Australia.
The Board gave the matter much deliberation, and the result was
that the chairman, Mr. George Crowley, whose qualifications to speak
on financial matters surely need no stressing, was asked to prepare the
Report, which he did.
It was intended as a clarion call to Australia, and New South
Wales in particular.
Copy of the Report was sent along in the usual course to Sydney s
daily papers.
The “Herald” dismissed the Report in a couple of disparaging lines.
The “Telegraph” certainly gave a quarter of a column to the contents,
but the other papers practically ignored the matter. Pressure of space
no doubt.
The Directors are free to admit that there are at present much
more serious matters for Australians than the question of the imminent
danger to Australia by our neglect to realise the issue.
There is, for instance, the question of Phar Lap’s condition. There
is also the mystery of Lindbergh’s baby, and there was also grave anxiety
as to what, position Mr. Ball would occupy at the Bridge Opening,
whether he would be with the “B’s” or the “A’s.
In spite of this, however, the City Mutual Directors feel that it
is a matter of momentous importance to the people of Australia, and New
South Wales in particular, that Mr. Crowley’s views should be placed
before them, and the Society has decided that it will be money well worth
spending to publish the Directors’ Report as an advertisement, which it
does herewith.
J. G. TAYLOR, Secretary.
The Directors herewith present the
Financial Statement and Balance-sheet for
the year ended 3i st December, 1931.
For the first time in the City Mutual s
fifty-three years’ history the details which
ordinarily interest Life Assurance Policy-
holders, such as new business, lapses, re-
newals, claims, expense rate, bonuses and
the like, are devoid of their usual signifi-
cance in view of Australia’s present plight.
A reduced volume of new business, a
slackening in renewal premiums, an in-
crease in loans on Policies and Surrender
Values are of small moment compared
with the vital question: “Is all well with
Australia?” The City Mutual alone
amongst Australian large life offices con-
fines its business to the Commonwealth.
The very breath of the nostrils of a Life
Assurance Institution is the prosperity of
the country in which it transacts its busi-
ness.
On that everything hinges.
Thoughtless optimists, with the wish
father to the thought, tell us that we are
well out of the wood already. We are
not well out of the wood by a long way.
We are a debtor nation. Our debt is
enormous, over eleven hundred millions.
The interest bill is crushing.
Even if the exchange were normal, it
would be difficult enough to find the inter-
est which Australia has to pay overseas
year by year. But the exchange is not
normal, and it may not come back to
normal for quite a long while.
SITUATION NOT HOPELESS.
The situation is by no means hopeless,
but it calls for a vigorous determined
policy, on the part of Australia. Above
alh it calls for absolute unanimity and
wholeheartedness by all sections of the
community.
It is high time Australia looked matters
fairly in the face. These continued defici-
encies, State and Federal, cannot go on
indefinitely. That is certain.
In other crises—and like all countries
Australia has had its share—we felt
reasonably certain that in a year or two
a return of bounteous seasons would solve
4th March, 1932.
our difficulties. These mainly arose
through floods, and droughts and general
over-confidence.
But it is a vastly different position in
which we find ourselves to-day. Only by
a general spirit of genuine endeavor on
the part of Australia as a whole can we
emerge from our troubles, That, too, is
certain.
RECENT LEGISLATION IN NEW SOUTH
WALES.
One is reluctantly forced to the belief
that the existing administration in Aus-
tralia’s oldest State is deliberately endeav-
oring to bring about a condition of chaos
for some sinister motive hard to conceive.
The thrifty person, whose savings have
gone into real property, sees his life's
work perilously close to confiscation owing
to the existing stupid and ill-conceived
moratorium.
The Life Offices and Trustee Institu-
tions, which have invested their constitu-
ents’ funds in mortgages, thereby assisting
tens of thousands of people, find their
security rendered practically nugatory for
an indefinite period.
The trader, through being compelled to
pay higher wages for shorter hours, sees
his business being lost to other States.
The confidence of the whole people is
being sapped by the daily dread of what is
next going to happen.
THE WRITTEN CONTRACT.
That a proud State like New South
Wales should tolerate for one single day
the revolting suggestion of its present
Premier that “the sanctity of the written
contract is an iniquitous condition” is an
indelible blot on its honor.
The one bright feature in the whole
wretched business is that a majority of
the Society’s constituents have been loyal
to their instincts of honesty. And, to their
eternal honor, be it said, this class repre-
sents in the bulk the wage-earning class
and the small borrower.
For more than half a century the City
Mutual and kindred institutions in times
of stress have never needed a moratorium
to help their embarrassed constituents.
Nor do they now.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Chairman.
across to Malcolm Twist with the news
that Sam had decided to drive the race.
Malcolm was in a bad way; working hard
for an hour, it was all we could do to
get him fit to sit in the saddle of a spider,
and he was no more capable of driving a
race than of flying.
“A little before ten Bill Downey and
I took charge of Sam. He was too muzzy
to harness up, so we did it for him, and
had everything hitched and ready. Some of
the hoys did the same for Malcolm, and
we were only waiting for Oliver Bradfield
to come down to the starting post.
“The crowd were in great humor; they
were packed along the rails, jostling and
coo-eeing. They’d christened the horse
Malcolm Twist was driving Boney and the
other Coffin-head. Sam was cursing us all
for thieves and robbers, with a joy that
made me shudder; but we got him into the
sulky at last. He seemed inclined, to
sway a little, and we were a bit anxious
about his staying put; but we hadn’t much
time to worry, for just then Oliver Bradfield
yelled out to come up for the start, and
in another minute or two away they went.
“They hadn’t gone once around when I
knew it was a walk-over. Old Coffin-Head
was plugging along about a length behind
Boney, and the crowd were laughing and
shouting insulting things to Sam. and
singing out to Malcolm to come away and
get it over.
“Well, first it seemed to me that Malcolm
was looking very worried; then it seemed to
me tbat Boney couldn't come away, and as
they drove past the stand I saw Sam Bell
grinning and knew it was all over bar shout-
ing. He hung behind until they came round
for the last time; then I saw his arms
tighten, and old Coffin-Head took hold of the
bit and laid back his ears. Clip-clop,clip-clop,
faster and faster. Clip-clop, clip-clop, his
stride growing longer and longer. They drew
level as the spiders whirled past the stand,
the old horse’s legs working like pistons;
then Sam Bell turned to Malcolm - Twist
with a lurch that nearly upset the sulky.
‘Well, good-bye, Boney!’ he said, and came
away to win by half a furlong/’
;J: :f: *
Dicky Twice sat back and stared dolefully
at his empty mug, and one of the other men
said:
“Whisky or no whisky, I reckon your Sam
Bell got the best of that deal.”
“Do you?” said Mr. Richards. “Well, he
didn’t. You see, thirty pounds was more’n
I could afford to lose at that time. Sam
Bell won the race all right. But I saic to
it that he drove the wrong horse.”
A Nig'ht in Play.
the story of a game with tragedy woven into it, by
DAVID WORTH.
THEY are always at the same table. I
can recall only one occasion in some
three or four years when they were not
all present at lunch together. On that occa-
sion the old man was absent; and the other
three seemed a trifle subdued. They did not
1 day their customary chess. But the old
man was present next day (wearing a black
tie, I noticed), since when there has been
no break in the routine of that little group.
Their table is across the room from that
which has come to be reserved for me, so
that in the clatter of crockery and hum of
conversation around me their voices are
lost: I have never heard them speak. But
time has familiarised their actions: I find
myself interpreting, a gesture, a lifting of a
lip, a 1 crinkling, profile that denotes a smile;
I triumph in .sympathy when young Harry
Prince (that cannot be his name except by
coincidence, for I know nothing of him; but
I could not fully enjoy their company until
I had allotted suitable names to' each, and
much puzzling , did ,it entail >before I was
satisfied)—when the - boy lifts his piece,
swoops with . it. like a raiding Assyrian .on
the .unprotected’ square, and, leaning* back,
regards his defeated, opponent and his two
companions with a “There!. If-you-want-to-
learn-chess-come-to-me” grin, my pulses glow,'
my muscles tense, as if mine had been the
strategy,, as if mine had been- that culminat-
ing, devastating move. I love the boy.
They take . their .beatings well. A little
discussion—of the move that might have been
made here, of an- overlooked opportunity
there, a little chaffing of the boy, for his
eagerness—and the chessmen are put away,
or another game begun. Old Pooley (as I
like to call -him); —hhe.old man will always
come back for another game. He loves the
battle of wits; his I should think is the
subtler strategy, the more complex combina-
tions, the craftier play. But although he
lias many victories, he appears to suffer many
more defeats.
Clearly these two —young Prince and old
Pooley—are the outstanding players. Potter
(to give him my imaginary label, and who
is, I should think, in the electrical trade—
probably a branch manager ,or at least a
trusted executive- of : fair standing) and
Holmes (whom I can imagine in the estate
business —possibly as a principal—with a
younger and more spirited partner, I should
think) ; these two take their lickings philo-
sophically, and seem equally content as spec-
tators to sit back with their pipes and
through the smoke-haze which _ they make
follow appreciatively the tactics of the
other two.
The depression has left its mark on all
four—on whom has it not? The young
fellow’s trousers haven’t always the aggres-
sive crease which formerly was inevitable;
his hat could do with blocking; there are
lines around his mouth too deep for thirty
years. But his laugh—the only vocal
acquaintanceship I have made —is as brave
as ever; the light in his eyes is even brighter.
Potter and Holmes have let themselves go
shabby; last week Holmes’s trousers did not
match his coat. Potter’s hat has a stained
and faded band, and he walks heavily.
But the old man shows the greatest change.
I used to think he was in a drapery business
—tailoring perhaps?—no, most probably
indenting cottons. He was a meticulous
dresser for a man of his age, and smoothly
shaved. The white cuffs were evident, and
a slim gold chain drew attention to—shall
we say a record of good living? I have
watched the shoulders stoop; folds of aged
skin replace the smooth cheeks; grey patches
invade the once neat little beard. Often, as
his head has been bent over the board, I have
seen his two friends mourn for him.
What is his story? Investments, I think,
swept away—and a daughter (a son would
have lunched with him) perhaps mothering
his grandchildren on a sorely-burdened farm.
Some months ago I noticed that the watch-
chain and seals were absent; nor has he
worn them since. He brings with him a
sample-case which rests always near his
feet —perhaps to hide his boots, which are
cracking.
One day last week, as I said, he did not
come, and even young Prince’s smile seemed
tired. But he set out the board and pieces
next day and played a stubborn game with
trembling fingers.
The black tie accentuates the rustiness
of his clothes, the untrimmed hair and beard
draw attention to his collar and cuffs.
I have read that the (I think) frigate-
bird, when old and able no longer to soar in
the high sky, is left by its fellows to stand
and perish, its feathers dropping one by one,
till, defeated by life, it falls and disinteg-
rates. Watching the old man now, quiver-
ing claw advanced to act, poised uncertainly,
then withdrawn for further thought, I am
reminded of that crumbling bird waiting for
the great defeat that draws so slowly on.
The old man is crumbling fast: his feath-
ers drop as every day brings more defeats.
In his business the young men are fighting
hard; only his duty to his women spurs him
on. And now he wears a black tie.
Young Prince sits patiently, his next move
known in advance. He has youth’s eager-
ness and impatience well under control to-
day ; he refuses to meet Potter’s eye. _ The
old man moves his bishop, then sits in an
agony of uncertainty. The boy pretends to
study the problem which the old man’s move
has set him, then moves with well-simulated
anxiety. Old Pooley moves again; his move-
ments and rigidities are eloquent of the tussle
from which he anticipates victory—a sweet
triumph after the morning’s struggle and
defeats. One can see clearly that his recent'
victories at the chess-board supply the only
warmth and sunshine in the cold blackness
of defeat which has long since overwhelmed
his business endeavors.
Potter and:Holmes lean forward to watch
, the boy’s next move. - Potter smokes furi-
ously when, young Prince moves his knight,
but he fails to catch the player’s eye. The
old man rubs his hands, and with little hesi-
. tation runs his queen down the board:
“Check.” I - can see his Tips frame * the ■
wordi his heart exult - with' the coming
. triumph. The boys looks startled as if
caught in an unexpected-trap. He lifts his
knight, pauses, then moves. The. old man
moves again: “Check.” The boy is hard •
, pressed. He moves the knight again.
Old Pooley’s quivering, claws swoop upon
his queen.
“Mate!”
He leans back, beaming pathetically.
Holmes leans back, too. “Good on you!”
I can imagine him saying to the old man.
“That’s one in the eye for the young
fellow.”
Potter puffs furiously.
Young Prince studies the game. for a
...whije,. then sweeps the pieces off the board.
“You’re too' good for me,” he says. And .
then, reaching for his hat, “Come on; loser
pays for lunch.” ' ,
In his voice, even if I cannot hear his
words, there is life and laughter. But he
will not meet Potter’s eye.
The Men of Eureka.
(A. RECOLLECTION.)
They have gone out the men of Eureka,
One by one they have passed. Now there
is none
Of them left to sit by the fire and talk;
For them life’s journey is over and done.
Digger by digger they marched,
Each man in his order;
As digger by digger they went,
Over the border.
I was a child while still we talked of them,
And when there came one walking lame I ran
To my father, and, my hand in his, cried,
Eager for stories, “Here comes a Eureka
man.”
Digger by digger they marched,
All named in their order,
As digger by digger they went,
Over the border.
And the men wh 0 had been at Eureka
They made me a flag of stars, and gave me
A name, and the name they gave was
Eureka:
“For the child,” they said, “is one of our kin.”
Digger by digger they marched,
Each number in order,
Who digger by digger are gone,
Over the border.
And many a time, with a wooden sword,
I stood, with my father’s kinsman Ross, and
laced
Upon the air with glancing st rokes, while cried
They there, "Well placed—well struck—
Eureka
Digger by digger they marched
Each man in his order,
Who digger by digger are gone,
Over the border.
Now shall I weep them, even as the tribes
Wept those they deemed illustrious, who went
From them for ever, or, far-journeying,
Passed outward from their ken, the seen no
more.
N.s.w.
MARY GILMORE.


£
a
S)W tC
E* '
?! !
Unquestionably we are passing through a difficult
period. What with the Additional Taxation, Dearer
Liquor and Smokes, Reduced Incomes, or perhaps No
Work at all, it is very easy to become despondent.
The situation, however, has to be faced cheerfully,
and the task will be found much easier if care is taken to
see the digestive organs are kept healthy and regular.
It is important to bear in mind that one’s outlook on
life is largely influenced by the condition of the liver,
hence the exhilarating effect of a dose, or, better still, a
course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which stirs that
organ to healthy action,
Dr. Horses
I
ẁ
WORMS
Is Your Child
Affected ?
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
i in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. -The symptoms of this disease
are somewhat variable, but generally they
are so characteristic that no mother need
have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to . the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and biting, and
not infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often disordered,
sometimes relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving
or depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy and foetid, and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleed-
ing of the nostrils and disposition to grind
the teeth during the sleep are other charac-
teristic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the alimentary canal,
and various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the
disordered digestion which they occasion.
Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright, dizzi-
ness, spasmodic movements of the eyelids,
temporary blindness and deafness. General
convulsions are not infrequent in children,
and symptoms strongly resembling “Water
on the Brain” have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion, compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms, but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels, and
do not weaken the system. The .< pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but, on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd.. 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price, 4/- per' packet (six packets 23/-),
post free.
If writing, please mention “The Bulletin.”
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers. N
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521BB, G.P.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—12 months, 30/-; 6 months. 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ẃ
0
0
0°
e
V"
i
S 6
i\ e
* *
*•
c v c ;
.• ', v. ,
V*


FOR THE MAN WHO IS TOO BUSY
TO HAVE BATTERY TROUBLE
i %
..
%
'
m
m
m
f
: "x
Willard Batteries
Give the Utmost in Dependable
Uninterrupted Battery Service
Who wants battery trouble? Surely not the busy business
man. Surely not the doctor. SURELY NOT THE WOMAN
DRIVER. “Time out” is costly. Delays are most annoying.
Herein lies the fundamental reasons why you*ll End millions
of Willard Batteries in cars everywhere—Willards give the
utmost in dependable uninterrupted battery service! Twenty-
nine years of battery making has given Willard the ability
to produce genuine battery quality. Willard Men have the
“know how” and this is why Willard Batteries have won
such widespread public preference.
When you buy a Willard you get just this —First, a good
battery—the best that can be made; then Willard Men help
you select the right electrical size battery for your car; and
they follow up with a service that gives you everything that
has been built into that battery at the factory. Choose a
Willard and be SURE!
Willard
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
STORAGE
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott,
Sydney.
Limited,
■
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
•/ -
ẅ
