

#
fr
U
%
V..
o
o
O
I L
1 LJ
Ol
D
d
ď
For range and richness of tone ... for fidelity
of reproduction ... for dependable, trouble-
free radio reception . . . and for the greatest
value at the lowest price, the Radiola is with-
out equal.
The Radiola 55E gives interstate reception
without aerial or earth, while interference and
noise have been entirely eliminated. The sta-
tion you want can be tuned in in a few seconds
without overlapping.
Fidelity of tone is retained uniformly through-
out the entire frequency range, while undis-
torted volume has been developed far beyond
the usual standards.
Never before in its eighteen years of leadership
has Amalgamated Wireless offered such super-
lative performance and value in radio as in the
Radiola 55E. It is everywhere acclaimed as
Australia’s finest broadcast receiver. This re-
markable Radiola, equipped with Radiotrons,
is priced at £37/10/-.
Easy terms available.
"Jke 'FbK/ SERIES
4
i: ■
«o
ft ft'ft
KftS®
'■■"
-"ftv
m
V,
*\*
KKt
Vs/
a
Pr. du t
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) ltd.
The attractive walnut cabinet is of distinctly
modern design with a beautiful Hand-rubbed finish.
The Radiola 55E uses six valves including rectifier.
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
The Bulletin
lisJaMA'fKodt^ Paga.B
Vol. 53.—N0. 2734.
Wednesday, July 6, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,"
Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, n,
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin, j j as
My Name
Mv Address
S.B. 132 ..
it
ORIGINAL. READABLE. FREE FROM
PROPAGANDA. THE MOST INFORMA-
TIVE AND UP-TO-DATE NEWS.
“Our purchasing- power, our goodwill and our
brains are not being used. .. .there are towers of
babel.... Sailing directions for normal conditions do
not govern sound seamanship in a hurricane....
merely to see'a little further than is common is not
to see. far enough.... Common sense has failed.”
FOR AUSTRALIANS WHOSE
BRAINS ARE FREE.
PRICE Is. 6d. EACH. ALL BOOKSHOPS,
ALL STATES, OR POST FREE FROM
THE BUREAU OF ECONOMICS,
BRISBANE.
“On the creation of credit the average person has
as much knowledge as the aboriginal on the creation
of life, and as much superstition.”
Monetary Policy and the Practicable Alternative
to Inflation -and Douglasism.
Here is light without heat.
“CREDIT”
By J. B. BRIGDEN. Price I/6
Special Announcement
to Nationa/Advertisers
Or mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily N ewspaper
;■ I
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only 1 asmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179. - ■
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building-
Elizabeth Street.
nrnifi
|T jy l f3TT?iI
d
Cleanses and
Protects Your Skin
Unsurpassed in purity, it
contains medicinal proper-
ties which are soothing and
healing to the skin and
are a protection against
skin troubles.
Price 1/- |
Sample free. Address: I
R. Towns & Co., B
Sydney, N.S.W. I
ď
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIKFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visitirtg London
should read the “British Australian ami
Now Zealander,” Od. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are Cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can sec the home papers.’
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without: charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
bo obtained at the Australian Advertisin'’'
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney or
403-05 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane ‘Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
it follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
The National Sporting
Weekly,
tlx n.Z. Referee
is the official i(rgan of most of
the principal fphorts bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Jennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to—
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to. use '‘The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in yotir Victorian campaign, arid no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have,
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only, goes
into the home hut reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in. its columns
is assured of dependable reader valye.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Kates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Xr i •
*s/un£S&Uz4, Stupe,
*'Jc\£&n 7zdid, rtveeS foX
t&C JjZcrLtsns; ZFrCJZLs.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
The Red Page
đ
Predestined Best-sellers
Less than 50 years ago the English were
practically the only people who wrote
seriously on sport, except for occasional
French, Italian or German works, which
were largely nature-studies, on trout-fishing,
field-shooting and the like. Now the whole
civilised world has followed England’s lead,
and a Czecho-Slovakian is as likely to
write authoritatively about Association
football as a resident of Woolwich, and
most of the best books on tennis and
boxing come from the U.S.A. instead of
the nation which gave these sports their
modern form. Australia is the only country
which has turned out champions in a
number of directions—cricket, boxing, lawn
tennis, swimming, rowing, Rugby football
and race-riding—and failed to produce a
single book which demands a place in every
sportsman’s library. What makes it all
the more mysterious is that books about
sport, even where they are only mediocre,
command big sales, not only in their
country of origin, but all over the world.
They have a biblical universality of appeal.
1 he six reviewed below*, for example, are
from London publishers, but all have had
American sales, and some are selling well
on the Continent in translations.
Shooting in Russia
Turgenev’s A Spfi-ri'ski&uU Sketches
(Dent, 3s. 6d.), is not much goncernhd with
the technique of gun or working
dogs. He kills hardly anything, but gives
himself up to the enjoyment of the beauties
of his native land, which are described in
a series of lyric passages.
A morning in July. Who but the sportsman
knows how soothing it is to wander at daybreak
among the underwood? The print of your feet lies
in a green line on the grass, white with dew. You
-part the drenched bushes; you are met by a rush
of the warm fragrance stored up in the night; the
air is saturated with the fresh bitterness of worm-
wood. the honey-sweetness of buckwheat and clover ;
in the distance a wood stands like a wall, and
glows and glistens in the sun; it is still fresh,
hut already the approach of heat is felt. The
head is faint and dizzy from the excess of sweet
scents.
The book is, of course, pre-revolution, and
the country folk—the arrogant young
princes, the crafty horse-copers, the grim
kulaks and the distressingly humble peas-
ants—have gone for ever; but all else is
the same. Anyone, in any country, who
has gone shooting as much for what he will
see, smell and hear as for what he is
likely to bag, will understand his point of
view.
The Sporting Aristocrat
Sir Alfred Pease, Bart, author of Ha 1 } a
Century of Sport (Bod-ley Head, 8s. 6d.).
is a type that only England produces, and
that is becoming rare even there. From
his first meet, of winch he has a vivid
recollection, though it took place when he
was six, and he is now 75, he has been fox-
hunting, drag-hunting, steeplechasing,
covert-shooting, grouse-shooting, big-game
shooting, beagling, polo-playing, and deer-
stalking, and talking, thinking, and dream-
ing about such things. His stvle is that
of a veteran reminiscing in a Service Club:
About 1877 we formed the first Polo Club at
Cambridge. We numbered about a dozen members.
The prime mover was “Bill” Ellis, I have forgotten
ins initials, and among the other mimes 1 remember
;7 n ' %*»«<?>% Hey gate. Hugh Eitzwilliam, “B”
Haig 1. Carmichael, R. Leymann, Barnard and
helsall. W e had great, fun.
Such men have two distinguishing marks:
an enormous circle of friends and acquaint-
ances. all ot whom receive uncritical
approval, if not affection, and a contempt
jor any race which is so inhuman as to
Kul animals for sport on different lines
from those in vogue in England.
The Swiss have a most detestable system of
dosing a canton for, say, five to seven years against
(hooting chamois. , They then open it for a week
or two, when the mountains are literally swarmim>-
\vith rifles and guns , No foreigner is allowed to
shoot one; but Rauch said, “Come with me when
it is open and you can use my rifle,” I declined,
having no wish to partake in those butcheries or
to witness them.
But he is a grand old specimen despite his
little vanities and inconsistencies, and his
book is a mine of information about life
as it was enjoyed by the sheltered classes
in the Victorian era.
Whale-hunting.
Harpoon, by Henry Ferguson (Cape, 7s.
(id.), deals with whale-chasing in the Ant-
arctic; an activity which is undertaken as
a business and practised as a sport. The
men who go down to the sea in whale-
chasers are chiefly Finns and Norwegians,
with a sprinkling of “hard cases” from other
European countries and Australia, A
whaling fleet is the
seafarer’s Foreign
Legion, There are
some descriptions
of fights—anyone
can buy a fight, at
any time of the
day or night on a whaler—which are hard
to beat for terse vividness.
The Sea Pig charged furiously. But the Gentle-
man- neatly sidestepped his rush and drove his left
to the pit of the stomach. His face green, the
1 ig groaned. As he doubled up the Australian
crossed with a stinging right to the jaw. Three
tunes his right flashed, driving the Canadian’s head
back until the whites of his eyes showed. The
end was sudden. Missing with a right swing, the
.Sea Pig presented an excellent, opening. Left and
right crashed on his jaw. He sagged at the knees,
staggered, sought to clinch; a left swing flew to
his stomach and he flung forward on his shoulder,
twisted, writhed and lay crumpled on the concrete
vanquished, humiliated, a sorry piece of Weedin'-
humanity in the midst of excited men of half ;i
dozen nationalities.
1 he author is a born phrasemaker. What
could be better than “The harsh miserere
of the white wind”? And he supplies some
unexpected information, as, for example,
that the Norwegians, whom he considers
the best sailors, consider the British the
worst among maritime nations.
Golf Made to Look Easy
The Perfect Golfer, by H. M. Wethered
(Methuen, 7s. 6d.), and Moments With
Golfing Masters, by R. H. K. Brownine
(Methuen, 3s. 6d.), are explained by their
titles “Golf,” said someone about the
daughter of the firstnamed author, “cannot
possibly be as easy as she makes it look.”
t he same might be said about the hundred-
of text-books which pour from the London
and New York presses year bv year, and
demonstrate by diagrams how,'say, Bobby
Jones “pitches for the top of the flag.'”
1 he enthusiastic dud learns the trick in his
arm-chair at home, goes to the course, and
either misses altogether or puts his ball
into the rough on the far side of the
green, as usual. The same with the “heads-
man stroke, starting the swing in the
dragging Gene Sarazen style, “hitting with
the heel of the hand,” and ah the rest,
These books make golf seem the simplest
of games, whereas it is one of the most
difficult, and that may be why all golfers
ollr them. Mr. Wethered considers
Bobby Jones the Perfect Champion and
bt. Andrew’s the Perfect Links; or, rather,
ou can look on St, Andrew’s as you
would on Lord’s, on Hovlake as you would
on tlie Oval.”
Minnie Yachting
It is no passing craze like., rninnie golf
Model yacht racing has been established
for many years in England; the Model
i acht, Racing Association of North
America has 20 clubs affiliated to it; and
Sweden, Germany; France. Latvia, Belgium
and Holland all have flourishing clubs.
In the British Dominions’ and Colonies a certain
amount of model yachting takes place. Durban,
•South Africa, has a model yacht dub which sails
?t ocea « Beach. Australia and New Zealand each
nave a few clubs.
Model Sailing Craft, by W. J. Daniels
and H. B. Tucker (Chapman and Hall
255.), is a history of model-making and
racing which begins with the craft, found
in the tombs of ancient Egypt, says a few
words about the Church' 'ships' of the
Middle Ages, (there arc two fine photo-
graphs of the famous silver model of “The
Golden Hind ), mentions the models made
b> the I rench prisoners of the Napoleonic
Wars, and so reaches the present-day. when
models are built with the scientific precision
of ocean-going ships. In building a modpl
yacht, real yacht practice is followed in ali
respects; and so, in this book, we find
chapter headings, such as “On Systems,, of
Designing,” “Wetted Surface Calculations,”
“Metacentres,” “Bilge Curves,” “Simpson’s
Rule and so on. It is the first complete
compendium, with all the nacessarv formula;,
on the subject of small-boat building that
has ever been offered to the public, and it
also contains a mass of information of
use and interest to all sailing men. . The
chapter on cutting, making, bending and
stretching sails, as a case in point, gets into
fi\e or six thousand words nearly every-
thing that, the average harbor yachtsman
needs to know on the subject.
RED PAGE.
Utopia, Delimited
Jn Brave New World (Chatto and
H indus; Robertson 'and Mullens; Bs. 9d.)
Aldous Huxley presents his plans and speci-
fications for Utopia. Plato, Sir Thomas
More, Samuel Butler, Wells and Shaw
have all given us their versions, but they
were all more or less ideal. Huxley’s is
real—frightfully real. It is not so much a
dream-world as an exaggeration, a grotesque
but quite recognisable caricature of the
present. Thus in Huxley’s Utopia to be
good is not to be good* in the Platonic
sense but in the modern industrial sense
that is to say, it is to produce things—and
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—An Assurance of Accuracy.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
1 * SEP. ms
Anthony Horderns'
Half Yearly
Genuine
SALE
Your purse will seem to be
endowed with elastic properties
when you see the bargains at
Anthony Horderns’ half-yearly
Genuine Sale. Just as you are sure
of always finding quality and
economy at any time at Anthony
Horderns’, these unusual values
will amaze you! Prices are cut to
the lowest possible levels.... but
Quality is not sacrificed!
■ mm
■
mm m
Mfßgg&m
311313
Wpgfe
ifill
• r?»
W"wi
Si
m
-•-
Beginning Thursday, July 7
mmsm
I
% '-wmmim- J
MANCHESTER BARCAINISED!
1/9 Sheeting now at
Heavyweight White
T will Sheeting at
greatly reduced prices.
Strong, durable quality
that will give much
1/3
hard service.
Widths, ins 54
Prices, yard .... 1/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
yard 1/3 .
63 80
2/3 2/9
Prices,
i/8 r/.i i
9/3 Sheets to go at
White Ready - made
Sheets, in strong
heavyweight Twill.
Neatly-hemmed and
finished. Buy at Sale
6/9
prices and save considerably!
Sizes, ins. 54 x 9063 x 90 80 x 100
Prices, pair 9/3 12/3 15/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices,
pair 6/9 8/11 11/3
SPECIAL !
12/6 Osman Sheets
Celebrated “O s m a n”
Sheets arc ‘also offered
at. substantial savings.
Plain or -Twill weaves.
t
Superior quality. For single and
double beds.
Sizes, ins. .i. 54 xOO SO x 100
Prices, pair 12/0 10/0
Ant lion y .Horderns’ Sale Prices, pair—
-8/11 ' 14/0
1 2/3 “Hordura” Sheets
“II or du r a” (Regd.)
Sheets! Fainbus for
durability. Plain or
Twill weaves. lncom-
10/6
parable values.'' ' Obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’.
Sizes, ins—
-54 xOO 04 xOO 72 x 100 .SO x 100 90 x 10S
Prices, pair—
-12/3 14/9 17/11 20/9 25/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, pair—
-10/0 • 13/815/11 IS/0 22/11
High-grade Pillow Cottons. Specially
priced for clearance. Pull 40in. wide-
Antlionv Horderns’ Sale Prices, yard—
lid. 1/- 1/2 1/3 1/5 1/S 1/11
Pillow Cases 02
d.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each—
Old. 1/- 1/1 1/0 1/8 2/-
1/11 Pillow Cases for
Superior quality Twill Pillow-
Cases. Taped ends. Size.
20 x2O inches. Price, 1/11
Anthony Hordern’s Sale
1/4
Price, each
1/4
Housewife Tidy Pillow Cases. .No
Tapes or Buttons.
Sizes, 20 x 30 inches. Prices—
-1/4 1/(5 1/8 1/10 2/4
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each—
-1/2 1/3 1/6 1/S 2/2
These Values
Lead the Way
to Economy
1/3
Colored
Tow e 1 s
y m
Heavy quality colored Towels. Soft
absorbent quality. Medium si/.e.
18 x 38 inches. Price, each 1/3
Anthony Horderns' Balc Price, each, 1/-
Big Bath Towels for
White Admiralty Turkish Path Towels
with red heading, also colored towels.
Superior quality, large sine, 24 ix 48
inches.
Price each
An thon y Hor d eras’
each
2/11
Sale Price,
-V«
2/6
Kitchen Towelling at
All,-Linen Kitchen Towelling, clean-
drying liard-wearing, specially
reduced. Width, 26in.
Price, yard
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
yard
.. 1/6
Price,
.. 1/1
1/1
New Damask Cloths
Irish Linen Damask Cloths. .Reliable
quality in a range of well assorted
designs. Exceptional value!
Sizes, ins 00 xO6 66 xB4
Prices 13/11 18/11
Anthony Horderns' Sale Prices, each—
-11/0 14/6
Serviettes at 5/9
Irish Linen Serviettes. Many attractive
designs. Size 20 x 20. Price, 0/114:
Sale Price, half dozen 5/0
Size 22 x 22 inches. Prices, half doz.—-
6/114 7/114 10/6 11/3 12/0
Anthony Horderns' Sale Prices, half
dozen—
-5/9 6/114 S/9 9/3 11/3
1/8 Flannelette now
Double Warp Striped Flannel-
ette, 36 inches.
Price, yard 1/8
Sale Price, yard 1/3
1/3
d
s
ś
ŝ
J.S3MO7 3HJ
PRICES FOR YEARSi
■IP
m
Manchester —
First Floor.
We Pay
Carriage.
Sydney’s
Surprise
Value!
26/11 White All-Wool Blankets at
Superior qualitr Alt Wool White Australian Blankets. Full
standard size and weight. Size. 54x78 inches for single beds.
Soft, warm quality. Brice, pair "- U
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair li/U
Double Bed Size, 72 x IX). Price, pair, 39/11. Sale Price, pair, 26/11
\w
BLANKET BARGAINS!
Seasonable Clearance maizes
this your big opportunity!
Grey Australian Blankets
Superior quality Grey Blankets. Soft finish.
Sizes, inches , 54 x 72 51 x7B 03 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Pair 14/0 15/(5 19/11 24/0 29/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, pair .. 15/0 14/0 18/0 22/11 28/6
Superior Grey Australian Blankets
High-grade Grey Australian Blankets. In Silver or Ilark Grey. Years of service in
every pair. Sizes, ins 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Prices, pair 21/0 27/0 55/- 42/-
AnthOny Horderns Sale Prices, pair 19/0 25/11 31/11 37/11
Famous “Hordura” White Blankets
“Honiara” High-grade White Australian Blankets. Soft, fleecy quality, full of warmth
and durability. Made expressly for Anthony Horderns’.
Sizes, inches 's4x 78 03 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Single, Threequarter. Double Lge. Hide.
Prices, pair 52/0 59/0 49/0 " 59/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, Pair 29/6 35/11 45/0 55/-
13/6
Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O


Si
it's a matter cf progress-
m
5*5*
WULL$
W) LE*,F
\VM
m
SlNCE DRAKE voyaged around the world many
other explorers have gradually advanced our know-
ledge of geography and navigation to its present high
standard.
And so with cigarettes.
One smokes all brands in a search for perfection,
until one discovers Abdulla Virginia Leaf!
And then—the cigarettes of substantial size, perfectly
blended from finest Virginia tobacco; the careful hand
packing and handsome wrapping ; the unvarying satis-
faction-give the absolute perfection that only Abdullas
possess.
/Vbdull^
VIRGINIA LEAF
CORK TIPPED
cigarettes
IO's PACKETS —9 J . 20s FLAT TINS—1^
dfie ‘Perfect Cigarette uatuuufaf, fv People of Discrimination.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Slopes, 3/3; Wise
Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The
Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring Passion, by Maiie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception
—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4 ; Radiant
Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Sex and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex Knowledge,
by N. March, 1/8 ; Love and Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3 : Exercises for Women, by Ilornibrook,
5/4; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by
Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect
Wife, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11;
Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M.
Gallichan, 6/3; AVise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3: Medical Views on Birth Control,
0/4 ; Canary Breeding- for Beginners, 2/9 ; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of
Physical Culture, 6/3; Sex Problems and! Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5; Knowledge a
Young AA'ife Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; The Book of Nature, 3/9 ; Contract Bridge, by Ely
Cuthbertson, 8/6: Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective
Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/6; Menus Made Easy, by
Nancy Lake, 5/4; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Ruinsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter
AA'riter, 3/4 ; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4 ; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton,
M.A., 3/3 ; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/8; Popular Card Games and
How to Play and Win, by' F. lugs, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, l/si; House’s
Canary Manual, 2/9 ; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two. by A. Belasco, 1/6 ; Ward Lock’s Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1 ; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2 ; The Companion Letter
Writer, 2/8; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11;
DICTIONARY AND ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
.->l2 Pag£s. 10,‘000 References —Facts and Figures on every subject.
The World’s Cheapest Dictionary.
PRICE, 4/6; Postage Bd. extra.
CONTENTS: Scheme of Pronunciation; How to Speak and Write Correct
English; Abbreviations; New Words and Meanings; Dictionary of
Business, Weights, Measures, Time, Scientific Data, Wireless, Motoring
and Aviation; Dictionary of Terms, Foreign Phrases, Classical and
Modern; Modes of Addressing Persons of Rank; Countries of the
World —Land, Sea, Railways, Canals, Mountains, Islands, Lakes and
Rivers.
Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English
Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own
Mechanic, 9/-; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and
Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
26/-; Napoleou’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 279; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rurnsey, 2/2; Goldfish, by Roughley, 1/2; Diesel Engine, by
j ones Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 6/3; 1001 Riddles, New and Old,
2/2; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to
Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/- ; Motor Repair Manual, 4/7 ; Motor Electrical Manual,
4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism
Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood —a
Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-;
Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on birth control, 1/S; The Why and How of Birth Control,
by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; How to Mesmerise, by .Janet Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D.
Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/5; Universal Cookery Book, One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we
recommend it; Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7; Speed, and How to Obtain It, 4/6; Audel’s Radioman’s
Guide, 8/10 ; How to Drive a Car, 3/9 ; Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing Punts, 2/9 ; Commercial
Art and Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/9; Freshwater Aquaria, by Bateman, 10/9; Practical
Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 6/4 ; Water Divining, 6/3 ; Painting and Distempering, 1/11;
Outboard Motorboat Book, blue prints, 17/-; Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Ticket and Signwriting,
1/-; How to Draw for the Press, 1/-; Decorative Design, 1/-; Roofing, Slating and Tiling, 1/4;
\ll Wave Receivers, 1/2; The Modern Diesel Engine, 4/6; Mechanical World Year-book, 1932, 3/-;
Fowler’s Mechanics’ and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 3/10 ; Birth Control Up-to-date, by Eason, 2/2.
WRITE FOR LISTS
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers. Librarians , Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
consume them. Greater and greater produc-
tion would have no meaning unless there
were greater and greater consumption. In
the Fordian Golden Age (year of our Ford,
200) this is fully realised instead of being
merely the vague aspiration of a few ideal-
ists like Elbert Hubbard, Dr. Frank Crane
and Ford himself, as nowadays. Sex is a
nuisance where it interferes with produc-
tion, so babies are produced in bottles.
Spermatozoa and ova are brought together
in the Central London Hutchery and Con-
ditioning Centre. In the nine months of
gestation they move slowly along belts, like
the nuts and bolts in a motor factory, being
“conditioned.” The eggs are immunised
against the few remaining infectious dis-
eases and are prepared synthetically for
their function in life—to be Alphas, Betas,
Gammas and Epsilons. The Epsilons are
morons, fit to do the less intelligent work
of an industrial civilisation. The Deltas
have medium intelligences. The Alphas
are provided with the directing brains of
industry.
Uttering their first shriek of horror
and despair, the babies are decanted
and transferred to the department of mental
conditioning. “The principle of sleep-teach-
ihg, or hypnopaedia, had been discovered.”
Under the pillow of every moron is a micro-
phone, whispering, whispering, “ Alpha child-
ren wear grey. They work much harder
than we do, because they’re so frightfully
clever. I’m really glad I’m a Beta, because
I don’t work so hard. And then we are
much better than the Gammas and Deltas.
Gammas are stupid. They all wear green,
and Delta children wear khaki. Oh no, I
don’t want to play with Delta children.”
This is the first lesson in “Elementary
Class Consciousness.” Flowers are shown
to the morons, but when they crawl towards
them and try to touch them they get an
electric shock. After a few months of this
experience they associate beauty with pain.
“We condition the masses to hate the
country,” said the director. “But simul-
taneously we condition them to love all
country sports. At the same time, we see
to it that all country sports shall entail the
use of elaborate apparatus, so that they
consume manufactured articles as well as
transport.”
Poets were banned from Plato’s com-
monwealth because they told lies and repre-
sented the gods as committing unworthy
actions. Poets are also banned from Hux-
ley’s Utopia because they might tell lies
about Our Ford (“Ford’s in his Flivver,
all’s right with the world”). A warrior caste
is not necessary, for Universal Peace broods
over the world, except in a few places where
savages not worth the trouble of indus-
trialising are left to their own devices
behind electrified wire fences. The equiva-
lent of the warrior caste are the intellectuals
dedicated to the task of maintaining social
stability by mass suggestion. Community
singing is the universal form of religious
observance—the Arch Community Songster
is the premier prelate of England. Solitude
is bad for industrialised morons —they
might start thinking, and thinking leads
to discontent, and social stability depends
on everybody being meaninglessly happy.
So leisure is organised as thoroughly as
work, and it is wicked not to spend your
leisure meaninglessly and expensively
playing centrifugal bumblepuppy. When
you grow tired of meaningless leisure,
which includes promiscuous sexual grati-
fication, divorced by science from all
the ordinary human responsibilities, you
take soma, a drug which concentrates
into a few hours of unconsciousness
an eternity of sensual pleasure. Thus you
return to your work of producing and con-
suming without any of the distracting anti-
social urges, such as made Antony sacri-
fice an empire for Cleopatra, or made
Romeo regard life as well lost for Juliet.
As the ordinary biological process of repro-
duction has been superseded “mother” has
become an obscene word, printed with a
letter and a stroke, like the great Austra-
lian adjective. Shakspeare is a pornographic
writer banned to the Utopians, and Ford’s
“My Life” has taken the place of the Bible.
Huxley’s satire is cast in the form of an
extraordinarily interesting novel, the charac-
ters brilliantly illustrating the psychological
realities behind the mechanistic concept of
society. These are symbolised in the
Savage, a young man brought from a pagan
reservation in Mexico to England. He has
been born in the ordinary manner, and has
nurtured his mind on Shakspeare. Horrified
at a sexless and industrialised society, he
revolts into asceticism and, seeing the world
debauched by comfort, tries to redeem it by
pain. There is a remarkable scene where he
flogs himself before a crowd of laughing
Epsilons and Deltas, who regard his antics
with the detachment of people in a zoo
watching a gorilla; then he hangs himself.
The book is in the nature of a last word
on a family argument. Huxley’s eminent
brother Julian has for a long time been
preaching the possibility of a neo-biological
society produced in test tubes. Biology,
he remarks, is in the position of physics 100
years ago. Physics has transformed man’s
environment; biology, carried to its logical
conclusion, will transform, not the environ-
ment, but the human animal. It has already
been demonstrated that rats can be pro-
duced extra-uterinely. Why not humans?
And if humans, says brother Aldous, will
not the captains of industry, with their
present mentality, not view their human
materia] precisely as a stockbreeder views
his cattle, breeding them for beef or mutton
according to the requirements of his market?
That human beings may eventually be
budded off in thousands from a single
embryo to satisfy the needs of a particu-
lar industry or repair the wastage created
by an earthquake in Japan or an Indian
famine is a logical extension which Julian
and scientists of his way of thinking seem
to view with equanimity.
PAWANG.
A Satchel of Books
The Scarlet Years, by Hugh Pendexter
(Collins; 7s. (id.), deals with the struggle of
the French and English for Canada: Louis
Valtry, hero and spy, is a likeable swash-
buckler who faces frightful odds and cer-
tain death so often that the reader loses
count, but wins through to love and happi-
ness in the end. The story finishes with the
fall of Fort Froutenac.
Harness of Death, by W. Stanley Sykes
(John Lane; 7s. 6d.), is a different crime
yarn, inasmuch as that shining light of Scot-
land Yard Inspector Drury first discovers
who committed the murder (which was
practically a perfect one) by a process of
pure logic; and then convicts the guilty man
of another. Another feature of this book is
its wealth of inside information about tunny-
fishing off the north-east coast of England.
Nelle M. Scanlan’s “Primrose Hill,” which
was mostly about London, got a word of
praise on this Page last year; now comes
Pencarrow (Jarrolds; 7s. 6d.), which is all
about Maoriland. The Pencarrows were
pastoralists, farmers, doctors, lawyers and
traders, and their family history is traced
from the Hungry Forties to the present clay.
A dramatic book, with some sound character-
drawing, which but for the Anglicised atmo-
sphere might have been written round hun-
dreds of vigorous Australian families.
Frank C. Robertson, author of Red
Rustlers (Collins; 7s. Gel.), is distinguished
for the movement he gets into liis yarns,
movement into his yarns than Mr. Sanders.
From the first minute Sam Crane goes after
the Rocking M outfit, whose performances
make those of a Sydney Trades Hall basher
gang resemble ping-pong, by contrast; it is
murder, murder, all the way. The Mormon
Kid is the nastiest piece of work in the
book, and the reader will be pleased though
not surprised to learn that he gets his to-
wards the end. Sam’s reward for his homi-
cidal conduct is the hand of the fair owner
of Rocking M.
June Lightning, by Elizabeth Murray
(John Lane; 7s. 6d.), introduces the reader
to another batch of bright young moderns.
Micky, the hero, has an affair with Serena,
and when he refuses to go on with it, having
fallen in love with Diane, the woman spurned
gives him hell in language that would get
her flung out of any law-abiding wine-bar.
He proposes companionate marriage to
Diane, but she is insufficiently modern, and
reacts to the idea like the stuffiest kind of
mid-Victorian. So Micky fades out. He
was a poisonous lad for all his alleged charm
and lightsome youth.
Otwell Binns, a most prolific writer of
adventure stores,' has turned out another
good one in White Gold (Ward, Lock; 7s.
6d.). Charles Ferrers reads a cryptic advt.
in the Agony Column of the “Times” whose
purport he has small difficulty in guessing.
Dave Christow, who in the Lado Enclave
had saved him from a charging bull ele-
phant, is in trouble, and wants his help.
He is soon at Mozambique, and up to his
neck in intrigue and peril with villainous
Germans and greasy, treacherous Dagoes on
every hand. Packed with thrills to the last
page, when the dauntless Ferrers and his
bride start on their honeymoon.
The Wild West fan turns with complete
confidence to the art of Robert Ames Bennet:
lie may be termed the Greta Garbo of sen-
sational fiction. Of Feud of Cattle Kings
(Collins; 7s. Gd.). which is his latest, the
critic can only say to commencing readers:
“If you possess hair, prepare to have it raised
now.” It is hard to say which of Mr. Beunet’s
new crop of undesirables is most loathsome.
Some will plump for Apache Hank, who
murderered Juanita’s grandfather; others
may accord the bays of infamy to the treach-
erous Sloat; and again there be those who
will consider it a draw. A pleasing little
love episode develops as the blood and
corpses are being removed.
llg Lady Dangerous, by Sydney I-loi’ler
(Collins; 7s. Gd.). is about an attempt by
a hunchback millionaire to ruin England,
aided and abetted by a couple of villainous
foreigners, and their discomfiture at the
hands of young Wimp, of the F. 0.. Sir
Darker Bellamy, Chief of Z:± (“The Mole,
as this grim, grey-faced man was known”)
and the loveliest actress in London. This is
how the unspeakable Mihvard Pontifex
addresses the patriots whoni he has cap-
tured : “You are in my power, aud you will
never escape—for years, I say. I have de-
voted at least half my income—that fortune,
which I have forced out of the country—to
the destruction of Great Britain. Now the
time has come.” A few minutes later, all
the undesirables are either dead or under
arrest, and Stella, who is as brave and bold
as she is beautiful, is in the rather dunder-
headed hero’s arms. Rank balderdash, of
course, but written with great verve and con-
fidence.
And a Little Verse
THE SILENT LYRE.
Pale Orpheus mourns. The broken strings
Of his sweet lyre hang limp and frayed.
His song is dumb.
No longer come
The wolf and lion from their haunts,
The panther from his gloomy glade
Who once had listened while he played.
No longer come the timid fauns
Stealing the dappled lawns,
Nor the mad maenads with their hair
Streaming across their shoulders bare,
By shining Helicon
Bale Orpheus stands and sorrows there—
Eurydice is gone!
Pale Orpheus mourns! Not now because
Eurydice is gone away ;
Grief, deeper, tears his heart in two:
He has forgotten how to play!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MOBRIS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Mudgee: But. all that has been said
again and again. What we want are definite sug-
gestions. .. .W.McK.: Too long for our use. Con-
tributions for those pages should keep inside about
300 words... .H.R.S.: No new point in it ....Will
Wilga: Much obliged. It would cost more money
than we’ve got, and we’re not asking anybody else
in.... Edwin T.: Too deep to fathom. .. .R.W.W.:
No, but we’d like to hear again.... Bas Bleu: Lost
in a jungle of words.... A.G.0.: “Fate” is a dreadful
revelation of the influence of the movies... .E.K.P.:
Long-drawn-out and in spots unreal. Held for a
check reading, which confirmed other reports....
A.P.F.: Overflowing with the obvious.... Amy M.:
Observation there. Try it on a new theme....
I. : “Winter Birds” too artificial; stick to the
lighter vein, as in your apt afterword to “Beauty
Unadorned”:—
Is beauty really less adorned in nothing'?
Or vice adorned in Fashion’s last decree ?
Or between virtue and a heap of clothing
What possible connection can there be ?
Skins on a man will scarce disclose a lion,
Clothes on an ape discover him a man;
And who through raiment looks to get to Zion
Will be an also-ran.
. ...J.L.: Polysyllabic diatribe hit the basket....
Cassandra: Prophetic, verily. .. :A.A.J.M.: Unintel-
ligible where it isn’t indecipherable. .. .F.0’8.:
Worthless. .. .M.H.: It’s been done to death....
T.W.N.: Something in the refrain:—
“Oh, the balmy night and Darlinghurst
Are the time and the place for me!”
But the rest hardly measures up to it... .ILCAI.:
Received as per invoice “six attempts at poetry,
after having burnt much and tried often.” Sorry,
but you’ll have to burn more and tiy harder. The
rhyming is rocky, the metre full of jolts, and your
agricultural experiences, wherein you show at least
a gleam of originality, would go better in prose....
Brasha: There’s a passable verse or two, but not
enough to lift them out of the commonplace. .. .
J. :
“Gaunt gums, silent sentinels, their white arms
upraise,
Foliage fragrantly bending in adorant praise.”
Ring off, 50n.... Ox: Bathos.... Bogan: G. R. Sims
and water. .. .C.V.T.: No bite in “Fishin’ ”... . J.A.G.:
Unsuitable.... G.L.: What are “lowering kine”?
. ...H.H.S.: Mushy. .. .A.L.McI.: A pretty trifle, but
the idea is 01d... .G.A,: Too jerky for a sonnet....
E.L.T.: The writing’s fine, but that’s the best we
can say of them.... Mr. S.: Nothing in it....V.5.:
“ ’Tis a peculiar thing
That though I sigh, I, too, can sing.”
No evidence of it....M.D.: “I should like the en-
closed poem, ‘The Clarence Bridge,’ to appear
in The Bulletin during Bridge Week; if rejected,
kindly state reasons.” Unnecessary; the first verse
saves us that trouble: —
The bridge o’er the mighty Clarence
Is an accomplished fact indeed ;
Outstanding in significance
It meets the public need.
~ . .1.W.: Gaudy nothings ... .M. 8.: A dauby picture.
. ...S.E.A.: No kick in it... .A.L.K.: But who is
the prominent doctor who has discovered that “the
Australian female is the largest and heaviest in the
world”? A.E.8.: There’s little hope for the man
who tries to rhyme “saw” with “door”. .. .P.J.1.:
Not even poetical license reconciles us to your swag-
man who declared,
“The soft brown earth supplies my bed,
The sky my canopy.”
V.A.B.: No use for reprint and the verse is
shop-worn stuff... .D.L.M.M.: We hate to send “the
yellow-headed mermaid with the shining silver stern”
back into the deep, but she must g 0... .E.E.M.:
Brevity is a rare and shining merit, but you overdo
it There’s swing in it, but no freshness.
. ...Jakardy: Try it on a daily... . J.M.H.: Good
enough of its kind, but it isn’t our kind. ...
C.C.McN.: Scarcely a sonnet, but there are four good
lines in it... .R.V.O’R.: “One of a series of versos
we call ‘Devilments’.” The sample certainly strikes
us as hellish... .C.V.: “Nurse” makes us suspect
you have been jilted by one. .. .E.A.F.: A labored
jest. .. . A.G.S.: Not a bad ending, but we don’t like
“roaming gum-scented breezes”.... J.R.: Agree that
it is “a rough attempt”... .J.R. M.: All would need
too much licking into shape... . J.M.A.: Climax is
conventional—every encounter between a man and
a maid does not end in marriage. . . .M.L.L.: Interest-
ing in a way, but can’t use it. .. . J.E.8.: End is
confusing—what happened to the rest of the boat-
load?. .. .D.D.: “Beauty” did not reign long here.
. ...E.R.: Might have stood a better chance written
from another angle.. . . A.W.: Too sketchy. .. .E.S.:
Old Ben is tramping home.... W.D.Y.: “Flotsam”
describes it... .1.W.F.: Collection of stale impres-
sions .... W.G.S.: Everyday romance drably told.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.P.: That reprobate has been clinging to a
lamp-post as long as we can remember.... 11.F.F.:
Old Bill closely resembles retired sea-dogs seen in
English funny papers... .8.Y.: No sparkle in the
gag... .T.R.C.: Posture of person on right suggests
that you drew him while standing on your head. . ..
W. 8.: Please forward address of pub where they
serve stingo in such huge mugs. ... F.L.: It should
have been forwarded before election-day; no use
n0w....M.G.: Can understand why clothes were
invented after seeing your nudes... .W.R.A.: Needs
retouching. .. .L.T.H.: Admire your determination
more than your drawings... .P.Q.: No use for illus-
trated riddles... .A.E.N.: Rolling-pin is tolerably
drawn. . . .R.F.: Not lively enough. . . .N.M.: Nothing
like a stork... .T.J.R.: Awful... . A.D.: Too muddy.
. ...R.L.: None of the trio impressed... .D.M.D.:
Make ’em larger, and strive for a firmer line....
A. 8.: More polish required... .H.8.L.: Microscopic
figures merely gave us eyestrain... .G.H.S.: Not a
grin in either. .. .G.A.H.: Nothing marketable among
them. .. .F.W.: No use sending sketches done with
an indelible pencil... .R.J.: In the novice class....
M.E.W.: Drum-major is well drawn, but bagpipes
jest is pointless... .P.R.: Joke doesn’t suit sketch
and neither suits us... . A.D.A.: Only place for that
misshapen hound is a lethal chamber... .K.C.M.:
Be content with simple jobs till your work improves.


s
ś
/
.. ■*: i
v *
m
Mm
i
sfi^'
/
■I
«!#
?
I.'-:
m
m
1
1
m
m
W-‘
■ * a
■
■
■
«
i
«8F
3*%
. *
prrin
M
m
■
sfl
1
Tj> ,j
1 % 1
a»f
i
,-:
■
HI
f in
HHI
■
■
:
ii
Ii
■T#
iHI
■
WiLjffP
■
: -v; ; :' ; : : i
■
*V
Hi
■
I I
hMH :
;
M
-*•
'-v-V;-,
M
HRP>'
V
■
■
'*w
S:
■
i
i
a
e.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2734.
July 6, 1932.
CALLING THE CUBS.
OTTAWA, JULY, 1932.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >Phone 81911.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s • ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
2 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
'' months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
A DEFICIT OF 20 MILLIONS.
When the Premiers’ Conference met last
week the Prime Minister reported that the
Premiers’ Plan had thus far not been real-
ised. For 1931-32 the States had undertaken
to reduce their estimated aggregate deficit
of £20,680,000 to £11,510,000; actually, their
aggregate was £17,610,000. But whereas
the Commonwealth had undertaken to
reduce its deficit to £1,150,000, it had a sur-
plus of £1,220,000; and deducting that from
the States’ deficit, he got a net aggregate
Australian deficit of £16,390,000 for the year.
Later, however, various adjustments were
made; and at the end of the week the
figures were made out as follows:
Deficit in
Excess of Plan
Deficit. Estimate.
N. S. Wales .. .. j£ 13,253,347 it,343,347
Victoria .. .. 1,610,000
Queensland .. .. 2,075,180 1,315,000
Tasmania . . . . 260,000 90,000
Amount Saved
on Plan.
S. Australia . . . . 1,074,000 426,000
Westralia . . . . 1,557,895 2,105
Surplus.
Commonwealth . . 1,220,000 2,370,000
Net deficit .. .. £ 18,610,422
Net ex ss of planned
deceit . . . . £5,950,242
Of the States’ deficiency of £19,830,422,
N.S.W., under the rule of Lang, was respon-
sible for £13,253,347. Queensland is the
only other contributor of any consequence;
and it claims that, as it had surplus (loan)
funds at its disposal, it was entitled to
exceed the plan deficit since this did not
entail any increase of the floating debt.
On the whole, then, it can be said that,
leaving the temporarily insane State out
of account, the group did very well, taking
the plan as a standard.
But even had the plan been closely fol-
lowed, it would have meant a deficit of
£12,660,000; and as things turned out that
figure was very greatly exceeded. We
Australians have got into very bad habits
so far as our national accounts are con-
cerned. For 30 years at least our outgoings
always exceeded our income; but occasion-
ally not quite as much as usual was charged
up to loans, and then we had what' we
admitted was a deficit. But in point of
fact there was so little difference between a
surplus and a deficit—it simply meant in
most cases a difference in book-keeping—
that nobody took much notice whether
it was the one or the other. The politicians
took as little notice as anybody: to them
either a surplus or a deficit was, for the
most part, merely a group of figures on a
piece of paper. The householder knows
that if his expenditure exceeds his income
he must do one of two things if he wants
to keep honest: he must increase his in-
come or reduce his expenditure or do some
of both. He knows that he cannot have
a deficit without borrowing or owing the
money to have it with; and if he can’t
earn the money he knows he must put
himself in pawn to raise it.
Absolutely the same thing applies to
Governments. Yet we find Premiers
coming to this conference at Canberra, and
presenting estimates for an aggregate deficit
of 20 millions for the year just begun.
Possibly they don’t mean it. Possibly they
produce these figures in order that they
may show presently what great things they
have done in the way of economy. But,
looking at the matter from an ordinary
business-man’s point of view, what would
happen to a board of directors which,
immediately after reporting a deficit of 20
millions (13 millions of it due to an irre-
sponsible “head” who had since been got
rid of) —what would happen to a board
which, in such circumstances, estimated a
deficit of 20 millions for the ensuing year?
Without a doubt, if the board could not
be got rid of on the spot, a committee of
shareholders would be appointed to see
where revenue could be improved or ex-
penses cut down; and if it was said to be
impossible to improve revenue, then that
committee would soon find means of cutting
down expenditure—beginning with the direc-
tors. There never yet was an expenditure
of 200 millions—the approximate amount
of the Government’s outgoings in Australia
—without large possibilities of economy,
especially when the service had been built
up and its salaries, allowances and other
spendings fixed during years of the wildest
extravagance.
The growth of the public expenditure of
Australia, apart altogether from loans, has
been staggering. Look at these figures com-
paring 1913-14, the year before the war, and
1930:
Expenditure (Exclusive of Loans) per Head.
1913-14. 1929-30.
N. S. Wales £9 13 3 £2l 1 1
Victoria 7 11 10 16 0 9
Queensland 10 10 11 17 19 3
S. Australia 10 9 3 20 19 8
Westralia 16 13 1 24 12 9
Tasmania 6 2 6 13 12 3
All States 9 11 2 19 3 8
In view of the very heavy burden of war
debt, borne by the same people through
the Commonwealth, the utmost economy
should, of course, have been practised
throughout every State department. In-
stead, we get the foregoing figures, showing
that the States have more than doubled
their ordinary expenditure in this brief
period. Certainly under the Premiers’ Plan
there have been some savings. But the fact
that the Treasuries now produce estimates
showing an aggregate deficit of 20 millions
for the current year proves beyond all
question that the savings have not gone
nearly far enough.
The Bulletin has no serious objection to
the adjournment of the Canberra con-
ference for a month. Something may come
out of Ottawa during that period, though
the prospects are not bright. But the people
of Australia ought to adopt every possible
means of letting the politicians know that
they must stop this piling up of deficits, this
steady draining of the banks to maintain a
standard of public expenditure which is far
beyond our means and our capacity.
THE LACK OF COURAGE.
J. T. Lang has less intelligence than any
of a dozen men in his party, is unready
in speech, ill-mannered and wholly lacking
in resource. Yet J. T. Lang has a larger
personal following than any other political
leader Australia has known for many years.
His policy for the general election was
the poorest thing; it was supported by
statements easily capable of being proved
to be impudent lies. It should not have
commanded 50,000 votes, yet it com-
manded 500,000. There was no longer a cry
that Labor was right; the party went to the
polls with a thousand banners proclaiming
that Lang was right. Why did this poor
specimen of a Labor leader—this leader who
has never led Labor anywhere except to
disaster and who now had no rational policy
to offer—why did he command such a
respect and such a following? There is
only one explanation: he either did things
or made a very good pretence of doing
them.
Lang thus appealed to vast numbers of
people as a man of courage. It is not neces-
sary to inquire whether he really had courage,
or whether what passed for courage was
not often simply uncouthness and' bad
manners. It is sufficient- that thousands
believed he said just what he thought and
tried to do just what he believed should
be done. He did, in short, what our whole
party system has been training men not to
do. As soon as a man gets into Parlia-
ment he becomes a candidate for the next
election, though it be three years away.
He lays himself out to make friends in the
party and his district. The local thick-and-
thin supporters of his party are safe; he
need not worry about them. What he
has to do is to bring others into the fold,
and he proceeds to do it by showing how
“moderate” he is. Labor men do a good
deal of this, but their opponents do a great
deal more. So we have the frequent confes-
sion of the Labor rank and file that it can
get more from its opponents in office than
it can from its own men.
At the last general election in N. S. Wales
Lang offered his opponents just as much as
Labor generally offers, and that is nothing
at all. Labor has its policy, and sticks
to it. Its opponents, on the other hand,
have no policy in the strict sense of the
term. They fill up their time denying that
they propose to do what they are accused
of having in their minds. They are on the
defensive most of the time. They seek to
prove their claim on the people’s votes by
making a concession here and a concession
there—yielding a little of this ground and
a little of that. Of course they win some-
times, as they won in N. S. Wales the other
day; but at what cost!
Naturally most of the concessions or
bribes have been held out in connection
with industrial legislation. At first, gener-
ally speaking, councils of conciliation were
set up to assist employers and employees
who could not settle their differences. Then
courts of arbitration were constituted. The
rest of the world looked at us, watched
results and did nothing. For our own
part we went on steadily, Labor naturally
seeking more and more, and its political
opponents conceding more and more. In
due time we reached the living wage—a
humanitarian conception designed to pro-
tect the sub-normal, through old age or
other infirmity, from being paid wages
upon which it was not possible to live in
poor comfort. It was a scheme based on
the knowledge that in order to pay these
few {fub-normal people more than they
earned the many might have to accept a
fraction less than they earned. No sooner
had that been established than the basic
wage was thrust forward; and upon that
utterly illogical and uneconomic thing a
great pyramid has been built which is
crushing the life out of Australia. It has
robbed the worker of his personal freedom;
it has taken from him the • incentive to
shine at his trade; it has reduced the out-
put of workmen, especially in Government
employ; it has thus laid tremendous loads
of debt upon the country ; and more than
anything else it is responsible for the huge
proportion of our unemployed.
And it is not the Labor party which
is responsible for all this: it is the Labor
party’s political opponents. With very
few exceptions they have never had the
courage to say that things were wrong,
that instead of making further concessions
we must sweep away many of these ridicu-
lous experiments which have completely
failed, and give the industrious and skilled
man a chance to benefit by his industry
and his skill; that to this end the unscien-
tific. and uneconomic basic wage must go—
a ridiculous thing based on the fiction that
there is some mysterious crock of gold out
of which wages can be paid whether they
are earned or not. Nor for 20 years was
any attempt made to touch the baby bonus;
and no attempt has yet been made to plug
up a score or more of the leaks through
which money passes out of the Treasury
into the pockets of people who have no
proper claim to it.
Ihe best hope for the future seems to
lie in the Country party. All over Aus-
tralia there are duds in it, of course, but
it yet holds a far greater proportion of
men who will speak their minds than any
other party ; the only other section which
approaches it is the Young Australian wing
of the Nationalist party in Victoria-
thanks largely to the inspiration of R. G.
Menzies. That- the Country party stands
where it does is largely due to its hatred
of pre-selection. So long as we have that
(difficult as it may be to get rid of it) we are
going to have poor party hacks who will
not say a bold word for fear of damaging
the prospects of the mob to which they
belong. Progress is not made that way—
not even party progress. The people who
are not tied fast to any party and whose
votes determine elections like courage and
boldness. Lang has already been cited,
but there are plenty of other cases. When
Bruce was swept out of office and Parlia-
ment, one member of his party increased the
party majority in his district, as usual—the
greatly-esteemed W. W. Killen, of Riverina.
And the reason was that he never hedged.
When the vote-catchers were going around
hating our whole arbitration system in their
hearts and with their lips promising to
extend it, Ivillen said : “I would abolish
it!” And there is Tom Henley, of Bur-
wood (N.S.W.) —a man who has seen his
friends fall all around him, while his sup-
posed enemies have cheered him. They
like Tom ’Enley; like him because of his
down-rightness. He will not get into a
Ministry very easily; but he will tell more
truths in a year than half the Ministers
put together. Queensland supplies a dozen
instances of the same sort. Every election
Randolph Bedford runs away with a seat
that is declared to belong to the other side.
His vehement insistence upon saying what
is in his own mind explains it.
There is little hope for Australia until
its politicians inside Parliament and out
of it develop more courage, and are cheered
when they show it, instead of being re-
pressed. The Labor party is in need of it
as _ much as any other party—men with the
spirit to speak their minds plainly when
wrong courses are being taken. The “dis-
ciplining” of men who will not see eye to
eye with the bosses of the movement is
an outrage which calls for resistance. But
it is the non-Labor parties whose followers
have suffered most from this abominable
system of trying to buy votes with conces-
sions. Look at the N.S.W. United party
to-day—playing with all the gambling in-
strumentalities which the other side set
up. If there is a man in the party who
hates the State Lottery, he does no more
than whisper his hate in his neighbor’s ear
—with an earnest prayer that the neighbor
will not mention it to anyone else. The
thing is a scandal; but no! the United
party would not interfere with it—it car-
ries too many votes. And because it car-
ries too many votes there would be only
cold looks for any member of the party
who took the platform to denounce this
horrible growth.
THESE POLITICAL LEECHES.
Marr, the Commonwealth Minister of
Works, who has nothing much to do these
days, has received particulars of a plan
for providing jobs instead of doles, and
has sent it along to the Prime Minister
with his blessing. It was communicated to
him, he mentions, by “an influential section
of Sydney business men,” and the central
idea, is that there should be “a uniform
wages tax” of “Is. in the £ on salaries and
incomes up to £3OO a year,” with “a half-
penny increase for every £5O until a maxi-
mum tax of 2s. in the £ is reached.” Pre-
sumably this impost would supersede the
present State unemployed-relief taxes,
though Marr does not say so. It would, he
or his “influential section” calculates, bring
in “about £20,000,000” —a quarter of a mil-
lion or so less than the anticipated deficits
of the seven Governments for 1932-33.
With this £20,000,000, it is confidently if
cloudily asserted,. the army now on the
dole could be employed on relief works,
“through municipal and shire councils,” at
the Federal basic wage, and there would
be enough left over for other forms of ex-
penditure—two in particular.
For one thing, “assistance would be pro-
vided for farmers in necessitous circum-
stances to improve their properties and so
increase production.” Farmers only, appar-
ently; not pastoralists. One of the Nialls,
of Goldsbrough Morts. has been saying that
the woolgrowers lost £2 10s. on every bale
produced last year, or £7,500,000 altogether.
About the same time a deputation of
Queensland graziers informed a member of
their new r Government, which has promised
the unemployed work at the basic wage,
that their industry is “in such a state that
its collapse is inevitable and imminent
unless a substantial increase in prices is
obtained or costs of production are suffi-
ciently reduced to allow of a margin of
profit.” Obviously many of these people
are “in necessitous circumstances,” and
could do with “assistance”; but Marr does
not mention them. He is a city politician,
and it is the rooted belief of city poli-
ticians that pastoralists have an inexhaust-
ible capacity for paying taxes and freight
rates on the highest scale. Evidently they
are expected to make a large contribution
to the £20,000,000 of relief-tax revenue —
possibly 10 per cent, of what they lost on
their clip. To continue the story, “there are
a number of struggling industries which
cannot carry on by the payment of award
wages. It is suggested that such indus-
tries could be given assistance out of the
fund to make up the award wages to
employees engaged.” Much the same thing
was “suggested” in England a century or
more ago. The experiment was tried on
a large scale, was attended with the most
demoralising results, and was abandoned
amidst general rejoicing. Historians unite
in pronouncing it the worst feature of the
old poor-law system. If Marr is acquainted
with the history of the period he has learned
nothing from it.
The Queensland Taxpayers’ Association
has been trying to work out what middle-
class people paid in Federal income tax,
State income tax and State relief tax during
the financial year which has just closed.
Perfect accuracy is impossible with the
information at its disposal, for persons may
be, and are, taxed in two or more States on
the same income. For instance, N. S.
Wales demands Is. in the £ relief tax from
recipients of property income from other
States, where it has already borne two
Federal and two State taxes; and South
Aus. exacts a special tax of 6d. in the £
of all dividends received by residents. But
the Q.T.A. estimate is near enough and
sufficiently startling:—
Summary op Federal and . State Taxes on Income
in the Four Big States (pence omitted).
ON. PERSONAL INCOME.
Taxable Q’land. N.S.W. Vic. S.A.
Income. £ s. £ s. £ s. £ B ,
£500.. 47 7 65 5 30 5 62 14
1000.. 132 8 139 0 10014 151 0
2000.. 388 18 349 6 297 4 404 3
3000.. 769 10 647 10 591 15 759 7
ON PROPERTY INCOME.
Taxable Q’land. N.S.W. A r ic. S.A.
Income. £ s. £ s. £ s. £ s
£500.. 113 9 125 2 92 4 125 17
1000.. 280 7 278 16 261 12 295 16
2000.. 715 0 698 18 686 17 747 18
3000.. 1288 5 1261 5 1255 12 1340 12
In effect, the tax-gatherers in the States
with just on six millions of our popula-
tion are already taking from 34.3 per cent,
to 37.3 per cent, of an income of £2OOO,
and from 42 per cent, to 44.6 per cent, of
an income of £3OOO. And they collect a
still greater proportion of higher incomes,
if there are any left. For the Federal tax
on personal income rises to 7s. 6d. on every
pound in excess of £6900. On property
income it is 7s. 6d. on every pound in
excess of £3700, and there is a special tax
of 2s. in the £ besides. The N.S.W. income
and relief taxes go up to 6s. in the £;
and South Aus. exacts ss. Bd. in the £ of
property income exceeding £7OOO. More-
over, many of these taxes are charged not
on net incomes but on incomes before cer-
tain outgoings have been deducted; so that
the percentage of actual income taken by
taxes is much higher—far beyond 10s. in
the £in many cases. A Queenslander
whose income from property is £3OOO pays
£l2BB, leaving him £1712. Next year, though
his real income for the previous year was
£1712, he still pays £l2BB. Thus for every
20s. he puts in his own pocket he has to
hand the State 15s. in these taxes alone; and
there are a dozen others. It is folly to talk
of adding substantially to these burdens.
The aim should rather be to reduce them
substantially and remove others (such
as the fraudulent N.S.W. child-endow-
ment tax of £2 in thp £lOO of wages,
which is simply another unemployed-relief
tax), so that the people concerned, who
are practically all wage-payers, may be
placed in a position to give more work.
Not Government relief work, with which
most of those on the dole are unfamiliar,
and in the provision of which a great deal
of money is wasted in one way and an- •
other, but work in their own trades and
callings. Instead of being bled white, people
with incomes of £5OO a year and upwards
—especially countrymen with land to spare
—ought to be encouraged to “adopt”
deserving out-of-works for the period of the
depression. Crippling taxation has been
tried and found wanting. Tax-remission
might produce immeasurably greater
results.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Catcheries.
No wonder the man in the street is getting
a headache ! The medley of advice which
is pouring into his ear is enough to bewilder
anybody. From one side comes an earnest
appeal to “make work”; from the other a
warning that only production avails. From
the east comes a cry to the people to go
out and spend, spend, spend; from the west
a solemn warning rolls in to economise,
remembering that to-morrow is a day, too.
Into one ear is poured the admonition that
every penny extra you pay the worker is
a penny spent in buying back prosperity;
into the other is shouted the warning that
costs must come down or all our other
labors for bringing back prosperity will be
in vain.
The truth is that it is quite possible to
get out of a difficulty by two paths. Here
side by side are two factories, neither of
them doing any good. One of them calls
in an accountant, who, after an overhaul,
advises that supervision is bad and that
obvious economies would give the concern a
profit and enable it to get out of the
shadow of liquidation. The other calls in
the same accountant, who says, after
making the same kind of overhaul, that
the business wants to shake itself up—
that a few hundreds spent on advertising
would make all the difference between a
loss and a profit. The one has been spend-
ing too much, the other too little.
Most truths, too, lend themselves to
over-statement. No doubt prosperity ought
to mean high wages; but it does not follow
that high wages mean prosperity. You can
break your business by paying too much
for your labor just as you can by paying
too much for anything else. Prosperity
can’t be got, either, by “making work.”
You could set 10,000 men to carry pails
of water from Sydney Harbor to the Yarra;
and though they might sweat gallons, the
country would not be a farthing better off.
A town can stagnate if its people make
good wages and bury them somewhere else,
buying only the barest necessaries from the
local tradespeople. And the man who,
listening to the appeal to spend, spend,
spend, goes out and empties his • pockets,
and then, falling on evil times, cannot carry
on his own business for lack of capital,
gets very little sympathy from anybody—
and does not deserve it.
Fine phrases that sound like something
Solomon said are generally designed to
take the place of thought; and they are
greedily swallowed by millions of people
who don’t want to think, or can’t. Occa-
sionally, no doubt, they serve better than
the thought that would be likely; but the
man who really can do a bit of clear think-
ing is best advised to swallow none of them
without close inspection.
4
Who Pays Exchange?
In “Economic News,” a very welcome little
volume of Australian economic and statis-
tical data, Professor J. B. Brigden deals, of
course, with foreign exchange, and asks
who pays the premium and whether the
exporter actually gets it. Most of the
ground traversed is familiar, but Brigden
makes one new point. No, he says, “the
costs of exchange are not falling on the
export industries, because Governments
are not paying them from taxation....
Nevertheless, some of the costs of exchange
will fall on export industries when interest
on the money borrowed to pay these costs
has to be paid from taxation.” Apparently
this is put forward as something which
rather takes the sting out of the present
exchange rate. What it means, however, is
that Australia would by now be well rid
of annual deficits if it were not for ex-
change, and that, as its deficits have to be
provided for by borrowings, the exchange
with which our export industries are being
buttressed is actually loan money. And as
we are subsidising these industries to avoid
wage and salary cuts and other reductions
in costs, we are really borrowing to pay
part of our wages. We professed to be
horrified when it was made clear a few
years ago that we were borrowing to pay
interest on earlier loans. It is not going
to do our reviving credit any good when
it is found that we are borrowing now to
avoid making cuts in our salaries and wages
and other costs
■ —♦
Siam.
“Feng-Shui”: H. M. King Prajadhipok, of
Siam, is the latest victim of depression.
With him goes the last absolute and
unadulterated autocracy in Asia, if not in
the world. He was an enlightened despot,
but, democracy becomes more and more
intolerant of despots, enlightened or not.
There is something about the Siamese
besides their dress which marks them out
from all other inhabitants of tropical Asia.
They have provided a flat contradiction to
the theory that great civilisations cannot
maintain themselve-s for any length of
time in the hot regions of the earth. They
came originally from Southern China,
whence are derived the coolies who acclima-
tise themselves with complete success to the
tropics and to European industrialism in
Singapore, Malaya, the Dutch East Indies
and the South Seas. These immigrants,
mingling with the indigene, produced a
race which for centuries withstood the
shocks of repeated Burmese attacks.
1 he country was hammered thus into
three castes—the priests, a military aristoc-
racy and the peasants. They fought largely
with cavalry and elephants. The record of
their wars and invasions into Pegu, the
Malay Peninsula and Cambodia is as im-
pressive as those of any European State.
The Shoguns of Japan and the Emperors
of China were glad to make treaties with
them. The Portuguese, arriving at Malacca,
found them a tough nut to crack, both on
sea and land. The Dutch and British
fought each other for the privilege of
owning them—without either gaining the
prize. Later the French came on the
scene and bit off some of their territory
without affecting their independence to any
great extent. If Siam had been an insular
country there might have been another
naval and industrial power to complicate
international relations, like Japan. The
ancient Siamese even invaded China when
it was under the powerful Tang dynasty.
They were forced to retire, but not before
“80 p.c. of the inhabitants of certain towns
in Szechuan were wearing artificial noses
and ears made of wood.”
Modern Siam is the creation of a series of
surprisingly unoriental autocrats. They were
great educationists and great lawmakers.
A penal code which provided the penalty
of death for the crime of introducing ama-
tory poems into the royal palace, and the
penalty of having the offending foot cut
off for the offence of kicking the royal
door, was changed into a modern code
sufficiently unbarbarous to permit of the
abolition of foreign consular courts. The
autocrats of Siam evolved a better
system of education than appertains in
British Malaya, French Cochin-China or
India. In the twentieth century they were
no more immune from the threat of foreign
interference than they were in the seven-
teenth. They countered it by importing
foreign experts to teach them those arts
which command most respect at Geneva
•jonferences and the foreign offices of
European powers. They are now credited
with the possession of the most efficient
air force east of Suez. Their railway sys-
tem is—or was till lately—remarkable in
being not only highly efficient but able to
pay its way.
Until yesterday Siam was a theocracy.
H. M. Prajadhipok was an incarnation of
the Buddha. Even though he played golf
his Divinity was not impaired. But Siam
has been drawn into foreign trade; and
now it suffers from the breakdown of the
world’s prices and the world’s money
system. So a monarch greater than Prajad-
hipok has called for a change, called for a
constitutional monarchy. But though he
has called for it with the voice of democ-
racy, his name is World Finance.
Pen Versus Sword.
The first officer shown in the Defence
Estimates is the Secretary, at £2OOO. Finan-
cial Emergency Act deductions operate
against even him, as in all other cases, so
for purposes of comparison they may be
omitted in a study of relative values. He
draws £6OO more than the Captain-Superin-
tendent at Garden Island, £750 more than
a naval captain, £5OO more than the
major-general who is Chief of the General
Staff, £9OO more than the Commandant of
the First Military District, £1175 more than
a staff colonel, £1570 more than a flying
officer or pilot, and £BOO more than the
Controller of. Civil Aviation, who is now
recovering from desperate injuries received
in the course of his professional duties.
Clearly, therefore, the Secretary, a gentle-
man of the highest clerical rank, must be
regarded as also a military factor of the
first value to Australia’s safety against an
invader, whether from the sea, the land or
the air.
Rallying round the Secretary is a trusty
band of paper warriors of all clerical ranks,
proportionately rewarded by their country.
An assistant secretary at £lOl2, and a
finance secretary at £lll2, are each worth
more than a brace of flying officers at
£429, a brigadier at £B5O, or a director
of naval reserves at £826. A chief clerk
at £768 is plainly a better military asset
than an air squadron leader at £637.
Values in the Air Force are particularly
interesting, since the average clerk’s pay is
£370, whereas a leading aircraftsman, one
of the most skilled and responsible
mechanics in the world, is paid £l9l. The
Air Force is also strengthened by a finance
officer, who is paid £Bl6, nearly double the
screw of a mere flying officer. This prob-
ably is because he has to do real work in
a stuffy office, whilst the birdman is enjoy-
ing himself aloft in the fresh air.
Paying the Navy, which totals some 3300
sea-going people of sorts, from the Admiral
(at £5 per day) down, is a particularly oner-
ous job. In addition to 28 sea-going pay-
master ranks—who, after all, do more or
less go to sea—there is a paymaster com-
mander in the Naval Board’s office, an-
other at £692 in the secretary’s, two account-
ants at £756 each in the finance branch
under a director of navy accounts at
£962, and a paymaster lieutenant at £522
in the Stores and Victualling Branch. It
will cheer the country up to know that
even if things in the navigation and ballis-
tics lines are a bit weak when the fleet
steams forth against a foreign foe, the
accounts will be correct to a halfpenny.
A similar range of values exists in the
land forces. The chief finance officer,
military, receives £BBB, the chief ordnance
mechanical engineer £654. The secretary
of the Munitions Board gets £Bl6 the
armament inspector £620. which by some
oversight is £8 more than the senior clerk
at the ordnance factories. The account-
ant of the military clothing factory draws
£624, the assistant manager of the ammu-
nition factories £594. A clerk in the
machine-gun factory draws over £2 a week
more than a first-grade n.c.o. on the Royal
Australian Artillery permanent staff.
The clerical strength of our Defence
Department is not much under that of the
permanent commissioned officers. A solid
body of 120-odd, costing £42,000 yearly,
will meet the shock of battle, with the
Military Board, led by a secretary at £648;
and 250 others (£lOO,OOO yearly) will back
them up.
Truly Australia has shown that the Pen
is mightier than the Sword. Duntroon, in
its day amongst the best military colleges
ever created, has gone. Jervis Bay, where
Australia grew a breed of sea officers who
made a lasting name in the war, is a week-
ending haunt for politicians and their pals.
Our Defence system has been wrecked; we
lie open to the first attacker. The pro-
fessional warrior, in fact, has been beaten
to a frazzle. But our clerks, our dogged
clerks, yet hold on. dug in behind Public-
service Acts, their union flags flaunting
proudly against the grev skies of depression.
4
Red 1 Tape Scores Again.
Dear Bulletin, —Recently, on my return
from Queensland to N. S. Wales, someone
who had read my track notes in The
Bulletin wrote and offered me a job. He
was a returned soldier, a planter, who lived
on an island off New Guinea. He said my
paragraphs had appealed to him. He wanted
someone to supervise native labor, and,
though not in a very robust position finan-
cially, he offered a moderate wage—if only
I could get to Papua.
It looked good to me. There (at last)
was a job. There (at last) was occupation.
There (at last) escape from the dole.
Someone said, “Well, here’s £18; go up.and
book your passage—the boat goes on Thurs-
day.” So I went up to Sydney, and to
the shipping office. But the clerk in the
shipping office said, “What about your
bond?” I said, “What bond?” He said,
“Everyone travelling to employment in New
Guinea has to produce a £5O bond, lest he
might, through loss of employment, become
a charge on the Government.” I said, “I
am going to a job. I am already a charge
on the Government here, and have been for
12 months past.” He said, “Sorry. The
rule is rigid.”
So I folded up my 18 bright, crisp, new
notes, and silently stole away—back again
to swell the ranks of the dole-drawers.
Red-tapeism had won another victory.—
Gad.
♦
Eight Months of Langism.
One of the first documents handed to the
new N.S.W. Leg. Assemblymen was a
belatedly-printed report of S. A. Maddocks,
the Transport Commissioner whom Lang
removed; and they must have found it
instructive, especially the section dealing
with the metropolitan and Newcastle Gov-
ernment tramways. The report is for the
year to June 30, 1931, on which date a staff
of 8275 was employed—776o in Sydney.
During the twelvemonth there were net
losses of £433,096 in Sydney and £105,399
in Newcastle; and Maddocks shows how
greatly Langism contributed to these results.
About 7000 employees are working under
awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court—six, no less. These awards provided
for a 48-hour week or a 96-hour fortnight,
pay being fixed accordingly. Lang kindly
gave the whole 7000 the 44-hour week,
debiting the taxpayer with the cost, which
worked out at £69,600 p.a. In November,
1930 (the first Lang month), in February,
1931, and in May of the same year there
were three reductions in the Federal basic
wage, consequent upon falls in the cost of
living. In no case were they applied where
pay would have been brought below the
State basic wage of £4 2s. 6d. a week, with
child endowment added (ss. per week per
child after the first). These presents to
supporters are estimated to have been
worth £28,555 p.a. On January 22. 1931,
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
ordered a general wage reduction of 10 p.c.
This was intended to apply to the 7000
tramwaymen, among others, and it would
have reduced working expenses by “approxi-
mately £170,000 p.a.”; but Lang vetoed it.
Nor when his one-twelfth reduction in
hours automatically brought 362 salaried
officers—on the £3OO p.a. mark in the case
of married men—under Bavin’s Salaries
Reduction Act, providing for a cut of one-
twelfth, would he allow the harassed Com-
missioner to reduce his deficit in this way
by “approximately £9727” for six months.
Maddocks’s representations on these points
apparently cost him his job. At any rate,
he was ordered to make way for C. J.
Goode, whose departmental history is now
being examined by a Royal Commission.
Ninepence in the pound is deducted from
the pay of Government railwaymen and
tramwaymen for superannuation benefits.
It is not nearly enough to meet the charges,
and the taxpayers—who have to insure
themselves at their own expense—had to
supplement it to the extent of £169.889 last
year—in addition, of course, to what they
have to provide for the Government em-
ployees in other departments. And “tram-
way (and raihvay) employees proceeding
on annual leave” are “granted all-lines rail-
way passes,” besides “four ‘privilege’ passes”
p.a. The value of these passes, in respect
of tramwaymen alone, is reckoned at
£148,720 p.a., "an impost that no other
tramway system in Australia is called upon
to meet.” These are obvious, ways in which
the tremendous burden of the railway and
tramway deficits could be lightened with-
out inflicting undeserved hardship : on any-
one. And to refuse taxpayers and customers
of the tramways and railways the benefit
of reductions in the cost of living, when
for year after year they had to meet
every increase as wages and salaries went
up, is a swindle, and nothing else.
4_
Diggers in. Distress.
Dear Bulletin, —The Distress Relief Com-
mittee of the City [Sydney] Sub-branch is
reluctantly compelled to appeal for assist-
ance to alleviate distress amongst returned
soldiers generally—B9 per cent, of our mem-
bers are to-day unemployed! The distress
funds are not sought for our members
alone, but for any ex-Service men who are
in necessitous circumstances. No part of
the funds raised is used in administration;
all executive positions are entirely honor-
ary. We shall very thankfully receive
cheques, money-orders, postal-notes, etc.,
made payable to the City Sub-branch,
R.S.S.I.L.A.—Yours, G. J. Lamb, Hon. Sec.,
Finance Committee.
4
Training in Citizenship.
“Country Ped.”: “X. Cocky” thinks edu-
cation departments should do more to edu-
cate our young people in the proper
relation of the individual to the State
(B. 15/6/ : 32). The trouble with such people
as “X. Cocky” is that they are too ready
to generalise from the particular. The
next time he sees a youth performing an
act of vandalism let him reflect, first on
the thousands of youths who refuse to do
these things, and then on the fact that in
his boyhood days parks and gardens, which
are now not even fenced, were locked every
night. Then he will begin to realise that
the education authorities are giving ad-
equate training in good citizenship. An
ideal cannot, however, be inculcated like an
arithmetical rule; it is an assimilation over
many years through the force of example.
That some fail to reach the goal is not the
fault of the school training. Children are
only school-controlled 25 hours out of the
168 in a week; and, besides, the apparently
average child is not always so—in many
cases he (or she) is slightly but definitely
sub-normal.
4
Proportional Representation.
When the N.S.W. Parliament gets to its
important job of proposing a reformed
Leg. Council for the consideration of the
electors, it will have to seriously consider
some system of proportional representation.
On experience, the single-member constitu-
ency seems best suited to the needs of the
popular Chamber; what follows is to so
redistribute the electors that the second
Chamber shall be the most complete check
possible upon a House elected by precisely
the same people in the aggregate. The
most feasible plan appears to be to divide
the State into large voting districts, and
to choose members on the basis of propor-
tional representation.
The latest example of an election carried
through in this way is supplied by the
Irish Free State. Generally each county is
an electorate: Clare, for example, at the
last elections returned five members, Kerry
seven, Donegal eight; Cork, the largest
county, was divided. In every county the
minority won representation. This had
one very important effect. Under the first-
past-the-post system with single-member
electorates the western counties would have
returned only De Valera men; Dublin and
eastern counties, Cosgrave men. Thus there
would have been another territorial division
of Ireland, with certain bitterness in each
division, because of the non-representation
of a powerful minority.
We have had several examples lately of
“landslides,” and the results have not had
the attention they deserve. In Victoria
and N. S. Wales a few tens of thousands
of votes turned from one main party to the
other, and Labor’s representation was cut
in halves. In the last British electior. the
National party' with 14.500,000 votes won
493 seats; that is to say. every 29,000 votes
meant a seat. Labor polled 6,650,000 votes;
but, since it got only 46 seats, it took
144,000 Labor votes to do what 29,000
Nationalist votes did. Obviously, as in
N. S. Wales and Victoria to-day, Labor
is unfairly under-represented in Britain,
just as it was absurdly over-represented in
all three Legislatures a year ago. In Ireland,
under P.R., the De Valera party won 72
seats with an average of 7900 votes; Cos-
grave’s party won 56 with an average of
8040 votes. P.R. thus prevented any
ridiculous excess of De Valera men.
Besides making it possible for five Farmers
and seven Labor members to be returned,
the system gave the Irish counties a chance
to return Independents who were put for-
ward for special qualities: thus in Dublin,
a stronghold of the Cosgrave party, one
Dockrell headed the poll, but no less than
one-third of those who had marked him
No. 1 marked one or other Independent
No. 2—most of them favoring a solid local
business man with no strong political lean-
ings. The system has its drawbacks, of
course; but if, as is generally claimed,
the chief purpose of a second Chamber is
review, nothing is more important than
that the opinions of minorities should be
submitted and considered.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
£12,000,000.
- - £4,739,012 10
- - 4,300,000 0
- - 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND-
ED WARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, ECS
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all ’other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond! Engagement Kings
mm
wmmm
£3O
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated arc guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
I I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
iliere was _ more than a suggestion of
swelled head in what even the deferential
S. M. Herald” called “Mr, Stevens’s out-
burst at the Premiers’ Conference on Fri-
day. After a couple of days Mr. Lang’s
successor threatened to leave “unless some
definite progress was made.” This was after
other delegates had pointed out difficulties
m the way of doing things just as Mr.
Stevens wanted them done. It will be rather
a pity if the other States get the idea that
N. S. Wales sends only men to conferences
who say, “Well, that’s my plan, and if you
don’t adopt it quick and lively I’m going
home.”
“Mean old bloke, isn’t he? Says six mil-
lion is the bank’s limit. See if we can’t
sting him for another ten million.”
The suspicion that Mr. Stevens is in
danger of having to order a larger size in hats
was increased when the Premiers’ Confer-
ence was talking about squeezing a few more
millions out of the Commonwealth Bank.
“The Conference,” he said, “should not have
to go to the Bank Board. The Bank Board
should be requested to come to the Confer-
ence.” The idea is entirely wrong, anyway.
As a matter of convenience the Bank Board
probably might be asked to meet the poli-
ticians ; but when the politicians claim the
right to “request” the board’s attendance, then
they suggest a power over the board and
the bank which both the board and the
bank must stubbornly resist. We have had
one great bank compelled to close its doors
and do infinite mischief because politicians
had too much authority over those in con-
trol, and we don’t want another.
Jno. Bull has in hand the greatest loan-
conversion scheme of all time. Two thousand
millions of his 5 p.c. war debt is repayable
on Dec. 1 of this year, and he has notified
holders that they can have their money. In
the words of the Chancellor:—
The Government intends to repay the loan in
cash on December 1 to any holder who decides
to apply for repayment within three months from
to-day—that is, not later than September 30.
But it invites them to convert into a new
3i p.c. loan, and undertakes to pay a cash
bonus of 1 p.c. to all who apply by July 31.
The definite undertaking to repay those who
arc not willing or able to convert ought to
make a few Australian politicians blush—
if there is a blush left at Canberra.
About 3,000,000 people hold the 2000 mil-
lions of war debt which the British Govern-
ment is converting from 5 to 31 p.c.; and
on present appearances the operation will be
a huge success. The patriotic fervor which
is being worked up will not do us any harm;
we have 13 millions falling due in November
—one of N.S.W.’s small chickens coming
home to roost. Incidentally, the 2000 mii-
lions is about one-third of Father Bull’s
domestic debt. The entire debt costs Britain
276 millions a year.
While Premier Hill was at Canberra last
week the Federal A.L.P. delegates were at
Adelaide discussing the possibility of restor-
ing peace to his shattered party. They
gave it up as a bad job after it had been
formally reported that the Hill group had
ignored their absurd injunction that it
should appeal from Cmsar to Caesar— i.e.,
from the State A.L.P. executive, which ex-
pelled it. to the same State A.L.P. execu-
tive. Hill’s offence lay in supporting the
Premiers’ plan, which they themselves
accepted, so they could scarcely declare, in
the familiar jargon, that he had thereby
“automatically placed himself outside ‘the
movement’ ” ; but they pronounced him and
his followers guilty of an offence against
discipline, and let the punishment stand.
So there are still three Labor factions in
the local Parliament, and branches of the
State A.L.P. are defying the Adelaide bosses
at a great rate. All this with a general
election due in nine months at latest.
The Federal A.L.P. executive showed one
flash of spirit in Adelaide; it refused to
summon an inter-State “unity” conference
to which Lang and his heelers, were, of
course, to be invited. That would mean a
complete surrender to Langism. and “the
movement” might not survive it for any
length of time. There are now fewer Labor
men (both factions) in the House of Reps,
than there have been for 28 years, and for
the first time since Reid’s day Labor is
the weakest of the three parties in the
N.S.W. Leg Assembly. And Lang is chiefly
responsible.
Queensland’s new Labor Government has
begun its policy of economy by suspending
the provisions of a Moore Act giving the
Industrial Court power to vary State awards
in particular industries. As a result of these
variations many people who could not other-
wise have been given employment found
steady jobs. The change will mean that a
lot of them will go on the dole again, and,
award or no award, they would rather be
working.
Victoria has spent £24,591,216 of good bor-
rowed money on irrigation works and
£19,474,792 on the State electricity scheme;
and only a fraction has been repaiu. Allow-
ing that it is a much smaller concern the
Wonthaggi State coalmine makes a far better
showing; of £250,000 put into it but £76,190
is owing. All the same, the mine isn’t pay-
ing, and the railway commissioners, who
control it, have taken steps to have wages
revised by a State tribunal, the Federal
award having been set aside. If McKenzie,
the local member, insists by way of retalia-
tion on having the irrigation and electricity
concerns placed on a more business-like foot-
ing the taxpayers won’t heave bricks at him.
Cheered on by Lang’s newspaper, which
hails him as a “patriot” demanding “jus-
tice” who has issued a challenge to “sus-
pect courts,” De Valera has defaulted on
the land annuities, as Lang defaulted on
interest. Thomas, Secretary for the Domi-
nions, describes the annuities as “legal and
moral obligations accepted by the represen-
tatives of the Irish people”; Lang’s news-
paper says this is all humbug, and De Valera
is meeting “the bankers” on “their own
ground.” Its new idol won’t ericounter an
Enforcement Bill, as its boss did, but if he
doesn’t climb down he will lose the British
tariff preferences in which the Free State
shares as part of the Empire, and will have
to reckon with retaliatory duties. And if
the great British market for Irish farm pro-
duce goes he will find even friendly Uncle
Sam putting in a claim for a piece of it.
All the world has farm produce to sell, and
there is no sentiment in this sort of business.
Having by stupidity and arrogance made
it impossible for the Hogan Government to
win the State election, Victoria’s A.L.P.
executive has expelled Hogan, ex-Ministers
Iviernan and Williams, M’s.L.C., and Bond,
M.L.A., for having supported the Premiers’
JIMMY: “I’m sorry for Ned, hut I’d better
not he too sorry. One of those brutes
in there said ‘Scullin’s nobody’s dog.'”
plan contrary to its mudheaded instructions.
The majority for dropping the old pilot and
his associates was nearly two to one. So
the party, which used to have 30 members
m the Assembly and six in the Council, has
now 14 and two respectively; and the tinpot
tyrants who did the mischief remain to do
more.
De Valera now proposes to refer his re-
pudiation of the land-purchase debt to' arbi-
trators, and in a spirit of fairness is willing
to nominate them—two Irishmen, two Eng-
lishmen and Hertzog. The British say that,
as in Lang’s case, there is nothing to arbi-
trate about; they guaranteed the land-pur-
chase loan, and if De Valera intercepts the
money they themselves must pay or repu-
diate. It seems hardly worth De Valera’s
while to risk so much to gain so little. At
one time the landlord was handy for shoot-
ing, but he isn’t now.
“According to Mr. Lang’s newspaper, Premier
Forgan Smith ‘wilted’ at Canberra —‘submitted to
the banks’ and ‘meekly committed his Government
and people to the hideous Premiers’ plan.’ On
the other hand, Premier Mitchell’s attitude was
‘spirited,-’ ‘definite’ and ‘staunch.’”
“I’ve done with yous, see! I’m goin' ter
he cobbers with little Jimmy.”
The state of parties in Queensland influ-
enced Forgan Smith’s attitude at Canberra,
which infuriated the Langsters by being con-
ciliatory. Out-back returns enabled Ivenny
to retain the Cook seat, after his Labor
opponent Gardner had had a fair lead. And
Alf Jones, who was Forgan Smith’s col-
league in the McCormack Ministry, failed
by 1500 votes or so to wrest Hamilton from
Russell. So the Smith Government will have
a majority of three when it makes Pollock
Speaker. No Labor Premier who has to
depend on three “comrades” can go trailing
his coat these times.
_ Defence Minister Pearce distinguished
himself, in a fashion, by complaining about
the cost of searching for the German air-
men, who have been found in West-
ralia’s northern wastes. His paltry growl
was scarcely published before it was
announced that Germany would foot the
bill. There are no boundaries between
nations when rescue work is demanded, or
there should be none; even a Soviet ship
nobly held to marine traditions recently by
saving scores of passengers off a French
mailboat ablaze in the Red Sea. And Aus-
tralia lias cause to be grateful to other coun-
tries, the Netherlands especially, for assist-
ance freely given when Australian airmen
have been lost or mislaid in Dutch colonial
territory.
The announcement that the permanent
artillerymen at Thursday Island are being
transferred to Darwin will surprise no one
acquainted with the policy of maintaining
huge oil fuel reserves there for naval use. An
oil depot is a vulnerable spot, and since
that at Darwin must be the base for naval
operations against possibilities from the
north, adequate defence against raiding
parties is imperative. But all the pre-
cautions taken may be futile unless speedy
communications enabling reinforcements to
be rushed up from the south are provided.
The North-South railway must be completed.
The two U.S. parties tend to agree for
once—that after 14 years’ trial liquor pro-
hibition has proved a failure. Other nations
have made the same experiment and come to
the same conclusion —generally in less time
than it took Uncle to decide. Wherever it
pays lavishly to break a law a multitude
of ugly law-breakers will want to retain
that law so that they may make money by
breaking it. The mass of decent American
people seem to have come to the conclusion
that they are maintaining prohibition to
enrich the criminal classes, and Uncle’s
criminals are a very numerous and horrible
lot.
W. C. L. Townsend, a city lawyer who
lives in the electorate, is making a tremen-
dous effort against odds to capture the Carl-
ton seat for the U.A.P. He is better known
than Barry, the Trades Hall nominee, but
the very idea of overturning the Labor
majority in Carlton would have seemed
grotesque a few months ago. The third man,
Dr. O’Dea, calls himself a Communist, but
could, his intimates claim, be more correctly
described as an ultra-humanist.
Some of the “sports” who hang on to the
coat-tails of Australian Labor have been
active in Queensland since the Smith Gov-
ernment got in. One proposal is to remove
control of racing from the Q.T.C. arid place
it under a board. There are cushy jobs in
it, and a glorious issue of free tickets. An
open go for proprietary concerns is also
talked of, and a faint aroma of tin hare
begins to be smelt. Sydney “Telegraph” has
discovered dour fighting qualities in Forgan
Smith. A timely display of stubbornness
in these matters might save his party from
large quantities of trouble.
Lang’s newspaper gives a harrowing
account of Davies, his Minister of Educa-
tion. When the Boss defied Commonwealth
law in the noble cause of default, Davies
was his most boisterous champion. Strong
men paled and old ladies screamed when
Davies challenged Lyons and his minions to
come and get chewed up by Lang’s police.
It transpires that the Terrible Feller was
all the time laboring under “a terrific
strain.” So “to avoid the serious conse-
quences of a probable nervous breakdown,
following a strenuous term in office, and a
gruelling election,” he is going away in a
steamer, where the tin-hare couches not and
there are no royal-commission reports to
spoil the morning meal.
The native is not dying out in Torres
Strait. On one island, B'adu, where the
abo. blood has Samoan and Malay admix-
tures, the population has doubled itself in
something under 20 years. Males outnumber
the females. Figures at the last local
census were: Men, 132; women, 100 ; boys,
122; girls, 104.
Despite a union protest the Vic. Cabinet
is reverting to the system of paying railway
employees for suggestions and inventions.
Ex-Minister Cain, who generally tried to
humor the A.R.U., abolished these premiums.
Reinstatement of the butty-gang and piece-
work methods jettisoned by the Hogans is
also being considered by Menzies.
A.L.P. diehards are passing resolutions to
the effect that they will “follow Lang to the
last ditch.” But hasn’t the gentleman
dragged them into it already? The Governor
asked him not to declare war on the Gover-
nor-General by ordering his State officials to
disobey a Federal law. Lang could have
backed out politely ; with nothing to gain save
the satisfaction of being rude, he forced a.
crisis. As a result 31 Langsters lost their seats
and their salaries, and may never see them
again. The Goode inquiry and the tin-hare
investigation came about. The “Labor Daily”
has to struggle along without its Govern-
ment subsidy and its tipster advts., which
have been banned by the new Government.
The suspended Industrial Commission gets
going again. There is prospect of a new
municipal electoral roll for Sydney with the
lodger franchise cut out. The movement for
the subdivision of N.S.W. into smaller and
more manageable. States shows animation, and
the great State insolvency scheme has gone
into the discard. In fact, Lang pulled down
the whole building on his own head and
on top of his devoted followers some IS
months before it was due to fall through
old age, and did the Samson act through
sheer rage and bad manners.
“It is expected that Mr. W. M. Hughes, travelling
north, will pass that slightly less eminent Welsh
politician, Mr. A. C. Willis, travelling south.”
“Thought, you’d he coming to London as
High Commissioner.”
“Thought you’d he staying as Agent-Gen-
eral.”
“Don’t leeks taste awful when they make
you eat ’em?’
The resurrection of Queensland’s Mount
Morgan goldmine recalls some old history. It
was in September, 1925, that a mob took
possession of the mine in the name of Karl
Marx. When it had finished rioting in the
cause the forest of timber underground was
discovered to be on fire. The yearly output
straightway dropped from 76,5520 z. to
33,9810 z., and it never recovered. If the
resuscitated venture is to succeed, mobs and
Marxians will have to be kept off the
premises.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
;;; -e
“Craiser” : The cafe pianist Avas banging-
out excerpts from “II Trovatore,” when a
sour-looking diner beckoned to a waiter.
“Does this chap play by request?” “Cer-
tainly, sir,” was the reply. “Well, ask him
to play dominoes,” said the client dourly.
:1c ❖ :Jc
“Pawang” : The nude cult had hardly got
into its stride in this country before science,
which provided one of the chief props to its
platform, unkindly stole the support away.
The nudists, not having the courage or lack-
ing the good conscience to say that to take
one’s clothes off is a natural and delightful
thing, have always claimed medical justifi-
cation for their cult*. The sun, it is averred,
contains elements so essential to health that
it is uneconomic, as Avell as unhygienic, not
to avail oneself of them to the fullest extent.
Well, they needn’t worry any more. A
wicked physicist has discovered radiostoleum,
a synthetic compound with a colossal vita-
min B content. So rich is it in the sub-
stance that people can live quite comfort-
ably and healthily in the dark. So the
nudists need not be nude any more. They
can just sit at home and eat their sunshine
out of a spoon.
* * *
“Lord Luvus” ; It isn’t often that evidence
concerning the past record of an offender
proffered by a policeman helps him in the
subsequent judgment, but a case happened
in Melbourne the other day when a man was
found guilty of burgling a grocery store.
The e\’idence was that the accused some five
years ago happened to be present when a
Constable Dodds, of Brunswick, was set
on by three ruffians, and saved him from
being kicked to death. A crowd had gathered
and looked on Avith the usual lively interest,
but the potential burglar intervened, res-
cued the constable and helped to detain tAvo
of his attackers. In the circumstances
’Sonah reckoned a bond to abstain from
drink and bad behavior for five years would
be adequate.
* * * *
“Sol M.” : A bank robbery in the neighbor-
hood oif Chicago had some interesting features.
The jury didn’t convict Danny McGeoghagan,
a well-known criminal, for if they had done
so they would have been shot with some of
the weapons in the arsenal of Danny’s gang,
purchased out of the money made with the
profits of illicit grog, but they risked their
lives so far as to disagree. Then the State
Attorney asked the Court to dismiss the
prisoner without any further trial. He said
the . witnesses who had rashly identified
Daniel at the first trial had been locked
up ever since for their oavu safety, and
the bank had had to pay their salaries and
lose their services, all because they had
seen D. Geoghagan get away Avith a miserable
50,000 dollars. Their families Avere also
locked up for fear of kidnapping, which
sometimes had fatal results. The State
Attorney submitted that this couldn’t go on
for ever, and a conviction was A’ery unlikely
now that Daniel’s well-armed gang Avas
thoroughly roused. So the Court reluctantly
dismissed Daniel, who left the premises with
a smile on his evil countenance. No wonder
liquor prohibition is falling into disfavor.
A Twentieth Amendment of Uncle Hoover’s
Constitution for the prohibition of private
firearms may be about due.
"X.S.”: The need for some
variety of technique in deal-
ing with the preliminary
examinations of drunks at
■yyatcli-houses Avas exemplified
in a case in Melbourne the
other day. It appeared in
evidence that a gentleman
arrested for being inebriated
while in charge of a motor-
car gave a perfect rendition
of “British Constitution”
before a medical mair-when
he arrived at police head-
quarters. “But then,” re-
marked the witnessing con-
stable aggrievedly, “he was
practising the words all the
way there!”
* * *
“Intus Si Recte”: One of
the mysteries of fashion Avas
the sudden disappearance of
the straw “boater” hat, which
for 40 years prior to the
war was the favorite head-
gear in warm weather of the
young and old of both sexes.
It has come back just as
quickly as it Avent. Half
the women at the recent
-vseot meeting are said to
have Avorn them, and Eng-
land has burgeoned in a day
with the forgotten lids. The
reason was simple. The
Prince of Wales attended the
fiftieth anniversary of the
shifting of Shrewsbury
School from the old toAvn to
Kingsland across the Severn,
and he chose to do it in a
“stror ’at.” Prior to the
revival the onlv straws seen
in England were the freak
contraptions worn at Harrow
School, which have to be kept
on Avith a band of elastic
round the back of the head.
* * *
“Old Timer”: Passed out
on June .”0, the “Otago Wit-
ness.” affectionately known
as the “Old Reliable.” It
was established in ISSI and
never changed its color or its policy. During
its SO years it had some memorable editors,
notably George Matthews and William Fen-
wick. The last of the line, J. T. Paul (at
one time M.L.C.), put up a great fight, but
the stressful times were too many for him.
* * * *
“I).”: The t.Avo most truculent and boorish
people of my acquaintance in Sydney are
fruiterers —a youngish Dago and an oldish
Chow. The Dago is liable to roar at one
furiously in connection Avith an insignificant
deal in, say, bananas, and the Chow sells his
wares with an air of tired contempt which is
disconcerting, not to say humiliating. I have
never heard either say “Thank you.” Are
fruiterers made fierce instead of gentle by
their vegetarian calling? Obviously not.
Fruiterers in Italy have the suavest manners,
the mildest voices; and they are almost em-
barrassingly humble in China. So it must be
something in the Sydney air. I am all for
equality, and against master-races, master-
classes. and so on, but cases like these make
me despair. Immediately most members of a
subject-race or -class cease to be kicked they
become more arrogant than a war-time
British brass-hat.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Tommy Walker learned more
™ / ,oi\ Uoration from Jolm Norton (B.
-.'/(>/.>2), and out-Nortoned his mentor
m the gentle art of calling names,
tommy s most vehement effort in headlines
—still remembered in a Perth newspaper
office—was reached over 25 years ago on tin'
eve of a general election, when ' the out-
going Administration was labelled in scream-
ing letters, over three solid columns of de-
nunciation. “A Cabinet of Cunning Crimi-
nals. If may be doubted if even Norton
Avould have risked anything so unashamedly
THE HABIT.
MOTHER (going to church ): “Now, good-bye, darling. I’ll be home soon after the
service.”
JESSIE: “ Good-bye, Mummy, an’ I hope God will like your new dress.”
libellous as that; there was some talk of
a criminal prosecution, but the Government
had a lot of other things on its hands, and
seeing, as somebody said, that it was “only
Tommy Walker,” the matter was allowed to
drop. For all his pen-proficiency at vitriolic
abuse, Tommy was in private life as mild
and amiable and charitable a man as ever
taught elocution or lectured on “The Fall
of the- Bastille.”
* * >1: *
“II.M.”: Time Avas Avhen the hangman
Avas something of a public character, his
frequent professional appearances prevent-
ing anonymity. To-day, in Australia, at
all events, he has become a mystery man.
To him five of the States between them pay
£lOO p.a. as a retainer, with a special fee
guaranteed whenever his services are re-
quired. After executing the murderer
Rowles at Perth last, month, the unknown
left immediately for Sydney, Avhere the next
demand for him is expected. Outside of
police and prison authorities no one is aware
of his identity.
“Castro” : Alleged par-
ticipants in bygone causes
celebres crop up in Aus-
tralia occasionally; if
hardly as frequent as
bogus noblemen, they are
often quite as hazy
about hard facts. A
Perth paper unearthed an
Ethel Le Neve (living in
poor circumstances under
an assumed name) in that
city the other day and
published what purported
to be an interview with
Crippen’s typist, who was
tried and acquitted 22
years ago on the charge
of being accessory to the
murder of Crippen’s wife.
Most of the details fur-
nished were correct; Crip-
pen and the woman (dis-
guised in boy's clothing}
bolted on a Canadian
liner and were the very
first persons wanted ay
the Law to be sleuthed
and identified Itm wireless,
then in its infancy. But
there was a large hole in
the lady’s story when she
represented the pair as
being trans-shipped to an
English-bound liner in
mid-ocean. Actually the
skipper, after satisfying
himself of his passengers’
identity, carried them
then on to their destina-
tion ; they were not
arrested until their
arrival on the Canadian
side. A lot of plausible
stories break down be-
cause of a little super-
fluous embroidery.
“Adelaide”: S. Aus. has developed a frugal
way of putting very old hulls intq connnis-
sion again for coasting trips. The Moorara,
of Port Adelaide, was once a barge up the
Murray; and now the Uribes. English-built
in 1868 and long engaged in Australia’s
sugar trade with Mauritius, has had its
sound hull rescued from the gravc-of-ships
and been fitted up for local Spencer’s Gulf
work. Also Mellwraith McEaclmrns have
accepted a local tender for fixing up the
Milluna. lately towed in 700 miles across
the Australian Bight with a lOiu. tail-shaft
broken.
“Bloggs”: A controversy raged recently
in the “S. M. Herald” between Mary Gil-
more and F. A. Napier, in which the gentle-
man complained that Australia’s slanguage
was being vitiated by Americanisms, and the
lady pointed out that all those complained of
(“yeah,” “bo,” “mo,” “baby,” “kid,” etc.)
are of English origin. The joke is that high-
brow Americans are always complaining of
the importation of these very expressions by
U.S.A. Anglophiles. “Kid,” which is a
comparatively recent arrival in the U.S.A.,
is a case in point. Thirty years ago it was
used of boys by slightly older boys in all
English public schools, and was also' popular
among middle-class lovers as a term of en-
dearment. So Avas “baby.” The disastrous
result may be seen in London in the form of
scores of 15-stone middle-aged “Babies” to
this day. Americans of the old school wore
proud of the Saxon simplicity of their lan-
guage (they still use many words, such as
"gotten” for “got,” which have died out in
England), and they resented the German-
isms which were introduced by writers like
REALISM ,
“What do you consider your most convincing piece of
acting?”
“Well, I once told a press agent I just loathed publicity—
and he didn’t give me any.”
Mencken (“beer-stein,” “gab-fest,” etc.) as
bitterly as they did the invading Englishisms
which people who don’t know England call
Americanisms. But they are beating the air.
They only kept overseas expressions out
when their language was virtually dead
owing to America’s remoteness from world-
culture. Now it is Europeanised, and, like
England, it must be prepared to take over
hundreds of foreign words year by year,
Most of these importations soon fall into
disuse, by the way. How often are the
French expressions of the war years heard
in Australia nowadays?
HELP FOR THE HATTERS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Hatmakers’ Association of N.S.W. is seeking
the co-operation of the Hatmakers’ Union in an
appeal to women to refuse to go out with hatless
men.”
O ladies Avith lords or with lot'ers,
If you list you may lighten the pains
Of the craftsmen who fashion the covers
For the heads of your spouses or swains.
There are few but have one or the other
That are theirs to command or persuade,
And, ev’n if it’s only a brother,
Example will aid.
This nult of the hatless and capless,
This craze for the caput that’s bare,
I waves hatters all helpless and hapless,
A prey to despond and despair.
Do they think, as their number increases,
These knuts who have nix on tlieir nobs,
Of the toilers their airy caprice is
Depriving of jobs?
Not much. They have heard not nor heeded.
So comes it the hands that excel
At rocking the cradle are needed
For roofing the rocker as Avell.
You can do more than summer-time seasons
Or storm-winds that whistle and hiss.
You can do it-—for obvious reasons.
Start in on him, Sis !
Though his locks be as comely and curly
As ever Adonis’s were
(Or Absalom’s), get to him, girlie,
And veto his flaunting them bare.
Though his “wave” Avaken memories, pronto,
Of the swell of a languorous sea,
Yoil can make him go tiled, if you want to,
You take it from me.
SHIPMATES.
EFFUSIVE LADY: “Oh, no, that was my daughter. But
she took her good looks from me, I believe.”
RUDE MAN: “Humph! Seems to have made a pretty
good, job of it, too.”
What matter the make of liis motor
Or the lure of the moments that melt
If he mocks at the bowler or boater
And frets at the feel of the felt?
However hard-boiled or hard-bitten,
I’ll bet you he’ll do as lie’s bid,
If he knows that you'll give him the mitten
When minus a lid.
Divert him, you Dots and you Daisies,
From this thoughtlessly trade-wrecking
game,
And the hatters shall trumpet your praises
The factories ring with your fame....
And, if ever you contemplate flutters
Sans bonnets or berets or toques,
We'll utilise sim’lar rebutters
Lest milliners put up the shutters,
We masculine bloques.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.Q.” : Melbourne has just had its cold-
est spell for 50 years. A southerly gale
blew snow all over the State, and motorists
even in the western district drove for hours
through a countryside mantled in white.
Then the breeze went round to the south and
the imported freeze was blown back again.
For the first time iu the oldest navigator’s
recollection, ships entered the bay with a
foot of snow on their decks, and the fact
that the deer released in the south-east of
the State have become sufficiently acclima-
tised to multiply exceedingly was brought
home to residents in the near-by foothills
when they found starving herds browsing
in their gardens. One reason given for the
phenomenal cold is the Panama Canal.
According to one geographical expert this
has diverted the Gulf Stream. The English
climate is said to have been affected, and
masters of ocean liners have reported floes
and icebergs in latitudes where they had
never previously been seen.
=:= * * *
“Oxmead”: Somebody revived in Sydney
the other day a hoax or form of annoyance
first perpetrated by Theodore Hook. At a
MarrickviUe dairyman’s factory there arrived
in quick succession an ambulance, two fire
brigades, ten taxicabs (ordered to take people
to a surprise party), a waggon from the
Lunacy Department, 100 roosters in crates,
several tons of firewood, a selection of motor-
cycles, a van with apparatus for killing cock-
roaches and a selection of other assorted
ADDITIONAL
“I’ve just been up to see the mater—and hear her recount all
her ailments.”
"Gee. you’re lucky. She always multiplies ’em for me.”
goods. Also the ’phone rang at intervals to
emit a loud “Ha! Ha!” from some uniden-
tifiable ass, presumably the joker. If the
police lay him by the heels, it will be inter-
esting to see what penalties the Law pro-
vides for this form of humor. The last
victim of it that one recalls in London was
the late Henry Ijabouchere, and that was
about 1890. At his house one morning there
arrived sufficient vehicles to block all ordin-
ary traffic. Two hearses and two mourning
coaches, had been engaged to head the pro-
cession,. which included vans laden with
every kind of costly furniture, coal in tons,
beer, wine and spirits sufficient to stock a
hotel, billiard tables, carpets and a vast
assortment of other goods, topped off with
a wedding-cake and an umbilical belt.
Labby, after pointing out in “Truth” that
tradesmen, not himself, were the sufferers
from this _ sort of silliness, found some
characteristic copy in the incident. He
wrote :
Neither of the hearses came, owing to represen-
tatives of the firms having taken the precaution to
call to find how many men would be required to
carry my corpse downstairs. Otherwise the mutes
would probably have disputed in which I was to be
moved off, and would have had to appeal to me,
eating my marriage cake and arrayed in my umbilical
belt, to indicate a preference.
The “humorist” turned out to be a member
of one of London’s oldest and mdst exclu-
sive clubs.
“Churchwarden”: “Gwi” suggests that
cigarettes were in use in Britain long before
the Crimean War (B. 29/6/’32), and quotes
It. D. Blackmore, who makes Tom Faggus
in “Lorna Doone” roll his cigarette; but is
Blackmore an authority? Certainly, neither
the writings nor the illustrations of the
eighteenth century and the first half of the
nineteenth give a hint of the paper cylinder,
though' pipes are plentiful in both. There
is no mention in Steele, Addison, Johnson,
Boswell, Goldsmith and the rest of cigar-
ettes, though the pipe is a commonplace.
Hogarth, Morland, Giiray and a host, of
others, including the comparative moderns
Cruickshank and “Phiz,” drew thousands of
pipes, but never a “fag.” Dickens’s and
Thackeray’s and Surtees’s characters smoked
cigars as well as pipes, but there is no
mention of cigarettes. Take “Punch,” the
mirror of its times. Reference to early-
bound volumes will show that Leech, de-
picter of pipes and cigars, never drew a
subject smoking a cigarette, even in flu-
days after the Crimea.
“Strict Veg.”: Most Melbourne shop-
keepers keep a lethal weapon of some sort
underneath their counters as a lifebelt for
breasting the crime wave, usually a revolver.
An Indian herbalist in West Melbourne is
more original. He keeps a naked sword
handy.
“Cauboy”: One example of conservatism
on the stage is the habit grand-opera heroes
and heroines have of slapping their hearts
and heads, relying presumably on the tradi-
tion that the head is the seat of the intel-
lect and the heart of the emotions. But
there was never any real justification for
such belief. When a Malay is deeply stirred
he pounds his liver, not his heart. He speaks,
not of heartfelt emotion, but of liverfelt
emotion. The writer of the “Song of Solo-
mon” disregarded both these organs. “And
my bowels were moved for him,” he remarks.
Now science has disclaimed any knowledge
as to where the feelings arise or what rela-
tion the brain bears to the mind or even
that there is such a thing as the mind. Some
of the glands work overtime in moments of
emotion, so a really up-to-date actor could
clasp his hands over his adrenalins—if he
knew where they were.
❖ ❖ Sje
“Bloggs" : Someone wrote the other day :
“You never see a jockey with spectacles. ’
It’s true; for
some illogical
reason a jockey
would be almost
laughed off his
mount if he did
a preliminary
canter in specs.
Public opinion
also rejects be-
spectacled traf-
fic policemen,
though, ITeaven
knows, some of
them need aids
to vision badly
enough. I have
never seen a
British or Aus-
tralian naval
officer under flag-
rank in glasses,
yet one sees
plenty of com-
manders a n d
lienteuan t s
wearing them in
the U.S.A navy.
Three officers
out of five in
f h e technical
units' of the
French ar m y
come on parade
in nose-pincli-
ers ; not one in
ten in their
British equiva-
lents. I never
saw a Guards,
R. 11. A. o r
R.F.C. officer in
specs, during the
best part of two
years o.a.s. m
France. A few T
years ago no
club servants in
the West End
of London (bar-
ring hall-port-
ers), and no
club or restau-
ra n t waiters,
were allowed to
we a r glasses
while on duty,
and only' comic
characters and
dodderer s
sported them on
the stage. But
they’re changing all that. In a British
talkie now being shown in Sydney. Denis
Neilson-Terry, as the hero, makes passion-
ate love in a pair of horn-rims,
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The fact that a fine of
10 shillings imposed on a motorist for not
giving a hand-signal on turning to the right
was the first of its kind in Victoria suggests
that the Government is missing a fruitful
way of balancing its budget. There are
only three simple signs to be learnt by the
Melbourne driver, yet not one motorist in
10 uses them properly. The popular method
is to hang the right hand negligently out
of ; the window. This means that the owner
is either going to pull up, draw in to the
left, turn to the right (or to the left), is
feeling for the rain, shaking the ash off a
cigarette or pointing out the scenery to a
passenger. He may also be beckoning you to
7°™° °jb. buL this suggests almost incred-
ible solicitude for other road-users.
i » .
feeima : A part explanation of why
Loyalty favors a beard or moustache (B.
29/6/’B2) is .given by a Maoriland woman,
an ex-nurse, who in pre-war years was in
;i leading hotel at Nice lookin''- after- the
w ifc of an Italian minor prince The dav
, */, J , ! , T y ly
alter then- arrival, all the hotel guests but
themselves were transferred to another hotel
run by the same management, the reason
being that tho Emperor of Austria, the late
Franz .Tosef, had booked a suite for a few
days. That night three previously bearded
or moustaclie'd waiters arrived clean-shaven,
explaining to interested inquirers tliaf flu'
etiquette of Nice hotels demanded that there
must be no competition with visiting Royalty
in the matter of face upholstery. Asked by
the much-amused Maorilander what would
happen if a clean-shaven European potentate
arrived and wanted to be unique, the waiter
merely shrugged and said it could be man-
aged, with a theatrical outfit and gelatine.
A PROBLEM FOR THE DOCTOR.
MOTHERE: “The doctor brought me a little brother for you at ten o’clock last night.”
TOMMY: “Gee, what would daddy have done if you’d gone to the pictures and left
him at home?”
“M.” : “Dun Laoghaire Harbor,” said the
“Sun,” "was ablaze with flags when the
Papal Legate arrived.” It is a variant on
the saying that you have to leave home to
learn the news. The Irish papers refer to
the town that was Kingstown before “the
coldness” as Dunleary, and for a good rea-
son. Outside the Gaelic League not one Free
State inhabitant in fifty dreams of speaking
Erse. It is nominally the national language,
and railway stations, streets and the like
have their names shown in Erse as well as
in the language of the oppressor, but, after
years of intensive propaganda, the people are
as wedded to English as ever. Inside the
past 10 years the Southern Irish have got
rid of institutions which represented the
work of over seven centuries of Anglicisa-
tion, but it is clear that they are never going
to get rid of the English tongue. A good
language is like a good girl: you can’t
keep it down.
“Monophysite” : Interesting in the cabled
accounts of the Eucharistic Congress in
Dublin was the appearance of Archbishop
Ivanois as leader of a section of the Jaco-
bite Church which returned to the Roman
Catholic fold a few years ago. The Arch-
bishop had his headquarters at Bethany,
which is on the road between Jerusalem
and Jericho, as many Light Horsemen will
remember. The Jacobites parted brass rags
with Rome centuries since. Their sect was
founded by Jacobus Baradaous, a monk of
Constantinople, about a.d. GOO. It is scat-
tered throughout Syria and Mespot, the
Patriarch residing at Aleppo.
* * *
“Jeames” : At last I know where to put
my finger, should the impulse move me, on
that most elusive
member of the com-
munity a “wealthy
Australian m a n.”
One F. Scamonds, a
clot hing manufac-
turer, said on his re-
turn from the U.S.A.
last week: “In Aus-
tralia, only wealthy
men own four suits.”
On the same day tuc
Federal Arbitration
Court, among a num-
ber of other fixations,
decided that an
actor’s wardrobe
must consist of “one
sac suit, one dress
suit, one boating-
suit, one walking
suit (morning or
frock coat).” The
Court also disclosed
the financial position
of the owner of these
garments, viz., “£4 a
week when not on
tour and £4 10s. when
on tour.” When I
ma ke contact with one
of these wealthy £4-a-
week Australian men
I mean to ask him to
don his boating suit,
or his frock coat, and
show me one of the
beautiful sexagena-
rian society women,
and exclusive Gov-
ernment House fre-
quenter? who keep
getting divorce and
bankruptcy publicity
in the papers. lie
ought to be a good
judge of anomalies.
«•* it*
“T.P.” : The pluckiest man in one sphere
may easily become an arrant coward in
another. As a boy in ’7B in Daylesford,
I watched a half-drunken sailor shin up
the highest flagpole in the town —a shaky
contraption on top of a pub—to adjust a
rope. Boniface gave him a. sovereign. Next
day the sailor was taken down the Cornish
mine, where everything was up-to-date and
perfectly safe. The moment the cage sank
.Tack went to pieces, howled to be let out,
and almost collapsed when the drive was
reached. The cap’ll of the shift sent him
up at once; but as he had half-strangled
me in his agitation coming down, I dodged
the job of being his escort.
« * * *
“Shep”: “Strict Veg.” (B. 29/6/’32)
wonders what the Customs are doing with
confiscated books. Maybe they’re saving
them up for another war. If the library
donated to the Suffolk for our trip home is
any guide, the English used Customs-
banned books for the entertainment of
troops getting out of their country. A
padre of ours elected himself librarian, but
after glancing through his stock, lots of it
translations of Zolaesque stuff regarded as
too strong for British consumption, he tossed
in the job. The opening of the library drew
only a very modest queue. Next.day there
weren’t enough books to go around. '
“Chevroford”: Melbourne has taken to the
pushbike with the same enthusiasm as Syd-
ney, though two years ago the method of
transportation had become so archaic that.
I heard an audience at a picture show burst
into uncontrollable laughter when a news
gazette showed Christchurch (M.L.) pedal-
ling its way home from business. The Queen
City has an advantage over Sydney in that
it is comparatively flat, while the bills can
easily be negotiated by the cyclist clinging
on to a motor-car. I know one business man
no longer able to run a car who does not
let this fact interfere with his customary
jaunt to the hills o’ Sundays, He goes up
on a service car with his vehicle strapped
behind, and after inhaling the crystal air of
the mountain summits, coasts down in ease
and comfort. There are several routes which
give an effortless descent of three to six
miles provided one’s brakes are good.
“Nakh”: During the regime of Lemmon,
the Labor Minister for Education, Kipling's
“The English Flag” disappeared from the
Vic. State school reader and “Hiawatha"
took its. place. This was interpreted as indicat-
ing Red influence or something of the sort. It
is now explained that Kipling himself was
DEPRAVED WIT.
“‘Do I get a fur coat this winter?' says I. ‘Fur from it,’ says he.
Which might be a joke, but is a mighty poor joke on me.”
responsible for the omission. It seems that
the compilers of the work suddenly discovered
that the lines “The poor little street-bred
children that vapor and fume and bras, They
are lifting their heads in the stillness to
yelp at the English Hag,” were lacking in
urbanity, especially when linked with the
couplet:—
Must we borrow a clout from the Boer to plaster
anew with dirt,
An Irish liar’s bandage or an English coward's
shirt ?
So they wrote to Kipling about it. lie
replied that they must take the whole poem
or none of it, so they threw the Jot but.
MORNING AT THE HOTEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
What time the sun peeps through the cane
verandah-blind,
And magpies warble on the dewy lea,
I wake and wonder how a man can stand a
blind
That won't keep out the light —and morn-
ing tea!
Too early to get up, too late to sleep again,
I ask a silent question of my watch,
Then down into the woolly depths I creep
again.
This bed cost me five shillings—and I’m
Scotch.
S.A.
G. H. SOUTER.


WINTER 1932
s
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
COMPANY LIMITED
THE SHELL
S 1272
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Harper, who died last week at just-on
80, was the first N.S.W. Chief Railway Com-
missioner who climbed right up the depart-
mental ladder. He was traffic manager for
years before he joined the Commission in Tom
Johnson’s day. It was during his reign that
the politicians and the unions began to get
hold of the department. Just after he
retired, and when he was looking foi-ward to
a perfect orgy of golf and gardening, he had
a stroke, from which he never completely
recovered. Somebody commiserated with
him. “Y T es,” he said, “it’s not what I ex-
pected. Still. I think I’d rather be John
Harper than Jimmy FraseT.” James Fraser,
his old friend, had succeeded him.
Chas. Barrett, whose recently-published
“Australian Birds and Blossoms” has proved
an outsize in best sellers, is a Melbourne
pressman. Cameliers and Light Horsemen
will remember Barrett as one of the editors
of the “Kia Ora Coo-ee,” that circulated
anywhere between Cairo and Jerusalem ; his
co-editor was Harry Gullett, now Minister
for Customs. Since the war, Barrett’s quest
for local book-color has taken him from the
Gippsland bush to the wilds of North Queens-
land.
Lord Dudley, who has died at 65, had
much the same experience in Sydney as Sir
Philip Game. As Governor-General (he was
G.-G. for three years, 1908-11) he backed
a Labor Government. The bone of conten-
tion was defence, not debt-repudiation, but
lie lost caste with a section for a time.
His first great misfortune came when Edward
VIII. died. It meant the end of his career;
if his royal friend had lived he would have
had a dukedom, but he wasn’t persona grata
with the present King or Queen. Then his
wife (who had made herself popular in
Australia, despite a naturally frigid manner)
was accidentally drowned in Ireland, and he
married Gertie Millar and retired from public
life to the golf and gambling of Le Touquet,
where he had a villa. Dudley had the good
looks of his family, brains, culture (he was a
particularly good judge of pictures and had
read widely) and great wealth, but he lacked
balance or something. It made him no more
than a qualified success at everything he took
on, from the vice-regal business to soldiering.
Roy Stanley Vincent, the new N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines and Forests, is a serious-
minded politician, who speaks only on things
whereof he knows. He was born at Glen
Innes 40 years ago, and before the
war he edited a paper at Dorrigo. In
France he was blown up and gassed ; a long
stretch in hospital followed, and he still
R. S. VINCENT, who has succeeded Mr.
Badly as N.S.W. Minister of Mines.
suffers the after-effects of war injuries. The
Northern Tablelands districts have in him
an ardent champion; he is a hard worker
for New States and represents New Eng-
land on the executive of the United Country
movement. Ten years ago he was elected
to Parliament for Oxley.
“Whitehall” : As showing how poor a rich
man can be, Lord Dudley told me
while he was in Australia that he “had
never known what it was to have a clear
£lOOO a year to spend at will in his life.”
Yet his income, at the time, was over £40.000
a year. It all went in dowers, allowances
to indigent relations, the education of his
children, the upkeep of family places—some
of which he hardly ever saw—and similar
inescapable obligations.
Christchurch is the proud possessor of
a brand-new art gallery costing £27,000, the
gift of R- E. McDougall, manufacturer of bis-
cuits and chocolates. McDougall, reputed to
be one of the wealthiest men in the Shivery
Isles, got his first start when a bright young
bank clerk ; he picked up a creaking business
in which his bank was closely interested and
galvanised it into fresh life. He distributes
stacks of pay envelopes, for even in slump
times people will nibble biscuits and choco-
lates.
Beards seem to be part of the make-up of
those Melbourne artists who follow Max
Meldrum. The Master himself sports a full
ziff, and his ardent artist-followers Justus
Jorgensen, Colquhoun and Farmer wear
whiskers also, as the old painters did. Col-
JUSTUS JORGENSEN, a disciple of
Meldrum in art and facial decoration.
ville, another, has good trimmings. Certainly
Colin Colahan, still another, has no
whiskers ; but he makes up for it in growth
of hair. All Meldrum has done to the old
schools of art in the southern capital is
nothing alongside what he has done to the
barbers.
D’Arcy Johnston, who died a few days ago
at Lindfield (Sydney), was a descendant of
Captain George Johnston, the First Fleeter
who made a name for himself by leading the
revolution which deposed Governor Bligh.
D’Arcy’s father, R. P. Johnston held some of
the family property about Yass. His grand-
father, Captain Robert Johnston, R.N., mar-
ried a Miss Weller, who received a Crown
grant of 1280. acres near Yass. Those were
the days!
The late Alex. Dunlop, Tile Bulletin’s
chief proof-reader for so many years, knew
more about the ealigrapliy of the paper’s
regular contributors than anyone else. For
uniformly neat copy he gave the palm to
J. H. M. Abbott. The most refractory fist
he had to handle was Randolph Bedford’s.
In hospital in Adelaide is E. W. Buekland.
of Brisbane. He was in the 4th Dragoon
Guards in the retreat from Mons, and was
a prisoner in northern Germany all through
the war. There he got the seeds of rheu-
matism ; and a midwinter holiday in ine
south, from his post in the artillery in
Queensland, has found out the old trouble.
The best pupil the lecturer in Russian at.
Melbourne University has had under him was
Prof. Greenwood, Professor of Metallurgy,
who left recently to inspect Sovietism in its
lair. After 20 lessons he acquired sufficient
command of one of the most difficult lan-
guages in the world to write in technical
language on his special subject.
Thousands of land settlers in Victoria
must have felt genuine regret last ivaek at
the passing of Joe Reed, formerly Surveyor-
General and Sec. for Lands. After his re-
tirement from the service 14 years ago he
continued until last year as chairman of
the Tourist Resorts Committee. Latterly
lie lived at the home of his son (Dr. Stanley
Reed) at Korumburra, Gippsland. He was
75.
Jimmy Thomson, one of the oldest of Aus-
tralian journalists, has been contributing
weekly instalments of his reminiscences to
the “West Australian” for the past year or
two. Jimmy’s newspaper work began in
Victoria in the ’sixties, and as lie was
brought into close contact with most poli-
tical (and other) celebrities there over a
period of 30 years he has lots of interest-
ing memories. Close on 40 years ago lie
transferred himself West, founded a bright
paper on the Murchison goldfields and ran it
for several years; later he essayed to give
Fremantle an up-to-date daily. A fine
descriptive writer, with a wealth of press
experience, Jimmy has long outlived most of
his old contemporaries in two States and
still wields a busy pen.
J. B. Jaequet, Chief Inspector of Mines for
N.S.W., who retired from the service last
week, was born in London in 1867, and left
the Royal School of Mines with his degree
in 1890. After two years of practical ex-
perience in the Cornish tinmines and on the
Scottish coalfields, he came to Sydney ana
was appointed a geological surveyor, one of
his jobs being a survey of Broken Hill. In
1897 lie made an investigation of gold-dredg-
ing methods in Maoriland, and his work
there was of great value to N.S.W. enter-
prises entering on the same field.
The Australian Literature Society has
awarded its gold medal for the best Aus-
tralian novel published in 1931 to F. D.
Davison for “Man-Shy.” “Forever Morn-
ing” and “Man-Shy” were warmly praised
on the Red Page when they appeared; but
the sales were disappointing, for reasons
which the author gave in a recent Bulletin
article on book-publishing in Australia.
Davison was in South America when the
World War started ; he helped to take 800
Canadian horses to England and joined up
there with the 2nd Dragoon Guards. He
went on the land up north after the Armis-
tice, married, joined his father’s estate-
agency business and took tb writing.
A. H. Giles (“Gilo” to thousands of Syd-
ney Grammar School boys, old and young)
died last week after half a century as a
master in the lower school. He came to
Sydney from Cambridge as a youth of 20,
and held what was virtually the same job
from that day to his death. He was no
genius, but he had nearly all the qualities
which are most desirable for the purpose
of controlling smallish boys—notably firm-
ness and a judicial mind. He lost a son
during the war.
On the roster of promotions in the latest
Navy List are the names of J. A. Collins
and H. B. Farncombe, two of the first gradu-
ates from Jervis Bay. Each has been
appointed Commander, the highest rank yet
attained by a Jervis Bay graduate. The
promotions are a stage in the commendable
policy of staffing the _ R.A.N. as far
as possible with Australian-trained officers.
Both are Victorians. Commander Collins,
a brother of novelist Dale Collins, is
at Greenwich on a special course; Com-
mander Farncombe is on the Naval Staff at
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. Each is in
his 33rd year.
Richard Trout, just passed out at 80, was
a noted Brisbane identity. Born in Devon,
he was in the Palmer (N.Q.) rush before he
laid the foundations of what was to become
one of the Cattle State’s biggest private
butchering enterprises. Politics attracted
him for a time, and he was returned for
Enoggera in 1911, holding the seat until the
Labor swing-over in 1915.
W. E. ROGERS, South Australia’s Auditor-
General. He says South Aus. has
borrowed too much for unproductive
works, and Adelaide spends too much
on gambling.
N.S.W. Leg. Council lost a member of 25
years’ standing in William Thomas Dick,
who passed out last week at Bondi. Born
at Newcastle GG years ago, he turned from
school-mastering to science and law, 'taking-
high honors at Sydney Uni., and won an
Assembly seat before he was out of his
twenties. For a dozen years he represented
Newcastle electors and was an honorary
Minister in the Carruthers Government from
1905 to 1907. In the latter year he was
nominated to the Upper House. A son fell
at Passchendaele.
Charlie Lloyd Jones, tbe small, dapper,
white-haired, young-elderly man who, as
chairman of the Australian Broadcasting
Commission, took over from Stuart Doyle
last week, is one of Sydney’s picturesque
characters. He has had a shot at many
things, and made a success of most of them.
Painting, which he studied under Julian
Ashton, was his first love, and music came
a close second. He has exhibited at the
C. LLOYD JONES, who will get most of
the blame if the new broadcasting
scheme is unsatisfactory.
Society of Artists’ shows, and he was one
of the best friends of the late lamented
State Orchestra under Verbrugghen. Jones
is chairman of directors of the David Jones
concern, and has been treasurer of Sydney
Chamber of Commerce. On the sporting
side he is best known as a sailing man. He
used to own the handsome yacht which is
now Frank Albert’s Boomerang.
“Jeames” : Manoel of Portugal, who. died
of a throat affection on Sunday, was the
most contented king-in-exile on record. His
private fortune, and most of his mother’s,
had been transferred to London and New
York before he abdicated 20 years ago. He
would have had to bolt anyhow—his father
and brother were assassinated because they
didn’t —but he hastened events by pouring
money into tbe coffers of Gaby Deslys when
thousands of his subjects were starving. This
alienated the clericals, who were the Crown’s
last prop. Manoel enjoyed himself on rather
futile lines at Twickenham —playing- tennis,
racing, attending the opera, etc. —and kept
the friendship of the British Royalties
throughout the war, though he had mar-
ried a German in 1913. Everybody liked
him, and everybody had that faint contempt
for him which is felt for war-time non-
starters. It is said that the only thing that
worried him was the thought that he
might one day have to resume 'his uneasy
crown.
Percy Hunter, who resigned from the
Pacific Cable Board last week, began as a
‘TXT.” reporter. He made money out of
the bicycling and footracing boom at the
end of last century with his friend Hugh
D. Mclntosh, made some more out of real
estate, and left journalism for business. He
is Sydney’s youngest-looking man for his
years. Humor, the gift of words, and what
the sporting writers call a “colorful per-
sonality” are some of his assets.
Bruce Walker, dead at 61, practised as a
solicitor for 33 years at Windsor and Syd-
ney, and his professional knowledge served
him well in Parliament. lie had a safe seat
in the Assembly for Hawkesbury from 1917
onwards, and when he retired his 1 sou
Ronald succeeded him. Bruce Walker was
Chairman of Committees and Deputy-
Speaker under the Fuller and Bavin Govern-
ments. Agricultural interests and local
activities found in him an indefatigable sup-
porter ; in his spare time he was a keen
sportsman with gun and rod.
“Lex” on a law lord: —
Lord Parmoor, who said the other day that “the
Statute of Westminster entitles the Irish Free State
to repeal the Parliamentary oath legally,” is the
nearest thing England has to N.S.W.’s ever-stimu-
lating “Piddo.” He is old, —an octogenarian, in fact
—but takes a boy’s delight in being mischievous.
He is the beta nmr of Lord Carson, who is his
antithesis in appearance (Parmoor is little over
sft., Carson is well over Oft. tall), mentality, social
and political outlook and all else. I used to get
much amusement from watching them on the Privy
Council bench together. Parmoor’s unconventional
pronouncements, uttered in mild, almost simpering,
tones, were often intended to bring a flush of rage
to the Irish Law Lord’s saturnine face, and they
mostly did. Lord Parmoor has a nne brain, but on
political issues no one takes him seriously.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
THE
“CURVILINEAR” CONCENTRATING TABLE
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND PRICE
s
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demon-
stration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp
batteries, amalgamating tables, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water-
and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR JULY,
NOW ON SALE.
EXCHANGE & PRICES
POSSIBLE EFFECT ON
MARKET
TOBACCO SHARES
AND DEBENTURES
TIMBER & FORESTRY
OUTLOOK FOR
METALS
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921 60,328 4325 10 p.c.= 35,423 20,580 140,488
1922 61.338 4325 10 ~ „ 40,423 16,590 157,078
1923 59,752 4325 10 ~ „ 40,423 15,004 172,082
1924 62,047 4325 10 ~ ~ 40,423 17,299 189,381
1925 65.121 4325 10 „ ~ 40,423 20,373 209,754
1926 71,121 4325 10 ~ ~ 50,423 16,373 226,127
1927 73,020 4325 10 ~ ~ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ ~ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 ~ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 ~ ~ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 5f „ ~ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5f „ „ 34,743 325 269,834
This co., with Sydney headquarters, was in
the paper and printers’ requisites trade for
close on half a century before the public
became interested in 1915. Since then it lias
more than doubled its paid capital, raising
the figure to £690,739, including £86,509 of
5 p.c. pref. money, and the ords. received a
steady 10 p.c., with wide margins, until
the close of accounts in 1930. Then the
rate dropped to 5| p.c., the final quarterly
distribution for the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts being at the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a. Trading lias been restricted by the
death of a number of Sydney and country
newspapers, the shrinkage in the size of
others, and the contraction in demand for
printers’ machinery and other accessories.
However, the co. had accumulated £317.645
in cash (£180,028) and public securities
(£137,617) when the books last closed. Thus
the management is able to trim sail to the
altered trade winds by returning the whole
of the pref. capital and 4s. per share to the
ords. on July 7. This will call for £207,356
(on which interest at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
will be paid from April 30 to July 7), and
reduce paid capital to £483,384 in 16s.
shares. These are to be exchanged for new
fully-paid £1 ords., five for four. Fractional
certificates with a face value of 16s. will be
handed out for each old share in odd lots.
On surrender of five of these certificates
four new fully-paid ords. will be issued.
Last week-end the ords. were priced at
245. 6d. on the market. At that figure the
equivalent value of the fractional certificates
will be 20s. Od.; and of the new fully-paid
ords. 255. 7d. The return at 255. 7d. on an 8
p.c. div. basis is 6.2 p.c. To pay 8 p.c. on
capital as reduced (£483.384) would call for
£38,671 p.a.; so capital and reserves com-
bined would need to net at least 5.2 p.c.
The co., which has an able management and
a splendid history, can be expected to get
its full share of whatever business is offer-
ing. One thing likely to affect the business
in the future will be the manufacture of
newsprint in Australia.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture is seen in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1995 1920 1991 1999
Paid capital.. £590,740 £690,740 £690,740 £690,740
Liabilities . . 131,868 106,094 45,590 34,208
Freeholds . . 110,319 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stocks . . 153,680 216,163 167,889 145,692
Sundry debtors 419,474 456,252 356,612 351,499
Cash and in-
vestments .. 268,321 308,471 392,422 409,215
The most vulnerable point in the co.’s
armor is debtors’ balances, which are ade-
quately protected by securities and/or
reserves, the board says. Stocks, down
£22,197 during the year, appear at replace-
ment cost or less, and “provision has been
made for any decline in market value.”
Premises are in at a conservative figure, too.
When the books closed more or less liquids
(including shares in other cos. and stocks)
exceeded the outside debts by £572,198. The
return of capital will reduce the figure to
£664,843, and still leave the co. with over
£llO,OOO in public securities and cash.
Shares in other cos. (£91,516) include an
unspecified holding in the London subsidiary ;
but to what extent this pup has contributed
to the pool is not disclosed in the published
figures.
Allowing for the return of capital, the
visible backing for the scrip is 31s. Id. in
net tangibles.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Early in 1929 the public snapped 250,000
guaranteed 8 p.c. cum. prefs. to provide
funds for building the Melbourne “State”
Theatre, which was leased to the parent
co., Union Theatres, Ltd., for 25 years at
a rental of £42,000 p.a. It was the end of
the period of easy money and free spending.
and before the new co.’s first year had
closed the early effects of the slump were
felt. During the next 18 months the whole
of the active Union Theatres group was
in difficulties, and towards the end of 1931
Union Theatres, Ltd., went into liquida-
tion. Though the pup was only indirectly
interested in the showing business, the crash
involved it in heavy loss, and made the
guarantee on the pref. capital of no value.
Union Theatres, Ltd., had received 43,800
fully-paid ords. for its equity, in the freehold,
and took up another 150,000 ords. in the
Vie. co., payable in cash. These had been
called to 15s. 4d., making paid capital
£411,626, including payments in advance of
calls. The Vic. co. apparently ranked as an
unsecured creditor of the parent, and £45,000
owing has been written off as bad debt. The
premises have been now leased to Greater
Union (Management), Ltd., for 10 years at a
rental equal to 90 p.c. of the weekly surplus
of takings over outgoings. Depreciation,
taxes, etc., to be borne by Union Theatres
(Vic.), which has power to terminate the
arrangement if its net return averages less
than £350 a week over 13 weeks. Takings
for the six months to the close of accounts
at March 31 were unsatisfactory, and
a loss of £31,365 showed up for the year,
compared with a profit of £22,964 in the
previous year. The pref. div. is now 12
months in arrears, and reconstruction is
proposed.
The scheme put forward provides for the
forfeiture of their cumulative rights. Ordi-
nary capital is to be written down by not
more than £80,060, and the uncalled liability
cancelled. Ordinarily the amount unpaid
would be brought into reckoning before the
prefs. lost anything, but the misfortunes of
the previous holding co. made some sort of
compromise necessary. The capital to be
struck off will be used to wipe out prelim-
inary exes, and p. and 1. debit balance
(together £30,886), and to write down the
tlireatre property, which now stands in the
books at £540,548. There is a mortgage of
£142,500, and creditors amounting to £4363,
ahead of the prefs., which are changing
hands at 4s. in the market. Cash and debtors
figure at £2186, and provision for taxes,
£15,131.
Full voting powers and a majority on the
board are to be granted to the prefs. In
return for the sacrifices they are making
now they should also be granted participat-
ing rights, which might be of some value in
the future. There appears to be no immediate
prospect of divs.- —the mortgage stands in
the way. to mention one thing. Still, tak-
ings of the theatre have picked up lately, and
the directors hope to avoid losses this year.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd.
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
£ £ £ £
1922.. 11,844 6 p.c. = 17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ „ 20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in .. 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off. £40,000 .. 94,893
1924.. 33,896 S p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105,138
1925.. 29,966 9 ~ ~ 27,000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30,172 8 „ ~ 24,000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ ~ 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 „ ~ 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ ~ 21,000 1,806 119,986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
1932.. 22,400 Nil 91,603
Trade connections held well, and the year's
transactions resulted in a profit, the amount
of which the directors did not bother to
mention. The loss of £22,400 was due to
special provision for depreciation and a re-
valuation of stocks and debtors’ balances.
For over 30 years the original assets figured
in the sheet at £148,500, depreciation being-
struck off the book value of additions the co.
itself had made. In 1924 the lot was revalued
and the figures amalgamated. The new
totals fully supported the old ones, which
suggested that unearned increment in the
freeholds just about offset what should have
been written off plant, etc., in the earlier
years. At the same time £40,000 of visible
reserves were used to rub goodwill out of the
accounts.
But these book adjustments did not affect
the earning capacity of the plant; so, unable
to pass increased costs on to the consumer,
an assault was made upon outgoings by
electrification of the factory and reorgani-
sation of distributing methods, though it
might have been better had the co. shifted its
quarters and built an entirely new factory.
Later the ice-cream section was passed to a
subsidiary, and another offshoot was formed
to handle dehydrated fruits and vegetables.
Still, declared net earnings dropped from
11.6 p.c. on capital in 1924 to 7.6 p.c. for the
12 months to the close of accounts in 1930.
Then slump and the fall in the price of
silver, which fall affected the co.’s Asiatic
trade, reduced turnover, while overhead re-
mained stubborn, and shareholders have gone
hungry for the last two years. They have
never had much in the way of divs. After
the crash of the ’nineties it took 18 years for
the rate to climb to 5J p.c. The war pro-
vided new opportunities, trade was opened
up with Southern Asia and 10 p.c. was paid
for the three years to 1920. For the next
decade the average was 7.4 p.c., and there
was little to spare. During this period the
management was not conspicuously progres-
sive.
Last year’s adjustments are again re-
flected in the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—-
1924. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft . . 45,335 79,137 99,712 91,521
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 25,900 24,000 24,000
Other debts.. 48,405 49,502 37,163 23,882
Fixed assets. . 326,773 400,920 371,310 343,560
Shares other oos. 674 591 48,835 48,716
Stocks .. 108,211 97,847 58,530 40,109
Book debts, etc. 92,732 83,667 95,906 98,391
Cash .. .. 307 254 296 232
The book value of fixed assets was reduced
by £27,750 and the stocks item by £18,421.
Debtors’ balances increased by £2413, and
£13,281 was knocked off the amount coming
to sundry creditors and £Bl9l off the over-
draft. When the books closed the outside
debt exceeded more or less liquids, exclud-
ing shares, by £671; an improvement of
£5472 during the twelvemonth.
There are 100,000 prefs., 6 p.c. cumulative,
which advance with the ords. beyond that
rate. There will be £lB,OOO coming to them
at the close of next accounts. They fetch
16s. on the market; the ords. are priced at
6s. 6d. The book value of the net tangible
cover is £3 18s. 3d. prefs., 295. Id. ords. ;
all in plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Assurance and Thrift Association, Ltd.
Added Assur-
to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
1922.. 21,473 2,299 8,382 ) q 7q9 70
Transferred to reserve fund, £lOOO j ’ ’
1923.. 26,045 5,002 9,173 11,870 82,462
1924.. 31,704 3,736 8,070 19.898 102,360
1925.. 27,495 6,511 9,892 ) 0 0 99 ill 452
Transferred to reserve fund, £2OOO J ’ "
1926.. 33,101 5,783 11,581 15,737 127,189
1927.. 34.078 8,420 11,889 13,769 140,958
1928.. 35,289 7,575 11,813 15,901 156,859
1929.. 38.055 8,747 12,121 17,187 174,046
1930.. 39,577 10,499 12,077 16,401 190,447
Transferred to staff fund, £2OOO .. •• 188,447
1931.. 36,927 14,251 12,530 10,140 198,593
1932.. 32,819 14,486 11,326 7,007 205,600
including divs. : 1912-18, 4 p.c. ; 1919, 5 p.c. ;
1920, 6 p.c.; 1921-23, 7 p.c.; 1924-31, 8 p.c.;
1932, 7 p.c.
This little 22-year-old Sydney life office
has never put very much ginger into
the hunt; hence its modest figures. Still,
funds have grown faster than liabilities
under policies, etc., thus providing a steady
flow of bonuses to policy-holders, with a
bit, over for shareholders. Here are details
of the last three valuations: —
Net Pro- Divs.
Liability vision Share-
Under Deferred holders Net
Funds. Policies. Bonuses. 8 p.c. Surplus.
1924.. £102,360 £84,991 £1638 £1503 £14,228
1927.. 140,958 122,150 1980 1867 14,961
1930.. 190,447 166,940 3678* 1867 17,962
‘lncludes £2OOO to staff fund.
Of the £17,662 available for policy-holders
in 1930, £14,320 was split up in bonuses
ranging from 345. per cent, on endowment
assurances to 465. per cent, on whole-of-
life contracts 15 years or more in force.
The other £3642 has been carried for-
ward. Shareholders, who had a steady 8 p.c.
for the seven years to the close of accounts
in 1930, got 7 p.c. last year, and may have
to be content with less before they get more.
The shrinkage in the amount added to
funds during each of the last three years,
as shown in the second last column of the
introductory table, is due to the falling off
oi new business and to lighter returns from
the co.'s mortgage and. property investments.
The slip in the amount of new business
written last year (£50,409) was £8166,
making a drop of 50 p.c. since 1929. Net
premiums (£23,124) were £lB4l lighter,
and interest, rents, etc. (£9287) fell away
£2576 —only actual cash receipts were taken
into account; the figures may benefit from
postponed payments later. Excluding divs.
and the tax bill, exes, took 23.8 p.c. of the
year’s income as against 25.2 p.c. and 25.7
p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Until recently the co. scored heaviest
from its investments. It assumes that its
funds will earn only 81 p.c. net. Owing to
interest reduction legislation and the mora-
torium and growth in taxation, last
year's net interest, etc., was barely 31 p.c.
on average funds as against 5.2 p.c. and 6
p.c. for 1931 and 1930 respectively. Still,
the outlook in this respect is improving; and
extension of the business to Victoria should
help.
The next table shows how the co.’s funds
are invested: —
1925. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £23,333 £23,333 £23,333 £23,333
Liabilities* . . 6,692 3,945 9,675 8,011
Freeholds, etc. .. 35,845 50,955 57,437 59,153
Mortgages etc. .. 83,058 103,171 114,024 107,301
Loans on policies. . 8,092 14,006 22,350 26,787
Shares in other cos. 15,992 27,979 25,396 27,817
Public securities. . 4,740 11,887 22,943 24,148
Book debts, cash, etc. 4,995 8,828 5,729 9,109
*Other than under policies.
Everything, of course, depends upon the
quality of the assets. Over the last seven
years sales of property, etc., have turned
in capital profits aggregating £11,865, of
which £4OB was in respect of the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. This and
the fact that managing-director Dovey—he
is an actuary of the old school, and tin-
founder of the business —is still at the helm
are pretty good recommendations as to (lie
care exercised in selection. Though the
moratorium is preventing collection of some
instalments at the moment, it should help to
stabilise values in the long run. Owing to
the effects of taxation, more attention is
likely to be given to Government securities.
Last year the small fire and accident busi-
ness brought in £4244, of which claims took
£1413 and exes. £2481, leaving a net sur-
plus of £350. That lifted the contingency
fund to £9763 at March 31.
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 7,554 5 p.c. = 7,500 54 1,469
1925.. 10,878 64 „ „ 9,750 1128 2,597
1926.. 11,139 74,, „ 11,250 2,486
1927.. 17,379 9 ~ „ 13,500 3879 6,365
1928.. 16,988 9 „ ~ 13,500 3488 9,853
1929.. 14,116 9 „ „ 13,500 616 10,469
1930.. 13,086 8 ~ „ 12,000 1086 11,555
1931.. 11,041 7 „ „ 10,500 541 12,096
This one of Burns Philp’s South Sea family
took over some 12,000 acres in the German
Solomons about 20 years ago. The first
crop of cocoanuts was sold in 1919. but
shareholders did not get into the picture
until 1924, when 5 p.c. was distributed.
High prices and expanding production
enabled 9 p.c. to be paid for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929, But com-
petition from whale oil and then slump
brought the London price of copra tumbling
from £27 a ton in June. 1928, to £l5 two
years later. In June, 3931, the figure was
around £10: it recovered to £l7 in March
last; but is now back to £l3 2s. 6d. So,
despite a steady growth in output and a
little benefit from exchange, sales have slipped
£11.678 over the last three years, £5814 of it
being in respect of the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts : —-
Copra Copra
Output, Output,
Tons. Sales. Tons. Sales.
1923.. 906' £15,586 1928.. 2723 £44,372
1925.. 1609 32,254 1929.. 3078 43,069
1926.. 1968 35,135 1930.. 3348 38,508
1927.. 2325 42,165 1931.. 3577 32,694
But exes. (£21,653) were pulled back £3769,
reducing last year’s net shrinkage to £2045,
the final figure being 7.3 p.c. on capital as
against 8.7. 9.4, 11.3. 11.5 and 7.4 p.c. back
to 1926. Hence another point was knocked
off the div., reducing it to 7 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances —■
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 4,008 5,779 4,509 4,027
Properties, etc. 134,143 137,428 137,426 136,019
Livestock, etc. 12,841 11,483 11,308 9,0(b)
Copra . . 13,956 24,172 16,051 12,340
Book debts .. 1,801 1,097 978 877
Cash, etc. . . 235 5,568 12,301 18,382
Over the lost seven years development and
the purchase of 521 acres in New Guinea
have added only £1876 net to the book value
of properties. The fall in prices has affected
values, of course; but the fact that the co.
was able to show 7.3 p.c. on its capital last
year also suggests that assets are conser-
vatively valued.
What the future of prices will be it is
impossible to say. The decision of the
British Government to stabilise the sterling-
dollar exchange round about the present rate
should help to check the recent backward
swing, and over-production in the oils and
fats markets is working its own cure. The
scrip, for which the visible backing in net
tangibles is 21s. Bd., is not listed.
Shamrock Brewing and Malting (Melb.)
Net To .Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 9,852 11 p.c. = 8,638 1214 20,653
1922.. 10,408 13 „ „ 10,208 200 20,853
1923.. 10,660 14.6 ~ „ 11,484 20,029
1924.. 12,808 14.6,. ~11,484 1324 21,353
1925.. 13,222 14.6 „ .. 11,484 1738 23,091
1926.. 15,665 1.7 „ ~ 13,349 2316 25,407
1927. 15,792 17 „ „ 13,349 2443 27,850
1928.. 15,688 17 ~ ~13,349 2339 30,189
1929.. 10,106 17 „ ~ 13,349 2757 32,946
1930.. 9,775 12. „ „ 9,423 352 33,298
1931.. 8,387 11 „ „ 8,638 33,047
Divs. depend upon distributions from Carl-
ton and United Breweries, in which the
public is interested through this and five
other holding cos. Of the C.U.B.’s 1,950.000
£1 shares Shamrock own 83,409 —10,549
7 p.c. prefs., which advance with the ords.
beyond that rate, and 72,500 ords. —which
figure in the books at £84,780 (cost). Other
assets at Dec. 31 were a solitary hotel free-
hold, £4553; advances, cash, etc., £28,529;
and there was still £lOOO to come on the
old Collingwood brewery, sold in 1917. It
was one of the properties not wanted when
the combine was formed 25 years ago. and
its consequent depreciation in value —it was
not worth cost for any other purpose—
formed part of the goodwill in the 72,500
C.U.B. shares originally handed to this co.
(Continued on page 16.)


gas
SC 5
t#:
m.
///,
v//
% li®
►-J*- '.. ..1.~,.,.j.'<,..i>r S,
sm
Disassembled Units.
British Built.
and
Interchangeable Carriage.
mm
Interchangeable Platen.
ills
Interchangeable Keyboard.
The following T ype-
writers have been re-
placed by new Imperial (
machines, and are
offered for sale , recor*
ditioned and guaran-
tee d, at attractive
prices.
Late Model Remington, Under-
wood, Royal, L. C. Smith, £l5
rebuilt; £l2 10s. overhauled.
Earlier Models, £10; other
makes, £B. If the nature of your
work does not warrant the ex-
penditure on a new Imperial,
these machines will be found to
be thoroughly serviceable. They
are sold on a definite money-
back guarantee if they are not
satisfactory in every way.
Please direct your inquiry
to the nearest State Agent.
The Imperial Typewriter costs less
lasts longer t> gives easier, quieter
quicker work.. and mare off/.
THE new Imperial Typewriter is specially designed' to meet the most
exacting demands of modern business.... to speed up corres-
pondence, increase efficiency, and give trouble-free service over a
long period. It produces cleaner, more readable letters in quicker time
at less cost.... It gives you several other branches of typewriter service
such as you can obtain from no other machine.... And it gives you the
satisfaction of using a British machine, built throughout in the thorough
British manner, of high-grade trustworthy materials.
And, in spite of all the numerous additional advantages of the Imperial,
because of its British origin, you pay less for it than for any other high-
grade machine and there is ONE price, and one only—£39/10/-,
for the standard machine, slightly more for larger sizes, and' £l9/19/-
for the Portable model.
Twenty-five years' experience has produced
eight additional special features.
IMPERIAL
MACHINES
meet the most exacting
demands of these great
organisations:—
Commonwealth Govern-
ment.
N.S.W. Government.
Commonwealth Bank.
Bank of New South
Wales.
Bank of Australasia.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ins. Society, Ltd.
Mutual Life and Citi-
zens’ Assurance Co.,
Ltd.
Lever Brothers, Ltd.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Permanent Trustee Co.,
Ltd.
Tooheys, Ltd.
Commonwealth Oil Re-
fineries, Ltd.
John Vicars & Co., Ltd.
Clifford Love & Co., Ltd.
GOOD
( Interchangeable type
and keyboard. Per-
mits of typing in 15
styles of type or in
any language on one
machine.
1 Six extra characters.
Most typewriters
have 84 characters
only. The Imperial
possesses 90.
Interchangeable Car-
riage. Makes it
possible to use car-
riages of various
lengths on the same
machine.
C 1 e a r-eut Type.
Every Imperial type-
block is designed and
cut in our own
factory.
I n t e r c h a n geable
Platen. Gives the
use of soft, medium
or hard platen in
the same machine.
Dual Escapement
Motion. Speedy and
silent in action, giv-
ing- facilities for
display work, etc.
Special “Pin-Point”
Unit. Cheques typed
with this unit are
rendered impossible
of alteration.
Special Locking
Device. This auto-
matically locks the
carriage and key-
lever action when
not in use.
Imperial Typewriters are guaranteed for three years against faulty workmanship
and materials , and are serviced during the first twelve months free.
British
Price £39/10/
ewriiers
Imperial Typewriter
Sales Company,
58 Young St., Sydney.
L. Dobell k Co., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street,
Brisbane.
Geo. Raitt Pty., Ltd.,
40 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Office Equippera, Ltd.,
Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
Burridge & Warren,
Ltd.,
69 .King Street, Perth.
Office Supplies Co.,
105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
The
Agents,
Imperial
Typewriters.
I would appreci-
ate further infor-
mation regarding the
new model Imperial
British T ypewriter.
Thank you!
NAME
ADDRESS .
Fill in, and post to your nearest Imperial Agent.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.lison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* # * $
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
*** ' *
YOUR OVERDRAFT.—Nasty thing these days, or
at any time —worse when it is suddenly called up.
But it is much safer if protected by a Life Policy
with a leading Society. Furthermore, your banker
will look at it much more kindly, because he knows
that such a policy is an undoubted security. Ring
up or write the T. and G. Mutual Life Society for
details.— Advt. ‘ [g
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IV onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. If. y. Douglass, Manager.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA ETD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31,
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluest one).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company's offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Returns from the co.'s investments have
been as follows :
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Dividends. etc. Dividends. etc.
1920.. £7,997 £1312 1926.. £15,027 £1364
1921.. 9,157 1340 1927.. 15,027 1560
1922.. 10,009 1230 1928.. 15,027 1587
1923.. 11,912 1356 1929.. 15,027 1960
1924.. 12,431 1269 1930.. 10,874 2262
1925.. 12,950 1102 j 1931.. 8,798 2090
After a run of 171 p.c. distributions C.U.B.
dropped its. div. to 15 p.c. for the 32 months
to June 30, 1930, followed by Hi for the
next year, when the final was at the rate
of 10 p.c. p.a.; the interim for the current
term was at the same rate. Thus in 3931
Shamrock received £2706 less in divs.;
interest, etc., was £172 lighter. The net
result was 10.9 p.c. on the £78,252 of capital
as against 12.4" p.c. and 20.5 p.c. for the
two preceding years, and another point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 11 p.c.
The 11 p.c. is not likely to be maintained
unless C.U.B. lifts its div. above 10 p.c.;
and it is doubtful whether anything better
than 10 p.c. need be looked for from that
quarter for a while. The slump in hotel
values provided the operating co. with a
chance to secure more of the trade and
the opportunity was promptly taken, doubt-
less with an eye on probable competition.
For the two years to June 30, 1931, the
co. spent £222,058 more than was written
off on hotel properties (£611,154), and the
more or less liquid surplus was £1,189,297
when the books last closed. Nevertheless,
unemployment remains acute and the debts
problem perplexing, while taxation has grown
prodigiously.
The market priced Shamrock’s pound
shares at 625. in 1929; the figure dropped
to 335. 6d. in March last, and then to 31s.
The return at 31s. would be 6.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Including the co.’s pro-
portion of C.U.B. reserves (14s. 4d.), the
backing amounts to 425. Sd. in net tan-
gibles.
The Gold Industry
The Gold Bounty Act of 1930 fixed the
bounty for 10 years at £1 per ounce (in
Australian currency) on production in excess
of 451,4320 z. fine gold, which was the aver-
age Australian output for the three years
to the end of 1930. After the local price
of sterling went to a premium of 30 p.c..
the bounty was reduced, under the Financial
Emergency Act, to 10s. per ounce, subject
to increases of Is. for each decrease of 3s.
in the average price of £lOO of sterling. To
show the advantages of the exchange pre-
mium and the bounty to Australia, the
Mining Association of Westralia has pre-
pared estimates of income and expenditure
of the Australian gold industry for 1931.
During the year approximately £850,000 of
fresh capital was invested. Total income is
figured at £3,589,000. of which £975.200 was
on account of exchange—£724,7oo repre-
sented the depreciation of the Australian
pound in terms of sterling; £250,500 the
depreciation of sterling in terms of the
metal —and £89,000 in respect of the bounty.
Of the gross income £53,125, or little more
than one-tentli of 1 per cent., was distri-
buted in divs.; mining and treatment cost
£1,615,050; development and new plant,
£538,350; stores and other equipment,
£780,475 ; taxes, railway freights and other
Government charges, £602,000. This last
figure includes £124,750 paid to the Federal
Treasury in sales tax and customs duties.
The total amount of taxes, direct and in-
direct, paid by those dependent on the in-
dustry is reckoned at £195,000, including
£41,300 in excise.
Owing to the high price of sterling in Aus-
tralian notes, and the high price of gold in
terms of sterling, the decision of the British
Government to keep the sterling-dollar ex-
change fairly steady around the present level
makes the outlook for goldmining in Aus-
tralia brighter than it has been for many
years. A lot of low-grade ore which could
only be worked at a loss previously is now
providing dividends, and old fields in all
the States are being raked over again with
varying results.
The new saddle reef discovered in a winze
below the 1620 ft. level at the Hercules,
Bendigo has sent the co.’s shares from
• is. to 12s. in the market. It is the
most important find since Dyason’s Amal-
gamated cut the Constellation reef, which
gave a 2oz. average for over two years, begin-
ning in 1918. The new reef, which is a
strong one, has been cut on the west leg of
the saddle. The first crushing of 40 tons
went just under the ounce, and better is
expected from the cap above. On the 1620 ft.
level itself the cap is probably not far above
the main crosscut. The find is a result of
pushing down into new country despite dis-
couragement ; a policy that has been neglected
since Amalgamated ceased operations. This
co. sank the Hercules shaft from 840 ft. to
1520 ft., cutting a big but very patchy reef
at 1440 ft. By following the old reef down-
ward the new and promising saddle reef has
been found. It raises hopes for the Ironbark
and Little ISO mines, whose bottom cross-
cuts may be within 200 ft. of the reef. The
Hercules probably has about three-quarters
of a mile of the reef in its territory.
Bendigo’s gold production for the five
months to the end of May was 61320 z. fine,
an increase of 7440 z. compared with the
corresponding period of 1931. The total is
made up of 28590 z. from about 1700 pros-
pectors, and 32730 z. from the cos. At the
Ironbark, rich ore is now being won from
a saddle at the 1285 ft. level. In the New
Red. White and Blue a crushing from one
of the many promising systems of spurs gave
sdwt„ which is payable. At Golden Gully
the Hydraulic Sluicing Co. obtained 85oz.
from its first paddock, and is now preparing
another.
“Marmatite” : Re the piece of “skite about
Brokeii Hill,” published B. 7/2/’93 (As
We Said Before, 15/6/’32), that forecast has
not been fulfilled ; but the following figures
are of interest. In the 48 years since dis-
covery. the Main Lode mines have produced
43 million tons of ore, equal to 430 million
cubic feet solid. This amount would be equal
to
(1) 713 feet in height of solid ore over the full
length of Sydney Harbor Bridge, 5770 feet long by
160 feet wide;
(2) The ground removed from a 10ft. by 12ft.
railway tunnel, between Sydney and Broken Hill,
700 miles; or
(3) 10ft. 9in. of solid ore over the city portion
of Adelaide, 922 acres.
Forecast is just as difficult to-day as in
1893, but the cos. have 12 million tons of
ore reserves. It is safe, in the light of past
history, to predict 20 million tons, so that
about 50 p.c. can be added to the figures in
the above comparisons.
“Old Warden”; For years beach-mining on
the North Coast of N.S.W. has been carried
on in desultory fashion. Lately there has
been a revival, and, in addition to small par-
ties, two cos. are now at work; they are
Beach Sands, Ltd., at Tugun Creek, and
the Black Head Mineral Co. The metals
sought are zirconium oxide and rutile
(titanium oxide). Beach Sands has a plant
able to treat up to 1000 tons a week, and
is turning out a weekly average of 50 tons
of concentrates, these being shipped for
treatment to Germany via Brisbane, Black
Head is having its concentrates treated in
Sydney. In addition to the two metals
named, the sands have been proved to con
tain gold, platinum and tin—it was for the
gold and tin content that the earlier miners
looked. Zirconium is priced at £336 per
ton, and rutile at £45 per ton.
* * * *
The Gibraltar, at Adelong (N.S.W.), prom-
ises to recover some of its old reputation.
In the past a lot of gold was won from Wins-
lett s reef, which suddenly disappeared • and
as the timbers rotted the mullock in the
higher levels broke through and filled the
spaces below. About three years ago a
' P art y under W. Perkins set to work to find
the reef, which it now claims to have lo-
cated on the 230 ft. level. As the mullock
was cleaned out the fines were sifted and
crushed, and returns therefrom enabled exes,
to be paid. . Where located, the reef is said
to be carrying good values. After inspec-
tion representatives of a Sydney syndicate
have taken an option over the show.
* * * >;c
“Old Warden” : Though few would regard
it as a goldfield, the country round Brisbane
is auriferous, the gold occurring in small
quantity in the decomposed schistose for-
mations. Off and on a few hatters have
sciatoned tlie hills for years, but never won
anything better than bare tucker. Good
colors were recently found when sinking the
cable shafts for the new bridge over the
Brisbane River at Indooroopilly, where a
promising silver-lead proposition was worked
ars m aS°- Now comes news that the old
Mt. laylor mine at Kingston, some 14 miles
from Brisbane, has been opened up again.
The old workings have been reconditioned,
and a 10-stamper battery with blanket and
amalgamating tables, etc., is in operation.
An electrically-worked shaking screen is being
installed to. deal with surface material.
Values are irregular, but samples recently
taken by L. C. Ball show from 6dwt to
Bdwt. per ton. In 3913 Mr. Ball proved
the existence of a considerable shoot of
low-grade ore pitching steeply to the nor’-
west, on the hillside. A serious attempt is
to be made to work this. For a start
25 men will be employed.
*.* * *
* n „ ew sintering equipment and the
third blast furnace will shortly raise the
h" 1 !- 1 /. 11 output to 5000 tons monthly. The
additional 20,000 tons of ore required will
be taken from the sulphide section of the.
Black Star, where the stone assays 8.3 pc
lead and soz. silver. The Ri o Grande sal
plndes, now being blended with the carhm!
?•» fr ™ t ho »»<* assay 14.6 pci
bad and i— oz. silver. In May from 41 Qlfi
tons of ore the co. obtained 3582 ton i i
and 108,0000*. sllv„. t"sothsr vataed “at
£51,600, equal to 255. per ton of ore. 1
“Oxide”; Underground leaching at Mt.
Morgan, which was suspended some months
ago, had to he resumed recently because the
rapidly oxidising ore had in places caught
on fire. River water in large quantities is
being run over the affected area. The co.
has granted old employees permission to
fossick around the old plant for gold residue,
but they have met with little success thus
far. Tributors continue to take out about 36
tons monthly.
❖ ❖ # J|»
At Mount Wandoo (Q.) chief interest now
centres in the Hardman shaft, where rich
complex sulphide ore, carrying arsenopyrite,
has been met. On the 100 ft. level an irre-
gular shoot assayed up to 2|oz. gold per
ton over a width of 2ft. 6in. At the 125 ft.
level a Sin. vein over a length of 19ft. gave
lloz. gold and 15oz. silver per ton. But the.
gneissic country rock is much disturbed, and
no definite lode exists at present depths. To
treat the sulphides concentrating tables are
being erected in the mill. About 70 men
are on the field.
The Queensland (Quicksilver Co., at Kil-
kivan, is now turning out high-grade mer-
cury. The leases total 160 acres, and an
option lias been taken over adjoining areas.
Three shafts are being sunk in friable lode
material; the ore is treated in two retorts
which can handle two tons of ore per 24
hours. The ore is mixed with lime and
heated in retorts; the cinnabar (mercury
sulphide) is decomposed and the mercury
passes away to the condensers.
L. C. Ball, the Queensland Government
Geologist, has drawn attention to the fact
that lodestone, which occurs in small quan-
tities in. the Bramford Mines (Q.), is now
worth 50 gold dollars per ton landed in
’Frisco, the market requiring about 100 tons
monthly. The special feature of lodestone
is that one end of a piece will attract one
end of a supported magnet and repel the
other end, While ordinary magnetite will
attract both ends of the magnet.
At Kupei, Bougainville Island (New
Guinea), the ore body has been met with in
No. 3 drive at a distance of 137 ft., and has
been driven on for 15ft. Quartz is plentiful,
and copper and gold values are “fair” ; they
are expected to improve with further driv-
ing. Neither the width of the lode nor the
direction of the strike has yet been deter-
mined. Encouraging prospects from creek
beds near by are reported, and there is suffi-
cient water within a mile to develop 200/300
bp.
Because investors considered the mine
too low-grade, the flotation of Big Blow,
Coolgardie (W.A.), was unsuccessful. Capi-
tal asked for was £45,000 in 10s. shares; the
vendors were to take 20,000 paids and £4250
cash. The ore was said to be worth 255.
with gold at par, or 40s. at to-day’s price.
Estimated all-in costs at 13s. per ton seemed
rather low, nevertheless the principal re-
quisites for low cost —wide ore body, shallow
depths and easily-treated stone —were all
favorable. An attempt is to be made to
obtain English capital.
* * * :!:
Lake View Investment Trust once had a
big wad of Westralian gold-mining stocks,
but it hasn’t much now. Its present secu-
rity holdings, which have a book value of
£2,155,538, consist chiefly of Government
paper and shares in financial and industrial
undertakings all over the world ; one-half is
British and the other half foreign.
London-controlled South Kalgurli, Ltd.
(W.A.), has declared a div. of Is. 6d. and
a bonus of 2s. 6d. on its 250,007 10s. shares,
payable July 26. Also 2s. 6d. per share of
the capital is to be returned. The div. and
bonus will be less 3s. 81d. in the £ English
income tax; the total distribution will
absorb £81,250. At balancing date the co.
had £44,036 cash, £12,500 bullion and
£67,213 war loans. The scrip recently
advanced from 21s. to 255. lOd. on the Aus-
tralian market.
Kimberley Options, a struggling Adelaide
co. which has stuck to its Edjudina (W.A.)
show, despite experts’ condemnations and
geologists’ sneers, talks of spending money
on a new power plant. The installation of
a mill is also being discussed.
Claude de Bernales is on his way to
London in search of £11,000,000 of capital
to develop and work the Wiluna Moonlight
group of leases and other low-grade shows
which call for mass-production methods. In
the past De Bernales has succeeded where
others have failed, and his admirers are con-
fident of Ms success this time.
Adelaide and Melbourne interests have
secured an option over Bert Franetovicli’s
Birthday Gift at Brown Hill. Ivalgoorlic,
where ounce ore is being raised. The price
is stated to be in the vicinity of £20,000,
with the right to purchase within 12 months.
A Melbourne crowd is forming a co. with
a capital of £30,000 in 2s. shares to take
over a property adjoining North Kalgurli
on the north. Several near-by leases are
presently to be offered to London interests.
* :|i *
Low spelter prices have seriously affected
the German zinc industry, and producers
there are asking for a prohibitive duty on
zinc imported from countries which have no
commercial treaties with Germany, namely.
Australia, Poland and Canada. The prcsent
German duty is £lO per ton. The German
zinc-mines are low-grade, and it is feared
that if they close they will not reopen. The
production of zinc in Germany is normally
106,000 tons per annum, mostly obtained by
distillation.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Do the provisions of tlic N.S.W. Min-
ing Act regarding prospecting areas, reward
claims, etc., apply to private lands? (2) Gan
the owner of land consent to mining there-
on? (3) Seven persons hold a mining lease.
Five of them have worked it for 12 months;
one has neither worked, nor contributed.
How can the partners get rid of the non-
worker? (4) Three parties hold a lease.
Two work and contribute cash; the other
contributes dole rations, does odd jobs, but
will neither prospect nor mine. Can his
interest be cancelled? —634.
(1) All private lands are open to mining
for gold, exclusive of lands within the boun-
daries of a town or village, unless declared
by proclamation to be private lands. But
before the holder of a miner’s right enters
upon private land he must apply to the
Warden for authority. (2) Yes. The owner of
private land may, with the concurrence of
the. Minister for Mines, enter into a leas"
giving power to go on his land and mine.
(3) and (4) If the owner of a share in a
registered claim fails to represent liis share
by labor or to contribute his proportion of
the working expenses, the Warden, on the
application of one or more of the remaining
shareholders, may declare such share to he
abandoned, and may order the remaining
shareholders to be put in possession of it.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.F.K.: (1) “No-liability” means that if a call
is made it is optional for a shareholder, to pay it.
If he neglects to do so within the time allowed
he automatically forfeits his shares. (2) See B.
15/6/’32. It is a speculation ; if you cannot afford
the risk, keep out... . H.P.C.: Your proposal is a
prudent one. If the rate rises, and leaving other
factors out of consideration, Wales scrip should
strengthen on the market. On the other hand, if
the rate falls, or remains steady, and if the Wales
discloses less profit, the price of the scrip may ease.
If you desire safety, and are satisfied with a small
interest return, put the money on fixed deposit....
M.D.: Hold Mick Simmons and Joe Gardiner and
sell the other two.. . .Yenda: (1) Varies considerably
with different offices; to which one do you refer?
(2) Yes. But surrender value would keep policy
in force until such value was exhausted... .E.E.R.:
Hold on for a while; money from exports will
begin to come in presently, and the Government
promises to spend a little... .H.J.G.: Provided the
prefs. enjoy priority as to capital, the ords. bear
the loss. It would be a fair thing to ask the
firsts to accept 7 p.c. and the seconds 5i p.c., or
firsts 5 p.c. and seconds 4 p.c., with the right to
advance to 7 p.c. and 5) p.c. respectively with
the ords., after the ords. had received 4 p.c.
. ...G.S. (Sale): (1) Yes; the debentures are a
trustee investment in Victoria. They are exempt
from State income tax, but subject to State un-
employment tax and Federal income tax, including
super tax. Allowing for this, the return is better
than the present return from consols. (2) Get in
touch with a sharebroker. (8) Immediately....
W.McO.: Where value of all property at death
exceeds £50(10, but does not exceed £lO,OOO, the
estate duty is £4 per cent. From £lO,OOO to
£12,500 the rate is £5 per cent. Gifts made by
deceased for public or charitable purposes within
12 months of death are not chargeable. Other gifts
are charged unless made more than three years
before death.... S.L.: Write A. E. Campbell, Official
Liquidator, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Gold and France
o m ,aii r Je r. in which gold poured into
e U.tS.A. during the war and immediately
afterwards astonished the world; but
actually I ranee lias increased its gold hold-
ings at a far greater rate than the U.S.A.
during the past four years. An official
follows** 11 s^a^ Puts the position as
Gold Holdings
(End of each year or last report date).
(In millions of dollars.)
Creditor Countries— 1900. 1913. 1928. 1932.
United States .. . . 511 1290 3740 3977
Great Britain ... .. 139 i 6 y 748 591
„‘? n . ce 451 679 1253 3018
Belgium 21 48 126 349
Switzerland .. .. 19 33 103 471
■Netherlands .. .. 24 61 175 356
A 1165 2276 6151 8762
Debtor countries—
Germany 119 279 650 205
ftaly 78 265 266 296
Six Danubian States .. 200 302 170 191
Four Scandinavian States 22 69 152 134
Poland 70 68
Spain 67 92 494 434
Japan 32 65 541 215
Australia 22 109 52
Canada 117 114 75
Argentina .. .. 256 607 244
Brazil 90 149
1557 3322 1914
Between Dec., 1928, and the middle of April,
1932, the gold reserves of the world outside
Russia have increased by 1173 million
dollars; and in the same period the gold
reserves of France have increased by 1765
million dollars. Thus France has gathered
in not only all the world’s new gold during
these three and a half years, but 592 million
dollars besides, drawn" from the hoards of
other countries. France formerly held large '
amounts of investments in Britain; these
have been almost entirely turned into gold
and withdrawn. The same thing has been
done on a smaller scale with other coun-
tries. This and the process of selling abroad
as much as possible and buying abroad as
little as possible explains the enormous in-
crease in the French gold holding,
John Higgins and Bawra
From Harold Sims, lion. sec. Moree Wool-
growers' Defence Committee:—
It would not be fair to either John Higgins or
the woolgrowers of Australia to allow James Walker’s
contribution (B. 22/6/’32) to “The Woolgrowers’
Troubles” to pass unchallenged.
John Higgins was not only a member of the
Central Wool Committee which managed the Imperial
wool purchase; he was its chairman and governing
director. That committee was responsible for the
suggestion which resulted in the formation of the
Australian Wool Council. This council appointed
two executives—one in Australia and one in London
—to discuss the wool position generally and to con-
sider the sale of the 1920-21 clip. The carry-over
wool was still under the control of the Central
Wool Committee. In August, 1920, the London
executive committee of the Australian Wool Council
suggested the formation of a joint stock company.
Those proposals were not acceptable at this end.
Later a “special” executive committee was formed
and the London executive of the Australian Wool
Council was disbanded. This “special” executive in
Australia consisted of only three men, with the
same John Higgins as its official head, the other
two being W. S. Fraser and R. J. Boyne.
Higgins, on its behalf, negotiated direct 'with Sir
Arthur Goldfinch, then Director-General of Raw
Materials for the British Government, who was at
the head of the Department concerned with wool
supplies. W. J. Young, of Adelaide, who had been
chairman of the London executive before its dis-
bandment, returned to Australia towards the end
of 1920, and met the “special’’ executive. The
outcome was that John Higgins on behalf of the
“special” executive of three recommended the for-
mation of an organisation to be called the British
Australian Wool Realisation Association, commonly
known as B.A.W.R.A. In the light of the foregoing
facts it doesn’t seem fair to insinuate that Higgins
had less experience than the men he was chosen to
represent, and to merely assert that he did not
create B.A.W.R.A. indicates a degree of ingratitude
which one hesitates to associate with the Acting-
President of the Graziers’ Association of N.S.W.
Mr. Walker further says “there was a great
demand for wool at that time and high prices
ruled.” Actually prior to the formation of
B.A.W.R.A. wool values commenced to fall, and that
fall later took the nature of a landslide. Later
(June 23-25, to be exact), when referring to the
then conditions, Higgins made this statement: “It
is not divulging any secret—the fact is pretty well
known to the trade—that B.A.W.R.A. forestalled
combines that were ready to purchase from the
British Government the whole of the carry-over
wool of 1,800,000 bales and market it as and when
they deemed best.” He followed this by pertinently
indicating what the probable result would have
been to subsequent Australian clips.
Queensland Timbers
Harry Alder, of the Queensland State
service, has been inspecting public buildings
for many years, especially with a view to
determine the value of various timbers. In
his State the eternal triangle of the South —
Baltic, Oregon and redwood—has been
banned in favor of local timbers. Also M.L.
white pine, of which a great deal has been
used in Sydney, is banned from Queensland
public buildings on account of the attrac-
tions it offers to borers.
Satinay (Synearpia hillii), a beautiful
timber which grows only on Fraser Island,
and which lias hardly been used south of
Maryborough, is to have a trial in the new
State Insurance Building in Brisbane. This
timber is useful in all'kinds of joinery work,
flooring, tables, etc., and 180,‘000 sq. feet
are to be laid down in the eight floors of the
building. It is similar in color to Queens-
land maple, and takes a beautiful polish.
It would be hard to find any wood with a
better appearance than figured satinay.
There are millions of feet of this timber
on Fraser Island. But it has to be well
seasoned before use as it is liable to become
case-hardened.
TJ.S.A. has just ordered for early delivery
1000 logs of the giant walnut bean, which
attains a girth of 34 feet in some instances.
Rose mahogany is another valuable timber
which this authority favors. It is sometimes
called Ivillarney rosewood, from the town of
that name near Warwick. Other timbers
which Mr. Alder has found both attractive
and satisfactory are pigeon-berry ash, white
ash, maple, silky oak and red-tulip oak —the
last-named used on the floors of the Brisbane
Police Station 20 years ago and still show-
ing no signs of wear.
Poor Labels
From an Australian in Siam :
I agree with recent remarks in regard to Australian
tinned goods that are sent abroad, and I enclose a
few labels to illustrate how the Australian article
fails alongside the products of competing countries.
The two Australian labels are good examples of
unattractiveness. One is marked “Australian Pro-
duce,” the other is just “Empire Produce”; the
name of the packer is missing, and one wonders
if they are ashamed to put it on. The Swiss and
American packers, besides having attractive labels,
do not omit the firm’s name. Surely there are people
in Australia who, if called upon, could design simple
but attractive labels that would compare favorably
with those of other countries and not look like
ugly ducklings when exposed alongside the rest.
There are few complaints regarding the quality
of Australian goods, but it is difficult to get them.
Although my wife always asks for them she is
rarely successful; but she does not wonder at firms
not stocking them when they look so shoddy.
Australian Paper Pulp
Another paper-making project is being dis-
cussed : this time it is suggested that sugar-
cane fibre be brought down to Port Stephens
(N.S.W.), and water led in from the Williams
River, and that a waste-pipe take the refuse
to Morna Point. The projectors of this
scheme at any rate realise two things which
haven’t always been provided for by pro-
moters of Australian paper mills: (1) it
takes something like 60,000 gallons water
to make a ton of paper (a small part of
it can be saved and used again) ; (2) the
waste is very filthy. Site is therefore of
great importance.
Cost of Wheat-growing
“Accountant”: I don’t know what it costs
to grow a bushel of wheat; but I have
checked scores of calculations, and practi-
cally all of them go wrong at one crucial
point. Among the items they include some-
thing like; “6 p.c. on cost of land, at £7
per acre” —sometimes it is less than £7 and
sometimes more. But if it is so unprofitable
to grow wheat, who said that land was
worth £7 or even £4 an acre?
A World-wide Customs List
The League of Nations has had a com-
mittee of experts at work for five years on
“a general and rationalised catalogue of all
the products of human labor.” Hitherto no
two countries have had the same classifica-
tion of goods for Cus-
toms purposes; and of
late the tendency has
been to make an infinite
number of sub-sections.
In less than a half-cen-
tury the number of items
in the German Customs
tai’iff has increased from
480 to 2300, in Belgium
from 253 to 3078, in
France from 654 to 4371.
The Economic Confer-
ence of 1927 suggested
that a comprehensive
list should be drawn up,
and that each country
should use this as the
basis of its tariff.
The job has now been
done. No. 88, for in-
stance, is oil-seeds and
oleaginous fruits; 88 (a)
is peanuts; 88 lb)
copra; 88 (c) palm ker-
nels; 88 (d) soya beans
—and so on. Each coun-
try would simply put
against the item the tariff
it had decided upon, if
any; so importers and
exporters would be able
to find their way easily
through any tariff. Thus
in every tariff frozen
mutton would be No. 13
(b 2) ; it would thus not
even be necessary to
know the language of a
country which had adopt-
ed the classification to
know what the duty was
on an article.
Of course, it will take
a few years before the
thing can be in general
use; but, assuming the
work has been well done,
it looks like a first-class
reform.
Trade with “the East”
“H.A.L.”; Judging by
some of the things
one reads one would sup-
pose trading with “the
East” was a terribly diffi-
cult matter. An Adelaide
firm hasn’t found it so.
Many years ago it
secured orders by simply
sending samples and price
lists to merchants; later
it instructed an alert
young commercial travel-
ler to see if he could in-
crease sales, and a short
time ago 5000 451 b. cases
of this firm’s soap were
being shipped regularly
every month. Since then,
through the fall in rub-
ber and tin, trade has
fallen off, though it is
still quite good. In all
the years this firm has
been sending soap to the
East it has had only one
complaint, when cases
arrived smashed. They
were flimsy things im-
ported in the shook from
America; thereafter
stouter cases of Piuus
radiata, grown in S. Aus., have been used and
the trouble has not been repeated. The
firm has always been paid promptly and has
found that scrupulous attention to prompt
shipment, quality and packing meant that
the trade took care of itself, even when
high-pressure Yankee salesmen tried to cap-
ture it. This firm’s representative found
that social qualifications certainly helped
towards making a business trip pleasant, but
when the talk swung to business cut no ice
whatever.
Conditions in S. Africa
From an Australian in the Transvaal:—•
Conditions are bad and steadily growing worse
in S. Africa. The politicians have got the country
by the wool, as I judge they also have Australia:
indeed, nepotism seems to be worse here than in
Australia* At any rate, this country is top-heavy
with public servants, mostly appointed by Ministers
and members, a great many of them being relations
and friends. Taxation is so heavy that industry
has been handicapped almost out of existence, and
camps are now being built in several places for
housing the unemployed, mostly “poor whites.”
They represent a problem Australia hasn’t got. In
view of the perpetual menace of the colored races,
the whites have to keep up their prestige, and it
is very difficult to think about the white man’s
prestige when there are thousands of homeless and
hungry white men on the roads. The condition
of the country is all the more astounding in view of
the fact that we are still producing nearly a
million’s worth of gold every week!
And from another:—
In recent Bulletins Rhodesians have told Aus-
tralians that the two countries ’ought to be briskly
trading with one another. The position is really
comical. The S’African Union and the British
Colonies to the north are always at loggerheads
over something or other. Rhodesia at present is
taking exception to embargoes on livestock and
tobacco, its main products: only animals 8001 b. or
more are allowed over the border, and the quantity
of tobacco admitted is 2,000,0001 b. Virginian leaf
and 240,0001 b. Turkish. Even this does not satisfy
many S’Africans. A conference of those interested 1
was held a few months ago at Pretoria, when it
was decided to ask the Union Government to place
a complete embargo on Rhodesian leaf. Farmers’
associations are constantly asking also for the com-
plete exclusion of Rhodesian livestock. Naturally,
Rhodesia, North and South, wants to hit back; and
this explains its strong desire to trade with Australia.
Italy and Its Crisis
Compared with Australia Italy is very
badly off for paper-making materialsbut
that hasn’t stopped development under the
driving force of Mussolini. In 1913 the
output of paper and cardboard was 280,000
metric tons ; now it is over 400,000 metric
tons, and a considerable export trade has
been developed in the finer quality papers.
There is hardly any local timber available for
pulping, so the nation has been struggling
to make cellulose out of straw, esparto
grass, etc.; and 300 depots have been set
up for grading and converting rags. The
attention paid to rags illustrates what
Italian national economy means; the quan-
tity used as raw material for various indus-
tries is 80,000 tons a year. The grading is
done according to the material employed, and
the result is raw material chiefly for paper
or some textile.
“Barcoo”: Queensland, which was one. of
the pioneers of the woollen-manufacturing
industry in Australia, the Ipswich Woollen
Co. having had its looms running over half
a century ago, is to see another enterprise
of the sort. For some time John Morris, an
Ipswich citizen, has been searching for a
suitable site for new mills, and has at last
acquired the Redbank Meatworks site, on the
main line between Brisbane and Ipswich,
from Swifts (Australasia), Ltd. That done
with, Morris proposes to go at once to Eng-
land to buy a complete modern plant; and
with half the firms in Yorkshire working
short-time or shut down altogether, there
should be some bargains to be picked up.
* * * *
Maryborough (Q.) will probably form a
co. to treat lemon-scented tea-trees for citrol
(lemon essence). The Forestry Board has
experimented with the tree, and by steam-
ing the leaves and condensing the vapor has
produced an oil similar to the juice from
a lemon. The only place where lemon
essence is at present produced is said to be
the Malay States, where it is made by steam-
ing a sweet-scented grass.
:Jc sfc
“Si Ann” ; The connection between mach-
inery and the present spectacle of a world
starving amidst plenty may have light
thrown on it by the condition of Kedah.
Kedah is the Malay sultanate whose aero-
drome is one of the stepping-stones on the
aerial route between Britain and Australia.
The peasantry are completely conservative.
They still scratch their ricelands with a
wooden plough and harvest the grain with a
knife so held as to conceal it from the rice
spirit, who might be frightened away if he
saw the lethal weapon. The State has
110,000 acres under rubber, but in the main
is a rice-grower and -eater. Last year it sup-
plied its own wants and exported a handsome
surplus. The foreign debt is inconsiderable
and there is no distress as in the Federated
States, which went in for industrial expan-
sion on a large scale and mainly with the
assistance of foreign capital and Indian and
Chinese coolies. Nevertheless, the peasantry
are agitating for a new system of land
tenure, and in, a petition recently quoted the
Torrens Act, thus forging a fresh link
between the State and Adelaide. Captain
Light, who obtained the grant of Penang
from the sultan 140 years ago, was the
father of Colonel Light, the founder of the
Churchly City.
THE CATS COME BACK.


Public Notice.
TAMES GRAY & SON, of 24 Rood Lane,
J London, E.C.3, established in City of
London for 44 years as Australian Agents,
are prepared to act as buying agents for
Australian Merchants, also ,as selling agents
of Australian products, and are in touch
with various manufacturing and selling
markets throughout England and Scotland.
Correspondence invited from Australian
Merchants and Producers. Any inquiries or
information required will have the prompt
and personal attention of the Firm. Cables
“Routinary, London.” Codes used, A.8.C.,
sth and Otli Ed. and Bentleys.
Publication.
W/M IEATGROWERS, mixed farmers and
VV all interested in the Wheat Industry
should make a noint of getting
“The Land"
Australian Wheat Annual.
This punl.canon, the first of its kind in the
Commonwealth, gives a most comprehensive
and valuable review of the wheat industry
from the world as well as the Australian
viewpoint.
You cannot afford to be without the mass
of authoritative information given in this
new annual.
Written by Australia’s greatest authori-
ties.
Beautifully illustrated.
Copies obtainable at the New South Wales Boob-
stalls, Gordon and Gotch, Ltd., or from ‘-The Land,"
• ■ 59 Regent Street ; Sydney.
Price 6d,
If You Want-Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal,, the “Sunday
Mail,’’ give a second-to-nonc
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong ■ circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: Rlf>22.)
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's •••• “Bitter Sweety
Criterion (com. Saturday) .. “Happy & Glorious
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
j£ixg's “Madame Flays Nap’
tj, fATK Movies and Talkies
♦
“Struck Oil”—Second Edition
It isn’t exactly the story that J. C. 'l-
- and Maggie Moore told in the long
ago; but it had as many thrills and almost
as many happy moments, Robert A. Irega-
nowan and C. O. Chambers were joint
authors and producers. They had bougm
from the Commonwealth Government an un-
known quantity of stone with the plant
necessary for squeezing oil out of it; and
now Senator McDachlan (trained m the
good school of Charley Kingston he was)
was going up to the place marked X to hand
the goods over. And Messrs. Treganowan
and Chambers decided to ask a couple or
hundred friends to go with the Senator and
make a day of it.
Sydney was left by special express at
7.15 on a morning so cold that nobody
wanted to stay. The programme reserved
the first three hours of the journey for light
refreshments; and by the time the party
reached Newnes Junction even the press-
men of the rival dailies were like brothers.
From Newnes Junction to Newnes there
is a spur line of standard-gauge, 30-odd
miles long and built by the original shale-
oil company at a cost of a quarter of a
million. Practically unused for nearly 10
years, and constructed for freight traffic, it
was necessary for. the visitors to tranship
to something lighter. A small engine, geared
down to 32 miles an hour, was tied on to
three carriages holding 20 tons of people
and refreshments, and another act Avas rung
on. A critic who had been to the. show
before, hilariously predicted a derailment.
About five miles out of the Junction it hap-
pened, a rotten sleeper causing one: rail
to “spread,” and after a', series of. bumps
the wheels of the middle carriage sank axle-
deep into the soft .soil.
Then the pressmen showed their mettle,
notwithstanding the holiday atmosphere
While the ordinary members of . the . party
speculatively surveyed the disaster and lit
fires to warm themselves, . the newshounds, :
who began to see possibilities of • a feature
story in the trip,' shinned up .a' telegraph
pole to which, an emergency telephone had
been attached, and ’.-got in touch with
their news-editors. Meanwhile i the, de-
railed tail of the train .was amputated, and
all but a few of the party* clambered; on to
the one remaining carriage and engine. A
reporter who looked like being left up the
pole cut liis story short enough to clamber
in through the window as the train started
off again at a furious six miles an hour.
The rest of the journey was .exciting, and
the speed was reduced to five miles so that
not a thrill might be lost. The rails shivered
and sagged as the engine arid carriage zig-
zagged down the Avails of the valley, brush-
ing through overhanging leaves and small
bushes that had grown up since the works
Avere shut down in 1923. For several miles,
on the left-hand side of the track, stcen cliffs
fell away for hundreds of feet; and in some
cases the edge seemed only a foot or two
from the ends of the sleepers. Each time
the train canted over ~as . it, went..round , a
bend the entire congregation joined in a
plea to Heaven that the white ants had left
the sleepers alone just there. The entire
congregation bar one 1 : he, a Southern Euro-
pean gentleman familiarly called “the
Count,” was persistent in his assurance that
it would he beautiful if all hands went over
the edge and perished together.
At last came glimpses of the floor of the
Wolgan Valley and the tall chimneys of the
plant on which over £1,500,000 had been
spent in the days when all the world had
money to burn. At 3.40, about 5i hours
out from the Junction, and just, before the
sun began to set behind the towering, red-
dish cliffs, the famished party sat down to
a late but very ample lunch. Then Senator
McLachlan officially handed over the works
to Treganowan and Chambers, and did it
iu a tone of voice which suggested that he
Avould take it as a favor if there was no
encore. A pressman who had heard men-
tion of a new railway asked Mr. Chambers
for further information. The reply sug-
gested that Mr. Chambers wasn’t in love
with railways at the moment.
The stay at Newnes Avas cut down from
4£ to 2 hours, and at 5.30 there was a rush
for seats in the train, which now included
an extra carriage and a van. Darkness hid
the curves and cliffs from the passengers,
and every bump or sag was met with a sort
of hilarious apprehension.
The 30-odd miles back to Newnes Junc-
tion took well over five hours. Then into the
express again, and shortly before midnight
dinner was served at Mt. Victoria. Here
pressmen were cruelly torn between duty
(which meant a search through the cold,
sleeping town for a telephone) and dinner.
Dinner unanimously won. Sydney was
reached at 2.10 a.m., and calls for taxis rang
down tho curtain.
After that, if Treganowan and Chambers
don’t make as much out of it as J. ,C. Wil-
liamson and Maggie Moore made out of the
first edition of “Struck Oil,” it will be a
shame.
“Aida,” which 20 years ago used to wag
the tail of Williamsonian grand opera, has
long since moved up to the head. On Satur-
day night at Melbourne Royal the season
was given a great kick-off by a co. which
seemed fully up to its job. With the excep-
tion of understudies, introduced through two
principals being out of sorts, the somewhat
over-populated boards were thronged by a
number of caricatures by Frith, When one
creative artist deals with the work of
another creative artist, the greater realist
wins and Frith’s impressions of the drama-
tic side of the play were far more real than
Verdi’s attempt to make ancient Egyptian
characters live to the eye. Fortunately
Frith was kind enough to leave the volup-
tuous music alone, and its mingled wonder
and bathos smote the ear with a force that
was intensified by the fact that its new
home is considerably smaller than the one
where it would have been heard had Il'is
Majesty’s not been burned. _ As a gorgeous
Christmas pantomime Verdi’s opera stands
on its own; but it has other merits as well.
The Oriental color of the music in the
temple scene is lovely in the extreme; the
singers and the orchestra are never allowed
to break into open war. As substitute for
Anna Surani, down with a cold, the Queens-
land girl Molly de Gunst, looking like Ton-
deleyo in “White Cargo,” did very well, and
in her love scene with Radames on the moon-
lit banks of the Nile she rose to great
heights, whither she was accompanied
vocally, but no't histrionically, by Oreste de
Bcrnardi, ghosting for Pedro Mirassou. The
impression Bernardi conveyed was that if
you cut off his arms he would be unable to
sing, and his solemn expression suggested
that it would have done him a world of good
if he had occasionally burst into tears.
Bfuna Castagna in the cursing scene
scene with Aida, was a volcano of
emotion, which poured molten lava over
an ecstatic audience that asked for more.
Melbourne’s old friend, Apollo Granforte, as
the hairy King of Ethiopia, caused another
breakdown in the smooth progress of the
libretto when he appeared as a prisoner of
war in the train of General Radames, with
his magnificent vocal instrument unimpaired
by the rigors of a desert march. High
priest Ramphis bellowed for enemy blood in
the resonant bass voice of Albino Marone
and any demand for further chiaroscuro in
the tonal scheme was provided by Michele
Fiori, as the Egyptian king. Amneris, her
handmaidens, who sang in English, the
zithers and things and the eleven little
blackamoors gave a touch of vaudeville to
Act 11. Scene 1. 4 In the brilliant, military
triumph : scene the usual modern band instru-
ments appeared in the hands of the court
orchestra, one of whom wore specs., and
another cheerful touch was the appearance
of the Theatre Royal cat in the tomb where
Radames and Aida breathed their tuneful
last. Grand opera is grand fun.
# * *
With Roy Shepherd at the, piano and
John Brownlee chasing Rita Miller round
the grand, the big concert at Melbourne
Town Hall last week was Victoria’s night
CHARACTERS IN “BITTER SWEET.”
(1) Cecil Scott as Vincent Howard. (2) Roger Barry with the green carnation. (3)
Margery Hicklin playing Blindman's Buff. (4) Donalda Warne as Dolly
Chamberlain. (5) Sidney Burchall as Capt. Lutte. (6) Sidney Wheeler, as
the cafe proprietor. (7) Herbert Browne as Carl Linden. (8) Master George
Irving, a waiter. (9) Reginald Dane as Hugh Devon.
out. The only thing that wasn’t Australian
in the performance was the music, which
ranged from Italian and French opera to
German Hcdcr and the trashiest of English
songs. The Geelong baritone has brought
back from fresh triumphs abroad a robuster
figure and a brighter twinkle in his eye. Had
the muse of song not descended on him he
might have provided his town with a reliable
half-back. The three not very distin-
guished songs with which he led off failed
to show the full range and majesty of his
voice, but they were a demonstratiou of
its thorough reliability. It pounced on each
note of the “Silent Worship” of Handel with
the inevitability of a sledge hammer wielded
by expert hands. . Followed Massenet’s
“Vision Fugitive,” from “Herodiade.” Here
the full-throated baritone had something on
which to cut its teeth. Three numbers
by Rubcnstein, Strauss and Liszt gave it
an opportunity to advertise its versatility,
which is perfectly at home in the realm of
Teutonic romanticism. “By a Bier Side,”
by Armstrong Gibbs, not a particularly
melodious example of the song-writer’s art,
was a masterly exercise in intonation, never-
theless; and “W T hen Childer Plays” (Wal-
ford Davies) was delicate comedy. Two
operatic encores served as an explanation of
why Paris likes this singer so imicli. There
is masculine self-confidence and humorous
restraint about even his richest displays of
amatory sentiment. He makes love vocally
with his tongue in his cheek, as it were. Add
singularly pure tone and imaginative phras-
ing, brought to bear on even the most popu-
lar sort of song, and what more does any
concert-goer want?
Rita Miller was heard in “Ah Fors e
Lui,” from “La Traviata”; some of the
audience broke into the middle of it with
applause owing to the uncontrollable pres-
sure of their emotions or possibly because
they thought the aria had • ended. Miss
Miller is pretty, has an appealing platform
manner and a fluent voice. Some of her notes
were more dramatic than musical, and her
ability to give character to what, she sings
was most beautifully exhibited in “My
Mother Bids Me Bind My Hair.” The high-
lights of the evening were the duets from
“Rigoletto.” and “Don Giovanni,” sung per-
fectly by her and her male accomplice in
melody. There will be a second concert
to-night (Wednesday, Oth).,
* # ¥
Australia’s most prolific composer Fritz
Hart, was responsible for all the programme
at the Albert-street Conservatorium, Mel-
" bourne, last week. Prof. Hart’s melodies
have been skilfully set to some of Humbert
Wolff’s poetry, and they were sung by Muriel
Cheek! Present writer’s impression was that
the composer’s inspiration was more Celtic
than anything else. His music certainly didn t
smell of eucalyptus or ring with the crack
of stockwhips or resound with the kooka-
burra’s laugh. An effect of monotony was
possibly due to a half-dozen or more of the
songs being delivered one on top’of the other,
a test that even the most eminent composer
would find severe. There are some delight-
ful passages in tlio airs all the same.
After a week of “La Traviata” and two
nights of “Rigoletto,” the Toti Co.
abandoned the Princess, Melbourne, and
the enterprise of staging Italian opera by
Australians is now a dim memory. On
its tombstone might be written, “Another
Victim of the Talkies.” Worse productions
have received better attention from the
public in bygone days when there was less
competition. But the films have created a
lust for so-called “realism” that has. made
the public hypercritical of the romantic con-
ventions of grand opera, especially of the
old school, and in. more places than Mel-
bourne. Moreover, the talkies, the wireless
and the gramophone have educated the col-
lective ear of the' multitude to a higher
standard of vocalism than any of the com-
pany, good as some of them were, could
attain to. If any more reasons are required
to temper the cold winds of Disappointment,
there are the Depression and the fact that a
company mostly-Italian was coming to the
Royal.
* * H-
Noel Coward’s gorgeously-dressed musical
comedy “Bitter Sweet” sprang into being
;at Sydney Tier Majesty’s on Saturday. The
costumes, ranging over a period of nearly
60 years, are a feast in themselves, and the
crowds, probably the largest ever, grouped
on the Australian’ stage, are realistic and
animated. 1 The ’ scene' opens at a modern
house party given by the very old and tot-
tering Marchioness of Shayne at her Gros-
venor-square mansion. The hostess sur-
prises one of her guests, Dolly Chamberlain,
in the arms of Vincent Howard, a hired
pianist, and, Dolly being engaged to a noble-
man, the old lady is moved to denunciations
of the morals of the present generation.
Stung by a flippant retort, she proceeds to
confess her own life story, bursting into song
for the purpose. The scene changes to reveal
her warbling another song in her home in
Belgrave-square in 1875, when she was the
young and beautiful Sarah Millick, learning
music under and developing an attachment
for Carl Linden, though betrothed to Hugh
Devon, a young wowser of the period. The
same evening at a ball in honor of her en-
gagement she meets Carl and discovers
she can never be happy without him. The
pair elope forthwith. Five years pass, and
they are seen in a Vienna cafe, where Carl
co'nducts the orchestra and Sarah warbles to
the patrons. Among these are four iydies
who tunefully relate their joys and sorrows;
waiters and' charladies arc just as ready
to burst into song at the slightest pro-
vocation. Sarah is forcibly kissed by the phi-
landering Captain August Lutte. and Carl,
resenting the insult, finds himself let in for
a duel, which eliminates him from the cast.
Sarah, thrown on her own resources, de-
velops her voice so effectively that she be-
comes a prima donna. The Marquis of
Shayne, after numerous refusals, wins her.
This in 1895—20 years after her matri-
monial venture —at a reception in his own
house, among other guests being the ladies
who were to have been her bridesmaids, and
Hugh, still a prig. This scene is! the high
peak in the Marchioness’s reminiscences, and
presently we see her back in the opening
one singing the theme song of the operetta,
“I’ll See You Again.” Howard, the pianist,
who has been obligingly accompanying the
old lady, is unimpressed with the story—he
doesn’t want to dash off with Dolly—but
sees a chance of making money out of the
melody in Tin Can Alley. Shouting to his
fellow-members of the jazz band, he disap-
pears crying out, “Boys, boys, I’ve got some-
thing good!” Dolly is left all dressed up
and nowhere to go.
Coward’s method of tolling the old lady’s
bitter-sweet reminiscences is not original,
but it impresses one by its mass of details,
mostly faithful, though the duel scene is
over-melodramatic. The music is tuneful.
Margery Ilioklin, as the Marchioness, domi-
nated the production with her polished act-
ing and her rich voice. Herbert Browne
might have sparkled a little more, but there
was no othe fault to find with’ his Carl.
Sidney Rurchall made an admirable Captain
Lutte, and showed to special advantage
in a> rollicking drinking song. Romola
Hansen, who <■ appeared as a songandance
artist in the cafe scene, scored a hit for her
pert delivery of “Bonne Nuit, Merci.”
Donalda Warne was a charming Dolly
Chamberlain, Mona Barlee an effective
Gussi; Dorothy Stanward made fine use
of a high-pitched voice and exaggerated
mannerisms as the damsel who married
Hugh Devon, while Dorothy Dunckley (Mrs.
Millick), Lorna Forbes (Hugh Devon’s
mother) and Gwyneth Lascelles furnished
capital minor studies. Among the less im-
portant males, Eo'yce Milton (Marquis of
Shayne), Cecil Scott (Vincent Howard),
Reginald Dane (Hugh Devon) and Sidney
Wheeler (Herr Sclilick) did their bit, while
Keith Johns, Roger Barry, Arthur Riddell
and Dick Rivron deserve mention for their
handling of the “Green Carnation” turn.
George Highland produced the gigantic
affair, Maggie Dickinson arranged the bal-
lets, and the large orchestra was directed by
Andrew MacCunn. The picturesque scenery
was the work of George Upward and W.
Little.
* * *
The Pickwick Theatre Group presented
Soomerset Maugham’s “The Constant Wife”
at Sydney Savoy on Wednesday night.
Amateurs, as a rule, make heavy going of
a conversational play, with no dramatic
movement to help it along, but these suc-
ceeded in capturing much of the spirit of
the piece. John Middleton (Eric Howell)
is a prosperous middle-aged surgeon; Con-
stance (Adele Quinn), his attractive
wife. John’s passion for Marie-Louise
Durham (Dorothea Vautier), a young mar-
ried woman, is being discussed when the
curtain rises by Constance’s mother (Patricia
Pantin), and sister (Mimi Spaull), and
Barbara Fawcett (Eve Rosengarden), a
family friend. Meanwhile, the supposedly un-
informed Constance is busy welcoming home
from Japan Bernard Iversal (Wilfred
Blacket), an old suitor, as ardent as ever.
John leaves his cigarette-case in Marie-
Louise’s room. Mortimer (R. E. G. North),
the husband, makes the most of it, and
that in Constance’s presence. The latter
unexpectedly comes to her husband’s rescue
by declaring that Exhibit A was left by her-
self. Then she discloses to all whom it may
concern that she was aware of the affair
from the beginning, and'she tells John that
she will continue to live with him, but
must be economically free. She goes into
a business partnership with Barbara, and
at the end of a year staggers her husband
by handing him £lOOO for her share of the
household expenses and announcing her
intention of taking a short motor holiday
on the Continent with Bernard. John
storms unavailingly ; all he gets is a promise
that the lady will return to him. Adele
Quinn held the show together with her able
portrayal. Eric Howell was as effective as he
could be without looking the part; Mimi
Spaull was a satisfactory carping sister;
Dorothea Vautier was good in patches; and
Patricia Pantin sometimes forgot her late
fifties.
* # *
Adelaide Royal, closed since the Thorn-
dike co. moved on, is just getting busy again
with “Blue Roses.” The Conservatorium
quartet, Bernstein, Harold Parsons, Sylvia
Whitington and Kathleen Meegan, has
ended a particularly fine series of nine re-
citals, with Prof. ITarold Davies giving
interpretative remarks.


BULLY
HAYES
Barrator, Bigamist, Buccaneer, Black-
birder and Pirate. An authentic life
of William Henry Hayes, of Ohio or
New York, U.S.A., compiled and
written by A. T. Saunders.
Read this remarkable narrative of
BULLY HAYES,
THE PIRATE OF THE
PACIFIC OCEAN.
PRICE 1/2 (Post Free).
Copies obtainable from: —
THE SUNDAY TIMES Publishing
CO., LTD.,
Stirling Street, Perth, Western
Australia.
Amusements.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Go.
KING’S THEATRE:
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE in a Costume Comedy
Romance,
MADAME PLAYS NAP.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES,
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BITTER SWEET.
CRITERION: HAPPY AND GLORIOUS.
(Commencing Saturday.)
Wanted. _____
\Y/ANTED, by young man, position on
W station,"Central or Western Queensland
or New South Wales. Can ride and handle
teams and stock. Good working knowledge
of carpentery, building, blacksmithing and
fitting. Can run and service internal-com-
bustion engines, windmills and power-pumps.
Can keep books and understands the prin-
ciples of survey, levelling, land measurement
and irrigation.—239 Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 770 of 1932.
Between EDNA VIVIAN HANORAH BRIEDIS
Petitioner
And ALBERT BRIEDIS Respondent.
To ALBERT BRIEDIS formerly of 10 Wolseley-
road Point Piper Gardener.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Edna Vivian
Hanorah Briedis has eoinmeneed a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a Decree
for tlie dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds that you have deserted her by reason of
your failure to comply with the terms of a Decree
for Restitution of Conjugal Rights granted by this
Honorable Court on the eighteenth day of November
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
Appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-first
day of September next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
Dated this 22nd day of June, 1932.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
NEVILLE W. MONTAGU & LAPTHORNE,
Solicitors for Petitioner,
228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
SAORSTAT EIREANN
TO PATRICK GEOGHEGAN and MARTIN
1 GEOGHEGAN brothers of Christopher Geoghegan
late of Girley Fordstown Kells County Meath li eland
Deceased or their children or personal representatives
respectively. Pursuant to an Order of the “'oh
Court of Justice Irish Free State in a Cause Boland
v. Lee the next-of-kin of the said Cteistophei Geog-
hegan and particularly the abo renamed Patrick
Geoghegan and Martin Geoghegan his brothers if
alive or if they are dead their children or persona
representatives respectively are on or before th e 12th
day of October 1932 required to enter and prove
their claims at the Central Office Law Courts Dublin
or in default thereof they may be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order
Wednesday the 19th day of October 1932: at the
Examiner’s Office Law Courts Dublin is appointed
for the hearing and adjudicating on the claim .
Dated this 25th day of May, 1932-
(Signed) JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
“HTEE BARRIER MINER” scheme
for a new Upper House for N. S. Wales
is attracting’ some attention, as it should. It
is worth your while to read it and think it out.
It is surprising how the circulation of this
daily newspaper stands up against all the draw-
backs of the times. There is a good deal of
money about in Broken Hill, however,
advertisers are the people who know it. The
Barrier Miner’s” real genuine daily sales for
cash are unequalled in N.S.W. west of Albury.
'Jlciit ciubtt you ict/A
utitkcuttkinkiny, Mi {PtcaHz.
Speaking in the House of
Representatives recently,
Mr. J. H. Prowse,
made an attack
on the Sugar Industry,
urging that Australia
should import black-
grown sugar.
V.' *
&
X
\\«r-
-■'itnnnr-:
v; *‘
V
&
v
Dear Mr. Prowse:
My husband has just shown me the report
of a speech you made in the Federal Parliament
recently. I told him that 1 thought it was a very
silly speech. “Very silly,” he said, “write and
tell him so.” Hence this letter.
You said that we Australians should abandon the sugar industry in South
Wales and Queensland and import our Sugar from Java or some other black-labor
Gantry That was an extraordinary statement for a farmers representative to
, * i •. „r. tUa nrese nt time, there is a collapse in the ksugar
MTrkets S orthe m world. The price of sugar is lower than it has ever been, 1 understand
lvlaißets or rne wun r slump, you propose to abandon an industry
that £20,000,000* of capital invested in plant and land, and that gives
employment to about 30,000 families.
“Switch ’em over to dairying,” you are
credited with logical minds, Mr. Prowse,
of that argument. How are you going to
sugar mills and tramways over to dairying,
families while the “switching” is going on.
are suited to dairying, and whether you wo
30,000 dairy farms at “economic prices?
talking, like so many other people?
reported to have said. We women are not
but even a schoolgirl would see the silliness
switch” some millions of pounds worth of
What are you going to do with the 30,000
Do you know whether these coastal lands
uld be able to sell the product of another
Or were you just talking for the sake of
You are not advocating that we should abandon the Clothing Trade of Melbourne
I ii clothes ready-made from England, are you? Or abandon all out
breweries and import Bass beer? Or abandon our Dried Fruit industry and get our
raTs7ns from Aia Minor? Or abandon our Furniture Factor.es and get all our furniture
Irom Hong Kong where it is so very much cheaper-and worse? Or abandon our
Australian ships and let Japan run our shipping tiade.
Admit it now! You talked without thinking! The Sugar Industry is necessary to
Australia’s economic and national life and anything you Southern people do to injure
it will rebound on you.—Yours, etc.,
ANOTHER GROWER’S WIFE.
*Sugar Inquiry Committee’s Report, 1930, p. 169.
insetted bu the,
Sugar Grouiers of Australia
Jot the information, of the. S/eople
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Arsene Lupin,” as talkiefied at Sydney
St. James, is an ideal medium for the art
of the Barrymore brothers. For hve-sixtns
of its 8000 ft.. it is drawing-room comedy,
with Lionel, as the Paris Surety’s crack de-
tective, being repeatedly outwitted by .John,
as the burglarious Duke of Charmerace.
John meets his Waterloo, and the show
goes melodramatic when he steals the iviona
Lisa. The theft is one of the film s weak
spots. A white-bearded flower-seller gets it
during an incredible disturbance m the
peaceful Louvre, and slips it. to John as h;s
double—all under the eyes of Lionel and his
myrmidons. Another absurdity is Johns
dive from a Seine bridge about four times
higher than nature to freedom and the Jove
of Karen Morley. Karen has been let out
of prison to spy on him, but falls in love
and is recreant to her trust, ihe climactic
moment arrives when Lionel arrests John
for stealing the picture. The position is
that Karen will go back to gaol unless John
agrees to hand it back, and that Lionel will
be ruined professionally if he doesn t. Lionel
has all John’s assistants under arrest, as
against which John is in possession ot
Lionel’s adored daughter. The deadlock
affords an opportunity for some first-class
emotional acting by all parties. Eventu-
ally John is so edified by Lionel s decision
to sacrifice his daughter rather than tail
down on his jarb that he _ produces the pic-
ture, and Lionel is so edified by the noble
gesture that he connives in the aristocratic
crook’s escape. There are scores of smart
lines and some beautiful sets.
* * *
“The Chinese Puzzle,” at Sydney May-
fair, is a British picture which seems to
have been lifted whole from the stage. It s
not so much a talkie as a talkie-talkie. Ihe
cast, which includes Leon M. Lion, James
Raglan and Austin Trevor, is all right; the
direction is to blame for its deadly slow-
ness. “In a Monastery Garden,’’ which fol-
lows, tells how two English brothers fall in
love with the same girl. After a series ot
remarkable happenings the elder enters a
monastery. lie is suspected of murder, but,
of course, is in-no-cent, and the fact is
established in due course. It’s a gloomy
effort, but the monastery scenes and some ot
the incidental music are satisfying.
* *
Richard Bafthelmess in “Alias the Doc-
tor,” at Sydney Regent, is an orphan who
saves his foster-mother’s son by confessing
to an illegal operation of which the son
Was guilty. He does his stretch and then
makes his way to the village where Ihe
offender is practising. Simultaneously the
other dies, and Richard performs a tricky
operation on the child-victim of a motor
smash. He is on the way to becoming
Vienna’s greatest surgeon—-Hollywood
brooks no half-measures in affairs of this
kind—and the husband of a nice girl when
his foster-mother arrives to expose and ruin
him. Yes; you have guessed aright. She
has an accident, and he operates success-
fully on her. And so he wins to peace and
the' happiness of a great love. It is well
acted by a big cast, and the innumerable
scenes include a German farm, university
classes, students’ quarters, a prison and the
interior of a sanatorium.
*s*
In R.K.O.’s “Girl of the Rio,” at Sydney
Ilaymarket, Dolores Del Rio loves Norman
Foster, a gambling-house attendant. Leo
Carillo frames the hero for murder, and
Dolores runs off with him to save her man.
Norman gives chase (with peestol), and jus-
tice is duly vindicated. Dolores looks sinu-
ously beautiful, and CarilloMs suitably vil-
lainous. Seymour Hicks and Betty Stock-
field are the stars of the other one. He is
about to' shoot himself at Monte Carlo,
being broke, when he meets and loves her on
sight. The rest of the picture is typically
Hicksian —noisy and somewhat naughty—
and it moves fast for a 8.1. P. production.
Betty Stockfield looks her best, and all the
small-part players are good.
¥ * V
“Ladies of the Jury” (R.K.O), at Syd-
ney Lyceum, is a farce, in which gaunt
Edna May Oliver depicts a wealthy
woman serving on a mixed jury of her
social inferiors. All favor the convic-
tion of the ex-chorus girl who is charged
with shooting her husband, except Edna;
and the humor consists in her methods of
winning the opposition round to her way of
thinking. She is a brilliant fun-maker of
her type, and Rosco Ates, Ken Murray,
George Humbert and the rest act up to her
effectively.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 6
JNestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 25
Anchises 10,000 „ Nov. 29
•First class only. f First and third class,
tCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
BaUety 8 Co.. Ltd. l j0l „,
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd. j Aeent9
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . , , ,
Total Reserves approximately .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted .. a
'• *• •• Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
: £ embla Building ’ 58 Mar « aret Strcet > Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH oSsr A A M : n N °r'Sv Uni ° n Buil ' din *- Wa^outh Street, Adelaide.
’ I ril QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London.
Bombay, Smgapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
mm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitlelcl,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
.. , \ ■ 3Y ai^ ekl : Henare, dining with
a pakeha friend at a restaurant, ordered
plums and custard. His table manners had
attracted some attention, so the friend
demonstrated the approved method of deal-
ing with the dish. “That,” he concluded
3 e a S 1 \ ely ’ r ‘i? tho pakeha way.” Henare
nodded cheerfully, and commenced to eat in
his own manner conveying stones and all
into his mouth. His host noticed with con-
cern that Henare was not returning the
stones to his plate. “Gosh, he’s swallowing
them! was his unspoken thought: but he
was soon undeceived. The native, his plate
clean, leaned forward, opened his huge jaws
SAVING THEIR
BACON.
MR. PIG: “The little
suckers eat too much.”
MRS. PIG : “Oh, give ’em
time — they’ll be cured.”
and, scooping round one bulging cheek with
his tongue, noisily, deposited a steaming mass
ot stones on to his plate. Then he beamed
on the other diners, most of whom were
grnimng. “T’at,” he announced brightly, “is
te Maori wav.”
* ' * * *
Maranbini”: In a big waterhole on
’' hittabrananah run, north-west N.S.W.,
there was a quaint-looking object that for
years was a puzzle to strangers. It was a
square structure that was built with poles
on a mudbank when the water was low,
and was the brilliant idea of a new-clium
kangaroo-shooter for potting the marsupials
as they came to drink at dusk. The drought
broke suddenly. Several days afterwards the
boundary-rider rode across to have a look
round, and found Percy marooned and starv-
ing in his box, which was then 20 yards out
from the shore. A flood had rushed down
a feeding gully and raised the water to
swimming depth before he discovered what
was happening—and Percy couldn’t swim.
During his long wait not a kangaroo had
come to the hole; the quarry was frisking
amid plenty elsewhere. Not far away, about
the same time, a man was floodbound on an
islet on Bulloo Downs for 42 days. When
found by a drover’s blackboy, he was so
emaciated that he couldn’t stand or speak.
“Rokko” : Most birds, wild or tame, have
an order of precedence (B. 22/6/’32). Watch
a flock of doves or pigeons and note the
vindictive manner in which the gentle crea-
tures resent the intrusion of certain birds
when the gathering has struck a food patch.
These unfortunates have to wait until the
elect have finished their repast before getting
a chance to participate. Canaries are the
same. There is always one bird which eats
first, and sees that the others await his
pleasure, while they also partake accord-
ing to rank in the bird-world. We recently
hau. to remove a canary from a cage con-
taining four others to prevent his early
demise from starvation; he was so socially
impossible, apparently, that his companions
refused to permit him to eat in their
presence. It was not physical inferiority
on his part; he was the largest bird of the
five.
Walk-about ; In Westralia and Centralia
are many lakes like Buchanan (B.
«/(>/ o 2), being _ veritable saltbeds when
dry; then there's abundance of salt to
Pi 0 pi< & e< ?,. up by tbose requiring it. Out on
the Mulligan, south-western Queensland,
there are acres of small gibber-like pebbles,
hard as timt and as salty as the water from
uuT ead Sea - It s bard work pounding the
pebbles up with the back of an axe, but
beef into which the powder is rubbed’ will
keep for months, and give the consumer a
magnificent thirst when beer is handy. Once
dining a breakdown in the camel transport
service between Marree (S.A.) and Birdsville
IQ-D Mulligan, salt pebbles were sold in the
Birdsville stores at 2d. a pound.
‘ .Strict Vcg. : A probable by-product of
these mystery hikes” in Vic. and N. S.
Wales will be a sharp rise in the mar-
riage rate. Young and old, male and female
are taken by special train to rendezvous in
the lulls and there handed maps. They then
proceed to tramp along the route laid down
a distance usually of about 12 miles. At
the end of the tramp another train awaits
them to take them back to town. Ambu-
lances follow the processions, and there are
song leaders and other aids to the produc-
tion of .spontaneous joy amidst the beauties
of Nature. Most of the hikers begin by
being strangers to each other, but the bar-
riers are soon broken down.
: The escape of an entellus
monkey from Taronga Zoo (Sydney) pro-
vided some mild
excitement for
North Shore
residents.
Keepers vainly
attempted t o
catch him, and
their hope that
hunger would
compel him to
return to his
fellows was
frustrated b y
kindly h o use-
holders, who
handed out free
rations to the
escapee. I ven-
ture to suggest
for such cases
a plan which
worked with
the countless
pet monkeys
kept by th e
A.I„F. in Egypt.
These were
always escap-
ing and did a
lot of mischief
in the mess-
rooms .of the
fixed camps
rou n d Cairo.
The plan was
to put out a
basin of intoxi-
ea n t whe r e
Jacko could
find it. The
particular mon-
key to whom I
was exposed—
a do g-f ac e d
baboon—had a
weakness for
port. Whatever the tipple or the variety of
monkey, the result was always the same. The
victim found himself unable to climb into
safety on trees or the tops of the sheds and
was captured in a disgraceful condition.
Ibis was followed by the usual recovery, and
the man who came along with a reviver
made a monkey friend for life.
*'* * *
C ompost”: London “Morning Post” re-
cently announced the discovery of a new
“giant orchid” in Queensland, and set all the
collectors buzzing. The discovery
was said to be 45ft. high, with
flower spikes 6ft. long. It turns out
to be au old friend, the climbing
orchid, Galeola foliata, familiar in
many parts of Queensland, especi-
ally in the rain forests of the south-
east. There are other climbing
orchids which grow to a similar
size. One of the best-known is the
vanilla orchid, from which the
vanilla of commerce is manufac-
tured.
“Jim Jams”: Any Abo.-liar ever
heard of the fish-killing insect of
the N.T. and some parts of Queens-
land, where he is known as the fish-
ing bug, his book name being Belos-
toma indicum? He is about three
inches long and inhabits quiet pools
m the daytime. The beast is a
free swimmer, and has two fore-
limbs specially suited for grabbing
bis prey. That done, he inserts a
curved beak and sucks his victim,
usually a small fish, dry. To
humans, his most unpleasant habit
is that of leaving his pool at night
and flying into houses, attracted
thereto by the lights. As they fly at a great
rate, a smack in the eye from one well under
way is no joke. One peculiarity of the
female of the species is that she carries her
eggs about glued to her back. In fact one
can say with truth that the family are much
attached to one another.
* * * *
“Old Gira”: Wonderful how these old
yarns linger on and find new abiding-places.
The other day a brisk lad from New Guinea
told me a story as having happened there
which I first heard on the Yodda
in IJOo. J here was a storekeeper who prided
himself intensely on two good dogs he
owned—dogs were a necessary part of a
white Papuan's outfit in those wild days
but, being a Scot, of the near type, he didn’t
feed them well. One day the warden called
at Bogi and remarked on the skinniness of
the tykes. “Alec,” he said, “don’t you ever
feed those poor brutes?” “Feed them’”
replied Alec indignantly. “Evra day each
yin o’ them gets a tin o’ bulamakau.” “It
don t seem to do them much good,” persisted
the official. “Ah, weel,” countered Alec;
“yon’s joist because they’re tae daamned
lazy tae use th’ tin-opener.”
* * Sc
“C. Coral’; Beche-de-mer has dropped in
price considerably, and the trepang-getters
of Torres Strait have been turning their
SERVICE.
YOUNG IKEY (to customer, who has arrived to get his suit out of
pawn). "Fader von’t keep you a minute. He’s just takin'
your trousers off.”
attention to trochus- and pearl-shell fishing—
chiefly the latter since the price of mother-
o -pearl was lifted to about £lBO a ton. In
working M.O.P. the phases of the moon have
to be watched, so as to get out in “clear
water,” when conditions are best. Owing
to various causes, though, “clear water”
varies in the Strait; one portion may be a
couple of days later than another. Another
thing that affects shell-collecting in the nor’-
western part is the fresh water that comes
tumbling down from the rivers of New
Guinea: this produces a disturbed condi-
tion which makes it very difficult for the
skin-diver to see what he is doing. Sharks
still collect their quota of human toll. One
lad was taken off the Warrior reefs the
other day. Incidents of this kind usuallv
have an unnerving effect on the native crew.
As one boy described it. “When we go down,
always we see that thing again just like pic-
ture, that shark killing that boy, and our
body come no good!”
**■ * *
“Maluka”: There are oniy two seasons in
the N.T., the “wet” and the “dry.” The dry
season lasts from April until November, and
during this time no more equable climate
could be found. The cloudless skies and
sunny days and the cold, frosty nights are
ideal. The roads are dry and firm, and com-
munication between the townships and the
widely-separated stations is maintained by
cars and trucks. Aeroplanes arrive weekly
from the south with mail, and wireless keeps
the station-hand as much abreast of current
ev( nts as the man in the city. During the
wet season, however, roads and landing-
groun ds 1 are too boggy for cars and ’planes,
and the stations are almost as isolated as
atolls in mid-ocean. This is bad enough, but
by a harsh vagary of Fate statics make wire-
less reception almost an impossibility at a
time when it is most needed.
* * * *
“Wook”: Before “Hamer” sets out
for England to start mouse-farming (B.
22/6/’32) he might consider the possibili-
ties of our inland water-rats. These are
abundant in parts and grow coats that are
almost as furry as ’possum skins. The fur
is thick, short and blackish, and, as the
creatures are clean-livers, it is usually free
from mange and other blemishes. I * knew
a family of girls who trapped rats in the
Lachlan country. They used ordinary rabbit-
traps, baited them with meat and plugged
them in on the banks of the river. Cun-
ning as foxes, water-rats are not "easy to
snare, but these girls managed to secure
decent bags, and winter skins brought as
much as Os. each.
OLD MOTHER MURRAY,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The lioney-birds come up and sing
-Right against your doorstep •
The lioney-myrtle scents the air
All through the day.
There s deep shade beneath the gums,
And green grass growing
On the soft warm sandbanks
Where rabbits come to play.
The whistle of the wild-ducks
Sounds along the channel
When the cool fresTi west wind
Whispers in the trees •
The bullfrogs and mopokes
Talk around the billabongs
All through the night
Till the sun wakes the bees.
And old Mother Murray moves.
Solemnly and smoothly,
Between her ancient boundaries
Soundless and slow—
Dreaming of the days when
The chiefs of the Narrinyeri
Camped among the swamp-gums,
A hundred years ago!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
Cbmmoiwealtl) Savinas JBank of Hustralia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS ..
,whstt of the advertisements?
"The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result it
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Reoresentative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007,
“Orokolo”: Port Moresby witnessed an
unusual court case recently when one
Gamoga of Kapa Kapa was charged that, in
the night-time and with intent to annoy, he
had thrown stones on the galvanised-iron
roof of a local resident. The practice of
heaving a rock on the l’oof of an enemy is
not rare in Australia, though it seems to be
new in Port Moresby. But, in the days when
the writer knew something of Papua, the
natives of the south-western end of that
country had their own variant of this diffi-
NO ’PENDENCE ’PON THEY HARES.
“Saw a beauty great hare just now, boay."
“Well, why dedden ’ee shoot un?”
“’S like this. ’E was zig-zag gin’ ’cross paddock when I seed un.
I up 'n' fired at un when ’e was ziggin'; but when bullet
got there—why, boay, dang me ef ’e wasn' zaggin’."
ance. The injured party, announcing his
intention by various howls, would dive into
his house and bring out liis bow and arrows.
Then, repairing to the residence of the un-
liked one. he would work himselt into a
frenzy, the while shooting arrows through
the thatch. It was usual to accompany this
performance with comments upon the house-
holder and his family which, in the words
of Miss Squeers, “my pen would blush to
repeat.” The other party to the disturbance
sat low, and onlookers vanished like snow on
the river. The big Western Papuan bow is
an ugly weapon, and sometimes the marks-
man would transfer his attention from the
housetop to any visible target.
“Wobey”: We saw him while
strolling along the West St. Kilda
(Vic.) beach. He seemed to be fish-
ing from the shore, and we won-
dered what he could possibly be fish-
ing for. As we approached he had
an imaginary bite, hauled in an
imaginary line, took an imaginary
fish off an imaginary hook and
dropped it into an imaginary basket.
"Bats in the belfry,” said Jim. I
nodded and suggested asking the
poor devil to have a drink. Jim
acted on it, and after pulling in and
rolling up his “line” and picking up
liis “basket,” the fisherman accom-
panied us to the nearest pub. “Any
luck with the fishing, Bill?” asked
the barman of our guest as he placed
the drinks before us. “Not bad," said
Bill with a glance towards us. “This
is the tenth.” Jim made it the
eleventh.
"Loo Lear”: “Pick” (B. 15/6/’32) men-
tions floods. In recent years we have seen
Clermont swept away and the Nullarbor
Plains turned into a miniature ocean —an
occurrence hitherto unknown to white men.
Then the country below Launceston got its
issue. Still, no doubt, there have been
greater floods and droughts in. many Aus-
tralian localities than any within the white
man’s memory. For example, red-gum seeds
will not germinate under water, yet giant
red-gums stand in many Vic. swamps that
no man has ever seen dry., These must have
started growing during some boss drought.
“Pick”: Sad is the plight of a nocturnal
bird forced abroad in daylight. This some-
times happens to an owl disturbed in a
hollow tree or a rock cranny by a goanna
or by a hunter after ’possums. The fugitive
seeks to hide among the bushes; but from
the first woodpecker or gillbird that sights
it comes a call to war, and all the feath-
ered small fry of the region obey the sum-
mons. The owl is beaten from its perch
and chivvied through the thickets until it
falls to the ground. There it fights back,
but against the horde of foes its resistance
is feeble, and in a cloud of drifting feathers
it is ultimately pecked to death.
“Mulgo”: William Hatfield, who has a
couple of good books to his credit, is setting
out to walk
round Australia
for more “copy.
It is the best
way to see the
country, and the
only way to
know it thor-
oughly. Most
visitors w’hose
object is a book
on Aus tralla
stick to the
comfortable
railway a n d
glimpse a swim-
ming ribbon of
country that is
about as elo-
quent as the
rushing views
on a picture
scree n. The
main scenery on
a railway line
is embankments,
interspersed
with tunnels
and long lines
of heavy fences,
the bleached
panels of which
invite the tour-
ist to try Kill-
em’s pills and
to drink Hogg’s
whisky. T h e
motor whizzes
more than the
train, and keeps
the driver
watching the
track. Horse
vehicles are
better, and the
saddle the best,
in the way of
transport; you
can learn a lot
about the peculiarities and characteristics of
the districts and their denizens and citizens
while travelling with horse and pack. But
on foot you get acquainted with even the
goannas.
“Merri Creek” : In these days, when aero-
planes bring most of the gold-seekers’ re-
quirements to the Bulolo and Edie Creek,
modern inhabitants of New Guinea are apt
THE PLOUGHMEN HOMEWARD PLOD THEIR WEARY. WAY.
t-n mow of tho humble native-carrier who
made the opening up of Papua possible and
laid the foundations of the New Guinea
fields. The other day, Guinea Airways
wanted to transfer two wings of one of
their giant Junkers from Bulolo to then
seaside aerodrome Lae. 1 hough these
‘planes have carried huge masses ot
machinery for the mines Bill
accommodate the 2<>ft. by lift, wings, rsm
O'Ni'ili, one of the lVrrirory s itomy.
commissioned to do the job. ..athered a
gang of boys and, after roughlj crating
the wings, got them down unharmed to the
coast. The job meant the lowering of the
wings down precipitous cliffs and the raft-
ino- of them some distance down a tropical
river, but they arrived in first-class condi-
tion, after four weeks of heart-breaking
transport in which as many as 80 hoys
were employed at once.
* * * .
“Country Ped ’: From personal experi-
eifee I caii vouch for this uncommon tooth-
ache remedy, a very handy one for country
folk: Beat up the whites of two eggs; add
a tablespoon of pure olive oil; beat again
till thoroughly mixed. Spread on a piece of
flannel, and apply to the afflicted part ot
the face. An Italian friend induced me to
try if: he assured me it was a common cure
in Italy.
* * * *
“Mundowie”- Just before the roll-call
in interest centres in the
“poisoner.” Many of the chiefs of the flour-
bag, the Babbling Brooks of the hut, are
known by nicknames, which hinge on some
personal’peculiarity. There was “the Siient
Member, who handed out tuckci to
travellers without speaking a word to
ot them. The Raw Material never »aie
anything away that was .cooked. Black-
guard Brummy’ was noted for sultry lan-
guage. and overproof yarns ,A ; scholarly
blackguard, die could curse the finicky diner
in several languages. ■ "Jimmy the Rooster
was a rough cook who was hard to shitt
once he got perched in a hut; fcoldiei
Green,” ail army veteran, was a bit ot a
dandy! So was “Flash Patsy,” whose swag
included hair oils and perfumes; and “Lady
Carrington,” whose special weakness was
red socks and white waistcoats. Jimmy the
Rambler” would throw up his job and ramble
on very little provocation. Other notables
were “the Tropical Frog,” Clever Mary,
“Lady May,” “Jacky-without-a-shirt,” “Scotty
the Wrinkler” and “the Busted Oven.
* * * *
“TYimvodai” • We were ninnin o ' out to the
nearC grounds from Broome in the
schooner“ Eva, which carries provisions,
water and gear to the working vessels, re-
ixinsfes; SKS' 'BKft
STStSS
f'T"b frnSto °of Wrt
he said. “I was afraid Lew s was cuok n
*tliat°he wasn’t.” Next night
Lewis “tried hard not to snore. Mind
triumphed over matter, a “ d he slept qmetty.
Slack, who wap' awakened
commented on this to did dt you
morning*. Well, a
awake last night,” lie said. "Yes. he did.”
Bird growled. “I lay awake all night wait-
ing for the blighter to begin.”
•!' *•* v
“Last Time”: “K.E.D.” (B, 2.>, .»/ •!-'
slips when he says more sheep are sold at
Newmarket ( Vic.) than anywhere in Austra-
lasia. That distinction belongs to Flemington.
where Sydney’s meat supply is auctioned, and
where, for many weeks on end. over 100,Oun
sheep are disposed of weekly. Flemington, of
course, draws on a huge area for its supplies.,
while Newmarket’s offerings arc limited to
the Cabbage Garden and its immediate en-
vironment.
“Dor Jong”: The depression is making
itself felt among the monkey inhabitants of
South Africa, even. The spread of popula-
tion in the Eastern Province of the Cape
and the consequent clearing of forests which
harbored hordes of baboons have driven the
beasts to the cultivated fields for a living.
Tne baboon has always been a pest to the
Cape farmer; he not only raids crops but is
partial to young lamb as well. Efforts have
been made for years to wipe out the plague
with poison, as in the case of the Austra-
lian dingo, but the baboon has far too much
nous to be trapped in-this way. The most
efficacious method of dealing with the raiders
has been a general drive, shooting the baboons
as they are rounded up. But once they get
into tlie rocky kloofs which are their homes
they are safe, a fact of which they are
thoroughly aware.
* * * *
“Second Course”: “C. Coral’s” par. (B,
l/6/’32). quoting instances of camouflage in
gastronomic nomenclature recalls a North
Coast (N.S.W.) pub. the dining-room of
which was presided over by an abrupt young
woman from Cornwall. Her formula gener-
ally was, “Wot’ll ee ave ter foller? Corn
beef or goots?” Hungry newcomers, if in-
curious or unwilling to show ignorance,
usually selected “corn’ beef." To those who
in a spirit of adventure chose “goots’ the
lady brought stewed tripe.
* * * *
“Mulyan” : Never seen now, except in the
Far North, is the firetrap that Binghi some-
times employed on the eve of a eorroboree,
when a great quantity of meat was required.
A large area of tangled grass and shrubs that
sheltered numerous birds and animals and
reptiles was surrounded by a mob of armed
hunters. At a signal the grass was lighted
simultaneously in a hundred places, form-
ing a wide ring of fire. As the flames closed
on all sides the game was driven towards
the centre and trapped, the. ground being
sometimes thickly strewn with blackened
bodies. Half-blinded victims trying to escape
through the flames were knocked over with
waddies and boomerangs. The bags included
kangaroos and emus, which were easily
trapped when found in a suitable place. But
a large number of hunters was required
to form ihe ring quickly and prevent the
lire getting away behind. Binghi didn’t
want to make a black ruin of his hunting-
grounds.
THE SCEPTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They’re always seein’ fearsome beasts about
the bush,” said Blue,
“The sort o’ things that never was in sea or
land or Zoo.
They got one in the Malice now careering
round, I see;
An outsize wolf, some think, escaped from
some meenageree;
An’ others say an animal that might have
stepped straight out
Of that Lost World old Conan Doyle made
up a yarn about.
“These strange beast scares,” continued Blue,
as in the fire he spat,
“Come sort o’ periodical, there ain’t a doubt
o’ that.
That Tantanoola Tiger, now, voracious,
slinkin’, grim,
You’d hardly credit all the fuss the papers
made of him.
*Twas five-and-thirty years ago he had his
little day,
But wot he was and where he went there’s
no one yet can say.
“The cockies met and vowed his doom. They
armed them to the teeth.
They sought his lair for weary weeks in
woodland, scrub and heath.
Scores upon scores of startled eyes had
glimpsed him here and there,
And yet in all the hunts they had they
found nor hide nor hair.
The phantom beast had faded out and left
no trace,” said Blue.
“Now there’s another sloshin’ round. They
come like comets do.
“To see a mort o’ funny things,” said Blue,
“a chap is prone
In lonely spots an’ fadin’ light an’ when
he’s on his own.
An’ if the whisky’s rotgut stuff and raw from
private stills.
No tillin’ what you mightn’t spot a-moochm
round the hills.
I’ve seen, or could have sworn I did, some-
time, somewhere, somehow,
Rats big as Wells’s Boomfood breed, I’ll can-
didly allow.
But that was in me flamin’ youth —/ take
more water now.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SELLERS OF
New Zealand Notes, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency,
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY ’Phone 85417.
!i
niiji
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated ~
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 71 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and, Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
'AYI
COMPOUND ESSENCEi
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
SMOKE-OH!
“Light on the real American attitude towards
British debts is thrown in a special article.”— “Age.”
A spot-cash light?
* *
“The procession took two hours to pass a given
spot.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Some processionists we know never pass
given spots.
* *
“Wireless is rapidly taking the place of the
daily newspaper.”
It may be so, but we haven’t noticed any-
body in the Domain going to sleep under a
wireless set.
“The brunette type is becoming more and more
fashionable.”
This news will cause many a girl to
change color.
•¥*
WHY WE LOSE.
Tipster (to punters) : “Fleetwind reads
like a cert, to-day. Go for a good win.”
Owner (to friends) : “My trainer tells me
he has a show. Anyhow, I’m backing him.”
Trainer (to jockey) : “You’re a ‘goer,’
Tich, and keep off the fence coming to the
turn.”
Jockey (to himself) : “Hope the reins are
strong enough !” p 0 M c
EXPLANATION.
“Yesterday was the coldest day Katoomba has
had for 10 years, the mixirmim reading being 36
degrees, with the sun shining.”— Melb. “Herald.”
This miximum reading provokes no surprise
In persons of my way of thinking;
It doubtless was due to defects in the eyes
Created by mixing the drinking.
N.
“Australia has some lightning workmen.”
• —Overseas visitor.
A fact. Some of them have been known
to strike twice in the same place.
V *
“Parkhill Tastes Goat Meat.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
And now the Scullinites are accusing him
of cannibalism.
TIT FOR TAT.
Lang failed to pay his interest;
He let it all go hang;
And now the Mother State has lost
All interest in Lang.
J. C.
THE BEST FRIEND PROBLEM.
“Your Honor, this is another case in which a
man’s best friend has caused that man to lose
his wife.”- —Divorce report.
Something should be done to stop it. A
solution might be for every husband to
arrange not to have a best
friend, but to start his mat-
rimonial career with a next-
best friend. Alternatively,
he might forbid his best
friend the home. The diffi-
culty is that a minor friend
who was given a free run
of the home might develop
into a best friend. One has
seen this situation develop
in another aspect. (Cf.,
Lord Justice Whoop on
“Lodgers.”) A dose of
poison dropped into the
best friend’s whisky might
check developments at the
outset, but the normal hus-
band hates to be drastic.
Still, there the problem is,
and it must be solved. The
exposure of a best friend’s
treachery means divorce,
and marriage with the
faithless wife, and what hus-
band with any claim to the
title of Man wants to
bring a lifetime of trouble
on his best friend?
H. M.
* *
It is when the mercury
falls and wives begin to
cast longing eyes on the
genuine Russian sable
coats in the windows that
husbands begin to realise
that the rabbit is un-
doubtedly Australia’s worst
pest.
V *
“It is reported that a newly-invented aeroplane
can rise from the back yard and land on the roof."
— “Argus.”
Whereas formerly they landed on the roof
and crashed into the back yard.
* *
DEPARTED GLORY.
“Many members of the British nobility have sold
their jewels and are wearing replicas."
Since taxes have carved from each income a
slice,
Economies grim must be faced.
And most of the gems which were ohee
beyond price
Have now become things of the paste.
“I’m going to marry a man with a title.”
“Yes? Heavyweight or lightweight?”
HER DISABILITY.
Here's why, if you're anxious to know,
I dropped you for Mabel, old thing:
You’ve too many strings to the your bow —
Viz., too many beaus on the string.
T.N.
KINDNESS TO FEET.
“Hikers will find that their feet will amply repay
any kindness and attention.” —Matron de Merrall in
“Sun.”
I was standing watching some hikers
One beautiful winter’s day:
They seemed to be waiting for something
Beside the permanent way.
Then the 10 a.m. from the city
Stopped close to the little band,
And I heard their leader speak these words
With gravely uplifted hand:
“Always be kind to your feet, friends,
They're the only ones you’ve got.
Don’t let your feet go cold on you,
And don’t let them get too hot.
Be careful not to tire your feet.
Seek always a lift to get,
And don’t let anyone tread on them,
And try not to get them wet.”
The hikers greeted their leader’s words
With a hearty hikers’ cheer;
And, as more advice was plainly due,
I decided to wait and hear.
The train was still in the station,
But the leader’s counsel soared
Above the grunts of the engine,
And the cries of “All aboard!”
“Always be kind to your feet, friends.
Be sure to wear boots that fit.
And neper wear out their soles, friends,
If you can get out of it.
“What are you doing these days?”
“I’m selling furniture.”
“Selling much?”
“Only my own, so far.”
Here, as a case in point's, a train.
Why hike, when a chance to ride
Presents itself? Let us climb aboard
And be kind to our feet inside.”
So they hiked aboard and settled down,
Each choosing a pleasant seat,
With the kind of cushion Opposite
That is soothing to.hikers’ feet;
And they went on being kind to their feet
In the train till the set of sun ;
And that, I often think, is the way
That a lot of hiking’s done.
D.
THE PRINTED WORD.
Am I a star, or ain’t I?” yelped Madame
Gastritis.. “Why in the name of Blooms-
bury can’t I get a line of real publicity in
these Melbourne rags?”
“Now Gas, old dear,” soothed her pub-
licity manager, “you had
interviews in the papers
when you, blew in. Each
day there hag been a
splurge about your visit to
the Bonnie Babies’ Homes,
the Reduced Ladies’ Re-
fuge, the Little Ones Play-
ing Centres, Our Dumb
Friends’ Sanctuary and the
like. Your alleged views
on hop-scotch, agnosticism,
polar co-ordinates, phlebo-
tomy, companionless mar-
riage, the efficacy of prayer,
hiking, Anarchism, tatting
and prison-reform have
been ventilated. Your dog’s
been stolen, your car’s been
in a collision”-
“I know, I know, but I
want a real interview —
something I’ve said my-
self. Something about my
Art”-——
“Righto,” sighed the pub-
licity manager, “uncork it.”
“I want to say that I
love Australia and you dear
Australians. This bright,
sunshiny land of yours gets
the very heart of me. I am
amazed at your beautiful,
cultured city (the dam
graveyard!), and the as-
tounding progress you have
made in your brief 90
years (or whatever it is).
But I have little time to
see you in your homes, to
meet you intimately, as I
long to do, for my Art ever
calls. My Art governs my
life and she is a hard task-mistress.”
What He Wrote.
Madame Gastritis, the distinguished artist,
who is such a sensational success at the
Paragum Theatre, was charming to our
representative this morning when he sought
her impressions of Melbourne. The intel-
lectual face lit up with a wistful smile. The
vibrant voice which has thrilled millions,
and which can on occasion ring clamantly,
was modulated to a melodious murmur. “How
can my poor views appeal to your readers?”
she. asked modestly. “Simplicity and sin-
cerity are the keynote of dramatic artistry,
1 think. Art is the austerity of joy. The
divine afflatus cannot bo commanded. True
dramatic genius is a rare and beautiful
exotic in the realms of Art. I remember
Strimbleliorn-Goop, the eminent English
critic, telling me in London last vear that
watching me, hearing me, was like reading
Shakspeare by flashes of lightning. But
then” —and she blushed.
What “The Sttfler” Printed.
Madame Gastritis is still appearing at the
Paragum Theatre. There will be, a change
of bill on Saturday.
NORBELL.
MAKING SPORT PAY.
“Hello, everybody. We are about to broad-
cast the England-Australia football Test
from the Sydney Cricket Ground, the rent
of which is very reasonable. Write to the
secretary for terms. The ground is in
great condition, thanks to the work of
Bloggs and Co. Let them give you a quote
for reconditioning your tennis-court.
“The ground is packed with spectators at
four Dob a head, but the red uniforms of
Pumblecliook’s peanut vendors stand out
“And, Fader, I told der man to put rubber heels on your
pools.”
“Vell, I don't vant 'em. Dey gif too much."
prominently. They’re doing great business
at threepence a bag.
“Here come the teams. What a picture
they make ! Which reminds me that you’ll
be able to see a movie of the game to-night
at the Stucco Theatre. The Englishmen
look well in their Bullswool guernseys, made
by Muggins and Co. for 15s. 6d. each, uur
boys are wearing outfits kindly donated by
the ■ Goat Island Knitting Co.
“England wins the toss. Sullivan is about
to kick off with one of his Topnotch boots,
retailed at 30s. a pair....
“The Englishmen arc showing great speed !
What a tribute to McGurgle’s Vitality Nuts !
But they’re not having it all their own way.
Bizzle’s Stamina biscuits,
which our boys train on,
are playing their part....
Oh, well tackled !... .
Thought his pants had
gone, but no—Bumble pro-
ducts are guaranteed not to
rip, tear' or bust.
"Half-time, and the score
five all. What a great
light it will be for the big
Mohair underclothing ad.
contract that’s hanging to
the game ! Both sides are
off to the pavilion for a
glass of Whosit’s lager.
Maybe I’ll try a couple my-
self. .. .
“Hullo, folks ! Here they
are out again, right oil
time. The referee’s got a
genuine Tick Tock jewelled
wristlet. And it only cost
him three quid....
“Willing work in the
scrums, people. Ah, man
hurt. Here come the am-
bulance men. Don’t forget
their street collection on
Monday. Now they’re put-
ting on some Stickit plaster
and Aunt Annie’s ointment.
But the player must be
badly hurt. Here comes the
ambulance —one of the best
jobs the Buckboard Motor
Company ever turned
0ut....
“One minute to go.
Everyone is crazy with ex-
citement, but a'couple of
Sizzler’s Sedative powders
will restore their jangled
nerves later. It’s over!
What a wonderful collection of Jumbuck
hats are being thrown up ! The better side,
by eight points to five, has won the Mohair
underwear ad. contract and game. Good-
byee all.”
A. O’C.


5.x.4*.. •> «
mmrnmmmm
:
&gai£B3
Lp^ia
• ** k I*l
1 uSi
■
:-
XI
I ifr.*
■WI
H
: :•; •
.'■■■■ ■:
SH
BiStll
raw
l
■
' '•• -
, £££
Unseen %ictois
make lilal dijjfnetues
17R0M the ground all aeroplanes look much alike. And yet
the Schneider Cup was won with a speed of 408 rn.p.h.-
more than double the speed of the average plane. The engines
that make the vital difference are unseen.
And so with a radio set.
"trEALING radio is different, because of the care that is taken in perfecting these
hidden details because it is so conscientiously, so perfectly , constructed. That
is why its tone, its range, its selectivity are so far beyond ordinary comparison.
One can only judge Healing radio by actual performance. Hear it —at once
at your dealers.
Prices from £lB-18-0 to £5O-10-0
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
A. G. HEALING LTD.
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin St., C.l.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pulteuey Sts.
SYDNEY: 164-170 Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
Healings Pty. Ltd.,
101 Elizabeth St., C.l*
HOBART & LAUNCESTON
Medhurst & Sons
Jt*ty. Ltd.
Retail Distributors
PERTH:
Bay’s Transport Ltd.,
917 Hay St.
SYDNEY:
Rowe Street Radio
81 Rowe Street
Queensland Dealers write to
J. HOSE, c/o T. W. MOSS &
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane
CO.
BAD BACKACHE
——When will you learn the Truth?
Those agonising twinges, awful pains in the
back, swollen joints, twitching, aching muscles,
depression, irritability—you must realise that
these are symptoms of dangerous
KIDNEY TROUBLE
—End That Danger
Whilst You Can
There are thousands of once healthy, happy men and
women rapidly approaching the brink of breakdown,
nervous exhaustion, a dangerous state of heart-weakness,
just because they neglect the early signs of kidney trouble—
the cause of backache, rheumatism, swollen joints, etc.
Rheumatism, crippling the body, making every effort to
move, work or even think a torture, is telling you of some-
thing wrong within the blood. You might just as well
polish the outside of a motor car with a broken-down engine
in the hope of making it carry on, as to apply preparations to
the outside of the body when the cause of all your pain, your
rheumatism, backache and weakness is in your blood.
Why this remedy must end your trouble
Your body is one vast and marvellous machine, taking from the food you eat and
the air you breathe elements to build health and strength from which there must be
certain waste. When this waste contains poisons (such as uric acid in excess),
harmful bacteria, etc., get into the blood and are not passed out by the kidneys—it is
then your health breaks down and all your nerve-destroying body pain begins.
That is why the only possible remedy for rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, back-
ache or swollen joints must act directly on the kidneys, and we state clearly and
definitely that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are guaranteed
to do this. It is you alone who can take the first real action by getting a supply of
this famous 40-year-old, tried and trusted remedy from your chemist.
The very young, the weakest, women at all times, the oldest, can take De Witt’s
Pills with confidence. They contain no dangerous heart-exciting drugs, but are a
scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose. In twenty-four
hours you see how good they are.
m
M
m
wm
.
m
wm
■mm
mm
w>m
. ;
Si
sm
.
BSB
mm
m
m
r^r.
Read just one of many thankful letters
Mr G Jensen Rye Post Office, Victoria, writes For many years I have
suffered excruciating agony through Backache. Lumbago and Sciatica.
The bain became so bad that for three months I had to have morphia
injections, 1 also underwent treatment in hospital and tried several
remedies, which only gave very little relief. I read of your pills and tried
them, finding definite improvement after only five or six doses. I persevered,
and am now in good health."
To those who suffer from kidney trouble in any form we honestly say there is no
remedy to equal De Witt’s Pills. Thousands of one-time
martyrs the world over, in gratitude for freedom fiom
pain and suffering tell us so. That is why, with perfect
confidence* we ask you to test this remedy. Get a
3/6 supply to-day. The larger, more economical
size, costs but 6/6. These pills are never sold
loose Go to your chemist to-day before it
is too late. Let De Witt’s Pills make you
pain-free, healthy and happy.
DeWitt’s
Kidney
and
Bladder
s
£3*
H'
iiliii
m
it 1
Ji


1
MORE
reason
m
m
i
m
m
3fc
o
Pis
i
3r<s
1
ORE
or
/
or
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150. Also
'sos Round Air-tight Tins.
DEMEMBER —as you put down your 1/6 on the
X tobacconist’s counter —that it will buy 21
Country Life’s instead of the usual 20 cigarettes.
Reckoned in terms of weeks and months that
means big savings to Country Life smokers. And
you get better cigarettes—better tobacco, better
made and better packed.
Country Life
better CIGARETTES
34fcO -B-S’l


I
sr
W
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary-
long, and hard, and gruelling—they choose
DIAMONDS.
It is Diamonds’ length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place m tie
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
pOR the same reasons many
r Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio set manufacturers, and the
Saw, choose Diamonds.
C | C N1
es»<
6MF Ws
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SUB. CLOVER IN N. S. WALES.
“Trifolium”: It has been demonstrated
this year that there is nothing better than
sub. clover for autumn pasture on parts of
the south-western slopes in N. S. Wales. The
clover has been an outstanding success on
several properties, coming soon after the
February or March rains, and, as past ex-
perience has shown, providing excellent feed
until October or November. Even then its
usefulness is not exhausted, as the dead
clover is keenly relished by stock.
Sub. produces a good bulk of winter feed
when native pastures are showing least
growth ; it has also controlled the growth of
barley grass, thistles and other undesirable
plants. In the colder tablelands districts
growth is frequently delayed until early
spring, but this is not the case with the
south-western slopes, where the clover was
Gin. to 9in. high at the end of April.
Graham Brothers have had great success
with sub. clover on their two properties
south of Colac. At Riverview, 10 miles from
Colac, in the Walbrook Creek valley, 50
acres in a 60-acre paddock were sown with
1-1 bushels of oats, 1-bag of super., and 41b.
of clover per acre in April, 1929. There was
a fair crop of oats, but not much clover
was seen during the first year. In spite of
this, the paddock carried 200 to 800 sheep
through the winter and spring, after which
the stock were removed to allow the clover
to seed. There was a very good germination
in March, 1931, and for the year ended
December 31, 1931, the paddock carried four
sheep to the acre. In August, 540 hogget-
culls were put into this paddock, and re-
mained there until the water gave out in
December, when they were bigger sheep and
in better condition than the mobs from
which they had been culled, and which had
been grazing on native pasture. The; pad-
dock is now a dense mass of clover, Gin. to
9in. high. . . ■■ ,
In this rich valley there are isolated
patches of almost pure sand which grow only
bracken and weeds. In the autumn of 1929,
20 acres in an 80-acre paddock of thick
bracken were ploughed and sown with l- 2
bushels of oats, -J-bag of super., and 4ib. of
sub. clover per acre. The oats grew to a
height of only Gin., went yellow and. died,
while very little clover was seen until the
following autumn. It continued to thicken
in 1931, and at present almost covers the
area with a growth up to 9in. The clover
is thriving best where it is protected from
grazing stock by the thistles and bracken.
Although it is always preferable to sow a
prepared seed-bed, sub. clover is one of the
very few pasture plants Avhicli can be estab-
lished without cultivation by broadcasting
the seed with super. While this is very muon
cheaper, the clover takes three or four years
to become established.
FAT LAMBS FOR BRITAIN.
“Thorley” • An enterprise of the Wimmera
and Mai lee Fat Lamb Association has pretty
well settled the controversy as to what Smith-
field prefers. It sent eight consignments of
100 lambs each to London, and m the
result lambs from Longerenong filled first,
second and third positions. They were by
Shrop. rams out of first-cross P; wes.
These college lots averaged 40.51 b., 44.741 b.
and 36.111 b.; prices were 5d., 4fd. and 5- 4 -d.
per pound; net returns, including exchange,
were £66 17s. 4d., £66 14s. 7d. and £62 2s.
lOd. for each lot.
As for private consignments, lambs by
Oorriedales from Polwarths received a favor-
able verdict on the whole, but some were
voted too heavy—one weighed 021b. .the
average being just over 381 b. They realised
5d.; £5B 15s. 2d. net. _ Border .Leicester-
comeback lambs averaging just on 401 b.
brought 4|d.; £5B Os. 3d. A similar con-
signment averaged 391 b. at the same price;
£55 4s. 10d. Lambs by Suffolk-Slirop. rams
from first-cross Lincoln-merino ewes aver-
aged almost 39Jlb. at 41d.; £55 16s. Sd. The
judgment on these was that they were a
nice type but too heavy; they could have
been dealt with some weeks earlier, when
weights would have been more suitable and
the bloom of the mild lamb more pronounced.
Lincoln-comebaek lambs were also “nice, but
too heavy”; they went 381 b. and averaged
4fd.; £54 10s. 7d. , - ~ .
Values of skins varied: the Corncdalc-
Polwarth, brought £l3 10s.; Shrop.-first-
cross, £l2 45., £lO Us. 2d. and £10;
Suffolk-Slirop.-Lipcol 11-merino, £l2 • >s- od.;
Lincoln-comebaek, £ll 155.; Border Leices-
ter-comeback, £lO 7s. Id. and £9 ss. 3d.
These amounts were included in the l .
returns already given. Placing the lam >
cost 10s. 2d. a liead: rail freight and
killing, 3s. 3d.; insurance and commission,
Bd.; shipping freight, 4s. 10d.; ship to
market, Is. sd. . . ...
Smithfield is definite in its preference toi
Down crosses and prejudiced. against any-
thing showing the merino strain. Dloom is
looked for; if the lambs are got oft early
they have this bloom and are at a weignt
(say, 341 b. to 301 b.) which suits the trade better.
RINGING AND SUCKERING.
“Sativa”: I have hundreds of acres of
white-box country that was ringbarked years
ago and never suckered. Because of the
neglect to sucker it will now cost me almost
tlie value of the land to clear it. Bing-
ing and suckering in ordinary white-box
country is not expensive, provided the nng-
barkin’g is done in summer and the sucker-
ing in winter 18 months later. It pays to
ring as high as possible, as the suckering
is easier and the tree dies more readily than
when it suckers close to the ground.
In some parts of N.S.W. —on the Goona-
barabran line, for instance — ring
the box and ironbark near the ground, and
by- Stocking, heavily with merino wethers
keep the suckers eaten down until the tree
dies. I- do not. hold with this practice, tor
to do the work thoroughly it is necessary
to keep the sheep on a semi-starvation diet.
After all, 9,d. per acre will do the nob,
and that amount or more per sheep is soon
lost if they are not well cared for. As all
suckers grow out from a -small bulb or
button it is advisable to prize these knobs
out when knocking the suckers off.
Eighteen months ago I let a contract to
ringbark a green timber paddock o f WO
acres for 190. The suckering this _ wintei
is costing £2O; the carrying capacity has
increased from 200 to 600 sheep. In some
country the timber is a forest of old trees
with an undergrowth of young ones. 1
find that if these old trees are dealt with
first and the youngsters are left untouched,
they promptly kill out the big trees and re-
spond in an " uprush of growth; this in its
turn is fatal if ringbarked two years later.
There is nothing more costly than cutting
off young stuff with the axe. It pays better
to mattock it out or let it grow to a suit-
able size for ringbarking. When ringing it
is necessary to meet the axe-cuts m the
sapwood whether frilling or barking, but
small timber should be very lightly rung.
Otherwise: the first windstorm blow's it down
and ensures a profuse suckering from the
stump and it takes many suekerings _to
kill it. The same results follow ringbarking
when the axe cuts right through the sap-
wood All serviceable timber should be
preserved and good shady camps, handy to
water, left for stock.
Provided rabbits are kept out, it is a
valuable pasture improvement to broadcast
suitable grass seed beneath the newly-ring-
barked trees. I find a mixture of 21b.
lucerne, 61b. Wimmera rye and 21b. prairie
grass gives good results in white-box coun-
try, which usually has a good, rich rod clay
subsoil.
RABBITS IN MILLIONS.
Adelaide Uni. is interested in a vegetation
reserve to the north of Yunta, which is
200 miles or so north of Adelaide. The
reserve, about 1200 acres in extent, is en-
closed by rabbit-proof fencing, but visiting
it a few T weeks ago two Uni. lecturers found
that rabbits had 1 got in and done sad damage
to trees, shrubs and plants—sandalw'ood.
mulga, birdseye, bluebush, cassia and spear-
grass—even in small areas which had been
specially fenced. They showed a special
fondness for speargrass, but saltbush they
left severely alone. Says J. E. Wood, lec-
turer in botany, “Before our arrival the
verandahs of the laboratory w'ere knee-deep
in rabbits which had died there, attracted by
the shade and the water in the tanks. The
base of the water-tanks is polislied by the
teeth of the rabbits., and in one place the
galvanised iron had been bitten through and
was leaking badly.”
On neighboring stations the destruction
of rabbits' has been tremendous. On Koona-
more over 500,000 were killed, on Melton
about 200,000 and on Mount Victor 120,000
—all in the six months October-March.
“The rabbit problem,” says Mr. Wood,
“is one of national importance and will never
be controlled by methods now in force. The
Conservator of Forests in Westralia informs
me that he has located a quarter ot a million
acres with suitable host trees for sandal-
wood afforestation, but experiment has shown
that rabbits invariably kill 100 per cent, ot
germinated seedlings. He finds it imprac-
ticable to keep rabbits out of an area greater
than five acres, enclosed with rabbit-pioot
fencing, and that is possible only with a
man permanently in attendance.”
Mr. Wood suggests that the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research should be
approached “with a view to evolving biolo-
gical or '.some other method of control. He
believes that unless effective measures are
taken, mulga, sandalwood and other trees and
shrubs which constitute the out-back pas-
toralist’s fodder reserve are destined to
disappear—“within the next hundred years
not a tree will be found within the eight-
inch rainfall line.”
“Rab”: I have just finished routing
rabbits out of a 300-acre paddock at a cost
of Is. 4d. per acre. A hundred steel traps
were used, one to every hole in a warren,
and as each made a catch or was sprung it
was moved forward to another burrow.
When a warren was clean it was dug in
18in deep, all the mounds were levelled to
the hollows and the whole sown down with
a mixture of grass seeds, varying according
to the class of soil. The intensive cultiva-
tion which old rabbit warrens represent
makes excellent seedbeds. Under this system
tlie vermin were eradicated and an improved
pasture will result.
HORSE-BREEDING IN QUEENSLAND.
“Knockinnon”: “FY7” (B. 15/6/’32) is
right about the resurgent horse, but I don t
like that notion of a Government subsidy.
All that is necessary is to interest your
breeders and secure intelligent co-operation
among farmers in areas best suited for the
production of high-class draughts. V hat the
A.I.S. people have done with cattle can be
done with horses, and that association did
its work without .any props from. Govern-
ments or well-meant official meddling.
Here on the Darling Downs we are
climatically and topographically well
equipped to produce first-class draught
animals, and there are available a number
of female descendants of the old Clydesdale
stud, maintained for so many years at Mary-
vale by the Wienholts, and of other imported
horses, some from Victoria and Maoriland.
These mares should form the basis of a
Queensland stud-book.
But Queensland is moving with painful
slowness in this important matter, and along
lines more or less haphazard and unecono-
mic. The matter calls, first, for the estab-
lishment of a Queensland Draught-liorse
Breeders’ Association to take . the place of
the existing ineffectual organisation. Let
this association acquire the services of a
qualified inspector—paid for from member-
ship and registration fees —select foundation
stallions and mares for inclusion in a State
stud-book properly controlled and regulated,
and seek affiliation with the older organisa-
tions in! the South. By such a method many
valuable and typical animals could secure
stud-book registration, at present denied, and
many owners would be transformed from
indifferent to interested breeders. Farmers
with good mares would be attracted, and
the question is one of mares rather than
of stallions. Gather together the right type
of mares, register them, and get the proper
control ; the stallion problem . can be then
smoothed jut. in accordance with intelligent
ideas.
Under existing conditions a farmer may-
have, say, a typical Clydesdale mare or stal-
lion bred from first-class imported sires out
of approved dams, but cannot gain entrance
to the Commonwealth stud-book because he
has, merely through carelessness or indiffer-
ence, failed to keep accurate records of their
breeding. The A.I.S. people overcame similar
difficulties by starting their stud-book with
men who had the typical cow- and the typical
bull for the foundation of a herd, giving
them reasonable time to join up before clos-
ing the foundation registration. From their
membership and registration fees they raised
the money necessary to pay for a qualified
inspector, interested their people, controlled
and directed that interest. Progress, has
since been measured by leaps and bounds.
The writer, like many others, had no inten-
tion of joining the A.I.S. Association till
-approached by an inspector and informed
that some of his cows and bulls were true
to type and worthy of stud-book registration
as foundation entries. Any reason why the
draught-horse breeder shouldn’t have the
same facilities?
A WARNING FROM CANADA.
“Wodgil”: A timely warning about the
danger of over-producing cigar-leaf tobacco
comes from Canada. It is issued by the Joint
Advisory Tobacco Committee for Quebec, and
perhaps The Bulletin will permit me to
lift portions of it: —
“More cigar-leaf tobacco has been grown
in Quebec during the past two years than the
market has been able to absorb. As a result
there has been a large accumulation of
both binder and filler tobacco m the hands
of growers and packers -three million
pounds of fillers and half a million pounds ot
binders In addition, the domestic manufac-
turers have on hand stocks of leaf sufficient
for a two-year supply. In consequence
farm prices have fallen from 15 cents per
pound in 1929 to less than 5 cents in 1931.
The situation is made worse by the tact
that consumption of cigars in Canada is de-
creasing verv rapidly. Growers ot Canadian
cigar-leaf are almost entirely dependent on
Canadian cigar manufacturers for the sale
of their crops. The only remedy for tue
situation would appear to lie a drastic
reduction of the planted acreage to approxi-
mately one-half of- that planted in 1901.
“The market for Quebec cigar-leat is a
strictly limited one. During the past five
years the domestic manufacturers ‘ 1 <i \'
absorbed approximately two million pounds
a year in the manufacture of cigars. Although
the proportion of Canadian leaf used has
rapidly increased until in 1931 it amounted
to over 50 per cent, of the total, the actual
amount of leaf used did not increase at the
same rate. The consumption of all classes of
cigars decreased by nearly 15 per cent., chien.\
as a result of reduced purchasing power ot the
smoking public. At present there does not
appear to be any prospect of improvement m
this situation; in fact, a continued decrease
is probable. Efforts to develop an export
market in Britain have not met with any
great success, owing to competition from
other parts of the Empire. It is obvious,
then, that, with large surplus stocks, ex-
tremely low farm prices and a decreasing
market demand, a large reduction in produc-
tion is essential.
“There has been a tendency on the part ot
many growers to produce more tobacco than
they have proper equipment to handle. In
many instances the barn space has been
insufficient, resulting in overcrowding and
considerable leaf spoilage. In addition, the
large crops have frequently caused hasty,
poorly managed harvesting. These difficul-
ties may be overcome by growing only suffi-
cient tobacco to fill the available barn space. ’
Probably there is no danger of over-pro-
duction of cigar-leaf in Australia. But it
is to bo feared that too many of those who
have gone into the business these last two
or three years are concentrating on the
production of pipe tobacco, the demand for
which is local and limited, and too few are.
striving to turn out good cigarette tobacco,
which has an assured Australian market and
export possibilities. Anyway, the unfortu-
nate experience of our Canadian friends
should not be wasted on us.
CITRTJS-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
According to a careful estimate, no more
than 12 p.c. of last year’s Australian orange
cron was what America would call of export
quality; and it is alleged that, though not
a great quantity was exported to Canada
under the agreement made by larker
Moloney, part of the later shipments was so
inferior that the prospects of the trade have
been seriously damaged. Canada has become
accustomed to Californian citrus, which is
the best in the world, like the packing and
shipping organisation which handles it.
Hence the Canadian is much more difficult
to satisfy than the British buyer, whose sup-
plies come mostly from the Mediterranean
countries, including Spain. These sup-
plies have the skin imperfections which
are fairly common among coastal-grown Aus-
tralian oranges.
Onlv one Australian orange stands right
out for quality: that is the navel—gener-
ally known in America as the Australian
navel, though originally it probably came
from S. America. But unfortunately the
Australian grower has been far too much
disposed to regard a navel as a riavel, giving
little if any attention to stock. The Ameri-
can citrus-grower, on the other hand, is as
careful about his stock as the Australian
woolgrower is; and some Australian
orebardists are following the slieepgrower s
example, demanding pedigreed trees just as
the other demands, pedigreed rams. One result
is that, whereas the average of export-
quality standard was 12 p.c., a few orchards
certainly passed 60 and probably reached
70 p.c.
A W.A. APPLE-GROWER’S FEAT.
G. Simpson, an ofehardist, of KarraguHen,
Westralia, sent 16 cases of apples—four each
of Granny Smiths, Rokewoods, Dohertys and
Dunns—to the Imperial Fruit Show, Lon-
don, for competition in the classes open to
Australian growers. The Dunns landed
a second prize; with the others he captured
three firsts and the silver challenge cup. In
1931 he sent three entries. They brought him
a gold medal, a first, a second and the silver
challenge cup.
The apples were sent in .iarrah and she-oak
cases, the timber being cut by a spot mill in
the hills near the orchard and the cases care-
fullv polished.
The “Primary Producer” gives some inter-
esting information about this grower and his
(Continued on next page. )


fk '' iiSt
1 MT, ■
\'7 <sdP-
fHMurai
Made more
weatherproof
Two thicknesses of tough Aus-
tralian leather make the sole of
this Abbey Boot doubly strong.
The upper, of high-grade calf, is
both supple and long-wearing.
It is shaped on an exclusive last,
designed to accommodate the
instep arch without risk of tight-
ness. For close-fitting neatness,
comfort and durability this boot
is unsurpassed.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one
of the handy cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
FPL 288
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed" —— .think of
ś
SCHUTE,
BELL §i. Cua
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EOTHEN
yt 128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
k garage
[ncliuive Tariff, £4-4 -0
r Central 528
(PAYING GUESTS Mr*. PARKER
m
BUSINESS IS
BOOMING!
BE IN THE BOOM
Note the Perth
Progressive gross circulation figures
from February 7 to June 12, 1932:
February 7
„ 21
March 6 . .
„ 20 .
April 3 . . .
„ 17
May 1 ....
„ 15
„ 29
June 12
28,200
30,600
31.400
32,100
34.250
35,590
37.400
41.250
42.400
47,000
The “Sunday Times” is the most
widely-discussed paper in the West.
As an advertising medium for results
it stands alone. Why not try it?
mm
m m
->
V •
s
US
THE GENUINE WATERPROOF BLUEY
MINERS’ BLUEY (Guaranteed Waterproof).
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSTONE BROS. PTY., LTD.,
Derwent Woollen Mills, Hobart.
For Sale.
DUCKEYE INCUBATORS FOR SATE.
—lOOB-Egg Capacity and 6144-Egg Capa-
city. Weekly Settings. Both machines in
first-class order and guaranteed as good as
new. Kerosene heated. Circulating Hot
Water. Copper Pipes. Auto. Trays. End-
of-season prices for quick sale, these
machines. MANN & GAMBLE, LTD., 193
Valentine Street (near P.D.S.), Sydney.
c Ue Charm <f the
PACIFIC
INLANDS*
PuKfj, flgg
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE )
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga . . Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
69 William Street, Melbourne.
methods. He lias had his place since 1916.
It consists of 20 acres of typical Darling
Range country and lies in a depression
between jarrali-clad hills. On nine of the 20
acres he grows Rokewoods, and on an average
he takes oft from between (5000 and 7000
bushel-eases a year. A large percentage of
his fruit goes overseas. There is a fine home
on the side of the hill overlooking the orchard,
a well-equipped packing-shed and orderliness
everywhere. Mr. Simpson attributes his suc-
cess in great measure to the climate, which
he describes as “ideal”; but climate alone
doesn’t win silver challenge cups. The
“Producer” describes his orchard as a “model
of careful husbandry,” adding that “a chapter
could be written about Mr. Simpson’s
methods of pruning, which arc not what
might be called the standard methods fol-
lowed in Australia. His achievements, how-
ever, are the best indication that he is on
right lines.”
Darling Range country is not regarded as
good, except in patches. But it is vast, and
well watered, and healthy for man and
beast; and its valleys and hillsides are
obviously going to become one of the great
fruit-growing regions of the world.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is tuberculosis found in many cattle
in Tasmania? (2) Any particular part
where it is more prevalent than in other
parts? (3) Where does it attack cattle?
(4) Presuming an infected beast is killed
and the diseased part is removed, is it pos-
sible for any person to say it suffered from
tuberculosis? If so, how? (5) What is
lumpy jaw? (6) If a beast with lumpy jaw
is killed and the head removed, is it pos-
sible to say that it had lumpy jaw? If
so, how? —396.
(1) It is present, but to no greater ex-
tent than hi any other State. (2) No; but
naturally it occurs more particularly in old
dairies where the hygienic conditions are not
the best. Owing to testing, which has been
going on for a number of years, cases of
tuberculosis have been greatly reduced. It
is only occasionally found in animals in the
country. (3) Tuberculosis may attack
cattle in the lungs, internal organs, lymphatic
glands and liver. It is most commonly
found in the lymphatic glands. (4) No;
but the fact of the organs being removed
would convey to the mind of a meat in-
spector that such parts were removed
because there was some disease or other.
(5) A disease caused by a fungus picked up
from herbage. It has a special affinity for
attacking bones ; generally the bones of the
jaw are affected. A bony tumor forms; this
ultimately bursts and discharges pus and
the bone becomes honeycombed. Lumpy jaw
or actimonycosis also forms fibrous lumps,
sometimes containing abscesses, in the neck
regions. (6) If the head lias been removed
and there were no evidences of lumpy jaw
in the carcase, it would not be possible.
What to add to a paint mixture to pre-
vent a horse licking newly-painted fences?
—515.
Best thing is to keep the horses out of
the paddock until the paint lias dried. Lead
paints are liable to cause poisoning.
We have just put down a concrete floor in
the cliaffhouse. JVow we arc told cement is
a failure, for this purpose, as moisture will
keep working through and mould the chaff.
Is this truet —222.
A concrete floor, if properly constructed,
is quite satisfactory for preventing damp-
ness reaching the chaff or fodder. In the
majority of cases the mould referred to is
caused not by dampness percolating through
from underneath the floor, but by condensa-
tion such as occurs when chaff and other
material containing moisture are placed near
a cold surface. It this mould appears, the
remedy is to support stacks of chaff on, say,
3 x 2 timbers so as to allow a current of
air to circulate and thus prevent condensa
lion of the moisture in the chaff itself.
Hoiv to estimate the number of cubic yards
of gravel neecssary to cover a given portion
of road with given thickness of gravel? —432.
Divide the thickness in inches into 36.
The result will be the number of square yards
which can be covered by one cubic yard of
gravel. Thus if the thickness is one inch,
a cubic yard of gravel will cover 36 sq. yds.;
if 3in., 12 sq. yds.; 4in., 9 sq. yds.
lloio are the bounties paid on sugar and
butter? Are they paid by the Common-
wealth Government out of revenue, raised by
higher prices of sugar and butter sold, locally,
or both? —9955.
There are no bounties paid out of Com-
monwealth revenue in respect of butter.
There is a scheme, “the Paterson scheme,”
which has been brought into operation by
the industry itself; the dairymen voluntarily
pay into a fund l|d. per pound of butterfat
on all the cream supplied by them to fac-
tories and from that fund exporters receive
a bounty of 3d. per pound on all butter
exported. The effect is that the local price
of butter is increased above London parity
by the amount of the bounty, and the gain
to the dairy-farmer as a result of the scheme
has averaged about £2,000,000 per annum.
The bounty paid on sugar existed only for
the period from 1902 to 1913, and was part
of a plan which was adopted to enable sugar
producers to meet the altered conditions
arising from the compulsory employment of
white labor instead of Kanakas. With a view
to expediting the repatriation of the
Kanakas, an excise duty was imposed on all
raw sugar produced in Australia and a re-
bate (which was termed a bounty) of £1
per ton less than the excise duty was
granted in respect of all raw sugar wholly
produced by white labor. During the period
this rebate system was in operation
the Commonwealth Government collected
£6,500.000 in excise revenue and paid out
£3,900,000 in bounty. It has paid no bounty
nor made any other payments in regard to
sugar since the bounty was abolished from
July, 1913. For some years the domestic
price of sugar has been fixed by agreement
between the Commonwealth and Queensland
Governments.
There has been a discussion in the “S. M.
Herald ” on the use of seaweed as garden
manure. llow is it applied? —3l9.
Little has been done in this direction in
N. S. Wales, though one grower reports
success with asparagus; the crop was
planted over trenches filled with seaweed.
The Under-Secretary of the Dept, of Agri-
culture mentions interestingly that he saw
something of the use of seaweed in the
Channel Islands. In no case was it applied
direct to the soil and ploughed under. In
these islands, as is common in European coun-
tries, the cattle are housed and large quan-
tities of stable manure are available. This
manure is placed in composting pits and
allowed to remain for some time before cart-
ing to the field. The addition of seaweed
to this compost was favored, as the manure
brings about a quicker decomposition of the
weed. The ploughing under of seaweed
direct was considered particularly undesir-
able where early crops were concerned, as
it appeared to retard growth. The com-
monest use of the weed was to cart it direcr
and spread it lightly over the pastures. The
mulch caused a soft growth of the grass
and stock always concentrated on the areas
so treated. Apparently the salts from the
seawmed added to the palatability of the
pasture. Seaweed was also gathered into
heaps out of reach of the tide and allowed
to dry. Each heap was covered with a gal-
vanised or canvas cap to keep out rain.
When dry the weed was burnt and the ash
used as a fertiliser.
Is it possible to grow sweet potatoes from
cuttings off the old vine? If so, what is
the process of starting them? —318.
It is possible, but the practice is not
recommended, as trials have proved that
better yields are obtained by planting rooted
cuttings from tubers bedded in July or
August. The cuttings can be obtained from
the early-planted crop, or, in favored frost-
free districts, from the previous year’s vines.
What is dry rot of timber? Causes and
methods adopted to prevent it? —4BB.
Dry rot is a species of decay, for which
fungi are responsible; humid conditions, in-
sufficient drying and felling of trees- in the
spring are contributory causes. Preservative
methods include creosoting, burnettising
(treatment with zinc chloride) and kyanis-
ing (treatment with corrosive sublimate).
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Beady”: A valuable ewe of mine deve-
loped a swollen udder immediately after
lambing. She was yarded and given dry
lucerne liay for the first day and her udder
was bathed every three hours with hot water.
On the second day she was allowed freshly-
cut lucerne and the bathing was continued,
though very little water was given for drink-
ing. This procedure was continued. In four
days of this treatment her udder was back
to normal with the milk flowing freely. The
lambs (twins) were kept in the yard with
her and fed from an ordinary bottle and
mouthpiece until she was able to mother
them.
“Palmerston”; “Bushman’’ (B. 25/5/’32),
in addition to covering his exposed piping
with strips of hessian and a coat of tar.
should cover it with used motor-car tubes.
Cut the tubes, slit them lengthwise, bind
them round the hessian and no damp or
frost can get in. It may not be practicable
in a long length of exposed piping, but in
a short length it works admirably.
“Willeroo”: It you want to make a sheep-
skin mat, it is not necessary to tan it. A
quick way is to rub over the flesh side with
baking-soda, and leave it sprinkled with the
soda until it is thoroughly dry. Then give
it a good brushing and a rub with a rough
cloth, and it will always keep soft.
“Yarcoo”: To remove a quarter from a
horse’s hoof, tie a piece of wire or strong
fishing line round it with a slip knot; some-
times it is necessary to cut a small nick to
enable the wire to grip. Tie the other end
of the wire round a short stick. With a
steady pull the quarter will come clean
away, leaving no crack for a fresh one to
start.
“McNoon”: To prevent a cow sucking her-
self, take a piece of tough, dry hardwood,
about 15in, long, and trim it round, shap-
ing to a tapered point; the centre —the thick-
est part—should not be more than half an
inch in diameter. Exactly at centre, cut a
groove a third of an inch wide. Puncture
the animal’s nose as when putting in
a ring, and force one end of the wood
through until the front piece of nose-gristle
rests in the groove, where it will remain. The
cow has no chance of sucking herself then,
but the method does not prevent her lick-
ing herself.
“Dai R.”: If you have to sledge water,
get a thick-staved cask and sec it is free
from wood-eating insects. Give it three coats
of paint, fit a few strong extra hoops on it
and build a stout platform on the sledge.
Allowing the edges of the cask to rest only
on the sides of the isosceles causes the
bottom gradually to. bulge; the same applies
to swill-casks on pig or poultry farms. A
square of four stout bolts or pegs on the
platform will hold the cask in place.
“Gardener”: Turn over all your soil for
the frosts to sweeten, even if its only by
the hoe. Frosts aerate the soil, kill pests,
allow the needed rest and ensure good spring-
crops. Open up round the fruit trees and
shrubs and tip in all the waste matter
such as leaves and organic manure, cover-
ing with soil in the spring. Fallowing garden
beds is as essential as for farm cultivation.
“George leks”: What kind of a flock has
“Alcibiades” (B. 22/G/’32) got that lie has
to turn the yards into maternity wards and
wet-nurse his lambs? I have been among
sheep all my life and I regard his remarks
on mothering lambs as ridiculous. Taking
out a merino flock of 1000 ewes, with 89.5
per cent, of lambs at foot, I let four of
the blighters go when they broke away.
Next morning I secured and raddled them
and took them to their own paddock; the
man in charge had quietly gathered up the
flock. In half an hour three of the four had
mothered. The chap with the Greek name
has a lot to learn about sheep manage-
ment.
“Searchlight”: A farmer at Chester Hill,
near Sydney, has mastered the art of
lettuce-growing. His lettuces heart up won-
derfully and are of immense size, often
weighing up to 341 b. They are of prime
quality and are eagerly bought up at far
above market price. A lot of his brother-
farmers would like to know how he gets
them so big and prime. Unlike most growers
he is not a demon for water.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The . service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one. subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Electrical engineer (21), N.S.W., Uni. graduate,
1932, wants position, go anywhere.- —625.
Work wanted as handyman, private home, station
or hotel, exp., clean and sober. —024.
Shearers’ cook, Vic., disengaged, good refs. —G 67.
To buy parjs 1 and 2, “Modern Advertising,”
Pitman’s.—669.
Married stockman and boundary rider, N.S.W.,
exp. cattle and sheep, can milk and kill, wants job
Q’land or N.S.W. Refs.—693.
Grower to send small quantity bluebush seeds.
—684.
Words of verse containing the line “No grief so
great but cometh to an end.” —691.
To buy “The Law of Averages,” by Richard
Anthony Proctor. —682.
To buy copies of the Koran and the Iliad, in
English.—6l7.
To buy copy of “Australian Nursery Rhymes,”
published by The Bulletin. —644.
Lines by Marlowe, in which are included: “My
men, like satyrs grazing on the lawns, Shall with
their goat-feet dance the antic hay.”—63s.
Geologist would like to hear from persons know-
ing of deposits of cinnabar. —611.
Information Sought.
What unemployment taxes on salaries and
wages are levied by the State Governments.
—526.
N.S.W., Is. per £1 on £2 per week and over;
Vic., Id. on £1 per week to £1 2d. on £1
10s., Bd. on £2, Is, on £2 Itis. to £o, Is. Bd.
on £4, and so on at the rat© of Id. for each
4s. or fractional part; Q’land, Id. on each
tjs. Bd. up to £2 per week, 6d. per £1 after
that; Tas., 4d. per £1 over £1 per week.
S. Aus. and Westralia do not levy separate
unemployment taxes, getting the money re-
quired through their income taxes.
(1) When painters are required by the
R.A.N., what general qualifications must
candidates possess? (2) What must they
be able to show at trade tests? (3) Educa-
tional qualifications? —503.
(1) Candidates must be able-bodied, of
good character, and efficient workmen, and
must produce indentures showing an
apprenticeship of at least five years, or
written evidence of five years’ practical ex-
perience as painters. (2) Competency m
plain painting work, mixing colors, writing
and printing with brush and paint, oak- and
marble-graining, gilding and repairing work,
cutting plate- and sheet-glass with a dia-
mond; knowledge of the preparation of the
surfaces of wood and steel to receive paints
and enamels. (3) Vulgar and decimal frac-
tions, weights and measures, dictation,
reading.
(1) lloiv is the perforation of a stamp
determined? (2) What is meant by the fol-
lowing terms: (a) “ Perforated 11,” (b)
“ perforated 12” f (3) “Perf. 11 x 12’ ?
(4)’“Line perf. and comb perf.”? —s39.
(1) By a perforation gauge, obtainable tor
a few pence from any stamp dealer. (2)
(а) That there are 11 perforations or holes
on a length of 2 centimetres (4-sth inch) ;
(б) that there are 12 perforations on the
same length. (3) The stamp is perf. 11
along the top and bottom and perf. 12 along
the two sides. (4) In the early days
stamps were perforated by a single-line
machine and each sheet had to be perforated
crosswise and then lengthwise in two opera-
tions. In the more recent comb machines
the teeth of the machine resemble a large
comb, the distance between the teeth being
equal to the width of each stamp. With these
machines three sides of each stamp _ on a
single row are perforated at the one time.
(1) Any special provisions in the N.S.W.
Crimes Act for lenient treatment of persons
convicted of comparatively unimportant
offences, and not convicted before? (2)
Are female first-offenders tried in N.S.W.
in private, and can newspaper reports of
such trials be prohibited? —s63.
(1) Yes. Execution of sentence may be
suspended on an offender entering into recog-
nisance to be of good behavior for a period
of not less than 12 months. Such persons
are required to undergo an examination to
facilitate future indentification and to re-
port periodically to the police. (2) Yes,
unless the defendant elects to be heard in
open court. This law docs not apply to
cases of larceny in retail shops.
What land' tax is levied in South Aus-
tralia ?, —567.
Three farthings in the £ on total un-
improved value, and three farthings in the
£ on total unimproved value where it
exceeds £5OOO, with 20 p.c. more if owner
has been absent from the Common-
wealth for 12 consecutive months prior to
November 14; and with a super tax in all
three cases of 25 p.c.
Who introduced the modern system of
punctuation?— sss.
The Venetian printer Manutius, in the
latter part of the fifteenth century.
Arc any late statistics available as to the
difference in the purchasing power of a
pound in each of our capital cities? —2l3.
Yes; for the first quarter of this year as
regards food, groceries and housing. The
amount necessary to purchase what would
have cost, on the average, £1 during the
five-yearly period 1923-27 was: 17s. Sd. in
Sydney, i6s. in Melbourne, 14s. sd. in Bris-
bane, 15s. Id. in Adelaide, 16s. 6d. in Perth
and 16s. 7d. in Hobart. Weighted average,
six capitals, 16s. 6d.
A newspaper report described how miners
sinking a shaft at Gobargo ( N.S.W.) found
a large frog in a crcvicc 30 ft. below the
surface. What would account for the frog s
presence there, and how 'would it live during
period of confinement ? —344.
The frog must have been washed down,
later becoming imprisoned. This might have
happened when it was very young, or, if the
crevice was large enough, after it was adult.
In such instances frogs can live for several
years in a torpid condition, provided mois-
ture and air can reach them.
(1) Length of the Suez Canal? (2) When
was it opened? (3) Depth? (4) Any lochs
or tidal ranges? (5) Length of the Panama
Canal? (6) Maximum height above sea
level? (7) Average depth?— ss4.
(1) Total length is 99.86 miles, of which
90.08 miles are in straight reaches. (2) 1869.
(3) It has been progressively deepened so
that the maximum authorised draught for
ships in the canal has been as follows:
From 1870 to 1890, 24.58 ft.; 1890-1902,
25.58 ft.; 1902-06, 26.25 ft.; 1906-08, 27ft ;
1908-14, 28ft.; 1914-15, 29ft.; 1915-19,
30ft.; In 1922 the canal was deepened to
39.33 ft. (4) There are no locks, the canal
being level throughout. At the Suez
entrance there is a tidal range, amounting to
about 6ft. in the average at springs. The
current flow does not exceed 34ft. per second.
(5) 50.5 miles, but the portion with land
area between coast lines is only 414 miles.
(6) 85ft. (7) Between 40ft. to 45ft.
(1) What is wired wireless? lts
applications and advantages? (3) Types
of wire used? —545.
(1) Wired wireless or carrier-current
telephony is a system wherein wireless
waves are guided by wires between a trans-
mitter and receiver rather than being allowed
to radiate through free space. (2) By the
proper selection of carrier frequencies, so
that there is no interference between their
harmonics, it is possible to use a single
set of wires for carrying different messages
at the one time, each message using one of
the frequency channels. The system may be
utilised for carrying radio programmes as
well as telephonic and telegraphic communi-
cation. (3) Power lines, lighting circuits,
tram wires and other electric circuits may
all be used.
1 occupy a vxtr-service home in Queens-
land. In view of the slump do you
think that there is any prospect of (a)
reduction in capital, value of such homes,
(b) reduction in interest charges, and (c)
extension of time to pay?—^~ 4ol.
A committee is now visiting all the States,
making general inquiries and taking evid-
ence in connection with these matters. It
is anticipated that its report to the Govern-
ment will be ready early in August. The
committee visited Brisbane in May last. With-
out doubt concessions will have to be made;
what form they will take remains to be seen.
I wish to run a motor-launch, with pas-
sengers, from a Queensland coastal town to
an island about ten miles out. What quali-
fications are necessary for boat and owner?
—440.
First, apply to harbor master at the
nearest port for a survey of the vessel for
the purpose of obtaining a harbor and short
coasting certificate. Applicant will be ad-
vised of the fee payable and the require-
ments, as regards equipment, etc., of the
State navigation laws. The person taking
charge of the vessel will need to hold or
obtain a certificate as master of a limited
coasting passenger vessel (or a certificate of
higher grade). If necessary, the harbor
master will arrange to examine tlm owner
of the launch for certificate. Fee for this
certificate is £1 10s.; principal qualifications
required are sea-going experience, know-
ledge of the locality in which it is desired
to ply, character and sobriety.
How to raise Christ mas-bush shrubs from
seed? When to plant, soil to use, and any
helpful hints? —-549.
Get soil from land where the bush has
grown, place it in a box or in a dug-out bed,
and sow seed in it. Water lightly at regu-
lar intervals until young shrubs appear, then
shut off the moisture; “wet feet” is fatal.
July is a good month to put in seed. When
shifting Christmas-bushes to open ground
do not damage the roots.
Would it be possible to receive the Corowa
(N.S.W.) broadcasting station on a crystal
receiver 50 miles away ? —495.
A loose-coupler type of crystal set and a
pair of sensitive high-resistance headphones
will pick up 2GO fairly well at this distance.
Pay particular attention to the aerial and
earth circuits ; the former should be as high
as possible, and a low-resistance earth is
essential. A good earth can be made by
soldering a suitable length of aerial wire
at several points on a kerosene-tin and bury-
ing it, if possible, in moist soil. The lead
running between set and earth must be
kept as short as possible.
How to make vanilla essence from the
vanilla bean? —36l.
Vanilla beans, chopped finely, loz.; sugar,
30z.; alcohol, 50 p.c. strength, 1 pint. Beat
sugar and vanilla to a fine powder. Poui-
on dilute alcohol, mix well, pour into a
wide-mouthed bottle, cork Well and let stand
for two weeks. Shake thoroughly two or
three times a day. At the end of the period,
strain through fine muslin and cork very
tightly.
A bets B that after the Scullin Govern-
ment had remitted the. £5,000,000 in gold to
London there was less than £10.000,000 in
gold in the Federal Treasury. Who wins?
293.
B. Amount of gold held by the Common-
wealth Bank after it transferred £5,000,000
to London in June, 1931, was £10,232,820.
How to make a glossy whitewash? —34s.
Slake half a bushel of lime with boiling
water, covering the vessel with a sack to
keep in the steam. Strain through a fine
sieve and add a peck
solved in warm watei., 31b. ice » »
a thin paste, stirred and boiled -Pb. of P°w
dered Spanish whiting and llb - clean «,luc
dissolved in water. Add ogal. of hot wate
to the whole mixture. Stir well and stand
for a few days covered. This whitewasn
should be applied hot.
Names of seeds of flowers indigenous to
Australia which could be scut to friends
in the English climate: Braehycome rtm-
difolia (Swan River daisy). Rhodonite
maculate, Humca elegans (incense plant)
and Acrolinium roseum.
Mu daphne shrub has made little growth
in three years; the leaves are yellowing
and falling off. Best thing to do?—-uZo.
Probably the position m the garden is the
cause. Move it to a sunny sheltered place
and add a little sand to soil. Bad drain-
age which holds the water about the .loots
is fatal to this shrub; and keep hot
manures and fertilisers away from it.
Proper time to shift deciduous sit tubs ,
method, and soil treatment"? —533.
When the sap is down and the leaves have
fallen is the best time. Dig oyer the soil
and work into it a few shovels of lotted
leaves. In low land put in drainage pipes
or stones to carry oft' the surplus water.
Means of restoring brilliancy to a dulled
white sapphire? —437.
If it has been scratched or damaged, the
sapphire should be sent to a jeweller toi
expert polishing. Otherwise, wash in waim
suds containing a generous dash of cloudy
ammonia, and brush gently with a very sort
brush. Rinse in cold water, and allow to
dry Then pour a little metli. spirit or pure
alcohol into the palm of the hand and
rub the stone in it. Clean with a soft clotli
again, drop on a little spirit and allow to
dry. Rub up with silk cloth.
*Recipe for dressing material to make oil-
skin coat and material commonly used? —
24(1.
The best material is a very strong un-
bleached calico of the best procurable qual-
ity. All seams should be double lapped and
sewn twice. Oiling is most conveniently
done by dressing the coat with a prepared
mixture, clear or black, which can be
obtained from paints!)ops. To make it, take
4oz. good common yellow soap, shave. it up
finely into enough boiling water to dissolve
it into a jelly, and stir it briskly into one
quart of well-heated boiled linseed oil. oet
it aside in a warm place. If a black finish
is wanted add lampblack. Prepare the coat
by dipping it in .clean water and hanging
out to drain. When all the water is drained
out and the coat still damp, lay it out on a
table, and paint on the hot oil and soap
mixture with a stiff brush, dabbing well
into seams, etc. Hang up to dry. hen
perfectly dry, apply a second coat; dry
again, and paint on a third.
(1) What does the red-whiskered bulbul
look like? (2) Has it been officially de-
clared a pest? (3) If so, for what reason?
(4) How and when was it introduced here?
—504.
(1) It is somewhat larger than a house
sparrow, brownish above, grey and white
below, and blackish about the head. Dis-
tinguishing features are a sharp black crest
and a patch of crimson beneath the tail.
(2) Yes. (3) Evidence collected on behalf
of the Aus. Museum, Sydney, shows definitely
that the bird has a strong liking for soft
fruits. (4) It appears to have been intro-
duced at Sydney in 1905; possibly a pair
escaped from an aviary or were given their
freedom by thoughtless owners.
What causes a solar halo and under ivliat
conditions can one be seen? —397.
Refraction and reflection of the sun’s rays
by ice crystals. Solar halos can only occur
in the presence of cirrus clouds, which are
composed of ice crystals, and are frequently
observed thrown out in front or at the rear
of a storm system.
In a tennis match the umpire or a- lines-
man colls “out,” and instantly changes, call-
ing “play.” The receiver fails to return
the ball and claims that his shot was spoilt
by tha incorrect call. Has he any redress?
—lslo
The umpire must grant him a let unless
convinced that the mistaken call was not
the cause of the failure to return the ball.
Who were the Fifth Monarchy Men?— soo.
A religious sect that arose in England in
the time of Cromwell; they thought his
Government was a preparation for the “fifth
monarchy,” during which Christ should reign
on earth. They advocated a code of law
based on that of Moses, and when they saw
their hopes not likely to be fulfilled, turned
against Cromwell. After the Restoration
they rose in insurrection and were sup-
pressed; Venner, their leader, and ten others
were executed for high treason.
What causes the green ray which can
sometimes be seen just as the sun has set?
Under what conditions can it be seen? Can
it be seen at sunrise ? 442.
It is generally known in astronomy as the
“green flash” ; it is due to the refraction of
light in the atmosphere. This refraction is
least in the zenith and greatest at the
horizon. The sun’s light is made up of the
colors red, orange, yellow, green, blue,
indigo and violet, known as the solar spec-
trum. Just as the last remnant of the sun
is sinking below the horizon, the red, orange
and yellow rays, being refracted least, do
not reach the earth’s surface, hut give that
rosy glow to the upper atmosphere. The
green rays, along with the blue, indigo and
violet, are left when the others are lost; but
the blue, indigo and violet are less pene-
trative and affect the sensitivity of the eye
least, so the green ray predominates. Given
clear air, a horizon fairly distant and at a
low altitude (a sea horizon is preferable),
and unfatigued eyes (don’t gaze for long at
'the sun) the green flash is visible in a great
variety of circumstances. It is better seen
with a fipldglass than with unaided vision.
It is also equally well visible at sunrise,
with the advantage that the eye is not
tired, but the disadvantage _ that one must
keep a sharp- watch not to miss it.
Does Anybody Know?
Recipe for paint which will keep a roof
moderately cool? —565.
Brief Answers.
IT.A.S.: It is usually considered hopeless
xml thrown away; but you can sweeten it with
sugar and use it as a drink if you find it not
unpalatable. Made hot with the addition of sugar,
allspice, and a little lemon-peel, it makes a fair
substitute for punch.. . .M.A.C.: No “Wanted to
Sell’’ notices, thank you ! G.E.F.W.: N.S.W. law
prevents us furnishing information regarding sweeps
conducted outside the State... .A.H.: (1) 42 days.
(2) Apply Commonwealth Statistician, Canberra.
(3) Suez Canal route. (4) 160 saved and 133
105 t... :W.8.: (1) Get in touch with the Taxpayers’
Assoc, of Vic. (2) Generally speaking, unemploy-
ment relief tax is charged direct against the recipient
of income. .There is an exception in N.S.W. where
the Commissioner has power to call upon a co. to
pay in the case of absentee shareholders. .. .J.G.A.:
(1) See Bulletin No. 185, issued by S.A. Dept, of
Agriculture in 1924, entitled “Some Notes on
Dehydration or Evaporation.” (2) Get in touch
with Mr. E. S. West, Officer-in-Charge, Research
Station of Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, at Griffith (N.S.W.) ... .11. R.Bi: “The Secret
Victory,” a sequel to “The Education of Eric Lane,”
is now out of print.. . .G.W.: Sample of red ochreous
material you sent was not large enough for a
test... . J.D.M.L.: Try Parke, Lacy, Hardie, Ltd.,
60 Clarence-street, Sydney... .H.S.L.C.: (1) The
Financial Emergency Act (Vic.) reduced interest by
4s. 6d. in the £ as from October 1, 1931. (2) Act
provided, after it came into operation (Sept. 24,
1931), that a mortgagor might apply to the Court
to restrain mortgagee from the exercise of his rights
where not more than six months’ interest had
accrued due. (3) Does not appear to come within
the protection of the Act. (4) If a new loan,
then interest reduction does not apply, and co. may
fix its own rate... .K.C.: All are abo. names.
Burraga means bitter swamp; Goolara, moon-
light; Murrurundi, a mountain. .. .G.W.: (1)
Two values were issued in September, 1928;
the two-mark blue, and the four-mark sepia. In
1931 the one-mark carmine was added to the series.
(2) The one-mark is catalogued at Is. 4d. unused
and Is. 6d. used; the two-mark at 3s. 6d. unused
and 4s. 6d. used; the four-mark at 6s. 6d. unused
and 7s. 6d. used. (3) For the polar flight in 1931,
the Zeppelin stamps were overprinted “Nordpolfahrt.”
.. . .W.M.8.L.: (1) and (2) No reading fee will be
charged. (3) “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists'
Year Book” (2s. 6d.) ... .1.D.: Person or partner-
ship by whom you were employed is the one legally
responsible for payment of your wages. You could
recover amount due in Court on furnishing
proof. That is the principle, but in your case,
matters appear to have become so entangled that
you would require the assistance of a solicitor....
H.V.8.: Suggest you advertise in “Woman’s Mirror.”
. ...M.D.: (1) N.S.W. Govt. State Lottery, York
and Barrack streets, Sydney. (2) ss. 3d G.W.:
Take rectified eau de Cologne, 50 parts by weight;
belladonna dye, 8 parts; glycerine, 3 parts. Mix
well together, and keep tightly corked. May be
perfumed to any extent with any favorite essences.
. ...J.W.D.: “Pros and Cons,” by Cousens (4s.
3d.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .M. 8.: “Dog
Book of Australia” (2s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .R.D.: Get in touch with the council in
the place where you propose to erect the cabin....
N.L.W.: (1) “Berray” is near enough. (2) Can
trace no books on the making of lounge chairs....
8.E.W.: Treatment of such a long-standing condi-
tion would almost certainly be unsuccessful. In
the early stages, a 2 p.c. solution of zinc sulphate
could be recommended, but this would have little
effect now.. . .0.G.: Can find no record in reference
bftoks of any such action being taken. For con-
firmation .or denial you would have to write to
Treasury, Whitehall, London, S.W.I. .. .A.J.8.:
Before an answer can be given it is necessary to
know whether you were employed by a Federal or
State department... .W.H.: In Royal Agricultural
Society (Sydney) practice, equal awards count as a
win. Thus, in the case of two horses tying in
an event for maiden hunters, each would be recorded
as having w0n....F.5.: (1) Write Dept, of Labor
and Industry, Brisbane. (2) Get in touch with
Air Board, Defence Dept., Melbourne.... A. V.W.:
Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-
street, Waterloo, Sydney... .E.M.C.: “Organising
Peace” (6d.) and “What the League Has Done”
(Is.), obtainable from the League of Nations’ Union,
32 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .J.E.R.: The Douglas
Social Credit scheme was discussed in The Bulletin
in issues of Sept. 23, Sept. 30, Oct. 7, Oct. 14 and
Oct. 21—1931.... J.H.L.: Write Efftee Film Pro-
ductions, Ltd., His Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne
G.N.: “Fiji Times,” daily, “Pacific Press,” weekly,
Suva; “Polynesian Gazette,” weekly, Levuka. “Fiji
Royal Gazette” is a Government publication....
W.H.C.: Burrogooroo means the sea beach; Koota-
patamba, hole where the eagles drink; Murrawolga,
a sheet of deep water. .. .W.1v.8.: Write Officer-in-
charge, Correspondence Courses, Tech. College, Harris-
street, Ultimo, Sydney P.K.: Get in touch with
Federal Health Laboratory, Cairns, Q’land. .. .F.A.A.:
Write conductor Red Poll Herd Book of Australasia,
422 Collins-street, Melbourne... .J.P.N.: Do not
know of any herd of 50 cows in Q’land producing
an average of 4001 b. of fat R.T.: Not yet decided
whether admissions to Royal Military College of
Aus. will be made in 1933. If decision is in the
affirmative, advertisements will appear in the metro-
politan press in September... .W.J.M.: It is a pre-
rogative of the Crown to claim priority for its debts
before all other creditors... .L.F.G.: (1) He has
recourse to property covered by mortgage only, unless
personal covenant in the deed is included. (2)
There are a good many textbooks, written for legal
practitioners only ; know of no book written specially
for laymen... .J.A.F.: If you can show that you
were induced to enter into the contract by false or
misleading representations, you will have ground of
action for avoiding it. But you cannot assume pro-
perty in the cows and sell them whilst seeking to
avoid the contract. It must be one way or the
other D.G.R.: “Metal Turning,” by Horner....
J.8.C.: You couldn’t get at it that way ; for instance,
some unknown proportion of overhead (rent, rates,
taxes, business management, etc.) would have to be
added. The selection of verse and stories, fox-
example, costs much more than the verse and stories
themselves... .A.J.E.P.. Impossible to determine
value without inspection D.G.C.: Write Lecturer-
in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo,
Sydney F.R.F.: Write direct Cribb and Foote,
Ipswich, Q’land A.G.W.: “Handy Hints for the
Farm,” from this office, Is. 2d. posted W.M.:
Write Aus. Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spx-ing-
street, Sydney, for free pamphlet No. 5, “Troughs,
Tanks and Wells” R.P.D.: Australia is to be
represented at the Los Angeles Games by Andrew
Charlton, Noel Ryan, Frances Bult, Claire Dennis
and Bonnie Mealing (swimmers) ; E. Scarf
(wrestler) ; Duncan Gray (cyclist) ; Bobby Pearce
(sculler) ; George Golding, Alex Hillhouse, Barwick
and Eileen Wearne (runners) A.L.S.: See Green’s
“Outline of Australian Literature,” Palmer’s “Modern
Australian Literature,” “Henry Lawson, by His
Mates,” edited by Prof. Le Gay Brereton, article in
“Australian Encyclopaedia” (vol. 1), and Bulletin
files at the time of his death, Sept. 2, 1922. A
visit to the Mitchell Library, Sydney, would also
bring to light biographical and critical matter....
(Many othex-s mailed.)


Dope
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etty Smith from a
half-breed’s knife in a Sydney water-
front “dive Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings. As she tends him Johns
realises that she, who is far short of
his ideal, loves him. Captain Smith,
her father, realises it, too; he sacks
the drunken mate for assaulting Johns,
whom he makes acting first mate.
When Yarley. one-time medical stu-
dent, now the cook, confesses he
loves Etty, Johns agrees it is only
right to tell her he, Johns, does not
love her; but keeps putting this off.
At Lola-Pahga Fay Campbell, on
a cruise in her father's steam yacht,
Arethusa, visits Etty—and Johns
meets his ideal. Campbell is astounded
token Johns refuses his offer of assist-
ance. That night, inspired by Yarley,
Johns deserts, stowing away in the
Arethusa’s lifeboat. The yacht sails.
Planning the great book he hopes to
torite helps Johns through the follow-
ing exhausting hours. lie hears Fay
discuss him, and she scarcely conceals
her interest in him from her father.
Racked by his cravings, Johns sneaks
ashore at Zamlaoar to Yarley’s friend.
Wooden Charlie, half-caste owner of
a drinking-hell, who gives him dope
and, later, a job. Meeting the Camp-
bells, ostensibly by accident. Johns
takes Fay motoring. In the moon-
light, he confesses his weakness; she
is sure he trill conquer it.
BOOK lII—THE SPINDRIFT.
Chapter I
Ernest william johns, m.a.
Oxon., sat at the table motionless, his
head on his arms.
The silence in the room was absolute.
His breathing came regularly and softly.
As the door opened he did not move, and
Wooden Charlie paused on the threshold.
It was nine o’clock in the morning and
the cleaners were just about to begin their
attack upon the huge room that served the
dual purpose of dancehall-restaurant and
drinking-hell. In the morning light the
draperies showed tawdry and drab; they
hung lifeless, inert, as though exhausted
from their debauches of the night before.
The steamy heat of the morning seeped
through the place; and in the still air the
reek of stale tobacco smoke and gin hung
like a pall.
The half-caste paused irresolute. He did not
wish to wake Johns, and yet his need of him
was strangely urgent. Of late the establish-
ment that gave him his living had become
increasingly distasteful to him. It, was no
longer merely a source of unfailing revenue
which enabled him to save more hundreds
of pounds English each year than any three
of his customers earned between them. The
grim satisfaction of battening on the vices
of the dregs of the very civilisation that
had made an outcast of him was no longer
there; rather its place had been taken by
a loathing that was a millstone around the
neck of his self-respect. The sordidness
of it all had refused to be longer relegated
to his subconscious mind. It was the sor-
didness alone that now made its impres-
sion upon him. And this morning, more
than ever, the dank feetor of the deserted
hall had struck up at him; it had reached
up its filthy talons to clutch at his throat,
so that he felt himself suffocating, and
he had made a bee-line for the room where
he knew' he would find Johns at work.
The Englishman’s company and conversa-
tion came to Mm always as a tonic. Johns’s
gratitude for the half-caste’s care of him in
To black days following the departure of
ne Arethusa had been so patent and yet
so restrained; Johns’s lack of emotionalism
in his normal moments—and they were
becoming more and more frequent with
each day and of longer individual duration
—appealed to the Oriental blood that
flowed in his employer’s veins.
And they had been dark days, those
first few days. The departure of the Are-
thusa had seemed to Johns symbolical.
He had had no opportunity of talking to
Fay on the day- after their trip to Fairy
Point; and, although he had been down
at the water’s edge that night to see the
Arethusa sail, he had not made his pre-
sence known. He had felt, after that first
day of work at Wooden Charlie’s, that he
was unfit to go into the presence of his own
kind. The exaltation of the night before
had gone, and he had seen himself clearly
and in the light in which, he realised bit-
terly, other people would have viewed him.
A bookkeeper in a half-caste’s drinking-
hell! A person unfit to associate with
decent folk!
And so he had stood, that evening, in the
shadows at the jetty’s foot, and had
watched the Arethusa turn her nose disdain-
fully away from the squalor of the water-
front, and head eagerly towards the open
cleanness of the ocean. He had been de-
pressed, utterly miserable, for it seemed to
him, looking back on the preceding night,
that his parting from Fay had been casual
to the point of indifference. How could
she be expected to know that some day
he hoped!
He had not even dared, that evening as
he stared through a mist at the departing
lights of the Arethusa, to put his hopes into
words, even in the privacy of bis own
mind. And as he retraced his steps
towards Wooden Charlie’s, the memory of
that other night when he had walked those
same noisome streets came back to him.
He felt that the sea was rising up between
him and all that was worth while in life.
Some day, perhaps, he might conquer the
sea—but first he had the more difficult task
to accomplish, the conquest of himself.
In the days that had followed. Wooden
Charlie had been more woman than man
in his tender solicitude for Johns. He
had watched over him, reasoned with him,
and rationed him shrewdly with the
cocaine, so that, at the end of a week,
Johns had returned to sanity and to a
realisation that there had sprung up be-
tween the half-caste and himself a bond—
a bond that bridged completely, and with-
out reservations, the gulf that the yellow
blood of China had created between
Wooden Charlie and the civilisation that
had turned him adrift.
In the two months that had followed the
bond had grown stronger. So strong that,
this morning, Wooden Charlie, in need of
companionship and understanding, had
turned, in his nausea and disgust for the
deserted hall, as naturally to Johns as he
would have turned to a brother.
He was on the point of tiptoeing back
into the hall, when Johns suddenly looked
up.
“Don’t go, Charlie.” He patted the table
in invitation.
“I thought you were asleep, Johnny.”
The half-caste’s voice was apologetic.
Johns shook his head. “I was thinking.
I’ve worked it out Charlie! 1 finished it
last night.”
“The happy ending, too?” Charlie’s voice
was incredulous. In the book that Johns
was planning to write it scarcely seemed
possible that there could be a happy ending.
“Yes.” Johns’s voice was not triumphant.
Rather it was toneless, indifferent. Easy
enough, he told himself, to find happy
endings to other people’s troubles! “Yes.
A happy ending. Call it prosodic license,
if you like; but it works out fairly natu-
rally.”
Wooden Charlie’s eyes lighted. When
alone with Johns he always allowed his
Occidental self more liberty' than at other
times.
“It’ll be a success, Johnny! I know that
already. When are you going to start to
write it?”
“To-day. The rough draft, anyway. That
will take me three months at least. It
means nine months or more of hard graft
altogether, I suppose.”
The half-caste laid his hand on the Eng-
lishman’s shoulder.
“Johnny, take my offer. You can pay
me back when the published. You
could finish it in half the time.”.
The other stiffened.
“No. no; I couldn’t do it. Charlie. If
the thing was guaranteed to be a success
I would. But I’m not going to take three
months’ charity. A while ago, perhaps, I
would have done so. But you’ve got me
nearly back to normal, and I couldn’t do
it.” He laid his hand on the yellow hand
that rested near him on the table. “Don’t
think that it’s for any reason but my own
damned pride. Charlie.” he pleaded. “You
know as well as I do that if there was any
man on earth from whom I would take it.
it would be you. But what would I feel
like if I’d been living like a lord at your
expense, and had nothing to show for it
except a heap of worthless paper? Besides,”
he smiled, “a life of luxury doesn’t con-
duce to mental effort.”
Wooden Charlie sighed. It was the last
effort that he would make to persuade
Johns to do what he so eagerly wanted him
to do. He knew that Johnny was in earnest,
that all the coaxing and wheedling in the
world would never make him change his
mind. But it hurt him to think that his
friend would not accept the offer, no matter
what the reason for the refusal. There was
enough in his current account alone to pay
for the three months’ stay at the hotel—
twenty times over.
The money was a
mere bagatelle —he
would never miss it
—and surely his
Johnny could have
concentrated better in
the easier circum-
stances.
He shrugged lightly.
He had no desire to
let the other see the
extent of his hurt.
His hand went into
his pocket and pro-
duced a tiny wisp of
paper.
“The fourth morning, Johnny,” he said
as he held the paper out to him.
Johns took it, holding it as though weigh-
ing it and its merits. Then suddenly, im-
petuously, he handed it back.
“No!” His voice was exultant. “No!
I don’t need it! I can go till to-morrow —
perhaps longer!”
Again the Orient was submerged by the
Occident. Wooden Charlie’s face beamed.
It was an occasion for i-ejoicing. His
friend was another step forward in the
struggle. They were mutual helpers. He
was helping the Englishman on to regain
his self-control, his normality of mind, while
the Englishman was helping him —rather,
had already helped him—to regain his self-
respect. He was no longer Wooden Charlie,
the unemotional automaton who made
money coldly, calculatingly, out of the
weaknesses of the seamen of all nations
who patronised his hall. The money-
making was, in fact, almost over. An over-
whelming impulse came to him to tell the
Englishman the news. But some Oriental
reservation held him back. The papers
were not yet signed. There might be some
hitch at the last moment.
But that evening, that evening after the
night’s work was done, and when Johnny
was adding up the day’s takings, he would
come to him and he would tell him calmljq
his emotions well in check, that he was no
longer the owner of “Wooden Charlie’s,”
that that day he had signed the last of
the papers, and that within the week
“Wooden Charlie’s,” as such, would dis-
appear from the map of the slums of Zan-
davar; that, he had sold the business, lock,
stock and barrel, and was free now to go
with his friend—no longer his employee,
as Johns so frequently, even if humorously,
insisted on styling himself, and find the
quietness which he knew Johns needed for
the writing of his book.
So then to-night would be the Night of
Nights; and for to-day he would be con-
tent to hold his peace about the sale —
and about that other little matter which his
lawyers were adjusting for him.
Later that morning the two men
strolled through the streets towards the
bank, and from there to the saloon bar of
the Metropolc.
Wooden Charlie never crossed that
threshold without a sudden surge of grati-
tude towards Johns. Once,, alone, four
years ago, he had ventured therein; but
his sensitive mind had found insult in the
contemptuous silence with which the
barman—a microcephalic Cockney who
had drifted to Zandavar after the war —
had treated the tentative remark that he
had made while waiting for his drink.
The little Cockney, gutter-spawn of
Whitechapel, had sensed the “Chi-Chi,”
and the knowledge had evoked the arro-
gance of race-consciousness!
Now, four years later, the same barman
called him “sir,” and simply because
Johns had shown himself to be his friend.
Whitechapel, abashed immediately in the
presence of Mayfair and Piccadilly, had
become at once polite and attentive!
That it was his, Wooden Charlie’s,
doing that Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon., was able to show himself in his
true colors did not occur to the half-caste.
Or, if it did, he brushed the thought aside.
Money might re-make the gentleman in
Johns, but it was not money that made the
gentleman in himself, that overshadowed
the strain of yellow blood that lay, a bar
sinister, on his escutcheon. It was the
vise of Johns that gave Wooden Charlie
the privilege.
He touqhed his glass to Johns’s. “To
success, Johnny,” he said softly. “To
success; to health and wealth—and all
that you wish for!”
Johns drank the toast soberly. It was
no occasion for light-heartedness. He
knew that behind the smiling eyes of his
friend there lay an ever-present misery.
For Wooden Charlie was wishing him all
that he himself was denied—the right to
citizenship, the right to a name, the right
to a wife and children.
Johns’s eyes, as they rested on the
other’s suddenly down-bent head, were
luminous. He owed so much—so much
that he could never hope to repay. It was
another debt imponderable.
Wooden Charlie suddenly looked up
with a laugh.
“Another one!” he said. “To-morrow is
to be the dawn of a new era! That is a
promise, Johnny—although you must wait
until closing time to-night to have your
curiosity satisfied. But we will drink to
it now.” The little Cockney had filled
their glasses again, and Wooden Charlie
raised his quickly to his lips. “To to-
morrow, Johnny!”
The toast came sharply, eagerly, and
with a quick gesture he tossed, off the
liquor and deliberately snapped the narrow
stem of glass between his supple lingers.
Johns followed suit. He had the feeling
that he was taking part in some strange
ritual—a pagan charade of the Orient.
There was about it an odd air of finality.
It made the morrow an entity.
CHAPTER 11.
It was the sudden change in tenor of
the noise that aroused Johns from his
fitful doze. He was waiting for closing
hour to come, so that he could check the
day’s takings, and then hear what Wooden
Charlie had to say to him—the “surprise”
of which he had hinted a dozen times since
their strange toast in the hotel that
morning. Usually, in the privacy of his
room, Johns was in the habit of writing
during the evening hours. He had so
schooled himself that the noise from the
restaurant registered no impression in his
mind. It had become a constant that was
part of his working hours and, as such,
negligible.
But this evening he had not been able
to work. He was missing the ration of
cocaine that he had so triumphantly
refused that morning. But he resolutely
resisted the temptation to take it now
instead of waiting until the following day.
It might mean the loss of one night’s
work on his book, but that was better than
to lose the advantage that he had gained
over his craving. And now r that the plot
was all worked out and only the actual
writing of the thing to be done, a night’s
work was of no importance. The rest,
he told himself, would bring him all the
fresher the next day to the commencement
of the first chapter.
But he had not been able to sleep
properly. It had been nothing more than
a fitful doze, and the supra-orbital nerves,
with their constant faint, throbbing, had
kept him partly conscious of the chatter
and clatter from the hall.
But until that moment it had merely
been the diapason of sound to which his
ears by night had grown accustomed. Too
far away, behind his felt-lined door, to
hear the actual words, he heard it always
as one might hear the distant crooning
of the ocean on a reef. A pleasant
murmur of sound, unmarred by the finite
words that would have turned it to an
unpleasant medley of conversation.
At first, after he had been roused, he
took but little notice of the change in
tenor. He was busy once more with his
own problem, which had been shelved
for the time being by his dozing. It had
seemed so easy that morning to refuse the
“issue” of cocaine. But it was not so
easy now. And every passing hour made
it more of a torture to resist the longing.
It was only the thought of the morrow
that sustained his self-control. It would
be too bad, he told himself a dozen times,
to disappoint Charlie, when he had been
so pleased that morning at Johns’s refusal
of the drug. He must wait until
to-morrow, at any cost. Something
unique was to happen then. Charlie had
hinted as much. But what that some-
thing might be, Johns. had no idea,
nevertheless through all his thoughts there
ran the rhythm of the word. To-morrow!
To-morrow was to be finite—an entity
apart from time. The dawn of a new
era, Charlie had said. Well, he would
do his share towards it; he would hold
out against the drug until to-morrow.
Suddenly, abruptly, so that the wrench
was almost physical, his consciousness was
transported to the restaurant. The change
in tenor of the babel was more marked,
more ominous.
The general chatter was growing hushed,
general interest was becoming focussed on
some point. But three voices were still
raised. Two of them querulous, angry
with the injured pride of outraged alco-
holic dignity; the third lower in pitch,
but clear-cut and incisive.
The sudden realisation that this third
voice was Wooden Charlie’s stirred Johns
to disturbing uneasiness of mind. He had
never, until then, heard his friend engaged
in altercation with any of his customers.
When ejections had been necessary,
Wooden Charlie had been the one to
issue the order in a calm voice to one
or other of his lieutenants. But beyond
that lie had not gone. He had never
previously, to Johns’s knowledge, taken a
personal share. The uneasiness increased
in Johns’s mind until it grew to premo-
nition.
The sense of impending disaster weighed
down on him, chaining him, immobile, to
his chair. He had the sensation of living
through a nightmare. With a stupendous
effort he threw off his inertia, and, taking
the revolver from its drawer, he started
towards the door.
His hand was on the key when the shot
rang out.
One shot, and then dead silence.
Feverishly he wrenched at the door.
And yet, he was telling himself, with the
leadenness of foi'eknowledge, it was useless.
He knew—he knew beyond all doubt—
what he would see when he opened the
door. His eyes were not needed to sub-
stantiate his knowledge. Every nerve was
aquiver with the premonition that it was
Wooden Charlie who was dead. Why else
that ghastly silence? If Wooden Charlie
had been the killer and not the killed,
there would have been some sound; if
only the sound of Wooden Charlie himself
issuing calm orders. Anything rather than
that breath-catching stillness!


If men walked
abroad in their undies
—it would still be easy to pick out the
smart, “dressy” types. The eye would
irresistibly be drawn to the IRMA gar-
ments, products of I. & R. Morley.
More than 140 years’ progressive experi-
ence in manufacturing have built up a
world-wide reputation for these British
garments —now made in Australia. There
are styles, weights and qualities for every
taste —Union Suits, Trunk Drawers, Ath-
letic Vests —long sleeves, half-sleeves,
sleeveless, and so on.
Let your outfitter show you a range in pure
wool, wool and silk, wool and cotton, silk
and cotton, cotton, and art-silk.... Examine
the quality, weave, workmanship and finish.
Then for lasting economy you will decide
on IRMA.
AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES.
Factory Representatives for I. and R. Morley Pty.,
Ltd.
GOLLIN & COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth (for
Queensland, Vic., S.A., W.A. and Tas.).
0. J. SPAROWE,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney (for N.S.AV.).
N
mm
1/
LK.MORLEYS
WORLD FAMOUS UNDERWEAR
English Quality Australian Made
There are full ranges of IRMA
Underwear for women also.
Us
lo
iSt
I
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE via
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FIIANCE
BOTTLED 4. GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE PRENCH
GOVERNMENT
w
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
tictty and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
t&he following statement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER (
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
® complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the atorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
Australia: MAURICE PELL ETIER,
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
As Johns opened the door, a woman’s
voice rang out in high hysterical laughter.
The sound opened the floodgates of the
crowd’s emotions and a hundred tongues
started wagging at once.
“Ecco Vuomo!”
An Italian drab had suddenly jumped
on to a table as she caught sight of Johns
emerging from the private room. She
recognised him as the right-hand man of
Wooden Charlie, and a perverted sense
of virtue caused her to denounce the
murderer. She had been sitting with him
when the disturbance had commenced,
and she feared the wrath of the police more
than that of her erstwhile companion.
“Ecco Vuomo, signore!”
She was suddenly dragged down by
unseen hands, and the uproar redoubled
itself. One voice, however, rang out
above the babel. A loud voice, not unmusi-
cal, whose words carried clearly to Johns.
“Serve him well right,” the speaker
hiccoughed loudly, and sprang on to the
table that had been vacated so unpre-
meditatedly by the Italian drab. “I’ll
teach a God-damned Chi-Chi to pijaw
me! I told ’im this place wanted a clean-
up, and now it’s shore goin’ to git it!”
The speaker was fighting mad with
drink, and in each hand he carried a
revolver. As he spoke he waved them
menacingly over the heads of the crowd.
“Don’t kid yerselves I always been a
hell-fired deck-swabber!” he roared tem-
pestuously. “Me, I come from Gard’s
own country! Me, I’ve cleared worse
places ’an this afore now!”
He stopped talking abruptly, hiccoughed
agonisingly, and proceeded to shoot. He
did it with a calmness and precision that
bore eloquent testimony to the truth of
his statement. There was a methodical
routine about it that, in other circum-
stances, might have been humorous. The
long mirror behind the bar went first, then
a few bottles in their racks, and then the
huge imitation stained-glass window that
had been Wooden Charlie’s particular
pride.
With a whoop he threw his empty
revolver at the heads of the crowd, who
were watching in dumb terror, and trans-
ferred the second “gun” to his right hand.
“Here goes!” he yelled, with a sudden
surge of triumph, and raised his arm.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon.,
suddenly came to life.
“For Christ sake, don’t!” he screamed,
and, levelling his own revolver, took aim
at the sharpshooter. But his hand was
shaking with excitement and his first two
shots went wide. After that he had no
opportunity to try again.
The restaurant in Wooden Charlie’s
building was lighted by a central hanging
cluster of lamps which collectively drew
their fuel from a large glass reservoir
around the circumference of which the
lamps were arranged. It was an original
conception of Wooden Charlie’s, and the
beauty of the thing—for it was exquis-
itely modelled—had always struck Johns
as being utterly incongruous in that hall
of vice. It was at this cluster that the
drunken American was aiming.
With three rapid shots he picked off
three of the lamps, and then, as though
satisfied that he had proved his marks-
manship, and completely ignoring Johns
and his revolver, he took aim at the
point in the roof from which the four
chains that supported the whole structure
were attached.
For a second after the shot there was
still light as the lamp cluster sagged from
its yielding supports. Then, comet-like,
it crashed downwards, and suddenly the
room was filled with a dazzling glare that
blinded by its very brightness.
As one man the crowd surged for the
exit. The long streams of kerosene, spread-
ing out across the floor, were snakes of
flame, darting out fiery tongues. The ten-
tacles of an octopus! The thought flashed
through Johns’s mind in fantastic simile; —
the tentacles of an octopus of fire spreading
out ruthlessly from the parent body, reach-
ing implacably, irresistibly, to draw in the
victims.
Victims! Johns caught his breath in a
sudden sob. Wooden Charlie was lying out
there—dead. He could make no effort to
save himself—he was depending on his
friend. Otherwise he must lie there impot-
ent until the snaking arms of fire wrapped
themselves around his inert body. Johns
pressed his hands to his supra-orbital nerves.
What was he to do? He could not leave
Wooden Charlie there to die—no; not to
die; he was dead already!—but to burn.
The thought nauseated him. Burning flesh,
that sickening, singeing odor. Wooden
Charlie’s flesh! By God! he couldn’t stand
that!
The restaurant was filling with thick
black smoke. It welled out of the flames to
occupy the space vacated by the panicking
crowd. Johns found time to sneer at the
gibbering, chattering frenzy that was caus-
ing them to trample one another in their
struggle for salvation. What would it have
mattered if every one of those hell-spawn
had died, he asked himself, if only Wooden
Charlie still lived?
Ihe heavy, acrid fumes irritated his lungs
so fhnt he coughed until he vomited, and
red-hot needles brought scorching tears to
his eyes. Fear Death? “To feel the fog
in ray throat?” God, death itself could
not be worse, Hell could hold no more
terrors than did that inferno through which
he must force himself to find the body of
his friend 1
As he bent over Wooden Charlie a
moment later, thrusting his hands into the
dead man’s armpits, a gust of wind blew
in through the smashed window. The
flames leapt joyfully; they had only been
waiting for that little encouragement to
start their destruction in real earnest.
“Blast you!” Johns screamed as a red-
hot tongue suddenly darted at him. “Blast
you, can’t you leave me alone? I’ve got to
get Charlie out of this!” He felt a sudden
sense of comfort as the flame died away.
It had understood. It knew r that, whatever
happened, he had to drag that limp body
to the comparative safety of the street.
With still another five yards to go his
clothes were singeing. Once he had to stop,
to let go his burden, while with his naked
hands lie beat out the flame that had sud-
denly leaped to life on the leg of Charlie’s
tussore trousers, and' the feel of the dead
flesh underneath his beating hands sickened
him.
It was agony to pick up the burden again.
The mere touch of anything against his
now raw palms was cruel enough; the drag-
ging of a dead weight was almost unbear-
able. But the searing pain seemed to give
him added strength; it drove him to an
almost? maniacal energy, in an effort to get
the task over. The sooner it was done the
sooner he would get relief from his agony.
The passage was not very long, and he was
nearly to it, nearly out of the raging fur-
nace that had once been the restaurant.
A year of terror and agony was crammed
into the next minute and a half as Johns
dragged his burden, inch by inch, along the
passage. And yet he worked coolly, meth-
odically, husbanding his strength, and keep-
in subjection the panic that was constantly
nagging at him. “Leave him!” it urged.
“Leave him here. He’s dead. He won’t
feel anything!” And the flames seemed
to echo the advice. But Ernest William
Johns, M.A. Oxon., had set his shoulder
to the wheel. Wooden Charlie would have
done as much for him, he told himself.
When at last he reached the pavement
and felt the cool air of the night against his
aching head, Johns let go his burden with
a little sob of relief and straightened his
back. He drew in deep gulps of air, while
half a dozen pairs of hands lifted the corpse
to carry it to a place of safety. For a
moment he stood watching the flames. So
this was the end of it, was it? So this was
the end of the promise that Wooden Charlie
had made so triumphantly that morning?
The dawn of a new, era! He laughed, but
the laugh ended in a choking sob.
As Johns turned to follow the little cor-
tege that was conveying Wooden Charlie’s
body through the seething crowd, the pas-
sage-way from which he had come so shortly
before belched forth a roaring flame; hot
on its heels there came a dense cloud of
black smoke, and a rending crash, like
thunder muted by thick clouds, told him
that the roof had fallen in. A sudden column
of smoke, bejewelled with blood-red sparks,
shot skywards, and great leaping flames
followed, so that the Street became flood-
lit; and the sea of faces showed passive
and motionless, expressionless even, in the
immobility of awe.
They were so many worshippers, he told
himself, those onlookers—dregs of a hundred
cities perhaps, but for once filled with the
wonder of worship. Worship for the God of
Fire! A god, he reflected bitterly, which was
a jealous god. A god who had ruthlessly
snatched from him the future that had
seemed so blight; a god who had snatched
from him-—Wooden Charlie!
Suddenly the tide of humanity began to
ebb and flow, moiling itself into strange
eddies as it strove to make room for the
fire-carts, and hampering, in its own anxiety
to help the work of the men whose task was
more than big enough already. For the
fire was spreading; the buildings on either
side were smouldering, and at any minute
might burst into a blaze.
(To be continued next weeh.)
The Irrecoverable.
Once I glimpsed ;> splendor,
Radiant, dream-begot;
But a careless spender
Of time caught it not.
Unto me it whispered,
“You, that idle are,
Catch me, cage me, hold me,
Ere I fade afar.”
Passed away the moment,
Charged with glow and gleam,
Passed the night and music
Of a lovely theme.
Years since then I’ve quested
By its magic spelled,
But its starry beauty
Ne’er have I beheld.
Seeking for that splendor
Long ago that paled.
Lonesome shores I’ve trodden,
Seas uncharted sailed.
Heights I’ve climbed to view it,
Haunted lake and plain;
And on strange horizons
Sought for it in vain.
Hollow lands I’ve travelled,
Rolling rivers crossed.
And through wildernesses
Wandered, lone and lost.
Far and near I’ve sought it,
Night and morn and noon—
Sought, the mood that wrought it,
Shadow, light and tune.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
as
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross ’for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
Ali car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
All truck sizes
30/-
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
( Turf sages were agreed that this year’s
Grand National Hurdle was one of the most
open in the history of the race, and their
opinion was verified by Polygonum bringing
home the bacon at 14 to 1. This nine-year-
old son of Buckwheat had finished third to
Iledditcli and Bay of Biscay at Williams-
town a week before, and six rivals were pre-
ferred to him. Condition, plus stamina,
enabled Polygonum, with his light impost,
to smother the leaders at the home turn and
carry Alick Fullarton to a six-lengths’ vic-
tory ; Dunkeld, another outsider’, was second ;
Eedditch had to be ridden right out with
the whip to gain third place. Almost of a
certainty Bhopal would have been second if
she had not broken down badly in the near-
foreleg 100 yards from home.
Steve Murphy, who won an Ascot (Vic.)
Thousand before the war on Ambrosia,
trains Polygonum for R. Keane. Roche
Noir, the grand-dam of Polygonum, was
mated in England with Tredennis and pro-
duced Chatenay after her importation to
N. S. Wales by W. B. and C. L. Thompson.
There is Carbine blood in Polygonum; Roche
Noir _ is by Fowling Piece, a son of “Old
Jack.” In the Grand National Hurdle of
1931 Polygonum fell at the last flight of
battens, when running second to the winner,
Cockcrow. Cockrow shaped poorly on Satur-
day, being well settled when he toppled over
about seven furlongs from home. Nauru,
who deposed Redditeli from favoritism on
the course, travelled splendidly until the
straight entrance was approached, when he
compounded. Appledore’s success in the
Maiden Hurdle seemed to brighten the
“National” prospects of his stable-com-
panions. Landmark and Makeup; but neither
of these Maorilanders ever was in the pic-
ture. Lady Doris, from Sydney, also fell
Gep?t : "Ow Bert \ "
Bert ; What were you trying, to do - ?"
G,eRT The Pieujße eis^n-r^
Bert looped the loop’
far below expectations. Ceilidh, from South
Aus., gave a surprisingly good account of
himself for a. 50-to-l chance.
r ‘ * ' ' ' '
Jock Holt captured two of the flat races
and ran second in another. ITe won the
juvenile event for C. B. Kellow with Some
Hero, a son of Heroic, and the second divi-
sion ot the Iramoo Welter for A. T. Craig
with Press Gang, by The Night Patrol, sire
of Middle Watch. Herowinkie, the dam of
Some Hero, was named by Kellow after
Heroic and Pilliewinkie, over whom he won
a pot of money in the Newmarket Handicap
and Australian Cup. Duncan rode both
Some Hero and Press Gang, and he also was
on Eastern Glow when that Warrnambool
Cup winner was easily beaten by Induna
(from S.A.) in the Winter Handicap.
Archeson, winner of the Groat Eastern at
Oakbank (S.A.) on Easter Monday, rules
favorite for the National Steeplechase. He
is entitled to that honor by reason of liis
success at the V.R.C. June meeting. The
fine jumping ability of Archeson will be. a
great asset to him in the journey of three
miles and a furlong. Bulletin scribe con-
aiders that Nauru will be Archeson’s most
dangerous rival. He has proved his worth
as a cross-country performer, and will be
advantaged by having the services of Bob
Inkson as jockey. No steeplechase candi-
date could have acquitted himself as well
as Nauru did up to a point in the Grand
National Hurdle, for Mosstrooper and Sand-
hurst are far from being in their best form,
Precocious, the Williamstown winner, is
developing rapidly from the hunter class,
Copey may be best of the Maorilanders. He
is reputed to be partial to heavy going.
Appellant lacks nothing in condition, and
won the Kensington Steeplechase well, but
can he stay the distance? Their long ex-
perience over fences commend Congoola,
Ancient Mariner and George William to
consideration, while Scottish March has a
John Brown pedigree and no mean ability
as a jumper. Fancies: —
Lawn Handicap; Illustrious or Auto Pay.
Doutta Galla Hurdle ; Laniroi or Dunkeld.
Grand National Steeplechase : Archesou 1,
Nauru 2, Precocious 3.
A.J.C. committeemen have lost the enthu-
siasm for jumping events that led them to
put up prizes which, season after season, had
a greater market value than all the runners;
and recent spectacles are by no means likely
to revive it. At Moorefield on Saturday,
Jocoon, an old stager who was never smart
at his hurdles and was slow on the flat,
broke his neck, and the jockey, Cutler, lay
stretched out beside him. Cutler was taken
to hospital, suffering from a fractured skull.
There was excitement of a different sort at
Moorefield. Alleviate, one of the joint
favorites (at 6 to 4) for the Maiden Plate,
came home first after a neck-and-neck
struggle, but was disqualified for interfer-
ence with Sir Morion (7 to 1), trained on
the course and owned by R. W. Mackinnon.
Bartle, rider of Sir Morion, figured in an
even closer finish in the very next race, the
first division of the Flying Welter. He was
on Liard Words (2 to 1), the favorite, and
Hard Words was clear most of the way, but
weight (9st. 121 b.) told and Gun Club (10
to 1) caught bufc did not pass him, the rider
Welsh, taking things too easily. Orby Anthus,
who was giving Hard Words a stone, did
well to get within a length of the dead-
lieaters. The second division furnished
another willing finish, and gave most of the
ringmen a skinner. Bells of Shandon, a bay
gelding by Lord Quex —Peg o’ My Heart,
like Hard Words bred in Maoriland, was
the winner, and McShortodds vainly called
25 to 1 about him; on the Leger tote the
div. (one of three) was £9 6s. for ss. Matson,
the second horse, was another outsider, and
so was Popilda (third) for a time; then a
substantial commission brought Popilda’s
price from 14 to 1 to fives. Senator was
fourth.
Wallace Mimi, by Wallace Mortlake—
Duchess Mimi, is as consistent as his sire
was inconsistent. Wallace Mortlake once
surprised and delighted the late John Brown
by beating Windbag at weight-for-age; but
he never did anything notable afterwards,
and punters were glad to see the last of him.
Wallace Mirni has been first, third, first,
fourth and first in his last five starts. Seldom
is a middle-distance horse so honest.
Cylanta and Herolage (9 to 2) were at
shorter prices than Wallace Mimi in the bet-
ting on the July Handicap, and Herolage ran
another sterling race; but Wallace Mimi,
capitally ridden by the apprentice Britt,
was too good for him. The price, 7 to 1,
was unexpectedly liberal. Chnquisaca, an
acceptor for this race and the Hurstville
Mile, was not produced in either. The
Rydalmcre Mile fell to Pytheus (7 to 1),
after an interesting race with Trenette and
Beau Dennis, the favorite,
* * * *
in ,
, 01 an^er^ury Bar k on Saturday:
Flying Handicap: Senator; next, Sunlit
Canterbury Handicap: King March; next,
Salvador.
Campsie Handicap: Mr. Whiz; next,
Servius.
JV/I Q / anr J Rnl*»«
y ' uerty ; Kules
Leichhardt Stadium has lost Pat McHugh,
wb ° managed the place for 10 years or so.
He ma y open another boxing hall close to the
present one. With the discontinuance of
Friday-night fights at Leichhardt, Newtown
Olympia has stepped into the breach. It
matched Tommy Fielding (9st. 121 b.) and
Jerry Hostler (lOst. 41b.) last week. Host-
ler led a lot more often than the Canuck
and was well ahead on points when Field-
uig’s left landed low in the 12th. Hostler,
on a foul.
* * * #
Nine times out of ten the savagery of the
wrestling brotherhood is mere showmanship
but the methods of the Greek Mamos (13st
131 b.) against Dean Detton (13st 81b ) at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday were so rough
that the police stopped the thing in the
fourth round. On the other hand Detton
wrestled attractively without departing from
the rules. Mamos bit, kicked or punched at
every opportunity. Neither had scored a
fall when the fourth opened. Mamos hurled
his' opponent over the ropes, and, following
him to the press seats, commenced cracking
him with clenched fists. Then the inspector
intervened, and the crowd, exhausted by
excitement and hooting, melted into the
night. Lurich beat Elliott at Leichhardt.
Footbrawl
The first Rugby Union Test between Aus-
tralia and the All Blacks, at Sydney Cricket
Ground saw the home side win a finely-
contested game by 22-17, or 4 tries, 2 con-
verted, and 2 penalty goals to 3 tries, 2
converted, and a field goal by Pollock. The
opening stages of the game were slow, due
mainly to over-eagerness by the players
and a disposition to exact every penalty by
referee Mayne. However, all hands soon
got into their stride, and in the second
half the game blossomed into a feast of
good and exciting football by both sides.
Australia was 8 points down in the first 20
minutes, the visitors scoring 2 tries with
Bullock-Douglas and Hore ; Pollock converted
one. Before half-time a fine try by the
Victorian forward Bridle was converted by
Lawton, making scores 8-5. In the second
spell the home team threatened to run away
with the game, the forwards and backs put-
ting it all over the opposition for a time.
The All Blacks, however, came back gamely
and were fighting hard at the finish. The
hooking of Queenslander Bonis, which gave
his backs a monopoly of the ball from the
scrums, was a considerable factor in the All
Blacks’ defeat. In the ruck and loose the
home forwards had the better of it, but
M.L. held its own in the lineout. Bridle and
Cerutti played splendid all-round football in
the home vanguard, while Purdue, McLean
and Cottrell were up to the best All Black
traditions. Of the visiting backs Kilby and
Page disappointed; Caughey, a sterling
centre, Bullock-Douglas on the right wing
and Pollock at stand-off half were the best.
They had a formidable opposition to over-
come, and with that football genius Torn
Lawton leading it, their task at times
looked hopeless. King at inside centre hung
on too long, thus allowing Sturtridge on
the outside to be smothered time and again.
Nevertheless, the Victorian did some grand
work, especially in the second half. Cowper
made good use of his chances in the un-
familiar wing position, scoring one spec-
tacular try, while Malcolm at half did all
that was asked of him. Steggall at full-
back gave one of the best displays in the
position Sydney has seen for a long time.
On the day, he and Lawton divided honors.
White played a strong defensive game on
the right wing, but was not dangerous in
attack.
The team for the second Test in Bris-
bane might be improved. Cowper should come
back to his proper place at centre, vice
King, and the flying Queensland winger
McGhie should fill his place. The forwards
might well be left as they are.
Back from their North Queensland tour,
the English Rugby League team met Ipswich
and won 19-2 —5 tries and two goals
to a penalty goal. The usual box-on
occurred, one man from each side being
sent off. In the N.S.W. grade competitions
in Sydney, South Sydney scored a convinc-
ing win over Western Suburbs, though the
scores were close, 12-8. This puts South at
the head of the competition table. Other
results were: Eastern Suburbs 29, North
Sydney 9; Balmain 9, St. George 9 ; New-
town 16, University 9.
*
“Five Ways”: Why is it that when the
professional football teams from the North
of England visit this country to play the
League footballers of N.S.W. and Queens-
land the people in charge of them invariably
squeal about the local umpiring? Though
the tourists won their matches in Sydney,
the usual yelp went up, and the referee of
the first game was put aside in favor of
another for the second. After the beating in
Brisbane by Queensland, another complaint
was filed. When the visitors went down in
the second Test in Brisbane, the same old
whine was heard, the referee on that occa-
sion, J. Simpson, being specially attacked
by G. F. Hutchins, who is a manager of
the tourists, for the alleged errors he made
which resulted in a win for the Australians.
Post mortems have shown that the notorious
“shepherding” which resulted in a try by
Ellaby being disallowed by Simpson is
specially laid down as illegal in the North-
ern Union’s own rules.
* * * *
Melbourne’s League ’ball last week-end
was only attractive in spots. For a dozen
minutes' it looked as though the negligible
Fitzroy team might wallop unbeaten South
Melbourne on their own midden, and that
would have been a joyful circumstance. But
it was not to be, for the Red and Whites
won by 7 points—B2 to ’Roy’s 75. The
losers rattled South mainly by their pace
and clever manipulation for position; only
erratic kicking lost them the game. Out on
the Keilor-road Richmond Tigers used their
superior airwork to nullify Essendon’s speed
and largely kept the play a* they wanted
it —Richmond, 80 points ; ’Don, 42. Col-
lingwood, which for years has made a prac-
tice of piling up a huge score against North
Melbourne, continued the business and rested
with a tally of 126 points to North’s 87.
Carlton was never in danger from Foot-
scray’s Tricolors and totted up 75 points to
’Scray’s 51; Geelong being in much the same
case with Hawthorn —95 to the latter’s 54.
Melbourne achieved its first victory this
winter by downing St. Kilda with 85 points
to 74, but as the Saints have themselves
lost every game but one, the feat is nothing
to skite about.
❖❖* * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: Billy Cann, an
executive official of the N.S.W. Rugby
League, at a meeting of that body recently,
bitterly objected to one of the people travel-
ling as a “visitor” with the North of Eng-
land team of footballers, denouncing him
as a “poacher.” As everyone knows,
the English professional code, with rip
reserves of its own to draw on, has
to reinforce its ranks with people purchased
from the British Rugby Unions, or from
overseas sources. The strength of the Union
code in Britain is such that the field is a
barren one, though many of the present team
in Australia first made their reputation as
amateurs. Thus for some years past there lias
been a steady procession of N.S.W. and
Queensland professionals to the North of
England, where, at the expense of much hard
endeavor, they can live well. This leakage
has perturbed the Australian League autho-
rities. Until they do better by the gladiators
out of whom they make such tremendous
profits, it is likely to continue.
(Continued on next page.)
“Si Anu”: The latest victim of depresh
is the Calcutta Sweep. This princely gamble
collected £621,000 last year. It lias got down
to a miserly £146,000—£58,400 for tin-
winner. Competition from the Irish sweeps
is partially blamed for the falling-off, but
another factor is that tickets in the Calcutta
event are harder to obtain than they used
to be. A sweep that is little known in Aus-
tralia is the cable sweep. This was started
privately by a telegraph operator in Sierra
Leone, and spread over the network of cables
to every part of the world, from inindoti to
Buenos Aires. The promoter soon found it
almost a whole-time job and nis snorting
employers thoughtfully provided him with a
billet, more or less of a sinecure, in a remote
station, where he continued the good work.
Australia’s last hope in the Wimbledon
tennis finals, Hopmau, who played with
the Belgian Mdlle. Sigart in tile mixed
doubles, faded out when E. Maier, of Spain,
and Elizabeth Ryan, the Anglo-American,
won 7-5, 6-2. Ellsworth Vines beat Craw-
ford in straight sets; he did the same to
Austin in the final of the singles; but
America flopped in the women's doubles, in
which Mdlles. Metaxa (France) and Sigart
outed Elizabeth Ryan and Helen Jacobs
Helen Moody was undefeated —as usual.


MCA LIU MS
PERFECTION
SCOTS WM/SKY
Mgaaßafe&a
§?• 6/
s! :
»nj
0)
€ dip HI
ESTABLISHED 1807.
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years'reputation for
outstanding quality. It is ski'U
fully blended for
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
D. U. M'CAILUML T °
EDINBURGH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle,
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD.,
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Cairns.
F ootbrawl
. “Glenelg” : For some time past the rela-
tions between the Australian football heads
in Adelaide and Melbourne have been
strained. The latest pin-prick of which the
\\ heatlielders complain is the method adopted
by the Victorians to select the State team to
play in Adelaide. Two men are to be taken
from each League club, leaving many star
players to figure with their clubs in the Mel-
bourne competition games instead of visiting
Adelaide and helping to draw a good gate
for the locals. One critic comments that
South Australia will have a splendid chance
of giving Victoria a “jolt” and adds that
such a happening would “do a vast amount
of good to inter-State football.”
=!: :Js =!= *
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian Amateur Foot-
ball Association has resolved to adopt new
rules in regard to professionalism. The ques-
tion of reinstatement has always been a
source of trouble, and the new rules lay
down definite procedure for the future. All
professionals in any sport shall be on the
one footing if desiring to apply for admission
as amateurs. Applications will be exhaus-
tively considered by the permit committee,
and that bodv may recommend the reinstate-
ment within 12 months of any applicant, pro-
vided this is confirmed by a three-fourths
majority of the next fuli meeting of the
association. It will be remembered that
among those declared professionals last year
were Test cricketer a’Beckett and Ilassett, an
inter-State cricketer. Hassett has applied
for reinstatement.
He $ ❖ H*
“Thames”: A. E. Cooke, the veteran
Rugby Union player, who has represented
the All Blacks as a five-eighth in many
matches against British and Australian
teams, has gone over to the M.L. Rugby
League and will play with the Auckland
club. Cooke was one of the best in the
position M'aoriland has turned out., and was
a big success in Britain when the All Blacks
toured there in 1924-25. N.S.W. saw him in
1924, when the amateur code was confined to
N.S.W., and no matches against Australia
could be staged.
* . * * #
Like the English Leaguers, the All Blacks
are having bad luck in the matter of casual-
ties. Hart, their best winger, was incapa-
citated in M.L, before the side left for Aus-
tralia. Playing at Newcastle last week,
their giant forward, Max. received a foot
injury that, will probably keep him a pes-
senger for the rest of the tour. The Maori-
landers won the match easily enough by 44-
6. The tourists are due in Brisbane this
week-end, and will play four matches there,
including one Test at Brisbane on July 16,
and another against the Darling Downs at
Toowoomba. Back to Sydney for the third
Test on July 28, the tour will conclude with
a match against Western District at Welling-
ton (N.S.W.) on July 27.
* * * *
“Taniwlfa” : The Bledisloe Cup, presented
by the Governor-General of Maoriland for
Rugby Union competition between the All
Blacks and their Australian cobbers, has
recently arrived from England. Technically,
the pot is now the property of the All
Blacks, it having been promised before they
won the single Test at Auckland in 1931,
thanks to 4 penalty goals from the boot of
Bush, by 20-13. Its beer capacity is not
stated, a most important omission, but the
press description of it denotes a handsome
trophy engraved with Australian wattle
blossom and M.L. kowhai.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: There has been jubilation at
the headquarters of Australian tennis in
Melbourne over the good showing of the
Australian Davis Cup team at Wimbledon.
After the fiasco in America all indications
pointed to a financial loss on the tour. Now,
however, arrangements have been made for
our men to play against England in London,
and France in Paris. Again Czechoslovakia
and Germany are asking for visits, and these
should also help to build up a useful credit
, balance. It is possible, also, that the Aus-
tralians may return via America, playing
their way across the continent and bringing
back with them the promised American team
in time for the Australian season.
* * * *
“Roughouse Rufus”: Tennis, while admit-
tedly a good and interesting game, induces
a queer complex in its addicts. In read-
ing of a recent scene at Wimbledon, where
a player interrupted a game to comb his
hair —the combing was for swank and not
sanitary reasons, I should add—-I note that
the crowd merely “tittered.” Is there any
game on earth, save tennis, in which the
onlookers confine themselves to “tittering”
when something out of the common occurs?
You don’t hear titters; from the spectators
when they are at variance with the per-
formers in the ring at the Stadium. Far
from it. My dictionary says that to titter
is to giggle in “a polite and restrained
manner.” Well, the crowd I go with don’t
titter, so let’s leave it at. that.
“Amateur Pro.”: The reinstatement of
professionals as amateurs when their services
were badly needed has been a source of irri-
tation to the governing bodies of the game
who have not favored the practice. Italy
put the lid on the other day by whitewash-
ing Palmieri and promptly’ playing him in
its Davis Cup team. The annual meeting
of the Davis Cup delegates in London, with
Dwight Davis, donor of the Cup, presiding,
has said good-bye to all that. In future, no
player who has at any time forfeited his
amateur status will be eligible to play in
Davis Cup contests.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Appawamis” : Gene Sarazen set the seal
on his golfing fame by capturing the Ameri-
can open championship a month after win-
ning the British title. The feat is a rare
one, only Bobby Jones having equalled it.
A number of players have won both titles
in different seasons, among them being
Hagen and Vardon. As in the British' open,
Sarazen played wonderful golf, his card of
286 for the 72 holes including one round of
66 —the best recorded save one, amateur
Charles Evans setting up the same figures in
this event in 1916. The English ex-amateur
Perkins was bracketed second with Bobby
Cruickshank with scores of 289. Kirkwood
was right out of the hunt with a card of
305.
:Jc * * *
“Hoylake”: British golfers have been
discussing the case of Mark Seymour, an
English professional, who beat Alfred Padg-
liam, British professional champion, for the
coveted Roehampton Cup, which, as he has
won it twice in three years, now becomes his
property. Seymour, who has won the Scot-
tish and other notable championships, never
practises, thus exploding all the accepted
theories. On this occasion he had not had
a game for three weeks until the day before
the match’ for the Cup tourney. There may
be something in his theory. Most golfers of
ALL BLACKS IN ACTION.
Top (left to right): R. Clarke, F. Solomon, G. B. Purdue, A. Collins. Bottom: E.
Barry, G. D. Innes, H. T. Lilburne. B. Palmer.
average merit will admit that their game
is often much better on resuming after a
period away from the links, only to go off
gradually with regular play. The same is
the case in many games which are sup-
posed to call for practice.
ij: sis H* ❖
“Hamilton” : The women’s golf champion-
ships in Queensland drew big entries and
were a success from all points of view.
Playing faultless golf, Miss K. Dixon won
the singles from Mrs. L. Jones by 4 and
3, the 15 holes being negotiated in 63, a
record for associates in Queensland. The
winner is in her fifth season, but has only
taken the game seriously for the past three.
The foursomes provided another record, Mrs.
and Miss Gardiner, mother and daughter,
winning. The daughter, partnered by the
ex-Sydney player S. A. Keane, was also
successful in the mixed foursomes.
si: si: -f :S=
“Hiker”: A much-travelled caddie is
Jimmy Turney, a 19-year-old American.
Recently he crossed from New York to
Britain to caddy for Tommy Armour, who
lost his title to Gene Sarazen in the British
open championship. While in England he
also hoofed it from London to Devonshire
to carry for the American associate-golfer
Miss Hicks. He became something of a lion
in his way, and in an interview told a
London paper that during the previous year
he had travelled 14,090 miles by all sorts of
methods in America and Canada to watch
champion golfers at work.
* * * *
“Nark”: The amenities of golf outback are
sometimes rich and strange. There is a little
club at Humula in the Wagga (N.S.W.) dis-
trict which has just afforded an instance.
One of the members charged anothei' —an
associate —with stealing a ball. He said
that having played past the lady, who was
holding up the game, he encountered her
again on one of the greens. Informing him
that he was no Chesterfield in the matter
of courtesy to women on the links, the lady
picked up the pill which he was about to
putt, and announced her intention of keen-
ing it as “a souvenir of a perfect gentle-
man.” The beak wearily dismissed the
chai’ge with some comment on the triviality
of the whole performance.
* * *
“Brassey”: Those enterprising golfers who
have taken to steel-shafted clubs are begin-
ning to wonder whether they were justified
in deserting the faithful old hickory shafts.
Many players with the steel clubs have deve-
loped an affection of the left arm—whether
nervous or muscular is a matter for argu-
ment. The blame is laid on the greater jar
due to the steel shaft permitting lesser
torsion than the hickory when the ball is
struck. Two or three prominent golfing
quacks have emphatically endorsed the con-
tention that the steel has had the stated
effect, one or two of them speaking from per-
sonal experience. Perhaps the best argu-
ment against the steel shaft is that such a
master of the game as Walter Hagen has
stuck to the hickory after experimenting
with the steel. He found that the jar,
especially in divot-taking, was less with the
wood than with the metal, and for a man
playing golf seven days a week practically
the year round, that is an important con-
sideration.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: Nothing has been heard of
the ill-fated “Enterprise,” the car built in
Australia for a shot at the world’s speed
record in Maoriland, since the venture was
abandoned and the car, with its aeroplane
engine, returned to Australia. Whether the
attempt will be made again is uncertain. Fox-
one thing the Rolls-Royce engine is only on
loan from the Admiralty and cannot be kept
on this side of the world for ever. A pity if
the whole thing falls through. A famous
English expert, who has been studying the
design of the Australian-built chassis, has
recently given it as his opinion that Camp-
bell’s figures of 253.968 m.p.h. might be
equalled or bettered with it.
“Whizz” : Captain Irving, who designed the
“Golden Arrow,” in which Segrave
covered 231,36 m.p.h., has been discussing
the ; factors leading up to the speeds
Segrave and Malcolm Campbell were able
to attain. Irving holds that the suc-
cesses are due to the perfecting of super-
charged engines running at high revolutions.
This is evident from the fact that Campbell’s
Napier engine of 1500 h.p. develops three
times the power as the same type of 10 years
ago, while it is only two-thirds of the weight.
The Rolls-Royce Schneider Cup aero.-engine,
which Campbell will use at Daytona next
February in his attempt to hit up 300 m.p.h.,
will develop five times the horse-power for
the same weight, taking a similar standard
of comparison.
* * *
“Hotham”: That suggestion (B. S/6/’32)
that Australia might start things going in
the way of the motor-car rallies that are
now .so popular in Britain and the Conti-
nent is already being acted upon. A meet-
ing of Melbourne motorists was held last
week, and a tentative scheme was sketched
out for conducting an event. The suggestion
is that the rally should concentrate in Mel-
bourne in Cup Week, and routes radiating
from all parts of Australia will be plotted
if the scheme comes to fruition. One pro-
posal is that the distance limit be 1000 miles.
There is no' such limit for the Monte Carlo
rally, and anyone from Darwin or. .Gape
York, for instance, desiring to participate
would be cut out under such a restriction.
Jack Parsons, who died in Melbourne last
week at 56, was one of the stars of the big
cycling boom in the lS9o’s. Starting as an
amateur, he put up many notable perform-
ances before taking to the paid side of the
sport, and he was even more successful as a
track rider in that. His first great per-
formance as a pro. was his defeat of the
famous American rider Zimmerman over live
miles at Adelaide in 1895. Other stars of
his day were Joe Megson, Don Walker, the
Middletons, C. B. Kellow, well known in the
motoring and racing world to-day, and the
Maoriland champion Pither.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth” : English cricket got a darned
poor advertisement out of the solitary Test
against India. Jardine’s men won by 158
runs, but the excellent Indian bowling always
had them on the defensive. Sutcliffe and
Holmes failed in both innings, and Jar-
dine’s 79 and 85 n.o. must be accepted as
having saved the home side. The Indian
batting was not up to the bowling standard:
but English criticism of the home bowling
suggests bitterly that it was nlo fault of Bowes,
Voce, Robins and co. that the Indians were
dismissed so cheaply. And there was a general
expression of thankfulness that Indians like
Duleepsinhji and Pataudi did not turn out
with their countrymen. The prospects of the
English side in Australia next season are
already being reviewed in terms of absolute
defeatism.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Maoriland’s hockey team to tour
N.S.W. this month consists of 16 players
and a manager. The team is a young one
and none of the players lias been seen in
action in Australia before. The side will
take part in the Australian championships to
be played at Sydney in August, and the soli-
tary Test game against Australia is set down
for August 13. The championships begin on
August 6. Unless Westralia changes its mind
all the Autralian States save Tassy will be
represented at the big carnival. Uni. Oval
will probably be the venue of all the matches.
T * V S S» 'l'
“The Gaffer”: The tin-hare lias found a
counterpart in Britain in the shape of a
mechanical athlete which is being used for
training track-runners. The gadget, in the
shape of a man, is mounted on a mechanic-
ally-operated rubber-tyred wheel, and moves
round the outside of the running track at
whatever speed is desired. By keeping level
with the robot, the runner is able to judge
his pace to a nicety, while the thing also acts
as a pacemaker if necessary. The mechanical
ped. has been in constant use at Oxford this
season and is of special value to distance
runners, who rely specially on set pacing
with the idea of keeping a bit in hand for
the finishing sprint. The invention is said to
be incorruptible, but it would seem that a
handy man with a screw-driver might be able
to fix it to run a bye or two.


DOCTOR’S PRESCRIPTION
FOR RHEUMATISM
AND BACKACHE
Don t suffer the agony of backache, rheumatism, stiff,
swollen joints, etc. Let Harrison’s Pills help you
as they have thousands of one-time sufferers. Men
and women who had lost all hope of recovery write
eir thanks, after gaining quick, grateful relief
from Hamson’s Pills. This famous medicine,
bearing a noted London Doctor’s signature on even'
genuine package, drives out the cause of the pa ill
—the uric poisons in the system that are lowering
your vitality, sapping strength, and inducing crip-
pling pains and illness. Regain your early vigour
and elastic step. Take Harrison’s Pills to-
night. £lOO will be paid to anyone proving 1 thi*
is not a safe and effective remedy, bearing a London
1 octor s signature. Ask your chemist or storekeeper
now, while you think of it, for Harrison’s Pills
In ? lrow y°« will he well repaid. Three sizes:
18 pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/- ; or 68 pills, 5/-.
=^<c
©
E
ŝ
Even more luxurious even more charming Sydney’s
Australia, brilliantly redecorated m the modern manner*
NEW REDUCED TARIFF—ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Reduced Costs are reflected by a Reduced Tariff—but Quality and Service are
maintained at the same world-famous “Australia” standard.
A Single Room is to be had for 10/6 per day, with a Double Room costing only 20/-
per day. Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/-, and a la carte. Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
. . . .after all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’ ”
The Australia Hotcl
I The Hotel
i of the
C ommonwealth,
SYDNEY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Midway through last week the Town Hall
was turned into a glorified woolshed, and
1500 dyed-in-the-wool Australians turned up
to give our greatest primary industry a boost
—-turned up complete with hampers. One
trio, it is true, arrived at the top of the
steps to realise that the vanishing taxi was
carrying off their supper, and 'another hos-
tess was heard tearfully explaining to her
guests that the shop she had ordered their
eatables from was closed for the night when
she had reached its door. This Woolshed
Ball, you will gather, was of the picnic-
supper variety which these depression times
arc making so popular; perhaps, too, the
current lack of formality has helped tip the
scales.
The atmosphere was woolly from the vesti-
bule onward. Under the big chandelier were
bales of golden fleece; further on were pens
with shearing-machines, golden-horned rams
stood on mountains of fine merino, and the
door leading into the ballroom was an arch
of wool gay with colored lights. The gallery
pillars, almost hidden with gum saplings, were
looped and garlanded with wool; and the
fence surrounding the orchestra pen looked
as though it had been out in a blizzard. In
keeping with their surroundings, the com-
mittee-women wore white wool-wigs; and
the vice-regal table was set in fat-sheep
country with shearers’ huts and gums and
all. All, that is to say, except the mort-
gage.
Lady Isaacs, who motored from Canberra
for the dance, wore, oyster satins' lit up with
diamonds and pearls, and Lady Game’s rose
satin had a caped coat to match. The
Mayoress was in flame chiffons, gold- and
silver-embossed. Mrs. Matt Sawyer, presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Country Women, chose
black flat crepe; Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
president of the Harborside branch, wore
petunia wool laces, with a shoulder-drape
effect; Mrs. Colin Venn, secretary of the
dance, came in black ring velvet, and Helen
Campbell, who assisted her, wore one of the
prettiest frocks in the room—of ivory chiffon,
with a pleated shoulder cape.
The proceeds go to the Outback Hospitals
and other welfare activities of the Country
Women’s Association.
The biggest house the opera lias known
greeted the final performance. Not a, vacant
seat anywhere; people on the steps of the
circle, people standing six-deep at the back
of both circle and stalls. No grumbling, all
excitement, bursting into prolonged cheers
for Valobra, for Granforte and for Mirassau
when the curtain, fell on “Pagliacci.” More
cheers when all the stai-s were on the stage.
Then everybody else got a cheer, and E. J.
Tait’s remarks brought one for the pro-
moters. Not to be outdone, George Nassoor
and S. E. Chatterton spoke in glowing terms
of the J. C. W. Co. Claude Kingston’s name
was mentioned here. Another cheer; another
one for Rossi; one for Wando Aldrovaudi,
and one also for Australian conductor
Joseph Post; then one for Signor Folli, the
first-named and the last-named not there to
make acknowledgment in person. Rossi was
busy in Melbourne; poor Folli, who had en-
deared himself to all, audiences, chorus and
stars alike, had had a heart attack at six
o’clock that evening. Then there was a call
for the Australian chorus, and these, too,
had to come before the lights.
Valobra’s poor flowers seemed as if they
would get crushed and crumpled to pieces.
Vivid and joyous in her Columbine’s cos-
tume, she hugged the doll that had been
handed up to her. Surani and Paliughi
in black, Castagna in “Carmen” red,
Angelau graceful in royal-blue satins, Fiore
and the others —all beamed when someone
from the audience called for a cheer for the
imported artists. Then the band struck up
“God Save.” But' who wanted to go home?
Little groups gathered at top and bottom of
stairs, and many finished up the night at the
Woolshed Ball.
Molly de Gunst and Nora Hill arc still
blushing over the things that were said at
the party given in their honor at the Went-
worth by the committee of St. Margaret’s.
The guests, who were received by Josephine
Marks, were formally welcomed by E. G.
Theodore, while Mrs.’ Arthur McNiven pre-
sented them with armfuls of fragrant pink
and red roses. T. J. Smith, who comes
from the same part of Ireland as Nora Hill,
also had something to say, part of it in
Gaelic, which only Nora understood. George
Fitzpatrick didn't say much, but he and May
Sheehan and Nelle Waters looked to the
comfort of the company, among whom were
Mrs. Walter Kingsmill and Mrs. Theodore
and daughter Monica.
At St. Vincent’s Ball, held at David
Jones’s, Mrs. John McKelvey carried off
the first prize for the prettiest white frock,
and Sheila McMahon for the prettiest black.
Mrs. McKelvey’s was of angel skin, its grace-
ful flounces ending in a bustle effect, and
white velvet roses bordered its neckline. She
wore red velvet sandals and carried a red
chiffon handkerchief. Sheila McMahon’s
black tailored chiffons had a diamente-
studded bodice. Mrs. T. H. Kelly, president
of the dance committee, and the Mayoress
presented the prizes, Mrs. Kelly in jade-
green brocaded lame, trailing green chiffon
shoulder-wings, the Mayoress in black tulle.
Treasurer Miss Kate Egan’s wedgwood-blue
taffetas were silver-embroidered, and secre-
tary Mi’s. P. O’Halloran’s black chiffons
were worn with a gold lame and velvet coat.
Her co-worker Mrs. Dan Carroll was in a
black velvet backless gown.
At the second annual dinner of the Bed
Cross H.Q. Younger Set, held at Hordern
Bros.’, president Dorothy Wormall handed
over a cheque for £BO to the Mayoress, at
the same time telling her that £5O had been
put in a stocking to start a club of their
own. The Mayor and Mayoress both con-
gratulated the girls on their work, and
the former toasted Dorothy. Other guests
at the party were Mrs. James Macarthur
Onslow and R. J. Ilawkes, chairman of the
N.S.W. division of the Red Cross.
Mrs. Lyons Avas the guest of the Arts
Club at a luncheon last week, and the
U.A.P. Women’s Club gai'c a reception in
her honor at its rooms in Bligh-street; and
at each gathering she made many friends.
On behalf of the U.A.P.’s the words
of welcome were said by Mrs. T. R.
Bavin, and Miss Preston Stanley, and
soon Mrs. Lyons had everyone laugh-
ing at her humorous references to her
job as wife _ and mother. Naturally in
such a gathering the question of women’s
place in politics cropped up. and here. too.
Mrs. Lyons got a laugh when she told of
some of her experiences Avhen she stood for
Parliament. Mrs. Laverty presided.
The Colonel McColls ha\ r e been guests
at many farewells, the largest of them given
at Victoria Barracks by the staff corps offi-
cers and their wives. This party was held
in the reception rooms of the officers’ mess
and on the verandahs, and here Brig.-Gen.
and Mrs. Heritage received the guests. Col.
McColl follows that other popular Sydney
officer Colonel Cox-Taylor as State Com-
mandant in the Speck.
The Medical School at Sydney University
will soon be equipped with one of the best
libraries of its time if the constant efforts
of a group of enthusiastic women—mostly
doctors’ wives,
mothers an and
sisters meet
with deserved
reward. This
year, again,
the Sydney
U n i v e r s ity
Medical
School Bali,
to ensure more
books for the
library-shelves,
promises to be
one of the
winter suc-
cesses. The
pu b licity is
being handled
by Mrs. C. G.
Lambic, the
subject of this
Monte Luke
picture (her
husband is the
Professor of Medicine), Mrs. O- G. Berge and
Mrs. Anderson-Stuart. The date of the ball
is July 15, the place David Jones’s.
Beatrice Kelly, whose engagement took
place at Wirian, which her parents are rent-
ing from the O. E. Friends, on Saturday, only
came back to Australia from Florence with
her brilliant mother a few months ago. She
is the eldest of the Bertie Kelly family, and
was born at the big liarborside place which
her grandfather built, and which the
Bruntons subsequently bought and renamed
Gladswood. The exhibition of her pictures
which she held in Sydney last month was
a great success, and as she is also an archi-
tect, who specialises in the domestic side of
her profession, the young man should have
an entirely satisfactory home. He is John
Macphillamy, son of the sporting Bathurst
solicitor and racehorse owner. Uke so many
members of his large family he is a squatter,
with a property not far from his native
town. One of his handsome sisters married
Captain Glo'ssop, R.N., who commanded the
Sydney when she sank the Enulen, and the
other is the wife of the seventh Baron
Abinger. She married him when he was
an A.D.C. to Sir William Macgregor in
Queensland, and he succeeded to the title
five years ago.
There was an extra-large attendance when
the whistle blew for the ninth annual ball
of the Rugby Union; the All Blacks were
there, as well as Vie. and Queensland players,
and the tables at the Blaxland Galleries
sported the silver fern of the Enzeds and
the green and gold of the All-Australia team.
There wag a good deal of visiting from table
to table, and much popping of corks even
during dances; a surprising scarcity of girls
meant that the Sydney boys stood aside so
that the visitors might have every dance.
Mrs. J. 11. Palfreyman, president of the
organising committee, hostessed the official
party, in black lace; with her were M.L.
Government Commissioner C. Schmitt and
Mrs. Schmitt, the latter in black chiffons,
and Chairman of the Bugby Union 11. D.
Wood and Miss Wood, whose ivory romaines
were worn with a skunk-bordered cape; also
the captain and vice-captain of the All
Blacks, and Tom Lawton, captain of Aus-
tralia.
This picture, by Dayne, shows Mrs. W.
D. Iv. Macgillivray, who manages the Far
West Health
Scheme in
Broken Hill.
Although in
existence for
only eight
months, the
local branch
has dug out
69 apparently
hopeless cases
from their
hiding places
in the real
Outback, ex-
tending from
Broken Hill to
the Queens-
1a n and border
andd o w n
along the Dar-
ling, and sent
them to Syd-
ney for re-
building. Dur-
mg the eight months £456 has been gathered
for the scheme —not much in itself, but it
took hard and patient work to get it from
a city which is more than half on the dole
or some other form of relief. When not
attending to the Far West business Mrs.
Macgilliyray makes life more comfortable for
her. busy medico-husband. He is a noted
ornithologist, and she knows something
about that, too! She has been with him on
many of his expeditions. She was a school-
teacher before her marriage.
Charles Lloyd Jones, chairman of the
commission which took control of “A”
broadcasting stations, on Friday, wouldn’t
make many mistakes if the stations put pic-
tures over the air. Sydney has few
better judges and no more constant patron
of art shows. Art has been his hobby all
his life, and he put a lot of both time and
money into “Art in Australia.” But cir-
cumstances called him to the old David
Jones family business—he is a grandson of
the original D.J. —and he lias found his
pleasure in showing how well art and busi-
ness can run together in double harness. He
was a shrewd judge who chose Charley
Lloyd Jones as chairman of this commission.
For the future there are to be national
stations —those which the commission will
provide with programmes—and trading
stations. The former will not put any adver-
tising oyer the air; the latter will live by
it. With Mr. Jones in Sydney will be
associated Arundel Orchard, chief of the
Conservatorium of Music; and one of the
goals before them is a national orchestra.
Meantime the trading stations are likely
to multiply: the Fullers and other enter-
tainers have it in their minds to set up
stations of theil- own, looking to trade
announcements to pay the running exes, and
help with the salaries of their artists.
That Grace Hart knows something about
dressing as well as acting was definitely
shown on Saturday, when as Greda she
appeared at the Savoy in The Independents’
production of Noel Coward’s “The Young-
Idea.” Her first frock of lipstick-red cordu-
roy was worn with a tight-fitting black felt
hat. The gold on her sandals brightened up
her black taffeta evening dress. Here the
individual touch was the ruched neckline
and the broad ruching that bordered the edge
of her bustled long skirt. Smartness was in
every line of the lime costume which she
wore in the third act. This was double-
breasted and brass-buttoned, the gauntlet
cuffs of a dark shade of brown matching the
wearer’s suede shoes and small jaunty hat.
Polo at Cobbity provides the completest
possible exposition of what the depresh has
done to Sydney society. There was hardly
an Osborne or Dangar in last Saturday’s
big gathering. Almost the only country
family of old standing that was adequately
represented was the Onslow clan, whose
members live near by, and get most of their
revenue from tlie city in the form of milk-
and rent-cheques. There were more smartly-
dressed matrons and flappers watching the
carnival than Kensington ever saw in its
palmiest days, but all tlie nicest frocks and
most splendiferous cars belonged to people
who had made their money in business,
trade or one of the professions. With wool
at; its present price those whose incomes are
solely derived from wool simply can’t play
polo ; they can’t play anything. "
From a girl in London: —
The Rev. the Earl of Devon was one of three
clerical locksmiths who attended to the wedding of
James lan Blomfield Dickson, of Sydney, and the
late Arthur Bourchier’s only daughter, Prudence;
her mother, Violet Vanbrugh, was at the ceremony.
Others present: Commander Alistair Davison, R.N.,
best man; Sir Hugh Burnes, bride’s uncle, who gave
her away, in a pink-and-white satin train. Many
good Australians looked on, including the Rvries;
among others there were Violet Duchess of Rutland,
Sybil Countess Brassey, Catherine Countess of West-
moreland, with Lilian Braithwaite, Mrs. Dion Bouci-
cault, Jean Forbes-Robertson, and Mrs. Seymour
Hicks. They had a beautiful day for it—for heat
almost a midsummer’s day at Booligal. By the way,
the Earl who helped at the wedding is one of the
richest priests of the English church; he lives in
a beautiful old castle outside Exeter, and there is
no countess to share it with him.
Queensland queues up :
The Governor and Lady Wilson made their debut
at Ascot races. Lady Wilson wore Harris tweed and
a brown velours cloche, and thrush-brown was worn
by her daughter; Mrs. C. A. Morris chose navy and
white; Mrs. Cadell Garrick was in black. The
party were entertained at lunch in the committee-
room, where the Governor’s racing colors, dark blue
and silver, were part of the decorations.
The R.S.S.I.L. g’ave a glad hand to his JEx. in
the South Brisbane Town Hall, when Sir Leslie
mentioned that he wasn’t a soldier but a marine.
Another greeting for the new arrivals came from
the Masons. President W. Beestou and his daughter
Mavis received. Miss Wilson —her mother was unable
to be present—wore white cobweb lace.
The Governor and Lady Wilson went with their
daughter to the Limbless Soldiers’ Ball in the City
Hall. The Mayor and Mayoress received them. Her
Ex. was wearing amethyst chiffon velvet and a
gold-brocaided cloak; Miss Wilson, ivory satin;
Edith Barry presented a period dance, the girls
wearing rose pink taffetas with powder blue sashes;
Minty Barry and Vernon O’Brien did a modern
waltz against a chain formed by the old-world
dancers. Flags and flowers made the decorations,
and a bowl of white and crimson roses adorned
the vice-regal alcoves.
Gordon Amos, the well-known cricketer, married
Lorna Walsh in St. Ann’s Presbyterian Kirk,
Brisbane. The bride, who was given away by her
brother, was in ivory satin with a girdle of pearls
and Brussels-lace veil; her shower bouquet was of
red roses and Eucharist lilies. Miss E. Mason ’maided
in shell-pink georgette and lace ; Noela Edwards and
Margot Amos were flower girls in period frocks of
shell-pink. The feast was at the Amos home at
Nundah.
To help the Brisbane Ambulance, Nell Douglas
Graham produced Galsworthy’s “The Little Dream”
at Cremorne. Moya Connolly arranged the dances
and also played the part of Seelchen. Mollie Gordon
was the “Youth of the Wine-horn,” Nell Douglas
Graham was the Gypsy Queen, and Phyllis Danaher
arranged the ballet.
The joybells have rung for Lola Mary Leonard
and Samuel Archibald Glasgow. The ’groom
comes from Goomeri, and the bride is the only
daughter of the P. C. Leonards, of Cloncurry. The
vows were blessed in St. John’s Cathedral by
Bishop Dixon. Congratulations were received in the
Gold Room of the Carlton: this was decked with
yellow roses, and bride’s mother, Mrs. P. C.
Leonard, who wore clinging black georgettes, carried
in contrast a posy of red roses.
Queensland Press Institute has its first woman
president who is president, too, of the Lyceum
Club. Mrs. Young came to Queensland as a small
girl, and after some years spent at school became
a teacher, turning presently from that to the press:
for lo years was in charge of the women’s and
children’s columns on the “Courier” and “Queens-
lander.” At present she is head of the Women’s
Hoik Department, which includes the Domestic
Science section of the Brisbane Tech.


WOODS'«ut
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
fOR THE CONVALESCENT
MMY
ntioniTiSH DRUG; **
gsr=a
1114
un
RADIANT HEALTH.
AFTER ILLNESS...
You need a revitalising tonic
to help you to shake off that
feeling of languor.
A daily spoonful of Radio-
Malt will give the needed
fillip to your jaded appetite;
it will build up your energy
and restore that zest for life
which comes from
qAII leading
chemists sell
RADIO-MALT
in Jars of two
convenient
sizes
RADIO-HALT
THE VITAMIN MALT FOOD
If your chemist does not stock Radio-Malt, write to
THE BRITISH DRUG HOUSES (Australia) LTD., 250 Pitt St., Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
On Saturday morning at Flemington one
heard a chorus of “Wliat a marvellous day
for the Grand National Hurdle !” but by lun-
cheon-time the wind was like a serpent’s
tooth. Furs were the only coverings to keep
it out, and women settled their necks in their
collars when turning up the lynx, sable,
ermine and what not about their ears. Squir-
rel, mink and kolinsky led in the long coats.
The dressing was in no way dull, a dash
of color being often introduced in many
fashions. For instance, a radiantly green,
blue or red hat lifted a black ensemble to
positive hilarity; gaily striped or spotted
scarves did the same for other sombre get-
ups, while big posies of violets, daphne and
carnations, and mixed shoulder sprays of
orchids and other blooms were pinned in
coats and suits galore, There was nothing
very new except the colored kid gloves that
appeared in almost every shade.
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine lunched with
the committee, but the v.-r. pen was mostly
deserted. Among the visitors from the coun-
tryside were Mr. and Mrs. Twomey, of
Langulac, Penshurst, she wearing a suit of
navy blue with matching hat; Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Dunne, of Warrnambool; Mrs. E.
Tliornley and her two daughters; the
William Ardlie couple, of Warrnambool; and
Mrs. A. McLean, of Maffra. Knight Harry
Chauvel was there with his lady, in fawn
cloth ensemble and darker tone of felt hat.
Rear-Admiral Hyde escorted his wife, a study
in chocolate-brown in upholstery and mil-
linery ; Mrs. J. C. Westlioven was accom-
panied by Mrs. J. Little, of the Harbor City;
Mrs. R, G. Casey, Mrs. Alan Currie, the
Lauchlan Mackinnon couple, Mrs. C. R.
Cowper and her sister Miss Nyulasy were
others in the crowd in the members’ stand.
Mrs. Charlie Lyon caught the eye in magpie
tones; Mrs. H‘. Creswick topped a beaver
coat with a powder-blue felt hat; Jacqueline
Mackinnon, from the Murray, was smartly
turned out in dark green suit and hat, with
a necklace of huge lime-colored beads.
The Royal was crammed for the premiere
of the Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co
on Saturday night, and many were glad ot
standing-room at the back of the d.c. (there
was some disappointment when it was known
that Anna Suraui and Pedro Mirassou had
fallen victims to colds; but the unexpected
appearance of Queensland’s Molly de Gunst
had a thrill of its own and the enthusiasm for
her increased as the performance went on.
Bruna Castagna established herself m favor
right away. Without being tall she managed
to look a very regal lady in one wonderful
pale green robe with a golden brocade train
and a head-dress of many high waving green
plumes. There was a great re-welcome for
Apollo Granforte, the king of the Ethiopians.
The Firm has staged the opera beautifully,
some lovely lighting effects being introduced.
The ballet in the scene where Radames
returns victorious from battle is a real de-
light in blending of shades. Some of the
girls wear lily-green diaphanous robes, and
the rest of the dancers are in pale amber
with a dash of dark brown; into their midst
flits a little lass whose sparse covering is
flame tint. Some lovely types of woman-
hood were handmaidens to Amnens. hew
people noticed the discrepancy of the prin-
cipals singing in Italian while a chorus of
Australians warbled in English, which sug-
gests that nothing matters much in grand
opera. There were many curtain calls, with
flowers galore for the two prima donnas and
laurel wreaths for other principals.
The huge audience had a full complement
of white sliirt-fronts and evening suits, furs
and brocades. White coats as usual were
first on the list, and there were black velvet
coverings with great fluffy white collars.
Quite unostentatiously John Brownlee
slipped into the r.s. with his wife —even
the gallery missed the baritone. Mrs.
Brownlee looked attractive in a pale green
gown covered with a moss-green velvet coat.
Near them were Mr. and Mrs. Jim Fair-
bairn, the William Seymour couple and Mr.
and Mrs. Harry Whiting, she wearing a
dull gold lame coat with sable collar. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme and Mrs. Godfrey were among
those in the d.-c., also Mr. and Mrs. Clarence
Marriott, Dr. Leon Jona and his two
daughters, Dr. Constance Ellis and Mrs.
Frank Brennan, Mrs. P. Lucini and the T.
V. Millea couple. Mr. and Mrs. John Tait,
the Charlie Taits and some others of the
Firm were in the boxes.
There was a big muster in the Town Hall
for John Brownlee’s first concert here.
Though the building is centrally heated no
risks were taken; there were but few bare
shoulders or spines on view, and those who
did wear party frocks kept the collars of
fur coats well turned up. The operatic star
has put on a bit of weight and a shade of
breadth, but his smile seems likely to dead-
heat for permanency with that of the
Duchess of York.
Rita Miller, the supporting artist,, also
a returnee after several years abroad,
got an equally warm reception. She has
developed in personality and artistry, and
made an effective entrance in a crinolined
gown of the finest white silk muslin with
triple flounces edged with lovely point lace
sprinkled with tiny glistening pailettes. The
flowers she was handed made a garden of
the stage for the greater part of the evening.
There were many Geelong folk present. The
baritone’s parents brought their three daugh-
ters, and Mr. R. McKenzie and Mrs T.
Hawkes were there. Others noticed were
Mrs Fred Thiel, the Herbert Brookes
couple and Miss Deakin, Mr. and Mrs II
Gill and Mrs, R. G. Casey, sen. The accom-
panist and solo pianist, Roy Shepherd, is a
Melbournite, a Clarke Scholarship winner,
not long back from the other side of the
world.
After the concert there was a jolly supper
party and dance in honor of Mr. and Mrs.
John Brownlee and Rita Miller, given at
Grong Grong, Toorak-road, by Mr. and Mrs.
T. Smith. It was a very happy informal
gathering, with cheery greeting of glowing
fires in the reception rooms and ballroom.
Mrs. Smith wore a trained gown of black
silk embroidered with a gold and silver leaf.
Mr. Smith and his son-in-law, Flight-Cap-
tain Gadsden, wero in the offing to see that
everyone had a good time, and the welcome-
home toast to the trio was proposed by the
host.
At Scots Church last week Helen, second
daughter of Mrs. Basil Murray, of Perth,
murmured “I will” to James Leith Gilles-
pie, younger son of J. A. Gillespie, South
Yarra. The bride’s gown was of lobelia-
blue georgette with felt millinery of the
same hue, her posy being an artistic con-
trast of deep red roses. Anne Jewell, also
from the West, ’maided in frock of russet-
tint with hat of darker tone. The bride’s
uncle, Noel Murray, gave her away, and Mrs.
Murray hostessed a gathering of a few
friends at the Occidental Hotel after the
ceremony.
Kathleen, a daughter of the C. J. Ahern
couple, of South Yarra, waved farewell to
Melbourne from the deck of the Otranto
during the week, bound for London to wed
Flight-Lieutenant Denny. The bridegroom-
elect was on the personal staff of Lord
Somers, our recent State Governor, and
piloted Lady Somers on many of her flying
expeditions. There was a good-bye five
o’clock party on the eve of Miss Ahern’s
departure, hostessed by Rosemary Hayne, at
Shipley House.
St. Anthony’s Home for Little Children
will reap a substantial cheque from the
matinee at the Athenaeum Theatre, gener-
ously given for the purpose by Frank Talbot.
The organising committee included many well-
known charity workers, notably Mrs. Merson
Cooper (president), Mrs. Charles Hicks,
Mrs. D. P. Mackey, Mrs. Bernard Nolan
and Marie de Bavay. Mrs. James Dwyer
had a bevy of assistants at the flower stall,
and so had Mrs. Davis at the sweets counter,
and Mrs. P. J. Power at the gifts depart-
ment.
Among the artists who dropped in to do
their bit was Mr. Lewis Casson, who gave
Clifford Harrison’s “Carcassone,’’ Austin
Dobson’s “On a Battlefield” and Villon’s
“If I Were King.” Gladys Moncrieff, in
brown satin frock and the same shade of
top-coat, stayed just long enough to warble
“My Hero” and another favorite number
before appearing at the Capitol. Paulyne
Bindley lifted her voice in “Follie, Follie,”
from “La Traviata,” and an elaborate little
number from a new' Puccini opera. She was
all in pale pink tulle and pink satin. There
was a welcome for Ada Reeve, who is doing
some short talkies in Melbourne; in uphols-
tery of beige-pink lace she gave a special
request item, “Ain’t Yer, Jim?” Mona
Zeppel and Eric Bush introduced some
graceful dancing, and Jack OTlagan and
Robert Molyneaux were highly successful in
their duet on Mr. Lang and Colonel Campbell.
The Athenaeum Orchestra filled in the inter-
ludes, and the talkie “The Chance of a
Night _ Time” was supplied by British
Dominions Films, Ltd. Among those present
were the Argyle lady, her daughter Mrs.
Hill, the Gavan Duffy lady, Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, Miss F. McPherson, Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, Mrs.
Clarence Marriott, Mrs. W. R. Burston and
Mrs. Esmond Downey.
Here is Hjordis L. Nilsson, whose sing-
ing of Swedish folk-songs was a feature of the
recent Scan-
dinavian show.
With a mezzo-
soprano voice
of good range
and a warm
tone, she has
been a pupil
of her fellow-
countrywoman
Madame J an-
son, who a
few vears ago
was a star
singer herself
here in grand
opera as Agnes
Janson. Miss
Nilsson came
t o Australia
when she was
a small child.
She is here
seen in the
cost ume of
Bohustau, which is the district of which
Gothenburg is the centre. The skirt and
corsetlet are bright red, with a white blouse
and a dark green apron, and the 'kerchief-
like head-dress is the faintest blue. Sister
Eivor, who played the accompaniments,
wore the same very becoming dress, which
set off the pink and white complexion and
corn-colored hair of the sisters.
The other day somebody with £lOOO to
spare selected the Big Brother Movement
as a worthy beneficiary. He insisted on re-
maining anonymous, requesting Sybil Thorn-
dike by telephone to give the cheque to
Richard Linton, M.L.A., the founder here of
the 8.8. M., at that day’s matinee of “Joan
of Arc.” Miss. Thorndike was in the act of
transforming her features into those of the
Maid of Orleans when the request came; she
promptly wrapped herself in a warm dress-
ing-gown and executed the commission pub-
licly before the curtain rose.
The round of civic balls is .in full swing.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Fitzroy, Cr.
and Mrs. E. T. Apps, had the pleasure of
welcoming nine other Mayors and their
womenfolk at the annual dance, and all the
burgomasters! were brave in robes and
chains. The local town hall put out a
gay awning and fairy lights twinkled amid
the palms about the front lawns. The hos-
tess wore a black chiffon velvet gown, cor-
sage bordered with rhinestones and spray
of orchids. White fur coats were much in
evidence, quite outnumbering velvet coatees.
Orchids, both genuine and artificial, were
immensely popular for shoulder decoration,
and . there were some beautiful satin frocks
of simple graceful line. Town Clerk Honey-
combe was there with his wife, whose drap-
eries of deep blue lace were topped by a
white fur wrap. Mrs. Peter Lucini, who
wore a black lace gown, was accompanied
by her daughters Amy and Rosa, Briga-
dier-General J. C. Stewart and Mrs.
Stewart were present, she with sparkle of
diamente upon her black gown. Dr. J. A.
Cahill brought liis wife in draperies of rust-
colored lace; with them was Dorothy
Morton, of Seymour, in white satin frock
and a pink coatee. Mr. and Mi's. Warren
Kerr, Mrs. S. Stutt, Mrs. Mayer, Colonel
and Mrs. W. Farr and Dr. and Mrs. F. G.
Raphael were others among the hundreds of
guests.
This is pretty Sylvia Lawrance, who
became Mrs. David Syme on June 30. The
bri d e, wh o
trailed white
chiffon velvet
and Limerick
lace up the
aisle of St.
John’s, To o-
rak, is the
eldest daugh-
ter of Mrs. Neil
Lawrance, of
K i ii n o u 11,
Heyingt on,
and the late
Mr. N. Law-
rance, of Mel-
bourne. The
fo u r brides-
maids also
wore white
velvet gowns
cut in Empire
inode with' a
touch of yel-
low, and car-
ried sheaves of daffodils. Three children,
also in white velvet, guarded the bride’s
draperies. The photo, is by Broothorn.
The wedding of Major Edric Ilenty and
Betty Wilkinson is fixed for August 8 at
Scots Church. The bride will have a retinue
of six maids.
Perth’s packet:—
Josef Szigeti gave four triumphant concerts in this
city. The master fiddler has perfect stage manners.
His bow is gracious but unsmiling and he. takes
no encores until the end of the programme. Among
first-nighters, were the Ross couple, golden-voiced
Gertrude Hutton, a sprinkling of Bunnings and
Vincents, Kittie Gillies, Mrs. Doy Forrest and her
marvellous white foxes, and Mrs. Fred Piesse.
Architectural students gave their imaginations an
extra length of rope for their dance in Temple
Court. A skit on Wool Week introduced a tricycle
bearing the “Wool King,” with his “Wool Babies”
on scooters and the Lud Mayor with his chain of
Frankfurts. There were posters depicting a woeful
soul who surfed in cotton bathers. Among the
dancers, Mrs, Reg Sumriierhayes was attractive as
ever in her melting chiffons of black and shell-pink ;
Mrs. G. W. Simpson allied black satin and lace;
Miss Macartney was in ruby-red velvet; Betty Merry-
weather rustled white taffetas pricked with pink;
vivacious Grace Stapledon wore clinging laces in
water-lily greens; white organdie, puff-sleeved and
ribboned with black velvet, was chosen by brunette
Alice Biggs; Olaire Holm wore flowered ninon;
Cecile Scott’s ivory satins were touched with pink;
Kitty Macartney favored lilac and Greta Cockram
beige laces.
Margie Tindale had a coming-of-age birthday party
for which her parents thought out some original
ideas. There was a picture party at the Capitol
with birthday greetings flashed upon the screen. At
the Palace more congratulations were waved from
a painted banner over the doorway. A symbolic
key was presented among a bunch of speeches, and
a big frosted cake looked too good to cut under
its forest of candles.
All roads led to York for the long week-end.
Cocktails were mixed on the racecourse, with Morris
Edwards as one of the day’s bright sparks. In
the gymkhana for girl riders Mrs. Reid Parker
(Deborah Clarkson that was) galloped off with all
the trophies. Mrs. Morris Edwards was prominent
upon the grandstand in her nut-brown suit, with a
dash of flame velvet in her millinery; daughter
Elizabeth aired Air Force blue and a wee hat;
Barbara Monger stuck to black for her frock and
headgear; a little red feather was tilted above Mrs.
Reid Parker’s green ensemble when she walked up
to receive her prizes; Mrs. Kendall did her punting
in browny tweeds; Mary Padbury kept the rain
and wind off her red frock with a fur coat. Mrs.
Richard Hardy was there with daughter Gretchen;
Jean Loton, Hilda and Eileen Lee Steere, members
of the Lefroy, Clarkson and Durack clans, and a
veritable swarm of metropolitan doctors and their
better halves were noticed in the assemblage.
The Wattle Ball, an annual Claremont fixture,
was held this year in the Princess Hall, all prinked
up with apple blossom, wattle shedding its golden
glow only upon the supper tables. Mrs. Baker
gave an eye to the proceedings in mist-grey chiffons,
including a little coat and a spray of dewy flowers ;
daughter Dorothy’s pink angel’s skin extended itself
to a coatee; Jean Lang wore floating ninon patterned
with russet tones; blue and gold made brocaded
patterning upon Nell Newman’s garment; Pat Ahern
was striking in her ivory romaine; Rosalie Hodge’s
cornflower-blue was embellished with rose-pink bows
and rows of frills were twirled upon Julie Harris’s
turquoise taffetas.
Adelaide annals :
There was a crowded attendance at the Adelaide
Uni. annual ball held in the refectory, and dancing
until 3 a.m. established a record, a tribute to the
inspiring playing of Tom King. The supper deco-
rations were unique: black bowls filled with scarlet
geraniums and black candlesticks. The ballroom was
a study in tango tones. Professor Campbell and
Dr. Helen Mayo received and 42 debs, were presented
to his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven. Chancellor
George Murray was not present, but vice-chancellor
William Mitchell came with the vice-regals. Mr.
Legh Winser was in attendance, and Mr. and Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith were of the party. Miss Margaret
Corpe, one of the debs., is a grand-niece of the
late knight Walter Hughes, who founded the Uni-
versity.
The wedding of Patricia Bruce, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Bruce, to Norman Napier, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Napier Birks, was the social event
of the week. It took place at St. Peter’s College,
with the reception afterwards at the home of the
bride’s parents, Barton-terrace, North Adelaide. The
bridegroom is a prominent member of the Aero
Club, so ’planes fluttered round the church and at
the reception, and on the departure of the couple
by the Westralia for Sydney. Captain H. C. Miller
was best man. The bride looked very charming in
a beautifully-cut white satin frock, with tulle veil;
her three bridesmaids were in emerald green velvet,
with Juliet caps of green velvet ribbon and wreaths
of lilies of the valley. Mi's. C. S. Toms and girl
friends had decorated the church with lilies. The
wedding tea was in a marquee massed with poin-
settia.
At Adelaide Hunt Club ball on Thursday at
the Palais Royal, hunting costume will be worn for
the two sets of lancers that are always featured
upon this occasion. The ladies will dance in white
satin skirts and scarlet eoats, with hair poudre.
The Light Horse organised a most successful dance
at the Palais Royal on Thursday night in aid of
the Angorichina Hostel. Lady Hore-Ruthven was
there, with Captain C. H. Williamson in attendance.
Her Ex. was gowned in black ring velvet, with
small cape of the same.


ocean
to
■*>
AB
;
*
ko.n
\-
MARIPOSA VMONTE REY'
JVext
Sailings
from Sydney
MARIPOSA
July 30 th
MONTEREY
August 27th
from Melbourne
MARIPOSA
July 26th
MONTEREY
August 23rd
YOU touch at. weird Fiji . . . lovely Samoa and fas-
cinating Hawaii. . . . You dine on famously good
foods . . . speed the hours away with dancing . . .
swimming . . . talkies ... and ship sports of every
kind. On a direct schedule you can be in England from
Sydney in 2 8 days.
11 1 In Cabin Glass, as well as First Class, every'
stateroom has individual beds and telephone. Cabin Class
includes a lounge of spacious charm . . dining salon
... smoking room . . . and broad decks for outdoor ship
life, accommodations unprecedented in low cost travel.
1 r r In America awaits an.infinite variety of attrac-
tions—Hollywood . . . the skyscrapers of Chicago . . .
the stupendous climax at New York!
1 i i Through transportation to any point in England
or America can be arranged. Sailing on the "Mariposa”
or "Monterey” involves :no increase-in fares. May we
give you full particulars?
FARES Sydney to Los Angeles
First Class from £73 Cabin Class from £5O/i 0
Melbourne to Los Angeles
First Class from £75 Cabin Class from £52/10
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. 'Phone: B 7981-3
Agents: DALGETY & Company Limited
341 Collins St. and 461 Bourke St., Melbourne
'Phone: Central 288 (5 Lines) M7-2A
Janetza.
"WEEROONA" SUPPUIES ANOTHER VIVED PICTURE OF FACTORY LIFE.
IF Janetza, the foreign woman who worked
at Gibaud’s and looked so like a Lascat,
had worn a Lascar’s blue “slacks” and
had sat on a staging, scraping barnacles from
a steamer’s rusty side, she would have seemed
in her rightful place. Yet, in spite of her
sea-going look, the only vessel of her
acquaintance was the big liner that had car-
ried her from Europe’s turbulent heart and
dumped her at Victoria Dock. The natural
sequence to that landiiig-place was a job,
sorting rags, at Gibaud’s Hock mill. Here
it was part of her work to feed a machine,
known in the factory as .the rag-tearer, which
meant for her the.climbing of an iron ladder
to a railed platform. Alongside was the
head of the machine.. Swinging in a half-
circle, this was like some hungry • monster
incessantly opening funnel-shaped jaws, into
which Janetza would thrust rags with an
iron fork. This . done, - spiky' teeth would
tear and chew the offering into rag mince-
meat, until, with a shudder ; and a rattle, as
though .in the throes; of a bilious attack,
the machine would’,turn again. on its pivot'
cast . the mouthful into, waiting bags, and
come back to r Janetza: for more.
It was revolting w'ork. : But. Janetza’s
mind, centred on the Thursdays, of the: calen-
dar —which meant her, pay: envelope—was
indifferent to much around her. For one
thing, the contempt of the other rag-sorters,
to whom she was not only “a pommy” but
“a Dago pommy” ; and what, they argued,
could be less class than that ?
Janetza was not, however, indifferent to
Miss Mills, the forewoman. This gnat she
hated with an intensity of hatred only to be
found among the down-trodden of despots.
And when Miss Mills would herself climb
the ladder, and poke her suspicious face
close to the iron monster’s mouth, doubt-
ing that it was sufficiently fed, Janetza’s
furtive eyes would rest upon those elevated
silk-clad ankles, and her hands would twitch
with the desire to grab them and thrust
their owner into the jaws of the machine
itself.
Miss Mills was too complacent to observe
the malevolence she inspired, or she would
have leapt screaming for safety. In any
case, how could she know of ’the hates,
natural and racial, that had fermented in
flie very mother’s milk that had nourished
the foreigner, making her half-crazed? Who,
indeed, of the Miss Mills type would have
thought the creature, capable of hating, clod
that she was, doing foul work for the mini-
mum wage? Why, she did not know that
under the wage rate she could claim more
money! Nor was Miss Mills fool enough
to tell her. She was making the rag-sorting
room pay, and, as matters stood, might rea-
sonably demand more money herself before
long.
So', besides being fired on pay-day,
Janetza's brain brooded on the scheme for
putting an end to Miss Mills. There was no
doubt iu her mind that the moment would
come : she would be ready to spring, there
would be screaming, feet would come run-
ning. the boss would roll in, his cigar loll-
ing from lips agape with horror, the power
would be cut off and the machinery would
stop.. But not soon enough. Meanwhile the
remains of the forewoman
There was one other interest, too, less
tragic than life-taking, that gave some color
to Janetza's work, and this was the chance
of an illicit “find” —a “find” being, in trade
slang, the discovery of something valuable
among the mounds of rags and rubbish. Tales
had been told of five-pound notes and
diamond rings having been disinterred from
the unsavory heaps. And with some truth
perhaps, for once, in the pocket of a dis-
carded motor-coat there had been a little
bronze Mercury, with wings outspread.
Janetza would have adopted this as a patron
saint only that Miss Mills had confiscated it.
saying, “I’m your forelady—see! So don’t
let me catch th’ like o’ yotis • getting away
with ‘finds,’ or I’ll tell th’ boss —see —and
yous'll find yourse’f in court quick an’
lively—see I’ 1 ’
In courtf Like a lead sinker Janetza’s
heart had dropped. In court! One steo
more and it would be gaol. And what would
become of her mother and her father if she
and her pay-slip failed them! They would
be put in an institution. The Chinese who
doctored them had told her this, and he,
being a learned as well as a gifted man,
knew the laws of his adopted country.
Janetza’s blood had chilled. No, she must
not risk the institution ; for, if that hap-
pened. the old people might put a curse on
herself. Such had been done, back iu her
native mountains, and the accursed had
fallen into ravines, or had been torn with
the tusks of wild boars. So it seemed that,
Avhile her parents drew Ijreath, she must earn
and take no risks. Consequently the lace
handkerchief and the scrap of green ribbon
hidden away behind the bags lay there till
the rats ate them, though the instinct for
“finds” remained as strong as ever.
Thus did Janetza give unwilling obedience
to those parents whom disease had made hor-
rible. The father was enormous. He shook
like a jelly. His clothes would not meet,
his shoes could not be laced. Janetza would
dress his shapeless bulk each morning and
support him to the sofa, on to which he
would flop like a huge moaning jellyfish.
The mother did not rise at all, being nothing
but a skeleton controlled by a mind. Un-
grateful, with the ill-tempers of misery and
ignorance, they had for Janetza no merev,
while yet using their authority as a weapon.
To the scarecrow on the bed this middle-aged
daughter was still a child to be rebuked, and,
if strength had allowed, physically punished.
Indifferently, Janetza wished them dead.
With every bottle of medicine paid for bv
iier earnings Ah Wong, the Chinese
“specialist,” would predict certain cure.
“By-’n’-bye,” he would assure, “Mamma
walk. Bappa”—and here lie would gaze in-
scrutably at the quivering bulk on the sofa—
“veree sick man now, but, by-’n’-bye,. he
better,” adding with masterly mendacity,
“By-’n’-bye he world” ■ , .
Then one day came a halt in Janetza's
routine, for the expected actually happened.
She found something— something , the beauty
of which was to release her banked-up emu-
tions as surely as ever key unlocked a prison
door.
She had been pulling things from a tightly-
packed bag that day, and there, among the
interlacing rubbish, had felt something hard.
On the instant she was awake to a "find,”
of what value had yet to be proved. Had
the forewoman been near at the psychological
moment fear would have kept the rag-sorter
honest. But, as it was, and on the spur, of
me moment, Janetza forgot: all warning and
pushed the find (which was already concealed
in a piece of canvas) behind some sacks
that had contained raw wool, and which, she
knew, would not be disturbed for days. !0
Ingenuity was needed in working the find
out of Gibaud’s, for Miss Mills was, watch-
ful, and outgoing.lunch-cases were, by order,
open to inspection. But eventually came the
• ecstatic moment .when,': in. the locked, seclu-
sion of Janetza’s kitchen, the' prize was taken
from. its wrappings. A statuette it was, of
a clinging woman, at sight,of which Janetza
caught her breath,, amazed at such loveliness.
It was indeed a tantalising. thing—-an ex-
quisite specimen of art-craft. Wliat-had been
in the artist’s .mind when' fashioning it
could only be guessed. , Quite possibly he had
tried to give an-unorthodox version of an
old belief —that, of the repentant sinner cling-
ing for salvation ■' to the. .Cross ; a kind of
allegory. Yet, : -strictly spe'aking, here was
neither cross nor yet repentant sinner. There
was, instead, a‘ slender shaft rising' from a
rounded base. In color, a lovely blue that
melted into bines'more, lovely, still—fathom-
less blues that held and drowned the gaze :
blues that went deeper and deeper. And
round this soaring shaft were flung the rose-
white arms of a woman whose breast and
limbs crouched w-ith intensity, so close —as in
an effort to escape—that one instinctively
expected to witness her vanishment into the
blue. But it. was the face, the face, that
caught at the imagination most. Turned
back, over one round shoulder, it was that
perhaps of a temptress. The lips were parted
in invitation, the strange eyes’ held secrets
forbidden. There seemed something with-
drawn in that moulded gaze, yet abandon-
ment and longing also, as though the woman,
even while clinging desperately to salvation;
was just as desperately holding on to sin.
It was a strange thing. A conception of
contradictions. Was the .woman a temptress
or the tempted? Was she for the spirit or
for the i,flesh? This ,wffs 'the -puzzle' .left
for the onlooker to unravel. Janetza knelt
before it spellbound. Never could; she have
imagined such pure perfection.
Suddenly she wept, thus paying highest
tribute to beauty.
It may have been that, far back in primal
days, this ugly rag-sorter of Gibaud’s had
been a dryad, dancing through the greens
and rosy dawns of the young world, hand
m hand with Beauty itself. How otherwise
should so dark a soul break its bonds in
such a passion as hers did now—a passion
for beauty regained?
With reverent hands the statuette—or
•the lady,” as Janetza thought of it—was
placed upon the dark dresser. Wonderful!
Immaculate! Its imprisoned blues and
rose-whites seemed to palpitate ; the inviting
bps of the clinging figure to tremble in a
mysterious kiss. And those secret eyes—
what was it these withheld?
Life was npw worth living for Janetza.
ohe was bewitched, for her Cara Signora
dominated her entirely. She was both its
owner and its slave; her whole being was
expended in its worship. At times it was
sacred, holy ; in her other moods the figure
played upon her as a bow upon a violin
string. She held the belief that her worsh I-1
had kindled it to life, that the lips smiled,
that soon the eyes would tell their secret;
Placed there, the first break of day warmed
it to wakefulness; the darkness could not
hide the phantom-like delicacy of its pallor.
Her Signora, her wonderful Signora. Her
Signora gave her visions of Him drooping
upon the Cross, of Mary weeping. Visions
of love, of life’s fulfilment, covered her with
enchantment, filled he r with strange excite-
ments. Her Signora! Her Signora invited
her back along the seons of Time, back to
beauty, back to the beginning of things.
By day, and fearing prying eyes. Janetza
hid this imperishable beauty behind a loose
board of the dresser; by night she lit before
it a little candle, as she would a taper before
a slirine.
Meanwhile her scheme for the forewoman’s
annihilation receded to nothing, for all the
daily routine had become as
nothing. The general opinion at the mill
was that the Dago pommy” was growing
more ‘ nutty every day.
Then, something occurred of considerable
public interest.
A valuable curio had been stolen from an
antiquarian collection which had been
auctioned. Hie loss was widely advertised
and a big reward offered. At Gibaud’s, last
place on earth to look for Art in any form,
there was none flic less much surmise and
conjecture about the curio, owing to a sug-
gestion that it might have been hastily
concealed by the thief in a wardrobe, and as
Gibaud often bought the contents of these
he was asked to watch out. Gibaud went
further and offered a supplementary reward,
knowing himself safe in doing so •' for who
among- his employees would be fool enough to
have concealed so valuable a thing and, in
face of inquiry, to hold it?
All this commotion and comment passed
the abstracted and exalted Janetza by. She
could not read, and so missed the advertise-
ments,. and, being considered such an out-
sider in the mill, no one spoke with her on
current topics. Thus she remained com-
pletely in the dark. Even when the bag-
sewer who was an immigrant from the
English potteries, casually remarked that a
curio must be a nice “piece” to be worth
so much, it conveyed no meaning. A nice
piece? Was he referring to the mill girls,
each, of whom she knew- was a “piece”, or a
tart” or a •’sweetie,” and quite possibly a
curio. So Janetza offered no comment be-
yond a click of the teeth at the Australian
idiom, and, unable to absorb common gossip,
was left in a false, security—until that visit-
ing day when Ah Wong’s car had a break-
down. This had resulted in his calling on
the bedridden parents in, the upstairs room
at the unprofessional horn; of .'dusk.
He entered without ceremony, and Jan-
etza, surprised at . her devotions before the
statuette, had just time to slip the treasure
into its hiding-place and put out the candle.
But the fumes of this homely incense lin-
gered, and the face of the priestess was
apprehensive, facts obvious to the Chinese;,
who was not lacking in the detective sense.
He was curious. Had this woman money
hidden away—money that he should have?
He promptly sounded the suspect. Could
' Janetza not afford the new serum of which
, lie had spoken, lie asked, and which would
save her father’s life? Had she no money-
nothing that co'uld sell for money?
Janetza assured him she had neither, the
1 while mad laughter frolicked in her throat at
the thought of selling—what? Her Cara
Signora, perhaps ! Part with her —for the
old people’s sake? No! Not if the price
would buy a bottled miracle from Ah Wong.
Let them die, if die they must —even though
.they;should put a curse cn her!
Ah - Wong was far from satisfied. Next
day his curiosity had become so insistent
; that; leaving a waiting-room filled to every
chair, he paid an extra call-at Janetza’s
< home, • knowing, of course, that she would
. be absent at. work. ;
It was an • easy, matter to hoodwink the
invalids, and just as easy to pick the kitchen
lock,- and also to-find the'loose board in the
dresser behind, which gleamed the curio. The
stolen curio ! Ah Wong instantly recognised
: the statuette, for he was a collector himself,
and the • advertised loss of the antique and
the proffered reward had interested him
immensely.
Here— the missing curio? The celestial
exulted, to think' it was here —here —in this
den—at the mercy of an ignorant foreigner
who scarce understood the mongrel English
he employed for her benefit, let alone his
own ancient tongue ; a foreigner one would
naturally spurn with the toe of the silk
slipper donned in tile , privacy of one’s apart-
ment. The stolen curio.—here!
When Janetza next slipped back the loose
board there was no Signora to greet her.
Nothing! Nothing, but the little candle,
bent' double in its candlestick !
•1= * * *
She was feeding the iron monster, while
the forewoman, her mean face pale with
spite, stood over her on the ladder.
“An’ don’t you fork up any gold or silver
out o’ that bin,” she nagged, “an’ don’t you
get away with another o’ them finds o’ yours,
neither —see! A nice sort o’ woman you
are. Only for your pore ole mother you’d
have been in Pentridge by now. A nice sort,
letting rewards go out o’ the country—to
blessed Chinee doctors, ’stead o’ handing
finds over to your forelady. You— why, you
couldn’t keep even th’ curio when you did
have it. You’re a fool —see!—-a fool!”
Janetza turned, her face convulsed with
her old hate of the tyrant above her. This
and the madness that had grown apace in
her brain since the awful, unexplainable loss
of Cara Signora now fused—the moment for
vengeance had come.
There was a lunge, and a panther-like
spring. Those trim ankles were within her
grasp; and with the last nagging word
frozen on her tongue, the forewoman was
looking Death in the face.
But in her madness Janetza had overlooked
her victim’s chief weapon-—agility. Nimble
and lithe as a cat, and- with the strength
that terror can give, Miss Mills now flung
herself back. There was a struggle, a sick-
ening moment when the pair tottered on the
edge of the platform, and then—-the crash !
As Janetza had foreseen, there was com-
motion and screaming.- Feet did come, on
the run. The boss did roll in.
But Fate had provided her own climax.
“Better her than me, anyway,” declaimed
Miss Mills when recovered from the shock.
“But, mind you, it was touch an’ go which
of us ’d be underneath —an’ .that floor is
concrete. Nutty! You’ve said it. She was
that.: Went mad over login’ the reward for
that curio she stole —let a Chow doctor
double-cross ’or for the money. Yes, .she was
mad all right. But even if . she was, what
■I• ask's -is, Why did she pick on me?”


Wonderful Books for Every Man & Woman Posted Right to Your Door
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK
OF SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFF
COUNSEL”
Ky Prof. Jeffries, AI D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. E. Nichols, A M.;
i>r. Emma P. A. Drake, J 1.1)., Ph.D.; anti Zora 8.
Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your door for £l.
Must every woman pay the price of a moment's happi-
ness in bitter tears and years of regret?- .Must millions
of homes be ruined- - lovers .and sweethearts driven apart—
marriages totter to the brink of divorce —the" sacred joys
of sex relations he denied? YES—just as long as men and
women remain Ignorant of the simple facts of life.
An Enpaidonable Sin is total ignorance of the most im-
portant subject in the life of every man and woman—SEX.
Away with False Modesty.
Let us face the facts of sex fearlessly and frankly,
sincerely and scientifically.. Let us tear the veil of shame
and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on
a new knowledge of all the facts of sex as they are. laid
bare in plain, daring hut wholesome words and frank pic-
tures in this huge new library of Sex Knowledge—“SAFE
COUNSEL/’ •
512 Pages of SECRETS
For Men and Women—Over 100 Illustrations.
EVERYTHING A
MARRIED WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
How to preserve youth—Warding off other women—
Keeping yourself 'attractive —Why husbands tire of
wives—Dreadful diseases due to ignorance—Diseases
of women—Diseases of children—-Family Health
guide—Change of life; hygiene—Why children die
young—lnherited traits and diseases—-What will you
tell your growing girl?—Hundreds of valuable reme-
dies.
Secrets for Men
M’stakes of early marriages—Secrets of fascination —
How to make women love you—Bringing up healthy
children—Nursing and weaning—Fevers and contagi-
ous diseases-—Accidents and emergencies—Hygiene
in the home—How to care for invalids—Limitation
of offspring—Warning to young men—Dangerous
diseases—-Hygienic precautions—Anatomy and physi-
ology-—The reproductive organs—Education of the
family.
Girls, Don’t Marry Before You Know This.
Beauty diets and baths—Do you know: How to attract
desirable men?—How to manage men?-:—How to know
if he loves you ? How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty?—How to beautify face, hands, hair, teeth and
feet?—How to acquire charm—How to dress attract-
ively Intimate personal hygiene?—How to pick a
husband ?
Send £1 for a Copy of “Safe Counsel” To-day.
Use this form, or if averse to cutting the paper, mention
The Bi lletjx when writing’.
Enclosed please find £1 (one pound), for which please
send me one copy “Safe Counsel" by return mail.
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Rank Note,
Name )
Address ■
Sins of Society.
It is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil of mystery
that has so universally, shrouded this subject of the penalty
of sexual immorality. It is a plea for light on this hidden
danger, that fathers and mothers, young men and young
women may know the terrible price that must be paid,
not only by the generation that violates the law, but by
the generations to come.
Price 2/6. We pay postage. \
Practical Birth Control. Best and Authentic, 2/-
ş
( -
11
iN THE ABSENCE OF THE
COMMITTEE CHAI RN* AN,
WILL ASK FOR A REPORT FROM
BROTHER OF TKSE COMMITTEE - i
M
i.we V
ess
/v*
SLOAN / J
. . # , 11
Ycu re sitting back at peace with the world-
-AND—-suddenly the chairman
ter.
&
EfS-IM MOT MUCH OFM
SPEAKFR *<CUtP) -l OOMf
KNOW JUST WHAT TO SAY-
rtft.CIARK CAN TELL YOU
MORE THAN I CAN 'THAT
If AU I HAVE TO SAY NOW
ER'CtuuOZ/iP
W'
1
ME
!rVT_
You grope for words and live a lifetime of misery crowded into five minutes!
Whe n Will THis Happen to You?
If you were suddenly asked to address a group of men, how would you act? Would you
be master of the situation? Your manner—would it be confident, well-poised, dominating?
Could you cause a hushed silence and sway your audience at will? Face the situation
now before it faces you! Send for amazing book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts.
and Toasts for All Occasions”
WEDDING TOASTS (See. s).—'The Bride and Bridegroom. Response o'f the Bridegroom. Response to the Bridesmaids.
The Groomsmen. Response. Bride and Bridegroom. Response and Toast of Bridesmaids. Response to Bridesmaids.
The Groomsmen. Response to Groomsmen. Bride and Bridegroom (Soldier). . Response of Bridegroom.
Response of Best. Man (Soldier's Wedding). The- Groomsmen .(Soldier's Wedding). Response .<Soldier's Wedding).
Parents of Newly-Wedded Pair. Bride's Parents. Response to Bride’s Parents. Anniversary of Wedding Day.
Response. Silver Wedding. Response. Golden Wedding. Response.
BIRTHDAY TOASTS (Sec. (i).—Birthday Party. Response. Coming-of-age of Young Man. Response. Daughter s
Cottting-of-age. Christening Party. Response by Father. Response by Godfather. Response by Grandfather.
BUSINESS TOASTS (See. 10).—Speech at Association Dinner. Response by Secretary. Firm Manager’s Health.
Manager’s Reply. Director Proposing Manager's Health. Farewell Gathering. Health of Guest. The Town and
Trade of -. Response by Leading Merchant.
MISCELLANEOUS (Sec. 11).—Opening a Bazaar. Opening an Agricultural Show. A New Railway Dine. Re pip by
Promoter. Making a Presentation. Reply. Laying a Foundation-stone. Speech by Layer of Stone. Absent
Friends. The Press. Response. The Ladies. Response by Bachelor. Reply by a Lady at a Mixed Assembly.
Fire Brigade. Speech by Leading (Mtizon at Annual Gathering. Response, by Captain. The Medical Profession.
• Send-off to a Soldier. Reply. Speech to Welcome Returned Soldier. Reply at Welcome Home.
Price only 3/6. We Pay Postage.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Glyn
Elinor Glyn, famous author of “Three Weeks,” has written an amazing book that should be read by
every man and woman —married or single. “Elinor Glyn on Love” is not a novel—it is a penetrating
searchlight fearlessly turned on the most intimate relations of men and women.
Love’s Vital Problems Solved.
In “Ivove,"’ Klinor Glyn courageously solves the most
vital problems of love and marriage. She place a magni-
fying,-glass unflinchingly on the relations of men and
women. No detail, no matter how avoided by others, is
spared. She warns you gravely, she suggests wisely,
she explains fully.
“love” is one of the frankest hooks ever written. It
had to be. A book of this type, to be of real value,
could not mince words. Every problem had to he faced
with utter honesty, deep sincerity and resolute courage.
But Elinor Glyn caljs a spade a spade—while she deals
with strong emotions and passions in her frank, fearless
manner—she nevertheless handles her subject so ten-
derly and sacredly that the book can safely be read by
any man or woman
In fact, anyone over eighteen should he COMPELLED
to read “Jiove”; for. while ignorance may sometimes
he bliss, it is folly of the most dangerous sort to be
ignorant of the problems of love and marriage. As one
mother wrote us: “1 wish 1 had read this book when
I was a young girl—it would have saved me a lot of
misery and Suffering.’'
Get “Love” To-day.
Send a 3/6 Postal Note to the Bondon Book Co., Ltd.,
Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, and you will not. only receive
a copy of “I.ove” by return mail; but a copy also of
Health and Beauty Secrets
Please mention “The Bulletin” when ordering.
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
š
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
All orders sent by Return Mail.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Send postal notes or
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from - -
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS <
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas— l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months. 15/6, 3 months, 8/-
ſ
ß
t o’
AC e
>' r eP
.o' l '-' 1 ’
av-
.•■ <i*o Vt/
V l^'


«• ra3 tT B AV 3 ! uu H°r ffP
sjfeMje noX si ji XifM aui nai „
m
■ V
. k i *. i
■
‘.v’i
■
7
mm
IllS
'. in
:
Hi
:
i m
: 8
m ■
.
zmmmm
: j.v ; ;
■ : . . s :
::. f \ "
|§ pMaMli
wCMfl
HiiMil ii ISli
ihh
Hi®»
> ; - : >' '777-:,;
«]UOTHING could be easier,
old chap. Here’s the answer
—a drop of Johnnie Walker neat
f . .don’t toss it down —just sip
it quietly—let it play about your
palate.”
“Are you serious?”
“Certainly. By that means you
will get the full appreciation of
the old Highland malt it contains
«. £ . . .do you notice the smoothness
of it? No bite in that whisky, is
there?”
“There is not, definitely!”
“Well, that’s because it has those
rare old Highland malts in it.”
“I say, you’re a good judge of
whisky.”
“Oh, only one of many thousands
that go to make Johnnie Walker
the most popular whisky in the
world.”
0
In full size and half
bottles. Also con-
cave flasks, handy
for the hip—l3oz.
and 6oz.
Bottled in Bond
under Government
supervision. That’s
your guarantee of
genuineness.
JOHNNIE WALKER
SCOTCH WHISKY
Born 1820 —Still Going Strong >
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON AND KILMARNOCI
